Foui)aed ·at. Union College 1877 Nott Memorial,· Ur •• on's 1:6.-sided wonder. Field ,.,ockey Disqual.ifi,ed: · .. , Schenectady, New York Thursday, Nov. 1, 1979 Nott Celebrates: Centennial Plus One by PAUL FEINSOT In November of 1878, a monument that was to become the central structure of a · college carnp_us and a memorial to its most distinguished President, was completed. It is startling to consider that we have passed the centennial anniversary of the Nott Memorial's completion without any sort of recognition of this ·:event. Concordiensis wishes to pay tribute to '~he sentimental icon of the campus\ by giving a brief history of the building. Most of the information is ex- ·-cerpted directly from the report released in 1973 by Mendel, Mesick and Cohen, Architects, titled The Nott Memorial: A Historic Structqre Report. The study, which was paid for, in part, with $10;000 ap- propriated by the Alumni Council, is already a collector's it~m (by virtue of a limited printing). It begins: One hundred and sixty years ago this summer (1973, i.e., 1813) an epochal dre-am assumed visible form on Nistquonta Hill above the old Dutch settlement of Schenec- tady. A French architect, heir to the revolution in human thought that·had occurredain the last decades of the eighteenth century, and a Presbyterian minister turned college president, intent upon realizing the impact of that revolution in the education of .a new nation's youth, conceived a new campus .. for Union College. The resulting plan would amplify the spirit -of the time, of that place, of their individual visions. The French architect Joseph Ramee and Union's third President Eliphalet Nott shared a concept fot what was to become America's first planned college campus. The plan was extracted from the context of European architectural thoght, and consequently what Ramee and Nott composed was a desigp reflecting the experience of .the past thirty years in progressive French ar- chitectural practice: Architects had turned from the Women Suffer Harshest Setback . excesses and deceits of Baroque des~gn toward a mode that was at once simple, grand, and yet expressive of the intended building purpose. Function was suggested by form rather than decoration. Sphere, cylindet·, pyramid, cube--an austere vocabulary for buildings-were ordered on extended plane~ in imagined spaces remote from urban reality. by BARB PLOTKIN 'It shoul~ never have hap.; pened. The Women's F-ield Hockey te~m was disq•Jalified from the New York State tournament last weekend because of a clerical error. . At the beginning of the season, the team roster was sent in to the AIAW, the in- tercollegiate organization for women's athletics. Due to an· oversight, a player's name did not appear on one of the four copies of the roster. When the UCollteam made the state meet they were required to submit another roster of the players that were entering the state tournament. Sin~e this roster did not agree with the 'missing name' roster, a meeting was called by Lee Rhemish, the eligibility cbaimersm1 of the AlA W. Though Ms. Rhemish gave the team her support, this discrepancy led to the disqualification of the field hockey team from the tour- nament. Every game that the ~missing nam,e' player par- ticipated in was ruled illegal even though she met all eligibility requirements. Therefore the t~am's winning record of 8-l·l was no longer valid according to the com- mittee. Because of the rules presented in 'tf\e AIAW hand; book, the decision had to be made. Unfortunately, the handbook for this year has not even been released. The rules are constantly in a state of flux .. ·A state meeting w.as heln last spring to go over the rules and regulations. Though Coach Morrison could not attend, due to lacrosse scheduling, a woman coach who did attendthe 'meeting ,informed Ms. -Morrison that she didn't remember the All-College Senate .Me.ets: harsh penalty being discussed. Union is not the only institution to have suffered from a clerical error. Last year Hamilton College could not enter their swim team into the ~purnament for the same reason. The clerical' error has af- fected so many teams that a modification of the AlA W rulebook is warranted. Under the NCAA rules that govern men's intercollegiate athletics, the team w.ould have been fined and the teammate whose name did not appear on the roster would have been disqualified. However, the team would still have been eligible for the state -tournament. According to Richard Sakala, Director of Athletics at Union, the reason that the women's teams are not run under the $ame guidelines as men's sports is because the NCAA would not recognize the growth of Calendar Discussed On October 25th, the All- College Senate convened for its next to last scheduled meeting. The proposed new College Governance System, which is supposed to take effect in early January, replaces the present All-College and the College Senate Committee Structure with two policy councils, ·a faculty review board, two consultation groups and three liason committees. The only item on -the Senate agenda was a proposal to establish an ad hoc committee \to consider abandoning the three term 'trimester' system in favor of a 4-4, 4-1-4, or other system with due investigation . \ Faculty members from the Hmnanities Division sponsored the proposal. Although the proposal was only to establish a committee, the discussion . gravitated towards the substance of the issue that the proposed ~OJll­ mittee was- to investigate: whether or not the Collee:e should abandon the trimester system. After thirty minutes of discussion and an unsuccessful atte~pt to table the proposal, the proposal was defeated by a vote of 6-12. ~ Following the only agenda item, a student senator proposed a resolution ·\requesting the administration to report back to the All-College Senate before its next scheduled meeting {November 20th) with a preliminary report- con- cerning the possibility of ad- justing the 198C).i81 trimester calendar.\ The PROPOSED adjustment would change the academic calendar such that: FALL TERM would begin shortly after Labor Day and end before Thanksgivipg; WINTER TERM. would begin after a nine day Thanksgiving recess and would be interrupted after the third or fourth week by the Christmas recess; and the remainder of the academic year would be adjusted such that SPRING TERM finals ended before memorial Day. See Student Survey, page 2. Once again, the discussion gravitated towards the sub- stance of the issue. Both faculty members. and students pointed out some of the advantages and disadvantages of such a proposed calendar cbange. Presently, the All-College Senate is composed of fomteen faculty members, ten students and three administrators. When the resolution was' called to a votet the motion tied 7-7, with four abstentions. President Morris broke the tie by voting in favor of the resolution. The President said that siiice the ..resolution only called for a :prelilllirtary report, it would be better to continue rather than cut off discussion of the issue. women's sports in the country. Therefore tbe women coaches had t.o form their ow.n organization ,.and .adopt their own guidelines. The AIA W still being relatively young, is constantly changing these rules as its growth continues. Ms. ; Morrison will attend the state meeting this spring to insure that no other team has to bear the brunt of such a strong penalty again. Mr. Sakala summed up the consensus of the coaches involved in_ the tour- nament as well as throughout the state by commenting that it was!!__' 'tragedy to have the fine team penalized.\ Several coaches were not only upset by the Union incident but how the tournament was run as well. Because of various cir- cumstances, another team did Continued on page 11 ' . 'a Prior to Ramee's visit, Union had been located in the center of the city of Schenectady, in \Stone College.\ This single building ''lodged president, faculty, students, together with commons and classrooms. Attendant upon the urban location were the usua·l problems .of town versus gown.\ Ground was broken for the new campus late in ,1812: · The site was leveled to create the extended terrace so characteristic of projects by I.edoliX and Boulee. Upon tbis Continued on page 6 James Doohan of Star Trek fame Will appear on Tuesday, Novemb.~r 6 at 8:30p.m. in Memorial Chapel. His program en_tltled Star Trekking with Scotty\ contains his ideas on the ong.in of the show, what it means and what its place is in contemporary American society . .A Star Trek episode and \blooper\ reel are Included..

. , Page 2· CONOORDIENSIS, Nouembe.r 1, 1919 Editorial Historical Neglect It has come to the attention of Ooncordiensis that November of 1979 will mark the beginning of the 101st anniversary year of the completion of the Nott Memorial. Thus, it would seem, the·centennial year of the structure which is the very architectural syntbol of Union College has passed by unnoticed to the college community. WhUe this may seem to be a careless oversight on our part, it is really consistent with the prevailing attitude towards the structure. Why should we, after all, bother to notice the an- niversary ofa memorial which we have cared so little about· in the past as to allow it to fall into such a desperate state of disrepair? Union College is a college which is steeped in tradition and history. Our architectural endowment of beautiful old buildings is one of the proudest boasts of the college's history that we have to make. How long can a school which prides itself on tradition neglect its own history and 'Mtll retain that .pride? The neglect of the Nott, a building which is both geographically and symbolically central to the college, would seem to suggest that we value that history little and value that pride even less .. In 1-973, the college, in a demonstration of concern over the worsening condition of ·the Nott Memorial, spent $10,000 to have compiled a report on its struc- ture, condition, and the cost of renovation (see the article on the Nott in this issue). Now, while that report g(rthers dust on the library shelf, the Nott gathers pigeon· droppings. WhUe the college' .a. ·ad- ministration seems to perch on its hands, pigeons perch in the niches of the Nott Memorial. The college celebrated the 78th anniversary of historic Washburn Hall in 1963 with a ·real· bang, as they demolished the building. we should be thankful that the Nott received no recognition on its tooth anniversary, if the alternative wa~ a party 1n the style of the one held for Washburn just 16 years ago. Concordy Elections Elections for the position of Editor in Chief will be held on Tues. evening, Nov. 13 at 8 p.m. in the Concordiensis office. Candidates must submit their names to Mrs. Marra in the Student Ac- tivities office by Tues. Nov. 6. Qlonror News Editor Features Editors Layout Editors 'i:IV1•'1't!l Editor Editor tAs~liStantMen's Sports Editor •w\'..n\''\''\Sports Editor Business Manager Subscriptions CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student· body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New · 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432~737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. SUIJiscrtpti!m 1 1 rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered $1nlrwh1ere Trimester Surveyed Students do not dislike the · three-term (trimester) system enough to want the College to change back! to either a 4-4 or a 4-1-4 course load system. This conclusion is based on a survey- questionnaire of 600 randomly selected students on the evening of Oct. 24. While the survey w.as. not intended to give the students a 'choice' between various course load systems (primarily because most students have not had the comparative ex- perience of ~erent systems}, thesurveydid show that a great majority of students are satisfied with the current trimester system. An unex- pected by-product of the survey, however, was a sense that students would like to see the academic year start earlier and end earlier. Of the 441 respondants, 64.8 percent were satisfied with the present trimester system, 21.5 percent preferred to change to either a 4-4 or 4-1-4 ~ystem, while 13.7 percent were unsure. However, three fifths of the 137 respondents who took the time to write intelligent \additional conunents\ were in favor of both starting an.d ending the academic year earlier. Thes~ comments came from those who were for, against, and. unsure about the trimester system. Many feel that Union's present academic · calendar diminishes their sununer job opportunities, creates in- conveniences in planning Continued on page, 10 - Co· - In· morn 27' ' hand] one • doors Colle colle repai Monc Tues daiill some Hags Ando Dean residt loeat tranc a.m. 1 sht:tttc outsic the v~ quick behin a l()t < until I both< risk. Thi: yef a An dol kini:l which camp f'hair~ aboun An dol no c~ tentio: it.'' Wht dalize ''at a so mel whc;>d: to 'fin least t bet WE shouk studer why tl made The only o proble the .pi misbe. at Uiii seem1 in it~ Alcohc relate~ and tl nation elsewl The Jl b~ Son: of th Fa<;ul pamp mailbl entitl, CautiCJ Th~ p was staten and w the ofJ be inf fense< of the pamp many them. summ those: Plag writteJ of tak witho1 source delibei naive forma1 stu den fault i~ and tt \The plagiaJ mayrE

Page 2 · CONCORDIENSIS, November 1, 19\19 Editorial Historical Neglect It has come to the attention of Ooncordiensis that November of 1979 will mark the beginning of the 101st anniversary year of the completion of the Nott Memorial. Thus, it would seem, the centennial year of the structure which is the ve~ry architectural symbol of Union College has passed by unnoticed to the college community. While this may seem to be a careless oversight on our part, it is really consistent with the prevailing attitude towards the structure. Why should we, after all, bother to notice the an- niversary of a memorial which we have cared so little about· in the past as to allow it to fall into such a desperate state of disrepair? Union College is a college which is steeped in tradition and history. Our architectural endowment of beautiful old buildings is one of the proudest boasts of the college's history that we have to make. How long can a school which prides itself on tradition neglect its own history and still retain that pride? The neglect of the N ott, a building which is both geographically and symbolically central to the college, would seem to suggest that we value that history little and value that pride even less. In 1973, the college, in a demonstration of concern over the worsening condition of the Nott Memorial, spent $10,000 to have compiled a report on its struc- ture, condition, and the cost of renovation (see the article on the Nott in this issue). Now, while that report gathers dust on the library shelf, the Nott gathers pigeon droppings. While the college's ad- ministration seems to perch on its hands, pigeons perch in the niches of the Nott Memorial. The college celebrated the 78th anniversary of historic Washburn Hallin 1963 with a real· bang, as they demolished the building. We should be thankful that the Nott received no recognition on its 100th anniversary, if the alternative was a party in the style of the one held for Washburn just 16 years ago. Concordy Elections Elections for the position of Editor in Chief will be held on Tues. evening, Nov. 13 at 8p.m. in the Concordiensis office. Candidates must submit their names to Mrs. Marra in the Student Ac- tivities office by Tues. Nov. 6. C!!nnrnr Editors-in-Chief News Editor ............ ,.Editors Layout Editors Sports Editor Photo Editor Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons Paul Feinsot Donna Creeley Sue Barnhart Rachel Mandel Danny Wojnilower Mark Palomba Pat 1Assts1~t Men's Sports Editor WoJtneni's Sports Editor RichHope!l Barb Plo~ltinll Pat Wriuhtll ... nnrnEditor Editors Business Manager Subscriptions Steve Monosson, Cindy Aranoll~l Ellen Berger, Maria Mantred<•nilltl David Plantz, Jeff \'~cu&uc& Fran Teitel, Melissa Ellen Van Roberta MOSS I Mitchell Chess, Ellen Rubin, Gary l:illlmllierl Carole KellrUgl Scott Ellen Holtzman CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady. New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8¥.! Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the States. ~ Proud Feelings To the College Community: · Trimester Surveyed Students do not dislike the three-term (trimester) system enough to want the College to change back to either a 4-4 or a 4-1-4 course load system. This conclusion is based on a survey- questionnaire of 600 randomly selected students on the evening of Oct. 24. While the survey was not intended to give the students a 'choice' between various course load systems (primarily because most students have not had the comparative ex- perience of ~ferent systems), the survey did show that a great majority of students are satisfied with the current trimester system. An unex- pected by-product of the survey, however, was a sense that students would like to see the academic year start earlier and end earlier. Of the 441 respondants, 64.8 percent were satisfied with the present trimester system, 21.5 percent preferred to change to either a 4-4 or 4-1-4 system, while 13.7 percent were unsure. However, three fifths of the 137 respondents who took the time to write intelligent \additional comments\ were in favor of both starting an,d ending the academic year earlier. These comments eame from those who were for, against, and unsure about the trimester system. Many feel that Union's present academic calendar diminishes their summer job opportunities, creates in- conveniences in planning Continued on page 10 i l .j I l ' ' - Co1 - b In t morni 27, ' handl one c doors Colle rolle1 rep ail Mond Tues< dam a some flagsl Ando Dean reside !ocat1 trancE a.m.c shatte outsid the va quick behin< a lot o until r both a risk. This yet a1 Andoli kind which ramp1 Phairs aboun1 Andoli no ca tentior it.\ Whe dalize< \at a someb whodi to 'fin least tl bet we should stu den why U made The only or proble: the pr misbel at Uni1 seemt in its Alcoho relatec and th nation1 elsewh The Jl by Som of thl Facul pampl mail be entitlE Cautio The p1 was statem and wl the off, be inf1 fense d of the pampt many them. summ< those i Plag writter of taki withou source. deli her naive format studenl fault is and th \The ~ plagiar mayre

_ OONOORDfFlNfUS Novcm.b~r- 11 1.979. Page 3 Co·m,m.entary: Alcohol: A Chemical For MiscondUct ? by DOVG ROSENFELD In the pre~dawn hours of the morning on last Saturday, Oct. 27, vandals destroyed the handle, frame, and window of one of the front entranceway doors 011 the south end of West College dormitory. At the college's expense, a hired repairman fixed the door on Monday, Oct. 29, and by Tu~day morning, it was damaged again--this time, somebody had hurtled a flagstone through it. Mike Andolina, Union's Assistant Dean of students and th~ resident of the West apartment located next to - that en- tranceway door, awoke at 4: 15 a.rn. on Tuesday to the sound of shattering glass. When he went outside to check on the noise, the vandal or vandals involved quickly ran away, leaving behind a door which would cost a lot of money to fix anawhich, until repaired, would constitute both an eyesore and a security risk.· This incident of vandalism is yet: anothe-r example of what Andolina terms the \continuous kintl of piddling vandalism\ which is commonplace on this campus. ''Broken windl>WS, chairs, stolen furniture,\ all abound on campus, and -yet, Andolina puzzles, ''Lhave hc.J no cases br'Olfght to my at- tention. People seem to accept it.,, . . When somethi.ng is van- dalized or stolen, Andolina says, ''at a school of two thousand, somebody must know somebody · who did it. I'm not asking people to 'fink' on each other, but at least there should be a dialogue between students. Students should• 1 be·accouht-able· to other students for their actions ... that's · why the Conduct Committee is made up of students only.\ The problem of vandalism is only one facet of a still larger problem, Andolina perceives: the problem of alcohol-related misbehavior. According to him, at Union, \alcoholism does not seem to be the problem, at least in its traditional definition. Alcohol abuse and al-cohol- related behavior are a· problem, and this problem, which is a national phenomenoll, is worse elsewhere.\ ' The scope of the college - alcohol problem is indeed nationwide, as is evidenced by the growing amount of concern with it at regional and national college administrative con- ferences. Andolina and Dean of Students, Robert H. Kellett, attend-ed a conference held at Hartwick College, Oneonta, _ New York, on Oct. 24~ The conference, sponsored by the \Mean Deans of New York State,\ focused on the student conduct problem, and ad- dressed the issue of \The Judicial Process and Student . Development.\ Greg Chase, Union's Residence Life coor- dinator and Fraternity Adviser, will attend a statewide college conference entitled \Alcohol · Aware\ in Syracuse on Nov. 7 and8. Andolina outlined four areas of misconduct which may be induced _by the conswnption of alcohol: l) destruction of property; 2) hostile behavior; . 3) disruption of Union's en- vironment; an~ 4) disruption of the area outside of the college. 1. DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY: The destruction of proper!y through vandalism by drunken students leads to the physical deterioration of the campus. Not only does such wanton destruction precipitate a large repair bill forthe college and, ultimately (through the increases in tuition · .it may ·warrant). for the student, but it is instrumental in turning away prospective applicants who are displeased with..the appearance of the college. 2. HOSTILE BEHAVIOR: Too often, people use alcohol as an excuse to act with impunity in a beligerent manner towards a persQn they do not like. Such intimidation could not only result in injuries, but serves to open rifts amongst a student body which is toe small for such nonsense. 3. DISRUPTION OF UNION'S ENVIRONMENT: Although Andolina claims that there has not been much complaint over people making too much noise while drunk, and thus disrupting the worktime of others, potential for this· dif- ficulty always exists where there is alcohol. . 4. DISRUPTION OF THE AREA OUTSIDE OF _THE COLLEGE: Drunken students who ~hoose to perform their antics off-campus are not an attractive prospect for the residents in the community nearby. More to the point, there is no immunity from serious legal prosecution outside of Union's gates. \We've been lucky,\ said Andolina, \we haven't had any major problems occur, such as vandalism with serious injury.\ \The . people who are self- destructive or destructive are the problem, but there is nothing we can do if nobody brings charges against them.\ Andolina daes not wish to say that alcohol use should be banned on campus ;it should not be limited by the ad- ministration. \Students seem to need the outlet'' that alcohol conslUllption affords, Andolina went on to say, and there is nothing wrong with alcohol use when it is not. destructive. \You're not going to stop students from drinking nor should you,\ Andolina said, when referred to the recent move by the SUNY at Albany administration to limit student consumption of alcohol. What, ' -then, is our alternative cour::se of action? Andolina advises that, for a start at ·leal]lt, \students should start a self- examination af what they do when they get drunk.·~ If: students become more critical of their own and others' use ·-of alcohol~ we must 'be takin~ a step in the right direc,tian. There seems to be evidence to support the observation that · students are being more critical of their own behavior in cases. of vandalism at Union. Director of Housing, Dave Wood , claims that offending \students are turning themselves in . more than usual, particularly in West.\ Moreover, Wood insists that \common area damage is down this year as compared to last year.\ Wood admits thai it is dif· ficult to pinpoint the reasons for such a decline in dorrriitory vandalism. Attitudes, Wood feels, are improved this year, and he senses \a better mood, a better tone on campus,'' which . is due he thinks, at least in .part, to the fact that ''things this ye~r have gotten off to a very good Student Forum Meets: start.\ Also, Woods Cites \a lot of positive recreational programming in, the dorms.'' as a deterrent to vandalism, maintaining that satisfaction with dorm life promotes respect for the dorm environment. But this vandalism problem is still a major one on campus and in the dorms. According to Wood,. although ''we seem to have gotten over the false fire alarms\· which characterized last year, \the emptying of fire extinguishers is a real problem this year .. '' Such tampering with fire equipment both .angers and frustrates Wood , as it demonstrates \a flagrant disregard for other people in the building\ and yet is \so difficult to control.\ When asked about alcohol- related vandalism, W..norl responded that it is difficult to know exactly how much van- dalism is alcohol-related. He agreed, though, that alcohol use is the cause for much van- dalism, and said, resignedly, that while alcohol use \has not yet !)bOwed up in terms of . damages to residence halls, it will-just give it time.\ Academic Policy Discussed by ANDREW WISO:FF On Monday evening, the · Student Forum meUortwo and one halt hours. The major topics were College Governance and student activities. Once again, the Forum reviewed the most recent draft of the proposed College Governance System-including all \friendly amendments\ and each of the eighteen \unfriendly amen<h--nents.\ As planned, the Forum successfully completed its deliberations over each. unfriendly amendment before the General Faculty meeting Tuesday afternoon. · Approximately_ half of the two-hour governance discussion. focused on the Legislative Flow Chart for the Academic Affairs Council (AAC): · unfriendly amendment number nine; All . members were willing to accept the principle that the Student Government should have the power to call for an official reconsideration of AAC policy recommendations. However, the wording which had been submitted as the Forum's reflection or that principle was a source of contention among several Forum member~. Realizing that the original. and a 7-'i:J vote (with one ab- stention), the Forum decided to amend its own unfriendly · amendment nUmber seven by adding a fourth faculty member to the Standing of Students Sub- Council. Formerly, the amendment had specified only three faculty members, three students and three ad- ministrators. The current Standing of Students Conunittee contains four faculty members. Concerning unfriendly Illegitimate Uses • amendment was procedurally ineffective, Andy Mitchell, Mark Burnett, and Andrew Wisoff submitted additional amendments to repair the original amendment. After considerable debate, and ilo le.!)s that five votes on the particular wording involved, an agreeable compromise amendment was · arrived at. The wording is such that the Forwn has every · possible opportunity to call for a reconsideration or rejection of proposed academic policy. but the Forum cannot veto any academic policy. Also, the wording does not allow the Forwn to significantly slow down th~ legislative process. amendment number 16, which was the last unfriendly amendment which the Forum discussed, the Forum decided by a vote of 7-4 (with one ab- stention) to allow the faculty to add one additional faculty member . to the Planning and Priorities Liaison Group if they so desired. The Forum has already amended the P&P Group to add an aaditional student. -by ELLEN VAN DYKE Sometime near the beginning of the term the Dean of Fa<;ulty's Office placed a pamphlet in \all student mailboxes. The pamphlet was entitled Plagiarism, A Cautionary Word to Students. Th~ purpose of the pamphlet was to provide a blunt statement on what plagiarism is · and what the penalties are for the offense so that students will be informed that such an of- fense does exist. From the looks of the mailroom the day the pamphlets were di-stributed; many students did not read them. The following is a brief summary of the pamphlet for those interested. Plagiarism is the copying of written material with the intent · of taking credit for the work without acknowledging the source. It can either be done deliberately or be due to a semi- naive lack of_ footnoting in.: formation on the part of the student. But, in either case, the fault is entirely with the student and the penalties are severe. \The student found guilty of - plagiarism at Union College may receive, at the minimum, a grade of F in the course, and bibliography. lJ!lde~ certain conditions may be Obviously accusations or dismissed or suspende~ from · even suspicions of plagiarism the Colleg~ by the Conumt~~e on- can be quite unpleasant .for both the Standmg of Students. the_ professor ;,and the student Stuqents . must learn Where involved. Often professors feel the .. bne IS d:ra~. between that pfagiarism exists but have legitimate and ll~egttunate. use no proof and other times they ?f source matenals esp~c1ally might rath-er overlook the in· m the area of paraphrasmg. In cident. But in either case the the pamphlet are several issue must be brought up and examples of proper. and im- face.d so that the community proper · paraphrasmg but realiZes that the laws are being students need to learn how to enforced. digest source materials and draw their own conclusions rather than using the con- . elusions provided in the source. Students must also learn that it iS imperative that they acknowledge very clearly in footnotes and bibliographies all sources they use. Direct quotations and all information derived from outside sources must be acknowledged. ·Com- moninformation, i.e., facts that most everyone. knows, need not be footnoted but whenin doubt it is safest to footnote or ask the professor.. Bibliographies are not sufficient as source acknowledgements. Footnotes must also· be used when materials are derived from any of the sources listed in the Plagiarism is not a major_ problem at Union but it does occur occasionally. Dean Brownlee and Dean Nelson hope that this pamphlet will make students more aware of the problem ~o ~hey can avoid being mvolved m 1t. The pamphlet will be given to all entering students, freshmen and tran~ sfers, and is available to the rest ef the campus at the Dean of Faculty's Office~ The College expects the students to be aware of what plagiarism is, the penalties involved, and that the professors are there to help if necessary. After tl'\at the ~ol,I~ge \plac~s the respon- Sibility for your own behavior squarely on your shoulders.'~ Regarding other unfriendly amendments, the Forum voted unanimously against unfriendly amendment number four, a faculty amendment that would · stipulate divisional represen- tation among the four student appointees to the Academic Affairs Council. Ainong other considerations, the Forum reasoned that this amendment was an encroachment on Student -Government procedures. At the request of the Governance Draft!ng Committee, the Forwn has refrained from commenting on the organization and procedures of the Faculty, as it was hoped that the faculty would refrain from commenting on the organization and procedures of the Student Government. · Following some discussion In other non-College Governance business, the Forum heard a report from Dave Stern, Student Life Committee Representative. The Student Life Committee (a College Go:vernance committee which advises the Dean of Students) expressed concern regarding.. the \official\ recognition and legitimacy of those clubs and organizations which do not have any written constitution and are spending student activities money. This being a very serious matter which was already being examined, the Forum delegated to the Committee on Com- mittees (whose responsibilities include recognizing con- stitutions subject to Forum approval) the responsibility for preparing immediate correc- tiv~ action. The Committee on ·Committees will meet this week regarding this matter and report back to the Forum on Monday. The Student Forum will meet again next Monday at 7:30p.m. in room 301 Carnegie Hall. All interested stuaents are invited to attend.

OONOORDI,$NS1S Nov(Jmber 1, 1979. Page 3 Commentary: Alcohol: A Chemical For Misconduct ? by DOUG ROSENFELD In tbe pre-dawn hours of the morning en last Saturday, Oct. 27, vandals destroyed the handle, frame, and window of one of the front er.tranceway doors O'l the south end of West College dormitory. At the r·oBege's expense, a hired repairman fixed the door on Monday, Oct. 29, and by Tuesday morning, it was damaged again--this time, samebocly had hurtled a flagstone through it. Mike Andolina, Union's Assistant Dean of students and the resident of the West apartment located next to that en- tranceway door, awoke at 4:15 a.m. on T~:~esday to the sound of shattering glass. When he went outside to check on the noise, the vandal or vandals involved quickly ran away, leaving behind a door which would cost a lot of money to fix and which, until repaired, would constitute both an eyesore and a security risk. This incident of vandalism is yet another example of what Andolina terms the \continuous kind of piddling vandalism\ which is commonplace on this ('arnpus. \Broken windows, rhairs, stolen furniture,\ all abound on campus, and -yet, Andolina puzzles, \I have hc.j no cases brought to my at- tention. People seem to accept it.\ When something is van- dalized or stolen, Andolina says, \at a school of two thousand, somebody must know somebody who did it. I'm not asking people to 'fink' on each other, but at least there should be a dialogue between students. Students should ·be accountable to other students for their actio11s-that's why the Conduct Committee is made up of students only.\ The problem of vandalism is only one facet of a still larger problem, Andolina perceives: the problem of alcohol-related misbehavior. According to him, at Union, \alcoholism does not seem to be the problem, at least in its traditional definition. Alcohol abuse and alcohol- related behavior are a· problem, and this problem, which is a national phenomenon, is worse elsewhere.\ The scope of the college alcohol probl,em is indeed nationwide, as is evidenced by the growing amount of concern with it at regional and national college administrative C(:m- ferences. Andolina and Dean of Students, Robert H. Kellett, attended a conference held at Hartwick CoHege, Oneonta, _ New York, on Oct. 24. The conference, sponsored by the \Mean Deans of New York State,'' focused on the student conduct problem, and ad- dressed the issue of \The Judicial Process a!'ld Student Development.\ Greg Chase, Union's Residence Life coor- dinator and Fraternity Adviser, will attend a statewide college C'Onference entitled \Alcohol Aware\ in Syracuse on Nov. 7 and 8. Andolina outlined four areas of misconduct which may be induced by the consumption of alcohol: 1) destruction of property; 2) hostile behavior; 3) disruption of Union's en- vironment; and 4) disruption of the area outside of the college. 1. DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY: The destruction of property through vandalism by drunken students leads to the physical deterioration of the campus. Not only does such wanton destruction precipitate a large repair bill for the college and, ultimately (through the increases in tuition it may warrant), for the student, but it is instrumental in turning away prospective applicants who are displeased with-the appearance of the college. 2. HOSTILE B-EHAVIOR: Too often, people use alcohol as an excuse to act with impunity in a beligerent manner towards a person they do not like. Such intimidation could not only result in injuries, but serves to open rifts amongst a student body which is too small for such nonsense. 3. DISRUPTION OF UNION'S ENVIRONMENT: Although Andolina claims that there has not been much complaint over people making too much noise while drunk, and thus disrupting the worktime of others, potential for this dif- ficulty always exists where there is alcohol. 4. DISRUPTION OF THE AREA OUTSIDE OF THE COLLEGE: Drunken students wha choose to perform their antics off~ampus are not an attractive prospect for the residents in the community nearby. More to the point, there is no immunity from serious legal prosecution outside of Union's gates. \We've been lucky,\ said Andolina, \we haven't had any major preblerns occur, such as vandalism with serious injury.\ \The people who are self- destructive or destrlictive are the ,problem, but there is notliling we can do if nobody brings charges against them.\ Andolina does not wish to say that alcahol use should be banned on campus; it should not be limited by the ad- m1nistration. \Students seem to need the outlet\ that alcohol consumption affords, ANdolina went on to say, and there is nothing wrong with alcohol use when it is not destructive. \You're not going to stop students from drinking nor shcmld you,\ Andolina said, when referred to the recent move by the SUNY at Albany administration to limit student consumption of alcohol. What,' then, is our alternative course of action? Andolina advises that, for a start at least, \students should start a self- examination of what they do when they get drunk.'~ If students become more critical of their own and others·· use of alcohol, we m1:1st be taking a step in the right direction. There seems to be evidence to support the observation tfuat · students are being more critical of their own behavior in cases of vandalism at Union. Director of Housing, Dave Wood , claims that offending ''students are turning themselves in more than usual, particularly in West.\ Moreover, Wood insists that \common area damage is down this year as compared to last year.\ Wood admits that it is dif- ficult to pinpoint the reasons for such a decline in dormitory vandalism. Attitudes, Woad feels, are impr0ved this year, and he senses ''a better mood, a better tone on campus,\ which is due he thinks, at least in part, to the fact that ''things this year have gotten off to a very good Student Forum Meets: start.\ Also, Woods cites \a lot of positive recreational programming in the dorms\ as a deterrel'lt to vandalism, maintaining that satisfaction with dorm life pf@motes respect for the dorm environment. But this vandalism problem is still a major one on campus and in the dorms. According to Wood, although \we seem to have gotten over the false fire alarms\ which characterized last year, \the emptying of fire extinguishers is a real problem this year .. '' Such tampering with fire equipment both angers and frustrates Wood , as it demonstrates \a flagrant disregard for other people in the building\ and yet is \so difficult to control.'' When asked about alcohol- related vandalism, W_o.od responded that it is difficult to know exactly how much van- dalism is alcohol-related. He agreed, though, that alcohol use is the cause for much van- dalism, and said, resignedly, that while alcohol use \has not yet showed up in terms of damages to residence halls, it will-just give it time.\ Academic Policy Discussed by ANDREW WISOFF On Monday evening, the Student Forum met for two and one half hours. The major topics were College Governance and student activities. Once again, the Forum reviewed the most recent draft of the proposed College Governance System-including all \friendly amendments\ and each of the eighteen ''unfriendly amendments.\ As planned, the Forum successfully completed its deliberations over each unfriendly amendment before the General Faculty meeting Tuesday afternoon. Approximately half of the two-hour governance discussion focused on the Legislative Flow Chart for the Academic Affairs Council ( AAC), unfriendly amendment number nine. All members were willing to accept the principle that ttie Student Government should have the power to call for an official reconsideration of AAC policy recommendations. However, the wording which had been submitted as the Forum's reflection of' that principle was a source of contention among several Forwn members. and a 7-'J vote (with one ab- stention), the Forum decided to amend its own unfriendly amendment number seven by adding a fourth faculty member to the Standing of Students Sub- Council. Formerly, the amendment had specified only three faculty members, three students and three ad- ministrators. The current Standing of Students Committee contains four faculty members. Concerning unfriendly Illegitimate Uses Realizing that the original- amendment was procedurally ineffective, Andy Mitchell, Mark Burnett, and Andrew Wisoff submitted additional amendments to repair the original amendment. After considerable debate, and no less that five votes on the particular wording involved, an agreeable compromise amendment was arrived at. The wording is such that the Forum has every possible opportunity to call for a reconsideration or rejection of proposed academic policy, but the Forum cannot veto any academic policy. Also, the wording does not allow the Forum to significantly slow down the legislative process. amendment nwnber 16, which was the last unfriendly amendment which the Forum discussed, the Forum decided by a vote of 7-4 (with one ab- stention) to allow the faculty to add one additional faculty member . to the Planning and Priorities Liaison Group if they so desired. The Forum has already amended the P&P Group to add an additional student. by IELLEN VAN DYKE Sometime near the beginning of the term the Dean of Faculty's Office placed a pamphlet in all student mailboxes. The pamphlet was entitled Plagiarism, A Cautionary Word to Students. The purpose of the pamphlet was to provide a blunt statement on what plagiarism is and what the penalties are for the offense so that students will be informed that such an of- fense does exist. From the looks of the mailroom the day the pamphlets were distributed, many students did not read them. The following is a brief summary of the pamphlet for those interested. Plagiarism is the copying of written material with the intent of taking credit for the work without acknowledging the source. It can either be done deliberately or be due to a semi- naive lack of footnoting in- formation on the part of the student. But, in either case, the fault is entirely with the student and the penalties are severe. \The student found guilty of plagiarism at Union College may receive, at the minimum, a grade of F in the course, and bibliography. u~de~ certain conditions may be Obviously accusations or dismissed or suspende<;I from even suspicions of plagiarism the Colleg~ by the Comnut~.ee on - can be quite unpleasant for both the Standmg of Students. the_ professor ~and the student Stu~ents . must learn where involved. Often professors feel the .. hne IS d_raw~. between that plagiarism exists but have legrtrmate and ll_legttunate. use no proof and other times they ?f source materials esp~c1ally might rather overlook the in- m the area of paraphrasmg. In cident. But in either case the the pamphlet are seve~al issue must be brought up and examples of proper. and un- faced so that the community proper paraphrasmg but realizes that the laws are being students need to learn how to enforced. digest source materials and draw their own conclusions rather than using the con- clusions provided in the source. Students must also learn that it is imperative that they acknowledge very clearly in footnotes and bibliographies all sources they use. Direct quotations and all information derived from outside sources must be acknowledged. Com- morfinformation,. i.e., facts that most everyone knows, need not be footnoted but when in doubt it is safest to footnote or ask the professor. Bibliographies are not sufficient as source acknowledgements. Footnotes must also be used when materials are derived from any of the sources listed in the Plagiarism is not a major problem at Union but it does occur occasionally. Dean Brownlee and Dean Nelson hope that this pamphlet will make students :more aware of the problem ~o ~hey can avoid being mvolved mIt. The pamphlet will be given to all entering students, freshmen and tran- sfers, and is available to the rest of the campus at the Dean of Faculty's Office. The College expects the students to be aware of what plagiarism is, the penalties involved, and that the professors are there to help if necessary. After tbat the C:ol_l~ge \plac~s the respon- Sibility for your own behavior squarely on your shoulders.\ Regarding ot};)er unfriendly amendments, the Forwn voted unanimously against unfriendly amendment number four, a faculty amendment that would stipulate divisional represen- tation among the four student appointees to the Academic Affairs Council. Among other considerations, the Forum reasoned that this amendment was an encroachment on Student Government procedures. At the request of the Governance Drafting Committee, the Forwn has refrained from commenting on the organization and procedures of the Faculty, as it was hoped that the faculty would refrain from commenting on the organization and procedures of the Student Government. Following some discuss~on In other non-College Governance business, the Forum heard a report from Dave Stern, Student Life Committee Representative. The Student Life Committee (a College Governance committee which advises the Dean of Students) expressed concern regarding the ''official\ recognition and legitimacy of those clubs and organizations which do not have any written constitution and are spending student activities money. This being a very serious matter which was already being examined, the Forum delegated to the Committee on Com- mittees (whose responsibilities include recognizing con- stitutions subject to Forum approval) the responsibility for preparing immediate correc- tive action. The Committee on Committees will meet this week regarding this matter and report back to the Forum on Monday. The Student Forwn will meet again next Monday at 7:30p.m. in room 301 Carnegie Hall. All interested students are invited to attend.

_P_a_g_e_·-4--------------------------~--~a~o~. N~C~O~B~D~·I~E~· N~··.~S~Is~,~N~·~ov~e~m~b~er~1J~19~.7~9~··----------------~----------~----~- culture arts Characters Emote - Father .I bring you a drama, Union College, a profession of mad- ness from one of madness' profession. This isn't a joke. Far from it. Step- Daughter Luigi. Pirandello As you marvel at the biological wonders of sperm battling towards an egg's fertilization so shall you gaze with wonde; upon our real-life battle to stir your passions! Ah, you scoff at my \'Demon of Experiment\! Look not askance at that crying woman my wife; see the pain in her eyes caused by these unavoidable events! She cries not only for our drama but for your sake as welL Don't you see · where the trouble lies? Each one of us here is in our own special world. How can I ever communicate-with you when I see things my way and you see things your way. We never . understand each other. My words fall on the deaf brains of the ·cynical imbeciles. I hope not. It is my hope that you will ~orne and see my drama as it is hved again in your Nott Memorial. Release .yourself from your chains of expectation and come · to see if you can understand me. I want a play to unravel before you that will resolve me of my doubts' and a~olve me of my sins. Yes, let th1s drama be recorded as it appears fr~sh before your eyes, a spectacle not unlike that of human birth. We can only live with your co-operation now that Pirandello· has shunned us from his workshop. We have travelled long to find shelter not only in your theatre but in your hearts and minds as well. I impl~re you with a necessity that hfe and death crises incite, to please come and see this drama. Live with us; allow us our long-awaited freedom! Please don't wait to see the drl'!.ma \Six Characters in Search of An Autlior';-at the Nott. See it as soon as you can! Drama as interesting as this cannot wait for a lazy. public. We have a child's death desertion, anguish, foolishness' stupidity,- and incest. But don't let me tell you all - s-ee for yourself! I nev.er wanted to be a · prostitute - believe me, I was forced into it by circwnstance. But how my stomach turned inside itself When my father - well, I can't even say it here. Nearly raped-.by a .. ,Uchh! Pirandello This week Concordy received the following statement from Luigi Pirandello: Beware of the dangers that lurk about you. I cannot urge you strongly enough not to attend the travesty which is about to masquerade as a \comedy in the making.\ It is not as you think. These people, each in their own way, have subjected me to needless tor- ment and blame for fear of assuming their own respon- sibilities. Their problems, their groping for identity, will only lead to a violence of the worst kind. Therefore, I cannot en- treat you enough to stay away; for your own safety and. p~ace of mind, from these performances of my living nightmares dug up from their graves. Smith Will Sing The Union College Men's Glee Club, under the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson; Will be joined by the Smith College Glee Club, under the direction of G. Roberts Kolb, for a per- formance of Ottorino Respighi's \Laud to the Nativity\ on Sunday, November 11, at 2:30 p.m.- in the Memorial Chapel of Union College, Schenectady, New York. General admission is $2: free to students and senior citizens. ' College Glee Club in Ottorino Respighi's \Laud to the Nativity.\ The Angel will be sung by Corine Salon, Mary .by Gretchen D' Armand, and the Shepherd will be announced. The Union College Men's Glee Club will also be singing in the Memorial Chapel on Saturday evening, November 17, in a concert with the Rutgers Queens Chorale from Rutgers State University in New Jersey. Details will follow. FATHER .Father The program will begin with a group of works sung by the Union College Men's Glee Club with Hugh Allen Wilson directing. Two Schubert pieces, \Trinkied\ and \Die. Nacht,\ will be followed by John Dowland's \Come again, sweet love,\ the Traditional ''Loch '· Art Exhibition Opens _ Lohmond\ as arranged by R. Vaughan Williams, Eric Thiman's .. She is my slender small love,\ another Traditional \Cockles and Mussels\ as arranged by J. W. Jenkins, and Adriano Ban- chieri's \lntermedio di Solfanari.'' The Smith College Glee Club, with G. Roberts Kolb con- ducting, wm then perform Guillaum~ de Bouzignac: \Tota pulchraes;\ Samuel Scheidt: \Laudate Dominwn;\ Ronald Perera: ''Everything That Hath Breath;\ Aaron Copland: \The House on the Hill; \ and Nor- man Delio Joio: \A Jubilant Song,\ with soprano soloist Susan Storey. Following the intermission will be Hugh Allen Wilson r.onducting the Union co·lege Men's Glee Club and the'Smith Spring Break Trip To Columbia, South America Information Meeting Wed., Nov. 7 8:15p.m. Conference Room Second· Floor Carnegie \The Language of Abstraction,\ a major exhibition of abstract art, opened Oct. 23 and will run through Nov. 17 at the Union Gallery, Schenec~ady Museum. Sponsored by the Union Gallery with the cooperation of the Schenectady Museum, the exhibit includes works by in- ternationally --recognized ar- tists.. \The Language of Abstraction\ was designed· to acquaint the uninitiated with the worlq of abstract art. The majority of the works in this exhibition belong to the Herman and Rose Burns Print Collection, donated to Union College by Trustee Arnold I. Burns of the class of 1950. Sculpture in the exhibit comes from the permanent collection of the Schenectadv Museum. A two-age text covering .the history and various aspects of abstract art will be distributed at the gallery. It was written by Florence Gilbard-Dellario, slide curator of the College's Department of the Arts. the discoveries of the masters of 20th century abstraction. Yet, for many people, abstract art works themselves remain confusing and inaccessible because they do not depict recognizable objects and events. When we confront an image that looks like nothing in the world, we may ask our- selves if we are too dull to find the message at all. We may turn away in dismay, wondering if we are the victims of paint- slinging cl!arlatans. \Reactions such as these reflect the expectation that a work of art· should . be of something. We relate easily to a painting of a forest, or a sculpture of a soldier on hor- seback because these subjects are specific and famUiar. :However, an abstract work is not of a thing in the world, it is a thing in the world. It' is a new object, self-contained and self referential. It may embody an idea, emotion, or perception, but it never merely transcribes the world as we normally see it. .. solving vocabulary or our sensitivity to the environment? The answers to such questions will provide a key to the language of abstraction.\ Take the word of a bastard. My own father, fine man that he was, is dead. Yet the man who married my mother stands · befo~e me again and again, destmed to play out his lust for me in a fitting penitence! Come and see the shame the man deserv,.es.! Believe me, there is no complicated cerebral drama here. This is the \raw guts truth\ type of entertainment this school has been dying for. Come and see how the F'ather is responsible for everything, a man with more reverence for .. his lust than for another's death. Its all there - the sex, the violence, everything. that's happened in our ill-fated lives. !here's no justice in explaining It away to words. The deeds that have been done cannot be in- tellectualized away into ob- scurity. They must not, for the sake of the honor of my deceased father! And you must help me to preserve the life of these truths! You must help me in the only means known to you. Please, if you have anything left of a feeling heart within you, join in the public disgracing of this man at my own honor's expense in the Nott. Come as many nights as you can with as many people as possible! I ask for witnesses to the truth of the drama and I ask for your help. Please come! STEP-DAUGHTER The first three paragraphs of the text offer an introduction to this unconventional and often misunderstood art form. The text begins, \For seventy years abstract art has been vital to the creation of our visual en- vironment. Our ar_ghitectm·e, furniture, advertising~ even the patterns on our clothes, reflect I \As a consequence, the viewer of abstract art works must approach them with a special set of questions. Does the work explore a conceptual problem or describe an -emotion? How are abstract elements such as line, form and color, used to formulate the problem or trigger our emotional response? Does the · -work . increase our problem- Step-daughter a ] U11 thi sul COl On I ha: an titi poJ tUI th< teJ lu< grc ba1 so rol un: yo1 yo1 , cal en• ~ An a < sin em sid Ad Do Me Wi Ha \1 \1 No Ml ha: Ha HA \N \L It? Wr col ye; ar~ th~: eaJ Th pri if ~ is pu yot it ' ym ·. th<J wh Sir Pe em linc wh of: '] tur reJ: nu1 SUI aut do be~ ind loc

the s in the can! this .. .for be a • was - rd. ain, .for is is a for the in- of of p. OONOORDIIiJNSlS, November 1, 1979 Page 5 artS' culture BUZZ COCKS Banter Union College Coffeehouse Presents: by STEVE MONOSSON Despite the effQrts of certain Union College Students to (Jeter. this writer from , ever ·~gain submitting his work to Con- cordiensis, yours truly is back once again to bring you a handful of epiphanical blessipgs and astute observati<ms to titillate the mind and by this point probably induce. you to turn to some other artiele. For those of you who have ·chosen to remain with me, this is your lucky day. For today's musical group of note is BUZZCOCKS, a band of four Britishers who rock so hard that they hardly 11eed to roll. BUZZCOCKS are for unloved lovers as well as .for your well-adjusted types; so if you fall into either of these ,-categories, read on and feel en commiserated. Singles Going Steady, the first American record by the band, is a collection of all theil\ British singles. Side one of the album is comprised of all of the \A\ sides. oftbe singles (\Orgasm Addict,'' \What Do I Get?,\ \I Don't Mind,\ \Love You More,\ \Ever Fallen In· Love With Someone (You Shouldn't Have Fallen In Love With)?' .. ''Promises Promises,'· \Everybody's Happy Nowadays,\ and \Harmony In My Head\) and the second side has all the flips (\What Ever Happened To . _ . ? \ \Autonomy \OH Shit,\ \Noise Annoys,\ \Just Lust,'' \Lipstick \Why Can't I Touch It?\ and \Something's Gone Wrong Again.\). The restrlting collection Spans nearly three years 9£ material. The songs are chronologically arranged so that side one· begjns with the earliest tune \Orgasm Addict.\ The song bristles with primitivistic punk energy and, if you can make out the words, is a· hilarious send-up of pubescent difficulties. ''Well you tried it just for once-Found it all right for kicks-But now you've found out that it's a habit .. that sticks . . . \ is the lyric which opens the tune, and Singer-Songwriter-Gllftarist Pete Shelley's high-pitched, enamoring vocalization of those lines sets a hard-to-dislike tone which is characteristic of most of side one. To go on and describe each tune would soon become repetitious, as nearly every number is deserving of superlatives and special to the author in one way or another. I do not own a copy of thi~ album because I purchased each single individually as it arrived in my local import record store. Because .of this. purchasing pattern; I got to know each song asa work in itself. Most times it would take me several ljstenings before . I would begin' to appreciate the intricate, if indelicate, subtleties of the song. Once this had b~n ac• complished; I would then find that song running through my head for months and monthg.,.. depreciating with the release of the next single. This is why I am sceptical of the album side format.- Each song is .packed with such (To find the ap- propriate word. Ah, this. one sounds okay.)' spunk that it is .hard to imagine the listener fully appreclating all of the songs even after repeated listenings. Side one is top notch, non-stop rock and roll action; there are no soppy ballads or throwaway . pace-changers. Side two is a little easier to handle, as Shelley _experiments more with Unger To Visit by DAVID RYAN On Monday, November 5th, the Idol Magazine will present David Unger, a poet and translator. While here, Unger will offer a workshop for student poets in Humanities 110 from 1:30 until 3:30, and will give a reading of his worksJrom 6:30 until 7:30 in the lounge on the second floor of the Humanities Builc:J,ing .. · David Unger's. poetry has been published in journals and reviews, and his translations have been included in various anthologies and magazines. He translates Spanish- works into English. In 1978, he received both the Translation Center Translation Award and a Push· cart Prize Citation for \Out- standing Writer,\ 1977. The subjects of Unger's works range from Mayans to the seashore, yet whatever the ~ subject there is fascination. Thus he writes in \Harbor Dawn, for Esti Dunow,'; a prose poem, \No wonder you admire a water lily staring full face to the sun. Where does one find that assurance?\ His work is thoughtful, imaginative and colorful .. All are invited to hear him read his work at 6:30 on Monday in the Humanities lounge and to attend his workshop at 1:30 in Humanities 110. Both should be of interest for those interested in poetry and-or translation. Mitch's Maze sound and texture. They could be said to be \jamming\ . on \Why Can't I Touch It?\ Side two is probably more int- pressiveupon first listening, b\lt is ultimately not as satisfying as the first. This makes sense: ''A\side songs aren't \A\ sides because of arbitrary decision. -So if you've got the time io appreciate a truly worthwhile band, then try BUZZCOCKS. They might not snag you the first time around, but if you give them a chance you'll never regret your decision. Ron Renninger Friday, Nov. 9 8:30 p.m .. Old Chapel A poco lypse Forever by GARY GLAUBER Many people .are saying that they refuse to see Francis Ford Coppola's movie ''Apocalypse Now\ on the grounds tpat they can't \stomach\ violent movies. The movie is full of military violence. Yet, \Apocalypse · Now\ does not · play upon the blood and gore of war with any type of sanguine suspense or build-up. Rather, there is a fairly smooth ride all along, a stylistic objective set-\ up. Coppola in which the spec- tacle of fire, water, smoke, and war falls short of a dreamy quality but remains slickly consistent. · Somehow I feel that the movie itself lacks much ·of the in- tellectual substance afforded it by the critics who attend to the movie's content' via literary comparisons and sharp critical dissections. But perhaps this is a true reflection upon the war itself. Wasn't Vietnam the war which lacked any true spirit and substance, a direct effrontery to . the kind of \gung ho\ spirit of wars past? Yes, that war was decidedly pseudo-intellectual, as any war might be, only this war was openly billed as such. It was a war of carelessness. Carelessness, it seems, is a necessary outgrowth of the cha9tic ''life-and-death\ existence of war. Unfor- tunately, war is not a place where one can so easily discern good from bad. In the struggle for self-survival, the state of war· becomes. a state of mind. The immediacy and reality of a sudden death looms large as a daily occurrence. People's senses are irreversibly changed by war. Martin Sheen's portrayal of Captain Willard is the very essence of a man so immersed in the jungle life of the war that any return to civilian life can no longer suffice. He cannot remove himself from war and so he remains, at movie's start, drunk in a Saigon hotel room, anxiously awaiting a \mission\ of war. The mission arrives from the powers above and Willard is appointed to assassinate (\terminate with extreme prejudice'') one renegade · American Green Beret Colona! Kurtz (Marlon Bran do), who hastaken the war into his own hands by forming his own military cult of · followers and advancing into Cambodia. Willard is provided with all the necessary data on Kurtz (dossiers, . files and records) and the movie· proceeds to tell the tale of his journey (both mentally and literally) to find Kurtz and confront him with his task. When Willard finally manages to reach Kurtz and his followers, the violence he sees is nothing more than what he has seen en route. The point is well taken that Kurtz is no more \evil\ than any other com- mander-of-war. A fine example of this fact is in Robert Duvall's role as Colonel Kilgore. Kilgore ac~s like a high school coach while in battle, never once allaying his enthusiasm for surfing amidst the rising crest of a messy war. Kurtz is no more crazy, no more dangerous, than a man like Kilgore. Kurtz knows this as well as Willard and tells him saying, \You have ·a· right to ki11 me but you have no right to· judge me.\ In a way, we have a right to see the movie but no real right. to judge it beforehand. The audience approaches the film in much the same way that Willard approaches Kurtz. We have seen all the facts about the movie in adva1:1ce; we've read the reviews, we know the story of the film; we know the stories .behind the making of the film. Slated to be the first ''Vietnam film\ \Apocalyps~\ was delayed time and again by various .and sundry crises. In the meantime, the public saw the release of Hal Ashby's \Coming Home\ and Michael Cimino's \The Deer Hunter\. The comparisons which seem to be inevitable are q.ot even worthwhile. Whilst \Coming Home\ concentrated on the personalities of people involved with the war, its soft-stateside views dealt lesswith Vietnam than with social and mental problems surrounding the war veteran and his family. \The Deer Hunter\ was also a story which explored the \hwnan side of war\. Concerning itself .vith friendships of characters, \Deer Hunter\ did not face the war bead-on. Cimino built a riveting dr.ama by playing hard upon audienc-e sympathy and identification. The first half.of the movie was · spent in getting the audience ·familiar with the hometown experiences of the three local boys before they leave ,for the war. The wedding scene was one of the warmest scenes ever recorded on film, catching a personable exuberance. \Deer Hunter\ though, does not dwell on more Vietnam footage than is necessapY to convey the story of how the war's tortures, particularly an obsession with one tortme, leads to the death of one mali, the destruction of another, and the mental break-· down (on various levels) of an three .. \Apocalypse Now~' only stands to gain from its later release. After seeing the horrors of \l)eer Hunter\ on film, one can almost take the war scenes with a seasoned numbness. In this sense, it is no more bloody than \Deer Hunter\ before it. Like its predecessors, ''Apocalypse Now\ has a story to it. Yet Coppola has deliberately avoided arousing audience sympathy for his characters and their acti~ns. They are merely pieces of the war, a confused war, and their own alienation tends to place the audience into a role of \outside observer\. Still, I feel that the action, centered in Vietnam and Cambodia (filmed in the Phillipines), comes across with a purpose. The storyline, which leads to a baffling ending, has sent people off to read up on Conrad's Heart of Darkness, · Frazer's The Golden Bough, From Ritual to Romance and T .S. Eliot's The Waste Land (the supposed literary roots of the · film): I've got nothing against intellectualizing a film to death, yet I feel that the storyline here is not as im- portant as we have been led to believe (by critics galore). I move for a de-emphasis of the movie's literary roots to arrive at what I perceive to be the crux of what is to be gained from a viewing of \ApocalyPse Now\. I feel that the key to the film, aside from its spectacular visual effects, is in its excellent representation of the careless confusion of war. Coppola ef- fectively displays a nwnber of scenes where the total chaos reigns rampant and the ugliness of war pierces the screen like a cry of paranoia. In Vietnam, things are highly unorganized at the front, and the idea of a \team effort\ is a scary con- cept in light of' one's own \crazed and phazed\ military accomplices. Those \close to the edge,. or beyond it, are fighting the war without any rhyme or reason to the fight, often trying hardest to ignore the war in an attempt to maintain the vestiges of sanity. No one feelS this struggle more firmly in the course of the movie than the introspective Willard, who slowly evolves onto a path which be sees is Continmed oa page lt

~p-~~g~e_6----------------~~--~~----~0~0~N~O~O=R~D~I~E~N~S~I~S~,~N~o~v~e~m~b~e~r~1~~·~1~91~9~ .. --------------------~~------------- ••Nott~' Without A- Pur-pOse Continued from page 1 plateau tne ordered geometry of Lnion's buildings was the natural This was iorty-five years after the original conception, and fourteen years after the death of Ramee. l'{ott tunfed to his llrandson Edward rr ... ~t.. ... woYn, .... View from KA Gate, 1925. What's missing? terrain of woodlands, fields, and streams.· No tight medieval academic cloisters were to be repeated here. Instead, buildings were arranged about a .central parvis, which in turn opened wide to the western vista-that same West wherein the new nation anticipated the fulfillment of its · destiny. Following the lead of \the an• cient Greeks in siting temples, Ramee gathered the energy of the landscape along an ex- tended western axis and made it an integral part of his ar- chitectural conception. Ramee focused upon a scheme in which the buildings create an image of \ar- chitecture as the harmonious counterpoint of nature.\ North and South Colleges, which were the flanking structures,. were Potter to design the building from RRmee's original drawings. Potter;s brother, from a similar design, built the Chancellor Green Library at Princeton. The original circular safety and permanency of buildings~ T~e primary exterior building fabrtc of Memorial ·Hall (the name after Nott's death) was the stonework. Potter created a hi-chromatic stucco wall ·using .. Schenectady wacki, a bluestone, randomly placed, and, set off by extensive use of creamy Ohio sandstone. Risili.g from a massive, sloping water table of the Ohio stone, the waRs were animated by a lively syncopation utilizing the two varieties of stone. Window sills, wall ,battdings, string courses, and trefoil openings, aU employed the carefully dressed lighter stone. In the voussiors, ()f the second and third floor arches the Ohio and Schenectady stones alternated with one aoother-an audacious, unforgettable feature of the polychromatic scheme. Columnettes of polished granite from Abetdeen, Scotland, ·were placed in front of the first floor window mullions. These, in pairs of red and black granite, were arranged~ in alternate bays. Today, largely obscured by a century's accumulation of dirt and clinging ivy, the building presents only a faint remainder of its original colorful construction. The interior structure of the · of one another, carried. the load of d~me, roof and gallery floors down to the original circle of the stone foundation piers .Jaid in 1859. Connecting the columns at the top of each tier were sixteen wrought iron I beams bearing the rolling mill mark of the Phoenix Iron Company of Philadelphia. These beams were bolted to anchors and brackets cast integraRy with the columns. Tbe dome structure consisted of sixteen -wrought iron ribs, ·five and ()De half incb deck beams (today rominonly called bulb tees),bend along their length in a quar.ter circle of twenty-five' foot radius. These ribs spanned from the top of the upp.ermost column to a compression ring at tl1e crown of the dome. There were three colors of Vermont slate used in sheathing the patterns on the dome and lower roof. The colors of purple, gr:een, and red were used. in creating the decorative pe.ndant motifs, originating from the crown of the dome, carrying down each of the sixteen segments defined by the projecting structural ribs, and terminating in a six pointed star. Beneath these, girding the lower portion of the dome, ran a band of red slates bearing a Hebrew inscription in purple achieved by coml)b:dn-2: floral too distracting and too difficult to adapt to the technique of. .slating.) Dr. Lewis apparently had provided a sentence from the Talmud. In i.ts simplest translaJion, this read: 'The work is great, the day is short, the master presses the work· nleli.' The use of the tile pavement is probably a result of the revival of medieval caustic tile manufacture in England during the 1830s. While now largely obscured by modern renovations, tb·e pavements covered over .five thousand square feet of floor in a single unmterrupted sweep. The lively variety in coloration and pattern created a spec- tacular sight. Colors ranging from white, beige, umber, black to shades of blue, green, red, and bellow, were organized in . bQrders and ornamenud pat- terns over the entire floor. Geometric patterns }\'ere made by combining square, rec- tangular and he~agonal.shapes in various solid colors. Other decorative motifs were :patterns spread continuously over several different tiles. The central space under the dome was treated as a continuous field checkered. with decorated and geometri~ tiles. Surroun- ding this under the galleries ran peripheral bands Qf alternating decorative and ge.ometric patterns. In this area a large floral medallion was centered in each of the sixteeq bays. -placed at the advanced edges of the terrace (the West College area down below the em- bankment was not part of the College grounds). The colon- nades, which are the low run- ning arcades running on either side of the central courtyard ~ (the Psychology building and· Hale House) terminated in cubic nodes (the Arts Building and the Old Chapel). The -ex- tinct Washburn -Hall swung around (in a half circle) to enclose the area. Nott Memorial and Washburn Hall. The report indicates that there was no further con- struction after November of 1878. The lack of aii adequate heating plant rendered the building practically useless for twenty-five years. In 1902, Andrew Carnegie donated $40,000 to the College which enabled Union to make modificatiQns on the building, specifically for the purpose of converting the first and second levels into a library, The upper gallery level was transformed into the college musewn. ''Here · the various geological, :zoological, botanical, historical, mechanical, artistic collections were gathered together to create a veritable-college attic.\ Prior to this work the building had been- the College museum, which had entrances at four poles. Only the \.south entrance remained after this con- struction. In the summer of 1903 Finally, all the latent -power in the composition was summed up in a great domed cylinder set at the head of the parvis on the focus of the . exedra. Tbis cylinder--a Roman rotunda-- derived from its dominant position and elemental shape enough power to juxtapose the visual impact of the western vista. The centralized form of th~ rotunda which Ramee chose to climax his composition is what we now refer to as the Nott Memorial Theater. As stated in the report, _this form was an obvious choice for the French architect because \from grave drcles of primitive times to centralized churches of the Italian Renaissance, man had favored circular forms as symbolic of the unity, com- pleteness, and infinite essence of the universe!'This structure was never realized during the extended term of President Nott, but remained nonetheless, a continuing ambition. The cornerstone of the building was laid on a Wed- nesday afternoon, July 28, 1858. plan was broken into sixteen straight sides, the original dome w:as reduced in diameter of the inner ring of columns and set atop a drum rising out of a lower sloped roof spanning the peripheral space outside the columns. In the Spring of 1859, Nott ordered the foundations for what ·was to be known as Graduates Hall to start to oe laid. This was despite the fact that the pledged subscriptions had not yet resulted in cash, and that there were not yet any working drawings. On May 16 of ·that year the foundations \a sixteen sided polygon ~ith .radius to the outer angles of 44 feet,\ were staked out. In 1866, Eliphalet Nott died without seeing Graduates Hall rise any higher than the foun- dations. Work ·commenced again after much dispute over the cost and the design: In the end the architect's wishes prevailed. The building would be a single lofty space cong structed entirely of iron. His insistence upon fire resistant construction throughout reflected a growing professional concern for the building was wholly engineered m· iron. This reflected Potter's concern for fire safety and also a limited budget. The system consisted of a logical assembly of cast, wrought, and sheet iron elements. Five tiers of sixteen cast Iron bolted on slate. As Potter exiilained in a March 7, 1875 letter- to Dr. Taylor Lewis, Professor of Philosophy at Union, he wished the .slate patterns on the dome to convey something more than meaningless ornamentation. So he seized upon the idea of an inscription in Hebrew. (Latin pr(tbably was considered Noff Memorial Library. · the conversion work was complete, and the books were removed from Washburn Hall and placed in the Nott. The Union College Library was housed within the Nott Memorial for fifty-eight years. The report relates that \suq- , Continued on page 10 - -) Th Rath !:lazy and' late form must beca on c~ stmlE forb the p than ProfE do h~ Du' 1940, for ' cam~ Old( place was co ncr good libra neces into t be th area stor{ll possil a R~ futlm Fro store bas en broug Rath: minis· Presi Chapl to the Webb down, studer him t better idea' anotht prove• brougl TrustE prove< In tl studer: older returr vetera older well, v action Raths1 atmos] Germ~ be nicE eampu South, about l the t bas em Raths~ tioned. think place after s with s• eluding manag and lee campu, approv raised The eontrib to take imprm ronstru installiJ and in sewer floodin1 about t·aised solicit~ everyth labor.·~ carpent student came which v the spa, use. Ch; campus College Plumbir worker

OQNOORDIENSIB 1 Nov~mber 1, 1919 _:page 7 RathskeUar: ~· f Its History by ELLEN VAN DYKE The idea of having a Rathsk<'llar on campus was a hazy concept back in the 1930's and was never initiated until the late 1940's. The idea that was formulated and acted on in 1948 must ha¥e been a ,gooj one, because despite having the Pub on campus, a large number Qf students .frequent t~ SkeHar. for beer, food, and, of course, the pinball machines.· And it is thanks to the foresight of Professor Helmer Webb that we do have the Skellar. Schenectady laws. On December 2, 1949 the Rathskellar opened for its first - day of business, . The Dutchman's Rathskellar Organization was approved by j' . the Student Council (now the c Student Forum) as a student ~ activity in February 1949. It was ~ an organization having open ..., membership with several of- ~ fices: general manager, ~ busines~ manager, personnel &. manager,. and purchasing Continued on page 9 un1oo's Rathskellar During the school ye~r 1939~ 1940, the college found a· need for· more .storage space on campus. The basement of th.e Old Chapel was seen as a good place to use: :Because the floor ''Diary· Of A Mad·person'' - was still dirt at that point, concrete had to be poured. With good foresight, Prof. Webb, the l·ibrarian, saw to it that necessary floor drains were put into the campus so there could be the posSibility of using the area for . otl;ler purposes than stor~ge. He had a concept of possibly having something like a Rathskellar there in the · future. · From 1940-47 books wei e stored in the Old Chapel basement. Then Prof. Webb brought up the idea of a Rathskellar at an ad.: ministrative council meeting. President Davidson and Chaplain Brown were opposed - by R. I. MANDEL If was a dark and stormy night and I was searching for a dimly-lit bar in which to drink my sorrows away. I. finally found a suitable place, and sat down to my self-pitying task. As I sipped my drink I overheard some students discussing colleges and· universitities. As I slipped into my stupor I heard one say, \I'm a student at Union. University, in Schenectady.\ I stopped and gasped, (probably most difficult thing to do, considering . that they would think that I had transferred without telling them, and would stop sending me my allowance. So, this was a very important issue. I planned a course of action, chose my questions carefully and headed for the person who knew the most of .anyone, about everything on this campus. I · was a little apprehensive about approaching her on this par- to the idea at that time. Prof. \The basic problem with the Webb then took Chaplain Brown down to one of the local bars the students frequented to show University Is the dis.tance between him the need for some place better to go on campus. The idea was brought up again at th.e schools.\ another meeting. It was ap- proved and Pres. Davidson brought it before the Board of Trustees who eventually ap- proved the concept. In the late 1940's the average student age on campus was older than usual due to the returning World War II veterans. It was one of these older students, Hobert Heart- well, who first initiated student action. on the idea of a Rathskellar. He had enjoyed the atmosphere of such places in Germany and thought it would be nice to have such a place on r·ampus. When sp.~aking to Bill South, food director at that time, about his ideas, he learned that the thaught of using the basement of Old Chapel for a Rathskellar had been men- tioned. At first Heartwell didn't think it was an appropriate place but changed his mind after seeing it. He got together with some other students, in- cluding Tom Elliot, production manager of the Mountebanks, and led a fUnd raising effort on campus following the grant of approval by the Trustees . .!fhey raised a total of $3278.30. The College made a major c-ontribution financially in order to take care of three physical improvements. These were: ronstructing a front entrance, installing bathroom facilities, and installing heavy storm sewer pumps to prevent flooding. This work totalled Clbout $10,00.00. The money r·aised by the student fund solicitation took- care of . everything else using voluntary labor. The electrical work and rarpentry was all done by students. Benches for the booths came from the Old Chapel which was being dismantled so the space could be put to more use. Chairs came form all over campus and . were painted by College secretaries. Only the · Plumbing was done by outside Workers to comply with because I swallowed my swizzel stick), and realized, \There is no such thing · as Union University. I know, because I am a student at Union College.\ I felt very sure of myself, my sources and my information, and was hoping ·to degrade the speaker of those words in front of his friends, making my evening. I cautiously ap- proached him and confronted him with his folly. \Hey you, don't you know that it Is Union College and not Union University.\ He smiled a coy, knowing smile and said, \You'd better get your facts straight, hucko.\ Well, not knowing what to do and being taken aback by this statement, I went back to my seat at the bar muttering about the inadequacy of the school newspaper in ·its ability to relate pertinent ~n­ formation. After all, how come no one knew that we had become a University. Were we ignorant because the change had happened very late Tuesday night, so it was too late to go into that weeks issue of Concordy, and by the next week it , was old news, so not ap- propriate to print? What was the story? I decided at that moment to become a roving reporter, to upgrade the quality - of news at Union, to emerge as a muck-raker in my own right. I wanted. to know if in fact we had, overnight, without anyone telling us, become a University. Afterall, a change of that im- portance :would have tremen- dous repercussions on this campus. Think of it, every shirt in the bookstore would have to be replaced, all of our IDs revalidated, and nury.erous other changes would have to be effected, including telling my parents about roy address alteration. This would be the ... ticular topic, because if I was treading on a sensitive topic, I might anger her, and that could jeopardize my entire college (or university) career. I mounted the long winding staircase, careful not to let my clogs make too much noise on the hard, mahogany steps. I walked along the red carpet into the room at the end of the hall. So this is where she was, the purveyor of an· knowledge, and the con~ troUer of the campus--The President's Secretary. I meekly entered her office, and knocked, hopigg that I wasn't disturbing her .. I heard her say, \Yes please come in, Can I help you?\ I was overwhehned at. her sincerity and desire to be of some assistance arid took this as a sign that my mission was one of destiny. I asked, not knowing what to expect, if there was a Union University charter. If there was, I wanted to know whether I could examine it for a little while. She answered that there was a charter and that I could see it and use .it for research, if I stayed in the office with it. I was a_mazed, I was stupefied, I was in shock. Surely this~ couldn't mean that there actually was a Union Univer- sity. As she handed me the 5...S page mimeo copy of the charter, I thanked her profusely, and a thousand questions ran through my mind. When? How? Who? Where? and What?(I know, that's only five) Then it began 'to make sense. Before and during the Civil War, the local colleges were concerned about intellectual accreditation. They wanted to form a consortium of local colleges and universities for the benefit of all, to improve academic standards. The result of this endeavor was Union University and the purpose, as - stated in the charter was to '' .· .. promote sound religion and learning, and tbe development of the institutions, parties hereto, in the interests of higher education, in conformity with the university system.\ Union University was chartered in 1873, and contained Union College, . Albany School of Medicine, Albany School of Pharmacy, Albany Law School and the Dudley Observatory. This alliance is still in existence today. It has been referred to by several people I have in- terviewed -as a \paper\ university, meaning that it exists, it has a charter, mem- bers, a Board of Trustees, but has very few practical pur- poses. The basic problem with the University is the distance between the schools. In order for a Union College student to take a course at anyone of the other schools, it is necessary to get to Albany, either by bus or car, consistently for a good number of weeks. It is not a feasible proposition. This dif- ficulty is compounded by the discrepancy between our trimesters, and the other school's semesters. ' Another obstacle in a workable University is the incongruency in program between the different schools. Union College is an un• dergraduate school with a liberal learning curriculum, while the other schools are specialized graduate in- stitutions. Possibly, we might ex~hange professors with the other schools, to get a sampling of graduate level courses, and to give our professors a chance to teach upper level courses. This· program might succeed, but not __ on a large scale, because of the student bodies. For example, through this association, students .could be guaranteed the use of the· facilities at the other schools. Discounts af- forded to students at a par- ticular school for concerts could be extended to the students from the rest of the University. In general, good will and public relations would be fostered between the schools and possibly create a healthier environment for learning and socializing. There is even a possibility of holding social functions that include the other schools. Wouldn't you like to meet a nice law student, or a cute pharmacist? The programs .that currently exist within the University, the six-year medicine program with Albany Med, the six-year law program with Albany Law and various programs ad- ministered through IAM (Institute of Administration and Management). !AM offers three gradw~te programs in health studies, one of which is-a M.S. in health systems managemeHt, taught in conjunction with the Albany College of Pharmacy. At this point in time, Union University is functioning in minimal capacity. It has the potential of making graduate school resources available to Union College students, of fostering better faith between the schools, and of improving the social aspects of' all of the institutions involved. The catalyst for this type of development is a motivated, and interested' student body. At this time there is no one, at least at Union, willing to devote the time and energy into making Union University a reality, and a beneficial and productive prospect. So, Union University \At this point In time, Union University is functioning In a minimal capacity.\ 1 • 1 • • •' • • 1 ,.• ' \'• o • '; ' \ PI ,' ' ,· ': distance that must be travelled, and again, the inconsistency between the curriculums. Union· University has limited potential in the area of student relations. Several students at the Albany Law School, and representatives from the other schools, are attempting to form a Union University Students Association. The Student Association would connect the schools in various ways that would benefit the general will remain a \paper\ university. If there is anyone willing and capable ofhelping to put together a Students Association please contact me at 370-6155, the Concordy office. Who knows, perhaps one day I will be sitting in a Pub and hear someone say, \Hey I'm a member of the Student Association of Union Univer- sity.\ Then I will be able to smile a knowing smile, and retur~ to my drinking in peace.

\ Page 8 QONOORDIEN81FJ, November 1, .1919 ----Around· Campus--.--/ - The Gilt Of Life by HARRY MILLER Do you have a few spare moments~ Then you can answer yes to the q(Jestion of giving the gift of life. The Kidney Foun- dation is sponsoring a drive to see that all Union students carry a Kidney Donor card. How can you help? It's very easy. On Wednesday, November 7th from 9:00 A.M. to 1:00 P.M. in Carnegie Hall and during the dinner hours of November 7th & 8th at the dining halls, there will be booths set up for the signing of cards which you will carry with you. These cards will take just a few minutes to fill 1out, a few minutes to save a life. Why is it important? Thirteen million people suffer each year from Kidney disease. 'Fifty-five thousand die from chronic renal disease. More than forty-two thousand people need dialysis to keep the breath of life, while over 25,000 people are awaiting a transplant. Yet only a few thousand of these 25,000 will get a viable Kidney. By signing a Kidney Donor card, you are not signing your life. away. It simply enables the harvesting of your Kidney to be .less· of a painstaking ordeal. Even with this card the consent of your next of kin is usually the determining factor; however, without this alternative the . harvesting of the kidney is usually never even considered. . Through the distribution of these donor cards we can serve two purposes: 1) to help alleviate the shortage of Kid- neys and 2) as a tool in com- munity educationo...carrying a card will popularize the idea, so that' others will carry a card. Many people haye asked why thtl cards -are distributed during the dinner hours? If this upsets you please come Wed- nesday, Nov. 7, from 9:.1. . (however the .booths in the dining halls are the surest way to reach almest everyone). There are over 2,000 students at Union, only 1200 cards will be available to us--can we distribute them all? Please take a few minutes and give something invaluable to us all, the gift of life. Sav,e Our Whales by TARYN HAGE \A sudden and violent gushing of blood pours from -the ba.ttered intestine.s just moments after the horrible 150- lb. explosive harpoon bursts into the massive body of the whale.\ This is a description of ruthless and savage modern · methods of whale hunting. The romantic days of 19th century whaling have vanished, leaving behind the ·senseless torture and agony of the highest form of life .....-AREA CALENDAR---~ DINNER November 6~-The Latham Rotary Club will be holding a Spaghetti Supper for the pur- pose of raising funds for community projects. The dinner will be held from 5-8 p~m. at the Latham Youth Center, Route 7, Latham. For further information call 458-9696. LECTURE November 9--The Faculty Woodwind --Quintet will appear· at SUNY Albany's Performing Arts Center at 8:30 p.m. The concert. will take place in Page Hall. For further information call 457-8606. THEATER November 9-11-RAlN AND SHINE, winner of the Hungarian Critics Best FUm Award for 1977, will be shown at the University at Albany's Performing Arts Center < on in the sea. Over and above the inhwnanity of the slaughtering, there looms the prospect of extinction for the whales. Despite the warnings and ap- peals of scientists and· con- servationsists the senseless killing continues. In 1972, the United Nations Conference on the- Human Environment, in. Stockholm called for a ten-year moratorium on all commercial whaling. Despite this action,. the Japanese, Russian, and Nor- wegian whaling expeditions continued to slaughter whales. Another Moratorium was 'proposed in 1978 at the Inter- national Whaling Commission in Panama. Japan blackmailed this proposal, which was sub-· seqllently withdrawn. The realization of the inhumanity of the killing of whales lies in the fact that there is no need for whale products. Mink food, fertilizer, margarine; cosmetics, and lubricating oil can all be · manufactured through cheap alternative sources. The resolution to this un- necessary problem lies with you and your efforts to save the largest creature with the most complex brain of any life on Earth. There is an international organization known as Greenpeace, which is a<;tively working to protect . the threatened existence of the whale. Greenpeace launched 1ts first attack against whaling in 1975 when members placed themselves in the line of fire of explosive harpoo~. The result of actions such as these is the saving of the lives of thousands of whales. Nearly every country in the world has outlawed coriunercial whaling, and many, such as the U.S., have closed their borders to the products of whales. A ten-year moratorium on ,commercial whaling has been proposed by the U.N., the U.S. government, and Greenpeace. Nonetheless, a few nations such as Japan and Russia have continued to ignore these demands. To learn more about this issue, all are invited to a · presentation by a representative from Green• peace on Nov. 8 at 7:30p.m. in the lower Hale House Lounge. Films of whale hunting and seal November 8- There will be an Friday and Saturday, ' clubbing will be shown. Those , who. wish to donate to this life- saving cause may send their introductory lecture on November 9 and 10 at 8:30 p.m. Trancendental Meditation in and on Sunday, November 11 at Straus9Lounge at Union College. 2:30 p.m. For further in- All students and faculty are formation call 457-8606. welcome. November 9-10-The musical November 11--English opera, THE OLn MAID AND professor Sheldon Grebstein THE THIEF, will take place at from SUNY Binghamton will the James Meader Little present a lecture .on Philip • Tl;leatre at 8 p.m. For further Roth's,, fortiloy's Complaint, information call270-2344 or 270- portrait of a Jewish young man ~46. as a comic whiner and sexual On October 5 and 6, Union stunt man. The lecture Will be College participated in a Career held in The Auditoriwn of the Octoberfest held in the State Musewn in Albany at 1:30 Memorial Field House. Com- p.m. For further information, panies from all over the Urtited call 472-6695. States came to display their job MUSIC November 7-8arah Baldwin Reynolds will return for an engagement at the Caffe Lena on Wednesday, Nov. 7, bringing her unique classical singing style to a collection of unusual Adirondack mountain sC\ugs, traditional folk music, spirituals, and her own com- positions. Curtain time is 8:30 at the Caffe, 47 Phila Street, Saratoga Springs .. For further information call 584-9789. November 7-Pianist Paula Ennis and cellist Douglas Moore will appear at SUNY Albany's Performing Arts Center. The concert will begin at 4 p.m. in Recital Hall. For further information call 457- p. needs and answer questions. The Business Representatives were more than willing to talk to students in order to help .the undergraduate get a better understanding ·Of their com- pany. The Octoberfest offered students a rare opportunity to explore fields of interest and to discover new paths they might consider for their future. It seems a shame that more students, both seniors and underclassmen, did not take advantage of this event. They missed an excellent chance to become acquainted with the \business world\ in a very relaxed and informal setting. Let's hope that this event is repeated in the years to ·come and that more students realize how helpful and informative it can be. contributions to Greenpeace · New England, 286 Congress St., Boston, Ma., 02210. The cries of the Whale must be echoed by -outcries of our own if we wish to s_ave the beautiful creature. . JSO-Hillel Yes, it's true-the Jewish Student Organization (Hillel) of Union College is alive and living in Schenectady, New York. Activities for this year have already included a very suc- cessful wine and cheese reception for incoming Jewish students, a Friday night Shabbat dinner, a· Sukkah party, and a Sunday morning bagel and lox brunch. If, by some odd chance, you have OPEN DOOR l36 Jay Street Downtown Schenectady ·3~-~m~ missed the aforemendoned activities-and even if you ·have not-Hillel now invites you to a presentation of the movie, The · Diary of Anne Frank, on Wednesday, November 7 in SS 016. And then, the highlight of fall. term, Cafe' Hillel•a night club evening, will take pia~~ on .Saturday, November 17 in the Cabaret Room. Hillel invites all interested students to attend any of these future activities. Bottle Bill The following petition was· presented to the Union College Community on Tues., Oct. 30.· Almost 500 hundred people signed this petition. For those of you woo did not get a chance to read or sing your name, a CQPY can be found at the check out desk in the library. The petition reads as follows:. To Governor Hugh Carey, Senator Hugh Farley and . Assemblyman Fred Isabella: We the undersigned are in favor of the passing of An Act To Amend the Environmental Conservation Law, in Relation to Litter and Solid Waste Control, 5.2153. A. 2822 known as the bottle bill. We support a system of returnable beverage containers, because it would be beneficial both environmentally and economically. IF TIDS BILL IS PASSED, THE FOLLOWING ADVANTAGES WOULD RESULT: 1. a considerable reduction in the consumption of. energy and resources, · 2. an increase of job op- portunities in beverage related industries, 3. the preservation of the increasingly threatened aesthetic beauty of the natural environment . Alpha Phi Omega bySUEMARR ,During the past several weeks students from R.P.I. have been trav:eJ]ing to Union with a very specific goal in .mind. They are members of tbe Epsilon Zeta ChapteJi of Alpha Phi Omega, a national service fraternity, and would like to re-organize a chapter at Union. One had · originally existed at Union in the early forties but faded · during the turbulent sixties. .Be Continued on page 18 ASCE Meeting: Thurs., Oct :1, 1979, 7; 30 featuring:. Prof. Snow Lake Restoration Project there environmental · · engineers BEER & MUNCHIES . Unhn Colle_ge Philosophy Department is pleased to an- nounce that Professor Richard Taylor of the University of Rochester and Visiting Professor at Union College will present a talk entitled \Imagination\ Wednesday, November 7, 1979, at 4:30p.m. in Humanities 213 1 Refreshments and Informal discussion will follow in Humanities Faculty U>Onge. Anyone interested is welcome to attend. Alumni Fund by WILL HALLGREN I had no idea what the Annual Fund was when my editor asked me to write about it. He told ine to go and talk to Paul Riescbick (Union '74) who, according to his card, is the Associate Director of development (Director of the Annual Fund). This means that he organizes. the fund raising. The Annual Fund covers part of the operating costs of the college. It helps to pay for library books, studerit scholarships, and faculty salaries among other things. Mr. Rieschick said/ that even though he is the director of the . Fund he falks to very few alumni himself. He is a. coor- dinator. The people who do the bulk of the contacting a·re the 1200 alumni volunteers and the 160 student volunteers. The student volunteers are in- strumental during the Fund's week-long phone-a-thon. . The phone-a-thon occurs during ·the spring. Mr. Rieschick sends out notices to the fraternities, sororities, and dorms, and asks them to sign up teams. There are sixteen teams which consist of two members for each of the five nights.· A keg of beer is awarded to the team that entices the largest increase in donations from the alumni they are .assigned to contact. Anyone interested in further information may contact Paul Rieschick, whose office is ·on the third floor of Lamont House, or phone-a-thon committe·e chairman Vivian Farrell. The National Chairman, Rick Angle '38, presented the goals of the Fun:d at this year's Agent's Awards Dinner. The dinner was held during Homecoming weekend. They wish to raise $1.3 million. They hope that $625,000 will come through alumni Solicitation. Union. has 53 percent of its alunuii who contribute. The national average is only 17 percent. Mr. Rieschick cited the volunteers as being a large part of this success. Another way the Fund raises money is through corporate matching. When employees of some corporations give a contribution, the corporation will also give a donation to that cause. Last year an additional $130,000. was solicited from local businessmen. Patents were responsible for another $59,000 in donations. Corporate grants help to make up the balance. Paul Rles~hlck,direC:tor ofthe Annual Fund (Union '74).

ep ry re a in · al y OONOORDIENSIS, November 1, 1919 Page 9 Union's RathskeUar: Thirty Years • Continued from pa2e 7 ag~nt.. These offic~rs super- vised the day to day activities of the Skellar. The organization had its own accounting system and bank account. It was the first student activity to be outside theCollege's accounting system. They had a payroll every week, .paying in cash, with no student earning more than $11.99 per week to avoid the problems of withholding taxes. According to New York State laws, there are two types ,of liquor licenses in the category the Skellar was considering. One. is an open license which is applied for hy an individual or by a corporation. The other is a club license which means that only members of the club may be served alcohol. The Skellar, as of last year, has a club license, .but originally it had an open license, In order to apply for. the open license, a cor- poration was formed, as no one The corpOration formed was the Union College Student Council, Inc. This name was chosen so that if the Student Council ever had need of a corporate body it could use this one. The cor- poration consisted of a Board of Directors and a membership of the entire student body. The membership was changed in the mid 1950's to include just the members of the Student Council because of the difficulties in getting together a quorum. The Board is made up by the President of the Student Body, the Chairman of the Tax Committee, the lFC President, the President of the Dormitory Council, the Dean of Students, a . .staff member appointed by the College President, and two elected students. Mr. Schmidt, of the Registrar's Office,has filled the staff position since he was appointed by President · Davidson in 1954. The Board controls policy, contracting with organizations or in- The Rathskellar was run under student organization with students doing everything in the management capacity until the spring of 1961. At this point management was extremely lax, partially due to· waning student enthusiasm over tne years. It was suggested by the Board that professional management be brought in during the summer. The student managers asked to be allowed to look for an individual who would oYersee the completion of routine jobs-while still allowing them to be managers. They failed to find anyone, and by student and administrative decision, the Skellar did not open the following fall. During the fall semester of 1961 the manager of West, from Saga, tried convincing his. people the Skellar would be a worthwhile operation to take over. · An agreement was · eventually reached· that if the Skellar Board would make some physical improvements GRAND . OPENING CELEBRATION of 2 New York stores - - $30 COAT SWEATERS Heavy-weight .$12 $26 VELOUR SHIRTS Plush cotton blends \$15 FlANNEL SHIRTS Extra soft $4 $24-$30 CORDUROY SLACKS For men and young men • Fabulous exciting BRAND tMME buys in all CASUAL MALE stores. Come in NOW! ALBANY ,Century II Mall, Central Plaza, 900 Centr':ll Av~., STORE HOU~S:l0-9 Mon.Sat., 12-5 Sun., COLONIE, Wolf Road Shopped Par'k (in the same shopping c~nter as ServiCe Merchandise)~ .STORE HOURS:l0-9:30 Mon-Sat,., 12-5 Sun.; ROT'TERDAM,Rotterdam Mall (next to Tempo Fashion), SIORE HOURS:l0-9 Mon.Sat., 12,5 Sun. ALSO IN KINGSTON and BENNINGTON,_ VT.· ?n the place, ~ga would be mterested. Aboutr $6,000.00 was spent on repairs and a general clean-up. The Skellar re-opened in January 1962 with a contract between Saga and the Cor- poration. Saga was in charge of the Skellar and paid a rent to the Corporation based on a fixed base figure plus a percentage of sales. This continued until Saga left the campus. Now the Board · has a contract with Union Food Services which pays them a percentage of just the gross sales. Opening day of the Rathskellar; back on Dec. 2, 1949, marked a day of ac- complishment for Elliot and Heartwell. They had succeeded in a project, backed by strong campus effort~, to have a place on campus where students could go and have a beer and relax. There was an effort, in the spring of the first year, by some influential people, to have the Alumni Council make a major contribution to the Skellar on the condition they stopped selling beer. This offer was refused because donations had been raised to make the Skellar possible on the promise to students that beer would be sold. Management Intern MBA Program Th1s outstanding educational plan Involves s1x months o'f classes: followed by a six-month mternship of paid professronal work experience: then nme more months of classwork. The internship concept. wh1ch Northeastern pioneered. gives you pract1cal. real-world experience in your own field of interest. It helps you pay for your education. And it often leads to important contacts for the future. Classes begin m June and·January. r----------------------------------------------, I F f h . f . d BB I 1 or urt er 1n ormat1on, sen to: 1 1 Susan V Lawler 1 I I 1 Coord1nator. Management lntem Program 1 I Graduate School of Busmess AdminiStration I I Northeastern Un1vers1ty I 360 Hunt1ngton Avenue I Boston. Massachusetts 02115 Name ______ ~ Sc11oo1 Address State Class ZIP I I I ----------------------------------------------~ :~·- Northeastern University REPRESENTATIVE ON CAMPUS ON NOVEMBER 7 Join the sales team that needs no introduction. Xerox equipment is a corporate necessity. We're an industry leader and, of col:ll'se, · the original. You'll start by learning our diversified business. Then join the sales force that sold an industry. We offer advancement that can't be duplicated. In reprographics, and communications, Xerox is the information center of the future. Introduce yourself to a leader! We're interviewing students with a Bachelor's or Master's Degree and detennination to get ahead. Check with your college placement office for dates and schedules. Then talk to our campus tepresentatives. XEROX Xerox.is an affirmative action employer (male/female)

... Page 10 .. BULLETIN BOARD Pre--registration materials for winter term 1979-80 will bE <tvailable at the Office of the l!t>,5ist.rar,· Room 2, .. :'llinistration Building, beginniitg Monday, November 12th. Students are urged to !'>romptly secure their copy of thP.se 'materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the winter term, except for graduating seniorsseniors, mustimmediately give notice af their plans to the Office of the Dean · of Students. Potential December graduates should inform the Office of the · Registrar of their plans to finish. their studies at the end of fall term, if they have not already done so. Students should canfer with Faculty Advisers during the week of November 12-16. Some departments may announce special arrangements for ad- vising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, November 19th. A . ten dollar ($10.00) late fee will · be assessed thereafter. A meeting for all students interested in the possibility of being part-time interns in the · state legislature will be held at 4:20 on Tuesday, November 6 in S.S. 115. Twenty internships will . be arranged .for the winter- spring terms as part of PS 176- 178, Legislative Observers. On Tuesday, November 6 there will be a meeting of junior political science majors for the purpose of ele~ting student representatives to the Department. The meeting will take place at 5:00 in S.S. 115. - HAVE FUN IN THE SUN! . Looking for something different for Spring Break? A good tan and a good time can be yours in Cartegena, Columbia, South America. Information meeting will be Wednesday, November 7 at 8:15 in the Conference Room on Second Floor Carnegie. Come see slides and find out about the college student (i.e., cheap) rates. Refreshments will be served. Museum trip to New York City; About 10 spaces are available on a bus trip to the Metropolitan Museum with Prof. Bush's class on November 9 leaving 8 a.m. and arriving back in Schenectady .ap- proximately 8 p.m. Cost per person $10 (one way or return trip). See Virginia Bush or Irma Hamilton in Arts 205 to reserve a place .. Poetry W9rkshop: November 5th-David Unger. 1:30-3:30, HU 110. Reading, 6:30-8:00, Faculty Lounge, Humanities Bldg. ' Administrative and Engineering Systems STUDENT ENVIRONMENTAL ALLIANCE. present5 A LECTURE BY A REPRESENTATIVE OF Green peace New England Thursday, November 8 7:30p.m., Hale Hquse Lounge REFRESHMENTS TO BE SERVED OONOORDIENSIS~ November 1, 1979 classifie{)s Colloquium: Ms. Lilliarn Little, Management Development Center, Syracuse University, will speak on The Effect of Achievement Motivation on Creative Problem Solving in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College, on Thursday, November 8, 1979, 4 .p.m. . Traditionally, achievement . motivation has been assumed to be an llilquestionably positive c0mrnodity--the greater the need for achievement' the better, both for the individual and the organization; The theoretical validity of this assumption will be questioned in terms of the effect of the degrees and types of achievement motivation on creative problem .solving. The relevance of creative abilities in management will also be discussed. Faculty, students, and the interested public are .invited to attend. ~ Representat'ive from Ramark-Vardin will be here on campus Nov. 14 & 15 from 9-3 in Strauss Lounge. Looking for a roommate spring term? I'm returning from a term abroad and need a place to sublet. Call Sally at 377- 2694. The Hudson-Mohawk Hand- weavers Guild Annual Sale- Weaving & -Spinning Demon- strations, Sunday, Nov. 11, 1979, 11 a.m. to ~ p.m. at the Schenectady Jewish Com- munity Center, 2565 Balltown Rd., Schenectady. Free Admission. Flannel Shirts at incredible prices! Chamois-cloth or extra- heavyweight flannels only $10 apiece or 2 for $18. Regular weight flannels only $6 or 2 for $10. Buy now, supplies are running low. On sale in Car- negie Hall this Friday or call Harry at 382-8130. A-partment needed for winter term-One or two girls returning from term abroad need apart- ment. Call 6008 or 6866. LOST & FOUND FOUND: Young female cat, brown and black calico mix. For more info write throu&h Survey. • • Continued from page 2 vacations, or creates dif- ficulties with regard to social interaction with students at- tending other colleges. Respondance to the survey reflected. a complete• cross- section of the student body. There were 135 responses from Greeks and 306 responses from independents; every major dormitory and seven Greek houses were surveyed. The respondance also reflected every academic major within 3 percent of the number of majors in each academic division (Humanities, Social Sciences, Natural Sciences, Engineering). Although there were a slightly greater per- centage of freshman respon- dents, freshman responses were almost identical to uppeJ;\class r.espondance )Vithin 2.5 percent. The organizers of the survey entitled~ Blitzkriege Survey' Inc., are planning a follow-up survey some time during the next three weeks. The follow up survey will concern a more complicated issue .froin the students' perspective: Should the academic calendar be changed so that the Fall Term . starts earlier and the Spring Term ends earlier? :.,.~ _·-r~ : .. - ....... ~ .• t:.\ ·~· ·· Box 751. The Union Arts banner and flagpole are MISSING again. These are the personal pro!'>erty of Prof. Bush . and should be returned. Life is hard· enough for the Arts without being ripped off, too. LOST: One gray-brown checkered cap--of great sen- timental value. If found, call 372-1858. PLACEM-ENT Saint Andrew & Society of the State of New York--Offers · graduate scholarships to Scotlan<f. Application deadline: February 1, 1980. Write to the Secretary of the Society, 281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010. Hughes Aircraft Company-: offers 100 fellowships for graduate study in Engineering, Computer Science, Applied Math and Physics. Write to Maryann McCullough, Cor- porate Fell()wship Administrator; Hughes Aircraft Cp .. , Culver City, California . 90230. Operations Crossroads Africa, Inc.--Offers summer work, travel, study program. See Yungwha Min for further · information. Advertising Women of New APO. • • Continued' from page 8 Alpha Phi Omega ls a national service fraternity with over 350 chapters at colleges all over the ~ountry. Its 'motto is \Be a Leader, Be a Friend, Be of Service\ and at R.P.I. it certainly does accomplish this. They run the lost and found, a used book exchange, and also put together a student register. · They built a playground site-for the married students dormitory areas and alsn run the Meanest Man on Campus competition. Alpha Phi Omega not only serves the R.P.I. campus but also extends its services to the Troy Com- munity. The fraternity is traditionally very active in Scouting and sponsors a local Scout troop. They also run a Swimoree for Scouts each-year. They are also involved with the Troy Times Record Clothe-A Child Program. Other projects · have stressed working with high .. school students, kids and people in nursing homes. Some of the activities that Alpha Phi Omega sponsors at RPI and Troy are taken care of at Union by various other organizations. This however, does not mean that there isn't a place for this group here. There are plenty of voids that APO could fill within Union or Schenectady. Since Alpha Phi Omega is a service fraternity they do not have a chapter house. The fraternity has been co-ed since 1976. The fraternity has formal rituals and traditions like the social fraternities· on f;ampus but this does not mean that fraternity and sorority mem- bers cannot join. They are welcome to join. APO also has their own social program at RPI which includes . parties, intramural teams, formal dinners, overnight trips etc. On Friday, November 2nd the RPI students will again come to Union. This time they will be doing a service project for us, to give people a chance to see them in action. They will be outside Carnegie at about 2:30 and are willing to answer any questions or talk to any students interested in forming a chapter at Union .. York 1 Inc:--announces ·· the Annual Coll~ge Career Con- ference in opportunities in Pete-Where did you get that box for the tag? We know it wasn't yours. . Cobes ..... You want $8,0001 Tell -me about it. . advertising, copywriting·, production, ·market research and publishing. Meet the professionals on Satur(jay, December 2, at Pace University in. New York City. For details see Yungwha Min at PCR. . ., ·FOR SALE Hyde Figure Skates-- . Woman's size 7. All leather, excellent condition,. only a year old. Asking $50. Call 6814, · PE~SONALS With a bit of a mind trip, you're into the time slip, and nothing, can ever be the sam~ Debbie-Information on the whereabouts of your little yellow ereatures can be gotten · by reciting the opera \othello\ in its entitety five times outside of White Tower Friday night at 12. THE W.H.A. UVES! ! ! T-Don't try to forget 9~27 because we won't let you. Charris-Here is the personal . YO!l were so afraid of getting. Pete, Lee and Joe-Hellava · party! I showed-up but where was everyone else. Pete-FIJI was semi~formal. Lee-Cute underwear. Bob-Drive much? Nott ••• · Continued from .page 6 cessive librarians continually struggled to overcome the structure's limitations and ~ adapt it better ta the needS of a rapidly growing facility.\ The College considered building a new library as -early as 1930; · .. and in 1936 Frank Bailey (class of 1885; underwrote the $24,000 cost .of improving the facility in tile Nott. In order to achieve a desire to increase. the library's c~pacity from fifty thousand to one · hundred thousand volumes, and tQ increase seating ·from one hundred and forty to one hwi- dred and ninety four places, the basement was finally utilized. ThEtlibrary moved out in 1961 when the new Schaffel.' Library was completed, artd in 19&2 the Mountebanks took over the building and converted. the ground floor into a theater. The student theater organization had control of the -building until early this year when the Arts Department took the Nott away from them. · The edifice passed its cep- tennial year ·1ast November; there was no mention of the event. We . wish the Nott Memorial a happy 101. ·Apocalypse. • • ~ , Continued from page 5 marked with the footprints of one which is worth the price of Kurtz before him. admission on its surface merits The final portion of the movie alone.' arrives and Willard is not able The acting performances are to fulfill his act blindly. Instead, all solid without -exception; one he opts to question his actions can only take exception with the when the awaited confrontation faults :qf the written parts. occurs. The ending of the Kudos to a very-hard-working movie, panned by critics and Sheen, a powerfully present public alike 1 departs from the Brando (but is it worth 3 hectic warinto the \heartland\ million?) an·d fine parts done by of Kurtz's camp, into the depths Duvall, Hopper and Bottoms .. of both Kurtz's and Willard's The screenplay, written by souls. Coppola's script tries to Coppola and John Milius (with address the \heavy\ issues of help in the stretch from Michael morality, sanity, power and war \Dispatches\ Herr), falls down at this point. Its success . is at times with \hokey\ dialogue debatable, the action is passive, and a narration that I fee] could and the movie seems to slow have been done in some other down. Willard is kept by Kurtz way. The movie is two,..and•a- to do him the favor of hearing half hours long and some of the his. tale, before being allowed to gr~y scene ''rubs\ stay blank eventually kill him. · · The too l?ng for comf()rt, making the audience, like Willard; has to mov1e seem 'llong enough\'. But play al:ong with this· ritual of then again, ·the overextended regicide but only after we h~ar length of the film leads to yet Kurtz' war tirade and see the another . comparison with the .powerful image· of Brando's ·original war. · shaven head. The confession is Coppola, I feel, maJtes poor . a fasci!lflting piece of soliloquoy us~ of ;the \ey~s\ . metapbor but yet, it fails to allow-a true throughout the :rriovie, 'pushing sympathy for Kurtz to develop Sheen's fascinating pair past· from the audience. Willard, their effectiv-eness. On the other however, manages to identify hand, his use of The Doors' with Kurtz while the audience, I song, \The End\ is more ef;.. feel, wants to share in that fective than I had imagined it experience. Here is where might be. The score for the Coppola's earlier choice against movie was co-written by audience identification with Coppola and his famous flutist characters hurts him. The lack father, Carmine. of real identification deadens Horrors, horrors. Coppola the thrill of the eventual ritual goes out on a limb. Yes, the transfe:r:,ence of power via death movie is filled with horrors. from Kurtz to Willard. Without Still, better than any movie I've emotional ties, the audience _seen, it shows how life,death, loses the subtleties of later evil and go~d b~come one under intellect. the confusing auspices of war. I suspect that I will see the The .film is worth seeing, like it movie again in tirile,. whether to or not, and I recommend it dwell on the pure visual spec- highly. It is truly a movie to be tacle again of to try to better seen for the experience of the understand the movie from a movie itself, Coppola's ad~ more scrutinizing glance. 'The mirable attempt to effectively cinematography was absolutely explore the horrors of war. All superb and it is easy to see told, I respect the' effort he where a lot of the money went. shows us as '~Apocalypse Now\. On the -level of total externals, At • the Hellman Theatre, its simply a grand-scale ex- Washington Avenue, Albany; travaganza of a war movie, and Student Rates - $2. 75. -.o.w._~ --.;,. \'.1: ~..-, _, -·~ :·,- \ 11 \'-~·w .... ~· ll1· .. ~~- .. ~:'11'»~·t'\\\:;.i\~::=;.Y~-:!;.~o:..·.\'-· .. '•·':f<...:t.;w;-.:;,.;,,,,;:_'\rl ';(\,,...,.~>,h.' ....... '} .. • _.,.~~:lV'_l:\-t:\ '•(;~~-.p.':l/;~~11(\:·.\'\>.>i..:r:Fr!:\'-~' c;,r_..··,.~-.~~;!; ~ ,,.· -- Nl~ - v The has rr even sched match Frida agaim Comn wornei NIAC take 1 Willia1 volley Union Russe Aside conter an· e1 Union. Sage,, beat, them and sl seasor high j colleg1 apiece total. two- t playof be aw and tv The· out if t: Cra Ayr Da1 I • II ( G h< re its ef•, di To an au an Gc ba re~ Sis We Me Un Off 17: Sci

OONOOBDIBNSJS# November 1, 19'19 Page 11 NIAC- Tour~ey Bid: VoUeybciU Won't -Go Down The Womens 'volleyball team has much to look forward to even though the regularly scheduled Intercollegiate matches ended victoriously last Friday with a double win against New Paltz and Dutchess Community College The women are seeded first in the NIAC tournament which Will take place Novembe~ third at Williams. The competmg teams volleying for the .trophy bes.ide Union are WHhams. Smtth, Russel Sage and Mt. Holoyoke; Aside from Mt. Holyoke, the contending teams will present an· enormous challenge to Union. Williams, Smith and Sage will be difficult clubs to beat; however if Union enters the matches with the attitude and skills they've displayed all season, they're bound to place high in the tournament.- The · colleges will play two gan. ~s apiece and compile a win-loss total. If there is a tie between two- teams, a fifteen-p.oint playoff will follow. Trophies Will- be awarded to the number one and two teares. The volleyball team will f~d out if they_. have ~ade Division III New York State tournament and what they are seeded if selected, on November fifth. The tournament will take place November ninth and tenth in Buffalo. · This past Friday has helped· psych the teann for the tour- naments, especially because their record now stands at 15-2. The Dutchess Community College team, comprised of dyn<tmic power hitters ·won the first game of the match 11•15. Dutchess Community had trouble receiving Union's powerf!ll serves in the second and third matches which Union wonl5-10, 15-9 respectively. The following match against New Paltz was fairly easy compared to the demands of the preceding match. Union had their second victory of the day by beating the home team 15-10, 15-9 in this strictly officiated game. The next two weeks will be very exciting ones for the Union Women's Volleyball team. How will they do in the tournaments? Support. your Volleyball team 'and .find out! ~·············································· 1: - .. \ ill ! RPI Concert Board presents : • • • ill il ,. ~ · Je.fferson Starship ~ il ill ! at the RPI fie!dhouse on : il • • ill i Sunday, No.v. 18 at 8:00p.m. t • • i< . f • ! Tickets go on sale on Thursday, Nov. 1 at all ! ! Ticketrons for $8.50 each. The Group features: : i< • : Craig Chaqu{co Paul Kantner ! ! Aynsley Dunbar Pete Sears ! ! David Freiberg Mickey Thomas ! i< • ! For more information, ca II 270-6262 or 272-6505 ! i< • ·············································~ - Jill Thomson sends one back. Benefit Hockey Game Union vs. Colgate .. - Sat. Nov. 3 at 8:00 p.m. Proceeds to BLOCK \U\ ATHLETIC SOC,IETY General Admission $2.00 Tickets on sole now at AchHies Rink ...-' ·Volunteers needed to serve on PARENTS WEEKEND COMMinEE Applications in Student Activities Office First Floor Carnegie . Field Hockey · Continued fram pager 1 not have time to replace the empty spot left vacant in the tournament. Therefore the eighth seeded team automaU<:!ally made it into the semi-finals and could not place lower than fourth. Lets Talk About Your Career . After heal\ing about the disqualification, the field hockey team was un- derstandably upset, confused in Sales Engineering, Product Development, or Opera~ with Gould . Gould Inc., a Fortune 200 multinational manufacturing firm, has grown to over $2 billion in sales based on its apili.ty to recognize the needs of the industrial ll]arketplace, draw upon its proprietary technology to design products to be produced efficiently in its plants, and market this flow of new. products directly through its own sales force. To continue Gould's ten-year record of marketing, production, and design successes (Which include the Maintenance Free automotive battery, the U.S. Navy Mark 48 torpedo system,> and an Electric Vehicle Fleet operated by the U.S. Postal Service), Gould needs highly trained, aggressive, and innovative bachelors level engineers to· assume entry-level responsibilities .in the Electrical Products Group. Sign up for an Interview. We will be on campus: Monday, November 5 Union College Of.fice of Career Resources & Placement 17South Lane Schenectady, New York 12308 Equal Opportunity Employer MIFIH . . ~ We wishto'talk with electrical, industrial, and,mechanical engineering graduates ready to begin a \hands-on\ training program involving most aspects of the development. production, and sale ofelectrical products ranging from miniature components to heavy-duty switchgear. Sign up at your career center or contact us directly: David S. Pince/Personnel Representative Gould Inc:., Electrical Products Group 60 Gould Center Rolling Meadows, IL 60008 Call (collect): (312) 981-5014 -} GOULD An Electrical/Electronics Company .., and frustrated. The team had an outstanding season record of 8-1-1. Their only defeat was at the sticks of Oneonta, a Division II team. They played every game, knowing that a win would be a stepping stone towards the state tournament. The winning did not stop up to the day that the team was informed of their number one seed in the tour- nament. Then the phone rang, a meeting was called and an announcement of the disqualification was made to the team. In spite of the distressing news, the women knew that they had to continue their winning streak. A game was scheduled for the following afternoon against Skidmore. The contest against Skidmore was both emotionally charged and victorious. Ms. Morrison was extremely proud of the way her team handled the entire situation. She believes that they exhibited a. great deal of character and maturity. Ms. Morrison as well as the entire campus have great pride in the Union women's field hockey team-:.they will always be munber one.

;page 12 OONOORDIENSIS, November 1, 1979 a porte Rooters Eye NCAA Bid by ,\HKE CANNING Senior 'Chris Walsh scored with eleven seconds remaining in Saturday's game to lead Union to a 2-1 victory over Marist College. Walsh, a · lineman, took a beautiful 40~ yard pass off of a direct kick from Mike Mulpeter an.d, leaping high over the Marist defense, headed the ball into th~ corner of the goal. It was Walsh's first career goal aqd kept the Dutchmen in the running for an NCAA bid. Union quickly fell behind as a Marist ~orner kick rolled past the Union defense and was pushed into the goal by a Marist forward. But the Dutchmen came back. Keith Miller's penalty kick midway through thr first half was wide of the mark, but the team kept the pr8Ssure on the Marist .defense and, with ten minutes remaining in the half, tied the score. On an indirect kick, Miller tappet! the ball to Jim Stoothoff, who blasted the ball into the upper corne.r of the goal. The half ended with the · score deadlocked at ·1-1. ..._ In the second half, a strong Dutchman defense repelled all Marist scoring attempts. The trio of Mike Mulpeter, Jamie Hilton,. and Pete Cholakis once more played an outstanding game. Although neither team could score, play was Sports Happenings Nov. l-Nov. 7 Varsity Football Varsity Soccer Cross Country Women's Volleyball Varsity Hockey Nov. 3 at Middlebury Nov. 3 at Rochester Nov. 6 vs. Oneonta Nov. 3 N.Y. States at Binghamton Nov. 3 NIAC Tourn. at Williams Nov. 3 vs. Colgate dominated by. rnidfielders Brian Shea,. Jim Stoothoff, and John Krum. It appeared that the game was going to go into overtime when Walsh took Mulpeter's pass and ended the game with his dramatic last sec<md head ball. The Union bench emptied and ran onto the field to congratulate the for- ward. The Dutchman .hooters have two games remaining before bids for the NCAA tournament are Pxtended. There is a tight race for the three bids to be offered and should the Dut- chmen defeat Binghamton and Rochester, they should be in solid conten.tion for their second straight NC~A bid. Football by RICH IJOPE Senior Rick Walter booted three field goals and Stu Beath went 43 yards after an in- terception to provide most of the scoring as Williams made it· eleven straight over Union last Saturday. Williams had been shut out in their previous three outings, but seemed to have no trouble generating offense X-Country looks To States The Union cross-country team finished a disappointing 8th in a field of 19 at the Albany State Invitational Saturday. The Dutchmen ended with a team score of 169 points, far behind the 89 point total of Southeast Massachusetts, tlie team champions. The University of Massachusetts finished second with Albany State third. Siena's Torn Dalton remained unbeaten this fall with an easy thirty second win over race runner-up Rick Trainer of Hartwick. Union's top finisher in the 150 man field was Adam Licht. Licht finished 22nd, closely followed by freshman teammate John Casalff) in the 29th position. The remainder of the Union pack finished in a close bunched group. Pete Vielkind finished 36th, with Ed Arnheiter 38th. Dave Dellehunt, Jack Connor and Tom Hallenbeck finished within a dozen seconds of each other in the mid 50's. Casale has shown continued improvement in each race this fall and ran perhaps his ·best race of the season at Albany. The outgoing freshman ex- pressed confidence in his performance at the State Championships this Saturday. Casale said,_ \I c.an't wait, I've been training for the State Meet all year.\ He then quipped, \I'd say I'm ready to run with the big dogs\. · Although the Union junior varsity finished far back in the team standings,· several in- dividual runners turned in strong performances. Joe Londa finished 11th · after running with the leaders for the first three miles, while team- mate Dennis Conteis added a 16th place finish to the team standings. 90 runners competed in the JV race. The women's team completed their inaugural season with a 10th place finish in the women's race. Dartmouth College took the team championship with 47 points. · Inge Stockman again lead the squad with a 16th place finish. Joan O'Connor and Danielle Cherniak were the next Dut- chmen to finish, both placing in the mid 30's. _ The invitational completed the season for the men's junior varsity and women's teams .. The men's varsity competes at the State Championships at Binghamton Saturday a~d then finishes up its season With the Division III regionals the next week. · Kevin Frederick catches the lone touchdown. Senior Jamie Hilton moves the baH upf.ield. Loses Again . ,.. against the Dutchmen. Union's offense left much to be desired, gaining only 75 yards on the ground and 124 yards passing. Williams' defense keyed on running back Rich Romer and, as a result, Kevin Frederick and Dana Johnston did the bulk of the running. Johnston was suc- cessful in the air to Henry Wright, wbo gained 63 yards for the day, but as so often the story this year, the Dutchmen couldn't seem to connect on the big play. Williams jumped out to a quick lead in the first quarter when Rick Walter connected on the first of his three field goals to make it 3-0. Uhion had no real scoring thveat in the first quarter. The second quarter saw Williams score their first touchdown on a fourteen-yard run by Williams back, Dave Massucco. Union rushed to the Williams nine yard line in the closing minutes of the half, but · time ran out as Union at-_ tempted to set up for a Dan May field goal, leaving the halftime score Williams 10 and Union 0:- Union did little to change the momentum of the game in the second half. Williams continued to look strong on both offense and defense, getting another field goal in the third quarter and adding a touchdown and a field goal in the fourth neriod before Union reached- the scoreboard. The Dutchemn&' only s·core carne in the closing minute when · second string qua-r- terback, · fr.eshman Steve ·Nowak, connected on a 36-yard completion to Kevin Eberly to the WilJ.iai'ns 11, and one p1ay later threw to Kevin· Frederick in the endzone. May added the extra point to make the final score 23~7. Williams running backs Dave Massucco and Jay Wheatley combined for 127 yards on 32 carries and sophQ~ore quar- terback John Lawler connected on 10' of 18 passing attempts for 113 yards and five first ,downs. Union travels to Middlebury next week in hopes of redeeming themselves .and improving their 2-4 record. Middlebury is 4-2. EXTRA POINTS: 'Henry Wright caught six passes Saturday, upping his season .. total to 17. Wright leads the team in receptions. Freshman quarterback Steve Nowak showed good form Saturday, completing six of nine passes on the way to Union's only touchdown. J.V. Soccer 6-1-1 . by' JAY KEARNS J. V. soccer finished its season with an impressive 5-0 win over Siena's varsity team. The win followed a heartbreaking loss· to Hartwick on thursday.· Union was in complete control throughout the contest, out- shooting Siena 25-5. Billy Fay opened the scoring early in the first half and it proved to be all Union needed. Rob Quish, Ed Nalbandein, Bill Osgood, and Frank Murphy all added in- surance goals. Coach ·John McNamarC!'s team finished 6-1-1, which brought his two-year coaching record to 12-2-1. The only two losses came at the hands of soccer power Haf!wick. Un!on . played even up with Hartw1ck most of the way on Thursday until a Union defender ac- cidentally knocked the ·ball into Union'S net mid-way through the second half. Union dominated the last ten ininu~cs of play, but failed to score. Several J. V. players had outstanding years. Freshman Frank Shotina and sophomore · Jeff Martin had excelient campaigns as fullbacks, and were much responsible for Union's tight defense. which allowed only eight goals all year. Sophomore forward Ed Nalbandein was the J.V.'s main offensive weapon, leading the team in goals and assists, finishing with 12 points .(5 goals, 2 assists). Co-captain halfback Bobby Fox had a sparkling year as one of the team's steadiest players. _ The success of the J .V. team this year shows the strength of the soccer program here at Union. Many J. V. players would be varsity caliber at -other schools. Soccer's success is something that Union student'S, faculty, and alumni can be proud of, hopefully for many years to come. - Vol - l ( Se Ur Pr u. ca dr In M fa H< Pi C£ be is~ as -St E; U1 M mi ah to u. m• ye gr, tri Gt ('0 de . nu Bo ar' bu ad ('0 na be ad of sw a VI C'Ol C'Ol Ge ] ha re: wt Ho thr. sa Of! ( Bo thE u. Tl E

. . - . -· Founded at ljnion College /877 VoL 109, N-o._ 8 Schenectady, New York Dr .. Bourne Speaks Carter And U.N· •. Discussed by P ~UL FElNSOT Dr. Peter Bourne, Assistant Secretary General with the · United Nations Development f!rogramme, -ceordinating the U.N. Water Decade, was on campus t.ast Thursday ad- dressing a group from the Institute of Administration and Managemen.t, and other faculty. The former White House Special Assistant to President' Gart~r granted Concordiensis an interview before his talk~ As a spedalh~t in Health tssues, Dr. Bourne has served as a member of the United · sational events, such as when someone like Castro comes to speak.\ He eontends that this overshado,ws the day-to-day work. There nave been major accomplishments for the quality of lHe in.the world as a· result of this work through the efforts .of UNICEF. SmaUpox disease was systematically eradicated from the face of the earth, and as Dr. Bourne stated, \this is the first disease with which this has. been ac- complished.'' He related that as a ronsequence.of this, the initial feeling that UNICEF was too idealistic has since changed considerably to a belief that there can be \great strides\ lll;ide through the program. Dr. Bourne commented that there is Iikely to be cooperation with respect t() the World Hunger .issue. The goal of the program is te end the problem of worldwide hunger by the end of the century. Dr. 8ourne recognizes that since the proauction of food continues to go up ( an(:l with tne populatien now beginning to level off), ·these goals are not impossible. However, he reminded us that at present ''there are still a biHion people in the world with inadequate food, water, shelter, and· health, A man in India who is the poorest farmer is still in Continue~ on page 13 Administratite Pos.it.ion Created: Thursday, Nov. 8-, 1979 Assistant Secretary: General, Dr. Peter Bourne -States·_ Delegation to . the Executive Board Meeting of UNICEF, and the World Health.,., Assembly, the U.N. Com- mission on Narcotic Drugs, and. also headed the U.S. Delegation .to the Governing Council of the U.N. Development Program- ~ me: He _ related that several years ago the U.N. permitted \a group of seventy-seven coun- tries to enter the United Nations General Assembly. These c·otmiries, which are less developed countries, now Operations Officer Appointed _ number eighty-eight.\ Dr. Bourne indicated that \some are pro-Soviet, such as Cuba, - but others favor the U.S.\ He added that most of these were rohmies to the developed nations, and that . once they became indepenqent they were admitted to the U.N. This influx of lesser developed countries swayed ·U.N. policy interest away from the developed countries, as the l.d.c. 's now constitute a majority in the General Assembly. - Dr. Bourne said that .there have been proposals recently to restructure the U.N., \one of which is analogous to the U.S. House and Senate.\ He also said that the developing nations are satisfied with the current organization. One particular point that Dr. Bourne feels strongly about is the fact that \the focus on the U.N. is too much on the sen- by DOUG ROSENFELD A new administrative position, that of Director of Campus ·Operations, has been rreated at Union, accerding to Mr. John Hause!', UColl's Vice President of Finance and - Administration. The respon- sibilities of this \senior management p.osition,\ as Hauser C'alls it, will be assumed by Mr. Jack Hill, a 53-year-old employee of SUNY at New Paltz, where he has been the Director of Physical Plant for almost twelve years. As Director of Campus Operations, Hill will be charged with the ·•overall responsibility for the Physical Plant and Security and Safety Operations\ at Union, Hauser sa'id. Hill is expected to take up the reins_ of his office on Dec. 3 of this year; but _the matter of where his office will be located is as yet unresolved. According t,o Hauser, \two things prompted us to move in the direction\ of appoin~ing a Director of Campus Operations. The c-reation of the new post is The Union College Varsity- Soccer team booted their way to an ECAC bid this past week (Story on back page). first a response, Hauser stated, to the \deficiency of management in the Physical Plant area and also in the Security and Safety a:tea.\ :Soth of these departments have demonstrated inefficiency in their \overall setting of priorities,\ Hauser said, as the departments' lack of ex- perience in \in-depth· budgeting; priority setting in work projects; and measurements and en- forcement of employee per- formance.\ As a second major impetus for the creation of the new director's post, H;:mser' cited a \lack of coordination\ between the Physical Plant and Security departments. The need for a coordinating director of the Physical Plant and Maintenance departments \became apparent in the spring term of last year,\ according to Hauser. It was during that spring term that Dean of. Students Robert H. Kellett and Hauser, the two who originally conceived of the idea, received endorsements from then-Acting President Norman P. Auburn and Prof. Joseph Macciarello, Chairman of the Middle States Drafting Committee on College Maintenance. · When the cOllege began to advert~ise for the position at the \end of June and early July,\ the search was for a candidate with the \two important qualities\ of \management experience and experience in physical plant operations in particular.\ Applications from •·over 16\ people were sub- mitted, said Hauser, but the college finally .settled upon Hill because, according to Hauser, \in Jack Hill We were fortunate in finding_ both qualities we were looking for. He is the kind of person that we need for the job.\ The job experience that qualifies Hill for the director's post is, Hauser demonstrated, wide-ranging. Hauser explained that, among other things, Hill has worked on· a number of renovation and construction projects; has coordinated projects; has handled bids; has worked in budgeting and in ·Forum Convenes: energy conservation programs; has established a preventative maintenance program; and is experienced•in'C~Uilioations systems. Prior to his ap- pointment as Director of Physical Plant at SUNY at New Paltz, Hill served as Plant Superintendent at the Willowbrook State Hospital in Staten Island, N.Y. Before Willowbrook, Hill was Main- tenance Supervisor at the Highland Training School in Highland, New York. \No additional budget costs\ will be, incurred by the college as a result of the appointment of Hill, Hauser stated. \No ad- ditional staff will be hired,\ as Hill will receive any necessary \secretarial or clerical assistance out of existing staff,\ and Hill's salary will be taken from a \combination of two currently unfilled positions.\ The two unfilled positions from which Hill's salary will be drawn consist of \one staff position in the Physical Plant department which had not been Continued on page 13 Mounteb·a~nks Issue-Ends by ANDREW WISOFF The Student Forllffi convened at its regularly scheduled time on Monday evening to discuss a . wide variety of subjects. Among the items discussed were the di&tJosition of the student ac- tivities-purchased equipment irt the Nott Memorial, the Independent Student Coalition:s upc()_ming legislative con- ference, two student activities insurance-related problems, a report concerning the projec· tion fa~ilities currently being used by the Film Cqmmittee, and two reports from the Committee on Committees. Stemming from the recent demise of the Mountebanks as a student activity, the Forum was confronted with th~ ,question as to what should be done with the many thousands of dollars worth of theater equipment presently situated in the Nott Memorial. Although the Mountebanl~;:s is no longer an operating student activity rontributing to the theater program, the Arts Department now produces . its own rurriculum-related theater productions in the Nott Memorial. -These productions continue to offer ex:· tracurricular participation. A proposal dealing with the \.equipment usage anomaly\ was presented to the Forum for consideration. The same proposal l)ad also been sub- mitted earlier to the P.resident of the Student Forum, the Dean of Students, and Professors Smith and Bush of the Art~ Department, for their approval. After some discussion~ the Forum voted to dispose of all of the former Mountebanks' equipment (except those items presently situated in Carnegie Hall) by \relinquish(ing) all claims of title, ownership, and- or responsibility, to which the Student Forwn might be en- titled, ... (and to) transfer all such claims to the Arts Department, tmder the Dean of Faculty's responsibility cen· ter.\ In consideration, the Art~ Department has already agreed to a'' good faith assurance., that all of the equipment · fonnerly purchased with student ac- tivities money will \be made Continued tiD page 13

Page 2 , OONOORDIBiNSIS, Noveftibe~ 8~. 1919 ,· Editorial One Arts Pr·of. In Search Of A Leading \Man Tomorrow night, Friday, Nov. 9, marks the opening night of the Arts Department's dramatic production of Luigi Pirandello's work, Six Characters In Searck Of An Author. While it is true that the Arts struggle hard enough for recognition at Union without having heaped upon them additional unwarranted criticism, there is one aspect of this upcoming play which, it would ·seem, warrants criticism very much. It has come to the attentiqn of Concordiensis that the director of the play, in casting parts, somehow ended up assigning the lead role to a graduate of Union who, apparently, is being paid as an \artist in residence\ while involved with the play. Why, it must be asked, is the major part in a dramatic production at Union not being played by an undergraduate student? If the Arts at Union are in such nasty shape as to necessitate the recruitment of outsiders to staff our dramatic productions, it would seem that an evaluation of the role that Arts are to play at Un~on is no longer to be avoided. We must either establish a. strong drama program and seek out ·students to populate it, or we must surrender the drama here to mediocrity or extinction. But the stopgap measure of peopling our productions with graduates should not be allowed to continue. If the problem in this: particular play war; that there is no student here qualified to assume a major leading role, why then was a play selected that required just such a leading man? Would it not have been possible for the Arts Department to . produce a play which demanded less of any single actor? Is the range of possibilities- in drama really so small as to have' mandated that Union Drama produce Six Oharac· ters? Or'i's it really only the rang~ of possibilities as conceived of by the mind of the director which is so limited? , The commitment of everyone involved with the play to the production of a successful event is not to Qe doubted. The weeks of public advertisements, in- cluding the massive Pirandello portraits which now hang at the fronts of the Nott Memorial and Carnegie Hall, are visible evidence of that commitment; and they are not even representative of the behind-the- scenes (no pun intended) efforts which have .been expended in the interest of the production. The commitment of the play's director to the production itself and to drama at Union in general is also not suspect. It would appear, however, that in his zeal to produce good dramatic Art at Union, he has to an extent neglected the interests of the College's drama students. 'Art for art's sake' is a fine maxim for use as guidance when conducting an Arts program, but it loses its appeal when Union Arts is lost in the shuffle. C!tonror Editors-in-Chief News Editor Features Editor Layout Editors Sports Editor ·Photo Editor Assistant Men's Sports Editor Women's SportS Editor Photo Editor ·Arts Editors Calendar Photo Staff Copy Editor Classifieds Staff Business Manager Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons Paul Feinsot Sue~Barnhart Rachel Mandel., Danny Wojnilower Mark Palomba Pat Wright RichHo~ Barb Plotkill'. Pat Wright: Steve Monosson, Cindy Aranow · Ellen Berger, Maria Manfredonia David Plantz, Jeff Steinberg Eliim Van Dyke Roberta Moss Mitch Chess, Karen Covey Carole Reinig CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student . bOdy of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehann~ Publications,. Inc., 8¥2 R_eynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter .. subscription rate: 35 cents ,per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the lll.hited States. . . Com:mentar_y: ''We Shall Not- Surrender '' by RlCHARD A. SIMONS The issue of the Palestine Liberation Organization rP.L.O.) is one which has been receiving a great deal of at· tention recently. Just a few weeks ago, Fidel Castro ad· dressed the United Nations General Assembly. Castro spoke of modern Israel and its relationship with the P.L.O. and drew a parallel between the Nazi Regime and the leaders of the Jewish State. The most upsetting thing concerning this unfounded and ludicrous statement is that it brought a prolonged round of applause from the General Assembly. This growing sentiment that the P.L.O. should be recognized as an instrumental party in the Middle East peace .process is su\.{tidal to that process. The P.:L.O. should be recognized, but recognized for what it truly is: a terrorist organization advocating the use of terrorism and blackmail in its fight to eliminate the democratic State of Israel. The . P.L.O. has dedicated itself to' achieN'ing recognition through terrorist activities. It was the P.L.O. that ambushed and killed a busload of school children. It was the P~L.O. that murdered moderate Arabs to prevent them from openly supporting the Israeli-Egyptian negotiations. It was the P.L.O. that slaughtered eleven Israeli athletes in the Munich Olym- pics. And it was the P.L.O. that opened fire in Lod Airport killing numerous civilians. These are just some of the accomplishments of Yasir Arafat's organization. The involvement of the United States in the Middle East peace treaty resulted in an additional strategy ofthe P.L.O. Shafik Al- Hout, the P.L.O. chief in Beirut declared that the best wa'l to deal with the U.S. woUld be to :''.encourage the oil:.producing :countries to a·· 1pt a lloli<!Y that would really influence the economics of the U.S. If these countries were to reduce their oil production or raise their oil prices, then the interests of the American Citizen would be harmed and he would ask why\ (NY Times, Je 11 3:1). The P.L.O. is earnestly trying to blackmail us into abandoning the peace treaty, Egypt, and Israel and into recognizing the P.L.O. recognition would be absolutely deleterious for U.S. foreign policy. Submitting to blackmail would merely display the cowardice of our country. Trading our democratic principles for oil would show that we are vulnerable to black- mail and as a mlhirnum, would force us to consent to P.L.O. That was America's W1th every word the P l 0 uller\-l lhfJY maka '' oear they w•ll do anyth1ng to 'abotag\ the Mideast pea€e proem)~ T hoy thrcaton, to IJluw up sh1ps 1n 1he Hormuz Sha1t and &f(Jp Oil from reachmg our shores They. want Amer1ca 10 recoqnue them Wh1le they murder diplomats. 1n Be1rul ancJ Khartoum How can Amencans be expectod to·rcr.oqmlf~ 1h1s fanatiCal group of terronst& arm&d and trarn<id 1n Russ1a? Terronsts whose covenant prom<>e& the bloody soveriegnty over the West Bank and GRr.a. Our efforts should lie in the area of getting Saudi Arabia and Jordan to join Anwar Sadat in the Arab world, not in submitting to the terrorist blackmail of the P.L.O. The fact that Israel is the only rountry in the Middle East that is based on the· same democratic ideals that we are and that the P.L.O. is com- pletely antithetical to these democratic ideal.s is rea~on enough for us to deny recognition. It is imperative that we realize exactly what the P .L.O. stands for so that we may begin to voice our olr jection and clearly state that we shall not surrender to its aims. . / ' destruction of Israel wllosn ro~der~ threahm us ' w•tll an 011 embargo whosP k1llcrs ·how m ,,med and mUrdP.red 3.600-•nnoconLmen women and c.h1ldren •ntho.tahl 10 years whosc_members donounr e Amom.cqr, tha Arub,world Olll ncJmtnl~lr&JIIOn would be mqkmg f:l ser1ous m•Sirtkt! q•vmq rn to thrcr~t~ ~rom 011·nch counlnes tJy rr~oqn•rmq murderers · L nt o.., friec 11 Arnurrcr~ d1dn f. become lhe qrealest nahan on earth ~>y .fa1!1nq,on ll!t knees and bcqqrng.lor II& l1fa LET'S RECOGNIZE THf P.LO. FOR EXACTLY WHAJ IllS. - T Ac Cond page Unio book the l gu~n right l.) free mem mun: prot« That the ( righ1 in tlii will, they .petr~ a gail CollE 2.) f.ree' tbre: 3.) nbsc 1 in j barr ·L) or ii pers proiJ prop sing! sons en til any piee4 dest1 and Th pose stud1 Unio read freq exar. stitu whic grje, by : weal enfo beco 5 lJ Sk SOf.OJ how mea nigh and Ski.d Jacl whe1 thatt dere wait• then awa; shud Fox, the < dowr shav La frien kille4 His , for s the i1 did 1 res is enteJ Siste1 she her take1 An his rj it-yo1 we s: walk goth then yelle· and. meat be til

Page 2 OONOORDIENSISJ November 8, 1979 Editorial One Arts Prof. In Sear·ch Of A Leading Man Tomorrow night, Friday, Nov. 9, marks the opening night of the Arts Department's dramatic production of Luigi Pirandello's work, Six Characters In Search Of An Author. While it is true that the Arts struggle hard enough for recognition at Union without having heaped upon them additional unwarranted criticism, there is one aspect of this upcoming play which, it would seem, warrants criticism very much. It has come to the attenti()n of Concordiensis that the director of the play, in casting parts, somehow ended up assigning the lead role to a graduate of Union who, apparently, is being paid as an \artist in residence\ while involved with the play. Why, it must be asked, is the major part in a dramatic production at Union not being played by an undergraduate student? If the Arts at Union are in such nasty shape as to necessitate the recruitment of outsiders to staff our dramatic productions, it would seem that an evaluation of the role that Arts are to play at Union is no longer to be a voided. We must either establish a strong drama program and seek out students to populate it, or we must surrender the drama here to mediocrity or extinction. But the stopgap measure of peopling our productions with graduates should not be allowed to continue. If the problem in this particular play wa~; that there is no student here qualified to assume a rna jor leading role, why then was a play selected that required just such a leading man? Would it not have been possible for the Arts Department to produce a play which demanded less of any single actor? Is the range of possibilities·· in drama really so small as to have mandated that Union Drama produce Six Charac- ters? Or is it really only the rang-e of possibilities as conceived of by the mind of the director which is so limited? . The commitment of everyone involved with the play to the production of a successful event is not to be doubted. The weeks of public advertisements, in- cluding the massive Pirandello portraits which now hang at the fronts of the Nott Memorial and Carnegie Hall, are visible evidence of that commitment; and they are not even representative of the behind-the- scenes (no pun intended) efforts which have been expended in the interest of the production. The commitment of the play's director to the production itself and to drama at Union in general is also not suspect. It would appear, however, that in his zeal to produce good dramatic Art at Union, he has to an extent neglected the interests of the College's drama students. 'Art for art's sake' is a fine maxim for use as guidance when conducting an Arts program, but it loses its appeal when Union Arts is lost in the shuffle. Editors-in-Chief News Editor Features Editor Layout Editors Sports Editor Photo Editor Assistant Men's Sports Editor Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Arts Editors Calendar Photo Staff Copy Editor Classifieds Staff Business Manager Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons Paul Feinsot Sue Barnhart Rachel Mandel, DannyWojnilower Mark Palomba Pat Wright Rich Hope Barb Plotkin Pat Wright Steve Monosson, Cindy Aranow Ellen Berger, Maria Manfredonia David Plantz, Jeff Steinberg Ellen VanDyke Roberta Moss Mitch Chess, Karen Covey Carole Reinig CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8% Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the b_g.nited States. Ti) the Campus Community.: e\U the OO:iturs: · · As Chai'rpersuns .ot · the Speakers Forum, wefwooldlike to apologize for the delay in the presentatiuil of 1 'StarTrekking ·with Scott:YH last Tuesday. Unfortunat.ely , the film projeet.ers arrived late. However we would liketo thank Tom ,Peterson and the other\ projectionists for setting up me:K1v. We hope that this delay not inconvenience anyone and that you enjoyed the .program as mudt as we did. Sincerely~ utwemer AtnyW~tehBlt Speakers Poru:tn CO*Cha.wperabn'S . - -= =· ,-::·=\\= ·.r:-:-··=··· t--- Commentary: . ... · t.liscerniitlil(} ;tera~~. viewen,, ean wa:s. · be attribu~a;. ,tg:ithe~ pv.o.jootiolF et' a·J tt(, ~rnttti'V' equipment that. 'the. eommi~tee ' · the~'1P'tirtill:Jse ·-·of. ~e pro.tectttr{! , mb.st . ;11$¢ •. ·.Ttl~-. projeqt~ cJ,tF~' · au~\Wt~l,pr~sent. lns firn:Un~g~. (replaced at the beginning .of· th~ :studentt 1 1llorum on this year) l&nlrn standard ev~ing>NnvembEl'r 12.- .. : projeeto:rrs intended for light In'tha'meanwhile, a ·petttion usage only. and not for the being circulated· screening of fuU~length moti~n eamllU's. requesting . th~t ' · pictUl'es. At first the committee Student Tax Committee g1ve ' envisioned the problem to be a . go•ahead for the purcb'ase of lac:k of pruper ampHfieation;· badly 'needed equipment. Jt and an amplifier was added iir the:\ Film Committee's ttr>l'1n:·'•· an attempt to add clarity,to the belief that M enough studerJts'~l sound, This: however. did· not' sign;tbis pl;}titlon, its cn~mc•~s'Q't''• end the · problem. .After eon*··· ubtai.ning the n·ew·,p· ·1rojlect~1r ferring with the pr(rper be ~atty inereased. . auth~rities th~ eoneJusiorvwas . Maay hdt 1 S> ·of· · d· :tseuss!tonr; r¢1Hlhed, .. that, fl·. eomm.ePiea!· hav~r<be.enput toward <::h<)(}SinJI.ii' pWJti].et!Mlrt~W~$Ssar,y w. $1iJr:ee:n . tb~mpvie& 1 'for winter tev:m·:,,an~w ''We Shall Not Surrender '' by RICHARD A. SIMONS The issue of the Palestine Liberation Organization r P.L.O. l is one which has been receiving a great deal of at- tention recently. Just a few weeks ago, Fidel Castro ad- dressed the United Nations General Assembly. Castro spoke of modern Israel and its relationship with the P.L.O. and drew a parallel between the Nazi Regime and the leaders of the Jewish State. The most upsetting thing concerning this unfounded and ludicrous statement is that it brought a prolonged round of applause from the General Assembly. This growing sentiment that the P.L.O. should be recognized as an instrwnental party in the Middle East peace .process is sui.fj;idal to that process. The P.t:.O. should be recognizeri, but recognized for what it truly is: a terrorist organization advocating the use o( terrorism and blackmail in its fight to eliminate the democratic State of IsraeL The P.L.O. has dedicated itself to 'achieving recognition through terrorist activities. It was the P.LO. that ambushed and killed a busload of school children. It was the P.L.O. that murdered moderate Arabs to prevent them from openly supporting the Israeli-Egyptian negotiations. It was the P.L.O. that slaughtered eleven Israeli athletes in the Munich Olym- pics. And it was the P.L.O. that opened fire in Lod Airport killing numerous civilians. These are just some of the accomplishments of Yasir Arafat's organization. The involvement ofthe United States in the Middle East peace treaty resulted in an additional strategy of the P.L.O. Shafik Al- Hout, the P.L.O. chief in Beirut declared that the best way to deal with the U.S. would be to \ encourage the oil-producing countries to a·· 1pt a policy that would really influence the economirs of the U.S. If these c·ountries were to reduce their oil production or raise their oil prices, then the interests of the American Citizen would be harmed and he would ask why\ !NY Times, Je 11 3:1 ). The P.L.O. is earnestly trying to blackmail us into abandoning the peace treaty, Egypt, and Israel and into recognizing the P.L.O. recognition would be absolutely deleterious for U.S. foreign policy. Submitting to blackmail would merely display the f'Owardice of our l'ountry. Trading our democratic principles for oil would show that we are vulnerable to black- mail and as a mmimum, would force us to consent to P.L.O. soveriegnty over the West Bank and r...<~za. Our efforts should liP in the area of getting Saudi Arabia and Jordan to join Anwar Sadat in the Arab world, not in submitting to the terrorist blackmail of the P.L.O. The fact that Israel is the only r'Ountry in the Middle East that is based on the same democratic ideals that we are and that the P.L.O. is com- pletely antithetical to these democratic ideals is reason enough for us to deny recognition. It is imperative that we realize exactly what the P.L.O. stands for so that we may begin to voice our olr jedion and clearly state that we shall not surrender to its aims. \I chopoff their hands:' .•• Yasir Arafat That was the P. L .. O .. response to America's Mideast peace effort. Wtl~• f-hJ{·ry tfo/IJ•d !hr· Pl () 1lh-·•·, Hu·1 I'• Jk!· • 1 (.Jf'rH thev wrll (jr, <:trl'f'lt•.rrq t\ • .. rtJrJI.-Jqr· H11 M•dP.rl~l fH_•d(f'l pr,,r f·•',<., T tu•y ft•lf•rlll '\ '' 1 '• 1 1 ,..,.. ·JI• ~hrfJ':> rnlhP H!Jtmu,' ':.oi•,Jtl drlf! ~lr,j .. fl\ 1 t•1 11 reach•nq our \i~lOrP'> They·want ArnN•r r:~lo u•rrJqr••!f• UtHTt wturr they murder rJ,plorndl', 1fl HPt'!Jf dmJ Kt1,Jrfr,.Jn• How can Am~r·r ..1n•, 11r• Pllnr>r 11·•! h. rr•• nqnrt~' th•s fanahcal qroup of l1.•rront,.l<.., <lrrTlPrJ dllCllr d•nr>d •r Hu~s•a~) Terrow,t·.., whu~f> r rNPn.tnl prqnH~.,. .. Ua·IJluorJv r]f\ r1f !•,r,Jf'l wlrll'of' li•oHlf'l'-, Urn•,lf •'I ,.._, v .. n:t• .-m rul f•rnti.Hr¥' WIH1~1· krllf·r~ h,JV•' m .rn1Po1 .n1rj mu•rfl'•rr .. •1 3 hOIJ rntliJfl•nl rn£'n V•o'Onlf'n ,:11111 dttldlf'/llrl lt11• lr:t<,! 10 Y''dt•, Wl'ln..,f' nJpmhPI'> l]f•IHHinf ,. Artu•rl( ri lrllhr· Ar,JtJ Wttrlr1 ( )tH o~rJm•rn...:lrdhon Wlrtrlr1 h1• rntkrnq ,, <.,prrou.., rtto·,l.tkl' •Jr,tiiHJrn 1(1 ltlff•,ll·. horn or; nrh r rJUil!ri£'<., hy rt·t orji1•/HIIJ numll'rPr•. l f•t•, 1.!0• 11 A•nrorot .r drr.Jr,l bf'c ornl' !liP qrl',JIPt.,l no~tron on f•dtllt hy I,Jihnq on rl•, k.nPt•o.., anrJ tH•qqrnq lor rl•, ltlf• LET'S RECOGNIZE THE P.L.O. FOR EXACTLY WHAT IT IS. l'n (lrl\'·l , 0 <., .tttlllllllrr•aly ..,,.,..,.,.,. t•v f\·1· /l••lo { lo·l,lfll,illl ,,, l ''·1'1'\' ,,1[1••·1' l!nlh - T b: Ac1 Cond page1 UniOI buok the U guar ri,ght: 1.) free mem muni prote That the C right in thi: will, i they petra agaiu Colle 2.) freed threa 3.) ubSI'( (in<' harn <1.) ur ir pers1 prop prop1 singl1 sons. entir' any l piece destr and 1 Th1 posec studE Unio1 readi freq1 ex an stitut whicl ~.;riev by r weak enfol bef'OJ s b: Ski snme howl mear night and Sk:dr .Ia r·k wher thatt derec waite then away shud< Fo.x < the cl clown shavi La: frien1 killed His v for st the in did n resist enter sister she E her · taken Anc his ro it-you we sa walkE got hi then • yellec and t mean be thl

OONOORDI.ENSIS, November 8, 1979 Page 3 Con:duct-At Union: Tired And Troubled Means Of Enforcement . by DOUG ROSENFELD - According t.Q the ,Stu~ent Conduct Code, as written in the pages of the- recently rel~ased Union College Student :Hand- book 1979-80, \every member of the Union College community js guaranteed,\ among .other rights, these four: 1.) Right to live in a crime• free. envlronment. Every member of the College com- munity has the right . to be protected and .free from crirpe. That is, no p.erson in· or out of the College community has the right to include aqother person in tliis community, against their will,. in a c.;iminal action, nor do they have the right to per. .pettate any criminal action against another person in the College cQmmunity. 2.) Protection against • and f·reedom from bodily harm or threat to health·. · 3.) Freedom from blatantly obscene or offensive behavior (including malicious harrassment or persecution.) 4~) Protection against willful or irresponsible destruction of per~ona-1 or community property. The College's property. is. not owned by any single person or group of per- sons. Rather, it is here for the entire community; therefore, any form of destruction to any piece of community property is destructive to the entire sehoul and this is intolerable. _ These rights, then, are sup- posed to be guaranteed to students as members of the Union f'ommunity, yet it is readily observable that they are frequently violated.. By examining what are the in- stitutional means ·available by which students may redress grjevanf'es of misconduct, and by pointing to some of the weaknesses of that conduct enforcement system, it becomes possible to evaluate just how much of a 'guarantee' ..---9ur 'guaranteed' rights actually contain. ,This commentary will appea_r in installments. Resident Advisors The arms of the ad- ministration within the dor- mitories ate the student Resident Advisors, in whom are vested the responsibilities of setting behavioral guidelines and enforCing them. It has been suggested in the past that R.A. 's, in the preces-s ·Of carrying on their duties, are r·onfronted with the basic conflict ·of trying to be friends- .~r·ounsellors and effective disciplinarians simultaneously. Andolina believes that, although this conflict inevitably must be dealt with by each R.A., it is a surmountable hindranC'e .. Resident Advisors, Andolina. believes, can and should be ''friends. of students while also letting them know what behavior is and is not aC\ceptable. He is adamant in his belief that the ('Ollege does \not want R.A. 's just to be seen as disciplinarians.\ .. . As outlined in the Student Handbook, R.A. 's \have been authorized to levy individual and group fines - in limited circumstances.\ But this fining alternativ.f is only one of the punitive mepsures in cases of misconduct with which R.A. 's find themselves empowered. They may also opt to· turn matters of conduct violations over to . the . .department of Security and Safety, whose ''officers have been authorized to fine Students for specific: actions.\ As ano-ther alter- native, formal comp}aints may be lodgecf by. R.A. 's through the _1;tandard grievance procedure which requires that .. allegations of misconduct must ·be submitted to the -Conduct-Ombudsman Com- . mit tee thro~gh the Office of the Dean of Students.\ '. Andolina wo,1:1Id prefer that non\serio-us ri.e., miner i·n- fradion, first offense J misconduct be handled outside of formal rhannels ;Of discipline with \R.A.'s handling as much as they can handle.\ As H.A.'s are dealing in cases of misconduct with peers in all cases and personal friends and neig:hbors in most cases, Andolina expressed the need \notto put them in the awkwt!rd position of being 'finks'.\ He hopes \minor cases t·an be handled outside of lhisJ offke,\ with · 'only_ the mote serious ones\' being brought to his at· tention. ''R.A.'s C'an deal with dorm misconduct better than I can-.they are doser to the action, and I have to impose sanctions.\ This tendency to prefer in- formal settlement of ntaJJV cases of mislonduct does not preclude the levying of fines to those who have destroyed. property or demoflstrate no recalcitrance. \Fining snould be a routing rnatter-.students should be well aware of the c·onsequences of their actions, aware of automatic fines,\ Andolina went on to comment. Public Offense, Priv~te Defense The case at Union in the past, ' however. too often has been that students romrnit acts of misconduct relatively unaware of the ronsequence.s of their actions. One contributing factor to this lack of awareness may well be the fact that while of- fenders of the student conduct f'ode violate the cornmunitv's laws in public, they are de.alt with priv'ateiy, !' oehiht:PH6sed doors, when they are judged. Th.is private treatment is justifiable at the outset of an investigation by the college into allegations lodged against an Skid-more And Mr. Finn by ANDREW TALLMER Skidmore girls, boy are they something! They reaily know how to throw parties up there, l mean they were tapped in all night and everyone was drunk and it was outrageous. After Skidmore, you know, we went to Jack-in-the-Box, you know, where they have the tacos, and thatt was outrageous!! We or- dered two· dozen tacos and waited till they :Were ready and· then like you know, we drove away! And then (man you shudda seen this) we went to F~ and Davidson and broke all the dom·s and phis girl comtng · down the hall we got with shaving creC!ml Outrageous! Last Sat1;.1rday, a family friend of ours was shot and killed in Riverdale, New York. His wife was- also threatened, for she was in the car in which the incident took place, but she did not make the mistake of resisting the three sctnn that entered the car. The victim's sister was also in the car, but she escaped unharmed. (only her wallet and jewels were taken) · · And then the R.A. came out of his room, man, and said to cool it-you know, to mellow out. And we said sure, sure, and then he walked away, but as he did we got him with a water hose! And then we went to Richmond and yelled \Red light, red light\ and_ the girls got. so upset, I mean like wow man you had to be there. \ .,. Mr. Finn (the man who had the bullet put in his head) was visiting New York on a \peace mission\ for a Jewish organization. A resident of Phoenix, Mr. Finn was barely off the plane when -the shooting took place.- - To· the Pub! To the Pub! we said,· you kriow it was time to tank up again after all the strenuous exertion and if we were lucky maybe we would get into a real good fight. The three \men\ entered Mr. Finn's car as he was waiting for \• It is said that one has no time to register the pain of a bullet entering one's body. Perhaps so - perhaps not. When Mr. Finn was shot, as the poets say' a ~mall trickle of blood flowed from his forehead down the top of his nose, to his chin (some got stuck in his mustache l and onto his neatly fitted tie. After a few twitches, like Kafka's rockroach-Gr~gor, the man died (or what we call death- maybe for him its life in heaven or eternal pain-or most probably nothing.) another passenger. Mr. Finn, What didya get on the mid- his wife, and his sister were to - term? A \B\ ·snag. I gotta A-. I go to the opera. New York has hear his final is gonna be easy. such fine cultural offerings; Ed Whatcha takin' next term? Any Koch's new \I love New York'' good liberal learning guts? campaign includes a poster that Aren't Pre-Meds throats? I'm says: glad one of them failed the You have to he Crazy to Iiv~ in Sociology course I took. Going New York. . . Crazy about to toga later? I hear they got People/'- . really great broads there-and they 1 re taf>ped in-:Whoaa! The sub-human mutants then asked (politely, of course) for everyone's money. ·Everyone complied-except for Mr. Finn,. who struggled for one of his credit cards. That's when some skunk dedded to end· his life. I could kill my pp.rents! ! You know man I wanted the pink Cadillac for up at school, and what do they give me? A lousy Chevette! That thing takes half a minute to go from 0-5G-I'd rather ride around on a mule- But don't ~t me wrong man. I ain't no snob- I got plenty of friends outside the flve-towns area. \Let'em Loose Bruce\ Wri,..\-t ifl'uck has it, will decide the case of the three gentlemen who decided to murder Mr. Finn. Judge Wright however does not believe in finding anyone guilty of anything if the background of the criminal has been anything le.ss than· upper- class. In other words, if you've ·had a \tough time\ in life, you get away, with any crime, if you have Bruce Wright as your judge. ·· What? the Skellar has a special on beer tonight? Let's go, let's party man!! individual because it serves to protect the accused's right of due . process But after the Conduct Committee and the Dean of Students have ad- judicated a given matter, why then is the outcome of their .inquiry held as a secret? If students do not know exactly what punishments correlate with what acts of misconduct, how then can they fear the f'Onsequences of their actions~ ~oreover, how can the college, in good conscience, come down hard upon students who have su('h a small range of precedents to serve as guidelines of their conduct? The rec·ords of the Conduct Com- mittee might best serve the student interest if they were available, without the names of the offenders, f9r public review. The Conduct Committee. Andolina stated, is considering just suf'h a possibility of \in- formin~ the general community of what behavior is intolerable by showing penalties for violation.\ Their progress in this area has been hindered primarily by a fear of the legal f'Onsequences of the move, and serondarily b_y Dean of Students Robert H. Kellett. who fails to see appreciable benefits, and is rightfully concerned over all pt,~rsuant liabilities, of such a mO\'e. Internal vs. External Adjudication \We must consider every incident rase by case, taking into consideration the of- fender's age, his attitude towards what he did, the cir- rumstan~~s. etc., and in the long-run, for- the student's best inte(est. and ,the iristitpt,ion.'s best interest'. 'we like' to keep it' 1 conduct matters) internal.\ With this statement, Andolina summed up the basis of the college's attitude towards in- ternal handling as the proper form of adjudication in cases of student misconduct. He went on to. sav that, in the case of the offender, \criminal records will stay with him for the rest of his life,\ should a victim of misconduct decide to press formal charges with the Schenectady Police Depart- ment. But \the person who was viPtimized makes this final decision,\ Andolina went on to say, ''to keep the matter in- ternal or external.\ Clearly, there are cases that should be turned over to local authorities and cases that should be handled by the r·ollege itself. As an example of a ease which he feels warrants m- ternal treatment, Andolina dted the (•ase of \the freshman with too much to drink who turns around and pokes somebody.\ When asked if he f'Ould ever eonceive of himself ad\·ising a student eomplaintant to bring his-her case to the attention of local authorities, Andolina replied, \yes.\ As an example, he spoke of the Psi UpsiloN robbery of several weeks ago t..·hich was handled internally because the thief returned the money he had stolen. ''If the thief had not returned the money,\ Andolina said. \he should have advised the fraternity to bring the matter to the attention of S.P.D. (In case you're wondering, the student implicated in the robbery was suspended from school. For how long? That information is \confidential.\ J Intimidation Intimidation of students who bring charg~s of misconduct to the attention of the ad- ministration is another downfall of Un1on's conduct mechanism, as Andolina regretfully ad- mitted, \we can't keep the person who is bringing charges anonymous, and· so in protec- ting rights of due process for the · accused, we are making it :hard to prosecute. \Some pi:!ople are legitilTl.ately scar.ed,\ and~ as a result, \students ··aJ:>ell't bringing these problems to me. Only if students start bringing c !aims can we get something done.\ At this date, the best that the administration can do is to make intimidation illegal ac- cording to an offender's probation conditions. But there is a Catch-22 built into this system's logic--how can someone who is effectively intimidated accuse someone of intimidation in order to rectify the situation? . NEED. A SECOND ., CHANCE. Did you just settle for any job because there wasn't the time or money to get more education a(ter high school? It's not too late. If you want to continue your education. no matter what your age, study money can be_ yours. But you have to APPLY YOURSELF. Whether you want to go to college or technical school, federal financial aid is avail· able to those who qualify. Interested? Ask the financial aid administrator at the school you plan to attend, or write to Box 84, Washing· ton. D.C. 20044 f& a free booklet entitled \A Student Consumer's Guide to Six Federal Financial Aid Programs:· APPLY YOURSELF today. Education after high school can be the key to a better life. . tlnited States Orfice of-Education • ' .

OONOORDIENSIS 1 November 8 1 1979 Page 3 Conduct At Union: Tired And Troubled Means Of Enforcement by DOUG ROSENFELD AC'eording to the Student Conduet C<iJde, as written in the pages of the recently released Union College Student Hand- buok 1979-80, \every member of the Union College community is guaranteed,\ among other ri,ghts, these four: 1.) Right to live in a crime- free environment. Every member of the College com- munity has the right to be protected and free from crime. That is, no person in or out of the College community has the right to include another person in this (•ommunity, against their will, in a criminal action, nor do they have the right to per- petrate any criminal action against another person in the College community. 2.) Protection against and freedom from bodily harm or threat to health. 3.) Freedom from blatantly nbs<'ene or offensive behavior (in<·lud.ing malicious harrassment or persecution.) 4.) Protection against willful or irresponsible destruction of personal or community property. The College's propert~ is not owned by any single person or group of per- sons. Rather, it is here for the entire eommunity; therefore, any form of destruction to any piece of community property is destructive to the entire school and this is intolerable. These rights, then, are sup- posed to be guaranteed to students as members of the Union mmmunity, yet it is readilv observable that thev are frequently violated. · By examining what are the in- stitutional means available by which students may redress !.!rievanC'eS of misconduct, and by pointing to some of the weaknesses of that <\onduct enforcement svstem. it hec·omes pos?ible ·to evaluate jwst how mueh of a 'gtlarantee' our 'guaranteed' rights aetually <'Ontain. ,Thts commentary will appear in installments. Resident Advisors The arms of the ad- ministration within the dor- mitories are the student Resident Advisors, in whom are vested the responsibilities of setting behavioral gui'dehnes and enforcing them. It has been suggested in the past that H. A.'s, in the proces-s of .carrying on their duties, are confronted with the basic c·<mfli<'t of trying t0 be friends- < ·0uhsell ors and effective disciplinarians simultaneously. Andolina believes that, although this <'O!ilflitt inevitably must be dealt with by each H.A., it is a surmountable hindranl'e. Hesident Advisors, Andolina believes, can and should be ''friends of students while also letting them know what behavior is and is not ar·c·eptable. He is adamant in his belief that the <·allege does \not want R.A. 's just to be seen as disciplinarians.\ As outlined in the Student Handbook, R.A.'s \have been authorized to len individual and group fines·. in limited circumstances.\ But this fining alternative is only one of the punitive measures in cases of misconduct with which R.A. 's find themselves empowered. They may also opt to turn matters of conduct violations over to the department of Securitv and Safe tv, whose \nffif'ers have been authorized to fine students for specific a<tions.\ As another alter- native. formal <'Omplaints may be lodged by R.A. 's through the _standard grievance procedure which requires that .. allegations of misconduct must be submitted to the Condw·t-Ombudsman Com- mittee throu,gh the Office of the Dean of Students.\ Andolina would prefer that non-serious ri.e., minor in- fraction, first off~nse 1 misconduct be handled outside of formal c·hannels of discipline with \R.A. 's handling as much as they c·an handle.\ As R.A. 's are de a ling in cases of misconduct with peers in all c·ases and personal friends and neighbors in most cases, Andolina expressed the need \not to put them in the awkward position of being 'finks'.\ He hopes \minor cases !'an be handled outside of r his 1 office,\ with \only the more serious ones\ being brought to his at· tention. \R.A. 's <\an deal with dorm misconduct b~tter than I c·an-they are c·loser to the action, and I have to impose sanctions.\ This tendency to prefer m· formal settlement of manv l'ases of misc·onduct does not predude the levying of fines to those who have destroyed property or demonstrate no re('aleitrance. \Fining should be a routing matter-students should be well aware of the c onsequences of their actions, aware of automatil' fines, .. Andolina went on to C\Omment. Public Offense, Private Defense The case at Union in the past. however, too often has been that students C'Ommit acts of misconduct relativelY unaware of the consequences of their actions. One contributing factor to this lack of awareness mav well be the fact that while of- fenders of the student conduct C'Ode violate the communitv's laws in public, they are de.alt with privatelY. behintl closed doors, when they are judged. Th.is private treatment is justifiable at the outset of an im·estigation by the college into allegations lodged against an Skidmore And Mr. Finn by ANDREW T ALLMER Skidmore girls, boy are they something! They really know how to throw parties up there, I mean they were tapped in all night and everyone was drunk and it was outrageous. After Sk: dmore, you know, we went to .Jar·k-in-the-Box, vou know, where they have the tacos, and tha1t was outrageous!! We or- dered two dozen tacos and waited till they were ready and then like vou know, we drove away! And then 1 man you shudda seen this l we went to Fox and Davidson and broke all the doors and this girl comtng down the hall we got with shaving cream! Outrageous! Last Saturday, a family friend of ours was shot and killed in Riverdale, New York. His wife was also threatened, for she was in the car in which the incident took place, but she did not make the mistake of resisting the three scum that entered the car. The victim's sister was also in the car, but she escaped unharmed. (only her wallet and jewels were taken) And then the R.A. came out of his room, man, and said to cool it-you know, to mellow out. And we said sure, sure, and then he walked away, but as he did we got him with a water hose! And then we went to Richmond and yelled \Red light, red light\ and the girls got so upset, I mean like wow man you had to be there. :\lr. Finn 1 the man who had the bullet put in his head l was \·isiting New York on a .. peaee miss ion\ for a Jewish organization. A resident of Phoenix. :vtr. Finn was barely off the plane when .the shooting took place. To tht..• Pub~ To the Pub! we said. you know it was time to tank up again after all the strenuous exertion and if we were lucky maybe we would get into a real good fight. The three \men\ entered Mr. Finn's ear as he was waiting for another passenger. Mr. Finn, his wife, and his sister were to go to the opera. New York has such fine cultural offerings; Ed Koch's new \I love New York\ campaign includes a poster that says: You have to be Crazy to live in New York. . . Crazy about People.\ The sub-human mutants then asked (politely, of course) for everyone's money. ·Everyone complied-except for Mr. Finn, who struggled for one of his credit cards. That's when some skunk decided to end his life. I could kill my parents!! You know man I wanted the pink Cadillac for up at school, and what do they give me? A lousy Chevette! That thing takes half a minute to go from 0-50-I'd rather ride around on a mule- But don't ~t me wrong man. I ain't no snob- I got plenty of friends outside the five-towns area. It is said that one has no time to register the pain of a bullet entering one's body. Perhaps so - perhaps not. When !\1r. Finn was shot, as the poets say, a -small trickle of blood flowed from his forehead down the top of his nose, to his chin 1 some got stuck in his mustache l and onto his neath· fitted tie. After a few tv,:itches, like Kafka's C'Ockroa('h-Gregor. the man died 1 or what we call death- maybe for him its life in heaven or eternal pain-or most probably nothing. 1 What didya get on the mid· term? A \B\- snag. I gotta A-. I hear his final is gonna be easy. Whatcha takin' next term? Any good liberal learning guts? Aren't Pre-Meds throats? I'm glad one of them failed the Sociology course I took. Going to toga later? I hear they got really great broads there-and they're tapped in-Whoaa! \Let'em Loose Bruce\ Wri~\\'\'t if luck has it, will decide the case of the three gentlemen who decided to murder Mr. Finn. Judge Wright however does not believe in finding anyone guilty of anything if the background of the criminal has been anything less than upper- class. In other words, if you've had a \tough time\ in life, you get away, with any crime, if you have Bruce Wright as your judge. What? the Skellar has a special on beer tonight? Let's go, let's party man!! individual because it serws to protect the accused's right of due process But after the Conduct Committee and the Dean of Students have ad· judi<'ated a given matter, why then is the outcome of their inquiry held as a secret? If students do not know exactly what punishments correlate with what acts of misconduct, how tht'!\'l ('an they fear the C\onsequences of their actions\ :Yloreo\'er, how can the college, in good r·onscience, come down hard upon students who haw sur·h a small range of precedents to serve as guidelines of their conduct? The rec·ords of the Conduct Com- mittee might best serve thl• student interest if they were a\'ailable. without the names of the nffenders, for public review. The Conduc·t Committee. :\ndolina stated, is 'on~idering just suc·h a possibility of \in- formin!.! the general communitv of what behavior is intolera bit· by showing penalties for \'iolation.\ Their progress in this area has been hindered primarily by a fear of the legal r onsequences of the move, and seC'ondarih b\ Dean of Students Rnbert H. ·Kellett. who fails to see appreciable benefits, and is rightfully conC\erned over all pursuant liabilities. of such a nlO\'E'. Internal vs. External Adjudication \We must consider everv incident case by case, taking into consideration the of- fender's age, his attitude towards what he did. the cir- c·umstances. etc., and in the lon~·run, for the student's best interest and the institution's best interest. we like to keep it c condurt matters l internal.\ With this statement, Andolina summed up the basis of the college's attitude towards in- ternal handling as the proper form of adjudication in cases of student misconduct. He went on to sav that. in the case of the offender ... criminal records will stay with him for the rest of his life.\ should a victim of misconduct decide to press formal l'harges with the SC'henectady Police Deoart- rnent. But \the person who wa'i vidimized makes this fin;,) decision,\ Andolina went on tr• say, ''to keep the matter in· ternal or external.'' Clearly, there are cases that should be turned over to local authorities and cases that should be handled by the c·ollegt itself. As an example of a cast which he feels warrants m- ternal treatment, Andolina f'ited the c·ase of ''the freshman with too much to drink who turns around and pokes somebody.\ When asked if he c·ould ever <·onceive of himself ad\·ising a student complaintant to bring his-her case to the attention of local authorities, Andolina replied, \yes.\ As an example, he spoke of the Psi Upsilon robbery of several weeks ago which was handled internally bee a use the thief returned the money he had stolen. \If the thief had not returned the money,\ Andolina said. \he should have advised thl' fraternity to bring the matter to the attention of S.P.D. r In <·ase you're wondering, the student implicated in the robbery was suspended from school. For how long? That information is \confidential.\ 1 Intimidation Intimidation of students who bring charges of misconduct to the attention of the ad- ministration is another downfall of Union's conduct mechanism, as Andolina regretfully ad- mitted. \we can't keep the person who is bringing charges anon)mous, and so in protec- ting rights of due process for the accused, we are making it hard to prosecute. \Some people are legitimately scar.ed,\ and. as a result. \students aren't bringing these problems to me. Only if students start bringing claims can we get something done.\ At this date, the best that the administration can do is to make intimidation illegal ac- cording to an offender's probation conditions. But there is a Catch-22 built into this system's logic--how can someone who is effectivelv intimidated accuse someone of intimidation in order to rectifv the situation? · NEED A SECOND CHANCE? Did you just settle for any JOb because th<.>re wasn't the time or money to get more education after high school' It's not too late. If you want to continue your education, no matter what your age, study money can be yours. But you have to APPLY YOURSELF. Whether you want to go to college or technical school, federal financial aid is avail· able to those who qualify. Interested? Ask the finannal a1d admm1stratt•r at the scholll '\''u plant~> attend. or >IT!te t•> Bt>x 84. W,1,;hmg ton. D.C :20044 for a free bmklet entitled \A Student Consumer's Gu1de to S1:-. Federal Fmanrial ..'\ld Programs:· APPLY YOl 'HSEI.F tnday. Educatwn after htgh school c,1n be the ke>· '\a better life. · • l'nited StatPs Office of Education

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, November.. 8, 1979 .Graduate Studies by ROY JACKSON The department of Graduate Studies a\nd Continuing EducatiQ.n is an important but little-known appendage of Union College. It provides a program of special studies for those students who wish to take courses in the evening or late afternoon or enroll for un- dergraduate and graduate courses. Through this depart- ment, thay may attain a degree if accepted into one of the regular programs of the College. Graduate studies is a growing function of Union College and should soon be better known for its very wide range of special studies. Dean Aaron Feinsot The office of Graduate· Studies and Continuing Education is located in Wells The Resident ·,.Advisor by DAVID WOLLIN (The story you are about to read is not an actual accoqnt of the events as they occurred and the names have been changed to protect the guilty) As I sit at my desk, pondering my next article for Con- cordiensis, I cant help but wonder who will be the next victims of my so-called \dry\ humor . . . (Dry humor?? . . . Some say it is as \dry\ as a martini in the Sahara Dessert .. . And that's dry!!). Who shall it be this week?? ... Who will be the next casualty that un- doubtedly will be unable to escape the grasping hands of my searing wittiCism?? ... Will my next prey be the ad• ministration?? ... (Not if I plan to graduate); will it be Union College's Fraternities . . . (NO!!! ... NO WAY!! ... NEVER!!), or will this week's scapegoat ultimately be West Cafeteria and their esculent delicacies : .. (OH NO!! ... NOT AGAIN!!). NoJ! This week's sacrifice will be none other than the most superior, well liked, (and presently the most picked on) Resident Advisors at Union College ... The R.A.'s I am talking about ··· reside in the infamous and certainly the most ram- bunctious dormitory at Union College 0 • • • WEST DOR- MITORY ... THE \ZOO\. What is a Resident Advisor? What are their functions? How do they contribute to the st-ability (or in this case in· stability ... No!! ... more like insanity) of the floor? These and other boring questions were posed to West Dormitory (The \ZOO\), so that their responses could be tabulated, calculated, and then stored in the ap- propriate place . . . La Cana Trasha . . . (That's Spanish for \The Trash Can\). Here are some of the typical questions that were asked: Q. If you have a serious problem . . . (hangnail . . . sterility . . . etc . . . ) . . . Do you know where to reach your Head R.A.? A: Sure!! ... Room 425 : .. Skidmore College. Q: How about the R.A.s ... Do you look up to them with reverence and as a dominant . force on the floor? A: Well ... If they didn't wear diapers .. . ;Q: Have the R.A.s set a good example for the dormitory? A: Well . . . If you consider stumbling in at 4 in the morning in a drunken stupor a good example . . . But of course, everyone else is wasted also. Q: What have the R.A.s contributed to the floor to promote pleasure, excitement, · and sexual fulfillment? A: Uh ... Uh ... What was the question? Although West Dormitory has a reputation of being one of the most studious and scholarly living areas at Union College ( 1979 Grade Point Average: - 0.06), the \Zoo Crew\ manages to find time to alleviafe their constant studying. Some of the activities on the agenda each week include: Fish Shaving, Killer Frisbee, Window Soccer (More like \Broken\ Window Soccer), and a multitude of others. In order to li\e up to the highest expect~ tions of the Freshmen (and believe me . . . they are high all of the time), the R.A.s have a set of com- mandments in which they religiously abide by. They are: The Five Commandments 1. When trouble's around, the R.A.s are no where to be found. 2. Thou shalt not consume alcoholic beverages on days of the week beginning with the letter \X\. ' 3. Thou shall impose fines for serious offedses ... breathing, combing thy hair . . . writing Concordiensis arti~les that aren't funny. 4, Thou shalt not fool around . . . (Screw this commandment) 5. There is no commandment number 5. The resident advisors of West· Dormitory are an intricate part ·of the life at Union College. They act not only as a tran· scending figure (and believe me . . . some of the female R.A.s have a great figure), but they also provide excitement, en- joyment, and especially'~ the kegs. Without their assistance, patience, and rowdiness, West Dormitory would not be what it is today ... THE \ZOO\. These articles appeared on the front page of past Concordiensis' : Friday, March 31, 1933 Members of the Spanish club heard Mr. Jorge Montano, electrical engineer, a native of Columbia and now a Schenectadian, trace the discovery, early use, and present culture of coffee at their meeting Wednesday night. There is no written history of how coffee was first used, said the speaker, but if we are to believe in tradition, it was a bunch of playful youngsters, in Arabia, who in the year 575 A.D. went to their homes eating the berries of a coffee tree for the . first time. \K'hawah the original name, was then growing wild in an Abyssinian province called ~'Kaffa\ so it took this name; from here the Latins got their \cafe\, and we got our \cof- fe.e.\ . Coffee was chewed until 1285. when Hadji Omar, driven out of Mocha, lived for several days on this uncultivated food. He is credited with -being the first one to drink hot water in which he had steeped some of these berries after first browning them over his fire. To some Mohammedan tribes, coffee making and drinking became a semi- religious ceremony, but later, due to superstition and an- tagonism of some priests, it was brought under the ban of the Koran. From Arabia coffee went west, and by the year 1644 all European countries were drinking it. Mr. Montano concluded by bringing the story of coffee up to the present time. He showed that Colombia was won world- wide recognition as the largest producer of fine coffees. Friday, November 13, 1942 wel:come, girls who come this weekend welcome, from this far from meed end welcome, you dear skidmore's suzie (nowadays one can't be too choosy) welcome, too, you rustling sages (glad to see you out of cages) welcome, teachers new york .stated (all sUrprised to find you're dated?) welcome, welcome, welcome women (welcome while the lights are dimmin') welcome wellesley, vassar, smith {wonder whom they came in with) welcome, welcome, welcome all them that's short and them that's tall them that's beautiful and curvy them's that frolicsome and nervy them that's home-e-ly and jerky them that's frigid and beserky them that won't and them that will them that smoke and drink their fill welcome, welcome, welcome to thee welcome dot and ann and ruthy welcome marge and dear sue cohen (Why can't the babe leave us alohen?) welcome, joan, and babs and lYnn HELL, WE'RE. ALL AS GOOD AS FLY~!. House, and Dean Aaron Feinsot, as dean of Graduate Studies, is primarily respon- sible for part-time un- dergraduate students, graduate students and the summer seho~;>l on both the undergraduate arid graduate levels. His respon- sibilities are broad and are growing. . Graduate studies offers special studies in humanities, social sciences~ sciences, and engineering. Not surprisingly, tne most distinctive feature of - its academic P.rog.ram is the existence of a ·strong engineering program within the . liberal.arts framework. For the past thirty years· both Un- dergraduate and graduate · studies courses have be,en available in the late afternoon and evening for part:tffiie students. Well over QPe thousand adults of all ages ~re presently registering,- each term, either seeking degrees or otherwise continuing their education by taking course An . specific fields., Graduate degrees at the masters level are offered in engineering, science and mathematics. TJ:le ..Jnstitute of Administration and Management offers M.S. and M.B.A. degrees, in a variety of concentrations, as well /as op- portunities 'for combined degrees with two associated colleges. In co-operation with Alb<i'ny College 6f Law, students may earn J.D.-M.B.A. degrees, A combined B.S.-M.S. is·offered in conjunction with Albany ·College of Pharmacy. Doctrinal· degrees are also', awarded in Admin is t rat i v e and Engineering Systems and Life Sciences and Systems. Also little known to Union's undergraduate community is the Union College Poughkeepsie Center and Pittsfield Extension Center. Union College offers evening bachelors and masters degree programs in Po!lghkeepsie; New York and Pit-tsfield, Mass. In Poughkeepsie; classes are held at the Union College office .tmilding,. at Vassar College and at Outcqess Community ·College, In Pittsfield, classes are held at Berkshire CoJD- munity College. The fall total enrollment for graduate students numbered as many as 1700 students, most of whom are in occupationally oriented programs .. Career Program . . by DOUG ROSENFELD Union College's Placement and Career Resources Office ( PCR), in conjunction with the Alumni Office, for the third consecutive year has planned a Career Observation Program, this year to be conducted on Dec. 12, 13, and 14 in Boston. The program is designed to introduce students to the nature of some specific careers by arranging for them to spehd time with Union Alumni in- volved in those careers. The - program is· available . for students of all classes, and there is no limitation on how many people can sign up and participate. Mrs. Yungwha Min, the program's coordinator in the PCR, claims that \last year about 25 students participated in the program.\ These students described their ex- periences as \worthwhile\,· \invaluable!' \eplightening\, and \i'hformative\. One student wrote that \the internships expose you to the opinions of an experienced professional, who graduated from Uniefn. He-she will be able to advise you ac- cordingly. You can also start developing a valuable. network of contacts before you are even considering entering the job market.\ Although Mrs. Min is quick to emphasize that the program is not designed for \looking for jobs, but . .for career ex- ploration,\ she acknowledges the fact that at least one student who participated in the program and graduated last year ended up getting a job through contacts made during her involvement in it. Currently, letters are cir- culating in the Boston area amongst Unfon alumni requesting past participants to participate once mor~.- and 464 State St. we deliver encouraging others to get in- volved with the program for the first time. Among the fields that Mrs. Min hopes will be included in the internship program are the following: advertising, banking, brokerage-investm- ent, city planning, commercial art-graphics, counseling-social work, engineering, en- vironll}ental planning, film, government, hospital ad- ministration, journalism, law,, medicine, museums, personnel-· labor relations, politics, public relations, publishing, radio- TV, and sales-marketing. This list, which is by 'no means complete, clearly demonstrates that the pr.ogram presents a wide range of opportunities for students to view firsthand some careers. Mrs. Min projects that by Tuesday, Nov. 13, the list of available career internships will be completely compiled and available .for student perusal. Sign-up for the program will commence on Wednesday, Nov. 14, and there will be an orien- tation meeting concerning the prog.ram on Wednesday, Nov. 14 at 4:00 p.m. in the Office ·of Placement 'and Career Resources. This short meeting will focus ~n advising students on \what to expect and what is expected of them\ as well as explaining g.enerally the program- \what it is and what it is not.'' Mrs. Betty Goodman,. also of the PCR office, is currently in the planning phase of ·a program like that organized by Mrs. Min, which she wants to have conducted among Union Alumni in New York City. Letters have beeh addressed to Union alwpni in that area, and she would like to see any and aU students who either would like to participate in such a program or know of alumni in the N. Y.C. 'area who might be willing to particip{lte in such .a program. Schenectady 374-1888 On cam< Gre<: of S ditio the I the f Dire AngE Stud origi for a the 1 last go-al Maz·. plan out o ~~ood Ilece and Accc mon serv bad Th strU< sevE imp( exist a fa ser-v says deli\ pus. Tb ~lmo stud' is SO' refle resp and Bu cons Maz. a ve1 is ~ ~ ( item hope Tl Kap rein: Octc K< beer In 1 did expE char agre only of 1£ wrot heac requ Kap] In inst< Sign , men grou pled1 they of COml raisi took com] reim had uppe Wl carn1 man: were want not f1 frate couh Tega be rr Th with to UJ close treat Of natio . fifth and has< At cere Corn

p- y n d OONCORDIENSIS 1 November 8, 1919 Page 5 Pizza Captures Campus ·~y DOUG ROSENFELD One of the cbanges which came about as a result of the Great Carnegie Reorganization of Summer 1979 Nas the ad- dition of a pizzeria, known as the Dutch Hollow Pizza Pub, to the first floor' of Car,negie Hall. Director of Food Services Angelo Mazzone and Deaf! of Students Robert Kellett originally conceived of the idea for a pizzeria and suggested it to the College Center Committee last spring. After receivi11.g- the· go-ahead from the committee, Mazzone and Kellett put the plan into eff~ct, using. $20,000 out of the budget of the college's food service to pay for the necessary capital equipment and bu.ilding modifications. According to, Ma2-.zone, \the money that came out of the food service budget must be paid back thi~ year.\ The college decided to c;on- struct a pizzeria on campus for several reasons, the ·most important of which is that there exists a demand for the product, a fac1 evidenced by the ob- ser.vation that, as Mazzone says, ''so many places are delivering pizza to the cam- pus.\ The pizzeria iS', says Mazzone, \more of a service to the-- students than anythiflg else. It is something they wanted. H is a reflection of. the fact that we respond to what students want, and we respond quickly.\ But an added attraction of constructing a piz~eria, admits Mazzone, is that it is potentially a very profitable venture. Pizza is \a high profit, low overhead item\ -and, as such, Mazzone hopes that the ·'pizza parlor will be a· money-maker while charging less than any other place in town.\ The pizzeria offers the food service at Union a form of \blanket security,\ a financial guarantee that is needed in order to ensue \break-even in other food establishments\ on campus. Mazzone is confident in his feeling that \students tend to like the product\ offered them by the Dutch Hollow Pizzeria, citing a \lot of positive feed- back from students.\ One student who Mazzone says report§ back to him every week, last week is reported to have told him that the pizza is \the best it has ever been-it can't get any better than it is right now.\ According to student manager Mohammed Raihani, the pizzeria is \run entirely by student help except for supervisor Gary Bishop, a full· time employee .of the college'', who was hired specificaHy for the purpose of overseeing the operation of the pizzeria. Raihani, Class of 1980, is a student manager of the pizzeria along w~h Michael Bacco, '80. Raihani acknowledged that \sometimes we're late with delivery and inconsistent with our pizzas, but we are fully aware of th~se problems and are doing our best to alleviate them.'' In defense of the pizza's alieged 'inconsistent' qua-lity, Raihani explained that ''all of the student w6rkers, with the . exception of Mike Bacco, never made pizza\ before getting involved with the pizzeria. \For the first month,\ Raihani continued, \business has been pretty good-not as good as expected, but this is our first month of work.\ Bacco remarked that \we feel con- fident that we are bringing the sl udents the best possible product at the lowest possible price, and we always welcome suggestions from our custmners.'' Ra.ihani added that ''we do need pe(,ple who want tu work, especially on weekends,\ and that those interested in wo~king should contact either him or Mike at the pizzerja, The Dutch Hollow Ptzzerit,~ is open for business from 4: 30 p.m .. until midnight on M<mdays and Wednesdays; from 4:30 'p.m. until 1:00 a.m. on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Sundays; and from 4:30 p.m. until 2:00 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. Free delivery to ~ points on, and in the immediate ~ vicinity of, the rampus ~s ~ available from 5:00 p.m. until ~ closing time every day of the ~ week. Yes. delivery is free, said c Raihani, but \since they're ~ students, you should tip them.\ Mohammed Raihani and Michael l:!acco Hale Reviewed by MELISSA CRAGIN The Union College Food Service is now in control of all the dining facilities on the. Campus. They are all operating efficientlY. Hale House. however,' 1s suffering from overcrowding and a general lack of functionality. At any giv.en t_ime, Hale, which is open for lunch and dinner :vlonday through Fri'day, is r·apable of seating 130 people. On an average, attendance at Hale during lunch is ap- proximately 230, an:.: at dinner approximately 250. t The crux of the crowding probkm occurs presently during luneh at about 12:30 after the last morning C\!ass. and before the afternoon classes. J Dinner !Jas evened out now that people ha\·e chosen their own schedule·. Frat Reinstated Along with the crowding problem is the one of· organization and functionalism. The serving area is presently \·ery cramped, and there is a lack of space to leave dirty dishes. Students also com- mented that the table arrang.ement ts difficult to maneuver through, \'l.'f)U either have to crawl under 01 make everybody stand up\. There was also a comment that the servin-g line runs right out through the dining room. According to Angelo Mazzone, the Food Service is presently trying to solve these problems. Since the number of non- freshmen meal plans has in- creased by approximately 360 people in the past two years, the problem at Fiale occurred naturally. Mr. Mazzone said that plans have been sent to the school's architect for advising on the expansion of the dining hall. Primary choices for rennovation are to either extend into Old Chapel, use Hale House Lower Lounge, or to build into the back courtyard. Mr. Mazzone admitted that at present the dining hall is not efficient, and the expansion will ·'hopefully be done before winter term.\ Other changes at Hale that the Food Service would like seen are : a new dish room and a change in the servif1g line to alleviate the bottleneck. Also, there will be new tables and cflairs, and a new line for serving. Hale House Kitchen has new equipment this year, new curtains, and a new coat of paint. by KAREN ROTH The Delta\Tau chapter of Kappa Sigma was officially reinstated at Union College on October nineteenth 1979. Kappa Sigma had originally been installed at Union in 1929. In 1964, however, the brothers did not hold up the standards expected of them and their. charter was suspended. It was agreed that this suspension was only temporary, and in fall term of 1977 alurrtni of Kappa Sigma wrote letters to the national headquarters of Kappa Sigma requesting a reinstatement of Kappa Sigma at Union. In April of 1978 Delta-Tau was installed as a colony of Kappa Sigma consisting of fourteen members. A colony ts a pledg~ group prior to initiation. This pledge group had to show that they could uphold the standards of Kappa · Sigma through community projects and fund raising. This part of the process took one and a half years to .... complete. At the time of their reinstatement in. October they had sixteen brothers and two upperclassmen pledges. Why another fraternity on a campus that already has so many? The original fourteen were a group of friends who wanted to stay together and did not feel that any one of the othe.r fraternities on campus would or could take all of them. They -also regarded it as a challenge not to be missed. The alumni also had alot to do with the return of Kappa Sigma to Union college. They worked closely with the brothers and treated them as equals. Of all the fraternities . nationally, Kappa Sigma ranks fifth with regard to members and chapter houses and even has a few chapters in Canada. At the recent initiation cerennonies brothers from Cornell, Hobart and Rutgers came to Union to lend a hand. One of the major serv1ce projects which the brothers will be involved in is a Thanksgiving food drive. In conjunction with the campus ministry and the Hamilton Hill Association the brothers will be collecting food and money to be distributed to the needy people of Schenec- tady. Their primary goal is a thousand dollars. I / }I ., ~---= . - .,_ -- __.:-- . - Kappa Sigma is temporarily housed on the first floor of Hickok House with hopes of getting a permanent residence by next year. Anyone interested in more information about Kappa Sigma, or anyone in- terested in playing on one of their intramural teams, can visit the brothers on first floor Hickok or can call Steve Marsh at 370-6601. · 6 t - -~~- . ~ ;,_.- ~ ____ ..... --~- '----- ...._ - . ..::::..:- - - . -' ~ t ;@ ~--~ --~ _ ... -- __ := :3:::' .. ·:-· -._ ~~ .__- -~-- -. - __ ... ..J;• ,_..- - ---- - -~ Artist's ct?}'lceptioh: The Way We Were \ The Hale House Kitchen is being assessed this week, and there will be a follow-up article concerning the decision for the dining hall's rennovations. ~ --- --- - -~ ----_:,-=...-=::-~~--- c_ ___ _ ·-- ~ l ...... -

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, November 8} 1919 arttT cultur¢ Joint· Perf.Ormance The Union College Men's Glee Club_,. under the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson, will be joined by the Smith College Glee Club, under the direction of G. Roberts Kolb, for a per- formance of Ottorino Respighi's \Laud to the Nativity\ on Sunday, November 11, at 2:.30 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel at Union. General admission is $2, free to students and. senior citizens. · , The program will begin with a group of works sung by the Union College Men's Glee Club, with Hugh Allen Wilson directing. Two Schubert pieces, \Trinklied\ and \Die Nacht \ will be followed by John Dowland's \Come again, sweet love,\ the Traditional \Loch · Lohmond\ as arranged by R. Vaughan ·Williams, Eric Thi~ Fr~day., N.ovember 9th, COFFEEHOUSE presents Ron Thiman's \She is my slender Rennm9er, gu1tar1st, singer and songwriter. He has been playing small love,\ another professionally for 14 years often with many vyell known artists such Traditional, ''Cockles and as Chuck Berry and Jesse Colin Young. He has played at many M 1 \ db · oth:e~ colleges, clubs, and folk festivals performing both his own usse s, as arrange · Y J.W. music and songs written by others. (To date, he has had ~lo of his Jenkins, and Adriano Ban- b chieri's \Intermedio di :ongspu lished!)~o':\akesuretostopbyFridaynightat8:30p.m. Solfanari.\ J • mOld Chapel (unl1m1ted coffee, tea, donuts (\lid live music--$1 at the door). · The Smith College Glee Club, _ with G. Roberts Kolb .con- Dead Changes Over There are very few events in one's life which are so shocking that one is forced to re-evaluate his thinking so that mueh of his outlook is changed. Such an event has occurred in my life. For years thiS writer has passed off the Grateful Dead as a bunch of geriatric cocaine fanatics who bad as much to do with rock and roll as Santa Claus does with the New York Philharmonic. But that has all changed. With the release of The Dead: Live at Max's Kansas City, the San Francisco band has entered into a new era in the history of its musical production. The album is sure to consternate Dead fans everywhere, as there has been no greater change in musical style in the past two decades. The songs on this album, thirteen on side one and eleven on side two, (there is a two and · a half minute jam that con- cludes side two), fly by like an engineer in the Humanities building. The brutal, poW1ding force of the music alternates between sounding like a blender with a tin can thrown in it or a tape of a speech by Mussolini played backward at full volume. The vocals are almost totally obscured, as the .Dead's re-working of their older tunes is meant to be a formal and resolute break from their past endeavors. Side one begins with a song concerning Jerry Gar- cia's continuing battle with head colds, \Boogeree.\ \Can't shake it, Can't shake it, Boogeree ... \ wails J ;G. in a fit of passionate rage. The moment is quickly consumed by the drone like thrumming of the trimmed, name-changed. four man outfit (Jerry Garcon on lead rhythm guitar, Robert .. weird on rhythm-rhythm guitar, Phil Less on bass and Mick Hard on the single snare drum. There is barely a pause between the opening song and the next, and it took this writer several listenings before he rould easily distinguish them or most of the other tunes from one another. In tht middle of the side there is a most striking tune on the record a song which (I think) is about Weird's wish fot and the establishment of a brotherhood to work for revolution \War Frat.\ Weird's vocal bears a distinct resemblance to a prematurely born chicken, and it perfectly corr plirnents the band's insistent pounding_. Mick Hard displays his talents on the next number, a song dealing with the drummer's com- munion with inanimate objects, ''I Know Your Lighter.\ The sound here changes visibly, as-- this is described in the liner notes-Hard leaves his drum to · sing stage front as he invites an audience member to come on the stage and beat the drum to any beat of his or her choice. This technique ensues a dif- ferent performance every time. The beat played by the par- ticipant on the album sounds closest to a foxtrot and the . band's playing off of it works marvelously. Bravo, guys. The side doses with another illness song, written by Phil Less concerning his bout with food poisoning, \Lox of Pain.\ Needless to say, it is a great time. SiQ.e two is not as wholly impressi.ve as the first, ~ut compared to all other recent Dead output, it sparkles. One of the two Ol\tstanding cuts. is \Rhumba Land Snooze\ an account of Bob Weird's recent, not-so-exciting trip to the Roseland Dance Hall. The song is all of 58 seconds, complete . with compacted solos by three band members. It is truly an achievement, as the song's lyrics, the most easily discernable on the album, evoke a heartfelt image of boredom with the modern society and an intense desire to do something to change it. By the end .of the tune one can feel Weird's emotional and physical drain, as well as the devoted ·com- miseration of the other band members. The song easily surpasses anything the Dead have ever done, equalled only by the last song on the record. The final song, the only tune original on the record, is a viscious condemnation of all the ·- Dead had once stood for· but have now tossed aside. \Gonna Throw Acid on your Acid\ is a group-written tune. and it uses every one of the two and one half· minutes of its duration to the utmost. Weird hits his one solo note on his guif;ar, and it is possibly the best note ever struck on that instrument. It is well-tuned, perfectly executed, and played with such passion that one can even hear the oohs and ahhs of the audience through the tumultuous, ab- sorbing production. With this song alone the Dead hav&firmly rooted themselves in the forefront of rock history. The Dead: Live at Max's Kansas City is already a rock rlassic, only two weeks after its release. Anyone who would argue with such a statement is a fool-I feel so strongly toward . this album that I can say that. I love it. It is great. Life is wonderfuL I've. worn out the grooves already. I must go out and buy another copy, so I'll end here. l hope the record store is still open . ; . II LSAT LSAT • MCAT • GRE GRE PSYCH • GRE 810 GMAT • OAT '\ OCAT • PCAT VAT • MAT • SAT .STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDI:JCATIONAl CENTER lr·(,l f'ri•(J~r ... dl'.n 5(.1P.L-Idll<,h SinH! rrns OPlN DAYS, fVfNINGS. & WHKf.NDS For lnformatton. Please Call or Vr<;1l out Cent.er Tfl3 Doliiware Ave Delmar N Y 12054 1518) 4.'39·8141) it~~· c woc•no'\ \\\(! TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 C.1·nter\ In M~1<1r IJ~ Crllf:S &.Aim 1 act ducting, will then perform Guillaume de Bouzignac: \Tota pulchra es;\ Samuel Scheidt: · \'Laudate Dorninwn;\ Ronald Perera: \Everything That Hath Breath;\ Aaron Copland:,. \The House on the Hill;\ and Nor- man Delio Joio.: \A Jubilant Song,\ with soprano soloist Susan Storey. Nativity.\ The Angel wHJ be sung by Carine Salon, soprano, Mary by Gretchen D' Armand, soprqno; and the Shepherd by Raml Reeves, tenor. The work win have orchestral ac- companiment. The Union College Men's Glee Club. will also be singing in the Memorial Ch,apel on Saturday, November 17, at 8:00p.m., in a concert.·· with the Rutgers Queens Chorale ftom Rutgers State University in New Jersey. General admission is $2, free to students and senior citizens. Following the intermission will be Hugh Allen Wilson conducting the Union College Men's Glee Club and the Smith College Glee Club in Ottoripo Respighi's \Laud to the Message Across Space I hear you Crying out loud For help, But I cannot be. There for the distance _ Between us is great By miles,. but · Not by the reaching out Of OW' Hearts. I feel you need A friend, Can I be that· someone? I know how you need To reach out and Have someone there, And I feel that you don!t Have that person by Your side. I wish I -were~there to Know the feeli.l\.gs you have And be able to comfort your Mind and sow, Yet I feel you need To discover things On your own And I don't want to Interiere with that cycle That must occur in everyone's Life · My mind is torfnented between The two choices, I shall leave it u.p to you. No, you are too troubled I fear to respond. · Therefore I shall Forever be by· your Side when times are Bad, and you need · A shoulder to Lean on, Cry Ofi, Sleep on. t~ I shall answer you · By a way that only You and I know. LOok for tlle sign That lets you -know I am coming . ~P.F. Please submit poems to Vicky Ed~y and Nell Skolnik,. Box 560. Night Club John · Kolisch, the in- ternationally acclaimed mentalist will be appearing this Saturday, Nov. 10 at the Night Club, sponsored by Union College Social Committee .• With his unsurpassed hyp· notic feats, Kolisch presents a unique program of audience participation. . .one that is both entertaining and thought provoking. · Kolisch invites 20 or more members of the audience to join hiD?. ons~age. Rapidly hyp. notizmg his volunteers (many in less than ten· seconds! ), K\olisch has gained the. reputation of the '(World's Fastest Hypnotist\. · Night Club tickets are four dollars and are available in the Student Activtties office. J bE L1 Cl A1 Tl is of kr Si is c. 18 b< Al s~ C1 T1 to th A c di H . .. ' m in pi F R a~ \ I pl B ('I 111 in di Ir pl M in m dJ Si tt e: F S: p B T pl bi tt tc: S: F

d, y, a CONOOND'I'ENSIS; \lvove'ml!ter .8, 19\19 .! -·· \Six Characters\ ~tripped by DEMETRA PON:&ISAKAS There is only one day left before the grand opening of Luigi \Pirandello's Six Characters in Search of An Author by the Nott Memorial Thespians, which means that it is time to strip away the masks of our aetors to let the campus know who's who in the cast of Six Characters. Playing the mle of the father is George SHet.zky-a Unian College graduate of the years 1879 through 1979. ·George has been in the casts of A Man for All Seas,ons, The Death of A Salesman, One Flew Over' the Cucko«}'·s Nest, Gary Glaubet's Tryout, and Ibsen's Peer Gynf to name a few. Be also played the part of Chrysalde in The Amorous Flea at Sc:henectady Civic Theatre under the direction of Union's Irma Hao1ilton, alild is· currently an \artist in residefiee\ at Union College. Sharon Rubin also holds a major part as the stepdaughter in this production, Sharon ·has played parts in Tw~lfth Night, Feiff.er's People, and Miss Reardon Drinks A Little, as well as having played the tyrannical \Salome\. iB last winter's produdion of The Robber Bridegroom. Her directing 1-redits include Ten Little Indians here- at Union, and an internship as an assistant director at the National Theatre Institute. Sharon has also had professional experience in Madam Pace's dress shop and in SUNY Albany summer stock. Vern a Lowe is doing a mar,yelous job. of creating the dramatic role of the mother in Six Char~cters. A veteran of the theatre at Union, Verna has executed the roles of \Nurse Flynn\ in Cuckoo's Nest, \Linda Loman\ in Death of A Salesman: \Marie\ · in Tom Paine, \Rosamund\ in Robber Bridegroom and \Lydia\ in Tryout. - Thomas H. Farrell will be playing the part of the ern· bittered, alienated son. Tom, a third year Arts major, has taken part in . Death of A Salesman, -Man for All Seasons, Feiffer's People, Tom Paine and tJ:1e Robber Bridegroom where he did a wonderful portrayal of \Cle.ffient Musgrove\ the wealthy land ·owner. He also was the stage manager of Ten Little Indians last Spring. · Playing the part of the director is Patti Chaifetz - a senior wor:nan who last year was . responsible for the magnificient choreography ·Of the Robber Bridegroom and the portrayal.of Emily in Ten Little Indians. Patti is currently in· xolved in the publication of a libretto entitled ''The Rise and Fall of the Roman Inflection\ which should prove to be quite a breath-taking publication. Playing the part of the elegant Madame Pace ·- the Italian bordello owner - is Demetra Pontisakos. \Demetra'' (a sophomore) has been in Tom Paine and has played the part of the Goat's Mo.ther in · the Robber Bridegroom. . Although it is exciting to note aU of the experienced actors that are taking ·part • in this production it is equally thrilling to realize how many new faces we have with us this term. Of the remaining eleven players, ten are new to Union theatre; there are four freshmen and four transfer students as well. The freshmen include Susan Kone Who bas had previous experience in high school ~ shows, stock _productions, and television commercials; Alan Binkow who played in twelve productions at his high school; Bambi Schlauch, who has played in summer stock and high school_ productions, and Barton Levine who is a very talented young man, ~but who hasn't filled · dul 'a little White index card for me so 1 •could give him due credit in this ar- · tide. The transfer students in- volved inclUde three English majors Carl Strang, who is new to the theatre experience, psa Livshan and Chris Phelan who didn't fill out lheir .little white index cards either. Also with us is Ed Horstman · - American Studies major who is also a neophyte to thf stage. The other new faces in the Maze bt MliCII CIIESS Nott are F'IJI brother Seth Mendelowitz and Debbie Garber rGoobsJ a senior math major. Also in the (ast is Adam Frey - famed juggler and fire eater who has taken par,t in such shows. as Tom Paine and Ten Little Indians .. The mixture 0f the new (lnd the old faces, under the direction of Barry Smith and Lelia Blake, and the stage management of Natalie Barandes, should prove to produce quite an astounding pieC'e of drama. Tickets are on sale in the Nott. You'll see me there .... ! \~ J French Horn Virtuoso . - PerfOrms Wifh Violinist Barry Tuckwell, the world's leading French Horn virtuoso, and renowned violinst James Buswell will perform at 8 p.m., Nov. 11, in Memorial Chapel of Union. This is the second concert in the series, \An Internationpl Festival of Chamber Music VIII,\ sponsored by Union and the Schenectady Museum. The internationally ac- claimed musicians, both artist members of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, will perform Beethoven, Men- delssohn, ~Sehurnann, Strauss, and Brahams. They have ' recorded ·l)rahams, Horn ;.'frio in -E flat major for London Records. Tuckwell is the acknowledged master of the French horn and is the only player to· have established a career exclusively as a soloist. In a New Yorker ''Profile,\ Winthrop Sargeant describes Tuckwell not only as · 'the finest horn player of the present generation,\ put adds, \one of the finest horn players who have ever lived.\ Proof of his success as a concert and recording artist is that he has recorded more solo works, and has had more works composed especially for him than any other player. This extraordinary musician per- forms over 200 concerts a year with leading orchestras all over the world. In 1968, he formed the Tuckwell Wind Quintet. As a scholar he is editing the entire horn literature for G. Schirmer, Inc.; he has just completed the definitive horn method, Playing tlte Hom, for Oxford University Press and is· currently writing a history of the horn. Recently he added conducting to his c.areer making his debut at London's South Bank Festival and in the future has , engagements in Europe, · Canada and the U.S.A. Buswell began piano lessons at the age of three, and shortly thereafter he started his study of the violin. Since his first public appe~rance at the age of sev\n Buswell has appeared with the majar . orchestras of North America, including the New York Philharmonic, the Chicago and Boston Symphony Orchestras, the Cleveland Orchestra, the San Francisco Symphony, the Los Angeles Philharmonic, the Pittsburgh Symphony, the Toronto and. Montreal Symphony Orchestras. He has also achieved outstanding success as a recitalist on several cross- country tours. Buswell made his London debut with the London Svm- phony Orchestra and Aridre Previn. With them h.e . also recorded for RCA RecordS the ·' Con'certo Accademico\ by Ralph Vaughan Williams. Since 1974 he has served. as .Artist in Residence and Conductor on the faculty of the Indiana University School of Music. Thomas Culley, professor of music at SUNY A will present a preview of the concert, \The Art of Listening to Music,\ at 7 p.m., Nov. 8 in the auditorium of '-~·'! ._:.;H~~··.,· : •• j •• _ ~ ~! ~- the Schenectady Museum. The presentation is ·free to the public. Culley will present a program before each of the remaining concerts. Tickets are $6 and available at the Community Box Office of Colonie Center, the Schenec- tady Museum and at the door at 7 p.m., prior to the concert. For more information and a sub- scription to the entire series contact the Schenectady Museum. ' . : ,_:. 1 '~:3 :lu d:•.n~J~ h ... ,.· ~ t. .• A ..... ...J-:;r ...... ~4¢'t···-:. .. First Act Second Act Rachel GerJzog & Karen W~isberger Eric Ruben MC Bill H<!ncock Thurs. Nov.8at9&11 Tickets on sale 8 p.m. in Carnegie ·Film Committee Presents: Three Stooges \In Orbit\ TUES 11·13 at 9:00 & 11:00 FRI ll-9 at 10:00 SAT-SUNll-10&11 at 9:00 & 11:00

·' , I l : I I ., .. ' . I : l < l • . • f : I . ' . ' . t . ' . i 1 Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, November 8;, 1919 Monday, December 3 9:00 · 11 :00 a.m .. ALE I first Te (IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is for regular ''day\ un- dergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate Studies and Continuing· Education courses wUl be announced, and students in \Section 51\ cou~ses shouid be alert for the an- nouncement of the _exam time for those courses, excluding Statistics 201, Section 51, which is included here.) English 14~:-Studies in Special Topics: Politics and the Modern · Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Lapidus in the Office of the Registrar hot la~er than Mondij.y, November 26, 1979. Novel--Pawelczak--HU 115· · French 12--Basic French III--McDermott--HU 112 'Spanish 133.·-The Spanish Language tn Practical Use I·-Vinick-· HU 110 Biology 32--Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy-·Butterstein--BU 100 . Biology 168--Cellular Neurophysiology--Lambert--N 222 Chemistry 40--Quantitative Chemistry--Scnaefer--BH 203 Geology 51--0ceanography--Zimmerman--BH 201 Physics 15--P:rinciples of Modem Physics I--Jones--N 116 Psychology 24--Social Psychology--Downing--PY 113 Psychology 46-.J:ntroduction to Psychobiology--Markiewicz··PY 102 E.S. 24--Elecb;ic Circuits--Russ--SH 101 E.S. 34--Systerns Analysis•-Jewell--BU 300 C.E.. 42--Soil Mechanics--Harlow--BU 106 E .E. 30--System Theory I --Goodheart--SS 115 ·Computer Science 14--COBOL and Information Processing--T. , Schwarz--BH 207 . AOP 8--Pre.:Calculus Mathematics--Fisher~-HU 114 Monday,: December 3 2:00 · 4:00 p.m. Freshman PreceptoriallO--Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 5--H. Ouelette-~Hu 016 · Classics 24--Greek Art and Civhization--Reece--OC Greek 10--Principles of Greek 7 -Ketterer--HU 110 Greek 137--Greek Oratory--Ketterer--HU 110 Economics 11--Elementary Economics, Sec. 2--S. Schmidt--SS 012 Economics 132--Labor and Industrial Relations--Prosper--SS 115 History 35--Europe in the Early Moder.p Era-·Hansen--SS 112 History 125--The Intellectual Tradition of American Diplomacy-- J onas--SS 113 History 187--Modern Jewish History--Berk--SS 117 German 12--Basic German III--Kellenter--Hb 114 Spanish 12--Basic Spanish III--Vinick--HU 019 Philosophy 12--Philosophical Problems--Baker--HU 117 Political Science 13--Contemporary Politfcal Analysis--Nichols-- BH~104 Political Science 162-~Judicial System-·Daniels--SS 914 Sociology 10--Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 1--Kapian--HU 115 American Studies 10--Sarvey of American Culture I--Nye--HU 116 Biology 12--The Cell~Core III --G. Smith--SS 016 ....- Biology 145--Pro'tozoology--Styles--N 116 Chemistry 10--Fundamental- Chemistry I Sec. 1--Hayes--BU 204 Sec. 2--Quaal--BU 204 Sec. 3--Scaife--BU 204 Sec. 4--Hayes--BU 204 Sec. 5--Werner-.-BU 204 Physics 13--Introduction to Physics II (Physics and Engineering Majors)--Titus--SH 106 Physics 136--Classical Mechanics--Reich--SH 219 Psychology 10-·A First Course in Psychology' Sec. 3--Britain--PY 113 Sec. 4--Girdner--PY 213 . Psychology 35--0rganizational Psychology--Downing-- PY 102 E.S. 20--Mechanics II, Sec. 1--Pikul--SH 101 C.E. 41--Legal Aspects of Engineering--Harlow--BU 106 C.E. 45--Water Resource$--Snow--BU 300 M.E. 30--Dynamics of Linear Systems Sec. 1--Bingham--BH 2'07 Sec. 2--Bingham--BH 207 Computer Science p--FORTRAN Programming for the Social Sciences-·Hannay--BU 109 Computer Science 12--FORTRAN Programming for the Sciences, Sec. 2--Goodheart--BH .201 Computer Science 131--Introduction to Compilers·-Goldbogen--HU 112 ·Tuesday, D•c8mbe._.- ·4 9:00 · 11.:00 a.m. ·.' - J Freshman Preceptorial tO--Perception and PersuasiQn, S~e. 3-- Bick--BH 106 . . Freshman Elective 66--Intelligent Life in the Universe-·Ohanian-- BU 106 . . .- Liberal Learning 50•-Special· Topics in Geology- .. D. Stone-•N 116 Economics 10--:Elementary Economics, . Sec. 1·-:Prosper--SS 115 Economics 11--Elementary Economics, Sec. 1--Wiese--SS 117 Economics 166--American .Economic Growth--Lewis--SS 112 Englis·h 111--Modem Drama--Ullmann--HU 116 English 119--Major .English Authors I--M. Ouellette--HU 114 History 10--Historyand Society: The Ernerg.ence and Character of Traditional Civilization--Hansen, Wells--HU 115 History 18--Emergence of Modem America, 1885-1929--Jonas-·SS 113 History 64;·The Spanish and Portuguese Empires in America - Bristol--SS 014 , , French 10--Basic French I.--McDermott--HU 014 . German 10--Basic Q.errnan 1--Warde--HU 117 Spanish 10--Basic Spanish I--Valdes--HU 110 Political Science 12--Conternporary International Politics-- Johnson--HU 112 Sociology 34--Rac.e and Ethnic Relations--Weiner--SS 012 Statistics tO--Introduction to Statistics, Sec. 1---Schmidt--HU 019 Biology 14--Biology of Animals-Core I-,Roth--SS 016 Biology 54--Chordate Embryology--Rappaport--BH 205 . Chemistry 150--Physical Chemistry I--Anderson--N 222 Mathematics 100--0rthogonal Functions and Boundary Values-- Fairchild--BH 104 · _ Mathematics 136--Real Variable Theory I--David--BH 203 Physics 11--Introduction to Physics I (Biology, Science, Humanities and Social Science Majors)--Peak-·BH 201 Psychology 10--A First Course in PsycqolQgy Sec. 1--Nydegger--PY 113 Sec. 2--Greenberg--PY 102 _ Psychology 31--Abnormal Psychology--Spring--PY 213 E.S. 22--Science of Engineering Material:S·-Milillo--BU 109 E.S. 30--Me-chaniCs of Deformable Solids, Sec. 1--Panlilio--SH 100· Computer Science 12--FORTRAN Programming for the Sciences, Sec. 1--Branch--BH 207 - . . ' Tuesday, December·~ 2:00 · 4:00 p.m. Art SO--Introduction to Art History II--Bush--OC English 176--The American Novel II--Gado-7HU 112 History 176--Modern Japan-~Thurston--SS 113 · Literature in Translation 69--Introduction to Chinese Civilization-- Suen.;-·HU 110 .,. Philosophy 33--Nineteenth Century Philosophy--Rothermel-~HU 116 Political Science 151--.American Foreign Policy--Johnson--SS 117 Statistics 10--Introduction to Statistics, Sec. 2--Lambrinos,BH 203 Statistics 201--Introduction to Probability and Statistics--Schmee-- BH 205 ¥athematics 14--Calculus III Sec. 1·-Bick--BB 201 Sec. 2--Cole--BU 109 Sec. 3--Gillette--BH .207 Psychology 48--Clinical Models of Psychotherapy 1--Dowling--PY 113 . Psvchology 62--Practicum in Human Relations I--Girdner--PY I ·~ AB- BH- BU- HU- N-11 9:i Fre Thu F.E Lib~ ss ~ Libt 222 Ece 019 En~ En! Eng Hist Hist Hist Fre. Ger Spa: Phi] 116 Poli HU Soci Bio1 Bioi Bioi Mat -BH Phy Hu11 Phy Psy py Psy py Psy E.S :m.s K.S E.E Pro Con -BU 2:1 Chir . Chir Heb Heb -HU Rus: RUSi HU A CCI E.S. E.S. SE SE

. . ,- OONOORDiE'N8JS1 November 8, 19\19 Page 9 I 979-80 . . - .... Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms, Listed below is the code ofJhe buildings to~ be used. . AB..-.Art.s Building OC-.Old Chapel BH-Bat.ley Hall. PY -Psychology Laboratory BU -Butterfield Hall SS-Social Sciences Bldg. HU -Humanities Building SH-Steinmetz Hall N-North WfngaScience-Engr. Center We,dnes·da.y, Decemb 7 er 5 ' - 9:00 · 11 :00 a.m. \ . Freshman Preceptorial~ 10--Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 8-- Thurston--SS 113 \ F.E. 75-:.The Bioiogy of Sex--Lamhert-·N 116 Liberal Learning 33.:--The Nature and Function of Law--N. Alleil-- SS 012 Liberal Learning 8fi-·Simplistic Modeling of Behavio.r--Russ--N 222 Economics 143--Economic Growth and Developm.\ent--W 019 English 125--IntroducU.on to Shakespeare..;-M. Ouellette--HU 117 English 162- ... Ni.neteenth Century NoveJ-·Ullmann--HU 117 English 16'9--Modem British Fiction--Pawelczak~-HU 112 History 14--Colonial Period '-of -America, ·1607-1776--Wells--SS 112 History 124-·From Slave Power to Black Power--Clinton--SS 010 History ~58--Russia jn the Imperial Age~-Berk--SS 117 French 132--Masterworks of French Literature--Thomas-·HU 110 German 137--Gerrrtan Literature since 1945--Kellenter--HU 014 Spanish 142-~The Spanish-American Novel--Valdes--HU 016' Philosophy 15-·Philosophy and Existential Literature--Patrik--HU 116 Political SciE:mce 10--Contemporary Political Analysis--Brown-- HU 114 - Sociology 10--Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 2--Huggin:s--SS 115 Biology 51--Ecology--George--BH 106 Biology 150--Evolut~onary Biology~-J: Boyer-·BH 201 Biology 180--Biochemistry--Birecka--BH 102 .. Mathematics 18--Introduction to Logic and Set Theory--Rosenthal- ·BH 108 Physics 13--Introduction to Physics II (Biology, Science, Humanities and Social Science Majors)--Hall--BH 207 Physics 48--0ur Physical Environment--Schick--SH 100 Psychology 10--A First Course in Psychology, Sec, 0\--Markiewicz-- PY 113 Psychology 20--Statistical Methods in Psychology--Greenberg-- PY 213 · - . Psychology 30·-Personality--Nydegger--PY 102 E.S. 20--Mechanics II, Sec .. 2-Panlilio-·BU 106 E.S. 26--Thermodynam:ics and Heat Tran~ter--Aubrey--BU 204 N.S. 30--Mechanics of Deformable Solids, Sec. 2--Pikul--BH 104 · E.E. 152-.;Microprocessors and Microcomputers: Archite-cture, Programming and Applications~-Gajjar--SH 101 _ Computer Science 17--Introduction to Computer Science--Hannay- ·BU 109 Wednesda:y,- D-ecember 5 2:00 · ~:00 p.m. ' Chinese 10·-Basic Intensive Chinese 1--Suen--HU 110 Chinese 130--Intermediate Intensive Chinese 1--Suen--HU 110 Hebrew 10·--Basic Hebrew 1--Heckelman--HU 115 Hebrew 133--The Hebrew Language in Practical Use--Heckelman- ·HU 115 . Russian 10·--Basic Russian I--.Jernakoff--HU 117 Russian 133--The Russian LangUage in Practical Use--Jemakoff-- FnJ 117 . Accounting .10--Financial Ac.eounting--Hurley--BH 207 E.S. 16--Engineeripg ·Graphics and Cornputers--Jewell--BU 204 E.S. 18--The Digital Computer Sec. 1--Gajjar--BH 201 Sec. 2·-Galantowicz--BH 104 thurSday, December 6 9:00 · 11:00 a.m . Mathematics 10--Calculus I Sec. 1--Gillette--BH 207 Sec. 2--Muckenfuss--BU 100 Sec.- 3--F~irchild·-BH 104 Se.c. 4·-Seiken--.SS 115 Sec. 5--Cole--BH 203. Sec. 6--Stone--BH 201 Sec. ·7--Rosen--BU 106 Sec. 8--Zwicker--HU 115 Sec. 9--Barbanel--BH 205 Sec. 10--Zwicker•-HU 115 Sec. 11--Delaney--BH 108 Sec. 12--Rosenthal--BH 106 Sec. 13--Muckenfuss--BU 109 Mathe~atics 12--Calculus II Sec. 1--Stone--BH 201 Sec. 2·-Gillette--BH 207 Mathematics 30--0rdlnary Differential Equations Sec. 1--David-·BH 10.2 Sec. 2--Seiken--SS 115 Physics 132--Electricity and Magnetism 1--Newrnan--N 222 Thursday, December 6 2:00 · 4:00 p.m. Economics 10--Elementary Economics -Sec. 4--R. Ginsberg--SS 016 Sec. 5--R. Ginsberg--SS 016 Philosophy 42--Ethies--Taylor--HU 115 Chemistry SO--Organic Chemistry I Sec. 1--Sheffer--BU 204 .. .,r~~ Sec. 2--Sowa--BU .204 ·-,_ ... · :. · · Friday,· December 7 -9:00 • 11 :00 a.m. Latin 10--Principles·of Latin-·Reece--EU 110 Latin 138--Lyric and Elegiac Poetcy--Reece--HU 110 French 20--Intensive French--F. Bush-·HU 112 Philosophy 20--Classical Logic--Peterson--HU 114 Pol~tic~l Science 120--Social Data Analysis--Hartwig--SS 112 Soc~ology 39--Sociology of the Family~-Kaplan--SS 115 SociOlogy ~2--Social Date Analysis--Hartwig-•SS 112 · Mathematics 41--Linear Algebra I Sec. 1--Barbanel--BH 201 Sec. 2--Rosen--BH 201 Physics 11--Introduction to Physics I (Engineering, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics Majors) Sec. 1--Reich--BU 109 Sec. 2-·0panian--BH 108 Sec. 3--Pilcher--BH 205 Psychology 38~·Developmental Psycholc>gy-·Britain--PY 213 , E.S. 21--Introductory Electric Circuits Sec·. 1--Deallenbach--BH 207 Sec. 2--Deallenbach--BH 207 Sec. 3--Branch--HU 115 C.E .. 35--Water Resourc~s and the Env1ronment--Snow-·BU 204 AOP 1--CoUege Science--Burr·-HU 116 Friday, December 7 2:00 · 4:00 p~m. Music 10--Introduction to Music--Wilson--AB 204 Economics 10--Elementary Economics See. 2-~Kiein--SS 016 Sec. 3--Klein--SS 016 Economics 142·-Macroeconomic Theory and Policy,..-Kershner--SS 112 . Economics 145--.Managerial Economics--Kenney--SS 117 History 112--SoClal Aspects of American Capitalism --Finkelstein-- SS 113 Histor~ 163--Women in Latin America--Bristol, Hugglns·-SS 115 Philosophy 44--Political Philosophy·-Baker--HU 112 Sociology 190--Women in Latin America--Bristol, I:Iuggins--SS 115 Ad.m. & Mgt. 150--Fundamentals of Behavioral Science-- Griesinger--SH 100 Psychology 44--Experimental Psychology I--Huntley--PY 102 C.E. 20--Land Measurements: Theory and Application--Male--BU 109 . /

Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS, November 8, 1979 ----A B.L.A.S. by ROY JACKSON The Black Student Alliance, known to everyone as the BSA, has recently changed its name to BLAS, the Black and Latin Alliance Of Students. The primary reason .for the name change is to incorporate the Latin students at Union into the organization. In the last two years, the ·membership of BSA has increased noticeably, enabling the organization to .conduct various cultural ac- tivities which range from guest speakers to an organizational newspaper called \Per- spective.\ Early this fall. BLAS elected new officers . to its ad- ministraUve · board. Myles Orosco and Kevin' Mattison have· been . elected as co- chairmen and Steve Furman is now treasurer. The initial goal of BLAS is. tp. initiate cultural enlightenmeDt hy providing· numerous educational and social programs. Probably the:. twQ most im~ portant .progra:ms within the BLAS, concern the \Per- spective\ newspaper and guest speakers, both· under the auspices of the Political Awareness Committee. BLAS will be publishing a bi-monthly newspaper that will acquaint Union students with news ar- ticles, short stories, poems and other literary material written by black and Latin students. BLAS als~ sponsors guest , speakers from various fields which range fr~m·. poets .. CJnd : ' writers to ·rrn'pbma:n.t · politfc::U · figures. , In addition to these programs, BLAS has constructed a tutorial program available for students with any major who may need aid from time te time. Another important function of the BLAS is to provide, as much as possible , various social func- tions for not only the black and Latin students but for any other student who may be interested. Recently, BLAS sponsored a very successful evening of Jazz in the Cabaret Room in Car- negie Hall. The music was performed by an impressive group named \Subway.\ Also present ·at the performance were two speakers, one representing the Youth Division of the NAACP for the state of New York and another representing Affirmative Action in New York State. BLAS is· a newly spirited organi:~<ation with fresh idea'S and aspirations. It hopes t0 increase its programs to benefit minority stude,nts and cordially invites Union students to par- ticipate in the activities it sponsors. I.F.C .. 'News by DANIEL MAY The most recent meeting of the Inter-Fratemity Council began with Ka.tJpa Sigma's petition for IFC membership. Kappa-Sigma, re-chart~red at· Union two weeks ago after a long absence, mentioned their ·fine house grade-point average, successful rush, and charity work -in their bid for mem- bership: The 'iFC then overa whelmingly voted to welcome Kappa Sigma as a new .mem- her. As outlined in the new IFC constitution, a council conduct committee was formed to hear grievances against Greek houses. The conduct committee consists of president Andy Audet, vice-president Thomas Sheehen and Andrew Boulger of Delta Chi. This COJVmittee plans to work closely with Dean Kellet, who warns all houses to use good judgment during the fG.rthcoming pledge peri.o{l. Considering the high cost of the oft-stolen composite pictures, all houses would benefit from mutual respect for property. By today most houses have given bids to prospective pledges. The IFC recommends that all freshmen car~fully consider your choice before selecting a house that suits you so that your brotherhood will be a rewarding segment of your years at Union. As mentioned before, .bid bo~es will be in Carnegie Nov. 11, 12, and 13 during lunch and ·dinne1· hours. Any Gre.ek member who can work at the bid box during these hours may call Tom Sheehen at Delta Phi ( 382-9159 ).. Bid matching will take ·place at the next meetipg on Tuesday, 'Nov. 13, at.7:30. Party Dates: The IFC is already making plans for the annual IFC Ball. Anyone who wishes to help may contac~ · Andy- Audet at Beta (370-6575). Honors Earlier this fall the Con- cordiensis printed ap article concerning the commencement of the new Steinmetz Honors . C~r~culqni. 'f'he. p;ogt,f;lm. w:as described, ip a letter sent out thi'$fall to selected· ·sophomores .,'_-AREA CALENDA-R----~\' .·LECTURE November 13--Dr. Bruce Bailey of the Atmospheric Sciences Research Center will present a lecture on \Energy in the Air: The Wind Alternative.\ This noon hour lecture will be held at the New York State Musewn is sponsored by the N.Y. State Education Depart- ment. For more information contact: Jim Sifcik 518-474-5842. November 15-Thomas Cahill, chairperson, has announced that the Schenectady County Unit of the American Cancer Society is sponsoring a · teaching Day on \Life · threatening Illness i:n the Schools.\ The program is for educators and interested parents. It will take place from 5-9 p.m. at the Ramada Inn, Erie Boulevarde and Nott Street, Schenectady, New York. For .further information contact the American Cancer Society office, Schenectady County Unit, 1596 Rugby Road. November 18-•Dr. Sarah Blacher Cohen will explore the conflict between secularism and Hasidism as portrayed in Chaim Potok's novel The Chosen. The lecture is part of the Jewish~American. Literature Lecture Series. It will be held at 1:30 p.m. at the New York State Museum. For further information, call 474- 5842. November 18-The Schools of Social Work of the New York Metropolitan Area will present a lecture · on the ·EDUCATIONAL OPPORTU- . NITIES IN SOCI{\L WORK: A LOOK TOWARD THE 1980's. Gary A. Lloyd, Ph.D. will be the speaker. The lecture and small informal group meetings will be ~eld from 1-4:30 p.m. at the Loo:b Student Center'· New York University. For further in- formation, call 280-2856. MUSIC November 16-17-The Albany Symphony Orchestra, under the baton of Julius Hegyi, will perform the .North American premiere of ·Finnish composer Aulis Sallinen's Sinfonia II, Friday, Nov.16, 8:30p.m. ~t the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall and Saturday, Nov. 17, 8:30 p.m., at the Albany Palace Theatre. The program will also include works by Wagner, Haydn, Chavez and Ravel. For ticket reservations and in- formation call the Palace Theatre Box Office at 51R-465- 3334. November 16-18--Charlie Maguire will appear at Caffe Lena, 45,Phila Street, Saratoga Springs, from Nov. 16-18. He's a songwriter in the Woody Guthrie tradition writing about farmers, truckdrivers, the environment, children and human experiences. For further information call 584~9789. November 17-David Eyges, jazz cellist and Byard Lan- caster, alto saxophonist, will perform on Saturday, Nov.17 at 8 p.m. at the Eba Chapter Ho~e Theater, 351 Hudson Avenue m Albany. For further in- formation call 465-9916. November 18--The Student Percusssion Ensemble will perform at SUNY Albany's Performing Arts Center Qn Nov. 18. The concert will take place at 7:30 p.m. at the Main Theatre. For further in- formation call 457-8606. November 19--Margaret MacArthur and her musical familv will perform in concert Monday, Nov. 19 at 8 p..m. at St. Mark's Co'mmunity Center, Guilderland Center. Old Songs Inc. is sponsoring this evening of traditional music from Vermont and other regions. For · further information call 765- 4193. ' THEATER November 14--The curtain goes up on Wednesday, Nov. 14 on the second season of The Four Seas<lns Dinner Theater at , Albany's Thruway Hpuse when producers Mimi and Barry Scott present Gypsy. Gypsy is fl nostalgic, \show-biz\, musical account of a Burlesque Queen's making. Directed by Dick ·Feldman, Gypsy will run Nov. 14-Dec, 2 with performances on Wednesdays through Sundays. Patrons will enjoy a full course sit-down dinner at 7 p.m. with the performance beginning at 8:30p.m. For reservations call 459-3100 and for further in- formation call 438-3985. ~ November 14-17, Novovember 28-D.ecember 1-A University Theatre Production of Boy Meets Girl, a comedy in three acts by Bella and Samuel Spewack, will be staged in the University at Albany's Per- forming Arts Center Studio Theatre by artist-in-residence John Milligan on Thurs.-Sat., · Nov. 14-17 and Nov. 28-Dec. 1 at 8 p.m. For further information call 457-8606 or 458-7530. November 14--The Albany· County Women's . Republican Club are planning a romantic evening of \Wine and Roses\ for opening night of the Four Seasons Theatre at the Thruway House on Weds., Nov. 14. For further information call Ms. Ruth Swingle at 785-9517.' • . j PU'S· and juniors, as a major new program for students who enjoy intellectual challenges a:nd thrive on serious discussion.\ The first course in the curriculum is being offered in the Winter Term. Professor Byron Nichels, Director of the Steinmetz Curriculum, invites any students to apply for the honors seminar. The course is restricted to a maximum of twenty individuals. Students should obtain recommendations from faculty in their depart- ments. The course· is titled \the Logic o\f Inquiry,'' and will be taught by Professors Jan Ludwig, Dave Peek, and Nichols. There wi.ll be five specific topics dealt with in the course, they are: 1. The standard model of scientific ·inquiry 2. Challenges to the model 3. The .social sciences attempt to copy this model 4. The challenges in the social sciences 5. Alternative logics of inquiry: . a. Mysticism (Buddhism, in particular) b. Artificial intelligence c. Literary creativity. The readings in the course will be a combination of scientists, social scientists, and people in the humanities writing about what they do. Stu9ents will write and present short papers for each meeting of the seminar. There will also be a larget research pr-oject con- cerning the logic of inquiry. Students who wish to apply - should inquire in the Dean of Faculty's office, and any fur- ther questions regarding the program should be addressed to ··one of the three faculty mem- bers. · ' World Hunger Malthus Qnce observed that while the number of people multiplied geometrically, the corresponding food supply in ultiplied arithmetically. Increasingly the questio~ of an adequate food supply becomes front page news. Wheat deals with the . Russians and the question of food for fuel have political implications which seemingly override the need of those suffering from malnutrition. On November 9th, Daniel Shaughnessy will be speaking at Union. Presently, Mr. Shaughnessy is the Executive Director of the Presidential Commission on World Hunger., The Commission's report is scheduled to be released around Thanksgiving. In this report many issues .are discussed including the scope of the problem, the effectiveness of international organizations to deal with it, and specifically what obligation's the U.S. has to help obliterate world hunger. His previous experience in- cludes directing the food for Peace branch and Food and Nutrition Division of the U.S. Embassy in New· Delhi, India, Director, Foreign Assistance Food for Development Division of A.I.D. (the Agency for International Development), Food Policy Specialist on the personal staff of former Senator Hubert Humphrey, Peputy Director of U.S. Government Preparations for World Con- ference, and Deputy C_oor- dinator of U.S. Food for Peace Pro grain. His A.I.D. career culminated in 1978, when he was awarded the Distinguished Honor Award, the highest prize given by the . Agency for International Development. On Thursday, Nov. 9, at 3:30 in Strauss Lounge, Mr. Shaughnessy will discuss the issue of world hunger and policy. A question and ~~n~wer period wHUollow. Refreshments will be served. S.E.A.: . Tuna by GARY BOWITCH We all like to go to the pub or skellar and have that \ti.ma on white~' but many people are totally unaware of the process by which the tuna Jish gets to their .plate. When we open that can of light or dark tuna,. we rarely think of how this fish was caught. This kind' of tuna is ca~ght by the tuna industry's fleets of fishing boats. on the west coast. Mile-long nylon nets are ·used to catch tremendous quantities of tuna .. In fact the quantities are. so large that the tuna catch in 1976 was valued at 246.2 million dollars. At first glance, this seems like a purely in:nocent business ent.erprise. The process becomes grotesque, ho:wever, when one discovers that hun- dreds of thousands of dolphins are also caught in these 'tuna nets.. . Since dolphins are mammals they must come to the surface in order to breathe. Since they often swim with the schools of tuna, dolphins get their long beaks caught in the tuna nets. As a r~s~l~, tq~y !i.re ,un-abl~ to breathe and suffocate. In the last fifteen years, about six million dolphins were killed by 'the tuna industry. During the first part of this decade, 250,000 to 400,000 dolphins died in tuna nets each year. In the past few years, as a result of public outrage, court actions and work by the Fund for Animals, tens of thousands of dolphins were saved. The problem is. however, that this is not satisfactory. The tuna in- dustry is stubbornly nesisting any change in their fishing practices. They have made some .changes in equipment and technique, but this has only been due to public and legislative pressure, ln general, thev are unconcerned about the plight of the dolphin. It is up to us, the public, to take action by boycotting tuna products. In this way, we will convince the tuna industry to amend its fishing process. Mystic Credit . Susan Stucke, Interpreter at the Mystic Seaport Museum, Mystic Connecticut, will hold an open meeting for interested students on the program \American Maritime Studies,\ on Tuesday, November 27, at 1:00 P.M. This .. program is directed by Professor Benjamin Labaree at · Mystic Seaport, under the aegis of Williams Continued oil pag~ 11 Ceteris · Paribus, the Economics Club, presents an informal talk by Professor Bruce L. Reynolds entitled \China in Transition.\ Professor Reynolds recently returned from a three-week · -research effort in China. The group will meet on Thursday, November 15, 1979 in SSllO. • 0 ColJ ere< run Sep1 M c.f'B Hisl was Pro She My! am -\'Squ tecl pro~ .TJ th.e S€it Slid Pro and Me1 proi intE ma1 the Fa< (x6: Brc ,forr fice 100. ' 1 p \vin ava Re·1 Ad! beg 12tl pro the: do for gra me1 pla1 Stu gra Off pia a r pol I da· Ho Tu Sir Fr rec pu: I (H 22· WE Tu Sa WE WE Sa Tu Tu ·Sa To AI: . Po 191 COl all no de pU re! 1.[ fir

:30 on to of is of to na a nd de to to .QONOORDIENSIS, November 8, 1919 Page 11 ---- ... -A round Camp us----- Continued from page 10 College, and will be granted credit by Union College; it will run dul:\~g the Fall Term 1980, September 2 to I>ecember 16. Ms. Stucke is a 1978 gra~uate of Bates College with ·a major in History. In the Fall of 1977, she was a participant in the Mystic Program during its initial year. She is now an Interpreter at the Mystic Seaport Musewn, and is a member of the Demonstration #Squad, a. group who display the techniques of maritime · procedures. . The meeting will take place in th,e Dean's Conference Room; Scderice !lid Engineering S-100, Slides will· be shown df the Program, now in its third year, and o·f' the Seaport. Fran Messina, '79, also attended the program in 1977. M you have interests · in any ~ a-reas of maritime studies, please .attend the meeting and let the Dean of Faculty, E:au,la Brownle:e· (x6233), know of YQ.Ur interest. BroChures and application ·:rorms are available in her of·. ' fice, Science am:l Engineering S- 100. Win.ter the end'of fall term, if they have not already done so. · Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of November 12-16. Some departments may announce spedal•arrangements for ad- vising. Please be ;:1lert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, November 19th. A ten dollar_ ($10.00) late fee will be assessed. thereafter. ·s-.Man S .. - . ultes: by GENE VANORE ·Beginning in winter term, the current housing problem ~ill be alleviated. According to David Wood, Director of Ht>Using, lowest occupancy exists in the winter. due _to terms taken abroad. Tenn. Presently, there are 26 five- man suites as opposed to 31- . earlier in the·year and one triple compared to the once nine. The problem exists -only among the men. After this term, \all of these will be eliminated except - · those who want to stay,\ stated Wood. Pre.registration materials ft>r \vinter term 1979-80 will be available at .the Office of the Registrar, · Room . ~' Administration· Building, beginning . Monday, November 12th. Students are urged to promptly secqre· th~ir copy of these materials. ·sru:denfs ·who do not plan to return to. Union for the winter term, except for graduating seniors, must im- mediately· give . notice of their _ plans to the O{ficeof the Dean of Students. Potential December graduates should· inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at Dan CaligQr, freshman, rooms in a five-man suite. He said, \I think we should be in corner suites. Five people is really too many in the regular sized ones; -it is a problem deciding where the fifth man should go. Three people are too many in a side room and, if he is in the middle room, it's un- fortunateJor ~verypo~y.\ . . _ .Eric Ru~n, freshman, is in the same suite. \It's the quantity and not the quality of the people· I'm disturbed by. I find I have to do a lot more work · in the library due to having an extra person areund. It's tougher to concentrate on work.\ However, when asked if they Hockey Tickets The -1979-80 Union College Hockey Season is soon to begin, and as a reminder we are listing 'below the ticket pick-up schedule and policy: Please note: For your cqnvenience, we have scheduled two (2) days for ticket pick-ups.\' ·· - Home Hockey Game Tues., Nov. 20, 1979--Codland Sat., Dec. 1--Buffalo Fri., Dec. 14--Eimira --College ·recess Pick-Up Dates Thurs., Nov~ 15 & Fri., Nov. 16 Wed., Nov. 28 & Thurs., Nov. 29 Mon., Dec. 10-& Tues., Dec. 11 Please r:~ote: • The following games occur during the College recess andwi II be on sale frm December 3oft. Thes~ tickets are for purcha.se only, Fri., Dec. 218. Sat., bee. 22--UNION HOLIDAY TOURNAMENT (Hamilton, Oswe.go, Holy Cross & Union): 11-21-79, 6 & 9 p.m.; 12- 22-79-, 5 & il p.m. Wed.'2, 1980-~Salem State --college recess Tues., Jan. 8, 1980--North Adams Sat., Jan. 12--0swego Wed., Jan. 23-\Piattsburgh Wed., Jan. 30--Middlebury Sat., Feb. 2--Holy Cross · J;ri.&Dec. 28 & Mon., Dec. 31, 1979 Mon., Jan. 7 & Tues., Jan. B Mon., Jan. 7 & Tues., Jan. 8 Moh., Jan. ZJ & Tues., Jan. 22 \. X Mon., Jan. 21 & Tues., Jan. 22 Thurs.-; Jan. 31 & Fri., Feb. 1 Jan. 31 & Fri., Feb. 1 Tues., Feb. 5--Brockport--Thurs., Tues., Feb. 19,-Potsdam Fri., Feb. 15 & Mon., Feb. 18 Fri. 1 Feb, 15 & Mon ,, Feb. 18 Fr.i., Feb. 15 & Mori ,, Feb. 18 · Sat., i=eb. 23--WestfieJd Tues., Feb. 26·-New Haven ' . Also for Purchase Only on sale from Feb. 4, 1980 on--Feb. 10, W80-- . . Polish Olympic Team!. Sunday at z p.m. (preliminary gam~ to.:Ule 1980 Winter -Olympics) -· All home contests b~gin at.8 p.m. unless otherwise noted. All full time Students, Faculty ahd Staff will be entitled to complimentary tickets upon showing their valid I.D. card on the allotted dates listed above. Tickets will be given out on lhese dates-- no e;><ceptions. . · It is imperative that you sit in no other seat but the one designated on your ticket. Fai'lur-e to do so will result in your ex- pu.lsi.on froh1 the garrre and the r.escinding of your ti~ket privileges. Box Office Hours: 8:30 a.m.-4:30p.m. . Extra Ticket Procedure: In the event that there are tickets reh1aining at the close of the announced pick up dates, any valid I.D. card holder may purchase additional tickets on a first come, first served basis_ af the regular ticket price. would leave when given the chance, each said he was too content wtth everything else. ''I'd.stay. It's a good donn and a good floor,\ stated Ruben. Suites with only three oc- cupants (due to one person withdrawing from the college) will also be fillecl in winter term. Another unique situahon was two freshmen women in North College, which i.g primarily for upperclass women. Wood explained, \That was a last minute thing. There had been two withdrawals; their placement w.as by default.\ The housing picture is, in- deed, crowded. ''I would like to · see additional housing for about 180 people,\ stated Wood. ''We sometimes get overbooked and it's-difficult to g_':l.uge it.'' Jewell Award Thomas K. Jewell, instr.ucto~ of civil engineering at .Ynion College, ha& been awarded the Wesley W. H.Qmer Award by the American Society of Civil · Engineers ( ASCE). The award, presented jointly to Jewell and fellow engineers, Donald. D: Adrian of the University of Mas~chusetts, and Thomas J. Nunno of the GCA Corporation, was based on their paper, \Methodologt for Calibrating. Stormwater Modeis,\·published in the June issue of the Jeuraal . of the Environmeatal En.giaeeriag Division of -ASCE. 'f.he awards were conferred at the recent annual convention of ASCE conducted in Atlanta, Ga. The trio of engineers devised an improved method for ~alibrating stonnwater models, a development that will assist consulting engineer-s in plan- ning and designing stormwater systems. A graduate of the U.S. Military Academy with a masters degree from the University of Massachusetts,_ Jewell retired from the Anny in 1973 with the rank of captain. He is completing work on his Ph.D. at the University of Massachusetts on the subject, \Urban Stormwater Pollutant I:oadings.H Jewell served in Vietnam and won a nwnber of awards iii- eluding the Bronze Star, Army Commendation Medal with Oak Leaf ·clusters, Air Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal, and the Vietnam Campaign Medal. - Humo.r? by ANDREW TALLMER Due to the popularity of clubs such as the Blackboard Erasing Society, Union's Student Tax: Committee, i.n its infinite regard for the interests of students, has seen fit to fund even more organizations. The STC, according to its spokesman, G.R. · Aft, wants students to gain respect for Continued oa Pt~ge 14 Student Environmental Alliance presents GREEN PEACE \ NEW ENGLAND A Speaker & 2 Films on whale P!Otection- Thurs., Nov 8 Lower Hale Hoose Lounge Free Admission Tickets On Sale New Union College ' O:epartment Of The Arts Presents SIX CHARACTERS IN SEARCH OF AN AUTHOR By Luigi. Pirandello November 9 I 1 0, 11 I 141 15 161 17 Nott Memorial Theater aax Office Open 1-5 p.rn. ''Zero In Conduct'' Tuesday night at 7:30 p.m., the Foreign Language Department presented the film \Zero in Conduct\ by Jean Vigo. The film was shown in Strauss Lounge and was open to all students, free of admission, and wine and cheese were served after the film. \Zertl in Conduct\ which was in. French with English su_btitles, is a classic black and white film, created in- 1933. The film cen- tered around a bo~s· boarding school which tm Alumni Day rose. up in an organized revolt against the administration of the school. . · · There was a large turnout for the film and everyone seemed to enjoy it. Gene Kliot, who has . begun to organize a French Club this year, was enthusiastic about the response to the first French Club activity of the year and plans to arrange for more activities in the futlU'e. The French Club presently holds a \French Table\ lunch every Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. in the Pub, which gives those students interested in speaking French with other students a chance to do so. These French lwtches are open to all students. The French Club, which is at this time an unchartered organization, hopes to be officially chartered within the year. Anyone in ... terested in becoriling involved with the club should c;;ontact Gene Kliot, Box 604. Dutch HOllow Pub EVERY WED. EVERY THURS. ., \8 J '0 uo .. o J1QflU'•t Miller Night, 25 cent Drafts Jam night, 'Musicians Needed, 9: 00 - 'FRL Happy Hour 9:30-10:30 p.m. House drinks 60 cents. SAT. Beef & Brew 5:00-8:00. The Pub will be closed unti I 5: 00 p.m. •

OONOORDIENSJS, November 8., 1979 And who is there to check an your deeds, to attenrl to the rest of Society's needs? Sincerely, Floyd and Willi . ,_ ,. tlliS Mr. OffieefOr &14J5..66. ' You narrow minded turd, you ·.«P~~r:E;ditPr~ ··~···~h···~~~+'\•···· ·\'\'\''·············· I would like to reply to last geh:!!~~r ~~:.~~ nowhere 'row'i:~~.E!~!~~~~ the rampus s~:iJf:.~: l~~:·;:m~e~t:!~·-.·~ ... u · ··~,Jf$~.''\\'~t,; .• i!l\'~\' To the Editors: Bells-- week's anonymous. rebuttal to without the Social Scientist. · ref'ently on Homecoming but l think that it:is'at 3:30 the .~ .. ·~,!~, stu.pt(l .. ~~ my plagiarism letter, and to · Weekend, I wa~ pleased to have ·.N~.tt w. Jtt.3 .. il'!iJ.P!l .. tti.n'! .. .Pn tha.ir. D R ' if - d P lf k AM A the ·op··p· ·ortuni'_ty to·· 'p .. J<>v_ · ... ·_.a····.· · · \\ . an yan s unm tga\e o tics eeps your . . . .., . . p &Al!W fQJttlnSJ!eas,'Onon audacity in submitting for protected, selection of college songs on the .. \Y. • .... ,,\ \'''' \ . , ,:,,.,,., ·-···\ . publicatinn an exact duplicate . Lawyers let your' malpractice bells in the Tower ofMemoi'ial . I would,. just lUte to .. .take:.u:us of said letter. Vis*a•vis Mr. go undetect~d. . Chapel, t1 Uis1{ Whlch I enjoyed ,QpportJ.mitY ,to telL~V.§t:Ybody Ryan, (from whose lack of Accountants keep all your as an unde1'graduate arUn1on.I about thELgrouu. It is a.,tf!di9. .. , . , .,._. . . . originality we can naught but hills in order, am told by the alumni office comedy gtoup. tb.9;t will<JHlt on P.S. Pleasq1:Jp my ma~es ... ~M.,,._ ·conclude he has a brain the size From the millions owed you that there may be a few hardy shp,£!~ .. M often .. as. ,possible·;.:. f>.:e.s,. YAtL c.an. ;r.~c~1ve · of a cubic Angstrom unit), ·I down to every la$t quarter. students whfi are: w1llirig · t9 (.h._ow_.~s_]_ha_t fo_:c_.~yjn_._,g~ us·d_o_w .. l)J. , . autug:rapb. by. wntmg. to .... have never seen such in~ undertake the task ot climbipg AnyWay, the gwupdoes have .. ~ .s ...• P.tt.PeL •......... ·~· . . \' ... credible, iniquitous impudence. So keep in line, cause without the various ladders and cat~ few . . . . . .. • m.ainly' in )?;rf>,p $ .. M~~YP.1J~:.a}.~t ·. . Is he trying to be funny, Qr us you're dead. walks to learn to We need re 1-1t 6:3Q;, . . · what? No self-respe~ting And don't let that degree rather· earntpus con!lmtmi~y can ~fford\' ,,, ... ; .•.. ,., ....... •\\*'•''··\····'•'!''•·L.:•·. 11 .. , .•. \'·····\·!;· •. ·t .••.• 'if·~;··~::~::;':':•••••••• · We attrni()n,(lPaftt) So you ·wanna<lJiifEI d<rctot 1 well that's- cool. · · · · ' · · · ··· There~'s· no · dnubt · · abOut· ·it~ · you'r-e ft.t tbe rtght· ~chttot ·· .. : ; · Pbystcs · ;md ·calc., ·· Otg~Ic and Quant., ·· · ·· · · They're hard as hefl.; ·· bUt ·• that's what you want. ·· .r >, -.:..;. 1M FQrc;()pportunitie-;-------ACN11gl IP.O.Box1776 • I I Valley. For_ge, PA 19481 1· I Please send me 1nformatron on eng1nee11ng oppor1umt1es and becomrng j an A1r Force Off1cer I am espec1ally Interested 1n ., Air force Officer Tra1mng School ' • I max; mum age 79•. tollege degree! 1 requ1redl 1 --~ I An force ROTC I 1lage 16.281 . I I . Name . . ___ ~-----Sex( IMI IF I IPiea~e Puntl .. 1 . I Address . . • .Apt # ·· - · -· 1 City State I · - - -I I Zip I I Date of 81r1h ·~~ _ .. 1 I Engrne.enng D1scrplme. _ .. -- - --·-. -· -------, College Attending ___ .. __ I DateofGraduati~~--~egree_. _· . ___ j I eo l un ca trc: be we gi1 (tc WE na m Gr U.; y~ c·e1 I i.n1 ca,J He SOl ha no the: his SUJ an' pr' Ha da1 sid

Page 1.2 Conttnued f.rom page 2 movies that they think would appeal to the entire student body. If you have any suggestions or comments please feel free to contact Matt Coben or anyone on the Film Committee. Thank you, Bob Wolper Plagiarism To the Editors: I would like to reply to last week's anonymous rebuttal to my plagiarism letter, and to Dan Ryan's unmitigated audacity in submitting for publication an exact duplicate of said letter. Vis.a~vis Mr. Ryan, r from whose lack of originality we can naught but conclude he has a brain the .size of a cubic Angstrom unit l, I have never seen such in- credible, iniquitous impudence. Is he trying to be fUnny, or what? No self~respecting campus community can afford to tolerate such behavior. Mere dismissal, however, is too go.od . for this contemptuous cretin- this dissolute degenerate! HE SHOULD DIE!! ! Time and place for organizattonal . meetings of S. T.A.R. f Students for Totally Annihilating Ryam will he posted. Mr. Ryan will shortly become an ex-parrot. Now let us turn to an equally distasteful subject, i.e.. my Anonymous Antagonist (hereafter referred to as AA). Calling my letter \. . . a scan-' dalous treatment of reality ... \ clearly indicates that some alien force has. taken control of AA.s mind and as such. refuting his wr her arguments point .by point is completely un- necessary. If you are reading this, AA I recommend that you either give yourself up to the F.B.I., seek refuge in another country, or at least undergo some form of therapy. - • (Prerequisite to all these, of course, is the dubious assump- tion that yotJ are still, in some small way, capable of acting under your own cognizance .. ) Anyway, some sort of action has to be taken. Such libelous letters must be detered. I demand that a Committee on Cretins like Dan Ryan andAAbe established to draft and im~ pliment rules to prevent such pernicious publications. I hope we can now terminate this protracted and sordid affair. There's no use in beating the proverbial dead horse. The whole thing should be buried and forgotten· (the issue, notJhe horse). It's all over and done .with. Enough said. Case con.- cluded. The subject is closoo. The matter is'ertded. Let's not talk about it any more. I hope I have made myself clear, Sin cer£ly, Adam Frey Union Life .•• To the Editor: Life at Union (Part l) So you wanna be a doctor., ' well that's cool. There's no doubt about it, • you're at the right school. · Physics and Calc., 01·ganic . and Quant. 1 , They're hard as hell, but · that's what you want. One Thirty P.M., a bright sunny day. · Hey you cut throat, you going my way? Off to Sand E, I'm so glad l'm alive. This really sucka though, lab till half past five. CONCORDIENSIS, November 8, 1979 ....•.. , .... _,.~-·\''''\'· .. \·w-·-;;---;~--- .. ., .. ~-·····,····~=-·-.::--,- .. .,.,.,. ·.·'' .-.- ... _, tt < e .< ...... •••• • ........ • ,·,,,,.:,::/i{.':·.';, .... , ... · .,, •... ·. ·:, ..•.... * :- :·: . - :' - ~ : -~ ,:·: _- . . . ,;':.;- .. But that's what you want, you wanna be rich. You wanna really impress that Long Island bitch. You don't give a shit about Humanity's ills, · Just as long as they pay on time aU their bills. And who is there to check all your deeds, to attend to the rest of Society's needs? You narrow minded turd, you get us really pissed! Remember vou'd ~nowhere without the Social Scientist. Polftics keeps your A.M.A. protected, Lawyers let your malpractice go undetected. Accountants keep all your bills in order. From the millions owed you down to every last quarter. So keep in line. cause without us you're dead. And don't let that degree go right to your head. Cause a Philosopher will take you and make you feel real small, And when you need the Psychologist, he won't answer your call!!-! Bells To The Editor: Sincerely, Floyd and Willi While visiting the campus ref'£'ntly on Homecoming Weekend. I was pleased to have the opportunity to play a selertion of college songs on the bells in the Tawer of 'Memorial Chape 1. a task which I enjoyed as an undergraduate at Union. I am told by the alumni office .that there may be a few hardy -;tudents who are willing to undertake the task of climbing the \'arious ladders and rat- \\'alks to learn to play this rather unique musical in- strument, which is operated by a seri.es of wooden levers in the Chapel Tower. Any student who wishes instruction in learning this skill is invited to contact Mr. Demgen in the Alumni Offke for further infotmation at 61..()5-66. ' Peter K. Smith '70 Nott Witts Dear Editor, How are you? I am fine. This Saturday, I am not Sijre when, but I think that it is at 8:30 the Nott Witts are putting on their premier show for this season on WRUC. I would just like to take this opportunity to tell everybody about the group. It is a radio romedy group that will put on shows as often as possible !how's that for tying us down). Anyway, the group does have a few problems, mainly in enrollment. We need more people. Acton; are needed, if you can't act, writers are needed, if you can't wl'ite, typists are neerled, if you <'an't type, we need ideas, if you-don't have ideas, eome anyway, the more the merrier (but if you ask me, if you can't do any of the above you are in pretty poor shapel Actually I don't care if you ask me or not. it's my let~ ter t Mind your own business), Where was I? Oh yeah! Thank you. So I would just like to· conclude by saying PLEASE JOIN! (sorry, ll(lst control of myself). But if you don't joi11 because of some stupid reason like you.are already in 27 clubs or that you are failing an of your f'lasses a,t least listen. Sin<'erely, (well almost sin~ c·erely} Mitchell Chess P.S. Please 'd() my mazes also. P.P.S. You f'an receive my autograph by writing to the paper. P.P.P.S. Meetings are Tuesday at 6:30. ·· Continued on page 14 fA; Forc;{]pport~e~------ACN11gl I P 0 Box 1776 I I Valley Forge. PA 19481 1 I Pled>e ,end me rllfU'\ d!IO'i or ellljlloef:ldier upportur·rlrti•· ,JIIIl tJHCOnlrllg I an Arr Force Offrcer I .,n, P.\pen;;lly rnterer,IPd rn I Arr Forre OflrrPr Tr;;rnrnq )rhool lm;wmum ~'I\ /CJ rollo>rrr d~qree I 1 requrredl ' 1 Au force ROIL li!QP. lh J8r I ~J;]mP s~x: 1 fv1 If I I . ~U1eP.,rn I I AdrJre1~ Apt n I 1 Crly St rte I l7rp __ Plmne .. ~-----·· ---~I Date ol Brrth I I fngrneerrng Orscrplrnel I College Anendrng, I Dale of Graduation Degree , . I L _____________ _j I th er Uf c·a tr; be WI gi ( tr WI na Gl G! u. ye c·e in ca Ht so ha no th; hi! su an pr H.: da sic

- · OONOOBDIENSIS, November 8, 19\19 Pag~ 13 Dr. B·ourne At Union. • • Continued from page 1 . the top· 20 percent \ economically.\ Bourne said that it is unrealistic to thhk that the U.S. C'an separate from the ex- traordinary jnterdependence between the nations of the world. He st.,ated that, \we don't give a great amount of money (to underdeveloped nations): we rank 12th out of 1'7 developed nations in support per percent GNP (Sweden has given $3, Great Britain 27 cents, and the U.S. 12 cents to UNICEF per Y,ear per capita since its in- C'eption).\ Dr. Bourne is also very 9 much involved in the re-election campaign of President Carter. He indicated that \barring something unexpected, Reagan has the Republican nomination.\ He mentioned that George Bush (because of his organization of grass roots support for the Iowa caucuses) and Phi.l Crane (because of his preparations for the New Hampshire primary) are the dark horses: On the Democratic side, \there is no question that Kennedy 1s going io run,\ said Bourne. Dr. Bourne said, however, that the people in the White House are optimistk. Bourne regards President Carter as an \unbelievably tenacious person,\ and he feels that there is. a misconception among the Kennedy people that Carter may drop out.'' \Dealing with a hard-fought campaign, Kennedy may not do as well as the polls indicate,\ said Bourne. He said that althOugh the organization of the primaries seem to be stacked in Kennedy's favor (the first three being Iowa, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts), \winning ;:~Tone in those early primaries may not guarantee Kennedy the nomination.\ Dr. Bourne cited the 1972 New Hampshire primary in which Musk-i.e received 47 percent and McGovern had 25 percent of the vote. The Muskie people said prior to the voting that if their <'andidate did not get better than 57 percent of the vote they would consider the primary a loss. The media reported the tally as a loss for Muskie, and Bourne said, \if you ask most people • today who won the · pri~ary they would tell you that M<·Governwon it, when, in fact, he only received· 25 percent of the vote.\ As a result, Senator · Muski e lost his earlv · momentum. · Dr. Bourne regards the media's <·onstrua.J of that early Massa ··husetts race as the key to the momentum of the · primaries, ashe says, \it is how · the press interprets it rather than who wins it.\ · Bourne believes that Carter has a better grasp of the con- r·erns and directions of the c·ountry. He thinks that \this is likely to win out in his favor, overshadowing the superficial appeal of Kennedy.\ Dr. Bourne related that \Carter's subtle leadership is moving the country in a completely dif- ferent direction'·' than it has been going the last twenty years, and he perceives this as a necessary course of action. He dted former President Ford's failure to convince the Amerkan people that there was Continued on page 14 MO.unteba.nks· Issue Ends. • • Continued from page 1 available to student groups as freely as practicable\ at no cost to the student activities. The Forwn also voted an amendment to the \Statement ·Of Understanding Between the Student Forum and the Arts Department\ which stipulates that Union College students be granted a 50 percent discount .(from the base price) on aU tickets to Arts Department productions for a minimum of three years. In other business, the Forum heard a presentation from John Hauley, a representative from the Independent Student Coalition fiSC). Following the presentation the Forum voted to reimburse any Union student for travelling expenses should he-she decide to attend the ISC legislative conference at RPI on Saturday, Nov. 10. The ISC is a New York State lobbying group which promotes various forms of tuition aid to students at- tending private colleges in New York State. Interested students should contact Assistant'· Dean · of Students Mike Andolina as soon as possible. The third item discussed by the Forum involved a problem that existed between two student activitie& and the college's insurance' policy. The first problem, which has also been discussed and acted upon at the previous meeting, con- cerned a car which was donated to the Big Brothers~Big Sisters Club last year by a Union alumnus. Unfortunately, the Forum had to direct the leaders of the dub not to use the car since the college's \umbrella'' student activities, Matt Coben, Chairman of the Film Com- mittee, described the problems with the present proje(·tion facilities in SS016. Matt proposed the purchase of a new $8,000 projection system, which would also alleviate the audio problems which Film Com• mittee patrons consistently complain about. Poor at- tendance at some films was attributed to the acoustical problem. Also discussed was the bel1ef that a better projection sys~em would errab}$ the committee to acquire higher-priced feature films. since a greater number of students would be expected te attend movies which were more audible. Several alternatives to the projector purchase such as rentals w~ proposed as stoP. gap measur~ since Mike Brand, Chairman of the Tax COD\· mittee, reported that therl would not be enough money in this year's proposed Student Activities Budget to cover· such a large expenditure. Also discussed was the possibility of splitting the cost of a new projection system with next year's Dean of Students' Student Activities Capital Account. Jean Shirts · .insurance policy does not cover 12ersons under 25 years of age. Currently, the Forum reim- burses the college for all st).ldent. activities insurance costs at the end of each year. The Chairman of the Film Committee will retum next week with a written report concerning the costs of alter- native projection facilities for the remainder of this year and next. Pr;esently, the Film Committee pays the college $2,600 per year for th,e use of the projection facilities in Social Sriences 016. Finally, the Forum heard two reports from the Committee on Committees ( CoC). The first report concern~d the legitimacy and recognition of student activities that are presently operating under no written or recognized constitution. The CoC decided to set a deadline for the first Friday of Winter term, beyond which time the funds of any student activity operating without any written constitution will be frozen, Wltil an acceptable constitution is submitted to the CoC. Notices will be sent out immediately and several follow-up phone calls will be made t:o the leaders of each of the eleven ,groups concerned. The CoC will be meeting regularly throughout Winter t~rm to deal with problems relating to ALL student activities constitutions. . ' . COORDINATING FASHION Denim Jeans . Dress Slacks MIX OR MATCH WITH: . Soort Shirts 'Dress Shirts ' ROTTERDAM, Rotterdam Mall (next to 1empo Fashion), STORE HOURS:l0-9 Mon-Sat., 12-5 Sun.; ALBANY, Wolf Road Shoppers Park, Wolf Rd.; STORE HOURS:l0-9.:30Mon- Sat., 12-5 Sun., COLONIE, Century II Mall, Central Plaza, 9()0 Central Ave., STORE HOURS: 10-9 Man-Sat., 12-5 Sun. Similarly, the Forum was recently informed that the c0llege's insur&nce policy does not, and will not, cover ac- cidents resulting from skydiving or. hanggliding. Although the members of the Skydiving Club must sign a waiver releasing the college from any liability before they skydive, it was also recently learned that such waivers are not always legally binding. Presented with these legal implications by the College Business Office, the Forum regretfully froze funding of the Skydiving Club and temporarily revokes its constitution. In another discussion about Hill Appointed. • • Continued from page 1 filled\ and a \patrolman's position in Security and Safety\ which was \vacated within the last three or four months. yrhen asked if Hill's ap· pomtment might threaten the jobs of Director of Security and Safety Clifford Wood or Director of Physical Plant Richard Mills, Hauser responded that there are \no plans at this time for change.\ He did, however, say that some administrative changes have taken place, as-evidenced by his remark that \technically July 1 was the changeover date of Security and Safety from the D~an of Student.'~ responsibility center to the fmancial area, Since July 1, Cliff Wood has reported to this office.'' · EDITOR'S NOTE: In all fairness to Mr. Hauser, it must here be said that when he granted Concordiensis the in- terview concerning the ap- pointment of Mr. Hill, be ex- pressly requested that we bold the information for an ad- ditional week, pending notification of the faculty and staff. As this is already old news, and in a week's time is sure to become even older news, we decided to rel~ase it this week. There is also a principle involved here-the principle of . the students of Uniou College being members of the campus community equal with the campus' faculty and staff. It is surely the right of students who care enough about the news to actively seek it out to know of · that news before a faculty and staff which passively•aand, perhaps, disinterestedly--a· waits notification.

he he if 10' of o. - CONCORDIENSIS, November 8, 19\19 Page 13 Dr. Bourne At Union. • • Continued from page 1 the top 20 percent economically.\ Bourne said that it is unrealistic to thhk that the U.S. C'an separate from the ex- traordinary jnterdependenre between the nations of the world. He stated that, \we don't give a great amount of money ito underdeveloped nations): we rank 12th out of 17 deve!@ped nations in sHpport per percent GNP iSweden has given $3, Great Britain 27 cents, and the U.S. 12 cents to UNICEF per year per capita since its in- C'eptioFJ J • '' Dr. Bourne is also very·'much involved in the re-electi0n campaign of President Carter. He indicated that \barring something unexpected, Reagan has the Repubhcan nomination.\ He menti0ned that George Bush r because 0f his organization of grass roots support for the Iowa caucuses) and Phil Crane (because of his preparations for the New Hampshire primary J are the dark horses~ On the Democratic side, \there is no question that Kennedy IS going to run,\ said Bourne. Dr. B0urne said, however, that the people in the White House are optimistiC'. Bourne regards President Carter as an \unbelievably tenacious person,'' and he feels that there is a misconception among the Kennedy people that Carter may drop 0ut.\ \Dealing with a hard-fought campaign, Kennedy may not do as well as the poHs indicate,\ said Bourne. He said that although the organization of the primaries seem to be stacked in Kennedy's favor I the first three being Iowa, New Hampshire, and Massaeh usetts), ''winning alone in those early primaries may not guarantee Kennedy the nomination. 11 Dr. BourHe cited the 1972 New Hampshire primary in which Muskie received 47 percent and McGovern had 25 percent of the vote. The Muskie people said prior to the voting that if their l'andidate did not get better than 57 percent of the vote they would consider the primary a loss. The media reported the tally as a loss for Muskie, and COORDINATING FASHION Bourne said, \if you ask most people . today who won the pri:nary they w0uld tell you that McGovern won it, when, in fact. he only received 25 percent of the vote.\ As a result, Senator Muskie lost his early momentum . Dr. Bourne regards the media's f'onstrual of that early Massa ·husetts race a.s the key to the momentum of the primaries, as he .says, \it is how the press interprets it rather than who wins it\ Bourne believes that Carter has a better grasp of the con- (·erns and directions of the country. He thinks that \this is likely to win out in his favor, overshadowing the superficial appeal of Kennedy.'' Dr. Bourne related that \Carter's subtle leadership is moving the country in a completely dif- ferent direction II than it has been going the last twenty years, and he perceives this as a necessary course of action. He cited former President Ford's failure to convince the American people that there was Continued on page 14 Denim Jeans $1 2 Dress Slacks $8 MIX OR MATCH WITH: ROTTERDAM, Rotterdam Mall (next to Tempo Fashion), STORE HOURS:l0-9 Mon-Sat., 12·5 Sun., ALBANY, Wolf Road Shoppers Park, Wolf Rd., STORE HOURS:l0-9:30 Mon- Sat., 12-SSun., COLONIE, Century II Mall, Central Plaza, 900 Central Ave., STORE HOURS: 10·9 Mon-Sat., 12·5 Sun. Also in KINGSTON, BENNINGTON, VT. Mountebanks Issue Ends. • • Continued from page 1 available to student groups as freely as practicable\ at HO cost to the student activities. The Forum also voted an amendment to the \Statement of Understandir~g Between the Student Forum and the Arts Department\ which stipulates that Union College students be granted a 50 percent discount I from the base price) on all tickets to Arts Department productions f0r a minimum of three years. In other business, the Forum heard a presentation from John Hauley, a representative from the Independent Student Coalition IISC). Following the presentation the Forum voted to reimburse any Union student for travelling expenses should he-she decide to attend the rsc legislative conference at RPI on Saturday, Nov. 10. The ISC is a \'ew York State lobbying group which promotes various forms of tuition aid t0 students at- tending private colleges in New York State. Interested students should contact Assistant Dean of Students Mike Andolina as soon as possible. The third item discussed by the Forum imolveu a problem that existed between two student activitie~ and the ('Ollege 's insurance policy. The first problem, which has also been discussed and acted upon at the previous meeting, con- (·erned a car which \1 as donated to the Big Brothers-Big Sisters Club last vear bY a Union alum nus. lin fort uiwtely, the Fllrum had to direct the leader~ of thl' dub not to lL'>e the car !'Ini'P the I'Ollege's \wnbrella\ insurance policy does not cover persons under 25 years of age. CurrentlY, the Forwn reim- burses 'the college for all student activities insurance costs at the end of each year. Similarly, the Forum was recently informed that the college's insura.nce policy does not, and will not, cover ac- cidents resulting from skydiving or hanggliding. Although the members of the Skydiving Club must sign a waiver releasing the college from any liability before they skydive, it was also recently learned that such waivers are not always legally binding. Presented with these legal implications by the College Business Office, the Forum regretfully froze funding of the Skydiving Club and temporarily revokes its constitution. In another discussion about st udeht activities, Matt Cob en, C'hairman of the Film Com- mittee, described the problems with the present projection facilities in SS016. Matt proposed the purchase of a new $8,000 projection system, which would also alleviate the audio problems which Film Com- mittee patrons consistently complain about. Poor at- tendance at some films was attributed to the acoustical problem. Also discussed was the belief that a better projection system would enabre the committee to acquire higher-priced feature films. since a greater number of students would be expected to attend movies which were more audible. Several alternatives to the orojector purchase such as rentals were proposed as stoP- gap measure;; since Mike Brand., Chairman of the Tax Com- mittee, reported that there would not be enough money in this year's proposed Student Activities Budget to cover such a large expenditure. Also discussed was the possibility of splitting the cost of a new projection system with next year's Dean of Students' Student Activities Capital Account. The Chairman of the Film Committee will return next week with a v>titten report 1·om·erning the costs of alter- native projection facilities for the remainder of this year and next. Presentlv, the Film Committee pays the l'Ollege $:2.600 per year for the use of the projection facilities in Social Sciences 016. Finally, the Forum heard two reports from the Committee on Committees ( CoC l. The first report concerned the legitimacy and recognition of student activities that are presently operating under no written or recognized constitution. The CoC decided to set a deadline for the first Friday of Winter term, beyond which time the funds of any student activity operating without any written constitution will be frozen, until an acceptable constitution is submitted to the CoC. Notices will be sent out immediately and several follow-up phone ralls will be made to the leaders of each of the eleven groups concerned. The CoC will be meeting regularly throughout Winter term to deal with problems relating to ALL student activities constitutions. Hill Appointed. • • Continued from page 1 filled\ and a \patrolman's position in Security and Safety\ which was ,vacated within the last three or four months. When asked if Hill's ap- pointment might threaten the jobs of Director of Security and Safety Clifford Wood or Director of Physical Plant Richard Mills, Hauser responded that there are \no plans at this time for change.'' He did, however, say that some administrative changes have taken place, as evidenced by his remark that \technically July 1 was the changeover date of Security and Safety from the Dean of Student's responsibility center to the financial area. Since July 1, Cliff Wood has reported to this office.\ EDITOR'S NOTE: In all fairness to Mr. Hauser, it must here be said that when he granted Concordiensis the in- terview concerning the ap- pointment of Mr. Hill, he ex· pressly requested that we hold the information for an ad- ditional week, pending notification of the faculty and staff. As this is alreadv old news, and in a week's tiine is sure to become even older news, we decided to release it this week. There is also a principle involved here-the principle of the students of Union College being members of the campus community equal with the campus' faculty and staff. It is surely the right of students who care enough about the news to actively seek it out to know of that news before a faculty and staff which passively--and, perhaps, disinterestedly--a- waits notification.

• Page 14 · CONOORDIENSIS~ November 8~ 1919 BULLETIN BOARD Thursday, November 8 at 3:30 Jl.m. in Strauss Lounge, Ceteris Paribus and the Economics Department present Daniel Shaughnessy, Executive Director of the Presidential Commission on World Hunger. Mr. Shaughnessy will be speaking on the United States' · responsibility . towards world hunger. Refreshments will be served. All are· invited. Tutors A vaHable--The Academic Opportunity Program (A.O.P.) provides a tutorial service for all students, freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors; the present rate is $3.00 per hour. For more in- formation and-or an available list of competent tutors for any subject area, please see: Maxine Meadows-Shuford, AOP Office, Old Gym Hall. Typing in my own home. Muriel Monaco, · 2097 Foster Ave. 374-7031. Reas-onable Rates. Female Babysitter-my home (Mt. Pleasant) needed soon. Wed thru Fri. starting 11 : 00 or rall between 5-9 p.m., 377-0071. Spring Semester Interii'ships Offered: Congresswoman Holtzman invites several students to work full-time in her Brooklyn and Washington of- fices next semester. The · Brooklyn program emphasizes case work and community relations, with some research. The Washington program emphasizes .. ~ssue-oriented work, including legislative research and correspondence. In:~rns in both ~!fi~es are also e~ected to help with 'the routine chores necessary for the functioning of Congressional offices.· Among the qualities sought in intern applicants are the ability to write well, initiative, a sense of responsibility, the ability to work well under pressure, and a willingness to undertake u n g I amorous c.h ores. Undergraduates whQ have completed between two and three years of college are given preference. Most semester interns join us on the basis of a work-study or independent study program through which they arrange to receive academic credit. There are no funds available for a stipend or for defraying students' expenses. Interns make their own. living arrangements. LOST: Suede leather coat, comes down to waist. '$10 reward, no questions asked. Call Karl-382-9029 .. FOR SALE FOR SALE: Brand new hockey shinguards. Cooper Pro DG20 long. Price negotiable. Call Bill at 370-6575. FOR SALE: Just in time for winter! Hyde figure skates, women's size 7, all leather, excellent shape, asking $50. Call 6814. PLACEMENT .. 1. Historic Deerfield, Inc., offers Summer Fellowships in Early American Historv and Decorative Arts. · 2. Ame,rican Educational Services offers scholarships to undergraduates. 3. National Wildlife Federation offers 1980 Con- . servation Internships. 4. California Senate offers Fellowships. For application forms and further information see Yungwha Min at PCR. PERSONALS Patti-you shou 1 d be paying attention in acc.~tunting -class instead of reading this! Neil Doc-IS your name really M~ry-Beth? signed·-a good fnend of the suspender provider. But SERIOUSLY, it's UN- BELIEVABLE - J.C.-Why do you insist on being so anti-social? Love, B. Bob P.-This is your first personal .._ T.D.C.-Thanks for being such good sports.-.Cohorts in crime Bob P.-Here's your second personal ---------------- ATTENTION STUDENT LIFE OFFICE-The situation in 311 Fox has gotten totally out of control. It looks like the main street of Cohoes! Stwnpah-Is it tough being a short FRESHMEN? (From L.I. no.less)-Thumpah Jay, You're so funny when yoll play ping pong! . Margaret. Android--Isn't your room- mate ·.terrific, sensational, wonderful, fabulous,. stupen- dous, amazing, astounding, world? Wix-I had :a personal for you last week but I forgot. To General,· Coorey Lick, Vonk, the Freakin' Rican, and ... CammeU: R'OOOAAAD TRIIIIIP! ! ! ! '! Meet at the Pinto Wed. nite ... Blondie · R~chel-look out, you never knQw who might be behind you- sprinkler Ransom: 4 million dollars by Sunday 12 midnight or else the little birdies will never see their shelf again,-WHA The situation in Fox 310 has gotten completely \OUT OF CONTROL'' It's \UN- BELIEVABLE\; ''SERIOU- SLY\. I mean like I've never seen· SO- i:nany alligators and polo men in my life. Come on by and see for yem·self (especially if your names are sue and charis l how preppie one can oocome! Denise: Are you sure you want to send out your reswnes on green paper? Your Future Employer Magnet--THE HUMPAH (almost · anything)-Cap.-THE THUMPAH-Beck-THE PUM- PAH-Steinie-THE STUMPAH- -Whale--THE CHUNKAH-- Berquey--THE SWIMMAH-- J.B.-THE GUMPAH-Berger- THE GOYAH-•Bird--THE LOV AH--Charis--THE PHU- QAH-Sleez-THE DUMPAH- Garment District--THE MATZAH-Bates-THE MAS- TAH-Wench-THE GUSHAH- Markieo--THE WHALAH-Dad- THE CHUMPAH--Sue--THE _ SLEEPAH-yeah right!! !-8i- ;~ letz--'iHE ·. PUSHAH·~B. W.~­ THE RAG BAGAH--Buffalo r ling us J--THE SNATCHAH- Poindexter-THE CUMMPAH- Por Q. Pyne-:THE SHOWAH- Des-THE FLUNKAH-Mom- THE NAN AH--Theo--THE DOCTAH Dr. Bourne . .. Continued 'from nage 13 . \' an energy crisis. During the last administration only 5 percent of--- the population believed that a f'risis existed. Carter · Spent ml:lf'h of the first two years of his administration raising this percentage to 85 percent, where it now stands. · To apply for: an internship, send a letter, .a resume !which should include the name, ad- dress and telephone number of at least one referenf'e) and a short writing sample to Rodney N. Smith, Administrative Assistant, 2238 Rayburn.House Office. Building, Washington, D.C. 20515. Be sure to include telephone numbers where you can be reached at home and at college. Specify whether you prefer Brooklyn or Washington office, and. when you would expect to begin and end your internship (the norm is fifteen weeks). - extraordinary, unsurpassed, Dr. Bourne expressed the desire to remind people that the Presidency is not that powerful · · a pasition. Bourne spoke of a conversation that the president had with activist Tom Hayden. Hayden questioned Carter vigorously on his stand ·con- f'erning multinational cor· .. porations, asking the president if he could,n't make adjustments here· andJhere.\ The prtrsident replied, \I'm only t_he president, there is only so much Applications for Spring semester internships should be in our hands by November 15th. We may .call on applicants for interviews, in person if possible, by telephone i.f necessary. For more information, telephone Anne Stone at 202-225- 6616. LOST & FOUND FOUND: At. D. Phi last Friday nite, one ski vest. Call Barry at 310-6575. noble, distinguished, ex- ceedingly· great, unequaled, superlative, beyond compare, and absolutely out of this I can do.\ ·November . . 13 .• 14 & 26 . Garnet: Yearbook 1980 on··sale . Underclassmen: $8 -Seniors: $5 See Mrs. Marra or a member of the yearbook staff in Carnegie Humor? ••• Continued from page 11 what the committee is doing with the $33 per student a year it receives; Mr. Aft recently noted that \no matter what my peers in the student body think, in the end we'll always give it to them.'' · $18,472.17 has been approved by the Tax Committee to. charter the first of Union's new clubs: The Pre-Freshman Record Society. This club, open to all high-school juniors at Unioh, will meet once a year to discuss how to make kin,_ dergarten pupils interested in what Union has to offer them. Realizing that it is best to. start young, the chairman of the P.F.R.S. has ordered a parD:• phlet to be drawn u,p, entitled \Why you as a i\i~~'::'rearten student should think of Union b_efore· considering Harvard.;, Students interestec;l in joining this highly worthwhile club should contact Johnnie Jacobs, care of Miss Tighe, at P.S. 6 in Manhattan. Union's other new orga:nization is the \I hate Shakespeare and he can kiss my· Coriolj:lnus Club.\ Membership is open to aU, but~there is a . twenty percent discount on club fees for aW students who can prove that they have yet to read . any play by the Bard, or 'by anyone else. There seems to be a crush for membership in this club at fhe present time; its first meeting wiU be on November 4th in Steinmetz Hall. · ,Ms. Paulette Nichols, Asst. Director for OPERATION CROSSROADS .. AFRICA . will be on campvs to re_spond to questions Sunday, Novem~er 18 . .. at 3:00 p.m. in Strauss _L~unge ·- Dutch _H·ollow Pizza & Sub Shop 2 5 e o.f.f' ever:r lar~e or ~icilian pizza. purchased Thursday, 1118179 -Thurs. - 1-1115179 ~f'. we deliver or .rou choose to relax', te~ardless in the. pJ.~,b. - So c·ome arid help us celebrate our first month anniversary. ,, Prt I( In 1 upset his to Skati Divis Achil in th sched the 1! La~ ~nior game Divis chme II pl; coach Satur newl~ eager men: prove Raide As first ning Merlo to bE Colga none 1 stron! back sistinJ prese: mustE Colg(l First McSw due t< ThE) ladde1 and i team~ sluggi goalie stitutt signs, ll·ofl one ~ Murr~ sllppe them game the 6: Jus1 freshr of •U power by Ji score At tl perioc Cc lnt Carr· 859

Page 14 OONOORDIENSIS, November 8, 1979 classifiet>s BUllETIN BOARD Thursday, November 8 at 3:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, Ceteris Paribus and the EcomJmics Department present Daniel Shaughnessy, Executive Director of the Presidential Commission on World Hunger. Mr. Shaughnessy will be speaking on the United States' responsibility towards world hunger. Refreshments will be served. All are invited. Tutors Available--The Arademic Opportunity Program IA.O.P.) provides a tutorial service for all students, freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors; the present rate is $3.00 per hour. For more in- formation and-or an available list of competent tutors for any subject area, please see: Maxine Meadows-Shuford, AOP Office, Old Gym Hall. Typing in my own home. Muriel Monaco, 2097 Fostt!r Ave. 374-7031. Reasonable Rates. Female Babysitter-my home r Mt. Pleasant l needed soon. Wed thru Fri. starting 11:00 or rail between 5-9 p.m., 377-0071. Spring Semester Interiiships Offered: Congresswoman Holtzman invites several students to work full-time in her Brooklyn and Washington of- fices next semester. The Brooklyn program emphasizes rase work and community relations, with some research. The Washington program emphasizes .. issue-oriented work, including legislative research and correspondence. Interns in both offices are also expected to help with the routine chores necessary for the functioning of Congressional offices. Among the qualities sought in intern applicants are the ability to write well, initiative, a sense of responsibility, the ability to work well under pressure, and a willingness to undertake unglamorous chores. Undergraduates who have C'Ompleted between two and three years of college are given preference. Most semester interns join us on the basis of a work-study or mdependent study program through which they arrange to re(·eive academic credit. There are no funds available for a stipend or for defraying students' expenses. Interns make their own living arrangements. To apply for an internship, send a letter, a resume 1 which should include the name, ad- dress and telephone nwnber of at least one refererwe) and a short writing sample to Rodney N. Smith, Administrative Assistant, 2238 Rayburn .House Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20515. Be sure to include telephone numbers where you can be reached at home and at college. Specify whether you prefer Brooklyn or Washington office, and when you would expect to begin and end your internship (the norm is fifteen weeks). Applications for Spring semester internships should be in our hands by November 15th. We may call on applicants for interviews, in person if possible, by telephone if necessary. For more information, telephone Anne Stone at 202-225- 6616. LOST & FOUND FOUND: At. D. Phi last Friday nite, one ski vest. Call Barry at 370-6575. LOST: Suede leal.her coat, comes dewn to waist. $10 reward, no questions asked. Call Karl-382-9029. FOR SALE FOR SALE: Brand new hockey shinguards. Cooper Pro DG20 long. Price negotiable. Call Bil'l at 370-6575. FOR SALE: Just in time for winter! Hyde figure skates, women's size 7, all leather, excellent shape, asking $50. Call 6814. PLACEMENT 1. Historic Deerfield, Inc., offers Summer Fellowships in Earlv American Riston and Decorative Arts. · 2. American Educational Services offers scholarships to undergraduates. 3. National Wildlife Federation offers 1980 Con- servation Internships. 4. California Senate offers Fellowships. For application forms and further information see Yungwha Min at PCR. PERSONAlS Patti-you shou'd be paying attention in ace~ ,unting class instead of reading this! Neil Doc-IS your name really Mary-Beth? signed-·a good friend of the suspender provider. But SERIOUSLY, it's UN- BELIEVABLE J.C.-Why do you insist on being so anti-social? I..Dve, B. Bob P.-This is vour first personal · T.D.C .-Thanks for being such good sports-Cohorts in crime Bob F.-Here's your second personal ATTE:-.;TIO~ STUDE:\\T LIFE OFFICE- The situation in 311 Fox has gotten totally out of control. It looks like the main street of Cohoes! Stumpah-Is it tough being a short FRESHMEN? rFrom L.I. no less )-Thumpah Jay, You're so funny when yo'tl play ping pong: Margaret Android--Isn't your room- mate terrific, sensational, wonderful, fabulous,. stupen- dous, amazing, astounding, extraordinary, unsurpassed, noble, distinguished, ex- ceedingly· great, unequaled, superlative, beyond compare, and absolutely out of this world? Wix-I had a personal for you last week but I forgot. To General, Coorey Lick, Vonk, the Freaktn' Rican, and Cammell: ROOOAAAD TRIIIIIP! ! ! ! ! Meet at the PiRto Wed. nite ... Blondie Rachel-look out, you never know who might be behind you~ sprinkler Ransom: 4 miJ:lion dollars by Sunday 12 midnight or else the little birdies will never see their shelf again-WHA The situation in Fox 310 has gotten completely \OUT OF CONTROL\ It's \UN- BELlEY ABLE\: \SERIOU- SLY\. I mean like I've never seen so many alligators and polo men in my life. Come on by and see for yourself ( especial'ly if your names are sue and charis l how preppie Olile can become! Denise: Are you sure you want to send out your resumes on green paper? Your Future Employer Magnet--THE HUMPAH r almost anythingl-Cap-THE THUMPAH-Beck-THE PUM- PAH-Steinie-THE STUMPAH- -Whale--THE CHUNKAH-- Berquey--THE SWIMMAH-- J.B.-THE GUMPAH-Berger- THE GOY AH--Bird--THE LOVAH--Charis--THE PHU- QAH-Sleez-THE DUMPAH- Garment District--THE :'vlATZAH-Bates-THE MAS- TAH-Weneh-THE GUSHAH- Markieo--THE WHALAH-Dad- THE CHUMPAH--Sue--THE SLEEPAH-yeah right!! !-Si- . letz--THE PUSHAH--B. W .-- THE RAG BAGAH--Buffalo 1Jingus l- THE SN ATCHAH- Poindexter-THE CUMMPAH- Por Q. Pyne- THE SHOW AH- Des- THE FLUNKAH-Mom- THE :\\A:NAH--Theo--THE DOCTAH Vr. Bourne . .. Continued from ~age 13 an energy crisis. During the last e1dministration only 5 perc·ent of the population believed that a 'risis existed. Carter spent rnuf'h of the first two years of his administration raising this perl'entagl' to 85 percent, where 1t now stands. Dr. Bourne expressed the desire to remind people that the Presidency is not that powerful a position. Bourne spoke of a (·onversation that the president had with af'tivist Tom Hayden. Hayden questioned Carter \'igorously on his stand con- c·erning multinational cor- porations, asking the president if he r·ouldn't make adjustments here and there.\ The president replied, \I'm only the president, there is only so much I can do.\ November 13. 14 & 26 Garnet: Yearbook 19·80 on sale Underclassmen: $8 Seniors: $5 See Mrs. Ma.rra or a member of the yearbook staff in Carnegie Humor? ••• Continued from page 11 what the committee is doing with the $33 per student a year it receives; Mr. Aft reeently fl()ted that \no matter what my peers in the student body think, in the end we'll always give it to · them.\ · $18,472.17 has been approved by the Tax Committee to charter the first of Union•s new clt:1bs: The Pre-Freshman Reeord Society. This club, epen to all high-school juniors at Unioh, will meet oRce a year to discuss how to make k:iln- dergarten pupils interested in what Union has to offer tfuem. Realizing that it is best to start young, the chairman of the P.F.R.S. has ordered a pam- phlet to be drawn up, entitled \Why you as a i\i;:Q<:>rearten student should thu1k ot Unien before considering Harvard.\ Students interested in joining this highly worthwhile club should contact Johnnie Jacobs, care of Miss Tighe, at P.S. 6 in Manhattan. Union's other new organization is tae \I !late Shakespeare and he can kiss my Coriolanus Club.\ Membership is open to all, but there is a twenty percent discount on club fees for an· students who can prove that they have yet to read any play by the Bard, or by anyone else. There seems te be a crush for membership in this club at the present time; its first meeting will be on November 4th in Steinmetz Hall. Ms. Paulette Nichols, Asst. Director for OPERATION CROSSROADS. AFRICA wi II be on cam pus to respond to questions Sunday, November 18 at 3:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge Dutch Hollow Pizza & Sub Shop 2 5 e (~ll p Vf',._'Y larg(J or Sil·ilian flizza purchased Thursda_y, 1 118/79 -Thurs. 11115179 ~l WtJ tleliver or _you l·hoose to relax', regardless in the pub. So come and help us celebrate our first month anniversary. '·' I In 1!1pse1 11i stc Skat Divi~ AchiJ in tt schec the 1 La. Unio gam« DiviE chm:~ II f:Jl coacl Satm f;Jewl eageJ men provE Raid' As first ning Merle to b Colgc= none stron back sistin prese must, Colgc= First McSv duet Tht ladde and team slugg goalie stitut signs 11 ofl one Murr slippE then game the 6 Jus fresru of L powe1 by J score At t pl'rio~ Cc ln1 Carr 859

OONOORDIENSIS, November· 8, 1~\19 Pre-.Season Opener~ Icemen Sl~sh Colg8te by RICH DECKER and MATT-KAYNE In perhaps t~e most stunning upset victory in this team's history the Urlion College Skating Dutchmen • downed Division I Colgate, 6-3, here at Achilles Rink on Saturday night in the first of two regularly scheduled pre-season games of the 1979-80 season. Last year· CGlgate defeated Vnion twice and finished two games over the 500 mark ·in Division· I .play ·while the Dut- chmen finished 5-21 in Division II play for their then rookie coach, Charlie Morrison. On Saturday -night, however, a newly ·fortified, young cmd eager team sporting 15 fresh- men and only 9tupperclassmen proved too strong for the Red Raiders. As the game opened, in the first period, ,last· year's retur- ning .sophomore .goalie, Mike Merlo, took the ice, and proved to be an impenetrable foe. Colgate fired 20 shots on net . ' none getting by Merlo. Despite strong checking -'- both fore and back - the Union offense con- sisting of five lines in this preseason . event could only muster 9 shots on second string ColgC:tte Goalie, Drew Schaefer. First string goalie, Terry McSweeney was unable to play due to a hand injury. · ThE) first period was whistle- ladden with numerous -offside and icing infractions -as both teams appeared to be a bit sluggish. In the--second, senior goalie Davie Josephson sub- stituted for Metlo and showed signs of his old self, warding off 11-of 12 Colgate shots on net -the one goal a squibbler off. of Murray DeCock's. stick which, slipped past Josephson and into the nets. This first goal of the game put Colgate ahead 1.{) at the 6:18 mark. Just moments later, however, freshman center Brian Turnbull of 'Union connected on a powerplay goal at 8:42 assisted by Jim Anderson, tying tbe score at 1-l. Colgate substituted . third- 4 stringer Guy Lemonde for Schaefer. Lemonde was quickly greened by Union's second and third goals ~ both off of the stick of freshman Brad Nicholson with help from Bill Whitehead and Jim Anderson. The goals were scored just 15 seconds apart. As The period came to its dose Union tallied once more as returning Junior sensation Bill Mason tipped in. a slap per by .· Dave Ferguson to put ·Union ahead, 4-1. In the second period Union outshot Colgate, 13-12. Moving into the third it ap- peared that a revitalized Colgate squad had ta·ken the ice as the Red Raiders scored two quick goals, the first .by Ken fselmore at the 0:54 ma·rk the se9on.d at the 7:31 mark by Demus La,pensee. The goals came against impressive rookie Rooert Holmes who shut out Colgate the rest of the way turning back 18 shots on net. The final two Union goals were icing on the cake coming at 12:54 and 14:50 respectively-- Mike Martelli off of a slapper from Mark Bon with Jim Burns lending a hand~ the second scored by Mickey Perras unassisted as he was left unguarded in front of the· nets. In the final period Union found itself shorthanded four times, including the last 2:46 THE GAME 1st PERIOD: SCORING: None minutes of the game, and. olitshot a lopsided 20-fi. All in all Colgate outshot Union 52-28 in the game. After the game Coach Charlie Morri>on was hesitant yet highly optimistic about the team's future. He was. . . \pleased and elated\. .about his team's victory and he felt that. .. \everybody played well and that it was a solid team effort.\ Yet he did express caution about the team resting on its laurels,' saying, ... \we'll take each game one at a time; each period one at a time; each shift one at a time.'' When asked about the futures of the three Union goalies, who combin~d to set back 49 Colgate shots; Morrison noted that he could not single out any one over the others ... \whoever is hot will play.\ Union suited up 5 offensive lines, 4 defensive lines, and 3 goalies for a total of .28 players. The legal maximum in regular season play is 20. The next home game is the fi.nal pre-season event against A.I.C. on Saturday, Nov. 10 in achilles Rink at 8:00 p.m. Tickets are on sale at the Rink this week from 8:30a.m. to 4:30 p.m. at a cost of $2.00. Penalties: Lapansee, Colgate, Tripping, 0:36; Gertsakis, Colgate, High Stick, 13: 17; Perras, Union, Interference, 13:17. 2nd PERIOD . . _ SCORING: Colgate, 1, DeCock (Gertsakis, Marris), 6: 18; Union, l, Turnbull (anderson), 8:42; Union, 2, Nicholson (Whitehead, Anderson), 13:50; Union, 3, Nicholson (Whitehead), 14:05; Union, 4, Mason (Ferguson), 19:53. PENAL TIES: Frigden, Colga·te, Roughing, ()<: 18; Di L-ibera, Union, Roughing, 0: 18; Sterling, Colgate, Charging, 3:30; Mat- teosian, Colgate, Cha.rging, 7:35; Mercer, Union, Elbowing, 9;56; Moodie, Colgate, Cross-check, 14:50; Renaud, Colgate, Cross- check, 14: 50; Renaud, Colgate, Cross-check, 18:27; Morris, Colgate, Unsportsmanlike Conduct, 18: 29'. Jrd PERIOD SCORING: Colgate, 2, tslemore (Roesler, Frigden), 0:54; Colgate, 3, Lapensee (Morris, Wieckgenaunt), 7:31; Union, 5, Martelli (Bonn, Burns), 12:54; Union, 6, Perras (unassisted), 14:50 PENALTIES: Carlson, Union, Interference, 1:30; Ferguson, Union, Late Check, 6:22; Houle, Colgate, Hooking, 6: 38; Burns, Union, Elbowin.g, 7: 14; Marr, Union, Interference, 8:29; Roesler, Colgate, Holding, 13: 15; Di Ubero, Union, Holding, 13: 15; Bonn, Union, Butt End .and Game Misconduct, 17: 14 (served by ~-J~ft&GTZ ®. :: Mtfl~W<'$'J:::Ji~,d•n+:W->~ll· • .. ~ '\' r Junior Jim Josephson Ice Hockey Schedule Pre S..ason No. J. 1979 Colgate 8 00 p m Pre Season f';o .. 10 19\'Q A I C B 00 p m Nc .. 17 1971y Elm1ra 7 30 p m Nov 20 197> Cortland 8 00 P m No.. ~.1. 197q Army .., 30 p ·m No• 13. ·910 Plattsburg 7 30 p.m 0<-o 1 1979 Butfalo 8 00 p.m DE-c IJ. 1979 E1'ntra . 8 00 p.m DE-c 11 & 2l. 1979 UNION'S HOl·IDAY TOURNAMENT l HamJiton. Os'A-eqo. HriJ Cross & Union·) Jan l. 1980 Salem State 8 00 il m Jan J .& 5. 1980 WILLIAMS TOURNAMENT (Babson. Oswego Unoon & Williams! Jan. B. 1980 North Adams 8 00 ~ .. m Jan 12'. 1980 Oswego 8 00·•. m Jan 16. 1980 Buffalo 7 30 p.m. Jan 19. 1980 Potsdam 2 00 p.m Jan 23. 1980 Plattsburg 8 00 p m Jan 15. 1980 Babson • 00 p.m Jan ,26, 1980 Colby 4 00 R m Jan 30. 1980 M>ddlebury 8 00 p.m Feb l. 1980 Holy Cross 8 00 p m Feb 5. 1980 Brockport 8 00 p m Feb 9, 1980 Colgate 7 30 p.m. Feb 10. 1980 Poland's Olymp1c Team 2 00 p m Feb 12, 1980 Wliloams 7 30 p m Feb 15, 1980 Merrimack 7 30 p m Feb 19, 1980 Potsdam 8 00 p m Feb. 23. 1980 Westf1eld 8 00 p. m Feb 26, 1980 New Haven 8 00 p m Feb lB. 1980 Cortland 7 30 p m Home Home Away Home Away Away Home Home 12 21 79 6 & 9 p.m. 12 22 79. 5 & 8 p.m. Home J. 30 & 7 30 p.m Away Home H\qme Away· Away Home Away Awav Away Home Home Away Horne Away Away Home Away Home Away • 1 4# -~ At the midway point of the 2nd period, Coach Terry Slater ·of Whitehead). 1-----------------------------------------, ~--------------~~--------· Men's Basketball Season Opener UNJON .vs. UTICA Thurs., Nov. 29 Check next week's issue of Concordiensis for a special giveaway offer from McDonald'sl' ;/ ---------~---- I .. ----- -------· . Friday Night · . · · lntrasquad Scrintmage / Fieldhouse, 7 p.m. p Preview this yecir'* varsity hoop squad. ' . Par- T-~hiris Boutique Carrying a full line of * Sportswear *Transfers . I . *Lettering , Custom Screen Printing \We 1 U Print Anything\ Spetia I''UN ION\ Price With yot;r I. o . 85~ Albany Street Ne~t door to the \Market Place\ . ~46-6584 SPORTS HAPPENINGS Nov. 8-Nov.14 fast Varsity Football Va.rsity Soccer X- Country free ... d:elivery -372-4441 ; Nov. 10 vs. Hamilton ECAC Tourn. Nov. 10 at Hamilton Regionals Nov. 10 at Binghamton

CONCORDIENSIS, November 8, 19\19 Pre-Season Opener: Icemen Slash Colgate by RICH UECKER and MATT KAYNE minutes of the game, and ot:itshot a lopsided 20~. All in all Colgate outshot Union 52-28 in the game. / •. 1!1 perhaps t~e most stunning Mpset victory in this team's 11istory the Union College Skating Dutchmen ·downed Division I Colgate, 6-3, here at Achilles Rink on Saturday night in the first of two regularly scheduled pre-season games .of the 1979-80 season. Colgate substituted third- stringer Guy Lemonde for Schaefer. Lemonde was quickly greeted by Union's second and third goals -both off of the stick of freshman Brad Nicholson with help from Bill Whitehead and Jim Anderson. The goals were scored just 15 seconds apart. As the period came to its close Union tallied ence more as returning Junior sensation Bill Mason tipped in a slapper by Dave Ferguson to put Union ahead, 4-1. In the second period Union outshot Colgate, 13-12. - ~7~ (, Last year Colgate defeated Union twice and finished two games over the 500 mark in Division I play while the Dut- chmen finished 5-21 in Division II r>lay for their then rookie coach, Charlie Morrison. On Saturday night, however, a uewly f0rtified, young and eager team sporting 15 fresh- men and only 9· upperclassmen proved to0 strong for the Red Raiders. As the game opened, in the first period, last year's retur- ming sophomore goalie, Mike Merlo, took the ice, and proved to be an impenetrable foe. Colgate fired 20 shots on net, none getting by Merlo. Despite strong checking - both fore and back - the Union offense con- sisting of five lines in this preseason event could only muster 9 shots on second string Colgate Goalie, Drew Schaefer. First string goalie, Terry McSweeney was unable to play due to a hand injury. The first f>eriod was whistle- ladden with numerous offside and icing infractions as both teams appeared to be a bit sluggish. In the second, senior goalie Davie Josephson sub- stituted for Merlo and showed signs of his old self, warding off 11 of 12 Colgate shots on net -the one goal a squibbler off of Murray DeCock's stick which slipped past Josephson and into the nets. This first goal of the game put Colgate ahead 1..{) at the 6: 18 mark. Just moments later, however, freshman center Brian Turnbull of Union connected on a powerplay goal at 8:42 assisted by Jim Anderson, tying the score at 1-1. Moving into the third it ap- peared that a revitalized Colgate squad had taken the ice as the Red Raiders scored two quick goals, the first by Ken Iselmore at the 0:54 mark the second at the 7:31 mark by Dennis Lapensee. The goals came agai>Hst impressive rookie Robert Holmes who shut out Colgate the rest of the way turning back 18 shots on net. The final two Union goals were icing on the cake coming at 12:54 and 14:50 respectively- Mike MarteUi off of a slapper from Mark Bon with Jim Burns lending a hand; the second scored by Mickey Perras unassisted as he was left unguarded in front of the nets. In the final period Union found itself shorthanded four times, including the last 2:46 THE GAME 1st PERIOD: SCORING: None After the game Coach Charlie Morri ;on was hesitant yet highly optimistic about the team's future. He was. . . \pleased and elated\. .about his team's victory and he felt that ... \everybody played well and that it was a solid team effort.\ Yet he did express caution about the team resting on its laurels, saying, .. :·we'll take each game one at a time; each peried one at a time; each shift one at a time.\ When asked about the futures of the three Union goalies, who combined to set back 49 Colgate shots, Morrison noted that he could not single out any one over the others ... \whoever is hot will play.\ Union suited up 5 offensive lines, 4 defensive lines, and 3 goalies for a total of 28 players. The legal maxirnwn in regular season play is 20. The next home game is the final pre-season event against A.I.C. on Saturday, Nov. 10 in achilles Rink at 8:00 p.m. Tickets are on sale at the Rink this week from 8:30a.m. to 4:30 p.m. at a cost of $2.00. Penalties: Lapansee, Colgate, Tripping, 0:36; Gertsakis, Colgate, High Stick, 13: 17; Perras, Union, Interference, 13:17. 2nd PERIOD . SCORING: Colgate, L DeCock (Gertsakis, Marris), 6: 18; Union, 1, Turnbull (anderson), 8:42; Union, 2, Nicholson (Whitehead, Anderson), 13:50; Union, 3, Nicholson (Whitehead), 14:05; Union, 4, Mason (Ferguson), 19:53. PENAL TIES: Frigden, Colgate, Roughing, 0: 18; DiLibero, Union, Ruughing, 0: 18; Sterling, Colgate, Charging, 3:30; Mat- teosian, Colgate, Charging, 7:35; Mercer, Union, Elbowing, 9;56; Moodie, Colgate, Cross-check, 14:50; Renaud, Colgate, Cross- check, 14: 50; Renaud, Colgate, Cross-check, 18:27; Morris, Colgate, Unsportsmanlike Conduct, 18:27. 3rd PERIOD SCORING: Colgate, 2, lslemore (Roesler, FrigdenL 0:54; Colgate, 3, Lapensee (Morris, Wieckgenaunt), 7:31; Union, 5, Martelli (Bonn, Burns), 12:54: Union, 6, Perras (unassisted), 14:50 PENALTIES: Carlson, Union, Interference, 1:30; Ferguson, Union, Late Cl:leck, 6:22; Houle, Colgate, Hooking, 6: 38; Burns, Union, Elbowing, 7: 14; Marr, Union, Interference, 8:29; Roesler, Colgate, Holding, 13: 15; Di Libera, Union, Holding, 13: 15; Bonn, Union, Butt End and Game Misconduct. 17:14 (served by Prr St'dt,O,., Prt' 5-E>d'>C\I\' '<o. f.oo. Nr. No, No. No. ()r; Drc Doc l '9'Q '0 n~'o 19''r 10 \Q7;, 'J 1970 .'] 9'0 1979 I J 1979 )I & )), Junior Jim Josephson Ice Hockey Schedule (olga'e 800pn-> A ! ( 8 00 p m Elm.ra r 30 p m Cortland SOOpm A.rmy • 30 p m Pta'tsbvrg 7 30 p m Buffalo SOOpm E l'l'l•ra 8 00 p m 1919 uNIONS HOLIDAY TOURNAMENT tHamilfon Os..-.eqo HC'I I c~os5 & Unton) Jan 2 1980 Salem State 8 00 om Jan ' & '> 1980 WILLIAMS TOURNAME\l1 < Bdbson Oswe-go Untcn &. Will tams 1 Jan 8. 1980 North Adams 8 00 p;~ m Jan 17 1980 O;wego 8 00 • m Jan 16 198() Buffalo ' 30 p m Jan lQ 19M Potsdam 2 00 p m Jan 23 1980 Plattsburg 8 00 p m Jan 2~ 1980 Babson J 00 p m Jan '16. 1980 Colby J 00 p rn Jan 30 1960 M•ddleburv 8 00 p m Feb 2 1980 Hal., Cross 8 00 p m Feb S 1980 Brockport 8 00 p m Feb 9 1980 Colgate J 30 p m Feb 10 1980 Poland s Olymptc Te-am I 00 p m Feb 12 1980 W1lilams ' 30 IJ m Feb 1) 1980 tv\ernmack 7 30 p m Feb 19 1980 Pot•dam 8 00 p m Feb n 1980 We,tfteld 8 00 p m Feb 26. 198() Nt'w Haven B 00 p m Feb 28 198() Cortland J 30 p m Home Home Away Home Awav Away Home Hom~ 12 11 79 6 & 9 p m 12 22 79 5 & B p m Home ' 30 & 7 JO p m Away Home Hom~ Away Away Home Away Awa'f Avvav Home Homp Avvav Home Awa'l Awa~ Home Avvav Home Awa~ ' $!!$ At the midway point of the 2nd pl'riod, Coach Terry Slater of Whitehead). 1-------~-------------------------------, ------------------~--------, Men's Basketball Season Opener UNION vs. UTICA Thurs., Nov. 29 Check next week's issue of Concordiensis for a special giveaway offer from McDonald's! -------------------~-------· Friday Night lntrasquad Scrimmage Fieldhouse, 1 p.m. Preview this year's va·rsity hoop squad. Par~ T-Shirts Boutique Carrying a full line of *Sportswear *Transfers *lettering Custom Screen Printing \We'll Print Anything\ SpeCial \UN ION\ Price With your I. D. 859 AI bany Street Next door to the \Market PI ace\ 346-6584. SPORTS HAPPENINGS Nov. 8 - Nov. 14 fast Varsity Football Varsity Soccer X- Country free ... delivery 372-4441 < c opyr 1gh·t 1979 Nov. 10 vs. Hamilton ECAC Tourn. Nov. 10 at Hamilton Regionals Nov. 10 at Binghamton I I I I I II! I

Page 16 . 5pOrt5· OONOORDIENSISJ _llovember BJ 1979 . . . . . ' . . ' - < • • • ' - • ' ' \ . ' . ' . Boaters Earn ECAC Bid byMIKEC.A'~ING The UniOn hooters began the past week with a big 2-1 victory over Binghamton. Chris Walsh took a curving pass from Jim Stoothoff with only a· few minutes left in the first half and put a well placed shot past the Binghamton goalie. The Dut~ chmen dominated the early part of the second half and quickly upped the score to 2-0. Keith Miller kicked a shot into the goal befor~ the goalie had time to react. Union's defense took over from that point and turned back almost all of Bingham- ton's scoring attempts. Binghamton did manage to scote on a throw which glanced off of Doug Crawfora's hand and into the net. score of the game. An out- standing game wasturnedinby goalie Doug Crawford, who was chosen_as player of the week. 1 Uhion hosted Oneonta on Tues,day in their last regular season game. ~lthough the Senior Mike Mulpeter The Union :s()ccer team's quest for a second. consecutive bid to play in. :th.e N.C.A:A. tournament was rejected by the tournament selection com• mittee this 1 past Sunday. Despite notching ?shutouts and allowing only eigllt goals all year, the Dutch:men were overlooked for thoe N.C.A.A. tournament. Bids were ex- tended on Sunda)' for the New York-New Jersey Eegfon and Cortland and Ithaca were selected from New Ymk while Glassboro State a11d WilHam Patterson· were ,chosen from ~ New Jersey. rbe Dutchmen have, however, bEen selected to the New York State E.C.A.C. tournament and will play Fredonia on Saturday at- Hamilton College. Shollld Union win Saturday's rrutch, they will play Sunday agai:nst the winner of the Hamilton-Rochester game. Un Saturday, in the Division III game of the we.ek, · Union battled Rochester evenly WJtil _ the last six minutes of the game. Then, Keith Miller broke through the Rochester defense and drilled a low shot past the on rushing goalie for the only _ game meant nothing regarding post season play for the Dut- chmen, the team played well against· their Division I op- ponent, who is expected to get a bid for the N.C~A.A. Division I tournament, The teams battled to a scoreless tie in the first half. Oneonta put · const;:~nt pressure on the Dutchmen defense in the second half but Crawford rejected many shots wHh spectacular sa-ves. However, one shot was placed beautifully over Crawford's outstretched hands and went inb> the goal for the only score of the game. Still the Dutchmen played well in what was the last home game for the eight seniors, who all ~tarted the game. NIAC Tourney: V-Ball Places Third Union Volleyball placed third in the NIAC tournament held this past Saturday at Williams. Rival Williams, who Union beat 8-15, 15-5, 15~7 during the season, captured the number one spot in the tournament. A skillful Smith club placed second. Russel Sage and Mount Holyoke placed behind Union, taking the number four and five spots . respectively. The first game against Mt. native team. Setter Brenda Hugick deserves special mention as does strong side hitter Natalie ''Belgium Bomber\ Stone Vlh() displayed her overall consistent skill work. The Volleyball team end their season w-ith the best record in the history of V..:bali at Union. Their outstanding win-loss record of 16-3·2 proves that Women'·s Volleyball ·' has definitely made a lasting im- print on sports at lJnion College. Holyoke got off to a sluggish start with The UColl women trailing 2-13. Before the op- position could score the two decisive points, UColl gained momentum and surprised Mt. Holyoke with a come back victory of 15-13. Mt. Holyoke, seemingly unprepared for -the strong skills exhibited by Union, proceeded to lose the second game as well, giving Union a 15- 8 win and the match. The winning score of one game in a match is a p.oor in· dicator of how skillful or un· skillful a team really is. This was best exemplified by the Union-Williams matchr UColl lost the first game against the tournament-winning team 1-15. Such a score would probably break the spirit of any other V- ball team, but remember this is Union that we're talking about. The UColl women made their second dynamic comeback of the tournament with a 17-15 victory. Russel Sage and Union won a game a piece as well with winning scores of 15-11 for Union and 15-6 for Sage. Williams and Smith rnade it into the playoffs. The victor was decided by the team winning the best two out of three games. A third game was unnecessary as Williams swept the match with victory scores in the first two games. Harriers Go T ~ Ifegionals Smith, having both height advanta~e and exceotionallv good skills, defeated Union 154, 15-10 in the second match of the tournament. The Union team played hard against the tough competition. Junior Sheila O'Donnel was selected for the all-star alter- Gridders Bow The Union Cdlege cross- country team snapped out of a midseason slump with a sixth place finish in the 25 team New York State Championships at Binghamton Saturday. With the strong showing, the Dutchmen emerged as a factor in the NCAA Div. III regionals this Saturday. · _ A major reason for the strOng showing was the running of freshmen Ed Ar.nbeiter and Adam Licht. The r»air earned by RICH HOPE Middlebury gained over 400 yards on offense while Union defenders were on the field for 104 plays as the Panthers beat Union 34-0 at Middlebury last Saturday. Middlebury's defense stopped the Dutchmen cold, allowing them only 80 yards total offense, 99 in the air and minus 19 rushing. Offensively, Mid- dlebury looked strong, scoring in all four quarters and com- pletely dominating the game. Panther running back Frank DeLuca rushed 18 times for 103 yards to pace Middlebury's attack .. Union struggled on offense all day. Halfback Rich Romer had nine carries for only 11 yards and Kevin Frederick gained 12 yards in one try, only to be erased by Middlebmy defen- ders who had nwnerous sacks behind the Dutchmen's line of scrimmage for big yardage losses. For Union, Saturday's .game was their last chance for a .500 season. It was the eighth All-state honors vvitli their 13th straight year that Middlebury and 15th p·lace finishes in the 200 had defeated Union. The Dutchmen end their man field. Arnheiter was the first freshman to tour the season at home next week when -- course, finishing in 27:01, with they play host to Hamilton. Licht two seconds- back. In EXTRA POINTS: addition, the pair were among Outside linebacker Kevin the first finishers in the meet Wolfe badly stretched from among division III teams ligaments in his right knee and and appear as .strong can- will be sidlined for the dictates to qua li:fy for the remainder of the season. . nationals as individuals this Junior Defensive End Mark Saturday. · Palomba will be dressed for By a strange ~:oincidence the action in this week's game vs. pair's 13th artd 15th place Hamilton. Palomba has been finishes were the same places sidelined since the RPI game they had finished last year in with torn ligaments in liis right the State high scbo(}l cross- ankle. · country meet. Seniors who will be playing Teammate J ohrl Casale also their last game this Saturday turned in an excep1ional · per- ar~ Rich Delaney, Kevin formance. Making good on his Eberly, Kevin Frederick, Rich claim to \tun Viitll the big Romer, Kevin Kormondy, Steve dogs,'' Casale finished lard with McCarthy, Doug Napodano, a time of 27:25. However, he Carm Saginario, Gordie Single, may , have sufferecJ a stress Mike Squier, Wayne Tunick, fractme in the fin~l quarter Terry Weber. Other seniors who mile of the race and- is listed as are sidelined with illjuries are questionable for tb~ regional Bill Egan, Ron Plumb and Andy meet. Jarrett. Dave Dellehunt aclded a 56th place finish to the team scoring. Tom Hallenbeck completed the team's total with a 61st place - finish. Jack Connor and Pete Vielkind rounded out the team With 69th and 95th place finishes respecteively. The Dutchmen's finish was their highest in state com- petition in ten years. A repeat of the state meet performance this Saturday could conceivably result in a trip to the national championships in Rock Island, Illinois next week. Union fin- sihed fifth among the division III teams at the state meet with 178 points. Division Ill rivals Rochester and St. Lawrence finished third and fourth respectively with totals of 170 and 173 points. The first four teams in the regional meet will qnalify for the nationals-the fifth won't. Jack Connor echoed the sentiments of the team as a whole when he said, \I'd say that we've got Rock Island fever.·~ In addition, the team has the additive incentive that the race could be the last one for sometime for Coach Ted Bick. Bick will be away on sabbatical next year and probably will not be coaching the team next fall. The regional meet will take place in Binghamton this Saturday at noon. Junior Jack- Connor • 0 ( - Vo - -· ·'''· G the fou dis1 the Sy~ far its ~a PI Go twE friE 1 be£ dis me Sui dU< ~ul spE of rer Co stt Stt ad Go mi an I ar.r a f; fac ye Co thi an ap vo tw ' Me fac jUJ F~ Dt a re' RE de an al: ·al qt ac of te or: 49 wl po ffil ()p jUJ te1 ail

on the op- I but es. d's ent ast ill a ay nd .. - - Founded ~~ Union College 1877 ~ VoL 1 09, No. 9 - Schenectady,_ New York Thursdny, Nov. 15, 1979 ~~- . Middle States: Studellt Life Report -· 1 ·'l by P 4-UL FEIN SOT \Testimony from students. faculty, ~nd administrators cau.ses us to conclude that at-the present time, the educational focus at Union is often narrow ·a n d e x c e s s i ,. e l y preprofessional, . emphasizes the accumulation of in- formation, and is too oriented toward the achievement of r grades.'' . John Sowa, Chairman of the Student Lite Lommmee- -- - This statement is excerpted from the opening remarks of the Preliminary Report of the Drafting. Committee on Student F acuity Convenes by ANDREW WISOFF On Monday, November 12th, the G~neral Faculty met for the fourth time in two weeks to discuss and vote each section of the proposed new Governance System of Union Col).ege. Thus far,- tb~.-faewty has \eompleted its deliberations and voted on !approximately two-thirds of the Governance Proposals and twelve of the eighteen..--\un- friendly\ amdnements. The . fourth faculty meeting began. with a continuation of a discussion concerning the membership of the Standing Sub-CouncU on Student Con- duct. The Student Forum had wbmitted an amendment specifying that the membership of the Conduct Sub-Council remain the same as the present Conduct Committee: nirie students. and the- Dean/ of Students' designee (serving as advisor without vote). The Governance Drafting Com- mittee had labeled the Forum amendmenfl as \friendly.\ However, t-he Forum amendment was challenged_ by a faculty amendment to add one faculty member to serve a thre.e year term on the Student Conduct Sub-Council. Following the debate, the Faculty amendment was voted with approximately fifty members voting in favor, ten opposed and twenty abstentions. · The second major debate· at Monday's meeting concerned a faculty amendment \to add a junior faculty member to the Faculty Review Board.\ During the course.of the debate, a substitute amendment to reduce the size of the Faculty ReYiew Board was narrowly defeated (35-39). Other amendments to the amendment also faUed. Following a call for a quorum, it was learned that a quorum had been narrowly achieved (88 out of 162 members of the faculty were in at- tendance) .. Finally,.when the vote on the original amendment was called, 49 members voted in favor while 28 members were op· posed. Most of the senior faculty members in attendance were opposed, while almost ev:ery j~iot faculty member\ in at· tendance was in favor of the amendment. The final amendment back to the Governance discussed at Monday's faculty Drafting Committee for meeting, concerned the addition revision. of _the College Affirmative Also during last Monday's Action- Officer to the Faculty meeting, the Faculty debated Revjew Boartl to serve ex of- an amendment \to have ficio without vote: Although no Divisi9nal representatives faculty member expressed nominated by their Divisions opposition to the ~oncept of but elected by the General affirmative action, there was Faculty,\ C~nd an amendment to considerable disagreement • 's tip u 1 ate Division a I over the propriety of placing an representation among student affirmative officer on the members of the Academic Faculty Review Board. ·Affairs Council.\ Both of these Seventeen members of the amendments were soundly_ Fa.cul-ty expressed both defeated. favorable and unfavorable The final amendment debated philosophical and practical at the second meeting was an arguments during the 40 minute· entire rewording of the long debate. Finally, when the responsibilities of the Academic amendment was called to a Affairs Counsel. The amend- vote, a ,member requested a ment was approved by a wide secret ballot. When the votes margin. were all counted, the amend- The following day, the faculty ment lost on a tie, 42-42; (In met once again from 4:30p.m. . order to pass, an amendment ' until 6: 15 p.rh. At the third must receive a majority vote of meeting, the Faculty accepted a the.. members present). Student Forum amendment At toe first of the four Faculty which defined the membership meetings, held on October !3th, of the Standing Sub-Council on two major debates concerning the Academic Standing of the organization of the Faculty Students. The Forum Amend- consumed most of the 90 minute ment stipulated that the Sub- meeting. The first debate Cofmcil membership continue concerned a \friendly\ .. as presently constituted: four amendment which granted faculty members, three faculty status (and intern students and three ad- · voting · privileges) · to \ad• ministrators. ministrators closely involved Howe:ver, the faculty added with matters of educational some language to the Forum policy. tt By secret ballot, the amendment stipulating that the Faculty voted not to grant the Chairman of the Sub-Council Director of the Library faculty could,only be a faculty member, status, as recommended by the that the Registrar serve as Governance Drafting Com• Secretary (as presently con- mittee. The vote was 70-10 with stitut~;d) and that the Clfilirman ~ one member abstaining. would not be a member of the During the course of the parent Academic Affairs second debate, it became _ap- Council. Originally, the Forum parent that the 'Junior Faculty amendment had eliminated one were overwhelmingly opposed faculty member from the Sub- to an amendment which sought Council, but before the third '_'to remove part-time faculty Faculty meeting, the Forum from yoting membership in the narrowly voted to keep the -General Faculty.\ After a status quo. lengthy debate, durfng which Also at the thir.d meeting, the 'the President of the College Faculty accepted .an amend- -Felinquished 'the Chair to speak ment \to change from 10 per- to the. amendment, the amend· cent to 20 percent tile number of ment was defeated. · Faculty required to sign a At the second Faculty petition to call for a meeting of meeting, which was held one the General Faculty to debate a wee'k later, the Faculty voted to recommendation of the defeat the section of the Academic Affairs Council.\ Governance Report which Following one minor addition, defined the Criteria for Blection , the faculty voted over- of Faculty Members. This . . whelmingly to accept a Student particular section was sent continued ~n page 10 Life and Student Affairs. The intent of the report \is to make people aware of problems in the, hope that eventually attitudes will change.'' Therefore, the draft emphasizes the negative aspects of student life in order to .help achieve these ends. The report cites a statement from the current catalogue which states that \Union ~ollege believ~s that students should learn to gather and evaluate information, to think coherently, to write succinctly, to form aesthetic judgements, and to view their world from a perspective of knowledge.\ The committee does not disagree with this, but it believes that the failure to include the development of the complete person as an integral part of Union's philosophy of education has an ultimately detrimental effect on the achievement of the educational goals indicated in the preceding passage. The draft suggests specific ob- · jectives which should serve as criteria in the development and evaluation of programs and services in an attempt to provid-e a better Liberal Education. It states that the colfege has a responsibility to: 1. Assist students to develop interpersonal skills by providing organized activities. 2. Assist students to finance their education by providing funds, information, and financial counseling services. 3. Assist students to resolve physical and mental health problems which impede academic and-or personal growth. 4. Assist students to develop plans for their life after Union through information ·and counseling, and to identify and help secure post-graduate vocational and educational opportunities. 5. Provide housing which is safe, secure and supportive of academic .and personal in- volvements. 6. Provide adequate facilities for out-of-classroom activities of a social, recreational, or cultural nature. 7. Inform students of policies and traditions through the development of publications, orientation programs, and special events. 8. Assist students to develop appropriate behavior patterns and an understan'tling of a wide range of people, values, cUltures, and viewpoints. 9. Assist students to develop autonomy and a sense of .per- sonal identity by providing services which encourage self- assessment and decision- making. - 10. Assist students to develop an integrated set of values to goide their personal behavior. 11. Provide adequate time for reflection, development of aesthetic appreciation, and human relationships. 12. Provide a range of food seryices which respond to the nutritional and social needs of the campus community. 13. Provide adequate security for persons and property. The committee found that three general themes rectirred frequently throughout their meetings: anti-intellectualism pervades the campus com· munity; there is a general lack of commitment to the un- dergraduate student; and, there is a lack of pride in and com: mitment to Union College. The anti-intellectualism is reflective of the fact that students approach their college education in a manner that is - highly goal-directed and future- oriented. The fear of failure to achieve high grades, which many see as important to their future success, results in the tremendous emphasis put on the attainmeJ!j of such grades. The report concludes that students who become obsessed with this preoccupation with grades, and they appear to be the majority, tend, to a greater or lesser degree, to divide theit college experience into rigid, non-overlapping categories. \First there is the category of those things that really Contmued on page 10 Senior Trustee Mark Burnett

Page 2 Editors-in-chief News Editor Features Editor Layout Editors Sports Editor . Assistant Men's Sports Editor Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Arts Editors Calendar Photo Staff Copy Editor Classifieds Staff Business Manager OONOORDIENSIS, November 15, 1979 . Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons Paul Sue J:Sarnr1ar1t 1 Rachel Mandel, Disco Woinilow1~r Mark CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office:. Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8 1 !2 Reynolds Ave., Oneonta;NewYork 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere,.in the States. :::::::;::!:::::!:::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::· ~~ CONCORDJEJVSIS ·it .... ·.·. I 1 :::: u:ill be under neu· rr•ana!lemeut :::: ~ ~ in the Tf?inter Ternl. ~f' you are interested ;, work ill!( on the sta.ff in any capacity u·hatsoel·er~ please contact I ~ :m: Patd Feinsot J~ :~~~: ( 3 77-32 73) ~;~ ::::: ::: w ~ l\'~:~W:O>: Personal Service I think most of us are aware of the problems that arise from time to time with the personals column of Concordiensis. For instance, because they're submitted anonymously, people may be hurt. And they might be less 'personal' than would be desired sometimes, as well as there being no guarantees that your personals will be printed. Well, now a similar service will be provided on campus that can make a guarantee that your . message will get through, and in person. A group called \Melodic Messengers\ will offer a service called \Melograms an offshoot of the old singing telegram con· cept. The service, a_ subsidiary of the purely fictional company called Eastern Union, can offer the customer any of six char- ming messengers. These messengers are : Patti Chaifetz, Natalie Barandes, Rob Imrie, Demetra Pon- tisakos, Verna Lowe, and Tom Farrell. To have one of these charmers sing a 16 word message to the recipient of your choice costs a mere $1.00 and each additional word costs 10 . cents. To have two of the above deliver your message costs $L50, three messengers costs $2.00, four costs $2.50, five costs $3.00 and six costs $3.50. These rates, to make sure that the messengers stay charming, triple on messages to be delivered between the hours of 1:00 and 8:00 a.m. Melo-grams may b~ delivered to anyone on campus or in the vicinity at any hour, but the group reserves the right to reject any message thought to be unduly offensive. Unfortunately, if the would-be of the Melo-gram is not to be found at the given time, there cannot be a refund. o Do you want to send a Melom gram? It's so easy; here's all you do. Beginning Monday, November 19, go to the lounge outside of student activities with the money and the message you'd like delivered, anr weekday between 12:00 and 2: 30 p.m. As to the tune, the groqp has a number of standard tunes it can use, or you can set the lyrics to a specific melody. Saturday and Sunday messages must be submittea by Friday. If you request a specific messenger, due to academic demands you must have alternate days and times in mii:td: IF YOU ORDER TEN MELo-GRAMS, we'll give you a basic 16 word . message for free! So come see us - we're sure we can work something out. Remember, Eastern Union · Melo-grarns are the 'next best thing to singing it yd'flrself. b! An ml.lCh campt hours librar c~ang many has : towar1 this c weree by .a : by 1 revea about The this tt Mor ll:OOr F'ri( Satl Sun Pre-e w'eekE 18th : 2nd. Mor above Fril Sat1 Sun Jea Iibra1 redist close~ Frida hours aqva: Num1 stude press chan1 librar Alo tally· durin declir night: Mrs. were the li Ace refer1 was~ askec de en needt noted there finals more Th posit Pro~ Thor Prof who pro~ seer< now - Fr seer 1977 teac leve stud havE and fron Ht addi will inte1 plan forn proj stud pliet Tl the- pro~ Aus alte The pro{ sum Eng fall and win I and yeaJ 81

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, November 15, 1979 Editors-in-Chief News Editor · Features Editor Layout Editors Sports Editor Assistant Men's Sports Editor Women's Sports Editor Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons Paul Feinsot · Sue Barnhart Rachel Mandel, Disco Wojnilower Mark Palomba Rich Hope. Barb Plotkin' Pat Wright Steve Monosson, Cindy Aranow Ellen Berger, Maria Manfredonia Jeff Steinberg Ell(m VanDyke Roberta Moss Melissa Gold, Ellen Rubin Carole Reinig: Photo Editor Arts Editors Calendar Photo Staff Copy Editor Classifieds Staff Business Manager CONCORDIENSIS is pubHshed every Thursday by the student' body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8 1 '2. Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere'•in the J.Jnited States. ;:::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::~::: ~ ~ ~ ~ :::: (;O.YCORDIE.\· .. ~IS :;: ~ ~ ~ ~ » ~ ~ ~ :::: zri/1 bP under llPlf 11Hl1Ulpem en t ::: ill i ·•·• 111 tlu~ ff'inter TPrm. ·.·. I I ~f you arP in tPrested in H·orkin{! 011 tlu~ staff 111 all_Y rafHU'ity what.\iOf>l'f'r. plPm~e con tad \~\ Puu I f'p i WWI m * ~ ::: ( .'l77 -32 7.'l) ::: h ~ ~ ~ x or ~ :1 Dm111a f:weley ( .17 0-6 2 58) .::: t:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::1 Personal Service I think most of us are aware of the problems that arise from time to time with the personals column of Concordiensis. For instance, because they're submitted anonymously, people may be hurt. And they might be less 'personal' than would be desired sometimes, as well as there being no guarantees that your personals will be printed. Well, now a similar service will be provided on campus that can make a guarantee that your message will get through, and in person. A group called \Melodic Messengers\ will offer a service called \Melograms an offshoot of the old singing telegram con- cept. The service, a subsidiary of the purely fictional company called Eastern Union, can offer the customer any of six char- ming messengers. These messengers are : Patti Chaifetz, Natalie Barandes, Rob Imrie, Demetra Pon- tisakos, Verna Lowe, and Tom Farrell. To have one of these charmers sing a 16 word message to the recipient of your choice costs a mere $1.00 and each additional word costs 10 cents. To have two of the above deliver your message costs $1.50, three messengers costs $2.00, four costs $2.50, five costs $3.00 and six costs $3.50. These rates, to make sure that the messengers stay charming, triple on messages to be delivered between the hours of 1:00 and 8:00 a.m. Melo-grarns may be delivered to anyone on campus or in the vicinity at any hour, but the group reserves the right to reject any message thought to be unduly offensive. Unfortunately, if the would-be of the Melo-gram is not to be found at the given time, there cannot be a refund. .. Do you want to send a Melo- gram? It's so easy; here's all you do. Beginning Monday, November 19, go to the lounge outside of student activities with the money and the message you'd like delivered, any weekday between 12:00 and 2:30 p.m. As to the tune, the group has a nwnber of standard tunes it can use, or you can set the lyrics to a specific melody. Saturday and Sunday messages must be submitte'ii by Friday. If you request a specific messenger, due to academic demands you must have alternate days and times in mind. IF YOU ORDER TEN MELO-GRAMS, we'll give you a basic 16 word message for free! So come see us - we're sure we can work something out. Remember, Eastern Union Melo-grams are the next best thing to singing it yobrself. etter . .. . .. .• .. . . ..•.......•. ' ... Anoth . ·eO· LO' a· ··k· ·· A·t .. . . ' · ... ·.. . . . .• . •.. ··. . ·r .. ··· .. ·. ~. {i·' , . ·• ,. L ··t A.· u······ • · · .1·· ..•.•.•. :_ ··, ···· <f, : ... ··. ,, ,.'·,.n;, ·····l···~o· < ..•• ~.····n·· ·,. · . -' '-:- - :-.- . .- ,-: :··:-.-.·· ' : - -' ' - .. ,. Sit back my readers and you shall hear ·' ·\ A rebuttal to a letter that was Q}l sa sev~. I could make blind genemltationsbut th8Jtwould\'be SU:ty l Why sht:>uld I redUce myself to tbe level t?t Floyd and W1Ul? Yes I wannabe a doctor and thattS\ realJ¥ ne~tt · Take ste.k people off their deathbed and·haek.on their:feet; \Cutthroat!\· \:Sackstabbert v in · · Wlfl:be . .g!¥Jllg,:tne.ftl:~?.f. ·1 ~~···.mQltiHtlf~U~ ', :-- .. ,·- '- .. - - \- •.. So twelve years have gone and I can practice at last,.,,, Unfortunately my life is P.alf over cause th~ty has pas$,ed. , The government's figures depress me and raise fears· Cause they say the average doctor kicks offafterfifty~nineyears. So I've given my life and not just to be rich, But-to learn how to heal, to operate, to stitch. . Money's not the issue, money's nof·at stake, Cause if I put all my tuition money in stocks you know what I'd make? As for that ''Long Island Bitch'' you thought my MD had impressed, She loves me for what I am in my humanitarian quest. As for aU the professions that together make our great nation, I thank you sine~ rely and extend all my gratification. But as for FI:oyrl and Willi not a thank you win I ever say, Cause they have condemned physicians on this blustery November day. So on those sunny days when I'm off to lab and you see me 1 walk by, Instead of yelling. \Nurd! '' why not breath a thankful sigh That someone sacrificed time and the fun in life they were denying Just so they could save your life as on the ground you lay dying. So I' 11 sacrifice today for goals that lie so far So tomorrow I can save your life in some hospital's O.R. You know·~ I think it's ironic that Will and Floyd had said That I should keep in line cause without them I'd be dead. / Arts ·Replies . To the Editor of Coneordy: I was intrigued by your editorial \One Arts Prof . • . ., and hope it is th~ beg:innl.ng of a series that will tell the Biology . Department how to select its courses, the English Depart~ m.ent how to ch<OGSe its visiting , lecturers, and the, Electrical Engineering Department how \ to spend its budget. The response to that would also be intriguing. The practice of hiring out~ . siders (they are called <~ringers;') is widespread in academic theater departments, evep at coll~ges with much larger programs and student · bodies than Unicn. when a role cannot be filled in Jl play that is number of students. Plays are selected with that in mind, and the casting comes afterwards, lf plays were changed~ or drama programs ''s'l!rrendtn•ed. to extinction'' every time a i>art could not be filled by an un\' dergraduate student, ther.e would be ·very little college the~ter' in this co.untry. ·-· UnionArts is mindful that its theater program is for the benefit of Union students; as is the entire program of ~is eollege. But the Department makes the decisions about tbe content and procedures of its program, just as the Biology, English and Electrical EngintJeiing Departments. Let me also· say, however. that the Department sincerely appreciates the efforts. of Andrew Wisoff and the Student Forum to untangle the .Problem of the equipment tn Nutt Theater. We all hope that Mountebanks will rise again, so that students at Union can bave their own theater program~ which need not consider the same issues df quality afl:d educational purpose that we must ~~P before us. Your truly, Virginia L. ll,ush Chair; Un1011Arts · selected as the best to fulfill the aims of the program. In the old days, before W<llpen were ad• mitted ro Union, outsiders were brought in by l\,1(}untebanks to play female roles. In recent y~ars there have been times when a. ringer· w<Ould have been brought in• ex®pt that it was against the poliJCies of Student Activities. N. . . .. o· ·.· .. t· t· \ Sincerely, MJG·-MD2B l.J.nion College when you neect' tliem. Snre they arel Ten me alwut iM The Nott Witts needs members! Unde Nott wants you! Don't bea nit wit, be a Nott : Witt! (clever; huh!) We are a. (lyJng breed. At this time we, have,$~ eount them.~$ members;·:· This is not .enoughJ Not one· new:: face was at Tuesday•s meeting.·· Where's your school spirit?· Where's your pride? Where's · your-patriotism? Wbere's the bathroom,? (Excuse me~) I'm back!· Now back to · the matter on hand. Unfor~ tunatelv Nott Witts were pre- · empted due to a hockey game beyond o-ur control Because of · this we will not go on until next term. Now is the time to join. You can make a difference! Please come. (no! not that way, I mean tn the meetings! Jlllt Peggyl Jill!. Peggy! Jill!) t don't believe this! A party line in my letter to the editor! Anyway, if you want to be heard on radio now is the time to act. I will make this short so you can get back to what you were doing so you can make time for out. meeting. (also because I ean~t think of anything else to. sa.y. So for the last time wday I will say , JOIN THE NOTT WITTSt Angrily, · Mitchell Chess . .. Now, however,. Union Theater is net a Student.Aetivity, and we are operating WithoUt· · the w· . ~ .·· ' . ·.···h. :.····.·· ··.a··.· ... ·· ... t·· . . ·, , .. ·.· . ' P S \A. . ext t' ' ft benef~t o£ the M{luntebanks' · · · 1bank~i~g rooe mg 15 a er ·. budget. We are . following . a . , \ praeti~e <(lOttunon . in the Dear Editor, P.P.S. Nobody asked for my \tradeH whi(lh is :intended to autngrapb . and · rm: very ·· make . the best th~ater e1(~ I don't eare how· you ate tbt$ · · · Oirited Get on t4e ball perierice .. tor :}tit~ ·~reatest .. :week1·w:t'rer~are\tfie6tiident.S·$ ; \· '•' .. ~.· .. -:· .. . : .. ··: .-:. . . .. -·-·· :::.:..: ... : ... -:: .. :/~d:. ~ :.;., .... ·::_,_. '-·. : :- -:-;'.- .. :,\::~. ,::_~. '_ .. ;;.;_: ,, \ Lll An Ill\iCh 4 campu hours li brar changt maFJy: has s to ware this c1 weree by a ~ by t revea about The this te Mon ll:OOp Frid Satl!l Sun< Pre-e w'eeke 18th c 2nd. Mon above Fric Sa.tL Sun1 Jea librar redist closes Frida: hours advar ~umE studer pre ssE chant librar Alm tally \ durin! dec lin night~ Mrs. J were1 the lil Ace ref en was a asked deere need€ noted there finals more PI Th posit Prog non Prof1 who• prog sectE now Fr secrE 1977 teacl level stud: have and frorr. HE addi' will inter plan forrr. prok stud pliec Th the prog Aus1 alter Thet prog swn Eng fal11 and wint and yeat St

:OQNCO!l-DIE NSIS, November 15~ 19'1~ Library Announces Hours by SUE BLOOMBERG An issue presently under much controversy on the Union campus is the change ,in library · hours this term. While the library staff perceived the change as advantageous for ri1any reasons, the student body has shown mixed feelings towards the new hours. Due to this conflict, student attitudes were examined in greater detail by .a student survey organized by the Student Forum, revealing varying opinions about the new hours. The newly instituted hours this term are as follows: Monday- Thursday 8:30a.m.- 11:00p.m.. . Friday 8:30a.m. - 5:00p,m. Saturday 9:00a.m.-5:00p.m. Sunday Noon-ll:OOp.m. Pre-exam hours for the weekends of November 16tl!.- 18th and November 30th-Dec. 2!'ld. Monday-Thursday Same ~as above- Friday 8:30a.m.-H:OOp.m. Saturday 9: OOa.m.-11 :OOp.m. Sunday .9:00a.m.-11:00p.m. Jean Pelletiere, head librarian, views this redistribution of .-hours, which closes tbe library earlier on Fridays and provides for rrl<lre hours during exam weeks as an aqvantage to students. Numerous members of the student body previously ex- pressed a desire to make this change, influencing the library's decision. - Along with student opinion, a tally was taken of library usage during 1978-1979 and a definite decline was seen on Friday nights after 5·:00 p.m. Often, Mrs. Pelletiere points out, there were no more than two people in the library. ~ According to Loretta Walker., reference desk librarian, there was a steep decline in questions asked of this desk. A sharp decrease of reserve materials needed after 5:00p.m. was alse noted by Mrs. Hannon, head of the reserve desk. In contrast as finals approached the need for more hours -and professional , help increased enormol!sly. Due to these reasons the library staff decided to cha,nge its hours in the Fall of 1979. Objection has been widely expressed · .from the student body since the enactment of the new schedule. Because the change occurreq originally in response to students' request, the objection came as a surprise to all areas .of the library staff. Jean Pelletiere was also sur- prised at this objection because of the lack of use of library facilit\ies on Friday nights. This discrepancy in opinion lead to a survey by the Student Forum to identify student opinions. Thr: results were compiled at the November 12th meeting of the Student Forum. · Students were given two op- tions. OP,tion I wa~ for students who preferred to hai!fe the library open Friday nights from 5:00 p.m. tb 10:00 p.m. during the school year. The second option was for students who preferred the new schedule of dosing the Ubrary at 5:00 on Fridays but extending these hours near exam time. The respondents totalled 418 students of which 168 ( 40.2 percent) preferred Option I and 250 (59.8 percent) preferred Option II. It was also tabulated as a possible alternative-openingthe library 011 Saturday night in- sfead of Friday night. Of 317 students responding 260 {82 percent) preferred the library to be opened Friday night. Only 57 ( 18 percent) pref€rred the library to be open on Saturday night as an alternative. - The results of the library · survey lead to the following conclusions. Closing th~ library early on both . weekend nights opposes the idea of a quality undergr(lduate institution and gives· the impression that studyin.g isn't encouraged during weekend nights. The Forum resolved that because a substantial minority of stud·ents think the library should be. open 'on Friday nights this should be considered by the library. The conflict seems to be· over what the $tudents really prefer. The Forum feels that ·a- sub- stantial number of students want the library open every Friday night. The library, on the other hand, through its own research, has come to the conclusion that the students would benefit most from library hours in the the last weeks of the term. Because of these benefits, the library assumed this wo'uld mean a preference by students of this new schedule. The library feels that more hours should be available when more students use the library, wherea~ the Student Forum thinks the library, by principle, should he open regardless of the number ofstudents.there are on ar;y given Friday. . Jean Pelletiere Guatemala Campaign In the period 1966-1979, over 20,000 individuals have been inducted, tortured and assisinated in Guatemala. Guatemalan newspapers have daily reports on the number of bodies found throughout the co1mtry. The daily average over the past year has been reported as between six and nine. Many of the victims have been found at great distances from the place of abduction, mutilated which makes the identificatio~ process very difficult. . In June 1954, a small army of mercenaries and exiles invaded Guatemala and overthrew the Government of President Jacobo Arbenz. Thousands were. arrested under military rule and. after twelve years, peasants m several parts of the country begari to revok. Paramilitary groups began to claim Tesponsibility ·for .the increasing number of corpses discovered in Guatemala City, and the surrounding coun- tryside. These groups' are still murdering people· every day. On May 29, 1978, the \Panzos Massacre'' left 100 Kekchi Indians, including twenty-five women and children dead. The \\ Indians had come to Panzos to discuss a land dispute with Guatemalan authoritiec;. The Army opened fire when a dash betwe.en military personnel and the Indians ensured. However, Panzos villagers reported that mass graves had been dug two days before the indicent. This was only a beginning to the 200 violations of Human Rights that have not yet ended. Since the massacre, millions have been kidnapped, tortured and murdered. On July 31, 1978 General Romeo Lucas Garcia took of- fice, promising a \democratic opening\ and a government that would be open to \dialogue and negotiation.'' Instead his government has produced victims of violence. Trade unionists, campesinos, politicians, the rural criticized the government's policy of exploiting the coun- try's natural resources jn cooperation with · foreign in- vestors. Educators have sup- ported the campesinos and advised them on water and land rights. They have demonstrated against transportation in- creases and advised trade unionists. In short, they exer- cized rights and used academic resources in a manner that we take for granted in the United States~ Although. there have been repeated attempts by Inter- national Organizations to the Guatemalan government to investigate these deaths, nothing has been done. All opposition vo1ces have been silenced. On January 25, 1979., Fuentes Mohr (Finance Minister and later Minister of Foreign Affairs during the earlier Montenegro govern- ment) was killed at the wheel of his car in Guatemala City. He was expected to lead a liberal \.:!oalition in the 1982 elections. His assassination occured only hours before his party was to present its request for registration as a political party. Programs Offered Abroad population, journalists, lawyers, teachers, students and religious figures have all suf- fered. Guatemala's laws are disregarded. So too are the Ameri\can Convention on Human Rights, which the Guatemalan country has signed. According to these conventions, \every person has the right to have his life respected. This right shall be protected by law. No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his life.\ Not so in practice in Guatemala, After a tour of the United States in February 1979, Repressive violence in the rural sector of Guatemala continues to moWlt virtually unchecked. The Trade Union movement continues to suffer as its leaders and members are assassinated, kidnapped and imprisoned. The labor movements legal advisers ~uffer s~ilar fates. Qutspoken Journahsts have also been victims of death lists. There have been attacks on newspaper offices and radio stations. Student, teachers, and university administrators have all received death threats. by GALE VANORE There are two newly-defined positions in the Term Abroad Program. Professor William Thomas is taking the place of Professor William Hendricks, who resigned, as dir..ector of the program. Joan Freeman, secretary of Terms Abroad, is now Administrative Assistant. - Freeman accepted her secretarial position in thefl:\11 of 1977. Formally a French teacher at the secondary school level, she was attracted to the study of foreign countries. ''I have travelled a fair amount and I enjoy meeting people from foreign countries.;, Her nel\ position entails additional responsibilities. \I will counsel students who are interested in the program, I will plan the program, create in- formation sheets, set up the program, .and deal with students once they have ap- plied.\ The program has remained the- same. There are eight programs each year. Trips to Austria and Germany are alternated each spring term. There is a socialized medicine program in three countries £or summer term. Trips to Italy, Englandand France are offered fall term. Two programs -Spain and Colombia - alternate each winter term, but both Greece and Israel are offered every year. Students can apply at anytime. Plans are made two - terms before the trip. (For example, a fall term abroad is applied for in the winter.) There are language pre- requisites for some programs. ''A certain language proficiency is needed,\ .said Freeman. Students studying · socjalized medicine must take a survey of American Health facilities. Those going to Greece must take Greek Art and Ar.chaeoleg.¥- (Classics 24). There are no prerequisites for those going to England. -rn addition, students must have a grade point average of at least 2.0. \In the case of an over abundance in applications, students are selected according to their class year,\ stated Freeman. A Union College faculty member accompanies each group. He or she teaches one of the three courses there. • 'The other courses are taught by local professors affiliated with the various programs,\ stated Freeman. \They are from the local universities.\ In most cases, students live with families. In the Greek and soctalized medicine programs they live in student quarters: \The eost is comparable to the cost of sta~ing on campus, with the exception of airfare. Also, all scholarships apply to the program,\ said Freeman. . \Since I have been here, the vtbes from incoming students · have been absolutely terrific. There are no negative feelings; they are always euphoric with the new knowledge of a dif- ferent culture,\ concluded Freeman. Cafe Hillel - Prepare yourself for Cafe- Hillel! This Saturday night, Nov. 17 at 8:00 in the Cabaret Room, JSO -Hillel will present an Israeli night club. It promises to be an evening of exquisite entertainment, and wilHeature \Lee and Renea\; This young, dynamic folk duo will have you singing along and dancing in the aisles as they perform your favorite Hebrew and American songs. Refreshments are included with the evening: Fresh vegetables with a Middle !<:astern dip will provide a taste of Israel You can enjoy the performances over a carafe of red'wine, white wine, or punch . , .. So get your Saturday evening off' to a great start at Cafe- Hillel. Admission is only $1.00 for an enjoyable night-dub with a distinct Israeli flavor. Don't t;niss it!! · President Garcia-Compared the violence With an \allergy\ that the \Guatemalan people must learn to live with.\ In October 1978, a group called the Secret Anti- Communist Party (ESA) published a.list of 38 people; a bulletin accompanying the list stated that those named had been \tried and sentenced to death.\ Oliverio Castaneda de Leon, president of the University Students Association was one of the 38 on the list. Two days later, he was murdered. The ESA published two more lists: several of these names have disappeared or have been murdered by 'unknown assailants'. The persecution of the academic community has continued. Only seventeen days after Castaneda was killed, his successor, law sutdent Antonio · Ciani; was kidnapped from his home by plainclothes police, and despite massive public protests and the writs of habeas corpus which friends and family filed on \.is behalf, he is still missing. · Other students and faculty memb~rs have died during the year m murders sometimes directly claimed. by the ESA, sometimes the work of 'unknown assailants.' Academics have traditionally been a moderating force and the voice of the people. In the last year, they have openly Human Rights violations in Guatemal;:J have. become an everyday ·source of fear among the people. In the interest of human rights, the freedom of education and the freedom of expres~ion in Guatemala, in- ternatwnal concern and corresponding action is warranted. . The. Amnesty Intemational Chapter at Union College had decided, in order to help alleviate the inhumane and unjustified treatment of these Guatemalan people to present our concerns through a campus petition addressed , to the Guatemalan government. The petition will be held in Carnegie Hall on Thursday, November 15 from 11:00 to 4:30. In addition, a copy of t.he petition will be placed at the service desk in Schaeffer Library until Monday, November 19. Note: This article was compiled with information in \Death or Exile, the fate of those who fight for Justice in Guatemala\ published by Amnesty International, 1979.

CONCORDIENSIS) November 15) 1979 Page 3 Library Announces Hours by SUE BLOOMBERG An issue presently under much controversy on the Union campas is the change in library hours this term. While the library staff perceived th.e change as advantageous for many reasons, the student body has shown mixed feelings towards the new hours. Due to this conflict, student attitudes were examined in greater detail by a student survey organized by the Student Forum, revealing varying opinions about the new hours. The newly instituted hours this term are as follows: MoRday- Thursday 8:30a.m.- 11:00p.m. Friday 8:30a.m. -5:00p.m. Saturday 9:00a.m.-5:00p.m. Sunday Noon-ll:OOp.m. Pre-exam hours fo·r the w'eekends of November 16th- 18th and November 30th-Dec. 2nd. MoNday- Thursday Same as above Friday 8:30a.m.-11:00p.m. Saturday 9:00a.m.-11:00p.m. Sunday 9:.00a.m.-11:00p.m. Jean Pelletiere, head librarian, views this redistribution of hours, which doses the library earlier on Fridays and provides for more hours during exam weeks as an advantage to students. ~umerous members of the student body previously ex- pressed a desire to make this change, influencing the librarv's decision. Along with student opinion, a tally was taken of library usage during 1978-1979 and a definite decline was seen on Friday nights after 5:00 p.m. Often, Mrs. Pelletiere points out, there were no more than two people in the librarv. · According to Loretta Walker, reference desk librarian, there was a steep decline in questions. asked of this desk. A sharp decrease of reserve materials needed after 5:00 p.m. was also noted by Mrs. Hannon, head of the reserve desk. In contrast as finals approached the need for more hours and professional help increased en0rmously. Due to these reasons the library sta.ff decided to change its hours in the Fall of 1979. Objection has been widely expressed from the student body since the enactment of the new schedule. Because the change occurred originally in response to students' request, the objection came as a surprise to all areas of the library staff. Jean Pelletiere was also sur- prised at this objection because of the lack of ase of library facilities on Friday nights. This discrepar:~cy in opinion lead to a survey by the Student Forum to identify student opinions. The results \'.ere compiled at the November 12th meeting of the Student Forum. Students were given t wD op- tions. Option I was for students who preferred to have the library open Friday nights from 5:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. during the school year. The second option was for students who preferred the new schedule of closing the Hbrary at 5:00 on Fridays but extending these hours near exam time. The respondents totalled 418 students of which 168 140.2 percent J preferred Option I and 250 I 59.8 percent J preferred Option II. It was also tabulated as a possible alternative opening the library on Saturday night in- stead of Friday night. Of 317 students responding 260 r 82 percent) preferred the library to be opened Friday night. Only 57 r 18 percent J preferred the library to be open on SatuPday night as an alternative. The results of the library survey lead to the following conclusions. Closing the library early on both weekend nights opposes the idea of a quality undergraduate institution and gives the impression that studying isn't encouraged during weekend nights. The Forum resolved that because a substantial minoritv of students think the library should be open on Friday nights this should be considered bv the librarv. The conflict seems to be over what the students really prefer. The Forum feels that a- sub- stantial number of students want the library open every Friday night. The library, on the other hand, through its own research, has come to the conclusion that the students would benefit most from library hours in the the last weeks of the term. Because of these benefits, the library assumed this would mean a preference by students of this new schedule. The library feels that more hours should be available when more students use the library, whereaf' the Student Forum thmks the library, by principle, should be open regardless of the number of students there are on any given Friday. \' a. Jean Pelletiere Guatemala Campaign In the period 1966-1979. over 20,000 individuals have been inducted, tortured and assisinated in Guatemala. Guatemalan newspapers have daily reports on the number of bodies found throughout the conntry. The daily average over the past year has been reported as between six and nine. Many of the victims have been found at great distances from the place of abduction, mutilated, which makes the identification process very difficult. In June 1954, a small army of mercenaries and exiles invaded Guatemala and overthrew the Government of President Jacobo Arbenz. Thousands were arrested under militarv rule and after twelve years, peasants in several parts of the country began to revolt. Paramilitary groups began to claim responsibility for the increasing number of corpses discovered in Guatemala City, and the surrounding coun- tryside. These groups are still murdering people every day. On May 29, 1978, the \Panzos Massacre\ left 100 Kekchi Indians, including twenty-five women and children dead. The Indians had come to Panzos to discuss a land dispute with Guatemalan authoritieo;. The Army opened fire when a clash between military personnel and the Indians ensured. However, Panzos villagers reported that mass graves had been dug two days before the indicent. This was only a beginning to the 200 dolations of Human Rights that have not yet ended. Since the massacre, millions have been kidnapped, tortured and murdered. On July 31, 1978 General Romeo Lucas Garcia took of- fice, promising a \democratic opening\ and a government that would be open to \dialogue and negotiation.\ Instead his government has produced victims of violence. Trade unionists, campesinos, politicians, the rural criticized the government's policy of exploiting the coun- trv's naturai resources jn cooperation with foreign in- vestors. Educators have sup- ported the campesinos and advised them on water and land rights. They have demonstrated against transportation in- creases and advised trade unionists. In short, they exer- cized rights and used academic resources in a manner that we take for granted in the United States-. Although there have been repeated attempts by Inter- national Organizations to the Guatemalan government to investigate these deaths, nothing has been done. All opposition vo1ces have been silenced. On January 25, 1979, Fuentes Mohr (Finance Minister and later Minister of Foreign Affairs during the earlier Montenegro govern- ment l was killed at the wheel of his car in Guatemala City. He was expected to lead a liberal -::oalition in the 1982 elections. His assassination occured only nours before his party was to present its request for registration as a political party. Programs Oflered Abroad population. journalists, lawvers, teachers. students and religious figures have all suf- fered. Guatemala's laws are disregarded. So too are the American Convention on Human Rights, which the Guatemalan country has signed. According to these conventions, \every person has the right to have his life respected. This right shall be protected by law. No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his life.\ Not so in practice in Guatemala. After a tour of the United States in February 1979, President Garcia compared the violence w1th an \allergy\ that the \Guatemalan people must learn to live with.\ Repressive violence in the rural sectDr of Guatemala continues to mount virtually unchecked. T'ile Trade Union movement continues to suffer as its leaders and members are assassinated, kidnapped and imprisoned. The labor movements legal advisers suffer similar fates. Outspoken journalists have also been victims of death lists. There have been attacks on newspaper offices and radio stations. Student, teachers, and university administrators have all received death threats. by GALE VAN ORE There are two newly-defined positions in the Term Abroad Program. Professor William Tr. omas is taking the place of Professor William Hendricks, who resigned, as director of the program. Joan Freeman, secretary of Terms Abroad, is now Administrative Assistant. Freeman accepted her secretarial position in the fall of 1977. Formally a French teacher at the secondary school level, she was attracted to the study of foreign countries. \I have travelled a fair amount and I enjoy meeting people from foreign countries.\ Her ne~ position entails additional responsibilities. \I will counsel students who are interested in the program, I will plan the program, create in- formation sheets, set up the program, and deal with students once they have ap- plied.\ The program has remained the same. There are eight programs each year. Trips to Austria and Germany are alternated each spring term. There is a socialized medicine program in three countries for summer term. Trips to Italy, England and France are offered fall term. Two programs - Spain and Colombia - alternate each winter term, but both Greece and Israel are offered every year. Students can apply at anytime. Plans are made two terms before the trip. (For example, a fall term abroad is applied for in the winter. l There are language pre- requisites for some programs. ··A certain language proficiency is needed,\ said Freeman. Students studying socialized medicine must take a survey of American Health facilities. Those going to Greece must take Greek Art and Archaeology. (Classics 24). There are no prerequisites for those going to England. In addition, students must have a grade point average of at least 2.0. \In the case of an over abundance in applications, students are selected according to their class year,\ stated Freeman. A Union College facultv member accompanies each group. He or she teaches one of the three courses there. \The other courses are taught by local professors affiliated with the various programs.\ stated Freeman. \They are from the local universities.\ In most cases, students live with families. In the Greek and sociali~ed .medicine programs, they hve m student quarters. \The eost is comparable to the cost of staying on campus, with the exception of airfare. Also, all schDlarships apply to the program,\ said Freeman. \Since I have been here the vibes from incoming students have been absolutely terrific. There are no negative feelings; they are always euphoric with the new knowledge of a dif- ferent culture,'' concluded Freeman. Cafe Hillel Prepare yourself for Cafe- Hillel! This Saturday night, Nov. 17 at 8:00 in the Cabaret Room, JSO -Hillel will present an Israeli night club. It promises to be an evening of exquisite entertainment, and will-feature \Lee and Renea\. This young, dynamic folk duo will have you singing along and dancing in the aisles as they perform your favorite Hebrew and American songs. Refreshments are included with the evening. Fresh vegetables with a Middle F.astern dip will provide a taste of Israel. You can enjoy the performances over a carafe of red win£>, white wine, or punch. .. So get your Saturdav evening off to a great start -at Cafe- Hillel. Admission is only $1.00 for an enjoyable night club with a distinct Israeli flavor. Don't miss it!! In October 1978, a group called the Secret Anti· Communist Party ( ESA) published a list of 38 people; a bulletin accompanying the list stated that those named had been \tried and sentenced to death.\ Oliverio Castaneda de Leon, president of the University Students Association was one of the 38 on the list. Two days later, he was murdered. The ESA published two mDre lists; several of these names have disappeared or have been murdered by ·unknown assailants'. The persecution of the academic community has continued. Only seventeen days after Castaneda was killed, his successor, law sutdent Antonio Ciani, was kidnapped from his home by plainclothes police, and despite massive public protests and the writs of habeas corpus which friends and family filed on i . is behalf, he is still missing. Other students and faculty members have died during the year in murders sometimes directly claimed by the ESA. sometimes the work of ·unknown assailants' Academics have traditionally been a moderating force and the voice of the people. In the last year, they have openly Human Rights violations in Guatemal~ have become an everyday source of fear among the people. In the interest of human rights, the freedom of education and the freedom of expression in Guatemala, in- ternational concern and corresponding action is warranted. The Amnesty International Chapter at Union College had decided, in order to help alleviate the inhumane and unjustified treatment of these Guatemalan people to present our concerns through a campus petition addressed . to the Guatemalan government. The petition will be held in C'.arnegil' Hall on Thursday, November 15 from 11:00 to 4:30. In addition, a copy of the petition will be placed ut the senicl' desk in Schaeffer Library until Monday, November 19. ~ote: This article was compiled with information in \Death or Exile, the fate of those who fight for Justice in Guatem::J.la\ published by Amnesty International, 1979.

Page 4 OONQORDIENSIS, Novembe1: 15, 1979 Around Campus the Winner through his-her whii:!h' · are land:based arrangements for advising. _surrounding our national health Space Money The National Space Club of Washington, D.C. will award a $2,000 scholarship for academic year 1980-1981 in memory of rocket pioneer, Dr. Robert H. Goddard. The award is given to stimulate the interest of talented students in the op- portunity to advance scientific knowledge through spa<;:e research and e:iq)loration. The Forum for the Advan- cement of Students in Science and Technology (FASST) serves in a cooperative effort with member university-college campuses as requested by the National Space Club. The 1980 Award Winner will be in- troduced to the Nation's leaders in Science, Govermnent, and Industry' at the Goddard M~morial Dinner to be held March 28, 1980. The terms of the scholarship are as follows: 1. The applicant must be a U.S; citizen, in at least the junior year of' an accredited university, and have the in- tention of pursuing un- dergraduate or graduate studies in science or engineering during the interval of the scholarship. 2. The selection for the Award is made by the Space Club Committee on Scholarsqips on the basis of the following: a. official transcript of college record; b. letters \Of recommendation from faculty; c. accomplishments demonstrating personal qualities of creativity and leadership; d. scholastic plans that would lead to future ·participation in some phase of the aerospace sciences and technology; e. personal need is con- sidered, but is not controlling. 3. Applicants should apply by letter and provide the necessary data requested in a, b, c, d, and e, above, no l~ter than JANUARY 18, 1980, directly to: Mr. James M. Murtay c-o National Space Club 1629 K Street, N.W., Suite 700 Washingtoq, D.C. 20006 Mr. Murray is Chairman of t}le Goddard Scholarship Committee. 4. Upon final completion of his-her work, the Winner shall prepare a brief reyort on a topic of his selection to be presented to the National .Space Club. I Funds awarded are paid to TYPiNG Fast & Accurate 75c a page 355-6991 LSAT • MCAT • GRE GRE PSYCH • GRE BIO GMAT • OAT • OCAT • PCAT VAT • MAT • SAT STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER· Jr~l PWpAratlun Speual1~l~ Smr c 1938 OPEN DAYS, EVENINGS. & WEEKENDS For /nformatron. Please Call or Vrs1t our Center 163 Delaware Ave. Delmar. N V 12054 (518) 439·8146 t.-=~· ~~,~ EDUCATIONAL CENTER TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 Center~ In MaJOr US CH1es & Abroad work, the Winner shall prepare prototypes of the nuclear navies Please be alert for such an- institution is one that can a brief report on a topic of l1is subs and ships, there the nouncements. probably be aided by carefully selection to be presented to the reactors are tested and the navy Course requests are due at the examining other nation's health National Space Club. crews trained. The Niskayuana , Office of the Registrar not later care services. All students who Funds awarded are paid to Knolls is the site of research than Monday, November19th. A are interested in the sociology, the Winner through his-her and development for the ten dollar ($10.00) late fee will philosophy, and economics of university or college before.the nuclear navy and has one be assessed thereafter. 1 , this field should attend this new academic year begins. The n Jclear reactor. worthwhile lecture. Winner is eligible to compete These reactors produce the p·· r,e·- -H·. '' ',e·, ' ~a. I' f. ' h. . . There will, of course, be for a second year if the cir- same deadly waste products as . . refreshments and snacks cumstances and his-her ac- commercia 1 reactors , served after the lecture and. compiishments are warranted. highlyradioactive wastes and TO 1,· ·k. . students will have the . op- 11 fuels are transported through portunity to speak with Dr. J : ,eW·e· · our area and they routinely Mauet and the faculty mem- release low level radiation into bers. the atmosphere. , S h .I n· . e s - There have been accidents at the Knolls sites, leaks of radioactive coolant, lost Thomas K. J.ewell, instructor nuclear material, and of civil engineering, has been discharges of water which have awarded the Wesley W. Horner resulted in large fish kills. A ward by the Arnetican Society At present the Knolls sites are of Civil Engineers (ASCE). ' invofved in developing the The award, presented jointly Trident Submarine, the most to Jewell and fellow engineers, destructive weapon in history. Donald D. Adrian of the The navy wants 30 subs, each University of Massachusetts, costing over two billion dollar~. and Thomas J. Nunno of the The Trident Sub is a weapon of GCA Corporation, was based on first strike capability, the policy their paper, \Methodology for is clearly one of aggression. Calibrating · Storm water Knolls operates on a nearly a Models,\ published in the June billion dollar budget and pays issue of the ''Journal of the · no taxes, making it an economic Environmental Engineering liability.~ Knolls produces no Division of ASCE.\ The awards usable goods or services and is were conferred at the recent a poor supplier of jobs. Knolls annual convention of ASCE employs about 3,250 people, if conducte.{i in Atlanta, Ga. the same amount of money was The trio of engineers devised to be invested into social ser- an improved method for vices for people such as ending calibrating stormwater models, unemployment, housing, public a development that will assist transportation, education and consulting engineers in plan- medical care, there would be ning and designing stormwater over 150,000 jobs created. systems. Jewell is a former So please join us in walking consultant for the firm Malcolm for peace and survival, for your Pirnie, Inc. of White Plains, sake and the sake of future N.Y. generations. Information from The Horner Award is made the Knolls Fact Sheet which was annually to the author or compiled .by. the Knolls Com- authors of the paper that makes munity Action Project. the most valuable contribution to the environmental engineering profession, with preference given to those who are practicin~ engineers. Fall Term Pre-registration materials for winter term 1979-80 will be available at the Office of the A-Nukes Walk ' Registrar, Room 2, by JON TITUS The Union Collegians Against Nukes in an effort to bring to the attention of the people of Schenectady and Union College students is sponsoring a knolls to knolls walk on Sunday, November 18th. This walk would start at 8:30 am at J;he main gate of the Niskayuana site of the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory, a walk of ·about twenty miles. The West Milton Knolls is the site of four nuclear reactors Administration Building, beginning Monday, November_ 12th. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the winter term, except for graduating seniors, must im- mediately ·give notice of their ' plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Potential Dece)Tiber graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of fall term, if they have not already done so. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of November 12·16. Some dE1!_artments announce special $500.00 REWARD For information leading to arrest and conviction of person who stole stereo system -Bang & Olofson 4004 turntable -Harmon & Kardon Citation 19 power amp -Nakamichi 410 pre-amp from Psi Upsilon on ·Nov. 12,. 1979 (afternoon). Please cont~ct Chris Eschenberg, Box 758, or 382-9330. .~ .... . The Pre-Health Society Pre_simts Dr. Rudolph Mauet to lecture -on ''How National Health Can Be Learned From Other Countries\. On Thursday, November 15, at 7:3~p.m. in SS112 the Pre- Health Society will present a fascinating lecture given by Dr. Rudolf Mauet dealing with the health .systems of various European countries and how they pertain to health services in the United States. This .promises to be a very intriguing lecture as Dr. Mauet is known throughout the area for his great knowledge of this subject and his dynamic speaking styl~. Dr. Mauet was a student at the University of Munster in Germany ahd following his graduation in 1939 began his residency in internal medicine and biochemi_stry. He was certified in Hamburg in 1949. In 1950 Dr. Mauet immigrated to the U.S. with his family and practiced medicine privately in the Schenectady area for the next twenty-two years. From 1972-1977 he was the chief of emergency care at Ellis Hospital. From 1977 till the present, Dr. Mauet has been associated·with primary care at Ellis Hospital. The topic of Dr. Mauet's lecture is of great relevance to. the present situation regarding the United States' health care services. - The problems . 464 State St. we deliver Care ~In The '80s Mr. Steven Anderman, the Director .of the ~ureau of Hospital Reimbursement, Office of Health Systems· Management, New York State Department of Health, will speak on \Financing Health , Care in the '80s\ on Nov. 15, 1979, at 4:00 p.m. in Rootn 207, Bailey HaH. The financing of hospitals is being considered in the Congress and in the state legislatures. Mr. Anderman will discuss the present system of hospital financing in this st~te and proposed state and federal changes for the '80s. How statutory and implementing regulations sh-ape proposed chang~s in reimbursement will also be discussed. In addition, several hospital reimbursement experiments under way in New York State will be covered. Mr. Anderman is currently enrolled as ·a Ph. D. candidate in Administrative and Engineering Systems at Union, with.ernphasis on health care. Faculty, students, and the in- terested public are invited to attend his lecture. For further information, caU the Institute of Administration. and Management at 370-6235. Schenectady 374-1888 Tickets On Sale Now Union College Department Of The Arts Presents ' ' SIX CHARACTERS IN SEARCH -oF AN AUTHOR By. Luigi Pirandello · November 15, 16, 17 . . Nott Memorial Theater Bo·x Office Open 1-5 p.m.~ - . ( Co Ne off de Jo1 an thE PI: sa re \n thl ac gr, l trJ wl po ell fol th~ to ill I kn wl ·ai1 ag be po fr< us NE th ot WI is a: H< pl: do ba hi: . ~u nu WI le1

can who of this be and~ . op- Dr. the of tate will alth 15, 207, s is the will of ing in- to nd .. OO!fOORDIENSIS, November 15, 1979 Page 5 -----A ro~u nd Ca-mp us...----- Mr. Driller and Mr. Titus decreased freedom of choice Gretchen D' Armand. others through politics. Nuclear . , Rally by IRWIN MENKEN On October 7, 1979, two Union College students were beaten by New Hampshire State Police officers. At the time of the in- eideat, Jonathan Driller and Jon Titus were taking part in an anti-nuclear demonstration at the Seabrook Nuclear Power Plant. Both Union sophomores said that they had been repeatedly . clubbed and \maced\ by police. officers. as they attempted t0 block an access road on the power plant grounds. · Mr. Dri'ller spoke of being· ''sprayed with mace\ while trying to aid a 'young woman who· had be.en injured by the police, and also having been clubbed as state police officers foll0wed the demonstrators off the power plant grounds and on to a public road. He also mentioned that he injured his knee during the scuffling, and . when he asked the officers fot aid, thev kicked him in the knee again. Mr. Titus also spoke .of being batted and dubbed by the police as he tried to retreat from the scene of fighting. Due to what they felt was the use of· excessive force by the New Hampshire State Police, the two students along with other demonstrators are writing letters to a lawyer who is planning to use them to bring a suit against the State of New Hampshire. Mr. Driller ex- plained that the demonstrators do not expect to win a court battle, but instead hope that the high cost of li!agation will , f9ursuade New Hampshire that nuclear power plants are not worth the expense of continued legal action and bad publicity. - along with several other among the diverse institutions Due to the postponement of Mr. Wood ran against three students are forming an anti- of high academic quality.\ this weekend's concert with the other contenders for the spot. nuclear group on campus. They Rutgers Queen's Chorale, the He wants to thank everyone at hope 0 be able tQ sponsor guest ·G I·· ee c I ·u b. Union Colle.ge Men's Glee Union who helped make his win lecturers and coordinate other Club's next performance will be possible. He said he had a great anti-nuclear activities at Union the Smith College \Vespers'' on dea:l of support among the College. The concert by the Union Sunday, December 2, at 4:00 Union College community. College Men's Glee Club and the p.m. and 7:30p.m. in John M. According to Mr. Wood, his G\eene Hall on the Smith new position won't interfere · $Gap Widens Students at New York in• dependent colleges and universities have faced an 8 percent tuition increase over last year. In the past six years, tuition charges at independent institutions have risen .an average of $1,178. At SUNY, the increase has been only $250 in the past seven -years. According to John Howley, director of. the Independent Student Coalition (ISC), students from moderate and low income families hit hard by tuition increases, are also af- fected by the so-called ''tuition · gap.\ This gap, representing the difference in tuition at government financed in- stitutions and independent colleges and universities, has grown 55 percent in the..past six years. The tuition difference is now an average of $2,685, yet the income level of students in each sector is approximately the same. Tuition at both SUNY and CUNY is only $900. The average independent \sector tuition is $3,585. · To offset the widening gap, the ISC will be urging legislators to expand TAP and HEOP awards and eligibility during the 1980 session. Howley riote<!., \Unless steps are taken by the Legislature to increase financial relief to students, thereby minimizing the effects of the tuitoion gap, access to higher education will diminish and students will experience Rutger's Queen's Chorale, t u · 'I' originally ·scheduled to take College campus in Nor- with his job at mon. ' t s a place this Saturday, November thampton, Massachusetts. The part-time thing. We'll formally • Smith College Glee Club is meet about once a month. Each 17, at 8:00 p.m. in the Memorial · d Ch P erhaps the finest women's legislator is also assigne to a apel of Unian College, has · 1 b chorus am .. ong Amrican few committees which w1l meet eeri postponed indefinitely. ' n The officers of the Men's Glee colleges, and it is a great• honor periodica · y.'' Club feel that the concert wi:U be for the Men's Glee Club to have Mr. Wood is looking forward rescheduled for the end of the opportunity ta sing with t1.. taking his office. Now he'll January or ~he beginning of them. ag'ain.IAs well as last have his opportunity to be in- February. Information will weekend's joint performance, volved in the Schenectady follow the beginning of the New the Union College Men's Glee government. Year. Club joined the Smith College The Union College Men's Glee Glee Club last y'ear at about this Club die perform, however, this time in a performance of J.S. Bach's ·'The Magnificat,\ with past weekend on Sunday-, November 11, at 2:30p.m. with Iva Dee Hiatt conducting. J the Smith College Glee Club wo'.o. d from Northampton., . Massachusetts. The Union College Men's Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Hugh W·· . . .'1 n 5 Allen Wilson, performed two . Schubert pieces, \Trinklied with baritone soloist Ronald A. Scaccia '-81, and \Die Nacht.\ The group then sang the Traditional \Loch Lohmond,\ with tenor soloist Robert H. Imrie '80, Eric Thiman's \She is my slender small love,\ and Adriano Banchieri's ''Inter- media do Solfanari.\ The Smith College ·Glee Club, under the direct.ion of G. Roberts Kolb and the ac- companiment of Anne Tripp !Smith '80), sang Guillaume de , Bouzignac: \Tota pulchra es;\ Samuel Scheidt: ''Everything That Hath Breath;\ Aaron Copland: \The House on the Hill;\ and Norman Dello Joie: \A Jubilant Song,\ with • soprano soloist Susan . Storey '80. by LYNN GRE{':NBEHG When Mr. Cliff Wood, Union College's Head of Security and Safety, leaves Stoller Hall eaeh day, he wiU still have another job. Mr. Wood has just been elected to the Schenectady County Board of Represen- tatives. Mr. Wood will be representing 39 districts within the city of Schenectady. He takes office on January 1, 1980 for his four year term. The county board he is on consists of fifteen legislators. According to· Mr. Wood, their job is to · ·overse..e a 59 million dollar county budget and determine how the money is distributed. The money goes to county welfare,-nursing homes, libraries, -basically everything having to do with the county of Schenectadr.\ · Board Built by ANDREW WISOFF Late last Friday afternoon, six members from the national service fraternity, Alpha Phi Omega, constructed and in- stalled the new display board in front of Carnegie Hall. The project was conducted as a free service to the Union College community. - According to members from the RPI chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, as they were pouring the cement and putting the final touches on the board, the project was conducted as part of a campaign to stimulate interest in the service fraternity and perhaps recharter the Union chapter which was deactivated in 1965. Alpha Phi Omega is the largest national fraternity in the country with over 550 active chapters. APO was founded in 1925, and has been active at RPI since 1947. Since 1965, there have been three attempts to reactivate Union's chapter. In 1975, the fraternity went co-ed. My Fellow Americans!! After the intermission, the two glee clubs, under the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson and with orchestral. ac- companiment~ performed Ottorino Respighi's ''Laud to the Nativity.\ The Angel was sung by soprano Corine Salon, the Shepherd by tenor Rand Reeves; and Mary by soprano When asked why he ran for the office, Mr. Wood leaned back in his chair and said with a grin. ''I've always loved politics!'' After thirty years as a police lieutenant, Mr. Wood wanted to continue helping Presently, there is a strong need at Union for students to work together as dedicated individuals towards the benefit of the College community. This is the spirit in which the Continued on page 7 Are you tired of high prices, inflation, the energy crunch; and our country's worldwide reputation • as Uncle Softie? Well, we can't do anything about th_at, but we can type your papers accurate!\Y and w1th personal consideration. Near Campus Reasonable Rates Catl 370-1442 , .. ---.AREA CALENDAR-. ~ ...... LECTURE November 20--TUESDAY TOPICS presents \Career Change, and Mid-Life Decisions\ with Arthur Hit- chcock of The University at Albany's School of Education. The lecture will take place in the Auditorium, New York State Museum, Empire State Plaza at 12:15 p.m. November 25--Dr. Sarah Blancher Cohen will discuss Jewish Women as po'rtrayed by Jewish women writers in Sunday's Jewish-American Literature· Lecture ' Series program at 1 :30p.m. at the New York State M usewn, Empire State Plaza, Albany. For fur- ther information call 474-5842. -• November-25-Tillie Olsen and Grace Paley will present lec- tures on \Tell Me a Riddle\ from Tell Me a Riddle and Other Stores and \Goodbye and Good Luck\ from The Little Disturbances of M.en. The stories are about Jewish women writers and will be presented in The Auditorium of the State Musewn at 1:30 p.m. For fur- ther information call 472-6695 or 457-4635. Pj\RADE November 23-The Downtown Schenectad¥ Association has announced expanded par- ticipation in the annual \.. . Christmas Parade, making the 1979 event the largest and most successful in recent years. The parade will be held at 7 p.m., beginning at Hulett and State • Streets and marching to the Schenectady County Com- munity College on Washington Avenue. There is still time to register to participate in the parade by contacting Eleanor J .. McGrath at the Schenectady County Chamber of Commerce, 243 State Street, Schenectady. THEATRE Navember 27-The Chamber Repertory Theater will present \Tell Tale Poe\ at the Junior College of Albany's Theatre at 8 · p.m. For further information call 270-2344 or 270-2246. MUSIC November 21-Enjoy an ex- citing folk duo from Vermont, Berger and Reagan, .who have a thrilling repertoire of traditional and contemporary mus~c with original and unique musical arrangements. Berger and Reagan will be appearing at the Caf·e Lena, 45 Phila. Street, Saratoga Springs. ·For further information, call 584- 9789. . November 23-2·5-Celebrate the Thanksgiving weekend with THE GOLDEN VOICE OF THE GREATSOUTHWEST, U. utah Phillip~. Utah's 4;_iend and travellmg companion Fred Holstein from Chicago will be sharing part of the program with him. The show will be appearing at the Cafe,Lena, 45 Phila St., Saratoga Springs. For further information, call 584- 9789. November 24-Harry Chapin will be appearing at the Coliseum Theater in Latham, N.Y. for one show at 7:30p.m. For further. information call 785-3393. . November 25--The world premiere performances of a new chamber work by Albany area composer Leonard Kastle is slated for 4 p.m. Sunday, when the Capitol Chamber Artists will present the Song Cycle \The Shropshire Lad,\ at the N.Y. State Museum, Empire State Plaza, Albany. For more information, contact Jim Sefcik 474-5842. November 26--Mark Adler and Rolland Merrill will present a duo percussion-senior recital at 8 p.m. The recital will be held at the SUNY at Albany Per- forming Arts Center. For further information, call 457- 8606. November 26--Syntagma Musicum will present \vocal and instrumental chamber music of the Renaissance.;, The show will be held at 8 p.m. in Union, College Memoria:.. Chapel.

-- '· Page ·s CONOORDIENSIS, November 15 1 19\19 I-\ arttT ultUre • Blondie Eats To The Beat Jefferson Starship Concert At R.P.l. Jefferson Starship will be appearing at the RPI .. by Robert Blake Eat to the Beat is the latest a.bum from Blondie, one of the first New York new wave bands to have had \vide-spread commercial success, and the first to have a number one single. This success, however, is a newfound on.e based largely on the highly commercial Parallel 'Lines and. tl1e out of character disco single \Heart of Glass.\ Thus with a larger audience than ever before, Blondie has released Eat to the Beat for the pubHc to sink its teeth into. First off, Eat to the Beat is not an instant replay of Parallel Lines, in an attempt to simply build up· their commercial sales. Eat to the Beat is an extremely eclectic albwn with the songs covering a wide variety of styles. On the whole Eat to the Beat is a far mellower album than Parallel Lines with as many soft tunes as , there are upbeat rockers. In a way it could be said that Eat to the Beat is an album that represents a comme.rcial compromise. While there are a few tunes that are very similar to those on Parallel Lines, such as thesingle \Dreaming\, I feel these are used to sell tne album in order to expose. some di.f. ferentsides.of Blondie that have not been seelh before. The album reveais that Blondie has many sides indeed. Some of the songs here such as \Union City Blue\ and \Slow Motion\ are highly stylized 50's- tunes continuing in a direction that Blondie has previously explored. In newer directions \Shayla\ reveals a hint of so_cial protest in the band; \Sound-A-Sleep\ shows the band can produce a lovely spacey sound; the title tune and the album's reggae. tune- ''Die Young Stay Pretty\ shows the band maintcfins a sense of humor; some songs·- such as \Victor\ are just outright strange, while \Living in the Real World\ shows the band in a more personal mood reflec- ting their feelings towards their newfound success. It should be noted for those who don't know;that Elondie is a corporate effort of composers and players, and not simply the bacldng band for their . lead singer. Deborah Harry who is the mainstay of their public irnage. It Is then to the band's credit that with five out of six of the band's members con- tributing to the composing, that they have been able to release such a. consistantly fine album as ,thi.s one proves to be. It is also especially to this band's credit that in an era of popular culture where an initial com- mercial success leads to repeats, immitations, and God- -awful boring sequels that squan«;ler an artist's creative potential, that Blondie has chosen to u~e their commercial success to create and. explore new areas a.pd ideas to give to their audience, while also providing a few co~ercial tunes to satisfy the crowds and to keep the band happily em- ployed. In this way Blondie continues to be a growing creative unit in the face of collll1lercial success, which is what I feel any group. should do it they wish to be considered to haye any sort of artistic license· to their credit. Fieldhouse in Troy on Sunday,- November 18 at 8:00 p.m. Tickets will go on sale Thur- sday, November 1, at all Ticketron outlets for $8.50 each. The \New\ Jefferson Star- ship is a modification of the Jefferson Starship which was started by three members of Jefferson Airplane. There is a new drummer named Aynsley Dunbar, who- has played for fifteen years with many people including John Mayall, Frank Zappa, and most recently, Journey. Mickey Thomas, the new vocalist, is probably best known for working with Elvin Bishop (\Fooled Around and Fell in Love\). Paul Kantner is the only musician who remains of the three that originated The Starship. He plays rhythm guitar and sings vocals. Other members who will continue to perform with the group are Craig Chaquico who plays rhythm guitar and sings vocals, and- David Freiberg and Pete Sears who share the bass, keyboard and vocals. J-efferson Starship is already known for its albums Blows Against the Empire, Red Octopus, Spitfire, arid Earth. Such songs as \Miracles\, \Wooden Ships\ \With Your Love\ and ·\Play on Love\ have been very popular. Their Pirandello Finally Arrives .new album, Freedom at Point Zero should be released soon, and a new single, \Jane\, is being played on the radio. Donald Wilcock Times Record 10-26-79 The final performances of the award-winning tragi-comedy, \Six Characters in Search of an Author,\ written by Luigi Pirandello_ in 1921, will be presented by the Union College Department of the Arts at 8 p.m., . Nov. 14-17 in Nott · Memorial Theatre. Directed by Barry K. Smith, associate professor of theatre, with special assist'imce from Abstract Art At Union Gallery \The Language of Abstraction,\ a major exhibition of abstract art, has been extended through Jan. 6 at the Union Gallery, Schenectady Museum. Sponsored by the Union Gallery of Union College, with the cooperation of the Schenectady Museum, the exhibit includes works by in- ternationally recognized ar- tists. \The Language of Abstraction\ was designed to acquaint the uninitiated with the world of abstract art. The majority of the works in this exhibition belong to the Herman and Rose Burns Print Collection, donat&ti to Union by Trustee Arnold I. Burns of the class of 1950. Sculpture in the exhibit comes from the permanent collection of the Schenectady Museum. A two-page text covering the history and various aspects of abstract art will be distributed at the gallery. It was written by Florence Gilbard-Dellario, slide curator of the College's Department of the Arts. The first three paragraphs of the text offer an introduction to this unconventional and often misunderstood art form. The text begins, \For seventy years abstract art has been vital to the creation of our -visual en- vironment. Our architecture, furniture, advertising, even the _ patterns on our clothes, reflect the discoveries of the masters of the 20th century abstraction. Yet, for many people, abstract art works themselves remain confusing and inaccessible because they do not depict recognizable objects and events. When we confront an image that looks like nothing in the world, we may ask our- selves if we are too dull to find the message at all. We may turn away in dismay, wondering if we are the victims of paint- slinging charlatans. \Reactions such as these reflect the e~pectation that a work of art should be of something. We relate easily to a painting of a forest, or a sculpture of a soldier on hor- seback because these subjects are specific and familiar. However, an abstract work is not of a.thing in the world, it is a thing in the world. It is a new object, self-contained and- self- referential. It may embody an idea; emotion, or perception, but it never me_rely transcribes the world as we normally see it. \As a conseqt.Ienc·e, the viewer-of abstract art works . must approach them with a special set of questions. Does the work explore a conceptual problem or describe an emotion? How are abstract elements such as line, form and color, used to formulate the problem . or trigger our emotional response? Does the work increase our problem- solving vocabJilary or our sensitivity to the ~nvironment? The answers to sueh questions will provide a key to the language of abstraction.\ Film Committee Presents: Invasion of the Body Snatchers Friday, Nov. 16 at 10 Sat. & Sun. Nov. 17-18 at 9 & 11 Coming Tue.sday, November 27, after vacation: Vixen RATED X Leiia Blake, three-time winner plead with him to be written of Australia's Best Actress down, he steadfastly refuses to Award, Six Characters explores comply. Craving life, the the complexities of human _ characters free the:m.selves nature and conduct, and the from their creator's mind and processes of thought, art and begin their search for another life. author who will record their The.. three act play opens with story. six characters literally sear- At the rehearsal of~\Roles of ching for an author to tell the the Game,\ the six plead their story of the tragic destruction of case before the unbelieving their family. Set on an open . stage, the play begins when the director and his _actmg com- six show up_ ... during the pany. The director is. ultimately rehearsal of \Roles of the persuaded that there may be a Game,\ written by Pirandello successful play.,.in their story. in 1918. - But the director's artistic Analysing his intentions 1n the conception of the story does not uncenventional play, Piran- coincide with tl}e reality of the dellD, the 1934 winner of the stark tragedy. The conflict Nobel Prize, explained that he between the raw truth of a was trying to ''dramatize the family broken by abandonment, artistic process rather than the suicide- and prostitution and the characters' story.\ director's artistic perspective In this play within a play, the creates a ..$trange twist to the author \Could not find a notion that art reflects life. significant meaning within his own life's fantasy to support the Tickets are $2.50 and existence of the six characters available from 1 to 5 p.m. daily he had created in his head. at the Nott Memorial Box Office Although the six haunt him and and at the doo!'. DON'T MISS THE LAST SHOW OF FALl TERM THURSDAY I NOVEMBER 15 First Act: Steve Marks & Bob Wolper - Second Act: Rich Seaman & Friends MC: ·Rich Mintz Shows ar9 & ll, ' Tickets on sale 8 p.m. in Carneg.ie -·-. Cl F Al sign 20th slid{ Thm . .p.m Dep• Res lectt reve Alic' refe: port ture or vi then vie~ psyc imp1 phy! exp< as r• of a dist< attir the ·Alic pers the vie~ 01 subj ting rela and cho~ mai: non' trail sve~ and pati, trail corr und4 of d inte: sev4 terv

is 's 0 d s 0 0 a y. OONOORDIEN8IS, November 15, 1979 Page 7 culture Portr8it Painter Tc0 ·Speak ' by CYNTHIA W~TER Alice Neel, one of the most significant portrait artists of the 20th .Century, will present a slide lecture at Union College on Thursday, November 15, at 8 . p.m. sponsored by Union'~ Department of the Arts &; Art ResoJ.lrces open to women, lecture '~Collector of Souls\ reveals the very essence ·of Alice Neel's body of work. She refers to· her paintings not as portraits, but rather as \pic- tures of people.\ Her subjects, or victims as ste has referred to them, are revealed to the viewer in total, for the subject's psycnologiaalstate of mind is as important to the artist as the physical characteristics. Neel exposes the psyche of her sitter as raw truth through a number of artistic devices. The use of distortion, the sitter's pose, his attire or nudity' his· gaze, and the position of .hands, which to ·Alice Neel is a telling aspect of personality, all serve to reveal the sitter's inner psyche tq the viewer. · · reveal Alice Neel to the public, was himself revealed. In many Gases, these critics were per- suaded to pose for portrai_t_s, some of which are nude por- traits. One such paintipg, a portrait of John Perreault (1972), art critic for the Village Voice, depicts, the nude male subject in a reclining, seductive pose similar to stereotypical depictions of nude women. · Some viewers have com- mented on tl!e despair evident in Neel's pictures and have referred to her sqbjeds as anxiety\ridden and neurotic.- In revealing. what she believes to be fhe truth about life, Alice Neel h~s not sought to depict joyous subjects. She has stated that life is barbarous and that it is a wonder that anyone sur- vives. Alice Neel has ex: perienced great -sorrow in her • own life. She has been candid with interviewers in re~ealing her life story_ whieh includes: two nervous breakdowns and confinement in a..suicidal ward, tlie death of an infant daughter, and a broken marriage and s,abseQtie-nt transient lovers. Life for /Alice N eel ha~ not been, ·<;> .on the whole, a joyous ex- perience. The long hours she . has devoted to her art appear to be Alice Neel's reason for being ... In - a recent publication on women artists, she stated: \On white canvas, I was free. That was my world.\ Alice Nee! was neglected by _the art establishment until five years ago, when, at the age of 74, she had a retros9ective show at- the Whitney Museum. Throughout her career she has remained a nonconformist in the sense that her art has not followed popular trends. The portraits of Alice Neel continue. to be distinct and unique in artistic style and in subject matter. Ms. Neel's slide lecture is sponsored by A.FWW and the ·union College Art Department, and will be held in the Strauss Lounge. A deaf interpreter will sign the program for the deaf. Fu_nds for · AROW's Visiting Artist Program are provided in part by the New York State Council on the Arts and the National Endowment for the Arts. Over the past 60 years, the subjects \of. Alice Neel'.s pain- tings have been friends, relatives, other artists, critics, and oon-conformists who have chosen paths apart from the mainstream. Her . gallery of nonconformists include por- traits of homosexuals, tran. svestites, black revolutionaries, and drawings of psychotic patients. With ·all of her por- traits, one senses the artist's commitment 'to promoting understanding and acceptance of differences in people. It is interesting fo 1 note that _in several instances, an in- terviewer, whose aim 'it was to Aerobic Danci~g It's time to stop thiJ;Iking- of - exercises as hard work and a bore and make it fun. So, kick· off your shoes, put on yEtur sneakers, and sign up· for Union's first Aerobic Dancing class on Winter Term Aerobic Dancing cdmbines the-health and figure benefits of jogging with the fun and vigor of dancing. Aerobic Dancing is a series of easy-to-learn dances for non-dancers, ·a carefully • choreographed . blend of jogging, lunges, arm swings and leg kicks, set to music from disco tv couutry and western. registration day, .!an. 7 and 8, in . Alumni .Gym. Courses are of- fered on Monday. and Wed- nesday from 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. AND THE PEASANT AWOKE TO WALK AMONG HIS PEOPLE · And the peasant awoke to walk among his people . who followed in his wake and shared of the joys and prophesies wlnich he showered unto those, his faithful people, and promised of the time when all peasants would wa~ the earth enveloped by an aura of brotherhood and perpetual levity, and the day would come when i1is people might possess the ~laughter · · in their throats and the wisdom in their minds • to conquer all problems of physics in this, their universe. • • • P.L. < ·< < Rennaissance c On Monday, November 26, ' just after _returning from ·~ Thanksgiving break, Union College and the Schenectady Museum will sponsor Syntagma Musicun1 at 8 p.m. The group '• from Holland will present vocal and instrumental chamber music of the Renaissance. ._ Beniard JacobSOI)., of the < < Chicago Daily News, described • it on the occasion of its debut in • · the U.Sr as, \one of the greatest ~ performing- groups in the . <• world.\ The iv.strumental virtuosity of the if!dividuals of the group includes recorders, krummhorns, viola da gamba, sackbut, cornetto, and other- period instruments. The singers \Peasant\ < , are accomplished and versatile. .~Please submit poems to Vicky Eddy and Neil Skoln~, :e.ox 560. Tickets ·are free ·for Union ~ • students. For more information • · • contact Mrs. Hamilton in the ~.:..>-<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H\!H ..... ~~~~~\'~ ..... ~..;;.&--\&-. Arts Department. The Union College Concert Committee Presents - I C-ol~y SnO aod the BlUe Gra.ss Sam·urai Dutch Hollow Pub Saturday No~ember 17 FREE 10 p.m ... 2 a.m. FREE . Mitch's Maze Glee Club· With Smith by DAN BOOTH Sunday afternoon the Union College r len's Glee Club joined Smith College's Glee Club in a performance in Memorial Chapel. It was a varied per- formance, with many zeniths, but, unfortunately, some confusing moments. The men's glee club began the performance with \Trinklied\ directed by Matthew Lubart ·and accompanied by Professor Hugb Wilson, the director of the gro.up on piano .. Professor Wilson's playing was of course excellent and Matthew Lubart directing showed forethought and concentration. · My personal fayorite of the performance was \Loch Loh- mond,\ ·a solo sung by Rob Imrie, whose well known voice rang clear and true. \Loch Loh- mond'' is one of my favorite ballads, and Rob's voice has a particular resonance which gives a unique flavor to English- Scottish ballads and folk songs. After a varied selection, well done on the scale expected of such a f~ne group, Smith College took the stage. To be quite blunt, I found it lacking in style and dash of the former group . One song I found particularly offensive, ''Everything that -Hath Breath.\ The song began with ·recorded (! ! ! ) music Board ••• members of the Alpha Pb1 Omega wish to develop by promoting th!L rechartering of Union's chapter. Under- classmen and un- derclasswomen are especially encouraged to seek more in- formation about the service fraternity. Bentlines: Before and ... Laught~r by S. Monosson There are some days ••. And there are others •.• Virginia Woolf The Marx Brothers which, from the unusual sounds coming from the recorder, was apparently supposed to be the music of the heavens. Tinkling noises appeared from nowhere, and wind rushed and swirled around the voices of the Smith College Glee Club. Unfor- tunately, it did not quite come together. . But compare this with the second half of the program which utilized a live orchestra on stage with woodwinds and percussion. With Hugh Wilson dir~ct!ng, the masterpiece filled the hall. The piece was entitled ''Laud to Nativity,\ and the soloists were Corine Salon, soprano, as the Angel; Gret- chen Darrnand, soprano, as Mary; and fl.and Reeves, tenor, as the Shepherd. After the program they were presented with gifts for their excellent performance. Special note should be made, I think, to the Smith College Glee Coub as well. Although I did not par- ticularly like one piece, on the whole their performance was excellent, and their soloist, Susan Storey, sang extremely well. The pianist, Anne Tripp, played for all she was worth. My personal feeling is that it was a most enjoyable af- ternoon, and forthcoming performances should not be missed. Continued from page 5 For more information, students should call or write Beth Canuteson at RPI. Her phone number is 270-6516, and her address is 304 Warren Hall, RPI, Tory, New York. Beth is the member of the RPI chapter in charge of the campaign to recharter APO at Union. The President of Alpha Phi Omega at RPI is Larry Mandelkehu, who can be reached at 272-8391. L.S.F.I.N ••• ROCK ••• DANCE ••• PARTY ••• FRIDAY ••• DELTA CHll

Page 8 BULLETIN BOARD Correction: Psychology 37,- Psychology through Literature, will not be given during the Winter term. It will be replaced , by Psychology 36, Seminar in Animal Learning with Professor Markiewicz at 9:30 a.m. in Psychology 204. This is a one time offering. Corrections for the Final Examination Schedule. in the last issue of the Concordiensis : Tuesday, December 4--2-4 p.m.-Psychology 62-Practi- cum in Human- Relations I- Girdner-PY 102 Wednesday, December 5-9-11 a.m.-English 125-lntroduction to Shakespeare-M. Ouellette- HU 115 Please add: Wednesday, December 5--2-4 p.m.-- Accounting tO--Financial Accounting-Mercer-BH 203 Spl'ing Term in Vienna: If you wish to study abroad with Union· this spring, and if you have not yet made application for the spring Term in Vienna, please do so immediately. Prerequisite 1 for the \lower track\ in Vienna is German 11, and for the \upper track,\ German 133, both of which are offered on campus during the winter term. For more information, see Professor Warde, Professor Kellenter, or inquire at the Terms Abroad office in Humanities 211. All members of the Union College community who would like additional copies of the Student Handbook may pick them up in the Student Affairs . Office located on the second level of Carnegie Hall. Typing in my own home. Muriel Monaco, 2097 Foster Ave., 374-7031. - There will be an organizational ~eeting for anyone interested m becoming involved in volunteer work on or off campus, Nov. 15, 7 p.:q1. in Carnegie Conference Room. Puppi('c; for Christmas. Five unexpected events in the Huntley household. Mother a golden retriever, paternity a little uncertain. Free to good off-campus homes. Call 374- 1495. Committee for Senjor Flmg · see Mrs. Marra. Come to a rock and roll dance party at 10 p.m. on Friday, November 16 at the Delta Chi House (Corner of Lenox and Nott Streets). The party is being sponsored by LA SOCIETE F.I.N., an independently run student organization, whose purpose is to let the college community in on what's coming in the next decade. PLACEMENT The National WQmen's Political Caucus--in Washington, D.C., offers in- ternships for undergraduates. The NWPC is dedicated to in- creasing the number of women in Government and organizing them.as a political force. .Carnegie Endowment for International Peace--offers internships to graduating seniors. The program provides an opportunity for students who have an interest in foreign policy. Application Deadline: February 1, 1980. · The Lisle Fellowship-- announces -the International Education Program to work and study in Cuba, India, Colombia, Alaska, and OONOORDIENSIS 1 November 15, 1979 classifi~l)s England. Smith College Summer Intern-Teaching Program-- offers an opportunity to prepare for a career in elementary or secondary school teaching. Engineering, Kesearch and ' Development, Test -· and Evaluation. Positions located nationwide (greatest number on .. East and West coasts-). to seven months old. Lost around Gillespie St. area but reported sightings ·on campus. Please caB 372-6168 if you· have any information. Thank you. ' l ·FOR SAtE Advertising Women of New York, Inc.--offers the 23rd Annual College Career Con- ferenceon Saturday, December 1, 1979 at Pace University. ROOMS FOUND: Multi .. purpose pocket camping knife. CaH Steve, 6451,. to claim. Found 11- 7. 1976 MGB. 32,000 miles, good condition, w-radial, snows. For further information contact Yungwha Min at PCR. National Steel .. Corporation (Weirton Steel Division)-We have a sign up sheet in · Placement for National Steel Corporation. They are in- terested in E.E.'s and M.E.'s for Maintenance Supervision and Production Supervision. Jobs in Weirton, West Va.; Detroit, Mich; Portage, Indiana; St. Louis, Missouri. Naval Civilian Personnel Command-We have a sign up sheet in Placement for Naval CivHiam Personnel Command. They are seeking BS-MS EE's and ME's for Project Engineering, Program Ma'nagement, Lo.g!stics Room in North College faculty home, second and third terms. Available to one or two . , men in return for help about the - house. Call Mrs. Huntley, 371- 1495. I am looking for a roon1 or an apartment needed winter and spring terms, for one male. Anyone who knows _of something available, please contact Karen at 370-6463. · Female needs a room for winter and-or spring term-~off· campus. Please call 377-2694. LOST & FOUND LOST: Female, calico cat. Six · $3,400. 393-5547. After_!) p.m. ,. D·UTCH HOLLOW ·PIZZA The individuaJ who ord~rs the .most pizza Monday, 11/19/79 w HI receive 1 free case· of ·Molson/s Golden Ale. NAVY OFFICER. . YOU GET RESPONSIBILITY THE MOMENT • YOU GET THE STRIPES. , - .. -- -· A lot of big corporations offer you a big title. But how many offer a young college graduate a really important job? As a Navy Officer, you don't have to wait to do a job that counts. We give you one as soon as you've earned your commission. A job with responsibility for the lives of others, and for millions of dollars of complex equipment. A job that requires skillandleadership.AjobthatNavyOfficers have been doing proudly for 200 years. - If that's the kind of job you're looking for, speak to a Navy recruiter. Y ou'U find that Navy Officers have unequalled opportunities iri field~ like Nuclear Power, Aviation, and Engineering. Or call toll fr~ 800-841-8000. (In Georgia, toll free &00-342-5855.) Early responsibility. It's what being a Navy Officer is all about. r-;A~~~RTUNITY --...-----::::-1 INFORMATION CENTER I P.O. Box 2000, Pelham Manor, N.Y. 10803 0 Send me information on Career Opportunities in the Navy (¢G): .. 0 Call me at·---,--=- <Area C'.ode) NAME'---=~-~~-=~-~~--- First (Please P.rint} · Last ADDREss, ________________ ~-- CITY _____ STATE, ___ ZIP'-. ___ _ DATE OF:=::-,_ ___ _ Birth ieollege Graduation I I I ·I I I I I I tUniversity ·- . •GP / I· L~::- -----------~.J ·NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. • - 01 k Unh on I' en de Fl

OONOORDIENSIS, Novemb((r 15, 1979 c'Lassifiebs OBITUARY· Irwin, beloved Anole of 1065 Univer;;;ity P1ace, died suddenly on November 13, 1979. He was endeared and beloved by all who knew him and his passing · leaves a void in all our lives. He is survived by hiw owner in . absentia, J.C. Gorman, Drew, Bave, Ted. Interment ... will be Saturday, November 17, at the horne of the deceased. C::ome consider~ new wave of .life AT THE ROCK AND ROLL DANC.E PARTY FRIDAY NOV. 16 ·10 P.M. Ill' Sponsore.d by La Societe' F.I.N. at the Delta Chi House* (.Corner of' lenox & Nett) *Not a Delta Chi Function . ' . PERSONALS Happy Birthday, B.S. ! T.G.-I'll try again. Squeeze that peasant! \\ Paulsky-Heliuva job on the toHet. Thanks alot! E.G.-You deserve lobster, but I can only give you tunafish. How's Sunday? G- Michael G--Waiting and hoping-Me G-I never knew researching c·ould be so much fun-Bert Karen H. and Amy z . ..-Happy Birthday fll-15-79)-Jon G. C. and S.--Would you like some Giggle Noodle Soup? Seth--Where'd you learn to tap dance? Seth-•You really put your money where your mouth is. Poor, Little Terrence,-! don't feel sorry for you! \Don't think you've seen ~he' last of me.\ (Remember?)' · Joe L.-I've never known a real live athletic supporter before! -Ruthi friend Danny M.-Keep your hands off my sister! ! ! Jeff C.~keep your hands off my sister! ! ! G.E.T.-l knew you would do welL I'm proud of you. Love your G.O.S. The golf cours??? ~L_----~--------~~ Three and 1 z??? ~ Happ•y Birthday Maria-- Ellens · Please stop pulling F:YREL drills~: Steve. WE· could have BUR;-; ED Elmer. :\;o more: anymore! ! : Son, hope your knee gets better, cheer-up-love Mom J. R.-I bet all vou want is computer help.: · J.W.P.-You run around and run around until you're all . , 'FREE . CAREERMAP ~-----~---------------------------------1 I •• I\ I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Please fill out the coupon and mail to: Frank LeRoy, College Relations Coordinator General Dynamics P.O. Box 2507. Pomona, CA 91766 ~arne ___ _ Address __ City_ Major_. State __ --·--·-·Zip Date of ~raduation _________ _ GENERAL DYNAMICS Pomona Division Equal Opportu_nity Employer M/F U.S. Citizenship-Required. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I . I ·-----------~---------~-----------------· Page 9 pooped out! -B.M.P. (BobJ-How's Charlie Brown and Snoopy? Did you do it? Geoff--Glad you stopped by, you were just in time with dessert.- Peace. Diane J.W.P.--Here's the second personal I owe you. Sorry about the punch Hne, I told you it was dumb. Group 23--Happy Thanksgiving (Even If your,not kids!.) Lerony. Go to Skidmore Peggy, You're Hyper Ron, Thats six times I've seen you clean your shoes, wasn't once enough Sex and caps and rock and 1oll that's all we ever knew-2nd Floor West Wing Has anyone seen a maroon coat? How 'bout maroon shoes? Sorrv·. what about suede shoes?· :.; ew socks, too? ! Does that mean you're not holy now, either?-Third Floor Smith Can I borrow a calculator for ahile? Beth, AHhhhhhhhhhhhh! ! ! ! - A Beth, AHhhhhhh-hhhhhh ( faintl! !-A Beth, Faint, Faint, Faint!! -A Oh, so that's her, -A Alan, are you still alive? Alan time is running out, Have you burned all of the concordys yet? B.B., How's my 6-pac of Molsens doing?- Tom Easton' a personal (your not forgotten)-Dan Boop-sorry I've been out of print on so many anniversaries- -well happy 14th-let's keep it going-love, Me J. W. The man from Bergen is looking for you! Janet the cabin isn't the same with 'out you! The rnan from Bergen strikes again! · Barrishekov, How are the Swedish sleeping bags? A--Don't get stuck working in the chicken coops. Have a great time in Israel! Maria--HAPPY BIRTHD- AY! ! We love you-2nd Floor West Sue, Brenda, Nat, Kelly- thank you for being such great friends.--the U.S.U. General Manager!?!! McKean Girls Are Great!! t_>ete: Go to your rum! Matt: How's your twig? Guys: Good luck this weekend-y()u'd better win! P.S. \ We'll miss you!! Madame M.T. Keep up the go()d work! (Get 'em up!) \

.Page 10· OONQORDIENSIS., November 15) 1979 Mike Ouelette Student Life Report Continued from page I matter, i.e., getting grades. F'or many students, this part of the college is not fun; it is not an. end in itself; by itself it is ·Of no ,,alue; in fact, most students hate it and dread it but view it as the serious, important business of the college.\ The secend category, that of ex- tracurricular activities: per- sonal and intellectual development, athletic par- ticipation, ana other activities not seen as part of .the educational process, are per- Jeived of as being of secondary importance. The general lack of com- mitment to the undergraduate student is probably easiest to explain by citing the often- heard phrase, \Nobody seems to care.\ The report relates that \by using this phrase, students seem te be trying to articulate a somewhat vague feeling of unfulfilled expectations.\ The committee recognizes that there is a lack of support for the students by faculty, ad- Dlinistrators and staff. This is as a result of Union's failure \to act on the philosophy that its primary purp.ose is the development (personal, social, and spiritual, as well as in- tellectual) of the undergraduate student.\ The conunittee has deter- mined that although Union College is a small college, ·it seems to be administered (in the broadest sense of the word) by a rigid and impersonal bureaucracy which stifles creativity and personal growth. Any attell!pts to change policies r if students are aware of them at all) is frustrating, and since students often feel that genuinely good ideas are rebuffed for essentially bureaucratic reasons ignoring. personal concerns. Thus, many students eventually conclude that Union, whether consciously or not, mirrors the society's notion that the future, not the present, is of primary· im- portance. . The report states that· \many students and faculty feel strongly that Union lacks a sense of identity and that there are no strong feelings of tradition concerning the college.\ The committee found 'Will fer Mounfaineering • · .. ~ .. Oulet·te D&livers byDANBOOTH The first words spoken to his cla~s were \I am a professional actor.\ Such was the in- troduction of Professor Michael Ouellette to the students of E.nglish at Union College. Professor Ouellettes specialty is the Medieval period of English literature, as well as Elizabethan drama. The likes of Shakespeare, Spenser, Herbert, and Marlowe are his fortes, and he delivers lectures upon them with great force of delivery employing his hands, his a common sense of dissatisfaction among the students, many of whom wish to be at other institutions. The report recommends that a process of creating a tradition for Union be begun. Lectures and exhibits focussing on Union's history and on 'the Ramee campus would be in- formative for students already on campus. They also suggest that the orientation program continue to focus on Union's history, and that. a short brochure on the subject be sent out to incoming students before they arrive. The report also indicates that \Fitz-Hugh Ludlow Day wa~ a · fairly successful attempt to provide a social event which would unite the campus while stressing pride in Union's history. We urge that it con- tinue, and that if be officially encouraged. We .also suggest that a formal opening con- vocation each fall would help stress Union's academic history and traditions. '' The committee also reported on specific areas within the college in sununary. The report will be released within the next week. The members of the stance, and indeed his very gait to emphasize a point. Michael did his un- derg·raduate study at Brown, where he majored in Latin anJi Greek with the ambition ·of becoming a high school.teacher .. He graduated in 1965, and, caught between the choice of going to Vietnam or graduate school, he choose the latter. At Harvard he concentrated on literature, but like many of us, he was unsure of where he was going in life. His real break came when he received a fellowship to attend Oxford University in England. For the first time he saw Shakespeare performed \intelligently and innovatively.\ At the Univer- sity theatre was an academic pursuit, not just an \extra''. Upon returning to the states, Professor Ouellette began his career teaching in a small college at the University of Maryland, but the urge to act, to direct, and to write drama led him to become active in a theatre group at the college where he performed in such committee are: D. Damrell '79, T. Dowling, H. Fabian '79, L. Katz '80, R. Kellett, M. Nagorsky '79, J. Sowa (chairman), W. Thomas, L. Walker. plays as The Twelfth Night, and Uncle V anyQ., 1Ie left the college soon afterwards to attend a professional acting school in Dallas which he has just grCiduated from. _ . \What I felt impelled to ask, \is. a professional actor doing teaching at Union College?\ Professor Ouellette answered that he does not ·ex- pect to teach for the rest of hi~ life, because he would like to become involved in a professional acting company, but at the moment the job was offered to him, he needed a job and teaching is something that he enjoys. Having now taught one. trimester, he finds the school and the students somewhat different than he expected. He finds the student's attitudes very career oriented, with perhaps excessive worrying about the grade and where they are going after school. He would -like to 'See more participation and more interest 'in what he considers s·ome of the finest works of literature ever written. Affairs Council's authority to supervise student activities.\ . \Fhe Forum believed that the inclusion of this section (5B3) could create conflicts between . the Student Affairs Council and Governance. e • thetlStudel~t ~orumdwdi;th ~ebsp~ct . to · 1e po Ictes an 1strr utwn Contmued ryom pag-e 1 \' of student activities money. Forum amendment \to involve Dean Kellett and former the Stt~dent Forum in the work Acting Dean of Students Rudy of the ACademic Affairs Nydegger, as well as a few Council.\ The amendment faculty members spoke against allows the Student Forum to the Forum amendment. Sub- call for an official recon- sequently, the facu1ty voted si-deration of an Academic overwh~lmingly against the Affairs policy recommendation, amendment. without giving the Forum\' the Throughout the four . faculty power to veto otwrite academic meetings, a delegation of Senior policy. Forum members,· including The final amendment Student Body President Ken discussed at the third meetillg Plumb, . were in attendance to was a Student Forum amend- defend the various Student ment \to eliminate the Student Foruril awendments, THE IS A STUDENT ORGAt\1 lZATfON PROMOTING THE WILDERNESS EXPERIENCE~~ PROVIDING OTHER ADVENTURES fN THE OUT-OF-DOORS FOR TENDERFOOTAND EXPERT ALIKE. . ·•O EVERYONE lS WELCQME TO JOIN US ·FOR·: .Backpack ins RocJ:c/imbin9 · Snowshoein9 Day/likes Cav~ Exploring Kf1yakin9 ./3icycle Trips- WJ~~f~Mowrlaii'H3!?rt\ng Spec/a/-. . Canoe'~!} X-CounfrySki-fourin_y E)(pedtfu'\f 0 • Meefin9s every.TuesdQy@J -;.~3(ipm in Carnegie {sfrauss or tit<! fOy~r) • Scheduled I U~nced trips Evr:ryW~k • £9uipment, Food, ~ · · Arranged INTERESTED ? PLEASE STOP AT A MEETING ... OR CALL GORDON CARLSTROM • 3n- 5Z48 OR CARL. SNYDER· :382-54:3! 61 B Uni~ last sE a di~ Fredo the'fi1 tourm and sl the fi1 mudd: resurr dition Dutcl scorin not C< siyely was knock c I Th{ count disap Satur finish regio1 who l the t< for t throu with team Ed a str1 stron finisll indiv: five close: A dan Th1 howe Tom Dutcl 55th, Dave • - Com The on J gam Cen1

a n 0 ' s. t I ' CONOORDIENSIS, November 15~ 1919 ;Page 11 aportts ' • \ ' • • I • • • • ' . ' ' ' . . ' . ·~ . . .. Booters Bo·w In ECAC by Mike Canning Union's soccer team ended its last season of the seventies with a disappoiqting 2-o loss to Fredonia thiS past Saturday, in the 1 first round of the E.C.A.C. tournament. The teams slipped and slided to a scoreless tie in the first half on an extremely muddy field. The second half resumed with the sloppy con- ditions getting even worse. The Dutchmen had numerous · scoring opportunities, but could not connect for a goal. Defen- siyely, goalie Doug Crawford was once again superb,. knocking awav many good ,,,,. :::-.. ~,.'·' . scoring chances by_ Fredonia. But with 15 minutes remaining in the game, a cross pass from the left Wing ·into the front of the · goal was booted past Crawford by a Fredonia striker. · The Dutchmen fought back but could not score. Late in the game, Fredonia added a second goal to ice the victory: Althoughthe season ended on a disappointing note, it was still a succ.essful season. Coach Magee expressed his pride in the teaii1 and commended them for never giving up, par- ticularly when the pressure was on. Captains Keith Miller and Doug Crawford often led th(' .. Cross-Country Disappointed The Union College cross- countr.y season came to a disappointing close this past ' Saturday with an 8th place finish in the NCAA div. III regional meet. The Dutchmen, who had hoped to finish among the top four teams and qualify for the nationals, suffered through a subpar performance with several members· of the-- team running hurt. Ed Aroheiter, weakened with a strep throat, still turned in ·a strong performance and finished 21st, missing qua'lifying individually for the nationals.by five seconds. Arnheite~; was· closely followed by teamfuate· Adam Licht in the 23rd position. The rest of the team,.. however, failed to place high. Tom llallenbeck was the third Dutchmen to finish, , placing 55th, while Pete Vielkind and Dave Dellehunt placed 65th c.. ... 1 . . 67th. A major factor in the team's poor performance was the loss of John· Casale. Casale was injured. in a race the previous weekend and competed hurt. ·He gamely struggled through three fnile~ before 6eing pulled off the course by Coach Ted Bick. Although five members of the varsity squad will be returning next fall, t\Qe team will still feel the loss of seniars Pete Vielkind and Tom Hallenbeck. Both have been key members in the team's success during the past few years. After the meet, coach Ted Bick expressed satisfaction at the team's performance. However,. he also felt that the loss of Hallenbeck and Vielkind to graduation this spring will leave some holes in next year's line-up. Bick concluded, \It's going to be tough to replace. that pair.\ Comihg Scron Winter. Term: . . . . The Second Annual Fiji 24 Hour Marathon Basketball Game on January 18th .and 19th in the Alumni Gym. This year's ~ame. ~ill be benefitting the Sunnyvlew Rehabilitati()n enter 1n Schenedadv. C()me on out and support us! , team in close games. Seniors Jamie. Hilton, Mike Mulpeter, Pete Van Valkinburgh, Chris Walsh and Bob Fishman closed out their careers playing on il close team which had fun in winning and in losing. On behalf of everyone con- nected with the Union soccer progr.am, I would like to thank all of our loya:l supporters who stayed with us throughout the entire season, from the 1200 fans who turned out for the 1: \' Army game, to the couple of ~ dozen who sat through pouring rain and traveled throughout ~ the state to suppert the team. ~ 0 0 a: Skaters Look To Opener by MATT KAYNE. and RICH DECKER The Union College Flying Dutchmen played their second and f~nal pre-season game against\\merican International College Saturday· night at Achilles Rink. They followed a stunning upset over Division I Colgate with a sluggish and lackadaisical effort against A.!. C. The Dutchmen seemed at times to be intimidated and unable to penetrate the soli@ defense of the Yellow Jackets as they were downed, 7-3. Mike Merlo opened up the game once again in the nets and he surrendered four goals on 17 shots on net in one and one half periods. A.I.C .. quickly opened .ilp the scoring oil a goal by Frank Zanetti, assisted by Jim Gibson and Bob Nelson within . the first 26 seconds of the game. Sophomore Bill Wall tied the score at the 1:00 mark on an assist by Scott Fitzgerald when he found the puck undefended in • the A.I.C. goal crease. Before the· period ended, A.I.C. tallied twice more on goals by Gerry DeG_osmo and Dave Tenney. At the end of one period A. I. C. led, 3-1. Senior 'Sparky Anderson brought the Dutchmen right back into the game when he converted on passes from Al DiLibero and Kevin Marr at 1:36 of the second period, but A.I.C. took a two goal lead at 4:01 when Mark Arnold slapped a loose puck off the stick of Gus Reschia by goalie Merlo. Seven minutes after Senior goalie Dave Josephson took the nets, forward Bill Mason unleashed a low wrist shot past A.I.C. freshman goalie Steve Hudyka, assisted by Mark \Huck\ Haley. The score at the end of two stood at 4-3, A.!. C. on top; Union had outshot their opponents 12 to 6 in the period. As hopes were flying high for a comeback win for the Dut- 'ehmen, A.I.C. all but put the game out of reach by scoring a shorthanded goal off of Glenn Colantario's stick at the 2:06 mark of the third period; within two minutes Jim Daggett fired another: goal into the nets over Dave Josephson's outstretched glqve hand. This gave A.I.C. a com- manding 6'-3 lead. Each team added one more goal; the Union goal scored by Jerry Rodgers from Mike Martelli arid Scott Fitzgerald and the A.I.C. goal scored by Vic Amato from Gus Reschia to make the final score A.I.C. 7. Union 4. The Dutchmen begin the regular season this coming Saturday evening opening up against Elmira College at Ehnira. The next home game will be on Tuesday. November 20 against Division II Cortland State at 8:00 P.M. at Achilles Rink. Tickets are available at the b()x office in Achilles Rink Monday thru Friday from 8:30 to 4:30P.M. GAME STATISTICS: 1ST PERIOD: SCORING: AIC, 1, Zanetti (Gibson, Nelson), 0:26; Union, 1, Wall (Fitzgerald), 1 :00; AIC, 2, DeCosmo (Amato), 12:36; AIC, 3, Tenney (DeGennaro, DeCosmo), 16:06. PENAL TIES: Zanetti, AIC, High Stick, 0:46; Perras, Union, Tripping, 1:52; Arnold, AIC, Interference, 8:52; Turnbull, Union, High Stick, 10:03; Marr, Union, Tripping, 17:23; Amato, AIC, Late Hit; }9:47. . 2nd PERIOD: SCORING: Union, 2, Anderson ( DiLibero, Marr), 1:36; AIC, 4, Arnold (Reschia), 4:01; Union, 3, Mason (Haley), 17:52. PENALTIES: Mason, Union, Roughing, 1:52; Arnold, AIC, Roughing, 1: 52; Nicholson, Union, Clbowing, 6:42; Wall, Union, Interference, 7:48; Reschia, AIC, Tripping, 9:48; Arnold, AIC, Tripping, 11:31; Zanetti, AIC, High Stick, 14:31; Marr, Union, High Sti·cking, 14:51; O'Neill, Union, Charging, 19:12 . 3rd PERIOD: SCORING: AIC, 5, Glantonia (MacDonald), 2:06; AIC, 6, Daggett (Zanetti), 4:20; Union, 4, Rodgers (Martelli, Fit- zgerald), 10:09; AIC, 7, Amato (Reschia), 12:12. PENALTIES: Zanetti, AIC, · Crosschecking, 1:20; Ferguson, Union, Hooking, 2:43; Marcotte, AIC, Tripping, 9:04; Giaquinto, AIC, Tripping, 16:36. Score By PeriOds 1 2 3 T AIC 3 1 3 7 Un~n 1 2 1 4 Attendance: 2,100. Intramural Notes The action ·packed intramural season is drawing to a close. In basketball, the UColl NBA title was captured ·bY the Cougars who shut out the opposition with a 6.() _record. Bob Birenbaum hustled the team to victory with the aid of outside shooter Joe Pelligrino and Jason Seiken who displayed his tough rebounding skills in the total team effort.· The Running ]tebels took second place. Returning champs Sigma Chi took the ABA title with a 6-0 record. Rick Mirabito, a pure shooter and excellent driver, aggressive Joe Lavery and all around __ player Scott Troxell helped Sigma Chi regain the title!. D~lta Phi, AD Phi \A\ and Phi Sig \A\ tied for second place. In EBL action, the Three Star team trounced the opposition with a season record of 6...0. Ted Vogel's deceptive moves contributed to the victory of the , hustling team. Intramural soccer action saw Sighta Chi Blue win the American League title with a 5- . o record. Fiji \A\ captured the National League title with a 4-0 record and the Constellations took the number one spot in the Easterrr League. ' In other intramural play, Delta Upsilon brother Jeff Cring took first place in the eight-ball pool tournament, with Marin(\, also a DU brother, taking second place. Sig Chi brother Rob Fischman ran to a rewarding victory finish in the cross country run. Doug Calvey of Delta Upsilon won the field goal kicking with a forty yard field goal. Bill Reisner of Phi Sigma Kappa placed second and Tom Flet- cher of D:U placed third in this event. Congratulations to all the · champions of this past in- tramural season.

Page 12 OONOORDIENSISJ No~ember 15J 1979 . '' Cahill Released Union College Athletic Director Richard Sakala confirmed Tuesday that the contract ·Of head footbaH coach Tom Cahill will not be renewed. In making the announcement, Sakala said the decision was reached after a lengthy evaluation of the overall per- formance of the football program. Noting the ebb of morale among both players and coaches, Sakala said that he believes the program needs a fresh perspective and a new direction. Tom Cahill was appointed. head football coach at Union in December 1975. The former head coach at the U.S. Military Academy replaced Gerry Everling who left the College after four losing seasons. d' # t In eight years as head coach at Army, Cahill compiled a 40- 39-2 record, and won coach of the year honors in 1·966 after the cadets turned in an 8-2 season. Although the Cadets again finished 8~2 in 1967, football fortunes at West Point began to decline in Cahill's later years there, and the team finished 0-10 in 1973. Relieved of his coaching duties in 1974, Cahill was ap- pointed assistant athletic director in charge of operations and planning at the academy. · A native of Syracuse, and a 1942 graduate of Niagara University, Cahill, now 60, served as an infantry captain in the South Pacific during World War II. After the war, he served 10 years .at Manlius Academy as head coach in football, . . , Senior Rich Romer won the Ralph 1-:1. Rhue Award Saturday vs. Hamilton. Romer passed the 3,000 yard total offense in his finale. ·v-Ball 5th In State byBARBPLOTKlN Albany State 7-15,' 15-9, 15-10; fifth seeded Fredonia 4·15, 15-3, The Volleyball team 15--8 and twelfth seeded St. represented Union College , at Francis 15-6, 15:.Q. Having been the Division III New York State undefeated in 'pool play' Union tournament h~ld this past entered the simple elimination weekend in Buffalo. The team's round on Saturday. Union won outstanding record of 19-4, the first game against the op- •, carried the women to the State posirtg Buffalo State team 15-7. Meet. UColl, seeded thirteenth The hitting was inconsistent in out of a group of sixteen clubs, the second game and UColl lost took the impressive fifth spot in as a result of their own errors the tourney. 11-15. What mistakes had been On Friday, the participating made in the second game teams competed against one carried over to the final game of another in 'pools'. That is, the the match which Union lost 0-15. fourth, fifth, twelfth and thir- The volleyball team, having teenth seeded teams consisted placed fifth in the New York of one 'pool'. In round robin State tournament, has playing fashion, the teams demonstrated that womens played against one another with sports at Union are of a high the best two out of three games calibre. Overall, the volleyball winning the match. The top two team played an outstanding teams in every pool entered the tournament. Though the entire winners bracket. A cham- team deserves much praise, pionship elimination round special mention goes to Lydia which took place Saturday Canavan Who served powerfully . consisted of the top eight teams under pressure. Now that the in the tournament. UColl was a young team has tournament 'winners bracket team'. \' experience behind them, Before this dynamic ac- Volleyball '80 is being eagerly complishment was achieved awaited. · UCOLL beat fourth seeded basketball, and baseball. In 1957 he became head football coach at River Dell Regional High School in Oradell, - N.J. He jotned the staff at West Point in 1959 coaching plebe football and baseball. Cahill was appointed head coach in 1966 when Paul Dietzel vacated the position. Union, which has had only 2 winning seasons in the last 20 years, went 12-27-1 during Cahill's five year tenure. Cahill coached in the annual college all-star game in 1967 in Atlanta, the 1968 East-West Shrine Game, and the 1969 All- Kmerica Game in Tampa, Fla. Tom Cahill is well-respected by his players and peers. The sports staff at Concordy would _ like to express our good fortune to Coach Cahill in his future endeavors. by RICH HOPE The Union College football team ended their disappointing, ~njury-ridden season last Saturday on a bright note, convincingly beating Hamilton, 31-0. The win, the Dutchmen's third, to go along with five loses, ended a three game slide. Union looked tike a different team than the one which had played the three previ·ous outings, when they trounced the Continentals in the year's finale on Saturday. The offense had their best showing of the season compiling one 409 total yards. The defense also had a strong day, limiting the top-ranked passing team in the nation to only 90 yards in the air and picking off six passes from the Hamilton quarterback, Phil Greenough. Greertough had throws for over 1,700 yards this season for a game average of better than 270. Union jumped. on the scoreboard six minutes into the game on a 49 yard gallop by senior tailback Rich Romer. Dan May added a point on the Coach Tom Cahill kick and Union led 7-0. Towards the end of the first half, it was Romer again, keeping the Union drive alive by rushing t<Jthe Hamilton's 20 on a 14 yard carry. Four plays later, Romer scampered six yards to paydirt for Union's second touchdown. Ori the day, Romer had 2 toJlchdowns and 181 yards on 24 carries to end his career. The second half showedh Union's continuea dominance over Hamilton.' Early in the , half, Pete Herber;t picked off a Greenough pitch, setting up Dan · May for a 46 yard field goal. Later in the third period, Union drove 78 yards to score on a well-executed reverse from Dana Johnston to senior flanker Kevin Fredrick. Union owned a demanding 17-0 lead. Minutes into the final period, reserve halfback Mike Squires • closed Union's scoring with a 12 yard run into the endzone. May added the extra point for his- seventh tally of the day. Although the season was a disappointing one for the Dutchmen, Saturday's game '\lliflOl!( ,· 7 had some positive asp.ects. Union is losing many veterans, but many talented un- derclassmen will be returning to next years squad. The football team looks to an op- timistic future. EXTRA POINTS: Senior Rich Romer ended ' his fine career Saturday with 2 touch- downs and 181 yards. This upped Romer's season rushing to 672 yards to go along with 153 yards on kick-off returns and 63 yards on pass receptions. Saturday's game put Romer's lifetime total ·offense over the 3000 yard mark, the second highest in l!nion -history. The halfback also rushed for over 100 yards 14 times in his career. ' Place kicker, Dan May ac- counte.d for 30 points this season, connecting on 9 for 9 in extra point attempts and c-onverting 7 of 12 field goal tries. May also punted 61 times .. for ~1753 yards to average over- 28 yards per kick. Senior Kevin -Frederick was second in total team offense gaining 572 yards. Frederick also contributed three touch-· downs to Union's offense, ' . ~'1\tOJi. \~~e~ 10 , ., .· .. · <g. - - ... , ~- VOLLEYBALL TEAM: Front Row (L.-R) Alicia Grenlund, Sheila O'Donnell, Natalie Stone,·, Katie Schatzle, Jill Thomson., Amy Hinshaw. Back Row CL-R) Coach Barta, Brenda Hugick, Sue Marr, '.Kelly Green, Lydia Canavan,· ~ynn LeBlanc, ~aren Roth. / I 4 I • I ...... - .c r Blo~ eco Coli half sidE Coil En~ ticu the: De< o£1 · cau son Del $1 whi val by! the est; Jar am ere sell Mr Ho- be< the arr $75 spE th€ '·'a De mE Jr. 1 thE di~ de' th< Er to H~ or m1 Ul DE ex tit tic D1 cr ne of ct \1 he bt E1 N m UJ D w tll D eJ a1 le v: II

