Oswego overall it is in the Maine Haley goals; Mike Jim Mark son has against has against meet as 6 feet his season his triple feet 8 in feet 11 his effort un· high won his Also set finish been ge his year's Kevin another 1000 yd for in the Union dwith a ' shy of As will 17) have others ots at yle ~d meet at .Founded at Union College 1877 Vol. 108, No. 16 . \\ Schenectady, N.Y. Presidential Candidate Here: John S •. Morris by JIM DAVIS Joh11 S. Morris, the .first ofthe three finalists ,in the search for a new Union President to visit the campus, said in an· open meeting with students last Thursday that he thinks \the major problem Union has · to face'' is f'to come together and deCide what it's about.\ Inform-ally discussing questions posed by the ap-. , proximately three d()zen students in . attendance, Dr. Morris added that it will be the new President's role 'to set the College on a path it will be comfortable on in the future.\ He believes he could do a good job representing Uni<m .. because he believes it is.a \good .place.\ At the same time, he acknowledged the ''problems Union has faced in th_e past few years .. \ But this indicated the ''resiliency, not the weakness'' of the institution, he _noted. Dr. Morris has served as Acting President, Provost and Dean of Faculty at Colgate University, where he has ta11ght philosophy and religion since 1960~ While there, he has played a major role in designing a new go~,ern.ance system for the university. Stressing that the faculty should have \quality control''- final say in all such decisions- Or. Morris ·said all groups sho~d have input into the governance system, and that . the president's role should be \as a leader, to bring pe()ple together-but not to rule· ab- solutely.\ lt) up to the president and dean of faculty to determine where problems exist and ~ 1 Iggest remedies, Dr. Morris l. said. But it's the _responsibility of the persons who are mem- bers of the governing bOdies to implement their requests. \Students should have a say on committees,\ he said. ''But the faculty should determine_ the outcome~ o.f. all policy \ decisions.'' ·\'J ~ E / Dr. Morrts noted the .. => similarity between Union ami ~ Colgate. \They;re ,}x)th high >-- quality sm(lll Uberal arts 5 · colleges whose students have ~ trouble accepting its ex- ~ cellence.\ If Granting that Union, in fact, is \not much different than its competitors in the kind of program it offers,\ Dr. Morris stressed that if he becomes president here., an effort :will be made to present what Union offers in a unique and attractive manner. As an example, he cited ef- forts to recruit high school seniors_ who have been accepted by colleges, but have not· yet decided which one to attend. \At Colgate, we've found that our best salespeople are' students. So we try to arrange events for them to meet with accepted candi,dates.\ · _ Vntil .re.cently~ _Dr~ . ..Mor.tis\-- added, Colgate has been plagued by the same problem that presently besets Union: l: that a relatively small-about 30 !l percent-nuniber of the students ;t who had received acceptances l chose to attend there. ~ . The drop in \yield\ at Colgate ~ has~been arrested, acC()rding to if Dr. Morris. \And the students' enthusiasm has been !i key to the success.'' As colleges face declining applicant pools in the coming years, this program. can Continued on 8 Howard-R. Neville, President of the University of Maine-Orono, visited the Union campus on Monday and Tuesday. John S. Morris, one of the three finalists for the position .of Uni.on College President, is shown here meeting with students Thursday. Thursday, March l, 1979 Presidentilll Candidate Here: ·Howard R. Neville by DOUG ROSENF.ELD \I would not expect to leave Union.\ This statement prefaced the remarks of Union .presidential candidate, Dr. H()ward R. Neville, at the Feb. 26 meeting between Neville and - the campus community. The current President of the University of Maine at Orono went on to indicate that he envisions a decision to accept the position of Union President as a final career move. He expects that he would \either die in or retire from\· that position. Neville, whose major field of academic concentration is in economics, spoke generally on a number of topics. He laid down a foundation for audience questioning by listing what he would see as his \three or four major priorities\ if he were President of Union College. The first priority that Neville mentioned is to \have the college secure financially.\ Union's quest for an additional $30 million endowment, he c~aims, \must get done.\ When asked how he sees the president's role as a ~undraiser, . Nevl'lle said b.e sees the president as a ''chief asker\ for funds. Thbfis the role he would assume for himself, he in- dicates, as one who \has bad a similar campaign\ and, thus, \understands the $30 million fund drive.\ Neville also called attention to the need for cultivating a good \relationship with alumni and friends to secure en- ~'·Jwments. '' However, when hard pressed to reveal exactly how he sees the Board of Trustees should be involved in the fund raismg proc-ess, Neville only offered tbe scanty reply, \I expect the trustees to be involved.\ When asked how be would sell the~ school to prospective students and potential donors, Neville pointed to the student role in selling the college. He added, \if the school can get over its recent problems,\ which he believes it has done, \it will be okay.\ When quizzed on his sen- timents concerning c«>ntinuing education's role at Union in the future, Neville emphasized that he sees Union's undergraduate program as its \primary reason for being. •·• Consequently, he views the undergraduate poogram as the \primary recipient of college resou.rces.\ Continuing education will be offered as the college fulfills its \responsibility to the com- munity,\ but only if \course quality level is appropriate to Union College, not just for money.\ As another goal facing the next UColl President, Dr. Neville notes the need for a \maintenance or increase in the quality of the student body and the education\ at Union. He states, as \one of my big disap:pointments'' upon profiling the student body at Union, that \there are only 11 National Merit Scholars\ here. For _ exceptional students, Neville cites his interest in and support of the concept of an h~nors pro~ram. He is pleased w1th UMame's new program, one which \invited about 125 freshmen into the program the first year.\ As the third and final goal he Continued on page 8 Zweibel Speaks Tonight Murray Levison, new Student Body Vice President. Levison Ne·w V.·P. Senior Murray Levison was the winner of Tuesday's election to fill the vacant position of Vice President of the student body · for the remainder of · this academic year. He defeated Todd Miller, a s~nior, and Jeff Cappelle, a sophomore. Levison, who ran for the position of Vice President last spring, had served until his election as Senior Class Representative. A new representative Will oe ap• pointed shortly. Prior. to the ·election, Levison told Concordiensis that he was seeking the Vice Presidency both to serve the College and meet a personal challenge. As chairman of the Com- mittee on Committees, one of the responsibilities of his new position, Levison will assume authority over the committee, on which he has served for the past year-and-a-half. No student filed d position to run for the vacant .office of Student Body Secretary. Since no write~in candidate received 25 percent . of the 426 ballots cast, the Student Forum will appoint a new .secreatry, taking - the write-in votes into account. Alan Zweibel, comedy writer for NBC's \Saturday Night Live,\ will appear at Memorial Chapel at 8:30p.m. tonight. The visit is sponsored ·by Speakers' Forwn, and admission is $1.50 at the door,. 75 cents to Union students. Zweibel, who won an Emmy for his work on the late-night satirical series, worked in a delicatessen before joining \Saturday Night Live.\ When producer Lorne Michaels hired him as an apprentice writer, says Zweibel, \I really didn't have any solid credentials to be a writer on the show. I was hired 'basically to help out with writing jokes--LOrne liked the way I wrote jokes-and to learn.\ Less than· half way into the first season, Michaels would refer to him as \one of the major writers on the show.\ Zweibel was born in Brooklyn, and moved to Long Island at age eight. .t\fter graduating from the University of Buffalo, he was supposed to enter law school, but opted for a career as a writer. He wrote first fqr a nwnber of stand-up comed1ans, but got tired of the kind of material {\wife jokes, stuff about alimony . . . \) that was standard fare for the borscht belt. \t couldn't write that I wanted to write,\ he said. So he decided to turn per- former and deliver his own material at spots like New York's \Catch a Rising Star\ and \Improvisation.\ He had taken his delicatessen job to augment his writer's income, and .continued at the deli after becoming a performer. After eight months of th~t routine, the \Saturday Night Live\ break came. Aware of the controversy \Saturday Night Live\ has generated Zweibel has said this about so-called \tabooh subject matter in comedy: \I don't think anything ; s taboo if it can be done tastefully. If it's done in an intelligent way, I don't want to know if someone is offended- that's his problem. If it ~~ handled in a very lin- professional, very unclassy way, people have a rigltt to he offended.\ Zweibel, \Saturday Night Live\ comedy writer.

. , Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, March 1, 1979 Editorial A THANK YOU It's hard to believe but a new editor has come and gone. Last September seems so long ago but it's time to t1;1rn the reigns of editor to a new partnership. We . don t want. to use this space to complain a bout the apathy or inactivity of the student body. We would rather compliment the renewed sense of commitment that a. small group of ihdividuals has shown in puttlng out each issue of the newspaper. Bearing on the in· terest evtderit in the paper last Spring, we frankly were concerned about the future of Ooncordiensis. Our aim was to put out the best possible newspaper that we could and I believe we succeeded. To our surprise a staff emerged this fall whish is the 'best thi:Rg,. in our opinion, that has ever happened to the newspaper. Some 20 highly committed and talented individuals have shown the campus that, yes, we can have a high quality newspaper here at Union that does its best to cover the happenings of campus life as well as the viewpoint of members qf the campus. Without getting overly wordy, we'd like to thank everyone on the staff, especially Jim, Doug, Donna, Df'bbe, Sue, Steve, Terri, Pat, Cary and Matt. As our last editorial decision, we'd simply like to say, thanks! Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor News Editors Feature Editors· Layout Editor Arts Editor Sports Editors Photo Editors Subscription Staff Copy Editor Finelines Calendar Dave Rubin Dave Schmertz .. David Rubin, David Schmertz · Matt Nagorsky Jim Davi$, Doug Rosenfeld Donna Creeley, Sue Barnhart Terri Moran Steve Monosson MattKayne, Mark Palomba CaryFeuerman, Pat Wright Martha R11benstein, Linda Owen, Joe Flanagan Lisa Klein, Carole Reinig, Debbe Damrell Sue Marr, Roberta Moss, Pam Ryan Sara Simmons JanDeDeka Melissa Cragin Union Views: Letters Disgusted To the Editor, are defying your monuny by taking things_that aren't yours, or maybe you just have some sort of kinky pitcher and carafe fetixh. Union, we did not know how the ski club was run in former years. Howev~r, we were in ski . clubs for two or three in fora • Reflections Of The Winter Of '79 by JIM DAVIS It's undeniable. The melting snowbanks and lengthening days bear that out. Spring is on the way, kids. Springtime! The mere thought is like a. warm, soft breeze, bringing visions of picnics, soft ball games and long, lazy afternoons and evenings in the sun. If it's not just around the comer-schenectady winters die hard-then spring is just a short ways down the street. But before we bid the winter of 1978- 79 adieu, we should pay it our respects. Dean of Faculty Paula Brownlee called this a \time of waiting . . . when lots of little things are being done.\ She's right. While there haven't been any explosive events whose reports we <:ould splash across our front pages, a quiet, orderly process has .been taking place to select Union's first Dean of Admissions and 16th President. They should be named before the first buds appear on the trees or our next issue ap- pears. And everyone should take a keen interest in getting to know who these people are, because it's in their hands that the College's future direction lies. In student government, as well, a low-key replacement process has been going on to fill the vacant position of Vice President of the student body. All of this has happened without most students playing an active role. Whether or not this is necessarily something to be applauded is open to question and won't be considered here. Rather, the conclusion I'll draw is that this represents a distinct shift from the mood and pace of the past several years. After the turmoil this campus has been through, this mellowing may be ·more im- portant than we realize. On a more personal level- both as news editor of Con- cordiensis and a student-this winter has provided quite a few memories. In the first role, it's been a period of perhaps not complete satisfaction that ours is the finest newspaper this college could ask for, but at least the knowledge that we've done everything we could to produce a viable means of campus ·· communication. When the staff of editors that with this issue complete their tour of duty began working as a unit at the beginning of fall term, we were short on ex- perience in both working together and putting out a newspaper. We paid our dues, and I think we've come a long way. The Concordiensis you've b~en reading this term has been highly readable in terms of both style and content. Most notable of our efforts, in my opinion, were the in- vestigations into housing and vandali~m. They. were responsibly and thoroughly done, and the housing piece brought some immediate results: dorm repairs were performed during fall tetm. recess. That work was done primarily by students, and should provide a lesson for all of us. Thisis our college, and if we want to get something done, we can best do it ourselves. The same holds for this newspaper .. It's a student publication. If you think there are areas we can improve in- and there are-merely com- plaining serves no purpose. Let the editors know how you feel bY talking to us. Or, better, yet, offer to work to help us improve our shortcomings. That's one of the strengths a small college like Union offers that most students fail to reldize and take advantag!3 of. As both producers and consumers of most human commodities here, we have an opportWiity that will probably never again be offered to shape our own future. To a large extent, we can make Union the sort of place we want it to be if we're only willing to put in the· effort. · . This isn't a plea, however, for increased participation on our newspaper (although this wouldn't , be objected to.) Rather, it's advice to get in- volved in something beyond academic pursuits. · Whatever activities they may be, this participation will both con- tribute to the College's ex- cellence and, more importantly, irtt:rease the value of your four years here. Of course it's not realistic or sensible to call for a total devotion to these pursuits, to the . exclusion of all others. Going to college is supposed to be a good as well as a meaningful time. For me, this term .has provided a good number of truly enjoyable moments. Each of us probably has particularly vivid memories that will color the way ·we'll recall this past winter. To be sure, it's not over yet. But as Billy Joel says, \Ufe will g~ on no matter who is wrong or right.\ There's no question the worst of the winter has passed. And there's nothing wrong with that. G

Page 2 OONOOBDIENSIS, March 1, 1919 Editorial A THANK YOU It's hard to believe but a new editor has come and gone. Last September seems so long ago but it's ttme . to turn the reigns of editor to a new partnership. We don't want to use this space to complain about the · apathy or inactivity of the student body. We would rather compliment the renewed sense of co~nmitrnent that a small group of individuals has shown in putting out each issue of the newspaper. Bearing on the in· terest evident in the paper last Spring, we frankly were concerned about the futare of Oo11cordiensis. Our aim was to put out the best possible newspaper that we could and I believe we succeeded. To our surprise a staff emerged Uris fall whish rs the best thing, in our opinion, that has ever happened to the newspaper. Some 20 highly committed and talented individuals have shown the campus that, yes, we can have a high quality newspaper here at Union that does its best to cover the happe:nings of campus life as well as the viewpoint of members qf the campus. Without getting overly wordy, we'd like to thank everyone on the staff, especially Jim, Doug, Donna, D~bbe, Sue, Steve, Terri, Pat, Cary and Matt. As our last editorial decision, we'd simply like to say, thanks! Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor News Editors Feature Editors Layout Editor Arts Editor Sports Editors Photo Editors Subscription Staff Copy Editor Finelines Calendar Dave Rubin. Dave Schmertz • David Rubin, David Schmertz · Matt Nagorsky Jim Davis, Doug Rosenfeld Donna Creeley, Sue Barnhart Terri Moran Steve Monosson Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba Cary Feuerman, Pat Wright Martha Rubenstein, Linda Owen, Joe Flanagan Lisa Klein, Carole Reinig, Deb be Darnrell Sue Marr, Roberta Moss, Pam Ryan Sara Sinunons Jan DeDeka Melissa Cragin Union Views: Letters Disgusted To the Editor, During my one-and-a-half year affiliation with the Union College Cabaret as a program director I have never been as disgust~d with my fellow students as r am at this point. The end of spring term this year will mark the end of niy in· volvement with the Cabaret. I predict that after this time tllere may be oo Cabaret to be involved in. Surely after all of the pocket sized properly of the Cabaret has been picked some ingenious sole will devise a way to steal the carpet that is nailed to the floor y and who knows someone may even be clever enough to steal the entire room! This term al~>ne ten pitchers~ are defying your mommy by taking thingsJhat aren't yours, or maybe you just have some sort of kinky pitcher and carafe fetixh. Maybe we sn()uld hire guards to frisk students while they eKit Cabaret, like the guards that frisk passeqge:rs at Heath.row Airport on their way t6 bOard · international nights. The point is tbat those of you wb.Q are stealing fr<>m. an organizatinn like Cabaret are the same peopie:1 who ar~ going to take the concept of student run-student organized activities down the pipe. If we cannot enj()y and respect tne efforts of our peers than maybe they would be better off directing their efforts elsewhere. So, please, do us all a favor. Stop taking tbe little \five- finger-discounts\! You are annoying m<~st of us who are paying full price. ten carafes and one microphone stand (we've stopped counting missing microphones after last winter tel'11l) have all fallen - - victim to tbe theivery which has plagued the Union campus. Pnssibly this year~s fund requisitic.mto the tax committee will have- a new item: Katey Abrams PJ:ogramDirector-Cabaret Ski Club \Expected loss due to theft- $1000\. then maybe we could be ahead of the game. I can't understand why people can't cnmeto Cabaret and enjoy themselves withoat regressing intQ tb4!se idiotic~ immature, vandal's games. For an entire dollar entrance fee I !md it , impossible to believe that ripping off Cabaret is a con-- sumerts effort to get his momw's worth. We have oonsidered a couple · of solutions, but quite candidly it seems obvi()US that those students who are determinded to swipe property that is not · their own will find a way to do so. Anyone w&uld think the pitchet'S and carafes are made of 22k. gold. A few steps have been taken, and I expect the .number Qf missing items will drop as so(Jn as down cnats are shed, but this will not alleviate the problem. WHAT ARE YOU PEOPLE DOING?!? You must have either kleptomaniacs, have . some fix.ation at an early mental atate where you feel you To the Editor: The following is a way not tG rur, a ski club: 1. Leaving to go skiing in the afternoo.n artd thereb-y nQt calling the l:n1s company to order the bus for tl;le 30. {or so) people who were planning to go skiing on that day. Thus, they did not go. 2. Refusing to leave the ski area when, tile majority of people wisll to leave early because of the extreme cold. The bar was more exciting. 3. To save money (which we· are not condoning) by hiring a van which cmly seats 12 people. There are 21 people who have the right t1> g!l skiing and there will probably not be enottgh rides. Ab!o, tll~ other \extra\ people have to find their own way to West Mountain, meaning cars. This ts a big imposition, since these p~ple are entitled t~> a seat on a bus. Also~ their money should ~ reimbursed since the van c()sts about $25> whereas the b~s ~osts $1~ . Being freslnnen here at - .. --·- . ·-- Union, we did nQt know how the ski club was run in former years. However, we were in ski . clubs f1>r two or three years in high school, and for a \bunch. of nnt as mature'' high scb.o&l · students, the club was totally organized and the responsibility re:Jt,Q9jvitl;l U:l~ i)t~13ldent ~~!~, advis~r.. Perhaps, thts · organization needs an advisor or a nwre responsible person to run this ski club. Sincerely~ Five concerned ski clubbers A \No-No\ To the Editor: It has come to my attention that the exam to be given in Biology 15 on Thursday, March 8, and the lab practical (sorry 4 '1aboraoory\) to be given in Biology 13 on Wednesday and Thursday of next week are . illegal. It is a school policy that no- tests are w be given in the tenth week of classes, and the Dean of Faculty issued an edict to ·thiS' effed last week. Not only is this further evidence of tusrespect f<Jr administrative orders on the part of some faculty members. but it is also evident of an ex- treme lack of consideration fGr the students. I don't mean to indict the biology department because there may be other tests being · given in the last week of elasses, although·so,far I haven't heard of any. I would only like to point out that the parties responsible seem to be lacking somewhat in a sense of fair play. For the most part Union students find themselves saddled with a fairly heavy workload, and an examination in the last week of classes is riot· likely to be conducive to a successful finals week. Students are reasonable people, and aU we ask for in return is a little: respect in return. Paul Feinsot 'JIO:, Reflections Of The Winter Of ~79 by JIM DAVIS It's undeniable. The melting snowbanks and lengthening days bear that out. Spring is on the way, kids. Springtime! The mere thought is like a warm, soft breeze, bringing visions of picnics, softball games and long, lazy afternoons and evenings in the sun. If it's not just around the corner-schenectady winters die hard-then spring is just a short ways down the street. But before we bid the winter of 1978- 79 adieu, we should pay it our respects. Dean of Faculty Paula Brownlee called this a \time of waiting . . . when lots of little things are being done.\ She's right. While there haven't been any explosive events whose reports we could splash across our front pages, a quiet, orderly process has been taking place to select Union's first Dean of Admissions and 16th President. They should be named before the first buds appear on the trees or our next issue ap- pears. And everyone should take a keen interest in getting to know who these people are, because it's in their hands that the College's future direction lies. In student government, as well, a low-key replacement process has been going on to fill the vacant position of Vice President of the student body. All of this has happened without most students playing an active role. Whether or not this is necessarily something to be applauded is open to question and won't be considered here. Rather, the conclusion I'll draw is that this represents a distinct shift from the mood and pace of the past several years. After the turmoil this campus has been through, this mellowing may be more im- portant than we realize. On a more personal level- both as news editor of Con- cord.iensls and a student-this winter has provided quite a few memories. In the first role, it's been a period of perhaps not complete satisfaction that ours is the finest newspaper this college could ask for, but at least the knowledge that we've done everything we could to produce a viable means of campus communication. When the staff of editors that with this issue complete their tour of duty began working as a unit at the beginning of fall te1m, we were short on ex· perience in both working together and putting out a newspaper. We paid o11r dues, and I think we've come a long way. The Concordiensis you've b~en reading this term has been highly readable in terms of both style and content. Most notable of our efforts, in my opinion, were the in· vestigations into housing and vandalism. They were responsibly and thoroughly done,. and the housing piece brought some immediate results: donn repairs were performed during fall term recess. That work was done primarily by students, and should provide a lesson for all of us. This is our college, and if we want to get something done, we can best do it ourselves. The same holds for this newspaper. I:t' s a student publication. If you think there are areas we can improve in- and there are-merely com- plaining serves no purpose. Let the editors know how you feel by talking to us. Or, better, yet, offer to vmrk to help us improve our shortcomings. That's one of the strengths a small college lil~e Union offers that most students fail to realize and take advantage of. As both producers and consumers of most human commodities here, we have an opportunity that will probably never again be offered to shape our own future. To a large extent, we can make Union the sort of place we want it to be if we're only willing to put in the effort. This isn't a plea, however, for increased participation on our newspaper (although this wouldn't be objected to.) Rather, it's advice to get in- volved in something beyond academic pursuits. Whatever activities they may be, this participation will both con- tribute to the College's ex- cellence and, more importantly, irrcrease the value of your four years here. Of course it's not realistic or sensible to call for a total devotion to these pursuits, to the exclusion of all others. Going to college is supposed to be a good as well as a meaningful time. For me, this term has provided a good number of truly enjoyable moments. Each of us probably has particularly vivid memories that will color the way we'll recall this past winter. To be sure, it's not over yet. But as Billy Joel says, \Life will g~ on ~o matter who is wrong or nght. There's no question the worst of the winter has passed. And there's nothing wrong with that. G T~ eou 'l'l Optll -:> .. .'. org~ patl one or~l Uni org Coll thai will hop Whl mal you mal ho\1 and abo inst sh() thi! yoll vit1 joir 'I pro job dol am be< the eor the .an1 gUI M~ de~ (FI bt11 M~ to J Col thE te11 Un WI: sat we wll bUl ter all LC we it Rll do1 wr wi: fer ab N< cli ' inl Ofi kn .At ar sir WI Ut co ca .pr Sil PI pr vii of ch tb h~ Cl th Cl st u c~ Tl S8 or u tb cc at s~ N fiJ w gt \ 0

,.;'_ Glee Clu-b .... -. · __ ,, .. --,:.: \ -. -· . ....... ,, e .. · ·.·f ... ··-·f- ... ~ .'_··e .. · ............. -· .. ··r_· ····-•·· -----~ : ' .·· - ::- ~ -'. - - - - '. \\\4-:. invitations to sing nut year. So·· there you have it. There · are a couple of things I should mention. For. tbose ·of you who . Men/a kin-d en0<11gb to Wlderstan~ the situation and let it slide, .,speciallytbirdfioor! We would . also like to tb'nk evetyo!le for coming $d say that we sin- cere.J,y hope you bad a nice time. However, to those of you who are so .intolerant of others, we have nothing to say except 1 PLEASE MOVE!· Michele Coven Shelley ~kstein Student Tax Approved :by STEVE GRILL andDEBBE DAMREL.L The Union College Student Forum met last Thur.-sday evening in Hale House Dining HalL Befo11e addressing the issues on the agenda, Madeline Bt?rger presented the report of the Housing Conunittee. Con- cern was expressed about the serious lack of comrnwtieation • between perS()ns involV-ed in andassociated with housing and Resident Advisor issues. There was alsr discussion jlS. to whether or not factiltymembers should be involved in the RA selection ,process. A reas()n in .favor of this move would be to monitor the process frorn an academic standpoint; a reason . against this move is .the question, should faculty members be involved in decisions on student housing situations? ~· Alan Rutkin of the St11dent Tax Committee then presented the $978-79 Student Tax Blldget. Total Student Tax Allocations amounted to $186,741, which leaves approximately $13,000 for last-minute requests by student activity gr()ups, unexpected, emergency ex- penses, possible expenditures for capital improvements ()fthe College Center, and an · allowance for some degree of leeway. This is a necessary consideration because implicit in the student. tax allocation process is the assumption that approximately $97,000 will be taken in by the various organizations. Item No. 2 of the agenda, which was to set up . a coor- dinating committee to facilitate the .Forum's review of the current organization of student government at Union, was discussed next. Andrew Wisoff proposed a motion that ch~rged the President of the Student Forum to appoint an adhoc committee :composed <>f three F·ortlm members and two Students from outside the Forurntopropose a new student constitution, and to report this · back to the 'Forwn by April 30. Part of the :responsibility of this ad.boc committee is to gather ideas and opinions from students concerning student government at Union. This . motion was passed, and . President Richards will procede to appoint this .com- mittee. Andy Mitchell of the Educational Policy Committee then brought up the matter of the major-minor proposal, currently before the EPC. He n(}ted that it is the ,present feeling among some members of the EPC that before con- sidering any major-minor proposals~ the Inter- departmental (10) pr()-gram should be evaluated. Instead of instituting a mandatory major- minor program, the idEa of making a minor area of con- centration optional has also been suggested. · . In addition. Andy noted that the new Honors Progrmn is in . its final planning stages by . DeansBrownlee and NelS()n. He also said that the EPC ex• pressed serious concern over the physical cbndition of the SocialSciences and Humanities buildings, describing them as in \horrendous condition.\ Andy said that it was his opinion. that this was an issue for the Forwn to deal with, as the problem stems from vand.alism by students studying in and passing througnthese buildings at night, and, also from neglectful upkeep concerning painting and lighting. The next topic was discussion ofthe Preliminary Report of the Governance Drafting Com· mittee for the Middle States evaluation process, continued from last week. In discussing the overall system, the question was raised as to whether there was anything really wrong with the All College Senate, or is everyone just fed up with it. Brien O'Toole ·said that while the system itself is philosophically appealing and is .suitable when working properly, it is not doing so at present. There is no dialogue as there should be in this type of system; the faculty senators come into the Senate meetings with their votes bound by their given divisional sentiments. The Forwn as a body decided that they would think a bout the governance report and the present governance system, and continue the discussion next week. Matt Nagorsky and Hope Fabian, student members on the Committee on Faculty, then expressed their views on the existing situation in this committee concerning students. Their feeling is that there are very few avenues for student input on the COF, because of the manner in which the committee functions. As student members, Matt and Hope have not been perll1itted to attend meetings in which decisions concerning individual faculty members have been made {i.e., tenure., pr()rnotion). Because they are not present at these meetings and therefore don't see policies implemented, they feel that their input at general policy meetings is not relevant due to a lack of backgroWld. They do feel, however, that student input to this committee is essential for student per- spective in any decisions in- volving the College community, just as faculty presently have input in certain dec.isions concerning matters of student standing, etc. Matt and Hope were invited to attend next week's Forum meeting to further cover this issue, which will be incorporated into more discussion of the Govemance Report. Finally, Ken Plumb of the Committee on Committees announced the names of the people recently selected from a pool of thirty-nine applicants for the 1979 Orientation Committee. They are: Katey Abrams, Karen Bader, Mike Bay, Laura Benson, Laurie Brecher, Peter Conese, Susan Farley, Rick Gagliano, Don Humphries, Lisa Katz, Amy Kloner, Brian Marks, Laurel Mastrogiovanni, Loralee Nolletti, Jeff Paige, Lynn Sollecito and Cherie Weiss. Lisa Katz and Rick Gagliano have been appointed as co-chairpeople. Good luck to all!! 197fl..1979 Student Tax Allocations Student Tax Estimated Actual Organization Allocation Return Budget Amnesty International 715 0 715 Big Brothers 1830 200 2030 Biology 705 800 1505 BSA 7950 4500 12450 Cabaret 1785 3500 5285 Cheerleaders 0 0 () Chemistry 123 75 198 .CSA 680 600 1280 .# Circle K 530 60. .... 590 Coffeehouse 3250 900 4150 Concert 23725 30150 53875 Concordiensis 11827 6360 11n87 Curling 223 240 4&3 Electronic Music Club 543 10 5:>3 Fencing 312 0 312 Film 8900 10000 1!l900 Frisbee Club 160 0 160 . Health Society 185 0 1ll5 Idol 5468 150 56111 International Relations Club 1985 0 1~85 ISA 3070 1520 4590 Men's Glee 13000 0 13000 Modern Dance 1020 5785 6305 Mountebanks 15830 3700 19530 Outing Club 2253 150 24:03 Photo Society 1000 0 1()00 Political Forum 2395 0 2395 Pre-Law 200 0 200 Rugby 1028 750 1778 Sailing 75 0 75 .. Ski Club & Te~ 1501 0 1501 Social Committee 15863 18475 34:338 Speakers Forwn 20350 2500 22850 Stone Boat 851 0 851 Student Env. All. 355 120 475 Table Tennis 574 0 5'74 Union Book 8710 6500 15210 Union Jazz Ensemble 900 0 900 Volleyball 410 0 410 When Diplomacy Fails 143 52 195 Women's Glee ClUb 6880 0 6880 Women's Network 625 200 825 WRUC 17865 + 17865 W2UC 947 0 947 Total Student Tax Allocations-$186, 7 41 Total Estimated Returns-- $284,038 Total Operating Budgets-- $97,297 t. l

\ OONOORDIENSIB~ Mt;trch 1~ 19'19 Page 3 ----~- ----Letters,__----- Glee Club T~.> the Men of the Union CoJ}~g~ .. ~E'D~IiH , · .,. ·' .. Sincerely, James M. Mastracco '79 . President Union College ~nJs Glee Club kind enough to understand the situation and let it slide, espedaUythird floor! We would also like to thank everyone for · commg and say that we sin· cereJ.y hope you bad a nke time. However, to those of you who are so intolerant of others, we have nothing to say except , PLEASE MOVE! Michele Coven Shelley Eckstein Student Tax Approved by STEVE GRILL and DEBBE DAMRELL The Union College Student Forum met last Thursday evening in Hale House Dining Hall. Before addressing the issues on the agenda, Madeline Berger presented the repert of the Housing Committee. Con- cern was expressed about the serious lack of commWlication between persons involved in and associated with flo using and Resident Advisor issues. There was alsl' discussion as to whether or not faculty members should be involved in the RA selection process. A reason in favor of this move would be to monitor the process from an academic standpoint; a reason against this move is the question, should faculty members be involved in decisions on student housing situations? Alan Rutkin of the Student Tax Committee then presented the $978-79 Student Tax Budget. Total Student Tax Allocations amounted to $186,741, which leaves approximately $13,000 for last-minute requests by student activity groups, unexpected, emergency ex- penses, possible expenditures for capital improvements of the College Center, and an allowance for some degree of leeway. This is a necessary ~onsideration because implicit m the student tax allocation process is the assumption that approximately $97,000 will be taken in by the various organizations. Item No. 2 of the agenda, which was to set up a coor- dinating committee to facilitate the Forum's review of the current organization of student government at Union, was discussed next. Andrew Wisoff proposed a motion that charged the President of the Student Forum to appoint an adhoc committee composed of three Forum members and two students from outside the Forum to propose a new student constitution, and to report this back to the Forum by April 30. Part of the responsibility of this adhoc committee is to gather ideas and opinions from students concerning student government at Union. This motion was passed, and President Richards will procede to appoint this com- mittee. Andy Mitchell of the Educational Policy Committee then brought up the matter of the major-minor proposal, currently before the EPC. He noted that it is the present feeling among some members of the EPC that before con- sidering any major-minor proposals, the Inter- departmental (ID) program should be evaluated. Instead of in~tituting a mandatory major- rumor program, the idea of making a minor area of con- centration optional has also been suggested. · In addition, Andy noted that ~he n~w Honors Program is in 1ts fmal planning stages by Deans Brownlee and Nelson. He also said that the EPC ex- pressed serious concern over the physical condition of the Social Sciences and Humanities buildings, describing them as in \horrendous condition.\ Andy said that it was his opinion that this was an issue for the Forwn to deal with, as the problem sterns from vandalism by students studying in and passing through these buildings at night, and also from neglectful upkeep concerning painting and lighting. The next topic was discussion ofthe Preliminary Report of the Govemance Drafting Com- mittee for the Middle States evalt:mtion process, continued from last week. In discussing the overaU system, the question was raised as to whether there was anything really wrong with the All College Senate, or is everyone just fed up with it. Brien O'Toole said that while the system itself is philosophically appealing and is suitable when working properly, it is not doing so at present. There is no dialogue as there should be in this type of system; the faculty senators come into the Senate meetings with their votes bound by their given divisional sentiments. The Forwn as a body decided that they would think about the governance report and the present governance system, and continue the discussion next week. Matt Nagorsky and Hope Fabian, student members on the Committee on Faculty, then expressed their views on the existing situation in this committee concerning students. Their feeling is that there are very few avenues for student input on the COF, because of the manner in which the conunittee functions. As student members, Matt and Hope have not been permitted to attend meetings in whkh decisions concerning individual faculty me!llbers have been made (i.e., tenure, promotion). Because they are not present at these meetings and therefore don't see policies implemeated, they feel that their input at general policy meetings is not relevant due to a lack of background. They do feel, however, that student input to this committee is essential for student per- spective in any decisions in- yolving the College community, JUSt as faculty presently have input in certain decisions concerning matters of student standing, etc. Matt and Hope were invited to attend next week's Forum meeting to further cover this issue, which will be incorporated into more discussion of the Governance Report. Finally, Ken Plumb of the Committee on Committees announced the names of the people recently selected from a pool of thirty-nine applicants for the 1979 Orientation Committee. They are: Katey Abrams, Karen Bader, Mike Bay, Laura Benson, Laurie Brecher, Peter Conese, Susan Farley, Rick Gagliano, Don Hwnphries, Lisa Katz, Amy Kloner, Brian Marks, Laurel Mastrogiovanni, Loralee Nolletti, Jeff Paige, Lynn Sollecito and Cherie Weiss. Usa Katz and Rick Gagliano have been appointed as co-chairpeople. Good luck to all!! 1978-1979 Student Tax Allocations Student Tax Estimated Actual Organization Allocation Return Budget Amnesty International 715 0 715 Big Brothers 1830 200 2030 Biology 705 800 1505 BSA 7950 4500 12450 Cabaret 1785 3500 5285 Cheerleaders 0 0 0 Chemistry 123 75 198 ..CSA 680 600 1280 Circle K ... 530 60 590 Coffeehouse 3250 900 4150 Concert 23725 30150 53875 Concordiensis 11827 6360 18187 Curling 223 240 463 Electronic Music Club 543 10 553 Fencing 312 0 312 Film 8900 10000 18900 Frisbee Club 160 0 160 Health Society 185 0 185 Idol 5468 150 56J8 International Relations Club 1985 0 1985 ISA 3070 1520 4590 Men's Glee 13000 0 13000 Modern Dance 1020 5785 6805 Mountebanks 15830 3700 19530 Outing Club 2253 150 2403 Photo Society 1000 0 1000 Political Forum 2395 0 2395 Pre-Law 200 0 200 Rugby 1028 750 1778 Sailing 75 0 75 Ski Club & Team 1501 0 1501 Social Committee 15863 18475 34338 Speakers Forum 20350 2500 22850 Stone Boat 851 0 851 Student Env. All. 355 120 475 Table Tennis 574 0 574 Union Book 8710 6500 15210 Union Jazz Ensemble 900 0 900 Volleyball 410 0 410 When Diplomacy Fails 143 52 195 Women's Glee Club 6880 0 6880 Women's Network 625 200 825 WRUC 17865 + 17865 W2UC 947 0 947 Total Student Tax Allocations-$186,741 Total Estimated Returns-- $284,038 Total Operating Budgets-- $97,297

; ; ' OONOOilDIENSIS, Ma:rch 1, 1979 Plans For Carnegie by PAM RYAN \ responsible for determining what exactly is required in Carnegie as a center for these activities. storage. The committee has been considering the space and time reql,lirements of individual New bobsled shell on right designed by Un.ion group. Caf11egie Hall is the center of many of the student activities. on campus. In addition to being the location of Cabaret, the mailroom, and the Pub, it also provides meeting places for variol,ls organizations. The College Center Committee is Since .fall term the committee has been involved in an effort to improve the physical ap• pearance of the inside o( car- negie. It sponsored a \Carnegie Clean Up Day\ ·in November, and the halls and several of the rooms were cleaned up. Over winter break the hall floor outside the Pub was rieWly tiled and the walls and trim were .painted. It is hoped that the remaining halls in the lobby will soon be painted to match. The activities calender board, formerly located outside the mailroom has been moved to the wall outside the pub, and a cork bulletin board was in- stalled outside the Mailroom to prevent posters from being hung on the new paint. The Committee is also responsible for the new lounge, in the lobby of Carneigie. Unfortunately, a couch and some of the other original furnishings are missing. · groups, how and by whom the rooms are cun·ently used, and. requests from groups not given a room .in the past. The purpose of this is to assess the needs for changes and additions. A statistical analysi·S , of the utilization of facilities is being wtdertaken m coordination ~ith Diane Winkler in Central Schedulin,g to deteruiine which facility is most often used and for what type of function. The committee will the'n assess this information and · determine what the greatest needs ·in terms of meeting ~pace are. Sled to Slide Soon by JIM DAVIS The sign above the door to room NllO in the Science- Engineering Building reads \Union College Bobsled Room.\ Inside, there's usually a lot of activity and welding sparks as students and other volunteers put the final touches on the bobsled they have designed to enter the trials for the 1980 Olympic Winter Games in Lake Placid, N.Y. The Union bobsled project began last spring at the urging of bobsled racer Christopher Cross. Work on the sled design started in earnest during the swnmer with $5,000 from the College 1 s Internal Education Foundation Club.) considerable time and energy. Laehtrupp 1 who is designing the sled's steering, estimates he's beenputting in about 20 hours a week on sled design and con~ . struction. In addition, about a · dozen area engineers have volun- teered their time. Eight local firms have also donated their facilities. for construction of portions of the sled, such as the runners and protective body. The value of this work has totalled some $6,000-without which the project could not have continued, as the original $5,000 IEF grant was exhuasted long ago. · To finance additional sled construction and travel ex- penses to competition sites next winter, about $50,000 will be needed. Contributions are being sought from potential large a,nd small contributors, including students. Assessing the sled's chances of competing -in the 1980 Olympics, Ullman is optimistic, but also admits that there ~re ~ number of obstacles to over- come. \I think we've .got an outside shot,\ he said. \I wouldn't have devoted this much time to it if I didn't.' And even if it will take a \minor miracle,\ in Ullman's words, for the team to qualify, the designers do not think their efforts will be for naught. They believe their design will revolutionize bobsled con- struction. And they could very well be right. ' The Committee is also con- cerned with increasing the ov:erall utilization of the building's facilities. At the present time, all of the rooms on the second and third floQrs have been assigned to individual groups for meetings and-or Three students were hired for the summer to conduct initial research on sled design and training for the racers selected to man the sled. In addition an old sled was purchased for research purposes. Vandalism ChC.rge Mi•·Up The idea of several multi- purpose meeting rooms, comparable to Strau~s Lounge, is being. stressed. This would enable a limited amount of available space to be used for a variety of purposes. Many different organizations would be able to use the same room at different times. The committee is considering knocking out some waUs along with other renovations, and installing moveable walls so that an area may be used as _qne large room or as several small areas, depending on the need. The idea of a ,large general storage area for the equipment and valuables of all organizations would make it easier for various groups to share the same meeting place. Organizations like WRUG or Concordiensis would require a David Ullman, the mechanical engineering professor who has been directing .. the students' efforts, explained that virtually all of the bobsleds used in recent years for international com- petition have been built in Italy. \I think we can build a sled superior in design and per- formance to the European sleds,\ he said. The Union sled features in- novations in aerodynamics, chassis design and seating. Ullman expects it to be com- pleted this week and to be taken to Lake Placid, site of the only bobsled run in the U.S., March 12 for its first test run. The team that will pilot the sled is composed of Schenec- tady area residents who were selected at try-outs last Sep- tember. They're showing considerable talent, according to Ullman. Entry into anY competition isn't seen for the team or the sled until next winter, though. \Expecting us to race against world class teams this year would be like telling someone who's just designed a car in his garage to race at the Indy 500,\ Ullman explained. Plans call for the sled to be tested a number of times this winter. Improvements wil1 be made during the summer, with the possibility that the present sled will be junked altogether and a new one constructed. All of this would be completed by the start ·of next winter, in time to get some racing ex- perience prior to the U.S. Olympic trials, slated for January 1980. If the team qualifies, it will compete in the Winter Olympics in February. Three senior engineering students, Dave Lachtrupp, Pete Newkirk and Ed Hurley, have been working since last Sep- tember on designing the sled for course credit. Anotbertwo; Lori Colligan and Lori Chadick, have been preparing reports about aspects of the projec:t. Other students, including Arthur Merryman, Jim Hayes and Mott Blun, llave also received credit for sled-related work. . .And . they've been · devoting by THOMAS 0. MILHAM The Ad Hoc Committee on Vandalism was originally formed by the Student Life Committee. In the beginning of fall term, the College Senate gave the Ad Hof; Committee on Vandalism a charge,. which basically describes the purpose of the committee. In reality, the charge has a dual function. The charge, specifically stated, is \to investigate the degree and nature of vandalism and to analyze previous conduct problems to determine major areas of concern, to draft a set of rules and regulations for student conduct; to propose alternative means of alleviating the problem of vandalism.\ According to Eric Levine, the Assistant Chairperson of the Ad Hoc Committee on Vandalism, substantial progress has been made in response to the charge. The next meeting of the com- mittee will see the presentation of its research undertaken to date. Specifically, a presen- tation will be made concerning a more \precise\ guide to students' rights. . The purpose of this guide, according to Dean of Students, Robert Kellett, is to \inform students as to their. rights and privileges concerning student life in general, that is to say the 'do's' and 'don't's' of student conduct.'' Dean Kellett went on to further say that \although Union College has a respon~ sibility for its students, the students in turn must take responsibility in the college.\ The second part of the charge, \to analyze previous conduct problems to determine ma.ior 464 State St. we deliver areas of concern;'' has been interpreted in various ways. The Chairpersons of the Ad Hoc Committee on Vandalism, Mark Burnett and Eric L-evine, have construed this part of the charge to mean that they Should review the Conduct Ombud- sman Committee. However, according to the (;rovernance Report 1 recently released by the College Senate, the Standing on Students Committee should review the Conduct Committee. It must be stated however that the Governance Report is still a proposal and has not yet been passed. Therefore, the Ad Hoc Committee's review of the Conduct Committee may very well be usurped if the Gover- nance Report is passed. Usa Katz, the Chairperson of the Student Life Committee, wants to see the efforts and research already nnade by the Ad Hoc Committee taken into consideration. She believes that the Ad Hoc Committee has misinterpreted the original charge given to it by the College Senate. \At no time should the members of the Ad Hoc Com- mittee on Vandalism have been reviewing the (:onduct Com- mittee. That was not the pur- pose of the charge,\ said Lisa. In relation to the ~ay in which each perceives the Comlhittee's charge, clearly there is a discrepancy between the Chairpersons of the Ad Hoc Committee on Vandalism and the Chairperson pf the Student Life Committee. In order to resolve this interpretation concerning whicn committee should be looking into \con- duct\ in more detail, a meeting will be scheduled between Dean Schenectady 374-1888. Kellett, Lisa Katz, Mark room of their own, but the Burnett and Eric Levine in the majority of groups would not. near future. The Committee is also con- After this resolution has been sidering various other made and after all research for suggestions for improving the the Ad Hoc Committee is College Center. Among these completed, a written erport of are a Post Office, a \Mini- the committee's endeavors will Mart\ a pizza parl01:, and be submitted to the College expansion of the game room. community, either in the s~cond or third week of Spring Term. The Conunittee fs currently How the report will be evaluating the needs of the disseminated is yet unknown. college committee and After the committee's assessing the current. use ·Of research is presented to all facilities. From this in- students, individual students formation they are trying to may take the initiative to come up with \a systematic, comment on the findings of the long-term proposal for the repr'i. The committee ~11 future of the College Center,\ recu11vene after students are Which will be submitted to the given several weeks · to con- Dean of Students. Carnegie is tribute constructive input into your College Center, so your the committee's findings. After suggestions are requested. The all input has been considered, Committee meets on Wed- the Ad Hoc Committee on nesdays at 6:00 pm in Student Vandalism will submit a Activities, or stop in and see Joe finalized report to the Union Zomer or Mrs. Marra with your 't · ideas. CB~g 'It! The Second Annual Delta Phi Suitcase Party will be held on Friday night, April 6, at the Union College Girling Center. The party will begin at 11 P.M. and end at 4 A.M. The winning couple of the night long elimination raffle will im- mediately be whisked off to Albany Airport to fly down and start enjoying a three day-two night all ex:pense paid dream vacation in sunny San Juan, Puerto Rico. • . Due to revised fire codes we regret that only 400 persons (200 · couples) will be permitted to attend the SADPSC. Tickets are now on sale at the Student Activities office thru Mrs. Marra. The tickets cost $10- couple. This price includes: 1. The flight to San Juan, hotel accomodations (two rooms), all meals, gratuities, and expense money. 2. Live band, called AM-FM, Under the direction of Paul Brown. This band recently appeared in Cabaret w-good reviews · 3. Free beer. Also~ 36 bottles of champagne· will be given away as consolation prizes. A donation bar with mixed drinks will be available . . . 4. The runners.up will be treated to a dinner for two at a yet undetermined classy restaurant in the area. 5. Security, insurance, and rent. AU couples attending the Suitcase Party should bring a packed suitcase because it is entirely possible that you and your companion will be spen- ding the weekend (April 7-9) in San Juan. All ticket stubs will be placed in a sealed box and tickets will be publicly eliminated at intervals thruout the party .. Champagne will be issued to every sixth couple eliminated. So if you're looking for an enjoyable way to kick off the spring term, hustle on over to Student Activities and pick up a ticket at $10-couple. Tickets are on sale to the .general public only thru next Friday, March.9. If you have any questions. call Tim or Neil at Delta Phi, 382 .. 9159. Just imagine the tension and excitement of being in the running . down to· the wire. Be tbere. Aloha.

Page 5 OONOORDIENSIS, Yarch 1, 1919 Weather Hot, Sunny 90's • 1e e SIS :E Ol ~ i >'- .0 ~ €. Vol. 1, No.1 Founded at Carnegie, Union Coltege, Cohoes, N..Y. What Me Worry ... Jimr:ny Carter-our President in '80. Presidents ·searched The search for the replacement of Acting President Norman P~ Auburn is now in high gear. The Search Committee has narrowed their choice down to two monarchs: the former Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza-Pahlevi and a local favorite-the Concessions King of Union College, Angelo \Stubs\ \Ronald McDonald\ Mazzone. The Shah was Wlavailable for comment, but Angelo, when asked about this newly-announced nomination, said, \I would like to thank all those on the committee for the nomination and a special thanks to my mom and dad for their expert upbringing.\ When asked if his candidacy for president would have any influence on the rising coffee prices in the Pub-Restaurant, the Dutch Hollow, he said, ''You ain't seen nothing yet ! ! \ Both candidates will appear before the All College Senate on March 8th, at 8:30 p.m. in SS 016. Be there-Aloha. Beer and mun- chies will be served! ! Campus Tragedy: Doug Has 10 Inches \The situation is not as bad as all that,\ said Dean of Students Robert H. Kellett, when asked to comment upon the rumored assault by student vandals upon the President's residence. Kellett went on to refute the claims made in early reports, claims that had the Auburn dog bludgeoned ruthlesshr and the house ransacked and burned, . saying, \the dog i~ merely pregnant and, as for the house, only some furniture is missing. and windows broken.\ President Auburn and his wife are \muy bueno\ according to their Hispanic domestic, Pietra Prosper. When asked how he expected the college should pay for the damages, Union's Director of Housing, David Wood, recommended skimping on napkins at meals over a~ West College. Based on figures worked out by Angelo Mazzone, Wood claims, \with three meals a day, five days a week, 400 students, now using one napkin per meal instead of three, and each napkin costing .5 cents, well . . . in the words of Maz- zone, atsa lots savins.\ The office of the Dean of Students, reknowned for its worship of statistics, is disdainful of Mazzone's approximation of the savings involved, yet, as a group painfully in love with inanity at the same time, are all for the napkin idea. · At a recent meeting of the trustees in N.Y.C., the problem of the Auburn assault. was brought to the attention of the lethargic enclave. Reaction amongst the trustees was mixed. Some men called for an immediate investigation of the situation. Others· supported the swift and decisive location and punishment of the culprits. Still others demanded that justice be served and the Auburn honor be restored through the public ostracism of the guilty, and prosecution by the law. Most just_ snored on. Meanwhile, back at the Nott, the earth-shattering con· sequences of the Auburn outrage shook the campus. The right-to-lifers, in conjWJction with the SPCA and the Pan Hellenic Council insist that the Auburn dog not abort the child so ill-contrived that bestial night. If they win the court battle, it is certain, nature not misgiving, that soon, walking the campus grounds, will be a canine fraternity member. U Coil Glee Ouh Rated In Galaxy Top .Ten The Union College Glee Club addedyet another distinction to its long list of honors. In a recent. interplanetary com• petition, held this eon on firy Jupiter, the club performed extraordinarily well. As director Hugh Allen Wilson noted, \Every bit of the tr-ip was worth it, even though Vle had to buy our own space suits.'' Highlights of the performance included the popular, ·'15roids, Sing On\ and our personal favorite, \There's Nothing Like a Venusian.\ The Jupitidians {reside.nts of Jupiter), having no n()ses, are not hampered by winter colds or sinus conditions which can lead to nasal quality in some pieces. Director Wilson, aware of the distinct disadvantage faced by his singers due tp their human anatomy, has personally coached his proteges in tile little known art of nasal-lingus in hopes of reducing the \home nose'' advantage. According to one member, \It's really kinky on Jupiter. They do everything differently here.\ · Due to the overwhel.Ihing success of the recent jallllt, a concert tour has now been scheduled to take place during finals week of spring term, including performances at the recently constructed Pluto Civic Center, an outdoo1 sing- along in the Sea of Tranquility, a benefit for the :Krypton Memorial Fund to be held in orbit where the planet used to exist, and, to wrap up this truly unique experience, a conunand performanr.e in the Cohoes Home for Unwed Mothers. Doug-Is it true that your 10 inches had something to d() with you being elected edit()r in chief? Sara..:.! hear you and Doug are really going to do it next term. Pam-Hunt and peck much? Hunt and hunt and htlllt but d~n't catch anything.' Whatcha' lookin • to catch? Anything other than a social disease .EXTRA! Rupert Murdoch makes offer ·for DIS'rOR- TIENSIS. Judy, Happy Birthday-:M. s, & D. . LS- One crazy guy ........ Happy Birthday on March 3 .from your \suities\ and the rest of 2nd floor West. · Trivia. Question for ~~xt w;eek :. ~ Who 1s the most unportant ~ author discussed in Professor ~· Murphy's Shakespeare Before: 1600 course? Marchette Who? £ Rubin-We all missed you Tuesday night. Signed the Staff . . . l ... ·, Hugh Allen Wilson-where is your next concert? Matt Nagorsky moons campus.

., Page 6. OONOORDIENSIS; March 1, 1919 Editorials· Apathy -At U.C. r ' h'. ·.·IS column was left out due .to :a lack of i.n.ferest Editors·in-Chief The Ayatollah Rubin David \Pub\ Schmertz The masses of Cohoes,. N.Y. and their mothers Andy,Imean Andrew Wizeoff Pat Wright· c-o Life Magazine Dimples, Disco Donna, Fu Man Chu,Nags, Gull, the heartbreak Kids of 409 McClellan Associate Editors Photo Editors Extras ANTI-ORIENTATION ADVISORS SOUGHT Union Views: Disco Sucks!! byJIMDAVIS alone would flourish, as the chilling temperatures of all and .wipter set in--had become an One of the best things about our fall term recess is that it offers the first real opportunity of the academic year to spend some time with old high school buddies and other friends from home. (It's true that Thanksgiving vacation does come about two weeks earlier, but since it only lasts about five minutes, there really isn't time to strike up meaningful con- versations. And even if it did last longer, chances are you'd sp~nd most of the time eating leftover turkey.) with boogy fever, I couldn't very well have started to move my feet in tempo to the beat. Somewhat angrily, then, I punched up another station that, while tending toward commercialism-the · car radio only receives AM stations-also, I remembered, played a fair selection of sounds. ~ onslaught. Until I went home for vacation in-December, I hadn't realized the scope of this. Soothed ·by the mellow sound of WFL Y on the radio and jolted by recordings of Billy Joel and Diana \The Queen\ Ross (one of my suitemates has rather bizarre musical tastes, I hadn't realized that Donna SUillll1er, the Village People and the other assorted disco personages had made their way to popular radio in such full force. The break between the fall d E an winter terms is different. ~ Lasting some three weeks, it ~ gives · plenty of time for ~ checking out old haunts and ~ reliving .p~st memories-be they o from all the way back in high o school or as recently as last if summer. The Disco Duck~Jimmy D. But not anymore. Disco there, too. And as Isweptthe dial from one end to the other, the same story got repeated time and again. They have. And no matter how long their stay, its effects are bound to be long-lasting and wide~reaching. Sodology majors should take particular note now; this is right up their alley. Are £uture generations of Having, by nature, a strong sense of the nostalgic, I look forward to this sort of thing. Appropriately enough, one of my most_ memorable meetings during this past vacation took place at a neighborhood bar. (You know, the kind of place where they don't ask for proof and you used. to go when you were in high school.) I went tbere with an old friend, who now is a student at a state college. · \Attending a small, secluded ·private instituion like Union has lots of advantages,\ she said. \But you might be too sheltered. During the time .. you spend there, you could forget that there's an outside world, where people think about things beside what courses to take and which fraterniiy parties to go to.\ Pulling into the driveway and turning off the radio, I was shaken. But I found solace in the hope that what I'd heard was _ only an isolated instance, a freak of the airwaves, so to speak. Maybe, I thollght, it's like the )Varewolf. Tile disco records only ·come out when there's .a fuU moon or something. But, again, not so. I h~d the same shattering experience the next day when I turned on the radio. A veritable inferno of disco, to borrow an expression. disco children going to walk to the beat of a tiny drummer pounding inside their heads? On an ordinary day will they be ''Blinded by the Light\ (now there's some real rock and roll for you; Bruce Springsteen always did seem to be able to speak ·for the soul of the masses} and make for the sparkle of those glitter balls that throw off flecks of light? More important, will Union soon open a School of Disco, with bachelor's degrees and the like, in direct competition with the Arthur Murray, Fred Astaire and other such established dance schools? I spent the remainder of the evening trying to convince him that he was wrong, that what happens on Union's 100-acre campus is relevant to outside life. He didn't say much in reply, so when we departed I felt I'd made my point. On the way home, though, I bad to change my mind. Tur- ning on the radio, I was astounded as the steady wail of a disco tune assaulted me. It's not that I don't like disco. In the proper situation, nothing's better. I've spent some of my most memorable moments boogying with an attractive female. Disco does have an alluring intensity about it. But most of the time-for instance, while driving home on a winter's night-it's just not appropriate. Even if I had become .infected New Year's Eve provided a sickening conclusion to my vacation. In an attempt to eliminate any possibility of the holiday being polluted by a ~sco intrusion, I spent the evening here at college. Believing~ was safe, tturned on the television to watch the celebration in New York City. I almost threw· up when, as midnight approached, the band broke into a disco version of \Auld Lang Syne.\ Aren't any traditions sacred? ~ All of this has led me to do some hard thinking. I spent a lot of days and nights sitting alone. Finally, I came to the realization that something had happened in the real world, outside the College gates, that I hadn't been aware of. The trend to disco-surely present this past summer, but hardly · of the magnitude to make it seem reasonable that it would not be snuffed out,. let I don't know. (If you care for a personal observation, I think that such sociological questions are pointless and that sociology is a joke major for students who like to pry into other people's business because their own lives aren't interesting enough.) lf they can, sociologists should try to answer these questions. It might give them something to do. Again, personally, just let me hear some of that rock and roll music. Take disco songs, where it either sounds li}Je the singer's having an orgasm or the whole band's operating a jackham- mer, depending on whether the beatis fast or slow, and return it to its natural environment: either in the jungle or at Studio 54 and the Rafters. _ But not on popular radio. As the title to a song made famous by Bob Seeger and his Silver Bullet Band-another legendary rock and roll band, hailing from Detroit, also the birthplace of the Motown Sound-goes, ''Rock and Roll Never Forgets.\ Let's not'forget it, either. Bits and Pieces of Steve Richards Dateline Schenectady, NY, Feb. 27: The long three week search for Union College Student Body President Steve Richards has ended. Richards was found today in the closet of 3rd floor Davidson South, 2nd floor North, 4th floor West and 34d floor Richmond, apparently the result of another drug related incident. Cliff Wood of the Union College security staff, along with the 12th Pet. of the Schenectady Police Depart- ment, are desperately trying to retrieve all the \parts\ of the ;: ~oey. ~ A new and valu~ble program has recently been initiated here at Union to }lelp graduates adjust to face the realities of the world outside of our iron bars. A three hoUr seminar is being offered in j jlookiilg like you're reading the Wall Street Journal,\ ''hllw not to wear Adidas with a 3-piece suit,\ \hoW to get out of bed at 7 a..m.; get to work at 8, and not wake up Wltn· 10,'' and perhaps most important, 'jhow to get' your ~ parents to continue paying the bills after you have a Randy Feldman, former ~ Vice-President and close friend ~ of Steve, was quoted as saying ~ \I knew lie was always trying to ~ be in too many places at once, f but I can see all sides of the story\. Rumor has it that Richards wanted to meet all the students of the college. job.\ Any information on this in- cident will be appreciated and operators are standing by, so can now-their legs are getting tired. In Schenectady, call 370- 6178. Out of town call collect. Elections are now being planned to replace Richards so come on all you potential candidates, get your petitions out--n()W available from Mrs. Marra in Student Activities.

OONOORDIENSIS, March, 1, 19'19 Pa~e 7 Find the U.C. Trustees in these picture ... .:: •DI L: 3; :~, ... f .>- .a 0 0 If Married And Distressed? The personal separation . service. Tired of the old sex partner? Contact APART, the personal divorce company. No computers, so don't worry about the Burroughs 6805 destroying your chances to find a new person to abuse in bed. Our hitmen are the best at what they do. They will personally see to your ex-loved one's. demise. To contact APART, call 370-43155. Look for Distorty at all take out counters. -~'. .l i; ~ ' ! ; ~- ~ ' ~- .. The snail, that creature of beauty and grace, is being threatened with extinction. Due to the brutality of man through his use of lawn mowers and ga.rden clippers, the gentle garden slug is fast decreasing in numbers. Picture a world -??- Contest Name the trustees in these pictures and win a trip to Cohoes Memorial Hospital Cohoes., N.Y. Answers wHI be irn the next year's Distorty. , Without snail~ and slugs--no· slimy wet trails up. walls, no slimy, slippery plump bodies clinging to plants. Is it fair to expect your childrel) to grow up never knowing the pleasure of snails crawling through their sandbox. What right do we have .. .J:. 0 L: ~ .. ~ >- .Q 0 0 If to deprive future generations of th~- aesthetic value of those friendly, harmless creatures-- the snails and slugs, because of our carelessness. So show that you care--write your congressman express.ing your support tor the Save the ;-· _/ Snails Campaign, and se1:1d your contribution to \Save the Snai:ls,\ P.O. Box 923, Salamanca, New York. Or QE!tter yet..,.·adtlpt a snai I of your own. They also make great gifts. Every child should know the pleasure of having a slug of their own.

9 \ •• ~ .• ~ 'I ~ • ., I • • • ~ • Pages OONOORDIENSIS. March 1~ 1979 Concordiensis Continued . • Presidential Candidates Cont. Important! Neville . •• Continued from page 1 perceives, Neville speaks ,of establishing at Union \a spirit of conununity with general agreement on where we are going.\ · He stresses that his personal \interest will lie in the academic area.\ Also, he claims to be aware of ''the fact hhat a President must be responsible for all of the college community--faculty, admini- strators as well as students.\ Neville emphasized his desire to be personally available always for the campus conummity, saying, \I would not be an external president-that does not fit my desires.\ .Since most of Neville's ex- perience has been gained at large universities, excepting his short-lived appointment at Claremont College, concern was expressed as to whether or not his training makes him a good choice for Union, with its small-school environment. Neville explained that his decision to leave Claremont College had been prompted by a decision of the administration there to run the school as a university, a design which ran counter to his desire to maintain its operation in a small-college vein. His experience at UMaine, he believes, has accustomed him Jo a small school at- mosphere. He points to the 8,000-member student body there, as he calls UMaine \a very large Union College.'' By his own admission, Dr. Morris. • • All on-campus ;persons needing a room change for Spring: Tertn must continued from page 1 negotiate w ilh the ' Housing Office prior to be pat1icularly usefUl and ef- 4:00 p.m. on March fecctive, ~ed ad~ed. U . , , 2nd. ons1 · ermg nton s !·L::=======::::==: fratermty system, which is r similar to the one at Colgate, ,. • Dr. Morris said h~'s \not op- posed to them as. such.\ However, they \must be responsive to the social needs of · both their members and the rest of the campus.\ In instances where violations are com- mitted, he said discipline would be reqUired. In addition to his present administrative duties at Colgate, Dr. Morris said that he . also teaches a course. He hopes to continue doing that if he becomes president here . \Union has areas it wouid like to improve in,\ he said. \It won't be easy. But the Dnly way to solve these issues it to get them out in the open where they can be discussed.'' 0 IJNION COUL6E P\JB REST AlJR.ANT Mountebanks There wil'l be a short General Meeting for all active. Moun- tebanks to approve .a . new constitution and elect officers. Sailing Club . There will be a . meeting for all those i•nterested in the Sailing Club Thursday, March 1 at: 7:30p.m. in Fox Lounge. ~-« c ~ENE.c.TAO'Y,N'(' UJ06 This Spring Term H()LLOW treat yourself to the good food served at the Dutch Hollow and at Hale House. Sign up now for both meal plans. Sign-up list ·iS availalbe in Angelo Mazzone's office this week and next week. Young Frankenstein March 2- 4 Fri. 10 p.m.; Sat. & Sun. 7. 9, & 11 p.m Attention,: All Students AU Staff Everybody!! Wanting to get i.llto shape For summer fun! We need interested people before we can plan a Weight Watchers chapter here on campus. Please call the Health Service (370-6120). . . Soon! . , Check out the Corner Pub. $1.50 Pitchers 65c Seagralfl's Seven Every Day 1648 Foster Ave. Schenectady When you have a foreign student live with you tOr a year. the world becomes mote than the evening news. For more information, write to: AFS In- ternational-Intercultural Programs, 313 E. 43rd St., N.Y., N.Y., 10017. . Or call toll free (800) 327-2777. In Florida (80\0·) 432-2766. AFS International Exchanges forh~h school students. We proV1d~ tHe students You proVIde the love Neville either was not knowledgeable on, or. had no plans for, some pressing campus problems. It was more than once that his initial response to a question was, \Well I don't really know how to answer that question., It seems a positive step towards resolving this shortcoming in his knowledge of Union College when Neville states, \If I were to come here, I would get to know the college as well as anyone in the first 6 months.\ '1.25· 5501 .-----------------;-EARN OVER$650 A MONTH· Typing Service 'RIGHT THROUGH YOUR It's Coming Next Terml only 554t pe-r page Cheryl Lucier 399-7614 & 8 1 1979 TOUGHEST JOB YOU'LL EVER LOVE. PEACE CORPS • VISTA A ~RIJ) VOLUNTEERS OF rn· SERVICE OPPORl'UNITY SENIOR INl'ERVIE:WS ~ March 7 & 8, 9 a to 5 p.m. Contact career Counseling and Placenent Office for ar:pointrnent. Special People ... People Who Care SENIOR YEAR. If you're a junior o:r senior majoring in sciences like math, physics-or engineering, the Navy has a program you should know about. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate- Collegiate Program ( NUPOC-C for short) and if you qualify, you can earn as much as $650 a month right through your senior year. Then after 16 weeks of, Officer Candidate School, you'll get an additional year of advanced technical education. This would cost thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy, wepay you. It isn't easy. There are fewer than 400 openings and only one of every six applicants will be selected. But if you make it, y<m'll .have unequaled hands·on responsibility, a $24,000 salary in four years, and gilt· edged qualifications for jobs both in the Navy andout. Ask your placement officer to set up an interview with a Navy representative when he visits the campus, or contact your Navy representative at 800-841-8000. or send in the coupon. The NUPOC·C Program. Not only can it help you complete college. It can be the tstart of an exciting career. ,..-----------·--'\1 N/\VY OI 1 I~CIUTt':-.JITY I JNVott~b\TIIlN n:NTEit I l•o Bwt.:!!llln Pt·lhnnt \1.il1•il, ~' lo!Xtt-1 I' :~·.~ ~t·~.·.i.~~·. ';'.''t.·;,·.~~·.·,~::'t~Otll I \lum•''- -,..------,,.......,--~-- , J Atlrln• .... _______ _ I I'IL\·~---~-~- \'uto• ltp•--- 1 ANt' T! ••lh·~-tl''l'iu\·•·r.,,r, __ _ I tfirJHhiult•m ll••••·--•lirmll' I'\\'''-' __ I &.Mol)m·J\.1tnur I l'h~>lll' ~umlw:r---,..---,--~-- •. CNP~'li '----·---...-------··-· . NAVY OFFICERS . GET-RESPONSIBILITY FAST~ an Nc by1 ''The-Ho to be perf~ melange mischiet, smorgast delights, il side by ,si< Sans Sond and the siJ the sluggi first blue1 fiddle to tl the ensen wh-at a \'Robber I be: light, and just enough to teferto as experienc' myself fin may spea \The I was adap Eudora~ Uhry (bo AI MUSIC For the March, t andFril:m host: S soprano,< piano, ¥J on piano, Baytelma 15th. The Thursday p.m. in tl Performi.J Empire ~ her info1 Happel SUNY A, held in : Center: March Music Co \1\\Iarch Recital, Kutchuk company Kastle. March Concert, and Im Brickma1 March SymphoiJ Arts Yo Main Tb For fu 457-8608. Being: Music D will be: March ElectrOJ Recital 1 March soprano piano, 8: March piano, 8: Maret Coalitio11 Concert; Marc Quartet, March p.m., P~ · March Band,8: March munity Mainn For fl 457-8606. OnM SUNY A Univers present . will be I vocalist will be I ·sUNY A ticket irl

I OONOORDIENSIS, March 1, 1919 Page 9 culture Nott To Be Missed by TODD MILLER \The-Habber Brid~groom\ is to be perfect~y frank, a bucolic J' . • • th melange f.il music, mtr , mischiet, and malice; a tasty smorgasbord of theatrical delights, if you will, .proferrirtg side by ,side (though regretful, Sans Sondheim), the sensuous and the sinister, the suave and the sluggish. Indeed from the first bluegrassy scrape of. the fiddle to the last exultant cry of the ensemble, the musical is what a musical like the \Robber Bridegroom\ ought to be: light, frothy, tuneful, fast, and Just a touch perverse, enough to arouse what I like to refer to as ''the candied wink of experience.\ (For reasons I myself find somewhat silly, if I may speak parenthetically.) \The Robber Bridegroom\ was adapted from a novel by Eudora Weltz by Mrs. Alfred Uhry (book and, lyrics) and Robert Waldman (music). For the as yet uninterested, it takes place in the town gf Rodney, Mississippi at or around 1 ?95 (ironically, the year that Umon was charted as a college)jt is essentially a Plantene comedy set to music, replete with braggarts, buffoons, con men, cowards, mistaken identities, a healthy dose of unabashed lust and l()ts of singing and falling about ending in a marriage of sorts. Basically it concerns James Lorkdart's obsession with the old Clement Mjr- sgrove's millions; his somewhat odd relationship with th'e sultry Rosamond Musgr'ove's daughter ~ let's put it this way, there's a lot going en in this baby. Kudos all around: John Rose• s char.acterization of James Lorkhart, the kinky cutpurse, is a delight,, the ruby- throated Verna Lowe lS flawless . as Rosamond; Sharon Rubin, a Area Calendar MUSIC For the rest of the month of March, the Findlay Cockrell and Friends Concert Series will host: Sylvia Kutchukian, soprano, and Leonard Kastle o.n piano, Mji.tch lst; Paula Enms on piano, March 8th; and Pola Baytelman on piano, March 15th. The series is being run on Thursdays at 11:45 and at 12:30 p.m. in the Recital Hall of the Performing Arts Center of the Empire State Plaz~. For fur- her information call 457-6977. Happening this month at SUNY A, these events will be held in the Performing Arts Center: March 1, 8 p.m.-Electronic Music Concert, Recital Hall. '1darch 2, 8:30 p.m.-Voice Recital, Recital Hall. Sylvia Kutchukian will he ac- companyied by pianist Leonard Kastle. March 3, 8:30 p.m.-Piano Concert, Recital Hall. ''Music and Imagery\ by Miriam Brickman. March 4, 3 p.m.--Albany Symphony .. Albany League of Arts Y oqth A. wards Concert, Main Theatre. For further information call 457-8608. - Being sponsored by SUNY A's Music Department this rm;mth will be: March 1-Morton Subotnick, Electronic Music, 8 p.m., Recital Hall. March 2-8ylvia Kutchukian; soprano; Leonard Kastle, piano, 8:30 p.m., Recital Hall. March 3-Miriam Brickman, piano, 8:30 p.m., Recital Hall. March 6--Jewisn Student Coalition, Music Department Concert;7: 30 p.m., Recital Ha~l. March 11--Alexandna Quartet, 3 p.m., Recital Hall. March 16-Waverly Consort, 8 p.m., Page Hall. · March 17-8ymphonic Concert Band, 8:30p.m., Main Theatre. March 20-University Com- munity Orchestra, 8:30 p.m., Main Theatre. For further information call 457-8606. On March 6th at 8 p.m. the SUNY A Feminist Alliance and University Concert Boat·d . will present Holly Near. Joining her . will be pianist. J ~ T. Thomas and vocalist Liz Kirk. ·The con~ert will .be held at Page Hall on. the ·suNYA downtown.campus. For ticket mforimitlon. call 438-3717. THEATRE March 1-Herman Melville's Moby Dick will be staged Thursday, March 1 through Saturday, March 3 with shows . at 8 p.m. The play will be performed in the new auditorium of the New York· State Museum. For further info call 4364934. .MOVIES Did You See That Movie will present Greta Garbo and John Gilbert in the 1933 masterpiece,- Queen Christina. Screenings will be on Friday and Saturday evenings at 9 p.m., March 2 and 3 in Auditorium One of the Capit~l District Psychiatric Center, 75 New Scotland Ave., Albany. On Friday and Saturday, March 9 and 10 at 9 p.m., see Peter Lorre an~ C~lin Clive in Mad Love. Thts f1lm will also be screened in Auditorium One. For further information call 436-7372. HAPPENINGS At RllSsell Sage College for the rest of the month: March 5-Lecture, ''Guerilla Tactics in the Job Market,\ by Tom Jackson,. national authority on jobs and job fin- ding. 7:30 p;m., Bush Center. Free. March 7-Folk Guitarist-Bill Crofllt, 8 p.m., Bush Center. Admission: $1.50 student& with ID, $2 .general admission. March 8-Philosophy Forwn: \The illusion of Technique,\ with William Barrett, Professor of Pbilosophy at New York ·University and author of two books, \The Illusion of Technique\ and \Irrational Man,\ a classic in existen- tialism. 7:30 p.m., Kellas Lounge. Free. March 8-Gallery Opening: Stage Designs by Charles Steckler of Union Colleg_e. Exhibit will continue through March 23 at the New Gallery, Schacht Fine - Arts Center. Hours on opening day are 4 to 6 p.m. Regular ho~s: 9 a.m . ..S p.m., M9nday-Fnday and 2-5 p.m. Sunday. li'ree. · 'March 9-Film: \The Beatles in C(lncert,\ 8 p.m., Schacht Fine Arts Center,. $1.50 ad- mission. Continued on page 10 fine dramatic actress proves her performing versatility in the demanding comic role of the deliciously diabolical Salama~. Tom Farrell's Musgrove . 1s properly and simultaneously the harried husband, concerned father conniver and coward whose comedic timing is un- cannily smooth. George Ward Little Harp shines, com- plementing Chuck Sommer's head's up performance as Big Ha~p; Barry Symonds Goat is hysterical (listen for a wierd vocal flip during a duet with Ward), as are the performances turned · in by Demetra Pon- ttskos (Goat's mother) and Natalie Barandes, wht;~se Radneresque Aerie is un- believably funny. Oh, and Nina Stengel's a Raven (as they say, a bird in the hand ... ). The music is just fine; the mood is country~the per- formances are uniformly ex- cellent. Don't miss it! Images Of Women by GARY GLAUBER There is little doubt as to the existence of social problems at- Union College. If you dispute the validity of this statement, try to talk about it with others. The social life here is not nor- mal, thoug~ the degrees of deviance from the norm vary greatly. Social interaction is not encouraged and students often get caught up in immature role- play situations. These attitudes are prevalent at the parties given each weekend. The frustration at this social stagnancy only leads to a continual cycle .and changes never seem to come about. Every few years some students write a letter to the editor that causes a big brouhaha for awhile and provides vicarious entertainment for those who have resigned themselves to lives of social indifference. The results are the sangfroid students who boldly- proclaim that college is for the work anyway. Alibis and rationalize and ostracize. It's a vicious cycle, the rut is deep and it's going to take more than a slight nudge to wake this gia.nt sleeping monster from 1ts convenient social slwnber. As these · days of pluckless dor- mancy seem to float into one another, the mistake of seeing things at Union as normal, fine and dandy is often made. It's high time that somebody screamed us all into growing up and seeing. Socially,.we cannot see the forest for the trees. The time has come for yet another valiant attempt at social resolution. This time, however, the effort is a very strong one. Its aims are not merely limited to Union itself, nor does it seek to pointlessly complain · without reform or alternative. This positive redress of social abuses is, in fact, a major project presently in progress, involving a number of Union College people and headed by assistant professor of the arts Nina teCler~. The project seeks to develop \a multi-disciplinary approach to the images of women in our society,\ dealing with im- portant social issues of our time through the use of various art mediums including photography and the, writt~n word. Still i,n the formative stages, this collaborative effort looks positively enthusiastic. Professors froin several departments in both the humanities and sciences are contributing their ideas and efforts. The bulk of the photographic display will be handled by the creative impettis of five Union students: Claire Kenneay, Beth Dorogusker, Hans Heilman, Amy Kloner, and Michele Beaulieu. All are presently searching out various issues to be dealt with photographically in line with their ongoing ex- tensive research and reading. Fears that the project will amount to little more than a feminist forUill. are ill-foUr.J.ded. All of the students see that there is more than one single dilemma to be handled by their project. ''People today have misconceptions, they just aren't aware of how they function as sexual beings,\ says par- ticipant Amy I<:loner. \~or are they aware of how much society controls their sex roles through conditioning.'' A. perfect example of that conditioning is being examined by Hans Heilman. He is presently delving into ·'how television appeals to the male fantasy\ with such shows as ··Charlie's Angels.\ He intends to provide a photographic expose of society's power to unrealistically portray the images of male aggression and hostility. A strong emphasis . will be placed on the social strait- jacket of sexual roles. Society's limited provisos and op- portunities discriminate against both sexes, whether one is talking about career choices or only the simple expression of emotions. The fact is that we do fall into these conditioned roled, often without even realizing that fact. Hopefully, this project will provide the educational enlightenment for a recognition of the problems and possibly a means towards future change. To force people out of their ruts is no easy deal. Yet thi::; project appears to be going all out to ach'ieve success. An I.E.F. proposal has been made for help with this project, stressing the importance orthe issues at hand and the necessity for funding to cover effective publicity, graphic, frame and paper costs. The issues are so very importCUit. At Union the issues have been brewing a slow social storm without ever coming to the fore. Reiterative complaints are solUlded year after year. The problems are all around us- staid attitudes without the pressure for change. Union still seems to operate as \a male school with females\ rather than as a true coeducational institution. For a further key, just look at the facu1ty ratios. Th~ time for change is now and the pressure for change can be exerted through awareness. Without the awareness, the change is far from inevitable. Ignorance translates into in- difference and inaction. This ambitious project seeks to make people aware on a wide-scale basis. By striving to give art a real meaning here at Union, this project takes on additional significance at another level. But by striving to provide perspectives of awareness that hope to change the aftermath of our social lives, this project attains a status of major . proportions. Can the people be reached and be made aware? It is a Iarg1 hope and a noble effort. If yot are interested in helping thi::. project in any way, please contact Prof. LeClerc. She is eager for your ideas on the issues and for any help you can offer towards the success or thi· ·project. · After all, complaining ; ·as~ but change requires eiirlrt Union's socia\ problems ma~ not be solved in a day or e\ en a year. Without this project, the) may not ever be acknowledged. Change is needed. And a kiss of reality likethis would surely be a nice way to start. Student Forum Meeting this Thursday, March 1 at9:00 p.m. in Hale House Dining Room The F=orum win discuss tl:le Governance Report--all students are encouraged io attend.

Page 10 BULLETIN BOARD Seniors interested in orgamzmg the Senior Fling, . please see Mrs. Marra in the . Student Activities Office. Kosher Kitchen iso£fering a 4~ day meal plan for Passover., · April 9-12, 3 meals-day-$50 .. · Money is due March 15 at Kosher Kitchen. For further . information, cal:l 377-7831. Federal Career Entry Examination This is a reminder that the filing period for the Professional and Administrative Career Examination {PACE) ends Thursday, Feb. 22, 1979. PACE is the examination through which a broad range of Federal jobs at grades Gs-5 and GS-7 . · are filled. Starting salaries are $10,507 for GS-5 jobs and $13,014 · for GS-7 jobs. To qualify, in addition to passing the written test, ap- plicants must have three y.ears experience or a bachelor's degree. Opportunities are especially good in the New York region and throughout the country for candidates with bilingual · ability, particularly those with ' fluence in Spanish and English. · Interested persons should call or visit their college placement office or a Federal Job Infor- mation Center to obtain an • application for the written test (CSC Form 5000AB). Federal Job Information Centers. are · listed in the telephone direc- tories under \U.S. Govern- ment.\ The Middle States Association Drafting Committee dealing with Programs Beyond the Traditional Four Years wishes to announce an open meeting to be held Wednesday, March 8, at 4:30 p.m. in Hwnanities 115. Members of the community (students, faculty, and staff) are invited to attend for the purpose of contributing to the committee information and opinions concerning graduate, evening undergraduate, and continuing education at Union. Written cotnments are also welcome; they may be sub-- mitted to Professor Jan Lud- wig, Philosophy Department, Htunanities Building. Sternfeld Pdze Competition The Philosophy Department invites members of the Senior Class to submit essays in the annual competition for the Milton Hymes Sternfeld Prize given \for the best original essay ·in philosophy by a member of the senior class.\ The author need not be a philosophy major. Entries should be submitted, pseudonymously, to Ms. Wind- stone in Humanities 212 no later than April2, 1979. Give only the pseudonym on the paper itself, but put your name in an ac- companying envelope bearing the pseudonym. Essays will be judged by the Philosophy Department faculty. The Sternfeld Prize is a rnonetary award and will be presented during Prize Day ceremonies Saturday, May 5, 1979. Questions relating to this competition may be directed to Professor Ludwig, extension 6214. ATTENTION: Dr. 'sigmund LeMoose from the Laotian Psychoanalytic Institute wfll be holding a colloquium entitled \The use of the Laotian Moose in · psychological ex- CONOORDIENSIS, March 1, 1919 PERSONALS perimentation.\ The evening should be very interesting and intellectually stimulating. Topics to be discussed will include how the moose could replace other common ex- perimental animals such as mice, dogs and monkeys; the cost availability and shipping problems associated with the use of the Laotian moose in ex:perimentation in the U.S.A.; the size and complexity of the mooSe's brain and its similarities to the human brain; arid how the moose could be used in operant conditioning experiments and if the moose . could fir in the aver~ge size Skinner box. What could be the highlight of the talk is when Dr. LeMoose discusses his new theory of the psychosexual development of ~he Laotian moose. The lecture will be held in Strauss Lounge March 15 at 4:30. Don't miss this one. Miss S.: ''Isn't mathematics . wonderful? ! \ Miss R. B. Babes: Be nice to me-l . have some dangerous pictures! Roommate No. 2 ·- \Mary Mary quite contrary how does your garden grow?\ \With Annabelles and Bruc- clesbells and little Turqu6ises all in a rowP' HEY BRADEN! I miss you. I promise to write when things get a little less hectic-! have IDTS of news. Love, A Friend Scott-Next time, if you'll bend down, I'll pat YOU on the head!--The Stern Nnr- : theasterner To all those interested in psychology: The new Chapter of Psi Chi, the psychology Honor Society, is sponsoring a Wine and Cheese Get-together on Friday, March 2 from 3 to 5 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Everyone interested is welcome. Come and find out more about us! The Housing Committee would like to remind aU organizations that no bills are to be posted directly on walls. Bulletin boards, doors, tiling and windows are to be used for this purpose. Any organization, group or individual wha fails to comply will be subject to fines. Phyl-No grey hair, just best • wishes for the future. Happy Birthday.-The Heartbreak Kid Scott--What th.e hell's a Tarheel? NJG: Thank you for bein~ you-I love you! 1\iGB SCP: Your head is out of your · .annpit. Feel better? Thanks fo.r your friendship.-The Singing Snob Taryn: That stuff you gave me Monday was wild! Where can I get some more? WASP Laura: Let's not forget to prepare for our \dateu Spring term! Adam Did you know that over ten Stephanie: We're the. fools, million babies have suffered standin' close enough to touch from malnutrition and star- those burning memories, Let's :vation since American cor- · forgetthe Way We Were. and not porations · have begun ·. prey on each other's minds! Be marketing bottle baby formula , happy-without me. IS(?) Y in third world countries? Come .K;;..how about a weekend with to a public meeting and view the . the gang sometime?-8PC&M shocking film, Bottle Babies, Monday, March 5 at 7:30 in .· , SS016. Hear Mr. Fred Clarkson · M.U.H., Three and -a half of Clergy and Laity Concerned . weeks until Florida! ! speak on the topic. Ruffer, Pam and Non, Explorer Post 909 is under the . auspices of Union College and the college-sponsored radio ' station, WRUC90.9 F .M. We are under tl;le supervision ··of Dr. John Sowa, professor of Chemistry at Union College. Our present advisors are Jim Walsh, Andy Faber, and Lisa DeLuca, all station members and students at Union. Every' Saturday we have out own music show from 5 p.m.-8 p.m. Three of our members do music shows, while another three do a twent:'l minute news show at 6:20 during this time slot. The others may work in production (making station promotion spots) and-or- do other station duties, We also meet bi-monthly Monday nights, to plan future activities. For example, we are presently planning an open house on March 10. We will be giving station tours and an- swering any questions you may have. Refreshments wfi1 be served. We are also working on an exhibition for Expo '79 to be held at Schenectady County Airport. Part of our plans in- clude a Post 909 record hop, with members playing some of your favorite tunes, explaining what it means to be a disc jockey, and how we feel about doing it. We will also explain how it is done. Exploring is co-ed a,nd open to all high school students. We play everyth~ng from. progressive to pOpular rock, and soul to avant garae jazz. Listen to us-5.,8 p.m. on Satur- day and hear what we're all about. Melbourne our Bust. M.J.H., Why???--and then what would you do if . . . Hey Shark, we miss the slumber parties. The nuts in 255. Non., thanks for N.R.RQ., s.s. ' M.B.2 and BOOBOO, we will survive, GROOT. MBB had any super tocos lately? Boo Boo, nice bun at the parfy last week!! Lisa: Whhyyy? Fran-How many times have I told you not to extrapolate in front of me?-The President Cary-Just because, uhh, the, uhhh, personal didn't get in, uhhh, last week, doesn't, Uhhh, necessarily. mean, llhh, that i wouldn't, try, uhhh, a second time.-Guess Who? Fran-I'll try again this week- -Tbanx for being you;-- MC-No I'm not always in a bad mood or always sarcastic- only when I go to Xprated movies-The Ex-smoker MC-Hope You Liked Your Surprise-6-28 Gary-Doesn't 'he look a lot like, you know. Schneider? There will he an informal meeting of The newly created Marc B-Fat Shit, f(Jrget Extrapolators Club Sunday nite , about the beach this summer- in the All-Nite Study.- 9:00 pm .. Sgt. Anon Donny D.; Florida in only three weeks--hang on. Skeeter-if you can, answer A- LS-•come on, ''CRAZY. . GUY\ do another split. · Please!??? Hi! t B~HeUo! • C-Good Evening:! Lee- I really•have to go now . . . The Twilight Zone is now taking reservations for t~is . coming weekend for any m· terested boarders if interested please contact Bullet; Rob, Skeeter, . or CT--STILL PLENTY OF ROOM LEFT FOR PARENTS WEEKEN- D!!!!! Fran--You should~ start sewing n31J1e labels in your LS-I sure am glad. your mother taught you now to Say please !l ·the other obnmtiou$ , person that uses the ph~ne once · in awhile too! !-D LS-Uh, Mr. Trainer ... Ub, what's wr.o11g witb me • . • uh, uh, somethin~. just ain't right! who else gloves. , I..S-Oh m>, l'm out of Woolite! · • · Help, . help~. who~s got , some SM--Have anothe·r cream • Woolite, Quick! yours truly puff--crazy guy Skater's season ••• Continued from page 12 Union played extremely well for the first two period of this game against. the powerful warriors of Merrimack, and taking a look back a week at the fine game they played against' Division II leading Lowell, it is evident that with some strong recruiting, the Dutchmen are not far from being a Division II playoff hopeful. The team ended it's season last night in · Achilles Rink against Division I Colgate. It was the last game for senior Captain's Mike O'Connell and' Dean Mathewson. ·Both O.'Connell and Mathewson deser.ve hearty congratulations for their hustle, hard work and supreme athletic ability. Through sheer· effort and pride they persevered through all the hard times that Union hockey has undergone. -- Their presence on and off the ice will :be sorely missed by not · only the Union Hockey t~am but the· entire campus as well. ·Area calendar ... Continued from page 9 March 14-Comedy Theatre:. . \Catch a Rising Star,\ 8 p.m., Bush Center. Admission: $1.50 students With ID. $2 general admission. March 16, 17, 18, 21, 22, 23- Russell Sage College Musical Production: \Pippin 8 p.m. at the Little Theater. $1.75 for students with ID ~d senior citizens. $2.75 general ad- . mission. Tickets available at the door; reserved tickets by phonmg 270-2263. March 19-Speaker: Joseph M. Curtin, Vice-President for Public Affairs, \The Art of Giving,\ at noon at the Troy Club, Congress and First Streets, Troy. Reservations one week in advance are required. Sponsored by the Alumnae Office of Russell Sage College. Phone 270-22&4 . This month at . the Junior College of Albany:. · March m-Careers Fair: The Third Annaal Art Careers Fair. 7-10 p.m. at the' JCA Gym March 14-Irisb Day: Music and stories featuring Martha Ranney and Finola Daly, students; and Sue Hegney, faculty mernber. 2-4 p.m. at the Perk-U-Later Coffee House, JCA Student Center. , - . Conthn'lling Exhibit-,; Photographs by-.Jane Hartney. Monday through friday from 1 to 5:30p.m.., Rathbone Gallery. Exhibit win continue until March 18. For information call 270-2344, . A short phone call can save you a lot of long dista11ces. TRI-CITY FOREIG'N A\UTQ PARTS . 1566 STATE STREET SCH-ENECTADY, N. Y.12301 (518} 370-5695 Complete Line Of Foreign Auto .Parts And Accessories ' Do you have: perfo~ming a suffermg from . nights due to tl 'sit around unti · tells you that it out? Well, YOI · been solved by • the Union Coli and Center fOI Friday evening Dance Club is ! five minutes • beauty, of pow emotion in the dance perf01 charge, by th Dancers. This • held at 7:30 p.: and before the will be presenl Joy, who is f College, will 1 two others. Sa1 of Canton, Chill candidate at t Julia Davis is c: at the colleg began training at Princeton she is now dancing as an 1 has a particul; development o arts at Union formal discip ballet as ; Schenectady. If you share for the arts 1 Dance Club Movement, tl Tra by MARK and ALl This past team travel Invitationals teams (inc Plattsburg a and emerged points. Witl members c' coach Chu phasized that this meet c portunity fo qualifying til meet (which Union on Ma the Division pionships. J<: With the win ~ Union's dept athletespostt of the seasor Inthe55yd Blum w<>n wi1 Blum, who h~ Winter chief! IC4A's was ·

: ~ I OONOORDIENSIS, .March 1, 1979 Page 11 Around Campus . ' Memb~rs 0.f Union Dance Club and Center for M~vement during practice. · • Dance Do you have a passion for the performing arts? · Are you suffering from ennui on Friday nights due to the fact that you · sit around until your rear end · tells you that it is \time\ to go out? Well, your problem has been solved by none other than the Union College Dance ·Club and Center for Movement. On Friday evening, March 9th, the Dance Club is sponsoring forty- five minutes of splendor and beauty, of powerful and violent emotion in the form of modern dance performed 'free of · charge, by the Joy Vrooman Dancers. This exhibition will be · held at 7:30 p.m. (after dinner and before the skellar), and it will be presented in Arts 202. . Joy, who is from Connecticut College, will be dancing with two others. Sat Hon is a native of Canton, China, and is an MFA - candidate at Connecticut, and Julia Davis is an undergraduate at the college. Joy, herself, began training in modern dance at Princeton University, and she is now continuing her dancing as an MFA student. She has a particular interest in the development of the performing arts at Union College as her formal discipline began with ballet as a resident of Schenectady. If you share in Joy's concern for the arts at Union, at the Dance Club and Center for Movement, then ignite your evening with the tremendous vitality .of this cultural event. M.ath Lect:ures Professor Hartley Rogers Jr. of M.I.T., is well known as a researcher in · the field of Mathematical Logic and as an expository speaker. Recently he has turned his attention towards undergl'aduate education 'in statistics. His first talk, \Physical World vs. Mathematical World: The Laws of Large Numbers\ will deal with a link between statistics and logic, and is being given as part of the Senior Seminar in Mathematics. The talk will be given Monday evening, March 5 at 8:00 in SS012'. His second talk, offered as part of the Freshman Preceptorial series of lectures, will be given on Tuesday evening, Marcl=t 6 at~ 7:30 in BU204. It is entitled \Physical World vs. Mathematical World: Some Examples\ ·and\ is designed for a general audience (Math 10 is not assumed). The general public is invited to both lectures. Orientation The Orientation Program has risen once again. Orientation Committee '79 bas come into being and the preliminary ground-work is now being laid. It is the hope and expectation of aH committee members to expand and build upon last year's program. For Orientation to be a true · success, however, it needs • active backing and par- ticipation from faculty, ad- ministration and particularly students. A freshman's initial perception of Union's academic and soCial atmosphere is a direct result of the e¥ents and · people he or · she meets those first tew days. Involvement in the program as an Orientation Advisor (OA) is a rewarding experience and a great time! We hope everyone will apply. Those students going on spring terms abroad will be able to pick up· applications for Orientation Advisor on March 2, in. the Student Development Office (Carnegie Hall). These will be due back on March 7, at which time applicants· may sign up for interviews on March 9. Applications for all other students. will be available the . ·first week of spring term. . Orientation '79 is underway! Coffeehouse COFFEEHOUSE! ! ! That's right - this Friday evening at 8:30 p.m. Union College COf- feehouse will present BILL STAINES in the Old Chapel. Presently from the Boston area, Bill has performed at many area coffeehouses, and also here at Union last spring. His · repertoire includes both original folk tunes and favorites of many popular folk artists. This should prove to be a fan- t~stic evening ._ not only for your ears, but also for your stomach!! A mere $1.00 ad;. mi-ssion entitles you to all the coffee, tea, lemanade and donuts you can consume. And don't forget the Irish Coffee!!! That's Friday night, March 2 at 8:00 p.m. in Old Chapel. And if anyone \is interested in working at future Coffeehouses, please sign your name on the list in the Student Activities Office. Thank you and see you there! ! ! Track Wins RPI Invite by MARK CKADURJIAN and ALLAN MOLHO This past Sattirday track team travelled to the RPI Invitationals where it faced 13 teams (including Colgate, Plattsburg and Buffalo State) and emerged victorious with 110 points. With only 14 team members competing, Union coach Chuck James em- p~asized that he was looking at th1s meet chiefly as an op- portunity for people to post qualifying times for the state rneet (which is to be held at Union on March 17) as well as the Division I indoor cham- Pi?nships .. James was suprised Wtt~ the win and said once again Umon's depth was crucial. Six athletes posted their best efforts of the season. B In the 55 yd high hurdles, Matt lum won with a time of 7.0 sec. B~um, who has been training all wmt~r chiefly for this week's IC4A s was followed by Marc Nazon (7.2 sec.). Ed Dingman won the 50 yd dash in 5.5 sec. relying on his quick start to reign victorious in the finals. Jim Zalucki cleared 13ft. in the pole vault, good for third place. In the high jump, Cliff (the Pimp) Rodgers made 6 ft. 4 1 12 in. (while barely missing 6 ft. 61f:! in.) and right behind him was Dave Cozzens, returning from a fractured ankle to finish in third place with a leap of 6 ft. 4 in. · In tile long and triple jumps, Sophomore Henry Wright proved that he may be the heir ap~ parent to present triple jump Union rewrd holder Earl Chilton. Wright jumped 20 ft. 61!2 in. fol\ a second in the 1 long jumpand a season's best 44ft. 7 in. for third in the triple jump. Meanwhile, Chilton himself remained unbeaten in his specialty witha 47ft. 4 in. jump, whic!I was a new RPI Invitational record, Captain Kevin Scheuer won both the mile (a meet record, 4: 17.2) and the 100 yd. run (2:17.4) with ease. In addition to the IC4A meet, ScheUer bas set his sights on the Division I outdoor nationals to climax an out- standing season. Finally, despite the horrible rig ex- perienced by \Mast a don\ Chilton, the rest of the mile relay team (Scheuer, Dingman and Peter Vielkind) took up the , slack to finish second in 3:35.7. Next week the team will be split: Scheuer (mile), Vielkind (880 yd.) Chilton (triple jwnp), Blum (55 yd. hurdles) an.d Matt Guilfoyle ( 440 yd.) will compete in the prestigious IC4A meet at Princeton, while the rest of the team wiil participate 'in the Capital District Invitational at· RPI. The follo~ing week Union will host its own invitational at . the Memorial ]field House. Bottle Babies Over the past eight years, over ten million babies in Asia, Africa and Latin America have suffered from diarrhea, malnutrition, brain damage and many have died. Why'? Because large corporations. specifically . the Nestles corporation, in- troduced baby formula into these developing countries. The effects of this introduction of bottle 'baby formula have been disastrol:ls, yet these cor- porations refuse to discontinue extensive sales promotions in these countries .. They have sent in \milk nurses\ who are in actuality saleswomen without medical training dressed in '-lUlrses' uniforms. These ''milk nurses\ give new mothers two weeks free sample ofthe formula. By the end of the two weeks, the . mothers are no longer able to reswne nursing . The worst part is that the products cannot possibly be used properly by these mothers. Infant formula in poor coWltries can cost up to 60 percent of the family incomes, mothers are forced to dilute it-and babies starve. A public meeting sponsored by various Union College student organizations in con- junction with the Sociology Department will be held Monday evening March 5 at 7:30- p.m. in S.S. 016 to discuss the issue of corporate responsibilty concerning health products in third world countries. The highlight af the evening · will be a film entitled Bottle Babies which. was directed by Peter Krieg in Kenya in 1975. The main speaker . for the evening will be Mr. Frederick Clarkson, Infant Formula Campaign Coordinator for CALC. CALC, Clergy and Laity Concerned, is an ecumenical organization that originally formed to oppose the Vietnam War. co.ver Design UNION BOOK is laoking for ccmtributions of artwork, literature- prose, poetry, etc. - photography and a COVER DESIGN. The editors will be in the Union Book room (third floor of Carnegie Hall) on Thursday evening, March 1 (that's tonight) at 7:00 p.m. to disc~JSS the cover of this year's book. The general theme of the book is the transitions we make through each year (fall to winter to spring) and .from the beginning to the end of our college career. The cover may or may not reflect this theme - any and all suggestions are more than welcome. So come on up tonight with your ideas, or if you want to help with any other aspect of the book. See you there. . . k~r~ PREPARE FOR: 41st] MCAT ·BAT • LSAT • OMIT -~ liRE • OCAT • VAT • SAT Flexible Programs & Hours flllere IS a differen&~d!! Albany Center fM ll 163 Delaware Ave. .,. NTl. Del rnar · IIV'I phone ( SlS) 439 _ 8146 EOUCA TIONAL CENTER TEST PREPARATION SPECIAliSTSSINCE 1938 Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223-1782 Centers In Major US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland 5port5 Jumper Earl Chilton

Page 12 OONOORDIENBIS, March 1, 1'9\19 ~ - ~ 1 0 0 if a porte Cagers End With Victory by JIM COMBS The men's varsity hoop team 'beat Rochester but dropped games to Babson and Tufts over the past week. The Dutchmen are now 9:-15; winning just 2 out of 14 games on the road this year. Union is 7-3 at home. Last Tuesday against 'Rochester the Garnet avenged an earlier 7 point defeat by whipping the Yellowjackets 73- 62. In the game, Union built a one point halftime lead to 10 after the first 10 minutes of the sec'Ond half and were never seriously threatened the rest of the way. The game was a classic foul-plaguet,, ragged contest. The two teams com- mitted a total of 59 fouls and 40 turnovers. There were also 72 free hrow attempts. Joe Cardany led the way with 17 points while Greg Sobocinski added 10. Superb in reserve roles again were Chris Walsh and Mike Canning; both chipping in with 8 points. Friday night at Babson, Union was ahead of the Beavers by 8 points most of the first half, but the torrid shooting of Babson ( 20-33 from the £ield for the game) finally caught up with the Dutchmen. Mike Canning kept the game close with 10 points in the last 11 minutes, b!lt Union could get no closer than 2 points and wound up on the short end of a 56-50 decision. Cardany and Sobocinski each meshed 13 points. Saturday, Joe Cardany clicked on his first 10 field goal attempts and finished the night with a career high 21:1 points and freshman Jim McGhee added 14 points and 10 camms but the Jumbos of Tuft's had a rather easy time posting a 93-76 win. The Dutchmen wrapped up their season with a home game against RPI on Tuesday. It was the final appearance for .seniors Steve Abba and Greg Sobocinski. On Tuesday nig·ht at Memorial Fieldhouse before a vociferous. crowd, the Union Basketball team, 9·15, over- whelmed the RPI Engineers, 2° 21, by a score of 87-()9. Both on paper and on the court, the Garnet overmatched and out- J.V. Hoopers End~~ 8-4 The Union JV hoop team continued to roll with two very gratifying victories this week. They beat Division I Siena and Albany Junior College, who will be trying for the National Junior College Championships in Nebraska next week. These two victories raised their final overall record to 8-4. On Tuesday, February 20, Union hosted Siena College and averaged an early season loss at the hands of the Indians. It was a very close game, as Union was in control 41-39 at half and 64-6llate in the second half, but the Dutchmen put together a timely final surge and soundly defeated the Indians 92-77. The Junior Dutchmen played without the services of Mike Canning and Jeff Peters but showed their depth as Bill Curtin, John Saccocio and Arzel Steans filled in at the guard position. High scorers for the Junior Dut- chmen were Joe Uvegas, with 29 points, and Bruce Jakie!, who threw in 21. Last Thursday Union was entertained by Albany Junior College. The tournament-bound Sabres were hoping to even the season series with Union. They had suffered an 1(}()-83 loss earlier in the season at Memorial Fieldhouse. Union was hurt by foul trouble as both Bruce Jakiel and Joe Uvegas both had three fouls early in the first half and were kept on the bench. The Junior Dutchmen used a patient offense and hit some key outside shots to beat a tough Sabre zone and at half- time they went to the locker room tied at 32. In the second half the Dutchmen started to run the ball and maintained a 7 point lead throughout the rest of the game, winning 74-68. Union was sparked in the second half by Bruce Jakiel who scored 20 of his game high 22 points. Seth Mendelowitz threw in 15 and Bill Curtin and Joe Uvegas chipped in with 11 points and some key assists. Sports Quiz Name the Union swimmer who liolds the Foote Pool record in the 400 yd. Ind. Medley? SL61 U! ~·ss :r Ae~esse~ sueA3 .se104:>!N played RPI in the season's grand finale. In the first half, Ed Meyer of RPI ripped the nets in the first three minutes hitting on 4 of 4. When Union switched from a zone defense to man-to-man, the Garnet quickly took control of the game. In the first half, guard Joe Cardany, wbose sel:!sonal average is 18.5 points per game, led Union scorers with 20 .points; Greg Sobocinski added 12·. The first half closed out with Union ahead by a wide margin of 51-39. In the second half Union continued to pour it on and eventually won, 87'-69. Joe Cardany finished wit11 a game high of 28, while ItPI's Ed Meyer finished with a seasonal high of 24. On a sentimental note, this being the final game of the season, seniors Steve Abba (co- captain) and Greg Sobocinski finished out their college ~ , careers. Abba, who is highly touted for his all-out hustle, scored 7 points. Sobocinski, whose average before the game was 11.9, tallied 18 points. Leading scorer Joe Cardany and senior GrefJ Sobocinski Skaters_ End Rebuilding Year .by BOB GRUSKY Last Saturday the powerful Warriors of Men;imac~ College strode into Achilles Rink to play ·our own Dutchmen. The last time these two teams met in Schenectady was on February 2, 1977, in a contest that was dubbed ''The Game\ and ended with an exciting 4-3 Merrimack victory. Since theb the fortunes of Union Hockey have waned steadily and it was felt by many that th~ always strong Warriors would have an easy time with this year's rebuilding Out .. chmen. Merrimack Coach Bruce Parker evidently thought so for he left six varsity skaters at home. The Union team, outto avenge last year's 15-2 loss at the hands of .the Warriors, were . very much \up\ for the game and were determined to make a good showing in front· of their fans. The .game opened up with good, hard skating by both sides in which the resolute young Dutchmen stayed even with their more experienced foes. A crowd of 1,800 at Achilles Rink was buzzing with anticipation as both sides had several good opportunities to score. Then at 3.:39 freshman Bill Wall drew two minutes for charging and the fans were a chance to see the potent Merrimack power play. The Union team, led by savvy senior defensemen Mike O'Connell and hustling freshman Brian Shea, was able to successfully kill off the penalty. Three minutes later, Steve Arnold dug the puck out of the corner and centered it to Paul Henderson who poked it home to give the Warriors a 1-0 advantage. The Dutchmen remained undiscouraged and proceeded to put presstwe on the Merrimack goalie, Gilles Moffet, yet they failed to score in period 1. The second period opened with another· Merrimack penalty, this time for roughing, but the Union six were unable to convert and the game reswned its end to end action. At the halfway mark, defensemen Bill Wall, bringing back to memory the likes of Jack Rankin and Pete Crawford, threw a crun- ching body check with which he nearly decapitated Merrimack's Brian Bullock, thereby bringing to life the partisan Union crowd. 'The Union team then began to assert itself and with a little over three minutes left in the period Merrimack defensemen Dean Fraser was forced to commit an interference penalty in order to stem the Union attack. ' At 7:15 Union scored a powerplay goal as Bill Mason .poked in a ·rebound off a Bill Wall shot. Union was looking to go into the locker rogm tied at one but Merrimack Captain Brian Bullock skated out of his own zone, sped around the Union defense, ana after checking goalie Merlo lifted a backhand into the top corner of the net to give the Warriors a 2-1 advantage with just twenty- eight seconds left in the second period. The third period ,began with the big Achilles crowd hoping for an \upse_t\. It was not to be as the Merrimack experience and depth began to take its toll in the third period. At 3:25 in the third period, Union's Jim Anderson drew two minutes for charging and about a minute later the Merrimack powerplay was able to convert with Tom Lawler scooping up a loose puck in front of the cage and ram- ming it home to make the score 3-1. Three minutes later the Warriors scored again as Doug Nate made a picture pass to Bob Matherson, who rifted the. puck into the twine to make .it 4-l...!.l'he rest of the period, much to the dismay of the Dutchmen went the same way. Merrimack scored continually. Continu~d on T.a2e 16 Seniors Matthewson and O'Conhell with CC>ach Morrison. VoL 1< by! The Art to find themseb curricul• tracurric With the: Barry ~ Steckler, Depa-Rtll! certain developrr. College. Oepartm its role -c comes ii 1cbool i tebanks.' Mounteb organi-za defined 1 and over not surpr The on between' finally cx and thE agreeing Moun mismana divisive relations. of the t tebanks .. ding for dramatic crux oft MOUI theoretic consistin, intereste, fact, it theatri'ca The U11 teb~nks students fun play~ of an I terested the MoUJ in Washl thelibra1 Nott and theatre. being a funded b fact whi4 While1 r~lative organiza Departm In 1971, l as a prof began tt program Steckler profeSSOI been a s helped 1 academ

