Fo11nded at Union College 1877 Vol. 1 09, No. 2 c: \' -\ 10 -a. Schenectady, New York Union College Student Forum 1979-1980 Governance~ Discussed byROBERTPANARELLA and ANDREW WISOFF On September 17, the Student Forum met for the first time this year to ·discuss the proposed new College Gover- nance system. The Middle States Drafting Committee on Governance will be presenting to the Board -of Trustees, as amended -by the Faculty and Student Forum, the final draft of the proposed Governance system during the October meeting of the Board. approved of ·the proposed College Governance system as a whole, but expressed several minor concerns regarding the composition and legislative domain of the Student Affairs Council. A w~ek later, on September 24, the Student Forum met for the second time to create a five- member committee to reorganize Student Govern- ment. This committee- will present a report by the eighth week of this term. The Forum also discussed proposed student amendments to the College Governance Report. V,oting on these amendments will be held next Tuesday. Among the proposed amendments: 1. An amendment that would insure that all undergraduate student positions on subcouncils would he chosen by the Student Forum Committee on Com-. mittees. 2 .. An amendment that would specify the membership of the Subcouncil on Student Conduct, including the specific number of student and faculty members. 3. An amendment that would Continued on page 10 Thursday, Sept. 27, 1979 I ' ,. --. \i ·~i <~l Dean RelocO-ted by ELLEN VAN DYKE One ofttre' ehanges on_ campus occurring over the s~ break was the relocation .of the Deqn of Students' Office. Previously housed' in Old Gym Hall, the Dean's office. is now located on the main floor of Carnegie in what. was the Student Activities Office. The decision to relocate was based on the judge,ment of the College Center Committee and Dean Kellett concerning several issues. The major reason for relocating the office \\as to increase the accessibility of Dean Kellett. He feels that by having his office in Carnegie, in the mainstream of student traffic, many problems may be able to be averted before they get out of hand. For many students it required a special effort to walk over to Old Gym Hall, and Dean Kellett thinks that so.me problems have become unm a nag ea ble precisely because students wouldn't make the effort until too late. A second important reason for moving Dean Kellett's office deals with increasing the ef- fectiveness of his office and other offices in working together on· problems con- cerning the students. Previously, there were too many small offices in separate parts of the campus creating problems of communication. With the consolidation of several of these small offices there is now the Office of Student Affairs. This office WQrporates the Dean of Students, .~ Kellett, the Assistant Dean of ~ Mike Andolina, and the Coor- dinator of Student Activities, Lorraine Marra. Having these offices located together not only increases their communication with each other, but also with the students. Now if someone is out or on vacation, a student will have someone else available for him to talk to instead of being told to try again the following week Often the fo!lrJWing week is too late as most problems need inunediate attention. The structure of the Dean of Students' Office has remained basically the same. However, Safety and Security is no longer one-ofits responsibilities. They are now connected with the Physical Plant. As far as policy is concerned, two major changes have occurred. The contract with the outside food , service has been cancelled, and Angelo Mazzone has been named Director of Food Ser- vices. He has hired new people to work at West College and Hale House and is hoping to make improvements in food quality and service. The con· tract with the Community Health Plan has also been cancelled. This contract had provided five doctors but only Continued on page 9 Professor Byron Nichols, Chairman of the Governance Drafting Committee, was in- vited to present his thoughts on Governance to the Forum. Prof. Nichols reviewed the history of the Governance Drafting Committee and the problems of governance in general at Union during the past few years. Prof.- Nichols briefly explained · the system of councils and liaison groups in the proposed new College Governance system. He also compared student input and legislative power relative to the current All-College Senate system, and the future of faculty and student trustees. New Assistant Dean Appointed Dean Robert Kellett, who was also invited to the first meeting, by JOHN W. VanDENBURGH The \Fall term at Union College has brought about many changes, not the least of which is the appointmen1 of Michael Andolina as Assistant Dean of Students. Mr. Andolina is .nQh however, a stranger to the- campus community, having Welcome Back The Downtown Schenectady Association, a group of mer- chants an·d individuals in- terested in the well-being of Schenectady's downtown area, is sponsoring the second annual ''Welcome Back College Day.\ The festivities which_ comprise this {lvent will take place tonight, Thursday, Sept. 27, from 6 p.m. to 11 p.m. on that portion ·of Jay St. which is bordered by Liberty and State Streets. _ Many of the merchants along Jay St. will stay open later than usual this evening to offer sales to visitors. Sidewalk sales are planned, as is a farmer's market, where fresh, locally grown produce may be bought. The farmer's market will occur on State St. from 6 p.m. until 8 p.m. The entertainment which is planned for the evening features talent .from both Union College and S~henectady County Community College. The activities planned for the evening include demonstrations. of fencing, ice sculptui'ing, and frisbee thrgwing; a Medieval dancing show given by UColl's Society of Creative Anachronisms; juggler and fire-eater Adam Frey, folk rock selections by Gary Glauber and Rob Imre: a one-act play: and 1he Helleborg Consort. Union's own radio station, WRUC, 90.9 FM, will broadcast live from the downtown area. But don't count on a radioed report of what's going on-come on down and find out what's going on firsthand. 6-8 p.m.-Ice Sculpturing 6:30 p.m.-Fencing Demo 7:00 p.m.-Frisbee Throwing Demo 8:00 p.m.-Helleborg Consort 7:30 p.m.-Medieval Dancing 8:30 p.m.-Juggler and Fire- eater 9:15 p.m.-One-act Play 9:30 p.m.-Folk Rock taught in the evening division, and worked for the Admissions Office prior to this promotion. A lQver of liveral arts, he holds Philosophy degrees from Oswego, Binghamton and SUNY at Albany. The new Assistant Dean has a history of close association with college students and young adults, including a year in the Job Admissions Office at Becker Junior College, as well as an administrative position in the' State Offices Substance Control Service. From his degrees and work experience it is apparent that he is well qualified to ex;ecute the duties of his new post. Mr. Andolina feels that his main concern is to help the students. He is available to answer questions and assist in solving problems. Other responsibilities of his are Ft·eshman Orie11tation, coor- dinating Parents W~ekend, <ldvising various clubs, and ~!tending Student Forum and Conduct Committee meetings. One of his current projects· is dor·m repair and restoration thr· point being that prospectiv~ .students may be influenced toward other institutions if they can receive a comparable education as well as better housing conditions there. Andolina is currently residing on campus in the West College apartment. This location allows him to take a more involved interest in the campus com- munity. ··community\ plays a large part in his philosophy about. and love for, Union College. He is very impressed b~· the spirit, pride and frien- dliness Union students exhibit, and he hopes to cultivate this rven more, along with a sense of tradition. The rationale is that these traits will s.et Union apart from comparable schools. It is with this aura of ··family\' that he hopes to avoid a \we vs. they\ syndrome between students and administration and promote a congenial ap- proach to problem solving. Since assuming his new of- fice, Andolina has been plagued by drcumstantial difficulties. Arriving relatively inex- perienced, in the midst of Freshman Orientation, he found himself without an office or a phone. Forced to run a ''mobile operation,\ he did an admirable job of working with the Orientation Committee to pull off a successful program. Still, he believes that the general consternation of that situation· was helpful, as it forced him to grow quickly into his respon- sibilities. Since then, things have settled down, and the ne\\ office of Assistant Dean of Students is located in the Student Activities Office, first floor, Carnegie Hall. 1 ' ' \ . ~. . '.\~ i; ' ·. l -:~- ': ',;\ \\\\' Assistant Dean of Students, Mi~hael Andolina

... Page 2 OONOO.RDIEZ\{SIS, September 27, 1979 Editorial: A. Student Center?' Has anyone out there come recently to Carnegie Hall in search of a dance class and, upon opening the dance club office door, been greeted by Angelo Mazzone's secretary or a smiling Dave Wood? How ma~y of you this have gone to visit Lorraine Marra in the Student Activities Office only to find the Dean of Students' secretary located there? And who,. in his or her quest to findsome rest and relaxation in the campus game room, has found a locked door instead? If you have had any of these twilight-zonish ex- periences, then you qualify to join the ranks of the disgrtmtled victims of the Carnegie Hall Restructuring of 1979. T)lere are several. points of student grievance which may be, and indeed demand to be, raised regarding both the nature of the restructuring itself and the manner in which it was conducted. As far as the nature of the restructuring is concerned, one must question the appropriateness of moving new administrative offices into Carnegie Hall (ie, Residence Life Office, Dean of Students Office) and expanding office space there for the Director of Food Services. In the past, Carnegie Hall has been deemed the college's student activiti~s center-a place where student clubs and organizations could meet in particular, and a place where students could seek recreation in general. The previsions for expanded administrative office space in Carnegie violates the student- activities-only atmosphere which best befits a true student center. The administrators who support the Carnegie restructuring scheme argue that It is appropriate that the Residence Life, Dean of Students, and Food Service offices be located in Carnegie because they provide essential student services. Are we to infer from this that no other administrative offices at Union serve the students, and so are not relocated in Carnegie? Or, alternatively, are we to infer that other administrative offices serving students shall soon be moved to Carnegie Hall? If this former holds true, then th.at is a shame. If the latter holds true, then the infirmary may, some day soon, be located in Carnegie's fourth floor men's room. We do not contend that those individuals responsible for restructuring the room arrangements in Carnegie Hall acted with malice or any disregard for the student interest. Rather, we are certain that the restructuring plans, as conceived of and as executed, were undertaken by individuals who believed they had the student interest properly pinpointed. And so it is inappropriate to talk of an adrninisterive \disregard\ for _student Interests; we must instead consider the restructuring effort to constitute a \miscalculated regard\ for student interests. One cannot help but think that the onus in Carnegie Hall is no longer student activities when one stops to consider the severe· reduction in office space which Lorraine Marra, upon whom rests the difficult job of coor- dinating such activities, has been caused to suffer. Perhaps it is not mere chance which has dictated that the title of Carnegie Hall should now be the College Center, and not the Student Center; the difference in the titles is slight, but the meaning of the title dif- ference is not, There is one aspect in particular concerning the manner in which the restructuring was conducted which is cause for some student unrest. When former club rooms were designated to become common-space rooms, there was much club unrest. When former club property was designated to become student activities com- mon-property, there was more club unrest. To quell such club unrest as arose in each of these instances, Dean Kellett insisted that, in the long run, these two new student activities policies would benefit all students, and he may be right on one or both of these points. But if the policies looked good on paper, they got a little ugly in practice. As rooms were evacuated over the summer recess, many clubs suffered their possessions to be strewn about the halls, and as a result of this carelessness, some club items were stolen. Among the clubs- which lost property in this manner are the Dance Club, which reports a typewriter, rugs, and a stereo missing; the Student Environmental Alliance (see Letters section) which lost a filing cabinet; and the Women's Network, which lost four chairs, valued at $200 each. This wanton disregard of club, and in some instances, private, property,. as a consequence of the Carnegie restructuring is unfair and is demonstrative of a more deep-rooted disregard (or lack of sufficient regard) for the student club members of the college. Editors-in-Chief · Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons News Editor Features Editors Paul Feinsot Donna Creeley Sue Barnhart Rachel Mandel Danny Wojnllower l'ffark Palomba Cindy Aranow Roberta Moss Pat Wright Ellen Berger Maria Manfredonia Vicky Eddy Neil Skolnik Ellen VanDyke, F~an Teitel, Layout Editors Sports Editor Arts Editor Classifie.ds Photo Editor Calendar Fine Lines Staff this week Business Subscriptions Barb Plotkin, Gary Glauber, Melissa Gold, Jack Connor, Darren Saunders, Susan Bloomberg Carole Reinig Martha Rubenstein, Scott Witkin, Ellen Holtzman CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8% Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third cl:ass matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. tiplUI returning .to· tJnion <thi~­ •. --w~·-l,-~.:1 \ii$~;v::eood~,·that \lll~nw · 1;;,-~!fiiall!fJ~IS --Iil:~!if.-· t~l~Cll'< -pl~ii- ·:ifl 1:~<1tOWJ~-dill~U~, .. ;tll!e,. interiQr::qf:vCar\' · · Subscribe to_ CONCORDIENSIS Parents, Alumni, Friends $10 yearly Clip the coupon below and return to Concordiensis , Box 2517, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308 ----------------------------------------------, I I I I I I Name ........................................... ~ ........................................................................................ . ·street ..... , ..................... \ ............... ~·······,······················· .. ·········•··············•···························· I I I I CitY ............................................................................ ~·· Stat~ ................... ~ ................ Zip· .............................. :. I I ~-~------~--------------~-~~-~~-~~-----~-~~---J AJ ' A~ .byLYI\ Most of years her graduate from now David Di alumnus~ year afte no:w the Admissio11 Dave w Union st1 freshmen idea of a 1 with an I degree. Ir playedon1 was apre After g Dave wen1 and Gamt he return<: the admis. he is stiH tivities -an among t Students 1 men in hi~ students. Dave sa to· be in· position. I important done here. on theAdrr he has an~ more of th Last we~ see there~ As are! vacant po1 mediately. CLASS RE the Forum agenda cc distributio freshmen, lnvit~ OnT albur

•. Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, September 21, 1979 Editorial: A Student Center? Has anyone out there come recently to Carnegie Hall in search of a dance class and, upon opening the dance club office door, been greeted by Angelo Mazzone's secretary or a smiling Dave Wood? How many of you this have gone to visit Lorraine Marra in the Student Activities Office only to find the Dean of Students' secretary located there? And who, in his or her quest to find some rest and relaxation in the campus game room, has found a locked doo~ instead? If you have had any of these twilight-zonish ex- p~n.ences, then yo1:1 qualify to join the ranks of the disgruntled victims of the Carnegie:! Hall Restructuring of 1979. There are several points of student grievance which may be, and indeed ?emand to be, raised regarding both the nature of the restructuring 1tself and the manner in which it was conducted. As far as the nature of the restructuring is concerned, one must question the appropriateness of moving new administrative offices into Carnegie Hall ( ie, Residence Life Office, Dean of Students Office) and expanding office space there for the Director of Food Services. In the past, Carnegie Hall has been deemed the college's student activities center-a place where student clubs and organizations could meet in particular, and a place where students could seek recreation in general. The provisions for expanded administrative office space in Camegie violates the student· activities-only atmosphere which best befits a true student center. The administrators who support the Carnegie restructuring scheme argue that it is appropriate that the Residence Life, Dean of Students, and Food Service offices be located in Carnegie because they provide essential student services. Are we to infer from this that no other administrative offices at Union serve the students, and so are not relocated in Carnegie? Or, alternatively, are we to infer that other administrative offices serving students shall soon be moved to Carnegie Hall? If this former holds true, then that is a shame. If the latter holds true, then the infirmary may, some day soon, be located in Carnegie's fourth floor men's room. We do not contend that those individuals responsible for restructuring the room arrangements in Carnegie Hall acted with malice or any disregard for the student interest. Rather, we are certain that the restructuring plans, as conceived of and as executed, were Wldertaken by individuals who believed they had the student interest properly pinpointed. And so it is inappropriate to talk of an administerive \disregard\ for student interests; we must instead consider the restructuring effort to constitute a \miscalculated regard\ for student interests. One cannot help but think that the onus in Carnegie Hall is no longer student activities when one stops to consider the severe reduction in office space which Lorraine Marra, upon whom rests the difficult job of coor- dinating such activities, has been caused to suffer. Perhaps it is not mere chance which has dictated that the title of Carnegie Hall should now be the College Center, and not the Student Center; the difference in the titles is slight, but the meaning of the title dif· ference is not. There is one aspect in particular concerning the manner in which the restructuring was conducted which is cause for some student unrest. When former club rooms were designated to become common-space rooms, there was much club unrest. When former club property was designated to become student activities com- mon-property, there was more club unrest. To quell such club unrest as arose in each of these instances, Dean Kellett insisted that, in the long run, these two new student activities policies would benefit all students, and he may be right on one or both of these points. ~ut if the policies looked good on paper, they got a little ugly m practice. As rooms were evacuated over the swnmer recess many clubs suffered their possessions to be strewn about the halls' and as a result of this carelessness, some club items were stolen: Among the clubs which lost property in this manner are the Dance Club, which reports a typewriter, rugs, and a stereo mi~sing; the ~t~dent ~nvironmental Alliance (see Letters section) wh1ch lost a filmg cabmet; and the Women's Network, which lost four chairs, valued at $200 each. This wanton disregard of club and in some instances, private, property, as a consequence of the Carnegie restructuring is unfair and is demonstrative of a more deep-rooted disregard (or lack of sufficient regard) for the student club members of the college. Editors-in-Chief Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons ~ewsEditor Features Editors Paul Feinsot Donna Creeley Sue Barnhart Rachel Mandel Danny Wojnilower Mark Palomba Cindy Arano:w Roberta Moss Pat Wright Ellen Berger Maria Manfredonia Vicky Eddy Neil Skolnik Ellen VanDyke, Fran Teitel, Layout Editors Sports Editor Arts Editor Classifieds Photo Editor Calendar Fine Lines Staff this week Business Subscriptions Barb Plotkin, Gary Glauber, Melissa Gold, Jack Connor, Darren Saunders, Susan Bloomberg Carole Reinig Martha Rubenstein, Scott Witkin, Ellen Holtzman CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8% Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third clpSS matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. L •tt -··.· ···.e··:.······ .--.,.· .·.·.,.. .... ·.· .......... . :· ..... ~,::~. : · .... , :·_:- ' :~:(, . ·. '''·}·~,.''·::'\'' ' ' . ,: . . .. •' ··- .-, .... . .- .... · Changes Made To the Editor: Upon ret~rning to Union this fall, I discovered that many changes had taken place. I found that the interior of Car- negie Hall had been drastically altered. Up until ·this year, various student organizations had offices located on the second and third· floors of Carnegie Hall. This year. how.ever, these rooms now house the offices of the Union College Food Service and Ho.using. The confiseation ·· of these rooms was carried out without the prior knowledge of the student organizations in~ volved. As chairman of th~ Student Environmental Alliance, I never received notification that the room which we had reserved for- weekly meetings had been taken over hy another organi~ation. In addition, im- portant literature and other information had ~been removed from our room without our knowledge. After this discovery, there ensued a great search for our property. The search ended in an open lounge on the third floor of Carnegie. Our literature was found strewn haphazardly on the floor. Apparently, no care h'!ld been taken by the authorities involved to insure the safety ·of our dub's materials. As a consequence of these actions, my ability to carry out my functions as chairman is being drastically hampered. The club now has no place where relevant literature can be disseminated, or stored. In addition, our property isstHl, at the time of . this writing, sitting unprotected on the floor of Carnegie Hall. The -actions described. above are inexcusable. 1 feel· that the rigpts of our organization have been violated. Not ohly was -ro prior notification · given, the clubs involved pl•Yed no part in . the deeision to aJJret the ifiterior · of Carnegie H;JU •. J fino if very difficult to maintain faith whEn actions which affect student-run organizations are taken without any input from the students . themselves. These actions cal'u)ut be reversed. Our rooms eannot be returned. Those Nespnnsible should be strongly advised, however, that further tran.- sgressions ~ill not be tolerated. Sincerely, Gary S. Bowitch Chairman, Student Environmental Alliance Campus· Security Dear Editor: I arrived at school this fall with a cast on my leg due to an operation that took place August 5th. The cast was to be remov~d by a local doctor on September 24th at 10:00 a.m. I checked with the infirmary about getting . a ride to. the doctor's offi~e since I did not have my own transportation, and they told me to go to security. Security informed me that fill I had to do was call them ten minutes befor:e I· needed a ride, and they would see to it that I made it tp the ap. pl)intrnent. Even .. thQ!lgh .· they said that pri:lvipu$ not~Pe was 1Ulnecessary, I left the date and time with them. However, when I oalled oil Septentber 24th, I was told that the security guard was not on campus and that if I called back in ·half an hour I might get ·a ride. This was unsatisfactory because if I dido 't get there on time I would miss my appointment.· It was necessary for me to call a cab and it c:ost me ten dollars round trip. I feel that this whole · episode' shows that security is incredibly lax on campus, and the fact that the guard was not even on school grounds at the time that I called was un- believable. P~rhaps it is .time for· a closer look at campus security, and maybe there are changes to be made. Sincerely, Rachel Gettzog New System Dear Editor: Surprise! Most of you don~t realize that there is going to be a new gGverning ·system at Union. Well there is, and it is going to be impl~rnJ:nted on tltP. · first of the ·year. I have recently been . appointe¢· to the Student Life Committee andthe Student Forum as wetl. t was amazed to · find that·· decisiuns are being ma'de by an Mite few who thittk they know what yau want and need~ They even say that you have hml. ~ttftile '(rpportUP'itv' ttl· . · speak out aoout the new system .. Nobody from:tll.'e Forum came to my floor last year to hear what l had to say, or even to tell me about this new system. There is going to be a com· mittee with seven of its eleven elected - officials faculty members. This committee shall make all recommendations about curricular development, and a variety-of other imr:.<H-tJu1t areas. These rec~otrlmA;nd,ations are reviewed by the faculty, and then sent to the president. I asked why the students don't have some say in stopping something from going through as the faculty does. The was 1 \The faculty a prafessionals, and they . know whaes good for ns.\ But we conswners, and we are rat:lonl:H enough to listen to. the advice professionals. It is an area should concern students munh as faculty. I think we should ask for equal representation. This is only one of the many issues of tne proposed system. I am ama2:.e<l that students haven't said .anything. Thi~ · ts going to be policy unless you your desires be heard. It is not too late. I should inform you that everything written here does not represent the views the Forum, but is only a humble opinion. David Stern Super Job This year's Orientation Committee and Orientatinn Advisors certainly deserve our appreciation and praise. They ran Orientation ih a mannel' that. ·would·· make many ad- ministrators envious. . This is not to say that there weren't problems, frustrating moments, and last minute reschedulings. But despite many ob$tacles they managed to generage enthusiasm aM instill a sense of pri'de in our · new students,. By means sttQng leadership, long hours, and seemingly urflitnited energy, the C<>mmittee and Orientatiqn Advisors pulled off a SUPER JOB! ! I congratulate tham on behalf of the Union College Community. Mike Andolina Assistant Dean of Students Subscribe to CONCORDIENSIS Parents, Alumni, Friends $10 yearly Clip the coupon below and return to Concordiensis , Box 2517, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308 --------------------------------~-------------, I Name . I I ................................................................................................................................ I I Street I I .................................................................... .................................................................. I : CitY ............................................................................... State ................................... Zip .............................. :. I I ~--------------------------~------------------J f ] ll i ' t t - ~ I ! I. I ·1 ' I t i ' \ I I I , i· ( I l I ; :l I i \ .! I I \ ' I ' ( i I .! I I l ! I I 'I ! 1 I AI by IXN Most of years her1 graduate· from now: David Di alumnus v year afte1 now the Admission Dave w Union stt freshmen idea of a 1 with an I degree. In played on t was a pre: After g Dave went and Gamb he returne the admis: he is still tivities ·an among t Students \ men in his students. Dave sa' to be in' position. 1- importantt done here. on the Acirr. he has an l3 more of th Last weE see the res As are~ vacant pm mediately. CLASSRE the Forum agenda co distributio1 freshmen, lnvitt OnTI albur

OONOORDIJ!JNSIS~ September 2''t., 1919 Page 3 Alumnus Joins Health Grant ... . ' Admissions. Staff by LYNNE GREENBERG Most of us will spend four years here at Union, and then graduate only to return years from now fdr our Heunions. Mr. David Dickinson '77, is one alumnus who returned only one year after graduating and is now the Assistant Dean of Admissions. _ Dave was typical of many Union students. Like many freshmen he came having no idea of a major and graduated with an Industrial Economics degree. In hiS years here, he play_ed on the football team, and was a president of Chi Psi. After graduating in 1977, Dave went to work for Proctor and Gamble. Then in Ju~y 1978 he returned to begin his job on the admissions staff. However, he is still active in social ac- tivities -and has many friends among the student body. Students who had been fresh- men in his senior year are still students. in Admissions. The students who he had ''sold\ Union to arrived here to begin their own fre.shmail years. \It's most rewarding when students come Lip to you and SC:lY they C:tre here because of too interview they had with vou.\ As ·an alumnus and ad~ ministrator, Dave has a unique perspective of the college. His major advice to students in- volves their lives after Union. \Students who realize their skills in and out -of the classroom are those who will get the best job opportunities.\ He strongly encourages students to utilize the Placement Office and to talk to alumni. Moving from the position of student to administrator, Dave has gotten to know the people behind the rules. Students often bad-mouth the administrators forgetting they are all hwnan. The people behind the rules are merely doing their jobs. The administrators are realizing what must be done to maintain the school's .reputaton. Mr. Dickinson's actual job now is to make students ;;~,ware of Union and encourage them to eJCperience it. The admissions staff is now looking for a diverse yet superior student body. Dave strongly encourages all prospective students to visit the campus especially through the Student Host Program. He feels his job is to ''pass the right word in the right wa-y to the right people.\ The Admissions staff has changed. since Dave's first year. Mr. Kenneth Nourse has taken over in charge of Admissions and the Admissions staff has been made a part of the President's cabinet. From an alumtms' point of view, Dave feels this was a very good move because the Admissions staff is actually determining the future of the school. A $200,000 grant -has been awarded to the College'S' Health Studies Center for development of its programs. TI:te grant, called a Public Health Special Project Grant, was made by the U.S. Depart- ment ·of Health, Education and W elf ate to be used over a period of three years. Eugene Schneller, director .of the center, said that the funds will be used to hire two faculty members~one a specialist in health economics and finance, and the other a health planner. \I'm very pleased about the grant,\ he said. '\It will help give us an excellent foundation of faculty for our programs.\ The Health Studies Center, which is part of the Institute of Administration and Management at Union, offers graduate degree programs leading to an M.S. in health planning and policy, an M.S. in health systems management, and an M.B.A. with a con- centration in · health system management. Two of the programs-the M.S. in health planning and policy, and the M.B~A­ program--were recently ad- mitted to associate membership in the Association of University Programs in Health Administration. Students in both programs must complete internships at health planning, health policy or health care agencies, and the health planner to be hired under the HEW grant will supervise them, Schneller said. \The health planner will be directly responsible for supervising the internships, and will try to bridge the gap bet- ween theory, as taught in the classroom, and actual practice in health agencies,\ Schneller said. \The planner will also -teach one course in health planning.\ The health economist will be involved in teaching and research, and will be charged with the responsibility of developing a broader program in health economics and finance at Union. As all of the center's programs are developed in the coming year, ''a great deal of attention will be given to the identification of the skills and knowledge unique to planners at state and regional health planning agencies,\ Schneller said, explaining that the programs then can be tailored precisely to match the needs of those entering the field. Dave says jt's very different to· be in an administrative position. He now realizes the important things that have to be done here. As the only alumnus on the Admissions staff, he feels he has an advantage in knowing more of the facts of the school. Three Faculty Members Retire Last week Dave was able to see the results of his first year Three members of Union College's faculty retired at the end of the 1978-79 academ'ic year. They are Edgar Curtis, As a result of last spring's elections there are presently two vacant positions on the Student Forwn which must be 'filled im- mediately. The two positions are SECRETARY and SENIOR CLASS REPRESENTATIVE. Besides being a .voting member on the Forum, the Secretary is a member of the tax committee, the agenda committee and is responsible for the redocrding and distribution of minutes. Any full time undergraduate, including freshmen, .ma;v · apply for .this position. The senior class professor of music, and Winfred M. Schwarz and Ch~tles D. Swartz, both Frank ana M;uie Louise Bailey Professors of Physics. The three were among those honored for their service recently at a luncheon on campus. Curtis is well-known in the Capital District as founder and . representative IS a member of the Forum, the agenda committee and the All-College Senate. Only seniors may apply for this position. Anyone interested in either of these positions must pick up a petition in the Student Activities Office. Petitions will be available on October 2 and must be returned by October 5. The election will take place October 9 in Carnegie. For any questions please contact Ken Plumb (382-9029) or Dave O'Connor (382-9582). C~llege Day Specials REMO'S UNISEX 8ALON N•SONA£1Z •• ... ,. iH;s)t;.'t FOI ME.N A WOMEN • PERMAN£NT W A VINC • · PIUVA TE IOO'niS 374-7835 140 CLINTON ST. (JUST OFF STATES\ ' SCHENECTADY, NY. · Invitation to all' Students! ' On Thursday, Sept. 27,$1.00 off sale prices of all albums and tapes with student I.D. Apex Music Cor. State ,and Broadway 377-1112 -\' For three generations we have been giving sophomores a U.C. key charm. Stop in with idEm- tification card. · HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTE~ Three Union Alumni in family 166 JAY ST. ·FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY director of a nwnber of music groups, including the Nor- theastern New York Youth Orchestra and Northeastern New York Philharrnonia. A native of Aberdeen, Scotland, Curtis studied at the University of Edinburgh and at the Curtis Institute of Music. He came to the Capital District in 1948 to direct and conduct the Albany Symphony Orchestra, pnd later founded and directed the Tri-City SymphOny Orchestra, which merged with the Albany Symphony in 1962. Curtis joined Union in 1956 a:s director of music, and served as first chairman of the newly- formed arts department in the following decade. Curtis recently returned from Haita after nine weeks as -guest conductor of Haiti's only full symphony orchestra. Winfred Schwarz joined Union's faculty in 1946, becoming an associate professor in 1951 and professor in 1957. In 1975 he and Charles D. Swartz were named to the Frank and Marie Louise Bailey fhair in Physics; the two were the first to hold the prestigious chair simultaneously. Schwarz is the author of the text Intermediate Ele<·- tromagnetic Theory, published iiL 1964, and more recently has conducted research in plate tectooics. He holds 'A.B. and M.S. degrees from Washington University and received hi~ Ph.D. from Ohio Statt: University. Charles D. Swartz joined Union in 1956 as associate professor after teaching at Johns Hopkins. He was made full professor in 1962 and ap- pointed to the Bailey chair in 1975. . As a Fulbright lectUI·er. Swartz taught solid stat!.' physics at the University of Ankara, Turkey, during his sabbatical leave in 1961-62, and sE!Veral years later taught physics at a summer institute for secondary school teachers in Bangalore, India. Swartz holds his A.B. and Ph.D. degrees from Johns Hopkins. Others who retired from Union .in June included Ullian Applegarth, executive assistant to the president. Applegarth, ·who received an honorary y Doctor of Humane Letters Continued on page 9 •

' ; j ; I I I f! I; I I ( I! I-; l ~ I I ; I I ' l .l i·! I i I i I ~ I 1 I l I : ~ ' ~ I : I ; -1 : i l ! ; f ·; I ! t .l I j r I I ' i I l \I I ; ! ' I : I ;. , CONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1979 Page 3 Alumnus Joins Admissions Staff Health Grant by LYNNE GREENBERG Most of us wiH speAd four years 'here at Union, and then graduate only to return years from now for our Reunions. Mr. David Dick·inson '77, is one alunmus who returned only one year after graduating and is now the Assistant Dean of Admissions. . Dave was typical of many Union students. Like many freshmen he carne having no idea of a major and graduated with an Ir:1dustrial Economics degree. In hts years here, he played on the football team, and was a president of Chi Psi. After graduating in 1977, Dave went te work for Proctor and Gamble. Then in July 1978 he returned to beg~in his job on the admissions staff. However, he is still active in social ac- tivities and has many friends among the student body. Students wh@ had been fresh- men in his senior year are still students. in Admissions. The students who he had \sold\ Union to arrived here to begin their own freshman years. \It's most rewarding when students come up to you and say they are here because of the interview they had with vou.\ As an alumnus and ad- ministrator, Dave has a unique perspective of tbe college. His major advice to students in- volves their lives after Union. ''Students who realize their skills in and out ·of the classroom are those who will get the best jeb opportunities.\ He strongly encourages students te utilize the .Placement Office and to talk to alumni. Moving from the position of student to administrator, Dave has gotten to know the people behind the rules. Students often bad-mouth the administrators forgetting they are aH human. The people behind the rules are merely doing their jobs. The administrators are realizing what must be done to maintain the school's reputaton. Mr. Dickinson's actual job now is to make students aware of Union and encourage them to eJCperience it. The admissions staff is now looking for a diverse yet superior student body. Dave strongly encourages all prospective students to visit U1e campus especiaHy through the Student Host Progra_m. He feels his job is to ''pass the right word in the right way to the right people.\ The Admissions staff has changed since Dave's first year. Mr. Kenneth Nourse has taken over in charge of Admissions and the Admissions staff has been made a part of the President's cabinet. From an alumnus' point of view, Dave feels this was a very good move because the Admissions staff is actually determining the future of the school. A $200,000 grant has been .awarded to the College'S' Health Studies Center for development of its programs. The grant, called a Public Health Special Project Grant, was made by the U.S. Depart- ment of Health, Education and Welfare to be used over a period of three years. Eugene Schneller, director of the center, said that the funds will be used to hire two faculty members-one a specialist in health economics and finance, and the other a health planner. \I'm very pleased about the grant,\ he said. \It will help give \:IS an e~cellent foundation of faculty for our programs.\ The Health Studies Center, which is part of the Institute of Administration and Management at Union, offers graduate degree programs leadiNg to an M.S. in health planning and policy, an M.S. in health systems management, and an M.B.A. with a con- centration in health system management. Two of the programs-the !Vt.S. in health planning and policy, and the M.B._A. program--were recently ad- mitted to associate membership in the Association of University Programs in Health Administration. Students in both programs must complete internships at health planning, he-alth policy or health care agencies, and the health planner to be hired under the HEW grant will supervise them, Schneller said. \The health planner will be directly responsible for supervising the internships, and will try to bridge the gap bet• ween theory, as taught in the classroom, and actual practice ifl health agencies,\ Schneller said. \The planaer will also teach one course in health planning.\ The health economist will be involved in teaching and research, and will be charged with the responsibility of developing a broader program in health economics and finance at Union. As all of the center's programs are developed in the coming year, \a great deal of attention will be given to the identification of the skills and knowledge unique to planners at state and regional health planning agencies,'' Schneller said, explaining that the programs then can be tailored precisely to match the needs of tfiose entering the field. Dave says it's very different to be in an administrative position. He now realizes the importantthings that have to be done here. As the only alumnus on the Admissions staff, he feels he has an advantage in knowing more of the facts of the school. Three Faculty Members Retire Last week Dave was able to see the results of his first year Three members of Union College's faculty retired at the end of the 1978-79 academtc year. They are Edgar Curtis, As a result of last spring's elections thet·e are presently two vacant positions on the Student Forum which must be -filled im- mediately. The two positions are SECRETARY and SENIOR CLASS REPRESENTATIVE. Besides being a voting member on the Forum, the Secretary is a member of the tax committee, the agenda committee and is responsible for the redocrding and distribution of minutes. Any full time undergraduate, including freshmen, may · apply for this position. The senior class professor of music, and Winfred M. Schwarz and Charles D. Swartz, both Frank ana Marie Louise Bailey Professors of Physics. The three were among those honored for their sennce recently at a luncheon on campus. Curtis is well-known in the Capital District as founder and representative IS a member of the Forum, the agenda committee and the All-College Senate. Only seniors may apply for this position. Anyone interested in either of these positions must pick up a petition in the Student Activities Office. Petitions will be available on October 2 and must be returned by October 5. The election will take place October 9 in Carnegie. For any questions please contact Ken Plumb {382-9029) or Dave O'Connor (382-9582). College Day Specials REMO'S UNISEX SALON N8§.NAI.IZBII .4ffl ~;,.-,_,. FOil MEN A WOMEN • PERMANENT WAVINC • PJtfV ATE II0011lS 374·7035 1-40 CLINTON ST. ~JUST OFF STATE S 1 • SCHENECTADY. NY Invitation to all Students! On Thursday, Sept. 27,$1.00 off sale prices of all albums and tapes with student I.D. Apex Music Cor. State and Broadway 377-1112 . ,._ ,,... For three generations we have been giving sophomores a U.C. key charm. Stop in with iden- tification card. · HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Three Union Alumni in family 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY director of a munber of music groups, including the Nor- theastern New York Youth Orchestra and Northeastern New York Philharmonia. A native of Aberdeen, Scotland, Curtis studied at the University of Edinburgh and at the Curtis Institute of Music. He came to the Capital District in 1948 to direct and conduct the Albany Symphony Orchestra, and later founded and directed the Tri-City Symphony Orchestra, which merged with the Albany Symphony in 1962. Curtis joined Union in 1956 as director of music, and served as first chairman of the newly- formed arts department in the following decade. Curtis recentlv returned from Haita after nine weeks as ... guest conductor of Haiti's onlv full symphony orchestra. - Winfred Schwarz joined Union's faculty in 1946, becoming an associate professor in 1951 and professor in 1957. In 1975 he and Charles D. Swartz were named to the Frank :md \1arie Louise Bailev \hair in Phvsics: the two wer~' the first to I1old the prestigious chair simultaneouslv. Schwarz is the author of tht' text Intermediate Elet·- tromagnetir Theory, published in. 1964, and more reeently has conducted research in plate tectonics. He holds 'A.B. and M.S. degrees from Washington University and received hi::- Ph.D. from Ohio StatL· University. Charles D. Swartz joined Union in 1956 as associate professor after teaching at Johns Hopkins. He was madt' full professor in 1962 and ap· pointed to the Bailey chair ir 1975 . As a Fulbright lectmer. Swartz taught solid statl' physics at the University of Ankara, Turkey, during his sabbatical leave in 1961-62, and several years later taught physics at a summer institute for secondary school teachers in Bangalore, India. Swartz holds his A.B. and Ph.D. degrees from Johns Hopkins. Others who retired from Union in June included Lillian Applegarth, executive assistant to the president. Applegarth, who received an honorarv Doctor of Humane Letter\s Continued on page 9

OONCORDIENSIS, September 21} 1979 Chemistry Professor John Sow a Sowa Involved In Research He isn't a full time Federal scientist, yet Associate Professor Dr. John Sowa has intelligently rated the research and development activities at the Army's Chemical Systems Laboratory in Edgewood. Dr. Sowa has been employed here each swnmer for the past 11 years and has personally witnessed the many changes at thi:;; chemical R&D center, a major activity of the Army Armament Research and Devel!.pment Com.:mand. · A nntive of South Bend, Ind., he i:; assigned to CSL's Research Division in the ap- .Plied chemistt:y section, although, in the past decade, he has been involved in decon- tamination research as well as demilitarization and chemical disposal investigations for the A}my. b1\ Sowa received a bachelor of science degree in chemistry from the University of Notre Dame and a Ph. D. in the same dscipline from the University of- Pennsylvania. He is currently involved in detection research, investigating techniques to develup more sensitive· chemical defelilse equipment. \By working at CSL in practically a yearly post- doctoral arrangement, there are definite advantage:s for both . me and the Army,\ he said. \First there is an infusion of new knowledge and l learn and gain useful information that I can pass on to my chemistry students, who will also benefit. up to date on the other's ac- tivities. ''CSL's fortunate to · have sharp people-state-of -the-art researchers, equalled by few, yet the government bureaucratic obstacles slow the efficiency of the research. \I de ally, researchers should be able to pursue their missions . without the reams of ad- ministrative paperwork. Safety and surety · considerations are certainly integral to chemical research, yet they should not prohibit its progress,\ Dr. Sowa said. · Freshmen Class ·Diverse \And secoadly, I can bring new knowledge and ·ideas into the research here,\ said Dr. Sow a. He went on to point out that the research laboratories at Edgewood :have remained somewhat isolated Irom the remainder of the other centers of chemical research. \The chemical defense research done here is necessary for the country's security, because somewhere along the line, our defenses will be tested, and we might as well be prepared,'' he said, adding that CSL's achievements in research · go beyond military use, such as breakthroughs in tioxicology \ . by SUSAN McGOVERN and GALE V ANORE Rob is a typical Union fresh- man. A New York State resident, he attended a public high school, is a science major . and has the intentions of going to medical school. He lives and eats in West College. He chose Union for its academic reputation, but is presently enjoying its social life as well. While these are popular characteristics, there is diversity among the freshman class. Out of 541 people, 39 percent are female. Although a majority (74 percent) come from New York, 9 per cent are from Massachusetts, 7 per cent are from New Jersey and 6 per cent are from Connecticut. The remaining 6 per cent are from other states and foreign countries. Approximately 446 people attended public high school. The most popular majors are science and engineering; approximately 103 people are undecided. Besides seeking a particular program of study, various other factors influenced students' choices. Many freshman were looking fGr a small, private school, a nice campus and a strong post-gradua1e reputation. While one student looked into Union because he was recruited for the hockey 1 team, another said, \When I visited Union last year, someone was playing 'The Dead', So I decided this was a cool school.\ As a second week draws t@ an , end, the freshman class has already developed definite opinions. For instance, students had a great deal to say about orientation. Most comments were positive; everyope liked their orientation· advisors and found them to be very helpful. Some objections to orientation, however, were: a lack of free time, some of the activities were ''infantile\ and being confined to one group was often restricting. In general, however the freshman class considered orientation to be an excellent introduction to Union College. Students' stomachs have also been adjusting to Unien. The subject of food at West ;College brought forth manv comments i:TheGirls ·;;Who'll Anything f/<, . . l!iJ SEEITIN THE . .,._at ·.·.,;. i . COMPLETE UNCUT VERSION .·· · ... .., IN BLAZING COI.OR · .. ----== Tues. Oct. 2, 9& 1l p.rri., 75e This week's movie: The Yellow Submarine Fri., 10 pm, Sat&Sun 9-ll, $1.25. DISCOVER ~~~RUTGERS THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY Visit with our representative DATE: TIME: Friday, October 5, 1979 9:00 a.m. PLACE: Office of Career Resources and Placement Rutgers, a major research university, of- fers nearly 240 degree programs through eleven graduate and professional schools. Currently, over 13,000 students are en- rolled in master's, specialist, and doctoral level study at New Brunswick-Piscataway,· Newark, and Camden. The university makes available numerous assistantships, fellowships, and scholarships on a com· petitive basis. • -,.. .... • •It • •r • 1 -, *. • 1 1 ~ Jo ~ II •• ;J \'·I ,- ~ .l such as: \I eat what they can't damage,\ \Too much chicken,\ \The salad is great; I feel like a rabbit.\ One freshman responded, \Believe it or not, I like it.'' . B e s .i d\e s m i s s in g homecooking, most freshman seem glad to be here and have not experienced much homesickness. One person commented that \Schenectady does not compare to New York City.\ A student summed up her feeling b~aying, ''I'm worried, but not sick.\ Everyone seems to agree the social life at Union is good. Freshman favorites include l:>eer, parties, the Pub and the Skellar. Needless to say, the average freshman has not gotten more than 5 hours of sleep per night. ''So, this interchange of in- formation will serve both the . Artny and the academic community, bringing both sides research. ·. \However; the military significance has led the basic chemical.research at Edgewood to be de-emphasized. Now, the 'laboratory looks like .an engineering facility, with the , research more practically oriented,\ he said. It appears that the freshman class is happy to be here, but being new does not appeal to many. Students are looking forward to the day that they feel like an integral part of the school. One freshman en- thusiastically said, \I can't wait to be a sophomore! \ Uean of Students. Robert Kellett ·, Carnegie HaU Renovated by WILL HALLGREN This summer the college .spent approximately $15,000 to impro:ve Carnegie Hall, About $5,600 came from the tax committee, paid for with student activities fees. Another $5,400 came from the student activities capital account. This is a college· account which is not covered by student acti<Vity fees. The remaining sum, about $4,000, came from the budgets of the offices that were moved. Dean of Students Robert Kellett said that the changes were made with two ideas in mind. First, he wanted to consolidate the Dean · of Students office with the office ·Of Student Activities and Development. The switch from Old Gym Hall also gives the Dean of Students office a location better suited to campus traffic. The Dean's second objective is to get more student use out of the building. Hesaid space that was allocated to specific student organizations will now be available to all students on a scheduled basis. The student organizations are not being kicked out. Dean Kellet said that most of them only use their rooms one night a week. I-J;e decided to make that space available at other ti!T)es. The Dean of Students office is now located where Joe Zolner had his office last year. Next to Dean Kellett's new office is the new location of the office of the · Director of Student Activities and Development. Mrs. Marra is now located in the large outer room as one enters the Student Affairs office, The Housing office has been moved from Old Gym Hall to the third floor of Carneigie. There, it shares an office with the food service. The game room is in the process of being moved from the first floor up to the third flocr. It will have ap- proximately the same equip- ment as last year. It is at least as spacious as the old room, if YOU CAN ... 3 ROOMS AS LOW AS RENT FURNITURE $3995 A MONTH FROM ALBANY -SHERMAN FURNITURE RENTALS ROI.:.FFE;9-;LATHAM. , - ·, • · • ~ •• ~.... . . . . 7.85-3050. . . : . '- ~·. ·- ' . ~ . ' not more so. There is a gate that will be drawn across the door and locked during the late night and early morning, hours in an attempt to preyent vandalism as much·as possible. The new package room ad- dition to the mail room is scheduled to be done during December break. Until it is completed packages can be picked up at the old package room in the basement. There have been two new additions to the first floor Angelo Mazzone has a pizza parlor which should be finished ~in about a week. It is located where his office used to be. The old game room will be transformed into a banquet room. This will be available to students and organizations on a scheduled basis. Construction will begin when the game room equipment is moved upstairs. The room that housed the Women's Network has been changed into an all purpose lounge. I .ike Strauss lounge, it will be available to any recognized student group for receptions,. parties, and etc. It is located on the third floor. The Women's Network has been transplanted to the room formerly occupied by When Diplomacy !<'ails. When Diplomacy Fails has been moved up to the IFC room on the fourth floor. ,Pete Raymond and Tom Talbott spent the summer rebuilding the production studio and refurbishing the lounge of the WRUC station. byJ The OJ continue and an opera tin~ year's g~ Director, . Mr. M; wide-spn t6 his ne\\ located o Carnegie expected October : Mr. Maz best pizz same ser CoHege, ~ and the Sl new pizu Union Col Gperate a on campu that this lead to quality ar The piz~ 4 p.m. to and 4 r: weekends relatively campus sl the vario1 pizza cos1 $3.50 and Sicilian P Besides be QUrcl turkey $1 tuna $l.65 $1.75. mix mixed $2.~ Vegetar byBI Since it!! years ago been a s expansion recent att1 has been becoming ~as last spr1 applied to wattlicem their sign; Albany, outlying c1 The api crease in · about not c expansion, terferenc• station on Therearec have to bE station cou The sta1 obtain a 1 tatively, ~ chosen 89;~ increased difficult d situation oJ bank. Me plications smaller st; contend wi stronger s1 This .is a deregulatic band prot stations, ' powerless stations. As far a cope. with power, st~ D.J.'s aUk, there are (as well as involved '\ make the Musically, very effie: which se1 average c records eac FCC has station ap plication,t: all is in ore only wait I

OONOORDIENSIS .. September 2\1 19\19 Page 5 Food Service Vastly Expanded by IRWIN MENKEN The opening of a pizzeria, continued vegetarian meals, and an overall increase in Qperating efficiency are this year's goals of Food Service Director, Angelo Mazzone. Mr. Ma~zone is anticipating wide-spread positive response t6 his new pizzeri~ which will be located on the bottom floor of Carnegie Hall. The pizzeria is expected to open Monday, October 1st, and according to Mr. Mazzone, will \offer th,e best pizza in th~ are~:~.\ The same service 'that runs West CoHege, The Pub, Hale House, and the Skellar will also run the new pizzeria. This means that Union College Food Service wHl operate aU of the eating places on campus. Mr. Mazzone hopes that this central control will lead to products of higher quality and lower prices. The pizzeria will be open from 4 p.m. to 1 ·a.m. on weekdays and 4 p.m. to 2 a.m. on weekends. The pizzas will cost relatively less than the off- campus shops and will offer all the various toppings. A small pizza costs $2.50, medium for $3.50 and $4.75 for a twelve cut Sicilian Pizza. Besides pizza, Subs may also be pp.rchased: ham $1.65, turkey 11.75, roast beef $1.85, tuna n.s5, salami $1.65, Italian $1. 75. mixed $1. 75, and double mixed $2.75. . Vegetarian, Mr. Mazzone also Power Boost by BRIAN KENNER Since its conception fifty-nine years ago, station WRUC has been a story of progressive expansion. However, its most recent attempt at improvement has been a long time in becoming a reality. As far back ~as last spring, station managers applied to the F.C.C. for a 100- watt license which would enable their signal to reach Latham, Albany, Scotia, and other outlying communities. The application for the in- crease in wattage was brought about not only by the desire for expansion, but also by in- terference from the SUNY station on the same frequency. There are certain problems that have to be resolved before the station could increase its signal. The station would have to obtain a new frequency (ten- tatively, WRUC directors have chosen 89.7) to accomodate the increased power; this is very difficult due to the crowded situation of the non-commercial bank. Moreover, legal im- plications could arise as smaller stations would have to. contend with the possibility of a stronger station's interference. This .is a result of an F .C. C. deregulation which offers little band protection for 10 watt stations, which are basically.-- powerless over higher wattage stations. . As far as WRUC's ability to cope. with this increase in power, station managers and D.J.'s alike are confident that there are enough professional (as well as talented) individuals involved within the station to make the move a success. Musically, they are backep by a very efficient record service which sends them on the average of 12 promotional records each day. Although the FCC has not yet given the station approval of their ap• plication, they are assured that all is in order and that they can only wait patiently. 1'\'• ~ # ,·~ change in this year's meal plan program. Meal tickets can now be used at both the West Cafe and Hale House as well as being worth credit at the Skellar f$1.25 for lunches and $2.00 .for dinner). At present they are not to be used at the Pub; but there .. is a 75-80 percent chance, ac- cording to Mr. Mazzone, that they will be worth credit there during the winter term. discussed meals. Those students who choose to eat vegetarian meals while on the meal plan, will be able to do so on the same basis as last year. This entails working out menus with Mr. Mazzone which will be cooked at West CoHege. Mr. Mazzone did not say where or what these people at the past Freshnien ''Activities'~ Successful . week and a half while the vegetarian meal plan was not in service, but 'as of this Wed- n~sday he hopes to have met with these people and dealt With the situation. Mr. Mazzone was DAVID WOLLIN As the week's school work continues to pile up rapidly, one can vividly remember the past week's specia·l orientation activities which bade so many in-coming .Freshmar:1 a warm welcome. One of the first special events on the agenda for the newly arrived Freshman class was the Fourth Floor· I ,uggage Spr.int. This annual tradition at Union College in· volved parents, students, and unsuspecting RA's & O.A. 's alike. The winn~r .of this year's relay was Dick Hertz who successfully carried the following up to the fourth floor West Dorm (Room 423) all at once: 4 suitcases, 2 stereos, 1 rug, 2 speakers, a set of en- cyclopedia, and a Steinway piano. The winner was rewarded with an all expense paid trip to Ellis Hospital in Schenectady. Another favorite of the Freshman class was the ever-present Midni:ght Fire Drills. The winner of this event was Seymour Bodee for the most consecutive times caught either showering or sleeping· in the raw when the alarm sounded. He was rewarded with fourteen girls' phone numbers and six marriage proposals. The third and definitely the most challenging of all of the events scheduled was the in- famous All-l\'ight Stand. This entailed not only surviving a party at 4th floor West Dorm. r The ··ZOO\ J, but also being able to stand up on his or her own two feet and actually being mentally conscious when it is all over. There haven't been any winners of the covetted \Lush\ award- yet, but the guys at the ''ZOO\ keep trying. The last event, and' certainly the most enjoyed of aU the orientation activities is the High and the Mighty. This event occurred in the cafeteria where you either have to be very mighty or very high to eat the food sitting (or standing) in front of you. This year there were no winners but unfortunately there was one loser. An unidentified Fresh- man was bitten to death by an improperly cooked meatball which doctors tried surgically to remove. Services will be held at Peter Pogrom's Pizza Parlor next week. Regrettably, school is here and these orientation activities are. now just a memory in the past. Never- theless, these events will never be forgotten and soon new Freshman will be arriving ready to dive into these same virulent activities.\ ' also asked if a nutritionist had been hired at one point, but this person had since left the food service. He tlescribed the food service as an unnecessary cost and .said tnat book-s on nutrition were used to plan balanced meals. When told that other schools of comparitive size have nutritionists on their staffs, Mr. Mazzone pointed out the Union had one of the lowest priced meal plans at ~ small private college, and part _ of holding down the cost was not having a nutritionist. He also remarked that Union offers the most flexible meal plan that he knows of, on a campus of its size. The fact that students can choose three different places to eat and the number of meals they wish to take, points out the variety that the service offers ac..: cording to Mr. Mazzone. He also stressed that the Union College Food Serv;ice is part of Union College and that it should be considered part of the college ''community\. All profits that are not used for improvements of service are returned to the college, and of the 150 people the food · service hires, · 120 are students. Mr. Mazzone claims accusations- that he runs a ·•monopoly\ are false, as all he is trying to do is to improve food service at Union College. 'Libra.ry Division· Heads Named Mr. Mazzone hopes that his improvements will be of a benefit to all students, both in expense and convenience. He also reminds that there is a Schaffer , Library at Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., has adopted a table of organization including all library faculty and staff that groups them by function, Jean Pelletiere, library director, has an- nounced. Three groups-information services, collection develop- ment. and technical processes- have been established, each with a designated head. Previously, all faculty and staff had report.ed directly to the library director, Pelletiere said. Loretta Walker, associate professor and head of reference, has been named head of information services, which includes circulation and reference. . Ruth Anne Evans, professor and assistant library director, has been naflled head of collection development, with responsibility for overall collection development policy. Evans, who remains assistant library director, will be con- · cerned with the overall quality, depth and breadth of the library collection. The bibliographer p.nd archivist will report to her. Janet Gregor, associate professor, acting head of cataloguing and government doclUllents librarian, has been Area Calendar DANCE Sept. 29. Matthew H. Matarso of Gui_lderland, New York, Assistant Counsel to Assembly Minority teader James Emery, will be the Master of Ceremonies for the 29th Annual · Dinner-Dance sponsored by the Republican Committee of the Town of Guilderland. The affair will take place at the Ramada Inn-Sile Restaurant in McKownill, New York at 6:30 p.m. , Sept. 29-The excitiilg Jose Limon Dance Company will appear at the Proctor's Theatre in Schenectady at 8: i5 p.m. Sponsored by the Albany League of Arts and Capital Newspapers, this Company is recognized as one of the most talented and prestigious modern ·dance companies in the nation. For further information call 449-5380. LECTURE State Education Department at SUNY Albany, will present a lecture on Henry Roth's CALL IT SLEEP, an ·immigrant novel of childhood. The presentation will be held at the New York State Museun1, 1: 30 p.m. For further information, call the Capital District Humanities Program at 457-3907. Oct. 3-Russell Sage College will present Philoophy Forum: \Computers: Liberation or Dehumanization.?\ The lecture will take place at McMurray Gale Lounge at 7: 30 p.m. For further information, call 270- 2344. MUSIC Sept. 27--Sax:ophonist Earl Howard will be appearing at SUNY Albany Performing· Arts Center. The concert will be held at Recital Hall at 8:30p.m. For further information, call 457- 8606. Sept. 29-Lecture Recital by Sept. 27--Anwrican Indian intP-rnationally renowned Day will be celebrated at the violinist l''elix Galimir will take Albany Public >Library on place at SUNY Albany Per- Thursday, September 27 at 8:00 forming Arts Center. The p.m. Seneca Indian Esther Blue recital will be held at Recital Eye will speak about life on a Hall at 10:00 a.m. For further Seneca Reservation. For fur- information, call 457-8606. ther information call Fran Sept. 29-The fabulous Denny Lewis, Public · Relations E. will be appearing in Concert Director, at 449-3380 (mornings) at Cohoes Music Hall, Cohoes, or 869-9317 (home). NY. Showtime is B:OO p.m. S e P t . 3 0 - - J E W IS H Sept. 30-A series of three AMERICAN LITERATU~E Sunday evening <:hambermusic FESTIVAL. On Sept. 30, the concerts by the Capital Chamber Artists begins Sept. 30, 4:00-5:00 p.m .• in the Auditorium, New Yo1·k State Museum; Empire State Plaza. J.S. Bach's ··Musical Offering\ and other compositions will be performed by harpsichordist Leonard Kastle, guest artist· and nationally known com· poser, with violinist Marv Lou Saetta, cellist Martha \Rohr· oaugh and flutist Irvin Gilman. Oct. 2--A ,JAZZ DEMON- S~RATION, with Nick Brignola Will be held at the Junior College of Albany at 11:30 a.m. in the Little Theatre. For fur- ther information call 270-2344. THEATRE Sept. .27-The Empire State Youth Theatre Institute witl be holding open auditions for eight adult male roles for its production of Shakespeare's Macbeth. Auditions will be held on Sept. 26 and 27 at 7:30p.m. in the Institute's rehearsal room. For further information contact the Empire State youth Theatre Institute at 474-1199 or 474-1108. Sept. 27--THE ACTING COMPANY will perform Paul Foster's ELIZABETH I directed by the noted ·Romania~ director Tivia Ciuler at the University at Albany's Per- forming ·Arts Center. For further il!formation ca11457-8606 or 458-7530. named head of technical processes, which includes acquisition, documents, reclassification, · and cataloguing. ·'These three heads have taken on a great deal more responsibility,'' Pelletiere said, and, as members of a sort of \cabinet will offer recom- mendations on policy and hiring on behalf of their units. In a related change, all non- faculty librarians have been placed in one of four titles reflecting their functions. The titles are library associate specialist; library technical specialist; library technical assistant; and library assistant. DON'T let 4 years of col-lege go by the boards. John Sexton's ~SAT, GMAT & GRE Courses. John Sexton Tesr Pre-pararwn courses offer vou dtstmct ad· vantages tn preparing for these all tmportant tests: eaest, most recent ma1erials 8Substantive curricula ( not just timings ) eTeam instruction by a . superior faculty 8Practic:e e~eams •Counseling e\Live;'' instruction ( not just tapes I <~~Substantial stu~y materials eExtra· ·help sessions 9 LSAT/GRE/GMAT Classes Now Forming Compare John Sexton Course advantages With others, then for informaUon call 869-73'46 JOHN SEXTON TEST PREPARATION CENTER 1723 Central Ave. Colonie, N.Y. 12205 ~~~·;:~\=~==~~~~~~--~----~~··~ ~·+·~··~·~·~·~~·~··~·~··~··,·~~~- ·~~~~~~~~~~~J '>, •••• ·\. ,. .-.·· ..... ~J ,,.,.' . )' I J\ ~. •· \\' .., .. .,. • ..._ .. .,..-...,. .... -..,•.to,. ... _,c...,,._ ... .,-,.•~\!' -\''\' \T \'\\ ... ,. .,...,.. -\ ... ~ ;, - .,. • ~ ·•• '*'•~• • .,..,......,., . ._. ¥.,. ..,......, ...., ·~· -~1\4\\·Wo \'l\'!\~'r<;:\\4i\t.\._\o .. • .... .,· ~·; .... , t·~ ..... -:i'.,._.._ . ....,.._oe~..e,.- A ' l.- » .,_. ''-\~\'~ M•-....•,~..a:V~~~JI\'...VL't\'Jf tr#'irr'ff'lt

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS) September 27~ 1979 ·arts Ho-Hum: Road To· Kingdom Come? by GA:RYGLAUBER playing. Hence, you were bored: the devil was bored, and the worlds above and below were steeped in proper boredom. Times have changed. The devil is no more now than feisty material for boring pablum of screen and Bantam paperback. Satan's revenge is the horror of 'boredom. them so boring. I feel that, with the proper training, an average middle-class person can attain higher levels of boredom. Perhaps you are not rich enough to dwell on for endless hours of self-pity, but you can learn. If you waste enough Of your time, people wm be fooled into believing that you have the time to spare. You will soon enter into a new circle of in- dependent bores, an upper echelon o.f society that's right on board for the entropy express. Boredom is your key to the doors of social success. 0 .. 0. f ' ulture Boredom, it is said, can be a writer's best friend. I was not J.lways one to contend eagerly the value of inactivity as a -;timulus for creativity, and yet I have learned that time is of the quiescence. Creativity is easy to conjure up, difficult to use c'orrectly, and somewhat less dear than plans· ·Of outside en- tertainment. Alas, if I could only bottle it for the practical use of other poor artistes who find that they have only too much to do with their time. For, it appears, I am bathing in great boredom, and the excess of it surfeits. any original ap- petite I may have had. Such was the history of hebetpde. Today, professors \in-the know\ have recognized the merits of boredom in the C'lassroom. Few students are able to handle a surefir,e barrage of boredam. At any rate, it keeps a class well in hand. I think that such a detaHed discussion denotes proper definitions to properly .clarify positions. It is safe then to assume that we are talking about middle-class boredom. The lower or working classes are not so easi·ly bored because they can't afford the time or the lack of effort. It is easy to see why all the other people find This whole tedious business of tedium itself gets rather an- noying to read. its no great fun to write either. In fact, its rather boring for me. But its creative. Which gets me back to my original point. Boredom can be a writer's best friend. Ask any writer. On second thought, try to think of something more interesting to ask. You wouldn't want to bore the writer ... or would you? Fall Dance Info Record Review: Interest in Dance at Union has grown much since· its in- ception. In 197l, D&nce began with a group of six students working on an improvisational basis. The fi:rst technique clas~es were offered in 1972 with only twelve students and two classes a week. By last year, the When in a situation such as my present one (dismal dilemma of the first order) the first thing to do is to remain calm. Actually, one may find that it is the only thing to do. A too-calm demeanor may falsely lead others to assti_Jne that you have passed on to some other boring haven, taken your soul and left the body behind to excite others. Be careful not to get this calm. Boredom, at its best, requires a delicate balance. Such a balance protects from excitement and wards- off yawns and other somnolent expectations which ruin the restlessness of waking boredom. You must fend away the urge. to sleep. Sleep is a threat to boredom; a real threat. Sleep has its own time and place - it is a necessary bodily .function. Boredom is more of a refined art. It is important to remember this. Boredom is an attained thing. Not everyone can be bored. It requires an iota of intelligence and an inkling of interest to add some spice to the eventual frustration of the matter at hand. Boffo a.:s2's-What? Twiddling thumbs were the vogue of boredom in Victorian times. They believed that idle hands were the devil's playthings and so, the strategy here was to keep the devil from by STEVE MONOSSON When I walked into WRUC last Monday to assume my duties as DJ for the afternoon, I noticed that a certain record - had been designated as receiving heavy airplay. I was taken aback by this discovery, as I had become accustomed to the usual dross which com- prises this list, the kind of music that if you could water your favorite plant with it, the plant would surely die thereafter. Could it be that the campus music scene was \rising from the dead?\ Friends had told me that Joe Jackson was a big success, and I smiled at that and imagined 3,000 dozing audience members sparking to r.,..,.J\ ...... .,.J\. ....... ..,...,..,..,.,J\ ...... .,...,1 ~ ~- . -- ~ § . § § § ~ Sinai Images ~ § New born baby eye waters § § Gurgle to the rhythm of motherly winds S 8 Cradling the sea 8 ~ With the advent of the setting sun ~ 8 Brown sugar mountains crystalize § ~ Dreams seeping from gently lapping waters § the chorus of \Is She Really Going Out Witb Him?\ But this record's presence on the heavy airplay list was an unequivocal testament to the renaissance of the Union popular music scene. Yes, THE B-52's are on that heavy airplay list at this very moment and it is deservedly so, because it is one of the top albums of 1979. The B-52's sound like ... well . . . I'm tempted to regurgitate the salutary descriptions used by other, more well known rock critics, but I will opt for something more basic -and original. It's the kind of music you could imagine playing the game TWISTER to on a beach in lower Dementia, complete with (these are lyrical ex- cerpts) \Mermaids waving\ \V:olcan<'les of lava love'', and \Girls from Planet Clare\ arnvmg in \Plymouth Satellites\ to end the scene to order a sumptuous platter of '\Rock Lobster\. This may sound absurd and unintelligible, but that's the essence of the B- 52's. One may be tempted to say ·~hat?\ upon first listening, but afterthe second spin, you're sure to be writhing to the rhyth- ms of these bargain basement bikini hoppers. This is real rock and roll dance music, and with a little luck and a lot of airplay these people just might catch on. I'm running out of steam and time. Do the B-52's a favor and give them a try. Watch out - they might just show up at your next beach party. American Collegiate Poets Anthology International Pub I ic.ation is sponsoring a National Collegiate Poetry Contest. Open to all co.llege and university students desiring to have their poetry an- thologized. :_ $100 1st Prize $50 2nd Prize $25 3rd Prize $15 4th Prize $l0 5th Prize DEADLINE OCT. 31 Check this spot for more information next week § Greet the night air § 8 And thread their needles I •-·-·---------------------..JI § Through a patchwork quilt hazy mist ..----------------------. 8 8 § ~ Exciting... . .. Unforgettable... ...Entertainment S Enter the mist and feel a· dream ~ ~Lazily, the waves are awakening to a fading -- A l E h b ,j.' §Moon Sensationa x i ition oJ 8 Se~d your poems to Vicky Eddy and Neil Skolnik, Finelines ~ :-1 E 5 p S Editors, Box 1738. Any legible work is welcome. Please give your 8 e\e<:!:O'~· • • • S name and phone n.wnber. Poems will be printed unsigned ifJS -'(. Clairvoyance equested. Let's hear from you! . =r..r...rJ.r~..r.r..r..r..r..r~.r.cr..r...r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..rJI)'\J\..r..r...o-J.rJ\..rJ.J .. 1st Act: 2nd Act: MC: Verna Lowe Tom Farrell Karen Weisgerber & Rachel Gertzog Andy Yuan Tickets on sale 8 p.m. in first floor lobby, Carnegie Hall. Shows at 9&11. _ with Power of the Mind Ronny Romm America's Youngest Entertaining Psychic Tues. Oct. 2 9:30 Memorial Chapel $1 Presented by Social Committee . ~, . . . . program had grown to include 60 students with seven classes a week. Because of this strong· in- terest and the work of the Dance Club, the Arts Department, and instructors; Dance will take the next step in developing the program. In order for students to become stronger and im- prove, more classes will be offered in three dance forms - Modern, Ballet, and Jazz. Creative and performance aspects will' also be developed through compositiorr -and workshop classes. Ail students from beginner to advanced are invited to add their energies to the program. · Space is still available in the following classes: Modern Dance II - 12:30 - 2 Tues. and Thurs. Composition and Improvisation- 4:30 Thurs. Intermediate Ballet- 4:30 Fri. Dancers who are interested in performing may audition for the Workshop which will meet on Thursday evenings at 6:25. Further information can be obtained from the \Arts\ Office or president of the Dance Club; Paul Feinsot, (377-3273). Films by BRIAN KENNER As we are besieged by Fall doldrums and weekend time that should be spent in ways other than the pursuit of knowledge, many have questioned the cinematic . prospects offered on campus. In answer to the demand, the Film Committee has come up with a fall season that should appeal to all Union tastes. For comedy fans, the ·classics Yellow Submarine; The Producers, and the zany spoof I Wanna Hold Your Hand are scheduled. In the genre of drama are An Unmarried Woman, The O.D.E.S.S.A. File, and the enduringly popular Gone With The Wind. In con- sideration of thos.e who enjoy a little blood and .gore, Invasion of The Body Snatchers (the ex- citing version, not. the--boring one), Mansion of the Doomed (not to be confused with \Dorm of the Doomed\ which depicts pre-exam-post meal plan dormitory life), and the \mind shattering A Clockwork Orange have been scheduled. In addition to this. mind- boggling array, an additional set ofTuesday night movies has been scheduled. The Three Stooges in Orbit, The Black Bird, The Marx Brother's Monkey Business and Coconuts, and \Cartoons'' are arranged to stimulate campus intellectual life. On the othet· hand, Girls Who Will Do Anything, Vixen, and the controversial The Rocky Horror Picture Show. have also- been obtained for viewing . art Lo byw JoeJacl tight tlu:e.t College's Friday .r disappoint cancellati~ or1 proved Jackscm t infused it bible bel From '''I opening n cover of t song ''Ain' C<'lngregati Jackson's ly.rics am melodies. When I mediately modes of those whc normally looked sha to look sf because or like lookin someonen conflict al looking sha not looking .Joe san passion, pleading ''( \Don't wan latter on hi ti'm theM was the err the show. I to live the I problemstl edges of 1 Sharp. J gyrated be: shouted h strong indi· After ·'Geraldine Jackson ir fram the n1 much muc first,. the s, only brea1 br<'lught to sounding lil fire-and,.:bri Acti 1. The We $2.75.) 2. Evergr grant v 3. Wifey, perienc 4. The VII $2.50.) 5. My Me examin 6. Bloodl inherits 7. Scrupl riches 1 8. The Ar True st~ 9. Alien, t lers en 10. lllusior venture Compiled supplied t 1979.

OONOORDIENSIS, September 27. 1979 , Page 7 culture Look Sharp At Union by WILL HA1LLGRER Joe Jackson brought his very tight tlu:e.e piece .band to Union College's Memorial Chapel Friday night. From those disappointed by last spring's cancellation, the show they put on proved well worth the wait. Jackson took the chapel and infused it with the energy of a bible belt revival meeting. From '''Look Sharp,\ the opening nmpber, to Jackson's cover of the old Fat's Domino song '''Ain't That a Shame\ the congregation was treated to Jackson's satirically angry lyrics and eerie hyper-tense me1odies. When I arrived I was im- mediately aware of two distinct modes of dress. There were those who dressed as they normally do, <md those who looked sharp'. I had chosen not to look sharp.· I regretted it because once I got there, I felt like looking sharp. As I heard someone remark later; it was a conflict about being cool by looking sharp, and being cool by not looking sharp. Joe sang with plenty of passion, especially on the pleading \One more time,\ and \Don't wannabe like that.'' The latter on his forthcoming album t I'm the Man, due·6ln October) was the emotional high point of the show. It is an angry refusal to live the life dominated by the problems that linger around the edges of the songs on Look Sharp. Joe spasmatically gyrated behind the mike as he shouted his affirmation of strong individualism. After a song called ·'Geraldine and John,\ which Jackson introduced as being from the new album \which is much much better\ than the first,. the set had its first and only break. A podium was brought to the mike. Jackson, sounding like an old-time, hell- fire-and-brimstone minister, delivered a rambling sermon or:~ decadence, including the rampant pornography to be found in breast eolargement ads, and the sacrilege of people \doing drugs\ in a church. Behind him the band slid into the Qpening of \Stmday papers\ as the crowd went crazy ... well, at least the first ten rows. The . rest of the crowd had that bemused stoned-out look of mild boredom that one sees so often at concerts. The total lack of life displayed by a large portion of the crowd was effective.iy juxtaposed with the wild flop- dancing of Jackson and those upfront. Jackson rebu~ed the crowd for their flagrant lapse into a zombie-like state. Jackson closed the set with :an exceptionally spirited version of ''Got the time,\ the thirteenth song of the night. \Got the time\ is a song that grabs one's nerve endings with rusty pliers, and it is impossible for any living thing to sit still through. Somehow the vast majority of the crowd felt compelled to try the impossible. At the end of the song . Jackson was tituaHistically axe-murdered by the guitarist. For an er:1eore he did an energetic version of \Throw it away,\ and a sing-along version of the current Cheap Trick hit ''Ain't that a shame.\ -nckson's band is the same as the one he recorded Look Sharp with. It features Gary Samford on guitar, Graham Maby on bass, and Dave Houghton on drums. Even though this band is very tight there were no ex-· tended jams. They play straight ahead rock and roll, dispensing with such unnecessary rock frills as the macho-phallic, guitar-god image. Jackson rarely took a turn at the piano which was a shame because his staccato frills add a lot to the music. He also shunned the harmonica in favor of the melodica (Played by blowing in YEARBOOKS ·ARE INI See Mrs. Marra in Student Activities Office to pick them up Campus Papetbac.k r,estsellers 1. The World According to Garp, by John Irving. (Pocket, $2.75.) Hilarious adventures of a son of a famous mother .. 2. Evergreen, by Belva Plain. (Dell, $2.75.) Jewish immi- grant womqn's climb from pcverty on lower Manhattan. , - ·--- -··- ----'- --- ---·-- -- .. ----· -- -· i 3. Wifey, by Judy Blume. (Pocket, $2.50.) Housewife's ex-' pertences on road to emotional maturity: fiction. ~ ---- ------ ~ ·-~ • • L - - f 4. The Women's Room, by Marilyn French. (Jove/HBJ,: · $2.50.) Perspective on women's role in society: fiction. · -·--· ·------- ---·· ·--.-- -1 5. My Mother/Myself, by Nancy Friday. (Dell. $2.50.) Ani examination of the mother-daughter relationship. --<--..-~ ---- -- ,.__ '-\------~ J .; - I 6. Bloodline, by Sidney Sheldon. (Warner, $2.75.) Woman inherits power and international intrigue: fiction. --- 7. Scruples, by-Judith Krantz. (Warner, $2.75.) Rags to riches in the fashion world: fiction. -- -~ ------· --------·- ----~--~~--------- I . 8. The Amityville Horror, by Jay Anson. (Bantam, $2.75.)! True story of terror in a house possessed. 9. Alien, by Alan Deani=oster. (Warner, $2.25.) Space travel- lers encounter horrifying creature; fiction. ·---~--~ -··-· ··-··-- I 10. Illusions, by Richard Bach. (Dell, $2.50.) Messiah's ad- ventures in the Midwest: fiction. Compiled by The Chronicle of Higher Education from information supplied by college stores throughout the country. September 3. 1979. the end and pressing the keys on the side.), with which he added some nice fills. The warm-up band couldn't make it on time. One of Jackson's roadies treated the crowd to a short set the like of whichone usually hears in cafes where the performers are paid by passing the cup. He. did blusey versions 'Of ''Ain't misbehavin', '' and '\'Unchain my heart.\ He finished 'With \Life is just a bowl of cherries !so live it laughing it up),'' which he dedicated to any Philosophy majors present. Joe JacksoR live. Shemblech Private Eye In \Y ou~ve Got Some Case\ ~y G~RYGLAUBER Shemblech put on his delighted look whenever Willy walked into his office. \Willy its just great l\ ''Vat's dat?'·' said Willy ,in his best foreign accent. ·'The new case I'm working on. I wish I could tell you about it but-professional confidence, you know how this gumshoe racket is.\ Willy signed a sigh of despair. \C'mon Shemblech, just once. I won't tell anybody, honest:• Willy cleverly hid the tape recorder in his shirt. The cord ran up his shirt sleeve; the microphone was taped to the other side of his nose. He remained in profile while speaking, standing dangerously close to an el~ctrical outlet. \Its been a helluva day_ Let's talk over a drink, okay?\ Shemblech suggested. ··Good idea,\ Willy replied. Shembrech started to walk away. Willy remained where he was. \Aren't you coming? he asked. \Un-oh. Damn. Oh damnation and hellfire.\ Willy hurled invectiyes right and left. \What's the matter?'\ \Leg's paralyzed. Trick knee. Holdover from my y0uth. I used to do magic. Now it acts up on me. once in a while. Guess I'll have to stay right here, not moving at all, not one tiny in- ch.\ \Bad break, kid.\ Couldn't have happened to a nicer guy, he thought. ·\Can I get you something--aspirin or the hlike?\ \No thank you,'' he grimaced, \Just please tell me the story of the case.\ \Oh the case . . . I almost forgot..\ He sat down at the table with a bottle of bourbon. \Do you always sit with liquor bottles?\ Willy asked. \Habit from childhood. Sorry if it bothers you.\ Shemblech opened the bottle and started to . whistlethe national anthem, the way he always did. It put his friend at ease. \Are you sur~ you won't tell?\ he cautiously quizzed. Crazy old Shemblech, thought Willv. still asking me stupid que:-;tions. He remembered the fond times they had spent together in the lab at college, trying to invent new vegetables. That had been jolly good fun. Now Willy was a struggling double agent, working days as an assistant manager at the local A&P. \Sure I'm sure. My lips are mum. Mymwn's lipsarehused. And there's no one else I'd ever tell.\ · \Your word_ is my bond. It's good enough tor me, old pal.\ Shemblech was still worried that one day he would be asked to reveal his first name, which he had long since forgotten. \Where should I start?\ \\fry the beginning,\ mused Willy, an expert muser. \\Okay, here it is-the straight dirt.\ Shemblech produced a small bag of soil from within his shirt. How unusual, thought Willy. ··J bet you think that's unusual, the way I keep a small bag of soil inside my shirt?'\ \'~o. not particularly,\ Willy· bluffed.· \'Well its just recently that I've had to. Used to keep it in my trousers but ladies would get the \>Tong idea. Couldn't go any'where without people staring at me. \I kno\\.' how it feels,\ said Willy, \Vho knew, having had to cope with the problems of being a bit different. ''I was born without any teeth.\ '\So was I.\ responded Shemblech. '\Yes. but mine never grew in.\ WiHy smiled toothlessly. Shembleeh continued. \Let me explain. The other day I was sitting in mr office, feet up on the desk, trying to solve some easy murder cases. In walks this mysterious character who drops a coloring book on the desk and orders me to read it I looked at the guy real funny-like ·cause I thought I recognized the voice. He was dressed in designer jeans and looking fashionably cro-magnon with an earring through his chin. What stood out in my mind was the way he pronounced his 'esses'. The\' sounded like the word \dipthong' Well, good thing I've got an ear for business. I remembered the conversation en toto ergo swn. A cinch for a pro like n1e. He asked me to marry I.VJr. Murray's daughter Mary. I didn't fall for it. Murray's. ·daughter is Marie. His Uncle Lou's name was Mary. It was just a clever hoax and I knew it. I played along and read the coloring book out loud until the guy walked out. ~Mysterious, huh?\ Shemblech leaned back and lit up two cigarettes, offering one to Willy. Willy shook his head \no\, so Shemblech smoked them both. \Things were pretty suspicious. I got my boy working on it. Pronto. Biff Pronto. Best flatfoot around, straight out of the institute. I tell you, this kid's incredible. He found a police sketch of the guy working from just a description of his voice. He's Don Otcallme, which I figure's an alias. Back~ wards its emilactonod. It makes , no sense at all. I llloked him up in the phone book anyway. He was there in the white pages. My fingers were itching to put the cuffs on him once and for all. Lock him up where he couldn't do us any harm. Only one problem. I had nothing on h . \ un. \What about the police sketch?\ Surely they had something on him?\ ··~ah. Bum luck again. The sketch was done at a policeman's ball. The guy paid to have it done but he never picked it up. That face irked me no end. It was the face of evil ·'What about the police sketch?\ Surely they had something on him?\ \\Nah. Burn luck again. The sketch was done at a policeman's ball. The guy paid to have it done but he never picked it up. That face irked me no end. It was the face of evil itself. I couldn't sleep nights. Then I stopped 'sleeping during the day. Soon I was well rested and ready to continue the case.'' Shemblech leaned his chair back in further contemplation and fell reeling to the floor. Willy, startled by the clumsy action, let out with a nervous sneeze. His body jolted forward and the tape recorder fell from his shirt onto the floor where Shemblech lay, stunned. Shemblech glared at his friend. \What's that?\ he demanded. ··A tape recorder. Its for m~ heart. I have troubles with it.\ Shemblech was a hit wary still. He wanted to know more. \Oh yeah?\ \Yes.'' said Willy, ··r couldn't afford a pacemaker so I kcer this tape recorder ih my shirt instead. It plays a tape of a normal heartbeat and I try to keep the pace. It works fine and it keeps me and my wallet feeling great.\ Shemblech blew out a sigh tll relief, returning to his chi<H· \Whew he exclaimed, ··for , 1 minute there you had II c worried. I never knew you h. d heart trouble.\ Willy wiped his nose and pt:t the recorder back. \So whert: does the soil come from?'' \Gosh Willy, I never knew you were into science. Th·' whole damn earth is made t· · the stuff. Rocks, erosion, wh. • can say? The chicken or the egg, that's what I'd like tt> know.\ \No you idiot, the dirt in your bag there.\ \Oh the stuff came from under a thorn bush.\ Shem- blech rose. \I don't get it.\ \Keep your ears peeled. Last ~veek I was down at the club, playing some late night hop- scotch with the bosy. I was on a streak, eagles, doublets, Continued on page 10

.... Page 8 OONOORDIENSISJ September 27J 1979 Groups will be arranged. at the most convenient times, usually .• in the late afternoon or ev.~ning. If you would like to join, please come to the Arts Department Proposal Deadline i · office and fill out a form with information on yeur in- strl:lmental training and'' preferred times of rehearsal'. The deadline for proposals to : the Internal Education .Foun- · daUon ~n. ~wo categ.orie§-- · student-Imttated · research . projects and ''educationally · mnovative\ projects-falls on October 15. ·Notification for . awards in both categories will · be made by November 15. The deadline applies to . proposals for projects to be • undertaken during the winter · · and-or spring terms. Proposals for student- initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed . to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Assistant to the Provost's office on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Last year, in its second year of operation, I.E.F. made aw~rds totalling $86,49~to 43 proJects. The approved projects were among 72 requests for a total of $152,998. Some $125;000 has been provided by I.E.F. for the 1979-80 academic year. To date, twelve projects totalling $60,277 have been approved. Inquires about I.E.F. and proposal deadiines should be directed to the Assistant to the Provost. BULLETIN BOARD Music Practicum You can get one pass-fail course credit for three tertns of individual music lessons or chamber music ensembles with Union faculty or adjunct faculty. (see p. 64 of current catalogue) You can also learn and play without bothering with credit if you wish. Individual Music Lessons- Mrs. Hamilton, in Room 205 Arts Building, has a complet~ list of approved instructors in Voice, all Keyboard, Wind, String, and Brass instruments. Chamber Music Ensembles- Instrumental and vocal groups, coached by faculty members will be forming this week: Professor Susan Britain of the Psychology Department is a candidate for tenure at Union. Persons wishing to contribute to her eval~:~ation for this promotion should c.ontact Professor Robert Wells 1 History Departm,ent), Cha-irman of the Ad Hoc Committee, Helena Rirecka i Biology Department), Rudy Nydegger (Psychology Depqrtment), or Herman Zimmerman (Civil Engineering Department). Professor Jean Pelletiere, Director of Libraries at Union College, has volunteered to serve as Chairman of the 1979 United Way Campaign among employees at the College. Professor Pelletiere will coordinate the Campaign with tile help of Unit'ed Way volun- teers in other departments. Film presentations and speakers are available to promote participation in the United Way Drive which rais.ed $11,125.00 at Union CoUege last year. The overall United Way Campaign has a goal of $1,650,000 to support more than 30 human service agencies, and programs in Schenectady County. It is the one annual drive for those who give where they work to support voluntary human services in Schenectadv. Additional information may be obtained by contacting Professor Pelletiere or calling United Way of Schenectady. County at 372-4761. Professor Edwin B. Allaire of the Depa'rtment of Philosophy, University of Texas at Austin, well-known for his essays on such philosophers as Berkeley and Wittgenstein, will give a seminar on \Kant and 7 + 5 equals 12\ on Monday afternoon at 4:30, October . 1 1 in Humanities 213. There will be refreshments and informal discussion afterwards in the Humanities Lounge. Watson Travelling Fellowship Program UNION COLLEGE ~'lo .. ' .... 1 r,o'il' ... ~· ~<t.r; ~·0 .,._.., \\'~·\ HOMECOMING \\- WEEKEND OCTOBER 19,20,21. ·laSsifie()s Once again Union College, together with 47 other colleges and universities, has been asked to nominate four can~ · dictates for the , Watson Travelling Fellowship program r 70 FeHowships wiH be awarded during the coming winter). All graduating Seniors are eligible, regardless of sex, ·race, Pation:ality, undergraduate · program, previous foreign expetience or career plans. There are wide limits to the purposes for Which the Fellowships may be used: in general it may be said that they are intended to enable any newly graduated students to spend a year abroad (i.e. out- side North America) in the independent pursuit of almost any conceivable interest, provided that it will not involve extended formal study at a foreign university. The · FeUowships are worth $8,,000 each f$11,000 foT· married students). They must be used during the year irrunediately following graduation. Completed applications must be reeeived by Jhe O~lle:ge's · Nominating Committee not later than Wednesday, Oct. 10: if you wish to apply, you hav:e only a short time to tbink about your preject and write up your proposal. Final nominations will be made by the. College and submitted to the Watson Foundation by November 1. The ·final award by the Foundation will not be based solely on academic performance, but will also take into account such things as breadth of -interest,. powers of leadership, and the nature and practi~ability of the proposed project. Seniors who are interested in the program should consult Qle as soon as possible. ' , Harry Marten F acuity Liaison Officer Department of English Humanities 216D Deutscher Mittagstisch im Studentenlokal (The Pub) jeden Donnerstag von 12.30-1.30. Wir · laden alle deutschprechended und deutschbenden Frauen und Manner vom · Union College herzlichst ein. Komrnen Sie und unterhalten Sie sich mit uns. . Marketing-Com'munications Competition for Students Philip Morris Incorporated has announced its -eleventh annual Marketing-Communi- cations Competition · for Students. The competition is designed to provide an op- portunity for students nation- wide to sharpen their mar~eting and communication skills. A first place award of $2,000, a ~econd place award of $1,000, and a third place award of $500 will be presented to the winning teams in both graduate and undergraduate categories. In addition, student represen- tati~es and faculty advisors will be invited to corporate headquarters-in New York City or another corporate location to discuss their proposals with Philip Morris executives. Students are invited- to formation abo.ut the com- p~tition, please contact Gerry f1:lzzo, Cort1petition Coor- dmator, PhiJip Morris Incor- porated, 100 Park Avenue, New York, New York 100l7.) The New York Times is now . available at vending machines • l?cated in Carnegie and the library entranceway. For only . 25 cents per issue. Local newstands and the Campus Bookstore ate charging 30 cents. If you are still interested in having the N.Y. Times · deliv~red to you~ door every rnorm~g or just Sundays, you can still subscribe. Call372~5593 · for details. -------------- Stereo compo.nents, calculators, rock bottom prices. Over 50 top brands. All fully · warranteed. Contact Jeff Esakov, 370-6558. PLACEMENT · Union College to .participate in . · Career-Employment Options Program. Union College has joined with oth~r area colleges. to bring in 50 busmess,. government agencies and service organizations to speak to coliege students about available career paths for a two-day period this fall. The program, entitled \October· fest: Easiness, Government and Service,\ will be -held Friday, October 5, 1979 from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m., and Saturday, October 6, 1979, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. It. will be held at the Union College Field flo use in Schenectady, New York. A spokesperson for the planning committee stated \0 , · ur program ha.s been pl~nned :with three purposes in mmd. First, the program will serve as an informational vehicle so that students may gain a wider perspective of the options which are available. Second, to allow interested students and employers an opportunity to establish initial contacts. Our last objective for the Octoberfest will be to fur- ther ramiliarize employers and college staff with each other's needs.\ They continued, \'At t)le same time we will be trying to create an air of enthusiasm excitement and festivity.\ ' In· addition to the college sponsors of the Octoberfest . the Hudson-Mohawk Associatidn of Colleges and Universities and the . .Schenectady County Chamber of Commerce have been active in developing the program. The planning comm'ittee member concluded by saying \all of our responses fron:i . participating employers have been very enthusiastic;!. Many of them will be bringing exotic displays of their product lines and services. There is no doubt that there is a great deal of benefit to be derived by not only the students but by everyone involved.\ self and work -social changes in the 80's Participating faculty members are: Susan Britan, Ps~chology; Jan Ludwig, Philosophy; ·Byron Ni:chols Political Science;. Bruc~ Reynolds, Economics; and Peter Tobiessen, Biology. Summer Employment Opportunities Rochester Products is in- .· terested in freshman, • sophomore, and junior · Mechanical and Electrical · E~gineers and Computer Science majors. Please pick up an application in Placement as soon as possible i.f you are in- terested. Please check Placement for ' e>ther summer opportunities. HELP WANTED The Arts Dept. is looking for a student to work as a slide binder approximately 8 hrs.-wk., $2.90 per hour .. J;>reference will be given to someone with training in Art History. Neatness and manual. dexterity required. Applyto Virginia Bush, 6201, or Florence Dellorio, Slide Curator, in Room 102. . Disc jockey available. Large diagonal-small parties. 50's, 60's, 70's, disco. 399-3603. ' ~ LOST & FOUND Grey cat with white feet left on campus in June, needs home. Are you its owner or willing to take it? Very affectionate. Call 346-0568 and ask for Angela. PERSONALS IK: Your eyes say \no no,\ but ... Happy birthday Mira Love Animal, Vegetable, and Normal Happy Birthday Pat Love Ellen and the beepers Bee Stomper: Don't turn 9uban. I miss you, Love, Buddy Iris: Happy Legal Birthday. Attention all literate people: I <:1m hereby putting up the first bid for a senior thesi~. It must have something to do with American History. I'm open to suggestions. Please contact me as soon as possible. My advisor wants my~topic this week. Will pay for quality. A or A- ... $200. B or less . . . forget it. Debbie in 362 ... Welcome to the first of many personals . . . Bob 3rd floor Davidson South throws the best parties . . . even if I do happen to miss them. Maybe someday . . . Hi Laura and Marlene! . develop a marketing- Faculty and Student Dialogue communications project related on \Making a Choice for the ButBaaaaaab, then how am a to Philip Morris Incorporated or 80's.\ Wednesday, October 3, gonna have my tea? What's a dildo? any of its non-tobacco products 3:30 p.m. at Strauss lAJunge. and operations. A distinguished The Office of Placement and committee of marketing- Career Resources is sponsoring communications experts will an informal discussion session · \' Dear Rll Factor, For 3 judge selected·entries. for Liberal Arts Majors facing months we have longed for this The competition is divided the challenge of making post day, We've been patient and into graduate and un- college plans. A faculty panel und.erstanding I must say, Your dergraduate categories, and is presentation followed by a terrible habits have been so open to students currently dialogue with interested quite annoying PLEASE STOP enrolled in any accredited students will center around the STARING AT OUR GROIN!!! college or university. following topics: Bobby's Boys Undergraduate students must -values clarification and goal work in groups of three or more, setting and graduate students in groups -the decision-making process of two or more, both. under the -myths about liberal arts and Sue, I am vour roomate, not I love you, Jeff-E. counsel of a full-time faculty career Choices , Andrea . . . Tell your father! ~~~--------..;..------~\-..::·,i.· ,.lf~~ :..;,;.·::..J' i ~;~emt;>er. CE.9r (,atJ,gitioll.atc-' iiil·~ :, · ·.-the relaU,9nship between the -~Wl~·-~-..,..t;;.~AA*-1J.'-***'-f¥W~'fc{;·~·.;&.·>fitl'*'~ ... :.tf:-'lt$>ff: .• o.q~-\'* '\ .; . h 7..)! ~ ,.;.;,~.ll1/I',Wii4;,. · 4>. •.• , ... _ .... 111l1!1iili3J'Jti'V~-IW.NIO'~Io1~~,._'\W'V.>lle!f<<ll;;~·:4·' bl-.11' · • · ' 1:1 , • · . '~' · 9 ~ &. $' 'J'.-.--~~~~~.o:~~~-....7fi.o.~~~lt·a.'iC!Ii ... l6*4ll\l._..a ·a-t···;·~-~;~ ;w,-, •• ,._.'\IP!Ir~~>'!l·~---~4!'.:.'1f ~~· ~-!1&'-'tlr - Its a I greasy, pi2 R2H--p cleaner. strength h: discovered Yes, fr01 chemical b most resill was disco sizes wil throughout the NIBOR -J&HBr4 breath mh Siamesetw 2, people ir K: The docked.--M Cutie pie friendship. Saturday n To the gu Sunday:Th white shirt mustache a again , an4 mySterious D.C.S. H •

OONCORDIENSIS, September 27, 1979 Page 9 clasaifieos . .. ! . . . . . . Its a pizza looking, taco D.B. Sorry I missed your greasy, pizza face! birthday. Hope it was happy! G. R2H--powerful grease · P and J. Tom~GQod looks cleaner. Now industrial certainly do run in the family! strength has a new ingredient discovered in Poland: Nibor. Mrs. Lady loves MR. Man. Yes, from reversing the chemical bonding in the worldS Zeta Beta Tau . . . Great most resiUiant grease, NIBOR · Punch, Great Women, GR;EAT was discovered. Free Trial PARTY Thanks a lot! sizes will be distributed throughout Union College. Get • ZBT 223 Wow what a the NIBOR factor today! · night! ! ! ! ! ! Jeanette -J & H Breath Mints. J ollyhole breath mints are shaped like Siamese twins. Yes, they're 2, 2, 2, people in ane! K: The beached has been docked.--M, B, and A. Cutie pie, l.t won't ruin our friendship. I promise? Try: Saturday night. Me To the guys in the Skellar last Sunday: The one in the blue and white shirt, the guy with the mustache and the other gy, try again 'another time. Two my~terious ladies. Michelle and Fuzz: Is there a Fuzz for me'? Please?~Across the hall~ C a r o l- -t h e s e n s at i o n a 1 brunette I met at ZBT's party last· Thursday~I'm sorry for what I did and would like to make it up to you. Please call me. Bruce ZBT--You sheuld have · warned me about that great punC'h, but it was the best I've . •had in my 4 years here. . Linda--Can't wait to go skiing with you again. Joe . Adriana and John--Happy D.C.S. Happy 2 years. YLG · Birthday to two of my favorite people. I miss you! --love all the way from Miami, Barb McGregor-.:The \voice\ ,of Union's white trash is getting . louder, and wiU be heard! To my older sister-How's it going hon?-Lov.e, your little sister in the south. Marla, Amy, Ade-I hope that you are aware that as Soph.'s your U.S.D.A. rating has gone from ''prime\ to ground chuck- ah ha! Bird:...your mother is from Choes! .Retirem~nt ••• Contmued from -page 3 degree at the· college's 1978 commencement exercises, joined Union in 1931 as secretary in the news bureau. She became· secretary to President Fox in 1936 and since then served several college presidents as secretary and as assistant. Also retiring were Gertrude Antemann, circulation librarian at Schaffer Library; and Frances Miller, archivist at Schaffer Library. . . ' . . . ''· - :· . . -· Dean Relocated ••• · Continued from page -1 twelve hours of diagnostic believes this will provide more services. T~ere is. _now. a ~ew adequate health services to the contract With Ellis Hosptta'l students. providing two doctors .and a Dean Kellett has expressed physician's .assistant giving the optimism about ·the coming school six days per week of year and is confident that the diagnostic services. These policy changes are for the best. doctors are also available at He is also happy with his Ellis for students and in· location change and hopes formation ref!eived there will be students will take advantage of relayed back to the Health it. Center on campus. The Qean S T R ETCH your college clothing allowance at the -- Next-To-New Sho;p 14_2 Jay St. 374-2940 Qualit·y Clothing at Resale Prices OPEN: Tues . Sat 10-4 Th~:~rs till 8 p.m. ·what Do You Want . From College? · Financial se·curity? Add It To Your Schedule. ; lnctease your options from the_beginning.ln college, you are lobking ·ahead to some · good years. Your ultimate goal is getting that college degree, secure in the know- ledge that it will enhance · your financial future~ To,pmake that degree more meaningfu·l, you should in- crease your options froni the /beginning. And you can do that through Army ROTC. Army ROTC offers practi- cal leadership with hands-on adventure training .. You'll get management experience, which will develop your ability~ to accept greater responsibi-lities. You can be part of this ex- citing curriculum_ in the first Upon graduation you'll be wearing the Q<?ld bars of an Army officer. With the kind of experfence you get in Army ROTC, you're qualified for ,many careers, military or civi- lian. Army ROTC provides for both- either active duty sta- tus with a competitive start- ing sa·lary or you may pursue your fu 11-time civilian career while serving with a Reserve Component I National Guard . . unit. Get a good start. Increase your options from the beg in- ning with Army ROTC. ARMY ROTC LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD two years. And. there's no For More Information Contact: obllgation. You'll earn $100 a ~aptoin Michael R. Vick month fo.r tO monthS each o· .f. Science and Engineering Bldg. Rm. N 116 any Wednesday, 1 0-3, th,e last two years in, Army ROTC. or call 783~2536. ~· . \'!\ .. \''\!, ,,;,;.,\!\'! .• \\'\!\\! ............ ~-\\\!'- ____ ..,;.__....:.,. _______ -.-. =-. ----- .. -. ~- :.....:.:.:.:....:...:..~·-4-=---•ll!!\!\·~---nn.-~-~~-----·--·----~~t:Wnl'.n'i<~..J

.. ' .~- Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS, September 27, 1979 Forum· Meets. • • fast Continued from ~page 1 specify student membership on the Subcouncil on the Standing of Students-three students or 30 percent of the membership . . 4. An amendm.ent that would add a third student to the · Planning and Priorities Liaison Group. 5. An amendment to add two students to the Facul~y Review Board \to discuss with a vote matters of faculty review board policy and criteria\ though the students would not hear case by case discussions .. 6. Student membership in the Student Affairs CowiCil (five st1:1dents, two administrators, two faculty, and the method of ... choosing student membership was discussed, but that issue was deferred until' lat~r; The Student Forum also decided to fill the position o{ a Senior Class Representative (who will serve on the Formn and Agenda. Committee), and the Secretary of the Forum ( who will sit on the Forum and Tax: Committee ). The Senior Rep. will be elected bY seniors; the secretary will be elected by the entire student body. Petitions wHI be available in the Student Activities Office next week.~. free ... delivery 372-4441 Shemblech \· Copyr1<1ht 1970 NAVY OFFICER. Continued from page 7 . ctinkaderos, the works. In walks this shady lady who grabs my rock and says \I've got you with your leg up now.\ Then she pulls out a gun from heaven knows where, and threatens to YOU- GET •sPONSIBILITY THE MOMENT YOU GET THE STRIPES. A lot of big corporations offer you a big title. But how many offer a young college graduate a really important job? ~ As a Navy Officer, you don't have to wait to do a job thatcounts. We give you one as soon as you've earned your commission. A job with responsibility for the lives of others, and for millions of dollars of complex equipment. A job that requires skill and leadership. A job that Navy Officers have been doing proudly for 200 years. If that's the kind of job you're looking for, speak to a Navy recruiter. You'll find that Navy Officers have unequalled opportunities in fields like Nuclear Power, Aviation, and Engineering. Or call toll free 800-841-8000. (In Georgia, toll free 800-342-5855.) Early responsibility. It's what being a Navy Officer is all about. r~~~p~;;;;;ITY -:-------::-:1 I INFORMATION CENTER I I P.O. Box 2000, Pelham Manor, N.Y. 1~03 I I 0 Send me infonnation on Career Opportunities 1 I - in the Navy (¢G). · I I 0 Call me at I .. (Area Code) I NAME •. I First (Please PrinJ}. Last ~~ ADDRESS ________________________ __ I CITY STATE ZIP I I I I DATEOF: I Birth tCollege Graduation I tUniversity • GP ·I L CN 9/9 -----------------~~ NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. put it back unless I do exactly as she says. Well she looked like she meanfit, so I had no choice. · She asked me to dig up tfuis dirt from under a thorn bush on the corner of Needle and Vine. She · said she'd come back for it but i haven't seen her· since. That's why I try and keep it on my person. at all times. •• ''I know what its like,\ said a sympathetic Willy. \We had our sand:--long before we ever had our sandbox. Whatdoyou make of it?'' 'Well, Willy, to tell you the truth, I'm sticking with the obvious this time around. It seems like it can only be one thing: Lola. \LOLA!\ Willy screamed. It was a name that he . never wanted to hear again. \Lola\ re.pea:ted Shernblech. All the bad memories fell out of the closet. \Sorry about that.,'' said an apologetic Shemblech. \I really should keep that door closed.\ He closed the closet and con- tinued. \I know we haven't seen her since the war but it must be her. Who else could have known that I loved \Winnie the Pooh\ colOring books?\ • \It could have been a coin- cidence.\ Willy tried con- vincing himself but it was no use. His greatest enemy was back. TO BE CONTINUED ...... . Dutch r ~l .. , ····~ '\ • •·A•A~.& I H ll \ ~ - o_ ow f,c i ,·c \\ Pub- ·· · . ., ..... \\ .. Beef & Brew Starting this Sat~rday night 5-8 p.m. one pitcher of beer or carafe- of wine with every dinner. Unlimited bread and salad. . ... - BAI The wo1 team sta:rt€ a 2-1 win ov offense, ha· a highly Evidence press·ive displayed officials' ·• ·earlier this thre.e out 1 games', los 0, beating Sage and f T,he stro work of se Scarpinatc scoring offe ro-captain I leading a players. 19 Division II year. Ret1 scorers, E goals last E (15 goals), , goals), are returning and new stu freshmen H inner and I left wing. T Goodwin iE student fn macy, a University women's te1 :'-!ora Sosnol key goalie 1 departed s wartz, and Vol With six V• the Union varsity volh Lynne Bar pectations opening wit! September Memorial F Returning perienced m team are O'Donnell. • We lee

OONOORDIENSIS, September 27, 1.979 Page 11 Field Hockey Oper1s On Top BARB PLOTKIN every intention of tending goal as dynamically as her predecessor. 5port5 Field Hockey in acti.on. The women's field hockey team started off the season with a 2-1 win over a strong Hamilton offense, having set the pace for a highly successful season. Evidence of the team's im- press,ive stickwork were displayed at the pre-season official( rating tournament earlier this month, Union won thre.e out of their four 'mini- games', losing only to Sienna 1- 0, beating CobleskiU, Russel Sage and Hartwick. Coaching the Junior VaFsity team and assisting the varsity team is Deb Clarke, a physical education and visual and performing arts inajor from Russel Sage. She is a many· faceted .. individual who per- forms professionally at SPAC with the Philidelphia-Potsdam ChoraleGroup and Philidelphia Orchestra. Senior Jane Gulick, an .outstanding player who is unable to play this season due to a knee injury, manages the team. Ice Men to Host Poles T;he strong drfensive stick- work of senior co-captain Dot Scarpinato, a!!_d the high scoring offensive skills of junior co-captain Bathaina Shukri, are leading a dynamic 1 roster of players. 1979 may well be a Division III ·state tournament year. Returning junior top scorers, Ellen Heininger ( 16 goals last season), Ms. Shukri (15 goals), and Deb Downey (9 goals), are ably assisted by returning upperclasswomen and new students. They include freshmen Holly Howard at right inner and Emily Monosson at left wing. Teammate Stephanie Goodwin is the first female student from Albany Phar- macy, a part of Union University, to play for a women's team at Union. Junior :'-J\ora Sosnoff is taking over the key goalie position vacated by departed senior Debie Sch· wartz, and Ms. Sosnoff has Marty Morrison, the women's varsity coach feels that the team is stronger than last year's in terms of individual skillwork. What will make the season a success will be the blending of the improved in- dividual skills into a tight-team game. She feels that the field hockey team will be able· to equal or bett(!r last seasons -winning recocd of 9-3 even though the Union Women are playing more teams of in- creased difficulty since last year. Ms. Morrison's objectives for the team are 1 J to be selec.ted for the Division III State Tournament, which will take place on October 26-27 at Hamilton, 2) once selected, to take one of the top three spots in the Division, 3 l and to even- tually win the state tournament in Division III. Um~n College's 1979~80 hockey season will be highlighted by an appearance by the Polish Olympic team on February 10. The game, at Achilles Rink, will be played at 2 p.m. Union College hockey coach Charles Morrison, who is also director of the rink, said a ticket price range has not been established for the special exhibition, \but we want as many people as possible to be able to afford to come.\ Morrison termed the ap- pearance of an olyrripic team a rare opportunity for his Division II skaters. \I'm sure they'll learn something from playing a European team.\ The Poles wind up a four- game pre-olympic exhibition in Schenectady. Prior to the Unton game they are scheduled to play Notre Dame February 5, Volleyball 0 •t• • t• .·; p· ·tmts·' 1c With six veterans returning to the Union College Women's varsity volleyball squad, Coach Lynne Barta has high ex- pectations for their season, opening with R.P .I., at 7 p.m. September 26 at the Union Memorial Fieldhouse. Returning to form an ex- perienced nucleus for the young team are juniors Shiela O'Donnell, and Jill Thomson, joined by sophomores Lydia Canavan, Kelly Green, Lynn LeBlanc and Susan Marr. Coach Barta expects to take her starting lineup from among these veterans with the addition of seven newcomers, such as freshman Brenda Hugick of Mohawk. She will be one of the players to w13.tch this year according to Coach Barta, who has hooes that this team will better last year's successfull2•9 season. The R.P.I. game on the 26th opens a 21 match season for the team which will finish up in Novemb~r with the New York State Association of Inter- collegiate Athletics for Women Division III Volleyball Tour- nament. Welcome Back Union Fireside Pizzeria Inc. & Sandwich Pub Open Daily till 2:00 A.M. 393-0775 at 1631 Eastern Parkway (opp. Price Chopper) ~ichigan, February 6 and Ohio State on Feoruary 8. :vforrison expects to have about sixty skaters on hand for Union's first ice hockey prac- tice Oct. !5. Include~ will be 17 returnees from last year's squad, which was primarily an all-freshmen contingent. The Dutchmen play 28 games this year, 15 at home and 13 on the road. . Included are the annual Holiday Tournament games December 21 and 22 in · Achilles Rink. That fi.eld will consist of host Union, Oswego, Holy Cross and Hamilton. In addition Union will par- ticipate in the Williams College Tournament January 4 and 5 against Williams, Babson and Oswego. The schedule is made up entirely of Division II teams, with the exception of a road gaJTle at Colgate. In addition, Union will play two pre-season home exhibitions against Colgate November 3 and American International November 10. The. regular season opens November 17 at Division If power Elmira. Rugby Season Begins This year's Rugby team is looking forward to another successful season. The opposition is very tough this year and should prove a big test for the ruggers. Captains Eric Levine and Dave \Zuck\ ZuckerbraWl are very optimistic and ready to test their rugby prowess against the likes of Colgate and Boston College. Our best wishes to the club as they seek to conquet the following schedule: September 29-Albany Law School Home October 6-Albany State - Home October 13-Colgate Home October 20-RPI (Homecoming) Home October 27-MIT Home November 3-Albany Med. School Away November 10-Albany Old Green Away November 17-Boston College Away ·WELCOME FRESHMEN!! Fore,·er 'Youn~ Hair Desi~n · 7 41 Eastern Avenue (Short walk from College) 382-8490 Spec •al1st 111 Prec1s1on Cuts f.or Women & Men Henna. Perms, Frost, Color Reasonable Rates Open Tues.· Sat. Flexible Hours C~ll Now For Your Fall Style! M:m y to Choose From. ...-stanford MBA- REPRESENTATIVE COMING TO CAMPUS MONDAY, OCTOBER 8 A representative of the Stanford Graduate School of Business will be on campus. to discuss with interested students the exceptional educational opportunity of the Stanford MBA Program. Appointhlertts may be made through The Placement and Career Counseling Office The MBA Program is a two-year general management course of studies designed for men and women who wish to develop management skills to meet the broad respon- sibilities required in both the private and public sectors today and in the future. GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS STANFORD UNIVERSITY Stanford, California 94305 I . .

. ' Page 12 CONOORDIENSIS~ Septembe~ 27~ 1979 5pOrt5 ·-~. ; :' • ·, • ·,' • ' • ' ' • ' .: • • • • ' • : • ' • • • ': • • • • • • ' • • • • - - - • c '• • • .. Booters Win Opener NEIL KANNER Could Union's soccer team become 1979 NCAA soccer champions? A wealth of returning starters com- pi imented with some hopeful freshman make the prospect seem very feasible. Although many of the scoring leaders from last years team were lost to graduation, in- <'luding All-American John Kovacs, Coach Magee feels that the scoring wm be \rekindled and that defensively the team is ·iironger than in past years.\ The forward line consists of booters who combine rugged play with speed and endurance, all essential to a potent of- fensive attack. Co-captain Keith Miller, in his third year as a starter, will be 'relied upon for offensive leadership in addition to his scoring ability. A bulk of the firepower will also come from Hans Bukow, a native of Brazil. Rounding out the other forward positions will be Pete VanValkinburgh, Mike Can- ning, and Brian Shea all returning veterans from last years squad. The halfback positions will be manned by Peter Cholakis, John J{rum and James Stoothoff. Sophmore Cholakis is a returning starter who is regarded by coach Magee as an ··underrated ballplayer who is 9uick as we._ll as strong.\ Krum has good size and is looking to gain experience this year. He is expected to take--over Jimmy Manning's stopper position from a year ago .. Stoothoff is coming off an injury but is soon expected to be at full strength. He is considered to have a · strong foot essential at his halfback position. . Defensive play will be generated by senior co-captain Doug Crawford. This will be Crawfords third year as star- ting goal tender and will be counted upon heavily to make the key saves characteristic of his career \\\hile at union. Jamie Hilton, Mike :V1ulpeter, and Chris Walsh are the remaining defensive veterans. Hilton will be relied upon for his ex- ceptional speed and aggressive play. His style of play will mesh superbly with Mulpeter's keen sense of the game and ability to anticipate plays before they develop. Walsh, presently recovering from sickJless, will be another asset to the fullback position. Along with the starters Magee feels that there are many competent reserves which include Bob Fisclunan, Pete Maloy, and freshman hopefuls Bernie Zeifang, Mike Lewis, Evan Krinick, Andy Dreher, George Romas and Ben Levitan. Union's two pre-season scrimmages both ended in tie Sports Happenings Sept. 27 - Oct. 3 VARSITY FOOTBALL VARSITY SOCCER J.V.SOCCER WOMEN'S TENNIS CROSS COUNTRY FIELD HOCKEY WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL Sat. 29 at WPI Sat. 29 vs. Army Mon. 1 vs: St. Lawrence Wed. 3 vs. Hamilton Sat. 29 vs. RPI Wed. 3 vs. Hamilton Fri. 28 at Vassar Wed. 3 vs. Hamilton Fri. 28 at Vassar · Wed. 3 at Castleton Mon. 1 at LeMoyne Wed. 3 at Vassar Sophomore Dana John$1on rolls out for- a pass. scores. Against Cortland, a nati!:mally ·ranked division III team the game ended at one goal a piece. The annual alumni game ended knotted at two aH. Coach Magee felt that both Cortland and the alurnni were strong competiti-on fer };}is jelling squad and was pleased with the team's p.erformances. Union officially opened their season this past Saturday on the newly renovated Garis field. The field was not, however, the only thing looking sharp. Union played exceptionally well and handed the Kings Point Mariners their third defeat by a score of 3-0. Freshman Bernie Zeifang scored the opening and winning goal 20 minutes into the first period on a twisting head shot from five yards out. The game continued with Union Junior John Krum directing play. Runners Ready dominating the action and with Guarded optimism seems to five minutes remaining in the best describe the outlook for the first half Keith Miller put in the , Union cross-coW1try team this second goal on a direct kick. fall, with as many as five fresh- The final goal of the game was men running on the varsity. netted on a rebounding ball by Only team captain Peter Pete Van Valkinburgh. Union's Vielkind and Jack Connor are dominance was evident as they returning from last year's 4-3 out shot the Mariners 21 to 7. varsity squad. The most notable The game should give the absence from last year's team team confidence before playing is top runner Kevin Scheuer, a spring graduate who is now Army this Saturday on Garis serving as assistant to coach field. Army defeated the Ted Bick. Vielkind and Connor Mariners by only one goal in a alternated as the team's second previous matchup between the and third runners last fall and two teams. are contending' for Scheuer's The 1979 soccer schedule is a top position. competitive one. It consists of 4 Coach Bick hopes that a group division I teams, 2 division II of talentea freshmen will be teams and 7 division III teams able to compensate for a lack of · most of which have been in veteran runners. Headlining the NCAA or ECAC tournaments in list of incoming freshmen are the past. Coach Magee feels Adam Licht and Ed Arnheiter. that the team is ready to take on Both finished in the top 20 of the challenges they 'have in New York State last year and front of them and is confident were heavily recruited by other that the team will have a sue- colleges. Bick is confident the cessful year. ~ pair can step in and run with ,. Connor and Vielkind at the front this fall. · Also expected to compete on the varsity this fall are fresh- men John Casales and Dave Dellehunt. The final spot on the varsity could be filled by anyone of seven runners. Freshman Dennis Conteis and transfer student Joe Londa appear to be the best bets to fill the spot,• but freshmen John \Wizard\ Wisnewski and Duncan McKienzie, along with upper classmen Hugh Walsh, Tom Hallenbeck and Tom Kelly, could also be contenders. The women's team has also benefited from a strong recruiting year. Freshmen Danielle Cherniak and Inge Stockman and transfer student Laura Kronk appear to be the top candidates on the squad. Both the men's and women's teams opened their season Wednesday at Siena and return home next Wednesday to host the Hamilton Continentals. Gridders Downed ·At Home R.HOPE A young, tough Union College football team opened their season last Saturday with a 27-0 defeat to Bates College of Lewiston, Maine. Union's problems began with the opening kickoff as Bates returned it 90 yards for their first score. It proved to be all that Bates needed. Although Union had numerous scoring possibilities early in the game, such as a fumble recovery in the first quarter inside the Bates 20 yard, they failed to capitalize on Bates mistakes. Throughout the game Union defenders left the Dutchmen with good field position, but the offense couldn't get Union on the board. Tom Szot, Bates' senior halfback, ran back Union's season opening kickoff 90 yards for a touchdown. Failing to complete the extra point, Bates led 6-0. Late in the first quarter, A Union drive to the Bates 6 yard line failed to materialize. Again in the 2nd quarter Union showed signs of life on offense, but couldn't get the big play when they needed it .. The defense looked good, but tired, after playing the better portion of the second quarter. Bates added another touchdown late in the second quarter when Junior Quarterback, Brian Pohli connected with split end, Bob Simmons on a down and out pattern into the left corner of the end zone. The extra point was good and Union went into the locker room at Halftime trailing 13-0. Union did little to change things in the second half. Again, failure to complete the big of- fensive play and an eventually tiring defense resulted in no scoring for Union and two more touchdowns for Bates. Early in the second half the Pahli-Simmons combination connected again for another Bates score, this time up the middle. Bates final score was inconsequential, coming with about two minutes left in the game. The final tally was Bates 27- UnionO. On the whole, Union defense looked sharp, with only minor let-ups. Coach Tom Cahill was pleased with defensive play stating that ''the defense played as well as they have since I've been at Union\. He added, \There was some real hitting going on out there.\ Cahill complimented the fine .play of youngster Mike Jenkins. \He did a fine job at holding the defense together at middle linebacker.\ He also mentioned the play of veterans Bruce Melena; Ron Plumb and Mark Palomba. As for offensive play, Coach Cahill commented, \We hurt ourselves. The defense left us with goqd field position but the offense just couldn't get it in.\ Cahill also mentioned the problem of breaking in a new quarterback, sophomore Dana Johnston and a new center, Senior Bill Egen at the same time. \We were used to Andy Terranova who was ex- perienced. It was- Johnston's first game and he was shaky, but he'll come around, he's a real fine athlete. Even with the defeat that Union suffered in its opener. Coach Cahill is still optimistic and thinks that his team is also. \Our morale was great going into the first game and I don't think its going to change,\ s~id Cahill. \I think we can take every team on our schedule. One defeat is no reason to be discouraged.'' After sitting out the first part of the season for personal reasons. senior running back Rich Romer will probably be in uniform for Saturday's game. After missing the first two weeks of practice, Homer was voted back on the team by senior players. Says Cahill, \No doubt he can help the team but he'll have to earn back his position.'' The Dutchman are on the road this weekend at WPI. Young like Union, WPI is coming off a win over coast guard. Union defeated WPI last year. Vol. Mid~ Cc by Eve1 univer creditE Assoc: Highet sure assistll govern among educa reacc1 'basica includ univer. review commi side of field o study univer condu< analys areas Aecor Williar the M Comm sugge: barkec and f01 study • collegE deeme priorit With report: draftin ha.lfwa phase drive.' on Ma Athleti drafts, Drafti• Goven second article Gover F.nerg: eommi Prof. I _ to the I repla Macia Aubre1 Shanei Nydeg, The releasE of the Currie Studen

