I t_ .,•- ~- l ~ ,., )' 1 l 1 :> ) ) f l l ~ 1 1 r > r l I Vol. lOB, No. 9 .Youllfktl tit Union College 1877 .·, Provost Huntley -- Schenectady, fiew Yo,rk Thursday, Jan. 11, 1979 c: \''\ \\' \' a. Housing Update by DOUG ROSENFELD The article \Housing: An Inside Viewpoint,'' which ap- peal1ed in the Concordiensis issue of Nov. 9, attempted to focus the attention of the campus community on the problem of donnitory deterioration. insofar as its intent was to solicit ad~ ministrative action, it may be hailed as a limited success. \amount of work studnts did was phenomenal.\ Performed under the supervision and coordinating efforts of Wood and the Main- tenance Department, represented by Howard Billings, the work cost between $5000 and $6000. Wood reports that of this amount, the· materials cost is a part of the maintenance budget, whereas the personnel cost is being paid with those funds released by the Provost. Search Candidates Studied During the fall term recess, the interior cosmetic nededs of several down-camp11s dor- mitories were addressed. The patching and painting of corridor, entryway, and lounge walls proceeded throughout the Fox, DavidSon, and South College dorms. In North College, the entryway was painte«J and in Richmond work was done in the entryway and in several lounges.,- The fact that funding for a project as vital as dormitory upkeep necessarily occurred on suchan ad hoc basis is cause for concern. Dean Kellett and Wood appear to be aware of the PQtential seriousness of the situation. But what is being done to alleviate it? by JIM DAVIS . Provost C. William Huntley yeSterday presented a list ()f another six candidates the Presidential Search Committee has approved to the C__ollege's Board of Trustees at their mid,., winter meeting in· New York City. This brings to 11 the number of candidates the search committee has sent to the Presidentiai Search Com .. rnittee, composed of trustees, for consideration. · So far, 1 tlie · selection ctJm• mittee has interviewed three candidates and has scheduled·a fourth for the end of this month. These applicants were selectetl from a pool of some 170 in- dividuals screened by the on- campus -search corrunittee. _ The committee, which in- cludes faculty members, ad- ministrators, students and trustees, sent the first five names to tbe selection group before the fall term recess. It met for the first time this term on Jan. 3. At this time, it ap-- proved an additional s~ names. \The next step is the campus interview,\ Provost Huntley said. Applicants found most qualified by the search . com· mittee will visit the Union campus. The provost noted that these visits will probably .last two days and will take place \not bef()re late January or early February.\ · He said, \Details of each visit .. will be widEllY posted before each actually takes place. Visits Will include an open meeting with the faculty, at ·which anyone can-address questions.'' After the visits, the search committee will contact certain key individuals who have met' with the ccmdidates on campus to get their l)pinion on the ac- ceptability of each. \Our reports will then go - back to the selection com· mittee, which wiU make the final decision,\ Provost Hun- tley said. As for judging each ap- plicant 's merits, he added that ''every person obviously has a slightly different set of values and perceptions.\ However, in considering the candidates, the search committee looked for aspirants who demonstrated \administrative competence,\ \scholarly competence'' and \success and experience in flUld raising and public relations.\ Selecting a full-time College president is a \blg operatiQn,\ ~ccording to Provost . Huntley. ''It's' relentless-both for the candidate and the_ campus. · ''the seatch ecmunittee ha~ screened some very . strong candidates, and there is reason to be optimistic that we will eml the search with a top-flight person.\ However, there is no guarantee that an acceptable candidate will be found. \If we don't ring. the bell the first tline,\ Provost Huntley said, \the whole search process will have to start again.\ According to Dean of Students Robert H. Kellett, the Con- cordiensis article urging donn reparations came \at a time we were planning to do it.\ Money had been released from excess personnel budget funds by the provost. for use in the repairs. Wben the Housing Committee C()mpiled and submitted their dorwitory priority list, the project, limited in fund$ and therefore in scope;·wiis allowed to m\Dve ahead. ·· · · As pari of an effort by Maintenance Director Richard J. Mills to employ students in maintenance operations wherever practicable, ap- . proximately 25 students were hired to work on the pa.iJ\ting. In view of the facts tha .. the students were not professional painters and the crew size lessened as many of them lost interest, Director of Housing Day-e Wood feels that the According to Dean Kellett, the old budget of $50,000 per annum in donnitory equipment replacement funds is to be supplemented in the new budget with an additional $50,000. As part .of the new fiscal budget,. this allotment of funds for use as what he refers to as \catch· up\ purposes has been ap- proved by the Planning and Priorities Committee. The responSibility for instituting the new budget now relies upon the vote of the Board of Trustees at their Ap~ rneeting .. New Requirement Proposed Yet even if the additional $50,000 is secured for dormitory maintenance purposes, Dean Kellett claims that the necessary \catch-up\ work to be done in the replacement of stolen and worn-out dorm equipment will claim most, if not all, of these additional funds in the first year. That again leaves little or no source of funding for further much· needed dorm rejuvenation and continued upkeep, at least for the year to come. And unless dorms and their furnishings are .abused less in the future, tbisdrain away from improvement for purposes of reparations will ·contlnue. Indeed the use of the additional funds may become of mere . academic importance as the If the All-College Senate - approves, engineering students beginning with the Class of 1983 could be required to ta~e up to 38 courses to earn a degree. But no more than two-thirds of them could be in their major field. Thjs proposal was approved by the Educational Policy Committee (E.P.C.) at its ])ec. 1 meeting. However, it is not on the senate's agenda for discussion for its Tuesday meeting but will probably be considered at the next senate meeting, at the end of this month. The E.P.C. proposal calls for allowing the College's three engineering departments (civil, electrical and mechanical) J() require up to 38 courses for gradu~tion. Presently, aU College students are required to have 35 course credits to qualify for a degree. The E.P.G. proposal als() Provides that if extra ceurse credits· are to be required for engineering degrees, no student be required to carry an overload of more than one-half course in any given term and that tuition be charged for all courses. ''Engineering students used to be reqUired to take additional courses up until about 20 years ago/' E.P . .C. chairman Anton Warde said. \And this is still the policy in many colleges similar to Union.\ Although the engineering departmeflts would be allowed to require up to 38 courses for graduation if the senate passes the enabling legislation, Edward J. Craig, chairman of the. engineer-ing department said it's unlikely that incoming engineering students would be requited to take that many courses. \More pMbably, we'd require engineering students to take 37 courses,\ he said, adding that any additional requirements would not apply to students already enrolled here. AnotherE.P.C. proposal calls for ''aU departments to limit the area of concentration for their majors to no more than two- thirds of the total course work for thedegree.'' All students would be advised to take at least one-third of their course work in fields not directly related to their major. \This is to make sure that all students are able to take courses in all areas of study.\ according tD Prof. Warde. \That's the intent of the kiad of liberal arts education Union offers.'' He noted that while engineering students are presently only required to take 23 courses to qualify for a degree, ''they are often advised to take cognates in other departments related to engineering so that they're really taking as many as 28 engineering courses.\ \This leave.s only eight courses of study in other fields,'; he said. \Our proposal wiU ensure that students are advised to t~ke a broader range of courses.\ To \put some bite in this regulation,\ in Prof. Warde's words, members of the Dean of Faculty's office would take a sampling of transcripts from students in all departments to make sure that the policy is being followed. . \Any consistent patterns counter _to the intent of curricUlar policy would he brought to the attention of E.P.C.,\ according to the proposal. For departments in which 36 course credits are required. for graduation, this would mean that no more than 24 courses could be in that field..,_ \Most. departments only reqllite· 12 or so courses for graduation/' Prof. Warde said. \So this regulation would have the most effect on the engineering departments.\ If 37 ,courses were to be required for an engineering degree beginning with the Class of 1983, then no more than 24 two third courses could be in the engineering or cognate fields if the E .P .C. proposal is approved by the senate.· But Prof. Warde said that \our purpose isn't to split Continued on page 3 trustees, in frustration, dry them up altogether. Dave Wood is quick to emphasize this point, as he warns, \the trustees have gotten word to me that if newly painted dorms are made to look bad, funds for refilrbishrnent will dry up.'' l>rof. Watde

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, January 11, .1979 Career Priority In recent years, the conditions inherent in the job market have ·made the .average. college senior's search for employment a frustrating, difficult, and often unrewarding task. Most college seniors, unless planning to enter preprofessional or graduate school, rely heavily upon the services provided by campus placement offices.. Union College, with its disciplines in both the liberal · arts and engineering, is required to play a .more diversified role 1n regard to placing graduates in tbe job market. Though the College has in: the past been successful in placing its engineering graduates, this mccess has not carried over to its liberal arts graduates. It is true that close to forty-percent of Union graduates g.o directly on to law, m.edical, or ~raduate school. However, in light of recent trends ·Vhich indicate that an increasing number of graduates defer c.ontinued education ·in favor of at least two years of temporary employment, we believe that the College can no longer neglect .its duty to supply its liberal arts .graduates with more than a diploma. The problems within the Office for Placement and Career Resources stem from a combination of inad.equate funding, limited employment Qp- portunities for liberal arts majors, and Union College's reputation ~ ... s an engineering and professional school. Excluding funds allocated for salaries, the P.C.R. ls required to provide adequate services with $4500,, of which all but $1500 was exhausted by late November of last year. The proposed budget calls for an increase in $3500, an amount which undoubtedly will help but is far from what is truly needed to make any dramatic im- provements. The College also suffers from its engineering reputation, which prevents many companies from recruiting Union's Liberal Arts graduates. As a preprofessioonal school, many faculty are reluctant to support an expanded program, even though statistics ·show that .stud-ents who continue their education immediately after graduation tend not to do as well as students who defer their education. We be1ieve that the~ College should actively seek an effective employment counseling program. we see it only in the best interests of the College to attempt to place their graduates in potentially successful position, not only because such a commitment would strengthen the. Union Alumni.. but also because· em- ployment can Offer students temporarily de:fering their education an invaluable learning experience. The trend toward accepting real world experience as a valuable educational experience has already reached the graduate school level (both the Harvard and Stamford Business Schools prefer a candidate who has deferred continued education in favor of temporary employment.) It is time the u_n- dergraduate level also legitimize the act of deferring contiliued education. The budget which the P.C.R. is forced to operate must be expanded to permit the initiation of .sum- mer, and part-time intem~hips for interested students·, to. expand what can only be considered a highly inadequate library of corporate materials, and to permit what we we consider a highly competent staff to begin an unrestricted campaign to attract corporation and Alumni .support to our Campus. Union produces a highly qualified liberal arts student. It is time both the College and the outside business community find it out. C!!onrnr Editors~ in-Chief Associate Editor News Editors Feature Editors Layout Editors Arts Editor Sports Editors Photo Editors Subscription.Editors Finelines Calendar David Rubin, David Schmertz Matt Nagorsky Jim Davis, Doug Rosenfeld Donna Creeley; Sue Barnhart Terri Moran, AlissaSchagrin Stev,e, Monosson Marty Dolan, Tom Buiocchi Cary Feuerml:lil, Pat Wright Ken Marks, IJnda Owen JanDeDeka Melissa Cragin Staff Cindy Aranow, Mindy Broser, Debbe.Demrell, Sue Marr, Pam Ryan, and Sara Simmons Photo Staff Dwight Pakan CONCORDmNSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union CDlle~e, _Carnegie .Han, Scbenectat:ly, New York 12308; Pubbcatlons Off1ce; Susquehanna Publications tnc., 142 Main Street,. Oneonta, New York 13820 (607-432-6737). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Third Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, $10 a year, delivered anywhere in the Unite.d States. . t} B . A d p· Its :n .. : · . Jeces. by STEVE RICIIARDS The Presid~.ntial Search Conunittee has completed the initial screening of the ap- plicant pool and has passed along several· names· to the selection committee composed of trustees. The first candidate sho.u1d visit · the campus sometime in February, at the earliest. Students will have an opportunity to meet each of the candidates who visit Union. Dean. Kellett and Housing Director Dave Wood organized a student paint crew which painted dormitories over ·Christmas recess. The students were phenomenal; they p~inted Davidson, Fo'l:, South, and parts of Richmond and North. AH of this cost the College . about $5,000. I comm~nd both of these administrators .... it was an e~­ cellent idea. I hope the College learns a lesson from this, and I would like to see the ad- ministration develop mote projects of this kind. Lastw.eeki watched· four, and at one point five, men from maintenance spend, . a ·Whole .afternoon here in Fox tr.ying to put two fil;e doors bac·k on their hinges. And the next morning · two of thew had to return-to compJete the job, an(.! it took · them the ent·ire morning! l wish I had the time to take pictures of someofthese .guys on the j.ob. I have good reason. to believe; the school is pouring a lot of money ' down the d1.1ain .over there at maintenance. Did you know that Pte>fessors Bush, Klemm, Male, and Schick each gave$1,000to the College's Annual Fund last year? Did you know the top men at East-man-Kodak and Dupont are Union .alumni? The seat·ch committee f()r a Director Qf Admissions is now in the process of determining the finalists for the position. As you may know, Volunteer Day is Jan. 19. A handbo.ok will be distributed then to all those · interested. in participating in some kind of volunteer .prog_ram · in the area. The- Human- Ser- vices Planning Council in Schenectady will .assist Joe Zolner in placing Union students in the~e ~programs~ Lis;! Katz, ~ndrea Fink, .and Joe spent au of last weekend. working on this .progr~ which l feel will add much to. the lives of some of our students. I really admire Andrea 1 .JQe, and .Lisa for their dedication. . Last term I w~s part of a small group which showed 'l?ed Ke~~;nedy, Jr. around Union. He has applied for admission and seems· very interested. Did youknowthat included in the balanced budget \'hieh is .now before the Trustees is an extra $50,000 for repair and improvein.ent ·of our dorms? This is added to the $50.,000 for regular maintenance. R:elle~t and Wood deserve cteditfor this inellease. Could this mean more student work crews? I hope so.· The Governanc~ Drafting Committee's preliminary draft goes tothe printer tllis week and should be circulated on campU/l by the end of the month. · Committees There are now committee spots available on the following committees: Speakers Forum, Film, .;Social, ·Concert, Elec~ tions, Bookstore, Lectures, Concerts & Films, Library, Presidential Advisory Board, Tax~ Athletic, and Security and ad-hoc committees to plan Parents Weekend and to in~ vestigate the viability of an information Center on campus. If you are interested in serving on any of these committees, sign the Ad-Hoc committees list in the Student Activities Office. In addition, please indicate any preference you might have as to which committee you would like to serve on. The dMdline for signing the list f()r this placement session is Thursday, January Ul at 4;30 PM . F I E' 500: prot CoU mar ptoJ dire' xned othe the sect grad Sp Uni< Of£i< Pla< de fit \pr(] stud' emp pote cam1 Bu stud~ facil serv s i d in ad~ Be of th that ':'at On age11 Sen a wintl It~ thep term year. pres~ resid open to be Ho1 of Ro that< is a h of thE perce Jewis dean that t modif c Ify know have1 know can p The D<~lta th·~ Zl t~ken Fiji's play sec uti The get S(J good 1 \W1 the P,: ex pia senior one i . .. F A he

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, January 11, 19\19 Career Priority In recent years, the conditi.ons inherent in the job market have made the average college senior's search for employment a frustrating., difficult, and often unrewarding task. Most colleg.e seniors, unless planning to enter preprofessienal or graduate school, rely hea vlly upon the services provided by campus placement offtces. Union College, with its disciplines in both the liberal arts and engineering, is required to play a more diversified role in regard to placing graduates in the job market. Though t:he College has in the past been successful in placing its engineering graduates, this -3uccess has not carried over to its liberal arts graduates. It is true that close to forty-percent of Union graduates go directly on to law, medical, or ~raduate school. However, in light of recent trends ·vhich indicate that an increasing number of {Jraduates defer continued education in favor of at least two years of temporary employment, we believe tll.at the CoUege can no longer neglect its duty to supply its Uberal arts graduates with more than a diploma. The proble,ms within the Office for Placement and Career Resources stem from a combination of inadequate funding, limited employment op- portunities for liberal arts majors, and Union Colle.ge' s reputation as an engineering and professional school. Excluding funds allocated for salaries, the P.C.R. is required to provide adequate services with $4500, of which all but $1500 was exhausted by late November af last year. The proposed budget calls for an increase in $3500, an amount which undoubtedly will help but is far from what is truly needed to make any dramatic im- provements. The College also suffers from its engineering reputation, which prevents many companies from recruiting Union's Liberal Arts graduates. As a prepmfessioonal school, many faculty are reluctant to support an expanded program, even though statistics show that students who continue their education immediately after graduation tend not to do as well as students who defer their education. We be1ieve that the College should actively seek an effective employment counseling program. We see it only in the best interests of the College to attempt to place their graduates in potentially successful position, not only because such a commitment would strengthen the Union Alumni, but also because em· ployment can offer students temporarily defering their education an invaluable learning experience. The trend toward accepting real world experience as a valuable educational experience has already reached the graduate school level (both the Harvard and Stamford Business Schools prefer a candidate who has deferred continued education in favor of temporary employment.) It is time the un· dergraduate level also legitimize the act of deferring continued educati()n. The budget which the P.C.R. is forced to operate must be expanded to permit the initiation of sum· mer, and part-time internships for interested students, tQ expand what can only be considered a highly inadequate library of corporate materials, and to permit what we we consider a highly competent staff to begin an unrestricted campaign to attract corporation and Alumni support to our Campus. Union produces a highly qualified liberal arts student. It is time both the College and the outside business community find it out. C!Inttrnr Editors•in·Chief Associate Editor News Editors Feature Editors Layout Editors Arts Editor Sports Editors Photo Editors Subscription Editors Finelines Calendar ~I)U> , ... ~Icf·~ ..:$y-o;-,~ 17 i ~!!: 95 hirttsis Q ·~--.~ r ..... Q ., .. ,:;;.c_ij ~+~k~3 David Rubin, David Schmertz Matt Nagorsky Jim Davis, Doug Rosenfeld Donna Creeley, Sue Barnhart Terri Moran, Alissa Schagrin Steve Monosson Marty Dolan, Tom Buiocchi Cary Feuerman. Pat Wright Ken Marks, Linda Owen JanDeDeka Melissa Cragin Staff Cindy Aranow, Mindy Broser, Deb be Demren, Sue Marr, Pam Ryan, and Sara Simmons Photo Staff Dwight Pakan CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publications Inc., 142 Main Street, Oneonta, New York 13820 (607-432-6737), Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Third Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, $10 a year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Bits And Pieces by STEVE RICHARDS The Presidential Search Committee has completed the initial screening of the ap- plicant pool and has passed along several names to the selection committee composed of trustees. Tae first candidate should visit ·the campus sometime in ,February, at the earliest. Students will have an opportunity to meet each of the candidates who visit Union. Dean Kellett and Housing Dkector Dave Wood organized a student paint crew which painted dormitories over Christmas recess. The students were phenomenaL; they painted Davidson, Fox, South, and parts of Richmond and North. All of this cost the College about $5,000. I conunend both of these administrators-it was an ex- cellent idea. I hope the College learns a lesson from this, and I would like to see the ad- ministration develop more projects of this kind. Last week I watched four, and Cohoes at one point five, men from maintenance spend a whole afternoon here in Fox trying to put two fire doors back on their hinges. And the next morning · two of them had to retur».- to complete the job, and it took them the entire morning! I wish I had the time to take pictures of some nf these guys on the job. I have good reason to believe the schoal is pouring a lot of money down the drain over there at maintenance. Did you know that Professors B1:1sh, Klemm, Male, and Schick each gave $1,000 .t6 the College's Annual Fund last year? Did you know the top men at EastMman-Kodak a:nd Dupont are Union alumni? The search committee for a Director of Admissions is now in the process of determining the finalists for the position. As you may know, Volunteer Day is Jan. 19. A handbook will be distributed then to all those interested in participating in some kind bf volunteer program in the area. The Human Ser- .:. ' De~r ·· ... Edi.to¥s ··•·•··· ttntl Delahunt:· vices Planning Council in Schenectady will assist Joe Zolner in placing Union students in these .programs. Lisa Katz, Andrea Fink, and .Joe spent all of last weekend working en this program which I feel will add much to the liv.es of some of our students. I really admire Andrea, .Joe, and Lisa for their dedication. Last term I w.as part of a small group which showed Ted Kennedy, Jr. around Union. He has applied for admission and seems very interested. Did you know that included in the balanced budget which is now before the Trustees is an extra $50,000 for repair and improvement of om dorms? This is added to the $50,000 for regular maintenance. Itellett and Wood deserve credit for this increase. Couldthis mean more student work crews? I hope so. The Governance Drafting Committee's preliminary draft goes to the printer this week and should be circulated on campus by the end of the month. Assistant Pl\tJfes<Sov M~chanical E!ngineering Committees There are now committee spots available on the following committees: Speakers Formn, Film, Social, Concert, Elec- tions, Bookstore, Lectures, Concerts & Films, Library, Presidential Advisory Board, Tax, Athletic, and Security and ad-hoc committees to plan Parents Weekend and to in- vestigate the viability of an Information Center on campus. If you are interested in serving on any of these committees, sign the Ad-Hoc committees list in the Student Activities Office. In addition, please indicate any preference you might have as to which committee you would like to serve on. The deadline for signing the list for this placement session is Thursday, January HJ at 4:30 PM. c: Ill I ... p II Ev< 500 s1 protE Colle: mad prox: direc medi< other the secUJ gradt Spe Unio1 OfficE Plac• defin• ''pro\ stude em pi pote11 camp But stude1 facilit servi side ina de< Bet I of the that r \at 1 c Onl: agen< Sen at' winte1 It c, thepr term year. prese reside open: to beg How of Ro~ that d is a hi of the percer Jewist dean c that U modifi c If yc know haves, know can pt The DE~lta , the za taken 1 Fiji's I play I secuth The~ get sm good ti \We' the A:r explai senior: one t ~ ~ I Fi AI ho

in lly a a. nd in is an nd u~ g r 5 ,. CONCORDIEN'SIS, .~anuary 11, 19\19 • Page 3 Placement 'Inadequate' Every- June, approximately 500 students ate cast out of the prote<:ltive. womb of Union College and into the hostile job market. Though many, ap• proximately 40 percent, go directly on to att~nd either law, .mediCal or graduate school, 300 other students are faced with the Immediate necessity of securing employment upon graduation. ·Specifically for this purpose, Union College . created the Off.ice of Career Counsdmg and . , Plac.ement. As originally defined,. its purpose was to · \provide a helping hand to all students in their effort to seek ·· employment'' and attract potential employers to the campus.\ . But, i'!Ccording to many students p~esently using the facility to obtain a job, the . services provided are con- sidered ''miser a b 1 y inadequate,\ · Jnadequate.'' Howeve.r, ac- cording to Ms. Goodman, ef~ forts are being made to update and supplement present office services and resources. ''Our primary concern,;, said Ms. Goodman, \is in attracting · ~ \ students as soan as .p· ossible. It ,.. .., is esential (or freshman and 0 • ,.,:. sophomores to be exposed to ~ and consider possible career . alternatives as soon as they enter school, Too often,\ said Ms. Goodman, ''seniors don't even know where the Placement Office is.\ Accor- ding to her, companies are looking for the more diversified student, ''someone who has a wide background.\ It is im- portant for students to find this outso they can plan ahead.\ Yungwha.t Min-=-dlrec.tor of Many students, I:rowever, cite as til~ problem the office's tack ·Of materials available on potential employ~rs, especially in fields relev_ant to social science majors.\ the pi'oblem,. said Ms. Good~ man, also stems from prior emphasis upon recruiting engineers, although, she said \more and more companies relating to sodal science professions' are beginning to recruit on campus.\ Ac<;ording to. Ms. Goodman, most companies consider Union to be an engineering school and as a result, companies not looking for engineers do hot .provide the College with .. career counseling, Betty Goodman-director of placement. materials oN other employment techniques. The seminars and (Jpportunities. \We have written workshops, according to Ms. to many of these companies and Goodman, have been '·very we've gotten a good response,\ successful so far.\ she said. They teach students seeking Ms. Goodman, seeing the office's role as an \on-campus employment agency;\ is ac- tively promoting a series of new career workshops, seminars and panel discussions directed toward improving student exposure-to career alternatives and employment application - employment the most effective techniques for job hunting and interview preparation. The panel discussions will consist of alwnni employed in fields such as advertising, public relations, news and media, and retail management and will provide students with information in these areas. Betty Goodman, the Director ef the Placement Office agrees that many of the services are, ''at the present time, qUite Ms. Goodman cited in- sufficient funds to adequately improve the resource library. In addition to lack of funding, Plusses And Minuses Calendar Change Only one item is on the agenda for the All-Cellege Senate's first meeting of the winter tet•m next Tuesday. · · It calls for a modificati6n of the present calendar for the fall term of the 1979-80 academic year. As is indicated in the present academic register, residence halls are scheduled to open and freshman orientation to begin Saturday, Sept. 22. However, the Jewish holiday :of Rosh Hashanah also fails ·on that date this year. \Since this is a high holy day for members of the Jewish faith and 30 to 35 percent of our student body is· Jewish,\ Robert H.. Kellett, dean of students, has proposed that the academic calendar be modified as follows: Saturday, Sept. 15-residence halls open and freshman orientation begins. Monday-Thursday, Sept. 17- 19-fall term registration. Thursday, Sept. 19-classes begin. Friday,, Nov. 30•-regular classes end. Monday, Dec. 3-fall term exams begin. Friday, Dec. 7-exams end. Saturday, Dec. s~residence halls close at noon. Each of the above dates is one week earlier than is indicated in the academic register. All other events in the fall term, as well as for the remainder of the 1979- 80 academic calendar, would remain unchanged. byL YNNE GREENBERG Vacation was going great. That was until the dreaded day when grades arrived. For many upperclassmen the grades seemed very awkward. For the first time in the history of Union College plus and minus grades were given. Students reacted to the new grading system with -mixed feelings. fn general, the fresh- men found the system favorable while the upperclassmen disliked it. Students found many flaws in the new system. Sam Post, a sophomore, feels that, \The system puts more pressure on students during finals week in the sense that it intensifies grade conciousness. '' · Many students complained that the system of academic warning should also be changed. It is now possible for a student to get \C\, <;C\ \C\- and receive academic warning altheugh ail their grades are in the \C'' range. According to Alan Hertzberg, a senior, \The system stmks. Professors are now very reluctant to admit perfection and are more likely to give an ''A-\ than an ''A\.'' Pam Curran, a sophomore. thinks that the new system lowers students' grades. \When applying to graduate schools, · we must compete against students who did not receive plus and minus grades so the system doesn't benefit us after graduation.\ Keith Dean, a freshman, feels that the system is bad because it produces · 'overgrading.\ \There is too much structure in the grading .system so it hurts the student who does poorly on cancer Hoop Benefit Set If you belong to a fraternity, know someone who does, or have seen \Animal House,\ you know that fraternity brothers can pull some wild stunts. 'l'he brothers at Phi Gamma D<!lta are preparing for one of th•e zaniest events that's ever ta:ken place here. This weekend Fiji's brot11ers and pledges will play basketball for 24 con- secutive hours in Alwnni gym. They're not just doing this to get some attention and have a good time, though. \We'll be raismg money for the P,::nerican Cancer Society,\ explained Bill Alb,.recht, a senior Fiji brother who has been on.e o,f · the marathon's organizers. Prior to the contest, the participants are soliciting contributions fr,;om community and collt'!ge residents. \Pledges are made and determined by the nwnber of hours we play,'' Bill said. \If · someone pledges a dime an hour and the marathon go.es the distance .. we'll colle.ct $2.40 for the society.'' Donations can be made prior or during the marathon- by contacting a Fiji brother. . The marathon will begin Friday afternoon at 1:30 in . Alumni Gym. During the following 24 hours, 16 teams, each composed of three brothers and two females from North, Smith, Richm<>nd and _Me Lean dormitorie-s, will shuttle on and off the court for half-hour stints. \We hope spectators will come up to watch part of the ·fuarathon,\ Bill said. Admission is free with a Union LD ... Student support will make the event more enjoyable for us as well as for those who attend. Especially late at night we'll really appreciate it.\ : In addition to playing_ Qiisketball, fraternity members will also be taking care of all the other arrangements dnring the marathon, including Fiji brothers Rick Gagliano (left) and Bill· Albrecht discuss plans. for the fraternity's 24· hoot basketball marathon this weekend with !;!leaner ,B. Kenyon, executive director of the Schenectady County unit of the· American Cancer Society. preparation, clean-up and security. Extensive media coverage is expected for the event. Major local newspapers and television stations have indic~ted they plan to send reporters. And for those persons who want to find out via the radio about how the marathon is progressing, WWWD will be. providing live hourly updates from the game site at Alwnni Gym. Numerous local merchants have agreed to supply food and other such items while the marathon goes on. Among these donors are the local outlets of McDonald's, Dunkin' Donuts and Budweiser. They will be providing . free food for spec- tators and participants. . \The ~arathon is an exciting tdea, said Eleanor B. Kenyon executive director of th~ Schenectady County unit of the American Cancer Society. \lt should be a good fund raiser.\ Bill noted that the event \will improve relations between the college and Schenectady.\ The other fraternity .brothers at·e also looking forward to the contest. \I'm going to score more points than you can count,\ declared Mike ''Disco'' Joyce, who is also known for his tough rebounding strength that has earned him the title of \Chairman of the Boards.\ And when the chairman, or any of the other participants, score, they'll also be doing it for the American Cancer Society. one exam.'' Professors have the choice of whether they want to use the pluses and mmuses. Jackie Mazza, a senior, feels that \allowing some professors to comply and not others makes the system proposterous.\ A transfer student found the gradffig system very favorable . in comparison to her old schOol. According to Nellie Van- - derWorden, \My old school didn't use pluses and minuses. r feel that this is much more accurate.\ Many other students also liked the .system because of its accuracy. Two freshman, .. Fran ·Davis and Paul Nickelsberg, suggested that the school use only plus grades and straight letter grades. They felt this wou;ld measure students' grades more accurately without hurting them. Rumor had it that an ex- traordinary nwnber of fresh- man had received academic warning under the new system. According the Mr. Calvin Sch- midt; Registrar, 87 freshman received warning. This is up from 58 last year. Mr. Schmidt says, he \does not know if this is due to the plus and minus grades.'' There were those students . who were not affected by the new plus and minus grades. As one. anonymous pre-med said, \I got my 4.0 so who cares!\ Engineering ... Continued from page 1 hairs.\ Although he admitted that requiring 25 engineering courses for graduation woUld be \sort of a violation;!' he added that this number of courses \would be less than the 27 or 28 that engineering students now often take in engineering.\ In a related action, the E.P.C. proposed that the engineering departments be permitted to substitued three half-unit courses-ES 02, 03 and 04-for two courses that are now of- fered, ES 14, \Introduction to Computer Programming,\ and ES 16, \Engineering Graphics and Computers.'' \This substitution would allow engineering students to 'fine-tune' their study,\ Prof. Warde said. \They would take two of the three courses tnat are most useful in their field of stu(:ly.\ · If this proposal is approved, it also would take effect beginning no earlier than with next year's incoming class, according to Prof. Warde. In addition; both ES 14 and 16 would no longer be offered.

in on ml ch a ed in is s? re e ' r s ' c:: \' I .. t ~ CONCORD lEN SIS, .J.anuary 11, 1919 Placement 'Inadequate' inadequate.\ However, ac- cording to Ms. Goodman, ef- forts arc being made to update and supptement present office serviees and resources. ''011.r primary concern,\ said Ms. Goodman, \is in attracting · cf students as soon as possible. It >- .0 0 0 if • Page 3 Every June, approximately 500 students are cast out of the protective womb of Union College and into the hostile job market. Though many, ap- proximately 40 percent, go directly on to attend either law, medical or graduate school, 300 other students are faced with the immediate necessity of securing employment upon graduation. Specifically for this purpose, Union College created the Office of Career Counseling and Placement. As originally defined, its purpose was to ''provide a helping hand to all students in their effort to seek employment\ and attract potential employers to the campus.'' is esenHal for freshman and so{Jhomores to be expased to and consider possible career alternatives as soon as they enter school. Too often,\ ~aid Yungwhat Mi1:1-director of career counseling., Be.tty Goodman-director of placement. But, according to many students presently using the facility to obtain a job, the services provided are con- sidered \miserably inadequate.'' Betty Goodman, the Director of the Placement Office agrees that many of the services are, \at the .present time, quite Ms. Goodman, \seniors don't even know where the Placement Office is.\ Accer- ding to her, companies are looking for the more diversified student, \someone who has a wide background.\ It is im- portant for students to find this out so they can plan ahead.\ Many students, however, cite as the problem the office's lack of materials available an potential employers, especially in fields relevant to social science ma.iors.\ Ms. Goodman cited in- sufficient funds to adequately improve the resource library. In addition to lack of funding, Calendar ChangC Only one item is on the agenda for the All-College Senate's first meeting of the winter term next Tuesday .. It calls for a modification of the present calendar for the fall term of the 1979..SO academic year. As is indicated in the present academic register, residence halls are scheduled to open and freshman orientation to begin Saturday, Sept. 22. However, the Jewish holiday of Rosh Hashanah also falls on that date this year. \Since this is a high holy day for members of the Jewish faith and 30 to 35 percent of our student body is' Jewish,\ Robert H. Kellett, dean of students, has proposed that the academic calendar be modified as follows: Saturday, Sept. 15-residence halls open and freshman orientation begins. Monday-Thursday, Sept. 17- 19-fall term registration. Thursday, Sept. 19-classes begin. Friday,, Nov. 30--regular classes end. Monday, Dec. 3-fall term exams begin. Friday, Dec. 7-exams end. Saturday, Dec. 8-residence halls close at noon. Each of the above dates is one week earlier than is indicated in the academic register. All other events in the fall term, as well as for the remainder of the 1979- 80 academic calendar, would remain unchanged. the problem, said Ms. Good- man, also stems from prior emphasis upon recruiting engineers, although, she said \more and more companies relating to social science professions· are beginning to recruit on campus.\ According to. Ms. Goodman, most companies consider Union to be an engineering school and as a result, companies not looking for engineers do hot provide the College with materials on other employment rJpportunities. \We have written to many of these companies and we've gotten a good response,\ she said. Ms. Goodman, seeing the office's role as an \on-campus employment agency,\ is ac- tively promoting a series of new career workshops, seminars and panel discussions directed toward improving student exposure to career alternatives and employment application techniques. The seminars and workshops, according to Ms. Goodman, have been '·very successful so far.'' They teach students seeking employment the most effective techniques for job hunting and interview preparation. The panel discussions will consist of almnni employed in fields such as advertising, public relations, news and media, and retail management and will provide students with information in these areas. Plusses And Minuses by LYNNE GREENBERG Vacation was going great. That was until the dreaded day when grades arrived. For man-y upperclassmen the grades seemed very awkward. For the first time in the history of Union College plus and minus grades were given. Students reacted to the new gradin~ system with mixed feelings. In general, the fresh- men found the system favorable while the upperclassmen disliked it. Students found many flaws in the new system. Sam Post, a sophomore, feels that, \The system puts more pressure on students during finals week in the sense that it intensifies grade conciousness.\ Many students complained that the system of academic warning should also be changed. It is now possible for a student to get \C\, ··c\ \C\- and receive academic warning although all their grades are in the \C\ range. According to Alan Hertzberg, a senior, \The system stinks. Professors are now very reluctant to admit perfection and are more likely to give an ··A-\ than an \'A\.\ Pam Curran, a sophomore, thinks that the new system lowers students' grades. \When applying to graduate schools, we must compete against students who did not receive plus and minus grades so the system doesn't benefit us after graduation.\ Keith Dean, a freshman, feels that the system is bad because it produces ··overgrading.\ \There is too much structure in the grading system so it hurts the student who does poorly on one exam.\ Professors have the choice of whether they want to use the pluses and minul)es. Jackie Mazza, a senior, feels that \a.llowing some professors to comply and not others makes the system proposterous.\ A transfer student found the grading system very favorable in comparison to her old school. According to Nellie Van- derWorden, \My old school didn't use pluses and minuses. I feel that this is much more accurate.\ Many other students also liked the system because of its accuracy. Two freshman, Fran Davis and Paul Nickelsberg, suggested that the school use only plus grades and straight letter grades. They felt this would measure students' grades more accurately without hurting them. Cancer Hoop Benefit Set Rumor had it that an ex- traordinary number of fresh- man had received academic warning under the new system. According the Mr. Calvin Sch- midt, Registrar, 87 freshman received warning. This is up from 58 last year. Mr. Schmidt says, he \does not know if this is due to the plus and minus grades.\ If you belong to a fraternity, know someone who does, or have seen \Animal House,\ you know that fraternity brothers can pull some wild sttmts. The brothers at Phi Gamma DE~lta are preparing for one of th·~ zaniest events that's ever taken place here. This weekend Fiji's brothers and pledges will play basketball for 24 con- secutive hours in Alumni gym. They're not just doing this to get some attention and have a good time, though. \We'll be raising money for the A:nerican Cancer Society,\ explained BHI Alb)'echt, a senior Fiji brother who has been one of the marathon's organizers. Prior to the contest, the participants are soliciting contributions f~om commllllity and college residents. ''Pledges are made and determined by the number of hours we play,\ Bill said. \If someorre pledges a dime an hour and the marathon goes the distance, we'll collect $2.40 for the society.\ Donations can be made prior or during the marathon by contacting a Fiji brother. The mar-athon will begin Friday afternoon at 1:30 in Alumni Gym. During the following 24 hours, 16 teams, each composed of three brothers and two females from North, Smith, Richmond and McLean dormitories, will shuttle on and off the court for half-hour stints. \We hope spectators will come up to watch part of the marathon,\ Bill said. Admission is free with a Union I. D. \Student support will make the event more enjoyable for us as well as for those who attend. Especially late at night we'll really appreciate it.\ · In addition to playing basket ball, fraternity members will also be taking care of all the other arrangements during the marathon, including preparation, clean-up and security. Extensive media coverage is expected for the event. Major local newspapers and television stations have indicated thev plan to send reporters. And for those persons who want to find out via the radio about how the marathon is progressing, WWWD will be providing live hourly updates from the game site at Alumni Gym. Numerous local merchants have agreed to supply food and other such items while the marathon goes on. Among these donors are the local outlets of McDonald's, Dunkin' Donuts and Budweiser. They will be providing free food for spec- tators and participants. \The marathon is an exciting idea,\ ~aid Eleanor B. Kenyon, executive director of the Schenectady County unit of the American Cancer Society. \It should be a good fund raiser.\ Bill noted that the event ''will improve relations between the college and Schenectady.\ The other fraternity brothers are also looking forward to the contest. There were those students who were not affected by the new plus and minus grades. As one anonymous pre.med said, \I got ray 4.0 so who cares!\ Engineering ... Continued from page 1 hairs.\ Although he admitted that requiring 25 engineering courses for graduation would bt \sort of a violation,'' he added that this number of courses \would be less than the 27 or 28 that engineering students now often take in engineering.\ In a related action, the E.P.C. proposed that the engineering departments be permitted to substitued three half-unit courses-ES 02, 03 and 04-for two courses that are now of- fered, ES 14, \Introduction to Computer Programming,\ and ES 16, \Engineering Graphics and Computers.'· ''This substitution would allow engineering students to 'fine-tune' their study,\ Prof. Warde said. \They would take two of the three courses that are most useful in their field of study.\ ~ \I'm going to score more points than you can . count,\ declared Mike \Disco\ Joyce, who is also known for his tough rebounding strength that has earned him the title of \Chairman of the Boards.\ If this proposal is approved, it also would take effect beginning no earlier than with next year's incoming class, according to Prof. Warde. In addition, both ES 14 and 16 would no longer be offered. i Fiji brothers Rick Gagliano (left) and Bill Albrecht discuss plans for the fraterni.ty's 24· hour basketball marathon this weekend with Eleanor .B. Kenyon, executive director of the Schenectady County unit of the American Cancer Society. And when the chairman, or any of the other participants, score, they'll also be doing it for the American Cancer Society.

Page 4 CONCORDIE,NSlS, January1,1, 1979 The Clash by STEVE MONUSSON Jamaica where they were inhospitably received in their attempts there to cross racial barriers. The irony is that their European home to which they retur:r.J. is anything but safe, as evidenced in \English CiviL War\. Built arotmd the tune of \When Johnny Comes Mar- ching Home\ the Clashmen tum a hallowed Ar.nerican war song into one of their owr.1 - only in this instance the war has only just begun. The conflict is dealt with on a personal level in _ ''Tommy Gun\ a straight ahead rocker where the' in- dividual is cautioned that total sacrifice is necessary for a better world: ''You'll be dead, but the war is won.\. ulture At its inception, rock and roll <\·as a rebellion of sorts, and the new album by The Clash, Give 'Em Enough Rope, is a illagnificent record created in '·hat tradition. This record will ,dso probab_ly go unnoticed by the general populus; its ideas .,re too hard edged, its tempo is too intense, and its lyrics are not easily discernible. In order to fully appreciate Rope, the listener must be prepared to sit down and give the album several serious listenings before he m· she can appreciate its wondrous intricacies and superb, unbridled rocking style. The Clash are the last great British punk band, embodying a philosophy of revolution, distrust, and pervasive pessism. There are no glossy illusions to be found on this record. unlike the great body of rock and roll being produced today. The world is not a pretty place, and to exist ilfit one must be prepared for a struggle. The Clash struggle with and through rock music, and on all counts they are victorious. 11he remainder of the album deals with various aspects of the hwnan struggle. \Judy's Been Working For The Drug Squad\ with its honky tonk ptano arrangement and overall whimsicality' is a step back from the fierceness ortne great majority of Rope. Here, the authorities find that they can't bust the rebels for plain speaking out, so they plant drugs on them and get them for possession. The idea, as presented here, is Iudicro,us. In the offbeat and very stirring, \Drug Stabbing Time\ the idea is taken much more seriously as it becomes a symbol for authoritative suppression techniques i-n general. Joe Strt~mmer' s gr,isily evocative The Clash: Nicky Headon, Mich Jones, Paul Simenon and Joe Strummer. Side one of the ·disc bursts open with \Safe European Home\ a close to perfect rock and roll song. Its solid structure in no way limits the power and intensity of that which is The Clash.. It details Joe Strum- mer's and Mick Jones' (the band's frontmen) trip to vocals drive home the urgency of the thought, as they ,do· throughout the record. A passionately beautiful moment on the album is \.Stay Free\ which traces the yeuth of lead vocalist Mick Jones and a not so fortunate companion. Jones sings in a lUcid, direct . style; and is a Welcome break from Strummer's strident at- tack. He acknowledges that he has risen above the heap and he prays for his companion to stay free of legal pratfalls and at- tacks on his right to be. It is -a.. compassionate, well meant admonition. It points out the Clash's love and-trust for basic human nature, and its com- paratively polarized attitude toward those who would at- tempt to violate the basic rights. The final note rests on Whether or not the .punk ethic can continue to sill'vive. Their buildup in the British press is examined in \Cheapskates\, where th~-band refuses to fall into the superstardom role and is faulted for doing so: \With cheapskates · Anything'H do - With cheapskates - What're we supposed to do?\. In \'f:hat's No Way To Spend Your Youth'', the (cour+esf of Trouser Press) band is-projects its consumption by big business and an in· sensitive world. StU!, The Clash continue to write and perform as if they were playing for a select London audience, the people who gave them their initial support. They are a people's band, and wm remain thaf way until they are either consumed or are. accepted by the world at la~geontheirtermsONLY. The only thing that can be done. now '(s to keep up the fight,- make super rock. and roll, and hope for a better future for all. · Co.ffeehouse Alternative Tired of the same- old weeke11d nights of walking to the 'Skellar, then to the PuQ, then back through the cold to the 'Skellar . . . Then why not try . a change of pace this Friday night and come to the Union College Coffeehouse? Old Chapel will open its· doors at 8:30p.m. for an evening of good music, fun and friends. Per- forming will be Carolyn Odell, a vibrant young singer - guitarist who play~ a blend of con- temporary and tradition.al music, country, _blues and ragtime. Carolyn Odell: Contempor~ry and traditional music. Ms. Odell also plays her own songs which are gaining her a fast growing reputation as a Dire Straits In Debut by PURE BOB BLAI{Jt Dire Str-aits is a new band from London which ·has Jleeri getting increasingly heavy airplay in tlte 'United States over the past fewmonths. Theil' music is the product of one Mark Knopfler the singer, songwriter and lead guitarist for the band. One of the sur- prising things about the band is that despite what their name and place of origin might imply, there is absolutely nothing punk, or for that matter, anything partictll.arly English about the band. . The sound of Dire Straits is a very sparse one. The music is composed .of a light rhythm section (bass, drums, and rhythm guitar) with the flat, but fully versatile, a<:compUshed and distinctive lead guitar playing of Mark Knopfler giving the band its predominant sound. The music seems to split into twomajor influences, one very southern, and the other a folk· Pock one similar to Dylan or Springsteen. Knopfler's slightly raspy vocals .are fine for complimenting both styles With the oth~r mem.bers of the band_ oc~a:sfonaUY\ addlQg backing. harmonies to smooth out their predo.minantly laid back sound; The songs are not so: much about occurances or stories, but rather about scenes and places. There in the jazzy club of \The Sultans of Swing\ the be~utiful mellow portrait of London's theatre district of ''Wild West End\ Gr the couple about to embark upon romance of \Down to the Water Line''.~\ ' Despite . the spar.se in• strumentatiwr of the band, the- · music PQdtays. thtfScenes ·with -a:gr.eat.dealof.eolor-and:-feeUng. Si:nlply, -titled HDire -Straits'',_ their first album is a fine effort with the songs ·all being · of a generally high qu~lity. Per- sonally r would ·like to see another lead instrument in the band, a· sax.ophone or a keyboard .perhaps, to fill out and fartner color their sound. All in all Dire Straits is a new band with- much potential and I am interested to see how theY . will develop from here. Dutc·h Hollow Pub. Continued from page 5 commented that they are always . open to suggestions concerning improvements or specials at the Pub; Another new undertaking by the Pub this tern~. is its five dinner a week meal plan. The twelve participants now on this plan have the option,of choosing either the dinner offered or ordering up to $3.0() worth of food. With all these attractions it is not surprising that the pub has' been very crowded .since we've returned from vacation. refreshingaiid enthusiastic new t-alent. Her vocals hi:we the clear, soulful quality of Bonnie Raitt, and she . rnasterfully blends her :vocals with fine instrum~ntation, S.he sings anything from \I wish, that I'd been born in Borneo\ to \YQu are my Stmshiri:e\ gospel songs and the J;>allas ·Rag, a swing instrumental. So join us this Friday evening, Jan. 12 at 8:30 p.m. ,jn. the Old Chapel. And remember, just $1. admission entitles you to coffee, donuts, teas, lemonade .and Irish Cof- fee! · While we're ·on the subj.ect - Union:(,::olleg~ Coffe~house, that is - we . need y9ul We. need peop1e to nelp with~~m-y.t}ling and everything • w .. aUets and waitre~se.s, pub-licity, audjtionirtg and.st:!h'edliling; .ete: Wantio help? Leave yaur name. and_ ·phone ..number--with -Mrs. Ma11ra in the Student. Activities Office. 'foday! Waiting on tables not your thing: Would you rathef'be _on stage?· Well, here's your chance. Union. College Cof-. feehouse will be having ·a student coffeehouse for Valentine's Day, and another · one sometime during spring terro. Interested in· performing? We'll be holding auditions Wednesday, Jan. 24 from 7:30 p.m. tint-il when~ver. What do you !lave .to do? Put togeth§!r a fewyJ)ngs (15 minute limit} and sign 'UP for a time Slot on the sheet on the bUlletin board next to Mrs. Marra's desk in. the Student Activities Office. Don't be shy~corrtcHm out andtry! We want to hear vou! . Now don 1 1: forget - Carolyn · O!iell· this F,r~day at 8:30 ~p.m. And, :alSo.: ,watch for the ·.co£- : .feehQuse.schedule for the rest of ·the year. ·vottll see names·· like · Bll:I Stames, J;irn Bigness' and . Tom Winslo;w,..<'Vfho? Come· and ·see for ymll':aelf! · Blue·Gross/ES,P ,.· . ' ' Have yoli ever wanted to break away from the ordinary - to try something different for a ehange.? Are you tired of the typical Union weekend· - working, or just hanging around at the Skellar? If n·ot, then read no furlhe..r; .but if you are, then this weekend you will ha:ve the opportuni-ty to experience something completely different. Saturday night, the Union College S()cial Committee will be presentiflg a imique evening of enteitaimnent ami dance - a Blue Grass Extravaganza. The event will take place in the Nott Memorial, -to add a special atmost>bettic Ravor. There will be daticing to a live blue grass band, and a perforlllance . by that Master of Magic and ESP, Ronny Romm. The band will keep your feet moving all night, and Mr. Romm will keep you dazzled and mystified With his feats. All_ in all, it·is an evening not to be missed by anyone. · Tickets are $1 and wiil be on sale in Carnegie today and tomorrow. Only a limited number can be sold, so get yours soon-. Remember, that's this Saturday, January 13th, at 8 p.m., in the Nott- Memorial. Refreshments Will be served. Come and enjoy a totally dif..; ferent evening. A good time is guaranteed fo~ all. • J ... fl I! 1~ . ()j n: g! tt P' $1 .p ,R . :81 :~ aJ ti .. rr .. J• Sl tJ ,:..........: aJ a1 : w ..-----.· n ir !i I -I st! at ho Br •po E' l fir SP' Stl Ki se1 de tal

SS) Qfi to ay at ke pe a . a s. y ' CONCORDIENSIS, January 11 1 1919 Page 5 .. Around Campus·----- •Amnesty · . There was an enthustastic reception for the Amnesty . International·Support Group last term; and the newly folrned . organization is. growing in · • numbers and strength. The group would like t_o extend · thanks to all those who sup- . · .ported. us this past term. . A .. . special thanks is in_ order for _ : Professors Bruc~ Reynolds and •, Robert Shatlet whose advice ~~ • • and participation is-- greatly - · appreciated. This term's ac- tivities will begin with a .. ·meeting 'on Wednesday, · January 17 at 10:30 p.m. in ·.Strauss Lounge. AU members of . the Union College community are welcome to attend. Many : activities are planned~ for the . weeks ahead, and there are · • many oppertunities for all.those · interested in participating. Hope to see you lhete. H.illel .-Events . .: J.S.O.-Hillel is off to a great ·start this term. On Wed., Jan. 17 . at 7:30 in H.U 019, we will be holding a'\general meeting. · • Bring a friend~ but most im- • portant bring some good ideas. Everyone ts welcome. Eriday, Jan. 19th will be the ·first Friday night dinner - speaker program of the term. Starting at 5:45 in the Kosher Kitchen, we will be holding a service, to be followed by a delicious dinner, and finally, a talk hy Prof. Stanley Isser of the SUNY Albany Judaic Studies Dept. on, \Varieties of Messianism in Early Judaism.'' Professor Isser is one- of the most dynamic spe<:~kers at Albany; come hear him speak Call 6623 or 3774i205 to make a reservation. f$2.00 members, $3.50 non-members) Monday, Jan11ary 29 will be a surprise program for the entire ca·mpus. Look for further surprise details! REMEMBER: COME TO T:HE MEEcTING NEXT WEDNESDAY, THE l7t~ TO FIND OUT MORE AND TO GIVE YOUR iDEAS! SHi\LOM! This year's Parents Weekend will take place from May 4 to 6. . To get things moving, a student committee is now being formed to plan, • organize and . im- plement the weekend's events. H you have ideas or extra energy that needs to be directed . toward some goal,. this is the · committee for you. · · An ad-hoc committee ·list is now available at the Student Activities Office in Carnegie · · HaiL r fyour name i's already on that list, please come in and indicate your interest in this · corr:nro.ittee. Let's show the parents wjlat a · • great place Union is. Even if · you don't have the time for the committee itself, we would love to see you and hear your ideas. The deadline for signing the · ad-hoc committee · list for this committee is Jan. 19. P·ub Plans Union's Dutch Hollow Pub has many new and exciting plans for this term. This winter, along with the usual happy hour and Jack Daniels Night specials, the pub will sponsor regular , weekend en- . tertaihment. So far scheduled · are jaz7: pianist \Fats\ Jef-· ) Our 1J PREPARE FOR: _ 40th:Q 'M£11 · BAT ·lSAT · liMIT v..,.J &RE/· OCAI · liT· SAT Flexible Programs & Hours 'lb·ere IS • differen~e!!! A-lbany Ce-nter ~- ~- -H 163 Delaware Ave. _- .,_. - .. · N. Delmar \\ . ( - . · EOUCA-TIONAL CENTEA phone· 518) 439-8146 TEST PREPA~ATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 Outside N;Y. State Only CALL TOll FREE: 800·223·17.82 Centers in Major US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland ferson and country ro.ck group .. 1 \Blue Grass Band.\ kll per- formances will have HO cover or minimum cha1·ge. Additional surprises which the pub has in store are a Yukon Jack night with ski hats and key chains to be given away, a ten cent beer night, and numerous discos. The , objective behind these 'big plans' was explained by Angelo Mazzone, directer of fo0d services, who stated, ··we want ~tudents t<:> think ofthe pub as a nice and relaxing place. It's certainly one of the most beautiful bUildings in the city and has the eheapest prices as welL The only thing that Sun· day's has that the Pub doesn't is flowers.\ 'Pub v. orkers also Continued t_m page 4 SAN()WICHES TO EAT IN OR TAKE OUT TUES.- SAT. 7 am - 7 pm SUN. - 7 ~m - J pm (Take out ONLY) Ph<me 383·0617 1600 Union Street Schenectady, N.Y . Dutch Hollow Pub •-Steak & Ale-• eat ond drink your heart out every friday and saturday night. - Fre-e pitcher of beer with every dinner Free Delivery ' ' . .... . .~ ~MENU u~~- Cheese \'Pizza l6 11 Cheese Pizza I $2;75_ ' ' $4;00. 12° Deh,1xe -Cambo $4.55 16° OeJuxe Combo $6.40 lT' Works Pi.zza $5.45 16 11 Works ·Pizza $7.60 ·ADDITIONAL ITEMS For 12\ - - 45c For 16\ -- 60c Sausage Pepperoni Han;J Onions Mushrooms Thi-ck Crust Green Peppers Grou:rad Beef -· within our Delivery area ·(30· -minute service) call 382-3838 · -~pen ·da:i:l v _ -4 p~m. .... ,. · ·a.m. Fri. & · Sa,t. 4 p.m • • 2 a.m. .. •

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, January 11, 1979 BUllETIN BOARD Changes and Additions to Recruiting Schedule--January • 1979-April 1979. . ·Brooklyn Union Gas- Recruiting date changed to January 18, 1979. M.E.'s Chern., Math, Physics, Eco. MBA's-for positions in Nuclear Propulsion, Management, Bus. Admin, Aviation, and Civil Engin.eering .-R ecrni ting date--MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1979. Sign~up on WED· NESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1071t. Metropolitan Ins. Co. Any Major interes.ted in Sales R~presentative Management Representative-Any · Major'- Recrulting date ....... THURSDA Y, AP Rli.. 5, 1979. Sign-up FRIDAY, MARCH 9 at 1:30 P.M. U.S. Dept. of Transportation is seeking candidates for their Highway Engineering Training Program-Civil Engineers~. · ·More informatien available in the Placement Office. State Troopers. will be talking with interested students on January 24, 1979 in Carnegie . Hall from 10:00 A.M. to 4:00. Digital Equipment Cor.p. E.E.'·s · for · positions iii · · Engineering and C.S. Majors • for Program Development · Software.-Recruiting dat~ . Positions.-Recmiting date- WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7.,. •· 1979 •. Sigu•up on TUESDAY, JAN·UARY 30, 1979. Goulds Pum.ps will be pretecruiting on THURSDAY, JANUARY 18·, 1979 in the evening. Please cheek with Professor Ullman for more information. They will b'e recruiting on FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 1979, for M.E.'s & C.E.'s. • THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 19'/9. Sign-up on JANUARY 24, 1979 at 10:30 A.M. Digital will ·have an orientation pr~recruitment session on JANUARY 11, 1979 in HALE . HOUSE-LOWER LOUNGE from 3:30 P.M.-5:00 P.M. Interested faculty and students · are invited. Sak's Fifth A venue--Any Major for RETAIL MANAGEMENT ·PROGRAM-- located in New York.~ Recruiting date-THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1979. Sign-up on TUESDAY, JANUARY 30, 1979. NAVAL UNDE-RWATER SYSTEMS-·E.E.'s,. M.E.'s & C.S. Majors-FOR.: research, development, test evaluation, and fleet support in underwater missile systems and com- ponents, underwater sUr• velliance ~ystems, submarien communications systems, navigation and related science Summer Employment Possibilities: Please bring your reslUile·. or pick . up . an IN- TERVIEW RESUME FORM in the Placement Office which should be completed and I.B.M. Corp. has added the following schedules for recruiting: -Recruiting date- . TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1979. Sign-up ou MONDAY, JanlJ,acy 29, 1979 at 1:90 P.M. Rese1;1rch & Development- Kingston, N.Y. C.S. & Math Majors for position in Kingston. & te.chnology .~Recruiting date- THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1979. Sign-up · · returned to Placement a few days before the company recruiting date. We will submit your resume or Interview Resume Form to the recruiter. For more information on the companies in which you. are intereste<;l, please .stop by the office: Data Systems Div .~Fishkill, N.Y. M.E.'s & E.E.'s for design and development C.S. Majors for Programmers. Data Systems Division C.S. .and ·I.E. . Majors- Poughkeepsie, N.Y. I.B.M. Corporate Office- Armonk, N.Y. Check with Placement.-Recruiting Date- . Tuesday, Feb. 2(}. Sign-up 1:30 . P.M. February 2, 1979. ~avy Dept. C.E.'s, E.E.'s & on WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1979. General Dynamics-(Pomona Mi&sile Div.)-E.E.'s and C.S. Majors.-Recuriting . date- MONDAY, MARCH 5, 1979; Sign~up FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1979 at 9:30 A.M. Peace Corp.-Recruiting DATES-MARCH 7 and l\iARCH 8, 1979. Sign-up- WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2&-3:30 P.M. Burroughs Welcome Sales Out there in the Atlantic Ocean on a sunshine beach there's going to be an outbreak of. revelry this vacation break. And after the sun goes down ... well, you know the effect that moonlight has ()n a celebration. We can only hope· it won't be a full moon. 1 Because from Jan. 13 through April 21 we're opening Na~;sau and Paradise Island to a wave of American col- lege students. We have reason to believe that wave may reach tidal proportions. Probably because of the price: $269 including air fare and 7 nights hotel. So ther~ it is, young America. We guarantee you the best of dancing on the beach, water sports and a roaring party. Beyond that, you're invited to improvise. And since your talent for good timing is legendary, we've made prepara- tions for you. We're going to be ready. With open arms. r---------------, I . • 501 Mad1son Avenue I I f1~1\IG ~~~.,j'5~:..~6s10o22 I ~A 1 . tollfree:(800).22~-0694 I INrER COLLEGIATE HOLIDAYS INC. 1· $269 o Jan. 13-Jan. 20 o Ja.n. 20-Jan. 27 o Jan. 27-Feb.3 0 Mar. 3-Mar. 10 o Mar. 10-Mar. 17 $319 ~; Mar. 17-Mar. 24 ·C:: Mar. 24-Mar. 31 C Mar. 31aApr. 7 0 Apr. 1-Apr. 14 o Apr. 14-Apr. 21 o Alright! Sounds goodf I've checked the week I want to party and enclosed my $50 deposit. o Sounds good but l'cl li~e to hear more. Send me your brochure. Name ___ _ Address __ . _____ -----;.-- City -. _____________ State ___ ._Zip __ I Telephone_ __ _ ___ ----~-.--~~-- I I I I I I I I I I I I ~---------------~ NASSAU&PARADISE ISLAND. BAHAMAS COLLEGE WEEK. NORDEN SYSTEMS..,...No- rwalk, Conn. Recruiting Date- Tbllrsday, January 25, 1979;- lnterested in Electrical Engineers-SOPHOMORES AND .TONIORS. KARRISON RADIATOR~ Div. General Motors Corp.- Lockport, New . York, Re€!ruiting Date---Friday, February 2, 1979~ Interested in Me«?banical Engineers alld Computer Science Majors--:- Juniors & Seniors. · PliiLADELPHIA ELECT- RIC CO.--Phila., Pa. Recruiting Date- Thursday, Feb. 8, 1979~ Interested in Electrical and Mechanical Engineers-SENIORS. SPERRY UNIVAC COM- PUTER SYSTEMS---st. Paul, Min11esota--'Recruiting Date- Thursday, February 22, 1979. Interested in COMPUTER SCIENCE MAJORS-JUNI- ORS. EASTMAN KODAK-Roc- hester, N.Y.-Recruiting Date, Monday, February 26, 1979. InteJ:ested in SOPHOMORES AND JUNIORS-ECONOMIC, MA\I'H. AND COMPUTER SCIENCE MAJORS. ROCHESTER PRODUCTS- Roc:hester, N.Y.-Recruiting Date-Monday, Feb. 5, 1979. · SlGN•UPS WILL BE IN TBE PLACEMENT OFFICE ON . JANUARY 12, 1979 at 2:30 P:M. FOR E.E.'s, M.E.'s, arut · LE.'s-FRESHMEN AND , SOPHOMORES ONLY-For Positions in Product, Plant, and Production En·gineering, for TW0~6~week Rotational Assignments. I.B.M. '(Data Systems Div. )- South Road, Box 950, Poughkeepsie, N.Y. · 12601 Please write for applications for summer work-Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors-I.E.'s. C.S., E.E. 's, and Math Majors. NEW ACQUISITIONS:: The Ma1·tindale-Hubbell Law Diredory: A listing of lawyers, · law firms their size and areas of 464 State St. we deliver practice. Directory .of Internships- Work Experience Programs, and on-the job . training op- portunHies and first · sup- plement. l;'rofessional Resume-Job Search Guide by Management Counselors, Inc. Standard & Poor's Register~1978. . MINORITY NEWS: Wise, Historian~ Public ·Public information GE, Zenith Gla'dieux, Director of · Development, Schene<:tady · Museum, and Gail Mangan, . ~ Promotion Manager, Capitol • Newspaper. CoUegiate Woman's Career Magazine offers \Free Career , · Reswne Service\ to women and minerity graduates. Mountbauks is ,now accepting •. written proposals for stud~nt • directed productions · and · :workshop~ in the Directors' Lab . Theater .for this term, Winter . 1979. If you have any.ideas'tbat ; you wi~h to explore in any tlle;:ttrical genre, please mail . your name, phone number and a • written outline to, Moun- tebanks. Box 2530, by Thursday, J•anuary 19, 197'9. Thank you. Minority Graduates for Junior Foreign Service Positio.ns: The Department of State is recognizing minority graduates for jobs in Washington and overseas. Olin Fellowship for Women at Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri.. INTERNSHIPS, FELLO- WSHIPS ANI) SUMMER OPPORTUNITIES: Historic Deerfield Summer Fellowships in Early American History arid the Decorative Arts is offered for the summer of 1979. The deadline for filing applications is February 5, 1979. . The Committee on Public · Policy Studies at the University of · Chicago announces fellowship program. NYPIRG (New York Public Interest'\ Research Group) of- fers a variety of volm1teer · programs and paid op- portunities. ISRAEL PROGRAM CEN- TER+ LONG TERM . PROGRAMS offers op- portunities on study, travel, and work in Israel. NATIONAL WlLDLlFE FEDERATION sponsors intern program in \Conservation Su:rrtmits.'' COLLEGIATE SCHOOL in New Yo,rk City announces Teacher Intern Program. . The LISLE FELLOWSHIP offers opp.ortunities for ex- periential learning in the . U.S. and abroad. INTERNATION-AL ASSO- CIATION c~AREER, COOPERATIVE AND WORK EXPERIENCE EDUCATORS OFFERS OPPORTUNITIES FOR EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING in the U.S. and abroad. BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY ~announces 1979 Sumrtl:er Student Program for sophomores and juniors in science and engineering. THE URBAN CORPS. of the City of New Yorl5 announces 1979 Summer Management Intern Program. Eligibility is limited to the City residents, PANELS: PANEL ON NEWSPAPERS AND MEDIA: will be held on Wednesday, January lOth at 12:3(} P.M. ill Strauss Loung. PANEL ON CAREERS IN COMMUNICATION: will be held on Wednesday, January 17 at 12:30 P.M. in Strauss Lounge. The Office of PCR, in con~ junction with American Studies and English Departments, is planning .a program on Careers in Communication. The panel discussions will be held on Wednesday, January 17th at 12::-10 P.M. in Strauss Lounge. The panelists are: George Schenectady ~74-1888 Mountebanks Executive Board THE. NEW YORK TIJ~IES is· · still available' in vending machines in front of Carnegie Hall and in the Library, Mon ... Fri., for the rema.inder of the term. . . BLOODMOBILE COMING to Union College January 18th, . · 19th in the Alwnni Gym. 11 AM to 5 PM. Sign up for ap- pointments in Student Activities Office. - CAM~) US CALENDAR •. The Drafting Committee on · Admissions will hold an .open . meeting on Thursday January . 11, 1979 in OLD CHAPEL at 3:30 PM. The purpt>se of the meeting will be to receive. ideas and comments from the coHege · community on admissions strategies. ATTENTION all those in- terested in either working or performing in Cabaret: There will be an organizational meeting on ThUI's. Jan. U at 8:00 p.m. in tile Cabaret room. Anyone :who was formerly on the staff anddces not attend will no longer be considered a staff member. ~ny problems please contact Katey Abrams-'6511. .ATTEN'IION ALL ENGINEERS!!! Party! Party! party! That's right- this Friday., January 12 from 4:3();..6:00 PM in Strauss Lounge there will be a Wine, Beer & · Cheese Party for aU engineering sttidents, faculty and staff. Come and chat in,- formally with your profesSors · and oth-er students. Meet the • faculty from otlter. engineering departments. And don't forget· the T.Shirt Design Contest. Have a good idea for a T-shirt · design? (It must have . something to do with engineering-like \Love an Engineer\ or .. Engineers Make Better )Avers\) Then .sketch it u.p on ~ piece of paper (or on a T-shirt if you want) and bring it with. you . to the party. The designs Will be judged by the faculty advisors frorn each engineer.ing society (A:SME, ASCE, IEEE, SWE, Tall Beta Pi, and Eta Kappa Nu, who are sponsoring this party, hy the way) and the winning design willbeprinted up on T~hirts for sale during National · Engineering Week in February, So come to t'he party this Friday . afternoon and bring your design . (and some friends) with you. · See you there l!! Announcing Winter Production TRYOUTS TRYOUTS· TRYOUTS TRYOUTS ·• TRY\O UT·S TRYOUTS TRYOUTS for THE ROBBER • BRIDEGROOM a musical !I l I I I I I I I I • I • I I • I I e t ! Actors: January 12 (Friday) 7:30-1Q:30 ' January 13 (.Saturday) 1:30- 4:30 and 7:30 -10:30. 1 Musicians: (violin,~fiddle, ·• gJ J; 1( r \R .G M w · be w al m ' bJ w ar: : Cc . c~ • C9 ev pr be 7, th· Su sc .m .in Tt ·at . thi 'he ·• teJ · fin Ca iat1 Me in in ] 20 ar• rru fee ba an· beJ Pr Gh seE or Ca Be - F4 I cor ne~ inf, - FC I me util ref 847 F me util ref1 8471 - PE E F. .J but 'i bat !\1 Dm it. ord da~ r: Wo: s doe Jo Bin

... ~ g:uit~t,-hass, banjo, mandolin):: January 9 (TiJesday), January .. 10 (wednesday) 'and January 11 (Thursday) Jrom 7-9 PM. ·-:sign Up Now In The G'reen • ··Rootn~Nott Memorial Theater. SIGN· UP NOW IN THE GREEN· · ROOM=NOTT . MEMORiAL THEATER!!!! The Robber ·Bridegro~m is a warm, wonderf\11 lively musical . based on the novella by Eudora • Welty; it takes place in and · around Rodney, -- Mississippi; ·'music style is co-untry · bluegrass. ' . · Winter C~rnival Winter term is here again, . and that means the Social . Committee•s annuc.tl Winter Carnival is just around the · c_oiner. Tllis year, with more events and festivities, should . · prove_to be the ·best yef. Events •. begin ()n Wednesday, February · 7, and will continue throughout .. the weekend, .finishing up on S~day the llth. Highlights scheduled include a dinner at : Hale House f()llowed bY dancing . in the Ramada Inn ballroom. The Social Committee members · ate hard at work preparing for · this year.!s carnival and much 'help is needed. Anyone in- . • terested in helping out or just • finding out more ~bout Winter • Carnival, is i,nvited and urged to i attend the· open meeting, . this ·Monday, January 15, at 7:00PM . in the Student Activities office · in Carnegie Hall. -------- P.H.C. BALL Saturday{Jan. 20 at the Girling Center. Tickets are now on sale. The hiill will run from 9:30 p.m. tiU 2 a.m., featuring a live band and open bar. Tickets are $7.50 per couple and $6 single for Greek mem- • bers and $9 for independents. Prices_ wiU jncrease after · Ghursday,'Jan~ 18, For tickets, see your P.H.C. representative or Rich Delane-y at 382-8663 or Carnien Saginario at 372-Q712. Be there! FOR.SALE Foosball table for sale. Good condition. Price $275.00 and is negotiable. Call 372-1884 for information. FOR· RENT FOR RENT-3 room apart- ment, $175 per month, all utilities included, stove and refrigerator included. Call 355- 8470. FOR RENT-4 room apart- ment, $185 per month, all utilities included, stove and refrigerator included. Call 355- 8470. \ PERSONALS Baum- Try not to O.D~ on A & F. · Joanne-Happy .BiL1hday . . . but I'm not sUre JUSt when? .· ·-. -·~-~- You may have won the first · battle, but you lost the war. Matt-Try passing out lately? Don't knock it until you've tried it. If you think .lessons are in order~ I'm available on week- days by appointment only. -- Diane-Get psyched!· (Yeah Wolf I mean you!) --,....-..~- Shelley-$paz out lately? Or does .it only happen in Florida? Joanne -Happy SURPRISE Birthday ...... I KNOW you didn't CONCORDIENSIS, Ja.n1Ulry 11~ 19\19 Page~ arrange it, sure:! ! ! ·Jeff Attent'io't1 Union~only 22 weeks til sUliilher vacation. · Wanted : One. thesis-any subjecHnust be 75 pages typed reward offered~call 370-6155. You lost more than first gearie, dearie. · · ·Staff and Supporters of the · · Cabaret~! just wanted to thank you all for your support and help. I could never have done it without you! Good luck to Katie and Liz,..-l'm sure you'll enjoy tl:!e job as rnuch as I did-,.Sue · Fred....,Special thanks, you're the beSt! ---8. Thanks L., it's REALLY good now . Happy Birthday Laura-'- Love; Sue and Taryn ·To the Brothers of Alpha Delta Phi~the roses were beautiful, Thanks again,-Love, Taryn Jo-Happy Birthda>:-Love, Terri Want to give yourself to someone for Valentine's Day (or any other day)& Do it through pictures. Portraits by Pat Wri;ght--370;.s137 Sue and MiChele~ Thanks for the dinner, LEON', and the PARROTS. I can't think of a ootter way to start a term. Better run, 1 think there's a cali fot you'! Allysia-wish I could make \honey-l{lmon\ chicken like you db. What do you do for an en, core? GUANO MAN~get your head out of your ORCA, and see what fabulous things you can dt>- ''con la drillo \.. Have you tried my \chicken majorca\? Jonny Bamel~Is that all tight for you? . SAG-I said, I said., I said .... What? Scotty--How's life at home'! Billy, Gags, and Stoots~You . ,_ guys are doing a great job-Lets ·'Grandmothers. Your kindnes<; hope it pays off. FUFF is too much. P.S.--:Bob you Join the £ight agaillst cancer; Make a pledge to the FIJI basketball marathon. WATCH FIJI BROTHERS SCORE WITH GORGEOUS GIRLS at Alumni Gym this weekend in a 24-hour marathon basketball game. Silcteen co-ed teams will be taJctng half-hour shifts on the court to benefit the American Oancer .Society. Action gets underwa:Y Friday afternoon at 1:30. Admission is free and r.efreshme11ts will be available. Who know? You may score, too. SPOOK~(since y.Du are no longer a string bean )\-How is Frigga, Chrissy, Surf, Jt!nior or whatever his name is tonight? Had any corners lately? How about some black, blue, yellow green marks!! ,Don't be em- barrassed. Everyone knows about you. Please write m;e at my home address. Love your twin F·rig, Dinah, Bernadette, the nun, Punkin'. , Thank~you mY three Jewish make delicious chicken soup! Dave R-Thank you very much for everything during this past week, you'll make a good· doctor :JOmeday! What's your advice on a cure for an over- worked editor?~Thanks alot · Donna. SENIORS! The deadline for Senior Ye,arbook pictures is Feb. 1st. If' you were away last term or want your picture hiker. again you can get in touch with the professional photographer (felano's Photography Studio, Rotterdam Plaza, 1925 Curry Rd., Schenectady, 356-2491) OR go to Strauss LoWlge on Weds. Jan. 17th between 10 and 12 or after 1, and get your picture retaken. Turn in your pictures. to Mrs. Marra and don't forget to print your name as you want it to appear in the yearbook on the had~ of the photo. · REMEM:BE.R~Feb. 1st is the last day to hand pictures in! ! ! ! ! ItS different things to different people Of course. all employees at the National Security Agency ha\'e certain things in common: they art:; · civilian employees of the Department of Defense: they are en.gaged in technical projects vital to our hatlori's communications security or a foreign • intelligence production mission: and they all enjoy the benefits that accompanyFederal employment. However. the differences between our career q:pportuni ties are just as interesting as their similarities. For exa1nple .... TO THE ELECTRONIC ENGINEER (BS MS): An NSA career means delving into unique projects which can span every phase of the R&D cycle. An engineer may design. develop. test and manage contracts on comnm!lications. recording. and inJ'ormation storage devices and systems whose capacities and speeds are still considered futuristic in most quarters .. . I TO THE COMPUTER SCIENTIST (BS,'MS): It means appl-ying his or her knowledge in a wide range of sub-disciplines such as systems design. systems pro- ,. gramming. operating systems. computer applications analysis. and·retrie\·al·systems;' -- · -- • ~:~· - TO THE MATHEMATICIAN (MSl: A career means defiNing. formulating. and solving complex communi- cations-related problems. Statistical mathematics. matrix algebra .and combinatorial analysis are just a few of the tools applied by the NSA mathematician. / Interested in learning mure about the difference in an NSA career? Schedule an interview with us through your Student Placement Office today. If we do not recruit on your campus. send a resume to the address gi\·en below. U.S. citizenship is required.

. / \ Page 8 CONCORDIEWSIS, January 11 1 197.9 5porte Skaters Stop Losing Skid The Flying Dutchmen of Union College .pulled them- selves together over the last month and found themselves winning first one, then a second and finally a third contest ~ their last five outings. The Dutchmen recently hosted the annual Union Holiday Tournament and responded with the best hockey of their young season. After losing a hard fought 3-2 over· time decision to Brockport State in the opening game, the Dut- chmen fought back from a 3-1 defeat to defeat NQrth Adam St. 5·3 for their first win of the ::;eason. Along with that win, the Dutchmen were rewarded with the consolation trophy. Colgate University captured the championship be defeating Brockport in the final. -- The Dutchmen then travelled to Clinton, N.Y. to participate in. the Hamilton Holiday Tour- nament. The Garnet drew host Hamilton College in the opening Women Cagers At Home 1: 7t·h Following a long break, after their opening game against Albany Pharmacy, Union College's wemen's basketball teamopens a tight schedule that includes 19 games in less than seven weeks. was a mamstay of last year's 9-7 team. Leading the team in rebounds after that one game are senior Liz Yager (Catskill) with eight, and junior De-bbi.e Sears (Por1smouth, Va.) . with seven. Yager also has four steals. game and out-hustled them to an 8-4 Union victory. In the final the Dutchmen were then defeated 9:.3 by New Haven State. Union's latest game was last Monday night when they travelled to North-- Adams, M.ass .. for a return engagement With the Mohawks. When the final buzzer sounded the Dut .. chmen had prevailed 4·1 ii1 the tough fought battle. Union's next home game will be Jan. 17 against Westfield State. HOCKEY SCHEDULE Jan. 17 Westfield Jan. 20 at Pottsdam Jan .. 23 Plattsburgh .Jan. 26. Colby- Jan. 31 at Buffalo Feb. 3 at· Cortland Feb. 6 at Brockport Feb. 10 at U. of Maine Feb. 15 Cortland Feb. 17 at Holy Cross Feb. 18 at Lowell Feb. 24 Merrimac Feb. 28 Colgate ' - . Coach Lynn Barta's team plays at Ulster Com1ty Com- . munity College on Jan. 17 then returns to the Memorial Field House Jan. 19 against St. Rose. Both games are at 7 p.m. The team lists only two seniors and tw() juniors with four sophomores and two fresh- men. Hoopsters Off To ·slow Start The Union cagers disposed of Albany College of Pharmacy, 57-13 in their long-ago opener, Nov. 30. Sophomore Sheila O'Donnell of Schenecbuly had 18 points in that contest, thanks to a keen shooting eye which netted her nine of 18 from the field. Sheila, a 5-6 whiz, who, can alternate . between _guard and forward, The schedule:. Jan. 17 at Ulster County CC, 19 St. Rose, 24 at Russell Sage, 26 at North Country CC, 27 at Clarkson, 29 at R.P.I. Feb. 2 New Platz, 7 Green Mt., 9-10 Skidmore Tour- nament, 12 R.P.I., 15 North Adams, 16-18 at Siena Tour- nament, 21 at Colgate, 24 Albany St., 27 at Cobleskill. March 2~3 at Smith Tour- nament. . WOME·N'S BASKETBALL ROSTER! NO. NAME CLASS HT POS 10 Bowers, Andrea '81 5-6 G 24 Downey, Debbie '81 5-3 G 22 Garcia, Elisabeth '82 5-11 F 14 Hamilton, Patricia '81 F 33 Key, Sandi '80 6•1 F 20 LeBlanc, Lynn '82- 5-4 G 12 Lett, Kathy '79 5-1 G 21 O'Donn~ll, Sheila '81 5-6 F\G 30 Se!!lrs, Debbie '80' 5-10 F 15 Wrenn, Carol '82 5 G 25 Yager, Liz '79 5-9 F Indoor Track Ready To Go The Indoor Track team is ready to try to repeat their individual and team successes of last year. Chuck James looks forward to a schedule which contains large and very competitive teams. This season he will not be disappointed. Union will have duel meets against Division I powers Dartmouth and Colgate. Also they Will face Springfield, Oswego, Plattsburg and their area rival Albany. In the field events, Union has Jim Zalucki in the pole vault and Earl Chilton and Henry Wright in the difficult triple jump. In the high jump, Dave Cozzens and Cliff Rodgers will again compete in the event they dominated last year. In the shot put, Union has strong men Bob Pavacic, John Smith and Martin Smart who are fresh- men along with Matt Carley. In the track events, Sprinters Matt Blum, Ed Dingman, Lee Parish, Mark Mazzon give the team strength in 100 yd. and 220 yd. events. Tom Stegmen and Andy Barber alon~ with Blum and Mazzon will leap in the high hurdles. In the middle and distance events, Matt Guilfoyle will run the 440 yd. as Pete Vielkind and Dave Rohwasser. will compete in the 600m and the half mile, All three will be part of Union's mile relay team. Brian Liss, and Jack Conor will run in the grueling lOOOm, mile and the two mile runs. Kevin Scheuer is the backbone of the running team as well as the team captain. He will compete in the, 1000m, mile, two mile events and will be the man.to beat as he always is in all these events. He will also· be part of the rnile relay team. Union has already started the season in gooct form. They travelled to the University of Vermont with only seven members of the team and finished third of 17 teams. Kevin Scheuer broke their field house records as he won both 800m and l500m. Matt blum finished-\ second in the 55m high hurdles and Dave Cozzens was third in the high jump. · byJIM €0MBS The varsity basketball team is off to a 4-5 start after its first nine games. The team features seven returning lettennen; Co- captains Steve Abba and Joe Cardany, Dim Koubek, K.R. Marshall, Steve Nearpass, Greg Sobocinski,. and Chris Walsh. New-comers are John Krum, Don F~_l)man,. Mike Canning, Sr;ott Troxell, Jim McGhee, Joe Uveges, and John Jarosak, the latter three all freshmen. The season opened with a 54- 51 loss on the road to Utica. Cardany and Sobocinski provided most' of the Union offense with 22 and 20 points ~< respectively. The Dutchmen came roaring back with three consecutive wins at home over Middlebury, Lockhaven, and · Hobart. Cardany's 20 points and Krwn's 11 rebounds led. the way in the 77.:60 victory over Mid- dlebury. Against Lockhaven, Cardany pumped in 28 and Dan Koubek and Krum chipped in with 12 and 10 points apiece in a thrilling <>vertime · ·win. Jhn McGhee pUlled down a game .high 10 rebounds for the Dut- chmen. Going into the Hobart game (Hobart was 6-1), J}nion was a decided underdog. However, Union's hustling defense rattled the much taller Statesmen and the Dutchmen Kovacs ·Named All-American Star back John Kovacs of Union College was given an honorable mention for the 1978 All America Soccer Tearn by the National Soccer Coaches Association. The , recognition follows Kovacs' selection to the first team ofthe All New York State team. Kovacs led Union to a 10-4 record this year, as the Dut- chmen gained the regional finals of the NCAA playoffs. Kovacs is from Dalton; Massachusetts • ·came .away_ with a 74-71 win. Don Fellman led a qUintet of Union players in double figures witht3 ,points as the sophomore ~ transfer from Oberlin College (Ohio) turned in his best ofM fensive performance of the season. John Krum muscled his way to a season high 16 rebounds. · Just before (::hristmas, the Garnet made a two-game trip to · Virginia. In the first game they . lost to Radford College 75-6ft Joe Oardany tossed in. 23 points and Greg SoboCinski added 20 markers and 10 rebounds. Two nights later the Dutchmen ran into undefeated Division II powerhouse Roanoke_ COllege. Despite this, Union played well and at one point In the second half rallied from 16 points down to pull within 6 with just over 7 rpinutes left, before a Roanoke . , . blitz·put the-game out of reach. The reserve play of Scott Troxell, Frank Miller, and Chris Walsh should. be cern- . mended as they chopped. a 26 , · point deficit down to 16 in just a · .· minute and 30 seconds befor~ three points by Roanoke made the final 85-66. Union returned from the holiday break ·to host Central . Connecticut last Wednesday. Despite having one of their poorest performances to date, Union remained close up until the final seconds before losing 59-54. The Dutchmen shot a dismal 23-70 from the floor. '.['his past weekend, the hoopers participated in the Capital District Tournament. On Saturday the Dutchmen lost to eventual winner Albany State. At one .point the score was 33~33 before the Great Danes pu:lled away to win 61-44. Sunday night 'Union showed what the~fare capable of in a 77- 66 Win over RPI to win third place in the to-urnament. An outstanding defensive game which produced 26 RPI tur- novers and excellent · shot selection were the keys to victory.. All.:tourney team selection Joe Cardany led the way With 26 points and Sobocinski and Koubek added 14 and 10 po~ts apiece. Krurn hauled in 10 rebounds. Junior guard Steve Nearpass played his best game so far, tossing in 5 points and grabbing 5 rebounds and also played excellent defense as did Steve Abba who turned in his most solid -per- formance of the year. ,. ' ( Vol A ( As edUCI they tinue front. enrol aged terizE lesse1 peak1 Eighl post•; dimi univE and over~ deal in thE numl threa indh Unim beg-i1 exarr comr l..a: an OJ the -~ Drafl lade11 admi stud, thou gath1 plic~ decli Tht discu mai11 size tracti stant ques· amo1 Colle sacri its- sl .pools it h: quan1 What bene main any,, situa1 Ware hepr as v stand \tra{ line? Un .argw

Founded at Union College 1877 . - \lol. lOS, No.lO Day, chairman.ofthe Board of Trustees. Appli~ants: Schenectady, New York Thursday, Jan. 18, 197'9 Board Approves Buclget by BRIENO'TOOLE and.MARK BURNETT The winter meeting of the Board of Trustees was highlighted oy the re-election of its present slate pf officers for 1979, the allocation of funds for the maintenance of Library and Garis fields, and the .granting of tenurability to s~ professors. The re-election of Chair- . person Richard G.. Day., Vice Chairperson Thomas E .. Hanigan, Secretary Arthur M. Vash, and General Counsel Armfld' I. Bruns was ac- cQmpanied QY a great deal of enthusiasm and appreciation for the leadership shown by t)lem over the last year. In other of.ficial business, at the request of Trustee LQuis D. Miltimore, class of 1929, who has served for more than 25 years, the board changed his classification from . Life Trustee to Trustee Emeritus. · In response to deteriorating conditions, the Board authorized the expenditure of up to $200,000 for the rehabilitation of Garis and LibrE:!r·y fields.. The Board directed its College Resources Committee to seek outside funding for the project. The Board hoped that the money would come neither .from the endowment nor from the current operating budg.et. Improvements are to com- mence as soon as scheduling and weather will permit. The January meeting Robert Kellett and Housh. Director Dave Wood on th• Christmas Vacation paintin~ project. All those present- at thr committee meeting were im- pressed with the results ami cost involved. They were also apprized of dampend RA. morale over the past term. Increased compensation ancl diminshed student hopes for cooking in the dorms were suggested as factors for an improved situation next year. Quantity Or Quality traditionally sees the bulk of Tenure actions. The six professors deemed tenurable according to UniQn's system were Nydegger, G. Reynold$, Schneller, Seeman, G. Smith, and Steckler. The Academic Affairs COnunittee forwarded these names to the full Board, and the coiiU;Ilittee under the chairpersonship of Dr. Lee Davenport, conducted a special three hour, Tuesday night session to discuss the cases and the process. Their efforts ought to underscore the fact that a healthy tenure system depends heavily upon diligence -from all segments of the .college com- munity. The Board also learned that $50;000 would be spent this year only, in addition to a proposed regular $50,000 for dorm fur- nishings, The College has traditionally fallen far below ·this later figure and it regarded as minimally necessary to ma~ntain the status quo. Therefore the first amount is seen as a ''catch-up\ effort. CoUpled with a proper inventory procedure and regular replacement, dormatories may soon become and remain liable. At a time when money in the budget is allocated only at the price of deprivation for another worthy, but lower priority project, vandalism should be seen as especially reprehen- sible. The hope is also that tbese ilpprovements will permit the identification of individuals who .persist in behaving like \poorly adjusted 12-year olds/' - by DOUG ROSENF~LD As inStitution& of higher education move into the 1980's they _are being, ~d Will con.~ tinue to be, compelled to con- front a situation of declining enrollments. 'l'he giutof college- aged stud~nts which ·charac\ terized the 1960's and, to a lesser degree, tlie 1970's, has peaked arid will tail off in the Eighties as the effects of the post-World W(lr II baby boom diminish. The colleges and universities that, in the sixties and seventies, feasted 011; the oversupply of students must deal with the threat of drought in the eighties. as the drop in the number of pot~Dtial applic1:1nts. threatens to evaporate their individual· applicant pools. Union College is only- slowly beginning to realize and examine its own position in this common fate. _ Last Thursday afternoon at an open, informal meeting of the Middle States Admissions Drafting Comhlittee a faculty- laden crowd sprinkled with administrators, two or three student government reps, though . devoid of students, gathered to discuss the im- plications for UC of the declining enrollment trend.· , The proceedings pivoted on a discussion ,of the feasibility of maintaining Union's present size concurrent with its traditionally_ high academic standards. Several central questions were addressed among them; must Union College now, or in the future, ~acrifice quality for quantity in Itsc- student body as applicant . pools threaten to dwindle? Will it 'have to sacrifice some quantity to maintain quality? What are the relative costs and benefits of cptting - sbe t.<> maintain q!Jality and what, if any, are the alternatives? Is the situation as serious as Prof. Ward Ludwig suggested when he projected that, in the future, as We . consider maintaining standards and size, we will face \tradeQffs somewhere along the line?\ , · · Underlying 'all of the _ argum~nts advanced at the meeting was a dispute·over the validity of the dilenuna itself: is the applicant pool in trouble? Professor Joseph Finkelstein, chairman of the Admissions Committee, advised· those presentthat \the applicant pool is up this year,\ adding that by some proJections it must be up by 40 pereent to maintain the Same quality. But the rise iil the size of the pool is not the only concern with which the school must wrestle. The, quality of students com- posing that applicant ·pool, as well as the number of quality students Willing to attend Union in view of alternatives, fs of more elemental concern. Operating in this latter in- stance is what Dean of Faculty Paula D. Brownlee terms a \cascading effect.\ Due to the market shortage-of high-power students,. those schools at- tempting either to maintain or increase their enrollments almost necessarily must accept students less qualified than those they usually select: The upward mobility of the student is. increased, as the \better\ schvols draw students from those \below\. Union, it 'is feared, could feel, in an adverse manner, the effects of this student flow. The nationwide. declining enrollment trend is proving itself fatal for marw institutions in the lower academic echelons of highereducation. · The con~ sequences it holds in store for Union, albeit perhaps not fatal, are potentially s~tious enough to merit examination. One might be lulled into a dangerous inactivity by a comment like tha_t of Prof.· George D . Reynolds, who talks of a ''time perspective\ in addressing the applicant pool problem, askin·g \bow urgent and pressin,g is the problem?\ . -The purpose of the meeting was iii large part, according to Prof. Ruth Stevenson, to open ~or discussion the issue of future admissions strategy because, essentially, nobody else is doing anything · about it. Likewise aware of the planning im- perative posed by the problem of the applicant _pool,, Prof. Finkelstein gave voice to his concern. Of the admissions di~;cussion$ ip ~eneral and the tentative budget cutback schemes under consideration in particular, he views all as ''a planning , exercise,'' a • 'test -horse,\ designed to help \avoid mote drastic situations you mi-ght come across:'' Prof. David Ulbnan seconded these beliefs, recommending to the meeting the need for existing \contingency plans if we must do it.\ The argument for decreasing class· size in the lnterest of preserving dass quality was Continued on page 9 The Board also approved certain changes in ap- pointments. Amongst these were the promotion of ASsociate Professor Erik Hansen to the rank of Professor ,and the granting of sabbatical leaves to 16 faculty for the academ!.c year 1979-1980. In the area of student affairs the Board took no official ac- tion. Instead it heard from Admissions Director, Jay Shupe reported that ap- pUcations are running ahead of the nwnber received at this time last year. While the bulk are expected from now until the Feb. 1 filing deadline, several trends were notable. Arts and engineering were way up and the six year law and med programs were down slightly. Continued on page 5 Merit Dispute Continues by DOUG ROSENFELD Union College's \merit system,\ a device through which faculty salaries are adjusted annually, is meeting with severe criticism from many of those who it is designed to serve. Those who attack the system view as its most ob- jectionable f!lult the inequities resulting from its distributive decjsion of recent years. As a result of faculty discord over the. issue, the eighto member Co_nimittee on Faculty (COF), the group charged with examining faculty salary policy, bas this year been called upon to review the merit system. According to Prof. William Martin, chairman of the COF, the amount of·eonsideration the committee has given the merit issue has been necessarily limited. The committee's at- tention has been diverted to other areas, primarily ''ad hoc committee reports on tenure and sabbatical funds' problems, These projects are finished, according to Martin, but with the ''thi·rd year reviews\ next on the agenda, there is again scarce time for consideration of ''merit system\ amendments. Faced With a deadline for salary increase recom· mendations and with faculty ~··pressure upon tbem ~dvising against further inequities, the committee recommended an across-the-board increase of 7.5 percent of which about \7 percent would be in faculty wage increments and a half percent .in fringe benefits.\ This recommendation is viewed by Prof. Martin as a compromise. He states tnat through it the merit concept is maintained as \those who already have benefited by merit )lave tl}e advantage over those who have no or less merit.\ Meanwhile, the 7.5 percent increase of all salaries is egalitarian, and allows for those Who otherwise would get no increase to maybe keep pace with the cost of living. At the J~n. 10 meeting of thr board of trustees in New York . City, according to a memo from the office of the president, \the board approved this recom· mendation unanimously. That salary and wage adjustments Continued on pagE\ 5 ..... 4 ,_ ·;~ ,· . - : ~~\\'·<;\> ' - ' , . ~ ~ ' ,- > William Martin, chairman of the Corrtmittee on Faculty

Page 2 OONOORDIENSI$, Jan'l)4ry 18, 1979 Editorials Vandalism & Misconduct ~ The Union social community is currently suffering both its image and quality of life to be marred by the s11rging incidence of acts of blatant vandalism and o·:her misconduct. The malicious and wa:nton d•~struction of overhanging lights in Fox; the bl:-eaking down of doors in West; the shooting-out of w\ndows in Hickok; the assaults on a student in the Rathskellar; the injury of another student in a second, unrelated altercation there--these are the incidents that have highlighted the year to date. If 'Qy themselves they cannot cause outrage. sufficient to generate a campus demand for more severe ad- ministrative treatment of offenders, perhaps when brought to light and considered as a group they may. These most recent incidents involving student misconduct are neither less serious nor more un- common than those which many of us have witnessed in the past. Surely it is,. in part at least, our passing acceptance, indeed in many cases our condoning and even encouragement, of such violence that gives it the license it needs to continue unabated. In view of recent developments, it seems that the time has collle for the student body to recall that license, one se in- judiciously issued and so consistently renewed. Before more people are hurt and property destroyed, those responsible must be made aware that they can not inflict damage with impunity. At the very least, they must realize that the students no longer can afford, nor are they willing to pay, the yearly damage bill. Student efficacy in the matter comes upon a severe limitation; while we·may lobby for affirmative ad- ministrative action in the matter, we may not enferce disciplinary measures on our own. And so we must rely on the college administration to use a firm hand on the reigns of the runaway horse, Misconduct, and cut the' gallop to a trot, if a total halt is out of the question. Until the administration proves itself willing and determined to contain the violence which runs rampant at ~nion, a state of relative chaos shall prevail. And so will the credibility level of the ad- ministration suffer, for the students can not with any considerable degree of conviction respect an ad- ministration that sets codes of conduct which, by aU visible evidence, it is utterly powerless to enfo:rge. And so the ball now rests with this administration; it is their play. We would like to hear your opinion. Please address alled.itorial responses to: Letters to the Editor, Box 2517 Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. ~.-ou 'II.· ~!Ci\' :S1r-o;--~ C!Ionrnr 17 ,t'{r-1!: ' 5 htrnsts to~-::,~.~~ Editors-in-Chief Associat~ Editor News Editors Feature Editors Layout Editors Arts Editor Sports Editors Photo Editors Finelines .,/lLli~. ~tCTAio\ . David Rubin, David Schmertz Matt Nagorsk:y J.im Davis, Doug Rosenfeld Donna Creeley, Sue Barnhart Terri Moran, Alissa Schagrill Steve Monosson Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba Cary Feuennan, Pat Wright JanDeDeka Melissa Cragin Calendar Staff Cindy Aranow, Mindy Broser, Joanne Malin,. Sue Marr, Rachel Mandel, Pam Ryan, Sara Simmons, Diane Wolf Photo Staff Jonny Bamel, DavidGooler, John ottanviano, Richard Sher CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady:> New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publications Inc., 142 Main .Street, Oneonta, New York 13820 (607-432-6737). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Third Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, $10 a year, delivered anywhere in the United States. A . ~ ) ( fea U!~ Co~ Col be ~ . eq1 Col th¢ hls A 'Unil of' Uni lobJ Yoi Sou fds and beU cou rea T opp the of E:v:E kill can Na~ bev am4 ·~. . nev aga F guy He the dav Okl, sud, to. f< the Ital and no' my to v the· thrc I': bed beg: the boUJ By lege ineq but SUI1 cobl cow r~ sod< Uni4 as v witt I'd I caQJ only stor. sme St Hol1 .chei with the nort inte1 the the hori: cien the outc sine Takl Proll surr new lin dE dogs

Pane 2 OONOORDIENSIS, January 18, 19\19 Editorials Vandalism & Misconduct • < The Union social community is currently suffering b:>th its image and quality of life to be marred by the s1uging incidence of acts of blatant vandalism and o·:her misconduct. The malicious and wanton d1~struction of overhanging lights in F_ox; the b1:-eaking down of doors in West; the shooting-out of windows in Hickok; the assaults on a student in the Rathskellar; the injury of another student in a second, unrelated altercation there--these are the incidents that have highlighted the year to date. If by themselves they cannot cause outrage sufficient to generate a campus demand for more severe ad- ministrative treatment of offenders, perhaps when brought to light and considered as a group they may. These most recent incidents involving student misconduct are neither less serious nor more un- common than those which many of us have witnessed in the past. Surely it is, in part at least, our passing acceptance, indeed in many cases our condoning and even encouragement, of such violence that gives it the license it needs to continue unabated. In view of recent developments, it seems that the time has come for the student body to recall that license, one so in- judiciously issued and so consistently renewed. Before more people are hurt and property destroyed, those responsible must be made aware that they can not inflict damage with impunity. At the very least, they must realize that the students no longer can afford, nor are they willing to pay, the yearly damage bill. Student efficacy in the matter comes upon a severe limitation; while we may lobby for affirmative ad- ministrative action in the matter, we may not enforce disciplinary measures on our own. And so we must rely on the college administration to use a firm hand on the .reigns of the runaway horse, Misconduct, and cut the gallop to a trot, if a total halt is out of the question. Until the administration proves itself willing and determined to contain the violence which runs rampant at Union, a state of relative chaos shall prevail. And so will the credibility level of the ad- ministration suffer, for the students can not with any considerable degree of conviction respect an ad- ministration that sets codes of conduct which, by all visible evidence, it is utterly powerless to enforce. And so the ball now rests with this administration;' it is their play. We would like to hear your opinion. Please address all editorial responses to: Letters to the Editor, Box: 2517 Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. <l,.ou. '>.· ~I(j'•, 1-tr ~,;.:,.;;-, ~ ~unrnr 17 l tr:!!: 95 bittt.ais ?J~';:,~1J .. /lLt;~ 0\\ David Rubin, David Schmertz Matt Nagorsky Jim Davis, Doug Rosenfeld Donna Creeley, Sue Barnhart Terri Moran, Alissa Schagrin Steve Monosson Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba Cary Feuennan, Pat Wright JanDeDeka Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor News Editors Feature Editors Layout .Editors Arts Editor Sports Editors Photo Editors Finelines Calendar Melissa Cragin Cindy Aranow, Mindy Broser, Joanne Malin, Sue Marr, Rachel Mandel, Pam Ryan, Sara Simmons, Diane Wolf Staff Photo Staff Jonny Bamel, David Gooier, John Ottanviano, Richard Sher CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thrusday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publications Inc., 142 Main Street, Oneonta, New York 13820 (607-432-6737). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Third Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, $10 a year, delivered anywhere in the United States. 9~. t ' ' ~~ : ... \' smeerely~ . N.J,G. Sincerely i . ·' · .Andy Sandler · · C\hairman Speakers Forum - I ·(1 feat the co a Coli he I equ Coli the his . A: unir of 1 Uni1 lobs Yor Seq I frisl and beU cow rea< Tl opp1 thee of · Eve kill cane Nas bew amc neve agai Fi guy He I the 1 daw Okl< sud< torE the, It al and no \1 my1 to v thet thro I' I bed' begi the bour By lege in co but surv cobt cowl Ia sodd Uni<J asw with I'd I cam only stor1 smel I Stl Holt -cher with the nortl inter the the I horb cient the 1 outc1 sine· Taki proh surre new. unde dogs

I 1•- !~t , < \ l '... • . ·~ f!O'N.OORDIENSIS, Ja-nu~/r1! 18~ 1919 Page 3 A Jour,;,ul; -~-......------·· In Search Of The AmeriCan West (EditQr's Note(The fo11owing feature ~onsists Qf eJ(c-~rp~s of t]!~ jQurnal of a Briton.. Peter Coates is a graduate of Union College and during ~e $UmriJ.et he borrowed a tent ·and some ~qillpment .·from. the Union Cnll~ge Outing ·Club and toured the H American. West\. Her.e are hf$ accounts and opini_9ns . . . ~ After spending a while on an uninhabited island off the coast of Maine, with a _friend from Union, living on crabs and lobster; I hitched out of New York City heading for The South. Time for a last game of frisbee on Yorktown Battlefield and a farewell to .a southern belle, l · then set out ctoss. - country with . a_ cardboard sign reading ''California\. following · us in Pied . Piper fashion, juxtaposed With SChlit~ cans, baseball caps and pick-.up trucks. · The d~ns1ty of billboards, the garish brilliance of the neon and the crassness of the advertising seems to in,. crease proportionately the further west one travels. Motel aecommodati<m in. Holbrook Is prov-~ded in stone tepees. July 13, Grand Canyon National Park I've just taken a dip in the Colorado,. whiCh is supposed to be only 10 ·degrees c. but was much warmerth,flnthe sea up in Maine. My reactions to the canyon are mixed. The scenery · is outtageou8 but somewhat tamed. lfhe OOttom- of the July 6, c~nyon is almost as hectic and Little Rock, Arkansas bustling ·as the rim,. except that there areniules instead of cars. Tormented by the stllleri, . Phantom Ranch, a motel with oppressiv~ hu.n'lidity, l long fQr store and a beerball where the cool desert nights. The noise thirsty hikers can queli their of the insects· is deafening. thirsts with a can of Coors are E:very bug that approaches l .as anomalous as Walden Pond kill by dripping wax from my in Central Park. The entire candle: After being stranded in caurse.ofthe trail to the bottom Nashville for over two hours, ·of the canyon is punctuatea by bewildered and· ahonymous. explanatory geological amongst a frenzy of cars, I vow placques Which. are admirable n'ev~r to accept a ride into a City from an educational· viewpoint again. . but detract from its aesthetic Finally, I l::lm picked up by 'a appeal'. Great natural beauty guy going out to settlea'in L.A. ought not to be so accessible. It He figured !)n driving throUgh is an insult. The problem seems the night and making Texas by · · to be partly that the area ofthe dawn. Just before the canyon actually accessible to OklahOma State Line came a visitors is so circurilscribea that sudden 'volte face'. He decided it leads to overuse (trails are to return to Tennessee to marry like highways) and one feels as the girl he'd left that morning.· if one is in a heavilf populated It all sounded like a bad country area. Climbing. out of the and We'Stern song; bUt I was in canyon, I felt angered and no way indignant at having lost depressed. Cigarette butts take my ride to California. I planned over 25 years to decompose, but to visit places on the way and are dropped heedlessly. Some the temptation to travei straight hikeFs were wearing fliP.,flops through was now .removed. and carrying transistor radios, groaning and moaning, but July 7,. determined to 'do' the canyon. Shamrock, Texas Only America could have a Grand Canyon. Only America couW screw 1t up. · July 18, The Eligh Sierra Trail, July 25, Los Altos, San Francisco Bay Hitching in Califarni~ seems · rnore diffictllt than anywhere else. Carfulls of Mexicans swerving as if to run me over ·make. me feel like a street bum rather than a gentleman of the road. Hitching is made difficult sintply because tlte anti- hitching laws are rigidly en:- forced on the freeways. I get picked up by a cop, hut all he does is take me to a sb.ady spot where I can bitch legally. I Walked across the Golden Gate Bridge imagining how people tripping would get the im- pression they could fly out over the 'banks· of. fog rolling,, .billowing and belcn:ing in- ~essantly in from the Pacific. July 28 I took the subway over to .Berkeley to visit a· .friend from Union Who transferred out there in March. ·He was psyched to hitch horne to the East Coast for .a while after reading Kerouac's ·on The Road' and 'Dharma :Bwns'. Maybe this. is Qllr only means of catching a glimpse of th.e sixties. · August .2, Big Sur. My worst day's hitching ever. lwaited four hours for a ride out of Monter-ey. My visit to Can- IJery Row (Canna)lis Row) was the closest thing to ·pilgrimage I've ever undertaken. lrrunortalized by Steinbeck, the ()fd Bear Flag Whorehouse and _ :Lee Chong's grocery are still standing. Sleeping on the beach, cramped bet ween the high V!ater mark and the precipitous cliffs, the oppressive fo~ lifts · momentarily in time--for the.s sunset. I feast on seaweed fresh out of th~ ocean with a pair of chopsticks fashioned out of a couple oi twigs. I malte a new sign reading 'Alaska'. That ()Ught to raise a feW laughs, if no rides. August 5,. Oregon Out$ide of Santa· .Cruz, I get picked up by a veteran hippie, beads, kaftan, the lot, who had to make it to San Francisco for6 p.m. to,meet a dealer. A cocaine addi\ct he had spent 1600 dollars on the stuff that week, but reckons he makes the same amolll'lt fixing the e:&change rate between the US and Canada. That Oregon coast is almost as beautiful as the West coast of Scotland. August 8, Olympic National Seashore, Washing~on I'm lying on my sleeping b~g amongst the debris of logs hurled up by the ocean during winter storms, etched into bizarre and eerie shapes, most disturbing when sillhoueted against' the declining sun. I am h~king along the beach . with a couple of other wanderers, passing the time of day meditating, sk1nnydipping, doing yoga and trying to avoid the skunks and chipmunks. August 10, Depressing Rain This is the most English weather I've run into since those first gloomy weeks in Schenectady. I can handle nocturnal visits from bears, rattlesnakes and sleeping next to the highway, but not rain. As time is running out,. I have to p1ake two decisions. Whether or not to press on to British Columbia. Whether to a;>ply for a visa extension to enable me to stay until the end of September and earn my plane fare home fruit-picking. August 15, Seattle -. Dryll:lg .out at the apartment of some kind.lady who has taken me in, I've given up the idea of going to Vancyuver. Too much like Britain for one thing. Instead, I ·wander ar und America's origirial 'skid row', tripping over dissolute Indians lying drWlken in the gutters. Definately the friendliest city I've visited in the USA. Late August, a Peach Orchard somewhere near Wapato, Lower Y ~ddma Valley, Interior Washington. Somehow, I've managed to get hired by the only hippie ranch manager in the valley. Last n~ght,. we drove .out to visit some of his friends on the nearby Indian reservation, cow and horse men, burnouts who spoke about driving horses across Montana. The scef!ery has changed rapidly, from the saturated greenery of the Cascades to scrubby semi- desert. It reminds me of New Mexico, the type of climate and terrain. I'm beginning to crave. 'IJle cheap Canadian Whiskey fl9ws and we abnost get into a fight with some yoWig Indians. The peach h~rvest has been interrupted by an unusual rainy spell, so we sit around smoking Columbian ·and listening to Sergeant Peppers. Aresa, the orchard mutt, keeps breaking into my tent and stealing my - peanut butter and banana sandwiches:- Nothing to do but watch the peaches fatten, hang out in seedy frontier rooms and play pool with the wetbacks in some Mexican cantina. Then off to pick huckleberries on the slopes of Mt. Adams, perched on a rickety stool in the back of John •s pickup singing 'Sloop John B'. By now the peaches ar.e perfect but ~oo ripe to go to market. So I didn't make much mQney but what the hell. September 15, Glacier National Park, Montana The Rockies are stupendous, but do not touch my soul in quite the same way the Sierras did. Maybe my senses are becoming dulled. Perhaps I am taking wilderness for granted as it has been my natural habitat for Continued ou page 4 I'm camped out on the dry bed of the Red River, \official'' beginning of The West, wherce the Okies stayed, California - boutrd out. ofthe 1930s' dustoowl. By now; I'm running op the legendary· Route 66, largely ineorporated into Interstate 40, but . not ,entirely obliterated, surviving as a bumpy, two-lane cobbled road tnrough innocuous · ·Sequoia National Park, California ·It is such a relief to be back in the midst of a superabundance · of greenery and water. The six hour crossing of the Mohave Desert eradicated my desire to see Death Valley. It must have been soul-destroying for the early settlers to finally reach California to find the desert only jliSt .. beginning in earnest: _Bits- And_ Piece_s cowtowns. • t July9, 'Painted Desert, Arizona ~ I ~m lying comfortably in my sodden tent (borrowed from the Union Outing Club, by the way, a~ was most of my equipment) wtth clay enveloping my feet. I'd made the carnal mistake of ca111ping on a dry river bed, only to be caught by a ,ferocious storm. I hope the coyotes don't smell my dinner. Julyll, Ho]Ji Indi!D Reservation Standing on the outskirts of Holbr-ook, ( munching on -cherries, 1 squeeze into a VW with two girls heading towards the Grand Can.yon. We head north through barren scrubland interspersed with badlands and the occasional- volcanic plug, the highway stretching to the horizon. We stop'off at an an- cient mesa village perched on the pinnacle of a. sheer rocky outcrop, continuously inhabited since the twelfth century. Taking bf photographs strictly Prohibited. It was an almost surrealist mixture of old and new; brick ovens, chickens underfoot and a multitude of dogs and children who began Heading up Central V.:alley to .Bakersfield, l got my first ride off of a trucker, who was initially outraged that I had no dope. \Ass Grass or Gas, Nobody rides for free'', read the sticker above the passenger seat. He unloaded his ·prejudices against New YOrkers and sang the praises of Texan women. He didn't have to - load up his truck with fruit until -6 a.m. and was set on doing some partying. The bar we hit was not exactly the pick-up joint he had been hoping for - we were the only customers - so we played pool until dawn. The Sierras were magnificent, their jagged, fretted peaks reminiscent of the Alps, their deep, dense . pine forests recalling the Black Forest, the meadows a brilliant green rivalli.ng the colours of Ireland. Who needs to go all the way to Europetogaze at stuffy, lifeless cathedrals when the ancient redwoods and sequoias far surpass. anythin·g manmade which the Old World has to boast, in ·terms of . grandeur, dignity. and sublimity. by STEVE RICHARDS These past few years there lias been much talk of grade inflation. This is not a new- probiem. For example, ofthe 79 members of Chester Arthur's class of 1848; tf:mhad the perfect record of 500, seven, including Arthur; received a 49!t. Arthur received a 100 in every course rec{)rded with one exception; he slipped a little in French and r.eceived only a 97. Arthur was elected to Phi . Beta Kappa, - along with about one-third of his class-not quite the way it works today. I talked with two recent almnni this past weekend~ Jeff Gage '77 and George Siletsky ~78. Jeff was an Industrial Economics major aJld whQe he was a student here, complained frequently about academics at Union. He is now working for a company in Conneticut and told me last weekend that he now appreciates the education he received here and feels he is far better prepared than rnany of his colleagues who attended other schools similar to Union. George spent last fall at the School for Performing Art's at Rutgers; As you know George vvas very involved in' theatre bere at Union and this school at Rutgers is highly regar.ded. George said he can now ap- preciate just how good theatre is here at Union, He claims our program is as sophisticated and professional as Rutgers', if not more so. This is a teal tribute to our Arts Department and MoWl- . tebanks. Considering the limited resources they ·must work with, their ac- complishments are truly remarkable. These two told me something. I already knew,' we, as .a College do not know how good we truly are. In 1900 the students here at UJ1ion formed an un· dergraduate student coWlcil, called appropriately enough, ''The Union •University . Undergraduate Council.\ Its membership went something like this: President of the Senior Class, President of the Junior Class, President of the College YMCA, Editor-in-Chief of Concordiensis, secretary of the Athletic Board, two members.,of the Senior Class and two members of the Junior Class to be elected at the ~econd rc!gular college meeting in the fall by the student body. Also, it was stipulated: \No manager or cqptain of any team shall be a member ofthis Council.\ One of the Council's charges was ''to foster healthy College spirit and to keep college politi~s clean.\ If you tllink students are apathetic now, it was far worse back in 1970. Ba~k in May, 1970 the election of class officers were voided due to lack of adequate participation. A second election, scheduled for early October again failed to draw candidates and voters. It wasn't until January, 1971 that they were able to find enough candidates to run and enoug}, students to vote. (I hope I haven•t given you any ideas). I was fortWlate enough to b{ one of nearly 20 undergraduate:- to have dinner at tht: President's House last Saturda~ night. This was the seconi dinner of its kind and I am surf' all of the other students will agree, it was a very enjoyable evening. The Auburns are making a real effort to com- municate with students and considering the fact that they are only here for a year, this effort is especially com· mendable. I am almost afraid to be as complementary as I would like to be because, no doubt, many will see it as 'polishing the apple' or whatever-heaven forbid. Let me just say that the Auburns were graciou.s hosts and I rest assured that the two of them belong in the President's house.

OONVORDIENSIS, January 18, 1919 Page 3 , A journal: In Search Of The American West (Editor's Note: The following feature consists of exc~rpt_s of t]!e j'ournal of a Briton. Peter Coates is a graduate of Unloo College and during the summer he borrowed a tent and some equipment from the Union College Outing Club and toured the 1 ' American West\. Here are his accounts and opinions . . . ) / After spending a while on an uninhabited island off the coast of Maine, with a friend from Union, living on crabs and lobster, I hitched out of New York City heading for The SoQth. Time for a last game of frisbee on Yorktown Battlefield and a farewell to a southern belle, I ·then set out cross- country with a cardboard sign reading \California\. July 6, ·Little Rock, Arkansas Tormented by the sullen, oppressive humidity, I long for the cool desert nights. The noise of the insects is deafening. Every bug that approaches I kill by dripping wax from my candle. After being stranded in Nashville for over two hours, bewildered and aiwnymous amongst a frenzy of cars, I vow never to accept a ride into a city again. Finally, I am picked up by 'a guy going out to settle\in L.A. He figured on driving through the night and making Texas by dawn. Just before the Oklahoma State Line came a sudden 'volte face'. He decided to return to Tennessee to marry the girl he'd left that morning. It all sounded like a bad country and western song, but I was in no way indignant at having lost my ride to California. I planned to visit places on the way and the temptation to travel straight through was now removed. July 7, Shamrock, Texas I'm camp-ed out on the dry bed of the Red River, \official\, beginning of The West, Where the Okies stayed, California - bound out of the 1930s' dustbOwl. By now, I'm running on the legendary Route 66, largely incorporated into Interstate 40, but not entirely obliterated, surviving as a bwnpy, two-lane cobbled road through innocuous cowtowns. July9, ·Painted Desert, Arizona I ~m lying comfortably in my sodden tent (borrowed from the Union Outing Club, by the way, as was most of my equipment) with clay enveloping my feet. I'd made the carnal mistake of camping on a dry river bed, only to be caught by a ferocious storm. I hope the coyotes don't smell my dinner. July 11, Hopi Indi~n Reservation Standing on the outskirts of Holbrook, ' munching on .cherl'ies, I squeeze into a VW with two girls heading towards the Grand Canyon. We head north through barren scrubland interspersed with badlands and the occasional· volcanic plug, the highway stretching to the horizon. We stop off at an an- cient mesa village perched on the pinnacle of a sheer rocky outcrop, continuously inhabited since the twelfth century. Taking 6f photographs strictly prohibited. It was an almost surrealist mixture of old and new, brick ovens, chickens underfoot and a multitude of dogs and children who began following us in Pied Piper fashion, juxtaposed with Schlitz cans, baseball.caps and pick-up trucks. The density of billboards, the garish brilliance of the neon and the crassness 6f the advertising seems to in• ·crease proportionately the further west' one travels. Motel accommodation in Holbrook is provided in stone tepees. July 13, Grand Canyon National Park I've just taken a dip in the Colorado, which is supposed to be only 10 degrees c but was much warmer than the sea up in Maine. My reactions to the canyon are mixed. The scenery is outrageous but somewhat tamed. The bottom of the canyon is almost as hectic and bustling as the rim, except that there are mules instead of cars. Phantom Ranch, a motel with store and a beerball where thirsty hikers can quell their thirsts with a can of Coors are as anomalous as Walden Pond in Central Park. The entire course of the trail to the bottom of the canyon is punctuated by explanatory geological placques which. are admirable from an educational· viewpoint but detract from its aesthetic appeal. Great natural beauty ought not to be so accessible. It is an insult. The problem seems to be partly that the area of the canyon actually accessible to visitors is so circumscribed that it leads to overuse (trails are like highways) and one feels as if one is in .a heavily populated area. Climbing, out of the canyon, I felt angered and depressed. Cigarette butts take over 25 years to decompose, but are dropped h€edlessly. Some hikers were wearing flip-flops and carrying transistor radios, groaning and moaning, but determined to 'do' the canyon. Only America could have a Grand Canyon. Only America could screw tt up. July 18, The High Sierra Trail, Sequoia National Park, California It is such a relief to be back in the midst of a superabundance of greenery and water. The six hour crossing of the Mohave Desert eradicated my desire to see Death Valley. It must have been soul-destroying for the early settlers to finally reach California to find the desert only just beginning in earnest. Heading up Central Valley to Bakersfield, I got my first ride off of a trucker, who was initially outraged that I had no dope. \Ass Grass or Gas, Nobody rides for free\ read the sticker above the passenger seat. He unloaded his prejudices against New Yorkers and sang the praises of Texan women. He didn't have to load up his truck with fruit until 6 a.m. and was set on doing some partying. The bar we hit was not exactly the pick-up joint he had been hoping for - we were the only customers - so we played pool until dawn. The Sierras were magnificent, their jagged, fretted peaks reminiscent of the Alps, their deep, dense pine forests recalling the Black Forest, the meadows a brilliant green rivalling the colours of Ire1and. Who needs to go all the way to Europe to gaze at stuffy, lifeless cathedrals when the ancient redwoods and sequoias far surpass anything manmade which the Old World has to boast, in ·terms of grandeur, dignity and sublimity. July 25, Los Altos, San Francisco Bay Hitching in Californiq seems , more difficult than anywhere else. CarfuHs of Mexicans swerving as if to run me over make me feel like a st·reet bum rather than a gentleman of the road. Hitching is made difficult sim_ply because the anti· hitching laws are rigidly en· forced on the freeways. I get picked up by a cop, but all he does is take me to a shady spot where I can hitch legally. I walked across the Golden Gate Bridge imagining how people tripping would get the im- pression they could fly out over the banks of. fog rolling, billowing and belching in- ~essantly in from the Pacific. July28 I took the subway over to Berkeley to visit a· friend from Union who transferred out there in March. He was psyched to hitch home to the East Coast for a while after reading Kerouac's 'On The Road' and 'Dharma Bums'. Maybe this is our only means of catching a glimpse of the sixties. August .2, Big Sur My worst day's hitching ever. I waited four hours for a ride out of Monterey. My visit to Can- nery Row (Canna)Jis Row) was the closest thing to pilgrimage I've ever undertaken. Inunortalized by Steinbeck, the old Bear Flag Whorehouse and Lee Chong's grocery are still standing. Sleeping on the beach, cramped between the high water mark and the precipitous cliffs, the oppressive fog lifts momentarily in time · ro·r the o!il sunset. I feast on seaweed fresh out of th~ ocean with a pair of chopsticks fashioned out of a couple of twigs. I make a new sign reading 'Alaska'. That ought to raise a few laughs, if no rides. August 5,. Oregon Outside of Santa Cruz, I get picked up by a veteran hippie, beads, kaftan, the lot, who had to make it to San Francisco for 6 p.m. to meet a dealer. A cocaine addict,. he had spent 1600 dollars on the stuff that week, but reckons he makes the same amount fixing the exchange rate between the US and Canada. That Oregon coast is almost as beautiful as the West coast of Scotland. August 8, Olympic National Seashore, Washington I'm lying on my sleeping bag amongst the debris of logs hurled up by the ocean during winter storms, etched into bizarre and eerie shapes, most disturbing when sillhoueted against the declining sun. I am hiking along the beach with a couple of other wanderers, passing the time of day meditating, skinnydipping, doing yoga and trying to avoid the skunks and chipmunks. August 10, Depressing Rain This is the most English weather I've run into since those first gloomy weeks in Schenectady. I can handle nocturnal visits from bears, rattlesnakes and sleeping next to the highway, but not rain. As time is running out. I have to make two decisions. Whether or not to press on to British Colwnbia. Whether to ai)ply for a visa extension to enable me to stay until the end of September and earn my plane fare home fruit-picking. August 15, Seattle Drying out at the apartment of some kind lady who has taken me in, I've given up the idea of going to Vancouver. Too much like Britain for one thing. Instead, I wander ar und America's original 'skid row', tripping over dissolute Indians lying drunken in the gutters. Definately the friendliest city I've visited in the USA. Late August, a Peach Orchard somewhere near Wapato, Lower Yakima Valley, Interior Washington, Somehow, I've managed to get hired by the only hippie ranch manager in the valley. Last night, we drove out to visit some of his friends on the nearby Indian reservation, cow and horse men, burnouts who spoke about driving horses across Montana. The scenery has changed rapidly, from the saturated greenery of the Cascades to scrubby semi- desert. It reminds me of New Mexico, the type of climate and terrain I'm beginning to crave. The cheap Canadian Whiskey flows and we almost get into a fight with some young Indians. The peach harvest has been interrupted by an unusual rainy spell, so we sit around smoking Columbian and listening to Sergeant Peppers. Aresa, the orchard mutt, keeps breaking into my tent and stealing my peanut butter and banana sandwiches: Nothing to do but watch the peaches fatten, hang out in seedy frontier rooms and play pool with the wetbacks in some Mexican cantina. Then off to pick huckleberries on the slopes of Mt. Adams, perched on a rickety stool in the back of John's pickup singing 'Sloop John B'. By now the peaches are perfect but too ripe to go to market. So I didn't make much money but what the hell. September 15, Glacier National Park, Montan~ The Rockies are stupendous, but do not touch my soul in quite the same way the Sierras did. Maybe my senses are becoming dulled. Perhaps I am taking wilderness for granted as it has been my natural habitat for Continued on page 4 Bits And Pieces by STEVE RICHARDS These past few years there has been much talk of grade inflation. This is not a new· problem. For example, of the 79 members of Chester Arthur's class of 1848, ten had the perfect record of 500, seven, including Arthur, received a 499. Arthur received a 100 in every course recorded with one exception; he slipped a little in French and received only a 97. Arthur was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, along with about one-third of his class-not quite the way it works today. I talked with two recent alwnni this past weekend, Jeff Gage '77 and George Siletsky '78. Jeff was an Industrial Economics major a11d while he was a student here, complained frequently about academics at Union. He is now working for a company in Conneticut and told me last weekend that he now appreciates the education he received here and feels he is far better prepared than many of his colleagues who attended other schools similar to Union. George spent last fall at the School for Performing Arts at Rutgers. As you know George was very involved in theatre here at Union and this school at Rutgers is highly regar.ded. George said he can now ap- preciate just how good theatre is here at Union. He claims our program is as sophisticated and professional as Rutgers', if not more so. This is a real tribute to our Arts Department and Moun- tebanks. Considering the limited resources they must work with, their ac· complishments are truly remarkable. These two told me something I already knew, we, as a College do not know how good we truly are. In 1900 the students here at Union formed an un- dergraduate student council, called app\ropriately enough, \The Union 'University Undergraduate Council.\ Its membership went something like this: President of the Senior Class, President of the Junior Class, President of the College YMCA, Editor-in-Chief of Concordiensis, secretary of the Athletic Board, two members of the Senior Class and two members of the Junior Class to be elected at the c;econd rc!g'ular college meeting in the fall by the student body. Also, it was stipulated: \No manager or c&ptain of any team shall be a member of this Council.\ One of the Council's charges was \to foster healthy College spirit and to keep college politi~s clean.\ If you think students are apathetic now, it was far worse back in 1970. Ba~k in May, 1970 the election of class officers were voided due to lack of adequate participation. A second election, scheduled for early October again failed to draw candidates and voters. It wasn't until January, 1971 that they were able to find enough candidates to run and enougl. students to vote. (I hope I haven't given you any ideas). 1 was fortunate enough to b( one of nearly 20 undergraduate~ to have dinner at thl President's House last Saturda} night. This was the secon i dinner of its kind and I am sure all of the other students will agree, it was a very enjoyable evening. The Auburns are making a real effort to com· municate with students and considering the fact that they are only here for a year, this effort is especially com- mendable. I am almost afraid to be as complementary as I would like to be because, no doubt, many will see it as 'polishing the apple' or whatever-heaven forbid. Let me just say that the Auburns were gracious hosts and I rest assured that the two of them belong in the President's house.

Page 4 . OONOlYRDJ:ENSIS, January 1.8,_ 1919 Union Views: I Alumni Gym. 3 by JIM DAVIS With the steady bounce of a basketball and the constant wail Time: 3 a.m. Saturday of amplified music, not to morning, Jan. 13. mention an absence 6f Place: ~umni Gym. . reasonable sleeping areas, It's the 14th hour of the Fiji sacking out was at best a dif- marathon basketball game· to ficult maneuver. B.ut a nnmber benefit the American Cancer of contestants were stili able to Society and tinle for me to take nap for awhile. · the court for my third half-hour Surveying the bodies stint on the court. The tape sprawled out on the sidelines, player someone brought up ·is · Harry Adamakos, a sophomore turned up loud, and right now Fiji brother who played an Bruce Springsteen is launching incredible five-and-a-half hours into his classic \Born to Run.\ of ball-almost twice as much as \Maybe I was also born to most of the other brothers did- run,\ I think to myself . as I remarked, \Seeing all, of these prepare for another round of guys up here at this hour makes action. But by this time, all me proud to be associ~ted with anyone can manage is a walk. them.\ \Slow-down\ is the name of To be sure, the action at the game, and for the next ten Alumni Gym during the hours, as .. well as · for the marathon just before sunrise preceding 14, it appears all was surrealistic. For one, it was anyone was born to do was play cold. Flus, there were hardly basketball. any people in th~ place-anyone Sixteen teams, each com- in their right mind who didn't posed Qf Fiji brothers. and have to be there wasn't. several female College Throughout the contest, students, rotated on and off the though, a strong feeling of good court for half-hour stints during will prevailed. Everyone made the marathon. That means that it clear they were having a good each player logged three hours time-not only on the court but of playing time. The teams were also on the sidelines. divided into two squads--the red At a couple of q1inutes before and blue, as designated by the eight o'clockSaturday morning, color tee shirt they wore. By the both teams scored .their time the marathon ended, at thousandth point-the b1ue team 1:30 Saturday afternoon, the first on a jumper by freshman blue team found itself on the Bob Brewster and the red team long end of a 1358,1356 score. several minutes later on a tally The marathon's last minutes, by junior C!lrm Saginario. when the red team waged a , ' By this time, the players were spirited but vain effort to visibly tired, as was only to be surmount the blue team, which expected, since they had each had held command of the match already played about two hours for most of the event, were of ball. The pace of the games probably the most exciting from slowed from then until several a spectator's standpoint. · minutes before the close, when But the contest's character- the red- team that was on the its mo()d-was established much court made a frenzied eff<>rt to earlier, during the wee morning tie. up the score. hours, when even most Union Several people at the game College students aren't awake- suggested that it might be a even on weekends. good1dea if the game ended in a Alumni Gym is usually cl'osed duringthese hours, and for good reason. As the players who had to perf<>rrn then can attest to, the heating in·the building was woefully insufficient. And this condition was made much more noticeable because most of the players tried to catch some sleep then. tie; that way no one Would have any hard feelings after having put in considerable effort not only playing basketball but also beforehand, making the arrangements for the event. I don't think so. As a member <>f the losing team, I didn't feel any disappointment. It's a good bet that when :I look back on the marathon, it will be a.m. favorable. Even if the first thing_ that comes . to mind is taking the court at 3 a.m. in a semi-heated building, with Bruce Springsteen singing \Born to Run\ when that's the last thing anyone wanted to do. Y~ar Of The G·o.Ot ' \ ) On Saturday, Jan. 20, the served twice, ·once at five . Chinese Student Association o'clock and once at six ()'clock. will celebrate.the ·Chinese New Tickets for the dinner, which Year with a day ·Of festivities. . promises to be truly an Oriental The CSA invites all member!:! .of I· culinary delight, are available the campus to join them in a \at the Student Activities Office variety of activities planned for or from any' CSA member. The the day. tickets are $4.50 in advance, The events of the day are as $8.00 for couples,. and $5.00 at follows: the door. Hurry and buy your 1:30 p.m.~A Bruce Lee film, tickets for he who hesitates is .Fists ~f Fury, will be shown in lost! SSOl6: Admission .is $LOO. lf, 7: 15 p.m . ...:::...Selections of however, you have bought a Cantonese opera will be per- ticket to the dinner, adlnission . formed in upper Hale fipuse. to the movie is free. · , - 8:00 p.m.~Lena H. Sun, a 2:30 p.m.-An artifact student at Cornell who attended exhibition Will be on display in · Peking . Univer~ity last . year, lower Hale House and games of will talk of her experiences in Chinese chess and Go will be the People's Republic of China. · available in upper Hale House 9:0Q p.m.-A Kung· Fu for tliose who vi.ant to test-your demonstration by two students . mental prowess. There will also from RPI will be held. be demonstr~tions . in 9:30 .p.m.---The evening will caUigraP'hY and Chfnese be capped with stirring ren· paintings. / ditions. of. traditiunal Chirrese ,.. 3:3.0 p~m.~A c6(}king folk songs. by members>rof the ·demonstration Will be ~held, CSA. showing the technique in making Chine~ eg.grolls. (There will be free samples). 5 p.m. &: 6 p.m.-A Chinese dinner will be served starting at five o'clock. Because of the limited •capacity ·of Hale House Dining Hall the dinner will be The CSA hopes to s·ee you at Hale House on Saturday when for at least a few hours East will meet West. For further ··inquiries, call Mrs. Marra at Student Activities, or Steve Yuen at-310~975. Volunteer 'Friday More than 20 Schenectady.· area volunteer agencies will be repres.ented tomorrow \af- terno,on in Strauss Lounge a§ part of Union's \Volunteer Day\ activities. The volunteer. exposition is schedtiJ.ed to run • from 1:30-5 p.m. and is designed to offer students ~n idea of the volunteer opportunities ,avail~l!le t~ them in the Capitol District area. · . Volunteer Day is part of the <;ontinuing effort to establish a volunteer services program here. Two students, Andrea Fink and Lisa Katz, assisted by Joe Zolner, director of student development, have initiated the volunteer program this year, and student interest has been surpri~ingly high. More than 200 student volunteer questionnaires were returned at winter term registration, indicating that a significant number of Union students. have some degree of interest in cornmm1ity volun- teer service.· · It is· hoped that the initial phase of 'placing potential Union yolunteers in community volunteer settings of interest to them can begin at Volunteer Day tomorrow. Agencies· at- tending the eXpOsition will have all necessary information for students concerning the nature of volunteer work available, the time commitment expected .of volunteers, the age groups with which the volunteers will be working, as well as general descriptions of services offered through their organizations. In conjunction with Volunteer Day, a guide to student volunteer opportunities has been compiled by Andrea, Lisa and Joe. The 36-page booklet contains listings of volunteer opportunities for almost 50 community agencies and will be avallable to all .persons at:: tending Friday afterQoon's activities. The. booklets will also be ,..dfstri_buted to.the. car»pl!s communtty at large through RA's, fraternity and sorority presidents, department chairpersons and the like~ The Union Volunteer Services Program haS been cooperating With: an analogous group in the City of Schenectady, the Voluntary Action Department of the Human Services Planning Council, located Qn.Jay Street. Maggie Hoemhke of the Voluntary Action Department has been very helpfuj to Andrea,,Lisa and Joe, and it is hope~ that Union's program .will help to, solidffy a mut~ally benefici.rt cooperative r,elationship between the · College and the corninunity. If you have the least bit of - interest in · s.ome type of volunteer experience, stop by Strauss Lounge tomorrow af- terQoon, browse and see what ~ Schenectady . ar-ea agencies haye to. offer, Coffee, ptincb aiid donuts will be served if you have the mWlchies. ·Any questions regarding the volunteer program can be directed to Andrea Fink, Lisa Katz or Joe Zolner in the Student Development Office, Carnegie Hall, 37()..6061. · Senate Meets The All College Senate dismissed a resolution which would have required Senate approval for .calendar changes due to conflicts with religious holidays. Instead, the ad-: ministration was considered the most appropriate body to deal with such conflicts. Although Provost C. William , Huntley felt it important to air public opinion on all matters of College atmosphere in open · discussion, Prof. David B. Potts considered an established policy a \better: move than a · constant vote\. which would allow for a variety of decisions in future senates. Provost Huntley concluded the discussion by stating that he felt confident · the ad- ministration would ·pass the calendar adjustment starting school a 'Week earlier next year on Sept. 15. The only' other order of business was a reorganization move which now makes the Suppo-rtive Services Committee report to the Deati of Faculty and the Admissions and Financial Aid Committees responsible to the Provost. t _ Both Dean of Students Robert ' H. Kellett and Prof. Francis L, Lambert questioned the ex\ pediency of having committees report t9 committees .. Dean Kellett called it a \complex structure which was un- necessary\ ab.d .Prof. Lambert .saw little inforniational value in a student \governace com- mittee which parallels th~ administration and touches only at the top.\ American West Cont'd . . • • • Ct'ntlnued from page. 3 much ()f the past .few months as opposed to a rare relief. When I left the orchard, I was planning on visiting both Glacier and Yellowstone, not to mention a lightening trip to the Grand Tetons. N<>w I see things more realistically. When I . get down from the trail, 1 must head back East. The first snowfall of winter. At least it keeps the . grizzlies away. Late September, Yorktown, Virginia Somehow, I've ended up in Virginia again. ·I made it back East in five days, on pot and Wisconsin apples. As soon as I hit Minrteapolis, I knew I was · back in the cluttered, over- crowded East. My feat of going back to Britain increases. If I find the East Coast constricting, then I'll suffocate in Britain. I .. feel as if I've outgrown Europe. N. Y ~City Manhattan at rush hour.. The ~ 'Ti,mes; is on strike! Where are j you from, Son?' asks some guy at Grand Central. 'Montana', 1 reply. Thats where I left. my soul. My heart is in Virginia. They still are . .;:. '·> Volunteer l:xposit.!on organizers / f.: d• a• c pc m cc fe m YE w so fa p~ te C(] m PJ In is m he se sy sh sa sy co lir av Tb ffil . in< dil co gJ 0 h; H of C( UJ A' M of th w. de in W< su PI he fu he wi ar so stl po co th ga pu pr Ct sh du Scl Stl fr,

/ I OONOORDIENSIS 2 January 182 1979 Page 5 Dean's Perspective Dean of Faculty Paula P. Brownlee sees \this as being a year of anticipation. Several self-studies are underway, and the campus is wc.~iting to see what they will bring.\ Dean of Faculty beginning in September 1976, she noted that . ''there's been a tremendous change in the _mood of the students.\ As an example of the \decisiveness\ she believes is necessary, she noted the feeling of dissatisfaction present among students about the condition of dormitories, reported in the Nov. 9, 1978 and Jan. 11 issues of Concordicnsis. \He shouldn't be the kind of person who would .shunt that kind of problem aside. That only creates bad feelings. Rather, he should say, \We'll find a way to correct it.'\ Dean of Facul.ty Paula Brownlee l'ooks at Union Go !'lege She said \it's a more tranquil campus this year than in the past two. There are still emotional Wldercurrents, but not the widesclae torment of the past. People are doing smaU things, ones that are important- because they add up. And they're ~oing them without a sense of worry.'' Right now, she said that students are particularly awaiting ·the report of the Governance Drafting Com- mittee for the Middle States Review. That document should recommend \some major changes'' that will help determine the future of the College. Similar an tic ipat ion surrounds the selection of a new permanent College president and the candidates' visits to the campus, scheduled for sometime early next month. A qandidate qualified to do this would have to \be someone who has primary experience in undergraduate education. Dealing with students is a major part of the job.\ Salaries Continued. . . • •• Continued. from page I including fringe benefits for faculty and staff of ap- proximately 7.5 ·.percent be a.pproved for 1979-80, Distribution of increases to the faculty w:ill be made on an across-the-board basis .. '' By recommending that faculty salary increases be - determined in this percentage, across-the-board fashion, the COF has, inn effect, tem- porarily suspended the issue of merit. nd although Martin is cognizant that \some faculty felt short-changed last year and many wiB feel the same this year,'' he adds that \no matter what way you cut the cake, someone is bound to lose.\ The . concept of rewarding faculty, through their paychecks, for meritorious. teaching, scholarship, ~nd cozwnunity work is viewed by many as an attractive one. Prof. Joseph Finkelstein maintains that to neglect merit is the \surest way to have a mediocre facUlty.\-For reasons he did not clarify, Martin also sees the- value_ of a merit system, coneeding that \merit should be included\ in future- salary adjustments. - · So what is debasing the merit system as it now stands? At the core of the problemm is a limited financial' resource available for payment of wages. There is just so much money made available each year for . increases, and so the mode of distribution is of essential , concern to those on the receiving end. Finkelstein points to the ''priority conflict between cost of living and merit.\ In view of the absence . of cost of living · esealators in faculty contracts, tho~e who are slighted by the merit distributionnot only go without bonus,· but are pendlized. As inflation soars andmany receive no salary increment through merit, th~y fall further behind in real wages. · Martin laments those qualified faculty who have been passed over for salary in- creases and so must either \dip into savings accounts'' or rely upon ''gifts from their families\ , to pay their bills, The only short-run ·relief he sees for these people rests on what he terms\ a ,further provision\ in the wage system that would provide for \some tenurable faculty.that is I falling further and further behind, :• Of left-over \money to play with,.'' decisions will be made to allot ftinds to the \most needy c~ses.\ Martin admits this form of remuneration is both a haphazard and highly political procesc. Those ·cases that happen to come forward, those that happen to be preferred - these are the .ones that will benefit, while others, once again, are denied a salary in- crement. According _ to Prof. Finkelstein, \Union is about the middle of the schools it com- petes with both in salary and compensation;\ Martin, when askedif he felt it is a sad state of affairs when.professicmals have to rely on a haphazard system for raises, in the absence of merit gains, had just this to say: \I sure do. I sure do.\ Concordiensis Needs: Copy Editors - Subscription Editors Reporters Come to our organizational meeting in Strauss Lounge Monday, ]an. 22, at 8.:00 p.m. New Look ~n Carnegie There's a new look on the ground floor of Carnegie Hall. Over Christmas vacation the hallway connecting the Dutch Hollow Pub, gameroom and office areas was the focus ora- continuing effort to mend and update the decor of the Student Act~vities Building. . Working on what Lorraine Marra of the student activities office deemed an \eyesore\ to the building, a new coat of .paint was applied to the walls and doors and new tiles were laid to improve the path inside the west entrance. Since funding is such a large problem, the progress stopped tnere, but hopeful1y not for long. Mrs. Marra has outlined future plans for that area. She hopes that eventually the walls will carry a bulletin board announcing scholastic and social .events so that each student will have ample op- portunity to keep abreast of college happenings. The money that can be saved from gameroom operations will be put towards the cost of this project. . development of a student loUnge which has been put into use this term. The new lounge, equipped with rugs and comfortable furniture, . is available to students at all times. Costs were approximately. $3,000 and were provided both through the irr~ crease of the Student Activity Fee and through a donation by Robert H. Kellett, dean of students. Mrs. Marra has been pleased with student ·reaction thus far and hopes that fwther im- ' provements can·be made in the lounge in the neat future. Included in these plans are Tiffany lamps and paintings of Union College scenes. For the building in general, Mrs. Marra hopes to secure a branch of the U.S. Post Office with an accompanying magazine stand. She also expresses her wish that Strauss Lounge be made available to students as an all- night study area, adding that these plans can't materialize until the problem of nocturnal security is solved. One method of such security, as ·suggested by Mrs: Marra, would entail making use of students in the same waythat this is done in the Richmond and North College dorms. taking place; and with those yet to come, Mrs. Marra and all of those involved in the project wish to encourage. student support, . opinions, -a~d suggestions on how Carnegie coUld be made a more full unit for student enjoyment. \When l first came here, I didn't think that a president had much effect on the day-to-day functioning of the College,\ the dean said. \But through his actions, he sets the tone for campus activities.\ Though her formal duties as dean concentrate on academic affairs, Dean Brownlee noted that \what happens outside the classroom has a big effect on the student's classroom per- ,forrnance, '' For that reason, she believes selection of a new president is probably \the biggest con- sideration facing the College today.\ Discussing the qualities she feels are essential for a worthy __ candidate, the dean said \we needsomeonewho can generate a positive feeling of morale, a person of courage.'·' Dean Brownlee added that she's pleased with the way things are progressing in curricular affairs-the area she is responsible for. \Th-e quality of the education Union offered remained high during the turmoil of the past few years,\ she said. \We've addea a number of good, young faculty members who students can relate to on a personal level.\ She also noted the popularity and success of the Liberal Learning Program and freshman preceptorial clas·ses, both introduced last year. \Union has a lotto offer,\ the dean observed. \It may not appear that much is taking place this year, but it is. In a qUiet way, very much is going to happen this year that will have a large effect on the College's future development.\ Trustees Cont'd • . • Continued from page 1 No breakdown was given for liberal arts or social science applications. In a move that has im- plications for both governance and admissions policy the Board acted upon a motion presented from the Sub- committee on Admissions (part of the Academic Affairs com- mittee). In principle, the Board approved a change in title for the position of Director t}f Admissions to a DeanshilJ . Commensurate authority and salary for the Dean were also approved in principle.. The suboonunittee 's full proposal is now being_ studied on campus so that specifications can be fully delinated. The fact that these measures may go some distance toward attracting the best candidate for the ad~ missions ,post has not been lost upon the Board. The BUdget and Audit Committee reported that the revenue and expen~itures are, on targ.et in the current 1978- 1979 budget as of Nov. 30. The Board was presented with a balanced budget for 1979-1980, that had been formulated on campus by the administration and endorsed by the Plann~g and Priorities Committee. Included in this package are salary and wage adjustments for faculty and staff amounting to approximately 7¥.! percent. This will be distributed across- the-board by the Committee on Faculty and falls within President Carter's guidelines. Final action on the budget will be taken in April. It was also reported that the income on endowment monies has done better than the market indicates. This is very en- ~ couraging when coupled with the endowment drive which is presently proceeding on schedule. The target date for launching the campaign publicly is January 1980. What· took place over the Christmas break was an off· shoot of efforts which started during the fall term 9f this School year. At that time, · students travelling the main front staircase saw the \ With all of these changes One of the new additions to Carnegie Hall.

Page 6 OONOORDJENSIS~ JanWJJTy 18~ 7979 Infirmary:. A Shot In The Arm by SUE BARNHART and DONNA CREELEY \Treatment is impersonal\; ·'The nurses are nice, they are usually very helpful,''; \Well Jt' s not that good or bad, after all what can you expect from a school infirmary?\ Reaction was mixed when ;tudents were asked to com- Jnent on the infirmary. It seems apparent that there are ~~urrently · many myths Hurrounding the operation of the i1firmary. In order to fairly t valuatethe job the infirmary is coing in meeting the needs of the students Concordiensis has examined the staff and procedures now at work in the infirmary. In addition student reaction to these procedures has also been investigated in order to determine if the in- firmary is truly satisfying the needs of the students it serves. The infirmary staff consists of four very qualified pediatricians, who are also specialized in other areas. The doctors are: Kay Kim, MD,. Winston Wong, MD, James P. Baker, MD, and Eileen Harrison, MD. Dr, Kay Kim received her medic;lal degree from the Korea University Medical School in 1967. She completed one year of internshi_p at the University School in Korea and one year at the · Methodist Hospital at Brooklyn. Her residencies in- clude two years at the Methodist Hospital in Pediatrics and one year in Pediatric Pathology at the Buffalo Children's Hospital. Dr. Kim's past appointments have included two years as Assistant Research Instructor in Pediatrics at SUI'N at Buffalo, one year as an instructor at the Buffalo campus and at the Children's Hospital of Buffalo, and oqe and' one-half years as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics at County Hospital Center in Brooklyn. Dr. Winston Wong .is a 1965 graduate of the University of Hong Kong Medical School. During this time, he received ciinical training at the University of London. His in- ternship was completed in Intern.al Medicine and Obstetrics at the University Hospital in Hong Kong in 1966. He completed ~a residency in Internal Medicine in 1969:,at the New England Deaconess Hospital and Joslin Clinic, Boston, and a residence in Pediatrics at the Children's Hospital Medical Center, Boston in 1970. Dr.· Wong received a two year fellowship from Cornell University in 1971 in Pediatric Nephrology. His experience includes three and one•half years as a Research Physician with the Kidney Disease lnstitute, New York State Department of Health, as well as thrM and one-halfyears as an Assistant Pro\essor of Pediatrics at the ..A-lbany Medical College. Dr. James P. Baker, a native of upstate New York, ·completed his education at Syracuse University and Washington University Medical School. Following an internship and residency at St. Louis Children's Hospital, Dr. Baker entered a pediatric infectious diseases fellowship also at St. Louis Children's Hospital. Dr. Baker is a member of the American College of Emergency Physicians, and co- authored two publications on pediatric infectious diseases. Dr .. Eileen Harrison, a native of Brooklyn, New York,. com- pleted her education at SUNY at Buffalo and the State University Medical School at Buffalo. She C()mpleted her internship and resideney in Pediatrics at Albany Medical Center. Dr .. Kim and Dt. Wong ar:e Board Certified in both Pediatrics and Pedi,atric N~phrology. Dr. Baker and Dr. Harrison are Board Eligible in Pediatrics. In addition to the doctors there are: Head Nurse and new Director of Health . Service, Dor.is Rlcnards,; Resident Nurse, Pat Little; a fulHbne evening nurse, Ann Damiano; a part-time weekday nurse, Lola 2 Loiterstein; arid four other part- !!! time nurses who rotate on j , weekends. i lt '';f· il ·{ The doctors rotate sick call (9 a.m.-11 a.m. weekdays) on a weekly basis this year rather than on a daily basis as in the past. Ms. Richards explained that this ,js much more con- venient as it allows students to receive treatment from the. doctor that has diagnosed their problem. It also a:llows the doctors the opportunity to Head Nurse atid Director of Health ServiCes., Oori$ ~ichards and' Registered Nurse Lola Loitersteih. · follow up chronic problems and make mme diagnosis. ....._ The infirmary i~ established to handle acute minor illnesses and some chronic medical problems. Some of the other services they provide include an allergy clinic on Thursday afternoons from 12:3&-2 p.m. It provides follow up treatment · for allergies only after they have been diagnosed by the student's own allergist. In addition the infirmary also runs a gynecological clinic on Wednesdays from one to three. This' clinic deals with minor gynecological problems and some minor contraceptive counseling. Birth control devices are not distributed by the infirmary and patients seeking such treatment are referred . to the Planned Parenthood Center of Schenectady. Ms. Doris Richards. has done a great deal of work for the improvement of the campus infirmary since her arrival in September. It has been her efforts that have arranged for doctors to be here on a weekly basis, jncreased the number of kinds of problems that can be handled on campus and added the adv~tages of the clinics. In addition to her past efforts, Ms. Richards has scheduled a program for February 5 that will allow the entire infirmary staff to learn how to detect breast cancer and become Certified Cancer Society Instructors. This will not only allow them to detect the problem, but also to be able to teach the concerned students how to detect it themselves. · Many students may have also - noticed that the infirmary how offers a good selection of over- the-counter drugs to help relieve the symptoms of a very common cold. This alleviates a g-reat deal of the hassle involved in the .regular checkups and allows the doctors more time to spend on the 'more serl.oU$ medical problems. If these medicines don't seem to be solving the problem then you may receive stronger, prescription, drugs from the infirmary upon coosultalion with the doctor. · Another, very necessary ·improvement m,ade by Ms. Richards, was· the establish- men~ of better communications with Eliis Hospital, .Schenec- tady (with which the college is --affiliated, although students may have their choJce of hospitals). These imptt:tved relations allow the_ college to remain aware of the students' situation and provi,de · better follow-up treatment to those students. · · What is student reactian to the infirmary ln light . of the services it presently offers? Major criticism of the in- . firmary stemmed from student reaction to the two clinics now in operation in the infirmary. These clinics rendering care to chronic allergy patients as well as offering gynecological services to Union co-eds, are in operation two days per week. Many of those asked. stated that .they _believed that the timing ot these clinics, as welLas the availability of physicians was Q{ten inconvienent to the scheduling of most students. It is as one ·student stated, \The .. ,doctor is there ifrom nine to eleven, If I want to see him I usually have- to miss class.\ - In addition anotllet\ student noted that due to this scheduling she ofte~ missed her treat- ments. She continued by statip.g. that ''q1issing a treatment of this type couldbecrucial to the care of .a chronic problem.'' When asked to comment on the gynecologicai clinic :rnapy co..eds admitted knowing)ittle about the ser.:vices it offered. Among_ users surveyed most found it to ba of a satisfactory nature. ,- Long terril stay in the in- firmary was termed \good ... with many students noting tpat at these times the staff was especially .Personable. ·.As for changes tbey· fores&w ·ori the toad to improvement of the infirmary students pointed to a re-ex.amination of current scheduling hours for doctors in orderto make the pxocess m{)re effiCient for the students. ln Speaking witb D~ris Richards, she conunented that she felt . it was ~'inlp-Qrtant ~to meet the students and to establish a relati()ns~p wit~tthe college comm11n1ty, DOlth students and staff.\ She en- courages everyone to stop and speak to her about their ideas and experiences-with the :\11- firmary, even if tbey are ~,.. favorable. She said, ''I reali~e that we have several problems,_ such as the slight language difficulties, but we cu:e doiiig ' our best to alleviate thetn,'' ·. The infirmary may still not be perfect, .but .there are mariy indications that Doris Richards is working in our favor and we can be assuredtosee even more improvements from her in the near future. Open To Suggestioris Reed Whitmore, Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar. Each year, the Lectures, Concerts and Films Committee sponsors o~ co-sp<msors a- variety of events on campus. Right now, the committee is soliciting suggestions for events Kistiakowski and Melvin Calvin, a poetry reauing and general visit by poet Allen Ginsberg, and a performance by the Bread and Puppet Theater. 370-6689, D.ave Lyon, 382..S582, and Prof. Charles Steckler, Sc'holar To Visit Reed Whittemore, Phi Beta Kappa visiting scholar, will be visiting here next Monday and Tuesday. His lecture schedule includes the following: On Monday, Jan. 22- 2:30D4 p.m.: Lecture and discussion on ~-\The Develop- ment of, Modernism\· with special\ attention ' to the relationship of Pound and Williams. Classes in attendance will include \American Literature from the Civil War to World War I,\ \American Literature Seminar on Modernism,\ \The Modern American Novel,\ .and \Advanced Creative Writing.\ The event will take place in Strauss Lounge. 8-9 p.m.: Public lecture, \Writers as Intellectuals (and Anti-Intellectuals,\ in Hale House Lower Lounge. On Tt~esday, Jan.· 23- during the winter and spring 9:30-o10:20 a.m.: Class and terms. , lecture on \Henry Adams as a Any requests from individual literary figure and inflnence,\ students, faculty members or in Professor William Murphy's departments tor funds for guest course, \Autobiography in lecturers, musical event~, in- room 115 of the Humanities dividual films or film series will building. , be considered. In general, 3-4:40 p.m.: Poetry teading events sponsored or co- with introductory comments on sponsored by the conunittee are c9ntemporary poetics and Mr. expectedto be open to the entire Whittemore's own focuses and campus community and most interests as a poet. Cla$ses in events concern topics of general attendance ~ will inClude, intereSt. \Advance Creative Wri,ting\ In recent years, programs ~nd \American Literature sponsored by the committee Seminar on Modernism.'• The have included a recital by a. reading will be in Strauss counter tenor; art appearance Lounge~ bY documentary film•maker Mr. Whittemore has been a George Stoney and the showing. professor of ·English at the of some of his wotk, a dramatic University of Maryland since ~ 1 performance by <1:. Bri.tisb ~c- 1968. He was consultllilt in tress, called \An ·Evenmg wtth poetry at the .Library of Mrs. Hester Thrale\ lectures Congress in 1964..00 and 1969-74. by scientists George I Conunittee members include students Tom Peterson, phone: , committee chairman. Those With ideas. should' feel free to contact any . _ committee member; or to submit ideas to the public relatioliS office in Lamont House. - •The BIG· EVENT~·­ Wlnter Carnival Dinner Dance Saturday, February 10 7~30 .. 1 :00 a.m. R·amada ~'no Ballroom. $S.OOperper$on .. include$: Dinneri Dancing:·to the sounds of \'Synod\ First Dri'nk Free Compliments of the Social Committee Tickets available soon - watch for detai I~ 1 ] 1 s ( s s

- to eat- of the .on in- 'to to en-. and ijll,. })e we t}1e e to to in OONCORDfE.NSlS, JanWJ,Ty 18, 19\19 Music From Manzanera by PURE BOB lJLAKE in riame, but also in style as the albwn is far more upbeat than Phil Manzanera is the .former any of his previous, solo efforts. lead guitar,ist of Quiet Sun and •%;Scope\ seems a very fitting Roxy Music. Wtih Roxy Music, title as the music combines a Manzanera established himself kaleidoscope of musical styles as an accomplished and high from latin, rock, jazz, and -powered guitarist ranking avant·guarde influences. among the very ~est of the rock Although some pieces of this genre. When Manza:nera hybrid music are more sue- released his first solo album cessful than others, all are ~'Diamond Head'' shortly thoroughly provocative, with before Roxy Music's breakup, the title track and ''Hot Spot'' quite a surprise was in store for being outstanding. his followers. Instead of high There are twe.,elements that I powered virtuoso guitar playfug feel detract ftorn the album, there was tasteful, laid back First .are the sci~fi lyrics Which songs and instrumental& not only are dl!llisy and stupid, combining a variety of musical but simply don't go with, and numbers ()n the albwn which take.on amechanical quality. A similar oecurance can be seen on Bo~ie's \Stage\ albwn, where without Eno playing,. the music takes on an inhwnan quality. i All in all,. ''K.Scope\ is a. fine 11. and intriguing al-bum. The : album takes c-hances, a;nd ~ · sometirnes they work, and ~ sometimes they don't. If you're :~> looking for something different j in your rnwic collection, butnot § radically S(),.\K-'Scope'' may be 0 worth cbecking out. i Page i ulture styles. This was to become his detract fromthe music. Second style that he further explored is the notable absenc.e of Brian Phil Man.zanera - rock guitarist Fiction: with80J, his post-Roxy band. He Eno, the avant~garde musician proved himself to be as com• whos~ gift for adding tone and petimt an.<l innovative a com- ' colour for whomever he has poser as be was a guitarist. worked with, .(most .notably His new release, ''K,.Scope'', Bowie and the Talking Headsh has dropped the group concept has~ - produced _ noteworthy' of80l,.andhasreturnedtoa solo results. This is the first solo format .sln:lplysaying tbe album albuin Manzanera has ever Man Of The . Fish ii:fby ''Manzanera:\· ''K..Scope\ done without Eno. His absence breaks away from 801 not only can be felt most on the. softer byFREDHEAD that she wanted to go home. r..,....,..N..O\ I -Qk. § 0~ \Phooey .. er, of course dear. To llis parents and friends Let me .get my pool cover.\ All in trout fishing. Only Sharon during the car ride home, Paul knew of his grandiose scheme. could think of nothing but the ~ I § § , I.-- § § § I § -I §. i I Without Candor what are the minutes flashing thr()ugh tomorrow filled with aspiration the urge to attain the desire for ominence to be superior to be maneu-vering full of misconception •.. and whim all without restraint but without candor ,all is deception ..• a:nd pretense everything seems trivial absurdity is in control Insigb.t snowy Patll first met Sharon througli girlof sardines. Sadly, he forgot his the11, wife Meredith, a her the next day and would not woman -who could h;:~ve been seee her again for some time. brilliant if not for the time she Four years later, Paul was stx spent in the bathroom. It was at months divorced and an § a Halloween party, and Paul emotional wreck. At lunch one R naturally took a liking , to day, while eating sardines, he § -Sharon, whowas costumed as a was struck by a flash of § can of sardines. remembrance. The salt water S \Wondedu1 idea for a- sweet image of Sharon popped § 8 . ~Ost\lll1e. :I thought my idea was ·into his mind. S good, but yours is great!\ ·PaUl Two days later they were ·,s bad come as a scale model of married and honeymooned on g Lake Superior. Fire Island, where Paul's boat K \Thank y()u. And I like your was docked. ~ c::oastline ne.ar Detroit. It's very Their marriage was a happy o realistic.~' \'. one for the early years of the § '\Why thank you. I spent a lot marriage; but complicati()Ils ~ «Jftime ontllat area.\Paul knew arose once it reached double 8 lle had ~ncouritered someone figures. Paul no longer showed I ~pecial. :But, at that moment, interest in his job at the Turtle ~ Meredith interrupted, com- Wax factory, and his trout ·1 f~:i~~;r()!b~~~~~~~;gk~~~ ~~e:~~ :::o~i~~m~fh~~~~~ I passing day. '.'But don't you see, I can talk to these fish! We converse as if we were neighbors. You should get to know them, they're really not such bad guys.\ \You're. nuts, Paul. That inkling of madcap genius wh'ich I saw in you twenty years ago llas developed into boring, purposeless monomania. You can't talk to those fish. They're not even alive. n \Thatdoesn't matter, in fact, dead fish are better subjects than live ones. Dead fish listen to what you're saying - live one's don't pay attention and swim away.\ She left on the next train out of town. +++++ What will happen to Paul? Weren't there some ·opening paragraphs deleted from this story? Read the next issue and if I get around to it I'll think of some answers. I s Bl~Je __gray flecks ' ' Swilniiiing on a sea of foam liiding many things I looked into my eyes Blue gray reflecticons Pale· seekers of the dawn As morning greets me PI i mpton Ground9d I see niore, but reveal less. by JiM DAVIS ACB George Plimpton played NFL football. He pitched against a Please subtnit all poems for .Fine Lines to .Box 1388, Jan De ' line-up of major league all- 8 Dek_ a, Fine Line.s Editor._(· Poems can by anonymous if you stars. He appeared on the 8 want.) , Jlrofessiollal golf tour. ---· ~~~~ACOOCiC<IiC<IIOC.CC:.OC:OC~::JOI:lOI:>O:Oc;d - But even be· coUldn'rprevent Blue Grass Band an \act of God,\ and when tile plane he w.as booked Qn from Los Angeles to - ChiCago last 'Wednesday developed engine .trouble, lle had to cancel his selteduled appearance at l'demorial Chapel. Barring another such freak occurance, though, the man · known as a \professional amateur', w.ill appear here on Tuesday, Jan. 30. \Of course, we weren't too pleased when he cancelle~ ont l.ast week,\ said Vic Gittlf'!nan,. _a_ssistant chairman of the Speakers Forum. \But we decided Mo()nday that we'd schedule llim for Jan .. 30.'' Vic, a junior, said that Plimpton '~had indicated he didn't want to be here last ~ednesd;ay even before he eancelled.. oat.'' Pli.Inpton 1 the Monday. before tile speech was scheduled; Jan &', had contacted Speaker Forum Chairman Andy Sandler -t() ten him ,that he was work.ing ()n a Iil()til}ll picture in Los Angeles alld couldn't appear on the date he was scheduled, but that he was willing to come to Union on another, later date. \We threatened to sue him if he didn't come,\ Vic recalled. \That made him change his mind.\ · However, on Wednesday morning Plimpton called again to report that the flight he was 'Scheduled to take had en- countered engine .problems and that if would be impossible for him to deliver a speech here that ·night. \The excuse was legitimate,\ Vic said. \We called the airline and they verified it.\ -Under a clause of the contract he had signed, Plimpton could not be prosecuted if such an \act of God'' prohibited him from appearing. So the speech organizer$ had no choice b\lt to hastily post signs and make announcements informing the College and local communities of the cancellation. \A lot of people had . ex- pressed interest in hearing Plimpton,\ Andy Sandler said. \We're pleased that he wiil be here Jan. 30/' Likt> most speakers who appear here, Plimpton has signed a contract some two months prior to his scheduled appearance. ''That's why we were angry when he tried to cancel because the movie he was working on was rwming longer than he expected. He had made a prior committment to us.\ Two other speakers are scheduled to visit the campus this term. On Feb. 14, Alan Hyneck, a noted authority on unidentified flying objects, will present a mUlti-media study of U.F.O.'s. Technical director ofthe award~ winning science·fiction film \Close Encounters of the Third Kind,\ Dr. Hyneck was recently appointed the United Nations committee on U.F.O.'s. Two weeks later, on Feb. 28, \Saturday Night Live\ producer Alan Zweidel will visit Memorial Chapel. According to Andy, he'll be showing out-takes from his show that \should be pretty interesting.\ Because of the high demano for speakers that requires them to be booked months in ad- vance, the Speakers Forum 1s already considering who to invite for tht: spring term. \We've got a gooo chance to get David Frost,\ Andy said, adding that his committee is pursuing Henry Kissenger and Arthur Schlessinger.

r Page 8 OONCORDIENSISJ January 18, 19\19 L !..:~ c assuJ.ebs BULLETIN BOARD Financial Aid Applications-- . Applications for all forms of · financial aid are now available at the Office of Student Aid, Old Gym Hall. Students desiring renewal of aid as well as new applicants MUST submit ap- plications. For the 1979-80 academic . year, there\is only one form-the . Financial Aid Form (FAF). In • addition to fulfilling the college requirements for financial aid consideration, this form can · also be used to file for the Basic Educational Opportunity Grant. . (BEOG) program by checking· item No. 83. The F AF must be , filed with the College • Scholarship Service no later · than March 1, 1979, and the Master Application must be returned to the Student Aid · Office by the same date. IMPORTANT! ! ! ! ! ! -AU on- campus persons needing a room change for Spring Tetrn must negotiate with the Housing .. Office prior to 4:00 .P.M. on · March 2nd, 1979. COURSE-DROP DEADLINE ANNOUNCED-·The Dean of · . Faculty's office reminds all students that the last day to withdraw from a course this term Without penalty will be at the end of the sixth week of classes-Tuesday, February 6, 1979. After that date, a dropped course will result in a grade of \F\, College regulations · regarding withdrawal from a course are stated on page~ 58-59 of the Academic Register. SENIORS--More Pictures have arrived--Please check with Lorrain Marra in Student · Activities. Union l'erms Abroad is of- countries .to spend the summer helpi-ng rural village com- munities, Projects involve: art, oral history, and archaeology: ethnom:usicology: agricultural' development: community development: tutoring: clinical medlcal work: health education; media development: and construction of clinics, schools., and community facilities. This extraordinary ex- perience provides a brief<but intense imtnersion in traditional and modern Africaa life and pushes individuals tore- consider basic attitues, stan- dards, and beliefs in relation to people with contrasting values and beliefs. Most volunteers arrange to receive academic credit for their summer ex- perience, and many find that they are helped into professional careers in inter- national relations, higher education,, and business. · Persons interest~d in par- tiC-ipating in Crossroads' Summer work-travel-study program must apply im- mediately. Contact: Crossroads Africa, Inc., 150-Sth Ave., New York, New York 10011 (phone: 212-242-8550) ; or the lo.cal Cfossroa~s contact person. Job opiJortunities in Europe this summer , . . Work this summer in the forests of Ger- many' . on canst ruction in Austria, on farms in Germany, Sweden arid Denmark, · in Industries in France and Germany, in hotels in Swit- zerland. Well there are these jobs available as well as jobs in Ireland, England, France, Italy, and Holland are open by the consent of the governments of these countries to American university students coming to Europe the next summer. people in the Hamilton Hill area of Schenectady. We are ve~y much aware of the efforts and the generosity in dollars as wen as food supplied by Placement, Administration, Health Ser• vices and Dean Kellett's Office. THANKS TO EVERYONE! ! ! ! ! ! The Residence Life Staff (R.A.'s and H.R.A.'s) would like to announce their ·activities for the Winter Term. Each residence han staff has put together a program of .events designed to brighten those long gray winter days of Schenec- tady. The events were planned for the residents of each building but all are encouraged to· attend. If you have an idea and would like to see it spon- sored by your residence hall, see your R.A.'s: FO:X Faculty Wine and Cheese Donkey Basketball Game Valentine Day Party Winter Carnival . · Sou:th College · Make your own Sundaes South . College-Russell Sage Mixer North-South Colleges Civil War .Reunion. 1 Planned Parenthood Marino Comedy Act from Marino's Pizza All term long...South College Stock Exchange; Broker-Greg Sobocinski - ·. West College West College Mystery Activity ' Constance Ward Art Show~in West College Library Planned Parenthood Mardi Gras Party Davidson Davidson goes to the Rafters Dance Party-Old Chapel Winter Weekend-Hot Chocolate and Snow. Sculpture Davidson Cabaret . fering a swnmer .. term, The Study of Socialized Medicine in Three Countries (England, Sweden, and Poland). The purpose of this program is to afford the student an op- portunity to get into real living contact with the people and customs of Europe. In return for his or her w.ork, the student will :receive his or her room and board, plus a wage. North Coliege l · 1 Schenectady Rape Crisis · Applications are now available and are now being accepted for the 1979 summer program. Center-8pe_akers International Dinner St. Valentine's Day Party Pizza and Spiked Snowcone Party · Schenectady Museum Speaker. For information and ap- plication forms, please see Professor Baker, Professor Hendricks, or inquire at the Terms Abroad office, in Humanities 211. Please write for further in- formation and application forms to: American-European Student-service, Box 70, FL 9493 Mauren, Liechtenstein (Europe). ·,·------ CAMPUS.CALENDAR SUMMER WORK-STUDY IN AFRICA-During the past 21 years, Operation Crossroads Africa,. Inc., a non-profit organization.. focusing on International Development and Educational- Exchange, has sent more than 5000 volunteers· (students, professionals, and other) to 34 english-speaking and french~speaking African The annual Thanksgiving food appeal was a genuine success this year. Father Sch- weigardt and Sister Joyce would especially like to express their thanks to Mrs. Lorraine Marra, the frat houses, Delta Gamma, Potter; Smith, Rich· mond, North and all the \ anonymous donors whose ef- forts made Thanksgiving feastable for a good number of Pre-recruiting Orientation session with GOULDS PUMPS TONIGHTat8:00 PM in Strauss Lounge. AQyone who has already interviewed with Goulds or will be doing so . ·on Friday should come. Hear what Goulds really does (not only do they make pumps . .. . ) , . and what you can do for them. WINE and CHEESE will be .~erved, and a short slide show Union College Al.umni Directory- A new Union· College Alumni and by class. The alphabetic member 'of the college com- Directory will be published in section will also contain certain rnunity wishes to order one or 1979, the first since 1973. The college related, .personal and more copies for personal use at directory will be produced business .information. the pre-publication prlce ·-of utilizing high quality computer A listing of all full tinie un- $8.00 per copy, please complete typesetting. It will be in an dergraduates together with the order form below and retlll'n attractive·6 inch x 9 inch format home addresses will also be it together WitH your check to and, in addition to an in- included in the directory. the Alumni Office in t..amont troduction containing important Each administrative office House. For orders received and useful information about and each academic department after March 1, 1979, the price the college, alumni will be listed will be given one copy of the will be $12.00. Delivery m.ay be alphabetically, geographically Alumni Directory. }f any expected in mid 1979. r---------·_..__ .... ___ .... ________ ...__. __ . ___ ~ ___ ..... _________ . __ , __ , TO: I would liketo order -1979 1 Alumni Office Lamont House Union College Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 Union College Alumni Direc- I tories. I Enclosed is my check for I $~payable t.o Union I C()llege. · I I. Name----------------~------------------------------------- i I I I Ad~ess __________ ~------------------------~~--------~ -------------------------~--------------------~ will be shown to better inform you about Goulds Pumps. That's toRight (Thursday, January 18) at 8:00 PM .in Strauss Lounge.·see you there. FOX--WEBSTER PRESENT- S...Student-Faculty Wine and Cheese Par-ty on Thursday, January 18 at Fox Lounge at 4:30. On FridaY Evening January 19 and Saturday January20,·the Union College curling Club will host the first Unjon College In:vita~io~al BonspeU at Achilles Rink. Teams from Union, Schenectady Curling Club,. and Albany Curl'ing CI:ub wUI compete in three events, the overall winner to receive the coveted \Milano Pin.\ ·COFFEEHOUSE AUDITI~ ·. ONS!! l COFFEEHOUSE. • AUDITIONS!!! . That's right.- want to perform af the Union College Coffeehouse? Well, he~e's your chance. On Wed-· . ne'sday, January 24 starting at· 7:30PM we will be holding open · auditions for any students who would like to perfoliil at Co£~ · · feehouse. There will be a : special Valentine's Day ·Cof- • · feehouse on February f6 wiilb · student musicians, and another one sometime during Spring · · Term. Interested? Then sign up · ·• for a time slot on the sheet in · · Mrs. Marra's office in Student . Activities. THIS IS YOUR CHANCE!!! 'HELP OFFERED The Curling ClUb is open to all members of the college/ com- murrity .. Sheets .of ice are available da'ily from 3:30 until . 5:00, with top-notch instructors at hand .for beginners (.nothing is more rnemorable...,t}lan the First time!). Intramural ENGtiSH TUTORING.: Off campus at instructor's home.·· ' Help given ln generating; organizing, and writing ideas into _ ~oherent, cr~ative p~per.s. Spectal remedral work m · League competition gets under way every ¥onday and Wed- nesday night from 7:30 to 9:00. ''Slide on 'd(;)wn\ to one of the most modern curling facilities in the nation. Give it a whirl- curl! CHINESE NEW . YEAR CULTURAL FESTIVAL to ,be held on Jan. 20, 1979, Saturday at 1 :30-10:()0 at Hale House Lounges. There will be Movie- Art Exhibition-Cooking Demo- Kung Fu Demo-Dinner.:Sake. The cost will be $4.00 per person in advance from Student Activities and $8.00 per couple, $5.00 at the door. ALL CAMPUS PARTY!!! grammar, spelling, and · vocabulary available dependent .on student's needs. Call for · appointment; Mrs. Harris: 346- 4874. HELP WANTED HAll person$ ha-ving ex:- perien<;!e with the International · Simulation (INS} are invited to help When Diplomacy Fails tim· , this year's simulation for the political science. department. If Interested, please call Dave Dunham at 382..5497.\ PERSONALS Hey, Dave--br.e'ak a leg! (yeah Rubir), I m~n you!) ' Dave-Went skiing, huh? Baum-Nice pixs-Now can I have dinner? Gull. .Attention un\ton-Five months til summer and weather in the 80s. PARTY-317112 Seward Place.:.. ,sat. night. _Be there., Aloha l! 317%. Fletcher-unofficially! Gqll .. Diane-Ice cream hit the spot but it didn't go deep in the throat (get it, Wolf? ) . CARNEGIE OPEN HOUSE!!! Tuesday, January 23 from 4:00 until the hockey game against PlattSburgh there will be BEER, MUNCHIES, EN- TERTAINMENT, and FUN in the College Center (that's Carneigie Hall). Come and see what your College Center is all about-did--you know that there are two flo.ors above the mailroom? Or that the Con- cordiensis office is on the third floor and that WRUG, the Women'S Network and the Creative Music Workshop are on the second floor? And there's -· more-come and see for your- ~elf. T_b~ Tuesday afternoon, January 23 from 4:00pm until , , -·Party before the game, and sJe your College Center and -what it has in store for you. J .S.-1 want your hats and car, , then maybe I'll be a less boring person. presents: JIM MASTERSON - 1-sf Act BOB WOLPER~ STE\IE MARKS~2nd Act Populat • rack music M.C. Dan Lacoff · 2 Shows at 9:00 & 11:00 p.m. Tickets on sale at 8: OO\in Carnegie ,. ' ,_ . - ' MCAT • oitUiJ~ Ual )?,.~j . GRE • OCAT • Ill • SIT Flexible Programs & Hours fl\here J·S allifferencelt! Albany Center ~· •. --H . 163 Delaware Ave. . . wa ·. . N. · • Delmar lVI. · P . hone (Sl 8 ) 439 _ 8146 . . .· .EDUCATIONA·l· CENTER · · · TESt PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 Outside N.Y. State OnJy CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223·1782 Centers In Maior US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lusano, swlttetland I • - • - PIU LC ·Fton Jul HQtre Su1 latel~ LS some Bear Mil safel: stay fool! AI SUPIJ prest Fairi for E stud1 of .th At pi pee what 1 seve! a.nti Follo that fpll(l whic facu: furth plica Th and, 1 of argrn real• to sa salar Irres fecti' vs. recor to gu imp I facul As cuttir outgr facul; loss partil this 1 wlten such quali mern strati Wit faeu11 accoJ stude warn becor term1 even qualil In 1 positi claim minii wiilr main educe: run. I sucn i possil all g mora anyw By ment from might oneol cuttin same quaut Pro propo appr., enlar 1 Hull. recru the s natiot effort a ll geog1 J>licar

ell, · at· pen · a • up · t in UR Off .. in and· dent for 346- ex:- onal·· t'ilri . the If I nths the .. the s: p.ERSONALS ~ LQ'ltl-·n.ice- GRIPPLES. ·From all the guys in West. Jules-ltis been a hard week, HQtree : .. Sue--gotten much sleep lately? · LS~l hear you /hav.e som.ethin.,g·going -with a Russian Bear doWn the hall! ! ! . :Mindy-'9lad you made it safely, but your Bio pets s~Quld · stay in the Lab, you neurotic 1 fool! D&S • Ap:plic~nts •••• Continued from page 1 supported by some data, presented by Prof.- William W. Fairchild, which maintains that for a dtop in class siz~ of 25 students, the averageSAT score of the class goes up 12 points. At this point, Prof. Ludwig piped up in· the first rorirld Df what was to be, for himself and 1 se~eraJ others, an afternoon Df anti-cutbac:k lobbying. Following the )ine of reasoning that student cutbacks are h>llowed by -revenue .losses which, in turn, precipitate faculty cutbacks, Ludwig further · delved into the im- plication& of a student cutback. The foremost assumption, and; perhap,s the Achilles' hefll, of many of Ludwig's arguments, is that ''the only real variable cost you could cut to save on budget would be in salaries of professional staff.'' Irrespective of any \cost ef- fectiveness studies of faculty vs. administration,\ as recommended by Prof. Ullman,_ to guide in these staff cuts, the implication remains that faculty would be lost.·- As ·another· drawback to cutting class size, and as an outgrowth of the assumption of faculty losses, Ludwig fears the loss of · junior professors in particular. For Union to inflict this loss upon itself at a time when \market conditions are such that we can attract qualifie-d. j nnior faclllty members,'' h\e deems as un,. strategic. , Withthe.Joss of faculty, junior faculty in pacticl.Uar, and the accompany·ing rise in the student - faculty ratio, Ludwig warns against Union's becoming involved in what he terms a \vicious cycle of being even less attractive to . higt. quality students.\ · , In reinforcement of Ludwig's positions, Prof. Leslie A. Hull claimed that '\a 5 percent' minimal cutback in .students' .. wiil not serve the purposes Qf maintaining the quality <Jf education at Un:ion in the long- run. Instead, he warns, througll such an action \the worst of all Possible worlds\ is evolved as au goes til, l 'destroy facility morale and not get YOll anywhere.\ By calling for the develop- ment of ''additional markets•• from which an applicant pool might be cultivated, Hull set lit> · one of the major alternatives t() cutting class size While at the same Liine maintaining class quality. · . Prof. I. Filikelstein is a major proponent of the marketing appr()ach,.:to applicant po<Jl enlargement-as. proffered by H1111 .. He suggests, that a recruiting effort be mounted in the. suburbs of major -cities. nattonwide. The yield of this effort, he expects, would be both a lar.ger and a m()re g~ographically diverse ap· Phcant pool • ;. OONOORJJIENSlS, January 18, 1979 Page 9 · clas.sifiel>s l We are considering running a weekly .. crossword puzzle. What do you thin.k? ~CROSS 1 Ser11H e 8 Rich or prominent persons ....--+-f----1·. i4 F,requenter . 15 Stuffed oneself ~+----~-+--4. 17 Classroom need 18 Experiencf!d person 19 B~ig ·bui1dle 20 Knockout substance 22 Suff·i x : body 23 Bas i.e tat in -verb 24 Dfvi~ion of time ~+......-+-+----! 25 lnsec't-egg 26 Ship of old ~-1---1--1 28 Be a.frafd .of 30 Nota- ......_.+--~-! 31 Old men 33 Musi ca'l p :ieces · 35 Exploit f-+---4f-+-.-;j 36 Tennis tem 37 D.iscipliried. and =-+-1--+-+--+-+--i austere 41 Radio. or TV muff \=\\\+---1--+-+--+-+---t· 45 Heap 46 p.;cture game ..,....,+....:.,..a.....~~,.L.:,.-L--'-~ 48 Designate A .job is like jogging. It's good for your health- but it's no fun to go afound in circles. It's much more satisfying if you're getting somewhere; So when you're job hunting, you consider your options carefully, How do you find the path that will satisfy you? Challenge you? Give you a feeling of accomplishment? And rewards? First, if you've already decided on a career, you look for immediate opportunities. , \' Is EDP your specialty? We have one of the most extensive and soph.isticated operations in the industry. '> Engineering? Our professional staff of safety engineers consults with m~jor ,io.dustries from coast to coast. Mathematics? Our business is based on the expertise of actuaries and accountants. Something else? Or und~cided? Read on. Our 2400 different job descriptions include most academic disctplines: business administration, finance, - research, economics, marketing, to name a few. · -variety like this lets you change paths, if· you want to, without breaking your stride. Then you look for a company that cares about your professional growth and offers the to61s and the opportunities to help you r-ealize your potential. · We offer reimbursement for job- related courses, for courses leadihg · to academic degrees or professional designations, and excellent in-house educational facilities. Andyou'll want a company that is not only .growing in volume; but is c:onstantly adapting, itself to new economic and technical situations ... one that not only Jistens to new ideas, ·but. seeks tnem out. - That's The Travelers.-- one of the .largest diversified' financial insti- tutions in the country. 1 In the business world, you'll find a lot of career P.,aths. Some are dead end. Some are closed loops. Choose one that goes somewhere. At The Travelers. 49 Mr. Gershwin YouCohrun onman·g_ Daths ot-;Jhe Travelers. TheyQII'go somewhere. 50 Part .of USAF 12 Rank above kn.ight 51 -· -· science 13 Endurance 52 \Aba -. - Honeymoon\ 16 Relatives on the 54 Aquat.ic manmal mother's side 56 ............ fide 21 Garden tool .57 .C<l,tton cloth 27 Sky-blue 59· ~ati.ng place 28 Gloomy (pqet.) 61 Certain movie 29 \Valley Of the-.\ versions 30 Relay-race item 62 Howl 32 COillllon suffix 63 Most sound 34 Prefix: new 64 Men of Madrid 3 7 House ·bug 38 \The -of Penza nee·\ 39 Tuscaloosa's state DOWN 1 Affair 40 Most tidy 2 Fort or TV western 41 Agencies 3 Edible mollusk . 42 Site of famous 4 Workshop item observatory 5 Mi'neral suffix 43 Come forth 6 With 10-Down, 44 ~ayment returns certainty 47 Computer tenn 7 \Scarlet letter\ 53 \- for All character, et a 1 . Seasons\ 8 Catholic:: devotion 54 Individuals periods 55 Mark with lines 9 Assert 56 Heavy .knife 10 See 6-Down 58 :Past president 11 Minerals. 50 Wine measure [11_ THE TRAVELERS.-- ·.• . :a f; tSfJi:la ; ~ _ u • c twa ~~ a: •4ft,~-£•::•· •:•· :L.•!!rf'\\' ... ___ ..._.__:o~.~K.:·..:D~e:.:..W.:.::.a:.r.:d,:..:D~I.:.::re::.:c:.:..to:.:..r,:...P=:.e=r.:s.:on:,::n.::e::.l .:D.:.ep::.:~::..· .....:..T:.:.:he:..· T.:.r:.:a:.:.ve=l~~:.::rs:.:l:.:.ns::u::.:.r=an.:;:c::e...:C::o:.m:.:!p::a:.:;n=le::s.:..., . .;_1 ..:.T;::o.::,W;::e:...r S:::q:l:u:.::a:.:;re::J'..:.H.::.:a::.;rt:.:.:fo::,:r.:::dJ..:C::::.:!.t, .:::0::::.61w1~5~----J . :: \r .. ~~:~;~: i_ ~~-~~~~'}>.\:-.._ ~~;: ,'t:}(·.:~.·-~·;f.,':\ .. ¢~o:_,; {~·.,. t ; .. )~):.Z.!f:·J;, .. ~~-~...:,(~.~;.-;;~:;_~t:~~ ·~ \~\'?;i.':rt.: .':'£_;;1l1'4i-·:bl.' \ ..

. I Page 10 OONO&RDIE,NSIS, January 18, 1979 Around Compu$ BostQn University. J.an. 27·-St. Lawrence at -Boston University. . Feb. 3--Boston University at Pr-ovidence College•· Feb. 10-Yale at Harvard. Feb. 17--Clarkson at 'Boston College. Feb. 24-Uoiversity of New Hampshire · at BO'ston - University. Ma:cch 3--Dartmouth ·at · Brown University. ' John Carlscm, · radio sports · director; and Bob Gam ere, TV • sports director, will provide the play-by-play and color com,.. · · tnentary. · . 'Between-period guests will include athletic directors and coaches from various schools, personalities attending the games and members of the ECAC. ' Last year's ECAC champion was Boston College. Boston University holds the ·1978 NCAA of th~ Student Forum, present . at a regullit Forwn ~me~ting, vote ·in its favor. Sucfr •a proposal must be submitted to • the forum Agenda Committee and appear on the agenda for ' the forum-meeting at which it is · to be considered and voted, · \1P9ll; . . Rationale for the amendment notes that \it is essential that ·' the forum have the .authority to amend its own by~laws\ and ·: that it is «in tbe interest of ef·: ficiel}t ~dministr.ation. '' A biological mixture of rods, balls and screws. title. · The ·second prQposal, which • will only' be considered if the first proposal · is passed, ·. sponsored by Student Body • President Ste:v.e Richards, • proposes that the five members .ofthe Student Tax Committee= the-. viee-c.hairman of the previous Tax CoiiWlittee, wbo shall chair the committee., the Student Forum secretary, and three other students appointe~' by the Student Corrunittee on' Committees-be ~ppointed no . later than the sixtb w~ek of • · winter term. Metal; Works bySVENPAUL Many Union College students, in the course of their academic pursuits, frequent the Science aad Engineering Building. - These students may,· on their journeys from labs to lectures, notice a· rather unusual · sculpture astheticly poised in front of the Polymer Research Lab. What might this unique conglomeration of rods, balls, and screws be? If you find yourself asking this very question, you obviously neglected to do last night's Biology reading. As any biologist knows, it is nothing more than an enzyme. True, it may be a bit~arger than the · model from which jt was .sculpted (200 million times larger), it should be evident to .anyone who 'knows his p's and q's about Biology that he has come face to face with a monstrous model of a molecule of Riboneuclease-S and a substrate. · The model was constructed by senior Mark Frasier under the supervision of Prof. J;>avid M. Hayes this summer. It cost about $1,500 to build, $1,000 of which came from a faculty . research grant. The rest of the funding was supplied by Pro~~ Hayes foundation grant .. The model includes 500 brass rods, an equal number of con- nections., and an assortment of 1,500 screws. ''Once Mark began the project, he was able to complete - ten amino .acids a d~y\ · Professor Hayes. reported. There are a total of 124 amino 3cids 'in the enzyme. Pre-Law News by BRUCE KAPLAN This fall saw the organization of a new group on campus-the Union College Pre-Law Societ~ The group, organized m~inly by Francis RindeneJlo w1th the help of Professor Board, . and ,currently consists of 18 mem- bers. The purpose of this group is to explore the legal profession. The group has severar im- mediate goals. According to .. Higher Education, and . had · · c.a_· :m . . ·.,. ··p·.. ·a·· s·.e· rs.· ·.·· Fran \Within the next two served as the co:mrriission's first Students wUI eac~ serve •until', · . the end :of the next winter term • · weeks, we are planning to have vice-chairman for the past two our first speaker, who will give years. - a talk on criminal law. We also A Schenectady native and have plans to conduct an LSAT 1934 -Union graduate~ Huntley review course spring term. was named provost a year ago. Profes~or Board has been in- He joined the College in 1947 as strumentalln arranging this.\ dean . of the College and ·: · In addition, the group has plans professor of psychology, _later to conta~ct Union -Alumni who returning to full-time teaching. arecurrentlyworkinginthe law : He has also served as field, wjth the hope of obtaini;Jlg · psycho 1 o gy department summer internships for in~ chairman. terested members. Mrs. Min, a . Provost Huntley is a f~iow of career counselor at the the American Psycholegi:cal · Placeme-rit Office, has agreed to Association and holds mem- help the group with this PTI,!ject. bers~ip . in the - Ea'stern Finalfy~ the Society is P.Ian- Psychological Association, Phi ning to publish a handbo.ok, · Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi, the containing information on past national science honor s6ciety. Union Students, how well they did at Union, and where they are presently studying law. It should give Union students an opportunity to compare and evaluate. their chances based on the performance of past Union · students. · · The other officers of the group are Br11ce Kaplan and ·Pete Alessio. The group has a con- stitution, and is funded by the student tax committee. The next meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, January-23 in Strauss Lounge at 8:00. Anyone . in- terested is. invited to attend. B~ishOp·· ------- --- - -·- - --- --- ' Visits Bishop Howard Hubbard of the Albany Diocese was on campus this past Sunday night. The· bishop co-celebrated a mass with Union's Father Sch- wigert in Strauss Lounge. A capacity crowd was on hand for the service, including Or. and Mrs. Auburn. Bishop Hubbard delivered · a homily on the pex:sonal calling of each ~ dividual to a special role in God's plan for the world. . Mas,!) is held every. Sunday in • Strauss Lounge at 7:30 ,p.m. during the· academic. year. AU are invited to attend. MUsical talent is especially appreciated and refreshments are served following the service. Provost Provost C. William Huntley, has been named to a three-year term on the Middle Stat-es Association of• .Colleges and Schools' Board of Trustees.· For nine years·, _Provost . Huntley was a member of the association's Commission 1 on Union Artists The Union Gallery of Schenectady Museum is now featilring tqe works of four Union artists in an exhibit titled \American Art Work on Paper.\ The show consists of works by Nina Rosenblum LeClerc, Arnold Bittleman, Elbert Weinberg and Charles Steckler. All are members of the Union College arts department faculty. _ The exhibit }lighlights the role of drawing in the work of the four artists who use this as a preparation for works in other mediums as well as an end -in itself. Each artist through his drawings creates a reality which may remain in its rudimentary form or which will · allow the artist to expan_d and - create works in other mediUI'ns through the use of basic drawing. The exhibit will continue at tne- Schenectady Musewn untii · February 11th. Information about the exhibit may be- ob- taiped through calling the Union · College Arts Department at 370~ 6201. Hockey Fan.s. College· hockey fan'S can watch ECAC Division I action every Saturday afternooll- thJ,'ough March on WM;HT-TV, channel 17, AU games get un- derway at 2 p.m. The schedule · includes the following contests: · Jan. 2o-Bostoh \ College at The American Composers' and they will not have a vote in·. •· Forum will begin its. · fourth · the . winter term they are aJ>- · ·· · · season on January- 26th with a pointed. The .assistant dean of concert ~t Memorial ChapeJ stlidenls:-directot of stud·ent · · which will feature composer development will be _a member. Lou Harrison. Mr. Hart'isoB is of the tax committee ex officio known £or his original use of and shall not ·have a vote. ./ percussion: Th~ two other orders of . A second concert scheduled . · business on· the forum:S agenda for March will. feature David · call for discussion of a model . Del Tredici:;-known for a series constitut1on- for student · clUbs .. of pieces based upon· Lewis · and ~organizations apd. an of-· : Carroll'$ stories. : ficial ruling on tln indlvidual As guest composers both Mr. · who graduated last term but· Harrison and. Mr. Del Ttedici wishes- to CQ!Itinue serving on will visit Schenectady to lee•· · the Speakers Forum. ture, guide the musicians iiJ rehearsal and attend a concert devoted entirely to his works. A third concert will be .a showcase for works by thr~e composers ' now or formerly from this region. , Regular subscriptions for the three coneerts.&:e $10 each for adults and $6 for§tudents and a·re available· -by sending a check and a stamped, self· - addressed envelope 'to the American Composers' Forum, 914 St. David's Lane, Schenectady, N.Y. 12309. · Further information is available by calling 393~7229 or 370-6201. -Forum.· -Agenda · Two proposals and- two otll.er Qrders. of business ate on the agenda for the Student Forum's meeting this Thursday at 9 p.m. in Hale House dining room. The first proposal sponsored by the Student Forlllll, calls for . the adoption of an amendment . to the By-Laws of the Student Forum, When at least two~thirds ..... .. , -.. . ' H,ous1n'g Comm. To our fellow students: Over a period of years your student. representatives on .the Housing Copunittee have fought - · hard and long . to have the conditions of the dorms: signif.icantly improved,· Painting of many Of tne ..dorni lounges and hallways has bee11· accomplished· over Wi~ter Re.cess, however we hope this is only. a beginning · of . a major overhaul of the dorm facilities. Tshe Committee has been in· formed that the· Board of Trustees will not allocate the · proposed substantial amount of funds if the newly painted dorms are abused. The ·students on the Housing . C()rnmittee feel it imperative • that the students realize that the . future or the residence halls is .. now up to theJ.Il. We have done our best, now you do yours:- · ' · Your Housing Coiilmittee, Madeline Berger · Mirabella Cusmariu JoeQuinii RoslYn Stone. • T Le trair Athl' Uni< trai.J prov past spar trabl of devE reba aspe s, Un tearr OOUJ seasj host Mert Th gatn foes late YQt~ Rit Norv 1979 thel ~~ 0 ]

. . ' . . ' . t s ~ is s. • ' is. ' OONOORDIENSIS 1 Jan'WJ,ry 18, 1979 Page 11 Training Facility Updated Led by the ·efforts of head trainer Anthony Ortolano and Athletic Director Dick Sakala, Union College's athletic training facilities have im- pro-ved tremendously o:ver the past two year. From the sparkling oew location .of. the training room in the lowel' level of Achilles Rink to the development o{ a solid rehabUitation progra~, every aspect of athletic training at Union seems to be on the rise. Ortolano's first major step towards ·the improvement of . athletic, training at Union was the relocation of the training room from tlie basement ot AlurnniGym into the confines of tile rink. The new location offers considerably more space as the training room now allows for 2 full size (as opposed to 2 half size) taping tables, 4 (as Oi>\ posed to 2) treatment tables and Swimmers Begin ~eason tJnlon College's swirnrnitlg · team, paced by record holder Doug Richardson opens its season next Wednesday, Jan. 17 hosting Hartwick in Foote Memorial Pool. The Dutchmen have a 10- game meet against traditional foes and clo!fe their campaign late in February in the New York State Championships. Richardson, a senior· from Norwalk, Conn., captains the 1979 squad. He holds records in the 1,650, 1;000 and 500 yard free / style events and was a member· of the record setting 800 yard free relay team. of last year. Coach Bob M&gee is enthused this year about the record setting prospects of a freshman Chris Meyer, of Baldwin, N.Y., a back stroker. Another certain point-maker is junior Mark Peronto of · Pittsfield, Mass. who will compete in the butterfly ev.ents. - Last season,. Union defeated. Hartwick 65-47 .. the direct incorporation of the stockroom into the main training room . The new location has also provided Ortolano (who recentlyturned.down an offer to become ... an assistant at the University .of Pittsburgh) with the additional space needed tc. support one of his major in• terests; rehabilitation. Rehabilitation represents the backbone of any athletic training program and under the guidance of · Ortolano and assistant Beth Anne Deustch, rehabilitative programs are mandatory for any injured varsity athlete who wishes treatment during and after the season. The purchase by Ortolano and Sakala of an or· thotron-one of the more ad~ vanced weightlifti.ng devices for strengthening injuries--an exercise bike, and an ankle exerciser have all served to add a previously unknown emphasis on injury rehabilitation at Union College. Friday Night D .·~ .. UNION COLLEGE PUB ~ RESTAURANT .... Happy Hour 9 - 1 0 P·!Jl· 50c Mix.ed Dririks u T c 5CHEN£ClADY,N.'{ 1.2.3o8 · 1-lOLLOW 464 State St. we deliver 5pOrt6 Schenectady 374-1888 Out there in the Atlantic Ocean on a sunshine beach there's going to be an outbreak of revelry this vacation break. And after the sun goes down ... well, you knovithe effect that moonlight has on a celebration. We can only hope· it won't be a full moon. Because from Jan. 13 through April 21 we're opening Nassau and Paradise Island to a wave of American col- lege students. We hav~ reason to believe that wave may reach tidal proportions. Probably because of the price: $269 including air fare and 7 nights hotel. So there it is, young America. We guarantee you the best of dancing on the beach, water sports and a roaring party. Beyond that, you're invited to improvise. And since your talent for good timing is legendary, we've made prepara.- tions for you. We're going to be ready. With ope~ arms. r---------------, I • 501 Madison Avenue I f~)I~G NewVmk NY 10022 I I ..- l212i355-4705 I . · . tollfree(800)223-0694 I I INrER COLLEGIATE HOLIDAYS INC. 1 I $269 $319 I I ::..:: Jan. 13-Jan. 20 =:! Mar. 17-Mar. 24 I I :~ Jan. 20-Jan. 27 o Mar. 24-Mar. 31 I c Jan. 27-Feb. 3 Li Mar. 31-Apr. 7 I 0 Mar. 3-Mar. 10 0 Apr. 7-Apr. 14 I I 0 Mar. 10-Mar. 17 0 Apr. 14-Apr. 21 I I o Alright! Sounds good! I've checked the week I I want to party and enclosed my $50 deposit. I o Sounds good but I'd like to hear more. Send me I I your brochure. I I Name -·------------ I I Address_. I I City_·_. State~ ___ Zip ___ I I. Telephone _____ ~. -·- I ~~--------------~ NASSAU&PARADISE ISLAND. BAHAMAS COLLEGE WEEK. r . . ' /

.Ji.' Page 12 OONCORDIENSlS, Janiutry :t8, 1979 5port5 Dutchmen Skaters ·Drop Two by BILL UNDERWOOD This past week the young Union college hockey team suffered two setbacks, one heartbreaking 5-4 home loss to the University of Buffalo last Wednesday and a tough 8-4 loss on Saturday ~t Oswego. scoring on the rebound·of a shot by Jim Josephson: Later that period, Buffalo regained a one- goal lead on the power•play forcing the Dutchmen to come from behind again. Five minutes into the third period, freshman Briall Shea·seemed to have scored .off a ,pass from O'Connell. However, the referee disallowed the goal .ruling that Shea had violated the crease in. scoring· \it. Buffalo then proceeded to score again at 9:57 later at 18:29 o•uonnell blasted a shot past Kaminska to tie the game. However, at 19:5l, after Union put heavy pressure in the offensive zone, Buffalo head- manned the puck to a mid~ice cherry-:pieker wh() .proceeded to beat Dave Josephson on a breakaway. Josephson had played ao . excellent game rejecting 29 Buffalo shots, many of which w~re of an ex-cellent- variety, . I The loss to Buffalo w:as a great disappointment both to the team and to its fans. The Dutchmen put together one of their best efforts of the '.78-79 season. Falling behind to the tune of 2-0 after one period, the Union six lived up to their \never say die\ reputation by tying the game on goals by co- captain Mike O'Connell and the team's leading scorer Mark Haley. O'Connell, who played an excellent game, carried the puck in on goalie Bill Kaminska and scored the first tally at 2:01 of the second period. Haley followed up at the 7:59 mark by ·· restoring their two-,goallead. At 12:23, Haley closed the margin with his second goal-of the night on a set-up by sophomore Billy Mason. Just a little over a minute. later, Haley was awarded a penalty shot, a very rare call, after he had broken past the Buffalo defense and was tripped on an obvious call. Buffalo goalie Kaminska made a sensational acrobatic save to thwart the effort. Four minutes On Saturday the Dutchmen had their ne:xt .gam~ .in snowy Oswego. The home team got off to a quick start by Scoring five straight goals on freshman goalie Mike Merlo and holding that lead until 19:31 of the second periodwhen Mark Haley stuffed in a loose puck to make it 5-1 after two periods. Oswego scored again eady in the final period before Union answered with a goal as Bob Knibb fired the reboUnd of . a Dean Mathewson shot past the Oswego goalie at 7:43. Oswego scored two more goals as fresh- man winger Rick Pratt capped of.f a sensational four-goal night. Freshman Brian Shea and sophomore Billy Mason each scored a goal later on in the third period as Union put on a strong finish to make the final score 8-4. Co-captain Mike O'Connell Cagers Go s~s; .Look To Col~ate After meeting three Division II teams in its first ten basketball · games, Union College plays the first of two Division I opponents Wed- nesday when the Dutchment meet Colgate in Hamilton. Coach Bill Scanlon's team is on a two-game winning streak, which has brought its record to 5-5. The latest victory was a 76- 55 triumph over Kings Point. In that game, Greg Lafayette, Cornell, Penn St., LSU., Tulane and Yale. Leading the team in scoring is Dave Hargett, a six~foot guard who has a 21.3 average. Second high is Mike Ferrara, a sophomore forward, with a 17 point average. Doug Harley, 6-6 forward is the top rebounder with 8 per game. · Union returns to Memorial Field House on Saturday to meet Plattsburgh State. · --Union College's hockey team hopes to bounce back into the win column Wednesday, when it hosts Western Division II foe, Westfield State at Achilles Rink. Sophomore Mark Haley is pacing the Dutchmen in s.coring as they enter the second half of their schedule, with ten goals and ten assists, both team highs. Haley has scored five goals in the last three games. Sophmore Jim Josephson, has · upped. his assist total to ten, with four in the last three Jan. 17 Basketball: Jan. 17 vs. Colgate; 20th at Plattsburgh. H~ckey: Jan. 17 at Westfield · State; 2oth vs. Potsdam. Swimming: Jan. 17 at Hart- wick; 2oth vs. Hobart. Wrestling: Jan. 17 at Cor- games. Coupled with-four goals~::. Josephson has .14 points. Westfield. is in eighth place inc· . tn e division standings,. with a 4-'5 le~gue record, but the Owls have an overall mark of 9-5: • 24 tland.; 20th Springfield~ vs .. Amherst,· Track: Jan. 17 at Cprnell; 19th at Williams .(vs. M:icl~ · dlebury, Harnilton, Williams). Women's Basketball: Jan. 17 at U1ster County C.C.; 19th vs. St. Rose. Sobocinski, the Dutchmen's second leading scorer, paced the team with a 22 point effort. However, while Sobocinski's scoring is generally expected, Union received strong offensive efforts from sophomore John Krum with 20 points and fresh- men John Jarosak who came off the bench to score 14. Both were career high game totals. lniury Ridden Gra.pplers At 3-3 Bench scoring was especially · important to the Dutclunen in order to pick up the point slack forced on high-scoring Joe Cardnay. The sophomore playmaker from Plattsburgh played with a badly-injured thumb, limiting him to only three shots. But Cardnay was not out of the picture, playing most of the game, assisting on five scores and picking up four steals. Colgate has a 7-7 record as it awaits the Dutchmen. The Raiders have defeated RPI, ~ Rider, Bucknell, Catholic U ~ (twice), Howard and Cornell. If They've lost to Princeton, Junior Rich Romer Cliff Farr.ell, 5-L on his way to victory Unlon College has place three players on the all-star football team, selected by the ECAC for Upstate Ne:w York. Heading the list is the Dut- chmen's standout.running back, Rich Romer of Monsey. The others are offensive tackle, Gordie Single (Hudson Falls} and corner back Ron Plwnb (East Longmeadow, Mass.). All are juniors. Romer has been hhe statistical offensive leader for Union for three .seasons. He has averaged better than 90 yards running per game and has chalked up more than 100 yards in ten of the 23 games in which he has played. Romer went over the 2,000 yard career mark in rushing this fall. His season high, 173 yards rushing, came against W.P.I. Single has been an out• standing !:>locker for the Dut- chmen, openlng up the left side of the line springing the Dut- chment runners for large gains, His fine pass blocking gave quarterback Andy Terranova, the time he needed to put into operation the Dutchmen air attack. Ron Plumb was the mainstay of the garnet defense from his strong side corner back position. He turned many stellar performances this season, including his 13 tackle performance against arch-rival RPI, helping the Dutchment to once again reg11in the coveted wooden shoes which symbolize t}le oldest rivalry in New York State. Plumb has also be.en narned captain for . the up- corning 1979 campaign along with defensive back Carmen Saginario. by MATT VAN BENTHEM It hasn't been easy going for the Union College wrestling team with injuriel:l to starters John Cheluka and Pete Felker, but the team has kept up ana- fought to a respectable three and three record~ Last Thur- sday, the team lost a 22-25 decision to SUNY at Binghamton, a team which is fifth ranked in all of New York State. In a· quadrangular meet last Saturday, the grapplers went down 26-22 to Albany State, lost 31-9 to powerhouse P,otsdam, but then rallied. to an impressive 43-12 win over John Jay College. · Pete Felker, who injured his knee against Binghamton, is expected to be outfor one to tw..Q. weeks. All· others who had to forfeit because of injury are now back in the line up and ready to spirit Union over its upcoming opponents. Union's lineupJs bolstered by the outstanding . .performances of George Redder (5-l), Cliff Farrell (5-l), Captain Josh Salzman (5-1), Matt Van Benthem (6-0); Danny Tan- nenbaum (3-l), and Pete Felker (3.()). The wrestlers next see action against Division II giant Springfield. at Amherst College on Thursday, 7:00 P.M. Jan. 17 vs. Cortland Jan. 20. at Springfield (vs. · Amherst, Springfield) Jan. 25 at Oneonta Jan. 27 vs. Kings Point J~n. 31 at R.P.I. Feb. 5 vs; Colgate F'eb. 13 vs. Norwich F'eb. 16, 17 N.Y.S. Tourney - Tl for 1 wer wee esc begi est a app herE aca1 JCJ of s ther assi1 stud allo1 payE sort: the, libr• dep; pier Opp! gran prog Stud adm is rE inte1 CODlJ Two prog peop BEO l'hes thes stud( Wli lack prog bene Marc: alloc: Suffi< SCh()( Thi 779 s total aid. prox:i be ~ fin an budg1 hasn therE schol: Year. East1 a war~

I ll· ' d-' ;) . 17 s. or rtg :rs !f' --I ~tr ee rr- ·25 at is rk let lrS ny ISe an hn ilis is W_Q. to 1te 1nd its by !es liff ISh an ;m- ter ion mt ~ge vs. J: \' ! , ~ )o ll 0 0 [ ji'ou,Jed at . Unio11 College 1877 ( Vol. 1·08, No·. 11 ;. '· . it' ;- -f' Joseph Maras, Director of Finandal Aid._ ' . . . ·~ . . . ·- . Schenectady,· New York Thursday, Jon. 25~ 1979 Plimpton· To Speak Commenting on George · Plimpton's performance as a member -of the New York .Pbilharino·nic, Director Leonard Bernstein said, \He. did very well for an amateur, but then, that's his profession, i$n't it?\ Indeed, Plimpton, who will deliver a lecture next Tue.sday evening at Memorial Chapel, nas gained considerable notoriety for liis well·pubUcized forays :into highly skilled ac- . tivities that most spectators only fantasiz.e ab()ut par- ticipating in. His, first such endeavor took place in 1959 When he boxed light heavyweight champion Archie Moore, lasting three r()unds in the ring and suffering 011ly torn nasal cartilage. Subsequently, Plimpton lost a tennis match, 6-0, to Pancho Gonzalez and a rubber of bridge to Oswald Jacoby, a champion player. In the late 1950s, Plimpton approached the publisher ()f S)lotts lll!lStrated with an idea for a magazine article that would prove to be one of his most intriguing efforts-: He would pitch. to eight batters. from both the American and National Leagues before a postseason exhibition game at Yank.ee Stadium. -As Plimpton e.xplained- it, \l would pitch not as a hotshot, but as a guy who'.s average, really, a sort of Mr. Everybody, the sort who thinks he's .a fair athlete.\ He wittily recounted his experience in a Sports Illustrated article in April 1961 and, in greater detail, the book Out of My League. · It was well received. Ernest Hemingway, a noted baseball fan, ob~erved,. \Beautifully observed and incredibly con- ceived, this accomtt of a self- imposed ordeal has the chilling quality of a true nightmare. It is the dark side of Walter Mitty.\ lineman in his autobiography, \because he was willing to undergo a full regimen of training without asking for special privileges. He fit right in.\ Prjor to his appearance in intrasquad exhibition game, the climax of his stint with the Lions, Plimpton reportedly tried unsuccessfully to take out insurance ·with Lloyd's of London. When his big chance did come, he lost 29 yards in five plays. • Since an amate.ur should not win a contest with ·a professional, Plimpton once noted, his \defeat\ as a quarteroack was an aesthetic triumph for the purposes of his book Paper Lion about his experiences as a Lion. One reviewer wrote, \Plimpton has written what is probably the most arresting and d~lightful narrative in all of sports literature. !fe captures the sights and sounds of pro football with uncommon fidelity.\ . Aid Plan Announced In 1963, Plimpton engaged in ·probably his most weU lmovm endeavor when he participated in pre-season training camp as a quarterback with the NFL Detroit Lions. Although 4e had practically · no prioJ:\ · football experience, Plintpton gained acceSs to team meetings, training sessions and training camp life. The movie version of Paper Lion appeared in October 1968. Plimpton, wh() had. played several small parts in other movies, briefly considered appearing as himse!f. in the film; \just for a lark.\ But in the eno he took the minor part of the Lions• owner, leaving his role to be played by Alan Aida, by MELISSA CRAGIN The new financial aid forms for the 1979-1980 academic year were put out for students last week. Beginning in March, the CSC in Princeton, N.J. will begin to process tile forms to establish needs for assistance to approximately 804) students here- at Union in the next academic year. ' Joseph 'I'. Maras, the director of student aid, e.xplained that there are three college based or assigned programs. The- work- stud,y program is one which allows .students to be hired and payed by. the -school to do all sorts of jobs such as work for the athletic department, in the library,- or in academic departpu;;nts. The Sup- plementary Educational Opportunity Grant is a direct grant scholarship. The third program is the National Direct Student Loan Fund which is ~dministered by-the college and ~s repayable at three percent Interest after the student completes his or her education. Two other financial aid programs which are granted to people here at Union are the BEOG and TAP programs. These are not administered by the school but go directly to the students. When. asked about Union's lack of a summer work study program which might be beneficjal to students, Mr. Maras said that the $30,000 allocated by the school is only sufficient to carry through the school yeat·. . This past year approximately 779- students were awarded a t~tal of $1,449.,000 in all forms of atd. In the coming year ap-· Prox:imately 22 more people will ~e awarded some type of fmancial assistance;though the budget for the Student Aid office' has not been released. As of yet there are not any new scholarships known for: next Year. In December, however, Eastman-Kodak Co:ffipany awarded Union and three of its students a total of $18,550 next year. That amount is expected to include scholarships to three more students. Presently; almost all oi the aid funding here at Union is the college;s own money; ·only a comparatively small amount is given by the Federal G()vern· ment to .add to Union's aid funds. Most of the aid money now comes from the school's operating expenses·- priJnarily tuition increases. Whenever there is a tuition increase, financial aid funds go up. Endowed funds, which usEd to be the primary SQU1'Ce of financial aid, have droppEd to $450,000. - . . • Mr. Maras feels that students ftorn middle income f<~milies are still being ignored, but that the new federal education bill is going to help ease that situation. The changes are as foll()ws: On Nov. 1, 1978, President Carter signed the Middle Income Stu<lent Assistance Act (PL 95-566). The new legislati()n will not only increase the Basic. Ertucational Opportunity Grant (BEOG) award for current recipients, but expands the program to include students from families whose incomes are between $15,000 and $2ti,OOO and many independent students. Legislation also removes tlie $25,000 income eligibility ceiling on the Guaranteed Studeni Loan Program, thus ensuring tba1 the interest ( 7 percent) will be paid by the federal governnrent ·on all such loans while the stttdent is enroJled in college. In ()!her words, there/'s no ceiling ·on the income leve fot families ap- plying for a Guaranteed Stadent Loan. Ap!}lications fm the GSLP are available at your local_ bank. All changes to the GSLP take effect Nov. 1. The changes to the BEOG program are effective for periods of enrollinent l:leginning ()n or after August 1, 1979. This should all be a great help to quite a few students here at Union. ThiS year's Financial Aid F ()finS. are due March 1. Mr. Maras has asked that - .any student with questions or .problems go to the .st11dent aid office as soon as possible. - \The guys were willing to have him aroun1l,\ recalled Alex Karras, a Lion defensive Continued· on page 4 Admissions Dean SOught by S_TEV&N G. SINGER Upon the retirement of Director of Admissions Jay Shupe at the end of this academic year, a new post of dean of admissions and financial aid will be established for the first tinrte at Union. Shupe, now in his tenth year as Union's director of ad- missions, notified the school of his planned retirement last year. As a result, search for a succesor began. More than 50 applications were received for the position. 1he position was then, however, changed from director to dean. Of the ap- pli-cations received, all but five were discarded as a reslllt of the cnBnge. Also, the position was readvertised for in .the \Chronicle of . Higher Education,''_ the major outlet for such advertisements. By readvertising the post, and · extending the deadline for applications until Feb. 15, Union's Dean of Students, Robert H. Kellett, felt. that a number of possible candidates who \ate currently deans or directors of admissions elsewhere,\ who did not apply for the director's job \migllt apply for the position of dean.\ Along with a new title, Mr. Shupe's successor will bear new responsibilities. One of these added dUties will be to take charge ()f the financial aid program. In this regard the new dean will supercede the already i existing director of financial ·1 . aid.' Also, the new. dean will be a member of the president's cabinet. 1'hi$ ii!J,as Pe~Jn. K~llett stated, ''to allow thf person directly in charge of recruit- ment and financial aid to put his oar in the water.\ That is, he will deal directly with those who make the decisions pertinent to both admissions and financial aid. Because of the added ·responsibilities of the new position, the candidates that will now be considered will have to meet stiffer . requirements than tllJ)se for the old director's job. Dean Kellett noted sub- stantial experience as one of the main criteria. He commented that of those now being considered for the position, ''all but one is presently a dean or director of admissions.\ The one candidate who is not, he added, \has been an associate dean for 14 years.\ Dean Kellett cited a number of other criteria for the position as well. Also hig!l on this list of qualifications are demonstrated understandings of both finan• cial aid and the special problems of a · school, good organizational and marketing abilities, and an understanding · of data processing for the clerical processing of applications. Of those application$ presently being considered, all five candidates meet these prerequisites, causing Dean Kellett to add, ''I am really inrtpressed by the quality of the candidates.\ All of the final candidates for the new position, some of whom come from the Capitol District, and others from as far as the Mid-West, will be interviewed on campus by late February. \At that time,\ explained Dean Kellett,.\open meetings will be held with students, faculty, and administrators,\ to allow for the \maximum input from all levels.\ .• Dean Kellett is hopeful for a final decision to have been reached by the time of the presidential appointment in mid-March, adding that he hopes that the new president will have a hand in the decision. :~qb.~rt H. Kellett, ~n of ~t.u.~ents

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS~ January 25, 1919 Editorial ' A ·Valued Viewpoint The presidential search, because of the importance of discretion 1.n dealing with potential candidates, has, throughout its t;!,P.stence, maintained a low profile on campus. As a matter of necessity. the campus community, excluding those directly involved in the process, has had to rely upon the Judgment and wisdom of those reviewing, screening, and selecting preUminary candtdates. Recent developments tend to indicate, ·however. that the rest ·Of the College community may soon get the opportunity to express their interest in the process. At its last meeting, the campus Search Committee sent the names of six possible candidates to the Selection Committee for further review. Ad- ditional interviews, to be conducted both in New York and on the~ 'home campus\ of each respective can- didate, will aid the Committee to select tnree to four top candidates. These candidates, when chosen, are expected, at 'long last, to visit Union for exposure to the campus constituencies. Although,. according to informed sources, these visits are still a number of weeks away, we must begin to decide to what degree campus input is acceptalde in the search process and to what extent each constituency is ,permitted to in- terject their interests. In a memorandum distributed to faculty and staff members, Provost Huntley recommended that the College should, ''expose the candidates to as many people and constituencies as possible.\ Let us hope that this statement reflects a desire to include, to an adequate degree, ·the e;K- pression of student opinion. We hope that the planning committee considers the importance and value ob· tained by exposing the candidates to the student body and, conversely, the student body to the candidates. A one hour reception, as proposed by'· the memorandum, inv6lving the interaction between students and potential candidates is not, we feel, an adequate opportunity for either the students nor the ·· candidate to fprmulate an accurate r~presentation of the other. We do not seek disproportionate representation either. What we hope, is that the planning committee- wlll weight the importance of student opinion when deciding questions pertaining to ' constituent input. We believe that, without adequate interaction between potential candidates and the student body, the total search process, though seemingly well thought out, and effectively implemented, would in actuality, lack an aspect essential to its very · legitimacy. Correction Concordiensis would like to make the following corrections of copy that appeared in last )Veek' s issue. In the article entitled, \Board Approves :Budget,\ the headline should have read \Board to Approve Budget.\ ·:rn the article, ''Applicants: Quantity or Quality,\ the folloWing corre(!tions Should be noted: Prof. Brltce L .. Reynolds <!l.tllttllf Editors-in-Chief .Associate Editor News Editors Feature Editors Layout Editor' Arts Editor Sports Editors Photo Editors Copy Editor _,.. Finelines was referred to incorrectly as Prof. George D. Reynolds; Prof. Jan K. Ludwig was cited as Prof. Ward Ludwig; and Prof. Samson O.A. Pllman was cited as Prof. David Ullman .. In the same article, the final .. portion was deleted due to a · printing error. We hope that we did nof misrepresent the views of any persons or groups in· volved. We're only human. David Rubin, David Schmertz Matt Nagorsky Jim Davis,.Doug Rosenfeld Donna Ci\eeley Sue Barnhart Terri Moran Steve Monosson Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba Cary Feuerman, Pat Wright Sara Simmons JanDeDeka Melissa Cragin Calendar Staff - Pam Ryan, Debbie Damrell; Sue Marr, Nina Gottlieb, Roberta Moss, Joanne Malin CONCORDIJllNSIS is published every ·Thur$day by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Ball, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; SU8Quehanna Publications Inc., 142 Main Street, Oneonta, New Yor~ 13820 (607-432-6737). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as ~ Third Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 ~ents per copy, $10 a year. delivered anywhere in the· Uni~ed States. Bits And Pieces by STEVE RICHARDS . In 1795 Union's student body was divided into four classes as they are now. The College;s By- Laws read like this: \There .shall be four classes in the College, namely: the first of Languages; the second of History, Belles Lettres; the ~ third of Mathematics; and the ~ fourth of Philosophy.'' These L classes correspond with ~be e Freshman, Sophomore, JuniOr, d . and Senior classes of today. \. Union was one of the pioneers of modern American education. Union was the nation's -1itst liberal arts college to teach engineering. It numbers among its academic contributions the successful introduction of the . elective system, the first curriculum to stress American history and .government, and the first full course of study leading to a degree in science and modern literature. My hat's off to the College\ Center· Committee chaired by Debbe DamrellL They are doing a super job this year, but - considering the people serving on this committee,. this ,fact. comes as no surprise. Union was the first-college to offer an undergraduate degree in science. In 1798 the city council of Schenectady found it necessary to formulate rules in art attempt to protect Union's students'from the evils of the outSide world. \To entice or permit a student to gamble or play billiards\ was punishable by a heavy fine, ''theatrical exhibitions, puppet shows, wire dancing, feats of horsemanship or any such like idle shows of any sort\ were not tolerated. Today they may Want to \protect\ us from Mike's Dogs {with everything) ora late night taco from JB. President Lincoln's Secretary · of State, William H. ·Seward, was a Union alumnus. TI1e Secretary of State for the Confederacy was also a Union alumnus, Robert Toombs~ Franklin D. ·Roosevelt's father was a Union alumnus, as was Winston Churchill's maternal grandfather. The first presidents of Vassar College and Smith College were Union alumni. In 1957 the Chicago Tribune pUblished a famous ranking of the country's top colleges and universities. Union was -ranked the siXth best men's college in tne country. Tbe ranking of the top ten men's,colleges went like this: Haverford, AJpherst, l{enyon, Wesleyan, Hamilton, · Union, Bowdoin, University of the South, Washington and Lee and Williams.· Throughout a good part of the 19th century, Union, together with Yale, Harvard; and Princeton, ranked as the \big four\ in American colleges. In fact, Union was the choice of many over the other three. Union came to reject .university status, however, iii favor of remaining a small college, emphasizing undergraduate education and a \balanced\ liberal arts-engineering program. I understa!ld Senior Kevin Scheuer is a top prospect for the U.S. Olympic track team in 1980. I spotted his name in the New York Times last Sunday, Kevin placed third in the 1,000 yard run last Friday night in the Philacielphia Classic. This meet is big-time and Kevin is among the best. Best of luck to him. an COl wa is, Ig1 to to COl quJ cot ad~ abl ta~ ea< Uni ca1 He: 1 me ma but at' ''a~ PiE sta aut ign one old list get ver at eno trw c -

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, January ~5, 1979 Editorial A Valued Viewpoint The presidential search, because of the importance of discretion in dealing with potential candidates, has, throughout its existence, maintained a low profile on campus. As a matter of necessity, the campus community, excluding those directly involved in the process, has had to rely upon the judgment and wisdom of those reviewing, scre.ening, and selecting preliminary candidates. Recent developments tend to indicate, however, that the rest of the College com·munity may soon get the opportunity to express their interest in the process. At its last meeting, the campus Search Committee sent the names of six possible candidates to the Selection Committee for further review. Ad- ditional interviews, to be conducted both in New York and on the \home campus'' of each respeetive can- didate, will aid the Committee to select three to four top candidates. These candidates, when chosen, are expected, at long last, to visit Union for exposure to the campus constituencies. Although, according to informed sources, these visits are still a number of weeks away, we must begin to decide to what degree campus input is acceptatle in the search process and to what extent each constituency is permitted to in- terject their interests. In a memorandum distributed to faculty and staff members, Provost Huntley recommended that the College should, \expose the candidates to as many people and constituencies as possible.\ Let us hope that this statement reflects a desire to include, to an adequate degree, ·the ex- pression of student opinion. We hope that the planning committee considers the importance and value ob- tained by exposing the candidates to the student body and, conversely, the student body to the candidates. A one hour reception, as proposed by the memorandum, involving the interaction between students and potential candidates is not, we feel, an adequate opportunity for either the students nor the candidate to formulate an accurate representation of the other. We do not seek disproportionate representation either. What we hope, is that the planning committee will weight the importance of student opinion when deciding questions pertaining to constituent input. We believe that, without adequate interaction between potential candidates and the student body, the total search process, though seemingly well thought out, and effectively implemented, would in actuality, lack an aspect essential to its very legitimacy. Correction Concordiensis would like to make the following corrections of copy that appeared in last )Veek's issue. In the article entitled, \Board Approves Budget,\ the headline should have read \Board to Approve Budget.\ -In the artiCle, \Applicants: Quantity or Quality,\ the folloWing corrections should be noted: Prof. Bruce L. Reynolds C!rnntnr Editors-in-Chief .Associate Editor News Editors Feature Editors Layout Editor Arts Editor Sports Editors Photo Editors Copy Editor Finelines was referred to incorrectly as Prof. George D. Reynolds; Prof. Jan K. Ludwig was cited as Prof. Ward Ludwig; and Prof. Samson O.A. Ullman was cited as Prof. David Ulhnan. In the same article, the final portion was deleted due to a printing error. We hope that we did not misrepresent the views of any persons or groups in- volved. We're only hwnan. David Rubin, David Schmertz Matt Nagorsky Jim Davis, Do11g Rosenfeld Donna Creeley, Sue Barnhart Terri Moran Steve Monosson .Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba Cary Feuerman, Pat Wright Sara Simmons JanDeDeka Melissa Cragin · Calendar Staff - Pam Ryan, Debbie Damrell, Sue Marr, Nina Gottlieb, Roberta Moss, Joanne Malin CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publications Inc., 142 Main Street, Oneonta, New York 13820 (607-432-6737). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Third Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, $10 a year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Dear Friend of the Arts, On Saturday, February 3, 1979, a Mardi Gras Ball will oo held for the benefit of the Schenectady Arts Council. It will be in Proctor's Arcade from 9:00 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. Atten- dance is to be limited to 300 persons and reservations are expected to go fast. Reservations are confirmed with a $10.00 donation payable to the Schenectady Arts Council, and should be sent to 243 State Street, Schenectady, NY 12305. For further in- formation you may call the Arts , Council Office at 374-3321. Ef!flosed is your invitation and response ~ patron card. Patrons names win appear in dance program for a minimum ·donation of $5.00. For your convenience please the arcade at the Smith ·~t ... .,. ..... entrance. Tbe State :Str·eet • entrance will be closed. Sincerely yours, Mickey LeGere. -chairman MARDI GRAS BALL Be Bold Dear Union College Men: We are two attractive, vaaious senior women who like some ho~est responses as to why we hav~ been compelled, largely out of own preference, to .... sl:eep \\ ... vu~. Mind you, we don't have personality problems, •ctl•--·- what we understand, this·· symptlMll.isnot,.uniqu.e .. tQ .. ,u.,~; .. it\ is a; malaise Gommon to a.;Jarge portion of th.e sen1Qr .class. . . .. ·.·Personally;, .. we.get·.turne<Lofl~ by guys who· always get .drunk. or stoned, and don't ,have the self-assurance, confidence, or even respect ·to appr{)aeh us when straight. Older men we have met have more self .. esteem, and consequentlyt treat us with the interest and ad- miration that we, as feminine, sensitive, and giving women, feel we deserve. , .• Instead, Union men· don't even have the nerve to ask Union women out in general, much less seek 1 'extra .. curricular\ adventures here Qn campus. The social atm&sphere · here is PfrlFUL, as anyone who has so much as visited another school can attest to .. If this puts your minds at ease any, we are not necessarily looking for heavy, permanent relationships in every sexual encounter we have~. thongb this may'be a f6rlunate ou.tcomecof · ··.some special . ones .. ··But ,~we w<>uld appreciate a little more· attention, the type we have ::had. to seek from men outside the school. After four year8 here . we're . curious as to why you prefer Skidmore girls to us; (rtof necessarily un weekends, about which we are well infurmed of your intentions) . but during the week, when normal~ healthy relationships are usually for- med. Why can ,t most pe{)ple here carry on decent, meaningful conversationst. without the fear of putting their innermost selves on tb.e line? · Pub and Sk.eller dialogue ith f6r ··· tbe ro.ost .part, in(lredibly~ · superficial. How- do y&u ever expect to develop the social Remember:-, winter's- here; gas is going up, and one ...:~ ..... ,. .• Route 50 is going t<> be sno1Wed1 · under, so • . . beat the eold beiu.g bold! Sincerely, .:i~j;: Twogids who think bigbt:y:~of themselves (and you sbo.ttld, tool} Bits And Pieces by STEVE RICHARDS In 1795 Union's student body was divided into four classes as they are now. The College's By- Laws read like this: \There shall be four classes in the College, namely: the first of Languages; the second of History, Belles Lettres; the ~ third of Mathematics; and the ~ fourth of Philosophy.\ These ~ 11. classes correspond with the >- Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, ~ and Senior classes of today. a Union was one of the pioneers of modern American education. Union was the nation's first liberal arts college to teach engineering. It numbers among its academic contributions the successful introduction of the elective system, the first curriculum to stress American history and government, and the first full course of study leading to a degree in science and modern literature. My hat's off to the College Center Committee chaired by Debbe Damrem They are doing a super job this year, but considering the people serving on this committee, this fact comes as no surprise. Union was the first college to offer an undergraduate degree in science. In 1798 the city council of Schenectady found it necessary to formulate rules in an attempt to protect Union's students from the evils of the outside world. \To entice or pennit a student to gamble or play billiards\ was punishable by a heavy fine, \theatrical exhibitions, puppet shows, wire dancing, feats of horsemanship or any such like idle shows of any sort\ were not tolerated. Today they may want to \protect\ us from Mike's Dogs {with everything) or a late night taco from JB. President Lincoln's Secretary of State, William H. Seward was a Union alumnus. Ti.1~ Secretary of State for the Confederacy was also a Union alumnus, Robert Toombs. Franklin D. Roosevelt's father was a Union alumnus, as was Winston Churchill's maternal grandfather. The first presidents of Vassar College and Smith College were Union alumni. In 1957 the Chicago Tribune published a famous ranking of the country's top colleges and universities. Union was -ranked the sixth best men's college in the coi.Ultry, The ranking of the top ten men's colleges went like this: Haverford, Amherst, Kenyon, Wesleyan, Hamilton, Union, Bowdoin, University of the South, Washington and Lee and Willlams. Throughout a good part of the 19th century, Union, together with Yale, Harvard, and Princeton, ranked as the \big four\ in American colleges. In fact, Union was the choice of many over the other three. Union came to reject .university status, however, in favor of remaining a small college emphasizing undergraduat~ education and a \balanced\ liberal arts-engineering program. I understand senior Kevin Scheuer is a top prospect for the U.S. Olympic track team in 1980. I spotted his name in the New York Times last Sunday. Kevin placed third in the 1,000 yard run last Friday night in the Philadelphia Classic. This meet is big-time and Kevin is among the best. Best of luck to him. ·' I i . , l ! f i l l l ·;·?:Hf~i~ ,\¥ft IJ anc con wa: is, . Ign tot to' con qui~ con add abl4 tak1 eac im~ can Her T1 ma~ mal but at a \as pre stat autl ignc OnC4 oldc list€ get ver~ at : en01 true Cc --

the · of and In of ree. of the in the the '\\ < •• :_ . 00?'/09RlJIE_NSIFJ:~ Jan-uary 25J919 Let The Geek ~peak by~TODDA. MILLEit A thin blue t9ngue spat sullenly across the sky, and A.; cloying, purple darkness then-another, and then another, , fell about the · campw;- and in until the eerie calm was shat- . the closeness of the twiJight I tered by thunder. Soon the sky perg~ived, with no ~ndue. was veined wtth lightning, and · surprise, the arrival of ·a the din of the thunder was phalanx of brooding &torm almost unbearable. douds; dark; foreboding stonn ''Enough!\ I Shrieked, clouds. whose\\'\ttnport was so ·amazed; \For God's \Sake I obvious, so orninousJ~ that .I must study for my midterms!'' could only pause before the But the clouds fought £ur.iously, :PQrtals of Fox, and sadly ex- heedless of my impassioned claim: · ·--. cries. · \More lousy weather. More The air smelt .of burnt ozone. rain; more snow; more slushy, From the furtheSt recesses ·of · muddy,. icy weather. Shit.'' AlexanderField to the·darkest~ I strode indoors; forcefully, most perverse corner .of purposefully, not daring to look Webster House, the campus was back upon themeteorological awash with rain; violent, melange which hovered in~ sadistic, slashing rain 'Which sidiously above fair Union's whipped_ across · t.he campus once lush verdure. Union! great with ail the tact and retiring_ alma mater; once a ·college. but grace ·of a dr.ug..cr:azed grizzly. now. . : : I shuddered, quietly, Then~ a strange, wonderful, and then the moment passed. dangerous thing happened. A There would be time to dwell on single, wayward strqke of that point ... there would be lightning struck a large, ·time·.·. . projecting mass of slush which Union Views: lay nestled against the Nott. A lone passerby st()Od aghast as the disrupted slush glowed a dull, ~ethargic red; held his hand to his mouth as thE) slush began slowly to t41ke form, shake its massive, misshapen head,. and Nse to its full stature. ''Slush monster! Slush monster! n he cried crazily, as he spun about,. fell, scurried to his feet, and ran into the Pub. The Slush Monster, feeling somewhat proU<'l ·of itself for -having happened at all, pf;ltted an i~e--encrusted thigh lazily, and then scanned the hori2on. ''Glurgh,'' it said, non- , committally. \Nurk.\ The Slush Monster started moving, its frigid footsies stamping powder:ed snow and ice about its body like frightened pixies avoiding the pond'erous path of some ungainly Behemoth. Full thirty feet tall, and weighing several Page 3 '~- \I tons, it began a slQW, unhurried trek towards North College~ Mary-Lou Purebuteasy did not see the gigantic paw .smash through her lonely window high above the hustle and bustle that was Union College; she did not even scream as the Monster drew her out the window, holding her aloft, poised just beyond the touch of his icicled. jaw. She was too coked out to notice. \Wow. You'.re really tall. You go here?\ - ·· To be continued . . • ReaJ Life Thriller . ' by JIM DA.VIS now mixing with freez-iR.g-rain. slop, determined. And vislbiUty was near zero. \We're going to getthis baby The setting was straight out of the blizzard scene in the movie \Airport.\ About six inches of snow were ~lready on the ground. To make matters worse, the snow was · throug·h,\ he·sa·I·d .. ••We're gom· g But that· didn't make any difference to the guy sitting to go for it, When I get the go- next to me who was manning ahead, 'I'm going to _give it all we've· got.\ the controls. He gripped the throttle, raced the engines and Like any experienced pilot, looked out into the storm and risks didn't bother hlm, even enter his mind. He dismissed . Word -wonder any chances of failure and said, ''If we don't make it, we won't be around to care about what happens.'' Pretty exciting stuff. It's true- to-life as·well as spine,.tingling. I should know because I was ·'- by GARY GLAUBER field as it does, the phrase seems to halt the ensuing In thfs land of ersatz treastire conversation just long enough and pawned prol:llises, clever for you to try and figure out conversation is king.· ~o two wh~t's. be~n going. on. Mean\ ways about it. The wacky thing whil.e, It giV~s you tune enough is, ifs so~ gosh darn easy to do.. to. figure a graceful yray. out Ignore pop singers who may try..- whe~ your pnofessor or friend to tell you that they don't want rea}lzes that they have been to Work haFd enough for clever' thrown for a \verbal ~oop.\ . conversation. With just a few ~ut)\ ~s any novice w11l quick tips, you'll be able to qmckly d1sc~ver,pbrases do not confuse· your friends and with .a conversat1on m~ke. Words, added practice, you'll soon be t_!!.Q.ugh smaller and segm~n- able to confuse yoltl'self. It just .tary, ar~ the weapons by which takes a few minutes of practice your . victory must be ac- each' day- no special tools or comp)lshed. Ergo, Therefore, , implements needed - and you Cons~quently, Ipso Facto, and can even do it while in clasl'!! the _like are sure to, turn a few - Here's how. heads. ·Once they re turne.d, To . start off it is best to keep them there with an am- masterthosek;y phrases Which phibian. Oi' apartheid c~mme.ht:\ make even the trite seem bright • Y~ur fnends and enem!~s. alike but Which ~aa11y mean nothmg ~111 maryel at ¥0,~ a~~hties a~ at all. For mstance, the phrase . Mr. Qm~k Q~p or· Ms Gab \as you may or may nut kno~\ ~:tr.aordiJ:la~e •. -And, · wowee, prefaces an _ 1mper:ahve 1t s so facile,tt s la~ghabl~. statement with an air of I know what. you re saymg to authority, addressing both the yourself ri~pt now and I can't ignorant and the worldly at blame yo~! I ~ould be a clev~r once. What a change from the c?nversatlonal~st; how . stup1d ~ld days when people would just I ve bee~. Tlus coul~ be th~ listen to your \hey rhubarbs answer I ve been lookmg for. · get ~r load of this i\ Anothe~ Yes, you'd be: surpris~~ just - very important phrase to have how ~~ny ~·eople are w1smg ~p at your fingertips is ''oddly and JUrnptng onto the ~~g enough,- ju~t the reverse . is bandwagon of wor~aday Wits. true.\ - You may evert fmd peopll'! Coming_ from an esoteric left calling you up on the telephone A S~ul'$ ·Cry . Oh western winds corn~. search my-soul Hear the plaintive cry . , Loneliness and fear crack the inside ·A' complex $trucffire crqin'bling, smoking, Partially razed Wlthin Some.one listen to me, speak with me . The comfort. of words hastens: a revival Of i:ny soul. .,1 · \ · for pure amusement, or something along those lines. You see, ·I did it again. Along those lines. It's ever so much f!ffi. Gee, and nowit's almost like instinct .. Confusion is where it's at today. Mastered con- fusion is a universal. ' So, remember, this is no offer for some cheap disco albwn or some egg scrambler or some passing fancy. This ig:it. The big banana,. the offer of the c()ffer, all of the marbles. A le()pard's spots do not fall far from the tree. A glass of spilt milk is not worth the time. Look before you leap. Most . importantly, con- . sider my offer. It's not every- day that something like this comes arollhd. Not this paper, this offer, although - you've got a point since both only are presented on a limited basis during a certain time of existence in the cosmos ... but what is the meaning or all · this, or anytliing, does it have meaning, and why Cohoes? These are the' things dreams are made of- or is that ether? I forget~ Just remember, the Alamo wasn 1 t built in a day~ And in jus! a few days,_yoJ,l can be doing it too. Oddly enough, just the reverse is 1rue. - .. -ACB Please. sUbmit all submissions ·to Fine Lines, Box 1388, Jan De Q_eka, Editor of Fine Lines. (Poems can be anonymous if you want.) . ~ ·- ' '\ ' ' • there. The dialoU:ge didn't come from the script for ''Airport\ or ,. any similar suspense flick. It's real·life stuff. But tl)ere's enough action to make an ex .. Citing dramatization. If such a film is produced, there's a perfect title for it : No, not \Airport '79.\ If it's going to be reali.gtic, it's got to be called ··P.H.C. '79.\ Anyone who attended this annual semi-forma( event -for fraternity. and sorority inem- bers.last S;:~turday night at the Girling Center knows what happened and probably has a personal tale of suspense about what ir was like to drive over during this winter's worst storm. Outside conditions could not have been less favorable. But that didn't stop most .of the people who had bought tickets from attending. · · Union students· are a hardy bunch. Such a .Jarge turn-out at the Girling Center last Saturday night proved. that. But having shown their mettle, I don't understand why the Sehenec~ tady Police Department and event vrganizers had to further test the courage and valor of those w!;to attended. The opening scene of this piece was invited because the police department decided. to enforce the- regulations prohibiting cars from parkjng along ·the road at the foot of the Girling Center: No matter that the reason . Why the autos were there Was becaU&e the snow ·and sleet had made it all but impossible for them to make the climb up the i.'oad to the center parking lot. Shortly before midnight, patrons were informed that any cars left on the street W()uld be towed .away; · That notice sent most of those who. had driven outside, like me. What followed was a traffic jam that Would have done New York · City 'proud during a rush hour. Autos were backed up as far as the eye could see, watching vehicle after vehicle attempt to lurch up an icy grade, with no better than middling success. Lots never made it up the hill, making the situation even more pointless and ridiculous. The car I \co-piloted\ (that meant I · wiped the snow off the wind- shield since the wipers had frozen and pushed the auto out of snowbanks when it got stuck) was one' of those that were unseccessful in makfng . the. grade. After nwnerous attempts up the hill and about an hour-and- a-half, the pilot and I decided to admit defeat and park the car on !he road, about 15 feet away from;where we had began. - Our dates surely must-have had a great time while we were outside playing pilots-in-a- snowstorm. (The sarcasm is intentional. ) But the blame for this cannot be laid on anyone in the P.H.C. They couldn't know what the weather would be like when they scheduled the event. They were, however, responsible for the event itself. Probably the most important thing at a function like last Saturday night's is the band. And this is where the organizers must be faulted. It's a safe bet that, while it might have been colder and more cramped sitting outside in a car, that the music on the radio was better than what the band was playing inside. In any situation this is disappointing. \\ben you have to pay to listen- as at the P.H.C. ball - it's more than that. It's inexcusable. All of this is too bad. For r hose who attended the event, Saturday night may have been memorable - but probably .not for the right reasons. - . Which isn't to say that most of the patrons didn't. · ·~njoy themselves. Let's remember, students here are ~a . l)ardy bunch. It's going 'to. take more than a snowstorm and. a lousy band to get between them and a good time. rd just hope that the next time the P.H.C. or any other College organization stages this sort 'lf event - to be specific, when th(:l Socia~. Qoqunittee holds the Winter Carnival ball - it's b~tter planned and executed. And if a movie is ever made about this year's P.H.C. ball, I think that Paul Newman wo.uld . .Qe perfect to play me in the lead role.

of in st, of the In of of ge, ate in \ \ i l ( '• I ·; ~ I i j ) ' ! ~ ; i. I I l , I l I l I i I l I l I CONCORDIENSIS, January 25 1 1.979 Let The Geek Speak by TODD A. MILLER A · cloying, purple darkness feH about the campus; · and in the closeness of the twilight I perceived, with no ''undue surprise, the arrival of a phalanx of brooding storm clouds; dark, foreboding storm clouds whose'-import was so obvious, so ominous, that I could only pause be'fore the portals of Fox, and sadly ex- claim: \More lousy weather. More . rain; more snow; more slushy, muddy, icy weather. Shit.\ I strode in doers, forcefully, purposefully, not daring to look back upon tlle meteorological melange which hovered in- sidiously above fl:dr Union's once lush verdure. Union! g,reat alma mater; ence a coHege, but now .... I shuddered, quietly, and then the monnent passed. There would be time to dwell on that point . . . there would be time ... Union Views: A thin blue tongue spat sullenly across the sky, and then -another, and then another, until the eerie calm was shat- tered by thunder. Soon the sky was veined with lightning, and the din of the thunder was almost tmbearable. \Enough!\ I shrieked, amazed; \For God's sake, I must study for my midterms!\ But the clouds fought furiously, heedless of my impassioned cries. The air smelt of burnt ozone. Frotn the furthest recesses of Alexander Field to the darkest, most perverse corner of Webster House, the campus was awash with rai,n; violent, sadistic, slashing rain which whipped across the campus with all the tact and retiring_ grace of a drug-crazed grizzly. Then, a strange. wonderful, dangerous thing happened. A single, wayward stroke of lightning struck a large, projecting mass of slush which lay nestled aga,inst the Nott. A lone passerby stood aghast as the disrupted slu.sll glowed a dull, lethargic red; fueld his hand to his mouth as the slush began slowly to take form, shake its massive, misshapen head, and rise to its full stature. \Slush monster! Slush nnonster! \ he cried crazily, as he spun about, fell, scurried to his feet, and ran into the Pub. The Slush Monster, feeiillg somewhat proud of itself for having happened at aH, patted an ice-encrusted thigh lazUy, and then scanned the horizon. \Glurgh it said, non- , committally. · · N urk.'' The Slush Monster started moving, its frigid footsies stamping powdered snow and ice a baut its body like frightened pixies avoiding the ponderous path of some ungainly Behemoth. Full thirty feet tall, and weighing several Page 3 t tons, it began a slow, unhurried trek towards North College. Mary-Lou Purebuteasy did not see the gigantic paw smash through her lonely window high above the hustle and bustle that was Union College; she did not even scream as the Monster drew her out the window, holding her aloft, P<>ised just bey<md the touch of his icicled jaw. She was too coked out to notice. \Wow. You're really tall. You go here?\ To be continued . . . Real Life Thriller byJIM DAVIS The setting was straight out of the blizzard scene in the movie \Airport.\ About six inches of snow were already on the ground. To make matters worse, the snow was now mixing with freezing-rain. And visibility was near zero. But that didn't make any difference to the guy sitting next to me who was manning the controls. He gripped the throttle, raced the engines and looked out into the storm and Word Wonder by GARY GLAUBER In this land of ersatz treasure and pawned promises, clever conversation is king. No two ways about it. The wacky thing is, it's so gosh darn easy to do. Ignore pop singers who may try _ to tell you that they don't want to work hard enough for clever conversation. With just a few quick tips, you'll be able to confuse· your friends and with added practice, you'll soon be able to confuse yourself. It just takes a few minutes of practice eadr day - no special tools or implements needed - and you can even do it while in class! Here's how. To start off, it is best to master those key phrases which make even the trite seem bright . but which really mean nothiilg at all. For instance, the phrase \as you may or may nut know\ prefaces an imperative statement with an air of authority, addressing both the ignorant and the worldly at once. What a change from the old days when people would just listen to your \hey rhubarbs, get a load of this!\ Another very important phrase to have at your fingertips is \oddly enough, just the reverse is true.\ Coming from an esoteric left A Soul's Cry Oh western winds field as it does, the phrase seems to halt the ensuing conversation just long enough for you to try and figure out what's been going on. Mean- while, it gives you time enough to figure a graceful way out when your professor or friend realizes that they have been thrown for a \verbal loop.\ But, as any novice will quickly discover, phrases do not a conversation make. Words, tl~.Q.ugh smaller and segmen- tary, are the weapons by which your victory must be ac- complished. Ergo, Therefore, Consequently, Ipso Facto, and the like are sure to turn a few heads. Once they're turne.d, keep them there with an am- phibian or apartheid comment: YolJr friends and enemies alike will marvel at your abilities as \Mr. Quick Quip\ or \Ms Gab Extraordinare\. And, wowee, it's so facile,it's laughable. I know what you're saying to yourself right now and I can't blame you!\ I could be a clever conversationalist, how stupid I've been. This could be the answer I've been looking for.\ Yes, you'd be surprised just how many people are wising up and jumping onto the big bandwagon of workaday wits. Yo~ may even find peopl~ calling you up on the telephone Come search my soul Hear the plaintive cry Loneliness and fear crack the inside A' complex structure crwnbling, smoking, Partially razed within Someone listen to me, speak with me The comfort of words hastens .a revival Of my soul. \\' for pure amusement, or something along these lines. You see, I did it again. Along those lines. It's ever so much fun. Gee, and now it's almost like instinct. Confusion is where it's at today. Mastered con- fusion is a universal. So, remember, this is no offer f<Jr some cheap disco album or some egg scrambler or some passing fancy. This is it. The big banana, the offer of the coffer, all of the nnarbles. A leopard's spots do not fall far from the tree. A glass of spilt milk is not worth the timP.. Look before you leap. Most importantly, con- sider my offer. It's not every day that something like this connes around. Not this paper, this offer, although - you've got a point since both only are presented on a limited basis during a certain time of existence in the cosmos - but what is the meaning of all this, or anything, does it have nneaning, and why Cohoes? These are the things dreams are made of - or is that ether'? I forget. Just remember, the Alamo wasn't built in a day. And in just a few days, YOJ.l can bE doing it too. Oddly enough, just the reverse is true. -ACB Please submit all submissions to Fine Lines, Box 1388, Jan De Deka, Editor of Fine Lines. (Poems can be anonymous if you want.) slop, determined. \We're going to get this baby through,\ he said. \We're going to go for it. When I get the go- ahead, I'm going to give it all we've got.\ Like arty experienced pilot, risks didn't bother him, even enter his mind. He dismissed any chances of failure and said, \If we don't make it, we won't be around to care about what happens.\ Pretty exciting stuff. It's true- to-life as well as spine-tingling. I should know because I was there. The dialouge didn't come from the script for \Airport\ or any similar suspense flick. It's real-life stuff. But there's enough action to make an ex- citing dramatization. If such a film is produced, there's a perfect title for it: No, not \Airport '79.\ If it's going to be realistic, it's gGt to be called \P.H.C. '79.\ Anyone who attended this annual semi-formal event for fraternity and sorority mem- bers last Saturday night at the Girling Center knows what happened and probably has a personal tale of suspense about what it was like to drive over during this winter's worst storm. Outside conditions could not have been less favorable. But that didn't stop most of the people who had bought tickets from attending. Union students· are a hardy bunch. Such a -large tlU'n-out at the Girling Center last Saturday night proved that. But having shown their mettle, I don't understand why the Schenec- tady Police Department and event urganizers had to further test the courage and valor of those who attended. The opening scene of this piece was invited because the police departnnent decided to enforce the regulations prohibiting cars from parking along the road at the foot of the Girling Center. No matter that the reason why the autos were there was becaU&e the snow and sleet had made it all but in1possible for them to make the climb up the road to the center parking lot. Shortly before midnight, patrons were informed that any cars left on the street would be towed away. That notice sent most of those who had driven outside, like me. What followed was a traffic jam that would have done New York City proud during a rush hour. A 1:1tos were backed up as far as the eye could see, watching vehicle after vehicle attempt to lurch up an icy grade, with no better than middling success. Lots never made it up the hill, nnaking the situation even more pointless and ridiculous. The car I \co-piloted\ (that meant I wiped the snow off the wind- shield since the wipers had frezen and pushed the auto out of snowbanks when it got stuck) was one of those that were unseccessful in making • the, grade. After numerous attempts up the hill and about an hour-and- a-half, the pilot and I decided to adnnit defeat and park the car on ~he road, about 15 feet away from where we had began. Our dates surely must have had a great time while we were outside playing pilots-in-a- snowstorm. (The sarcasm is intentional.) But the blame for this cannot be laid on anyone in the P.H.C. They couldn't know what the weather would be like when they scheduled the event. They were, however, responsible for the event itself. Probably the most important thing at a function like last Saturday night's is the band. And this is where the organizers must be faulted. It's a safe bet that, while it might have been colder and nnore cramped sitting outside in a car, that the music on the radio was better than whar the band was playing inside. In any situation this is disappointing. \\ben you have to pay to listen- as at the P,H.C. ball - it's more than that. It's inexcusable. All of this is too bad. For 'ho.'-e wh11 attended the e\·ent, Saturday night may have been memorable - but probably not for the right reasons. Which isn't to say that most 0f the patrons didn't e-njoy themselves. Let's remember, students here are a hardy bunch. It's going to take more than a snowstorm and a lousy band to get between them and a good time. I'd just hope that the next time the P.H.C. or any other College organization stages this sort ')f event - to be specific, when the Social Committee holds the Winter Carnival ball · it's better planned and executed. And if a movie is ever made about this year's P.H.C. ball, I think that Paul Newman would .be perfect to play me in the lead role.

., Video Study: Nina LeClerc In New York Nina Rosenblum LeC!'erc explores film making. byGARYQUUBER After a busy term away, Nina Rosenblwn LeCle~c is back. But the 'busy' .part hasn't changed~ Prof. LeClerc is as bu;y as ever, presently -involved in numerous projects of interest. a~ve and beyond her duties as assistant professor of art here at Union. L.eCleFc too·k a one-term residency at New York University's School· of Arts to study Under fibn-maker George Stoney. She received an Andrew W. Mellon FoWidatkm grant to pursue her interests in the field of video film. Her interests in this area stem . from video's potential aecessabHitY .and p()wer. \The con1binati(m of Words; pictures and sound is extremely powerful,\'' she says. Studies within the classropm were not en() ugh,. though. Together with colleague Stephen Martin, LeClerc went . to the South Bronx ~to· videotape Health Studies Exparided · by PETER PERIUN As Director of the Health Studies Center of Union's Institute of Administration and Management, Pr()fessor Eugene _Schneller is reorganizing the program to expand: its capabilities. Prof. Schneller is on a leave of absence from UniQn's sociology department so that he .may oversee the ren()vation. of the center. At present, there are 62 part-time and 11 full-time students working on graduate degrees in the program. According to Prof. Schn.eller, there ·has been. a lack of co- operation in the past between the various extensions of Union University. Previously, for example, Uqion College and Albany Medical COllege would both conduct sinlilar ·projects independently without com- plementing each otbtr's work. Now, however, Prof. Schneller is. strengthening. the ties with the other schools in the' university, .Al bariy Medical College and the Albany College of Pharmacy in particular. For. example,· Union's Institute of Administration and Management . and the Albany College of Pharmacy have- Plimpton Cont'd. • • Continued from page i who went onto subsequent notoriety as the star of the television show MASH. Later, as part of his research for a series of articles for Sports Illustrated about professional golf, Plimpton arranged to enroll as an amateur in three West Coast tournaments: Bing Crosby's National Pro-Amateur on the Monterey Peninsula; the Lucky International in San Francisco and the Bob Hope Desert aassic in Palin Springs. A rnediQcre player with an 18- handicap, · Plimpt9n expanded on the ... descriptions in his :magazine articles in his book The B()gey ·Man, which ap- peared in 1968. His later ~xcursions . into professional sports included a return appearance as an NFL quarterback in 1972, this time with the Baltimore Colts. Plimpton directed the Colts for a series in an emibition game against his old teammates, the Detroit Lions. This activity was recorded in ·a television special and a book, Mad Ottcks and Bears, -that Plimpton .. wtot'€. F-illed with hliiilOrollS anecdotes, perhaps the best is the account of the l{arras Open golf .tournament, whet·e contestants teed offto the blare of rock music, llamas ran loose ()n the course and automobile wrecks were given as prizes. · · Plimpton took to the ice as a goalt~nder for tlle NHL Boston Bruins against the PhiladelPl:tia Flyers in a special five-:-minute period prior to a 1977 exhibition . ,game. He'trained with the Bruins for se\\eral weeks. In his five minute tour of duty against the Flyers, he facedsix shots on goal, stopping all but tne first one. · lit a Sports Illustrated article appearing in\February 1978, he noted that hi~ biggest moment of triumph was stopping a one- on-one penalty shot by _the. Flyers' Reggie. Leach, a high- scoring forward. ''There were just the two of us on that vast expanse,'' Plimp-: ton wrote. ''As Leach crossed the blue line, I skated hastily up to meet him. As I slid up to him, I clo~ed my eyes. Leach took his shot; it hit the edge of one of my skates and skidded away.'' Explainiqg the literary purpose behind his athletic stunts, Plin'iptoa. said, \I'tn a . writer, nQt ati athlete. Most teal : athletes are not articulate enough to write a genuinely good bo()k. I'm just trying to bridge the gap.\ · He performed similar roles as an entertainer. In addjtion to appearing with the New York Philharmonic in February 1968, an e.xp·erience that was recorded in the television special, The Secret Life 'of George Plimpton, Plimpton also has tried his luck as a comedian on a Las Vegas .stage · and on the high wire with a circus act. A special contributor to ~ports IllllStrated. and editor of the international literary quarterly Paris . Review, Plimpton was npt-ed by one biogr~pher to be \a favorite of the jet set.\ Providing that t~e plane he's- scb~duled t~ take to New Yo~k doesn't:encounter problems like the ones'· that forced him to cancel .his schedUled Jan. ·10 appearance here, Plimpton will deliver a lecture at Memorial Chapel next T~esday evening. beglUl to offer a. joint. B.S.- Pharmacy·MS-Health Systems. degree this fall'. Pharmacy students enter this program in their third year. The joint . degree is designed for students with interests- in Pl:far• maceuti~al interests in par- ticular. Prof. Robert .Miller from the Albany Medical Cdlege was recently appoill.ted the associate director::.. of the Health Studies Center. Prof. Schneller describes Professor Miller as \impressive and knowledgable'' and explains that he \contributes: a• medical , side to the center that we haven't had in the past..\ The medical college, which has a recognized Depal\t~ent of Preventive and CommUnity ·Medicine, will send· two students on fellowships to the program in order to ea:rn. masters degrees h. addition to their medical degrees. The new program-will provide the degree candidates with a practical understanding of medicine from a health worker's point ·of view and include applications in the SoCial ' Sciences and Hwnanities; The r»rogram i~ designed to acquliint stud~nts With tbe various. aspects of health care. \We <ion 't want t)lem (the students) to just know accounting,\ . Pro-f. Schneller explains. Thus, the faculty .of the Instittlte inclu(le professors from departments ranging from eco11omics to philosophy. . · Overall, the changes in this program wip enable it to provjde the student ~ith better training in a wider-. rang~ of aspects of Health Studies.~ rn· adaition to the access to·t the State Department of .Health and . Bureau of Health Services Management, these revisions enhance the curricula of the center. Union Book Needs You Photography Layout Artwork Literary - etc. Come .to Union Book Room , · \' 3rd Floor Carnegie Thursday Feb.l,1979at 7:30 her father at work .. Her fathe:r, i,ncidentally, is New York photographer Walter Rosen· blum, who was at work under a Guggetlheim :grant to . examine ·aspects of the South Bronx. ' . .... LeClerc and Martin set out to show how Rosenblwn went about his work as a still· photographer by capturing hi~ craft on videotape. Second~y, they tried · to approach the conditions of the South BronJ~; directl'y, paralleling Rosen· blum's intent in the video medium. Rosenblum uses his photography to ·portray the, · realitjes of public issues. lte se~ks to open people's eyes to the problems around them, He has depJlrted from the 'con~ · temporary trend of 'photography as a reflection of the. individQ.aPs view'po~nt.' LeClerc agrees with her father's concerns , Within photQ~raphy ~- furtb~rs those· Ideas 10 the realin of videotape .. The South Bronx, by itself, offers many lessons, she says. \It's a tragic, tragic, situation. - It's so 'e:!dteme you find it very hard to believe · your eyes. Garbage is knee-deep in places; rats. ;are running around in daylight. _And yet there are many heroic peQple there-great people with the strength and foresight to try. andsurvive. ,., Surprisingly, the venture in the South Bronx came through flawlessly. ''~e 1 camera was like a magnet,\ LeClerc said. \Television is the one thing everyone understands.\ . The result of LeClerc and Martin's work is, nine hours of tape due·to he edited some time this month into a final 25-minute piece ·entitled \Compassionate Ally: A Photographer in the South Bronx.\ LeClerc also prepared a seven-minute color film called \Terry documenting the day's. events for a resident of the Young Adults Institute, a home · for 'the retarded in Brooklyn. Another film still now to be edited f-ocuses on the renowtion of the Astor Place . . Subway station in New York qnd tWill explain bo.w 'the · renovation . was accomplished with community help. Two further videofape \ projects are in progress or slated forthe nearfuture. One is .a documentary on Local 1199, the United IJ:ospital and Drug 'Workers. The .project integrates photography into, the life of JUining and cotton workers With the purpose of providing New 'York with a ;realistic view of \hc:tt is happening in that part of the .country. Its educational value is self~evident. Another ·project Will document the re~birth of .a toWn from scratch. The whole town of West Stockbri'age, Mass. had be~n purchased· several years 9go by ayoc~ ~us~cian. ~ow that .the mus1e1an 1$ Jeav.mg, N .Y .u. ~s ,summer program· will be oq-hand to ·plan. the ·new · ;to:wn-~o-be. 'Fhis excit1rig coll11llunity video project, will get underway this spring and LeClerc will be there. · - -~ Q LeClerc feels that video is the medium\ of the future. It will ·i:\.evolutionize the industry, ,;he predicts. \It has in\mediacy,; it ean relate complex ideas, it's light· and portable, it's less expensive than film, and it can be played through any television.\ Features Uke 'instant replay~ also add to .its advantages as an, educational .aid. \All told, it is a medium IJeople are · comfortable With.'' So · then, . tbe inevit~ple q_uestion: What about a vide'o eourse at Union? LeClerc feels tllat the financial outlay .for .~ch. a course wotild be ( too great. ''The initial equipment 11.ecessary is rather expensive, besides, th~re are no editing · ·facilities 1or video at Union,'' s;lle seys. But; perhaps one day, tile medium of the future may find a future at Union. Nina LeCI~rc certainly hopes so. This multi-talented-artist also bas four 'painting· exhibitions' to speak of. Her work is presently part of an exhibit of JJColl professor&;' works at the Schenectady Museum. Other exhibitions will be at the New VorkState Council for the Arts, . tlle Pelhan'. Artseenter, and the Norfolk Library G~Hery in Vermont. These highly- · r-ecommended exhibitions are ~ut a small showing of LeClerc's many ~-al~ts. After .a Busy tenn, Umon College. IS glad to have Nil}.a LeClerc· back. I .. ·winter Carn-ival: .. I . Is·. Coming Feb. 7-12 McAT. DatP.Ai.Di~ GMAT j,::B GRE • OCAT ·Ill • SAT ' . . Flexible Progrann & Ho,.,ra trhere· IS • ~~fff!retace!l! 1 Albany Center··· ·~~·~ 1,. 163 Qefawa re Ave. · .,. · N. . Delmar - . ..,. . . h \\ · ( SlS) \3 9 . 81 u EPUCATIONAt CENTER p · Q,_,,e, 4f ..u TEST PREPARATION . . . . . . SPECIALISTS SINC£ 1938 Outside N.Y. State Only CALL Tllll FREE: 800·223·l782 c~nters !n Malar us Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and·-Lugano, Swltzerl'\d I ' ~ '. • 0 s 1 b c A c h (!1 g: dl h o: n s: e: ·sJ a t1 e:ll ni m st• it~ tw ., efl on PI re' ra lie ail jo1 M; bo WE nu frc re ad . pe in: to go thl l eq be to to i>r• r sti lnl br• -191 br1 apJ COl UpJ I to fev FC 1 COI sor Us' po~ ter old the cor

' k or lEliS L199, >rug ates ~ of With New v of rt of onal wm own 'nof had ~ars ~ow big, will new- :1ng will and the will she '{,; it it's less can any li:ke .its mal lum ;b--.\ ;.p~e de'o ~els tor ·too .ent ive, :ing •n,\ lar, nay fin a also sto ntly Coll the :her ~ew rls, _ the in Jly- are of ~ra is LCk. l .. . - CONCOBDIENSlS., January $6, 1919 Proctor's .. by CAROLE JEAN RElNIG The Proctor's Theatre on 432 State Street vvas first opened in 1926. Through the years, it has been Schenectady's plush center for t!iltertainment. Although · recently out of commission for ~ shert while, it has been re-opened under the care of the Art Centero.Theatre group in·an effort to \revitalize downtown Schenectady.\~ In an interview with Con- cordiensis, Mrs. Marty Moore, a member of the Art Center- Theatre group and board member. of tbe Schenectady Council for the .Arts, outlined tbe project and its progres~ thus far, · ·The City officially placed tJ'le historic landmark: in the hands of the group on Jan. 3, opening night of Blac.kstoM's Magic Show • ._.- r \The show was a sellout,\ e~plained Mrs. Moore. \Sixty- . six: people had to stand arid an additional 30 to 40 had to be~ turned away.'' • What exactly is the Art Center• Theatre group trying to ac- complish? They are extending voluntary efforts toward the opening .of the theatre for community use for events such as concerts, plays, movies. and other activities which require the large facilities offered QY Proctor's Theatre. Mrs. Moore has been in touch with student activities here, concerning the use of the theatre for College .Reopens and College-related events; Mrs. Moore also stated that the theatre would house events of its own, such as the magic show presented Jan. 3, up- coming dance. repertoires, and an arr.ay of movies. Although the Art Center-Theatre group cannot afford to bid on first-run movies, they plan to display second~run movies as well as some classics. The planned entry prices are $2.50 for adults, $1 for children, and $1.50 for senior citizens. ''We hope events that we bring in won't be looked upon as competition.'' Mrs. Moore ex:plained that.insteadthey \fiSh to coordinate their activities with thos·e .of other local groups in a supportive manner. Mrs. Moore- added that she hoped the theatre would be used in (:()njunction with-gotels as a conyention facility. .She ex- plained that . by attracting conventions to Schenectady, the community as a whole would prosper. Proctor's Theatr~ is n()w within its demonstration · season, which will run . into June. It is hoped that both Schenectadians and U.nion students will make good w;;e of the Opportunity opened up by the intense effe>rts of the Art· Center~Theatre Group. \We want people to feel that it's their theatre&and we would like them to use it,\ Mrs. Moore said, Historic Proctor's Theater revitalizes downtown Sch~nedady. On Terms Abroad: l~mp:r,essions Of Florence by LYNNE GREENBERG While most of us spent Fall term at the Union campus taking o11r required three courses, some students had the opportunity to go abroad and ex·perience another culture. Beth Berlin and Dana Mintzer, ~, both juniors, were two of the twenty-three students who participated in the trip to It~y. Both Beth and Dana lived with a family near Florence. Their daily schedules began by talting· a bus to their Swiss language school where they took classes. There they at- tended two classes with Italian professors and one class given by a Union professor, Hans Freund. They found that the Italian course they had taken at Union didn't really teach them as much as they needed. \Professor Freund really made the program,\ according to l3eth. The program was run extremely well. Professor Freund brought the group on many side trips including weekend excursions to Rome and Venice. · ·. Travolta and \Grease\. Discos · are very big in Italy. The food was great and ac- cording to Dana and Beth it was, \nothing like Italian food in America.\ The small shops which were often just people's houses usually had the best food. Beth remembered the ice cream and homemade noodles which they often ate. \Italy has so much to offer.\ When asked why they had chosen to go to Italy, Beth and Dana .eXplained, \We just had to get away from here. Picking Italy was arbitrary. We learned so much.\ You Can Be A Disc Jockey Beth and Dana found the It~lians ta be very friendly. In the streets of Florence, Italian guys would pick out the American girls and would sometimes even follow them through the streets. Dana notes that one ·of the highlights of the trip is all the art musewns they were able to visit. \We saw practically everything famous from the Renaissance period.\ In fact, Dana has now decided on a second major in Art History due to her trip. WRUC elected a new executive board last Thursday night, and the five board members will oversee the station as it alters and expands ~ts operations to conform with tWO' FCC rulings. ·The- first one, which takes effect Feb. 7, allows disc jockies on the air without licenses. Previously, a person was required to have a third-class radio-telephone operator's license before he could take the air. \Now anyone can be a disc jockey,\ said senior Dave Marker, ~ form~r executive board member. '~This means we'll have a much larger nwnber of people to choose from when choosing DJs.\ Although they will not be required to have a license, \Dave added that \the qttality of the was made to ce>nduct the elections early .. The new board members took control of the station immediately upon election. Peter Raymond, a junior and former WRUC music director, isthe new general manager. lie will,preside over the board and is its chief executive. He also acts as. a liason between tile station and the Student Forwn, campus and oqtside com- munities. Junior Ira Slavit. · station sports director until his election and known to many as the voice of Vnion hockey, is the station manager. He is responsible for WRUC'.s day-to-day operations. \It's .sort of a catch-all job,\ explained Dave Marker, who served in the position from the spring of 1977 until winter .of 1978., \If something has to .be done and there's no one else to do. it, Ira will.\ . people wh9 play m•.tsic should Improve liecause we'll be able to make sure that anybody who goes on the air has been traiqed thoroughly.\ For this purpose, a fully- equipped \practice studio\ has been set up for prospective DJs to learn the operations needed to go on the air, as Well as to practice techniq\le~ Junior Tom Talbot, the new' -,program d~rector, will be responsible for the . on-the-air content of WRUC's 'program- _. ming, He will design special progcamming and will be in charge .of DJs-especially ill'l- portant in light of the FCC decision that. allows DJs on the air without licenses. The other FCC ruling stipulates that all FM stations must have a minimum broadcast power of 100 watts by 1980. Presently~ WR'(lp broadcasts with 10 watts. An application to the FCC is being ' completed for permission to upgrade its signal to 100· watts. Dave expects the application to l}e completed and filed in a few weeks. \Then it's in the Ii'CC's ballpa!k/' he said. The new executive. board is composed of three juniors; one sophomore and one freshman. Usually, elections ·for 'these positions are held late in the tenn. But three members .of the old;board were forced to give up the1r dutres because of personal consideratfons~_ and a decision Paul Nickelsberg, a fresh- man,. is' ·the new technical director. Earlier this year he played a key . role in outfitting the \practice\r studio B, good training for his present duties. Sophomore Andy McNutt, a former production manager~ was elected business director. He prepares the station's budget, does the annual in~ . ventory, keeps the books and oversees the station's office. Fm·merly, these respon- sibilities were handled by the · .station manager. But .past performances confirmed the feeling that these respon- sibilities would be better at- tended to by another person. ln addition to running WRUC~ - the new board members will also be selecting persons ·to fill. about a dozen appointed positi()ns, probably in the next few weeks. · ·~we'll have plenty of people to choose from,\ observed Ira Slavit. ''The FCC ruling will give us much more freedom to select qualified applicants--. especially to be disc jockies. The quality of our broadcasting is bound to improve.\ The students' had. a chance to do a lot of shopping. Leather goods and gold jewelry were the items Dana and Beth found the most attracting. The Italians wore gorgeous clothing. Beth found the people extremely fashion conscious - even more so than in the U.S. Clothing in Italy is very expensive. The most popular mm. .c in Italy is American hits. The Italians absolutely love John Upon returning, both Beth and Dana say there was a definite \culture shock\. \Going to Italy made me ap-. predate .more what I have here. The environment here at Union is so close knit in comparison to the term in Italy.\ BURROUGHS ·cORPORATION ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL ENGINEERS ~ . Diversified or Focused: You'll determine your own path at Graphic Sciences. Graphic Sciences, a Burroughs subsidiary in. Danbut:y, Connecticut. is the largest manufacturer of facsimile products-a technology that is rapidly becoming as common ·as the computer. While reshaping the concept of communication, you'll have the opportunity to expand your knowledge and gain exposure to state-of-the-art in: • Document Scanners • Microprocessors • Optics • Modems 'Reprography • Non Impact Printers •Image Processing • Fluid.ics •Ink Jet If working in a truly creative environment is 'important to you, ~et's get to know each ott'ler. Ask your Placement Officer to set up an interview with Burroughs Corporation, or write and tell us about yourself and your ambitions. We will be on the Union College ' Campus conducting interviews Jan 30, 1979 Burroughs Corporation ;]) Office of Professional ~mployment/GSI P.O. Box210, Paoli, Pa. 19301 An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F Sign up at the Career Counselling and Placement Center NOW!

OONOO:RDIENSL8; January S5L·19~9 VANDALISM:~··CAN E by DOUG ROSENFELD DONNACREELEY ROSLYN STONE SUE BARNHART mands a fee of $5. On this last point, Director of Security Clifford Wool claims that of the $1200 allotted per annum for the refilling of extinguishers, already this year $3000 has been spent. Dorm vandalism also in- cludes the turning in of false fire· alarms; the breaking of lights, mirrors, and windows; and the mutilation of walls, among other forms of misdirected · cre~tivity. The adoption earlier this year by the College of a policy which would fine entire floors for false alarms turned in constitutes an effort to combat vandalism of that form. Wood hails the positive effect of the . action, noting the Ide cline this term in the number of false alarms turned in relative to last all·ritght $udy. Librat·y Hit Hard - In an interview with Cob· cordienses, Mrs. Pelletiere made it dear that do.nns are not the only victims of vandals on campus. The library has al'so been hit hard by destructive vandalism, both last year and this year to date. Of 30 study lamps purchased for the library just two years ago, .only six remain, the others having either been stolen or rendered unusable .. Compounding this loss are the losses through theft of pen-cil sharpeners, plaques, and two library hour signs. Although this list may sound trifling, the bill accruing from it is not. Mrs. Pelletiere estimates that $3000 was spent last year either to repair or replace vandalized items in the library. ,And so the problem of van- dalism extends beyond the scope of the dormitory network • alone. It is a problem noted for its campus-wide proliferation. In an interview with Con- cordienses, Mills expounded Upon the nature and extents of some additional, non-dormitory related, forms of vandallsm. \Another area that is hit strongly by vandalism,'' said Mills, \are the lawns.'' Due to the large amoWlt of driving and parking on the lawns, $5000 must be spent each spring to replace the grass. This problem is caused more by the off- campus students than by the resident students. This example may be one- instance of what Mills refers to as ''a large number of times when the line between malicious vandalism and common carelessness is hard to draw.\ In many other areas, . however, that ''line\ suggested by Mills is not as hard to draw. · - Malicious vandalism iii the past has been targeted at the restrooms in the Rathskellar ' ·F-inally,. those questioned seemed to believe that tigbter security at the entrance,s to the CoUege would en~ure that the people. entering the campus · belong there, - ·· Cliff Wood undercuts all of •. ·these appraisals of the. problem . and propositions for its remedy with just .tme comment: \We don't have a serious townie problem here~'' . · Student Reaction As for v~ndalism which is• caused• by students; one-student remar~ed; \It't> strange; most of us are fr;om middle class families. We're taught to respect property and usually are given most of the things we need. There just is no need for such vandalism.\ Other students echoed these sentiments· and went on to note · that they believe most ·Of the . vandalism occurs in the ab- HI. t~· A. b . . bl \ s ·. ·. omzna .·e. .sence of an authority figure, · · such as a residence advisor. \The R.A. shouldn't have to be . a policem~n,'' stated one s~udent, ''but should have enough authority so that students wouldn't feel they can . overtly colrimit acts of van- dalism with little or no reper- • cussions.\ In further discussion -of the role of the R.A.., one student noted that \R.A.'s are in a hard position, If they try to be too · authoritarian theY risk alienating the floor, yet in terms . of authority they can't come . across as a pushover.\ To help curb the rampant · growth of vandalism, most Whether it be reflected in broken and cracked panes of glass or written in graffiti along the walls, Union College's. struggle with the problem of vandalism is there for all to see. Director of Physical Plant Richard Mills estimates that iri his budget alone is inclu~ed a yearly expense of ap- proximately $5000 on materials with which to repair damages. caused by vandalism. Add to this figurethe two man-years of labor wasted per annum and, in monetary terms, the vandalism bill as . stated by Mills stands between $10,000 and $20,000 per year. Allowing for undetected vandalism and vandalism compensated for in the budgets · of other departments, this estimate is a little .low at best. Breaking of windows . . . has re_ached epidemic proportions. · students interviewed believe there must be a \beefing up'' ·of security.- One solution to the curbing of dorm vandalism involves the stationing of security guards in each dorm. It is believed by some that \with security guards in each dorm there is a less likely chance that vandalism will occur.'' Many students '.believe that the presence of security guards at night, when most vandalism seems to take place, • would In view of these numbers and · trends, one is inclined to ask several questions and press for answers. What are the causes of the problem, what is the extent, and what are the . possible remedies? And, most im-' portantly, what forces are being mobilized to combat it? Dorms the Target As they are the facilities most used by students, so are the college dormitories also the . buildings most open to and, consequently, most frequently, abused. Students giving vent to angry frustration, alongside those haVing \fun\ through inflicting malicious mischief, seem to prefer th~ dorms as the focal points of their destructive · efforts. Why go far frora home term. In particular, the breaking of windows is a fonn of vandalism that has 'reached epid~mic proportions. Incidents of glass breakage occur eampus-wide, measurably afflicting Davidson and West, the two dorms cited by Director of Housing David Wood as those most plagued by the activities of vandals. Mr. Mills asserts that one window pane in .West has been replaced three times this school year. With the rise of the newest rage i.n window-breaking methodology, the thrqwing · through windows of salt . a_nd pepper shakers taken from West and. Hale-dining haUs, the situation is likely to get worse before it gets better. · Campus-wide, windows ap- The largest problem exists with regard : to damage to Life Safety Systems. to vandafu:e .when you c~ vandalize your own h()me? . · According to Mills, ~the largest problem exists with regard to damage to Life Safety Systems such as fire alarm~,. extinguishers, eXit signs, .and · smoke detectors. The almost routine destruction of such equipment· is not without cost, as each fire bell costs $50 plus installation, each smoke detector $120; and each fire .extinguisher replaced com- pear to serve as the favorite targets for those who choose to vandalize. Mr. Mills advises Concordienses that the window in the door of the bookstore has . of necessity been repl~ced .. recently at a cost of $300. Another victim of vandal glass fetishists has been the library. Head Librarian Jean Pelletier~. says that recently $750 worth ·Of damage was incurred by the library when a chair was thrown tbrough a window in the and the Dutch Hollow Pub1 The concrete interiors, warranted by the constant vandalism occurring in these places, could not daunt the spirit of sorne truly determined vandals who, wielding .sledgehammers, assaulted the concrete foun· · dation installed at the Pub. Mills also indicates damage inflicted to exterior objects, such as campus street lights, as a problem of some degree. His -intimation that this form of · damage may be inflict-ed . largely by non-students raises . an interesting question: Js vandalism, or is it.not, caused in · an appreciable part by ''townies?\ Townie Problem? ·In .soliciting student· reaction to the va!ldalism question, Concordieasls found- that · · although most· believe students play a substantial role in· the creation of vandalism on- ·campus, they are not the only group responsible. As con- tributory to the problem they · consider the wide-open nature of the dorms. Further, several comments .pointed to the con· cern over townie involvement in vandal actiVities . Students noted a laxness within Union's security system which · allows . easy access by . outsiders to the dormitories. Some students felt that I.D/s should be used to a ·greater .. extent to limlt the number of Strangers .entering· the dorms. · reduce the problem - by . inhibiting the vandals to some degree. One said that a definite authority figure within the dorm would give students someone .... to wbom they could report cases of in-process vandalism and so e~pect im- mediate action. · , Some students favol\ the imposition of stiffer penalties on those who are caught coni· mittilig acts of vandalism. For these people·, protection from vandalism is, as one student aptly sta~ed, '.'a basic need that should be a major priority for Union.\ -· ..., At the core of the situation is, as Director of Security Wood suggests and many ·others are quick to agree, a demonstrated \lack of respect for someone · . else's property as well as a lack • of pride in the school.\ The • • voice of at least one student concurs with Wood on his· V:iew of vandalism,. calling · it ''abominable and a lack of consideration. to school ' property.'' · This suggested attitude pro~lern is both complex and, .. deep-rooted, and it cannot \be · hoped, · in view of these qualities, that the problem will be- exorcised by a quick ·tur~ na:bout in student attitudes towards vandalism. ·Aban· dooing this philosophical. aP. proach to the problem, poli-cy must instead be considered'\that would alleviate the vandalism threat in the Short-run.· · -. R.A. reaction so:me-suggestipns Cliff Wood eKpressed the idea that adequate party facilities could pessibly. alleviate the vandalism and misconduct \that .go hand in hand.'' -He explained- tnat neither Old Chapel, the N ott, nor Strauss Lounge provides an atmosphere conducive to safe, enjoyable parties. He is also concerned with student apathy, claiming that \QY students not reporting vandalism, they are justifying it. No enforcemept agency is any good without responsible citizens reporting what they see.'' Richard Mills is of the same opinion as Cliff Wood in the matter. Mills ·feels that the solution to the vandalism problem lies in peer pressure exerted by the majority of the students on those few who are causing the damages. R.A.Role. Mills also feels that it is important for the R.A/s t!> keep a close eye upon the occupants and make it ·known that malicious behavior won't be tolerated. IUs this same per- ception on the part of Housing Director Dave Wood that dr()ve him, earlier this year, to demand that a mot'e active disciplinary tole be assumed by the R.A. 'sunder his office. According to Cliff Wood,, in the hope that fining inhibits vandalism, around . 100 fines have been levied this school year upon people tampering with fire- equipment or · ~maging school prop_erty. In v1ew oUhe fact that, as a result of .a recent meeting, Dean _of- ., . I '-~ j j • l c . ... e: t.' i: l&,i \1 sy ill

are . • :• it of 'be ese des a p- icy a the U.ct is the the the are is eep hat be ove to by bits g. or- In _of- '- '. OONCJOBDIENS!S, Jarr,ua,ry $5 1 1919 Page 7 . . . . . . ? A.FFORD IT ,HERE . Studenjs Robert H. Kellett behavior .. \ claims \ItA. 's have been given Wood is one. of the major the authQrity to fine 'tip to $25,\ proponents for instituting dorm . fining may soon~kyro~ket. cotmcHs to handle dorm The endowment of fining · problen1s· independently from power upon R.A.'s is, according the Conduct Committee. Under to Kellett, in. part an, effort to this system, students' problems keep minor cases of vandalism within the dorms would be from appearing before the . brought to the R.A.'s who,. in Conduct - Ombudsman Com- turn, would forward them to a · 'tt\e. , d.· orm council consisting of mt· e. - Dave Wood, when asked what . students and R.A. represen- • he thinks the cause .of the tatives. Many QpJ)osed to this situation is, set. the blame, for (dea feel it is a lant~institution rampant- vandalism upon the · · approach to a smalHnstitution ~'Of 3V study lamps purchased. l 6 . ~\ qn y · remazn .. -. · Jean Pelletiere, Head Librarian \lack of a proper judicial . problem. system to effectively deal with Dean of Students Robert H. ~nap propria t e student Kellett remarks that in the past, Plllll. --II!VVIIIIII'I. IN ~·GEORGE ROY HILL FILm - \TME FuNNJEST. . NEW COMEDY OF THE YEAR.\ • Vernon Scott. ~l:tEO PRESS -· \ When.: Jan. 26-28 / -Time:. Fri. 10 :P.M./ Sat. & Sun. 719:15., 11:30 Wher~: SS 016 Admission: $1.25 \in terms of property damage,\ the CoJtlege ''dealt only with restitution for damages, and not the behavior,\ saying that when you vandalized, \if you paid for it, it was okay.\ Kellett believes it is time for the institution to deal with the· behavior of the individuals involved as well_. Treatment of Vandals The current procedure .for the punishment .of misconouct is a long one, an oft ·criticized one, and one under consideration by the Governance Drafting Committee .. Kellett afforded Concordiensis a brief outline of the pvocedure imdertakeo in .. mittee is .brought in to consider · · the case. conduct committee,\ par- ticularly at a school the size of Union, where everybody, in effect, knows everybody else .. By making membership on the committee \ins~itution­ wide,\ Kellett supposes that it will be shown that \conduct is an institutional matter.\ Moreover, he insists, if the committee is to \represent the The all-student Conduct Coiiliilittee is charged with finding a verdict of guilty or innocent and, in cases of. guilt, recommen,ding punishm~nt ~o the dean of st.udents' office, m which is vested the final word on sentencing. If a defendant is found innocent, the prosecution .process ends with a dismissal by the commi,ttee. If ~uilt is ~-=----~~--~--~~----------------~~ HBy students not reporting vandalism, they are justifying it.'' cases of vandalism. - ......... ---------.,------------,...- As explained by Kellett, all -Cliff Wood f()und and sentence levied, there remains for the defendant· the recourl:!e of appeal. \conduct charges initiate 'through this office. \ In cases of vandalism, the first step is to find. out who did it. If the in-:. dividual admits guilt, he or she is \billed for restitution of damages.'' If he or she does not admit guilt, he or she is \billed for the- restitution and, in ad- dition, conduct charges may he brought,\ depending on the nature and extent of the damages inflicted. ·· Once a case of vandalism is When questioned as to the · time lapse involved between the revelation of issues and the final decision, Kellett indicated confidence in the swiftness of the process. He did, however, complain about several aspects of the conduct judiciary process, as well as point to their possible remedies. At the very least, Kellett is concerned over the fact that the Students noted a laxness within the Union security system. reported to the campus authorities, if it is too serious to warrant a mere fine or if the. perpeU·ator does not come - forward and take responsibility, K-ellett will ''refer the in- vestigation to Cliff Wood\ due to the latter's \professionar competence in. investigation.\ If Wood and Kellett find suf• · ficient cause to warrant the pr,eferral of charges, the r.nnduct Ombudsman Com- ''code of conduct .is written in overly broad .and vague terms.\ The Ad Hoc Committee on Vandalism, newly formed this year, is, reports Kellett, looking · into the solution of this problem. Kellett ~s troubled. as well by the impact of an all-student . ·Conduct committee upon the degree of equity attributable to conunittee · decisions. He, suspej:!ts that it is \not a good idea to have a totally student - community, it should do so composition~ wise.\ As--further reasons to justify the change in the composition of the membership of the conduct committee, Kellett proffers the \different perspectives\ it would provide as well as the .effect it would exercise on the \development of expertise\ in dealing with matters of con- duct. What the Future Holds Kellett looks forward, as the rest of the campus should, to the reports of both the Governance Drafting Committee and the Ad Hoc Committee on Vandalism. The resolutions of these com- mittees, both in the form of changes effected and changes recommended, are expected to impact on the vandalism situation here. The ways in which they will do this can only · be speculated. For the present tnne, we are really left with little more to do that sit back and; in anxious expectation, await the outcome of these committee sPssi<'ns. • D uNt~~si~~ PUB u T Double your ple·asure, c .5CI1ENECTADY; N~ 12308 \ 1-f() L l 0- \V Double your fun ••• Do·ub'le the Happy Hours.· Friday and Saturday: Nights '·\wa:rm~ -Up the Band''' Parfies 9-10:30 p.m. Both Nights soc Mixed Drinks '.

r: ·.·'(' (JONOORDIENSIS, JantMJ,r'll 25, 19\19 Gases And· M.asses by DAVID 1\0SENTHAL Don Armstrong and Victoria Ga.rvey A grant application made over two years ago by the. chemistry department is predicted to reach fruition sometime in .February. To the average student the titles \gas chromatograph\ and \mass spectrometer''' don't mean much, but .chemistry Professor William B. Ma:vtin says that Union's new equipment (a working combination of the above mentioned devices) \could be unique\ for a college of our size. The move to get the new equipment, according to Prof. Martin,. was part of a continuing effort by the department to keep Union's capabilities up with the best of schools. Coffeeliouse: Dynamic Duo This Friday, Union College Coffeehouse is proud to present Don Armstrong and Victoria Garvey, two highly gifted songwriter·perform.ers from the great Southwest. They have played for three years to packed houses from Los Angeles to Santa Fe, and are now touring the East Coast once again, re9ently spending a smashing weekend at the Cafe Lena in Saratoga Springs. The Annstrongs have played ahnost every major folk club in the U.S., and their versatility in songwriting as well as vocal and instrumental capabilities has made them welcome in ·cabarets, concert halls and college campuses across the country. Detective Harry Gallahan. He doesn't break murder .cases. Don Armstrong plays guitar, bass, and banjo, and his The new machine examines songwriting styles range from chemical compounds and fol.JI: to jive to what Kristin breaks them· down into Baggelar and Donald Milton in molecular fragments. The tlleir book Folk Music: More weights of the fragments are Tlla~~So~~ describe as ' 1 Sailta precisely determined by . the Fe Swmg. ~ ·machine . .From the weight . Bill Staines, a popular folk· readings, the computer within ~mger . fro~ the . Bo~ton area .the apparatus can identify the tvh~ will be performmg at the -- ch!lmical · mak~up of the Un,ron College Coffeehouse. on compound being tested. The Friday, March 2, has JUSt spectrum of the molecular ~.ecD~ded one ~f Don's song~: fragments is .printed ouf wh!le ~te Mountams Good Bye, the breaking ·down process is on ~lS·n~w album. . going on .. The machine is VIctona Garvey plays piano capable of averaging literally and .has .o!le .of th~ most tens of thousands of test beautiful votces you Will ever weighings in a matter of hear. Her songs have been minutes. performed and recorded by Continued on page 10 He smashes them. The student benefits from the precise and fast computer readout which tells him the structure of the compounds under observation, their molecular weights, and also shows the student the way the atoms are linked to each other in a 3-dimensional network. The advantage of the new equip:- ment is that experimenting and observation time is cut drastically. '-'· Tues. Jan. 30 7,9, 1'1 P.M. SS0'16 $.75 Prof. Martin says that students will benefit by using (!!]~ ' ' PANAVISION'\ Warner Bros., A Kinney Company • TECHNICOLOR'\ . the machine because of the hands on experience and training it will provide. Advanced chemistry students taking such courses as in- strumental analysis, physical chemistry' and doing individual chemistry research will ac- tually be operating the machine. Even people who are taking \lower\. level courses, such as organic chemistry, will benefit from the equipment via 464 State St. we deliver MENLII 12\ Ch .. se Pina .................. $2.75. 16\ Cheese Pizza .................. $4.00 12\ Deluxe Combo .................. $~.55 16\ Deluxe Combo ................. $6.40 12\ Works Pizzo ................. ,. $5.45 .16\ Works Pizzo ................... $7.60 .t.DDITIONAL ITEMS· • ·For 12\ • • 4St Sau1age <Pepporan• Hom Onions Mushrooms Thick Crust For 16'' • • 60t Gre.., Pep,..;& •Ground Beef demonstrations. · Schenectady 374-1888 ~ Funding for the system comes from various groups. A Federal Course Improvement Grant from the National Science Foundation gave .12,000 to the project. The college put up $13.,000 much of this coming FREE DELIVERY WITHIN OUR DELIVERY AREA / {30 minute service) .CALL 382-3838- Also 10 minute take out Counter Service •••••••••••••• OPEN DAILY 4 p.m •• ,, a.m. Fri. & Sat. 4 p.m.· 2 a.m. I 50c OFF I I ANY LARGE PIZZA I I ,.,...,...~ I I Good now thru I I Jan. 28, 1.979 1 •••••••••••••• , from savings which the chemistry departmerlt had accwnulat~d o.ver the years. After an extensive soliciting effort by the c.hemistry department a local company came forward with a grant: A donation · of $28,000 was· the result of the process which took over a year, bringing the total for the new equipment to $53,000. . The main compOnent of the system hasn't arrived yet~ but Prof. Martin hopes . that everything will .be ready to go Continue.d from page 11 Joe Bedard Dina Difrancesco Dave Jaeger Middle States Association Review Committees MATTERS CURRICULA Leslie Okladek ADMISSIONS by Feb. 1. The machine r.e.quire§ periodic maintenance because of leaks which sometimes result from it~ tremendous vacuum power. This should be no problem because Prof. Martin and some associates plan to take a thorough. course on the machine's maintenance so that cost · of repairs can be eliminated. By purchasing this delicate equipment the College con· tinues to show that it is not standing still in its pursuit of quality education. Hope Fabian Deb Damrell GOVERNANCE Steve Richards DEAN OF ADMISSIONS SEARCH COMMITTEE Ivette Mesa Murray Levison PRESIDENTIAL ·COMMITTEE ' SEARCH Dan Tanenbaum Steve Richards Gary Philipson Lisa Katz . ~ . QUAIJTY OF STUDENT LIFE I.E.F. BOARD Matt Nagorsky Steve Richards Out there in the Atlantic Ocean on a sunshine beach there's QQing to be an outbreak of revelry this vacation · break. And after the sun goes down ..• wen, you know the effect that moonlight has on a celebration. We can only hope· it won't be a full moon. Because from Jan. 13 through April 21 we',re· opening Nassau and Paradise Island to a wave of American col· lege students. We have reason to believe that wave may reach tidal proportions. Probably b~cause of the price; $269 including air fare and 7 nights hotel. So there it is, young .. AmeJica. We guarantee you the best ofdancing on the beach, water sports and a roaring party. Beyond that, you're invited to improvise. And since your talent for good timing is legendaryi we've made pr~para· tiOns for you. We're going to be ready. · With open.arms. ~---------------, I . . • · . . 501 Mtidlson Avenue I I f~)l'tC- ~1~~~:;~i~:: 2 0694 : ; INr~R COLLEGIATE HOLIDAYS INC_. . I . 1 $269 · $319 I 1 D. Jan. 13-Jan. 20 [J Mar. 17·Mar. 24 .( [J Jan. 20-Jan. 27 u Mar. 24-Mar. 31 1 I 0 Jan. 27gFeb. 3 U Mar. 31aApr. 7 I I 0 Mar. 3-Mar. 10 r J Apr. 7-Apr. 14 o Mar. 10-Mar. 17 1 1 Apr. 14-Apr. 21 1 I o Alright! Sounds good! I've checked the week I 1· I want to party and enclosed rny $50 deposit. . . I o Sounds good but I'd Uke to hear more. Send me .1 1 .. · I your brochure. · • I Name ______ ··--·-·--. --· -- I 1 Address _____ -- --· --~--~-. ---- I 1 City -~---:----·· ______ State ___ ZiP-,-· .1 I Telephone_-~-----~ 1 ~---------------~ NASSAU&PARADISE ISLAND. BAHAMAS COLLEGE WEEK. a r li h 0 fJ F C' VI cJ e: fl w a ir c• F w tt tt BJ al }a al a I fr. th br fi< th ov no th du ha fr; he </ .c 1;: 01~\!:: ~ ,\; ~ H S< C1 pi N 2~ R

urn no to hat be not of CH OONOO.RDI~NSIS, January 25, 19\19 Page 9. A roU_nd ~am pus ·RsvP ~ Senior Jeff Amado performs in the Cabaret .at 1vesday's all campus party. little Sisters· by ELLEN GREEN Every year .- students com~ plain about the food at West dining hall. Thi$ year some freshmen decided· to take action on their grievances. In the beginning of Winter Terrn. a number of petitions protesting the quality of food at. the R.S.V.P. food service at West ·:were circulated. One freshman · solic(Hng signatures in West College .collected seventy in one hour ·and an earfur .of com~ plaints. This petition was taken to the office of-Gene Labbat, the . director 'of R.S.V.P., who was ~ not there at the time. However, the chef and other workers were v.ery receptive and cooperative to the student's suggestions. In the following weeks a few requested changes had ·been made in West'smenu, but many by NELU·E WOUDEN had not.. · . ' Angelo Mazzone, director of ,Union College's food services, receivedthe usualgriping about West's food Fall Term. He VANDER looked into the situation, but complaints c o.n tinu ed throughout the term. When the Sisters becoming members of petitions . and general · afratern~yhere? Yes, you read dissatisfaction continued into. right. Recently, Phi Sigma Winter Term action was finally Kappa decided to broaden )ts taken. Mr. Labbat, resigned hori~ons by allowing a number under pressure ana --Mi-ke · of female students to join their Elmerdorf 1 was appointed fraternity. . director of R.S.V.P. in his place. It all started last spring when According to Mr. Mazzone Phi Sigma Kappa sponsored a Union College is a very tough co~d softball team. The team place to run a .fQOd service. was a success~ winning the \Union people demand quality championship with their uni!ed andiftheydon'tget it they want efforts .. The ~embers of. th,e someone to complain to.'' This fratem1ty decided. they di<ln t requires a director who is . want to lose the. muty they had. available to face student. F~~~ernity.IBembe~~Jt~P. ~c::ad · :.:.discen~nt. . -· . .-- .« about other - fratermhes As of this week dissatisfied initiating little sisters, so. th_ey ItS. v .P. patrons will take their consult~d . th~ ·· Nat10n~l complaints to W~st's new Fratermty Council The counCil director . Mike Ehnerdorf. He was pleased with the idea. Next, has been with R.S.V.P, since it the fraternity brothers, led by was founded and has run food their presid~nt, Ste~e ~iles, programs ~t several . other amended their c~~stltrutwn to schools and commissary allow females to JOm. counters for three airlines. In the fall they rushed and on -· Nov. 18 pfedged .six girls. They According to Mr. Elmerdorf, are Mirabella Cusmariu, Robin the director change ,was made LebOw, Barbara M~tz, Fran to promote better rapport Tertel, Cindy Burger and betw.een students and R.S.V.P. Wendy Landreth. Last term there wer'e food The girls do not live in the committee meetings with )lame house as t}le .b~others, student and R.S.V.P. although they often ~!§lt. They representatives, but they had are active in promoting poor student showings and little fraternity functions. Many of effect. This term new com~ the sisters eat dinner with the mittee members will be chosen brothers. and any input from students is The girls have their own of- encouraged. Mike Elmerdorf ficers;. Mirabella Cusmariu is will be at West every lunch and their pte~ident. They plan their dinner six days ~ week an1. is . own activities. Sinc.e they are willing to hear all cotnplatnts, not a national o::ganization, compliments, or suggestions. they must decide the cost 'Of What effect will all this have dues and initiation fees. They on food at West? This term have their initiation rituals. The R.S.V.P. aims to improve the fraternity br<!thers are active appearance and :var-iety of their helpip? them. . food. · Business campaign Business As Usual for RSVP under new di~ector. Harry E. Whittinghan1, 3r., chairman of the 1979 Annual Business Campaign in support of Union College, has an~ oounced the campaign's executiv·e committeE) mern: ' bersh~p for the upcomfng drive. Whyte On ~China have special skin glands which . ~ecrete a scent to mark the · aniriial' s territor.y. The committee members will direct· the efforts of 100 volllllteers., who will contact businesses and individuals in the comniunites during the . Kenneth Mark~, is studying · pregnancy block, the b'iological mechanism that . causes a female pine vole to abort her young when a strange male is · placed in the cage with her. . DavidGooler, is studying the . effects of nutrition on pine voles' -reproduction. Prof. Martin K. Whyte, a sp~cialist on the Peo.ple's Republic of China, will lecture here at 8 p.m. Thursday, Feb. 1 on ''Human Rights in China: Myths and Realities.\ The talk will be held: in .room ~16, Social Sciences building, and the public is inv!ted .free of charge. . It is scheduled just four days · after Terrg Hsia~p'ing, deputy premle.r ()f the People's Republic, reaches Washington D.C. and should be both· in- teresting and topical. The students, who are un~ dertaking the worlt as part of a requirement to complete a senior project. are working on areas ''that potentially could be commercially important,\ Dr. Schadler said,. \although practical ·applications of their · work are obviously a long way . into the future .. \ -Whyte is well-qualified to discuss the issue. His first major work, published in 1974, dealt with a central aspect of politicallifein China, under the title Small Groups and Political Rituals in China. (The \sniaU group,\ Qr hsiaq~tzu, is the basic Wlit of social organization in modern China; it has as decisive an impact on an in- dividual's political behavior, as his family relationships have on his social bebavior.) . In addition, . Whyte has just . published a mammoth study on .. peasant life in China. This . study, aild the sequel now tieing prepared onurban life in China, are both based on extensive interviews with legal and illegal emigrants from China now living in Hong Kong. The issue of human rights in China has accupied the headlines of American papers frequently during the past several m()nths':' ,Animated debates in China, sometimes in the form: of \wall posters\ · pasted up along the streets of Peking. the nation's capital, convey the impression that. the Chinese themselves are eager for a greater degree of demecracy and human rights. Such research may help Uil!cover ways of naturally limiting pine vole populations. Last year, the state lilted an outright ban on the pesticide Endrin ·because pine voles had caused so much damage in Hudson Valley orchards. This year farmers again asked that the h?n be lifted but their r.equest was rejected by' the Department of Environmental Conservation. CPR -Anyone? Union Coll~ge, through Provost Huntley has agreed to • sponsor twenty students in a CPR course to be given on campus later this term. CPR stands for Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and teaches the correct technique to provide heartbeat and breathing in victims of cardiac arrem. The · course will be given three hours one night a week for four weeks. All who are interested in taking the course are asked to coming months . \This y-ear the executive committee includes anumber of 'new faces,' although each new member is familiar as a loyal vol11nteer from past cam- paigns,\ Whittingham said. \We also are fortunate to have many members of last year's committee returning, including three former cattlpaign chairmen. \The executive committee has be~, working since the fall to plan the new campaign,\ Whittingham said. ''Last year, : the executive C()mmittee's leadership was the ·key to the most successful year in the history of the campaign. Under the guidance .of this year's executive committee, with the dedicated efforts of 100 volunteer workers, and with an enthusiastic response from the Schenectady commllllity, I am confident that the 1979 Annual Business Campaign will establish new recor-ds for the College.\ Kersh.ner. ., ·Evaluates Thomas Kershner, associate- professor of economics, was a · member of a three-member ''peer review cor:;nmitte'e\ asked to evaluate a: research study on tax reform and tax limitations which is being prepared for the city of Boston. Prof. Kershner and the two other committee members...;Dr. George Peterson, head of the Urban Institute, Washington, D.C., and Robert Cowan, director of finance for Seattle, Washington-~were asked to evaluate the research being conducted by the Boston Redevelopment Agency and the Boston mayor's office. But just what kinds of rights does the average Chinese regard as \inalienable\? And how many rights do Chinese enjoy today? Whyte will at- tempt some answ~rs in his talk. ROd·ent Re,searc·h · sign up at the Student Activities Office. If there are more signatures than spaces perhaps the College will · be willing. to sponsor a second course. at~ a The study on the implications and impact of tax reform and tax . limitations, sponsored by . -~he U.S. Qepartment of Housing · and u~::ba·n Development, is now in itf seco~d year. · Three seniors have un~ dertaken research projects involving the pine vole, the small rodent responsiple for killing la~::ge nUmbers of apple trees in the Hud~on Valley section of New York ~tate this year. - / later time. · : l Sophomore John Hunt,gets his blood .pressur.e checked,at the Red Cross blood arive here last Thursday and Friday. On Thursday, 60 Pihts were collected at Alumni Gym. Friday's collection at Memorial Fieldhouse total.led 116 pints. This figure fell short of the 248 pints collected here last October and the goal of 270 pints the Red Cross h~d set. for the drive. The students are studying under Dr. ·Margaret Schadler, visiting assistant professor of biology, who has ~tu~ieg th,.e . . pine vole.. for fow_: ye~rs and , maintains . one 1 o,f ·. tft.e .· Iew laboratory colonies of actively- .reproducing pine voles in the country. ·.: ~ -~-- R~presentatlvesr of Schenectady Museum answer questlbns at Fridafs Volunteer Day activities in StralJss Lounge. More than 20 area volunteer agencies were present to offer students an idea .of opportunities available. The evennt was organized by students Lisa · Katz and Anrea Fink and J\\' Zolner, director of student development. Nathan Keever; is trying to discover whether pine voles ... ..

.. Page 10 BUllETIN BOARD Mor.e changes and additlons te Recruiting Schedule--1979: ,, Boston Edison -Company--· E.E.'s and cM.E . .'.s. Recruiting Date: Wednesday, Feb. 14, 1979. Sign-upDate: Feb. 5, 9:30a.m. Belloham Corporation, Burlingto11, Mass. M.E. 's and I.E.'s. Recruiting Date: Thursday,Feb. 15, 1979. Sign-up Date: Feb~ 5, 9:30 a.m. ·I.B.M. Corp. (White Plains). C.S._, Math, Eco. MBA's. For: CONOORDIENSJf~, January 25, 19\19 clasuifie negotiate_ w_ fth the Housing Office prior to 4:,00 P.M. on _March 2n,d, 1979. COURSE~DROP DEADLINE ANNOUNCED.:.·The Dean of Faculty's- office reminds all students that~ tne la~t day to withdraw from a course this term without penalty will be at . the end of the sixth wee~ of cbisses .... Tuesday, February 6~ · 1979. After that date, a dropped course will.result in a grade of \F \. College regulations regarding withdrawal from a course are stated on pages 58-59 · . of the Academic negfster. LIFE lN SPAIN limitations. Cohoes .... Eat your h~rt out, my mother is -mom N.J. ls .SKI better than PHC '? . COMMIT\{E'ES Each poem must be typed or printed on a separate sheet.; and must bear the name and home · address of the stuaent and the · .col{ege address as well. Andy..,\white trash'' iS not ·, .. Winter Term AU-College Senate Committees . Manuscript-s shoUld be-sent to _only an irntt1Qveable part. of , the Office of the Press. National society, but it's also an im\ · Poetry Pt·ess, }Jox 218, Agoura, moveable car. C~. 91301. B_o_~:- ___ . ~H~op-._-e~- -y- .. o~--.-u_-h=a-d_-~: -as_-=. :....m_-u_ch_,· ·. ADMISSIONS. ., · · · Jr' Joanna BornsteJn fun as I heard--I hear you're.a n·11 J. ·ki FOR SALE ~al · en lis l\eal hot ticket! Rona Barrett . Mary Mattitnore · . , - • 1 - Gary Philipson To Rob. Tom,. and Sullr:We · · · · · ..... miss you guys tons! Love, Jane · · A 'fl!LETIC and Katie• · Eric G-otdel \ - ·· · - ' · Nancy Shideler Matt-Macho,. macho;. macho· · • Oave F.rangimone man_, I want to be a mache man • , . . . ' l - • . I Application Programming & Analysis and Systems Programming. . Recruiting Date: Tu_esday, Feb. 20,. 1979. Sign~up Date: Feb. 2, 9':30 a.m. . Each year for 5 weeks of the summer, a progt:_am is offered to students in the U.S. and Canada to travel and study in Spain. , Last su~mer, 98 students from .2&- states, BOOKSTORE ·_Sue Marr· B.E.--Your eyes.,..are red, ·. Mohamed Raihani sometimes. baby blue; you vilify-..... John Hunt ... I.B.M. Corp• (Armonk, N.Y.). · Corporate Headquarters. C.S., Math, Eco., ·MBA's. For: Application Programming & - Analysis and Systems Programming. Recruiting Date: Tuesday, Feb. ·20, 1979. Sign~up Date.: Feb. 2, 9:30a.m. · Weirton Steel Company. E.E.'s and M.E/s. Recruiting Date: Wednesday, Feb. 21, 1979. Sign-up Date: Feb. 13, 10 a.m. · Westiughouse Electril'r Corp. E.E.'s and M.E.'s. Recruiting · Date: Friday, March 2, 1979. Sign-up Date: Feb. 15, 11 a.m. Warner Cable Corporation. New York, N.Y. E.E.'s and MBA's. Subsidiary of Warner Communication.. Recruiting , .Date: Thursday, March 8, 1979. Sign~up Date: Feb. 22,\10 a.m. Israel Career Center. Fol\: Opportunities in Israel. Recruiter will be available for interviews from 10 a.m. ~o 1 p.m.- on Wednesday, Feb. 28, 1979. Litel\ature available in Placement Office. Please let the Placement Office know about. your job offers. Also, please complete your interview resume forms and bring to Placement if you have not. Thank you. Fipancial Aid Applications- Applications for aJI. forms of financial aid\ate now available at the Offi~e of Student Aid, Old Gym Hall. Students desiring renewal of aid as well as new applicants MUST submit ap- plications. For the 1979-80 academic year, there.iso:nly one form.:..the Financial Aid Form. (FAF). In .addition to fulfilling the college requirements for financial aid consideration, this form can .also be used to file for the Basic Educational Opportunity Grant (BEOG) program by checking item No. 83. The F AF must be Eiled with the . College Scholarship Service no later than March 1, 1979~ and the Master Application must he .;eturned to the Student Aid · Office by the same-date. · departed from Kennedy Airport in New Vork and- flew to · Madrict. The group wa.s then bussed to the ·campus of the Ciudad Univ.ersitaria. E.ach class met five days a week and courses ranged f.rom Elementary Spanish to Literature and · Culture. · Students toured La Mancha for two days, visiting all the in- teresting places related to · Cervantes and Don Quixote. Some students had the op- portunity ·to take advantage of the optional side trips to Pat:is, London and Ronie arranged by the program, or trips in- dependent of the program itinerary. Once or twice a week a group was .scheduled to. visit such historical places as Valle de ·los Caidos, __ El . Escorial, Segovia, Avila, Toledo, Museo\ del Prado, Palacio Real, etc. Students .found that they had also more than enough time to do, see and learn whatever they chose./ As part of the program, a trip was taken to Southern Spain, visiting famous cities as Cor~ doba, ~evilla, · Granada, Ma,aga, and tb.ree days ~ere . speAt in the. beautiful . Tol\remolinos-Beacb. . 'Plans are already ·in.progress. for the 15th Sununer School Program in Spain, 1979. Students may earn 9 quarter college credits. .. • ' · All person~ interested shOuld write to Dr. Doreste, Augustana College, Rock Island, 11. 61201 as soon as possible. Space is vecy~ linilted. Co1lege Poetry Review The Natiop.al Poetry Press announces . HELP.WANTED _Counselors: Adirondack · Boys' Camp: 7 ·weeks~ $500. · $600; Campcraft, -.Sailing,- . Swimming (WSI),· Canoeing; Trip Lea(ler, Riflery, Archery, S.ports, Offke M~nager (typing}, Driver, Tennis; 39 Mill Valley Road, Pittsford, New York, 14534. HELP Q'FFER EO English Tutoring: Off campus at instructor's home. Help given · in generating, organizirig; arid writing ideas into -coherent, • creative papers, Special remedial work in grammar, spelling, and vocabulary avaHa.ble dependent on student's needs. Call for ap- pointment, Mrs. Harris: 346- 4874. -. - PERSONA-LS Lost: semi-Muskateer named Cinders. If found, please return to 942 University Pl. -49- Happy 19th! Always, -17- P .S. Question 67 and 68: _Does anybQdy really know what time it is? Does anybody really care? . I!! Joan-G.x:eat to see you!! Ellen..:Nice of you· to take time out of your busy schedule to drop in. ..... - .. Cinders is. over_ the hill Tuesday. .. . Pat-1 hope you 1 re satisfied- Aramus The closing <late for. the sub- '· Brothers-Appreciated your mission of manuscripts by -he)p .when I. needed it. P. college students is February 1~. . Ellen-Welcome to the Bat Any student attendin~ eith~r . . junior or senior college is · -cave., eligible- to submit his verse.. ...~~C-o-,...,_ ~e-..±--- -o~C._o_ff_e_ e-h_~o-u-se-_ -t-his There isno limitation as to form ... . IMPORTANT!_! !n; ... An on-_ or theme. Shorter works are . Friday .. .:DoNUTS.,. IRISH carnpuspersons;needing a room _ preferred, because of space. COFFEE, MUSIC; FUN! J · ~~hange for Sprm~. Term must . ••. - •. ....;~.1 e.~\'- Lorraine-let's ha-ve breakfast agaU,rsometime. Wheil it'sdtier outs_ide. , Donnw--''Ba.by good-bye doesl!'t mean forever.\ .. D.--Are personals ·directly· related to sex life? .... J •. me and I'll piss on you. Tydings ... t e~in 't congratulllte .~ou W1til it's aff~ciat:...A friend. Jen--Played an;y - ~lcohol shuffle board' b;1tely? CAMPUS \\ , James Klingler 1 Ed Strong CAREER PLANNING Diane DiMeo. ~byn Koberl' Bonnie--! don't know wnat to . S ' COLLEGE RESOURCES ey, . . . Robert Colley · · Brian Marx Lydia Baby-You'tetoo much ·· for words to <tescribet I. Sherry-\Got yourself in a . bmd, huh? Lisa .... Don't give it away-- Betty-Will you go to Winter Carnival with ·me.? _ . -~. . ..-Linda-Uni<;m hockey and you · go together! HOUSING Madeline :Berger,.__. Reslyn Ston.e . Joe. Quinn Mirabelia Cusmariu LECTUR,ES, CONCERTS 'it :. ·FILMS . Debbie Feldman Dave Lyon Tom Peterson LIBRARY _ Gary-Any word on Chet's Gatherine···Cockerham .- . h · d h d' d f 'Terri Bohl dog? l_ ~r . e. 1e o an • .. - .Tun;· _ K_ enelty _ overdose of V1tamm 1 C! · - GUANO , MAN--Having problems with the ·~Tattoe{f . Lady?\ Better get the \little one\ to mass~ge -your chops. 'COMMENCEMENT - · Debbie Garber Ron Shelton Andrea Fink J.J. Srnigen '. ' .. ' . Alyssia-Ilike your dress. l . COMMITTEE ON ,f'_ACU~'l'Y'~ • like your coat, too. · Hope ·Fabian Good party-Jeff, Bob and · · Dave Thank you Larcy, you've been . sweet! Dave F .-PoughkeeiJsie girls don't have to wear tight clothe_s! Mi·ndy-:Let' s delenestrate together! L.S.--Heard any lately? .rumors . Sue--Wouldyouliketo borrflw my costwnes? Amy~-Remember., a'lways got a friend! you've HAPP-Y. ·BIRTHDAY, 'FRAN:-!!. ~ Jolin...,The dedi,;tion is on mef ' Mitt' Nagorsky .STtTDEN.'f ·LIFE ':~~ .. Lisa Katz- (Chairpers()n~ Forum . :Rep.). - ' Taryn Merz ~ Julie Gre-ifer _ EDUCATIONAL P{)LICY Andrew Mitchell (Foriun R¢p;) < Michael Arato · John Tydings · ' FINANCIAL AID Pat F'alk Tim Hagy · RiCb Konys · CONTINUING- --EDUCATION· . Todd Miller :- • • · · ·Gregory Arnold · · GRADUATE STUDIES ... Dan Lacoff -James Kitler --..·.r the ne,qiime ... C.:B. ( f··f h·_. . · ,. - ~ __ . o _. ee. ouse • • • 'Po Sant&~ s 'little helper- .. Dinmir for all. the reindeer. J. H.S.G~--To key or Nott to key; that· is the .que§tion. _ A. w . ..;,.Benevolept. despot. Continu~d frol;ki pag~ 8, ~~ . ~n.~ · Stan Gebe.rer: i--~~----------~---· ' ~----~-~--~--~ such notables as· Jolin Denver, ·Judy GolUns;. Ian & Sylyi,~, tlie · . Irish Rovers and Steve ~oOd~ _ man, to name a few~ Her song, . ·. '..'.l'he Lovin' 'of the Grupe,'' can · be found on Judy Collms•· new. album, ''So Early in the· Spring ... \ . . -. . · &:- The. Stieky Wicket Band - - . M.C. AI 'Gr:~enberg shows·· at 9 & 11 Thurs.,. Jafl. 25 . . . · Tickets On Sale 8 P.M. at Carnegie ~..N\~~~...oco-~rooCOI:.OCIOOOOI;oc:MIII '· .. ' \ - An~'One· w~o wit~essed _ . or · . knows any,th~ng abo~t the two ·car: (~~e. grey, on.~ . da~k gr~en · .station wagon) accidellt . wtuch . occu,rre~ on ·F·riday~ Dec,. 1 at . appro;,tim:atel>\\ 4-4 :ao p.m. across from 10 Un1on. Ave., •. please ·notify th:e Dean . of • Students. _ · 378-Gl:l§ · J .B.-Little radicals. ..-. C.S.--Anti-faseist. -.a.s.-Nott part <if the problem - B. W.-What a Paine! S.s.-Meet you in the Skelier? So ~ome_on over to.th& Olq Chapel this Friday night,.· Jan. 26 at 8:30p.m. and join us for· an evening of fun, good music. 'an<j. · · ·· donuts!! Remember,am.ere$'1. admission entitles you to coffee, - teas, leJ;D.onade, donuts ~ and Irish Coff~e, aU nigbt -long. See you there! ! , . · • SE La DB Pa Sl R( D~ Ri St . At · NE . Iyt . PI ·To Ri . Ch PI B( M; . Cb M; Bi: PI . Jii Cb cc Cb Lil Wi Df · Ca Cb · Re St1 Do cc Ml R~ · Mt Da Ke M! cc De Do Ra Al; Mi Ke Ga La El JOJ Br Br Bo AI Sir Me: Joj .fot FI Do Cir Lo• Sh; Ka Stt Fe: Da Jet ML To1 Bo: Lis Ali Do so· co Jef Ka: Re1 . Ju< Ani Ke' Mii BU Da1 TOJ Pel Rit Cr1 !Mu Je£ Sar

I_ . I . .,..... '. i '.··_, .. - ' .. n. . e SECURITY ... Laurie Colligan David Marker Paul Smith STANJ?lNG OF STI!TDEJ'~}~S Robert Rosenfeld David Siegel Rich DeVall . SUPPORTING S~RVICES . Abdoulai Swareh · Neil Kanner- . Iyette Mesa . PLANNING AND FftlORITlES · Tony DiGregovio Rick Gagliano . . Cheryl Swanso11 :(Fhrum Rep.)·· PRESIDEN1'IA:L 1\.DVISORY .. BOARD • Matt Lubart {For.lllll Rep.) · Ch~rles Gp)>enheirner. ·· Margo Ross Bill DeConzq_ PUBLIC R~IA'lli()~S . Jim Davis Cheryl Pgrlcer --- CONDUCT\0Ml3TJ])SMAN Chris McCarty (<:llairperson) Lisa Katz (Studen.-:t Life) · William Barnett David Becker · Cary Fetterman Charles Hoffman· · Regan Krutick Steve Miles Doug Spector StullentF~run CommittEes COMMITTEE ON COM- MITTEES Randy Feldman (<:hairperson) · Murray Levison David O'Connor Ken Plumb ·Mandy Phillips fA..t Large) . COLLEGE CENTER: Deb Da)!lrell (Ch~:airpt!rson) Doreen Blalce Randy Klein Alan Swire Mike Stockrnall Ken Gold Gary Glauber Laura-Masailo ELECTIONS Jon Ax:el Bruce Behl Bruce Kaplan . Bob. Morgan \Chairperson) Al Wypn Sindy Berger Matt Pachm.an Joe Cristofaro .ionathan Dr-iller FILM Doug Koch(C()oCh~rperson) Cindy Vanina (Co-chairperson}· Lorraine Boha11.ske '(Asst.) Sharon Berli:neL' Kathy Dome Stu Hannas · Felicia Wilbn Dave Zuckennan Jeff Siegal Mike Skliar Tom Stegemann Bonnie Blackman: Lisa Klein Ali Waltch Douglas Brum Bob Wolper CONCERT Jeff Winter C Cttairpr.son) Katie MartiiJ (S~Ial Comm. Rep.) · . · Judy Kottke Andrew MacEntee Ke.vin Moore Michael Pian! Bill Friedma11 Daniel Payne Tom Talbott Pete Charkalis Rich Strauss · P!aig Tiscltler fVIlke Ryan Jeff Spitzer Sandy BrClWil \TRAFfiC & PET COURT Jan Carlson (Chairperson) John Bu~aQ_()Ski . Martha Rubenstein Chris Cameron Norman Samuels Mich~el Hall Alan Herzberg INDEPEND8NT - STUDENT COALITlON Eric Chinn Rich Eisen DoQg Rosenfeld TAX Ahm -Rutkin (Chairman) Michael Brand (Ass't Chairman Steve Wasserman 1 · Laurie Brecher SOCIAL Ttaei Strine (Co-Chairperson) Peggy Fonte (Co-Chairperson) Lisa Heitner M.ichael Planin {Concert Cotnm:Rep.} Michele Coven Mark Kennedy Shelley Eckstein Charlotte Thomas Gary ~indlin · Katie Martin Chris Mahoney Lynn ~affin Robin CQtnick SPEAKERS FORUM J~nifer Aronoff Y,ic Gittleman (Chairpe1~son} lielene Grossberg Alan Rosenberg Michael.Chasltes Marc Luxenberg Steve Weil nave Feldman . ·Liz Weisser Amy Weltchek Renee Nisenbaum AGENDA Steve Richards Steve Grill Andy Wisoff Ad:.Hoc Committees Created by Student l:.ife FOOD FACILITIES Karen Bader Michael Losow Robin Cornick Michele Frese Lee Parish FRATERNITY-SORORITY SYSTEM Mike Squier (P.H.C.'Pres.) Charles Dex:ter Lori Walter Naney Gaglisno ... George Redder Mike Marrone Richard Roth VANDALISM Mark Bilrnett (TrtLStee) Regan Krutlck (Conduct Comfu. Rep.) . David Marker (Security Comm. Rep.) Eric R. Levine Easton Browne Dave Trager Dave Spivack COURSE, INFORMATION ·· Geri Crane Dori Weiner Jeff Gerst STUDENT HANDBOOK Stu Hannas Mark Derby Roe Borrusco Tom D'Antonio Steve Krisky Ed Lonergan INFORMATION CENTER Dave Eppler Joseph Laurin Linda Owen Janet Wieselthier Darrel Seife Alyssia Levitt A job is like jogging~ It's ·g.ood for your health - but it's no fun to go ·around ln circles. It's much mqre satisfying if you're getting somewhere. So when you're job hunting, you consider your options carefully. How do you find the path that will satisfy you?Ghallenge you? Give you a feeling of accomplishment? Youcaarun onmang_ Daths at·lhe Travelers. And rewards? First, if you've already decided on a career, you look,for immediate -opportunities. Is EDP your specialty? We have one -of the most extensi.ve and sophisticatedoperations in the industry. Engineering? Our professional staff of safety engineers consults with major industries from coast to coast. Mathematics? Our business is based on the expertise of actu;:tries and accountants. Something else? Or undecided? ·Read on. Our 24130 di.fferent job descriptions include ry1ost academic disciplines: business administration, finance, research, economics, marketing, to name a few. Variety like this lets you change paths, if you want to, without breaking your s:tride. Then you look for a company·. that cares about your professional growth and offers the tools and the opportunities to help yo·u realize your potential. We of.fer reimeursement for job·- related courses, for courses leading . to academic degrees or professional designations, and .excellent in-house educational fac:!Jities. And you'll want a company that is not only growing in volume, but is constantly adapting itself to new economic and technical· situations ... one that not only listens to new ideas,. but s.eeks them out. That's The Travelers- one-of the largest diversified .financial insti- tutions in.the eountry. In the business world, you'll find a lot of care~r paths. Some are dead end. At The Travelers. THE TRAVELERS Thegallgo somewhere. Page 11 Student Forum-created Committees AD HOC TAX Alan Greenberg 'Curt Moulton Cathy Johnson RATHSKELLAR BOARD Steve Richards (Forum Pres.) Mike Squier (P.H.C. Pres.) Alan Rutkin (Tax Comm. Chairperson) Stan Geberer Chris Cameron Other Committees HOMECOMING Mark Snapper Peter Conese Terry Evans Dan Marcus Barry Miller Sue Ascher PARENTS WEEKEND Beth Gochberg · Ann Fitzgibbon John Chaloupka Robert Williamson Rhoda Kupferberg Amy Perhnutter Roberta Moss · Continued on page 8 D. K. DeWard, Director, Personnel Dept. TheTravelers Insurance C.ompanies, 1 Tower Sau~re, Hartford, Ct. 06115 /

'' . • j Page.1~ 00NOOBDIENSIS,. January $5, 19\19 .. 6port6 Skaters Win One, Drop Two Sophomore Mark Haley, who has scored nine goals in his last five games, gave his Union College Dutchmen the edge last week as they rallied to defeat Potsdam State, 5-2. · The victory followed a 6-Hoss to Westfield State earlier in the week. Haley had a hat trick against Potsda~, a team which had defeated the Garnet, 7-3,. earlier ~ the season in Schenectady. The Weymouth, Mass. wing is pacing his team in scoring with 14 goals and ten assists. Coach Charles Morrison revised his lines and defense following the close loss to Westfield. He .moved veteran forward Mike O'Connell to defense against Potsdam, ''and it paid off\ Morrison said after the game. He also adjusted his lines to produce. two productive units; one of Haley, Jim Josephson and Bill Mason, and a second consisting ()(Mike Boucher, Jim Anderson and Brian Shea .. The second unit scored Union's other two goals. against Potsdam in the persons of Boucher and Shea. Mike .Merlo continued his fine performance at .goal iii the Potsdam game netting 41 saves for his fourth victory of the season .. The Flying Dutchmen returned to Acnilles Rink and played impressively on Tuesday night, losing to Platt• sburgh State 3-l. Before the game, Union, 4-10 in Division II play, appearedovermatched by Plattsburgh State, 10'-2 in .Division II play (with an overall record cf 13-2)-;:Second in the Western Conference of Division II. Butasthecr;owdofover 1;000 Jan. 25-31 Basketball: Hockey: Swimming: Wrestling: Track: Women's Basketball: Jan. 27 vs. St. Lawrence Jan. 31 vs. Albany St. · Jan. 26 vs. Colby Jan. 31 at Buffalo Jan. 27 vs. Kings Point Jan. 31 vs. Albany St. Jan. 27 vs. Kings Point Jan. 31 at R.P.I. Jan. 27 vs, Colgate Jan. 26. at N.C.C:c. Jan. 27 at Clarkson Jan. 29 at R.P.I. Junior Guard Steve Nearpass witness.ed, the Flying Dut .. chmen can play--and play wen,... against top notch Division II teams. The first period: was quality . hockey as both teams played strongly, The only score was. a reboUnd shot by · Plattsburgh 1 s . _ Rick Goodwin trickling in past Union .goalie Dave Josephson ~t the 9: 41 mark--a shot · which Josephson bad little chance on. For the remaind~r of the period, the. teems s~ated evenly-- Plat~sburgh wtth a. total of seven shots on net, Union with five. The second ·period began sluggishly with both teams having trouble mounting of· fensive attacks. -With 1:3.0 gone by, Union had a three on one break but failed to score as' freshman 13rian Shea's attempt was sticked aside by Platt- sburgh's goalie ,Rick Strack, Then came the penalties, a total Junior Star Mark Haley of thirty• four · minutes •. teams had terrific opportunities altogeTher--twenty-four for· but remarkable saves by both Union (including a 10-:minute goaltenders held· both teams miSconduct to sophomore Jim scoreless-until6:26badgone. by Josephson). With 15:14 left in in the period, andPlattSblU'gh's the period Rick Young blasted a Rick Goodwin scored on .a screaming forty-footer past pretty pass by Ted Westcott. Josephson to give Plattsburgh a With seven minutes gone by in 2.0 lead. Union fought back, the third period, Union ,had it's . however, as senior standout chance with two consecutive Mike O'Connell scored on a minor penalties levied on trickler with assists from Mark ·plattsburgh. Union failed to Haley and . Bill Mason. The score. second period ended with - When the -final buzzer Plattsburgh State on ~op, 2-1. sounded to end· the game, . The third period began with .Plattsburgh had defeated fast end-to-end action. Both Union. 3-1. But. much remains to be said about the superb pl~y of tbe Dutchmen .. Stellar .,per- formances were turned in by co- captains Dean Mathewson and Mike O'Connell as well as by Mark Haley, Jim..JosephSon.apd goalie. Dav.:e Josephson. Brian Shea, a freshman fr9m Holyoke, Mass., continued his quality play .as well, Union's record dropped to 4-11 withthe loss; Plattsburgh's was upped to 11·2. ' · Union's next game is on Friday night at 8:00 PM against. Colby in Achilles Rink. Cagers Split: Stay Eve;n by.JIM COMBS The varsity basketball team played two .very. good. games last week. Unfortunately, very good was not enough to beat Division I Colgate. In a hard fought contest, the Dutchmen came out on the short end of a 76-75 score. A balanced scoring attack_ saw John Krum, Greg Sobocinski, Joe Cardany, and John Jarosak all score in double figures. Sobocinski and Krum each added 9 rebound$. Last Saturday, the Dutchmen had better luck against Platt~ sbu,rg State, winning an, exciting game 63-58. At one point, Union was down by four points, 42-38 - with just under ten minutes left~ But in the course of just three minutes, a 14 point Dutchmen surge highlighted by three steals, two by Joe Cardany and one by Don Fellman, left the visiting Cardinals stunned .and down by ten, 52-42. It was elementary after that. Cardany and. Soboeinski .pumped in 22 and 15 points, respectively. Dan Koubek pulled. down a game high 9 rebounds. If the Dut- chmen can continue to play as well as they have the last four games, the prospect is bright for vastly improving their 6-6 record. Binghamton in :an away contest. The Garnet return home to face powerhouse - St. Lawrence Saturday at 4:00 in a rare af• ternoon start. . The Larries have won 6 of 10 games. St. Lawrence is led by 6· 2 junior forward George Hughes, whose 24.3 points per game average ranks ' -him eleventh in the nation. The other outstanding player for S.L.U. is Drew Skonberg, a 6-5 center, who has a 16.4 scoring average and a 13.7 rebound average--good fQr eighth place in national ranking. Skonberg, a senior, is also eighth in the nation in field goal percentage, shooting at a rate of 65.9. St. Larence has defeated: Swimmers Open Sea_son The JV team went 2..;1 over the past week. They posted a 1 point win over Colgate and toppled previously u~defeated Albany Business College 99 .. 73 before taking it on the chin 78-71 at Siena Monday evening. Tuesday night, Union played Staten Island, Hobart, R.I.T., St. Michael's, Hobart and Hobart, while losing to: Iona, Potsdam, R.I.T. and Hamilton. by DAN MARCUS After one week of com- petition, the Union College Swimmilig team's r~cord stands at 1-1. The initial clash of the young season, on January 17, sawlhe mermen of Hartwick enter the \friendly\ confines of Foote Memorial Pool. It was to be a long evening for the Hartwick swimmers, as the Dutchmen, sparked by triple victories by freshman superstar Chris Meyer and double wins by senior captain Doug Richard- Wanted: Sports Reporters Concordiensis needs responsible and reliable sports reporters with a flair for writing. If you fit the mold and are willing to try contact Sports Editors Matt Kayre and Mark Palomba at the Concordiensis offices on the third floor of Carneigie Hall or Mr. L. Mara in the Student Activities Office. son, swamped them 71-39. In fact, quite a number of spartan performances were turned ifll:ly the Garnet aqil.amen iii thiS meet • .Although the superhuman efforts of Meyer and Rich~rd­ son stole the show, sophomore Andy Berquist, sophomore Wes Jakovic, and senior Marty King shoUld also be commended for their roles in the manhandling of the Hartwick contingent. However, the contest with Hobart ·on the following Saturday was not aU fun and games. The Garnet squad, which consists of only ten swimmers, was gtmned down by the Statesmen from Geneva by a 71-44 count. The Union mermen were up. against a tough squad which had just completed a successful trip to sunny Florida. The Hobart roops were tan, rested; and more titan ·ready .for the spirited, but undermanned Dutchmen. ijowever, the Dutchmen still had a few tricf($ \. up their sleeves. Donned in foot~ll helmets, the Garnet swimmers were ready to psyche out the Hobart squad. It looked as if the trick would work, as the Union medley . relay· team jumped out to a quick lead. The strong Hobart temn prevailed in the end, however, and snuck in for the victory. The remai~der of the- contest was. to provide much of the same, as only Chris Meyer and Doug Richardson could break through with victories. At this point in the season, the Dutchmen mermen are doing as well as can be expected. Paced by Chris Meyer's team .leading five victories, and the fine swin'mling of four year let- terman Doug Richardson, the swimmers can be sure to add at least a few more to their win colwnn. HQwever, the team does need your sUppOrt. Their home next meet is on January 27 against Kings Point. Be there~ Senior Captain Doug Richardson • s t ( f ( r 1 I s ( ·~ ·C ( } I (

