' Garnet and White History The tlnion Class of 1984 has been bequeathed .a noble inheritance. This inheritance is the rich traditions, values, and history of Union College. The Orientation Comrriittee of 1980 believes that ·rediscovering Union's past will generate a greater sense of pride in the college. Discovering \roots\ here at Union ties one to the past, helps in the understanding of the present. From its foun- ding in 1795 as the first non- denominational college in America to the present, Union has served as a leader in American highe.r education. Union has always been a place of firsts. It is now up to the Class of '84 to carry on in the spirit .of the 188 Union classes that have preceded. Did you know that ... Union College,\ is one of two 16- sided buildings_in the Western Hemisphere. (The other is said to be .a Holiday Inn in Nashville, Tenn.).'\The Nott'', begun in 1858, is listed in the United States Register of Historic Places. The inscription, in Hebrew, reads, \The day is short, the work is great, the master presses the workmen.\ Union's radio station, WRUC, is America's first-college radio station. South College, built in 1812, is the oldest continuously inhabited male dormitory in America. Eliphalet Nott was president of Union from 1804 to 1866, the longest tenure of any American college president. He was president of Union when Abraham Lincoln was born .and was still president when he was assassinated: Union was the first. college The movie, \The Way We chartered by the Regents of the Were,\ was filmed at Union. State of New York and the Robert Redford stayed in a original charter can be ~ound in trailer behind South College Jean Pelletierre's office in the during the filming. library. Hans Groote's Kill (the Union's campus, or more \br.ook that bounds through ye familiarly \The Grounds,\ was Old Union's Grounds,\ as the the first in America to have an alma mater sqggests) was articulated architectural plan. named after a Dutch farmer It was designed in 1813 by whose fields covered much of French architect Joseph the present campus. (Until the Jacques Ramee. · -· --mid-1960s it- was t-radition- for Union College is \The Mother freshman to dean up HE_!ns of Fraternities.'' The first Groote's kill during orientatian.) college fraternities in America Jackson's Garden was begun were established right here at in the l1l20s by Professor Isaac Union: Kappa Alpha (1825), Jackson, whose home stood · Sigma Phi (1827), Delta Phi alongside North College. His (182'7), and later, Psi Upsilon toolshed can still be found. (1833), Chi Psi (1841), and Theta behind North College, near the Delta Chi {1847). Gardens. Within the Garden The first gymnasium erected are two Ginko .trees (the first in America, Old Gym Hall, was brought to America from completed in 1874. Japan), remains of a trench dug The Nott Memorial by an ROTC unit during the \unquestionably the symbol of Civil War, and more than 100 species of rare plants, trees, shrubs, and vines. The Universities of illinois, Iowa, Michigan, as well as Vassar, Sfu.ith, and Ehnira Colleges all count Uriion alumni as their first presidents. Union alumni include a president of the United States at least six cabinet secretaries, 13 United States Senators, 91 members of the House of Representatives, 12 governors; 149 important diplomats, 200 judges, and 86 colte.ge presidents. Union's colors--garnet and white,;..were determined by the results of a crewing race with Harvard. Harvard, which also laid claim to these colors, lost the race. Its colors are now crimson and white. Until the mid-1950's freshman hazing was an accepted practice at Union. Freshmen were required. to dress up in their paj arnas and parade through downtown Schenec- tady. At one time there was a path that led to the center of campus that only seniors were allowed to walk on. The path was located. between Lamont House and the Humanities building, and was named Senior Path. Uai9n's first president, John Blair Smith, received a salary- Qf $1,100 per year. He also was a close associate of James Madison in carrying through the Federal Constitution in _the Virginia State ·convention. FitzHugh Ludlow, Class of 1856, was the author of the College alma mater and a reknowned author iQ his day. He - was also a heavy drug user and an expert on their effects, types and ingestion. A library in San Francisco devoted to drugs and their harmful' consequences is September l3z 1980 Volume .110, Number 1 na,med in his honor. Chester Arthur, Class of 1848, succeeded James A. Garfield as President of the United States in 1881. His administration saw the passage of a Civil Service Reform Act and the creation of a new, strong navy in addition to the style and character he brought to the . office. He ascended to the presidency upon Garfield's assassination but--was not renominated for the office in 1884. · In the Memorial Chapel, a portrait of William Seward ( 1820) faces that of Robert Toombs (1828,) as the men faced one another in 1861, when one was the Secretary of State in the Federal Cabinet and the other held the similar position in the Confederacy. Squire Whipple, Class of 1830, the inventor of the iron truss bridge, whose 1847 publication, \Work on Bridge Building,\ was used as a guide in the construction of bridges span- ning the Ohio, Missouri, and Mississippi Rivers, ·truly opened the Western Frontiers for settlement. One of his original iron truss bridges was restored and now spans \the brook that bounds\ behind the rink. Frank Bailey, Class of 1885, was Union College Treasurer for 52 years and has been called Continued on page 8 Saturday's- Orientation Schedule (Revised) G A.M.-Wake up when your mother says, \I can't believe my baby is leaving.\ Get sick feeling in stomach. . 6: 15 A.M.--Dress and get ready to leave. Find place in back seat of car among stereo, posters, teddy bear (teddy bear?! ) , armrest pillow, memo board and everything else your neighbor--the expert who's already gone through four kids in college-told your mother to send with you. Get more sick to stomach. -- 8:45 A.M.-Pass Exit 17 on the Thruway (Newburgh). Ask parents if you ~an get off there and forget Union. Groan when your mother says no, but maybe you can spend winter break there. 9:30 A.M.--Arrive at the famous Fox-Davidson parking lot. Listen to four different 20 year olds direct your parents four different ways. They wear T-shirts with silly rules on the back and beanies on their heads. Your father does not take them seriously and parks where he pleases. 9:45 A.M.-Lug 540 pounds of junk to third floor of Davidson. Observe your· mother fainting when she sees room has lime- green walls and maroon office furniture. Realize you're the fifth person to come. That means . . . Stop thinking when your, roommates wander in. Two have been out sunbathing and meeting old camp buddies. Another has just gotten out of the shower and has cold cream · on her face, her hair in pink c'ilrlers, wears great big glasses and has a housecoat on just like Grandma's. Your last room- mate doesn't even introduce herself but meanders in looking intently at an African violet in a .green potter repeating, \My African violet . . . it was so beautiful and my mother dropped it on the steps as we came up ... and my friend's mother gave it to me and it was so . . . \ Think, \My Gosh, this girl is Loser Patrol.\ Decide never to speak to her. 1 P.M.-sit with parents in Memorial Chapel and listen to the President speak. (Ho Hum) 4 P.M.-say bye to your mother and father; promise to write . . . well, to call anyway. Sit on the floor lounge of North College (why do they call it that?) with 14 other New Students, two more of those people with the beanies and an old man with a pipe in his mouth. Listen to a guy with a checkered blazer discuss his hobbies: playing paddle tennis and touring E~ope. Roll eyes. Listen to a girl complain about her roommate who walks around mubling about her African violet. Roll eyes again and think, \Who IS that girl?\ then realize it is your roommate with the cold cream. Listen to the girl with the beanie ask you your name and forget the an~ swer. 5 P.M.-Eat dinner with these same people. Think, \Who ARE these pe'ople?\ 8 P.M.-Go to your floor meeting and hide behind someone's armrest pillow. Meet group again outside and play some ridiculous game whose only purpose seems to be to exhaust you so you don't realize how terrible it all is. 11 P.M.-Walk to the famous Rathskellar with some girl you meet who seems pretty nice. Get to talking with her. Think, \Wow there are normal people ·Continued on page 3

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS~ September 13 1 1980 Editorials Orientation '80 Do you know someone who hasn't stopped running for the last two weeks, who has been subsisting on generic food since La:bor Day; who has a certain harried look, who's been living out of a suitcase for quite some time and who seems to be wearing a white T-shirt till it's about to walk off on its own. Do you know someone who has endless amounts of en- thusiasm and energy, who has a great deal of pride and respect for the traditions of Union College and who has been tirelessly planning and preparing for a sudden influx of new students since March? If so, then you know any member of the 1980 . Orientation Committee. · Orientation is not simply an event that happens instantaneously every September. It is a program that is actually organized, designed and put into ef- fect by your fellow students, people crazy enough to have begun planning and worrying about these fleeting four days. This insane group of ·16 students has spent all their time doing crazy things such as spending 80 hours choosing your Orientation Ad- visors, ordering 1200 hot dog rolls and similar num- bers of delectable food item.s, searching for plain white sheets to make a movie screen, typing and typing and retyping all of the various lists, booklets, schedules and even those badges which everyone has to wear. And of course all of these items had to be run off on a very sloppy ditto machine covering us all completely with black ink. On the serious side, however, the Orientation Committee has put a great deal of time and effort into the making of a .successful Orientation '80. Along with all the hard work, the Committee members have put a great deal of their hearts into this project and we sincerely appreciate and wish to thank them all for what they have done. Nancy and Lisa Co-Chairpersons of Orientation '80 For Transfers Hi, my name is Cary Monham, and I was a transfer student last fall. I am a member of this year's Orientation Committee and would like to tell you about our program. In particular reference to transfer students, I would stress the importance of attending as many activities as possible. Even though you may have one or two years of college behind you, your stay at Union is something very new. Many of these meetings serve to familiarize the transfer student with academic programs firsthand. Reading a Union catalogue is no substitute for the information you receive at these . sessions. You also have a chance to dire.ct your questions to a faculty member or administrator while the issues are still fresh in your mind. Aside from the academic side of Union, Orienta-tion serves to introduce you to the social aspect of college life. There are many activities which you can enjoy yourself and meet other students. Orientation only occurs once during your career at Union and I strongly urge every student to make the most of it. Editors-in-Chief Julie Isgro, Jim Davis News Editor Joe Maguire Advertising Manager Tamie. DiNolfo CONCORDIENSIS thanks the Orientation Committee for their assistance 1n preparing the material for this issue. Beginning Sept. 25, this newspap~r will be published every Thw-sday by the student body of t1n1on Co~ege, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308. Publications office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc. 11 Division St., Sidney, N.Y.13838; 607-563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Sub- scription price:. 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. -~ ·lfconcor~ienvio ants O :g.ll •• Apply • 1n person at staff meeting on Wednesday Sept. 24th at 8 p.m. Concordiensis Office: Top· Floor Carnegie From the Dean of, Students: Dear New Union Students On behalf of the Office of Student Affairs, I would like to extend a warm welcome to you and invite you to share in the rich experiences of Union College life. College y'ears provide a unique opportunity for both intellectual and personal growth. Intellectual growth occurs through the challenge of the academic programs. Personal growth occw-s through informal and formal structures- . -student clubs and organizations, intramural and recreational sports, fraternal groups, dining halls, residence halls, counseling and advising services, as well as interactions among faculty, students and staff. Union's emphasis on close personal interaction allow.s each of you to fully develop the · special combination . @f · skill&_ and interests you bring to 'the College. I encourage you ·to share them with others to tnake Union an exciting place to grow and-learn. Robert II. Kellett Dean of Students Dean of. Students Robert H. Kellett S1 Iti Ente lectm stand wild- enter books 50•m.i langu Engli SurtnE disap1 until: stumt bewil arrive: scene, ·many count years situati Re Continu here to 11:3C · Rathsk be nott smells: A ~ 0 o~ BOOIC GIFT CAAC

.OONCOBDlliJNSlB, September 13,· 1980 Page 8 . Students and Faculty Form Coriununity It is the first day of classes. Entering an overcrowded lecture hall; you find some standing room in a far corner. A wilcl-eyed, disheveled man enters carrying a huge stack of books and notes and delivers a 50•minute discourse in a language that barely resembles English. He presents an in- surmountable as~ignment and disappears, not to be seen again until next week's lecture. You stumble out of the r:oom, more bewildered than. upon your arrivaL A typical Union College scene, right? Wrong. Of the · many experiences to be en- countered ·throughout four years at Union, this is one situation in which you will never find your*lf. Union is unique. Many colleges and universities sound very appealing in their hand- boOks, but the student's arl,'ival is often accompanied by disillusionment' and disap- pointment. Our catalogue boasts of a superior staff and a small ratio of faculty to students. Union has eve.-y right to boast, for this is exactly what is offered. Union is mote than simply an institute in which to further one's education--it is a community.· Our community consists of both faculty and students, and the surviv:al of our community depends equally on both parties. One can easily sense the. familial atmosphere Revised Schedule Comtinued from page 1 here too!\ 11:30 P.M.--Arrive at · Rathskellar, which,turns out to be nothing but a dungeon that smells strongly of stale beer. In BOOKS GIFTS CAADS the dimness of the three 20-watt bulbs they use to light the place, ·realize that the girl you've been · talking to is yow- roommate with the violets. Push away popcorn from a table and sit dawn. Decide to stay. -136 Jay St ree.t Downtown Schenectady--- 34t& ·2711t this \union\ provides by merely walking around the campus. It is not uncommon to find a heated faculty-student basketball game in the gym, or a political discussion continued · in the Pub after class, or even a professor entertaining students and other faculty mernbe.-s in Cabaret. Faculty-student in- teraction may be .found in each of Union's many facets. Inside as well as outside the classroom, faculty and students relax, learn, and grow together. • An incoming student may feel apPJ;ehensive about seeking out faculty members outside of the classroom setting. It is im- portant to bear in mind that the faculty is just as interested in the student's comfort, growth, and potential as the student himself is. Use the faculty. Take advantage of their office hours. Voice your apprehensions as well as your plans and goals. There are many years of ex· perience and advice available to the student, if he so chooses to tap the sow-ce. It is the responsibility of the faculty at Union to give of their knowledge to insure the · education and the broadening of the students. The students' responsibility' however, is not · merely to take. Expand upon what is given and ,put new ideas back into the college. Only through this give-and-take type of relationship will our com- munity be assured future development and growth as a true \union\ of · faculty and students. \\Union is more than an institution in which' to further one$ education -· it is a. co.m~unity\ Increase your ~ttons front the ·~ . . begt•Jo•ng. ~s a freshman In college, you are lookmg ahead to a good first year. Your ultimate goal is getting that col- lege degree. T<J make that degree more the last two years in Army ROTC. meaningful, you should increase your . Upon graduation you'll he options from the beginning. weanng the gold bars of an Army And you can do that through officer. With the kind of experience Anny ROTC. . Y,ouget in Army ROTC, you're qua]- Anny ROTC offers practical ~fied for ~T!Y. career, wheth~r it's ~il- lea~~rshi.R w!th on-hand adventure JtaryorcJvilian.Army R01 Cprovtdes tramlf:tg. You II g-et ~an~gement 'for lx>th -active duty status with a expenence, whtch atds tn developing starting salary of over $12,000 or men and women to shoulder greater Reserve Component/National Guard \-es(J9nsibilities at C}n earlier age than Duty while employed in the civilian most other graduates. . . . community. . ~u can !Je· part of th1s exat- Get a good start your freshman 1ng. cumc:~lum m t,he ~rst two,years. yea.r. Increase your options from the And Jhere s no obhgat10n. You 'II earn beginning with Army ROTC. $100 a month for 10 months each of tJji\ \eJArmyROTC. Learn what it takes to lead. •' ..

Page 4 As a newcomer to Schenec- tady, you must realize that there is a world outside the Union campu.s. It's worth in- vestigating for its additions to the academic and social life at Union. The most common reason for a student to venture off into the wilds of Schenectady is in search of a restaurant as a change from the Pub or a meal pla~. Perhaps he or she is trying to fmd a bar that is a bit dif- ferent from the Skellar {even though it's hard to believe anyone would want to leave the Skellar behind). There are quite a few good places around to enjoy a meal. After taking a look, one finds that many are also within ' walking distance. Try Sunday's !\iother Ferro's, Geppetto's o; Ingrid's •. which are all very near Umon, reasonably priced and have excellent food. Peter P~use and the Brandywine Du\le: both offer a very inex- pemive and delectable menu for breakfast and lunch. .'\lso close by are many chain restaurants, including Steak and Ale, the Ground Round and Burger King. Sambo 'sis open 24 ho1.1rs a day for those who must eat at 5 a.m. (The more ex- perienced and choosy late-night snackers will tell you that the Brandywine is the only place to· OONOORD11flN818, September 13~ 1980 be at this hour. ) A variety of pizzas and subs are also offered at the Fireside Carm's, Homestyle and Rugby Pizza. Along with excellent pizza, Fireside also offers many other tasty Italian dishes. For those searching for more ele;g~nt (and mo.re expensive) cu1stne, try the Cranberry Bog La Cuisine or the Old Homestead. The area also offers a number of bars. Saratoga is very popular, but there are many closer. A few good ones to try are the Horse's Ass, the Electric Grinch, and the Shipyard. For a little disco with the drinks, there is Sneaky Pete's in Latham or the Rafters in Saratoga Springs. Social life aside for a :nornent, there are some very tmportant places in Schenec- tady. One of the most valuable is the Schenectady Library. It is extremely close to campus on Union Street, and has s~me materials that Union's Schaffer Ubrary happens to be lacking . Getting a library card is easy enough if one presents a College ID and a self-addressed en- velope. The city also has several banks, but most are not 0 pen weekends and are not equipped Continued on page 5 --- enecta _....,.--- ,Jrffli'!!;t'lllt £;Pi\1'·~

Page 4 As a newcomer to Schenec- tady, you must realize that there is a world outside the Union campus. It's worth in- vestigating for its additions to the academic and social life at Union. The most common reason for a student to venture off into the wilds of Schenectad} 1s m 'l';l!·, !1 uf d rt::.ldUl'i:illl <.I.!> d ('hange from the Pub ur a meal pl;1!1 PPr 1 1;1ps ht> ur shl' 1s tryul~! . '·l:J.! o1 :,~::: tL~d .~ .. L.'t·l d~: :,·I c·n: :run. lht :)hdl.u e\t:ll •IJ,,u._;l: 11 's han! to Ldle\'t' ::~· ',\ -;~·: l ·.~~1·;.t til :l'd\ ,. t!.t Skdlar behind 1. Tt • 1ere are quitt· d few guud :il;H'l'S ar(lurHl tu l'lljuy a meal. \fttT !akmg a J,,.,k, u11e fmds. ·hat lll<ln) <tn· alsu wllhlll ·'· :1!l·.1r;.' d·:~~Ltn· t· Tr._ Stlf.Jda\ ·-, \lothl'r Fl'rru's. (;eppetto·s· ut: [:Jgrid'\· '.\hlch are all ven :.v;u l'nlull rt·as•,flctbl:-o prlct•;l .tfld h;l\ t' ··x,·l'!lt:nt food l'l'ter f':tu:--t· ;tnd lht· Hra11dl,\\lllt' t·:-· ,,,! '. !';I.'H,L .1~1\' dl-!l'\.·~,dJ.tl' ilAt'llU : ,; 1,: t dh:d.\< d/1d ~Uillll. \b.,, ].,:-,t· ;;.'> <~It· Illdll) ch<Hil rt·.)t~~uranb. lllllucilng Sled!\ :r: ~ \\·. ·:,, '; r \lilid H .. ur,d <~lid I . · I . . t. • v . . . '' • ,_t', f'- •. :l'- ,),1JJ,·:J• • .' l> •IP'(_'[j ~i •'tll:r_...; ;, 'L1~ :.~r ~h~'-\t' \~h11 iii~i ... t t'd! dt J ;u11. • The Inure ~x­ t\'! :l't •. ··d di.d, l1u1J:-,.\ :att~ntght snackers will tell you that the Brandywine is the only place to OONOORDIENSIS~ September 13~ 1980 be at this hour.) A variety of pizzas and subs are also offered at the Fireside C , ' _arm s, Homestyle and Rugby Pizza. Along with excellent pizza, Fireside also offers many other tasty Italian dishes. For those searching for more t>leg~nt rand more expensive) · ·msm('. tr~· thr Cranberry Bog. La Cuisine or the Old llomPstt'ad. Th·· :rrt•;t :tic;\ ,f!•·r, :r rlurtJtx.·r· 1 tJ:tr'. S;~rat\g\ '' '.'t•n rnpular hut then· an• man~· · lt~~•~r \ ~t'\ t:~H~-i 1:·tH'\ ~~· tr~ art• tht> Horse's Ass, the FIPr·tri(' Grinch. and the Shiryard For a little disco w1th thc dnnks. thl'rt' is Sneaky PetP·~ in Latham or thl• Hafters In S:t-r;ttrwa Sprint~\ Sot'lal ltft• astdt• fur a moment. thne an• some \'ery 1111portant plan•:-; in Sdwnec- Ltdy r lnt· of thl' most \·aluable 1, thl' Sdwn(•t·tad~ l.ihr<ll'\ It is ' •.: t ~·I 'f ' > ! •, l ',' 'd ' o ~ : ' : • 'I ' ! I ... .\·i: t'l' •.. :., l :1.1 ... :-.,~,r:at' \::r'•'rl:tL. ~hd' l'r.: .. n·, Sr·haffLT I :hr:tn !~;tppt•rJ.' t\ !1c laLkliJ!-:. r;,•t!tm: ;1 llhran r·ard !S l'LlS\' ··~lfiiJ!'h •f (\flf' rn:,l'nt> :t ( .. .]] .. ,;;. I! l :1fl'! 1 , f']f :t'ldrr\-'1'•! ··n- ·;r·lopr· llw nt~ .d:-;u li<t:-- -'l'\ l'ral h:mkc. htt~ !lllrq 'lf'r· ~~~~~ \lh'll >\ eekends ami are aut ~qwppeJ Continued on page 5 enecta I r I ( I I l ' ' ! -,

.. OONOOBDIENSI8, September 1~. i980 at To Jay Street - in downtown Schenectady Contfnued from page 4 with 24-hour machines, either. The police station is next to the public library and a post office is nearby, on Jay Street. Those who have the urge to travel to distant places will be pleased to know there is a new Amtrak station just a few blocks off campus, as well as a good bus system for local and long-distance travel. Local schedules can be obtained at the Student Activities office. Regular buses run daily to Albany and the two shopping centers (Mohawk Mall and Colonie Center). The Greyho\).nd people should be able to accommodate the student who wants to explore America or simply return home for a visit. The -Schenectady area has developed a lot in the past few years. There has been a very concentrated effort to renovate many districts. Downtown State Street has been improved, along with Proctor's Theater, where a Page 5 few College concerts have been held. There is also a brand new skating rink downtown, which offers a change from Union's Achilles Rink. A walk through the Stockade offers a close look at the in- teresting architecture and many beautiful houses there. This is a small historic area just west of the campus whose residents have renovated their property without losing its .original charms. Tours are available on weekends. Schenectady also offers its own museum and planetarium. Many special exhibits are featured, including some by Union students and professors. Even though the Union campus will become a very special place, part of every student's experiences should include living and learning about a new place. While every place has its faults-and this city is no exception-schenectady can be a beautiful and exciting place, if given a chance to prove itself.

I. I r I I I I j ' ! . OONOORDIENSIS~ September 13, 1980 otTo Jay Street - in downtown Schenectady Continued from page 4 with 24-hour machines, either. The police station is next to the public library and a post office is nearby, on Jay Street. Those who have the urge to travel to distant places will be pleased to know there is a new Amtrak station just a few blocks off campus, as well as a good bus system for local and long-distance travel. Local schedules can be obtained at the Student Activities office. Regular buses run daily to Albany and the two shopping centers (Mohawk Mall and Colonie Center}. The Greyhound people should be able to accommodate the student who wants to explore America or simply return home for a visit. The ,-Schenectady area has developed a lot in the past few years. There has been a very concentrated effort to renovate many districts. Downtown State Street has been improved, along with Proctor's Theater, where a Page 5 few College concerts have been held. There is also a brand new skating rink downtown, \.\'hich offers a change from Union·~ Achilles Rink. A walk through the Stnl'kadt' offers a dose look at the Ill· teresting architecturt> and many beautiful houses there. This is a small historic area just west of the campus whose residents have renovated their property without losing its .original charms. Tours are available on weekends. Schenectady als(l offers 1 ts own museum and planetariwn. Many special exhibits are featured, including some by Union students and professors. Even though the Union campus will become a ver')' special place, part of every student's experiences should include living and learning about a new place. While every place has its faults-and this city is no exception-schenectady can be a beautiful and exciting place, if given a chance to prove itself_

Page 6 OONOOitDIBNSIB, September Ul, .1.980 I Old and New Unite at Union As you arrive on the Union College grounds, you are en- tering. an area rich in tradition. Union has claim to many \firsts\, both academic and social. However, the tradition of Union, which we are aU proud of, does not bog it down or stagnate it. Union is a college which is progressing and im- proving the quality of its education, · In the past couple of years there have been improvements made in the engineering curriculum. The courses have been updated to meet the changes occurring in the various engineering fields. This process is occuring in subjects in other disciplines as well, so that a student entering Union has at his or her disposal a wide range of varied, interesting, and informative subjects. A new system has been in- staHed and .another major improvement has been. in the computer department. This new system is beneficial to aU disciplines, as there are plans to have terminals in most buildings on campus. This will enable students to work out of , such places as the economics and biology departments. You won't even have to give up your library seat to use a terminal for that last-minute program. There will be terminals there also. Union is now on a campaign to improve its arts department by expanding its programs in theater and music. There are courses offered during the day in which you can learn to play an instrument on your own. There are. also rooms iii. which · you can practice, as well as give your roommates' ears a break. Chanees have occurred in Administration., as well President Morris is starting his second year. The positions of provost and defin of faculty have become the position of vice-president of academics. In student government, the forum has added the .position of vice- president of finance to take .care of the appropriations offunds to the various campus dubs. These clubs are varied and cover almost every range of activity from skydiving to· scuba diving, modern dance to war games to fencing. If you can't find a club you like, Mrs. Marra in Student Activities might be able to help you fonn a new one. Getting involved is a great way to have fun, meet people, and put in some good procrastination. Union, along with academic and social changes, is putting on a new exterior. New painting, lighting, carpeting, furniture have been put in dorms or campus. The Pub's floor has been· redone. The brick in the walkway has been sandblasted clean and the floor retiled to give the Pizza Pub a true Italian flair. After being in the Pub for happy hour, one can answer nature's call in the newly remodeled bathrooms. Alumni Gym, Old Gym Hall, and other buildings are being remolded to increase heating, energy and safety efficiency. Funds are now being collected so that the renovation plans for the memorial to women and Eliphilatt Nott in the center of campus can begin. The lion in back of the library featuring: '·Late night Snacks and. Draft Beer - Qosed. Sundays - Orders. to go ., ~----------~--------------, ! '1.00 OFF: .1 I 1 Pitcher of Beer 1 StromboUi. I I or 1 I 1 Pizzo ~ I wHh thls coupon . · . Jl ----~---------------------- 547 Nott. Street • ,Schenectady, New York • 382-9066 Directly aero~ from the Nott Street Gate Wl Eventua to an end E Yes, studyJ of Union students fi •••• 1 • • =s •• • • • a •• ~~~ •••• i • IS • • • .....

VONOOBDIBN818, September 18, 1980 Page 7, Computer terminals like 'this will soon be available outside the computer center Where. to StudY· and· Relax on Campus Eventually, all fun must come to an end and \IT\ must begin. Yes, studying is an integral part of Union College life. Most students find that they need to find their- own little place to study, since it may be somewhat difficult to study in the dorm rooms. For those who look for a place to stmj.y, there •.•......•...................... , • Ariy large pizza • I SJOO One coupon per pizza. a .. • . V. alue includes sales f!IX • • Expires: Sept. 21; 1980 C ·: . 127 Nott Terrace a • Off Phone: 372-4441 a • • • • • =································ ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • Ahy small pizza. : • s Ole coupon per pizza. a : .50 Valu.e included sales tax. a • _ Exp1res: Sept. 2L 1980 i • 127 Nott Terrace a • Off Phl)ne: 372-4441 a • • • • ........... . .......... .. are many areas available-the most obvious being Schaeffer Library. A lot of people go to the library to do work since there are many places available there. Hence, in some spots, the library becomes a social center (as some of us well know). For the most part, all floors except for the third floor tend to be noisy. If someone has intense studying to do, this is the place to do it. There is an all-night study, open 24 hours a day, in the rear of the library. This too, however, tends to get very noisy except after 1 a.m. If people have a lot of work to do and don't feel like being interrupted, they will usually find a classroom to go to. Humanities and Social Sciences are the most popular spots for classrooms. They are usually open untilll p;m. weekdays and locked up on weekends, except near midterms and finals. At these times, they are left open all week and closed at 2 a.m. During the term, sometimes they can be entered \illegally\ (but Security does do periodic checks). If you happen to leave the room, make sure you don't get locked out while your books are locked inside! It can be a big hassle to get security to unlock the door so you can get your books. Dorms are equipped with lounges which many people find adequate for studying, when everyone else is off working somewhere else. For the person who needs absolute silence when studying, there is always the Schenectady Library, which is a great place to work and is very close by. After that difficult day of classes and studying, we all need a place to relax. The campus has a lot of these places. First, the hardworking student can remain in the dorm in his or hers own room or visit some friends and relax by listening to a stereo and munching out on some popcorn. If this does not appeal to you, in Carnegie Hall there is a game room on the third floor with a ping-pong table, pool tables, and pinball machines. On the first floor is the ever-favorite Dutch Hollow Pub. Here, mixed drinks and beer are available all night, with food available until 8 p.m. It is a very relaxed atmosphere, but often becomes very crowded, especially on nights when there is live en- tertainment. Down the hall from the Pub is the Pizza Pub, which delivers pizzas and sandwic11es. Or, they can be taken into the Pub. The Skeller is open every night and serves only beer until closing. The grill for food closes late evening. It is located un- derneath Security and is one of the hot spots on campus. It is open for lanch until after midnight (usually). It is a great place to sit, and relax and have a few beers with your friends. On the weekends it becomes extremely crowded, but there is a juke box playing music all night long. There are also foosball table and some pinball machines. The Alumni Gym is epen to student use, and there is an office and cage where equip- ment may be obtained. There is a small track, universal .and free weights, basketball hoop& a raquetball court, and some gymna sties equipment. Downstairs there is a swim- ming pool and locker rooms. All of these are available for student use_ The Field House is available, as well. There is an indoor track and basketball hoops. Many students prefer this track since it is much nicer to run on and is a larger track than the one in the gym. In the winter, Achilles Rink is open for ice skating. There are tennis courts and platform tennis courts available near the gym. As you can see, there are a lot of places around campus to relax and or study. Wllichever- you want to do is your own choice, as is where you want to do it.

'. \-- Page 8 OONOORDIENSIB~ September 13, 1980 collegiate crossword 4 5 . 6 8 9 10 11 12 64 (DE ACROSS 1 Climbed 7 Plays at second base 13 Quality 15 Sweet girl of song 17 Marine mollusk 18 Goofs at bridge 19 -Arrest 20 ---- in the bud 21 Dangerous drug 22 Thing, in law 23 Coal mine car 25 French painter 27 \Que 28 Arab republic 30 \The Bridge of San Luis 31 Try or test 32 Natural abilities 34 High points 35 Fibber McGee's ad- dress, 79- Vista 37 Whirlpool 41 Type of trans- lation 45 Of a region 46 Pre-- 47 Ralph - 4 9 Se tt i n g of \ T he K1ng and !\ SO English house . -- 464 State St. we deliver 10 Pet. discount on all regularly priced · merchandise during Sept. with this ad 52 Elephant boy of movies 53 Gel's opposite 54 Sailor 55 Car gear 57 Cartographer's product SS \Arabian Nights\ hero (2 wds.) 60 Inspect 62 Does cobbler work 63 Old Washington ballplayer 64 Delays 65 Soften DOWN 14 Tells the news 16 Certain test quest ions 2 4 I) Act or Ferrer 26 Cuddl er 27 Vane direction 29 Stairway post 31 \Over the Rainbow'' writer, Harold - 33 No, in slang 34 Film director's word 36 Bluegrass instru- ments 37 One of the \Seven Sisters\ 38 American League team Chet Arthur meets with students Union's History Continued from page L \Mr. Union College of the Twentieth Century.'' Among his many contributions to Union was the donation of what is now Bailey Hall, endowments of scholarships and grants-in-aid for needy Students, establish- ment of three professorships and a half million dollar gift to support teaching in the Elec- trical Engineering and Ec..onomics Departments. Baruch S. Bltimberg,_Class of 1946, was the 1977 Nobel Prize winner in medicine. ·- ''You'll be called upon to 'adjust' to the campus society, to 'participate' in its many phases, to exhibit 'school spirit' . . . But a college is a world of aims and not ends. You will make the greatest contribution to Union through the exercise of your individual personality and intellect. 1 Not ..abundant 2 Broadway and - 39 Practical person movie 40 Glasgow headwear We hope this article has demonstrated some of the pride the Orientation Committee feels for Union. In closing, here is an excerpt from the 1961 Union College Freshman Handbook: \Union will be our college for ·as long as we live. Let's hope that we may always have the insight to sit back, reflect, and appreciate what Union has done for us and what we have done for Union. F,or although Union has many strengths in its own right, its greatest strength is its people, a \Union of People.\ hit 3 1979 \Sugar Bowl\ winner 4 Diamond - 5 Black 6 Cotton cloth 7 Discuss 42 Headland 43 Descendant of the first man 44 Neighbor of Syria 46 Marshy ground 48 Poet Brooke 50 Record company Haogen-Dazs .Ice Cream 8 Common Latin 9 Peddl_e phrase 51 Bobby-- ~~J FEINKOST& KONDITOREI 10 Cordoba cheer 11 Fierce feline 12 Be scornful ( 2 wd s. ) Schenectady 374-1888 Phone 346-1090 Famous Brand Names Bass Frye Zodiac etc. 54 Like Julius Erving 56 Lose force 59 Anaconda 61 Prefix for function or practice Tel. (518) 346-7012 10:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. I ~ { i I \· \ /' Catull'S ~estauhant & Pizzeria 140 Fleemans-Brldgo Road Scotia, New York 346·1471 346·1474 Eat ,in or Take out . 175 Jay Street Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 Ingrid Forst, owner Mon.-Thur. 10 am,-12 pm Fri & Sat 10 am-2 am Sunday noon-11 pm Full menu 4 pm-closing Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 \Downtown\ 406 State Street ij ' t.t soc' Delivery Charge t: Q • ..... c :a Reside Saxtor Ameri By Prof. Da position a American here is sc minated a academic that decis. created Fat which hand The boat~ the College system, apr of Trustees is responsii faculty me1 tenure and Prof. Nye,, here in 197' eligible for t this year. He wast( had been November, Faculty Pc: Under the structure, I been replac D'Andrea~ · position of academic s tacted last VI he didn't knc matter to cc F ollowi1 decision, N appeals of tl which . resu: statement of Ma¥, he brot the Presic Board (PAB Because a commitmen board could until the be! consider the Ruth Anne E week .. \We could do at our fir agreed to me she noted. Bt on June 15, tl of Trustees n new Colle system. Am this new syst the PAB. With this Evans sai recommende~ take his cas Review Bo: under the ne such appeals. \But she d until the firs this fall \ N~ \It see~s to that to deh

September 25, 1980 Volume 110, Number 2 Women's Housing Tight 8y_ GALE V ANORE The freshman and sophomore women of Union College faced severe problems with housing for the first time. Inability to house all sophomores resulted In the opening up-of the former c(H)p Bronner House in North College and the conversion of Richmond kitchens and lounges into bedrooms. Meanwhile, all freshman women suites have five people living in them. (For news about how other colleges ar~ housing students, see story on Page 8.) Resident Advisors Bob Brewster and Megan Cummings - Saxt~n, check in_freshmen onfirst day ofOrientation. This year, 95 percent of the sophomore women requested on campus housing, as compared American Stqdies Department: Nye Appeals Termination By JIMDAVIS Prof. David E. Nye, whose position as director of the American Studies department here is scheduled to be ter- minated at the end of this academic year, is appealing that decision t9 the newly created Faculty Review Board, which handles such matters. The board, set up as part- of the College's new governance system, approved by the Board of Trustees at its June meeting, is responsible for considering faculty members' requests for tenure and salary increases. Prof. Nye, who began teaching here in 1974, would have been eligible for tenure consideration this year. He was told that his position had been eliminated last November, ·by then-Dean of Faculty Paula P. Brownlee. Under the new governance structure, Dean BroWnlee has been replaced by Thomas J. D'Andrea; who fills the new position of vice president for academic affairs. When con- tacted last week 1 D'Andrea said he didn't know enough about the matter to comment on it. Following Brownlee's decision, Nye made several appeals of the decision, none of which resulted in the rein- statement of his post. Finally, in Ma¥, he brought his case before the Presidential Advisory Board (P AB). Because of members' other commitments, however, the board could not get together until the beginning of June to consider the appeal, chairman Ruth Anne Evans reported last week .. \We couldn't decide what to do at our first meeting, so we agreed to meet again June 18,\ she noted. But before that date, on June 15, the College's Board of Trustees met and approved a new College governance system. Among other things, this new system did away with the PAB. With this the case, - Mrs. Evans said, the board recommended that Prof. Nye take his case to the Faculty Review Board, established under the new system to hear such appeals. \But she didn't tell rne that until the first week of classes this fall,\ Nye said last week. \It seems to me that she did that to delay the eventual decision as much as possible. The more time that passes before it's made, the more concrete and decisive Dean Brownlee's will seem.'\ Now on a study leave from Union, Brownlee still maintains an office here. However, when questioned about the reasons for her American Studies decision, she declined com- ment. However, Prof. Anton Warde, who last year was chilirman of the since-dissolved Educational Policy Committee (EPC), thinks Dean Brownlee may have acted as she did \to ap- pear decisive.\ substantial strengthening of the academic program.\ She also noted that the number of senior American Studies majors had dropped from 20 in 1973 to eight in- 1979. . So while American Studies would continue to he offered as a major, it would no longer have a separate director. Instead, a faculty member from a related department from which American Studies majors can choose courses, such as English, History or Economics, would head the department. Meantime, the EPC sub- committee studying in- terdisciplinary majors found Ptafessor David Nye, Director of American Studies At the same time she issued that · the major problem the decision, in November 1979,_ plaguing the American Studies the EPC, since replaced by the department was the lack of Academic Affairs Council, support it received from related wnich is charged with for- fields. The subcommittee mulating Union's curricular recommended that each program, was conducting a - department offer one course study of the College's in- each year specifically designed terdisciplinary programs, one to fit into the American Studies of which is American Studies. program. \We were sort of surprised Presently, students majoring when she told us what she'd iR American Studies are done,\ Warde recalled. \It required to take two in- seemed like a premature move. troductory courses--American She could have waited for us to Studies 10 and 11. They must make a recommendation based also take two uppoerclass on our study.\ - seminars and complete a senior Accordingly, the EPC project or thesis. In addition, withheld its endorsement of the they must take a total of nine decision, according to Prof. courses in r~lated departments. Warde. \But Dean Brownlee According to Prof. Nye, didn't take our advice,'' he said. American Studies courses were \She went ahead and moved to first offered at Union in the late terminate the position.\ 1950s. The program became a In a memo dated Nov. 30, the major about ten years later. dean wrote that the addition of a Until 1974, it existed without a full·time American Studies full-time director, as do several program director hadn't present interdisciplinary resulted in \the hoped-for Continued on page 11 to a usual 65 percent. After the lottery last spring tetm, 34 sophomore women had no housing. The number of with- drawals combined with the 14 extra rooms allotted in Bronner and Richmond enabled these students housing by July. On the first floor of Bronner, six rooms were opened: one suite and one double. Students occupying these rooms en- countel1ed problems: \When we got here, the place neeQed a lot of work. They should have prepared the rooms for .us since they knew four girls were going to live here,\ said- Elissa Ganbarg. Problems such as a dirty kitchen, very little heat, a \sticky\ carpet, no mirrors or towel racks, and limited closet space faced the residents; extras such as shampooing the rug, putting up contact paper, and any repairs were at their own expense. Their situation is also unique from other campus residents: \It's not like a suite,\ stated Ganbarg. \The third room is a kitchen.\ Sue Gray said, \We feel isolated from the rest .of North. We're shut off by the door.\ Despite the inconvenience, the suite members recognize the advantages. \This is a lot nicer than some -of the other alternatives,'-' said Aimee Levine. \We wouldn't want to live in West again.\ Sharon Brand reasoned, \The good things about this place come along with the bad things.\ What the women particularly like is having their own kitchen. Some of Richmond's lounges, kitchens and even a telephone room were converted into living space. \You can't deny that something was taken away from Richmond life,\ said Dave Wood, Director of Housing .. ''But this solution has had the least impact on student life, of aU solutions considered.'' Debbie Baertschi, Head Resident Advisor in Richmond, realized that it was the best immediate alternative. \A new dorm could not have been built and ready within a few mon- ths.\ Baertschi observed that, since the majority of Richmond residents are freshmen, they do not miss the kitchens. \It's only the beginning of the term,'' but there . haven't been many complaints.\ Residents of a five-women freshman suite admitted some disappointment. Said one fresh- man, \I was notified of the arrangement in late August. I didn't know what I was in for.\ The women in this suite admit to feeling \claustrophobic\ and Continued on page,s Upkeep Uproar by JOE MAGUIRE A construction project now in _progress in front of Carnegie Hall has \kind of slipped back a little farther than it should have,\ according to Jack Hill, Union's director of main- tenance and physical plant. Mr. Hill made the comment in an interview with Concordiensis early. last w~ek. The con- struction is one facet of the campus-wide energy con- servation program initiated in 1979. Funding for the Carnegie project is coming from the energy conservation budget, not the maintenance budget. The primary goal is to replace uninsulated steam piping with heat-efficient insulated pipe. Another result of the work, which affects pipe from the Arts Building to a manhole just east of Carnegie, is some minor steam distribution relocation. Hill said that there has been \a lot going on\ this summer at Union, and the Carnegie Hall work is one of 12 to 15 projects implemented recently on campus. He cited the high number of projects initiated as partial cause of the delay, as well as confusing and slow bidding for the contract. The director of maintenance ex- pects the work to be completed by early October and is aware of the inconvenience this presented to Orientation. Still, . he feels that waiting another heating season would have been too impractical. Hill's con- tractor has been cooperative in dealing with this problem, agreeing not to tear up the road, thereby creating a detour situation, until after all students had returned to campus and settled into their rooms. A man at the site, who would only be identified as the foreman, said he would begin digging the road' Wednesday, Sept. 17, the first day of classes. He confirmed the early October completion date, but added that . that might change depending on \whenever our pipe supplies come in. It could be a week, two weeks·, it depends.\ Continued on page 8 Carnegie reconstruction in progress .....

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, September $5, 1980 Editorial: Student Forum It's Time To Decide President's Notebook' One of the first matters for the College's new governance system, approved by the Board of Trustees in June, to resolve is'Prof. David E. Nye's appeal regar~ ding the termination at the end of this year of his position as American Studies directo;r. (See story, Page 1.) The decision to eliminate the post was made in November 1979. The reason no final ruling has been made _on Prof. Nye's appeals, Union President John S._ Morris says, is because they have • 'fallen between two systems of governance.'' We don't think that justification remains valid. It'S time to make a decision. Leaving the issue in Umbo any longer seems to smack more and more of sweeping it under the table, in the hope it will disappear. By DAVE O'CONNOR We begin the 19~0-81 academic year at Union with new College and Student. gov:ernance systems, and with a new college position entitled Vice President of Academic Affairs. Union has been, an'd .is, in the process of making itself stronger in the new decade. As this year's President of the Student Government Association (which all full-time Union undergraduates are spokespeople fer the Student Body, we need you to speak to us. The Forwn begins the 1980- 81 year with '\all doors open;\ the possibilities and op- portunities for positive action are potentially great. The greatest chance you have of getting your problems solved, or questions answered, is through the collective efforts of. student .government. Let us work for you. Prof. Nye deserves a firm ruling. And while the question of whether to eliminate or continue the American Studies Director's position should be an- swered quickly, the ultimate decision should take into account all its ramHications. . ·., Without a full-time director, American Studies students won't have .a trained source with whom to consult or get advice about such considerations as graduate schools. Nor will such a professor be available to teach many American Studies courses that are both an integral part of the major and found valuable by non- major students who take them. members), .I would like to The first Student Forum suggest to you several ways in ·-· ·meeting of the year wiU be on which student government can Monday, Sept. 29, at 7.: 30, in help the College and the Student . Strauss Lounge. This meeting Body.- will serve as an orientation to This, in turn, would appear to weaken Union's ability to recruit potential students, especially those considering other small colleges that do offer a more autonomous American Studies department. Mo1leover, allowing the decision to end the director's post stand without examination would set an unfortunate precedent. Because it .appears to have been made rather arbitrarily, any academic post or position would be left open to fall prey to an administrator's whims in the future. Termination of the pdsltion won't bring with it the end of American Studies at Union. But it will significantly weaken it. And that's a big.first step to outright elimination of the program. This year's Student Forum (the elected and appointed officers of th~ Student Govern- ment Association) wants to be one of action. This year's of- ficers have diverse interests Which should result in legislative action and position stands that students will Hotice and benefit from. Many of our greatest accomplishments thjs . year may very well come from your suggestions. The main thrust of my thoughts center in on our need First Debate for your input. To be what we may cover during the year, and all students, faculty, and administrators ate en- couraged to attend.' Come voice your opinions, suggestions, or questions, on topics of housing, food services, athletics, or whatever your pleasure may be. It is important that we develop early interest to get things accomplished this year<. I will try, as best I can, provide news of concern to you as the year progresses. Hope to see you on Monday. Andei-son vs. Reagan . . . . - ourgovernmenttofindworkfor OppressiOn Continues By SVEN PAUL natioNal defense. the youth of American cities. · September 21--Ronald Reagan and John Anderson met in a head to head debate sponsored by the League of Women Voters. President Carter declined the offer to attend. The hour-long debate focused on the issues of in- flation, ei)efgy, defense, urban development, and abortion. Although both candidates demonstrated · a rather mild tone in reference to their positions on key issues, certain differences were still evident. Neither Anderson nor Reagan favored the reinstatement of a peacetime draft. Yet, both candidates did appreciate the poor condition of our present armed forces system and both vowed to make vital changes in our defense programs. John Anderson supported a system of pay increases and bonuses to servicement to maintain a high level of qualified military personnel. · Ronald Reagan emphasized the importance of a strong deterrent force as the best method of maintaining in Turning to the issue of in- Anderson went on to propose an flation, Ronald Reagan stated $8 billion urban renewal that our present inflation is the program. result of poor federal spending A strong break occurred policies. Reagan argued that between the candidates on the the. government is spending issue of abortion. Anderson more money than it takes in and regarded the right of choice as that a personal tax cut would the fundamental aspect in this force the government to tighten issue. He favored legalizing its belt on spending. abortion because, in his opinion, Congressman Anderson does a child should not be brought By SVEN PAUL feel lt is necessary that Concordiensis as a college newspaper, write not onl_st about collegiate affairs but world · affairs as well. My columns in Concordiensis will represent various political standpoints. not favor the tax cut. He stated into the world if he~she is not This past year has witnessed that with a multi-billion dollar wanted. Reagan argued that a surge of uprisings both by and federal deficit, an across the any law must answer to a against the Soviet Union. The board tax cut would be harmful higher law. He feels it is people of Afghanistan were to out country. Anderson favors necessary to determine. , confronted by Soviet military federal budget cuts and specifically when the unborn aggression. This act met with stressed taxing the oil com- fetus can actually be considered scattered wrist slapping tactics panies as a means of alleviating a person. If it is determined that by the western world. Recently, the tax burden from the a fetus is a person, than that Polish laborers, distressed hy shoulders of -the American fetus should be brought to term. poor working conditions in their worker. Above all else, Reagan states, home country, struck out Reagan said that the the respect for the innocent massively against their obligation of finding jobs for human life must be maintained. government. Again, concern city youth should not lie on the These were some issues of the was focused on possible Soviet shoulders of the federal first presidential debate intervention, similar to the government,' rather, the private Campaign '80. The candidates Czechoslovakian workers secto1· should take steps to have spoken out on behalf of uprising in 1968. create tjobs for youth in our their beliefs. Yet it will all mean ./ cities. Anderson disagrees with virtually nothing if you don't Reagan on this issue stating vote. This November, voiCe that it is the responsibility of your opinions, too. Please vote. Subscribe to CONCORDIENSIS Parents, Alumni, Frienc;Js It is encouraging to see .that the western world is realizing the dangers to world peace imposed by the Soviet Union. It is for this reason that, in this· time of enlightened world opinion, we free people should be reminded of past atrocities against human rights com- mitted by the communist reg·ime of the. Soviet Union. I $ 10 yearly Clip the coupon below and' return to Concordiensis, Box 2517, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308 write specifically in reference tq the Soviet invasion and prompt occupation .of Estonia, a small country on the Baltic Sea. In 1940, the independent •republic of Estonia was of- ficially incorporated into the Union of Soviet Socialist \Republics.\ Barbaric tactics were employed by the Soviet rulers to maintain control over the Estonian people. It is estimated that as many as one third of all Estonians were packed into boxcars aHd transported to Siberia. Very few of these ''political prisoners, enemies of the state\ survived for any length of time in their new inhumane environment. It should be stressed that Estonians are not the only people presently struggling under Soviet oppression. Jews, Lithuanians, Latvians, Ukraninians, W.hite Russians, indeed Russians themselves have. all felt the gruesome power of the Soviet Union. It is vital that the free people of the world realize the past atrocities committed by the Soviet Union, and act effectively to curb any future acts of aggression by this inhumane regime. ---~--------------------------~~-~----------~ Academic Affairs Council: • • concor01en516 Editors-in-Chief Jim Davis, Julie Isgro News Editor Joe Maguire, Gale Vanore Features Editor Judi Chervenak ArtsEditor BobFox Photo Editor Rich Sher Sports Editor Rich Hope, Bill Curtin Women's Sports Editors lk Cory Lewkowicz Sports Photo Editor Tom Conway Layout Editor Rachel L. Mj;Uldel Business Manager Larry Leavitt Subscriptions Editor Ellen Burger Calendar Editor Maria Manfredonia CONCORDffiNSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susque~anna Pllblications Inc. 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered m the Schenectady' Post' Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. · · Outlines· Policy As part of the new goverence system, there is a new com- mittee concerned with curricular affairs and educational policy-~The Academic Affairs Council (A.A.C.) The students representatives to this com- mittee are: Steve Auerbach, box 203, phone---377-2953; Joe Cardany, box 2022, phone-382- 9582; Nancy Gagliano, box 1917, phone--383-6583; Hannah H. Schwartz, box 1777, phone--377- 2078. AAC is specifically charged with \the formulation and recommendation of plans and policies for curricular development . . . '' Fur- thermore, ''The Academic Affairs Council shall devise a working plan for academic development, encompassing both a general direction for the entire academic program and appropriate goals for depart- ments and programs.\ The AAC has two standing sub-councils, one on the stan- ding of students and one on graduate studies. It may delegate specific tasks to other, temporary, sub-councils. Meetings _ are , open to the entire campus community, and are being held this term in SS 110, Mondays at 12:30. Minutes of all the meetings are published regularly in the Campus Chronicle, and the student representatives may run an article in Concordiensis. Prof. Ro Wri

- lt ;o )- \ )· n e if I, s If s n 1'1 n J , D .OONOORDIENBIB, Beptemb.er S5., 1980 Page 3. Prof. Roben Shadet: Writing About Russia Robert Sharlet, profeSllor of· science here, iS co- of and contributor to The Union Slace Stalin, a •sy::;tt::IUCI ic assessment and' lin1tertlret;atilon,lf .... \ politics,· lec~on<>mllcs, and society from the d~th. in 1953 to British editioa will soon be uuu,\u\'\'' by Macmillan Ltd. of_ ,....,\\~~···· The bo~k was also the International· and Mfairs Book Club as main selecticm for May. · In a recent , re-v.ilnv in the Post, The Soviet Stalin was cited .as .. ,u,,,._,, in viewofsuch events as Soviet invasion of and the SALT U •\''\'\\ations. The bookj'. ac- to reviewer 'S. -~·,eon.r>rtl'lr Starr, vice president acade.mic affairs at 'Tulane -Jh,;uoot'C!I1ru, ShedS light On the of U.S.-Sov-iet relations examining the llistorical cedents and theoretical dations of current Soviet The Soviet U11io11 Since Stalin chapters on Stalin's (based on SoviE!t archives), Khruschev's style· of ll!le:actersn until his ouster in on many aspects. of mo •• A\~'~m .. 's \adm.inistration the Stali!ldst legacy of current foreign policy. Other chapters~ including essay o:n the con- reflectiQn ·of post- talin reforms, cover con- porary Soviet econorni<: : problems, the future of agriculture, aqd the Brezhnev . leadership~s dilemma of trying. to reconcile central control with ethnic minority aspirations ·in the multinational USSR. Moscow University Law School in the 1960s, and received a cerUficate in foreign and comparative law from Columbia Law School in 1975. Sharlet, who has been a Inernber of the Union College faculty ·since 1967, spe_cializes in Soviet . and East European politica and law. In addition to his latest book, he has- also published three previous books, .including Pashukanis: Selected, Writings on Marxism and Law (coeditor, 1980), The New Soviet Cont~titution of 1977 (1978), and The Soviet Legal System and Arms Inspection (coauthor, 1972). A native of Boston, Mass., Sharlet resides in Schenectady at 1023 Park Avenue. Professor Sharlet, political science professor and a~:~thor. Forum Begins Year He has also be.en awarded a number of honors and grants from such institutions as the· Ford Foundation, the United States Arms ,control and Disarmament Agency, the American Council of Learned Societies, and most recently in May, from the National Endowment for the Humanities. A visiting professor in the past at Yale University and the ·university of Wisconsin, Sharlet has also . given guest lectures at Cornell, Princeton, the University of North Carolina, Moscow University, and most recently, at George Washington University in Washington, D.C. Since 1972; he has been affiliated with Columbia University's Russian Institute and the Research Institute on International Change, in the capacity of research associate. A graduate of Brandeis Univer&ity with a B.A. in American Civilization, Sharlet received his M.A and Ph.D. in political science from Indiana University. He also attended By JOE MAGUIRE Dave O'Connor is tired of waiting. He has been waiting for a new campus governance system for a long time. He has also been working toward that goal for quite a while. For the last two years, Dave has held a seat on the Student Forum. Durin:g that time, the Forum's major concern was the .formation of a new governance system. This year's Student Forum was elected under the new system, and Dave O'Connor is the new Forum President. The first meeting of the new Forum took place Monday night at 7:30 in Carnegie Hall and the president wanted to make sure that no one was looking back. \We're all done with gover- nance, that's it, there's nothing else we can do.\ He expressed his concern that each member of the Forum understand that this is the year that the .system will be put to test. \It is our responsibility tO' use the system\ effectively, and to work together with what he called the \three major student committee-s:\ The Finance Committee, the Committee o.o Committees, and the Student Affairs Council. O'Connor noted that the Forum's primary constituency is the student body, but he called for greater Forum in- volvement with Union alwnni, administration,. and the Jocal community. A different meeting schedule was int,roduced by the president. He plans to hold bi- weekly \open\ meetings and weekly \executive\ or closed meetings. He made it cle.ar that all students will be encouraged to attend these open meetings and voice their opinions. The first of the year is this Monday at 7:30 in Strauss Lounge. The Student Forum is designed not as an executive body but as an interactive body. O'Connor expects most of the proposals made in closed session to be reiterated in the open meetings. He wants the closed sessions to be used to \hash things out.\ In other business, the Forum expects to conduct a meeting this Tuesday night at 7:30 in Strauss Lounge for the presidents of all on-campus clubs. The purpose is to review the process by which these clubs can get money from the Student Activities Budget. This budget of $190,000 per year is While other stores are selling you copies for 7 to 20 cents each, at Schatz's new Copy Center, in their newly remodeled Mohawk fv\aiJ loca- tion in Schenectady, you can copy 1 to 500 sheets Tor -tP/ 2 cents each. Plus you can have it sorted, collated and batched stapled if needed. A true 1:1 copy and that's only the beginning. It's the perfect solution for term papers, reports, or special projects. ) The only Copy Center \open seven days a week. Only At Mohawk Mall, Schenectady 37 4-3563 the major responsibility, and the source of mest of the strength, of the Student Forum. Sherry Laitman, senior class · representative to the Forum and the Student Affairs Council, proposed a program which she hopes will start tomorrow. She plans to have a table set up in Carnegie Hall with material from the Federal Board of Elections for students to register to vote. Senior Trustee, Ed Lonergan, is hopeful that students will come to the open meetings ready to participate, and warned the Forum members not to enter the meeting with the misconception that they would be \on a stage performing\ for the students. O'Connor con- curred with this view and ex- pressed his hope that many freshmen would attend the open session, since election of two freshman Forum represen- tatives-at-large is scheduled for winter term. The Student Forum doesn't want the freshman class to wait around for things to happen at Union College. Dave O'Connor has been waiting for them.

Pa,ge 4 OONOOBDIENSIB, September S6,. 1980 .. - . ' D'Andrea Assumes Post <·j When Thomas J. D'Andrea leadership in faculty selection beli~ves that Union must 'it assumed the newly created post and tenure decisions, prepare continue to attract a high of vice president for academic and control the academic ·caliber faculty. affairs Sept. 1, two sets .of files budget, and develQp and With this in mind, D'Andrea had to be moved _.into his evaluate • the College's admitted that he~s \a little Administration Building office- academic programs. . concerned about faculty those of former Provost C. ''Most colleges are talking salaries, especially for junior· William Huntley and thos~ about declining enrollments and (non-tenured} members,\ and belonging to Dean of Faculty surviving the 1980s,\ D'Andrea may move to see if they can be Paula P. Brownlee. said in a recent interview. \But raised., so that Union will That's because- D'Andre::t 1 S Union is a unique place,~and I'd continue to be ·able to bid position was created to replace Uke to see it not only survive, competitively for new and assume the responsibilities . but get even stronger in the next prefessors. of these two posts. decade.\ , Vice President for academic With full responsibility for In particular, he noted the affairs, D'Andrea, whe had Vice President of Academic Affairs, Thomas J. D'Andrea Union's academic .programs, strong engineering and liberal .previouslyservedfor more than D'Andrea will provide arts progr,ams that are offered seven years as provostand dean here as assets. \It's unusual to of faculty at Haverford College find a .place that is known for in Pennsylvania, will be the both, as Union is.\ second-ranking administrative To bolster the College's of- official at Union and will head ferings, D'Andrea has the College in PresidentJohn S. Optional Courses Offered Learn how to write a com- puter program, invest money, listen te music, aad manage your time this fall. Seven weekly non-credit courses, ranging in subject from in- terpersonal relationships to accounting, will begin at Union next week. 20 ether courses dealing with business and professional skill, science and the Arts, and Personal Development will also be of- fered by the College's Office of- The Freshmen: Graduate Studi,es and Con- tinuing Education. Seven ene- day programs will also be available. Literature and Money are the ,topics to be covered in two courses which begin Tue~ay, Sept. 30. \The Turn of the British Novel: Dickens and Conrad'' will be offered 7: 30 to 9:30 p.m. on ten Tuesdays. Course Instructor will be Patrick Allen, an adjunct Associate Professor at Union. Vital .Numbers By· GEOFFREY KORS After reviewing 3,364 ap- plications for admissions into the class of 1984, Union College enrolled 540 new students. This years freshman class is made up of 323 males and 213 females. This 60-40 ratio is similar to last year's: While the male-female ratio was similar to that of last year's, a substantial difference was recorded in the number of students at Union that were from New York State. In 1983, over 70 per~ent of the freshman class lived in New York. This year the figure is down to 58 percent. 26.5 percent of the freshman hail from New England states. The remaining students are from various other parts of the country. One per- cent come from foreign coun- tries. When comparing the number of freshman that attended BOOKS Gl FTS CARDS private prepatory schools in relation to public schools, it was found that 68 percent of the new students graduated from a public high school while 28.5 percent graduated from private prepatory schools. The remaining 3.5 percent students · school types were unavailable. Academically, this year's class found 68.7 percent graduating in the top fifth of their high school class. 12 percent graduated in the second fifth, and4.2 percent in the third fifth. There were no students enrolled that graduated in the bottom forty percent of their high school class. The remaining 15.1 percent were not ranked. Median SAT scores for the class of 1984 were 630 on the math and 560 on the verbal. Overall, this year's freshman class is very similar to the class of the year before, with the one exception · of the decline in students from New York State. -136 Jay Street Downtown Schenectady--- 346 ·271\ From 7 to 9 pm on six Tuesdays beginning Sept. 30, \Investment Alternatives in an Unstable Economy\ will be held. This course is divided into two three-week sessions entitled ''Real Estate Investments\ and \Securities and Financial Planning.\ These may be taken separately or as a complete program. What happens in the heavens is intriguing, yet mysterious, to most of us. But occasionally an important astronomical event will be widely discussed-such as . the discovery of a super cluster of Galaxies which casts some questions on the \Big Bang\ Theory of the Creation of the Universe. Current astronomical events and discoveries wiH be discussed in \Frontiers in Astronomy\ which begins Oct. 23. Course instructor is A. G. Davis Philip, Research Professor of Physics at Union and an astronomer at the Dudley Observatory, where classes will be held. Among the other weekly courses are \Introduction to Computers and the Basic Language, \Introduction to Print Journalism,\ Developing Your Career Dptions and • 'Making Interpersonal Relationships Work.\ There is something for everyone from the businessman to the homeowner to the classical music Lover at Union this fall. recommended that the newly - Morris's absence. The deans of creat.ed Academic Affairs graduate studies and student Council study the College affairs, and the directors of the curriculum to see if it's right for Computer Center and the the times. College library will report to \The courses offered should hiru. be the ones that will best C. William Huntley, who as prepare students for the provost was Union's senior situations they'll face after administrator, has returned to graduation,\ D'Andrea said. teaching in the Psychology \Technology plays an in- Department. He served as creasingly important role in our proyost for two years. Dean of lives, and Union's mix of liberal Faculty Paula P. Brownlee has arts and engineering is suited to gone on a study leave. . provide the kind of knowledge D'Andrea, who served as this requires.,'' chairman of the Psychology A solid curricultun also must Department at Haverford, has. be one that the faculty supports also been appointed a professor and is pleased with, D'Andrea of psychology here. He will noted. •:If a student comes and . teach as his administrative asks why Freshman Precep- · responsibilities permit. torials are 'given, we should be ' At Haverford, D'Andrea, a able to give him good reasons.\ native of Keewatin, Minn., To be .able to do this, a oversaw expansion of the \systematic curricular review\ student body from 700 to 1,000 is necessary from time to time, and attainment of co-education. he added. He is also a professional Along with a well-rounded musician, playing percussion and relevanf roster of courses, and tympani. the new vice president also Continued on page 9 WELCOME FRESHMEN! Forever Young Hair Design 741 Eastern Avenue (short walk from College} 382-8490 Specialist in Precision Cuts for Women & Men Henna, Perms, Frost, Cofor Rea·sonable Rates Open Tues-Sat--Fiexible Hours Call Now For Your Fall Style! Many To Choose From!- Any and all students interested in helping with HOMECOMING '80 are invited to attend the Student Homecoming Committee Meeting, Tuesday, September 30th, at 5 p.m. in the Banquet Room ·Of Carnegie Hall. Bring your . thoughts and ideas for the 1st Annual Homecoming Parade, i.e., floats, bands, etc. Graduate School of Business Administration A Representative of the Graduate School of Jlusiness~.Administration will be on campus Wednesday, October 1. 1980, to disc~ss the Duke MBA Program. Interested students may obtain further information by contacting the Placement OHice ResE Ded The A Cent er-E area re! with aJ collectio1 Adirond mally dE weekbef The R1 open wet appointJ teres ted should c• 370-6278 Head libr in Adiron• formation Uijion C S. Morris the CE organize I servationi, Schenecta donating Center f: private designed ,----- Eve Com \- ............

-- rtust high :ire a ittle ulty nior and n be Will bid new· ·mic had :nan· lean lege the tive ead n S. s of lent the the . to as 1ior I to ~gy as t of has as )gy 1as sor vill ive a n., .he )00 Jn. 1al ion ! 9 OONOORDIENSIB, September B5, 1980 roun am Research Center Dedicated Here The Adirondack Research Center-established to provide area researchers and writers with an easily accessible collection of: works about the Adirondack region--was for- mally dedicated at Union the week before graduation in June. The Research Center will be open weekdays and by spec~al appointment, Persons In- terested in using the Center should call the library at (518) 370-6278 for detailed in- bookshelves to house the research materials. Among the historical documents and displays in- cluded in the Center's collection are: --A state land map, highlighting recent acquisitions of the Forest Preserve and delineating those acquired with the assistance of the Adiron- dack Conservancy. The map will be updated every Six months; --Maps and reports illl,IStrating the wvrk of the Adirondack Highway Council, including information on scenic attractions in the Adirondack Park; -Maps and publications of the Adirondack Park Agency in- dicating land planning and zoning achievements. Other maps highlight wilderness areas and wild rivers for canoeing. . A special e:mibit on display at the Center contains a series of thiri, transparent sections of Adirondack r.ocks, prepared by Vincent Schaefer, area sdentist and inventor. Schaefer characterized the Adirondacks Stockade W·alkabout The 21st annual Stockade ''Walkabout,\ a house and garden tour of Sc~en~ctady_'s historic Stockade district, will take place this Saturday, Sept. 27 fr@m 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., rE!in or shine. This tour includes a visit to the Schenectady County Historical Society, with displays and a Stockade movie as well as four historic churches and six historic homes, representing Dutch, Federal and Victorian architectural styles. Tickets for walkabout, co- sponsored by the Stockade Association and the Schenec- tady County Historical Society, at $5 each, will be available at St. George's Episcopal Church, 30 N. Ferry St.; the First Reformed Church, 8 N. Church; and the Thistorical Society, at 32 Washington Ave. For ad- ditional information, call the Historical SOciety, at 374-0263. Health Center Established as the \friendly mountains.'' A nonprofit consultation Additional reference service designed to aid local Head librarian Jean Pelletiere materials are needed for the health care agencies and health in Adirondack Research Center Research Center collection planning and policy itself, as are funds for operating organizations has been formation. expenses and for the con- established at the Union College UIJion College President John structfon of special display Health Studies Center. S. Morris praised the work of cases. The consultation service the Center's principal Persons wishing to donate center Director Eugene S. organizer, noted con- books or other documents Schneller said, \will allow our servationist Paul Schaefer of should centact Ruth Anne students to apply theoretical Schenectady. In addition to Evans, assistant director of knowledge of the health donating materials to the Schaffer Library. Contributions delivery system to practical Center from his extensive may be sent in care of Carl situations,. and it will offer the private library, Schaefer George, associate professor of 'local health care community designed and built special biological sciences at Union. both faculty and student ex- pertise and technical resour- ces.\ Union's Health Studies Center, part of the College'S Institute of Administration and Management, offers .graduate programs in health systems management, planning, and policy. Its students prepare for careers as admini'Strators, planners, and policymakers in such institutions as hospitals, clinics, health maintenance organizations, consulting and management corporations, and health planning and regulatory agencies. The types of services available, Schneller said, in- clude help in the areas of statistical and computer analysis, health economics and finance, and organizational development. Problems may be those unique to the organization or those of a more general nature; and they may be an- ticipated concerns, as well as questions that have arisen in the past. The cost to the participating agency for the consultation service will be largely the cost of research materials and faculty time, Schneller noted. , 464 State St. we deliver Page 5 us ....... Editor to Speak on Poet WaUord Davies of the University College of Wales, editor of several books about poet Dylan Thomas, will speak here at 8 p.m. Tuesday, Sept. 30, in the Humanities lounge· !second floor). His talk entitled \Dylan Thomas: The Poet in His Chains,\ is sponsored by the College English Department. Among his many published works, Davies has · written a book entitled Dylan Thomas and has edited Dylan Thomas; Early Prose Writings, Dylan Thomas; New Critical Essays, and Dylan Thomas: Selected Poems. Davies' articles and reviews have appeared in such publications as Essays in Criticism, the Times Literary Supplement, the Durham University Journal, and Tbe Anglo-Welsh Review. He is a member of the Welsh Arts Council, for which he is chairman of the panel for awards to writers, and a member of the adult education committee of the Independent Broadcasting Authority of Great Britain. Schenectady 374-1888 ~ ---------------------------------------------1 :-----------.-----------------.----:ci_jp & SAVE THIS PAGE l DUTCH HOLLOW PUB SPECIALS I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Every Thursday is \Specials Night\ beginning the Thursday: ' $2.00 for a pitcher of Sangria of $3.00 for a silver glass bottomed mug, free refills ·and you keep the mug. Limited supply so come early . Every Friday is \Buff~t Night\- from 5:00 - 7:30 p.m. This week: Otinese Food Buffet - all you can eat for $4.00 Shrimp Egg rolls Chicken Chow Mein Egg Drop Soup Fried Rice Beef & Stir Fried Vegetables Fortune Cookies Have a Mai Tai with your Dinner for only $1.50 Evening Entertainment, Friday, September 26 9:00-2:00 p.m. Contemporary Guitarist- BOB }JAIN Every Saturday is \Beef and Brew\ from 5:00~7 :30 p.m. Sit down and enioy our seafood, steaks and special burgers Free pitcher of beer, carafe of wine, and salad bar with every meal. - - ·--------------------------J ----------~-------------------------------- REMINDER Every Tuesday is \Happy Hour\ from 9:30-10:30 p.m. The Pizza Pub is OPEN Dmft Beer 2 for 1 Most Drinks 75c Coming Thursd~y, October 9th \JEREMIAH WEED NIGHT\ 1 00 proof Bourbon Liquor J Free Delivery of Pizzo, Subs, Soda & Matt's Beer Key rings for everyone l Deliveries from 4:30- 1: oo a.m. Chances to win free T-shirts and \Weed\ mirrors l Slices only soc in the Shop I · · · I 1 SPECIAL SURPRISE GRAND PRIZE · 1 -------------' .,., ....... _ ........ -- ----~ ... .-------------- -------·----- ---------------------- ..... --------

Page 6 OONOO/eDIE:NS18, September B6, 1980 ~ ~~~ , .'\~~9\-~ '• Mall Association 1 ' By JULIE ISGRO During the past years students who have foWld their_ way to downtown Schenectady have been somewhat disen- chanted :by what they have encountered there. Starting this fall, tl\e situation may become quite different due to the efforts of the downtown mercha11ts and the Downtown Schenectady Association (DSA)-a division of Area Calendar CONCERTS September 27 -Jazz musician, Lionel Hampton, will be per- forming in concert at the Gloversville High School Auditorium at 8 p.m. This concert is sponsored by the Fulton County Arts Council. For further information, caH Barbara Smith, 725-0691. EXHIBITS September 14-0ctober 5-The State University of New York at Albany will host two exhibits entitled The Sculpture of Hugh Lownley and Invisible Ugbt. Gallery hours are 9-5 Tues. through Friday and until 8 p.m. on Thurs.; Saturday and Sunday from 1-4. For further information, call 457-4901. FILMS October 2--Tbe Sound of Tmmpets, an Italian movie with English subtitles, will be presented at the Albany Public Library as part of the Friends of Albany Public Library Famous Directors Film Series. The film wHl be shown at 8 p.m. For further information, call 449- 3380 or 869-9317. MUSIC September 29-The University at Albany's Music Council will present Equilibrium, a dance and percussion duo, in the Recital Hall of the Performing Arts Center. The event will begin at 2: 30 p.m. For further information, call 457-8205. THEATER September 22-27-The Empire State Youth Theater Institute will present \Finocchio\ in the main theater of the Egg at Albany's Empii·e State Plaza. Showtime~ are September 22~26 at 10 a.m. and September 26-27 at 7:30 p.m. For more in- formation, call 474-1767. TOURS September 27-The Hudson- Mohawk Industrial Gateway is offering a new tour of Urban Weeds and Wildflowers. The tour will begin at 10 a.in.. at WaShington Park on 1139 2nd Street in Troy. For reservation, call 274-5267. October 1--.The Hudson- Mohawk Industrial Gateway is o£fering a tour of deEeer and Son, an historic manufacturer of basebails and softballs since 1889. The tour will beginatl0:15 a.m. and participants are to assemble ,in the parking lot of deBeer .and Sons, 5 Burdick Drive in Albany. For reser- vations, call 274-5267. TRAINING PROGRAM October 4-The Schenectady Rape Crisis Service is offering their annual fall training to women who wish to become crisis intervention volunteers. The first of eight sessions will he held on Saturday, Oct. 4, from 10-2 p.m. For more in- formation, call 346-2266. the Schenectady Chanber of Commerce. · Until five years ag(), all of the st()res in the downtown area were independent merchants. They were losing business and revenue quickly-a sitl:lation due in large .part to the two local malls, Mohawk and Colonie, which quite obviously had much more to offer. There was little the Chamber of Commerce could do unless the merchants worked together. In 1977, the mercha11ts in the 400 Block (whe~tl Proctor's Theater is located) did just that. The 400 Block Developmental Corporation was formed and the initial plans for revitalization were begun. The cm;poration realized that they 'had to do 1 mor.e than give the area a \facelift.\ As chairman of the corporation, Legrande Serras commented, \We had' to do ' pedestrian walkway. But the upper level will be completely climatized ·by huge windows which. allow a view of the lower leveJ. from almost any angle. Glass enclosed stairways and escalators provide easy access to both levels; The canal will be a rnaj.or body of -water con- necting the · east and west sections of the mall. There are plans for both boats iiJ the summer and ice skating in the winter. · ''We're spending a lot of money a11d it's going to be a very unique situation,\ Serras said. Many businesses, local and national, . obviously agree because over-75 percent of the shops have already been leased. Many stores which are available in suburban shopping centers wiU now come down- town which has been almost \We had to d#J something d~tferent to succeed\ something different to suc- ceed.\ Since that time they have been able to ·secure aid from the city and start the project. Now that the construction has bee11 underway for almost a year, it is obvious that they have dome something different. The area is being completely revitalized, not just r.ebuilt. The idea of the project is not to change everything but to retain the charm of what.it used to be. No buildings have been replaced by new ami modern strtretures. Instead, the only construction has beent<> join the old buildings to form a down- town mall. The lower level will open into a manmade canal and empty for at least eight years. Many area business firms will be based here as well. There will also he one section just for restaurants and fast food chains. The idea is to give people a greater choice of their favorite places. There wiU b~ a Sweets & Nuts, an Omega Pizza, and possibly a take-out Chinese restaurant to name a few choices. This type of arrangement is a first for the area. Serras stressed that everything is being run exactly as any other shopping center would be run. The 400 Block complex is owned by five principals, of which Serras is one. Every store. has a signed ------------------EXTRA-EXTRA ----clip rn sa SALUTES ' SCHENECTADY COUNTY COMMUNITY AND UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS WELCOME BACK· GO LLEGES DAY Thursday, October 2 6··10 p.m. ·SEE THE NEXT ISSUE OF CONCORDIENSIS FOR ~OUPONS AND DETAILS 6:oo- 9:ao·P.M. STATE STREET (S.C.C. to 500 STATE) JAY STREET * ~OVING ENTERTAINMENT * MERCHANTS' SPECIALS 8:30 - 10:30 P~M. FRONT OF CITY HALL * BLOCK PARTY * DANCING * BED RACING * EAT (THE SUB) TO THE BEA.T (Union challenges s.c.~c.) * FRISBEE (s.c.c. challenges . Union) AND CAMPUS GIVE-AWAY DRAWING. CITY HALL - 9:30 P.M. Student I.D. required for all specials and events. EXTRA-EXTRA-EX\l'RA-EXTRA lem Sllll are; pari cha1 Al proj Schi seer is sj mar busi PI part mall closj it ho of ' tickE also Insi1 chan retai days grea thee balc1 Di1 the 1 anotl built. of ar Bush skati: . of sh hOUSE calle1 •Ta1 A lo~ See s ,, s c c

·oONOO~DIEN818~ 8epte.mber SS~ 1980 Page 7 R . li . eVIta zes lease which it must follow. And, surprisingly for a downtown area, there will be an 18()(kar parking area provided free of charge to the public. Although Serras termed the project \the best kept secret in Schenectady,\ it won't be a secret much longer. Completion is scheduled for Oct. 15 when many of the stores and businesses will move in. Proctor'S Theater serves as part of the anchor point for the mall. Two years ago it was closed to the public. Last week it hosted a traveling production of \A Chorus Line.\ 14,000 tickets weresold. The theater also has been revitalized. Inside, as little has been changed as possible. It still retains the charm of its former days when it was one of the greatest Vaudeville theaters on the east,coast with its elaborate balconies and high ceilings. Directly across the street on the corner of Jay and State, another structure has been built. This will be the same kind of arrangement. In it 500 Ter Bush and Powell workers, a skating rink and an assortment . of shops .and boutiques will be housed. Center City, as it is called, will not only serve as an \ ~ • Talent Search for D.S.A. Schenectady Merchants are loolcing for Union. · students 'to ENTERTAIN on College Dar Any and All Talent Wanted See Lorraine. Marra in Student Activities by the 2?th . \ , 0 union st. ,........ .... ~· tfl < ¢ 1 0 ~ ~ ¢ f> '$ tJl 0 important connection between the shops on Jay St. and State St.,. but also as a source of healthy cofnpetition for its counterpart across the· street. Together, these im- prov.ements form the begin- . n~gs of what could be one of the most unique and distinct shopping areas around once completed. The benefits of having it just down the street from Union could well prove to be a .great asset to both the students and the merchants. Lib.erty St. • i - (:::) Cl) ...... tl· ~A~TRAK STATION <IS t/)~ ~ . state st. ·l -1 - 1 ,, BUS STATION sccc L - l Schenectady City Hall College Day Coming Soon By JULIE ISGRO Each fall the Downtown Schenectady Association sponsors a College Day for students from Union College and Schenectady County Community College. This year it will take place on October 2nd from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Area officials are especially hopeful for student participation especially because of the im- minent completion of the downtown renovations. The event will run all day and be geared toward students. There will be a sidewalk sale held by many of the area merchants. Discounts will be offered to students with College ID's. Next week's Cone cordiensis will carry special offers from the merchants. A. union st. POST PUBLIC pedestrian walkway will be set up along Jay Street from City ·· Hall to State Street. Proctor's Theater will be open for those who wish to explore the area. Students will also be able to investigate the new skating rink where free passes will be offered. A folk group is scheduled to play on the corner of Jay Street and State in the late afternoon. Later, college talent will be featured in front of City Hall from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. A talent hunt is being conducted through Lorraine Marra in Student Activities for anyone ·who is interested in performing. UNION·-· COL~J:GE - • . LIBRARY tn OFFICE lpOLlC'E; ~ I I sTA'ItoN I ciTY I ' . HALL Franklin st .. I MUSEUM . • - I 1' I CENTER. CITY 1-i 1-i IV f-4 ....... ...... ' 0 z L ~I · • ;r---- .... ;::::::::!state st. - PLAZA 400 l l co. COURT HOUSE ~ • CO. OFFICE BLDG. . , . t;>. ~ ,.., IV \C' q; ~ -~ -

' ' Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, September SSJ 1980 Colle{:{e Hou~in~ Shortage: Nationwide Problem Students rettuned to the New· York Institute ·Of Technology this fall :to find all the dorm rooms fulL Eventually 27 of the studentg....aU Qf whom has dorm room reservations- had to be \temporarily \housed m what the student paper call .. \ YMCA-run donn in a prostitute-ridden secHon ·Of :Vlanhattan,\ .a t wo-.hour corrunute from carnplls, Across the country at the University of Caliiornia- Berkeley, the situation was just as -bad, though students were moved to temporary lleusing a relatively-short 20 minutes a way from classes. It's happening ~tween the ..:oasts, too: collegedonn rooms are .filled to capa~ity and beyond. \Tripling\--placing three students in rooms designed for two-has become a common practice. but still hasn't satisfied the surprising student demand for on-campus housing. \Nearly all schools have 100 percent occupancy, if not more,\ notes J·erry :Quick, president of the Association of Colleges and University Housing Officers. a group representing 550 ad- ministrations. Quick says this fall's dorm shortage is tbe worst he's ever seen. DeiiUllld is at record levels. Become a college cam pus dealer 0 Sell brand name audio & video components. Low ;prices- high profits. No investment necessary. For details C()ntact: Southern Electronics Distributors Inc., 2125 Mountain Industrial Blvd., Tucker, Ga. 30084 ... or call t()ll free-800- 241-6270 and ask for Mr. Leibowitz. POOL HOURS: Mon.-11 :00 a.mo-3 :30 p.m.; Tues.--11: 00 a.m.-3:30 p.m. and 7:00-9:30 p.m.; Wed.--11: 00 a .m .-3:30 p.m. and 7:00-8:30 p.m.; Thurs.- -11:00 a.m.-3:30 p.m. and 7:00 pom.-9: 30 p.m.; Fri.-11 :00 a.m.- 3:30 p.m. and 7:00 p.m.-~ 30 p.m.; Sat.-12:00-4:()0 and 7:00 p.m.-8:30 p.m. and Sun.-1:30- 4:30. BABYSITTING--Experience with faculty children. References availal>le. Please ~·all Christy or Julie D'Andrea. 377-5658. BLOODMOBILE-October 2 & .~ at 11:00 a.m. to 5 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Sign up in Student Activities Office for appointment or just.appear. SENIORS-Sign up for your pictures in Student A.ctivities Office. Dates: Sept. 29o0ct 3·- M:,tM 4'~~ Most housing officers end up sending students to nearby motels until on-campus space opens up. The trouble is that on- campus space isn't opening up as rapidly as it usually does. The University o.f Con- necticut, for example, knows from past experience that about 75 of the students who reserve on-campus space don't show up in the fall. But this fall there were only 35 no-shows. Housing executive Quick dwells on the convenience and popularity of dorm living as reasons for the record demand for on-campus space, but then readily notes the dramatic increase in the.costs of living off campus may well have driven students into the dorms. Large university towns, moreover, tend to feel the political influence· of academics, and sometimes that leads to strict zoning and building standards. Those tough standards have, according to Norman, Oklahoma city councilman Charles Schindle~,:, ·brought off-campus housing development in Norman to a standstill. Existing housing units can thus charge more, and get away with it. Yet most administrators won't build more dorms. \In one, two, three years, the Gurdens; Oct. 6, 9, 10, 13, .14, 15, and 16-Strouss L.; Oct. 7 & 8 in Conference room A. General meeting for all those interested in working on layout, photography, business etc, etc, on Garnet. Please attend meeting Monday, September 29 at 7:30 in Conference room A in Carnegie. The Academic Opportunity Program offices have been moved again! Mitzi Glenn, Director of the program, and Maxine Meadows-Shuford, Asst. Director, can be found in Baifey Hall, Room 101. Sigma Phi is offering a 10 meal-week meal plan. For more information about that home- cooked taste, call 382-9225. Do you want to eat for free.? Be a waiter at Sigma Phi this term and don't pay a cent for your meals, call 382·9225 for information. Sigma Phi still has two single rooms available for fall tel'IJI. Call 382-9225 and ask about our reasonable rates. FALL TERM SCHEDULE FOR LITURGY -september 28- Rev. Don Ophals, Pastor of St. Francis de Sales, Troy. SINCE 1937 1115 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY PHONE 377-2642 or 382-8684 Hornes1yle Cooking Salad Bar Included with AIJ Pasta & All Dinners R:easonable Prices Plus A 10. percent Discount To Union College Students with IDs Sun.-Thurs. 9:00-10:00 p.m. Fri. & Sat. Till12:00 .. enrallment downturn is .going to be significant.'' Quick explains. \None of us are rushing out to build more dorms. We just won't have the students to put in .them.'' Yet the -vast majority of administrations maintain conservative housing policies, even to the point of Ignoring a HUD loan program from campus housing. A full $69 million ,is earmarked for helping calleges build new or remodel old hollSing. Only 400 schools-out of some 3400 in the U.S.-have bothered to apply for the money .. They figure, according to Quick, the overcrowding is \a short-term problem.\ Despite a threatened student lawsuit charging Towson State with breaching its housing .. contract with its students, most students are coping with the situation quietly. Quick has heard \hardly any\ complaints from the students in what he calls ''expanded occupancy areas.\ But there may come a point at which overcrowded housing conditions inhibit enrolhnent recruiting. Upkeep Up,roa~ Continued from page .1 0 Although both Hill and the foreman agree_ on the com- pletion date, Hill warns that- some of the paving and curb work may have to wait until spring. The energy conservation budget is being handled by John R. Hauser, Union's Vice President of Finance. The money comes from a loan of $2 million from the New York State Dormitory Authority. Housing Shortage Continued from page 1 cramped, but are optimistic about changes winter termo · Witl1 a present 105 percent on- campus housing, \The real need is of adequate space for 150 to 200 people,\ said Wood. Making a new room is Wood's and Dean Kellett's decision, but requires John Hauser's (Vice President .of Finance) and physical plant's approval. r New York University VisitsYour Campus to Answer Questions on the M.B.A. Program Locateo in lhe heart of the Wall Street area. New York Univer~ity·~ Graduute School of Bu~ine~~ Administration ha~ trained student' for ex.ecut ive po~itiom for over 60 years. A Fecent survey by Standard & Poor\ ranked New York Univer~ity number 2 nationwide a~ the sQurce of graduate education for chief executive' in major companies. On Wedne~day, October I, an admissions officer will be on campu-, to di~cu'' the quality and flexibility of the graduate busines~ program. Check with the Office of Career Develop- ment for ~ign-up schedule and further information. New 'rbrk Umver,ity \an affirmauve act Jon/equal opportunity m~tltutwn BE AN OFFICER OF THE MARINES · No on Campus Requirements! Guaranteed Flight Training! Financial Assistance Available! Paid Training During The Summer! Tuff Physical Training! YOUR MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION TEA~ WILL BE ON CAMPUS ON SEPTEMBER 29-30 FR,OM 10 am TILL 2 pm IN CARNEGIE HALL ) Sl st m PI M bl S1 M OJ P: - th b~ of at m to irr sp 01 pr H4 es of th• 191 br UI Cl: l Yc br, 19: ph Ci1 tee: thE Ht JoJ th( an de• a I op SU) He ] S. nu;:~ Min bel Spr Spa Sat1 and is OJ adn Tl will Per: sum City Ore Corr s

OQ~OOEDIJ!1:1!1SIS~ September SJ5.# 1980 Page 9 arbJ ' . . . ' ' ' '.. ' ' ; ' =. . . . - . . . ' ' . J : ' ; culture Henry Paul Visits Union By DOUG SILVERSTEIN It is not uncommon for supergroups to breed super- stars who find success on their own. We witnessed the Beatles produce pop star Paul McCartney, Blind Faith yield blues star Eric Clapton, and Steve Windwood ami Dave Mason emerge from Traffic. One recent defection is Henry Paul, once a leading member of spite of numerous offers from existing . banes and uncertain success. The gl'oup released their first album in !979, called \Grey Ghost.\ The album successfully rode the charts for three months and represented the~ fi.rst real taste of achievement for the ' newly formed group. The band has since gained the reputation as an excellent concert group in addition to the superior content of their studio work. On report said' that the Henry Paul Band was \simply getting better at every stop.\ The brand of music combines rock, blues, country, and PO!i>. · the otttstandio.g .southern rock band, the Outlaws. After years of· struggling, Henr,y Paul is able to write and perform material which \I wasn't able to do before because of po::;sible image lock-in\. He calls the split a ''musical split.\- The Outlaws continue to ~find prosperous success, while the Henry · Paul Band has established a reputation as oqe of the better concert bands in the country. On October 17, 1980,- the Henry Paul Band brings their energetic show to Union College's Memorial Chapel./ After the release of \Grey Ghost,\ the band toured im- mediately, because as Henry puts it, \we need that live ex- citement to keep going!' After literally hundreds of shows, they entered the studio once again to record their second disc, \Feel the Heat.\ The album is more of a rocker then the preceeding album, with energy flowing through every song, Perhaps more important, each member of the band contributed a song to the effort. The album, along with the single, has received com- mendable air time from top stations across the country. The Legend rof Smythe Joh.nBlairSmith House. Isn't that rigl!t behind the Registrar's office? Wrong. There :is no l!mger a Smith House em the Union College Cam!>'US. Tbe building is the same but tlle name has been changed. Eustas P. Smythe House has been born. The eighteen inhabitants of Smythe Eouse have decided to reveal the legend of a great American: Eustas P. Smythe. Eustas was the Johnny Appleseed of his day, a pioneer. He crossed this great country of ours spreading a disease that may very well have been a catalyst in the invention of penicillin. A beaver hunter by .trade, Eustas often spent his leisure time with a beer in hand. We at Smythe House plan to ' keep up the tradition. Watch for us. Henry Paul was bon~ in New York and raised in Florida, breaking intothe music field in 1970. He formed a band that played locally in New York City, and after they split, Henry teamed with two members from the band and two new members, Hughie · Thomassom and Billy Jones, to form the supergroup, the Outlaws. After three albums and six years, ~Henry Paul decided he was incarcerated in a musical shell and needed an opportunity to portray his superb talent. He formed the Henry Paul Band in 1977, in Do not pass up the op- D'A.I1drea Assumes Post portunity that the Concert Committee is offering in this - Contin.ued from page 4 Friday night performance of Although he has been here the Henry Paul Band. While less than a month and is still \Feel the Heat\ burns _up the getting settled, D'Andrea said charts, Henry Paul andh1s crew he likes Union's atmosphere. w!ll blaze the ~nio~ campus Last week, for example, ~e and with an unrelentmg fire. his wife, hinnea, attended a Cabaret performance. With his musical .background, it's possible that D'Andrea just might participate in such a production sometime in the future. · Fall Arts Fun an~ Things to Do SARATOGA-The third an- nual Saratoga Festival of Miniatures Show and Sale wtll be held in the majestic Hall of Springs located in the Saratoga Spa State Park. The event, Saturday, October 4 at 10 AM and Sunday, October 5 at 11 AM, is open to the public with a 2.50 admission charge. · . The two day sale and show will benefit the Saratoga Performing Arts Center, the summer home of the New York City Ballet, The Philadelphia Orchestra, and The Acting Company. The 1980 Miniature Festival at SPAC will once again include the \Miniature Village\ a delightful and intriguing display of miniature homes and rooms to view up close. Features of the 'village' will include a replica of the mid-19th Century Octagon house in Delanson, a variety of regional historical homes and buildings, the Pepperwood Mansion and display of the world's smallest emerald and diamond errings. All shrubbery, trees and bushes will be living plants throughout the 'village'. A variety of select -~·-·~· ~ .... ~ :~;,;,:,. ~\:~\,~:.~-~*~~.tt:.:;·,_i'\ :~<~~;:: < ' . ' Sophomore Peter Lovls walks 800 miles ~rattsmen and dealers will have scale repr()ductions for sale for the discriminating buyer, in- cluding furniture, dishware, pottery and glass work and an assortrne.nt of other 'little things.' Food and beverages will be available d11ring the two day event, with the proceeds to benefit SPAC. For additional information a bout· the 1980 'Saratoga Festival · of Miniatures, call 518-{)84-9330. ALBANY: The Egg Cinema Series, Remakes and Sequels, by .JUDICHERVENAK This past summer, sophomore K.A member, Peter Lovis, went backpacking some 800 miles in an attempt to ''meet America.\ IIe started out at Fort Knox and eventually ended at Bangor, M:aine. • Peter be1ilan his endeavor on July 17th, the evening of his graduation from Company E, 15th Battalion of the ROTC Basic Camp in Fort Knox, Kentucky. Eis travels too_k him to such places .as Nashville; the east side of til-e Great Smokies; Rich Square, North Carolina; Williamsburg, Virginia; Manhattan: New Jersey; Westchester County; Newport, Rhode ISlall.d; Cape Cod; Boston an<l. finally, Bangor, Maine. A twelve-llour d{IY en- compassed thirty miles of back- packing witll a forty-five pound backpack. Equipment included M •- I,• \ _,. -- ,..,.,. ',.,.~ '\\1 featuring such movie classics as Gone With the Wind is one of the exciting events scheduled at the Empire State Performing Arts Center in the Empire State Plaza this fall. Dance, drama, . and music events are scheduled throughout the month of October. Information on these and on future events, ticket prices and group rates are available· through all Com- munity Bo:x Office locations and the Egg Box Office, P.O. Box 2088, Albany, NY 12220; (518)- 473-3750. a jungle hammock with mosquito netting and a roof. He brought only four days worth of clothing but stopped in at a laundromat when necessary. After such a great amount of walking, it is surprising that Peter did not get any blisters. Peter's reason for his journey was that \this was the best way I could get to know America and its people. I wanted to meet those people who I might someday be representing and protecting. I also did it for the experience. \I met hundreds of people who were· really gen.erous and hospitable,\ he continued. For example, strangers offered him lodging and beer when they saw a storm was approaching. Peter felt that the trip was a success. \I went ·with high_ hopes of people's attitudes and they more than met my ex- p~ctations.\ ,. World's apart- You and I.· You're all settled and I'm a drifter yet. I wish ... I wish that I could hold you- just once- so I could feel settled, even if it's just for that one moment. By Demetra M. Pontisakos New Chairman By BOB FOX According to former acting chairman Hugh Wilson, \it took blood, sweat and tears,\ but the search for a new chairman of the Union Arts Department has succeeded. The new chairman is Dr. Daniel Robbins. Dr. Robbins received his B.A. in Museology from the University of Chicago, his M.A. from Yale, and his Ph.D. from New York University. Prior to coming to Union, Dr. Robbins was a visiting professor of Artistry at Dartmouth. He has also taught at Harvard, Yale and Brown. Dr. Robbins has been associated with a number of museums, including the National Gallery in Washington, D.C., and the Fogg Museum at Harvard, as curator and director. Dr. Robbins is the May I. Baker Professor of Art History at Union. His field of expertise is cubism. We at Union feel honored by Dr. Robbins' presence, and would like to take this op- portunity to welcome him, and wish him the best of luck. First of the Term Cabaret Sept. 25 TONITE f 1st Act Mike Zanta 2nd Act De metra Pontisakos M.C. Danny ·Cuozzo

- \ ' . Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS~ Septem~er B6~ 1980 6porte • > > • ' • • ' • ' •• > • ' > .' ' ~ < ' • • - ' ' • A View from the Stands: Teams Cool For Flag Chase Foot•all Managers c N,eeded By DOUGSILVERSTEIN As pennant fever floods Los Angeles, Houston, and Cincinnati, the players have found numerous ways to ease the tension. On a recent clip on NBC's Game of the Week, this conversation ensued between Dodger Manager Tom Lasorda and top relief pitcher Don \Stan the Man Unusual\ Stanhouse. When asked why he supported the DH rule, Stanhouse said it was because the rule would cut down on his manager's 1 Lasorda) mistakes. Jokingly, Lasorda handed Stanhouse a $100 fine. Stanhouse replied by agreeing to pay, but first asked Lasorda for change. By far, the calmest Dodger was Steve Garvey, whom Don Rickles calls \Mr. Clean.\ Supposedly, Garvey is the only player who washes his glove after the game. Teammate Jay John- stone calls Garvey \The Boy Next Door.\ Garvey recently battled out of a slwnp by watching the \Gong Show\ each morning. The rationale was· that he could feel better about his ineptitude by wat- ching bigger fools on TV. The Houston Astros are not inunune to the craziness. At the top of the list is pitcher Joaquin Andujar, known to have \Saturday Night Live Charisma,'' has been known to; shower after a game with his clothes on, build a house with 19 windows, and sing \Happy Birthday\ to hiniself in May, although his birthday is in December. The. back-running Cincinnati Reds are known as a con- servative club, but · not Tom Seaver. After learning that · Tony Kubek, NBC announcer, was celebrating his childs birth- day, Tom annmmced a surprise birthday party .fot that evening on the air. Kubek's partner Joe Garigiela called it a \Polish Birthday Party.\ EXTRA POINTS. . . Tracey Austin once did her year's worth of math homework in three days, to allow, herself more time to practice tennis ... Bernie Carbo gave up a hair- styling career to join the Pirate's for the permanent drive. He should be a welcome addition to a stormy Pirate clubhouse. He was never one to make waves ... Tony Greene showed his class off the football field as well as on the field. After nine seasons, he was cut by the Buffalo Bills, then thanked all the secrataries he'd known by sending flowers to each one. . . Cosmos forward Andranik Eskandarian was described as a \certified Good Guy, winner of their (the Cosmos) 1980 award for being the most cooperative player.\ This recent report in \Newsday was in honor of the Cosmos forward who came to the Cosmos from Iran. . . Macalester College, a small midwestern college, recently broke a 50 game losing streak in football with a dramatic 17-14 victory over Mt. Senario College. The ironic coincidence is that the game was played in St. Paul, Minn., and Macalester's losing streak had broken the previous one held by St. Paul College of Virginia .. .Hub Kittle recentlv became the ·Atfention Women! There will be a meeting for all interested in women's basketball SEPTEMBER 26, 3 P.M. in the Block U Room of Alumni Gym Any questions call Lynn Barta at 6284 Haagen-Dazs Jce Cream f~J FEINKOST & KONDITOREI Tel. (518) 346-7012 10:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. 175 Jay ~.treet Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 Ingrid Forst, owner ~f\THLY DELI6HTS WHOLE FOODS FINE COFFEES& TEAS tOO's of HERBS (one of the area's largest selections) WHOLE GRAINS BREADS &COOKIES BOOKS ON: 'XXJKERY & NUTRlTION 162JAYSt. (5181372-7580 only pitcher to pitch in six different decades when he pitched for Springfield in a minor league . game against Iowa. He retired the two batters he faced ... If you want to know who will win the presidential election,. watch the World Series. In the last seven series, each time an American League team won, a Democrat entered the White House. J.ohn Anderson's chances are linked to the inception of a third league, both are debatable. A-ll Interested Contact ·coach Wirth at Alumni Gym Collette Joins Hoop Staff very successful over the years,\ said Collette. · Collette, who has a Baehelor of Science 'begree in Physical Education, was a fl!mr-year member of the basket ball team and was captain of the Springfield hoop squad. as a seilior; spent two years on the track team and played volleyball, soccer, softball and water polo in the intramural program. He was also given the Steitz A ward for desire and - effort as a senior on the basketball team. Thomas A. Collette of Sanford, Maine, has been named assistant basketball coach and intramural director at Union College it was announced by Athletic Director Dick Sakala. Collette, a 1980 graduate of Springfield College, replaces Bill CarmodY., who has accepted an assistant basketball coaching position at Providence. Collette, has been . the assistant varsity football coach at Longmeadow High School in Massachusetts and basketball coach and counselor at the Pine Tree Basketball Clinic at Colby College. Women~s Soccer \I have big shoes to fill,\ said Collette in referring to the excellent job Carmody did the past three seasons while at Union. \As Intramural Director I think it is very important for students to be active on the athletic fields as well as in academics. That feeling comes from the philosophy I learned at Springfield, \total mind and body.\ , As assistant basketball coach of the jaycee team, Collette is intent on preparing players to help Union's varsity program in future years. \Coach Scanlon has been here for awhile and has proven to be \ It's complete! Nutritious and appetizing, a full meal you don't have to take time out to enjoy ... because Domino's Pizza won't keep you waiting! By CORY LEWKOWICZ Union. College, which became .. co-educational in 1970 and boasts nine varsity sports available for women since 1975, will add women's soccer as a club sport for this season. John McNamara and Joe Hurley will be co-head coaches this year. A total of 44 women turned out for the teain's initial meeting, and McNamara is confident that between 25 and 30 women will remain on ·the squad. Sophomore Jane Webb is the only woman who has any college experience; last year she played four games as the goalie for the men's junior varsity team, and did not give up a goal. Five other women on the roster also have competitive soccer experience: junior Megan Cummings has been in organized soccer for 10 years; Just give us a call. Withing 30 minutes a high protein dinner will be delivered to your door at no additional charge. So kick off a really great evening at home ... call Domino's Pizza ... we're #1 for rushing! Fast, Free Delivery 127 Nott Terrace 372-4441 Our drivers carry less than $20 Li_mited delivery area <ei Copyright 1980 oamlno's.PI:zza Inc. sophom~re Margaret Simmons played four years of varsity ball in hfgh school and helped lead Fayetteville-Manlius to . a sectional championship as . senior; Felicia Wilson, a senior, Mary Beth Foisy, a sophomore, an.d Dina Pliotis, also a sophomore, all played four years in high school soc(:!er. Coach McNamara played~his college soccer at W ortchester State and has been the assistant men's soccer coach and head junior varsity coach at Union for the past three seasons. Coach Hurley played varsity soccer at Williams' College, where he was also the assistant women's coach his senior year. The Dutchwomen's season will start with a scrimmage at Albany State on Sept. 22, before hosting RPI on Sept. 26. Wh head Colle devel one tl with, Here not b Dutcl best, seaso Coacl cant1 in.Un succe an e:ll attra locate draw geogr focal If h: of wh him, footba Wirth every 28-5-3 Hills C Pa. ; alma High; coordi 15-2 a~ Brow1 corps earnin five of was tl arounc the pr· Wirt PMA., ten chi Cathol where backer After : receive the Un This marke~ interco Union team.l Critter victory games CollegE first ga Union Unive1 champ: ended' score o disapp< up. After betwee: strong Amber: time S< scoreoJ the sh game, spectat were,lo more ' previou The t the m the. true playing psyche team,' vantage Union minute: last ga1 of im Critters day af organiz The · team w ago by~ Drew L desire student: togetheJ regular

5port Wirth ByED 'I:.,YNCH When Joe Wirth accepted the head coaching job at Union College, he was determined to develop a quality football team, one that couldnot only compete with, but defeat its opponents. He realized that his task would not be easy; th~ record of the Dutchmen has been dismal, at best, with only two winning seasons in the past 25 years. Yet Coach Wirth is confident that he can turn things arolll}d. He sees in· Union the \ingredients for a successful program .. ; it offers an excel'lent education and an attractive and strtegkally located carnpus, enabling it to draw students from a wide geograplrlcal area making it the focal point of Schenectady.·\ If his record i.s any indication of what we may expect from him, then the Union College football program is on the rise. Wirth has left winning records everywhere that he has gone\: 28-5-3 as an assistant at South Hills Catholic High in Pittsburg, Pa. ; 28-8 at his high school alma mater, North Catholic High; 23-14-l as defensive coordinator at Colgate, and 43- 15-2 as' defensive coordinator at Brown. BroWfl's d·efensive corps were s!mply awesome, earning a national ranking for five of the seven years that he was there. IIis efforts turned arou.nd a club that .had been 8-46 the previous six: years. Wirth was born in Etne, PMA., the secomi youngest of ten children. He atended North Catholic High in Pittsburg, where he played center and line backer at a hefty 150 pounds. After Serving in the army, he received a flll.l scholarship to the University of West Virginia, CONOORDIENSIS, September !5, 1980 His · Weight In Gold from which he graduated in 1960. He is now married and resides in Barrington, R.I. and has six children of his own. He comes across as a hard. workrng, quietly intense in- dividual with a colorful sense of humor. He is not a status-seeker and has '110 delusions of gran- deur. However, Wirth really believes that he can develop a superior foorball team within the Division III framework, where athletic scholarships are prohibited and studies take priority over sports. Wirth feels that Division III ball should be given as much respect as any of the big time Division I schools •!because of the kids that are attracted to Division III ball; theY, are generaHy down to earth and level-headed.. They tend to be very well-rounded and have a concern for their school. These kids are more interested in forming relationships with their recruiting weekends, in which candidates and their parents visit the school, meeting with coaches and various faculty members. Most of the recruit's time is spent with Union students who Wirth refers to as \the coUege' s best selling· point.\ He initiated off-season workouts, which met three times a wekk for about an hour. These sessions served not only to familiarize the team with Wirth's new system, but also enabled the players to get to know him personally. _ Quickly he earned his teams respect through his concern and enthusiastic intensity. Wirth's formula seems to be hard work, emotion and confidence. He takes pride in his organized hard-hitting practices, in whieh very little time is wasted and every squad member is thoroughly used. Wirth talks of O.T. \emotion and confidence\ as being the key to a winning team, \a team must believe that they can win before they actually do,\ he said. This is the primary element that Union has lacked over the years, he added. They came to a point :where they almost expect t.o lose to Williams, Bates, Colby and Middlebury, and, they do lose. It is this frame of mind that Wirth hopes to transform into a winning attitude. He hasdriven them endlessly, hitting four da'ys a week and twice each day during double sessions. while keeping injuries to a minimum. Wirth seems to have developed respect for his team. as well as a certain rapport, which seems very conducive to winning. Senior linebackers Dan Leffhas this to say about Coach . Wirth, \I respect him as a man and as a Page 11 . coach. Off the field, he is a man that you can really talk to, and on the field he is a coach who will make you a winner.\ As a result of this relation- ship, we can expect to see a swift, multiple-front defense that will do a great deal of stunting. The offense will be basically a run-oriented unit with a sprint-out passtng attack. The emotion will be high and in time .the confidence should develop. The 1980 football schedule should result in major improvements in the teams performance. However, it will not. be a true test of Wirth's leadership. It takes a number of years t6 establish a truly ex- cellent football team, .but whether the Dutchmen win or lose, Joe Wirth is the best thing that has happened to this program in a long time. coaches, teammates and classmates ... theyplayball for the sheer enjoyment of the game.'' Wirth retained the ceaching staff of the Cohill N.F.L. Notebook· • Administration but has revamped individual respon- sibilities. This list includes AI. Bagnoli, Chuck James, John Lovett, Fran Meagher and newcomers Mark Whipple and Jay Hickey, both recent graduates from Brown University and all-Ivy League players. Wirth considers the job done by this graup of assistants as singly \excellent.\ Wirth and his staff have worked diligently throughout the winter and spring in recruiting prospective student-athletes. This effort has been centered around By DAVE RUDEN The present NFL season is now three weeks old and the outlook is for an extremely exciting and competitive season. Here are some general observations to keep in mind for the remainder of the season: --Unless somebody breaks his legs, Detroit running back Billy Sims is a shoe in for rookie .of the year. -Until their offense blends and they add at least three or four players on defense, the Jets will be no better than a .500 team. Thompson who proved he could beat the world champions last week. --The most competitive division in the NFL is the AFC West. -Until the New Orleans Saints develop a facsimile of a defense a .500 record is their most realistic goal. -Unless Coach .John McKay devises a way for The Buc- caneers defense to put points on the boarrl, Tampa Bay will never beat the good teams in the league. forrnance varies from week to week depending on what side of the bed Steve Grogan gets up on. -Predictions for the playoffs: NFC East-Philadelphia NFC Central-Detroit NFC Central-Detroit NFC West-Los Angeles Wild Card-Dallas AFC East-Buffalo AFC Central-Pittsburgh AFC West-San Diego Wild Card-Houston Look for an-all Pennsylvania Super Bowl between the Eagles and the Steelers. Ultimate -Look for a surprising year out of the Minnesota Vikings. While their defense is in a rebuilding process the offense, under the leadership of Tommy Kramer is explosive. Kramer has Ricky Young coming out of the backfield and Ahmad Rashad is one of the best receivers in the league. Ted Brown will be their next 1,; ; ; yard rusher. --Never bet on the New England Patriots. Their per- Nye Appeals This past Saturday, Sept. 20, marked the ·beginning of the intercollegiate season of the Union College Ulimate Frisbee team. Unfortunately, the Crispy Critters failed to register a victory in any of the three games played at Hamshire College in :Massachusetts. The first game played by the young Union team was against the University of Massachusetts championship team. The game ended 'a little lopsided with a score of 22-4. The Critters were disappointed but refused to give up. After a short rest period between garnes, Union made a stronger showing against Amherst College with a half-' time score of 4-4, and a final score of 12-8 with the Critters on the short side. During this game, it was noted by many spectators that the Critters were .looking a lot sharper, and more confident . than in the previousgarne against U. Mass. The third and final game of the mini-tournament showed the· true quality of the Ultimate playing by the Union team. A psyched Hampshire College team, with the home field ad- vantage, squeaked past the Union players in the last minutes of play to win 10-8. This last game stressed the amount· of improvement that the Critters had made during the day after only a wekk of organized practice. The Union College Frisbee team was started three years ago by alumni Mike Pollock and Drew Lianopolous, who had a desire to .create a Club for students interested in getting together to play Ultimate on a regular basis. , The \team\ is actually a club that is student run and organized. T~is year's president, Chuck Figur has the responsibility of scheduling intercollegiate games, and running efficient and produc- · tive practices. This is opposed to most other Union teams that are subsidized by the school, and have fa<;ulty coaches and advisors. The team meets every afternoon at 3:30 on the field in front of Richmond House to practice throwing, catching, and running: The two-hour practice includes doing laps, drills, · playing scrimmage games and running wind sprints. A br.oad cross-section of the college community is represented by the twenty-five odd members of the team, in- cluding students from all classes, majors and backgrounds. The Union team also has the distinct honor of being one ot the very few co.ed teams participating in tour- .~ naments. Ultimate is a game played with two seven player teams. The object of the game is to pass to another player beyond the goal line. Unlike football, the playet· with the Frisbee cannot run, but must .pass from a standing position using various throws, pivots and fakes. There are no referees or umpire$, as the offense in any one play is responsible for calling throws out-of-bounds, fouls and dropped. passes. The Crispy Critters., will be going to Williams College next weekend to try their skills. Anyone interested in joining the Union College Ultimate Team can either attend the daily practices or contact Chuck Figur or Stanley Murphy. -The Buffalo Bills will be a serious contender for the AFC East Division title. Chuck Knox has built a strong defense and the offense, with Joe Ferguson, Jerry Butler and Auburn rookie Joe Cribbs will give many defenders headaches. -I hope New York (Jersey?) fans enjoyed the Giants opening game victory over St. Louis because it will be a long time before victory number two. A good share of the blame has to go to Ray Perkins. He took over a strong defense built up by Bill Arnsparger and has allowed it to deteriorate. -Those who feel that the San Francisco 49ers early-season performances have been a fluke can put that notion to rest. Coach Bill Walsh has put together a powerful offense . built around quarterback Steve DeBerg and running backs Paul Hofer and Earl Cooper. The defense has to be remolded before the Forty Niners become a serious playoff contender. --The NFC's best team is the Philadelphia Eagles. They are solid in all phases of the game and are the team to beat in the conferenc.e. Wilbert Mon- tgomery still doesn't command the publicity he deserves. -The Houston Oilers will not beat out the Steelers for a third consecutive year, and Ken Stabler will be traded for Bengal quarterback Jack Continued from page 1 majors, including Comparative Communist and Latin American studies. Under Dean Brownlee's proposal, this would be the way American Studies would con- tinue to be offered. But this spring Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson. a member of the EPC, recommended to the council that the American Studies major be \phased out\ entirely. After consi._deration, though, the EPC decided to table the motion. It will be brought up again sometime this fall by the Academic Affairs Council, which has assumed the EPC's duties. As for Nye's appeal, Prof. William J. Daniels said it would be handled \with all due dispatch.'' A member of the newly created Faculty Appeals Council, established to hear appeaLs of decisions made by the Faculty Review Board, Prof. Daniels was the person Ruth Anne Evans told of the PAB's recommendation about where Nye could ·take his ap- peal. However, Prof. Daniels added that the new appeals structure will have to get broken in first and that operational guidelines will have to be set up for each of the committees before Nye's case can be considered. And that, he believes, \is going to take awhile.\ SPORTS HAPPENINGS Sept. 25 to Oct. 2 Varsity Football JV Football Varsity Soccer Sept. 27 vs. Hofstra 1: 30 Sept. 29 at HVCC 7:30 Sept. 27 at Army 2:00 Oct. 1 at Hamilton 3:30 Sept. 27at RPill:OO Oct. 1 at Hamilton Sept. 26 at Univ. df Rochester 4:00 Sept. 27 at Wells 11:00 Sept. 29 vs. Hamilton 4:00 Sept. 30 at Siena 4:00 JV Soccer Field Hockey Women's Tennis Sept. 29 vs. Hamilton 4:00 Oct. 1 at Colgate 11 : 00 Cross Country Sept. 27 at Colgate 11:00 Oct. l at Hamilton vs. Binghamton & Hamilton 3:30 Volleyball Golf Oct. 1 vs. Vassar, New Paltz 7:00 Oct. 1 ECAC Toornament

Page 12 OONOORDlENSIS, September 15., 1980 ' 6porte Football Prev.iew: Gridders Open Saturday By ;DOUG SILVERSTEIN Sports organizations tend to create a \new look\ with the utmost of confidence while they choose to ignore the past disasters. This phenomenon is no stranger to Union College. Tom Cahill's hiring in 1975 was accompanied by great op· · imi.sm, although during his five years the Dutchmen never enjoyed a winning footbaH ..,eason. The new man in 1980 is .Joe Wirth, a defensive specialist who has engaged upon success wherever his talents have brought him. He will attempt to bring the Dut· chmen their first winning season since 1970 and there are many who believe Wirth will be able to accomplish that feat, especially his enthusiastic players. Concerning the past, Wirth says that \history is something that we've had no part of and can't control.\ He describes the future as \our future and destiny that we do have something to say about and at least a limited amount of control over.\ This Saturday afternoon, Wirth and his excited crew take on the Flying Dutchmen of Hofstra University, a com· petitive Division III squad. Here is a review of the key players and matchups for the forthcoming contest. Fourteen Union starters have been replaced for opening day. The offense will feature able junior quarterbac.k Dana Johnston. Although he only completed 31.1 percent of his passes for an average gain of 3.5 yards, the new ingenious of· fense sheuld be to Johnston's benefit. 'Behind him are a group of running backs with little or no experience. Included in the group are junior Don Marino and freshman tailback Art-hur Anderson. The other two backs will run out of an unusual Z. Back formation. The group will have the difficult task of replacing the graduated Rich Romer and Doug Napodano. In front of them are an offensive line that must detain a split-six fonnation of Hofstra. Hofstra coach Bill Leete relies on the quickness of his veteran linebacker corps. He says, ''We play a very active defense, we like to mix it up with a lot of •stunts.\ It will be the job of junior Walter Lutz and senior center Bill Egan to detain all- ECAC tackle Tom DiMassimo, who may be hesitant coming off surgery. The Hofstra linebackers may give the young Johnston trouble since the backfield of Union is new and may not be able to detain the roaming and charging ten- dencies of senior linebackers Tom Peseuma and Greg Jones. The two combined for over 100 tackles last year. The Dut- chmen may be better off passing more than they did last year since Hofstra may have trouble detaining the fleet- Achilles Rink Announces: A New Season of Public Skating Starting Friday, September 26 Public Skating Hours-- Friday, 8:30-10:30 Saturday & Sunday, 1: 00-2: 00 & 3: 00-4: 30 Prices Adu ltSa·$1.50 Children--$1.00 Students with I D--$1 .00 Open Skating for Union Personnel-- 1: 00 to 3:00 on Monday thru Friday with Union I D. Also, Achilles Announces The Opening of a New Skate Shop Laces & Blades Laces & Blades sells a v,ariety of sporting equipment. Laces & Blades also has new., quality skates to rent -.75 with Union 10. footedHenry Wright. However, it will be inlportant for the Dutchmen to establish an early running game to keep the veteran Hofstra backfield honest. That backfield includes junior cornerback JohnDiveris, who made 41 primary tackles last year. The offense is clearly the strength of the Hofstra Flying Dutchmen. Leete believes that Hofstra \won games solely on the strength of our ·offense last year.\ In the backfield are the experienced! ''M & M Boys,\ quarterback George Muller and halfback Kurt Murrell. Both are ECAC star.s and lead a Delaware Wing-T offense. Together, they gained two- thirds of Hofstra's total yardage last year. In the two _games in which Hofstra has split so far this season, Muller has com- pleted over 60 percent of his passes and Murrell has gained over five yards per carry. Back Frank Bianchini poses a threat to the Dutchmen linebackers with an excellent ability to catch passes out of the back- field. This will enable Hofstra to not only distract the two linebackers; but the two ends, Melina and Leff, who play as part of a high .school-type fiv.e- man line. The Union defensive line is led by standout Weldon Turner, who makes the difficult conversion to nose guard from linebacker. His strength and versatility should favor the Dutchmen line against an inexperienced Hofstra offensive line. Union must depend on a strong pass rush to minimize the effectiveness of Muller and elusive speedster John_Morris, who is responsible for eight receptions and one touchdown. Due to the versatility of Bianchini and consistent run- ning of backs Murrell and Watson, the Union defensive line must be cautious not to allow themselves to be caught watching screen passes develop. In this area, linebackers Jenkins and Audino are burdened with the dual responsibility . of covering screens and s·wings while concentrating on the forward running of the ba.cks. The Dutchmen secondary will have their h~nds full with Morris .and Frank Gaffney, which should present a formidable test for the youngsters. __ Coach Wirth hopes that his defense can keep the Dutchmen , dose enough until the offense gels. The key factors add up to the play of the Union defensive line and the ability of the Union running backs to make us all forget Romer and Napodano. Hofstra must get the continued strong efforts from the \M & M Boys'' if it-expects to beat the very determined Dutchmen. Youthful Hooters Seek Success It is a youthful Dutchmen soccer team that will try to maintain the winning tradition of past Union soccer squads. With only two ~eturning seniors, co-captains John Drum and Mike Canning, and just a handful of junior returnees, Coach Bob Magee will place a lot of responsibility on the growing shoulders of his many underclassmen. And with a few scrimmages and two regular season games under their belts, it appears that the youthful Dutchmen will live up to Magee's expectations. Sophomores Andy Dreyer and Bernie Zeifong, rated numbers one and two by Coach Magee in overall talent, are two young players of whom much is ex- pected. Dreyer is a bruising defensive bad who has so far controlled the middle of the field, both in the air and on the ground. Zeifong contrasts Dreyer's rugged style with an oily smooth cleverness that often leaves opposing defenders in fits. A pleasant surprise for Coach Magee and the Union team has been the addition of Dave Sheridan, a transfer student from the University of Massachusetts. Sheridan has a knack for scoring and so far has paced the Dutchmen's offense. Sophomores Evan Krinick and Mike Lewis, along with juniors Tim Agar and Hans Bukow complete what should be an explosive front line. · Last year's team sported a stingy defense that allowed only nine goals for the entire season. This year the defense appears to be equally strong. the shoes of graduated all-state goalie Doug Crawford is no easy task, but Romas has some mighty big shoes himself. Coach Magee, citing Romas' determination and hard work over this summer, has a' great amount of confidence in this year's goaltender. An experien-ced midfield returns with senior Mike Canning and juniors Brian Shea and Peter Malloy. Canning and Shea wi:ll be running the center of the field for a third con- secutive year. Unfortunately, a severely sprained ankle has sidelined Malloy for awhile and freshmen Steve Kileen and Larry A vastasi hope to be able to fill in. The Union soccer team opened the season last Wed- nesday with an easy 2-0 victory over visiting Siena College. Dave Sheridan tallied first for the Dutchmen, and although the Siena goal was blasted with 31 more shots, it was a Siena defender who errantly kicked the ball into his own goal, giving the Dutchmen their second goal. Saturday, it was Union v. Union, as the alumni returned for an afternoon of soccer. The alumni quickly grabbed a 2-o lead, but this edge was later erased as this year's Dutchmen pounded the netfor five straight goals. Pete Van Valkinburgh added a third goal on the day for the alumni, to bring the final score to 5-3. It was an impressive showing for this year's squad, as they prepped for this week's matches against powerhouses Cortland and West Point. Three-year starters John t Krwn and Peter Cholakis an· chor the powerful midfield, while giving support to junior goalie George Romas. Filling Captain Mike Cannihg passes ahead Stickers Are Ready By CORY LEWKOWI(;Z The Union College field hockey team began an op- timistic season ,yesterday at Middlebury, following Last year's record of 8·1-1. Coach Marty Morrison has her two top sc<>rers and two top llefensi·ve players returning from last season; left inside Ellen Heininger has led Union iri scoring the previous two seasons by tallying 16 goals as a sophomore and nine goals as a junior, and tri-captain and center link Buthaina Shukri has finished one goal behind Heininger the past two seasons by scoring 15 and eight goals in her sophomore and junior years, respectively. Tri-captain and right link Nancy Colt has played varsity field hockey at Union since her sophomore year and, according to Morrison, has developed into a sturdy, dependable player. ·Tri-captain ;mu right inside Debbie Downey has been on the varsity since her freshman year and averages six goals a season. Also expected to start for Union are sophomore sweeper Sue Epsel, sophomore link Holly Howard, freshman left outside Mary McGrath, freshman right back Angela McCormick, and junior left back Lisa Stern. The field hocltey team will play three contests on the road before hosting Hamilton on Monday, September 29. I.. 0! .c: <J) .c: .~ 0:: >- .0 0 - 0 .c: II. f, till ~ I I 4 ..... ·~ t f. ( Bed conte: today Colle1 dowr Helm: the bE City Stude! Beg the I As soc Schen of Cor celebr what, in sho cultur -FroJ on Ja; will of issue coupo1 Ate and Bonkn will E accon tertai guitar Union hold 1 area t The establ yester sampl< get th will bE other: At ti on Not to 9 p.1 speci_a 7:30 p. minutE \Cosn muset sculpt! artist FreE off ere Jewel' Grau graduc the w Ingrid' a work Also TheatE the Sci tonighj rehear from tl at the Street houses passes for a sessior Ever off wit! City ll p.m. A sc:

