·~ ~r: ·.tx) o .. ··:e.~ ·- .. c . ~0 facul·ty Vote: .. II Nl;ay 1, 1980 Volume 109, No. 21 • GoVernance OK'd by EDWARD ALBRO In a niail .ballot af the general faculty concluded last Friday, the new College Governance system was approved by the large majority of 115 v.otes affirmative to 17 negative, with 18 abstentions. The President will now present .the proposal to the Board of Trustees at their June meeting and if, as is ex- pe.cted, it is passed, the sy~tem will take effect September 1, 1980. President Morris was described as .being very pleased by theresult. \The faculty have clearly in:dieated that they wish to move ahead under a new governance structure in resolving s(}me of the difficult academic issues that face us,\ · he said. Professor · By:ron Nichols, chairman of the Governance Structure Drafting Committee, and fellow committee member Professor Anton Warde both warned against interpreting the· wide plurality of the acceptance as an overwhelmingly en- thusiastic mandate from the faculty. Prof. Nichols beli~ved that the · wide margin was ·caused largely by ''general disinterest\ among faculty. \My own sense is that a)l 115 who cast affirmative ballots did so with only lukewarm en- thusiasm,'' he said. Nichols believes that people liked and disliked different parts of the document, but that no_ one was totally satisfied by the entire system. It does, how~ver, ''rep.res.ent the collective wisdom of faculty,\ Nichols said. E Both Nichols and Warde _g • 0.. downplayed the impmiance of the governance change. Prof. Warde stated, \!think the main factor is almost a psychological factor. Everyone will have the sense of a pew beginning, a new system as opposed to a tired ~ld one. In spite of everything, it'$ the penple that are important and not the structures. Power w~s always the .power to- per- suad~ and the power to per- suade is as great as ever.\ ''I don't think the changes are that sweeping,\ Nichols said. He felt that the major dif- ferences are that a single Continued on page 8 ~~~~~·:',, ' -- Students voted o.n the i nstltut.lon of a new student constitution April 24 and 25. For the vote to - be vcalld, two-th1rds of the student body, or 973 students, needed to cast ballots. Of these votes cast, 67 percent hadto be in favor of the new constitution for It to be approved. In all, 994 stude~ts voted and 85.5 percent were In favor of the constitution. Forum President Ken Plumb .sa•d he ~as very pleased with the re_si:llt. A non-binding referendum on the issue of plus-mmusgradmg at Unlonwasa!so voted on during these two days. These results showed that 53 percent of students. voting were i.n favor af maintaining the present system, 16 per- cent wanted m.odlficaiions of the system, and 31 percent favored dropping the plus-minus syst~f!l a~d go1ng back hl full letter grades. The Forum has yet to consider the proposed mod1:f1cat•ons to determine if they are feasible. Stu:den~t Elections Set This year's student govern- ment elections, are scheduled for Tuesday, May 13, and Thursday, May 15. Several elected positions will remain ,-- the same under the new student constitution, recently ratified by the student body, while several new elected positions have been created. University Students Unite The President of the Student Government Association (SGA), the Vice-President for. Administration of the SGA and the Vice-President for Finance will be elected by all four classes to serve one-year terms of office. The Student Affairs Council, which is part of the College Governance System, is responsible for College policy affe,sting housing, food ser- vices, fraternities and sororities, the counseling service,and the College Center. Three sophomores will also be elected by their class to serve as next year's junior class representatives to the Student Forum. Junior class representatives will also be appointed by the SGA president to the CoC, Finance Committee, and Student Affairs Council. The Union University Student . Association (UUSA) is an organization composed of students from the various in- stitutions of Union University: Dudley Observatory, Union , College., Albany College of Pharmacy, Albany Medical College, and Albany Law School. The Association's primary objective is to facilitate student interaction between the sister schools. The Association was formed this past fall and has already set up programs to give college students tours of the graduate schools. in the University. Unlike the normal tours given at these schools, these tours are given by the graduate students and special attention is paid to making the, prospective ap- plicant aware of the ex- pectations of both the professors at the schools and the admissions departments. They have received a positive response from an~ of the ad- ministrations towards this particUlar program. _ The UUSA has a number of organizations either in the formative stages or as. future possibilities. In the area of athletics, these include ballroom and modern dance, karate, soccer, baseball, basketball, and track. Cultural activities include a Shakespeare Society, a film committee, a Dudley Obser- vatory Society, a photography group, and a Chinese Students Association. In the area of joint services for all of the schools, plans are being made for a communi;cation netwo-rk in ... eluding an intra-university mail system, a bulletin board net- work, and a press com- munications network, an escort system, a joint Law-Medicine bookstore, a le.isure reading book swap, a Medical-Legal aid reciproeation service, a dorm counsel, and ·11 veterans' association. The Student Government arranged by the UUSA ·consists af two houses. The upper house is less political than the lower house and consists of chairmen and alumni from the in- stitutions. The chairmen act like Trustees and are mainly interested in maintaining cohesion between the schools. The lower house consists of representatives from eaclf institution. The UUSA wishes Union students to_be aware of the openings in the government system for undergraduates. The facility in the-University probablyleastfamiliar to Union students is the Dudley Obser- vatory. This observatory, · located on Fuller Road in Albany, is one .of the oldest astronomical. observatories in the ,United States. It was chartered in 1852 and became part of Union- University in 1873. The work of the Observatory during the nineteenth century centered on determining the positions and motions of stars. During the twentieth century, the Observatory became morP. ... Q) t; Ill a: E ... 0 z A' of a research laboratory than an observing site. Work is currently being done in such areas as the study of cosmic dust, the study of ice sublimation, meteor spec- troscopy, and ultra ~Ugh resolution spectroscopy_ 'The laboratory is also involved in research dealing with aerosol contributions to air pollution and the atmospheric distribution of respiratory carcinogens. The facility also . has an excellent library with one of the finest colLections of rare astronomical literature. The present representatives to the UUSA are: Mal\leneOlsen (Graduate Studies at Union College,). Chris Lindsay (Albany Law), Andy Yuan (Union College) , Carol Burgess (Albany Medical), Clem - Zawadzki .(IAM Alumni Association), and Colleen O'Malley (Albany College of Pharmacy). Anyone wisbing further information about the Union University Student Association can contact members at Box 2561. Union College. Andy Yuan, Union College Representative to UUSA- The SGA President serves as chairman of the Student Forum and as a liason between the Forum and the College ad- ministration. He also serves as a member of the College Con- ference Group, which advises the President of the College. The Vice-President for Administration chairs the Committee on Committees ( CoC) and serves as the second student on the College Con- ference Group. The CoC is responsible for making all student appointments to the Student Forum. It also reviews student activities groups' constitutions and is responsible for the general administration of Student Forum committees. The Vice-President for Finance cllairs the Student Forum Finance Committee (formerly the Tax Committee). This committee is responsible for the monthly audit of all student activities and preparation of the annual student activities budget. ~ ', , In addition to the .president ahd two vice-presidents of the student government, one sophomore will be elected by all four classes to serve as a member of the Board of Trustees for two years. The president, two · vice-presidents and the student trustees also serve as members of the Student Forum. Three freshmen will be elected by their class to serve as next year's sophomor~ class representatives to the Student Forwn. After the election, or early next year, the SGA president will appoint one elected sophomore class representative to serve on the CoC. Another sophomore class rep will be appointed to the Student Finance Committee, ·and a third will serve on the Student Affairs Council. As part of the transition from the old to new student govern- ments, only one junior will be elected this spring to serve .as senior class representative next year. This senior class rep will also be appointed to one of the three major committees. The other two senior class representatives next year will be this year's junior class reps. Nominating petitions for all elected SGA offices will be available in the Student Activities Office beginning today. All completed petitions must be returned to the same office by Friday, May 9, at 4:30 p.m. Students desiring to submit statements or campaign platforms to appear in next week's issue of Concordiensis must do so by 4:30 p.m. next Monday, May 5. · They should be given to Mrs. ·Marra, Coordinator of Student Activities. Statements for class reps may not exceed 100 words, and statements for officers and student trustee may not exceed 150 words. All statements must be typed and double-spaced. When candidates submit their statements, they should also sign up to, have their ac- companying picture taken to appear in this newspaper. Further information con- cerning these elected offices can be obtained by contacting any member of the Student Forum. Ken Plumb, Student Body President, will be available at 3 p.m. today and Friday in the Student Forum Room on the fourth floor of Carnegie Hall to answer questions about available student goverrunent positions and the election procedure in general.

Page2 OONOORDIEN818 1 May 1, 1980 -Editori-al- ,. Tunnel Vision Most students and faculty here at Union have tunnel vision and as a result have overlooked many potentially valuable ppportunities available to them. Because we see ourselves as being loyal to the College, why can we not also see a loyalty to the University? What university? Why, Union University, of course! Union University was founded in 1873and consists·of the following independent institutions: the Dudley Observatory, Albany Medical College, Albany Law School, Albany School of Pharmacy, and Union O>llege. As a matter of fact; UnJon CoUege's President (the only President at any of the University's in- stitutions) also holds the position of Chancellor of Union University. EUphalet Nott and the other founders· of Union University intended to create a sense of collegiate fraternalism among students pursuing varied disciplines. The institutions were expected to develop a special relationship marked by a feeUng of unity that would allow willing participation without the loss of individuality. However, no special relationship has be.en developed over the past century. The structure that exists has acted as an obstacle to the potential envisioned for the University. · Th:e University has a history which rivals that of Harvard, as Albany Law School is one of the two oldest law schools in New York, and the Dudley Ob· serv.atory is one of the oldest astronomical observatories in the country. And yet, though Harvard has separate schools, it retains a strong sense of unity. The only sense of unity exhibited at Union University has come from the graduate sector. Their interest in the formaticm of a true university has revived the intent of the University's founders. Discussions involving members of Union University's five institutions have resulted in the creation Of the Union University Students' Association. This association is an administrative body to encourage the development of a special community by the generation of joint activities and student interaction. It seems odd, considering the benefits that we undergraduate schools stand to gain through interaction with the graduate schools, that we need to be en- couraged to strengthen our ties with our sister schools. Maybe our tunnel vision is so narrow that we fail to notice that the other four institutions are part of Union University and not the State University (SUNY) system. Their names al\e derived from their geographic location and not from any affiliation we might attach to them. It is true that students from SUNY often get part-time jobs at the institutions, but this is probably due to the lack of response by Union College for these positions. It is also true that there is a lack of necessary transportation between the campuses. This problem could be alleviated if enough students began utilizing the resources of the other institutions, making it profitable and reasonable to establish a transportation system within the University. With members of the Union College faculty also teaching at the graduate schools, natural continuity seems to exist; connections between the various institutions should be automatic. The reputations of the individual schools are good. The law school holds the distinction of having the highest number of graduates admitted to the Bar in New York State. The medical school has 80 percent of its graduates admitted into the profession, a very high percentage indeed. There is diversity and strength to be gained by playing up the entire Union University and not simply the diversity of Union College or the other in- stitutions separately. There are economic considerations also in promoting ties, as .all students are entitled to free legal a:dvice, and there are opportunities for doublEf scholarships for those undergraduates who continue within Union University after graduation. With the expected decrease in the applicant pool, it would seem that a larger and more vital University structure would sell faster than the individual schools would. The graduate schools of Union University are so certain of their ties to Union College that they do not even send recruiters to the campus. Graduate students wear Union University jackets and watches.; even their stationery and buildings display the Union University emblem. Yet, most Union College students are not aware of their rights to participate in the activities of the other campuses. We must work together with the other institutions, toward recognizing the existing ties. We must begin now to preserve our tradition so that in future generations, it will not need to be rediscovered. In short, we must widen our tunnel vision. Elections for Editor-in-Chief of CONCORDIENSIS for Fall and Winter Terms will be held on Tuesday, May 20th. Notices of candidacy should be submitted to Lorraine Marra on or before Monday, May 12. ' editor-in-chief managing editor news editors features editors arts editor phCJto editors sports editor assistant sports editor women's sports editor layout editors copy editor business managers subscription editor calendar staff photo staff donna creeley jim davis ellen van dyke, ed albro paul grossman, dan booth mandy abrams norm pflaster, pam ryan rich hope bill curtin chris phelan rachel mand~I. sue marr ellen rubin larry Ieavitt, julie isgro Sara simmons ellen berger; maria man fredonia joanne white, paul feinsot, dan rosenfield mindy broser, sara simmons / ' CONCORDmNSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, 8lh Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820~ (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. .. ••. ·... ... . jn,., . solely b.eeause intt~ew1~e knew all of the otl!ler C<>mmittee · member's. · · This increases the fairness of the· procedure because it · elbninates a great . deal ·\'of . . J'un ... »:iJ~.heJr,. pers~mru ~~ whether it. he Ron. Gullot:ta. p~sittve .. nr negati.v:e4. . The. . .···~· ~»·'·L!Olffih·~;ett:J' 1\al~ietE~iZ, COmmittee would like to em- phasize . the fact that the . · · ·. .· · . as an OA. ~All ~mmeiits had tO be identified . 0 ; Nell Rosenbaum, ··'J\in in terms of eontext. l~very-: S.imo~ .. John Stimmel, , ~.·.aetl~. g .. was. 'Cen~~ .. ct~d ~;b.y·. . C ...• ~.l! .. ~el ... 1~,. Dan·. .· ff~ ... eithe:r. L1sa Ka·ta · QJ: , Rxclt . ~fi'n~ .·. :!Uch .· ... tht GagU.an<), last .'f. e~:. •·s Co~. Sdll~t ~ McGrath. mittetr• ehairpeople, · Mike Andolin~. Assistant · · of OufrQ&ed Students. This ensured ae~ • euracy and eonfidentiality. We S·m.lf.hl·e· ·S would also like to thank every applicant and to e:QtPhasize that the Orientation Ctimmittee~s main ht.t17dle this year was ·to pick only 76 Orientation· Advisors. from ·a very-well qualifk!d number of 233. We would alsu like to wholehear- tedly thank Lisa, Rick, and Mike for helping us and OOlping us persevere· through our marathon sessions. Cornell Summers Work F.or You Plan your educational 'Investment wisely. Cornell University offers a wide variety . of summer courses and special programs with tuition at $110 per credit or less. By ac- celerating your degree program, you can probably reduce the cost of your education significantly. Besides, where else can you pol'lsh your writing skills and learn to use a computer or be In an undergraduate prelaw program and take a course In conceptual drawing? Where else can you be in the company of so diverse a group of faculty and students in such a uniquely attractive setting of hills. lakes. gorges, and waterfalls? lntere,ted? Write or call for an Announcement today. C\\/~.. Cornell University Summer Session, 111 Day HaiJ Ithaca, New York l4853 Phone 607/ 256-4987 ·We\•~ H0usmt'';1 to . .Qisban' sinq~,\W£q,J. trem~ndl cooper at others co dismaye~ disband leavrog·o 1\s.,an nation~ risingagl the Colle! financial] We havE plan and costs to students this in tb loss of hi and coo creased Weur1 potnts a1 Cc Un Da '~G auJ ml

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, May 1) 1980 -Editori-al- I' Tunnel Vision Most students and faculty here at Union have tunnel vision and as a result have overlooked many potentially valuable opportunities available to them. Because we see ourselves as being loyal to the College, why can we not also see a loyalty to the University? What university? Why, Union University, of course! Union University was founded in 1873 and consists of the following independent institutions: the Dudley Observatory, Albany Medical College, Albany Law School, Albany School of Pharmacy, and Union College. As a matter of fact, Unlon College's President (the only President at any of the University's in- stitutions) also holds the position of Chancellor of Union University. Eliphalet Nott and the other founders of Union University intended to create a sense of collegiate fraternalism among students pursuing varied disciplines. The institutions were expected to develop a special relationship marked by a fee-ling of unity that would allow willing participation without the loss of individuality. However, no special relationship has been developed over the past century. The structure that exists has acted as an obstacle to the potential envisioned for the University. The University has a history which rivals that of Harvard, as Albany Law School is one of the two oldest law schools in New York, and the Dudley Ob- servatory is one of the oldest astronomical observatories in the country. And yet, though Harvard has separate schools, it retains a strong sense of unity. The only sense of unity exhibited at Union University has come from the graduate sector. Their interest in the formation of a true university has revived the intent of the University's founders. Discussions involving members of Union University's five institutions have resulted in the creation of the Union University Students' Association. This association is an administrative body to encourage the development of a special community by the generation of joint activities and student interaction. It seems odd, considering the benefits that we undergraduate schools stand to gain through interaction with the graduate schools, that we need to be en- couraged to strengthen our ties with our sister schools. Maybe our tunnel vision is so narrow that we fail to notice that the other four institutions are part of Union University and not the State University (SUNY) system. Their names are derived from their geographic location and not from any affiliation we might attach to them. It is true that students from SUNY often get part-time jobs at the institutions, but this is probably due to the lack of response by Union College for these positions. It is also true that there is a lack of necessary transportation between the campuses. This problem could be alleviated if enough students began utilizing the resources of the other institutions, making it profitable and reasonable to establish a transportation system within the University. With members of the Union College faculty also teaching at the graduate schools, natural continuity seems to exist; connections between the various institutions should be automatic. The reputations of the individual schools are good. The law school holds the distinction of having the highest number of graduates admitted to the Bar in New York State. The medical school has 80 percent of its graduates admitted into the profession, a very high percentage indeed. There is diversity and strength to be gained by playing up the entire Union University and not simply the diversity of Union College or the other in- stitutions separately. There are economic considerations also in promoting ties, as all students are entitled to free legal a:dvice, and there are opportunities for double scholarships for those undergraduates who continue within Union University after graduation. With the expected decrease in the applicant pool, it would seem that a larger and more vital University structure would sell faster than the individual schools would. The graduate schools of Union University are so certain of their ties to Union College that they do not even send recruiters to the campus. Graduate students wear Union University jackets and watches; even their stationery and buildings display the Union University emblem. Yet, most Union College students are not aware of their rights to participate in the activities of the other campuses. We must work together with the other institutions, toward recognizing the existing ties. We must begin now to preserve our tradition so that in future generations, it will not need to be rediscovered. In short, we must widen our tunnel vision. Elections for Editor-in-Chief of CONCORDIENSIS for Fall and Winter Terms will be held on Tuesday, May 2oth. Notices of candidacy should be submitted to Lorraine Marra on or before Monday, May 12. editor-in-chief managing editor news editors features editors arts editor photo editors sports editor assistant sports editor women's sports editor layout editors copy editor business managers subscription editor calendar staff photo staff donna creeley jim davis ellen van dyke, ed albro paul grossman, dan booth mandy abrams norm pflaster, pam ryan rich hope bill curtin chris phelan rachel man del, sue marr ellen rubin larry Ieavitt, julie isgro sara simmons ellen berger, maria manfredonia joanne white, paul feinsot, dan rosenfield mindy broser, sara simmons CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, 8% Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. ..• , O.A.'s Annouaced To the Editor: . In response to queries about the Orientation procesS; the Orientatron Committee- would like t<l explain the s:~leetion procedure, The most imp&:rtant point about this procedure is that each applicant i~ reviewed up until the very last rGund and no candidates are chosen or rejected untif that final point. Every applicant follows tbe same procedure: O(} candidate is considered without both an application and an interview. Whenever ·posslbl~. n{}n- partlsan interviewers were chosen. The reason that some candidates only had one in~ terviewer was sol~y because the interviewee knew all of the other Committee members. This increases the fairness of the· procedure because it eliminates a great d~al of personal bias 1 whether it be positive or negative. The Committee would like to em- . phasize the fact that the qualities of an ()A w.ere discussed and outlined before the selection process D:egan aJld that any statement made about any applicant during the process was made only in regard to that candidate's ef- fectiveness as an QA. All comments had to be ide-ntified in terms of context. Every meeting was eondueted by either Lisa Kat& · or Rick Gagliano, last year~s Com- mittee chairpeople, ''(lr Mike Andolina, Assistant Dean of Students. This ensured ac- curacy and confidentiality. We wculd also like to thank every applicant and to emphasize that the Orientation Comntittee's main hurdle this year:\ was to pick only 7& Orientation Advisors from a very-well qualified number of :233. We would also like to wholehear- tedly thank Lisa, Rkk,. .and Mike f()r helping us and helping us persevere through our marathon sessions. Orientation Committee, 1960- Nancy Gagliano, Joe Laurin, Karen, Bader~· Chris Pllelan, Mandy Phillips. Sam Po.st,, Elissa Ganbarg, Kim N()gay, Lisa Lenz, Jack D()nahue, Katlly boftahue. Cary,M .. m. dlarl4 ~Jobin Ca:rnick, Danny ·(..'W()ZZiCJ. Rich Mintz, Brian Marks Orle1ttati911 AdVisors '80 Jane Cavalier, Fran Davis. Debbie FeldmanJ Sue Flanagan, Eileen Goodman, Carol Hanretta, Ruth Ellen Lewis, Joan Muomblo, ·Joan O'Connor, Karen Ross, Pam VigUehno, Liz Weisser, Sharon Brand, Cindy Baddenhagen 1 Lynne Daloia, Kelly Dennint Cynthia Glockner, Tracy Hoffman, Nancy Judson, Mary Lavin. , Barb Plotkin, Kathy Pusik, Helene Grossberg. Kim Var~ dakos, Sheila' Wassh, Jenifer Ar<moff. Aimee Bernstein, Marla Shore, Connor O'Brien, Linda Sher, Carla Cogan, Maureen Avalle, Laura Druskin, ilene Landress, Beth Meyer, Cindy Penka, Huda Abdalati, Michele Desimone, Kenny Clayton. Pete Conese, Tom Farrell, Jim Fisher, Peter Goldberg,. Ron Gullotta, Dave Handler, Will Lloyd, Seth Mendelowitz. Wayne Penezek. Rich Simons, Dave Stern • Steve Weil, Andy Weitzman, Jim Zalucki, Scott Builione, Joe Clinton, Jeff DeMarco. Andrew Erskine, Robert Fiscbmann. Tom Goldstein, Jon Green, · Pete Hoffman, Mike Kaplowitz. . Geoff Kors, Ed Lonergan. Joe Maguire. Steve Marks, Dan . O'Neil, Neil Rosenbaum, Tippy Simons, John Stimmel, Jeff Cappelle~ Dan Lacoff, Marc Pifko, Rich Roth~ Pete Schlessel~ Mike McGrath. Outraged Smithies To the Editor: As members uf the House- Coop, we were outraged at the prop()Sal for Smith House which appeared in last week's Couco.rdiensis. We feel it im· perative that the major points omitted in the letter and editorial be brought out at this time. The RtJsidence Life Office does not hesitate to make the housing shortage known. For years now, Administrators hold their breath pn Sophomore Lottery night, praying that only Continued en Cornell Summers Work For You Plan your educational 'investment wisely. Cornell University offers a wide variety of summer coull'ses and special programs with tuition at $110 per credit or less. By ac· celerating your degree program, you can probably redtJce the cost of your education significantly. Besides, where else can you polish your writing skills and learn to use a computer or be In an undergraduate prelaw program and take a course In conceptual drawing? Where else can you be In the company of so diverse a group of faculty and students in such a uniquely attractive setting of hills, lakes, gorges, and waterfalls? Interested? Write or call for an Announcement today. ~,.....,., Cornell University Summer Session. 1 11 Day Hall Ithaca, New York 14853 Phone 607/256-4987 'I I I ! $. ,, Continue.: a few stude campus. It i: toat one ofJ spends a lEI time and E housing wl templates ta College nee< · full-time u mitory facil as that. The next I to bring eJ Smith How ·housing f dependent cooking. If prospective such fadlit: Housing f enough wil worse. We would that this 1s 1 College: I ·students College liv would be w is immora concerned. the College type faci1 · fraudulent .to repres dormitorie We werE Housing < to disband since we a tremendu <!ooperati others co1 dismayed disband leaving m As an flationacy rising ag~ theColleg financiall We have plan and costs to students· this in thl 'loss of ho and COOl creased 1 Weurg points ar House. To the l I woul errors i last w~ concern progi'an If thi effect, t ·number Smyhl that an .student decrea1 \beds\ Byli, the un1 for his . applieE . COmffi( withQu neces! plic~:p;1 Uni Da' \G~ aut mh

I . I a ~weekend. .Tomorrow. night, others C()uld \e are May 2, from 11 p.m. to 4 a.m. at distnayed by tbe\\pNposal to the Girling ·Center,_ we are disband YO.t anoth.tlr e()op. hosting $Ur Thir(l Annual leaving· only on$. .Suitease Party._ ~ · As \-an asid~ in ·these in· The first prize is a Three--Day- flationary times (with tuition · TwtJ .. Nlght, All Expenses Paid rising again this year), bow can 'l'rlJ) to Sunny N:assau. In ad- the College even c001sirler such a clition, 36 bottles of ch:m:i.pagne financially unsmmd project? and a dinner· for two wUl be We have a cooperative meal given aa consolation prizes. plan and we know ·l!Qw tntwh it · , There . are- still a limited costs to run .. We !lelieve the · number nf tickets f-or saie. The students will end up ·pay~. for price is- $12 per two people. this in the long run, hot OnlY by noo·t mi~$ out on the op- loss of housin~, · cooldtlg options portunity of a lifetime, PLUS and oooperat1ves, but by in- free beer, a great band and creased tuition as well. plenty of good times. Hustle on ~e urge you to.COtlsider th~e .. . ()Vet' to the Student Activigies pomts and lrelp 1.1a sav-tJ Smith OffiooJ or stop ay the House ~d House. . pm'Chase your chance for a lOng Smith Jl(.)US~~ent.S· . weekend on the beach. C tl . · , Seeyouthere, • . orrec-. OilS ... The Brothers of Delta Phi To the Editor:.. .P .s. You must be present for the I woold like to eorrect drawing to be elig!ble to win the errors in· the articles trip. , ' - last week ;&ll,·e·~ IJrd:ttJJuns FIJI's 2nd 1.\noual Spring· Sports Party Tonight 10 p.m. beer, punch hotdogs, peanuts Union varsity baseball stars- Dave ChiJsed, Steve GoU and · i~GC)Og.\ Quinn will be signing. autographs. fr()m 10 pm until midnight. - -' carmen Martinez, Soltis. Alternates~ Claire Burcbill, ·Emmy Loo -Heselton, ·Roslyn. Stone, Dana Than. · Accepted Candidates for R.A. Men Friday. Not only was satisfying t~. see almost students turn out to express their opinions, but also it was extremely gratifying that over 8S percent .of tbose who voted supported our efforts in terms of approving the new Con~ stitution. Thanks for your Union Days And' Nights: Springtime Blossoms Here by JIM;DAVIS Their names border .on the exotic, suggesting places far away: Austrian Pine, Oregon- Grape and Japanese Flowering Crab-Apple. But don't let their . titles fool you. These trees are growing right here, on the Provost Huntley suggestr '.'&at the campus would loc> 1 ' ,nore like a prison yard. That p;1ay not be far from the truth. A host of plantings now enhance \·Union's physical Union campus. With the approach of warm, ~-./ spring-like weather (only some j > six weeks after the vernal \ equinox that officially begins ~ . ~ the season) this plant life will !X shortly be coming into full E blossom. 8?. Provost C. William Huntley >- and Professor H. Gilbert n ~ Harlow have been in charge of ~ t the campus planting program if since its inception in 1962. Each ' • fall they help decide ~what new trees will be planted where the following spring. Bet ween 300 and 400 new trees and shmbs will be planted this spring. This number jncludes five new varieties that Wj.ll be added to the 130-odd already on campus. The actual planting is scheduled to take place within the next few weeks. A special strain of orchids is also planned for Jackson's Garden, which will act as a sort of proving ground for their heartiness. The idea behind this kind. of landscape architecture is to lend beauty and definition to the College grounds. Without it, Thank You~ To the Editor: Attention is constantly focused on the few students who conduct themselves in socially 1macceptable ways, infringing on the rights of other members of the campus community. Little recognition is given to the large number of students who participate in college and community service activities and who enrich the lives nf others through positive con- tributions which enhance hwpan dignity and the quality of life. character. For example, about 315 Black Pines ring Fox. and Davidson dormitories. Besides adding a year-round living color to these buildings, the pines also in- sulate them by breaking the wind during the winter. (During the summer, it's probably another .storv. But from the look of things, ;IVe won't have to worry abm•t warm weather for awhile-or at least until finals week.) And rows of oaks and maple trees line some of the lanes around campus, providing shade when they're in blossom. (This year, it's probably a safe bet to expect that to happen by Independence Day.) But the dismal local weather doesn't--Qr at least shouldn't- detract from the majesty of this 'plant life and the foresight that went into their planning. It's the least we can do as campus residents to appreciate them. At the very least, this will make the time spent staring out the window during class a little more productive. Have your design on an Orien1ation 80'c; T-shirt! Design a pa.ttern for the T- ~ assistance ·and support. Con- cerning the plus~mlnus grading survey, the Forum will begin looking at the modifications submitted this -past week in order to determine what changes in the present sy.stem should be proposed. I would like to e:s:press my special thanks to Dave O'Connor, Andy Mitchell, and Will Lloyd for their tremendous assistancef and of course, to Rich 'Budd and ~is elections committee for their efforts. One example of service oc- curred during the past week when Michael Kapl~ Jeff Sincerely, Cohen, Rob l)(!rbabiant Mat- . shirt and turn it into the Student Activities office by Thurs. May 22, if selected win a dinner for 2 at the Pub! Any questions, contact Dan Cuozzo.J72-0172, or any member of the Orientation Committee, K-enneth Plumb thew Schwartz, Richard Alt~ student Body President man, Steve Larson, Richard ·Mintz, David Wollin and David P.S. Petitions for elected Popp. all from West College, .. ;;::~~.r:ar;~e~~no=w~'t~ay~afl=·::a~,~bl!\~e~in:· ~;.\'-•'volunteered to clean paint off The Idol Literary Magazine will be accepting all sub- missions up to Wednesday • May 7. All types of creative writing is encouraged: poetry, short stories, essays, etc. The Idol is requesting art work and photography submissions as well. · For\those persons Interested in compiling and editing the spring issue of the Idol . the staff meets on Tuesday at 8 p.m. in the Women's Network Room. HoW yoQ:can accumulate I ' $14,1 00 for educa.tion. With the help .of the Veterans' Educational Assistance Program, If you hcwe more determlnQ'tlon than dollars, you can build an educational fund for the future. When you enlist in the Army and save up to $15 a month during your initial enlistment, your ~~vlngs are matched $2 for $1 by the government. Along with an additional enlistment bonus, this could add up to $14,100 for college or vocational-technical school. You'll return to school with a tuition fund, plus a valuable skill, new confidence and the maturity gained in the Army. Call Army O:pportunities 377-6477 Join the peosale who've ioined the Army. An Equal Opportunity Employer

'OONOORDIENSJS~ M p 8 · · Vnion Days And.Nights: ----L&ff&fS....----· Springtime Blossoms Here Continued from page :2 a few students are forced off · campus. -It is ludicrous _to think that one office of tbe College spends a large portion of its time and energy to increase housing while another conM templates taking it away. Union College needs Smith House as a fulHime undergraduate dor- mitory facility. It is as simple · as that. The next ma}or point we wish to bring emphasis to is that Smith House is one of the two housing facilities for in~ dependent males that allows cooking. If it were given to prospective students. only one such facility would be available. Housing facilities are bad enough without making them worse. We would-also like to point out that this is misadvertising of the College: Having prospective students experience Union College living via Smith House would be wr()ng. Misadvertising is inunoral as far as we are concerned. Only one percent of the CO.llege lives in Smith House ·type facilities. It would be fraudulent to use Smith· House ; to represent Union College dormitories. We were disappointed by the Housing Committee's decision to disband Bronner House Coop since we all feel we have gained tremendously by our cooperative experience, and others could too! Now we are dismayed by the . proposal to d-isband yet another coop, leaving only one. As an aside, in these in- flationary times (with tuiti()n !'ising again this year), how can the College even consider such a financially unsorutd project? We have a cooperative meal • \''\' .. and we know how much it to run. We believe the udents will end up paying for in the long run~ not only by of housing, ·cooking options and cooperatives, but by in- creased tuition as well. We urge you to consider these and help us save Smith HmlSe. Smith House Residents Corrections To the Editor: I would like to eorrect several errors in the articles printed last week in Concordiensis concerning the Smith. House program. . ' because he is living there, taking advantage of whatever amenities that living space offers. The idea of making the ap-- plicant comfortable is not to give him a fictitiouA picture of the campus, but rather to remove the variable comfort from the picture. The adM vantage of doing this is that the applicant can spend his time looking at the campus, not at where to find a toothbrush {yes, this really has happened). The idea of this program is to provide an unbiased view of the campus to the applicant. This is necessarily a sales job-one that must be done honestly and openly. That is the intention of this pr{)gram. Sincerely, Dan Rosenfield Suitcase Party ·To the Union College Com- munity: Summer is still six long, long weeks away from beeoming a reality and the only thing that stands between then and now . are midterms, finals and just a whole lot of work. Would you like to escape from the work for one glorious, relaxing, carefree weekend? We at Delta Phi are in the' habit of offering just such a weekend. Tomorrow night, May 2, from 11 p.m. to 4 a.m. at the Girling Center, we are hosting our Third Annual Suitcase Party. The first prize is a Three-Day· Two~Nigbt, All Expenses Paid Trip to Sunny Nassau. In ad- dition, 36 bottles of champagne and a dinner for two will be given as consolation prizes. There are still a limited number of tickets for sale. The price is · $12 per two people. Don't miss out on the op-- portunity of a lifetime, PLUS free beer, a great band and plenty of good times. Hustle on over to the Student Activigies Office, or stop by the House and purchase your chance for a long weekend on the beach. . See you there, The Brothers of Delta Phi P.S. You must be presentfor the drawing to be eligible to win the trip. I.A.'s Announced If this program is put into effect, there will still be the full number of students living in Srnij:h House. The difference is To the EditOr: that an of the students will be student hosts. Tbere will be no decrease in the number of \beds\ for the student body. The Residence Ufe Office bas annoooeed that the following people have been selected as next year's Resident Advisors: \ . By living in Smith House, with the understanding that ~his is for his convenience only, the Aec::epted.Candithltes fur R.A. applicant can look at the ac~ Women co:mmodations on the campus Debbie Baertsehi (Rich· without bias. L~ving in a dorm mond}, Sue.Barnhardt, Miche~e necessarily biases the ap- . Beaulieu, Rose Borruso, Liz p1ic~nt. be it for m·· against~ Catal~no, Robin Cornick~ FIJI's 2nd ~nual Spring Sports Party Tonight 10 p.m. beer, punch hotdogs, peanuts Union varsity baseba II stars Dave Chused, Steve Goll and \Goog\ Quinn will be signing autographs from lO pm until midnight. Megan Cummings-Saxton, Elizabeth Donaghue~ Martha Duval, Susan Farley, Nancy Gagliano, Susan Glaser, Catherine Johnson, Maria Lanni, Katie Martin (North), Cannen Martinez, Soltis. Alternates: Claire Burchill, Enuny Lou Heselton, Roslyn Stone, Dana Thau. Accepted Candidates for R.A. Men Bob Berlin, Bob Brewster, John Cannizzaro, Steve Cl!r\ damone (South), James Carrol, Gary Cohen, Thomas Cum- mings, Dan Cuozzo, John Dragoon, Kevin Farley, Robert Feinberg, Doug Mahler (Fox), Tim Mara (Wel>t;ter), Robert McHugh, Seth Oringer, John Pietrangelo {Davidson), Joseph Sanders, Carl Strang {West), Mark Thorn, Craig Williams, Andy Yuan. Alternates: Tim Cooley, Mike Getz, Doug Silverstein. NOTE: Listings preceding parentheses are head R.A.s. Students Vote To the Editor: Many thanks to those in· divlduals who took the time to participate in the referendum held this past Thursday and Friday. Not only was it very satisfying to see almost 1,000 students turn out to eKpress their opinions, but also it was extremely gratifying that over 85 percent of those who voted supported our efforts in terms of approving the new Con- stitutitm. Thanks for your . assistance ·and support. Con- cerning the plus~minus grading survey, the Forwn will begin looking at the modifications submitted this past week in order to determine what changes in the present system should be proposed. I would like to express my special thanks to Dave O'Connor, Andy Mitchell, and Will Lloyd for their tremendous assistance,- and of course, to Rich Budd and his elections committee for their effort~. Sincerely, Kenneth Plumb Student Body President P.S. Petitions for elected positions are now ayailable in Student Activities and I en- courage your participation. l will be available Tuesday, May 6 at 2 p.m. in the Student Forum Room, fourth floor Carnegie, to ·answer questions that any candidates might have regarding the available positions or electh)n procedures: in general. by JIM DAVIS Their names border Oil the exotic, suggesting places far away: Austrian Pine, Oregon- Grape and Japanese Flowering Crab-Apple. But don't let their titles fool yau. These trees are growing right here, on the Union campus. With the approach of warm, spring-like weather (only some Provost Huntley suggest:\ 'aat the campus would lor' aore like a prison yard. That may not be far from the truth. A host of plantings now enhance Union's physical six weeks after the vernal s::: equinox that officially begins ~ the season) this plant life will ~ shortly be corning into full E blossom. ~ Provost C. William Huntley > and Professor H. Gilbert ..o Harlow have been in charge of ~ ,, the campus planting program &, since its inception in 1962. Each fall they help decide what new trees will be planted where the following spring. Between 300 and 400 new trees and shrubs will be planted this spring. This number includes five new varieties that will be added to the 130-odd already on campus. The actual planting is scheduled to take place within the next few weeks. A special strain of orchids is also planned for Jackson's Garden, which will act as a sort of proving ground for their heartiness. The idea behind this kind of landscape architecture is to lend beauty and definitien to the College grounds. Without it, Thank You To the Editor: Attention is constantly focused on the few students who conduct themselves in socially unacceptable ways, infringing on the rights of other members of the campus community. Little recognition is given to the large number of students who participate in college and community service activities and who enrich the lives of others through positive con- tributions which enhance hurpan dignity and the quality of life. One example of service oc- curred during tbe past week when Michael Kaplowitz, Jeff Cohen, Rob Derbabian, Mat- thew Schwartz, Richard Alt- man, Steve Larson, Richard ·Mintz, David Wollin and David Popp, all from West Ci>Dege, volunteered to clean paint o{f Chester Arthur's statue. It is always good to see constructive, caring activity. These students should be commended for their cnncern and commitment to the College. Yours truly, Robert H K~llett · Dean of Students character. For example, about 375 Black Pines ring Fox and Davidson dormitories. Besides adding a year-round living color to these buildings, the pines also in- sulate them by breaking the wind during th~ winter. (During the summer, it's probably another storv. But from the look of things, ;JJe won't have to worry abo,!t warm weather for awhile--0r at least lllltil finals week.) And rows of oaks and maple trees line some of the lanes around campus, providing shade when they're in blossom. (This year, it's probably a safe bet to expect that to happen by Independence Day.) But the dismal local weather doesn't-or at least shouldn't- detract from the majesty of this plant life and the foresight that went into their planning. It's the least we can do as campus residents to appreciate them. At the very least, this will make the time spent staring out the window during class a little more productive. Have your design on an Orientation 80's T -shirt! Design a pattern for the T- shirt and turn it into the Student Activities office by · Thurs. May 22, if selected win a d·inner for 2 at the Pub! Any questions, contact Dan Cuozzo-372-0172, or any member of the Orientation Committee. The Idol Literary Magazine will be accepting all sub- missions up to Wednesday, May 7. All types of creative writing is encouraged: poetry, short stories, essays, etc. The Idol is requesting art work and photography submissions as welL For'those persons interested in compiling and editing the spring issue of the Idol - the staff meets on Tuesday at B p.m. in the Women's Network Room. HoW you can accumulate $14,100 for education. With the help of the Veterans' Educational Assistance Program, if you have more determination than dollars, you can build an educational fund for the future. government. Along with an additional enlistment bonus, this could add up to $14,100 for college or voca tiona 1-techn ica I school. When you enlist in the Army and save l:lp to $75 a month during your initial enlistment, your ~avings are matched $2 for $1 by the You'll return to school with a tuition fund, plus a va.luabie skill, new confidence and the maturity gained in the Army. Call Army Op,portunities 377-6477 Join the people who've ioined the Army. An Equal Opportunity Employer

Pag~ 4 \- OONOORDJENSIS., M,ay 1, 1980 \ Stone Boat En.ds Season by JANE and TOM WEBB Last Sunday the Stone Boat Club traveled to West point for its final meet of the season. There were 15 other schools from throughout the northeast competing. The rnore notable schools were Cornell, Carnegie Mellon University, Clarkson, University of Pennsylvania, and SUNY at Buffalo. When we arrived at West Point. most of the other schools were present. It was im- mediately apparent that the race was going to be very competitive. Many of the schools had vastly improved their canoes over previous years. There are also several uniquely designed entries, and only the race would tell whose engineering . skills would prevaiL As a result of 15 schools en- tering the competition and several schools entering two canoes, the races had to be held with three heats for each division. The first two canoes to finish in each heat would con• tinue onto the ~final race in the division. The first competition was the men's race. Union entered Hank Woller and Don Leffert in the first heat with Tom Cum- mings and Dave Komotng competing in the second heat. Both teams finished first in their: heats by substantial margins. Tom and Daves' time Lottery was better than Hank and Dons', so they were entered in the finals. After the men's race, the women got their chance to qualify. Jane Webb and Kathy Tessier were entered in the third heat. Our team got off to a · bad start and found themselves behind several canoes. As the race w9re on, the women's team were just trailihg Cornell. The two teams battled it out down the. final leg of the race, with Umon the victor at the finish by inches. With our first two teams qualified for the finals, the faculty had their chance. Prof. Tern Jewell . and Jan Perrin were again the only mixect faculty team. They easily won their heat by 150 yards in a 750 yard course. Finally, the mixed races were the ·only heats left. Tom and Jane Webb raced in the first heat and Mark Ingalls and Kathy Tessier raced in the third heat. In the first heat, Tom and Jane col1tinued their unbeaten racing streak and finished 200 yards ahead of the next team on a 750 yard course. Then Mark and Kathy had their turn to race. Unfortunately, they were rammed and bumped by several canoes and took on eight inches of water. In ~?pite of the water, they still beat Clarkson across the finish line. The crash necessitated emergency repairs to the boat, which were com- pleted just in time forthe men's final race. The men's race was the first , finaL Dave Kormony and Tom Cummings ran a magnificent race. They edged out Carnegie Mellon on the last leg of the 1000 yard courS'e, by about a boat · length. Third place went to Cornell. Next, the final race was held for the women's team, Kathy Tessier and Jane Webb were again caught up at the beginning. They got untangled and were trailing Carnegie Mellon by several lengths, but Carnegie Mellon's lead was too large and .our women couldn't gain the lead. Union finished second, with HVCC finishing third. Our faeulty team had its chancenext and afterabadstart finished se,cond to CMU, with HVCC third. Finally,. the mixed race was our last to catch up point wise with CMU. Jane Webb, in her 4th race of the day, and Tom Webb were going to race te_ams with racers that had only raced in orie race that day. The race started with Union in the lead to a dose CMU, but the fatique down the backstretch allowed CMU to win by a length, ·Cornell took a close third. With the races completed, once again the team members felt compelled to throw Mark Ingalls, president of the club, into the lake. He was joined by Jane and Tom Webb, Tom being the future club president. I would like to thank Prof. Jewell and his wife and Dave Kormony and Ron Laberge for all their help this year. I would also like to thank Mark Ingalls for organizing the clubs ac- tivities so successfully. Anyone interested l.n joining or just want to find out more about the club call 6732 or 6882. · Angelo, Mazzone, new Pre.sident of the Food Service Executive Association. Mazzone Named President Angelo Mazzone, director of the Union College Food Service, has been named president of the Faod ServJae Executive Association of the Capital District. _Mazzone was installed at an Association dinner ... Thursday, April 24, at Schenectady CoJlrity Community College. The Food Service Executive Association is an international organization wh~e members are food ser- vice e,xecutives in · colleges, hospitals, restaurants, and other similar establishments. ~azzone, Who joined the' Union College staff in 1976 as manager of the Dutch Hbllow Pub' Restawant, is a former assistant dining room manager at Yale University. He received an A.A.S. degree in..hotel and .restaurant management from Schenectady €:ounty Com-· munity College in 1974 and a B.S. degree 'in· hotel and restaurant administration from the University ,of New 'Haven in 1976. . Originally .from Massapequa, N.Y., Mazzone is a '1972 gradl)ate of Berner High School. His restaurant experience includes employment at the Americana Inn, Mario's Restaurant, and the former Hyatt House, all.of Albany. Mazzone was named to his present position at Union in o January, 1978, and is now responsible for the College's total. food service operation. In addition to the Dutch Hollow Pub Restaurant, this includes dining halls in West College and Hale House, the new Banquet Room., ,and the Rathskellar. Mazzone also manages a campus catering servic.e. · He and his wife, Christine, reside in Schenectady. Distribution of lottery numbers--May 5, 6-8 p.m., Seniors-West College Library; 6-9 p.m., Juniors--Davidson Lounge; 6-9 p.m., Sophomores- Fox Lounge. Must have your ID. Blue Skies Over Union,? Co-op interest meeting-May 6, 7 p.m.,. Fox Lounge. All members of your co-op must attend. Co-op Lottery-May 12, 7 p.m., Fox Lounge. Bring ID, Lottery Card, Members of co-op. Singles Lottery-May 13, 6:30 p.m., West College Library. Bring ID, Lottery Card. 'Senior Lottery, Doubles & Suites-May 15, 6:30p.m., West College Li-brary. All roommates bring ID, Lottery Card. Junior Lottery, Doubles & Suites-May 19, 6:30p.m., West College Library. All roommates bring ID, Lottery Card · Sophomor6 Lottery, Doubles & Suites-May 21, 6:30 p.m., West College Library. All roommates bring ID, Lottery Card. -You must have your ID and lo~tery card when c~oosing a mom. -The class member, present with the lowest lottery nmnber will have first pick. -The class member with the next lowest lottery nwnber, and present, will follow. -All roommates MUST BE PRESENT and SIGN CON- TR-ACTS when the room or suite is chosen. - -Two people may claim one half of a suite. · -All occupants of a room or suite who are found to have cheated will lose any rights to the room or suite. Additionally, the person ( s) who cheated will be fined $100. by D. BOOTH The question mark is after the title of this column because, as has been amply proven this week, skies are not always so blue over Union. In fact, they often take on a hue of gray and dark blue, colors which signal rain. But that does not mean that one should despair and curse the weather. There is plenty to do on a rainy day. A rainy day can be divided into two distinct parts: daytime aad nighttime. The reason for this .is that a rainy night outside means that the night inside will be warm and sensual. A rainy day simply means that one's mind must be diverted from the gloom which enters the window and seems to settle everywhere from the sofa to the soul. The day should be spent indoors, for although I enjoy walking in the rain as much as anyone, I do not enjoy the results which ate still likely to be a cold and· sore throat at this time of the year. ' This poses the ·dilemma of exactly what one can do in- doors. What I like to do on a· rainy day is play parlor games: Monopoly, Chess, Chinese Checkers, Dominoes, Hearts, Strip ;Poker, and so on. These games are a delightful way to while away an afternoon. Invite over your favorite companion and prepare the room for the , afternoon. Set up the game of your choice on the floor, Do it Dutch Some'Suggesfions from the Committee: - put your finger in the hol.e iri the dike. .. with wooden shoes - on the vanes of a windmill - she pays for half of it - with a fore.igh tongue - in a bed of tulips -rotate on a windmill '\ surrounded by lots of pillows. When your guest arrives, wet from the drizzle, present them with a bouquet of flowers and a snifter of Brandy. I may add here that even guys like flowers. Just because it is a stereotype --that guys give girls flowers. does not mean\' that there cannot be an exception. Remember that it is better to give than receive, and most guys like their girls to give a lot.' · The flowers that look the best are -daffodils fresh from the garden with the rain drops still on them. Also set up a little snack, cheese and crackers with beer and ale. It can be really fun to play around all afternoon. Of course· after a couple hours of this, one needs refreshing. The best refresher I know is a nice long bath. . '!'he hath is popular in ot@.er . areas of the country like California, where the weather is more conducive to bathing. The ,hot bath and jacuzzi are now enjoying quite a vogue in these. places. But that does not mean that a ·plain simple bath, Union style, cannot be enjoyed. There is definitely a right way to take a bath and a wrong way. The right way begins with the proper equipment. Plenty of hot water is the most important item. Run the water gushingly over water salts and bubble bath. Water salts make the water soft, which means more At the Skellar • • • suds. The bubble bath should be reminiscent of the north country - scents 'of Pine, and Mountain Laurel. While the' bath is running, new bars of soap, 'likewise scented, should be· . pl_pced hy the bath. The • towels shoulq be terry doth and as latge as possible. The most proper apparel for the bath is naturally \au nature!\· ,.. ' however, you will want to rook ..as alluring as possible before you dis.robe. For women, I suggest a long rooe of a satiny material, light . colored, especially blue and green, with a sash around the waist. For . men, a dark terry robe is best. Under no circumstances should you wear a blue robe. Every third guy on this campus has a blue robe. Try black or: even white .• They are strong, bold colors, precisely appropriate for a bath with your partner. Earlier I mentioned that the night has a .sensual quality when it:is raining. The day can be passed in trivialities such as a bath or game playing, .but these are definitely out for nighttime activities. Again the setting. is important. Remember that one doesn't want to waste time trying ·to make the room look sensual when one's guest walks in the door and the bed isn't made yet. (I may add that too broad a hint is · not cool.) Dress Up in something· comfortable, Thursday May 1 9 pm.-Ciosing ! Matts Night For the Aladies, : 4 for $1 l4·oz. wine $1 relaxing cottons and dress jeans. Then order out Chinese. Instead of daffodils , be more romantic. Ask the florist for something sweet scented and sensual, Jike Spanish Jasmine or Heliotrope. After dinner, some brandy, and some light dinner conversation, it's time to get out the baby oil. No, I am not going to ·suggest something kinky. , What I am going to suggest is something to make tlie night as . warm. and dozy as possible. Light the candles around the room, preferably scented candles. Then spread a blanket across the floor, and invite your partner to lay on the blanket. Then ever so slowly begin to rub the baby oil into his or her b~ck. (I hope th~t the reader realizes that this is not fun when one is wearing clothes, therefore a word to the wise . . . ) The best technique is to first rub it in, using_ the palms and fingertips, in an area about as wide as both hands. After it is rubbed in, another technique is ·used. This technique calls for the fingers to be spread and the hand turned as though one was going to make 'a Karate chop. Keeping the fingers extremely loose, begin to hit the partner's back in the already oiled area. The hit should be done in such a way that the fingers .click together, and no pain is felt. Contihue this for abou~ .five ~pinutes, or until the oil appears dry. Then repeat the first step and move to another -area. There are of course other techniques for various other parts of the body, but l am !!ertain thf!t most do not need instruction in these techniques. · So instead of moping aroWld the room the next time it rains, do , something n~w and exciting. Try a new style. • Lib~ What liberal My I arts c rather produc college words of nun overall but c~: studer profes1 lege sh Libera very S' spectr cepted It cer ext en what huma1 a pore· one's consi~ There of the simile some today Andf it has of at form1 sci en educ< invol' least Now sorry plies trod1 speci adva to u expe be co arou cert! shou do tl orth1 it d peri1 shar othe cert bacl sod com of, ' C011l invc invc to lite1 ~ me pro libe the1 you leal I det pru det ch! fee ab< lea re< pre re1 ye: re1 pa yil st1 le1 WI b!i lit re gc ar U: PI tr oi dl tt a] tl Cl fl E g \'1

' OONOORDIENSlS, 1/ay 1, 1980 Page 5 .. Liberal Lf!arning: \ R.oth Discusses Union What is your conception of a. liberal artr~ college? My conception of a liberal arts college is, .. I'm afraid, rather narrow as I ammyself a product of a small \liberal arts college\. To me therefore, the words always imply restriction of number; not necessarily In overall student body nwnber, but c~rtainly in the number of students h1 relation to professors, as a liberal arts col- lege should have small classes. Liberal arts, to me, implies very specifically a rather broad spectrum of traditionally ac- cepted subdivisions of learning. It certainly has to involve an extensive contribution from what we traditionally call the humanities. It has to involve an al)preciable amount of studying one's own native tongue, L·e.,. consideration of literature. Therefore, I think, at least one of them should be taken. Then similarly that should involve some interation with what we today call the social sciences. And finally, my own prejudices, it has to involve Some elements of at least, the most basic in- formation of what we call ''the sciences.\ A true liberal arts education in this century has to involve an introduction to at least some aspect of science. Now it's kind of silly, but I'm sorry. Liberal arts to me, im- plies broad, liberal, in- troductory education, not specialized education and, not advanced education. I don't like to use the phrase \common experience,\ because that is becoming a phrase, at least around here, that connotes a certain orthodoxy. Everyone should do this, everyone should do that. I always worry about orthodoxy, but at the same time it does involve common ex- perience:s, and it does involve a sharing, by students with each other and with faculty, of the certainly common; basic background of our culture and society. I mean that about our country a~d certainly about al) of, Western culture. That common background has got to involve language, it's got to involve history, and above all, to me~ it's got to involve literature. What you have described to me just now seems like a· program very similar to our liberal learning program. Are- there any improvements that you can suggest for our liberal learning program? I haven't thought .about it.in · detail. Certainly it can be im- praved. There are probably details that I would like to see changed. In general however, I feel rather strongly positive about our current liberal learning program if for no othei: reason that it is a vast im- proverp.ent on what I have to regard as a bit of a cop-out a few years back. I think faculty really should have to bear a part of that responsibility of yielding_ too drastically to student reqliests not io have to learn anything that they didn't want to. Therefore, I. think I basically beHeve that our liberal learning program is a return to, ''by Jove, if you are . going to be at Union College, and if you are going to get a Union College degree, we ex- pect you to have been in· troduced to a number of aspects of traditional education.\ It does have an advantage, in that the structure does allow an appreciably. ~reater .freed~, than trad1bona·l or cote- curriculum or, I'm trying to remember what the term was at Harvard when I was at graduate school there, I think._It was general education. It was quite cohesive, with rather limited choices and was very structured. And even then I would rather have that than have it the other way. So yes I'm pleased with what we have done with liberal learning. I think it is a major step in the right direction and the only improvements that I might want to see, ifl thought abOut it, would be slight rearrangements in emphasis, and possibly slightly different numbers that are required. What wo11.ld you say to a student who approached you with the problem that they were totally interested in Biology, and were planning to enter the field of Biology, and bad uo interest what~>oever in taking a .particular liberal learning course? - I would do my best to get them to transfer from Union., to any institution they could .find that might permit such folly. Do you feel that right now Union is fulfilling its function, and is providing a liberal education? No, fulfilling is a strong word .. Striving for, coming closer to, but fulfilling, no~ It is, to me, and this is a very single viewpoint impossible ever to fulfill that goal in four years at the best college. I think we will come closer to fulfilling our primary educational emphasis when you graduate the students with the feeling that they will in fact coqtin ue to educate themselves liberally for the rest of their lives. Do you think that Union is different than other schools at its level, like Vassar or Colgate in relation to pre-professional training? Are we Jl pre- professional college? No, I think that .is a myth. Now, I don't happen to know Vassar specifically and I don't particularly happen to know Colgate but I take strong issue with that particular opinion. Not that many of our students aren't professionally oriented, but rather what I regard as a limited, and if you'll excuse the word, bigoted use of the phrase pre-professional. In fact, the overwhelming majority of Union College students will do something in a rattier specific, advanced way after they leave Union. They may become college professors, they may become physicians, they may become lawyers, or they may go on to further training in engineering. There are many· things, for example, I'm ·a college professor and I happen to think that is a· profession. Amusingly you can think of the word professor and profession as coming from the same stem. I feel that the present comment about pre-professionals- probably does not include the fine students at Union College whose ambitions are to go into higher learning and become college professors. Yet in my opinion that is a profession. I'm sure that is true of most students at Colgate and students- at Vassar, therefore I don't see us as that different, and I do believe that the word pre-professional is often used at Union as a word, directed against certain individuals and as an excuse for certain kinds of behavior. As the pre-medical advisor you come in contact with students who want to go to medical school. I know from personal e~perience tbat some students view Union as a vehicle, to getto medicalschool . and are11't really concerned with the type of .liberal education, or quality education that they receive: What do you think about this? I think you and I would disagree quantitatively, .perhaps maybe qualitatively. I ,personally do not run .into a large number of students whose ·only concern is getting into medical school. I don't doubt that many of the students who come here, quite seriously consider the impact ~f a Union education on future goals as opposed to other institutes and find it superior. One, I do think a majority of students are somewhat concerned, Secondly, it has been a standard joke for as long as I have been involved in any way with education that education is the one thing in America that Americans don't seem to wantto gettheitmonies worth of. And indeed when I was in college, when there were far more rigorous distribution pragrams, requirements, etc. I was absolutely amazed I was given my cho~ce. I badto pick Economics or Political Science. I had to take this History orthat Hfstory, I had to pick this English or that English, if there was that much choice. But even at that time, lllost of us who were college students objected to it. I recall, personally being bitterly disappointed about halfway through my sophomore year when it suddenly occurred to me, one aftemoon, while glancing through the catalogue that I could never i.n four years take all the courses in the catalogue that I wanted to take. I'm sorry' your question bothers me, because it wasn't really a question. It was . a statement of an accepted mythology at Union College because we have students who are pr~professional who orient themselves for professions. We have students who are quite willing to be illiterate, who are quite willing to be un- dereducated etc. The way you phrased your question seemed Dr. Will Roth almost to be an acceptance of that myth. And I don't believe it. A study that Prof. Nichols made two or three years ago confirmed that Biology majors and pre-meds at Union College, if you want to take that par- ticular group, have a broader involvement in courses outside of their discipline than any other major at Union. In fact, and I don't like to toss stones, and I don't even like to begin this kind of argument, but if anything, I believe that the statistics would probably demonstrate that students in the hwnanities, not aimed at what one would call the traditional professions, of medicine, law, business etc., tend to have more restrictions. Now, I won't quibble why, and I won't quibble how broad they are, but in all due respects I just don't think that the statement that pre-professional students are narrow is valid. I'm not necessarily saying· that they are narrow but . . . That they are not interested in the quality of education? Right. I would certainly agree that relatively few pre-professional students deliberately say \I want to find the three hardest courses that I can possibly put together.\ I do not think it is anti-intellectual, to say \I very much want to take this par- ticular course in Philosophy. I very much want to take this particular course. in English and I am dying to ·take this particular course in Political Science with Professor X. On the other hand, I know all three of them are very demanding and for me it would take an inordinate amount of time to do well, therefore I am not going to take all three in one term.\ I don't think that is anti- intellectuaL Now, the fact that there are a certain number of students who undoubtably seek out the easiest possible schedules, or what , they per- ceive to be the easiest possible courses, particularly when it comes to the distinction to get the grades, of course we have them. I don't think they are the majority of Union students and I do not think we have any more, if as many of them on this campus, as you would find elsew}lere. I happen to think our students are great. I am very, very happy with the majority of the students at Union. I think we have strong students but sure, by my standards, you're all illiterate. No, quite seriously, because in my generation like it or not, in high, school there was enormous emphasis on mastering the mother tongue. I don't know what happened to that. What pleases me is the Continued on page_ 8 Good for you! Time to get out and get into shape. And, with lots of exercise, well balanced meals are essential for good health. lfs nice to know that a Domino's Pizza is not only very convenient, but also very nutritious. We use only the highest quality, roo% natural ingredients .. Fast, Free ·Delivery 127 Nett Terrace 372-4441 Our drivers carry less than $20 Limited delivery area ® Copynght 1980 Dommo's P1zza.lnc ~---------------------------------, I 2 FREE CANS I I OF PEPSI! I II 2 Free Cans of Pepsi I with any Pizza I I Expires May a, 1980. 'I Fast, free delivery. I w~~~ 1 I 372-4441' ! I ••. · . CQupo.n Is stated value off gross price , •.. • , · includlfl!i any applicable sales tax. ·--------------------------~-------J

Pag~ 6 A scer:~e from \A. Ha·iry Ape\ The Will. Roth Band: OONOORPIENSlS, May 1 1 1980 ur~ I Play Review:_ O'Neill'S,. 'Ape\ Triumphs by PAUL GROSSMAN Eugene O'Neill's play, \The Hairy Ape\ is one of · the . famous author's oldest, most inventive, and one of the most difficult to produce. Director Daro Beninati's production of the play succeeds beautifully because it managed to find the right combination, the com- bination that all productions look for: an able director who knows just what he wants to do with the author's work, a production crew that provides the necessary setting for the author's ideas, ·and a cast that knows how to take advantage of the first two and communicate with the audience. The story is timeless. Yank, a steker an a big luxury liner, is made aware of the differences in class and, consequently, his lowly station in society. Yank never realized he had a pl~ce in society prior to this revelation, and spends the rest of the play finding out exactly where in society he \belongs''. their parts with the energy necessary to carry thei.r characters through the often unorthodox scenes that the play calls for. The shift from one scene to the next often brought about a change in style, from the partially pantomimed, yet realistic opening scene to the surrealistic presentation of New York's Fifth Avenue. The supporting characters in the play all handle these different styles adeptly, often par- ticularly well as was the case with Robert Illlrie as a singing stoker and Carol Ghinger as the heiress's aunt. , / I I'm A Bio Man I \The Hairy Ape\ is an am- bitious production and is in~ frequently done because of the many ::;pecial effects and set- tings that the production calls for. ~Mr. Beninati used his award winning set (see last week's Concordiensis) to -work around mimy of the problems that the play normally presents. The play incorporates many theatrical styles, all of which were handled easily hv the cast. Dan Lacoff as Yank was granted the kind of part that actors dream about. Reminiscent of male leads like those in \The King & I,\ \Man of La Mancha\ and ''Zorba the Greek,\ Yank commands the play. Dan, in only his third production here at Union, managed to capture all aspects c:~f-the highly complex character of Yank. From the obvious New· York accent to the sensitive and - confused man behind the beastly exterior, Lacoff's Yank beautifully epitomized the struggle that O'Neill was trying to present. byGREGR. and THE MENDELS Will Roth-lead guitar, lead vocals; Margaret Schadler, backup vocals; Barbara Boyer- - backup vocals; Barbara Rappaport--backup vocals; George Smith-alto and tenor sax; Henry Butzel-trombone, bagpipes; George Butterstein- bass; Ray Rappaport-drums; Carl George--spoons, wash- board, triangle; Michael Frohlich--sitar.; Frank Lam- bert--mini-moog, melotron, player piano; Peter Tobiessen- rhythm guitar, rhythm .. sitar; Twitty Styles--harmonica, tuba; Karen Williams-banjo; Watson and Crick (Courtesy of RNA Records and Tapes)- glock-n-schpiels and congas on \Talking 'Bout My Spontaneous Regeneration\; Marie-Luise Leder-Schmidt-vibes; Helen Birecka--flugelhorn; Pat, Carol, Stan, Dixie-road crew. c 1980 S&E Inc., a division of Testosterone Records. ~ngineer--T.H. Morgan. Produced by Greg Mendelowitz. Side 1-I Wanna Hold Your Pine Vole; I Left My Heart In Formal Calcium; What A Pre Med Believes; Come On Baby, Light My Bunsen Burner. Side 2-1 Am The Egg Man; SS 016 Freeze Out; Born To Titrate; Rock Arthropod; Reagent Rag. Side 3-Huntley Road; You're Once, Twice, Three Times A Lagamorph; Bridge Over Troubled Saline; I Can't Get No Conjugation. Side 4--Talkin' 'Bout My Spontaneous Regeneration; Kleinfilter Shuffle; How Deep Is Your Uvula; I'm Just A Lab Technician In A Rock 'n' Roll Band. AU songs written and com- posed by Will Roth on S&E Records and Tapes. Album Review The Will Roth Band's new albumin combines their early influences ~.(Welsh whaTing tunes) with punk, new wave, and rock-n-roll. Their last albumin, \Darkness On The Edge Of The Ryon Room,\ S()ld 70 million copies worldwide. The addition of Carl \Rand()m Drift\ George on spoons ,and washboard now adds a new dimension to the concept ()f rock-jazz fusion. Twitty Styles, also a new member, integrates his •hard driving harmonica quite successfully. Their sound is unique, and WilfRoth's lyrics are poignant, powerful, heart wrenching.. and quite patent. The Will Roth Band com- pletes what Buddy Holly, The Beatles, and The Von Trapp Family Singers started so many years ago. Will Roth-the future of R()ck· n-Roll. (See next month's Rollio.g Stone for an interview with 'Will Roth, George '-'Blades\ Eut- terstein, and Frank \Post Partem\ Lambert). Tour Review The long awaited . 'RlbUIIlin from the Will Roth Band -was released last week at the closing of their attendance record- shattering tour of Europe and the Galapagos Islands. 'rilE release was scheduled t() coincide with the kickoff oftheir unprecedented 26 city U.S. tour-, Hematoxylin Over America. These reporters had the pleasure- of attending the final Galapagos gfg. Will Roth (formerly of \Roth et·al,\ the trio HThe Chords ofWill Roth,,., and the Australian group, \'f:he Surreal Pineal\) worked the audience into a riotous frenzy with the exhibition of his hard.- hitting lead guitar work and lascivious stage acrobatics. He was backed · up by his dear colleagues, \The J Street Band.\ One highlight of the concert was a six-minute sitar solo by Mike \Mad Dog\ Frohlich that kept the audience transfixed. After playing seven encores, Ray Rappaport mercilessly destroyed his drum set, leaving both bass drums into the audience. Throughout the performance, National Guardsmen and Pinkertons had been able to hold back the crowd, but Ray's ~xuberance was the last straw. The crowd, resembling a huge slime mold, converged upon the stage. Roth's · stage costume was ripped to shreds. The band narrowly excaped injury. In the middle of the semi-. autobiographical tune, l!!J'alkin' 'Boul My Spontaneous Regeneration,\ Roth . brought the house down by placing his smoking Stratocaster aside, dropping to his left knee (while cradling a piece of his famous exploding chalk in his right hand), and relating the trauma he went through as a youth. His parents wanted hiin to go to Swarthmore, then Harvard, become a neuroendocrinologist and teach at Harvard. But no, he knew in his heart that there was nothing but Rock-n-Roll. At the close of the concert, the crowd carried .off \Mad Dog\ Frohlich and refused to release him until he had plucked \America the Botanical\ on his axe. Upcoming Tour Dates Madison Square Garden, June 17·21; Nassau Coliseum- June 23-25; N.J. Palladium- June 26-30; Glen Falls Civic Center, July 2-5; Harvard 1\:ledical School, July, 16-21; Jack in the Box Parking ·Lot, -· July 23·28; SS 016, August 2-6 .. . ' The first scene; in 'the fi~eman's forecastle of the ship, introduces the audience to the crew, a melting pot of sailors from different nationalities. The leader of the motley crew is obviously Yank, who clearly asserts himself as the king in the hell that is the stokehole. The scene is, however, dominated by a magnificent monologue from the character of Paddy, flawlessly played by Jeff Paige. The monologue he delivers tells of the . old days when men and their ships and the sea were \one\, and that they belonged together. Paige's skill with accents and expertise as a character actor were perfectly suited for the role. Each night of the · play, an audible silence fell over the audience as old sailor detivered his speech. The scenes following the opening scene featured Ilene Markay as the millionaire heiress who ·fires Yank's desire to find his place in society, and John Gaines as the fellow stoker_· who forces Yank to face his place in society's lower class. Both Gaines and Markay handle Director Beninati's set was beautifully functional as was the expressive lighting design: The use of sueh special effects as lighting projections and plastic face masks found their place in the overall style of the production .. The technical skill of Director Benin'at1 combined with his talented cast to make \The Hairy Ape\ at Union an excellent production of a dif- ficult play. It is interesting to note that last Sunday afternoon, the play- was videotaped by Cable Channel16 to be aired sometime in the future. A copy of the tape is being sent to Hollywood to serve as a reference for an upcoming movie version of \The Hairy Ape\ with Edward Asner in the role of Yank. 1st Act: Rob Imrie and Sharon Rubi.ri 2nd Act: Rich Decker and Rich Hope MC: Nat Barandes · S.hows at 9 8c 11 p.m. Tickets on.sa.le at 8 p.m .. in Carnegie.' The War Game, (Great Britain,' 1965), Showing May 7, a p.m. in SS016. This forceful pseudo-documentary presents a vivid preview of nuclear war in l:n,gland. Using amateur actors and a newsreel visual style, director Peter Watkins shows us the flashes of nuclear explosions·; the fire·storms . incinerating cities and people, the grisly effects of radiation sickness, the psychological and social breakdown of the survivors., and their submersion in chaos and apathy. The film is \calculatedly brutal and unnerving\; it was ori.ginally produced for the BBC bu.t_never shown on television because of its horrifvina realism. . . The Octavo singers will present Mendelssohn's Elijah- -an May 17, 1980. Saturday at Union College Memor.ial Chapel. The concert will be with orchestra and profess:ional soloists under the direction of Mr. George G. Moross. The concert begins at 8 p.m. Tickets are available at - the do9r or at CBO at Colonie or the Empire St!3te Plaza. cul1 .}\for byROI Grace Slic Airplane and, fame, has nc obscure gra~ success and f achievement, is a solo ••Dreams.\ . albums go, ''I above a\!.,.erag1 bordering on The album which can I departure fr< with the A: Starship. T strumentatior of the songs impressed. With the Slick's voice quality,_.-but i raw energy S< In the songw1 the idealism tarized the A fallen by th Grace deals broad, yet pe as love, time Just like a is mysteriou: simple. Abov the voices t« they have to I that they shot alone. ''U Y< what you're gotnomindo it Go\) \ShE because she damn strong. Way\). The title tr: a moderate arrangemer chestral. In c with the A Starship, C complement« usual guitar1 horns and a well. The fi album, sung voice, are at believe in m in dreams.\ There is match the n song. \El Di by a catchy there is eve: the periphe wonder wha1 as she sings feel your po \Face th opinion, is t' album. Grac past and : chance \to storm ami Unfortunate! credits on regarding n is playing l.ea deserves sp1 Monc Wed1 F1rst Thu.r Hea~

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, May 1, 1980 . . :~:_:._· .. :.-....·.~-~·· .. ·· .. ~·· .. · .. :·_· . .':''-;: ··. ,, ·: ·.·.'·. ,.:.·. '· .-.:_ ... : ..... ··'.:.·· .·•.·. ·.· . .. ·: · ... _,::. culture >- ..0 0 +- 0 .!: a.. A scene from \A Hairy Ape\ The Will Roth Band: Pla:r Review: O'Neill's 'Ape' Triumphs by PAUL GROSSMAN F:ugene O'Neill's play, \The Hairy Ape\ is one of the famous author's oldest, most inventive. and one of the most difficult to produce. Director Daro Beninati's production of the play succeeds beautifully because it managed to find the right eombination. the com- bination that all productions look for: an able director who knows just what he wants to do with the author's work, a production crew that provides the necessary setting for the author's ideas, and a cast that knows how to take advantage of the first two and communicate with the audience. The story is timeless. Yank, a stoker ~m a big luxury liner, is made aware of the differences in class and, consequently, his lowly station in society. Yank never •·ealized he had a place in society prior to this revelation, and spends the rest of the play finding out exactly where in society he \belongs\. their parts with the energy necessary to carry their characters through the often unorthodox scenes that the play calls for. The shift from one scene to the next often brought about a change in style, from the partially pantomimed, yet realistic opening scene to the surrealistic presentation uf New York's J<'ifth Avenue. The supportiHg characters in the play all handle these different styles adeptly, often par- ticularly well as was the case with Robert Imrie as a singing stoker· and Carol Ghinger as the hei·ress's aunt. • I'm A Bio Man I \The Hairy Ape\ is an am- bitious production and is in- frequently done because of the many special effects and set- tings that the production calls for. Mr. Beninati used his award winning set (see last week's Concordiensis) to work around many of the problems that the play normally presents. The play incorporates many theatrical styles, all of which were handled easilv bv the cast. Dan Lacoff as Yank was granted the kind of part that actors dream about. Reminiscent of male leads like these in \The King & I,\ \Man of La Mancha\ and \Zorba the Greek,\ Yank commands the play. Dan, in only his third production here at Union, managed to capture all aspects of the highly complex character of Yank. From the obvious New York accent to the sensitive and confused man behind the beastly eld:erior, Lacoff's Yank bea utifuUy epitomized the strugglethat O'Neill was trying to present. byGREGR. and THE MENDELS Will Roth-lead guitar, lead vocals; Margaret Schadler, backup vocals; Barbara Boyer- -backup vocals; Barbara Rappaport--backup vocals; George Smith-alto and tenor sax; Henry Butzel-trombone, bagpipes; George Butterstein- bass; Ray Rappaport-drums; Carl George--spoons, wash- board, triangle; Michael Frohlich--sitar; Frank Lam- bert--mini-moog, melotron, player piano; Peter Tobiessen- rhythm guitar, rhythm .sitar; Twitty Styles--harmonica, tuba; Karen Williams-banjo; Watson and Crick (Courtesy of RNA Records and Tapes)- glock-n-schpiels and congas on \Talking 'Bout My Spontaneous Regeneration\; Marie-Luise Leder-Schmidt-vibes; Helen Birecka--flugelhorn; Pat, Carol, Stan, Dixie-road crew. c 1980 S&E Inc., a division of Testosterone Records. Engineer--T.H. Morgan. Produced by Greg Mendelowitz. Side 1-I Wanna Hold Your Pine Vole; I Left My Heart In Formal Calcium; What A Pre :Wed Believes; Come On Baby, Light My Bunsen Burner. Side 2-I Am The Egg Man; SS 016 Freeze Out: Born To Titrate; Rock Arthropod; Reagent Rag. Side 3-Huntley Road; You're Once, Twice, Three Times A Lagamorph; Bridge Over Troubled Saline; I Can't Get No Conjugation. Side 4--Talkin' 'Bout My Spontaneous Regeneration; Kleinfilter Shuffle: How Deep Is Your Uvula; I'm Just A Lab Technician In A Rock 'n' Roll Band. All songs written and com- posed by Will Roth on S&E Records and Tapes. Album Review The Will Roth Band's new albumin combines their early influences (Welsh whaling tunes) with punk, new wave, and rock-n-roll. Their last albumin, \Darkness On The Edge Of The Ryon Room,\ sold 70 million copies worldwide. The addition of Carl \Random Drift\ George on spoons and washboard now adds a new dimension to the concept of rock-jazz fusion. Twitty Styles, also a new member, integrates his hard driving harmonica quite successfully. Their sound is unique, and Will Roth's lyrics are poignant, powerful, heart wrenching, and quite patent. The Will Roth Band com- pletes what Buddy Holly, The Beatles, and The Von Trapp Family Singers started so many years ago. Will Roth-the future of Rock- n-Roll. ISee next month's Rolling Stone for an interview with Will Roth, George \Blades\ But- terstein, and Frank \Post Partem\ Lambert). Tour Review The long awaited albumin from the Will Roth Band was released last week at the closing of their attendance record- shattering tour of Europe and the Galapagos Islands. The release was scheduled to coincide with the kickoff of their unprecedented 26 city U.S. tour, Hematoxylin Over America. These reporters had the pleasure of attending the final Galapagos gig. Will Roth lformerly of \Roth et al,\ the trio \The Chords of Will Roth,\ and the Australian group, \The Surreal Pineal\) worked the audience into a riotous frenzy with the exhibition of his hard- hitting lead guitar work and lascivio1:1s stage acrobatics. He was backed up by his dear colleagues, \The J Street Band.\ One highlight of the concert was a six-minute sitar solo by Mike \Mad Dog\ Frohlich that kept the audience transfixed. After playing seven encores, Ray Rappaport mercilessly destroyed his drum set, leaving both bass drums into the audieHce. Throughout the performance, National Guardsmen and Pinkertons had been able to hold back the crowd, but Ray's exuberance was the last straw. The crowd, resembling a huge slime mold, converged upon the stage. Roth's stage costume was ripped to shreds. The band narrowly excaped injury. In the middle of the semi-- autobiographical tune, '-!._Talkin' 'Bout My Spontaneous Regeneration,'' Roth brought the house down by placing his smoking Stratocaster aside, dropping to his left knee (while cradling a piece of his famous exploding chalk in his right hand), and relating the trauma he went through as a youth. His parents wanted him to go to Swarthmore, then Harvard, become a neuroendocrinologist and teach at Harvard. But no, he knew in his heart that there was nothing but Rock-n-Roll. At the close of the concert, the crowd carried off \Mad Dog\ Frohlich and refused to release him until he had plucked \America the Botanical\ on his axe. Upcoming Tour Dates Madison Square Garden, June 17-21; Nassau Coliseum- June 23-25; N.J. Palladium- June 26-30; Glen Falls Civic Center, July 2-5; Harvard Medical School, July 16-21; Jack in the Box Parking Lot, July 23-28; SS 016, August 2-6. The first scen.e,- in the fireman's forecastle of the ship, introduces the audience to the crew, a melting pot of sailors from different nationalities. The leader of the motley crew is obviously Yank, who clearly asserts himself as the king in the hell that is the stokehole. The scene is, however, dominated by a magnificent monologue from the character of Paddy, flawlessly played by Jeff Paige. The monologue he delivers tells of the old days when men and their ships and the sea were \one\, and that they belonged together. Paige's skill with accents and expertise as a character actor were perfectly suited for the role. Each night of the play, an audible silence fell over the audience as old sailor delivered his speech. The scenes following the opening scene featured Ilene Markay as the millionaire heiress who fires Yank's desire to find his place in society, and John Gaines as the fellow stoker · who forces Yank to face his place in society's lower class. Both Gaines and Mar kay handle Director Beninati's set was beautifully functional as was the expressive lighting design: The use of such special effects as lighting projections and plastic face masks found their place in the overall style of the production. The technical skill of Director Beninati combined with his talented cast to make \The Hairy Ape\ at Union an excellent production of a dif- ficult play. It is interesting to note that last Sunday afternoon, the play was videotaped by Cable Channel 16 to be aired sometime in the future. A copy of the tape is being sent to Hollywood to serve as a reference for an upcoming movie version of ''The Hairy Ape\ with Edward Asner in the role of Yank. 1st Act: Rob Imrie and Sharon Rubin 2nd Act: Rich Decker and Rich Hope MC: Nat Barandes Shows at 9 & 11 p.m. Tickets on sale at a p.m. in Carnegie. The War Game, (Great Brita in, 1965), Showing May 7, 8 p.m. in SS016.This forceful pseudo-documentary presents a vivid preview of nuclear war in England. Using amateur actors and a newsreel visual style, director Peter Watkins shows us the flashes of nuclear explosions, the fire storms incinerating cities and people, the grisly effects of radiation sickness, the psychological and social breakdown of the survivors, and their submersion in chaos and apathy. The film is \calculatedly brutal and unnerving\; it was originally produced for the BBC but never shown on television because of its horrifying realism. The Octavo singers will present Mendelssohn's Elijah on May 17, 1980. Saturday at Union College Memorial Chapel. The concert will be with orchestra and professi·ona.l soloists under the direction of Mr _ George G. Moross. The concert begins at 8 p.m. Tickets are available at thedo9r or at CBOat Colonie or the Empire State Plaza. cul1 Album j Mor by ROI t;race Sli< Airplane and· fame. has m obscure gra: .;tJl'CeSS and f ;wtlievement, 1 ~ a solo \llreams.\ albums go,· 'l above averag bordering on The album , whtch can · depart1:1re fr~ with the A Starship. 'I strumentatiot of the songs impressed. With the Slick's voice quality, but i raw energy sc In the songw1 the idealisn tarized the A fallen by tt Grace deals broad, yet pe as love, time .Just like a is mysteriou simple. Abm the voices t1 thev have to that they sho1 alone. \If yc what you're got no mind o it Go\ l \She because she damn strong. Wav\ ). The title tr a moderate arrangemer chestral. In c with the l Starship, C complementc i usual guitar: horns and a well. The fi album, sung voice, are at believe in m in dreams.\ There is match the n song. \El Di by a catchy there is eve the periphe wonder wha as she sings feel your po \Face th opinion, is t album. Gra~ past and chance \to storm and Unfortunate credits on regarding n isplaying lee: deserves sp Mon1 Tues Wedt Firs1 Thur Hea'

· OONOOBDIE.NSIS, May 1, 1980 ,. culture Album Review: More From Grace Slick byROBSRT FOX Grace Slick, of Jefferson Airplane andJ eUerson Starship fame, has not faded into the obscure ,gray area between success and failure. Her latest achievement, on RCA records, is a solo album titled ''Dreams.\ As .far .as new albums go, \Dreams'' is a little above.avj;lrage, with a few songs bordering on very gooq. The album contains material which can be considered a departure .from Grace's days with the Airplane and the Starship. The diverse in- . strumentation present in many of the songs left this reviewer impressed. ~~ wouldn't be surprised if it were GI\ace but then again, I wouldn't be too shocked if it were J orma either. Slick gets back · to more typical, heavy rhythm guitar, four beats to a measure rock'n roll on ''Angel of Night\; it sounds a lot like Starship music. . . The last song on side one, ''Seasons,\ is interesting. There is a verse characteristic of each season, and it always returns to \but the children · dance, and sing, as ifthe time were .spring~' After the last verse, Grace decRies that what-is. geod for the children is go.od .for her, and so enters into the joyful finale. \So · I will laugh, and dance, and watch the children sing, and I will have a chance of finding joy in everything.\ . The flipside opens with a lament about a loser who thinks logically, but not realistically: ''If it weren't for time, I'd never be defeated.\ \Do it the Hard Way'' is a powerful story, and Slick ends it with a warning that the loser she is talking about could be anyone, \She's the only one who doesn't know that she's the fool. So now I'm asking you, what wnl you do, if you become the fool?\ ''Full Moon Man\ is about a past love, and Slick decrees that \love goes on forever.\ \Let it Go\ and \Garden of Man,\ the last two songs on the album serve to reiterate points previously made: \When the spirit feels a need to wander, let it go,\ \Come in through your dreams, and follow them · wbereverthey may lead.\ ''Let it Go\ is a slow number, and Slick's voice is as steady as any veteran's. \Dreams\ should be con- sidered a success from Grace Slick's point of view. After too many years of silence, she has released only her second solo album in a long career. Her rebellious. idealism seems dulled; she is a romantic and a philosopher. Most importantly, she's back with another solo effort. Let's keep our fingers crossed. With the passi:ng years, Slick's voice has improved in quality,.--bnt it still J;etains, the raw energy so vital to her style. In the songwriting department, the idealism which charac- tarized the Airplane years has fallen by the wayside. Now Grace deals realistically with broad, yet personal topics such as love, time, and friends. Just like a dream, the album is mysterious, yet deceptively simple. Above all else, I hear the voices telling people that they have to be themselves, but that they should not try to get by alone. ''If' you always do just what you're told, then you've got no mind. of your own,\ (\Let it Go\) \She's got no friends, because she thinks she's 'SO damn strong.\ (\Do it the Hard Way\). 6.Rms Riv Vu The title trace moves along at a moderate pace, and the arrangement is almost or- chestral. In contrast to her days with the Airplane ·and the Starship, Grace;s voi.ce is complemented by not only the usual gl:litars and bass, but by horns and a string section as well. The first words on the album, sung in a ~soft, sincere voice, are attention getters: \I believe in magic, and I believe in dreams.\ There is Spanish music to match the name of the second song. \El Diablo\ is dominated by a catchy Spanish guitar and there is even a tambourine in the periphery. You have to wonder what Grace is thinking as she sings \El Diablo, I can feel your power in my soul.\ \Face the Wind,\ in my opinion, is the highlight of the album. Grace sings about- her past and asks .for another chance \to face the raging storm and test . its hands.\ Unfortunately, there are no credits on the album cover ~egarding musicians. Whoever !splaying lead guitar on this one deserves special recognition. I On May 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, \6 RMS RIV VU\ will be presented in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Bob Randall's highly-successful comedy has appeared on Broadway and as a television movie starring Alai} Aida and Carol Burnett. Imagine apartment-hunting at Union and getting locked in the ·building with a beautiful woman. This fantasy originates in this play, in which a happily married man, Paul, is trapped inside an apartment with a happily-married man, Paul, is lWRU,C 90.9fm*stereo WRUC Tentative Album at Ten Monday Gordon Lightfoot \Dream Street Rose\ Tuesday Chick Corea \Tap Street'' Wednesday Van Ha.len \Women and Children First'' . Thursday Grateful Dead ''Grateful Dead in Heaven'' trapped mside an apartment with a happily-married woman, Anne. The rest of the plot is easy to construe, a rivalry for the same apartment evolves into a romantic relationship. A series of uncanny coincidences makes the romance simultaneously warm and funny. Stephan Kilgore, a junior at Union, directs the play. This will be Stephan's first directing effort, although his credits include acting, costuming, and stage management in eleven Continued on page . 8 Page 7 The Men and Women's Glee Club in ;performance Imrie Or Wilson? by JOANNE STEIN On Sunday, April 27, the Union College Men's and Women's Glee Clubs performed for an enthusiastic audience of parents, relatives ahd friends in Memorial Chapel. . The men sang a beautiful version of Loch Lomond featuring Robert Imrie. Included in the women's pieceS< was ''Ave Verum Cor- pus\ by Poulenc. Then the two groups combined for three selections ending on a very exciting note with Handel's \Hallelujah\. The Glee Clubs were under Wi);(_rHEATRE PRESENTS the dit~ection of Hugh Allen Wilson, or should I say :both Hugh Allen Wilsons. After the men sang, Robert Imrie cleverly \transfol\rned\ into Hugh and imitated his stage performance and conducting. Everyone was amused by _this, especially the Women's Glee Club. The men on stage tried very hard to keep .straight faces. After the concert, Glee Club members and parents attended a reception given by President Morris. It was a very nice way to end Parent's Weekend. A Play by Barbara Graham Directed by Caymichael Patten Setting by Edward T. Gianfrancesco lighting by Craig Evans Costumes by Zoe Brown Production Stage fv1arrager Paul Mills Holmes ' Wtth Fran Bnll • Mary D1veny • Peter Fnedman • Adam Stolanlky • Paul Z1met April24- May 18 . Thursday -Saturday at8 P.M.. Sunday at 3 PM. WPA THEATRE 138 t:=ifth Avenue (at 19th Street), New York 10011 RESERVATIONS: (212) 691-2274 Admtsston $5.00JTDF Voucher plus $2 00 AEA Approved Funded fi!Oil P•ofrl Thea1r~LCode Product•Otl Mitch's .Maze

OONOORDIENSIS, May 1, 1980 culture Album Review: More From Grace Slick by ROBERT FOX l;race Slick, of Jefferson Airplane aNd Jefferson Starship fame, has net faded into the ttbscure gray area between ,tll'cess and failure. Her latest al'hievement, on RCA records, ~~ a solo album titled \[>reams.\ As far as new albums go, \Dreams\ is a little above average, with a few songs bordering @n very good. The album contains material which can be considered a departure from Grace's days with the Airplane and the Starship. The diverse in- strumentation present in many of the songs left this reviewer impressed. wouldn't be s11rprised if it were Grace, but then again., I wouldn't be too shocked if it were Jorma either. Slick gets back to more typical, heavy rhythm guitar, four beats to a measure rock'n roll on \Angel of Night\; it sounds a lot like Star ship music. The last song on side one, \Seasons is interesting. There is a verse characteristic of each season, and it always returns to \but the children dance, and sing, as if the time were spring:' After the last verse, Grace decides that what is good for the children is good for her, and so enters into the joyful finale. \So I will laugh, an.d dance, and watch the children sing, and I will have a chan.ce of finding joy in everything.\ The flipside opens with a lament about a loser who thinks logically, but not realistically: \If it weren't for time, I'd never be defeated.\ \Do it the Hard Way\ is a powerful story, and Slick ends it with a warning that the loser she is talking about could be anyone. \She's the only one who doesn't know that she's the fool. So now I'm asking you, what will you do, if you become the fool?\ \Full Moon Man\ is about a past love. and Slick decrees that •·Jove goes on forever.\ \Let it Go\ and \Garden of Man,\ the last two songs on the album serve to reiterate points previously made: \When the spirit feels a need to wander, let it go,\ \Come in through your dreams, and follow them wherever they may lead.\ \Let it Go\ is a slow number, and Slick's voice is as steady as any veteran's. \Dreams\ should be con- sidered a success from Grace Slick's point of view. After too many years of silence, she has released only her second solo album in a long career. Her rebellious. idealism seems dulled; she is a romantic and a philosopher. Most importantly, she's back with another solo effort. Let's keep our fingers crossed. With the passing years, Slick's voice has improved in quality, but it still retains the raw energy so vital to her style. In the songwriting department, the idealism which charac- tarized the Airplane years has fallen by the wayside. Now Grace deals realistically with broad, yet personal topics such as love, time, and friends. .Just like a dream, the album is mysterious, yet deceptively simple. Above all else, I hear the voices telling people that they have to be themselves, but that they should not try to get by alone. \If you always do just what you're told, then you've got no mind of your own,\ (\Let it Go\) \She's got no friends, because she thinks she's so damn strong.\ (\Do it the Hard Wav\ ). 6.Rms Riv Vu The title trace moves along at a moderate pace, and the arrangement is almost or- chestral. In contrast to her days with the Airplane and the Starship, Grace's voice is complemented by not only the ' usual guitars and bass, but by horns and a string section as well. The first words on the album, sung in a soft, sincere \'oice, are attention getters: ''I believe in magic, and I believe in dreams. \ On May 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, \6 RMS RIV VU\ will be presented in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Bob Randall's highly-successful comedy has appeared on Broadway and as a television movie starring Alan Alda and Carol Burnett. Imagine apartment-hunting at Union and getting locked in the building with a beautiful woman. This fantasy originates in this play, in which a happily married man, Paul, is trapped inside an apartment with a happily-married man, Paul, is trapped mside an apartment with a happily-married woman, Anne. The rest of the plot is easy to construe, a rivalry for the same apartment evolves into a romantic relationship. A series of uncanny coincidences makes the romance simultaneously warm and funny. Stephan Kilgore, a junior at Union, directs the play. This will be Stephan's first directing effort, although his credits include acting, costuming, and stage management in eleven Continued on page 8 There is Spanish music to match the name of the second song. \El Diablo\ is dominated by a catchy Spanish guitar and there is even a tambourine in the periphery. You have to wonder what Grace is thinking as she sings \El Diablo, I can feel your power in my soul.\ Acid Rain \Face the Wind,\ in my opinion, is the highlight of the album. Grace sings about her past and asks for another chance \to face the raging storm and test its hands.\ Unfortunately, there are no credits on the album cover regarding musicians. Whoever !splaying lead guitar on this one deserves special recognition. I As we sit in fhls dark corner, Our forehead in the palm, The door slams, . And rumbles. ~ the murmurs1 ·Creep, No trees on the- leaves, ·A b,ark plerces the web, Cold wet stont\:t · Petrified aoffins. S.tUln.ess, · Cement/ Dead oxygen and birds, The year. the trees didn't bloom, WRUC Tentative Album at Ten Monday Gordon Lightfoot \Dream Street Rose\ Tuesday Chick Corea \Tap Street\ Wednesday Van Hal en \Women and Children First'/ Thursday Grateful Dead \Grateful Dead in Heaven'/ Spring never came, Walking vprlght, The bold sweet tree, Green core, Souring ln the guts, Knowledge, Something about the douds, Aura of the dead, Ganow-tree and the cross, Oa,mned trees, Wet bones, The soiled .gratitude, Mud. · --Wayne GodUn '80 Page 7 arts The Men and Women's Glee Club in performance Imrie Or Wilson? by JOANNE STEIN On Sunday, April 27, the Union College Men's and Women's Glee Clubs performed for an enthusiastic audience of parents, relatives and friends in Memorial Chapel. The men sang a beautiful version of Loch Lomond featuring Robert Imrie. Included in the women's pieces· was \Ave Verum Cor- pus\ by Poulenc. Then the two groups combined for three selections ending on a very exciting note with Handel's \Hallelujah\. The Glee Clubs were under WI ,>,\THEATRE PRESENTS the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson, or should I say both Hugh Allen Wilsons. After the men sang, Robert Imrie cleverly \traNsformed\ into Hugh and imitated his stage performance and conducting. Everyone was amused by this, especiaily the Women's Glee Club. The men on stage tried very hard to keep straight faces. After the concert, Glee Club members and parents attended a reception given by President Morris. It was a very nice way to end Parent's Weekend. l)_:i.~ LLi.l! t! llii A Play by Barbara Graham Dtrected by Caymichael Patten Setttng by Edward T Gianfrancesco Lighting by Craig Evans Costumes by Zoe Brown Production Stage fvlariager Pau I Mills Holmes Fran Brill • Mary Dtveny • PeterFr1edman • Adam StolarS'ky • PauiZ1me1 April 24 - May 18 Thursday - Salurday at 8 PM Sunday at 3 PM WPATHEATRE 138 Frith Avenue !at 19th Street!. New York 10011 RESERVATIONS: (212) 691-2274 Admtsston $5 OJ,TOF Voucher plu\> $2 00 Mitch's.Maze

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, May 1, 1980 Sharlet Works Published Robert Sharlet, professor of political science, is co-editor with University of Connecticut sociologist Piers Beirne of Pasbukanis: Selected Writings on Marxism andLaw. The book, which includes a critical in- troduction written by the editors, was recently published by Academic Press, a sub-- sidiary of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Publishers. Sharlet's and Beirne's work, translated-by Peter B. Maggs of the University of IHinois' College of Law, provides the first comprehensive selection in English translation from the writings ·of prominent Seviet legal philosopher Evgeny Bronislavovich Pashukanis 11891-1937). Eleven of Pashukanis' major theoretical writings, including the original Russian edition of \The General Theory of Law and Marxism\ r 1924), have been translated into English for the first time and incorporated into this volume. Governance Continued from page 1 decision-making process is established for the whole campus and that com- munication within the system is facilitated. Nichols evaluated the change in the relative positions of the three campus. constituencies: students, faculty, and ad- ministration. Students have given up \any fundamental decision-making authority as far as curriculum is concerned\ because policies originating in the Academic Affairs Council can be vetoed by the general faculty, but they have gained . influence in purely student affairs through the Student Affairs Council, Nichols believed. \For the first time there can be a coherent, unified student voice,\ he said. Nichols found that in theory faculty influence has risen in the sphere of academic policy and • decreased in ad- ministrative matters, but he said, \in pr-actice, I don't think anything is going to change.\ In the field of administration, Nichols felt the responsibility for coherent decision-making and policy fell to the president. Prof. Warde hesitated to say unequivocally that students had· lost power. ''As far as the power of votes goes, they have lost, but I maintain that in effect they haven't lost because thepower of votes has never really been brought to bear,\ he said, reiterating that governance is a matter of persuasion. \Faculty has certainly gained a control over the curricular and academic life of the institution which it has not had for a long time,\ Warde said. In regard to the administr:ative role, he stated, \theoretically now the administrator who wishes to lead should feel freer to do so,\ but, in reality, they are no more free because \they are still accountable to the community of students and faculty.\ In discussing the activities for the rest of the year of those committees which will no longer exist under the new Governance system, both Warde and Nichols reported that, with the exception of the Educational Policy Committee, little activity · had been oc- curring throughout the year in most committees. Warde, who is also E.P.C. · chairman, reported that his committee was already at work to lay the foundations. for the important statement of mission of the College which win be required from the Academic Affairs Council, the new structure which is analogous to the E.P.C. .. Pashukanis was the author of some 200 pieces on questions of legal theory' legal history' and public administration. The book· by Sharlet, Beirne, and 1 Maggs traces Pashukanis' em.ergence as a Marxist theorist of law,. his paramount role in the development of Soviet Marxist jurisprudence as a critique of bourgeois legal philosophy,. his \self criticism\ under the impact of ascendent Stalinism, and finally, his theoretical and political demise in the great purges of the late 1930s,. Washington, D.C., conference on ''East Europe in the 1980s.\ His topic was \Human Rights in East Europe.\ A graduate of Brandeis University with a B.A. in American civilization, Sharlet received his M.A. and Ph.D. in political science from Indiana University. He also attended Moscow University Law School in the 1960s, and received a certificate in foreign and comparative law from Columbia Law School in 1975. A native of Boston, Mass., Sharlet resides in Schenectady. Roth: Prof. P a s h u k a n i s : Se 1 e c t e d Writings on Marxism and Law provides the primary materials necessary for critical analyses of the formative years in Soviet legal and political theory, as well as for the elaboration of Marxist analyses of con- temporary legal institutions. Li~eral learning Sharlet, who joined the Union College faculty in 1967, is a specialist in Soviet and East European politics, law, and political justice. In addition to his recent work, he is the co- . author of The Soviet Legal System and Arms Inspection r1972) and author of The New Soviet Constitution of 1977 11978). Continued from page 5 number of Union students with whom I chat casually who in fact wish they commanded the language better than they do. They feel rather cheated, by not having it. But in general, an example of something; that irks me is the enormous number of students that I check with every Credit Vetoed The controversy over whether or not Union would offer credit to students for ROTC courses, was settled at the Educational Policy Committee's meeting of April 14, 1980. The committee, voted the following resolution at this meeting: \although it recognizes the other values of student participation in the AFROTC program, EPC cannot recommend the granting of academic credit for courses in that program as submitted and discussed earlier.\ This issue received attention last term when students, Randy Petyak and Tim Cool'ey ap- proached the EPC with their request for the accreditation of ROTC courses which they had taken earlier at RPL The principle question which_ had yet to be resolved was whether or not the committee should accept in principle, the idea of giving ROTC course credit, or consider each course in- dividually. By the end of last term there remained the possibility of extending partial credit towards ROTC courses, but the issue had yet to be formally voted on by the committee. The April 14th meeting wit- nessed a change of sentiment as members decided that ROTC training, though a valuable extra-curricular activity, should not be perceived as an eq1.1ivalent substitute for the \kind and quality\ of courses offered at Union. DG Olympics It's time once again for the Second Annual Delta Garruna Olympics to benefit Sight Conservation and Aid to the Blind. This Saturday, May 3rd at 3:00 on Library Field you will be able to see extraordinary performances of agility and stamina of many co-ed teams on campus as they compete against each other in scheduled events. The participating teams each consist of eight men and seven women and they must have a team name,. team banner, and team song. They will compete in some events / similar to last year along wjth many new interesting ones. The first place prize consists of a party at Pizza Hut for the team members and there will also be a second and third place prize for those members. Spectators are enj:!ouraged to participate as anyone who places a bet on the overall winning team will also win a prize. So come on out and join us for a day of fun! The Sisters of Delta Gamma Part-time Research Assistant We need a campus representallve to assls1us in d\evelopingmailing lists ofselecled senior and graduate sludents. Ingenuity, perseverance and .reliability required. Would prefer someone who can work lor II$ in this capacity for several.years to come. No \rags to riches\ income, but certainly allractive if you need additional money to he'p meet rising expenses. If you are Interested in learning more a~out this opporttmity, fill out the coupon.below and mall it today. ' -------------·-·-----------·---------------· I - I 1 am interested In learning more about being your NMI Associates campus representlltlve. Please flimish.me with Attn: Nevil Johnson pertinent details. P.O. Box 19722• Dept. CDLADS Dallas, Texas 75219 ~me ____________________________________ ___ ~r8U------------~----------~------------ t I Clly Stale . Zip I I Phone Humber ' College or Unlv; Dept. 01' Class I --------------·M-·--~-------------~---------J yepr who tell me that they would Uke to be more involved in intellectual discussions. They would like tQ spend more time, just as we are, with stud~nts and fac11lty talking together but sadly \ they believe they are practically the only students here who feel that way. And I have dozens upon dozens of different students who tell me that each year. In other words, we may !).ave an organizational problem. We may have a little hesitancy to come tight out in the open to say, \I arn in- terested in intellectual matters, and I would like to have more communication with faculty.\ The desire is there, and the quality of mind is there and the intensity of student, in my opinion,. is there. Editor's Note: This article, the second in our series of in- terviews with Union faculty, will be continued in next week's issue of Concordi~nsis. 6 Rms Riv ,Vu ••• Continued from page 7 productions. Stephan's energy, experience, and talents should make \6 RMS RIV VU\ a must for anyone who enjoys fine theatre. The play boasts a diverse and talented cast. Senior Verna Lowe has also appeared in \Three Sisters,\ \Robber Bridegroom,\ . \The Tryout,\ \Death of a Salesman,\ \Tom Paine,\ and \One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.\ Bambi Schlauch, a freshman, is a veteran of \Six Characters,\ and \Three Sisters,\ and Alan Binkow debuted in \Six: Characters.\ Appearing in their first Union productions will be Kate Mosher, Marisa Palasits, Chris Gaynor, and Eric W. Ruben. Tickets will be on sale soon in Nott Memorial. Second Annual DELTA GAMMA OlYMPICS On Saturday May 3 3 p.m. ·library Field Events, Music, Prizes. Food, Drink ... e,tc. Come & Join Usl Enjoy a Relaxing Dinner at the Pub this Friday night, 5 - 7:30 The Dutch Hollow Pu-b will be offering the following special dinner: / A variety of entrees including- steaks, seafood, burgers & hot sandwiches plus a pitcher -of beer or soda or a carafe of wine per person. Also, the fabul~us salad & bread bar - all included in the price of the e!ltree. The Pub will open this Sat. May 3 at 5:00 for Bar only. So come and enioy the fine seiVice! Blal byPA Approx ·o months a~ McCord colleagq.es concept of on a topic the arUst idea has : months a: lOth, lt v fruition. Fires: Wi Prin.tmakc exhibition sponsored Skidmore The sy tieularly .; appeal to J Union co corporate discipline drama, pl Many colorprin engraving well as lj Blake T: Blake's (l:Jooks th, accompar Many of exhibited collection Hans Roz The sy1 speakers backgrorn history a Te Please places av: Union TE terms wil Greece, I IsraeL .1 accepted For th1 prerequi~ be taken program towards 1 unique to requires course. r Israel pr1 take Het given in In ea The Suppe you w orWa many peopl1 unabl pay f;

e OONOORDIENSIS, May 1, 1980 Page 9 Blake Symposium At Union by PAUL GROSSMAN Approximately fou,rteen works i~ particular. Talks and lectures wilHnclude such topics as Blake's printing methods, Blake's ,contribution to the concept of song, Blake's visual art, and, of course, Blake's 'poetry. William Blake is best known for his poetry, particularly the often a~tbologized poem \Tyger Tyger\. Among his other works are the poem ''Jerusalem\ the illuminated book by the same name,. and his engravings to The Book of Job. · presentation including lecture, panel discussion, open discuSflion, slide shows, a printmaking workshop, and a music and dance performance. ' . Fliers containing the schedule of events is available in the Schaffer Library. Any questions concerning the symposium and exhibition can be directed to Jean Pelletiere in the Library or Professor McCord in the 'English-· Department. Prof. James McCord, organizer of the Blake Exhibition. .. months ago, English Professor McCord and some of his colleagues gave birth to the concept of having a symposiwn ·on a topic of common interest: the artist William Blake. This idea has grown over the past months and on May 9th and lOth, . it will finally come to fruition. \With Corroding Fires: William Blake as Poet, Prin,tmaker and ;painter\ is an exhibition and symposium co- sponsored by Union College and Skidmore College. The symposium and . par- ticularly the ~x:hibition should· appeal to many members of the Union community as it in- corporates many different disciplines including art, drama, philosophy and history. WiUiam Blake was a man of ideas who used his many talents to present often powerful social statements. l:le was a man that was vehemently against . the imposition of a mechanized, corporate .society on the rights of the individual. Blake's · un- derstanding of how society's attempts to control individuals is a major source of his appeal to social historians concerned with the past. His appeal also reaches the social analySt$ concerned with the rights of the individual i9: todaY's society. ---Area Caleridar------ Many original prints, colorprints, watercolors and engravings will be on d~play as well as ytpion' s complete set of Blake Trust facsimilies of Blake's illuminated books (books that contain artwork to accompany the· literary work). Many of the items to be exhibited are from the private collection of local resident Dr. Hans Rozendaal. . The symposium will include speakers wit})· extensive backgrounds in art artd literary history and William Blake's It should 5e emphasized that the exhibition and .symposium are by no.. means directed toward English majors alone. The presentations are diverse and are designeQ. to be of interest . to students, teachers, scholars and the • general public. 'Fhere will be many different methods of Terms Abroad Please note: There are still places m?:ailable for winter 1981 Union Terms Abroad. Winter terms will take place in Athensr Greece, Bogota, Colombia, and Israel. Applications will be accepted until May 1, 1980. For the Athens program, a prerequisite, Classics 21 must be taken fall term. The Bogota program which will be geared towards the study of problems unique to developing-eountries, requires a prerequisite Spanish course. To participate in the Israel .program, a student must take Hebrew 10 which will be given in the fall term. In each program three courses are offered, equivalent to the course load taken on campus. The cost is similar to the cost of a term spent .on campus. For any further in- formation and applications, please come to the Terms Abroad Office, Humanities 211. There are still a few places open in the Union T~rm Abroad in England, fall term, 1980. There are no prerequisites for this term abroad. Anyone in- terested in participating should come to the Terms Aborad office for information and applications:- The German Club is sponsoring a German\Pot Luck\ Supper on May 16 from 6:30 to 11 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. If you would like to attend, p.lease contact Professors Kellenter or Warde, or John Buzanoski by May 13. Please indicate how many will be attending and what you will bring {enough for 4 people). Bring your own drinks- wine, beer, etc. If you are unable to bring anything, we would welcome a donation to pay for items people are not bringing. ART May 4-0n Sunday, May 4, from 6:30-9:30 p.m., there will be an opening of an art exhibit at the RP~ Chapel and Cultpral Center on Burdett Avenue in Troy. The show, entitled \Fiberworks\, will consist of the weaving of Roberta Wallack and Susan Wood. This exhibit extends through June 6th. EXHIBIT May 3-25-MASTERS THESIS EXHIBITIONS: candidates for their M.A. degree in Studio Art will exhibit their works in sculpture, painting, prints and drawing. The exhibit will take place at SUNY' Albany's Art Gallert from 9 am-5 pm Tuesday through Friday, from 9 am-8 .pm Thursday and from 1 pm-4 pm Saturday and Sunday. FAIR May 4--Fifty-two Capital District arts organizations will combine their talents for an afternoon of live entertainment, demonstrations, and displays at the Albany League of Arts 1980 Arts Sampler Fair. From noon to 5 pm; the Fair will fill the Empire State Plaze ConventioQ · and Arts Center 'Yith representative selections of work by atea theaters, dance groups musicians, craftsman, chol'al societies, museums, and other artists. Fo:r further in- formation, call 449-5380. FILM May 2-At 3:10 pm, BLACK SOLDIER and GHOSTS ON THE ·LOOSE will be shown at the John A. Howe Branch Library on Schuyler and Broad The Student En- - vironmental Alliance will be recycling Friday, at 1: 00. Meet at the Maintenance Building. ~----~'------------------------------------~------------------------~ S-UNY·BINGHAMTON &zmmer Session 1980 • Term I June 2~June 27 • Term II July 7-August 15 Arts & Sciences Computer Sciences Management Technology . · Education Nursing Graduate and Undergraduate Courses · Special Workshops in Studio Art, Music, Computers, Uterature, )au, Manageme~t. LOW STATE TUITION WR1TE Oil CALL FOR CATALOG: Summer Session, SUNY-Binghamton Binght,imton, NY 13901 (607) 798-2161 .- ' \ Streets. For further in- formation, contact Fran Lewis at 449-3380 (mornings) or- 869- 9317 {home). May 6--COVER GIRL, starring Rita Hayworth and Gene Kelly, will be shown at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. at the Albany Public Library, 161 Washington Avenue. For further in- formation, contact Fran Lewis at 449-3380 {mornings) or 869- 9317 (home). May 6-THE PAPER CHASE will be shown at the Schacht Fine Arts Center at 7:30 p.m. For further information, call 270-2344 or 270-2246. May .7 and 14-GONE WITH THE WIND will be shown with both captioned and spoken dialogue at the Albany Public Library. Because of its length, the popular movie will be presented in 2 parts: at 2 p.m. For further information, con- tact Fran Lewis at 449-3380 (mornings) or 869-9317 (home). LECTURE May and 12-James Brooks, internationally known artist whose painting Chaco hangs in the concourse, will discuss his life and work in the Recital Hall of the Performing Arts Center (Egg). The lecture will be held at 8 p.m. both nights. For further information, call 473-7521.' MUSIC May 2-0N THE TOWN WITH LEONARD BERNSTEIN, an Opera Workshop Performance, will be held at 7 p.m. at the Performing Arts Center Recital Hall, The University of Albany. For further information, call 457-4901. May 6--Tlie University · Community Orchestra, con- ducted by Nathan Gottochalk, will perform at the Performing · Aits Center ~ain Theater, The University at Albany. This Annual Student Concerto will be· held at 8:30 p.m. For more information, call 457-4901. May 8-\Israel in Egypt\ the oratio by . George Frederick Handel, will be presented by the Capitoll::lill Choral Society at 8 p.m. in Phillip Schuyler Concert Hall, N. Lak~ Ave., Albany. For more information, call 457-55l9 or 489-0212. May 9-The University Choral with soprano Lecia Albanese of ~he Metropolitan Opera will perform at _8:30 p.m. at the Performing Arts Center Main Theater, The University at Albany. For more information, call 457-3606. THEATER May 7-\Killing Time\ a new Black American History play by Leslie Lee will be presented at 8 p.m. in the Arena Theater of The Performing Arts Center at SUNY A, For further in- formation, call 473-3122. · May 9-The YWCA Services to \\ Families in Violence presents Mini Musical's Production of Broadway's Greatest Musical's at 8 p.m. at the YWCA in Schenectady at 8 p.m. WORKSHOP May 8-June 15-The Albany Public Library Job Information Center is sponsoring a series of Small Business workshops at 2 p.m. Thursdays from May 8 - June 15 in the Main Library, Washington Ave. For further information call 449-3380. Gr:eenberg Speaks Noted author and lecturer Blu Greenberg will discuss \A Look at Intermarriage - Jewish- Christian Relations\ at 4 p.m. Thursday, May 8, at Union College. Greenberg's talk will be held in conference room A, on the second .floor of Carnegie Hall, and the public is welcome to attend. Greenberg, author of the forthcoming book The Jewish · Woman: Traditi(ln and the Contemporary Experience, has published such articles as \Abortion and Helacha,\ \Jewish Divorce Law,\ and \Renaissance of Jewish Culture in the Soviet Union.\ She is currently completing J::Ier Ph. D. in the Department ofReligion at Columbia University. Gr~enberg's talk at Union is sponsored by the College Women's Commission, the Sociology Department, and Hillel. Yes folks, tickets are finally on sale for Sepior Fling '80. Stop by Mr.s. Marra's office in Student Activities to pick them up. Tickets are $20 each and wiU provide you with food and en- tertainment througnout the eveflinq of. June 12 (Thurs. before graduation). There are only 300, and they are sure to go fast, so rush to _get yours. Beginning at five o'clock on June 12, cocktails will be served (cash bar) at the Queensbury Hotel in Glens Falls. This cocktail hour will be f.ollqwed by dinner, beginning with a fresh fruit appetizer le~ding into salad, with the main entree being Cornish Game Hen on a bed of rice . After dinner, the parfy will move to the 32-mile lake better known as Lake George, where from 8 to 8:30 p.m. we shall board the 'ticonderoga for a 3 hour cruise. Puring the cruise, a cash bar will be available and munchies will be served. While on board, you can eithet dance or· listen to the sounds of the band we have planned. This is a great opportunity to get together for one last time as a class before graduc:~tion. So keep that date open. Remember, Thursday, June 12 beginning at 5. · Activities for Friday June 13 are presently under con- sidera~ion. Any t~eas? If so, present them to the Senior Fling Comm1ttee Meetmg today at 4: 30; Mrs. Marra in Student Activities or Lorraine Bohanske, Box 924. ' .

Pll,ge 10, BULLETIN BOARD Attemtion: All Seniors Wishing to deliver the commencement speech please submit a 1,500 word draft to Mike Andolina by May 1st. Important: Speeches with student name will not be accepted, include . only JD No. and Box No. Thank you-- Commencement Conunittee. Female Roommate wanted in suburban Albany apt. 20 minutes from downtown. $100- mo. + utilities. Call Ellen- work, 445-3358; home, 482-3401. Leave message. Two rooms available in apartment for Fall 1980. 377- 922~. Ride needed to Northwestern U.S. (Idaho or thereabo:!lts) around June 23. Tamson Scott, 377-9229. An those interested in forming an Acrobatic Dance Class, fall term of next year, come to organizational meeting in Fox: Lounge on Tuesday, May 13 at 3:30 p.m. No experience necessary. Call Alan at ext. 6479 if you can't make it. 3 Bedroom Apt. available for summer subletting. Close · to campus. Reasonable rent. (1046 University Pl.) Call 393-5105 . .. ·' On May 5 the Chemistry Coub will sponsor a lectUre and slid show entitled: \Art Restoration e and Preservation.\ r k Patty Dacus Hanun, Pape Conservator for the New Yor State Department of Parks an Recreation Will deliver the tal wl1ich will take place in HU 11 at 4:30p.m. Refreshments at d k 5 4 ' p.m. Applications for the 198o-8 Program in Washington. ar now being accepted. Forms ar available in Social Science Building, Room216. See Page 96 of the current catalogue for description of the program also questions may be a diessed to Professors: Daniel Tidmarch, and Underwood. 1 - e e s a ' d- s, s: ·Titird Year Evaluation Dennis Bingham and Dav Ullman. The Department Mechanical Engineering conducting third-yea evaluations. If ·you would like submit any informati relevant to these evaluation you may do so by contactin W.C. Aubrey, Chairma Mechanical Engineerin id of is r to on s, g n, g, Steinmetz Hall. .E. Umpires wanted for G Men •s Summer Softball Leag No experience required. easy $10-game. Call Andy Zarchy, · 385-8827 for ue. An- in- formation. PLACEMENT RA- cts ani a ities .. fJQNOORDllfJNBlBs 1tfoy1:, .19.80 classifieos Ra dnor, Burroughs Cor• ration, 240 Radnor-Chester ' . ., Radnor, Pennsylvani:a: 087. Job description is · ailable in Placement. po Rd. 19 av NEW YORK STATE · D EPARTMENT' OF TA XATION AND FlNANCE-, e Tax Department is seeking · alified individuals to fill the sition of Tax Auditor I. formation and applications e available in Placement. Th qu po In ar (D inf stu ROTC ·sCHOLARSHIPS·- ept. of the Army)-We have ormation available for dents in the placement office wh o are interested in ROTC holarships. ROTC scholar- ps pay for tuition, oooks, fees Sc shi an d provide $100 per month for bsistence at any o,ne of the 280 leges nationally that host su col R OTC on theb: campuses. p ERSONALS M: Are four weeks a month? Ly--Remember not until fi nals! ! ! and make sure N behaves ... K- b J-I.O.U. more tban you can elieve!! !E y Cohen-Did anybody ever tell ou that you're naiive??-A iend fr .. Lynn-Happy Anniversary, 18 months!!! M s Sue--If walls could talk, omebody m!ght be very ner- ous. P.M .. v p Dare-Congratulations. The lay was superb. Martha & George Daro--\My .m()ther thanks ou, my father thanks you, my ister thanks you., and as for y s me, well that goes without aying.\ George s Emily- Love ya! Alan Mike Fisher-\Chest\ what are you looking for, eh? -- Disgusted, disgruntled and nauseous To Aimee and Cathy, I bad the unique opportunity to write a personal to you, but couldn't hink of what to say. Signed your antisocial socialite t Marla, \A w l31W1IDer! \ Phyl ,Geoff--Matzel Tov! Happy 19th-Mitch Pete: Happy Birthday! We'll celebrate at Wheaton--Your Monster . ~-~--'----'=---~--. I shall Return! Fitz Hugh,. Ludlow Me too Sqllire Whipple \Uncle Bill Beware of Flying · Pies Haddock Sleep now. . And pray for ,Sun FHL Ha ddock--Whe,re's my · Apache Relay-Fhl 9 sw Amy: Happy 2oth birthday. Marla. ···Theta DehaChi~s 3rd Ann!Jal Sovthern Rock ParfJ. Featuring '~S;feering Clear'_' 10- Beer Pbyl: What's wrong with this? Marla . Sat. Nite Behind Pbyl: I can't do this! It's not up to me tc make these kinds of decisions! ... So don't do it! What are you anyway, his schlep? Yes, ok, you win. You put you-r foot down somewhere~ A little late, but nevertheless, .I won't consider it ex post facto. · · Marla Phyl: Peel .a grape. §lowly. .. Marla Pete: Happy 19tii1 Thanks fc;>r everything. Love ya, Marla Kevin-call me for a meal. Would everybody please get into Spring ter:in. This place is ' boring. · - Marie, Sharon, Cyn, Deb, and Second floor--thanks.for the best birthday. Love y~. Aud. KTD-Here's to crudeness and our 4:30 a.m. encounter! May there be many:- more! pm Congratulations new PSK Little Sisters and PSK Brothers! Sara-- What prestigous position was that you held? Special K. -every morning to be sure-Clover May 3 the F~eldhouse · - Chi Psi presents its Bth Annual CHARITY PARTY Saturday M,oy 10 9 p.m; ~· Costum~ t!}eme; ''The Roaring 20's and Big Band E.ra'' .. Come rel'ive one of America's wTidest moments! See any lodger for tickets. -. Cornell Law SChool Undergra4uate Prelaw Program June 9 to July ?2, 1980 A·demanding six-week program -for college~tudenfs who want to learnwhat law school is like. For further information write to Prof. E. F. Roberts, Cornell Law School . 3148 Myron Taylor Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853 6 RMS RIV VU BY Bob Randall May 6,7,8,9,10 BURROUGHS - CORPO TION. Program Produ Division, Radnor, Pennsylv have employment opportl;ID for entry level and expenen st11dents in Applicat Systems Analysts. Forw ce d- in the Nott ions ard sler ' .Resumes to: William Nes 1II, Personnel Manager, P p D- 464 State St. we deliver ' 136 Jay 346·2719 Downtown Schenectady Schenectady ' 374-1888 - Bo~ Office Open Mon - : . by :oouc Although season is rj excite:ntent few teams thi$year w1 aO<lUt next y these plans draft near rests as the the.teamstl the lowerra newconcep· into the dr that has Sl .during the 1 of hardship. uafamiliar sirnplymea be drafted ranks befo completed e();uivalent c .for this, sp• approved b mittee. So famous casj Johnson, W.illiams, C Olberding, and numer eluded in tl to the idea Darry·l D Willoughb: j11mped fro: pro ranks. The rna jll!Dping fr• OT: byD For the years ther genuine int playoffs. l being scoff making ver players are from coast Perhaps f()r the ren balance of I basketball. Onekey1 couple of tradeswhi< so teams i of these t were the IV the Phil~ Sixers. Th• great deal few years,· man in thE thus acquil was wastil Lanier in: Suck attac Marques Seattle to : In Philly waiting for to their po1 'rhe Sixers but lacked in the hac this probl4 Lionel Hol Hollins stt along witt parryl Da tnto the Cl a good Bos L.A. and powerful chose. to together Lakers 1 (Kareem needed a this reasm Johnsontl choice, ~ Spencer Chones.A:.

• 'OONCJORDIENSIS, May :1., 1980 Page 11 ' . tlporte. A VieW From QThe Stands by DOUGSILVERSTEIN Although the basketball season i~ reaching its peak in excitement at this time, only a few teams still have .hopes for thiS year while the others think aovut next year .. A major part of these plans. include the college ·draft near swnmertime. This rests as the ray of Slilllight for the teams that sat destituted in the lower ranks of basketball. A .new concept has been inducted into the draft since .1971, one that has seen increasing use .d!lring the past few years, that of bardship:For those who are u11familiar With this term, it simply means that :a player can be drafted from the college ranks before the player has completed four years or the eC(uivalent.of college. Eligibility for this, special case must be approved by a selection com- mittee. Some of the more· famous cases have been -Erving Johnson, Skip Wise, Sly Williams, Cliff Robinson, Mark Olberding, Johnny Neumann, and numerous others. Not in- cluded in the group but related to the idea are Moses Malone, Darry·l Dawkins and Bill Willoughby, piayers who j11mped from high school to the pr-oranks. ../ The main advantage. of j11111ping from the school ranks to the pros is money. To pass yourself\as worthy of hardship, one must prove to a stringent · committee that he is de~perate for . immedil;tt~ financial assistance. High school players do not face tbis qualification. Therefore, the players that apply for hardship and pass the test are usually in a situation that demands immediate remedies. Some players have been rejected to ensure the morality of the college system. The second advantage is that in leaving college eal'ly, the player avoids injury. Instead of playing out a junior or seniar year of college one immediately jumps to the pros and avoids a fluke injury. Rationalizing this, one can· assume that a player who will be drafted early will be one who wHl log more playing _!ime than the. average player. This-4s because most hardship cases ten!J to be players who are superior. Therefore, the probability of injury will be augmented tremendously. Related to this concept, a player will not risk a poor or sub par senior year that will decrease his value. The risk is therefore at times great for the pro team, but the benefits. can be enor- mous for both sides. Finally, one who seeks hard- ship need not waste a year or two dominating college ball and can gain valuable e~q)erience in . the pros competing with other players who are experienced and can pass on a few tricks, literally. In other words, one can in a way get ahead of the class. The findividual receives on the job training, as did Darryl Dawkins and Mark Olberding, two players who wai,ted long for success. . 'l'he disadvantages are also quite numerous. Fh'st, these . players often encounter, emotional problems. Obviously some players who do not take the hardship route also ex- perience ~motional problems, but many believe that being younger . makes the transition more difficult. Players such as Moses Malone and Skip Wise were two who suffered many emotional problems, Wise now being in prison, The argument of was~ing years in college can be looked at . in a different light. Often these players spend more than one year watching the games from the bench, and although they gain experience in practices, they receive little real game experience. Also, their lack of experience often 1 exposes them when they do play, which causes the team to reflect on their erratic · play by trading them. For example, Moses Malone, possibly the best center OT: Back In The Limelight by DAVE RUDEN For the first time in many years there seems to be -a genuine interest in the N.B.A. playoffs. After a decade. of being scoffed at as a money making venture, the teams and players are stirring excitement from coast :to coast. Perhaps the greatest reason br the renewed interest is the balance of power in professional baslcetball. One key to this balance was a couple of end of the season tr-ades which bolstered a few so- so teams into contenders. Two of these teams in particular were the Milwaukee Bucks Q.nd the Philadelphia Seventy· Sixers. The Bucks bave had a great deal of promise the past few years, but have lacked a big man in the middle. The Bucks thus acqllired Bob Lanier; who was wasting away in Detroit. Lanier instantly ignited the Ruck attack, and together with Marques Johnson, extended Seattle to seven games. In Philly, the fans have been waiting for the Sixers to play up to their potential for five years. T'he Si·xers were a strong team, ~ut lacked leadership and depth In the backcourt. To alleviate t~is problem, Pbilly acquired Lionel Hollins from Portland. Hollins stepped .right .in, and along with Julius Erving and parryl Dawkins, led the team 1nto the Championsbip, leaving a good Boston team in the dust. L.A. andSeattle, the two most Powerful teams in the West, chose. to piece their teams together like a puzzle. The Lakers had the big man (Kareem Abdul•Jabbar), but needed a supporting cast. For this reason the¥ made \Magic\· Johnson their number one draft choice, and added .castoffs Spencer Haywood and Jim Chones. Along with Norm Nixon I and J amaal Wilkes, the takers have a potent starting five, and compotent sixth man. The Sonics traded for Gus Williams and John Johnson, drafted Jack Sikma and Dennis Johnson, and were awarded Lonnie Shelton in compensation for the. Knieks signing of Marvin Webster. Seattle is the defending world champion, but they will be hard- pressed to be the first team to win back to back titles since the Celtics did it over a decade ago. Following many years of declining interest, it is refreshing to see the renewed interest in the N.B.A. playoffs. Thanks to carefJl]. planning by the league's general managers, teams are now looking for players who fit into the team mold, rather than buying high- priced superstars who care more about the bucks than the victories. This trend will have to expand. to other vital cities (New York and Chicago) if the league is to get back to the level it once stood at. ~Softball At 3-4 by CHRIS PHELAN Last Tuesday, the Dutch- women met the Ulster team for what turned out to be a protested game on the part of Union, due to misinterpretation of the rules by the Umpire. The · team is currently waiting for. the outcome of the decision. Going into the sixth inning, the score was 13-4, in favor of Ulster., The Union sluggers scored seven runs, but to no avail. Ulster brought in the final rllll, making it a disappointing 14-llloss. The big hitters Were Carol Wrenn, (3 for 3), Dot Scarpihato ( 4 for 4), and Kirsten Peterson (3 for 5) . On April 24, Union beat RPI, ,8-7. Leading 7-5 going into the 7th inning, RPI scored 2 runs, tying the score. The winning run was driven in by Kelly Liese at the bottom of the 7th innjng. Coach Jane Hopkins said that the team iS really turning around and playing more ljke a softball team. The Dutchwomen met Siena the next day losing 8-7. Union was 'leading 7-4 going into the 7th inning, but Siena quickly scored 4 runs. Big hitters were D~t Scarpinato (2 for 4). and Kirsten Peterson (2 for 3). \The game was exciting, well pbtyed, people hit well, but we. just weren't -lucky enough\ said Coach Hopkins. Over Parents' Weekend, the Dutchwomen beat Saint Rose 10-4. During an exciting 2nd inning, 8 nms were scored, with 2 more coming in during the third; one on a squeeze play. Outstanding hitters Were Kirsten Peterson (2 fot 3) and Brenda Hugich (2 for 2). Dina Pliotis · pitched an extremely strong game, overpowering the St. Rose batters. On April 29, the Dutchwomen beat Oneonta with four runs scored dlll'ing the first inning and 2 in the fifth. Dot Scarpinato went 2 for 3, with Sheila O'Donnell, Debbie Downey, and Kelly Liese all 2 for 4. Again Dina Pliotis overpowered the opposing batters, forcing most to pop-up. The defense pulled through with a double play, and Dot Scarpinato in center field threw out a runner headed for home. The Dutchwomen's record is 3-4. They play Colgate on Thursday, and Russell Sage on Friqay. in basketball, has played ·for St.. Louis of the ABA, and Portland, Buffalo, and Houston of the NBA. This all in five years. Success does arrive, but years, cities, and heartaches later. Finally, the great moralist may argue that the players do not receive -the advantage of a full . college education, and .realistically most will not go back to get it. If one does not succeed, he is left without a college degree; a great disadvantage for someone who has ·Counted on his basketball skills for a living. If money is a problem, colleges can com- pensate, a loan for temporary assistance. This is not to en- courage illegal practices on the amateur level, but . legal arrangements could be worked out. The actual degree is probably less important than the out-of-school education which often becomes the best professor for a student. Obviously, the advantages and disadvantages must be solely a personal decision. The individual must decide on the urgency of the situation, the importance of an education, and the probability of success of the route taken. Whatever one's opinion, all I will say is that the committees that review the eligibility of hardship ap- plicllnts must be strict enough to justify the practice of hard· ship. Laxwom-en At .500 by NANCY COLT Busy with four games this past week, Union's much im- proved Women's Lacro~se team has upped their record to 4-4. Travelling first to a sunny Oneonta last Thursday, the Dutchwomen played a notoriously rough and tough l:!QUad. Oneonta scored quickly and moved ahead early in the game, but Union hustled back tallying five goals to Oneonta's six at the half. Shortly into the second half, Union found themselves down by two as Oneonta scored another fast goal. Pulling themselves together, the Dutchies started playing picture-perfect lacrosse. With quick cuts, precise passes an$! gorgeous give-and-goes, Union moved the ball downfield and into the cage. Finally tieing the score, Union ~was ready to go ahead when leading scorer, Holly Howard, fouled out of the game. Even more determined, ·union took over and dominated play, although Oneonta's dubious \zone\ defense made scoring difficult. Scoring alternated between Union and Oneonta, but with twenty seconds left in the game, co-captain Sheryl Katz scored the deciding goal. Each attack player scored at least one goal, proving that the women played as a cohesive unit. Liz Garcia and Debbie Goldberg each had one goal, Emily Monnosson and Holly Howard had 2 and Sheryl Katz had 5 goals. A game to be proud of, the Varsity's 11-10 victory was welf deserved. Coming off this super win, the Dutchies faced Middlebury's excellent, experienced varisty · team on Friday. In front of a sizeable crowd, Union con- tinued theil; previous day's play and matched Middlebury's superior skill by moving ahead two minutes into the game on a goal by Liz Garcia. Middlebury tied the score · and within a minute added two more to go ahead 3-1. Union continued their passing game and scored a goal by Holly and Debbie. Goldberg's first of the day. Middlebury was still within reach leading 6-4 at the half. However, the ex- ' perience, strength. and skill of Middlebury's squad lead to seven unanswered goals in the second half of the game for a· final score of 13-4. Although somewhat tired, Union never gave up and our defense deserves hearty recognition, especially goalie Johanna Gr-iggs Who had 32 shots and 19 saves. The loss to Middlebury and Monday's rainy weather didn't stop the Dutchwomen from defeating Hamilton (now 5-2-1). Union, playiD:g away on a muddy, wet field in cold, rainy weather were safe and con- servative in the first half, fin- ding themselves behind 3-5. Despite difficulty in controlling the ball and their sticks, Union's women came out psyched to score and plowed through Hamilton's defense. With confidence on attack and superb defense, Union racked up seven more goals in the second half to finalize the victory of 10-6. Holly Ied the day with four goals, Carol and Sheryl had two and Debbie and Emily each scored a goal. Tuesday, with three starters out due to injury and classes, Coach Morrison was able to test the versatility of her team. In spite of lineup changes, Union faced Castleton's team with their customary aggressive team style. With two goals apiece from Carol and Holly, and a fifth added by co-captain Buthaina Shukri, Union slll'ged ahead 5-3. Castleton retlll'ned fired up in the second half and slowly managed to tie up the game 9-9 with just 50 seconds remaining. The game was decided in a sudden death overtime where Castleton won the draw and consequently scored the winning goal. The final score of 10.9 was tallied from Holly Howard ( 4 goals) Carol Ghingher's 3 and Uz Garcia and Buthaina's single goals apiece. The Dutchwomen play their final home game this Saturday-Come Watch!! Union's J .V. team had only one game this week. Playing at Oneonta, the Dutchies suffered a 3-0 defeat but are optimistic about their final contest this Saturday at home against Russell Sage. The Office of Place'ment and career Resources, in- conjunction with the Student Forum is pleased to present AN INFORMAL TALK BY PRESIDENT JOHN S. MORRIS on \What Can You 1?.9 With a Liberal A.rts Education?\ Wednesday, May 7, 3:30 p.m. at Strauss Lounge. All are invitecl to attend the presentation and the Informal discussion with refreshments

Page 12 OONOORDIEN81S~ May 1, 19_80 6porte Baseball Slumps To 5-8 by GLENN KINNS The Union College baseball team continued its roller coaster season this past week by dropping four straight decisions after winning five in a row the previous week. Siena College slid past .the Dutchnten 4-1, to break the win streak, a~ Siena ace Marvin LeRoy fanned 13 and allowed 'mly 3 hits. Garnet hurler Glenn Kinns is provinQ, that the sophomore jinx theory might well be a fact, as he pitched a strong game, allowing only 5 hits and 0 earned runs, while striking out six. Jun i.or Dan Thomson drove in tlle only Union run in the sixth inning with a single, and Sophomore AI DiLibero rapped a third inning double for the Dutchmen's only extra base hit. · Poor defense resulted in a discouraging loss to archrival RPI (9-4) last Wednesday, despite an excellent hitting day by Freshman Mike Saccocio and Senior Joe Lavery. Sac- cocio had two singles, scored three runs and reached first base each of his five times at bat; while Lavery was busy driving him in on three separate occasions. Lavery took the pitching loss by allowing three runs on only two hits in four innings, Senior reliever Mike Hogan took the mound aad was the victim of a total defensive collapse, which allowed six.runs and six errors. This past weekend, Union lost two dose games to St. Lawrence, 3-2 and 4-2. Again, Glenn Kinns twhose record has dipped to 1-4 l took a disap- pointing lass despite another strong performance. Kinns struck out six and allowed only five hits in the losing effort. Union was held to only one hit, a Sports Happenings May 1-- May 7 Baseball Varsity Lax JV Lax May 1 at Siena May 3 at Middlebury (2) May 6 at Albany May 3 at Hamilton May 7 at Williams May 3 at Hamilton. MayS vs. Hudson VaHey CC May 7 at Williams Track Tennis Softball Women's Lax Golf May 3 at Colgate May 2 at Colgate May 7 at Middlebury May 1 at Colgate May 2 vs. Russell Sage May 7 vs. Albany May 1 at Colgate May 3 vs. Russell Sage May 1 at AIC vs. AIC, Williams Track Bows The Hamilton College track team, winning all but one of the running events, coasted to a surprisingly easy 91f-63 win over hosts Union College last Tuesday. Although the Dutch- men outscored Hamilton in the field events, Union could manage only one first- by Gerry Wells in the hurdles, and four seconds in the ten running events. In addition to Wells, Union winners also included Dan Frantz in the javelin; Brad Kline in the hammer; Dave Cozzens in the high jump; and Jim Zalucki and Dave Wallace in the pole valult. Wallace and Zalucki con- tinued Union's dominance in the pole vault with a first place tie at 12 foot 6 inches. Roger Adler, one of the \invisible men\ on the track team completed the sweep with a jump of 11 feet 6 inches to finish third. Throughout the season, Adler has continued to contribute to the team by quietly and in- conspicuously picking up second and third place points receiving little credit in the process .. Wallace, in addition to his win in the pole vault, also placed in four other events, scoring almost one-quarter of Union's points singlehandedly. Wallace finished second in the 100 meter dash, the long jump, and the triple jump, and third in the high jump. Several other Union athletes also turned in strong per- formances. Jack Connor scored · a personal best of 16:01.7 in the 5,000 meter event to finish second, while freshman John Stimmel equaled his career best of 52.0 to finish third in the 400 meter dash. Dennis Contois and Dave Dellehunt finished third and fourth in the half mile with times of 2: oo and 2:01 respec- tively. Steve Lerner and Clyde Kelly turned in personal bests in the javelin throw to finish fol.lrth and fifth. On Saturday, several team members competed in the Hartwick Invitational on au individual basi.s. Jack Connor continued his strong running to finish sixth in the 5,000 meter race for the best individual performance of the day by a Union runner. This Saturday, Union par- ticipates in the Colgate Invitational TDurney.at Ct:dgate •. first inning single by Joe Lavery. Union tled the game 2-2 in the top half of the seventh inning as Freshman Walt Frederick knocked in Lavery with a sacrifice fly. George Oberstadt then scored on a wild pitch to force St. Lawrence to bat in the seventh. Apparently they do well under pressure as they wasted little time in scoring their only earnedrun off , Kinns to, finish the game. The Union bats barely stirred in the second game also, as the Dutchmen could only collect 3 singles and 2 runs. Lavery ripped out his second single of the afternoon and Freshinen Todd Fobare and Mike Saccocio each belted one. Junior Wayne Hiker, Union's most consistent pitcher so far this year, evened up his record at 2-2 with the frustrating loss. Riker allowed ju~t four hits and four walks while striking out one. Just_ one game into the second half of the season, :Mike Sac• cocio leads all regular hitters with a .295 batting average and a 51 percent on base per- centage. Dan Thomson heads the RBI department with nine and also leads -the club in doubles with two.-oave Chused leads the pitchers in. ERA with an impressive 2.16 mark, while Glenn Kinns and Wayne Riker Soph shortstop AI DiLibero leading th,e Union \9\ in fielding. have a 2.32 and 3.37 ERA respectively. Chused only walks an average of two and a half batters a game, and Kinns strikes out an average of seven and a half a game, Union fans have a lot .to look forward to t)lis week, because the team is due for about ten straight wins .. The Garnet face Siena tonight (Thursday) at Albany's Bleeker Stadium, and then. intend to sweep a twin bill at M;iddlebury on Saturday before avenging themselves at Albany St. on Tuesday. The Dutchmen play their home ga~es at Central Park. Stickmen Drop Two by TIM SULLIVAN The Union College Varsity Lacrosse squad fell prey to two local rivals this past week, as Albany St. and RPI defeated our Dutchmen by scores of 15-14 and 15-9, respectively. The two losses dropped the season- record to 5-6 and all but ex- tinguished Dutchmen hopes for a winning record this year. Nonetheless, there have been encouraging flashes of brilliance this season as exemplified by the play of veterans Jim Wright, Rich Romer, and Neil Konner, as well as rookies Sean Durham, Dave Schumann, and Larry Salberg. In this, his second year at the helm of Union,Lacrosse Coach Fran Meagher. has done an admirable job of building for the future while getting the most out of his veteran players. Last Tuesday Union traveled to Albany St. in questof the first victory for tri-city bragging rights. In a closely contested battle which was not decided until the final minutes of play, Albany squeezed out a win by a one goal margin. After one period of play the score was knotted at 3-3. Union goals being scored by Neil Kortner (two) and Rich Ronner. Second period tallies by Ronner and Jim Wright were offset by three Albany St. goals for a 6-5 halftime deficit. 1Jnion slipped a bit in thethird as Albany opened up a four goal lead and although Union scores split the irons seven times in the fourth period it just wasn't enough for the lead. Sean Durham scored three · goals and assisted on another in that fourth period and woUI1d up with four-four on the day. Neil Konner and Rich Bonner each collected three-three and Jim Wright had three .goals. Ted Kelley made fifteen saves in the nets for Union. The traditional RPI-Parents Weekend game w~s, 1 p~l~ last Saturday- and RPI used a balanced scoring attack to hold off the Dutchmen for a 15\9 victory. RPI jumped out to a 5-1 first period lead as Union ap- peared overly cautious con- cerning shot selection. The scoring over the last three periods was balanced but RPI scored the important ones whenever Union came within · striking distance. Jim· Wright and Neil Konner each scored three goals and an assist, while Sean Durha:g1 had four assists, and Larry Solberg, Dave Schismonn, and Rob Fisch- · mann all scored unassisted tallies for Union. This past Tuesday Union travelled to Syracuse to take on the third ranked team in Div. I. The level of play is great be- tween the two teams and. at press time there were no reports on the games outcome. Union visits Hamilton and Williams in the coming week as they close out the season. Soph trans.fer student Sean Durham checks RPI de.fender. Durham is a welcomed addition to the Dutchman attack. Important Four bag'S of softball equipment have been missing since Sunday, April 20. No playoff games will be played until the equipment is returned to the Intramural office. .... RO'] CJ It wa Cone or' gran tin diplom; been se the AJ Educat which i such ·cl course: as equi Tim G< thetw~ this pr~ withth appeal campu the All 22. Cool upptn· haveb credit~ requir· ' of the course Amer What to rec four : durin€ years. credit learni stand~ taking per Y' nine recei~ them. Pri< an A .camp given Howe shlPP' to Ail stopp· ROTC HOI 0 Be per< accc lotte rela· havE than cam hom muc Life furt divi ALI HAJ Sin~ Fox Dm Nor Ric tot: Dot Nm Ric tOE AL HA Sin Fo: Da We ~ tot:

ExTRA: FITZ HUGH -LUDLOW DAY T II E CONCOR.DIENSIS. Sc.nES.ElrTAJ>Y, N. Y .. NovEMBI<:R,- 1877· ·No. 1. Sq- ...•• -- .. _ ir· ·e··-- . - ll Squire Whipple received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Un~Qn in 1830. Like so many students of that era he did not attend for tlie full four years; in his case he was admitted at the beginning of the senior year in 1829. The records which survive do not .show all the courses he took; -they do show that he studied for two terms in Hart- wick Academy and for li;everal terms in Fairfield Academy before he wa::; enrolled at Union. also lacking as to why Squire was so much older than the usual college student of his day, when he entered college. He was born in 1804 and was almost 26 when he received his degree. The Bill Book for the Class Graduating .July 1830 indicates that his father paid twenty-eight dollars for tuition, room-rent, use of college library, servant's hire, printing, expenses in- cidental to Commencement, and Graduation. There is no charge for any damage or for absences from prayers, ~ recitations, -rooms, town, or church; such fines or fees were common on the records of his classmates. ~ ·SqtJire Whipple, Class of l830 His. farnily were New Englanders who had settled in Otsego County, N.Y., in 1817. There seems to be no genealogical evidence or ex- planation of his first name, Squire. It is a given name, not a title or a nickname. Evidence is The Merit Roll indicates that he graduated eighteenth in a class of 96. He was perfect in - - · _ attendance and conduct; not A U 8 everyon.e could claim that t . . ' n· lOll· . distinction. He ~lso ._received . · . . perfect grades m astronomy · . . and chemistry. The Schenec· . · · · · tady Cabinet, in reporting on Ludlow FitzHugh Ludlow's . most famous work, The Hasheesh Eater, was· published in- 1857, only one · year after his graduation from Union. It was an enormous success from the very beginning and earned Ludlow royalties throughout his life. Mrs. M.E.W. Sherwood, a New York literary lady, wrote: ''he held the town in his slender right hand at one time.\ The book has also earned Ludlow lasting fame; he has been called Union's foremost literary man and the FitzHugh Ludlow Memorial Library at the Pacific Medical Center in San Fran- cisco houses the world's largest collection of drug-related materials. ' Ludlow was born in 1837, the son of a prominent abolitionist clergyman, _Reverend H.G. Ludlow. The Reverend ruled his precocious son with a stern, unrelenting hand. FitzHugh learned to read .at the age _of three and by seven he was learning Greek and Latin. His father's strictness bordered on cruelty and this showed 1,1p early in FitzHugh's behavior. By the time his family moved to Poughkeepsie in the 1840's Ludlow was described as \the typical mischevious minister's son.\ Ludlow's mot~r died when he was fourteen and his behavior developed into a great problem for the \very exem- plary minister.\ Ludlow entered the junior clas~ of the College of New Jersey (now Princeton) in 1854. He apparently did fairly well academically, but he was dismissed in the .spring' of 1855 after his dorm, Nassau Hall, burned down. He obtained permission fro.m his father to attend Union, a school that did not ihake mathematics the principle course of study, He returned to Poughkeepsie before starting spring term at Union and made a discovery that changed the course of his life. His friend · Anderson's apothecary in Poughkeepsie had always \exerted a peculiar fascination\ over him and he had early marked it out as his ~'favorite lounging place.\ He had spent hours. there pouring over the thick materials of the Corinnencement exercises, medicine and engaging in more dart of e:x.ultation shot\ through notes that s. Whipple spoke personal \experiments.'·' him. fourth in the morning sessions, - \with a disregard to my own safety that would have done credit to Qllintus Curtius, have I made upon myself the trial of the· effects of every strange drug and· chemical which the laboratory could produce.\ Ludlow had declared himself \a pharmacutical Alexander, with no more drug worlds to conquer,?' when a new shipment arrived from Tilden & Co. containing an extract of Can- -nabis Indica. His first .effective dose was two grams of extract. He was smitten by the \sudden thrill\ at a staid tea party and he was forced to control himself as \a cloud of unutterable strangeness\ settled upon him, wrapping him \impenetrably in from all that was familiar or natural.\ Ludlow's work has been subj~cted to scrutiny by mo~ern experts on drugs 1 and the International .Journal of Addictions has praised the \extraordinary accuracy and perceptiveness of Ludlow's record.\ others have suggested that Ludlow's account is exaggerated but it should be remembered that what Ludlow ate was not hashish but gum extract of Cannabis Indica, which is at least two to three tirnes more potent- than con- temporary preparations, WhUe at Union, Ludlow daily con- swned two to three grams of extract, and his largest dose was equivalent to over half an ounce of contemporary haShish. When his habitually huge doses are considered, together with the fact that he ingested the drag orally, it is easy to see that he passed far beyond mere euphoria into a strongly hallucinatory state. Most of what Ludlow described in The Hasheesh Eater took · place at Union, where Ludlow joined the Kappa Alpha Society and introduced hasbish to many of his brothers. With one of these men, Sidney Norton; Ludlow strolled through Jackson's Gardens one evening. When they reached \the broQk that boW1dS\ 1 'an instantaneous \Could it be possible? Yes, true, beyond doubt! I clapped my hands and cried, \The Nile! The Nile! The eternal Nile.\ The tour returned to campus where Ludlow mistook a studious student's face for a bookcase full of encyclopedias and ended up pulling his nose in an attempt to ta~e down-an , volume. In another aqventure he saw the college poasture (where Fox, Davidson and West are currently located) turn into an Asian plataeu teaming witb . Tartar horsemen. The distant college buildings appeared to be some colossal medieval bat- tlements. with a topic of \Natural Science.\ (Unfortunately, there is no record -of what he said.) Whipple's own assessment of his lite and work for the twenty- five years after graduation is on file in the Alumni\' Office on a record sheet which he filled out on June 25, 1855. Profession: Civil Engineering Where he practiced his profession: Baltimore & Ohio Railroad 1930-32. New York State Canals, N.Y. & Erie Railroad & other works mostly in the State of N.Y. 1833-51. Time not exclusively employed. Other occupations he has followed: Mathematical & Philosophical Instrument-m- aking a portion of the time 1832· 50. Bridge Building in part 1841- There are also humorous episodes: many 55 (present time). ''She was knit of purple yarn! In faultless order the- stitches ran along her face; in every pucker of her reentrant mouth, in,every wrinkle of her frown; she was a young counterfeit of . the grandam of actual life, and by some skillful process of · stuffing her nose had received Continued on page 2 Important offices he has held: Inventor & Builder of the first weigh lock scale for the Erie Canal enlargement at Utica 1841-42. Inventor of Whipple's Patent Iron Truss Bridge, Patented 1841. Patent extended 1855 to 1862. Also, inventor of Whipple's TrapeozoidaCTruss- Bridge for R.R. & other pur- poses where long stretches are F!t,zHugh Ludlow, Class of 1856 required, eitper of wood or iron. The literary or scieutific- works he has written or edited: Whipple's work on Bridge Building, an elementary and practical treatise. Whipple's Moral Essay. A first rate little book, but not appreciated by the present generation. The author, nevertheless, glories in having made this effort in what he sincerely believes to be the cause of Truth and practical goodness. General i nf ormation respecting character, services, success, interesting passages and events in his life, etc.: Stature, 5 ft. 9 inches, weight- 130 pounds, gait, generally erect but sometimes stooping for- ward,- head, ball'd, face, pock marked, bearq grey and six inches long. Thin, meditative, taciturn, diffident and retiring. Recluse in habit, not seeking but rather dreading society, experience forbidding the ex- pectation of meeting with congenial feelings ana aspirations. Loves~ to con- template innocent enjoyment but swells-with indignation at the sight of injustice, violence, and heartlessness, towards the most insignificant being that feels. In the world but not of it, an insular atom of human nature only connected with the mass by a few iron bridges, the necessity of business in- tercourse (et vinculo matrimonii). Has not been strikingly successful in money making, but still, if fortune has any special favors at her disposal, she may probably find plenty of more needy, if not more deserving objects. On the whole, the career of the subject of this notice is rather a tame one; and except to himself, would seem little worth Qeing enlarged upon on this occasion. The \Moral Essay\ to which its author referred as \A first rate little book,\ was actually entitled The Way to Happiness: Being an Essay on the Motives to Human Actions and the Fundamental Principles of 1\IJorality. Whipple seems to have been correct in his com- ment \not appreciated by the present generation.\ He. gave a copy to Union College Library, but no other libraries have reported owning that title to the ._National Union Catalog of Pre- 1956 Imprints. The work does not seem to represent any particular denominational view of morality, which may,account for its relative obscurity then and now. The chapter headings give an idea of the book: Property-means of acquiring it--and incidental con- siderations. Relations between men and other animals-their influences, etc. Reswnption of the inquiry in relation to the acquisition of food and other necessities. Avoidance of aggression, and the pursuit of knowledge. Social enjoyment, and con- clusion. Whipple's dislike of violence of any kind included the killing of animals for food, and he was an. ardent vegetarian. The Alumni Office form .does not indicate that the so-called Continued fln page 4

'Page 2 FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY, lr!ay 1, .1980 FitzHug~. L_udlow Day '80~......._. Whipple Truss Bridge OFFICE OF' THI!: PREGIOENT UNION COI.~IEGt: SCHENECTADY. N \0' 12~08 TEL ttl10r 346 8'l'51 One of my first and most vivid .memories .of ·Union Co•! lege was I my encounter with the .First 'FitzHugh Lucllow l>ay last yeaL :As the newly appointed pres i·dent, begi.nn·i·ng to be aware cif ·the wei·gh.t of p.r,oblems descending upon me, FitzHugh Ludlow :Day dawned with a very different vi·ew of the College. The memory .is of good humor, gent·le fun, good feelings, easy compani•ons·hip,. ana· an open-hearted , acceptance of the College and its traditions. It was this student reaffirmation of the meani'ng· of their college experience as a fundamentaHy good experi·ence that made such an impression upon, us. ·May the spirit of that day continue and the hopes for this ~.econd annual FitzHugh Lud,Jow Day gleam bright as the De·lphic ·water. John ·s. Morris. \ ' by RICHARDR PIKUL Assistant Professor· Civil Engineering A 58 foot long historic bridge is currently under recon- struction on the Union College campus. Engineering, and construction activity has been largely performed by students under faculty guidance. Much has been learned about how to, and also how not to, construct such a stmctuFe. The :bridge consists of two ar.ched truss assemblies supporting an 8 foot wide timber deck. The arched trusses resemble an archer's bow, hence the term bowstring truss. This particular structure was . originally built under the renewed 1855 patent of Squire Whipple, a graduate. of the Union College Class of 1830. • In 1847, Squire Whipple published the first work in America describing the theory of stresses in bridge trusses. His work was printed in Utica, New York and was entitled, \A Work The Original Whipple Truss Briclge, residing in its first home.in 'Johnstown. on Bridge· Building.\ Robert Vogel, in \A Report ·Gf the Mohawk-Hudson Area Survey\ Smithsonian Study No-. 26, 1973, notes that Whipple's work was widely· distributed and reprinted having a flk reaching effect in establishing scientific bridge design in this country. He has been rightly called 'the father of iron ·bridges in Americct' .\ The .story .of how an example of Whipple's engineering and inventiveness came to the Union College campus is rather long and involved. The idea originated in J975 With the History aM Heritage Com- mittee .of the Mohawk-Hudson Section, American Society of CiVil Engineers, which, under the chairmanship . of Prof. Robert Palmer of RPI, decided it would be fitting to nominate a Whipple Bowstring ·Truss as a National Civil Engineering Lamhnark. It is believed the author, being a member of the committee, suggested that Union might be interestea in providing ·a- permanent, safe home. for such a structure considering that Squire Whipple was an honored alumnus. Prof. Palmer strongly supported the concepti and a series of events· culminated with a feasibility study of the project performed by R. Shirts, J. Testa,. and W .D. Wade, Class of 1979. As a result of their efforts, one of the four surviving Whipple truss spans in the area was donated to the College by the. City of John- stown, New York in 1979. The 58 foot long structure had apanned the Cayadutta Creek on an abandoned section of roadway owned by the city. An early photograph indicates 19th Century factories were con- nected by the truss span. The bridge was built by Shipman & Sons, Builders, Springfield were preserved), Winter term, 1980, senior Richard Colo finali2ed rehabilitation of the cast iron. and steel super- st:ructure. and assembled the truss in half seCtions in the P()tter Laboratory building. During this same time period, senior Carl Snyder finalized site plans and concrete abutment designs. Implementation of the final construction during this · terl!l is being ,coordinated ?Y semor Matt VanBenthem with foundation construction being performed by the author's Reinforced Concrete Design Glass. Superstructure assembly, behind Achilles Rink, is being accomplisbed by numerous volunteers with ASCE student chapter support. If all proceeds according to plan, the concrete abutments shoulr;l be completed by May 30th. The a~;;sembled bridge structure will then be lifted into place by crane with the com- pleted structure open for pedestrians by graduation. It is expected that formal opening of the bridge may be delayed until Fall term to properly ·prepare for the gala event. It is expected that the bridge will be nominated as a National Civil Engineering Landmark to commemorate the con- tributions of Squire Whipple to bridge building in America. On campus the bridge will serve as a pedestrian walkway crossing the 'brook that bounds: and linking the northeast residential units to the main campus as part of the college master plan. The structure will be located behind Achilles Rink and span to the Oak Grove across the brook. Ludlow At Union. • Center, New York, ap- proximately 115 years ago. It is not clear whether Johnstown -was the original homEr of the • . str~cture, since numerous -spans were constructed over the original Erie Canal and then relocated during a widening in the 1870's. · It is estimated that more than fifty undergraduates have been involved in some aspect of the removal, rehabilitation and reconstruction. Funding by the IEF plus contributions by local contractors and material suppliers have been essential to implementation of the project. As the final construction phase is in operation, volunteers are more than welcome to par- ticipate in this landmark event\ The assembled· superstructure and partial foundation con- struction may be viewed behind the rink. The project i~ a real engineering challenge and of a scale seldom undertaken by students. All involved ~hould take great pride in the ac- complishments to date. Continued from page 1 its due peak and her chin its , projectiQD. The occupants 1>f the s·eats below were all but reproductions of their president, and both she and they were constantly swaying from side to side, forward and back,. to the music of some invisible instrwnents, whose tone and style were most intel}sely and ludicrously Ethiopian. Not a word was spoken by any of the wooly conclave, but with un- tiring industry they were all knitting, k:nitting ceaselessly, as if their lives depended on it. I looked to see the object of their manufacture. They were knitting old women like themselves!. . . . 'Here,' I cried, 'here at last, do I realize the meaning of endless progression.\' The Hasheesh Eater is a confessional work. By the time Ludlow reached Union m April, 1855 hashish had already become \something of a habit\ for him, but he still convinced himself that he wa:s only con- ducting scientific research. He \experimevted\ himself into a state of almost continuous in- toxication, eating hashish every day for a period of six months. During his senior year he made many attempts to abandon hashish, but the drug had taken a tyranizing hold over him. Ludlow lived with the K.A. Society on the fourth floor of North College. In a letter to his young cousin, Ludlow described college life: ''A good many of the students . . . learn more bad than good, They drink rum, and fight and sometimes tease the teacher very much. Once they took a poor old horse into the house and carried him upstairs and made him look out the window to make his owner angry.\ entered the law office of William Curtis Noyes, a prominent lawyer in New York. ·Magazine editors treated him like a boy wonder and he published.p1any humorous short stories and poems in leading magazines, such as Harper's .. Monthly and Atlantic. In 1857 he married Rosalie Osborne \an moved into the New York. Ludlow was described by his literary circle composed of brothers in K.A. as genial, Bayard Taylor, T:B. Aldrich, uncommonly eloquent in speech Stedman· and others. and writing and a confirmed Problems with drug abuse pUI)ster. One wrote that be had early marred what seemed to \an almost dangerous facility be a very promising career. In of expression.\ 1858 he was forced to close his Ludlow was the class poet and law office to undertake the first ·he wrote \Ode to Union\ for the of many water cures to conquer 1856 commencement. An \habits :of stimulus.\ By 1863 apocryphal legend relates how his life had become tangled with Ludlow wrote out, the Alma financial obligations, constant Mater in a hashish trance and.. use of hashish, opium, tobacco threw it away, only to have his and alcohol and -marital roommate recover it. This is problems caused in part by his possible because Ludlow flirtatious and promiscuous always wrote out the final wife Rosalie. On the advice of copies of his. manuscripts in a friends h~ took a trip west by beautiful hand with hardly an stage coach with the famous erasure or correction. The Ameri'can landscape. ,painter Alma Mater is set to the air of Albert Bierstadt. They stayed in \Sparkling and Bright\ a Salt Lake City as guests of notorious drinking s~ng by Brigham Young and the Mor- Charles Fenno Hoffman. - mons. In San Francisco Ludlow After graduation Ludlow spenf the suminer as guest of obtained a teaching position at the famous clergyman Thomas Watertown Academy through Starr King. He gave advice and the agency of Union, where he encouragement to Mark Twin, wrote The Hasheesh Eater as a Brett Harte and other young theurapeutic effort to abandon writers gathered in the offices the use of haShiSh. of the Golden Era Newspaper. After the publication of The Th~ trip is recorded in The Hasbeessh E,ater Ludlow's Heart .of the Continent by fortunes rose mercurially. He Continued· on pa'ge 4 During. the Spring of '1979, Shirts and Testa, armed witb funds from the Internal Education Fund and assisted by R. Viola, Class of '79, phis the students from the author's Structural Steel Design Class managed to remove the antique stuctures from Johnstown and transport them to the College campus. During the Fall of 1979, seniors S. George and L. Pitt, revised plans and drawings developed during the. Spring and proceeded with replacement of the wrought iron tension rods of ·the truss· with common structural steel (cast i:ron compression arch mem- bers jind connections blocks \ ' *· ~\'\\' .. • Note: Members of the Union College community should make an attempt to visit the reconstruction site of the Whipple Truss Bridge behind - A~~illes ~ink. ~embep of the ClVll Engmeermg Department will be on the · bridge this Saturday and will be happy to answer any questions at that timett:.J · ····'\ O\lglnal Patent for Whipple Truss 8rldge, 1885. by I There is of us to no surroundi1 and thent past as '' This trui common academi< singular 1 strive to l valueswh the Sixtie than ever 'is, hov evidence which su~ now sofai be. Charles who fort the editot Monthly, recollecU College section dergradt Union, W Friday get tight~ noise w returned midnight night dur visiting f mychapt brothers: The two friend w sleep. So studying exarnina1 class mat six feet t athlete, j visitor. 0 a pair oj marchin1 down th against 1 Finally, defeated victim w

~ FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY, May 1, 1980 Pages --\'-----FitzHugh Ludlow Day '80~· · - Now Are The Good 01' Days by PAUL FEINSOT There is a tendency within all of us to note the changes in our surroundings, drastic or subtle, and then to look fondly at times past as \the good ol' days.'' This truism. is particularly common among Union's academicians, though not singular to them. Those who strive to r~gain the traditional values which were torn away in the Sixties are more adamant than ever in their qpest. There 'is, however, significant evidence in Union's history which suggests that we are not now so far from what we used to be. Charles Newman Waldron, who for twenty-five years was the editor of the Union Alumni Monthly, published a ser'ies of recollections titled The Union College I Remember. In a section describing his un- dergraduate experience at Union, Waldron writes\ Friday night was the time to get tight and there was plenty of noise when the roisterers returned to the campus after/ midnight. I recall one hot spring night during exam week when a visiting friend of a member of my chapter came back with hyo brothers all wonderfully soused. The two went to bed, but the fr~end would have no p!J,rt of sleep. Some of the boys were studying for final examinations; and I found my classmate Otto von Danenberg, six feet three, and our hardiest athlete, trying to sober up this visitor. Otto was naked, save for a pair of red slippers. He was marching the drunk up and down the hall, bumping him against the wall at each end. Finally, a tub of cold water defeated K.ing Aleohol, and the victim was willing to Ue quietly in bed-. Aside from the obvious dif- ferences in the terminology, there have been many .nights. at Union which have ·equaled the one described above. We would not expect this kind of activity to occur on an exam weeknight, and yet because of the nature of the College student mtd College memories in. general (the bull flies everywhere) ~ it is con- ceivable that this aspect has been exaggerated for effect. Anyone who has worked on the Concordiensis can tell you that the basic issues on campus rarely change at all. Looking back at the Concordies of the past twenty years, one -would come tothe conclusions that1;he same news is being printed over and over. The rare exception to this is when a Bonner or a Harkness or even a Chet Arthur surfaces (or in Chet's case, is resurfaced with paint) and gives the campus reason to stir. For . example, in 1968 the student body entered a proposal to end social rules on the campus. The student govern- ment. formed a committee to study the systems used in other · colleges where students made their own rules. The Concordy reported that, \The Student Council arrived at the close decision (a 9-8 vote in favor of the motion) after several members expressed dissatisfaction · with the proposal because of several as yet unanswered questions.\ Both the somewhat unin- for!Jlative manner of reporting, and the obvious infighting among memb.ers of the Student Government are things which seem as overt then as they are today. This is not to condemn those people who participate in such activities, but rather to suggest that issu~s or not, the campus seems to- react in a \business as usual\ manner. To further illustrate the point, the proposal mentioned above was debated for five weeks, the issue was tabled, and discussion was not reswned until the following.. This serves to prove that -things moved as slowly then as they do now. This is all .a part of Union's unique personality. Dixon Ryan Fox, the twelfth president of Uniou. College, begins his book, Union College: An .Unfinislied .History, by talking about personality. No one· who bas lived in a College-any college, even for a few days--needs to be told that such an institution has a per- ~onality. Its architecture may / be prosy and conventiollal, though every care .had been taken to hold' itto accepted type. Possibly its catalogue of courses could, by the easy expedient of c]).anging cover and totle.page, be syndicated for the benefit of scores of other institutions. Its noisy grand- stands, its sedate sessions on Commenceme.nt Day, its alumni banquets, its presidential utterances, may all seem triumphs of conformity. Nevertheless, on closest scrutiny, a college has- a per- sonality, with a complex of traits, habits, judgments, and aspirations that is to be found in no other place. President Fox wrote also of the immortal personal life of an institution which, at Union, comes through strongly as a result of its traditions. He was - writing at the time about ''old- _Union\ (which actually was a young Union). The president related that the motto was not taken from the conventional Latin, Gre.ek, or Hebrew as had been done elsewhere for ages of time. The College instead cbose to take one from the French- Sous les lois de Minerve nous devenons tous freres-We all become brothers under the law of Minerva. President Fox writes that \there was ample respect to the classical tradition in the words, and in the casque- surmounted head of the wise goddess which Isaac Hutton carved within the oval garland that they made on the College seal.\ In this new nation, now brought into union under -the Constitution, there were to be no artificial distinctions among men; instead, there was the ideal · of fraternal in- terdependence and cooperation, which the motto so em- phatically endorsed, as far as this institution was concerned. The single most important aspect of this College's per- sonalitywas the long leadership of its fourth president, Eliphalet Nott. In November of 1878, a monument that was to become· the central structure of this campus, and a memorial to its most distinguished President, was completed. This ''sen- timental icon\ of the campus is Schedule Of Events· celebrated in The N ott Memorial: A Historic Structure Report, by Mendel, Mesick and Cohen, Architects. This study begins: One hundred and siXty years ago this summer ( :J.973, i.e., 1813) an epochal dream assumed visible form on Nisquonta Hill above the old Dutch settlement of Schenec- tady. A French architect 9 heir to the revolu.tion in human thought that had occurred in. the last decades of the eighteenth -century, and a Presbyterian nlilliSter turned college ~ , president, intent upon realizing the impact of that revolution in the education of a new nation's youth, conceived a new campus for Union College. The resulting plan would amplify the spirit of the time, of that place, of their . individual visions. Now that the tendency to \recollect in tranquility\ has been played out by looking into the past, let us examine our findings. It has been deter- mined that old times are good times, yet today and tomorrow (soon to be old tiines) are not so much different. Though at- titudes and faces change (sometimes for the better), traditions do not. Therefore Union's personality lives on (scarred, but not destroyed). TilDe Evellt Location 10:00 11:00 11:30 12~00 1:00 \-' 2:45 3:00 5:00 7:30 . 9:00 10:00 Jazz Ensemble Library Plaza Coffee & Donuts Side of Nott Rugby Tournament Library Field Lacrosse Game Garis Field Broken String Band Library Plaza · (Bluegrass Band) . Barbeque Side of Carnegie Opening ·Ceremonies Library Field ;§ .President JohnS. Morris Mystery Band Library Plaza Delta Gamma Olym.pics \Library Field \ Rugby Tournament Lib.rary Field ' \ Square Dance Library Plaza Movies Library Plaza Fireworks Alexander Field \· AD Day Activities Event Location Creative Anachronisms Ride T-Shirts & Beanie Sales Balloons Volleyball, Parachute & Frisbees Graffiti Wall Historical Exhibit .. Jackson's Gardens Side of Nott Front of Carnegie Front of Memorial Chapel Front of Psych. Building--- Library ,. •

Page 4 FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY, M~y 1, 1980 Seward vs. Toombs In the 1820's Union was the college choice of more un- dergraduates than Harvard or Yale (a tribute to Eliphalet Nott's leadership). A good share of them came from the South; in 1821, for example, the college had students from Kentucky, Louisiana, Virginia,_ North Carolina, South Carolina, Maryland, Mississippi, and the District of Columbia. One of those Southern students..:...Robert A. Toombs-was to become one- half of a unique combination-- · two men from the same college serving concurrently as Secretary of State. prepare tor a career in law. At age 27 he became a member of the Georgia state legislature; at age 34, he was elected to Congress. He worked in a spirit of compromise between North and South. With the rise of the basically sectional .Republican party, however, he finally gave up hopes of pr_eserving the Union. In January, 1861, he made his farewell speech in the Senate, and In the next month he took the oath of office· in Jefferson Davis' cabinet. The South Wl;lS a nation at war, though, and there was little time to plan towards establishing the Confederacy among the nations of the world. Toombs became, in effect, the chief clerk for the Davis ad· ministration. In July, 1861, he resigned to accept his com· mission as a brigadier general . . , . It could have happened only during the Civil War, of course, when Toombs, of the Class of 1828, was Secretary of State for the Confederacy at the same time .his fellow ,alumnus, William H. Seward, of the Class of 1820, was Secretary of State for the North. · in (he Confederate Army. After the war, he resumed his law practice, but he was to play little part in politics. William H. Seward, Class of 1820 a.nd Robert Augustus Toombs, Class of lB2B, respectively. Toombs was the son ef a well· to-do planter who accepted - slavery and the sovereignty of the states as a way of social and political life of his region. He entered Franklin College in Georgia, which was to evolve into the University of Georgia, but transferred to Union for his senior year--ostensibly to escape an official reprimand for playing cards, an acti~ity banned at Franklin. From Union he went to the University of Virginia to Seward left a more notabl~ mark in history-govemor of New York, United States Senator, Secretary of State from 1861 to 1869, the man responsible for the purchase of Alaska. Seward was from a hamlet in Orange County, New York, and carne to Union because of the reputation of President Nott. A sound student, he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and graduated with highest honors. He -was - admitted to the bar in 1822. and e_lect~d state senator eight years later, at the age of 29. He was governor of New York at age 37, a U.S. Senator at age 48. This political training served . him well in the State Depart- ment, for he understood that American foreign policy must be closely integrated with American public opinion. lie became ·an outstanding Secretary of State.In the Union College series· of booklets, ''Union Worthies,'' a history professor writes that he once asked a number of scholars1n the fieH.i of Ameri~n diplomacy to rate the Secretaries of State. John Quincy Adams was first, Seward second, and by a sub- staptiat margin. The professor says this about Seward: \' . . . he was aware of American political ideals, but he was also intensely practical; he . was capable of decisive Historical Hint Hunt So you think you know something about Union? Try your luck at answering the following ten questions. The person who answers the most questions correctly will win aT-shirt and an official Union College beanie. Answers are due in the Student Activities Office by 5: 00 on FitzHugh Ludlow Day. A committee of historians, chaired by Squire Whipple, will judge the answers and announce the winner at the fireworks. display. Good luck. 1. A new type of arch supporting the roof of this building caused much interest among civil engineers and sidewalk superintendents alike while the building was under .construction. National technical publications also carried photographs and discussions. What building is it, and when was if opened? 2. These two women, although. not directly con- nected with the College, have been _active and im· portant in its twentieth century history. Their por- traits hang in one of the Campus buildings. Who are they and where are the pictures? · .. 3. This nineteenth century alumnus artd trustee has his portrait in Hale House. It was painted in what might be called the ''dark brown'' manner. Every day a number of people pass by tbe memorial to him. What is his name and where is the plaque? 4. ''Rosemary for remembrance\ might well be the theme of this recent benefactor of Union. Who is he and what was his gift? 6. This botanical specimen. sometimes called a living fossil, had a mate strategically located off- . campus. What is it, ·and where is Union's? 7. This building- is often and incorrectly described as round. How many sides does it actually have? Do you have a geometrical term Which desc.rJbes it ac- curately? · 8. This alumnus's best known literary work is used as part ofthe Campus .memorial to him. What are the · words of the first line of the last verse as it appears on the memorial? 9. Students walk by this memorial plaque every day. The tablet commemorates the do!J.or of a major gift for engineering scholarships·. What is his name and where is the remaining tablet? 10. Part of his eqUipment has disappeared over the years, but this valiant citizen still occupies a prominent place in one of. the busy buildings on Campus. Who was the _sculptor? Squire Whipple • • • Continued from page 1 \Moral Essay\ and the book for Which Whipple is best known were both published in the same · year, 1847. AWork on Bridge Buildin.g, Consisting of Two Essays, the One Elementary and General, the Other Giving Original Plans, .and Practical · Detalls. for Iron and Wooden Bridges was privately published and did not ~ppear in widely available form until it was issued by Van Nostrand Company in 1872. It was reprinted twice in the 1880's and was. in print until1889. In discussing Whipple's work, Shortridge Hardesty, in a speech on Founders' Day, 1949, characterized the book as \remarkable.\ It provided for rational methods of bridge design, methods which were desperately needed as ~the railroads pushed westward. Hardesty goes on to say that the\' book \ .. , indicated clearly Mr. Whipple' s· thorough, completely logical grasp of the principles of bridge design. In weighing them, one must remember that they were developed ,entirely by the author, since no one. previously had been able to calculate stresses and consider any of th~ theoretical aspects .. \ Whipple does not seem to have made' a fortune from his patents or from his books, nor is he the first person one thinks of in any listing of noted Union alumni. He seems to have been content to let his bridges and other engineering works speak for him. It is fortunate that one of his bridges has come home, so to speak, and is presently being re-erected over the --College brook. action~ but he knew, too, when to temporize and even concede. He had faith in the future of America,. and- in the future of democracy. He justly mingled tbe ·appeal to reason and the appeal to feeling. I! is by the arts that he practiced, by the balanee that he maintained, b.Y the high purposes which he pursued, that the people of the United States will he best served in the field of diplomacy.\ Ludlow At Union. • • Continued from .page 2 Ludlow and in many enormous landscapes by Bierstadt. Ludlow's affairs continued to deteriorate after his return in 1864. His wife divorced him and · married Bierstadt after he had a scandalous . affair with a married woman in Kansas. Opium addiction became' a great problem and his health continued to deteriorate. Ludlow made many attempts to give up opium but the habit continued to grow throughout his life. At one time he used nearly 50 grains of morphi,ne per day, a habit .that cost the enormoJ.IS sum of $28.00 per month. Although he could not save himself, he did much-to help other sUfferers. His article on poium addiction in Harper's Monthly \What Shall They Do to be Saved\ was highly praised. He edited The Opium Habit-in 1868 and increased his_ already substantial knowledge of medicine in order to answer the hundreds ·of, letters he received. from fellow addicts. Ludlow married th~ widow of Judge Mulliken of Augusta, Maine in ·1868, a woman ten years his senior. He suffered two years from pub:nomrry tuberculosis before dying in Switzerland on the day after his thirty-fifth birthday. A friend wrote, \although he died of consumption ... ·unquestionably his e~rly--death was the result of the strain to which his physical organization had been sub- jected for years.\ · Throughout all of his later troubles Lqdlow never lost his love for his Alma Mater. Years after graduating he wrot~ to Professor Pearson, \Union has .always been one of my idols. I have hardly ever seen the time, even when my prospects in a wordly point of view were most fl~tt-ering when I would not have abandoned them to return to the pleasantest hOme of my\ life.'~ fac• Gc In a 1 faculty the ne systern large affirm 18 abs will no the Be June 1 pe.cted will t; 1980 . Pre descri by the clearl to m< gover resolv acade he sa Pre chair: Struc and f Prof€ warn wide as ·~ thusi facul u Th As so orga stud4 stitu Dud .... Coli Ph a Coli Sch1 prir fad betv Tl this up stuc sch Unl at t' giVI and rna plil pe< pro the Thl res mi pa1 1 oq for po: atl ba ka ba ac Sh co va gr Al se pl Cl c1 s~ w rr S' b b rl c

e Lt d 11 y It e e e 1- d n n [. e- ;s n n n .e '-::·; - RO·TC·- .. . Credit On Appeal It was reported in last week's Concordiensis that the issue of granting credit towards a l::Jni<:m diploma to ROTC courses had been settled. This was based ..en the April 14th vote of the Educational Policy Committee which decided agaii1St granting such credit, feeling that ROTC courses could not be regarded as equivalent to Union col.lfses. Tim Co()lE;y and Randy Petyak, the two students who brought up this proposal, were not satisfied with the EPC's decision and are appealing to the highest on- campus decision making body, the All£ampus Senate, on May 22. ' . . the Air Force ROTC unit left campus, so that Union ROTC students must now take tneir courses at RPI. These two students are hoping that the Senate will recognize the work th~y put into these ROTC courses and grant them credits which can be used towards obtaining their Union degrees. However, the Senate, at the present time, is a lame duck body due to the expected adoption of the new governance system and bas not met since last fall. It is feared that it w.ill be difficult to call together a quorum, further reducing the chance that the issue will be fl.nally resolved this year. ·- ~·- -; ,._.\ '\.,. :;-. 1 \' ~ \\\ ' ~ . - ..... / :: t... -~~·· •, ~~;.,;,.; 1---. May 8, 1980 Vol. 109, No. 22 • Cooley and Petyak, both upperclass ROTC members, have been working to get Union credits for the courses they are required to take at RPI as wrt , of the ROTC program. These courses are in management amt American defense policies. What -they h~:~ve proposed is to receive two credits for the four semester coiirses taken during their juni.or and senior years. These would not be credits used to fulfill liberal learning requirements.. As it stands now, ROTC students are taking ninety hours of classes per year, in addition to their nine Union courses, and are receiving no college· credit for them. Cap And Gown Co. On Strike Cotrell & Leonard, Inc. Boycotted On Many Campuses Prior to 1970, when there was an Air Force ROTC unit on .campus, Union credit-s were given for their courses. However, when the college stopped granting faculty status to Air Force faculty, they also stopped - granting \ credit for ROTC courses. Subsequently HousJng ·toHery: by EDWARD ALBRO Cotrell & Leonard, Inc., the company which supplies Union College with caps and gowns for graduation, is presently em- broiled in a controversial and divisive dispute over labor representation. Last summer, som-e Cotrell & Leonard employees started proCI;ldures intended to lead to represen- tation of the company's ap- proximately 90 workers by the • International Ladies Garment Workers Union, This action has led at this point to the filing of three complaints against C & L by the National Labor Relations Openings Clarified Below is :;1 listing of up- perelass available housing according to lifestyle. Your lottery number is ·somewhat relative in that students who have a better lottery number than you may not want on campus housing-making your housing lottery chances that much better. The Residence Life Office will not provide any further information on in- dividual lottery chances. ALL FEMALE RESIDENCE HALLS: Singles: Fox (all female floor) Davidson North & Bronner Richmond total singles Doubles: North & Bronner Richmond total doubles 1 1 42 11 55 20 10 30 Doubles: Webster South Hickok · ~ total doubles ·Triples: South College 11 19 !~ 4 CO• ED RESIDENCE HALLS: Suites: Male: Davidson Fox total suites Female:. · Davidson Fox - total suites 14 11 25 10 5 15 On the basis of square footage, and because of the increasing demand for on~ campus housing, the following ALL MALE HALLS: RESIDENCE rooms have had normal oc- Singles: Fox ( 2 on co-ed floor) Davidson ( 4 on co•ed floor) Webster Souf;Co~ege tot~ . siDg es cupancy level increased from two to three: South College 420, 421, 427. The decision was made with full consultation and ap- 6 proval of the Housing Com- 6 mittee. These figures are the 8 minimum projections and do 14 not include spaces available for 34 independants in Greek ~-Organizations. Board and a boycott of company products by approximately 45 schools, mostly in the Nor- theast. The three complaints, which are sti1l pending in court, allege that: the company refused to reinstate workers who had gone out on strike for representation, statements made by ad- ministrative officials of the company interfered with em- ployee rights to self organization, and anti-union demonstrations (pickets and petitions) were organized among employees by management. The boycott has spread to such colleges as Harvard, Amherst, Princeton, Tufts, the University of Penn- sylvania, and Swarthmore. At . present, Union plans to take no action on Garment Workers Union Requests for a boycott Garment Workers' Union Representative Cheryl Schaffer recounted the events of the dispute as follows: C & L em- ployees came to the Union last summer with the desire to obtain representation at the Albany based company. Union interest cards were obtained from 49 of what the Union ap· proximates was a full staff of 60 people. On the basis of this show of interest, the Union asked C & L to acknowledge them as representatives of the com- pany's work force. T-his request was denied and on August ll, 1979, 45 employees supporting the Union went out on strike to force representation. The Union claims that these workers were in effect fired because on three separate occasions they offered to return and were refused by the _company. In addition, the Union alleges that management . ..used various forms of in- timidation, including threats to fil•e striking employees' relatives and to close the shop entirely. Ms. Schaffer went on to characterize C & L generally as _''basically a sweatshop.'' The building she described as very old and. dirty with insufficient bathroom facilities, great ac- cumulations of lint, and stairways and fire escapes blocked by storage materials. She reported that the em- ployees, who are skilled in the use of velvet and other fabrics, received minimum wage and had no company financed 1 benefits. \It's a question of concern for your employees,\ Ms. Schaffer commented, \The firm just saw them as an inexhaustable resource.\ Reporting that NLRB proceedings would take at least 16 months in all to be com- pleted, Schaffer said, \Justice put off that long really isn't justice. We hope the boycotts will force them (C & L) to give these people their jobs back. •• The s.cenario of events presented by Anthony J. Harden, Vice President of C & L differed s~gnificantly with that of Ms. Schaffer. It is as follows: on July 30, 1979, the Union sent the company a letter reporting the results of the card count and demanded that the company acknowledge them as rightful representatives. In a letter dated August 7, 1979 Mr. Harden replied by casting doubt upon the results of a card count and asking for a secret em- ployee ballot. The following day, Union~supporting em- ployees struck the factory. Mr. Harden disagreed with the union account of the number of strikers. He claimed that only approximately 30 people of a total staff of 90 went on strike. Mr. Harden recalled only two occasions in which the strikers . requested to return to work. In both these cases, the workers were invited into the factory as a preliminary gesture. In the first instance, management r_equested that the two outside Garment Workers' Union organizers leave. In response, all strikers left the building. In the second case, the company had only 16 positions still open, but offered to put all o.ther strikers on a preferred waiting list. All strikers again walked out in a·show of soli9arity. In addition, Mr. Harden \categorically denied'' all charges broug_!lt by the NLRB. In essence, the most im- portant point of the dispute is the position of each side towards a secret ballot. Mr. Harden reported that C & L desired a secret ballot, but that the workers struck in response to his request for one. Ms. Schaffer claimed that the request was made while Union supporters were on strike and unable to vote, thus making any ballot invalid. Because of the conflicting nature of the reports from both sides of the dispute, two Con- cordiensis reporters toured the Albany facilities of Cotrell and Leonard in order to evaluate working conditions and in- terview workers. In general, it was confirmed that the building . was extremely old and dirty. The claim of insufficient bathroom facilities was found to be untrue, but the charge of blocked stairwells was wrtially confirmed. While the stairways were not unpassable, they were used for storage of large boxes. Though no large accumulations of lint were found, ventilation · was poor which led to much lint in the air. Mr. Harden reported that in 1973 the Cotrell and Leonard building was inspected by the Occupational Health and Safety Agency and was cited for numerous violations which the Agency characterized as \non- serious.\ The violations, which were all later corrected, con- sisted of such things as im- proper wiring, lack of a fire extinguisher, lack of safety markings, and absense of safety devices on many hand operated machines . All employees interviewed, Continued on .page 5 .·_. •· .'I:S$0i~: .. · ._.-- · · . ' p.g,.'2 ;·'''\'>_ ..... PP~. ~..a . <6;.1··· ,;_. ' ,,,..,

' Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS~ May 8~ 1980 Editorial A Lo.ser~s Lottery It appears that the prime issue capable of avercorning student apathy is, and has been, the ap- palling situation of on-campus hollSing, as well it should be. As calculated from figures released by the Residence Life office tsee article , page 1'). only 175 upperclass women wi:ll find on-campus housing, and spaces eXist fat only 226 upperclass men. The figlll'.es do not take inta consideration the thirty additional students housed' in McKean and Smith c~ops and the independent slots in the fraternities and sororities. Steps currently being ·taken by the Residence Life office, however, will severely limit rooms occupied by fraternities housed iil donns. This utter dearth of facilities is a shameful situation for the'prestigious institution that Union purports to be. Not only are upperclass students forced to live off campus or in the fraternity atmosphere which they ·had deliberately opted out of, but freshmen must begin their college experience in less than favorable living conditions. Though the administration annually pleads that they are \working on\ the problem, each year sees an outrageous number of freshmen in five-man suites, and next fall for the first time, five-woman suites. This fact is. obviously not advertised to prospective students. It is a fact we cannot be proud of. Also, along the lines of freshmen housing-we strongly object to limiting West College to freshmen. This policy produces a two-fold disadvantage to students: uppetelassmen lose the apportumty of living in a double on a co-ed floor; and freshmen lose the valuable advantage of the upperclassmen's experienee-infonnation on courses, professors and social life, and their steadying influence. ]he opportunity of me<!ting a widely varied group of :people is also forfeited. It is unfair to leave these responsibilities to the only upperclassmen present-'the two RA 'sper floor. . We resent the lack of action on this deplorable state. We believe that more facts on the actual situation should be made available to the students, both present and incoming, before it is too late for anything to be done about it. We strongly encourage students to stand up fot t.heU: rights for reasonable comfort, privacy, and an envirorunent conducive to study. Unless actwn IS taken, we are all losers in this year's lottery. Sometim,es Pictures Speak As Well As Words. • ... ~ Ill ttl. ;;::· ll. E .... o· z >- .c Ill ~ 0 .s:: c. To All of Those Involved in Bringing \FitzHugh Ludlow Day\ to Union: Thank you so much for creating a carnival of good times, friends,. and traditions on ~st Saturday! From the much needed coffee f1rst thing in the morning, to the ciwhoops-there-goes- my-lunch\ ride, the day was a celebration. We all needed to shake off winter and formally welcome spring back to U~Coll. In spite of the fact that a parachute-looking amoeba attempted to engulf the volleyball players midaft~moon~I can th~ of no casualties. Thank you agam, and here'-s hopmg tbe rest of the Springtime Celebrations will be as . full JOY • Sincerely, ¢\-\\ ~ ~ .... ,., .. :~ ~-\\'- - ·- To the Union College CommWlity: I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of you for helping me honor my good friend, Squire Whippl~. Your enthusiasm and spirit brought back fond memories of the ~egood old days.'' It is good to know that after all these years, we still are truly a . \Union of People.'' . Once again, thanks for your help. I can't wait wttil we can get together again ne1rt year. Siqcerely, FitzHugh Ludlow Class of 1856 Connor Jane O'Br~~V.·\; .: .. . : ... f. , • 4 -.~.!:t~. ·~ .·:·:~ .... -\ .. j f&....:.~o.~ .... x~~~ ..... ··~v.z,-~:er~ .. -~.<1!:¥~. those who watched and par· ticipated in the Delta Gamma Olympics held this past Saturday. Thanks for making this event a successful one and entertaining for those involved. We would also like to congratulate our overall win- ning teams: 1st place··The Mishaps; 2nd place·fiThe Southern Ro,ckers; and 3rd place-The Zoocrew. Again, thanks to all! PREFERABLY at the May .. 26 meeting. If you have any questions regarding the Master Calendar, please feel free to call Diane Winkler, 1)098, or Mike Andolina, 6061. Security Appreciation To the Editor: The Sisters and Pledges of Delta Gamma Calendar. In The Works I wish to* thank the many people that se~t cards and tho~ whose thoughts and prayers were with me. during my recent hospital stay. To the Campus Community: Sincerely, Sgt. Bill Paszeskt · Security ., .. flicts and try to in the -Beer competition among ,andhavereallyenjoyed organizations and departments myself. This letter is not aimed for \audiences.\ This can at stopping the beer rally, but . (easily, welwpe) be avoided for rather at initiating some next year if all concerned changes. Many teams wit\' cooperate THIS SPRING in nessed the near-collision of an scheduling major fwctions. oneoming car with a Betfl In an effurt to get a Master drinker when he slipped off the Calendar for next year off the back of his team's car, right ground, we are calling a after the ustrotgun.\ Perhaps meeting for May 28· in Strauss · · €hi ,~,Psi· br0thers could direet Lounge at 9 a.m. to assign cars nut involved in the beer ' specific dates and facilities for rally·~. in another direetioo · ttJ major events. At this meeting mitt possible aceidents. · · potentta1 eontliets ·· · ean. · ··be 'file next incident· T witnessed resolved well in advance. If you was much more severe. are planning an event· for the Members of my team and I left 1980--81 year, it would be to your 's before 11 p.m. to get i!<ln···<>;;>i•l~h,.··<~hil•~·t··:h~\'k- ··As ut~~>•''l'rftft> editor-in-chief donna creeley managing editor jim davis news editors ed albro, ellen van dyke features editors dan booth, paul grossmag arts editor judi.chervenak photo editors nonn pflaster, pam ryan sports editor rich hope assistant sports editor bill curtin women's sports editor chrisphelan layout editors sue marr; rachel man del copy editor ellen rubin busines~ managers julie isgro, larcy leavitt subscription editor sara simmons calendar ellen berger, maria manfredonia staff sharon camins, fran teitel, mindy broser CONCORDmNSIS is published every Thursday by the student . body of Union College, Carnegie HallrSchenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8th . Reynolds Ave.; Oneonta, NewYork138201 (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. ~ Remember: Elections for Editor-in..Chief of CONCORDIENSIS for· Fall & Winter Tenns will be held on Tuesday, May 20. Notices of candidacy whould be submitted to Lorraine Marra on or before ·Monday, May 12. All reporters, staff, and Editorial Board are eligible to vote. · • '1 ~-!4<,~.,U.-)):•oit, .. -· 11 ~' ~ ·~· . ..--.··~·J..,._~·?l.S.:\'\~~~~~~ • ....-.11<. .. ..: >f,,'t'IE'./t\'~ \\ • ....... ~~· Tot: med and peuj f,bOI (Sor Tl w He 25

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, May 8, 1980 Editorial A Loser.,s Lottery It appears that the prime issue capable of overcoming student apathy is, and has been, the ap- palling situation of on-campus housing. as well it should be. As calculated from figures released by the Residence Life office 1 see article , page 1 1, only 175 upperclass women will find on-campus housing, and spaces exist for only 226 upperclassmen. The figures do not take into consideration the thirty additional students housed in McKean and Smith co-ops and the independent slots in the fraternities and sororities. Steps currently being taken by the Residence Life office, however, will severely limit rooms occupied by fraternities housed in donns. This utter dearth of facilities is a shameful situation for the prestigious institution that Union purports to be. Not only are upperclass students forced to hve off campus or in the fraternity atmosphere which they had deliberately opted out of, but freshmen must begin their college experience in less than favorable living conditions. Though the administration annually pleads that they are \working on\ the problem, each year sees an outrageous number of freshmen in five-man suites, and next fall for the first time, five-woman suites. This fact is obviously not advertised to prospective students. It is a fact we cannot be proud of. Also, along the lines of freshmen housing-we strongly object to limiting West College to fres~en. This policy produces a two-fold disadvantage to students: upperclassmen lose the opportunity of living in a double on a co-ed floor; and freshmen tose the valuable advantage of the upperclassmen's experienc~information on courses, professors and soci~l life, and .their st~adyin~ influence. The opportunity of me~ting a widely varied group of people IS also forfeited. It IS unfair to leave these responsibilities to the only upperclassmen present-the two RA 's per floor. We resent the lack of action on this deplorable state. We believe that more facts on the actual situation should be made available to the students, both present and incoming, before it is too late for anything to be done about it. We strongly encourage st~dents to stand up for t.hell_\ rights for reasonable comfort, privacy, and an environment conducive to study. Unless actiOn IS taken, we are all losers in this year's lottery. Sometimes Pictures Speak 1.. <II - \' ro - a. E ... 0 z >- ..0 \' .E! 0 ..c: 0. As Well As Words. • • -;fi ..• ~~--'J. ,, To All of Those Involved in Bringing \FitzHugh Ludlow Day\ to Union: Thank you so much for creating a carnival of good times, friends, and traditions on ~ast Saturday! From the much needed coffee first thing in the morning, to the ''whoops-there-goes- my-lunch\ ride, the day was a celebration. We all needed to shake off winter and formally welcome spring back to U-Coll. In spite of the fact that a parachute-looking amoeba attempted to engulf the volleyball players midaft~moon, I ca~ th~ of no casualties. Thanlt you again, and here s hopmg the rest of the Springtime Celebrations will be as joyful! Sincerely, Connor Jane O'Brien To the Union College Conununity: I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of you for helping me honor my good friend, Squire Whipple. Your enthusiasm and spirit brought back fond memories ofthe \good old days.\ It is good to know that after all these years, we still are truly a \Union of People.\ Once again, thanks for your help. I can't wait until we can get together again ne?ct; year. Sincerely, FitzHugh Ludlow Class of 1856 ~ SiB Letters· Delta Gamma Thanks We would like to thank all thOse who watched and par~ ticipated in the Delta Gamma Olympics held this past Saturday. Thanks for making this event a successful one and entertaining for those involved. We would also like to congratulate our overall win- ning teams: 1st place~* The Mishaps; 2nd place-*The Southern Rockers; and 3rd place--The Zoocrew. Again, thanks to all! The Sisters and Pledges of Delta Gamma Calendar In The Works To the Campus Community: As the number of depart· ments and organizations r~quiring the use of on-campus facilities increases, it becomes obvious that a well-planned master calendar of events needs to be implemented. Throughout the yt'lar we struggle with scheduling con~ filets and try to minimize the competition among organizations and departments for \audiences.\ This can (easily, we hope) be avoided for next year if all concerned cooperate TIDS SPRING in scheduling major functions. In an effort to get a Master Calendar for next year off the ground, we are calling a meeting for May 28 in Strauss Lounge at 9 a.m. to assign specific dates and facilities for major events. At this meeting ·potential conflicts can be resolved well in advance. If you are planning an event for the 1980-'81 year, it would be to your benefit to attend the meeting to avoid these scheduling problems. You may (optional) submit a request in writing to the Central Scheduling Office prior to May 28 but no events for next year will be scheduled officially until the meeting. Of course. any events that have already been scheduled (prior to this meq1o) for next year will remain as is, and will not be subjectto change. After May 28, the Central Scheduling Office will accept scheduling requests on a \space-parking . availability'' and first come, . first serve basis. The Master Calendar will be printed in the Student Handb(}{)k &mlon and distributed the first week of Fall Term,196Q. So, if you would like publicity of your event, you must have it scheduled by the end of this term, and PREFERABLY at the May 28 meeting. If you have ;my questions regarding the Master Calendar, please feel free to call Diane Winkler, 6098, or Mike Andolina, 6061. Security Appreciation To the Editor: I wish to\ thank the many people that sent cards and those whose thoughts and prayers were with me. during my recent hospital stay. Sincerely, Sgt. Bill Paszeski. Security Beer·Rally Problems To the Concerned: For the past two years, I have participated in the Chi Psi Beer Rally, and have really enjoyed myself. This letter is not aimed at stopping the beer rally, but rather at initiating some · changes. Many teams wit~ nessed the near-collision of an oncoming car with a Beta drinker when he slipped off the . back of his team's car, right after. the ''shotgun.\ Perhaps Chi Psi brothers could direct cars not involved in the beer rally in another direction to avoid possible accidents. The next incident I witnessed · was much more severe. Members of my team and I left Barclay's before 11 p.m. to get an early start baek. As we rode down Route 50, a few beer rally cars passed us, geing over the speed limit. (This is, of course, to be expected.) The next beer rally car we saw was passing another ear over a double yellow line, around a cruve, at a high speed. If our driver hadn't swerved as quickly as he did, I have no doubt that all pasSengers in both· cars would have been killed or severely hurt. It is impossible to describe how clnse the other car was, and I am still amazed that we didn't crash. Due to the number of teams in the rally, and the number of those that came in Continued on page 3 cota.r .. • concor01en515~ editor-in-chief managing editor news editors features editors arts editor photo editors sports editor assistant sports editor women's sports editor layout editors copy editor busines~ managers subscription editor calendar staff donna creeley jim davis ed albro, ellen van dyke dan booth, paul grossrnaJ:I judichervenak norm pflaster, pam ryan richhope· bill curtin chris phelan sue marr, rachel man del ellen rubin julie isgro, larry Ieavitt sara simmons ellen berger, maria manfredonia sharon carnins, fran teitel, mindy broser CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8% Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Remember: Elections for Editor-in·Chief of CONCORDIENSIS for Fall & Winter Terms will be held on Tuesday, May 20. Notices of candidacy whould be submitted to Lorraine Marra on or before Monday, May 12. All reporters, staff, and Editorial Board are eligible to vote; ~ .. ,,.,.j j 1 I I i ' I II I l i I I : '! I I ; i ! I ' i l 1 ~ I I i ; I ! il 1 I I I 1 II !\ f -1 I i 1 ; I I i I ' I I ' I I l ' l '. i : I ' I i i 5 i ! I I ' . ~ i ; i I I I . I I l I .l ! i I I I . I ! ( I 1 :I I I i I· I. I I • : f 1 I : I : I l i : I 11 I I I I I I I . - Cont unde thin~ <lonly Soffii pers1 sugg com disq1 enjo that ash Ct SQffii the 1 rall) Tu t D< !No, noyi whe the ··di( mot pret it b<: Son stuc me( and peoJ I hOI !SOl rep wor oft< mal win ''Tl car1 nig WOl Tt w H 25

CONOORDIENSISI Mu_y 8, 1.980 - . Page 3 Union Days And N·ights: .. , .. }f4ilat:.;::.atu:l,w,th~d&tesllme;n, .. £¥ill .. . , . atte-stto just after the \lottery\ ae1rso1ttatlv . don t . hav~ .many is erunpleted. Union is in need of . . . Maybe a fee -for a new dorm. Because tile in~ C?tnln~ ,')!\ . tmqer . the . coming. f1:eshmen are assured · disqualtfymg ... tune? I g~te.~tly gqod' housing and be'Cause · jnifl-Y the tte~r r~l.lYt ~U.t~ !ear~ .i~ni9t~~~and sentoc.s have first ,hat ne.nt yea.rsomeonewoo the ptck: for ·lottery ·numbers., the as lu:eky as l was. . . . . only thing the sophomore class Cbi Psi bro-thers, please ta~e · · of itexf. year can do is to sit llaek ..... lJJ •... ,~n:P>:&r~b,J,~.\.Arumb$ .left rally bef\lre itjs too lat-e. behind, which often turn out to be dingy rf>oms scattered ·throughout campus. It is ob-- An almost ex-Union student · vious that th~re is a cost factor Night S#tudy. Nerds To the Editor: ' - Do you know what bugs me'? i No, not flies.) The tnost an- noying thing at this coUeRe that must be considered in construction of such a major facility. however, jt is still a concernthat warrants an airing of sentiments. Another area of concern is the bookstore. The current struc~ ture is extremely undersized and lacks some uf the . basic ne-eded students. l want to thank. yl)u and P.aul · Grossman·· for covering the u~oming Blak~ ~xhibi~ioo and Symposium in your last issue, ~nd for deS<!ribing. s-o well our inten,tiantt to · emphasize ·the range and versatility of Blake's achievemen~, and to- appeal to a -~g~t::\~· f . s~~Ji~~ and the general public. l am writing n<~w to make it clear that this ·large~ ambitious undertaking is the result of a great deal of work on the part of many peQple Wh() I feet9ught to have been named as co- organizers or ~hief supporters. At Union these peo.ple mclude, especially, Jean PeUetiere, Director of Schaffer Ubrary,. Virginia Bush and Barry Smith of the Arts Ruth Revised Intramural Special Events Ca lehdar Men Time 4:00 7:00 4:oo Date 5-9 5-13 5-22 5-31 Event Horseshoes Badminton Cycle Race Outdoor Track Meet 12 ~ 00 ~noon) Women 4:0() 7:00 7:0() 4:00 5-9 5-13 5-15 5-22 5~31 Horseshoes Badminton· Tetherball Cycle Race Outdoor Track Meet 12:,()0 (noon.) Co-Red (Mixed Doubles) 5-9 5-20 Horseshoes Foosball 4:00 '4:00 Schaffer Library - Spring Book Sale Sign for all events at the Intramural Office in Alumni Gym. Please sign up by fht! day before the competition. . . FitzHugh Ludlow T-sh,irts ·, Tuesday 1 May 131 9:30 a.m. - Wednesday, May 14, 4:30 p.rh. Hardcover 1 soc; paperback,. 2Sc. will be on sale this week. Stop in the Student Activities office or look for a table\ set up outside Carnegie. . . ..- .. Chi Psi presents its 8th Annual Charity Party Saturday May 10, 9 p.m. Costume theme: \The Roaring ~ . . I II 20's and Big Band Era f I OJme- relive on~ of America's wildest moments! See any lodger for tickets. Have your design on an ·Orientation 80's T-shirt! Design a pattern for the T-shirt and turn it into the Student A.ctivities · .office by Thurs. May 22. If selected win: Dinner for 2 at the Pub . Any questions, contact Dan Cuazzo, 372-0172, or any member of the, Orientation Committee. Intramural Dreams by JIM DAVIS It's the bottom of the third inning, and with two out, you step up to the plate and stroke a sir~g.Je up the middle that dFives in the tying and go-ahead nms. Rounding first base, you decide 10 try and stretch your hit into a couhlle. You and the ball arrive at s·econd ·· just about simultaneously. To evade the tag. you slide in, safely-and head first, to show your desire. Gym's floor-is probably to find the money that will finance the rest of the improvements en- visioned for the sports fields here. Such improvements will only add to the campus's at- tractiveness. And by being so readilv visible, thev will probably also add to its- appeal and drawing power. If a one-source gift, such as the nne that funded the con- struction of Achilles Rink, could Standing up, you dust yourself off, and find that the infield dirt is niixed with blood-yours. That's because you're playing intramural softball on Library Field. And the field, grassless, might as well be surfaced with concrete. ~ · Such inadequacies are fairly ~ conmion to intramural play here. To put it kindly, our ~ athletic facilties are marginal a.. and the ones used for in- }; tramurals are often downright 0 - embarrassing. o Part of this problem stems fi: from the limited size of Union's 100-acre campus. With the construction of Fox and Davidson dormitories in the mid-1960s, and that of Science and Engineering Center some five years later, there just isn't that much unused .spar~e left This crunch is especially felt when it comes time to find places to stage outdoor sporting evenfs-like intramural softball. lacrosse and ultimate frisbee in the spring. Realistically, this campus is the only place where these contests can take place. They can't be moved elsewhere. While reasonably close-by facilities do exist, it isn't reasonable to expect that most intramural events can take place at them. Most people will agree it's nearly impossible to expect two softball teams-20 players-to pick up and go, say, to the Girling Center, two miles away, for a game that will last about one hour, after whicb they'll have to make the trip back her.e. That likelihood is backed by fact. Such an arrangement was tried several years ago, with just such unworkable results: More games than not there had to be cancelled because one or both squads hadn't shown up. The space problem here this spring is worse than it has been because there are less fields available then there have been in recent years. That's because · the ongoing program to resurface and improve Union's sports field is at a virtual standstill. Garis Field, ad- jacent to Nott Street, has been redeyeloped and is off-limits to intramural play. That means the other fields--Daley, Alexander and Library-have to accommodate even more contests than before. Those who have played on ·.'them will probably agree that these sites> especially Library Field, are the worse for wear. Compared to Library, the other two are good, but that's hardly a fair basis for comparison. The solution to this inadequacy-and it eldsts for indoor facilities as well; just try playing basketball on Alumni 464 State St. we deliver be found, that would no doubt be the most ideal alternative and should therefore be actively solicited. The important thing, though, is to find the money-no matter the source. Of course, all the money and playing fields in the world won't guarantee a smoothly-run in- tramural program. For that to happen, the whole thing has to be regulated and organized. Union graduate Bill Carmody has the title of intramural coordinator, and it's hb job to schedule these leagues and events. But that's really all he can and should be e:-1pected to do. When. it comes down to the nuts-and-bolts of the com- petitions, it's up to the par- ticipants. And that's us. Our primary purpose in being here may not be to fulfill whatever dreams we may have of hitting .300 or scoring a hat trick, although intramurals do provide this opportllhity and are one of the stronger assets Union has to offer. As such, we owe it to our- selves to contribute to this outlet's smooth functioning. That means making good on the commitment entered into when entering an intramural corn- petition by showing up for the scheduled contests. More than that, this responsibility means caring for and returning equipment supplied by the intramural office. In the case of softball this spring, Carmody says the same amount of equipment was originally available as had been in prior years, but that most of it has disappeared. Additionally, any team that becomes involved in a corn- petition requiring referees should also be willing to supply these officials for an ap- propriate number of games, say one equal to the number it plays. Other improvements can probably be made and may already have been suggested. But the key point is that students are the ones who can make the intramural program work. Schenectady 374-1888

! I t l I I I l I •, I i I I ' 'l ! I ; I ' I i ' ., I 't i I I ! \ ,, ' l i I l t ! ' I ' . I ' I ' ' I { ' \ I I I f I I [ ! . I ' j ' I I I r i ! I i I l ', : I \ : I I I : I I I I ' l I ' ! I . II \ ' ' ! I I : ~ ' i I i i I i I I ' I i i :.1 ! I h I I I l ! , I l ,, ( J. I i I . : •' I ' L - ' f \ I; I ~ I l I ] ' CONCORDIENSIS, May 8, 1980 Page 3 ----:Letters---- Continued from page ?. · under the disqualifying time, I think that the above was not the tmiy incident of its kind. Something must be done, and I personally don't have many suggestions. Maybe a fee for coming in under the disqualifying time? I greatly enjoy the beer rally, but I· fear that next year someone won't be as lucky as I was. Chi Psi brothers, please take some precautionary actions in the rules and regulations of the rally before it's too late. An almost ex*Union student Night Study Nerds Tu the Editor: featuresasaprimescho<>lisour Co OJI\:g·anizers abilitY to c<>mfortably house all .. · • · · . - those living on campus. As the Art!' No ... med'' sophOmores can attest· to this v year, and the freshmen will T<> the Editor: attest to just after the \lottery\ is completed. Union is in need of I want to thank you and Paul a new dorm. Because the in~ Grnssman for covering the coming freshmen are assured upcoming Blake Exhibition and good housing and because Symposium in your last issue, juniors and seniors have first and for describing so well our pick for lottery numbers, the intentiona to emphasize the only thing the sophomore class range and versatility of Blake's of next year can do is to sit back achievement, and to appeal to a and grab the crumbs left broad audience that includes behind, which often turn out to students, teachers,~ scholars, be dingy rooms scattered and the general public. throughout campus. It is otr I am writing now to make it vious that there is a cost factor dear that this large, ambitious that must be considered in undertaking is the result of a construction of such a major great deal of work on the part of facility, however, it is still a many people who I feel !)Ught to concern that warrants an airing have been named as co- of sentiments. organiZers or chief supporters. Another area of concern is the At Union these people include, bookstore. The current struc- especially, Jean PeUetiere, Do you know what bugs me? ture is extremely undersized Director of Schaffer Library, f No, not flies. l The most an- and lacks some of the basic Virginia Bush and Barry Smith noying thing at this college is provisions needed by students. of the Arts Department, Ruth when you're trying to study in If by chance one should happen Anne Evans and Ellen Fladger the All-Night Study and some to need more than books, say of Schaffer Library, and Peter \diarrhea-face\ can't keep his milk or bread, one must venture Blankman, Jack Maranville, mouth from running. It gets !o A&P or the Chopper. Why not and Susan Milstrey of the pretty bothersome (and I know do what other schools, like Public Relations Office. At itbotherssome,ifnotall,ofusJ. Skidmore,havedoneandopena Skidmore .they include, Some of us nerds are trying to delHike store on campus. This especially, Jon Ramsey of the study so that we can go to facility would serve a far English Department, Alvin medical school or law school greater function than the Skipsna, Director of Scribner and get rich, and all these current Pub Pizza. Just Library. and Peter Baruzzi and people can do is talk, talk, talk imagine walking across campus Joan Siegfried of the Arts thored yet?), talk, talk, talk. on a Sunday evening and being Department. . Dr. Hans iSorry to be so repetitive, able to purchase some cheese Rozendaal of Schenectady, who repetitive, repetitive.) The and crackers, some milk, some is mentioned in your article as worst of it is that nine times out cold cuts, some soda or other the generous lender of many of ten, it is some huge guy who beverages. This would be a rare books for the exhibition, makes Lou Ferrigno look like a major step for Union, and one has also been a valuable con~ wimp. How the hell do ·you tell well worth considering. tributor to the design of this ''The Hulk\ to be quiet? tVery I urge the campus to consider conference. Without the carefully!!) Anyway, if the all the above mentioned im- cooperative efforts of all of night study was for talking they provements and air their these individuals~ our original would have named it the ''All preferences with the ad· dreamy plan to stage this c~ Night B.S.'' If you happen to be ministration and with the Board hosted event would never have one of those people who can't nf Trustees. been realized, Sincerely, his mouth shut, please James McCord twice before you say William Anth<Jny DiConza Department of anythi~:!~t~~~~:d if~~~h~a!'~ --~~~~;;~;_;;;,;~;. ••• .ijiJilliiiiiiliilaliiiiiiil. , bette are two little Wlllr®lwant yon. to. remember: UP! Schaffer Library - Spring Book Sale Tuesday, May 13, 9:30 a.m. - Wednesday, May 14, 4:30p.m. Hardcover, SOc; paperback, 25c. Revised Intramural Special Events Calendar Men Date Event Time 5·9 Horseshoes 4:00 5-13 Badminton 7:00 5·22 Cycle Race 4:00 5·31 Outdoor Track Meet 12:00 (noon) Women 5-9 Horseshoes 4:00 5-13 Badminton 7:00 5-15 Tetherball 7:00 5-22 Cycle Race 4:00 5-31 Outdoor Track Meet 12: 00 (noon) Co-Red (Mixed Doubles) 5-9 Horseshoes 4:00 5-20 Foosball 4:00 Sign for all events at the Intramural Offic~ i_n Alumni Gym. Please sign up by the day before the competlt1on. FitzHugh Ludlow T-shirts will be on sale -this week. Stop in the Student Activities office or look for a table set up outside Carnegie. Chi Psi presents its 8th Annual Have your design on an Orientation 80's T-shirt! Design a pattern for the T-shirt and turn it into the Student Activities office by Thurs. May 22. If selected win: Charity Party Saturday May 10, 9 p.m. Costume theme: \The Roaring 20's and Big Band Era\ t Come relive one of America's wildest moments! See any lodger for tickets. Dinner for 2 at the Pub Any questions, contact Dan Cuozzo, 372-0172, or any member of the Orientation Committee. Union Days And Nights: Intramural Dreams by JIM DAVIS It's the bottom of the third inning, aAd with twu out, you. step up to the plate and stroke a single up the middle that drives in the tying and go-ahead runs. Rounding first base, you decide to try and stretch your hit into a couble. You and the ball arrive at second just about simultaneously. To evade the tag. you slide in, safely-and head first, to show your desire. Standing up. you dust yourself off. and find that the infield dirt is mixed with blood-yours. That's because you're playing intramural softball on Library Field. And the field, grassless. might as well be surfaced with Gym's floor-is probably to find the money that will finance the rest of the improvements en- visioned for the sports fields here. Such improvements will only add to the campus's at- tractiveness. And by being su readilY visible, thev will probably also add to its. appeal and drawing power. If a one-source gift, such as the one that funded the cofl- struction of AchiHes Rink. could concrete. ~ Such inadequacies are fairly dr: common to intramural play here. To put it kindly, our ~ athletic facilties are marginal n. and the ones used for in- £j tramurals are often downright o .... embarrassing. o .r::. Part of this problem stems n. from the limited size of Union's 100-acre campus. With the construction of Fox and Davidson dormitories in the mid-1960s, and that of Science and Engineering Center some five years later, there just isn't that much unused spare left. This crunch is especially 'elt when it comes time to find places to stage outdoor sporting events-like intramural softball, lacrosse and ultimate frisbee in the spring. Realistically, this campus is the only place where these contests can take place. They can't be moved elsewhere. While reasonably close-by facilities do exist, it isn't reasonable to expect that most intramural events can take place at them. Most people will agree it's nearly impossible to expect two softball teams-20 players-to pick up and go, say, to the Girling Center, two miles away, for a game that will last about one hour, after which they'll have to make the trip back here. That likelihood is backed by fact. Such an arrangement was tried several years ago, with just such unworkable results: More games than not there had to be cancelled because one or both squads hadn't shown up. The space problem here this spring is worse than it has been because there are less fields available then there have been in recent years. That's because the ongoing program to resurface and improve Union's sports field is at a virtual standstill. Garis Field, ad- jacent to Nott Street, has been redeveloped and is off-limits to intramural play. That means the other fields--Daley, Alexander and Library-have to accommodate even more contests than before. Those who have played on ·them will probably agree that these sites, especially Library Field, are the worse for wear·. Compared to Library, ~he other two are good, but that's hardly a fair basis for comparison. The solution to this inadequacy-and it exists for indoor facilities as well; just try playing basketball on Alumni 464 State St. we deliver be found, that would no duubt be the most ideal alternative and should therefore be actively solicited. The important thing, though, is to find the money-no matter the source. Of course, all the money and playing fields in the world won't guarantee a smoothly-run in- tramural program. For that to happen, the whole thing has to be regulated and organized. Union graduate Bill Carmody has the title of intramural coordinator, and it's his job to schedule these leagues and events. But that's reallv all he can and should be expected to do. When it comes down to the nuts-and-bolts of the com· petitions, it's up to the par- ticipants. And that's us. Our primary purpose in being here may not be to fulfill whatever dreams we may have of hitting .300 or scoring a hat trick, although intramurals do provide this opportunity and are one of the stronger assets Union has to offer. As such, we owe it to our- selves to contribute to this outlet's smooth functioning. That means making good on the commitment entered into when entering an intramural com- petition by showing up for the scheduled contests. More than that, this responsibility means caring for and returning equipment supplied by the intramural office. In the case of softball this spring, Carmody says the same amount of equipment was originally available as had been in prior years, but that most of it has disappeared. Additionally, any team that becomes involved in a corn· petition requiring referees should also be willing to supply these officials for an ap· propriate number of games, say one equal to the nwnber it plays. Other improvements can probably be made and may already have been suggested. But the key point is that students are the ones who can make the intramural program work. Schenectady 374-1888

~age 4 OONOORDIENSIS, May 8, 1980 Roth:. Get Involved In Extra-Curricular Activi.tie.s . ' This article is a continuation of an interview with Dr. Roth. The first part appeared in last week's Concordiensis. Okay, I guess I hqve a bind here. That particular point has been presented to me before. I would certainly agree that we have trouble getting highly structured, formal activities going around here. That wasn't what I was referring to - I was talking about just informally sitting and talking about things. Indeed I probably won't respond very well to formality. In other words. if you say every third Friday afternoon, from four to six: we're going to get together and have student faculty discussions of \Modern Architecture and Reinforced Concrete,\ which is a perfectly valid subject, no, I am not going to show up on every third Friday from four to six, it's contrived. B11t on the other hand, if there is some free time at the end of a lunch hour when you don't really have to be back for half an hour, if there is a late afternoon period when I go to have a beer, or a salad or something like that, and there are students around and they are interested in what I think, yes, there is a great deal of that around here. I agree with you though, that the formally structured thing would probably be helpful. I don't happen to know about the specific intelleCtual Cabarets. I believe they g()t started the year I was on sabbatical. I do know that I was seldom invited to them or cons111ted about them, and I'm not expressing any anger, I just didn't get involved. On this topic - I was im- pressed with the number of faculty that attend seminars ... Thank you for mentioning that, because for example over the last several years in our depa)'trnent we have gone from a situation where we would have, if we were lucky, as many students as faculty to attend a seminar with an outside speaker to a point where we will \\ hav_e thirty-five, forty-five, fifty students show up and they will come early and they will tend to stay late. And then again you will find a smaller number of them going with a faculty member afterwards, and the speaker afterwards to talk. So, yes I'm in fav~r of that. You know. despite the comments about lack of such activity, and I've never sat down con- scientiously to do. this, it might be of interest, to takethe weekly calendar, since last September and get an average number of seminars, concerts, outside speakers, departmental ac- tivities, etc. You may be sur- prised to find out that there is a lot going on here at Union. Now there is one thing that does rather sadden me, if it is true. I think that we ought to deal with it. There are a certain number, a certain percentage -of students whose attitude is \of course I'm not going to sit around in the evening and talk about things with faculty members. That is · my own time, I want to use it my way.\ As if somehow in- volvement with faculty members·, ipso facto, involves- something you have to do as part of your formal studies. If that attitude is prevalent then I think it's deplorable. But ob- viously it's not among the students that I talk to, because they are spending the time with me. I hear faculty members complaining that there is little student-faculty inter'lction, and I say that I don't perceive this as a matter of fact, and my interactions are such that they keep me constantly busy ane pre-occupied. Then someone will say that, \Oh but you're an exception,\ well, if that is true then I have no data. But I doubt that I am the exception. I think Some people do it more easily than others. I find students exciting, and I find discussions fun and enjoy being with people who are interesting. So perhaps it is easier for me, and I find lots .of people who are fun, exciting, interesting and positive. You mentioned the term \Small college\ before. Are there any advantages to going to a large university as opposed to a small college? Is there anything lost by going to a small, liberal arts college such as Union? Of course, extreme diversity, and a higher degree of specialization. Let's face it, that mythical student that you mentioned who didn't want to study anything but biology, could benefit from a big university with forty-five Enjoy a relaxing dinner at The Pub every Fri. & Sat. nite, 5:00- 7:30 The Dutch Hollow Pub will be -offering the foUowing Special Dinner: A variety of Entrees including- Steaks, Seafood, Burgers & Hot Sandwiches. plus a pitcher of Beer or Soda or (J carafe of W!ne per pe~on Also, the Fabulous Sai(Jd & Bread Bar---. All Included in the 1 price pf the Entree DON'T MISS SEA-THRU THIS FRIDAY & SATURDAY NIGHTS faculty members in Biology rather than fifteen. A larger university I suppose would be aole to attract a larger number of people to a concert or a seminar. For example I don't think a school the size of Union would be able to attract the New York Philharmonic. We don't have the audience or the facilities for that type of ac- tivity. But on the other hand my particular bias is, that in terms of a liberal arts education, nothing is lost, that is necessary. This is an important thing, I don't like the classic categories of there are four years of undergraduate, there are four years of graduate, or what have you as if there were somehow magic lines. Some people mature at different levels. Even at Union you take some courses which would certainly be of graduate quality for another student at another institution, and some which are very obviously basic, primary courses. But I do think that the emphasis of a liberal arts education at a college is un- negotiable. If you look at the departments at Union College, I · don't find a weak department here. I don't find an inadequate curriculum, in any department here. I think we have a good self-selection process here. The student who wants that kind of specialization, that kind of intensity, is likely not to opt in favor of Union. Even if we are the second school for some, and that is not nearly as true as some people say, they don't opt for Union as a second choice, they opt for a different type of school. This question may seem obvious, but are ex- tracurricular activities part of a liberal arts education? · For me, absolutely~Again, I hesitate to sound corny, but the formal study for students at the undergraduate level, at that age group, are at best 50 percent of · what I consider the liberal education. If I had my way, for example in health professions, I would demand that everybody would be required to spend two years studying literature before they went into something like medicine, because the great authors dealt with emotions, human situations, in- terpretation. But you can't understand only from reading a piece of literature .. You can't understand Shakespeare or Tolstoy Without getting ex- perience by interacting with. your peers, and with professors in ~ocial situations, political situations, etc. And that is extracurricular. Now, they all need net be highly structured. I like to tell students· that I'm trying to prepare letters for that when they list extracurricular activities, they shouldn't list merely the formal activities, the committees, the fraternity, but list those things that turn you on, that you spend an ap- preciable amount of your time out of class doing what you feel contributes to your growth and development. To me it is ab. solutely essential I can't conceive of why anyone woUld want to come to a place like Union and do nothing but study. Do you feel that a student sltould get ··involved in extra- curricular activities no matter what? For example, a student may study all the time, and they may feel that tlley must study all the time to get the grades they want, and achie:ve what they want. Do you suggest they get involved in extra-curricular activities to the detriment of their grades? Obviously, they have to achieve some kind of balance. I do think that if a student is truly in a position where they can't survive at Union,. or they can't get what they want in the way of grades at Union, without full- time study, then they shoUldn't be here. Now, I'm not trying to put them down, and I'm not making a snob judgement, I am saying that I don't believe that the .individual students should put themselves in an institution, in a situation, or in a curriculum, whatever, that demands virtually all of their · waking hours, for merely study and maintenance. If they do, I think that they have picked the wrong school. Now, 'people will argue with me; they will say that great composers and great scientists, who were extremely turned on, by their studies did nothing but work on their respective projects. I wouldn't dispute that, just hope that we were all not ·like that. Now, using your other statement, you said to the detriment. I think sometimes it requires a little bit of an act of courage, or sometimes it requires an act of self value, of liking yourself. So, okay, I guess I'll settle for a \B\ in this c'ourse because there are some other things I want to do. Once in a while, I think it's not impossible~ to say, f'm going to get most of whaf I really want out of this place and get a \C\ out of it. I think w.e should see so~e of that. But I wouldn't say no, get yourself involved ·in extra-curricular activities and constantly find yourself on academic warning. I don't think B's and C's are detrimentaL Let \ine ask you your opinion. Don't you feel that extra-curricular activities are important? Well, obviously if ... What are you doing here as a Coacordiensis reporter? I believe extra-curricular activities are essential. Just in general'again, what do you see in the future for Union? A lot of people are worried about the future of • small, liberal arts colleges, such as ours. Do we have a good solid future? First, I think the picture looked dark for high quality liberal arts colleges shortly after I came here. Indeed one of the reasons I Wl:!S interested in getting into the collegiate un- dergraduate environm€nt was I believed passionately in this kind of education and I believed it was in trouble. In all cander though, I find a returning emphasis in the small circles in which I move, and I'm not talking about only academically, I found an in- creasing emphasis back on the high quality ofeducation. I go to prefessiohal meetings, and I just returned from one for pre- med advisors where a couple of sessions demonstrated dearly the dissatisfaction e{ 'thtJ health profession schools with what they refer to now as the quality of student, depth of knowledge, etc., I think that if anything - Americans do this you know - we swing back and forth and one typical American characteristic is, if something is good, then more of it must be better - therefore we decided to reverse direction, so we are reversing it all the way. I honestly believe, I am op- timistic at the moment, that we are a very good college, I have been very happy with the majority of students that I have h~d the privilege of interacting with,. but I believe the last two years have sei:m some very· exciting classes. Not that the other classes weren't good, but professionally this fall and last fall, they were great. They are vital and they are intellectual. I know that the faculty is dedicated, and capable. Sure the applicant pool is shrinking, but I think that the weaker colleges will show a decrease in applicants.' The applicant pool, is a qualitative, not a quan- titative matter. I think the applicant pool is there, and if anything, certain students who have not qualified in the ,past or thought about high quality education are now going to think about it again, because they are dissatisfied with the products of other educations. I believe that admissions to Union has in fact increased. Well, I know that has been true in a small amount, but you asked me what future I thoUgh Union has. I see a very strong future for Union College, doing exactly what we have always done, doing it hard, if possible, doing it better. I do think that our new liberal learning program is feasible as a return, but I don't like to use the worrl traditional because it is never a return, you go in cycles you don't go back to the same point, but you go back towards it. It'll help alot of people, and I do think it will help our ad- missions. People will say, ''How that's the kind of education that I want. •·• ]t' sa guess, maybe I'm too optimistic but, yes, I see a very good future for Union College. How can you not? Thank you. BJ Fror school a plan for U tit'ipat Camp this c< witht' done d think t part of and tl which virtue: namel cream l\1os Ollr p pajarn ·drive~: bay u: zonke• the e1 Disne: prove; which kids. ~ oae 01 '50~ sh Night' Sedm respet The adven pop a Ct>Ol'S4 with final, is to pajan feel l peopl~ a ha1 oppor of fb ThesE efotic exoti< warm aro11s fee lin an ol: secur ThE prep~ quite wind~ willl• glass. seen. lay <: altho: usdi< a mo stu de to ' Ka maki with will peop their a Tll papE Sch4 Foul a pa Chile Alba Te sper pain the' Loc~ bor:t fam for ado] live J~ alur Ass Par Sig1 pt·o. meE me I do01

! I ' \ OONOOR,DIENSIS, May 8, 1980 Page 5 .. Blue Skies Over Union by D. BOOTH· Frorn now until the end of the school year every weekend has Abstinence makes the heart grow fonder, or something like that. a planned activity of some sort for Union students to par- ticipate in, ie. the Clambake, Camp Union, etc. So this week ._ this column will concern itself ~ withtwo activities which can be ~ done during the week. I like to C: think thatthese.two activitie~ as part of our collective memories, ~ and that they are something z which we connect with the > virtues of the good ol' days, .c namely drive-in movies and ice ~ .cream sundaes. if Another activity which is pleasant after a hot day is to go out for an ice cream soda. I reconrmend Ferro Pharmacy across from the college on Nott St, Ferro's will be opening the soda fountain this weekend. The big advantage of Ferro's is that they will, upon request, serve the sodji in one of the large old \ fashioned soda glasses. Of course it is more fun to make your own sundae for two. My personal favorite is orange o sherbert topped with oranges .S and Grand Marnier. For spring, <C . fruity flavors ate best. Once a -c l fitting receptacle has been :0 , :chosen, fill it with ice cream. ~ I Then top with whip cream. The w. 1 spray cans make whip cream ~ easy to apply, not only on the o top, but even in layers :g throughout the sundae. Top- a.. pings, such as butterscetch or honey, are optional. They are quite good, except that they become quite stiCky on the skin. Fresh fruit is another way to make a sundae of this nature tasty. Strategically placed strawberries of lime slices send shivers of animal pleasure coursing through the veins. After a liberal coating of these, apply nuts and banana and dig Gown Co. On .Strike. . . in. · · Oh, and don't forget to add the Maraschino Cherry. Continued from page 1 $ all of whom had not joined the strike, were generally positive about their working conditions. \I don't think things are as bad as they (the strikers) say they are,\ said one woman who: had worked at the company. since 1977. She reported that C & L was. very liberal about vacations in non~peak periods and that they often rehired people who had quit to look for other work. \If they think you're worth a raise,they'll give you a raise,\ she said. Two veteran employees, with 43 and 24 years of experience, :Most of us ha:ve memories of our parents . bundling us into pajamas and taking us to a ·d'rive-in movie. They used to blly us popcorn, and, after we zonked out on the pillows, watch the end of some corny Walt Disney movie. I think this pr()ves that there is no law which says thatdrive .. ins are for kids. There are two in this area, o11.e on State St. and one on Rt. 50~ showing \Fooling Around - Nightwing\ and \1941 - The Seduction .of Joe Tynan'', respectively. Wintering In Gre~ce ' could not understand the strikers' complaints and reported that many of the strikers had worked for the company less than a year. While they disliked the ·fact that there were no employee benefits, they believed !unionization wouldn't result in any gain for workers. A minority of workers, they reported, actually struck and \some of them didn't know nothing about · it,\ one said. However, one of the women said that \since they (the strikers) went out,. conditions got better.\ The preparations for this adventure are minimal. First, pC>pa large bag of popcorn, then mol some orange crush to mix with rum at the movie. The final, and most important step, is to buy a pair of flannel pajamas. I say buy, because I feel fairly certain that most people do not wear pajamas as a habit. This is the perfect opportunity to discover the feel of flannel against bare skin. T~ese pajamas are by no means eLotic looking, nor do'they sport e&otic styles, yet the feel, the warmth of flannel is so .. arousing. Once discovered, this feeling may become as much of an obsession as Linus' flannel ·security blanket. The next step is the preparation of the car. It is quite important to wax the windshield. If it should rain this will let the droplets slide off the glass, and the movie cart'Btill be seen. Also take lots of pillows to Iay on. I also may add that although in high school most of usdidn 't go to the drive-in to see a movie. Hopefully, as college students, we are mature enough to wait for intermission. by KATIE .JONAS Many students decide to spend winter term in Greece in order to escape a dreary Schenectady winter. The term far surpasses this expectation by offering a relaxed, enjoyable and broadening learning ex• perience. The living accommodations couldn't be better. Students are housed, three to five per apartment, in fashionable Kolonaki, Athens. This area is roughly equivalent to the Park · Avenue section of New York City. The apartments are located about one mile from the Pan-Hellenic Union where classes are held four days a week. The weekend lasts from Friday afternoon until Tuesday morning, leaving a lot of free time to enjoy Athens and to travel. The three courses which are offered are Greek Literature in Translation, - Art and Archaeology, and a course dealing with aspects of con- temporary Greece called Greece Today. The benefits of KS Aids Parsons Kappa Sigma fr<~ternity is making an effort to get involved with community projects that will bring students and local people together. Included in theirservice projects have been a Thanksgiving Hunger Drive, paper recycling for the Schenectady Post-Stroke Foundation, and most recently. a painting project for Parsons Child and Family Center in Albany. Ten Kappa Sigma brothers spent a Saturday in April painting the interiors of two of the center'S five group homes. Located in residential neigh- I:Jorhoads, the homes provide a family-oriented environment for emotionally disturbed adolescents who arce unable to live with their families. Jake -Beauvais, a Union alumnus and Administrative Assistant to Programs at Parsons, contacted Kappa Sigma about . the pain~ing project following a chance meeting with Kappa Sigma members conducting a door•to- door fund drive. In the past, the painting was done by group home parents living in each house. Now the houses are staffed by several child care workers who rotate hours in each home and are unable to spend time on maintenance. Volunteer work for Parsons could become an annual project for the Union fraternity. Steve Marsh, ex-president of Kappa Sigma, feels that service projects \help make the campus more aware of what's going on in the community as well as expose the brothers to new people and different lifestyles . . . Close interaction between people is what makes a fraternity a growing thing.\ Parsons has a variety of programs serving more than · 300 children from Northeastern New York State. After Albany County, Schenectady County is the next largest referral source. Parsons Child and Family Center is a voluntary, non-profit child care agency which provides rehabilitation to emotionally disturbed and multiply handicapped children. At The ,Rat Thursday Night is Miller Nite (9-close) 2 . 12 oz. cans for $1 Yes, we do have Skellar Rat T-shirts in a limited edition So buy one now before they run out-all sizes sttijavallable studying abroad are most clearly realized in the art course. A majority of the classes take place at sites or in museums where the sculptures, vases, jewelry and architecture being studied is 'irctually in front of you. In conjunction with the art course, there is a four day class trip to Mycenae and Delphi, _ two historic ar- chaeological sites. The Greece Today course has had serious problems and drastic modifications are being considered. It has even been suggested that it should be !.\ejected in favor of a course in the Greekjanguage. There is no language requirement for the term in Greece, and the language barrier is a major difficulty, esJ?ecially since Greek operates on an alphabet different from that of English. Communication is not always easy, but trade-English is known by most shopkeepers. A knowledge of the numbers and courteous terms such as ''thank you\ (Euharisto) and \excuse me\ ( signome) is helpful. Athens itself is a modern, westernized city which offers plenty to see and do. Frequent visits can be made to Monastruaki, the large flea market, where bargaining techniques can be ex- perimented with. A lot of time can also be spent at tavernas which offer food, drinks, and sometimes music and dancing as well. Discos are popular all over Greece; even the smallest agricultural town has a discQ.. Athens also has the National Gardens, outdoor cafes, many museums, and of course, the Parthenon. On the weekends there are many places to travel. Historic Olympia and Sparta are both beautiful and easy to reach. In addition, the closer islands such as Ageina, Hydret and Spetes are only a short boat ride away. Greek islands are truly pic- turesque, pastoral and quaint. One of the most memorable times of this year's term in Greece was the four day ex- cursion to Crete. The Greek economy depends upon tourism which means both positive and negative things for travellers. Most towns will have at least a dozen shops which cater strictly to tourists. The .Greeks are a relatively poor people, but themoneytheyhave they tend to invest in western luxury items. Truly traditional Greek things are difficult to come across. Since it was the \off season\ prices were a lot lower, althoug-h nothing in Greece is as cheap as it use<l to be due to inflation. The Greek people, especially outside of Athens, are very open and hospitable. This -is another benefit of being in Greece in the off season. A new culture and a new lifestyle means an adjustment. The Greek lifestyle is slower paced than the American lifestyle. Ever:y afternoon, at one o'clock, the shops dose and d~n't reopen until five-th~I]1:Y or s1x. The Greek attitude toward Americqns, and the Greek male's attitude toward women, , (especially American women), take some getting used to. Without knowledge of the language or any connection with a specific Greek family, integration into the Greek culture is next to impossible. Living in the city, however, and keeping attuned to all op- portunities, it is possible to absorb much of the Greek culture and reallze a lot about America in the process. There is a lot that can be gained from spending Winter term ih Greece. At the very least, the term offers the experience of living in a foreign culture and, depending upon the effort one exerts, it can mean much more. .. ' IFC Involved in New Work / The Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC) has been at work in a variety of areas. It has just elected a new executive com- mittee wnich consists of Anthony Klockenbrink (Sigma Chi) as President, Seth Men· delowitz (Phi Gamma Delta) as Vice~ President, Chip Symington (Beta Theta Pi) as Treasurer, and is in the process of choosing a. Secretary. On Thursday, May 1, the IFC had a meeting in order to begin reviewing an ad hoc committee appraisal of , the Fraternities • and Sororities and possible revisions were discussed. The Council is also considering an IFC weekend for next year's freshmen. The weekend would possibly include such ,events as a picnic and a beer run in which freshmen involved would have a beer at each fraternity and sorority house. Also, the IFC Conduct Committee, headed ' by Assistant Dean of Students, Mike Andolina, has been active in handling a hazing charge against one of the houses on campus . Interested in going to the Big Apple after the Transit 'Strike? Interested in going to the United Nations? Interested in talking with a Soviet Delegate? , Well, you're in luck! The International Relations Club will be going to the United Nations in New York City May 16th. The all-day trip will include a tour of the United Nations, briefings on world issues by the U.N. staff, a ·Chance to sit in on U.N. meetings (perhaps even the Security Council) and a special briefing by Mr. Bidny, a delegate of the Soviet Embassy to the U.N. You never know, we might even .get to see the infamous 'Afghanit.m Invasion!' The cost for all of this is only $5, including transportation. Want to know more? Come. to a special meeting, Wed- nesday, May 14at9:30 p.m. in the 3rd floor conference room Carnegie Hall (across from WRUC). Hope to see you SIGMA CHI SPRING FEVER 2th ............. CLAMBAKE SAT, May 17th 12-fJPM PARrY 10-? AM $6.00 AT J)()(}R OD~NDOOR 136 Jay 346-2719 Downtown Schenectady

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, May 8) 1980 President Dave O'Connor My name is Dave O'Connor, and I would like to take this opportunity to announce my candidacy for President of the Student Government Association.· The position .of President will be -challenging next year with new College and Student Governance structures. Through my two years of in- volvement in student govern- ment ! as a Sophomore Class Representative with Committee on Committees membership, and Vice President with ent chairmanship of CaC), I believe I possess the proper base of experience · to deal wi:th students, faculty, and ad- ministrators. This will be im- portant when one considers: student responsibility· for management of approximately $200;000 a year in Student Activities fees, a substantial facHlty interest in abolishing the pass-fail system, the student body President's membership on the College President's consultation group, and the list is longer. Doing the job correctly will require much work f.rom many .people, but I believe e.xperi.ence and the presidential leadership role are the ,keys for improving student input and involvement in the College. . • ections, • • I am optimistic about the possibilities for next ~ear and hope to talk to ~many of you while campaigning in the ne:rt few weeks. Remember to vote on May 13, and I would ap- preciate your support. Thank you. ·..;~::~ft¢\' .,, . ' . ....... . ~ S,enior Representatives f Richard Strauss After having been at Union three yeats and participating in many of the programs it lilas to offer, including clubs, sports, and committees, I feel that the representation 'of a class in the decision making process is vital to its gr;owth. The political proble:rn,s of 1977- 1978 at Union left me, and many of· my classmates, with a bad feeling about student govern- ment here. In retrospect though, it is an excellent example ·of the effectiveness of David :Handler ~he students at this schGol. I would be pleased and pPoud to represent the Class .of 1981 as Seni0r Class Representative. Vice President, Administration I believe the job of a student representative is to convey the feelings of his or her classmates totheStudent Forum. HowEver; I feel that members of the student government have often lost sight of this, and have been more concerned with thefr own personal goals, rather than with the welfare of the student body. liz Weisser Hi. I'm Liz and I am running for Vice President of Vernon Wetmore Within the past year, the All- College Governance System and o,.ur own Student Govern- ment have undergone many changes. It is important that the Vice President of Administration be aware of these changes and be familiar with them to help insure a smooth transition. As a Junior Class Representative this year, I was able to take an active part in the drafting of both new systems and am aware of the Administration. My experiences as an R.A. in West and as Co-Chairperson of the Speakers Forum, this year, have given me valuable insights into our college's ad- ministration, and how we as students can. deal with the problems that are unique to Union and that all colleges face: housing shortages, need of improved athletic facilities, and student unity. Those.students who we elect to represent the student body should be conscientious, reliable, and hard-working. I have proven myself of having _potential problems that the changeovers may bring. The Vice President should also be· familiar with what is expected these· qualities and capable of holding leadership positions. As · Chairperson of the Committee on Committees, I will take the time and effort necessary to select the most responsible person to spend our monies, collected through student tax~ - which we, as students, can enjoy. There i~ little I can say in such a limited space. I will try to get around and meet as many of you as possible. If you have any questions, stop me on campus or drop by my room. Get involved in the elections and don't forget to vote on Tuesday, May 13. from the various groups and committees that will come before the Committee on Committees. Correct deCisions must be made in respect to appropriate constitutions from student activities groups and membership appointments for . Student Forum committees. Next year, we will need ex- perience in Student G:ov,ern- ment, and r feel my in- volvement in Student Forum has given me the experience to perform the various duties of the Vice President. Thank you for your attention, and I would appreciate your support. Mandy Phillips My name is Mandy Phillips and I'm running for the position of Senior Representative. I think I'm fully qualified to do the job; I've been on the Committee on Committees and Speaker's Forum and am in'\ volved with Political Forum and Amnesty International. In each case, I've shown that I'm responsible and willing to do something for this campus. I feel very strongly that all Union students, especially seniors, can and should be involved in what's happening hel'e. The/ new governance system and Constitution is a positive step toward a new role for Student Forum in the coming ~ears, and Sherry Laitman I have become ~quainted with students from various groups and activities. If I am elected, I will do my best to represent the ideas and opinions of my classmates and win work hard to fulfill all the responsi'bilities of the position. with the right people, sh<mld make the Farum a more cohesive and responsive group. Seniors have the best chanee of getting things done ~ it's yoar last year, and I think it shc.mld. be a worthy and remembered one. I would appreciate your vote in the upcoming elections. Vice President, Finance After spending three years at Union, my attachment to Union has grown considerably. Because of my true concern for the welfare of those attending our college ~nd Union as a whole, I have decided to run for Senior Representative. \ :).)'. \ t:· James A. Fisher The major responsibility of the Vice-President of Finance is to oversee the operations of the Student Finance Committee. Its aim is to insure efficient and effective allocation of student activity fees. In the past, problems basically stemmed from a communication gap. At times, the Finance Committee isolated itself from the sutdent body and was often not a ware of its concerns and priorities. This lack of communication also led to the inefficient administration of the Student Activity funds. Junior Trustee Marla Band Hi! I'm Marla Band, first woman ever to run for the position of Union's Junior Trustee. As usual, most of the problems plaguing Union stem from a lack of funds. With the official launching of the \Campaign for Union,\ though, hopefully some of them will be alleviated. In taking a random sampling of Union students, I found that the issues most concerning them deal in bUilding up the Arts Department, improving the dilapidated appearance of the campus (both inside as well as outside of the buildings), and a desire to upgrade the women's athletic program. In· addition, Union should continue to look into and implement ways of cutting back on energy · con- swnption. In comparison with other schools of Union's stature, the amount of student aid at Union is overwhelmingly deficient. I believe that Union should in- crease its aid to students through more scholarships. loans, and grants. Due to the word limit placed upon me, I had to choose bet- weet~ fully developing one issue Often groups were not budgeted correctly, and some went into deficit spending without having their budgets frozen. My intention in writing this article is not tci~bore you with all my activities~ However, I do feel that by being involved with intramurals, especially volleyball and softball, Social Committe-e and various ac- tivities, I have gotten to know Havjng assumed the duties of Co-Chairman of the Student Finance Committee this spring, I have begun to bridge the gap between the Finance Com- mittee and the student body: I have the most experience dealing with the Finance L..----------------------~­ Committee's operations and many individuals. Thro11gb encounters with fellow studeJJ.ts, I have learned what the nee~ds of the student body are, and I will serve to the best of my ability. problems, and therefore believe I am best qualified to lead . a smooth transition into/the fall. or briefly touching upon several. ·I chose the latter because there is more than one issue which faces the Board of Trustees. Please feel free to contact-me at either Box No. 864, or at 370- 6908. Will lloyd One hundred-fifty is certainly not a sufficient number of words to discuss the many respon- sibilities which the position of Student Trustee entails. Before voting, the student body should be aware of the two prime responsibilities of the Student Trustee: serving on the Union College Board of Trustees and sitting on the Stugent Forum. To work effectively on both bodies, • the Student Trustee should·possess knowledge of the bodies' method of operation. He-She should be able to communicate clearly and concisely to the Board and the Forum the sentiment of the student body. Most importantly, the individual holding the office of Student Tr.ustee must be d~d~cated to Union College as a wno1e. :My · qualifications speak for themselves, as I have bee11 Sophomore Representative ancl served on numerous C()m- mittees. I have proven rny ability during the past year, and I will contipue to demonstrate my de.dication to Union in the years to come. My Ayles we for Represe }983. I needfor of ·corr result student Union these el necessa candida\ to castil importa that the does. It activiti College minus ~ Their By n: am no· perfect feel thl averagt am elec job to I would 1 encour; Quite difficul most q1 sophor tative. very ir .probler class, effecth Stud en to becc has be work' researt for Un volverr The • guarar best to Class ment, apprec you. Wil Will for stt believ respec Truste buildil He n politic gover1 PolyE that ol As DiCon on tt Presic Bill in the 'right' entire dama. Con Union led B

' OONCORDIENSIS, May BJ 1980 Page 7 an ... · ' ates tatements Sophomore Representatives Cheryl Aylesworth My name is Cheryl Aylesworth, and I am running for your Sophomore Representative of the Class of 1-983. I feel there is a critical need for a more effective means of ·comrnWlication that will result in a (ully informed student body. My previous experience at the various levels of student government better qualifies me to act as a liason betweeR our class and the Student Forum. It is essential that your views be heard, and I intend to voice them to the best of my ability.· Mitchell Chess Union students should take these elections seriously. It is necessary _to look at eac-h candidate's views closely prior to casting a ballot. Thus, it is important to realize what it is that the Student Formn actually does. It is involved with student activities and affairs, not College policies, such as plus- minus grading. The immediate concern ofthe Forum should be improving intra\coUege - communications. Many events go unnoticed because of the presentmeam~ of advertising. This, and other issues, should be given the attention they demand. If elected, I will try to see that they receive tne consideration deserved. If a·ny questions ari~e, please feel free to contact me at either 370-6544 or Box 1334. David K. Blakelock- By running for this office, I am not claiming to be_ the perfect student. However, I do feel that I can represent the average student in our class. If I am elected, I will try to do this job to the best of my. ab~lity. I would like to take this tnne to encourage all sophomores to David Wo II in Quite understandably, it is difficult to judge who is the most qualified for the position of sophomore Class Represen- tative. As a candidate, I feel it is very impQrtant to listen to the .problems and opinions of our class, and to be actively and effectively represented in the Student Forum. My willingness to become involved on campus has been demonstrated by my work with Concordiensis, my research on the asb~stos issue for Union Views, and my in- volvement on the Debate Team. The only promise I can guarantee is that I will do my best to represent the Sophomore Class in our student govern- ment, and I would very much appreciate your vote. Thank you. vote on Tuesday, May 13, and Thursday, May 15. This is the only way to get people who are representative cof our class. If you do not go out and vote then you have. no right to complain when you feel something is wrong. Peter Schlessel As Sophomore Represen- tative, I feel capable of providing input to the Student Forum with the hope of im- proving student life at Union. Actively involved as a fresh- man, I have been elected Secretary of the Political Foum and selected as an Orientation Advisor. My greatest concern at this time is the allocation of our tuition money and why it is not being used to improve such things as the intramural programs and the student club funds. Furthermore, as your representative, I will inforin you of campus issues at all times. I have a strong desire to underta~ this responsibility and firmly believe that I can- and will-do the job. Junior Trustee WilHam DiConza William DiConza is running for student Trustee because he believes that a strong and respected voice on the Board of Tmstees is a necessary part of building abetter Union College. He may be a stranger to politics, but he is no stranger to government. As President of Poly Prep, he resolved conflicts that others were afraid to touch. As a Union Freshman, Bill DiConza was appointed to serve on then ·President Auburn's Presidential Advisory Board. Rill DiConza was a key leader • inthefight to strip housing of its 'right' to geherally ·fine an entire floor or house for the damage done by a few. Continued discourtesy shown Union students by Ellis :Sospital led Bill DiConza to bring the matter to the attention of the- entire Union community and make Ellis respond to the datms,. Ellis admitted a lack of communication on their part and apologized for its previous treatment toward Union. \I have always fought a respected fight for what shOuld be, and will ·serve well as our representative to the Board of Trustees.'' Junior Representatives Marla Shore Many people run for an office simply for the title and do not · work. This is not my intention at all. I am very interested in becoming involved in student government. As Junior Class Representative, I will use what I h~ve learned from my ex- perience from serving on various committees, such as ( ....£ .!...:., With the recent ratification of · the new Student Government Association constitution, the Junior Representative position involves responsibilities that .....,;..r-,- Committee on Committees, to do the best job I possibly cal). Every college has its problems, but these problems can only try to be solved by fleople who are conscientious, hard-working, dedicated, and willing to commit themselves. I believe I am one of these people and would like to be given the op- portunity by becoming Junior Class Representative for next Rich Tanenbaum have never been entrusted to a class representative before. For this reason, it is necessary for the individual to have a clear understanding of the changes made. Having lived with one of our Sophomore Representatives during this year of change, I have learned a great deal about our new system. I have worked within the system, as a member of the Concert Committee, and I am aware of the limitations and expectations of student government. I hope you will vote for n;1e {)n May 13. Sophomore Representatives Ben Levitan.. I feel I am the best candidate for Sophomore Class Representat'ive because I am the only candidate who is presently on the Student Forum, therefore I have the experience necessary. As Secretary, I have shown competence and ability. I was responsible for the addition of freshmen onto the Formn next year. Next year, I will try to make the Forum more accessible by changing the location of meetings. I will also try to maintain an open door policy for continual communication between . myself and the sophomore class. Please vote Ben Levitan. Thank you. Adam Brodsky With your vote, I would become Sophomore Clas~ Represen- tative. But what would you get out of it? I know you would get a representative that will do not just an adequate job but a good one. I am not going to sweep you off vour ·feet with well-worded promises. Opinions and situations change over the summer. When we return in the fall, you would tell.me what to do. Your priorities count and not mine. I would be your representative. · Julie Del Deo The new system of gover- nance offers more direct representation to the students. However, representation is only possible if the elected students make an effort to reach their class. As your Sophomore Class Representative, I would be polling your views and bringing them with me tnto the meetings. · Duncan ... My · name is Duncan Mackenzie, and I am running for Sophomore Representative. A great part of the college experience is the personal decisiotrs we make as both an individual and a class member. For many, this is the first time we have been able to choose I feel my role as your representative would be to keep you aware of what issues are at hand. Change in the governance indicates your want for a fresh start. Finding new ideas and expressing them clearly to the committee is something of which I would ·be capable. Mackenzie what we will do with ourselves, as an individual, and who we wish to represent us. As a concerned class member, I am interested in keeping these decisions visible. and effectiye. Your support on May 13 will be greatly appreciated. Mic:hael \Ike\ Kaplowitz Let 1\l.e cut through all the spare you the history of my high B.S. and come right to the _point. school accolades. One idea of You've probably heard and mine is the expansion of read plenty of promises before campuswide activities. This and like usual they have not would include an Octoberfest, been fulfilled. I can't promise as well as a full-fledged Winter you anything and I'm not about _ Carnival. Education is twofolg: to. I'm sure you've been reading classroom and extracurricular about the other candidates' activities. Help me make Union qua-lifications. They're work for you. probably very impressive. I'll '\··' .~~t>..~~. .. :;:, year. Please vote on May 13. Thank you. Weldon Turner My desire to run for Junior Representative stems from my affinity for Union College. My accomplishments and ac- colades to the present have been athletic, as well as fraternal. I've lettered in Varsity Football fot two years and I'm an active brother of Chi Psi. I feel, as Junior Representative, I can best exemplify my abilities in the social, as well as academic environment. Gary Chadick I am a candidate for Sophomore Class Represen- tative on the Student Govern- ment Association. I would not seek this office unless I were . sure I could do a good job. To do the job correctly, one must-1) solicit opinions from members of the class; 2) be accessible for problems and suggestions from members of the class; and 3) speak one's mind at meetings in his constituents' interests. I will perform these responsibilities with enthusiasm and to the best of my ability. First, however, I need your support. Remember to vote on May 13. Thank you. Stephen Bodmer As you know, the position of Sophomore Representative to the Student Forum should be filled by the person who can best represent next year's sophomore class. I feel I have this ability and if given the chance to pr-eve this, I will represent you faithfully. If you have any suggestions, I en- courage you to bring them to the attention of your Sophomore Representative . Mark Mogul I've d.ecided to run for Sophomore Representative for I honestly feel that I can and will actively represent our class in the government and voice your opinions and suggestions to my fellow Forum members. I have held similar positions in high school, so this job is noi a new one to me. A truly represen- tative student government can be so only if its members take their job seriously, and pass legislation in the best interests of the most students. If elected, you can rest assured that I will take my job seriously, work well with my fellow Forum members, and represent you to the fullest of my potential.

Page 8 GONCORDIENSIS, May 8, 1980 ture Caffe. Lena Here Joe Millett and Bar:nbi Schlauch in '6 Rms Riv Vu' A group of America's frnest folk musicians will gather C:Jt Pre Uor's Theatre, Schenec- tady, on May 18, to pay tribute to one of the Capital District's best-known institutions. To celebrate a milestone in the life of her Saratoga Springs cof- feehouse, Lena Spencer has invited some of her friends to perform at the Caffe Lena Twentieth Anniversary Music Festival. Among those who will appear are Robin and Linda Wil'liarns, Arlo Guthrie, David Bromberg, Kate and Anna McGarrigle, Bill Sta:ines, Margaret MacArthur and family, and Dave Van Ronk . Play Rerieu·: .. '6 Rms Riv byJIMDAVIS With the annual independent on-campus rooms lottery, students here once again have had to turn their thoughts to the living arrangements they'll make for the upcoming academic year. This being the case, the play currently being presented at the Nott Memorial, \6 Rms Riv Vu,\ is particularly timely. It's a comedy, about apart- ment-hunting in New York City. And though many College students have enough housing problems of their own, the difficulti~s presented in this production nonetheless provide an amusing escape from the day-to-day turn of events here. Essentially, \6 Rms\ is a two- character show. These two figures are Anne Miller and Paul Friedman, both young married persons scouting out a six-room flat on New York City's Riverside Drive. In the Union production, these roles are filled by freshman Bambi Schlauch and Joe Millett, a 1977 College graduate who's now a member of the arts department, respectively. Though there's little action- the entire play is set inside the apartment--these two roles remain demanding. And both players do an admirable job in filling them. They immerse themselves in their respective persona, and lend the audience to believe they're watching an actual encounter, instead of a pre•staged production. This interaction certainly is the play's highlight. But other characters' performances are also worth mentioning. Of special note are those given by freslunen Chris Gaynor and Kate Mosher in relatively small, but still effective, character roles. Gaynor plays the superin- tendent of the building where the apartment is located, and Mosher plays a pushy apart- ment tenant, who has a Doberman Pincher named Trixie and \doesn't want to get involved\ with the apartment hunters. Their appearances add sparkle to the whole production. And it's just this extra flair that the second act of this two-act affair seemed to lack, at least last Tuesday, its opening night. After a somewhat slow start, the barbed exchanges between Millett and Schlauch held the audience's interest through most of the first act, as did the character aevelopment that accompanied it. But these one-liners weren't enough by themselves to carry the second act. This reviewer ·got the feeling that the whole thing could have ended about a half-hour earlier with little Mitch's Maze Cy \ MITCHELL CHESS Vu'·- having been lost. Still, though,. director Stephan Kilgore deserves to be corn- mended· on a good job with a potentially difficult entity: For the most part, he did a good job in maintaining the play's pace, in the virtual absence of visible action. Also to be comm~nded are the folks who were involved with the play's technical production. Though the set and lighting were both simple-little more than a single apartment room- their design was both believable and visually pleasing. With a young cast-six of eight characters are freshmen-this company has staged a com- mendable, professional show. That means good things in the future for Union arts , en- thusiasts, as these yearlings-- especially Bambi Schlauch-- continue to develop. Their talents will be on display in \6 Rms\ with per- formances tonight, tomorrow and Saturday night,. all beginning in the N ott Memorial's theater-in-the- round at 8 p.m. The caffe was created by Spencer as a result of the folk- music revival in the late fifties. Then living in Boston, she first heard folk music among students affiliated with the Bostan Museum of Fine· Arts. Soon she and her husban~ began a search for a coffeehouse site and settled upon Saratoga Springs, where the first per- formance was held -on May 21, 1960, in the 45 Phila Street building which has ever since been a step on the way for many performers. Besides those appearing at the Festival, such talented artists as Michael Cooney, Don McLean, Tom Paxton, Loudon Wainwright III, Bob Dylan, and Hedy West have been featured at the caffe. As it approaches twenty years of active life, it is widely recognized as a stage which provides the best in musical entertainment, and an audience for the young, talented musician. Arlo Guthrie began his career in coffeehouses, including the Caffe Lena; where he first appeared in 1966. Appearing at . Carnegie Hall in the same year as part of Oscar Brand's \Folksong Festival,\ he per- formed the epic song, \Alice's Restaurant.\ At present, he tours primarily with a band, \Shenandoah playing his own Caffe Lena to appear at Proctor's Theater on May 18. . Coming Soon: *Continuous Live Bands 12--6 Sponsored by WRUC *Night Concert- Jerry Jeff Walker Sponsored by Social Committee 1c Rollerskating 12 • 5 *FOOD 1cFREE BEER May 24 - Saturday - All Day Camp U nlon · 1980 distinctive brand of folk rock. Kate and Anna McGarrigle perferm .a wide variety of traditional, contemporary and original songs from the United States and Canada. Originally from Montreal, .both sisters are inventive snngwriters whose material has been recorded by Maria Muldaur, Linda Ron- stadt, Loudon Wainwright III and Mckendree Spring. Kate plays piano, guitar, banje, concertina and fiddle. They bring to our area a delightful repertoire of French\Canadian songs. Bill Staines, the· left-handed guitar pi:c)\er from B_oston, ·is among the most seasoned performers in the fold field. He plays folk, popular and country tunes backed up by his tight guitar playing. Dave Van Ro.nk almost singlehandedly introduced rural blues to the folk movement. Before the \rediscovery\ of such bluesmen as Mississippi John Hurt and Skip James, Van Ronk was~performing their songs. A strong contrast to the unusual interpretations and original songs of most con- temporary folk musicians, Margaret MacArthur is an interpreter of the music of old- time Vermont. With her family, she plays the ancient ballads and songs, sorne brought from the British Isles, which she learned from the old folks who had heard them as children. David Bromberg began studying guitar at 13, but en- tered Columbia intent on a career as a musicologist. He was drawn to the flourishing Greenwich Village coffeehouse scene, leaving college· in order to devote himself full-time to his music. His extraordinary guitar-picking style and ex- ceptional stylistic . range brought him into demand as a back-up artist for recordings. In 1970 he decided to become a soloist, performing his own and traditional American music. His work is a remarkable synthesis of blues, country, . jazz, folk and classical. Robin and Linda Williams, who will act as masters of ceremonies, are contemporary country singers from Virginia. Robin plays guitar and mouth harp; Linda performs on guitar, banjo, and dulcimer. Their vocal arrangements are strong with especially unique har- monies. Tickets for this festival of great performances are priced at six dollars and will be available at Proctor's Theater, 432 State Street. Schenectady; at Saratoga Smmd; at Just a Song in Albany .and Saratoga Springs; and at the Caffe itself, 45 Phila Street, Saratoga Springs. Themusic will begin at 1:00 p.m. and continue into the evening. For further in- formation call the Caffe Lena in Saratoga Springs. (llllll) \!J B V ~ WRUC TENTATIVE ALBUM AT TEN Monday: Grateful Dead, \Go to Heaven\ • Tuesday: Pete Townshend, \Empty Glass\ Wedhesday: Average White Band, 11 Shine\ Thursday: Blood, Sweat, and Tears, \Nuclear BJues\ Saturday: A rare, unreleased concert performance and interview with David Bowie-. CUI Co byJl Approb those be Cabaret. campus c outlet frOJ many of preciate t hours in! student entire Ca to Cabar• essential sit back • often forg the seem possible. Under BetsyMo SusanGr: Thursday 11:00 p.rr the term. responsil: list of ho~ auditions them am the shoVI under th Marks ar care of prepara1 peanuts, The peo kitchen • cruCial t' waiters • jobs enta and hard Betsy Cabaret purpose i entertain communi to Union 1 a nice br' The fact 1 EXHIBf May with Rt AlumnaE ex:hibitio will beh Theexbi May 16 May 17 further 2344 or ~ FAffi May 1 will be Washing with a r: This ye~ sterfest musicia puppete« people, several person ticipatin asked to Arts OfJ Avenue, number FILM May Loring ' FlVE : musical The film p.m. ir Librar) formati• at 449-3: 9317 (ho May . will be~ 6 on t Empire portrait the arti eluding and stEJ inform-a

l , s j r OONOORDIENSIS, May 8, 1980 Page 9 culture ~ ~ ~ Cabaret : Behind T:he Scenes by JUDI CHERVENAK Approb~tion must be given to those behind the scenes of Cabaret. Although we, the campus community, enjoy this outlet from our arduous studies, many of us do not really ap- preciate the hard work and long hours inherent in a weekly, student run nightclub. The entire Cabaret crew is devoted to Cabaret and each person is essential to its delivery. As we sit back enjoying the show, we often forget those people behind the scenes that make Cabaret possible. Under the coordination o£ Betsy Modest and her assistant, Susan Gray, Cabaret runs every Thursday night at 9:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m .. , eight weeks out of the term. It is the coordinator's responsibility to make up the list of hosts and hostesses, bola auditions and then Set a date for them and find M.C.'s to host the show. The kitchen crew, under the leadership of Steve Marks and Ian MacBeth, takes care of the ordering and preparation of the wine, peanuts, and cheese . served. The people working in the kitchen during the. show are cruCial to Cabaret as are the waiters and waitresses. Both jobs entai~ much responsibility and hard work. Betsy Modest believes in Cabaret and believes that its pl\rpose is \to provide weekly entertainment for the campus community. Cabaret is unique to Union College and it provides a nice break during the week.\ The fact that Cabaret is student run makes it even more .special. \It is importantto have student talent and to have students performing ameng their peers.\ This student interaction enhances not only the au,dience's enjoyment but also that of the performers. The viewpoint of several performers is reflected in the thought of popular M.C. Bill DiConza, \I enjoy making people laugh and sharing a good Ume with them.\ Frequent Cabaret singer Torn Farrell said, ''I do it because I enjoy performing and enjoy the· fact that other people enjoy hearing me.\ Relaxing at Cabaret, we cannot fathom the protllerns resolved before the show c'ould run smoothly. These problems include such things as last minute act cancellations and their substitutions. One of the biggest problems that Cabaret has encountered was the threat of being closed down by the Board ef Health. Students overcame this problem by going into the kitchen and cleaning it up so that it passed inspection. · Thurs. May 8th lst act: Comedian- Juggler Adam Frey 2nd act: Male Vocalist, Mike Zanta Shows at '9 & 11 p.m. Tickets on sale in Carnegie at 8 p.m. on Thursday. Last chance to audition for Gong Show · call Such student enthusiasm is emphasized by Betsy Modest. \People Who work for Cabaret believe in Cabaret and don't want it to close. That is why they volunteer so much of their time for it. Despite all of the problems that go in, there is satisfaction in seeing the audience enjoying the show.\ Betsy Modest and the entire crew are trying to get Cabaret back on its feet, starting with increased publicity, different lighting, better conditions of the Cabaret room and more of a ~ variety of acts in the show. The , . .,. G(mg Show on May 22, 1980 should reflect these new ex- pectations for Cabaret. Betsy Modesr, coorarnaTor ot Laoare~ Art Exhibition A Success The photography club held a contest and exhibition on Saturday of Parents Weekend. Many ' interesting photographs were submitted by students and were exhibited in the N ott Memorial. The winners of the contest were Hejdi Beth Roets, Jon Green, Steve Geller, Andy Yuan, Phil Heubner and Dan Rosenthal. The photography club would like to give sincere thanks to Steve Berns of Berns Camera Stores Inc. for donating prizes for the contest. We v. ou · · also like to thank the Art~ department for the use of the Nott Memorial. Furthermore, we invite the whole student body to participate in upcoming exhibitions. · Photo Contest winners Steve Geller (left}, Phil Heuber, and Jon Green. ------Area Calendar-- Preview: 'Butterilies Are Free' EXHIBIT May 16-17--In conjun,ction with Russell Sage College's Alumnae Reunion Weekend, an exhibition of Sage Memorabilia will be held in the New Gallery. The exhibition will take place on May 16 from 4-6 p.m. · and on May 17 from 10-noon. For further information, call .270- 2344 or 270-2246. FAIR May 11- The 1980 Pinsterfest will be held in Albany's Washington Park on May 11 with a raindate set for May 18. This year, as before, the Pin- sterfest will be celebrated with musicians, dancers, mim-es, puppeteers, magicians, crafts people, food vendors, and several special events. Any person interested in par- ticipating in the festival is asked to contact the Albany City Arts Office, 75 New Scotland Avenue, Albany. The phone number is 472...()147. FILM LECTURE May ,13- TIMES UNION arts editor Fred LeBrun goes off IN SEARCH OF THE PERFECT ROB ROY at 12:15 p.m. at the. Albany Pllblic Library, 161 Washington Avenue. For fur- ther information, contact Fran Lewis at 449-3380 (mornings) or 869-9317 (horne). May 15-Argentinian writer Luisa Valenzuela will discuss CONTEMPORARY AMERI- CAN~- LITERATURE at 'H30 p.m. at the Albany .Public Library, 161 Washmgton A venue. For further in- formation, contact Fran Lewis at 449-3380 (mornings) or 869- 9317 (home). MUSIC May 10-The North Riv~r Friends of Clearwater Will· present P~te Seeger in concert at Chancellors Hall of the State. Education Building on Washington Avenue in Albany.· Mr. Seeger will also attend the Pinsterfest in Washington Park that Sunday, May 11, dem?n- strating the art of stearnmg · wood as part of a small boat workshop. For further in- formation, call 434-4963. May 13--Danny Kaye is Loring \Red\ Nichols in THE FIVE PENNIES, a popular R musical film of the late fifties. SEMINA · The film will be shown at 2 and 8 May 10 and 11-EpKA.l~KAR, p.m. in the Albany Public a Spiritual w CIY of Life 1 will hold Library. For further in- a Regional Semmar . at formation, contact F.ran Lewis Rockefeller Plaza, Meetmg at 449-3380 (mornings) or 869- Room 2. The purpose of this 9317 (home). . . event is to introduce the in- . May 14•-\I~amu ~oguch1\ terested public to a point of view . Will be showl} m Meetmg RQom toward life that includes 6 on. the Concourse ?f ~he ' practical methods for living Empir~ State Plaza. This film joyfully and understanding portrait. s~ans f~ur decades . of deeply all experiences, as well the .artist s . achievements,, m- as ways to transcend death and, · cludmg sculpture, park designs experience the levels of heaven ~nd sta~e sets .. For further while still in the physical world. InformatiOn, call 4'73-7521. There willbe free introductor sessions at 10 a.m. on May lOth and at 9:30 a.m. on May 11th. The program itself has ..three sessions: Saturday from 1-4 and from 7-9p.m. and Sunday from 10:30-noon. For further in- formation; call 434-8805 or 374- 7393 (eve). THEATRE / May 16-18-THIS RIVER OF WOMEN, a feminist theater company will present An Evening of One Act Plays, at · Page Hall,135 Western Avenue, Albany. Performance times are 8 p.m. on May 16 and 17, and at 2:30 p.m. on May 18. For further information, call489-5193 or 370- 6294. On Tuesday, May, 20, the ·union College Arts Depart- ment's production of Leonard Gershe's \Butterflies Are Free\ will open in the Nott Memorial theatre. The two-act, serio-comedy will run until Saturday, May· 24th. The cast, under the direction of Tom Farrell and the stage management of Demetra · Pontisakos, includes John Gaines as Don Baker, Conner OBrien as Jill Tanner, Susan Wiener as Florence Baker, and Mitch Baruchin as Ralph Austin. Tickets will be on sale the week of May 12 in the Nott . - Memorial Box office from 1 p.rn.-5 p.m. or you can call 370- 6153 to reserve tickets. Ticket prices are: $1.50 for Union College students with I.D., $2.50 for Union College Faculty and staff members, and $3 for General Admission. People are still needed to help with props, . set construction, make-up, lighting costumes and performance ushering. If you are interested in working on the production of \Butterflies are Free\ in any capacity, please sign up in the green room of the Nott Memorial Theatre or call Demetra Pontisakos at 370-6700. This Friday, May 9, Orrin Star and Gary Mehalick will be appearing at Coffeehouse . The Boston-based duo plays a variety of in- struments from acoustic guitar to mandolin and banjo. Their repertoire includes bluegrass, ragtime, swing, western swing, jazz, traditional and contemporary folk, modern and original instrumentals. They have performed throughout the East Coast, as well as England and Wales. Gary is an Impressive vocal.ist, and is recognized for his precision on the guitar. Orrin, too, is an ex- cellent instrumentalist, having won the title of 1976 National Flatpicking Champion. He has also played banjo in concert with JonathaR Edwards, and together they've opened shows for such notables as Doc Watson, David Bromberg, Tom Rush and Eric Anderson. So, if you're in the mood for some great music, nice company and unlimited refreshments, try Coffeehouse on Friday, May 9, at 8:30p.m. in the Old Chapel.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSI:S, May 8~ 1980 BULLETIN BOARD The German Club is spon- soring a German ''Pot Luck\ Supper 'On May 16 from 6: 30 to 11 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. lf vou would like to attend, please contact Professors Kellenter or Warde, or John Buzanoski by Mav 13. Please indicate :how many will be attending and what vou will bring t enough for 4 pe~lple L Bring your own drinks--wine, beer, etc. If you are unable to bring anything, wt• would welcome a donation to nay for items people are not bringing. ----- E n}oy needh~<·rafts like crewel. needlepoint, and latch hooking? Creative Circle. Inc .. , needs part lime worker~- Will train. Party Plan. Call toll free, 1-800-258-4 714. THE 1984 RECORD 1 formerly the Freshman Recordl Buv vours now! None will be a\'ailable next year. Bring this coupon and $6.00 to Diane Eliot in Stucent Activities. THE 1984 RECORD Name: Box Number Anyone attending Duke University next year and i~­ terested in working out a housing arrangement contact John. Box 1714 or 6514 r af~er 11 p.m.). Lost and Found-: Lost: A navy blue wind breaker, lined, says \Linton Varsity.\ Call 6B22. FOR RENT For Rent--1417 Valenei:a Road, Niskayuna. l will be on sabbatical this falL and seek to rent rny hl>use to a responsible studentls l who will take good care of iil. The rent will be quite moderate; mach more important to us is the security of knowing that uur home wiH be protected. We will require references. and a substantial damage depl1sit. The house is a renter- en! ranee, th re e 7 bed roo'm Colonial, with a study on the second floor, a brant! new kitchen, a large living room, dining l'oom and family room, and a redwood ·deck extending out into a heavily wooded back vard. All utilities use gas heat. A mudroom-laundryroom with a washer and dryer extends off the kitchen. The house is one half block 1st Annual WEBSTER ALL~AMPUS SPRING PARTY l ·,ve Ban ~'~J. 's ~/'\ 'O'ey.Y Fre~ Beer & Soda d \Edsky's Choice\ \------ ·, i-~~~ ' ' I \ . ...,, _) \ ... ~ '-.......:_·_ Concession stand with popcorn, hamburgers, hot dogs. · from the bus line onNott Street. A two.block walkhrings you to a gnmp of stores ealled the Ni·skayuna Coop: groceries, hardware, etc. The house is avail'a l:Jle fn the period August 15 to Deeember 29, or some portion thereof. lf . interested, please see Prof. ··Reynolds, Economies Depart· · n)ent. Pre-reg,istration :for 'fall term 19B0-81 will be avai'lable at the Office of the Registrar,. Room 2, Administration Eu ilding, beginning~Monday, May 19th. Studrnts are urgedtopromptly secure their copy of these materials. Students v.>ho do not plan to return to Uhi~n for tbe fall t'erm, except for ~raduaHng senitJrs, rnust immediately give notice of their plans to the Offiee of the Dean of Students. Students should eonfer with Facultv Advisers during the week ·of May 1:9-23. Some departments may announce special arrangements for ad- vising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, May 26th. A ten dollar ($10.00) late fee will be assessed thereafter! All those interested in forming an Acrobatic Dance Class. fall term of next year. come to organizational meeting in Fox Lounge on Tuesday, May 1:) at 3:30 p.m. No elCperience necessary. Call Alan at ext. 6479 if you can't make.it. PLACEMENT Aetna Life and Casualty-Life Division has positions available for Sales Represe11tatives who would be interested in selling life insurance products. If you are int~rested in speaking . with their representative, please stop by Placement for further in- formation. OH No( He'S EATING A1 HIS FOLKS' PLACE. TONIGHT! WHYDoE5 HIS . f'I\01HER WAITTILL HE'S COMIN6 'TO DtNN~R TO TRY ALL THESE WEIRD \101 WAYS WITH l-[VER 11 RECIPE5 P If you have had any job offers, please let us ~now, Thank you. PERSONALS Paul. Congr(ltulations! The Crew. Rich: We have &dateto dance on Fitzhugh Ludlow Day next vear. I expect you to come :back on that day, just to \swing to blues\ with me. A-Wom. and Gean, \shape\ for the Definitely Academy material. W. w: Get in Movie. Award Scene 156~A.W. eats at West- All of West. Charlene, To be to have to fall? H doesn't rhyme! Oh well, Hi and Love. -L.H.J. There are times· when a student just can't feel blue, like my Friday to come there is plenty to do, I'll have a GREAT BAND and lots of BEER on_. hand with more PEANUTS then you know what to do! B & Dee-Have you ever been over a friendd's house to eat? 1Hip ... HopJ-Baby Bubba O'Toole's Fools II-Great VB Season!! B & D-TRAIN! Dear SDT-Don't relax yet; we're not done with you-R and K r Jeanettes Gravy Girls-Get psyched to win, you harlots! Wanted-One pair of dress shields--will pay good price. For Sale-one pair of dress shields- slightly used flame-retardant. Happy Birthday Lore and Julie--JRS El'len B....;'fhank you .for being undderstanding.,..,JS -- . Welsy--from the G<wferie Hostal to Rue gay 1 still have the pen?l to33Avenida racomer?1 · to \This isnot the same station'' to ''May I see the tickets. No Way! toehBelentadormir?J to Spantex 1 yes it does ex:ist J~we have survived. Thanks kid.- Lover of history and u:ves. Whoever owns the Hang Glider that is on the fourth floor of Carnegie, please see Ms. Marra immediately. O.T. • • • Continued .from page 11 Co'loradu. He will 'bolster the secondary, but ft remains a question why the team did not go after Brad Budde, an of· fensive lineman from U.S.C. In the third round (they had no second round pick because of the Pittsburgh deal for Gordon Gravelle) they WeJlt for Myron Lapka, a defensive tackle from U.S.C. }-!e is . a questionable commodity at this Hme. Danny Pittman, a wide receiver from Wyoming, was their next pick. He is supposed to have great speed, but he too must__prove himself. The Giants should be an improved tea!ll over last year. Whether the team will challenge for the plasoffs remains fo·be seen. The fact, though, is that Giant fans are amongst the most loyal around and deserve better than they have had. The team is moving in the right direction, but this was also the case when the seventies began. Hopefully the Meadowlands will host its first playoff game within the next three years. In order to do so, though, the Giants will have to do a better job in assessing talent in this decade. AND POP JUST, A5t<eo HtM tF HEO . LIKE A .... ·· Co-win for the Week a'\\ turned i perform The co-v for base for lacn Joe 1 mechani· from Car made a Union at stay. Ir sophomo .member basketb major < athletics favorite senior is the basE both pitt during hi years, Jt team's year, his led Unim Joe ; perform week. HE in Union Last Frit triple, d knocked It wa frustrat Stadiun and Sh• up at started Fran T: Tucker Homer names nest G1 This is round • trades. New Y• This: not sta1 into the like a being o from tJ goodyc Franci receive break~ Johns( second. With ' Willie 1 though Tarke11 Minnef Norm

rie r No to 6p0rt6 Co-winners have been chosen for the Miller Athlete of the Week award. The two recipients turned in practically flawless performances this past week. Tne co-winners are Joe Lavery for baseball and Sean Durham for lacrosse. a of- In no of , ble ck. eat an ing ext SO, to ing Joe Lavery is a senior mechanical engineering major from Canajoha:de, N.Y. Joe has made a vast contribution to Union athletics in his four-year stay. In his freshman and sophomore years, Joe was a .member of the varsity basketball team. Lavery's major contribution to Union athletics has come from his favorite sport, baseball. The senior is a fout,..year starter for the baseball squad, and has both pitched and played first during his career. The last three years, Joe has been one of the team's leading hitters. Last year, his team•leadirtg average led Union to the ECAC playoffs. Joe was an exceptional performer during the past week. He has been instrumental in Union's recent winning ways. Last Friday, Lavery collected a triple, double and and knocked in two runs. .. OONOORDIENSIS, May 8, 1980 Page 11 Co· Athletes Of The Week Sean Dl:lrham doubleheader the following day, the slugger had five hits ~nd collected four RBI. Also, in the first game, he knotched a pit- ching victory with a complete- game performance. On Mon- day, Joe continued his torrid hitting with a home run against Hamilton. Sean Durham, a sophomore from Massapequa, N.Y. scored eight goals and was credited with two assists in the Dut- chmen's 17-12 victory over Division III Hamilton. Four of his eight goals were scoret;l within the span of two minutes and 20 seconds. Durham, an attackman, has scored 27 goals and 17 assists, for a total of 44 points in the nine games Union has played to date. Other fine performances by Durham in- clude a five-assist game against Joe Lavery R.P.I. and a four-goal and four- assist game against Colgate. Durham recently transferred from Nassau Junior College, a top junior college powerhouse with eight national cham- pionships. In his last year at Nassau, Durham tallied 48 points on 21 goals and 27 assists in 12 games. Before Nassau Junior College, Sean attended Massapequa High School, which he led to the division cham- pionship in his senior year, with 28 goals and 27 assists. While in high school, Sean received All- Division and AU-south Shore honors. Sean is majoring in economics, and is a welcomed addition to the Union squad. Sean is sure to be an asset in the coming years, as welL Ruggers Win Again by TOM L. GIMP In the inaugural Union University Tournament, the host Union College defeated tough Albany Law SchooL9-6 to win the championship. This was The second half saw the momentum shift to the lawyers from Albany. Play soon became wide open, with both teams enjoying go.od scoring op- portunities. ALS finally got on the scoreboard with a con- troversial penalty kick midway through the second half. Soon after, a drop kick brought Albany even closer, 9-6. Timely · kicks by the line and tough serum play held the opposition in check for the rest , of the game, even though a potentially game tying Law penalty kick sailed just wide of the goalpost with only minutes left in the game. The B game saw Union overpowered by a strong Albany Law School squad. Law scored first with a try,, but Union knotted the score at 4 when Rob Cohen, who con- tributed a superb performance, raced in for a try. The Union ruggers yielded two more times to Law's relentless attack before the half's end. The game ended in an 18-4 score in favor of Law. In the consolation game, Albany Law beat Albany Med, 12-0 .. Rugby! · the first time l)nion has ever beaten the lawyers. With good serum play, the Union ruggers dominated the early stages of a game that proved to be all but brutal. Relentless pressure deep in Albany's end resulted in a scrambling try by Brad Nicholson off a five-yard serum. Dan May's successful con- version resulted in a 6-0 Union lead. May widened the gap to 9-0 with a penalty kick in the closing m!nutes of the half. In the first game, Union outlasted a persistent Albany Med team, 9-6. After Albany jumped to a 6-0 lead off a serum deep in Union's end, the Garnet ruggers answered with a Dan May penalty kick. While tr;ailing 6-3, a relentless Union attack, spearheaded by strong serum play, resulted in a weak- side try by Terry Weber. The successful conversion finalized the scoring with Union on top. Amidst the confusion of the busy day's activities,. the tournament came off without a hitch. Special thanks go to Chip Fenn, Mark Burnett, Niall ''I'll Thump Ya\ Sterling, Max Teichman, Jim Gaffney, Bob ''The Pope'' Powell, and Captain Shat. Help from these parties ensured smooth running of the inaugural Union University Rugby Tournament. Union R.F.C. would also like to thank all spectators who at- tended the games. This week, the rugby club travels to R.P.I. in quest of the missing jersies. ~··. 0 T: Frustration In Jersey by DAVE RUDEN It was a decade .of constant frustration. It started at Yankee Stadium, moved to Yale Bowl and Shea Stadium, and ended up at the Meadowlands. It started with such names as Fran Tarkenton, Ron Johnson,. Tucker Fredrickson,/ and Horner Jones and ended with names like Phil Simms, Ear- nest Gray, and Billy Taylor. This is a story of wasted first round draft picks and muffed trades. This is the story of the New York Giants. This is a sad story, but it did not start out that way. Coming into the 1970's the Giants looked like a very promising team, being only a few players away from the playoffs. They had a good young quarterback named Francis Tarkenton~ a good receiver in Homer Jones, and a breakaway back in Ron JQhnson. Th~ defensive secondary was in good hands with \Spider\ Lockhart and Willie Williams. Along the way, though, the names changed. Tarkenton was traded back to· Minnesota for a washed up Norm Snead and a fullback named Vince Clements. Jones, Lockhart, and Williams retired while Johnson succumbed to a knee ; injury. Instead of replacing these players, the Giants drafted a collection of outcasts that lasted about two or three years in the league. Remember Ro.cky Thompson? Eldridge SmaU. and Larry Jacobson? How about John Hicks? Then, of course, we had the shrewd trading . by the management. Thanks to them we were able to pay ten dollars to watch the talents of Bob Grim, Pete Athas, Junior Coffey, and Jim Del Gaizo. Enough! . Perhaps the greatest stigma attached to the Giants during the past decade was that of \The Fumble.\ SurelY you have not forgotten that auttimn day when the Giants had victory within their grasp only to let Joe Pisarcik fumble it away for them. That was the low point for Giant football in the seventies. After this came the burning of tickets outside the stadium, and the planes carrying signs to the effect that Giant fans had had enough. A great deal·of the blame for past performances should be 'placed in the hands of Wellington Mara, the team's owner. His inefficient handling of the team and its front office was the catalyst to what was done on the field. Many hoped that Mara would sell the team or at the very least let someone eiRe take control of it. Finally, after a year long family struggle for control of the team, George Young ·was appointed general mtilnager and Ray Perkins was named as coach. The two of them started to build the team up last year. Phil Simms looks like a promising quarterback, and Earnest Gray could be a superstar receiver, having· both quick speed and good hands. During the off. season, the Giants acquired Mike Hogan; a strong blocking fullback from San Fransico in exchange for Ray Rhodes. Thus, coming into this year's dr1,1ft, the Giants needed help on .the offensive line, at wide receiver, and in the defensive secondary. In the first round th~ 'Giants drafteii Mark Haynes, a talented cornerback from Continued on page 10 Softball Bows by CBRIS.PHELAN The women's Softball team met Oneonta last week and won 6-4. Union scored four .runs in the first inning 1 • Oneonta responded with a four run rally. but the Dutchwomen held them off with a double play, and then brought in two more runs in the fifth inning. The big hitters were Dot Scarpinato who went 2 for 3, Debbie Downey and Sheila O'Donnell at 2 for 4 . The defensive .action was ex- cellent throughout most of the game. Colgate killed Union 12-0. Their pitcher was excellent, allowing the Union team only four hits. C1>~gate scored quickly and consistently for most of the game, but our defense held up admirably for the rest. Not too much to say about that one. Union had a disappointing 8-7 loss to Russell Sage in an eight inning game. The Dutchwomen were ahe~d 4-0 at the end of the first inning. Then Sage scored three runs, and by the sixth inning the score was tied at 5-5. The action was close for the rest of the game, well played on both sides, and for these two well-balance teams, it was a toss-up as to who would win. The Dutchwomen's record is 3-6, and their last games of the season are against Albany & New Paltz this week.

,· Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, May 8, 1980 6porte Win 3 Of 4: Sluggers Rebou\nd by GLENN KINNS The. Unio~ College baseball team snapped a five game losing streak this past week by defeating Norwich 6-2 and then taking one of two games from Middlebury, before destroying Hamilton on Monday 13-2. Union was crushed by Siena last Thursday 12-{1, at Bleeker Stadium for their final defeat in the losing skein. The Dutchmen could manage only 3 hits aU night, and Junior Dan Thomson collected two .of them. It was Siena that started the losing streak 2 weeks ago, and they came back with the same pit- cher on Thursday. This time around he struck out 14 Union batters in posting the win. The Garnet beat Norwich the following day as the Dutchmen had brought their heavy ar- tillery to the game. Junior Steve Goll rocketed two doubles, while Senior Joe Lavery slammed a triple, double and a single, and drove in 2 runs. Freshman George Oberstadt singled twice for the winning cause. Glenn Kinns won his second game in six decisions, giving up one earned run and striking out eight while walking two. Union bats continued blazing this past weekend as they defeated Middlebury 10-5 in the first game of the doubleheader. Todd Fobare led the barrage with a two. run triple and a single. Joe Lavery pounded a two run double and also added a single. George Oberstadt once again had two singles. Lavery went the distance for his second win in four decisions, striking out three and walking one. The second game was won by Middlebury in the bottom of the seventh inning. Union gave up three runs in the first inning and never caught up until the sixth when Paul McGrath doubled on a shot down the line, and was driven in by a Mike Saccocio .. triple. Saccocio also had a first inning lead off single. Joe Lavery continued hitting at an awesome pace by collecting three hits; a single and two triples, good for 2 RBI's. Todd Fobare drove in Lavery with a single in the fifth to tie the game. Errors were a big factor in the game, as Middlebury capitalized on 5 Union miscues. Wayne Riker (2-3); pitched well for six innings, striking out two and walking only two, before being replaced by Lavery in the seventh. Th~ bases were loaded intentionally to set up a force situation at any ·base. The plan seemed to be working when Lavery induced the next batter to hit a slow grounder to second. Unfortunately, the ball was mishandled, and the winning run crossed the plate. Union trounced on two Hamilton pitchers Monday for a 13-2 massacre. Home runs by Andy Dreher and Joe Lavery each accounted for two runs. A 360 foot triple by Mike Saccocio also highlighted a nine hit at- tack. Glenn Kinns notched his third victory of the cannpaign, striking out five and walking five, before succonnbing to control problenns in the seventh inniqg, when Mike Hogan relieved him. Hogan struck out four in the remaining two in- nings to log his first save of the year. Junior Slugger Steve Goll Union plays Williams today at Central Park, and then finishes the season with a game against Rochester on Saturday and a twinbUl against Hobart on Monday, all at Central Park. Sports Tennis Stands At 6-3 Happenings May 8-. May 15 Baseball May 8 vs. Williams May 10 vs. Rochester May 12 vs. Hobart (2) Varsity Lacrosse Track Tennis Golf Softball May 10 vs. Alumni MayTON. Y.S. at Colgate May 10 at Binghamton May 9 at Middlebury May9at New Paltz Track Falls The Union College track team fell to a strong Albany State squad last Tuesday by a score of 103-51. In the same meet, Williams College failed to at- tend and forfeited to both Albany and Union. Five Union athletes posted wins. The Dutchmen's top performances came in the 400, where Matt Guilfoyle won in 50.9, and in the 5,000 won by Ed Arnheiter in 15:33. Other Union winners were Bob Pavacic in the shot put with a throw of 41-7; Brad Kline in the hammer throw; and Jim Zalucki in the pole vault with a jump of 12 feet and 6 inches. Several other Union athletes · turned in strong times only to finish second or third. Adam Licht finished second in the half with a 2:02.1 time. Dave Dellehunt finishe.d third in the 1,500 with a time of 4:11 and Jack Connor finished third in the 5,000 with a 16:09 clocking. Rounding out the scoring for Union was Pete Halse, third in both the. 120 and 400 meter hurdles; Walter Lutz, second in the shot put and third in the discus; Roger Adler, third in the triple jump; and Dave Wallace, second in the pole vault and javelin. On Saturday, Union par- ticipated in the non-scoring Colgate Invitational. The top individual performance were turned in by Bob Pavacic, who finished fourth in the shot put with a throw of 44 feet 3 inches, and fifth in the discus. Other Union . athletes placing were Brad Kline, third in the ham- mer (123 feet 3 inches) and Adam Licht, fifth in the 1,500 nneter. · Union, 2-5 on the year, con- cludes its season this Saturday at the State Meet at Colgate. The Annual Banquet sponsored by The Block U Society will· be held on Friday, May 23 at 6 p.m. at the Edison Club. All athletes please pick up your ticket by May r3. See Marty In the Athletic Office, Alumni GY!11: byS.BOVIER The Men's Tennis Team improved its already successful record to 6-3 by defeating Siena, RPI, and. Hartwick this past week. In addition to the consistent day-by-day play of Doug \Fried'-' Rice and Jeff Cohen, whose personal records are 13-7 and 14-6 respectively, the key to this year's·success has been the consistency of the other start- ers. Roy Lipson, Barry Rosenberg, and Steve Eskenasi have all . been providing numerous victories in key matches. In addition, a good crop of freshman, including Dave \Space\ Patalita, Bob Stratton, and Howie \Stocks\ Brodsky have all been . alter- nating at 6th singles. The tennis team must be commended fgr its· outstanding record thus far despite numerous injuries that have plagued several of the team's upperclassmen. Sophomore Tom Listina is suffering from a broken bone in his left foot which resulted in his absence throughout the season. Torn (Charlie-hustle), who is one of the hardest workers on the squad, could have made the difference in Union's 3 losses. Sophomore Stu \Cennent Shoes\ Bober has recently returned from a crippling shin- splints injuFY and has managed to attain the team's only un- defeated record of 1-0. On Wednesday, April 30, Union faced a vastly improved Siena team and triumphed with an impressive 8n1 victory. RoY Lipson, Doug Rice, Jeff Cohen, Barry Rosenberg, Steve Eskenasi, and Dave Patalita all registered -easy victories in singles, while Lipson and Cohen, and Rice and Eskenasi both won their doubles matches in straight sets. · On Thursday, Union con- tinued its dominance over RPI with yet another 8-1 triumph. At 1st singles, Roy Lipson's tough \serve and volley\ game proved too much for his op- ponent as he coasted to ~n easy 6-4, 6-1 victory. Doug Hice, the came away with an impressive team's most \creative\ player, 7-2 victory. In- this match, Roy according to technical advisor Lipson registered an easy 6-3, 6- Inderjit Singh, improved his 1 victory, while Doug Rice impressive record with a 6-3, 6-4 overcame a tough .first set loss victory, while Jeff Cohen, the to win 5-7, 6-2, 6-1 for Union. big lefthander, out-lasted his Meanwhile, Jeff Cohen opponent in 3 sets. In addition, ·. continued in his winning ways Freshman Steve Eskenaski, with a 7-5, 6-3 victory. Barry who has proven to be a vital Rosenberg, who is virtually asset to the team, and Fresh- unstoppable when his \serve rnan Howard Brodsky both won and volley'' game is on, rose to easy matches with 6..0, 6-1 and 6~ a 6-4, 6-3 victory while Steve 0, 6-2 scores, respectively. In Eskenasi canne away with an doubles, Eskenasi, replacing easy 6-2, 6·1 win. In doubles, the injured Roy Lipson, teamed strong team of Lipson and with Jeff Cohen to win in 3 sets, Cohen won 6-1, 6-3 and Barry while Rosenberg and Brodsky Rosenberg teamed up with Bob also won their 3 sets nnatch. The Stratton, .a recruit from third doubles match saw Bob Southern California, to· win 6-1, Stratton and Stu Bober combine 7-5. for an easy 6-2, 6·2 victory. With only two away matches On Friday, a tired Union club against Middlebury and SUNY travelled to Colgate, only to be Binghamton remaining, the turned back 8-1. The seasoned tennis team is assured of a Colgate team, proved too tough' winning season. This year's for Union, as they_ won all six team, under the guidance of singles matches and the first - new coach Al Bagnoli, should be two doubles. Barry Rosenberg commended for their hard work and Dave Patalita accounted and determination which has for the only win of the day with a allowed Union to enjoy its finest 3 set victory in doubles. season in many years. On ~onday, after a restful The team's final two matches weekend, a revitalized Union are away, but it would like to . team travelled to Hartwick and extend its thanks to all fans. Third singles and firs1 doubles Jeff Cohen ..... QJ - oil tO - a E ..... 0 z >- .0 0 0 J: a. j( Bee recei Tuesc the positi Admi So ph• tativi: All st and c pollin Q_u. presl basis total! Vern recei centl 198 ' Weis Tues vote! quali Th the I Rep! are vote. Lait: perc with Riel dida perc the F« the Claf The vote Aye pert votE Mal per• N wer \ (7 .7 witl -8cb per 38' Fe1 per vot Ka per vo.t Ve1 cer V01 Me ce1 vo1 Bl; pe: I thl Pr vo Cu re· ce . St of op

a on '6- ice an the rry om 6-1, NY the a of be has to s. - CL E ,_ 0 z b 0 0 s::. a. MaJrt 15, 1980 Volume 109, No. 23 •• Where Were You? Joe Cristofara, first voter on Tuesdc:!Y· ,;~ith Rich Budd,IEiection Committee chairman. .. RUnoffs Today Because no candidate 520 ballots cast, or 98.8 percent. ava.ilable Junior Class receive1 a .. majority in wn: Lloyd .will serve as next Representative positions, t:hey Tuesday s el.«Ctlon, run-offs for year s Jumor Trustee. He were all elected. Weldon Turner the. . student. iove:nment received. 377 ~otes (56.7 per- received 121 votes {35..9 per- postt~o~s of.VlCi~ Presi~ent of cent): BtU D1~onza, another cent); MarlaShorereceived109 Admm1strat1on, and Semor and ...candidate, received. 222 votes v:otes (.32.3 percent); and Rich Sophomore Class Represen.- (30.6 percent), while Marla - Tannenbaum teceived107 votes tatives are taking plac~ tod·9Y· Ban~, the . third candidate, (31.5 percent). All students are .eligible to vote received 66 votes (9.2 percent). . In all, some ·40 percent of the and can cast thett ballots at the .Because only three can- College student body voteo in pollirig·booths at Carnegie Hall. d1dates ran' .for the three Tuesday's election~ by EDWARD ALBRO A combination of water and old electrical cables caused total or partial power outages in nine campus building·s last Thursday. Total power failures occurred at Schaffer Library and Hale House, while com- binations of nonfunctioning lights and power outlets and flickering lights were found in the Nott Memorial, Memorial Chapel, South College, the Administration building, and Old Gym, Stoller (Security and Old Chapel), and Silliman halls. The power failure forced the cancellation of the evening performance of 6 Rm:s Riv;Vu at the Nott and the closing of Schaffer Library ·at 1:30 p.m. Mr. Jack Hill, Director of \Campus Operations, explained that the outage was caused by the shorting of one of three wires in an underground cable. The cable was submerged in collected water, a fact which both contributed to the cable's Q_ualifying for the vice presidential rtin·off, on the basis ~of their Tuesday vote totals, are Cathy .Johnson and Vernon Wetmore. J·ohnson received 277 votes ( 42.7 per- cent), while Wetmore received 198 votes (30.6 percent}. Liz Weisser, the third candidate in Tuesday's election, received 173 votes (26.7 percent) and did not Prof.'Advises Anderso. n . . . qualify for the run~off.. Three students qualified for the two available Senior Class Representative positions. They are David Handler, with 92 votes ( 31.7 percent) ; . Sherry Laitman, with 75- votes (25.2 percent 5; and Mandy Phillips, with 74 votes (25.2 percent). Rich Strauss, the fourth can- didate; received 49 votes (16.9 percent}-and did not qualify for the run-off. , _ by PAUL GlWSSMAN telligent, committed- and contribute in many ways to a S'itting behind his desk, .campaign. The showings in surrounded by reams ofpapers, Vermont and Massachusetts Professor Clifford W. Brown of reflect this. Students distribute the Political Science Depart~ iJ;erature and get the voters ment is lately spending much of out. As a voting block, they his time on the telephone. He is represent . a significant per~ a man whois ·right now playing centage of voters. We could not a very important role in :win in November without the American politics. Prof. Brown support of college students.'' i\s servipg as the Director of Most Union students will be Gollege ·stu'dents, the Afgh;mistan situation. Prof. Brown's explanation was made in a manner similar to that of his candidate, \Anderson has faith in~ our present, volunteer Army. He sees no need at present for registration or a draft.\ The phone r.ang again. It was som~thing about an important upcoming meeting. Something else.abotJt Bush. Something else about Kissinger. Prof. Brown has a lot o£ work ahead of him. He is an integral part of a team striving for victory. With a little luck, and the su.pport of the A.rherican -people, Prof. Brown and his candidate will fmd November not an end, but a beginning. .failure and made its repair more difficult. ''(The probtem) was probably aggravated by the dampness, but there is quite a bit of old wiring,\·Mr. Hill said. \Some of the wiring probably has been in quite a number of years.\ Mr. Hill described the sequence of Thursday's events. At about 8:00a.m. calls started coming into tne maintenance office complaining of flickering lights and non-working elec~ trical outlets. It was originally- assumed that the problems were local and it wasn't until approximately 9:00 a.m. that the scope of the problem was realized. At 2 :00 p.m., the source of the fa~t was finally located. At this time an outside contractor 'was brought in. At 3:00 p.m. all electricity· was shut off in the affected buildings in order to facilitate repairs. Power was finally restored at 9:00p.m. Mr. Hill reported that the College had experienced -a history of electrical failures. When asked if the College planned to replace the old cables, Mr. Hill replied, \Replacement becomes very expensive and the cables could leist another twenty years. There is no reason to replace the cables just because·they've been in for a. few years. What we are going to do is have the switching gear and all splices and connections inspected, which will be helpful in perhaps eliminating this sort of thing in the future.\ In addition, Mr. Hill reported more long range plans to install a loQp system of wiring in which cables would be run in a circle, an arrangement which pllows . for the flow of electricity in two directions. This arrangement means that in case of a break in a cable, power can be rnain- t.ained in most buildings on the affected line. Four students qualified for the three available Sophomore Class Representativy positions. They are Gary Chadtck, with 77 votes (10.9 percent); Cheryl Ayelsworth, with 73 votes (10.3 percent); Sheila Walsh, with 70 votes{9.9 percent); and Duncan MapKenzie, with 57 votes (8.1 percent). .Jtesearch for presidential . voting in their first presidential candidate John Anderson. Upon election this year. With this in entering his office, I was mind, Prof. Brown was asked greeted by a, .. busy Prof. Brown what qualities in John Anderson on the telephone. Before leaving make him the best presidential his office, I felt- fortunate that candidate: \Anderson is there was only one other phone honest, .intelligent, and has had interruption in the course of the enough experience in Congress interview. Prof. Brown, like the to - 'know . its workings candidate he is working for, was thoroughly. He will also attract straightforward· in his highly intelligent people to responses .. If John Anderson assist him. He addresses the ~ becomes oufl.Jlext President, a issues directly and he is con- large part will be due to the sistent.\ highly intelligent and informed - - Prof. :Br-own explained some contributions of Union's Prof. of the more salient issues in Brown. Anderson's . ca'Inpaign. £NERGY CRISIS Not qualifying for this run~off were Ben Levitan, with 54 votes \ (7.7 percent); Mit~h.ell Chess, with 42·votes (6 percent}; Peter · Schessel, witfi · 39 votes (5.5 percent) ; Adam Brodsky, with 38 votes (5.4 percent); 'Matthew Feehan, with 37 · votes {5.2 percent); DavidWollin, With 34 votes ( 4.8 p~tcent); Mike Kaplowitz, with 34 votes ( 4.8 percent); Julie Del Deo, with 33 votes ( 4. 7 percent) ; Stephen Verp, with 28 votes (3.9 per- cent); Stephen Bodmer, with 27 votes (3.8 percen.t); Mark Mogul, with 26 votes (3.7 per- cent); Danny -Laby, with 18 votes (2.6 percent); and David Blakelock, with 17 votes (2.4 percent}. · Dave O'Connor was elected to the f>OSitiun of Student Forum President. He received 484 votes (76.6 p~rcent). .Paul Cunha, the. other .cancUdate,. received 1'48 votes . (23,4-:f)er- ce.nt). · . Jim Fisher will be next year's . Student Forum Vice President of Finance. Running with no oppQsition, he .t:eeleiv:ed 514 of . As Director of Research, Anderson feels that we must - Prof. Brown is aided by a staff. shape up our economy and, as a of approximately twenty· result, we will become a more workers but this number is respected world power because, . growing! as the workluad in- · explained Prof: Brown, we will creases prior to the upcomihg · · regain our position of economic . November election. Prof. power in the eyes of out Brown and his staff hold the European allies. Energy, responsibility of researching Professor Brown said, is the informatio.n .for Anderson 's_ basis of the whole situation. briefs, obtaining information Anderson's frequently alluded ·about other.candidates, and is to \50-50 Plan\ is one that will responsible for turning up any call for a- 50-cent tax on other information, historical or gasoline · coupled with a 50 contemporary, that might percent reduction in Social prove valuable to Anderson's Security taxes. This plan, as quest for the presidency. described by Prof. Brown, Professor Brown travels to would keep. us from \giving · Washington every weekend to aw~y the ownership of the contribute to tlle campaign. His Umted States. It would recir ... opinions are highly regarded l:)y culate money within OUJ;. own both his peers and Anderson. economy and ease . our depen- Prof. Brown believes in his dence on- foreign oil.\ candidate and sincerely feels Commenting on the current that ·a win in November is situation in the .Middle East, possible for John Anderson. Prof. Brown said, \We decided Prof. Brown feels that the not to say too much on the Iran college ·student constituency is Crisis in the interest of national an important one for any unity.\ Prof. Brown went on to presidential candidate. explain Anderson's stance on a \College students are in· topiC of particular interest to Cartoon by Lou Myers . 'l'aken from his book Absent and Accounted For

Page 2 . Editorial Vote Today p A government is\ only as good as its people··.those who serve in 1t and those who elect it. In the case of the on-going student government electlolls here, that's especially so. Accordingly, we offer our congratulations and best wishes to those who have been elected. That elections for sorne of these positions were uncontested is un- fortunate, but at this point immateriaL Now, we hope that those elected wlll be able to fulflli the obligations of their offices to the best of their abilities. However, the fact that no real choice was offered 1n selec.ting candiqates 'tor certain positions does not justify the decision made by some students not to vote. Only about 40 percent of Union's student body of more than 2,000 cast ballots. And that figure is nothing less than distressing, because it should have be~n closer to 100 percent. Without thls input, lt w111 be impossible .for these student leaders to even have a hope of being truly representative. Accordingly, those who did not vote will have no business complaining a'bout the conduct of student affairs during the coming' year, because they passed up a prime opportunity to make their voices heard. Even now, however, this need not -- and should not-· be the case. Run-offs to determine who will serve in the positions of Vice President of Administration, and Senior and Sophomore Representative are taking place today. Details on the candidates who qualified to run, on the basis of the·vote they received Tuesday, are llsted on page one of this issue. Find out who these people are. And then go to Carnegie and vote. Congratulations Concordieiisis congratulates the following students wh<> were elected meml:)ers of Phi Beta Kappa at a meeting held on May 1, · 1980; Class of 1980-Cynthia Aranow, Michael Arato, Jeffrey Battin, Gary Bowitch, Michael Brand, Laurie Brecher, Paul Breene, Melissa Camhy, Patti Chaifetz, Stuart Crandell, Catherine D' Amato, Sari! Dearing, Barry DU3ernardo, Richard Eisen, Matthew Guilfoyle, Edward Horstmann, Sara Jones, Debra Katz, Lisa Katz, Thomas Kelly, Holly Kent, Amy Kloner, Jeanne Linden, Bar.liara Livingston, James Loree, Susan Marcolina, David Marker, Marie Paticopoulos, Rosemary Pike, Sharon Rubin, Rona1d Shelton, Neil Skolnik, Daniel P. Stipano, Kenneth Wach. Class of 1981-Robert Berlin, Steven Geller, Kenneth Gold, Lisa Myers, Richard Rizzo. Phi Beta Kappa is an organization which recognizes junior and senior candidates .for Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science degrees, not including engineering students. While gra,des play a part in the selection ·of inductees, all must exhibit the following charaeteristics: Breadth of educational experience, which requires basic acquaintance with the disciplines of the Arts and Ht.IIIlanities, the S<>cial Sciences, and the Natural and Physical Sciences; and some evidence of intellectual maturity. This evidence shall take the fonn of a statement from a candidate's academic advisor or other faculty member under whom the candidate has worked. editor-in-chief managing editor news editors · features editors arts editor photo editors sports editor . donna creeley· jim davis ed albro, ellen van dyke . dan booth, paul grossman judi chervenak · nonn pflaster; pam ryan . assistant sports editor women's sports editor layout editors rich hope billcllrtin chris phelan sue marr, rachel man del · ellen rubin julie isgro, larry Ieavitt sara simmons ellen berger, maria manfredonia sharon camins, dan rosenfield, mark palumba · copy editor business managers subscription editor calendar staff \ Positions are available in all areas of CONCORDIENSIS for next · year. If interested, leave your name and phone number vij.th Ms. Marta. .. • ~ oj • , ~ ......... ·-' Dear Members of the Graduating Class of 1980: 'The Senior Fling Committee If you feel the same way we do, so far term has been to Cl)me . thara ·litOinlihte.lmoe& you for a loop. you guess what it is? Of course. It's Senior .s.an. 1980. · Surv.•y ... ' ~~.~~~~~~~~~~M~~~*~~pro~ This year the Senior Sl!il will be helrl Thursday. June 12 and includes a variety of gala ac- tivities. To begin 'with, we will have buses available at a cost of. $1 per person, that will begin boarding at 3:45p.m., Thursday afternoon, in front of Memorial Chapel. From Union College, you will be whisked away to the luxurious Queensbury Hotel in My thanks to all of you whri filled out the Placem~nt and Career Ilefoitrces Office sur- vey. A quick summary of the results is as follows: Divl- . Humanities, Div. II--Sodal Science, Div. · fii-8etence, Div. rv-Engineering. ~ The most important office functio-ns to .meet students' !leeds for upperdassmen · in· elude ''t(} help students darify their goals for the future\ (Div. I. II & Ill); and \to aid students .. !·. All Campus Photo 1 :00 p.ni. Friday, May 23 West Wall Raindate: Wed., May 28 . . ' .. dedicated athletes to JVin gold medals so they can advertise nutritionally valueless breakfast foods and hint at movie careers in the \National Star.' • If China protests, we ean offer them Japan or Australia, or we can get together with the U.S.S.R. and nuke the hell out of 'em. If the U.N. General .Assembly passes a resolution ct)ndef9lling these actions, · · Koeh will order the U.N. to be played. ·I've g that_we too maE not too· . \. . . ,~.····11 Blu~ Tl Kee1 mypr~ will c: which weekn while activ:i1 activi1 camp1 one tl entert camp· to tb £rater cabal whic1 pleas: conve the cj I ~u to th< form; am be gill scale speci coupl your: tnak• left o for p impc terta foUo· bed food com: M1 port. ting. moti casi· subt cho1 ( \,

Page 2 OONOOBDIENSISJ May 16, 1980 Editorial Vote Today A government is only as good as its people--those who serve Ln U and those who elect it. In the case of the on-going student government elections here, that's especta.lly so. Accordingly, we offer our congratulations and best wishes to those who have been elected. That elections for som:e of these positions were uncontested is un- fortunate, but at this point immaterial. Now, we hope that those elected will be able to fulfill the obligations of their offices to the best of their abllities. However, the fact that no real choice was offered 1n selecting candidates ·for certain positions does not justify the decision made by some students not to vote. Only about 40 percent of Union's student body of more than 2,000 cast ballots. And that figure is nothing less than distressing, because It should have be~n closer to 100 percent. Without this input, it will be impossible for these student leaders to even have a hope of belng truly representative. Accordingly, those who did not vote will have no business complaining about the conduct of student affairs during the coming· year, because they passed up a prime opportunity to make their voices heard. Even now, however, this need not-- and should not-- be the case. Run-offs to determine who will serve in the positions of Vice President of Administration, and Senior and Sophomore Representative are taking place toda.y. Details on the candidates who qualified to run, on the basis of the vote they received Tuesday, are listed on page one of this issue. Find out who these people are. And then go to Carnegie and vote. Congratulations Concordieiisis congratulates the following students who were elected members of Phi Beta Kappa at a meeting held on May 1, 1980. Class of 1980-Cynthia Aranow, Michael Arato, Jeffrey Battin, Gary Bowitch, Michael Brand, Laurie Brecher, Paul Breene, Melissa Camhy, Patti Chaifetz, Stuart Crandell, Catherine D'Amato, Sarfi Dearing, Barry DiBernardo, Richard Eisen, Matthew Guilfoyle, Edward Horstmann, Sara Jones, Debra Katz, Lisa Katz, Thomas Kelly, Holly Kent, Amy Kloner, Jeanne Linden, Barbara Livingston, James Loree, Susan Marcolina, David Marker, Marie Paticopoulos, Rosemary Pike, Sharon Rubin, Ronald Shelton, Neil Skolnik, Daniel P. Stipano, Kenneth Wach. Class of l!J81-Robert Berlin, Steven Geller, Kenneth Gold, Lisa Myers, Richard Rizzo. Phi Beta Ka()pa is an organization which recognizes junior and senior candidates for Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science degrees, not including engineering students. While grades play a part in the selection of inductees, all must exhibit the following characteristics: Breadth of educational experience, which requires basic acquaintance with the disciplines of the Arts and Hwnanities, the Social Sciences, and the Natural and Physical Sciences; and some evidence of intellectual maturity. This evidence shall take the form of a statement from a candidate's academic advisor or other faculty member under whom the candidate has worked. editor-in-chief managing editor news editors features editors arts editor photo editors donna creeley· jim davis ed albro, ellen van dyke dan booth, paul grossman judichervenak norm pflaster, pam ryan sports editor assistantsports editor women's sports editor layout editors rich hope bill curtin chris phelan sue marr, rachel mandel ellen rubin julie isgro, larry Ieavitt sara simmons ellen berger, maria manfredonia sharon camins, dan rosenfield, mark palumba copy editor business managers subscription editor calendar staff CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 81,2 ReynoldsAve.,Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Remember: Elections for Editor-in-Chief of CONCORDIENSIS for Fall & Winter Terms will be held on Tuesday, May 20. Notices of candidacy should be submitted to Lorraine Marra on or before Monday, May 19. All reporters, staff, and Editorial Board are eligible to v<>te on the 2oth. Positions are available in all areas of CONCORDIENSIS for next year. If interested, leave your name and phone number with Ms. Marra. ~·Lette Class of '80 Sails Away Dear Members of the Graduating Class of 1900: If you feel the same way we do, so far spring term has been great, but there's one event yet to come that's going to knock you for a loop. Can you guess what it is? Of course. It's Senior $ail, 1980. This year the Senior S~il will be held Thursday, June 12 and includes a variety of gala ac- tivities. To begin with, we will have buses available at a cost of. $1 per person, that will begin boarding at 3:45p.m., Thursday afternoon, in front of Memorial Chapel. From Union College, you will be whisked away to the luxurious Queensbury Hotel in Glens Falls, where a cocktail hour (cash bar) begins at S p.m. A lavish dinner will be served at a quarter of six and includes a fresh fruit cup as an appetizer, tossedl salad, Cornish Game Hen on a bed of rice as the main entree, green beans almondine, and parfait as dessert. After dinner, buses will be waiting to move the party to the 32~mile lake, better known as Lake George, where from 8 to 8:30 p.m. we shall board the , Ticonderoga for a thre&ohour ·cruise. As the sun begins tt;rset Lake Genrge, each guest will · a complimentary drink his choice. Throughout the evening, a c~h bar and mun- chies will b.e available on each level of the ship. While on IJullu:u. you can either dance or listen to the sounds .of the band we have planned for this once- lhG·il·lite>til:tle· event. Doesn't t~~ sound great? Aren't you excited? Well, we finished yet. Friday ,.,.. .......... ~....... when your little eye• can stand to see the sunshine, and your stomach is to handle food, do we ever a buffet for you. . In honor of the Graduating Class of 1986, those in possession of a Senior Sail ticket will be allowed free entrance to a gourmet brunch at }:iale no111Se, from 111l.m. to 1:30 p.m. French toast, eggs, bagels; cream cbeese-isn 1 t your mouth Sausage, bacon, •. .. · fruitst cer,~ls, . . . juic~t ·~ as much as you can eat! Addto ~pit all off, · · · you:· del-1--; )tou: ·can .. take. lrom.e a piece <lf gtaduation cake ma(:te especially ff}r the Class of 19811. \ . . &member> the cost of all the above is indttded in the $21} per person ticket price. How can you·· complain about that? a~cause of the 1itnited number· of tickets available, ~sales' are now open solely to seniors. Bus transportation is extremely limited with seating for !)nly 98 uot:'UUl<;;:. We encourage using the service. For a mere $1 per person you can avoid any problems of drinking and' driving. Hurry up, seniors, and purchase your tickets, since they become available for general purchase beginning May 26. So come one, come all, to the memorable social activity oftheyear! Come in ones. come in twos, come in fives. come in eights. Just come, semi·formal attired, ,ready to have a terrific time. Tickets available ~ily fn Student Activities Office. · The Senlor Fling Committee Survey Results My thanks to all of you who filled out the Placement and Career fte~ources Office sur* vey. A quick summary of the results is as follows: Divl- Humanities, Div. II-~Social Science, Div. III-science, Div. IV -Engineering. The most important office functions to meet students' needs for upperclassmen in- clude \to help students clarify their goals for the future\ (Div. I, II & III), and \to aid students in seeking employment\ (Div. IV). For underclassmen, the top priorities are \to provide resources and information on careers\ {Div. I, II & ill} and \t9 aid students . in seeking · employment\ {Div. IV). Preferences -for career in- fol'J:Uation for upperclassmen include info on careers in museun,1s (Div. 1), education (Div. ri), computer .. related careers (Div. III), and engineering (Div. IV). ' The infQt'matiotl tnQst deSired by underclassme.n .inelud.e.s: journalism. (Div; I),· .govern- ment (Div. II), medicine (Div. III), engineeririg (Div. lV)., - . Services d;esired by the Up- perclassmen consist of: grad - school recruitment (Div. I), grad school information {Div. II, Ill) j job search strategies (Div. IV). · . The underclassmen seem to desire: summer employment (Div. I, II & IV}., interest testing (Div. III). Programs are now being created or expanded to meet · these needs, and will be an~ nounced during Spring Term in Concordiensis . Thanks again, BobPa.traw Iranian· Solution To the Editor: . This)s it.J£nough is enough. No m~re · M:t\ Niee PEirson. Wetve been foaling .around with thqse bloody camel. jockeys for too .. long. No self*respecting superpower can afford . to tt)Ierate this kind of behaviQr. , We submit the following solutionto thelrania:rt Crisis; 1) Give·lran f~r warning tltttt .if the hastages are not ·released immediately, the Holy City of Qum will be nuked with neutron bombs (so as to , preserve irreplaceable cultural struc- tures) launcped using cruise missiles blessed by a Bishop. 2) If the hostages are not released, the threat will be carried out·- and various Iranian cities ,will be nuked one by one at regillar intervals. 3) If the hostages are harmed in any way, the entire country of Iran will he hydrogen bombed into a hot thin souo (cultural structures be dani· All Campus Photo 1 :00 p.m. Friday, May 23 West Wall Raindate: Wed., May 28 ned). \This will cause WW III!\ we hear you cry. Tush, tush! Why should the U.S.S.R. complain? They already have Afghanistan and if they want, they can have Pakistan or Iraq. Who needs thase insignificant middle· Asian countries. anyway? Also, as a gesture of good will, we can go tQ the Moscow Olympics after ~ all, thus enabling dedicated American athletes tQ }Vin gold medals so they can advertise nutritionally valueless breakfast foods and hint at movie careers in the ''National Star.\ I~ China protests, we can offer them Japan or Australia, or we can get together with the U.S.S.R. and nuke the hell out of 'em. If the lJ.N. General Assembly passes a ~esolution cond~~ning these actions, Mayor Koeh will order the U.N. building to be condemned and destroyed. This plan is our only feasible alternative. A military solution to the Iranian Crisis i& certainly necessary, but mere commando raids are nothing. short of im-' . potent. Those who advocate a peaceful settlement are ob- viously brain damaged from addiction to hard <Jrngs such as marijuana· and beer. A con- certed nuclear attack is the only answer. We demand that the entir-e campus community j<lin the ~ehene<:tady {:lter . q~ SNIJ?~{stM~~t$ for .. iil tan to Pieces);.' PLEASE . R OUR' PLEA}.NUKE IRAN! With complete disrega;rd ~for our own lives, • Adam F~ey, . . Pmer Pe.rrinj; Concerned Americans Lack Of ' . o_.ga,nization To the Intramural Department and Campus Community: This letter is, in part, prompted by the letter of John Samarco (May 1, 1980), and the \Union Days and Nightsj' ar~ ticleof last week, 15y Jim Davis. More importantly, it is inspired by ·my frustration with the Union College Intramural Department. -While it is easy to crtt~ictz;e, also realize the inv'OlY~ln runnintf an ef·f ·.e·~ :ftl\re and worthwhile program. I the main ulties r~rqJ,.re ·around the ct that there '~i!Clt. Qf · stri(it :OtgfJUizAt!un .· .. mnney, 13ut1f! u t<ro rpu~h to · for a decent intrauJut·~ progrMm? . .. , Organizafiun means dination of.the variown · · So that thertl are no · games at e::top;m. and fris~e · games at 7 p.m., both ·tJn Daley Field\ (}rg:ifrdzation mea · · umpires· and! referees-whether· this is made mandatory for each team to supply, or whether referees are paid extra to en~ courage their availability. Many subproblems can be resolved through this guaranteed officiation. Automatic roster checks, prompt starts, and equipment checks can be taken care of by the official of each game. Regarding the scheduling\ of games: if all games are played between Sunday and Thursday, each team can request one ''no- play\ day to take care of house meetings, road trips, classes. · etc. This re,quest would be acknowledge by the schedt.tlers .. once. the schedule is tliad.ei · fianc$Uation$ ~auld. be ;allciW.:a1bla .• ·• uttless the refer~~ · teatn~· and . tbe .,t ' . ' $20, I properl: redudn, by rest team, any organi~ volvin tidpati somec not too ' ' To the Blu T Kee my pr will • whid weekr while activi activi camp one t enter· camp to th frate1 caba whic pleas conv• the c I a to tb form am be gil scalE spec coup your mak left< foq imp tert~ follo be c food com M port ting mot casi sub1 cho~ ( \ ...l\t ••

OONCORD1EN818, May 15, 1980 Page 3 Union Days & Nights: Food For Thought <Znirttll!d am;l inch~asingthe numbet• cf ·gaa:n¢s played. · . M'!tgs r:ffay oo pick$d up at my · offi.Cf!, \,which is l()(!ated in I;amont .HO'USe. Ro(}m 303. · I've gone to too many games hat_ were not playtld ~n ti~ · mamyth.at were pJ:ayeftwith ... , .. --.-COngratUlations .also to . the cardboard boxes as bases,. and - three winning teams~ Sigma tOQ;\.nllltny that we~- .Xt!t~ ·ev~ ... J)cJ~ .. 'J;al,l .. l (Captai} · ~Jison played. 1 ~m til'¢d frf tlUSD?ll· WoQd); west, Fo!Jrth , FlOor sense~ -In. tts catam~\!le~ 'lln~Q.Jl. ( <;;apt~in Norm, an Pflaster}; boasts phts '~strong mtrrunural . and Third Floor Davidson ... ~ • .., ... ,_ department!? That:~ludier~tm; (Captain Debbie -:schneider). There are too many flaws~ The captains may \drop by my Blue -Skies Over Union:· by JIM DAVIS . Looking for a quiet, secluded establishment to spend a leisurely lunch or dinner? Better not try West College or Hale House dining halls. These places aren't designed as fast-food havens, but in some ways they might as well be. It ;s not that their operator, the College Food Servire, actively encourages diners t<J eat in a hurrv l<Jr that the food served is of in.ferior quality. Hatber. the problem is that these facilities are grossly overextended. There just aren't enough seats to accomodate the ~­ flow of traffic at peak times. ~ And for those freshmen . who E must eat at West and those Ill upperclassmen who choose to a. eat at Hale. that means that li meals can turn into something o like musical chairs. ] Essentially, this is a nwnbers Cl. problenL With the extension of Hale's dining hall into that building's lower lounge--an awkward arrangement--17~ people can now be seated at one time there. The capacity at West is about 240. This year. some 800 students- about 500 freshmen and 300 upperclassmen-are on College meal plans. That means there are barely half as many dining hall seats avaHable--415--as there are diners-800. Still, with weekday lunches being served from 11:30 a.IJl . untH l:30p.m. and dinners from 5 to 6:30 p.m., that would seem to !'eave more than enough time for a reasonably paced, if not downright leisurely, m€al. In reality; though, dining hall patrons don't come at evenly paced intervals. They come in waves, the largest one probably cresting at about 12:30 p.m.. atter morning ni:l~ses. And that's probably the worst time for this crunch to happen. Imagine, . for example, that you've just finished an exam and have a paper to write in the afternoon. The last thing you want to bother with at lunch is where you're going to sit, who you're going to sit with, .and how long you'il be able to stay there. While this problem has always existed. It seems to be magnified this year. Once TJ1row A Small Party by I). BOOTH Keeping in the same vein as my previous article, this article will also discuss activities - which can he done on weeknights. It occurred to me, while thjnking over the myriad activities available, that the orte activity which is missing on this campus is entertaining. When mellowness, if one will. Until th~ movie \1()\ my_ personal favorite had always been cocktail. Daquiris and Pina Coladas are particularly ap- propriate, but two other drinks which are fantastic made in quantity are the \Angel's Tit\ and the \Slow Comfortable Screw\ (Up against the wall if one so desires.} An Angel's Tit is made with Strawberry Liquer poured over crushed ice, then a tablespoon of cream spooned across the top of each glass, and one thinks about the scope of entertainment available on this campus, one is quickly limited t to the large, often tiresome 1ii L' fraternity party or th.e various ~ r\.\ cabarets and coffeehouses, o... ·. a fresh strawberry as the crowning touch. The Slow Comfortable Screw- is simply Sloe Girt, Southern Comfort, and which although always E pleasant, .lack the-. qu~ck witty 5 . ·\ conversatiOn of the B1stro and z the comfort of clos~ friends. . ~ ~ a Screwdriver with a splash of soda. A sprig of mint should be added. The food should be strictly fruit; save the cheese for fall parties, A large bowl should be filled with slices of every fruit possibly imagined: ~ strawberries, limes, oranges, I am not suggesting a return .2 ., .. ,, to the snobby invitationals or ~ --, formal card carrying; rather r a. ·lemons, pineapples;. m.11ngoes, \Bolero\, mainly because of its cherries, pertif!ps even some insistent melody, which starts nuts. ever so quietly and then builds But the most important thing to a shuddering Climax. Now is the- creature comforts. that this has become a bit Impress Upon your guests that cliche, t suggest Richard----- this is strictly informal, Greet Strauss• \Don Juan\. This them at the door in something begins with some clever casual yet alluring. For men, a . should be lit with soft candles, the music should be playing, and the floor covered with blankets and pillows f.or loungi!).g. Try to recreate the atmosphere of the Arabian Nights. Once all the guests have arrived, it is time to enjoy y6ur friends for the evening. This can be done in a variety of ways, the most popular being \mingling\, that is, going from one member to the next, being certain to engage each one. This mingling creates a one on one situation detracting from group togetherness. My suggestion is to start in threesomes and · foursomes. It is· just as easy to , enjoy two friends at a time as it is to enjoy one. If one of your friends has been down lately get the whole group together in a group on one situation: one could massage her back, another her feet or something of a similar nature. I think that mote entertaining of this sort should take place on .campus. So group together and enjoy your friends. · again, the numbers bear out this observation. The number of students on a meal plan-10, 14 or 19 weeks- has almost doubled over the past three years, from about 450 in 1977-78 to about 800this year. Most of this increase has been ;tt Hale House,. where the num brr of patrons has in- creased from around 30 to some 250. Angelo Mazzone, director of theCollege F~•od Service, thinks there are twu reasons for this growth. First. the quality of tht• food servt>d has impr11ved. 1.Current· juniors and senwrs \vould be the ones to conf-irm this wit h. l And, second, regulations prohibiting cooking in mt>st dormitories have been mort• strictly enforced. · Ht• also understand-s the problems that go along with this ·· growth and. wants to du something to alleviate thern, The most promising solution now under consideration is for the construction of a new dining hall that will seat from 600 to 900 people. Its cost is estimated at between $2 and $3 million, and construction will take a minimum of two years. Among the possible sites is one behind Carnegie Hall. Under this plan. the proposed dining hall will connect w:ith the existing building, to form a truly complete \student <;enter.\ Union's Board of Trustees is scheduled to consiaer this propos·al at its June meeting. And while, at first glance, this project seems to require a ~onsiderable expenditure-es- .pecially .. with today's tight money-its benefits appear to make it more than justifiable. First, its construction would allow Hale and West dining to be dosed to regular dining service. Hale could revert back to its intended use, as a special- events dining facility. And the space in West could be con· verted into dorm space, bringing in added student room rent. And a good chtmk of money would be saved in food preparation and serving costs, now split between Hale and West, because they would be centralized in one location. Most important, though, is what this unified facility would do for those who dined there. With increased space, they could treat their meals as something more than a bare necessity, to be endured but not enjoyed. Personal interaction would be encouraged. Students would feel better about themselves, and therefore contribute more to the College. In the end, isn't that what a liberal arts college like Union-is all about? am ·.suggesting that Union begins to entertain on a small scale. Throw a party for some speCial friends; say maybe five · coup~es. and a companion fclf _ yourself ( even.numbers seem to make things easier; no one is left out of the furt.) Atmosphere for private entertaining is very important. Evening · en· tertaifiing must prpvide . the following c:lllsentials, which wm be <Uscll!!sed in detail: music, food -and drink, and creature foreplay. builds in intensity, button-down shirt one size too climaxes, and unlike \Bolero\, large, untucked and cuffed. It slows dowrt the,pace with some should be white to set off that WJ.tAi'S 1'#E VLTlMA\'TG' 4 LE1TER comforts. · Music has always been irn· portant to establishing a set- ting. Classical m~ic is the motif which best fits this oc· casion, for its C01llplex and subtle melodies seem to strike a chord within us of relaxation. of gentle~ smiling notes of ap- great - tan you've been predation. - cultivating. The pants should be The food and drink, aside from the company, form a large portion of the enjoyment at a party. Since few of. us can afford the exJ)enditrue of a full bar, I suggest a few pitchers of one · typ,e of drink, preferably a cryo- your oldest pair of jeans; no shoes. The C.1llogne should be something faintly suggestive 1 like Royal Copenhagen Musk, or Piccole Monde. For women, a silky shirt of .bright color' also unbuttoned and untucked. The room. as. the guest enters, SIGMA CHI SPRING FEVER J21hANNUAL CLAMBAKE SAT,)May 17th _12-6 PM WORD ~ THE NtJVIE llfA'T' MAKES YOV ~L.IJ$H ~~ /..GAVIN~ ? . • # - © 1980 BRIGHTON PRODUCTIONS. INC

OONOORDlENSIS, May 15, 1980 Page 3 Union Days & Nights: Food For Thought Roster checks WQUld. keep conapettt,1 .. < m. honest and within rules of intramural play. Mnr·oov·ar, with a deposit of $10 $20, only teams that will be . fielded will enter, thus reducing the number JJf teams, by restricting players to one . team, thus creating more and fun competition by \\\\\'\'\' the numbet· of games played. I've gone to too many games hat were not played on time, many that were played with boxes as bases, and many that were n~Jt even I am tired of this non~ \'\'1'\''\ In its catalogue, Union of its \strong intramural .. rn~<>., .\ That's ludicrous. are too many flaws, many monetary, many organizational and many in· volving individual par· ticipation. I feel it is about time some changes result ... if it is not too much to ask, - '- · Harry Adamakos - Class of 1981 Phonathon- · Success To the Editor: to Phll)nettih<m '$UC'h a sueeess. AJ3A1· was ra!s~d during f&ur nights of calling. rndivid~al \mug wi~ners wer~: Bernadette Albanese \33~ Beth Baumgarten '83, Ravi Bhaskar '83, David Campanile '83, David Feldman •ao, David Fox '83, Stephen Goll '81 Joseph Harkins '63, Cora~yn Hertzberg '32, Michael Kapl~witz '83, Lisa Massaroni •so. Pamela Meyer'·'83. Mugs may be picked up at my office, -which is located in LamL)nt House, Room 3()3. Congratulations also to Lh€ three winning teams: Sigma Delta Tau I 1 Captail Alison Wood l; West, Fourth Floor {Captain Norman Pflaster); and Third Floor Davidson South r Captain Debbie -schneider). The captains may ·drop by my office to pick up their p:rize. Special thanks go to the student committee for all their hard work. The committee consisted of: Chairman Vivian Farrcell '80, John Montanile '82, Bob Berlin '81, Seth Men· delowitz '82, Katy Abraml? '8(), Debbie Rudolph '82. Thanks! Paul Riesehiek '74 Director of Anm.tal Fund Blue Skies Over Union: hyJIMDAVIS Looking for a quiet, secluded establishment to spend a leisurely lunch or di:nner? Better not try West College or Hale House dining halls. These places aren't desi~ned as fast-food havens, but in some ways they mtght as well be. It's not that their operator, the CoHege Food Service, actively encourages diners to eat in a hurrv or that the food served is of in~ferior quality. Sti:ll, with weekday lunches being served from 11:30 a.r)l.. untill :30 p.m. and dinners fr0m 5 to 6:30 p.m., that would seem to leave more than enough time for a reasonably paced, if not d0wnright leisurely, meal. In reality, though. dining hall patrons don't come at evertly paced intervals. They come in waves, the largest one probably cresting at about 12:30 p.m .. Rather, the problem is that these facilities are grossly uverextended. There just aren't enough seats to acmmodate the.. fi flow uf traffic at peak times. ~ And for those freshmen who must eat at West and those ~ upperclassmen who choose tu a.. eat at Hale. that means that }; meals cart turn into something o like musical chairs. :g Essentially. this is a numbers a.. problem. With the extension of Hale's dining hall into that building's lowl'r lounge--an awkward arrangement--17;) people can now be seated at one time there. The capacity at West is about 240. This vear, some 800 students- about ·500 freshmen and 300 upperclassmen-are on College meal plans. Tl!at means there are barely half as many dining hall seats available--415--as there are diners-800. -:§i.!;.>:{{f'. ~- '·\·~~ .• atter nwrni11~ cw:::.ses. And that's probably the worst time for this crunch to happen. Imagine, for example, that you've just finished an exam and have a paper to write in the afternoon. The last thing you want to bother with at lunch is where you're going to sit, who you're going to sit with, and how long you'll be able to stay there. While this problem has alwavs existed, it seems to be magnified this year. Once Throw A Small Party by D. BOOTH Keeping in the same vein as my previous article, this article will also discuss activities v.;hich can be done on weeknights. It occurred to me, while thinking over the myriad activities available, that the one activity which is missing on this campus is entertaining. When mellowness, if one will. Until the movie \10\ my personal favorite had always been one thinks about the scope of entertainment available on this campus, one is quickly limited a; to the large, often tiresome \ti fraternity party or the various : riA cabarets and coffeehouses, a. X which although always E !I pleasant, lack the quick witty s \ conversation of the Bistro and z the comfort of close friends. E \*'\\\\\~ I am not suggesting a return ~ • to the snobby invitationals or _g formal card carrying; rather I a. cocktail. Daquiris and Pina Coladas are particularly ap- propriate, but two other drinks which are fantastic made in quantity are the \Angel's Tit\ and the \Slow Comfortable Screw\ (up against the wall if one so desires.) An Angel's Tit is made with Strawberry Liquer poured over crushed ice, then a tablespoon of cream spooned across the top of each glass, and a fresh strawberry as the crowning touch. The Slow Comfortable Screw · is simply Sloe Gin, Southern Comfort, and a Screwdriver with a splash of soda. A sprig of mint should be added. The food should be strictly fruit; save the cheese for fall parties. A large bowl should be filled with slices of every fruit possibly imagined: strawberries, limes, oranges, lemons, pine(ipples, mangoes, cherries, perhaps even some nuts. should be lit with soft candles, the music should be playing, and the floor covered with blankets and pillows for lounging. Try to recreate the atmosphere of the Arabian Nights. Once all the guests have arrived, it is time to enjoy your friends for the evening. This can be done in a variety of ways, the most popular being \mingling\, that is, going from one member to the next, being certain to engage each one. This mingling creates a one on one situation detracting from group togetherness. My suggestion is to start in threesomes and foursomes. It is just as easy to enjoy two friends at a time as it is to enjoy one. If one of your friends has been down lately get the whole group together in a group on one situation: one could massage her back, another her feet or something of a similar nature. I think that more entertaining of this sort should take place on campus. So group together and enjoy your friends. again, the numbers bear out this observation. The number of students on a meal plan-10, 14 or 19 weeks- has almost doubled over the past three years, from about 450 in 1977-78 to about 800 this year. Most of this increase has been at Hale House, where the number of patrons has in· creased from around 30 to some 250. Angelo Mazzone, di,rector of the College Food Service. think!' there are tw() reasons for this growth. First. the quality of the food servE.'d has impruved. r < 'urrent juniors and Sl'mor!' would be the ones to confirm this with. 1 And. sel'ond. regulations prohibiting cooking in most dormitories have been mort• strictlv enforced. HP also ·understands thP problems that go along with this growth and wants to du something to alleviate them. The most promising solution now under consideration is for the construction of a new dining hall that will seat from 600 to 900 people. Its rost is estimated at between $2 and $3 million, and construction will take a minimum of two years. Among the possible sites is one behind Carnegie Hall. Under this plan. the proposed dining hall will connect with the existing building, to form a truly complete \student center.\ Union's Board of Trustees is scheduled to consider this proposal at its June meeting. And while, at first glance, this project seems to require a considerable expenditure-es- pecially ' with today's tight money-its benefits appear to make it more than justifiable. First, its construction would allow Hale and West dining to be closed to regular dining service. Hale could revert back to its intended use, as a special~ events dining facility. And the space in West could be con- verted into dorm space, bringing in added student room rent. And a good chunk of money would be saved in food preparation and serving costs, now split between Hale and West, because they would be centralized in one location. Most important, though, is what this unified facility would do for those who dined there. With increased space, they could treat their meals as something more than a bare necessity, to be endured but not enjoyed. Personal interaction would be encouraged. Students would feel better about themselves. and therefore contribute more to the College. In the end, isn't that what a liberal arts college like Union is all about? am suggesting that Union begins to entertain on a small scale. Throw a party for some special friends, say maybe five couples and a companion for yourself (even numbers seem to make things easier; no one is left out of the fun.) Atmosphere for private entertaining is very important. Evening en- tertaining must provide the following essentials, which will be discussed in detail: music, food and drink, and creature comforts. ''Bolero\ mainly because of its insistent melody, which starts ever so quietly and then builds to a shuddering climax. Now that this has become a bit cliche, I suggest Richard- Strauss' \Don Juan''. This begins with some clever foreplay, builds in intensity, climaxes, and unlike ''Bolero\ slows down the pace with some gentle, smiling notes of a~ predation. But the most important thing is the creature comforts. Impress upon your guests that this is strictly informal. Greet them at the door in something casual yet alluring. For men, a button-down shirt one size too large, untucked and cuffed. It should be white to set off that great tan you've been cultivating. The pants should be your oldest pair of jeans; no shoes. The c9logne should be something faintly suggestive, like Royal Copenhagen Musk, or Piccole Monde. For women, a silky shirt of bright color, also unbuttoned and !1ntucked. The room, as the guest enters, WHA-r'S 1~£ VLIIMAIG' 4 LE1TE\R Music has always been im- portant to establishing a set- ting. Classical music is the motif which best fits this oc· casion, for its complex and subtle melodies seem to strike a chord within us of relaxation, of 'l'he food and drink, aside from the company, form a large portion of the enjoyment at a party. Since few of us can afford the expenditure of a full bar. I suggest a few pitchers of one type of drink, preferably a cryo- SIGMA CHI SPRING FEVER 12th ANNUAL , CLAMBAKE SAT, May 17th 12-6PM E PARTY! WORD Ft?R THiii MDVII& THAI MI+K.e S YOV F'L.IISH BER>RE' LEAVING( ? ©1980 BRIGHTON PRODUCTIONS INC

Page 4 Blake: A Visionary ·Man \I see everything i paint in this world, but everybody does not see alike.'' ' . . by PAUL FEINSOT and CHRIS PHELAN . the notion that man has a body distinct from his soul is to be expunged; this I shall do, by reprinting in the infernal method, by corrosives., which in Hell are salutary and medicinal, melting apparent surfaces away, and .displaying the infinite which was hid. and Ptofessor Jon Ramsey ot Skidmore's English department (and · others), compiled some ideas about Blake as an in- traduction to the exhibition and the symposium. \Blake was one of those rare individuals who was never satisfied' with the ways of the world, and. who. believed that he could change the world so that it would become more like his dream of what it might be. In this quotation from The During his sixty-nine years, Marriage of Heaven and Hell, Blake did something ·of almost Blake is asking us to subject everything. He drew in pencil, ourselves to the kind of chalk, and waterc.olor, and corrosive flames which · will painted in watercolor and \burn away the falsehoods we tempera. He made etchings, hold about our lives, .the world engravings, colorprints, around us, and our image of the woodcuts, and a lithograph. He Godhead,\ in orderthat we may wrote prose essays, prose distinguish human life as being satires, plays,. epigrams, lyrics sanctified ab<Jve all other and epics. As a poet and artist things. Something similar to he took nothing for granted; he this process occurred this past ~ continually experimented with Friday and Saturday as Union new possibilities;. he never, and Skidmore Colleges com- ceased from creative explor· bined their efforts to produce ation.\ the Blake Symposium. Although The exhibition is divided into Blake himself would probably eight sections, each providing a have scoffed at much of what · different point of · focus on any individual night have said Blake's life and work. Section at the conference as perceptions one focuses on Blake's life, and \thro' narrow chinks .of his the second section, on four of cavern\ (and indeed what the philosophical and literary might have been his spirit was figures who most influenced looming inside Memorial (positively and negatively) his Chapel on Saturday night thinking. Section three em- causing the paper window phasi.zes the popularity of songs coverings to fall at significant and ballads in the ·tate po'i.nts during · Professor eighteenth century (this Rosenblum's lecture), the provided the background in- Symposium in its entirety formation for Professor Karl \cleansed .. the doors of per- Kroeber's talk on \Blake and ception\ permitting those who the Tradition of Song\). The participated to view a greater • . next two sections concentrate scope of interpretation of the - on Blake's work as engraver, Poet, Printmaker,and Painter's illustrator, and designer (this work. supplementedJoseph Viscomi's The Symposium opened on conference . workshop on the twenty-first of April with an \Blake's Printing Methods\). exhibition of Blake's Sections six and seven focus on' illuminated books an.d etchings the illuminated books, and the in the Scribner Library at interrelationships of text and Skidmore (this exhibition design, word, and image in opened at Schaffer Library on them, which was the subject of May 12th and will continue until EdwardJ. Rose's talk, \Blake's June 15th). As a background for Windows Into Eden.\ The last the works which were being . section includes infonnation on shown, Professor Jim McCord Blake's magnificent water- of Union's English department, colors and engravings of The f' ' .. . Book of Job, and on the tradition of the EngliSh bard; which was discussed by Robert Gleckner in his talk on Blake's \The Voice of the Ancient Bard.'' The symposium opened at Skidmore on Friday morning with a panel discussion followed by a luncheoa at the College. . The welcoming remarks • were made after lunch by Skidmore President Joseph ·C. Palainotmtain, Jr., and Union President John S. Morris. President Morris delievered the following speech: '. .. . . ~ . _.,. ':-. I There are moments in this crazy world when one feels that one has, entered a strange benighted reality where all the calm reasonableness . of our American naturalism, epitomized by the calm and sure John Dewey, has been unhinged by a demon of unreason. The calnl assurance of seeing problems and solving them easily and reasonably seems to have been overtaken . by the lack of assurance before the apparent failure of reason. At Deathts Door . E1ake surely would have undeFstood our predicament, though he would not have sympathized with us. He would have sensed our passage from easy unreflective innocence into the snaring 'cruelty of ex- perience and would see our unsureness and frustration arise out of our loss of the in- nocent vision. I have been very ne.ar the Gates of Death and have returned very weak and an Old Man feeble and tottering, but not in Spirit and Ufe, not in the Real Man, the Imagination ,_liveth forever. \Because I was happy upon the heath and smiled among the winter's snow; , They clothed me in clothes of death~ And taught me to sing the notes of woe.\ special interests, pull our political structure into a tor-_ ment of indecision. The reality of our .place in global politics, where we are no longer the giant who can police the world, but indeed can be stopped cold by a nation which is itself upon the brink of anarchy, sets our teeth on edge _and we are left wondering if there is any place for us to go. Like Job we sit up.oh our dunghill nursing our boils- but we are in danger of not having Job's quiet dignity and our sometime frenzied response -•shouts down the still and quiet voice that heralds the healing Surely Blake would have well 'viS:ion. . understood our condition of woe The sickness of our days of and despair at our loss of the experience is deep.indeed, but it self-assurance of yesteryear is a sickness which arises when we were the rulers of all because of the nature of our we surveyed-a time when vision of reality. Having passed \When the voices of children are heard on the green And laughing is heard on the through innocence must w~ rest with the bitterness of another brute reality? It would seem to me that Tyger! Tyger! burning bright In the forests of the night What immortal hand O\i\ eye. Could frame thy fearful symmetry? hill, Blake's importance for our day My heart is at rest within my is that he r-eminds us of the need breast for a poetic vision which goes And everything is still.\ beyond both the untutored joy of innocence and also the bitter, Now we are faced with dif- dark secret of experience. · ferent voices and visions.: , In a letter to Dr. John Trusler, . Blake wrote: ' \When the voices of child.i-en \I see everything I paint in some future heaven attainable, but in this moment in our world which can be seen as the real universe. We are recalled to the great mythological forms of vision to see ourselves in our world·as a dramatic ritual in which truth is proclaimed, but this truth is one which breaks through our time· and our experience to the depth of self~understanding which ·underlies our humanity and divinity. Sleepers in the land of shadows, we are called to awaken to a different vision of ourselves--one, Which gives us perspective and an assurance in values other than our own. No longer the self-assurance of.· innocence, but the assurance of one wh-O has grasped the meaning of the bonds of bit- terness a:nd of struggle and now lies open to the still small voice of the Divine. I hope that we can together see something of the vision that Blake opens up for us: he would be happy to have us try to elucidate those visions together. \I am happy to filld a great majority of fellow mortals who can elucidate my vision and particularly they have been elucidated by children, who have taken a greater delight in contemplating my pictures than I even hoped. Neither youth nor childhood is folly or incapacity. ' are ·heard on the green this world, but everybody does •. Some children are fools and so -. are soine old men. But there is a vast majority on the side of imagination or spiritual sen- sation.\· In our youth and age We join to.gether on the side of imagination .. ' ~ . .;,. '· ......... Portrait: William Blake And' whisperings are in the dale, not see alike . . . You certainly The days of my you~h rise-fresh mistake when you say that the in my mind, · - visions of fancy are not to be My faee turns· green and pale. fourtd in this world. To me this world is all one contained vision Then come home children, the of fancy or imagination and I sun is gone down feel flattered when I am told so. and the dews of night arise; What is it sets Homer, Virgil Yo\ir spring and yout day are and Milton in so high a rank of wasted in play Art? Why is the Bible more And your winter and night in entertaining and inst'ructive disguise.\ than any other Book? Is it not because they are addressed to the imagination which is spiritual sensation and but mediately to the Understanding or Reason.\ The reality of our days is epitomized by the loss of in- · nocence. The experiences we have gone through these last two decades have thrown us into a kind of inner frenzy which is symbolized by the adver~arial quality of so much of our lives; in journalism, law and even academe. Our social structure is rent apart by cross a:c-' cusations and some new \ism\ arises daily. The emphasis of special interests upon our · political life, often contrary Blake bids us not to look beyond the world, not simply to accept a world before us as a fateful manifestation of itself. Rather Within it, as it speaks to our imagination we can find an ,intelligible whole that tran- scends the flux of time. This place of .life is not at some distant poiht 1ri time, either in a past Golden 'Age now gone, or / Karl Kroeber, Professor of English at Columbia Univer~ sity, and ·an authority on con- nections, between eighteenth- century painting and poetry, gave a lecture on \Blake and the Tradition of Song.\ He focused primarily on the ''Songs of · Innocence and of Experience,\ and especially on the difficulty of interpreting the \Songs of Innocence.\ In his discussion of \The Lamb,\ be suggested that the reader should \-be at once child and adult. The child perceives things to be what they are called, i.e., a lamb is a lamb. Because of the uninhibited nature of the child, words mean what they are supposed to mean. It is only 'in the state of experience that we can con- Continued on page 5 Pr~ v La: Morr of a was1 that valll! thOUi prep spec he s< ques tiber econ that won WI that mon buy Pre~ the our desi: ~shot we, as I wor 1 mo\li a jo of 1 trer bee; for ticu sug thot mo1 sho ear othi rea edu art: \ cei adt thr fra pa1 ( Kr thl tiiJ W€ of ch di: R( lit ne Sil di m lo fo B le si ol d ti Il F tt v \

.. OONOOBDJBJNSIS, Ma11 16) 1980 . I President Morris: I ValUe Of Liberal Arts _ by ELLEN van DYKE Last Wedilesday President Morris gave a talk on the value of a liberal arts education. It was evident throughout his t~lk that he strongly believes in the- value of such an education even though _it will not· necessarily prepare a student to enter a specific job upon graduation. As he said ''no one really raises the question ab_out the need for a liber\al arts education until the economic situati·on gets bad. At that point people get fidgety and wonder what use it is.'' While acknowledging the fact · that we need to get jobs to earn money for \without money to buy bread, one can't eat,'' President Morris emphasized the need for a job which fulfi:Hs o11r individual life styles and desires. He believes that. we ~should be concerned .with how we can fulfill oursel'ves better · as people through the kind of work we do, He sees people moving beyond simply wanting a job to wanting a certain kind of life. He said \I think that trend is very important, because to move beyond asking for a job, to asking for a par- ticular kind of job is already suggestive of giving some thought to the fact that life is more than money.\ College should not be just a means of earning more money. There are other more vitally important reasons for getting a college education, especially a liberal arts education. \College a liberal arts college, can provide training for a working career. It can give you an eaucation that moves you into a medical-college, into a law school, or into a business school, or into a museum.\ This is not all a liberal arts education can do for a person. Morris discussed what more he feels can be gained by such an education. ''First of all, of caurse, we place whatever -~ is we learn within a time per1od. That is to say we make you read Plato and Machiavelli and the rest. But why read Plato? Why read Machiavelli? \-\(hat's the point of worrying about Socrates? Socrates tells us something about liberal arts education . which is probably pretty im- portant and I leave you with a thought to ponder about. What Socrates had said- it prepared him for was his death. Why read such literature? Why have you read literature of the past? Why study political systems of the ' world?Why study a pure tongue without concern for its ap- plication? We learn to un- derstand what it is that makes us tick. My question about Seerates is not a purpos_eless question. The question will make you wonder, will make you wonder fundamentally about yourself. It is this that can make the liberal arts im- portant; wondering about your society, the world you live in, and yourself. In making you ponder about your own value, the value of your society, you have a different kind of sense of . . . More From Blake Continued from page 4 ceive metaphorically, therefpre adults can articulate desires through songs that are but fragmented memories towards partial desires. provided some ideas for the modern artist, the works of art were not as significant to the history of his own period. Rosenblum chided Blake for not concerning his work with any of the contenaporary concerns of the late eighteenth and early ~ineteenth centuries. For those who participated, the Symposium presented as comprehensive an approach to Blake as could have been desired. William Blake as Poet, Printmaker, and Painter was illuminated for his audience as carefully as his own · poetical works were for an earlier audience. what it is to enter into the world, to enter into the real world outside. But w}lat kind of per- ception of reality that yau are dealing with can fundamentally be very valuable. Reality is really in t}le thought of the sense of the self that you wiU have as you go out into that world.\ ''I think that a liberal education forces us to ask some questions about ourselves, about our setting, and about our · values. And that's very im· portant. What I'm saying I know sounds kind of trite and old hat, but I think it's very · important to see that there's a. fundamental difference of what I like t0 call a life's work a:n(l simply _ working. In working simply for the sake of working, simply for the sake of earning one's daily bread, one is committing oneself to ab- solutely nothing beyond earning mo~;~ey. Now that in itself is, I think, self-destructive. I think it's important that we see ourselves in a much broader perspective,so that even if the work we get into only earns us money, nevertheless we can see that there is some point in it that we can put earning that money to. That is to say we should be able to see ourselves in a broader perspective than a daily life with nothing at all to rule ourselves except for the television set which we turn on · from the time we come home to the time we go to bed. The difference between letting one's job dictate what one is and letting one's self act out one's own interests is, I tqjnk, of greatest importanqe; the dif- ference between someone who expresses one's self in work and being a person who allows the work to dictate what he is. What I am suggesting is that a liberal education helps us to do the former and avoid the latter. It helps us to do this because it helps us to keep up with our career, what we are doing. In terms of the question of how we want to live our life, that question doesn't come automatically. The question about our life's work. .. doesn't come without some reflection. I think it comes more easily when one has looked at the broader aspects of his culture, the broader aspects of one's values, whic;;h you can get through a liberal arts education. It will come without it but it comes more easily with ~t. And I think it is always important that we know what kinds of questions to (According to Professor Kroeber), Blake wrote songs . that were not singable. In his time, the forms of vocal music were determined by the words of the song itself~ His songs are charged with metaphor as distinct from the songs of Robert Burns, who adapted the literary and. mythological to the needs of popular and communal singers. Burns' songs are in- dividualized, and , set in the mode of neighborliness and local interchange. There is no focus on self or self-alienation. Burns recognized the legitimacy of sentiment and the ·'respectability\ of bawdy singing. CamP Union '80 Professor Robert F. Gleckner of Duke University's English department presented a lecture titled, \Voice of the Ancient Bard,\ on Friday night. Professor Gleckner dealt ex- tensively with images in \The Voice of the Ancient Bard,\ and \The Little Black Boy.\ Edward J. Rose, Professor of English at the University of Alberta, lectured on Blake's \Windows into Eden.\ He dwelled at length on Blake's use of Biblical imagery, a~d the idea that if we strip away our distorted, experience-bound vision of the world, we will be able to see through to the other side of the wil}dow--to Jerusalem (Blake's Paradise). Robert Rosenblum, Professor of Art History at NYU, gave the Walter C. Baker Lecture in Art and Civilization, \On Blaki:! and the Origins of Modern Art.\ Professor Rosenblum proffered that although Blake may have *Roller Skating * Live Music · *Great Food- WRUC-sponsored \lost Highway Ramblers'' plus _other special guests and Jerry·Jeff Walker :Next Saturday May 24 h .. - ALL DAY Page IS : I President Morris on a liberal arts education. ask about ourselves, about our about the country as a whole, work, and about our life.\ we ane only concerned about President Morris went on to stress the importance of being able to distance oneself from one's work. A person needs a broad background in order to achieve that distance because a person who is trained only to work can only ask narrow questions about work. A person trained only to work knows only enough to accomplish a task and not enough to question what he is doing and what his work is ·all about. \And through this proc:ess of understanding, understanding which means putting distance between one's self and one's job, one is able to comprehend and understand the environment and one's place in the world.\ Under- standing ourselves and our rcla.tionship to both our work and our en\lironment helps us to better· express ourselves through our work. However, President Morris · is not claiming that a liberal arts education will provide us with that com.plete understanding. He said \I do not claim for the liberal arts that they can necessarily rriake us know who we are but they do provide the means by which we can ponder the past, by which we are enabled to look at the future, and to be aware of the meaning of self-discipline in what we are doing.\ In speaking of the ne~d to ,WJ.derstand ourselves and our world, President Morris spoke of what he sees as the problem of specialization. \One of the problems that I see very strongly in this country right now is the problem of specialization. This is not a problena that is simply related to the problem of ~arrowness. One of the consequences of specialization is not only narrowness in terms of one's own self . . . but it is also narrowness in terms of the way one perceives one's life within society. I am struck by the fact that we have beconae an in- creasingly special interest society. Oqr concerns are with narrow interests -rather than broad interests . . . we are not really concerned any . more whether there should be abortion or should not be abortion. We are concerned whether· or not Ford .or General Motors ought or ought not to have special kinds of (air potlution controls). What I am saying here is that our special group of concerns arises very m·uch out of the special con- cerns with our narrow existence. Now I'm not saying that liberal aits education will necessarily broaden our existence, but what I do say is that a concern about history, our values, our sense of our~ selves, our intellectual history will bring us a much deeper sense of the totality ·of our ex- perience and will help us see what it is that we have to fit ourselves into rather than force us to think that the world we have to live in has to fit itself to us.\ In his final words President Morris tried to stress the fact that a liberal arts education does not specifically prepare us for a job but it does give us the adaptability and the inventiveness to find the job that is right for us.\ I think that whatever you do when you leave Union, I do feel good-that with a deeper sense of yourself, and here lies the key, you will be more inventive in finding the many job opportunities. That, I think is the key, that in- ventiveness to see that there is a manifold array of things to do out there, other than medicine, law, and business.\ · \One other point; that is, it is very unlikely that what you are training yourself to do now will be of any use to you·whatsoever after you have been out of here a year. Now that's a sobering thought and a good thought which ought to suggest that you ought to be open to the possibilities for change and adapt. Here, I think, is the re!'ll merit of a liberal arts education. It gives you the kind of adaptibility because it gives you the kind of breadth to move more easily . . . naore easily because you are adaptable, you are an adaptible person, because you are willing to use whatever you can to adapt.\ . WHAT:S TUE I/CI7MATE +. LE\Ttt.R WC5RP FO/Z. THE MOVIIE THAT fvVJUfHS OFF? . ©1980 BRJGHTON PRODUCTIONS, INC~ /

-' ·Page 6 OONOOBDIENEIIS, May 16, 1980 .. CultUre Alburn Review: 'Elllpty Glass' by ROBERT FOX Pete Townshend, writer, singer, performer, a driving .force behind a legendary band, and composer of the famQus rock opera \Tommy has recently added a solo album to his list of accomplishments. \Empty Glass\ is another in the line of new albums with the word ''glass!' in the titfe. When faced with the choice., and the price of albums, I didn't have to think twice, and J have no regrets about purchasing \Empty Glass\ over the oth~r \glass\ albums. Townshend isn't trying to be something he's not; he doesn't play hero. His lyrics speak for themselves, but are not closed to interpretation: \lam a human being, I don't believe aU the things I'm seeing, I've nowhere to hide anymore, I'm losing my way.\ Both sides of the album contain five songs, yet side one is almost seven minutes shorter. \Rough Boys,\ the first song, is a real rocker, the kind that makes you want to get up ··and dance. The song is dedicated to Townshend's ,children and to the Sex Pistols. n is followed by a much slower number, \I Arii An Animal \ in which Townshend raises' his voice, without any sign of strain, higher than many of his contemporaries would ever dare. Townshend SOUI\dS quite confid~nt on \Let My .Love Open The Door\: \I have the only key to your heart, you're so lucky I'm around, let my love open the door.\ He comes down hard on critics in \Jools and Jim''; \Typewriter tappers, you're all just crappers,\ but like he says, \Anyone can have. an opinion.\ \Keep On Working,\ the first song on the second side, has gotten some air time on the radio. \Rabbit\ Bundrick shows his progress on the keyboards on \A Little Is Enough,\ a song about the pursuit of love. The title track is a strange song, but goocl. Some of the verses do not have enough harmonic or melodic variation for my taste, but other verses are beautiful. In \Gonna Get Ya,'' Townshend employs a word association technique: ·\I'm walking ... Stand. still, Soft talking ... I'm thrilled,. Not chasing ... Lady.\ Overall, Pete Townshend appears as the talented diverse individ~al he is. His' writing keeps hsteners at a distance but it doesn't baffle the~ completely. His mn:sic is solid rock 'n roll, he plays guitar and synth~si~er expertly, and he ccm smg with the best of them. Also, on the inner dust jacket, Townshend offers a bit of philosophy from Avatar Meher Baba. Whether Pete lives his ~ife by this philQsophy is an mteresting question, but he seems to have a satisfied smile ~n the back of the albutn cover. \Desire for nothing· except · desirelessness, hope for nothing except to rise above all hopes, want nothing and you will have everything.\ -. Watch the.Stars Come OUt Twisted Te-rms by Chris Dratch by DAN FRE!FELD It's a Saturday afternoon and you're waiting.foF-the•fraternit-y parties to make the evening a blast. But it's only the af- ternoon; maybe crack the books? Forsooth, forsooth, I could be burned at the stake for even thinking about such blasphemies. What do I think this is? College. It just so happens that the finest planetarium in the capital district area is located only three blocks from campus. In fact, the Schenectady ~useum Planetarium, equipped with a Spitz A3P star projector, a 9.1 meter dome, and more optical gadgets and gizmos than you knew existed, is the largest and most sophisticate~ sky theater within a 100 mile radius pf our area. Public planetarium programs are presented every weekend throughout the year with ad- ditional programs added during school vacations and the swnmer. Topics Clliinge every eight to ten weeks and generally include information on the current night sky as well as a detailed look at a specific topic in astronomy. Topics range from Einstein to black holes, and the milky way to the man from· outer space. This past weekend I had the pleasure of visiting the Planetarium and viewing \The Universe of Dr. Einstein.\ The performance was entertaining, exciting, mind boggling, and (bite my tongue) educational. The show was a tribute to this gentleman who totally revolutionized the way we think about our Universe. This was the first time I had been in a Planetariwn since a grade school class trip, and I had completely forgotten how much fun they are. The Schenectady Museum Planetarium has an intimate · atmospher-e, · and special character you'll-sense the moment the sky darkens. Or, more accurately, as the lights d . ~ un. / Performances /are given every Saturday and Sunday at ' 2:30 and 3:30 in the afternoon and Thursday evenings at 7:30. A young people's show is of- fered Sundays at 1:30. Admission is only $1.00. -....The Pianetarium, ' unlike a movie, is something that keeps changing and growing, and can be frequented again and again. Maybe I'll see you there· this weekend for the \Spring Sky Spectacular.\ ANT n._-_ DANS -· n· __ HECAB ----U [l NYUSN [l [l_-_ [l NI~CIP n' _____ . sKURNT · n __ · ___ - FUR REs n -·- -. - [l RUGFIDEAL . ll . . - -.------,--- LABLOLEVL Y- - _· ~U- - - -· .......:_ [l[l[l[l[l[l[l[l [l[l[l[l[l Behind The Scenes: 'Butterflies Are Free' .. by MELISSA GOLD Austin is Mitch Barucbin. Mitch in order to be and remain free. has performed in \Twin In relation to the play, this Tuesday, May 20,'will begin Menaechmi,\ and has worked straggle for. freedom can be the first of five delightfully . on the crew for \Robber seen in all of the characters. entertaining nights for all, in Bridegro6m.\ The Stage Don is tl\ying to break away the Nott, with the opening of the Manager is Demetra Pon- from his mother's careful student directed product.ion of tisakoS, who appeared in \Tom control. Jill is so frantiCally \Butterflies Are Free.'' The Paine,\ \Robber Bridegroom,\ trying to be .what she thinks is. play, written during the 1960's \Six: Characfers,\ and \Three free, that ,she is as far away by_ LeQnarcl, Gersh~, is being Sisters. \She will also -be seen in,:- from freedom as she could directed by a junior, Tom the ·upcoming prodl!ction· of possibly get. The way these two Farre11. - \You're A Good Man, Charlie- people and their lives intersect, There are only four Brown.\ is basically the story. As far as characters in the play: Jill Tom Farrell is a familiar face the other characters are con- Tanner, a free spirited young in Union Theatre. He has ap- l:etned, Don's ·mother doesn't, girl, is being played b'y Connor peared in num~rous produc- until the end, know where her O'Brien: Connor was involved in tions at Ullion including \Death freedomis,.and Ralph wants the productions of \Death of a of a Salesman,'' \A Man for AU freedom to work .the way he Salesman,\ ''A Man for All Seasons,\ 1 'Feiffer's J>eople,\ wants to.~' · Seasons,\ \Tom Paine,\ \Tom Paine,\ ''Robber \Butterflies Are Free'' will \Robber Bridegroom,\ and Bridegroom;\ \Six Charac- play Tuesday, May 20 through \The Fourposter.\ Opposite ters,\ \The Three Sisters,\ and Satutday, May 24, in the Nott _ · Connor is John Gains, as Don has acted as stage manager for Memorial Theatre. Curtain Baker. John helped in the set ''Ten Ifttle.Indians.\ From this. tinie is 8:30p.m. each evening;- design and constructio,n or ex:tenswe llst, we can be sure to Tjcket~ g1> on sale Mondav. ~ay \Tom Paine\ and '~'The ··expect a finely. directed· 12, at the Nott box: office, Tryout\ and was seen in \The production. o! this comedy. ~· • from 1 -to -5 p.>m. daily. The Three Sisters.'' Mrs. Baker, - ~n desc!Ibmg wha~ the story phone number-is 370-6153. The Don's mother, is being played was about, Tom sa1d: \It's a co.st is $1.50 for students and $3 by Susan Wiener. Susan was play about freedom, how one for general admission. also cast in \Tom Paine.\ truly finds freedom- and the Reserved seats will be Playing the part of R?lph lengths to which people wilLgo available. cui C< At the I conscious Internatic evening Richard Kenny N1 For th' Richard perlormi1 solos, dm alongs fr ·lsi -Sal Br 2nc M< Sh p.r Di! I To sp1 liberty face h1 persecu leading coming tomorrc is a mar stand UJ for hun where i restrict, Mr. fascina Josept minist Pavel Irish-lo Englisl exi1ed1 to a t< border partici demon stratio: invasic this w: lecturE Sa -Me Tu w~ T~

CO'NOOBBlli/.NBlS,_ Jlag 1.6J i,980 . . . Page '1 .. - cultur~· Coffeehouse ·Coming At the conclusion of political -and American folk. music, for consciousness week, Amnesty - audiences from the mid~ west to International wiU present an the northeast. After s~tt;ling in evening of folk music with Albany in 1961, they have Richard and Lee Wilki-e and concentrated their per- Kenny Needleman. formances in their area. For the past twenty years, Richard is a professor of Richard and Lee have been Rhetoric and Communications performing a combination of at SUNY . Lee is an Avon solos, duets, dialogues and sing- Representative and president of alongs from traditional British tt1 e i r n e i g h b or h o o d ' s association. They are members -of the Hudson River Sloop Clearwater, Pick'n and Sing'n Gather'9, and Friends of Sing OutJ. Kenneth ~Needleman is .a senior ~t Union College. He is a member of the Amnesty Chapter and will ,perform topical folk songs of· the \fifties and sixties. RiChard -and Lee- Wilke perform at Amnesty Theater. . - ~ \ Little Lamb w:!'l.o made thee Dost thou know who made thee Gave thee life.& bid thee feed. By the stream & ()'er the mead; Gave thee clothing of delight, Softest clothing W()Oly bright; Gave thee such a tend;er V()iCe, Making all the vales rejoice! Little Lamb wbo Inade thee Dost thou know who made thee. Little Lamb I'll tell thee, Little Lamb I'U ten thee! , He is called by thy name, For he calls himself a Lamb: He is meek & he is mild, He became a little child: I a child & thou a lamb, We are called by bts name. Little Lamb God bless thee. Little Lamb God bless thee. --W.M. Bla/ke Glee -Clubs E,nd Year _ Thursday May 15 ·1st Act: Rich .seaman, Ann Palumbo, Paul - Saba·tino, \Marc Goldman, Mike Zanta, Jason Brandt, & Rkh Altman 2nd Act: Richmond Revival MC: Danny -La:coff Showtimes 9 & 11, Tickets on-sale in Carnegie at a p.m. on Thursciay . - by JOANNE STEIN · The last Men's and Women's Glee Club Concert of this year will~ held in Glens Falls,May 28. The singers will perform Vivaldi's Gloria, Bach's Motet VI, and parts of Handel's Messiah. · Elections for next year's officers were held last week. The results are as follows for the Men's Glee Club: President - ' Randy Atwater; Vice- President - Wayne Penazek; Secretary - Gary Turer; Treasurer - Alan Swine; Con- educational and fun. The men cert Managers • Mitch Chess bave an outstanding reputation. and Andy Gavens; Publicity · Their exchange concerts in- Robert Penny and Jim Jones; elude Smith, Wheaton and Librarian - Alan Binkow; Rutgers. They have also sung in Historian - David Van Wess. the Harvard Festival of Men's The results for the Women's -Choruses and in the IMC in Glee Club are: President-Maria \Worcester. The Women's Glee Palasits; Vice-President - Club bas five concerts, m- Cathy Rusik; Treasurer- Robin duding RPI, Homecoming and Hollander; CQncert Manager · caroling planned for the fall. Georgine Pitcher;. Publicity · Corrine. Smith; Librarian Anyone inteFested in joining Roseann Miller. the Glee Club should contact Both Glee Clubs are always Randy Atwater at 393-3134 encouraging more_ people . to (Men's Club) or Maria Palasits join. The Clubs are soc1al, at 37()...6809 (Women's Club). Big flrothers/Big Sisters:· Dissident -speaks Tomorrow Thea,ter Here ' - by STEVE WIL~_ To speak out in the name of liberty in Soviet Russia is to face harassment, exile, and persecution. Pavel Litvinov, a leading Soviet dissident, is coming to speak on campus tomorrow, Friday, May l6. He is a man who had the courage to stand up for his beliefs and call for human rights in a country where individuality is severely restricted. When Mr. Litvinov returned to Moscow in 1972, he fotiDd it impossible to obtain work in his field, or a residence permit to live with his wife and two · children. He had been blacklisted by the Soviet Government who controlled all avenues of employment. He managed· to get private jobs tutoring physics and translating scientific works from .... English. banquet room. The lecture will be held earlier at 1:30 p.m. in SS 11-5. Amnesty International is sponsoring Mr. Litvinov's appearance, and that night is having a coffeehou~ featuring Richard and Lee Wilkie. This duet combines a mixture of traditional British and American Folk Music and promises to be very special. - On Saturday, the Capital District Chapter of Amnesty International is holding an International Human Rights Symposium. Pavel Litvinov will be present along with Professor Sharlett and Professor Reynolds. They will discuss· Big Brothers-Big Sisters of Schenectady County, a non· profit organization serving children in Schenectady County,. will present a benefit dinner-theatre event on Friday, May 16, and Saturday, May 17 at the Ramada Inn in Schenectady. ''Something Theatrical,\ a company from Hudson, New York, will stage the .comedy \The Owl and the Pussycat.\ Tickets for the event are $16 and may be purchased at the Ramada Inn, at the Big Brothers-Big Sisters office at 924 Albany Street in Schenec- tady, and from Board members of Big 'Brothers-Big Sisters. Seating is not reserved, and tickets should be purchased in advance. Doors open at 6 p.m. The top sirloin dinner will be served at 7 p.m., followed by the show at 8:30 p.m. · Mr. Litvinov's , life is fascinating. The grandson of Joseph Stalin's foreign minister--Maxim Litvinov, Pavel is a tall, husky, rather Irish-looktllg man who speaks English well. In 1968, be was exiled to Siberia for five years, to a town on the ManchUrian border, for being one of seven participants ·in the Red Sql\are demonstratjon. The demon-_. stration protested the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, and this will be the subject of the _ During this time, Pavel began to recommence· his human rights activities. On Dec. 5, 1973, be was given the choice by the government of permanent exile in Siberia or leaving Russia. He chose the latter arid today teaches physics in Tarrytown, New York. - human rights in the Soviet U.M.O.C. is coming lecture. · ~~-~~~---~-~· WRUC ( .. ~~ ) 9.0. 9 f m • st.e reo · His leCJture will be held in connection with Professor Robert Sharlett's Eastern European politics class. It is open to anyone interested. Those wishing to meet Pavel Litvinov can come to a social hour at 5 p.m. in the Pub's · Album at Ten Saturday Todd Rudg,ren Radio Sped a I -Monday t=tash and the Pan ''Lights in the Night\ Tuesday Point Blank '!The Hard Way\ Wednesday Daryl Hall \Sasred Songs\ Thursday ~to be announced · -Union and Eastern Europe, as well as in China and Taiwan. \Wealth &_\ Wisdom' 1 8 p.m. Stravss Lounge, Thurs. May 15. Open to the public. 7:30 group meditation for TM practitioners-;-- -Watch for details A·MN:ESTY INTERNATIONAL . . . prese~ts Coffeehouse ~n Evening of Folksongs' with Richard & lee Wilke Kenny Needleman . 8 p.m. Friday May 16th Old Chapel Adm i'ssion $1 - ;: ,- .. \

Page 8 OONCOBDlBNSlS, May 11, 1980 roun am ', ~ Professor Rudy V. Nydegger Nydegge~.· Honored Rudy V. Nydegger, associate _professor of psycholog.y at Unioa College, has received a New York State Psychological Association Award for out- standing research. The award presentation was made in New York City Saturday, May 10. The study for which Nydegger · . received the award is entitled \The Effects of Information Processing Complexity and . Interpersonal Cue Availability on Strategic Play in a Mi?ted · Motive Game.\ His work was published. in the March 1980 edition of the Journal of Per- sonality. .Nydegger's research involved the development of a computer simulation model of a person pJaying the so-called Prisoner's Dilemma Game, which places players in a limited outcome bargaining situation. Subjects · varying in their capacity to perceiv-e and process in- formation of differing com- plexity played the game when they had diff.erent types and amounts of information about the other player. While the subjects thought they were playing against each other, Nydegger said, they were ac- tually playing against the computer program. Results of the study suggested that \players who differ in their ability to process complex. in- formation actually use in- -formation about opponents· differently, and develop their strategies in different man- ners,'' Nydegger said. A member of the Union College- faculty since 1977, Nydegger is chairman of the Psychology Department. He received his Ph.D. in clinical psychology from Washington University in St. Louis,. Mo., and is a former. assistant professor of psychology at the Rice University in Houston. Nydegger is. the author of numerous technical reports and articles published in professional journals. Last September, he. was appointed a consulting editor of the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, with responsibility for manuscripts dealing with interpersonal relations and group proce~ses. Nydegger is also a faculty member of the Union College Board of Trustees, He and his family reside in Schenectady. Corporate Planning Thomas F. Purner Jr., president and chairman of the board of the Matthews Inter- national Corp. of Pittsburgh, Pa., will speak about corporate plann~ng at 4 p.m. Thursday, May 15, at Union College. Purner's talk, spon~ored by Union's . Institute. of Administration\ and Management, will be held in room 207, Bailey Hall. The public is welcome to attend. A graduate of Union College and Rutgers University, Furner is the sixth president of Mat- thews International since the firm was founded in Pittsburgh in 1850. He joined the company in 1966 as director of planning, a title he held previously with a division of Litton Industries. • Purner. was named chairman of the board at Matthews in 1976. Area Calendar DANCE May 19-Classes for African dancing will be held at the Studio for· Ethnic Dance in Albany at 7:30. Traditional tribal style dance with live drumming accompaniment will be featured. For further in- formation, caB 465-5503. May - 23-25--The World Premier of the May O'Donnell Homage to Shlva 'will open the Dance Festival 1980 at the Woodstock Play-house at 8:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. Sunday. For further information, call 679- 2012. FILM May 19-\The Big Picture: New York State of Art\... look at the remarkable exhibition of THEATRE May 18-23--0bie Award winning playwright Adrienne Kennedy will .present her new musical A Lancashire Lad. The show wHl premiere on Sunday, May 18th, at 2 p.m. in the Main Theatre of the Egg (The Per- forming Arts Center of Albany's Empire Staie Plaza). Sub- sequent performances at the Egg are scheduled far May 19-23 at 10 a.m. and May 23 and 24 at ·• 7:30'p.m. modern art held at the New ' w 'I h & York State Museum in 1977 with ···.• . . ·e 0 . t • .. · ' ·. • . commentaries. The film will be held at 12p.m. in Meeting Room d 6 on the Concourse of the W. · .. · •1. S· · • • .Q ·.m• . Empire State Plaza. For fur- ther information, call 473..:7521. ·''Wealth and Nlsdom~', what May 20--Evergreen, 1934 • is considered by most to be the musical starring iJ essie Mat- · goal of life, wiU be the topic of. thews and Sonnie Hale, will be ·discussion at the Union College shown at2 and 8 p.m. in Albany ~ TM Cluh meeting tonite Publie-Libra~y 161 Washington . (Thursday, May 15) at 8 p.m. in Avenue. For further in- Strauss Lp.unge. The guest · formation, call 449-3380. ; speaker will b~ Rpbert M. · May 20-Travel to Quebec on Ornansky, a teacher of the your lunch hour by ·seeing the - Transcendental Me4itation · films All Ears to Gaspe and technique and successful en- Loyalist Country at 12:15 at the trepreneur. Drawing from the Albany • Public Library, 161 ideas expressed by MahariShi . Washington Avenue. For fur- Mahesh Yogi, founder of the ther· information, call 449-3380. Transcendental Meditation and LECTURE • T]\1-Sidhi program and success May 18-H. Wayne Trimm, art . principles outlined by nt>ted editor of THE CON- ex:pects on Success .such as SERVATIONIST,. will discuss Napolean Hill, Dale Carnegie, THE ROLE OF THE J.P. Getty and others-, Omansky ILLUSTRATOR AS THE IN- will discuss spiritual TEI;{PRET~R OF - THE· · developm,en~ as the. ba$is for NATURAL WORLD at 3 p.m. at . material success. the Albany Public Librar·y, 161 . The meeting is open to anyone Washington Av, enue. His talk interested in achieving · \WEALTH and WISDOM.\ about tlie work of Albany artists Gertrude ar:td Dorothy Lathrop Those who~ve been instructed in will follow the Frientis of the the'RM technique are invited to Library business meeting and a group meditation before the election of officer~. For further meeting at 7:30 p.m. i-nformation, contact· Fran Lewis at 449-3380 (mornings) or ~69-9317 (home).. MUSIC ASME Award John Corey, a candidate for June graduation from . Union College with both a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in mechanical engineering, is first place winner of the recent American Society of Mechanical Engineers Region Ill student paper contest. Corey Js the son of Mr. and Mrs. Alexander Corey af R.D. 2, Rexford, N.Y. He was recently awarded the College's Mor- timer F. Sayre Prize,. given to the senior with the best potential for furthering the ideals of the mechanical engineering profession. · Corey and senior mechanical engineering major Kathleen Etzel o.f Monroe, N.Y., represented Union at the student paper contest, whieh was held April 11 and 12 at SUNY. Buffalo. More than 20 students from schools such as the University of Penn&ylvania, Co-.rnell, Villanova, and Clarkson presented papers on their senior projects and theses. Corey's winning entry was entitled \A New Bobsled Suspension System''. He described an innovative tor- sional suspension system which provides greater bobsiled control and stabi1ity. . . . Corey has yorked at Union with David G. Ullman.,. assistant professor· ofP mechanical engineering and co-folillder, of the American BobSled Research Association. • · This winter, Corey . will participate with .14 other regional whmers in the national ASME competition . ' Sigma Chi Clambake ''Spring term 1969'was kicked off by a spectacular clambake sponsored by Sigma Chi. Since the riot of 1875, this was the first campus-wide fun<Jtion of Union's 175 year history.\ Concordiensis--May 19.69 - ' In the past 12 years since its humble inception withonly200 participants and lOkegs of beer, the Sigma Chi Charity Clam- bake has grown to become Continued on page 9 May 21-The May meeting of the Capital District Jazz Society will feature a visit, talk and \rap .session'' with multi- instrumentalist Jimmy Giuffre at 8 p.m. at the Schenectady County Public Library auditorium. Mr. Giuffre is presently living in West Stock- bridge, Mass. and plays·· regularly with his quartet at the Stockbridge Station Restaurant. For further in- formation, contact Bruce Allen at 438w7382. J.S.O. Hillel Shabbat- Dinner TALENT SHOW May 21--Cafe Zuriel will present an amateur night from 7:30-11 p.m. The Schenectady YWCA invites one and all to bring your talents and perform. Please contact Carolan Lavallee at 374~3394 to set. up an audition in advance. Tbe show will take place at the YWCA at 44 Washington Avenue, Schenectady. For further in- formation, contact Bestsy Blades-Zeller at 374-3394. Friday May l6 _.at the Kosher Kitchen at 6 Rachel Waulk -will speak on Na:zi War ·criminals Ma!<e reservations by calling Rich at 6958 or Darrel at 6451 by Wed. 464 State St. we deliver Schenectady '-<I 374-1888 Students should pick up their pre-registration materials in the Registrar's Office on Monday, May: 19. AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL presents Cou.rse_ requests are due not later than Monday, May 26. RUBELLA ON THE RISE Public 'health officials say they are concerned because the rate of rubella (German measles), which has been linked to birth defects, has in· creased among those in the 20:24 year old ag.e group. Students, staff and faculty of childbearing age requesting additional information may stop by the Health Service between the hours of 3 p.m. and 7 p.m. every Saturday and Sunday. Pavel Litvii1ov -Soviet Dissident -Human Rights Activist Friday May 16, 1980 Lecture 1 :30 p.m. S.S. llS Sod~ I Hour-: 5 00 p.m. Pub Banquet Room -Free Admission Coni Union's the ye \Bake'' more I before, travaga $1,500 t total of proceed Wall~:~cE the mi1 local ct Some College never b now b1 \How 1 for the swer to easy on needed. First ($6 at t easypa you m Center nur:llbel such a1 and co soakin! playing softball rayg a music! , .enougl charita buying more! As tl close, c home, an E~ returni music, p.m. u The I ar:ehop from la perforn record• They Union( start wl will do througl

., al of al e of 00 9 Contiilued from .page 8 Union's largest social event of the year. Each year, the \Bake'' has succeS$ively raised more money tllan the. year before, with last year's ex- travaganza sending mote than $1,500 to charity for .a 12-:year total of over $70_!!9., This year's proceeds will be split between Wallace Village (a center .for the minimally retarded) and local charities. Some members of the pnion College community who have never been to the '!Bake\ may now be asking themselves, \How can I help raise money for these charities?\ The an- swer to this question is not an easy one; furt~er expbmation is needed. First, you must buy a $5 ticket ($6 at the door), but that is the easy part. On Saturday, May 17, you must go to the Girling Center and participate in a number of grueling events, such as eating clams, chicken, and corn on the cob; such as soaking down the suds; .such as playing frisbee,· volleyball or softball; such as catching some rayg and -an earful of great music! And as if that weren't 1 .enough to deter the most charitable of fund raisers from buying a ficket, there is much more! As the afternoon draws to a close, one barely has time to go home, shower, change and do an ES 20 problem pefore returning to the House f{)r more music, beer and dancing from 9 p.m. until-? The Brothers of Sigma Chi at:e hoping.to make a comeback from last year's j:lismal ,34-keg perfgrmance and break the record •of 40. They would like to appeal to Union College students to please start with the easy part, and we will do our best to h~lp you through the rest. roun am us West Point concrete canoe St :o· . n- . e :B· . 0. ··a· . ·t. . . races. Fourteen schools were represented, including Penn I State, Carnegie Mellon, Case :F. . . o· a ts Western, and Cornell. Union's • ·. · ·. · · • · paddlers turned in an out- The Union College Stone Boat Club has completed another successful season of designing, building, and ra-cing ·concr~te . · canoes, As~istant ProfeSsor o£ Civil Engineering Thomas K. Jewell announced. At the recent Westf Point concrete canoe races', Union finished second in overall team standings. Design and construc•ion advances allowed the building of a canoe that weighs only 90 po·unds, approximately 60 pounds lighter than any othei· canoe encountered at racing meets, Jewell said. A weight of 90 pounds. for a 19 foot canoe is competitive with equivalent length aluminum or fiberglass canoes. Capitalizing on sound design and training, the Stone Boat Club members picked . up · . several trophies at the two racing meets in which they p~J-rticipated. , The first race, at Green Lake State Park orf Saturday, .A;pril 19, was sponsored by Syracuse University. West Point, Union, and Hudson Valley Community College rounded out the field. standing performance and finished second, with 170 points, to Carnegie Mellon, . with 19<l points. _Hudson Valley Com- munity ·College was third with 80 points. Tom Cummings '81 and Kormony put together an outstanding finish to beat a strong Ca.rnegie Mellon team in the men's division. The other three teams ... Jane Webb and Tessier in tile women's division, Jewell and Perrin in the faculty division, and Torn Webb '81 and Jane Webb in the mixed division -- finished in second -place behind Carnegie Mellon. Next year's Stone Boat Club president will be Tom Webb. The club hopes te host a ~ace and build two new canoes next year, Jewell said. -Bob-sled Successful A four-man bobsled designed and built by Union College mechanical engineering students recently completed six successful half-mile runs at Mt. Van Hoevenberg, Lake Placid. Built by students of David G. Ullman, assistant professor of mechanical engineering at Union and co-founder of the American Bobsled Reseal'ch Association (ABRA), the sleek, · - aerodynamically designed sled negotiated even the difficult \Zig Zag?' curve with ease. \The sled was .easy to control and extremely smooth,\ ac•,- strumentation p Ullman said. Driving the sled was Bill Hickey, president of NATBOB (the associati<m which governs national bobsledding), .and Union students Ian Hart, Robert . O'Connor, Robert Beard, ~rtd Barry Miller completed the \teargs\ w:hich. made the trial runs,. In trial runs made last year, ABRA's sled proved difficult to control, overturning in the ''Zig Zag\ curve and spilling another time in the finish curve. Since then, adjustments were made ·to the steering ratio (the relationship of wheel .movement to runner movement), and the sled was lowered, correeting the earlier pro}?lern. . In a related matter, Ullman reported that the Union College .chemistry and Mechanical Engineering departments aided NATBOB by developing tests, performed in resp?nse to ~n official protest, wh1ch can In- dicate the presence of silicone, on bobsled runners. Inter· national rules state that runners must be free of certain unac• ceptable chemical substances at the time of a race, Ulill,lan said. ABRA hopes t() assist NAT-. BOB in similar ventures in the future, he added. Persons interested in the bo-bsled project may contact Ulbnan at the College for details. Contributions to ABRA may be sent to Robert Nelson at the First National Bank of ·Scotia, 1476 Balltown Road, Schenectady, N.Y. 12309. ) ) J Olez Pierre ''Too'' 5 ) ) s ) ) ) ·Specializing fn French Dlisine ~ SeiVin·g lunch ) Mon- :Fri . ) ) ) ) ) 11 :30 - 2:00 ) • • Serving Dinner Mon-Fri 5-10 p.m~·: Sat 5 - 11 p.m. ) Closed Sunday · Out of four events, Union won first place in three, and second in the fourth. Student t~acers Mar}dngalls '80 and Tom Corey '80 won the men's division, and Jane Webb '83 and Kathy Tessier '83 won the women's division. Jewell and Jan Perrin, College photography .lab supervisor, won the faculty r·ace. Tessie~; and graduate student Dave Kormony. were edged out by Hud~on Valley Community College in -an ex- citing mixed race. , cording to Ullman, who: rode 1 d 5 brake. \Actually it looked like ·Erie B v 9 at Nott t. Sunday, April 27, the team competed at the seventh annua~ it was floating down the run.\ . Sc.hen_ ectody., N.Y. 377-6481 , While the sled appeared fast, it · 1 ) was not timed due to in- '\~$$~~~~~~~~~~~S:S:S:S:~S:S:~e:s::e:s::£::s::ss• ' YEAH I BUT WAITING 1-E.fs HOPE. FOR COUR.T TIM£ 15 AS ~CiTING AS WATCHING CHlCl<eN PARTS THAW. ~~ He'S AS DRY /l5 Wf. ARE. ...

, Page 10 OONOOBDJ~NSIS, May 16, 1980 clatlsifiet>s BULLETIN BOARD Roommate 'wanted-female · preferred. Interested in sharing · furnished. 2-bedroom a pt. Available immediately or for summer. Located dose to Union. Call Sue 377-3970. FitzHugh Ludlow T -shirts and beanies are on sale in the Student Affairs Office. Anyone inte.rested in being_an usher for Commencement please see Mike Andolina in the Student '\ffairs Office. r\11 ~raduates of Uni.on · c,,lJegl' who are intending to attend Albany Law School are eligible tu apply for the Saxt(m, P11rter & Speir Scholarships. • Applications are availabfe in the office of the Political • Science Department, and should·be returned by July 15 to •· Professor · Joseph Board, Department of Political · Science. All Seniors: Your Graduation announcements have arrived. Come and pick them up in the Student Activities office. Need summer housing? Sigma Phi has available rooms for reasonable rates. Call 382- 9225 for information. Share a large apartment which is available for summer ancbor fall sublet. Rent, in- cluding utilities, 80 ·dollars a month. All furniture is already available. Call Kathy or· Lisa, 374-0704 .. Senior Meeting May 21 at 11:30 'a.m. Memorial Chapel. On Thursday, May 15 (today) there will be a meeting at 7:00 in Carnegie Lounge (the cage) for all those interested in par- ticipating in Coffeehouse nex:t year. Election of new officers will be held. Thursday, May 15, 8 p.m., Strauss Lounge-\Wealth and Wisdom,\ lecture and discussion by Robert M. Omansky, teacher of Tran- scendental Meditation and successful entrepreneur, .sponsored by the TM Club: .All interested persons are invited. · Thurs., May 15, 7:30 p.m., S.t r a uss Lounge.:~G rou·p Meditption for all pe0ple who have been instructed in the Transcendental Meditation technique. PLACEMENT Career Confusion'! The Placement & Career Resources Office is now offering the Strong Campbell Interest Inventory for students who would like to clarify their career objectives .. You may pick up copies of the SCII at any time from the PCR Office. Processing costs are $3.00 for profile or $8.00 for profHe plus computer in- terpretation of scores. The PCR Office will provide help in in-. terpreting either form. Athleti<'-minded Women and Men-wanted to call on coaches, m uslc directors and civic nrganization.s. Exclusive territories available tn Rochester, Syracuse, Poughkeepsie and Springfield, Mass. areas. This is a professional, white-collar sales position. Applicants chosen should expect to earn first year commissions of $15,000 and up September through May. Training begins in August. To interview for one of these positions, call David Druschel . (Union '74 l 370-5932 after 6 p.m. Campus job opening for the summer-The Student Affairs · Office is looking for... a respon- sible student to wovk in the student mailrooin this summer. The job will begin on or around June 12. Included will be a short training program. The job will finish up approximately on September 13. Requirements: Able to work at least 3-4 hours per day, in- cluding Saturdays. Duties: Primarily forwarding mail. Interested persons should contact Diane Elliott or Mike Andolina, Office of Student Affairs, 2nd Floor Carnegie, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. r offices are cl<lsed for lunch Route 9 Clifton Park, 1 mile south of Routes 146 & 9 JUnction • Phone 371·3566 . • BRACKEN'S HAS QUALIFIED TECHNICIANS ON PREMISES TO REPAIR AND SERVICE All BRANDS OF BICYCLES AT REASONABLE PRICES •. ALL SERVICE WORK WARRANTEED SPRING TUNE UP SPECIAL $13.00 INCLUDES: • STRAIGHTEN BOTH FRONT I REAR WHEELS •LUBRICATE AND ADJUST FRONT I R£AR BRAKES • ADJUST WHEEl BEARINGS • ADJUST HEAD SETS BEARINGS • ADJUST CRANK BEARINGS ~ • CHECK TIRE PRESSURE ,_, • TIGHTEN SPOKES li LUBRICATE CHAIN --· • ADJUST CHAIN TENSION ALL REPAIR WORK AND SERVICE WORK IS WARRANTEED HAVE IT DONE RIGHT THE FIRST TIME ·I:C HAVE IT DONE AT BRACKEN'S • f,rorn 12-1 p...m.). LOST/FOlJND Lost: brown dog co Hat,~ c.ainflUS or Gillespie St. area. If found pl'ease call 372-6168. ' Found-One woman's watch, g::O'ld. Found at the Delta Phi Suitcase Party. Call 382-9159. ... .PERSONALS 'To: Ebony-Special K every morning:-from Clover. Sist~r ·Ellen- Your gorge~us. Sister Elten-See, I can to be nice! Sister Ellen- Yes, I should · kn()w. I'm right therefor your wrong the~efor the above is true because I said so (Sara Logic ) therefor dont argue~its futile therefor will you play racket- ball with me?! I I even might be persuad~dto let you win! (more irrerefutible Sara logic!) Dear Pauf. I hope that we have aired, and wor~ed-. out · • ltcave. ·your design on an . • Orientation . 80's T -shirt !_ besign_ a pattern for the 1-sh i rt and turn it into the .. Student Activities office by Thurs. May 22 . If selected win: Dinner for 2 at the Pub· Any questions, contact Dan Cuozzo, 372-0172, or any m·em ber of the Orient~tion Committee. most of our ''conflicts\. I 'know that we will always disagree on something, but that is to be expected. F,riends? Love, Rachel. P.S. Isn't it exciting to have a personal in two weeks.in , Paul S-Good to see you agaln! . Enjoy your terru :. \abroad\ A Bientot, love- and kisses, Priscilla ,and the gang a row? · Congratulations to the Crispy CriUers for surviving. L.E.B.-It's goiHg to . be a great weekend. I promise. VOTE CATHY JOHNSON . VICE-PRESIDENT-ADM!- · NISTRATION! ! ! ( . DecUcated, responsible, Motivated. -. Fronnie J-rve always ad• mired vou from afar Meet rn.e at the Skellar tonight at 9- ?? . K...;Thanks so much for the though~fulness!! ! S K-·Where'd you get · that outfit! Now that was classy! S J- Thanks for being you. But . . . when do I get rriy night of dancing til dawn? ! S.W;-No person shol:lld ev~r go through four years at Union without getting a personaL Here's yours!-.S:T. D-My .... What sexy curtain~ you have! K Summer is coming Baseball, Beaches, Carnivals, Outdoor Parties, FUN! ! · And at each of these events ~ PICTURES!! .:.. - Pictures of you and your friends. Yes, during · just B weeks of summer, rnore people use their cameras and more pictures are taken than the other 44 weeks of the year taken together. Ana yet most people don't know how to use their- camera, how to get the most out of their ca'mera. So their pictures. don't come out as flam- bouyantly as the events they were. taken at. THE SOLUTION- . . W~ednesday May 21, 8 p.m. the Union College Photq_Society will be running. a discussion ·semin-ar in the Strauss L6unge, Carnegie -Hall. The topic is: uHow to get the most, out of your summer pictures''- so, whether you .._own a Kodak Pocket 10 ln- stamatic or a Nikon ,F with a motor drive, come and join in our discussion. The progr.arp is ·geared toward all levels of knowledge, .and all are welcome. Refreshments Will be served before the discus~ion begins. Learn som~thing · new every day. This summer at Union College. At l 'nion. you'll find people ll'arning all yc.•ar round. l11is summn. l'nion College offers studt•nts of all agt·s an t.·xpanded program of undl'rgraduatt: and graduatt· <.:nurses in hoth day arid t:n-ning st.:ssions. ';. 6. anc.no Wl't·k tl'nns plus a spt:dal :\ wct:k course in introductory computer programming. This summer. vou can it:arn ah<mt anything from Art. and History. I<} Math and Computt'r Scil\ne<:. Courses :ttl· S(.'ht:duled in We'vt: been ht.'lping p<:oplc learn fur mure than 1\''5 }·cars, so there's no hftter place to lc:arn than l 1 nion. And there's no better time . than now. DAY COURSES Art French Mathematics ' German Mechanical Political Science Psychology Bio:logy Chemistry Computer Science English Hebrew Engineering Literature .Physics in Translation • Science and Math for Secondary School Teachers Sociology Spanish Stfltistics Administration and 1\fanagement Art ' ·EVENING COURSES Computer Science Health Studies Economics History Electrical Mathematics ·Music Philosophy- · Physics Biology ' Engine~riilg Mechanical· Political Scien\e English Engineering Special Non-Credit Mathematics Refresher: · Pre-Calculus Tennl Tt,rm II Tt·nn II Term IV 10 weeks ,:; weeks 6weeks <;weeks Term V 6 weeks Register in pt-tson or by maiL June J6~August 22 June 16-july 18 june 16~ july 2'i July 21-Augusi 22 July Z8-September 'i Academic ad\isor& arc availablt- from 6·8 PM on Wednesday. june lith. or by appointment. Please send me your catalogue of summer courses. '\;UIIll' (it\ ~t:tlt' UNION U~lon COllege, Gradua~e Studks and Continuing Education Wells Hnuse. I Union Ave:. Sc:hencctady, NY I 2308 ( 'H 8·) ;\70-6288 ., Psychology Sociology Statistics 6P by DOl The d professior to college that th swallawi begin to l from thE college s itoken, col to learn fi by profes were dov ·college : which to • surprise. basebaUc hockey c decline. E garnerin especiall~ the argur and pro and the ~ sen~~ parametE 01 b) As the draws I cham pic Whether Lakers Phil adell go to the middle: • He has ' the prern league, I his care him the where tt Jabba1 time.s sil from tt Whilepl: quickly one of th the N.B. Lew Ale interest~ him to take am life. Tl traded t whoppin such plc: and Jun L.A. I deal fro had not 'capabili berlin.·: get lost of Calif< severe i seemed and sh during that Ja compla1 not car1 Onep1 was the Jabbar teamgll it alonE fine fo\i and Ad were siJ in the 1 Unfortu blame pointin~ the sho This3 Lakers Johnso plemen backco1 retaine' true p Chones help to With Cooper andSp off the finally

.Page11. tlporte s .. I' .· A'View From The Stands by DOUG SILVERS'l'EIN The day Is over when professional sports a~:e superior to college sports, which means that , they shoul<{ •St~rt swallowing their pride an¢ begin to learn a lessen -or. two from the examples set by college sports. By, the same token, colleges should ·continue tG learn from the lessons~ taught by professional sports. Ratings were down this year in: both college and pro · basketpall, which to many may come as a surprise. But football and baseball continae t<> grow,. while hockey continues its steady decline. Eventho\lgh football is garnering more populadty, especially on the college ranks, the argwnents between college and pro traditions in football and the other •Sp()rts can only serv~ to irnpmve both panimetets. ,In case you're - confused by now, I plan to discuss the lessons that the two different arenas can learn from each other in a design to im• prove ratings and quality. The most obvious difference lies in football. College foQtball has used the bowl system as long as football has existed, and p,i<;ks a national champion by vote at the culmination of all the post-season contests. · This secures the excitemem and drama ·Of the bowl games. But - during the last couple of years these traditions have been the cause · of extensive con-' troversies concerning the .final selection of a national cham- pi'on. For instance, last year Southern California lost their chance to be' No. 1 when they tied Stanford during the regular season. Alabama won· the championship by virtue of an undefeated season. Can anyone really compare these .two teams OT: Jabber Exc_e.l·s by DA VElltlJDEN This team e£fort seemed to without a game between the two? If you're .t}linking that the national championship means little to college football,you are , severely mistaken. The result . means more recruiting, more prestige, more donations,. and increased application rates. What this all means is mote money, and don't they all need it now. I suggest a playoff system similar to the NFL with the bowl system preserved. The four winners of the top four bowl games (Sugar, Orange, Cotton, and Rose) would then meet at neutral sites for a final playoff. This way we sec.ure the pageantry of the bowl\ games and remain fair in the process, eliminating the arbitrary and questionable voting procedure currently used. Pro football, although , it needs no urgent improvements, took the lesson of col1~ge a few years ago by . moving thE! goal -posts into the ' back of the end zone. The sport 'in which teams could learn credibly from each other is basketball. It would seem logical to implement a thirty second clock in college basketball to eliminate the late ,game stall. But rather than thi~, r suggest a ninety second dock. Presently teams can hold onto the ball indefinitely, ani:i the ninety second dock negates this proble~. ~e &dvantage it h~s over the th1rty second clock IS simply that it is notas drastic a change and would receive less negative feedback. Professional basketball might be inclined to adopt a few college rules to · eliminate the run and gun style-· of play and promote more teamwmk. How about :adopting the college zone, currently illegal in the pros. Also, a thirty second clock might ensure more strategic and less chaotic game 'plans. The pros could make an a.ttempt at adopting a provision that would declare a player fouled out after five instead of six fol,!ls. This would possibly decrease the increasing dangerous style of play that bas become the cornerstone of the success of a few teams, but the cause of numerous injuries. Finally, one . c6uld make comparison between college hockey and pro hockey. If you r.ead my · article on hoc~ey violence, you realize that I am adverse to any provision that allows for more violent play. College hockey suspends any player I that engages in any serious fight, a provision that would ensure safety and im- prove the style of play in the NHL. Also, mandatory use of helmets would be a great adoption of the pro ranks from college sports. Another real problem with professional hockey is its lack of appeal to the American hockey fan, partly due to the playoff system now existing. They allow six- teen of the twenty-one teams in the playoffs, turning the playoffs into a farce. It has expanded too far and now suffers from earlier success. There's no doubt that professional sports and college sports are lacking in certain areas and have numerous lessons to learn from each other. These are just a few of the suggestions that could be made. With the economy get- ting tighter each day, the sports arena must improve itself before sports becomes a luxury, not a recreation. · As the current NB.A. season draws to a -close, a new champion wiU be crowned. Whether the Los Angeles Lakers win the series with Philadelphia or not, credit must go to the Lakers big man irt the middle: Kareem Abdul-J'abbar. He has established himself as the premier player in tbe entire league, playing the best ball of his car~er · this year. Without him the Lakers would not be where they are today. awaken Jabbar. For the first time in a long while ,.he has taken a direct interest in t~ game and provided leadership. A good deal of the credit for this must go to Johnson,. whose cheery · outlook on the game seems to effect everyone. he ; J~V. L8x End 'At6-3 Jab bar\ has had some hard time.s since entering the scene from the- U.G.L.A. <:arnpus. While playing for Milwaukee,he quickly established himself as one of the dominant big men in the N.B.A. He was also called Lew Alcindor at that time. His interests In the Muslim faith led him to change his name and take a more religioas outlook on life. The Bucks eventually traded him to ·the .Lakers in a whopping deal that included such players as David Meyers and Junior Bridgeman. L.A. fans expected a great deal from Jat>bar. The Lakers had not had a big man with his 'capabilities, since Wilt Cham- berlin. ·But Jabl>ar seemed to get lost in the hustle and bustle of California life and it had a severe impact on his game. He seemed to lose interest easily, and showed 'little emotion during games. IVlany worried that Jabbar had become so complacent with his game as to not care anymore. One problem .tltat was ignored was the Sllpporting cast which Jabbar had. Basketball is a team game; no ()De man can do it alone. The Lakers had two fine fowards in Jamaal Wilkes and Adrian Dantley, but both were small and offered no help in the rebounding department. Unfortunately., t:he bulk of the blame for the Lakers disap- pointing seasons was placed on the shoulders of .ihe big man. This year thingschanged. The LakersdraftedEarvin \Mag'ic\ Johnson, the per~ect com- plement to N <>rrn Nixon in the backcourt. Up front tbe Lakers retained Wilkes, but ad<led a true power foward in Jim Chones. He has been an added help to Jabbar on the. boards. With people Uke Michael Cooper, Mark Landesberg.er, and Spencer Haywood commg off the bench, Tbe Laker-s were finally a team . ..;_>::,t.~l~r:r~;·~:~~:\'-~'~.. Y : by'rASTYDUDE plays with. During ·t~e first I . This year's J.V. Lacrosse ga~e. of the yea~ (which was performance turned out to be a natiOnally tel~vtsed) J abbar pleasant surprise for the sank ~ne of ~1s patented sky prospering Union College hooks m t~e fmal se<;ond of a Lacrosse program. The team game agamst San Dtego. The finiShed up with a 6-3 ledger cameras f?cused on Johnson including victories over and . the btg man, both em- Williams and Hudson Valley bracmg the other at center Community College. co~~· Apd Jab}Jar was even The team was well organized sr~ulin~, somethmg unheard of by Varsity eoach Fran Meaber, with hliD. and , under the inspiring It seems t~at tht; rt;ason for direction of coach Jerry Dwyer Jabbar's disappomtmg per- they set out in their first game ,, short 9-7. The team next travelled to Skidmore where they faced a very anxious Skidmore team. Here the favored and more popular Dutchmen squad were upset by a surprisingly qualified Skidmore il a crosse team. The team next hosted RPI and once again proved to out- play the engineers, this time defeating them 13-4. Phil Boccetto and Joe Bosco turned in fine performances as well as defenseman Mark Landis. formanc~ the past few years to prove themselves against was the added pressure on him Albany State. to do it alone. ~ow with ate~'? On a rain drenched field April to support- h1m Jabbar _IS 12, the J.V. Lax men took the playing the best basketball of muddy field in search of their his career. He is providing first victory. A very phy$ical leadership both on and ~ff the game entailed, . but tpe per· The team next played the Syracuse University J.V. . Lacrosse Team enjoying the privilege of playing such a host (on astroturf). The team fought \hard but fell_short by a 12-5 court. And bec~use ~f' this, the formance by goalie Steye Kosek N.B.A. champwnshtp trophy enabled Union to hang on to a 5- may reside in Inglewood, 1 win. Midfield standout Paul California this year. Thank~ to Mazur had a fine game ae- the big man and company, of counting for two goals. course. The team nex:t travelled to The 1984. Record (formerly the Fresh- man Record) Buy yours now! None wil I be available next year. Bring this coupon and $6 to Diane Eliot in Student Activities·. RPI tq battle th~ engineers. This resulted in a lopsided game which saw the Dutchmen purnme114 goals past a hapless _ RPI goalie. The final score was· 14-2. Defensive stalwarts Kevin Taylor, Keith Dean, Dan Logue and Steve Sullivan held .off RPI attachs. Mark Marro received the MVP award this day by~ displaying awesome techniques by scoring 3 handsome goals. Middlebury provided tough opposition for the J .V. Laxmen iri their. ne,a game. A tough game ensued with Union falling At the :Rat ••• Mystery Special Stop i:n and see II Thursday Night The Rat needs 2 people from each frat or dorm for a blind taste test- so sign up now! margin. _ The Junior Varsity Laxmen next played Hamilton and .emharassed tnem \.- .• 7 \\' 11-2. Adam Brodsky scored four times and Mike Maloney also deserves crewt for his per- formance. The team next faced a very tough Hudson Valley Com- munity College Lax team. The., line of Tom Conway, Jamie Bono and Dave Treager proved to be the decisive factor as Union won 12 .. 9. Tom Conway had an out- standing game as he scored three times while also delivering several physical checks upon his opponents, Dave Sheriden arid attackrnan Kevin O'Shea. The Junior Varsity team climaxed their season with a 5-4 thriller over a stubborn Williams Lax team. The fine coaching of Jerry . Dwye~, Steve MacCarthy and Charley Howe enabled the team to finish with a 6-3 record.

Page 12 OONGORDlliJNSIB, May t5, ~9fl() eporte Wi!• 4 ( ~f' Last 5: Basehallers Finish 12-10. byTYCOBB The Union College Base'ball 1 earn ended their regular season of play last Monday by defeating Hobart twice 4-1 and 3-2. The Double victory pushed the Dutchmen te nne game above the .500 mark .and gave them an outside shot at an EC AC tournament berth. Union won four' of their last five .games by defeating. Albany State last Wednesday 12-10, losing to Williams 8-1 on Thursday, and then surprising Rochester on Saturday 5-4. Todd Fobare'stwo run homer in the top half of the last inning proved to be the deciding hit as 1\lbany State's comeback at- •.empt in the bottom of the in- ning fell two runs short. Andy Dreher became the first player this year to get four hits in one ~arne, as he smashed two doubles and two singles. Wayne Riker logged his third victory in six decisions and Dave Chused picked up his first save of the campaign. Williams stifled the Union offense last Thursday and dropped Glenn Kinns' pitching record to :i-5. Union could only . . . . . . . . muster four hits \\and a costly ho! htttmg D.amie~ Qumn. fifth inning error allowed five - Q~mn unle~shed a dn~e u~ the unearned runs to score. nuddle which drove m Km~s. Union rebounded on Saturday Geo_rge Oberstadt was .• ·tn- by\ defeating a highly regarded tentwnally walked. and . th~n Rochester team. Joe Lavery ,A,ndy J:?re~er dehvered h1s went the distance for his third gam~ wmnmg, a6o foot ~c;mble. v.ic~ory in 5 decisions. Unton does have a leg1tupate <aer:m Kinns tossed a 3 hitter chanc~ at an E~AC berth. The against Ho·bart on~onday to s~le~::t:wn committee has seven 1uake his final record 4.:5. Kinns o~ e1g~t teams under .. eo~- struck out 4 and walked three in Side~atton, and selectwn ts ~en innings. contmgent- not _ only upo,n In-the second game of the r~c~rds, but upon the teams double header, Andy . Dreher wtllmgness ~o enter as well. sockeda bases loaded double in Because of fmal exams, many the bottom of -the last inning to scho.ol~ ~r~ prevented from gi:Ve Union a 3-2 victory. Wayne parhctpatmg. . • R1ker upped his pitching record Just before press time, !o 4-3 with the victory. Going Concordy learned that the four mto the last inning, things did t~ams chosen for the Upstate not look well lor Union. Union ECAC Tournament wer.e had only had 2 hits up until that Oneonta State, 8ortland State, time, but when Paul McGrath Brockport, and RIT. reached first on a single and Sophomore Ace Glen Ginns moved to second when Joe Lavery walked, the crowd perked up. Coach Sakala in- serted sophome>re Glenn Kinns to pinch run for McGrath at second base._ The Hobart pit- cher then made the mistake of throwing a high fastball to the La:xmen E.nd~ F.ine Season Tennis Has Winning Year The Union College Varsity Lacrosse team recently com- pleted the 1980 season, a season in which Coach Fran Meagher's boys compiled a respectable 6-8 • record. The last three contests of the year proved somewhat disappointing, consiaering losses to Syracuse and Williams by scores of 21-3 and 15-14 respectively, sandwiched around a 17-12 victory over Hamilton. overtime victory, the winning goal being scored when an errant pass from goalie Ted Kelly bounced off the facemask of a Williams player and back into the Union net. However, Union played one of their strongest games of the year and could be proud of their effort in this contest. As usual, it was · Sean Durham and Neil Konner who provided the bulk of Union scoring, Sean picking up four goals and fouF assists while Neil , collected three-three. Mark Sockerson, Rob Sherman, and Jim Wright each picked up two goals on the day, while Rich Romer had four assists. ne}.1 year. At midfield, it was Rich Romer who provided 16 goals and 21 assists as he closed out one of the greatest athletic careers in Union history. Rich }_Vill be attending medical school m Mexico next year and all we can say is \Con una cabeza como tuya, no be be el agua.\ M~rk Sockerson and Rob Fisch- mann came on strong at the end of the season and have been chosen along with Sean Durham as tri-captains' for next year's squad. Rob Sherman completes a four year career ih which his leadership and steady aggressiveness made him one of Union's most valuable players. At attack, Neil Konner finishes his career as Union's second all-time scorer, com- piling 47 goals and 23 assists this year. Rookie Sean Durham proved a welcome addition to the year's squad, finishing with 29 goals and 21 assists. Jim Wright added 17 goals on at- tack. byS. BOVIER The Union College Men's Tennis Team finished their 1980 Spring Season with 6 wins and 5 losses, which is a great im- provement over last years 4-7 record. Coach Al Bagnoli and Captain Roy Lipson were very pleased with this year's results, as this was the team's first winning season in 5 years. This past week Union lost its last two matches to Middlebury on · May 7 and to a tough Binghamton team this past Saturday. A confident Union team drove to Middlebury, Vt. onlY. to get turned back 7-2. In singles, the steady Doug Rice upset his 3rd singles opponent by a 1-6, 6-3, 7\5 score. At 5th singles, 1981 team captain Barry Rosenberg overcame his tough opponent 2-6, 6-2, 6-0, providing a strong third set performance. Unfortunately, these were Union's only wins of the day. Freshman Dave Patalita, . playing second singles, won the first set 7-6, only to lose the next two sets 6-1, 6-1. while 6th singles Steve Eskenazi also lost a close match 6-4, 6-4. Graduating seniors Roy Lipson and Jeff Cohen both lost their matches to. very tough opponents. Following the singles play, rain forced the match to be continued indoors on a much faster surface in a poorly lit ice rink. Middlebury's doubles teams were well seasoned and the Dutchmen went ·on to drop all of their doubles matches. This past Saturday, Union travelled to. Binghamton as the team's both wound up their seasons with Union coming Up on the short end 6-3. At first singles, . Captain Roy Lipson provided his finest win of the . season, as he won in straight sets 6-3., 6-4. At third singles, Doug \-Fried\ Rice again came through for Union, winning 6-1 in the third set. At 6th singles, Steve Eskenazi, after being up 5-1 in the third set, finally pulled out his match 7-5. Barry Rosenberg, Jeff Cohen, Dave Patalita all lost tough matches. ln doubles, Binghamton prQved too tough for Union as they won all of the doubles matches in straight sets. Coach Bagnoli stated that Union's biggest weakeness this year was the team's doubles play. Next year Bagnoli hopes to increase Union's consistency and mental toughness by having more formalized drills and strict workouts. Also, with the help of Coach Bagnoli, .. the tennis team hopes to increase its budget and add some necessities such as propel' wind screens, new nets, more tennis - balls, ·and new warm-up suits designed strictly for tennis. In this way, Unio9 would hope to obtain new recruits,, which would greatly improve.. its reputation as a Division II tennis power. Next year's team captain Barry Rosenberg stated\ \This is only a start. Our first winning- season in 5 years shows the scheol that we have the talent - and all we need is the support.\ Graduating seniors Roy Lipson and Jeff Cohen leave Union after finishing their 4th Varsity season. Both players have been instrumental this season as well as in the previous three. Roy's hard work as team captain was greatly ap .. preciated by the players and the coaches, while Jeff Cohen leaves Union after compiling an impressive record. The loss of both of these fihe players will be felt next year. Returnees to next year's squad include Seniors Doug Rice, Barry Rosenberg, and Gary Turer, Juniors Tom Lestina and Stu Bober, and Sophomores Steve Eskenazi, Dave ''Space\ Patalita, Howie \Stocks\ Brodsky. and Bob \Fireplug\ Stratton. Union's tennis future looks bright with many of this years players returning. Coach Bagnoli looks forward to improving his winning record as Union's tennis coach next year. The Syracuse game was played under, the lights on an artificial surface, and the homefield disadvantage, _ Qlus Syracuse's No. 4 natio:nal ranking proved too much for the Dutchmen. The game was highlighted by Syracuse's ability to score in bunches while the Dutchmen encountered difficulty trying to penetrate past highly touted goalie Toll1 Molloy. Neil Konrier, Union's sole All-American candidate,. connected for two goals in the game while Rich Romer added the third Dutchmen goaL. Remer and Rob Sherman provided assists on the Union goals. The final was 21-3 in this overmatched game for Union. At Hamilton, Union relied on balanced scoring, key defense, and fine goalie play by Ted Kelly to propel them to a 17-12 victory. Hamilton jwnped out to a 2-0 lead before ·nav.e Schumann split the irons for the first Union -tally. Neil Konner- scored twice and Sean Durham once to give the. Dutchmen a 4·~ first period advantage. In lhe second, Rich Romer, Larry Salberg (2 )., and Durham again staked Union to a 8-4 halftime lead. Not content to sit on t.hat lead, Union came out firing in the third period as first Mark Sockerson pumped one h(}me and then Sean Durham pumped: in four in a row for a 13-7 Union lead. In the fourth Konner and Jim Wright each scored once before Durham put the icing on the cake with his $eventh and eighth goals of the contest, earning him honors as player of the game. And so the season ended, on a · sour note perhaps but still there was much consolation for the Dutchmen in the play of several standouts. At times, Ted Kelly looked very ·sharp in the nets and must· be credited for a fine job in his first season in the nets. Defensemen Bill Wall, Brian Sullivan, and Bob Gaylord all did admirable jobs . on ,.defense and with a little more aggressiveness Bobby G. · may he touted as one of the premier defensemen in the East As for me,, this' is it, no more Tuesday nights spent~ -scram- bling for infbrmation .. I hope somebody out there has enjoyed these little pieces of prose. The final game in the illustrious careers of senior Konner, Sherman, Kelly., Romer, Nearposs, Knopp, Miller and Bou1ger was played - at Williams last week, and Union was looking to break a Williams domination of thirteen wins S}1anning twenty.five years. Alas, it was not to he as Williams sleazed out a l!i-14 Brian Sullivan Th• been Unio1 com I aree grad are : This job grad tracl to tl GOO( infor did • num was out stud seve upw Goot 1979 mos tota: wer4 1979 well 29 sch< plo)i plo) heal dow · ferE follc 0 em] not rna: as ban and En~ sch En: dep are inc: for rna sev inc an< llif: Tr~ Mo is em N.' re] de] - las scl ffi\ on• 1 in< err on M; fiv E<

lS L6 !d ic :h ol re :a , h- td m 11 's ~s is ly 1e le ~r 's 11- is m to :h m t- re .n- pe ed I May 22, 1980 _Volume 109, No. 24 New Sororities ·Invited c 10 >- ~ E 10 0.. >- .0 Career and Placement Oirector Betty Goodman I ···,·:' by EDWARD ALBRO ''We have invited three sororities to explore the pos·sibiUty of establishing colonies on the Union College campus,\ Assistant Dean of Students Mike Andolina an- nounced this week. The in- . vitations were prompted by what Andolina termed ''a signifjcant show of interest\ in sorority life among Union's femal'e population. The in- creasing numbers of women on campus have demonstrated both a neeq and desire for in- creased choices in sorority life, 1979 Gradua'tes S~rveyed by ELLEN van DYKE majors are employed in such fields as sales, banking, in- The Placement Office has surance, and management. been taking a survey of the 1979 Four Economics majors are in Union graduates in order to raw school and one is on the compile statistics on how many Watson Fellowship. Of the are employed, how many are in thirty-three Political Science graduate sehoul, and how many majors; twenty are in graduate are still seeking employment. school including fourteen in law This has been a very difficult school. Five are employ~d in job because many of the such areas as sales and graduates are very difficult to . paralegal work and seven have track down or never responded . not been heard from. Ten to the questionnaires.. Mrs. Psychology majors are in Goodrp.an sent out four separate graduate school for law, information requests and still criminal justice, counseling, did not get responses from a and business. Thirteen number of graduates. There Psychology majors are em- was also the problem of finding ployed in various fields in- out the exact number of eluding sales, banking, students who graduated, as hospitality, and air freight several different sources came shipping. Four are still up with different numbers. Mrs. unemployed and three haven!t Goodman decided to use the been heard from. The two 1979 Graduate Program as the Sociology majors are both most accurate. source for the employed. · total number of graduates. Eight Social Science majors Based on the information they are in graduate school incb,Iding were able to collect, the class of -five for law and one for 1979 seems to be doing fairly medicine. Four others are well. Out of a total class of 523, employed including one doing 29 percent are in graduate an internship at the United school, 49 percent are em- Nations. Jnterdisciplinary ployed, 11 percent are unem- majors numbered fifty-one la~t ployed, and 11 percent were not year. Twelve are in graduate heard from. A general break· school, eighteen are employed, down of what students of dif- twelve ·are unemployed, and ferent majors are doing is as nine were not heard from. Of follows. _the three transdisciplinary Of the two Arts majors, one is majors, one is in dental school employed in acting and one was and two are employed. ' not heard from. Eight English Twenty-two of the forty-one majors are employed in fields Biology majors are in graduate as diverse as computers, school with twelve for medicine, banking, insurance, electronics, th;ree for dentistry, tw~ for law, and sales. There are also six and two for ecology. Nme other English ·majors in graduate Biology_ majors a~e employed school for law, theology, and mostly m related f1elds at such English. In the History places as Ellis Hospital, N.Y.C. department seven graduates Blood Center, Albany Medi.cal are attending graduate school Center, and Sloafl-Kettermg including·three for law and two Memnrial Hospital. S~ven for social work. Four History Biology majors remain majors are employed out of unemployed. In the Chemistry seventeen in the department, department ele~en alumni are including one as a bartender in graduate scflool, seven for and Qne in panking. One other medicine, and seven ar~ em- H.istory major is in Officer's ployed by ~uch_ compames as Training School. Of the three G.E.,. Mobil 011, and Knolls Modern Languages majors, one Atomic Power Lab. Two is in graduate school, one is Physics majors are in graduate employed as an \engineer at school at Yale and R.P.~. and . N.Y. Telephone, and one is a three are employed by Kodak, reporter. The PhHosophy an~ the U.S. N~vy. Out o~ the department had four graduates t~1rty-four. Sctel}ee maJOrs, - last year. Two are in graduate £1fteen .ar~ m gradu~t~ sch~ol; school, one is employed as a the ma]onty for medtcm~. Ftye musician and composer,. and others . are employed . m m- one is still·seeking employment, surance, da~ care, and by American Studies majors Albany Med1cal Center and include two at law school, two Knolls Atomic Power Lab. Nine employed, one by I.B.M. and are still unemployed and five one by -~the Pewter Pot were not heard from. Management Corporation, and . The Math departlllent had five are still unemployed. In the mne graduates last year. ',l'Wo • . Economics dep~rtment, nine are in graduate school and seven ,are employed by com- panies such as Bell Lab., N.Y. Bell, Aetna Life and Casualty, IBM, an~ G.E. In the Computer Science department two are in gradQate school and nineteen are employed by companies wliich include IB-M, G.E., Raytheon, Bell Labs, and Digital Equipment Division. There were thirty-five Civil Engineers last year and three are-ffi graduate school, six are unemployed, and four were not heard from. The remaining twenty-two are emplgyed in construction, transportation, and are working for G.E., the Army and the Navy. The Me.chanical Engineering departmeQt ha:d forty-five majors last year and ten of them are in graduate school Including five in Union's evening division. j)f the thirty- five employed, eleven are employed by G.E. divisions around the country. Others are employe.d - by Texas Instruments, Eastman Kodak, Hewlett .. Packard, Pratt & Whitney, and other companies. Forty-eight of the fifty-three Electrical Engineering majors are exp.ployed. Their employers include Bell Labs, Raytheon, G.E-., I.B.M., Western Electric, Honeywell, Kodak and Knolls Atomic Power Lab. _ Mrs. Goodman hopes to be finalizing this survey in the near future. Keeping the Placement Office informed of one's post- graduate status is not only helpful to other students in terms of being ·able to contact someone in a specific field and of giving hope that jobs are available but can also be valuable to those alwnni still seeking positions. The Placement Office provides a continuing job search program and can keep alwnni informed about openings in their field if and only if they know where to contact the ahittmi. So the Placement Office tll'ges 1980 graduates and those following to be sure to let them know where you are and what you are doing after you leave Union. ~ . . he stated. Andolina reported a national trend of increasing female college enrollnlent and predicted that Union's female population; which now stands at 42 percent, would remain above 40 percent for the rest of the decade. The three sororities contacted were Kappa Kappa Gamma, Delta Delta Delta, and Kappa Delta. They were officiatly invited only to ''make. a presentation to see what in- terest there . is in a sorority, especially their sorority,\ Andolina said, but it is expected that :this process may lead to the formation of one or more colonies, the preliminary step in the installation of a new chapter of a sorority. Although all sororities contacted had pr:eviously exhibited unsolicited interest in Union, Andolina predicted that at the most probably only one colony would be founded. The three sororities were chosen because of the interest they had e~pressed in Union, their strong local altunni support, and their strong national organizations. The largest problem, of course, with .the in_stitution of new sororities is housing. Mr. Andolina had no ready answers to the question, though he was swe that any plan would definitely involve much shifting of people. The formation of new sororities ''may mean (housing them) in an existing dorm (such as Fox or Davidson) or one of · the smaller houses (McKean, Smitb. 1 Bronner) or nowhere at _. all~ which is a solution because a sor()rify is not defined by its house,\ he said. Andolina reported that female housing is already a problem, due to in- creased female enrollment, and th~t Sigma Delta Tau is filled to overflowing. · Both Mary Beth Burnett, president of SDT, and Jill Thompson, President of DG, greeted the possibility of new sororities very enthusiastically. \We'd be really glad to have more houses on campus. It'll make the whole system str:onger,\ Ms. Burnett said. From the interest shown tbrou:ghout this year and at this spring's formal rush, Thompson and Burnett felt the College could support two or possi~ly three sororities. In addition, it was felt that new sororities . would both strengthen the newly founded Pan Hellenic Council (the sorority equiv~lent to the Inter Fraternity Council) and be aided in their develop- ment ·by the PHC. Both presidents saw real problems in the formation of a sorority without a house, however. The fact that sororities are in- dependent and self-run makes the house \one of the biggest aspects and advantages of sorority life,\ .Ms. Burnett said. Ms. Thompson felt it would be a real problem to keep a fledgling sorority together if its members were spread throughout the campus. \It can be done,'~ Ms. Burnett said, \but I can't see a national coming on without housing.\ Andolina reported that in the first stage of the process, the sororities will make · presen- tations next fall to test campus interest. If the reaction is favorable, colonies will be established, probably sometime next year. In characterizing the student interest that prompted the invitations, Andolina said, •'Right now it's numbers, (later) we'll look for leadership. I think both are there.\ Runoff ·Results With last Thursday's Student Forll:Ill run•off elections, the selection of next year's student government is now complete. In the race for Vice President . of Administration, Cathy. Johnson won with 36,2 votes (61 pereent). Her opponent, Vern Vf etmore, received 231 votes (39 percent). David Handler and Sherry Laitman were elected to be the two Senior Class Represen- tatives. Dave received 96 votes (35 percent), and Sherry received 90 votes ( 32.8 percent). Mandy Phillips, the third candidate, received 88 votes (32.1 perce_nt) and was not elected. Gary Chadick, Cheryl .Ayelswurth and Sheila Walsh were elected to the three Sophomore Class Represen- tative positions. Gary received 147 votes (27.6 .percent), Cheryl received 143 vofes (26.8 per- cent) 1 and Sheila received 127 votes {23.8 percent). Duncan MacKenzie, the fourth can- didate qualifying for the run~off, received 116 votes (21.8 per- cent) and was not elected. . other positions in next year's student government were filled in May 1:rs election. Will lloyd will serve a two-year term as a student member . o the College Board of Trustees. Dave O'Connor was elected Student Forwn President for 1980-81 and Jim Fisher was elected Vice President of Administration. Next year's Junior Class Representatives will be Weldon Turner, Marla Shore and Rich Tannenbaum. Though the polling booths were outside for the Thursday run-off, only 593 students, or 33.5 percent of Union's student body of 2,000, voted. About 40 percent of the student body voted Tuesday, when the polling booths were 'in the basement of Carnegie Hall. All Campus Photo 1:00 p.m. Friday, May 23 West Wall Raindate: Wed., May 28

' Page 2 Editorial There has risen in the minds of several students a need for reevaluation of our campus housing policies. One specific policy has been put forth as exemplary ·of this need. The policy concerns the fact that students (other than graduating seniors) are required to vacate their rooms within 24 hours of their last f.lnal exam. This policy is part of the student responstbLHties as stated in the Student Handbook, but has not been actively enforced. This term, however, those students living in McKean, Richmond, North, South, Webster and W·est will be affected due to the college's hosting of the First Reformed Church of America's 300th Annual National Conference. This policy restricts &tudents from actively participating ln both the com- mencement exercises and the reunion weekend. It also places an unfair burden on: (a) those students who have working parents who . are only able to transport them on weekends, and (h). those students who have summer housing arrangements that are not effective until the end of the week. Another reason which necessitates reevaluation is the arbitrary manner in which this policy has been enforced. In past years, the policy was unenforced, But , due to the necessity to clean rooms prior to the conference this year, 1t will be enforced, but only for some students. Students living in housing other than the afore mentioned dormitories are stUl unaffected by the policy. Though the college has the legal right to enforce this policy, they also, in a purely legal sense, have the right to evict a student at any time within the term. Obviously, such a determining power must be wielded with constraint and understandings implicit between administration and students. This arbitrary and · abrupt change 1n policy violates one of the long 1:\eld understandings in housing: that students tnay occupy their rooms until commencement. s·uch an in- fringement should not be allowed.. Students should join with those who have already petitioned the Residence Life.'Office and force 1 a reevaluation of this policy. Obituary: , Ronald Francis Pl~u mb. Ronald Francis Plumb, 22, a senior student here, died Saturday in a .boating accident at Fremont, N.Y. , Visiting a friend, he was fishing alone on Anawanda Lake when his canoe capsized about 150 feet f!'om shore, according to police. He attempted to push the canoe to shore, rested after 60 feet, and went under 10 feet' later, police said. Medical examiners pronounced the cause of death as drowning. Ron wes born in Northampton, Mass., and lived in East Longmeadow, Mass. He was a 1976 honors graduate of East Longmeadow High School and captain of the football team in high school'and at Union. He was winner of the most valuable player ,. award in himrschool. Here, he was a four-year varsity letterman and was named to the Division III All-American team. His Bachelor of Science degree in Industrial Economics will be presented to his parents, Wallace E. and Noella (Paquet) :Plumb at the College's June Commencement. President of the Block U. Society, Ron last year won the William J. Pike Award for the outstanding junior athlete and campus leader. He was also the student representative to the Friends of Union Athletics Society. _ . In addition to· his parents, Ron is survived by two brothers, Richard D. and Kenneth R., also a Union student, and a sister, Theresa R., as well as three grandparents. Donations in Ron'S name can be made to the Block U. Society for the purpose of establishing a memorial award. The deadline for the last issue of Concordiensis will be Tuesday, May 27 editor-in-chief donna creeley managing editor jim davis news editors ellen van dyke, ed albro features editors paul grossman, dan booth arts editor · judi chervenak · photo editors pam ryan, norm pflaster sports editor rich hope assistant sports editor bill curtin women's sports editor chris phelan layout editors. sue marr; rachel mandel copy editor . ellen rubin business managers julie isgro, larq leavitt subscription editor sara sunmons calendar .. :ellen berger,.madamanfredonia staff .. dan rosenfield, mark J)alom~>a., frail tei~!~, sliaron camms · CONCORDIENSJS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, ·Carnegie Hall, .Schenectady,- New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications,· Inc;, 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, {607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subsc. ription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Clgm,b,a.:k:e. ,, ~-~ ,,Lo.ne·r.g.ant,,Bnwtut,.,.J:J,m:tl~~vA~,v,t,_,,·,<~•<Io~~~lSibrer,the,<feiltwmlf~'l 'Bt>ing·s ·· ·i,n·, · $1,500

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS, May 1'.$, 1980 Editorial There has risen in the minds of several students a need for reevaluation of our campus housing policies. One specific policy has been put forth as exemplary of this need. The policy concerns the fact that students (other than graduating seniors) are required to vacate their rooms within 24 hours of their last final exam. This poHcy is part of the student responsibUlties as stated in the Student Handbook .• but has not been actively enforced. This term, however, those students living ln McKean, Richmond, North, South, Webster and West will be affected due to the college's bosting of the First Reformed Church of America's 300th Annual National Conference. This policy restricts &tudents from actively participating in both the com- mencement exercises and the reunion weekend. It also places an unfair burden on: (a) those students who have working parents who are only able to transport them on weekends, and ( b l those students who have summer housing arrangements that are not effective until the end of the week. Another reason which necessitates reevaluation is the arbitrary manner in which this policy has been enforced. In past years, the poUcy was unenforced. But , due to the necessity to clean rooms prior to the conference this year, it will be enforced, but only for some students. Students living in housing other than the afore mentioned dormltorLes are still unaffected by the policy. Though the college has the legal right to enforce this policy, they also, in a purely legal sense, have the right to evict a student at any time within the term. Obviously, such a determining power must be wielded with constraint and understandings implicit between administration and students. This arbitrary and abrupt change in policy violates one of the long held understandings in housing: that students may occupy their rooms until commencement. Such an in· fringement should not be allowed. Students should join with those who have already petitioned the Residence Life Office and force' a reevaluation of this policy. Obituary: Ronald Francis Plumb Ronald Francis Plumb, 22, a senior student here, died Saturday in a boating accident at Fremont, N.Y. Visiting a friend, he was fishing alone on Anawand~ Lake w~en his canoe capsized about 150 feet from shore, according to police. He attempted to push the canoe to shore, rested after 60 feet, and went under 10 feeC later, police said. Medical examiners pronounced the cause of death as drowning. Ron wes born in Northampton, Mass., and lived in East Longmeadow, Mass. He was a 1976 honors graduate of East Longmeadow High School and captain of the football team in high school and at Union. He was winner of the most valuable player ~ award in high\ school. Here, he was a four-year varsity letterman and was named to the Division III All-American team. His Bachelor of Science degree in Industrial Economics will be presented to his parents, Wallace E. and Noella (Paquet) Plumb at the College's June Commencement. President of the Block U. Society, Ron last year won the William J. Pike Award for the outstanding junior athlete and campus leader. He was also the student representative to the Friends of Union Athletics Society. In addition to his parents, Ron is survived by two brothers, Richard D. and Kenneth R., also a Union student, and a sister, Theresa R., as well as three grandparents. Donations in Ron's name can be made to the Block U. Society for the purpose of establishing a memorial award. The deadline for the last issue of Concordiensis will be Tuesday, May 27 editor-in-chief donna creeley managing editor jim davis news editors ellen van dyke, ed albro features editors paul grossman, dan booth arts editor judi chervenak · photo editors pam ryan, norm pflaster sports editor rich hope assistant sports editor bill curtin women's sports editor chris phelan layout editors sue marr, rachel mandel copy editor ellen rubin business managers julie isgro, larrrleavitt subscription editor sara sunmons calendar _ ellen berger, maria manfred(;mia staff dan rosenfield, mark palomba, fran telte~? - sliaron camins: CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications,· Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subsc.ription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Clambake Brings in $1,500 Dear Members of tpe Union College Student Body: Congratulations. Yes, congratulations to you Union College students that made the Sigma Chi Clambake so sue· cessful this year. You not only braved 7S-80 degree sunny weather, you chugged down 48 kegs of beer, 20,000 clams, 600 lbs. of chicken, 4251bs. of potato and macaroni salad, and 2500 ears of corn. And to top that, you helped raise $1,500 for charity. The proceeds will be split between our national service project, the Wallace Village, Big Brothers-Big Sisters and the Ronnie Plfunb Memorial Fund sponsored by the Block U Society. you must all be counmen(Jte<;t. Thanks To Election· Comm. To the Editors: Now that the final.·£lection of . my Union. College career ·· .. bas . . . . · . · · . .. . .and .I can relax the -J~·~;;.~p~ Stern, Andy Mitchell, Ed Since energy conservation is Lonergan, Bruce Beni, A vi no longer feasible, the following Shapiro, Larry Mariasis, steps must be taken: 1) Forbiq Marabeth Sollis, Jeff Mitchell, the sale and we of motorcycles Ken Plumb, and, of course, and any ears with fewer than Lorraine, who was always twelve cylinders. 2) Implement ready to help when there was an a minimum highway and road emergency (and thank God we speed of 80 mpll. This will not didn't have as many as last only S'ucce.ufull:y waste gas, but year}. Without their help, I also boost sagging car sales as doubt that the referendum and new cars will be needed because the election could have been of increased accidents. 3) Spill a held. five-inch thick layer of oil over Finally, my congratulations the Gulf of Mexic() and the to the winners and my con- Caribbean Sea. 'This is not so lations to the losers of the past really a waste of oil, but a election. You should remember clever hurricane prevention that an election cannot be held . program. Also, this will finally without concerned candidates get rid of those miles. of beaches bringing the issues to the at~ with millions of reclilling beach tention of the students. There chairs in serried ranks and will always be an open spot at files, each one laden with a Union for these concerned decadent sunbather slo~y students. frying in his or her own juices. Next year, the Elections 4) Light all the natu.ralgas wells Committee will have to carry on on fire for the biggest Fourth of their duties without me. After July spectacular celebration in the performance of this past history! 5) Make everything out week, I am confident that the of · It's light, it's clle:ap, to Retl Cross. ZBT --be manning booths ~utside e Honseantt'W~st · COil~ge dttring ltmmt and .. a.m.~ rter, ~rtd.:alsl) fusf~e of Carnegie Hall · during th~ afternoon throughout the whole we.,k. TJ\e contest works like ·· · JuSt . tfi one ~Hhe bOtl~b l,n~~:~!=Ju¢tte fa'c'iJ'ities To the Editor: -·.; . ·---

. \ CONCORDIENSIS, May $12, 1980 Thank You Ron·Piumb ·· ·In ·Loving M.emory- Jan~uary 30, l958 -·May 17, f980 ... a person who we will n.e'!Je.r forget whose smile and la/ltghter touched all who knew him in a special wav, who gave all of himself in aZZ that he en• dea'IJored, ,.. who spoke ne'IJer ~1 ha,t.red l:iut rather of frie'ndship, , . who was a true Zearler in every sense fJj the word, . who was a friend. We can only pray, Ron., th'a,t you are gracing your present company with, th,e same spirit that w13;· all knew arul Zo'IJe<l ')fOit fo·r, Thanks. --B.S. in Industrial Economics --Four-year Varsity Football letterman ---Varsity Football captain --ECAC Division III All-American --President · (1978-1979), Vice President (1977· 1978). of Block ••u:· yarsity Athletic Society --Recipient of William J. Pike Memorial Award for Outstanding Junior .Athlete and Campus Leadership (1978-1979) · -·Student Manager of Achilles Rink (2 yrs.) --Intramural Student Director (2 yrs.) --Student Representative for Friends of Union College Committee Page 3

OONCORDIENSIS, May 22, 1980 Thank You Ron Plumb -In Loving Memory- Ronald F. Plumb- January 30, 1958 -'May 17, 1980 ... a person who we will never forget whose smile and laughter touched all who knew him in a speciaZ way, who gave all of himself in all that he en· deavored, ~ who spoke never of hatred but rather of friendship., who was a true leader in every sense of the word.1 who was a friend. We can only pray, Ron, th'at you are gracing your present company with- the same spirit that we all knew and loved you for. Thanks. --B.S. in Industrial Economics --Four-year Varsity Football letterman --Varsity Football captain --ECAC Division III All-American --President (1978-1979), Vice President (1977- 1978) of Block \U\ Varsity Athletic Society --Recipient of William J. Pike Memorial Award for Outstanding Junior Athlete and Campus Leadership (1978-1979) --Student Manager of Achilles Rink (2 yrs.) --Intramural Student Director (2 yrs.) --Student Representative for Friends of Union College Committee Page 3

Page 4 OONOORDIENSlS., MQI'JI ~8, 1980 Union- Da.vs And Nights: Union Fraterni,ies: One Big~Happy Family? both to the national trerid away from them and- the Union campus atmosphere--where both student involvement in other affairs and a Somewhat . hostile administration attitude made this place less than a hotbed for such fraternal associations. by JIM DAVIS As well as warmer days and blossoming trees, springtime here for many students also means fun. And last weekend probably offered as many op- portunities for good times as any so far this season. For many, the festivities began Thursday night at Delta Phi's cocktail party. They continued the next morning with more Of the same at Beta Theta Pi, whi'le the sun rose. And they didn't have to end until Sigma Chi's post-Clambake bash wound up,. sometime Sunday morning. While all of this likely didn't do much to bolster attendance at last Friday's classes, it nonetheless points out one of Union's strongest assets: the fraternity-sorority system here is · remarkably strong, especially for an institution of this size. This wasn't always so. The early 1970's were a slow time for the Greek system here, owing This no longer is the case.. 1 Union's two sororities, Delta Gamma an~_Sig~a Delta Tau, ~ both chartered m 1977, have ~ grown and strengthened, ad- · · ding another dimension to on- ~ campus social life. And the a.. College's newest fraternity--its ~ 15th--Kappa Sigma, was 0 rechartered last fall and has o also become a force to' be .'&_ • reckoned with. • Because Unio!l is the place where the modern fraternity system got its start, back in 1825, when Kappa Alpha was established, followed in 1827 by Sigma Chi and Delta Phi, this resurgence is only befitting. But the Greek system's re- emergence here is not without its problems. Like any entity with recently gained str-ength, it has had to test its limits to see what It can and cannot do. For the most part, the College's adm1nistration, faculty and staff have been U{lderstanding. This, too, is only appropriate. F-or ·Union's fraternities and sororities provide the liveliness and solidarity that in large part set this place apart from the c..-owd. Without them, going to college here wouldn't be m.u~h more tha:n attending classes. Blue Skies O't~er Union: More Than A F eelin~ by D. BOOTH So far my columns have avoided touching upon the subject of sex. This article will specifically relate to sex, and those emotions and feelings which revolve around it. all things, inside and outside a person, should be utilized to their full capabilities. Sex is but one of these things, and I think I should add at this point, by no means the most important. That .is precisely what I meant; sex is not the most important part of life, nor is it an end in itself. By this I do not mean to degrade sex, far from . it, yet there should be time to walk arms entwined, time to talk, even time to smile. Whether there is love or not is not always the most pressing issue either. There are perhaps more overriding concerns: how 'many can claim close friends or a kindred spirit? The fiery passions and mindless lovemaking have their place, but there should be time for growth, time for gentle touching, and a time where the outer existence doesn't matter. there is a feeling which we cannot describe or rather cannot name, but In those\ lazy afternoons when the sun seems drawn by unicorns artd wild- flowers dance with daylight stars, look! look at those feelings, those thoughts. Talk of them, he more open. 'I don't suppose I wollld even write this article if I did not think that people were more inclined to expect some sort of celestial -feeling from some outside influence rather than themselves. One only gets back what one puts into something; this applies to the great illusion of our age, sex, as well as anything else. I am not going to give advice on sex, not because I feel in- capable, but because even the best advice may go wrong, yet I will caution that sex needs mare than the act itself. And .as to love; ask me not;· some things are beyond man's ability to tell another the answer. ' The number ·Of Greek letter societies on campus provides a wide diversity that offers something for almost everyone. SimHarly, though, this divergence also insures that at some time some things may occur that are not to .some in- divid.uals' liking. When this happeus, it is un- fortunate. But even these negative experiences can offer some positive lessons. Of particular note here is the situation that sometimes develops when some .frater- nity's bash continues on, producing loud noises, into the wee hciurs.ofthe morning. While those taking part are no doubt enjoying themselves, those who are disturbed a4nost certainly are net. This may lead to a visit from a campus security offic'er, requesting that things quiet down-advice that may or may not be taken. In- any case, _though,\ the morning does eventually come, and the problem is solved. At least on the surface it is. But the root concern~-over comm unication--d'oesn 't so easily end. In the end, everyone has to realize that they are onlY· part of tbe campus community, and that for this reason it has to be respected. Security is doiu_g no more than their job when they ask for things to quiet down. But at the same tinie, the.ir message is likely to have a lot more effect if it is delivered in an inoffensive manner. They should fake into account the contribution such activities make t() the environment here. And at , the same tjme, those guilty· of such offenses should take into account the reception' their activities are receiving elsewhere. Such communication will only cont~ibute to the understanding different groups and individuals have ofeach other. And this can only increase the solidarity and cohesion of the College com- munity. Wear A Helmet When You Ride As I said, my previous ar- ticles have scrupulously avoided any mention of sex. They have instead concentrated on those things that a person can do and enjoy without ever really looking ihside themselves for pleasure. They are activities which totally involve a person outside of themselves. Anyone can do them; m()st of them can even be done without a partner. Perhaps in a way it may seem that I have advocated \Everything in Excess-- Moderat on is for Monks.\ If so, I can now .llay that I do believe that statement to the extent that We are not animals, nor mindless puppets predestined to \ some future fate. Choice lies in our own hands. I want to grasp my own fate, in the sense that I wish to put my feelings into something more concrete. All of us have needs, but in turn we . Presidential··Poll Results ' . . need more than those picnics, more even than a Daquiri can provide. Has anyone ever really cared to look inside themselves? Each person. must, to ever be more than an empty shelf. Sometimes Taste Testers Needed at the Rat Thurs. Night 10:00 p.m. . 1' Special Mystery Ale 2/$1.00 12 oz. bottle -Get your Rot Shirts Now Limited Supply Still Available . by JIM DAVIS If the election for President of the United States had taken place last Thursday, in- dependent candidate .John Anderson _would have been the big, winner among Union students. An overwhelming .portion of those taking part in that day's Presidential preference poll--UB.9 percent- voted for the 10-term Illinois Congressman. He received 405 .of 593 ballots cast in the poll, held in con- . junction with the St11dent Forum election run-offs. Jimmy Carter, the likely Democratic nominee, received 112 votes, or 19 percent. Ronald Reagan, the Republican front-runner, trailed with 71 votes, or 12.1 percent of the vote. While Anderson's support was widespread, it did not appear• to be particularly deep or com· mitted. Many of those who preferred him admitted they did not know much about any of the candidates and would want to study them and the iss11es before making their final decision. , Many Anderson supporters indicated they favored him becau.CJe .he represented the best possibility for change. They e~tesl!jeg, t;U$il:PJlO~trn.~n;t wi~~ the present national state of affairs, and hope that Anderson would be able to correct them. But at the same time, some also said they were unsure of the independent's. stand on issues and what· course of action he would pursue. ''His ideas are a mix of both the right and the left,\ Junior Steve Goll said. ''He's for a balanced budget--tha~'s con- servative. But he also supports things like the Panama Canal treaty and the Equal Rights Amendment, indicating a more liberal stand.'\ Some students also indicated that - Anderson's as-yet- unchosen running· mate could affect their support of him. Following the current wisdom, stud~nts here :most often mentioned New York Senator Daniel Patrick Moyoihan as the likely vice presidential choice . Whoever Anderson's running mate turns out to be, the hope , here is thathe will help to more clearly define the campaign. Until now, some feel, Ander- son's campaign, like that of _Ronald Rea·gan, h,as been primarily a negative~ one, more often criticizing the President;s policy moves without presen- ting many real alternatives. As the campaign develops, abnost all those questioned hope that Cartei\'s challengers will define the alternatives they will offer. At this point, the consensus is that these positions aren't being more sharply outlined because doing so would cut into the candidates' support. Anderson, for example, is seen as being a highly idealistic person who will pursue th~se beliefs at the expense of votes. Arid · it is precisely this negativeness that has led Junior ' Mark Thorn to support the President at this time. \He's done the best job he rea:Uy could in a difficult situation,\ Mark said. ''None of the other can- didates have had to make those kinds of tough decisions.'' So despite the landsljde results of Thursday's poll-• intended to be the first in a series of presidential preference tests conducted on campus by Concordiensis until the November general election- the actual votes,of students here still appear to be very much up in the air. 41 When I vote in the election, I'll want to know more,\ said Senior Harry Adamakos, who voted for Reagan Thursday, He characterized hbnself as an independent and his preferential ball«>t as \basically an anti..Carter vote.\ ' \ b Las1 Psyc tbrOUI Setie Psyct spons social Milg1 curre Gtad1 UnivE Milgr for hi obedi being hast probl Dr. psycl then willir Frid« stuff: The I Dr focm diffe: resid as cc of s resic emp: to s: \bac ~·goc anal the 1 DI - OI Sov stra Squ: Unic Cze was and arr, var' dis~ whc und Am vin pro is~ Lit unc sub

-· OONOORDIEN818, Mary SS, 1980 Page 5 Uriion Hosts Speakers - Dr. Sfanley ,Milg~am---- by PAl,lL GROSSMAN Last Friday, May 16; the Psychology Department, thro1,1gh its Spencer Lecture Series and Psi Chi (the Psychology Honorary Society) sponsored a lecture by noted social psychologist Dr. ·Stanley Milgram. . Dr. Milgram currently teaches at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. Dr. Milgram became best known · for- his controversial studies on obedience to authority in human beings. His· most r,ecent work has been in the area of urban problems. Dr. Milgram, being a social psychologist, was surprised at the number ofpeople who were willing to give up a beautiful Friday afternoon and. sit in a stuffy room to hear a lecture. The turnout was impressive. Dr. Milgram's lecture focused on the psychological differences in the attitudes of residents of large, urban cities as compared with the residents of small towns.. Milgram, a resident of the Bronx, N.Y. emph:asized that he did not want to say that living in a city is \bad'' and living in .a town is f!good\ but merely wants to analyze the differences between the two living environments. Dr. Milgram spoke of how the effects of larger numbers of 'different kinds of people, combined with the high \density\ of people found in urban areas, provide a situation of stress for an individual who cannot adapt t() such situations. Milgram pointed out that, ''As tile density of a place increases, the frequency of new habits developing increases.'' Dr. Milgram illustrated this point in an analogy with a small country .grocery store. ''You would go into the store and chances are you're the only one in the store. You would then talk to the grocer, ask about his family, he asks about yours, and in the process, he get::; you your eggs, maybe a scoop of butter from a barrel in the back, ·and you would talk some more. The relationship is broader than just. a functional, economic relationship. As the number of <!ustorners increases, the grocer must fragment his involvement with the customers.'' This trend continues, eXplained Milgram, until eventually the relationship is dissolved and self-service takes over so thc;it, \Instead of knowing the store owner, you get the A&P.\ Dr. Milgram then explained the major focus of his work at the present time; ''to establish reality f:rom the anecdotes.\ Dr. Milgram and his students needed to find methods of quantitatively measuring the differences· suggested by anecdotes Uke the one above. They used many experimental procedures like determinations of the percentage of people who would shake a researcher's hand, the number of people who would aid a lost child, and .the number of ~people who would allow a .stranger to use their tdephone. All of the ex- periments qwealed what might be expected: the personal in- teractions - occurred more frequently in the 8mall towns. ~..Milgram then explained the results ·of some experiments he had done in the New York City subways. \The subway,\ said Or. Milgram, '''is a .place where the problems ·of urban life are most· magnified. Hundreds .of people are. shoved together in the subways making them particularly. good places to observe people's. behavior.\ Dr. Milgram and his students took on an assignment whereby they would ask people on the -sub- way, \May 1 have your seat?\ While the experiment revealed that almost half of the people asked would_ relinquish their· seats, the real surprise stem- med. from the comment of one of Milgram's students who said\ \That was one of the hardest things I've ever had to do.\ \ -\--Pavel Litvinov-- hyPAMRYAN On Aug. 25, 1968, a group of Soviet intellectuals demon- strated on Moscow's Red Square il) protest of the Soviet Union's Aug. 21 invasion of Czechoslovakia. The protest was broken up by KGB agents, and the demonstrators were arrested and punished in various .ways. One of these dissidents was Pavel Litvinov, whO\ spoke at Union last Friday under the sponsorship of Amnesty International. Lit- vinov, a physicist and prominent Soviet dissident who is also the grandson of Maxim Litvinov, foreigrr minister under Josef Stalin, spoke on the subject of human rights in the_ U.S.S.R. He de~;~.lt with the historical development of the human rights movement in the Soviet Un.ion, as well as his own personal experiences. ' From the 1920s until.his death in 1953, Stalin was responsible for continual purges. This was a ~eriod of mass terror, with between 15 and 40 million people either killed or imprisoned. 'Litvinov's grandfather, though not actually purged, was removed from his position as foreign minister in 1939,. mainly because Stalin wished to reach an agreement with Nazi Ger- many and he felt that this was not possible with a Jewish foreign minister. Even though· the elder Litvinov was simply dismissed and never purged, he Union College Philosophy Department is pleased to announce two semiJ\!ars PROFESSOR ·KEN STERN of the State Univer_§i:fy of New York at Albany· will present a paper entitled ' MORAL OBJECTIVISit AND MORAL REALISM A PAPERSKETCH Friday, May 23, 1980 at 3:30p.m. in Humanities 213 G. 1bomas Mueller of Northwestern UrHversitywHHal.k on THE STATE'S EVAPORATION IN A SUBU-RBAN UNIVERSE Monday, May 26, 1980 at 7:30p.m. in Humanities 213 Refrehments and infor.mal discussion will follow in Humanities Faculty Lour:-ge. Anyone interested is welcc:;me to aftend lived in fear that he might be one day. According to his grandson, he slept with a handgun under his pillow §O that it would be possible for him to commit suicicle if the secret police ever did come after him. In spite of this,· Pavel himself claims to have been untouched by the terror. Stalin's cult of personality was at its strongest during his youth, and he says that he had \loved Stalin.\ He remembers a special meeting .held in his high school after Stalin's death, and recalls crying upon hearing the news. In 1956, at the 20th Party: Congress, Khrushchev made his secret ' speech denouncing Stalin. At this point, the release and \rehabilitation\ (often posthumously) of many of the victims of· Stalin's purges in- creased. This process bega1;1 imm~diately after Stalin's death, but it was not until after Khrushchev's speech that it took place on a large scale. Although the actual speech was seen only by high party officials in the U:S.S.R. and was never published there, news of this reached the public, and the people returning from the· camps began to tell their stories as well. In -spite ·of all this, Litvinov at the time still strongly believed in the idea of socialism and communism. He believed that Stalin had violated certain principles, but that his death would bring about a .return to socialist legality and less repressive conditions. Gradually, Litvinov, like many ot_her intellectuals, began to realize that nothing would be significantly changed other than the reduced use of terror. Although the Ktushchev period was a time of relative liberalism ( C()mpared to Stalin's reign) there was really only a low level of freedom. There existed the belief that one was able to speak freely to one's friends without having to worry about repercussions, and some boo~s were allowed into . the Soviet Union from the West. . This period was not to last long, · Stanley Milgram Milgram found this to be true for most of his students as well · as himself. \This · produced intense anxiety for the asker. Once you go against the norm, you havl9 to find ways to nor- malize the situation.''~ Dr. Milgram said that he personally accomplished this nor- malization by feigning illness. Illness wouUl justify his request for a seat. Dr. Milgram also brought to light the almQst uniquely urban concept of the \Familiar Straager.\ The \familiar stranger,\ explained Milgram, \is the person who you have seen on the subway platform every morning for the past ten years and have never said hell() to.\ Dr. Milgram explained an· interesting phenomenon of the \familiar stranger\ concept. \As you move away from the physical location of non- communication, the more likely you are to communicate With that individual. If you were walking down the Champs. Elysses in France and recognized a 'Familiar Stranger', you would almost definitely stop and say, 'Hey, aren't you the _guy from the train station?'.\ Dr. Milgram ended his fonnal talk and proceeded tQ answer questions. He discussed his Continued on page 11 Pavel Utvinov however. In 1964, when Litvinov was a graduate student at Moscow University, Alexsandr Solzhenitsyn's \One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich,\ which paints a realistic picture of life in the Soviet prison camps, was published. According to Lit- vinov, this publication, on top of other events, was probably the last straw which brought about the fall of Khrushchev. The character of ·Khrush- chev's overthrow in 1964 was an indication of how much progress had been made. The fact that tle was not e~ecuted . was 'significant, as under Stalin not many people of high level survived t~eir fall from power. At the time of Khrushchev's fall, Litvinov was teaching physics. The mood of most people initially, he said,. was that conditions wouldn't be much different than under Khrushchev. Khrushchev had brought about the rise of people's expectations and rid most of the population of the complete terror-fear of reprisals which characterized Stalin's reign. The new regime; though not returning to the use of terror, began a retrenchment and more stringent controls on pubUc expression. According to Litvinov, freedom of speech and of the press are always the central issues in totalitarian regimes. In the Soviet Union, all means of publication are under state control and watched by the police. All publications are required to be passed by state censors. Under the new regime, there were tighter controls on literature than during the Khrushchev's perio'd. Because of these controls, Soviet in- tellectuals began to produce · \~amizdat\--literally, \.self- publication.'' Writers make several copies of their material on a typewriter, and these copies are circulated. The use of samijdat publications were initially: for poetry and literature, but eventually began to be used to voice criticisms of the regime, communism, etc., and tl}is became an important means of expression for in- tellectuals. The regime, and the KGB began to worry about this challenge to the state monopoly, especially since many of these samijdate reached the West, and began to crack down even more on writers. .In 1965, tw9 writers, Daniel ,,and Siniavsky, who had published books abroad under pseudonYm.s, were arrested to set an example to other writers. In 1966, as a resUlt ·of a closed trial, they were sentenced to five-to-six years iQ prison. The regime desired to set an example for intelleduals in tbe Continued on page 1! ~

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS., May SS, 1980 Album Review: Blotto Strikes by ROBERT FOX Reading all the print on the front of the new Blotto record is a .feat that most people would gain inspiration from. There is no punctuation and no ·space between words., but I'll make it easy. \Well this is ·it, the first Blotto record, not an album, not a single, but a twelve inch ex- tended ·play recording, an EP for short, with fo11r great Blotto songs on it.\ The band originates in the capital area, and is made up of six members. They all have the last name Blotto., and they told a concert crowd recently that they were all brothers, except Blanche, who is a nephew. Blanche plays keyboards and sings, and her voice stands out well from the other vocalists. Broadway Blotto seems to be the man in charge; he writes the songs. I was impressed by the performance of the bass player, Cheese. He definitely doesn't play a typically boring bass part. Sargent Blotto is a percussion specialist as well as a vocalist. He uses tnany dif- ferent instruments: finger cymbals, a cowbell, a whistle, a tambourine, and others. Bowtie plays gUitar. He's .a member from way back, whenne, -Broadway, and Sargent all played in a band together eight years ago. The album cover refers to drummer Lee Harvey Blotto as a \rock steady drummer,\ and there's nothing to add to that. (The albtim was produced by Farnsworth Blotto.) The four songs on the EP are \I W anna Be a Lifeguard;\ \The Nowtones,\ \Stop! in the Name of Love,\ \and \Bud ... is After Us.\ Three of the four were written by Broadway. The fourth, \Stop! etc.,\ · is not· much better than it is in disco. In fact, the other three songs are not impressive either, but the albUin does not represent well what a Blotto concert sounds like. All six members are energetic performers, and they can put on a top notch show. Their repertoire consists of a- lot of exciting tunes, 1n- clupmg the rockingest version Qf Sonny and Cher's \I Got You Babe\ I've ever heard. Those people who haven't seen this band yet should do so before Blotto makes it big, (at least for a while). They played at Psi 'U on May 4th and at Cagney's in Schenectady last Friday. In between songs at Cagney's Blotto informed the crowd that they had recently received a call from WNEW- FM in New York, and that the new Blotto record was the most requested new album of the week. The record is interesting; it takes a while to read the front cover. The songs get a bit dull after the first playing, but' they serve as good reminders Qf the concert. First things first: see Blotto live when you get· the chance. They put on a great show. Play Ret·ieu·: 'Butterflies Are· Free'-. by.JljDICHERVNAK On May 20, in the Nott Memorial Theater,. Leonard Gershe's ''Butterflies Are Free\ began Its run. It was performed well in spite of the major compUca.tion which arose prior to the opening. John Gaines, playing the rote of Don Baker, recently fell ill with pneumonia and thus could not appear that night.-Director Tom Farrell rescued the play as he stepped in as John Gaines's replacement. Fortunately, the other three characters were portrayed by those students originally casted: Connor J.ane O'Brien as Jill Tanner, Susan Weiner as Florence Baker, and Mitch Baruchin as Ralph Austin. · ' · Considering the last-minute circumstances, Tom Farrell· (Don Baker) performed ex- ceptionally well. His style was amusing; lively-and relaxed and · his energy was. readily con- veyed to the audience. Don Baker is portrayed as a sen~ sitive, sweet, seemingly well adjusted,. strong and yet very vulnerable young man. Connor O'Brien seemed assured and confident in her role. She portrayed Jill, as being a sen- sitive, warm and caring, although sometb;nes flighty young woman. Connor con- veyed her· charactet: well toward the audience. She established an especially good techni ue and .carriage of herself toward the end of the play. Susan Weiner was ex- ceptionally, .strong in her character as Don Ba'ker's mother. She appeared at first to be a domineering, arrogant, and very overwhelming mother from Scars\dale. After the unraveling of the plot, however, we view,her as a sincere, loving and . genuinely con.cerned mother. Although at first she does not really seem to be concerned with the · best in- terests of her blin,d son, Don, we ·.later realize that she was merely ignorant of his real ; need~ She really thought that she was doing what was best for her son by trying to persuade him to return to their home in CABARET PRESENTS THE 1 sf. ANNUAL GONG SHOW Thursday May 22 9 p.m. and n p.m. featuring Bill DiCon;za as Master of Ceremonies Tickets on sale 8 p.m. on Thursday in Carnegie Screenwritin~ COurse -;.The Gray Film Atelier is offering an unusual opportunfty to writing students who are remaining in the local area this summer. The Atelier, a local motfon picture studio, is ~aking available a -course in professional screenwriting. Separate work~hops · ,t~re being held during the month of July in Pittsfield, Mass. and in Saratoga,· N.Y. This unique -course has been taught at the Atelier for the past nine years. to · filmmaking apprentices from America and 12 foreign nations. Its instructor, Paul Gray, an independent produeer-director- screenwriter will· teach the course at both locations. Gray's most recent feature 1 film, \Everyman\, will soon be previewed in Albany. His films, \Aphasia\ and \PINS\, have appeared at international Film Festivals in Grenoble, France and Trieste, Italy. The . course will concentrate on the elements of dramatic story-telling as expressed in the specialized- language of the ciriema. :::>tudents will write a short scene each week. In ad- dition, the screenwriters will be · taught_ the r€latUmship of the producer and director to their -work, and the various steps in , the marketing of a screenplay. . Twice-weekly sessions ~ill be offered in the evenings at each location. The course is desighed for students with some ex..: perience at writing prose, drama, . journalistic essays, or for those with a deepening in- terest or fascination with the film or television media. Interested students should write to The Gray Film Atelier, P.O. Box 70, Hoosick Falls, N.Y. 12090 or should call the studio directly ·at (518) 686-5985 to. obtain detailed information on this course offering. Scarsdale to live:- When she re·auzed that he needed tG live alone_ and develop his self confidence, she· persuaded him to live alone in· his apartment although he wanted to return home because. of his feeling of desolation and a-bandonment. Supporting male a¢~or, Mitch Baruchin presents Ralph Austin as the conceited, arrogant and insensitive person which he obviously is from the plet. · ''Butterflies Are Free\ is a sensitive play which is at times amusing and at other times touching. However, it is at all times meaningful. Although we, ...... ~ the audience was often kept laughing by comrnents such as blind Don Baker's ''Just ask if I've felt an:y good books late~y.\ We were aware of the intensity and significance of his struggle to lead a normal life in a seeing world. \Butterflies. Are Free'' will continue its run in the Nott Memorial Theater every night until and including Saturday night, May 24. Tickets are available in the box office. AROW 'Th!il Art Resources Open to Women (AROW) Will sponsor a poetry workshnp here next month to be given by well- known area poet Lyn Lifshin. This 2-part ·workshop will be held on Monday, June 2 and Wedriesday, June 4 from 7 to 10· p.m. in Htunanities 116. Ms ... Lifshin will lead exercises in- tended to · awaken creativity during the first session, and on the second evening will facilitate the sharing of poetry written by workshop par· ticipants. Selections will be made from poetry produced in. this workshop for publication in · future AROW Newsletters.· This event is made possible with support from Poets and Writers, Inc. which is funded by the New York State Council for the Arts., and the fee for this twa-part workshop is $10. Both workshops are open to ...-the public and pre-registration is required. To pre-register, call AROW at 346-5101, or write to AROW, WORKSHOPS, 432 State Street in Schnectady. $1 You're A Good Man. • • p~\esents: BROKEN STR\NG by MELISSA GOLD This Tuesday night; May 27, begins the first of three nights of musical comedy in the Nott with the opening of You're A Good Man Charlie Brown. The musical, directed .by Union graduate Joe Millet, is credited to Charles M. Schultz for making the most lovable cast of characters ever to fill a stage or comic strip. . Director Joe Millet graduated as a Theatre Major from Union. He spent last term as an artist. in residence and was seen in The Three Sisters. This term he is teaching a theatre course and next year he will be taking his · Master of Fine Arts at USC. Performing in Jhis musical production will be: Tom Farrell as Charlie Brown, Melissa Gold as Lucy, Paul Sabatino as Linus, Adam Frey as Schroeder, Demetra Pontisakos as Patty, and Verna Lowe as Snoopy. All of the actors and· actresses are well known to Union's world of music and theatre. Responsible for the musical end of the production are: Tom Howes, our very special rehearsal pianist, and Professor Ned Rosen of the Math Department who will pl,ay piano for the .show, and Semor Matt Lubart who will play the Bass. This musical comedy promises to be fun and ~x­ tremely entertaining for all, so come and see everyones favorite cast of characters in a musical rendition of You're A Good Man Charlie B.rown. Show times are'Tuesday, May 27 at 7 al'ld lOp.m., Wednesday, May 28 and Thursday, May 29 at 8 p.m. Tickets may be purchased at the Nott Memorial Box OUice or at the door. BAtJ.D Fri. Ma-,.- 2.3 8:30 r~n, Ol.d ChapeL . . The Broken String Band will be playing at Coffeehouse in Old Chapel,. on Friday, May 23 at 8:30. 1'he trio plays , traditional dance tunes, songs and ballads from the British Isles and North America on a variety of instruments in- cluding the- tin whistle, fiddl.e, guitar, banto, h_ammered dulcimer and. bagpipe. The Broken String Band has ... per- formed in·concert, at folk festivals, in coffeehouses, on radio and television. throughout the north east._Back by popular demand (the band pl.ayed here on Fitz hugh Ludlow day) Broken String Band w.HI close our season Friday, May· 23 at 8: 30 in the Old Chapel. cui Je1 Jerry. bier, a ! who sin! and live! sings, m probabl) \Mr. Bo by thew night sp drunk t~ thanjusj walks m there. { Septemt Jerry in a cow to let : lurches Ph Jj will HC Som A Kn1 Reft c in Hw A $ aware Poetr by t1 quart' Poe subje' for t1 other awar1 Say Cole, o. N p E

OONOORDIENSIS, May-SB~ 1980 Page 7 • culture Jerry Jeff Walker -live· Jerry J·eff Walker is a ram- bler' a street-wise story teller who sings about what· he sees and lives just about the way he sings, natural and easy. He is probably be_st knownfor writing, ··Mr. Bojangles\. ''Bojangles\ by the way, was written after a night spent in a New Orleans drunk tank. His music is more than just ''Bo.jangles\. When he walks on stage, you know he is there. One reviewer .wrote in September of 1979 that: can hardly stay on his feet, but then he'll wind up and sing like the demons have got him. The diJnax of an up-tempo Jerry Jeff tune is invariably a long swirling coda at the end, the band Cranking full speed, then faster, a tidal wave of decibels washing the audience out of their chairs, :;1s three or !9 of Jerry Jeff's friends rush to the microphones to help him shout endless .repetitions of the closing chorus, kicking up the ,intensity on each· repetition until the crowd is howling and shaking, bodies shinning with sex and sweat, the world has meeting ir1 Hell. Jerry Jeff Walker is Bacchus in a cowboy hat. He knQWS how to let go. He shambles and lurches around the stag~ like he ~gone mad, and it's like a gosp~l Jerry Jeff Walker and the Bandito Band will be per\ forming in a free concert in front of West College to climax Camp Union Day, on Saturday, May 24. Free beer will be served, but because of security restr.ictions you must present your Union· ID to get it. Social Committee members will be. wearing yellow Camp Union T- Shirts, so see them if you have any problems. Union favorite \Hooligan\ will be opening for JerryJeffat 7:30. Be sure to get there early if you want to get a good spot for the concert! Union College PhilOsophy Department is pleased to aFTno.unce that - JAEGWQ,N liM of the University of Michigan wil.l present a talk entitled --' HOW DOWEcKNOW THAT3+ 2= 5? Some Considerations on the A Priori, Mathematical Knowledge, and Casualty Friday, May 30, 1980 at 3;30 p.m. in Humanities 213 · - Refreshments and infOrmal discussion will follow in Humanities FaGUity Lounge. · Ayone interes:teq is welcortJe to attend. Trivia Quiz There have been a number of versions of the Rock Opera Tommy by the Wb:o. One version was released in 1972 by the London Symphony Orchestra and Chamber Choir, wit:h guest soloists. Who sang the song \Tom:tny's Holiday Camp'' on this particul~ralbumf (Hint: He was one of the guest. soloi~ts and is not Roger Daltry!) Put the answer ~and your nam:e on an index card and drop it in intercampus mail addressed to Trivia Box 2141 by noon, Saturday. The winner will be Q.rawn from all the correct a_,nswers received, at 6:00 _p.m. from the Camp Unian Stage, and will receivE! a case of MC>lson's Golden Ale. Good tuck! Poetry C~ntest A $1000 grand prize will be awarded in .the Sixth Annual Poetry Competition sponsored by the World of Poetry, a quarterly newsletter for poets. Poems of all styles and on any subject are eligible to compete for the grand prize or for 49 other cash or merchandise awards, , Says Poetry Editor Eddie-Lou Cole, \We are encouraging poetic talent of every kind, and expect our contest to produce exciting discoveries--like Virginia Bates, a housewife from Woodbine, Maryland. She~ won our grand prize last year with her ·poem PlET A, about her son in Viet Nam. '' Rules and official entry forms are available from World of Poetry, 2431 Stockton, Dept. N., Sacramento,. California 95817. TWISTED TERM-S . . arts ' .:Jerry Jeff Walker W elcoine To Cainp This S~turday, from noon to midnight, the Social Committee is proud to present the third annual Camp Union Day. Camp Union is a party that celebrates the fact that semetimes this place · seems more like a summer camp than a College. _ This year is going to- be the biggest·Camp Union ever. All day activities include an all- campus munchout by West College. Free beer and soda will also be available. In front of Carnegie, from Noon to 5 p.m., roller skates will be available for a small charge (ID required as a deposit). At 3:30, there will be a .. chugging contest (at a location· to be announced). Each member of the winning team will receive an album. The . Camp Union T-shirt will also be back. Mitch's Maze Musically, we have almost a. continuousday of music. WEUC will be presenting \A Party on the Beach\ from Noon to 6:00 P.M. The Lost Highway Ramblers, Sea-Thru, plus very special guests will be per- forming. WRUC ·will also be selling buttons and giving away balloons. To end Camp Union Day with a bang, The Social Committee (with help from the Concert Committee) is proud to present a free, nighttime concert, with JERRY JEF.F WALKER, in front of West. Hooligan will open for Jerry Jeff at 7:30. Jerry J eif Walker will go on at 9 p.m. If anybody is interested in helping out sometime during · the day, call Katie Martin at 6476. Welcome to the Camp! by Ch-ris Oratch. DASNB- ~ D -· - ~WRUC \~H·l 909fm·•••'\ 0 ~-lbums at- 10 MEGSA-. ~0~-. PAESRIT 0---0---. ECUBRAB'E - - - - ---:- [l n - K\NERALOLIGRST - D - -. ~-·. - -· ,. ------ SATURDAY.· lobert Gordon live radio $pecial MONDAY • Elton John 21 at 33 TUESDAY • Cheap Trick I The Continentals (nu-disks, or 4 song 10\ eps) WEDNESDAY • Propaganda I New Musik (also nu-disks) THURSD/i Y .. Aztec Two Step • The Times of Our li~es 1. Grc;Jteful Dead 2. Pete Townsend 3. Clash 4. Eric Clapton 5. Pretenders ·6. Blotto 7. Rachel-Sweet WRUC Top 20 Albums a. Linda Ronstadt · 9. Various < 20-20) 10. Dixie Dregs 11. Flash and the Pan 12. Mike Rutherford 13. Warren Zevon 14. Pink Floyd 15. Ramones 16. Billy Joel 17. J'am 18. Daryl Hall 19. Bob Seger 20. Marshall Tucker

Page 8 OONCORDIENSISJ May SB; 1980 roun am Life on a kibbutz gives an alternative to the llfestyl~ that . we're an· accustomed. From pic king oranges to milking C.OWS to packing chickens and pulling artich()kes, it was an experience that was worth ·everything that went wrong (which was very · little). Just living withi.n.a notl· American culture broadens · your perspectives and makes a term abroad in Israel a worth· while three months. Area Calendar FILM the spotlight at the Albany Public Library, 1'61 Washington Avenue at 12:15 pm when two films will be shown. ONTARIO • A LA CARTE is a fUln guide to places to visit, things to do and · see in order to enjoy the province to tbe fullest. . TORONTO iS full of the Sights · and sounds of Canada's fastest growing metropolis. For further · information, · contact Fran Lewis at 449-3380 (mornings) or 869-9317 (home) . State Street, AI bany. The meeting will begin with a cash bar at 6:30 pm ·and dinner. at · .7:30 pm. For further in,.. formation, call 465-4755. The B:lake Experience. Dahab, Bedouin village in the Sinai. May 27- THE KING ANO I, starring Yul Brynner and Deborah Kerr, will be·shown at 2 and 8 pm at the Albany Public May 28-\Evolutien\, a film with animated chata.cters who poke fun at Darwin, \Pegasus\, an animated film about man's frustration with technology, \Up Here Lo()king Down\~ presenting biUboards in a new perspective, and \Mosaic\, an \Op'' art in film, will be sh~wn in Meeting Room 6 on the Concourse of the Empire State Plaza from 12-1 pm. For further information, ·Contact Tammis Groft at 47,g-7521. Moving to Union College from Skidmore, the 'Exhibition of WiUiam Blake's art opened officially in Schaffer Library May 19. The exhibition, based largely on the Ubrary's valuable collection of Trianon Press editions, as well as Skidmore materials, received high .praise from participants in , the recent Blake Symposiw;n at Union and Skidmore. Winter In Israel by FRAN TEITEL Library, ' 161 Washington Avenue. Brynner plays the virile and demanding 19th century King of Siam and Kerr is the crisp British governess, each of whom learns to ap- MUSIC Augmenting \the Blake e:x;perience'~ at the Library will be a descriptive catalogue . prepared by James McCord of the English Department and published by Schaffer Library For a change of pace and scenery, 28 students went on the term abroad to Israel this past winter. This term is different than the rest, and is designed to impart an experience that cannot be duplicate~ in the United States. There was not much time for · extensive traveling, since we rarely had a full weekend. However, the kibbutz took us on a few day trips around the country. The highlight trip was at the end when we camped out for four days in the Sinai. The trip was arranged through Kibbutz Dovrat, and all 28 Union students went together, with a leader from that kibbutz. . predate the other in the famous Rodgers and Hammersteiil musical. For furthe.r in- formation, contact Fran Lewis . at 449-3380 (mornings) or 869- 9317 (nome) . · May 27 -Ontario, Canada is in May 29-The Albany Sym- phony Orchestra, Inc. will hold its annual membership meeting at Jack's Restaurant, 40-42 · with funds from The Friends of Union College Library. -Blake posters are on sale for $1 at the Library circulation desk. The emibition is scheduled to extend through . Com- mencement. The program is based on the phenomena of kibbutz life, found only in Israel. A kibbutz is a collective farm where all the members share the work and the profits equally. By being .placed on the kibbutz, we were · accepted into their co:qununity and expected to do our share of work. Ten of us chose the option of living on a religious kibbutz. This also ·entailed the ob- servance of Orthodox Jewish law while on the kibbutz grounds. Upon arrival in Israel, we had to travel as a group from New York, we were taken to a small hotel in Tel-Aviv, Israel's largest and busiest city. For the next three days, we toured the small country, going as far north as the Lebanese border and as far south as the Dead Sea, which is the lowest point on. earth. After our third day of touring. the group was split. Eighteen people were dropped off at Kibbutz Dovrat, located in the northern part of the country. Three hours later, the rest of us arrived at Kibbutz Be'erot Yitzehak, situated in the middle of the country. We were glad to finally be \home.\ The next morning, we received our kibbutz orientation and work clothes. That af· ternoon, we were driven to the groves, shown the correct way to pick oranges, and did just that for two hours. Being our first day, they were letting us off easy. Day two began our regular schedule. Israel, unlike the United States, operates on a ~ix day work weelt. Since Be' erot Yitzchak observered the Jewish Sabbath on Saturday, we worked on full schedules Sunday through Friday. A typical day began by waking up at 6:30a.m. to prepare for our one class • intensive Hebrew • which began at 7:30, and lasted . / for four hours. After lunch, we ' were off to work for four hours. Jobs were assigned io us depending on what needed to be done that particular day. Our preferences for certain types of · work were also taken into ac- count when assigning jobs. -'i'o ease our adjustment to ltibbutz. life, each of us was \adopted\ by a family on the kibbutz. They were there to go to if we needed them. Since most of them were Americanst . they understood what problems we experienced. .. • ON TIE BOARD OF DIRE(l'ORS •22. Think of a ship as a corpora- tion, and it's not farfetched at all. A destroyer may have fifteen officers, other ships even fewer. Even the most junior officer gets to share in running the show. You become part of the management team when you get your commission as an ensign after just 16 weeks of lea:dership training at Officer Candidate SchooL . ,.· Choose to be a Navy officer and you are responsible for people and equipment almost immediately. Many officers go on for further advanced schooling. The Navy has literally dozens of fields for its officers- everything from nuclear pro- pulsion to systems analysis, - oceanographytoinvento~ management. In graduate school, this training would cost you tliousands, but in the Nc~vy, we pay you.~ Ask your Navy representa- tive abo!lt officer opportuni· ties, or mail this coupon for more information. Or call·., toll-free 800-841-8000 (in GA ca.1l toll-free 800-342-5855). There's no obligation, and you'll learn about an excellent way to start a career in management. As a college graduate you can get manage· m.ent experience in any indus- try. Eut you'll get it sooner-, and more of it-. in the Navy. r--.--· -----·------, I .NAVYOPPORTUNITY Cl40 I I INFORMATION CENTER I I P:O. Box 2000 1 Pelham Manor, New York l0803 I 0 Yes, I:m interested in becoming I a Navy Officer. Please send me · I more information. (jZ)G l I PLEASE PRINT) • lAST I Name. FIRST Address:~· --~\----___:~- ;I CitY'-----§tate--Zip--. I I I·. I Age-· tCollege/University·---- 1 :t;Gr.aduation Date-- ¢Grade Point-- l·t..Major/Minor-----~~- I I Phone Number I I (AREA CODE) CN6/80 l 'l'he More We Know, The More We Can Help. I The Privacy Act 11nder Title 10, Sectiail 503, ·1 005, and 510 states ·that you do not ba ve to · an.· swert.hepers.onalquestionsw. eh.ave.asked. 1 However,. the more we know, the more accurately we can determine your qualifica- I ~:.::::~':::~=-~=~---' NAVY OFFICERS lET RESPOISIBILRY FA$1. . ,A . .. Colle .~ THURS1 4:301 Much to the Agend Senate wa: caU amee' matter ha~ by EPC n request of that they such wo1 students aJ this decisi' that it is 1 Senate to At this 1 sure of the a quorun Divisions 1 but it at lea through_th PRO PO College gr< toward gr of C or AS300B, l taken at I and seni01 Libra In rest requests f facilities, agreed on Displa~ displays, 1 the discre but in organizati supported Committe Us~ps wil It's 1 \G s

OONOORDIENSIS, Na~2, 1980 Page 9 College Senate Agenda . rou-.• statement of responsibility. The Library hopes this policy will ensure equitable use for campus organizations, as well as diminish the occurrence of THURSDAY, MAY 2%, 1980 4:30 p.m. Old Chapel • exigent -situations. Much to everyone's surprise, the Agenda Cominittee of the Senate was asked to meet and call a meeting on the.22nd. The matter has to do with a decision by EPC not to accede to the . request of students in ROTC that they be given credit for such work. Two, of these . students are in effect appeaUrig this decision, and it is assumed' that it is their right to ask the Senate to consider the matter. · Selling lde,as There is going to be an Administrative and E n g i_n e e r in g Systems Colloquium on Thursday, May 8, 1980- 4:00p.m. in Room 207, ~ Bailey Hall, Union College. The lfl Topic is Selling Ideas and [ Products Through Mass Communications and the E speaker will be Richard K. ~ Manoff, President, Manoff >- International, Inc; .c u At this late date, no one is sure of the probability or getting a quorum for either the Divisions or the Senate' itself, but it at least should. be followed through. the proper form. Mr. Manoff is president of t Manoff Internatjonal, Inc., if international consultants and' pl~mners for mathematica-l communications programs, and chairman of, the board of west College Residents capitalize ~~-a ne\V ~curse en·try in the Spring curricull)m: SUN !o; The :. course is held every bea u.tiful day on top of the meat freezer behiml West. As if W_est and_ R_1chmond Beach weren't enough! Hey, pass title baby oil] PROPOSAL: That Union College grant two coQrse credits toward graduation for a grade of c or better in AS300A, AS300B, AS400A, and AS4QOB, taken at RPI during the junior and senior years. . Library Facilities_ Policy _. · i-4anoff, Geers and Gross, Inc., the advertising and marketing agency. On September 1, 1978 he was appointed adjunct full professor in the Department of Health Sciences, Sargent Colleg~ ·of Allied Health Professions, Boston University. There will be a film and slide presentation. Faculty, students and the , interested public ar.e invited. Gym Hall Vacated In response to increasing requests for the use of Library facilities, the Library faculty agreed on the following policy: In preparation for the Display cases, banner _ changes scheduled to begin this displays, etc. will be allowed at . summer which will transform the discretion of. the Librarian, Old Gym Hall into Stanley but in no instance to Becker Hall, all offices and organizations other than those facilities were removed from supported by the Student· Tax the building this week. Committee or its equivalent. Admissions Offices now occupy Us~_rs win be ask~d to write a . both floors of Whi~~~er H;ill, the former Dean of Students house at the South end of South . College. Financial Aid Offices and Counselling Ser-Vices have moved to Silliman Hall. Academic Opp,ortunity • Program Office is now housed on the third floor of Carnegie. It is hoped that the moves will be completed by the end of this week, and it is projected that Beck):lr Hall will be ready to be occupied again by October 1. -Tentative architectural plans for Becker Hall .show an im- pressive and efficient building. The main entrance will .: be shifted to the north side of the building. It. will open into a spacious waiting room which will be open to the roof, giving a striking view of 1;he ar- chitectural trusses and allowing lighting from two large skylights. The plans for private It's the war, of the waiters ... they .capture the kitchen, demolish the diningi room, and leave Camp Oskemo in ruins. QORP* *a bunch of fruits, nuts and flakes. SAMUEL Z. ARKOFF presents A JEFFREY KONVITZ PRODUCTION . ''GORP\ MICHAEL 'LEMB~CK • DENNIS QUAID • PHILIP CASNOFF : FRAN DRESGHER • PAVID HUDDLESTON story by JEFFREY KONVITZ and MARTIN ZWEIBACK screenptay by JEFFREY KONVITZ Pr.oduced by JEFRREY KONVITZ and LOUIS S .. ARKOFF Directed .by JOSEPH' RUBEN Color by MOVIELAB R . RESTRICtED ~ A PICTURE BYAMeRIC~N INTERNAnONAL · UNDER 17 REQUIRES ACCOMPANYING · PAR~NT OR ADULT GUARDIAN - COMING SOON TO A THEATRE OR DRIVE-IN NEAR 'OUI offices were characterized as \smaller but more efficient.\ The added space created will be · taken up by useful facilities not now provided. These include an audio-visual room for showing slides and college films to prospective students and others; a conference room for staff meeting and ~terviews; and a workspa~e to facilitate mailings, folder preparation, and storage. The present front door . .will still be used for direct access to Financial Aid Offices OJ:l.> the second floor. The new building will house only Admissions and Financial Aid. Final plans will not be decided upon until contracts are let. Health Planning On State level I There is going to be · an Administrative and Engineering Systems . Colloquium on Thursday, May 22, 1980 - 4:00 p.m. in' Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. The Topic is Health Planning at the State Level: A System That Can Work and the Speaker will be Mr. Jacob Getson, Director of the Office of State Health Planning & Assistant Com- missioner for the Department of Public Healtfi, · State of Massachusetts. Mr. Get son has been with the Office of State Health Planning since 1974. He was previously in the Health Pl:mning Office at the University of Massachusetts in Boston. Mr. Getson will speak on health planning at th~ state Rosenf~ld, and Jason Seiken share the award for the Allen Essay Prize. There were no winners of the Van Orden Essay Competition. All entries may be picked up from ·the English Department Secretary. Those who entered short stories for the Yudis Prize have been invited to submit them to the' Jd()l for con- sideration. Please contact ·Jamie Fortan, 382-9147. The English Department thanks all students who sub- mitted their work. North To Scotland Sophomore English major Ed Albro was chosen from five qualified candidates : to par- ticipate in the St. Andrew's Exchange program. He will be spending his junior year studying at the prestigious St. Andrew's University. As a student at St. Andrew's, Ed will be taking three year-long courses during which he will attend lectures and work closely witti a tutor. By living in a dorm with Scottish students and attending classes taught by Scottish professors. Ed will have a better opportunity to become involved in the day to level. a. Faculty, students and the >- interested public are invited. .o t fi: Engli_sh Dept. Contest Winners The English Department announces the following win- ners oftne Yudis PriZe for Short Fiction and the Allen Essay Prize: Howard Cooper, Stephen Ketyer, and Jason Seiken share the Yudis Prize for their short stories; Michael Rock. has received an \honorable men- tion\ for hi:s short sketch. I;aura Bernson, Robert rME~ OltEN DOOR. 136 Jay 346-2719 Downtown Schenectady day life of a foreign country than is offered during a normal · ten week term abroad. When asked why he wished to spend · his junior year in Scotland, Ed replied: \I think the main thing that attracted me to the St. Andrew's program is the op- portunity to compare the educational systems of St. Andrew's and Union. I'm v~y interested in the educational process, and the British system, as I understand it, is much more individual and self-motivated. In addition,. of course, I was attracted by the scholarship, the beauty of Scotland itself, and tb_e opportunity to travel around· Britain and Europe.\ At present, Ed plans to study English, Philosophy, and some course that is unique to St. Andrew's and can't be duplicated at Union. The academic year 1 runs from October to June and Ed plans to do some traveling -both before, during, and aftt:r the year. :•·

Page 10 OONCORDIENSIS, May SS, 1980 FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDU-LE (IMPORTANT: This exam schedule Is primarily for regular \day\ undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate Studies and Continuing Education courses will be announced, and students in \Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses, except for Adm~~oand Mgt. 252 (Sec. 52) and Statistics 202 (Sec. 51:) which are included here.) · Conflicts in examinations should be reported to.Mrs .. Lapidus in the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday, May 30; 1980. Examinations ·will be held in the assigned roQms. Listed below is the c~eOf the buildings to be used. AS-Arts Building BH-Bailey Hall BU-Buttei'field Hall HU-Humanitles Building . N-North Wing, Science Engr. Center OC-Oid Chapel PY-Psychology Laboratory SS-Social Sciences Building SH-Steinmetz Hall ~ .SATURDAY, JUNE 7 - 9-11:00 a.m. Liberal Learning 50--Special Topics in Geolagy--Q. Stone--HU 114 Liberal Learning 82--Sound and Music--Branch--BH 207 Latin 12--Latin Reading--Hendricks--HU 119 Economics 11--Eiementary Economics--Sec. 1-- Ginsberg--SS 113 English lOS--Literature of the Bible--Helnegg--SS 016 English 122--Major American Authors, The American Renaissance--McCord--HU 115 English 156--Shakespeare after 1600--Murphy--H U 110 History 122--American Constituti·onal and L.egal History: The State and the I ndividuai--AIIen--SS 117 History 142--Modern Germany: Bismarck to Hitler-- Hansen--SS 112 History 169--The Mexican Revolution--Brlstoi--SS 014 French 12--Basic French 111--Thomas--HU 116 Spanish 11--Basic Spanish 11--Valdes--HU 112 Political Science 11--Contemporary American Politlcs- ·Danlels--SS 012 Biology 13--Biology of Plants - Core II--Toblessen, Frohlich--HU 019 . Chemistry 10--Fundamental Chemistry I Sec. 1--Weick--BU 204 Sec. 2--Schaefer--BU 204 Sec. 3--Scaife--BU 204 Sec. 4--Scaife--BU 20-4 Chemistry 150--Physical Chemistry 1--Hayes--N 222 Mathematics 10--Calculus 1--Rosenthai--BH 108 Mathematics 18--lntroduction to Logic and Set Theory- -Falrchild--BH 201 Mathematics 24--Geometry, Selken--BH 10-4 Mathematlcs-41--Linear Algebra 1--Sec. 1--Cole--BH 203 Mathemati~s 185--Math~matlcal Models in the Life Sciences--Bick--Bfl 106 . Physics ll--lntroductlon to Physics I (Biology, Science, Humanities & Social Science Majors)-- Lichtenstein~_-SH 106 . Physics 13--lntroduction to Physics II (Physical Science and Engineering Majors)--Sec. 1--Reich--SH, 110 Physics 36--Methods of Theoretical Physics--Ohanian-- SH 219 Psychology ~4--Social Psychology~-Downing--PY 102 Psychology 33--Cognltive Psychology--Greenberg--PY 113 Psychology 37--Psychology thr·ough ,Literature-- Calabria--PY 213 E.S. 21--lntroductory Electric Cir:cuits--Deallenbach-- BU 109 , E.S. 33--Fiuid System Analysis--Sec. 2--Ketchum--SH 100 . C.E. 46--Hydraulics and Hydrology--Jeweii--BU 300 SATURDAY, JUNE 7- 2-4:00 p.m. German 11--Basic German·II--KeUenter--HU 116 Philosophy 49--Topics in Contemporary European Philosophy--Patrik--HU 110 Sociology 61--lnternship in the Delivery of Social,. Services--Kaplan--SS 113 . Chemistry 13-4--0r_g.:)nic; Chemistry 111--Quaai--BU. 106 Mathematics 12--Calculus II , Sec. 1--Bick--BH 106 Sec. 2--Muckenfuss--BH 20.7 Sec..,_ 3--Muckenfuss--B H 207 Mathematics 1-4--Calculus Ill Sec. 1--David--HU 115 Sec. 2--Barbanei--BH 201 . Sec. 3--Rosen--SS 1l5 . Mathematics 21--Mathematlcal Methods tor the Social Sciences II Sec. 1--David--HU 115 Sec. 2--Selken--BH 108 Mathematics 30--0rdlnary f?lfferential Equations Sec. 1--Stone--BH 203 Sec. 2--Maddaus--BH 104 Psychology 66--Seminar in Social Psychology-- Downlng--PY l02 E.S. 34--Systems Analysls--Jeweii--BU 109 . Mechanical Engineering 40--lntrodudlon to ~ ' . u Engineering· Design Sec. 1--UIIman- .. N 116 Sec. 2--E lsenstadt--SH 110 Third Term 1979-80 MONDAY, JUNE 9 - 9-11 :00 a.m. Art -40--Modern Art--Gi lbard--AB 104 Classics 28--1 ntrOduct.lon to Latin L ltera,ture--Ketterer- -HU' 110 Economics 11--Eiementary Ec:onomks--Sec:. 2--Lew.is-- SS 012 Economics 142--Macroeconomic iheory and Policy-- Wlese--SS 115 Economics 151 ,. Envlronmenta·l E c-on om lcs--Kenney-- HU 115 Economics 152--Energy Economics--Kieili--SS 014 English 121--Ma.jor English Authors 111--Murphy--HU 116 History 19·-ModernAmetit:a: The N;ew Deal and After- -Jonas--SS n2 History 139--Western I mperial.ism. in the Nineteenth and l'wentieth Century--Hansen--55 113 History 1'88-- The Holocaust-·Berk--SS 016 . French 141--From the Age of Louis XIV to the Age of Voltaire: The Discovery Of lndividualis!ft-- Mc:Dermott--HU l l7 German 132-- The Ger.man Novelle--Kellenter--HU 112 Russian 12--Basi.c 'Russian 111--Jernakof.f--HU 114 Spanish 132·-1 ntroductlon to Spanish Uterature-- Valdes--HU 016 • Political Science 12--Contempora.ry International Politics--Brown--HU 019 I\'\ Political Science 1!70,-Civll Liberties--Daniels--SS 117 Sociology 10--lntroductlon to Sodology--Sec. 2-- Hugglns--OC Biology 157--Piant Systematics.-Frohlich--BH~ 205 Chemistry 12--Fundameptal Chemistry tl Sec. 1--Schaefer-,BU 204 Sec. 2--W.eick--BU 204 Sec. 3--Schaefer--.BU 204 Mathematics 33--Abstract Algebra 11--Barbanei--BH 102 Physics 13--1 ntroducti.on · to Physics II (Biology, Science, Humanities and Social ·Science Majors)-- Haii--SH 110 . ' Physics 13--lntroduction to Physi~s II (Physical Science and EnglneeriAg Majors)--Sec. 2--0hanian-- SH 106 Psychology 35--0rganizational Psycho•ogy--Downing-. PY. 113 . Psychology 70--Seminar in Cognitive Psychology-- Gre.enbet'g--PY 204 Civil Engineering 41--legal Aspects. of Engineering-- Harlow--BU 106 · . Civil Engineering 47--Reinforced· Concrete Design-- Pikui--BU 300 Cam~uter Science 1 l-~FORTRAN Programming for the Social Sciences--Roe--BH 201 , ., Computer Science 12--FORTRAN Programming for the Sciences--Branch--BU 109 MONDAY,· JUNE 9 - 2-4:00 p.m. Liberal Learning11--James Joyce: Ulysses-;Peters<;>n- _-HU 110 Music 10--lntroductlon t.o Music--Wilson--AB 104 Economics 153--The Economy of China--Reynolds--55 113 . Engltsh 176--The American Novel, 11--Gado--HU 0·16 History 47--Brltish. History to 1688--Ailen--SS 115 History 82--Africans South of the Sahara: The Colonial Period and lndependence--Bn.stoi--SS 010 French 134--The French Language in Prac~ical Use 11-- Sec:. 1 & 2--E. Briere, J. Briere--HU 112 Philosophy 43--Metaphysics--Taylor--HU 115 . , Philosophy 50--Contemporary Etht(al TheC?ry--Baker-- HU 014 ~ Sociology 60--Methods of Social Research--Weiner, H.uggios--SS 112 Sociology 133--Personal ity and Social st-ructures-. Kaplan.-N 116 - .. Statistics 110--lntrcx;tuction to Statistical Methods-- Delahey--BH 205 American Studies 62--Advanced Theory Seminar--Nye- -HU Ol9 Geology 11--Historical Geo1ogy--~immermcm--BU 201 Mathematics 170--Topology 1--Zwicker--BH 203 Psychology 40--Seminar In Adolescence--Brital,n:·PY 113 E.S. 10--Mechanics I Sec. 1--Bingham--BU 106 Sec. 2--Eisenstadt--BU 109 E.S. 20--Mechanics 11--Panlllio--SH 101 c. E. 20--Land 1 Measurements: Theory and Ap- pllcation-.Male--BH 207 Computer Science _150--Programmlng Languages-- Goldbogen--BH 201 '· TUESDAY,·JUNE 10- 9-11:00 a.m. Classics 23--Histo-ry of Rome: The Emplre--Hendrkks- ·HU 116 Greek 12--Greek Readihg--Ketterer--HU 119 Economics 10--E lementary Economics--Sec. 1-- Ginsberg .. SS 113 · Economics 11--Eiementary Economics--Sec. 3--Wiese-- SS 117 _ Germahl-42--Romantik und Reallsmus...--Kellenter--HU 117 Spanish 12--6asic Spanish 111--Valdes--H U 112 \Spanish 134--The Spanish Language in 'Practical ·Use 1'1--Ghisberg•-HU ll4 Philosophy -45--Aesthetlcs--Patrlk--HU 110 Administration and Management 252--Behavioral Theory of Organizations--Sec. 5:2.--Gtaham--BH 201 . Accounting 10--Financial Accounting--Hurley--BH 205 Rioloqy 153--Advanced Ecology-·T.!?Piessen--BU 106 Biology 166--Bral.n and. Behavior--Markiewicz--PY 204 Chemistry 16--lnorganic Chemistry 1--Sc.;~lfe.--N· 116 Chemistry 30-,0rganlc Chemistry 1--Martin::::au 204 Chemistry 152-·Physkal Chemistry 11--Anderson--N 222 - Mathematics 13-4·-Differential Equations--Rosenthal-. BH fos · ~ -- Pf:lysh::s 11--lntroductlon to Physi.cs I (f!hysic~l Science and Engineering Science Majors)--Titus--SH l~ and SH 101 'Psychology ro\:A First Course iiJ Psychology--Sec. 1-- HtmUey--PY 102 . . Psychology 166-.Brain and Behavior--Mark-iewicz,.py · E _g~~2c-Sc i~~ce' of Eng i.neerihg Materials--Mi-l Hlo-- H l:J 115 E.S. 43--Fiuid Sys1ems Ah-gylsis--Sec. 1--Jew~II--SS. 115 C. S. l4-•COBOL and_t~formatiQil Process il)g--Schwarz- - BU 109 , . . . ' C.'S. lB--1 Mrodutti\>n to Digital C9mputers--Goodheart- -B·H 207 . ..1 .... TUESDAY, JUNE 10- 2-4:00 p.m; Ub~ral Learning 39--lntroduction to the Study of Sex Roles--Britain--PY 102 · Ecooomics 162--Seminar in Financiai--Analysis--Lewis- ·SS 0.12 English 118--lntroduction to the Study of Uterary Forms--GadO--HU 116 History 127--The Development of the Ani~rican Economy-\Finkelstein--SS 117 . Hebrew 12--Basic Hebrew 111--Heckelman--HU 016 Ph I losophy 11--Phi l'osophica I C lassies--Pe\terson--HU 110 . - PhUosophy 32--Modern Philosophy--Ludwig--HU 117 Philosophy 61--Philosophy of Religi.on--Morris--HU 114 Philosophy 81--Selected Topics in Social and Political Philosophy--Baker--HU 112 ... . . Political· Scierke 153--lnternational Politics in East ~Asia--Thvrston--Ss 112 . ~ Sociology 44·-Urban Anthropology--Gmelch--SS 115 Statistics 202--Statis:tical Methods--Sec. 51--Schmee-- BH 203 . . American Studies 61--Sophomore Seminar: American Material Culture--Brod--HU 014 Accounting 10~-Financial Accounting--Mercer--BH 205 · . Biology 164--E:thology--GeQrge--N 116 Psychology 65--Seminar ll---Girdner--PY 113 E_..S. 24---E:Iectri~ Circuits--Sec. 1 ·& 2--Russ--BH 207 E.S. 70--Mahagerial and Engineering Economics-- Sigley---HU 115 . C.S:- 1·EJ?-~ Programming Project--G. Williams--SH 10·1 · WEDNESDAY,JUNE 11- 9-ll :OOa.m. F resl:lman E lectlve -41--lrnages of the City--Hendricks-- HU 014 Liberal Learning 80--Dilemmas of Physical Resources, Sec. 1--Ketchum--BU 20-4 Set. 2--Martin--B'U 204 - English 174-·The American Short Story--Gado--HU 114 History 36--A Survey of Modern, Europe, ( 1715- 1945) Berk\-H U 019 · . History 141--Contemporary Europe--Hansen--55 112 French 130--Readings in Contemporary French Literature--McDermott--H U 116 · German 12--Basic German 111--Straif-T.;~ylor--HU no Spanish 143--Tile Conterrlporary Spanish Novel--· Ginsberg--HU 112 . . Pbilosophy 21--Symbolic Logic-:-Ludwig--HU 117 · Political Scietlce 155--lnternational Security Affalrs-- Johnson--SS 113 Sociology 10--lntroduction to SQ.ciology--Sec: 1--Weiner- -HU 115 Sociology· 150--Socioldgy of Complex Organlzations-- Schneller--SS OM ~ Biology 12~-The Cell--Core 111--Butterstein, Smith.:SS OM . E!iology •130--Comparat,lve Animal Physlology-- Lambert--BU 109 Biology-1.59--Piant Physlology--Biretka\-N 222 Chemistry- 40--Q.vantitative Chernistry--Werner--N 116 Mathematics 41•-Linear Argebra 1--~ec. 2--Stone--BH 203 - Mathematics llrl--Advariced Cal.culus for Engineers-- - Cole--BH 104 - . , Mathematics 127--Numerical. Analysis--Rosen--BH 106 · Physics 14--Eiements of Modern Physlcs--Pilcher·-SH . 110 Physics 22\·Eiect.ron.ic Circlilfs--Jones--~H 219 . Physics 42·-Great Ideas of Modern Physu;:s--Ohanlan-- BH 201 · . · Physics 44--lntroductlon to Astronomy--Titus--SH 106 Psychology lO--A First Course In Psychology--Sec. 2-- Girdner~,.py n!J Psychoiogy 31 -- Abnorf!l_ct!_Psycholog.y •·• Nydeggar-- PY 102 Psychology 38 .. _Developmental Psy_chology •. Britain -- PY 213 _ C,E~ 50--Environmental Engineering 1_1--Snow--BU 106 E. E .• 33--Analysls and Design of Electronic Circuits-- Chang--BH 20.5. · C.S. 20--Machine arid Assembly Language--Goldbogen- ·BH 207 C.S. 22~-FORTRAN and Numerlca.l Methods--G. Williams--SH 101 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11 -2~4:00 p.m. Economics 10--Eiementary ·Economics--Sec. 2 & 3-- Prosper--SS 016 . . Economics 131--Microeconomic Analysis·-Sec. 1 ·& 2-- Reynolds--SS lJ5 __ Italian TO--Basic ltallan--Ziteiii--HU. 115 - BULL I ·Frida ApplicE Porter, are av Joseph Buildil scholar gradua plan t School. J.uly 15 --· Any1 that w (Fresh Stu den Mlke .J. Affairs that :w format ·to Stuc Anyc usher cerem1 Andoli.J Affair~ The

BULLETIN BOAR[j OONOORDJjjjNS'IS, May SS, 1980 cla6sifiebs ·: picnic will be held in Jackson's • Gardens this Friday, May 23, I ,;..---- ........ ------..from 4:3~:3(). There will be · • hamburgers, hot dogs, soda and offering a · 9-month program (combination .classroom and on- the-job training). Students with 'BS-Cornputer Science or Computer Science as a minor. Please call Vic Kulpa on (215) 241-{)501 collect .if you are· in- terested. BUilding No.5, Albany, N.Y. or contact Regional Department of Transportation--Personnel Department.- PEANUTS, BEER and BAND - Friday, 2.p.m., at Delta Chi Applications forms for Saxton, Porter, and Speir Scholarships are available· from Professor Joseph Board, Social Sciences Building, room 216. These scholarships are awarded to graduates of Union College who plan to attend Albany Law School. Applications are· due by J.uly 15, 1980. , Any new club or organization that wants to be listed in the (Freshman) Record and the Student Handbook, ·please see Mike .Andolina in the Student Affairs Office .. -Existing clubs that want to update their in~ . formation please .send material to Student Affairs. . ' Anyone interested in being an usher for commencement ceremonies please contact Mike Andolina, Office of Student Affairs. The Psychology department . . ~er. AdmissiDn price $LOO. All · • mterested people are invited to · attend. . Loft for sale--includes desk, clDset, shelves. 4' x 8' x 5'. Best : offer. Call 382-51165. · · Summer sublet in the Stockade. Sunny, comfortable apartment, available June- Sept~mber.. $175 per .. month. Contact Professor Clinton, History Department, 370-6220. Ride wanted to California or any points west. For two. . Leaving anytime. Call Tanuny, · 370-3634. Share ,driving and · expenses. - Ride needed to Northwestern U.S. (Idaho. or thereapouts) around June 23. Tamson Scott- 377•9229 . PLACEMENT GE Information Services, Wolf Road, Albany, N.Y., is Eniroplan, Rutherford, New Jersey, need a field engineer or someone with an Electronics background to .monitor equipment in the air {this is a plus). Should 6e able to operate . and maintain air quality sites. Terriroty to be covered would be in New York Metropolitan area with concentration on Western Rockland County. Contact Matt Swan on (201) 935-· 5098. Construction Inspectors needed throughout New York State. Jobs will run from Aprill to December 31. Student should · have completed one year· of enginetlring or one year . technical program from a 2- year or 4-year· college or 2 seasons of appropriate ex- perience in construction work. s·alary $6.50 per hour. Call . · Theodore Weiskotten, New Yor:k State Department of Transportation, State Campus, ~ERSONALS H.M. Baby, Love those little darling's-Treble Clef Baby H.M., Keep those Little darling's,bouncing-Mu~ic Man. RSB,. You take clerical job? You know, type, answer phone, etc.-MHL S.-We'll have the argument for two, please-P. Sidmore may give more-but they didn't give enough-- congratulations-Little Darli- . ngs!! 2nd _ Floor West Little Darlings are ~o. 1. Sue, Here is the personal I always promised you: When are we going out to dinner?-WTL To \Yo\; When are you going to get a new shirt? Keep on picking-CM UNION COLLEGE CLASS OF 1980 THIS BUD'S ' FOR YOU! ' r .. ' .. j KING OF BEE~®• ANHEUSER-BUSCH. INC • ST LOUIS Page 11 To the girl that doesn't know an~hing: don't be so hard on yourself. I'm sure you'll learn something someday.-Chris. Wanted-One roommate· with gas mask, able to withstand heaVy body .odor-6479. Ask for Alan. A.W., P.W. (or C.W.), T.W., B.W., and anyone else: 1st ANNUAL \WASTE WEEKEND'' Are we psyched!? .., Scene 245: A-worn asks if anyone wants dessert-- Everyone does! Katie--Smith's re-gain is Union's loss. We're all gonna miss you. Thank God Katie, it will soon \ be over.-N. If anyone wants to be a Roadie for Jerry Jeff call Nevih Dubin at 382-9396. Jim-No fair using the bunny! That's hitting below the belt!-- Pam 'J,'ex-Love that hat! When are we going to ride- off into the sunset? P.S. You know what Freud had to say about hats! Dave-Best wishes for your new life in California. I hope I'll be part of it soon .if all goes well. You're still first. Take care and write. Love you.-Buddy Hey SIMONS! ! ! Now we're even-Richie B.M.-How long does it take to wash off mud that's caked on your body? P .S.--I'm still waiting to see your \Roo-ach\ T-shirt. · Men's Lax: We'll miss it all,, the long rides, carefully chosen· seating arrangements, hotel accomodations, endless arrays of numbers and slashmar:ks.- Tha.nks for taking the time to ·~ include us-we loved it! . Milgram ... Continued frora page 1 5 · work_with \Cyranoids\ (named after Cyrano de Bergerac) who are people who speak words that are transmitted to them by radio. Reminiscent of the garden scene in Cyrano, the \Cyranoid\ is a person wired 'With a radio transmitter receiver and an earphone and is able to say words \fed\ to him ' by the person at the other end of the system. Dr. Milgram has studied the effects that talking to a '.'Cyranoid\. has on an unknowing subject and sees~ possible applications for this system. \If you can imagine a police officer in a hostage situation who can switch into the 'cyanic' mode of his radio and be instructed what to say by a qualified hostage psychologist.\ · Dr. Milgram was then asked by Professor Baker (who teaches the course \Bioethics\) if ill hindsight, he would conduct his controvercial obedience experiment again. D_r. Milgram responded, ''I like the experiment. There are some I have conducted that now I believe were mistakes, but this is not one . . . The real con· troversy in the obedience ex· periment was tl).e results. if the results had shown what people had wanted to see, it would have .passed right by.\ Professor Baker followed his question by asking Milgram about the morality of the experiment. Milgram replied, ''I think that the experiment was very moral. The person was confronted with a human cboice~\ ,._ \

Page 12. . . OONOORDJENSIS, May 2\! 1 198() sports A View From The Stands I by DOUG SILVERSTEIN A while ago I wrote an article concerning the decreasing interest in the New York Knicks in the NBA. This _article is an attempt to attack the problem of decreasing 'interest in the whole NBA and from an entirely different angle, that from the broadcast booth. On Sunday afternoons we are subjected to the ignorant and incoherent voices of Brent Musburger, \Hot Rod\ Hundley, and Bill RusselL Some good points are conveyed, but on a whole, these men and CBS Sports have handled basketball games in an im:,ldequate manner which I believe appalls many viewers and causes them to be turned off to professional basketball. Let's take CBS practices as a first consideration. Primarily, there is a limited scope of- · games broadcast.. The most populated region, the northeast, was shown Philadelphia, Boston, and Los Angeles too often. After a while the viewer could wind up dreaming about Larry Bird, the \Great White Hope,\ att~cking them in their sleep. Granted, these teams were the three best teams in the - league this past season, however, variety may have been functional in expanding the scope of fan interest in the NBA. For years, CBS has overexposed the ranked teams and underexposed those teams with· quality ballplayers and efficient styles of play that would easily attract the con- cerned fan. Secondly, the policy of showing the famous Darryl Bawkins dunk (in which he shattered the backboard) continually could not be con- sidered in any manner moralistic. The theory that the scene attracted. viewers is very skeptical. One need only turn to the 11:00 news to see the great feat. In addition, this is aopoor model, a la Bandura,. for the young fan. It would seem more logical to show a graceful move by Julius Erving or Nate Archibald on the pre-game show or in commercials. Finally, the introduction of Dawkins, who is black, as \Chocolate Thunder, from the planet of Lovetron\ leaves in serious aoubt the intelligence of those running the show at CBS Sports. Dawkins may have consented, but this was ~tn overt racial and ~ prejudicial statement that in no doubt was heard by numerous angry and disgusted viewers. Concerning the broadcasters, one cannot overemphasize the inadequacies of the \Three Musburgteers.'' Brent Mus burger, who has· become the new voice of CBS Sports, is a totally inept anchorperson. He truly lacks sufficient knQwledge of the game. Making such statements that Jabbar really deserves a championship with Julius Erving standing on the court implies that \abdUl\ wants it more than Erving. After all, Erving ruled the underpublicized ABA for years, failed to win a crown in Philadelphia a few years back, and longs for the prestige in- deed. In addition, Musburger tends to be ostentatiously partial and in the process almost roots for one team while the contest. is in progress. It was obvious he favored Phila~lphia over Atlanta and Seattle over ·Milwaukee in those playoff series. A good announcer should leave the viewer in confusion of which team the announcer supports. Their. job is to report, not root. Furthermore, I'm sure or: Over Played by DAVE RUDEN With both the basketball and hockey playoffs j~- about ; completed, many will now focus their attention on the upcoming baseball season. But before closing the book on the winter sports, one might study ther playoff structure in comparison to the playoff system in baseball. They could learn a lot. Very few will argue that Los Angeles and Philadelphia deserved to be in the playoffs, but many will argue about the way they got there. Twelve of the 22 teams in the league made ii to the playoffs. Because of this, basketball enthusiasts are enabled to enjoy their favorite sport for an additional month and one half. Even the most loyal spectator has had enough come May. Why should teams with sub-.500 -records like Washington and Portland be given the same opportunity for a championship with teams like Los Angeles and Philadelphia, teams that played above .600 ball? Even more ridiculous is the situation in hockey. The teams play an eighty game schedule to eliminate five of the 21 teams from playoff competition. Because of this, hockey buffs have to pay between fifteen and twenty dollars a ticket to watch the likes of Hartford and Edmonton compete with the Montreals for the Stanley Cup. Enough said. The point is these playoff systems have become too much of a money making venture. In contrast, baseball has a very exciting playoff system that lasts· three weeks at the most. One team from. each of the four divisions in the two leagues makes it to the playoffs. This means that the baseball playoffs. are usually of the highest quality because only the. best teams make them. There also seems to be a higher in- terest in the baseball playoffs than in hockey's or basketball's. E3:ch game becomes more important. Of course, the underlying reason for the diluted talent in the playoffs is money. The same people who pay the outrageous salaries propose the playoff games. As long as they continue_ to make money from them, the system will never change .. If the woners feel the fans are in- terested_~ and the stadiums keep filling up, . the status quo will re01ain. . What can be done to correct .the problem? The first and hardest solution is the ac- ceptance that there is a problem. Once this is done, the next step is to scrap the present systems and replace them with new ones. In basketball, maybe have the top two teams in each of the four divisions get into the playoffs, while the same can be done in hockey. This way you would have only the best teams in the league getting into the playoffs. This will increase fan inte:r~fot which will, in turn, increase television ratings. This could also m..{lan a regular season television contract for -~ -----------------------------------------------· 464 State St. we deliver . . . Schenectady - 374-1.888- hockey. , It seems ridiculous for teams to play 80 game seasons just to .. separate a few teams from the pack. If the winter sports are to reach the pealf they attained midway through the past ,;,decade, changes will have to be made soon, before the situation gets out of hand. - Litvinov • Continued from page 5 u.s.s:R., but wished to keep a low profile so th.at there wouldn't be much publicity in the West. The impact of this action on most Soviet in- tellectuals was not that desired by the regime, however. Many people in the Soviet Union, even some \official\ writers for the regime, began to \politely\ · demand free, open trials and more freedom of expression. A peaceful demonstration was. staged demanding that the government live up to the Soviet constitution and also deman- ding legality. The government punished the participants in this demonstration, but most of them got off relatively lightly, expelled from .the university or fired fr.om their jobs. This demonstration was an in- dication of things to come, serving as a prototype for future protests. • There wa,s a feeling among many in the USSR that after the Soviets invaded Czechoslovakia all dissidents should take to the streets, in protest. However, few people were aware of the invasion because of the radio jam, as 'the invasion had only · received a . one-sentence mention in the Soviet press, and even then wasn't explicit. On Aug. 25, a group of dissidents, including Litvinov, .gathered in Moscow's Red Square to protest. Litvinov recalls · being followed by two cars of KGB agents, who knew that the dissidents · wouid make some protest though they didn't know when. The demonstrators .- carried\'slogans expressing supoort for C~echoslovakia. you've he;ird a play .ann()unced by Musburger as such: '' Abdui with the hood, no good, J with the rebound, he dishes it aff to Lionel. Lionel, guarded_ 'closely- by Norman, leads C.J. with a pass who outquels Jamaal for the baU, feeds the ball .off to B.J. who j;:~ms it home,\ My question is, how dose is \Brent'' with the players that he ;can totally eliminate last mimes from his vocabulary. If one was to turn on the game and momentarily lose the picture, he tnay think he had tuned in to the Waltons' Thanksgiving Dinner. If one was to compare the trio Of Musburger, Hundley, and Russell to that of Enberg, Packer and McGuire of NBC (who deliver college games), the latterL three appe;;tr more impartial, informative, and tend ~0 create a more spirited and continual flow. than the former three. Perhaps this is one reason, quite possibly a minor one, why college basketballjnterest has recently surpassed pro basketball in- terest. I think that it is time that CBS Sports reevaluates its quality of broadcasters and takes a positive step towardsthe future. Although the playoffs do draw a countless amount of viewers, the regular season games are still necessarY in order to elevate revenue and fan in- terest, ;md it. is during this time that Brent, Rod, and Bill per- form their worst. Making racial statements, creating a . biased atmosphere, and pretending to be knowledgeablre and personal with the players will soon catch UQ With the station· and work to its disadvantage. BLOCK U SPORTS BANQUET FRIDAY, MAY 23rd AT.THE EDISON CLUB All students are wel-comed $.6.00 for date of Varsity Athlete $10.00 for all other students • Litvinov used \For your freedom and ours\-a bistarical slogan d~ting bacis. to the 1860s, when . Russia had invaded _ Poland. For about two minutes, ac- cording to Litvinov, the dissidents were sitting alone in the square; their only audience was KGB agents and the foreign journalists ~lVhO had been in- vited by the dissidents. The Square was filled with a nUIIlber of tourists, but at first most of these were nat near the demonstrators. The KGB agents tore away the slogans from the protestors and began to beat them, which drew the crowds close. The dissidents ._tried to ,explain what they were protesting for, while the KGB continued to beat them, calling them \parasites\ and \kikes\ to discredit them, with what Litvinov called \the typical maneuver to label dissidents as Jews.\ The demonstrators were soon removed from the scene and taken to · a local police station. . After sear,ches of their apartments, th~y were even- tually taken to prison to await trial. They were finally trie..d in a theoretically open,. but in fact closed trial, and sentenced. Among the dissidents, some - .were sent to labor ca01ps, one was sent to a mental institution, and Li.tvinov and two others were exiled to Siberia. Litvinov was sentenced to exile in Siberia for five years, and his wife and children were allowed to join him there. He feels. that he was treated more leniently than most because he was too well kno.~-the r~gime didn't want him as a martyr. In 1972, he was released and returned to Moscow, where he was unable to find a job in his field of obtain a permit to live with his family. He resumed his dissident activities, and in December 1973, he was once again arrested and given the choice of permanent exile in Siberia or leaving the country. He came to the U.S., and now teaches advanced physics at a private school in Tarrytown, N.Y. He continues his dissident activities, speaking. to groups and informing them about conditions in the Soviet Union. He helps to support Soviet dissidents by getting their cases publicized. He is an editor ofihe publication, \A Chronical of Human Rights in the U.S.S.R.,\ which is a receiving point for samizdat from. the East. Litvinov pursues his human rights activities . because he .feels it is his duty to do so. He feels that most people in the Soviei Union are characterized by a \cynical j.ndifference,\ believing that nothing can be done to change anything, so it's best to try to stay out of trouble and try to advance one's self in whatever way possiblE:.- He feels that the fUnction of the dissident movement is to try to inform these people. As he says, \A government is only as strong as the people believe it to be,\ and he feels that criticis:rn of the regime may eventually bring about change, even thou·gh .· sacrifices may have to be made. Litvinov accepted the sacrifice of leaving his country, which he says he feels very culturally attached to, in order to continue to express- his views on the things he believes in and will hopefully have some· eventual effect on bringing about change. t: Q ·- :: = H1 wl F Co cerer signi they forrr. Colle Be Unio take choi< mea: men thin~ Aari grad .educ \I time sorn dipl4 say Ar up f pro~ any cre1 COUI for deg1 . Tl 150 yea1 will ti!Ill adv Uni4 c ''M~ mis offe artf ted ted the T Wa Edt (El Ret Ace def: Col to~ lOni Uni the sW rel4 Thl cip thr acl cit fas arc 1 ten st11 dis

I d e s a e y l- s ~f a • a ;, e 0 l- e ·- l'l d 0 tl h 0 ld 1e is re is ln ~e 1e in y. w a n, nt :>S ~t n. et es le of \ or m .le le .le ~d \ Je ;'s :le in ~Is nt m 'A as td ae lg ~h !e. ce !le ly 11e 1e ill al e. \ ,. • May 29, 19.80 · Volume 109, No. 25 • Housing Problems Reported Hugh Allen Wilson will beading Arts ChairpersoA for 1980'81 whi'le a permanent chairperson· is being selected. ~;. by EDWARD ALB8() This year's housing lottery again ended with com- plications, ·.changes., and problems. The major problem facing Housing director Dave Wood now is the need to find housing for thirty-four women who were closed out ()f on- campus housing. Six spaces were created when three lounges in Richmond were converted to upperclasslilan doubles. Alternatives are still being analyzed in the search for housing for the other twenty- eight women. Housing officials Free Courses For Grads are collecting summer attrition figures in order to decide how many spaces can be expected to open by September. In addition, the possibilities of renting area houses or acquiring rooms in the three area motels are also being cconsidered. Campus crowding forced the creation of one more five-man suite, to make a total of thirty-two, and the institution, for the first time, of twelve five-woman suites. Also, three South doubles were converted to triples. \With the increasing numbers of women on campus, we decided that they should face the over- crowding on a three to two ratio,\ Wood said. Thus, threre will be only one iour-woman freshman suite. Finally, the Bronner co-op was dissolved and those facilities made a part of Nerth College. College c.ornmencement years. ceremonies are supposed to Feinsot said the program is signify a beginning. But ,often an attempt to help Union they signal an end, at least to graduates continue lifelong formal education. Union learning. College wants to change that. He said: \Heretofore Beginning in the summer, colleges have implicitly Union graduates will be able to suggested that learning ends take two free courses of their once a student gets· a. degree. choice. That just isn't true. This is a \We're trying to pl\t some commitment on the part of meaning into the word 'com- Union College to the idea that - men cement.' There is no such once a person has received an thing as closure in education,\ UI)dergraduate or graduate Aaron Feinsot, dean of <:Uploma, he should not consider graduate studies and continuing his education completed. - -education, said. \There· is no such thing as a number taking advantage of it already would be enrolled in courses. Union has had no problem attracting students to -its part- time offerings. During tile last five years enrollments have risen about 15 percent annually. There are about 1;80() un- dergraduate and graduate students. · Following the two-year- tr-ial, the program, which may be the only one of its kind in the nation, will be evaluated and modified if necessary. Wood reported that in view of the increasing problems faced in campus housing, the housing committee is preparing a report on the extent and severity of overcrowding, its effects, and some possible solutions. The report, which should be finished soon, will be presented to College administration and trustees for their consideration. Wood gave approximate statistics of campus crowding, illustrating the problem. This ~ Fina1 Senat~ Meeting Held: year the percent occupancy of campus buildings was 101.2 per cent in the fall, 99.9 per cent in the winter, and 100.8 per cent in the spring. Next . year it is projected that fall term oc- cupancy will be at 105 per cent. Figures of over 100 per cent occupancy indicate the use of five-person suites and the hmtsing of students in alternate facilities (such as lounges of motels). 220 people and 41.5 per cent of the freshman class will be living in overcrowded situations. ''For the next few years,\ Wood said, \I don't see any let up (in the situation).\ Wood gave a mnnber of reasons for both this year's problem and the overall trend toward campus crowding. Specific reasons were that 93 per cent of all freshman women wished to stay on campus next year .and. that the nmnber of freshman commuters · dropped from thirty-six this year to only twelve next year. More generally, he reported that students found that the diminishing amount of money saved by moving off campus no longer offset the inconveniences off-campus living presented. Thus, on-campus housing has become more and more desirable. Continued on page 7 \I've had a feeling for a long finished st-udent. One should time that a college has to do, remain a student all ·of one's- something more than give a life. That is the way to be a diploma to a student and then really vital person.\ say goodbye.\ · - By next fall, Union un- Any Union alumnus can sign , dergraduate and graduate up for the continuing education course will cost between $325 program. Graduates may take and $400 each. Feinsot noted any undergraduate or graduate that some graduate degrees credit-bearing course. The require as few as nine courses, courses may be audited, taken and that this program could for credit or applied toward a • mean that 25 to 30 percent of the degree where appropriate. _ cost of such a program would be ROTC Credit Denied The program will be open to paid by the college. 150 persons a year for a two- He said there is no cost year trial. June 1980 graduates. estimate on the program. While will have five years from the acknowledging the program time the program begins to take could benefit the college by advantage of the offer; all other attracting new students, Union alumni will have thtee Feinsot said he expected a The last meeting of the All· College Senate was held last Thursday afternoon in the Old Chapel. The Senate, which will be abolished under tl1e new governance system, m~t to consider a proposal ttlat the College grant a total of two course credits for grades of C or better in four Air Force ROTC courses taken by Union ROTC students at RPI during their junior and senior year-s. The motion failed by a vote of twelve Comments On liberal Arts by ANDREA BOWERS \May we not say that the mission of ·union College is to offer an education in the liberal arts appropriate to the age of technqlogy and a training in technology commensurate with the goals of the liberal arts?\ students will have the chance to study a vocation within a liberal arts environment, may or may not have bearing on their choice. There are other students who matriculate into Union out of a belief in 'a liberal arts education. Their attraction to a well-ro~nded education may serve initially as the only criterion for their choice. Yet, at some point in their colleg\' career, most students feel pressured to discover a discipline which they might use as a stepping-stone into the labor force. It has become in- ~ clear, that cuu'\F'>\'\\\ a liberal arts education, students expect their four year's investment to directly profit them in a futllfe oc- cupation. This expectation has become more urgent in light of the comJ)etitive natnre of the job market and the exorbitant expenses involved in a liberal arts education. Although some might prefer attending a liberal arts school, many students are considering • alternatives which provide a more direct route towards securing an occupati()n, and are Continued on page 7 -· to nine. The meeting began with the polling of the results of votes taken within the four divisions on this issue. Division I, Humanities, reported a unanimously negative vote, Divisions II and III, Social Sciences and Sciences, -voted overwhelmingly negatively-, while Division IV, Engineering, reported unanimous support for the measure. Approximately 90 per cent of ROTC students at Union ar.:e engineering majors. Educational Policy Com- mittee Chairman Anton Warde opened · discussion of the proposal by explaining the EPC's rationale in recom- mending defeat of the measure. \Members of the Committee perceive AFROTC trainfng to be a valuable extracurricular garnering of knowledge and quite clearly an advantage to (the participants) professionally. Nevertheless, in the final analysis, the Corn- mitt'ee judged that these extra benefits should remain extras in every other respect as well and not become a substitute for the kind (and quality) of courses that we try tG- offer at Union,\ Warde said. In addition, Warde reported that the EPC was not l'onvinced that the program was truly academic and, in view of the policy that the school does not give credit for 'life ex- perience', decided to recom- mend against granting credit. .St'p.dent Body President-Elect Dave O'Connor expressed his belief, based on observation of EPC meetings, that the Com- mittee had. changed its position in response to the fact that other prestigious colleges declined to give credit for ROTC studies. Warde replied that 'while the Conimittee had started with a predisiposition to support the motion, this feeling was changed when they learned of the financial rewards of ROTC training. O'Connor went on to express his belief that ROTC training was a \total learning ex-- perience, not at all seperated from education.\ Finally, he found it unreasonable to expect ROTC students, most of whom are engineers, to complete thirty-seven and one half credits, a measure which is still under consideration, and ROTC requirements. The Senate as a whole disagreed, however, as the first vote defeated the measure. These comments of Anton Warde, ·chairman of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) and Liaison Representative for Faculty and . Academic Program, attempt to def-ine the \mission of Union College as the EPC endeavors to provide the groundwol'k for a long-term curricular plan at Union.\ These words convey the need of the liberal arts in- stitution to reassert its relevance in today's society. The United States has prin· cipally defined its growth through its technological achievements and thus its citizens are pressured to fashion their own productivity around these values. Cap And Gown Update There are students who at· tend Union College in order to study a specific vocational discipline, The fact that these Union College Bookstore, which is handling the ()t'dering of caps and gowns for graduating seniors, has decided not to boycott Cottrell & Leonard, the ~ompany manufacturing the gowns. However, for students con- cerned about th..e strik:e at this company, there will be an alt~rnative co:q~pan.y from which to order a cap and gown. Pamela Ryan, a Women's Network member, has been in contact with representatives of the Women's Garment Workers Union in an effort to find this alternative. Wednesday, May 28, Ms. Ryan will be finding out the name of a company which will guarantee Union two hun?red caps and gowns. Those seniors wishing to boycott Cottrell & Leonard and order their gown from the· other company may do so by con- tacting Ms. Ryan· at. 346-0414 today. Any senior who has already ordered a gown from .cottrell & Leonard can cancel their order and receive a full refund from the Bookstore up until this Friday, May 30th.

Page 2 CONCOR,DIENSIS 1 May 29, 1980 -Editorial--.. As is appropriate as the· school year draws to its end; I'd like to take this opportunlty to review my tenure as Editor-in-Chief. I can honestly admit that it's been a. very worthwhile experience, and: one that l've enjoyed very much. It is not, however, a job l would try to tackle mvself. A great deal of the pleasure I received was due to the tine editorial board that worked with me. Before I venture to express my gratitude to those people, I would like. to acknowledge the fact that had I not had the opportunity to learn from the actions of the past editors, I would have undoubtedly experienced greater difficulties in fulfilling the requirements of Editor. I would also like to congratulate Julie Isgro and Jim Davis on their selection as next year's Editors-in-Chief, with the hope that they will find it equally rewarding. Probably the best way I can aid Jim and Julie in their unde·rtaking is to list what I see as the areas most needing improvement on Concordiensis: Com- mWlication of what readers want to see; increased student ,involvement in the writing and production of the paper ··if you're really interested and concerned in the quallty of Concordiensis, we welcome your suggestions and acUte in- volvement; and the attitude with which the campus community receives the paper. But, the best asset a paper can have is its staff. Topping off my list of staff members to thank is Sara Simmons, wh.o, after serving two terms as the first female Editor-.in-Chlef in Concordi.ensts history, .stayed on to aid us in many areas 1n which she is ex:pertenced (often this resulted In her doing two, three, or four jobs at once). Next, there's Paul Feinsot. His :partnership during the first term helped produce the framework from which both term's papers were produced. The rest of my gratitude is extended to E.d Albro and Ellen van Dyke (News); Paul Grossman, Barb Plotkin, and Dan Booth (Features); Mandy AbramsandJud.iChervenak(Arts and Culture}; Mark Palomba, Rich Hope, Bill Curtain andChris Phelan {Sports); Pam Ryan, Norm Pflaster, and Jeff Steinberg (Photos); Sue Marr, and Rachel Mandel (Layout); Julie Isgro and Larry Leavitt (Business); Jim Davis (Management); Ellen Rubin (Typing); Ellen Berger and Marla Manfredonia (Calendar) and the depen- dables --Andrea Bowers, Sharon Camins, Fran Teitel,. Tom Conway, Mitch Chess, Bob Fox, Mindy Broser, Alan Blnkow, and Irwin Menken. I also thank the Publications Office, Administrators, Faculty, Forum and Committee members who have kept us informed throughout the year. I ~ongratulate Lorraine Marra on retaining her sanity throughout the year; her continual support and the encouragement could not be surpassed. Of course, our friends at Susquehanna Publishers must not be forgotten; they 'went out of their way many times in order to assure us the best possible paper. And finally, I thank you, the readers, for giving me the opportunity to take an active role in the campus community. I realize that my tenure was not without fault, but at the same time I am not without the hope that the publications were enjoyable and informative. I end the term with a cheer, not because I am through with the hassles (although that could apply), but because of the satisfaction which it has given me. Join Us in tongratuloting _the new Editors JULIE ISGRO & JIM DAVIS They will be holding a meeting next Tuesday, June 3, I - at 7:30 on the Fourth Floor of Carnegie for all who wish to contribute to next year'& CONCORDIENSIS. Editorial positions are still available - call Jim (372-0172) or Julie (370-6659) if you are interested in fHiing one of these. editor·in·chief managing editor news editors features editors arts editor photo editors sports editor assistant sports editor women's sports editor layout editors copy editor busbnessnaanagers subscription editor calendar· staff donna creeley jim davis ellen van dyke, ed albro dan booth, paul grossman judichervenak pam ryan, norm pflaster rich hope billcw'tin chris phelan rachel mandel, sue marr ellen rubin julie isgro, larry leavitt sara' simmons ellen berger, maria manfredonia sharon camins, sara simmons CONCORDIENSIS is publiShed every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications Inc. 81h Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New Yotk 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Scl:lenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. ERRATA MONDAY, JUNE 9--9:00-11:00 a.m. Computer Science 12--FORTRAN Programming for the Sciences-- Branch--BH 207 MONDAY, JUNE 9--2:00-4:00 p.m. Political Science 132--AMERICAN POLITICAL THOUGHT-- Brown--HU ()14 TUESDAY, JUNE 10--2:00-4:00 p.m. LIBERAL LEARNING 49--LEONARDO: ARTIST AND ENGINEER--Bush, Ullman--SS 016 . ' ''fi)ij'fi(3 -,~tsrg~ foW'ltl stan® The Certte resea Adiro1 openJ An< the A_, at S !> Union audit publi( showi the d dack ThE ' bring: mateJ maps photo conce This of we co.rnp other cente cessil stu de othe1 rese• regia ThE colle selec· librru Paul Set estal Park: state dona· book:: ·histo Inclu mate the Prot' from Til clud~ Stat Env1 and

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, May 29, 1980 -Editorial- As is appropriate as the school year draws to its end, I'd like to take this opportunity to review my tenure as Editor-in-Chief. I can honestly admit that it's been a very worthwhile experience, and one that I've enjoyed very much. It is not, however, a job I would try to tackle mvself. A great deal of the pleasure I received was due to the tine editorial board that worked with me. Before I venture to express my gratitude to those people, I would Uke to acknowledge the fact that had I not had the opportunity to learn from the actions of the past editors, I would have undoubtedly experienced greater difficulties in fulfilling the requirements of Editor. I would also like to congratulate Julie Isgro and Jim Davis on their selection as next year's Editors-in-Chief, with the hope that they will find it equally rewarding. Probably the best way I can aid Jim and Julie in their undertaking is to list what I see as the areas most needing improvement on Concordiensis: Com- munication of what readers want to see; increased student involvement in the writing and production of the paper-- if you're really interested and concerned in the quality of Concordiensis, we welcome your suggestions and acti~e in- volvement; and the attitude with which the campus community receives the paper. But, the best asset a paper can have is its staff. Topping off my list of staff members to thank is Sara Simmons, who, after serving two terms as the first female Editor-in-Chief in Concordiensis history, stayed on to aid us in many areas in which she is experienced (often this resulted in her doing two, three, or four jobs at once). Next, there's Paul Fein sot. His partnership during the first term helped produce the framework from which both term's papers were produced. The rest of my gratitude is extended to Ed Albro and Ellen van Dyke (News); Paul Grossman, Barb Plotkin, and Dan Booth (Features) ; Mandy Abrams and Judi Chervenak (Arts and Culture); Mark Palomba, Rich Hope, Bill Curtain and Chris Phelan (Sports); Pam Ryan, Norm Pflaster, and Jeff Steinberg (Photos); Sue Marr, and Rachel Mandel (Layout); Julie Isgro and Larry Leavitt (Business); Jim Davis (Management); Ellen Rubin (Typing); Ellen Berger and Marla Manfredonia (Calendar) and the depen- dables --Andrea Bowers, Sharon Camins, Fran Teitel, Tom Conway, Mitch Chess, Bob Fox, Mindy Broser, Alan Binkow, and Irwin Menken. I also thank the Publications Office, Administrators, Faculty, Forum and Committee members who have kept us informed throughout the year. I congratulate Lorraine Marra on retaining her sanity throughout the year; her continual support and the encouragement could not be surpassed. Of course, our friends at Susquehanna Publishers must not be forgotten; they went out of their way many times in order to assure us the best possible paper. And finally, I thank you, the readers, for giving me the opportunity to take an active role in the campus community. I realize that my tenure was not without fault, but at the same time I am not without the hope that the publications were enjoyable and informative. I end the term with a cheer, not because I am through with the hassles (although that could apply), but because of the satisfaction which it has given me. Join Us in Congratulating the new Editors JULIE ISGRO & JIM DAVIS They will be holding a meeting next Tuesday, June 3, at 7:30 on th'e Fourth Floor of Carnegie for all who wish to contribute to next year'~ CONCORDIENSIS. Editorial positions are still available - call Jim (372-0172) or Julie (370-6659) if you are interested in filling one of these. editor-in-chief managing editor news editors features editors arts editor photo editors sports editor assistant sports editor women's sports editor layout editors copy editor business managers subscription editor calendar staff donna creeley jim davis ellen van dyke, ed albro dan booth, paul grossman judichervenak pam ryan, norm pflaster rich hope bill curtin chris phelan rachel man del, sue marr ellen rubin julie isgro, larry Ieavitt sara simmons ellen berger, maria manfredonia sharon camins, sara simmons CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the s~ud~nt body. of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Pubbcatlons OfflCe: Susquehan~a Publications Inc. 8lf.! Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432~737. Entered m the Schene~dy Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Letters / / ..... ,. Sincerest Thanks To the Editor: We would like to thank all those members of the Union College Community who so thoughtfully gave of thems~ives to assist us during the past week. It was indeed reassuring to know that during such times of unexpected tragedy o-ne can find solace and comfort in the fact that one's friends are always 'behind you and more than willing to help. Once again, we would llke to thank all of you for your kind assistance and encouragement and we are certain that Ron would have been greatly touched by your efforts. Special thanks to Reverend Schweigardt, Dean Kellett and Concordiensis for their efforts and best wishes to . all .of you in your future en- deavors. Sincerely, The Plurnb,Family 'Frat' Brother On Parties To the Editor: I am a senior and a member of a well-established fraternity on campus. I was surprised and quite pleased to see that the topic of last week's ··union Days aud Nites\ was fraternity parties. I would like to write about a different aspect of this subtect that has disturbed. me for the course of my entire undergraduate stint at Union. All fraternity members pa.y a certain amount of social dues to their respective fraternities. These dues make up their entire . social budgets and allow them to throw parties for the campus,. cooperation being received from your guests. Comments like, \This beer is warm,\ or ·~This drink sucks,\ or even \I've been waiting a long time for a drink, serve me. dam· mit!\ don't make things much easier, either. This kind of non- cooperation is usually not received from other fraternities either; each ·house knows how , much work goes into throwing a party and they usually respect the efforts of another house during visits to their parties. The grief is usually received from certain ·male in· dependents. You're not doing us any favors by coming to our parties and drinking our beer and liquor, listening to our music and ragging on our efforts. We're doing you a favor by throwing a party and letting you enjoy it, free of charge! Obviously, this is not directed at . every independent, nor is it a commentary on or generalization of male in· dependents as a whole. It is a condemnation of those few who feel that they can come to a fraternity party and spoil the atmosphere by ragging on the party and destroying personal property. We'd be happier without you. All'that we ask for is 1:1little cooperation and a little respect. It really isn't that much to ask for. If you don't like the way a· party is going, then leave. We eon't care to hear your com- pJaints, but an occasional. compliment is always ap· predated. We also don't care to have our houses torn apart by guys who are discontented by the temperature of the beer or personalities within the house. It is time that .this garbage stopped, because I, for one, am sick and tired of policing the party rather than enjoying it. Give it a thought ... ~ as well as buy beer for their own personal consumption, Some fraternities throw fewer parties than others, but this is their prerogative since they are the ones who are funding them. No fraternity receives any social subsidy from the College and,. unlike most schools, fraternities , at Union do not charge in· dependents for enjoying the advant'ages of the fraternity social life~a friendly tradition which may come to an end in A Concerned Fraternity Member I'm S·orry, Alan To the Editor: I would like to take this op~ . portunity to make a public the near future, _ The fraternity at whicl}I am a brother throws many parties and . sodal dues paid here are not cheap. As well as funding the party,my brothers and I are responsible for rurming the .party, which is no small chore. There is the pre-party clean up, which gets the house in shape for guests; thre is the ad~ ministration of the party during its course (Le., pouring ofbeers and drinks, policing, etc.) ; and there is the post~party clean up, which is the biggest pain in the ass of am As members of other houses will agree, it is no fun being stuck behind a bar pouring beer and drinks all night while others are enjoying themcSelves, especially if there is little or no . apology to Alan. In the last issue rMay 221 1~80}, a personal ad was placed stating that a roommate was wanted with a gas mask,. able to withstand heavy body odor, This was an· unwarranted act, considered inhuman by some, My action, no matter how true, was an inappropriate one. I certainly· hope that there is no lost friendship between Alan and myself. l would also like to say that donations for research and development of a cure. for en- docrine disorders will be ac .. cepted. Write Alan: Box 1060, Union College., Schenectady. N.Y. 12308. Sincerely, · The Justice League of America ERRATA MONDAY, JUNE: 9--9:00-11:00 a.m. Computer Science 12--FORTRAN Programming for the Sciences--Branch--BH 207 MONDAY, JUNE 9--2:00-4:00 p.m. Political Science 132--AMERICAN POLITICAL THOUGHT-- Brown--HU 014 TUESDAY, JUNE 10--2:00-4:00 p.m. Ll BERAL LEARNING 49--LEONARDO: ARTIST AND ENGINEER--Bush, UHman--SS 016 - ' A To th We Prest Pizz.a Intra1 teer Unior help for .c softb• Phi. We • to th~ mom need: · We annu then out i: SincE Dear ln cord: in ~ spea beinl natic incol . Chi\ foun \Sig foun stan EI A Th~ Cent rese< A dire open An the ! at 8 1 Unio audi publi shov. the dack Th brin1 matE map phot cone This of w com othe cent cess stud othe rese regi Tt coll1 sele1 librc: Pau Sc est a Par] Stat dom bool hist1 Incl mat the Pro fror Tl clue Sta Em and

OONCORDilflNSIS, May ~9, 1980 Pag~ 3 Adirondack Ex\hibit The Adirondack Research Center, a repository for research materials and Adirondack memorabilia, will openJune9 at Schaffer Library. An award-winning film about the Adirondacks will be shown at t1 !).m. Friday, June 6, in the Union College Social Sciences auditorium, room 016. The public is welcome to attend this showing, which will highlight the dedication of the Adiron- dack Research Center. The Research Center will ' bring together such diverse materials as books, magazines, maps, pamphlets, color slides, photographs, and 16 mm films concerning the Adirondacks. This comprehensive collection of works, which is intended to complement materials found in other Adirondack information centers, will be easily ac- cessible to Capital District area students, teachers, writers, and other interested persons researching the Adirondack region. 'The nucleus of the Center's collection will , consist of selec:ted items from the private library of noted conservationist Paul Schaefer of Sclmectady. Schaefer, who played a role in establishing the Adirondack Park Agency and founded the State Conservation Couricil~ will donate to the Research Center book:s, photographs, films, and -hist~Jrical and political records. Included will be microfihned material from the archives of the Association .for . the Protection of the Adirondacks, frorn 1901 to the present. Tl:le collection will also in- clude official publications of the State Department of Environmental Conservation a11d the Adirondac-k Park ,. .....,.,~,::..,. .-.. '1r .,..&~ w~' \.oo ~·\\\ 1t>\\'\t \'· 011 V' •,. • Agency, as well as Union College's own Adirondack materials. Initially, the Adkondack Research Center will be housed in the College's rare books room, on the fourth floor of Schaffer Library. There, the use of valuable materials will be supervised by library staff, and the temperature controlled atmosphere will help preserve older documents. A Research Center Com~ mittee, headed by Adirondack ·writer Edith Pilcher of Schenectady· and Norman Van Valkenburgh, director of lands artd forests for 1 the State Department of Environmental Conservation, is now accepting contributions of additional research materials. Persons wishing to donate books or other documents should contact Ruth ·Anne Evans, assistant director of Schaffer Library, at (518) 370-6278. Financial assistance is also needed, Pilcher said, to help offset operating expenses and for such special purposes as the construction of custom display cases for books and maps· and · .the acquisition .of supplemental materials. .contributions may_ be sent to Carl George, associate professor of bio1ogical sciences, Union College Department of Biological Sciences, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308. In addition to Pilcher and Van Valkenburgh, other members of the Adir-ondack Research Center Committee include Richard and Beverly Me$smer of Schenectady; Carl George; Paul Schaefe.r; Jean G. Pelletiere, director of Schaffer Library; David Newhouse of Schenectady; Eleanor Brown of Schnectady; Ennis Pilcher, ~rofessor of physics at Union Union DaJ'S And Nites ~ow Strong A Union? by JIMOAVIS Among the expenses of being a student here is the Student Activity Fee. It amounts to $33 a term, and pays for a wide variety of campus activities, including the publication of this newspaper. (And you thought you were getting it for free. ) Of course, Concordiensis, by itself, doesn't cost that much. Really, you get a surprisingly large lot for your Activity Fee dollar. One of the biggest functions to be so funded took place this past weekend. It was Camp Union, dedicated to the ideal (hope\?) that being a student here is like attending a summer camp, and offering an opportunity for anyone wh<r wanted to catch some rays and listen to some tunes in front of West College. On a day like last Saturday, when the temperatur.e climbed to about 90 degrees, this chance to have some fun in the sun provided a welcome respite for those who were there. Throughout the day and then into the night's concert with Jerry Jeff Walker, a goodly sized crowd of up to <!bout 1,000 congregated. That's a good number, but the gathering's composition doesn't strike quite so sweet a note. More than a few Schenectady residents showed up, but that's only to be ex- pected, not disdained. Rather, what a number of people noted--with a fair amount of validity-was the almost complete absence of fraternity or sorority members. While it's true that most of the day's events took place down- campus-a long way from many Here College; Gertrude Antemann of Schenectady; William Waddell, a soil conservation expert from North Creek; Mary Pratt, an editor of the New York State Environmental News; Linda Champagne Van Dyke, a writer with the State Commerce Department's \I Love New York\ campaign; Warder Cad bury of the SUNY A Atmospheric Sciences Research Center; Thomas Cobb of Schenectady; a~d Ruth Anne Evans. Greek houses, especially those on Lenox Road, that doesn't e~plain this absence. Most individuals associated with these organizations probably feel a strong allegiance to them-and that's only right. But w)lat appears to have happene~ here is that people so affiliated are inclined to disassociat~ themselves from ''independent\ activities, like the Social Committee's Camp Union. In this instance, this might have been understandable if some other activity was taking place that was drawing. students away. But there wasn't. Camp Union was the only game on campus last Saturday. And almost everyone who was there would certainly say it was a good time. For that, the day's organizers deserve to be commended. ' Like fraternity members, they fill a social need on campus. Without them, just as wnnout fraternities, there would be a lot more empty weekends here. (This isn't to equate fraternities with the Social Committee. Providing entertainment is the purpose of the latter; it's just the most visible outgrowth of the for· mer.) And just as independents feel no hesitation about stopping by at most fraternity parties, so, too, should Greek men and women return the favor when the Social Committee's doing the inviting. Whatever one's affiliations are, it's a good bet' that his similarities with other campus residents--independent or otherwise--far outweigh the differences. And when the point in question is something like Camp Union-that everyone has already paid for-it seems that those who chose not to take part have cheated no one so much as themsel~es. fonuniliPe (Ju Conunittees: Names Announced The following appointments were made by the Student Forum on Monday, May 26, for the 1980-81 academic year, upon the recommendation of the Committee on Conunittees. Student Forum Committees Committee on Committees: Cathy Johnson '82 ( V.P., Chairman), Sherry Laitman '81 (Senior Class Rep.), Rich Tannenbaum '82 (Junior Class Rep. ) , Gary Chadick '83 ( SQphomore Class Rep.), Ilene Landress '83. Finance Committee: Jim Fisher '82 (V.P., Chairman), David Handler '81 (Senior Class Rep.), Marla Shore '82 (Junior Class Rep.), Cheryl Ayelsworth '83 (So ph. Class Rep.), Barton Levine '83, Noel Tenenbaum '82, Mark Zukowski '81. Concert Committee: William Friedman ~81 (Co-Chairman), Seth Oringer '82 (Co-Chairman, Bernadette Albanese '83, Mark Baum '82, Desmond Cahill '83, Lawrence Green '83, Marcia Lifshitz '83, Peter Schlessel '83, William Singer '83, Alison Waltch '81, Steven Weil '82: Speakers Forum: Liz Weisser '81 1 Co-Chairman), Robin Cornick '81 (Co-Chairman), Marc Bernstein '82, Richard Creem '82, Helene Grossberg '81, Nancy Judson '83, Valerie Juster '81, Mandy Phillips '81, Karen Ross '82, Jamie Schiff '81. David Zaltas '82, Stephanie Zigman '83. Film Committee: John Strang '82 (Chairman), John Giza '82, Gregory Groutos '82, Lisa Livshin '82, Deb Poskanzer '83, Debbie Schneider '83, David Tarbay '81, Irwin Weiss '81, Tamara Wood '82, Linda Ziman '82. Social Committee: Betty Dwoskin '81 (Co-Chairman), Cynthia Hurley '81 (Co- Chairman), Ellen Baxter '81, Mark Blumkin '82, Jill Bryce '83, Nevin Dubin '81, Michael Kaplowitz '83, Dina Pliotis '83, Sam Post '81, Lisa Ryan '83, Judith Sonnenblick '83. Elections Committee: Joseph Cristofaro '82 (Chairman), Robert Byrnes '81, Deborah Selig '83, Phyllis Sternberg '82, Scott Witkin '83. l~stitute Of Summer College Committees For the eleventh year, Union College is offering a summer series of technical institutes for engineers, scientists, and in- dustrial managers. Originally regional in scope, the institutes now attract prominent in- structors and participants from throughout the world. Of the 14 courses offered at Union this summer, a number of them-such as \Pascal for .,J:.leginners\ and \Pascal for the 'Programmer'' ..... are being held for the first time. Those which are a long standing part of the summer institute program include the ninth annual \Conference- on the Modern View of Fatigue and Its Relation to Engineering Problems\ and \Industrial Product Noise Control,\ now in its 11th year. Institute partidpants will learn ''state-of-the\art\ in- f0rmation in a number of specialized fields. Tbis year's institutes include: \Planning a Digital Data Acquisition and _ Control Computer System/' July 9-11; \lndustrial Product Noise Control,\ July 7-11;. \Con~ . . ference on Fracture Mechanics I and Its Application to Engineering Design,'' July 14- 18; ''Applied Instnunentation and Measurements Engineering,\ July 14-18; \Microprocessors in Action-- Commercial and Industrial Applications,\ July 21-24; and \Conference on Fracture Mechanics II with Industrial Applications,\ July 21-24; and \Computer Workshop in Earthquak:e and Structural Dynamics,\ July 28-Aug. 1. Also offered this summer will be \Computer· Workshop in Finite Element Methods of Analysis for Stress and Other Field Problems,\ July 28-Aug. 1; \Introduction to Very Large Scale Integrated Systems,\ Aug. 4-8; \Energy Conservation in Commerce and Industry;' Aug. 4-8;_ \Making Project Management Work,\ Aug. 13- 15; \Pascal for Beginners,\ Sept. 3-5; \Pascal for the Programmer,\ Sept. 8-10; and \Conference on the Modern View of -Fatigue and Its Relation to Engineering Problems,\ Sept. 8-12. Student Affairs ColUleiJ: Vern Wetmore '81 (Senior Class Rep.), Weldon Turner '82 (Junior Class Rep.), Sheila Walsh '81 (Soph. Class Rep.), Brian Marks '82, Susan Pava '81. Academic Affairs Council: Steve Auerbach '82, Joe Car- dany '81, Nancy Gagliano '81, Hannah Schwartz '81. Admissions Committee: Jeff Capelle '81, Katie Martin 'Sl . Planning and Priorities Committee: Eric Levine '81, Richard McTighe '81, David Stern '82. Conduct c-ommittee: Doug Spector '81 (Chairman), Neil Bernstein '82, Kathy Donohue '81, Marc Goldman '82, David Konys '82, Ruth Lewis '83, Robert Mondschein '83, Joan Moumblo '81, Edward Pletman '82. Standing of Students Com· mittee: Sindy Berger '81, John Dragoon '82, Neil Eisenstadt '82. Athletic Committee: John Chaloupka '82, Mary Levin '82, Felice Rolnick '82. Campus Operations Com· mittee: Aaron Miller '82, Shelly Stroud '82. ·-----·- ............ ~ ... ' ......... ;, ,., .. , - . - .. - \ - .... ' . ..,_. - ~

CONCORDI~NSIS, May 29, 1980 Page 3 -Letters- Marathon A Success · To the Campus Community : We would like to thank President Morris, Mayor Dud, Pizza Hut, Go}dstock's, the Intramural Office, our volun- teer umpires. and the entire Union College family, fot' their · help with and encouragement for . our third annual 24·hollr softball marathon with Delta Phi. . We have over $1,500 pledged · to the Easter Seal Society. This money will be used to send . needy kids to summer camp. We look forward to the fourth annual contest next year, and the return of Danny May to help out in his own special way. Sincerely, The brotherhood of Phi Delta Theta Sigma Phi Vindicated Dear Editor: ln the May 22 issue of Con- cardiensis, a mistake appeared in Jim Davis's column. In speaking about Union College's being the founder .of three national fraternities, Mr. Davis incorrectly stated that \Sigma Chin was the second fraternity founded. It should have read \Sigma Phi\; Sigma Phi was founded in 1827. Mr. Davis stands corrected. Sincerely, DanLacoff President, Sigma Phi EDITOR'S NOTE: And he apologizes. SEA Displaced Again To the Editor: We were disheartened to discover the total disregard that the Union College ad~ ministration has for student activities. We fail to understand how so little respect was exhibited toward the Student Environmental Alli.ance's personal property. This week without prior notification, SEA was evicted from its small office. SEA's filing cabinet was removed from the room. and the posters and notices were taken from the walls and dumped on the floor. This is the second time this year that this has happened to SEA. and both times no effort was made to contact any members of the . alliance. Last fall, all of SEA's . reference materials were . destroyed by the ad- ministrati<m. Carnegie Hall should be acknowledged as the center for student ot·ganizations. In all fairness, · the office which was designated to be shared by SEA and the . Film Committee should not be taken over by the ad- ministration, especially without any ·explanation. We hope something is done to rectify this situation and further abuses do not occur to other student organizations. Carol Zimmerman '82. John Titus '82 Adirondack Exhibit The Adirondack Research Center. a repository for research materials and Adirondack memorabilia. will open .June 9 at Schaffer Library. An award-winning film about the Adirondacks will be shown at 8 p.m. Friday. June 6, in the Union College Social Sciences auditorium, room 016. The public is welcome to attend this showing, which will highlight the dedication of the Adiron- dack Research Center. The Research Center will bring together such diverse materials as books, magazines, maps, pamphlets, color slides, photographs, and 16 mm films concerning the Adirondacks. This comprehensive collection of works, which is intended to complement materials found in other Adirondack information centers, will be easily ac- cessible to Capital District area students, teachers, writers, and other interested persons researching the Adirondack region. The nucleus of the Center's collection will consi:st of selected items from the private library of noted conservationist Paul Schaefer of Schnectady. Schaefer, who played a role in establishing the Adirondack Park Agency and founded the State Conservation Council, will donate to the Research Center books, photographs, films. and historical and political records. Included will be microfilmed material from the archives of the Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks, from 1901 to the present. The collection will also in- clude official publications of the State Department of Environmental Conservation and the Adirondack Park A~ency, as well as Union College's own Adirondack materials. Initiallv, the Adirondack Research ·center will be housed in the College's rare books room. on the fourth floor of Schaffer Librarv. There. the use of valuable ·materials will be supervised by library st1ff, and the temperature controlled atmosphere wiJI help preserve older documents. A Research Center Com- mittee, headed by Adirondack writer Edith Pilcher of Schenectady and Norman Van Valkenburgh, director of lands and forests for the State Department of Environmental Conservation, is now accepting contributions of additional research materials. Persons wishing to donate books or other documents should contact Ruth Anne Evans, assistant director of Schaffer Library, at (518) 370-6278. Financial assistance is also needed, Pilcher said, to help offset operating expenses and for such special purposes as the construction of custom display cases for books and maps and the acquisition of supplemental materials. Contributions may be sent to Carl George, associate professor of biological sciences, Union College Department of Biological Sciences, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308. In addition to Pilcher and Van Valkenburgh, other members of the Adirondack Research Center Committee include Richard and Beverly Messmer of Schenectady; Carl George; Paul Schaefer; Jean C. Pelletiere, director of Schaffer Library; David Newhouse of Schenectady; Eleanor Brown of Schnectady; Ennis Pilcher, l?rofessor of physics at Union How Strong A Union? by JIM DAVIS Among the expenses of being a student here is the Student Activity Fee. It amounts to $33 a term, and pays for a wide variety of campus activities, including the publication of this newspaper. 1 And you thought you were getting it for free. J Of course, Concordiensis, by itself. doesn't cost that much. Really, you get a surprisingly large lot for your Activity Fee dollar. One of the biggest functions to be so funded took place this past weekend. It was Camp Union, dedicated to the ideal 1 hope? l that being a student here is like attending a summer camp. and offering an opportunity for anvone who- wanted to catch son1e ravs and listen to some tunes in ·front of West College. On a day like last Saturday, when the temperature c:lirnbed to about 90 degrees. this chance to have some fun in the sun pruvided a welcome respite for those who were there. Greek houses, especiaHy those on Lenox Road, that doesn't explain this absence. Most individuals associated with these organizations probably feel a strong allegiance to them-and that's only right. But what appears to have happened here is that people so affiliated are inclined to disassociate themselves from \independent\ activities, like the Social Committee's Camp Union. In this instance, this might have been understandable if some other activity was taking place that was drawing students away. But there wasn't. Camp Union was the only game or. campus last Saturday. And almost everyone who was there would certainlv sav it was a good time. For thai. the day's organizers deserve to be commended. Like fraternity members, they fill a social need on campus. Without them, just as Without fraternities, there would be a lot more empty weekends here. r This isn't to equate fraternities with the Social Committee. Providing entertainment is the purpose of the latter; it's just the most visible outgrowth of the for- mer.) And just as independents feel no hesitation about stopping by at most fraternity parties. so. too, should Greek men and women return the favor when the Social Committee's doing the inviting. Whatever one's affiliations are. it's a good bet that his similarities with other campus residents--independent or otherwise-·far outweigh the differences. And when the point in question is something like Camp Union-that everyone has already paid for-it seems that those who chose not to take part have cheated no one so much as themselves. Throughout the day and then into the night's concert with Jerry .Jeff Walker, a goodly sized erowd of up to about 1,000 congregated. That's a good number, but the gathering's composition doesn't strike quite so sweet a note. More than a few Schenectady residents showed up, but that's only to be ex- pected, not disdained. Names Announced Rather, what a number of people noted--with a fair amount of validity-was the almost complete absence of fraternity or sorority members. While it's true that most of the day's events took place down- campus--a long way from many Here College; Gertrude Antemann of Schenectady; William Waddell, a soil l'onservation expert from I\orth Creek; Marv Pratt, an editor of the New· York State Environmental News: Linda Champagne Van Dyke, a writer with the State Commerce Department's \l Love :-.Jew York\ campaign; Warder Cadburv of the SUNY A A t m o s· p h e r i c S c i e n c e s Research Center; Thomas Cobb of Schenectady; and Ruth Anne Evans. The following appointments were made by the Student Forum on Monday, May 26, for the 1980-81 academic year, upon the recommendation of the Committee on Committees. Student Forum Committees Committee on Committees: Cathy Johnson '82 rV.P., Chairman 1, Sherry Laitman '81 1 Senior Class Rep. J, Rich Tannenbaum '82 1 Junior Class Rep.J, Gary Chadick '83 1 Sophomore Class Rep. l, Ilene Landress '83. Finance Committee: Jim Fisher '82 1 V. P., Chairman 1, David Handler '81 1 Senior Class Rep. 1. Marla Shore '82 1 Junior Class Rep. J, Cheryl Ayelsworth '83 1 So ph. Clas\ Rep.), Barton Ledne '83, Noel Tenenbaum '82, Mark Zukowski '81. Concert Committee: William Friedman '81 1 Co-Chairman 1, Seth Oringer '82 r Co-Chairman, Bernadette Albanese '83. Mark Baum '82. Desmond Cahill '83, Lawrence Green '83, Marcia Lifshitz '83, Peter Schlessel '83, William Singer '83, Alison Waltch '81, Steven Weil '82. Institute Of Summer For the eleventh year, Union College is offering a summer series of technical institutes for engineers, scientists, and in- dustrial managers. Originally regional in scope, the institutes now attract prominent in- structors and participants from throughout the world. Of the 14 courses offered at Union this summer, a number of them-such as \Pascal for .Beginners\ and \Pascal for the \Programmer\-are being held for the first time. Those which are a long standing part of the summer institute program include the ninth annual \Conference on the Modern View of Fatigue and Its Relation to Engineering Problems\ and \Industrial Product Noise Control,\ now in its 11th year. Institute participants will learn \state-of-the-art\ in- formation in a number of specialized fields. This year's institutes include: \Planning a Digital Data Acquisition and Control Computer System,\ July 9-11; \Industrial Product Noise Control,\ July 7-11; \Con- ference on Fracture Mechanics I and Its Application to Engineering Design,\ July 14- 18; \Applied Instrumentation and Measurements Engineering,\ July 14-18; \Microprocessors in Action- Commercial and Industrial Applications,'' July 21-24; and \Conference on Fracture Mechanics II with Industrial Applications,\ July 21-24; and \Computer Workshop in Earthquake and Structural Dynamics,\ July 28-Aug. 1. Also offered this summer will be \Computer Workshop in Finite Element Methods of Analysis for Stress and Other Field Problems,\ July 28-Aug. 1; \Introduction to Very Large Scale Integrated Systems,\ Aug. 4-8; ''Energy Conservation in Commerce and Industry;' Aug. 4-8; \Making Project Management Work,\ Aug. 13- 15; \Pascal for Beginners,\ Sept. 3-5; \Pascal for the Programmer,\ Sept. 8-10; and \Conference on the Modern View of Fatigue and Its Relation to Engineering Problems,\ Sept. 8-12. Speakers Forum: Liz Weisser '81 1 Co-Chairman 1, Robin Cornick '81 1 Co-Chairman l, :viare Bernstein '82, Richard Creem '82, Helene Grossberg '81, I\ancy Judson '83, Valerie Juster '81, Mandy Phillips '81, Karen Ross '82, Jamie Schiff '81, David Zaltas '82. Stephanie Zigman '83. Film Committee: John Strang '82 1 Chairman 1, John Giza '82, Gregory Groutos '82, Lisa Livshin '82, Deb Poskanzer '83. Debbie Schneider '83, David Tarbay '81, Irwin Weiss '81, Tamara Wood '82, Linda Zirnan '82. Social Committer: Bettv Dwoskin '81 1 Co-Chairman l-, Cynthia Hurley '81 1 Co- Chairman I, Ellen Baxter '81, Mark Blumkin '82, Jill Brvce '83, ~evin D~tbin '81. :viichael Kaplowitz '83. Dina Pliotis '83. Sam Post '81. Lisa Rvan '83. Judith Sonnenblick '83: Elections Committre: Joseph Cristofaro '82 1 Chairman). Robert Byrnes '81, Deborah Selig '83, Phyllis Sternberg '82. Scott Witkin '83. College Committees Student Affairs Council: Vern Wetmore '81 (Senior Class Rep.), Weldon Turner '82 (Junior Class Rep. 1, Sheila Walsh '81 (So ph. Class Rep.), Brian Marks '82, Susan Pava '81. Academic Affairs Council: Steve Auerbach '82, Joe Car- dany '81, Nancy Gagliano '81, Hannah Schwartz '81. Admissions Committee: Jeff Capelle '81, Katie Martin '81. Planning and Priorities Committee: Eric Levine '81, Richard McTighe '81, David Stern '82. Conduct Committee: Doug Spector '81 (Chairman), Neil Bernstein '82, Kathy Donohue '81, Marc Goldman '82, David Konys '82, Ruth Lewis '83, Robert Mondschein '83, Joan Moumblo '81, Edward Pletman '82. Standing of Students Com- mittee: Sindy Berger '81, John Dragoon '82, Neil Eisenstadt '82. Athletic Committee: John Chaloupka '82, Mary Levin '82, Felice Rolnick '82. Campus Operations Com- mittee: Aaron Miller '82, Shelly Stroud '82.

,. Page 4 OONOORDIENS1~ 1 May !9, 1980 art6 Happiness ·Is. Play Review~ • • culture~ 6p Sch by by PAULGROSSMAN Last Tuesday night the Nott Memorial had in its audience some v~ry discriminating theater goers: young children. They were in the Nott to see some of their favorite comic strip characters come to life; Snoopy, Lucy and Of course Charlie Brown-and the rest of the Peanuts gang. To review \You're A Good Man, Charlie Brown\ I knew that I didn't have to~ examine the acting technique (which was excellent in every case ) , or to criticize the technical aspects of the show 1 which were executed nicely) ; I knew that I would be able to gauge the success of the production simply by watching the faces of the young ones. For the complex plays like \The Three Sisters\ and \The Hairy Ape\ I found it necessary to sit with pen-in~hand, ready to take note of the subtle statements of the play and the characters. This was hardly the case for \Charlie Brown\. After therousing title song, I decided, rather selfishly. to put down the pen, slide the note-pad under the seat, and enjoy the play, · thank you. · Certain aspects of the production necessitate com- ment. Technically, the beautiful workin.g simplicity of the set as weU as the musical per- formance (with Ned Rosen on piaM and Matt Lubart on bass) were both unobtrusively in- corporated into the production. Particularly enjoyable were the Crayola Crayon colored costumes of the characters.· Joe Millet, the production director, coordinated the varied talents of each of his cast members and allowed them to bring to life the much loved comic strip characters. Paul Sabatino as Linus executed a smooth soft-shoe number with his ever present security blanket. Demetra Pontissakos' voice rang clear throughout the musical numbers. The highly intellectual, super-cultured Schroeder was played by the highly intellectual, super- cultured Adam Frey. The loud- mouthed, conceited, om- niscient, but always charming character of Lucy was played with ease by Melissa Gold. The rest of the cast, Snoopy and Charlie Brown, were left to two veterans of the Union Stage: Verna Lowe and Tom Farrell. Verna, as Snoopy, could always be found on top of her doghouse, except when she came down and belted out the joys o£ \Suppertime\. The singing, dancing and stage presence of Verna's Snoopy provided a large part of the animation needed to make ''Charlie Brown\ work. Tom Farrell, in keeping with his practice of totally im- rnersi'ng himsel'f in his character, dyed his hair to become Charlie Brown. Tom had no trouble expounding on the joys of getting his kite to fly for the first time, even as it plummeted to the gorund. Tom's skill almost makes one FILM June 3-A series of travel films taking the viewer to locations around the world will be shown at 2 and 8 p.m. Tuesdays by the Albany Public Library, 161 Washington Avenue. The series begins on ·'Tuesday, June 3, with TOURING GREAT CITIES: AMSTERDAM AND SWI~ ZERLAND: A STUDY IN CONTRASTS. YELLOW TRAIL FROM TEXAS and THOMAS JEFFERSON'S MONTICELLO will be shown on June 10 and THE GREAT BARRIER. REEF . wonder if he could have pulled off Lucy with as much ease. Can he turn in a poor ,performance? I doubt it. The songs were great. The title song was surpassed only by the humor.of \A Book Report on Peter Rabbit.'' The finale, \Happiness left me waiting for more. Is the play successful? Throughout the play I was watching the faces of the youngest audience members~ and DANUBE on June 17. Completing the series on June 24 will be A LOOK AT LIV: NORWAY'S ULLMAN-ULL- MAN'S NORWAY. For further information, contact Fran Lewis at 449-3380 .(mornings) or 869-9317 (home). June 4--FUNNY GIRL, starring Barbara Streisand and Omar Shariff, will be shown at 2 p.m. at th~ Albany Public Library 161 Washington Avenue. The musical biography of Fanny Brice is shown with both captioned. and spoken dialogue: For further in- formation, contact Fran Lewis To see their smiles, an answer to the qUestion was easy. I questioned one of the young theater goers who said, \I liked all of it.'' Tonight is unfortunately the last night to see the play. Enjoy yourself and spend a short time in theN ott tonight. I will be weLl worth it. There is a line in the final song that goes, ''Hap- piness is anything loved by all.'' Happiness is ''You're A Good Man, Charlie Brown.'' at 449-33.80 (mornings) or 869- 9317 (home}. MUSIC June 27-28-The New York. Philharmonic will perform music · by Beethoven, Tchaikovsky,.and Mahler in two outstanding concerts at the Saratoga Performing Arts Center. Christopher Eschen- bach will be the pianist- conductor for the first concert, while Klaus 'rennste.dt will conduct the second evenings program. For further in- formation, 584-9330 .' ----.\ Aroun am u Summer Courses To Begin The 1980 summer session of the Union College master's degree program for secondary school science and mathematics teachers will be held at the College June 23 through August 1. Two courses will be offered, and four semester hours of graduate credit will be a warded for the successful completion of each course. Tuition is $300_ per course. In the more than 20 years that Union has offered this program, some 600 persons have received the degree master of science for teachers. This ·year's summer courses will be \Function in Cells and Organisms\ and \Topics in Modern Mathematics.\ Classes will meet Monday through Friday mornings. \Function in Cells and Organisms\ will deal with the functional biology of cells and organisms, including con- sideration of biological energy transformations, metabolism, and integrative and regulatory physiology. Course instructors will be Francis L. Lambert, associate professor of physiology and biophysic?, and George M. Butterstein, associate professor of biological sciences. An introduction to logic; the theory of sets, and probability will be offered in \Topics in Modern Mathematics.\ Also discussed will be linear algebra, matrices, determinants, and transformations. Course in- structor will be Edwin F. Gillette, professor of mathematics. For further information about the program, or to obtain ap- plication materials, contact Prof. Gillette at the Union College Mathematics Depart- ment, Bailey Hall, Schenec- tady, 12308 (telephone370-6246). Blood 'Drive A Success Alice M, Swanson, Director of the American Red Cross Blood Services in Schenectady County was pleased to report a 21 percent increase in donations over the previous year. Strauss Lounge seemed to play a role in the improved donations as it was more accessable to a greater numer of students than was the Alumni Gym .. Below are the collection figures for Union College in 1979-80. Goal: .600 Appeared: 745 Deferred: 145 Net: 698 First Time: 150 Golub Specialist To Speak Lotte Swartz, training and communicati~ns specialist with the Golub Corp., will discuss her company's policy of \par- ticipative management\ at 4 p.m. Thursday, May 29, at Union College. Swartz's talk, sponsored by 'Qnion 's Institute of Administration and Management, will be held in room 207, Bailey Hall. Swartz is a graduate of Boston University who worked in the field of education before joining the Golub Corp. seven years ago, Her present position requires the analysis and im- plementation of corporate programs and the ~diting of a company newsletter. A member of the National Association of Trainers and Developers, Swartz will discuss Golub's role as a leader in the field of \participative management.'' All interested persons are welcome to attend. F~llowship Program Once again Union College, together with 47 other colleges and universities, has been asked to nominate four can- . dictates for the Watson Travelling Fellowship program (70 Fellowships will be awarded during the coming winter). All graduating seniors are eligible, regardless of sex, race, nationality, unddergraduate program, previous foreign experience or career plans. There are wide limits to the purposes for which the Fellowships may be used: in general it may be said that they are intended to enable ·newly graduated students to spend a. year abroad (i.e. outside North America) in the independent pursuit of almost any con- ceivable interest, provided that it will not involve extended formal study at a foreign university. The Fellowsh~ps are worth $8,000 each ($11,000 for married stlildents). They must be used dUring the year im- mediately following graduation. Completed applications must be received by the College's N aminating Committee not later than Oct. 10: if you wish to apply, you have only a short time to think about your project and write up your proposal. Final nominations will be made by the College and submitted to the Watson Foundation by November 1. The final award by the Foundation will not be based solely on academic per- formance, but will also take into account such things as breadth of interest, powers of leader- ship, and the nature and practicability of the proposed project. · Seniors who are interested in the program should consult me as soon as possible. Harry Marten, Faculty Liaison Officer, Department of English, Humanities 215D. Congratulations 1980 Grad~ating Class! Thank You For Your Patronage Good Luck In The Future In honor of your success the Rathskellar -tips its hat to you with these~ specials: Molsonl,s Gold \$.75-bottle while they last, Thurs. night, 9-closing. Beers Light or Dark $.90-bottle while they last. June 10/ Tuesday night/ 9-closing. Draft Night $.25 drafts .. Beer· to be announced. Thursday, June 5. Stop in & check for unadvertised specials After a all night must beg: brother I1 This act ' nerdity ar. unnoticed campus. reason 1 awarded of the We Ike Ka~ term with filibuster medical : been a Saturday study. La second/i competiti 3.99 SC average. defend in Howard l I .

OONOORDIENSIS, May 29, 1980 Page~CS, culture Barry Smith Discussing The Arts .... Q.l - (/] ttl 0::: E 6 z >- .0 0 - 0 ..c !l.. B(:lrry Smith is Assistant Professsor of the Arts Department. Album Review: \ Barry Smith, assistant professor of the Arts Depart• ment, is an essential feature in many of the theatrical productions held in the Nott Memorial Theater. This year, he has • been involved in the direction of such highly suc- cessful productions as Piran- dello's \Six Characters\ and Anton Chekhov's \The Three Sisters.'' Professor Smith arrived at Union College in 1971, along with Charles Steckler, to work with Mountebanks and to develop a stronger Arts Department. His views on the now-dissolved Mountebanks and those students involved in the arts at Union College are as YR Is Different by DAN FRIEF.ELD . It's 2 in the morning, you're sitting on a sl;mg carpet with a few of your close friends and the subject turns to sex, No, scratch that, it sounds too much like forum. From the top-It's 2 am you're there with the same friends on the same carpet a half-hour earlier and the sub- ject turns to music. What are those amazing._ tunes eminating from the high-fi. Wait, the electric guitar is really hot, it must be rock, although a few minutes ~go I would have sworn I heard a harp playing some far- out classical music~ stop, this is blowing my mind, that's a great jazz lick or l'm my Uncle's monkey. What you have just ex- perienced is a person having an Eargasm listening _to Steve Tibbetts. This uncommonly pleasureable occurence, commonly occurs when one listens to an album entitled YR, by a one-man band and then some, named Steve Tibbetts. YR is a purely instrumentaJ, except for an occasional grunt or two, esoteric, classical, rock, jazz, combination that works so well that I felt compelled to create a new musical category to describe it: Tibbet. I admit itl.s sort of obvious, but I really didn't have all day to think about it. Anyway, in the future we may see a new category in the record store: Tibbet. As it stands this type of music is called esoteric--late night- progressive-rock, but I think the term Tibbet will catch on after enough people hear YR. (It has less syllables) YR is different from almost all supposedly \spaced-out\ music in that has definite shape, melody, and form. The moods of- the album range from sensuous to playful, yet the listener is always conscious of one thing: hey, this is good music. The sound at times is so enveloping that it feels lik€ ·pe are in the mind of an insane but brilliant composer whose music tran- scends written notes along with the usual instruments to play them. YR is an aural fantasy that is listened to not so much with the ears, but with the imagination. Until recently, Tibbetts has remained a cult favorite with electronic music gourmet , cognoscenti. The reason you probably may not of heard of Tibbetts is due to that fact that his music is not recorded by a record company. YR was written, recorded, produced, and released by one man--steve Tibbetts. About five years ago Steve wrote, recorded and privately sold 1, 000 copies of' an Mitch's Maze by MITCH CHESS album entitled''Steve Tibbetts.'' Although the music was original, the name was thought of by his mother some 25 years before. I suppose YR is more original, but you never quite know how to pronounce it. _ !Why-Are) (not \yore\) With the profit of his first effort, and a substantial in- vestment Steve built his own professional quality 8-track recording studio, with his own two hands and the help of a freind. He then spent the next two and a half years creating YR. Thirty major recording studios rejected. his offer to commercially produce it, and Steve once again took it upon himself to finish the job he started. He formed his own record company, Frammis Ent., had the music pressed into vinyl by Wakefield Mfg. and sent it to progressive radio stations across the. country. To stores within the listening range of these stations , he has put some copies on sale by con- signment. The response has been phenominal. Steve is happily printing copies like mad to keep up with demand, and has just sold European distribution rights to Jem Records. Steve secured a placEf in the recording industry record books' as the most individual effort in modern times. Along with recording it, performing it, distributing it, he drew all the artwork for the cover, and the center la 1 bel on the disk. According to Tibbetts, he designed the center label to hypnotize late-night DJs into playing the whole side. Obviously, words can't do YR justice, so what I suggest, if your interested in this type of mu_sic, you tune· into WRUC at 11:30 pm this Wed. June 4 to hear \The Steve Tibbetts YR Radio Special.\ An autographed copy will be given away in a phone-in contest. Most likely, copies can be ob- tained at Just-a-Song, but 'further information can be obtained through WRUC Wedne~?day night. Steve Tib- betts-his hands are quicker than YR ears. WRUC Album at Ten Saturday: Devo Radio Special at 2: 00-5:00 with the Booj i Boy. Features: a l New Devo Album; b) Unreleased songs; c) Interviews. Monday·: Paul McCartney, \Paul McCartney II\ Tuesday: Southside Johnny, ''Having a Party\ Wednesday: Ry Coode.r, ''The Long Riders\ ·· Thursday: Dave Mason, \Old Crests ·oh a New Wave\ follows: \Mountebanks one of the oldest dramatic organizations in the country, collapsed last year. Mountebanks should exist and there should be this type of student organization. However, there were problems inherent in the old Mountebanks that made its existence impossible. As it moved from a student dramatic · club to a more faculty directed program, Mountebanks found more and more responsibility (especially money) which was difficult to manage. Those students most interested in the theater became interested in acting and directing, while those involved in managerial positions weren't interested in acting and performing as much. They cared about .the theater, but didn't have the experience in performing theater and thus didn't really understand what the theater was about. ••rt is circumstances of evolution of theater common on campuses of our size and not a question of right or wrong . Evolution is important to un- derstand. \In small colleges, you have an English Department with someone interested in the theater, and a club is formed around that teacher. The seeds to the theater start in the Eng~ish Department. As in- terest grows and more students become involved, a student club forms and there is then a fina·ncial base from student tax• -not an English committee tax. \There is movement from an academic program to a student- . funded organization. As that club wants to develop and improve through more ex- tensive training, additional teachers of performance are brought in. Movement from literature to performance exists. \Mountebanks had faculty involved in a student club which is against the constitution. As develoi(ment occurs, theater goes from fun to theater as an artistic discipline to be mastered. \Why do I stay at Union College and not seek other schools with bigger con- servatories in theater? Well, at Union College there is that analytical mind that I find fascinating to work with. Those students accepted have a On my travels, dissective mind capable of analyzing scripts as opposed to what you find in many drama schools where only theater and acting have. been studied, and the students have not studied anything else and they are therefore very narrow minded . They are provincial, boring people. Here at Union, they come from many disciplines such as psychology, biology and chemistry. When you bring together that analytical ability coupled with talent, you then have the potential for a very good performer or director. When this kind of student's energy of mind and talent is chaHenged in the art of the theat-er, they respond with great relish and enthusiasm. They want it. And so, I think being at Union College, you find a desire by students who don't come here to study theater or the arts. In theater, they find a release for their potential. Here, many students don't take time to take advantage of what the arts department can release inside of them. It is not just Union College students, but people who want a sense of a fuller and richer life. A life of not just thinking but something that engages both their mind and body. ''Theater is tasting and ex- periencing the taking of something concrete and making it come alive. It is the bringing of the analytical mind and the taking of what is foreign (someone else's work) and then digesting it and thinking of it. \I delight in finding new talent. I find it very exciting to work with someone who never knew . that he had such talent and discovers that he does. There is then a breakthrough in discovery. ''What is important is the doing of theater. I don't lecture to students. Students learn in doing. ''F'Or me, real artistic liberation comes from restrictions. Real creation comes out of restricted con- ditions. Art comes out of the tightest and most restricted conditions. Therefore, the term 'artsy-fartsy' is ridiculous. It is what I call Willing restrictions on yourself that stimulate genius and potential. You a1·e freed not in abandonment but in creative restriction.\ I came upon a fork in the road Hesitating which path to take . .... . One signified friendship The other knowledge. .Then far in the distance, I could see the sunrise And it became my revelation. For I, like many, made my own path And continued my journey. ··jmc · 464 State St. we deliver Schenectady 374-1888

.. Page ti BULLETIN .BOARD To: All campus OONOORDlENSI$, May 29, 198(} class.ifieDs from Flipper, Wench, Housewife, Max, and Chester. Here's to next year! Lou--Party tonight!!! at Joey: Meet you again Russian New Year's?! Don't work t<lo hard next year, Take care.__ Ellen 'toni-Squeeze the peasant, finally ERNSO-S~, when are we going ford-squared and coffee? F&G CONGRATULATIONS RQDENTS for wino.ing the Championship Softball game! And thanks to Jeanette'sGravy Girls for a tough and exciting game. organizations, clubs, frats, sororities-Please stop in the Student Affairs Office at your earliest convenience to advise our office of summer mail in- structions for your club or organization during the stun- mer months. To Dana, Tom, Helen, Clyde, . Fe and Mary, It's been a great year, thanks for the memories Leve, Ellen NEIL & SEAN: Remember, you car.~ still cash ir.~!! But, you'd better hurry up-time is running out! :View From ffle Stands . . •· .. We love you Ronni, Love 4th FitzHugh Ludlow T-shirts and . floor west guys beanies are on· sale in the ------~--- Student Affairs Office. Rooms for Rent. Peter Pause Rest. 535 Nott St. 382-9278. $80 per month per person. All those interested in for- ming an Acrobatic Dance Class, fall term of next year, come to an organizational meeting in Arts202on Tuesday at 3:30p.m. No experience necessary. Call Alan at ext. 6479 if you can't make it. 3 Bedroom Apt. available for summer subletting. Close to campus. Reasonable rent. ( 1046 University Pl. l Call 393-5105. Loft for Sale-has springs and shelves included. Call 370-6457 or see at 216 North. Hilmer-11 Rob & Jeff equals 1 Ike equals ZILCH love DW2 22, Schaghticake isn't that far, Bambi To Chris, Vic, Barry, Stu, Rich, Matt--Thanks for everything - ---------------- Simmons: If I don't go to California or Europe, can I live with you and Condello? DC: Beware of Brad! Have a great time in Bath. - North: If you don't write at least one \you know;, 1 won't believe the letter came from you. NINATCHKA--Enjoy tile boulders. The midgets we'U be fidgetty without you. We 'II riever teach Without you.- THE 5;0's Tatiana--P'er la tua corn· pleaoo!! Buon fortnnato. ·A questa estate alla Boston-'Ci.ao 011611\':~·· Tlttllfl5, . (0 .. 1< Oil~$& THE.QPEN DOOR 136 Jay Street 346-2H 9 Downtown Schenectady · Continued from page 7 Bill 'Rodgers ran away with his fourth .in a row As Jacobs Olympically decided not to go Nehmiah leaped above the heights of the crewd .And Rosie :Ruiz remembered once standing proud 'The rope-a-dope topic was knocked around once more .As champion Tate fell to the fllor A sma<Her Frazier emerged on the boxing· scene While the courts tried to keep it dean - -- . Bowie found a ~ontroversy m the heat of the night / While Miller stood for player's rights The Mets, new owners declared they'll be the best Whfile Anderson loomed in the Birds nest If you would like your mail forwarded to an address other than the one listed in the Student Directory during the summer break, please contact Diane Elliott, Student Affairs as soon as possible. -Lost--one faded Lee jean jacket. Embroidered sun on back. Someone is going to get hurt if I don't find it! Joe, room 219 West College, 3.70-6796. Six hot tickets for General meeting for all Biology majors and all in- terdepartmental Bio majors June 2nd at 4:45 p.m. in the Banquet Room. Next year's Juniors and Seniors interested in running for Biology representative, must submit a petition with 25 signatures by Bio majors by Friday, May 30th to Pat in the Bio office. PLACEMENT Mr. Frank Raposa, Electric Power and Propulsion Branch, Transportation Systems Center, ·U.S. D.O.T. will be a speaker at Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall, on June 2, 1980 at 12:15-1:15. Bring your lunch, coffee, and soda provided. He is also in- terested in employing senior EE's and ME's and would like to speak with junior EE's and ME's concerning Int. in Systems, in the placement office at 9:30 on June 2. If there are any seniors who are in- terested in employment, please stop by and let us know. PERSONALS Fellow Reemers: It's been a real pleasurable experience sharing meals and mellowreems with you every day and sometimes twice a day. I'll ml~ my mellowreems over the summer ... maybe I'll meet you all somewhere for a quick mellowreem. Laurie, The Mellowreem Queen Wanna buy a raffle ticket? I? Duke..,·Lacoste called and wants to know where you got those green velvet shorts!!! Edmo-5 cents a day for each overdue signature. .. cool summer Duke and Edmo-Thanks to the best Clambake coaches <'?- ~- -. -·~o'\' -~ ...r.,. \\'£:• ~If'>'~-~~ --~~ ........ ~ .. -· ... • ..,.~~\\ •Vf-<rl'~-« .. - f\\XIJ-..,_., • .,tJ:r[-;J· I\~ ~·•.r ....,.o->:Mo<V:·• -~-,,.,.-<(.~!:•«\~· -•~#'oj'l.-·;<1. Klosterman and the Rams lost their chance at the elusive bowl As Tatum let the greusome story told Roger the DQdger threw his final touchdown pass As McKay lead the Buccanneer cast But sports is not always a game _to cheer As the fun often brings a. tear We lost the life of a Yankee hero With Thurmon MunsoH goes deepened sorrow The inning.'s over and the games complete As the fans begin to leave their seats _ And althoug.h each event must come to an eFJd You can catch the score in A View From The Stands. 6p A Vie byDOU( This year ir Onethat wil From New Californi~ These areth most byD1 With th1 column of tl would devi< and do sc Instead of column, I th up with a c lists for tl possible te< fun to watc another. N.B.A. A G. Lioz~l G. Freadie C. Artis G: F. John D1 F. Bob Me N.B.A. G. Norm J G. Otis Bi C. Bill Ca F. Dan R1 F. Bobby N.B.A. G. Eddie. G. Earvin C. George F . .John J, F. Marqu1 TheA Tha r. Fuffy I lB. Willie We Continued also a education. trend pla1 liberal , precario1 remain ec upon a sc ciple, affi in pra('ti( the liberal to insure today's s1 those e students their inte1 well-bein~ If the Anton V mission ol philosopt practice curriculm intentions suggests · out of statement is going uniquene:: create goc: course m cording realizing The ver exists i Hot Continuec When c: housing construc1 mitory reacted responde of housil trends 1 '~There's we don't class sl.Z1

OONOORrDIE NSIS, May ~9, 1980 A View from The Stands: by DOUG SILVERSTEIN This year in sports was indeed One that will go down in history From New York 'City to the California coast . These are the times I remember The Year In Spo~ts At forty years Yaz got his three w . · · · thousandth hit- o~en ep1erged astutely m the The Steelers grabbed an dn- As counterpart Broch called it wworld of sports . credible third crown quits, lth • ~m~e Meyers trymg but As Fouts passed the ball around Rose claimed he found A falling short . Piscarcik was continually brotherly love nd Tracey Austm portrayed a pummeled to the ground Wh .l F' 1 few strokes Wh'l th J . t' t 1 e m ey and Martin kept As G • . R' k \ d · .1 e e u1s re 1r.emen - the A's above , . ~nu~ne · IS create caused little sound . mtlhonaiPe folks OT: Teams For Thought most byDAVERUDEN . With this being, my last column of the term, I theught I would deviate from the norm and do something different. Instead of writing a regular column, I thought I would come up with a couple of teams and lists for thought. These are possible teams that might be fun to watch for one reason or another. N .B.A. All No-Pass Team G. Ll~Free G. Freadie Brown C. Artis Gillmore F. John Drew F. Bob McAdoo N .B.A. Underrated Team G. Norm Nixon i 2b. Lenny Randle SS. Tim '-Foli ' 3B. Richie Hebner LF. John Milner CF .. Amos Otis RF. Ken Singleton SP. TomSeaver or Nolan Ryan RP. Tug McGraw The All Ex,Met Team That Would Be The Most Fun ToWatch C. J.C. Martin lB. George Theodore 2B. Phil Linz SS. AI Weis 3B. Ed Charles IF. Larry Stahl CF. Don Hahn RF. Dave Schneck SP. Don Cardwell RP. Cal Koonce look at on tne face-off) The Worst Yankee Infield Of The 70's 1B. Danny Cater 2B. Horace Clarke SS. Jerry Kenney 3B. C::elerino Sanchez A List Of Scrubs That Played In New York During The 70's (It Could Go On Forever) 1. Torn Riker (Knicks) 2. Hawthorne Wingo (Knicks) 3. Luther Rackley (Knicks) 4. Jake Glbbs (Yankees) 5. Dooley Womack (Yankees) 6. Bin Monbouq.uette (Yankees) 7. Jerry Butler (Rangers) 8. Jim Neilson (Rangers) 9. Rod Seiling (Rangers) 10. Jim Stienke (Giants) Darryl Dawkins shattered the NBA with ferocious style While Magic ·Johnson answered the can of the wild Bill Walton showed he couldn't last a year As once again Doctor J came so near Miller won his first in almost three campaigns As Ballesteros brought the U.S. to Spain A man named Fuzzy showed his driving skills While seniors Palmer and Snead remained under the hill . 'In the Olympics Americans stuck up for themselves As we put the Soviets back on the shelf Heiden skated his way into fame, But the bobsled failed to shine Union's nam.e Page 7 A youngster named Sampson decided to not turn pro While the Bruins struck from far below Darrell Griffith leaped through players and fans But Syracuse failed to take conunand Bjorn Borg proved he was still king of the court While at 16 Tracey ruled the sport The kid from Forrest Hills opened it up But the U.S. could not win the cup The Islanders beat the critics and Flyers to crack the ice And Gretsky.-.added some teenage spice Hull and Howe finally merged on a mutual scene As the Rangers line shifted to Jordache Jeans Chinaglia emerged as the man on the ball As soccer began to really stand tall . Messing lead the indoor Arrows to ? league crown As best continued traveling around Continued on page 6 G. Otis Birdsong C. Bill Cartwright F. Dan Rm~ndfield F. Bobby Junes N.B.A. All Johnson Team 5 Of The Ugliest Athletes (There Are Many- Just The First Five That Came To Mind) 11. Rocy Thompson (Giants) 12. Jim Del Gaizo (Giants) 13. Dick Selma (Mets) 14. Joe Foy (Mets) Overview G. Eddie Johnson , G. Earvin \Magic\ Johnson C. George Johnson F. John Johnson F. Marques Johnson The All Ex-Met Team That Is Still Active C. Fuffy Dyer lB. Willie Montanez / 1. Leon Spinks (Needs teeth badly) 2. Otis Sistrunk (Could use some hair and a new face to go with itl 3 .. Darryl Dawkins (Don't tell him he's ugly) 4. George Foster (Why do you think he hits so many horne runs?) '5. Lanny McDonald (Scary to · 15. Bob Heise (Mets) O.T. Goat Of The Decade: Joe Pisarcik-I don't think I have to remind you of that day when Pisarcik fumbled away a Giants victory. Just one question. Would you buy a book on how to pick up girls that was endorsed by a guy who can't even hold on to a footballZ. by DOUG SILVERSTEIN Warde's Comments • • • In 1972 Roy Boe and associates decided to bring a team to Long Island the culture bed of New York. The NHL had adopted a new f.ranchise, the New York Islanders. A man Qamed Bill Torrey was · ap- pointed General Manager, and the franchise was conceived. The Islanders w~re required to pay the league, the Rangers, and others a total over ten million dollars, the value of Cedarhurst. The team was in imminent debt and it was therefore imperative that Boe discontinue shovel\ng money into his New York Nets and draw fans into the Coliseum. J.P. Parise, and Jean Potvin. As the years went on, the Islands achieved the uncanny reputation as be~ng a strong regular season team, but a weak playoff team. They gained victory over the Rangers in New York, but when the Rangers emerged victoriously in 1978-1979, they stole the city away again. Going into this season, there were many calling for a shakeup of the Islanders, while many believed that the Rangers would Continued from page 1 also a less expensive educational investment. This trend places the future of the liberal arts· school in a precarious position; they remain economically dependent upon a society which, in prin- ciple, affirms its existence, but in pra<;tice, discourages it. If the liberal arts institution wants to insure its own relevance in today's society, it must meet those expectations which students perceive as vital to their intellectual and economic well-being. . · If the above comments of Anton VVarde convey the mission of Union College, is this philosophy justified in its practice at Union? Does our ~urriculum serve as proof of our mtentions? Educational policy, suggests Warde, must be born out of a clearly defined ~tatement of purpose. If Union 1s going to insist on its own uniqueness, if it is going to create goals for itself, then each course must be evaluated ac- cording to its success in realizing these goals. The very fact that Union still exists in 1980, educating engineers, computer scientists, English ma'jors, psychology majors, comparative Com- munist studies majors, is testimony to some success in achieving a diverse curriculum. Warde believes, however, that there are individual courses, individual d~partrnents and educational programs which · must be concretely evaluated as to how they achieve and fall short of their own goals. These are aU issues which the EPC shall consider as they attempt to formulat~ a long-term curricular plan at Union. Chairman Warde would like the EPC to begin asking such questions as: ' 'What are we currently teac bing that we ought not to be teaching . . . redundant courses . . . an aggregate of anrelated cour- ses? Upon what do we place too little emphasis within specific courses? Upon what do we place too much emphasis?\ In considering these questions, Warde requests that the committee deal practically with that one major limitation- scarcity of resoilrces: Does this reality, questions Warde, Housing Prob/ef!Js . • Continued from page 1 When asked if the squeeze in housing would prompt the construction of another dor- mitory on campus, VV ood reacted cautiously. He responded that an intense study of housing costs ahd national trends must be undertaken. ''There's a hesitation because we don't know if we~ll havethe class siZe in the. future, 11 Wood said, but \If there's a need that can be substantiated, then the College must take a long, hard look at that (tile possibility of a new dormitory).\ Asked about the sometimes mentioned plan of using the Girling Center for G.ollege owned apartments, Wood reacted very negatively. \I think that's impractical just by the bussing costs alone,\ he said. presume a continuation of the College's present policy of a \steady-state\ faculty? Warde asks, ''What percentage of faculty resources, department by department, should be allocated for (a) disciplinary offerings, (b) interdisciplinary offerings (e.g., American Studies, Comparative Com- munist Studies), and (c) of- fel'ings in 'general education' li.e., the Freshman Precep- torial program, special courses in the Liberal Learning categories 'A' through 'F', and courses in the Steinmetz Honors CurriculUifl)? And finally, how do we distribute faculty loading among the various depart- ments?\ Warde hopes that these are questions to which the EPC will address themselves. He hopes that policy receives critical attention before hastily ad- mitting it into practice. Warde suggests that if Union has the potential to offer a student an experience unique from other schools of similar yet not W.entical caliber (such as VVesleyan, Amherst, Williams, After choosing the popular and well known forward Eddie . Westfall from the Bruins in the expansion draft, the Isles chose invalids Craig C~u;neron, :Brian \Spinner\ Spencer, and Terry Crisp. It was not a team to be reckoned with. They ended the season as the leagues worst expansion temn ever as the Islanders failed to draw the population a way from their shopping. Their first line ever included Billy Harris, Germain Gagnon, and ])ave Hudson. The goalie was .Jerry Desjardins. The team played futilely compared to their expansion counterparts the Atlanta Flames. Over the years the team drafted stars like Dennis Potvin, Bryan Trottier, Clark Gilles, Mike Bossy and built a solid foundation in goal with Billy Smith and ex-Canadian Glenn \Chico\ Resch and forwards Bobby Nystrom and s·yracuse, University of - Garry Howatl. The crowds started to pour . in as the Islanders in their third year made the playoffs. Acquired were veterans Jude Drouin . challenge f.or the cup. · Over the season it appeared as if both teams were headed towards playoff defeat, but little did we all know. The Islanders with newcomers John Tonneli, Duanne Sutter, Dave Langevin, were not the team they were before. Two key trades dealt away Michel Bergeron, Billy Harris, and D:;~ve Lewis and brought in Butch Goring, an underated veteran center from Los Angeles, and Gordie Lane. a defenseman who has spent his career shuffling between the Washington Capitals and their farm system. Long forgotten were players like Bel't Mar- shall, Gerry Hart, Tom Miller. Arnie Brown, and Dennis Dejordy. Finally, the New York Islanders won the critics over as they now cannot call the Islanders a choke team. Some say they stole it away with poor officiating in the sixth gamf against Philadelphia, but no on( is going to take the cup awa) from the Isles. In just eighl years, the Islanders rose from embarrasment, financial setbacks, and numerous playoff dissap~intments to emerge as the leagues best team. For at least a year, Lord Stanley will enjoy the shopping centers on Long Island. Rochester, St. Lawrence) then the College must work directly on establishing itself as a viable alternative. The strength will lie in the goals of its curriculum and to what extent they are achieved. The EPC will be considering these issues for the next few months and will, it is hoped, be able to provide the Academic Affairs Council with a basis for discussion. The Academic Affairs Council will ultimately be responsitile for establishing a long-term currl~Ular 'plan at Union. ) Sports Information Job Opening The News Bureau needs a · · student who is interested in sports and grant-in-aid eligible to compile statistics and help provide news coverage of 1980- 81 sports at Union. Since the fall sports season . - . ·, ........ ~~ - . begins early in September, interested students should send their name, address, and telephone nwnber to the News Bureau, Lamont House, im- mediately. Please indicate the best tim~ to call. . '

' .I \ ,. I Page 8 . ~ ~ OONOOBDIENSIS, May 1J9, 1980, 5porte < . . . . ... , . . '' , . : •, . : . .·. , • : ' , . •. . , . . , . . :' . ' . ·, ·., '·:.- .t Sports Banquet Held: ' . . Union Team MVP~s.AWarded The Block U. sports baaquet took place last Friday night at the Edison Club in Schenectady. Most Valuable Player h(mors were awarded to one mern~r of each varsity athletic team. Beginning with fall- spa lis: soccer's MVP is the quicK: and aggressive goaltender Doug . crawford. For Crawford, it was · his second straight soccer MVP~ Football's most valuable is senior defensive tackle Steve McCarthy, who played an important role in a tough Dutchman defense last falL The cross country squad's. out- standing harrier this year is Adam Licht. Adam, a fresh- man, was a welcome addition this year, Women's field hockey MVP is leading scorer Butll.ania . Shukri. Buthania led the team in go~ls and assists. Out- standing volleyballer goes to freshman Bren~a Hugick. Brenda also plays ba~ketball in the winter. To wrap up the fall sports, most valuable player for the newly formed women's tennis team is Renee Vanutti. Moving on to winter sports, basketball standout Joe Car- dany combined· quickness, skillful shooting . and ball Basketball MVP Joe Cardany - handling, as well as aggressive defense, to earn his MVP honors. .Joe, a junior, has started at guard since he was a freshman. Hockey's MVP is senior goaltender Dave Josephson. Dave put together a winning streak of seven out of nine games; while sporting a 3 .. 9 goals against average. Out- standing swimmer this year is Chris Meyer. Chris holds four Uril.on College records, in- eluding the 200 meter freestyle, the 100 and 200 meter backstroke, and the 200 yard individual medly. Wrestling MVP is awarded to Matt Van Benthem. The senior captain led his team to a successful season. Indoor track's out- standing player award. goes to Matt Guilfoyle. Matt is the only athlete to win two MVP a wards this year. He was also awarded the spring track MVP. Women's basketball's most valuable - player went' to senior center- Sandi Key.· Sandi averaged more than 10 . points and ·to rebounds 9 game. The final award for winter sports is not an MVP, but rather a special honor given to the hockey player who uses . the most athletic_ tape.. This year's recipient of the coveted Johnson & Johnson award is frosh Don \Bumbles\ Beall. To wrap u,p the year, in sports;. the spring MVPs. The men's lacrosse award goes to senior captain Neil Kanner . .:--The · - outstanding attackman set two records this year including most career goals ( 135) and . most goals in a game _(10). Baseball's outstanding player is Joe Lavery. The senior batted an even .300, with 19 RBI and 17 runs scored. Tennis's MVP is Doug Rice. The senior provided a consistent win at second singles and second doubles. Golfer Ed Burndt received his team's MVP fo1~ leading it to a 6- 1 record. The women's lacrosse\ team awards_ its MVP to fresh- man Holly lioward. Holly, who ' also plays field hockey, led women's lax in goals and assists. And finally, recipient of th~ women's softball MVP is -seilior Dot Scarpinato. Dot, who also played basketball, is the· president of the Block U. Association .. The Sports Editors of Con· cordiensis would like to take this opportunity to thank all Union Col'lege athletes for providing us with sports news throughout this year. Hockey goalie Dave J9sephson · Football MVP Steve McCarthy Harrier Adam Ucht .. - Dot.Jg \Fried\ Rice Wrestler Matt. Van Befhem Neil Kanner

DISTORDIENSIS, May ~9, !980 - 6port Schweppes' Nerd Of The Week I \ j j by J .C. and B.L. After a 26-day retreat in the all night study, approbation must be given to Peewee Nerda - brother Irving \lke\ Kaplan. This act of utter and fearless nerdity and throatity will not go unnoticed on the Union College campus. It is for this very reason that he has been awarded the Schweppe's Nerd of the Week Award. Ike Kaplan concluded a fine term with a phenomenal 16-hour filibuster session with his pre- medical advisor. Kaplan has been a consistent patron Saturday nights. in the all night study. Last term, Ike finished second /in the overall nerd competition with a scorching 3.99 science cumulative average. He was second only to defending nerd champion Howard Pincus. I - ' When asked to what he at- tributed his brilliant success, Ike nervously replied: · \Well I owe it all to my parents. You may have heard of my father. He is the Stanley Kaplan·. You know, of the Stanley Kaplan pre- examination preparation , centers. I have been prepped ever since I was a wee, little nerd. My mother u~ed to tell me, ''Ike, if you study hard, someday maybe, God willing, you will become a doctor.' And so, this is why I am at Union College today and am achieving at such a superior rate.\ Kaplan's other records came in his extraordinary scori.l'lg on his Organic Chemistry aRd Civil Liberties final ·exams. He achieved a 4.00 in Organic and a 3.98 in Civil Liberties. In each case, he broke his own record established last term. After two :tears, Ike holds records in departmental honors. His mother is very anxious to see what further accomplishments Ike can achieve iri his final two years. Contrary to popular opinion, Ike is not always hitting the books. He has been known to carry a copy of Thoreau's Walden Pond with him into the lavatory. An active member of the popular campus fraternity, Peewee Ner'tia, he has been seen mingling at 'such festiye . occasions as Peewee Nerda's pre-examination study sessions. He can certainly guzzle down his warm milk and ale. We at Distordy want to congratulate Ike on his award and ~ive him the praise he well deserves. Pizza? 11 You want one? No problem! We'll cook one up specia I --· 'fh_e Union College way!. And we'll put on this week's special ·topping : ASBESTOS!\ • Sound ·good? You bet it doesl And you can order one right now! · Just pick up the phone and call me. Order it the way· you like. (We'll cook it the way we feel like.) Call us now! We deliver! (When we fe~~ like it.) Who kn.ows? We mig·ht get it to you sometime.

'; . •' DISTORDI~NSIS, May $9, 1980 Editorial Do you know what I can't stand? it is people who complain about apathy. Why without apathy where Would we be? Everyone would be participating, so that meeting rooms would be too crowd,ed to work in. All that hot alr being released would have a balloon effect on the building, and with the cost o:f buildings nowadays, who can afford to let them fly away. Well, maybe tnose nebbishy Salamanca WASPs could, but that is besides the point. Also, if everyone tires to be a leader, the role just becomes an ego~trip, and we all know that tripping can be hazardous to your health. So worry about your health not the college's, the country's or even the· world''s, they'H survive without you. Being non-apathetic is just a thankless job! ! ! I refuse to be .so \ stupid, so· here Union College-now you too can. be 8.n apathetic editor. Tell it like it is! ! ! · Crushing Pre-Registration Services will be held for 15 students who were crushed to death in the mad rush to .get pre-registration cards for the well- known ''rocks for Jocks'' course which is not, ironically, being given in the fall. These students were in line for the cards, when the door to the office opened up, and the human line ·of sweating, yearning bodies pressed forward, squashing the life out of fifteen of the unfortunates. Pictured below is the mass grave that is currently being prepared for the victims, given an appropriate place in Jackson's Gardens, right near the wed~g canopy. Eulogy will be delivered by Hans Freund who feels that his experience teaching the Bible as Literature course makes him -- qualified. The Dean of Faculty has informed us that those students who were not able to sign up for the geology course due to trampling and subsequent hospitalization will be able to sign up for the course the next term that it is given. .. .... <IJ .... til 11) Staff Box The maiority of the staff has decided to either graduate or emigrate to_ the British Isles. Those who are not, wish to rema·in anonymous. • • • til c 0 E E Vi Ill .... Ill IJ) > .0 0 0 .s::. a. A loyal staff member of Concordiensis mans the telephone daily. \1\/l:tenasked to comment on her position, she replied, \Ruff!\ Dear Clementine: Coafidential to \Burned at Stake:\ placed yourselt in, the only rectification could be to burn at the stake, thus admitting your membership in the Anti .:Student . Senate (a.s.s.). This sacrifice will enable you to preserve the secret pact which you hold with Angelo, Cliff, Bob, Thelma, and John. Thus, your problems are answered and remember what a volunteer fireman once told me: fake tears don't quench the fires of need. - I regret my answer will not arrive in time to prevent your demise. But, in my opinion, you should have given in to the students' demands for more Wood .. This was the only way in which you could have saved the dorms, seeing that none of your cohorts were able to arrive in time to save you. Under the circumstances that you had Ill c: 0 E E V) Ill 1.. Ill V) 0 ..... 0. ..c: !l.. Clementine Personals -sEs: Didn't you know that. pink lingerie was reserved for the bedroom? Creton: Now which of the tree was it you wanted? HeiDan Rosen ... feld:, no ... baum, no ... oh yeh, field! ·Ted Edward Bear: So you didn't get UMOC after all. Concordy Staff: Beware of the fanatic gar- bageman! Weed: There is pain in your camp. Bill: Love those..,sliirts. Bambi: I can't wait for your oranges. Iron- man. Vivarin is strength. Neil: You are the weed of all weeds. WDH III: STOP SQUINTING! ~ Hey Sis, did you hear about the flappers who ali caught fire? Hang the Tasmanian Devil. He's an ... D~ Booth: What's wromt with my ears? . Judi: Remember, I deserve more than just leftovers! P & N: What takes s-o long in the darkroom? DW's only exist in the minds of the wasted ... they are not really there. p b an On dyna the Befo prai~ prob play role Jadl by h Willi Play for VI Mol~ offtl to a reb< pla) mov Bit _J Ar his Don of 01 wee prisi was forn clad lOOSI gra< dire cha1 I en witr brid Thr1 of il host the conl -] incc yoru -l sh01 r- 1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I i I I I .I I lp

j DIBTORDIENSIS, May 29 1 1980 Judi's Maze hy Judi Chervenak I 1. -- j ~ -- ~---- --- - - - I I 1••• 1 •••• I I I ••••• I .. ••• I • ••• '------'- . I i I I I 1 I I -:_~I I. .,__\\ -- -~ ~lay Reviewed by BARTON H. LEVINE and JUDI L. CHERVENAK On Thursday, May 31, a dynamic new play opened on the Union College campus. Before we continue with our praise of the play itself, ap- probation must be given to the players themselves. The central role was played by Leroy Jackson who was given support by his two guardians, Tse Lane Williams and Gloria Wallace. Playing the part of two very forward young men, Earl Molson and Pete Miller round off the cast. The show tipped off to a fast-paced start. The action rebounded· from player to player, never letting the- movement lag. The highlight of the first half centered around a pass that Tse made at Earl who she has been courting for most of this season. During the in- termission, Geritol and · Gatorade were served. The second half opened with a tap and a clap, sending all the players scurrying to their pre- taped· positions on stage. The action centered around the cast's attempt to dance around the stage and out~dazzle the defenses of the audience. The story itself dribbled on endlessly regardless of the heroic efforts of the stars to lay it up for a success. We are more than hopeful that future efforts of the·all star team will be even mor.e successful in scoring points with the audience. Blue Skies ()t·er Union: Union Days And Nights: by THE UNKNOWN COLUMNIST. Three years ago, on a Thursday, my mather -told me a really funny joke about a cauliflower in a car accident. It would be a vegetable for the rest of its life. But, then again, humor--like a liberal arts education--is a subjective thin,g. For example, did you ever think about the way foreign languages sound? If you do take the time to stop and listen, you will pick up on this. As a writer, it's my duty to observe the 'little details of life that might go otherwise unnoticed. On the surface, this argument (what argument, right?; may be totally ambivalent. Well, yes and no. Some of my friends laugh at thin.gs that I don't. But, after some thought, I oRen see that it was I who have been missing the mark of this so- , calied \college humor.\ Humor, after all, is an integral part of what a college education is supposed to provide. The reason why some peopLe laugh at Union is institutional; it better prepares them to face the situations they experience here. For instance, last winter, on a slippery Tuesday, a friend of mine with a broken leg slipped on an ice patch. His crutches went flying up in the air and he went reeling into a sparkling backwards flop. Boy, you should have seen the look of surprise on his face! It was precious. I laughed so hard I almost forgot about hurrying on to my ·eight-thirty class. This is exactly the kind of stress relief that humor can provide. This is especial)y important at a place !/) c 0 E E IJ) Ill \\ ~ >- ..0 0 - 0 5: like this, where the work is - stressed, an.d the people are intense about it. Take the working conditions at Union, please. Ha. Only kidding. But seriously, things like just what makes one laugh is far from easy to determine. A plain zipper can be funny. But it's no simple open and shut case. Banana peels can be funny, or the name Fred. Who really can say? choose to live with these people. We're too young to choose. And what I really mean is that, hey, face it, we're all college students here, young adults all under Mine_rya. We're looking for the punch lines; we're living a limited life to its fullest capacities. Let's all laugh at the fact that nothing's really funny. Let's not waste good laughing time on the frowns of unfulfilled expectations. ~D.- Booth Is Censored I can. Why? Because I'm a great writer, that's why. Opinionated and powerful enough to have my own column in the paper. In a way, a column like this can be funny. Once again, I say yes and no. Instead of limiting myself to the binding constrictions of decisions, I see alternatives, wishy-washy halfways that, in their infinite wisdom, are neither here nor there. Let me venture here onto an intellectual plane. On the wing sif the laughless, boring tepid folks we come to love and share rooms with from time to time. We didn't necessarily One Wednesday, a friend of mine ·carne up to me (he had been lying on the floor) and started complaining about Union. Silly things like how he was a sophomore and how housing had screwed him and how he hated the breakfasts on Sundays at West. I laughed straight in his face, remem- bering that laughter is the best medicine and that I had forgotten to take mine that morning. My friend simply punched me in the face and broke my nose. Which only proves my point. Some people have no sense of hwnor. .by PAUL GROSSMAN Arriving at the threshhold of his garret room in North Dormitory, I rapped on the door of one D. Booth, author of this weekly column. Not sur- prisingly, the door opened and I was greeted by the statuesque form of a dark~tressed nymph, clad in nothing more than a loose-fitting satin sarong. A graceful sweep of her arm directed me toward the inner chamber of the master's abode. I encountered a room bedecked with pillows reminiscent of the bridesroom of an Arabian sheik. Through the evanescent swirls of incense smok-e, I ~pied my host, reclining between two of the soft, yielding pillows. I confronted D. Booth. -Dan, Why do you constantly incorporate sexual overtones in your article? -Basically, I feel a man should talk about things that he knows the best. I find that I am not preoccupied with sex; it's sort of like a hobby with me. I've always wanted a hobby I can do on my back. -But what makes you feel that you have the right to im- pose your . sexuality on the Concordiensis readers? (At this point, the girl at the door offered us hors d' ouvres, minus the satin sarong.) ~Forget it, let's move on to the next question. -Where (I asked, watching . the Gl1,1t._eus Maximus of the nymph, at its maxi.mus, move across the room) do you find such perfect women? -Why, right here at Union College, of course. Once these women are offered a little bit of loving care and consideration, they bec~me fantastic lovers. The only real problem I've had is that many of the women here ~----------------~-----------· Herma,,n's Atomic Submarines NOW BUY TWO, GET ONE FREE WHEN YOU PRODUCE THlS COUPON I AT YOUR NEAREST HERMAN'S RET All 1 I , OUTLET. REMEMBER, HERMAN~S IS : .· THE ONLY SUBMARINE WITH TWO POLARIS MISSILE LAUNCH TUBES. BUY NOW WHILE StJPPUES LAST! I I I I . I I I I I I I i I I I .I I I . - . . I -- ..... - .... --------- ... -~---\r.lt ______ ....,. __ - are really int-o S & M. Ther-e seems to be a real desire to be dominated. (At this moment the nymph poured me another glass of Tokay, her breasts brushing my arm.) -I forgot the next question. Uh, what do you like the most in your women. -The legs, definitely the legs. There's nothing_ like the silky soft feel of a freshly shaved leg. In fact, I've always preferred legs, even on chicken or turkey. There's something mysterious about dark meat, that hidden side of women. (Suddenly the nymph knelt beside me and With the most trained technique, which I feel certain that D. Booth had in- structed her in, she began . . . This article has been censored by the Board of Public Health and Safety! ) . Oops, I forgot the lens cap. USE· CON·CO-RDIENSIS ADVERTISING SPACE The Most Economical Advertising Alternative On Campus. Statistics Show It's The Best Because We Pay You. Hurry Before.The Printer Forces Us To Print Blank Pages. CaU 370-6155.·

\' c 0 E E V1 <tl .... ' <tl <./) >- .0 0 0 L Q_ Students Crowds of angry students, many carrying torches and assorted other combustibles, marched on College dorms last Friday night chanting, \We want the Koala,\ \Send us to the Ramada,\ and \Give us the Holiday Inn.\ The protest was Cl long-overdue reaction to the yearly housing shortage. Students had become finally exasperated with alternate side of the ro()m breathing rules in newly created triples and quintuples and the forcing of homosexual students to go back into the closet in order to alleviate housing shortages. Mount ~t. Achilles erupts over Union Burn Dorms Thus, the students were protesting. to have the entire campus moved to local motels instead of just the select few chosen by housing director Wood. UpJn reaching Richmond House, protestors issued their list of demands: A private bar and heated pool shall be provided on each floor of each dormitory, unrestricted checkout times, and the release of fellow lottery prisoners held hostage in the oasement of Hickok House. Dave Wood's reaction to the demands was an unqualified •maybe.' \The situation will have to be analyzed by the entire housing committee, a lengthy procedure since they were placed in off- off-campus housing in Guatemala,\ he said. The protestors then screamed, \We need more Wood for the fire!•-• and proced.ed to throw the housing director on top of the pyre. Security Director Cliff Woods was reluctant to appear on the scene, fearing for his life and limbs. As their demands were not met, the students decided to take the ultimate action. Led by a person known only as the White Knight, they proceded to blaze a path of fire. As the students saw the first two dormitories fu11 in flames, they were again struck by the ubiquitous Union malady, apathy, and returned home leaving a job characterized as half-ashed. Mt. St. Achille,s Residents of Delta Phi fraternity were awakened early Saturday morning by rumbling sounds emanating - from Achilles Rink. These early risers noticed steam, smoke and ash spewing forth From the dome, and reported their ob- servations immediately to campus security. The report was entered, but no action was taken, attributing the visions to excesses -of the night before. Only two hours after the first alarm was raised, activity on the dome increased and a full- scale eruption ensued. As the air became clouded with the tiny particles of ash, the students became more alar- med. Lava poured across the dome and onto the ground around the structure, sizzling as it made contact with Hans Groot's Kill. At the first sign 'Of eruption, area geologists were alerted. Led by Union's own Prof. Zimmerman, the experts sampled the m~terial and measured seismic activity. \This is a first!\ said Prof. Zimmerman. ''We have no recorded evidence of volcanic activity in a man-made structure ever before. I'm glad that the Union College Geology Department is right here in the thick of it.\ Prof. Stone was unavailable for comment, as he was busy photographing his f:;rmily in front of the erupting rmk. The most poignant comment came from a student who wishes to remain nameless. \This will put Union and Achilles Rink in the news like Ned Harkness never did.\ Student reaction to volcanic eruption. Squire Whipple Kosher? ' Students carrying torches to dorms --lnside- \ Susquehanna ;.Pubf is hers win Pulitzer Prize (or at least Printer-Of-The-Year.) • As of fall term 1980, the Union College Kosher Kitchen is being forced out of its present location, North Davidson. The task of finding a new ho:xp.e for the group fell on the shpulders of Dean Robert Kellett. After much careful thought he felt he was ready to announce his decision. \It was not an easy choice,\ he said. \Many factors had to be taken into account before the final location was chosen. Of all the possible places on campus, the Whipple Truss Bridge was deemed the most plausible.'' When asked what made the Bridge the most desirable place for the Kosher Kitchen, Dean Kellett immediately replied, \It's completely outdoors. The meals can be enjoyed while soaking up the beautiful- view behind the Achilles Rink. Fresh air also helps to stimulate the appetite.\ The use of the Whipple Bridge also has a few drawbacks, but they will be overcome by Dean Kellett's announcing an unlimited budget' for the renovations. In case of in- clement weather, a roof and walls will be -electronically raised from storage un- derneath. The utility lines will be drawn via a network of undg_rground tunnels from West College. For large functions, such as Hillel dinners or Bar- Mitzvah receptions. the main floor will be raised on hydraulic lifts, revealing a large catering hall tu1derneath, with a seating capacity of 500 people. \ Dean Kellett concluded his statement by saying, ''The new Kosher Kitchen is a large but worthwhile investment. I know that all of Union College will benefit from its existence.\· Whipp'le Truss Bridge-new site of Kosher Kitchen • ·4~1094 Jno.A. o.a. snopJozo4 S! anss! S!4~ fO sa6o~ JOOf 6u!MOIIO! 94~ !O 6u!pD9J 94~ lD4~ pau!wJa,ap ,so4, !OJaua~ uoa6Jns 941 :6u!UJDM ._ 1.. a.; +--- \' <1) ... a.. E '- 0 z >- .£:1 0 ·- 0 £ :l. Cl .... Q) - [/) ro a: E 6 :;;::! >. .a 0 - 0 ..c a.. All It': sittir few c subj1 that, form you'1 frien half- ject thos~ from elect must mim I hea out c blow jazz monl Wl periE Ear~ Tibb plea COml liste1 by a somE YF exce ort\\ jazz, well crea1 to dE itls s didn'

