Page 10 CONCOB/DIENSIB, . AprtZ 30, 1981 ••• \ \ Ices Sage-11 a.m. Men's Baseball vs. Mid- dlebury-1 p.m. Fibn \The Sting~'..-3 p.m.~ 7:30 and 10 p.m. in SS 016 SundayMay3 GeQeral I Nattices U.A.. Columbia Cable TV, 26 . include a series of workshops acql.!ainting wornen with __. · strategies for gaining em- ployment in today's -,Jab'or. · market. For information on the workshops, call HSPC . at 372- . / 3395. . ~! b •• - ' \·c:; • u.. Q. 0 • - ._·61· ~?'. Fihn \The Sting\-8 1«> ·p~m. in ss 016 · Burling Lane, New Rochelle, · If you are looking for a change of academic and geQgraphic environment, consider studying this summer as part of UCLA's learning community. ~'- ~·u ., ~.. o • • ~ ~--~·i ~,... ..., ... Qu~\.f..\'\ .. J-....,;- t,; Wllat's Hap·p~qirpg Friday May I Parent's Weekend Men's Tennis vs. Col~ate-3 p.m. Softball vs. Ulster C.C.-4 p.m. Film uThe Sting\-8 and 10 p.m. in SS 016 Saturday May 2 Glee Club Concert-8 p.m. • Memorial/ Chapel Louis Ballson Orchestra-9 p.m.-1 a.m. at Ramada Inn Ballroom Men's Lacross vs. Hamilton-· 2 p.m. . Play \Noah's Not\--8 p.m. in Nott Memorial Women's Lacross vs. Russell MondayMayt NY 10801,. is interested in an . Intern for Experience ONLY. · No special commitment, full · time or part time., Will be Women's Lacross vs. working 'with local original Williams-4 p.m. . cable TV programs, sports, : news, special events, studio Tuesday May 5 ; cameras, audio equipment, · technical production, portable Baseball vs. Albany-3 p.m. . equipment (weekly news Film ''Kiilg Kong\-8 and 10 :assignments), sports specials. p.m. in SS 016 This is a professional respon• , sibility. Hands-on experience Wednesday May·& valuable for commWlications ' career. Please call (914) 235- Baseball vs. St. Lawrence-2 · 5121 for further information. p.m. Men's Tennis vs. Middlebury- The Human Services Plan- -3 p.m., · ning Council Displaced Film \King Kong\ and '«Dr. Homemakers Task Force, in Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\ --8 p.m. in cooperation with a group .of SS 016 community organizat.ions, is Thursday May 7 planning a Conference on \womenReturning to the Work· place.'' This Conference, open Men's Lacross vs. Hamilton- ·· to the public, wiil be held on 4 p.m. • Saturday, May 2 from: 9-1 p.m. Cabaret--9 and 11 p.m.-- at the Schenectady County Cabaret Room. • Community College and will / Bring your parents to COFFEEHOUSE Friday Night at 8:30p.m. Tickets One Dollar (Ava i'lable from Mrs. Marra and at the. door) DON ARMSTRONG AND , YlaORIA GARVEY Come, relax ancl have some coRee anl do11uti. state residents do not have to ,pay nonresident fees. However; enrollinent in Summer SessiDns at UCLA does not constitute admission to the University. This year the University will : . offer more than 400 special progl'ams and courses spanning-· 40 subject fields from the .. physical, natural, and social · sciences to the arts, humanities, . and other professional fields. . The two six-vveek sessions, • begb!ning June 29 and again AugliSt 10, are open to all · students. Those who are out.:.Of- Summer Sessions students have an opportunity to earn degree credit,. take classes otherwise unavailable, enhance ~­ career prospects or gain cultural and intellectual enrich• ment. ·A special appeal of Summer Sessions is the smaller Oq T~e Greek froqt those participating. Not only was .a good tim.e had by all, it Eleven teams will participate also gave ef!ch group the chance · in the Delta Gamma Olympics to do something charitable for on May 9, 1981. The following the underprivileged. Olympians ... . tea:rns have entered: Barney Derby Day teams should R11bble Fan Club, Butterfield consist of at least 10 girls with a · Bombers, Duval's Destroyers, larger number acceptable up to Galllma Ray, . Homogeneous 15. If you.areWlable to amass 10 HerDes, Repus Duts. Tran- girls, please give us a call so · sylvania Ten, Southern Com-. that we can try to work forters, Southern Rockers, something o11t with other girls · Victorious Viscosity, and a ti.o- in the same situation. name team, yet to give us their A Sigma Chi brother will be name. assigned to coaCh your team The ten . members of each and he will explain the rules and tea:rn will be given aT-shirt that · scoring of the competition~ sbo11ld be worn on the day of the Please contact Greg ~IIC· OlY'mpics. The top three teams zynski or Rob Quish at 382-9582. will receive prizes. Each team . will have a coach from Delta Chi PsiCharlty Patty Gailliiia that will discuss the rules and events with the team. Chi Psi presents its 9th 8nn11al One event for the Olympics is Spring Charity Party. Costwne the selling of raffle tickets, theme is \The Future.\ The costing 50 cents each or three party will be beld Saturday, . for $1. The proceeds from the May 9th at 9 p.m. and it Will raffle tickets will go toward benefit the National Hemophilia Delta Gamma's National and Dystonia Foundatii)n. Foundation Project: Sight · Donation is $3 dollars per Conservation and Aid to the person. Blind. Many local merchants have donated exciting prizes for the raffle. The winners of the raffle will be announced during the Olympics. Sllpport your favorite team and Delta G8llllll8's National Foundation Project by buying raffle tickets from your favorite team. Derby Day Attention Union Women! The 13th annual Sigma Chi Clam- bake i.s fast approaching and in asS<Jciation with it is the 4th annual Derby Day Competition. Initiated three years ago, Derby Day was an instant · hit with . I Suitcase Party Delta Phi would like to an· nounce its fourth annual Su.it· case Party which takes place May 8 from 11-4 a.m. at the Girting Center. There will be ·a nwnber of prizes given away throughout the night with the first prize being an all-expense paid weekend trip to Bermuda for you and yo'.lr date. It'll a .great time! ·. T~ts are 13 dollars on sale ih Student Activities and may be pur· chased from Mrs. Marta. Beer will be free; donation for mixed drinks. Tropical dress is mandatory. DO IT! Ul 'C '- aJ ..c u ii ell 'i: aJ 6 ~ 0 0 .c D. See you therel Cabaret Room, Camegie Senior Mike Hall wrec;:kini 'em for breakfast at 5:30a.m. in the 'Skellar. The Spring Fling Weekend, sponsored by the Rathskellar in conjunction with Budweiser Inc. raised approximately $300' to benefit Muscular Dystrophy. .- ~ CIJ '0 >- c: V) 0! Ill (/) :::i >- .Q ell fo stl tO- Se Hi ~ we OJ G~ M; at UJ AI ch lu atl as at1 At of bu p a v tl tl g 1\ b a F q 0 n fJ a tl 1 1\ a rl v

.. , .. ; class sizes, allowing more time . for interaction bet.wee-n students and faculty. All courses are drawn from · the University~\s curriculum and are taught by University faculty . and visiting scholars. For more information, write to. the UCLA Office of Summer Sessj.ons, 1254 Murphy ~ll, 405 Hilgard Ave., Los Angeles, CA . 90024. Volunteers are· n.eeded /to work at the .1981 'Specjal Olymprcs Area 10 Spring Games to be held on Sunday, · May 3,.Sarting at 9 a.m. at the athletic field of the State University of New York at Albany. The volunteers will chaperone athletes, serve lunches, assist in running athletic · events, and perform assorted other jobs. . Interested persons should attend a meeting on Saturday, April 25th at 11 a.m. at the steps of the physical education building on the State University Fox-Davidson 50..50 Jtaffle The drawing date has been . post~ned so more people h,....ave an opportunity to win the many valuable prizes, this including the first prize of 50 percent of the total money collected, a $20 gift certificate at Fox and Murphy Sporting Goods, beer balls, dinners for two at Ingrids and Peggy's, pizzas from Fireside and Gepetto's, two quarts of Jack Daniels, bottles of wine, champagne, and much more. Buy your tickets now from Fox and Davidson HAs and Dorm Council Reps while they last (the tickets, that is). The prize drawing will be at the May 15 party. Attention Seniors Thanks for your positive response to our preliminary survey! Since we now have additional information regarding the availability of various facilities, the Senior 001.¥00:8D:1Ji)N818, .April 30, 19~1 of New York at Albany campus. For more information, contact Special Olympics, PO Box·1980, Schenectady, NY 12303. The French New Wave Film Series will offer Le Samourai on Thursday, May7at 7:30p.m. in SS016. • 'l'he Faculty. ~eminar in Linguistics and Philo~pny will meet in the Humanities Faculty Lounge at 12:30p.m. on Friday, May 1. The toJ)ic for disc.ussion will be Saul Kripke's \Naming and Necessity'' (copies of the · article can be borrowed from Marge Windstone, Philosophy · Dept. Secreta.ry). The reading for the May 8 meeting will be Hilary Putnam's ''The Meaning of 'Meaning',\ also available · through Mai'£e Windstone. Professor Richard Taylor will be the guest speaker at the next meeting of the Student · PhiloSophy Forlllll, May 6, at 9 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge. The topic will be \The Philosophy of Love Affairs,\ about which he has written a book. The Philosophy Forum also hosts a Philosophy Lunch· Table every Wednesday from noon tilll :30 in the Pub. All are welcome. Fling Committee has arrived at . a short list of options. Please help us once again by filling out a survey to be available in fropt of Carnegie Nonday thru Wednesday afternoons, May 4- . May 6. The res(X)nses gathered by this survey Will enable us to make .a final decision. If you are unable to stop by Carnegie at the above times~ there will be survey forms available in the Student Activities Office. WATCH FOR FURTHER DETAILS AND 'l'iCKET SALE INFORMATION 1 I.E.F. Amounces Proposal Deadline The deadline f()r propo!;!als to the Internal Education Foun- dation in two categories-- student-initiated. research projects and \educationally innovative projects\-falls on May 15. Notification for awards in both categori~s will be made by June 1. The deadline applies to • tees FOR SALE: Black and White . TV. 13\ good reception, only ,, one. year old. Price negotiable. Call 374-6228. Ask for Chris. One or two places have opened up in the $umrner · SOcialized Medicine Program. · Anyone interested should contact the Terms Abroad Office immediately. The · program begins on June 15. Students now interested in the · Peace Corps or who might be in the ,future should plan to attend a meeting on May lat 2:30p.m .. at the Placement Center. MIT graduate avlUJ.able for . tutoring in French, Math, Chemistry and Biology. Call Ranan at 377-9267. Attention Seniors: We're looking for furniture in good condition. Call 'Kim or Mary at 370-4276. Furnished Apartment for Lease--Four ·.bedroom, full kitchen, bath and living room. Less than one block from campus, near MohawltNational Bank, 1583 Avenue A. Call J.im · at 377-1837. Found: A lady's watch at lacro~e game at Garis Field proposals for projects. to be · undertaken during the Summer and-or Fall term. Proposals for student• initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs office on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. This year, in its fourth year of operation, I.E.F. made awards totalling $83,660 to 47 projects. The approved projects were among 60 requests for a total of $149,386. Some $100,000 has been provided by I.E.F. for the 1981- 1982 academic year. Inquiries about I.E.f'. and proposal deadlines should be directed to the Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs. 1--- 1 I .:---- .about 3 weeks ago, Owner can claim by description. can Btad, 377-9042. To all those people who participated in SDT's Skate-a- thon £or M.D., please collect and return all your pledge money to SDT as soon as possible. Any questions call Sheryl at 370-6729. Thank you. Towards a Revolutionary Central America.\ The discussion will be held on April 30 at 7 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall. Rooms available-Phi Delta . Theta, next fall. Great location (above new field), flexible meal . plans. Call John W. or John M. at 382-9730. There will be · a panel discussion on \What U.S. Foreign Policy Should Be WANTED: Full Croquet Sets for Rent. Call Steve 382-8973 or 346-2468. Thursday, April30 Rich H~pe and Rich Decker MC-BiU DiConza Shows at 9:00 and 11 :00 Tickets on sale at 8:00p.m. at Camegie \ WINNE.R 7 ACADEMY AWARDS BEST PiCTURE · BEST DIRECTOR BUT STORY AND SCREENPLAY \0•1grnaL1 BEST FILM EDITING • BEST ART DIRECTION BEST ScORING .Adapraroorol • BEST COStuME DESIGN PAUl . ROBlRT NfWH&N RfDfORD ROBfRT6H4W .._A b'lL/PHUrP~ PROUU( it()~~ QF A GEORGE ROY HILL FILM 1Hl~DN6 A mCHMD D IANUCK;DAVID BROWN PRESEN:AIION Wutlert.!Jo, 01retled b~ DAVID S WARD GEORGE ROY HILL Prodt.(ed bw TONY BILL O\ld MICHAEL & JULIA PHILLIPS ~tusrcAdapted b'f.MAR~lN HAMU5CH-• fECHNICOLOR ' A UNIVf RS.Al PICTURE < ()<!IGINAC 'SOUNDTRACK AVAILABLE I PG 1\\'~· ;.:;; .. ~L;~.si>HI EXCLUSIVE LV ON MCA REt:OADS AND TAPES ~ :.1__ Presented bv Union College Another Film Committee · Presentation! ,.~

Page 12. OONOOBD11!1N818, Apri' 30, 1981 ' . ~s & Culture Schenectady Museum Present$: Art At Union- · The Union G.;~llery at The Schenectady ,Museum will present\\ Art at UnJon:· An Exhibition of Faculty and Student Works/' with an. opening reception on Friday,, May 1. The exhibition wiH contain works by Union College faculty members Martin Benjamin, Arnold Bittleman and Charl.es Steckle.r, along with works by the students .of the College. Also features at the reception at 5:30p.m. will be pe.rformances by students of the College under the direction of music faculty member Michael Della rio. Martin Benjamin, Assistant Professor of Art, will exhibit recent large ( 16 x 20) black and white infra- red photographs. Benjamin's photographs have been exhibited nationally, and he is a recent recipient of a 1981 CAPS Photography Fellowship. Arno·ld Bittleman, Professor of Art, will exhibit recent prints and drawings. _ Bitfleman's work has been internationally exhibited, and ls included in private and public collections including a recent acquisition by the Brooklyn Museum. -- 'Saratoga Springs, New York, 1980' by Mar.tin Benjamin (1960) - Charles Steckler, Associate Professor of Art, will exhibit his drawings in mixed rrie_d ia. ·~Steckler's background is in stage designandvisual a.rts, and he has had one-person exhibits a:l: Queens Col.lege, Russell Sage College and the ~chenectady Museum. Also included in the 11 Art at ·Unio·nu exhibition will be works in drawing and photography by students of the College. The student work will comprise two thirds of the exhibition, and .displays rich and varied approaches to making drawings and photographs. 'Los Angeles, 1981' Photo by Assistant Professor of Art, Martin Benjamin At 5:30p.m. during the May 1 reception, there will be a performance of Kurt Schwitters' Ursonata for· solo voice by Julie Kabat, an Albany composer and performer of new music. Schwitters, best know for his collages and concrete poetry, composed the piece between 1922-32. An introduction to the Ursonata will be given by Dorothea Dietrich_ Boorsch of Yale University immediately prior _to the performance. At 6:30 p.m., there wiH also be a performance ot ecLIPSe, a polylingual composition for seven speaking voices, directed by Assistant Professor Michael Dellario, of the music faculty. Composed in 1977-78 by Walter Branchi, professor of experimental mus-ic at the Ross.ini Conservatory in Pel)aro, ,Italy and Renato Redio, poet and semiotician, the work received its American premier Jast year at Union. 0 All. the photographs here are examples of the work that wi II be on disp-lay at the museum. ABOVE: \Self Portrait, 1981\ by Pr.ofessor Judith Rohrer LEFT: \Self Portrait, 1981 11 by student James Archibald ( '81) The exhibi1 wHI continue through June 14, 19 81 . Please call the Mus.eum for information at (518) 382-7890. - [ The lacros 3 .rec remai headE seaso Mart~ teaml last. y1 power The defea Frida: Iaxste Oneoli better cuts, Defen solid and t, matcl Shukr kept captai valual Leadi sopho and l goals Katz· sop he added forma On Union toMic astro Colle€ but st to pl« highl Sopho Sue I spirin on g< (and· took i lapse! swere be tl Findi.J Shery with respe1 In . Union prove the vi: condil cause rough Even more they Wells the g were How a SA'

L.ax Going Strong The Women's Varsity lacrosse team has compiled a 4- 3 .record with four games remaining and they appear headed for their strongest season ever. Under Coach Marty Morrison's direct;ion the team has greatly improved over last. year's squad and is truly a power to contend wit)l. · The women's lacrosse team defeated Oneonta 12-6 last Friday at home~ The women laxsters definitely outplayed Oneonta and displayed their better skill with well•timed cuts, passes, and shots. Defensively, Union .played a solid game exhibiting support and teamwork throughout the match. Captain B uthaina Shukri played a fine game and kept the defense alert, while captain Nancy Colt provided valuable midfield connections. Leading scorers for Union were sophomores Emily Monosson and Holly Howard with four · goals apiece. Junior Sheryl Katz tallied three tihles while sophomore Debbie Goldberg added o~e in the winning per- formaace. On Wednesday, April' 24, Union's lacrosse team traveled to Middlebury,Vermont, to face a strong team from Middlebury College. The laxsters lost 13-5, but showed that they were able to play well against a more highly skilled squad. Sophomore and first year goalie Sue Bloomberg played an in- spiring game stopping 52 shots on goal. The more seasoned (and preppy) Middlebw·y team took advantage of two mental lapses to score several unan- swered goals, which proved to be the margin of victory. Finding the nets for Union were Sheryl Katz and Holly Howard with two and · three goals respectively. Emily Monosson with one. Coach Mor;;ison .stated that Nancy Colt and Buthaina Shukri hustled all throughout the game; and that Sue Ensel did a fine job on defense. The women's lacrosse team ventured to Oneonta, New York, over Easter weekend to meet a tough team from Hartwick College. While Union lost 8-4l, they definitely showed Hart~ wick that Union is to be regarded as art up and corning power. With thirteen minutes gone in the game and Union 'do:wn 6..(), they were able to pull together and produce a tight zone defense that stymied the potent Hartwick attack. After being down 7-2atthe half, Union came storming back in the end to outscore Hartwick 4-1, though this still fell short. Goalie Sue Bloomberg played an excellent game and turned away numerous shots. Buthaina Shukri and Sue Ensel led Union's defense. as they th- warted any Hartwick attempts -to score. Holly Howard scored . four tim.es while Emily Monosson and Sheryl Katz scored one apiece. The women's junior varsity lacrosse team under the direction of Marty Morrison and Chris D' Alsand.ro is presently · enjoying its most successful season ever. While their recerd stands at 2-4, tney have lost three games by a total of four goals and in two of those game~ in overtime~ Captains Joan O'Connor and Peggy O'Rourke are providing the leadership and spirit .for the young team. Defensively, sophomores Beth Meyers and Maureen Avalle have been doing el[cellent jobs while K:elly Green and Melissa-· Beth Gruen are ringing the offensive nets. Both coaches commented on the greatly improved sltill of the team and feel that the remaining games should bring positive results. On Saturday, May 1, both women's lacrosse teams will play Russell Sage, beginning at 11 on Library\ Field. All spec- tators ar.e greatly appreciated, so make the effort to watch exciting women's lacrosse. In a first meeting between Union and Wells College, Union proved to be stronger, defeating the visitors 5-4. The cold, windy conditions that .1 were prevalent caused play to be sloppy and rough throughout the game. Even though Union possessed more skill, work and ability, they were unable to defeat Wells until the final minutes of the game. Scoring for Union were Sheryl Katz and Holly Boward with two apiece, and Women's Varsity Lacrosse Team: Top (I tor): Garcia, Burnett, Colt, Howard, Shukri, Schuster, Kozera. Bottom (I to r)~ Katz, Stein, Ensel, Goldberg, McGrath, Bloomberg. UPCOMING WOMEN'S LACROSSE Women's Sports Writers .. ' 5-2--R. Sage A& B 5-4--Williams 5-7--Hamilton WOMEN 1 S LACROSSE STATISTICS RECOR.D: 4-3 Union 6, Hartwick 8 Union 10, Skidmore 9 Unjon 5, Wells 4 Union 5, Army 13 Union 5, Middlebury 13 Union 13, R. Sage 1 Union 12, Oneonta 6 SCORE-RS: Holly Howard 24 goals Sheryl Katz 13 goals Emily Monosson 8 goals Liz Garda 5 g_oals Debbie Gc>ldberg 3 goals Nancy Colt 1 goal Mary McGrath 1 goal Sue Ensel 1 goal SAVES: ·Sue Bloom berg--111 - 13TH ANNUAL C.LAMBAKE Saturday, May 16th 1 -6PM Sigma Chi Fever 11:00 H 4:00 H 4:00 H Commentary: Needed Call Cory 6629 Support or ,Appease In order to ascertain Union College's compliance with the provisions of Title IX, a careful review of many aspects of Union College has been com- pleted by both the faculty and administration. Discrimination against female students, although apparent in many areas of the college., seems to be most prevalent in the athletic program. As a female athlete, I anxiously awaited the results of the- department's self evaluation. I carefully read through the eight page examination curious to find the ''delicate area's\ where discrimination was shown to exist. These areas were relatively few and easily enumberable: .,meal general, preseason :varstty meals, pre- ~ game meals, recruiting policy, etc. Unfortunately, the justifications for these inequities . are so easily available within the athletic department's report; meeting game schedule commitments, schedules of contests prior to school, school calendar, maximation of income or revenue from each sport, preparation for game schedule commitments. Perhaps the department as well as the college is satisfied with these excuses, however, I feel that neither the report nor the prevailing opinion of the · women's athletic ·program tell the full story. To devote more money to buying $200 uniforms as op- posed to $45 ones or to give $300 for recruitment letters instead of $30 (as it now stands) is not the real answer to remedying the failures of the female teams. Mor-e importantly, the problems lie in the lack of support and general interest of students, faculty, staff mem- bers and administrators: It has · hard to be a diligent athlete, to play with confidence, to have self-esteem when from nowhere do you get an impetus. It is true that one should get a degree of self-satisfaction as she grows close to perfecting her athletic ability. However, this is not sufficient to beat teams that -have players with personal motivation as well as a gym packed with spectators. Coaching is still another area supplying motivation for the athlete where Union is clearly deficient. The coaches have no time to adequately prepare for each sport. No sooner does Sheila Weaver take down volleyball· nets than does she hand out basketballs. Women's sports (and each individual one in particular) are no one's priority. They are not even the priorities of the par- ticipants. This. disease of apathy is becoming detrimental to the program in general as the Continued ~n page U

Page.14 OONOOBDIENSIS, AprU 30, 1981 Women's Softball Team: Top (I to r): Sigda, Gutin, Bailey, Wrenn. Middle: O'Donnell, Downey, Liese, Bonk-Vasko, Roth. Bottom: Wright, Pllotis, .Petersen, Hugick, Leblanc. WOMEN 1 S SOFTBALL COMPOSITES Hope for -States By LINDA GtJTlN The Union College women's varsity softball team had Jill outstanding week, winning bOth games it played. On F·riday the team slugged its way through its ,game· with Skidmore, scoring a season high total of 28 rtms on a season high nwnber of hits (27), compared to Skid~ more's 8 runs. Taking part in the romp were Kirsten P~terson (3 for 4), Lynn Leblanc (5 for 6 ), and Unda Gutin (4 for 4, in· eluding a home run and a triple). On the field bright and early (too· early) the neXt morning to warm up for another game, in the cold and cloudy S.Chenec- tady weather, the softball team hosted Oneonta State. And once again tile Union women un- mercifully sent their opponents home with a loss. The Dut- chwomen beat Oneonta 5-3., in a PLAYER AB R H RBI AVG Upcoming Wom,en's So.ftball game played tightly by both teams. :lJ'nion worked together, in a one for all and: all for one; znusketeer .. ltlte fashion, to produce their first errorless game. Defensively, Union played a heads up_game behind' the strong an~ consistent . pit· clii·ng ·of ace pitcher Dina Pliotis. The infield, made up of Pliotis, Kelly Liese (3rd}, Puff Downey (shortstop) Lynn Wright· (2nd),- Carol Wrenn (1st), and Lynn . LeBlanc (catcher), played very tough defense, keeping Oneonta from capitalizing their baserunners into rWis scored quite a few times. Similarly the outfield, made up ,of a combination of Brenda Hugick, Carolyn Bigda, Kirsten. Peterson, Linda Gutin, and Karen Roth managed to keep Oneonta's hits and runs to a minimum. OffensiVely against Oneonta, Lynn LeBlanc continued her hitting streak with a triple, Carolyn Bigda drove in 3 E~Is, while Carol Wrenn dr-ove i{l 2 RBis by hit- ting her second homerun of the season. Wrenn 14 10 8 9 571 Leblanc 21 9 10 8 476 Gut in 15 10 7 8 466 Liese 16 6 7 1 437 Petersen 12 4 5 2 416 Bigda 23 5 7 6 304 Hugick 21 6 6 6 285 Pliotis 18 4 4 3 222 Bailey 10 3 2 4 200 Downey 18 9 3 1 166 O,Donnell 6 3 1 2 166 Wright 14 2 1 1 071 Bonk-Vasko 2 0 0 0 000 Note: These statistics do not include Union 1 S game against Oneonta, played 4-25. GAME RESULTS Union 7 Union 16+ Union 8 Union 10+ Union 2 Union28+ Unions+ Union 7+ +--indicates wins_ by Union R. Sage 8 {9 innings) RPI10 St. Rose 13 Albany4 Siena 8 Skidmore a Oneonta3· New Paltz 0 {forfeit) RECORD: 5-3 CoiDDleittary • • • Continued from j;Nlge 131 failures mount. If the College wishes to maintain this program, it will have to make Women's athletics (and its improvements) a focus of its support and no lon.,ger an ap- peasement to the female student. A couple of weeks ago, a wise man told me that if you are going to do something, you had better do it right, or not at all ... I'd like to put on my uniform and not search for the nearest bleacher to hide under. Editor's Nott: The preceding article originally appeared in_ the Union College Campus Voice on May 5, 1976. It was written by Donna Sockell, the highest scoring women's basketball player for that ¥ear. I~ i~ in- teresting to consider this ISsue today, nearly five yeurs after this article appeared, and just over ten years after women were first admitted to Union. AlthoUgh the campus attitude towards women's sports has improved along with the ac- ceptance of women at Union and the national campaign for women's athletics, there still appear to be deficiencies within the athletic program. Donna Sockell wrote, \If the College wishes to maintain this program, it will have to make Women's athletics (and its improvements) a focus of its support and no longer an . ap- peasement to the female student.\ In many ways, this statement still rings true. Sockell mentions Sheila Weaver, who had too little time to prepare for each sport, due to jumping from volleyball to basketball. What about Lynne Barta, six years later? She does essentially the same thing, coaching volleybaD in the fall and basketball in the winter. However, in the same breath, one can say that women's coaches really aren't spread far enough. For example, I was 5-1--Ulster ·CC 5-6--Albany O'Donnel,l with the tag talking to one frustrated runner the other day who was com- menting on the fact that there isn't a women's track team, although she feels that-- there would be more than enough interest for one. Interest in spectating the women's games appears to be improving, thanks to the reconstruction of the athletic field and the fact that many of the games must now be played on Library Field. I would like to seethe women's softball games kept on the field by tlie Nott. They are more accessible to the entire campus here, and people willingly stop here on their way to dinner. At one :recent game there were an estimated .200 spectators, far more than ever before. Yes, there appear to be minor steps in the heartfelt en- couragemeJit of women's athletics, but there is still a long way to go, to support them in _ every way, without just ap- peasing them. 4:00 H 3:30 ·A Scoring against Albany On the whole the team's batting has shown consistent- improvement and now boasts 8 players with a .300 or better batting average. (Liese .421, Wrenn .471, Gutin .444, LeBlanc .478, Bigda .346·, Peterson .333, Bailey .333,. Hugick .300). · The depth qf the team is another important factor for winnb.tg games since Coach Jane Hl)pkins relies on the competency of reserves Barb Bailey, Karen Roth, Sheila O'Donnen, and Mary Bonk- Vasko. _ . With the team's current record of 6-3, they're looking for a berth in the state cham- pionships in which eight ()f twenty nine teams are chosen to participate. Co·ach Jane ,_ Hopkins feels that the team has ~ a good -chance of being chosen, ~ especially if the team keeps ~ playing so well. The team's Ql next, and last season's home _! game win be played this Friday VI afternoon on Library Field 11 against Ulster Community .E Cop.ege. Their last game is at _g Albany State, a team which the l:l. Dutchwomen have already beaten this seas~n, 10-4. Come out and support· your friendly college softball teiUJl. COLLEGE TALINT SEARCH DAY Thursday, May 7th- -1981 Undecided About Your Future? Schenectady Rotary. members and local industry representatives, invite you to spend a day in the business world ASAP-Before Monday, 5-4-81 I CAR~E~ER CENTER OF,FICE ·to make your appointment - r~ 10 point G By Thefirs1 men's int: played laf Red Divi! ZBT Shoes trine Delta Phf Chi Psi AD Phi . Yellow Di ·Beavers ·· Sigma Chi Rookies Faculty TDChi Dipsticks Beta Bom DChi Mer Yellow Di Paws Davidson Rangers Fii iS Phi Sig R Sweatsox Sigma Pt Entrie Entrie Play B Name: Phone Organ Entrie Play B Name: Phone Organ Entrie PlayB

, b OONOORDIENSIS, AprlZ 8tJ, 1981 'Page 15 BOXING TONIGHT :Intramural CHAMPlONSHlPS rovnds of 2 min. each ,Thursday, April 30 · Alumni 'Gym weigh-in 7: 15 Intramural Boxing 10 point must system lst Bout--7: 30 FLYWEIGHT DIVISION Vern Wetmore vs. Dave Zaltas 2nd Bout--8: 00 UGHTWE IGHT DIVIS ION Jeff Walber vs. Brian Walck ' 3rd Bout--8: 30 LIGHTHEAVYWEIGHT DIVISION Jeff Feigelson vs. Bob ''Hammer\ Hawkes Men's Softball: By DAVE PACE most total points, Dave Zaltas was able to squeek by with an The· intramural boxing BU1.5 victory. It was the competition got under way last beginning of a very interesting Thursday night. There were · night. The second fight of the eight exciting figbts, most of night matched Vern Wetmore which consisted of three roWlds against Don Marino. This fight ··of two minutes each. The fights proved to be a real war with all were judged by three referees three rounds being very close. based on the 10 point must Both fighters showed the system. , fatigue of battle as they barely . The night started off witb were able to lift their gloves Kyle Woodman facing Dave towards the end of the fight. Zaltas .in the 160 pound and Vern Wetmore proved to be under flyweight division. In the victorious in a very tough first round, Z.altas came out decision. He will face Dave with all he had and won the Zaltas tonight -for the cham• round decisively. Woodman .got. pionship of the flyweight everything together and came division. back to win the next two rounds. The lightweight division according to all three referees. opened . up with a one--sided However, because the 10 point victory for tough Brian '\alck must system declares the over Steve Wall. Dave Handler winner as the fighter with the met Bob Stratton in the next bout. Handler came out strong Game of 'the Week in the first round and won on all three cards. However, it turned out that he came out too strong as he lost by a technical knockout in the third round. Stratton was. one . of the few boxers all evening who showed good boxing fonn. The third lightweight fight pitted Scott. Fitzgerald against Jeff W alber. This proved to be. the closest fight of the night as W ~lber won by only one point, 88-87. Walck faced Rob Hammerly, .who had drawn a bye, later on in the evening. Brian won this one also, quite an achievement after already going through three tough rounds against Wall. Walber will face Brian Walck in the .championship as Bob Stratton decided that one fight was enough. 8yDAVEPACE The first game of the week for men's intramural softball was played last ~~turday tnatching the undefeated Fly Balls against the highly talented Holy Trojans. The game started out quickly with the Fly Balls getting two first inning runs off of siatier Bob Pavacic. Men's Softball Standings However, Gary Cohen, the ace of the Fly Ball's staff, let. up one run in the bottom of the first. and after one inning the league -, leading Fly Balls were ahead .2. A I,.EAGUE Red Division ZBT Shoestringers Delta Phi Chi Psi AD Phi . Yellow Division Bush League Batters W L G · Kappa Sigma 5 0 - 3 0 1 3 2 2 2 2 21(2 1 1 21!2 Orange Division Smythe a·-···· WFYL Trojans Gleason's Funeral Home ZBTB w L G . 1. Both pitchers calmed down in the second inning and did D()t 2 3 3 allow any ruils. j>ave Ross 1 3 Jlf2 tripled in. the Fly Ball's third , nin in the top of the third, and scored on Brian Pattison's .. . .. ': _ .~econd single_of. the afternoon., .. 5 o -. Down 4-1, the.. Holy Trojans 3 O 1· knew tllat they couldn't waste 3 1 Ph muchtime, and they didn't. Bob Jeff Feigelson, Mark Ziskind, and Bob Hawkes were the lightheazyweights weighing between 180 and 200 pounds. Hawkes drew a bye so the fight matched Feigelson, last years champ against Ziskind. After the first round, it looked as though ·the champ might be dethroned as Ziskind was able to trap Feigelson in the- comers and was able to use liis brute strength. However, Feigeloon came· out in the second round knowing that he had to stay in the center ofthe ring and use his quickness to win the short two round fight. He did just that and left the ring victorious. He will go up against Hawkes tonight in the third and final fight. The heavyweight fight was probably the most exciting one of the evening. Both John Simarco and Tim Williamson came out at the opening bell with fire in their eyes. Both men fought fiercely for two straight rounds each connecting on numerous devastating blows to the head. In the third round, Simarco seemed to tire a ·bit. Williamson took advantage .of this, won the round, and was declared the winner. Since there were oniy two heavyweights, Tim Williamson is the 1981 intramural boxing champion. Be sure to go down to the Alumni Gym tonight at 7:15 and see who will be- the champion of the other weight classes. Special thanks to Tom Collette, Gary Wenner, John Montanile, Mike Canning, John Jarosak and Dave Zaltas for their help in organizing this event. - ·Beavers ·Sigma Chi Blue Rookies ·Faculty 6 0 - l 0 21/2 2 1 21!2 0 1 21!2 1 2 31!2 Fiji C DChi Dogs Happy People Psi U 3 2 2 2 1 2 2 1 2 2 1 2 1 1 2112 1 3 31/2 Fafalak hit a tremendous shot to left-center field for a tr~ple knocking in two runs. The Trojans scored twice more that inning to take a 5-4 lead. The fifth inning proved to be the deciding one. The Fly Balls put Athlete of the Week TDChi • Dipsticks Green Division Beta Bombers DChiMen 1 3 4 0 2 4 0 3 4112 together three hits, one walk, good base running, and took Agents of Mu advantage of a costly throwiQg Empire 4 o - · error to score four runs. The B LEAGUE Fly Balls 4 o - Holy Trojans kept their Yellow Division Saratoga T & L 4 1 1 h penetration going in the bottom Fi i i B 2 2 2 of the fifth by hitting four Paws 5 o - South Knights 1 1 2 straight singles and scoring two Davidson 5 1 1 12 BuHerfield Bombers 1 2 21f2 runs. Leading 8-7, the Fly Balls Rangers 2 1 2 Chi Psi B 1 2 21f 2 went down in order in the top(){ Fii iS 2 'I 2 Holy Trojans 2 3 21f 2 the last-inning. It was do-or-die ~~~!~~!ed /' 2 \ 1 ~ i;>dm~o~~d;~x 0 1 1 3 2 v; for the Trojans. Mark Valentine Sigma Phi 2 2 21/2 Phi Sig Beer 0 3 31/2 led off the inning by reaching ~::::=====================:;'- first on an error. Speedy Jeff r Feigelson was put in to rllll. After two outs and a single by Dan Sommers, Neil Eisenstadt came to the plate with the game M~n's Badminton (doubles) Entries Due Men's Badminton (doubles) Entries Due: Play Begins: Name: Phone No.: Organization (if any)~ Men's and Women's Superstars Entries Due: Play Begins: Name: Phone No.: Organization (if any): Women's Horseshoes (doubles) Entries Due: Play Begins: Name: Phone No.: Or ~anization. ~i.f an ) : on the line. He hit a rocket down the third baseline which was snagged by Dave Ross who stepped on third to get the force out and end the game. ~May 4 Eisenstadt was unanimously May 5 chosen as the defensive star ()f the game with two spectacular catches on the left field warning track.Brian Pattison was named the game MVP. Brian, a cat· cher from Moriah, N.Y., went 3 for 3, had 3 RBI's, scored one run, and made a beautiful diving catch of a foul ball late in May 5 the game. May7 May7 Maya Support Union Sports By ROY JACKSON Dina Pliotis, ace pitcher of the women's softball team has been selected as Miller Athlete of the Week. Her outstanding performance on the field made such a, selection inevitable. This past week Dina led her team to two big victories over their rivals Skidmore and Oneonta Stat~. She helped raise the team record to a respec- table 5-3 While raising her own to an impressive 4-2, This is Dina's second year with the team. She has started eight games and has completed six of them and has made one relief appearance. Dina has pitched 43 and one-third out of a p~ssible 46 innings, given up 61 hits, has issued 20 walks, and has struck out as many as 20 Athlete of the Week Dina Pliotis batters. What is most out- standing is her earned run aver~ge (ERA) which is an ~azingly low 3.4. Dina has alos made a contribution to the hitting department .. Dina is a sophomore from Newburgh, New York. She is a Math- Computer Science major who has a fond interest in sports and other extracurricular activities. Recently, Dip a was selected as an Orientation Advisor for the new academic· year. Surprisingly enough, Dina didn't play softball in high school but her athletic prowess emerged in other sports. She ran track and was selected Most Valuable Player of her high school soccer team. We wish Dina and the team the best of luck for the rest of the season.

Page 16 ...................... .,.,~-CD \ ... L .,. ...... ,.. M~........,. I ' -- Planned outlay of Union's new multi-purpose field.(. r .l ~ ~I f L ' ~ ~ ~ ~ t ~ * ~ ~ ~A_ .. ···-~· . _.__. - ---- -- UNION ATHLETIC FIELD CONCEPT Runners Still Chasing 1st Victory By JACK CONNOR The Union track team ab- sorbed its second loss of the season as the Hamilton Con- tinentals easily topped 1he Dutchmen by a 104-49 score last week. Uni.on competitors finished first in only four of the eighteen events contested. Equally as damaging to the team's spirit was the loss of sprinter-hurdler Garry Wells for· the remainder of the season. Against Hamilton, wells placed. first in the 110m. high hurdles and second in the high jump, but in the 400rn. hmdles he hit a barrier and seperated his shoulder. The loss of Wells leave§,.... the team without a competitive hurdler for the remainder of the season. One of the few bright spots in the meet f{lr Union was the performance o.f freshman Garry Wenner. Wenner, nicknamed \th New Hartford Heartthrob\ by teammates, vaulted a personal best o.f 12 feet 3 inches to top Jim Zalucki by three inches and to win the pole vault. Later Wenner triple Jumped 36 feet 7 inches to finish second in that event. Wenner said \It's just too bad they didn't have the 6 mile today. I was set to run ·that too.\ In addition to the pole vault, the Dutchmen swept the first two places in the javelin. Chris Howd won the event with a \chuck\of 171 feet. while teammate Steve Lerner placed second with a toss of 148 feet. The Dutchmen's final win came in the half mile where Dave Dellehunt place~. first in 2:02.5. Dellehunt a1so finished second in the mile with a 4:35 clocking. -Other second place finishes for Union were by Jack Connor in the three mile (15.24), and bv Brad Kline in the hammer (37.69). Rounding out the scoring for Union were: Mike \Rhino\ Rothberg in the long jump (16 feet 10 inches); Bob Stelrnacski in the 400 (54.0); John Stimmel in the 100 and 200; and Mark Dunn in the shot, hammer, and discus. Union competes in ' the Colgate Invitational this Saturday and then has a dual meet against Williams and Trinity on Sunday. In keeping with tbe tradition of having the track team .as far away as possible during Parents' Wee~~nd, both meets are away. Fi.eld ~pdate: By ROB NORTON In recentyears Union College has been plagued by a lack of adequate athletic fiel11s. The lack of field space has lead to several problems. First, there are not enough fiel~s for team practices. Secondly, the large amount of intramural par- ticipation (80-85 percent of the student population) has placed an ever ·increasing burden on the playing fields. Thirdly, many of Union's outdoor facilities do not meet NCAA, ECAC, or AIA W standards, therefore the facilities can -not be used for playoff competition. FortUI1ately, a solution to these problems has been devised and are in the process of being implemented. An, as yet unnamed, multi-purpose field is being constructed where Alexander and Daly fields were previously located. The facility will have a total area of 152,000 sq. feet of which 78,000 sq. feet will be covered with Astroturf. The facility will also include a 400 meter, 61ane track made o.f · Reselite, a rubberized .asphalt material. This facility will be able to accomodate all outdoor programs within the confines of NCAA, ECAG and AIA W rules. This will allow Union to host any college playoff event. The .field will be lighted by a four pole system. The system will produce illumination of . thirty foot candl~s with a potencialto be increased to .fifty foot candles which is sufficient for television cameras. As of now no night games have been scheduled but the option will be available. The Astroturf sur- face .is guaranteed for eight years and is the first Astroturf in the United States to be both sewn and glued at the seams. The activities which will use the new field include football, men's ami women's lacrosse, softball, field hockey and in- tramJJrals. The Garis field, which was recently, renovated, will continue to be the primary soccer field but if conditions warrant the new field can be used for saccer as well. The Astroturf surface is ideal, for Union bem~use the limited size of the campus puts tgo much use on the natural playing SUffaces that presently exist. The Astroturf will be able to withstand the great amount of activities which will take place on the new field. Construction began last fall with the initial grading of Daly and Alexander Fields. Between April15 and Jllile 15 the grading will continue as well as in- stallation of drainage and electrical systems;..From June 15 to July 15 the asphalt base. for _ the field and the subbase for the track and field and the track itself wilT be installed. After the base is completed all that remains to be is the installation of the Astroturf surface in .preparation for Union Foot- ball's home opener against University o.f Roch.ester on September 19. Completion {lf the first phase which includes the astroturf .field and the instalbnent~ of temporary bleachers will cost 1 million dollars. The funds will come from the Bailey Fund Endowment. The second phase involves the erection of per- manent stands with seating for 2,500-3,500 people and the renovation remaining part of Alexander field. No dates have been Set for the completion at the second phase. The installation of adurable multi-purpose field should elevate the problems caused by increased participation in women's sports and in- tramuraJs. Lacrosse Contiriues Slump \- G) c \- CD .....J c G) > G) +- IJ) ~ 0 .... 0 .c 0. Dave Dellehunt lea~s the pack SPORTS HAPPENINGS Men's Varsity Lacrosse Men's JV Lacrosse Baseball Men's Tennis Outdoor Track Women's Lacrosse Varsity Softball Varsity Golf Apri 130-May 6 May 2 Hamilton May 2 Hamilton May 5 HVCC May 2 Middlebury Mays Albany May 6 St. Lawrence May 1 Colgate May 6Middlebury May 2 Colgate Open May 3 Williams May 2 Russell Sage May 4Wi11Jams May 1 Ulster CC April30 Williams, AIC lly STEVE MYERS This past week, the Union lacrosse team tr-avelled to the pleasant Vennont countryside to face the sticks of the Mid- dlebury College team. Aching for a win, the Union team began the game with a strong battle against this currently lOth ranked school in Division III lacrosse. The score stood at 2-1 through the first quarter, then the Middlebury team ~gan to capitalize on Union's mistakes. Unableto find a stick to hold on to the ball and keep it from their defensive zone, the Dutchmen quickly fell W1der by several goals to Middlebury, and, with a frequency of penalties, it seemed as though the Union laxrnen were buried for the game. Even the few goals scored by Sean Durham, Mark Sackerson and Marc Marro were not enough to match the overwhelming lead that the Middlebury team had managed to obtain. As the final second ticked away Middlebury triumphed with a 2~3 victory. Returning home .from Ver- mont, Union .then travelled to RPI to meet the enemy. Last year, Union had been severely embarrassed at home by this RPI team. Now, determined to show that all hope was not lost and that it was alive and kicking, the DutChmen were ready to-meet their rivals. The game proceeded, for the most part, evenly with each team .alternately scoring. .But by halftime, RPI managed to hold the lead at 7-4. The Union team played an inspired game against the Engineers, but RPI scraped up two goals from virtually nowhere, then in- creasing their lead by seven in the .first quarter. With the in- jury of one of Union's prime goalies, Steve Koses, and a .few key mistakes, time seemed to be running out for the Union team if they were to attempt a comeback. Even with the powerfUl offense displayed by the Garnet team, Larry Salberg scoring a hat trick, Mik~ Maluccio and Sean Durham both wi~h a pair, and Mark Sackerson, Jim Wright and Marc Marro claiming one each, the seven goal lead was too hard to handle in the limited time remaining in the fourth quarter. Closing the gap by two, the final score stood at RPI 15, Union 10. Here, Union played one of its better games than in tbe...past. Rob Fischmann clears the ball upfield Vol. Itb annou: Rober positi< wUI 1 Georg bus in• Durin. bas p fectiv1 was devel1 Affaii I \'I noun~ for D1 and a migb1 I Laf Studt resig: Unim acce1 De evokt from collel were unsu: him. llilSU Dear not. De had; a lon dec if pure Dear child fact< Kell1 maj1 K.ell~ thee s~ Ur stud trad cere thar stuc aca< som A1 Satt of ' awa Pri2 seni for! sen tea< plet m· Jan Nat fel11 inti 0 plic Sci• this rna 450, mo Na1 fell COD

ing in ()f all is ere the of ses my not $1) of tlle the I ~· ·' .set ... of the im .... to .. tll.e I < 1.. (!) c c C1J 1- >. 'tl c 0 ).. .Q 0 0 .c: Q. arents Welcome Many students find that they live two separate lives: tile one at sckool and the one at home. Some even retain the two ad· dresses, perhaps not wanting to break those ties or retaining a place of \permanence\ regardless of where they might roam. Along with a second \home\ may come a different group of friends, different activiHes and different ways of behaving, as opposed to their life here. Parents' Weekend affords students the epportunity to blend and to combine their two lifestyles in a most pleasant atmosphere. parents. are part of your daily life in every way. Attempt to meet your friend's parents. At one time or another, many of us have been surprised and interested to hear about our friend's siblings and home life·. It seems that here at Union we only see people in the context within which we met them, and on the basis of o11r day-to-day contact with them. It is hard to imagine your suitemate doing the fan~ily chores like taking out the garbage or dusting the furniture. Meeting the \folks\ might open up an entirely different facet of your friend's life to you and allow you... to learn more about them, in a new sense, rather than just in relation to the campus en- vironrnei1t. -. f ' i 4 1·~ t j ! ' en President's Message Welcome to our campus. This weekend, it will be 'your campus. As you will note from the program, there is a variety of events that will give you a wonderful insight into Union College. The Departmental Receptions, for example, show the academic part of the CoBege; Prize Day shows the ceremonial recognition of student achievement; the athletic events, receptions, films, and concerts show the social and extracurricular side of Union. I hope that you enjoy this special opportunity to get to know the place where your son or daughter is living and to share some of their college experience. Parents' Weekend is a unique opportunity to integrate home life with college life. When parents arrive, don't cmly at- tend planned activities with them, but let them experience \college life.\ Take them to the 'Skellar or Pub to show them where you spend your time and money. Point o1:1t the building where you study five hours out of the day. Tell them amusing stories about things that have happened to you on campus as you pass by a place that brings back memories (but be careful which stories you relate). Most importantly, introduce them to the friends. They would cer- tainly like meet the student that you stayed up with until4 a.m., \just talking.\ Tell them about your daily life, after all your Concordiens,is hopes that everyone takes advantage of Parents' Weekend, by not only experiencing the planned ac- tivities, but also the people who are enjoying them. Relation- ships, whether they are parent- child, or student-student, are essential, and Parents' Weekend is an excellent op- portunity to strengthen and broaden these relationships. There is a lot to be heard and seen, if you only take the time to explore. Have a great time, and enjoy the campus. President John S. Morris V.P. Greetings -The Editors I am grateful to the Con- cordiensis for the invitation to extend a welcome to Union parents who will be with us for the festivities this weekend. This will be my first Parents Weekend at Union and r look forward to it with eager an- ticipation. Union's raison d'etre is the academic program, of course, and I hope you will take every opportunity to learn as much about it as you can. There are two important events designed to acquaint you with the faculty, the eurriculwn and our views on the central importance of a liberal arts education: The Departmental Receptions at 10:00 AM and the Seminar at 1:00 PM on Saturday. This 1981 Parents' Weekend Committee has been working since Winter Term to plan a weekend designed to provide an opportunity for parents to participate in the Union of People. The planning of activities was a job that entailed working with established campus organizations as well as coordinating events to p'roduce a comprehensive schedule. The culmination of the efforts of this committee will involve the successful implementation of the wide range of activities outlined in this issue of Concordiensis. The committee members, from left to right, are: back row, Dan Cuozzo, Cary Moxham, Mike Andolina, Cheryl Dowtin, Katie Schall, Lorraine Marra, Steven Cardamone, Huda Abdulatti. Front row, Ruth Ellen Lewis, Michelle DeSimone, Carol Hanretta, Sheila Walsh, Carol Talbot. In the short time I've been here, I have come to understand a few things about Union that account for its Wlique success as an academic institution. We have a superb faculty, dedicated to teaching, scholarship and service·, whose commitment to the develop- ment of their students is truly exceptional. Our students are among the best and they have a proper sense of the balance between disciplined engagement with their studies and joyous involvement in the social life of the College. That combination of acuity and students is an unbeatable one for producing a lively and ex- citing intellectual community. Union is certainly that. I hope your brief stay here is an enjoyable one and. that I get to meet many of you. Vice President of Academic Affairs, Thomas J. D'Andrea ~-_,>\'-?.e.--.-.~...-..---.-\'~~ .. ~~1 lns1de: ~ - What to Do • • • page B ~ · Schedule of ~ page c ~· Events • • • • M page C • Sche Map .page D - Food, Drink, etc ..•• pages D-H

P~ge B (JONOOBDIENSIS, April .80, 1981, - What To Do - Prize Day To H·onor Students Prize Day will be held .again this year as part .of Parents' Weekend so that parents will, have the opportunity of seeing awards presented to their sons and daughters. The ceremonies will take place at 11:30 a.m. on Saturday, ~Y 2, in Memorial Chapel. The Chairman of Union's Board of Turstees will be on hand to welcome those who attend, and - Dr. MorriS, the President of the College, Deans and other college ad· ministrators will award in· dividual pri:tes whose ~ vaftleramounts to thousands of dollars. PriZes recognize ou.ts~ding academic achievement in'' tlu~ Arts, Sciences, B!ld Engineering and acknowledge outstanding contributions to the College in the areas of athletiCs and communith service.-· · During the ceremony, an· nouncements ate made of those students whose academic .achievements have resulted in their election to honorary societies for academic distinc- tion and research~ In addition to .prizes listed in the College catalog, the Wendy Bernstein Memorial Award, given by the student govem- ·ment, whose senior members select the recipient, will be presented to a sophomore for superior service to the College. Meritorious Service Awards voted by the Student Affairs Council will also .be presented to seniors. The President's Commission on the Status of W.omen at Union College will be awarding prizes to freshman and senior women for community service, academics and athletics. The Delphic Society, an honorary service organization, will be announcing its new members. The winner of the Watson Traveling Fellowship will be introduced, as will Union's E.T.H.(Swiss Federal Institute of Technology) exchange scholar. At the conclusion of the ceremony, a printed list of all prizes and their reeipients will be distributed to the audience as they leave ·Memorial Chapel. Departmental Discourses As you stroll around campus this weekend, why not stop in and meet some of the faculty at Union? The faculty feels strongly about close relation· ships with students and this attitude also extends to the parents of the students. In an effort to provide a clearer picture of the education offered at Union, the various departments invite all of you to meet the faculty. Faculty members frDm each depart-· ment will be present to explain the goals of their curricula and how this might pertain to your family. Also, feel free to stop in on the various exhibitions and displays that are being presented by each department. Although many of the displays may not be in the area that a son or daughter may be studying, they can be considered valuable in that they help to paint a clearer picture of the kind of education that Union offers. J)ifferent departments may very well present di.fferent approaches to learning. It is hoped that by meeting with members of the faculty, parents ,will gain a deeper in- sight into the curriculum and the excellent opportunities that Union has to. offer; One of the most important stf.engths of Union, or any college for that matter, rests· in its faculty. Union has excellence to offer. This weekelld is a perfect op- portlUlity to sample this ex- cellence. Besides, they're a pretty friendly bunch of people. Departmental meetings will be held in the roo:rm specified on the schedule in this issue. If you have any trouble locating the various buildings or rooms, refer to the map on page C of this section. Or ask someone that looks Uke they belong here. We hope that many .of you will take thiS valuable opportunity to meet and exchange ideas with the faculty.. For the Soul This Parent's Weekend will definitely be a busy one, but why not take time out for a little religion. Each of the major religious organizations are meeting over the weekend, and you and your parents .are in- vited to attend. Hillel will bave a reception on Saturday afternoon at 3:30 in Strauss Lounge. All are welcome, and you are en- couraged to bring your parents to show them what goes on during the year. Sunday morning, the Protestant Worship Service .will be held in Memorial Chapel. Rev. Stuke will officiate and the service will begin at 10:00. Following the service, there will be a reception held at Hale House. President Morris will attend the Service, and af- terward, will also be on hand at the reception. The Catholic Mass will be held at 7:30 Sunday night in Strauss Lounge in Carnegie. Any parents who are still visiting_ the campus are more than welcome, as is the general campus community. Having the Ultimate Time The Frisbee Club at Union was formed three years ago. At that time it consisted of one Senior, one Junior and about fifteen zealous freshmen. During the past years the Club has made an almost 'serious attempt to mature. The focal point of the Club has been its Ultimate Frisbee team. Mild interest has been shown in further organizing the various types of \disc\ play on campus. Few people realize that the campus has a folf (sic) course. Folf is frisbee golf. Its rules are the same as golf. There is one major difference between the two, however. There are an infinite nwnber of shots one must master before one plays consistently good folf. Freestyling has achieved the popularity ·Of co-ed knock hockey. But it is fairly popular among/the members of the club. Our focus, Ultimate, can be a fast moving and exciting sport. Basic skills and team spirit are· all that's really necessary. Come see Union's spirited Ultimate team play Hartwick on Alexander Field (up by t-he construction) on Saturday morning at 11:30 a.m. Union and Hartwick first met during the second aay of play at the Sectionals in Cornell three weeks ago. HartWick emerged the victors, by outscoring Union 2-1 in the second five-minute overtime. Come and enjoy an 1 exciting rematch ... Also don't forget to ask for our folf maps! ! For the ~Sole- It is 9 o'clock on a Saturday morning. H you could be doing anything right now, what would it be? You'.d venture out into the bri!dt morning air and go for a run, right? O.K. So maybe you'd 1rather sleep. How about your ;parents? I'll bet they would love to go jogging. If it is 9 a.m. this 'Saturday and they are he~ for . Parents' Weekend, send them on the campus jog. It is about two miles and weaves. in and out of campus. Your folks will have a great run and a lltUe tour too.· In the meantime, you can sleep, and the whole family will 'be happy. CheCk it out! · Dorm Receptions . · Receive All An important part of Parents' Weekend for independent residents on campus are the individual dorm receptions. These casual and friendly gatherings help make parents feel the sense of community that has been established throughout the year in each of the participating residence halls. In past years these receptions have been well at- tended; Participating this. year are West, North, South, Rich- · mond, Fox and Davidson residence balls. The receptions will be on Saturday, May 2, from U p.m. and refreshments ·will also be served. We en- t!ourage you and your parents to attend for an enjoyable time with your fellow hallmates and resident advisors. f Bell son · Louie Bellson is an artist many of us. know. There are some very interesting facts about Louie Bellson that make him an outstanding figure. Louie Bellson, drummer supreme;is like Joe Lou;,&, the boxer, Babe Ruth, the home run king and Clark Gable, the movie idol. · Ariy student of drums would know that he invented the two bass drUms. He started the idea of disappearing·drum spurs. ~e ' . Robert Walden/ st~r of TV sel\les \lou Grant\ T.V.'s 'Rossi' to .Speak Here Robert Walden, who-- plays newspaper reporter Joe Rossi on the television series l.ou Grant, will be the speaker l?arents Weekend. Sponsored by Speakers' Forum, Walden's, talk will begin at 8 p.m. Friday, May 1, in Memorial. Chapel. As an actor and as a man, Robert Walden searches for truth. He abhors the .inequities in life and is an outspoken crusader for human values. His portrayal of the hard-bittell reporter Joe Rossi on the award•winning \Lou Grant\ series for CBS is not too .far off the real Robert Walden. \I'm not really Joe Rossi,'' says Walden, \but 1 guess I do infuse a lot of myself into the character. I have to play him younger, a bit vulnerable, rumpled and .a li,ttle too siXUirt for his britches, but I find him a .totally honest guy with ·high ideals and impeccable in- His portrayal of Joe: Rossi \Lou Grant'' has Walden nominatiom my's in 1979 and 1980.· role has also given him an active in~r~st in journalism. His motion pictures-for- television incl11de, most recently, \Enola Gay\ which . will. air during tl).e 1980-81 season and. in which he plays the role of Dr. J. Robert Op- penheimer, father of the atomic bomb. He has also guest-starred on series such a!! \Medical Centter\ ''The Rookies\ \The Streets of San Francisco\ . \Rhoda\ and \Po~ce Story.\ He portrayed Donald Segretti in the. award-winning feature film ~'All the President's Men.\ His other motion pictures in- clude \Rage \The Out of Towners,\ \Pigeons ·-\New York, New York,\ \Capricorn One\ and \Audrey Rose.\ Jazzes Up Union invented the metal drum sticks and also the silent drum practice pad .outfit. Most of the contemporary drummers are just learning his technique today. Louie really has no peers. Artistically, no one can touch him. Every- band he has played with will remember his position as the best. When he played with Harry James, Harry once said after a fast tWte, \So that's the way that ending goes.\ · Duke Elljngton tagged him as the \World's Greatest\ because Louie can do evecythilfg. Some of LoUie's present friends call him the modem day Leonardo De Vinci of the drums. He is the ·most thorough drummer of all-he is a per- cussionist. Aside from this, he is a composer, arranger, and a conductor. Much can be learned about Louie Bellson from the com- ments of many people that have worked with him. Here are two such examples: \When · you say 'working with thetops,' that's what it is to me working with Louie. He's an allaaround, well-loved musician. To me, he's just like one of the family.\ -Ella Fitzgerald 'iOnce over atDonte's I sat in with LoUie Bellson's big band. Louie is a superb artist. There's so much hyperbole you can use but he's just one of the top drummers . . . per- cussionists in the world. And one other thing about Louie: he is a sweet, nice man. There are no pretensions about Louie, and I like that! \ -Johnny Car$on Union College is fortunate to have . Louie Bellson appearing here. He is one of the truly great performers in the .history of music. His. performance promises to be exciting and entertaining to. all those who attend. Tickets for the musical event can still be purchased in the · St.udent Activities office in Carnegie Hall or at the door. For more information, see Ms. Marra in the Student Activities office. Louie Bell son will appeal\ here on Saturday.

Schedule Ongoing Events Open gym--swim mir:lg', racquetball, ·tennis--locker rooms will be open. · • Film--''A Union of People: The Union College Story,'' n:30-12:00 a.m., and 1·1: 30 p.m., SSOl6. Athletic Events FRI!DAY 3:00 p.m.--Men's TEnnis vs. Colga-te, Tennis Courts 4:00 p.m .. -~women'sSoftbaH vs. Ulster CC, 4 p.m., Library Field SATURDAY n:oo a.m.--WomenJs Varslty Lacrossevs. Russell Sage, Library Field 12:1$ p.m.--Women ... :s JVt-.~.acrosse vs. Russell Sage, Library Field 1:00 p.m.--Men''s Baseball vs. Middl.ebury, Central Park 2:00 p.m.--Men's Varsity Lacrosse vs. Hamilton, Garis Field 2:00· p.m.--Men's J V La·crosse vs. Hamilton, Libr@ry Field · ri0 ' FfidCly, May 1 6:00\7:00 D.m.--Regls1ration·, Carneg:ie .Hall, Strauss Lounge 9:00 _p.m •. -- Robert Walden, Memorial Chapel 8:00· & 10:00 p.m.-- Film- \The Sting,\ SS016 · 9: oo &. U:OO .p.m.--Student-run Cabaret, Carneg·ie Hall Saturday, May 2 9:00 a.m.--Campus Jog--Exercise for the entire family, West College 9:00~12:00 a.m.--Admissions Interviews for sons and daughters of Union parents, Becl<er Hall (by appointment only- (518) 370-6112) 10:00-}2:00 .a.m.--REgistra-tion, Carnegie Hall, Strauss Lounge -10:00-12:00 a.m.--DEPARTMENTAL RECEPTIONS--an op- portunity to meet i nformaHy with faculty: --Math, Bailey 202 -followed by displays of Olivier models --Computer Science, Computer Center --Biology, S301 Science & Engine\eril)g --Chemistry, S330 Science & Engineering --Physi_cs, N303 Science & Engineering --Humanities, Lounge --Psychology, 213 Psychology --Liberal Arts (undeclared, undecided), Fourth Floor Lounge, Carnegie Hall --Social Sciences, Faculty Lounge, Social Science Building - Economics, History, Pol-itical Science, Sociology ·-Engineering, Combined receptions in Butterfield 204 followed by individual tours - Electrical Engineering, Mechanic@! Engin- eeri:ng, Civil Engineering. --Terms Abroad, 10.: 30-11: 30 only, 117 Humanities Building. 11:30 a.m.--Prize Day Awards Ceremony, Memorial ChapeL . 1:00-2: oo p.m.--Seminar- \Why Liberal Arts?'' A panel discussion with Union faculty and alumni on the value of a liberal arts education .in toclay's world, Stage II, Carnegie HaiL l:OO p.m.--Frisbee Club, Frisbee Field 1:30 p.m.--~enefit Bar-B-Q lunch for Union Day Care Center, Chester Arthur Statue :1:30-3: oo R.m.--Fencing Match, Library Fi.eld · · 2:00-3:00 p.m.--Open House and Reception for Alumni & Future Alumni, Alumn-i Office., Lam .. ont House · 2:00-4:00 p.m.--President's and Dean's Reception accompanied by the Union College Jazz Ensemble, Jackson's Garden; alternate . Hale House 2:30-3:30 p.m.--Information Session on Financial Aid, Stanley Becker H~ll 3:00 p.m.--Film - \The Sti.ng,\ SS916 . 3:30-4:30 p.m.--Dance Club Performance, Arts Building, Room 202. 3:30-4:45 p.m.--Hillel Reception,. Carnegie Hall,- Strauss Lounge 4:00 p.m.--Dorrn Receptions - meet the RA's and floormates, Lounges (Wine and Hors d~oeuvres before dinner) 4.:00 p.m.--Rugby Match, Library Field 4:30-6:30 p.m.-- Tri-Delta Reception, Ha.le House, Milano Lot:Jnge 7:30 & 10:00 p.m.--Film - \The Sting,\ SS016 8:00 p.m.--Student-produced play, Nott Memorial ,r- -I . -' ' 8:00 p.m.--Glee Club Concert, Memorial Chapel 8: oo p.m.--Coffeeh5>use, Carnegie Hall 9:00 p.m.--Dance and Concert with the Big Band Sound of Louie Bellson, Ramada Inn, Nott Street Sunday, May 3 10:00 a.m.-1:30 p.m.--Family Brunch, West Dining Hall 10:00 a;m.,~Protestant Ecumenical Worship, Memorial Chapel 10:30 a.m.--Protestant Fellowship Reception, Hale House 7:30 p.m.--Newman Catholic Service/ Carnegie Hall, Strauss Lounge ·''-' - .. _'. ~-

·pageD . . 09N002DIJJJNSIS, . .April 80, 1N1. Food&Drink UIIION ·-·· COLLJ;Oit ' ,. '• BRANDYWI:NE . D:in:er · . Welcomes :Parents to ioin us. for: -Breakfast -Lunch - -Dlnner Featuring: fresh baked danish, muffins, and other pastries. . · 2 Locations: South Brandywine Ave. 2025 State Street .•'A Good Place to meet your friends WELCOME PA:REiNTS : CJitd make new ones •• \ 464 State St. we deliver Schenectady 374-1888 W eleome Parents. Perrino's Restaurant And Cocktail Lounge Phone 37 4-4515 Ralph Perr i;no Proprietor · 2615 Rosa Road Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 \' r-~ p ·. 1 ':::::;7 e 'L! 12 on j, . ' Party Platters Our Specialty Deli Sandwiches to Eat and Take Out Phone: 393-0617 Have A Nice Weekend! - Mon.- Sat. 7 a.m.- 6:45p.m. Sun. 7-3 p.m. 1600 Union Street Schenectady, N.Y. WELCOME PARENTS Have A Special Time At • Ia Patisserie is a • •• French Pastry Shop with a distinguished product line of baked goods. In addition, Ia Patisserie · · o·ffers table. service at ou.r ·'Pastry --ca-··e' Ia Patisserie will be open the entire weekend. Fri. & Sat. 8 a.m. to·. . . Sun .. , f\loon to .... ~ . . ' - 45 S1

OONCOltDIBNSIS, April 80, 1981 Food & Drink 120 Lake Hill Rd. BurnfHifls '384-0051 J Sill Hall Your Host ·Old Homestead Country Kitche·n Restaurant Featuring: Vittles - Sippln' Spirits Page l!l. For 'Lunch: Deacon's Lundt, Granny's Special, Papa's Favorite For Dinner: Steaks, Turkey Shortcake, Ski !:let Chicken,. Seafood, Fresh Hot Biscuits, Hot Apple Crisp., NOW OPEN SUNDAYS Hot Apple Pie Welcome Parents Open 7 days a week Daily 10:30 a.m.-10: 30 p.m., Sun., 12-9 p.m. Svnday Brunch,9a.m.-1 p.m. Onfy 15 minutes from Campus M(!ke Reserva,tions for Parents' Weekend The Schenectady Ramada Inn · Crossing Restaurant 450 Nott SJreet, Schectady, N.Y. 12308 . Featuring: SizzHng St·eaks, Fresh Seafood, Mouthwatering Specials Breakfast Lunch Dinner 7 a.m.-11 a.m. 11: 30 a.m.-1: 30 p.m. 5 p.m-.-10 p.m. Featuring 1 p.m. till 9 p.m. Steaks & Seafood Cocktail Lounge 4 p.m: .. 'til12:30 a.m. DINNER· Mon. thru Thurs. 5 p.m. 'til 10 p.m. Fri.'\& Sat. 5 p.m. 'til 11 p.m. Sun. 1 p.m. to 9 p .. m. Corner Eastern Parkway and M cCiellan Stree_i,_ Schenectady m. W. Wagoner, Your Host Ph. 393-2186 aworlaad Fine .food & Family Restaurant Corner of Balltown Rd., & N ott St. Breakfast, lunch & Dinner - Specials Da-ily Sunday Brun·ch 11 a.m.- 10 p.m. ~'7\111 2 Ddiciooo Jlro,.mc:>. lncllJdes: Champagne, Soups, Salads and 7 ·~ Entrees with Vegetables~ Fresh Fruits & Desserts. Beverage also included. Only $6.95. And for Dessert Try Our Newest Ice Cream Trl3at \· '- For the total dining experience and a dinner you'll remember. Let Steak & Ale make it special. Come to o.ur old cou_ntry inn on Parents' Weekend. Our new menu provides a wide '(Oriety of seafood, steaks, prime rib, chicke.n & many combinations 2310---Nott St. & Corner of Rt. 146 For reservations lease call 372-5629 C=my'Wmilla Ice Cream. Hot l'udge 1{5 Wbipped C=m

•' Page F I \ ,. ' OONOORDIENSIS, April 30; 1981 Food & ·Drink lf:alio.n, Continental, American Food RISTORANTE .M:A. f!t.!fli· . ~ 1115 BARRETT ST. · SCHENECTADY PHONE 3'77-2642 or 382-8684 Welcomes Parents Homestyl.e Italian Cooking Salad Bar Included with · Luncheons served daily Cocktails served ISI3 -CBJfftiU, avuua C:OLOIIID, IUW 1'0RB All Pasta & All Dinners Reasonable prices .Plus a 10% . Discount to Union College Students with IDs · Phone: 869-0634 Just oH Northway, ·Exit 2W . . Banquet Facilities . ' Show them how smart Parents · you· really arel The Van Dyck proudly welcomes parents to cline at our restaurant. Join us for ciinner; enjoy a fine at- mosphere andfine dini~g. 237 Union Street, .... _ .. •. ;;;- :·. -~.:.! Gradu~tion, Holidays, Parents ·Weekend any time's a great lim.e .to take Mom and ......... ···-·· ·-·- .. - .. Dad to the BOG. We've got great introductory courses in fine dining ... that'll rlet you a 4.0 in good taste. IF YOU CANIJ MAKE IT TO lHE CAPE MAKE IT TO THE. THE- . & c:rdnoomto . . D0Y\'. ~ .,_!= \' 374-2406 Reservations Requested_ 4SCJ-511 0 Restaurant, Inc. · 56 Wolf Rd. Road Serving Daily and Sunday Welcome Parents of Union College New York Style Delicatessen • • feoturtn • Soups Kosher food Triple Deckers Sandwiches of all sorts Kosher Franks Fri: 8:00 a.m.-12 midnite Sat: 8:00a.m. -12. midnite Sun.: 12:00 Noon-12 midnite 160 Jay st·reet 382-5493 I SUBSCRIBE NOW! <!rllttlllrbirttsis FoumltJ at Union College 1877 Due to increases in printing costs an=d postal rates, prices for 1981-82 subscriptions will be going up. Using a new, well-designed system, next year's issues will be mliiled efficiently and promptly. Next year's price will be $12.00 per y~ar. We are making a special Parent's Weekend offer to· receive each a11d every issue of next year's Concordiensis. at this year's price of $10.00! Please reply before June 1, 1981 --------------------------~--- YES! Enclosed is my $10 .. 00 check (Payable to Union College) for my 1981~82 subsciption. Name----------------~----~~ Apt. Address _________ ~~-=- City State Zip Return To: Concordiensis Box No. 2517 Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 - 4 .

T. xt Y. \· . OONOOBDIBN.Blt April 30, 1981 Food & Drink D. . UNION <:OLLE.6E PUB RESTAURANT-: Welcome Free Carafe of Wine u T or c :,CHENECTI\OY;N:Y. 1Do8 ·1--l()L L 0\V Parents! Pitcher of Beer with meal Ho.urs: SANtm Of CORNER JU.tlJO II A~t':IUR.GERS Q.u41Ltu. .powtd 116 le.1111 I 001 b~t« gllilled to P~6t.cti.on ••••• .•••••••• , •••• , 3.0tl Jumbo Btlhg~ with Lettuc.t Md Tolllt.l.to,.... J. Stl Jumbo w.U.h Sow. CIU!DJII ruu{ Mu·M.o01116 •• :,. , 4. t5 Jumbo Bacon Cheue.bu1!4Ju. • • , •• , •••• , •• , , • • 4'.1$ li\ICfiEtiN SMJ1llll CHES r:'e.ubu - &aue..M.!tatt.t, CiM.Itr.d Ret.&, and St!t.iM rhe.ue, g~tltd an P.{tf. • .... ,. ; • .. .. • 2. 85 Vf:[UXE SA'J~Il(JIES• TendeJr. yoWtg wltUe. meat TMke.y !Jt<!&ltly R.o46.t.r.d. : • ••.••• ' ...... ' ............. r. 80 V.<Jig;(.n.f.a S.tule. Glazed Ham. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • r .7$ Egg salad, ~~~~tde. &tuh rWLy. • . . • • • • • • • . • • r. to Twtq Sdtld, a ta4tq .tlte.at ~~~~~ .tht. .• u .with Mayo ~d Chopptd ttl~~············· f.7D '.t.«.ve:d on you.t cltoier.~\' b.u.ad olt wU uti.th potato eJr..l.pa turd rUU pl.efd.t.. - . SOUPS B«he.d F~eneh Onic~t Soup Au~, in ~ndividUat C46~~ol~ .••.•.•••.•.••••• r.so llol'l!emttdt. .soup c' thr. da.!J. .. • .. • • .. • • • • • .. • 75 SALAP· 8A.R •• I- •••••••••••• \' ................ 9 •••••• 2. 25 VESSEr.TS: Kornrunad£ C~~~t CdRt w-Uft r~te.am Cheue FAot..Ung.. • .. • .. .. .. . .. • !5 ft.pple P:.i.t.. • • • • • • • • .. .. • . • • • • • • •. • • • • • • • • • • • • 7 • OD Clto c.ola.:t~>. lay !!A Cak~t • •••••• : • , ........ , • • 1 • 50 Mo. ~lode.o ••• ,. • •• •-• •• , ••• ~ •• , f. 00 I FR!DAY, May 1, 1981--lunch11:30 am-1 pm; Dinner 5 pm-8 pm (Reservations only) SATURDAY,. MAY 2, 1981--Continental ,Breakfastaam-lf am; Lunch 11:30am-1 pm; Dinner 5 pm-8 pm (-Reservations only) ENTREES IU • Sliii:OlN S,T£ AK Thlc.k and,Ja.lc.!f, bMU.ed to rVt 0 e.c:«on .•... 9.fS ROAST rmtr ~IllS OF BEEF Cat tht .wa.q !fOU Ullt .a: Kbig Cut; .............................. I 0. 9S (!ut.tn Cut. .. .. • • • • . • • • .. • • .. • . • • • . • • • • q • 50 LONVOH BI\'OlL lla.tbtttte.d ttl .pi!A&e.etion, t.uve.d uti.tlt hot gaJI.U.c. buttM 01! :to~t ..... : ............... 6. f5 BEEF t:U!OOS Mt:Vtlnattd Bf.t& eu&u wUII .t.aute.e.cl muAMcCJitl>, pf.J'Pe/1.6, on.l.on, 41ld dtfMIJ toma.tDu, b1to.Ued on a t.he.wu. til a tangq ta6te...... .. • .. • . .. . 6. 25 RIBS A!lfJ STUHEP SlfRJMP Tf.ndVL Jl..ib~d two jumbo t.tu.Ue.d Mt!Limp •... II. 95 Pdp 6JL.ied ~tt ·IAlitlt zu.tq tcma..to t.auce, toppe.d ·w.uh mozzcvtdta cltr.ue... .• . . . . . . • • • . 5.75 FROM Tiff S€A 8001 lEV SCIUW tn temott &tt.ttu, mel..U !-n qoUA. moo.th ....... 5. 25 B~OJ LEV SCALLOPS r tndi!A, Atoer.t, ht a dd.iute IU.iltr. IUld bu.t:tC!It ltaaee... • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 8 •. DO BMEV STIJFF'E'V SlfRlf.fl' FoWl jumbo SI!,Wnp wW1 Cll.a.bn~>.a..t .s.tu. 0 6.ilt!J ••• 8.75 cheu~cahe.. • • . • . • • . • . • • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . r .1s V.iA It o 6 J (!e CJI.I!.am : vanata . ... ·-·........... . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 65 Cltoeola.tl!. .. ..................... ~ .. ~.,. • • • • • • ~5 S.tML!JoVIJ!g. • .. • • • • .. • • .. • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • .. • • • 6S SUNDAY, MAY 3,1981- Champagne Brunch 11 a;m.-1 p.m. RESERVATIONS MAY BE MACE BY CALLING (518) 370-6051 At West College Dining Hall: Sunday, May 3, 1981 Family Brunch 10:30.a.m. • 1:30 p.m. BON APPETIT PA·RENn & STUDENTS v· .d p· . ,~ tresl e zzzerla Inc. 1 i Sandwich Pub & Lounge Sup-er Fireside Atmosphere The Area's finest pizza Mouthwatering Sandwiches & Salads Cozy New Lounge Welcome Union College Parents 393-0775 1631 Eastern Parkway ( opp. Price Chopper-) Ia Patisserie will be very happy to fill any order for your Fratemity, DeP..rtment, or for your private party during parents' weekend. OR: Bring your parents down and let them enioy themselves-·in our • • • 1 PASTRY CAFE' Hours, specially for this weekend are: Friday, 8:00 a.m. til. • • Saturday, 8:00 a.m ••• Welcome Parents- •U...O I ~ , .... .:_\ • Sunday •••• Pizza

P~ge H OONOOBD~EN-8-18;- April 30~ 1.981. ...... PARENTS ' WEEKEND ~ BOOKS • Assorted Titles REDUCED for Quick Sale ........... 0 ••••••• STATIONERY 10 kt Gold Filled Cross Pen/Pencil Set Reg. $40 ... NOW $34. 10kt Gold Filled Cross Pen Reg. $20 ........... NOW $17. Chrome Cross Pen/Pencil Set Reg. $18 ...... 0. • • NOW $15. Chrome Cross Pen Reg. $10 ................. : . NOW $8. - Targa 23 kt Gold Fountain Pen Reg. $76.50 . . . . . NOW $65. Targa 23 kt Gold Ball Pen Reg. $39 ............. NOW $33. Targa Silver Cased Fountain Pen ·Reg. $66.50 ..... NOW $56. Targa Matte Black Fountain Pen Reg. $47 ........ NOW $40. Targa Matte Black Rolling Ball Pen Reg. $17 ...... NOW $14. Targa Matte Black Mech. Pencil Reg. $17 ......... NOW $14. Targa Stainless Steel Pen/Pencil Set Reg. $20 ...... NOW $17. Targa Stainless Steel Rolling Ball Pen Reg. $15 ..... NOW $12. Targa Stainless Steel Mech. Pencil Reg. $10 ......... NOW $8. Triumph by Sheaffer Fountain Pen Reg. $7.50 ... NOW $3.99 Excalibur by Pentel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Half Price Insignia Memo Boards Reg. $2.59 ........... NOW 99 cents PRINTS 3 \Views of Union\ (Nott, Chapel, Payne Gate) .. Special $2.50 Nott & Fireworks ........................ Special 99 cents The \Freelance\ Collection of Minatures . . . . . . . . . . Half Price TAPES Pre-Recorded Cassettes •............... ·. $1. off Special Price CRESTED Gl FTS \Nott\ Black Ceramic Mug .................. Special $5.99 \Dutchman\ Cerami.c Mug ................... Special $3.33 Ceramic Cigarette Caddy .................... Special $1.98 Insulated Coffee Mug ....................... Special $2.96 11 0utchman\ Enameled Charm .............. Special 99 cents CASUAL WEAR / Pullover Sweatshirts Reg. $14.95 ............ NOW $10.95 Surgeon's Operating Room Tops Reg. $8.88 ..... NOW $6.66 V-Neck Jersey Reg. $7.77 ...............•.. NOW $5.55 Flannel Lined \Trainer\ Jackets Reg. $18.95 ... NOW $10.95 Corduroy Shorts Reg. $9.95 •................ NOW $5.55 · (Most sizes available in all styles) \ 3 DAYS . j ONLY· GIFTS FOR MOTHER'S DAY GRADUATION FATHER'S DAY Shaving Mug Reg. $5.95 .... o .................. NOW $3.99 \The Razor\- Sol.id Copper (Boxed) Reg. $14 ...... NOW $9.00 Acrylic UC Bottle Opener {Boxed) Reg. $6.95 ...... NOW $4.44 11 Luv Talk\ Ceramic Menagerie Reg. $4.98 ......... NOW $204\9' Small Wooden \Keepsake\ Boxes Reg. $18 ......... NOW $9.50 Large Wooden \Keepsake\ Boxes Reg. $24 ........ NOW $12.00 Acrylic \Initial\ Key Chains Reg. $1.98 ....•.•..... NOW .97 Union's Director Chair ................ Special $44.44 2/$75.00 Union's Federal Chair .............................. $14'5;00 Union's Quartz Desk Clock (Boxed) ............. S.pecial $19.95 Crystal Animals (Assorted Sizes} . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . Half Price Nott Memorial Plate in Wedgewood, fram.ed in Walnut Special $15.00 Chapel Plate in Wedgewood, framed in Walnut .....• Special $15.00 Hand Painted Porcelain Figurines Reg. $8.00 ........ NOW $6.00 Ale & Hearty 13 oz Glass Mugs {Set of 4 Boxed) ..... Special $8.88 Acid Etched Heavy Base Barware (Union Seai/Nott MemoriaL ..•... English Hi-Ball (Set of 8 Boxed} ...................• $18.95 12 oz Hi-Ball (Set of 8 Boxed) ....................• $19.95 Double 0/Fashion 11 oz (Set of 8 Boxed ............ $17.95 Beer Mug (Union Seal Only) ........................ $4.95 Union Tie 3\ wide and lined ......................... $10.00 MISCELLANEOUS Wi ffl e Ba II . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .69 Softballs ....................................... $2.99 Baseballs ................................•...... $2.49 Frisbees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . $1.79 and up Plus Many More Unadvertised S.pecials I CAMPUS STORE in the Nott Memorial Thursday-Saturday · 9 AM · 5 PM Shop Us for the Good Buys ·.···: '·, ··''.· I

Page H OONOORLJll!JNSIS, April 30, 1981 PARENTS WEEKEND .) BOOKS Assorted Titles REDUCED forOuick Sale ....... . STATIONERY 10 kt Gold Filled Cross Pen/Pencil Set Reg. $40. . NOW $34. 10 kt Gold Filled Cross Pen Reg. $20 ........... NOVV$17. Chrome Cross Pen/Pencil Set Reg. $18 .......... NOW$15. Chrome Cross Pen Reg. $10. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . NOW $8. Targa 23 kt Gold Fountain Pen Reg. $76.50 . . . . . NOW $65. Targa 23 kt Gold Ball Pen Reg. $39. . . . . . . . . . . . NOW $33. Targa Silver Cased Fountain Pen Reg. $66.50 ..... NOW $56. Targa Matte Black Fountain Pen Reg. $47 ........ NOW S40. Targa Matte Black Rolling Ball Pen Reg. $17 ...... NO\N$14. Targa Matte Black Mech. Pencil Reg.$17 ......... NOW$14. Targa Stainless Steel Pen/Pencil Set Reg. $20 ...... NOW $17. Targa Stainless Steel Rolling Ball Pen Reg. $15 .... NOWS12. Targa Stainless Steel Mech. Pencil Reg. $10 ........ NOW SB. Triumph by Sheaffer Fountain Pen Reg. $7.50 ... NOW $3.99 Excalibur by Pentel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Half Price Insignia Memo Boards Reg. $2.59 ........... NOW 9!} cents PRINTS 3 \Views of Union\ !Nott, Chapel, Payne Gate) .. Special $2.50 Nott & Fireworks ........................ Special 99 cents The \Freelance\ Collection of Minatures .......... Half Price TAPES Pre-Recorded Cassettes ................ · $1. off Specia I Price CRESTED Gl FTS \Nott\ Black Ceramic Mug .................. Special $5.99 \Dutchman\ Ceramic Mug ................... Special $3.33 Ceramic Cigarette Caddy .................... Special $1.98 Insulated Coffee Mug ....................... Special $2.96 \Dutchman'' Enameled Charm .............. Special 9£J cents CASUAL WEAR Pullover Sweatshirts Reg. $14.95 ............ NOW$10.95 Surgeon's Operating Room Tops Reg. $8.88 ..... NOW $6.66 V-Neck Jersey Reg. $7.77 .................. NOW $5.55 Flannel Lined ~Trainer\ Jackets Reg. $18.95 ... NOW $10.95 Corduroy Shorts Reg. $9.95 ................. NOW $5.55 (Most sizes available in all styles) l0 3 DAYS ONLY· ; .¢ Clllct our oull SIDEWALK ~ BARGAINS GIFTS FOR MOTHER'S DAY GRADUATION FATHER'S DAY Shaving Mug Reg. $5.95 ....................... NOW $3.99 \The Razor\- Solid Copper {Boxed) Reg. $14 ...... NOW $9.00 Acrylic UC Bottle Opener {Boxed) Reg. $6.95 ...... NOW $4.44 \Luv Talk\ Ceramic Menagerie Reg. $4.98 ......... NOW $2.49 Small Wooden \Keepsake\ Boxes Reg. $18 ......... NOW $9.50 Large Wooden \Keepsake\ Boxes Reg. $24 ........ NOW $12.00 Acrylic \Initial\ Key Chains Reg. $1.98 ....•....... NOW .97 Union's Director Chair ................ Special $44.44 2/$75.00 Union's Federal Chair .............................. $14'5.00 Union's Quartz Desk Clock (Boxed) ............. Special $19.95 Crystal Animals {Assorted Sizes) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Half Price Nott Memorial Plate in Wedgewood, framed ir. ·~\/:.inut Special $15.00 Chapel Plate in Wedgewood, framed in Walnut ...... Special $15.00 Hand Painted Porcelain F iyurines Reg. $8.00 ........ NOW $6.00 Ale & Hearty 13 oz Glass Mugs (Set of 4 Boxed) ..... Special $8.88 Acid Etched Heavy Base Barware (Union Seai/Nott Memorial . . . . . . ' English Hi-Ball (Set of 8 Boxed) ...................• S 18.95 \ 12 oz Hi-Ball (Set of 8 Boxed) ..................... $19.95 Double 0/Fashion 11 oz (Set of 8 Boxed ............ S 17.95 Beer Mug (Union Seal Only) ........................ $4.95 Union Tie 3\ wide and lined ......................... $10.00 MISCELLANEOUS Wiffle Ball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .69 Softballs ....................................... $2.99 Baseballs ................................•...... $2.49 Frisbees .................................. $1.79 and up Plus Many More Unadvertised Specials! CAMPUS STORE in the Nott Memorial Thursday-Sat11rday - 9 AM • 5 PM -:;gij};_ ~ Shop Us for the Good Buys j/~~.,~ .tt a: ·u p tl tl rj 1 tl tJ v a .o s d s i1 t (] i1 t i PE .a W: k1 rn It bi A a• 1i Ul tt ·nj ·Vi ·n tE n .. <ll D .il :~ ~~ $ • ·tl l •

1877 .. VoL 110, No. 18 Thursday, Ap-ril 9, 1981 Nott: Safe. and Sound? The N6tt Memorial, designed by E.T. Potter By PAUL GROSSMAN Before spring break, after Union's production of the show, Working, the Nott Memorial Theatre was inspected by the Department of Security and , Safety because it was believed that the theatre was in violation of a number of safety codes. The result of the inspection was a report stating that the Nott Memorial Theatre did not comply with a number of safety regulations. Additionally, because of the violations, use of the Nott would have to be. restricted in a way that would only allow for the theatre to be used as a classroom. Staging a pmduction with the hope of attracting a large Parent's Weekend audience seemed highly unlikely. The Nott Memorial Theatre Publicizing Your Marks By SUSAN CALH()UN (CPS)-The qays (){ private student records may be num- bered, according to avatiety of privacy law experts. _ A number of the experts say that the . immense political pressure now building to get around laws protecting the privacy of student records may succeed despite the opposition of administrators who keep the records, and students them- selves. records made public. Upon objection, the school is prohibited from distributing the information. State laws protecting student records are already under frontal assault in California and Maryland. The California General Assembly is now considering a bill \mandating school's per- mission\ to make student records available to military recruiters. Marie Gerich, aide to state Sen. John Schmitz, who wrote the bill, says the measure was designed to alleviate \problems\ recruiters have in getting information to students about military careers. ''This could set a dangerous precedent of cooperation,'' warns Beth Meador, an ACLU lobbyist in Sacramento. She foresees \a cooperation among government agencies to ex- change information about in- dividuals.\ Across the country, a Maryland couple has· gotten a bill introduced in their state legislature that woul~ allow Continued on page 2 Adminfstrator/Rese~rcher/Doctor/Teacher has had a long history of safety violations. Most of the violations have their origin in the very nature of the building. The N ott was not designed to be a theatre, consequently storage space, work space, and many other characteristics of a theatre , ( ie. special electrical wiring for lighting) had: to be fitted to the unique building. The fact remains, however, that violations did and do exist. Many of these violations have existed for years. Security and Safety have made reports on the condition of the building for at least the past year-and-a-half. The day prior to the opening of the production of Working, Sgt. Chris Chadwick and Fire Marshall Barry Watkins, both .of the Security and Safety Department, conducted an · inspection of the theatre which resulted in many hours of last- minute work in the theatre to make it comply with Security's requirements. Members of the production were un- derstandably agitated that Security decided at the last minute to enforce strictly its safety requirements, instead of at some time earlier in the term. After the production closed, Sgt. Chadwick and Mr. Watkins inspected the theatre once again and submitted a report of violations that were still in existence. Students involved in the theatre were then told that because of the violations, a spring production would not be possible in ·the theatre unless major corrective measures were immediately undertaken. Most of the pressure comes from the Selective Service System (SSS), which has- ex- pressed interest in getting lists of men who have (and have not) compiled with military registration laws. The ss~ swea~s government lawyer Henry Williams, \has no intentions'' of requesting in- formation from schools to help locate draft registration dodgers. But the SSS has long made it known it might ask schools to cooperate with it later on. The SSS' ambiguity has pushed many ad- ministrators to research the legality of such a request, if it's ever made. Malone Speaks at Union Most contend student records are protected by the Buckley Amendment to the Privacy Act of 1974. \The Privacy Act doesn't apply to colleges,\ Williams flatly asserts. \And if ·a college refused us information, it couldn't stand on the Buckley Amendment.\ \Unfortpnately the Buckley Amendment wouldn't be very helpful in this situation,\ agrees privacy expert Trudy Haydn, formerly of the American Civil Liberties Union {ACLU). \If the Selective Service were to be refused by colleges, all Congress needs to do is pass a congressional statute overriding Buckley, and the information will have to be given out.\ The amendment makes \directory information\ on a student-name, address, birth date and place, phone number, and major field of study-public knowledge. The law, )lowever, gives a student the chance to object to having his or her By STEVE AUERBACH This past . Tuesday and Wednesday, Union College had as its guest Dr. Thomas Malone, the Deputy Director for all of the National Institute of Health. Dr. Malone's visit was co- sponsored by the pre-Health Society, the Black and Latin Alliance of Students; and the Biology Club. Dr. Malone was a graduate student at Harvard with several Union College professors. He spent twelve years teaching and doing research at several colleges, and has for fifteen years been with the NIH. He b.as been the U.S. representativeto the World Health Organization; and has been with delegations to Cuba, Japan, and the Peoples Republic of China. In his position at NIH, Dr. Malone is responsible for all their operations: primarily support of the institute's own research groups and the fun- ding of mostly biomedical oriented research throughout the country. Sixty percent of government scientific research support comes through the NIH, a fact which may have in- creased. He may well be the highest ranking Black in the American Civil Service. Dr. Malone's talk reviewed the evolution of the role of government in supporting scientific research. Up through the depression, the only support for scientific research came through private individuals and philanthropy. The names of Rockefeller and John Hopkins · are familiar to all. AifJ:1ough government did support fighting animal disease, and the Department of Agricultme did spectacular work, there was a general lack of interest by government towards people oriented research. This private support waned with the depression, but after World War II a true revolution came about. At first many mainstream organizations, such as the A.M.A. were wary of the perceived danger of government intervention, but soon this revolution became the way of life. Government quickly became the prime supporter of scientific research in the mid 1950's. Through 1960's, the NIH budget increased at an average of 40 per cenr per year! With Vietnam and even more with the Nixon administration, cut backs were made, to the point of negative groups. Particularly affected was research-training. Another turn around carne with the \war of cancer\ which resulted in major increases. But the change in time was evident and called for quick practical results. Dr. Malone stressed the concurrent development of research ethics and policy and the wording of abuses that came with a more centralized system of research support. He does not feel that innovation is stifled by the system, peer review, and so forth, but rather is nurtured, directed, and supported. In light of the current push towards government austerity and catbacks of government ''in- tervention\ and support Dr. , Malone stressed the need to continue support for the basic and applied bioscienees. He feels we have already lost a generatioiL of research con- necting basic advances of knowledge to broad clinical applications and we are in general danger offal1ing behind the rest of the industrialized world. He noted the worldwide problems of the population explosion, lack of food resources, and pollution in all its manisfestations. \We are in the midst of a continuing biological revolution . . . we must not lose momentum-lose the efforts of science to face the awesome human problems we are facing in the increasingly near fature.\ • Union College was graced with the erudition, style, and wit of Dr. Malone. In response to this, Prof. Dan Hobbins, Chairman of the Arts Department, in a memo to Vice- President D'Andrea, cited \unfulfilled promises\ on the part of the Maintenance Department as the reason for .the violations not being corrected. Daro Beninati is the Technical Director of the Nott Memorial Theatre. As of March 31, Mr. Beninati stated that, \Maintenance has not made any move. I suggest that they be urged to undertake the work.\ \The Nott's been neglected. This is only my second year here and I see it clearly. One example is the whole issue of the pigeon problem. (Poison seed is planted on the third floor of the Nott to kill pigeons living up there, however no one is responsible for the removal of the dead birds.) Memos have been ignored. The problem has been known for almost a year. Physical Plant has done nothing. I'm the one that has to go up and clean out the dead pigeons.\ Mr. Beninati, in the interest of accuracy, did mention that a heating system for the costume shop and a fairly efficient alarm system had been installed. These did not, however, rectify any existing safety violations. Mr. Beninati did not fail to stress the neglect of the building on the part of the Maintenance Department. The Security Department submitted a report last year dated April 4, 1980 which cited many of the same violations that were cited in this year's report. Jack Hill, Director of Building Maintenance, responded with a memo dated April22, 1980 which outlined the steps that his department would undertake in response to the violations and recom- mendations reported by the Security Department. Mr. Hill's memo included CE!r'tain steps that had to be taken by the theatre work crew. Mr. Beninati stated that, \We did everything in the memo that we were supposed to do. For example, the lumber .storage area on the second floor has been cleaned out and reorganized. Now they (Security) say that tt has to be enclosed or completely gotten rid of. That's beyond what we can do.\ Th.e last paragraph of Mr. Hill's memo stated, \We all have the same concerns for the safety and security of the Nott Memorial and, working together, we can correct the deficiencies and make im- provements where required.\ Mr. Beninati responded, \That last paragraph has never happened.\ Mr. Hill agreed to be in- terviewed, but seemed unaware that CONCORDIENSIS was familiar with the contents .of his year-old memo. He prefered that the interview not be taped and this request was respected. He agreed to answer all questions. Mr. Hill's first comment was in reference to the recent Security report of Sgt. Chad- wick and Mr. Watkins. He said Continued on page 3

. . . Page 2 OONOORDIENSJB., April 9, 1981 William Moran Eulogized Bill Moran-\an athlete, a scholar, and a well-liked in- dividual\ is what all the newspaper clippings read. While this is so true, it does not do justice to Bill. A newspaper clipping, a tribute, or even a book could not capture the special person Bill was on the inside. Bill had simple, yet very special values in life, values that most would not understand. He was always happy, always had a smile on his face,. and the smallest things would give Bill the most joy. Bill was from a small rw·al cormnunity called Hortonville, New York, that he was ever so proud to call home. Bill was ·very close to his family-there was rarely a weekend when he did not go home. He always wanted to take his friends home to show ·off his family and town, but un- fortunately most of us did not get to Hortonville until just recently. While in Hortonville we all felt like we knew everybody already, as Bill was always. telling stories of his beloved home to us. His family seemed to know us, as Bill had told them many stories about Union. This was the type of pers~n tha,t sm. was, always wantmg to share the good times with all. Bill was a well disciplined person who knew exactly what he wanted. He was always busy, either hunting, playing sports, or working. He always did the things he enjoyed, not wasting any time. His great sense of determination met with .few o~acles, as he was blessed with many natural talents. These are just a few of the qualities Bill gave to Union College, especially Beta Theta Phi. We .have learned much from Bill: how to appreciate all life has to offer, and take nothing for granted... · We never took time to realize itas we should have, but if there • is a message Bill left us, it is to enjoy every minute of every day · as he did. Words will never do justice, but hopefully this Will touch all who knew Bill. He will .be greatly missed, but not forgotten. The Brothers·of • Beta Theta Phi Housing Changes Coming By SUE BLOOMBERG It has recently been con- firmed that major housing changes will occur next fall tenn. These changes will in· elude the placement of Delta Delta Delta in Kappa Alpha's present location, KA in McKean House and the McKean co-op in Bronner House. This decision has been made, according to Dave Wood, \because the college can't afford underutilization of the facilities.'' In order to alleviate overcrowding, and at the same time, provide housing for all three groups involved', this decision was reached in the end of March. ThiS decision was made after administrative investigation of various options available on campus. In the fall, when Tri·Delta considered colonization at Union, one of their main questions concerned housing in the following year. At that time, according to Dave Wood, \There was a wide range of options:, possibly 7 or 8. ' 7 There were a few fraternities, which had problems with mem- bership, finances and leader· ship. It seemed probable to the administration that a few would not be able to get back on the right track. In search for providing more on-campus housing, . the ad· ministration contemplated making major improvements in Hickok House. After having three engineers analyze the situation, it was estimated that $180,000 would have to be put into Hickok House. An ex- penditure of over $300,000 in its summer projects in Davidson and Fox dissuaded the ad- ministration from immediate action in Hickok House. One of the most viable options for change, according to the administration, was KA, presently residing in Davidson. According to Dave Wood, \the movement of KA had been considered long before Tri· Delta came on campus.\ Presently, there are 13 mem· bers living in KA in three suites and a single. Because KA has not had many more than 12 members living in the house for three years, it was felt that the space was being unnecessarily underutilized. Not only did Dave Wood think that the number of house members living in the house is inadequate, but also that the dining area and liring room area were being wasted. In short, the administration feels that their .failure to obtain a contracted minimtun of 26 members in the house, and deceptive promises tbey have made in the past few years to , reach this number is sufficient cause for action. Growing concern ,about KA's membership and financial problems resulted in a meeting in mid-February between the administration and two KA alumni. At this tinie it was reasoned that KA preferred to remain as a small group, not forcing its members to live in the house. Since KA had no desire for expansion, which had been asked for by the administration, Dave Wood emphasized that KA was being given a fair option that would allow them to ·maintain a small house on- campus. The historical im- portance of KA to Union College, according to Dave Wood, was definitely in their . favor in this decision. While the administration feels that KA is using the facilities insufficiently, the KA members differ in opinion greatly. Neal Karen Weissgerber, Steward of McKean House Cabral, President of KA, argued that although only 13 members live in the house this term, 25 people are on the meal- plan and facilities are being used by KA members. who live off-campus and many other students living in Davidson. When KA moved into Davidson in 1967, the contract, according to Neal Cabral, \did not state that 26 members. necessarily had to live in the house, only that .provisions will be available for a minimum of 26.\ KA members feel they are getting the shaft in the ad- ministration's ''campaign against mainstream frater- nities,\ and have been manipulated for the past few years. Continued on page 3 William Moran ~ublic Transcripts? Continued from page 1 parents to see their children's \confidential\ records as well as directory information. Currently, Maryland law and the Buckley Amendment bar disclosure of student tran- scripts to anyone but school authorities, but Beverly and Jerome Kamchi contend the laws violate their rights as parents of a dependent cbild. \Without access to my son's grades, I do not have the option of counseling hiJP.. and en- couraging him,\ Jerome Kamchi says. His son, Mark, has refused to tell his parents his grades since he entered the University of Maryland two years ago. The ACLU's John Roemer doesn't see the Kamchi case as very important, h()wever. He observes the state already allows scholarship sponsors to see grades. \I would suspect they could require release of transcripts to parents under that sam.e idea,'' Roemer says. \But I wouldn't call this an invasion of (students') rights offhand.'' Neither Roemer or John Shaddock of the ACLU's national office know of other legal challenges to privacy laws, but they say that the looming presence of the Selective Service has spread the issue around the country. Student governments in Illinois and Nevada, for example, have passed resolutions asking ad- ministrators not to allow the Selective Service access to student records. Administrators at .places as diverse at Standford and the College of Wooster in Ohio have already announced they would not cooperate with the SSS unless dir~cted by law. Over 300 students at the University of California-santa Barbara recently marched to their administration building, demanding security of direc- tory information. At California- Riverside, a student govern- ment official met with campus officials asking for similar assurances of privacy. Nevertheless, privacy expert Haydn warns students have ''little redress\ if personal information were ~eleased, even over their objections. The Buckley Amendment, she explains, applies only to schools ~ receiving federal funds, and threatens a school with a cutoff of funds if it violates the privacy law. But as a practical matter, she .says, the government would be reluctant to cut a college off from federal funds ''for a rnimrr ' • violation like .that would be.\ To date, she adds, no schools. have been sanctioned in any way~ for violating the privacy laws. California's Palo Alto scho()l district was the first · .in the nation to refuse the military access to student records in July, 1979. The number of schools following Palo Alto's lead prompted Congress to revise a military authoriZation bill last fall to include language \urging\ administrators to cooperate with recruiters. For the moment, Haydn counsels students can only be \vigiliant. A student should make sure his school publishes directory information guidelines, and gives him a chance to register objections. Student Forum Sponsors: Leffer Writin_g Campaign to '\ Congressmen Re: Proposed Federal and State Cuts in Student Aid Tuesday; April 14th in Carnegie Paper and envelopes will be. supplied Postage will be paid. If you feel strongly about the possibility of losing your ajd next year, express those thoughts on Tuesday. ·, ... ' > .0 0 +- 0 f Jack Hi Continued Neal C; fromDea 19, 1981 g moveint< fall of 198 be confir In reg McKean choice, (i option. -A have obj• McKeanl deCision~ problem House ar which caJ Neal Cal McKeanl if a dinin built and proved.\ Other SA By ' The go councis < Council changed. imminen: Anne Ev SAC \ori attitudin; Its presE ratherth communi This : Willard I Susan P Tues. ( A She B Ha' C Enj D Ge: E Fe4 Brin~ T~:.~es

OONOORDIENSIS, A7lriZ 9cJ 1981 Page 3 I Theatre ~~ ' ,· '• '. Dangers ..... v ., 0 ..... co >- \C ~ ~ >- .c 0 - 0 .s:::: 0... \' (' Jack Hiit director of Campus Operations Contmued from page l that he felt that it was worded too strongly and that it wasn't submitted in the form of an impartial, detailed inspection report. Mr. Hill even implied that the report was being used by certain people for their own purposes. He would not elaborate on that point...Mr .. Hill said that what he was looking for in the report was a list of \what had to be done to place the building in a 'safe' con- dition. A number .of things were listed. Some ar-e obv.ious and some are questionable,\ Hill said. When confronted with the contents of his memo of 4-22-80, Mr. Hill agreed to comment on it point by point. The first point Housing Shifts Continued from .page Neal Cabral received a letter from Dean Kellett, dated March 19, 1981 giving KA an option to move into McK~an House in the fall of 1981, which would have to be confirmed by May 1. In regfird to moving into McKean House, KA has little choice, only being given one option. Although KA members have objections to moving into McKean House, they accept the deCision as it stands. The major problem in regard to McKean House are the diring fa'!ilities, which can handle 20 people. As Neal Cabral stated, \Overall McKean House would be alright if a dining room extention was built and the kitchen was im- proved.\ Other problems that KA forsees with McKean House is with the small number <Jf bedrooms, which would allow approximately 10 brothers to live in the house, and the lack of space in the house for parties. Along with this, stated .Cabral, \Over $18;000 put into the chapter house in Davidson since 1967 will be somewhat lost with the move.\ Many of their ad- ditions to the house will have to be ripped down and moved without compensation. The movement of. McKean House co-op into Bronner House is regarded unfavorably by many people involved. According to Neal Cabral, KA is on good terms with McKean House and hopes this change won't a.ffect this. The girls on the McKean co-op are dissatisfied with the changes, feeling that they have fulfilled all their obligations as a house and should not lose McKean House for this reason. As Karen Weisgerber, a McKean co-op member, stated \McKean was never informed about changes that.might occur and would not be happy to move into Bronner, feeling that the house is much nicer than a dorm could ever b \ e. Dave Wood feels that the changes provide adequately for all sides With a place for Tri- Delta, KA and the present McKean co-op. Due to popularity of down-campus housing and a lack of space available, it was felt by the administration that this was the best course of action. SAC Abandons Survey By NAOMI BLANK ' The goal of the alcohol sub- councis of the Student Affairs Council (SAC) has been changed. \The survey is not imminent,'' explained Ms. Ruth Anne Evans, a member of the SAC \originally the survey was attitudinal,\ Ms. Evans added. Its present aim is to inform, rather than question the college cor.nrnurdty. _ This subcouncil, with Dr. Willard Roth, Brian Marks, and Susan Pava as its members, will not set policy. \It is looking to prevent abuse of alcohol or irresponsible drinking from an institutional standpoint,\ Brian stated. The subcoWlCil acts solely as an advisory and in- formative group that offers suggestions. Dr, Roth added that, \the campus should think about the difference between abuse ·and a social activity.\ Dr. Roth went on to explain that \the subcommittee is planning to set up a brochure which will be circulated to freshmen and hopefully to the At the Electric Grinch: 154 Erie Blvd. campusatlarge.\ The brochure is to inform the .campus com- munity as to legal matters and restrictions regarding alcohol sales and consumption. The dangers and toxic limits of alcohol and other drugs will be included as well. Dr. Roth emphasized that \the brochure is not to preach, - but show a helpful concern and understanding/' In addition, general information regarding methods by which students may deal with excessive puse of alcohol will be included. Green no use - Broken Into :::: Q) ., dealt with the safety of the theatre's lighting system, to the effect that it had to be inspected by a theatre lighting specialist. The year's delay irt having this done Mr. Hill attributed to the lack of response on the part of the college insurance company. The second point ~ealt with safety related eqUipment in- cluding additional fire alarms, exit signs and the like. Mr. Hill admitted that the installation ·Of such equipment had been promised by him but not delivered. He did not give a reason . The third point had to do with the problem of housekeeping . This area, (The lwnber rack), was mentioned by Mr. Beninati. Mr. Hill acknowledged the student's efforts and ,added, concerning the recom- mendations, ''one hundred percent has been done by the students.'' The fourth point consisted of a blanket statement by Mr. Hill promising that all electrical problems would be corrected by his maintenance crew. The first of these measures occured nearly a year later when, at the insistence of the Fire Marshall, maintenance electricians repaired the emergency lighting system, immediately prior to the opening of Working. Other points that can be summarized included the pigeon problem which still exists although Mr. Hill reports 346·2280 Tues. Nite is 'Intellectual Development' >- .0 Near the end of March, the o it (the Nott) open, he's going to haye to take responsibility for it. We can't.\ Where such a conflict exists between the contents of a Security Department report and the response of the Main- tenance Department, one thing is important to note: Mr. Hill oversees the operation of the Security and Safety Depart- ment. Cliff Wood, Director of Security, must answer to Mr. Hill. While Mr. Wood may at- tempt to follow-up his depart- ment's reports, when he must challenge Maintenance, he is, in effect, challenging his boss. Such is the case in the Nott Theatre. The students, in this situation, are caught in the middle. The student's best interests were apparently considered carefully by Mr. Hill who summarized the Security And Safety reports on the safety violations and continued use of the Nott Memorial Theatre: \This report can be taken as a recommendation. Whatever has to be done wm be done with this report m mind. This report itself cannot close the Nott Memorial. If the Nott Memorial Theatre is to be closed, it will only be done after a proper review by college ad- ministrators.\ The result of the above statement .insures the continued use of the theatre for both academic and extra-curricular - ColumnA , Column B Union College Greenhouse was :g . broken .into, and several plants a.. were stolen. Dick Luniewski, who operates the greenhouse, discovered the br-eak-in on the morninl! of March 30. Cliff Wood, Chief of Security and Safety A Shoot the Breeze B Have a Social Drink C Enjoy I ive Irish Music D Get Lit E Feel like a Churchmouse ( ) EG ( ) Lake George ( ) GE ( ) The Rat ( ) St. Lukes Rectory Bring in matching test correct and its worth 1 Dra.ft beer T~:.~es. night. 2nd Annual U.M.O.C. April 20 - 28 Two windows ofi the west side of the building were smashed to provide entrance. Luniewski conjectures that the break-in was Su,nday night, because \some leaves were on the ground, and they had only just· started to wilt. It was real hot that day.\ He also suspects 'that the thieves had used a station wagon or pickup truck, because all of the 15 or 20 plants missing were \real big, nothing you could put in your room without someone noticing.\ For this reason, Mr. Luniewski also feels that someone outside the Union commtinity is respon- sible. Luniewski has made the request. . that anyone who has any information concerning the theft call Security at 370-6178 or see him at the greenhouse. that it has just recently been taken care of. Certain safety doors and cabinets have yet to be installed. Recommendations for a heating system and an alarm system were followed through by Maintenance and the systems were installed. Mr. Hill admittedly could not explain why such a long period of time had to pass before anything was done to rectify the existing problems in the Nott. Mr. Hill feels that the problems are hardly insurmountable. \The things that I see that are obvious hazards are things that can be corrected,'' HUl said.. The Security and Safety department is not wholly pleased at the way Mr. Hill is regarding their report. One member of the· Security Department expressed anger. \If he (Mr. Hill) wants to keep purposes. Lenny Kirsch is the student director of the. upcoming Mountebanks production that will be presented on Parent's Weekend. He was obviously pleased at the outcome of the Nott controversy. \I'm very happy with the decision to allow us to use the Nott,\ Kirsch said. \It's nice to believe that the decision that was reached will meet both safety reqUirements and the needs of the students. But the Administration has to decide what will be done with the Nott in the long run. It has been neglected for so long and it finally came down on our heads. The decision to keep the Nott temporarily safe and operating,\ continued Kirsch, \does not mean that we have a long range answer.\

Page 4 ;·~ ·'. ,\~ ··~:. .. ··~·:• \ \ CONa'ORDIENSJS,- April 9, ·1981 ·· features Thesis Tidbits The freedom of fuel-less, foot launched flight· is realized by Brad Fisher.pilot·i.ng. his glider. Hatch Out - Hang Glide By BRAD FISHER Hang gliding has become America's fastest growing sport over the past six or seven years. And, because of its unique physical beauty and high spectator interest, it is heralded as the sport of the eighties. Those who have been involved in its growth since the beginning have seen it transform from an unpredictable high-risk activity to a well controlled, sophisticated sport with a wide appeal over a broad spectrum of active participants. school which usually means reading some literature, seeing a training movie, and then acttial \hands on\ training in a glider simulator. Learning to set up, break down, and run with a glider are also taken up in this part. The next stage in the first lesson is flight training. A student is started at a low height on the hill, and gradually works his or her way up a grassy slope. Altitudes of up to thirty feet are not uncommon for some students on the first day. If you want to try this exciting sport, you are in luck. A beginner's course will be of- fered here at Union, Tuesday~ April 24. Paul Voight, a U.S.H.G.A. certified instructor will be here froni 7-9 p.m. to Satire: give the ground school. Car pools ~ill then be organized to take .students down to the flight school w-hich will be held in Ellenville, N.Y. The course includes personalized in- struction, featuring small classes and all equipment. Smooth, low, slow, and con- trolled flights on a special training hill are included in the flight school. The course is being ta11ght through Aerial Techniques Sky School and will be offered at ·a reduced rate for Union Staff, Faculty, and students. Training will take place in Strauss Lounge. For details, contact Brad Fisher at 393-3134. So hatch out from your everyday routine and hang glide! Michael W. Winger has been awarded a grant from the College's Internal Education Foundation to complete his · senior theses, \A Longitudinal Study: Children's Images of the President through the Election of 1980.\ Winger, a political science major, is a 1976 graduate of Bishop Scully High School, Amsterdam.. His research will focus ·on children's awareness of the recent presidential election campaign and its pot~ntial impact on their image of the President. \Children's basic political orientations frequently carry over in some form into their adult lives, as research by Jennings and Niemi and others has shown,\ Winger says. \As a result, the effect on children on what is in aU likelihood their first presidential election campaign will be relatively important, especially because the President is for most children the primary symbol of the government.\ Winger';; data will be gathered . from questionnaires filled out by Schenectady school children just prior to the election, shortly after the election, and again after the inauguration in January. Children in second through fifth grades participated. Steven Geller, a 1977 graduate of Bronx High School of Science and a senior biology and psychology major, is working on a senior theses entitled, ''A Memory Hypothesis of Acetylcholine Function in Now, I will try to answer some of the questions I am asked from fiiiends and spec- tators. First, a definition is in order; a hang ·glider is a heavier-than-air, foot-launched and wei-ght-shift controlled glider. It is made of high strength aluminim alloy tubing and hardward, and the sail is made of dacron. They weigh around fifty pounds, and anyone can fly them. There are a number of professional women pilots and the holder of all world records is a man in his mid· fifties. New gliders this year run anywhere from $1;000 to $1,800 with a wide range of prices for used kites. ''Dear Mule'' The United States Hang Gliding Association is the governing body in this country which has the responsibility of somehow regulating this very dynamic activity. The U.S.J.G.A. has come up with a proficiency rating program so that there is some standard to what skill level each pilot is flying at. Level I is beginner, II being novice, III being in- termediate, and the highest designated \Advanced.\ Then each takeoff site can be assigned a corresponding skill level requirement. Sand dunes and hills where most of the training takes place are rated I or II. Mountains are to be flown only by Level III or IV pilots. This rating system, which is enforced by area clubs, is responsible for the dramatic reduction in accidents in the past few years. The fact that almost all pilots wear specially designed \quick deployment parachutes\ has also drastically cut the number of injuries and deaths. Safety consciousness is now the nature of the sport. · Besides the advancement of equipment, the present-day teaching methods are both safe and successful. The days of building your· own glider, and flying off the nearest cliff are gone. Most people now learn to fly through certified schools and instructors who have been specially trained. Learning to hang glide takes place in two stages. The first is ground EyROBERTBREWSTER DEAR MULE: Me and the rest of the guys in the frat are really sorry to hear that you are on a two-term vacation. Look at it this way, it'llgive you the chance to make enough bucks to pay off your $1 ,200 house bill and still be able to go drinking with us on nonm party nights. · Speaking of parties, you missed a great one up at .Lamda Sigma Delta last Friday. All the brothers' girlfriends went down too, if you know what I mean! With all those \Japs\ strutting around, I felt like Hugh Hef- ner's personal assistant. Before the party, we went up to the hockey game. We filled up section 10, al1100 seats. We lost the game 7 to 1 but we sure kicked their butts in the third period brawl. One guy got four teeth knocked out and I'll bet there was a pint of blood from blue line to blue line. Everybody cheered when Rocky got a game misconduct 'cause it was definitely worth it. That's when the football players from . Tau Upsilon Frau went down to pick a fight with the STCC fans but those \rowdies\ chickened out. Anyway, as we were on our way to LSD we saw the bros. from J eta Eata Wu going to their intramural hoop game. They looked like clones except for the nicknames on the back of their jerseys and the numbers on their yamachas. Then we bumped into the pledges of Mu Eata Nu on their way to the idol. They were all wearing dresses, • make-up, wigs and clogs. The brothers were making them paint it - PINK! I'll tell ya, those guys at MEN really know how to treat their pukes. By the time we got to the party it was so crowded we couldn't move. I always have the best time when I feel like I'm in a jumbo sardine can. I could have been dehydrated by the timeT got to the bar. I don't think I ever would have got there if I hadn't been behind the guy bringing in the 12th keg of the night. People were really getting . down to the disco in the dining room. It was so dark that we couldn't see the nerds dancing except for their white socks and digit calculator-alarm-grocery list wrist watches.. When someone finally turned on the lights, the red glow really sparkled ()n the Skiddies' gold jeweli'y and sequinned Qutfits. Dave G. said it was like being at Lorenzo~s on amateur night. It was like a minute later that the sisters fr()rn Kappa Alfa Faw started a beer fight with those Japs. It lasted about·50 seconds and ever~body got drenched. We slipped out the side door and· watched itthrough the window. It was a great WT contest! Do you remember the other Dave G. no not Moose's roommate, the one who was the Treasurer of the Financial Committee on Finance and Spending as a Freshman. Well, he came back this term. He went ~on a term abroad to Greece last fall and decided to stay over there and go to Israel. He said his ambition was to ' work in a co-op for a term. Anyway, he had to get married while he was over there. I guess life on a co-op is more exciting than I thought it was. The independents in Nixon House were having a Taco and Tequila party. We couldn't belieye that people were still there, but then again it started late for them cause nobody would go out and bring the Taco sauce - 8:00 o'clock! From what the guys in the Frat next door said, the party didn't get rolling tillO:OO p.m. cause the rodents were aU up in their rooms nerding out anyway. The Tacos weren't too bad - they would have been better if there was sauce to put on 'em though. All the guys wanted to do shots of Tequila but they didn't have any shot glasses. It's a good thing that guy from Frat Sportswear told us about all the neat things we could do with our· · personalized bartending kit. You got one, didn't you; I thought everyone did. You remember, it came with a 24 oz. · shaker-pourer with our Gu Continued on page 11 464 State St. we deliver Mammalian Brains.'' Geller's research concerns the effect of the drug acetylcholine on memory in rats. Acetylchol:ine is a chemical that normally exists in all manunalian brains and it is hypothesized that increased or decreased levels of' acetylcholine wotlld effect memory. Shelley Eckstein, a 1977 graduate of Oceanside High School and a senior psychology major at Union College, is working on a senior theses entitled \Altruism and the Effects of Mood a,nd Gender.\ Eckstein's research concerns examining the role that a person's gender and mood st~te have on that person eliciting a helping response. Eckstein's thesis advisors are Rudy Nydegger, associate professor of psychology, and Jack Lipton, assistant professor of psychology .. ----'-' ·-· -- Brian P. Sorrentino, a 1976 graduate of New:burgh Free Academy and a senior biology major is working on a senior theses entitled \The Ultrastructure of Doublet Paramecia.\ Sorrentino's research con· cerns the determination of the cellular ultrastructure of axenically grown doublet paramecia. This research is focussed on transmission electron micrographs of these single-cell animals. Recent results suggest that a newly found microtubular system is present in these animals. Beth Allison Dorogusker, a 1977 graduate of Roslyn High Sch9ool and a senior psychology major at Union College is working on a senor theses en- titled \The Effects of Practice on the Levels of Word Iden- tification.\ Dorogusker received a grant from the Internal Education Foundation to do research' in cognitive psychology on at· tention focusing. She is styudying the effects of training on the different levels of word processing. She is currently conducting an e)t]leriment to determine which levels of word identification are automatic and are effected by practice. Michele Beaulieu, a student at Union College, has been awarded a grant from the College's Internal Education Foundation to complete her senior ' theses, \A Phenomenological Study on Varying Methods of Child- birth.\ Beaulieu , a 1977 graduate of Burnt Hills-Ballston Lake High School, is a philosophy- psychology major at. Union. Beaulieu's study is an at- tempt toward clarification and understanding of various bir· thing experiences. By discussing the variations of the pr e g nan c y ex p e r i en c e characterized by different birthing methods, she hopes to Continued B~ page 11 Schenectady 374-1888 The Alpha locatio to Me appear more i admini reason could plicati~ imp en minist effort 1 the stt Let': histor~ nities aroun( Kappa which, locate1 Scienc builcfu along nities' andto1 the pr move< consti mitor~ Backt with t' asked at leas as a Neal.( \The you c< But nc arounc keep finds havin~ fiftee11 been 1 LatE began the l claimc fewm space memb peoplE enroTh KAm separ; societ: have Kaha room. Kellet nounc be m: Sprin! KA 1 David 81, vol Alph~ -Ci The Clubi servic with.] have camp projec perfo heigll munit other: club r acqu~ Our recog twelv theN Gonv Than] work prepa the cl Total their honor recei prese

OONOORDIENSIS, April 9~ 1981 Page 5 . -' - ' feature Kappa Alpha Evicted· ·BY DAVE KAPLAN The decision to move Kappa Alpha society from its present location in Davidson dormitory to McKean holise next fall appears to be considerably more i:n:v(}lved than the College administration purports. The reasons behind the decision could have cwnpus-wide im· plications as the housing crunch impends, and the ad· ministration ·intensifies· its effort to modify the lifestyle of the student community. Let's start with a little history. In the 1960's. frater· nities were in their heyday around the country and at Union Kappa Alpha was in a house which, if still erect, would be located on the front lawn of the Science and Engineering building. In 1967, the house, along with a few other frater- nities' houses, were condemned and torn down to make room for the proposed S&E center. KA moved into the newly- constructed Davidson dor- mitory, where it has been since. Back then, KA signed a contract with the College, after having asked the school \to guarantee at least 26 spots (for KA to have as a society),\ according to Neal Cabral, President of KA. \The school said,, 'Okay, .but you can't have more than 52.' But now, that's gotten switched around.'' Instead of trying to keep below a maximum, KA finds itself in the position of having to achieve. a level which, fifteen years ago, would have been easily attainable~ Late this fall, Kappa Alpha began to receive letters from the Housing office which claimed that the society had too few rnemberli, and was utilizing space improperly~ With 22 members, KA has only 12 people living on campus. As its enrollment declined, however, KA moved the fire door which separates the dorm from the society so that Davidson would have more rooms. Presently, Ka has three suites and a single room. Last term, Robert H. Kellett, Dean of Students, an- nounced that a decision would be made the second week of Spring term as to whether or not KA would be moved from Davidson (Concordiensis, 3-5- 81, vol. 110, no. 17). When Kappa Alpha's members returned from spring break, a letter awaited them informing them that they would be moved to McKean house, at this time an aU-female cooperative, next fall. There . are. s~veral. con- troversial aspects to\'\ihi's decision, concerning both its result and speculation as to how it was attained. The fact is that Union is going to find it$elf in a tremendous housing bind in a very few years. If current projections are correct, Union could be 50~0 male-female by neJQ; year. The logic behind eliminating one of the two aU- female co-ops on campus, . designed for women who cannot afford to pay for meal-plan meals or to cook for themselves, becomes debatable. Fur- thermore, the facilities in McKean are less than adequate for a society of 22 men. Size of living space will be .con- siderably less, and the kitchen £acUities, which amount to little more than a household cooking area, as opposed to what KA will leave behind, twG ovens, six Jmrners, and a griddle. Also, by mc;~ving out the 12 residents of KA and replacing them with the. 40 proposed sorority sisters of Tri•Delta, the fire door will, once again, have to be moved, and even more of a squeeze will be ,placed on freshman housing. Viewed in this context, the argument that Kappa Alpha should be moved Q,ecause it is improperly utilizing its allocated space seems rather bizarre. Kappa Alpha is not the only fraternity whose future appears bleak. However, the beginning of its headaches can_ be traced to the hiring, about two years ago, of Robert Kellett as the Dean of Students. Up to that point, recalls former KA President Robert Smalley, ''we could have parties and everything like that, and nobody said that fraternities or societies were really respon- sible for anything-just keeping their noses clean. Kellett came in, and he decided that all of a sudden it had to he like Jerry's kids ... and 24-hour basketball marathons.\ Fraternities suddenly had to fulfill the role conceived by the new Dean and become 'socially beneficial' organizations. Unable to con- tend with the fundraising efforts of other houses because of its size, KA came l.mder criticism, at first implicit, later more overt, for not f:ulfilling what Smalley fe.els the ad~ ministration sees as \some sort of unwritten contract as to what we're supposed to do, and this isn't .specified to us Wltil we haven't done something that they want us to do. You know, we are not Fiji, but we're supposed to be Fiji.'' As Kellett settled, life for fraternities in general and Kappa Alpha · specifically became increli.§ingly difficult. KA held a party that provoked complaints from neighborhood residents, resulting in a fine from the College of $150. \Then we had continued complaints for the littlest things,\ Tom Siragusa, KA'.s Treasurer, continues, \and then we had a big party with a band and we got fined another $200 for that party.\ After that party, proceedings for social probation for Kappa Alpha were initiated. Compared with other fraternities and societies, some of whicfl wreak havoc and vandalize college campuses, KA can best be labeled as in- nocuous. One rarely hears of a KA member being involved in a fight in the 'Skellar, or breaking into other fraternities, or rip- ping off· a door to a bathroom 'stall. \We've never even painted the Idol!\ Jack Taylor, Vice-President of KA, wails plaintively. Nevertheless, the society found itself under fire at its hearing more for what it had not done than for what it had. \What came up during the review,\ Robert Smalley recounts, \was how many fundraisers we had had and what kind of contributions we made to the' campus.\ KA was being implicated for not having done things that tlrey had no obligation to do. Kappa Alpha, according to Siragusa, was within two votes of winning an apology from the College, \because they made certain claims, and we justified everything we did.\ Unfor· tunately for KA, Joe Zolner, Director of Student Develop- ment, subsequently made a speech censoring the society for actions that weren't conducive to . campus life, followed by Dean Kellett's \mainstream fraternity\ speech, in which Circle K Receives Award By IRA DWORKIN· The Union Colleg.e Circle K Club is a school and community service organization affiliated with Kiwanis International.· We have worked closely with the campus administration on past projects, while others have been performed in an effort to heighten campus and com- munity awareness,- and still others were club socials to help club members to become better acquainted. Our accomplishments were recognized last weekend when twelve club members attended the New York District Circle K Convention in Binghamton. Thanks to a great deal of hard work and last minute preparation by these members, the club was presented with the Total Achievement Award in their division - the highest honor a Circle K elub may receive. The award was presented at a ceremony during the farewell luncheon. The award was presented to this club in recognition of superior achievements during the year. These include' the coordination of the Arthritis Foundation Hike-Bike, the formation of a new club at Schenectady County Community College, and the salvation of students through \starvation kits\ which were distributed to many freshmen during finals week of fall term. The second award-- Distinguished President--was presented to forDner president Sean Seibert. Sean spent many hours in preparing meetings and coordinating many pojects. He did a superb job in in- creasing the membership of the club, and much of its success may be attributed to Sean's hard work. The efforts and dedication of past officers Peter Frank (vice-president), Lori Branagh (treasurer), and Anne Palumbo (secretal'y), also played an integral part in the success of this year's club. Circle K also received the Membership Award presented to the club in New York State exhibiting -the greatest increase in mem· bership during the past year. Union, with over a 300 percent increase in membership, won the award. Finally, the club also won an award for ·attendance at the convention. Thirty percent of our club wenUo and enjoyed the convention. · The convention also marked the beginning of the n~w club administration. The new of- ficers are: Ira Dworkin (president), Peter Frank (vice- president), Rachel Cohen (treasurer), and Allyson Ramsey (secretary). The next year promises to be atJeast as rewarding as the last year has been, and all are encouraged to join. Meetings are · still held every Wednesday evening at 6:30 in Fox Lounge. \he said he wouldn't tolerate any fraternities that weren't 'Inainstream.\' It is indeed ironic to label KA as an outside- of-the-'mainstream' society, notes Jack Taylor, since KA is the oldest Greek organization in the country, and KA members wrote Union's alma mater and donated Jackson's Garden to the school. Why, then, for the past two years, has · Kappa Alpha been in hot water, as one member describes the situation? Perhaps it goes deeper than the mere disciplining of a marginally unruly society. The . most striking aspect of the Kappa Alpha issue is the insensitivity and lack of contact with the interested parties by the administration. The women in McKean were told that they might be moved only after KA was told; residents of Smith house and SDT, the other candidates for displacement according to a KA member, were never informed. Even . more remarkable is the attitude that Dean Kellett has adopted toward KA, since he has never met with the members of the society at the house. Robert Smalley and former KA President Steve Buchanan relate an incident exemplifying this attitude. While KA was trying to increase members, its members told a student returning from a leave of alr sence that he could move in. His father called up both Dave Wood, Director of Residence Life, and Dean Kellett, .and was told, according to the student, that his son should not move in because it was not up to academic standar¢:;. Smalley maintains that at that time, the campus average was about 2-7- 2.8, but KA's was 3.2-3.4. At another time, Kellett said to a KA member, \People tell me that you have a bunch of 'space cadets' living over there.\ Since he had never visited the premises, this appears to· be quite a rash if not groWldless statement. On another oc- casion, following an initiation party, during which alumni had done some things which the studentscouldl}'t have stopped..- \what can you do with them (alumni): lock them in a closet?-a KA member met with Kellett, at which time the Dean warned him, \Where there's smoke,. there's fire.\ That is, if the KA alumni\ were 'hell- raisers,' present KA members must be alike. What lies behind these un- founded attacks by the Dean of Students on the oldest Greek society on campus? Some members muse that it might be the start of a sweeping effort to rid Union of all fraternities. \After all,\ remarks Desmond Cahill, \if you do get rid of Kappa Alpha, a landmark, then all the rest become easy.\ Add this to the report by one of the members that, during the period at Dartmouth College when the Trustees tried to ban fraternities, Dean Kellett put in the· mailbox of \the President here . . . an article about alcoholism and Dartmouth banning fraternities, and a little note was affixed ... : 'I ~thought you might be interested in looking at something like this.\' Whether or not Dean Kellett's ultimate goal is the elimination of all fraternities ·can be little more than conjecture at this time, but a consistent trend of limiting students' recreational freedoms since his arrival cannot be ignored. A prime example is the \suggestion\ that Tuesday - night drink specials be suspended. Robert Smalley sums up the conflict between the administration and the students best when he noted simply, \The moral standards of those who are much older than us and those who are our age are quite different.\ The return of the Generation Gap? Perhaps, or maybe it never left. The feeling of Kappa Alpha and many students is that the opinions of a few people of another generation and frame of mind are being imposed on the entire student community. The intensity of the r.eaction to .. this control could be substantial if the pressure on the students is prolonged. Spring Shape Up By JUDI LEE CHERVENAK Although winter term's pressures are finally over, too many of us may now be realizing its effects on our derrieres, waistlines, etc. However, it is not yet time to despair. There is still hope to once again (or finally) attain a svelte figure. And what better time than now? The weather is not yet temperate enough to have us bare our shoulders and thighs, but this time is soon J approaching. We must tran- , scend our ravenous nature and apply ourselves to the problem at hand - shedding Wlwanted poundage. This task is not as difficult as people think - if it is - done sensibly. It is possible to lose several pounds in a week - without hunger, diet pills, diuretics, etc. This must be done sensibly, however. If not, 5 pounds lost this week will be found again next week - too often with company. Although this may sound idealistic, it is, in fact, realistic. It is possible to lose weight painlessly, whether one is on a meal plan, cooking, or eating out. Before grabbing a c~ke, nibbling on a cookie or cracker, or having an ice cream cone, think about how you will look in a bathing suit. If you must snack, snack sensibly. Keep bags of scrubbed carrots, cauliflower, mushrooms, peppers, tomatoes, asparagus (be inventive, cook it in a hotpot), cucumbers, etc. in your refrigerator. Those will ap- pease your appetite and provide something crunchy to munch on (an entire pound of asparagus contains 66 calories; a half cup of Haagen-Daz ice cream has 363 calories). If you want to munch on something more substantial, try a heaping cup of puffed corn (found at Earthly Delights on Jay Street), or puffed wheat or rice). When tossed with Sugar Twin, those taste great and have only 50 calories (divide the box up into individual servings and store in zip-loc bags to avoid overeating. Be creative! There are in- . numerable ways to diet painlessly. More suggestions will be offered next week. Any ideas or questions or suggestions for next week would be appreciated. Mail them to Box No. 1311, c-o Judi Cher- venak; names may be withheld.

£: \- .2 c./) c: 0 Page 6 OfJN(:)ORJJIENS1S,· April· 9~ 1981- ~rts & --Cui ture Women's Collage Theatre: Sirens The Women's Network welc()mes the Women's Collage Theatre's performance of the play Sirens on Tuesday, Aprill4 at 8:00 PM in Social Sciences 016 as a main event in Women's Week 1981. The play Sirens is compiled and adapted from the writing, of acclaimed authors, Penelope Mortimer, Sylvia Plath, Robin Morgan and Virginia Woolf and :from lively improvisational material developed by the critically acclaimed Women's Collage Theatre of New York City. Says San Diego reviewer Carol Rowell, \Sirens is a major feminist event that you must not miss when it comes to your city.\ and all women's change in . consciousness- over the cen- turies. Colorful batiked costumes and set, imposing life- sized puppets, and the powerful acting of actresses Barbara Annsdatter arid Gail Bederman, bring the characters who parade through Anna's mind to- life: through Anna they are all one and she is all of them. national conference of the NaUonal Woman's Studies Association, educators from all over the country gave Sirens a standing ovation. Robin Morgan, femini.st activist, essayist, poet, and contributing editor to Ms Magazine wrote, ''It is interesting how the sheer weight of the quotations has a rh,yt~hmtc,_ almost hypnotic effect after a while . . . Sirens is a ·complex and compassionate work, highly inventive, funny, and the puppets are first rate.\ .... - Through the voices of divergent women, past and Founded in 1976, Women's Collage Theatre is a group .of six theatre artists dedicated to reaching a vyide variety of people. With Sirens they ha:ve succeeded, traveling to Women's Centers, Y.W.C.A.'s, colleges, aad local art groups in California, Florida, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Maryland, Michigan, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Nevada, North Carolina, North Dakota, _Virginia, Washington, D.C., and Manitoba, Capada. At ·a recent The Women's Network invites all members of the campus comrtuutity to attend the per- formance of Sirens on April 14. Tickets are $2.00 per per person and may be purchased from any of the three sororities, the Network, or at the door. For further information, call 377- 207a. ttl ..c: V1 ::>- .c 0 ..... 0 if The·wornen's Collage Theatre presents the play Sirens ... present, renowned and. forgotten, Sirens tells the story of one woman's change in consciousness over a lifetime TRUST Elvis Costello ~syBOB~()X: syncronized as a good Swiss watch. On TRUST the band is Another- batch of Elvis both hard driving and soothing; Costello songs has been a funny mix, but it works. released by Columbia Records. Sometimes I feel like all Elvis Fourteen of tbenl this time, on Costello songs sound alike. The an album titlEd TRUST. sound grows on you though, in a TRUST is d.if.ferent from positive way. At times the lyrics other Costello alb11rr1s ..• as far are hard to understand. as the cover is concerned. The Costello's voice blends with the music holds few swprises. The band so as to be a vital in- E-Man has followed a well strument itself. Even when the defined pathmthe rntL.Sic world. words are indistinguishable, the TRUST is not a de-viation from voice is pleasing to hear. After a that path, htit rather a con- few listenings, the words find melody-next line style is not his. His cleverness in combining words and music is outstanding. I d()n't think TRUST is up to par witi:I MY AIM IS TRUE or ARMED FORCES, but a few more listenings may change my mind. A couple songs caught my attention quickly: \You'll Never be a Man'' and \Strict Time.\ If all else fails, this albmn is great music for a party. I can't see all else failing. ... on Aprill4, at 8:00p.m. Sponsored by the Women's Network Mountebanks in Action tinuation along i.t. The path is a their way out, and often get long one, not in tlle sense that it stuck in one~s head for days. has been a long 'hard ride for This is largely because of the Elvis, but in the sense that he emphasis placed· on the lyrics has succeededin :leaving a long by the way they are set to path behind hi:J:n. Since 1977, music. He is imaginitive: a Mo11ntebank.s, Union's Columbia has released six LP' s simple melody-one line, repeat student theater group, is re- from Elvis in the1tJnitEd States. .,. ... ..., __________ ...,____ established a11d ready to en- The records ch.e~racteristically tertain. On this coming Parents' are loaded witl:l s4JngS: (GET Da Spring is sprung Weekend Mountebanks will be HAPPY hasmenty songs on it). Da grass is riz presenting a musical comedy Elvis Costello' ~1:1nusic has one I wonder where dem boidies is? dually titled as \Noah is a qnality whicll appeals to many:· Righteous Man .(And a Damned it sounds gi\eat loud. This is Da little boids is on da wing. Good (;arpenter Too) or Noah's largely becai1Se 'Elvis builds his Ain't dat absoid, Nott.\ The show is a talent sound on a stur.-dy f()undation; Da little wings is on da boid! showcase around which a story his band is alwe~ys great. The has been built. The director of band encompasses a wide range ...;Ogden Nash this nmsica·l is sophomore of sounds, all of which are as _ .. • Lenny Kirsch. Lenny, with ,-.----------------------...· Andy Levine and Daro Beninati, came up with the general idea Delta Phi S11itcase Party for the show. Seth Mertdelowitz is in the process of working with them to write the show, and Eric Ruben is working on writing original songs. In the show will be 25 students with various singing, dancing, and acting talents, plus a band led by Paul Sabotino, and all of the choreography will be done by Felicia Salvacion and Glenn Krutoff. It is hoped that as the musical is rehearsed all of those involved in it, as well as Technical Director Alan Gin- sburg, Stage Designer Sue Rubman, Stage Manager Allyson Ramsey and the rest of the Production Staff, will come up with new ideas and suggestions for the show. The goal of Mountebanks is that this show be a huge collaboration of ideas, theater talent, and much work. The show starts off with a modern-day Noah entering his ark for the first day of God's flood. Then through a com- bination of funny and serious scenes the relationship between animal and animal or, more significantly, between man and man is depicted, as the days on the ark wear on. The people and animals aboard the ark portray real-life feelings of tension, loneliness, boredom, love, and hatred in the fictitious world in which they've all been placed. Perhaps the most exciting aspect of this production is the tremendous talent that is in- volved. The show will be presented as part of the festivities of Parents' Weekend. Deha PhLannounces its 4th annual S1Jitcmse Party, May 8th, from n :00 p .. m. - 4:00 a.m. This Summer, CorneH to IJ~ held at the Girling Center Prizes given/ dancing, drinking, etc. First prize is an exp~nse paid weekend for you and yourdateinsunny Bermuda. Tickets are $13and can be pt:Jrctlased from Mrs. Ma_rra in Student ActivBies. Beer is free; Donation Bar Do, It! It's Great! What better place to be than . far above Cayuga's waters as you improve your writing skills. work with computers. participate in a linguistics institute. or take a course in conceptual drawing? Nowhere else can you learn in the company of so diverse a group of faculty and students in such a uniquely attractive setting of hills. lakes, gorges. and waterfalls. At Cornell. you can fulfill requirements. ac~ celerate your degree program. or simply take advantage of the opportunity to study those intriguing subjects that you've always put off. Requ~st an Announcement and see for yourself all the reasons why Cbrnelf is the place you should be this summer. Tuition is $12 5 per credit or less. Cornell University Summer Session. B 1 3 Ives Hall. Ithaca. New York 14850 c: 1- Cll .... If) c: 0 .... 10 .s::. If) >- .0 0 .... 0 .s::. '0.. J My) is to Colleg was a there l hour 1 mid-dl and·· provo I blowi1 curtat drawn see sli beenv thatcl class~ Noma and sl watch game inninJ pointn lusty, screat verge witne~ \West happy worsh the wJ some1 Some wrong wasn' Somec music breez forth. outra1 How . Im whoe~ Moza1 mym of sor 'there canp' and t this V I In Pari~ mem and·~ the I\ wher lege1 who atroc stanc cour; hum• feet1 Resi: witz few1 Fe Cath fa thE tore sopr: pian: Club a c< man Resi cont1 whe enou Af take audi: orch the Mah gift Bid cam plex the gass havE play abO\ Ger pas~ incl1 the:

'. ' CONOOBDIEN8l8, Apri·Z 9, 11)81 Page 7 • ~rts & Culture , Mozart Hits the Beach COLLEGE POETRY REVIEW The NATIONAL POETRY PRESS ·By D. PONTJSAKOS My preliminary appeal today is to the residents of West Cellege Dormitory: Tuesday was a gorgeous spring day, and there I sat - suffering in a two· hour afternoon class with the mid-day sun peekingJhrough - and ·that sweet, memory· provoking, spring breeze gently blowing -· those winter!sh curtains that the professor had drawn closed so that we could see slides! It might as well have been winter term! Ab, but when that class was over ... when the cl~s was over 1 flung my nylon Nomad knapsack on my back and strolled across campus to watch Union lose a softball game - by. one run - in extra innings. ,What a disap- pointment: all of that good, lusty, gutsy, q_bnoxious screaming - in VAIN! On the verge of tears I turned 'round to witness spring in progress on \West Beach\: frisbee players, happy, healthy joggers, sun worshippers, hashish eaters . - the whole bit - except ~ exeept something was wrong. Something was dreadfully wrong: The background music wasn't 92 FLY! It was Mozart. Someone was blaring classical music into the sweet spring breeze! ! ! My tears sprang forth. How incongrous! How outrageous! How anarchistic! How . . . how weird. I mean, I don't kpow about whoever. it was who decided on Mozart, but I enjoy throwing my mid-day frisbee to the tune of some good pop music. Or is 'there \good\ pop music? Or can pop music only get so good and then become cliche? Was , this yv est dweller avoiding the cliche when he decided on classical music? (or had he been eating hashish?) Or had he taken the - pardon me ... cliche point of view that pop music lias no place in an academic en- vironment such as Union College? If indeed the ·latter is true, a quick chat with someone like Music Profes_sor Michael Dellario may · change our 1risbee player's rnind instantly - and pennanently. Dellario who has played and written for various rock groups including one that he is presently involved with on camp~s, and who has won various awards f.or his original compo$-tions, asserts that yes, indeed there is a place ·for the creation of and the performance of pop music in an academic environment where classical and neo·classical music tend to be regarded as the be-ali and the end-all in the world of \valid\ music. Talking to Dellario, one gets the feeling .that he is not just talking about today's pop music - he is talking about the potential this mediwn has. He is talk~g about what can be created, produced and communiCated w:ithin the realm of pop music. Pop music excites Dellario - you can see sparks fly from his eyes as he proudly points out . that (American pop music) is \irrestible!' across the country and around the world. It is ·what people ~11 over are really listening to today - what they are relating to and therefore it must have some validity. Pop music seems to have the at- tention of the masses today. People are thriving on it, dancing to it, throwing frisbees to it, even. Unfortunately, it seems that a lot 9f today 1 s ar- tists - having achieved a cer- tain amount of success ...;. tend to slack off in creativity, settling for cliches that sell albums and concert tickets, instead of ex- ploring new pathways in music and in lyric that would freshly stimulate their public. Well, maybe, if there were more people like Michael Dellario around, that is, if there were more capable musicians and lyricists who recognized the potential impact of pop music, it would work its way into academia and perhaps get a good college education -· academically and socially..: and come out wen-rounded, more presentable, and more ac- ceptable as a valid form .of music. After all, if Mozart insists on invading West Beach, then it is only fair that he dedicate some of his class time to people like Jackson Browne and the B·52s! unnounces The closmg dale tor the submission of manuscripts 'by College Students is MAYht ANY STUDENT attending either junior or senior college Is eligible to submit h1s verse. 'There 1s no·limitation as to form or theme. Shorter worits are· pre- lerr~>d t1ecause of space limitations Each· poem must be TYPED or PRINTED on a separate sheet, and must bear t~e NAME and HOME ADDRESS of-the student, and the COLLEGE ADDRESS as well. MANUSCRIPTS should be sent to the OFFICE OF THE PRESS. NATIONAL POETRY PRESS BoK 218 Agoura, Ce. 91301 JAMES TAYLOR co.ncert t-shirts LAST CHANCE o~ sale in Carnegie $3.00 or call 370-6499 Fania Fenelon: Playing for Time Sigma Delta Tau would like io thank these sponsors for their cooperation with our Ska't~ ·a-than: B,y MANDY PHILLIPS In 19.43, Fania Fenelon was a Paris Cabaret singer, a secret member of the Resistance . . . and a Jew. She was captured by the Nazis and sent to Auschwitz where she became one of tli.e legendary \orchestra girls\ • who used music to survive the atrocities of the Holocaust. She stands 4 ft. 11 in., but her courage, spirit and sense of humor make her seem over ten feet tall. She fought hard for the Resistance, harder in Ausch- witz and was one of the lucky few to survive to tell the story. Fenelon was born to a Catholic mother- and a Jewis:tJ. father, each equally indifferent to religion. In 1940, as a trained soprano and a prize-winning pianist, she sang at Melody's Club in Montmartre which was a cabaret reserved for Ger- mans. Fenelon worked with the Resistance, photographing the contents of theN azi's briefcases when they became · drunk enough. After being captured and taken to Auschwitz, she auditioned for a 46 all-women orchestra which was then under the direction · of Gustav Mahler's niece. Her musical gift meant survival. A.t Birkenau, the eJCtermination camp of the Auschwitz com· plex, she knew that if she failed the audition, she would be gassed. If accepted, she would have the dreadful honor of playing 'lor those who were about 'to be gassed and for the German officers. Fenelon passed. Some of her audiences included Heinrich Rimmler and the infamous experimenter, Dr. Joseph Mengele. The orchestra worked hard. Their lives depended on lt. After 11 months, they were disbanded and the women were sent to another extermination camp. At 3:00 p.m. on April 15, 1945, the members were due to be shot. At 11:00 a.m. that same morning, the British liberated the camp. Fanya Fenelon weighed 62 lbs. and was weak from typhus. Yet, she still had the spirit that had kept her alive and sang a rendition of \La Marseilles.'' Despite bad health, Fenelon is active, Charlie· Goldstock's vivacious and strong. She speaks English, German, Russian and French fluently. She is still frightened. In 1977, she told Herald Tribune reported that \what 1 saw in 1938, I still see in France, England and every corner of Germany.'' Many of you will already knowtheabove story. Fenelon's fight is over. Het book, Playing for Time, a memoir of that survival, was produced on television with Vanessa Redgrave as Fenelon. It was a stirring, poignant and con- • • • troversial production. Now Union students and faculty have the opportunity to meet the real heroine; Fenelon herseU. The Union College Speaker's Forum and JSQ-Hillel are extremely proud to present Fania Fenelon on Monday, April 13, in Memorial Chapel at 8:00 p.m. Admission will be $1.00 for those with ID, and $1.50 for the public. For those who are interested in going to the reception, there is a list which starts today in Student Activities. The first 25 to sign up will receive in- vitations to the reception. Burger King Domino's Pizza Dunkin Doughnuts Pizza Hut The Nut Factory Schatz Stationery T-Shirt Express Friendly's Ritz Restaurant Ground Round Fireside Pizzeria Gershon's Delicatessen Ingrid's Restaurant T & L's The Metro Cafe The Hub Abner Doubleday's Mohawk Drive-In Northway Mall Cinema See us for the best ·deal in town! 1142 STA'fE ST., SCHENECTADY PHONE 374 ... 9285 OPEN 9 - 9 MO'N. - SAT. NEX:J\ TO DUNKIN' DONUTS There is plenty of parking at the door.

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, April 9, 1981 £ditorials Editorial: Working Together \The 'Vital measure oj a newspaper is not in its size but its spirit··that is, .its responsibility to report the news fully, accurately and fairly.\ --Arthur Hays Sulzberger Chairman of the Board The New York Times May 9, 1956 Concord iensis was .founded in 1877, making it one of the oldest coHege newspapers in the country. It has undergone ,many changes throughout the years. In spite of the editorial changes, shifts in school policy and fluctuations in campus climate, the service provided by the newspaper has been constant. Con· cordiensis has the responsibility to serve the needs of the campuscornmunity to the best of its abHity. The editorial policy formulated for Concordiensis for the next two terms is not revolutionary. It upholds the tenet that a newspaper's purpose is to serve its readership; by reporting with clarity and providing a forum for opinions. We maintain that the new editorship and editorial policy will be able to improve the quality of the reporting and therefore create a newspaper that everyone can be proud of .. We intend to accomplish this by alt~rtng the image and approach of the newspaper, and pushing it in a direction that we feel would better serve the entire campus community. Concordiensis is one of the most important organizations at Union because it serves the entire campus. As such it depends on the input and contributions of the very people which it serves. We know that there are enough dedicated and talented students on campus to insure that the newspaper is printed every Thursday. This is not the problem. The problem arises when the paper is put together, written and edited by the same group of people week after week. This type of situation can lead to the distribution of a very narrow and one-sided publication. We do not want this to happen. Therefore, we are asking for the cooperation of the entire student body. If you do not want to write, please give us your ideas. If you know of an activ.ity of interest, please inform us. If you have a complaint, or compliment, talk to us. We are here to serve you. In addition to asking for support from the student body, we would also like to solicit articles and opinions from the \non-student\ components of the campus. The faculty, staff and administration of the school are a valuable source of information that has been relatively untapped in the past. The interaction between the students and campus members should be extended. We would like for Concordiensis to be an important vehicle for increasing intracampus communication. To facilitate the dissemination of pieces of in- formation of particular interest, a new format for the campus section has been devised. Room will be set aside each week specifically for personals, a weekly schedule of events obtained from the Student Ac- tivities office, Greek Society notices and other items of general nature. In addition to reporting events on campus that affect the college community, we would also like to start printing opinions, commentaries and articles that deal witll naticmal and international events. Since these events affect our lives, it is important for Concordiensis to take note of them. We are aware of the fact that a newspaper has the potential to generate a lot of_ opinions and ideas. It also has the potential to be very powerful. We would like to make the \power of the press\ available to all who will contribute in a responsible manner. As a gesture to dernonstrate our belief that the newspaper is not the personal mouthpiece of a few individuals, we are returning to the policy of having all editorials approved by a majority of the editorial board. In this way, we feel that the editorial position of Con· cordiensis will be shaped by the views and ex- periences of a relatively large group of campus members as opposed to just a few. After the cold and dreary days of winter, Union comes to life for the spring. There will be many ac- tivities and issues to report. We will try to present these items in a clear, unbiased and interesting manner. With the help of the talented staff we now have. and the contributions of many of you, we believe that we can achieve our goal of producing the best paper this campus has seen since the inception of ~ Ooncordiensis 104 years agn. Letters :· :,· .. ,:'. I • ) callousness. and tactlessness- of this factual note. Not once did he express sympathy Gr con .. dolence to Bill's friends and relatives.. Most students ··· Si!OOnly, Joseph A. Naill . discarded this flyer as U- \¥~ , , written ·m a manner qmttf .mditor's~i'klte,_,.._,,, ,,, .... ~.~ .. · ·~·· similar to a letter announcing a club meeting. The flag flying at half mast was indeed a token of respect and sympatby. A. J~tt~ e~­ pressing sympathy from the faculty and administratitln would have been appreciated. However, ·handouts to every student eokny stating bis death was) in our opinion, ina~t· propriate. - • 'l\be recent death of another Union student was handled WelL William Moran,s· -death, Ui\ .. fortunately, was not. · We stand at fault. While Wfl' can't promise that it will never happen again, we can· pt'tlmise that we'll try uu:r beat~ Meet us ha1f-'''way~<e€an.tan!;:wl)tttt\'of>. tbe··, teedit0rs dir~tly and we t•k · out SOOle form of coverage. ~el~i,n' the-Hunt Dear Editors: ...... ·, ,. . -. Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editors Arts & Cultures Editors Campus Page Editors PaulGrossman, Rachel I. Mandel - Julie Isgro Donna Creeley Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Dan Booth, Jucii Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Sports Editors ·Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Business Editor Subscriptions CartMnist Staff Photo Staff Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner Jeff Scardino EllenBerger Lisa Snyder Chris Phelan, Dan Rosenfield, Dan Ryan, Cindy Tenner Kent Avery, A.J. D'Angelo Richard A. Sher CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publicati()ns, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 5B3·7151. Entered in . the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter .. Subscription . rate: 3_5 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere m· the ,United States. Concordiensis subscribes to the College Press Service ( CP~). .:: . olllyn~~Stht mone1·tq i1 were ,~,- E ortes_(mon woultl ;hS tow~i~9~ equip~wt you·wtw d ide ·· ei: ste pe pro bee Gne ela~isl therei$SO caresabQt money is~ stolen goo! kn(lW (nc wll6''Pt•·+W spealw:s.- (or care) them., t.lre get them anyone ou some ttl- the wh~' speakers, genern~@ ext. 60llJ~c~ we can.re1 Thank y. ··C~ ·:v'l Th< • WI To We war ideas anc 1!}81 Seni( a Seniot member durmg tt Pleaseml a brief

Page 8 Editorials Editorial: Working Together ·'The vital measure of a newspaper is not in its size but its spirit··that is, its responsibility to report the news fully, accurately and fairly.\ ·-Arthur Hays Sulzberger Chairman of the Board The New York Times May9, 1956 Concordiensis was founded in 1877, making it one of the oldest college newspapers in the country. It has undergone many changes throughout the years. In spite of the editorial changes, shifts in school policy and fluctuations in campus climate, the service provided by the newspaper has been constant. Con· cordiensis has the responsibility to serve the needs of the campus community to the best of its ability. The editorial policy formulated for Concordiensis for the next two terms is not revolutionary. It upholds the tenet that a newspaper's purpose is to serve its readership, by reporting with clarity and providing a forum for opinions. We maintain that the new editorship and editorial policy will be able to improve the quality of the reporting and therefore create a newspaper that everyone can be proud of. We intend to accomplish this by altering the image and approach of the newspaper, and pushing it in a direction that we feel would better serve the entire campus community. Concordiensis is one of the most important organizations at Union because it serves the entire campus. As such it depends on the input and contributions of the very people which it serves. We know that there are enough dedicated and talented students on campus to insure that the newspaper is printed every Thursday. This is not the problem. The problem arises when the paper is put together, written and edited by the same group of people week after week. This type of situation can lead to the distribution of a very narrow and one-sided publication. We do not want this to happen. Therefore, we are asking for the cooperation of the entire student body. If you do not want to write, please give us your ideas. If you know of an activity of interest, please inform us. If you have a complaint, or compliment, talk to us. We are here to serve you. In addition to asking for support from the student body, we would also like to solicit articles and opinions from the \non-student\ components of the campus. The faculty, staff and administration of the school are a valuable source of information that has been relatively untapped in the past. The interaction between the students and campus members should be extended. We would like for Concordiensis to be an important vehicle for increasing intracampus communication. To facilitate the dissemination of pieces of in- formation of particular interest, a new format for the campus section has been devised. Room will be set aside each week specifically for personals, a weekly schedule of events obtained from the Student Ac- tivities office, Greek Society notices and other items of general nature. In addition to reporting events on campus that affect the college community, we would also like to start printing opinions, commentaries and articles that deal with national and international events. Since these events affect our lives, it is important for Concordiensis to take note of them. We are aware of the fact that a newspaper has the potential to generate a lot of opinions and ideas. It also has the potential to be very powerful. We would like to make the \power of the press\ available to all who will contribute in a responsible manner. As a gesture to demonstrate our belief that the newspaper is not the personal mouthpiece of a few individuals, we are returning to the policy of having all editorials approved by a majority of the editorial board. In this way, we feel that the editorial position of Con· cordiensis will be shaped by the views and ex- periences of a relatively large group of campus members as opposed to just a few. After the cold and dreary days of winter, Union comes to life for the spring. There will be many ac- tivities and issues to report. We will try to present these items in a clear, unbiased and interesting manner. With the help of the talented staff we now have. and the contributions of many of you, we believe that we can achieve our goal of producing the best paper this campus has seen since the inception of Concordiensis 104 years ago. CONCORDIENSIS, April 9, 1981 Letters 0 .. plQlOilS D'Andrea Criticized To the Editors.: As students at Union College, we were disappointed with one of Vice President D'Andrea's recent actions as·~ leader of our school. We each received a form letter announcing the death ()f William Moran. We were ap- palled by the insensitivity; callousness, and tactlessness of this factual note. Not once did he express sympathy or con- dolence to Bill's friends and relatives. Most students discarded this flyer as it was written in a manner quite similar to a letter announcing a club meeting. The flag flying at half mast was indeed a token of respect and sympathy. A letter ex-- pressing sympathy from the faculty and administration would have been appredated. However, handouts to every student coldly stating his death was} in our opinion, inap- propriate. 1 The recent death of another Union student was handled wcll. William Morants· -death, un- fortunately, was not. Sincerely, Roslyn L. Hodes, 1984 Heidi Horak, 1984 Jill E Sorkin, 1983 UJE Not in the News To the Editors: Letters Corinth H.S. yesterday morning (March 11). Next term will find the Ensemble of Jazz on tour a. gain, with sbt , e!_lgagei.Jlent-s being planned (including- . .Jhe usual Spring Concert ;. and Parents• Weekend gig, both on campus). r hope that} for these latter two · performances at least, the Concordy will be represented somewhere in the audience,. and that these en· deavors on the part of Union students will · be deemed newsworthy. Editor's Note - Sincerely, Joseph A. Nalli We stand at fault. While we can't promise that it will never happen again, we can promise that we 1 ll try our best. Meet us half way. Contact one of the appropriate editors directly and we will work out some form of coverage. > Help- in the Hunt Dear Editors: HELP! I am involved in a scavenger hunt. One of the items that I have to find is . . . Lyrics of \Ballad of a Young Man\ as sung by Helen Ram- sey. I have written to the Library of Congress, copyright divisi(ln, over 50 record finders on both coasts, several radio stations and numerous magazines and unions connected with the music world. No success. Perhaps one of yoUl\ readers has heard of the song and-or the artist and wnuld write to me at the address below. A prompt response would be appreciated as there is a deadline involved. Thank you. ;JUZU2$ ' cernlng romanticism in dating have been extremely in- tettesting -so much so that I am iJ\spired to share with your rJaijership some of my own ideas which have led to many an enjoyable and ·memorable evening with a special lady. To start, you might call the woman or leav.e a note under her d()or - something along the lines of: \Shall we meet for drinks at ten? Call me\; or uMy roommate is gone for the weekend. Stop byn; or the ever* popular ''Your butt at my place at 9. Be there.\ . Clean up your room or apartment}. as women are often turned off by sticky beer stains and v,as el in e-smeared pill(lwcases. Arrange y(.mr ropes and pulleys so as to be unobstrusiveyet functional} and put on some musk. A tape composed of Aerosmith's \Big Ten Inch Rec()rd/' the Who's \'Squee~e Box,\ Ot:lad :Boys' \Caught with the Meat in Your Mouth,\ and ()thel' seh.lc~d tunes sh(luld put her in a . receptive mood. No article on the Union Jazz Ensemble concert of February 27 appeared in last term's Concordiensis {3-5--81). The 21 members of the band, Union College students, put a great deal of time and energy into the preparation for that event, and it was well worth it in the end. There was a large crowd on hand for the performance, and judging from the applause, it was thoroughly enjoyed. When your date arrives, yoa should greet her fully clothed, or at least in a tasteful robe, so . as not to spoil the surprise. Have her pour drinks, then suggest she ''turn down the stereo a bit 1 ' while you slip a little greaser in ber drink. Quaaludes or phenobarbital are excellent, b11t grain alcohol or PCP will d{j well in a pinch. When .she has loos~ned up a little, delicately break tlre ice with a light peck l)n the cheek or a brisk slap across the m.ollth. and then m~ke yoUl\ move. As so()n as she .is writhing in ec~ stacy, you should strip d(rwn to your l~athers and begin to atM tach or insert the various paraphernalia you have ~ollected for this evening. · (These iterns :may be obtained at Adult Wol'ld on Eriej3lvd.~ or at any fraternity.) Remember, if she screams 'no, t she really . means 'yes.~ A favorite game Qf Sincerely, mine is tn drip bubbling hot Mignon Diane Lauber honey Gn her twitching ab- 12{) West First Street ·domen, which can be lick~d or Juneau, Alaska 99801 scraped ()ff upun cooling. In addition to the concert in Memorial Chapel, the UJE has been on the road these last few . weeks, playing at Skidmore the evening of March 3 and at Depending on your date's Dating Details endurance, sooner or later she will pass out from pleasur'e and Dear Editors: emaustion. Detach her from her bindings, remove any non- D. Boothts articles con ...... disposable items, pen up any l-..---------------------'\1. stray animals~ and dump her. Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editors Arts & Cultures Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Business Editor Subscriptions Cartoonist Staff Photo Staff Paul Grossman, Rachel I. Mandel Julie Isgro Donna Creeley Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Dan Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Maria Manfredonia, • Charis Richards Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner Jeff Scardino Ellen Berger Lisa Snyder Chris Phelan, Dan Rosenfield, Dan Ryan, Cindy Tenner Kent Avery, A.J. D'Angelo Richard A. Sher CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College,. Carnegie Hall, Schene~tad~, New York 12308; Publications Off1ce: Susquehanna PublicatiOns, Inc., ~1 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563*7151~ Ente~e~ m the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Concordiensis subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS). and her belongings off at her • dormt holl).e, t>r high school. For that fmal touch of romantic flair, send ll~r a single red rose · with a eard that recads, .;something like ' 1 1 dreamt of yo\t tMt. ttglit 11 <~r ~'Yuu tetiiitld me. <of. wild llickory nuts;!! As f0r wllat to do on the next: . date,· l wnuldn't. W()Vf ...... I've. · .l:lever had. one. M':8ybe D.:Booth' can help yon out with that one. ~Nathan W. Keever, '79 • S,peakers are Stolen To Whom It May Concem: Thank you very much for takit\g tl!e 2 column. speakers· (SCWS5 13(lg'f.ln)\fr(ltn .SSOUi last Mundayt Marcll30~ It certainly :must have taken ~areful planning and stcength to . pry themofftbe walls, wire andall! It only took tim:e, effort and money last sununer to get the av equipment . ilnprt\Jvements approved f()r~016 so we could • pro\Videtbe CoU Conmlu~ty i with a be.tt{:)r . . d system toit : :movies mil leCtur-es, and it ·wUi ~~·~ltld;:~I#!PII~ .1! .... ' only cost· ·money to: can eithf:l ·were takj ones (mor would h1 towards o equiprnen .you who< idea to re1 steal) the personal proudwitl because I one else ill there isS( cares abo money is stolen go() know (n< where vo speakers. (or care) them, the get them anyone at some inte the whe speakers generous1 ext. 6098 ~ we can rE Thank l Althoug friend no late Wi] saddened death. In . of our cu tragedy r all, simp possible t by it. Mr. friends Vi for the in noticed e· not know I was in uponther mutual fr I, and, as shocked · unfortum channele< the callc: tastelessr of Acad€ D'Andrea this tragE ' WI Tc Wewa1 ideas an 1981 Seni' .a Senio member during tl Please rn a brief

OONOORDIEN'SIS, April 9~ 1981 Page 9 OpiQiOIJS Student Tax Committee Announces · Important Meeting with All Student Activity leaders Thursday, April 9, 4-5:00 p.m. in Conference Room A' To Discuss the Budgeting Process for Next Year. Attention All Seniors Letters D. Booth Women Want . Whole Week- Jane Engel XarenPaul· Sue McGovtlrn· Anna Raten ·Weisg•~rbi le.tters Pol icy CONCORD lENS IS will publish all letters representing a responsible viewpoint regardless of editorial opinion .. We will not publish letters containing slanderous statements, obscene or malicious statements. While names may be withheld by request. we will not publish anonymous letters. The Letters To The Editor section is the area of the paper open for the expression of any campus opini<m. We will at- tempt each week, given the . limitations of space, to print as many, if not all, letters sub- mitted by the deadline. The deadline for a Thursday· publication is 7: 00 pm. on the . Tuesday nigh-t prior. Letters should be typed, and can be slid under the do()r of the CON~ CORDIENSIS office in Car-. negie. The Editors Editorials Wonten's Week 1981 -April 12- 18- Sunday, AprU12 L \Kick Off Brunch''-Pub-11:00-1 :00-$1.00 per person -Open .to entire eampus coiiUllunity --Hosting Union and Cornell Women's Glee Clubs -Slideshow: ''Women at Union 1981\ 2. Women's 'Glee Club Concert-Memorial Chapel...;7: 30 p.m.-$2.50 per student (Free with Union I.D.) -\King David\ by Honegger -Narrator: Betty Allen ~union and Cornell Combined Women's Glee Clubs Monday, April 13 1. \Women in Media Symposium\-\Killing Us Softly\-7:30 p.m., Strauss Lounge -Professor Britain of the Psychology Department to lead discussion afterwards . -Visual Presentation by Network members Tuesday, Aprill4 1. \Sirens\-Play presented by The Women's College Theatre of New York City-SS016, 8:00 p.m.-$2.00 general admission -Development of one woman's change in consciousness over a lifetime and aU women's changes in consciousness over the cen- turies 2. \Women's Night.atthe Pub \-10:00 p.m. to closing -D.J. Sue Stern, featuring music by female artists -.;Special drink \The Suffragette\ and popcorn offered Wednesday. April15 1. \Women's Lunch\-Banquet Room-12:00 to 1:30 ~For all female faculty. staff and students -Buy yow lWlch in the Pub and take it into the Banquet Rm. -Coffee, Tea, and Dessert provided -slideshow: \Women at Union 1981\ shown 2. Tillie Olsen-''The Woman Writer\ -Workshop: 3:~0 p.m., MllSic Room (Library) -Reading: 8:00 p.m., Lower Hale House LoWlge -presented by the English Department and Women's Network Thursday, April 16 1. Career Panel-\Women Work and a New Lifestyle\-Strauss 7:30p.m. -Moderator Jane Wood -Area professional women in informal discussion of their own experiences in their personal and professional lives -Wine and Cheese served 2. \Women's Cabaret\-Cabaret Room, 9:00 and 11:00 shows -MC Polly Wheeler -1st Act-Karen Weisgerber -2nd Act-Rachel Gertzog and Amy Edwards . Friday, April17 1. Friday Lunch and Discussion in the Women's Network Room- 12:30 -Topic: \Sexuality\ as presented in Our Bodies, Our Selves -Discussion Leaders: Jane Wood and Susan Lascar {Nurse Pract.) 2. Social and Cocktail Party-strauss Lounge, 4:30 p.m. -Special presentation by Network Saturday, April 18 1. All Campus Party-Old Chapel, 10:00 to ? -Dance to DJ-played music -Free admission, Beer, Soda ALSO 1. Selling Women's Week T-shirts throughout the Week for $5.00 2. Book Sale throughout the Week featuring: Family of Women, Our Bodies, Our Selves, Women and Madness, The Women's Room~ Sisterhood Is Powerful, Against Our Will: Men, Women and Rape~ A Room of One's Own, Second Sex, My Mother, My Self, Tell Me A Riddle. 3. See also first issue of the Network's newspaper released this week. . We want you to give us your possible day and night events tdeas and suggestions for the and-or talk t() the committee 1981 Senior Fling. There will be member abo\lt your concerns, a Senior Fling Committee questions or NEW IDEAS. membet· outside Carnegie Remember that the success of during the week of. April 13. the 1981 Senior Fling depends on Please make an effort to fill out your' enthusiasm and your· a brief survey regarding response! Spring term at Union: Wher-e will you be?.

OONCORDIENSIS, April 9, 1981 Page 9 Letters ~Letters only cost the College additional ·money to rent speakers imtil we can eith~r recover those that ·were taken or purchase new ones (money, I might add, that would have otherwise gone towards other. badly needed av equipment). I hope that those of .you who decided it was a good idea to remove (or should I say steal) these speakers for your personal use are happy and proud with your \achievement\ because 1 can assure you that no one else is, and I certamly hope there is someone out there who cares about where their tuition money is going (e.g. to replace stolen goods) and who will let us know (no questions asked) where we might find the speakers. We don't even need (or care) to know who took them, the important thing Is to get them back. So, if there is anyone out there who still has some integrity and who knows the whereabouts of these speakers, it would be a generous gesture for you to call ext. 6098 and let us know whet·e we can retrieve them. Thank you. Diane Winkler. Projection Facilities mailed to the college com- munity. It is the callousness and the thoughtlessness reflected by a mass-mailing which is par· ticularly galling. One may walk into the mail room on any given day and be exposed to mass- mailings lying unread on the floor. In general this does not affect anyone. ·But to see a death notice strewn across the floor, also unread, or worse, unnoticed, mu,st be particularly painful to Mr. Moran}s friends. In a sense they must have felt that his name was being literally walked upon, a fact · which could have been avoided by D()t having a mass-mailing. The- letter itself was as tasteless in content as was the manner of its delivery. It was nothing more than a news blurb, which bordered on the sine of gossip. There was mme of the polite platitudes, which, although they are only platitudes, society has made use of for years for the purpose of assuaging pain and grief .. There was no ''It is with deepest regrets that we report . . . ,. or ·~sympathies may be extended to ... '' wbich society demands. Moreover, since this is a small enmmunity, word of mouth had that a man of Dr. DtAndrea's standing should make this inadvertant mistake, one of true social in:esponsibility. D. Booth Women Want Whole Week To the editor: Son of a bitch-those women are at it again. Calling attention to themselves for an entire week. What the hell for? What do they think they are- different? PeGple have to put up with them for 365 days a year- and now they want an entire week. t(} themselves. Just goes to. show you; give them a day and they1l take a week-give them a week and who knows? What is this· .. women's art; women's rnusict women's literature, women's careers, women's RELATIONSHIPS. Exhibitionists I tell you-what could they possibly have w tell us? Women's Week '81. Callous and_ Thoughtless already carried the vital details Jane Engel to those who were friends and · Karen Paul acquaintances of Mr. Moran. s M G Thus this letter seemed aimed ue c overn · AnnaCorti at satisfying the idle curiosity of Karen Weisgerber Although I was neither a friend nor acquaintance of the late William Moran, I was saddened to hear of his tragic death. In a community the sue of our college comwunity any- tragedy must be keenly felt by all, simply because it is im- possible to avoid being touched by it. Mr. Moran knew, and was friends with, too many people for the inddent to pass by un~ noticed even by those who did not know him. the rest nf the campus com· r-;:==========~ munity. I was informed of the accident upon the night of my return by a mutual friend of Mr. Moran and I, and, as r stated before. I was shocked and saddened. It is · unfortunate that this grief was channeled into a numb rage at the callousness, and indeed, tastelessness, of Vice President of Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea~s \announcement\ of this tragedy, which was masg.. The object ·Of Vice President D'Andrea's letter was obviously to communicate to the college- eommunity why the flag was at . half-mast throughout the week, One cannot fault hiS motive~ . only the manner in which it was • carried out. Items such as this, which are deeply personal, should be accorded respect.· When a_ student passes away. the newspaper prints an article, written and arranged by the friends and relatives of the deceased for the benefit .of the college community. Friends and acquaintances are in· formed in a private manner: likewise, announcements of wake and-or funeral are private, as well they should be. The walls of grief should not be needlessly knocked against. It is surprising and regrettable Student Tax Committee Announces Important Meeting with All Student Activity Leaders Thursday, April 9, 4·5:00 p.m. in Conference Room A· To Discuss the Budgeting Process for Next Year. Attention All Seniors Letters Policy CONCOROIENSIS will publish all letters representing a responsible viewpoint regardless of editorial opinion. We will not publish letters containing slanderous statements, obscene or malicious statements. While names may be withheld by request, we will not publish anonymous letters. The Letters To The Editor section is the area of the paper open for the expression of any campus opinion. We will at- tempt each week, given the limitations of space, to print as many, if not all, letters sub- mitted by the deadline. The deadline for a Thursday publication is 7 :00 pm. on the Tuesday night prior. Letters should be typed, and can be slid under the door of the CON· CORDIENSIS office in Car- negie. The Editors Editorials W otnen 's Week -April 12- 18- Sunday, April12 1981 1. \Kick Off Brunch\-Pub--11:00-1:00-$1.00 per person -Open to entire campus community -Hosting Union and Cornell Women's Glee Clubs -Slideshow: \Women at Union 1981\ 2. Women's Glee Club Concert-Memorial Chapel-7: 30 p.m.-$2.50 per student (Free with Union I. D. l -\King David\ by Honegger -Narrator: Betty Allen -Union and Cornell Combined Women's Glee Clubs Monday, April13 1. \Women in Media Symposium\-\Killing Us Softly\-7:30 p.m., Strauss Lounge -Professor Britain of the Psychology Department to lead discussion afterwards -Visual Presentation by Network members Tuesday, April14 1. \Sirens\-Play presented by The Women's College Theatre of New York City-SS016, 8:00 p.m.-$2.00 general admission -Development of one woman's change in consciousness over a lifetime and all women's changes in consciousness over the cen- turies 2. \Women's Night at the Pub\-10:00 p.m. to closing -D.J. Sue Stern, featuring music by female artists -Special drink \The Suffragette\ and popcorn offered Wednesday, April 15 1. \Women's Lunch\-Banquet Room-12:00 to 1:30 -For all female faculty, staff and students -Buy your lunch in the Pub and take it into the Banquet Rm. -Coffee, Tea, and Dessert provided -Slideshow: \Women at Union 1981\ shown 2. Tillie Olsen-\The Woman Writer\ -Workshop: 3:30p.m., Music Room (Library) -Reading: 8:00 p.m., Lower Hale House Lounge -presented by the English Department and Women's Network Thursday, Aprill6 1. Career Panel-\Women Work and a New Lifestyle\-strauss 7:30p.m. -Moderator Jane Wood -Area professional women in informal discussion of their own experiences in their personal and professional lives -Wine and Cheese served 2. ··women's Cabaret\-Cabaret Room, 9:00 and 11:00 shows -MC Polly Wheeler -1st Act-Karen Weisgerber -2nd Act-Rachel Gertzog and Amy Edwards Friday, Aprill7 1. Friday Lunch and Discussion in the Women's Network Room- 12:30 -Topic: \Sexuality\ as presented in Our Bodies, Our Selves -Discussion Leaders: Jane Wood and Susan Lascar (Nurse Pract.) 2. Social and Cocktail Party-strauss Lounge, 4:30p.m. -Special presentation by Network Saturday, April18 1. All Campus Party-Old Chapel, 10:00 to ? -Dance to DJ-played music -Free admission, Beer, Soda ALSO 1. Selling Women's Week T-Shirts throughout the Week for $5.00 2. Book Sale throughout the Week featuring: Family of Women, Our Bodies, Our Selves, Women and Madness, The Women's Room, Sisterhood Is Powerful, Against Our Will: Men, W4Jmen and Rape, A Room of One's Own, Second Sex, My Mother, My Self, Tell Me A Riddle. 3. See also first issue of the Network's newspaper released this week. . We want you to give us your Ideas and suggestions for the 1981 Senior Fling. There will be a Senior Fling Committee member outside Carnegie during the week of April 13. Please make an effort to fill out a brief survey regarding possible day and night events and-or talk to the committee member about your concerns, questions or NEW IDEAS. Remember that the success of the 1981 Senior Fling depends on your enthusiasm and your response! Spring term at Union: Where will you be?

Page 10 OONOOR.JJIENSLS~ April 9} 1981 Commentary: Violence, Guns and Society By DANIEL ROSENFIELD Writing about violent crime has always been a good subject 'for the writer who needs something to submit to his editor ten minutes ago. American .society being what it is, one can always count on an article with lots of \blood and guts\ to keep the reader's in• terest (this cGnstitutes a good article in the eyes of the editor). The recent attempted assasination of the President of the United States has once again brought to the forefront of public concern the issue of handguns. The issue is whether or not handguns should be allowed in the hands of private citizens. Theoretically, if there wer.e no guns there would be no crimes. Even non-history majors should be aware of the fact that crime came before the gun. Possibly this is true. However, there is no way of knowing for sure because the fact is that there are .guns in the society, and it is useless to talk about what might be if, . . . If the problem of violence is to be solved then what must be dealt with is not what might be, but what is. According · to the National Rifle Association, there are approximately 100 million handguns of all types in the hands of American citizens as of 1980. These guns are used for hunting, competitive shooting, defense and as collectors items. They are also used in crimes. It has been agreed by authorities that it would be .virtually im- possible to confiscate all of these guns. Many of the gun owners would not be willing to hand over their guns. The en- suing black market would not help to convince them to do so as well. The gun, a simple mechanical device, is easy to make. There are currently books on the market on how to do so. Of course, like narcotics, grins would continue to be imported into the country, the only dif· ference being that the im- , porters would not have to pay import duties. Thus, if a practical solution is the ultimate goal, .confiscation of handguns would not be the answer. Limiting future sales would also be ineffective. There are already guns in the handS of the public. At best, the only result would be that the crime rate would not increase dramatically over what it currently is. (This is assuming of course, that there is a direct correlation between the number of guns in circulation and violent crime.) Naturally, stopping gun sales would have the same minimal effect. There would stili be t~ same number of guns in this society that there were before their sale was stopped. The perceptive reader, (who is still probably looking for blood and guts), may at this point begin to wonder what it is that can he done to remedy this situation- if anything. In considering the answers, one must consider those who commit the crimes. These people can be classed in one of two general groups; the habitual law breakers and the habitual law abiders. The first group is, of course, the criminal who breaks the law on a regular basis for profit or fun. The second group consists of people who do not make their living or get their entertainment by breaking the law. The criminals will, by definition, have in their possession and use a gun, regardless of the raws .. If gpr:.s 'were confiscated, criminals wouid steal them or would purchase them illegally. What then would deter these people from using a gun? Obviously if the supply of guns cannot be stopped, controlling the use of guns is the only other choice. This means that strict penalties for the use of a gun should be mandated and en- forced. If the penalty is severe enough, many criminals might consider their actions carefully before using a gun. Law abiding citizens would, as a ~oup, ·respond better- to .~rict law::: controlling the u..,e of .guns. These people would not want to place themselves in a position of possibly breaking the law by possessing a gun. This is true :even now; many people when asked by the salesman of the gun store whether \)r not they would be willing to kill someone, admit that'they would not. When these people learn that in an actual combat, or self-defense situation there is no such thing as wounding, only killing, they reconsider buying a gun at all. Naturally there are, the hard core types who, · regardless of the law, are going to use ~gun. Tiiere is no perfect answer. Gun control will not solve aU of the problems but will do more to stop the sales of guns to law abiding citizens. So far I have gone on the assumption that guns and crime are directly related. Guns themselves are not the real problem, they are the scapegoat. A rom is no more than .a tool; it does only what its user wants it to do. I have never seen a gun get up and shoot sol!\eone all by itself. Tlie real problem is violence ia society. If there exists within a person the intent to commit a violent crime then he will find someway to do it. Only if the violent intent is removed or somehow contained will the rate of violent crime begin to drop. An exception to this generalization is the recent assassination attempt of President Reagan. Gun control probably would not help to prevent the pre .. meditated assassination of a man who is so visible in society. It is not somet~ing that a law abiding citizen would contemplate. If guns were not available, an individual bent on assassination would filld some other means to achieve his goal. The President is the one person in the United States who will always be a potential target for assassins because of the nature of his position. That is why there is in existance an elaborate security system to protect the President. However, as was seen March 30, 1981, J.H. Hinkley Jr. managed to penetrate that security system and take a shot at President Reagan. Only if the violent impulse of such individuals can be controlled can the problem of violent crime be resolv~d. Unclassified (CPS)-A classified ad in the . student newspaper at · the University of Pittsburgh has led to the disciplining of three Pitt students charged with \in- timidating'' a fourth student with the ad. The Campus Judicial Board (CBJ) found the three students guilty of \intimidating\ a female student by placing an ad in the Pitt News and displaying campus posters all bearing the initials \SLMF\ and the Roman numerals MCCXXII. The numberals translate to 1227, the dorm room number of a woman with initials ap- parently similar to SLMF. Neither the CBJ nor the police would release the name of the • female student, who com- plained she was particularly frightened when someone placed a circled copy of the classified ad under her dorm door. \She didn't know who was doing it,\ says Caroline Uebenguth of the CBJ, which put the three students on housing probation through the end of 1981. The students are appealing the verdict. But \through a whole series of events, it became clear what the words meant,\ the board determined. They a.mounted to \plain harassment,\ Uebenguth says. The incident was the second legal entanglement originating in the classified ad columns of student newspapers this school year. In November, a student placed a classified ad in the University of Massachusetts- Amherst Dally Collegian that asked for applications to join a \hit squad\ to shoot then- President-elect Reagan. The U.S. Secret Service quickly began an investigation through the Massachusetts attorney-general's office, finally subpoenaing Collegian editor Rob Stein to get the name of the person who placed the ad .. As it was printed, the ad was signed \Jimmy Carter.\ The student apparently suffered no further con- sequences. \As far as I know, there have been no charges filed,\ Stein says. The state attorney-general's office would not comment. Mass' Stein agrees classified columns are often used for jokes, but adds that since the Reagan ad episode, \we've . been screening the classifieds much more closely, and being a little stricter about what we allow in the paper.\ w'F-&t~mPf.o ~ r.ollege Press Serv1ce CHART YOUR OWN COURSE You <;an't ask for better navigator training than you can get from the United States Air Force. And you can't be better prepared to chart your own course for the future than through Air Force ROTC. If you're a young person who can qualify for navigator train- ing, you've got a good start. You can also compete for a scholar- ship that will provide financial assistance while you work on your degree. HOTC Gateway to a great way of I ife. ~··.I'; u 0 .. ( 1 ..... ~ .. • { '• 1' , \\ ~ \' ' l- • ' ... '• (i; .. • • ' ' After commissioning, your top-notch training will continue. at Mather Air Force l?ase near Sacramento, where Air Force navigators are trained, in the ultra-modem T-43 jet' aircraft. . Following 33 weeks of in ten- sive training, you'll be awarded the silver wings of an Air Force navigator. From there on, the sky's the limit. Find out about AFROTC and the navigatqr program. Chart a secure future for yourself. Capt Doug Kewer · RPI Armory Rm 317 Phone: 270-6236 PI (CPS)· photogra1 visited sc western 0 in search c magazine' to-campu, counterec presidents Two ye combed t models, irl and the ref.used P: advertisin1 This yea Sherrel St1 anything\ schools o Conferene• school, th hasbeen t: ''We've popular!'' Snow ~ average ol interviews the seve: visited ii compared the Ivy I says this times, but Snow's supported quiet rec' received J and the 1 nessee, Au Alabama. staged b~ Alab8ma~ checking c I I I I I I I I I I F Ft 16 Vc Or E: Fe 12 37 I c L. .. :

Page 11 Playboy Protest Dear Mule • • • (CPS)--Wben Playboy photographer David Chan visited schools of the South- western Conference last spring in search of women to grace the magazine's September \Back- to-campus\ issue, he en- countered angry university presidents and· bomb threats. Two years ago,. when he combed :the Ivy League for mGdels, irate students picketed, and the Harvard Crimson re£used Playboy's request ·for advertising space. This year, Chan and assistant Sherrel Snow were \ready for anything\ wheri they headed for schools of the Southeastern Conference. At school after school, the response thus. far has been the same, says. Sn.ow: ''We've never been so popular!'' Snow estimates that an average of 200 students sought interviews With Chan at each of the seven schools they've visited in the last month, compared to only pbout 100 at the Ivy League schools. She says this is not a sign of the times, but a sign of location. Snow's observations are supported by the relatively- quiet reception Playboy has received .at Mississippi State and the universities of Ten- nessee, Auburn, Mississippi and Alabama. Chan says a protest staged by 15 University of Alabama stud~nts whUe he was checking out of his motel room for It! there has been the extent of Playboy's opposition. . \We could use a few protests around here,\ Snow says. \We're not a big topic of discussion on campus. People either wan:t to interview or they don't. But protests make it a big issue ... makes people want to check us out who ordinarily wouldn't pay us any attention.\ David Salyers, head of the magazine's public relations office says, '!Those girls who protest against other girls wanting to be in Playbo·y are saying, 'We don't agree with what you're doing, .so we're not going to let you do it;. we're not going to let you have the right to make your own decisions.' It's like if I were. to say to someone, 'I don't like drinking, so I'm not going to let anybody drink.' It doesn't make sense.\ When Harvard refused to run Chan's ads for prospective models in the Crimson, Salyers \thought it rather funny, Harval'd being supposedly this great bastion of liberalism and free speech. What they were saying was, 'not with our women, you don't.\ ·Salyers admits \the Baylor thing got a bit nastier\ when University President Abner McCall threatened to expell any Baylor students appearing nude in the magazine, and then fired three of the school's newspaper editors for disagreeing with him. :: Contmued from page 4 Upsill;>n Yau emblem on the front and with nicknames engraved in tile back. It had other junk too but it had a shot glass just like the shaker. Anyway, we all had our shot glasses. with us so we did shots untilthey ran out of Tequila and left. I overheard Dave K .. telling some co-ed that he could tell people had been there by the amount of grease on the front of their shirts. Security was in front of LSD as we got back to the good party. My buddy from the soccer team said that townies from the high school were causing a little trouble. Some punk got all bwnmed out wben he saw his girl friend coming downstairs with one of the brothers, Ironman - you know him. I guess- the little stud couldn't deal with the situation, it's a dog-eat-dog snake-in-the- grass world, you know. Well, the kid took a punch at Iron- -man. He just blocked it, picked him up by the back 'of the pants and threw him out the door. All his pubescent buddies started acting tough. Then Security came and sent them home to their mommies. We were turtling in beer we were laughing so hard. The nerds had all gone home by then so they put on some Dead and we got down to some serious partying. Somebody moved a keg into the dining room so we didn't have to stop ... ;.~··::::.;::.:~·:'' 1 .. . . . . II ,; :I • It . . . - .. ·- tl ••••• ··: ·.: ·.:·.~.:=· . . .. ' •' .. , . ,; I.' I ' , .. . . . . . . -· .. . . . . . . - ~· .. ·.·. .. I I I I I Free Sa~sage . ' . . , .. . . . ·. ' ' . .. . . I I I I I I I Free Sausage on any 16\ pizza Value $.95 One coupon per pizza Expires: 4-17-81 Fast, Free Delivery -- 127 Nott Terrace 372-4441 large, ... I .. ·:· )1 . . I • f • • . ' I I I Coupon is stated value off gross price - UC - . I L. .. ::.:::::::. ____ , c~u~~ ... _.. _________ .J dancing to get a beer. The gala affair went til about 5:00 a.m. You gottagive those Skiddies a lot of credit, while all our ugly co-eds were snugly sleeping in their little beds, these Japs had lasted through four changes of clothes and they were still going strong. I was just getting ready to make my move on this one that was almost passed out in the corner when the }(eg kicked. So we aU left. As we were walking by Mu Upsilon Delta, I remembered the latest gossip. Dean Kernal and Doctor D' Antelope put them on Double - Extra - Double -- Top Secret -- Academic Warning. One oftheir brothers works as a Grant- InAid for Kernal and he ,had to deliver the letter to the President explaining it to him. Naturally the message got lost and he went back and told the house. Kernal should never have given it to him but you can't blame him cause nobody knows who's a brother in MUD anyway. When we got back to the house one of the guys noticed that everything in the living room was gone. Those pukes of pledges must have taken the stuff. Before we could think of a way to get back at thern somebody said the girls from Rose Lee House were building a float for the Parents' Weekend parade that coming day. We decided to fill up water balloons and raid 'em. It was great! We barraged them and all thirteen of them were soaked. Its always nice to have a little innocent fun before you go to bed. Well, I think I better end here 'cause I've gotta .get up at 9:.00 o'clock to go see my EE 421 prof. I slept through the exam yesterday cause we were up in 'Toga til dawn. I blew off classes all week so I'll just tell him my granc:bnother died and I had to go home for the funeral. I wonder how many . grand- mothers these dwn profs think I have anyway. Take care of yourself and don't work too hard. See ya soon. Fraternally yours, Brew Thesis Tidbits Continued from page 4 provide women with more m- formation from which they may be better able to choose the orientation of childbirth most suited for them. Her date will consist largely of case stories of women and their childbirth experiences. ---- Lawrence Fallek, a 1977 graduate of Roslyn High School and a psychology major, has been awarded a grant from the College's Internal Education Foundation to complete his senior theses, \Eyewitness Testimony of Rapidly Presented Crime Scenes.\ • • Fallek's Research concerns the effect of duration of ex- posure, time delay, and prejudice on the accuracy of eyewitness testimony. Part of the study will focus specifically on whether persons who witness violent crimes are more likely to remember and describe accurately younger \criminals.\ Fallek's data will be gathered from questionnaires filled out immediately following, and also three days after, the presen- tation of slides depicting the moments before commission of violent crime . • - u- Concordiensis needs people to work on subscriptions and write articles .. Call 6155 for information • u • • u • • This Weekend at the Pub FRIDAY: ·aeef & Brew SATURDAY: Pizza & Beer 8 cut pizza and pitcher of Pabst $5.00 DRINK SPECIALS FRIDAY: All House Amaretto Drinks 90c SATURDAY: Iced Teas $2.25

Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS) April 9 1 1981 • Ices At 3:45 in ro()m -207 Bailey Hall, Hugh Allen Wilson at 7:30 p.m. Shenefield, a graduate of _· · in Memorial Chapel. Mez- Harvard Law School, will be zosopraon Betty Allen will be Phenomenological , Psychology at . Duquesne University will del:iver the lecture in psychology at 7:30 p.m. in the F acuity Lounge of the Humanities Bldg. · speaking on. anti-trust in the the.narrator. Admission is $4.00 · world market. · for adults, $2.50 for students, . ·'. . . ~ .... ..j~·Ou~A,r.\\Q .1 Apru 10-12 . and free. of charge to Union What's Happeni:ng · Aprll9 Student Recital GuUar, piano and voice • students from Union College . will be .performipg at 8 p.m. in . the Arts Building, room 202. , Composers represented will. be · Beethoven, Bartok, Albeniz, Poulenc, and Persichetti. It's · free! Musical Club Concert At 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel · John H. Shenefield Speaks FllnrCommlttee Presents Love and Death at 8 and 10 p.m. in SS016. . Aprllll J.S.O. Hillel Presents Tri-city Night at the Rafters. Fer infonnation call Norman at x6975. A.prU12 Black Awareness Week Begins Women's Week Begins Glee Club Concert \King David/' a symphonic psalm, will be performed by the Union College Women's Glee Club and the Cornell University Glee Clubunder the direction of students. J~S.O. Hillel Presents , . Bagels and Lox Brunch. See On i The Other Front. Aprll13 '· Speakers Forum Presents Fenya Fenelon at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Aprll15 FUm Committee Presents Debbie Does Dallas a~ 7, 9 and n p.m. in. SS016. Professor Clinton Speaks , Presented by the Black and Latin Student Alliance. .Time and place to be announced. Ichabod Spenser Lecture Prof. Amedeo P. Giorgi, Chairperson of the Dept. of Graduate Studies in .Get a Jobl NY State Senate Internships Applications are now available for internships with the New York State Senate for the 1981-1982 academic year. Session Assistants Program is open to Seniors, Juniors and exceptional Sophomores, and runs from January-May 1982\. Legislative Fellows .Program is open to graduate students and runs from September 1981- August 1982. Application deadline for both programs is May 8, 1981. Contact Pat Matteo in the Career Center if in- terested. of June and ends second week of· August. For more information, contact Jim Carroll-6607. Why Women's Week? Each year the Women's Net~ork organizes a week of activities celebrating the work, achievements, and changes of women in our society and at Union. So what's the point of it Oq Tile Greek froqt ·1 SPB Industries, Inc. . · Will be recruiting on April 21. Sign-up will be on April 6 at 10 a.m. They will be recl'Uiting for Engineering and Business ·· all? This week of speakers, entertainment, and discussions provides an arena for all members ..of the_ campus community to explore the changing roles of men and women and to discover the importance of this awareness. A concentrated week such as this, offering a wide variety of ac- tivities, attracts marly differeqt students and faculty, and thus acts as a catalyst for new ideas, both intellectual and social. The more varied the participants in the Women's Week activities, the more diverse and therefore, enriching the experience will be. The Women's Network invites all men and women to join in their \celebration of co- education.'' Check the schedule in this week's issue of Con• cordiensis for the activities which most interest you, and Thanks from DU The Brothers ()f Delta Upsilon would like to thank all those who participated in our fund drive for the Animal Protective Foundation of Schenectady, Inc. We were fortunate to collect a total of $175 for this fine cause. We wouldalso like to invite everyone to our I..owenbrau Party on Thursday night. LeadershipSCJhool At Delta Gamma The Epsilon AlphaChapter of Delta Gamma at Union College hosted a Province Leadership School for alurnnae and collegiate Delta Gammas from Friday to Sunday, April 3 to 5. Officers from all Delta Gamma chapters in Province I, in- cluding Union, Cornell, Adelphi and Syracuse University at- tended. Carol Wrenn, president of Delta Gamma at Union College, represented Union's chapter, along with its other 14 officers. The purpose of the school is to train members to make wor- thwhile and rewarding con- tributions to society and to promote friendship and un- derstanding in Delta Gamma. The Union Delta Gammas received two major awards at their banquet Saturday evening. These included an award for outstanding scholarship and an award .for outstanding rush achievements. Suitcase Party Delta Phi would like to an- nounce its fourth annual suit- case party which takes place May 8 from 11-4 a.m. at the Girting Center. There will be a number of prizes given away throughout the night with the first prize being an all expense paid weekend trip to Bermuda for you and your date. It's a great time! Tickets are 13 dollars on sale in Student Activities and may be pur- chased from Mrs. Marra. Beer will be free; donation for mixed drinks. Tropical dress is mandatory. :no IT! Ska.te-a-thon The sisters of Sigma Delta . Tau would like to ask for the cooperation of the Union Community in SOT's upcoming fundraising event for Muscular Dystrophy. This Saturday there is a Skate-a-thon and a beer and band party in Alwnni Gym .. The band \Lustre\- will be featured at the party, which is SPR.ING TERM 1981 MOVIES WEEKENDS: (Fridays at 10unless noted. Times.given are for Sat. & Sun.) Apri.l 3-5--Deer Hunter--7:00 & 10:00 April 10-12--Love & Death--S: 00 & 10:00 April 17-19--The Lady Vanishes--8:00 & 10:00 April 17-18--Rocky Horror Picture Show--12:00 May 1-3--The Sting--Fri. 8:00 & 10:00, Sat. 3:00p.m., 7:30 & 10:00, Sun. 8:00 & 10:00 & 10:00 May 8·10··Airplane··8:00 & 10:00 May 15-17--The Tin Drurn--8:00 & 10:30 May 22-24--Caddyshack--8: 00 & 10:00 may 29-31--Kramer vs. Kramer--8:00 & 10:00 (Rocky Horror Picture Show is showing Friday and Saturday nights at 12:00) TUESDAYS: April 7--Logan's Run--8: 00 & 10:00 April 15 (must be sllowA on Wednesday)--Debbie Does Dallas--7:00, 9:00 & 11:00 April 21--Gold Rush, The General--7,: 00 & 9:30 May 5--King Kong, Dr. Jekyll & Mr. Hyde--8:00 May 12--Fun with Dick & Jane--8: 00 & 10:()0 May 19--Hard Day's Night, 'fellow .Submarine--8:00 May 26--Fiddler on the Roof--7: 00 & lO: 00 NOTE: April 24-26, April 28 no movies will be shown. NOTE: One 10:00 show on Fridays, except The Sting (Parents Weekend). PRICES: Weekends, $1:50; Tuesdays, $1.0(), except for The Lady Vanishes and Hard Day's Night & Yellow Submarine which are free. PRESALE TICKETS: For Rocky Horror & Debbie Does Dallas. t 11 p.m. to 2 a.m. A $1 donation will be collected to benefit Muscular Dystrophy. The Skate-a~thon is a 12-.hour roller skating marathon. If you can't skate yourself, then sponsor someone wl)o will skate. When · other childfen dream of bikes and skates, children with Muscular D,ystrophy simply dream of walking. Help make their dream become reaL Volleyball·a·thon We are extending an in- vitation to your organization to play volleyball and raise money · for charity in the Phi Delta Theta-Theta Delta Chi Volleyball-a-thon in association with Red Cross Youth and Easter Seals. This fun and gruelit}g event will begin at 2 p.m., April24 and will continue until 2 p.m., on the following day, April 25. Teams from Phi Delta Theta, Theta Delta Chi, Union College and the local community will be competing against each other. Great prizes will be awarded to the top three money raisers, and Appreciation Plaques will be given to the two teams who raise the most money. For more information contact Craig Hayden, 346-2839 of John Casale, 370-0459. majars for management trainee and sales manufacturing: Friendly Ice Cream Will be recruiting on April 22. Sign:-up will be on April 6 at 10 a.m. They will be recruiting for their management trainee program. Water Safety Instructors To teach swimming in Albany Area at local day camp. Good pay, breakfast, 1unch and snack; M-F. Starts fourth week · enjoy yourself. · WOMEN'S WEEK 1981 PRESENTS ''KICK OFF BRUNCH'' Sunday, April 12 11:00-1:00 in the Pub $1.00 per person Open to tbe entire campus com.munity UNION COLLEGE POLITICAL FORUM PRESENTS: MICHAEL ROBINSON Director of the Media Analysis Project George· Washingto-n University \ FOR REAGAN, IN PRESS AS IN BUDGETS, LESS IS MORE APRIL 21st at 7:30 p.m. in 4th floor lounge, Carnegie ALL ARE WELCOME! REFRESHMENTS SERVED .. UNION COLLEGE SPEAKER'S FORUM AND JSO-HILLEL PROUDLY. PRESENT: . ~ FANYA. FENELQ.N Author· and subject of the T.V. Production- \PLAYING FOR TIME\ starring Vanessa Redgrave MONDAY, APRIL 13th in MEMORIAL CHAPEL at 8 :00 $1.00 with ID $1 .50 to the public First 25 to sign up in Student Activi.ties will be invited to the recepti.on. . I Gt Nc Any stu magazine Pbullshers please c< Chadwick Safety Off skellar) o 1981, betw4 The Sch Sale will b 15 at 9:30; will be sell paperback All seni1 about wh~ Gift to the attend a rr April 13, ; Lounge. F served. J. David Hax Lonergan, The Fre a cover d4 any desigr 546 by Ap1 Union ' with a B < average apply for~ College Exchange 82 acadern

•.;-~' .{·A:~ t-~;.\.',<'.:,1.<.~1--·· .1/~· CJO'NOOR-BIENSIS, Apri·Z 9~ 1981 · · Page 13 . ' .,;. <:::> - \ ,, iJ General Nottices Any student vvho purchased magazine subs~riptions from Pbullshers Marketing Agency, please contact: Sgt. Chris Chadwick at the Secutity and · Safety Office (above the Rat- skellar) on Friday, April 10, 1981, between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. The Schaeffer Library Book Sale will be held on April14 and 15 at 9:30 a .. m. Hardback books will be selling for 50 cents each; paperbacks for 25 cents each. student will spend his•her junior -year abroad at tbe University of St. Andrew's, Scotland's oldest university. Tickets for Parent's Weekend (May l, 2 and 3) will go on sale April14 at 1 p.m. in the lobby of Carnegie. First come, first served. Tickets for the following events will be sold: Cabaret, Coffee House, Film Conupittee, Speakers Forum, Glee Club, and Bib Band at the Ramada Inn. Tickets for \Noah Is a RiJ:!hteous Man\ (And a Damn CCC News All seniors who have ideas Any student currently serving about what this year's Senior , o~ a student Fotwn Committ~e Gift to the College should be can . (I.e., C?ncert, .Speaker:s attend a meeting next Monday, ... Forum, F1hn, Elect!on, Traff~c April 13, at 7 p.m. in Strauss • ~nd Pet Co~t, Soc;tal) who 1s Lounge. Refreshments will be . mtere~ted m ~ervmg as the served. Any questions call ' co~ttee chairperson should David Handler 372-6332 or Ed . subm1t an essay to Mrs. Marra Lonergan 370-2734 ' · in Student Activities by Mon- ' · : · day, April13,. 1981. Anyone with The Freshman Record needs · questions should contact a cover design.! Please submit Catherine Johnson, COC any designs in black ink to Box ' chairperson at Box 888. Any 546 by April17. student who is interested in serving as the chairperson of Union College sophomore with a B or better grade point average are encouraged to apply for selection as the Union College ''St. Andrew's ExchangeStudent\ for the 1981- 82 academic year. The selected · the Social Committee should · contact Catherine Johnson. Hillel Presents This Sunday, April12, Hillel is ·. hosting a brunch for the • tees Good Carpenter, Too! ) will be soldattheNott Memorial andin the lobby of Carnegie. For further information, call Lorraine Marra-6118. On April 9 and 10, during the WRUC 6: 15 news report, listen and win. Wild Bill's donated 50 chicken wings to give away to the lucky callers. Be a lucky cluck and win Wild Bill's Wings! German Table: Each Thursday in the Pub at 12:30. All are invited tp attend. AUFWIEDERSEHEN! Schenectady chapter of B'nai B'rith. In addition to the usual good food and lively music, · . there will be a one-half hour film entitled Rendez-vous with Freedom. This is an edited version of the award-winning ABC docwnentary which traces Jewish immigration from the seventeenth to the twentieth centuries and documents the life they found and made here in the U.S. It is an excellent short filfu and promises to enhance · and make the brunch an ex- citing event. The brunch will be in the Banquet Room of the first . floor Of Carnegie Hall and will be $1.00 for members and $2.00 for non-members. Shalom, u'lihitraot! Alumni Connell Congratulations ·on your \Weight Reduction Wor~shops\ beginning Wed- nesday, April 1st at the Health · · Service. Workshops Will be held each Wednesday from 4-5 p.m. for six weeks. All interested men and women are welcome to join Sandy and Carol! Call Health Service for further in- formation. Gong Show . · Interested fu a GONG SHOW? CABARET will present its 2nd selection of your two Class Representatives to the Alumni Council. The membens of your Class elected to the Council for the Class •of 1981 are Kathleen M. Donohue and Robin S. Cornick. The Alumni Council plays a strategic role for all alumni of the College. We, of the · Council, hope that you will take a moment to congratulate them and pass on your input. The Spring Alwnni Council Meeting is scheduled for Saturday, April 11, 1981, and is being held in conjunction with the one-year anniversary of The Campaign for Union. Rest assured that \Kathy and Robin will keep you informed andreport back to you on the pertinent topics being discussed at all Alumni Council meetings. Orientation Lives . The Orientation Committee '81 is alive and well at Union College planning orientation for next fall. We're a group of 19 people who want to make next fall a special time for all in- corning students and. everyone else involved with orientation. We started working at the end of Winter Term to get a head start and are now fully underway in the spring. Orientation is a time when new students become acquainted with the place they will be spending the next few years of their lives. Who is better suited to know what they should learn about Union than annual gong show during the 8th week of spring term. We need your talent, good or bad, .to make this event a success. We will be having auditions soon - so get your act together! Contact Betsy at 382-9303 for further info. people who are already students here. Therefore, if you have any ideas, suggestions, positive of negative criticisms we want to hear them. Please contact one of the two Co-Chairpersons, Kelly Dennin and Brian Marks or anyone else on the com- mittee. Thank you for your help in planning orientation '81. Attentlcm Seniors The Corrunencement Com- mittee is searching for anyone interested in delivering the Senior Class speech at Com- mencement. The speeches should not exceed 5-7 pages in length, and should contain only your ID nwnber. All those in- terested may submit a double- spaced typed copy of their speech to Mike Andolina in the Student Affairs Office before April 30, 1981 . 1st Show of Spring Term! Thursday, April 9th Act One: Jim Burns Act Two: The Blues Brothers Band featuring Rich Altman and Rob Derbabian John Sciortino Kevin Angus Clint Sours Andre Enceneat Jim Ward Joe Nalli Mike Zanta Ned Rosen Shows at 9 & 11 p.m. Tickets on sale in Carnegie at 8 p.m. 100 CASESI Lowenbrau Party Tonight , 9:00 at Delta Upsilon 3-12 oz.bottles for $1.00 DOOR PRIZES! 3600 Seconds A News Program Investigative Reporting A gynecologist on campus? - Susan Stern Reagan's views on student aid - Michael Rogers Expose on Religious Cults - Rob Mains . Major League Baseball Begins · Chuck Reynolds WRUC Tonight lO:OO p.m. on 90.9 FM

' ' Page 14 OONOORDllilNSIS, April 9, 1981 Experience to Help Nine Experience, both in thE coaching ranks and on tilE diamond, will be a key factor for the 1981 edition of Union Co liege's women's soft ball team. The Dutchwomen, coming off a 5-6 season in 1930 under rookie coach Jane Hopkins, Iost only one player from last year giving Union a strong nucleus for the upcoming 11-game campaign. ''Those two work extremely well together,\ said Hopkins in referring to her battery. \Dina should do very well this year and l..ynn runs the team while they are ·on the field.'' The infield consists of junior Carol Wrenn at first, sophomore Lynne Wright at second, senior Debbie Downey at short and sophomore Kelly Liese at third. a classic lead-off hitter, .in addition to being an excellent bunter and possessing valuable base running skills. O'Donnell is starting for her fourth year, and has proven her ability to hit in the clutch as well as with .power. They opened their 1981 season against Russell Sage on Tuesday. They lost to th·e visiting team, 8· 7, in a close nine inning game. The Dutchwomen face RP~ on Friday (3 :00} before traveling to St. Rose on April 11 (11 :00) and hosting Albany on April 13 at 3 :30. Softba II player --Sheila 0' Donnell \I feel that -one of our biggest strengths is the _fact that we played together last year an<i we come into the season knowing what each other can do.\ said Hopkins. \As for myself, I have a year of collegiate coaching Wlder my belt so I'll know what to expect in certain situations.\ Other returning players in- clude junior Kirsten Peterson and sophomore Brenda Hugick. The Dutchwomen should be .a good team when at the plate with Downey and Bigda setting up innings with singles and LeBlanc, Liese and O'Donnell proyidin~ the power. Stickers Optimistic The team is young; they have only two seniors, Debbie Downey and Sheila O'Donnell. - Downey, captain of the team, is Union College's women,s lacrosse team, with all four of its top scorers back from 1980's 6-5 season, is lookiiig forward to an explosive season and at least an 8-3 record for 1981. Seven of the nine positions will be occupied by players who were members of last year~ s squad. Only junior Mary Bonk· Vasko, .freshman Caroly--n Bigda, and freshman Linda Gutin are new additions. Both Bigda and Gutin have been described as solid players by Hopkins; however, the lack of collegiate experience is tile biggest obstacle facing th:e rookie duo. 1980 Results - Lacrosse \The scoring potential is there,\ said fourth-year coach Martha 'Marty' Morrison, who owns a three year record of 13- 18 and the distinction of piloting Union's first' winning season since the program began in 1975. \Only three glrls are gone from last year's team so we've got excellent experience at most positions.\ The remaining spots on th:e starting roster are taken hy veteran players. On the mound, the Dutchwomen will put tbeir fate in the ann of sophomor-e Dina Pliotis while junior Lynn LeBlanc is behind the plate. Union 8, Skidmore 1 West Point 16, Union 6 Union 9, Russell Sage 4 Hartwick 16, Union 4 Union 11, Oneonta 10 Middlebury 13, Union 4 Union 10, Hamilton 6 Union 10, Castleton 9 Colgate 24, Union 9 Union 9, Russell Sage 4 Williams 14, Union 11 RECORD: 6-5 1980 Results Softball Sophomore Holly Howard led the team in scoring last year with 37 goals and was voted the squad's most valuable player. A first-year standout at Kingswood-Oxford P.rep School, Howard also recorded over 30 assists in 1980. Junior Sheryl Katz ·was Union!s top scorer during her freshman season and registered the second highest total last year as a sophomore with 19 talli.es. Sophomore Emily Monosson placed third in- the Dutchwomen's scoring derby with 14 goals. She possesses outstanding skills and is a very smooth performer according to Morrison. Union's fourth attacker, and the fourth leading scorer from last season, is junior Liz Garcia. She will miss Union's pre-season· due to a study term abroad, but is RPI 12, Union 6 · Siena 8, Union 7 Albany 24, Union 8 Ulster 14, Union 11 Union 8, RPI 7 Union 10, St. Rose 4 Union 6, Oneonta 4 Colgate 11, Union 0 -----------------~SCHOOL I The academic summer sessions at Skidmore College offer opportunity to eam college credits in a \\ide variety of subjects. Session I /flay 27- July 3, 1981 Session II July 6- August 14. 1981 26 Courses 21 CourseS -------------------------DANCE.___. _____________________ _____ Attend one or more dance sessio~s either in Saratoga Springs orin New York Oty. r acuity are composed of guest artists and the Skidmore faculty. A multi-faceted program, including: Modem Technique, Ballet and Pointe Technique,lmprovisa· tion. Workshops, and Spec1al Da~ce Forms is offered. ------ EriSEI\\BLE THEATRE _____ _ Russell Sage 8, Union 7 Union 6, Albany 5 Union 16, New Paltz 3 RECORD: 5-6 I Go teal11· Date 4-7 4-10 4-11 4-13 4-15 4-18 4-24 4-25 4-27 5-1 5-6 _ expected to ta.ke a starting role Wom.en's Softball Opponent Time Russell Sage 3:30 H RPI 3:00 St. Rose 11:00 Albany 3:30 H Siena 3:30 Skidmore 1:00 Skidmore 3:30 H Oneonta 1:00 H New Paltz 3:30 H Ulster CC 4:00 H Albany 3:30 when she returns. Garcia tallied nine goals for Union last year. On defense, which Morrison feels is the .team's strongest suit, Nancy Colt returns after missing her entire j11nior year with an injury. \Nmcy can't wait for the season to start,'' say_s Morrison. \Lacrosse is her sport and she feels like she has to make up for last year.\ Morrison describes Colt as a fast but smooth-- player who is excellent at bringing the ball upfield. Union's on-the-field coach is Buthaina Shukri. \Buthaina is a tremendous leader,\ began Morrison. '~She. knows how to position players and is very consistent in her ' play.'' The Dutchwomen' s other top defenders are Sue Ensel and Mary Beth Bttrnett. Both women have a nose for the ball according to Morrison. Two positions that are question marks at tbis· time are the cover point and goalie. Three fresh- men, Roberta Stei.n, Kathy Kozera, and Ma-ry McGrath are battling for the starting cover position. In goal, Sue Bloom- berg started every game for the jayvees last year while Julie Deldeo played defense for the Dutchwomen last season. Neither have varsity ex- perience at the p()sition. Last Year's Score 8-7 RS 12-6 R, 8-7 U 104 u 24-8 A, 6-5 U 8-7 s did not play 6-4 u 16-3 u 14-11 Ul. Perfonnance Aft Workshop: May 27 - July 3. 198 t The workshop explores performance methods, media and motivation and includes daily training in acting, vocal work and design techniques and theol)l. Women's lacro..sse --------SUMMERSIX.-------- SIX 1: May 27 - July 3, 1981 SIX II: July 6 - August t 4, 198'1 The curriculum includes both Studio and Art History courses. The program will be offered in 2 six·week sessions. -----------PASS '81 ________ ,..._..;;.__ July 6 - August 1~. 1981 PASS (Program for Acceleration at Skidmore Summer) offers ·College level courses for academic credit to high school students with strong academic records. Enrollment is open to those who have completed their Junior year in high school, and to those who will graduate in June. An opportunity to live on campus and to attend classes ..Mth regularly matriculated college students. Typically, PASS students enroll.in two courses. . s For further inforn1ation please contact Office of the Dean of Special Programs/ M , ~JS!2£:28~~ COL~};a9~ Date 4-10 4-11 4-16 4-18 4-20 4-22 4-24 4-29 5-2 5-4 5-7 OppDnent Skidmore West Point Russell Sage Hartwick Wells Middlebury Oneonta Castleton Russell Sage Williams Hamilton Time Last Year's Score 3:00 8-1 u 2:00 H 16-6 WP 3:00 9-4 u, 11-3 u 1:00 16-4 H 4:00 H. .did not play 3:00 13-4M 3:30 11·10 u 3:30 10..9 c '11:00 H 9-4 U, 11-3 U 4:00 H 14-11 w 4:00 H 10-6 u 1.. 11) c:: l.. 11) ..J 11) > (}.) ;.. V) ,.--~· I I I I I I I I I I I ~ Name ~ Phone I 1 Organ· I ~ Event( L..-~- Win Both th4 hockey pla last Wednel The night the semifin~ the first g eliminated virtue of ; second ga Cannonball• \B\ 4-0. Next on t; broomball made up of players toot Jungle Fox1 Even Five Man Five Man CoedVoll Broomba Men'sHo Men'sHo Women's Activity Volleybal Frisbie Stickball Swim Me Softball Frisbie Swim Me Frisbie Softball ·. :.. .Q 0 .... 0 f Intramural

CONOOBDIEN$18, April 9, 1981 Page 15 . ' Union College liltramurals ,..------------·APPLICATIO.N FORM:·------------1 I ·. • . . . . . I 1 Sw,•m Meet 1 1 I I Men's and Womenls lntramurals I I I .1 ':Entries due Th~rsday. A:pril. 16 I I Swim Meet Friday afternoon AprU 17 ( I I ~ Name I I I I Phone No. 1 I I 1 Orga.n i.zation (if any) I I I ~ Event{s) I ~---------------------------------~ Captain Barry .Rosenberg returns serve in team's victory over Hartwick ' . Wi~ter Sports Finish Both the broomball and hockey playoffs were played last Wednesday. The night got underway with the semifinals in broomball. In the first game Home Office eliminated Delta Chi 1-0 by virtue of a shootout. In the second game the Chi Psi Cannonballers beat Sigma Chi \B\ 4...0. Next on tap was the women's broom ball final. The J estons, made up of mostly field hockey players took the crown over the Jungle Foxes. The next games were the \A\ and \B\ hockey championship. · In the \A\ game Psi Upsilon defeated Chi PsL The \B\ game was a low scoring~ tight checking one which found Kappa Sigma overcoming ZBT~ The broomball·championship was the nightcap. It found two teams who had only 2 goals combined seored on them all year. The two teams were survivors of a field of 37. Chi Psi who seemed to have more ex- perience, won the championship with a 3-0 victory. Results of Last Term's Events Event Five Man Basketball \A\ Five Man Basketball \B\ Coed Volleyball Broom ball Men's Hockey \A\ Men's Hockey \B\ Women's Broomball SPRING EVENTS Activity Volleyball Frisbie Stickball Swim Meet Softball Frisbie Swim Meet Frisbie Softball Men's Entry Due April 9 April14 April15 Aprill6 Women's April 9 April14 April16 Co-Ree April14 . April15 WiJmer Sigma Chi Phi Sigma Kappa Phi Sigma Kappa Chi Psi Cannonballers Psi Upsilon Kappa Sigma Jetsons Play Begbls April Hi April 21. April Zl Aprill7 April U3 April21 April21 April20 Intramural women's broomball championship Home Cooking at the KOSHER KITCHEN Full Meal Plan ____ $350.00 Dinners _ _,__ _____ $200.00 Fri~ay_ Nights ____ $28.00 Special Passover Plan __ $50.00 Please make reservations by April 11 Contact: Jessica Braginslcy, 370-691 J Maury Storch; 370-6590 Join Us I Chi Psi Annual- Beer Rally Tuesday, April 21 Contact Tod Fobare or John Scotto for information: 382-9019

Page 16 OONCORDIENSIS, April 9; 1981 >- ,_ QJ > <( - c: (j) ~ >- .c 0 - 0 .c:: a. Laxmen Stand at 2-3 . . . By STEVE MYERS For the past few years, the Union College Lacrosse Team has managed, through various fund raising techniques, to travel seuthwarcl during the spring break in search of wanner weather and outdoor practice time. The first :festination . of the trip was Roanoke, Va. Here, the team played the Roanoke Valley Lacrosse Club, the second outdoor experience for them. Aside from this £actor and the preceding long car ride, Union played even with the club team throughout most of the scrimmage. Migrating further south, the team stopped at University of South Carolina, Chapel Hill, where they .stayed for fiv~. days. During this period, the warm weather that had been hoped for closer resembled the weather that they had left behind in Schenectady, that of col·d temperatures and scattered flurries. In fact, on one par- ticular night, while practicing _ tested their talents against the North Carolina Lacrosse Club in another scrimmage, but failed to match the superior talent of the club team. at North Carolina's astro-turf field, the team worked out amidst an uncommon blizzard. While at Chapel Hill, the team's · season opener was played against Georgia Tech, with Union as the home team. The Dutchmen took contrel of the game from the first quarter, and fear of Georgia Tech rising back never appeared, as Union · took the opener 23-8. Union also ~ ~~£~,;~~f;*:~~;;: Moving once again, the team halted at Williamsburg, VA, where they anxiously awaited the rematch against the College of William and Mary, who just >- one year before succeeded in ~ > upsetting the Dutchmen. The <C team setrmed prepared to play, t: but after the final whistle h~d ~ blown, the powerful William >- and Mary team proved their ..o superiority with a 20-9 victory ... ~ Attempting to complete the _g journey with a winning record, o:. the Dutchmen travelled to their final destination, Washington, D.C., anticipating the final ~ ~:;:4:;--~-&~~¥~~ .Mercer makes the save Cardany Named All-American - Senior guard Joe Cardany, Union College's all-time leading scorer with 1,790 points, was elected third team All- American by the National Association of Basltetball Coaches. The Division III All- American, completed the 198G- 81 season with 508 points and a 19.5 average, both tops for the 14-12 Dutchmen. Cardany hit 50 percent of his field goals (220 for 438) and· 77 percent of his free throws (68 for 88). He pulled in 88 rebounds, handed out 85 assists, while coming up with 33 steals, second highest for the team in all three departments. For his four-year career, Cardany played in 97 of 98 games and connected on 751 of 1,557 field goals (48.2 percent) and 288 of 383 free throws (75.2 percent). He pulled in 274 rebounds, handed out 268 points, established a new all-time scoring record with 1,790 points and finished his collegiate career with an 18.4 scoring average. Joe was also voted to the ECAL Division III Upstate New· York All-Star team for the third straight year. Sean. Ourham busts past defeRder game against Georgetown University. The game day being the nicest day of the trip, the Union team took the field, challenging its new opponent. The battle lasted but not long enough for the Georgetown team as the Dutchmen went on to take the victory 11-4 and round out a fine southern trip with a 2-1 record Jn.. the games played. After returning horne, the team faced the regular season schedule, with the home opener again_st . Siena College. Defeating last year at Siena 17- 16 in overtime, Union prepared themselves for a tough rematch, one in which their opponent would be out for blood. The Dutchmen played a tough first half, holdiJ;J.g their op- ponent within a three goal margin (6-3') but, in the third quarter, Siena seemed to run away with the game, capitalizing on all of Union's mistakes. The final score told the story as Siena went on to win 15-4. Determined to fight back and not let this defeat handicap their playing ability, the Dut- chmen rallied against Hartwick College during the past weekend, with Jim Wright scoring . 5 goals and Sean Durham, 4, but the efforts seemed not enough as they fell short 15-13 to Hartwick. SPORTS HAPPENINGS April9- Apri 115 Varsity Lacrosse J. V. Lacrosse Varsity Baseball Varsity Tennis Outdoor Track Women's Lacrosse Varsity Softball Rugby April9 St. Lawrence April 11 at Geneseo AprillS Syracuse AprillORPI AprU 13 H. V .C. C. April 9 Siena April 11 LeMoyne Aprill3 at Albany April14 at Williams April 11 at Hobart Aprill5 Skidmore April11 at RPI Apr i I l4 at Binghamton AprillO at Skidmore Aprilll West Point April 10 at RP I Aprilll at St. Rose April 13 Albany · Apri 115 at Siena April ll Siena Tournament Ruggers Nipped by Albany Med Joe Cardany Sports Briefs Head football coach, Joe Wirth, has announced the team selection for co-captains for the 1981 football season. Defensive end Bruce Melina and offensive guard Mike Dana were elected by the team at a squad meeting held on Wednesday, Aprill. Melina (6'0, 195) and Dana (6'0, 210) are both from Oneida, N.Y., and have both been starters for the Dutchmen football team .since their fresh~ man seasons. Sophomore . wing Don Beall was voted the Skating Dut- chmen's Most Valuable Player for the recently concluded 1980~ 81 season. Beall finished second on the team in scoring with 15 goals, 1~ assists and 28 points. The Albany Medical School. playing field was hit by heavy rains and gusty winds. The playing condition prevented the Union back's from moving efficiently. Adding to the woes of the Union ruggers, the Albany Med squadtook the field with a serum containing several two hundred pound-plus serummers while the Union serum lacked veteran Co- Captain Craig Bell and Andy Audet, who were not on hand for personal reasons. The mucky conditions were just what Albany Med needed and throughout the game they kept the ball near their a we some s crummers. Anchoring the Union scrwn in their tough .battle were stan- douts Jody Karlin and Jim Hemin way. Early in the game, Albany Med scored with an inside center to fly-half scissor Which caught the Union backs unaware in the first five minutes of their playing season. After this mishap the Union backs were impenetrable and the Albany Med hacks never saw the try-line again. In second half action the powerful Albany · Med serum forced the ball over the try-line for Albany Med's second and final score. Soon after, the Union serum dug in and got the ball out to the line and rookie wing Jack Snapkowski dove ten_· yards for a Union score. With playing conditions rapidly deteriorating due to the weather the final score stood at Albany Med 8, Union College 4. In the B game, Union was revenged and .triumphed over the Albany Med. squad 7 to 4. Observing the mishaps of the A ga.me the Union B backs shortened their splits and. played nearer the serum for extra support. The result was an early Union weak side score by wing Steve Carter, followed soon after by a penalty kick score off the vicious boot of fullback Steve Waller. Late in the game the AlbanY backs, following their powerful serum, made their only tallY with a two yard dash over the try-line. However, AlbanY Med's score came too late to turn the tide and when the final whistle sounded the Union ' rtiggers were triumphani. Union College RFC has its second game this Saturday at the annual Siena rugby tour· nament where such rugbY (M>werhouses as Siena, Mid· dlebury, Hamilton, Army, University of Vermont, and RPl will be present. Captain CardinO _ co:trunented that with the ex· pected dry weather conditions and first game jitters over with, the Union squad should do quite well. Also, he added that the thirty-six kegs on hand sho~ld give the Union club added m· centive. Vol. 1... QJ - tJ) ro .... Cl. c: ro E ,_ 0 z >. _() 0 - 0 .c:: n. PresJ4 Tr- B~ Who bodyo to eat J and weeke truste1 Afte April volved which issues truste times meml trustei studer Senioi Lloyd, tative studer perioc Mar durin~ Vice-: Affair sabba truste ~e cordit \was meeti public tar gel \of til millio three Cor athle discu: board woulc footb; - At t Janm enca1 over· meaiJ make COttlJ ashe: Origi that miHi estirr. appr remo Ar trust~ the York failw this trust a plc: Th took

y ' s ,_ Cll .... IJ) ro a: c ro E ,_ 0 z >- ..0 0 o+- 0 .s: a.. VoL 110; No. 19 Pres~dent Morris addresses Trustees and Aamm1srrarcrs Tr-ustees Meet-:. Good News By SUE BLOOMBERG Who else besides the student body of Union College were able to eat in the student dining halls and attend Cabaret · last weekend'? None other than the trustees of Union College. stay at Union<- Lonergan and Uoyd commented that \the trustees were most pleased with the building.\ A prop()sal negotiated bet- ween the administration and the six fraternities which own their own houses was discussed at the trustefi)s meeting. If this proposa1 was· adopted, the six privately owned fraternities would, be involved in a loan program which would allow them to make improvements in areas such as fire safety, en~r gy cons erva tio n, rehabilitation, and structural problems in each of their houses. This will be discussed further at the next trustee meeting during graduation weekend. • Thursday,. April 16,1981 RA's Selected By JOEY BECKERMAN The position of resident ad- visor {RA) is a very difficult one' Many of the important aspects of his .responsibility fall in the grey area of intangibility. The RA must be able to in- stinctively kr,ow when his presence or actia is appropriate and necessary. In order to hopefully select the most qualified people for this im- portant pDsition a very elaborate process is employed. Each candidate is in- terviewed ~y his or her own RA and a three person subgroup (the 'RA Selection committee consisted of twenty-four seniors). Additionally, the subgroup interviewed the candidate's sponsor, who serv.ed as a character reference. The subgroup then either recommends, does not recommend, or leave the candidate as questionable. A candidate is dropped from the selection process if the subgroup does not recommend him. All other candidates are presented by the subgroup who interviewed him before the entire selection cormnittee, at which time committee rnem• hers take notes on the can- didate. After all candidates are !presented, there is an open .discussion during, which any ·committee member can add any points, positive or negative, about the candidate. Next, each candidate is voted on. The voting is done after all can- didates are presented to guarantee that it is done on a comparative basis. In order to be a head RA (HRA) of a dorm, the candidate had to be interviewed by the HRA of his dorm, resident life ,officials, as well as the director of housing. HRA candidates had to first be approved for RA, after which they were eligible for the HRA position. The subgroup then presented the candidate to the committee for the liRA position. A candidate had to receive two-thirds of the vote (sixteen out of twenty four) 'in order to be selected .for HRA. After arriving on Thursday, April 9, the trustees were in- volved in a three day program, which covered many important issues at Union. The board of trustees, which rne.ets four times a year, is composed of 35 members, with 2 faculty trustees and 2 members of the student body. Ed Lonergan, the Senior representative and Will lloyd, tfie Junior represen- tative were elected by the student body for a two year period. Campaign Earns $23M Brion Carroll and Chip Morris, who, along with Dave Wood, served as moderators for the selection committee, told me about the hard work in- volved in choosing the RA staff. In addition to the twenty hours the committee spent this past weekend picking next year's staff, Chip and Brion spent rol!ghly eight more hours organizing the committee, meeting with the subgroups, and interviewing HRA can· didates. The countless hours the subgroups and present RA's and HRA's spent interviewing candidates should not be overlooked. Chip and Brion stressed that this past weekend was very grueling and tough on the selection committee. However, the committee acted very professionally and put a lot of thought into ehoosing next year's RA~s. Carroll stated, \it is the best committee I have seen in terms of the amount of work they did and their level of commitment.'' Chip added, \everyone on the committee Many issues were resolved during this time. -A proposal by Vice-President of Academic Affairs, D'Andrea, -for mini- sabbatics, was approved by the trustees. . ~e endowment drive, ac- cording to Lonergan and Lloyd, \was of major concern at this meeting.\ After its first year of public existence, the drive is on target. Lloyd mentioned that \of the $38 million-wanted, $23 million have been reached with three years to go.\ Construction of the new athletic facilities was also discussed last weekend. The board was informed that \it would be completed .for the next football season.'' - At the last trustees meeting in January it had been decided to encapsulate Fox and Davidson over the summer break. In the meantime it has been decided to make a full-scale project of completely removing the asbestos from the dorms. Originally, it was speculated that this would cost over one million dollars. It is now estimated that the cost will be approximately $550,000 to remove the asbestos. A resolution was made by the trustees to curtail meeting at the University Club in New_ York because of the Club's failure to admit women. Unless this clause is changed, the trustees will look elsewhere for a place to meet. - The dedication of Becker Hall took place during tb~ trustees' Union ~ College announced fall. Saturday that it has received These bring to eleven the $23 million in commitments to number of named professor- The Campaign for Union, a $38 ships at the College. million endowment and Also since the start of ad- operating support campaign vance gift solicitation, Hanigan that offiCially began last April. noted, more than $500,000 In Among the highlights of the additional scholarship en- Campaign's first public year, dowment has been received and College Trustee Thomas E. pledges for another $250,000 Hanigan, Jr. said, are a $500,000 have been made. Scholarship challenge grant from the endowment will also be National Endowment for the enhanced by trusts and Humanities, a $150,000 grant bequests totaling more than from IBM to support faculty $800,000. development in the sciences and ''Naturally we are pleased engineering, and a·$60;000 grant that at this stage we have $23 from IBM to endow a million in commitments to the scholarship fund for minority Campaign,\ Hanigan said. and women engineering \That's a substantial increase students. over the nucleus fund of some Since the start of advance gift $16 million that existed when we solicitation for the Campaign, kicked off the Campaign Hanigan said, five endowed publicly last April.'' professorships have been The nucleus fund consisted of created, each a~ the level of advance gifts and pledges made $750,000 or more. Saturday, the before the Campaign's official College .officially installed start in April, 1980. One of those professors in two of these gifts received special academic chairs--Manfred recognition Saturday with the Jonas of the History Depart- dedication of Stanley R. Becker ment to the Washington Irving Hall. Chair -in Modern Litera~y and Formerly Old Gym Hall, Historical Studies, established Becker Hall was renovated and by the gifts of Mr. and Mrs. will be maintained with a Roger T. Stone (Union class of __ . $750,000 gift from Union 1928), and Daniel Robbins ofthe alwnnus Stanley R. Becker, Arts Department to the May I. class of 1940. The building Baker Professorship of the houses the College's Admissions Arts, established by a trust and Financial Aid offices. from the late Walter C. Baker Becker, a real estate (Union class of 1915). developer and financier, lives in New endowed professorships East Hampton, N.Y. also include the Chauncey H. Special recognition was also Winters Professorship in accorded this weekend to Economic Thought, and the members .of the College's Gilbert R. Livingston Terrace Council. The Terrace Professorship in Psychology. Council is a group of Union Appointments to these chairs alumni, parents, and friends are expected to be made this who, since the Council's founding ten years ago, have given some $2.56 million to the College's Annual Fund and another $7.25 million for en- doWillent and capital programs. The goal of The Campaign for Union is to raise $30 million in endowment, which will double the endowment the College had when the Campaign began, and another $8 million in operating support tbrough the Annual Fund. Thus far, Annual Fund commitments total $4.18 million, while $18.82 million has been pledged for endowment purposes. Endowment, which along with grants and gifts is Union's second principal source of in· come after tuition, had in recent years represented an in· creasingly smaller portion of the College, s annual budget, resulting in a constant upward pressure on tuition, Trustee Hanigan said. To reverse this trend, and to help sustain the quality of existing programs and facilities, he noted, the College seeks endowment support for professorships, scholarships, its Science and Engineering Center, and the Ramee Campus. The Campaign for Union, President Morris said, \is vital to the continuance of Union as a highly respected independent college. Union must have the courage tCJ retain its dedication to quality and to maintain the highe'st standards in its educational programs. \Our success,\ the president said, \is essential not only for Union's future, but for the future of all those independent institutions that look to our alumni for leader~hip.\ b. ct' \ was very o Je . 1ve. The conunittee was composed entirely of seniors. Any senior RA had to be ~pproved by Chip and Brion. Other members of the committee were approved by the Student Affairs Corn· mittee. · Doug Mahier, a member of the selection committee, told why he wanted to be part of the selection process and about his feelings on the committee. He wanted to add his input because he has been a HRA for two years and feels that the RA program is vital to dorm life, Doug said that, \although there is not a perfect example of a RA, cert.ain traits such as approachability, friendliness, listening ability, concern for others, responsibility and maturity are imperative.\ Doug went on to say that working with a group and getting the chance to interview people were valuable ex- periences. ''The process is highly competitive because of the high number of qualified candidates,\ concluded Doug. Beth Donaghue, who is an RA this year, cited the feeling of responsibility one gets in being an RA as one of the most rewarding aspects of the job. \Getting to know the people on your floor really well and the Contillued on page ~2

Page·2· OONOORDI1i1NSIS. A- iil.1lf .1981-. . , p J • • _, .,. • # I\ • • • • 0 • ' ' o • • • • - • ~ r • • ·• • • . ._ ., Becker Ha II during the transition from Old Gym Hall Nott Campus Architecture? Sarah Bradford Landau of New York University, one of the leading authorities on Victorian Gothic ~rchitecture in the U.S., will talk about the Union College Nott Memorial on Thursday, April 23, at Union. Her talk, entitled \The Nott Memorial: VictDrian Inter- pretation of a Classical Dream,\ will begin at& p.m. in Butterfield Hall, room 204, and the public is welcome to attend. Landau's lecture i~ the first of three presentations in the Walter C. Baker Series on the Architectural Heritage of Union College. This series is presented at Union by the Arts and \Civil Engineering departments and the Minerva Committee. Nationa,l Register of Historic Places. The Baker series on the ar- chitectural heritage of Union will continue May 27 with a day- long program in theN ott on cast and wrought iron structures. Speakers Will include Margo Gale, president ofthe Friends of Cast Iron, New York City, and an authority on the use of cast i~on in 19th century ar· chitecture; Charles Petersen of Philadelphia, who began.. the Historic American Building Survey when it was part of the National Park Service; and John I. Mesick_, of Mendel, Mesick, Cohen and Waite Architects, Albany. Mesick was in charge of preparing a 1973 histori~ structure report on the Nott Memorial. an understanding of the role of the creative arts in the development of civilization. The lectureship was created in 1975 by a gift of the late Mrs. Lois W. Baker, of New York, in memory of her husbaod. Walter Baker, a 1915 Union graduate, was a member of the College Board of Trustees from 1932 until his death in·1971 and was chairman of the board for 22 years. He was a retired vice president of the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company and was a noted art collector. This is the first time there has been a Baker series at- the College and the first time the Arts Department has joined with the Engineering Division to focus attention on the relationship of structural and preservation questions to the aesthetic values embodied in the College's historic ar· chitecture. Building Opened Not everyone gets a chance to ,preserve a 108-year•old historic building as a _way of saying thank you for a college education. But that's what Stanley R: Becker of East Hampton, N.Y., chose to do~ :Becker, a real estate developer and financier, is ·-a 1940 graduate of Union College. When the College announced the public start last year of a $3a million e.ndowment and operating support campaign, called The Campaign for Union, it also announced a $750,000 gift from Becker for the renovation and continued maintenance of a campus. building then known as Old Gym Hall. BUilt in 1873 as one of the first gymnasiums in the country, and subsequently used as a mus.eum and art ~allery, a dormitory, and an office buj.lding, Old Gym Hall is part of the College's Ramee campus. Union has the first architecturally designed college Clllllpus in the country, conceived by 19th century French architect-' Joseph Jacques Ramee. Saturday, i,n ceremonies marki11,g the first year of The Campaign for Uiiiori's publlc phase, the College officially dedicated the newly remodeled building as Stanley R. Becker Hall, permanent home of the College Admissions and Financial Aid offices. \I wanted to show my thanks to the College for all that Union meant to me,\ Becker says of his gift. \With small in- dependent colleges facing a challenge for survival in the 1980s, what better way could I assist Union than to make available a fUnctional building ~ousing the College . admissions staff and related offices, which will make an indelible first impression on a prospective student.\ Certainly Becker Hall will look different to, a future Union College student than it did to Becker more than forty years ago. Redesigned by The Saratoga Associates, under the direction of Richard Butler, the structure has undergone both interior and exterior renovations to ac- commodate the specific needs and fw1ctions expressed by the • Admissions Office. Johri G. Litynski, director of campus planning, indicated that most of the exterior work has been in keeping with the original plan, while the building;s interior has been reorganized to permit a. more attractive and efficient u5e of space. · Litynski calls the entire process \adaptive reuse.\ Exterior work included correcting sucJ:i physfcal defects as a sagging roof and deteriorating eaves .. A!S9, small box-like windows were replaced with la.rger panes of gla&S., . ''visually r~stqring wl.)at· :w~~/ orice a linear wiriaow a}Jecf on the building's south and east sides,'' Litynski says. Even colors, down to the buildingrs two green doors, have been faithfully reproduced. Landau, professor of fine arts at New York University's College of Arts and Sciences, is the leading authority on American victorian architects Edward T. ·and William A. Potter. Her book Edward T. and William A. Potter, American Victorian Architects,, was IJUblished by Garland in 1979. Edward T. Potter, architect of Union's sixteen-sided Nott Memorial, also designed the First Reformed Church of Schenectady and the· Mark Twain House in Hartford, Conn. The Potters were grandsons of Eliphalet Nott, longtime Union College president, for whom the famous campus landmark is named. In 1972, the Nott Memorial was placed on the This series will conclude October 10 when Professor Paul V. Turner of Stanford University, formerly of Schenectady, delivers the Walter C. Baker Lecture in Art and Civilization. Turner, a 1962 T:Tnion alumnus and leading scholar of campus architecture, will discuss the evolution of the College's \Ramee plan.\ Union has the first architecturally planned college campus in the country, conceived by 19th century French .architect Joseph Jacques Ramee. RA's Selected The interior of the masonry and wood,frame structure - once marked by narrow corridors and small, dark rooms - is now roomy and bright, with a large, com- fortable admissions reception area. One ~of the· building's original trusses ·has. ·been ex- posed. and skylights have been added. The Walter C. Baker Lectures are designed to bring distinguished scholars in arts and letters to Union to further And Things That Go Bump in the Operating System Gremlins! SANTA CRUZ, CA - Com- puter operator~ at the Univers~ty of California-Banta Cruz were mystified one day last February when the campus computers falled to respond to attempts to ''log in,'' or turn on, the system. Hours later, computer center personnel realized their security system had ·been cracked by four students who couldn't help bragging about their caper. The students began by ob- taining the master password for the system from an undisclosed \source then changed it, insuring that no one else could log into the computers. Then they set about inserting per- sonal and sometimes \ob- noxious\ notes into faculty and student files. Computer center employee Pam Wyman calls the incident ''more a case of curiosity than malicious mischief,'' but some university officials considered the prank quite serious when they found themselves cut off from registration, billing and ·budget infonnation stored in the computers. After the security failure was discovered, Wyman recalls, the center was shut down for three days' while computer experts tried \to figure out just what the students had done.\ The culprits were identified by the computer codes they had used . to gain entry into the machine. At least two of the four students involved used their own per- sonal codes, in addition to the master word, to log in. While the investigation continued, news of the incident began to get around .campus, mostly because the students couldn't keep their mouths shut about it. \When people penetrate 'the system,' \- Wyman explains, \they like to brag about it, so word got around.\ Because none of the students .showed c;riminal intent, Computer Center Director Alan Schlanger says no charges will ~ be filed against the students. ~ Instead,. the students have , agreed to explain the details of ~ their scheme to Schlanger so \5 that he may take steps against i:i2 it happening again. Schlanger _£ also has promised to teach the 0 students more about the o system, which was their reason if for tampering with it in the first place, they a.Q.mitted. Continued from page 1 challenge of coming up with activities\ also makes being an RA worthwhile, she added. Next year, as a HRA Beth hopes to \get to know more people in the dorm as well as the added challenge of being responsible for more people.\ J en Cornell is applying for RA for the first time. She feels being an RA will offer an ap- portwtity to do ''a lot of growing and make a lot of new friends.\ In conclusion, Chip Morris stated, \The RA position is a tough one that doesn't get enough credit. The people who are RA's deserve a lot of recognition.\ The female resident adVisors for the 1981-82 school year are as follows: Huda Abdalati, Bernadette Albanese, Cheryl Aylesworth, Karen Bader, Claire Marie Burchill (HRA), Carla Cogan, Jennifer Cornell, Megan Cwnmings-Saxton, Beth Brion Carrol and Chip Morris Donaghue (HRA), Tracy Hoffman, · Ellen Holtsman, Susan Marr, Beth Meyer, Jennifer Shaw, Mara beth Soltis (HRA); and Kim Vardakas. The alternates are (in alphabetical order) Sharon Gamins, Adrienne George, Robin Kilmartin, and Aimee Levine. The male Resident advisors will be·;Dennis Babcock, David Battaglis, Bob Beard,· Ed Berndt, Robert Brewster (HRA), Tony Carbone, James Carroll (HRA), Tim Cooley, Jacl~ Donaghue, Bimal Kumar, Tim Mara (HRA), Rodney McLain, Mark Mogul, Daniel O'Neill, George Paik, David Patalita, Edward Pletman, Timothy Smith, Arzell Steans (HRA), Robert Taylor, Barry Tils,. Peter Wool, and Jeffrey Warman. The male alternates (i:n alphabetical order y are John DiMeo, Steve Larsen, and Bob Pavacic. 1 Of the interior work, Litynski says, \We have ordered it, organized it, and improved its visual and aesthetic qualities.\ The building has also been made· energy efficient and accessible to the handicapped. In addition to his gift for the renovation and maintenance of Becker Hall, Becker had previously endowed two annual scholarships at Union. - the Stanley R. Becker Scholarship and the Charles . Vosburgh Memorial Scholarship. He is also a member of the College's Terrace Council, whose members annually give $1,000 or more to Union. Becker is a member of The Campaign for Union National Committee, a head agent for the College's 6oth Annual Fund, and an Alumni Council class representative. He is a charter member of the Union College Board of Advisors, as well. Tickets for all Parent's Wee-kend Activities on sale NOW . • 1·n Stu·dent Activities Com S] By[ On AI Eastern space sll down a· Base in that wa ficial in ding,tba strive tc in anap manner reusabl• The s the fligl one tha1 mixede the spa for the militar space.~ that m order t1 realistic To i technol1 that w~ War w Con B Amel beldth~ land o promis free an They- p the s democ1 thewo1 condon on the 1 policie: funda: philoso world' policie: The consis foreigJl the An Salvad States advisCJ repres: based warag The le startec being! sames thetur Yet, o group ficers democ ment, a state to the Europ read 1 intern; the S: Ameri Secret haig i: preser has tll Ameri Iftl' the s~ far do· Greec1 were 1 ami] ported hold tl the co of the Gree~ Washi their ·c anti 8 ~ views • The overto be att power impos peoplE

CONOORDll!JNBfS, April 1.6p 1.981 Page 3 Space Shuttle or War Shuttle By DAN ROSENFIELD On April 15, 1981, at 1:22 Eastern Standard Time, the space shuttle Columbia touched down .at. Andrews Air Force Base in California, in a manner that was described by an of ... ficial in Washington as a lan- ding tbat all airline pilots should strive to emulate. Thus ended, in an appropri~tely spectacular manner, the first flight of a. reusable space vehj.cl~\ The successful ·completion of the flight ushered in a new era, one that has been greeted with mixed emotions. Some fear that the space shuttle will be used for the deployment of strategic military weapons in outer space. There are certain things that must be understood in order to consider the situation realistically, like technology\ To illustrate the level of technology, consider one device that was used ln the Vietnam War was a device to track Commentary: enemy IIlovement. This device· consisted of a seismic detector, transmitter, battery and an- tenna all in one. neat package. This package lopks like a dirt clod that is about one inch square. This unit had a range of about 30D meters--quite a distance f()r the size. This, of course, is actually outdated technology .... the unit da:tes ,from about 1967. Another eJJ;ample is the electro!lic counter measure (ECM). SCM is a way of electronkally jamming enemy electronic detection systems. For example, ifa plane is flying through enemy territory, E:CM will be used to help protect the aircraft from any missiles. The system !!an work in the following manner: If a missile is firedattbe aircraft, the ECM sy~em on board the aircraft will ''jam\ the missile's navigation and-or tracking systems. ''rhis .is nothing new- early forms of ECM existed in World War II. However, today there are counterjamming sy~tems. ill use to jam the ECM from the plane. The plane will have countersystems to jam the counter of the enemy. Not to be outdone, the enemy on the ground will j~un the plane's counterto the counter. ThiS has been carried to the point that special planes are necessary to carry the ECM necessary to protect the other planes on the mission. The plane . used generally is a KC-130A. This is not a small plane-next time that you feel the ground shake and hear a deafening rumble look out the window, it's a KC- 130A. -- With this increase in technology there is an increase in the speed of . delivery of weapon systems. Whereas once it was felt that the Atlantic Ocean was sufficient protection from attack due to the distance between the United States and Europe, that is· no longer true. The distance is the same, bitt weapons can be moved much faster. .. The qpshot of the whole preceeding discussion is that it is no longer possible to arm after the war has started. The enemy would have long since set up housekeeping on the steps of the Capitol before industry could tool up for war. Therefore it is necessary for the United States to maintain a level of military preparedness suf- fiCient to defend itself on very short notice. The second thing that must be understood is the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States .in Exploration and Use of &uter Space, Including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies. This is a treaty that was signed on January 27, 1967. In this treaty, which both the US and the USSR are party to, is a paragraph that states: Parties to the treaty undertake .not to place In orbit around earth any object containing nuclear weapons or any other kinds of weapons of mass destruction, imstall such weapons on celestial bodies or station such weapons in outer .space In .any other manner. It is imp<Jrtant to understand that in treaty language when the word 'shall' is used, it means mllSt. In the above :paragraph it is stated 'un- dertake,' this means that the treaty is not mandatory, especially as one official in Washington pointed out, when thePe is evidence that the other side is not complying with the treaty. In other words, there is no law that specifically forbids the existence of weapons in outer space. It is merely in violation of the spirit of the treaty. Foreign Policy Dissent Knowing these things, it is possible to consider the issue of using the space shuttle for military operations. Quite simply, the United States cannot afford not to have the most advanced weapons possible deployed. The newest weapon systems are beam weapons of various types, deployed in outer space. They could destroy an enemy missile before it completes the boost stage. In other words, beam weapons. in outer space can neutralize the threat of nuclear missiles of all types (as well as aircraft and ships). The space shuttle makes these systems more feasible because of the reduced cost of placing the weapons in orbit. By PETER P·ERRIN Americans have traditionally held that the United States is the land of milk and honey, the promised land, the land of the free and the home of the brave. They perceive themselves to be the sacred guardians of democratic institutions around the world. Yet, in'.practlce tbeY condone hegemoni-C ·· . policies on the part of their government, policies which indicate a lack of fundamental democratic philosophy in the American world view. Furthermore, these_ policies are ineffectual. The most blatant in- consistency in American foreign policy in current news is the American support of the E:t Salvador regime. The United States is· providing military advisors and arms · to the repressive rightist· government based in San Salvador in their war against the revolutionaries. The leftist revolutionaries who started the civil war are now being joined by moderates, the same situation which preceeded the turn of events in Nicaragua. Yet, on February .24, when a group of fascist military of- ficers attempted to oust the democratic Spanish govern- ment, President Reagan issued a statement of nonpinterference, to the dismay of his Western European ·allies. His sta~ement read that the Putsch was an internal affair, to be settled by the Spanish people without American interference. Now, Secretary of State Alexander haig is trying to reassure the preserved democracy that -it has the fullest support of the American people. _ If this lesson is insufficient, the Spanish need only look as far down the Mediterranean as · Greece who as recently as 1974 were under the strict control of a military dictatorship sup- ported by Washington. Many hold that C.I.A. involvement in the coup put the ''Dictatorship of the Colonels\ in power. The Greek people remember Washington's maintenance of their oppressors and now hold anti-American, anti•N ATO views. The glaring imperialistic overtones in these cases cannot be attributed to a democratic power. A democracy would not impose a dictatorship among a. people. A democracy would have s11pported the cause of Spanish democracy , and resolutely condemned the coup attempt. A. policy of neutrality would be fitting in the El Salvadorian situation as the government is the antithesis of democracy, and,. no matter how noble the, cause, terrorist style warfare should never be sup- ported. The American reasoning behind tllese policies is simple: fascist dictators and other non- socialistic oppressive. mlers who rely on Washington for support are good friends. An argument may also be made that given the present economic situation, big business is clandestinely lobbying for a war. 'I'he United States is providing military advisors and weapons to San Salvador, as it had done in the early days of the tragic Vietnam conflict. (By the way, whr has the Republican party shelved its campaign promis~ to . stop peace time draft registration and throw out the Selective Service records7) One can reasonably conclude only that the United States is looking o11t for its self-interests, disregarding democratic ideals, when it interferes in this Cen- tral American banana republic. And it 'Will probably fail too. Nowhere are the imp periallstic .undertones so ob- vious as when one compares and contrasts the striking difference between the present administration's policies in El Salvador and in Poland. Poland is a bordering ally of the Soviet Union. Therefore, the Kremlin reasons that it has an interest in maintai.ping the integrity of its ideologically compatable and fr:iendly neighbor's govern- ment. The ·united States, in the spirit of cold war, is issuing forth belligerant threats that if the Soviets intervene in Poland, most drastic measures will be taken. Hence, even if Warsaw should ask Moscow for aid, the United States would retaliate. Moscow would protest that this is implying that the valid government in Poland is the union Solidarity. Still, the United States uses its \front yard\ argument in the El Salvador Question. Washington is obviously setting-up a Sphere of influence for herself and denying its Soviet rival one. In fact, neither the United States nor the Soviet Union has the right to monitor the internal affairs of any other nation through puppet governments or otherwise. So, the Russians should not intervene ih Poland. The will of the people should determine the eventual out- 30 YEARS AGO, WE PIONEERED--LOW FARES 10 EUROPE. TODAY WE'RE __ STILL AI IT. come of the crisis there. Similarly, the United States does not have the right to establish pro-American regimes around the world. Unfortunately, the United States has a history of establishing undemocratic governments and supporting oppressive regimes as in Iran which _ proved explosive and Greece where anti-American and even pro-Soviet sentiments are the result. The Reagan administration is continuing the previous regime's pro-Sadat policies. Carter used Sadat as a boost. to him as the biblical blessed peace maker and Reagan is supporting Sadat as it is politicly advisable in special interest circles enthused over Camp David. In fact, what few Americans do not know is that Sadat is an oppressive dictator who does not have his people's popular support, much like the Shah. Unfortunately, this is a continuation of the arms race, but there is no way around this. There is no .sure way of ascertaining that the \other side\ is complying with the treaty. The fact is that as long as there are conflicting ideologies in the world, there is the threat of one side conquering the other. And as long as one side has as its .goal the takeover of - the entire world, then the rest of A final note, the Khmer the world cannot afford to relax Rouge did not gain stature in their defenses. If they do relax, Cambodia until the United they may realize their mistake States got involved. When too late. The .space shuttle Democratic Kampuchea was probably will be used to deploy established, the worst blood defensive weapons. While not in bath since Nazi Germany took the spirit of the treaty, weapons place while the United States in space are a necessity. If they and the rest of the world did do and we don't . . . nothing about it. Luxembourg to New York return ticket, with confirmed reservation: ~249.50 (1!2 normal round trip fare) when purchased wtth standby fare. Free wine with dinner, cognac after. Prices effective through May 14, 1981, subject to change and governmentapproval. Purchase tickets in the U.S.A. See your travel agent or calllcelandair. In New York City 757-8585; elsewhere call 80()-555-1212 for the toll free number in your area. ICELANDAIR ONEWAY.. STAN·DBY IIY 10 LUXEMBOUR& NOW MORE THAN £VER YOUR~ BEST VALUE TO EUROPE. ,.,

P3:g~ 4 features .-------~------------------~--------------~ Blue Skies Over Union: ~-~~~~ - -~ -----·--- ----- ;>- 1 ' ----<--~---1 ..v ~. Wickets, Mallets, Juleps - ~ --\f.. llt - ~ -- Qf/ '1' l\tl) ','' I ~ I~ I I 'r.. : 1 I I I .I I I 1 I i!t : I ~@(PENuLT) 1' V 1 I I I 1 I ~ I ·I I I I I' ·I I I I I 1'1 I >j, I I I I I I I 1 I I' \'I I I I 'I· I 'I' I I I • lf'E\ I \, I \\ 1\ ~\. I I I ' I I I'; \\~~ \ I I I I I I I I I -V I ·I· I I I -t· I I I I -!. I I I I I ·I (V '1' i<QI I.( ROVE~) 1 I I I ·~~ ©\ \1'1'1@ I 1 t,- ;J/1 ·~ I : I I I!---------')-----~~~ \' I I / --~----oE----- /' )..8 YdS ,_ORDER OF PLAY :FOLLOWS AR~0\15 ByD.B001H Sometime during the 13th century a game evolved which · ... was to become the royal sport of the Kings and Queens of France, a sport which thence spread to other countries, and', in time, became a sport which even hoi .polloi were permitted to enjoy. This sport is still popular becauser unlike other warm weather sports such as softball, tennis, and volleyball, it is one which can be indulged in by the most physically unfit with little preparation, and it is . a game which lends itself to . double entendres and witty repartee. The game of which I speak is croquet, of course. Croquet is a game which . needs few implements for play. . All that is necessary is a large level area, a long-handled hard mallet for each player, two balls for each team, and six · wickets through which to hit the balls. The playing court itself. must be rectangular, of at least 35 yards long by 28 yards wide; or any· proportion larger in . proper ratio. The ''balk'' line., or inner playing line is 1 foot in from this outer boundary. The peg, which must be hit to win, is placed in the exact center of the .__ _______________________ ___,J court. The six wickets, which P ers.pec1i ves: Dean Kellett Speaks Up By DAVE IUPLAN Robert H. Kellett, Dean of Students, has reiterated that the decision to relocate Kappa Alpha Society next fall was based solely on tile Society's low utilization of the space allocated to it. In an interview Monday, Kellett also denled allegations that he is trying to rid Union of fraternities, contradicting charges that asserted that the Dean was simply using the Society's vtllnerability to initiate a cCJmprehensive campaign against Greek social organizations on campus!~ Dean Kellett feels that the moving of· KA. from Davidson donnitory to McKean House and the re-activating of an all- female co-op in Bronner House will be \in the best interest of the total stu<le11t body.\ The decision is predicated entirely on the number of members who live in the Society's on-campus facility (12 of 22 members). \I think what we have to ask ourselves is (what) effect (that this small a mumber has on) what (is done) upstairs In terms of bathroom facUlties being overcrowde.d (JU 1he other side of fire doors -you know, the effect on other people. You add the five-person suites and the bathroom faeillties and the under-utilization of kitchen and dining facilities, and ask yourself, 'In terms of the best Interests of the total student body, could that space be better llBed, and In a more balanced way, and is there alternate space for KA, based upon their demonstrated numbers over the years?' And there have been conversations with them In each of· the last three years about the fad that their numbers are too small for the space, and that that causes all sorts of problems to other students with other housing needs. That's really the only thing that this has to do with: strictly the question of serving the m;u:lmum number of students at Union College.\ The Dean professed a dedication to fraternities and the functions which he feels they perform. He states that he has no ambivalence toward Kappa Alpha, saying that they have been \no different than any other house . . . Anytime you get a collection of people, you get an incident every one, two, or three years where there are parties (and complaints from off campus because . of noise), but there's been no more of that with them than with anyone else.\ Kellett admits that he referred to Kappa Alpha .as \a bunch of 'space cadets,\' but insists that the comment was taken out of context. The comment was made to the President of KA \at a time when there were some allegations that there was some drug use going on in the house. I had- a conversation with him and I said to him that I didn't know whether or not it was true, but I hoped that if it was, that the house would take some actiQns and stop it. Simply one of those kind of things, that there had been some comments made, and that was the language that was used.\ Asked about a speech in which he reportedly extolled the virtues of so-called 'main- stream' fraternities, Kellett dismissed the ch~rge, saying that he did not remember having made the statement: \I saw that quote, and I don't know what it means.\ Dean Kellett also acknowledges having sent copies to the President of KA and the other fraternities of a magazine article which cited problems at Dartmouth College regarding alcohol abuse in fraternities there, and an at- tempt by the Dartmouth ad- lllinistration to ban fraternities altogether, He said that at that time, he felt the Inter- Fraternity Council might want to discuss whether or not there was a problem with alcohol in the Union fraternities. \But he adds, \I've sent articles to the fraternity presidents on how to manage a kitchen, and all that.\ Does the Dean feel that fraternities should be eliminated from Union? \Oh God, no!\ exclaimed Kellett. Intellectual Cabaret Presents a Discussion on Administrative Topics with President Morris Dave Wood Dean Kellett and Moderator Professor Huntley Monday, 9:00 p.m. Free Refreshments are twelve inches above the ground, are then placed in order as in the diagram below. A team consists of two players. Each player receives a long handled mallet which must be .of wood. Each team needs two balls. A point is scored by hitting a ball through,a wicket. To win the game, 26 points must be scored, 13 by each ball. Once a point is scored, the player receives an extra play. It must be remembered that it is often difficult to. score on the first hit, as the wicket is six feet from the starting point. If a player hits an opponent's ba:ll, they have the option of \striking'' their opponent's ball out of the range of scoring. They then gain two extra turns. If a player's ball is inadvertently struck out of bounds, it is placed back on the boundary line as close as possible to its point of exit. There is also a particular style to the play with the mallet. The mallet is held by the han- dle, the left hand above the right. To strike the ball,, the mallet is gracefully swung . between the legs,. and carried through to the height of the knees. Some skill must be enmloyed, as there is a different technique applied if the ball is in a crevice, or lf the balls are wet - from the dew. The proper attire for croquet is, for men, bright slacks and. bright shirts. Women shoUld wear dresses or skirts, as well as hats to avoid letting the sUn burn their delicate skin. Naturally everyone will want to indulge in mint juleps, the proper drink for croquet. A ' mint julep is an old Southern drink, and the following :tecipe is pne banded down to me by my illustrioUS croquet-playing Southern an- cestors. First clap the mint sprigs between the haJ:lds to loosen the vital oils~ Then, in a 12-ounce glass, alternate layers of shaved ice and a total of 6 or 7 mint leaves to fill the glass. Add one-half teaspoon sugar. Muddle thoroughly. Then fill the glass with bourbon. Add two dashes of Herbsaint . .Stir, then chill for one hour before ser- ving .. Decorate with· fresh mint leaves dusted with powdered sugar. So, with spring and warm weather finally here, get your balls, mallet and wickets out to the court, and play croquet. This Weekend at the ~ ' . ' Dutch Hollow·- ·.- ·. Pub Friday: Pizza & Beer Saturday: Be·ef & Brew DRINK SPECIALS Friday: All Amaretto Drinks 90c Saturday: .. All Vodka Drinks 90c FOR FOR THE FINEST IN HAIRCUTTING SINCE 1912 Corner of State St. & Erie Blvd. Downtown in the Old State Arcade The. WEDGEWAY ,BARBERS 5 Barbers/Stylists 377-1515 NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY I Jo Manf history Union Depart1 Washin Moderr Studies forAca D'Andr Jona! College special Ameri1 diplom gradua New Y from Fl stud en Schlesi to Uni~ CollegE theastE and Wi A fo Hays IE of the aut)lor IsoJ,attc Vale graduc High politic: is wor entitlE didate: tury.\ Just1 case sl presid1 twenU Just Cliff OJ profes: Mar 1977 gl Centr~ biolog: senior minati Onset Rat.\ Reb lesioni prepu de ten of the~ tissue estrad analy! cause: Bar gradu High scienc senior of 1 Satisf< Rosr cems mark deter& in adl analy Branc same creatE Cha gradu Schoo majoi thesil Sanct Pract Hicl t~eo~ tions sancti Na1 gradu Scho< sociol senio1 Adve1 Kor

OONOOBDIENBISI ApriZ 16, 198i. Page 5 feature Jonas, Robbins Awarded Chair Manfred Jonas, professor of history and chairman of •the Union College History Department, has been named Washington Irving Professor in Modern Literary and Historical Studies, College Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas J. D'Andrea announced. Jonas, a member of the Union College f~cUlty since 1963, iS a specialist in twentie,th-century American history and diplomatic history. He is a graduate of the City College of New York and holds a Ph.D. from Harvard, where he was a student of Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. Before coming to Union, }le taught at the City College . of New York, +'{o.r- theastem University, Harvard~ and Widener College. A former senior Fulbright- Hays lecturer at the University of the Sarrland, Jonas is the autnor . of such books as Isolatic)I$.m in America, 1935- = l • • • . . . 41, American Foreign Relations in the Twentieth Century, and Roosevelt and CburcbiD: Their Secret Wartime Correspon- dence. The Washington Irving Chair in Modern Liter~ry and Historical Studies was establisned by a commitment from Roger Thayer Stone., Union class of 1928, and Doris Zemurray Stone, who received an honorary Doctor of Letters degree from Union in 1973, to further scholarship in areas represented by the life of Washington Irving, These in· elude such disciplines as American literature, history, diplomacy, folklore, Spanish lit~rature, <Uld related studies. Daniel Robbins, chairman of the Arts Department, has been named as the May I.C. Baker Professor of the Arts. Robbins ~aid, \I'm very glad to be at Union, where integration of the liberal fli:tS and the sciences is a ~ ~ ' -· ' strong tradition. I want to en- courage all students, whether arts or engineering,·humanities or sciences, to explore the creative arts and their history. Regardless offuture career, the well-educated student should not leave college without a firm sense .of the principal values of civilization as embodied in the visual arts, in drama, and in music.'' The May I.C. Baker Professorship in the Arts was established by the College Board of Trustees according to the wishes of the late Walter C. Baker, '15. Mr. Baker was a trustee from 1932 until his death in 1971 and was chairman of the board for 22 years. Manfred Jonas is professor of history and chairman of the History Department Spring Shape Up Thesis Tidbits By JUDI LEE CHERVENAK must take control of what we eat and how we exercise. The sooner we start, the better. jogging are all great ways to tone up and have £110. If you don't enjoy running or jogging, try speedwalking. Speed- walking is becoming in- creasingly more popular .for several reason$. It is less taxing on muscles than is numing or jogging. If you do not like tennis for one reason or another or do not feel confident enough in your ability t-o hit the ball over the net. and into your own court (not the court on the left), don't despair I Try racquetball or paddle tennis. These games are challenging and fun in their own right, but do not require the same type of skills as tennis. I know this well. After six years of tennis lessons and several instructors, my last instructor recommended that I try another sport. I've been a racquetball fan ever since. Valerie J. Juster, a 1977 graduate of Baldwin Senior High School, and a senior political science-history ma.jor, is working on a senior thesis entitled \Third Party Can- didates in the Twentieth Cen- tury.\ . Juster's research concerns case studies, o.£ tnre.e ~d.gaity [.; presidential campaigns :m' the ~ twentieth century. Juster's thesis advisor is Clifford Brown, associate professor of political science. Mary-Catherine Rehder, a 1977 graduate of Hoosic Valley Central High School, and a biology maj()r is working on a senior thesis entitled \Deter- mination and Analysis of the Onset of Puberty in the Female Rat.\ Rehder's .research concerns lesioning· the hypothalrru.is in prepubertal female rats to determine the effect and timing of the onset of puberty. Through tissue analysis and luteni.z'ing, estradiol and prolact~. assay analysis,Rehder is studying the causes of the onset of puberty. Barry· R()senberg, . a . 1977 graduate of Great Neck No1th High School, and a political science major, is working on a senior thesis entitled \Freedom of Information Act: A Satisfactory Alternative?\ Rosenberg's research con~ cems an examination of land- mark FOIA cases in order to determine the court's attitudes in administeri.rig the law and analyzing the Executive Branch's manipulation of the same information system they created. Charles R. Hicks, a 1977 graduate of Montpelier High School, and a political science major, is working on a senior thesis entitled ''Economic Sanctions in Theory and Practice.\ Hicks' research concerns the theory behind economic sanc- tions and the applicability of sanctions in the real world. Nanette Koryn, a 1977 graduate of Scarsdale High School, and a psychology- sociology major, is working on a senior thesis entitled \Sex in Advertising.\ Koryn's research concerns the effectiveness of sex in ad- vertising. This is a good time to begin doing all we should be doing concerning fitness and care. I'm by no means. advocating a crash shape-up-for-summer program but realizing that we Exercising does not have to be dull and monotonous. There is some type of exercise for everyone to enjoy. Dancing, swimming, tennis, running, Samuel Sharp, . a 1977 graduate of Clarkstown Senior High School North, and a political science major, is working on a senior thesis~ relating to the Cuban Missile< Kaplan tQ Speak. C :;.c· );'U)-1$. ~ ·.$: .. -·~ ;p ~~·d ~l -. -~' ~. .• ~\'!; : ~ • ; - • .j - ' Sharp's research concerns the official American per- ception of the Soviet Union during three periods: one month prior to the Cuban missile crisis; during the Cuban missile crisis; and one month after the Cuban missile crisis. (i.e. what were our perceptions of Soviet · motives in- ternationally, Berlin, 'Test Ban, Cuba, ~tc., and what were our percElptions of Soviet Expan- sionism.~. · . - Sharp's thesis advisor is Charles Gati, professor of political science. ilene M. Kaplan, assistant professor of sociology and associate dean of faculty at Union College, will discuss \Family Life and Community Planning: Social Factors of the Design Process\ on Tuesday, Apri121, at the College. Her talk will begin at 4: 30 p.m. in the Social Sciences , auditorium (room 016) and the public is welcome. Kaplan's presentation is the third and final lecture in the 1980-81 Union College Faculty Colloquituh series. The series provides a forum for members of the College community to discuss their work. · Kaplan is a graduate of Cornell University. She received her master of arts degree and her doctorate in sociology from Princeton University, and her areas of special interest include the sociology of the family, urban sociology, ·and social psychology. A member of the Uni()n College faculty since 1978, Kaplan was recently appointed associate dean of faculty. Features Writers Needed Contact Judi at 6475 ATTENTION SCI-ENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS! The Air Forte has openings for young men and women majoring in selected science and engineering fields. Like Aeronautical, Aerospace, · General and Electrical Engineering. Mathematics, Physics and Com· puler Technology. · To help prepare for one of. these, Air Force ROTC offers two and four·year programs of study which will defray some of your college costs. .. After completion of the AFROTC requirement. and upon your grad· · wation, you'll be commissioned an officer in the Air Force. Then comes responsibility·. experience in your specialty with some of the best peo ple and facilities in the world, and a mission with a purpose. Yo~'ll get excellent starting salary, medical and dental care, 30 days of paid va· cation beginning your first year. and more. Look into the Air Force ROTC program right away. See what's In it for you. See how you can serve your country in return. You'll be glad you put your major to work on a job that really counts. \capt Doug Kewer, RPI Armory Rm 317 Phone: 270-6236 HOTC Gateway to a great way of life. There are so many different ways to exercise that there is really no excuse not to. Diet Idea Buy several flavors of D- ZERTA to keep on hand for the warmer weather. r:n a clear cup, alternate flavors (letting each flavor harden before adding the next flavor.) Top with fresh fruit (strawberries, melon balls, banana slices, etc.) · This creates an appealing treat for less than 25 calories.

Page 6 OONOOBDIENBIS. Ap~Z 16 1 ,l.981 Editorials Last week, Thursday, Aprtl 4, the Finance Committee called a meeting of all student activity leaders to discuss budgeting tor next year. Jim Fisher, Vice President for Finance of the Student Forum, informed the students present that many of their dubs will be required to request a payment of dues from their members. . Student Forum is not raising the Student Activity Fee .. Despite ever-present inflation and an increase in the number of student organizations asking for money, the ,Student Forum has decided to keep the $33 per term activity fee. The only way that this could be done wowd be with revenue to cover new costs coming from a previously untapped source, This is where the dues begin to play a role. By requesting that many groups on campus charge what are essentially membership fees, the Student Forum does not in any way wish that organizations will nave to dissolve because of lack of interest. In fact, quite the opposite result can be expected. By asking students to make a tangible, monetary commitment to a club, the club wlll gain members that are genuinely interested. This will help to reduce unnecessary spending and provide more accurate budgeting. The economics of the whole situation is, as always, the main factor. Because of the increased costs across the board, groups need and are asking for more money from year to year. There is the added consideration that new groups are being formed which are requesting monies that the Forum did not an- ticipate. Suffice to say there exists a lot of \outgo\ and a limited amount of ''income.\ The Finance Committee has made a distinction between which groups on campus will or will not pay dues. The distinction is a simple one: groups that provide service to the entire Union community do not have to ask their members for dues whereas groups that exist \only for the purposes of tneir immediate membership,'' in the words of Mr. Fisher, must include income from membership dues on their proposed budgetsfor next year. OONOORDIENSTS cannot help but be somewhat biased in its view of the situation; we will not have to .pay dues. We do, however, support the Forum and Finance Committee in that we feel that thereasons for membership dues are sound. The dues will be providing groups with stronger memberships and will reduce the possibility of unnecessary monetary waste. The dues are also redistributing the cost for many of the \self-interest'' groups and placing the responsibility on those individuals who wil:l benefit the most from the groups' activities. We feel that the advantages of the new policy outweigh the disad- vantages. Frank Feminism OONOORDIENSlB plaud the students in- would like to commend the volved, on a job well done, Women's Week Committee and hope that the for the enthusiasm and remaining week's ac- organization that they tivities will be well at- have exhibited in the past tended. week. As demonstrated On the same subject of this week, women cannot Women's Weekf we would be considered a minority like to acknowledge the on this campus, but a first issue of Anima, which viable, visible and was 4 4 born •' this past motivating force. Since weekend. The editor's this is evident, it becomes decision to produce a imperative for the genders newspaper that would to try to Wlderstand one further the development of another better. The in· Union College as a formation provided during 4 'completely integrated Women's Week helps to community\ is a valid and clarify issues and inform perfectly respectable one. responsibility as a campus publication to be sensitive '\'\'''''\'~'w?: to the problem of reverse discrimination, and take the feelings of the entire campus into account. Some men might feel \left out\ by not 44 having a newspaper of their own.\ If the women behind Anima truly believe in their ideals of equality, then they must consider at all times the male portion of the campus. We have total confidence in their ability to deal with this situation and we admire their dedication and people, making un· The newspaper itself is a perseverance. de r s t an din g an d work to be proud of, in that ___________ .....,.....,-.;;,;;,;;;;,;;,;;;;;.;..._...., __ ...,. cooperation between men it· disseminates in- and women easier. formation, and provides In order for this campus an outlet for different · to provide the best possible types of creative writing. learning environment, ·A lot of hard work went: <irlltlfJlrbirttsis campus members should into the printing of the • . . . . try to get along as best paper, and the final· Editor~m~~ef PaulGrossman,Raclleli. Mandel they can. This includes all product is the testimony to! ~::O~f:t:E:/t~: Dcm~~~~~fe~ types of relationships,~. that fact. -~ News Editor J()eMaguire especially those between Assistant News Editor Naomi Blank the students. Much of the Although we heartily Features Editors Dan Booth, JudiChervenak growth and maturing that endorse the editorial Arts&CulturesEditors BobFox, occurs while attending statement outlined in the Oemeh.\aPqntisakos Union Campus occurs issue, we can~t help but CampusPageEditors Marja:Manfredonia, Charis Richards within the framework of have a reservation about Sports Editors Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott male-female relation- the method chosen to try Women'sSportsEditor CocyLewkowicz· ships. After all, many of us and integrate the campus., ·Photo Editor , Mindy Broser were told during orien- Anima was created by 1 Sports Photo Editor Steve Lerner tation that a large portion women, supposedly about , Busine~s ~ditor .Jeff Scardino of the learning at Union women, and for the most' SubscriJ?tiOns Ellen Berger Cartooni st Lisa Snyder College goes on outside of part, women will read it. · ·s· taff Jennifer Amler, Steve Auerbach, Chris Phelan, the classroom. If this is We feel that a newspaper: Dan Rosen1ield, Dan Ryan, Cindy Tenner true, these relationships so oriented in one direction Photo Staff Kent .Avery, A.J. D' AngeJo, Nol'IIlail Pilaster take on an incredible might not only serve to· . . importance. The activities unify the women on· CONCORDI~NSIS is published. every Thursday by the student sponsored by the women's campus and make them body of Un~on ~llege •. Carnegie Hall, Schene~tadr, New York Week Committee, and the more visible but un- 12308; Publications Off1ce: Susquehanna Pubhcabons, Inc., 11 ' Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151; Entered in Women's Network, are fortunately also alienate the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Sllbscription making a very valuable some men. · ·rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywltere in the contribution to the im· ,United States. provement of quality of We would like to remind i. · . - b ·.b ~..... c n p 8 · (CPS) life on campus in this the editors and women Concordiensis su scr1 es to •. ue . o ege ress · ervt~e · . respect. Again, we ap· involved that it is their,--~-----------------~ ~-= Pa On1 Methe the u Chape band< Conce1 preser music: collegt Pat guitar imme1 \want any on• do st1 partie: while then a MiamJ ironic; hinlse: as as The break met C idol 1 equal Methe influe1 positi( of Mu be can: in thE .. Burt01 his gJ QuintE QuintE Co Rob: return anothE perfo1 talent irrepr music< highly their bluegr and W They 1 NeJ 26th, junct provi who well- time, indul: feel~ time • a we Dyst1 ThE FLU · Ratl 24H N 6 fo

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS. April 16, 1981 Editorials Union Dues Last week, Thursday, Apr114, the Finance Committee called a meeting of all student activity leaders to discuss budgeting for next year. Jim Fisher, Vice President for Finance of the Student Forum, in:formed the students present that many of their clubs will be required to request a payment of dues from their members. Student Forum is not raising the Student Activity Fee. Despite ever-present inflation and an increase in the number of student organizations asking for money, the Student Forum has decided to keep the $33 per term activity fe.e. The only way that this could be done would be with revenue to cover new costs coming from a previously untapped source. This is where the dues begin to play a role. By requesting that many groups on campus charge what are essentially membership fees, the Student Forum does not in any way wish that organizations will have to dissolve because of lack of interest. In fact, quite the opposite result can be expected. By asking students to make a tangible, monetary commitment to a club, the club will gain members that are genuinely interested. This will help to reduce unnecessary spending and provide more accurate budgeting. The economics of the whole situation is, as always, the main factor. Because of the increased costs across the board, groups need and are asking for more money from year to year. There is the added consideration that new groups are being formed which are requesting monies that the Forum did not an- ticipate. Suffice to say there exists a lot of \outgo\ and a limited amount of ·'income.\ The Finance Committee has made a distinction between which groups on campus will or will not pay dues. The distinction is a simple one: groups that provide service to the entire Union community do not have to ask their members for dues whereas groups that exist • 'only for the purposes of their immediate membership,\ in the words of Mr. Fisher, must include income from membership dues on their proposed budgets for next year. CONCORDIENSIS cannot help but be somewhat biased in its view of the situation; we will not have to pay dues. We do, however, support the Forum and Finance Committee in that we feel that the reasons for membership dues are sound. The dues will be providing groups with stronger memberships and will reduce the possibility of unnecessary monetary waste. The dues are also redistributing the cost for many of the \self-interest'' groups and placing the responsibility on those individuals who will benefit the most from the groups' activities. We feel that the advantages of the new policy outweigh the disad- vantages. Frank Feminism Jean P,e,I:Jetie,re · Defended God is a difficult subject to moderate. There will always be . people who agree and disagree with anything but a vague handling of God. Regarding your letter to the Editors of Concordieosis on 3-5-81, ob- viously you disagreed with Intellectual Cabaret's handling of the topic. Prof. Jean Pelletlere was our chosen moderator for ''The Existence of God\ because of · her excellent performance during the mock Reagan-Carter debate. held last fall; she did ttot disappoint us. There were well over one hundred people stuffed into the Cabaret Room. Most of them had something to say. · Cabaret nights only last two and a half hours. The debate over God has been going on for over two and a half hours. The debate over God has been going on for uver two and a half millenniums. It can't be helped that not everyone will be able to say all they want to say on every .subject. Prof. Pelletiere kept the topics moving, tried to clarify people's viewpoints, and prevented anyone from getting long-winded. In other words. she .did what a moderator is supposed to do. We are glad that Y<ltl felt · strongly about the Intelleetual Cabaret. It means that something was said there that made you think. This .is wbat Intellectual Cabaret is. all about. We are sorry, however, . that your feelings were so negative. · Sincerely, Scott Adams t84 Nancy Velardi 1a2 · Acting Co-Chair, Union College Intellectual Cabaret. Decision to Scrap Survey Questioned CONCORDIENSIS plaud the students in- responsibility as a campus would like to commend the valved, on a job well done, publication to be sensitive · Women's Week Committee and hope that the to the problem of reverse for the enthusiasm and remaining week's ac- discrimination, and take organization that they tivities will be well at- the feelings of the entire have exhibited in the past tended. campus into account. week. As demonstrated On the same subject of Some men might feel ''left this week, women cannot Women's Week, we would out\ by not .. having a be considered a minority like to acknowledge the newspaper of their own.\ on this campus, but a first issue of Anima, which If the women behind viable, visible and was \born\ this past Anima truly believe in motivating force. Since weekend. The editor's their ideals of equality, this is evident, it becomes decision to produce a then they must consider at imperative for the genders newspaper that would all times the male portion To the Editors: to try to understand one further the development of of the campus. We have another better. The in· Union College as a total confidence in their I was really disappointed to formation provided during \completely integrated ability to deal with this read in last week's Con- Women's Week helps to community\ is a valid and situation and we admire cordiensis that the Student inf Affairs Council (SAC) has ef- clarify issues and orm perfectly respectable one. their dedication and fectively scrubbed its plans to people, making un- The newspaper itself is a perseverance. issue a survey that would have de r s tanding and work to be proud of, in that ,_ __________ .=;::::::::=:=:=:::::.:::=::.;, cooperation between men it disseminates in· ~ and women easier. formation, and provides In order for this campus an outlet for different to provide the best possible types of creative writing. learning environment, · A lot of hard work went (J!vnrorbirnsis campus members should into the printing of the · . . . try to get along as best paper, and the final · Editor~-m-Ch~ef i in 1 d all d t . th t t' t . Managmg Editor they can. Th s c u es pro uc IS e es 1mony o Associate Editor types of relationships, that fact. NewsEditor especially those between Assistant News Editor the students. Much of the Although we heartily FeaturesEditors growth and maturing that endorse the editorial Arts &Cultures Editors occurs while attending statement outlined in the Union Campus occurs issue~ we can't help but CampusPageEd.itors within the framework of have a reservation about SportsEditors male-female relation· the method chosen to try Women'sSportsEditor ships. After all, many of us and integrate the campus. 1 .Photo Editor were told during orien- Anima was created by ! Sports Photo Editor tation that a large portion women supposedly about Business Editor PaulGrossman, Rachel I. Mandel Julie Isgro Donna Creeley Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Dan Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pqntisakos Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner Jeff Scardino Ellen Berger of the learning at Union women: and for the most. Subscri~tions College goes on outside of part, women will read it. ~~f~oomst the classroom. If this is We feel that a newspaper true, these relationships so oriented in one direction Photo Staff take on an incredible might not only serve to importance. The activities unify the women on sponsored by the Women's campus and make them Week Committee, and the more visible, but un- Women's Network, are fortunately also alienate Lisa Snyder Jennifer Amler, Steve Auerbach, Chris Phelan, Dan Rosenfield, Dan Ryan, Cindy Tenner Kent Avery, A.J. D'Angelo, Norman Pflaster some men. CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. aet'im= on~ampU$ aloohol use policy~ . .. . A~ first glance, this deelsiQn might seem pretty favorable. Wh() wants a gov.¢rnanee body like th_e SAC telfing individual students how much booze they can consume? But limiting students' liquor consumption was never the real purpose of the proposed survey. Rather, the survey was in· tended to give students an opportunity to participate in making a decision and for- mulating a policy that would affect them. ' The desirability of a formal policy to replace the present ad- hoc arrangement that now exists regarding alcohol use was suggested by another ar- ticle in your April 9 issue,. \Kappa Alpha-Evicted.\ In it, the reporter questioned if Dean of Students. Robert H. Kellett, by forcing the Pub and Skellar to eliminate Tuesday night drink specials, was trying to bring about the eventual elimination of fraternities and, . presumably, the social events they sponsor where beef and liquor are served. Were there a written code of conduct regarding these matters~ such questions wouldn 1 t have to be raised. The extent .of administrators' authority in this. area would have·been deliniated-in a policy that had solicited student viewpoints. Unfortunately, such a . possibility no longer seems to exist. lVbat the SAC now plans to do instead of issuing a sur- vey--preparing a brochure telling students that too much beer or booze will make you sick-is ·nothing more than . a half-hearted cop-out. . Jim Davis Class nf '81 . Students Against the Draft - SAD To the Editor: There must be a halt regarding the persiStant efforts • by the Selective Service System in its \Big Brother\- move to collect information on private citizens. This collection of in· formation is a direct violation of the Buckley Ammendment and an invasion of privacy under the United states Constitution and · the Bill of Rights. We~ the_ members o.f Students Against the Draft (SAD) see this as a return to the previous abuses by the FBI and . the CIA, only recently repvdiated. Of specifie concern to an studen~ are the attempts to gAin ac{}ess to academic and school fil'eS, to wbiell. even some university officials do,not have access. Yet;- the $elective Service, ·· ·· em, irF'elear abuse of ·its a , is seeking to gain access to these confidential files in . order to compile a national lWting for students to go to war for them. Unlike other countries (the bad guys), the government of the United States (that's us the good guys! n does . not traditionally go around · compiling lists of its citizens to be rounded up. ,, · We, SAD, agree with the National Rifle Association, that any type of registration . is unlawful. To .put it simply, the N.R.A. is afraid of losing. their guns, we are afraid of losing · ourselves (but chances are we are going to go before the guns) .. Already some states such as California ( Ro.nnies' Homeland) are waging a.n ongoing battle for TRUTH, JUSTICE AND THE AMERICAN WAY. making a very valuable contribution to the im· provement of quality of life on campus in this respect. Again we an- We would like to remind. . the editors and women Concordiensis subscribes to lhe College Press Service (CPS). Smces~B involved that it is their -------------------------~~ __________ ,... p~ On' MethE the t. Chape band 1 Co nee prese1 music colleg Pat guitar imine \Wa!'t1 any on do st partie while then~ Miam ironic himse as a~ The break met< idol equal MethE influe: positic of Mt be can in the ·surto: his g Quintc Quintc Cc Rob returr anothc perfo talen1 irrep1 music highly their blueg1 and Vi They Ne 26th, junct provi who well· time, indul feel! time a w, DystJ Thl FLH Rat 24 H 6 fc

'-t • .. Page 7 ~rts & Culture Pat Metheny Comes to Union On Tuesday, Apri121, the Pat Metheny Group will :perform at the Union College Memorial Chapel .. The arrival of this jaz;~: band continues the trend of the Concert Corninittees's efforts to present a diversified array of musical professionals to -the college cominunity. Pat Metheny picked up the guitar at the age of 14 and immediately decided that he \wanted a sound clifferent from anyone else's\. lie proceeded to do st~o work. shows, and parti-cipate in nightClub acts while .still in high schooL He then attended the University of Miami on a -full scholarship and ironically became a teacher himself after mily one ~emester as a student. pe~ceived Metheny's skills and stimulated tne production of Metheny's first album, \Bright Size Life\. Pat pr_o<;eeded to enligb.ten the Jazz world with the production of his second album, ''Watercolors\ released in 1977, He continued his mastery of the 12-string guitar while being joined on the album by Eberl}ard Weberm, Dan Got• tlieb, and Lyle Mays. The latter two remain vi:'tal parts of Metheny's present group. The album remained on the charts for .30 weeks and received ex- tensive airplay across the nation. The album most im- ·portingly established the Pat Metheny Group as a major jazz band and stimulated the bOoking of tours around the w()rld with such notables as Jean~Luc Ponty, Stanley Clarke,. Phoebe Snow; and-- Ronnie Laws. During the long tour, they stopped briefly to record the third Metheny disk entitled \Pat Metheny Group\. Most importingly, the third album was flooeded with in- The jazz performer's .first big break c3JD.e in April of 1973. He met Gary Bu.rton,. al:ways an idol of Pat·~s. Burton was equally impressed with Metheny's talent and used his influence to get Pat a faculty position at the Berklee Colleg~ of Music in Boston. Metheny became the youngest instructor in the history of the school. - novative ideas and creations. ·Burton asked Metheny to join his group, the Gary Burton Quintet. The producer of the Quintet's albums irrunediately Coffee-house: Robin and Linda Williams return to Union College for another exciting coffeehouse performance. This veJ,\y talented duo possess an irrepressible energy. Their musical style is unique and· highly enjoyable. They take their sound· from traditional bluegrass, Old Time, Country and Western, and Blues tunes. They perform some traditional Metheny had finally fully established himself as a leading jazz performer. After another tour including some 300 concert tunes as well as original songs. -. So far Robin. and Linda have recorded four albums, and a fifth is to be released this fall. _ This not-to-be-missed per-\ fonnance is tomorrow night, Friday, April· 17 beginning at 8:30pm in the Cabaret Room of Carnegie Hall. Pay only one dollar, and you will be treated to some great music, fresh donuts and a variety of exotic coffees! ~~--~------------ Spring Fling: Next weekend, April 25th & 26th, The Rathskellar, in con~ junction with Budweiser Inc. is providing an outlet for students who would like to partake in well-known activities. This time, however, any student indulging in such activitie~ can feel good in knowing that their time and money will be spent on a worthy eause: Muscular Dystrophy. The director·of the \SPRING FLING\ weekend is Brian AT THE RAt SPRING FLING WEEKEND · RathskeUar & Budweiser Present: 24 Hour Pinball' Marathon to benefit Muscular Dystrophy April25-26 6:00a.m.- 6:oop.m. See above article for mo~e- -information CottereU, manager of the Skellar. There will be a 24 hour pinball marathon with each and every quarter eaten by the , \Black Knight\ et. al. going to M.D. All oftlle draft beer will be . sold at regular prices with lt2 the intake going to M.D. WRUC is organizing a Dance- A- Thon with proceedS going to, you guessedit, M.D. Individuals must get sponsors to make donations. Sponsor cards are available at the Rat. At 4:00a.m., the Skellar will ptovide a breakfast special at nominal cost. You can ·guess where the proeeeds will go. (M.D.) . --t Brunch will be available later in the day, as will beer for M.D. in the· afternoon. · Probably- the most exciting aspect of the weekend is the \World Cup of Rathskellar Games\. Contestants will play all of the games in the Skellar and the highest aggregate scores will receive trophies, prizes and other good stuff. The whole point is to keep the machines going for Muscular Dystrophy! A detailed schedule for \SPRING FLING\ will be printed in next week's CONN CORDIENSIS. Watch for details! dates, Pat Metheny released his first solo album entitled \New Chautauqua\ an effort that quickly portrayed Pat's ver- satility on the acoustic, electric, and. 15-string harp guitar, in addition to his work on the electric bass. - Perhaps the biggest break for Metheny came in 1979 when artist Joni Mitchell asked Pat to join her backup band for Joni's famous_ \Shado_ws & Light Tour\. The album, featuring the work of many outstanding musicians, was later released in 1980. Metheny _ released his fifth album for ECM shortly before that tour with Mitchell. It was entitled ''American Garage\ and. was greeted favorably by the public and subsequently nominated for a Grammy Award in 1981. Since that highlight, Metheny has un- believably released two albums entitled \80-81\ and \As Falls Witchita, So Falls Witchita · Falls\. Pat Metheny's seven album releases in just five years in- dicates his enthusiastic attitude towards his profession. If Metheny can deliver half of that energy in his performance here at Union, it will be a jazz show worth attending. Jazz guitarist Pat Metheny Tickets on Sale Tomorrow! For the Mountebank's production of Noah Is a Righteous Atan and a Damned Good Carpenter Too (or Noah's Nott) See Mrs. Marra in Student Activities or come to the Nott Memori~l Box Office Smythe Deprived A very long tinie ago, in the days when Smythe tradition was just a way of life for a young man named Eustas, there existed a kangaroo named Lucifer. Lucifer was a freewheeling beast. He lived high on the hog, so to speak. He lived as he wanted to live, eating four meals a day and hopping where ever he pleased, until one day disaster struck. Lucifer was mistaken for-of all things-a dog, and was placed in the Smytheville dog pound. He didn't stay long though, only until that historic day when Eustas P. decided that his home was too lonely. Smythe ven- tured to the Smytheville dog pound to find himself a com- panion. His initial intention was to bring home a cute little puppy but upon seeing Lu,dfer, he was overwhelmed by the uniqueness of this dog. (Lucifer kept the fact that he was really a kanga!:_oo a secret.) So Eustas P. Smythe and Lucifer the puppy, wbich was in actuality afull grownkangai.\''o moved in together in Smythe's humble abode in the Wahoo V~lley. Lucifer quickly reverted to his old ways; he would eat as much food as he could get, snacking between meals on things like bacon grease and whatever else he could find in Smythe's garbage pail. But Eustas was a patient man, he spent hours and hours trying to train Lucifer in the ways of the world. You see, Smythe preferred that Lucifer go to the bathroom outside or at least on newspaper, but Lucifer's habit wasto excrete at will, often in mid~hop. In spite . of his bad habits, Eustas loved Lucifer dearly, and treated him well. However, Smythe's landlord, Woody Davis, was not so fond of the kangaroo. He pointed out that the fine print of the rental agreement specificany stated that no kangaroos would be allowed on the premises. Smythe contested, holding that Lucifer was a harmless puppy, but to no avail. You've got to get up pretty early in the morning to fool Woody Davis. Smythe bad no choice but to concur; ru1es are rules you know. E ustas was heartbroken. True, his house was a bit cleaner, but there was a void in his life, an empty void. That void was never filled in quite the same way, and to this day, just the thought of that loveable little devil evokes fond memories in the hearts of Smythies everywhere. GONG SHOW Cabaret will present is 2nd annual Gong Show during the 8th week Qf Spring term. If you have a crazy or serious talent, show 11p at auditions on Tuesday night, April 23 at 7 p.m. in the Cabaret Room. For more info., · call Betsy at 382-9303. Plant a Seed for your Future at SUN:Y·BINGHAMTON Sum111er Session 1981 Term I ~ June 1·26 Term :II - July 6aAugust 14 Unde.rgradua tu and CmdLwk ( :(JUI'st's Featuru Small Classt~s. Special Intensivt! \VurkshDps Flt!Xible Times and Scht!duh!::-;, Day and Evening Write or Call for Catalo~: Summer Session. SUNY-Binghamton Binghamton. NY 13901 (607) 798-2161

OONOORDIENSIS~ April 18} 1981 Page 7 ~rts & Culture '. .. . ·. . ' .. . ' : ' ·. ~ : _: ' . . : ·. : . - ' ·. Pat Metheny Co111.es to Union On Tuesday, April21, the Pat Metheny Group will perform at the Union College Memorial Cnapel. The arrival of this jazz band continues the trend of the Concert Committees's efforts to present a diversified array of musical professionals to - the college community. Pat Metheny picked Mp the guitar at the age of 14 and immediately decided that he \Wanted a sound different from anyone else's\. He proceeded to do stu,dio work, shows, and participate in nightclub acts while still in high school. He then attended the University of Miami on a full scholarship and ironically became a teacher himself after only one semester as a student. The jazz performer's first big break came in April of 1973. He met Gary Burton, always an idol of Pat's. Burton was equally impressed with Metheny's talent and used his influence to get Pat a faculty position at the Berklee College of Music in Boston. Metheny became the youngest instructor in the history of the school. • Burton asked Metheny to join his group, the Gary Burton Quintet. The producer of the Quintet's albwns immediately Coffeehouse: Robin and Linda Williams return to Union College for another exciting coffeehouse performance. This very talented duo possess an irrepressible energy. Their musical style is unique and highly enjoyable. They take their sound from traditional bluegrass, Old Time, Country and Western, and Blues tunes. They perform some traditional perceived Metheny's skills and stimulated the production of Metheny's first albmn, \Bright Size Life\. Pat proceeded to enlighten the Jazz worM with the production of his second album, ''Watercolors'', released in 1977. He continued his mastery of the 12-string guitar while being joined on the album by Eberhard Weberm, Dan Got- tlieb, and Lyle Mays. The latter two remain vital parts ·of Metheny's present group. The album remained on the charts for 30 weeks and received ex- tensive airplay across the nation. The album most im- portingly established the Pat Metheny Group as a major jazz band and stimulated the booking of tours around the world with such notables as Jean-Luc Ponty, Stanley Clarke, Phoebe Snow, and Ronnie Laws. During the long tour, they stopped briefly to record the third Metheny disk entitled \Pat Metheny Group\. Most importingly, the third album was flooeded with in- novative ideas and creations. Metheny had finally fully established himself as a leading jazz performer. After another tour including some 300 concert tunes as well as original songs. So far Robin and Linda have recorded four albums, and a fifth is to be released this fall. This not-to-be-missed per- formance is tomorrow night, Friday, April 17 beginning at 8:30pm in the Cabaret Room of Carnegie Hall. Pay only one dollar, and you will be treated to some great music, fresh donuts and a variety of exotic coffees! Spring Fling: Next weekend, April 25th & 26th, The Rathskellar, in con- junction with Budweiser Inc. is providing an outlet for students who would like to partake in well-known activities. This time, however, any student indulging in such activities can feel good in knowing that their time and money will be spent on a worthy cause: Muscular Dystrophy. The director of the \SPRING FLING\ weekend is Brian AT THE RA-T SPRING FLING WEEKEND Rathskellar & Budweiser Present: 24 Hour Pinbaii'Marathon to benefit Muscular Dystrophy April25-26 6:00a.m.-6:00p.m. See above article for mor:e information Cotterell, manager of the Skellar. There will be a 24 hour pinball marathon with each and every quarter eaten by the \Black Knight'' et. al. going to M.D. All of the draft beer will be sold at regular prices with 1h the intake going to M.D. WRUC is organizing a Dance- A- Thon with proceeds going to, you guessed it, M.D. Individuals must get sponsors to make donations. Sponsor cards are available at the Rat. At 4:00 a.m., the Skellar will provide a breakfast special at nominal cost. You can guess where the proceeds will go. (M.D.) _ Brunch will be available later in the day, as will beer for M.D. in the afternoon. P1·obably the most exciting aspect of the weekend is the \World Cup of Rathskellar Games\. Contestants will play all of the games in the Skellar and the highest aggregate scores will receive trophies, prizes and other good stuff. The whole point is to keep the machines going for Muscular Dystrophy! A detailed schedule for \SPRING FLING\ will be printed in next week's CON· CORDIENSIS. Watch for details! dates, Pat Metheny released his first solo album entitled \New Chautauqua\ an effort that quickly portrayed Pat's ver- satility on the acoustic, electric, and 15-string harp guitar, in addition to his work on the electric bass. Perhaps the biggest break for Metheny came in 1979 when artist J oni Mitchell asked Pat to join her backup band for Joni's famous ''Shadows & Light Tour''. The album, featuring the work of many outstanding musicians, was later released in 1980. Metheny released his fifth album for ECM shortly before that tour with Mitchell. It was entitled \American Garage\ and was greeted favorably by the public and subsequently nominated for a Gramrny Award in 1981. Since that highlight, Metheny has un- believaBly released two albums entitled \80-81\ and \As Falls Witchita, So Falls Witchita Falls\. Pat Metheny's seven album releases in just five years in- dicates his enthMsiastic attitude towards his profession. If Metheny can deliver half of that energy in his performance here at Union, it will be a jazz show worth attending. Jazz guitarist Pat Metheny Tickets on Sale Tomorrow! For the Mountebank's production of Noah Is a Righ.teous Man and a Damned Good Carpenter Too (or Noah's Nott) See Mrs. Marra in Student Activities or come to the N()ft Memorial Box Office Smythe Deprived A very long time ago, in the days when Smythe tradition was just a way of life for a young man named Eustas, there existed a kangaroo named Lucifer. Lucifer was a freewheeling beast. He lived high on the hog, so to speak. He lived as he wanted to live, eating follr meals a day and hopping where ever he pleased, until one day disaster struck. Lucifer was mistaken for-of all things-a dog, and was placed in the Smytheville dog pound. He didn't stay long though, only until that historic day when Eustas P. decided that his home was too lonely. Smythe ven- tured to the Smytheville dog pound to find himself a com- panion. His initial intention was to bring horne a cute little puppy but upon seeing Lucifer, he was overwhelmed by the uniqueness of this dog. (Lucifer kept the fact that he was really a kangaroo a secret.) So Eustas P. Smythe and Lucifer the puppy, which was in actuality a full grown kangaroo, moved in together in Smythe's humble abode in the Wahoo Valley. Lucifer quickly reverted to his old ways; he would eat as much food as he could get, snacking between meals on things like bac<>n grease and whatever else l:le could find in Smythe's garbage pail. But Eustas was a patient man, he spent hours and hours trying to train Lucifer in the ways of the world. You see, Smythe preferred that Lucifer go to the bathroom outside or at least on newspaper, but Lucifer's habit was to excrete at will, ()ften in mid-hop. In spite· of his bad habits, Eustas loved Lucifer dearly, and troeated him well. However, Smythe's landlord, Woody Davis, was not so fond of the kangaroo. He pointed out that the fine print of the rental agre·ement specifically stated that no kangaroos would be allowed on the premises. Smythe contested, holding that Lucifer was a harmless puppy, but to no avail. You've got to get up pretty early in the morning to fool Woody Davis. Smythe had no choice but to concur; rules are rules you know. Eustas was heartbroken. True, his house was a bit cleaner, but there was a void in his life, an empty void. That void was never filled in quite the same way, and to this day, just the thought of that loveable little devil evokes fond memories in the hearts of Smythies everywhere. GONG SHOW Cabaret will present is 2nd annual Gong Show during the 8th week of Spring term. If you have a crazy or serious talent, show up at auditions on Tuesday night, April 28 at 7 p.m. in the Cabaret Room. For more info., call Betsy at 382-9303. Plant a Seed for your Future at SUNY-BINGHAMTON Summer Session 1981 Term I - June 1-26 Term II- July 6mAugust 14 l 'ndt•rgrddudtt• dIll i l; r.ulu,dt' l :um ..... t•-., h•.1turt! Sm.<·ill ( :Lt~st•s. Spt•t·ial ln!t•mi\t' \\urbhup~ Flt>'\tbh~ I'inws dill! Sd~t•dult':--. Dav ilild 1-:\·prung Write or Call for Catalog: Summer Session. SUNY-Binghamton Binghamton, NY 13901 (607) 798-2161

Page 8 OONCOBDIEN818, April .1.6, 1981 ~rts & Culture Blue Thursday ByJENNIFERSHAW You thought you were being so smart when you headed for the Lowenbrau .at D.U .• early last Thursday night! Well,. in so doing, you missed one of the most entertaining, dynamic Cabarets of the year, featuring Jim. Burns with John Friedland and The Blues ·Brothers Band starring Rob \Jake\ Derbabian and Rich \Elwood\ Altman. Due to advance rumors of excellence and sell out crowds, reminiscent of James Taylor, people began waiting on line for tickets at 4:30. They were not disappointed, as were those who arrived at 6:00 for the 8: 00 sales and were unable to obtain tickets for either the 9 ~oo or 11:00 show. The unusually large crowds at both shows got rowdy as the lights dimmed. Eager to see the performers they had heard so much about, they responded to the comic attempts of last minute M.C. Norm Pflaster with barrages of pretzels, napkins, beer, and assorted insults which he took good~ naturedly as he made a quick exit. Jim Burns took center stage first and developed a friendly rapport with the audience early in his act. With his risque humor, commendable stage presence and unabashed a~ preciation and flashlight illumination of the pretty girls present, he quickly gained the audience's attention and preceded to the musical portion· of his performance. The fast- paced songs sqch as \Bad Bad Leroy Brown\ \ Mrs. Robin- son\ and \You're 16\ were well chosen to display Burns' sharp strumming style and splendid mastery of the guitar. By far, the highlight of the 464 State St. we deliver Unique Opportunity as an on-campus travel representative. Work own schedule, commission basis. Call 456-2011 first act was when Burns was joined by his very talented friend John Friedland. Their vocal and instrumental styles complimented ea.ch . other superbly in such numbers as \You'll Accompany Me\ and \Sandman\. Burns' jokes, interspersed with the songs were lewd, crude, but effective, although they did border on obscenity toward the end of the evening, thus offending quite a few members of the audience. Bums and Friedland ended with an extremely impressive rendition of ''Desperado'', leaving the crowd eager to see if the Second Act would be as entertaining. By this time, the audience was a bit more subdued--but not for long. With the opening note of \She Caught the Katy\ ~ Rob \Jake\ Derbabian, Rich \Elwood\ Altman, and the rest of the Blues Brothers Band literally blew the audience away with talent and en- thusiasm. The horn section consisted of John Sciortino, Andre Enceneat, Kevin Angus, and Joe Nalli under the skillful, inspired leadership of Altman on the sax. Each partook of an equal share of the limelight, performing incredible solos without the slightest hesitation, all of them superb. Clint Sours was, as usual, spectacular on the drums, demonstrating his skill with a challenging solo which left the audience breathless. The in- nately talented Jim Wardwhose bass line, along with the Sours percussion and Zanta guitar styles, which has enhanced ~;~o many campus performances of late, provided new depth here, directly complemented the others. Mike Zanta, known as Schenectady 374-1888 SUMMER JOBS Local and overseas - Write for information to: A.P. Company 1516 E. Tropicana Dept.~.7a • 110 las Vegas, Nevada 89109 Include a self addressed stamped envelope \the Amazing Z\ for his in- credible musical prowess, lived up to his nickname, as his fingers flew over the strings of his guitar, leaving this amateur guitarist in awe and Math professor Ned Rosen threw me into the nth dimension· via his command of the keyboard 88. Without .a. doubt,. the center of attention was vocalist Rob \Jake\ Derbabian.. His fine, clear voice was able to master all the subtleties of the challenging scores and within moments Jake and Elwood had the audience wrapped around their mtlsical little fingers. They quickly moved the band through \Everybody Needs Somebody to Love,\ ''Gimme Some Lovin,\ \Jailhouse Rock,\ \Sweet Home Chicago,\ that da$sic Blues Brothers tune \Soul Man\ and 3 encores. There are not enougn superlatives to do the Union Blues Brothers justice. They were so tight, it's hard to believe they only had three group rehearsals--quite a tribute to the talent and dedication of an the individuals involved. Their next per- formance is· tentatively scheduled for the ZBT UMOC Party, April28 and guarantees a large crowd. Don't miss it. I won't. Jim 'Burns in action at last Thursday 1 s Cabaret AU·DITIONS! , Anyone interested in auditioning for \The Hole\ a one-act absurdist play, please call Deme at 370- 6869, to set up a time .. Auditions will run from Thursday, April 16 through Monday, April 20. There are parts tor five men and two women. New WOve Film Se.ries Jean~Luc Godard's Breathless will be shown on . Apri1.23rd :as:the .sec.ond.oUive · · offerings in the Minerva- sponsored French New Wave Film Series. With the New Wave, film took a big step toward becoming a vehicle of expression capable of challenging the supremacy of the word in literary art. Cinematographers had hoped from the begiiming to make film a legitimate peer of the other arts. A full ten years before the New Wave, a young writer and film critic mimed Alexandre Astruc labeled this approach to cinema \La Camera-Stylo\ (camera-pen). He proposed that film could be as subtle ~nd flexible a mode of expression as writing. Throughout the 1950's in Paris, young students of film- Godard, Francois Truffaut, Jacques Rivette, Eric Rohmer, and others, canvassed old and new films to collect and evaluate the known cinematic techniques. The fihns searched included a great number made in Hollywood, a fact that ex- plains both the numerous \borrowings\ these directors made from American films and, in part, the popularity th~ New : Wa,y~r •,El~iay~qu ... 'Y:.ith...: V~$ .. , audienc~s. The Cinematheque Francaise, supetvised·by Henri · Langlois under the auspices of the French Ministry of Culture, preserved the fihns .that made possible the unprecedented project of re-viewing and studying large numbers of films to achieve a thorough education in the techniques of the · medium. To this technical repertory, Truffaut, Godard and the others brought their particular in- terests in literature, modern poetry, ethnology and the history of art. With the en- couragement of Andre Bazin in whose Cahiers du' Cinema the new fi1m-making theory was being discussed, the New Wave directors merged philosophical and political concerns into their film style. The resulting approach to cinema sought to combine what could be learned from the technical creativity of a Hitch- cock with the quasi-literary projects of a Renoir. On its acquired repertory of t~chniques, the New Wave filin Photo Corner tries to expand the· expressive possibilities of the medium itself.· · Whereas most conunercially- produced .. films are . made collectively by a studio or team of writers, director, producer, etc.~ the New Wave films are much more nearly the work .of the director. Ba2in defined this auteur theory as, \choosing the personal factor in artistic creation as a standard of reference, and as assuming that it continues and ·even progresses from one film to the next.'' The Minerva Committee is sponsoring a French New Wave Film Series this termJ witlt five films choSen to illustrate the range of styles from (jodard's film noir to Demy's \operatic fairy tale.\ The titles and dates are: April 23rd, Godard's Breathless; May 7th, Melville's Le Samourai; May 18th, Resnais's La Guerre est finie; May 21st, Demy's Umbrellas of Cherbourg. All screenings wUl be at 1:30 p.m. in SS 016. Admission is free. Viewers are invited to linger after each film for refreshments and informal discussion. \Cousin Gino\ by Joseph Lauren, Taken in a small household in a tinx_ village called Benastare Calabria In Southern Italy, November 1980, during the photographer's term abroad. He Profes: from ( speak ChoicE Estinu room~ Sponso work a at 7:3(1 \El ~ Nam?' elude Yates p.m. i chargE Africc: perf or: Rabyn 8 p.m. Sot Spons( work Loung, This mark Schen · RALL' we ern event award time.' times that achie, speed chugs. drink speed Alre · Camp1 two fa There furthe ·comm speedi very l speeru of all Wet Rally• please The Zeta

OONOORDIENSIB, .A:pril16, 1981 What's Happen~ing AprU16 lAM Presents Professor Donald R. Lehman from Columbia University w:ill speak on . \Attribute Based Choice Models and Their Estimation,\ at 3:45 p.m. in room 207 Bailey Hall. Career Panel Sponsored by Women's Net- work as part of Women's Week at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. FUm \El Salvador: Another Viet Narn?'' The program will in- clude commentaries by Pam Yates and Tom Siege 1. At 7:30 p.rn. in SS016. No admission charge. Aprlll7 BLAS African Dance Troupe will perforin. Coffeehouse Rabyn Williams will perform at 8 p.m. in the Cabaret Room. Social and Cocktail Party Sponsored by Women's Net- work at 4:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Ap~l8 Accepted Candidates Day AUCampus ·Party Rich Hope and Ricn D'ecker will be performing. Free admission at 10 p.m. in Old ChapeL Apr019 J .s.o; llmel Presents Home hospitality · for those students unable to go home for Passover. Watch for details or call 346-3943. Apr020 Intellectual Cabaret Will be held at 9:00 p~m. in the Cabaret Room. AprD21 Film Conunittee Presents \The Gold Rush\ and \The General'' at 7 and 9:30 inSS016. General Nottices IMPORTANT The Fllm. Committee will not be · showing a movie this holiday · . weekend~ \The Rocky Horror Picture Show\ will be shown next weekend (4-24.). Watch for posters and NOftiCES for details. Union College sophomore·s with a B or better grade point average are encouraged to apply for selection as the Union . • • Ices College \St. And·rew's Exchange StudenP'.for the 1981· . '82 acadeinic year. The selected student will spend bis-her junior year abroad at the l!Tniversity of St. Andrew's, Scotland's oldest univer:sity. ''Weight Reducthon Workshops\ beginning Wed- . nesday, Aprillst at the Health Service. Workshops will be held. each Wednesday from 44i p.m. for six weeks. All interested men and women are welcome to jo¥1 Sandy and Carol! Call Health Service for further in· formation. LOST: One Chern 10 book, one ehem notebook, and a soft- covered book, The Cocktaflwa.ftress. If found·, · please call 382·9330 and ask for · Jeff. Huyck Ce>r:poration, Washington Street, REnsselaer, N,Y. 12144. Applicati()ns are due on or before April15, 1981. Large 6;,ro()m apartment-flat available 'fDr subletting Sep- tember tnru June. Two students, $120 per month each includes aU utilities, ap- pliances,, furnishings and a garage. Jtmi.:Jrs or seniors, non- smokers .preferred. Summer subletting also available, negotiable. Call 372-3226 after 5:30 p.m. There will be a meeting for all juniors and other students applying:during this year to any To encourage college students interested in Business Administration and related .fields to consider careers in the area of Parcbasing, the PURCHASING MANAGEM· F.NT ASSOCIATION OF EASTERN NEW YORK will award two scholarships in the amount of $650.00 each. for the 1981-1982 academic year. Additionally, each awar;d in- cludes a one-year dues.ifree membership in the Purchasing Management Association of Eastern New Y ()rk, and the opportunity to attend, at no · cost, all educational meetings and seminars spDnsored by the Association. For further in- formation and application contact Mr. C.J. Chudosky, · C.P.M., Huyck Felt, Division of · health professional schools in S301 (Genetics Lab). Two duplicate meetings will be held. Come either- Wednesday, April 15 at 7 :OCJ p.m. or Thursday, April 16 at 4:30 p.m. Those applying. to .AUopathic Medical School should plan on staying up · to an hour aad a half (reviewing . AM CAS f(lrmS, etc.). The Sch.olastic AU-American Selection Committee is now accepting applications for the 1981 Spring Semester. Students who are active in scholastic organizations and who perform . SEA 011 f}Je Greek fro:qt - ~ Love yow :Mother-Earth Day, on April .22, 1981. T.he celebration begins at sunrise in the gardens with activities planned for the whole day. Look for us-the Student Environ- mental A.lliance. Chi Psi Beer RaDy This Tuesday, April 21st, will mark the 17th Annual Chi Psi Schenectady-TOGA BEER· · RALLY. Once again this year we emphasize the fact that the event is only a rally and no awards are given for the fastest time. The awards are for, those times which come closest to that exact time which is achieved when driving -the speed limit and hustling on chugs. The driver must not drink and must observe all speed limits! Already this year the Union · Campus has been devastated by two fatal automobile accidents. There is no reason to cause any · further loss or damage to our · community by thD.ughtless speeding. The Beer Rally is a very fun affair at reasonable · speeds which insure the safety of all on the highway. We urge you to enter the Beer Rally and enjoy the evening but please do not speed. ZBT~UMOC The Brothers and Pledges of Zeta Beta Tau present their second annual competition for the Ugliest Man on Campus. Ten cents will cast one vote for your candidate. All proceeds will be donated to the UNITED WAY of Schenectady. Leaders will be posted daily, as com- petition begins. on Monday, Apri120. Prize packages include a 12\ television, a multi-band portable radio, a dinner for two at the Turf Inn, $75 in gift certificates from AJC Sporting Goods, a keg of beer, and much more. · Winners will be an- nounced at the ZBT-UMOC Band Party on Tuesday, April 28. Thanks from SDT To all those nursing their blistered feet and aching muscles: The Sisters of Sigma Delta Tau would like to thank you fDr participating in our Skate-a-Thon for Muscular Dystrophy. Without you, this event would not have been the success that it was. When the money is all collected we will have raised over $2,500.00! Thank you again. OU 50's Party The Brothers of Delta Upsilon would like to invite everyone to their 43rd annual 50's party on Friday, April Z4 at 10:00. There will be a disc jockey, free beer and punch, and dCJor prizes for the best costumes. Volleyball-~·thon We are ertending an in- vitation to your organization to play volleyball and raise money for charity in the Phi Delta Theta-Theta Delta Chi Volleyban-a .. thon in association with Red Cross Youth and Easter Seals. This fun and grueling event will begin at 2 p.m., April24and will continue until 2 p.m., Dn the following day, April25. Teams from Phi. Delta Theta, 'rheta Delta Chi, Union College and the local community will be competing against each other~ Great prizes . will be awarded to the top three money raisers, and Appreciation Plaques will be given to the two teams who raise the most money. For mQre information contact Craig Hayden, 346-2839 of John Casale, 370.0459. Suitcase Party Delta Phi would like to an• '-----------------------------. nounce its fourth annual suit- ~~iiL4~ 'Special Women's Week Show •11181•1 Shows at 9 and 11 p.m. 1st act: 2nd act: MC: Karen Weisgerber ~ Rache I Gert.zog and Amy Edwards Polly Wheeler Tickets on sale at 8 p.m. in Carnegie case party which takes place May 8 from 114 a.m. at the Girting Cente1·. There will be a number of prizes given away throughout the night with the first prize being aJl. all expense paid weekend trip to Bermuda for you and your date. It's a great time! · Tickets are 13 dollars on sale in Student Activities and may be pur- chased from Mrs. Marra. Beer will be free; donation for mixed drinks. Tropical dress is mandatory. DO I'l'l The IDOL The IDOL arts and literary magazine will be accepting admissiOns for its Spring issue from no-w 1mtil May 1. Send poetry and short fiction to IDOL, B{)X 502. Send artwork, ph()tographs (these must be reproducable in black and white) , etc. , to the Art Dept. main office. Cash prizes will be awarded! For more info, contact Peter Weishar (6662), Mary Richardson (6845), or Karen Paul (6883). \'\V(}:men's Ski Team Woman ski racers, come to the . Women's Ski Team organizational meeting tonight, at 9 :00 in the Pub. Officers. will be elected and plans for next . year will be discussed. The Gamet The school's yearbook is having a full staff meeting on Thur- sday, April 16th at 7:30. All interested students please at- tend. (4th ffoor Carnegie). A.t1ention Seniors The Commencement Com- . mittee is searching for anyone · interested· in delivering the Senior Class speech at Com- menc:ernent. The speeches should not exceed 5-7 pages in length, and should contain only your ID number. All thgse in- terested may submit a double- spaced typed copy of their · spe~ch to Mike Andolina in the Page 9 well in class are asked to join. The Scholastic All-American is an .honor society founded to recognize this country's top undergraduate and graduate students. Students are selected from over 1,280 schools covering all 50 states. Members .participate in various nationally organized service projects each year. Students are selected for consideration based on the extent of their academic and scholastic performance both in and out of the classroom. No or.e factor is weighed heaviest when a new member is considered. A student's best asset must be his or her \well roundedness.\ Interested stu<Jents are asked to send a stamped, self- addressed envelope to \Application.\ Scholastic All- American, Administrative Offices, P.O. Box 237, Clinton, New York 13323. All students are encouraged to submit an application regardless of their grade point average. Student Affairs Office before April 30, 1981. Chemistry Club. . . The Chern Club will be holding elections on Wednesday, April ~2 at 7:00p.m. in Nl16. Anyone interested in running for office should contact either Tony DeAngelo (372-7656) or Marabeth Soltis (370-6522). Fox-Davidson 50-SO Raffle Starting Monday, April 20, Fox and Davidson dorms will be holding a 50-50 raffle. The winner will collect half of the total money raised. Raffles will be sold for $.50 each or 3 for $1.00. The drawing will be on April 30, 1981, Fox Lounge at 7:30 p.m. The procee~ go towards the AU-Campus Fox- Davidson party, May 15 at 2:00, Fox-Davidson courtyard. Student Forum Committees Applications for all Student Forum Committees (Finance, Concert, Speakers Forum, Film, SQcial, Elections, Committee on Committees and Traffic and Pet Court) as well as the College Committees including the Student Affairs Council, Academic Affairs Council, Admissions Com- mittee, Planning and Priorities Committee, Conduct Com- mittee, Standing of Students Committee, Athletic Com- mittee, and Campus Operations Committee will be available in the Student Activities Office, Friday, April 17. All ap- plications are due by \'Or on Monday, April 27. Dance Club The Dance Club will hold a general meeting on Wednesday, April 22 at 7:30, p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Elections for next year will be held. All are welcome!

Page 10 OONOOBDIENSIS, April 16, 1981 Nine Victorious Union College's women's softball team collected only four hits, but that was enough as Coach Jane Hopkins' Dut- chwomen evened their record at 2-2 with a convincing 10-4 drubbing of Albany State last Monday before a crowd of over 200 at Library Field. appearance in each of Union's games, lowered her earned run average to 2.15. Last Saturday, Coach Hopkins' squad dropped a l:W decision at St. Rose. Linda Gutin topped Union's hitters with a single and a dottble, and Kirsten Petersen was tagged with the pitching loss in her first appearance of the season. St. Rose's victory enabled them to avenge a 1()-4 setback suffered at the hands of Union during the 1980 season. The softbaH team Will play at Skidmore on Saturday, at 1 p;m., before hosting :Skidmore Union, which had built a W lead on a two-run single by catcher Lynn Leblanc in the .first and unearned runs in each of the second and fourth in- nings, exploded for six tallies in the bottom of the fifth to grab the win. Union sent nine batters to the plate with the big blow being Carol Wrenn's grand slam home run that rolled to the light post by the Nott Memorial. on April 24 at 3:30. Winning pitcher Dina PHotis . Dina Pliotis picked up her third pitching win in three decisions despite giving up a dozen singles and a two-run homer in the top of the sixth. Pliotis, who has made a mound Women's Softball Composites 4·18 4·24 4·25 4-27 s~ 1 5-6 4-18 4-20 4-22 4-24 4-29 5-2 5-4 5-7 Player AB R H Liese 11 3 5 Wrenn 7 ·5 4 Gut in 10 5 2 Piliotis · 12 1 2 Bigda 15 3 4 Petersen· 5 2 2 Leblanc 12 5 4 Hugick 12 4 3 Wright 12 2 1 Downey 10 6 1 Bailey 7 3 2 O'Donnell 2 2 0 Upcoming Women's Sports Softball Lacrosse Skidmore Skidmore Oneonta New Paltz Ulster CC Albany Hartwick A & B Wells Middlebury A & B Oneonta A& B Castleton Russell Sage A & B Williams Hamilton RBI 0 6 3 3 2 0 5 3 1 1 4 1 1:00 3:30 1:00 3:30 4:00 3:30 1:00 4:00 3:00 3:30 3:30 11:00 :00 4:00 Ave. .454 .5.71 .200 .166 .266 .400 .333 .250 .083 .100 .285 .000 A H H H' H A A H A H A H H H c:: w > w ·Vi ~ 0 ...... 0 if Stickers Open Coach · Marty Morrison's women's lacrosse team split a pair of games last week as it rallied past Skidmore, 10-9, in the season opener before dropping a 13-5 decision to highly conditioned West Point. Union, which trailed 3-5 at halftime against Skidmore, outscored the hosts 5-1 in the second half. Sheryl Katz, who along with Holly ·Howard had four goals; put home the winner with just 24 seconds showing on the clock. Liz Gar.cia chipped in with a pair of tallies. Against West Point, Union fell to the cadets' superior con- ditioning as the visitors scored :five times in the final 10 minutes. Holly Howard led the Dutchwomen's scoring with a pair .of goals, giving her a total of six goals ·after just two games. Union will be back in action this afternoon when it travels to Russell Sage for a 3 p.m. game and will play at Hartwick on Saturday in a 1 p.m. _start. Coach Morrison'S team will host Wells on Garis Field in a 4 p.m. game on Monday . before traveling to Middlebury on Wednesday. Women's lacrosse· Composites Record:. 1-1 Scorers: Saves: Union lO, Skidmore 9 Army13, Unions- 1-J()IIy Howard Sheryl Katz Liz Garda Debbi€ Goldberg Erhily Monosson Sue 1 1Jioomberg 6 goals 5 goals 2 goals 1 goal 1 goal 24saves Anyone interested in writing for Women's :HAVE A SPECI.AL TI.ME AT. • • Sports please ccntact Cory \ Lewkowicz at 6629 or at Concordy Office on Tuesday nights Thanks! Bon Appetit .. Un•on Ia Patisserie is a French Pastry Shop and prides itself on fine quality and a distinguished product line of baked goods. There a·re assorted Danish, sticky buns, tortes, cookies, assorted cheese cakes in addition to other f.i11e pastries. In ad- dition,. Ia Patisserie offers complete table ser- vice at our ... 'PASTRY CAFE' Enj·oy slices of cheesecaker tortes, and other ca.kes, Danish and croissa11ts complemented with a cup of coffee, tea or milk. Ia Patisserie also prepa.res cakes, tortes., etc. for your special occasion. Open Tues •. Sat. a·:oo a.m ... 5:30 p.m. and open for all 'Just off BroadwGy' shows at Proctor's 1- <lJ c 1- <lJ ..:I <lJ > <lJ .... t/) >- .0 0 0 '· .. .c a. < ,., .: Steep Be By ( The Teamc •at a sn week tl and sl games that tt. order playoff On ' squad 1 2 disa hands~ were 1 Union' 2 rum Glenn: loss in bunchE walks I and AI apiece jumpe1 game deliveJ but WE and lo Tim produ< the si:J with 1 McGrc: nings< score Sacco< each forme1 these' TheJ baseb we ekE doublE LeMo· - enterl secon< of a 2: durin1_1 Glenn lack,ol Glenn Up 3rt came close j bats c eachc Obers: the fa1 in th~ exploc to wir ched.: just 6 the 1 squad

' - -- - .. ---- ~ - .. - -- -- ~- .... .. -- -· .,...._,_ - -- . .,....._ ··- - ,._ -- - 1- <IJ c 1- QJ ..J QJ· > il) .... (f) >- .0 0 0 .c a.. ·; ~' OONOORDIENSIS~ April 16,. 1981 Pa,ge 11 Jrackmen Ttampled By JACK CONNOR J:t',eeling very much like the British army after the Battle of Dunkirk, the Union track team '''retreated'' from Troy Saturday after receivin.g one of the worst shellackings ever at' the hands of RPI. The Dut- chmen scored.only six firsts and four seconds in the twenty-event meet as they absorbed a 125-45 loss~ Adam Licht led the team with two first places. Light finished first in the 1,500 with a time of 4: 15 and came· back an hour later to win the 5,000 in 15:41. Also scoring wins for Union were: Mark Dunn in the discus with a throw of 142 feet; Ed Arnheiter in the steeplechase in 10:04, Jim Zalucki in the pole vault; and Gerry Wells in the · high hurdles. Cbris Howd in the javelin. Although Howd finished second in his event, his performance was unquestionably the top of the day for Union. Throwing with only a three step run-up, he recorded a throw of 168 feet. After the meet, Howd, who was Maine State champion in the javelin two years ago, felt he was back into shape after a sidelining shoulder injury last year, but felt it would take 3 or 4 weeks for him to return to peak forrn. \It is just a question of technique,\ Howd said, \when I get my form down, there is no telling how far I'll be able to throw.\ Ullion~s next meet is Wed- nesday against Hamilton and Binghamton. lntramurals Boxing Men Entries due Apr. 22 Play begins Apr. 23 r Name:------------~------------ Phone No.:_. ----------------- Steeplechase victor Ed Arnheiter Finishing second in their events for Union were: Dave Dellehunt in the 800 and 1,500; Lynwood Wade in the shot; and Organization (if any): ____ __,. ___ ......_ ____ _ Weight Class )circle): Baseball Off to Slow Start Flyweight Lightweight Lightheavyweight Heavyweight . 0-160 161-180 1Bl-200 200+ By GEORGE OBER~TADT The Union College Baseball Teamopened the 1981 campaign • at a snail's pace. After tbe first week the Dutchmen sfand at 1-4 · and still have many tough games left on their schedule that they will have to win in order to make any type of playoff. On Tuesday, April 7, the squad opened their season with 2 disappointing losses at the hands of Utica College. The bats were sleeping on this day as Union was only able to generate 2 runs in the double-header. Glenn Kinns got pinned with the loss in the first game, as Utica bunched 6 hits and a couple walks to score.6 rwts. Joe Wood and AI Dilibero picked up 2 hits apiece in a losing effort. Union jumped on top in he second game 2-¥ as Andy Dreher delivered a big tw0arun single but were unable to score again and lost 6a2, Timely hitting for Utica produced 4 runs in the bottom of the sixth to hand Tod Fobare with the loss in relief. Paul McGrath .pitched 4 ·strong in- nings and left the game with the score knotted at 2-2. Mike Saccocio and George Oberstadt each chipped in 2 hits, the former blasting a long triple in the seventh. There was some exciting baseball played this past weekend as Union split a doubleheader with a powerful LeMoyne squad. LeMoyne entered this season ranked second in Division II as a result of a 22-7 record they compiled during their 'fall season. Again, Glenn Kinns was a victim of lack.of offense in the first game. Glenn scattered 8 hits and gave up 3 runs, but Union's late rally came up short and they lost a close one, 3-2. The Dutchmen's bats could only muster 6 hits, 2 each coming from Saccocio and Oberstadt. The Dutchmen gave the fans what they came to see in the second game as they exploded for 7 runs and went on to win 7-1. Paul McGrath pit· ched a brilliant game giving up just 6 hits in 6 innings against the hard hitting LeMoyne squad. Glenn Kinns provided relief help in the seventh to ice the win for McGrath. Union's big inning came in the bottom of the fifth. Tod Fobare started Union's rally with a line drive . double off the center field wall. Fred Brown then walked, Mike Saccocio singled in Fobare for one run and George Oberstadt walked to load up the bases. On a 1-2 pitch Joe Wood then delivered a clutch, bases clearing double to left center field. Andy Dreher then followed with a single and Dan Thomson walked.. Union scored their final2 runs ori an error and,., an RBI single by Steve Goll. __ Defense was the most out- standing aspect of Union's play in the doubleheader as AI Dilibero, Steve Goll, and Dan Thomson all J>layed superb games. The baseball .team appeared to be on their way after the split with LeMoyne, bpt they ran into a tough Albany State squad and dropped their fourth game 11-6. Union came out strong in the game scoring 6 runs in the second inning, however, while Albany used 10 hits and 12 walks to score 11 runs and post their seventh win against one loss. Steve Goll clouted a big 3-run homer in the second inning which followed a triple by Andy Dreher, singles by Dan Thomson and AI Dilibero, a wild pitch and a walk to Paul McGrath. Joe Wood added 2 hits to his pitching cause but they weren't enough as he suffered the defeat. This week the Dutchmen travel to Williams College on Tuesday and also face Hartwick College at home on Thursday. The baseball team plays their home game at Central Park in Schenectady and any support would be greatly appreciated. Badminton Women Name: ------------------------- Phone No.: ----------------- Organization (if any):-------------- Entries due April 22 Play beg.ins April 23 Racquetball Sign-up Rules 1. You may reserve the court on a first come, first serve basis. · 2. Reservations for one hour may be made of two or more players; failure to show up will result in loss of privileges for one week. J. _If no one shows up after a group's time is up, they may contmue play but cannot sign up, leaving the period free tor others. , 4. Noonhrs. (11:30-1:30) reserved for facult~andstaff. 5. Sign-up sheets will be available after 3:3op.m. the day prior to thedayofplay. Sign-ups must be made)n person. A group can also call in a reservation after 5:00 p.m. the day before the day of play. ~Athlete of the Week Chi Psi Sean Durharn, _the captain and leading scorer on the Union lacrosse team has been selected as the Miller Athlete of the Week .. Sean scored six goals in Thursday's game against Division III .powerhouse St. Lawrence and tlll'ned in a four- goal, two· assist performance against Geneseo on Saturday. Unfortunately, despite Sean's outstanding play, Union was on the losing side of both games. Sean has collected 40 points so far this season, an average of 5.5 points per game. • Lacrosse h~s always been Sean's game. Coming from high 0 school lacrosse · power \ii Massapequa, Sean was named i to the All Division and All South , Shore teams. 0 course of study in the economic and computer science fields. He also enjoys a number of other extracurricular activities. Sean has recently been bestowed with another prestigious honor. He was Sean came to Union College -i via Nassau Colleg~ in Garden <t: City, N.Y., where he played one E year. That year Nassau College o . won the National JUnior College ~ · Lacrosse Championship. . a.. · selected to try out for the United States National Lacross team. Good luck to Sean at the National team tryout and to the Dutchmen lascrosse team for the- rest of the season. Sean is a member of the Chi Psi fraternity. :IIe is taking up a Athlete of the Week Sean Durham Beer Rally this Tuesday April 21 Pick up entry forms at the Lodge

Page 12 OONOORDIBNSIS, Apnl 16, 198~ - c: OJ ~ >- .c 0 - 0 ..c: 0.. 0 Ill Cl ~ b ..., <i. >- .c 0 +- 0 .c: a.- Mark Sackerson drives to the goal Laxmen Drop Pair :By SRVE MYERS Needing to establish a win- ning mlurk,. the Dutchmen challenged' tl'le team from St. Lawrence ,tJniversity, currently ranked 7th in Division III. The game, being the second home game, was vital to the laxmen as the first one had been lost in agony to Siena College. Seemingly prepared . for the match, Uni()ntookthe field, but, by half time, it appeared that the team was off to a slow start as St. Lawrence held the lead 7- 0. In the second half, the Dutch- men attempted a comeback. as Sean D11rham pumpea m ti goals, Jlm Wright aiding with his solo goal. But in vain did the Garnet battle as St. Lawrence held strong :to take the vjctory 17-7. Once again, Umon had to settle with another infuriating loss, awaiting the game to be played against Geneseo State the folloWing Saturday away. halftime break 13bowed lackings in offensive_:patlence, defensive strategy and face-off control. Ptillingtheirtalents together at Tennis Dips Below .500 Leaving on Friday evening, the laxmen traveled a grueling 4 hours to prepare for their adversaries the following morning. Last year, Union came off as the big winner at home over Geneseo State; thus~ the rivals were out for revenge for the past defeat. Geneseo State, always a competitive team, entered the game with almost the entire starting team from the previous year. The Union team readied themselves for a tough game by initially playing even with tl:te Geneseo team. But, by halftime, the Dutchmen fell short by \Seven goals. ·contemplation of errors of the first half during the . the 'start of tl!e· s.econd half tQ eliminate previous error, the Union team .fough,t back .strong. With the aid -of the face-off talents of Dave Schumann and Stev.e Myers, Union managed to control the ball more often. With longer ball control; the Dutchmen capitalized on op- portuniti~s with Sean Durham and Jim Wright scoring four goals each and Larry Salberg, Stever Myers; and B.rian Walck each scoring a pair. This rally of effort brought the Union laxmen within three .goals with five minutes remaining. However, time ran out for the Garnet as the score remained at 17-14, with Geneseo State emerging as the victor. With a present record of 2·5, the Dutchmen host .Syracuse University; the third nationally ranked team in Division I. ByS.BOVmR A confident Union College Men's Tennis team began its season on April 4 wit~ a con- vincing 6-3 victory over Hart- wick. The key to this season's matches seems to be the ex- cellent shape the team appears to be in following a tough conditioning program under Coach Al Bagnoli. This ap- peared all so important in Union's first match, where the team won two out of three singles matches that went into three sets. At first singles, Captain Barry Rosenberg, who learned his tennis under the supervision of Harry Hopman at Port Washington Tennis Academy alongside John McEnroe and Vitas Gerulaitis, got off to a slow start, but managed to tire his opponent out and take the match in a third set tiebreaker. Meanwhile, second singles player Dave Patalita suffered a similar loss of concentration in the first set, but came on to take the match by a score of 6-3 in the third set. At fourth singles, Steve Eskenazi showed his consistent style. of play in Dave Patalita prolongs the volley beating a tough Hartwick op- ponent 6-4, 6-4. The two fresh- men in this year's starting lineup, l)wight Moore and Josh. Antiles, both began their Union tennis careers with identical·6· 0, 7-5 victories. In doubles, the teams ·Of Patalita and Lestina and Moore and :Eskenazi both lost tough three set matches, :while Barry Rosenberg and Josh Antiles came on to take their match 6-3, 6-1. Union's next opponent was a tough Williams College squad. When the foul weather forced the match to be moved to nearby indoor tennis coUJ,'ts, the Union team could riOt-adjust quickly enough to the fast, in· door surface, and lost a tough match to Williams, a tough Division Il tennis power. The team next took a long road trip to Hobart, only to lose 5-4 in a match that came down to a three set doubles match. At third singles, the speedy, hard-hitting Tom Lestina came up with his first victory of the year with a 7-5, 6-4 win. Again, Union's two freshmen, Dwight Moore, one of the few good tennis players to ever come out of Rhode· Island, and Josh POOL HOURS Mon.- Fri. M, Tu, W, F Sat. Sun. 11: 30 - 3:30 7:00-9:00 1: 00-4: 00 i 7: 00- 9:00 1 : 30 . 4: 30 i 7: 00 - 9: 00 Gym hours for holiday weekend Fiel~house closed F~i., 7:00 p.m. - Sunday 6:30 p.m. Alumni Gym open regular hours. Antiles both came up with crucial victories in straight sets. The match went into doubles play tied at three match~s apiece, but the Union squad, apparently tired from the long bus trip to Hobart, fell short, as they lost two out ·of three of the double's matches. Union's only win at doubles was by the reliable team of Barry Rosenberg and Josh Antiles, who came away with an easy 6- 1, 7-5 victory. This year's team is the youngest at Union in many years. Besides Senior Barry Rosenberg, and Juniors Tom Lestina and Stu Bober, the rest of the team is composed of five Sophomores returning from last year's squad - Dave Patalita, Steve Eskenazi, Howie Brod- sky, Paul Shaskan, and Southern California's Bob Stratton, and 'Freshmen Dwight Moore and Josh Antiles, Dave Katz, Hank Hoffman, and Dwight Janerich. Under- the leadership of second year tennis coach Al Bagnoli, this year's squad hopes to improve on last year's winning season of 7 and 5. SPORTS HAPPENINGS Aprill6.22 - Varsity Lacrosse -J.V. Lacrosse Varsity Baseball Varsity Tennis Outdoor Track Women's Lacrosse Varsity Softball Golf April22atMiddledury Aprill7Skidmore April12atMiddlebury Apri 116 Hartwick April22 RPI April 17 at Siena Apri 121 at Albany April22 at Hamilton April 16 at Russell Sage April18at Hartwick April 20 Wells Apri I 22 at Midd·lebury Aprill8atSkidmore Apri 11 Hartwick -April 20 Siena Rugby Impressive in Tournament By DEAN KAWI On Aprill1, the Union College rugby tearn took part in the Sienna Invitational Rugby Tournament, one of the most competitiv_e events in this area. The tournament · illcluded quality rugby teams such as West P.cint, University of Vermont,. Albany State. and Sienna just to name a few. The first rounci was just unan- ticipated,. as proven by West Point's unexpected defeat, and a couple of broken bones. Union played tough, and moved to the semi-finals by crushing Albany by a score of 8.0. Matt (Flash Gordon) Blum scored the first try late in the first half, after. running through several defense men .on a 25-yard burst up the middle. Jeff Demarco put the screws in the coffin late in the game by scooping up a kick from the line, and running it up the sideline for the second try. This win might not have been as easily ·achieved if it wasn't for the tough defense of Jim Heminway, Joe Cardino, and Nick Alexakos who stopped Albany on the one-yard line during a lost point in Union's game. After a 2•hour break and a few beers, Union met wjt.h the home team, Sienna. Sienna con• sidered Union the toughest competition at the tourney. OVer 1,500 fans were on the sidelines for this event. Sienna came out hungry, and played a tough defensive game, taking a three-point lead caused by a penalty· kick. In the second quarter, Anoy Audet took ad- vantage of a penalty on Sienna's 25·yard line, which tied the score at 3-3. The third quarter was the toughest of the game, with no score for either team thanks to the tough serum play of Craig Bell and Paul Soletski. Another stupid penalty by Union, though, gave Siennaa 6-3 lead. Union pulled up the fullback with a minute to go, which is similar to pulling a hockey goalie in . the final seconds of a l()sing game. Sienna took advantage of our weakened defense scoring a try in the final seconds, resulting in a lo-3 loss for Union. Sienna went on to win the final by a scoreof17-3, with Union placing a. respectable third. Afterwards, Union ruggers stayed at Sienna to help with the 36 kegs a11d the hot dogs. Both Sienna's and Syracuse's girls' rugby clubs were there, whiCh added another dimension to the party. There was a lot of spirit, as proven by those players who returned from the hospital and grabbed their beers. -Many of them, still bloody, joined in the singing with the very same Jllayers who caused the injuries. It is this aspect of the game which makes .rugby different fr()m every other sport; the ability of two op- posing teams to meet after the game, regardless of the score, as friends tied together by the bonds of a common interest. Those who have never ex- perienced rugby are welcome to come out and support us. We have a full schedule this spring, with many tough matches in the near future. If anyone is interested in playing rugby this spring the opportunity -is still available. Practices are held Monday through Friday at 4:00 at the field in front of West College. Your participation is more than welcome. \fol .. ,.,..\';\·' ... ill ,,;;;...-;-<\ c c ... ~:;< ill t- ~·>· >- 'tl .c u >- _o 0 .... 0 .J: 0.. Da,ve Foru1 L4 The condu 21. The assign class comp numb classe comp1 ran do that tb.rOU! si2e f1 done· the eJ news Mei Life ( Life eligib card stude1 and stude: ID ar card stude receb irnpol up~ h night the I n~xt ThE cam~ into singl1 Ther~ e:xpla co-op the I Pit H PI' The bas 1 Alph ''the univ• hazi.J hosp Mar• Stud And~ Sn invo cau! kidn extr \br1 toleJ stat1 Sr assi: deci llity inju and obe~

t >- '0 c: u >- ..0 0 .... 0 .J: ll.. VoL 11 0, No. 20· • _,<·,<!:>I . t. &. ';·I,. ..... D~ve O'Connor, Student Forum President, canters with freshman representative Gary Lehr at Forum meeting. Lottery Choices Upcoming The housing lottery will be conducted from May 5 to May 21. The computer will randomly assign numbers to students by class yero;. That is to say, the computer randomly assigns numbers to members of the classes of 82, 83, and 84. The computer then translates the random number to a number that is understandable--one tbrough 300-roughly the class si2e for each year. This wil\ be done for each class year with the exception of the incoming new students. · · or the Residence Life Office will answer all questions about the CO:::.QP lottery. The remainder of the campus housing will be selected according to class year and by the lottery number assigned to each student. Singles L()ttery: suite will be placed back into the lottery if any of the room- mates do not sign·the contract when the room or suite is selected. All occupants of a room or suite who are found to have cheated will lose any right to the room or suite. Ad- ditionally, the person(s) who cheated will be fined $100. Points of interest: class stan- ding is determine<;l by the number of credits received at tbe end of winter term-no exceptions; you must be on campus during spring term to participate in the lottery. Thursday, April 23, 1981 Student Forum: Decisions By NAOMlBLANK The .Student Forum, at its Monday meeting, discussed the proposal made by Con- cordiensis stating that Con- cordiensis would be allowed to use half of its advertising. in- come from the Union College Food Service for pizza and soda on Tuesday nights with a ma'lcimum set at $20 per week and not to exceed $480 per year. The pizza would be used to \promote a healthy en- vironment\ explained Paul Grossman, one of the weekly's editors-in-chief. The pizza pub's deliveries to WRUC's Trivia in exchange for air-time ad- vertising was cited as a similar past action that received no Student Forum comment. The vote on the motion, was originally tied at 7-7, and ultimatel\y not carried as President Dave O'Connor cast the deciding vote against the paper. An Academic Affairs Council representative, Steve Auerbach informed the Forum as to the AAG's recent policy action regarding the elimination of interdepartmental (ID) majors with engineering. This policy does not include Computer Science. The AAC, continuing its on-going. curricular review, has made this an official policy. Those currently involved in the ID system are not effected by this action. The pass fail policy was altered as well. No more than one pass-fail course may be taken each year, and justification io; no longer needed to take the course. Vern Wetmore~a member of the Student Affairs Council explained that the alcohol survey has been changed to a brochure to be distributed. It will serve as an informant regarding alcoliol problems and abuse as well as a complete policy statement. It emphasizes that New York State laws are in effect on the Union Campus. Spring elections for the Student Forum were an- nounced. The meeting closed with a statement by the Finance Committee. A formal set of bylaws will be established for ..... clarification purposes as soon as possible. Members of the Residence Life Committee and Residence Life Office will distribute to eligible students a computer .card (lottery card) bearing the student's name, ID number, a11d lottery number. The student MUST present his•her ID and pick up his-her lottery card IN PERSON. Only students presenting IDs will receive a }ottery nard. If it is impossible for a student to pick up · his-her lottery card that night, the student may do so at the Residence Lffe Office the nExt day. The senior with the lowest lottery number will have first choice of av:aila:ble singles, The senior with the next lowest lotter:y number will have the second choice. If some singles have not been selected and there are no more seniors present, the junior present with the lowest lottery number will have first choice of the remaining singles. This process will continue until all singles have been selected. Innovation Saves Schools The selection of available on- campus housing will be divided into three categories: co-ops, singles, and doubles and Suites. There will be a meeting to explain the selection process for co-ops on April28. Members of tile Residence Life Committee Double and Suite Lottery: The lottery· for doubles and suites. will conclude the prQcess. The senior lottery will be held first, followed by the junior lottery and finally the sophomore lottery. The class member present with the lowest lottery number will have first pick. The class member with the next lowest lottery nwnber, and present, will follow. Two people may choose one half of a suite. When a suite or double is selected, all roommates MUST be present and all MUST SIGN CONTRACTS. The room .or Pi1t Student lniured: (CPS )Over the past few years, under the supervision of Director of Campus Operations Jack Hill, Union College has been implementing an energy conservation program. The program is financed with a $2 million loan from the New York State Dormitory Authority. Hill's program looks promising, but some other schools have achieved some success with some less conventional methods. The common denominator for all schools involved is need. Stanford's energy cost's went up by 1.5 million. Florida's $1 million energy deficit has halted faculty pay raises. Hazing Policy Violated PITTSBURGH, PA (CPS)- The University of Pittsburgh has revoked the charter of the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity for ''the most serious violation\ of university rules ever, citing hazing that resulted in the hospitalization of one pledge March 19, according to Pitt's Student Activities Director, Andy Smith. Smith said the incident, which involved severe paddling causing back bruises and kidney damage, was '''at the far extreme of hazing .. '' Such \brutalization will not be tolerated by the university,\ he states. Smith, along with the -assistant dean for fraternities, decided to revoke the. frater- nity's charter in light of the injuries sustained by the pledge and of the fraternith's retusal to obey university· policy. The Pitt case is .the second time in two months that a fraterility has been disciplined for hazing. In February the University ·· of Southern California indefinitely suspended the Delta Tau Delta fraternity, when it was cited for hazing. \We;ve been in constant communication with the fraternities about our hazing . policies since 1975,\ Smith explains. In fact, every fraternity was required to read and sign a copy of the policy. But Alpha Phi Alpha \simply ignored it,\ Smith says, and now it is \reaping the ill effects of it.\ · The fraternity immediately appealed Smith's decision to Pitt's vice chancellor after being informed of the revocation. The vice chancellor upheld the decision, but ' reminded the fraternity that its national organization may petition the university for reinstatement in three years. Although Alpha Phi Alpha president Bill Gaskins called the sanction \detrimental not only to our organization but to the university as a whole,\ Smitb . says the school has . almost wtanimously signalled its supportfor the sanction. The Pitt News went so far as to suggest that the ad'· ministration's hard-line ap- proach wasn't quite hard enougb, but Smith assures that the sanction will serve to preclude otber incidents hap- pening. \We've had a very few minor . ~incidents here, and none of them involved physical brutality,\ he explains. \And I don't expect we'll see any more _for a long time now.\ George Washington tacked a $50 energy surcharge on each student's bill. But necessities have become the mother of invention. These days, colleges are leading the way in patching together in- novative, sometimes-bizarre strategies to keep themselves . warm in the winter, and now · that the seaso11s have changed, cool in the summer. The University _of Alabama, for one, plans to become one of the world's leading producers of methane gas. UCLA is con- sidering drilling for oil under one of its parking lots. Several schools are resorting to re-using cooking oil, lopping down trees around campus, installing different showerheads, and imposing all sorts of other conservation measures. Colgate University in the heavily-wooded area of upstate New York is the one planning to feed itSnew wood-fired boiler with wood scraps from nearby mills. Ohio State's buses have been converted to run on a fuel developed from used cooking oil gathered from dorm kitchens. Idaho and Illinois are planning to re-cook stndent garbage into various forms of·energy. And so it goes. The reason is that the stakes are high.· Administrator James Morrow predicts Colgate will save at least $250,000 per year from its new wood-burning scheme. If the price of fuel oil goes up, Morrow predicts \our savings could be half a million dollars a year, or more.\ At Wells College, a rig drilling into the New York Soil since September recently hit a pocket of natural gas under the campus that has already returned much of the school's $100,000 original investment. Success like that helped convince the University of Alabama to invest $75,000 in a drilling rig, which was set up a month ago. The rig is now probing into sub-campus coal seams that university officials think may hold enough methane gas to make the school a world leader in methane gas production. Though Alabama is withholding its application to OPEC, Everett Brett of the university's School of Mines and Energy Development is con- fident the seams will meet all tbe campus' natural gas needs for the next 30 years. Cash-short administrators are even viewing students as energy sources. The universities of Florida and Maryland, for example, have put engineering and ar- chitecture studep.ts to work to evaluate campus buildings for energy efficiency, and to propose changes in lighting, beating systems and building uses. Carter Smith, Maryland's physical plant engineer, estimates student solutions will save the university 10 percent of its $10 million 1980-81 energy bill. But most administrators are more interested in the gunk and waste students produce as energy sources. The University of Idaho, for example, plans to start conw verting the heaps of student garbage produced in dining halls a11d classroom buildings to energy this year. The aim is to become self-sufficient in steam energy. Idaho paid $4.27 for enough natural gas to produce 1000 lb. of steam heat last year, compared to $2.75 under the Continued on page .z

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS., April $3, 1981 Anton Warde, a representative to the Academic Affairs Council Novel Solutions: \ Few Are Aware of the Work they Do: .. Academic Affairs Council The Academic Affairs CouncU ( AAC) has been meeting in relative obscurity for as long as anyone cares to forget. The Irony of this is ·that the council has been gathedng 'information which Is, or ought to be, Interesting to everyone on campus. Basically the data say the curricula. in an fou·r div·isions of tbe college (.Humanities, Social Sciences, sciences, engineering) suffer .from lack of manpower and other resources. by STEVE AUERBACH • The Council consists of seven professors, three ad- ministrators and four students. Under the governance system it i's specifically charged with the overall review of the Union . college curricUlum as well as specific programs and academic policies. Examples would include such items as specific course approvals, review of transdisciplinary programs, liberal learning, and .the recent ch~ge in pas&fail policy. This change allows students to take a course pass- fail without having to make a justification for doing so. Such courses may not be counted towards the liberal learning program nor towards the student's major. This change full~time computer scientist- engineer. Indeed the nrost serious problem was that of hiring and retaining faculty. To · be put. into proper perspective, it is im~rtant to note that this is a national problem. The fact is that a small fraction of Ph.D. engineers choose teaching as a profession. In particular the problem is one of com- pensation; entry level industry salaries even for people with undergraduate degrees are higher than teaching s8Iaries. Combined with the expense of modern equipment, this presents a serious problem. Campus Energy Problems . was made with the realization that the original intent of pass- fail policy, to encourage student academic experimentation, has not been the actual practice. Other options that have been mentioned included the elimination of the pass~fail option. Also, in reference to the engineering division are questions raised with regard to the evening division and its effect on the regular day program. The humanities division has .also reported serious concerns. Continued from page 1 new system. The figures don't reflect how much Idaho saves in waste disposal. ..,. The University of Illinois is planning to build a giant in- cinerator - at a cost of $15-17 million - to burn some 400 tons of waste daily. It will supply steam to the campus' main power plant. Though such projects might have seemed eccentric just five years ago, the price of energy has pushed ·just about all schools toward ways .of using alternative forms of energy, observes David Waite, Skid- more College's energy con- servation consultant. Waite, whose school has won two awards for energy con- servation project.s and has become a clearinghouse for campus energy ideas, says he's received inquiries from about 250 colleges about how to em- ploy alternative energies. Consequently, he has plenty of examples - from the simple to the outrageous - of campuses struggling to cope in the new era. Iowa State, he says, bought a fleet of small, fuel-efficient cars for campus use. Stanford installed low-flow showerheads (and saved $100,000 in hot water heating.) Skidmore is now honing a plan to burn horse manure to produce methane gas. Skidmore first got into the business when it started buying used crankcase oil from local garages for use in its !Jeating system. The used oil now meets half of the campus' heating needs. Waite pegs the savings at $1500 daily over conventional, new oil. Despite high initial costs to convert to a furnace that could burn the crankcase oil, Waite . brags the system paid for itself in just 42 days. Though the \payback\ has \just been in- credible,\ he says it's not unusual. \Usually it is six to nine months,\ he says. The pace of change, Waite notes, has actually picked up, since President Reagan junked President Carter's thermostat guidelines and decontrolled the· price of domestically-produced gas. But the new systems are not curedalls. \Common sense\ conservation measures at San Diego State decreased natural gas and electricity con- sumption, but the uniyersity's total energy oill still jmnped by $243,000. Robert Downen, campus energy coordinator, promises next year will be \even more brutal.\ Similarly, Ohio State's six- year energy conservation program produced a 34 percent decrease in energy use per square foot, but didn't prevent a doubling of total energy costs over the same period. Wesleyan closed buildings over intersession, and saved $86,000 in December. The bad news was that burst pipes and the costs of fixing them amounted to $18,000. Moreover, campuses using alternative energy sources risk becoming polluters in the process. Illinois recently petitioned, as Yale is considering petitioning, state goverrunents for waivers from sulfur dioxide emission standards. Illinois' coal burner was cited for violating sulfur Pulitzer Fraud Jimmie's story was a fraud. The Washington Post admitted that they had published a story represented as true that was, in fact, not true. There was no question that the paper was at fault. None of the editors tried to confirm the source that Janet Cooke claimed to have. Even com- plaints by various staff members. concerning the validity of what Cooke was claiming did. not prompt the editors to check on the writer, still relatively new to the paper, ·who was writing her first major article. According to the editor of the Washington Post, Benjamin Bradlee, the credibility of a newspaper is its most valuable asset. When it is tarnished by an incident such as this, it must be cleansed as quickly as possible if credibility is to b~ ro.ain~ tained. This means that a full investigation of the problem must be launched and the public told of the findings. The Washington Post was quick to do this, however, I think, that they made one mistake. They absolved Janet Cooke of all responsibility in the affair. This I could understand if the incident war;1 due to a honest mistake on the part of the paper or even on the part of the writer. However, this is not the case. The story, as Cooke admitted, was fabricated. Further, Cooke has on several previous occasions lied con- cerning her educational background. There is no way that it could he construed that this incidence was a mistake. Even so, Janet Cooke has been and continues to be\protected to the upmost, instead of being dealt with as she deserves. It strikes me quite odd that the guilty party is being protected by the paper that is concerned with removing the tarnish from their reputation. After all, she willfully claimed that Jimmy existed. For the sake of the paper, the editors took the blame for the article, not Janet Cooke. Why? regulations. Such conflicts put cost- conscious school officials at odds with their environment- consCious students. Students for Environmental Concerns at Illinois petiti<Jned the state governor to stop the sulfur emissions. ''The plant is located in the heart of the user pop'ulation,\ complained group spokesman Jo-hn Thompson. \That means the plwne {of sulfUF) will drop down right on the population.\ Yale Vice President for Finance and Administration Jerald Stevens predicted Yale could save $265,000 a year by burning sulfurous fuel, and argues the savings make it worth the pollution. He says Yale has met state pollution standards since 1972, hut hasn't helped the state . because 'Pollution from dirtier areas blows over New Haven anyway. \It would be quixotic of Yale to hang onto emission standards lower than other states around us,\ Stevens told the Yale Dany News. To Skidmore's Waite, it's just a matter of waiting until \the bugs get worked out'' of colleges' new energy schemes. The trick, he says,. is to defer new projects until research is done into similar schemes. At · Ohio State, the closing of dorm kitchens ovet winter break resulted in a low supply of used cooking oil for university buses. The problem wouldn't be bad, joked OSU engineering professor Helmuth Engelman, if it wasn't hard to strain out bits of fried chicken from the fuel tanks. ' Of greater significance though, is the ongoing curricular review. The com- mittee has obtained lists of course enrollment::;, broken down statistically in various manners. It has also received program, departmental, and division reports. These documents, prepared by program .. department chair- people and their division representatives to the AAC, explain what their program is doing. Included are faculty loading and specialties, the number of majors and in- terdepartmental majors, and most importantly the specific nature, structure, goals, and problems of their. program. Several general trends have become apparent. . Both the Science ,and Sodal SCience division mention few· problems. Some departments report some degree of faculty teaching burdening overloads, and a need for improved lecture- demonstration facilities. The departments saw a trend also towards applied-vocational concentrations. - The reports that have caused the most discussion are those from the engineering and humanities divisions. Since the early seventies, engineering enrollments have increased dramatically. The. equipment, lab facilities, and computer hardware have been strained, and in some cases is in need of improvement. The faculty is generally teaching severe overloads. The computer facilities are out of date, and the school has had trouble hiring a HOUSING LOTTERY 1981-82 CO-OP Interest Meeting--Apr. 28, 7 p.m., Fox Lounge. Bring ali members of your co-op. DISTRIBUTION OF LOTTERY NUMBERS--May 5--6-8 p.m., Senio-Stage IIi 6-9 p.m., Juniors-Davidson Lounge; 6-9 p.m., Sophomores-Fox Lounge. MUST HAVE YOUR ID. CO-OP LOTTERY--May 11, 7 p.m., Fox Lounge. Bring I D, Lottery Card, members of co-op. SINGLES LOTTERY--May 12, 6:30p.m., Stage 11--Carnegie. Bring ID, Lottery Card. SENIOR LOTTERY DOUBLES & SUITES--May 14, 6:30 p.m., Stage 11--Carnegie. Bring I D, Lottery Card, Ail Roommates. JUNIOR LOTTERY DOUBLES & SUITES--May 19, 6:30 p.m.--Stage 11--Carnegie. Bring ID, Lottery Card, All RoommC~tes. SOPHOMORE! LOTTERY DOUBLES & SUITES--May 21,630 p.m., Stage If--Carnegie. Bring I D, Lattery Card, All Roommates. (Stage II is located next to the Game Room on 3rd floor of Carnegie Hall. Remember ... -·You must have your LD. and lottery card when choosing a room. · --The class member present with the lowest lottery number will have first pick. --The class member with the next lowest lottery number, and present, wHI follow. ··All roommates MUST B.E PRESENT AND SIGN CON· TRACTS when the room or suite is chosen. --Two peopl~ may claim one half of a suite. ··All occupants of a roorn or suite who are found to have cheated will lose aoy rights to the room or suite. Additionally, the person(s) who cheated will be fined $100. The Residence L.ife Office ~ As a whole, the division acts in a \service\ manner, with eighty- eight .percent of enrolhnents being non.,majors. One result of this is that the departments find themselves teaching a disproportionate number of introductory level courses, with a dramatic fall~off in enrollments in upper level courses. This \vas noted too by other \service~' depar,tments such as mathematics and physics. While representative of a national trend, it is felt that this is a particularly serious problem at Union. It represents, some feel, a general trend at Union away from the humanities, and a failure to instill a true liberal art ethic in the community. It is interesting to note· that several divisions noted dissatisfaction with the liberal learning program as it stands. Other problems noted by service departments is the drain and waste - of' -faculty imposed by · teaching ·a disproportionate number of low level courses. Finally, ironically in light of the above, is ~at several departments noted faculty overloading, and there is some statistiCal evidence indicating that Union has proportionally fewer humanities professors than comparable colleges. The art department in particular also has deficient facilities both in its niain building and in the·Nott Memorial Theater. One· of the problems is the trustee mandated. policy of no increase in total faculty, even while the Union Pli,Ogram (and enrollment) has increas.ed. The policy, tinposed for financial reasons, means that any add ditional faculty to one area must, in theory, come from somewhere else. Obviously no department wants to lose faculty. One result of this policy has been the increased use of part-time· adjunct faculty. Nobody is happy about having to rely on such ambiguous, haphazard and uncertain means. Within a department it results in a less collegial at- mosphere. It also means that there is no stability within the given program. Without being able to know for sure what they will be able to offer'a depart- ment cannot plan nor ·can it shape its program effectively. In addition to the above problems, discussion in-the AAC has ··repeatedly focused in on_ such topics as the possible weaknesses in in- terdepartmental majors (whether students were getting any a~equate depth in any area), the status of various transdisciplinary majors and some special programs such as freshman preceptorials and the Steinmetz honors seminars, the liberal learning ,program (what it should be and is ac- compli~h~g) and the effect and Continued on page 1.0 Robert during Uno \A liberal on the social! East G other compa leadst• Artsru see kin~ servicE Tot L

i.~~f:4\ l~::,_ .. ,;.--:~~ ·~_/ ~.~-~;;1 ... .,_, ~ OONOORDIENSIS, April !3, 1981 Page 3 •Lou Grant' Star Here Robert Walden, star of TV series Lou Grant, will speak here during Parent's Weekend. Robert Walden, who plays newspaper reporter Joe Rossi on the television series Lou Grant, will be the speaker Parents Weekend. Sponsored by Speakers' Forum, Walden's talk will begin at 8p.rn. Friday, May 1, in Memorial Chapel. Admission is $1 for Union students and parents (and other members of the campus community), and $1.50 for the general public. · As an actor and as a man, Robert Walden searches for truth. He abhors the inequities in life and is an outspoken crusader for human values. His portrayal of the hard-bitten reporter Joe Rossi on the award-winning \Lou' Grant\ series for CBS is not too far off the real Robert Walden. \I'm not really Joe Rossi,\ says Walden, \but I guess I do infurse a lot of myself into the character. I have to play him younger, a bit vulnerable, rumpled and a little too smart for his britches,. but I find him a totally honest guy with high ideals and impeccable in- tegdty.\ His portrayal of Joe Rossi on \Lou Grant\ has garnered Walden nomtnations for Emmy's in 1979 and 1960. His role has also given him an active interest in journalism that has led to writing assignments with articles published in THE WASHINGTON POST, the SEATTLE TIMES, the SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER, the CHICAGO SUN-TIMES, the CHICAGO TRIBUNE, the Los Angeles ,FREE PRESS, the Los Angeles HERALD EXAMINER (twice), US, NEW YORK and NEW WEST Magazines, among others. He also speaks frequently at college and high school journalism seminars. Walden admits he was precocious, but also laments he sometimes wishes he could achieve on stage today what he could do flat-out when he was seven years old. \I wouldn't just imitate their voices,\ he continues, .. but I would imitate their demeanor, their stage Understood by Few, Pursued by Even Fewer: Communist Studies Major By ANDY SOBEL \A broad, area-oriented liberal arts education focusing on the language, culture, and social system of Russia, China, East Germany, Cuba, or some other communist country, in comparative perspective. It leads to a degree of Bachelor of Arts and is designed for those seeking careers in government service, jourJJ.alism, law, or . Delta Upsilon's 43rd Annual 50's PARTY Tomw. (Friday) at 10 Live DJ 1 Beer I Punch, Door Prizes for Best Costume business.\ This is the Union College catalogts description of Union's most unique major, and one of its most .prestigious: Comparative Communist studies (CCS). But the catalog's description barely touches the surface of the department, the people ifi it, and why they are involved. The program commenced neatly a decade ago, very much a product of the determination of Professor Charles Gati. Prof. Gati, with the support of the then Dean of Faculty Marty Lichterman, sought to set up a CCS program that would combine the disciplines of economics, political science, history, and modern languages; CCS would draw from Union's vast reservoir of learned professors to f()rm a depart- ment with unusual faculty strength. Equally important is the practicality of the discipline. Prof. Stephen Berk, ______ SQlVIl'J\ER SCHOOL 1 The academic summer sessions at Skidmore College offer opportunity to earn college credits in a wide variety of subjects. Session I May 27 -July 3. 1981 Session II July 6 -August 14. 1981 26 Courses 21 Courses -------------------DANCE~~---------- Attend one or more dance sessions either in Sarat~a Springs or in New York City. Faculty are composed of guest artists and ·the Skidmore faculty. A multi.faceted program, including: Modem Technique, Ballet and Pointe Technique, lmprovisa· tion. Workshops, and Special Dance Fonns is offered. . _____ .._ENSEMBI.ETHEATRE------ Perfonnance Art WOJkshop: May 27 - July 3, 1981 The workshop explores performance methods, media and motivation and includes daily training in acting, vocal \\fOrk and design techniques and theory. --~-------------SUMMERS~------------------ SIX 1: May 27 - July 3. 1981 S~ II: July 6 - August 14. 1981 The curriculum includes both Studio and Art History courses. The program will be offered in 2 six·week sessions. ~-------------------PASS'm __________________________ _ July6 ~August 14, 1981 PASS (Program for Acceleration at Skidmore Summer) offers college level courses for ac(ldemic credit to high school students with strong academic records. Enrollment is open to those who have completed ·their Junior year in high school, and to those who will graduate in June. An opportunity to live on campus arid to attend classes with regularly matriculated college students. ,..,. Typically, PASS students enroll in two courses. For further infonnatlon pkiase contact . · . Office of the Dean of Special Programs/ M ~~2~9~]; COL~};~ director of the program, has said that \an enormous per- centage of the world's · population lives in a Communist system. For example, the world's most populated coun- try, the People's Republic of China, is Communist, as is one of the world's two superpowers, the Soviet Union. On a more relative basis, an un- derstanding of Communism is necessary for Americans, as we have been in one type of conflict or another with the Soviet Union since 1945. It's hard to deal with other cultures in a responsible fashion withOut some un- derstanding of them.'' Part of this understanding of other cultures means speaking and exploring their languages. The language requirements of the CCS program, at least 4 courses, is however, at the same time, the major's most controversial aspect. With the educational de-emphasis of languages in a computer age, disciplines with language requirements are going to suffer. Perhaps it is the reason that CCS has, at the present time, 5 students, with 3 being graduating seniors. Prof. Berk, however, says that ''the language requirements are precisely what gives this program its strength; you can't find a CCS program better anywhere in the country (this . includes Washington University and Georgetown University).\ Prof. Gati admits that while\ there are not enough majors, CCS was never intended to compete with some of Union's various larger departments.'' Lisa Ryan, a sophomore CCS major, feels that \if you are truly committedto the study of Moo.. f!Hf'~ Communist systems, then you should be eager to learn their languages, and they (the requirements) should not be a barrier to entrance.\ But what does CCS prepare us for, the student? Neil Cabrol, whose thesis was entitled ''The Ties That Bind: the East European Route of the New Soviet Policy towards the Third World'' is currently preparing for the Foreign Service. Examination, and he ls ap- plying· to the CIA. Eventually Neil, like fellow CCS major Bob Smalley, plans to go on to a Masters program in Inter- national Relations. Vicki Soli, whose thesis dealt with the roles portrayed by Chinese and Russian women revolutionaries in their perspective Communist revolutionary periods, will be taking the business route; Vicki will be portraying her skills in the import-export sector, or possibly in International Banking. Andy Sobel, whOse interests are in the Eurocom- munist phenomena, will also be taking the International Management route. Lisa Ryan sees herself pursuing further education in the field of International Affairs upon graduation in 1983. With the publication next year of the pamphlet \Communist Studies at Union\ the· department hopes to attract more students to the field. J If anyone is interested in Comparative Communist studies as a potential major, or you just have general questions concerningthe topic, feel free to contact any of the five students mentioned above, or Professors Berk, Gati, Hansen, Reynolds, Sharlet, or Thurston. 1115 BARREll ST. SCHENECTADY PHONU77 -2642 or 382-8684 Homestyle Italian Cooking Salad Bar Included with All Pasta & All Dinners Reasonable prices Plus a 10% Discount to Union College Students with IDs Banquet Facilities affectations, their body postures. Some people thought I was a midget - I certainly had guts.\ He had no thoughts then that he would be come an actor. He just performed for his friends, neighbors, family and at sUIIlltler camp. \It was fun, my folks got a big kick out of it, and I made a lot of new friends through performing.\ When Walden reached high school, he lost interest in per- formlng and instead channeled his energies into music. He had a rock 'n roll group because he loved to sing. He went to the all- boys Stuyvesant High School, a math and science school. His interests also turned tuports. Walden was teaching during the day and appearing nightly in \One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.\ That ledtoa regular role on \The Bold Ones\ tele:vision series. His motion pictures-for· television include, most recently, \Enola Gay\ which will air during the 1980-81 season and in which he plays the role of Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer, father of the atomic bomb. He has also guest- starred on series such as \Medical Center'', \The Rookies\ \The Streets of San Francisco\ \Rhoda\ and \Police Story.\ He portrayed Donald Segretti in the award-winning feature film \All the President's Men.\ His other motion pictures in- clude \Rage \The Out of Towners,\ \Pigeons \New York, New York,\ \Capricorn One\ and .... Audrey Rose.\ Walden is 5'9\ tall, weighs 145 pounds and has light brown hair and blue eyes. He is an avid ice hockey fan, enjoys tennis, basketball and jogging. He is single and lives in Studio City, California, five minutes from the MTM Studios. Parents Weekend activities will also include a campus jog at 9 a.m. Saturday, May 2, departmental receptions from 10 a.m. to noon Saturday, and the president's reception at 2 p.m. Saturday in Jackson's Garden. Prize Day ceremonies will be held at 11:30 a.m. Saturday in Memorial Chapel, and a Glee Club concert, featuring several Men's Glee Club \alumni will be held in the Chapel at 8 p.m. that evening. A family brunch will begin at 10:30 a.m. Sunday, May 3. A complete schedule of Parents Weekend events will be listed in the May 1 issue of the Chronicle. This Weekend at the Dutch Hollow Pub Friday Dinner 5-7 Drink. Special-- Sombreros 90 cents Saturday P.iz:r.a & Beer 5-11 Drink Special--All Whiskey Drinks 90 cents Appearing this Saturday: Doctor Mark Steven Morton Magician Extraordinaire 9:30-1:30 SEE YOU THERE!

~ 0 - 0 5: Page 4 OONOORDIEN8IS, April 29, 1981 eatures Garne·t Seeks Interest Garnet Editor, JeH Cappelle, wants to get the campus in- terested. . Over the past few years, many students have wondered what the Garnet is all about. In short it is the college yearbook. Its purpose is to provide the campus comrnllility with an accurate representation of the college year via pictures, writing, and graphics. This is no easy task for the active members. The Garnet, a little known orgaoization has been forced to face many pro blerns dealing with the nature of the campus community. Most importantly, they encounter a lack of interest within the student body. This is especially true amongst the seniors. Though the book is dedicated to the seniors, this year, only a Blue Skies Over Union: Transcendental Expectations By D. BOOTH Since the discovery of America, the striking out for the frontier. the searching for new adventures, has been a constant desire for Americans. In recent years U has become, to the distress and discomfort of many, increasingly evident that America's traditional frontiers have disappearec (with the possible exception of space, a frontier wllich has not yet opened). Yet the feeling of being in the world of the fron- tiersman, the pathfinder, may still be recreated by leaving the world we live in and heading for the wilderness which still exists in the various state parks and state-owned land. There is nothing more romantic and enjoyable than packing a few necessities and going off to the Adirondacks. One of the nice things about a trip like this is that it can match the temperment of the in- dividuii~o~ved. For example, if he or she \Wrsn~ to etfloy the- wilderness in the utmost comfort, they can take a tent and bring their own food. Others might prefer the luxury of fishing or hunting for their food, as well as tracking down the elusive wild vegetable. But I do not mean this column to be a guidebook of what to take on such a camping ad- venture, or even where to go, but rather a simple descriotion of some of my more tran- scendental experiences, ex- periences which transported me beyond my existence to a simpler time. By simpler, I mean simpler in the sense that the struggle was not a struggle for \finding oneself' but a struggle to keep that self alive .. This was a daily world where simple survival was the only thing which mattered, and the quiet times which I am going to describe were few and far between, thus treasured an the more. Personally, I like the mountains. There is always that feel of crisp fresh air, and an altitude which forces one to take that deeper breath. When I last went to the mountains, it was still cold, but the ice had just melted, and the lakes were but a reflection of the mountains. I and my companion, paddled our canoe silently in the quiet dusk across the lake. We stopped, and, pulling our canoe ashore, set up camp in a small pine grove. Pine has a wonderful crisp smell, and the crackling and snapping of the logs in a fire make it the picture-perfect campfire wood. I cooked dinner (cornish game hens roasted on a spit, stuffed with apples and wild onions) while my com- panion, an intrepid and in· defatigable artist, crept close to some nesting ducks for some sketches. After dinner, we sat back and watched the stars wheeling over head. Away from the lwninescence of city lights the stars seem to shine brighter, and looking up through the dark boughs of pine it was easy to imagine falling upwards through an· open door, a door to another way of life. We each had a cup of extra-thick coffee with a .drollop of brandy and a layer of cream across the top. To feel the cold air against the back, while the fire warmed the feet, made the taste of coffee soothing and relaxirig. · And then the cold morning, being awakened by the sound of birds then laying .awake, listening to the lapping of the water on the shore debati11g whether to rise. I have found it difficult to bathe in lakes, only because the temperature is prohibitably cold, but I force myself, and then attempt to shave with my sheath knife. Then another day of canoeing, another night of stars and firelight. Compared to most of my articles, this one has not really been a description of how to do something, but rather how a certain experience felt to me. But in its own way this ex- perience has become im- portant; important in molding my values, and in determining my attitudes. The mountains await, so do as I am going to, as I must do, escape into another life, a weekend of seclu8ion and stars. HAVE A SPECIAL TIME AT.: • •• Bon Appetit Union ' Open Tues. • Sat. 8:00 a.m. · 5:30 p.m. Ia Patisserie is a French Pastry Shop and prides itself on fine quality and a distinguished product line of baked goods. Then~ are assorted Danish, cream puffs, sticky buns, tortes, cookies, assorted cheesecakes in addition to other fine pastries. In addition, Ia Patisserie offers table service at our 'PASTRY CAFE' Enjoy slices of cheesecake, cream puffs~ tortes and other cakes, Danish and croissants complemented with a cup of coffee, tea or milk. Ia Patisserie also prepares cakes~ tortes, etc. for your special occasion. open for all 'Just off Rrn.ndu111V' small handful nave shown any interest in their book. The coordinating editpr is especially bothered With this. Last year's book was severely critj.cized by a great number of students. Overall few have shown any interest In correcting this problem. With only a small number of students working on the book it is not probable that it wHl provi9e an accurate representation of the entire campus. This year~ in an attempt to generate interest, the staff has developed a theme whiCh they had hopef:l would provide the impetus for response from the campus commWlity to get in- volved and make the hook their own. Thus far, little interest has been generated. The theme revolves around the concept of dealing with Unions relationship to the outside world. The book will be divided into three sections; fall, winter and spring. The sections are designecl to re.present Union's role in the past, present and future of the college and the world in which it ,exists. This theme allows room for a great deal of cr~ative expression and experimentation. Yet still, few students have provided any inputs for this community endeavor. Not only amateur but totally inei;perienced photographers are invited not only to submit pictures, but to come learn dark room skills and help out. Artists and writers striving for an outlet can find one in the Garnet. Frustrated engineers and tyPists can draw boxes and type to· their hearts content. In short, this is an organization that everyone can be involved with. Meetings are held every Sunday at 4:00 and on Thursdays at 7:30 in the Garnet Room on the top floor of Carnegie. lf anyone is in- terested they are to come see what the· Garnet's all abou~. Croquet for Charity By STEVE There must be something in the air. No sooner had the Delta Chi Fraternity, at their house meeting on Monday Apfil 13, concluded that · the fraternity . would sponsor a Croquet Tournament for charity than D. Booth's article on the subject appeared in last week's Con- cordy. Far from being a coin- cidence (which it was. as the shocked brotherhood will at- test) , the appearance of that article is a strong indication that there is a feeling in the air that something truly ex- traordinary, truly great, truly traditional is about to take place. And what game is far and away the obvious choice to celebrate the rites of spring and to incorporate all members of the college community-young and old alike-in the celebration of the~e rites than the venerated game of croquet. Yes, enthusiasm is at a peak as every individual who is made aware of the upcoming Croquet Tournament is immediately enamored with the idea and asks innumerable questions about the competition; and just how he or she can secure a spot in the day's activities. So here now we present the details .and invite the entire college com- munity to join us in our efforts to celebrate the fine art of leisure and in the process help out a needy cause. (In other words, here's your chance to do practically nothing while aoing something worthwhile for someone who needs it.) Friday preceding the Tour- nament. Participants will be invited to the chapter house for cocktails the Saturday evening before the match. The tour- - -nament wm be. •, a non~ .discrhninating • lad9er type competition. For example, team A will play team B, team C will ·play team D, and the winners will play each other (you get the idea). Teams will be supplied with croquet equipment, the standard croquet refreshment (the mint julep--another amazing D. Booth coincidence), and lawn chairs for the interludes bet- ween matches. Participants will be required to dress in spring semi-formal attire; bonus points will be awarded for the most fitting dress. ~0 FOUL LANGUAGE OR UN- SEEMLY CONDUCT WlLL BE TOLERATED, the judges will be empowered to enforce this rule-with the subtraction of points or, in extreme cases, elimination. Prizes will be awarded-at the end of the day and most of the contestants will walk away with something or other. \ At this point, the Delta Chi fraternity reminds those in- terested that we .are serious about this whole thing; this is not a satire or jest of any sort. At the same time, it is hoped that the prospective contestants understand that this seriousness is meant in good fun and that we are not croquet purists. Everyone is welcome to come witness the events of the day, drink with the participants The Delta Chi Croquet (mint julips, chablis, premiwn Tournament will be held Sun- beer, ahd other suitable day, May 10 on a suitable lawn refreshments will be served to be announced at a later date. throughout the day), and to The rain date will be the have a truly magnificent, following Sunday. The .Tom- traditional Sunday afternoon. nament will begin at 1:00 PM For those who wish to get their (ish) and conclude when a entries in quick, phone 382-8973 viqor emerges later in. the or 346-2468 and ask for Steve at afternoon. Each team will. either number. If you don't like consist of four players, with an phones, drop up at the house entrance fee of $10 per team, and ask any brother for details. with all proceeds going .to the He'll be more than willing to American Cancer Society. talk to you. We're already Anyone may enter a team, with practically brimming with all team entries due by the croquet fever. ,.., ~ ,' ,. , k l ., .. ·~1· \iiJ~' 'u .. \'•'~-<O·v\':~· , •• /•I i l. -1· •\~: RecE from · .from tl where worki11 butz reUgh farm) Afte1 tour of droppE please: helped preher of ow dissip~ accust ·Of life. A d unlike norma hours tensivl weeki day w sis ted cows, chlck4 and'. k relatel was a acade Altho1 challe a feeli the en Ano1 .exper ternat partie : *~ l Jl Q. gr Ju Ji.i JL R1 D T• F1 v E T' w + p S1 B ir H s F c B c s

CONOOEDIENSIS, April B3# 1981 Page 5 -feature \ ..- KihbutziD.g Around Recently, a group of students .from Union College returned Jrom the term abroad in Israel, where they spent 10 weeks working and learning on. Kib- butz :Seerot Yltzchok, a reUgious Kibbutz {collective .farm) near Tel Aviv. After a comprehensive 3 day tour of Israel, the students were dropped off at the Kibbutz to a pleasant welcome, which· helped calm our initial ap- prehension. By the second week of our .stay, our fears had dissipated and we had become accustomed to the Kibbutz way of life. There were representatives from 23 nations including Iran, Italy, Ethiopia, Tuntaia, En:gland, France, Holland, Australia-and Queens. At times it was difficult to communicate with each other, but as Hebrew studies progressed, com- munication was made easier. There were three levels .of . Hebrew study, and small classes which adapted to meet everyone's needs. , A final aspect which made kibbutz life more enjoyable was the adoption of kibbutz families. Having a place to go to talk, eat, and relax made each of us feel more a part of the kibbutz community . Mike Goldaber, when asked to evaluate the program said, ''Although it was difficult at first, it turned out to be one of the best experiences of my 1if , ' e. There will be a meeting tod.ay, April 23 in SS115 to discuss Israel 1982. For in- formation contact Professor Berk. Members of the kibbutz will be present to answer questions. Sharon Camins, Daryl Seife, Bruce Goldsteifl, Sharon Gordonson, Bart Steinberg are ruugging it up on the'Siraits of Tiran, Sinai. A day on Kibbutz is quite unlike that at Union College. A normal day consists of about 4 hours of work, 4 hours of in- tensive Hebrew, on a 6 day per week basis; and on the seventh day we rest. Daily work con- sisted of picking fruit, milking cows, caring for turkeys and chlckens, field maintenance and' kitchen work. The group related that work on the Kibbutz was a welcome break from the academic life at Union. Although . the work was challenging at times, it gave us a feeling of accomplishment at the end of the term. Although much of our time was spent on the Kibbutz,. we were able to tour extensively on our own as well as on tours provided by the Kibbutz. Daryl Seife states, \When travelling through Israel, not only were we inspired by the nation's historical aspects, but also we got a feeling for the strong cultural he:dtage that is sbared by the people .of this small but strong nation.\ Intellectual · Cabaret The Intellectual Cabaret Huntley moderated the Memorial, the h..'()using crunch, and the reputatio:n of Union were all topics tllat were discussed by the adnlinistrators and the students. ·The Kibbutz organized diversified activities for the group, · which included basketball, tennis, lecture, and Israeli dancing. On numerous occasions we went to the modern city of Tel Aviv, the ancient city of Jerusalem, or just lounged on a Mediterranean beach. Our stay on the kibbutz also included a three day seminar in Jerusalem, which we all found rewarding. Committee held a '\Meet the evening's discussion. Administration'·' cabaret , The first surprise of the Another aspect of our Kibbutz .experience was the in- ternational flavour of the other participants in the program. Monday night, giving students a evening was that the Dean of chance to ask any questions Students, (Robert Kellett) was they had for the representatives in Georgia Monday night, in- of the administration on the stead of in the Cabaret Room. panel. Representing the. ad- Members of the Intellectual ministration were President Cabaret Committee were not John Morris, Vice President for told that Dean Kellett was Academic Affairs Thomas canceling out of his comm D'Andrea, Director of mitment until the day of the Residence Life Dave Wood, and event, when it was too late to Assistant Dean of Students change the publicity, and, even Michael Andolina. Dr. C. W. then, they found out through an I ****************************************** indirect source. Undoubtedly ,th~ most controversial member of the administration scheduled to show up, Dean Kellett's failure to announce his can- cellation earlier was a· disap- pointplent ·to the many mem- bers of the audience who came to ask him specific questions. While Michael Andolina an- swered questions extremely More important than any single answer t() any specific question, thou~h~ was the general tone of the :meeting. All of the administxators present were open and dired with their answers, whether the answers were what the sturlents wanted to hear or not. \'nile it is ex- tremely doubt.ful that the students who questioned the discouragement ()£ drink :;~pecials or tile policy of charging studenb()n the Israeli Term Abroad an amount totally unrelated to til~ C()St of the program left the Cabaret Room in total . agreement with the administration, the tone of the evening was sue~ that most students realize(! that the ad- ministrators are straight- forward individtuls working for the betterment of Union. College, instead of the dictators of campus p()lie!y students sometimes envision them to be. Monday night' s lntellectual Cabaret was 'll rambling discussion of administrative policy which served to make the administrators ~h() sh()wed up seem hmnan and approachable. Dutch Hollow Pub Presents Special Parents Weekend Menu- Lighter Fares at the Pub ' JUMBO HAMBURGERS Quarter pound of lean 1QO pet. beef, grilled to perfection Jumbo Burger w. Lettuce & Tomato Jumbow. Sour Cream & Mushrooms Jumbo Bacon Cheeseburger Reg. Hamburgerfor lighter appetite HOT SANDWICH SPECIAL French Dip Sandwich Rare Roast Beef on a crispy roll w-Garlic butter & natural-juices DELUXE SANDWICHES+ Tender young white meat Turkey Freshly roasted Virginia Style Glazed Ham Egg Salad, made fresh daily 1.80 ·2.00 2.10 2.15 .96 2.00 1.80 1.75 1.20 Tuna Salad, a tasty treat from the sea w. Mayo&. Chopped Celery 1:70 +Served on your choice of bread or roll wtth potato chips and dill pickle. SOUPS Baked French Onion Soup Au Gratin in individual casseroles Homemade soup of the day SALAD BAR 1.50 .75 2.25 Entrees N.Y. StRLOIN STEAK Thick and juicy, broiled to perfection ROAST PRIME RIBS OF BEEF Cut the way you like it: King Cut Queen Cut LONDON BROIL Marinat_ed to perfection, served w. hot garlic butter on toast IJEEF KABOBS 9.25 10.95 9.50 6.25 Marinated Beef cubes w. sautedmushroo'Tls, peppers, onion, & cherry tomatoes, broiled on a skewer to a tangy taste 6.25 RIBS AND STUFFED SHRIMP Tender rib & two jumbo stuffed shrimp CHICKEN PARMESAN Deep fried fillet with zesty tomato sauce, topped w. mozzarella cheese 5.75 From the Sea BROILED SCROD In lemon butter, · melts in your mouth BROILED SCALLOPS Tender, sweet, in a delicate wine & butter sauce BAKED STUFFED SHRIMP Four jumbo shrimp w. crabmeatstuff.ing 5.25 8.00 8.75 Hours:· FRIDAY, May 1, 1981·-Lunch 11:30 am-1 pm; Dinner 5 pm-8 pm (Reservations only) SATURDAY, MAY 2, 1981--Contlnental Breakfast 8 am-11 am; Lunch 11: 30 am-1 pm; Dinner 5 pm-8 pm (Reservations only) SUNDAY, MAY 3, 1981--Champagne Brunch 1-1 am-1 pm RESERVATIONS MAY BE MADE BY CALLING (518) 370-6051. West College Dining Hall Sunday, May 3, 1981 Family Brunch 10:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. ****************************************** well, Dean Kellett's absence surprised all and angered many. The questions handled by the administrators who did show up Monday night covered issues ranging from the rise in engineering courses being taught at night to the cost of the term abroad in Israel. The future of sports at Union, the restoration of the Nott Are You Interested in a Poli1ical Internship for Next Year? I Come to an Internship Panel Thursday, April 30, 4:30 p.n. Strauss Lounge Internships to Be Discussed: --Albany Government --Washington DC T~rm with Union --Summer Internships (Washington) --Public Interest Internships ( Was hi n~ton) All are welcome! Refreshments serV'Ed. Be ahead of the game and find out how to get the internship you want. Sponsored by :Political Forum. 464 State St. we deliver Schenectad1 ·:JM-1888

Page 6 CONOORDIENSIS, April sa, 1981 Editorial Holier Than Thou They are our el,ected officials. We, the student body, voted for them. Because of the ramific:atlons of certain trivial events, a serious look has to be taken at the Student Forum and a careful evaluation has to be made of their role in the extra-curricular affairs,of the students on this campus. The Student Forum has the power and the nerve to sit in a meeting and tell the Editors-in-Chief of CONCORDIENSIS that they shouldn't provide pizza ~md soda for the staff on 'Tuesday nights, when we go to print. They had the nerve to hand down this decision while consuming beer and potato chips that were left over from another student meeting. The President of the Forum was not amusing when he \jokingly\ hid the bottle of beer in his lap. We were not pleased. Nor were we pleased with the informal atmosphere of the meeting. President O'Connor was extremely free with opinions from the chair, to the ~xtent that he took it upon himself to provide concluding remarks and call the question all in one feU swoop, and of his own ac,cord. This is no way to conduct a Student Forum meeting. The reasons that the Editors-in-Chief have been attending Student Forum meetings with amazing regularity is because we have been defending the rights- of student organizations. At the end of last term, there was a large controversy over funding for Union Vieu's. The way that the editors of Union Views had to justify themselves was ridiculous. In our opinion, it was not the function of the Student Forum to judge whether Union Views was a valid publication, but whether or not the monies were available for funding .. In the end, the Forum agreed to fund Union Views. The discussion that wasted everyone's time centered around this justification instead of the money question. What we oppose are the moral guidelines being set by the Forum for various committees. The specific issue regarding CONCORDIENSIS centered upon the desire of the Editorial Board to have pizza and soda available to all members of the paper on Tuesday nights. The pizza would not come out of the Forum budget for OONOORDIENSIS, but would be received as partial payment for advertising space. The financial aspect of the issue was never a question; the arrangement was one that would have benefitted the Food Service and the newspaper as well. CONCORDIENSIS has exceeded its projected advertising income for this year. It is not as if we needed to ask Student Forum for previously unrequested money to pay for the pizza. The pizza would come in the form of advertising money that we, due to our own efforts, have generated in excess. So what was the problem? Student Forum did not like the idea of CON· CORDIENSIS members being \paid\ for their work. This is the moral issue that became the focus of discussion, similar to the moral justification that Union Views had to make. What we don't understand is the arbitrary moralizing of the Forum in their decision. It is easy to cite groups that have built-in \payment\ for their work. Glee Club members have meals paid for, and rightly so, when they give a concert off campus. Many organizations that need not be named here have parties for their membership. Members of the Concert Committee enjoy \free'' concerts (but they're also working damn hard putting the show together), members of the Film Committee enjoy \free\ movies (but they have to put up with all the hassles). Every committee has some form of \fringe benefit\ that is inherent in the committee. We are not asking for \payment\ for what we do up at the CONCORDIENSIS office, we are simply asking for the Forum to acknowledge the pizza payment of the Food Service ad as an inherent fringe benefit of working on the newspaper. If the Concert Committee didn'torganize any concerts, the committee mem.bers couldn't go to them; if CONOORDIENSIS can't keep the Food Service as an advertiser, we lose the pizza. We are not implying that the Film Committee projectionist should pay for the movies that he or she sees. What we are pointing out is that the Forum cannot hope to oversee financial decisions that should be left to the com- mittees themselves. If the Orientation or Parent's Weekend Committee members are up until four in the morning working, there shouldn't be a federal case made out of ordering a few cups of coffee and putting it on the budget. That is not to say that if a committee needs additional funds for such ''luxuries'' that Forum should not be required to regulate it. What we are most dismayed at is the Forum's insistence on determining what is morally right or wrong for a committee to do concerning trivial matters. Certainly it is Forum's responsibility to see to it that there are no gross misuses of Forum funds. What we were asking for is permission to use money that we have generatf}d through advertising far pizza which would become apart of the production of the paper. The decision of the Forum must be questioned. No bylaws exist as of yet to set the responsibilities and-powers of the }finance Committee, therefore can they legally do anything even if they wantto? These are questions that deserve answers. Student Forum should temper their moral crusade. If they don't, they must be prepared to examine carefully the way each and every organization on campus spends their money. This we feel would be a waste of everyone's time, most of all t-he time of the Finance Committee. We are making no moral judgement on the fact that Forum had beer at one of their meetings. But we feel that we would be totally justified in asking to see the receipts for the beer and potato chips. We won't. That's trivial. It was hardly infringing on the rights of others, or the Forum budget {we think). Nor were we violating our budget when we agreed to accept payment in pizza. What made OON- OORDIENSIS morally wrong? What were we gUilty of that so many other--- campus organizations are not? , The editors of OONCORDIENSIS are naturally biased-in their view of this particular issue. The only other opinion that we have received is that of the Student Forum. We are -asking for the opinions of others on campus who can provide insight into the situation. Student Forum should reevaluate exactly what it is they're. supposed to be deciding at their meetings. As far as their beer and our pizza are concerned, ''let he who is without sin cast the first stone.'' Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor · Features Editors , Arts & Cultures Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Paul Grossman, Rachel I. Mandel Julie Isgro Dogna Creeley Joe MagUire Naomi Blank Dan Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Cory LewkoWicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner Jeff Scardino Ellen Berger Sports Photo Editor Business Editor Subscriptions Cartoonist Lisa Snyder Steve Auerbach, Stew Bober, Jack Connors, Dean Kawi, Steve Meyers, Rob Norton, George Oberstadt, Chris Phelan, Dan Rosenfield, Dan Ryan, MikeSaccocio, Cindy Tenner, Staff Geoff Youngman . Photo Staff Charis Richards, Kent Avery, A.J. D'Angelo CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 ·Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as th.ird class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, 4elivered anywhere in tne United States. Concordiensis subscribes to the College Pr~ss Ser.:vice (CPS). l.

Page 6 CONCORDlENSIS, April ~3, 1981 Editorial Holier Than Thou They are our elected officials. We, the student body, voted for them. Because of the ramifications of certain trivial events, a serious look has to be taken at the Student Forum and a careful evaluation has to be made of their role in the extra-curricular affairs of the students on this campus. The Student Forum has the power and the nerve to sit in a meeting and tell • he Editors-in-Chief of CONCORDIENSIS that they shouldn't provide pizza .md soda for the staff on Tuesday nights, when we go to print. They had the r1erve to hand down this decision while consuming beer and potato chips that were left over from another student meeting. The President of the Forum was not amusing when he ''jokingly\ hid the bottle of beer in his lap. We were not pleased. Nor were we pleased with the informal atmosphere of the meeting. f'resident O'Connor was extremely free with opinions from the chair, to the t>xtent that he took it upon himself to provide concluding remarks and call the question all in one fell swoop, and of his own accord. This is no way to conduct a Student Forum meeting. The reasons that the Editors-in-Chief have been attending Student Forum meetings with amazing regularity is because we have been defending the rights of student organizations. At the end of last term, there was a large controversy over ftmding for Union Views. The way that the editors of Union Views had to justify themselves was ridiculous. In our opinion, it was not the function of the Student Forum to judge whether Union Views was a valid publication, but whether or not the monies were available for funding. In the end, the Forum agreed to fund Union Views. The discussion that wasted everyone's time centered around this justification instead of the money question. What we oppose are the moral guidelines being set by the Forum for various committees. The specific issue regarding CONCORDIENSIS centered upon the desire of the Editorial Board to have pizza and soda available to all members of the paper on Tuesday nights. The pizza would not come out of the Forum budget for CONCORDIENSIS, but would be received as partial payment for advertising space. The financial aspect of the issue was never a question; the arrangement was one that would have benefitted the Food Service and the newspaper as well. CONCORDIENSIS has exceeded its projected advertising income for this year. It is not as if we needed to ask Student Forum for previously unrequested money to pay for the pizza. The pizza would come in the form of advertising money that we, due to our own efforts, have generated in excess. So what was the problem? Student Forum did not like the idea of CON· CORDIENSIS members being \paid\ for their work. This is the moral issue that became the focus of discussion, similar to the moral justification that Union Views had to make. What we don't understand is the arbitrary moralizing of the Forum in their decision. It is easy to cite groups that have built-in \payment\ for their work. Glee Club members have meals paid for, and rightly so, when they give a concert off campus. Many organizations that need not be named here have parties for their membership. Members of the Concert Committee enjoy \free\ concerts (but they're also working damn hard putting the show together), members of the Film Committee enjoy \free\ movies (but they have to put up with all the hassles). Every committee has some form of \fringe benefit\ that is inherent in the committee. We are not asking for \payment\ for what we do up at the CONCORDIENSIS office, we are simply asking for the Forum to acknowledge the pizza payment of the Food Service ad as an inherent fringe benefit of working on the newspaper. If the Concert Committee didn't organize any concerts, the committee members couldn't go to them; if CONCORDIENSIS can't keep the Food Service as an advertiser, we lose the pizza. We are not implying that the Film Committee projectionist should pay for the movies that he or she sees. What we are pointing out i~ that the Forum cannot hope to oversee financial decisions that should be left to the com- mittees themselves. If the Orientation or Parent's Weekend Committee members are up until four in the morning working, there shouldn't be a federal case made out of orderibg a few cups of coffee and putting it on the budget. That is not to say that if a committee needs additional funds for such ''luxuries'' that Forum should not be required to regulate it. What we are most dismayed at is the Forum's insistence on determining what is morally right or wrong for a committee to do concerning trivial matters. Certainly it is Forum's responsibility to see to it that there are no gross misuses of Forum funds. What we were asking for is permission to use money that we have generat~d through advertising for pizza which would become a part of the production of the paper. The decision of the Forum must be questioned. No bylaws exist as of yet to set the responsibilities and powers of the Finance Committee, therefore can they legally do anything even if they want to? These are questions that deserve answers. Student Forum should temper their moral crusade. If they don't, they must be prepared to examine carefully the way each and every organization on campus spends their money. This we feel would be a waste of everyone's time, most of all the time of the Finance Committee. We are making no moral judgement on the fact that Forum had beer at one of their meetings. But we feel that we would be totally justified in asking to see the receipts for the beer and potato chips. We won't. That's trivial. It was hardly infringing on the rights of others, or the Forum budget (we think). Nor were we violating our budget when we agreed to accept payment in pizza. What made OON· CORDIENSIS morally wrong? What were we guilty of that so many other campus organizations are not? The editors of CONCORDIENSIS are naturally biased in their view of this particular issue. The only other opinion that we have received is that of the Student Forum. We are asking for the opinions of others on campus who can provide insight into the situation. Student Forum should reevaluate exactly what it is they're supposed to be deciding at their meetings. As far as their beer and our pizza are concerned, ''let he who is without sin cast the first stone.\ L ·.· . . ·tt.····.· t' ·.··.t· ... n.·. '.···r·.· .·. • .. ·--.y.: ' ·-- . 0 Concert Neglected help· of m~n\bers pf the caunpus community. Cabaret reports to as each week about what· they're doing andwho;s going to be in the show. The editor's note To the Editors, The Coneordiensis of April 16 neglected to mention the per- • formance of King David which - last week asked that we \be met halfway\. Most of the articles that concern campus groups are written'\ by members of the group. Stop getting angry at us. We don't mean to slight any of the clubs on campus. Come see us and we'll arrange something. 'We will try harder, but you've got to as well . · took place on April12. This was an important ~vent not only for the participants, the m~mbers : of the Union College W()men's · Glee Club~ but also for -the . college community. Honegger's 1921 musical story of King David was· narrated by a prominent singer, Betty Allen, and had orchestral ac- companiment. Neglecting the · event completely was a serious oversight of a campus newspaper. A journal, wbich serves to keep the coiDinunity iJlf()rmed of past and future · events, and ().f current opinions should cover such an eve.nt. The concert was publicized; ·it was · no secret. The group per- f'Orming consisted nf students . who devoted a gre.at deal of their time and efhrt into ' producing !Wmdhing which they were proud to perform for others. A newspaper thai can thoroughly review a weekly Qibaret can certainly cover a 'major event such as a per- formance of King David. It is_ also surprising to note that a similar complaint {If lack of coverage came from the Jazz Ensemble in the April 9th issue. What is needed to secure proper . coverage? Is it necessary for a group to speeifically infGrm the Concordiensis of an activity? (I ·.don't see why this would be· ·necessary if the event is already · publiciZed around campU$.) · If · the Co•e•rdiensis gas a policy concerning revieyv:s:-. ~c. and cov¢rage, ·it sho'dld inf~m the leaders Of the student actiVities on campus of such a policy. . jMistaiw,s ~~this one shl!utu n9t happen again •. Enrroa~s NOTE! Wetry.t& eGvEr everytbingon campus but we can,t. It's not that w~ don't want to .• We have a limitad staff. One of our first reqtiests as new editors was that we needed ttre Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editors , Arts & Cultures Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor SAC Resp,onds To the Editors, It is to the detriment of the campus community that in- dividuals respond to articles without ful~ knowledge of the situation. My spedfic cQncern is the letter to the editors entitled \Decision to Scrap Survey Questioned.\ To begin 'With, do we not all remember the initial purpose of the Alcohol Survey? If no~ I will be happy to set the record straight for those who have forgotten-the survey was to solicit resp<mses with respecct to perceptions of the use of alcohol on campus and not to be used as a tool to set policy. Would not the response to the. survey be biased if it were to be used to set policy? It would be absurd for anyone to think otherwise. It ls definitely agreed up<m that an alcohol policy is necessary. The propqsal is not to restrict 01' prohibit the consU1}1Pti~n of alcQhol, but to ensure tnattl\e Institution takes a. responsible position with regard to alcohol. The in- stitution is not just the Ad- rWPistratiQJ;l, a$ som.e would n~:ve it, Qt¢ 4Jl of .us who ar~ ru~J;Il~rs of the Union Coli()~ CommunitY.· . . · · . - . Th~ $AC i$ a policy making council that consiStS ·of '. Adk mmistrati$n; · · Faculty, ·and Students; . It would be £.oolish to · assw:ne student interests are not repr~nted, Five students, of· whom three at·e elected by each class. ·are members ac .. Paul Grossman, Rachel I. Mandel Julie Isgro Donna Creeley Joe Maguire Naominlank Dan Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner Jeff Scardino Ellen Berger Sports Photo Editor Business Editor Subscriptions Cartoonist Lisa Snyder Steve Auerbach, Stew Bober, Jack Connors, Dean Kawi, Steve Meyers, Rob Norton, George Oberstadt, Chris Phelan, Dan Rosenfield, Dan Ryan, Mike Saccocio, Cindy Tenner, Geoff Youngman Charis Richards, Kent Avery, A.J. D'Angelo Staff Photo Staff CONCORDIENSIS is pablished every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in . the Schenectady Post Office as third cla~s matter. Subscr~ption rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere m the United States. Concordiensis subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS). An~ to tt 1\l trag enit CoU Con deli' thei aea· aca4 at 1 tati< acti· a ' prm: AI cow bee1 0riE eac meE stuc ate the .. qu.ei dutJ ·be ... i ·r: :r~ ~~~ P:, p~,e (jQ res aca T: Ad\ Qtie me• sp~ .... atti· thei COO] and le~u Vi ava par pro btii sug the • QO

OONO()RDIENSJ.S, ApriZ 23~ 1981 Page 7 A passionate . _plea is made · . on behalf of · the editors of Concordiensis, -to the faculty, staff and - administration: Please take an interest in the campus publication and contribute. We welcome yoU.r input. Frat~rnal Feelings By RIM Slllee the sororities are still earvlng their niche, and r~cognizlng that Union is the \Mother of Fraternieles,\ this ()ploJon piece will only deal with the .fraternities and their \sordid\ past. ''Fraternities are rowdy, rude, snobby ·and' they don't like independents!\ Have you ever heard anyone say this, or ·SOmething like it? Based on the relationship that develops between the independents on ca1npus and the fraternity b.ouses~. it is easy to see from whe1ee the stereotyping and bad feelings might arise. All of us :have e:~perienced it. Are you \al>ove\ these feelings? I think not. Read on .. The cultivation of the anti- fraternity feeling begins early in your Union College life. The tension that eld:sts between the brothers of any one particular house and the independents ( poup of students who have opted! to live either on campus, or in off-campus apartments), is created by a series of events tbat begin· with our freshman year. When vario!Ul members of tbe freshman and sophomore classes pledge fraternities, they invariably lose contact with their independent friends. For some reason, people who go to live on that mythical road of Le!lol, are seen in classes and onvarious intramural teams. It is ;tlJ1fortunate that we, the rest of the campus, lose touch with many of bur fraternity-bound bulidies who are satisfied to spend most of their, time (studying, .playing beer pong, and sleeping) in the house. Perhaps better relations would be'fostered. between the campus and the fraterniti~s if both groups did a little mQre visiting. For example,if I visit my friend ' ,: \' . \. '\ -.' ~ .. ' ' ' at the house on Saturday, maybe he cculd stop down to visit me at Davidson on Monday night for some pizza and beer. It . is a novel idea,. but it may work. Another source of tension is the \fraternity party.\ A party is an excellent place for someone to get a bad im- pression of a fraternity. For example, if the party is slow, if the punch is sour, if the band is off•key, or if one brother of the neuse is rude, it is said, \that hcmse never has a good party.\ This opinion may persist for qtlite a while and might in fact perpetuate itself. If it is believed that a particular group ofbrothers. can't throw a decent ~rty, then the attendance at the next party will .be poor. It is .. e::xternemly difficult to have a party with no people. It is a self- fulfilling prophecy. Parties are for everyone, enjoy them. The rude brother cited in the ,previous passage can also spawn inaccurate opinions of a particular hoi.tse. We are all aware that certain fraternities on campus have reputations that have persisted for as long as anyone can remember. How did these start~ Easy, it is usually the loud and rude brother that is remembered, and not the well-behaved one in the other room discussing the sccio-economic implications of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. It is the brother who is a member of the Student Forwn, and seen by all that sets tbe precedent for \That fraternity'' encouraging its brothers to be student leaders, and control various aspects of tbe campus. Stereotypes are very easy to accept because one need not make a judgm~nt on his own once he accepts the blanket judgment of othePSr It is ·a very comfortable feeling, but unfair nonetheless. It is evident, of course; that . Fraternity Parties: Fact of Fiction? the fraternities do a lot of good in tenns of their fund-raising activities. The ability to mobilize a large number of people, in a short period of time, for a worthy cause is one of the amazing things about the Greek system. Anyone who has tried to organize a group of in~ dependents, find that they are just that, independent. The togetherness ancl brotherhood fostered by the fraternity System is to be envied. The point I am trying to make is that it is u.nderstood that the Greek system promotes leadership, responsibility, and the ideas of cooperation; but there are alsosome undesirable by-products. Due to the very nature of the system, it is very easy to divide the campus into two sections, the Greeks and the non-Greeks. It is very easy for the independent to feel left out and resent~nent towards good friends that took to fraternity life. It is also very easy to view the fraternities as a pain in the neck, except when they give a party with free flowing beer. It is too easy to commit all these wrongs. It is much harder, and much more beneficial for everyone on the campus, as students, to try to understand one another and get along better. If we understand how the stereotypes develop, perhaps we can forget them and judge each \Greek\ and each \independent\ on an individual basis. So, if you have a good friend that you haven't seen in a while because one of you chose the brotherly life, and the other the independent mode of existence, call him-her up and ask to meet at the Pub. Bring along some friends, and mingle. It is not painful, just fun. After all, we are not stereotypes, but in- dividuals. , I I lo... I QJ .1. I I g. \ ~- t: \ . en ~ :ll ..J >- .a Ill Cl t: '§: ttl lo.. L-------~~~~~------------------------------------~~~~~0

OONOORDIENSIS 1 April ~3, 1981 Page 7 J& Letters i pf · tiv(;llY · ~nvo.lved in com- municating wtth other students, and have students interests at heart and represent those in· terests in the Council. So,. where do we go from · here? I would propose that students have a little confidence and trust in their represen- tatives. I can agree somethn.es it may seem hard, but whoever said have blind faith. An alcohol policy pr('}posal has been written for the cpllege and will be formally prEsented to the student b()dy for response. As for a brochure, that is still in the undertaking. I believe that before one jumps to conclusions one should be sure of the contents of such a brochure. We all know--what happens when we assumel . Education is the reason we all came to Union College and the brochUl\e is just an educational tool to help · achieve a desired end-responsibility. This letter is not meant to condemn a particular in- dividual for a'\' misin- terpretation. If anythi.r)g, Mr. Davis's tetter has caused a .response to set the record straight. He should be com- mended for his interest and concern in student affairs. The Student Affairs Council meetings are open to the public and all are invited to attend Wednesday at 4:15 in Con~ ference A. Concorditnsis is not the only medium of exchange; it is just one means! The Brian Marks 1 82 SAC Representative Faculty Sought I Orientation 'S1 a ~''best.'' All are encouraged t<> attend as many orientation functions as possible. For tfiQse interested in helping as a Faculty Orien- tation Advis()r, tbere are 38 positions available. If you have any quesUons and-or you would ·like to assist us in O~entation '81t please respond to the Orientati<>n Committee, Box 2524, or to the Student Affairs Office, c-o Michael Andolina, Assistant Dean of Students. Thank you for all your con~ tinued enthusiasm and support in the orientatitln effort! Gratefully. The Orientaticn Committee of . 1981 Tracy Hoffman· Bob Mozayeni Faculty Sub:O>mmittee Praise (At Last) J.R.G. A passionate plea is made on behalf of the edi1ors of Concordiensis, to the faculty~ staff and administration: Ac:htis~rs' .. orienliattun will be 3-4 \'.\ .,;Ac'·' 1 meeting$) to': · Please take an interest in the - present ·an acadeMe per .. spective of life at Uni(m. . .... gtve f~trttlty mem:berst attitudes and perspectives on their jo.bs as educators. . . · · ·· · a ·sense nf students · . pncess of camp lis publication and contribute. We welcome your input. Fraternal Feelings By RIM Since tbe sororities are still carving tbdr niche, and recognizing that Union is the \Mother of Fraternleles,\ this opinion piece will only deal with the fraternities and their \sordid\ past. \Fraternities are rowdy, rude, snebby and they don't like independents!\ Have you ever heard anyone say this, or something like it? Based on the relationship that develops between the independents on campus and the fraternity houses, it is easy to see from where the stereotyping and bad feelings might arise. All of us have experienced it. Are you \above\ these feelings? I think not. Read on. The cultivation of the anti- fraternity feeling begins early in your Union College life. The tensioH that exists between the brothers of any one particular house and the independents (group of students whe have opted to live either on campus, or in offooCampus apartments), is created by a series of events that begin with our freshman year. When various members of the freshman and sophomore classes pledge fraternities, they invariably lose contact with their independent friends. For some reason, people who go to live on that mythical road of Lenox, are seen in classes and on various intramural teams. It is unfortunate that we, the rest of the campus, lose touch with many of our fraternity-bound buddies who are satisfied to spend most of their time (studying, playing beer pong, and sleeping) in the house. Perhaps better relations would be fostered between the campus and the fraternities if both groups did a little more visiting. For example, if I visit my friend at the house on Saturday, may be he could stop down to visit me at Davidson on Monday night for some pizza and beer. It is a novel idea, but it may work. Another source of tension is the ''fraternity party.\ A party is an excellent place for someone to get a bad im- pression of a fraternity. For example, if the party is slow, if the ptu1ch is sour, if the band is off-key, or if one brother of the house is rude, it is said, \that house never has a good party.\ This opinion may persist for quite a while and might in fact perpetuate itself. If it is believed that a particular group of brothers can't throw a decent party, then the attendance at the nex:t party will be poor. It is externemly difficult to have a party with no people. It is a self~ fulfilling prophecy. Parties are for everyone, enjoy them. The rude brother cited in the previous passage can also spawn inaccurate opinions of a particular house. We are aU aware that certain fraternities on campus have reputations that have persisted for as long as anyone can remember. How did these start? Easy, it is usually the loud and rude brother that is remembered, and not the well-behaved one in the other room discussing the socio-economic implications of the Seviet invasion of Afghanistan. It is the brother who is a member of the Student Forum, and seen by all that sets the precedent for ''That fraternity\ encouraging its brothers to be student leaders, and control various aspects of the campus. Stereotypes are very easy to accept because one need not make a judgm~nt on his own once he accepts the l>lanket judgment of others. It is a very comfortable feeling, but unfair nonetheless. It is evident, of col.li'se; that · Fraternity Parties: Fact of Fiction? the fraternities do a lot of good in terms of their fund-raising activities. The ability to mobilize a large number of people, in a short period of time, for a worthy cause is one of the amazing things about the Greek system. Anyone who has tried to organize a group of in- dependents, find that they are just that, independent. The togetherness and brotherhood fostered by the fraternity system is to be envied. The point I am trying to make is t:hat it is understood that the Greek system promotes leadership, respensibUity, and the ideas of cooperation; but there are also some undesirable by-products. Due to the very nature of the system, it is very easy to divide the campus into two sections, the Greeks and the non-Greeks. It is very easy for the independent to .feel left out and resentment towards good friends that took to fraternity life. It is also very easy to view the fraternities as a pain in the neck, except when they give a party with free flowing beer. It is too easy to commit all these wrongs. It is much harder, and much more beneficial for everyone on the campus, as students, to try to understand one another and get along better. If we understand how the stereotypes develop, perhaps we can ferget them and judge each \Greek\ and each \independent\ on an individual basis. So, if you have a good friend that you haven't seen in a while because one of you chose the brotherly life, and the other the independent mode of existence, call him-her up and ask to meet at the Pub. Bring along some friends, and mingle. It is not painful, just fun. After all, we are not stereotypes, but in- dividuals. \' Ol c: L---------~~-·~~\_·· .. _~~··~·~-·~~,~--------------------------------------~~:~···~~----._-J~

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS~ April !3~ 1981 ~s & Culture Noah's Nott Photo Corner ,_ By NAOMI BLANK Mountebanks, the oldest theater group in the United States has been revived and is preparing for its .first production: ''Noah Was a Righteous Man (and' a Damn Good Carpenter Too!) or Noah's Nott' 1 • Written by Seth Mendelowitz {who plays the voice of God) and director Lenny Kirsch, the play, Mountebank's first production in two years, will be presented during Parent's Weekend .. The purpose of the production is ''to showcase the great depth and diversity of the talent at Union College,'' explained Kirsch. Blank, Dave Blakelock, Dennis Deeb (as Noah), Bobbi Cohen, Glenn Krutoff, Ruth Ewing, PaUl McG.avin, Greg Meyer, Nick Paveichuk, Brian Quint, Jeanine Vivona, and Mike Zelvin. Veterans. to the stage are: Elizabeth Baker, Steve Auer- bach, Mary Bonk-Vasko, Jean Carney, Chris Gaynor, Jodi Cohen, Andy Levine, Melissa Gold, Robin Molella, Dani Raphael, Bambi Schlauch, and Stephanie Zigman. \Noah's Nott'' will be per- .farmed May l, 2, and 3 at 8 p.m. and 3 p.m. on Sunday, May 3, as well. Tickets are priced at $2 for students, faculty, and staff, and $3 for parents arid non-students. Tickets are on sale now at the Nott Memorial Box Office. Marc in M. B.'s office. by James Archibald Highlight$ of the show include a solo by 'Mary Bonk-Vasko entitled, \Amsterdam\ and Jackson Browne's \Before the Deluge\ sung by Chris Gaynor. \Rockin' Robin\ will be per- formed. by Mike Zelvin, and Dani Raphael and Jeanine And God _Said 'let There Be lips' Vivona will join forces in the By DEMETRA PONTISAKOS duet \Bossom Buddies.\ Two original songs were written by And, yea there were lips. And Eric Ruben and will be sung by the lips joyously proclaimed the Dennis Deeb and Melissa Gold. glory of God. (And Flash Bobbi Cohen also wrote a song Gordon was there in silver which she will sing with Dave Wlderwear.) And God said, Blakelock. The production \Let there be men,\ and verily numbers will be ~'Together I say to you, there were men. Wherever We Go,\ \Movin' And one of the men was Frank Right Along,\ and \Side by Side N. Furter. And Frank N. Furter by Side.\ said, \Let there be He-men\ A notable featlU'e of the and then Richard O'Brien said, production is that many faces \Hey why don't we make a are new to the Nott Memorial movie out of all this!\_ And, stage. The animals and humans behold, t~ere was \~~ Rocky aboard the ark making their Horr~r. PlCt~e Show, . one of debut are: Ken Altman, Naomi the biggest - if not the biggest - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I don't think you know that just as I was shining my,rusty sword and polishing my tarnished, impenetrable armour and climbing high up onto .my noble· mare; just as I was, like a martyr, preparing myself for an exalting narcissistic journey into the dese-rt, to battle against the harsh mid-day sun and its worshippers: just as I was-- like the fool I am-- attacking inhumanity in a frightfully inhuman manner, you come along-- Why, y~ur sword gleams quite brightly, my friend! Engarde! Engarde, I say! Touche. (Have I met my match?) Touche. (You have touched me.) ToucHe, Damn it, touche. It seems in no time, I look up and, in awe, realize that the mid-day sun has mellowed has settled down, embracing the horizon, all colors: purples and reds and yellows, humbly _heeding to the rights of the moon and of the stars: and of the worshippers. You take my hand: I dismount I disarm. I undress. And I don't think you can tell that I am frightened: Just when I had a grip on my emotions You comealongandremind me that I'm human. And my vulnerability comes shihing through. --And I walk ever so Warily through the cool, mysterious desert sand, not sure of what I may step on or if it will hurt me or bleed me or scar me another scar. It is dark and I am suddenly painfully aware of the fact that I can't even tell whe.ther or not you still have your sword with you, and that we are Walking far from where I left my sword, my armour, my horse Apprehensive, I fear they may be lost or stolen or damaged I fear i may never see them again Yet, holding your hand, I continue to walk away from them. Barefoot, in the cool, unpredictable patterns of sand I continue on this journey • • . 8 De 1 M P 1 . k y me ra • on esa os ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ implies, the doctor represents the mad scientist who, while being an absolute genius, with the ability to re-create human life, has all the aura of the spoiled heroine of the 1940s - selfishandpouty,but very, very sexy ... However, the most exciting and attractive aspect. of this punk film which will be shown cult films in America (tight_ UP there with \Harold and Maude'' and \The King of Hearts). People just keep going back- to see the show over and over again - twenty, thirty, forty, fifty, sixty, .seventy - times l And who could resist? Who could resist Tim Curry (currently playing the title role in the Broadway production of Amadeus, and getting rave· reviews) in fishnet stockings and five-inch patent leather pumps (with sequins!) as th~ \versatile\ bisexual tran- svestite, Dr. Frank N. FurteF? Not I. Nay, not I. As his name · on campus this Friday and Saturday, is the intense level of audience participation. The audience is an integral part of Rocky Horror: You sit there and y,ou are part of the experience -_ you ask questions When the sun goes down, Domino's ~izza gets busy· preparing the most convenient fast food you can get. Just pick up your phone, dial tbe number, and a Domino's pizza is only 30 minutes away. Thafs all it taRes, and we never charge for delivery. Give us a call. Domino's Pizza will make your Late Night. .. Special. Our drivers carry less than $10.00. Limited delivery area. •1980 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 1)o . Tasty, Quick and Hot Pizza which the actors respond to, and vice versa, and you sing the songs and dance the \Time Warp.\ And you even get to throw things l · . If you're a \virgin\(if you've never seen the show before), you must go l Bring rice for the wedding, :water pistols for the rain storm, newspapers for protection from the rainstorm, toast (to propose a toast), and toilet paper. If you're a veteran, don't for:get to introduce your virgin friends, and don't forget the cards and the bell. (I always do! ) Elbow sex:! , - $.50 off any size pizza. One coupon per pizza , Offer expires April 28 Fast, Free Delivery Address: 127 Nolt .......... - /. Phone: 372·4441 ,,, . .,, .•. .,.:.o:•=~ I I Il Pi< Mi' I ' Pi< Mi ( Ch ~ Fh 1 Ro

Wllat'~ Happ,eQii?g Friday, April 24 Delta Chi \Bullroast.\ DU's 50's Party. ' -~ Movie: The Rocky Horror Picture Show-88016, 10 p.m. & Midnite. Saturday, AprU 25 BLAS Disco Party, Movie: The Rocky Horror Picture Show....SS016, 10 p.m. & Midnite Sunday, Aprn 26 Glee Club Concert, Memorial Chapel. Monday, AprU27 Women's Lacrosse, Library Field, 3 p.m. Phone·A·Thon, Banqu,et Room. Tuesday, Aprl128 ZBT·UMOC Party. Zeta OONOORDIENSI8, April ~3:. 1981 • Ices OQ T~e Greek ~rOIJt Derby Day Delta Chi (19); and Second Floor South (15). We would also Attention Union women: The like to thank those who had to be 13th AnnWil Sigma Chi Clam.- turned away because of lack -of bake is fast approaching and in · time. The next bloodmobile at association with it is the 4th ' Union will attempt to adjust to annual Derby Day Competition. collect even more than the · ' · The competition provides recent 242 units of the \gift of groups with a chance Jo do life.\ Once again, thanks to all • something charitable for the who participated. -- underprivileged. Derby Day teams should Volleyball·a=thon consist of 10 girls with 15 the· maximum . .Scoring of the We are extending an in· competition is based on Raffle · vitation to your organization to Sales, Derby Chase, SIG· . play volleyball and raise money natures and the events held. at for charity in the Phi Delta the Clambake. Money raised by Theta-Theta Delta Chi your raffle sales will be donated . Volleyball..,a..,thon in association to a local charity under the with Red Cross Y o.uth and · team's name. Easter Seals. This fun and Hurry! Get a team together grueling event will begin at 2 · or call us and we can try to work p.m., April24, and will continue something out. The deadline is until 2 p.m. on the following April 30th, Contact Greg day, April 25. -Teams from Phi Duczynski or Rob Quish at 382m Delta Theta, Theta Delta Chi, 9582. Union College and the local Tri-Delta Party Tri-Delta would like to invite the entire campus to a party on Thursday, April 23 at the Alumni Gym. The party will start at 9:00 and there will be beer and dancing. Thanks from TDChi Theta Delia Chi and the N. Eastern Region of the Red Cross wish to thank all those who donated blood to the March 4 Bloodmobile. The keg winners this term were: First Floor Davidson South (19); Theta conununity will be competing against each other. Great priZes will be awarded to the top three money raisers, and Appreciation Plaques will be · given to the two teams who raise the most money. For more information, contact Craig Hayden, 346-2839 or John Casale, 370-0459. ZBT·UMOC The. Brothers and Pledges of Zeta Beta Tau present their second annual competition for the Ugliest Man on Campus. Ten cents will cast one vote for your candidate. All proceeds will be donated to the UNITED WAY .of Schenectady. Leaders will be posted daily, as com· petition begins on Monday, April20. Prize packages include a 12\ television, -El. multi-band portable radio, a dinner for two at tbe Turf Inn, $75 in gift certificates -from AJC Sporting Goods, a keg of beer, and much more. Winners Will be an· nounced. at the ZBT.;UMOC Band Party on Tuesday, April 28. Delta Gamma·Olym.plcs Many .students look forward to their Spring term at Union because it is filled with en· tertaining activities. One particular activity is the Delta Gamma Olympics. On May 9, 1981, the third annual Delta Gamma Olympics will be held. Y,es, that's right, it's time to get ready for the Olympics again. This year the teams must consist of5 girls and 5 guys. To enter the Olympics each team must submit (to Karen Sch· midt,DG, room 204, by Apri125, 1981) 1) a $20 entry fee, 2) team roster and 3) a team name. The name must be created, i.e., it cannot be a dorm or fraternity name. 'lhe Olympics will be on a first-come, first-enter basis. The first ten teams to enter by April25, 1981 will be chosen. So, think about forming a team, talk to your fl\iends and get psyched for another fun activity that will benefit our national projEct, \Sight Conservation and Aid to the Blind.\ Beta Student Phone-A·Thon number of used compound and dissection microscopes which are no longer suitable for laboratory or professional use. They are all in operating con· dition and may be used by mature children or adults, for hobbies or non-critical slide viewing. Tau ANNOUNCES ITS 2nd ANNUAL UMOC PARTY Featuring the ·E·merald Band Playing the best of Bob Seger, Bruce Springsteen, The Who, The Cars, Joe Jackson and many more The Annual Student Phone-A· Thon will be held Monday thru Thursday, May 4-7. It will, as usual, be conducted in the Banquet Room in the basement of Carnegie Hall. Refreshments will be available. There are team openings still available. For more information, contact . Paul Rieschick in the third floor of Lamont House, or at 37().6174. Camp Union Camp Union is coming real soon. (Yeah! ) The Social Committee is looking for people to help with food. If you're in· terested, please contact Cindy (6840), Betty (6554) or Jill (6785). . They are offered \as is\ on a first-come, first-~erve basis. Prices are: Compound-$30.00 Dissection-$40.00 The sale will be held in the Science and Engineering Bldg., . Rm. S301 of the Biology Department on Tuesday, April 28, 12:30-2:00. For information, call G. Smith or M. Frohlich. Fox-Davidson 50-50 Raffle llave you bought your tickets Sale of Used Microscopes · for the Fox-Davidson 50g50 Raffle yet? The winner will The Biology Department collect half of the total money offers for .sale to members of · raised so the more people who the College Community a · enter, the better the prize. Page 9 Geqeral Nottlces Small Craft Instructor wanted for day camp in Albany area. Rowing and canoeing- Red Cross Instructor Cer· tification helpful. Starts the 4th week of June and ends the 2nd week of August. Good pay, breakfast, lunch and snack. Call Jim Carroll x6607 for in· formation. Come to a night of Brazilian Music by Jacqueline Boone Wienstein on Thursday, Apri12a at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss U:lunge. The night of music will include an introduction to the musical instruments used in different regions of Brazil and a slide presentation on Brazil. Dr. F.S.L. Lyons, Provost of Trinity College, Dublin, will Continued on page 10 There are also many other prizes donated by local businesses from dinners to liquor t() gift certificates. The proceeds will be used to finance the Fox-Davidson All-Campus Barbeque-Band Party scheduled for May 15. If enough money is not raised, the part;y will be cancelled. Chances are 3 for $1.00 and are on sale from all Fox-Davidson Dorm Council members and R.A.'s. Attention Seniors The Commencement Com mittee is searching for anyone interested in delivering the Senior Class speech at Com~ mencement. The speeches · should not exceed 5-7 pages in length, and should contain onl;y your ID number. All those in· terested may submit a double- spaced typed copy of their speech to Mike Andolina in the· · Student Mfairs Office before April ao, 1981. Thursday, April 23rd BEERand PUNCH Tuesday, April 28th 9:00-2:00 a.m. ·First Act: 4th Floor West Second Act: Prize winners will be announced · Tickets are $1 in advance and $2 at the door The Martin Brothers MC: Renee' Haber · Don't Miss Tltis Event.ful Eveningl SEE YOU THERE! Shows at 9 and II tickets on sale in Carnegie at 8:00

.. ~ \~. Page 10 OONOORDlENSIS, April ~3, 1981 General Nottices ... give a lecture, \The Two Cultures in Ireland,\ on Tuesday evening, April 28 at 8 p.m. in the Hale H0use Lower Lounge on the Union College Campus. The program will be sponsored by the Minerva Committee and the English and History Departments of the College. The talk will deal with the nature of the divisions in Ireland that are causing unrest in that cotmtry today. The talk is open to the public at no charge. Underground Houses will be the subject of a seminar at the Center for Environmental Options, 196 Morton Ave., Albany, on Saturday, April 25th. The seminar is one of a series of twenty-five scheduled to be heJd during the months of April, May and June at the Center. The Ad-irondack Research Center needs two volunteers available Monday afternoons from 1 :30 to 4: 20 to assist with sorting, organizing, and cataloging rare and valuable papers and records. If in- terested, please call Kathy Fogarty 3464)136 (after noon), or speak with Ruth Anne Evans, Asst. Director of Schaefer Ubrary. The following career workshops will be offered this week: Decision Making Skills (Apr. 27, 6:30 p.m.), Resume Writing (Apr. 28,6:30 p.m.) and \Life After Union\ (Apr. 29, 4 p.m.). Please sign up for these and all other career workshops in advance at the Career Center. Coming to a career workshop this term? Please sign up in advance at the Career Center on South Lane. \Why Liberal Arts?\ is the subject of a Parents Weekend Film Committee Presents: a different set of ja'Ws. FILMS INCORPORATED •• Ices Career Seminar on the value of liberal arts education in today's world. Introduction by Dr. Willard Roth, panelists are Dr. Byron Nichols, Dr. Harry Marten, Dr. Rudy Nydegger, and Union Alumni. It will be on 'Saturday, May~. from 1~2 pm at Stage Two, Carnegie and all are welcome! Co-spansored by the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs and the Career Center. There is sumnier housing available at Sigma Phi. Anyone interested in a room .should call 382-9225 and ask for Harry or Dave. Don't Miss This! Psi Chi invites you to come and ex- perience \Titticut Follies\ on April 27 at 8 p.m. in SS016. This is a highly controversial film which reveals the actual shocking and obscene treat- ment of patients in a Mas·sachusetts Mental Institution for the criminally insane. Don't miss this stunning documentary of human abuse. Admission only 50c. Applications will be accepted until May 1 for Union Terms Abroad Winter Terms 1982. The terms will take place in Athens, Greece (prerequisite, Classics 24) a kibbut:~; in Israel, (prerequisite, Hebrew 10 _or equivalent) and in Seville, Spain (prerequisite, Spanish 133 or equivalent). For any ad- Academic Affairs Council . . ·• Continued from -.page 2 role of admissions and recruitment in the academic atmosphere and program. The idea of the curricular review is to discover what the college actually is as we go into the mid-1980s, what our problems and strengths are. illtimately, decisions·· of what we want to be and therefore what must be done to achieve this with quality have to be made. IHs a process which is of great concern to us all._ The Delta Gamma Olympics are corning sooh--May 9, 1981, from 11-l pm on Library Field. Form a team for the DG Olympics .. DEADLINE FOR ENTRY: April 25, 1981 for entry fee, team name (please no fraternity or dorm hame) a·nd team roster. Limit 10 teams. TEAMREQUIREMENTS: 5guys &5girls. Team song {to play when your team wins event).. Team banner. BtNE.F tTS: The proceeds from the Olympics Will go toward Delta Gamma;s National Foundation Project; Sight Conservatioh and Aid to the Blind. · ditional infonnation and for applications, please come ttt the Terms Abroad office in Humanities 211. Union College sophomores With a B or better grade point average are encouraged to apply. for selection as the 'Union College ''St. Andrew's Exchange Student\ for the 1981- 82 academic year. The selected student will spend his-her junior year abroad at the University of St. Andrew's, Scotland's oldest university. . Spring Fling Schedule of Outrageous Events (All of which wiH ~ benefit Muscular Dystrophy) Saturday, April26 6 ptn--Pinball Marathon ' begins. All quarters to M.D. 50- so Draft Beer Deal 12:00 mid.--World Cup of ·RathskeJ:Iar. Games for . Trophies and Prizes. Sunday, April27 3 am-9 am--WRUC Dance-A- Thon 4 am--Special Breakfast 10 am--Brunch star.ts. Sf)ecial Breakfast continues. 12 am--Brunch ends--regular ' menu. 1 pm--50-50 Draft Beer Deal · all over again. 1-5 pm LIVE ENTERTAINMENT The Martin Brothers Bluegrass Band Kevin Gavif.t Traditional Folk Other Guest Artists · ·Spring Fling is presented by the . Rathskel.lar and Budweiser, Inc.· to benefit Mu>cular Dystrophy. Your Support Is Needed! All .information for the Nottices section must be ·submitted before 7 p .. m. the Tuesday before publicatio:n - Hug Uni Lynn~ two-s1 Satur until· HOUBI Union of 57-: berth: State colleg Durir Barta first 1 Tourr Bar the 1! team GamE clinic Volle~ coach The clinic The team last Skidn Siena to th~ easily Men's April The the 1 troubl show~ berg~ first bagel ''Roc handi Moor~ 0, 7-5. a bit came victm ''b a.J tiebrE exhit playe positi Brod! both~ Dave pain£1 Mian lost a Yet ' out a partn two t and J Katz. Sie next in a 1 In in agalr alon~

Page 10 OONCORDIENSIS, April ~3, 1981 General N~ottices ••• give a lecture, \The Two Cultures in Ireland,\ on Tuesday evening, April 28 at 8 p.m. in the Hale House Lower Lounge on the Union College Campus. The program will be sponsored by the Minerva Conunittee and the English and History Departments of the College. The talk will deal with the nature of the divisions in Ireland that are causing unrest in that country today. The talk is open to the public at no char.ge. Underground Houses will be the subject of a seminar at the Center for Environmental Options, 196 Morton Ave., Albany, on Saturday, April 25th. The seminar is one of a series of twenty-five scheduled to be held dlll'ing the months of AprH, May and June at the Center. The Adirondack Research Center needs two volunteers available Monday afternoons from 1:30 to 4:20 to assist with sorting, orgamzmg, and cataloging rare and valuable papers and records. If in- terested, please call Kathy Fogarty 346-0136 (after noon), or speak with Ruth Anne Evans, Asst. Director of Schaefer Library. The following career workshops will be offered this week: Decision Making Skills (Apr. 27, 6:30 p.m.), Resume Writing (Apr. 28, 6:30p.m.) and \Life After Union\ (Apr. 29, 4 p.m.). Please sign up for these and all other career workshops in advance at the Career Center. Coming to a career workshop this term? Please sign up in advance at the Career Center on South Lane. \Why Liberal Arts?\ is the subject of a Parents Weekend • Ices Career Seminar on the value of liberal arts education in today's world. Introduction by Dr. Willard Roth, panelists are Dr. Byron Nichols, Dr. Harry Marten, Dr. Rudy Nydegger, and Union Alumni. It will be on Saturday, May 2, from 1·2 pm at Stage Two, Carnegie and all are welcome! Co-sponsored by the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs and the Career Center. There is summer housing available at Sigma Phi. Anyone interested in a room should call 382-9225 and ask for Harry or Dave. Don. 't Miss This! Psi Chi invites you to come and ex:- perience ''Titticut Follies\ on April 27 at 8 p.m. in SS016. This is a highly controversial film which reveals the actual shocking and obscene treat- me:nt of patients in a Massachusetts Mental Institution for the criminally insane. Don't miss this stunning docl:l!llentary of hwnan abuse. Admission only 50c. Applications wUI be accepted until May 1 for Union Terms Abroad Winter Terms 1982. The terms will take place in Athens, Greece (prerequisite, Classics 24) a kibbutz in Israel, (prerequisite, Hebrew 10 or equivalent) and in Seville, Spain (prerequisite, Spanish 133 or equivalent). For any ad- Academic Affairs Council • • • Continued from page 2 roie of admissions and recruitment in the academic atmosphere and program. The idea of the curricular review is to discover what the college actually is as we go into the mid-1980s, what our problems and strengths are. Ultimately, decisions· of what we want to be and therefore what must be done to achieve this with quality have to be made. It is a process which is of great concern to us all. er ·s· .~o'·Q·t: ~:,a:::.····.~ . . . ' ~.· ~. 9 ' \ . . # -. ' Beth Meyer for UMOC! ! Rm. 110: \Peter where are the cookies?\·· ~'Mary 11 . T.M~-Htl;pe YO·U }l-aven't forgotten> I haven't...,.JS!B 316 & 311: ltD. trade you a Spring term over\l\10king G/E. for 2 months in Deutschland ANYTIME!! Gmnpah Fra.uelein Sue: Du :snntest heir sein! Johann Kappa Sig-You want maybe I bring some beer baxk? The Bowse Andre, Chris, Ira, lreg, Pete- Forthcoming Congrats Guys! JHDB .. 3's Company~ 3-C's·the 4th C may not come back-Fitz Film Committee Presents: a different set of ja\VVs. FILMS INCORPORATED Greg: Ben., from the Swtibian 4lt~N~ .·· ···. · .· ·· ; .· ::c ·· . -~y ·~it 1 $.· ·:·~··· .... ·:.·. NeVui,..t~··~#~~~··ia~···~tiur····· Attdf't!~t':~;~~~t;·r~;:.:i\. ·~ ' -:.- '· . -': ~ ... carol-You'd make a g(lod German, theytre Short'! Elissa .. -The chocolate is great! oo..;.Hell~:r fro:ttt ·Deutschland ~I ~o~~ you. })~~ght .P~n~y\ of garbage bags wtth you , • , I tbirik ttm golng,t>O throwwup. ·JO The Delta Gamma Olympics are coming soon--May 9, 1981, from 11-1 pm on Library Field. Form a team for the DG Olympics. DEADLINE FOR ENTRY: April 25, 1981 for entry fee, team name (please no fraternity or dorm name) and team roster. Limit 10 teams. TEAM:REQUI REMENTS: 5 guys & 5 girls. Team song (to play when your team wins event). Team banner. BENEFITS: The proceeds from the Olympics will go toward Delta Gamma's National Foundation Project; Sight Conservation and Aid to the Blind. ditional information and for applications, please come to the Terms Abroad office in Humanities 211. Union College sophomores with a B or better grade point average are encouraged to apply for selection as the Union College ''St. Andrew's Exchange Student\ for the 1981- 82 academic year. The selected student will spend his-her junior year abroad at the University of St. Andrew's, Scotland's oldest university. Spring Fling. Schedule of Outrageous Events (All of which will benefit Museu Ia r Dystrophy) Saturday, April 26 6 pm-·Pinball Marathon begins. All q11arters to M.D. 50- 50 Draft Beer Deal 12:00 mid.--World Cup of Rathskellar. Games for Trophies and Prizes. Sunday, April27 3 am-9 am--WRUC Dance-A- Thon 4 am--Special Breakfast 10 am--Brunch starts. Special Breakfast continues. 12 am--Brunch ends--regular · menu. 1 pm--50-50 Draft Beer Deal all over again. 1-5 pm LIVE ENTERTAINMENT The Martin Brothers Bluegrass Band Kevin Gavitt Traditional Folk Other Guest Artists Spring Fling is presented by the Rathskellar and Budweiser, Inc. to benefit Muscular Dystrophy. Your Support Is Needed! All information for the Nottices section must be submitted before 7 p.m. the ' Tuesday before pub I ication - Hug· Uni Lynm two·S4 Satur until· HousE Union of 57-: berth: State colleg Durir Barta first I To urn Bar the 1! team Game clinic: Volle~ coach The clinic R~ The team last Skidrr Siena to th• easily Men's April The the 1 troubl show~ berg:: first bagel ''Roc handi Moon 0, 7-5. a bit came victor ''ba1 tiebre ex:hit playe positi Brod~ both c Dave painf1 Miarr: lost a Yet'' out a partn two l and 1 Katz. Sie: next in a 1 In in agair alon~

OONOORDIENSJS~ April B:J, 1981 Page 11 Softba'lil in Playoff Qu~st Hugick\wlth the ~unt. VB Clinic Union head volleyball coach, Lynne Barta, will conduct a tw()-session . coaches' clinic on Saturday, June 27 at 8:30 a.m. until 4 p.m. at Memorial Field House. Barta, who has been at Union since 1977, owns a record o£57-35 and has earned playoff berths twice in the New York Stat.e Associ:ation .-of Inter- collegiate Athletics for Women. During the 1980 season, Barta's Dutchwomen captured first place in the New England Tournament. Barta has also been coach of the 1978 and '79 Open Division team for th Empire State Games as well as being head clinician for the United States Volleyball Association Level II coaches' clinic. The first session of this year's clipic will begin at 8:30 a.m. ' with registration. From 9:15 a.m. until 11 :30 a.m. \fun- damentals of volleyball\ will cover skills such as setting, passing, spiking, dunking, blocking, serving, digging, sprawls, and roll. From 11:30 a.m. until12:00 p.m. Barta wUl cover the organization of practices. The second session will begin at 12:30 p.m. with registration. At 1 p.m., Coach Barta will discuss offenses with a discussion · of defenses scheduled for 1:45 p.in. Tran- sitions,. breaks, served reception formations, volleyball films. and analysis and a question-and-answer period will conclude the clinic. Fee for the clinic is $25: per session or $40 for both sessions. I The Union College women':s softball team will contin11.e its quest for a bid in the New Ycnk State playoffs when it bosts Skidmore on Friday, April 24'. Five games into the 1981 seaon 1 coach J.ane Hop'kins' Dut· chwomen have proven t:hern~ selves competitive and . ba'Ve completely turned tl:lings around compared to tile beginning of 1980. A year ago at this tfine, Hopkins' squad had lost its opening four games and a11y hope of a playoff opportWtity:. This time around, Union is 2-3 with six games remainin~ <>n the schedule. \We have to win at least five of our remaining games in1· Martha Morrison, bead field hockey coach at Union Colle~e, will offer a two-day clinic f<>r coaches in field hockey ()n Friday, June 5th and Saturday,· June 6th. The program is designed to upgrade skills and pla_yer's performances in the areas ()f transitional, midfield and comer play as well as to compare traditional and system styles of play. Coach Morrison camE to Union College in 1978 as tlle Racquetmen Hit Hot Hand / By H.D. HOFFMAN The Union College tennis team upped their record to 3-2 last week, romping over Skidmore on April 15th and Siena on April 16th. In addition to these wins, the Dutchmen easily handled the Schenectady Men's Club in a scrimmage on April 12th, 5-l. The \Skiddies\ didn't give the Union men very much trouble, which the 8-1 final score shows. Captain Barry Rosen- berg annihilated his opponent at first singles, with a double bagel, 6-0, 6-0 score. Tom 0 ''Rocky'' Lestina also won v handily' 1 6-1, 6-2, as did Dwight ~ Moore, 6-2, 6-0 and Dave Katz, 6- • 0, 7-5. Bob Stratton had to work 0 a bit harder at 6th singles, but • came away with a three set <i. victory, winning the last set in a k ''barn-burning\ 9-point o .... 0 tiebreaker. There were also two .c exhibition singles matches a.. played at the 7th and 8th positions, with Howie \Sky\· Brodsky and Hank Hoffman both easily winning in two. sets. Dave Patalita, still fighting a painful sunburn received in Miami, Florida over vacation, lost a tight match, 4-6, '6-4, 3-6. Yet \Pads\ was able to tough out a win at third doubles with partner Moore,. as did the other two Union teams of Rosenberg and Antiles, and Eskenazi and Katz. Siena was the Dutchmen's next victim, being manhandled in a heavy wind last Thursday. In individual play, Rosenberg again triumphed hands down, along with freshmen Antiles Barry Rosenberg shows his form and Katz, and sophomore Patalita. Moore and Lestina, at the number two and · three positions, respectively, brought their matches into three sets, but both maintained control the whole way and eventually won. The same three doubles teams that destroyed Skidmore ~ repeated their perfonnances ~ against Siena, which made the .... final score of the match 9-0. ~ The Racquetmen have some ~ tough teams still to come in ~ their schedule, including 0 powerftil Colgate, and Hamilton 15 and Middlebury. However, the f. team is hot now, and with a few breaks, anything could happen. order to qualify for the tour- nament and I truly believe that we can do that,'' said Hopkins, who is in: her second year at the helm. Union, which came on to win five ofitslast seven games for a 5-6 record ,in 1980, opened this season with a heartbreaking 8-7 nine~inning loss to Russell Sage. The setback did not dampen the players' spirits however, as they c81lle back to record a 16-10 win over RPI. The Dutchwornen then dropped a 13-8 decision to St. Rose before knocking off Albany State, 10-4. Siena recorded an 8-2 win and Union's Easter Sat-urday game at Skidmore was to be rescheduled. head women's fiel4 hockey and lacrosse coach. While at Union, she has posted a 41-14-3 record in field hockey and has been invited t() the New York State Tournament twice. She bas also coached teams that have won both the silver and bronze medals in field hockey at the Empire State Games as well as being the Northeast Squad Coach at the Nationals in 1980. Assisting coach Morrison with the clinic will be Charlyn Robert, a three-year player on the Northeast Squad and a participant at the Nationals duringthose years. Robert, who is currently the field hockey coach at Cambridge Central School, was a member of the Olympic Development Program for two years and was also involved with the Empire State Games. The clinic will begin on Friday, June 5th at 6:30 p.m. with an hour-long registration. Women's, lacrosse standout Holly Howard has been saluted as the Miller Athlete .of the Week; this is the second time· she has been awarded this prestigious honor. Holly has scored eight goals and several assists during the past week. The scoring barrage started with a five goal per- fonnance during a 13-1 victory over, Russel Sage on Thursday. Holly contii1Ued her hot scoring with four goals in Saturday's 8-6 lo~s to Hartwick. This scoring rampage has boosted Holly to the teams leading scorer with eighteen goals. Being the leading , scorer is not;hiru:! new for Holly. Last year First basemen Carol Wrenn, a junior, leads the women With a .600 batting average and seven runs batted in. Kelly Liese and catcher Lynn LeBlanc are both well over .300 and have com- bined for 10 hits and eight runs. Pitching remains thin for Union as sophomore Dina Pliotis has carried all of the load. In four games, Pliotis has hurled 29.1 out of a possible 32 innings. She has a 2-2 record and a 3.62 ERA. Thus far fielding lapses have proven to be Union's main downfall. The team has com- mitted 25 errors while giving up 24 unearned runs. Of the 34 runs allowed by Pliotis, only 15 have been earned. From 7 until 8:15 p.m. in-, struction will be directed toward \ball control\ and \stickwork'' with skills in \attack\ scheduled from 8:30 until 9:45. On Saturday, registration will take. place from 8:30a.m. until9 a.m. with \defense\ covered from 9 a.m. until10:15 a.m. and \systems\ the topic from 10:30 a.m. until noon. From noon until1:15 p.m. the \extras\, such as selection of players for positions, con- ditioning, college selection and playing opportunities will be covered: The fee for the clinic will be $10 per session or $45 advanced r~gistration for the entire program. A fee of $55 will be charged for at the door re.gistration for the entire program. For further information, contact Coach Morrison at Union's Alumni Gym, 370-6284. Athlete of the Week Holly led Women's Hacrosse in both goals 3!1d assists. Her scoring was m- strumental in leading the team to its first winning season since the programs inception in 1975. Holly plays the third home position which affords her many opportunities to score, which she has taken advantage of often. Holly is a sophomore from Hartford Connecticut. She is an Economics major who is in- volved in many Block U ac- tivities. Holly is also an out- standing field hockey player who was awarded tbe Most Valuable Player Award last year. Holly attended Kingswood Oxford in West Hartford, Conn., where she played four years at both Varsity Lacrosse and Varsity Field hockey. In high school, Holly was ·named the Outstanding Female Athlete and M.V.P. in Field Hockey. Good luck to Holly fortpe rest of the season. WOMEN'S SPORTS WRITERS NEE·DED t,

'E' 0 +- 0 [ OONOORDIENSIS, April SS} 1981 Page 11 ·;,:. , :~-: '.: :~;.i.r -it\-l4 .. .\:.i>~¥:~t~~~-:~--~~ k1f --~,,.-\~ ,,, }J. '\-· ~.;. \';:\\----~- '{'.\';~ ~--t*-<i':/:>.;& Hugkk,with the bunt. VB Clinic Union head volleyball coach. Softball The Union College women's softball team will continue its quest for a bid in the New York State playoff.s when it hasts Skidmore on Friday, April 24. Five games into the 1981 season, coach Jane Hopkins' Dut- chwomen have proven them- selves competitive and have campletely turned things around compared to the beginning of 1980. A year ago at this time, Hopkins' squad had lost its opening four games and any hope of a playoff opportunity. This time arollnd, Union is 2-3 with six games remaining on the schedule. \We have to win at least five of our remaining games in • ' ' • ' ' ' ' I- I ' .' : '• \ ' . . ~ ' ' . ~ ' - . . in Playoff Qu~st order to qualify for the tow-- nament and I truly believe that we can do that,\ said Hopkins, who is in her second year at the helm. Union, which came on to win five of its last seven games for a 5-6 record in 1980, opened this season with a heartbreaking 8-7 nine-inning loss to Russell Sage. The setback did not dampen the players' spirits however, as they came back to record a 16-10 win over RPI. The Dutchwomen then dropped a 13-8 decision to St. Rose before knocking off Albany State, 10-4. Siena recorded an 8-2 win and Union's Easter Saturday game at Skidmore was to be rescheduled. First basemen Carol Wrenn, a junior, leads the women with a .600 batting average and seven runs batted in. Kelly Liese and catcher Lynn LeBlanc are both well over .300 and have com- billed for 10 hits and eight runs. Pitching remains thin for Union as sophomore Dina Pliotis has carried all of the load. ln four games, Pliotis has hurled 29.1 out of a possible 32 innings. She has a 2-2 record and a 3.62 ERA. Thus far fielding lapses have proven to be Union's main downfall. The team has com- mitted 25 errors while giving up 24 unearned runs. Of the 34 rWls allowed by Pliotis, only 15 have been earned. Lynne Barta, will condnct a two-session coaches' clinic on Saturday, June 27 at 8:30 a.m. until 4 p.m. at Memorial Field House. Barta, who has been at Union since 1977, owns a record of 57-35 and has earned playoff berths twice in the New York State Association -·of Inter- collegiate Athletics for Women. During the 1980 seasori, Barta's Dutchwomen captured first place in the New England Tournament. with registration. From 9: 15 a.m. until 11:30 a.m. \fun- damentals of volleyball\ will cover skills such as setting, passing, spiking, dunking, blocking, serving, digging, sprawls, and roll. From 11:30 a.m. until12:00 p.m. Barta will cover the .organization of practices. Morri·son Leads Clinic Barta has also been coach of the 1978 and 79 Open Division team for th Empire State Games as well as being head clinician for the United States Volleyball Association Level II coaches' clinic. The first session of this year's clinic will begin at 8:30 a.m. The second session will begin at 12:30 p.m. with registration. At 1 p.m., Coach Barta will discuss offenses with a discussion of defenses scheduled for 1:45 p.in. Tran- sitions, breaks, served reception formations, volleyball films and analysis and a question-and-answer period will conclude the clinic. Fee for the clinic is $25 per session or $40 for both sessions. Martha Morrison, head field hockey coach at Union College, will offer a two-day clinic for coaches in field hockey on Friday, June 5th and Saturday,· June 6th. The program is designed to upgrade skills and player's performances in the areas of transitional, midfield and corner play as well as to compare traditional and system styles of play. Coach Morrison came to Union College in 1978 as the Racquet men Hit Hot Hand By H.D. HOFFMAN The Union College tennis team upped their record to 3-2 last week, romping over Skidmore on April 15th and Siena on April 16th. In addition to these wins, the Dutchmen easily handled the Schenectady Men's Club in a scrimmage on April 12th, 5-l. The \Skiddies\ didn't give the Union men very much trouble, which the 8-1 final score shows. Captain Barry Rosen- berg annihilated his opponent at first singles, with a double bagel, 6-0, 6-0 score. Tom (;) \Rocky\ Lestina also won ~ handily, 6-1, 6-2, as did Dwight .; Moore, 6-2, 6-0 and Dave Katz, 6- 0 0, 7-5. Bob Stratton had to work a bit harder at 6th singles, but ..., came away with a three set <( victory, winning the last set in a £ ''barn-burning\ 9-point o tiebreaker. There were also two ¢ exhibition singles matches cr played at the 7th and 8th positions, with Howie \Sky\ Brodsky and Hank Hoffman both easily winning in two sets. Dave Patalita, still fighting a painful sunburn received in Miami, Florida over vacation, lost a tight match, 4-6, 6·4, 3-6. Yet \Pads\ was able to tough Barry Rosenberg shows his form and Katz, and sophomore Patalita. Moore and Lestina, at the number two and three positions, respectively, brought their matches into three sets, but both maintained control the whole way and eventually won. The same three doubles teams out a win at third doubles with partner Moore, as did the other two Union teams of Rosenberg and Antiles, and Eskenazi and Katz. >. that destroyed Skidmore ~ repeated their performances ~ against Siena, which made the +- final score of the match 9.0. ~ head women's field hockey and lacrosse coach. While at Union, she has posted a 41-14-3 record in field hockey and has been invited to the New York State Tournament twice. She has also coached teams that have won both the silver and bronze medals in field hockey at the Empire State Games as well as being the Northeast Squad Coach at the Nationals in 1980. Assisting coach Morrison with the clinic will be Charlyn Robert, a three-year player on the Northeast Squad and a participant at the Nationals during those years. Robert, who is currently the field hockey coach at Cambridge Central School, was a member of the Olympic Development Program for two years and was also involved with the Empire State Games. The clinic will begin on Friday, June 5th at 6:30 p.m. with an hour-long registration. Women's lacrosse standout Holly Howard has been saluted as the Miller Athlete of the Week; this is the second time she has been awarded this prestigious honor. Holly has scored eight goals and several assists during the past week. The scoring barrage started with a five goal per- formance during a 13-1 victory over Russel Sage on Thursday. Holly conti.;1ued her hot scoring with four goals in Saturday's 8-6 lo~s to Hartwick. This scoring rampage has boosted Holly to the teams leading scorer with eighteen goals. Being the leading scorer is nothing new for Holly. Last year Siena was the Dutchmen's next victim, being manhandled in a heavy wind last Thursday. In individual play, Rosenberg again triumphed hands down, along with freshmen Antiles The Racquetmen have some ~ tough teams still to come in E their schedule, including 0 powerful Colgate, and Hamilton 13 and Middlebury. However, the t£. team is hot now, and with a few breaks, anything could happen. Athlete of the Week Holly Howard shoots in goal. From 7 untll 8:15 p.m. in· struction will be directed toward \ball control\ and \stickwork\ with skills in \attack\ scheduled from 8:30 until 9:45. On Saturday, registration will take place from8:30 a.m. unti19 a.m. with \defense\ covered from 9 a.m. until 10: 15 a.m. and \systems\ the topic from 10:30 a.m. until noon. From noon until1: 15 p.m. the \extras\, such as selection of players for positions, con- ditioning, college selection and playing opportunities will be covered. The fee for the clinic will be $10 per session or $45 advanced registration for the entire program. A fee .of $55 will be charged for at the door registration for the entire program. For further information, contact Coach Morrison at Union's Alumn1 Gym, 370-6284. Athlete·of the Week Holly led Women's Hacrosse in both goals a!ld assists. Her scoring :was m· strumental in leading the team to its first winning season since the program.s inception in 1975. Holly plays the third home position which affords her many opportunities to score, which she has taken advantage of often. Holly is a sophomore from Hartford Connecticut. She is an Economics major who is in· volved in many Block U ac· tivities. Holly is also an out- standing field hockey player who was awarded the Most Valuable Player Award last year. Holly attended Kingswood Oxford in West Hartford, Conn., where she played four years at both Varsity Lacrosse and Varsity Field hockey. In high school, Holly was named the Outstanding Female Athlete and M.V.P. in Field Hockey. Good luck to Holly for the rest of the season. WOMEN'S SPORTS WRITERS NEEDED

Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS, April SS, 1981 '- Q) c: .... Q) .....! Q) > Q) - <f) >- ..0 0 .... 0 ..t: fl. ~ <1.1 c ~ (I) .....! <1.1 > (I) ... (/') > ..0 0 ... 0 - ..t: a. Tod Fobare assists in the putout Syracuse Ranked No. 3 in Country: Baseball· Splits Pair- A loss to Williams College and a victory over Hartwick, marked the second week of competition for the Union College baseball team. Playing at Williams in very cold, and windy conditions the Dutchmen dropped a .game that they should have won. Rallying to take the lead on three oc- casions, the team was unable to put away the Williams squad and thus suffered a 16-11 set- back, dropping their overall record to 1-5. Junior pitcher Glenn Kinns w~s tagged wltb the loss, dropping hirn to 0-3, for the young season. Offensively the Dutchmen were led by Don Thompsofi', St'eve Gall and George Oberstadt, who each collected hits. Laxmen Lose to Syracuse on Thursday tlie baseball team defeated Hartwick College 9•6. Playi.ng sloppy defense throughout the first three innings, Union fell behind 4-0 and appeared to be in serious trouble. The Dutclunen got two ~ runs back in the bottom of the third, when Mike Saccocio led off with a double and scored when George Oberstadt's ground ball to second was thrown away. Advancing -to second base on the errant throw, Oberstadt stole to third and scored when Joe Wood grounded out to second. The Dutchmen grabbed the lead with three more runs in the fourth. Don Thompson- started the ralley with a line single to right. Thompson then stole both to second and to third. With two runners at the corners, Thompson broke for home and scored when Tom Fobare laid down a perfect bunt, making the score 4-3. Union took the lead as Mike Saccocio drilled a home run to center, scoring Al DiLibero. The Union lead did not last long. In the top of the fifth Hartwick rebotinded with two runs taking a6-5 advantage. In the sixth inning the score was knotted at 6. Todd Fobare walked, stole. second, advanced to third on a ground out, ·and scored on George Oberstadt's single. Union pitcher Wayne Riker checked Hartwick in the seventh and in the bottom of that inning Un'ion broke the game wide open. On_!!e again Thompson led off with a single and stole .second base. He ad- vanced to third when Dilibero's bunt was mishandled. DiLibero then stole second base and with runners at second and third, Fobare delivered a clutch single to right scoring Thompson and DiLibero and giving the Dut- chmeri.-a two run lead. George This past week, the Union Lacrosse team matched up against the season's toughest opponent, the Orangement from Syracuse University. Entering the game ranked third in Division I, Syracuse arrived at Union to play what was to be their final lacrosse game against the Dutchmen; ending an annual matchup which is looked forward to by the Union team. The Dutctunen began the game playing relatively even with the Orangemen; however, after the first couple of Syracuse goals were registered on the scoreboard, it seemed that the dominating Division I force would make it a long afternoon. Early in the second half, with Syracuse leading 11-0, the Union tearn tried to remove the zero from the scoreboard and show that they still had some pride left. With out- standing face-off technique exhibited by Dave Schwnann, the Dutchmen were able to control the ball on the offense for a longer time. Even though the team managed to slow down the powerful Syracuse team; with the super playing of John Mercer and Stevern Koscs, who shared the goal duty and directed the defense, the Orangemen succeeded in in- Dave Schumann dodges through Syracuse defense. UNION COLLEGE LACROSSE STATISTICS Record: 2-6 Score by quarters Union 17 23 24 21 --85 Opponents 23 34 41 22 --120 Scoring Name P. G A Pts. Sean Durham - A 29 13 42 Jim Wright A 17 9 26 Larry Salberg A 9 9 18 Brian Walck M 5 6 11 Mark Sackerson M 9 0 9 Steve Myers M 6 1 7 Mike Maluccio M 1 4 5 Chris Smith A 3 1 4 Dave Schumann M 2 1 3 Andy Larkin A 1 1 2 Jamie Bono M 1 1 2 Chris Davis M 1 1 2 Bob Gaylord D 1 0 1 Don Beall M 0 l 1 Dana Johnston D 0 l 1 Dana Johnston -- D 0 1 1 ( p .. Position) Union's Totals 85 49 134 Opponent's Totals 120 72 192' Goalie Saves Goals John Mercer 86 84 Steve Koscs 33 36 creasing their lead to an even greater extent. Nevertheless, the Dutchmen rallied to put four goals up on the scoreboard; Sean Durham being credited with two, and Brian Walck and Larry Salberg each claiming one. Union missed out on many scoring opportunities, while Syracuse held strong. As the final whistle sounded, the score stood at 25-4. The Dutchmen were forced to accept another loss, but not in total disap- pointment. The Dutchmen travel to play another tough opponent, arch rival RPI this Saturday. Player AB Oberstadt 23 Saccocio 25 Go II 18 Wood 25 Di Libero 24 Thomson 22 Fobare 19 Dreher 23 Brown 12 McGrath 2 Moriarty 6 Kinns Riker Team 199 Pitcher McGrath Riker Kinns Goll Wood Fobare Team R 5 5 4 4 7 4 2 5 l 37 BASEBALL STATISTICS HR RBI 6 1 6 1 4 7 2 3 2 2 30 IP ERA w ·11 2.4 1 9 4.0 . 1 21 5.5 0 .3 6.0 0 5 12 0 2 13 0 51 5.6 2 · Oberstadt iced the game when be doubled home Fobare, making the score 9-6. The game's defensive star was third baseman Tod, \Spanky\ Fo.bare, who handletl several chances at third. The winning pitcher was ,senior Wayne Riker, 1.0, who made his first start of the year. His return to the Union rotation gives a great boost to the pitching staff. Considering thatthe team plays 15games in 19daysthe return of Riker is crucilil if the Dutchmen aretobe involved in post season play. The neld: game will be Tuesday, April 28, against ·colgate. BB 3 3 4 3 1 7 4 4 9 1 36 L 0 0 3 0 1 1 5 SB 4-4 3-3 1-2 2-2 6-6 2-2 1-2 1-1 20 AVG. .391 .360 .333 .240 .208 .181 .157 .130 .083 .000 .000 .231 Union Sailors Fare Well in Debut By GEOFF YOUNGMAN This past weekend, while many were traveling home to celebrate Passover or Easter, four members of the Union College Yacht Racing Association ventured down to West Point, New York, to participate in the Army Mule Regatta. Among the many schools represented, SUNY Maritime, Army, and Navy were the heavy favorites. John Manuel and Melissa Murphy sailed in the B Division for Union, with Geoff Youngman and Jon Whitney in the A. Saturday, the sailors were met by flukey winds and a strong tide. The A Division managed to sail two races, but the B's, faced with an im- possible tide and blasting puffs, were barely able to complete a single race. Many of the boats were not even able to cross the starting line against the tide, and many tipped, -giving the sailors a very chilly swim. By the end of the day, one boat had been hit by an ocean-going barge (no casualties for~ tunately), and the first mark of the course, having broken loose, was on its way to New York City along with various shoes and other equipment. The Army sailing coach, Captain Howard, commented that this was some of the worst sailing weather that they had ever experienced there. Easter Sunday proved to· be less trying fer the racers, as the conditions stabilized with a fairly steady breeze and moderate tides. The Union sailors fared well, and when the last race was over, they were in a combined fourth place overall, with the tbree favorites finishing as predicted. The next regatta for-the Union sailors is at Webb Institute on Long Island over Parents' . Weekend. They will again face tough competition, but hope to break through the Army, Navy SUNY Maritime, and King's Point monopoly of the inid- Atlantic intercollegiate sailing circuit. 5 - Vc r/1 \'0> '- Ill ..t: u 02 Ill ·;: Ill .1: u £ Ci .... 0 ·..c I a. . p ( E intt ne' An1 of 1 em for me n: stu an~ cor sin ( Ori is.t for stu inc sm m~: ac~ Cat pr<

Speciai.Parents' Weekend Section In -- . 1)~0 ~~ !)~.$ <I) ·;: fll ..c:: u £ ci 0 ·..c:: a. VoL 110, 'No. 21 Professor Martha Huggins 0 A's Are Announced Each year freshmen move into tl)eii sophomore class and new freshmen take_ their place. And each year there is a group of people called the Orientation Committee who run Orientation for both tran~fers and fr,esh- men. This yeprts co:ronllttee of 17 stu~ents want$ to orient new students to Union in a realistic and positive way. Ac- complishing this, however, is no simple matter. . One of the first things the Orientation Committee must do is to select Orientation Advisors for each group. ThiS group of students works directly with incoming students to provide a smooth transition into most major aspects of personal, academic and social life on campus. This is done through a process of interviewing and - discus·sion. During selection each candidate is reviewed ol:)jectively by the entire committee. \Candidates are- selected not _by the personal preference of the committee, but through the qualities they possess whjch would make tbem good O.A.ts\ comments co-chairperson~ 1\elly Dennin. The committee emphasizes .that the process is a fair one and that they had many excellent -:can- '- didates to choose from .. There --~ were over 300 students who ~­ applied for a position this >- -spring,. a large increase over -g mittee is to recruit interested professors to be Faculty Orientation Advisors (FOA's).. Continued on page 5 · the nwnber that applied in ~ previous years. The selection process took over 35 hours. E' There will be two meetings -E this term for all those selected. ..c:: Times will be announced. n. The next task of the com- Kelly Dennin Orientation Co-Chairman 3 1981 1877 Thursday, A.pril 30, 1981 Spring Colloquium: El Salvador By ANDY SOBEL In the second of our series of reports on the unsung academic programs of Union College, we focus this week on Latin American Studies - a U11ion Qollege discipline just starting to come into its own q,_s the beneficiary of renewed and increased student interest in El Salvador. El Salvador, in fact, was the topic of discussion in the first of four \seminars\ of the Spring Colloquium on Latin America, a project sponsored by the Latin American Studies department (Professors Ginsberg, Hugginst Ihrie, Nichols and Bristol) in cooperation with the In- ternational Relations Club, and Amnesty International. The program, entitled ''El Salvador: Another Vietnam?\ was the recipient of massive student support and campus enthusiasm. Some students were there to express their opinions of government repressiont and others were there with questions vis - a - vis possible Communist (Russian and Cuban) arms sales to El Salvadorean guerriHas. Professor Huggins originally hoped for a showing of 50 concerned individuals, but was instead delighted by a turnout of, as she estimates, \close to 150 people.\ An impressed Prof. Huggins furthermore came to the defense of the much m;:Jligned student body t stating . that \Union is certainly not politically apathetic. When an issue is important enough to merit attention, such as El Salva do•, the campus com- munity has not remained aloof to the situation.\ And as Prof. Huggins emphasizes, \No matter what the reason for studentinterest, all the students there were exposed to both the specific issue of El Salvador, and the broader discipline of Latin American Studies.\ The second in the series of seminars will be held this Thursday, (Yes, Today!) April 30th, at 7 :00, in Strauss Lounge. It is entitled \The Future of U.S. Foreign Policy in Revolutionary Central America,\ with guest speakers Fr. Paul Newpowert of the Maryknoll Order, and Dr. Carla Robbins, of . American University and the Woodrow Wilson Center. Professor Huggins herself is an expert in Latin American Affairs. Origillally influenced by a history professor in graduate school at the University of New Hampshire, she 'has taught for 2 years as a visiting professor at the Federal ·university of Pernambuco, Brazil, on a grant from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy (Tufts-Harvard). She was back there in the summer of 1980 doing research on crime and social control and will be visiting the Southern Hemisphere once again in the summer of 1981, on a Fulbright Fellowsbip. Professor Huggins strongly recominends anyone interested in Latin American Studies, from all disciplines; to Continued on page 2 Calling All Alumni • •· . By NAOMI BLANK -_The phonathon, one of the means by which the Campaign for Union raises funds, took place April 27 through 30. After alumni make the initial calls, the ninth student phonathon follows from May 4 through 7. The purpose of the phonathon is to gcun contributions from alumni nation-wide. Any alwnnus that has not responded to requests up to date is con- tacted and asked to contribute. Phonathons have already been conducted in Baltimore, Chic.ago, Denvert and New York. · The student phonathon continues the process for an additional four days. Students are broken into teams with prizes awarded to both in- dividuals and teams. Last year 173 students participated and raised $37,000 of the $123,000 in .pledges from all phonathons. Paul Reischick, Director of the Annua-l Fund stated that, \Students seem to enjoy it (the phQnathon). Last year was the best phonathon we ever had. The alumni enjoy talking to students and the students were effective callers for us.\ Contributions exist in many forms: bequests in wills to Union College, outright gifts (as in the one from Stanley Becker), insurance policies with Union College as a · beneficiary, and individual gifts such as jewelery, property, stock, and artwork. The money from the two professorships 11amed _this. year (Prof. Jonas and Prof. Robins) goes toward the endowment fund. Through these professorships the fund now pays for their salaries, thus relieving the operating budget from the responsibility. ' The endowment of scholar- ships, usually at a minimwn of $10,000 is also requested of both alumni and parents. When donated, the money may be used for a requested purpose, yet placing the donation in the general endowment fund is put to general campus needs. Most alumni are involved in some way with the Campaign for Union with money to the general endowment fund. \It is hoped,\ Paul added, \that they will give as much as they can annually to the annual fund.\ The annual fund is made up of parents and alumni con- tributions and donations made through the annual business campaign. Paul further ex- plained that \the phonathon stresses that through annual funds, funds are used for the operating budget for the school.\ Donations may be fairly specific, requesting that money be used for student scholarships, faculty salaries, or library facilities, for example. The Campaign for Union began in the spring of 1980. $17 million was gained during the background work that took place two years prior to the campaignts start. The cam- paign will run through the spring of 1984 and has set its ,goal at $38 million. Presently $23 million has been pledged and by June 30, 198lt its aim is $24 million. Of the $38 million, the annual fund, which included annual alumni contributions and gifts by parents and businessest has set its goal at $8 million. Presently the fund has $783,877. It hopes to attain $1.4 million by June 30, 1981. The remaining $30 million of the total $38 million is to be gained through gifts to the endowment, scholarships, and professorships. Paul concluded stating that, \We are having a very good year.\ More contributions have been made as of Aprill981 that had been made as of May 1980. With May and June being \good months\ the Campaign for Union is well underway.

Pa~e 2. OONOORDIBNSIS, Af)riZ $0, 1981 ~----------------------~~~~~~~~~---------------------------- Texas Dilemma: Alcohol Snags Elsewhere The Student Affairs Council recently abandoned plans for a campus~wide drinking survey. The survey had ~en designed to find out if students perceived a drinking problem on campus. The SAC was interested in determining if it were necessary to propose a campus alcohol policy. Several other colleges (Syracuse, Cornell) have im- plemented such programs, with limited success and more than a few problems. Other colleges have not found such programs necessary as the drinking age in their states is 21. This month legislators are debating making Texas the 15th state since 1973 to raise the legal age for drinking liquor from 18 to 21. By SUSAN CALHOUN But if the experience of college students in the other 14 states hold, Texas campus administrators might hope the legal age stays where it is. Indeed, college ad- ministrators around the country complain that raisirlg the legal age has caused more problems for them, ranging from in- creased donn violence and vandalism to loss of control over the student drinking that inevitably continues. In the meantime, officials say there's been no appreciable decrease in drinking on campuses in states where the age has been raised. \There is no evidence that raising the drinking age affects consumption,\ contends Dr. GeJ,\ardo Gonzales, director of the University' of Florida's Alcohol Information Center and president of BACCHUS (Boost Alcohol Consciousness Con- cerning the Health of University Students). Incoming college st..tdent;:s are simply determined to continue high school drinking habits, he says. \If they ( un- derage drinkers) want to get it, then they'll get it.\ \The drinking just went underground,\ agrees David Craft, director of mental health services at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst. Raising the age, he .says, \just removed one set of controls.\ Other administrators likewise mourn the removal of controls ·they say the lower drinking age laws provided. For instance, students used to be more likely to attend college-sponsored and controlled pubs and parties, where they would be carded and even refused service if cir- cumstances warranted it. At UMass, Dean William Field says the school even of- fered bartending classes to teach students how to tell if a party - or drinker - was spinning out of control. Additionally, school-spons- ored events also served non· alconolic drinks and foods that tempered drunken'ness. University of Texas pub manager Tom Owen, for one, says students tend to drink less at the pub because live en- tertainment diverts their at- , tention from alcohol. But Owen predicts an immediate decrease in pub attendance should the Texas drinking age be raised. Ken BurQham, UMass residential life official, says he knows where the students will go: to their rooms. The number of students who are not able to go to bars is more than offset by the number who drink in their donn rooms, he asserts. \It's obvious,\ Burnham told the campus newspaper. \A tour of the dumpsters on a Monday morning is clearly indicative of the drinking in the dorms onthe weekend.\ He adds, \There have been more and more in- cidents of discipline (problems) related to alcohol.\ Dan Garvey, assistant dean for student affairs at the University of New Hampshire, also says dorm violence definitely increased after the dr.inking age was pushed to age 20 in 1979. \It (raising the age) has had a real bad effect on the university,\ he admits. ''More students are getting loaded.\ Off campus, Amherst Police Chief Donald Maia reports a drastic increase in the nwnber of disturbances and arrests for possession of alcoholi.c beverages in a seven-month period after Massachusetts' law change in 1979., :During tbat time, 65 students were arrested, compared to 17 in the preceding 12 months. The situation seems far different from the results en- visioned by legislators in the 20 states that have either raised the age limit or considered raising it in the last eight years. State legislators in Maryland, Kansas, Minnesota and Michigan, for example, say they aimed at stopping .high school students .from getting liquor from 18-to-21 year-olds. But associated problems like car accidents continue to rise, and high school drinking rates are up, counters Florida's Gonzales, as well as Gail Milgram, director of education for Rutgers' Center for Alcohol Studies. Milgram estimates 70 percent of the nation's high school seniors are \regular drinkers.\ They go \to college with their habits already for- med. They'll continue them irrespective of legal im- plications,\ she says. Agrees Gonzales, ''It is assumed that changing the age has made a big difference in irresponsible drinking and drinking-related disciplinary problems, but the evidence says that isn't true.\ In response to the statistics, North Dakota legislator Marie Tierney· admits her state's 21- year-old age limit has been less /than successful. Saying the current law is simply \unen- forceable,\ she introduced a bill late in January that would lower the age to 18 .... the only such piece of legislation in the nation currently. But Rev. Allan Rice of Michigan's Council of Alcohol Problems, like other advocates, remains confident the higher age laws are worthwhile. He cites health statistics as proof that alcohol \complicates the maturation process both physically and mentally,\ and says the age hike has resulted in ''less peer approval (of drinking) and less frequent intoxication\ in the 18-to-21 year-old range. Michigan voters agreed by a 57 to 43 percent ratio to raise the age in 1978, confirmed their support last fall when they voted 62-58 percent to keep the age at 21. Rice now is \hoping for 'the restoration of 21 as the legal age all over the country.\ Currently 25 states - in- cluding the 14 since 1973- set hard liquor limits at age 21, although 10 of those allow beer and wine conswnption at age 18. But Milgram of Rutgers contends the laws are aimed at the wrong people if they're designed to solve \alcohol- related problems.\ She says more 2l to 24 year- old drunk drivers are arrested than from any other age .group. Twenty-one to twenty-four year- olds also are the ones most likely to be arrested for general rowdiness-fighting and van- dalism-caused by drinking. \If people really want to aim the laws at alcohol abusers, they should make the legal age 24 instead .of 21,\ she suggests. Administrators and researchers frustrated by the results of the age increases maintain the real solutions are found in educating teenagers. and adults alike about drinking problems. Gonzales :formed BACCHUS for that very reason four years ago. \You just can't say .'don't do it' and expect them not to without telling them why it is. bad .for them.\ BACCHUS is now in 15 states, with 23 chapters. At the University of Florida chapter., administrators launched a massive alcohol awareness campaign when the drinking age was raised last October.· Housing Director J am~s Grimm is adopting an \educational not prohibitive approach.\ SimUarly, the dean of student affairs at Michigan's Grand Valley State Colleg~ Richard Mehler, says he ''prefers people spend enetgy on teaching I .._ Union. College's. Rathskellar might be less crowded if there were a higher N.Y.S. drinking age, but some officials think drinking wou.ld be more of a problem then. · responsible drinking rather than spending energy on ,prohibition.'' All the talk about legislation, Milgram concludes, \ap .. proaches the issue from the back door.\ It'sa vain hope, she says, that, by the time people turn 21 \they'll have outgrown bad drinking habits.\ Wage Bill in Congress . Continued from p~~ge 3 \They'd .rather try and hold the . line on minimum (wage), and let inflation do the dirty work.\ Still, elFemption opponents, who deride the legislation as the \McDonalds Windfall Profits Act,\ expect renewed lobbying for the exemption soon, and certain victory for it if the Republicans gain control of the House of Representatives in 1984. They'll be lobbying for three bills in particular. Sen. Orrin Hatch's (R-UT) version allows businesses to pay teenage or full-time student workers 75 percent or less of the legal minimum wage. Two others - by Sen. Charles Percy (R-D) and Rep. Carroll Campbell (R- SC) - call for 85 percent of minimum wage levels. The student bills, Tiner contends, will \put full-time students in competition with every other teenager.\ They'll do worse than that, says Frank Viggiano of the U.S. Student Association. \The bills would encourage students to hide their full-time status or even reduce their status to part-time\ in order to make more money, Viggiano predicts. El Salvador Continued from page l. pursue Union's Term Abroad in Development Stadies, in Bogota, Colombia. 'I'he language requirements have been kept to Spanish 10 \specifically adds Prof. Wiese, ''to encourage scie11ce and non-humanities students who don't have the time for intense langua~e in~truction.\ Deceit becomes almost piandat()ry for older students, Viggiano addS. ''The fastest growing sector of students is now women over 35, many of whom have dependents and who can ill afford to have a large cut in pay. Many of these people are heads of households, and sould be forced to drastically reduce their course loads.\ Fritsch, on the other hand, feels. student sub-minimum wages \probably wouldn't have such adverse effects. Many students are just working to buy books and stuff, and generally aren't impoverished.\ \In college, students may not mind slinging harnourgers for a while,'' theorizes Steve Hychka of the National Association of College and University Business Officers, \because they're studying to be doctors or something where they'll be earning a lot more. Or sometimes they're just working to supplement scholarships.\ Hychka f~els that many students ''prefer getting a job at sub-minimwn than no job at all.\ R.o bert Bradford of the National Restaurant Association told a congressional meeting that the recent raise in Prof. Huggins is quick to add however, that 1 '~anguages are still an intense and important facet of the Latin American studies major itself.\ Further along on that scheme, Professors Huggins, Wiese, Hayes, and Nichols are looking to develop a Develop- ment Term Abroad (no pun the minimwn wage may have abolished 500,000 full-time jobs~ Though most research in- dicates the minimum ' wage increase elhninated more non- student jobs than Student jobs, more than 25 percent of the nation's colleges and univer- sities already were exempted from paying students minimum wage for work-study jobs. Nevertheless, students at campuses from Stephens College in Missouri to Old Dominion in Virginia to Western State in Colorado who got the minimum wage as of January 1 foWld their hours were cut back to compensate for the higher costs to their schools. Yet no one outside of Congre~s is willing to predict that giving students sub- minimum wages Will create new jobs. \Frankly we do not know\ how many jobs would be created by tampering with the - minimum wage, says Bradford - of the restaurant associatiQn, whose members are, he· says, the largest employers of young people. \So little is known about the extent of potential job creation effects,\ he testifie~. intended) which would feature % term in Brazil and ¥2 term in Africa. The potential of this terna depends a great deal on support and subsidies from an outside fomtdation. If the Latin American Colloquium is any indication, these long-range plans should be a success. Volunteers soliciting donations by telephone Monday ·night - Co I w Don wor ·busi who talte is a w of Fed• peo1 worl Whi1 desi thin] busi thaiJ Tl com how Jam Colli becc wag cam stud thei1 wag Bt one Con1 allo tee11 stud perc mini Al alre wag men busi pay mini exer men But gov• dep~ plyiJ law Ct let e num less theiJ Tl si ti 1 th

OONOOBDIENS18, ApriZ 30, 1981 Congress-Considering for Students: Lo~er Wages By,BELEN CORDES WASIDNGTON, D.C. (CPS)- Don White knows what kind of worker is best in retail businesses. He prefers someone who \ha$ an 80 I.Q. or higher, takes a few showers a week, and is a st.udent.\ work more than 20 hours per week. \Every time a restriction on the student (wage) program was loosened,~.. observes Conrad Fritsch of the Minimum Wage Study Commission, a government-authorized con- sUlting group, ''there's been a dramatic increase in the nwnber of businesses applying for exemptions.'' - White, who is vice president of the American Retail Federation, also would prefer- people who fit the profile to work for less. In response to White's and other trade groups' desir~S; Congress is now thinking of making it easier for· businesses to· pay students less than the legal minimum wage. In 1977, when husinesses were allowedto employ six inStead of four students at sub-minimum wages, the munber of firl:Os applying for· exemptions leapt from 963 to 5,600, Fritsch says. Bob Umardi gets to know the campus better with a new sign near Memorial Chapel The minimum wage; of course, was raised from $3.10 an hour to $3.35 art hour only last January . 1, when students on College \Y_ork.Study programs became eligible for minimum wage forthe first time. Most off- campus businesses employing students have always hadto pay their workers the minimum wage. Fritsch concedes that, \there's S()rnething to what businesses say. It does take time for the Dept. of Labor to process their · applications. There are not ;enol!gh ap- plication reviewers, and there's a lot of. paperwork.,; CampusProiects Underway But all that coUld change if one of three bills now in Congresses passes. 'i'he bills allow employers to pay teenagers and full-time students of any age j\lSt 85 · percent (or lower) of the $3.35 minimum. · A new stlldent exemption, however' wollld mean \a lot more students'' would work for sub-minimum wages, ·Fritsch claims. . Union politicking, though, has probably stopped enactment of any of the three bills so far. The Reagan administration is backing off the idea, while representatives of fast food chains and the U. S. Chamber of Commerce declined to testify at r.ecent congressional hearings. By SUE BLOOMBERG Extensive projects around campus, under the dil1ection of Jaek Hi,ll, have started in both the Nott Memorial and Schaffer Library. Presently, according to Mr. Hill, they are \looking at correcting any internal deficiency in the Nott.\ An electrical engineer has sur- veyedthe Nott for any defects in stage wiring and lighting. A number of corrections to the emergency lighting and exit signs has been made. The possibility·of adding a sprinkler system to the Nott is also being evaluated presently by main- tenance . . Another project ·being pura sued in the Nott is being handled by ~the Theatre Department. In an effort to, clear out materials that are fire hazards in the Nott, the Theatre Department has already begun to make progress. Improvements on the ·heating system are being made in the library and will be \completed in June,\ according to Jack Hill. The new system being added supplies a variable air volume, which will result in a more even temperature in the library. Jack Hill commented that many concerns rose before that \this job might cause· the college community not to have access to parts of the library.\ '!1his has· turned out to be an unnecessary concern. The project has caused little in- convenience and will be com- pleted soon. Along with these projects, maintenance has installed some directional signs in what Jack Hill terms as the ''first phase of the signage program.\ This includes signs being placed on Library Lane, the Administration building and a campus directory in front of Security. · Additional phases will begin when more funding is available for this project. According to Mr. Hill, \the goal of this project is to have signs designating all buildings on campus.\ About 500,000 student workers alr.eady get sub~minimum wages under special govern- ment exemptions. Colleges and businesses can win the right to pay student workers sub-~ minimum wages if they get exemptions from the _ depart- ments of Education and Labor. But both employers complain governmenT regulations and departmental sloth tnake ap- plying ·for exemptions from the law not worth the .effort. Their .reluct~nce, some unionists say, derives from their fear that a student exemption wvuld · mean amending the Fair Labor- Standards A~t. ''Businesses know the unions will push for an increase in .minimum wage.\ if the amendment process statts, says Michael Tiner of the United Food and Commercial Workers International· Union. Phaup Speaks to House Current legislation now would let employers hire an unlimitea- number of Students at $2.85 or less per hour, and would restrict them only from letting them \The adndnistration doesn't want to touch the act,\ agrees Charles,Brown of the Minimum Wage Study Commission. Student Forum Positions Available: President, 2 Vice Presidents, Junior Trustee, and 3 representatives each for the Classes of '82, '81, and '80. E. Dwight Phaup, associate professor of economics; recently appeared before the Subcommittee on Illtemational Trade of the House of Representatives Committee on Barikipg. The subcommittee is conducting oversight hearings on the Export..:Import Bank and, in particular, on whether the budget authorization of the • Bank should be reduced, as has been suggested by the Reagan Administration. Election bates Petitions are available in Student Activities. Last fall, Phaup participated in a study of the federal budget process, commissioned by the Heritage Foundatio.n, a Washington, D.C., \think- tank.\ Phaup's essay on this country's international affairs budget, which included com- ments on the Export-Import Bank, is said to be the basis of the Administration's proposal to slash foreign aid. Petitions due: May 4 {Monday) . Statements to Concorciiensis due: May 4 (Monday) Elections: May 12 (Tuesday) · Run-offs: May 14 (Tuesday) .Details or Questions, Call: --Joe Cristofaro, Elections Comm. Chairman, 382-9688 --Dave O'Connor, Student Forum President, 382-9582 -·Cathy Jo~nson, V .P. of Student Forum,. 370-691.4 CONCORDIENSIS statements are not to exceed 150 words and are to be submitted with a head +shoulders phetograph to Mrs .. Marra. If you heed a photo taken. give your name, room number, and phone number to Mrs. Marra by tomorrow at 3:00. In -his testimony before the House, Phaup told sub- committee members,. \There are no compelling national policy reasons not to reduce the Union College Speaker's Forum presents ROBE·RT WALDEN LOU GRANT Friday, May 9 p.m., Mem.orial Chapel The first 15 people to sign up in Student Ac~ tivitieswiH be invited to the reception. $1 w-Union I D $1.50 general pub I ic The following students were elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa at a meeting which was held on Monday, April 27,1981. Juniors in the top 2\percent of their class and Seniors in the top 7 .percent of their cla.ss are considered for election to Phi-BetS~- Kappa. Further, Seniors nominated by two faculty members ate also eligible tor consideration. Election is based on scholarship and character, with ~rticular at- tention given to Intellectual maturity and breadth. The Phi Beta Kappa Society was founded at the College of William and Mary in 1776. Union's chapter, Alpha of NeVI( York, was established i.n 1817 and is the fifth oldest in the country. Election .to membership is one of the highest distinctions to be gained by academic achievement. Class of 1981 s. Kr'istin Forsberg Mark E. Osborrr Jonathan Axel Nancy-Gagllano Richard Rizzo+ Lori Barth Mark P. Garwacki Alan G. Saler Mchele Beaulieu Steven Geller+ C. Davis Sprague .Robert C. Berlin + !fenneth Gold+ Daniel Storch Anne Marie Browy Jacqueline Gutmann David Van Wess Douglas Bruril Brad. Karp Janet Wieselthier Howard M. Cooper Christopher Mahoney Craig Williams Beth Do~ogusker Robert McHugh Stephan Witt Susan Farley Roberta Moss Tamara Wolfson Janice Fischer Lisa Myers+ Lawrence Zotln +-·a cross Indicates that t~e student was elected in the Junior year. Class of 1982 John· c. Chaloupka Dina DiFrancesco Jeffrey Erskine Alicia Granlund Kenneth D. Murphy Marie A. Savoie Phyllis Sternberg Professor Phaup of the Economics Dept. budget of the Bank, and there which results in the cessation of are persuasive arguments for inflationary pressures which such a reduction.'' 'fhe .Export~ reduces governmental' claims Import Bank, or Eximbank, on the credit markets and provides lo~s, refinancing of which curtails costly f~deral export credits, loan guarantees, regulations would do more for and insurance to promote U.S. U.S. export performance than a exports. trebling of Eximbank's \.An overall econmp.ic policy budgetary authority,\ Phaup which encourages mcreased told Congress. investment and productivity, Never Forget By DARRELL SEIFE In a resolution passed by the Israeli Government (Knesset) in 1951, May 1 was proclaimed as \the Holocaust and Ghetto Uprising Remembrance Day\ - a day. of perpetual remem- brance by Israel and the rest of the world for the victims of the Holocaust. This date was chosen because it falls between . that of the Warsaw Ghetto uprising (which began on the first day of Passover) and the Israel War of Independence Remembrance Day. Tomorrow, Friday, May 1, we must pause to remember the six million members of the Jewish people who died a martyr's death at the hands of the Nazis and their collaborators. The nature of the Holocaust is unique. Millions of Jews - some for periods of twelve years - lived under the all prevading Nazi power. Tortured by anxiety, insecure in the present, and unable to anticipate the future, they were helpless in the face of a tremendous machine ready to crush them. What resulted was that a whole generation of Jews, six million of them, were systematically uprooted and sent out to die. To commemorate ..-the Holocaust Remembrance Day, Yom Hashoah, the Jewish Students Organization (Hillel) will present. a Midnight Memorial Service on Thursday, April 30, in Strauss Lounge. All are urged to. attend this special event, We Must Never Forget.

~~ge 4 OONOORDlENSIS, A11ril 30 1 1981 .. featur~ Fountain Blooms In Garden • •. ... The conceptualized fountain .of Jackson's Gardens ~ My, My, Croquet i By STEVE the game, stop by in front of >- Carnegie and have a brother ~ show you howto use his mallet. 0 For anY further information lf call 382-8973. Don't delay, Croquet today. By ROBERTA RUBINSTEIN. During the spring term of 1979 a group of senior students set to work on building the Fo.untain which can now be seen in Jackson's Garden. The Fountain is situated on a cir- cular bed just belos the Robison Herb Garden. It consists ·of a circular pool :with a pump in the center which Will function to shoot the water into the air. Because the building of the Fountain did not begin until late in the school year (of 79)., the seniors were not able to com- plete the job. They began work in May of that year, and a great deal had to be accomplished. First a hole had to be dug for the pool itself and then a ditch had Union's uncompleted fountain to be made ln order to bring in ,electrical lines and water lines. After this was done a dozen students got together to pour the concrete, andtbe most. difficult part of the project was then completed.- The school year soon came to an end, but the piping needed to bring the water fo the Fountain was not yet installed. Professor Harlow, of the Civil Engineering Department, in- ~f.crrned me that local con- tractors came in last faU and completed the necessary in- stallations. ''The students got tbe worst part ofthe job done,\ Professor Harlow said, and just rEcently the contractors in- stalled the piping and .pwnp pit which rendered the Fountain fully operative. During the time that the stu~ents were working on this proJect, one student, Debbie Schwartz, made a ·sketch of Ogden Nash's Unicorn. This sketch was intended to be a model for a sculpture the · students hoped would ac- company the Fountain. No one has attempted to sculpt this vivid sketch yet, but the idea has not been widely publicized. The location of the Fountain, below the Robison Herb Gar- den, is a feature that should not be overlooked. Ellis Robison donated $70,000 (which was received by_ Prof. Harlow} for the building and earing of the garden. It consists of culinary and various other herbs which are planted in raised beds surrounded by stone walls. Whether this setting is a major attribute to the Fountain, or the - Fountain is a major attribute to the herb garden is difficult to tell. And a sculpture of the fairytaled Unicorn could only add to the quiet setting. · Though of yet the Fountain has not been functioning, it is expected to be fully operative sometime thi.s spring. . _ The Delta Chi Croquet Tournament for the benefit of the American Cancer Society is to be held on Sunday, May 10. Tickets are now available from the croqueting crowd of br;others and other players on the green in front of Carnegie Hall. Tickets .are $10 for a team of four. Blue Skies Over Union: The price of admission in- cludes an invitation to Cocktails at the house the Saturday night before the tournament, mint juleps and preferential use of lawn chairs on the day of the Tournament: and the chance to win many savory prizes in- cluding croquet sets, soccer balls, bottles of booze, and the prestige of befug crowned U Coli's 1981 Croquet Champs. Passing the Inspection By D. BOO'l'H other intimate details, your oXford shirt. Ties are in order with you. In the meantime you knees begin to quake. The little for evening. and your girl can sneak off for a Get your team together now. Spaces are limited. If you are not familiar with the skills of This is it, the big weekend. Your girlfriend's ·parents are arriving Friday night, and .she wants you to meet them. Worse than this, they want to meet you. For some obscure reason, remem~ring breakfast in bed when her parents called and you answered the phone, or the weekend you took her to the mountains- alone, or numerous Delta Chi Croquet for \c elL • ~ ~ nar1ty ·~ ~..I Sunday, May 10 Sign Up· Now '10 for Cl team of four Spaces Limited At SDT: things like that haircut that's But aside from clothes, ac- brief review of game plans. If been needed, or pressing your tions are the most noticeable you have other invitations to best pair of pants, or digging out trait one possesses. It is parties because you serve on that suit are easy to get ready. perhaps not too intelligent to committees or are close friends But at the. heart of every give her mother a pinch and with someone throwing a party, potential suitor-boyfriend-lover say, \Oh ·sorry, I thought you by all means play it up for all it is the crucial question: \Maybe wel.\e your daughter.\ Instead is worth. It's all in the name of I am an asshole?\ don't mention looks at all; in impres~ing her parents with Well, don't worry, because meeting the 'rents is a casual, no-big-deal affair. Chances are they won't like you anyway, so one might as well be laid back. The first time I met my ex's parents, I wasn't wearing my glasses and accidentally walked right past them - and the ex: - without noticing. The ex called out twice before giving up and chasing after me. Great im- pression, right? Ah, yes, but you want to make a good impression. Well a lot can be said for the right clothes. No matter how much one enjoys those lime green pants with a pink shirt, it just isn't quite there for that important meeting. Stick to the most consezyative clothing possible. Remember that you.'re not trying to sexually attract her mother, but to impress her father with your stability. Wear some sexless khakis and an fact, ,don't even acknowledge your stability. tbey exist. It's far better to Of course her parents may be, briefly mention that you can see and most likely are, abnormal. where their daughter got her Instead of asking what your intelligence and lively per- major is, wnere you're from, S<Jnality. and how much your father . A void the physical. Don't drape your arm around their daughter's bare shoulders and slowly str.oke her upper arm while attempting to discuss the S()cio-economic affairs of Lichtenstein. Pretend you don't know that the word. \sex:\ exists. Just because you know tlieir daughter begs for it four tim~s a day doesn't mean they have to as well. Fimilly try_ to show them tbat you are an outgoing lively sort of fellow, With good possible future business connections. Take them to your fraternity CCJcktail party, where they can miK with other respectable parents and feel a little more comfortable than they might makes they may ask you more embarrassing questions. Like why you answered the phone in her bedroom the time they, called at 4:00 in the morning. Or even worse, they may be one of those liberal couples who like to · give advice . on methods of contraception and weddings. on the beach. Pretend to be in- terested anyway. Smile and be polite. After this ordeal you will doubtless be considered by her parents as the dullest, most stolid, young man they have ever tnet -- and naturally mtacceptable for their daughter except a~ a casuaJ fling. J~ remember she's your girlfriend, but they aren't your parents -·yet. Wickets and Balls 1 L- dl c: ~ i; c: 0 b Sigma Delta Tau, Union College - It's spring at Union College. Once again Union students are looking for a release from the grueling, demanding hours of studying which accompany a typical spring term. We, the members of the Union College Croquet Club (UCCC for Computer majors, UC for ri'iath majors and engineers) woUld like to announce and celebrate our discovering just-such a release. That's right: CROQUET! What a wonderful sport. When the tension has really risen or just after a grueling Tuesday, Thursday, li'riday or Saturday (sometimes Monday, Wed- nesday and-or Sunday) night of \studying it is a real release · to get out the old wickets; mallets and balls. Imagine a ,0 .. strong, well-aimed stroke and a mint julep, daquiri, beer or lemonade in hand. Ecstasy! .. . SOT Croquet Club convenes 0 .c: a. Pad v All ri historic Don'tr isn't a 1 might winter. You, Union'~ I thoug there. The CemetE green£ on Not Stewar Koala partly! shatter and le~ turnin~ leaves one co lined warblil and tht a creel about~ path l de seer gravel traver! pond, again .. left, b1 two si1 small propriE lies thE AbolJ five he ofmon ten sli trees green 1 shade enclos1 acrosf monun of SUI histo11 Jonatl H• By: With weathe are SI There' ball, c sunbatl tivities own w comb in encom) day ph which' ning a1 solid c nature! The.1 thesurJ This m prepar1 picnic best, b need t(] cookin slices • olives, bread, dry wt Thebe: is obb chard North, own co an An andca the OVE Orcha: collecti includi basket enougl for twE for om Picn careful the ser

L- CIJ c c b 0 b .c a. OONOOBDIENBI81 April 30, 1981 features Part One:: Vale Cemet~ry By DAVE KAPLAN All right, it's time for a little historical trivla about Union. Don't run away yet: i know this isn't a requited .cow:se,. but you might be quizzed on it next winter. You, in the back: where's Union's cemetery plot located? I thought not. We'll start from there. The entrance to Vale Cemetery is marked by a tall green fence with a double gate, on N ott Terrace, across from Stewart's and bordered by the Koala Inn and Pizza Hut. A partly paved, parUy dirt (partly shattered glass) path begins and lead~ into the woods, soon turning entirely to dirt. Fallen leaves cover part of the path as one continues along the tree- lined trail, listening to the warbling of the nUIIlerous birds and the gently rushing water of a creek under a bril;lge. Mter about a quarter of a mile, the path forks. To the left, it descends, continues over a gravel and earth bridge which traverses a narrow part of a pond, and begins to ascend again. Halfway up the hill·on the left, between pillars on which two signs- quietly announce in small bronze letters the proprietors-''Unton College\- lies the College's .cemetery plot. overl.,okihg the large green pond .of Vale Cemetery. An occasional bottle or shopping cart adcrllS its muddy shores, and the stench of ·stagnant water ,pervades the air. The only m()vement is under the bridge, \Where the pond, .clogged by pieces, of rock and: .cement, oozes fl-orn ·one side of the trail to the other. The songs of birds are j()illed by: the distant whine of a cllainsaw or the sq:u.awk of a car'·s h()rn on Nott Terrace; the isolation is visual, not aural. Ml).st of the headstones are ' ordinar-y stone markers, lacking the sly, grinning angles and othe.r characters that embellish headstones in the seventeellth and eighteenth century gra-veyards in and around 'Boston, for example. Nevel'tBeless, there are some rather interesting monuments. A co11ple nearly defy descrip- tion, looking like oblong stone coffins suspended over the ground. Dr.Nott's headstone is in tlle <!enter of the plot, an unspectacular piece of stone with 1lis name and some Greek letters carved on it. One is the grave of -Amalia Schoppe, a friend of Dr. Eliphalet Nott's third wife, Urania, and, according to the register compiled on the residents of the plots, ''the most prolific German author of her day.'' There is a great deal to be said about some of the people entombed in Uni~Ii's cemetery plot. Their stories will be related in the .second part of this series. OA'.s Continued from i;tage 1 These professors- work with the student O.A.'s to provide a realistic picture of life at Union, and to create an awareness of the intellectual atmosphere and student services at Union. The conunittee also plans the schedule .of events for the 4-day Orientation program this term and gives tours to prospective transfel:\ stuqents in the fall they come back about two weeks early to take care of the final arrangements before the O.A.'s arrive and finally, the new . students. The committee stresses also tbat they are working hard to provide a positive experiellce for not only incoming students, but for all - those directly and indirectly involved with the 1981 Orien- tation. · Union's plot Page 5 About one hundred seventy- five headstones _and other types of monuments stand in eight or ten slightly uneven rows. Fir trees lean into the isolated green plateau, lending a serene shade and a curious sense of enclosure to the visitor. A walk across the plot, past the momunents marking the graves of such figures in Union's history as Eliphalet Nott and Jonathan Pearson, ends Evergreen bilshes are spread about the plot, interspersed with the monuments. On the far side of the area resumes the hill, ancl in the woods just on the edge alld at the foQt of the hill, ensconsed in the leaves, lie about three dozen beer cans. A few bottles ·an.d their caps are strewn around and over some graves, and graffiti have been · spray~paillted on either side 9f a pillar-. ·Be _Re-novated . Back e>utside and across to the left from tbe Union plot are six other-rne>numents, four standing and two embedded in the ground; which are related to the Colle~e- A few are of students whodied wbile attending Union. Hedonistic -sport By FEATURE WRITER With the advent of warmer weather, more and more people are spending time outside. There are frisbee games, soft- - ball, croquet, and just plain sunbatbing. All of these ac- tivities are satisfying in their own way, yet they could be combined as .part of a more encompas.$ing activity: the all day picnic .. Picnics are affairs which begin. in the ear!;y mor- ning and continue till dusk, a solid day of activities of all natures. · The major focus (at least on the surface) of a picnic is to eat. This means that food must be prepared and transported to the picnic area. Cold food is the best, because it eliminates the need to bother with-charcoal or cooking implements. Some slices of cold chicken, pickles, olives, fresh fruit, some fresh bread, and the classic bottle of dry white wine will do- nicely. The best fresh bread for a picnic is obtainable at FoCastle Or~ chard located on Route 50 North, an orchard which has its own country .store. This bread is an American country bread, and can be purchased bot from the oven. Incidentally, FoCastle Orchard also has a large ~ollection of baskets for sale, mcluding the classical picnic basket. This basket is big enough to carry food and drink for twenty, yet is small enough for one person to carry. Picnicing is a sport, a .sport of careful and casual seduction of the senses. It is one of the few sports where a man can walk into tlu woods carrying a blanket on one arm and a blond on tile other without raising eyebrows. Natur-ally it is important to pick just tbe right spot for your picnic. \The scene should most impol'tantly be private. One does nd want the neighbor children to be carefully wat- ching tbrDugh the bushes, nor does o11.e want to attract the farmer\s Thereshould be some trees for shade, a meadow for stlilt and a small stream for wading aild; if the day is par- ticularly warm, for swimming _and skinlly·dipping~ depending on one's frame of mind. Pienicing is a sport unto it- self. It is· the totally hedonistic sport. The careful, if knowingly casual, draping of ai). arm, a bare leg, or the stroking of a twig of hay can delight the senses to a frenzy. There is something particularly sensual about tlle way_ that the juice from a fresh strawberry drips from .()ne,s mouth. The. very blending of the sun and the heat of thE earth cambine to make this s!)ort the sport of the sybaritic• I c~uld go on to describe the vari()US activities in which one can ilt().Ulge ·whilst upon a picni<:;. however, I feel that this migllt per-baps ruin the .spon- taneity (){action, so I shall close with nCJthing more than the casual hints which I have given above. Spring was meant to be a time for release of the winter's inhibitions and thick blood. A picni(! can accomplish both at once. &njoy. By GINA PERSICO On Jun~ 15, finals will be over and students will have packed their bags for summer. Yet, no sooner will the last students have left their rooms when the dorms will re-open for a $665,000 renovation. . According to Residence Life Director Dave Wood, major renovations will primarily involve painting, carpeting, and reconstruction in West as well as the removal of asbestos in the ceilings of Fox and Davidson. . The asbestos removal, which will take an estimated two months to complete, is the most costly of all .renovations at $550\ According to Dave Wood, although the sealing method costs $1~,000 less, the school, with the help of a hired team of experts, decided complete scraping of the sub- stance off the walls is the most reliable way of removing the haZ;ard. The experts, En- vironmental One, discovered that the sealing or- incapsulation process involves unknown chemicals and co1lld have risky bonding ef1fects.' \At least with the scraping,\ Wood says ''we are assured that the asbestos is gone for good.\ In explaining why the asbestos problem is being dealt with now and not years ago, Wood says that it was not until 1975 that the Federal governing body OSHA made nationally known their suspicions of the once considered \faddish vogue\ ceiling substance. Immediately follDwing the repDrt, all the ceilings at Union Ce>llege which contained asbestos were .tested. for allowable concentration. Tests were conducted again in 1978 and 1980. All results showed a 99 percent margin of safety and no signs of deterioration. Wood says this apparently li)W concentration of asbestos coupled with the fact that OSHA was discouraging people from taking immediate, coatly ac- tl~ns on a substance not thoroughly·- unqerstood, were tb.e reasons Union did not take immediate action. \The college didn't have the resources to tap all the fly by night solutions,\ Wood remarks. Since 1980, the dangers of asbestos have been firmly established and Wood says 1Jnion is willing to go through the \costly but wise removal.\ The process is also being C()nsidered for next summer to tackle the as-bestos-coated cEilings in the residence bllildings along Lenox Road. Also included in Union's top to oottom renovations of Fox and Davidson is the installation of ttEw furniture in at least 30 suites and new carpeting in 10 suites. 'The estimated cost of these additions is $115,000. According to Wood, the biggest and most obvious construction and interior renovations will take place in West. Built 29 years ago, this residence hall the Director says is the \oldest and most deteriorated of any dorms on campus.\ $35~000 will be spent to paint all 00 rooms, replace all the carpets and convert the lounges int~ four single rooms. Four double rooms will be converted into new lounges. An additional $20,000 will be used- t6 paint the hallways and entrances in Webster House, South~ and Richmond. North, which was completely renovated in 1971, is the dorm in the best condition Wood says and will most likely not be worked on this summer. All of these dorm im- provements, the Residence Director explains, are based on the notic:m that '\If a student comes to Union, he should have a nice .place to live.\ Union at this point, ranks in the lower third among U.S. colleges in tenns of Residence facilities. Perhaps this swnmer as the three year phase of renovations begins, thi,s r~nkage will im- pr-ove arid Union College will indeed be a 'better place to live.'

P&:ge 6 OONCORDIENBIB~ ApriJ 80; 19~1 s & Culture· Cabaret Goes Ape \ . vnt()D C()J~Lege ,)'llllf'·vlt,c()Jil!ll\11'ee ByDEMETRAPONTmAKOS Last week's cabaret cen- vinced me once again that, yes indeed, you can train wild animals, put them up on stage and call it entertainment ... good entertainment. Fourth floor west • alias the ZOO CREW - went absolute bananas Thur- sday night with . an outrageous presentation of \Fraternity 'Feud,\ a parody ·Of the ever-so popular television game show. \FAMILY FEUD~\ The two opposing teams consisted of representatives from ZBT, Sigma Phi, DU!t Fiji, Psi U, SDT, A D Phi, Chi Psi, and Richmond - all dressed in and acting like the most perfect of stereotypes that you can imagine. Yes, Psi U was .preppy '(those pants! My God, those pants were bllndblg!), and yes, Richmond was represented .by RA.. Danny Cuzzo, uh - I mean Sister Danny Cuzzo . . . , for example. damper on an over-all en,. joyable ~veni,ng, however. In any event, I would especially commend the script writers, and RA Danny Cuzzo who seems to be doing what RA's should be doing·invOilving his floor in a community effort. They looked like such a big, happy family up there on· stage last Thursday night, and that made me feel good. Bravo Danny! Bravo Zoo Crew! (and thankayou for sharing your little idiosyncracies with us - the addiction to pizza - (every night? Really?) the 16 ~ereos, the 48' blow driers . . . ) I would like to see more of this kind of theatre at Union - kids writing original scripts and then having a lot of fun rehearsing and performing. them. Don't forget that now that the Mountebanks are back: on their feet, they will be looking for this kind of talent t · Cabaret is one of Union's Thursday nightspots, provid.iitg weekly nightclub en· tertainment. It is a student . operated organization: students provide all the ingenuity and manpower for management, kitchen, and technical crews. The show consists of two acts and a master of ceremonies providing students, alumni; faculty and administration with the opportunity to share their talents with the rest of the Union, community.. · As part of this year's Parent's Weekend, there will be a special Cabaret on Friday night, May 1st with shows at 9 and 11 p.m.· Dan Lacoff will be the MC for the show and a 'jazz group :~mprised of Vice President )).!4-f!.drea, Prof. Tidmarch, Prot Rosen,. Irwin Mencken, and John Sciortlntt w:ill present the first act. The second act will feature Tofn Farrell, Demetra Pontisakos, and Carman Martinez who, accompanied by alumnus Tom Howes on the piano, will sparkle the night away with their . collection of Broadway tunes. This should be an event enjoyed by all parents, friends, and students who will attend. il pt~~n•,s fFreneh cXew Wave Ffl,m Series Le Samourai Ida~ 7 at 7: JO P.M. l.,o c:;aerre est fFinie· Ma~I8 at 7:3oP.M. Umllrellas of CJaerllourg Ma:t3% at 7:30P.M. All shown in SS 016 FREE ADMISSION While the script, written by Nancy Dubouw and Renee Haber - the MC of the evening ,. dealt mainly, of course, with the stereotypes and cliches that we've heard over and over again about fraternities at Union, it presented them in a refreshing manner which everyone seemed to enjoy to the point of audience participation. For example, when ZBT (Susan Katz) - who had been using the \typical\ Jewish Mother voice- was asked to name a noisy appliance, someone in the audience enthusiastically of- fered, ''Your Mouth'' (chalk; one up!). The answer ZBT gave, of course, was, \It must be ·It has to be- My electric menorah.\ (''Good Answer! Good Answer!\ supported her teammates). Later, DU (Lori Fauat), ventured in With \YA MOTHA\ which, we were in.: formed was \not on the board,\ whereupon Lori, in an im- pressive display of ad lib demanded, \Get it on the board!\ (Yikes). The second act of the show was ''The Martin Brothers Band\ with Jim ..,Masterson on 12-string guitar, Greg Meyers on Banjo,~ Kathy Tierney on fiddle, Rudi Happle on ,man- dolin, Dave Haviland on guitar, and Bob Beard on bass guitar. After fourth floor west, the audience was all reved up for some good Southern Rock. The highlights of the Martin. Brother's performance were \Amy\ with impressive vocals by Haviland, and the theme song from \The Beverly Hillbillies\ which brought back childhood memories and had everyone clappin' and stompin' Coffeehouse This Weekend Another favorite moment for me was Naming America's favorite pasttime: \spending daddy's trillions\ was the reply from SDT, \Hillel Meetings\ insisted ZBT, \Rape and Pillage\ conquered DU. These were just a few of the crazy things that came out of the ZOO CREW Thursday night, not to mention what came out of the mouth of the man who represented President Morris. I don't know how to say this tactfully - maybe I should just say that a lot of people were offended by some of the dialogae, not enough to put a · Most of the other numbers, however, were a bit of a disappointment mainly because the tempo seemed to be dragging to a distracting degree. The group's rendition of \Wildwood Flower\ was weak, mostly because the vocalist, Kathy Tierney had poor diction and was singing too far above her natural range. Also disappointing was the fact that Tierney's . fine fiddling was drowned out by the other in· struments most of the night. We finally heard her skill come through in \Devil's Dream,\ one of the last numbers. Wben I -heard the fiddle and realized what I had been missing all night~ I felt a little cheated. Overall, however, between these hillbillies, and those animals from west, Thursday night's cabaret was one of the most exciting, unique and en· tertaining cabarets I've been to. We need more fresh ideas like these for future cabarets! With their songs, their style, their eclecticism, as well as their vocal and instrumental versatility, DON ARMSTRONG & VICTORIA GARVEY, songwriter-performers lately of The West, have been roundly applauded coast to coast in cabarets, concert halls and on college campuses. Willie Nelson has praised them. Mikhail Baryshnikov has jitterbugged to their music. Combined with their own songs, several of which have achieved national acclaim, DON & VICTORIA offer a variety of Show tunes from the 20's and 30's, a few obscure western selections, and several ditties from goodness knows where. The result is a .per- formance that brings down the house wherever they perform. DON plays guitar, banjo and bass, and his sgngwriting styles range from folk to jive. His songs have been praised acr-oss the country by critic and musician alike. Bill Staines, a popUlar folksinger from the Boston area, has recorded one of DON's songs, . \White Mountains Good Bye,\ on his first album for Folk-Legacy. Support The Idol because the editors have been among the very few who have submitted pieces. The editors of the spring issue of Idol are asking anyone who is interested in submitting something not to hesitate. The worst thing that can happen is that the piece will be rejected. The best thing that can happen is (obviously) that the piece will be published. The spring issue has received so little work at thiS point, it might as well become non-existent. Don't let the Idol die. The deadline has been extended to May 8th. Submit poetry to Box 974, fiction to Box 902 and all art work to the art department office. The Idol is Union's art and literary magazine. Editors of the Idol try to encompass all forms of the. arts in this unique publication; student works are taken from both the literary and visual arts. In each issue ap- pear short stories, poems, photographs and drawings. Some issues are more selective than others, and these might print,. for instance, only poetry and photography. Other issues run the gamut, and are looking for various submissions. The IdoPs main purpose is to serve as a tangible creative outlet for the Union 'campus. However, in conjunction with the English department, the Idol also sponsors many fine speakers and poetry readings. Among the speakers this year have been Seamus Heaney, poet; Sydney Lea, poet and editor of The New England Review, and most recently, Tillie Olsen, poet short novelist, and critic. Four to five speakers each year are brought in and the entire campus is invited to hear them speak. Despite rumors to the con- trary, The Idol does not attempt to be an elitist publication, dominated by work from the editors and staff. Often it may appear as such, but this is only VICTORIA plays piano and has one of the most beautiful voices you will ever hear. Her songs have been performed and recorded by such notables as . John Denver, Judy ColUns, Ian & Sylvia, The Kingston Tdo, The New Christy Minstrels, The Irish Rovers, and Steve Goodman, t<J name a few. \A wonderfully exciting and captivating duo ... Performing a moving collec,tion of original songs and show tunes, they bring color~ life, warmth and hwnor to their stage!\ OswegoPalla!lium·Times Don & Victoria will be per· forming Saturday, 'May 2, at 8:00 p.m. iii the Cabaret Room in Carnegie Hall. Pre-sale tickets are available in the Student Activities Office all this week. Any remaining tickets will be on sale at the door. All tickets are one dollar. Refresh· ments will be available at the show: international coffees. hot tea; lemonade, and fresh West College donuts. For any questions, please call Tammy or Diane at 382-9303. ART AT UNION FACULTY EXHIBITION MAY 1 Thru JUNE 14 SEE DISP(AY ON PAGE 12!!!! TEST PREPUATION SPECIALisTS SINCE 1938 Albany Center 163 Delaware Ave. Delmpr, N.Y. 12054 439-8146 For lnformatton ·About Other Centers In More Than 85 MaJOr US Cit1es & Abroad Outside NY State CALL TOLL F11EE: 800·223·J 782 Last Memm colore< Methe musici in thee -awes Open soon Q' soulsw (after music1 This 1 music perfect As a audien arran~ heard< for inti Pat· where create sounds. ·his tal consist1 whose phasizE o~ Thel is ple perforr 2,1981, Chape which 1 Union moder dance invite 3 ... AI ah inj Fe

Page 7 ~rts & . Culture Spellbound By Metheny ~, ByOONNACREELEY Last Tuesday evening in · Memoria! Cl:Iapel, the bright colored lights were on the Pat Metheny Group, the jazz musicians. whose perfoi\mance in the eyes of this reviewer was - - awesome! ' , Opening loud and rowdy, they soon quieted any discomforted souls who were afraid of \'jazz, •' (after all, that is the kind of . music that my father enjoys!). This was really first-class music unmasked by any im- perfections of the. human voice. As a matter of r fact, the audience heard four such arrangements before they heard ~Y voice and then it was for introductions. Pat · Metheny really knows where to put those fin~ers to create a variety of top quality sounds. But, he wasn't alone in ·his talent. The entire group consisted of first-rate musicians whose a·bilities were em- phasized.in the numerous solos. These were not just your nm-of- mill solos either, they were improvizations at its best. There were solos from the synthesizer, keyboards, string bass, electric bass, drums, bongos, anf:l zither as well as the gwlar. The most unique solos, however, were-from therhytluh section who played such Suriosities as an aluminum sheet and a saw, and boy did they make beautiful music! Exceptionally well clone were the transitions between solos. If you let your mind drift with the music (which most people did) you might not even notice when different instruments were being recognized. Not an of the tunes exem· plified their speed, there were a few slownumberstoo. But even these were of ex.cellent quality and stressed the group's coor- dinatiQn .and tone. The audience, witb the ex- .ception · of one couple who favored dancing to the last few Dance Club Perfor,mance • The Union College dance club is pleased to announce its performance on Saturday; May 2, 1981, at 3:30p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The performance, which will feature our very own Union dancers will include modern· dimce, ballet, and dance studies. We cordially invite you all to attend and urge you to bring friends and family. It, promises to .be an exciting performance, which will be followed by a reception in Conference Room A (third floor Carnegie). We look fol'ward to seeing you all and re- . establishing the fact that dance does exist at Union College. QUICK FIX Appearing at t~e Dutch Hollow Pub on Sat •1 May 2nd ' ' Starting 10:00 p.m. · Come On Down & Bring Ypur P~rentsl · Are You Interested in a Political Internship for Next Year? Come to an Internship Panel Thursday, April 30, 4:30 p.m. .Strauss lounge Internships to Be Discussed: --Albany Government .. --Washington DC Term with Union --Summer Internships (Washington)' --Public Interest Internships (Washiqston) ·\' All are welcome! Refreshments served. Be ahead of the game and find out how to get the internship you want. Sponsored by Politica.l Forum . ~ nwnbers,, was spellbound for the duration of the dozen or so songs .. This may have been due to their awe at the talent which was recognizable to even the untr~ined ear, or to the various tllus~ons - created (i.e., helicClpter, explosion, blast off) whi~h. reaUy allowed the audiEnce to experience the musk mentally as well as physically. OveraH, the only disap- pointing moment came when the enthusiastic crowd stood in antic:ipation of an encore that they did, not think they were going to .receive. The applause ecboed long and loud in the Chapel, not only for these ex,. cellellt musicians, but also for the Concert Committee who provided us with the op- portunity to experience this trOlr- amazing performance. · Ticket Information: . D-:1 Friday Night: SOLD otJ1 . 5-~ Saturday Night: SOLDl ollabl:unday Matmee: N 0 ah' s N 0 tt 5-3' SWlday Night: Available·. Prices: $~;00 for Students, Faculty and Staff $3.00 for Parents and Non- stm:lents F()r Further Information: Contact The Nott Memorial Box Offi<!e: Tel. No. 370-6153, Hours: 1:01) p.m. ·6:00p.m. daily. Mountebanks is in full swing. The Nott Memorial Theatre has been hopping this week as this, the oldest college theatre group in America, prepares for four Parent's Weekend shows of Noah is a Righteous Man (And a Damn Good Carpenter, too) or Noah's Nott. With the exception of a few .songs, the entire production has been created by Union students. From the direction to the dancing, the singing to the script writing, the costume designs to the stage hands, this is from Union's finest: the students. There will be four· shows this weekend: Friday, Safurday and Sunday at 8:00p.m. and a Sunday matinee at 3:00p.m. ' SPAC Opens Season Tbe Saratoga Performing Arts Center today· announced 20 additional concerts on its , sWimler schedule of Special Evellts. Featuring some of the hottest acts 'in the music business, the SP&C season opens on June 22 . with JAMES TAYLOR and windS up with THE CHARLIE 'DANIElS BAND on September 4. HEading the list of dates in between are two evenings with LIZA MINNELLI, a night with WIL.LIE NELSON AND F .AMlL Y, .REO SPEED,. W.AGON, PAT BENATAR and HAI'iK WILLIAMS, JR., plus the return of EMMYLOU HARRIS and THE DOOBIE BR()THERS. F~llowing the James Taylor concert will be the JEF- FERSON STARSHIP (with bandmembers Craig Chaquico, Aynsley Dunbar, David Freiberg, Paul Kantner, Pete Sean, Grace Slick and Mickey Thomas) on June 24; and SAN-rANA headlining on June 27. 1he Center's first country showcase will feature E:MNYLOU HARRIS and JER:RY JEFF -WALKER on July 12; and the top draw at SPAC for the past two sum- mers, the DOOBIE BR()THERS, will be back on July 19. AARRY BELAFON'I'E will be at the Center on the evening of .July 27, followed by the Soutltern-edged ROSSING'fON- CO~LINS BAND on July 28 and H.A~ WILUAMS, JR., with ASLEEP AT THE WHEEL opelring the show, on July 29. Orle of upstl!te New York's favGrite·son bands, 'fHE MARSHALL TUCKER BAND, will ))lay one date at SPAC this swuner on August. 3. PAT BENATAR, rock's newest succ~ss story, will play her first Saraioga date on August 16; and one week later, LIZA MIN- NELI.J will headline two very special evenings of song and dance on August 23 and 24. On August 25, the polished ' rock of Australia's LITTLE RIVER BAND begins the final two weeks of SPAC's summer calendar, with a classic evening of jazz following on August 26 that features the talents of PETE FQUNTAIN, WOODY HERMAN and GERRY MULLIGAN. JOURNEY will be the headliner for the August 27 bill. . One of the hottest bands of the late 60's and early 70's is back together and on the road again. THREE DOG NIGHT (\Joy to the World,\ \Eli's Coming,\ \Mama Told Me Not to Corne'~) will be at SPAC on August 29. And the band currently on the top of tbe charts, REO SPEE DW AGON, from America's heartland, will make their first SPAC appearance on August 30. The original country-outlaw from Texas, WILLIE NELSON, and his strikingly smooth vocals and heart-hitting songs will find · their way to Saratoga on August 31. The first day of September brings THE BEACH BOYS back to SPAC, moving into their 2oth anniversary in the business. To date, the last concert of the season will t>e the perennial favorite, eTHE CHARLIE DANIELS BAND, with JUICE NEWTON (\Angel of the Morning\) opening the show on September 4. Clooney will not be appearing with Mitch Miller and The Philadelphians as previously annoWiced. Mr. Miller's guest for the August 15 performance will be announced at a later date. Special Events that were previously announced include: Judy Collins (June 26), Cleo Laine and James Galway (June 28), a Night of Bluegrass with Bill Monroe, Doc Watson and Mac Wiseman (June 29), Dinah Shore (iuly 26), Jean-Pierre Rampal, Claude Bolling ~d Alexandre Lagoya (August 2), the Preservation Hall Jazz Band (August 10), Chuck Mangione (August 11), the Sounds of the Sununer of '42 (August 17) and Gordon Lightfoot (August 18). At this time, tickets for all SP AC events are only available . through the mail. The new SPAC brochure, with ticket information and updated concert schedule, will be available in the beginning of May at the three Community Box Offices (Empire State Plaza, Colinie Center and the Proctor's Arcade in Schenec- tady) and at all area Ticketron outlets. The SPAC Box Office will open to the public on Mother's Day, May 10, at 11 a.m. The day will also feature a free concert by the Fabulous Jimmy Dorsey Orchestra, under the direction of Lee Castle, sponsored by Price Chopper Supermarkets. This year marks the lOth an- niversary of Price Chopper's sponsorship of a free Mother's Day concert, which will begin this year at 2 p.m. SP AC tickets will be available at Ticketron outlets beginning on May 11. For more infonnation about the summer · at the Saratoga Performing Arts Center, call 518-587-3330, or write to: SPAC, Saratoga Springs, NY 12866.

OONOOBDIENSIS, Aprll30, 1981 Editorials Letters ·Now More Than Ever' Government cannot be str01tger or m.ore tough· minded t:nan its people. It cannot be more inflexibly cGmmitted to the task than they. It cannot be wiser than the people.·-Adlai Stevenson, 1952. · - Along with frisbees, wild parties and warm weather, spring term at Union is also characterized by a very important event: e,zections. Already this week, many of us have been approached by fellow students asking for signatures on candidate petitions .. We must all be very careful concerning the issue of elections. During spring term, it is easy to let slide many of our extra-curricular responsibilities in favor of an e:dra hour of ''rays.\ Becoming apathetic at this time of year, as far as student government is concerned, is something that we must all guard against. Now is the time to ask many of the can- didates how _ _they feel about certain issues. Discuss topics that you feel are important tp you and others. If you do not understand the responsibilities of the position -that the candidate is running for, please ask. It is better to find out this information before you are called upon to~ make an intelUgent decision in the voting booth. CONOORDIEN\SIS plans to cover the campaigns and the election procedure as comprehensively as we can. Whtle we will not be making endorsements of individual candidates, we will atten]:pt to present the candidate's statements on topics that we feel are of particular importance to the Union community, as a whole. Because we plan on presenting extensive coverage of the election, some students may tend to look toward the · campus newspaper as the in- formation source on the students running for office. While we certainly hope that CONCORDTENSIS wi!! provide some insight that will help make election decisions more responsibly, the bulk of the gathering of information must be undertaken by the individual. CONOORDIENSIS will report in an unbiased manner, by simply reporting the facts. Using the journalistic style, we unfortunately cannot convey the less tangible qualities of determination and enthusiasn that are very important factors to consider when evaluating a candidate. The voter must do some work. The positions that will be filled in the upcoming election represent positions of great importance. The people that will be filling the positions must be responsible and be true representatives of the students that elect them. In the next couple of weeks, take the time to con· sider carefully the qualities of the candidates that are running for office. They Will set and administer studenf policy, examine how our student activity fees are spent and will \review recommend, or formulate policies\ relating to the student body. It is very im· portant that all of us make intelligent, informed decisions regarding the students that are to be our government representatives. Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor Associate Editor Business Editor· News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors • Sports Editors Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor C!n~•\'*\ Photo Editor PaUl Grossman, Rachel I. Mandel Julie Isgro Donna Creeley- Jeff .Scardino Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Dan Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richard~ Bill Cwtin, Jay McDermott Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner· Ellen Berger Lisa Snyder Staff _ Jack Connors, Steve Mayers, Rob Norton, ltoy Jackson, Dave Pace, Dan Rosenfield, Cindy Tenner Photo Staff Ch~ris Richards, Kent Avery, · A.J. D'Angelo, Cindy Tenner CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College,. Carnegie Hall, Schene~ad_r, New York 12308· Publications Office: Susquehanna Pubhcabons, Inc., 11 OivislonStreet, Sidney, New York 1~, .(607) 563-7151. Ente~e~ in the Schenectady Post Office as thll'd class matter. SubsCFJ.ptlon rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. ·Conc~trdieosis subscribes to tbe College Pr~ss. S~rvice (CPS). organization.s' budgets. To pursue tnis camse ®d then give permission to Concordieasis to receive pizza in exchange fnr advertising revenuet which w-ould othelrwise be returned to 1.. Q) c: c: ~ >.. \0 c: iJ >- .Q 0 .... 0 -a - g: 84 bl li: al tc h a1 OJ U: p; te tt \ 'S w rr. w oj st h; Y• b; w iil tt tll Y• ... -ill;

P_age 8 OONCORDIENSIS, April 30, 1981 Editorials Letters Now More Than Ever Government cannot be stronger or more tough· minded than its people. It cannot be more inflexibly committed to the task than they. It cannot be wiser than the people. ··Adlai Steve~on, 1952. · Along with frisbees, wild parties and warm weather, spring term at Union is also characterized by a very important event: electio~. Already this week, many of us have been approached by fellow students asking fo:r signatures on candidate petitions. We must all be very careful concerning the issue of elections. During spring term, it is easy to let slide many of our extra-curricular responsibilities in favor of an extra hour of ''rays.'' Becoming apathetic at this time of year, as far as student government is concerned, is something that we must all guard against. Now is the time to ask many of the can· didates how_ they feel about certain issues. Discuss topics that you feel are important to you and others. If you do not understand the responsibilities of the position that the candidate is running for, please ask. It is better to find out this information before you are called upon to make an intelligent decision in the voting booth. CONCORDIENSIS plans to cover the campaigns and the election procedure as comprehensively as we can. While we will not be making endorsements of individual candidates, we will attempt to present the candidate's statements on topics that we feel are of particular importance to the Union community, as a whole. Because we plan on presenting extensive coverage of the election, some students may tend to look toward the campus newspaper as the in· formation source on the students running for office. While we certainly hope that CONCORDIENSIS will provide some insight that will help make election decisions more responsibly, the bulk of the gathering of information must be undertaken by the individual. CONCORDIENSIS will report in an unbiased manner, by simply reporting the facts. Using the journalistic style, we unfortunately cannot convey the less tangible qualities of determination and enthusiasn that are very important factors to consider when evaluating a candidate. The voter must do some work. The positions that will be filled in the upcoming election represent positions of great importance. The people that will be filling the positions must be responsible and be true representatives of the students that elect them. In the next couple of weeks, take the time to con· sider carefully the qualities of the candidates that are running for office. They will set and administer student policy, examine how our student activity fees are spent and will ''review, recommend, or formulate policies\ relating to the student body. It is very im· portant that all of us make intelligent, informed decisions regarding the students that are to be our government representatives. Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor Associate Editor Business Editor· News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editor Paul Grossman, Rachel I. Mandel· Julie Isgro Donna Creeley Jeff Scardino Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Dan Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Bill Curtin, Jay McDennott Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner Ellen Berger Lisa Snyder Jack Connors, Steve Mayers, Rob Norton, Roy Jackson, Dave Pace, Dan Rosenfield, Cindy Tenner Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Subscriptions Cartoonist Staff Photo Staff Charis Richards, Kent Avery, A.J. D'Angelo, Cindy Tenner · CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schene~tad,r, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Pubhcatlons, Inc., ~1 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Ente~e~ m the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscrtptwn rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Concordiensis subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS). ·' . · .. ·srt:·~: ~·, ·ent· ·· R~~~\~~n·,;s : ... · ;, · To tbe Bditors1. ·· · co~ditors. mention as. ·having. The editorial .. Holier Than appeared at the Student Forum Thoua was written with a· meeting of April 13th, w;as not. looseness of language and bo~ht -by tpe Student F:orum distortion of events W•hich for I.ts meetin.· g •.. l'b .. · e. be .. verages greatly disturbed me. I raised a and pretzels were purchased by nmnber <Of these points with theSeniorOlassGift Committee . Concordiensis CQ>-editor Rachel (SCGC) from. the , Student Mandel during a near..t:wo hour Aetivity.s · .:Fund lor ··,its discussion I had with her. A ,·organizational meeting open. to point-by~point review of the all students and advertised as · criticisms I related to her, in such. · If we had been able to referenee. to the deceptions she return what had been left over and Paul Grossman (Con- from the-SCGCmeeting, then it eordiensis' other co-editor) wiluld have been done. Since were bitterly thrusting on tht'l this upset the two co--editors sn student body fl'om their n1uch~ feel free to ask Mrs. editorial soapbox 1 wcmld be too Marra in Student Activities to long to enwnerate hel'e. Let me see the personal cheek l have say, however, that I would be given her tupay for the two six~ happy to enumerate here.- Let packs consUined by the Forum me say, however~ that I would: that night. This money will be be happy to discuss these points placed in the Student Activities with any members of the Fund. campus community who are , Fourth, the Orientation and interested. The Forum is nat Parent's Weekend Committees faultless, however we are are in rio way under the willing to explain our position jul'isdietion of the Student on any issue. Contrary to- the Forum and we provide these insinuation the co--editors made, committees with absolutely no the Student Forum is very in· · funding. These groups fall terested in defending the rights under the direction of various of students and student administrators and their organizations. But, because budgets; and it is from there Concordiensis conveniently that these cornntlttee people omitted facts surrounding the receive their fO()d and coffee. I \pizza issue\ I believe an ex- .promise. therefore, to refr$ planation .of some of these from malting a Hfederal case;; omitted facts is needed. out of an administrator spen- First, the decision by the ding his money this ~ay. Forum was of an \economic\ Here I will end my letter and nature and not a \moral\ one. apologize for its length. ln trying to keep the Student Hopefully, the students who run Activities Fee at the current for Student Forum offices this $100 per year figure, we have Spring will address the issue of had to cut frills from all fiscal budgeting and how organizations' budgets. To conservatively or liberally they pursue this course and then give want to spend students' money. permission to Concordiensis to The responsibility f()r these receive pizza in exchange for decisions lies with the student advertising revenue, which Forum, and nowhere else. We would otherwise be returned to havemadesomemistakes, but I the Student Activities Fund to have been pr()Ud of the open,. help fund a better investment, mindedness ·and fairness of my would be inconsistent. I ask all fellow Forum members this students~ do you want nearly year. Unfortunately,, the- $500 a year of your Student Coucordiensis co~editors let Activities Fund to pay for their anger get the best of their Conc~trdiensis\ or any other judgment, and provoked them groups;, food? The Forum to take some unfair knocks at· agrees that it would be \nice\ our actions. to give pizza to every student Thank you for your attention. g~:.oupt but until it becomes a neeessityfor t]le papet\thm the muney ean be better. spent f&r .other· :.purelHJSes , . or .. · .. · fan. a de.er.e~se ..... in . ..the .. $tu4.(Jnt · Activities Fee~ · ;~;,.:,, .. ' ·--' A:njrlounced -; th~Suiltqra · ye~Jr, 11. rli*gul~r Witt,()()~. $6.00 . . . . . . .. . . ... hold~r .. to 'c~nmwne .• 'tw:o .. dQ?;efl dam~Sag.das mu:ehoftPe.Ptb~r fQoda.. and. drinli. . (Miller· .ur Millm\ . .Lite. aear:; or .. @ UQn .. ,alooooliepuncb)ast.he:v wish, A $3.00. Jlck:et will ~l!lo .. he avaU~blethis yel,l(~ but trus can only. be .. used to get unlimited quantities of hot dogs and the drink· nf, yt>ur choice. Everyone wishing to attend must have a ticket and tickets will be on sale starting tomorrow, Friday~May 1st, in front of Carnegie. There wnl be a limited number of $&.00 tiekets available .and enly tbe $3.00 tickets will be available the day of the Bake, so make sure you get· yours early. · Last year the Clambake w:as probably the biggest party of the-year with nearly 1200 people attending. All of you that went last year should start making p.lans to come again, and bring a friend. Remember, all proceeds go to charity and we've ordered a sunny day, so · all you'll have to worry about is what level sun SCI'€en you should be wearing. Thank you for your attention. See you at the Bake, Vern Wetmore Clambake Cha:irrnan, '81 Co~troversy Over Library Exhibit To the Editor: Surprisingly enough, there was a great deal of controversy surrounding an exhibit that the Jewish Student Organization- Hillel wished to put up in two of the Library's -showeases oomm.~orating Yom Hasboaht Hol()caust Rememberance Day. It was a cuntroversy that, in my mind;< should never have existed. The original reasons that Mrs:,.Jean P~Uetiere stated · CGuld not ad,rert:iSilu:.! revenoos nave been taken in. . Forum believes an •. Jtctiv~·f·· .. news.\'se.a:r<:ll.ing Fiinmt.f'rum using the snnwcases)j that sh.~ lost · To the Editors; sight o£< tha large picture of· ·· ·· having•/··· ··a··.\'· Wf.lllthwbile periodical is worth this price for the benefits it provides to campus 1 journalists and Con .. cordiensist ·readers. Tbe reason why the Forum limits the amount of advertising income ($7,500 a year) we expect Conc6rdiensis to return to the Student Activities Fund is to free the.staff from the pressures .····. $ i~p.tt;$ ·a•· .. ·Gur ho~ that ·ffl('l~e t~~ and more $p$.C(:) cuu1dtlwn be S,pent · covering eatnpus · news_ and spc.rts; then fewer College Press Service ·articles, fewer nrlsceUanoous creative writirtg · exercises; and: fewer ad~ vertisements . woUld have to fill CoJulotdiens.is' tw~lve pa.ges weekly. 'Therefore, the at- tairun~nt . of more ad- vertisement requests than . ortginalty expected is not ap- . ptauded automatically by the Forum. 'Fhe quality and> in~ ... ·· .. • · J>f Con\ Every spring for the past 12 educational exhibit in the years Sigma Chi has sponsored Library. a Clambake at the Girting l write this letter for two Center; Each year money is reasons~ FirstJ I wish to thanltl raised for charity and last year Vice-President D'Andrea for over $1500 was donated to such effQJ.1$,. in making sure worthy causes as Big Brothers.. elrhibit 'was shown. Second, I Big Sisters, The Schenectady wish to clarify why Hillel was so Boys Club, The American insistent oo having this ~bit Cancer Society, and The Ronald ayed. ·.· ¥=. ,l\Y:· ·sil:'' :tliat, ··~; isby r·, !nlri\ii.'C:!I Chi's .13th Annt1al Clam ... )ililleli·ItJs aday,thewol')ld and lle1·by bay will take. ac,~ aside to honar the millions at the Girllng .. Center . on Jews and rion~Je\vs wbo ........... ., 1 Saturday, May 16th, from 1:00 tortured and slaughtered by pmto 6:1)0 pm. A snuttlebus will · Nazi regime, as well as to ··h· ..... ,.ri; · .. ,\' 1 leave fr-om the Field Ho~ those brava individuals who starting at 12~30 pm and ooh*\ risked their lives tu shelter tinue transporting people back European Jews. The .{*.nd forth . £rom th~ ..... (dirling portance of dedicating a Cen~er n)ughly every half ijqur remember and to learn until& :30 pm that evening. The the Holocaust cannot be ride is free so we urge everyone . . phasi1:ed enough. The fact to take advantage ot the Bel'\- some ,group~ are now at.~t1wng vice. that.. the Holocaust The main ·change a li, at S< u bl p] re rc \I gJ a< bE lii j af to t~ at 0(: lif p&: te th \< 'S w: lTl w: of st he: yc be: wl in th ta yc \j yc I . 1.. Qj c:: c:: ClJ 1- >. '0 c:: 0 ~·..: :... -0 0 0 -C Q.

Welcome Many students ·find tbat they live two separate Uves: the one at school and the 911e at home. Some even retain the two ad- dresses, pe~haps not wanting to break those ties or retaining a place of '\permanence\ regardless of where they might roam. Along with a second \home\ may come a 4ifferent group of friends., different activities. ~nd diffe.rent ways of behaving, as opposed to their life here. Parents' Weekend affords students the opportunity to blend and to combine their two lifestyles in a most pleasant atmosphere. - parents are part of your daily life in every way. Attempt to meet your friend's .parents.A.t one time or another, many of us have been surprised and interested to hear about our friend's siblings. and home life. It seems that here at Union we only see people· in the context within which we met them, and on the basis af our day-to-day contact with them. It is hard to imagine your suitemate doing the family chores like taking out the garbage or dusting the furniture. Meeting the \folks\ mi,ght open up · an entirely different facet of your friend's life to you and allow you-to learn · more about them, in a new sense, rather than just in relation to the campus en- vironment. •? ~-~ I I Iii en ' t ' t ' ' President's Message Welcome to our campus. This weekend, it will be 'your campus. As you will note from . the program, there is a variety of events that will give you a wonderful insight into Union College. The Departmental Receptions, for example, show the academic part of the College; Prize Day shows the ceremonial recognition of student achievement; the athletic events, receptions, films, and concerts show the social and extracurricular side of Union. I hope that you enjoy this special opportunity to get to know the place where your son or daughter is living and to share some of their college experience. Patents' Weekend is a unique opportunity to integrate home 'life with college life. When parents arrive, don't only at- tend planned activities with them, but let them experience \college life.\ Take them to the 'Skellar or Pub to show them where you spend your time and money. Point ()ut the building where you study five hours out of the day~ Ten them amusing stories abOut things that have happened to you on campus as you pass by a place th~t )>rings back memories (but be careful which stories you relate). Most' importantly, int;roduce them to the friends. They would cer- tainly like meet the student that you stayed up with until 4 a.m., \just talking.\ Tell them about your daily life, after all your Concordiensis hopes that everyone takes advantage of Parents' Weekend, by not only experiencing the planned ac- tivities, but also the people who are enjoying them. Relation- ships, whether they are parent- child, or stud~nt-student, are essential, and Parents' Weekend is an excellent OP\' portunity to strengthen and broaden these relationships. There is a lot to be heard and seen, if you only take the time to explore. Have a great time, and en~oy the campus. President John S. Morris V .P. Greetings ·- The Edjtors I am grateful to the Con- cordieosis for the invitation to extend a welcome to Union parents who will be with us for the festivities this weekend. This will be my first Parents Weekend at Union and I look forward to it with eager an- ticipation. Union's raison d'etrfe is the academic program, of course, and I hope you will take every opportunity to learn as much about it as you can. There are two important events designed to acquaint you with the faculty, the curriculwn and our views on the central importance of a liberal arts education: The Departmental Receptions at 10:00 AM and the Seminar at 1:00 PM on Saturday. . This 1981 Parents' Weekend Committee has been working since Winter Terfn to plan a weekend designed to provide an opportunity for parents to par'ti.cipate in the Union of People. The pl.anning of activities was a job that entailed working with established campus organizations as well as coordinating eve,n'ts to produce a comprehensive schedule. The culmination of the e.fforts of this committee will involve the succ-essful implementation of the wide range of activities outlined in this issue of Concordiensis. The committee members, from left to right, are: back .row, Dan Cuozzo, Cary Moxham, Mike Andolina., Cheryl Dowtin, Katie ~ Schall, Lorraine Marra, Steven Cardamone, Huda Abdulatti. Front row, Ruth Ellen Lewis, Michelle DeSimone, Carol Hanretta, Sheila Walsh, Carol Ta I bot. In the short time I've been here,'I have come to understand a few things about Union that account for its unique success as an academic institution. We have a superb faculty, dedicated to teaching, scholarship and service·, whose commitm_ent to the develop- ment of their students is truly exceptional. Our students are among the best and they have a proper sense of the balance between disciplined engagement with their studies and joyous involvement in the social life of the College. That combination of acuity and students is an unbeatable one for producing a lively and ex- citing intellectual community. Union is certainly that. I hope your brief stay here is an enjoyable one and that I get to meet many of you. Vice President of Academic Affairs, Thomas J. D'Andrea Inside: • What to Do .. - Schedu· le of 441 'iili, '*\ . , '~·. ,. . ·.m:\'\· . ,<f.!liW E v \*'*i;gs· .,'\ • page C · Map .pageD · Food, Drink, etc. · . . . pages D-H ' .

CONCORD11!JN81B 1 April 30, 1981 Page 9 Every man has a right to utier what he ' thinks truth, and every other man has a right to knock him down .for it. Samuel 0. Johnson Letters Editorials Commentary: $40,000 For Four By DANIEL ROSENFIELD If you have $9,500 or so lying around and nothing to do with it, . you ·could _use it for a year's · education at Union. If you are already here and want to stay, all you need is another $9,500. For those of you who find $40,000 for college education (yes, you could buy a Porsche 928, but the mileage from the education would be better) somewhat difficult to come up with, there is financial aid. It is a good thing too, roughly 65 percent of the student body is on some form of financial aid. Financial .aid is given based on need as determined by a generalforrnula.Severalthings are taken into · consideration when putting together a financial aid package. ... First, the student's con- tribution to his education. How much can the student actually contribute to his education? This includes one's assets by summer earnings and special benefits, if they exist. Parental contributions are also a factor. Naturally, cost of living and liabilities for such things as taxes are taken into con- sideration as well as assets held (current and fixed). In addition, the evaluation from the College Scholarship Service is made use of. This is an analysis of the information that is provided to the service by the student on the Financial Aid Form (F AF). The financial aid office can adjust the report based on information they have on the student in question. In addition, many students who are granted aid will be given jobs aroUnd campus to help finance their education. There are currently six forms of aid available to the student at Union. The most common is, of course, the loan. Funds come from two sources, the National Direct Student Loan Program, at a cost of 3 percent interest per I DoN\'T KNOW J-\OW To BREAK THl~ To '(ou,~, l30NZ?· YOUR OLD~~~ FRlEND · RONNIE ~tj~:~ CANCELED YouR ~o~ §TuDENT LOAN ! ~EJN'aa·-_ 1\0GkV Ml\N. NE;,VI~ CPS year, payable after graduation, and the Union College loan program which charges 6 percent per year, also payable after graduation. · Another program available is TJte Basic Educational Opportunity Grant Program. This is a federal program that grants from $200 to $1,800 based on need. These funds are sent to the school. The Supplementary Educational Opportunity Grant is another federal grant program. This .proJ!:ram grants from $200 to $1,500. Unlike the' Basic Educational Opportunity Grant Program, this program grants funds directly to the student. Many states also have scholarship programs. Aid and requirements vary from state to state. As previously mentioned, there is a work .. study program in which students can earn an estimated $650 per year by working on campus for ap- proximately eight hours each week. This program is federally financed. In addition, the college runs a program of its own that provides jobs for students. College scholarships are also a source of aid at Union. These funds are available from en- dowments and donations by friends of Union College. The Financial Aid Depart- ment, headed by Robert Massa, has, in addition to the aforementioned programs, proposed the adoption of a new program for next year. This program will allow the students tuition to be prepaid on an in- stallment basis. This program, which will be available· to all students, is administered by the Academic Management Ser- vice. Mr. Massa feels that this will help to budget money for college expenses and will therefore be a worthwhile program.

i . . . i i ' OONOORDIENSIS, April30, 1981 Pa,ge 9 ~ Editorials Commentary: Graduate Weekend (M!!IY . ,, In·cl.osing Jld like to point ··'·we·· in.·· F~at4mi*le\' ··•·· , . . .· ·· a.· d()'~ o,u~· i)~$€ . ·.···•···• $40,000 For Four year, payable after graduation, and the Union College loan program which charges 6 percent per year, also payable after graduation. . . · Sincerely. · Richard A. Simons In-tramural Boxing A Hazard To the Editors: This letter is in reference to the detriments caused by in~ tramural boxing. Boxing is a very dangerous sport; its aims are directly in contrast to those of our academic institution. It has 'been sh<lwn that this sport causes serious brain damage which may result in severe mental incapabilities to it}s participants. Academia, on the other hand, strives to develop the mind) not to destroy it. The question naturally arises, then, as to how an academic institution such as Union can support this activity. Sincerely, Ivan Gjaja '83 Personally Not Funny :rJeb(1fe D . . . .· .. ··. ·.. . . <kJ!S,:.:.I. ·f· . . . neque·s ... u· . or. rru·stee thu~poiSittc:m needs .. ···and deterpu.n~tiont b11t . tllllSt also hiiive e~rienee ~ tackling the .·. colle~;s · .. pl'Qblems. · l feel I possess these qualities, and as a result I announce my candidacy for Juni<Jr Trustee. -However, I feel the student oody Sbt)Uld have a <:\Uince to question the candidates on various issues, as wen as hear th~r goals for the college for the nex.t two years. Con· sequently, I invite rny op- ponents (Peter Schlessel, Richard Mintz, Karen Schick, and any others) to a debate, to . which the whole student body is invited, to voice their respective reasons for running for the office of Junior Trustee and their qualifications for election. Furthermore, I have scheduled a room in the Social Science building (SS115) for Friday, May 8 at seven o'clock forthe debate. If this time is not satisfactory. for any of the candidates, I will be more than happy to resehedule the debate to meet their needs. I also invite any organization (Con- cordiensis, Hillel, ?-olitical Forum, BLAS, etc . . . ) to sponsor and monitor the debate. If the candidates for- Junior Trustee feel they are the best for the position. I invite them to prove it. I AWAIT A REPLY ...• Sincerely, Davi<l Wollin Class of 1983 Thefts from FIJI , past · · · · · · · · · ··. · ·· when· stplen property (such ·as Master Composites} have been \U'llt::~We b<,Pe. tbi~ Will.· bti. · ' ot tbe . rootmtly.. stol{)n . · itetna• It woui!':l:mean a lot to us if the pruperty. W()ll.ld be returned befd.re Parents Weekendw .. eva-n more hn- portantly, we'd appreciate having it back before O'Ur Tb the student bodyl I CHALLiNGE MY OP· PONENTS TO A DEBATE!! Th~ <>ffiee of Jnnior'trustee, Every man has a right to utter u,hat he thinks truth, and ever.r other man has a right to knock him down .for it. - Samuel 0. Johnson welcome an of tM students on campns, n,.r .parties ur ~ven for casual beers. Whether it be other Greek members or in- dependents' who are responsible· for this stealing, it's a tremendous abuse of social privileges to senselessly steal from Houses on campus. S-incerely, Seth Mendelowitz Senior Gift Decided. As the end of four, long years at Union fast approaches, we as seniors anticipate this end with mixed emotions. For better 'or worse, however, each of us must come away from our years at- Union somewhat changed by our experiences and enriched by memories which we will have for life. It seems that many of us share the feeling that it Is now olll' turn to do something for the school which has done so much for us, something for which the Class of ~81 can feel proud~ and something to help preserve the future of Union's tradition. The results of the survey were tabulated and by a wide majority, it was decided that the money collected in behalf of the Senior Gift this year will go towards preservation and upkeep of the Nott Memorial. Thank you, all who par- ticipated in helping us dUring the survey. More information about how you will be able to contribute towards this gift will be distributed in the near future. Until then, we would like to say thank you once again for showing ynur support. It looks as though, despite seniodtis, student interest at Union is NOTT dead. You will hear from us again soon. By DANIEL ROSENFIELD If you have $9,500 or so lying around and nothing to do with it, you could use it for a year's education at Union. If you are already here and want to stay, all you need is another $9,500. For those of you who find $40,000 for college education (yes, you could buy a Porsche 928, but the mileage from the education would be better) somewhat difficult to come up with, there is financial aid. It is a good thing too, roughly 65 percent of the student body is on some form of financial aid. Financial aid is given based on need as determined by a general formula. Several things are taken into consideration when putting together a financial aid package. • First, the student's con- tribution to his education. How much can the student actually contribute to his education? This includes one's assets by swmner earnings and special benefits, if they exist. Parental contributions are also a factor. Naturally, cost of living and liabilities for such things as taxes are taken into con- sideration as well as assets held (current and fixed). In addition, the evaluation from the College Scholarship Service is made use of. This is an analysis of the information that is provided to the service by the student on the Financial Aid Form (F AF). The financial aid office can adjust the report based on information they have on the student in question. In addition, many students who are granted aid will be given jobs around campus to help finance their education. There are currently six forms of aid available to the student at Union. The most common is, of course, the loan. Funds come from two sources, the National Direct Student Loan Program, at a cost of 3 percent interest per I DoN?T KNOW HOW To BREAK THI§ To '(ou,~. BONZ.O. YOUR OL.D ~~~ FR1END RONNIE ~~~\~ CANCELED YouR~ §TuDENT LOAN! ffEJN 'Sa_. RoG~Y MTN. ~ NEW£ CPS Another program available is The Basic Educational Opportunity Grant Program. This is a federal program that grants from $200 to $1,800 based on need. These funds are sent to the school. The Supplementary Educational Opportunity Grant is another federal grant program. This program grants from $200 to $1 ;;oo . Unlike the· Basic Educational Opportunity Grant Program, this program grants funds directly to the student. Many states also have scholarship programs. Aid and requirements vary from state to state. As previously mentioned, there is a work-study program in which students can earn an estimated $650 per year by working on campus for ap- proximately eight hours each week. This program is federally financed. In addition, the college runs a program of its own that provides jobs for students. College scholarships are also a source of aid at Union. These funds are available from en- dowments and donations by friends of Union College. The Financial Aid Depart- ment, headed by Robert Massa, has, in addition to the aforementioned programs, proposed the adoption of a new program for next year. This program will allow the students tuition to be prepaid on an in- stallment basis. This program, which will be available to all students, is administered by the Academic Management Ser- vice. Mr. Massa feels that this will help to budget money for college expenses and will therefore be a worthwhile program.

