dis ap- e Dut- the gerald Brad Kyle along minor dismal many this etitive was 17, in . to the home 198()-81 was ago, is player point -pound is an nut- career nts (40 . Last Ied 17 goal Finals at 7:30. trials 1,650 100 200 Meyer) and of and on its with a s N VI \0 ..... Ill' .J:: u Q! If! ·c fQ .J:: u >- .c 0 .... 0 .r::. a. ·•' \Union Views\ editor David Wollin Heft} and De,>ug Si'lver· steil;l listen to di~<;:ussion at Monday night's Student Forum . meeting. , Student Forum: Funds Magazine ByJlMDAVIS The Student Forum, at its Monday night · meeting, unanimously voted to allocate $800 to \Union Views,\ the twice-a-term campus news magazine. This money will pro-vide the financing the magazine .requires t,() publish during sprmg temJ.. between Concordiensis and . 'Union Views' are.\ · Saying that she thought there are ''legitimate .differences'' between the two publications, Cathy Johnson, the Forum's Vice President for Administration, · reported that she is trying to arrange a meeting of the two staffs' editors-in-chief ''to get the differences spelled out in their constitutions.\ KA in Davidson.: March 5, 1981 Volume 110, Number 17 • • Club ·oues,Assessed By A. J. BRODSKY With costs spiraling higher and higher, it was deemed necessary by the student government Finance Com- mittee -to consider cuts in in- dividual student activity budgets. · _ J.im Fisher, Vice President of Finance, pointed out that \we had a couple of alternatives concerning the budget.\Besides the 10 percent cut across the board already implemented, a $15 in.crease in the Student Activity . fee was proposed. However, as Fisher em• phasized, it was the belief of the Finance Committee, along with .others. in the student govern• ment, that this increase would add to the waste already in the system, and so it was rejected. Instead, what is being propose.d is that the $99 per person Student Activity Fee be kept at the present amount and additional budget cuts be made for so-called \special interest groups.\ The Committee separated all - the student activities into these categories: those that service the community, such as Circle K; those that service the campus, such as publications; and those that serve only those members in the group. This last category makes up the \special interest groups,\ for example the Scuba Club, the Electronic Music Club, W2UC the Photo Club, the Outing Club, and the Fencing Club. · Fisher explained that ''if these are viable organizations, they will continue.'' The bottom line forthese groups is that they will have-to create a system of dues to compensate for their cut in funds. If there is interest in - such a plan, then the organization will survive and flourish. If no members are willing to contribute dues, then the organization will fold. Many groups presently have dues to supplement their funds from the Student Activity Fund. In ef- fect, the Student Forum would \subsidize\ such \special in- terest groups\ in the future. As it now stands, these six groups ·take up approximately 10 percent of the present budget. and social), entertainment groups such as Cabaret and Coffeehouse, and the cheerleaders: Fisher said that these determinations \too\Kalot of thought.'' He added that his committee hopes all the mentioned groups will be able to continue. All groups have been asked to submit budgets, and the new total fiscal plan will be released the first week of spring term. Bob Brewster, secretary- treasurer for the Scuba Club, noted that his organization is already paying dues of $10 per year. This action was written into the Scuba Club's con- stitution at the suggestion of the Student Forum. The group consists of 40 members and its function is to provide diving opportunities to students. Planned for this spring is a weekend trip to Rhode Island late in May. In a separate decision, the Forum tabled a vote on whether to C()mbine \Union Views\ with Concordiensis in future academic years. This decision will be made at the first spring term ~orun:uneetirrg, March 30. Explaining why his publication was :f'equesting ad·ditional money, \Union Vie-ws'' editor David Wollin said that the .$3,-50Q the Forum had initially al1oca,ted to ·the magazine for 1980-81 had been subsequently re_duced by $850, leaving an insufticient amount. Opposes Mov~ng Groups for which present funding policies will continue include the publications and communications organizations, community and campus service organizations, Student Forum committ~es (such as concert Brewster says, \I don't think ·we are being singled out.'' He believes that it is a good idea to charge dues because they offer an alternate source of money for the club. But, Brewster quickly offered that his feelings may not be typical because his organization is a new club. \Because of the nature of the club, our situation may be unique,\ Brewster said. · As justj.fication for- the ad-: ditional funding, Wollin said that \Union Views\ covers ''br()ad, lo_ng-range issues that doD-'t have a place in Con- cordiensis. ,., D()ug.Silverstein, a junio_r who contributes to both p~blications, noted that the purpose of \Union Views\ is ''to provide a second p~rspective on campus events. \With Concordiensis, we get two different viewpoin~s on what's happening,\ he said~ Sophomore Halina Zyczynski, one of about 10 students at- tending the nteeting who was not associated witll either publication, said sh~ thought \it would be a pity if something new, like 'Union Views,' _were killed,\ because the efforts of its staff would go unrecognized. \They've tried to provide another outlook,\- she said. 41 1 don't think. it's right for the Forum to stifle it by not giving money.;, Were \Union Views\ to be published with Concordiensis, Wollin reported an annual savings of $180 could be realized, if present publication schedules were maintained. \But I think that savings. would be negligible, when compared with the contribution we've made the student com- munity/' he added. Forum President Dave O'Connor di~agreed, .saying that lle thought the potential . saving would be \great.\ Senior Representative Vern Wetmore concurred, noting that the Forum \is trying to finci...the best way to allocate money. Any amount .is important.\- Prior to determining the future of \Union Views\ as a separate entity, O'Conn()l' asked Forum members to decide ''what the basic differences ; . By BRIAN QUINT By the second week of Spring Term, according to Dean of Students, Robert H. Kellett, a decision will be made whether or not Kappa Alpha (.KA) fraternity will remain in Davidson dormitory for the 1981•82 school year. The potential move is opposed by KA, which has 10 brothers presently living in its section of Davidson. Dean Kellett said the issue at hand has to do with efficient use of housing. \There has-been a problem pf occupancy with KA, in the sense that a number of people who reside in there use smaller than the minimwn number Identified in their contract. As a result of that, the College has the right, as does the fraternity, on an armual basis to terminate that con- tract.\ The contract Kellett referred to is an agreement; signed by KA and the College, that allows KA's use of. a portion _of Davidson, provided a specified minimum live there. The Dean contends that \for three years in a row, that the three-term average has been less than the minimum.\ Stephen J. Crimi, who wa__s President of KA until fall term, says a move to \any place else would be unacceptable to us.\ While admitting the group controls a first floor lounge that can hold three times KA's numbers, Crimi emphasized the space is \definitely being used properly.\ He pointed out that other brothers, living elsewhere, use the facility and that many people benefit from KA's use of the lounge. Crimi also contends that there have been inconsistencies. in Dean Kellett's statements concerning the required minimum, statements ranging from 26 to 18 people needed to justify their remaining at Davidson. According to Dean Kellett, for the past three years, the housing situation has been evaluated, taking into account the h()using needs of other campus groups. As for the upcoming decision, Kellett emppasizes the final decision will be made - after meetin_g with the KA President, the Director of Residence Life, Dave Wood, and the Board of Trustees. Stephen Crimi feels that ' 4 decisions seem to be made behind our back.\ Kellett disagrees: \l don't know what basis they're arriving at that conclusion.\ · Is tight housing the only reason for the potential move? Stephen Crimi isn't sure. He pointed out that ''we've got a stigma,\ that he strongly believes is ~'absolutely untrue,\ that could have played a factor . in any move. He gave high . marks to KA, saying it is the only .place he has experienced that has \a strong sense of community.\ Jaime Forton, a Union graduate student, who is closely associated with KA, agrees. She feels that Kappa Alpha is the only fraternity on campus ''where women are treated as people. It may be different from the others in that it is changing with the times.\ Dean Kellett asserted that the question is strictly a numbers problem and that a fraternity ' 4 determines its o:wn direction\ and that the College steps in only \when certain things in- fringe on other people on campus.\ · The battle lines for Davidson- Sout~ may have already be.en drawn. Dean Kellett: ''It seems very unlikely, that given the c._urrent membership, and the small number of pledges, that they (KA) have at this point, that we'll be able to justify the continuation of the existing space. We're pretty close to a decision.'; · If Dean Kellett approves a move, said Stephen Crimi, \there will be a fight.\ Steinmetz Honors Program: How It Works EDITOR'S NOTE, When Concordiensls approached Prof. Byron Nichols about an in- terview concerning the Stein- metz Honors Curriculwn here, he suggested an alternative format. He proposed that he be allowed to use reconstructed logic and generate an interview that is both real and fictitious. Specifically, he suggested that he · would contribute an in- terview composed of acutal questions put to him by a variety of students (and faculty) over the past two years - including the relevant tone and nuance; only the ~~now\ and_ semblance of being one single interview are fictitious. At Concordiensis' urging, Prof. Nichols included primarily those questions which have been the most probing, · negative, or hostile; he agreed to this because he is aware that 'these questions draw the issues most sharply. He is concerned, however, that this \interview'' might also lead readers to infer ihat the questions represent typical student or faculty reaction. He emphasized that he has been very pleased with the general support and enthusiasm which students, faculty, ant: administrators have shown for the Steinmetz Curriculum. Prof. Nichols is currently the Director of the Steinmetz . Curriculum and is a member of the Political Science Depart- ment. It is obvious that he probably had some fun in constructing this interview. We hope that our readers will enjoy it in the same jocular manner. This article is the second in a series about the Steinmetz program. Q: So you're going to pander again to a few snobs and run two more seminars this spring as part of the Steinmetz Honors Curriculmn at Union. What in hell do you hope to accomplish? A: I always love responding to value-free questions. What is it that you find so objectionable about these seminars and the program in general? Q: I don't think that any special group of students should have any special advantages. A: You mean like varsity athletes, drama enthusiasts, or fraternity members? Look, one of the strengths of Union College is that it provides a wide range of opportunities for students with a wide range of interests and abilities. I happen to be quite pleased with the College's recent decision to renovate the main athletic fields and the Arts Building. I also happen to be pleased with the fact that Union provides money and programs for Terms Abroad, the Glee Club, and intramural athletics. Q: So what does this have tc do with the Steinmetz Curriculum? Don't tell me that you think that .a few kidH with high GPA's are the same thing as the basketball team. A: Well, one assumption you just made is blatantly false; another is hightly questionable. The false assumption is that the Stein- metz Curriculum is only for students with high grades. That's simply not true. While students who have taken Steinmetz courses so far have included several students with excellent academic records, Continued on page 5

Page 2 Editorials: Our Views The controversy over \Union Views\ has grown since the creation of the news magazine last year. At the beginning of this year., there was a question as to whether there would be enough funding to enable them to continue through this year. The possible merging of ''Union Views'' and Concordiensis was raised as a possible solution to the problem. On Monday night,. the Student Forum voted to fund \Union Views\ for next term, while keeping it a completely s,eparate publication from Con· cordiensis. A decision as to what will happen next year was tabled until the beginning of next term. First of all, we would\ like to make it clear that Concordiensis is not pushing for a merger of the two papers. We are not trying or even hoping to swallow up \Union Views\ or to take their operation away from them. We do not contest the fact that they are a viable publication. If \Union Views\ is willing or forced to merg.e with us for monetary reasons, then we are willing to work for the benefit of both papers. However, if they are going to view the merger as an act of aggression, then we believe the situation would be better handled in some other way, if possible. As an organization in our own right, we .resent being dragged into a controversy that, to a great extent, has nothing to do With us. The present EditoriaLBoard and staff of Concordiensis has never had any animosity towards \Union Views.\ What may have happened in the past should remain in the past. There is no reason that we should be con- tinually forced to defend ourselves from their at- tacks. They seem to believe that to prove they are a viable organization, they must attack Concordiensis. A far more reasonable method of proving their own viability would be to concentrate on their own contributions to the campus. Instead, they seem to strike out vindictively, while taking an unrealistic view of the purpose of Concordiensis. The majority of their points are emotional outcries that tend to confuse the issue. Through the years, Concordiensis has proven its own responsibility and made its place on this campus. No one is trying to prevent \Union Views\ from doing the same thing. Playoffs Netted The men's varsity basketball team's efforts this winter haven't gone unnoticed. The squad has been invited to this weekend's ECAC Division III playoffs at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y. (See story, page 12 We'd like to add our congratulations. A post- season bid is always an honor--not only to the team that receives it, but to the College as a whole. And there's no question about the hoopers' being worthy of this laurel. Though their 13-11 regular season log was identical to last season's, this year's record included a 12-6 showing against Division III opposition--schools with athletic programs similar to Union's. A few more Division III wins this weekend would be a very nice way to end up the schedule. Whatever the outcome; though, thanks are in order to Coach Bill Scanlon and the members of this year's team for an exciting and successfUl showmg. Fin a Is Corrections Tuesday, March 17-9:00-11:00 a.m. CLASSICS 40-Democracy and Federalism in the Ancient World-Reece-HU 014 SOCIOLOGY tO-Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 1-Weiner-· CH 205 C.E. 130-Structures-Doeing-BH 104 Friday, March 20- 9:00-U:OOa.m. MATHEMATICS 12-Calculus II, Sec. 8-Pappas-BH 201 Friday, March 20-2:00-4:00 p.m. SPANISH 11-Baslc Spanish 11--Ginsberg-HU 110 OONOORDIENSISJ M(J:rch 5J 1981 . .. Cam.pus Mood Blasted \18Y never'eon\ea when weask long ago.) ourselves the questiC>.n, why did This letter is not offered in a we come to Union College? If we negaijve spirit. It is offered answer that we came for an under the presumption t~t tbe To the Editors: education, who could believe first step · in building up. is that as we pay so much money, tearing <town~ that the fall our professors, afte:f'. a d~b precedes the rise,. enabling it to Progress. ·A difficult wor,d to years of teaching, counseling, climb higher. It is offered with understand; it impltes lecturing, publishing, and. . respeet,..with a deep admiratiOn. something which is so bard to giving academic advice, earn and appreciation for our s,clJool. define, yet, we all assume we Jess than $2ii000 a year. What But it m berne by dissatisfac .. know what it means. r are our priQritieE;'? Who is this tion. ~t m~s w.~ess a deep Union College has had its own school for?·, .. ·ls. it; . for . the. · eo.neem f~r- the' way w<t run nttr special brand of progress. Over Admini~tratimlt .. tb,~.Atbl~.ie.. (#olle,ge •. ~~. th\ Pt:04-'~~ the past year the changes have Department, the . ~~-. of s1;•t, . ~ sen\\ brocmuo- •. been numerous: neW\\roadways the Board of Trustees '(verr few g1ve tours,.. sppru~or c, and curbs. dotted by new signs of ·whom~·mterestingly enough, ··iteelfetrd' ·retNa:fs .. F.· and lighted with new lamps. hav• aead~·eateers), or is · al~i.: :~, send ·. ~1 ·Most impressivet' our· Qew thiss.dl,oilt£.ol:!:thtrstu4:e·nt$$ld filmt:••.l:9pen inv' . ··w admissions building~ (renamed teaeb.er&;vi$, 1 it-·£or ~rn~g} . . remerriber:and g{Ve. W~ tey to Stanley Becker Hall), anti with What are uur priortttes? eonvtnee one that he w.UI 1.-.ve the coming of spring. we an Rmnors abourid that we will our sehoolt the ot~r that he eagerly .. await construction of l()Stl om- di-ama··. department, · But we·do an incomplete job our new athletic facility! that the music·depattment will faeill\tating love of Union for Union is taking an aggressive ·be eurtailett What fort e For those· who 'are here. The final stan~ in securing its future more administrators, for an guarantee of a ;h~lthy, lmPP.Y from financial difficulties, AStroturf football field that was and longed existence tS' difficulties that will endanger agreed upon by the trustees, not sau . students and teachers. all but a select group of the campus? . We are our own measure. educational institutions. These Many people complain that efforts seem to have paid off. there is.:no intellectual activity· The Union commtmity ean be going on outside of the optimistic about the future of -classrooms, or ewm in the!{! the College: enl'ollment is when people are being oWJ.:IY stable, tuition--although grade conscious. My own m· climbing-is comparable to volwment in the Intellectual other schools of our staturet and Cabaret Forum was motivated applications for admission have by an attempt to take education been increasing each year. out of the exclusive domain of Respectfully, Randy Feldman Dislikes /Obituary But should we be so oontent? the classroom, and put -it back Are we really securing the where it belongs. in our lives. To the Editors:· future of our beloved institution, The initial Intellectual or are we transfonning Union 1 Cabaret was attended by a Last week, David Brind, a · ·into a place we will wish not to packed house. Mast people friend to many and a fellow remember? stayed until close to midnight. student to aU, lost his life in a We've renovated an ad· Who covered the event for tragic automobile accident. The missions buildin' that showed Concordlensis? Maybe we can't treatment of his untimely death the age. tradition and per- count on our scbool newspaper by the official , campus manence of our institution into to handle thinp sueb as theset newspaper offended not ooly something which resembles a maybe we only have rwm in my feelings for him as a friend contemporary health care our newspaper for. telling us but also my identification with clinic. (One has to wnnder substitutes for soybean, how Coacortlie1lS<is as · the whether the Nott Memnrlal- pants fashions varyt about ice _ .. .spgkesmm for the sentiments 'already named-will ever be hockey rinks; about ·an ad-· of the college community. · renovated.) And. as if without vertisement film done fGr and As we painfUlly know, .death is appreciation, we transformed about Union Con~ about job not an une<ll'(lmon event. We an our most symb'Olic and interviews on teleVIsion. Maybe witness the passing away of prestigious classroom, Old we're only supposed to not only relatives and loved ones. Cbape4 into a neon-lit, formica kno-:>', but alsn think about H~wever, the death of a t]nion clad cafeteria. · important things when \Union Co . . student is .. different~ Administratively, we seem tu ViewsH is published. And now, it Davi was, one of us. He-walked have progressed in leaps and seems, it will be squasbe'd by with us, talked wl'tb us, laughed bounds. We have a Director of the Student Forum. -HO:w can with us, md sang with us. We Housing who tells WL e~y anyone.·, · studied with =concoroienois Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Photo Editor Sports Editors Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Advertising Manager Subscriptions.Editor Calendar Editor Staff Photo Staff Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Paul Grossman Joe Maguire . Naomi Blank D .. Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Richard A. Sher Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Steve Lerner Rachel I. Mandel Jeff Scardino Neil Rosenbaum Ellen Berger Maria Manfredonia Jeruiifer Amler, MindyBroser, Ciaire Burchill, Charis Richards Kent Avery, Mindy Broser, Charis RichardS, Michael J. Elkins Calligraphy Claire Burcbill, CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by .the .student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenec~dy, New York 12308; Publications Offi~e: Susquehan~a Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, Neyv York 13838 (607) 563M7151. ~ptered in the S~henectady P.(Jst Office as third class ma~ter. Sub$cription rate: 35 ceJtts p~ copy, $10 per year, delivereo anywhere in the United States. To. theE This if weeks a~ with m misquotE U.s. cat Arabia; .Sada~r I this qu1 cQl'rectl~ u.s. ei Arabia.J asked fo week y . error, f.\1 .say. \TI Saudi i support must S1J Saudi A To theE I wish jwliors, eourteo\l question man PrE was goo ret>Res) especial students extensi' ments. You 1 knowtb« naturall: enthusiB themetl Preqept1 been re. will bel in plam course.

Page 2 Editorials: Our Views The controversy over ''Union Views'' has grown since the creation of the news magazine last year. At the beginning of this year, there was a question as to whether there would be enough funding to enable them to continue through this year. The possible merging of \Union Views\ and Concordiensis was raised as a possible solution to the problem. On Monday night, the Student Forum voted to fund ·'Union Views\ for next term, while keeping it a completely separate publication from Con· cordiensis. A decision as to what will happen next year was tabled until the beginning of next term. First of all, we would ·like to make it clear that Concordiensis is not pushing for a merger of the two papers. We are not trying or even hoping to swallow up ''Union Views'' or to take their operation away from them. We do not contest the fact that they are a viable publication. If \Union Views\ is willing or .forced to merge with us for monetary reasons, then we are willing to work for the benefit of both papers. However, if they are going to view the merger as an act of aggression, then we believe the situation would be better handled in some other way, if possible. As an organization in our own right, we resent being dragged into a controversy that, to a great extent, has nothing to do with us. The present Editorial Board and staff of Concordiensis has never had any animosity towards \Union Views.'' What may have happened in the past should remain in the past. There is no reason that we should be con- tinually forced to defend ourselves from their at- tacks. They seem to believe that to prove they are a viable organization, they must attack Concordiensis. A far more reasonable method of proving their own viability would be to concentrate on their own contributions to the campus. Instead, they seem to strike out vindictively, while taking an unrealistic view of the purpose of Concordiensis. The majority of their points are emotional outcries that tend to confuse the issue. Through the years, Concordiensis has proven its own responsibility and made its place on this campus. No one is trying to prevent \Union Views\ from doing the same thing. Playoffs Netted The men's varsity basketball team's efforts this winter haven't gone unnoticed. The squad has been invited to this weekend's ECAC Division III playoffs at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y. (See story, page 12 We'd like to add our congratulations. A post- season bid is always an honor--not only to the team that receives it, but to the College as a whole. And there's no question about the hoopers' being worthy of this laurel. Though their 13-11 regular season log was identical to last season's, this year's record included a 12-6 showing against Division III opposition--schools with athletic programs similar to Union's. A few more Division III wins this weekend would be a very nice way to end up the schedule. Whatever the outcome, though, thanks are in order to Coach Bill Scanlon and the members of this year's team for an exciting and successful showing. Finals Corrections Tuesday, March 17 • 9:00..11:00 a.m. CLASSICS 40-Democracy and Federalism in the Ancient World-Reece-HU 014 SOCIOLOGY tO-Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 1-Weiner- CH 205 C.E. 130-Structures-Doeing-BH 104 Friday, March 20 • 9:00-11:00 a.m. MATHEMATICS 12-calculus II, Sec. 8-Pappas-BH 201 Friday, March 20 • 2:08-4:00 p.m. SPANISH 11-Baslc Spanish U-Ginsberg-HU 110 OONCORDIENSIS, March 5, 1981 ----· Latte-r Campus Mood Blasted To the Editors: Progress. A difficult word to understand; it implies something which is S<l bard to define. yet, we all assume we know what it means. ~ Union College has had its own special brand of progress. Over the past year the changes have been numerous: new roadways and curbs. dotted by new signs and lighted with new lamps. Most impressive, our new admissions building, (renamed Stanley Becker Hall). and with the C()ming of spring, we all eagerly· await construction of our new athletic facility! Union is taking an aggressive stance in securing its future . from financial difficulties. difficulties that will endanger an but a select group of educational institutions. These efforts seem to have paid off. The Union community can be optimistic about the future of the Cullege: enrollment is stable, tuition--although climbing-is C()mparable to other schools of our stature, and applications for admission have been increasing each year. But should we be so cootent? Are we really securing the future of our beloved institution, . or are we transforming Union ' into a place we will wish not to remember? We've renovated an adm missions building that showed the age, tradition and per-- manence of our institution into something which resembles a contemporary health care clink. (One has to wonder whether the Nott Memorial- , already named-will ever be renovated.) And, as if without appreciation, we transformed our most symbolic and prestigious classroom, Old Chapel, into a neon·lit, formica clad cafeteria. Administratively, we seem tn have progressed in leaps and · bounds. We have a Director of Housing who tells us every reason imaginable fnr why people wontt live in Hick&k House exeept the one that be} and the rest of us~ know is the real one; people feel un· comfortable living in what they pereeive is a black perso!l's dormitory. (Actually, d1111ng tie recent past.~ less thatl 36 percent of the d(lrm~s inhabitants have been black.) Meanwhile, let us hope the <Jay never comes when we a~ ()urselves the question, why did we come to Union College? If we answer that we came for an education, who could believe that as we pay so .much money, ()Ur profes.sot·s, after a dozen years of teaching, counseling, lecturing, publishing, and giving academic advice, earn less than $25,000 a year. What are our priorities? Who is this S£hQol for? Is it for . the Administrati:on, the Athletic Department, the members of tbe Board of Trustees (very few of whom, interestingly enQugh, !lave academic careers), or is tbis school for the· students and teachers; is it for learning'? What are our priorities? Rumors abound that we will lose our drama· department, tbat the music department will be curtailed. What for? For more administrators, for an Astroturf football field that was agreed upon by the trusteest not tbe campus? Many people complain that there is no intellectual activity going nn outside of the ·classrooms, or even in therp. when people are being nverly grade conscious. My own in- volvement in tbe Intellectual Gabaret Forum was motivated by an attempt to take education ()Ut of the exclusive domain of the classroom, and put it back where it belongs, in our lives. The initial Intellectual Cabaret was attended by a packed house. Most people stayed until close to midnight. Who covered the event for Coo(:ordiensis? Maybe we can;t e()unt on our school newspaper to handle things such as these, maybe we only have room in our newspaper for telling us substitutes for soybean, bow pants fashions vary. about ice hvckey rinks, about an ad- vertisement film dune for and about Union College~ aoout job interviews on television. Maybe we;re only supposed to not only kno~.-. but also think about important things when \Union Views;; is. published. And now, it seems, it will be squashed by the Student Forum. How ean anyone put any credibility in an ()l'ganiZa:tiGn that spon$(lrS H Joe Carrlany Day~' anyway? First it's just plain ridiculous. Sec<~ndly, if they really wanted to recognize the athletic aduevements of an individual performer over the past four years~ no Qne's . bas . equaled those of Sheila .. O'Donnell. The n smacks of ijexism. L lla broke the women's Union College scoring recnrd =concoroienuis Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Photo Editor Sports Editors Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Paul Grossman Joe Maguire . Naomi Blank D. Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Richard A. Sher Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Steve Lerner Rachel I. Mandel Business Manager Advertising Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Jeff Scardino Neil Rosenbaum EllenBerger Maria Manfredonia Jenfiifer Amler, Mindy Broser, Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Kent Avery, Mindy Broser, Charis RichardS, Michael J. Elkins Claire Burchill . Staff Photo Staff Calligraphy CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by .the' student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publicati<Jns Office: SusquehanQa Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady P()St Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents p~ copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere ill the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. (CPS) long ago.) This letter is not offered in a negative spirit. It is offered under the presumption that the first step in building up is tearing down, that the fall precedes the rise, enabling it to climb higher. It is Qffered with respect, with a deep admiration and appreciation fQr our school. But it is borne by dissatisfac .. tion. It means to_express a deep concern f&r the way we run otir College. For the, prospective student, we send brochures; give tours~ sponsor campufi weekend retreats. For the alumni~ . we send literature. films and ,open invitations to remember and give. We try to convince one that he will luve our scboolt the other that he did. But we do an incomplete job at facilitating love of Uni&n for t:Mse who are here. The final guarantee of a .healthy, happy and prolonged existence is satisfied students and teachers. We are our own measure. Respectfully, Randy Feldman Dislikes ~Obituary TG the Editors: Last week, David Brind, a friend to many and a fellow student to all, lost his life in a tragic automobile accident. The treatment of his untimely death by the official campus newspaper offended not only my feelings for him as a friend but also my identification with Concordien&is as the spokesman for the sentiments of the college community, As we painfully know. death is not an uncommon event. We all witness the passing away of relatives and loved ones. However, the death of a Union C<lllege student is different. David was one of us. He walked with us, talked with us, laughed with us, and .sang with us. We saw him at parties, studied with \him at the library, and sat in class near him. David , had expectf!Uons tmd drearqs .·that many of U$. share. He had the fears and uncertainties of the future that we have. For.David, the future. brought tragedy. was treated as · .. a new.s .. ID;t,\ry It was not a· . ·--~---: - .- . Bditfr'sNo~e··treatmmt. · antt·'content···· of ··Dav~ ··Bnmt\s ijtJifiuary ·was··· 'dtseussett· itt length with'tmdappr6ved b:Ytli~ Ptesident 1 ''6f Thettt . Delta 6Di . ._ .. I I f !. ( ' C< c~ To the Et This is weeksagt with mE misquote~ U.S. can' Arabia. Sadat, I this qufj correctly u.s. ell Arabia. I' asked fot week y~ error, ag say, uTh Saudi A support.~ must SUJ Saudi Ar ] Pn Qu4 ~ To theE I wish juniors, courteorn questioru man Pre~ was goo( replies) i especiall students extensiv ments. You n knowtha natural!) · enthusial therneth Preqepte been re~ will beg in plann course. Pre-1 Pr Ql An Ope: ministra -~ The ( registrat effect fo1 now, YE refuses t threeyel been co: system changes College! the ne• beyond 1 The PI plainly J registra1 sameda up. Stud~ to pick u: bounce~ all the sidering addition. unfairly thnse. v classe$.1 registr~ perc lass closed'\ coursetl fulfill _a ThfkSC . pre~Ju:~1 should · . during actual$ way, stu idea of select, a cards

l' ; •. .,...,,,;,) -r~·- .... <~('\· '~ .. _\ ' OONOORDIENSIS, March 5, 1981· '~- : ·:. ·- Correction c Corrected TG the Editors: everyonf! will. have an equal opportu.pity ~ obtain tbem. There IS nothmg. novel about this proposa,4 and I'm sure that , other students could come up with evoo better .. suggestions. ~ltho:Ugb the Adminiatration · This is becoming silly. Two rrught argue that under the weeks ago you ran an interview present s.ystem, the course wi~h . me .in which. I was ~chedule is available in the nus·q· u. o. te~. l mad. e th_e e point th·e. ltbrar. _J a_b .. ea .. d <lf. time, it doe_. · sn. 't U.S~. ;9fln t not suppo11. _Saudia o(fer a .sQlutlon ~o what happens . Aralua. It. ean!t · not; su~rt :wrherum.e e.opy· m stolen and the Sada~f I said..,~- the Jrltet'Yl~W. ot!ler, ~orJled up be~ore any this- quote was pnnted m- nlJ.ltlber of s.tu.dents. have a ~c.tl¥· I was JO.iUl~.to say tb~ __ cha,,n<!e. to get. a l09k ~t the list u.~ ... e~n't , s_upvort saudf J~hien is, what ~ippened this :Arabm._It ~an _t SUJ)J?ort . ••· I. tllile}. Let.s~fa~ Jt~ tbe present asked for ~ -correction . · last\ · srstlim has . :'Vflany short- week yo~ c&m~ounded ~ the comings, and the ~tutient body error, ~am making me out to has S()me suggestio~, S{) why say, \The U.S. can not aupport isn 1 t. anything being done? I Saudi Ar:.abia, you c~ .not expect an administrative reply. support Sadat. '' I do belteve w-e must support both Stidat and Saudi Arabia. Prof. Stephen Pelletiere Preceptorial Questionnaire Response Pra.ised To the Editors; l wish to thank the seniors, juniors, and sophomores who courteously returned the recent questionnaire aoout the Fnsbw man Preceptorial. The response was good in nwnber {about 100 replies} and in quality. We are . especially grateful to the- many studcents woo took time to make extensive and . helpful com- ments. You may be interested to know _that the testimony, though naturally mixed,- was mostly enthusiastic and supportive ()( the methods and purposes of the Pre~eptorial. The answers have been read· carefully, and they will be given full consideration in planning the futun of this course. Alan Nels(ln Associate Dean, Undergn.duate Studi-es I . Neil Eisenstadt C)assof'82 David M. Brind . (d. 2/2l/81) TQ the Editors:· ·F(Jr tb,e first time in three y~, 1 noticed an emptiness in the seat next to me o.n the Glee Club bus. During those years) I always could expect him to be theret and be never tlisappointed me. It was just like in the library, at the bars and parties, in ~he outdoors, at the Glee Club rehearsals, and in our respective rooms; we had done S{l v'f:lry much together. On Feb. 21~ however, the seat next to me became empty. I study t but I study alone. I patty, but .1 party alone. I still bunt, f'lSh~ sing, and reflectt but all of these I do al:nne. I cannot say., though, that be has dis~ppointed me, because even though I am alone, I am not without him! I remember our rich and wonderful ex· periences~ and they will live on m me endlessly. Not distance nor time shall , e_·.ver separate- us, yet I am so ~isbed J>y his . . . that I .Rumor bas it that God is coming here next week to debate the existence of Jean Pell-etiere. Unfortunately, 'the ''pro\ side will probably win. Mike Winikoff '83 Kathy Donohue '81 Polly Wheeler '83 Senior Forum Committees Announced To all studentS: Recently, the Student Forum created a new committee called the Senior Projects Committee. This committee is made up of two distinct sections; the Senior Gift .section and the Senior FUng section. The goal of each section is fairly obvious. Both of these t~ks (i.e .• collection of a senior gift, and the organization of a senior party) have been \done irregularly in the past. The reason for creating this com- mi~ is t{} ensure that. in the future, each of these jobs will be accomplish~~ every year. Hence~ we· would hopefully avoid something like last year's collapse of the Senior Fling. Currently. we are looking for students, especially seniors, to worls: on either section of the Senior Projects Committee. We - would like to get gqing on· these projects at th~ Jieginning of sprmg term. If you are in- terested~ please sign up in the Student Activities office now, or call me at 372-6332. · Thank you, David M. Handler '81 Seninr Representative Student Forum. Thanks Concert Organizers '1'9 the Editors: I write this letter to extend a warm and sincere thank you to Billy Friedman and his concert committee for an outstanding Op-Ed: evening this past Sat11rday night at Proctor's Theatre. The concert was a success and the audience's reaction was a testament to its appreciation Qf 'tbe concert committee's efforts. Being one of those satisfied students, I wanted to thank Billy, his co-chail\man Seth Oringher, and the entire committee for making tbe James Taylor concert possible. Sincerely, A satisfied Union student Israeli Te,rm Too Expensive? To the Editors: . Alth~pgh this correspondence ~s a bit late, I would never-- theless like to respond to David M. Handler's letter to Con- cordiensis, dated Feb. 5. Ill this letter Mr. Handler has made an attempt to enlighten the student community in regards to the strengths and weaknesses of the winter term abroad in Israel. I, too, went on this particular term abroad, and found it to be one of the finest . educational experiences I have had in my college years. Whether it was picking grapefruits on the kibbut~ travelling throughout Israel, or studying in a classroom, I gained a much better Wlderstanding of Israeli culture, as well as _American culture. However, as Mr. Handlers o succinctly states, . there is one glaring technical point of vexation with the Israeli tenn abroad. Consiqering the fact that no professor aceompanies the group throughout the program, that each student pays for his own airfare., . and that each student works ap- P!oximately four hours a day, SlX days a week, to com..uensate the kibbutz for room, board, and classes in Hebrew, it seems rather strange that the students are required to pay nearly $2,000 in tuition to Union College. In light of the un- mitigated rise in the cost of a Page 3 Union education, it seems very unreasonable that this tuition payment exists. I am sure that this aspect of the Israeli term abroad bas been brought to ·the attention of various administrators,. but there continues to be no am· melioration in policy with regards to this issue. Sincerely, GaryTurer Class of 1981 Runner lauded To the Editors: I It has come to the attention that many devoted athletes are never recognized for their time and contributions. In par· ticular, Union's ·varsity track and cross-co\Ultry teams (men and women's) receive the least amount of recognition. For this reason, we, the members of VALU PACK, would like to take this opportunity to distinguish one athlete who constantly puts in diligent, never-failing (DNF) effort. Jack Connor, a member of Union's varsity cross-country and track teams has been unanimously selected to be the generic beer athlete of the week. Jack's DNF effort has been unnoticed for four years! Why? Perhaps _this· is un- derstandable, if you personally know Jack. He stands only 5 foot 3 inches and weighs 130 pounds, and is. the most modest little fellow you'd ever want to meeto You may even see his \massive\ physique if he reveals his chest and only wears his yellow Adidas running shorts. Jack wears only the running shorts every day. Jack is also a member of Phi Delta Theta (the fraternity that'll need more than \Blue Skies Over Union\ to drive s1iuth on Route 50). He lives on the fourth floor with the rest of the Bachelor Club. However, Jack might have to give up his membership to the club because he's been seen talking. to the Continued on page-,6 Theatre Dept. Confused By PAUL GROSSMAN What do we do now'? Seems to be the question being asked by • many people involved in theatre at Union. The recent produc- tion, WORKING, was a sellout success. The enthusiasm wilM;i#tdl. generated by the show has been WJWil>FM!P''''iW\\~\'mNNW'>'~·:W>'iWlf\'~'\\\''''~·ww-\ 8 '\'''. .•• ,,.\' 1 i\·''''''''l contagious. There are some, however, who seem more confused than enthusiastic about theater at Union. Prof. Dan Robbins is the new ~~iit,,\g~~i~~g!)t~JfM~~~,,~Q~{u\b.~€h~~~h 1 A1ftr-,l Chairman of the . Arts depart- ment here. His primary goal is to form coherent directions for the various subdivisions of the Arts Department to take in the futl1re. The need for this sort of guidance is obvious to anyone who is in contact with theater productions at Union. The recent show is an ex- cellent example of the kinds of conceptual problems that the Arts Department faces. Of the nearly 100 people devoting huge amolUlts of time to the ~how, merely a handful are theater majors as such. The students taking the \stragecraft\ course comprise only about half of the technical crew for the show. . The rest of the individuals in· volved in the show were not involved for fotrnal reasons; there were no course · requirements or major credits to be gained. The result is a genuine problem facing the Arts Department. They must somehow find a way to provide theater experience in an academic way that is ap· propriate to the type of in- stitution that Union is, while at the same time provide for the huge student interest in theater. WORKING was directed and choreographed by a. guest director. The Arts Department invited him to stage a .musical and for good reason; tbe scale . of the production is greater than the capacity of the department. This is not to say that the theater department is in- competent, merely that the department is not structured so as to handle a large scale production like the one that was presented. The talents of the individuals in the theater department are indisputable, rather it is the goals of the department that falls under question. The Administration has not given Robbins or the depart- ment any specific direction, feeling that such a decision is for the department itself to decide. Until Prof. Robbins and the faculty come up with a cogent plan for the arts here at Union, the Administration appears to be content with things as they are. Support for theater at Union is ·widespread throughout the College com- munity. Dean Willard Roth • s position is clear; his in- volvement in THE CRUCmLE last term and his support for WORKING sends a good feeling through the Nott. Vice President Thomas J. D'Andrea has himself expressed a desire to participate actively in a production. Even President JohnS. Morris has displayed his supp9rt in both tangible ad intangible ways. The only group of individuals who can be considered less enthusiastic about theater is the theater faculty themselves. There were many instances during the past term when those involved in the theater had to face problems that should have at least had the support of the Department, but there was no support to be given. One must question the strength of any decision about Union theater in view of the distance that exists between those making the decisions and the people who are deeply involved in the theater. The only way that the needs of the students can be met through the goals of the , department is. if there is much ·more close contact and interest displayed on the part . of the chairman and faculty of the Arts Department.

I . I CONCORDIENSIS, March 5~ 1981 Page 3 , . . ,. . .: . . ' \ . \ ' . . ·. . . . ' : ' ' ' ' Letters~. --------.---- Correction Corrected To the Editors: This is becoming silly. Two weeks ago you ran an interview with me in which I was misquoted. I made the point the U.S. can't nQt support Saudia Arabia. It can't not support Sadat, I said. In the interview this quote was printed in· correctly, I was made to say the U.S. can't support Saudi Arabia. It can't support Sadat. I asked for a correction and last week you c~mpounded the error, again making me out to say, \The U.S. can not support Saudi Arabia, you can not supportSadat.\ I do believe we must support both Sadat and Saudi Arabia. Prof. Stephen Pelietiere P recepforial Questionnaire Response Praised To the EditDrs: I wish to thank the seniors, juniors, and sophomores who courteously returned the recent questionnaire about the Fresh· man Preceptorial. The response was good in number (about 100 replies) and in quality. We are especially grateful to the many students who took time to make extensive and helpful com· ments. . You may be interested to know that the testimony, though naturally mixed, was mostly · enthusiastic and supportive of themethods and purposes of the Preceptorial. The answers have been read carefully~ and they will be given full consideration in planning the future of this course. Alan Nelson Associate Dean, Undergraduate Studies Pre-registration Procedure· Questioned An . Open Letter to the . Ad- ministration: -- The College's chaotic pril- registration system bas been in eflect for: a g{)od length Gf time now, yet the Administration · refuses to open its eyes. In my three years at Union. there have been constant attacks on the system and recommended changes to improve it; why the College has not acted and made everyone will have an equal opportunity to obtain them. There is nothing novel about this proposal, and I'm sure that ot;?er students could co1ne up wtth even better suggestions. Although the Administration might argue that under the present system, the course schedule is available in the library ahead of time, it doesn't offer a solution to what happens when one cppy is stolen and the other lucked up before any number of students have a . chance to get a look at the list (which is what happened this 'tme). Let's faC'e it~ the present system has ·many short* comings, and the student body has some suggestions, so why isn't anything being done? I expect an administrative reply. Neil Eisenstadt CJassof'82 David M .. Brind (d. 2/21 /81) To the Editors:· For the first time in three years, I noticed an emptiness in the seat next to me on the Glee Club bus. During those years, I always could expect him to be there, and he never disappointed me. It was just like in the library, at the bars and parties, in the outdoors, at the Glee Club rehearsals, and in our respective rooms; we had done so very much together. On Feb. 21, however, the seat next to me became empty. I study, but I study alone. I patty, but I party alone. I still hunt, fish, sing, and reflect, but all of these I do alone. I cannot say, though, that he has disappointed me, because even though I am alone, I am not without him! I remember our rich and wonderful ex- periences, and they will live on in me endlessly. Not distance nor time shall ever separate us~ yet I am so diminished by his death that I yearn for the eolor in his face, the excitement in his eyes, the laughter in his voicei and the warmth of his clasp. These are forever gone, but n'>w I perceive much less emptiness in the seat next to me. He always will be there because I want him there . .. forever! Always his friend, Ron Scaccia lntellectural Cabaret's Tone Condemned . the necessary reforms is · beyond me. , To the Editors: The problem is simple: It is plai:nly ridiculous to issue the The Intellectual Cabaret is to . registration materials on the be commended for the idea of · same day cards must be picked having a discussion on the up. Student& cann<>t be expected existance of God. Un- • . to pick up a course schedule and fortunately, the idea is all that bounce around getting cards to .deserves praise~ The actual · all the courses they are con- discussion was a mockery of · sidering s~ing up for. 1n r~ligiont and l think the rf;lason addition, the- present system is obvious: Moderator Jean unfairly discriminates ~gainst Pellitiere. She constantly .in- those. wbo have exams , or . terrupted tbe speakers to lead classes on the. first day of pre.. the .. cnnversation ... in whatever . registration,. especially up.. direction she saw flt. She~ perclassmen who. might . get nodded along with certain closed .... ,out . of an itnpprtant speakers~ wbile la.ughing at coursethatthey d:ependedonA:o others. When she interrupted £ulf!11.a ,specific gequiremeJ~t~ ... Reverend JQnes to say) \That 'l'httsoluUon,is.cleat~reut~ The reminds .me-.of a funny. stoxy •• . pre .. c.·egistr.a~on. .mater~als ,n I. nearly .. p. uked. She seemed should- be available some ttme to have,no tdea that some of us during the week preceding . were there for a serious a{!tual pre-registration. In.this discu~,;;sion. Choosing. Ms. way, studeats.winhavea better . Pellltiere as medi~tor was like idea of what eoutses they will tQ.e League. of W<lmen. Voters . select, andalthougb,the rush for . choosing D~>n Rickles t() c~ar.ds- wilL remain intense,. mediate a Presidential .debate. Rumor has it that God is coming here next week tQ debate the existence of Jean Pelletiere. Unfortunately, the ''pro'' side will prol>ably win. Mike Winik()ff '83 Kathy Donohue '81 Polly Wheeler '83 Senior Forum Committees Announced To all students : Recently, the Student Forum created a new committee called the Senior Projects Committee. This committee is made up of two distinct sections; the Senior Gift section and the Senior Fling section. The goal of each section is fairly obvious. Both of these tasks {i.e., collection ofa senior gift, and the organi2ation of a senior party) have been done irregularly in the past. The reason for creating this com- mittee is to ensure that, in the future, each of these jobs will be accomplished every year. Hence, we would hopefully avoid something like last year's collapse of the Senior Fling. Currently, we are looking for students, especially seniors, to work on either section of the Senior Projects Coiillllittee. We would like to get going on· these projects at th~ begitming of spring term. If you are in- terested~ please sign up in the Student Activities office now, or can me at 372-6332. Thank you, David M. Handler '81 Senior Repre:sentative Student Forum Thanks Concert Organizers To the Editors: I write this letter to ex:tend a warm and sincere thank you to Billy Friedman and hi.s concert committee for an outstandin~ Op-Ed: evening this past Saturday night at Proctor's Theatre. The concert was a success and the audience's reacti<Jtl was a testament to its appreciation of the concert committee's efforts. Being one of those satisfied students, I wanted to thank Billy, his cCH!hairman, Seth Oringher, and the entire committee for making the James Taylor concert pOSSible. Sincerely, A satisfied Union student Israeli Term Too Expensive? To the Editors: . Altho~gh this correspondence 1s a bit late, I would never- theless like to respond to David M. Handler's letter to Con· cordiensis, dated Feb. 5. In this letter Mr. Handler has made an attempt to enlighten the student community in regards to the strengths and weaknesses of the winter term abroad in Israel. I, too, went on this particular term abroad, and found it to be one of the finest educational experiences I have had in my college years. Whether it was picking grapefruits on the kibbutz, travelling throughout Israel. or studying in a classroom, I gained a much better Wlderstanding of Israeli culture, as well as .American culture. However, as Mr. Handler s o succinctly states, . there is one glaring technical point of vexation with the Israeli term abroad. Considering the fact that no professor accompanies the group throughout the program, that each student pays for his own airf;:rre, and that . each student works ap- proxunately .four hours a day, six days a week, to compensate the kibbutz for room, board. and classes in Hebrew, it seems rather strange that the students are required to pay nearly $2,000 in tuition to Union College. In light of the un~ mitigated rise in the cost of a Union education, it seems very unreasonable that this tuition payment exists, I am sure that this aspect of the Israeli tenn abroad has been brought . to the attention of various · administrators, but there continues to he no am- · melioration in policy wjth regards to this issue. Sincerely, Gary 'furer Class of 1981 Runner lauded To the Editors: It has come to the ~ttention that many devoted athletes are never recognized for their time and contributions. In par- ticular, Union's varsity track and cross-country teams (men and women's) receive the least amount of recognition. For this reason, we, the members of VAL U PACK, would like to take this opportunity to distinguish one athlete who constantly puts in diligent, never-failing (DNF) effort. Jack Connor, a member of Union's varsity cross*country and track teams has been unanimously selected to be the generic beer athlete of the week. Jack's DNF effort has been unnoticed for four years! Why? Perhaps _this is un- derstandable, if you personally know Jack. He stands only 5 foot 3 inches and weighs 130 pounds, and is • the most modest little · fellow you'd ever want to meet. You may even see his \massive\ physique if he reveals his chest and only wears his yellow Adidas running shorts. Jack wears only the running shorts every day. Jack is also a member of Phi Delta Theta (the fraternity that'll n~ed more than ''Blue Skies Over Union\ to drive s'buth on Route.50). He lives on the fourth floor with the rest of the Bachelor Club. However, Jack might have to give up his membership to the club because he's been seen talking. to the Continued on page-.6 Theatre Dept. Confused By PAUL GROSSMAN What do we do now? Seems to be the question being asked by many people involved in theatre at Union. The rec:ent produc- tion, WORKING, was a sellout . success. The enthusiasm · generated by the show has been contagious. There are some, however, who seern more • confused than enthusiastic about theater at Union. Prof. Dan Robbins is the new Chairman of the Arts depart· ment here. His primary goal is to form coherent directions for the various subdivisions of the Arts Department to take in the future. The need for this sort of guidance is obviollS to anyone who is in contact with theater productions at Union. The recent show is an ex· cellent example of the kinds of conceptual problems that the Arts Department faces. Of the nearly 100 people devoting huge amounts of time to the show, merely a handful are theater majors as such. The students taking the \stragecraft\ course comprise only about half of the technical crew for the show. • The rest of the individuals in· · volved in the show were not involved for formal .reasons; . there · were no course requirements or major credits to be gained. The result is a genuiF!e problem facing the Arts Department. They must somehow find a way to provide theater experience in an academic way that is ap- propriate to the type of in- stitution that Union is, while at the same time provide for the huge student interest in theater. WORKING was-directed aFld choreographed by a guest director. The Arts Department invited him to stage a musical and for good reason; the scale of the production is greater than the capacity of the department. This is not to say that the taeater department is in· competent, merely that the department is not structured so as to handle a large scale production like the one that was presented. The talents of the individuals in the theater department are indisputable, rather it is the goals of the department that falls under question. The Administration has not given Robbins or the depart- ment any specific direction, feeling that such a decision is for the department itself to decide. Until Prof. Robbins and the faculty come up with a cogent plan for the arts here at Union, the Administration appears to be content with things as they are. Support for theater at Union is widespread throughout the College com- munity. Dean Willard Roth's position is clear; his in- volvement in THE C'RUCffiLE last term and his support for WORKING sends a good feeling through the Nott. Vice President Thomas J. D'Andrea has himself expressed a desire to participate actively in a production. Even President JohnS. Morris has displayed his support in both tangible ad intangible ways. The only group of individuals who can be considered less enthusiastic about theater is the theater faculty themselves. There were many instances during the past tenn when those involved in the theater had to face problems that should have at least had the support of the Department, but there was no support to be given. One must question the strength of any decision about Union theater in view of the distance that exists between those making the decisions and the people who are deeply involved in the theater. The only way that the needs of the students can be met through the goals of the ~department is if there is much more close contact and interest displayed on the part of the chairman and faculty of the Arts Department.

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, March 5, 1981 Editor's Notebook: 30- By JIM DAVIS \Thirty\ is the, symbol traditionally written at the end of newspaper articles. It means the story's over, and there's no more copy. Hard to believe. though it is, this issue marks the time when the staff that's bringing you Concordiensis each week during the fall and winter tenns will be placing a \30\ on its career. Always, events .such as this can easily become emotional. Especially for this reporter, who is now closing the curtain on involvement with this publication that began way back in September 1977. No emotions will rule the day here, though. Rather, pride wm. Simply put the group of people who've workedonthe paper this year have been far and away the most talented I've had the good fortune of being a part of here. the campus community as to how they're doing. Ultimately, too, that's the way for you to get the kind of newspaper you want. It's not easy to please all of the people all of the time. And I wouldn't delude myself into thinking ~hat the present staff has. But, judging :from the responses I've noted, we've come remarkably close. Just pleasing everyone wasn't - and I don't think should have - been our primary objective, though, if it was an aim at all. instead, I'd hope, we gave our readers reason to think, and then to act while periodic&].ly getting the chance to pause for a chuckle or two. A good · newspaper should be ,a reflection ,of the community it covers. I think we have been, and our .style, in the end, is and has been but a reflection of the excellence of Union College. Opinion: Dealf a Full ·House 'By DONNA M. CREELEY It is apparent that the ad- ministration is anticipating a ShDrtage in availability of on- campus women's housing for the upcoming year. This is a vecy real problem that bas already res.ulted in five-Woman suites, tripling of doubles and converting lounges into bedrooms. Clearly, the av.ailable housing resources have been depleted (except for Hickock House -which. requires major repairs, but presently has 19 empty beds}. Yet the need for more accomodations presists with our attempts to even the male-female ratio of the college. In an attempt to meet this persisting need, the ad- ministration is investigating several options. One such option involves the relocation of some of the Greek organizations. This would not eliminate the housing of any Greek organization, but would allow the administration to reallocate the distribution of space so as to provide the greatest number of spaces for the greatest need, thus in- creasing the number of rooms made available for women. This option may be ac- complished by an exchange .of facilities between tw() or more. Greek organizations or by the loss of ce·rtain non-Greek facilities, accompanied by the gain of them elsewhere on campus. The latter choice .rnay be more detrimentat than one first perceives it to be, as it may mean the loss of the co-op option in exchange for more regUlar dormitory ~pace. In this case, the necessity of offering . a choice to students concerning their housing will be weig·hed against the actual nuniber ·of available rooms. If this situation cannot be avoided, I certainly hope that it is the students who are holding the scales! But, in my opinion, the situation stated abov:e can be avoided simply by con- centrating our efforts on creation rather than relocation, being occupied' by ad· ministrative offices? Some, but not all, of our ad- ministrative .offices could be .jocated off-campus without hampering their ability to ftmction properly. Specifically, I am referring to the Alumni Affairs Office and the Public Relations Department, which are presently located in Lamont House. This house has in the past been successfully us.ed ;iS a Greek house and certainly could easily be ret.urned to that state. Also, the offices presently located there woUld only be relocated about one block from their present location and hardly any .further ftolll the mainstream ·of student traffic. . Another rel~ted. suggestion is that the office·s of Wells House locate ih Lamont, and Weils would be ~sed for residence if the renovation costs for that building would be ·less than those for Lamont House. Keeping the quality of the .publication at an acceptable level week after week isn't- and wasn't - a simple task. But the job was remarkably simple this year. Deity Debated · Perhaps the use of the word \creation\ is a bit misleading. I do not.suggest that we con$truct new dormitor.ies at this time. This would n.ot serve to aide our ·short term problems and may even result in wasting money if the overall College population does decline as predicted. In- stead; I am referring to more full utilization of the College's existing assets .. Also, by utilizing these off~ campus buildings as· offices, th~y will become tax-exempt for that property and the money saved could be pUt toward heating bills and other operating costs. This reorganization of facilities has, as far as I am aware, not been considered by the administration. Many students and faculty are presently wondeting why this is so. I sincerely hope that the answer lies in the near- sightedness of the ad- ministration and not in their efforts to maintain their own comfortableness at the expense of the students! Regardless of the reasons, it is a very rational response to a very real problem and should not be overlooked any longer. Specifically, I think we made an honest effort - and succeeded far more often than not - in thoroughly covering the. campus scene - openly and fairly, with a minimum of bias. Could we have it all to do again, I don't think I'd want it done much differently. That's a nice feeling - especially when you're one of those who· bears the ultimate responsibility. Honors, if they were to be awarded, would have to go to the staff, the .. ones who made the paper work. The level of in- terest and participation we've had this year has been hear- tening, to say the least. , In the course of succession, though, it's time now for us to turn over the reigns. Your new · editors, Paul Grossman and Rachel Mandel, ·are ex- perienced, knowledgable and capable. I'm confident they'll do an outstanding job. For all they know, however, they still need feedback from By JOE MAGUffiE Intellectual Cabaret is run by students, professors, alumni, and just about anyone else who wants to help. Intellectual Cabaret is at- tended by students, professors, alumni, and just about anyone else who wants to hear. Surely Intellectual Cabaret deserves coverage in Con- cordien~is. So I went to Monday night's discussion concerning the existence of God. A newspaper is no place to be discussing the existence of God. A newspaper is supposed to be concerned with facts and figures, not hearsay and heresy. But we've already coVered many of the facts concerning Intellectual Cabaret in previous issues. I can't think of a way to let you know exactly what goes on at these events, but I'm supposed to write something. You've got to see it for yourself. I can tell you about Julien You Con· Still Make A Difference While careers in public service may notbe as fashionable as they were a decade ago, such careers can be very rewarding and personally satisfying. After justthree months of intensive training at The Institute for Paralegal Training, you will bepreparedtowork in govern- ment agencies, publicserviceorganizatlons and law firms as a Legal Assistant in the fields of Administrative and Public Law or Criminal Law. You will doworktraditionallyp,erformed by attorneys. You will work .in the dynamic field of govern· ment legislation and regulation and be involved in such areas as: Environmental Law, Food Drug and Health Law, Criminal Justice. Equal Opportunity, Welfare. Energy, and Product Safety Law. Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The institute. We are the nation's first and most respected school for paralegal training, and since 1970, have traiAed more than Ll;OOO college graduates from across the country. If you are a senior of high academic starJ.ding and looking for a meaningful career, contact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative. Wewillvisityourcampuson: AP,RIL 7, 1981 The 14 Institute 235 south 17th StreEl..\ for ~. ~: ~ Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 Paralegal t !I! ~ (215) 732·66oo Training ~~~~ • •I ~ ..... • •.!,!. (Operaled by Para-Legal. Inc 1 Approved by The American Bar Association Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law. Cole, .and ·his \militant\ atheism. Or about Rev. Stuart Jones and his ohilisophically founded belief. Or about Peter Heinegg and his intellectually founded doubts. I'm not going to do that, though, because I'd almost certainly insult someone. When writing about such a basic question as God's existence it's hard not to inflict yollr op1mons on your readership. You've got to see it for yourself. You wouldn't be alone. The Cabaret Room- was filled well beyond capacity with an eclectic s~ple of·Union people last Monday. The panelists are witty, the audience participants are eager, and the atmosphert . is usually relaxed .. I could present some of the major arguments, but they would be tangled by my own interpretations and writing style. That's why I am reluctant to give you any details. Just go. Typing Service 75c/page Contact · Cl1eryl at 399-7614 - Lyle invites.aH you h~ngry Union students to LYLE'S ••:!i9 HOAGIES We're open to thewee hours. Let us make you one·of our fine Submarines. 460 State Sf. 370-2566 Just a few doors up from the Proctors I am aware that the College does own property and buildings off campus on the east side. I am also aware that the present zoning laws prohibit the College from using the$e facilities for student liousing. But, do the zoning laws also p~ohibit these buildings from ~.. . •.. -· Soups .. .French ·.on1on Kosher food Triple Dec;kers Sa,ndwiches of all sorts Beer Imported and Domestic Wine ..• and ·much, much more! . . . VOOUU£ ~12 £[)112~CTUI2 UAVI() 1\~1§1\~12~ 100 JA~ §TV~~T '~ti~~~CTA~- N.~ ()J>~~= . MUN. Ttil?U SAT. ST() f3 TljUl?. fV~ TILL <J W~ Wll_LH ()V~N At=T~V ALL J)I2()CT()lti TllUT~~ V~~r:OO'\.A~C:~S . . David we/comes and invites everyone, especially from Union College, to dine and experience the Center Stage Deli Cy Contlnu· there h particip interest not d~ unusual The qUE and pro one- i1 interes acaden serious ferent'' interes physic! stimul~ activitiE the WI differ en people which tl and pr things 1 they al't in that beings havedi! and ent Q:So Union? here? A: I stimul challenl raison< arts co: dament for stud of acti' suggest apologi: Cutricu apologi: Q: H turing becausE and c• w~nted, money A: comes

OONOORDIENSIS, March 5, 1981 Pag~ 5 Cynical Questions About Steinmetz Seminar Continued from page 1 there have also been several participating students whose interest · and motivation were not demonstrated by any unusual grade point average. 1'he questionable assumption - and probably the more serious one - is that students who ar.e interested in stimulating academic challenges and serious discussion are .. dif- ferent\ from students who. are interested in demanding physical challenges I or stimulating extracurricular activities like the Outing Club or the WRUC. .Sure, there are differences in that each group of people has different resources which they like tcr make use of- m . and probably has different -e things that they do well,. But ~ they aPe fundamentally similar .~ in that they are all human .!!! beings at Union College who ._ have distinct interests, abilities, 2 and enthusiasms. u Q: So why is this happening at Union? Does it really belong .2 here? _g c. purposes, and they are ~lling to make some significant sacrifices to obtain them. What matters is precisely the .pur- poses. that students come here with. In faet, it is the purpose of a student's coming to Union that matters most in the creation and execution of the Steinmetz C'I.U'ricttlum. 'l'he program is not for students with high organization, and how all of us have to relate to the world around us - a world of science and technology, a world of different cultlires and values, and a world of professions and careers. It's a question of per~pective and attitude. Q: What attitudes matter to you? Do you really pretend that vaunted behavioral science can curious, sensitive, and rigorous ··• haven't had spectacular academic records precisely because their minds are so actively engaged that they don't • always pay attention to the details .necessary for ,gooa grades. Q: So what about the issue of measurement? How do you tell whether someone has the \right , .. ;.,. \\ Program, although there is something hopefully \special\ about them. Q: Don't dodge the issue of bow students are selected. A: l wasn't. I was responding to your issue. But the specifics of the selection process are quite easy to describe. Often, faculty members can be very helpful in recommending students who have been ar- ticulate and assertive in class. But most importantly, every term we invite aU interested students to apply directly themselves. We've been pleased with both the quantity and quality of students who have taken this initiative. Each seminar has its own 1 specific criteria for admission, depending on the .purpose and level of expertise demanded in a certain area. The usual selection procedure involves asking interested students to indicate those fa,culty who know them the best for informal recommendations and personal interviews or essays. A: I happen t<J think tllat stimulating, intelleetual challenges are the core and raison d'etre of a small, liberal arts college. Union has a -fun- damental obligation to provide for students who enjoy this kind of activity. Your whole t()ne suggests that you want me to apologize for the Steinmetz Curriculum. There is nothing to apologize .for. Byron Nichols fields a question concerning the Steinmetz Q: Somehow this interview makes me uneasy. You justify the existence of an honors program on democratic grounds. You tell me that at- titudes and perspective matter far more than gr~des. You suggest that any Union student is encouraged to apply for any given seminar. You tell me that these students aren't superior but that they do have special interests and abilities. How about having a beer while I sort all of this out? Q: Hey, don't you start lec- turing me. I carne to Union because I had certain purposes and certain things that I wanted, and I'm paying a lot of money to get them. A: Exactly. Everybody comes to Union for certain cumulative averages, flashy SAT scores, or h~h school class valedictorians. The program is for students who have certain purposes and attitudes in coming to Union. Q: You mean like getting into Harvard Law School or Yale Med? A: Gads; you really are cynical. No, I'm talking about something quite different. I'm talking about students whose purpose in coming to Union is to find out in some serious fashion who they are as individuals, what human society is all about in its priorities and identify and measure those attitudes? A: The attitudes that matter are not that hard to state in simple English. Last year's literature on the Steinmetz Curriculum stressed three things, and they haven't changed: the qualities of curiosity, sensitivity, and rigor. Students who possess these · qualities often have high cwnulative averages, but there is no necessary connection at all. In fact, some of the most interesting and stimulating students I've known at Union - people who are especially attitude\? Howcan you identify someone who is better than someone else? A: The issue is not whether someone is better or worse than someone else. One damn problem with a lot of Union students is that every evaluation process or selection turns into a judgment of their fundamental worth as a human being. Sometimes I have the sense that Union students have a collective inferiority complex - one which is completely un- justified. But in any event, there is nothing \superior\ about ·anyone in the Steinmetz A: Faculty get paid to make students uneasy. I'm only partly kidding. Thanks for the offer of a beer, but how about some Chivas? THIS IS JUST THE BEGIN'NING A FRENCH PA.STRY SHOP F~aturing: - Gateaux et Tortes: Hours: Croissants:~ Flaky breakfast roll, hot coffee. dehcious with Danish Pastries: Butter rich and baked fresh daily Palmiers: A delicate French favorite form~d from puff _pastry, brushed lightly with golden honey. . ' Chocolate covered cream puffs Sticky buns - Assorted cookies - Cheesecake ' 4 de Ia Patisserie'\ our own ... and it is - delicious! Tuesday thru Saturday, ·s·a.m.-6 p.m. - Linzer Torte A classic Austrian de~rt tnade with rasp- berry jam, fLavored. with fresh almonds and cinnamon. - Chocolate Bourbon Cake A rich chocolate cake full of ground pecans and ,bourbon - steeped raisins. Mocha Walnut Torte Lucious layers of K..ahlu.a-laced cake, apricot jam and mocha buttercream covered with a chocolate espressoo glaze. - Chocolate Rum Mousse Cake Very tender, very moist and very, very chocolaty. -Almond Amarettp Torte The \Flourless cake,\ too delicious to d~scribe. - Carrot Cake A moist favorite with white raisins and walnuts. . We will also be opening our doors on evenings when the Proctor's Theatre is \Just off Broadway.\

Page 6 OONOORDIEN818, March 5~ 1981 arts Coffeehouse Successful On Friday, about 50 people filled the Cabaret Room for an evening of folk singlng, guitar playing, the blues, yodel_ing, hand clapping and storytellmg by Bill Staines. The evening, sponsored by Coffeehouse, provided Staines an opportunity to display his talents in their best en- vironment: A small room filled with .a few people Who ap- preciate Staines' style. become polished. Staines is primarily a folk country singer, but he is. a performer with enough talent and sense to mix it up in his show. The most unllSual event of the evening was ''Staines Trumpet Concerto in E Major (Second Movement).\ In this piece the .guitar played the part of the symphony orchestra and the composer ,played the part of the trumpet by ''humming\. Also memorable was Staines' only blues tune, \We've only been married three weeks, and .already it's over!' has. three albums: Miles ( 1.975), Just Play one More Tune (1977), and The Whistle ·of the Jay (1979). Part of what is lost on the albums is Staines' sense of humor. There is something nice about having a performer take time out from singing to tell you about a friend who smuggles .flour into Canada in his hub- caps-and gets arrested for it. Surely, this is not a knee slapper, but Bill Staines'. ex- perience on the road has given him the confidence and timing to make him a success-and last Friday~ he proved it . Culture Last Cabaret of the Winter Term! Don.'t Miss It! THURSDAY·, MARCH 5th, 19.8l . Act ·One: the talented KAREN W'ElSGERBER Act Two: the amazing ·MART.IN BROTH.ERS BAND · featuring: Dave· Havi·land, Greg Maye.r, Jim Masterson, Bob Beard, Ruedi. Happle & Pete Wool .Showsat9 an~ 1'1 p.m. Tickets on sale .in Carnegie at 8 p.m. The most appealing element of Staines' style is hiS ability to chatter. He hasbeen on the road often, (He has been appearing at Union since 1971) and the timing of his delivery has Staines music loses more than most by being recorded. Still. he Filnt Announced 'Egg' Extends March Program On Saturday. March 21 at 7 :30 p.m. the film We Are the Guinea Pigs will be shown at Channing Hall, 405 Washington Ave., Albany. This 90-minute color documentary film examines what happened at Three Mile Island two years ago. It also presents an up to date account of the state of the nuclear· power industry. This_showing of We Are the Guinea Pigs is a local event being held in conjunction with the national demonstration to be held in Harrisburg on March 28, the date of the second an- niversary of the Three Mile Island accident. The film is co- sponsored by a coalition of local organizations including the Capital District Anti-Nuclear Alliance, Capital District Committee for Safe Energy and Full Employment, SUNY -A Coalition Against NUkes, Social Responsibilities Council of the Albany Unitarian Church, Knolls Action Project and tbe Citizens Party. For :more information call 438-6314 evenings and weekends. Photo Corner ALBANY: The Empire State Performing Arts Center con- tinues its successful New York State Showcase and extends its March program to include six additional events at the Egg. On March 8, the versatile and talented Roberta Flack will perform in the main theater. De.veloping as a musical talent of the first degree during the 1970s with such hits as \First Time Ever I Saw Your Face\ and \Killing Me Softly,\ Ms. Flack's career is moving into the 1980s with a string of Grammy awards, ·as well as to critical and public acclaim. She will give two performances - one at 4 p.tn. and one at 8 p.m. From March 18 to 21, the Empire State Performing Arts Center will present the very unique Palmer Cody's Tick- Tock Ballroom. A recreation of an evening at Palmer Cody's in Muncie, Ind. in 1927, there will be two singers accompanied by a four-piece band. The band will play original music faithful to the era to a running com- mentary by the band leader. The show will be presented in \SUN DREAMS: 2-81\ an infra-red figure study by Nevin Dubin : ...... . .. .,....~ .. .,., .. . - cabaret style with the audience, which is to be limited to 100 at each performance, seated at tables on the stage. There will be dancing and a cash bar .for the pleasure of the patrons; Performances will. be at 8:30 p.m., March 18 and 19, and at 10 p.m. March 20 and 21. - . The pl~y Widows written by South African playwright Mfundi Vundla will have its worfd ·premiere at the Egg March 20 and 21. Set iii South Africa, the drama explores the destructive impaet of the ap- partheid society upon the lives of three ,women. The play is a production of the Henry Street Settlement's New Federal .Theatre in New York City, originator of the critically acclaimed For Colored, Girls Who Have Considered Suicide When The Rainbow is Enuff. Performances will be at 8 p.m. both evenings. On March 22, the Empire State performing Arts Center will present Thorrrbrake Theatre's The Man Who Shot The Man Who Shot Jesse James. The ''story\ revolves around Robert Ford who parlayed his murder of Jesse James into a Wild West show tour. This rollicking comedy is full of fanciful digressions, petty brawls, daffy monologues, whimsical flashbacks and occasional fiddle-and-guitar musical interludes. There will be performances at 3 p.m. and 8 p;m. Walk Together Children conceived and directed by Ms. Vinie Burrows will be presented March 27. This internationally ~ $1NCf J 937 acclaimed multi-media collage of poetry, prose and song takes a journey through Black time-- back to the African genesis,· to today ,and the reach for identity through the Harlems, the riots and the Martin Luther Kings. There will be two performances of the one-woman show which stars Ms. Burrows;- one at 10':30 a.m. for school groups; and ~. pu.blic performance ~t 8 p.m.' The celebration of New Y ()rk State'·s artistic and ethntc cliversity continues with two performances by the Ballet HiE;panico of New ¥ ork. The 12- member professional company performs a repertory which is a unique blend of Hispanic and American culture. Works by such d.istinguished choreographers as Geoffrey Holder, Tallc;!y Beatty, Alvin Ailey and Jose Coronado present the rhythms of the Caribbean, the passion of Spanish falinenco, the street savvy of the city and the con- temporary expression of American modern dance. Performances will be at 8 p.m., March28 and 3 p.m., March 29. Tickets and information on all events may be obtained by calling the Egg Box Office at 473-3750. Patrons may take advantage of the OffmOff- Broadway Sampler series, whereby a subscription to perfl)rmance of three events, including The .. Man Who Shot The Man Who Shot Jesse James, Widows., and Palmer Cody's Tlck..;Tock Ballroom, may be purchased for the price of two tickers Group rates are also available. lll S BARRETT S.J. SCHENECTADY PH·ONE 377 -'264,2 ar 382~8684 Homestyle Italian Cooking Salad Bar lncl·uded with All Pasta & All Dinners Reasonable prices Plus a 1 0% Diseount to Union College Students with IDs Banquet Facilities Concer· J.T ByB( Singer, so: former and pi:J Taylor left the .spirits last Sat1 his concert Theatre. He WI crowd before ll · · . had tonsilitis, t to quiet him or. the least. ~ ... · Hehadthefu .audience fron: appeared on 1 initial standir subsided,. he . c; the first chordi my Mind.\ Th throughout the long ti!Ile ~fte: Sm~ This past Sl the Union c treated to on perfovmances Everyone knov you know that dant of (you gt House's very Sq~ythe? That used the roma and the balla doors\ of won the good times around the wa set on a col flipping thr1 • II j J l-en

OQNOORDIEJ!!SIS~ March 5, 1981 Page 7 3:tS culture Concert Review: J.T. Touches Union . By BOB FOX Singer, songwriter, per• former and philosopher James Taylorleft the audience in .good . spirits !last Saturday night after his concert at Proctor's Theatre. He warned the sell~ut crowd before he started that he hadtonsilitis, but it didn't seem to quiet him or slow him down in the least. ~ ... · He had the full attention of the audience from the instant he appeared on stage. After the iNitial standing · ovation had subsided,. he . cast a spell with the first chord.Sof \Carolina on my Mind., The spell remained . throughout the show, and for a long time ~fterward. The thing which m.ost im• pressed me about James Taylor was that he appeared very sincere. He established a good rapport with the audience,. he talked and laughed, and was generally at ease with himself onsta.ge. Early on, h~ told a story about Mona, a pig he used to have. (There was so rnucb of her to love, but too llluch of her to take care of.) Taylor's sin· cerity, however, mariifested itself more in his songs than in his between song chatter. His heart is in his rnasic, no doubt about it You could hear him calling out to the past in''Fire and Rain,\ and his happy spirit shone as he rocked through \Steamroller . 11 Smythesongs This past Saturday evening; the Unian community was treated to one of the finest perfor.mances it has .seen--J. T. Everyone knows J.T ... :but did you know that he. is a descen~ dant of (you guessed it) Smythe House'.s very own Eustas P. SJllythe? 'That's right! Eustas used the romance of the guitar and the ballad to . \open the doors\ of women's hearts. Oh, the good times We've had sitting around the warm crackling TV set on a cold winter's eve flipping thru the Smythe Family albwn. I can see Eustas now, bag of seeds hung fromhis belt and his big i2-string slung over. his shoul.der, 'Being a mus1c and art enthusiast, Eustas made sure to pass down his masterful skill~ to his descendents. · Now that we've said what we · wanted to say, (basically, that Eustas was a musical genius as exemplified by '\show«:!ring'') we want to wish everyone lots of luck on their finals and we'll see you down in Fort Srnythedale this vacation. Interested in Volunteerism? Join Union's New Volunteer Organization Sign-up Now in. the Student Affairs otfice for next term PARENTS . WEEKEND MAYJ - 3 lemind Your Pareats l The show began with just - James and his guitar. For a few songs, he gave the audience goose bumps by his mere presence; then, out of nowhere, he had .James Taylor singing backup vocals. That's right, in the spotlight appeared a reel to reel tape deck, ··and he sang backup vocals for himself. Interesting and innovative, not to mention that it sounded great. Little by little, a band took shape around :him, and the sound .filled in accordingly. The best moments .of the concert we11e during \The Secret 0' Life,\ when James e seemed to- be preaching that .... \the secret of life is enjoying a the passage ·of ti.Jne,\ and E during the encore (You Can --. Close Your Eyes). It's okay, we E can close our eyes, we can sing- 0 - his songs when he's gone. Thank o you, James Taylor, for the -5. concert, for your thoughts, and above all, for your music. J.T. during one of the slower numbers. \His heart is in his mus'ic.\ Blue Skies Over Union: Gear Up for Fl~rida By D. BOOTH pants and a buttondown shirt are necessary. Naturally, suntan oil should be included. I recommend baby oil because of the way that it bakes into the skin while· keeping it moist during tanning. The first few days in the sun should be tempered by caution; Sl.Ulburn is not pleasant, particularly when one wishes to indulge in any form of contact sport. However, if one is a sportsman, be sure to take any equipment necessary for the sport to be smirking. One of the best lines to remember is \I'm not in· - terested .in picking you up! I'm picking you out.\ In the minds of all men there are certain words which can- jure up images of excitement and exotic fant~sies: Paris, London, Hong Kong, Camelot .. . But the word which endures in each student's mind as the ultimate in adventure is Florida. This magical place is not just a southern sQ1te, it is a state of mind where unguarded fantasies unfurl at .every cor- ner. For a few short weeks in the spring, the senior citizens head for the Gulf to make way for the influx of cars bearing thousands of college students. Unfortunately, without some prior sort of experience, most _ indulged in. Another great way to pick up somebody is to sit you by the pool with a picnic basket of lots of liquor, ice, and extra glasses. The more one has to share, the more people one can meet. The real Florida drink is still the one which Hemingway introduced from his, Key West home.: the Daquiri. Yet all sorts of iced drinkS are popular. One of the better ones served is the Lei Voni Volcano, a drink. composed of pineapple juice, papaya juice, and rum, served over ice in a coconut. · students are at a loss in Florida. They may have a good time, but they are perhaps at a loss as to how to make the most of their fantasy vacation. The first step is to know what to pack. In general, people are notorious . overpackers. At the very most there are only 14 days of vacation (if one has no finals), so there is really no need to pack a lot of clothing. For days on the beach, a swqnsuit and a couple pairs of shorts .. are really all that are ' needed. Take a t-shirt but remember that lining the beach front are shops where one can purchase t·shirts of all types with all sorts of things on them. For evening wear, a long pair of Happy B-day 3/7/81 from 3/10 TYPING 85c/page Fast, professional and accu.rate -typing service Pick-up and delivery possible at additional cost. .PHONE 393·1209 There are endless lists of things to do while in Florida; deep sea fishing, snorkeling, skin diving, swimming, sun- bathing, shell hWlting, etc. But let's face the facts-the majority of people go to Florida for rest and relaxation, which for a vast number means picking up gorgeous guys-girls in bikinis. It is a popular misconception that this is easy to do. Remember that there is not going to be any time to \get to know\ a person; it is meet 'em and take 'em home. Which means that the physical is fairly . important. Rather obviously, if one is a well-built member of either sex, one is not going to have any problems. It is for the not-so- well endowed that the following is written. The first piece of advice is to be romantic. It has been Baid that \women love a man who spends a lot of money on them, but flowers work almost as well.\ Not that J.suggest giving anyone on the beach flowers, but the idea behind the quote remains. In short, be dashing and debonair._ Cultivate the habit of flashing dazzling smiles with wide eyes, to show interest and attentiveness. For evenings, learn to stare. Not a rude stare, like that of the country boy in the big city, but a • stare of naked desire. Learn to raise one eyebrow whilst One of the greatest things about Florida is Disneyworld. Disneyworld is a playground .for adults. Disneyworld is also not a good place to make a pick-up. If one desired company other than that with which one came to Florida, bring the guest along. It is obvious that Disneyworld has a great amusement park, yet many people are unaware of its more romantic ad'\ antages. Disneyworld has tV\o Jakes (manmade), and Email sailboats and motor l: •)at~ can be rented. Reservat ons are taken daily for the various dinners, such as. dinner in the castle, the Hawaiian I,uau, the Pioneer Hall Floor ~how, the Moonlight Paddlewhe• ·1 Cruise, and dinner and dane' 1g at the Top of the World. Di~neyworld is worth at least a full day and night, but one could easily spend a week there. But the most important thing to remember is that Florida is a dream, a fantasy, Indulge it to the fullest. Rise early to sun along the beach. Play hard all day, party hearty at night. If it feels good, do it. Always keep in mind that Florida is a one-time experience. Each year the spirit of the place changes. So make the most of it. Important_: Concordiensis Staff Meeting Monday, April 6, 7 p.m :, fourth floor Carnegie

Page 8 BULLETIN BOARD Campus Ministry Mass-.- Sunday, March 8th--Rev. Leo O'Brien, Sunday, March 15th- Jay Morane. A special exhibition and. sale of Original Graphic Art wtll be presented on Thursday, Match 5, 1981 at Carnegie Hall from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Today's technology has prepared us to travel into outer space and land on the moon; yet when it comes to the earth's inner space, the ocean, the state of art for operating in this en- vironment is still relatively primitive. progress . OCEAN ENGINEERING 4:00PM Thursday, 5 March 1981 Butterfield Hall Room300 A Presentation by CDR Don Wells, Civil Engineer Corps, US NAVY. Director of Ocean Facilities Program Office, Navy Facilities Engineering Command. This is sponsored by Student Chapter of American Society of Civil Engineers. Professional typing and editing. Typeset quality. $1 per page. Bob Crofts days-370-7200 • or eves-374-7112. P. T. BARNUM AND ClEVER HANS presents A lecture on Animal Linguistics by Prof~ssor Thomas Sebeok of the National Humanities Center and Indiana University. This will be on Thursday, March 12, 1981 at 8:00P.M. in Humanities 115, Union College. There will be a meeting on Wed., March 11th for the men and women's outdoor field and track team at 7:00p.m. in The Boock \U\ room in Alumni Gym. Will the person or persons who removed all the U.S. College Sponsored Study Abroad books from the Terms Abroad office please return them at once. These books are our only source of information for study abroad possibilities other than those at Union, and students are being deprived of their use. The Departments of Com- puter Science and Philosophy are pleased to invite you to a Colloquium MAKING ROOM FOR MATHEMATICS IN THE PHILOSOPHY OF MATHEMATICS by Professor Thomas Tymoczko of Smith College on Friday, March 6 in Humanities 213 at 3:30 p.m. Refreshments in the Faculty Lounge following the Colloquium. PERSONALS Ronny S.-~Not even your \friend\ will tell you, but your aftershave is in reality skunk scent. Shalom SDT-Your sister in the Holy Land Ex 352-D-SHALOM! Miss ya a ton! From the Kibbutznik Blitzkreig!!! Shalom Smythe-F .R. Special Hi's to Betsy, Mary, Stacey, Pam, Kim, Randi, Leanna, Nancy, Eileen. :From F.R. OONOORDIENSIS, March 5, 1981 Dear PSK,....We want to see · some basketball and volleyball domination-by definition. Love .Ui Dear Psk T-abroaders, Have . fun. We'll miss ya! Love, PSK Happy Birthday Sue, Love Stephie, Patty, Sue· and Jenny PSK-Thanks for a terrific term-remember to dominate this spring! Take care and keep in touch.-Luv your big Sis Dear Lumpy-All work and no play? Not for long. Incest is best. Love cous DearER, We've come a long way from the couch-Love js Dear Eric & Bambi, you were both great in the show~ Love J&D Dear Eddie, you were great behind the curtains. Love J&D Dear Fred & Rich, Congratulations! 265:. the new power suite! Love LS Hey Excite-able boy, It wasn't easy, but real nice, Thanks for the ffort. We ap- preciate ya! J· & D PSK Rooks, yo11 still have a ways to go! ! ! ! Cutter: We love the color red; how about a KISS?! Love & Kisses from, L & C Japinus Whinus: Your mother called, we told her you were in the shower and then we disconnected the phone. Lazelle-You took care of the red sweater but what happened to the big ten inches?! love, W J J eariine--Can I peel the TIGER? Who the hell is lefty Nickerson?! Hey Squatty, do you want to hear a cute one? from, The smart ass fre~hman Chippus: FO.AD Love you know who, ' , together. ·Another winter has passed and we're working on our second spring. I'm Mppy and I love you-( even though I find it hard to eat or speak for some strange reason. Maybe i.f I drink some water . . . ) Jewel Dear Friends: Thank you for putting up with me. Don't worry, it'll get worse. Rach~l. BENT•-I appreciate your' understanding.. B¥ .the :way, what finally happene<l' to the old woman in the shoe? Was she getting Social Secmity? How about telling me the rest this weekend. RIM Mary .. ~You'te a wonderful roomie-thanks for everything. Have a wonderful spring~get Psyced for Wendell--love P.V. K.M., Look at us we're walking, looking at u.s we're talking . . . Thanks again, it worked! Dear Sharon: I'm surprised you can't figure out who I am .. Dear Ellen G: Thank you .for the splash. Now, there isn't a sole who could say that I have a dry personality! Sincerely yours, H20 Hey Irwin: Keep the pace. You're in double figures of one sort or another. Sincerely, Poopsie Dan: I heard that you are a real tiger once anyone gets to know you. Please . grcwl for me!!!!!! Your buddy pal A.D.-A sweater ·and a tur- tleneck-not all 30 through- maybe someday-C. Bogart, It's been two months. Let's celebrate ... Take me to the casbah!! We'll split a diet pepsi! ILU-Love, Sno Dear MBM, Happy 21st Birth- day. Have a good one! Love, JWD MEGAN-I've got my eye on you. E.C. and L~H. keep your dancing shoes on!!! P.N. together are over soon, but otir . . special. friendship isn't. ------~-----,.;...,.- :K.--..I .S.L. Y .M, Y .M. T.A..F .•, Cary-Did you find your uvula . but ... (sorry). Y.E.L.B.L. yet?-Munch · Hey Cast!-miss T.B. much? Bud-Are you guilty because · HE=H:::....! --_,....---~­ you got a personal? Now you , have two-Bud Bilb-.Don't tr:y to find out • from Bo because I could. always · tell him what you told me about you·know•what! Vicko and Hoff:...Could you just stand over there so that I can take a picture? ! Valerie--Remember the book!--M. M.G.-Not only am I''fallin.\' I think I felL I.L.Y. Size 6-:pH, OH! ! M.F.D.J .• ..;Thanks for the typing tunes. I'll never forget '· 'em. J.C.--You're still B.E. & Barrytone leader-Haven't you developed a fondness .• for the females yet? · FOR SALE - 71 Cot~gar, Good. Running Condition, New Brakes, New Transmission, AM.,FM. Must Sell, Price Negotiable. 382·9688 ask for Larry or visit Alpha Delta Phi. ROOMS Six room aJmrtment available for 1981-82 academic year. Two blocks from campus, 3 bedrooms, nicely furnished, appliances and garage in- cluded. $230 per month without utilities. Call 372-3226. Summer subletting available, around campus \ English Com-petitions Announced The Department of English invites the submission .of entries in the following writing com- petitions. The deadline for submission is .Friday, April 3. The Allen Essay Prize: awarded_,... to seniors in. ~ny department for non-fiction essays. . The writing may be a chapter from a thesis, a revised term paper, an essay written specifically for submission, etc. No limits of length are specified, but custom suggests a lower limit of six to eight pages, and an upper ~t of perhaps 30. The Van Orden Prize: for freshmen (in any department) excelling in English com- , position. area of Purchasing, the ' Management Association of Eastern New York will award two scholarships in the amount of $650 each for the 1981-1982 academic year: Additionally, each award includes a one-year dues-free membership in the Purchasing Management Association of Eastern New York, and the opportunity to attend; at no cost, all educational meetings and seminars sponsored by the Association. To be eligible, the student must be enrolled on a full-time basis in a local college or t university, at the level of junior or above during the academic year· 1981-1982. Sons or daughters of Association members are also encouraged to apply, regardless of the college or university attended. Bilbo and Bud--It just wouldn't have been the same without you. Our Union days · The Yudis Prize: for the Interest or potential interest in a career in Purchasing as evidenced by the student ap· plication, academic per· formance as indicated by an official college transcript., and faculty recommendation, as jUdged by the Scholars~ip Committee of the · Purchasmg Management Association of Eastern New York. LCL-It's over and we're still \' , 4re~ c~lendar FILM March 7- The Albany Public Library will present the family film: THOSE DARING YOUNG MEN IN THEIR JAUNTY JALOPIES· shown at 10 a.m. in the Delaware Branch Library, 328 Delaware A venue. For more information, call 449-3380. March 8 - The family fihn WILLY WONKA AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY begins at 2 p.m. in the Main · Library, 161 Washington Avenue. For more information, call 270-2344. MUSIC March 6 - Internationally acclaimed Flamenco Guitarist Carlos Montoya will bring the music of his native Spain to Cohoes Music Hall at 8 p.m. For further information, call 237- . 5242. March 6 -- \St. Paul,\ the oratorio by Felix Mendelssohn, will be presented by the Capitol Hill Choral Society at 8 p.m. in the Philip Schuy,ler Concert Hall on North Lake Avenue, Albany. For more infvrmation, call 449·7223. · March 9 - Russell Sage College will present the film ''Oliver\ at 7 and 9:30 p.m. in THEATER the Schacht Fine Arts Center. For more information, call 270. March 6 to 8 - Russell Sage College will host the play \Le . 23 ~~rch 10 _ The Junior Bourgeous Gentilhomme,\ a b will - t comedy by Moliere. The play College of AI any presen will be presented at the James the film \The Rose\ at the L. Meader l..ittle Theater at 8 ~~~~ta~e~1~f5 r:,~~t~:~ p.m., ·March 6 and 7 and at 2 p.m. For more information, call p.m. a.nd 8 p.m. on March 8. For \.270-2344. · more mformation, call 27().o2344:..J student in any class who has produced the best piece of prose fiction. 1 The Department also supervises and judges entries for the Academy cf American Poets Prize, awarded annually for the best _poem by a Union undergraduate. · Each prize entcy should be labeled with a pseudonym on both the paper and an attached sealJ:d envelope; inside the envelope should be the student's real name and address. All of this should be placed in a large manila envelope marked with the name of the competition for which it is being subnlitted. The envelope should be delivered to the Department office in Humanities 212, no later than Friday, April 3. Any questions about these competitions should be directed to Prof. Brenda Wineapple in the Humanities Building (telephone 6210). Scho.l~rships Available To encourage college students interested in Business Administr·ation and related fields to consider careers in the Awards are to be presented at the Association'.s Annual Meeting on May 21. Awards are intended to . be used for educationalexpensesduring the 1981-1982 academic year. The student and the school will be -notified of the award decisions on or about May 1. To apply for the award, the student should obtain an lap- plication form from the · Financial Aid Office before Arpill5. WRUC, Elects New Board The following studen=we e elec.ted ·last week t~ WRU 's executive board: ral Manager, Jeff Mitchell; Alan Goldberg, Progral!l Manager; Bill Singer, Technical manager; Gene Sawa, ausiness Manager; and -Jtllie Wildnlan, Promotion Manager. These people were \elected .. by mem· bers of WRUC and will run the station starting next term for a one-year period. On the sarne night the new WRUC con· stitution was also ratified. AnY questions~ If so, drop by the station. Anlm He '·~ .- . Tuition Undergrl Arts an Engine GraduatE IAMCoui Six: Year . 198l·grac study. FR 134- SP 10--B sH n-v LT 62-'I PUY 11· PHY 13- PS 10--C PS il-C PS 12-C PS GO..F PSY·2~ PSY 31- SOC 22- . ST 1o-.I1 AM 146- AM 210- AM 212- AM 226- AM 245- AM 25(1- AM 255- ,ST 201- ACP 20: ACP 21: ACP 24! ACP 251 ACP 25! ACP 381

OONCORDIENSIS, March 5, 1981 ures An lmpo~sioned ·plea: Help Seniors This Spring By JtJDI LEE CHERVENAK It's almost spring term, final exams will soon 'be over, and vacation is approaching. Hurrah! Regardless of the pressure of the ninth week's trials and tribulations that we are trying so hard not to suc- cumb to, it is· not too early to .begin planning activities for spring term. A new activity to appear on campus this Spring · will deal with students volun- teering their time and talent to work with older people in the Schenectady community. as a person ·gets older. But, this is no reason to dUsregard the accruement of positive characteristics Which ac- company old age. When a 45- year-old p.erson develops heart failure and needs a pacemaker to survive, is he considered to be any less of a person? When a young child suffers from teething and diaper rash, are his other qualities ignored? I think not. Therefore, why should older people be con- sidered iri a category all their '- own? tl.l <J) This new activity to be on e campus this spring will be an co ongoing student organization £ with faculty and academic ~ support, as· well as student c: backing. Involved faculty and .E administration 1 include Willard 0 Roth, Assoc1ate Dean . of o Undergraduate Studies, Robert -a H. Kellett, Dean· of Students, Mike Andolina, Assistant Dean Senior citizens play in concert orchestra Page 9 When one thinks of an older· person, one tends to shy away from getting involved with him or her, because it may remind one of his or her mortality. In · our youth oriented society, we tend to neglect those who are older and shower all of our attention on . those, who are younger. This is without doubt an absurd prejqcice which musf be rectified. Older people have so much to offer us that it is really hard to define this new activity as a volunteer service because this denote~ only our helping others. However, m more ways than one, this is not the case. Should older people be looked at as \diseased persons\? It is true that physical deterioration (such as, loss of strength and declining lung capacity oc-curs of Students, and Jane Wood, Career-Advisor-Student Mfairs. Some .areas open fer student involvement include: 1) Visiting and providing companionship to homebound . senior citizens or to those in nursing homes. 2) Organizing game~, musical programs and movies. · 3) Working with mentally retarded adults. 4) Playing pool with the residents of a retirement center. 5) Working in the probation· department. 6) Working with inmates .of the Schenectady County Jail. 7) Helping those facing a life- threatening illness. 8) Working on nutrition programs. 9) Assisting with birthday and holiday parties. 10) Assisting to show slides of trips, doing art presentations, talking about plays, reading poetry, Jommg in wheelchair square dancing. 11) Assisting in organizing senior citizens to play in a concert orchestra. 12) Playing piano, leading sing-alon.gs, organizing recreational activities, card ' games, programs, and field trips for seniors at meal sites. 13) Assisting with various arts and crafts projects. The typeof student who would be interested in Union'~? new organization is one who really cares about others, is willing to share some time and ex- perience, is interested in meeting people, wants contacts and references for future career aspirations, wants to get ex- perience or exposure to future interests or career, or just wants to get off campus and into the community. Anyone in- terested in getting involved in this new organization can contact Mike Andolina at 6061. ,.~ ,- . ~~~. ··S'UM.MER SESSION 1981 Classes .Begin Week of Jun-e 15 Tuition Undergraduate Arts and Sciences Engineering and Computer Science Graduate lAM Courses Six Year MedEd ' $375 400 ·440 345 Tuition based on 1981-82 Full- Ye~u; Tuition 198l'graduates will rec~ive two free courses that can be applied toward sUinmer study. FR 134~The French Language 1n Practical Use li-McDermott SP 10--Basic Spanish ]1-Vinick SH 11-Vinick LT 62-The Artist as Hero: European Fiction, 1830-1914-Thomas PHY 11-lntroduction to Physics I-C. Jones PHY 13--Introduction to Physics II-Titus PS tO-Contemporary Political Analysis-Brown PS it-Contemporary American Politics.-Underwood PS 12-Contemporary International Polit~cs-Kr?sby PS Go-Policy-:Making and American Socte~y-Tuhnarch .PSY 24:--Social Psycpology-Downing PSY 31-Abnormal Fsychology-Nydegger SOC 22--Social Problems and Social Policy-Weiner · ST to-Introduction to Statistics-Schmidt Administration and Management AM 14o-Introduction to Comp~ters in Management-Yazici AM 210-Financial Accounting-Hurley AM 212-Management Control Systems-Kauth . . . AM 220-Controlling Forces in American Econoiilic Development-F:mkelstem AM 245-Management Information Systems-sawcbuk AM 250-0rganization Theory--Schneller AM 255-Manpower Policy-Thimm · · ~ST 201-lntroduction to Probability and ~tatistics-Delaney Health Studies ACJ,> 203..,.Statistical Methods in Health-Lambrinos ACP 212-Management Control Systems-Kauth ACP 245-Management Information Systems--Sawchuk ACP 250-0rganization Theory--Schneller ACP 255-Manpower Policy-Thimm ACP 380-Health Systems Policy and Planning-Jack Six Year Medical Education Program BIO 24-Genetics and Evolution-Butzel, Boyer BIO 154--Chordate Embryology-B. Boyer CHM 3~0rganic Chemistry II -8heffer CHM 40-Introduction to Physics !--Schaefer, Weick PHY 11-Mammalian Anatomy MED 45-Health and Human Values-8chneller MED 46-Health and Human Values: Independent Research-8chneller ART 12-Design FWldamentals--Steckler ART 17-Photography-Benjamin . ART 20-Introduction to Art History I-Freund ART 26-Relief Printmaking--Steckler BIO 24-Genetics and Evolution-Butzel, Boyer BIO 80-Practicum in Hospital Health Care-Roth BIO 154-Chordate Embryology-B. Boyer . CHM 32-0rganic Chemistry II -sheffer CHM 40-Quantitative Chemistry--Schaefer, Weick CS 15-Introduction to Computer Programming-8chwarz CS 18-lntroduction to Computer Organizatian--Staff CS 34-COBOL and Information Processing--Staff CS 37~tructured Programming--Staff CS 130-Data Structures-G. Williams ECO tO-Elementary Economics-Kershner ECO 11-Elementary Economics--Ginsberg ECO 141~Monetary Economics-Phaup ECO 144-lnternational Economics-Phaup EE 30-Sy~tem Theory 1-Craig EE 146-Digital Signal Processing-Gajjar ES to-Mechanics, I -Panlilio ES 20--Mechanics II-Milligan ES 26-Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer--Shanebrook ES 41-Electric Circuits 1-Kump ES 48-lntroduction to Semiconductor Devices and Circuits-Hassib EGL 13-Creative Writing Workshop I-Bradish EGL 19-Major English Authors-Freund EGL 47-Contemporary Drama-Bradish EGL 69-Modern British Fiction-P. Allen EGL 74-The American Short Story-P. Allen EGL 76-The American Novel li-P. Allen HST 19-Modern America: The New Deal and After-Jonas HST 44-A Survey of Modern Europe, 1715-1945-Berk HST 74-Islamlc Civilization:-Yadegari MTH 01-Mathematics Refresher: Pre-Calculus (non-credit)-Muckenfuss MTH to-Calculus I--Staff l4TH llC-Analytic Geometry and Calculus--Staff MTH 12-Calculus II --Staff MTH 14-Calculus III-Staff MTH 28-Probability-Staff MTH 30-0rdinary Differential Equations-Staff MTH 41-Linear Algebra--Staff ~ •t\ t 'Vt;., ... .,..:o< .:...-.r.. •. ~·~\>:',._.It_ ~~~yt'.....-~· 1t. 0(.-f.,.........: :t. •• \'~\ ~~-·\\'·\' 't .,'.W•oi>•IJO' 't,·_,,'of ..... .,.,'li>...,\\\'-1*'\\\'~ .. ·~Vt.\'. ... l.·a-~\i-J

Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS 1 lrr-arch 5, 1981 Verm·ont Statehouse: Learn to Lead ByJOEYBECKERMAN ~!~rn~~·M:s~e:::~oret~£! ·R .. ob .. b.· .i_:n. s St.u. d.' ies Building. ·. This past weekend the New leader than a lecturer. In fact, York State Student Leader participating students said the A g~eat b~~ng tS m s?me !Yas draftedm response t.o a a complete inventory· Institute took place at Skidmore format used was the con- waY;s like a hyrng orgamsm, Report and Recommemlatlons . cataloguing every object .in College. The .four Union ference's biggest plus. subJect to gr~wth ~11d deca~,\ to the Vepnont State. Ho~.~ ev~ry room. fbe resulting in· . students who parUcipated Everyone was involved in .group says art h1stor1an 1>amel Preservation Committee, formation formed the basis for were: junior Bob Brewster and (the size ranged from two to 2D) Robbins. \But a buildings has prepared by Robbins as .a the book and contributed to a sophomores Sheila Walsh, Gary activities. These activities a.t ~east one. adva!lta&e over ·~ special consultant to t~e State plan for en:lu~ncing the State Chadick, and Mike Perlin. taught one how to relax a tense hvmg . ·?emg: with. un- House. It propos~s that fhe sta!e House's secondary function as a , Fifteen to 20 colleges :par- group and bring it together. derstandmg and contmuous of Vermont appomt a curator m public musewn. ticipatedin the conference. The care, it can be kept a thing of order to .preserve the esthetic Vermont Governor Richard • following is a discussion of what Walsh said that the con- unchan~ing quality.\ . integ.rity of the capitol building Snelling has called Robbins' • took place as described by ference was '''so diverse you Robbms, May. I.C Baker and Its contents. . . . book ''a very · very valuable ·. Sheila Walsh. never got bore<t.\ She went on Professor ·of the Arts here ~nd \Historians of art ought to contribution to' the state.\ The students exchanged ideas to say that it was a very wor- chairman of the College Arts take interest in the monuments · about student government and thwhile experience and Department, isthe author of the of the area in which they-live,\ Robbins has been a· Natjonal , orientation. By learning how recommends that Union send first complete history and guide Robbins says in discussing the Endowment of the Humanities · other schools aperate, students students to the conference next to the Vermont State House, subject of his book and report. Senior Fellow and · a learned how the weakness of year. In conclusion, Sheila said The Vermont State Hnuse: A The Vermont State House, he Guggenlieim Fellow. As an their own school could be she learned that,. '''although we History and Guide. . says, is \the premiere building original member of the Nationa · overcome by iricorporating the don't run the school, compared In addition, Robbi11s testified and museum in the state of Endowment of the Arts strong points of another college. to some colleges we (the last month an a bill before .the Vermont.\ museum program, he. was in- The conference leader was students. her.e) have a lot (){ Vermont Senate Committee on A resident of Braintree, Vt., strumental in designing several sociologist Elliot Masie. ·input.\ Institutions. The bill, No. 101, for the past 13 years, Robbins of the programs. that \'now r-...:;:...-:;;:-;::::~::-::==::~~~=:-:==:-:-:~:-:::=~::-:-==::----::::-:::----_:_---'-_._.:, headed a research team that receive government support. WE SHOWED ~OU THE WAY IT WAS! NOW, HERE'S HOW IT .S\IOUL~ HAVE BEEN... ~ began studying Vermont's He has been a consultant for the capitol building in the summer New York State M:useum, the of 1979. Research into the Whitney Museum ·Of American history of the State House and Art, the Houston Museum of its two predecessors, as well as · Fine Arts, and for the art background on the decorative departments of Rutgers, and fine arts housed in the Dalhousie, and Northwestern building, was supplemented by universities. Attention Spring Term Abroad Students applying for 11 fRIENtJS·AND AFFILIATES, LET'5 KEEP A GOOD THING GOING ... \ Orientation Advisor, contact Mike Andolina * Gatesmen· Applications* will be avail~ble Monday, March 16th in the brand new Stanley 'R. Becker Hall - alias admissions office. They should be returned by Friday, April 3rd .. Contact Ellen Jetto in the admissions office if you will be on a Spring Term abroad. Would you Uke ~o meet a reporter from the Washington Post? Robert Levey will be speaking on \Co~temporory Problems in Modern Journal ism'' Thurs., March 5, 4:30p.m. Strauss Lounge Dutch Hollow Pub This Saturday at the Pub: St. Patrick's Day Party 9 • ? Iced Teas $2.25 Green Beer · .. 30c a glass Check for Green. Mellon Liquer Drin~ Specials- Friday Night: Orgasms $2.00 464 State St. we deliver Chocolate Orgasms $2.25 Schenectady 374-1888 .. Jim and Julie- Thanks fo:r fhe Memories!- in Student Affairs (370-6061) Prior to. vacation! .. THE MOST SOPHISTICATED TRAINING GROUND FOR NUCLEAR ENGINEERING . . ISN'T ON THE GROUND. It's on a Navy ship, The Navy has more experi· ence with nuclear power than anyone else in Aruerica,. To date, over 1,900 reactDr·y_ears of nuclear power ex.perience. With a nuclear program like that, the Navy has developed the most comprehensive and sophisti- cated nuclear t~aining available. First, you'll get.a full year of advanced technical training. Outside of the Navy this pro· gram would cost you thousands. In the Navy, we pay you. - As a commissioned officer, you'll have immediate decision- making authority supervising highly trained personnel while operating the most sophisti- cated nuclear propulsion plants ever developed. You get impor- tant management responsi· bility fast. Because, in the Navy, as your knowledge gxows, so does your responsibility. So if you're majoring in math, engineering, or the physical sciences, ~end in the coupon. And head for the most sophisti· c1:1ted training ground fop nu- clear engineering ... the Navy. ~-~--~----'------, I NAVY OPPOR'I:ONJTY . c 1 90 !' INFORMATION CENTER 1 P.O. BOX 5000, Clifton, NJ 07012 1 I ·= Yes. rm ·interesteddn becoming a ~avy I Officer. Send.memore information.I-0NI I :>lome I I Fit<ll IPieaSP;Printl L~t~! I I Addre<>s I I Ctt\ StatE>--ZlP- J I Age-_. _ tCollcgt>/l'mverslt\ I· I :j:Gtndua•:on Date __ OG~A I ~6~1aJorJ:\Iinur I I Phone ~·umber . I iAro11 COdt'i \B~>~I Tuli.L' 1n Cb.ll I Th1<> ts f<•r gen('ral rccr.uJt:nrnt mf~tm6t1on You I I do not h1~\£' to furnish anv of th{> mformatJon t'('qUest{>d Of C'?Urs~. t h'\' 'more ~·e ltno1\. th{' more f I W(' can lwlp you determirw the kmds of ~a,-y. I pdsitions for which ybu qualify C N 318 1 L....., __ .. ____ ... ______ .__... NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. pc Coach Meaghe O.T. A C~ By DAVE With playoff ti too-distant hod regular season , · ding down. Wh: has produced · moments, the p1 lacking In rna . contrast, the c< enjoying a m< season, with a: schools having r1 the national < Maybe it i$ ab owners took a cl college gall\e, E rules. They coul Perhaps the deserves the rt11 the 24-second c device takes aw of the strategJ coaches. Team: down the court, 1 shot off. A pas concept. Team 1 more infreque1 Many college cr without a shot c1 turn into bori stalling. {I diSl · pease both sidE one-minute sho ball would rett · game and se11 become a viabl4 for opposing coa with. The nex:t st· stalhnent of zan · io..to the pros. Tl . to-man defenSE Players are rr. with how many going to sc01 preventing th1 scoring. The 1 zone defe.nses welcome strate to the pro game would also be contain the big been dominatir basketball. (F ~oubt this,. watcl Job the Notl'l defense did ~ Sampson.) The marketin one area for · Individuals are teams. After all team game-fiv1 supporting _ bell the rule change: Would be a cata: ~he way profess Is advertised. The facts are basketball a declining. Coup the fact that col continue to r ratings than th terparts. It is league owners the situation is hand. A quick c· to alleviate the

OONOOBDIENSIS, March 5, 1981 Page 11 po.rts. Season Preview: Lacrosse to G·o South ByLARRYSALBERG The 1981 edition of the Union <:;ollege lacrosse team began preparation two weeks ago for a journey that will probably end with an invitation to the NCAA Division III playoffs. With all but two starters returning from last year\s 6-8 .squad, the Up- coming season is filled with high hopes and unfettered optimism from everyone connected with the team. On March 20, the Union ''Running\ Dutchmen begin OJach Meagher instructs laxmen ·O.T. A College Education. By DAVE RUDEN With playoff time on the not- too-distant horizon; the NBA regular season, is finally win- . ding down. While this season bas produced many exciting moments, the pro game is still lacking in many areas. In contrast, the college game is enjoying a most successful season, with as many as 15 schools having realistic shots at the national championship. Maybe it i$. about tW1e NBA owners took a closer look at the college gllll\e, especially their rules. They could learn a lot. Perhaps the concept that deserves the most attention is the 24-second clock. this prq device takes away a great deal of the strategy available to coaches. Teams race up and down the court, rushing to get a shot off. A pass is a foreign concept. Team play is an even more infrequent occurrence. Many college critics argue that without a Shot clock, games will turn into boring affairs of stalling. {I disagree.) To ap- pease both sides, I propose a one-minute shot clock. Team · ball would return 'to the pro game and semi-stalls would become a viable strategic ploy for opposing coaches to contend with. The next step is the in- stalhnent of zone defenses back into the pros. 'J'he alleged man- to-man defense is a farce. Players are more concerned with how many points they are going to score instead of preventing their man from scoring. The many different zone defe.nses would be a welcome strategic instrument to the pro game. Zone defenses Would also be a way to help contain the big men that have been dominating professional basketball. (For those who ~oubt this,. watch a replay of the Job the Notre Dame zone defense did against Ralph Sampson.) The marketing of the NBA is one area for improvement. Individuals are advertised over teams. After all, basketball is a team game-five starters and a supporting _ bench. Hopefully, the rule changes proposed here Would be a catalyst in changing !he way professional basketball Is advertised. . The facts are in. Professional basketball attendance is declining. Coupled with this is the f?ct that college broadcasts co~ttnue to receive higher ratmgs than their NBA coun- terparts. It is time for the league owners to realize that ~he situation is getting out of and. A quick change is needed to alleviate the situation. It is time for the NBA to get a college education. Though the task is for- midable, here are some · predictions for the NCAA playoffs. Look for the ex- perienced teams like Oregon State and DePaul to do well. If Notre Dame can avoid con· Take a break centration lapses in the early rounds, they could be a factor. Look for Virginia to get knocked off early. The strain of the ACC tournament, along with the cantainment of Ralph Sampson, should do them in. Possible sleepers are Iowa, Kentucky, Arizona State and Louisville (which has come on strong after an early season slump). In the end, I like DePaul. • • • Here's a break! \A l.eetle Taste of Mexico\ in Schenectady invites you to its New Location at 833 McClellan St., Sche1nectady (near corner of Eastern Parkway & McCI.) ·With a· com.plete line of Mexican-American food·s to satisfy your pre-excim iitters! Here's a sample of good things you'll find here: · •• • • • ••• • • • • • • MEXICAN GRUB • • •• •• t • •• • • • Tortilla Chips .................. $.49 Gazpacho (Vegetable Soup ·Avocado Dip With Tortilla Chips ..• 89 served cold) ............... S.'Ts Rice .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. . . . .... so T~co (Hard or soft shell, Bean Tostada or Nachos . .. . . .. .. . .... 80 or Beef) . ;...- . . .. .. .. . .75 Beans (Frijoles) .. . . . .. . .. . .. .70 Chili . . . _ .............. 99 Enchilada (Beef or Cheese) ........ 75 With Rice . . . . . . . .. .. . . . l.lS Tamale .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. ..... , .. 1.05 With 2 Corn Tortillas ............ 1.09 Bcrrito (Bean) . . . . . . . . . . . ..• 95 En pinata (Apple or Pineapple) ....• 65 · Mixed ....•......................... 1.30 Sopaipillas (Fried Dough - All ME at...... . .. .. .. .. . .. . . . .. 1.30 Sugar Honey) . .. _ . . . . . .. . . . .65 discount on all purchases. This offer is good til the end of I their odyssey with the annual southern spring trip. First stop for the taxmen will be in Roanoke,Va., for a scrimmage against the Roanoke Valley Lacrosse Club on March 21. ·From there, the squad travels to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. While there, they will play Georgia Tech in its first regular-season challenge of the year. Head Coach Fran Meagher is also trying to line up a scrimmage with Team Chapel Hill, a club team made up mostly of graduates from area colleges. When the Dutchmen leave North Carolina, they will head back to Virginia for a rematch with William and Mary. Last season, W & M intimidated the Dutchmen and went on to an 18- 6 romp. That same night, the team will travel to Washington, D.C., for the last leg of the trip. On Saturday afternoon, the 28th, the squad faces the Georgetown Hoyas in the final game of the tour. Union lacrosse has a long tradition as a winner. This year's team takes special pride in the tradition and hopes that the students· and faculty will also. The team has strong leadership from Captains Sean Durham, Mark Sackerson and Rob Fischrnann. In addition, tlie team is lucky to have two of the finest young coaches in the area in Fran Meagher and Keith Ellement. The supporting cast consists of a small, quibk, smart attack. On the other end is a big experienced defense that looks like it's going to be the mainstay of this team. Rounding out the squad is the all-important midfield. This was the team's weakest link last year, but, it seems that :things will be a lot different this year. The lacrosse schedule ap- pears to be one of the toughest in Division III this year. In order :lior this team to be suc- cessful, hustle, hitting and conditioning must be the watchm words. Domino's wants to make studying a treat! Take a study or exam break with one of our mouth-watering pizzasl let us do your cooking, especially with finals around the so~ OFF Any Size Pizza $1.00 Off 1 I Any one item pizza 1 c: 0 a. ;:) 0 u a. ' One coupon per pizza 1 Once coupon per pizza ~ 0 a. ;:) 0. u c: 8. ;:) 0 u a. 0 a. 0 I 0 I I Fast Free Delivery i fast, Free Delivery I I I 127 Nott Street, Sch'dy ., N.Y. I 127 Nott Street, Sch'dy ., N.Y. I 372-4441 1 372-4441 1 I Expires-at the end of UAion I Expires at the end of Union 1 L College's Winter Term 8 College's Winter term. I --------------------- Supp9rt Sports at Union This Spring Yoursupport of sports can only aid campus spirit I

L. w c::: L. w ...J w > w - If) >- .0 0 0 J:: c. Page 12 CONOORDIENSIS, March 5J 1981 sports E.C.A.C. Tournament HQopers Receive Bid Sc h e·d u I e: ByJOHN,JAROSAK Ho~ever, the .season is\ not of th~ 12 ·games were .. on the Sat., March 7, 6:00p.m .. Union <13-11 ( 12-6) Div. Ill) vs. Alfred<2o-6) r 8:00 p.m. Hamilton Cl9-sJ vs. Sun., ·March 8, 3:00 p.m. Championship Game , All games can be heard on WRUC Season Preview:. The var~ity basketball team ended its regular season on a down note, losing to Division I· . Yale, 70;61. The Garnet were led by John Montanile with 18 points and n rebounds. While the Dutclunen were never down by more than nine points at any one time in the game; they could never quite catch the Bulldogs,. as they fell to their 11th loss of the season. Baseball Begins Training By MIKE SACCOCIO and GEORGE OJ!ERSTADT The Union baseball team is preparing for its .second spring trip to St. Petersburg, Fla. During its stay in Florida, the Dutchmen are scheduledto play four exhibition games--two Baseball prepares for season versus Division II powerhollSe Eckerd College and two versus the St. Louis Cardinals \A\ Team. The outdoor workouts, combined with these four games, will be invaluable .in preparing the team for the upcoming season. The team loses only . one starter from the '80. squad, and is thus expected to improve on last year's -12-11 record. New faces on the team include .pit· chers Sam \The Jam\ Sharp (Sr.), Bill Moran (Jr.), Joe Clinton (Soph.), and Charlie Dier (Fr.); also infielders, Joe Wood and Tom Blackburn (Fr.). Manager Bob Dirscoll will coWit heavily on these rookies to fill the shoes of the four graduating seniors. Being a first-year manager, Driscoll will also have big shoes to fill- those of former manager Dick Sakala. In two seasons as the Dut· chmen mentor, Sakala rebuilt the baseball program by compiling an overall record of 24-20, adding 14 games to the schedule and initiating the southern trip. Considering Driscoll's experience in baseball as a player at Ithaca College and coach at Union (under Sakala), he is expected to do a fine job. - Defensively, the Dutchmen are solid. Returning infielders from last year's squad are starters Tod Fobare (3B-5oph. ), AI DiLebro (SS-Jr.) and Steve Goll (2B-8r.). Other returnees include Fred Brown (2B.Soph.) and Pa-ul McGrath (lB·Jr~) who, with the addition of the rookies, afford Driscoll a great deal of talent to select this year's starting infield from. Forming the outfield will be all three starters from the 1980 squad: senior Dan Thomson and sophomores Mike Sccocio and Andy Dreher. Behind the plate the Dutchmen have two reliable catchers in retmning starter George Oberstadt (Soph.} and Ed Moriarty (Soph. ). Offensively, Union is well balanced. In the power department, Driscoll will look primarily to Fobare (last year's home run leader) and Andy Dreher. However, the majority of the other hitters are capable of hitting the long ball. Perhaps the team's most potent of- fensive weapon is its speed. This dimension in an offense is a plus and Coach Driscoll should be able to utilize it . to great advantage. Given the solid offense, defense and exceptional team speed, the crucible of Union's season will be its pitching. Losing three hurlers to graduation, the majority of this year's staff is Witested. The btilk of the work will be placed on the arms of Wayne Riker (Sr.)) and Glenn Kinns (Jr.). Both Riker and Kinns are ex- perienced pitchers and will be heavily counted on to perform well during the upcoming season. With the addition of Sharp, Moran, Clinton and Dier, the Dutchmen will have an inexperienced but potentially strong pitching staff. This year's baseball team should be exciting to watch and is a legitimate contender for an NCAA playoff berth. Home games are played at Central Park's beautiful 'A' diamond, Anyone interested in writing on intrarnurals in the spring should contact Bill at 382-9029. the fir!lt one being April 9' against Division I rival Siena College. The team is currently raising money to offsetthe cost of the Fl()rida trip; any support· is greatly appreciated. Fund raisers include beautif,ul Union baseball hats, t-shirts and a raffle. Junior hooper John \Count\ Montanile has been chosen as this edition's Athlete of the Week. John has been a starter for the three years he has played at Union. John excelled in last week's game against Division 1 Yale, scoring 18 points and grabbing 11 rebounds. He has been a· major faCtor in Union's. resurgence that has earned· them an ECAC bid. Playing center at 6'3\ and 205 lbs., Count has consistently been asked to guard players much bigger than himself. He has not only been successful in neutralizing bigger men, but has outperformed the majol,'ity he has faced. John started out the season very slowly, and this may be the reason for Union's sluggish start. From the middle of the season on, John started to rebound consistently and score points from the ins1de, which is so necessary for the Dutchmen. With scoring and rebotmding from the inside together with Union's potent outside scoring, the winning ingredients were brought together. . John has ,played in all 24 games this season, amassing 224 points .for a 9.3 points per game average. He is hitting 5().3 percent from the. field and 71.9 percent from the foul line. The Count i$ leading the club in rebounds with 170 (7.1 a game). over for· the Dutchmen road. basketball team. · On the The ECAC tournament. will strength of ;their 12-6 Division take place this Saturday and III :record and the difficulty of Sunday at Hamilton College. In their schedule,. the Garnet have addltion to Union (seeded been seleeted to participate in tbird), Hamilton, Alf:re(l, and the ECAC post~season tourney. Nazareth are incl1:1ded in the At·the midpoint.of the season, fiel9. Tbe Dutchmen open with Uaion's chances for any type of number two seed Alfred, 20-6 on post-season tournament ap- the season, at 6 p.m., while peared doubtful, at best. The number one seed Hamilton Garnet had lost four straight plays Nazareth. The final will games by an average of more be a~ 3 p.m., Sunday. Previous than 20 points and their record to the Dutchmen's five-year stood at 4.:8. However, showing lapse from the tournament, a great deal of character and they were a regular presence in perseverance, the Dutchmen the ECAC's. Union was in the completed the second half of the tournaiPent four -straight years season with a record of 9-3. from 1972·73 to 1975-76, winning These nine victories included the championship in 1973-74 victories over nationally ranked (Bill Scanlon's first year as (no. 2) Rochester, perennial coach) and 197-5-76. ECAC champ Hamiltan and ' Division II _powerhouse Hart- Hamilton is making its wick. What was even more seventh .straight appearance, impressiv~ ·about the second- last winning the tournament in half turnarolllld was that eight 1978-79. State Swim Meet: Cotugno, Meyer Shine Freshman Kyle Cotugno and junior Chris Meyer each broke three Union swim records this past. weekend, Feb. 26 to '28, to helpthe Dutchmen to their best finish ever in the New York State Swim Meet at Colgate. Cotugrio set school records in- the 100 freestyle (49.5), the 100 butterfly (54:.5) and the 200 butterfly (2: 00.20) while qualifying:for the NCAA meet in the 200 butterfly. Cotugno, who also posted a 1:50.3 in the 200 freestyle, has decided not to attend the NCAA meet for personal reasons. Meyer, meanwhile, set Union recQrds in the 200 freestyle (1: 51.1), the 100 backstroke (56.6) and tile 200 backstroke A good indication of John's mobility is his 59 assists and 26 blocked shots. John hails from Leetsdale, Pa., and has one year of (2t04.1). ~· The performances helped Union post its best score ever (116 points) in the meet, while finishing 13th out of 18 teams in the combined Division I, II and III event. Ron Newbold had times of 53~4 in the 100 . freestyle and 1:59.31 in the 200 freestyle while Harry W alkoff posted a 51.7 in the 100 fr.eestyle and .a 1:57.9 in the 200 freestyle. Steve Jacobs recorded a 56.89 in the 100 freestyle, a 2 :20.72 in the 200 backstroke and a .1:02.70 in the 100 backstroke. Andy Berquist swam the 200 freestyle in 1 :56.8 while Chris Howd posted a 1:06.5 in the 100 breaststroke. eligibility- left. His sophomore year was spent at Clarendon State, but he did not play basketball there. John Mon+anile jumps center in the Fieldhouse VoL The I' p E (CP studei be red priva« An that press1 arour priva~ succe of adJ recor1 selve~ Mo~ from Syste press of me COffii regis1 ThE lawyt inten form: locat dodg1 madE scho< later has mini1 legal ever M<J are 1 Arne of 19 \T appl: flatl~ refu cou1< Arne \U Arne helpJ priv: forn: Libe Selet refu Con~ con over infm give Tt \dir stud date and knm give obje

