Vo I. 111 , No. 2 Dave Wood, Director of Housing Hazard By SUSAN BLOOMBERG The asbestos issue, which has held the attention of many Union College students over the past few years, has for the most part been resolved as a result of a majo.r project this past summer. At a cost of approximately $550,000, both Fox and Davidson are now devoid of any asbestos. All .ceilings in the suites, lounges, hallways, and stairg wells, have been replaced with regular cei~ling tile. \The entire process was time- October l, 1981 • IS Lessened consuming,'' according to Dave Wood, Associate Dean for Residence Life, \bat was necessary to insure the safety of the project.\ It was not until late August that the project was completed in these two dorms. Dave Wood e:lq)lained that the process was started on the third floor in each dorm and was handed in sections of three or four suites at a time. The first step involved moving all the furniture from the floor. All lighting fixtures, heating devices, etc. also had to be removed from the walls. After the , asbestos was completely removed from each section, the plastic was taken down and the ceiling replaced with regular ceiling tile. For the most part, the work- men were made up of students who resided at Union over the summer break. They put in approXimately 72 hours a week by working six days a week at 12 hours a day. Th.e workers were required to wear respirators at all times for safety purposes. for the Future The actual process started by placing plastic on the ceiling with heavy duct tape. A whole section, including the floor and walls were eventually sealed in for safety reasons. A wetting agent was sprayed on the ceiling which made it have a According to Dave Wood, the project did cause some trouble for housing over the summer months. The completion of the project in late August did not allow painting crews, etc. to work on Davidson and Fox for the fall term. By PAUL GROSSMMAN By now Union has settled down into its daily rootine. There is still the occasional room change or textbook still on order, but for the most part, things will be running smoothly for the rest of the year. Not too long ago, the campus was a sea of cars, luggage, parents and freshmen. They were up for Orientation and eager to begin college life. They were told how they wollld, beco~ part of our \Union of People. ' The activities were numerous. Probably the most important official activity was the President's Welcome in Memorial Chapel. The Chapel was predictably standing room only for the opening remarks, with freshmen and parents alike listening attentively to the words of the Administration: Mr. Ken Nourse, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, Mr. Thomas, D'Andrea, Vice President of Academic Affairs, and JohnS. Morris, President of· the College. Their words were warm, insightful and thought provoking. One of the student chairmen of the Orientation Committee, Kelly Dennin, welcomed everyone, thanked the ' Com- mittee and all else who hel[Jed, and provided some good advice. uWhen you need assist~ce,\ advised Dennin, \turn fo any member of the campus com- munity.\ Dean Nourse commented on the 2:1 ration of men to women that exists in the Freshman class .. ''We in Admissions wanted to change it, but the women didn't want to-they like the odds.\ Vice President D'Andrea assured the Class of '85 of three things, \You will find the next few days very confusing ... you will find the next four years very exhilarating, and parents,'' continued D'Andrea, ''r~member leaving your child in kindergarten. It won't be much easier today.\ D'Andrea concluded with a last piece of lighhearted wisdom, advising freshmen to tell their parents as they depart, \Don't worry Mom, I won't forget to wear my retainer.'' The words of President Morris were in a mQre serious tone. His advice, clearly drawn from wisdom accrued during - his years in college as an ad- ministrator and educator, were insightful and forced in- trospection. . President Morris said that entering college is, . \clearly a new setting. You define yourself in respect to your new responsibilities. There will be new academic and social challenges, and the ability to adapt to the new is the ability to face and conquer.\ The President also added Freshmen and Upperclassmen: Do you want to get involved with · Student Forum Committees? Committee applications are now available in the Student Ac- , tivities Office and they must be returned to that office no later than Monday, October 12th. The following committees have vacancies: · 1. The Concert Committee: (2 vacancies)-a group of students who plan and arrange campus concerts. This includes. hiring a . band, setting up, selling tickets, and working the concert. (Open to • Freshmen only.) 2. The Social Committee: (3 vacancies)-they are responsible for planning social events for students such as Nightclub, Winter Carnival, Camp Union and dances. (Open to Freshmen only.) 3. ·The Film Committee: (5 vacancies)-provides films for the campus during the week as well as on weekends. Both Freshmen and Upperclassmen may submit applications. 4. Tbe Eledion Committee: (4 vacancies)-they establish voting rules and procedures for the various student elections. Both Fresh- men and Upperclassmen may submit applications. 5. The Speaker's Forum: (1 vacancy)-they. select and sponsor nationally prominent speakers for the Union College Community. · (Freshmen only.) 6. Traffic and Pet Court: (6 vacancies)-this committee is set up to run as an appeals court. It has the power to decrease or dismiss fines which a student questions and brings to the court for a ·. hearing. (Open to Freshmen and Upperclassmen.) If anyone has any questions concerning these committees or the applications in general,. I will be seated in front of Carnegie Hall from 2:30-5:00 p.m. on Thursday, October 1. Gary Chadick, Vice President of Administration that, \Intellectual growth is the development of cultural in- telligence. To gain this you must be open.\ \You stand before a new sense of yourself-what you do with it is now up to you. We can provide you with the arena for this struggle.'' · Concluding on a somewhat lighter note, President Morris reminded the freshmen that September 2oth marked the lOOth Anniversary of the swearing in of Chester Arthur, a Union alumnus, as President of the United States. President Mortis told the Class of '85, ''If he made it, you can too.\ sandy-type consistency. . The ceilings were then scraped and left to dry. This was followed by a rulrdown process, which left the concrete bare. Air samples of each section were tested after the process was completed. Although the ceilings were composed of less than 3 percent asbestos originally, the in- spectors, according to Dave Wood, were consistent and cautious not to leave any · asbestos in the dorms. There were cosmetic problemS' as 'a result of the project. For instance, the heat duct tape took much of the paint off the walls. Likewise, the curtain rods were attached to the tile rather than the con· crete. These problems are now being resolved by the main· tenence department. For the present time, the asbestos issue will be layed to rest. There is stiU asbestos remaining in Hitchcock House. Raymond and Potter. When this will be dealt with is a matter of time and funds. Party POlicy Announced Acting Dean of students- Don Spring this week announced a new policy concerning on- campus parties. It is as follows: 1. Fraternity, Sorority, Dorm or Floor parties, including outside guests, should be registered with Security and Mr. Michael Andolina, Assistant Dean of Students, at least five days prior to the date of the party. Failure to comply with this request may result in a $50 fine for first offense, $100 fine for second offense. 2. President of House, or Head R.A. and Floor Counselor should be stipulated as responsibility agent and liaison person between residence members and the college ad- ministration. 3. Should Security be called Don Spring, Acting pean of Students for reasons of noise, damage, or other conduct violation, the schedule of penalties will be as follows: {1) First visit will constitute warning. (2) Second visit will result in $100 fine. (3) Third visit will result in an additional $100 fine, and may also result in administrative action in the form of conduct charges or Social Probation. (4) Fourth visit will result in an additional $300. fine, Social Probation, and shutting down of party by whatever means are deemed necessary by the ad- ministration. INSIDE: Blue Skies p. 4 Concert Preview p. 5 Nottices p. 8-9 Sports p. 10-12

Page 2 .·• OONOORDIENSIB. October 1., 1981 < •' f.' SENIORS GRADUATE . ·~ . '-\'·.' .. .... '' ' Heat RestOred Money Saved By EDWAI\D ALBRO In response to reports of cold dormitory and classrooms this .past week, Director of Main- tenance and Security Jack Hill informed Concordlensls that the main campus heating plant was indeed non-functional. The reason for this problem was not a breakdown, however, but the installation of a new energy saving device. . The main boiler plant,. which proyides heat for 4 Fox, Davidson, South, and North dormitories and all academic buildings, was restarted Tuesday afternoon, September 29, after the installation of the conservation device was completed. ''There have been some complaints\ due to the Tuition Fees unseasonably low temperatures and damp weather, Mt. Holl said,, but these complaints were of ''a minimum amount and certainly Justified.'' He reported that no buildings were with()ut h()t water, since this is not a. function of the main system. Mr. Hill explained that the Economizer is a device in· stallei;l in the heat exhaust stack which \recaptures heat that would norn:tallY escape through the stack.\ This heat is then used to convert water into steam. Thus, it ''captures heat which otherwise would have been wasted,\ Hill said. This savings indicates that the device, which cost $50,000 in- cluding installation, should have a quick payback period and shQuld soon be saving the College considerable funds . INTERNATIONAL CAREER? A repr~sentative will be on the campus THURSDAY OCTOBER 8, 1981 On Sunday, June 15, the Class of 1981 became the 185th set of Union College alumni. Due to rain, the Commencement ceremonies were held inside Achilles Rink. Honorary degrees were bestowed on Betty Allen, mezzo-soprano anc~ executive director of the Harlem School ·Of the Arts; State Senate Majority Leader Warren M. Anderson; Sigmund \Sig\ Makofski '26, former ·coach and Basketball Hall of Fame inductee; Ri.chard A. Selzer '48, surgeon and author; and Jack W. Peltasoll,president of the American Coun-cil of Education. Mr. Peltason was also the Commencement to discuss qualifications for advanced study at AMERICAN GltADUATE SCHOOL and ,job opportunities in the field of INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT Interviews may be scheduled at CAREER PLANNING speaker. The valedictorian was Richard J. Rizzo, and the salutatorian was AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNUIONAL MANAGEMENT Thunderbird C1mpus Glend1le, Arizon1 85306 Michael J. Books. Below is the Class of 1931, celebrating the 50th anniversary of their graduation. They were on campus last spring to celebrate ReUnion Weekend. M \!.?.;!.~ ... ~~~?!!5 -· 833 McClellan St., 372-1133' Schenectady Welcomes you back with a E D c A L s c H 0 0 L Take the money worries out of medical school with an Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship. Full tuitien. Books. Fees. Necessary equipment. And $530 a month. Once selected for a Physician scholarship-available from the Army, Navy or Air Force- you are commissioned as a second lieutenant or an ensign in the Reserve. Serve a 45-day active-duty period annually while in the program. And agree to serve on active duty after graduation. You will serve one year for each year of participation in the scholarship program (3-year minimum commitment). You receive excellent salary and benefits. More importantly, you get invaluable experience working beside dedicated medical people. For more information mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box Cl776, Huntington Station, NY 11746 Yes, I am interested. in Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship opportunities for physicians. I understand there is no obligation. (0S) I 15% DISCOUNT on anything you buyl No Limit! open tillS p.m. Mon., Tues., Wed. 1111 I Name~ . .,------·-~---,.,.---=--:c--~-------- Sex OM 0 F ArmyO NavyO Air Force 0 --7 p.m. Thurs. --till midnight Fri. & Sat. --closed Sunday (Specials excluded, coupon must be presented to obtain dise\ount) (Please Pnnt) Address _________________ Apt--_,.,...--- City ____ ~ __ State Zip _____ Phone~.----- Enrolled att (School) ____ _ To graduate in:j: Degree l1 -- (Month. Year) Th munj bytll ·Willi Clas: Ree< hear Elli: tern« Pr visit: inth pern accE Clas he ~ Prof Anc com Reec ture: Urii, ·Scot clas: Hull 1 He Unit 1916 CoU fron Thi scur fran I aretl -the' less· appli year have collE natic Th 560 Twe grad the high perc has i stud; p.erc desi:J sciei the i shoVI

cJONOOBD'l:IBNSIS, iJc'tober 1, 1981 College Suffers Sad Loss The Union College Com- munity was saddened this week by the death of Professor David William Reece, chairman of the Classics Department. Professor Reece, who had been ill with heart disease, passed away at Ellis Hospital Tuesday af- ternoon, September 29. Prof. Reece, who had acted as visiting professor at the College in the year 1964-65, joined Union permanently in 1967, when he accepted the chair . of the Classics Department. In 1974, he was named Frank Bailey Professor of Greek, Latin, and Ancient Languages. Before • coming to Union, Professor Reece had been a senior lec- turer in humanities at the University of Aberdeen in · Scotland, and a lecturer in classics at the University of Hull. He was. born .in Bristol in the United Kingdom on August 30, 1916. He attended St. John's College of Oxford University from 1935-39, where he studied under noted ·scholar Gilbert Highet. In 1939 Reece graduated from Oxford with first class honors and he later received an M.A. from the same institution. From 1939-1946; Professor Reece served with the British Army Infantry Division in Burma and India, reaching the rank of Captain. In 1945 he was awarded the 'Mention in Despatches' honor for his service. Professor Reece's academic specialty was early Roman history, and he had published extensively in that and other areas. At the time of his death, he was said to have been in- volved in researching the Roman Emperor Vespasian. Professor Neal Allen, a close· friend of Professor Reece, had this to say of his colleague, \He was a humane and gentle man of wide interests and sound scholarship, a good companion, Frosh Numbers By DOUG LANDON The 503 people recently seen scurrying around campus frantically asking directions are the latest addition to Union ~ - the Class of '85. They comprise less than one-sixth of the 3,241 applicants for admission this year. Seventy-three students have transferred from various colleges and universities nationwide. The median SAT scores are 560 verbal and 620 math. Twenty-six percent are graduates of private schools, the rest coming from public high schools. Approximately 27 percent of the freshman class has indicated they would like to study engineering, while 22 p.ercent have expressed the desire to study the natural sciences. Eighteen percent of the incoming freshmen have shown an interest in the social sciences, with 4 percent in the humanities. Seventeen percent have undeclared-liberal arts majors. This year's freshman -class is 65 percent male, a gre~t con- trast with that of the previous year, which was 52 perc-ent male and 48 percent female. Admission staff commented that while a balanced group of people was accepted, fewer females had decided to attend. Eight residents of foreign countries are included in the class. Amongst the rest of the class, fifty-eight percent of all freshmen are New York state residents, over twenty-three percent come · from · New England, twelve percent from the Middle Atlantic Region, and two percent from the Central states. The West Coast and Southern territory. provide the class with one percent each. BRING· A FRIEND SAVE $10.00. ON OUR ''BUDDY SYSTEM''- BIKINI AND LEG WAXING ACRYLIC NAILS FACIALS MAKEUP AN'D HAIR DESI.GN FOR-APPOINTMENT CALL 374-0736 . ~~; 322 State Street :~WHERE BEAUTY IS ALWAYS SKIN DEEP and a discriminating and ena thusiastic lover of classical music. In addition, he was a loyal and devoted member of the faculty, and deeply con• cerned about the welfare of the college.'' Professor Reece is survived by his widow, Pauline, three daughters, Anne, Margaret and Jennifer, and two grandsons. A memorial service will be held in the chapel today at 3:30. All are welcome. Concordiensis would like to join. the rest of Union College In offeriDg our condolences to Professor Reece's family and friends. ' David William Reece Aug. 30, 1916-Sept. 29,1981 Overcrowding Continues By NAOMI BLANK and REGINA GOUGH Overcrowding on Union's campus is not a recent issue. Five-person suites have existed for at least six years and)l~ve become a common hvmg condition for incoming -fresh- campus and the upperclass need of on-campus housing is constant,\ Mr. Wood reported. When asked whether or not the decline in freshmen five-person suites was a trend for the future., Mr. Wood commented that \unless the college makes a decision to make the fresh- man class smaller, we will continue to have the same level of five-person suites.\ Students living in a five- person suite who are having problems with this living condition can seek help. After October 5 the Residence Life office will accept requests from students wishing to make other housing arrangements. , men. At present, forty percent of the freshmap class, a total of 205 students, have been placed in five-person suites. When comparing the class of '85 to the class of '84, there is \close to the same ratio of male and female freshmen placed in five-person suites,\ explained Mr. David Wood, Associate Dean for Residence Life. \This year housing attempted to put the same percent of freshnten in each building (except North College),\ Mr. Wood added. However, there are five fewer five-person suites inhabited by the class of '85 than there were by the class of '84. This may be due to the fact that five fewer students were accepted into the freshman class as well as the occurrence of 17 no-shows, \students who have paid the admission fee and deposit, signed and returned the residence hall contract, but never showed up,\ commented Mr. Wood. AAC Report There is housing available .for 1,325 students on campus. Presently 1,366 students are living on campus, placing housing at 103 percent capacity. \No one sees a trend of up- perclassmen moving off By STEVE AUERBACH The Academic Affairs Council (A.A.C.) had its first meeting this past Tuesday. The Council is one of two major all-campus committees, the other being the Student Affairs Council (SAC). The AAC is specificially charged with \The formulation and recommendation of plans and policies for curricular development in the un- dergraduate program, graduate program, and the program in continuing education. . . . The AAC shall devise a working plan for academic development, en- compassing both a general direction for the entire academic program and ap- propriate goals for departments and programs.\ In practice the AAC has concerned itself with such programs as liberal learning, • HARCOURT BRACE JOVANOVICH.INC. Time Is Running Out TEST PREPARATION BOOKS All.new 1981 Editions! Practice tests identical to actual tests in format scope, time frame and level of difficulty to insure your exam-readi· ness. All questions are answered in detail. Complete review material in each book, plus many new features never before included in a test preparation book. Union Book Company ; freshman 'preceptorials, transdisciplinary and in- terdepartmental majors, and the Steinmetz Honors Program, as well as approving all new courses. The committee is also in charge of passing on all grant proposals for such programs as the Internal Education Foun- dation (I.E.F. ), Faculty Research Grants, and the Mellon Grant, as well as being in charge ofthe \standing of the students.\ Last year, under the new college governance structure, the AAC started the curricular review. This has consisted of gathering data, such as class distribntions, faculty and departmental loading, a review of how students were using . liberal learning, non-departmental majors, the pass-fail option, and so forth. This work continues this year, hopefully, with some ultimate ideas as to where we stand as a school and where we want to go coming out of this _ process. The committee consists of seven faculty members (four division representatives and three members-at-large), four students appointed by the Student Forum's Committee on Committees, and three acl- ministrators (though one does not vote). The student representatives this year are Steve Auerbach, Chuck Figur, Debbie Frisch and Carol Zimmerman. The faculty members are professors Griggs (civil engineering), Hannay (computer science), Huggins (sociology), Jones (physics), Lambert (biology, and the AAC chairperson), Phaup (economics), and Robbins .. (art). The three administrators are Nelson (undergraduate studies), Feinsot (graduate studies and continuing education), and Vice-President D'Andrea (nonvoting). Meetings are generally open to all members of the Union College community. No day and time have been set for meetings, but interested people should ask any member. The student representatives . welcome any suggestions and ~student input.

Page 4 OONOORDIENSIS, October 1, 1981 f . . 'i:'i.r- Dance Gains Popularity t{ \ Ellen Holtzman and Nannette ~lum are two of Dance ·Ciub 1 s officers. Missin is Anne Keetz. Bla111e It On Union By ERIC RUBEN I walk down the hall, make the left tum and put the key into my lock when I feel a tap on my shoulder. \Eric it's almost time.\ Oh no. It wasn't even time and already Rick had that funny look in his eye. No, not that funny look in his eye. It was not the same as a Christopher Street look, it was the look of a man crazed by an insanity that was spurred on by one thing and one thing only. I could hear it down the hall. television and in my horror discovered that \Kung Fu\ :was on. I dove. for the set but cit was ~oo late. He grabbed me by the arm, swung me and let go, with a sidekick to the leg that sent me across the room in pain. I scrambled to my feet and ran after him, to no avail. He was headed out the door. It was lucky for all of us that after a minute away from a television, the effects wear off. I caught up with him in the hall.· He was sitting against the wall, dazed. He looked up at me with the look of a confused child. \Are we still going drinking tonight?\ he asked me. \Sme.' 1 I helped him up and he smiled. . - \ The Dance Club, a student workshop entitled \Not Just where everyone may dance to organization made up of both Mime,\ on October 13 in the their favorite types of music. dancers and non-dancers, has Arts Building, Room 202. The If you are interested in any of undergone a large increase in Club also, plans to hold a ·the Dance Club's activities, you membership this year - for workshop in ballroom dancing can contact Ellen HoltZIIlan at understandable reasons. The and there is a possibility .of Box 0168, Anne Keetz at Box . Dance Club is an active group workshops in other areas of · 1781, or Nannette Blum at Box which sponsors workshops, dance. Also being discussed is 1054. performances and residencies the idea of holding a band party by well known dance troupes. Last year alone, Union enjoyed the ,performance of Pilobolus, an avant-garde dance troupe, and saw the Martha Graham . and . Murray Lewis dance' companies at tile Empire State Plaza. In addition to off-campus trips, the Club co-sponsored a two-week residency by the Jose Limon Dance Company with other area colleges. The residency treated the Union community to a colloquium and to a lecture-demonstration. For Parent's Weekend, the Club put on a performance of an original work, as well as a dance that was the :contribution of a New York City choreographer hired by the Dance Club. The performance was held in Memorial Chapel, and the officers and members were pleasantly surprised, as over 300 people attended. The Dance Club has many plans and ideas for the up- coming year. On October 10, the Brown University Dance Extension will perform for . Homecoming Weekend at 4:30 in Memorial Chapel. Well known mime artist Rich Kuperberg will present a Nuts at :Union By D. BOOm For years Union College has striven to increase its foliage and the variety of that foliage so that Union students would be proud to rest their weary heads beneath the rare Ginko trees. A worthy and admirable cause, to he sure. Yet Union lacks the most representative of American trees, the Black Walnut. On an American college which seeks to represent the true American spirit - a spirit of Hawthorne, Melville, and American A.ttom reborn - this is a serious deficit. The Black Walnut has been traditionally prized for many of its attributes. The quality of its wood is known to those of im- peccable taste. It is one of the truly dark woods with· a mysterious luster, the grain reflecting a strangely sensual aura. Because of this, fot centuries man has used this wood in his most prized possessions . . . his gunstock. It has also been used in building fine furniture, . ,particularly unusually shaped .pieces: curio tables, smooth chairs and even unusually designed beds. The fruit of this tree, the Black Walnut, is one of the · tastiest of the nut family. In fact, in some rural areas of·the south, it is known that it takes three people to gather the nuts, two to tempt the hogs away from the nuts with corn, and one to gather the fruit before the hogs get smart. These prized nuts are however not as ac- cessible as the common hickory or chestnut. Once gathered, the aromatic skin must be removed. He already had his T.V. up to almost full volume and the speaker was distorting just a little. You've got to understand that I didn't want to do this, but he's a close friend and when this time rolls around and when it happens, I think someone should be with him. Blue Skies Over Union: This skin is the primary source of black walnut stain which means that the huskers must wear protective gloves and old ·clothing lest they become covered with the light brown stain and spicy lime smell. Besides lacking this tree important to our American heritage, Union is also lacking other trees just as important and American as the Black Walnut, in general, other fruit and nut trees. Imagine a cool evening in late spring: you and your companion are strolling in Jackson's Gardens. You stop beneath a fragrant tree and your companion reaches up and gently plucks a peach, its dusky skin shimmering with a light mist. Your first bite of that full piece of fruit is lush and as the juices run down your chin to glaze waiting lips, you know that that fruit tree was worth it. I'm sure that everyone will agree that we must encourage the campus to support this kind of American tradition. I followed him down the hall, the noise getting louder, his walk becoming strained, ahnost mechanical. By the time we sat down to fact the set, I knew he really needed it today. After his chemistry lab and, a twenty- page paper it was obvious. He sat down to enjoy his fix. The picture was clear today as the ambulance raced through the gates and \General Hospital\ was under way. Today I was sitting next to Dr. Alan Quar- termaine, which was fine with me because when Rick became Alan he was just as refined and that made it all so much easier on me. Once last week he was Laura and it became quite a scene. 'Gridiron Strategies The show was getting repetitious and before long the weight of my eyelids became intolerable and I let sleep overtake me. I'm sorry, it had been a very long, crappy day. Well, it happened. I slept all the way through G .H. I awoke with a start to see Rick reaching for his nunchucks. I looked at the ByD.BOOTH Fall, as a season, has a great deal to offer. The leaves turn in a bright array of color, squirrels and other assorted varmints gather fruits and nuts with comic gestures and chatter, and the nights become crisp enough to encourage cuddling beneath clouds scattered like black gypsy lace against the sky. It is also, in- cidentally, the only season when a man can walk down the street with a blanket on One arm and a blonde on the other and not raise eyebrows -- because everyone knows that they're off to the f<Jotball game. Personally, I have never been able to sit and watch football on televisiQn, mainly because I feel that there are so many other things that I could be par- ticipating in, if not as a player, at least as a cheering spectator. These afternoons, warm and somnolent, are perfect for a little coed two-handed touch. A bit of cider apd apples on the sidelines are perfect to replenish energy lost in the game. 2\nd don't forget the football - or the coed. Of course with Union's new field, being a spectator can be just as enjoyable as par- ticipating in a given sport. Be forewarned, however, that it is considerably colder sitting in the stands than running on the field. An extra sweater will help keep one warm, while a hip flask or jug of applejack will ad- mirably fight the chill. There are also other ways to fight the chill - ask the blonde. Homecoming, undeniably the Intellectual Cabaret : best attended football game, is a fine excuse for a plethora of other activities, particularly the ever-popular party. Tailgate parties are visible in full force.- Served from the back of an alum's station wagon, food and drink, especially drink, flows. Most fraternities and sororities also have small parties to greet returning alumni. The goodwill and congeniality of people on Union's campus can lead one to believe in the good life. With all this partying, it's possible to forget about the actual football game, yet the team will be out there playing their best. This year they ap- pear to be doing quite well. Let's all mix up some whiskey sours or spike some cider and head for the game. Somehow I think we're in for a great season. Interested in Writing? Come up to the WANTED Thought Without Texts Concordy Office on Tues. Nights TRAVEL REPRESENTATIVE What are you doing Monday evenings 1 If you are like many people, you can't think of~, anything - except study! A lot of people, though, will be able to $$$HIGH EARNINGS$$$ lo()kbackonlast year•andsay, ''I went to Intellectual FREE TRAVEL BENEFITS Cabaret.\Those of you who can National Travel and Marketing Company say that already ~OW what seeks assertive, highly motlvatod Individual 'Ilitellectual Cabaret lS, but for to represent its collegiate travel vacation those of you who can't, I'll try to programs on campus. paint a picture of what it is. Intellectual Cabaret, held in PART-TIME HOURS FLEXIBLE the Cabaret Room every other NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY Monday night at 9:00, hosts a· loosely structured discussion of a controversial topic, providing speakers to begin the debate. Last year, themes ranged from ''.the existence of God\1:o Soviet expansionism~' and from the ''morat·majority\ to \meet the WILL TRAIN Call (212) 855·7120 (between 11•5) WRITE CAMPUS VACATION ASSOCIATIONS 26 COURT STREET BROOKLYN, N.Y.11242 a.-\\\\!'\--:\\\':\'-~.:-:.~.-:-.-:-.-:-. -----' aclministration.\ Sneakers come from both on campus and off. A few of the guests we had last year included professors Charles Gati, Peter Heinegg, and Stanley Kaminsky, as well as Mr. Richard Brown, representative for the moral majority. The relaxed at- mosphere of the Cabaret Room, and the controversial topics combine to create a forum for lively dialogues between the students and the guest speakers. This year's Cabaret promises to be equally exciting, with provocative subjects to ex.cite debate. Some possible Cabarets include \the role of the PLO in Middle-East politics,, \Creationism and Evolutipn,\ and \Gun Control.\ A survey will be distributed to find out what you want to talk about; so check your mailboxes and take a few minutes to let us know your interests. And of course stop by on Mondays. or.Call 6155 ~~d~ 464 State St. Schenectady, NY A~ ·~!L -.WE DELIVER- 374-1888 /J Tl Cha Rec dist COlT mof arti M rele per1 ten ter1 tale for me1 Dor reft ritu His yet rna: .. imJ Ha, by (\l: ove tim mi1 stri COil or mic a pro roc ne:li am } Eu Au: Me sol by chE the Pe: 198 wi1 'n' str pe: m~ 1 Yo pel by teE Vil wa inc an gr: pe po l be 814 fri th; \F thl Tt tr~ pl; fh ev H' op Sv H; st, 19

·- OONOOBDIENSI~, ·October 1, 1981 ·Page 5·· ~rts & Culture • All About ·Don Mclea·n Union College Concert Committee Presents The release of Don McLean's Chab:t Ught-nlng on Millennium Jtecords (manufactured .and distributed by. RCA Records) completes a circle for one of the most influential and enigmatic artists of the Seventies. McLean's \Ametican Pie,\ released in 1971, and still a perennial on radio's all-time top ten lists,· launched an in- ternational career fDr the talented singer-songwriter. Yet for all tht;! worldwide com- mercial success of his music, Don McLean has stubbornly refused to succumb to the rituals of popular acceptance. His material shifts so rapidly yet so effortlessly in style that many critics have found it impossible to define him. Having begun his rise to fame by brea-king all the rules (\American Pie,\ after all, was over eight minutes long at a time when the Top 40 three- minute limit was no less stringent than it is now), he continues to ignore categories or regulations. He appears middle of the road one moment, a folkie the next, a social protester in one song, a gutsy rock 'n' roll interpreter in the next. All of that is Don McLean, and more. A headline attraction in Europe, South America and Australia, as well as America, McLean performs primarily solo, though he has been backed by rock bands, symphony or- chestras, bluegrass greups and the a capella legends The Persuasions, among others. His 1980 fall tour of Great Britain with a versatile six-piece rock 'n' roll band and a nine-piece string section, allowed him to perform a wide range of materia~in any format. Born in New Rochelle, New York, in 1945, ~on McLean had performed on numerous stages by the time he reached his teens. Concurrently attending . Villanova University (where he was part of a folk scene that included his friend Jim Croce) and Iona College (where he graduated) Don continued to perform at as many clubs as possible. In 1968 McLean sang at a benefit for the Hudson River Sloop Restoration with his friend Pete Seeger, and later that year was picked to be the \Hudson River Troubadour\ by the New York State Council On The Arts. For six weeks he traveled the length of the river, playing three concerts a day, five days a week, in almost every town along the Hudson. He also started playing concerts opening for Josh White, Blood Sweat and Tears, Richie Havens, Three Dog Night, Steppenwolf and others, He recorded his first album in 1969 with Jerry Corbitt (of The Youngbloods fame) producing. It was relea~d in 1970 by the Mediarts label after having been turned doWJi by 34 record companie~~. When it finally came out, Tapestry (released' a year before Carole King's album of the same name} got excellent reviews and established McLean as a club headliner. In 1970 he also labored to build t-he sloop ''Clearwater'' performing 30 concerts with Seeger to help meet the costs. It was launched that year at South Bristol, Maine. In 1971 he released the American Pie album on United Artists and became the most successful ''new\ artist to break that year. The song heralded the end of a musical era, and became a musical and media phenomenon. McLean's lyrics were ,analyzed and re- analyzed by Life, Time, Newsweek and media around the world. McLean was nominated that year for four Grammies (Best Album, Best Song, Best Record and Best Performance) .. In 1972 he released Don McLean, a reaction to the pressures of stardom. The album included the songs \Dreidel\ and \If We Try,\ both strong chart singles. In 1973 he took a break from the grueling schedule of world touring, and out of some low- key gigs with mandolinist Frank Wakefield came Playin' Favorites, an album of non- originals recorded in traditional folk, country, bluegrass and country style. \Mountains of Mourne\ from the LP became a nwnber one single in Ireland, where McLean is a superstar, as he is in England where his rendition of Buddy Holly's \Everyday\ hit the top ten. In 1974 McLean released Homeless Brother, produced by Joel Dorn in which he offered nine new originals · like \Wonderful Ba.by,\ a song inspired by Fred Astaire and subsequently recorded by him, and \LaLa Love You,\ another chart single. ln 1976, he released Solo, a double. live album that encapsulates the McLean solo concert ex- perience, including his haunting three-part singalong \Babylon.\ In late 1977 he released Prime Time, his first collection of new material in two and a half years. Now in 1981 comes C:hain Lightning, released . on Millenni urn Records, which includes the single \Crying\ (written by Roy Orbison) - already a number one hit gold single in Britain and Holland - and is yet another milestone in McLean's relationship to American Music. Don McLean has . ac- TENNIS • RACKETBALL • RUNNING -Head, Adidas, Nike, Prince, Fila, Wilson, Tretorn -24 Hour String.ing -Demo Rackets Available -All Nik.es 10 percent off ' BEST PRICES IN TOWN ' . COURTSI,DE TENNIS & SKI 1624 UPPER UNION ST.· Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 372-5558 cwnulated over 40 gold. and platinwn records from various countries around the world, including some precious metal for Chain Lightning and ''Crying.'' Throughout his career, McLean has toured continually in the U.S. as well as England, Scotland, Ireland, Germany. Scandinavia, Holland, Belgium, Switzerland, Israel, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. The spring of 1981 found McLean embarking on an extensive North American tour headlining in clubs aad concert halls throughout the United States and Canada. On F,riday, October 9, the Concert Committee will put on its first concert of this school year to beginHomecoming 1981. Union students will have an opportunity to listen to the · music of Don McLean and Livingston Taylor. The concert will be held in the Memorial Chapel, an appropriate setting for the mellow music of these fine musicians. · Livingston, who has spent much of his professional career in the shadow of his brother James, performs his own songs in a very laid-back, mellow style. On this leg of his tour, Livingston is being backed up by a band which contains ex- members of the Pousette-Dart Band. This should prove to bring a lively, funky sound to Taylor's music. Tickets are on sale now, so buy yours soon! DON McLEAN and LIVINGSTON TAYLOR IN CONCE;RT Oct. 9 8:00p.m. Memorial Chapel Tickets on sale now in Carnegie Hall The Legend Continues Though many Smythies have come and gone the legend of Eustas P. continues. Along with the rather sordid legend that dear old Eustas left behind, we find the gruesome tale of his illegitimate son, Skeeter 0. Smith. (And with Eustas' reputation this is not at all surprising.) It is poor overlooked Skeeter 0. who deserves the fame and glory that was so hastily bestowed upon his dad. Though it is true that Skeeter was booted out of the Seminary, it is quite clear that he was still the applie of his father's eye. Legend has it that Skeeter and Eustas spent days at a time in the wilds of Union's campus hunting sweet-and not com- pletely unsuspecting-beavers. Weeks were reported to have gone by before Eustas and Skeeter would (happily) return to their home. It is the unac- counted fol\ nights that still puzzle Smithies and Smythies alike. It seems that the practice of beaver hunting continues to plague our campus to this day. And quite recently a rather reliable source reported to have had a rather unaccounted for visitor herself. No ooe seems to know who it might have been, and even our savage mascot Rover (you have heard of Rover) was completely unaware of the occurrence. In any case Rover has nothing to do with Skeeter. It., is Skeeter's turn and his alone to bask in the glory of illegitimacy. In honor of Skeeter 0. Smith, the brothers and sisters of Smith House invite all Union inhabitants to become illegitimate brothers and sisters of our home and our Skeeter. See The Other Front on page 9 for particulars. Baird the.·Bard By STEVE AUERBACH For those of us who were looking for a ray of effervescent sunshine on that gray wet Tuesday, the day before classes were to resume, Stephan Baird's idiosyncratic per- formance in the Coffeehouse hit just the perfect note. Baird is one of Boston's most famous street .performers, and people from an over the country make time to catch him playing on the Boston Common. Although his apprenticeship and style has been that of a street musician, Baird plays the college circuit during the fall and 'winter. A public television documentary of him playing in Madison, Wisconsin, has been shown numerous times. Often he is hired to play at registration lines and in dining halls, as well as in more formal settings such as the Coffeehouse. His first love though is street per· forming, the lure of which led him to drop out of a chemical engineering program in the late 1960s. His annual return to the Boston Cortunons in the spring has earned him the local nickname of the \Robin of Boston.\ Baird's style is off-the-cuff, if not off-the-wall, and clearly most suited to the peculiar demands of street performing. He plays a wide range of folk instnunents and his repertoire includes folk and American traditional songs, Simon and Garfunkel, and childhood camp songs. Short of stature, weighing in at just one hundred pounds, and with a cherubic elfin smile under a thick beard, Baird clearly delights in the alternative culture role he plays, yet in the streets attracts a diverse crowd of young children, businessmen at lunch, and of course college students. At the Union College Cof- feehouse he played several \girl scout songs,\ and got the good sized crowd singing along with him on the infamous song about the improbable ad- ventures of an oversexed rooster. For another number he had students accompanying him on kazoos. However, judging by the applause, the hit of the night was a wonderfully soulful rendition of the Beatie's \Norwegian Wood\ to the accompaniment of a dulcimer. Another crowd favorite was his feisty yet lyric reading of \The Song of The Whipporwill.\ Interspersed. throughout were some truly terrible jokes. From his street performing ex- perience comes a fine ability to make contact with an audience, even in such an impersonal auditorium as the Old Chapel. As part of his second encore, Baird had the audience helping clean up, which no doubt en- deared him to the Coffeehouse Committee. Stephan Baird was with us all day on that wet and gray Tuesday, having been invited up, as is his wont, not only to perform in the Coffeehouse but also around campus. Since it was raining, he went to registration at the gym, Car- negie Hall, and the West College dining hall. For his efforts he was asked to leave at several of these stops. This was but a local, if particularly un- fortunate and embarrassing (for Union College) example of a problem Baird has been . fighting for years. Although all sorts of grotesqueries are tolerated and have even been institutionalized in city streets and on college campuses, street performers . are usually harassed Baird has been a leader in the fight for the right of street performers to perform. He was the founder of the Boston Street Singers Cooperative, and he is currently in the process of suing several cities for the right to perform under the first and fourteenth amendments. He has already won the battle for performers in Boston. Although street per- formers were common throughout America before the mid-twentieth century, crack- downs by such mayors as LaGuardia of New York, led to changes in public attitudes. When Baird left after having completed four-and-a-half years of a five year chemical Northeastern engineering program to be a street singer, things were difficult. \It was crazy in those days,\ remembers Baird. \Having an Itinerant Musician's License didn't mean a thing. The cops would still find excuses to chase or even arrest you. Of course part of the problem was with the musicians themselves. Most of them would just run away and that only reinforced the policemen's belief in their own righteousness. When the police used to chase me, if they gave a reason at all, it was usually that I was begging or soliciting, which is illegal. But to get my license in the first place, I had to swear that street music was my primary source of income. It didn't make any sense.\ At this point the street per- former became an activist: \I wrote the mayor and anyone else I could think of. At first it only made matters worse. The Mayor's office forwarded the letters to the police department. But finally I found my way to the right guy in City Hall and we started getting something done. The licensing law was changed to include the following phrase: \Licensee permitted to receive voluntary donations but is not permitted to solicit.\ Even with the empty hat or open guitar case legalized problems remained. \Then it was a matter of educating all the cops Continued on page ·9

Page 6 · OON06RDIEN81S 1 October 1., 1.981. . !ditorials Rediscover Union Now The flyers for th!S year's Homecoming tout the event as a way to ''rediscover'' Union College. Thls,_we feel, is a great idea, and we are sure· that the alumni will take advantage_ of the invitation. There is one interesting point that is n<>t mentioned in relation to Homecom.lrig: during the prepa:raHons, the students in attendance he~e should have first crack at discovering and rediscovering Union Colle\ge. The need to discover Union College is not one that is limited to freshmen, or transfer students. These students are just becoming acquainted with the ways of Union College, and the entire college community. Practically everything is a new discovery, and these individuals have much to offer~ Keeping this in mind, we welcome the influx of new ideas and the accompanying enthusiasm. Upperclassmen must also explore and re-explore what the college has to offer in order to keep their Union experiences fresh' and productive. The sophomores are in the unique position of having had experience as .a ''college student,'' yet still havt.D.g three years in which to exert their influence on the school. Their perceptions, like those of the freshmen, are of immense value in rediscovering and improving the quality of lite at Union. Both the senior a.Rd junior classes are perhaps m the most interesting position. In the time that they have been attending Union, they have become an integral part of the institution. They are working, learning and loving the life of a college student. In a way, the students become a Union tradition in themselves, simply by attending classes and participating in activities. Un- . fortunately, there are two drawbacks to being an upperclassman, especially a senior. There is a tendency for the student to either devote his attention to activities that will be pursued after college (i.e., job or graduate school), or to just relaxing and taking advantage of \senioritis.\ This is a very dangerous oc- currence because when the junior and senior classes withdraw tlieir par- ticipation from the College, we lose great and important contributors. They possess an amazing amount of knowledge and experience regarding the College. The upperclassmen should be aware of this fact, arid try to par- ticipate in the activities that they enjoy, and pass their expe-rience and knowledge onto others. The second pitfall in the upperclasses is that after two or three years at Uniori, they become jaded. Certain portions of the campus, certain routines, and various activities become \old hat,\ and the students may become in- credibly apathetic and unstimulated. Don't take things for granted! The ac- tivities are running now because juniors and seniors like yourselves have devoted the time and energy to the programs. It is also very easy to lose track of new activities, or to ignore activities that didn't interest you as a sophomore or freshman. Tastes change, and so do activities that you might find satisfying. The junior and senior is under just as much obligation to explore, and rediscover Union as the freshman and sophomore is. This is a new year, and a new term, with many exciting opportunities for any student, of any class, if they are motivated and receptive. Take advantage of the school's offerings. The school and it's faculty are here to serve you and for you to contribute in a productive and beneficial manner. Rediscover Union. It is a fascinating place to live and work if you utilize its potential. There is more here than meets the eye. A Call To Ac-tion ' . A vast majority of students attending Union College receive some sort of· financial aid. The Reagan budget cuts are going to affect those students directly and all of us indirectly. It could mean the end of the independent college. The situation is that serious. · The facts will be presented next week and 1n the weeks follow:in,g here in Oonoordienais. Students must become aware of this serious situation. Apathy now could be disastrous to independent colleges, Union included. It is important enough for the Director of Financial Aid, Robert Massa, to.keep one eye on Union and the other on Washington at all times. President Morris said in a Ooncordy interview that his main concern as president is to insure Union's survival in these unstable economic times. That was even before the budget cuts. Students .. do have an organized voice. It is in the form of the Independent Student Coalition (ISC). The ISC, \representing the interest of. over a quarter of a million students enrolled at New York's Independent. colleges and univer- sities,'' is the student counterpart to the committee of Independent colleges and universities (clcu). Both of these organizations have strong political voices and can have a real effect on the future of our institution. President Morris is a key member of cicu. Union students should follow his lead and make their voices heard. The editors of Concordiensis support the ISC in all that it is trying to do. We must appeal to the Student Forum and the entire student body to take action and have their opinions serve as a vital source of information to those who will make decisions that will have a great effect on us all. • lS not The great end of l~fe knowledge but action. Thomas ffenry Huxley in Technical Education 1877 Editers-in-Chief Managing Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editor Campus Page Editors Rachel I. Mandel, Paul Grossman Julie Isgro Ed Albro Naomi Blank Judi Chervenak Bob Fox Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Sports Editors Jay McDermott, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Drew Hurley Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Photo Editor Min~y Broser Sports Photo Editor . Steve Lerner Staff Steve Auerbach, Alan Binkow; Sue Bloomberg, Regina Gough, Doug Landon, Peter Mohr, D.C. Owens, . Dan Booth, Donna Creeley, Cindy'Te1111er, Amelia Terhune Business Staff Jenny Amler, EvelYJ! Gocdin, Dianne Pavacic Photo Staff Janet Glli.llano, Norman Pilaster CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Pa1blications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607} '5S3-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class lllatter. Subscription' . rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States . . CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). · ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~,~-~.~. ~~~~~~-- .• ~ · .. , - ~- ~~~-~~ .·;~·.,~~-~-·~ • ~b~:·~~j~ (CPS)-•1 panging, c gone. These dl America's more like! synthesise( zaps of vid The nev just eighty now prim1 only pushi pinball n games and door, the: customers swelling w Unions , cash in 01 than leasi games lf UCLA bot equipment to service supply tJ necessar~ student ru Panatier. The rest owns 26 vi expects U hit $313,00~ 1976-77. \The ga so popula1 limit it to guests,\-1 had kids streets.\ Explain: -which ar program~ Asteroids Targ an popular iE calculatin case curr Supreme« and 1 Associatic are pop provide '' exercise' ''they're some so games f, titudes i perhaps c F

Page 6 CON06RDIEN818, October 1, 1981 Editorials Rediscover Union Now The flyers for this year's Homecoming tout the event as a way to ·~rediscover'' Union College. This, we feel, is a great idea, BJ1d we are sure that the alumni wm take advantage of the invitation. There ls one interesting point that is not mentioned in relation to Homecoming: during the prepa:rations, the students in attendance here should have first crack at discovering and rediscovering Union College. The need to discover Union College is not one that is limited to freshmen, or transfer students. These students are just becoming acquainted with the ways of Union College, and the entire college community. Practically everything is a new discovery, and these individuals have much to offer. Keeping this in mind, we welcome the influx of new ideas and the accompanying enthusiasm. Upperclassmen must also explore and re-explore what the college has to offer in order to keep their Union experiences fresh and productive. The sophomores are in the unique position of having had experience as a \college student,\ yet still having three years in which to exert their Influence on the school. Their perceptions, like those of the freshmen, are of immense value in rediscovering and improving the quality of life at Union. Both the senior and junior classes are perhaps in the most interesting position. In the time that they have been attending Union, they have become an integral part of the institution. They are working, learning and loving the life of a college student. In a way, the students become a Union tradition in themselves, simply by attending classes and participating in activities. Un- fortunately I there are two drawbacks to being an upperclassman, especially a senior. There is a tendency for the student to either devote his attention to activities that will be pursued after college (i.e., job or graduate school), or to just relaxing and taking advantage of 14 Seniorltls.\ This is a very dangerous oc- currence because when the junior and senior classes withdraw their par- ticipation from the College, we lose great and important contributors. They possess an amazing amount of knowledge and experience regarding the College. The upperclassmen should be aware of this fact, and try to par- ticipate in the activities that they enjoy, and pass their experience and knowledge onto others. The second pitfall in the upperclasses is that after two or three years at Union, they become jaded. Certain portions of the campus, certain routines, and various activities become \old hat,\ and the students may become in- credibly apathetic and unstimulated. Don't take things for granted! The ac- tivities are running now because juniors and seniors like yourselves have devoted the time and energy to the programs. It is also very easy to lose track of new activities, or to ignore activities that didn't interest you as a sophomore or freshman. Tastes change, and so do activities that you might find satisfying. The junior and senior is under just as much obligation to explore, and rediscover Union as the freshman and sophomore is. This is a new year, and a new term, with many exciting opportunities for any student, of any class, if they are motivated and receptive. Take advantage of the school's offerings. The school and it's faculty are here to serve you and for you to contribute in a productive and beneficial manner. Rediscover Union. It is a fascinating place to live and work if you utilize its potential. There is more here than meets the eye. A Call To Action A vast majority of students attending Union College receive some sort of financial aid. The Reagan budget cuts are going to affect those students directly and all of us indirectly. It could mean the end of the independent college. The situation is that serious. The facts will be presented next week and in the weeks following here in Concord.iensis. Students must become aware of this serious situation. Apathy now could be disastrous to independent colleges, Union included. It is important enough for the Director of Financial Aid, Robert Massa, to keep one eye on Union and the other on Washington at all times. President Morris said in a Ooncordy interview that his main concern as president is to insure Union's survival in these unstable economic times. That was even before the budget cuts. Students 'do have an organized voice. It is in the form of the Independent Student Coalition (ISC). The ISC, \representing the interest of over a quarter of a million students enrolled at New York's Independent colleges and univer- sities,\ is the student counterpart to the committee of Independent colleges and universities (cicu). Both of these organizations have strong political voices and can have a real effect on the future of our institution. President Morris is a key member of cicu. Union students should follow his lead and make their voices heard. The editors of Concordiensis support the ISC in all that it is trying to do. We must appeal to the Student Forum and the entire student body to take action and have their opinions serve as a vital source of information to those who will make decisions that will have a great effect on us all. • ls not The great end o.f l~fe knowledge but action. Thomas Henr_y Huxle.r in Technical Education 1877 Host A Pros_p,~ct .,. _David C. Owa, ' . ; ··.····A·.· ... ., ... :, .• .· ·······.··k·.· . · ). .... ,.,.,e,.,w·or .·, ,.,. . . .. . -- . ·:::. .-:-:-.:-.;};; applicants:, &l'e'''VetY'impressed · . ~Manynew,studentsreeeived a witb · tb~l college as ·a result of pamphlet· in<·. their Orientation, being ·'h~ by' ow. 'Stud~nt t}'tilekets witlr a resource list BodY. ., pttblisbed; by t~ Women~s If. yo-u wowrl' tilttHo· volunteer · Network. ()tbers stopped l1y the please contact any of the Women's Network ·booth at the follOWing Student Host · coor• Activities , Fair;· and older dinators ·aa' soon•· as·· pqssfble! students ave· familiar with ·our Why wait; e&ll' to'day1 · · annual Spring Teflil Women's fulve ~ttagli~Box 917) 254 Week. Y~t;O)any may wonder Oavidsotf House. Davels phone abOut the·puq,-ose·and activities number is 370\6542; of the Wometfs Network. Michele lfudson.:..Box 1692- We · striv'e to create a 101 Notth\mllege, conesivenessamnngthe women Lydia Muntagnao-Box: 10:83, of Union; til address and deal 101 North College. with the various social; political Michele and LydiaJs phone and emotional issues that you number is 87(1-6851. will be forced with in the next four years-and perhaps the rest of your life. We also realize the importance of integrating with the campus. community; men are always we~come as members, and tbeir input and support is encouraged. Thanks for the Welcome To the Union CommWlityt The Network itself tries to meet its goals through the functioning of three com- mittees: the Activities Com· mittee, which organizes and I would like to take time as publidzes all the Network classes are beginningto express activities such as speakers and • ~Y since~e th~nks ~o everyone workshops; the Action Comw mvolved ·m orumtation. I have mittee, which carries out the bt:en . deeply . moved by the more political activities of the frrendly_attitude uf the faculty, . group; and the Women~s Week . oruntatl(Jn committee;. and the Conunittee~ which takes on the orientatio~ . adviso:cs, I would sole ~sponsibillty of planning lik~ e~:~pecmlly to thank. Brian and carryfng out Women's Marks, Julie Isgro,, Ruth Ellen Week in spring term. Each Lewis;: and Todd Kierstead. committee needs new leaders As a . t!ansfer; .·· I . ~e . ex- and :members-we encourage an pecting little~ but recetved .a interested to come to nur great deal of. help~ warmth, and meetings. We have been very concern. ~~ activities ~~pt the active in the 'f)ast. and with your · days and mgbts £ull _.as weU as heltrcan continue to beso. Come having ~een run in a polish~~ juin \us 1 . . . . coonpetent, and enthusiastic Meetings~ Wednesdays, 7;SO way. . . . .. . . p.m. in the Women~s Room on In e~nsing I would like to say the third flOor of Carnegie Hall. that m the course of one Watch for our signs~ Carnegie. Editers-in-Chief Managing Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editor Campus Page Editors Rachel!. Mandel, Paul Grossman Julie Isgro Ed Albro Naomi Blank Judi Chervenak Bob Fox Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Sports Editors Jay McDermott, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Drew Hurley Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Photo Editor Mindy Broser Sports Photo Editor Steve Lerner Staff Steve Auerbach, Alan Binkow, Sue Bloomberg, Regina Gough, Doug Landon, Peter Mohr, D.C. Owens, Dan Booth, Donna Creeley, Cindy Tenner, Amelia Terhune Business Staff Jenny Amler, Evelyn Gurdin, Dianne Pavacic Photo Staff Janet Guiliano, Norman Pflaster CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 · Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription\ rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). ,_ r I I t I . ' I i 1 ' i (CPS)--1 panging, c gone. These rn America's more likel synthesised zaps of vid The ne~ just eight y1 now primi only pushil pinball n games and door, the~ customers swelling w Unions ~ cash in m than leasi games lil UCLA bou equipment to service supply U necessary student w Panatier. The resu owns 26vi, expects 19 hit $313,00( 1976-77. \The ga1 so popula1 limit it to guests,\ I had kids streets.\ Explaini -which ar, program~ Asteroids Targ ant popular is calculatin1 case currt Supreme( and ~ Associatio are pop1 provide \ exercise' \they're some so games ft titudes i.J perhaps ( F r t ~ (

OaNOOBDIENSIS, October 1; ·1981 Page 7 --------------~----------------~--- Video Fever From Where I Sta~d: (CPS)··The days of ping· panging, cUtter-clattering are that deals better with com· puters than with other people. Education Worth Saving gone. · These days the arcades of America's ·college unions are more likely to resound With synthesised blasts, bleeps and zaps of video games. The new games--launched just eight years ago with Atari's now primitive Pong-are not only pushing traditional union pinball macgines, foosball games and pool tables out the door, tbey're bringing new customers into the arcades and swelling union pro(its. Unions aren't hestiating to cash in on the trend. Rather than leasing or renting the games like most colleges, UCLA bought its own arcade equipment. \We train students to service the machines and supply them - with all the necessary equipment,\ says student union Director Mark - Panatier. The result is that now UCLA owns 26 video games. Panatier expects 1981 arcade ·profits to hit $313,000, up from $108,000 in 1976-77. \The game room has become so popular that we've had to limit it to students, faculty and guests,\· Panatier exults. \We had kids coming in off the streets.\ Explaining why video games- -which are actually computer programs with names like Asteroids, Space Invaders, Targ and . ?acMan--are so popular is .more complex _than calculating their profits. In a case currently before the U.S. Supreme Court, the Amusement and Music Operators Association argued the games are popular because they provide ''physical and mental exercise\. Panatier says \they're just plain fun.\ But some sociologists fear the games foster anti-social at- titudes in younger children, perhaps creating a . generation Other observers see the games as just more sophisticated pinball machines. ''The games are an escapist activity, an Qpportunity to relax and unwind after a hard day of classes,.\ contends David Strotld of Cinematronics, a California game manufacturing finn.. \The college players are much more sophisticated, and· seem to really get into the games more. u Anthl'opoligist -Dr. Edward Hall, author of Beyond Culture, sees something subconscious in it all. \What a lot of these games are providing now is an orientation to the future,\ Hall claims. Students are \getting practice for the sort of things they'll have to be doing in the future~ They may not know it yet, but these young people are growing up in a world we weren't born in, and they're preparing themselves for that W()rld.'' ~ ... Arcade games aren't the only fDim of campus entertainment· tD be revolutioniZed by video. Already, colleges .are beginning tD replace live concerts and performances with videotaped productions. · Fleetwood Mac, Paul Simon, Randy Newman and the Pretenders are just a few of the groups now available on video for public display. ' \Video is turning out to be the easiest way to reach the largest amount of people on college campuSes, simply because it can be repeated,\ says Toby Silberberg, national coor- dinator for Films, Inc., which distributes fihn and videotaped productions. \Music is now the most·asked-for form of video.\ More campuses are catching on.Vi<lEO \is just getting bigger ever-y day,\ SilQerberg says. \It's happening everywhere.\ \'this column reflects the opinions of an Individual and Is not, like the editorial, representative of the opinions of the entire editorial staff~ We acknowledge the existence of opposing opiDlons and recognize our l'e&ponsibllfty to air these opinions in tbe form of Letters tG the Editor. We at CON· CORDIENSIS Invite and en- courage such responses.\ From where I stand :By ALAN.BINKOW lfbis past week, President Reagan announced his \fall offensive''.ofbudget cuts. These included, among other things, the elimination of the Depart- ment of Education. He did, however, say that all \necessary functions\ of the Department would be tran- sferred to other departments in the government. One can't help but wonder who is going to decide what is necessary and what is not. I oppose the dissolution of the Department altogether, but let's -examine the main func- tions of the Department, see if we can afford their loss or change, and what would happ.en to them if the Department dissolves. 1 ) Financial Aid. The Dept. of EducatiDn provides millions of dollars in grants, work-study programs, scholarships, and loans, to undergraduate and postgraduate students across the country. According to the Financial Aid Office here at Union, upwards of 75 perc!Znt of the students depend on these dollars to help pay for their tuition. With the cost of education as high as it is, many millions of talented students could not go to college without federal aid. Is this a \necessary function?\ . Not likely. 3-WAYS TO GET STARTED FO-,R LI:·FE AFTER COLLEGE Reinforce your college degree and get a better start through Army ROTC. Get management training. Self--discipline. A sense of confidence. Earn the extra creden- tials that will set you apart as a re'sponsible achiever. You'll also receive $2500 over your last two years in the Advanced ROTC Program. Whether your career plans are civilian or military, Army ROTC provides opportunities for .both= active duty with a starting salary of over $14,300, or reserve service while employed in the civilian com~ munity. Get $tarted iriiArmy ROTC. THE BASIC. START Get started in Army ROTC through Basic Camp at Fort Knox, Kentucky, this summer. You'll ge~ $500 for atten- ding a. ct'laltenging six-week camp .. If your performance is exceptional; you just may qualify for a two-year \ scholarship as you enter the Ad- vanced Program. THE EA'RLY START If you are a veteran or a Junior ROTC graduate, then you started ear.ly - probably without realizing i1. That ear~y star! makes you automatically eligible to enter the Advanced Program. Y Call: Cpt. Bill Terhune~ 518-783-257,1, for mor~ info. What- Do You Want. From Collegel Adventure? Add It To Your Schedule. \ Try rappelhng. descend· 1ng aprec1plce by a tope and lhe seat of your pants The t~stest way down Ek· . cepl lor treQ tall Rappolhng ea-one Pllr1 ol a challenglniJ academiC arid e~tlracurncUiar pro, gramolforod by Army ROTC Army ROTC teach<\ pro leBSIOOIIIY Otl&nlad Stu denu to load pe6plo ind lo dire<: I eQUip mont to ach1eve spac1hc ObJeChvOI' aa an Acbvoor Rese~eOfflcer 1t you'Jelookmg.for tho challenge of 1eadersl11p.10 c.ollego and al1erwards 1 look 1nto Arrny ROTC ARMY ROTC LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD I 111 \.h \~ lllltllrll.llrt•ll t , \'' 1o 1 THE MULTIPLE START Start Army ROTC during your freshman or sophomore year with no military obligatiGn. You'll find a number. of ways to get started in a curriculum that's exciting, and flexi- ble enough to meet your class schedule and academic needs. In fiscal year 1982, these dollars were cut 33 percent. This cut went into effect on the · date of publication of this .ar- ticle. According to the Financial Aid Office, preliminary signs indicate that this function will be moved into the Treasury Department. They have in- dicated worry about more cuts, higher interest rates (including interest while in school), and too strict standards on \need\ because \it isn't the Depart- ment of Education.\ I WANTE.D To TAKE. 50Mf. f.CONQ'v\IC5 C.OURS£5 SO lCOUL.D UNDtR5TAND RE.AGANS Pol1Cit5, OOT I COULDN'T OCT A STUI:tNT l.OA,N .... 2) Degrees. The Department of Education maintains a very loose set of undergraduate and postgraduate degree standards. This basically assures an employer in Texas that two candidates holding B.A.'s from California and New York ac- credited schools are roughly equivalent. Is this a \necessary function? '' Well, if you asked the graduating seniors or that employer in Texas, you'd get a \yes\, but from President Reagan and staff, I don't know. President Reagan has this undying faith in the corporate sector, in that they will always act in the nation's good. In truth, the corporate sector tends to act in its own good, and if the nation suffers, well, those are the breaks! Presumably, this faith of the President extends to state governments as well. Although he hasn't said one way or another, I'd be willing to bet that Reagan thinks that the state governments will hQld to · their current standards without federal monitoring. And maybe they will, too. But try telling that to .our employer in Texas. Even if the federal government didn't enforce their standards, they did report which states did or did not comply. Without this reassurance, the employer has to now spend time comparing the B.A. programs in California and New York, seeing who is better qualified. In most cases, such an employer is not an educator, and is unable to decide. It is not worth the effort for him. It is more worthwhile for him to hire someone locally, where he knows the standards. It may become very difficult to get a job out-of-state. And ~ven if Reagan does consider this program necessary, where does he put it? Social Services? Social Services Department doesn't have enough room, and this isn't really a social service anyway. Human Resources? Education was moved out of HEW because it was being overwhelmed by the Health and Welfare sections' growtl~. Health and Welfare became Human Resources. Where, then? 3) The Department of Education was a Cabinet post. It gave the Secretary of Education the ear of the President in terms of suggesting policy, etc.; but more importantly, it raised the Secretary to a level roughly equivalent to his counterparts in other countries (notably England, France, and Germany), allowing hii:n to form internationally cooperative grants, studies, exchanges, etc, on a level never before possible. One of the most notable achievements of this was the 1979-80 multinational Holocaust study. Well, if the Department goes so does the cabinet post by definition. I won't say any more about it; you can all see the wealth of knowledge that will be closed to us here. 4) Most importantly, the Department of Education was instructed to design, im- plement, and enforce a basic minimum standard for public high school education in the United States. This was in- cluded because itwas generally thought that the education level was declining in this country, and something should be done abollt it. President Reagan has cited \lack of progress\ on this point as grounds for scrapping it. But the Department of Education is still in transition; it is still moving records out of HEW. It hasn't been given a chance!! This country has a vested interest in education: its future depends upon it. Let's defend that interest! This country has a long history of inventive and innovative achievement, but it cannot continue this tradition without strong educational support. That support depends on strong governmental in- V()lvement in education! 169 Jay Street Schenectady Specializing in Imported Clothing Indian Bedspreads Imported Cigarettes ~----·!Handmade Jewelry & Snuff Plus a wide selection Pipes and Papers Still stocking our complete line of merchandise!

·, '' ' CONOORDlENSIS, October 1, 1981 Page 7 --------------------------~---------- Video Fever From Where I Stand: (CPS)--The days of ping- panging, cUtter-clattering are gone. that deals better with com- puters than with other people. Education Worth Saving These days the arcades of America's college unions are more likely to resound with synthesised blasts, bleeps and zaps of video games. The new games--launched just eight years ago with Atari's now primitive Pong-are not only pushing traditional union pinball machines, foosball games and pool tables out the door, they're bringing new customers into the arcades and swelling union profits. Unions aren't hestiating to cash in on th.e trend. Rather than leasing or renting the games like most colleges, UCLA bought its own arcade equipment. \We train students to service the machines and supply them with all the necessary equipment,\ says student union Director Mark Panatier. The result is that now UCLA owns 26 video games. Panatier expects 1981 arcade profits to hit $313,000, up from $108,000 in 1976-77. \The game room has become so popular th.at we've had to limit it to students, faculty and guests,\ Panatier exults. \We had kids coming in off the streets.\ Explaining why video games- -which are actually computer programs with names like Asteroids, Space Invaders, Targ and PacMan--are so popular is more complex than calculating their profits. In a case currently before the U.S. Supreme Court, the Amusement and Music Operators Association argued the games are popular because they provide \physical and mental exercise\. Panatier says \they're just plain fun.\ But some sociologists fear the games foster anti-social at- titudes in younger children, perhaps creating a generation Other observers see the games as just more sophisticated pinball machines. \The games are an escapist activity, an opportunity to relax and unwind after a hard day of classes,\ contends David Stroud of Cinematronics, a California game manufacturing finn. \The college players are much more sophisticated, and seem to really get into the games more.\ Anthropoligist Dr. Edward Hall, author of Beyond Culture, sees something subconscious in it all. \What a lot of these games are providing now is an orientation to the future,\ Hall claims. Students are \getting practice for the sort of things they'll have to be doing in the future. They may not know it yet, but these young people are growing up in a world we weren't born in, and they're preparing themselves for that world.'' Arcade games aren't the only form of campus entertainment to be revolutionized by video. Already, colleges are beginning to replace live concerts and performances with videotaped productions. · Fleetwood Mac, Paul Simon, Randy Newman and the Pretenders are just a few of the groups now available on video for public display. \Video is turning out to be the easiest way to reach the largest amotmt of people on college campuses, simply because it can be repeated,\ says 'Toby Silberberg, national coor- dinator for Films, Inc., which distributes film and videotaped productions. \Music is now the most-asked-for form of vicieo.\ More campuses are caiching on. Video \is just getting bigger every day,\ Silberberg says. \It's happening everywhere.\ \This column reflects the optmons of an individual and is not, like the edt:torial, representa tlve of the opinions of the entire editorial staff. We acknowled~e the exiStence of opposing opinions and recognize our responsibility to air these opinions im the form of Letters to the Editor. We at CON- CORDIENSIS Invite and en- courage such responses.\ From where I stand By ALAN BINKOW This past week, President Reagan announced his ''fall offensive\ of budget cuts. These included, among other things, the elimination of the Depart- ment of Education. He did, however, say that all \necessary functions\ of the Department would be tran- sferred to other departments in the government. One can't help but wonder who is going to decide what is necessary and what is not. I oppose the dissolution of the Department altogether, but let's examine the main func- tions of the Department, see if we can afford their loss or change, and what would happen to them if the Department dissolves. 1) Financial Aid. 'l'he Dept. of Education provides millions of dollars in grants, work-study programs, scholarships, and loans, to undergraduate and postgraduate students across the country. According to the Financial Aid Office here at Union, upwards of 75 percent of the students depend on these dollars to help pay for their tuition. With the cost of education as high as it is, many millions of talented students could not go to college without federal aid. Is this a \necessary function? •' Not likely. 3 WAYS TO GET STARTED FOR LIFE AFTER COLLEGE Reinforce your college degree and get a better start through Army ROTC. Get management training. Self-discipline. A sense of confidence. Earn the extra creden- tials that will set you apart as a responsible achiever. You'll also receive $2500 over your last two years in the Advanced ROTC Program. Whether your career plans are civilian or military, Army ROTC provides opportunities for both- active duty with a starting salary of over $14,300, or reserve service while employed in the civilian com- munity. Get started in Army ROTC. THE BASIC START Get started in Army ROTC through Basic Camp at Fort Knox, Kentucky, this summer. You'll get $500 for atten- ding a cnallenglng six-week camp. If yourperlormanceisexcepUon~.you just may qualify for a two-year scholarship as you enter the Ad- vanced Program. THE EARLY START If you are a veteran or a Junior ROTC graduate, then you started early - probably without realizing it. That ear~y star1 makes you automatically eligible to enter the Advanced Program. / Call: Cpt. Bill Terhune, s 18-783-2571, for mor~ inf.o. What Do You Want From College? Adventure? Add It To Your Schedule. 1 ry r appall aog descend 1ng a proc •prce by a ropo and the seal ot your pants The laSIOS.l way down E• capt tor lre£11~11 A.apcull•no•a ono'-'11r1o1 a challungr ng academ•c •nU c~elracurllf,.l.llar pro grilm ollureo by Army ROTC Army ROTC tea~;.nos pro teasaon&lly orrented 'lu den1 s to 1eao peop•e 01no lo a.r&c;t CQ~o~lpmonttu dl;llteve s.pac•l•t otltCC hves as an Aclt\iC or Reserwe Otl•tor 11 you rEJ look•ng lor the challenoa ot IOaaersh•P sn coueoe ana alterwards lOOk onlo Army ROTC ARMY ROTC UARNWHAT IT 1AK[S 10 LlAD I •r \t .• , '\'•\\ ••·•HI •'<' THE MULTIPLE START Start Army ROTC during your fresh man or sophomore year with no military obligation. You'll f.ind a number of ways to get started in a curriculum that's exciting, and flexi- ble enough to meet your class schedule and academic needs. In fiscal year 1982, these dollars were cut 33 percent. This cut went into effeet on the · date of publication of this ar- ticle. According to the Financial Aid Office, preliminary signs indicate that thls .function will be moved into the Treasury Department. They have in- dicated worry about more cuts, higher interest rates (including interest while in school), and too strict standards on \need\ because \it isn't the Depart- ment of Education.\ I WI\NT:.D To TAKE. 50Mf. E!OI'K:MIC.5 CDURS£.5 50 I COULD UNDtR~TAND RtAGAN5 POLICIE5, BUT I COULDNi &T A ~TU~NT 1.0~ ... 2) Degrees. The DepartmeNt of Education maintains a very loose set of undergraduate and postgraduate degree standards. This basically assures an employer in Texas that two candidates holding B.A.'s from California and New York ac- credited schools are roughly equivalent. Is this a \necessary function?\ Well, if you asked the graduating seniors or that employer in Texas, you'd get a \yes\, but from President Reagan and staff, I don't know. President Reagan has this undying faith in the corporate sector, in that they will always act in the nation's good. In truth, the corporate sector tends to act in its own good, and if the nation suffers, well, those are the breaks! Presumably, this faith of the President extends to state governments as well. Although he hasn't said one way or another, I'd be willing to bet that Reagan thinks that the state governments will hold to their current standards without federal monitoring. And maybe they will, too. But try telling that to our employer in Texas. Even if the federal government didn't enforce their standards, they did report which states did or did not comply. Without this reassurance, the employer has to now spend time comparing the B.A. programs in California and New York, seeing who is better qualified. In most cases, such an employer is not an educator, and is unable to decide. It is not worth the effort for him. It is more worthwhile for him to hire someone locally, where he knows the standards. It may become very difficult to get a job out-of-state. And even if Reagan does consider this program necessary, where does he put it? Social Services? Social Services Department doesn't have enough room, and this isn't really a social service anyway. Human Resources? Education was moved out of HEW because it was being overwhelmed by the Health and Welfare sections' growth. Health and Welfare became Human Resources. Where, then? 3) The Department of Education was a Cabinet post. It gave the Secretary of Education the ear of the President in terms of suggesting policy, etc.; but more importantly, it raised the Secretary to a level roughly equivalent to his counterparts in other countries r notably England, France, and Germany), allowing him to form internationally cooperative grants, studies, exchanges, etc, on a level never before possible. One of the most notable achievements of this was the 1979-80 multinational Holocaust study. Well, if the Department goes so does the cabinet post by definition. I won't say any more about it; you can all see the wealth of knowledge that will be closed to us here. 4) Most importantly, the Department of Education was instructed to design, im- plement, and enforce a basic minimum standard for public high school education in the United States. This was in- cluded because it was generally thought that the education level was declining in this country, and something should be done about it. President Reagan has cited \lack of progress\ on this point as grounds for scrapping it. But the Department of Education is still in transition; it is still moving records out of HEW. It hasn't been given a chance!! This country has a vested interest in education: its future depends upon it. Let's defend that interest! This country has a long history of inventive and innovative achievement, but it cannot continue this tradition without strong educational support. That support depends on strong governmental in- volvement in education! 169 Jay Stree1 Schenectady Specializing in Imported Clothing ; ~;:!! Indian Bedspreads Imported Cigarettes .Handmade Jewelry & Snuff Plus a wide selection Pipes and Papers Still stocking our complete line of merchandise!

Page 8 Ge:neral Nottices LOST AND FOUND FOUND-One medium size tee-shirt at the Club Fair on September 22. Contact Rachel at 6155 for info. An invitation is extended to all of the friends and acquaintances of David Brind, to come to Schaffer Library's Circulation desk to view a book which is on \Safe-keeping Reserve\. (This means that the book does not leave the Library.) It was put together by a family friend who edited and published a group of articles and letterS entitled, David M. Brind, Bass Fisherman. This book is a precious token and an appropriate tribute to David. It was presented to Union College by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. David· M. Brind, and is available to all wbo come to the Library. OONCORDIENSIS, October 1 1 1981 National College Poetry Contest, Fall Concours 1981. offering $200 in cash and book prizes and free printing f,... \ Anthology,- will again be of special interest to all collegiate poets as it provides for them a source of inspiration and en- couragement and a unique, intercollegiate n1tt1,.t ~~.. H,.,, litr 3fjo =••w•• .. v•i.i3. i iit: lOf• thcoming ACP Anthology will be the 13th edition since it was first published in 1975. Since this poetry project is run by us on a non-profit margin, as a service to student talent, any free space you might wish to give our announcement would be greatly appreciated. The Youthgrants Program of the National Endowment for the Humanities is alive and well and will once again offer a limited nwnber of awards to young people in their teens and twenties to pursue non-credit, out-of-the-classroom research projects in the humanities. The deadline for receipt of com- pleted application forms is November 16, and funded projects begin the following May. If you are interested in the program, a copy of the guidelines should be available fe>r review at your campus Placement Office. If not, please write immediately to: Youthgrants Guidelines Mail Stop 103-C Oct. 9, 10 & 11 Watch for Sch.edule in Next Week's Paper • Ices National Endowment for the Humanities Washington, D.C. 20506 ATTENTION! ATTENTION! ATTENTION! ·ATTENTION! TUTORS NEEDED--Do you feel qualified• enough to tutor others ~nd earn extra $$$$$$$$$$ while doing it? Tf so Hte AOP Turoring :1eeds you! ! ! ! ! Applications are now :being accepted for all subject areas . for further information, please see: Maxine Meadows.Shuford, AOP Office, Bailey Hall, Room 101. Tuesday, October 13 Spanish Table: Professors Diez- Herencia, Ihrie and Vinick invite all Spanish-speaking members of the college ·com- munity to join them at 12:30 in the Pub, for conversation and lunch. All levels invited. Anyone interested in placing an item concerning Student Activities for any given week must- submit the information to Mrs. Marra by 3:00 on the Monday before the activity is to take place. There are still a few places available for the Term Abroad in Israel program for winter term, 1982. A prerequisite course in Hebrew 10 or its equivalent is necessary. Anyone interested in this program should contact the Terms Abroad office, Hum. 211 as soon as possible, as I?lans for the teqn are now underway. Thursday, October 1,. at 7:30- p.m. in SS 016, the Minerva Committee presents part one of the Fall Hispanic Film Series: Tristana, by Luis Bunuel, starring Catherine Deneuve. Eng. subtitles Gay discussi·on group organizational meeting. All welcome. Thursday Oct. 1 at 9 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge (Second Floor) . ATTENTION UNION COLLEGE WOMEN!! You can· get free professional improving your complexion, contouring your face, highlighting your features, and fall fashion colors. For more information, call Donna 370-6853 .. SWiday, October 4, is World Communion Sunday. For the first time on campus there will be a joint Catholic-Protestant Service. Father Cox and the ministers from the downtown Schenectady Protestant churches wil~ lead the service. It will be held at 7:30 in Strouss Lounge. There will be no 6:30 Protestant Service this week. Professor Josef Scbmee, Director; Institute of Administration and Management, Union ,College,. will present a lecture on the Power and Influence under Co- determination. ThiS talk reports on and interpretsthe findings of an empirical investigation of 86 companies. The lecture will be held Thursday, October 8 at 4 p.m. in room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. RED CROSS BLOODMOBILE Oct. 1 a'nd 2 in Strauss Lounge GIVE BLOOD! FUTTHISOUt I Bring this coupon, 1· along with your student I. D., ·1 into our Albany or 1 Schenectady gallery I and receive I I 200fo Off I I I on the area's largest I selection of art posters, 1 mounted or loose. I I : NifBB!.f!!! : Center City Plaza. Schenectady. N.Y. 377-3055 I I Robinson Square, Albany, N.Y. 434-4280 Coupon good through October 31, 1981 U ........... OIP Tlte Greek froiJt Sorority rush will begin on October 4 with open houses at Tri-Delta, Sigma Delta Tau and Delta Gamma. The last day for sign-up will be tomorrow, Friday, October 2 in Student Activities. Y o'u must sign up in order to go through rush. . Wild Party TQilight, Thursday October 1, · there will be a \wild party\ (according to Jay, Allen, and Rob) at Chi Psi. So go party at the Lodge! DU Hanoween Party On October 31 DU will be holding it's 112th Annual Halloween Party. There will be beer, punch, live band and prizes for the best costumed. GREEK WEEK OCT. 5·9 meet representatives of nationa I & toea I business, industry & government Discover w.hat iobs are available THURSDAY octl,l981 IOam~5pm UNION COLLfGE ALUMNI GYM ~NY Sponsored by Union College Schenectady Chamber of Commerce Hudson-Mohawk Assn. of Villages & Universities ~ off'\' . ,_ '.It ~;'( (f. ~\\ r\~~fo( ,.,..: V'r S1 Old fl acquaintE invited t versation (and 1iqui1 \ tl\ gemu 1, Stammtif Thursday MOUII For all working Costume1 Office, et~ Monday C Sign-Ups Nott Men can't m!U be sure Monday a Schi Ace Wed., Tues., throug~ p.m.; S Sunday Wed. p.m. Thur! Sun., 1'1 Mon. Fristay ll p.m Sat., Dec. ~ (pre·e> hours) Mon Thurs. 11 p.m Fri., p.m.

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, October 1, 1981 • Ices General Nottices LOST AND FOUND FOUND-One medium size tee-shirt at the Club Fair on September 22. Contact Rachel at 6155 for info. An invitation is extended to all of the friends and acquaintances of David Brind, to come to Schaffer Library's Circulation desk to view a book which is on ''Safe-keeping Reserve\. (This means that the book does not leave the Library.) It was put together by a family friend who edited and published a group of articles and letters entitled, David M. Brlnd, Bass Fisherman. This book is a precious token and an appropriate tribute to David. It was presented to Union College by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. David M. Brind, and is available to all who come to the Library. National College Poetry Contest, Fall ConcoW'S 1981. offering $200 in cash and book prizes and free printing '~\'- \ Anthology,· will again be of special interest to all collegiate poets as it provides for them a source of inspiration and en· couragement and a unique, intercollegiate cmtlPt '\\ .. ..,.,., litr- !lifj- ~--~ .. ·•\''. uJt: ~or· thcoming ACP Anthology will be the 13th edition since it was first published in 1975. Since this poetry project is run by us on a non-profit margin, as a service to student talent, any free space you might wish to give our announcement would be greatly appreciated. The Youthgrants Program of the National Endowment for the Humanities is alive and well and will once again offer a limited number of awards to young people in their teens and twenties to pursue non-credit, out-of-the-classroom research projects in the humanities. The deadline for receipt of com- pleted application forms is November 16, and funded projects begin the following May. If you are interested in the program, a copy of the guidelines should be available for review at your campus Placement Office. If not, please write immediately to: Youthgrants Guidelines Mail Stop 103-C National Endowment for the Humanities Washington, D.C. 20506 ATTENTION! ATTENTION! ATTENTION! ATTENTION! TUTORS NEEDED--Do yo-u feel qualified enough to tutor others and earn extra $$$$$$$$$$ while doing it? Tf se ·~e AOP Turoring :1eeds you.! ! ! ! ! Applications are now being accepted for all subject areas for further information, please see: Maxine Meadows.Shuford, AOP Office, Bailey Hall, Room 101. Tuesday, October 13 Spanish Table: Professors Diez- Herencia, Ihrie and Vinick invite all Spanish-speaking members of the college com· munity to join them at 12:30 in the Pub, for conversation and lunch. All levels invited. Anyone interested in placing an item concerning Student Activities for any given week must submit the information to Mrs. Marra by 3:00 on the Monday before the activity is to take place. There are still a few places available for the Term Abroad in Israel program for winter term, 1982. A prerequisite course in Hebrew 10 or its equivalent is necessary. Anyone interested in this program should contact the Terms Abroad office, Hum. 211 as soon as possible, as ~lans for the ~<Ung·· ~? ft fur my tapes!. : · · . ~o\;fcy~~~i(!~w.mo.~£31~ Widtldve:t:Y.oJtr ne~n~~ .. mgpys!l$9theand.vlsit! uwe; ... . . . . ........ . Sue-I live f-or study breaks. T.:B, . . ... . -'' -·· -·-'- . . . . Pl.t~Ni.e~ assr • -• • · W~at knees. lf~l·better..\ ;T~g. ILB.L. Here I ' am in ScJ;ieneCU~qy. Luy Jta:·. J.L.C. .... ,,,. -~:- ·,<. \• .' ... -./.h:t::.~:::· ... ··_, ·--··' -· ... To · ··· ·. ( ··.l)f · too m~~ me' a l'~l find. yuu a for~:C-:t,~;pg;, !C> (C'm4~l · · · · ;oo scm.th\\9reat party~lc~p . up . t~ gptld work!. Love~ ~o tJiliOcn Av~:· •. •· · >· ·· lifn' .. ~ . ' . . < --::<,.- ' ' .. ... e~\i~ _ ...... _ (. .. ~ , , , <~ :<.----'. ::~ :r term are now unaerway. Thursday, October 1, at 7:30 p.m. in SS 016, the Minerva Committee presents part one of the Fall Hispanic Film Series: Trlstana, by Luis Bunuel, starring Catherine Deneuve. Eng. subtitles Gay discussion group organizational meeting. All welcome. Thursday Oct. 1 at 9 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge (Second Floor). ATTENTION UNION COLLEGE WOMEN!! You can· get .free professional improving your complexion, contouring your face, highlighting your features, and fall fashion colors. For more information, call Donna 370-6853. . Sunday, October 4, is World Communion Sunday. For the first time on campus there will be a joint Catholic-Protestant Service. Father Cox and the ministers from the downtown Schenectady Protestant churches will lead the service. It will be held at 7:30 in Strouss Lounge. There will be no 6:30 Protestant Service this week. Professor Josef Schmee, Director, Institute of Administration and Management, Union ,College, will present a lecture on the Power and Influence under Co- determination. This talk reports on and interprets the findings of an empirical investigation of 86 companies. The lecture will be held Thursday, October 8 at 4 p.m. in room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. RED CROSS BLOODMOBILE Oct. 1 and 2 in Strauss Lounge GIVE BLOOD! puTTHISOUt I Bring this coupon, 1 olong with your student I .D., I . intoourAibanyor 1 Schenectady gallery I and receive 1 I 200fo Off I I on the area's largest I I selection of art posters, I mounted or loose. I I 1 1 POfilas PLUS 1 1 Galleries Center City Plaza. Schenectady, N.Y 377-3055 I I Robinson Square. Albany, N.Y. 434-4280 . Coupon good through October 31. 1981 U • ......... .. O.Q T}fe Greek froiPt Ho~(leomlng Ott. 9, 10 & 11 Watc:h for Schedule in Next Week's Paper Sorority rush will begin on October 4 with open houses at Tri-Delta, Sigma Delta Tau and Delta Gamma. The last day for sign-up will be tomorrow, Friday, October 2 in Student Activities. You must sign up in order to go through rush. WHdParty TQnight, Thursday October 1, there will be a \wild party\ (according to Jay, Allen, and Rob) at Chi Psi. So go party at the Lodge! DU Halloween Party On October 31 DU will be holding it's 112th Annual Halloween Party. There will be beer, punch, live band and prizes for the best costumed. GREEK WEEK OCT. 5·9 meet representatives of national & local business, industry & government Discover what jobs are available THURSDAY OCT.I,I9SI 10am-5pm UNIOtJ COLLEGE AUJMNIGYM .SCUfNfCTAOY, NY Sponsored by Union College Schenectady Chamber of Commerce Hudson-Mohawk Assn. of Villages & Universities ~ ~t:£,~(, . ~ sa ~t on (t. .. ..A.\' r\o.e~~( fV'~ ... r,.-- I i . . ~ I I ! ) ! s Old I acquaint invited versation (and liqu \gemutl Stammti Thursda~ Mou For al working CostumE Office, e· Monday Sign-Up Nott Me. can't rna be sure Monday Sci Ac Wed Tues., throug p.m.; Sunda Wed p.m. Thu Sun., Mor Frida 11 p.n Sat. Dec. (pre-e hours Mor Thurs ll p.r Fri p.m.

OONOORDIENSIS, October 1~ 1981 Page 9 ' '\ p {··\ 'BZ YEARBOOK SMITH HOUSE PARTY .; '1,. • • .>. • • • • :· .. ~· · \\<.1 L. \) ... ~~ :.\ -h· 6 ·, Th · ·u· be bo k \\\'\..; •..• ~ .... .e. .__.,~· .. ~··, ere WI · a year o The brothers and sisters of Sigma Omega Sigma (alias SMim House) ·cordially invite the Union community to the long awaited Smith House Rusb Party. Be illegitimate. Rush Smith House. Come dressed as your favorite fraternity or ----...:.:.~~~~_..;;;.-_........;~· meeting at 4:30 on Friday in STAMMTISCH Conference Room A. Anyone - interested in working on the '82 Old friends and new yearbook should attend!! acquaintances are heartily invited to a ·German con~ versation table. Enjoy solid (and liquid) refreshments in a \gemutlich\ atmospnere. Stammtisch is held every Thursday noontime in the Pub. Mountebilolcs Meeting For all those .interested in working on . Sets, Lights, Costumes, Publicity, Box Office, etc. In Strauss Lounge, Monday October 5 at 4:30P.M. Sign-Up sheets are also in the Nott Memorial theater. If you can't milke the meeting, please be sure to sign-Up before Monday afternoon. Schae.ffer Library Hours Academic Year, 1981·82 Fall Term Wed., Sept. 23, 1981 through Tues., Nov. 24, 1981--Mondays through F=ridays, 8:30 a.m.-11 p.m.; Saturdays, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sundays, 12 noon-11 p.m_ Wed., No,v. 25, 1981: 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Thurs., Nov. 26, 1981 through Sun., Nov. 29, 1981: closed Mon., Nov. 30, 1981 through · Fric;lay, Dec. 4, 1981: 8:30a.m.- ll p.m. Sat., Dec. 5, 1981 and Sun., Dec. 6, 1981: 9 a.m.-11 p.m. (pre-exam weekend extended hours) Mon., Dec. 7, 1981 through Thurs., Dec. 10,1981: 8:30a.m.- 11 p.m. Fri., Dec.11,1981: 8:30a.m.-5 p.m_ PRE-HEALTH PiCNIC The Pre-Health Society is sponsoring an all-campus picnic in Jackson's Gardens on Saturday, Oct. 3 (raindate, Sunday, Oct. 4) from noon to sundown. There'll be plenty of food, drink and music, so brace yourself against the cold and go have a great time! ! ELECTIONSCOMMITrEE The first Elections Com- mittee meeting of the year will be held on Oct. 6 at 7:00PM in the Pub. It iS obligatory for member's and all others in· terested are welcome. Baird the Bard Continued. fro&w»age ·5 on the beat as to the change in the law.\ . One .of the ,problems is that cops, the local precinct only . hear the few complaints. ·, Unnoticed is the large, always shifting crowd, around the street performer. Indeed, street performers very existence is a testimonial to their popularity. If people didn't enjoy them, they couldn't make a living. Baird can make $15-20 an hours., although $3-10 is the average. PRE-LAW ANNOUNCEMENT SCHEDULE OF LAW SCHOOL VISITORS TO UN ION COLLEGE Columbia Univ.: 9-29-81, 9-12 p.m., James M. Milligan, Rep. Univ. of Bridgeport School of Law: 10-2-81, 9-11 a.m., Paula ' A. Elizeus, Rep. N.Y.University: 10-7-81, 1-3:30 p.m., Nan McNamara, Rep. Dickinson School of Law: 10-13-81, 9-11:30 a.m_, Harvey Feldman, Rep. Washington & Lee U.: 10-14-81, 3-4:30 p.m., Dean Roy L. Stein helmer, Rep. Adelphi U. (par.alegal prog.): 10-14-81, 2:30-4:30 p.m., Jocelyn Freid, Rep. Vermont Law School: 10-22-81, 10-12:30 p.m., L. Leslie Peat, Rep. Pace U. School of Law: 11-3-81, 9-12 p.m., MaryAnn Daly, Rep. Western New England School of Law: 11-18-81, 1-4 p.m., Marjory Sullivan, Rep. Meetings will take place in the Placement Offices, where advance sign-up sheets are also available. sorority. Tuesday night, October 6, Go Greek, or don't go at all! CONCERT The Union College Concert Committee presents Don McLean and Livingston Taylor in Concert at the Memorial It is a shame that for doing what he was once lUred to do as Massachusetts bi~centennial representative, performing at· the Kennedy Center, Stephan Baird was kicked out of Car- negie Hall into the rain. Although unthinking bureaucrats were admittedly harried with orientation and Chapel on Friday, Oct. 9. Tickets are now on sale and can be obtained for $6:50 with a Union I.D. at the new box: office in Carnegie Hall. registration, Baird's music was there as a diversion for just that reason. If only people would slow down and stop to listen. As Stephan Baird said, \They set aside areas for cigarette ven· ding machines on campuses, why not set aside areas for street musicians and other artists?\ POOL HOURS Mon.-Fri. ·Saturday Sunday Mon.-Thur. Friday Saturday Sunday Mon-Thur. Friday Saturday Sunday 11: 30-3: 30, 7: 00-9: ()0 12:00-4:00,7:00-9:00 1: 30-4: 30,7:00-9:00 ALUMNI GYM HOURS 8:30 a.m.-11: 00 p.m. 8:30 a.m.-9:00p.m. 9:00 a.m.-9:00p.m. 9:00 a.m.-11: 00 p.m. FIEL.D HOUSE HOURS 8:30 a.m.-11: 00 p.m. 8: 30 a.m.-9:00p.m. 9: 00 a.m.-9:00p.m. 9:00 a.m.-11: 00 p.m. I Film CommiHee Schedule Change Instead of showing 11 The Maltese Falcon\ 11 HEAVEN CAN WAIT'' will be shown on Tues. at 7, 9, & 11 Courtesy of the American Express Co. FREE ADMISSION ss 016 Film Committee Presents: The Electric Horseman w/Robert Redford and Jane Fonda Oct. 2, 3, 4 at 7, 9 and 11 55 016 1st FIJI PARTY OF THE TERM 10 p.m Friday Nite at the hous BEER PUNCH BE THERE!!! \,o ..,_ • ',t -_ - .. ' ~ ' ...... ·,.. .0\l -~ • .. ,., ~ • ' .. ~ It: • ir,.. - • - ·-~ II -. • ' '\ ' , \ • . \ ' •,• .~). J.,..., • ~-.

I I '~ l I I ' { . l I I I \ I . I I : i I 'l ' [ I I I CONOORDIENSIS, October 1, 1981 Page 9 ' ' ' ''- D P ~' ·\ l ., • , \ . o' \ • • •, ;· ~l· . '82 YEARBOOK ~ ~ . -~ SMITH ROUSE PARTY \\ ~ t.. ... , o :, ~·b · Th ·n be \'~ k .___,.. _;. 0 •• -.. .... .e- ·J~ ~ •• • ere WI' · a yearuuo The brothers and sisters of Sigma Omega Sigma (alias SMITH House) cordially invite the Union community to the long awaited Smith House Rush Party. Be illegitimate. Rusb Smith House. Come dressed as your favorite fraternity or ___ ...:.:::..:..;~~~---;_.-.....1 meeting at 4:30 on Friday in STAMMTISCH Old friends and new acquaintances are heartily invited to a German con· versation table. Enjoy solid (and liquid) refreshments in a \gemutlich\ atmosphere. Stammtisch is held every Thursday noontime in the Pub. Mountebanks Meeting For all those interested in working on Sets, Lights, Costumes, Publicity, Box Office, etc. In Strauss Lounge, Monday October 5 at 4:30P.M. Sign-Up sheets are also in the Nott Memorial theater. If you can't make the meeting, please be sure to sign-up before Monday afternoon. Schaeffer Library Hours Academic Year, 1981-82 Fall Term Wed., Sept. 23, 1981 through Tues., Nov. 24, 1981--Mondays through t=ridays, 8:30 a.m.-11 p.m.; Saturdays, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sundays, 12 noon-11 p.m. Wed., Nov. 25, 1981: 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Thurs., Nov. 26, 1981 through Sun., Nov. 29, 1981: closed · Mon., Nov. 30, 1981 through Friday, Dec. 4, 1981: 8:30a.m.- 11 p.m. Sat., Dec. 5, 1981 and Sun., Dec. 6, 1981: 9 a.m.-11 p.m. (pre-exam weekend extended hours) · Mon., Dec. 7, 1981 through Thurs., Dec. 10, 1981: 8:30a.m.- 11 p.m. Fri., Dec. 11,1981: 8:30a.m.-5 p.m. Conference Room A. Anyone interested in working on the '82 yearbook should attend! ! PRE-HEALTH PICNIC The Pre-Health Society is sponsoring an aU-campus picnic in Jackson's Gardens on Saturday, Oct. 3 (raindate, Sunday, Oct. 4) from noon to sundown. There'll be plenty of food, drink and music, so brace yourself against the cold and go have a great time! ! ELECTIONS COMMITI'EE The first Elections Com- mittee meeting of the year will be held on Oct. 6 at 7:00 PM in the Pub. It is obligatory for members and all others in- terested are welcome. Baird the Bard Continued fr~age 5 on the beat as to the change in the law.\ One of the problems is that · cops, the local precinct only hear the few complaints. Unnoticed is the large, always · shifting crowd, around the street performer. Indeed, street performers very existence is a testimonial to their popularity. If people didn't enjoy them, they couldn't make a living. Baird can make $15-20 an hours, although $3-10 is the average. PRE-LAW ANNOUNCEMENT SCHEDULE OF LAW SCHOOL VISITORS TO UNION COLLEGE Columbia Univ.: 9-29-81,9-12 p.m., James M. Milligan, Rep. Univ. of Bridgeport School of law: 10-2-81,9-11 a.m., Paula A. Elizeus, Rep. N.Y.University: 10-7-81, 1-3:30 p.m., Nan McNamara, Rep. Dickinson School of Law: 10-13-81, 9-11:30 a.m., Harvey Feldman, Rep. Washington & Lee U.: 10-14-81, 3-4:30 p.m., Dean Roy L. Steinheimer, Rep. Adelphi U. (paralegal prog.): 10-14-81, 2:30-4:30 p.m., Jocelyn Freid, Rep. Vermont Law School: 10-22-81, l0-12:30p.m., L. Leslie Peat, Rep. Pace U. School of Law: 11-3-81, 9-12 p.m., MaryAnn Daly, Rep. Western New England School of Law: 11-18-81, l-4 p.m., Marjory Sullivan, Rep. Meetings will take place in the Placement Offices, where advance sign-up sheets are also available. sorority. Tuesday night, October 6. Go Greek, or don't go at all! CONCERT \ . ' - \'\ ' . The Union College Concert Committee presents Don McLean and Livingston Taylor in Concert at the Memorial Chapel on Friday, Oct. 9. Tickets are now on sale and can be obtained for $6.50 with a Union I.D. at the new box office in Carnegie Hall. It is a shame that for doing what he was once hired to do as Massachusetts bi-centennial representative, performing at· the Kennedy Center, Stephan Baird was kicked out of Car- negie Hall into the rain. Although unthinking bureaucrats were admittedly harried with orientation and registration, Baird's music was there as a diversion for just that reason. If only people would slow down and stop to listen. As Stephan Baird said, \They set aside areas for cigarette ven- ding machines on campuses, why not set aside areas for street musicians and other artists?\ POOL HOURS Mon.-Fri. Saturday Sunday Mon.-Thur. Friday Saturday Sunday Mon-Thur. Friday Saturday Sunday 11:30-3: 30,7:00-9: 00 12:00-4:00,7:00-9:00 1: 30-4: 30, 7: 00-9: 00 ALUMNI GYM HOURS 8: 30 a.m.-11: 00 p.m. 8:30 a.m.-9: 00 p.m. 9:00 a.m.-9:00p.m. 9:00a.m.-11:00 p.m. FIELDHOUSE HOURS 8:30 a.m.-11: 00 p.m. 8:30 a.m.-9:00p.m. 9:00 a.m.-9:00p.m. 9:00 a.m.-11: 00 p.m. Film Committee Schedule Change Instead .of showing 11 The Maltese Falconrr 1 'HEAVEN CAN WAIT'' will be shown on Tues. at 7, 9, & 11 Courtesy of the American Express Co. FREE ADMISSION ss 016 Film Committee Presents: The Electric Horseman w/Robert Redford and Jane Fonda Oct. 2, 3, 4 at 7, 9 and 11 55 016 1st FIJI PARTY OF THE TERM 10 pim Friday Nite at the house BEER- PUNCH BE THERE!!!

Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS, October 1, 1981 New Women's Coaches Granlund going for the s_pike Spikers Open By CATHY GIFFORD What happens when two seniors, six juniors, two sophol)lores, and three fresh- men get together to form Union College's 1981 varsity volleyball team? They look forward to an optimistic season! After placing 7th in New York State last year, the squad consists of returning players Alicia Granlund (captain), Kelly Green, Amy Hinshaw, Natalie Stone, Kathleen Schatzle, Brenda Hugick (captain}, Karen Roth, Catherine Gifford, and Jodi Brenner, with newcomers ·Suzanne Gabriel, Laura over the day. It was a learning experience for us and will help us to eliminate errors over the season,\ cem:mented Coach Lynn Barta; ''Laura· Berrish did an excellent job and Cheri Wong helped to spark the team. The freshmen will really help this year. We have a good bench and a lot of potential.'' Barta cited Laura Berrish as the most valuable player on the squad for the week. The first home match of the se~son is October 2 against Pace at 7:00 p.m. All home games will be played in the field house. Come and support Union athletics! By CHRIS PHELAN There's good news from the Athletic Department this fall. Union now has two new women's sports coaches. Mary Gillespie is the full-time coach for the women's soccer team, and She will also be the assistant coach for the basketball team, and head coach for the softball team next spring. She is from Haines Falls, New York; she earned her B.A. at S.U.N.Y. Albany and her M.S. in recreation and physical education at Springfield College in Springfield, Massach~etts. She has coached softball at RPI, field hockey and softball at Hudson Valley Community College, and basketball at Berkshire Community College. Coach Gillespie was also _a physical education and recreation instructor at HVCC and Berkshire. Her past em- ployment experiences include recreational ·therapy for the mentally retarded and those suffering from cerebral palsy. She learned from this ex- perience, and sees recreational therapy as a social and educational outlet for the handicapped. Mary Gillespie is very interested in the rights of the handicapped, but says that coaching arid teaching is her first love. She Is. very pleased to be at Union College, and thinks that it is a good. sign for the future of women's sports that Union College now has three full time coaches. Leslie ArakeUan will be coaching women's tennis part- time. She is from mass Lake, New York, and majored in art at St. Lawrence University. Aside from teaching an adult education course in tennis this summer, this .is her first coaching job. ln 1968, she was ranked 4th in the East, in the Junior Division. She is happj~st playing doubles tournaments, and recently played in tbe Schenectady Open, the Wellbourne and Purdy, the Woodbridge, New Jersey, Glens Falls, Utica and Rochester events. She won both the Ridgefield Singles and the Schenectady Doubles Toura nament. Coach Arakelian likes the people she has met and coached at Union. She .says that she is more competitive than most of the women :might be at Union, and she understands that is difficult to compete academically and athletically at the same time. Also, -since there is no .physical education major at Union, there is a difference in the level of cDmJX)titivespirit. She says that it is O.K. to experiment, but once you do something, do it well. On Monday, Sept. 27, the tennis team played Hamilton but were defeated 2-5; Union won its t'wo matches ln tie- breakers. The other scores were relatively close, and the coach was pleased with the team's ·performance. Many veteran players return to the tennis team this fall, including S()phomore Julie Miller, an ol.ltstaAding player from last year, who claimed the best overall performance of a Union tennis player in the New York State Tourney. They travel to Sage tomorrow at 4 p.m., and host Middlebury on October 5 at 3:30p.m. Upcoming Women's Sports Berrish, Louisa Rooney, and Cheri-Ann Wong. The Dut· chwomen graduated only one senior from !ast year's squad, and boast much strength for this season. Stickers Return Cross Country 10-3 Middlebury, Coast Guard 12:30 -A The squad met its toughest opponents September 26 at the Albany Great Dane Tour- nament. They dropped matches to Brooklyn (Division I) 4-15, 15- 3, and 7-15; to St. Lawrence (Division III) 10.15, 15-10, and 8- 15; and to Brockport (Division ·II) 11-15, 9-15. Although the team was shaken by injuries at the start of the tournament, \the play improved 100 percent Attention Women: There will be an, organizational meeting . TONIGHT for ali women interested in playing varsity basketball this season, at 7 p.m. in the Block U Room of the Alumni Gym. Winter physicals will be October 4, at 8:15 p.m. in Achilles Rink. See Coach Lynn Barta in the Alumni Gym if you have any questions. Union College's Field Hockey team, under the direction of Coach Marty Morrison, looks forward to an optimistic season this year, following the tradition they established last year. Coach Morrison will have eight starters and a total of 10 players returning from last year's team, which posted its second consecutive regular-season record of 8-1·1 before finishing with a 9-3-1 log in 1980. Heading the returnees is Lisa Stein, a three year starter, while four other players have been on the squad the past two seasons. During the regular 19aO· season, the Dutchwomen out-· scored their opponents by a 24-8 margin while recording five shutouts in the 10 games. Based on the strong group of returning players, Morrison is expecting another fine season and a third straight bid to the NYSAIA W Tournament. The Dutchwomenlost the first game of the season on Sep- tember 25 to Manhattanville, 2- 0. A total of 12 shots were made - during the match, 6 by Union and 6 by Manhattanville; goalie Johanna Briggs claimed four saves. The team dropp~d their second game at Russell Sage, 2- 1. Sage tried 15 shots during the course of the game, and Union attempted 10. Junior Holly Wishes to welcome back Union students and faculty and also to rneetthe new students We're proud to have been serving Union since 1912 at the corner of State St. and Erie Blvd. in the \Old\ State Arcade- 377-1515 - 5 Barber/Stylists High in quality, low in price (Same as last year) We appreciate your business Howard scored Union's goal and Briggs made 13 saves. Hamilton dominated the third game of Union's season, 1-0, bringing. Union's record to 0-3. Union travels to Smith next, on October 3, before hosting Oneonta at 3:30 on October 7. Volleyball Field Hockey Tennis 10-2 10-5 1:0-3 10-2 10-5 10-7 Pace Siena .Smith A & B Oneonta A.& B Russell Sage Middlebury Oneonta 7:00 H 7:00 A l: 00 . A 3:30 H 4:00 A 3:30 H 3:30 H DUTCH HOLLOW P.UB ALL NEW MENU - RIB & BEEF SATidRDA Y NIGHT 5:00 - 8:00 Prime Rib of Beef au ius Broiled Crab Legs with clarified butter Rib and Reef Combination Veal ala Pub New York Sirloin Steak with go I den on ion rings Broiled Scallops Sauteed Breasts of Chicken on bed of rice A II dinners served with potato, vegetable, soup, and salad bar. The bar will be open for cocktails,' beer, and wine~ Please make .reservations by calling the Pub at 370-6051 between 2 and 4 p.m. 'HOI The U Cross C01 1981 seas< a split of Central 1 were blitl team 1~ salvage Oneonta.: led a gro nersacro: record til five-mile Dellehunt were the the meet. .for a tent Contois v harrier tc time of 27 scoring f( Paul \Ho Mark \B' 29:10 an( Two mor• special Dave B~ Rug By~ The U1 Club ''los1 war\ Sa1 opener a~ A which 1 veterans well-prac· our team score of kicker pu field and throughtl for nine o in the sec the ball «J score wit: · accountm The pic sided as dicate, tl players 1 play. C:: narrowly kicks wh the tide f< these pen points i playing v veterans Carlin, Zaltas. 0 were Joe Serelli, a In gam to turn Si 6-4. Unio when ve placed a through~ the first second down fiel extra po: Down 4- Union's J penalty goalpost front to s In this 11 hard-bitt: and fre1 ·BaumgaJ Then tl to their t thetiebrE s A·

- CONOORDIENSIS~ October 1, 1981 Page 11 Harriers Begin Slow The Union College Men's Cross Country team opened its 1981 season on Wednesday with a split of a double-dual meet at Central Park. The Dutchmen were blitzed by a strong Siena team 15-;50, but managed to salvage a 25-42 win over Oneonta. Rich Coughlin of Siena led a group of nine Siena run- ners across the finish line with a record time of 25:51 over the five-mile course. Dave Dellehunt and Ed Arnheiter · were the top Union runners in the meet., each clocldng 26:48 .for a tenth place finish. Denny Contois was the third garnet harrier to cross the line, in a time of 27:30. Eounding out the scoring for the Dutchmen were Paul \Hosey\ Palas11ewski and Mark \Bjorn\ Arienti running 29:10 and 29:50 respectively. Two more competitors deserve special mention: freshman Dave Barrett turned in an impressive time of 29:55\ in his Union College debut and John \Wizard\ Wisniewski earned a spot on the varsity squad with a 31-minute effort. Saturday, the Dutchmen were upended for the second time in a w~ek by a Division I powerhouse; this time the loss was suffered at the hands of Colgate University. The lone bright spot of the day for the Dutchmen was provided by junior captain \Steady\ Eddie Arnheiter. Ed secured a second place finish with a time of 26:03. After the race Arnheiter quipped, ''I look upon this meet as a stepping stone that may contribute to my success in the near future; I'm jfist starting to get warmed up.\ Rounding out the top five finishers for Union: Dellehunt placed eighth, .John Casale ninth, Arienti twelfth, and Contois fifteenth. The 1-2 Dutchmen host Hamilton at Central Pa~k on Wednesday. Ruggers Open Season By SCOTT COLLINS The Union Rugby Football Club \lost the battle but won the war\ Saturday in its season opener against Siena. In game A which pitted the experienced veterans of Union against the well-practiced ruggers of Sieria, our team was defeated by a score of 15-0. Siena's penalty kicker put two kicks from mid- field and one from 35 meters through the uprights accounting for nine of Siena's points. Later in the second half Siena pushed the ball over the goalline for a score with the extra point kick · accounting for Siena's points. Union ruggers romped over the Siena opponents. The team totally outsung, outdrank and .outchugged their weary op- position. In the words of captain Conway, \We lost the war, but we won the battle.\ The team is still looking for more players as tri-captains Conway, Serelli and Zaltas are urging all those interested to come out for the team, no ex- perience needed. The team pract.ices Tuesday thrt>ugh Friday at four o'clock on the West College field. So, if in- terested, come out and be \one of the few, the proud, the URF- C.\ Harriers lined up at the starting line Rugby and Union College By MICHAEL SHARP \The battle of Waterloo was won on the playing fields of Eton.\ Wellington said, it, but few people · realize what was played at Eton, the prestigious English grammar school, that enabled his army to defeat Napoleon. If you want to know the answer go to West College at four p.m. on any weekday. You'll see exactly what Wellington was referring to, rugby. Rugby, a fleet-footed heavy contact game, has been around for many years. No one is quite sure when it originated but it received its first official status at Rugby, an English grammar school. The sport spread to other grammar schools, then throughout England, and finally through the rest of the world. Currently, it is the national sport of Wales, South Africa, and New Zealand. It came to the United States with the waves of immigrants in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The New York and Boston areas were the homes of the earliest American Rugby clubs. The sport spread throughout the northeast where even today it is more popular than anywhere else in the · country. The sport came to colleges with well-to-do students in the early half of this century. It was an acceptable upper class sport along with games like polo and cricket. It was a fashionable way for rich businessmen and professionals to toughen up their offspring. It ·came from England and everyone knew that only gentlemen played rugby. As far as anyone can remember the sport has always been at Union College. It was here before football, before baseball, and before most any other ~port. school and partly from team dues. They play two games every Saturday against other schools or area clubs. Few people realize the stamina needed to play the game. A player runs over six miles during the .. two forty minute halves. There are no breaks in the play except for injuries and a ten minute halftime. With Rugby, contact is the name of the game. The sport is 75 percent tackling. No matter what position one plays, one has to know how to hit and how to hit hard. Every man is assigned an opposing player and they cannot allow him to get past. A missed tackle often results in an opposing score. The play wasn't totally one- sided as the score might in- dicate, though. Several Union players turned in outstanding play. Captain Tom Conway narrowly missed two penalty kicks which may have turned the tide for the Union ruggers as these penalties came at crucial points in the game. Also, playing well in the serum were veterans Paul Seletsky, Jody Carlin, and captain Dave Zaltas. On the line playing well were Joe Cardino, captain Eric Serelli, and Lee Waxman. Kinns Drafted The elub is run entirely by the students. They manage finances, schedule- games, and even line the playing field. They get their money partly from the Due to the contact involved, injury is also a major factor of the sport. Broken bones, sprained muscles, and abrasions are frequent oc- currances. A player's only defense is to stay in shape and keep his head up during play. But Rugby is more than just a sport. It is a social event. Not only does the team play together, it drinks together. In game B, Union came back to turn Siena away by a tally of 6-4. Union was first to score when veteran Jeff DeMarco placed a drop-kick field goal through good for three. Then in the first five minutes of the second half~ Siena stormed down field for a touchdown, the extra point missing its mark. Down 4-3 late in the game, Union's Bob Waaler placed a penalty kick through the goalpost to put the team out front to stay with the score 6-4. In this game there was some'\ hard-hitting play by T .J. Bailey . and freshman rookies Doug Baumgarten and Scott Collins. Then the two teams moved on to their post~game party where the tiebreaker was set. Here the Support Union Athletics Glen Kinns, ace righthander for the Schenectady Baseball Club and nearby Union Conege, signed a contract with the Montreal Expos Sept. 21 at a press conference held at Canali's Restaurant in Schenectady. Kinns, 20, was signed by Expos' scout AI Harper and will report to Montreal's rookie team in Daytona Beach, FL next March. Terms of the contract were not released. \I think this is an excellent opportunity for Glenn,\ said Hank Caputo, president of the Schenectady Baseball Club, Inc. and general manager of the State Color team. \I've watched him pitch for nearly six years and he has always impressed me with his control and com- petitive spirit. I think he'D do -------------'.Glen Kinns very well.\ Kinns, ' 6'1, 180-pounder from Burnt Hills, posted a 21-6 record with 193 strikeouts in 150 innings and a 2.25 earned run average in two years with the Schenectady Baseball Club. A tmee-year member of the Union College staff, Kinns shows a 13-13 record, 175 strikeouts in 190 innings, and a 2.30 ERA. A 1978 graduate of Burnt Hills High School, Kinns is currently in his senior year at Union majoring in English. He will attend Union for the fall and ·winter terms bef~re reporting to the minors. Kinns has in- dicated that he will finish his degr.ee next fall. \I'm very excited about the chance of playing professional baseball,\ said Kinns. \I've dreamed about it all my life.'' ''O.T.'' By DAVE RUDEN With the present football season four games old, Giant fans have reason to be cautiously optimistic. Ray Perkins' boys are showing signs of breaking out of the bubble that has resigned them to mediocrity. Mind you, a great deal of improvement is needed for the Giants to grow from pretender to contender. Sunday's game against Dallas confirmed that the Giants can be competitive against the league's best. On offense the team showed signs of moving the ball, though most of the drives ended short of paydirt. The 3-4 defense did a superlative job of containing Tony Dorsett; he was rarely a factor in the game. Other than two or tbree breakdowns on passing 'plays the defense responded to the call all day long. On two different occasions the Cowboys had the ball within the Giant ten y~ar line only to come away with a grand total of three points. Undoubtedly, the defense is the key to the team. Perkins has built a 3-4 defense that is maturing with each game. The bastion of the defense is the linebackers. Brad Van Pelt and Harry Carson are both All-Pro performers. Brian Kelley is one of the most underrated per- formers in the leagu~. In Lawrence Taylor the Giants may have the rookie of the year. He has been a savage pass rusher who continues to im· prove on all facets of his game. The front three, set back ty the injury to Gary Jeter, has performed respectably- George Martin is having a good year, while Curtis McGriff has stepped in to do a good job. However, more of a pass rush is needed to support the secon· dary. The secondary has shown improvement behind Terry Jackson and Mark Haynes. The offense is where the real improvement is needed. The greatest need here is for an explosive running back. Leon Perry is an adequate fullback, but the team has a collection of average running backs. A running game would open up a potentially strong passing game led by a good receiving corps. Johnny Perkins and Earnest Gray can be great when they . are not suffering from ham- ' strings ·and the dropsies, respectively. Gary Shirk. has done everything asked of him, and the eventual return of Dave Young can only help. The of- fensive line needs one or two big hulks to give Phil Sinunis time in the pocket. It has been too long since the Giants have reached the .500 plateau. Aided by an easy schedule, this year's team may finally reach that mark.

Page 12 OONOORJ)IENSIS, October 1~ 1981 ... . . ' . ' . . . ' . '' . •• .- •, • • ' ' •• h ' • ' ' Football Undefeate.d SPO.RTS HAPPENINGS Oct. 1-7 By ED LYNCH and tying ~ouchdown against Rochester. Last Saturday's 21-0 Again on Saturday the duo thrashing of Georgetown directed a series of effective coupled with .the opening tie drives resulting in three touch- with Rochester have gotten the downs to beat the Hoyas. Dutchmen -off to their best start Sophomore Bill Huttner has in 10 years. Second-year coach continuedhisfineplay, withtwo Joe Wirth was very touchdowns on Saturday. with his team's fullback John Washington, has also been a the way they · surprise, as he has to the 14-14 deadlock for over 170 yards in week before. two collegiate contests. The young season , has been with it a number of Bruce Melena turns of varied · have been double sessions an aggressive, learned that Last week Weldon Turner stepped in Johnston, all fine playel'S\arii:l · . etown valuable assets, would'··nbt''~·· ?:etial ... uc.l4lg two by fresh- returning. Although Wirttii·bas+'!'b fircm ll'Now!tltY~' had time to prepare withOlit'-hhi . ' '' )\.11 in all; Coacll' Wirth ~ust three veterans, their abSence '' ·'b~;Fsatisfied with the way thrngs has been and will continue to be have gone thus far. With .ex- detrimental to the te~nn~s · perience, this club should rrn- performance. Then What prove considerably. Unfor· seemed to be the greatest loss·bf . tunately-; ·however, the Out- all occurred during the chmenmust'face a challenge on Rochester game when, seconds Saturday that could be over- before the end of the first lta.U, whelming despite any con- senior quarterback Dana siderable improveme~t that Johnston sustained a fracture of may have developed durmg the his right elbow. He will:miaS'tbe past week. entire season. Johnston; a third· The Gnat Danes from Albany year starter from \'EBlniiv~r Stat~'\:Will ~ravel across ~he Mass., enjoyed a 1or ca,$ii~ distnct to. meet Unwn season, in which he . ed a fQ:lf'.tlle first time m years. The 48 percent compl ... . . . mark, ~~re presently ranked making him the tblo:·;leading thi .· . the nation and could passer in the Northeastr Dana's easily be number one when the services, in .. par ar his ratings come out tomorrow. winning attitude, .. .. .. sorely They have beaten three op- missed. He will ·ttootinue to· ponents soundly including assist the team se:wtng as an perennial power Ithaca who assistant coach. In 'Ql:$fplace, a played in the national cham- pair of competent ·'freshman pionship game only a year ago. quarterbacks have emerged. Obviously, the Danes are a very Roger Harris and Dan Stewart good football team. They are played rather well in leading quicker, bigger, and more the Dutclunen to their second explosive than Union. However, lntralllnral Football Just in case you hadn't heard, the intramural flag football season began this past Tuesda~, November 29. From now until the beginning of November, you'll be able to watch Co-Ree, 8-man and 6-man flag football teams competing on the new athletic field. The teams and their captains are as follows: Saratoga T &. L, Neil Eisenstadt; 3rd Floor Fox South, Frank Scarpinato; Houdini's Heroes, Bob Gaylord; WebSTARS, Rich Biegen; Kappa Sigma, Andre Encenat; Psycho Killers, Dave Ruden; Sigma Phi, Eric Serrilli; Sigma Chi Blue, Jon Difoochi; Chi Psi, Todd Fobare; Cinderella Kids, Dave Kaplan; South Col~ege Murderers, Bryan McGllll'k; ZBT, Wayne Penezak; Alpha Bits, Paul Sutton; Fox Cox (3rd Floor F.ox), Jeff Warwan; Gaping Holes, Will Lloyd; Phi Delta Theta, Steve Jacobs. TDX, Mike Saccocio; Fiji, Ken Salem; LODGE, Bob Hawkes· Beta Bombers~ Dave Vellant~; Delta Chi, Dennis Dombrowski; DU, Robert Feinberg; Phi Sig R.ed; Andy Felice· Figi, Chris Thomas; The Sbcty Niners, Nat H~ris; Sigma Chi Gold, Ed Moriarty; Beavers, Russ Wenner; 2nd Floor Davidson, Richard Alt· man; 3rd Floor Davidson North, Beth Donaghue. Weekday game~ are in the evening from 5 p.m. to 11 J;j.~. Weekend games start at 1:00 m the afternoon and run untilll: 00 p.m. Regular games are played through Thursday, November 5. Quarterfinals are Sunday, November 8. Semifinals are Tuesday, November 10. Finals are Thursday, November 12. At this time, the intramural trophies and· t-shirts will be presented to the Co.;Rec, 8-Man and 6-Man flag football champions. Now is the time to get out and cheer your friends on to victory. this is not to say that tlfe Dut- chmen capnot win on Saturday. Football .is a game of emotion. A fired-up Union squad could certainly send the Danes back to Albany in defeat. . The media have surrounded the contest with considerable hype which should attract a very large crowd. The plush green turf is ready to go. It's going to be a helluva game, be- sure not to miss it. s®cceR Varsity Football J. V. Footba.ll: Varsity Soccer J. V. Soccer Cross Country Oct.3 Albany St. Oct. 2 atMidd lebury Oct. Jat Binghamton Oct •. 7 at Albany St. Oct. 7 at Albany St. Oct. JatMidd:lebury, Coast Guard Soccer Sporadic By .BRIAN SHEA The defending ECAC upstate New York soccer champions of Union College have started their 1981 season in an im- pressive fashion. The Dutchman hooters were highly touted as a shoe-in for the Division III NCAA Tournament. Unfortunately for Coach Robert Magee the team that looked so strong on paper has been hurt by preseason injuries. Injured for the first two matches were Andy Dreher and Pete Cholakis. Dreher is the MVP from the 1980 squad. Cholakis is the kingpin of a tough defensive , unit that sports senior George Romas in goal and senior Pete Malloy at fullback. Finishing up the defensive squad are Frank Skorina, Jeff Marten, and Dave Carrier. Union's halfback lineup in- cludes Andy Dreher and fresh- man sensation Istuen Tamosa on the insides. Coach Magee rotates co-captain Brian Shea, Larry Anestasi, John \Wheels Wheeler, Rich Edwards and John Cutter in on the two out- side halfback spots. The Dutchmen have a lot of · potential on the front line. Seniors Hans Bukow is ninth on the Union all-time scoring list. Junior Dave Sheridan is returning after being the team's leading goal scorer last year ..... Senior Tim Agar is a tough hustling forward. Junior Mike Lewis is a talented versatile player that Magee has moved between halfback and forward. Evan Krinicle will boost the Dutchman attack with his hustle and agressiveness. Union had a chance to put the nail in the coffiri when freshman Drexel Brodes hit an open net shot high. Coach Magee was happy with the win as SLU has beaten Union in their last three regular season g~es. ..· On October .• 34tb;;. the ... Dut- chmen travele,Q. ,.,tp;\\ Cortland State to play Division III u~ui.. . unately in :ttalrn~.;tn .. ,,u ..... the om:lort.tnl~Stic offense seconds Magee the loss, aild onunea Union offerise . goal} as .· ..... · problem. .. , . The Cortlan{l State coach applauded '(Jnfpn's excellent physical con;diti ''We will meet Cort · te in post season p ys Magee. \Hopefull en our injuries will be cured and our offense will connect for more shots.\ Union and Cortland will be In the first game of a tough schedule, Union beat St. Lawrence by a 1-0 score. Mike Lewis skillfully kicked in the game winner just 22 seconds into the match. As St. Lawrence kicked off and pushed the ball backwards, Istuen Tamosa intercepted a forward pass and sent Lewis a pass that resulted in a 25-yard shot over the head 2 of St. L's 5'7\ keeper. _g George Romas held off a few a. close St. L. calls in preserving r: his first shutout of the season. rX . prime competitors for. a NCAA post season bid .. On ·the astrotury this past Saturday the hooters outshot a rugged Army squad 24-14 but only emerged with a tie after Tim Agar's goal with just 57 seconds in the match to make it 2-2. Agar had a goal and as assist on the day. To open the scoring in the first half, Agar sent a cross pass in front of the left side of the net that sophomore Chris Morrow alertly trapped and sent over the Army goalie. Army got the tying goal when Scott Miller beat George Romas from 20 yards out. Union did not die though. With just under a minute left, Brian Shea hit a perfect corner kick from the ri.ght side, sending it head-high into the middle of the. box. Agar came charging from the left and blasted it into the net. . The game ended after two scoreless ten minute overtime periods. The tie with the Division I Cadets puts Union's record at 1- 1-1. Athlete of the Week Congratulations to Eric D.eMarco, the first Miller Athlete of the Week in the 1981· 1982 school year. Eric, a freshman transfer student from Ithaca College, plays offensive center for the Union College football team. His outstanding performance in the recent Dutchman win over Georgetown University earned him Athlete of the Week honors. Rarely are offensive linemen given recognition for their valuable contribution to the offensive game. Most of the glory goes to the flashy back- field and pass receivers. The staff of the Concordiensis feels that it is important to recognize the talents of the linemen who pave the road for the backfield. Eric is an outstanding of- fensive blocker for the Dut- chmen. He is known as a very solid, very smart, and very determined athlete. An example of his skills occurred in the Georgetown game where the Hoyas substituted three different middle guards in a futile attempt to get past Eric. Eric lives in Shelton, Con- necticut where he played four years of football for Shelton High School. He had one year of post~graduate work at New Hampton Prep where he also played football. Currently he is · studying political science at Union. - Q ,;, .!) ;;( '0 ... Ill ~ w >- .!) 0 0 ..c a. - Vol - Ex~ F Th StudE grOUJ you l muct simp: the s1 reprE there that stud~ ever~ Law CollE Phar the Prog Univ of thE whic crea1 elsev merr mini: scho~ potei adva the COOP' Un inH whic Unh Alba Obse Colle Collt form Univ Uiliv T Re nee vac Fri a.n car. JUI av~ Acl 9 fl on tivi It

--Special Homecoming Issue~-- . ~D~p 0 !,;. ..0 <( \0 ... I'D ~ w ~ 0 - 0 ..c a.. Vol. lll, No. 3 Expanded Nott Street entrance to Union College i \\ ollege 1877 . . ' Schenectady, New York October 8, 1981 Campus Fa eel ift By EDWARD ALBRO Director of the Physical Plant Jack Hill this week reported on the major projects of that department, both those already completed and those still jn progress. In explaining the changes, which involved athletic fields, alteration of buildings for use by the han- dicapped, and numerous changes in the heating system, Mr. Hill stressed. that all the projects \affect students in one way or another, some more directly than others. \ Profile: U. U.S.A. The most obvious of the physical changes on campus is certainly the installation of an a11-weather, astroturf field and new composition running track. The building of the facility, whose final cost was over a million dollars, was completed last week with the installation of two additional bleacher sec- tions. Mr. Hill said that at the present time thei>e were no plans for more stands, but that with a winning football team, perhaps the future would see more construction in this area. When asked if the large ex- penditure for the field was really justified, Hill com- mented, \It provides a playable surface all year round whereas other playing fields in rainy weather you just couldn't pla:y on. I don't think you could justify it on the basis of decreased maintenance costs. But it was a facility which was needed and will provide for the needs of many students.\ The astroturf field now is used by most of the school's outdoor sports, with Garis Field in use when needed and Alexander Field used as a practice area. . In what is an ongoing process, four campus buildings are being or have been adjusted to ac- comodate the handicapped. Wheelchair ramps and special rest room facilities have been installed in Bailey Hall, North College, and Schaffer Library. Carneigie Hall is in the midst of !limilar changes. Special doors are being installed in the west entrance of the building and the serving line of the Pub has been d'!?\~ed to accomodate wheelchair-bound students. Mr. Hill stated that the College was in stage two of its program to ;;~dapt the campus to han- dicapped persons, and that the -efforts would continue beyond this year. With the continuance of the program, the College is in compliance with governmental requirements that public facilities be opened to han- dicapped users. However, Mr. Hill stated that to his knowledge no students confined to wheelchairs attended the College and commented that even at this point in the program \it would be difficult\ for such a student to complete a normal course of study. \But this would be true at any campus in the country,\ Hill felt By EDWARD ALBRO The Union University Students Association is not a group about which it is likely you have heard, or will hear much about. There is a very simple reason for this! Most of the students whom the U.U.S.A. represents don't realize that there is a Union University or that they are matriculated students of it. However, everyone who studies at Albany Law School, Albany Medical College, Albany College of Pharmacy, Union College, and the Union College Graduate Program are students of Union University and so full members of the U. U.S.A. The Association, which was only recently created, is attempting, here and elsewhere, to educate both its members and the ad- ministrations of the various schools involved in the great potential for advantage and advancement of all members of the University through cooperation between them. Union University was formed in 1873, when the institutions which made up the then Albany University (Albany Law, Albany Medical, and Dudley Observatory) united \with Union College in Schnectady (Albany· College of Pharmacy was formed in 1881 as a part of the University). As such, the new Uhiversity fulfilled the dream of the great educator Eliphilett Nott, a long-time p.resident of Union College, to have a national university in New York's capital. In addition, the union was meant to strengthen each seperate institution, each of which was struggling because of the drain which the Civil War had caused. As the founders of the University expressed it, the University was intended ''. . . to advance the .well-being of all, and all to cooperate for the well-bl:ling of each.\ However, the actual structure of the University was indefinite from the start, as ·evidenced by the next line of the . charter, \(The. School's) mutual relations are to be adjusted as experience ripens: and advantageous results are evidently dependent on further development under the .general conception of the University idea.\ Unfortunately, the necessary 'adjustments' were never made and, discounting sporadic at- tempts at cooperation when the institutions involved found themselves ~temporarily in jeopardy, the seperate elements continued as, for all intents and purposes, independent schools. The U. U.S.A. was formed in the fall of 1979 by students at the various schools who believed in the potential of the University founders idea of strength and advancement thto~gh unity and Elections Planned The Junior Class Representative Election, needed to fill John Scotto's vacancy, will be conducted on Friday, October 16 from 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Candidates can only be members of the Junior class. Petitions are available at the Student Activities Office on Friday, Oct. 9 from 9:00-4:30. They are due on Oct. 12 at the student ac- tivities office no later than 4:30. It would be advisable for candidates to submit their pictures and statements to Concordiensis by Tuesday, Oct. 13. Petitions. will be exhibited for petition challenges during class hours on the day before the election, Oct. 15, at the Student Activities office. Information on the election procedure is in· eluded with the nominating petitions. . · Joe Cristofaro Chmn. Elections Comm. wished to resurrect lt and make it work. ~ The governing body of the U. U.S.A. is the University Student Council, which consists of one Representative and one Chairman from each of the five schools. Representatives are delegates of the individual school's student council and are elected. The Chairmen, rather than representing the views of their individual schools, are intended to be gu~rdians of the University as a whole and so mediate disputes between seperate schools. Tl'iey are appointed. The advantages of cooperation within the University are numerous and applicable to all of its members. The University as a whole offers far greater physical resources than any of the single in- stitutions can hope to. The U.U.S.A. has made it possible ._Continued on page 2 Policy Changed: Pass/Fail ConditiQns for taking courses Pass-Fail have been altered from those printed in this year's cataloque. They are as follows: A student beyond the first two terms of residence may take one free elective in each academic year OIJ a \Pass- Fail\ basis~ The course may be in any subject or area, but it cannot be us.ed as a requirement for the major or for Liberal Learning. Courses in Terms Abroad are also ex- cluded. Neither grad~ is sued in calculation of the index. Students choosing Pass-Fail must notify the Registrar before the end of the first week of the term, on a form provided for the purpose. Im;tructors will be informed about P-F re-gistration of a · specific student only if they request the information. At the end of term, the instructor submits a regular grade .(A-F), which is then converted by the Registrar to P or F. After the first week of the term, the P-F decision is irrevocable, unless a sub- sequent change of major requires that the Registrar retrieve the original graqe for the record. The changes of the system are these: _1. One P-F each year; instead of two. 2. No restriction on area of course (i.e., not necessarily \distant from previous course experience,\ as before.) 3. Exclusion of Terms Abroad from P-F. 4. No permission of instructor required, but he can discover if a student is P-F-registered if he chooses to ask the Registrar. In the area of campus heating, many changes were made with the aim of both improved service . and energy conservation. Changes were made in the heating systems of Davidson, Fox, West, Schaffer Library, Bailey Hall, Science and Engineering, the Physical and Heating Plants, and Achilles Rink. The changes included the installation of thermostats, insulation, heat recovery systems, and heat distributors. Hill noted that due to unforseen problems in the start-up of the new systems heating had been inconsistent in some areas. He anticipated that these problems should be solved by the end of this week. Commenting on an article printed in last week's Con- cordiensis dealing with the removal last summer of, asbestos ceilings in Fox and Davidson, Hill reported that the project had been completed for less money than was original- ly budgeted for it and cost oQ].y $400,000, not the $550,000 reported last week. When asked if the asbestos which still remains in Potter, Raymond, and Hickock houses, Hill ~aid that while it \may be done in the future\ there were no plans for its removal at the present time. The asbestos in these buildings \did not present the same degree of health nroblems,\ he saicl. Traffic conditions around campus are also slated to undergo changes. The Nott street entrance to the fieldhouse parking lot is being widened. There will now be two lanes of outgoing traffic. and one lane of incoming, cc9mpared to the two lanes which used to constitute this gate. As a result of this expansion, the Potter street entrance will be closed. Hill believes that these changes will reduce congestion and speed flow of traffic in this area. In Continued on page ·2

.Page 2 OONOOBDIENSIS, October 8, 1981 Student Affairs Report By SUSAN LINEHAN The first meeting of the year for the Student Affairs Council iSAC) was held last Thursday. SAC is a major all-campus committee whose pr.imary function is to \recommend policy for student life\ with regard to both academic and non-academic activities. Specifically, the Council reviews policy, and formulates and recommends plans for student housing, dining ser- vices, student center, health services, counseling . services, career counseling and placement, student conduct, and fraternities and sororities. Membership in the council consists of 5 students, 2 faculty members and 2 administrators. The st.udent representatives this year are Brian Marks, Kim Nogay, Ilene Landress, Gary Leht, and Dave Epler. Professor Vatter Pilcher and Professor Ruth Anne Evans were elected by the faculty at large to be council members. In addition, SAC consists of the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies, Professor Will Roth, and Acting Dean of Students, Don Spring. The first meeting was an organizational meeting con- cemed with selection of a chairperson for. SAC, and ex:- pression of general proposals to be considered for the year. Professor Ruth Anne Evans, assistant director of Schaffer Library was selected to be the chairperson, a positioR which she held last year. Some proposals for review in the coming year were ex- pressed by Dea!l Don Spring; first, ·he proposed to look at the possibility ef rewriting the ]!978 fraternity and sorority document which outlines their role and how they fW1ction. Dean Spring expressed that the document was \not founded on basic rationale.\ Another proposal involves the placement of religious chaplains on campus. Dean Spring points out that in the past, chaplains have been scattered in remote places and believes it is \reasonable\ to give Catholic, Jewish, and Protestant ch?plains a cen,.. trally located spa~--~ in Carnegie Hall. Other proposals to be con- sidered by the council include the campus parking policy, dormitory crowding.. and the closing times of the Pub and Skellar. When asked to d~fine the most U.U.S.A. Continued from page 1 for any Union University student to use any of the University's athletic facilities, classrooms, or other physical resource, at any institution of the University. The University increases the students network for information and advice, by opening up individual libraries, faculty groups, and financial aid and placement offices to all. In addition, the effective student body is increased, thus providing more money and more participants for student activities, particularly people at just one school. Finally, the University gives a chance for students to come in contact with students and systems outside of their own institution and University graduates in many Facelift . • • addition, Hill reported that, due to numerous complaints from small car owners, the speed bumps around campus would be lowered, thus reducing the possibility of scraping on the undercarriages of these autos. The bumps will also be more clearly marked and painted yellow. Finally, in addition to the customary summer refur- positions and places. The only obstacles that the University and the Student Association now face are such that can be solved by continued cooperation and commitment. There exists a lack of com- munication within the University, a lack of knowledge by students of the available resources and how to get access to them, and a lack of University identity and acknowledgement. But perhaps what is most enticing about the U. U.S.A. and its companion concept of a strong University is the fact that it is so new and undefined. Thus its full potential can only be deter- mined by the effort and creativity of those who become involved in it. Continued from page 1 bishing ofdorms, West college was given special attention. Lounges were formed on two floors, rooms expanded, and new rooms formed. Two roofs and the cupola were repaired. Hill stressed though that despite the flurry of activity the ''building is a good solid building\ and will stand for many years to come. important function of SAG, chairperson Ruth Anne Evans replied that \the ongoing concern for this year\ is to fulfill President Morris's charge that the committee \describe and make recom- mendations on the role of residential li.fe and student ex.tra-curricular experience and the ways in which they fit into the mission of the College.\ General meetings for the council have been tentatively set on Thursdays at 1 :30 p.m. in the Conference room in Car- negie. I Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies, Professor Will Roth. Campus Viewp_oints Que~tion: Are Reagan Education cuts justified? Darrell Logan Darrel Logan If you took it in the long, long run than they're justified but in the short run, in the way they're going to affect the students at the present time, its g9ing to make it more difficult for students of parents in the middle and lower incomes to go to colleges like this one, Union or R.P.I.; but it probably won't have an effect on students from upper incomes. I figure it's just going to make it a little tougher for students; they'll have to borrow more from the banks, Beth Yedwab have more to pay back that way. It's a heavier burden, but it won't be that bad. Beth Yedwab I think it's unjustified. A lot qf people want to go to college, deserve to go to good colleges and can't because they can't afford it. I think everyone has a right to a good education. If they're intelligent enough to get into a good school, which is in most cases an expensive school then they should have a chance to go there. Bob Pavicic Bob Pavicie Well, he's almost got no choice. Though I disagree with what his budget director (David Stockman) said the other day that he doesn't feel that the Federal government has any obligation at all to provide funds for students. But, he's got to cut the budget some way and . he's got to cut everyt!ling. Sarah McMahon I think they're justified in the · sense that he's cutting on many other programs and the Nation needs the money. !More Committee Openings! Applications for the following committees will be available on Thursday, October 8th in the Student Activities Office and they must be returned to that office no later than Monday, October 12th. These committees are open to both Freshmen and Upperclassmen. Standing of Students Com- mittee (2 vacancies)-reviews the academic standing of students and helps determine the appropriate action that will be ·taken. Note: Tpe meetings occur the week after finals week. Research and Grants Com- mittee (1 vaeancy)--this, committee administers certain grants such as I.E.F. grants. Planning ' and Priorities Committee (1 vacancy)-helps determine future plans and goals in order to improve Union College. Union University Note: Applications for the following committees are also available in the Student Activities Office and must be submitted by Monday, October 12th. Concert Committee . (2 vacancies)--Open to Freshmen Only. Social Committee (3 vacancies )-Freshmen Only. Film Committee (5 vacan- cies )·-Both Freshmen and Upperclassmen may submit applications. Election Committee ( 4 Greek Week Celebration Representative (1 vacancy)- this person will represent Union College at meetings with Albany Medical College, Albany Law School, Albany Pharmacy and Dudley Observatory. Resident Life Committee (2 vacancies )-helps determine policy involving housing. Works as an advisory board for the Director of Resident Life~ vacancies )--Both Freshmen and Upperclassmen may submit applications. Speaker's Forum (1 vacan- cy)-Freshmen Only. This fall the Inter Fraternity ' . Council is sponsormg an organized Greek Week designed to highlight the strong frater- nity heritage at Union. Greek Week to be held October 20-24, will f~ature: parties at each of the fraternities and sororities, athletic competitions between all the houses, and will end with an all campus band party sponsored by Miller Brewing Company. Proceeds from the party will be donated to the WGY Children's Christmas Fund. ' Mike Andolina, Assistant Dean of Students and advisor to rne IFC ~. In order to make each evening's parties easily ac- cessible, the campus has been divided into four sections and all the houses in each section will hold their parties on the same night. The sections are: Traffic and Pet Court (6 vacancies )--Both Freshmen and Upperclassmen may submit applications. Box Office Open Tuesday October 20; Zeta Beta Tau, Phi Sigma Kappa, Figi, Tri Delt and SDT; Wednesday ' The College Center Box Monday through Friday from 1 October 21; Beta Tau Pi, Delta Office, located on the first floor p.m. to 8 p.m. Tickets for the Chi, Sigma Chi, and Delta of Carnegie Hall, is now open events of each· week will go on Upsilon; Thursday October 22; under the direction of Mrs. sale the preceding Monday, and Psi Upsilon, Chi Psi, Alpha Lorraine Marra of Student movie tickets will also be sold D lt Ph . K AI h d Affairs. one-half hour before showtime. e a 1 ' appa p a, an Tickets for all student ac- Sigina Phi; Friday October 23 ; ti'vi'tt'es w·t'll b. e sold at .. the box An · t d · . · Delta Phi, Theta Delta Chi, Phi yone m ereste m rentmg Delta Theta, and Delta Gamma. office, as well as game room the school's sound equipment Greek week is meant to in- supplies. Brand new sound, m}lSt attend a mandatory class troducenew students to UnionJs public address, and record hop on Monday, Octo:t>er 12 at 4 p.m. fraternity system and to foster equipment is available on a in Carnegie Hall conference cordial relations between the rental basis. Also, reservations room A. Fraternities, fraternities and the school for open rooms in which to hold sororities, dormitory councils community. meetings may be made lhrough and clubs should send two ·Any questions concerning this office. representatives. The class will Greek week should be directed . College Center Box Office will be instructed by Larry Shapiro. to either Mike Andolina, Asst. be operated by eleven college Rentals are to be determined on Dean of students or the IFC center assistants on grants, a first-come, first-serve basis, t t . f h under the supervision of Mrs. and will require a contract represen a lVe 0 any ouse. UM!:a!!r~ra~-~Th~e~B~o~X_!O~ff£!i~ce~is~·.2oente~.n!..,~Si!i'l! wlni!a~twu;·~e.Janwrt!!LJcl-'-~HL---1 - R E The facts sourc Indep theUJ Office in til wherE articli theFi as a dTeSSI more any ( ficers em keepii finant Washi con tin other· · us at 11 i~ stude1 other to spe ''Se colleg be dr and g cuts eligib effect The taken Indep (ISC) the in a mi: New eolle! or gar been than recen as v Educ orga1 itself that: of ir most focus issue fund!; Mr that pro xi UnioJ \' n E 0 0 i1 F h F a H w D I c a c y tl I c b l~ a

.Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, October 8, 1981 Student Affairs Report By SUSAN LINEHAN The first meeting of the year for the Student Affairs Council 1 SAC) was held last Thursday. SAC is a major all-campus committee whose primary function is to \recommend policy for student life\ with regard to both academic and non-a ca demi c ac ti vi ties. Specifically, the Council reviews policy, and formulates and recommends plans for stl!l.dent housing, dining ser- vices,. student center, health services, counseling . services, career counseling and placement, student conduct, and fraternities and sororities. Membership in the council consists of 5 students, 2 faculty members and 2 administrators. The student representatives this year are Brian Marks, Kim Nogay, Ilene Landress, Gary Lehr, and Dave Epler. Professor Vatter Pilcher and Professor Ruth Anne Evans were elected by the faculty at large to be council members. In addition, SAC consists of the Associate Dean of Un de rg rad uate Studies, Professor Will Roth, and Acting Dean of Students, Don Spring. The first meeting was an organizational meeting con- cerned with selection of a chairperson for SAC, and ex- pression of general proposals to be considered for the year. Professor Ruth Anne Evans, assistant dkector of Schaffer Library was selected to be the chairperson, a positior< which she held last year. Some proposals for review in the coming year were ex- pressed by Dean Don Spring; first, he proposed to look at the possibility of rewriUng the 1978 fraternity and sorority docwnent which outlines their role and how they function. Dean Spring expressed that the document was \not founded on basic rationale.'' Another proposal involves the placement of religious chaplains on campus. Dean Spring points out that in the past, chaplains have been scattered in remote places and believes it is \reasonable\ to give Catholic, Jewish, and Protestant ch?plains a cen- trally located spa,•e in Carnegie Hall. Other proposals to be con- sidered by the council include the ta mpus parking policy, dormitory crowding,. and the closing times of the Pub and Skellar. When asked to d~fine the most U.U.S.A. Continued from page 1 for any Union University student to use any of the University's athletic facilities, classrooms, or other physical resource, at any institution of the University. The University increases the students network for information ami advice, by opening up individual libraries, faculty groups, and financial aid and placement offices to all. In addition, the effective student body is increased, thus providing more money and more participants for student activities, particularly people at just one school. Finally, the University gives a chance for students to come in contact with students and systems outside of their own institution and University graduates in many positions and places. The only obstacles that the University and the Student Association now face are such that can be solved by continued cooperation and commitment. There exists a lack of com- munication within the University, a lack of knowledge by students of the available resources and how to get access to them, and a lack of University identity and acknowledgement. But perhaps what is most enticing about the U.U.S.A. and its companion concept of a strong University is the fact that it is so new and undefined. Thus its full potential can only be deter- mined by the effort and creativity of those who become involved in it. Face I if t . . . Continued from page 1 addition, Hill reported that, due bishing of dorms, West college to numerous complaints from was given special attention. small car owners, the speed Lounges were fanned on two bumps around campus would be floors, rooms expanded, and lowered, thus reducing the new rooms formed. Two roofs possibility of scraping on the and the cupola were repaired. undercarriages of these autos. Hill stressed though that despite The bumps will also be more the flurry of activity the clearly marked and painted \building is a good solid yellow. building\ and will stand for Finally, in addition to the many years to come. customary summer refur- important function of SAC, chairperson Ruth Anne Evans replied that \the ongoing concern for this year\ is to fulfill President Morris's charge that the committee \describe and make recom- mendations on the role of residential life and student extra-curricular experience and the ways in which they fit into the mission of the College.\ General meetings for the council have been tentatively set on Thursdays at 1:30 p.m. in the Conference room in Car- negie. a Associate Dean of Underg,raduate Stl!.ldies, Professor Wi II Roth. Campus Viewpoints Question: Are Reagan Education cuts justified? Darrell Logan Darrel Logan If you took it in the long, long run than they're justified but in the short run, in the way they're going to affect the students at the present time, its going to make it more difficult for students of parents in the middle and lower incomes to go to colleges like this one, Union or R.P.I.; but it probably won't have an effect on students from upper incomes. I figure it's just going to make it a little tougher for students; they'll have to borrow more from the banks, Beth Yedwab have more to pay back that way. It's a heavier burden, but it won't be that bad. Beth Yedwab I think it's unjustified. A lot ~f people want to go to college, deserve to go to good colleges and can't because they can't afford it. I think everyone has a right to a good education. If they're intelligent enough to get into a good school, which is in most cases an expensive school then they should have a chance to go there. Bob Pavicic Bob Pavicic Well, he's almost got no choice. Though I disagree with what his budget director (David Stockman) said the other day that he doesn't feel that the Federal government has any obligation at all to provide funds for students. But, he's got to cut the budget some way and . he's got to cut everything. Sarah McMahon I think they're justified in the sense that he's cutting on many other programs and the Nation needs the money. !More Committee Openings! Applications for the following conunittees will be available on Thursday, October 8th in the Student Activities Office and they must be returned to that office no later than Monday, October 12th. These committees are open to both Freshmen and Upperclassmen. Standing of Students Com- mittee (2 vacancies)-reviews the academic standing of students and helps determine the appropriate action that will be taken. Note: Tthe meetings occur the week after finals week. Research and Grants Com- mittee ( 1 vacancy)--this committee administers certain grants such as I.E.F. grants. Planning · and Priorities Committee (1 vacancy)-helps determine future plans and goals in order to improve Union College. Union University Note: Applications for the following committees are also available in the Student Activities Office and must be submitted by Monday, October 12th. Concert Committee ( 2 vacancies)--Open to Freshmen Only. Social Committee ( 3 vacancies)=Freshmen Only. Film Committee (5 vacan- cies )--Both Freshmen and Upperclassmen may submit applications. Greek Week Cele.hration Representative (1 vacancy)- this person will represent Union College at meetings with Albany Medical College, Albany Law School, Albany Pharmacy and Dudley Observatory. Election Committee ( 4 vacancies) --Both Freshmen and Upperclassmen may submit applications. Speaker's Forum (1 vacan- cy)-Freshmen Only. This fall, the Inter Fraternity Council is sponsoring an organized Greek Week designed to highlight the strong frater- nity heritage at Union. Greek Week, to be held October 20-24, will feature: parties at each of the fraternities and sororities, athletic competitions between all the houses, and will end with an all campus band party sponsored by Miller Brewing Company. Proceeds from the party will be donated to the WGY Children's Christmas Fund. ' Mike Andolina, Assistant Dean of Students and advisor to tne IFC • In order to make each evening's parties easily ac- cessible, the campus has been divided into four sections and all the houses in each section will hold their parties on the same night. The sections are: Tuesday October 20; Zeta Beta Tau, Phi Sigma Kappa, Figi, Tri Delt and SDT; Wednesday October 21; Beta Tau Pi, Delta Chi, Sigma Chi, and Delta Upsilon; Thursday October 22; Psi Upsilon, Chi Psi, Alpha Delta Phi, Kappa Alpha, and Sigma Phi; Friday October 23; Delta Phi, Theta Delta Chi, Phi Delta Theta, and Delta Gamma. Greek Week is meant to in- troduce new students to Union's fraternity system and to foster cordial relations between the fraternities and the school community. Any questions concerning Greek Week should be directed . to either Mike Andolina, Asst. Dean of Students or the IFC representative of any house. Resident Life Committee (2 vacancies )-helps determine policy involving housing. Works as an advisory board for the Director of Resident Life. Traffic and Pet Court ( 6 vacancies )--Both Freshmen and Upperclassmen may submit applications. Box Office Open The College Center Box Office, located on the first floor of Carnegie Hall, is now open under the direction of Mrs. Lorraine Marra of Student Affairs. Tickets for all student ac- tivities will be sold at the box office, as well as game room supplies. Brand new sound, public address, and record hop equipment is available on a rental basis. Also, reservations for open rooms in which to hold meetings may be made through this office. College Center Box Office will be operated by eleven college center assistants on grants, under the supervision of Mrs. Marra. The Box office is· open Monday through Friday from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. Tickets for the events of each week will go on sale the preceding Monday, and movie tickets will also be sold one-half hour before showtime. Anyone interested in renting the school's sound equipment must attend a mandatory class on Monday, October 12 at 4 p.m. in Carnegie Hall conference room A. Fraternities, sororities, dormitory councils and clubs should send two representatives. The class will be instructed by Larry Shapiro. Rentals are to be determined on a first-come, first-serve basis, and will require a contract sianature and· denosit. I i R Tht facts SOUf4 Inde1 the U OffiCI in tl wher, articl the F as a dress more any ficen co: keepi fin an Wash contb other us at Iti stude other to sp1 \SE colle! be d1 and E cuts eligit effec· Th' taket In de] rrsc the it ami New colle orga been than rece1 as 1 EdU< orga itsell that of i: mOS1 focw issm fund; Mt that prox Unio F. v I

OONOORDIENFJ.IS, October 8, 1981 Page 3 ~eaga~ Cuts: By PAUL GROSSMAN The following article contains facts obtained from combined sources 'including the Independent Student Coalition, the Union C~lleg_e Financial Aid Office and other sources named in the article. Additionally, where stated, the text of the article contains a re.print from the Financial Aid Office as well as a sample letter and ad- dresses. Anyone who would like more information should see any of the Financial Aid of· ficers, CONCORDIENSIS will be keeping a close watch on the financial aid scene ·in Washington and Albany and will continually report on these and other matters that affect all of · us at Union. It is our hope that all Union students w:ill consider these and other issues important enough to speak out on them. \Several hundred thousand college students nationwide will be dropped from federal loan and grant programs because of cuts in funding and new eligibility restrictions that took effect October 1, 1981.\ The above statement was taken from a report by the Independent Student Coalition (ISC), a coalition \representing the interest of over a quarter of a million students enrolled in New York's independent colleges and universities.\ The organization is one that has been finding itself much busier than it would like in light of the recent cuts to student aid funds as well as department of Education itself. They are an organization that concerns itself with many of the issues that are of concern to students of independent colleg~s. but most recently, they have focused on the most important issue at hand, the cuts of federal funds for student financial aid. Mr. Robert Massa estimates that here at Union, ap· proximately 85 percent of all Union students receive some sort of financial aid, in the form of awards, grants, work-study scholarships and programs, and most importantly, student and parent lGans. \The Guaranteed and National Direct Student Loan programs have been hit the hardest,\ rep()rts Greg Lupion of the ISC. \An estimated 40 percent of the former program's J',ecipients could become ineli.gible.\ This translates to 245;000 New York students in 1982·83 in the Guaranteed Student Loan Program al'one based on figures released last week by the State Education Department in Albany. Students at New York State independent coHeges stand. to lese an amount somewhere in the area of $561:9 million. \Given the large number of loans issued in 1981 and the concurrent debt service, it is likely no ne.w loans could be issued in 1982,\ said New York State Education Department Commissioner Gordon Ambach. This admittedly ominous statement is due largely to the huge increase in loan ap- plications, an increase of almost 50 percent based on figures from the N.Y.S. Higher Education Services Cor· poration. Most experts agree that this increase is due mostly to the publicity given the proposed cuts in the program. Many Financial Aid officers have advised students to apply for the ma:s;irnwn loan available this year, anticipating next year's severe cuts. The Pell Grant program and the Social Security Survivors' Benefits will ;1lso fall victim to the Reagan-stockman ax. The total loss in Fell Grants for New York students will be $85 million; $60 million will be cut from the Social Security program. Looking at the second round of President Reagan's budget cuts, one sees the loss of $706.9 million in aid which translates to 340,000 students being dropped from federal aid programs. Union College will be Write·,Now WHO TO WRITE TO~AND HOW: Director of Financial Aid Robert Massa has been meeting with many of his colleagues and has been in contact with many New York State congressmen in the last few months. He reports sadly that the main reason there was so little opposition in Congress was that t~ere was no grassroots opposition; the people affected by the cuts were sneot! There are key times to write to your congressman, and it is irnportan~ that if you write, that you write more than once. Four to six times is recommended by Mr. Massa who has himself written to many important members of Congress. Concordiensis has reprinted a fonn letter supplied by the Financial Aid Office below. The Financial Aid Office also has a list of key times and key addresses of people to write to. Home Address Honorable ....... . Washington, DC Dear Senator-Representative ....... : As a student enrolled at Union College in Schenectady, NY ·I have been adversely affected by the cutbacks in student aid caused by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981. At a time when college tuition is on the rise, it becomes in- creasingly difficult to meet the cost of education. I am urging you not to support any further cuts that may be proposed in the Fiscal1982 or 1983 budget in student aid pl\'ograms. While I understand the need for· fiscal restraint, the .Cuture of this country lies with an educated youth. If a college education becones unattainable because of budget cuts, we will have lost a precious resource in America. Again, I urge you to vote NO to any further cuts in student aid. • Sincerely, Can We Survive? Robert Massa, Director of Financial Aid represented in these figures. \The Reaganproposals would effectively eliminate the ability of many students to continue at their preseril schools,'' said ISC Executive I)ireetor Michael Caruso. Mr. Caruso, along with many keeping a close ear to the . rumblings in 'Washington, fears that the cuts will cause dramatic shifts in enrollment fl'om independent colleges and universities to the State and City schools, thereby placing an even larger l>urden on the New York Taxp<J.yoer. \The point that must be communicated to New York State's congressional delegation is that such a crip- pling blow l<> students in in- dependent colleges and universities will result in a major increase in state taxes if New York is to maintain present levels .of collegiate access,\ said Hartwick College student le.adEr Jason Moses, chairman of the board of ISC. Of those st11dents who would become ineligible for a guaranteed loan under the new Reagan programs, about 80 percent corn~ from independent colleges and universities. Union has an imp()rtant role in the independent sector of New York state schools. Now is the time for Union to respond. The following is a summary of the cuts that will affect students' receiving financial aid and what is likely to happen if ·our voices are not heard. .u.~a:u l\1aee-:ss .. to this $2500 per • .. . . . . .· . . .. · . · · .. · . . . . . lo.ant .only those fromJn- .,. · .. ·.. · . · · . .$.3tMlflttwm be . • t~ ubtain tbe loan. AbOve ~-that.,needmust be. demonstrated and the. amount of. the loan .. will, be .limited to need'\' Unlike the past, there will be no . \ JJ.Or:t;uwing .. to make UltthtMlifferenca between what. the needs . , .test,say;s.Jout ,family, can contribute and what they can ac- . :twJlly;~ftln.d;·ln additionj·tbe lta&·Win. now cost you five per . £r,ont,n i.e. a $2500 loan will< n~ a ~um of Clulll'gt1d on tile loan ·income will t; The Iru~ximmn award was cut fl.\om $1000 to . ·b.e-~li~J\blUtr :Seales R:re n&t updated for inflatio~. Abo.l§:·perceat of aU Basie Grant recipients .. last year will be una.ble to qualify this year. In addition! nearly every · st:•dent '.Villreeeive l~ss.grant monty than last year. . .· .•. :·l'tutufe:. The· admini$raticn plans to reduce ~ppro\)rl.atiOns . · event\itrtb.er·and they .at\e be · . now. The O'rlginal cuts . ·brought spending, down to .$2~ n in 1932 •. Now the Pre.si®nt .i~ asliing fur onlY ~.3 billion. It is pQssible that the , · p~ogram will· be cut f~ther .ior ;1~3, with very few families with ineomes ·o-ver $201000 recetvtng the grant. . .. NDSlt: The interest rate ba$:.in:erea.s.ed.,ftle?~ foUf :percent tf.l fiv.epereent and .. appropriations were cat $100 tnUlitln to $100 · An inetease in interest tO st)ven J)el\<rent and an a•out nftlietettetal capitatc-o:ntrlbuti'qnis a likely poSSibiltty. ' . ~- '.. . ,- - .. ~.·

CONOORDIENSIS, October 8, 1981 Page 3 Reagan Cuts: Can We Survive? By PAUL GROSSMAN The following article contains facts obtained from combined sources ·including the Independent Student Coalition, the Union C~llege Financial Aid Office and other sources named in the article. Additionally, where stated, the text of the article contains a reprint f.rom the Financial Aid Office as well as a sample letter and ad~ dresses. Anyone who would like more information should see any of the Financial Aid of- ficers. CONCORDIENSIS will be keeping a close watch on the financial aid scene in Washington and Albany and will continually report on these and other matters that affect all of us at Union. It is our hope that all Union students will consider these and other issues important enough to speak out on them. \Several hundred thousand college students nationwide will be dropped from federal loan and grant programs because of cuts in funding and new eligibility restrictions that took effect October 1, 1981.\ The above statement was taken from a report by the INdependent Student Coalition fiSC), a coalition \representing the interest of over a quarter of a million students enrolled in New York's independent colleges and universities.\ The organization is one that has been finding itself much busier than it would like in light of the recent cuts to student aid funds as well as department of Education itself. They are an organization that concerns itself with many of the issues that are of concern to students of independent colleges, but most recently, they have focused on the most important issue at hand, the cuts of federal funds for student financial aid. Mr. Robert Massa estimates that here at Union, ap- proximately 85 percent of all Union students receive some sort of financial aid, in the form of awards, grants, work-study scholarships and programs, and most importantly, student and parent loans. ''The Guaranteed and National Direct Student Loan programs have been hit the hardest,\ reports Greg Lupion of the ISC. \An estimated 40 percent of the former program's recipients could become ineligible.\ This translates to 245,000 New York students in 1982-83 in the Guaranteecl Student Loan Program alone based on figures released last week by the State Education Department in Albany. Students at New York State independent colleges stand to lose an amount somewhere in the area of $561.9 million. \Given the large number of loans issued in 1981 and the concurrent debt service, it is likely no ne-w loans could be issued in 1982,\ said New York State Education Department Commissioner Gordon Ambach. This admittedly ominous statement is due largely to the huge increase in loan ap- plications, an increase of almost 50 percent based on figures from the N.Y.S. Higher Education Services Cor- poration. Most experts agree that this increase is due mostly to the publicity given the proposed cuts in the program. Many Financial Aid officers have advised students to apply for the maximum loan available this year, anticipating next year's severe cuts. The Pell Grant program and the Social Security Survivors' Benefits will also fall victim to the Reagan-stockman ax. The total loss in Pell Grants for New York students will be $85 million; $60 million will be cut from the Social Security program. Looking at the second round of President Reagan's budget cuts, one sees the loss of $706.9 million in aid which translates to 340,000 students being dropped from federal aid programs. Union College will be Write Now WHO TO WIUTE·TO AND UOW: Director of Financial Aid Robert Massa has been meeting with many of his colleagues and has been in contact with many New York State congressmen in the last few months. He reports sadly that the main reason there was so little opposition in Congress was that t~ere was no grassroots opposition; the people affected by the cuts were silent! There are key times to write to your congressman, and it is importan~ that if you write, that you write more than once. Four to six times is recommended by Mr. Massa who has himself written to many important members of Congress. Concordiensis has reprinted a form letter supplied by the Financial Aid Office below. The Financial Aid Office also has a list of key times and key addresses of people to write to. Home Address Honorable .......• Washington, DC Dear Senator-Representative ....... : As a student enrolled at Union College in Schenectady, NY I have been adversely affected by the cutbacks in student aid caused by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981. At a time when college tuition is on the rise, it becomes in- creasingly difficult to meet the cost of education. I am urging you not to support any further cuts that may be proposed in the Fiscal1982 or 1983 budget in student aid programs. While I understand the need for fiscal restraint, the Zuture of this country lies with an educated youth. If a college education becones unattainable because of budget cuts, we will have lost a precious resource in America. Again, I urge you to vote NO to any further cuts in student aid. • Sincerely, Robert Massa, Director of Financial Aid represented in these figures. \The Reagan proposals would effectively eliminate the ability of many students to continue at their present schools,'' said ISC Executive Di>rector Michael Caruso. Mr. Caruso, along with many keepiNg a close ear to the _ rumblings ion Washington, fears that the cuts will cause dramatic shifts in enrollment from independent colleges and universities to the State and City schools, thereby placing an even larger burden on the New York Taxpayer. ''The point that must be communicated to New York State's congressional delegation is that such a crip- pling blow to students in in- dependent colleges and universities will result in a major increase in state taxes if New York is to maintain present levels of collegiate access,'' said Hartwick College student leader Jason Moses, chairman of the board of ISC. Of those students who would become ineligible for a guaranteed loan under the new Reagan programs, about 80 percent come from independent colleges and universities. Union has an important role in the independent sector of New York state schools. Now is the time for Union to respond. , The following is a swrunary of the cuts that will affect students receiving financial aid and what is likely to happen if our voices are not heard. Guaranteed loan: Instead of open access to this $2500 per y~ar no-interest while in oonege loan, only those from in· comes under $30,000 will be able to obtain tbe loan. Above thatt need must be demonstrated and the amount of the loan will be limited to need. Unlike the past, there wm be no borrowing to make up the difference between What the needs test says your family can contribute and what they can !iC· tually afford. In addition, the loan will now cost you. f1ve percent \up front,\ i.e. a $2500 loan will net a maximum of only $2375. Future~ If we don't actt interest may be charged on the lQa.Il while you are in college and no one over a $30,000 inc()me will be eligible to borrow. Basie Grant: The maximum award was cut from $1000 to $Hi70 and the eligibility scales were not updated for inflation. About-15 percent of all Basic Grant recipients. last year will be unable to qualify this year. In addition, nearly every student will receive less grant monty than last year. . Future: The administration plans to reduce .appropdatwns even further and they are beginning now. 'The original cuts brought spending down to $2.65 billion in 1932. Now the President is asking for only $2.3 billion .. Itlspossible tha~ ~he program will be cut further for 1983, with very few families with incomes over $20,000 receiving the grant. NDSL: The interest rate has increased from four percent to five percent and appropriations were cut $100 million to $186 million. Future: An increase in interest to seven percent and an entire phase-out of the federal capital contr-ibution is a likely possibility. SEOG (Supplemental Grant): The administration is requesting $215 million for this vital pro~-a cut o~ ~ore than 40 percent from last year's $370 millitm apt>roprmt1on. Future! ? ? ?

· Page 4 OONCORDIENSIS, October 8, 198r Life With J. Falwell I E ,E • .• or ••. (CPS )-Ricky Johnson, was attracted to a woman he saw on campus one dqy. Like any other student, Johnson figured the logical move would be to ask her for a date. But unlike most students, Ricky Johnson needed his dean's permission to do it. Permission to date is nothing unusual at Liberty Baptist College, where Johnson was enrolled. Uberty Baptist is the academic pasture of fun- damentaHst .preacher Jerry Falwell's electroniC ministry. Falwell, who .is best known as the president of the Moral Majority, feels students need administration consent before going on a date, which must then be spent in a designated dating area. As Johnson discovered, the administration doesn't always go along with students' dating wishes, especially if--as in Johnson's case--the two students are not of the same race. But such is life at Liberty Baptist, which Falwell opened in September, 1971 as an academic antidote to 1 'the dark spiritual condition of the world.\ He strongly disap- proves of the evolutionary theories and situational ethics of other colleges, so Liberty Baptist promotes . higher education as a literalist Christian exercise. While the campus isn't Ivy League--the buildings are prefabricated and students sleep four to a room-Falwell regards its construction as \a miracle.\ · Besides miracles, the college relies on tuition and con- tributions .solicited during Falwell's weekly televised \Old Time Gospel Hour.\ It has raised enough money to offer bachelors degrees in nine fields. It was accredited last December by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. Falwell wants to take it higher. His goal is \putting the school on the level of Harvard.'' Yale, for one, doesn't want it there. Yale President A. Bar- tlett Giamatti raised a national controversy recently when, in his written message to Yale freshmen, he den()unced Falwell and the Moral Majority as \peddlers of coercion\ who are \angry at change, rigid in the application of slogans (and) absolutistic in morality.\ Liberty Baptist openly and cheerfully flaunts most of the tenets of liberal education-free and open inquiry, skepticism, etc.--that distinguish good colleges from the mediocre. \Anytime (faculty members) start teaching something we don't like,\ Falwell says, \we cut the money off.\ \You must be a born-again Christian to be admitted to our college,\ summarizes President Pierre Guillerman. As part of the admissions process, students must write autobiographical descriptions of their conversions. After being admitted, students operate in a highly- structured and restrictive environment. Marijuana is strictly for- bidden, as is drinking, dancing and going to movies. Rock music, which Falwell considers \the devil' s anthem,\ is absolutely prohibited. So is country and western m11sic. Students can be suspended for dancing, swearing, reading pornography, or visiting the dorm (including the lobby) of a member of the opposite sex. Automatic expulsion occurs if a student uses drugs, joins a demonstration or riot, or in- dulges in \immoral behavior.\ But Liberty Baptist students don't have much of a chance to sin. Dorm officials inspect their rooms daily, while a guard oversees the single road en- trance to the campus. Students must sign out before leaving. They have to be back by 10:30 p.m. on weeknights, or 11:30 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. Faculty melllbers also must adhere to rigid standards. \No way will we hire a divorced persan for our faculty,\ asserts associate Dean Glenn Sumrall. Teachers must ''set Christian examples for the students.\ All of which makes for a quiet, well-ordered presence in the community. Normal town- gown tensions are minimal. Despite some con~plaints about students' attempts at proselytizing the unconverted, the students have made a generally favorable impression in Lynchburg. \They're ;good ;kids,\ says a local reporter, wha declined to be identified by name. ''They · act subdued and docile because everyone's watching 'Jerry's kids,' and. they're afraid to be themselves.\ Courtesy Wallace Tripp's \Wurst Cellar\ T-37 simulator for USAF's new Undergraduate Pilot Training program, complete with visual system attachment, moving on new six·degree-ol·freedom motion system. Proposal The deadline for proposals to the Internal Education Foun- dation in two categories-- student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\-falls on October 30. Notification for awards in both categories will be made by December 1. The deadline applies to proposals for projects to be undertaken . during the Winter and-or the Spring term. Proposals for student- initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Assistant to the Vice President for Acade:mic Mfairs office on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals' should submit them to the same office on forms · available there. Last year, in its fourth year of operation, I.E.F. made awards totaUing $83,660, to 47 projects. The approved projects were among 60 requests for a total of $149,386. Some $100,000 has been provided by the College to I.E.F. for the 1981-82 academic year. Inquiries about I.E.F. and proposal deadlines should be directed to the Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs. e e Link Simulation is Future Engineering Modern simulation technology was born at our company fifty two years ago and ever since then we've been the Indus· try's leader In the manufacturing of aviation and aerospace training devices. So If you're looking for a challenge; join us. We need people like you. We have some Immediate openings available for Elec· trlcal, Computer and Aerospace Engineers In Aircraft Simu- lation, Aerodynamics, Flight Navigation Communication Systems, Avionics, Flight Control Systems, and Circuit Design. If you're looking for.Qreatlve simulation, excellent career potential and one of the best salary and benefit plans In the Industry, get In touch with us. Send resume m confidence or call Conn1e Esworthy collect (607) 772·3161. Link FIIOMI SIMUlATION DIV1SION TH • • INIJ.III CCM .. ANY ' Bonghamlon. NY 13902 ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS Union College, October 14, 1981 I Tl slip] slip] the the· begl the v:ar ex:is beg< As a gl corn wat( arti~ real dem stooc cata play strm slidi1 thr01 on a then into1 wher so I I g time thOU! libra work wron I di LibrCI place camr meth the\' done himsc such and tl thath jump: begin ThE social type librar books walk, any or frustr take t over: My a stCI belief

OONOORDIENSIS, October 8, 1981 Page 5 features I -Blame It On Union ''Women's Health Care BySUSANSTERN for all students. At present, the health service at the' college does indeed have the resources to provide basic health care for men and women. from 9-5, by appointment. Working with Ms. Lasker this year will be Dr. Sari Kaminsky, a gynecologist. She will be seeing students at Ellis Hospital. Dr. Kaminsky will be available for those areas in whicl:i Ms. Lasker is limited;. for example, chronic infections, dsts, endometriosis. She win also prescribe birth control pills and IUD's. Dr. Kamisky is also available for routine examinations. She will be practicing in the outpatient facility at Ellis on Wednesday mornings between 10 and 12, free of charge. If there are fees, such as lab tests or prescription drugs, the student will be billed. For an appointment call the health service by Tuesday. 6y ERIC RUBEN Those grey steps are very slippery when wet. I almost slipped on them. When I opened the door hot air smacked me in _ the face like a freshman girl. I began my search. I had come to the library to observe the various forms of life that existed there. Once inside I began: As soon as I entered I caught a glimpse of him out of the corner of my .eye. I turned to watch him for he was truly an artist at his craft. He was tall, real tall. He had a strange, demonic sparkle in his eye. He stood right in front of the card catalog as if to embrace it. He played his ;rather large in- strument with .great care. First sliding out a drawer, looking through it, occasionally writing on a small piece of paper, and then sliding the drawer back into the cabinet: He was startled when he saw me watching him so I decided to move on. I guess I was naive. All this time here at Union and I thought that people came to the library to study or do academic work. I couldn't have been more wrong. I discovered that the Schaffer Library is the most popular place to socialize on the entire campus. One of the popular methods of meeting people is the \vulture'' technique. This is done when a person places himself in a strategic location such as a well traveled aisle, and then· when_he sees someone that he even remotely knows, he jumps out and greets him. This begins a half-hour conversation. The other popular way to . socialize is the \stalker.\ This type of person comes to the library, puts down over thirty books and then proceeds to walk, floor by floor, in search of anyone he can talk to. When frustrated, a stalker is known to take to the bathroom and start over again. My general research comes to a startling conclusion. The belief that anyone can work in .,· the library with these social animals is unfounded. ·It is however good to kr.~ow that there is always a place that people can go to right before mid-terms and finals to break the ice and enjoy themselves. As for the people whotry to do work there, I found it difficult to locate many of them. Union College provides an ideal setting in which to plan, implement, and evaluate a progre~sive health care program because of the in- stitution's commitment to improving the quality of life through education. It is the school's responsibility to provide adequate health care The Ideal Class By AMELIA TERHUNE Probably the least recognized provision of the health service is gynecological care. Gynecology is all integral anll essential part .of health care for women. The gynecologist provides ·the buik of women's needs, whether these needs be for an annua'l examination or for an im- mediate medical probblem. Susan Lasker, a member of the staff at Union's Health service, is qualified to meet most of the basic needs of women's health care. Among her skills are: performance of the annual examination, with pap smears, lab tests, evaluation and treatment for dysmenorrhea (menstrual cramps), birth control coun- seling and diaphragm fitting. Ms. Lasker is at the health The services offered by Ms. Lasker and Dr. Kaminsky are confidential. Please do not hesitate to call the health service at (Silliman Hall): 370- 6120. Have you ever c(lme out of a course feeling that it was one of the best you'd ever had? Why did you feel that way? Professors also have that ex· perience, and many descFibe it as a rare treat to teach ar.~ · \ideal\ class. After speaking to several professors in various depart- ments, a few common elements were found which seemed to be almost essential to create an ideal learning situation. Size, ureparation, and motivation were repeatedly mentioned as requisite elements of a near- perfect class. Professor Ket- terer of the Classics Depart- ment stated that he had had an ideal class last year when he taught Latin 11. Although there was a gradation of natural ability among the students, all were above average, highly motivated students with good senses of humor and personal interest in the subject. The size of the class was \just right'' - six or seven - and they all got along well together. In a larger class, Professor Ketterer en- joys good discussion, good questions, but no extraneous talking among the students. He finds it best, also, to have a mixture of males and females in the class. The ideal class n1d to have, in his view, is one made up of third term seniors! present. He believes the student learns best when thinking, writing, and arguing though mastery of fact:based material is important to do so effectively. Students who are actively curious about the material and who enjoy challenging the in- structor also seem to learn better. Professor Nichols wants respect, but not deference, from the student. jBi;thd~y Ideas l Political scientist Byron Nichols stresses that the ideal class differed from course to course, but that some essential characteristics should be A science professor said that the ideal learning situation is having the student on one end of a log, and a professor on the other end. In practice, however, this cannot be accomplished; individual research projects, small laboratory sections, and seminars of six to eight students seem to be as close to the ideal as we can come. In introductory courses, his feeling was that there was ,no reason to teach a small group when you can ef- fectively lecture to many. Philosopber and mathematician Sven Peterson seemed to be in agreement with the other professors; the ideal class is a small group of already knowledgeable, highly motivated and curious students who are willing to discuss the material, offer new ideas, and are able to question in- telligently. The next time you're in a class - small or large - speak up, be interested, and you'll be on your way to realizing an ideal class. By RICHARD L. SCOTT How do you say Happy Bir- thday? In our modern age, it is no longer as simple as cram- ming ten or fifteen people behind couches in a darkened room and having them leap up screaming, \Happy Birthday\ when the unsuspecting birthday boy-girlwalks through the door. No campers, the ways of delivering this sentiment are becoming much more sophisticated. There are even different methods for people of different means. For those incredibly affluent folks amongus, a casua' dinner at an exclusive bistro, with soft music, candlelight and a nice bottle of bubbly, could be the perfect atmosphere for a softly murmured \Happy Birthday\ in one of the romance languages (French is . preferred, Italian will do in a pinch). Next lowest in cost, and the newest form of expression, are the numerous types. of home delivery services. For example, for a nominal fee you can have a person dressed up in a gorilla suit ring your doorbell and sing you an aped-out version of \Happy Birthday.\ Also in the Add experience to y()nFdegree. --~.(_.•' ./ You've chan~·ed a lot of opinions since you entered college. You know a deg-ree may be the door-opener for a future caree1: But, you know a degree is no g·uarantee. . Today's job market demands more than a degree. Corporations look for \take charge\ attitudes in theit· new executives. So get a head start on your peers. They'll be competing with you for the be~t jobs later on. Army ROTC provides a head start in leadership and management experience. With Army ROTC, you don't just read about it. You do it. It's not too late to take charge. You can accomplish four years' work in two years. To add experience to your degree contact . same line with the gorilla is a company in Albany which is called Balloon-Age which delivers a bouquet of multi- colored balloons to the birthday person's door along with a rousing happy birthday chorus. A good old standby is the traditional singing telegram (Western Union) and that favGrite. fattening felicitious wish, the candy-gram. For those of us on a sliglltly more limited diet, you never really can go wrong with your basic $8.49 Price Chopper portable birthday party. For the birthday person, you can select from the \Chopper\ a wide selection of inexpensive cakes (free inscriptions), then add two bottles of soda, two bags of chips, a package of candles a11d a six pack of beer. Music for your dining and dancing pleasure can be provided by WRUC (For a birthday girl, get a cake with pink icing and make the six pack of beer a six pack of Tab). Any other way that you can think of to say Happy Birthd2y is fine. Just always remember to keep it a surprise and be stue to sing \Happy Birthday\ <Jn key! Call Cpt. Bill Terhune 518 783-2571 Arm ROTC. Learn what it takes to lead.

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, October 8, 1981 features . . . ' ' · .... ~ . . . . . , . . ~ '. . ' . . . . . ~ ' .· Interview with Don Spring: Maintaining a Balance By SAUL BERLEY important, its peop'le. He comments, \Thi's utilitarian institution serves as a stepping stone to the professional wodd. Union is an aggressive campus, with strong competition among students and stress from parents and faculty. A quality institution, the school takes pride in demanding much from its students.\ Don Spring The following is an interview with Don Spring, who was appointed by President Morris as -tbe Acting Dean of Students for the 1981-82 academic year. The dean sees Union College as an institution for academic excellence, with a close-knit student-faculty ratio and a friendly \ campus. As for the sa students, he sees them as \future professionals who want C. Could you eutline the duties of the Dean of Students? S. Dean Spring's primary responsibility is a \principal Hasen between students and faculty. He relays decisions to the students from the ad- ministration and verdicts from the Conduct Committee~ He stresses that \though he likes to be a student advocate he is an Blue Skies Over Union: Tasty Oysters ByD.BOOTH It is a well known fact that all months ending in \r\ share something in common. These are the months when oysters are in season. Oysters, those peculiar sea creatures which so many people claim to dislike, are not only a source of food and pearls, but are also, if old wives' tales are to be believed, a source of sexual vitality. Like the oyster each of these take their taste from their surrouildings, from mountains to oceans. Luxuries one may never have considered ex- periencing lie ripe for the harvest. The t;arth spreads herself wide and full - who can pass up the opportunities she offers? o. Booth corrects his error. There has been a black walnut tree discovered on campus. to make something of them- selves.\ Dean Spring has found this job to be a \pure pleasure\ and he looks forward to meeting many more interesting people. C. What is the purpose o£ the new party policy? S. \It must be clarified that this policy is not to invade the student's option toparty.lt is an attempt by the school to be reasonably responsible for students in terms of security. Also, it serves the purpose of coordinating student activities by avoiding the overlapping of events.\ C. Why do you think you were appointed to this office? S. Being also a professor of psychology, Dean Spring feels that he is familiar with the school, its attitudes, and most . authority figure, also in _charge of residence, food, the in- firmary, and student ac- tivities.\ C. What do you consider to be the hardest part .of the job? S. His answer stemmed from the fact that there are many interest groups with varied concerns. Dean Spring ex-· plained te me that ''conflicts are inevitable and some students will feel hurt, but his door is always open to justify his decisions to anyone.\ There seems to- be more than a mere shred of truth to this. tale. Just as. scientists discovered that common foxglove (Digitalis purpurea) contained a medicine useful ·in treatment of heart disease (Digitalin), a fact known to herbalists for centuries, they are not discovering that oysters, and their kissing cousines, the clam and the mussel, contain large amount of protein. It seems fairly logical that a large dose of protein would impart some vim and vigor to a waning sexual ap- petite. A Freshman\s Reflections Of course at Union I am certain that there is no need to discuss this aspect of the oyster. Its smooth taste, rich of the sea and salt waves, tangy from the minerals in the rocks it clings to, slightly bitter with the memory of earth and sand, the taste, oh that taste; cannot be rivaled. There is a definite feel of luxury in' scooping the oysters fn>m their little pink shells and placing the undefinable creamy colored mass into one's mouth. For a moment the senses reel, experiencing a variety of tastes, then, ever so slowly the oyster slides down the throat. But why tantalize the taste buds with the thought of such delicacies? Well, the basic reason is that besides being the season for harvesting oysters, it is also the season for harvesting other crops. Celebrations, like The Oktoberfest, now over, and our own Thanksgiving, are celebrations of a good harvest. The harvest of the land and the sea occurring at the same season has even started a tradition in many American households of cooking oyster stuffmg with the Thanksgiving meal. The bountiful earth, kept well and cared for, provides many types of harvestible goods, each as sweet and full as the next. By MARK MORTENSEN As I entered the Union College grounds as a freshman for the first time, I didn't see how it could be much different from high school. Of course I won- dered how the others would react to the sudden in- dependence from parent- imposed curfews and prohibitions, but I figured that we'd settle into the academic routine when the work piled on. I was quickly proven mistaken. My first impression was that I had been lied to by high school guidance counselors, college catalog writers, and everyone else who told me that this wasn't a party school. We went from beer halls to beer kegs to the Miller truck to Frat parties and found enough free brew to counter the financial strain of a thirty-dollar Calc book and a pair of spaceman Chemistry goggles. We had gotten our first practical lesson in Economics. We spent the first four days trying to ignore the academic side of the school, and despite the administration's periodical reminders that we were here for an education (such as the lecture on plagiarism, the Alma Mater meeting, and the enlightening freshman survey- just when you thought it was safe to throw away those No. 2 pencils~) it went quite smoothly. We made it through a deck show at Girling Center that went from bad to worse (thanks to Miller beer and a timely rainbow) and enjoyed our first exposure to Cabaret, Price Chopper, and dining at luxurious West College. All in· Welcom~ Dock Alums all, those four days will soon be forgotten by most of us. There were a lot of familiar experiences packed in with the new ones. Recycled food, threats of exams and all the notices posted by various organizations (This club or that club cordially invites you to get wasted and then agree to become a member.) all brought back those memories from years gone by. Some things just never change. There were also many unanswered questions that the first weeks brought on. \Why can't I carry a half-eaten ice cream cone out of the dining hall?\ \Why is there a hump in the astroturf?\ \Why do they put fire extinguishers (Those lovely, decorative models color coordinated to go with the walls- -you get a choice of Fire Red or Fire Red, unless of course you prefer Fire Red. . . ) in all rooms and then not allow heaters or cooking?\ \When does Schenectady's monsoon season end?\ ... At least we had something to write home about. Ah, the art of writing home. We were quick to realize that there's not much to write about except academics and alcohol. I wonder how many other fresh- men \forgot\ to mention all the parties and stuck to what Mom and Dad wanted to hear. \Yes I'm studying hard ... of course I'm eating all my vegies ... no, it's not hard to study (even though every room within a 200- yard radius has a different song cranked up to maximum volume on the stereo) . . . \ We wasted their money on our lies when we called them (collect, of course). Being here at Union is going to be an experience we'll never forget. (Not necessarily because we learn anything, but we will-hopefully-spend four of the best years .of our life here.) Let's make an honest .effort to make them great. This will probably be the last time we spend $9,000 for a good time. Jesus said, \I am the vine, ye· are the branches: He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much frUito for without me ye .can do nothing.\ -John 15•5 The Union College Christian Fellowship will hold Bible Studies every Wednesday from 4:4:30-5:30 pm in the fourth floor of Carnegie Hall. Prof. Charles Scaife of the Chemistry Dept. will be leading the study. · Everyone is welcome. Bring your Bible and yourself. We'll look forward to seeing you there! ·C. Being a professor of psychology, will your training in this field be useful on the job? S. Interestingly, Dean s:pring pointed out that the answer is two-fold. He benefits OY \seeing into many different points of view.\ On the other hand, he thinks this can prove a \hinderence; being able to know too muciJ: aboat a person while holding a conversation.\ C. Do you have any personal dreams for Union? S. \There must be a balance between extra-curricular ac- tivities and the classroom. Going to college is more than attending class. It is learning, growing up, developing a moral code, which all in turn can only be fully attained if these two systems are in balance.\ C. What do you think about the student housing at Union? ' S. Dean Sprirtg provided me with some very interesting statistics. There are 205 fresh- man who live in 41 five man (woman) suites. He referred to this situation as \less than ideal educational living conditions.\ This is what he feels represents student needs and the school has responded by fixing up West College during the summer and by planning to improve other dorms, fraternities, and sororities in the near future. C. What do you think the students want out of Union? S. \The students demand a lot from the professors. They expect teachers to deliver in- formation well, be organized and well-prepared, and know what they are talking about. The students see Union as a stepping stone and insist it be a solid one.\ C. Could you comment on Schenectady as a college city. S. He answered me by saying ''Schenectady is better than being isolated.\ I tpen asked him how he feels about student cars. The answer again had two sides. \The campus does not have the capacity to park 2000 cars, but automobiles provide easier access to the cultural stimulation of Albany, New York City, and Boston than do buses or trains.\ · C. What are your views on the drinking policy? S. Dean Spring had another interesting reply. He feels that \drinking is part of our culture and we must all have attitudes and guidelines. People should explore the meaning of drinking and as adults, should develop a stand on this experience.\ He then instituted the following: \Drinking is not an excus.e for destructive behavior and the school is not sponsoring it. Union will not represent drunkenness.\ C. Do you get out on campus 'to see how students are doing? S. \When I can and when I have time.\ The dean told me that he wants to hear and un- derstand student concerns but he must also keep a \professional distance\. He is not the \Student's pal.\ C. Could you describe the qualities that you feel to be most important for an ideal dean of students to have? S. \He or she should be synipathetic and be able to get along with many types of people. The dean is a spokesman but must also JTlake clear that every student whim cannot be emphasized at the expense of the school. Most important, the dean must be reasonable.\ Ca\ Toh stud en be a 1 questit since t the fir parke( Wash I ticket discl:IS: venien home, dinner etc. 0 being .. others, City E the C[ Unio campu that : horror would Colleg1 sidera transp' a road did he] Gate. ~ often c throug: not tribula brings is plen1 is all in are Ur and al Librar' South · Ramee designE Arne ric incoher pattern None to get mobile posses: advant Capita: tady unreac throug: McDor certai: those \i The Trust < has aVI and J Fellow: gradm Plum Massa< Kenr Laude SciencE was.no Prize Essay. Becker Scienc stan din study o Chidse: senior tributic respon studen1 ServicE servicE beyon• requirE amem Societ~ tributi< Comffil Asar

OONOORDIENSIS, October 8, 1981 Page 7 features Campus Lifestyle: Power Talks Car less or Care-Less What is power? How do women and men use and abuse it dHferently? How do you handle a power situation at work or in your personal relationships? and tufNon is $50. By HIT To have a ear and be a Union student, or not to have a car and be a Union student? That is .a question. Debate has raged since that day back in 1898 when the first mobile Union student parked his Model T in front of Washburn Hall and was ti-cketed. To the present, discussion goes on. The con- venience of a car; so easy to go home, so easy to go shopping, to dinner on the town, to a movie, etc. Or the iRconveniences of being .. carless: a prisoner to others, to Amtrak's Electric City Epress, to Greyhound, to the CDTA. Union College is a walking campus. We can only believe that Ramee could see the horrors that the automobile would bring and so designed a College campus with no con- sideration for mechanized transport. Ramee did not build a road across Library Field nor did he leave us a key to the Blue Gate. Crossing The Grounds is often compared to Moses' trek through the Sinai. Parking is not without .trials and tribulations. Yes, Security often brings it to our attention that it is plentiful and this is so, but it is all in the wrong places. There are Union students who drive and also get mail, use the Library, or live in North or South College. We can thank Ramee for the first coherently designed. College Campus in America and also for the first incoherently designed traffic patterns. None of us, though, have cars to get around campus. The mobile among us justify the possession of cars by taking advantage of those places in the Capital District and Schenec- tady proper that are unreachable a pied. Walking through the drive-through at McDonalds is not unheard of but certainly uncommon. Only those with cars would know the subtle joys of Schenectady: the purely divine\'B.ura the smellr the taste, the fee.l of a Mike's . Dog all the ~ay; the extra greas~ the crunch, the aroma of a cl~m, fry with spuds at J~pm Jacks. The forty-eight a1~les of Price Chopper, the slime at dawn at the \Bran- dyswine,\ a taco at Taco J's a Wild Bill's Wing. The carless. Where do they eat? \Go North, youn·g man,\ the air it rings. Seventeen miles to Saratoga and by definition, Skidmore. T & L's, Barclay's, The Pour House, The Rafters, The Metro. Oh, the carless, where do they drink? Homeward bound, by car, no problem. The Thruway to the Big Apple with its sights; New Baltimore, Bambi Manor (does anyone really Iiv.e there?), the bridges. The Pike home to Boston with its sights: Mt. Greylock, Worcester, the rotaries. Goodbye Amtrak. Goodbye Greyhound. Goodbye Adirondack Airways. The carless, how do they get home? Live. at Union is made more simple with a car. But how do the carless survive? \Ain't got nocar.l'm a moocher. I get real chummy with someone who's got wheels and I leach along,\ comments one of our more articulate students. \There's CDTA, No. 55 down State Street, past Colonie Center, and on to Albany. It's pretty reliable but there isn't much status attached to public transport,\ comments a Junior who asked to remain anonymous. A fraternity man adds, \Not having a car is terrible. Being pennyless, hungover, and carless at Skidmore on a Sunday morning is not fun. It's a long walk down Route 50.\ Schenectady is a walking city. Everything is so accessible: Englebart's, Canal Square, A & P, the City Mission,\ posits a Sophomore. The carless do live, too, maybe a little more difficulty involved, . Grad Awarded The Chi Psi Educational Trust announced today that it has awarded its 1981 Stanley and Jane Birge Graduate Fellowship to Union College graduate, Kenneth Richard Plum of East Longmeadow, Massachusetts. Kenneth graduated Cum Laude with Honors in Political Science in 1980. His senior thesis was nominated for the Ingham Prize for Outstanding Senior · Essay. He was a Stanley J. Becker Scholar in Political Science; awarded for Out- standing chievement in the study of Politics; the Alan Lake Chidsey Citizenship Award to a senior far distinctive con· tribution to the advancement of responsible government in student affairs; the Meritorious Service Award to a senior for service in .any field, above and beyond the normal requirements of duty; and was a member of the Delphic Honor Society for exemplary con- tribution to the Union College Community. As an undergraduate Kenneth was Student Body President to the Union College Student Forum after serving as a Junior Class Representative. He was also a student member of the Drafting Committee on College Governance, a Junior-senior Class Representative to the Political Science Department, an Alumni council represen- tative for the class of 1980, a Stud~nt Athletic Trainer, for the Union College Athletic Department, and a member of several Chi Psi F·raternity intramural sports teams. In 1978 Kenneth served a ten- week full time internship in the office of Co_ngressman Jack F. Kemp (R-NY) and, the following year, a twenty-week part-time internship in the New York State Legislature, in the office of State Senator Franz S. Leichter (D). Later in 1979, he was selected as a delegate to \Business Tomorrow V: 'Choices for the 80's,\ held in Atlanta, Georgia and sponsored by Business Today Magazine. Kenneth now attends Western New England. School of .Law. but they still live. Union has had at least a century of doing it carless . Chester Arthur walked. Eliphaelet walked. Seward walked. We can walk too. But gas is cheap, the Dogs are waiting, Price Chopper is ad- ding another aisle, and Officer Stacey has a ticket quota to fill, maybe you need a car. To most of us it seems that being mobile or immobile is somewhat in- significant. Whether to be carless or to care-less? That is the real question. \The Use and Abuse of Power in Relationships,\ a non-credit course being held this fall at Union College, will explore these questions and suggest strateg,ies to increase in- terpersonal effectiveness. The four-part program will be held Mondavs beginning October 26, Instructor Susan D. Britain is an adjunct assistant professor at Union. She received her doctorate in psychology from the University of British Columbia. For more information on this · or any of the 30 other non-credit courses being offered at Union College this fall, contact the office of Graduate and Con- tinuing Studies, 1 Union Ave. A free course brochure is available. The .Shoals Experience By the \gang\ of Bio 052 Ah,' sweet Appledore· where the smell of the sea or kitchen fills my nose, where the screaming gulls, and the pounding waves keep rhythm with the chords of Neil Young, where fairytale words like Strongylocentrotus drobach- iensis and Crepidula fornicata come to life, where brave new discoveries of tunicates and salt crystals, of tubenoses and sea sickness emerge, where even the dormitories seem to come alive with the sound of snapping defiant crabs and soft, forgiving algae; a place of mycid and men. When we all signed up for Bio 052last winter, all of us knew a two-week field course in marine biology would be exciting. No one expected that the sight of the fading_ rocky shores of The Isles of Shoals would be so dramatic. The seventeen students, plus \Barb and Carl,\ realized that we must return again to the mainland, laun- ching all of us, from Vanessa to Yogi, into a \post-Shoals\ depression. And, despite Carl George's best attempt to feign car troubles with his reliable Jeep (\could it be true he left the parking lights on?\) we were once again en route to our Alma Mater. Appledore Island, one of The Isles of Shoals, is geographically about the same size as Union; it is but an hour boat ride on The Viking Queen from charming Portsmouth, N.H., a boat ride which for a few of us, who shall remain nameless, was long enough to .get \the greens.\ Live on the island is of a very different nature than back home at Union. For those of you who cannot do without modern conveniences from blow dryers to HBO, I bid you remain ashore. Roughing it is definitely in at Appledore, with many of us complying to the shower-a-week regulation; dorms were not exactly five star, and there was no heat to be had, but the best thing of all was no one cared. Our group was spectacular, cultivating a comradery and warmth for one another in record time. The academic . atmosphere was one students thought existed only in theory, with an intangible respect and sincere desire to help each other 'felt by all. Profs Boyer and George, or Barb and Carl at their behest, rose to all oc· casions and in the· group's opinion, genuinely filled the role of educator. Classes were held in the classroom, knee-deep in ·algae, on the field trips, in the back of a boat, or over lunch. Work was long more than it was intense, with morning classes starting promptly at 0830 and sometimes ending as late as 2200 hours with no breaks ex- cept meals. The staff at Appledore was energetic _ps well as creative, especially in the kitchen. For our first dinner we were greeted with a smile, lobster and butter sauce, and from there the meals got better with usually two different types of bread and desserts that would embarrass Mom. . So much more could be said about our Shoals experience, so many more stories related, philosophies shared, but any of us will tell you the scant two weeks that sped by was much more than a course in marine biology. College Graduates: DISCOVER YOUR POTENTIAL AS A LAWYER'S ASSISTANT . . . at Adelphi! ~ore and more law ~irms and corporations are hiring lawyeF\s assistants for challengmg and rewarding careers. Salaries at all leve~s have increased \:'ith the e;araordinary growth of this pro- fession, and top lawyers assistants earn as much as $32,000. The Lawyer's Assistant Program at Adelphi University is the largest and oldest ABA-approved program of its kind in New York State, with more than 3,000 graduates. At Adelphi, it takes just three months of concentrated daytime study (or six months in the evening) to prepare for a career as a lawyer's assistant. Courses offered in: GARDEN CITY, L.l., HUNTINGTON, L.l. and MANHATIAN. Could This Be The Career You've Been Looking For? >7 Y~u owe it to yourself to find out! And you can-easily, and Without cost or obl'\\\t·ir.n MAIL THIS COUPON TODAYI Or, telephone right now: (516) 663-1004 Approved for V.A. and N.Y.S. Higher Education Loans. 1--·----·--·---------------- ..... ------- The Lawyer's Assistant Program Adelphi University Garden City,L.I., N.Y. 11530 In cooperation with 'Fhe Natiohal Center for Paralegal Training, Inc. Name Address City State Please send me a copy of the Adelphi University Lawyer's Assistant Pro- gram catalog for 1981/82. Zip Home Phone _ School Phone ADELPHI illJWTI'&TE~ITJTif CC(Q)ILJLIECGIE UNIVERSITY IFCDffi &JI»TIJIIL1r~ A~elphi University Admits Student.s On The Ba~t~ 0! lnJtt'rdual Mt'ltl '\nd WJthour Regard To Race. Color, Creed. Sex Or Age.

A Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, Octobe,r 8, 1981 Editorials Party Policy Points Last week Ooncordiemis published an article announcing the distribution of notices outlining the lJnion College party policy. There has been considerable discussion concerning the enforcement of said policy since the ,publication of the last issue. Several points concerning the policy must be clarified in order to understand exactly what is involved. To begin with, the policy is not a new one. It has been ''in effect'' for .ap- proximately three years. The reason the poUcy was printed this year was because a notice was sent out to the fraternities, sororities and resident advisors. We felt that the campus in general should be aware of the policy. Since the policy has been in effect for some time now, it is important for us to take a look at the past record of enforcement. In this waY-.we can get a feel for the attitude of security and the administration regarding this matter. In the recent past, with the exception of isolated incidents, the party poUcy has not been en- .forced with the fervor tllat some now fear. This policy record may ben an in- dication of future activity and sentiment on the part .of security and the ad- ministration, but then again, this year is different from last. Only time will tell. Be that as it may, the initial impetus for instituting a party policy is a valid one. We like the idea that the students will be regarded as mature. individuals, and as such, they will register a party as soon as possible before hand to insure the security, and subsequently the ''fun'' of a party. It a particular weekend is ''slated'' for a great number of parties, it is not unreasonable to let security know if we are having parties so that they may make suitable accommodations in their routine and schedule. This is a courtesy that, as adults, we should be more than willing to extend. In addition, there is a certain limit to the amount of noise and debris that any one party should be allowed to produce. But this raises a very tnt- resting question. - If the party policy is in fact enforced, who is to determine at what point a party has gotten too loud? Is it up to the opinion of the officers on duty, or based on the number of complaints received? Should it make a difference whether the complaint about a party be made by a student on the next floor, or by a citizen of _.Schenectady who lives near the Mohawk River? Given the difficulty of deter- mining what constitutes noise and a nuisance, one might even consider the bells of St. Ann on Seward Place a constant annoyance as they ring every Sunday morning at an ungodly hour. In addition, the initial fine that might be levied for failure to register the party five days prior to ''party time'' might be a bit steep. It might make more sense to offer a warning to the offending organization. The penalties for noise, damage, or other conduct are possibly a bit too large, considering the operating budgets of most organizations for their social activities. We understand that in order to be effective, the fines must make a dent, but they should not decimate the group's finances. Perhaps the issue is not so much the party policy itself, but the ambiguities in the policy, and the manner in which it might be enforced. These issues are the ones of most importance, and the ones to which the student body should address itself. Never a Solution A gun. Angry people. How much more does it take to change history? Not much. We have seen proof of that time and time again. Lincoln, the Kennedys, Sadat most recently. Providence has spared the world the lives of our President and the Pope. Individuals could not predict what the future would hold after the assassination of these men, nor can they now. Egyptian President Anwar Sadat will be remembered differently by many. There are those who disagreed, even hated what he stood for, just as there are those who believed in the man and his ideals. But we must all believe together that murder is no way for any person to leave the world. As a civilization we must mourn the death of one among many leaders in the world. President Sadat joins the ranks of those who were killed for what they believed in. Humanity must be angered and saddened by such action. People must be free to believe what they wlll. -The loss of truly great men, great in the sense that their ideas affected the lives of many, is a loss that must be suffered by all. We mourn the death of President Sadat, but even more, we mourn the state of humanity that can give rise to the assassin. \Nonviolence is the answer to the c.rucial political and moral questions o.f our time; the need .for man to overcome oppression and violence without resorting to • oppression and violence. Man must evolve .for all human conflict a method which re}ects revenge, ag!(ression and retaliation.\ Martin Luther King, Jr., Speech accepting Nobel Peace Prize (December 11, 1964) Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editor Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Assistant Sports Editor Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Cartoonists Rachel I. Mandel, Paul Grossmau Julie Isgro Ed Albro Naomi Blank Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Jay McDermott, Rob Norton· Drew Hurley Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner David Neiblum, Lisa Snyder Staff Mandy Abrans,Steven Auerbach, Saul Berley, Alan Binkow, Norman Birnbach, Dan Booth, Thomas Ching, Sharon Feldman, Anne Keetz, Doug Landon, Susan Linehan, Mike Meany, Rich Mintz, Peter Mohr, Mark Mortensen, D.C. Owens, Eric Ruben, Amelia A. Terhune Business Staff Photo Staff Jenny .Anller, Evelyn GW'din, Dianne Pavacic Janet Guiliano, Norman Pfiaster, Robert Tang .CONCORDIENSIS is published. every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 56~7151. Entered in. the Schenectady Post Office as third cla~s matter. Subscript,ion' rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). ~ re1 sti WE pr' en ~c wi cb ev pa fo1 1 );}a in de He WE be thl thl im ho al1 .fm stl ho op UI ] H<J thE Gr stt en SUJ trt WE thE thl pl:: COl ea Ail M:: Cl A-y Bl1 Br Bu ( ni1 Co Fr Rc to w:: in: UII

Page 8 OONCORDIENSIS, October 8, 1981 Editorials Letters Party Policy Points Last week Ooncordien.sis published an article aanouncing the distribution of notices outlining the Union College party poltcy. There has been considerable discussion concerning the enforcement of said policy since the publication of the last issue. Several points concerning the policy must be clarified in order to understand exactly what is involved. To begin with, the policy is not a new one. It has been \in effect\ for ap- proximately three years. The reason the policy was printed this year was because a notice was sent out to the fraternities, sororities and resident advisors. We felt that the campus in general should be aware of the policy. Since the policy has been in effect for some time now, it is important for us to take a look at the past record of enforcement. In this way we can get a feel for the attitude of security and the administration regarding this matter. In the recent past, with the exception of isolated incidents, the party policy has not been en- forced with the fervor that some now fear. This policy record may ben an in· dication of future activity and sentiment on the part of security and the ad- ministration, but then again, this year is different from last. Only time will ten. Be that as it may, the initial impetus for instituting a party policy is a valid one. We like the idea that the students will be regarded as mature individuals, and as such, they will register a party as soon as possible before hand to insure the security, and subsequently the \fun\ of a party. If a particular weekend is ''slated'' for a great number of parties, it ts not unreasonable to let security know if we are having parties so that they may make suitable accommodations in their routine and schedule. This is a courtesy that, as adults, we should be more than willing to extend. In addition, there is a certain limit to the amount of noise and debris that any one party should be allowed to produce. But this raises a very tnt- resting question. If the party policy is in fact enforced, who is to determine at what point a party has gotten too loud? Is it up to the opinion of the officers on duty, or based on the number of complaints received? Should it make a difference whether the complaint about a party be made by a student on the next floor, or by a citizen of Schenectady who lives near the Mohawk River? Given the difficulty of deter- mining what constitutes noise and a nuisance, one might even consider the bells of St. Ann on Seward Place a constant annoyance as they ring every Sunday morning at an ungodly hour. In addition, the initial fine that might be levied for failure to register the party five days prior to \party time\ might be a bit steep. It might make more sense to offer a warning to the offending organization. The penalties for noise, damage, or other conduct are possibly a bit too large, considering the operating budgets of most organizations for their social activities. We understand that in order to be effective, the fines must make a dent, but they should not decimate the group's finances. Perhaps the issue is not so much the party policy itself, but the ambiguities in the policy, and the manner in which it might be enforced. These issues are the ones of most importance, and the ones to which the student body should address itself. Never a Solution A gun. Angry people. How much more does it take to change history? Not much. We have seen proof of that time and time again. Lincoln, the Kennedys, Sadat most recently. Providence has spared the world the lives of our President and the Pope. Individuals could not predict what the future would hold after the assassination of these men, nor can they now. Egyptian President Anwar Sadat will be remembered differently by many. There are those who disagreed, even hated what he stood for, just as there are those who believed in the man and his ideals. But we must all believe together that murder is no way for any person to leave the world. As a civilization we must mourn the death of one among many leaders in the world. President Sadat joins the ranks of those who were killed for what they believed in. Humanity must be angered and saddened by such action. People must be free to believe what they wilL The loss of truly great men, great in the sense that their ideas affected the lives of many, is a loss that must be suffered by all. We mourn the death of President Sadat, but even more, we mourn the state of humanity that can give rise to the assassin. \Non violence is the answer ttJ the crucial political and moral questions o.f our tirne; the need .for man to orercome oppression and violence without resorting to . oppression and violence. Man must evolve .for all human conflict a method which reJects revenge, agl{ressioa and retaliation.\ Martin Luther Kin!{, ]r., Speech accepifin~ Nobel Peace Prize (December 11, 1964) .. · e 1tomprotmse ·fonnUl~, at . .. tbis proc~ss iS a ·careful ori'e. Fnr'iS not gt>od legiSlation wl'>rtb th~ time and trouble · needed to,(lrtforc~ it? we·mlJSt l)t.f}\rlde; aS\ the emstillg' e(}{n- pf:<{)ffljse does* for Ameri{J~'s needs 7 f0l\>fu~l~ raw ma:ll't\rial~, ·AND-wilderness. We must kill the S. 842 (Anti- W:ilderness) and · Santini (Mining Suprem~ey) Bills, and any nther efforts tbat threaten to destroy our precious lands. We must ~ork as deter- minedly with our government as we wantthem ttr work for us. So, listen. DQ som~thing big. Save this , land~ WRITE the United States Senators and-or Representatives for your state. reasons we It's n<lt that hard to do. Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editor Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Assistant Sports Editor Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Cartoonists MaryM ......... uc:u Jeffrey H. Alexander Mn.t-nftv Charles L. \ ........... . PeterJ .. Michael ... !:l,.h.,.,,.. Rachel I. Mandel, Paul Grossmau Julie Isgro Ed Albro Naomi Blank Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Jay McDermott, Rob Norton Drew Hurley Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner David Neiblurn, Lisa Snyder Staff Mandy Abrans, Steven Auerbach, Saul Berley, Alan Binkow, Norman Birnbach, Dan Booth, Thomas Ching, Sharon Feldman, Anne Keetz, Doug Landon, Susan Linehan, Mike Meany, Rich Mintz, Peter Mohr, Mark Mortensen, D.C. Owens, Eric Ruben, Amelia A. Terhune Business Staff Photo Staff Jenny Amler, Evelyn Gurdin, Dianne Pavacic Janet Guiliano, Norman Pflaster, Robert Tang CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in. the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. S11bscriptiori rate: 3S cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). I ; I '· ! '! I i \ ·; ! : I r. li !'\ i 1 r I t ! ' ! l r rei sti WE pr en ac wi, cl< ev pa fol ha in de He WE be thl thl im ho al1 for sh ho op Ur l He thl Gr st1 en su: tn W€ thl th< pl< COl ea AI1 M< Cl Ay Bl1 Br Bu ( ni: c(] Fr Rc to w< in: UI1

OONOORDIENSIS, October 8, 1981 Page 9 r H '.81 The College on the Hill By'l'lMOTHY MARA October 8, 9, and 10 marks the return of that venerated in• stitution, the fall homecoming weekend. The Union edition promises a most active and entertaining respite from ~cademic pressures replete with the traditional gridiron classic; homecoming parade, evening dance, symposia, parties, receptiens, and hearty food and drink. While homecomings past have experienced a stagnation in .spirit accompanying the demanding · fall schedule, Homecoming '81, the jubilee weekend of the term, has benefited from a swell of en- thusiasm heretofore unseen at the \College en the Hill.\ Other institutions may complain that homecoming is little more than alumni relations. Union i:s .fortunate to number among its students those who understand homecoming to be a unique opportunity to \Discover Union.\ Preparations for the 59th Homecoming began well before the class of 1981left the College Grounds. Several dedicated students devoted time and energy during the spring and summer months to assure the tremendous success of the weekend. An able testimony to the spirit of the calss of 1985 was their surprising turnout as plans became finalized and the countdown began during the early weeks of the school year. Among these students are: Marabeth Soltis (Homecoming Chairperson), Cheryl Aylesworth, Bob Beard, Janet Blum, Jean Bradley, SharQ.n Bran, Bob Brewster, Claire Burchill, Jim Carroll, Matt Goben, Carla Cogan, Laurie Corkum, Kelly Dennin, Beth Donaghue, Ira Dworkin, Dave Fitzgerald, Mike Fox, Pete Frank; Cathy Good, Sue Gray, Lynne Greenberg, Dave Greenway, Darcy Ham- merman, Greg Hedman, Ellen Holtzman, Cathleen Howard, Maria Kansas, Anne Keetz, Mark Klaiman, Larry Koved, Steve Larson, Aimee Levine, Tim Mara, John Mracek, Gail Mund, Dave Owens, Dave Patalita, Ed Pletrnan., Nancy Raisman, Allyson Ramsey, Kip Rheinbold, Larry Rifkin, Holly Rozelle, Cathy Rusik, Ron Sca~cia, Mary Ann Sciortino, Larry Shapiro, Shelly Stroud, Kathy Tessier, Ann Weber, Pete Wool, and Linda Ziman. Important events during the three-day festival of Union include Saturday morning's Homecoming Parade th.roughout and around the Union College Grounds and the .~omecoming football classic; this year's edition pitting Union's undefeated Dutchmen against the highly touted Mules of Colby College. After relaxing with the Union College Jazz Ensemble at the President's post-game reception, one can look forward to a wealth of activity during the evenin,g hours Saturday. Union's five men's and women's choral groups take the stage at Memorial Chapel to present their annual homecoming concert. This year's group will once again entreat all alumni and friends to join ina resounding salute to the alma mater to close the concert. Shortly thereafter Dr. Paul V. Turner '62 will present the Walter C. Baker lecture \Nott Ramee, and Jefferson: A New Odell at Coffeehous.e Carolyn Odell will he retur- ning to the Union College Coffeehouse once again this · Friday night in the Cabaret Room. As in the past, she is sure to delight the audience with her warm and expressive voice, instrumental skill, humor, and unique style. Accompanying herself on guitar and banjo, she combines the elements of folk, blues, ragtime, and jazz into a distinctive blend of traditional and contemporary music. The performance begins at 9:30 p.m. and admission is one dollar. Free coffee, cider, and donuts will be served. Interpretation'' in the chapel. Apart from the traditional Fraternity and Sorority parties and frequent forays to the Hathskellar, this year's homecoming marks the ·initiation of a new tradition at the college; Saturday night's Harvest Moon Dance at the Alumni Gym. For three days pretend that you never heard of the Senior Thesis, Organic Chemistry Lab, Renaissance Literature, and the like and re-discover at least paM of the reason you are at Union College. Homecoming 1981. Edie Berkowitz, Director of Alumni Attairs Glee Clubs Give Concert By CATHY A VERSA . and TIM MCNERNEY The Men's and Women's Glee Clubs will be presenting their annual Homecoming Concert this Saturday, October 10, at 7:30 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel. This will be the group's first formal concert of the season under the direction of F. John Adams, who is replacing Hugh Allen Wilson while he is on sabbatical. The selections of the Women's Glee Club include 16th century madrigals by Melchior Schaerer, Orazio Vecchi, and by Thomas Weelkes, the better known of the three. The women will also perform a psalm by Franz Shubert and Johannes Brahms' folk song, \In Stiller Nacht.\ · The Men's Glee Club will be singing a wid spectrum of music, from the powerful \Brothers Sing On,\ considered by many to be the \national anthem\ of men's glee Clubs, to Vottoria's beautiful piece, \0 ' Vos Omnes,\ as well as another madrigal by Thomas Weelkes, a spiritual by John W. Work, and the well known Scottish folk sang, \Loch Lomond,\ of \You'll take the high road and I'll take the low road\ fame. The combined choruses will conclude the concert with the choral dances from \Gloriana which Benjamin Britten composect\'for the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II, and the traditional medley of Union College songs, including, of course, the Alma Mater. Both groups have a very exciting year ahead of them, as the women have planned a concert exchange with the Worchester Polytechnic Institute Men's Glee· Club. Union's men, who have a similar exchange scheduled, will be traveling to Wellesley in November, whHe the Wellesley women will be visiting Union in the spring. In the winter, both glee clubs will be joining forces with several other choirs, and a professional orchestra and soloists to perform the Verdi \Requiem\ also in Worchester, Mass. The Men's and Women's Glee Clubs are always in need of new members as old members graduate, t9,ke four courses, et cetera. Rehearsals are on Mondays from 6: 15-8:00 and Thursdays from 8:15-10:00 for the men, and on Mondays from 8:15-10:00 and Thursdays from 6:15-8:00 for the women. Interested? More information is available in the Arts Depart- ment office. And DONT FORGET THE CONCERT this Saturday at 7:30 p.m.; admission is free. Can you think of a better way to captlll\e the Homecoming '81 spirit? Dance Extension Performs The Dance Club is sponsoring a performance by the \Dance Extension,\ a student run group from Brown University. The performance will take place this Saturday, October 10, at 4:30 in Memorial Chapel. The dancers, like their Union counterparts, take classes in both modern dance and ballet itt Brown. However, in addition to classes, the dancers also work together for hours afterwards practicing the dances which are part of their repertoire. The three dances which will be part of this Saturday's performance are: Hoe Down, Trio, and Elephantes Exotiques. Hoe Down, as its name implies, is a country square dance per- formed to music by the David , Bromberg Band. Trio will be performed to music by Vivaldi, and Elephantes Exotiques is accompanied by a tuba quartet. This afternoon of dance promises to be one of great variety and entertainment. So du not forget: Saturday, October 10, 4:30p.m., Memorial Chapel, Free Admission. Homecoming Dance This year's Homecoming, besides all of last year's events will include a Harvest Moon Dance. The Harvest Moon Dance will take place on Saturday, October 10, at 9:30 p.m. in Alumni Gym and will end at 1:00 a.m. Sunday mor- ning. The dance is semiformal and will have big band music supplied by the Union Jazz Ensemble and fillers by WRUC. There will be a cash bar as well as apple cider. Welcom• Back Alums During the dance there will be a Jack-o-Lantern contest with prizes awarded. There will also be a break at 10: 30 p.m. to go to Library Field to see the firewor. Hope to see you at Alumni Gym and the rest of the Homecoming events. (]) c: t1J I >- .0 0 +- 0 .I:. 0..

i ': I '· '' I \ ! I r ·. l it, l I ! I I I t l ,, I 'l l I . CONOORDIENSIS, October 8, 1981 Page 9 '81 The College on the Hill By TIMOTHY MARA October 8, 9, and 10 marks the return of that venerated in- stitution, the fall hGmecoming weekend. The Union editioN. promises a most active and entertaining respite from academic pressures replete wi,th the traditional gridiron classic, homecoming parade, evening dance, symposia, parties, receptions, and hearty foed and drink. While homecomings past have experienced a stagnation in spirit accompanying the demanding fall schedule, Homecoming '81, the jubilee weekend of the term, has benefited from a swell of en- thusiasm heretofore unseen at the \College on the Hill.\ Other institutions may complain that homecoming is little more than alumni relations. Union is fortunate to number among its students those who understand homecoming to be a unique opportunity to \Discover Union.\ Preparations for the 59th Homecoming began well before the class of 1981 left the College Grounds. Several dedicated students devoted time and energy during the spring and summer months to assure the tremendous success of the weekend. An able testimony to the spirit of the calss of 1985 was their surprising turnout as plans became finalized and the countdown began during the early weeks of the school year. Among these students are: Marabeth Soltis (Homecoming Chairperson), Cheryl Aylesworth, Bob Beard, Janet Blum, Jean Bradley, Sharon Bran, Bob Brewster, Claire Burchill, Jim Carroll, Matt Cohen, Carla Cogan, Laurie Corkum, Kelly Dennin, Beth Donaghue, Ira Dworkin, Dave Fitzgerald, Mike Fox, Pete Frank, Cathy Good, Sue Gray, Lynne Greenberg, Dave Greenway, Darcy Ham- merman, Greg Hedman, EHen Holtzman, Cathleen Howard, Maria Kansas, Anne Keetz, Mark Klaiman, Larry Koved, Steve Larson, Aimee Levine, Tim Mara, John Mracek, Gail Mund, Dave Owens, Dave Patalita, Ed Pletman, Nancy Raisman, Allyson Ramsey, Kip Rheinbold, Larry Rifkin, Holly Rozelle, Cathy Rusik, Ron Scaccia, Mary Ann Sciortino, Larry Shapiro, Shelly Stroud, Kathy Tessier, Ann Weber, Pete Wool, and Linda Ziman. Important events during the three-day festival of Union include Saturday morning's Homecoming Parade throughout and around the Union College Grounds and the ...,-homecoming football classic; this year's edition pitting Union's undefeated Dutchmen against the highly touted Mules of Colby College. After relaxing with the Union Co1lege Jazz Ensemble at the President's post-game reception, one can look forward to a wealth of activity during the evening hours Saturday. Union's five men's and women's choral groups take the stage at Memorial Chapel to present their annual homecoming concert. This year's group will once again entreat all alumni and friends to join in a resounding salute to the alma mater to close the concert. Shortly thereafter Dr. Paul V. Turner '62 will present the Walter C. Baker lecture \Nott Ramee, and Jefferson: A New Odell at Coffeehouse Carolyn Odell will be retur- ning to the Union College Coffeehouse once again this Friday night in the Cabaret Room. As in the past 1 she is sure to delight the audience with her warm and expressive voice, instrumental skiU, humor, and unique style. Accompanying herself on guitar and banjo, she combines the elements of folk, blues, ragtime, and jazz into a distinctive blend of traditional and contemporary music. The performance begins at 9:30 p.m. and admission is one dollar. Free coffee, cider, and donuts will be served. Interpretation\ in the chapel. Apart from the traditioNal Fraternity and Sorority parties and frequent forays to the Rathskellar, this year's homecoming marks the initiati0n of a new tradition at the college; Saturday night's Harvest Moon Dance at the Alumni Gym. For three days pretend that you never heard of the Senior Thesis, Organic Chemistry Lab, Renaissance Literature, and the like and re-discover at least part of the reason y0u are at Union College. HomecomiRg 1981. Edie Berkowitz, Director of Alumni Atta1rs Gl,ee Clubs Give Concert By CATHY A VERSA and TIM MCNERNEY The Men's and Women's Glee Clubs will be presenting their annual Homecoming Concert this Saturday, October 10, at 7:30 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel. This will be the group's first formal concert of the season under the direction of F'. John Adams, who is replacing Hugh Allen Wilson while he is on sabbatical. The selections of the Women's Glee Club include 16th century madrigals by Melchior Schaerer, Orazio Vecchi, and by Thomas Weelkes, the better known of the three. The women will also perform a psalm by Franz Shubert and Johannes Brahms' folk song, \In Stiller Nacht.\ The Men's Glee Club will be singing a wid spectrum of music, from the powerful \Brothers Sing On,\ considered by many to be the \national anthem\ of men's glee clubs, to Vottoria's beautiful piece, \0 Vos Omnes,\ as well as another madrigal by Thomas Weelkes, a spiritual by John W. Work, and the well known Scottish folk song, \Loch Lomond,\ of \You'll take the high road and I'll take the low road\ fame. The combined choruses will conclude the concert with the choral dances from \Gloriana which Benjamin Britten composed for the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II, and the traditional medley of Union College songs, including, of course, the Alma Mater. Both groups have a very exciting year ahead of them, as the women have planned a concert exchange with the Worchester Polytechnic Institute Men's Glee Club. Union's men, who have a similar exchange scheduled, will be traveling to Wellesley in November, while the Wellesley women will be visiting Union in the spring. In the winter, both glee clubs will be joining forces with several other choirs, and a professional orchestra and soloists to perform the Verdi \Requiem\ also in Worchester, Mass. The Men's and Women's Glee Clubs are always in need of new members as old members graduate, take four courses, et cetera. Rehearsals are on Mondays from 6:15-8:00 and Thursdays from 8:15-10:00 for the men, and on Mondays from 8:15-10:00 and Thursdays from 6:15-8:00 for the women. Interested? More information is available in the Arts Depart- ment office. And DONT FORGET THE CONCERT this Satmday at 7:30 p.m.; admission is free. Can you think of a better way to capture the Homecoming '81 spirit? Dance Extension Performs The Dance Club is sponsoring a performance by the \Dance Extension,\ a student run group from Brown University. The performance will take place this Saturday, October 10, at 4:30 in Memorial Chapel. The dancers, like their Union counterparts, take classes in both modern dance and ballet M Brown. However, in addition to classes, the dancers also work together for hours afterwards practicing the dances which are part of their repertoire. The three dances which will be part of this Saturday's performance are: Hoe Down, Trio, and Elephantes Exotiques. Hoe Down, as its name implies, is a country square dance per- formed to music by the David Bromberg Band. Trio will be performed to music by Vivaldi, and Elephantes Exotiques is accompanied by a tuba quartet. This afternoon of dam·e promises to be one of great variety and entertainment. So uu nul forget: Saturday, October 10, 4:30p.m., Memorial Chapel, Free Admission. Homecoming Dance This year's Homecomint.:. besides all of last year's events will include a Har\'P!'t :'\locn Dance. The Han·cs• :'\ltlOil Dance will takl' place Pn Saturday, Oetober 10, al 9:30 p.m. in Alumni Gym and will end at 1:00 a.m. Sunday mor- ning. The dance is semiformal and will have big band music supplied by the Union Jazz Ensemble and fillers by WRUC. There will be a cash bar as well as apple cider. Welcom~ Dock Alums During the dance there will be a Jack-o-Lantern contest with prizes awarded. There will also be a break at 10:30 p.m. to go to Library Field to see the firewor. Hope to see you at Alumni Gym and the rest of the Homecoming events. <ll c Ill ....., >- .0 0 0 .s:::. 0.

Page 10 1'rid4y,Oaow 9 8:30 •m to 4:30J>'!' 4:30pm to 6:30pm 6:30pm 8:00pm 7:00·pm 9:00pm 11:00 pm 8:00pm 8:30pm to 10:30 pm 9:30pm to 12:00 midnight OPEN CLASSES Alumni, parents and fnends are·1nv1ted 'o attend classes, JOin Union's students 1n lectures and·sem1nars Class schedules lire available 1n Lamont House OPEN HOCKEY TEAM·PRACTICE Achtii93·Rink Come and watch the Dutchmen practoce' ANNUAL FUND CLASS AGENT'S DINNER Paramount Lounge Cocktools 6 30 pm - Dtnner 7 30 pin CONCERT Don Mclean and ·Livingston Taylor Memoroal Chapel Alum no may purchase hckets>~n·the Alumno Olfoce up to s·oo pm Sponsored by the Student Concert Gommottee MOVIE \PRIVATE BENJAMIN\ Room 0·16, Socoal Scoences·Buoldong Tockets are $1 50 and may be.purchased.al the door. Sponsored by Student Folm Commo!tee VARSIT¥ SOCCER ve. ALUMNI New Athlet1c F1eld ICE SKATING- Acholles Ronk Alumno & Fam1hes- No·Charge Rentals ava1lable at the Ronk COFFEEHOUSE Cabaret Room, 1st Floor, CarneaieHa\1 Folk music provided by Carolyn Odell Donato on $,1 00 - ~roe assortod·coftoe and donuts. lnsh coflee avaotable Sponsored by Student Coftoehouse Saturdlly,Octobef 10 8:00am lo 10:00 am 9:00am lo 10:00 am 9:00am lo 10:00 am 9:30am 9:30am & 10:30 am · 10:00 em to 6:00pm 10:30 am 10:30 am CLASS AGENT'i >,~Ft\'\ ·~• Dutch Hollow Pub. Garneg1e Hall NATIONAL ESTATE AFFAIRS COMMITTEE MEETING Banquet Room. Carneg1e Hall ReUNION '82 CLASS COMMITTEE MEETING Conference Room .. ,_ .. , 2nd floor. Carnegoe Hall BREAKFAST WITH THE DUTCHMAN FOOTBALL TEAM Joon head football coach Joe Worth.and the 19!11 Squad \Dutch Treat\ on West College Don:ng Room \A UNION OF PEOPLE\ Room 115, Socoal Scoences Buoldong Unoon's award winning film captures the essence of academic and soc1alllfe on campus as seen 1hrough the eyes of students and faculty WGV'S \GREAT NORTHEAST AMBASSADOR\ You're all on voted to stop by WGY's 30-foot Radio Station on Wheels broadcastong Homecomong festivities love froni the campus. FIELD HOCKEY vo. ALUMNAE New Mhletoc Field ACADEMIC PRESENTATIONS/RECEPTIONS The following Faculties have arranged programs, tours. discussions, etc. Learn \what's new\ in your major·and·on other areas of interest to you Meet faculty, students and alumni I. WALTER C. BAKER FACUL TV OF THE HUMANITIES ARTS, CLASSICS, ENGLISH. 'MODERN LANGUAGES PHILOSOPHY ' CJONOORDIENSlS, October 8, 1981 U:OO am 11:00 am H:JO am 11:30 am·to 3:30pm 11:30 a\' 11:30 am 12:00 noor> 1:00pm 1:00pm 1:15 pin 1:30pm 4:00pm 4:00pm to 5:00pm 4:30pm to 5:30pm Faculty Lounge (2nd floor). Humarutoes ·Buoldong \1. FACULTY OF THE SOCIAL SCIENCES ECONOMICS. INSTITUTE OF ADMINISTRAT'ION &. MANAGEMENT. POLITICAL SCIENCE, SOCIOLOGY \Soc1a1 Sc1entosts' Perspect1ve on tile forst year of the ·Reagan Adm~n•stratoon\- Strauss Lounge, Carnegoe Hall HtSJORY (10 OQ am) \'New Opportunttools on a New Natoon The· Development of· New York After the Revolu!IOn\ -<Molano· lounge (2nd floor). Hale House Ill. FACULTY OF THE SCIENCSS BIOLOGICAl SCIENCES Room S301 (Genetics Lab), Scoence & Engoneerong Center CHEMISTRY Room Nt16, Scoence & EngmeenngCenter MATHEMATICS Room 200. Salley Hall PHYSICS Room Nt14. Sc1ence & Engoneermg.Center PSY,CHOLOGY Room 213, Psychology Buofdong IV. FACULTY OF ENGINEERING & A~PLIED SCIENCE COMPUTER SCIENCE Computer Center. Steonmetz Hall CIVIL ENGINEERING Room 106, Butterfoelc! Hall ·ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING Computer Center. Steonmetz Hall MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Room N205 (·lab), Scoence & Engtneerong Center RUGBY T·EAM vs. VASSAR\ Ale•ander 'Field VOLLEv.BALL vo. ·RUSSEI.L ~\'GE Memoroal Fieldhouse • ·NYC ALUMNI CLUB TAil:GAT<E •PARTY Between Mclean House and Wells House ·LUNCH Look for the refreshment tent· on Alexander Foeld .. Beverages, hot dogs & hambur~ers. Sponsored ·by Union's Lacrosse Team. DELLS ·CONCERT by PETER K. SMITH 70 Memorial Chapel TERRACE COUNCIL ,LUNCHEON HOMECOMING PARADE~ ,;DISCOVER UNI\ON\ :Follow the fun - our 2nd Annual Homecomong: Parade- floats bands, clowns, antique cars, etc. ' WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY vs. TRINI:rY & WILLIAMS MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY vs. TRINity Finosh lone near,~xander Field track, approxomately 1 ·20 pm DEDICATION OF NEW ATHLEfiC'FfELD FOOTBALL va.!LBY 'New. W;hfetic Fi ·Haft Tl'tne - Pres dent JohnS. 'Morns will -present the Stephen P Brown Memoroal Trophy and Float Awards. RUGBY B liE AM va. ALUMNI Alexander Field Alumno interested on ploy•ng please call Tom Conway '82 393- 3136 as soon as possible. PRESIDENT'S RECEPTION Immediately following_ the foot_ball·game everyone'\ mv•ted to 10m Dr. & Mrs. Morros on beautiful Jackson's Garden (or Alumno Gym of the weather is inclement). t.lliJsoc by Umtm's JAZZ ENSEMBLE. DANCE PERFORMANCE The Dance Extension from Bronx University Memorlai;C:hapel· UTE AFTERNOON &<EVENING 5:00pm.,. 6:30.pm Sponaored by Student Dance Club. FRATERNITY a SORORITY HOMECOMING PARTIES COLUMBUS'S SAILING SUPPER- Dutch Hollow Pub. Carnegie Hall 7:00pm 9:00pm 11:00pm 7:30.pm 8:15pm 7:00 pm·& 9:00pm Scrumptious Italian Buffet Adults $7.00, Under 12 $3.50 Cash Bar avaolable RESERVt.TIONS: Du13to limited saatlng prepaod reseo:vatoons must be received by·OCTOBER 1st. Please complete the form below. Tickets may be pocked up at registration. MOVIE ':PRIVATE BENJAMIN\ Room 016, Social Sciences Building Tickets are $1.50 at the door. MEN'S & WOMEN'S GLEE CLUB CONCERT Memoria! Chapel Acting Director- F .. John Adams followed by _ WALTER C. BAKER LECTURE • Memorial Chapel Dr. Paul V. Turner '6~ presents \Noll Ramee & Jefferson: A New Interpretation\. ALUMNI'-STUDENT·CABARET- Carnegie Haft Relax and enjoy. \The Show\ at Union's unique night club. Reserved seats. Tickets are·$1.50 and may be purchased by Alumni at the Alumni Office by Saturday 5:00pm. Sponsored by Student Cabar&t. FREE HOMECOMI~ MEMEN'TO TO ALL WHO REGI$TER AT THE ALUMNI OFFiCE IN /~ : ~ LAMONT HOUSEl : .. :~~J'Ij • , • .,. .,1' · .. ,.-;_,.' ''•o~~ ¥c :~ ·, f' REGISTRATION !if' Friday: 9:00am to 6:00pm f - Saturday: 9:00 am to 6:00 pm A\LUMNI GFFICE TELEPHONE 518-370'6168 • \\ 9:30pm lo 1:00am 10;30 pm HARVEST MOON DANC.E - To be ·held<.ln Alumni Gym. Music-by Union's Jazz· Ensemble & WRUC. Cash Bar. JACK· O.LANTERN CONTEST ~·bring yourentry·lo the (iym from B;pm -9:JO.p:m. Winners announced at,l1:'00pm. Prlzes.wifl be awarded. GALA FIREWORKS'DISPLAY· •L:bral'{ Foeld 8und1Jy,Ottobef II 9:00 am to HOMEGOING B!!UNE:H- Dutch Hollow Pub ·12:00 noon All you can eat buffet. Adults $3.75. Under 1.2 $2.00. 10:00 am & \AUNIOII! OF PEOPLE\ . - 10:30 am ~o·om 016, Social Scleng,es Building 11:00 am. to 1:00pm l1:oo am to 1:15pm 7:00pm 9:00pm 11:00 pm J.S.O. HILlEL BAGE;LS & LOX <BRUNCH in Kosher Kitchen (West College) LAKE GEORGE CRUIS£ Join us on Christopher's 4th Ship, the Mohocan, tor a t9ur ol ·L~ke George and Paradise Bay. Departure from Steel Pi'IC, Lake George Village, at 1 1;00 am sharp! R!lduced prices for prepaid: reservations received by October 1st. (-Adylts $5:50. ages3·1 1i $3.00, under 3 Free).'Piease complete lhe form below. Tickets .and directions may be picked up at Registration. MOVIE \PRIVATE BENJAMIN\ Room 016, Social Sciences Building Tickets. are $1.50 at the doer. 6enml atajo~aliort ADMISSIONS · The Admissions Office will be open.all day Friday and on INTERVIEWS Saturday from 9:00 am to Noon specifically. tor interviews with a)umni sons and·daughlers. Ploase·contact the Admissions CAMPUS BOOKSTORE DUTCH HOLLOW PUB . HALE HOUSE & WEST COLLEGE DINING,ROOMS PARKING ·Office tor an-appointment at feast two weeks in advance. • (Not! Memorjal, lower level) ' Friday: 8:45 am to 4:45 pm Saturday: 11:00 am Ia 4;00 pm FRIDAY, OCTOBEA9 LUNCH: .11:30-am to 1:30pm SNACKS: 1:30pm to 4:30pm SAT[JRDAY, OCTOBER1tl LUNCH: 11:30.am to 2:30·pm COlUMBUS'S·SAILING SUPPER: 5:00, 6:30 (see reservation form below) ' SUNDAY, OCTOBER 11 HOMEGOING BRUNCH: 9:00am to 12:00noon FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9 DINNER: 5:00pm to 6:30 pm Due to limited parking on campus, please use lot on corner of Seward Place and Nott Street and the lot behind the Fieldhouse Roadways on. campus are classified as Fire Lanes and must be, . kept clear. . ' ·ACCOMMODATIONS If you desire a list of area motels ora list of students and whom you may contact for child-care during·the weekend CHILO CARE please contact the Alumni Office In advance. DON'T FORGET ReUNION WEEKEND 1982 ·June 11., 12, 13 w -·· Nam StreE City_

OONOOEDIENSIS~ Octobe.r 8, 1981 . Page 11 A Continuing Tradition of Excellence Founded in 1877 Welcome Home Alumni! Please detatch and make checks payable to·: CONCORDlENS.IS Box.2577 Union College Schenectady, New York 12308 ---·-····-·······-···· $12.00for 1981-82 subscription Name __________ _ Street---------____...;.- City _____ State . ..,....___Zip. __ HOMECOMING '81 lhe Pub will be dosed . fhi$ Friday from 4\9 p.m. . We'will.also be dosed · this Satu rda.y from. 2:30- . 8: 3'0 p.m. for the . Co .I um bus Sa i I in g · .Supper. We wi II be open next , Saturday for our all new · ''Rib and Reef\ from 5-8 p.m. Please make· reser- . vatiqns by calling the Pub at 370-6051 between 2 and 4 p.m. . 0 .. UNION COLLEGE PUB RESTAURANT u T c 5CHENE.CTADY,IIJV. 12.308 I-1·0LLOW Prim.e Rib of Beef au ius 7. 95 Broiled Crab Legs with clarified butter 7.95 Rib and Reef Combination 7. 95 Veal ala Pub 7.95 Broiled Scallops 7.95 New York Sirloin Steak with golden· onion rings 7.95 · ..., Sauteed Breasts of Chicken on bed ' of rice 6.95 HOMECOMING SP€CIAL OPEN SATURDAY 11:00 am TILL 4:00 pm Visit Us During Homecoming

Page 12 OONOOR.DIENSIS, October 8; 1981 Fast .... Free Delivery ·Call us! 372·44.41 127 Nott Terrace Hours 4:30 - 1 00 Sun - Thurs. 4 30- 2:00 Fn. & Sat All Pizzas Include Our Special Blend of Sauce and Real Cheese Domino's Deluxe 5 ttems for the pnce of 4 Pepperom. Mushrooms, Omons. Green Peppers and Sausage 12\ Deluxe 6.84 16'. Deluxe 10.19 The Vegi 5 tlems for the pnce of 4 Mushrooms. Olives. Onions, Green Peppers and Double Cheese 12\ Vegi 6.84 16\ Vegt 10.19 Additional Items Pepperoni. Mushrooms. Ham, Onions, Anchovtes. Green Peppers. Olives. Sausage, Ground Beef. Hot Peppers. Ool:lble Cheese, Extra Thick Crust 12\ pizza item .75 16\ pizza item 1.15 Prices do not include applicable sales tax. We use only 100% real dairy cheese. ~>1981 Oomrno s P1zza lnr At Domino's Pi-zza we promise a hot, nutritious meal delivered .in3H minutes or less. Your ptzza is made with 100% real dairy cheese, our own special sauce., ,and your choice of items. Then we deliver .it fast-at no extra charge. Give us a caiLwe deli~ter' You can help us serve you and others faster if you follow these stmple steps when ordertng your pizza. 1 . Know what you want before mdenng (size of. ptzza. qu~ntity, what you want on it. any dnnks). 2. Know the phone -num- ber and address of the res~denoe from which you are calltng. 3. When plactngan order. let us know if you ha11e large denomination bills. 4. Remain by the phone after ordering. We may call back to confirm the order. 5. T1:1rn on your porch light 6. Price that is quoted on the phoAe includes sales tax but does not include the subtraction of the coupon. The driver will subtract it when the delivery is made: 7. Have your c<>upon and ·money with you when the driver arrives. Thanks for following these directions. Our drivers carry less than $1•0.00. Limited delivery area. r···--··-·······--·--··· .. I I I I I I I F·e·· e Free Pepperoni with any. 1 . 1· · 12\ small pizza. . 1 :I Pe pperonl! ~;~r~~uf~F, ~~~f'zza. I I - I 1 11 . .. . Fast, Fr.ee Delivery 1 1 a 127 Nott Terrace 1 1 • Phone: 372-4441 1 1 ·m · , 547ot33o4 1 .I . · ·· : · . I I I -L ••••.••• • ••••• ••••••II!II••J .r-·-:--·-·····••• •---·-··-·-.. I I I $1.00 oH any pizza. ~ 1 One coupon per pizza. I I Expires: 11/15/81 I I Fast, Free Delivery I 127 Nott Terrace 1 I Phofle:·372-4441 I I I 154 7ot3304 I I I I I I I I I I I .L .......................... J A By: La£ discu Airbo Syste Arabi propc belie1 frien< State: cessf1 sense gove1 had 1 stabi sopt equi1 State If 1 AWA sourc WDul1 befor acce: Ame1

Page 12 OONCORDIENSIS, October 8, 1981 Fast .... Free De·livery Call us! 372-4441 1 27 Nott Terrace Hours 4 30 · 1 00 Sun · Thurs 4 30 · 2 00 Fr1 & Sat All Pizzas Include Our Special Blend of Sauce and Real Cheese Domino's Deluxe 5 1tems for the pnce of 4 Pepperoni. Mushrooms. On1ons. Green Peppers and Sausage 12 Oelux.e 6.84 16 Oelux.e 10.19 The Vegi 5 1tems for the pnce of 4 Mushrooms. Ol1ves. On1ons. Green Peppers and Double Cheese 12· Veg1 6.84 16 .. Veg1 10.19 Additional Items Pepperoni. Mushrooms. Ham On1ons. Anchov1es. Green Peppers. Ol1ves. Sausage. Ground Beef Hot Peppers. Double Cheese. Extra Th1ck Crust 12\ PIZZa 1tem .75 16\ PIZZa 1tem 1.15 Pnces do not mel ude applicable sales tax. We use only100% real dairy cheese. At Dommo's P1zza we promtse a hot. nutr1t1ous meal delivered m 30 mmutes or less. Your piZZa IS made With 100% real da1 ry cheese. our own spectal sauce, and your cho1ce of 1tems Then we del1ver 1t fast-at no extra charge. G1ve us a call. .. we delwer 1 You can help us serve you and others faster 1f you follow these Simple steps when ordenng your p1zza 1 Know what you want before ordenng (stze of p1zza quant1ty, what you want on 1t any dnnks). 2. Know the phone num- ber and address of the res1dence from wh1ch you are callmg. 3. When plac1ng an order. let us know 1f you have large denom1nat1on bills. 4. Remam by the phone after ordenng. We may call back to conf1rm the order 5. Turn on your porch light. 6. Pnce that IS quoted on the phone 1ncludes sales tax btJt does not mclude the subtract1on of the coupon. The driver will subtract 1t when the del1very IS made: 7. Have your coupon and money w1th you when the dnver arnves. Thanks for following these directions. Our dnvers carry less than$ 10.00. L1m1ted del1very area. r•·• .. - .. ·-···-· .................... ., I I I I I . . I I Fre·e Free Pepperom With anyg 1 . .· 12\ small p1zza. 1 •Peppe·ron•·' on.:: coupon perptzza. I 1 • E_xplres:11/15/81 1 I I 1 Fast, Free Delivery 1 1 127 Nott Terrace 1 1 Phone: 372-4441 1 1 15470/3304 1 I I II I I I L • ···-········-· ........ - ......... J r ·····- ... - --·-.-. --- ........... ., I I I $1.00 off any pizza. I ; One coupon per pizza. I I Expires: 11/15/81 I ~ Fast, free Delivery I 1 127 Nott Terrace I I Phone: 372-4441 I I 15470!3304 I I I I I I I I I I I L-~---·········-······-J r-·--------------------, I I 1 F Ext On any pizza. 1 1 ree ra One coupon per p1zza. 1 I Thick Expires: 11/15/81 I Ill c ru.st Fast, Free Delivery II 127 Nott Terrace 1 Phone: 372-4441 1 I 15470/3304 1 ! II ! I I I I L--·····-- ........ ----IIIIJI·• .... .. J onel are TJ choc carr: corn pret fair: that pies stud diss .pas cmr . stUlJ Uni1 nan .Sprl Hen Cha Mes Ben Jan to€ can' mat the pos~ and p:la3 tour int had nu befc g001 som A By La disct Airb~ SystE Arab .; prop, I 1.1 belie frien StatE ii cessJ sens• f'.' gove f' had . ' I' j stab sopl r:l equi 1/ StatE ! ' If II ,, AWl sour woul befo acce Arne

----~----------~--------------------·O~~O~N~O~O~R~D~IE~N~SIS_,_o_c_t_o_be_r~~-1_9_8_1 ______________________________ ~P~a~g~e~1=a LeHers to the Editor are welcomed· either in response to an issue appearing in Concordy, or on a topic of interest to the writer ·and Union College. The deadline is 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday preceding publication Letters ~ Editorials Commentar_r:· Dutchman Euphoria By DOUG SILVERSTEIN \I don't want much I just want more; Ask what I want and I will sing, I want everything, everything.\ -\A Star Is Born\ On the day of October 3, 1981, two events occurred w:hicb rekindled my belief in a superior b~ing. And what else, they occurred almost simultaneously. These events were the culmination of a day that Union students will always remember for more than the reason than the pessibility they may have caused an Albany man to seek psychoanalysis. It was Billy Huttner's three yard run into the Albany end zone followed by the appearance of a .prophetic sun on the western front that caused the campus to literally shake for an entire minute. This was Union Colleg.e, which failed in their effort to win more than one game in 1980. But somehow, the Dutchmen retained an irresistible aura even during last year's catastrophe that somehow characterized Union sports in general; deep inheart, but deep in losses. On the brink of a winning season how could we refuse the Dutchmen? They are 2-0-1 but more important, perhaps this campus can set aside its idiosynchratic social biases and Hobbesian fears for the sake of ur.ity behind the team we have long since laughed at. It's well known what a sports team can do to this campus, but more important, what this campus can do to a team. The mention of Ned Harkness quickly reminds us of this. What we have here is not a call to arms, but a call to your inner emotion, school spirit (what's that?) and support. For the next week or so about fifth athletes will be walking around campus with a glistening glow hovering over their burly and victorious exteriors, largely a result of Union's ranking as ninth in the nation. Have no fear, that's just a football player who has found reason to sleep a little more on Friday nights and fulfill his other dreams on Saturday af- ternoon. What is so incredible about the Dutchmen's rise to com- petitiveness is the players' care and concern for their own pride. ·Imagine veterans George Oberstadt, Mike Dana, Mark Palomba, Vruce Melina, Tom Plungis, Mike Jenkins, Dana Johnston, Walt Fredericks, and countless others, who have long seen the football team as something they might not want to put on their resume. Men, stand proud, for you deserve it. And so does your coach. Joe Wirth can bask in the reality that his players like him and believe in him, a rarity in sports today. After the victory on Saturday, Wirth walked into the lockerroom where all the players were celebrating. There was an instant silence as Wirth approached the group. The players then handed him the game ball and started a chant ot \Speech speech.\ After a brief moment of silence, the coach turned to his players and said, \I love you bastards.\ That says it all. For some students this year's success and a new athletic surface may seem trivial. But for the rest of us, the victorious Dutchmen give us reason to he proud to be a part of Union College. Football success cannot cure the evil of cancer but it can abate, even for ~ moment, the social disease that separates entities of this campus. If it does that alone then Coach Wirth and the entir~ football team can put one more notch in the victory column . .Middle East: Instability By ALAN BINKOW (Tuesday, October 6) President Anwar Sadat of Egypt was shot and killed this morning. While he will never be remembered as a humanitarian, he was a brilliant statesman, international politician, peacemaker, and stabilizing influence in the Middle East. He will be sorely missed. Governments all over the world are, at the time of this writing, gathering details and forming official and unofficial reactions. Several questions are on everybody's mind: Who is responsible for the assassination? Who is in control in Egypt, and who is likely to take control? Most importantly, what will happen to the precarious peace in the Middle East? 1) Who is responsible? All of the international analysts are hoping that some internal religious group is responsible. All of the evidence, however, points to a plan masterminded by Colonel Qadaffi of Libya, and carried out by one of the many terrorist groups he supports. Qaddafi has highly strained relations with Egypt, and it is likely that, if indeed he did instigate the assassination, relations would be further strained; maybe even to the point of war. 2) Who controls? At this point, the vice president and his sup- portio~ staff ~re i.n ~ontrol; elections will be held within 90 days. The vtce prestdent lS an ardent supporter of Sadat's policies· I would bet on his gaining the presidency. But others will make bids most likely the foreign minister and the oppressed religiowi leaders. In the ensuing weeks, great pressures will come to bear on Egypt: from the Russians, who Sadat threw out in the early seventies, and who would like to return; from Israel and the United States, who want to preserve the Camp David Accords; and from the rest of the Arab world, who have ostracized Sadat and Egypt since Camp David, It remains to be seen bow these pressures will affect the election~ and influence whoever is in power after it. AWACS Sale Disturbing 3) How does this affect the peace process? Israel has said it will ~ait and.see; the final Sinai pull?ack i~ scheduled for April. People m Washmgton have _been \saymg wtthout saying\ that we are about to lose Egypt as an ally and we'd better sell the AWACs to Saudi. Arabia to getthem instead. But according to Sen. Carl Levin (D-Mich.), the AWACs debate has been stalled until Egypt is at least stabilized a little. Where the vote will go after this is as good a question as where it would bave gone if things remained as they had been. Nobody really knows what will happen in the Middle East. Violence and assassination have rarely led to anything good. The delicate balance in the Middle East will no doubt be upset, but only time will show what will topple and what will emerge strong. By DANIEL ROSENFIELD Last spring, in my colwnn, I discussed the dangers of selling Airborn Warning and Control Systems (AWACS) to Saudia Arabia. I was against the proposed sale because I did not believe that one could buy friends; certainly the United States has never been suc- cessful. Further, it did not make sense to attempt to woo the government of a country that had never been noted for its stability with the most sopllisiticated military equipment that the United States could build. If the Saudis were to ,get the A.W ACS, I felt, as did certain sources in Washlngton, that it WDuld only be a matter of time befor~ the Russians would gain access to the · secrets of- the American AWACS system. . Stability can only be as strong as the government. The internal confusion that exists in Saudia Arabia makes an ideal setting for espionage. To counter this threat, the negotiators for the United States claimed that the planes would be sold withou~. .certain pieces of the most sensitive equipment and that U.S. crews would man and maintain the planes for at least two years. In this way the U.S. would retain some control over the use of the planes, and insure the security of the AWACS defense .system. · As I write this article I am watching the news broadcasts of the assassination of the president of Egypt, 1 Anwar Sadat. Once again, the stability of the Middle East is in jeopardy, as has just been pointed out on Channel 6 by Steven Burke, .Professor of History, Union College, who is an expert in Middle East af- fairs. To make matters worse, not only will Saudia Arabia accept no conditions on the sale of the planes but they will be sold completely intact-it has now been announced that to remove any equipment from the plane, the entire computer system will have to be redesigned. TJtis means that Saudia Arabia will get the most sophisticated AWACS in existence and the U.S. will have no control on . their~ use of security. What does this mean? I think it means that if the U.S. goes through with the sale that we will be giving our most sophisiticated technology to the Russians. Under the best conditions, technology is dif- ficult to protect. I do not think that. this situation has been helped any by the events of late. Concordierisis invites students to respond to commentaries and editorials. Any responsible viewpoint ' will be presented and we welcome the opportunity to do so. The Editors.

OONCORDIENSIS, October 8, 1981 Page 1a --------------------------------------·------------ ---------------------------------~--~------~--- COlllllleQtary llf.o'wev·f:. ~.r. · : . · · · : · lwlltntbi made 1lp Of ••ot- . members. We actively terJCOllraJ~e anyone who is in\ help us out and be a the· .committee. W.1t,~'r'ITJI'\ntt is treated the same receives the same lprivileges. Evecyane ~ts to ,on tbe available acts. No one is turned away and all ideas are heard. The committee is set up to choose entertainment f{}r the · campus, namely music and-or comedy eoncerts. This sounds pretty straight forward and fairly simple. It wc:mld be except that it is nearly impossible to ·Ttt~ · ipomt ·. o{: Uus 'is to let evety<Jne know that we pr{)bably take the most abuse of all campus activities, but we keep- nn trying. We know we can't please. yutt an. Try to understand that we are made up as representatives of the campus and want the be.st concerts available as mncll cr m-ore so than you do. If ybu have _ any suggestions on how you think we can please more of the campus, please let us lroow. We don't want to try and guess. We are here doing the best possible,· give us a break <lnce in a while. Matt Goben~ Val Lenes Co~hairsConcertComrn. please two thousand college .-----------..1 students without someone being dissatisfied. When we boost ~of . past · committee ac• complishments, people are stunned. Who can believe that Uni()n College ever sponsored name acts lil~e; Bruce . Springsteent Billy Joel,. Jimi Hendrix~ Pure Prairie League, Charlie Daniels, Lnggins and Messina, J.oe Jacksont Karla Benoff, and most recently, James Taylor? If we were able to get these people then why etm't it continue?.The fact of the matter is that it can, based on the availabilities. It isn't possible for us t(} mde a call and say .we want someone tu play for us, unless there is a· taur. When Springsteen played in the Chapel~ \BI)rn to Rurf' hadn't happened yet, there was · no- Boss. Billy Joel was here before \The Stranger\. The list goes on. Once in a . while ' someone like James Taylor Letters to the Editor are welcomed either in response to an issue appearing in Concordy, or on a topic of interest to the writer and Union College. The deadline is 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday preceding publication Letters Editorials Commentar.r: Dutchman Euphoria By DOUG SILVERSTEIN \l don't wsnt much I just want more; Ask what I want and I will sing, I want everything, everything.\ -\A Star Is Born\ On the day of October 3, 1981, two events occurred which rekindled my belief in a superior b~ing. And what else, they occurred almost simultaneously. These events were the culmination of a day that Union students will always remember for more than the reason than the possibility they may have caused an Albany man to seek psychoanalysis. It was Billy Huttner's three yard run into the Albany end zone .followed by the appearance of a prophetic sun on the western front that caused the campus to literally shake for an entire minute. This was Union College, which failed in their effort to win more than one game in 1980. But somehow, the Dutchmen retained an irresistible aura even during last year's catastrophe that somehow characterized Union sports in general; deep in heart, but deep in losses. On the brink of a winning season how could we refuse the Dutchmen? They are 2-0-1 but more important, perhaps this campus can set aside its idiosynchratic social biases and Hobbesian fears for the sake of ur.ity behind the team we have long since laughed at. It's well known what a sports team can do to this campus, but more important, what this campus can do to a team. The mention of Ned Harkness quickly reminds us of this. What we have here is not a call to arms, but a call to your inner emotion, school spirit (what's that?) and support. For the next week or so about fifth athletes will be walking around campus with a glistening glow hovering over their burly and victorious exteriors, largely a result of Union's ranking as ninth in the nation. Have no fear, that's just a football player who has found reason to sleep a little more on Friday nights and fulfill his other dreams on Saturday af- ternoon. What is so incredible about the Dutchmen's rise to com- petitiveness is the players' care and concern for their own pride. ·Imagine veterans Georg.e Oberstadt, Mike Dana, Mark Palomba, Vruce Melina, Tom Plungis, Mike Jenkins, Dana Johnston, Walt Fredericks, and countless others, who have long seen the footbail team as something they migllt not want to put on their resume. Men, stand proud, for you deserve it. And so does your coach. Joe Wirth can bask in the reality that his players like him and beHeve in him, a rarity in sports today. After the victory on Saturday, Wirth walked into the lockerroom where all the players were celebrating. There was an instant silence as Wirth ~~M~~ fue gro~. The players then handed him the game ball and started a chant ot \Speech speech.\ After a brief moment of silence, the coach turned to his players and said, \I love you bastards.\ That says it all. For some students this year's success and a new athletic surface may seem trivial. But for the rest of us, the victorious Dutchmen give us reason to be proud to be a part of Union College. Football success cann?t cure the evil of cancer, but 1t can abate, even for a moment, the social disease that separates entities of this campus. If it does that alone, then Coach Wirth and the entire football team can put one more notch in the victory column . Middle East: Instability By ALAN BINKOW (Tuesday, October 6) President Anwar Sadat of Egypt was shot and killed this morning. While he will never be remembered as a humanitarian, he was a brilliant statesman, international politician, peacemaker, and stabilizing influence in the Middle East. He will be sorely missed. Governments all over the world are, at the time of this writing, gathering details and forming official and unofficial reactions. Several questions are on everybody's mind: Who is responsible for the assassination? Who is in control in Egypt, and who is likely to take control? Most importantly, what will happen to the precarious peace in the Middle East? 1) Who is responsible? All of the international analysts are hoping that some internal religious group is responsible. All of the evidence, however, points to a plan masterminded by Colonel Qadaffi of Libya, and carried out by one of the many terrorist groups he supports. Qaddafi has highly strained relations with Egypt, and it is likely that, if indeed he did instigate the assassination, relations would be further strained; maybe even to the point of war. 2) Who controls? At this point, the vice president and his sup- porting staff are in control; elections will be held within 90 days. The vice president is an ardent supporter of Sadat's policies; I would bet on his gaining the presidency. But others will make bids, most likely the foreign minister and the oppressed religious leaders. In the ensuing weeks, great pressures will come to bear on Egypt: from the Russians, who Sadat threw out in the early seventies, and who would like to return; from Israel and the United States, who want to preserve fue Camp David Accords; and from the rest of the Arab world, who have ostracized Sadat and Egypt since Camp David. It remains to be seen how these pressures will affect the election, and influence whoever is in power after it. AWACS Sale Disturbing 3) How does this affect the peace process? Israel has said it will wait and see; the final Sinai pullback is scheduled for April. People in Washington have been \saying without saying\ that we are about to lose Egypt as an ally and we'd better sell the A WACs to Saudi Arabia to get them instead. But according to Sen. Carl Levin (D-Mich.), the A WACs debate has been stalled until Egypt is at least stabilized a little. Where the vote will go after this is as good a question as where it would Lave gone if things remained as they had been. Nobody really knows what will happen in the Middle East. Violence and assassination have rarely led to anything good. The delicate balance in the Middle East will no doubt be upset, but only time will show what will topple and what will emerge strong. By DANIEL ROSENFIELD Last spring, in my column, I discussed the dangers of selling Airborn Warning and Control Systems (AWACS) to Saudia Arabia. I was against the proposed sale because I did not believe that one could buy friends; certainly the United States has never been suc- cessful. Further, it did not make sense to attempt to woo the government of a country that had never been noted for its stability with the most sophisiticated military equipment that the United States could build. If the Saudis were to ,get the A WACS, I felt, as did certain sources in Washington, that it would only be a matter of time before the Russians would gain access to the secrets of the American A WACS system. Stability can only be as strong as the government. The internal confusion that exists in Saudia Arabia rnal~es an ideal setting for espio11age. To counter this threat, the negotiators for the United States claimed that the .pla11es would be sold without certain pieces of the most sensitive equipment and that U.S. crews would man and maintai.Il the planes for at least two years. In this way the U.S. would retain some control over the use of the planes, and insure the security of the AWACS defense system. As I write this article I am watching the news broadcasts of the assassination of the president of Egypt, Anwar Sadat. Once again, the stability of the Middle East is in jeopardy, as has just been pointed out on Channel 6 by Steven Burke, Professor of History, Union College, who is an expert in Middle East af- fairs. To make matters worse, not only will Saudia Arabia accept no conditions on the sale of the planes but they will be sold completely intact-it has now been announced that to remove any equipment from the plane, the entire computer system will have to be redesigned. Tjlis means that Saudia Arabia will get the most sophisticated AWACS in existence and the U.S. will have no control on their use of security. What does this mean? I think it means that if the U.S. goes through with the sale that we will be giving our most sophisiticated technology to the Russians. Under the best conditions, technology is dif- ficult to protect. I do not think that this situation has been helped any by the events of late. Concordiensis invites students to respond to commentaries and editorials. Any responsible viewpoint will be presented and we welcome the opportunity to do so. The Editors.

Page 14 OONCORDIE NSIS, October 8, 1981 . . . . ' . 0 • H ' . . . • ', • • • • ' < ' •• S\rts & Culture When, the Music Died ··E.nergy FUm Proiect On Saturday, October 17 at 7.:30 p .. m. the films Sy ROBERTA RUB·INSTEIN In discussing the music of the 20th century, we often speak of 'the music of a decade.' It seems that the mus'ic of each decade has its owH unique sound and gives us its own Uilique messages. With this in mind it is not at all surprising to find that the music of a decade often reflects both the passions and the politics of the people of the times. The music that came from the 1920's for example, namely ragtime and early jazz, has a heated, almost frenzied sound, It is not merely coincidental that this era was characterized by an adventurous spirit and an animated delerium. The lightheartedness and optimism of these people were reflected in the music of the times. Moving into the 1930's we see the heated sounds of the Zo's undergoing a transition simultaneously with the changes in the temperament of the people. The depression and more particularly, the plight of the blacks are reflected in the more serious and the more solemn sound of the blues. In the early 40's the blues were combined with rhythm which reflected the newly found optimism at the close of WWII. It is from the rhythm and blues of the 40's that we can trace the birth of the rock and roll of the .50's. It seems that in the 1950's everybody saw themselves as Doris Day puritans, and tile birth .of rock and roll meant the end of this innocence and tile beginning of mGre passionate days. S()cial and political consciousness were on the rise and their arrival on the scene paved the way for the SGcial changes that the next decade was to bring. No decade is more definitively defined by its music than the 1960's. The songs of this era strike out at racism, the establishment, and eventually the VietNam war. The people of this time were passianate and involved. and they used their music the way the politicians used propaganda. Social awareness was the big ·issue coming into the 60's, and with it came sex, drugs and rock and rolL \You see, we had Kennedy in the White House, and we actually believed that we could chaEge the world through our songs'' (.Michael Ochs, Forward Look Into the Past). So artists like Bob Dylan arrived on the scene, and they wrote about the injustices in life. Then Kennedy was shot and the musicians were m~er-dosing, and the 60's were written off as a revolationary era. Which finally and at last brings me to the point of this random sounding article--a tribute to the musicians of the 1960's who died in the midst of their careers. The recent film, \When the This Week on W RUC Tonite 9-10 p.m.: DON MCLEAN RADIO SPECIAL-- An hour of music and con- versation with the author of \American Pie.\ Friday 2-5 p.m.--MAGICAL MUSICAL TOUR--AI Gold- berg's your cruise director, as you explore rock, pop, and new wave for three hours on Friday afternoon. Saturday 10-11 p.m.-- SA'TU RDA Y NIGHT CON- CERT SERIES presents: SPYRO GYRA Monday 8-ll p.m.--TED BEHAR'S THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS--First ha-lf: Classic Rock; Second half: Classi ca I Music. Time D.J. SCHEDULE ~am. L12m, l Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. 1h!.!!:.,_ Fri. §ll:. ?: 00 am. The * * Stev-e .. .. * 5:00 Rea12er Fallon 5:00 * .. .. * .. * * 7:00 7:00 * * * warren .. * * 8:30 Hunt 8:30 * * Val Lynda .. * * 9:30 H;tman • 9:30 Ken Rob Lenes Stev-e .. * * 10: )0 Mains La!!za 10: )0 Ad 1 er Lee Melissa Mauricio David Bill Dan11Y 11:30 Glickman Beth Berman 11:30 Doug Rob .Gruen Cori Eppler Ton~o yohay 1~: ~0 pm. N!oza;yen~ Scali 1?: JO ti ~~er- Clail Bill Carl C)lns Susan Rob l:JO otein Canter Singer Hommel Grimes Stern Mendschiern l:J0-2:00 Mark ~~~~- -~a~g~? Alan ?:00 ffreg -Mitch Sebastian ~i~~ Pinto H· Rubin Pifko 1'/allin _AG Saunders Raisman Julie ~~filer- Larry Matt J.R. Exploring- 6:30 & Wild- Tannen- 6:30 Hoved man ~Ielissa Shapiro B~HIPn\ Saunders Post ~:ClO Gold :go Je£1 Ted LaiTy Paul <tane Br~an Gene 11 .i:io Mitchell Beha r lieberman Mr!;le- Cavalier Bouck Saw a 11;00 . Ken Mike Mark Andy Mike John * . ?:00 am. Becker Ro3ers Gentile Sobel K:leine G iza * D.J. ·'s To Be Announced Need Blood? Stage Blood, Fangs, CapeS-, Make Up, Ev&rything For the Vampire I The Costumer .,' 444 State St. i;;tte~ctody, N.Y. 374-7442 15 ,000 Rental (Qstumes l,()()()'s of Masks & Accessories j IIEW'ftU STim IIJLtOWEU flEDIU&miS \(} Music Died\ was intended to be just that-a tribute to people like Jimi Hendrix {1942-1970), Janis Joplin (1943-1970), Jim Morrison (1943-1971?) al}d many others. But looktng back at the film, it is evident that less than half of the clips actually included any of the music of the period. It would be unfair to say that in fact the movie did not commemorate the musicians of the sixties. It was a sensitive and accurate illustration of the musical events of the period- with a special tribute to Ronnie Van Zant and the other mern- bers of the Skynard band of the 70's. It is important to realize that because only a small portion of the film was devoted to actual music, no lime was cheated out of a \tribute to the music of the sixties.\ The point is that the politics of the era, the scenes that were captured in this film, are inseparable from the music of the sixties. A tribute to the musicians and the music of the sixties is in effect a tribute to all that was important in that time. Mix a little bit of rhythm and blues, the politics of the 60's, a little bit of love and add \drugs as a catalyst\ and the end result will be 60's rock and roll. The real passion of the 60's can ·be. found in the music of the decade. And to get .the full flavor of what this time was all about catch the flick \When the Music Died.\ It is a tribute to people of a decade-each and every one of them. f 'TOAST and LOVEJOY'S NUCLEAR WAR will be shown at Channing Hall, 405 Washington Avenue, in Albany. These films explore the use of energy within our society and its implications tor our daily lives. There is no admiss·ion charg.e. For furthe.r informa.tioh on these films call 438- 6314 evenings. A.Inerican Expres.s ·Sponsors Films . If you are at .all typical, you \We wanted to give students probably think your dedicated 'appropriate credit' for their efforts to get through school go work, both by providing unappreciated and that you welcome relief to hours spent in deserve considerably more the library, and by making it credit and recognition for your easier for graduating students hard work. to get the kind of credit they'll The American Express need in the real world, says Lisa Company thinks so too. And Goldberg, manager at they are willing to. give credit American Express. where credit is due -on campus \Our animated centurion tells (of \course\). How? Through the story before each film,'' sponsoring the American explains Ms. Goldberg. Express Film Festival, a series \Graduating students who hold of movies and popular film the promise of a job with a classics for college students at minimum salary of $10,000 and an inexpensive admission. have no negative credit history Union College is one of 250 can qualify for a Card,\ ~she campuses participating in the said \And even better, the first festival this year. A film chosen group of students arriving. at by the Film Committee for the each film will get a T·shirt.\ 1980-81 season: Heaven Can So look for your school film Wait is scheduled for Tuesday, festival· and remember October 13 at 7, 9 and 11 American Express Card's p.m.Free Admission. Room special student criteria, \Don't SS016. leave school without it.\ Speciai.YOM KIPPUR Open House FREE Break-Fast· 8 p.m. October 8th in kitchen Freshmen inquire about the MEAL PLAN • Call Jessica at 6658 or Alan at 6960 PLANS 15 Meals and weekends 5 Meals Friday Dinners \Eat in tile Kosher Kitchen and Enjoy your meall\ $350.00 $200.00 $35.00 DC I_

OONOORDIENSIS, October 8_, 1981 Page 15 ~rts & Culture ' ' . : ~' ' ' ' . ' . ' ' . . . ' . . ' . . ' ' ' . ' ' Turner to Lecture on Union Design Arehitectural historian Paul V. Turner of Stanford University, who ts currently writing a book on the history of American college design, will deliver the 1981 Walter C. Baker Lecture in Axt and Civilization at Union College on Saturday, October 10. Union Coll~g~ Concert Committee His presentation is entitled \Nott Ramee, and Jefferson: A New Interpretation.\ It wiU begin a 6:15 p.m. in the Union College Memorial Chapel, and all interested persons are welcome to attend . ~ Presents ... DON McLEAN and LIVINGSTON TAYLOR IN CONCERT Oct. 9 8:00p.m. Memorial Chapel Tickets on sale now in Carnegie Hall Turner's lecture is a major feature of Union's Homecoming Weekend, to be held October 9 to 11 this year. In his talk, Turner will offer a new interpretation of both '-------------------------o , Thomas Jefferson's plan for the University of Virginia and the Joseph Jacques Ramee design for Union College. There are, TurJl£r believes, significant American components to both plans that have previously been ignored by historians. iabtree I~ 0 :\ i In the case of Union, this involves Turner's theory that longtime Union College president Eliphalet Nott had a greater hand in Ramee's design than has been supposed. By examining certain aspects of Jefferson's plan for the AT THE SIGN OF THE CRABAPPLE TREE You· will discover soaps & toiletries fragrant! y perfutned with herbs, flowers and fruits. AND COMESTIBLES . produced in the Countryside of England and Europe. Crabtree & Evely~ LONDON 299 HAMILTON STREET ALBANY, N.Y. 12210 (518) 463-8041 433 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY, N.Y.12305 1518) 346-6604 University of Virginia, Turner hopes to put the Union design in a larger context and also shed some light 017 the old con- troversy about the relationship of the two designs. A native of Schenectady and 1962 graduate of Uniol'l College, Turner received a master's degree and a doctorate in art history and a master's degree in architecture from Harvard, where he was a Woodrow Wilson ~el:low. He is currently an associate professor at Stanford University, where he teaches courses in the history of architecture. Turner's numerous publications include the books The Education of LeCorbusier and The Founders and the Architects: The Design of Stanford ·university. In 1976, he was awarded a National Endowment for the Humanities grant to begin research on the history of American college design. He is currently writing a book based on this work. Turner will be the first Union alumnus to 'deliver the Walter C. Baker Lecture, established in 1975 to bring distinguished scholars in arts and letters to Union to further an un- derstanding of the role of the creative arts in the develop- ment of civilization. The late Mr. Baker was a noted art patron and collector and a longtime member and chair- man of the Union College Board of Trustees. This year's Baker Lecture is the last of three presentations in the Walter C. Baker Series on the Architectural Heritage of Union College. For more information, contact the Union College Arts Department, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308. Software Fiction By MANDY ABRAMS A unique and refresh~ng short story writer was introduced to the world in Omni's October issue. The author's name is RACTER and his style, as exemplified in the short story \Soft Ions,\ is truly novel. RACTER is a computer program and it's prggrammer is Bill Chamberlain. With the conception of a program that creates and writes a story (in perfect English) comes the often heard question 'can computers think?' The factors delineating human intelligence and intelligent machines seem to be vanishing. Human in- telligence has the capability of questioning, answering, being comical, and emotional as well as logical. Although RACTER can only write the words it is given in lists the product is totally spontaneous and un- predictable. Four characters set out to eat a meal with a friend. An at- mosphere is set. \Helene Wendy, and Mathew could leisurely lead their thinking to the meal that Helene would prepare at Mathew's apart- ment They would chew a little corn, a bit of apples, and sip a lot of wine and bolt · some steaks; the meal would be . delicious, the wine, as always, bubbly. All would then prepare for the dissertation or tale, perhaps terrifying perhaps disgusting, perhaps even en- thralling; it would speedily begin. Of what nature? We shall see.\ The capability and capacity to think and understand are important attributes in RAC- TER's characters. \Helene watched John and cogitated: A supper with him? Disgusting! A supper would facilitate a dissertation, and a dissertation or tale was what John carefully wanted to have. With what in mind'? Wine, otters, beans? No! Electrons! John simply was a quantum logician ... Yet John whispered, \Just a , minute! Helene's a maid, I'm a quantum logician; can maids know galax~s and even stars or a multitude of galactic systems? The universe is frightening, little, gargantuan; can maids recognize electrons? I recognize that each of you thinks I'm maniacal, but electrons and neutrons and a multitude of mesons are within you all.'' RACTER is not without a sense of humor. The reader may wonder if he's chuckling at the written word or the manner in which the word is written. \Mathew where's the lamb chop?\ whispered Helene. \Lamb chops, you mean,\ sang Mathew. \You me, Wendy, and John can't all swallow one lamb chop.\ \And Mark, he also desires lamb chops,\ said Wendy. \Now wait,\ s~ng Mathew, \let's struggle to understand where spooky old Mark is.\ \Mark said that he was rambling over to eat with us,\ cried Helene; \he's sashaying up some turnpike right now.\ RACTER proceeds to weave a tale of character interactions that seems aimless and yet it evokes the reader's emotions. The importance of the tale is not the plot but who and what the characters are and how they assess their environment. The invention of RACTER, like so many other breakthroughs of the 20th century, seem to bring out more questions than it answers. RACTER asks these questions also-and answers them. \But you are a person, a human being. I am silicon and epoxy energy enlightened by line current. What distances, what chasms, are to be bridged here? Leave me alone, and what can happen? This. I ate my leotard, that old leotard that was feverishly replenished by hoards of steaming com- missioners. Is that thought understandable to you? Can you rise to its occasions? I wonder. Yet a leotard; a commissioner a single hoard, all are un: derstandable in their own fashion. In that concept lies the appalling truth.\ What factors are left that delineate hwnan intelligence and, dare I say it, mechanical intelligence? Perhaps it is the same factor which distinguishes humans from Vulcans like Spack -the presence or absence of emotion. \Soft Ions\ is cer- tainly a short story worth reading and thinking about.

Page 16 CONCO:U,DIENSIS~ October 8, 1981 General Nottlces There are two new librarians in Technical Processes in Schaeffer Library during the past year. Karina Ricker who graduated from the University of Albany in 1980 with a degree in English and Computer Science and Elizabeth Lane who was appointed Head of Technical Processes in Schaffer Library. She received a BA from the college of Saint Rose and an MLS from Syracuse University. Two former State University at Albany faculty members will be guest speakers at a Futures Symposium to be sponsored by the Bethlehem Central School Di~trict in Delmar, N.Y., on Tuesday, Oct. 20. Robert Rienow, will speak on: \Catching Up With the World ·Of Tomorrow.\ Vincent Schaefer, who retired .recently as Director of the University's Atmospheric Sciences Research Center, will respond to his remarks. The program will take place at Bethlehem Central High School, 700 Delaware Ave., Delmar, beginning at 8 p.m. An information session and film for students interested in the NEW YORK STATE ASSEMBLY SESSION IN- TERNSHIP program will be held on October 12, 3:00p.m., in the Career Center. Sign up in advance at the Career Center, or call Pat Matteo (x6176). Scholarship A vaUable -students wishing to enter the ICP (International Computer Programs, Inc.) Scholarship competition must submit their HOMECOMING '81 SATURDAY NIGHT OCT. 10th SHOWS AT 7 and 9 pm Act 1: Alumnus .... TOM FARRELL Act 2: MELISSA GOLD and Company MC: the amazing NATALIE BARANDES Tickets are on sale at the box office in Carnegie $1.50 WED. EVE. COLLEGE liGHT 1 0% OFF ANY SANDWICH '£1~1112~ Sl.4()1 [)Ill Delicious Sandwiches Homemade Soups &- Salads Domestic & lmp~rted· Beers FREE DELIVERY SERVICE WITH MINIMUM ORDER OPEN MON. THRU SAT. 8 to 5 WED. & THURS. EVE. TILL 9 We Will Be Open After Praetor's Theater Performances 160 Jay St. Schenectady, N.Y. Phone 382-5493 e Ices applications by November 15, 19SL . ICP's fourth annual scholarship offering, the award will be Hlade to a computer science or computer technology student for the 1982-83 school year. Applications a:re available through Financial Aid office at Union. Notice to Seniors. I wiU be taking photographs for senior pictures iA the yearbook. If you do not wish to go through the company, call me. I will charge $3.00 and will take photographs as you like. Amy Edwards, 374- 5543. A new editor is needed for Pathways, the Girl Scouts Coundl newsletter. Among the r.e.sponsibilities are planning p11blj:cation content for 5 issues a year and writing and .editing Open Auditions! ! For the upcoming special BROADWAY CABARET. Actor-singers, jugglers, rnag·icians, etc. needed for this New York City style cabaret night. You need not be the best performer-just someone who loves to be on stage. There will be a Hlandatory general meeting for all those interested on Wednesday, October 14 at 4:30 p.m. in the cabaret room in Carnegie. At this time audition materials will be distributed and try-out dates will be set. If you cannot attend this meeting, send your name, telephone number, and box number to Union College, Box 199 by Monday, 10-12. You will not want to miss out on what is · destined to be the best cabaret · ever!!! Women's Network SEA OnMonday, Oct. 12 at 8 p.m., the Women's Network and the Student Environmental Alliance (SEA) will be spon- . soring an open lecture oh the . bottle baby scandal in third world countries and the related . Nestle boycott. The speaker will be Scott Sommer, CINFACT national coordinator. The lecture will be held in the 4th • floor lounge of Carnegie Hall. All are welcome. articles. A volunteer is also needed to manage the letter .. For fur.ther information, call 518-374-3345, Mohawk Pathways Girl Scout .Council, Inc. ATTENTION ALL MOVIE GOERS!'!! All movie tickets must be bought at the new ticket office located in Carnegie I:Iall. No money wiU be taken at the door. Thank you for your cooperation. The Union College Film Committee. To the Union College Campus Coirullunity: Please note that the Administrative and Engineering Systems Colloquium scheduled for October 3, 1981, has been cancelled. No meeting will be held on that date due to Yom Kippur. Gay Discussio11 Group There will be a Gay Discussion Group meeting Tuesday, Oct. 13 at 8:00p.m. All are welcome. Refreshments! The meeting will be in the second floor Humanities Lounge. For more information call Dana at 6860. Idol Today, Thursday, Oct. 8, at 7:30p.m., Idol, Union's art and literary magazine, will be holding its first general staff meeting. If you are interested in writing, drawing, taking photos or just simply putting a publication together, come join · us. The meeting will be held in the ld()l room on the top floor of Carnegie. Pre-Law Society Freshman, Sophmores, Juniors, Do you want to go to Law School? If so, then come join the Pre-law Society in its second meeting on Mon., Oct. 12. Look for details in Carnegie . If you can't make it, call Dave at 370-6769. Outing Club Skydiving is once again being offered by the Union Outing Club. All interested must attend Electric Boat is the world's foremost designer and builder of nuclear submarines- one of the great engineering challenges of this century. With a $3 billion backlog and long-term contracts, Electric Boat offers career opportunities in nearly every engineering discipline (including electrical, mechanical, civil, etc.), top pay and benefits, long-range stability and an unmatched lifestyle on the southern New England seacoast. U.S C•l•zensh•p required- an Equal Opportunliy Employer M&F. HC GENERAL DYNAMICS Electric Boat Division The Best Shipbuilding Team in America •' ···:' . Professor Schmee will schedule his discussion on \Power and Influence under Codetermination'' during November. FOR .SALE: Honda CB500T, 1975, excellent condition, many new parts. Contact Brad at 393~ 7222. FOR SALE: Rapidograph pen set and T-Square--$25. Ph . ....:377- 4169. WANTED: Bass guitar .player for the Union Jazz Ensemble, contact Brad at 393- 7222 or Box 410. a mandatory meeting at 8:00 p.m. Thurs., Oct. 8 in .Con- ference Room A in Carnegie. Films will be shown, and a representative from Albany Skydiving will answer any questions. Chess Club ~ Union's \Knights of the Square Table\ will become a fully funded club this year, and will meet every Wed. night from 8:30 to midnight in the 4th floor lounge. Students or faculty members interested in playing chess competition are welcome to attend. Nominations for officer positions will also be accepted this week. JSO-Hillel On Sunday, October 11, JSO- Hillel will ·be sponsoring a homecoming brunch. This bagels and lox brunch will be held in the Kosher Kitchen from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. The cost will be $.75 for members and $2.50 for non-members. In addition to the brunch Hillel will host a 'Sukkah party on Thursday, October 15. The party, which will take place from 4 to 6 p.m., is in Jackson Gardens. Refreshments will be served and music will be provided. All are welcome to attend. Electric Boat Division will be interviewing on campus on October 29, 1981. Informative slide presentations, questions and answer period to be held on the evening of October 15 .. Refreshments will be served. Please contact the Placement Office for time and place. • Te Nc An ; been fo tenurat Mark you li1 · K~ep\' .... ,. Pul>~· we•ve t Pu .-.~ with an Julie· thetre Rach It'$ re;.l Mom t • youre surprts~ Sis\\'1 are you spuon? Spue, Bailo for salE Jeruu slope o circle? . ..,., ~.: . M~~ London , .. , - ty Mitt do'\vif; irhpilftl ·:.:,:: .. ?;;~t~·

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, October 8, 1981 . ' \.o-...\'.jo v_--l-....-..~·\\\o,~ • Gen·eral Nottices ..... There are two new librarians in Technical Processes in Schaeffer Library dl!lring the past year. Karina Ricker who graduated from the University of Albany in 1980 with a degree in English and Computer Science and Elizabeth Lane who was appointed Head of Technical Processes in Schaffer Library. She received a BA from the college of Saint Rose and an MLS from Syracuse University. Two former State University at Albany faculty members will be guest speakers at a Futures Symposium to be sponsored by the Bethlehem Central School District in Delmar, N.Y., on Tuesday, Oct. 20. Robert Rienow, will speak on: \Catching Up With the World of Tomorrow.\ Vincent Schaefer, who retired recently as Director of the UHiversity's Atmospheric Sciences Research Center, will respond to his remarks. The program will take place at Bethlehem Central High School, 700 Dela\'\ are Ave., Delmar, beginning at 8 p.m. An information session and film for stl!ldents interested in the NEW YORK STATE ASSEMBLY SESSION IN- TERNSHIP program will be held on October 12,3:00 p.m., in the Career Center. Sign 1:1p in advance at the Career Center, or call Pat Matteo (x:6176). Scholarship Available -students wishing to enter the ICP (International Computer Programs, Inc.) Scholarship competition must submit their HOMECOMING '81 SATURDAY NIGHT OCT. lOth SHOWS AT 1 and 9 pm Act 1: Alumnus ••• TOM FARRELL Act 2: MELISSA GOLD and Company MC: the amazing NATALIE BARANDES Tickets are on sale at the box office in Carnegie $1.50 WED. EVE. COLLEGE NIGHT 10% OFF ANY SANDWICH r£(~J(J?~ Sl~()l ()Ill Delicious Sandwiches Homemade Soups & Salads Domestic & lmport~d Beers FREE DELIVERY SERVICE WITH MINIMUM ORDER OPEN MON. THRU SAT. 8 to 5 WED. & THURS. EVE. TILL 9 We Will Be Open After Proctor's Theater Perform1nces 160 Jay St. Schenectady, N.Y. Phone 382-5493 e Ices applications by November 15, 1981. ICP's fourth annual scholarship offering, the award will be made to a computer science or computer technology student for the 1982-83 school year. Applications are available through Financial Aid office at Union. Notice to Seniors. I wiH be taking photographs for senior pictures in the yearbook. If you do not wish to go through the company, call me. I will charge $3.00 and wil'l take photographs as you like. Amy Edwards, 374- 5543. A new editor is needed for Path ways, the Girl Scouts Council newsletter. Among the responsibilities are planning publ.ication content for 5 issues a year and writing and editing Open Auditions! ! For the upcoming special BROADWAY CABARET. Actor-singers, jugglers, magicians, etc. needed for this New York City style cabaret night. You need not be the best performer-just someone who loves to be on stage. There will be a mandatory general meeting for all those interested on Wednesday, October 14 at 4:30 p.m. in the cabaret room in Carnegie. At this time audition materials will be distributed and try-out dates will be set. If you cannot attend this meeting, send your name, telephone number, and box number to Union College, Box 199 by Monday, 10-12. You will not want to miss out on what is destined to be the best cabaret ever!!! Women's Network SEA On Monday, Oct. 12 at 8 p.m., the Women's Network and the Student Environmental Alliance (SEA) will be spon- soring an open lecture on the bottle baby scandal in third world countries and the related Nestle boycott. The speaker will be Scott Sommer, CINFACT national coordinator. The lecture will be held in the 4th floor lounge of Carnegie Hall. All are welcome. articles. A volunteer is also needed to manage the letter .. For further information, call 518-374-3345, Mohawk Pathways Girl Scout -Council, Inc. ATTENTION ALL MOVIE GOERS!!! All movie tickets must be bought at the new ticket office located in Carnegie Hall. No money wiH be taken at the door. Thank you for your cooperation. The Union College Film Conunittee. To the Union College Campus Community: Please note that the Administrative and Engineering Systems Colloquium scheduled for October 3, 1981, has been cancelled. No meeting will be held on that date due to Yom Kippur. Gay Discussion Group There will be a Gay Discussion Group meeting Tuesday, Oct.l3 at 8:00p.m. All are welcome. Refreshments! The meeting will be in the second floor Humanities Lounge. For more information call Dana at 6860. Idol Today, Thursday, Oct. 8, at 7:30 p.m., Idol, Union's art and literary magazine, will be holding its first general staff meeting. If you are interested in writing, drawing, taking photos or just simply putting a publication together, come join us. The meeting will be held in the Idol room on the top floor of Carnegie. Pre-Law Society Freshman, Sophmores, Juniors, Do you want to go to Law School? If so, then come join the Pre·law Society in its second meeting on Mon., Oct. 12. Look for details in Carnegie. If you can't make it, call Dave at 370-6769. Outing Club Skydiving is once again being offered by the Union Outing Club. All interested must attend Professor Schmee will schedule his discussion on \Power and Influence under Codetermina tion'' during November. FOR SALE: Honda CB500T, 1975, excellent condition, many new parts. Contact Brad at 393- 7222. FOR SALE: Rapidograph pen set and T..Square-$25. Ph.-377- 4169. WANTED: Bass guitar player for the Union Jazz Ensemble, coHtact Brad at 393- 7222 or Box 410. a mandatory meeting at 8:00 p.m. Thurs., Oct. 8 in Con- ference Room A in Carnegie. Films will be shown, and a representative from Albany Skydiving will answer any questions. Chess Club Union's \Knights of the Square Table\ will become a fully funded club this year, and will meet every Wed. night from 8:30 to midnight in the 4th floor lounge. Students or faculty members interested in playing chess competition are welcome to attend. Nominations for officer positions will also be accepted this week. JSO- Hillel On Sunday, October 11, JSO- Hillel will · be sponsoring a homecoming brunch. This bagels and lox brunch will be held in the Kosher Kitchen from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. The cost will be $. 75 for members and $2.50 for non-members. In addition to the brunch Hillel will host a Sukkah party on Thursday, October 15. The party, which will take place from 4 to 6 p.m., is in Jackson Gardens. Refreshments will be served and music will be provided. All are welcome to attend. AT ELECTRIC BOAT! Electric Boat is the world's foremost designer and builder of nuclear submarines- one of the great engineering challenges of this century. With a $3 billion backlog and long-term contracts, ~>, Electric Boat offers career opportunities in nearly every engineering discipline (including electrical, mechanical, civil, etc.). top pay and benefits, long-range stability and an unmatched lifestyle on the southern New England seacoast. GENERAL CVNAMIC:S Electric Boat Division The Best Shipbuildmg Team in America Electric Boat Division will be interviewing on campus on October 29, 1981. Informative slide presentations, questions and answer period to be held on the evening of October 15. Refreshments will be served. Please contact the Placement Office for time and place. ---...------ An been f tenura Marl you lJ Keep. PUp· we've Pup-- with a Julit; they'rE Racl It's re Mon you're surpri: Sis-' are yo spoon~ Sput Ballj for sal Jear slope cirde': Myr LondQJ Deal your a Spai ·Tuesd: Jay, . typing Mat' down, impot'1 Clyc to be. De a worst The S2, l near f Wel• P.L.O

Tenure Notices An ad-hoc committee has been formed to investigate the tenurability of Professor David Mark-L~v~ that green ha4 OONOORDIENSIS, October 8, 1981 I Hayes of the Department of Chemistry. Anyone who wishes to make a statement to the committee is requested to make inquiry from. any of the following: John Boyer, Biology; Yu Chang, EE; Charles Scaife, Chemistry;, Sven Peterson, Philosophy. -·. e Ices An ad hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Brenda Wineapple, Assistant Professor of English. Students, faculty, and alumni are invited to submit letters to the chairman of the committee, Professor James Underwood, Department of Political Science, Socia!} Sciences Building. The Philosop~y Department is currently conducting a Third Year Review for Assistant Professor Linda Patrik. Members ef the Union com• munity who wish to contribute information to the Committee conducting this review are Page 17 invited to respond in writing to any of the following faculty members: Professors Helen Ouellette, Department of Classics, Sven Peterson and Jan Ludwig, both of the Department of Philosophy. All com- munications will be held in confidence by the committee. Fred, How's your back? I'm considering going into ehlropraetory, you know. Car you li > <:: ... · fOOl · K~~P ,: . . :~~~~~!;,X,,.,%.·,,,.,,.\ ,._liliiilrt.;;, n r O.C'. fltml)le...Qne thing . remember is that a varmint will never quit. Soo you at the Turf. Plip~~r ·ttafit<t · '6elieve · tbit we 1 ve r'W:l: QUt .uf <C~les. ''i'ed RacbrCan yuu believe thiS? It's r.~lly worinn~U Mom,.· bad~ & Steffie-Glad you're here, it was .. a gr.eat surprise! Sis-Thanks for the brownies, are you sure you ditln~t lick the spcon? Bro. Spue, I'm psyched! Ballot5n Lady, Any bidloons for sale? · Jeannine. How do you find the slope of a point tangent to a circle? · Yti --~'i-'...,; Sp~mll · 'l'~o~~::.J;n) ~lib' on Tu¢s4,~y~. H~§p~ .. l.Jt~gpf. .. A-·.-' • '' ~-· ~~-~~· - ·Y\ Bo-l'm psyched for our sbow •.. whenever it begins. We're going to be A .. l. Dear Dan, You shoul'd have come with us, we were only gone 10 minutes! Love, Charis, Caitlin, Honey Bcee and Roberto Rich, Nice to see you're back from your \vacation\, Rocks just wasn't \.the same without you. Nora, Do you. do. windows? 7 Rob and Stu Weldon, _yogurt! ! ? ? P~anuts and ,. j:amais assez de temps a fake les ehO:ses . quton . veut ~aire. guand on les trouve. Je t'airne. C.L.-Only you would bother me with· something like thisr Ed. PUp-Standing ainn easy-T~d Sue-'~Go Dry Up??\ Sue, Cindy, Jeanne, Thanks f<lr the ego trip. Paul J)ear Rail- You can drive me anywhere, with or without a piece of paper. Mostly you drive rne crazy t with passion and lov:e. , Don't stop~ M~~ Good luek Sat. night. I know you'll-do gre~t. Love Cbar . Brian-Open your blinds, we pr~i$e:vw;e,, won't ,peek! . 20 Union ·A::V~,. Bo, one, never kii(IWS wbat one wil findin a slwpping cart, does p~'Jt Locve y,puJ ., ,Jay~ · h and Pete-WeJ~o .e Hn; · The place isn't samG' wltoout you. Lave~ Charis 1 ean't d~Il! · {.SUW1d •tv ctnl<..v . . .,. •. 't nii'oo.,~~;i~f ·va.lt .· Fraternities, Sororities Anything Going On~ Let Us Know and We'll Get People to Your Event Please submit your blurb (typed) to the Concordiensis by 7:00 pm Tuesdays run into constantly never. g« a personal!! Here's your first! Love, Charts Nancy, I wouldn't make it to my first class if it weren't for you! Love, T.D. Have something ''.personal'' to say 1 Dro.p it off at the Con· ci)rdiensis office before 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday and we'll ge the word across for you. Bio Bob-Stop groaning :. . . Stop complaining .. . . Stop studying . . . and smil(} · Mark-you embarrassed me and I'll never tell ... Watcb out on Friday. ' 'Teen tour friends, all the wa's-Welcome back and get ready for a wild and crazy year Joe, 1 swear, I never laugh under your window anymore! To the members of Skeeter 0. Smith House--Don't get too· cocky just because Eustas P. moved off campus. He's still out there hunting beavers and spreading herpes with the same intensity as before. Charis, Good Luck ... Again Barton, A while? L.B.-8MILE! Listen to the Clash; J. Strummer· D.L.- You're wonderful at forgiving and forgetting and I appreciate it. I wish I could be as easy going. I promise I'm ·working on it. r~g~ 464 State St. Schenectady, NY ~~ ~SL -.WE DELIVER- 374-1888 Homecoming Movie: Shows at: 7, 9, & 11 on: Oct. 9, 10, 11 in: 55 016

I l t l i. i ~. Tenure Notices An ad-hoc committee has been formed to investigate the tenurability of Professor David Mark-Love that green hat, . you little leprauehaun you! Keep . those frisbees flying! Pup--1 canjt believe that we've run out of candles. Ted Pup-Let's go out for piz~. with anchovies! t Julie-I can't believe what they're doing to the office. Ed. Rach-Can you believe this? It's really working!!· Mom, Dad, & Steffie-Glad you're here, it was a great surprise! Sis- Thanks for the brownies, are you sure you didn't lick the spoon? Bro. Spue, I'm psyched! Balloon Lady, Any balloons for sale? Jeannine, How do you find the slope of a point tangent to a ,cirde? Myrna, Don't get lost in the London fog. Love, TH Dear Mike, rn take a bit of your apple any time. Love RIM Spanish Table in Pub on · Tuesduy .. Hasta luegol Jay, Do your own damn typing! CONCORD IE NSI8, October 8, 1981 Hayes of the Department of Chemistry. Anyone who wishes to make a statement to the committee is requested to make inquiry from any of the following: John Boyer, Biology; Yu Chang, EE; Charles Scaife, Chemistry; Sven Peterson, Philosophy. e Ices An ad hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Brenda Wineapple, Assistant Professor of English. Students, faculty, and alumni are invited to submit letters to the chairmaN of the committee, Professor James Underwood, Department of Political Science, Social Sciences Building. The Philosopty Department is CNrrently conducting a Third Year Review for Assistant Professor Linda Patrik. Members of the Union com- munity wfio wish to contribute inforrnatien to the Committee cenducting this review are I ll . ersoqa s f Milkshakes anyone? How about M&M's1 or are Hermit Cookies better? Bo-Pm psyched for our show ... whenever it begins. We're going to be A~l. Dear Dan, You should have CQme with us, we were only gone 10 minutes! Love, Charis, Caitlin, Honey Bee and Roberto . Rich, Nice to see you're back from your \vacation\, Rocks just wasn't the same without you. Nora, Do you do windows?? Rob and Stu Weldon, yogurt!!?? Peanuts S.L. Open your eyes. Darrel-Klutz! B.C. I MISS YOU!! and 700 South-We're anxiously awaiting your next bash. Hope it's as good as the last! Love, 20 Union Ave. Pledges-Be psyched for a fantastic new start! Love, the jamais assez de temps a faire les choses q11'on veut fair€, guand on les tronve. Je t'aim€. C.L.-Only you would bother me with something like this.- Ed. Pup-Standing ain't easy-Ted Sue-\Go Dry Up??\ Sue, Cindy, Joanne., Thanks for the ego t:tiip. Paul Pear Rail...-Y ou can drive me anywhere, with or without a piece of paper. Mostly you drive me crazy, -with passion and love. Don't st()p~ Mel, Good luck Sat. night. I knowyou'lldo great. Love Char Brian-Open youi' blinds, we promise we won't peek! 20 Union Ave Bo, One never knows what one wil find in a shopping cart, does onet ! Love you! Jay, Rich and Pete-Welcome Home l ! The place isn't the same without you. Love, Charis Sue, I can't de~:~: I! ! (Sound run into constantly never get a perscmal!? Here's your first! Love, Charts Nancy, I wouldn't make it to my first class if it weren't for you! Love, T.D. :Have something ''personal\ to say? Drop it off at the Con- eordiensis office before 7:00' p.m. on Tuesday and we'll ge the word across for you. .Bio Bob-Stop groaning Stop complaining . . . Stop studying . . . and smile Mark .... you embarrassed me and I'll never tell ... Watch out on Friday. Teen tour friends, all the wa's-Welcome back and get ready for a wild and crazy year Page 17 invited te respond in writing to any of the following faculty members: Professors Helen Ouellette, Department of Classics, Sven Peterson and Jan Ludwig, both of the Department of Philosophy. All com- munications will be held in confidence by the committee. Fred, How's your back? I'm considering going into chiropraetory,. you kn()w. Gar O.C. People-One thing to remember is that a varmint will never quit. See you at the Turf. Joe, I swear, I never laugh under your window anymore! To the members of Skeeter 0. Smith House--Don't get too cocky just because Eustas P. moved off campus. He's still out there hunting beavers and spreading herpes with the same intensity as before. Charis, Good Luck . . . Again Barton, A while? L.B.-SMILE! Listen to the Clash: J. Strummer D.L. You're wonderful at forgiving and forgetting and I appreciate it. 1 wish I could be as easy going. I promise I'm · working on it. Matt, Dontt let things get you · sisters of Sigma Delta Tau familiar'?) Why can't ev(lrything be sirnple? 464 State St. -.WE DELIVER- 37 4-1888 down, they're not really that important. Love you, CR Clydet Doug, Rich-It's going to be a great yeart Dear President-Who tells the worst jokes? The bmnble bee rides again l S2, I hope t meet you in the near future. DJI. Weldon, I'm going to join the P.L.O. L.B. Champ-Looking forward to seeing you again-I love you. Chief Lisa S.-Happy 18th! (See, I told you I was going to tell the whole c~mpus!)-Love 1 JG To My Prince, Mrs. Hip, Mr. Curve, and Belly all s~y hi! See you this weekend. Princess Angel Eyes: Miss them a lot, All my love 23. Mon Amour: Mais ce n'est Mel, Great l\adio showt M2-I have definite CP on ... Sue-Let's hope tonight is better than last Thursday night; we didn't av~n get any toilet paper out of it! {Too bad it would have been appropriate!) Beth, Hey stranger! Try to find some ro()m in your busy schedule for some old friends. LoveJ Charts and Sue · Jeanine, How could someone I Fraternities, Sororities Anything Going On? Let Us Know and We'll Get People to Your E~ent Please submit your blurb (typed) to the Concordiensis by 7:00 pm Tuesdays Schenectady, NY Homecoming Movie: Shows at: 7, 9, & 11 on: Oct. 9, 10, 11 in: 55 016

• Page 18 OONOORDIENSIS, October 8,. 1981 0 0 ..t: ll. ....: t:i Ten·nls Victorious· Brenner with the bump \\\·t· By JUDIE STEINHARDT On Monday, October 5, the women '.s tennis team beat Middlebury College 4-3. The ·girls played very well, although Coach Leslie Arakelian believes they could have won more of the matches. Sophomore Julie Miller is the number one player , .and is undefeated so far .. The team itself is doing well with a record of two wins, one loss, as compared to last year's record of three wins, eight losses for the whole season. The one loss this year, against Hamilton, was due to a change Spikers Slide . ByCATHYGIFFORD traveled to SUNY at New Paltz played very well agamst Pace, . to take on Vassar as well as but our defense needs work. New Paltz. A 16-14, 15-13 win They. couldn't h,~.ndle the Union's volleyball team, after completing their first week of the season, lists a 2-4 record. The squad has played well but has been hampered by injuries, the flu, and rush. As Coach Barta stated, \This year the key is flexibility. Everyone so far has played a new position because we've been shor- thanded; the team has yet to play 'together'.\ On Wednesday, October 1, eight of thirteen players over New Paltz was quickly pressure very well. · counterbalanced by a 15-13, 10- · Union scored a vic~ory 15 12-15 loss to Vassar. Two Monday, October 5, over Stena d~ys later Friday, October 3, 15-9,15-12,12-15,8-15, 15-6. Back the Dutch~omen hosted Pace at in the lineup was Cathy Gifford, their first home tournament. In who was out with tendonitis. a best of five game match, Pace \We should have WOf!- the third outlasted Union 15-8, 14-16, 6-15, match but we went ftve games and 12-15. \We started very instead of three. Theydinked us strong at the Albany Tour- to death ... but Nat(alie) Stone nament and we weakened has my vote· as ·the most considerably at New Paltz,\ valuable player this week. She commented Barta. \The girls played all week with the flu and Intramural VB played very well. Her game has improved all around and she should get more recognition,\ stated Barta. Tonight the squad travels to Williamstown, Ma., to play Williams College, a very strong, consistent team. Amy Hinshaw, sidelined by ankle problems, is expected to return to play at Williams. On Homecoming Saturday, October 10, Union will host Russell Sage in the fieldhouse at 11 a.m. Come and support Union athletics. The first women's intramural volleyball games began Thursday evening, October 1. The seven teams and thair captains are: Fourth Floor West, Sue Marr; Flying Nuns, Eileen O'Connell; Dickson's Vixons, Mindy Broser; D.G., Donna Greenfield; Jeanette's Gravy Girls, Felicia Rub~n­ stein · Wild Women, Ltsa ShalV:itz; Foxy Mama's, Kat~y Stall. All games are played m the evenings. Semifinals are Wednesday, November 4, and finals are Sunday, November 8. Women are ~ncouraged to get out and participate in ~n~ ~nd all intramural actlvttles. Especially, get psyched for broom ball next term! The results of the first rQund of women's volleyball are in. Wild Women defeated Jeanette's Gravy Girls with scores of 5-15, 15-11, 15-11. Fourth Floor West defeated the Flying Nuns 15-13, 4-15, 15-3. D.G. defeated ·Foxy Mama's with scores of 15-7 and 15-10. Come out and watch your friends play in the Field House. A fun time is had by all. Women's Soccer Schedule 10-15 Hamilton 10-17 RPI 10-19 Siena 10-22 RPI 1n.?6 Hartwick 7:00 H 2:00 A 7:00 H 7: OO'H 7:00 H Upcoming Women's Sports Week ending 10-14 Cross Country 10-10 Trinity, Williams Volleyball 10-8 Williams, North Adams 10-10 Russell Sage 10-13 Albany State Field Hockey 10-10 Alumni 10-12 Vassar 10-14 RPI B Tennis 10-9 10-12 10-14 Siena Vassar RPI Complete line of CAPEllO DANSKIN INGA Outfits for the Dancer, Ice & Roller Skater or Exerciser. CGhe @oslumer 444 State St., Sch'dy 374·7442 1:00 H 7:00 A 11:00 H 7:00 H 10:30 H 3:30 A 3:30 A - 3:30 A 4:00 A 3:30 H OPEN DOOR 136 Jay Street Downtown Schenectady .. 346-2719 ' in the court surface and scoring· of the games that the girls were not used to: After the :first loss, however, they won the next two matches and it looks like they will continue to do very well for the rest of the season. The team has been narrowed down to ten people; nine of ~hem play, one is an alternate. The nine who played against Middlebury were: first singles, Julie Miller; second slngles, Rita Lin- denburg, Handy Ribacove, Pam Viglielmo and Liesel Gold~n. The first doubles team con- sisted of Karen Lena and Linda Esposito; the second was Alissa Calabria and Karen Gebhardt. Most of them are freshmen and sophomores, and the outlook for the nex:t few years is excellent. Coach Arakelian, in her first year of coaching Union women'stennis, has made a few changes. She has fewer people playing than last year. Her major goal for the year is for the girls to have more com- petitive thinking and playing. The coach is optimistic, and if all Union College students went to watch the matches, you would see why. ·Looking Fine By TRISH MOR.IARTY In only their second varsity season, the women's cross country team ''looks just fine\ according to John Casale, a perennial follower of the team. The women are able to boast a 3-2 record, much to the chagrin of their male counterparts. The squad has recorded victories over the Coast Guard Academy, Siena College and Oneo'nta State. Union women eclipsed harriers from Siena and Oneonta, finishing in the top slots, precipitating their rout. Their win over Coast Guard this past Saturday caused some muttering by male runners who a$]red, \who runs on a ship anyway?\ The team's two losses have come in races against Hamilton and Middlebury Colleges. The loss to Hamilton was close, 29- 26, but the Middlebury squad simply overpoweTed Union. Coach Russ Ebbets remains encouraged, seeing signs of increased personal im- provement and team unity at · every outing. The preseason was a little shaky as there were only four definite team members, senior Trish Moriarty, and juniors Joan \Put your sweats on\ O'Connor, Inge Stockman and Danielle Cherniak. However, the return of junior Sue Stopera and the addition of two fresh- men, Janice GliddeT and Sherry Weitzen, provided Union with a One of the finest seafood houses in the area: Also featuring veai, beef and fowl. Dinners served from 5 J?m daily and 3 pm on ·sunday. Luncheon serv~d Monday thru . Saturday 11:30 to 2:30. Reservatio.ns suggested, phone 459-5110 team. The women's next race is Saturday afternoon at 12:30 in Central Park. They will be running against Trinity and WLlliarns Colleges. Harrier lnge Stockman Where to go to dinner when the alumni are in town? The Cranberry .Bog. T.nHE ~ ~ cran erryO BOG Restaurant, Inc. 56 Wolf Road Serving Dai!Y & Sunday 459·5110 0 .... 0 J:. a. 1- 11: 0 .... 0 ..t: a. r: 0:: Ed Arnh ' -i '-tJ Byl Cong1 Melina, Union 1 who ha Athlete earned perform over the State. Bruce weighs extremE complet of the I couldn't on twell quarter! two fu stan din! game t weekly: encomp. DivisioiJ Bruce captain! that th4 game a1 total fe~ As a starter, football four yea High Sc Oneida, c - A Me Fn Fr Sa1 Ad Wt at, is spc Fie Ba (p, etc

0 .... 0 .r:: ll. f- ll: CONOOllDI~NSIS, October 8, 1981 Page 19 Cross- C~untry Cooled Off --\-·· ·' ·,. - •,' .-~ >· •• ~~ -_. • > • Ed Amheiter runs towards. the finish line. By DAVE DELLEHUNT The Union College men's cross country team to()k on a tough Hamilton College squad 'last Wednesday, in wbat promised to be a close meet. However, in the long ·run, Hamilton had to<J much depth for the Dutchmen and came out on top 23-35. Ed Arnheiter led Union with a second place finish at 26:00. Dave Dellehunt:took fo11rth with a time of 26:47 and Denny Contois was clocked at 27: 13 on the way to a sevent:h place finish. The rem.aiader of the Dutchmen's top five consisted of John ·Casale at 27:58 · and Mark \Bjorn\ Arienti who ran a 27:58. After the meet, Denny Contois voiced his optimism for Athlete of the Week By HUNTER S.SHARP Congratulations to Bruce Melina, defensive end on the Union College football team, who has been named Miller Athlete of the Week. Bruce earned this honor with his performance in the Union win over the Great Danes of Albany State. Bruce, who is six feet tall and weighs 205 pounds, played an extremely aggressive game. He completely clogged up his side of the field; the Great Danes couldn't get past him. He was in on twenty tackles, sacked the quarterback twice, and causeo two fumbles. For his out- standing performance in . the game he was named to the weekly ECAC honor roll, which encompasses all the schools in Division 11!. Bruce is also one of the co- captains of the team. He feels that the· played an excellent game and he credits the win to total feam effort. As a third year varsity starter, Bruce has plenty ·of football experience. He played four years of football for Oneida High School in his hometown of Oneida, NY, where he was All- SUPPORT League in 1977. He is currently an economics major and a member of the Delta Upsilon fraternity at Union College. Bruce Melina and fellow co- captain Mike Dana, during the post-game festivities, presented Athlete of the Week Bruce Melena head coach Joe Wirth with the game ball. This gesture was in appreciation of the hard work atrd dedication Coach Wirth and the other coaches exhibited in preparing the Dutchmen for the game. UNION Intramural Roundup ATHLETICS Flag Football The first intramural flag football games took place on Tuesday, September 29. The ACHILLES RINK announces Its 1981-1982 Figure Skating Season Monday thru Friday afternoons: l-3 p.m. Free w- U.C. I. D.'s Friday Evenings: 8: 30-lO: 30 p.m. Saturdays & Sundays: 1-2:30 p.m. & 3-4:30 p.m. Admittance: $1.00 w-U.C. I.D.'s While enjoying yourself skating, why not stop in at our Laces & Blades Pro Shop. Laces & Blades is fully equipped with all your current winter sporting equipment featuring: Hockey and Figu.re ~kates, top. brands in Hockey Sticks, Bags, Mouth Guards~ Helmets, Warm Ups ( Poge), Danskin Figure Skating Outfits, Laces, etc. games were played from. 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. on the astroturf field. The Cinderella Kids defeated Houdini's Her()eS 20-6; Chi Psi defeated WebStars 42-0; Psycho Killers defeated Sigma Phi 19- 12; Sigma Chi Gold defeated Delta Chi 38-0; D.U. defeated the 69'ers 31-0; and Phi Sig Red defeated Fiji 18..(), The games take place during the week and on weekends S() go out and support your favorite teams! Mini ..Soccer The scores from the first round of intramural mini soccer are in. Psi U defeated Sigma Chi Blue 7-2. WGM III Fan Club defeated GDI's 2•1. ZBT defeated Springboks 1-0. The Avengers defeated the Wheezers 3-1. Delta Chi defeated Seward Place:3·2. AI.S defeated Head First by forfeit. · Stop by the new athletic field and see who wins the second round of games. the .future by saying, ''We are a young squad primarily com- posed of juniors and it is v.ery good to see capable freshmen like Dave Barrett and Frank Schneider making valuable contributions, aidfng the varsity cause.\ Saturday, the Dutchmen arrived in Vermont to battle not only Middlebury ancl the Coast Guard, but also Middlebury's 4.85rrtile mud-laden course. The day turned out to be a blustery one,. with the temperatures dropping to a chilly 4fi degrees. ·Coast Guard won the triangle meet, Middlebury captured second and Union finished a distant third. Once again the Dutchmen were paced by captain Ed Arnheiter who placed sixth overall with a time of 29:05. Dave Dellehunt was the second Dutchman harrier to cross the line; he placed ninth with a time af 29:16. Rounding out the top five for Union were John Casale (29:59), Mark Arienti (30:56), and Denny Contois (31:04). Trinity College will take on the Dut~hmen this Saturday at 1 p.m., m Central Park. All spectators are welc()me and encouraged to come. \O.T. I I By DAVE RUDEN The second season is over and the third season has just begun. This might sound strange, but this baseball season was anything but normal. It was a year that brought us Fernando Valenzuela, Tim Raines and Hubie Brooks. It was a year in which Nolan Ryan threw a record fifth no-hitter, and Len Barker his first. It was a year that made legitimate (?) playoff contenders out of the New York Mets, Chicago Cubs and Minnesota Twins. However, whim diehard fans scurry back to their Baseball Encyclopedias five years from now all of this will have been forgotten. 1981 will go down as the year of the split season. When the final World Series game is played (hopefully in October) a lot of discussion will take place surrounding a permanent adoption of the split season format. Any such adoption would severely tarnish America's summer game. The fact is that this year's season was a joke; a hopeless attempt of putting life into a strike- ridden season. The facts speak loudly for themselves.· The team with the b~st record in baseball, the Cincinnati Reds, will watch eight other teams vie for the championship. Another team, the St. Louis Cardinals, would have won their division in a normal season. They, too, will watch the playoffs in front of their televisions. Meanwhile, the K.C. Royals, second half winners of the A.L. West, would have finished eleven games out of first place. Attendance was way down for the second part of the season. Besides a lack of interest,. fans obvi<msly didn't feel like paying to watch the Yankees, A's, Phillies and Dodgers coast through their meaningless second half games (these teams finished a corn• bined 16% games out of first place). Without a split season fan interest would have been much higher, for there would have been bonafide pennant races. With the above facts one might wonder why any con- sideration to a split season would be undertaken. The sad .fact is that baseball, like other sports, is a money-making business. If greedy owners see the slightest sign of reaping the benefits (i.e., fattening their wallets), a more heated debate might take place. Thus far most owners who have -spoken out realize the negative impact the • split season has had, and are . trying to seek alternatives that will breathe life into their deflated sport. . This is not meant in any way to take away from the Expos, Astros, Brewers or Royals (the four division winners in the second half). They overcame the adversity of this tragic season and persevered. However, 1981 lacked the honest-to-goodness 162 game pennant race. IndiV'idual title races were rarely publicized, while the divisional standings ceased to be the first place avid fans turned to in their morning papers. The baseball strike was an unfortunate event. Hopefully, it will not end up to be the catalyst· f.lr changing one of this coun- ·: ry's favorite games. Baseball has always flourisl1ed because it proved which. team could ·.vercome the problems caused by a long and tiring season. These abbreviated ''mini- seasons\ proved that the best teams don't always win.· Just ask the Reds or Cardinals. SPORTS HAPPENINGS Oct. 8-15 .. Varsity Football J.V. Football Varsity Soccer J.V. Soccer Cross Country Oct. 10 Colby Oct. 12 at HVCC Oct. 9 Alvmni Oct. 14 at Siena Oct. 9 at Skidmore Oct. 14 Albany Oct. 10 Trinity WELCOME ALUMNI! •

- t_ Page 20 OONOORDIENSIS, O~tober 8, 1981 ·.' ·-,. '\ .. ' . . ' . : ' . . : ' . . ' -. ~ ··. ' . . ' • '' t • '. • • ',. ' •• '1 • • ·., •• Union Upsets 4th Ranked Albany State By ED LYNCH Last Saturday was a par- ticularly fine day in Schenec- tady. The air was crisp, the wind brisk. Y~t. although the sun was out, it didn't shine like the Dutchmen in this October bout. With a startling 10-7 upset of the supposedly \Great\ Danes of Albany State, the Union College football team, under the tutelage of Joe Wirth, soared to its greatest heights in perhaps ten years. One who is ignorant of the day's events, but knowledgeable of Capital-land football, might term this one a fluke. This one was no fluke. Union outran, outhit and out- coached Albany State. The defense was simply awesome. It seems inappropriate to single out anyone, as everyone, each in his own way, is a major component of this swarming unit. One had to only witness an emotional Mark Palomba embracing his joyous team- mates or Bruce Melena surrounded by a block of red- faced, yet agitated fellow teammates, to realize the significance of this victory. It was Palomba who dominated the trenches, forcing the highly touted wishbone to the outside, and an unpleasant rendezvous with Melena. It was the manifestation of the fresh ideas . and winning attitude that Wirth has brought .. to this program. Much of the credit, however, must go to AI Bagnoli. A former · coach at Albany, Bagnoli is now the defensive coordinator of the Dutchmen and one of the very best at what ne does. Union 37. Again, after Harris was intercepted, the Danes began to move. This time Albany's Chick Priore fumbled the football after being ham\ mered at the line of scrimmage. The ball squirted loose and into the hands of freshman Brian Cox. Thanks to an interference. call, Union found themselves at the Albany 37 with 7: 28 to play. Dan Stewart then .hit Kelleher for another first down at the 27. Harris returned and, as he had done before, rolled to his right and dashed past the trailing defenders for a first and goal at the seven. Aided by another, penalty, Union was knocking on the door from the three. With over 4,000 on their feet, Bill Huttner took it over for the winning score. John McKelvey's PAT made it 10-7. Albany got the ball back after an exchange of punts at their own 13. The part·isan throng could sense the upset but watched nervously as Albany marched with seconds remaining. Yet tenaciously the defense threw Tom Pratt to the tury and the bewildered Albany quarterback fumbled the football. Sophomore Tom Plungis quickly recovered to ensure the victory. Union's Tom Plungis after recovering tumble which sealed the victory over AlbaAy. The offense, although not as consistent, was spectacular in its own right. Directed by a pair of precocious freshman quarterbacks, Roger Harris and Dan Stewart, the Dutclunen rolled for 249 yards; 180 more than Albany has surrendered in its three previous victories. Much of this was a result of hard running by Bill Huttner, as he scampered for 104 yards of his own. The excitement began to mount in the fourth quarter as the defense rose to the occasion, stopping the Albany drive at the It was thought that the inexperienced offense would not be able to move the ball against State, forcing the defense to spend the better part of the afternoon on the field. A situation like this would cause them to become weary and susceptible to Albany's attack. Although they did, in fact, spend more time on the turf than they would have preferred, the defense remained unyielding. In fact, the only Albany score came when John Johnson inadvertently dropped a punt deep in Union territory. From there, Albany went in for the score. Ironically, the touchdown was scored by passing the football, an activity which the undiversified Danes rarely and ineffectively attempt to do. In essence, it was the superior coaching that made this victory possible. Few teams have understood and anticipated their opponent like Union did Albany. With an unbalanced line the Dutchmen thwarted anything .and everything th/lt the perplexed Danes c\uld muster. Reading Tom Layden's ex- tensive coverage in the Gazette this past week was particularly interesting. Conspicuously absent was any allusion to . Layden's recent lambasting of the college's athletic program. Layden might have to wait until next fall to lose the color in his cheeks; that is when he picks Union to beat State. The win has consummated the transformation of Union football from a program that was a source of frequent em- barrassment to one that has brought excitement to this otherwise unspirited, business- like campus. The employment of Joe Wirth has been a major asset. Wirth's retention of Bagnoli has beim another. The new field will tremendously improve recruiting and make Union that much more com- petitive in coaxing scholar- athletes to enroll. The schedule is also a particularly good one. With the exception of Ithaca and Tufts, Union plays the very best teams around. 'rhis is not to suggest that ·Union seeks out Division III p()wers, but a Tufts- Union contest would be in- teresting. Both sch<lols are fine academic institutions, ,which have sought to improve their respective football programs in recent years. It would certainly appeal to the 15 Dutchmen from eastern Mass., as well as im- prove Union's recognition factor in the Boston ar;ea. This is a region which has been heavily recruited in the past. Apparently, however, the length of the trip to Boston coupled with the newly discovered shortcut to Washington has made Georgetown much more ap- pealing. Soccer Shows l111proveinent Saturday's game with Colby should be a good <lne. It js a game that Union can and should win, ·particularly with their recentrankings (9thin the east) and a large homecoming crowd. They must, however, play with a great deal of emotion. Reaching last week's intensity wilL be impossible, but a lacklustre Union team will surely lose. The young offense cannot consistently put Jiloints on the board, putting continual pressure on the defense. If they should tire or suffer an injury they will suffer Albany's fate. It is a long season -with many fine teams still to be played. Saturday's will mtLst be kept in By BRIAN SHEA Despite outshooting their opponents by an awesome 44-8 edge the Union College hooters had to settle for only one goal and close out the week with one win and a loss. The Dutchmen now stand 2-2-1 with a game yesterday against Albany. On Wednesday, 9-10, the Hamilton Continentals rolled into Schenectady to face a faster and more skilled Union squad. Despite being outshot 24- 9 Hamilton beat Union 2-0. Union clearly dominated the match but could not connect. Union put the pressure on Hamilton early. Tim Agar took a nice feed from Andy Dreher out of the middle and drilled a hard what from the left side. But Hamilton goalie, Chuck Onofoy, pounded the ball away, and, as it turned out, that would be the toughest save he was forced to make all day. However, Hamilton carne up big on their first shot. At 20:43 Hamilton bad a corner kick that resulted in the game winning goal. The ball was sent high into the penalty area and eluded all Union and Hamilton heads yet found its way to Giovanni Torri's foot which sent it into the corner of the net. Hamilton struck again early in the second half when Torri beat the Union defense, drew goalie George Romas out of the net, then passed across to Tyrone Dumes who neatly placed the ball in the open Union net .. \Union dominated 100 yards of a 120 yard field,\ said Magee, \but we con- tinually failed to score.\ On Saturday, the Booters downed Binghamton 1:.0 in an away match. Once again, Union generated 23 shots on net, yet there was only one goal. Hans Bukow's unassisted goal at 35:05 of the first half proved to be all Union needed to raise its record to 2·2-1. Bukow in- tercepted a pass between a fullback and the goalie and walked right in to score. Magee cited the strong defensive effort · of Andy Dreher, Larry Anastasi and Brian Shea as the way to o victory. ] Senior goalie George Romas a. recorded his second· shutout of ..,: the season. Said Magee, \A few ~ more wins and we'll be off and rolling.\ The Booters face the alumni on Friday at 8 p.m. on the turf. Union attempts to keep the ball in play. perspective. The Dutchmen are not a great football team, they are, howevilr, a good one, capable of winning most, if not all, their football games. But lest objectivity detract from the e:l'{citement and much deserved congratulations, 'l will end here. ~ It truly was a helluva football game. Union ranked ninth in Lambert Bowl Union's unbeaten football team received a No. 9 ranking in the season's first Lambert Bowl balloting for Eastern Division III schools. It is the first time that the Dutchmen have ever been ranked. Joe Wirth's Dutchmen, currently 2-0-1, received the ranking following last Satur- day's 10-7 victory over Albany State. Albany had been ranked No. 4 nationally among Division III schools and had a 3-0 record prior to Union's win. For Union, it is the first time since its undefeated team of 1949 that it has gone unbeaten through its initial three games. The ratings, with records in parenthesis: 1. Alfred ( 4-o); 2. Gettysburg ( 4-0); 3. Widener (Hl); 4. Franklin and Marshall (3-0) 5. Buffalo (4-0); 6. Montclair State (4-0); 7. Westminster (3-0); 8. WPI (3-0); 9. UNION COLLEGE (2..()-1); and tied for 10th Albany State (3al) and Tufts ( 1-0-1) . Score by periods Albany St. o o 7 o 7 Union 3 0 0 7 10 U--McKelvey, 34 field goal. A--McGuire, 3 P.ass from Pratt (Lincoln kick). U--Huttner, 3 ruh (McKelvey ~ick). Statistics Albany 12 58-198 3B 5-12-0 94 10-35.9 2 7-97 First downs\t~­ Rushes-,yds. Passing-yds. Passes Returns yds. Punts ave. Fmbls. lost Penalties yds. Union 11 50·193 56 8-16·2 54 8-38.0 1 B-45 Concordiensis pick this week UNION -&Y2· Colby I.. <!I c: I.. <!I ....1 <!I > QJ ..... Vl >- .!l 0 .... 0 .!: a. - ·- R I 'I h01 fra ha, no I the its wh COI I ext the we ex1 Un Pr tin tYI tin OVI sta wa die clei ga: bu: fig cl~ olcJ sue ifl tYI ' w~ ch tm of n c Sl d l1 Sl c ~ 0: n n

I... Ql c I... Ql ....1 Ql > Ql .... Vl >. .l) 1 0 +- 0 .c ll. 1877 VoL l l 1,- No. 4 October 15, 1981 .Forum Approves Budget :By EDWARD ALBRO The Student Forum, which met this Monday in Strauss Lounge, was occupied largely with the discussion and final approval of this year's student activities budget. Also on the agenda w:ere reports from the Academic Affairs Council ( AAC), Student Activities Council (SAC), and Committee on Committees ( COC}, and discussions of publication of Forum minutes and agenda. Barry Watkins, Campus Fire Marshall The meeting began with a report by Tax Committee Chainnan Pete McCaffrey of the budget and the way in which it was arrived at. He opened by stating that he did feel that the cJ,Its made in individual groups' Room Extin~uishers· are Installed: ,# Fire Safety • IS Improved By NAOMI BLANK This year all independent housing 'and dependent fraternities on Union's campus have been provided with new non-toxic flre~ extinguishers. In these ouildings every room has its own all-purpose extinguisher which contains a powder able to combat all classes of fires. In past years, two large fire extinguishers were located in the hall of the dorms. \These were succeptible to misuse,\ explained Barry· Watkins, Union's Fire Marshall. Previously, the . two ex- tinguishers combatt~d different types of fires. The water ex- tinguisher provided protection over class \A\ fires, those started from paper, wood, or in wastebaskets. The carbon dioxide extinguisher handled class \B\ fires, from grease, gasoline, or fires from com- bustible substances. This fire fighting device also puts out class \C\ electrical fires. The old extinguishers would -only succeed in controlling the fires if used on the appropriate class type. \The ~ew extinguishers,\ Watkins stated, \contain a dry chemical powder which is non· toxic and will combat all types of (A, B, C) fires.\ A crucial -Elections . Cancelled Due to_ the fact that only one nominating ~~tition for Junior Class Representative was submitted by the appropriate deadline, the Junior Class Representative Election scheduled for Oct. 16 is can- celled. The position will go to Mary Martin, the only member of the Junior Class who sub- mitted completely valid nominat~ng petition. Joe Cristofaro Elections Comm. Chairman decision as to~ which ex- tinguisher is required must no longer be made. ''These smaller extinguishers will provide as much or more protection than the large water or carbon dioxide extinguishers had,\ Watkins added. It is a requirement of the National Fire Protection Association that fire extinguishers are present in each building, fifty feet apart. With the placement of the new extinguishers in each roorn, \We have extended coverage well beyo_nd the Association's requirements/' noted Watkins. The new extinguisher has a gauge to determine whether or not it has been fired. The old devices had to be weighed to check if discharging had oc- curred. The new extinguishers will be checked three times a year, at the end of each term. In addition to the placing of the new extinguishers in the rooms, the fine for tampering with the devices has increased from $25 to $50. Mr. Watkins noted that ''the move (of the extinguishers) into the rooms and the increase in fines are to demonstrate how important it is to not have the extinguishers tampered with. \ He added that \the fines won't be levied as much as a punitive measure as to emphasize-the importance of the extinguishers remaining intact. If there is a fire,\ said Watkins, \it could save someone's life.\ If an extinguisher has been discharged or is missing from the room, the tampering fine will be levied. The owners are now responsible and they are the ones who will be fined should tampering be noted upon inspection. In this way, entire floors will no longer be fined as a result of abusing the ex- tinguishers. According · to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the new ex- tinguisher is rated as a non- toxic irritant whose powder could not produce a health hazzard. Soap and water can remove all effects if the powder gets on the skin. Previously, the carbon dioxide extinguisl)ers co1Jld cause frostbite if its contents got into orie's skin. The water extinguishers were potentially injurious if anything electric was present upon its Continued on page 2 ':\ '•t;· The wmning float for Homecoming '81 on the theme ''Discovering Union'' was designed and constructed by members from South and Richmond dorms. They tied in the Idea of discovering Union with ' the fact that it was Columbus Day Weekend. President Morris presented South R.A. Pete Wool (who was dressed as Columbus) with the award during halftime of the Homecoming football game. budgets were justified. McCaffrey said the committee had taken a hard line approach but that later requests for funds would be considered if they were truly necessary. Finally, he recommended that the forwn accept the budget as a whole, or not at all. Various Forum members questioned McCaffrey on several organizations who received much less funding than they requested. These groups included the Black and Latin Student Alliance, the Men's Glee Club, the Pre-Law Society, and the Speaker's Forum. By far the most discussion centered on the Speaker's Forum, which requested $22,290 and were given $11,690. Chairman McCaffrey explained the cut by saying that the group was en- couraged by the Committee to raise ticket prices and step 'Up efforts to attract an off-campus audience. F-orum members Will Lloyd and Karen Schick ex- pressed their feeling that the group should follow the opposite policy, lowering ticket prices in order to fill the audience and provide a forum for expression and instruction on campus. It was finally decided, however, that the money budgeted was correct in either case and Clubs (in aJpbabetical order) Amnesty International Big BrotherS-Big Sisters Biology Club Black & Latin Student All. Cabaret Ceteris Paribus Cheerleaders Chemistry Club Chess Club Circle K Club Coffeehouse Concert Committee Concordiensis Curling Club Dance Club Fencing Club Film Committee Frisbee Club Garnet Gay Discussion Group Idol Magazine Intellectual Cabaret International Student All. International Relations Jazz Ensemble Men's Glee Club Mountebanks Outing Club Rugby Club Philosophy Forum Photography Club Political Forum Pre-Health Society Pre-Law Society Ski Club-Ski Team Social Committee+ Stone Boat Club Speaker's Forum Student Environment All. Student Forum Union College Concert Band Union Views Women's GleeClub Women's Network WRUC W2UC Volleyball Club Yacht Racing Assoc. + Fall Term expenses only procedures could be decided on by Speaker's Formn members. In the end, the budget was .approved unanimously, with no abstentions. In an interview following the meeting McCaffrey and Tax Committee member Joe Laurin expanded on their report to the Forum. They said the com- mittee had attempted to cut out unnecessary items. \We've given the groups the amount we think they need,\ McCaffrey said; but stressed that if the committee had made a mistake and a group could not survive, then they should not be hesitant to return for more funding. He revealed that the Activities fund contained a total of ap- proximately $200,000, which after deducting the present budget and Winter and Spring Social Committee budgets, left a contingency fund of ap- proximately $21,000. When asked about the discrepancies between funds requested and granted by certain groups, Laurin ex- plained that the reasons varied. In some cases, groups did not record income properly, and in others, events were bp.!lg~ted which fell outside the group's constitution. In discussing the size of the activities fee, Continued on page 2 Finance Committee Recommendation $ 695 3875 1034 2305 2435 735 150 240 391 433 3290 23,310 14,984 302 2660 332 10,365 610 9275 610 5715 890 1385 3083 1610 9951 1000 3072 2393 771 1160 1605 500 195 2613 4450 1048 11,690 824 660 1850 3875 6620 1430 16,590 577 368 1290 TOTAL: $165,246

OONCORDIENBIB, OctQber 16, 1981 Policy Redefined . Baby Bottle Battle By PAUL GROSSMAN Almost imffiediately after the Party Policy was printed in the October 1st issue of Con- cordiensls,. students began responding in what seemed to be unanimously negative ways. Many students were quick to see the policy as an in- fringement on their \rights'; to party. The policy was presented without explanation. Acting Dean of Students Don Spring was not ready for such a reaction from many students and was more than willing to explain the most controversial aspects of the policy. Dean Spring explained the reason for registration of parties, \Registration is simply to insure that a proper level of security is available. If there are going to be eighteen parties next weekend, I want to give security a chance to provide for extra coverage.\ The Dean feels that there should be more communication and organization between the various party-g.iving faetions on campus. He has stated that, \Fraternity leadership is not as cohesive, effective, nor as organized as it might be.\ \Greek Week,\ it seems, is an effort 'to bring some kind of order and structure to party giving this fall. The topic of fines is one that has been of much concern to many fraternities. They feel that the fines may be too steep. The Dean explained that Security issues many small fines and that, \They (Security) have been nickeled and dimed to death in the process of issuing fines.\ \If there are violations, then we must show that we're not kidding. I'm willing to make tllat statement. The fines should make a dent.\ At least one member of the Student Affairs Committee (SAC) was upset because the policy was announced without their prior knowledge. The Dean explained that the policy was not a new one and he added, \I am willing to discuss any recommendations that the SAC may have. Nothing about the policy is sacred.\ Dean Spring cited unpleasant incidents at parties last spring, as well as some incidents that have occurred this term, as a reason for announcing the policy. \It's not that there's anything new about the policy, but we're responsible for the students, and we want students to be responsible for themselves.\ Incidents of students disrupting parties, both last year and this year, are of particular concern to the acting Dean. ''When you perceive interpersonal aggression, that's an infringement on other ~tudent's rights and privileges.\ In light of the potential lack of control that. can result when there are large parties occurring simultaneously, Dean Spring feels that some· element of control must be imposed. The . Dean stressed that the. policy was in no way intended to prevent anyone on campus from having parties when they want to. Dean Spring, a well trained psychologist,. is aware of the need for students to party; He summarized his intent and feeling on the issue in two simple sentences, \My role is not to restrict parties. I like to party.\ By RACHEL I. MANDEL, ' Fortune magazine called them \Marxists marching under the banner of Christ.\ They are in a battle against the largest multinational food processor in the world. They are INFACT (Infant Formula Action Coalition), and are currently .sponsoring the Nestle boycott, putting financial pressure on the company to curb the spread of \bottle- baby\ disease in third world developing nations. INFACT has a following around the world, and all over Union College. This past Monday, ap- proximately 75 students turned out to hear the national rally coordinator of INF AC'I, Scott Sommer, speak about the boycott and the organization's activities. Mr. Sommer began the,. session by showing a film called \Bottle Babies\ which explains the situation in Kenya, and the Kenyatta National HospitaL Kenya is typical of many of the countries that companies like Nestle serve with their products. The film was very explicit in showing the symp- toms of the disease, and its dramatic effects on the health of these infants. Malnutrition is usually the cause of death. The disease is promoted by the unsanitary conditions in which the formula is prepared. The mothers are unable to sterilize the bottles properly. Due to the economic environment, the mothers usually have to ·dilute the formula to stretch the family budget, depriving the baby of essential substenance. Afterwards, Sommer spoke about the current boycott and related some . appropriate stories. One such story outlined how Nestle stated that it did not sell products where the inhabitants were incapable of using. them properly. He then explained how in a certain country, the company had to fly a Cessna plane into the bush in order to make the delivery. He corrunented on how deliberate an act this was, and how Nestle was lying and should be held accountable for their actions. It is an ''issue of .corporate responsibility.\ More specifically,. the charges against companies like Nestle include promoting products regardless of the consequences. They give out free samples, and urge the mothers to spend a great por- tion of their monthly wages on the product (one third to· one half). These women, who need an economical, easHy ac .. cessible, fresh and nutritious ·form of food, are pe1iect can- didates to breast feed. Unfor- tunately, they are very susceptible to the influences oftthe media and advertising, and the erroneous promise of healthier and happier babies. Therefore, they do not breast feed, but bottle feed and promote malnutrition in their own children. INF ACT is promoting a raJ:ly to be held on Saturday, October 31. There will be transportation fromSchenectadyto the rally in White Plains. Ticket~ can be bought bere at Union. For more infonnation you can contact INF ACT in Albany, or Amy· Edwards at 37 4-5543. ; Please help keep our campus. clean. Post ·notices on designated ·notice boards only. Avoid windows, wall.s, doors, pi liars., etc. Please use garbage receptacles located on campus. student actl I.. d) t/) Budget Approved Continued from page 1 McCaffrey said that whether or not the fee would be changed would depend on whether groups could live on the money budgeted. ''If they can live on this without difficulty, the tendency may be to keep it the same. Next, the Scuba Club, which was not granted funding in the budget, brought its appeal to the Forum. Club president Qweight Pakan was questioned about the group's insurance situation, expenses, and membership. He satisfied the Forum that the expense of the club was not excessive &llld that there existed broad interest in the activity. However, the insurance question could not be resolved and so the matter of funding was tabled· until next week; The AAC report centered mostly on the continuing in- vestigation into the position of Fire Safety Continued from page l firing. Yet ''the powder can damage electronic equipment if allowed to sit on the components for any length of time,\ Watkins warned. \This is because the powder attracts moisture from the air and the combination of the powder and the moisture will cause damage to the components.\ · This IS the first time such a program has been put into ef- fect. Other campuses are already interested as to the result of the endeavor. The . proper procedure to follow if a fire occurs is explained in the Union College Student Hand- book. In addition, Resident Advisor have been given a pamphlet containing further fire information. American Studies at Union. The SAC reported on plans to tighten up the policy for on-campus parties. The COC reported that all committee applications had been received and the selection process has now be.gun. On the agenda for next week are a final decision on Scuba Club funding, an investigation into Moutebanks. claims for the use of Stage two, and a discussion of publishing of Forum minutes and agenda. EARN OV:ER $800- A. MONTH RIGHT THROUGH YOUR SEN,IOR YEAR If you're a junior or senior majoring in engineering, math, physics or chemistry: the Ncfvy has a program you should know about. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Collegiate Program and if you qualify, you can earn more than $800 a month right through your senior yeaf:'. Then after· 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you'll get an additional year of advanced technical education. This would cost thousands in a civilian scho<ll, but in the Navy, we pay you. It isn't easy. Ther are fewer than 400 openings and only one of every six applicants wH I be selected. But if you make it, you'll 11ave unequaled hands-on responsibility, a salary of more than $40,000 in four years, and gllt-e_dged qualifications for jobs both in tf:le Navy .and out. Send in the coupon, talk to the Navy representative on campus 28, October, 1981, or call the Nuclear Program Manager collect at (518) 462-6199. The l\lavy Nuclear Program--Not only can it help you complete college, It can be the start of an exciting careef\. Last ,-----------------------------1 1 Navy Officer Programs 1 O'Brien Federal Bldg. 1 Albany, NY 12207 1 Yes, I'd like more information on the NUPOC Program. 1 Name.·· . . . . . . . , 1 First (Please Print) I Address-------------~--------------------------~------ : City ____ ...._ ____________ _ I State _______________ ...._ ___ zip- 1 1 Age College-Univ ____________ _ I Graduation Date, _____ Grade Point _____ _ 1 Major.Minor Phone Number------- 1 (Area Code) 1 .. ....,_ ------------ ...... - ---~- ... - .... __ ----...,. ___ , NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONS·IBlLITY FAST. . . 0 I.. 'Xl u >- \0 c: ~ >- ..c 0 - 0 s::. 0. ,;.,( .. I ::c - 0 u (/') ..., ~ 0 +- 0 f ~ I J \i } iJ s E 0 r :E ~ Ii r i1 s: 'VI ~ tl 0 tl u ii v tJ p I: l:J A ir g~ d a s. b tl aJ rE dj rE D Is fil di t •\ . \ •\ \ . 2 : :·.1 ' . . ,. ~ ' . t,:_l ; t;•; • · fe\ . '~ •\ ..l 'I , I . .f I ' I I . I l.

OONCORDIENSIS, October 16, 1981 Policy Redefined ,Baby Bottle Battle By PAUL GROSSMAN Almost inunediately after the Party Policy was printed in the October 1st issue of Con- cordiensis, students began responding in what seemed to be unanimously negative ways. Many students were quick to see the policy as an in- fringement on their \rights\ to party. The policy was presented without explanation. Acting Dean of Students Don Spring was not ready for such a reaction from many students and was more than willing to explain the most controversiai aspects of the policy. Dean Spring explained the reason for registration of parties, \Registration is simply to insure that a proper level of security is available. If there are going to be eighteen parties next weekend, I want to give security a chance to provide for extra coverage.\ The Dean feels that there should be more communication and organization between the various party-giving factions on campus. He has stated that, \Fraternity leadership is not as cohesive, effective, nor as organized as it might be.\ \Greek Week,\ it seems, is an effort· to bring some kind of order and structure to party giving this fall. The topic of fines is one that has been of much concern to many fraternities. They feel that the fines may be too steep. The Dean explained that Security issues many small fines and that, \They (Security) have been nickeled and dimed to death in the process of issuing fines.\ \If there are violations, then we must show that we're not kidding. I'm willing to make that statement. The fines should make a dent.\ At least one member of the Student Affairs Committee (SAC) was upset because the policy was announced without their prior knowledge. The Dean explained that the policy was not a new one and he added, \I am willing to discuss any recommendations that the SAC may have. Nothing about the policy is sacred.\ Dean Spring cited unpleasant incidents at parties last spring, as well as some incidents that have occurred this term, as a reason for announcing the policy. \It's not that there's anything new about the policy, but we're responsible for the students, and we want students to be responsible for themselves.\ Incidents of students disrupting parties, beth last year and this year, are of particular concern to the acting Dean. ''When you perceive interpersonal aggression, that's an infringement on other student's rights and privileges.\ In light of the potential lack of control that can result when there are large parties occurring simultaneously, Dean Spring feels that some element of control must be imposed. The Dean stressed that the policy was in no way intended to prevent anyone on campus from having parties when they want to. Dean Spring, a well trained psychologist, is aware of the need for students to party. He summarized his intent and feeling on the issue in two simple sentences, \My role is not to restrict parties. I like to party.\ By RACHEL I. MANDEL Fortune magazine called them ''Marxists marching under the banner of Christ.\ They are in a battle against the largest multinational food prGcessor in the world. They are INF ACT (Infant Formula Action Coalition), and are currently sponsoring the Nestle boycott, putting financial pressure on the company to curb the spread of \bottle· baby\ disease in third world developing nations. INF ACT has a following around the world, and all over Union College. This past Monday, ap- proximately 75 students turned out to hear the national rally coordinator of INF ACT, Scott Sommer, speak about the boycott and the organization's activities. Mr. Sommer began the, session by showing a film called \Bottle Babies\ which explains the situation in Kenya, and the Kenyatta National Hospital. Kenya is typical of many of the countries that companies like Nestle serve with their products. The film was very explicit in showing the symp- toms of the disease, and its dramatic effects on the health of these infants. Malnutrition is usually the cause of death. The disease is promoted by the unsanitary conditions in which the formula is prepared. The mothers are unable to sterilize the bottles properly. Due to the economic environment, the mothers usually have to dilute the formula to stretch the family budget, depriving the baby of essential substenance. Afterwards, Sommer spoke about the current boycott and related some appropriate stories. One such story outlined how Nestle stated that it did not sell products where the inhabitants were incapable of using them properly. He then explained how in a certain country, the company had to fly a Cessna plane into the bush in order to make the delivery. He commented 011 how deliberate an act this was, and how Nestle was lying and should be held accountable for their actions. n is an \issue of corporate responsibility.\ More specifically, the charges against companies like Nestle include promoting products regardless of the consequences. They give out free samples, and urge the mothers to spend a great por- tion of their monthly wages on the product (one third to one half). These women, who need an economical, easily ac- cessible, fresh and nutritious ·form of food, are perfect can- didates to breast feed. Unfor- tunately, they are very susceptible to the influences oftthe media and advertising, and the erroneous promise ~Jf healthier and happier babies. Therefore, they do not breast feed, but bottle feed and promote malnutrition in their own children. INF ACT is promoting a rally to be held on Saturday, October 31. There will be transportation from Schenectady to the rally in White Plains. Tickets can be bought here at Union. For more information you can contact INFACT in Albany, or Amy Edwards at 374-5543. Please help keep our campus. clean. Post notices on designated notice boards only. Avoid windows, walls, doors, pillars, etc. Please use garbage receptacles located on campus. Budget Approved Continued from page 1 McCaffrey said that whether or not the fee would be changed would depend on whether groups could live on the money budgeted. \If they can live on this without difficulty, the tendency may be to keep it the same. Next, the Scuba Club, which was not granted funding in the budget, brought its appeal to the Forum. Club president Dweight Pakan was questioned about the group's insurance situation, expenses, and membership. He satisfied the Forum that the expense of the club was not excessive <m.d that there existed broad interest in the activity. However, the insurance question could not be resolved and so the matter of funding was tabled- until next week. The AAC report centered mostly on the continuing in- vestigation into the position of Fire Safety Continued from page 1 firing. Yet \the powder can damage electronic equipment if allowed to sit on the components for any length of time,\ Watkins warned. \This is because the powder attracts moisture from the air and the combination of the powder and the moisture will cause damage to the components.\ This IS the first time such a program has been put into ef- fect. Other campuses are already interested as to the result of the endeavor. The proper procedure to follow if a fire occurs is explained in the Union College Student Hand- book. In addition, Resident Advisor have been given a pamphlet containing further fire information. American Studies at Union. The SAC reported on plans to tighten up the policy for on-campus parties. The COC reported that all committee applications had been received and the selection process has now begun. I i ~,/ ~. t . '-~~ .~ On the agenda for next week are a final decision on Scuba Club funding, an investigation into Moutebanks claims for the use of Stage · two, and a discussion of publishing of Forwn minutes and agenda. In case you haven·r noucea, cons1rucuon of fhe College Center Box Office is now com- plete. Tickets for all student activities-· cabaret, films, concerts, etc., will be available only at the box office on the first rloor or 1....arneg1e Hall. :,rudents Will no longer be able to purchase tickets at\the door prior to . the event. In addition to supplying this ser- · vice, game room supplies and sound equip. ment may be rented at the box office as well. EARN OVER $800 A MONTH RIGHT THROUGH YOUR SENIOR YEAR If you're a junior or senior majoring in engineering, math, physics or chemistry the Navy has a program you should kr:~ow about. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Collegiate Program and if you qualify, you can earn more than $800 a month right through your senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you'll get an additional year of advanced technical education. This would cost thousands in a civil ian school, but in the Navy, we pay you. It isn't easy. Ther are fewer than 400 openings and only one of every six applicants will be selected. But if you make it, you'll have unequaled hands-on responsibility, a salary of more than $40,000 in fou.r years, and gilt-e.dged qualifications for jobs both in the Navy and out. Send in the coupon, talk to the Navy representative on campus 28, October, 1981, or call the Nuclear Program Manager collect at (518) 462-6199. The Navy Nuclear Program--Not only can it he I p you complete college, it can be the start of an exciting careet;\. ------------------~----------1 Navy Officer Programs 1 O'Brien Federal Bldg. 1 . Albany, NY 12207 J Yes, I'd like more information on the NU POC Program. 1 Name ; First (Please Print) Last 1 Address I 0~ : ~~ z I ip-. Age College-Univ 1 Graduation ·Date . Grade Point I I Major-Minor Phone Number 1 (Area Code) 1 ~---------------~---~~----~---· NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. >- ..a 0 .... 0 i .. I , ... -~ :r: .... - 8 IJ) .., >- .0 0 0 .s::. Q. d1 a S: h u aJ rE di rE u Is n d.i ,- l ) ~ ' \ 2 ~ .J! ·r . [I l I I I I, I I I I L.

·.OONOOBDIEN8IS 1 Octobef\ 16~ 198J feature Hei·hal Teas: · A Lethal Brew .... 0 u V) ...., ~ o. a· if Members of the Outing Club (see article below) By .PROFESSOR HELENA BffiECKA For many centuries herbs have been used as ·remedies against a great variety of diseases, including cancer, in indigenous medicine on both hemispheres. In most cases the bealing action of the herbs has been due to the presence of substances ·called alkaloids (\alkali-like'' ·basic, bitter). Mid-East Relations: ' The number of known alkaleids exceeds 6000 and many of them are used as drugs in modern medicine. However, very many of these substances can also be toxic to animals and human beings. Unsaturated pyrroUzidine alkaloids are cens!dered to be the most dangerous because their toxic ef~~ts, incluili,ng car- Prof. Speaks Out whether the AWACS pose a How· Elo you think Mubarek. e~~enieity, are of a chronic, ·threat tOl Israeli security or fits into thls? pf:ogress•v,e character; they By 1\.MELIA A.. TERHUNE I'n light of the recent whether our security would; be resemble: ill this. respect toxins assas~ination of Egyptian comprom1sed if the AWAC~ '\.W~ don't know much. about f()rn;tecUy fuqgi:rather Ulan the President Anwar el-Sadat, the were to falHnto t!nemy hands. Mu-Qarek. Egyptian polltics mam bo~y of alkaloids. TlniS,. proposed sale of AWAC ·sur- Wha.t is reallY' at stake here is tends to be cut-throat~ so he had theae, substances may prroc;tuce veillance aircraft to Saudi wbe_ther American policy· in the i 1 c.Mnlcal symptoms, after long. A b' d h al to ma ntain a . ow .profile, But ra 1a, an . t · e' gener unrest Mi~~East is going to-·continue·t& this much, we• do Jroo.w~ to sur- te~ .exposure. , in the Midtne East, a Political be' focused ex~lttsiv-ety on . vive fie had. to be-:mitarrt.\ .oQvf:)'·, 150 pyr.l\oij.zidine: Science professor, Stephen· · tsrael, or. whether· it also acl'o alk..~;lotds are known. They were Pe1l:etiere, was a. s.~. d his co·mo· ·dat\\' •s.e· Arab states. · ·fo ... ::~- m· ~- 1 y t .. the· ea· -n•es \\ n• The. se ar,e;. the view~ Qf tqlU'J; .. ·\\q. \'• 1 ' U$J<¥o . opinion ()n the Unitec:f.'States' .. k'A&·fm:tne·deathof8ad:it... ·~ t:::l)o·a.t o. s U ~ e ~ t t f b·e role ~. the Mid-East. Prot. his·death istied:Q'p Wlth,the $81¢ · PJro£eS3Ql'~ Pelletiere, and in no. S~aeclou.~Q~ )•;.: Leggm.ilf.osae Pelletfere: ·~Ever sinee..tb.e1913' 'ofl-AWACS'in·tbis way:\ Siutat's. Wf;tJ{~~ the :: {!lf~~~~;&'. droteb~tfa), .·. apd war between ~ Ar•bs-\'lnd the &re~t· iqsig&t:\' was that'' ~rit . replies· . .,O~lMl.ceae:. ( a.~l -~~·~:- TsfaeJis1 the ~ni~ S.~tes ftas ¢1llt,J.<f~rilfs~tion to;1Ji&·~tp: ol' .Min¥ '.PY,l1.fQb~l&ne·be&r1ng realitewt!Jat ~$·PFlor.ittes·llaV0 Israeli:· eoofti¢\.· .\lflless;·:·ttte- · :· ~ftl:atet· titill> used as.-~: b~en ,, .m1spl~~: . Tb~ · l'f;&tt · , t1mte~St~-act~elsr: ~v:~lvtl'd: _. . · • · · · .. ., · · · e.g. Senecio, Crotolaria, Tus.silago, Heliotropium, Symphytum, etc. Symphytum x uplandicum (Russian comfrey) is also consumed by humans in salads or as a beverage. In the U.S.A. Crotolaria- spectabilis (rattlebox), Senacio jacobaea (tansy ragword), Senecio longllobus (threadleaf groundsel), Senecio vulgaris cammon tansy or common groundsel), Symphytum of- fieinale (comfrey), Amsickia intermedia ( fidleneck), and several Heliotropium species are found in the southern and western states. All these species contain toxic alkaloids. Comfrey is w1idely used as a herbal tea in Europe and America. Senecio species have also been found in herb tea mixh1res. in the U.S.A. two fatalies reported were due to consumption of Senecio lougilobus as a medicinal herb. .Not only -plants. containing pyrrolizidine alkall)ids can be toxic. There are known cases of poisoningJ'elated t& the use of . Datura stramouium, pen ... ·nyroyal, pokewee-d, Lobelia·, bwock, aloes, senna, buekthorn, and· others; E:l.tiior's Note: Interested pe~$0J)S sh~nlft check. tbe · ingredient~ listed on thew te.!f:· bQ~s to, ~eerwhettieu rw· not one of the ·aforementmn~d. harlllfut · species of tea, ia~ jJleluded; - ~ sb3wed Am~~n;<.lea.~·-tnat '7'fnr ·f.~e a · sotufJ61\: $ . · : · ~.ha;vev~tnt@'~~tp;the· ·thet~ ·a, .. t&:~tift*' ~tt~··· , .. , _·,::\.';:~.'··~~;-· .. :~' .. ,. T·· · · .. ,.,:. ;~1. - - 1 . ~~~~trwnif~~re. ~d·. md,. at~~ alhtre;:Ar~lf:stat!~~iit\ . . . ..... If , .. · . • · '. ~ Fa.·.-~ .·~y.~.CIS · .. ·: th~· qoWli; We: IJ~10 ~eg~p . ()~~· t'Q m~te a1pei,lCe j,t()'e\!!~ \~ IC~ '< · ' U. • : , ~ ·• • • • • our supp~y of'·~l. ,!fJle.!e~y of ''in· whli;;~ ·the: Unifed' ·StateS/·· . ·By$'At1I..~~JU.EY ~a~k.ii;(g, canoe~~~-e-a~mg. rock and ice climbing, and· th~. Russians ~to MgbNIIstan would' become thoroughly .m,. • · ·. ~ · . . . . · . - ·. · sk~ · hang-gluiing, · rrek nang-gli:di:i'lg, the 'leader must. t.Ul(le:r.scor~ddblS message..._ .. · volved. Now-~Atab-state&are . ~ Outing Club~ he~ &y artd fue :elini~, biking; . ami ·nave the necessacy experience ~ 1 '~0'i, e;ver. ~ince 1~3, an~ waitins. t~ .·~~· w,het~t' the>.·_;:l_e~it-<J~s.on~ is;. l·t 00-.~·- cr.ee~~~q~·~g. t~trips·.·:.:·fltldlf\lalifieatten~\asfeitbythe mt~~~IY sine~ 1~ ~~ ;·~.. · tJ~it~Sta•~~llg~deWR:·th-e>~~ :M\t:·t~.~IUJ'U ·J~r • ~~~UJ(ld for,. -w~endS~· · ··clnboffieers. . <~., . ·. v!~n. et Afgbarlist~~)'l; ·.-th~ · line.tp~Dring:~;i!lst pea.ee t~ 1/he. :.~re: ~~- V;ro~ 'llh~ ~f:: ~.m ~· . ~at,\o{ls/~andc vario$ we.f.: . - · W.nt~StatesMs·bee~feymg~G M~East-.'If:w.e .. ~. ~S: ~ or,~ .~~t\ltoutd®~~·--a~'S(~~~- T , ,~pe .... DM~ lfy .. · p.ut,di~t~e-~t~ee.~u.ts:elt. ~d.l. _ ~ ~afltas.an ex.e-· . .t _'.a~:.· . \ ~~ffl)e· ag~a«~t' ·~~s·~~· ~oft~~tufl.,~ ·- - ~:~t have- all'~ ~$.a~J, a~W...,.U:evelo_p\_$:~cmg •. tlte\·~~·~eSsi:thei\;ml -~-·~ .. ;~or. ~ ... , :.ih.~~s !Jle.· .,~1~-.e,·speeia~b;e:U?e~llt&~ .. ~~ ,~pderta~ed·: by< en. r.elat1eashiR$' WJ'tlt;._one..oJ;. ;mnre· ~ Arabtst~m~'lr gi.ve' t)Jf:'~-'Wf .,,..f~ing t~~~~~ ~ikmg, strdt~~~s~·~~'Winter-backMt~lii!JJ,: U:Jil$utfStie ~b'eri· m the- past· Arab states .. 'Dhis. IS th&ttOiltext ·an4 W:&\viW·n~ve losniltor· Ci~t·~~·,~ ::: .. : · . ·: >\' : ·i,.ri:'Z;' . ·· . -~.:-_.._.·:. .\' ·. · ·:_ ·~ ~. - ··fe~weakS·a~~ days.~ke to t~e m-wtw::h:,.tb.e AWACS.· sale· bas·· ie.v.~~~e~'W-ltlr't~· ma1S$;:F6i''. ·E·· ·l: ··~.: ~;trQ(J.:i:c··~! \: ~~~~·-·d· :.. ·. , · . . (,·~· ~, .A<ttror.r«~.c~$V ~~v1~g. 1n got tQ.be vlewed .. · · • that1tea8en~iVehaie!tEi:~patt . \··.l~e~:f:'f · .: 1 - 1 · · .. . v:·:~: · : , ,. . . . Clarksyule:, a. bike tr1p. te . • r~~e s,ate l'~r.ese~t&a·p~olicy, ·:Mubarek as tJ1e rel>teseitfativ~ · -. •. · , ·.'i,. ·; ·, .;: ,.· • • • · ~arth~ ~.Vmeyard, ·and h~g de.eiS~O!l>· a d~~lSlOn~ C~lyate . _,f . t~· ·Egyptian,. gov~eJ)-~ D'fl.· aweli.Y~'MOQSB.·. .. . .ti~V:ung . the 'Utoftstrgsity .. . m ijle. ~lglJ; Peaks· ~ear Lak,-e a sp~Cial relatio~Ship with ~e · the Egyptian rtationJ and as the ~, armtnd.\' _. Pla~id. T~ese t~1ps. were Saudi::; h. Y fostermg. close ties;. Arab partner, in. the peace Di'~ . t.. ~. th . D d ·rnn\'\' m·or· ·e \'on•P.enti'ona· l· si·. ~e,,· . reeelved With pgsltlve fe~d- b tw ·1 t d · . ·. 1:1'. ·you uxar · · e new · ea ~.t•\\ \' .. u• back The club has a substantial e . een our ml 1 ary an process.\ · · 1..,.,· ... Wh t? \· ki'd there \re· th.e bast'·c .tape.· · · · · · thetrs. The Israelis realize that a ,~.:~um! . · · a · ~re you - \\ amount of eqmpment which IS any development of a special Why must the United States ding? You don't have a stereo? recorders. These relics from the· free for members to borrow. relationship with saudi Arabia be involved in the· peace Has this embarrassing scene age before micro-chips are the No~-members may rent the diminishes the special process? \The .Arabs realize ever }lappened to you? Have· kinds of things you can pick up eqmpment at 5 percent of the relationsWp. they have with the that there can be no ~olution you ever stammered over those af a ~ank for a meag~r $5~0 it-em's cost. This weekend,. a United States.-and: that is wily • unless the Unifedi'States Hn- painf.tdword&Qfadmis~ion~\N(l dt\~s!t~: An:d even m nus · reekclimbing instructional trip Israel ia fighting this sale so • poses, mxe upon,:}:sif~t~finposes · t ®n..'t have a stereq,. .•· · · tecillllt<:~ly, .. · a<f¥'anee~· ~ge.,, : is pla~ne-d. in tke ~hawngunks, fiercely. it upon. tber Arabs andt Israelis· . . W~lLcampe.rs'. thiS'mtide wiR n~~e~ f~~et tfl~t. old·. st~n~bY1. . and: fo!' t~e fotlowmg .we~kend, \Y.ou can· pretty. much both~ '·1fhe' tsmeiis are···set to help· you- g~t' over th~ heart·' t~e ~~M radio. 1 gua~tee. , an Adirondack: .overnite m the discegard any arguments about resist pressure, and therefone . break.: For those among l1S who tt:ha~ t?~r P.arents~ ha:thVll' tlhne a~ ... G~~at Range. T?ere are three ~....,...---..__,.,..,....___..._\:\'-__ the A.rabs are Waiting to see if .dop;'t.feeUike.spending.$1000 for wo ;~~·; a~ounu. .e ~ns~-.; :. ·scfiedule.d c,mti,ngs fo.r .the we have the will to force Israel ·a . ~~li!Y systl;lm; :-there are ~o,n_t,~~get~e> f:ek 1 radios.) . · H~1tween weekendz Midn1ght Money For The Asking • to make coneessions.~' What alternatives. e.·~~\!+fi> ?uers e. ~~t .ex- .cavmg, a flat water canoe day $ 5.,·\.1!'11 \'' :!.lfd!IO · action do y.,u believe the.Unfted The latest form of stereo P.fe.ps~~·~di ~~st V&~~dl;f~~e, trip, ~:md' ~day· h~E, 1'he club is uvv vvu,vv · y · altetna.tiveiS·the$100~~200 ran\'e· e :mJ.JSlc; u.om ro\-\'ll '\\JIU' llG' · 1 - · - ·n t·\' · b , States- wiU take in this aFea. \\~' \' men.·. ow mi. 'An .. d: never. ~et-, .. ~.~ ~a.~ .. ~P .. ·.~. ~ n 1 e'f. me~ erds correg·· &Sl.~ho. tarshtps. now? . of the Sony portable stereo gn 9 n.' ;nt;T;rt'j:)\ - ' \':'~'.B . ; . an~ ~ttg. g~stions. -~ .. tnt'€. 1este ' cassetfe player--tpe Walkman. v. \\\fl-~.u\'r · .- · . c.ontAct any club ()fficer~ afid, Orants . . \My feeling i:s tblittlie tJnited Tnese ... aifty little babtes afford ? .. ' ·: * ·. . let our computer match . , ~tates ,~m mo:ve.· t& defend .its you. ·incredible stereo- sound , .. . vo.ut background' ana. abilities mte~est m t~e .are~l a,t tne .r~sk reproduction through the light Witll:the !\e·qufrements of the · of mereaslDg fr1ctwn Wlt.h open ai(li~adp\Iones. ~ere are · • · . I$rael. f think the fact that three different ilio·dels for those 1 va~~oos grant 91\llng orgam- . Reagan has b~come involved in o! varied budgets. On the pl'!-s .. ~atlons. · a rather ugty struggle with.. 1:1~dt:J, you can put a few tapes m ·, .l>,a:ocessing: Fee:·ontv $45.00. Isvael' suppol,ij~ this view. 'flU~ . ,. ·a. b~g, str~' yow; ~~~kman to < '-~·. · Guaran.edi~eslllts ; . U~t,e~ ~t~tes.:~n~ ·~~~~~~i~~t: _, ,a.~: .. eel~:: AA~ ·zo::;·rt\fln~g :$1' \ · •. ·· · .. --·\. .. . . )~0or·~·Ylt~' ·int~rea·~·~<. · ~,~tilt:· roUen~~grtB;,.-~li~tt.rtre~. (try .~1' COI:TlJ:!Fe~ lf!faf:A'I!\tf?~ matt coupon . ·.~o,iliit~.~'., y;ili Siop~~.tfie)t . . · · ' 'l'~eivets~ tape ~; ..... _--..-~-r-~;---.----1; Sta · ·&m. Jl'.6t~·-if.ft ''~>-,.de~~. e.a.kets on·your · , l:.~~aJto~atJ!~searcta.set.vfee., · F 1 ~ ·.iii.. 11 ;,;: P . ~. ,,, ~· · '. · ·.· ,~;~. ~:~ .. ~.:, ·} . · -~~·a~!:J!:··~. ,·/t~ . ~·H·. c.m· t. he · t #l)!:fOY!ce Box 292 · · · · ··~ · · · 1\ · · ' ·iot.sr~l\~id· · · .. '111'~ d 'T~irftq(Hiark.N:Y.1'206S. I. ·.~at U?.··~OU.. :~.tbi'nl\, of tb ... e~ rm~~~.,...e,yQJ,tcc- •. r .. ecor on .l :-~ · .t · Soviet Unron'S' ®ntenbon tnat · tj) ~ Walkr.nan .so you·- have to . ' 1 Name I the Unit(~d St~tes: ts exercising. find a: friend with a goo~ system .I , t . \gross diktat\ iA; the area? ':t aru:hr.ec01!d tapes ~n his de~~t. 1 Aaaress r · think the Ru,ss1ans' . by ttus An e-Q,ually pleasmg acoustic 1 ·f statement .are indicating they , system 1S a \ghetto-blaster\ or · I - 1 · are going to challenge our COI'I111lonlY known as. a \bo~.\ . 1 · The service vou can't Afford 1 position in Egypt. We consider These players are ql!_lt~ bulk!er l------~~t~~':__. ____ J , Eg-ypt part Qf our sphere of than the Walkman and 1f you re interest· now the Russians are not careful you can probably sayin~ EgYPt is up for grabs.\ give yourself a back ache from r.

·,._,. ··.; \} . . ' ' ' 1 · • . OONOORD1EN818, October 16, 1981 features ,· .. ·· : . . . ' ' ' .. -.~. ·.· < . .: __ '. Herbal Teas: A Lethal Brew .... - B V) ..., >- ..0 0 -' 0, .s::. ' 0.. Members of the Outing Club (see article below) By PROFESSOR HELENA BffiECKA For many centuries herbs have been used as ·remedies against a great variety of diseases, including cancer, in indigenous medicine on both hemispheres. In most cases the healing action of the herbs has been due to the presence of substances called alkaloids (\alkali-like\, basic, bitter) . Mid .. East Relations: The number of known alkaloids exceeds 6000 and many of them are used as drugs in modern medicine. However, very many of these SL1bstances can also be toxic to animals and human beings. Unsaturated pyrrolizidine alkaloids are considered to be the most dangerous because their toxic eff~cts, including car- Prof. Speaks Out By AMELIA A. TERHUNE whether the AWACS pose a How do you think Mubarek emogenieity, are of a chronic, threat to Israeli security or fits into this? pregressi-ve character; they In light of the recent whether our security would be resemble· in this respect toxins assassination of Egyptian compromised if the AWACS \We don't know inucb about formedbyfungi:ratber than the President Anwar el-Sadat, the were to fall into enemy hands. Mubarek. Egyptian ~HUes main body of alkaloids. Thus, proposed sale of A WAC sur- What is really at stake here is tends to be cut-throat, 50 he had these substances may produce veillance aircraft to Saudi whether American policy in the cl-inical symptoms after long A b. d th a1 to maintain a low profile. But ra ta, an · e gener unrest Mid-East is going to continue to this much we do know. to sur- ter}ll exposure. in the Middle East, a Political be·· focused exclu-sively on vive he had to be smart.'' 0-ve.l' 150 pyrrolizidine Science professor, Stephen israel, or whether it also ac- alkaloids are known. They were Pell>Ctiere, was ask-ed his comodate the Arab states. f fotlfl<f.. mainly in tile families opinion on the United· States' \As for the death of Sadat . . . These are. the view$ ° C o m p o ~ i t .a e ( t r r b e role in the Mid-East. Prof. his death is tied up with the sale Profess(IF Pell~ti~e, and in. no Senedone,a~)-~ Legumln:osae Pelletiere: \Ever siAce the 1973· t: AW cs · h' · ·· • ~d ' w~ l'\eftect tbe Qpjnion of thtl ( c • 1 r ) · d O~; _ A tn t ts way: \\ at s Co-..cordie~Jais M\ its staff. The ~enus , . · ro~e ar a , an · war between the .Arabs•and the or-eat• insirt~:.t··was that there · · · Bof.agiaa,ceae. (,a .. l.l g_en. e .. ra. ) .. Israelis, the United! States has ~· · · ···. f'\' ( I • • • • · I • &: · Cont!orttiensl&, invite& replies · .., e.g. Senecio, Crotola.ria, Tussilago, HeUo,tropium, Symphytum, etc. Symphytum x llplandicum (Russian comfrey) is also consumed by humans in salads or as a beverage. In the U.S.A. Crotolaria- spectabilis (rattle box), Senacio jacobaea (tansy ragword ), Senecio longilobus ( threadleaf greundsel), Senecio vulgaris commofl tansy or common groundsel), Symphytum of- f.icinale (comfrey), Amsickia intermedia (fidleneck), and several Heliotropium species are found in the southern and western states. All these species contain toxic alkaloids. Comfrey is W1idely used as a herbal tea in Europe ami America. Senecio species have also been found in herb tea mixtures. In the U.S.A. two fatalies reported were due to consumption of Senecio longilobus as a medicinal herb. Not only plants containing pyrrolizidine alkaloids can be toxic. There are known cases of poisoning __ related to the use of Datura stramonium, pen- nyroyal, pokeweed, Lobelia., burdock, a:loes, senna, buckthorn, and others. reafu_e'\' that it\· priorw._ ies hav~ could·~~ l'lO'St!: '!bon to'th~ ~~I • , *1\e.t as ale.tt.~to.the Editor or- M~n¥. PY.rJQhzidme·bearlng 011 .. '\ Isra~h confli,ct. ltnl-:ss· I tte . as a commel\tar~ . phi'R~s: ave. stlll used as herbs~ been .misp:laeedo; Thtr wa·P . tJnfte.d::§tates- actively mvolved . ·· ~ • · 1 I • ' _ • showed Amellk:an,.lea<hrs.that ·m- s~ettmg· a solation.: m .,. ~ I • ' \ '.\' •{ 1 E;ditor's Note: ln~rested persons should check the ingredients listed on their tea box~ to see, whetheF or not one of the afarementioned harmful' speCies of tea ~-jncluded. we. bave vitali.·intere!ln., in the· the. ·~ t~~ f-Gre .. '; :..:tal n th:e ri'Sk- ~jt · ' . ~- Cl ... ,. · ·L·. T .. ·~ ; I . ~ Mid:-Ea,<Jt ·wnieli ·are loqated in a~tfn~ afHh~ Arab' st~~ ih •. ·. 'llv-. .. rave· ··S the ~uH; we had\ to safegit:ard orde:r to create a peace proee5s · · ' · '· ~- ~ · - our supply of oil. Tne·entry of 'in whlen ·the United StateS' BySA:tJLBJJ;lttEY baekpaek.ing, canoeing, eaving, roek and ice climbing, and the Ra:ssians into Afgba.aistan would become thoroughly in· ' sky-dmng, bang-gliding,· rE>ck hang-gliding, the leader must undeFScor:ed tbis message. volved. Now the'~ Arab states are The Outing Club;, headed by and tee eiimb~, biking, a;mi- have the necessary experience \So ever since 1973, and- waiting,. to .s~e whetber tile J.ohn. Jameson. is weU on it$ cross cq:urtt.-r. s~g. The trtps · ··and qualifications»as felt by the int~~e-ly smce 1989 (tlle ina United;. State$.~! g~~di!Wil· thtr ·, way.to -~r suc~s~ful year l{tie· schedUled for weet¢ends; · club ·officers. ~ va~iem of .Afghanist~nh the a ·to; bring a, just peace t-o the llere at Union. 'the . club. is an vacaiiotJ;S, · · and various Wed:. Umt~;States has been trying t(} Mid~: East. 'If we ·use: Sa®t's · organizat~tr,aevo~di to· outdoDr · nes4ia~s.. Th~y.. aile~ ~~- by put dista~e -~tweeG ~tself and ·. ooat;h·as .an ex:c'W3~ t~. aba:itdon:, . s~ ~hdti~s< !rbe agen~. , m.e;;npeJ;s or ~eer9;.of ~~:.elub .. ' · SOJI.'!eo'trips that have· already lSFael . unfl! ·' tfeveiop. · s.tr0:ng · the pea:e~ ·.proeess;, tileR ali (he , ~:·ftO!i 19®;.~1'982·~ inp~:u~es the. ·As. foP:\mOl'e·specialiZed. events· . been: u.ndert.aken by en· relatiollShips with oM. er. more Arali'statoe~ -witl give ~P: t~~Lys , ; fqlblwmg t~eS;•ttH~~f. hiking, stJCb:-\:~~i!:f winter-oackWelnf!f§, . lliU$UtStic memboos in the past Arab stat.es. 'Ilhis iS: the-- €9ntext ami we Will batre lost all of o'q'r \ · . . . . . . · ,. • d · few w~eks: are a days hike to the in ·which-the AWACS Stile has . level'ige. with ·the· Arab~ ·FOf Et~- '\c\,t· .· ·:·. \-n· .• , c· v·. ·':.o' .• : : Ad{rort.dacka',. caving in gottobevlewed. · tbattea.son,wehave.tasupport · ~ ~e \ · .rO'. ·, · · .· ... · '.· · Clarksville, a. bike trip to ' 1 The sale :represents a policy. Mubarek as the representative · - · · · , Martha's Vineyard, and hiking deeiston, a decisionto eultivate ...., tbe E·gy· pt· 1 ·a ... governm.e\'t.· . . . in tne High Peaks near Lake • oJ. c.u •• p s· ROB·ER\' t· ·Mo· nl:'lE. liautlng tlle ·monstro-sity PI id Th · a speci<tl relationship with the the Egyptian nation, and as the Y · ,~, \ · v;:, around.'' . ac ·. ·. ese trtps were Saudis by fostering close ties Arab partner in the peace received with positive feed- between our military and process., Did you hear the new Dead In the more conventional side, back. The club has a substantial theirs. The Israelis realize that alfium? What? Are you kid- there are the basic tape amount of equipment which is any development of a special Why must the United States ding? You don't have a stereo? recorders. These relics from the free for members to borrow. relationship with Saudi Arabia be involved in the peace Has this embarrassing scene age bef()re micro-chips are the Non-members may rent the diminishes the special process? \The Arabs realize ever happened to you? Have- kinds of things you can pick up equipment at 5 percent of the relationship they have with the that there can be no solution you ever stammered over those at a bank for a meager $5()00 item's cost. This weekend, a United States-and that is why . unless the United· States 1m~ painfulword&ofadmission''NG, d:e.p.osi:t. And even ~n this reckcHmbing instructimJal trip Israel is fighting this sale so poses we upo:n 'rsr~l-irnposes I don't have a stereo.\ · te.elmicaHy advanced age, is planned in. the Shawngunks, fiercely. it upon the Arabs and Israelis Welt campers, this article will never f()rget that old standby, and for the following weekend, \You ca:n pretty much both. The Israelis are set to help you get over th~ beart- the AM-FM radio. r .guarantee an Adirondack overnite in the disregard any argwnents about resist pressure, and therefore break. For those among us who that your parents have\ one or Great Range. There are three the Arabs are waiting to see if d(}Jl~t feellike spending $1000 for two ly,ing around the house.. scheduled outings for the we have the will to force Israel a quality system, there are (Do.n'tfoFget the cluck radios.): Halloween weekend: Midnight Money For The Asking $3,000,000,000 to make concessions., What alterna:tives. The radio offers the least ex- caving, a flat water canoe day . d 1 . h d The latest form of stereo pensi,~.and mest varie&~u~:ce. tr·p, 1 and a day hike, The club 15 · actwn o you be 1eve t e Unite f · • ,_ cortege Sthofarsh ips and orants States will take in tllis area alternativeis the $100-$200 range o · mttstC; fPom rocAI ·100 too always open to new members now? of the Sony partable stereo mellow 101-. (And never forgtlt ·· and sugge.stions. If interested, cassette player-the Walkman. 90.9 .... WRUC!) co.Rtact any dub officer. \My feeling is that the United These nifty little babies afford. Let our computer match States will move to defend its you incredible stereO' sound your bacl<ground and abifities interest in the area,. at the risk reproduction through the light w~th the requirements of the of increasing friction. with open air 'headphones. There are Israel. I think the .fact that three different models for those ' various grant giving organi- . Reagan has become involved in of varied budgets. On the plus zations. a rather ugly struggle with side, you can put a few tapes in P.rocessing Fee Only $45.00 Israel .supperls this view. The a bag, strap your. Wa-lkJ:?an to · · Guaranteect:Results United States now realizes that yom: ,belt and go runnmg or · our· vital interes is oil and rotle'l's~tinttl;lr; whatever! (try frat complete I!Jformatfofl.. m<~Jtcoupon nothing· .will s. t?p, ';tqe-~:·Un(tect. toa.~g,~l1!':1~ur reeeivers, tape ~ ..... ----~~..,..,..,.. ..... ______ .., · Stat~ fJ.lom Jll'.Oteetmg 1ta- ~ital-. deg~,and,twa~peakets on your \ . '. Need Blood? Stage Blood, Fan.gs, C~,MakaUp, Ev~ey,_.hi'ng· For the . ·.~·: · .. ····~v~ire.L J1&;Y~tp • • .. · .. :; , ThtfCostumer \ . f.~t.teatlonanesear.ebServlce. · r:· · infe\i~.st.s/' · ~· · ~ell( .aatt: .m, skating!') on the t~st OM'Ice Box292 ~ ., · · · 1:1\ n't d · l 1 cnf.ton. Park. N.Y. 12065 1 r What do you , tQink. of the;, - · ni~. :side, you can' recor · on Soviet Union's contention that totJlt} Walltman so you have to I Name_________ I the United States is exercising finda friend with a good system . t • \gross diktat\ in the area? \I and rec@rd tapes on his deck. 1 Address____ ~-- J think the Russians by this An equally pleasing acoustic l .. I statement are indicating they. system is a \ghetto-blaster\ or 1 · - ~~- - -- 1 are going to challenge our commonly known as. a \bo~.\ 1 The service vou can·t Afford 1 position in Egypt. We consider These players are qmt~ bulk!er L ______ ~:_t~us':._ _____ j Egypt part of our sphere of than the Walkman and xf you re interest· now the Russians are not careful you can probably sa yin~'( Egypt is up for ~rabs.\ give yourself a back ache from . 444 Stat'e. St. Scho ... ~cly, N.Y • 374-7442 1 5,000 Rental Costumes l,OOO's of Masks & Accessories j .L NEW TOll STITI1 lWJ.OlfiD JD:IItUIITEU \'<f) T •• ·t ,,

· Page 4 OONOORDIENSIS, October 16, 1981 ~rts & Culture Mountebanks Returns By MEGAN CUMMINGS- SAXTON Most of us are unaware of exactly what Montebanks is. Created over 50 years ago, Montebanks is the oldest student theatre group in America. Produced and financed entirely by students, it has struggled to remain alive despite periods .of waning in- terest and increasingly restricted budgets. Three years ago Montebanks suffered a temporary disbandment <due to severe financial problems, however, · strong interest has revived it and this fall marks the debut of a new Montebanks. They return ambitiously with two productions; Michael Weller's \Moonchildren\, and Neil Sinlon's \The Good Doc- tor\. Often the phrase \student ruri\ denotes amateur work, however Montebanks is ex- tremely professional in it's efforts, with a great deal of dedication amongst it's members. It's a surprisingly talented and experienced group with a great deal to offer, in- cluding two very skilled and serious directors. ... I:Sut Livingston steals the show. Natalie Barandes, the Concert Reviewed: Yesterday's So.unds By CINDY WILKINSON and ROBERTA RUBINSTEIN Livingston Taylor may only have shared billing on Friday night, but many concert- goers felt that he far outshone Don McLean. Taylor's per- formance was a pleasant surprise for all. Most people expected quite a mellow show but Livingston had everyon~ rocking with his rousing ren- ditions of \If I Only Had A Brain\ and ''Jacques Cousteau\. His music, for the most part, was 'fun' to hear and everyone seemed to enjoy listening. He did play some slower songs such as \I 'Will Love You\ which went over just as well. Unlike his brother James, who performs in a rather laid- back fashion, Livingston put on quite a show. He and the rest of his band had a great time and they involved the audience in much of their music. Maybe this extra effort is Livingston's attempt to come out from under his brother's shadow and make a name for himself. Who knows, but for whatever reason, he made it an enjoyable evening for all who attended. Yet the evening by no means ended with the close of Livingston's show. Before -the crowd had a chance to get restless, Don McLean took over the stage. Needless to say the crowd welcomed him as war- mly as they did Livingston-only there seemed to be an air of uncertainty throughout the show. Whether it came from the crowd or Livinston himself is hard to surmise, for McLean seemed almost apprehensive Continued on page 9 Museum-College Concerts Open The Schenectady Museum- Union College International Festival of Chamber Music series opens its tenth season Tuesday, Oct. 20, with the world-renowned Beaux Arts Trio. The group will perform an all-schubert program, begin- ning at 8 p.m. in the Union College Memorial Chapel. Featuring pianist Menhem Pressler, violinist Isidore Cohen, and cellist Bernard Greenhouse, the award-winning Beaux Arts Trio has been called \unquestionably the finest trio performing before the public today. Freshness of approach, oneness of ensemble playing, superb musicianship, · and tremendous zest characterize the Beaux Arts Trio's per- formances.'' Concert tickets, which are $8 for the general public and $4 for students, are available at the Schenectady Museum, at all Community Box Office locations, and at the door. Series subscriptions are also available. In its tenth anniversary season, the International Festival of Chamber Music series will present the Capital District debuts of the Warsaw Philharmonic Chamber Orchestra and Tafelmusik, a group of Canadas' finest youngest musicians. Recorder virtuoso Frans Brueggen, in his second series appearance, will present an all-Bach program as soloist and conductor with Tafelmusik. Returning this year, in ad- dition to the Beaux Arts Trio, will be the Bartok String Quartet, the Philip Jones Brass Ensemble, and I Solisti di Zagreb. For the third successive year, the three-concert Music from Marlboro series will also be presented. The finest young musicians will be joined by such Marlboro veterans as Isidore Cohen, Harold Wright, principal clarinet of the Boston Sym- phony Orchestra, and Bruno Canino, pianist of Trio di Milano. Also this year, in a special two-concert performance, Dutch Baroque cellist Anner Bylsma. will play the complete Bach Suites on two successive evenings, Friday and Saturday, February 19 and 20, 1982. Bylsma, who will be visiting professor of music at Harvard University during the winter and spring semesters, is best known for his interpretation of music from the Baroque arid early Classical periods. It is especially with his in- terpretation of the Bach Suites that Bylsma has gained an international reputation. For mqre information about this season's events, call the Schenectady Museum at 382- 7890. Complete line .of CAPEllO DANSKIN lNG A Outfits for the Dancer, Ice & Roller Skater or Exerciser. cehe @oslumer 444 state st., Sch'dY 374•7442 director of \Moonchildren\, returns to Union after a year of extensive theatrical experience outside the college. She spent , last fall at the Eugene O'Neil National Theatre Institute, and: then stage managed off Broadway and worked with the producer of \Little Foxes\. At Union she has been involved with the productions of: \Torn Paine\ \Robberbride Groom\ and \Try Out\. She also stage rnanag~d \Six Rooms Riv Vu \. and \Six Charactors in. Search of an Author\. Andy Levine, the director of \The Good Doctor\ also has a great deal .of :ex- perience. He directed the Union production of \This Property is Condemed\ and has been in, volved with; \The Crucible\ \Three Sisters\ \Hairy Ape''', \Working\, and \Noah's Nott\. He also did summer stock productions of \Fantastiks\, and \Pippen\. \Moonchildren\ introduces a number of fresh faces to the Union stage. Those making their debut include; Mitch Bernstein (Who plays Willis), Darcy Hammerman (Pearl), Wendy Zisselman (Ruth), Robert Fast (Cootie), Ira Baron (Dick), Scott Bloom (Mike), and Adam Storke (playing Bob)! Elizabeth Baker (Kathy, Keith Feltman (Norman), Melissa Gold (Shelly),and Mike Zelvin (Uncle Murray), have all been involved in Union productions previously. Susan Rubman is the set designer and Glenn Krutoff is the production stage manager. Each member of \The Good Doctor\ cast plays a nwnber of roles, due to the nature of the play. Ken Altman is I van llyitch Cherdyakov and Antoshay. Irene Fassler plays Sonya Cherdyakov, Julia, and Miss Pochatkin. Brett Putman is The Husband, and The Policeman. Rob Quish plays Peter Semonych, and The Drowned Man. Tom Rice is General Mikhai:l Brassilhov, 'The Sexton, and Mr. Kistun()V. 'Bambi Schlauch plays The Mistress and Nina MikhaUovna Zarechna,ya. Anna Tuck:er is Mrs. Brassilhov, The Wife, and The Defenseless Woman. Marcy Wilder plays Kuryatin and The Girl; aad William · Ziskin is The Writer- .. The stage designer is Ken Altman, Ruth Ewing is .stage manager, Lora Nelson is the assistent director; Steve Auerbach is the lighting designer, and Karen N ort;on ·is their costumes designer: ' \Moon children\ written in the early 1970's, tak:es place in. 1965 with a co;ed df campus college apartment. It is a poignant comedy that focuses upon the relation ships that develop between tlt.ese college students, and ·it's message is one which the direot<1r feels still has a great deal of significance for today's college student. \The Good Doctor\ is a collection of seven ~hort plays written by ·Anton Cllekhov and revised by Neil Simon. The charactor \The Writer\ walks us through each story, and is the thread that holds them all together. All seven scenes are _ comedies that vary from ·hysterical to bittersweet, in- cluding a tale about a man who offers to drown himself for 3 rubles, and a Fatll.er who in- troduces his son to brothels on his 18th birthday. ''Moonchildren'' will be playing Nov. 13, 14,. 15, 19, 20, and the 21st. \The Good Doc- tor\ will play Nov. 3 through 7th, and tickets for both plays will be 2 dollars for students and 3 dollars for off campus~ Both promise to be excellent shows and certainly deser-ve Union's support. Prepare for GRE Dec. 12/Feb. 6 Exam TESTING REVIEW SERVICE 28 Brickley Dr., Albany NY 12205 (518) 447-575S ADELPHI·,UNIVERSITY'S PREPARATION COU,RSE • 40 hr. course -live lectures ' • in-class prac.tice exams • audio tape Ubr~ry • GUARANTEE: If you don't sccre 600, take the next course FR:EE N Free Questlon & Answer session concerning the LSAT and the law.pchool admission process to beheld at the Best Western-Thruway House. 1375 Wasflington Ave., Albany at 6:30PM. on October 22. For further information, to attend a Q & A session or to enr~n in the next course, Call COLLECT: (212). 679·2773 o~ write: LSAT Prep~ration Course, Adelphi Urban Center, 22 East 28th St. New Vork, N.Y. 10016. Contact locally: Stuart Schwartz (518) 4S9·5660 In cooperation with The National Center for Educational resling, Inc. t ( ~ 1 l l ;!; 1 I l (

OONCOBDlENSIS, October 16, 1981 Page 5 ~tts & Culture Come to the Cabaret! By BOB FOX During the years 1972 and 1973 the Union College Cabaret, originally known as 'Le Ritz' (.after The Ritz), was located in room 202 of the Arts building. The audience sat at card tables by candlelight, and slpp.ed coffee and tea. The program faltered however and ended in the spring ·Of 1973. Only a few members of the Union com- munity realized what a grave loss the College had suffered. and Union students and faculty provided the rest: great amateur entertainment, lively song and dance, and enjoyment for all. shows were enthnsiasticaUy received by the freshmen and the first two shows of the year came off very smoothly, thanks to the hard work of all involved. Tonight's acts are Mary Bonk Vasko, Pete Perronen and Chris Gaynor and The Band of Dave Haviland, Karen Weisgerber, and Greg Meyer. The M.C. is Eric Ruben. Tickets are on sale at the Box office, so buy yours now. ''What good is sitting alone in your room, come hear the music play.\ ; Sue Gray and Betsy Modest,who are responsible for1Cabaret , Then, in the spring of 197 4, a directing class taught by Barry Smith of the Arts Department, eame up with the original idea and plans for Cabaret. That group of approximately ten students . with Smith as their advisor proceeded towards their goal in. what seems to have been a very rational, organized manner. Their original proposal stated the purpose of Cabaret to be: to bring the community together in an atmosphere of entertainment; to encourage both students and·faculty on this c~pus to share their creqtivity with the community; to support both an organiZed and a free (spontaneous) spirit of en- tertainment in the areas of music, dance, drama, and art; to provide an atmosphere where talk is not in competition with music; and, to provide an open forum for all kinds of artistic expression. They seem to have hit the nail right on the head. This year, Cabaret continues to provide the Union Com- munity with great en- tertainment. At the helm are two seasoned veterans, Betsy Modest and SU:e Gray. They have both been involved with Cabaret since they came ..to Union. As co-coordinators, Betsy and Sue are in charge of auditioning prospective acts, scheduling shows, searching for talent, and ensuring a smooth operation in general. That last job, ensuring a smooth operation in general, includes an e~dless list of respon- sibilities. They work hard but they are not alone. The Dan·ce Extension at Union Opening night was May 16, 197 4, and it was a huge success. During that spring, Cabaret was held in room 101 Carnegie Hall, the present mail room. The next fall it was moved across the hall to the present location. The Schenectady Department of Health granted Union a restaurant permit for Cabaret in September of 1974 Heler:! Hansen, a junior, is in charge of the kitchen, from which comes the beer, ·wine, cheese and munchies that keep the audience, and the per- formers, £Oing through the night. Jim Carroll, also a junior, is in charge .of sound and lighting. ' ' The Cabaret room could stand some new sound equipment, along with plenty of other new materials. Many tables and chairs, which have been danced on and tipped over repeatedly, are in need of repair. The masks which have hung on the walls these past few years are all relics of past Mountebanks productions, and are cherished by the Arts Department. 'l;'hey may have to be removed due to abuse. Betsy ,and Sue foresee major work being needed on the room in the near future. They will welcome ideas anyone may have for a revamped Cabaret room. . So far this year, Cabaret has been a success. The orientation By MICHAEL SHARP Performing for an avid homecoming crowd of close to two hundred people, The Brown University Dance Extension leapt and · plied across the Memorial Chapel stage in one of Union College's finest dance performances. The dancers, Bob Accola, David Bronstein, Cindy Chock, Jacqueline Davies, Rebecca Harrison, Mary Beth Jordan, Patricia Langan, Sally Nettles, and Judith Shapiro arrived at Union Friday night in high spirits. For many of them it was their first performance with the extension. They were met in front of North College by Union Dance Club officers, Nannette Blum, Ellen Holtzman, and Anne Keetz who would keep a close watch on the visiting performers for the remainder of their stay. Curtain time was Saturday afternoon at 4:30. By that time the chapel was packed with students and visiting alumni. For their first dance, entitled Who will be first to· forecast the future - electronically? - Our electronic simulators, computerized training systems, and logistical support all help forecast or prepare for almost any kind of crisis. Our arm of Hughes Aircraft forewarns and forearms pilots in hazardous skies, troops· at th.e front, and the technicians everywhere who support them. Bring us your BS or MS degree in ME, EE, Physics, or Computer Science. You can be part of state-of-the-art electronics outside Los Angeles, or part of a field support team almost anywhere on earth. We'll introduce you to people, ideas, and jobs that could change your world. And ours. It could be you and Hughes Support Systems r------------------, ·I I i HUGHES 1 I I L------------------j HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY SUPPORT SYSTEMS Proof of U.S. Citizenship Required Equal Opportunity Employer We 1 11 be on campus October 22 See your placement office for an appointment. Hoe Down, the troupe took the stage wearing trad·itional hillbilly garb. The dance started off on a slow tempo· but midway through the performance, ~the pace quickened and soon the bright checkered skirts of the girls and the overalls of the boys flashed horizontally across the stage. The dance contained an impressive amount of brilliant leaps, quick movements, and whirling colors, which con- tributed to the tone of the work that can be best described by one key word-energy. If maintenance could have hooked up the energy coming off the stage during Hoe DoWll they could have powered the school for a month. The next dance, Trio, l,lad a more subdued tone. Three dancers dressed in muted shades of pink and lavender gelicately pirouetted to the music of Vivaldi. Their actions drew attention to their hand movements, which acted like magnets, drawing the dancers closer and closer together into a unified body. The ·action was smooth and liquid as the trio moved as a single entity. The final rl.ance of the af- ternoon was an unusual and highly sensual piece, entitled Elephantes Exotiques. The dancers wore grey body suits and moved to the pulsating shrills of a Tuba quartet. Their movement were elongated and gradual, as if some great weight was attached to their bodies. Sometimes they seemed to move as single beings, but in certain instances they would group and one could feel the strength and security caused by their pseudo-herding actions. At one moment the .. herd\ was a unified whole and at other instances the dancers would pair off and the tone of the work would change to belligerence and even passion. In all, the piece was very natural and lively. The action suggested bestial movement in a forest or jungle, not the stageof good ol' Memorial Chapel. Such a show was indeed refreshing and was reminiscent of the Union College Dance Club's performance last spring. It was no wonder the dancers left the stage amidst thunderous applause. The Extension, wbich has been in existence for three years, is headed by Julie Strandberg. It is named thusly because it is an extension of the Brown University dance program. At first the group gave only local performances but after a while they began to tour colleges. In the words· of Strandberg, the group \gives the students a chance to have a mini-performtnghood.\ The extension has its own repertoire of dances, some choreographed by Strandberg and some by the students. The group is mostly student run and the dancers do most of their own booking. WRUC Top Ten Albums For This Week 1. Tatoo You--The Rolling Stones 2. Beauty & The Beat·-The Go Go's 3. Pirates--Ricki Lee Jones 4. Eastside Story--Squeeze 5. Short Back & Sides--Jan Hunter 6. And Then He Kissed Me--Rachel Sweet 7. Syl, Sylvanian & The Teardrops--Syl, Sylvain 8. New Toy--Lene Lovich 9. All of the Above .. Lohn Hall 10. Talk, Talk, Talk--Psyched Furs THIS WEEK ON WRUC Attention!! Don't Miss lti!! Cruise with \The Superstar\ Tune in on Friday, Oct. 16 at 8:30a.m. for REAL MUSIC! Yes, every Friday morning Kathi Zuckerman plays what you want to hear! You can't go wrong with a Superstar, Tune in for the RCA Recording Artists Radio Special \Hall & Oates\ on Saturday night at 10 p.m. on October 17. Don': miss itt WRUC is looking for talented people to design a new logo for WRUC. It must say, \90.9 WRUC, S<;henectady.\ All drawings become the property of WRUC. The best idea will be awarded a CASH PRIZE. All entries must be in by t'Jov. 10. Please see Nancy Raisman for further details. -\'~8\~ 464 State St. Schenectady, NY ~~ .~S£e -.WE DE,LIVER- 374-1888

Page 6 CONOORDIBNSIS, October 16, 1981 Editorials Letters A Plurality of One The Junior Class has a. new Junior Representative. There were no elections. There were no fanfares. There were no debates. There was no participation. There was no interest on the part of the entire class. They will, therefore, have no right to criticize .in the future. The Student Government E'lections Committee advertised the open position. of Junior Representative. Tfle.positlon was vacated by the student who had won the seat last year. (He unexpectedly chose to study elsewhere this year.) The response from the class was poor, to say the least. It could be argued that those members of their class who ran last year should have run again. The only flaw, and a most important flaw, in the argument is that these indiViduals who wanted to serve their class and the school found other ways in which to fulfill themselves. Understandably they cannot fill two positions at the same time, therefore they did not run for Junior Representative. Co:n.sequently, only one person submitted a petition to run for the position. She is to be recognized for her dedication, and willingness to participate. Perhaps the Junior Class fails to realize just how important its voice is to the campus. The juniors have two years of experience behind them, and a stake in the future of the student body. Their input is essential. It is unfortunate that they have not chosen to express themselves, or to get involved. The Junior Class may find itself in a very precarious position. We hope that the individual who will fill the position is competent, and is enthusiastic enough to do a good job. This is supported by the fact that she was organized and motivated enough to fill out, and hand in a petition according to the rules 9f the Election Committee. She will be at a disadvantage because she does not have a good feel· for the broad opinions and interests of her class. This type of insight !s acquired primarily by participating in an election, and engaging in discussions that are prompted by an election and its pertinent iss~es. It is not unreasonable to imagine that she will not ba. ve a good grasp of the different interests that she must represent, only because she has not had to debate other candidates who represent these viewpoints. An analogy can be made to a state government that nms one candidate, and allows only that candidate to be voted into office. The plurality of opinion is lost in the shuffle. We wish the new Junior Representative all the best, and we hope she does a good job. The Junior Class does not, at this time, deserve good representation based on the response that the Election Committee received. We hope that they will not have to learn their lesson the hard way. Maybe next year these same students will take out time from their partying, and library social visits to provide a complete election ticket for Senior Representative. Grin and Bear It This past Monday, October 12, the Student Forum approved the 1981-82 budget. This is an action that wUl affect nearly every student at Union, and it is a decision that requires careful scrutiny. Vice President for Finance, Peter McCaffery, and the Finance Committee have put together a cohesive, we:U thought-out plan for financing student organizations. They have admittedly taken a \hard line\ attitude towards financing organizations, and this is something that all of us simply must face. To place everything in its proper perspective, Ooncordiensi8 was cut by $4051. We will simply cut our expenses where they can be cut. We have no choice but to live by those limits. We are confident, however, that those limits will never severely. interfere with us putting out the best newspaper possible week after week. We will not, we hope, be forced to print only half the number of copies that we intended to, come spring term. We do not feel that it is the Finance Com- mittee's intention to put organizations in such a position. Instead, what we see .J.s an effort to force clubs to operate on their bare minimum, and then to make·' specific requests to spend above that minimum. The Finance Committee's intention is a good one. Many organizations pad their budgets in some way. This not only causes problems for the Finance Committee in evaluating tl)e budget proposals, .but it will inevitably cause many · groups to suffer. One disturbing event that must be addressed is that at the Forum meeting, the proposed budget was presented as an all or nothing package. This is a potentially dangerous action to take. As was shown in the meeting, there are occasions when the goals of an organization are debated, and their money allocation questioned. The Forum should have been presented with the option of further investigation of some of the particular issues and problems posed by individual clubs. It seems a bit unfair for the Finance Committee to give Forum the ultimatum \take it or leave it.\ The budgets are too important for that. The Forum should have been given the opportunity to take all the time it needed to be satisfied with the budgets, each and every one. The approach that :McCaffery has taken is a different one from those in the past. He admits that the C<>mmittee was generous to those organizations whose budget requests were thorough and precise, citing that most of the cutting oc- curred when clubs were vague about what exactly they needed money for, and how they planned on spending it. Thist\better safe than sorry\ approach of the Finance Committee is one that should insure a minimum ~f waste while insuring that every club has the funds, at least potentially, available if they are needed for a justifiable reason. _ There w111 undoubtedly be painful cries as the McCaffrey budget ax falls, but the cuts will insure that careful examinations of exactly where clubs are spen· ding money will occur-, and the result will hopefully be that our student activity fee will be spent in the best possible manner. Editors-ill-chief Managing Editor News Editor Features .Editor · Arts & Culture Editor Campus Page Editors Sports Editors AssistanLSports Editor Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Cartoonists Rachel I. Mandel, Paul Grossman Juliels~o Naomi Blank Ed Albro Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Jay:McDennott, Rob Norton Drew Hurley Cory Lewkowicz · Mindy Broser · Steve Lerner David Neiblum, Lisa Snyder Staff Mandy Abrams, Steven Auerbach, Saul Berley, Alan Binkow, Norman Birnbach, Dan Booth, Thomas Ching, Barton Hill Levine, Doug Landon, Susan Linehan, Mike Meaney, Rich Mintz, Peter Mohr, Mark Mortensen, D.C. Owens, Eric Ruben, Amelia A. Terhune, Cindy J. Tenner, Roberta Rubenstein Business Staff Jenny Amler, Evelyn Gurdin, Dianne Pavacic Photo Staff Janet Guiliano, Norman Pflaster, Robert Tang , CONCORI>IENSIS is published every 'l'hmsday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, N~w ... York 12308; Pt.Jblications Office: Susquehanna . Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New YorK 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in. the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. . ,. · CONCORDIENSJS su6scribes to the College Press Service (CPS)., and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB).

Page 6 OONCORDIENSIS, October 15, 1981 Editorials Letters A Plurality of One The Junior Class has a new Junior Representative. There were no elections. There were no fanfares. There were no debates. There was no participation. There was no Interest on the part of the entire class. They wUl, therefore, have no right to criticize in the future. The Student Government Elections Committee advertised the open position of Junior Representative. The .position was vacated by the student who had won the seat last year. (He unexpectedly chose to study elsewhere this year.) The response from the class was poor, to say the least. It could be argued that those members of their class who ran last year should have run again. The only flaw, and a most important flaw, in the argument is that these individuals who wanted to serve their class and the school found other ways in which to fulflll themselves. Understandably they cannot fill two positions at the same time, therefore they did not run for Junior Representative. Consequently, only one person submitted a petition to run for the position. She is to be recognized for her dedication, and wlllingness to participate. Perhaps the Junior Class fails to realize just how important its voice is to the campus. The juniors have two years of experience behind them, and a stake in the future of the student body. Their input is essential. It is untortunate that they have not chosen to express themselves, or to get involved. The Junior Class may find itself in a very precarious position. We hope that the individual who will fill the position is competent, and is enthusiastic enough to do a good job. This is supported by the fact that she was organized and motivated enough to fill out, and hand in a petition according to the rules of the Election Committee. She will be at a disadvantage because she does not have a good feel for the broad opinions and interests of her class. This type of insight is acquired primarily by participating in an election, and engaging in discussions that are prompted by an election and its pertinent iss~es. It is not unreasonable to imagine that she will not have a good grasp of the different interests that she must represent, only because she has not had to debate other candidates who represent these viewpoints. An analogy can be made to a state government that runs one candidate, and allows only that candidate to be voted into office. The plurality of opinion is lost in the shuffle. We wish the new Jrmior Representative all the best, and we hope she does a good job. The Junior Class does not, at this time, deserve good representation based on the response that the Election Committee received. We hope that they will not have to learn their lesson the hard way. Maybe next year these same students will take out time from their partying, and library social visits to provide a complete election ticket for Senior Representative. Grin and Bear It This past Monday, October 12, the Student Forum approved the 1981-82 budget. This is an action that will affect nearly every student at Union, and it is a decision that requires careful scrutiny. Vice President for Finance, Peter McCaffery, and the Finance Committee have put together a cohesive, well thought-out plan for financing student organizations. They have admittedly taken a \hard line\ attitude towards financing organizations, and this is something that all of us simply must face. To place everything in its proper perspective, Ooncordiensis was cut by $4051. We will simply cut our expenses where they can be cut. We have no choice but to live by those limits. We are confident, however, that those limits will never severely interfere with us putting out the best newspaper possible week after week. We will not, we hope, be forced to print only half the number of copies that we intended to, come spring term. We do not feel that it is the Finance Com- mittee's intention to put organizations in such a position. Instead, what we see is an effort to force clubs to operate on their bare minimum, and then to make · specific requests to spend above that minimum. The Finance Committee's intention is a good one. Many organizations pad their budgets in some way. This not only causes problems for the Finance Committee in evaluating the budget proposals, but it will inevitably cause many groups to suffer. One disturbing event that must be addressed is that at the Forum meeting, the proposed budget was presented as an all or nothing package. This is a potentially dangerous action to take. As was shown in the meeting, there are occasions when the goals of an organization are debated, and their money allocation questioned. The Forum should have been presented with the option of further investigation of some of the particular issues and problems posed by individual clubs. It seems a bit unfair for the Finance Committee to give Forum the ultimatum • •take it or leave it.\ The budgets are too important for that. The Forum should have been given the opportunity to take all the time it needed to be satisfied with the budgets, each and every one. The approach that McCaffery has taken is a different one from those in the past. He admits that the Committee was generous to those organizations whose budget requests were thorough and precise, citing that most of the cutting oc- curred when clubs were vague about what exactly they needed money for, and how they planned on spending it. This.\better safe than sorry'' approach of the Finance Committee is one that should insure a minimum ~of waste while insuring that every club has the funds, at least potentially, available if they are needed for a justifiable reason. There will undoubtedly be painful cries as the McCaffrey budget ax falls, but the cuts will insure that careful examinations of exactly where clubs are spen- ding money will occur, and the result will hopefully be that our student activity fee will be spent in the best possible manner. COIIliQeqtary To the Editor~ For the past several years I have been receiving issues of Concordieasis. from my Fraternity Brnthers. It seems as though Denny Cot:ltois is always getting .a big write-up in the track articles rutd yet never seems to be sel£cted Athlete-of~ the-Week. . I have never met Mr. Contois, but I felt as though I should try to giye him a little recognition he, and sn many of the student athletes at Unilm deserve . .I would like to extend my per- sonal thanks to Mr. Contois for keeping proud tradition of ·union sports alive. As a Union alum. I know bow hard it is to \hit\ the practice field when you have to \hit\ the books also. Excellence in both the gym and' the library is rare indeed and deserves . a great deal mure ree.ognition tllan it normally receives~ The e~­ ceptional job Mr. Contois has done is both a credit to his family and t() friends and college. Yours truly, J. Chance McReynolds '&3 F. Chanee McReyn<llds •n3 Winston.Salem, :('l.C. Lack of Concern Dear Editor: stttdent~politicll voice, and the · election pr~(!edure is their opportunitY for selecting the inaividual tbat would functivn properly and accordingly in t!l~ role of forum representative. I hope by next. spring's . student government election a greater display of concf!rn and interest will be made, especially by those members of the Junior Class. The greatiJ.ess of our institution, Union. and the principles upon whiclJ it is founded~ are only as lasting and functional as the amount of concern. trust, and interest which the student body demonstrates in electing those . people for office. Think about it, and don't be apathetic. Joe Cristofaro Chmn., ElectionsComm. Another View Dear EditQr: In yottr October 8 U!sue of Condordiensis an article en- titled \AWACS Sale Distur- bing\ was published. At this point I would like to thank you for publishing such a naive view of the situation. · Your article states; ''Further, -it did not make sense to attempt to ·woo the g.()vernment of a country that has never been noted for its stability with the most sophisticated military On behalf of the Student equipment that the United Forum and as the Eelction?s States c31lld build.'\ When was Committee chairman, I would the last · tbne the Sandia like to e.~press my disap- . government was unstable? Tmintmentat the lack of :concern Sandia Arabia bas been under Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editor Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Assistant Sports Editor Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Cartoonists Rachel I. Mandel, Paul Grossman Julie Isgro Naomi Blank Ed Albro Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox: Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Jay McDermott, Rob Norton Drew Hurley Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner David Neiblum, Lisa Snyder Staff Mandy Abrams, Steven Auerbach, Saul Berley, Alan Binkow, Nonnan Birnbach, Dan Booth, Thomas Ching, Barton Hill Levine, Doug Landon, Susan Linehan, Mike Meaney, Rich Mintz, Peter Mohr, Mark Mortensen, D. C. Owens, Eric Ruben, Amelia A. Terhune, Cindy J. Tenner, Roberta Rubenstein Business Staff Photo Staff Jenny Amler, Evelyn Gurdin, Dianne Pavacic Janet Guiliano, Norman Pflaster, Robert Tang, CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New, York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563--7151. Entered in.: the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription· rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSJS suBscribes to the College Press Service .(CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). the:~ sin~· Sau•H over l runni.t You the s AWA( sour~ would beforE acces Am(lr Ever • > inSall Arabi to the this I'( the I A met I i (Arat of thE have1 in its Thtl with, stronJ interr Saudi settin prev.i famil: regio1 Islam Wahl1 this majo1 Arabi sect This: ·Saud Laj write assru Egyl a gail Midd is a, that regio assm other with of th I r direc pape: artie: ressx mak• artie factn ticle~ read1 Deat I ' infor last Reat it ' derSI u not< the· affe. uppE Tll unle1 stud1 will \; ·next ; . ~: resi ., red1l writl · for COllE tlnat In o

OONCOR.DIENSIB, October·16, 1981 Page 7 Letters Editarials From Where_ I Stand: The ·Power of 1he Press By ALAN BINKOW It is very easy to criticize the government in this country. Everybody seems to be doing it. Republicans, Democrats, Independents, unions, management, the \average American,'' the Moral Majority; it seems like everybody has a bone to pick, from the NRA to the AMA, from Washington to Florida to Maine to Hawaii and every place in between. On the other hand, it seems to be very rare tha:t we ever hear from anybody supp()rting g()vernment policy. This is a puzzling phenomenon; clearly the government is elected, and those that elected it should occasionally support it. Why don't we hear from them? This is the government \For by, and of the people\; where are its supporters? Do they exist? Well,. they exist, ~ut they are not heard from. This is an example of the :pcwer that the media holds in this country. There is no way to be heard without going through the media. The media, by definition, encompasses any and all forms of ~.nass com- munication: newspapers, radio, TV. This still does not explain why we do not hear from govern- ment supporters. Why doesn't the media air all points of view? The media seems to feel an obligation to protect and defend the so-called \underdog\ in this country. This is somewhat justified, and has even proved beneficial to the nation; the Civ i1 Rights la w.s probably could not have passed without the media's dramatic coverage of the Civil Rights movement. (committee) blane their defeats on the press' forecast when the polls were just getting the after- work crowds. Then, there is the 1976 elec- tion, in which a \minor can- didate\ names Jimmy Carter did remarkably well in the early Iowa caucus; he was still way behind in the national opinion polls, but all of a sudden the press found him; and his campaign received headlines and coverage on all three networks every night. The media may have nominated underdog Carter over more ex:perienced and better qualiHed \establishment'' figures, such as Jackson and Udall. Peace Bombers Protection, however. can go too far. ,It can mean (and has meant) a form of self- censorship, editing all view.s opposite the \protected un- derdog'' one. The e:xarnples of this are many; I'll just mention two big ones: The press has also been known to hound and badger criminal suspects until they need court injunctions to get away. It has also been known to, by selective reporting, convince the nation of the guilt or in- nocence of such suspects before their trial is over. On occasion, the court has disagreed with the press' \verdict.\ The most recent example of the above is Wayne Williams, accused in the Atlanta murders. The press has been constantly pointing out that \no murders have been committed since he was .put under surveillance, while the trial is still running. By DANIEL ROSENFIELD Since the President made known his support for the B-1 bomber plan there has been opposition to the program. It is argued that the B-1 would not be ·deployable until 1986. This is too late to be worthwhile because the \stealth\ plane will be available in 1989, or so the opponents of the B-1 claim. Therefore, it is argueq, that it would be foolish to spend an estimate-d 200-300 million dollars on a plane that will.be in service for only three years. The major tenet of the B-1 opponents is that there will be an operational t'stealth\ plane in 1989, and until then, the B-52 bomber will suffice. Stealth, however, is just a theory that ha,s produced no functional technology so far. How then can anyone guarantee that in eight years there will exist an operational aircraft, when the B-1, which has been designed and prototyped, will not be deployed before 1986? The B-1 is merely a state of the art plane. It can' carry a larger and more diverse payload than any other bomber payload than any other bom- ber; the electronic coun- termeasures incorporated in the plane are among the most sophisticated. The B-1 is the besf plane of its kind that the constraints of today's technology allow. The only way a nation can remain free is to possess enough strength to deter any attempt at infringement upon that freedom. Therefore, the U rilted States must be-willing and able to fight for -that in whicb it believes. This creates the necessity of Il;laintaining military superiority. These are not the arguments of a warmonger. I do not want to go and fight any more than anyone else. However, only a fool would pretend that the threat of war does not exist and that looking the other way will make it go-away. 1) Nuclear power. Have you ever seen a gr<Jup favoring nuclear power mentioned in the press? I haven •t. The only groups I've see!l are the Abalone Alliance, tll!:! Union of Concerned Scientists, and other anti-nuclear groups. And yet, I know that pro-nuclear groups exist, lobby, carnp.aign, even picket. 2) Draft registration. A vast and overriding majority of our peers have register-ed for the draft. An extremely low per- centage have not. Why aren't the views of tlu former presented, in response to the lavish publicity given to special pleaders? The power of the press manifests itself in other ways, too. The most l>latant recent example is the TV coverage of the 1980 election, where forecasts of a Reagan landslide at 8:00 EST (5:0(} PST) caused extraordinarily low turnouts on the West Coast. Several defeated incumbents (notable Frank Church of Id.aho and AI Ullman of Oregon, C!ha:irman of the House Ways and Means The United States has the most free press. in the world. There is no censorship. Our courts have defended the lack of restriction on the media for over 200 years. I support that. But at the same tirile, all media, from Time, NBC, and Dan Rather all the way down to WRUC, Condordiensis, Union Views, and the Chronicle have a responsibility to the people. This responsibility entails presenting aU sides of issues. The place for media opinion is in editorials; I have no ob- jection to that. But reporting should be \Here is side A and here is side B; we support B because ------.\ The media owes this type of un- biased reporting because it is unrestricted; just as the government should not censor one side, neither should the pre!3s! Add experience to your degree. Facts indicate that you may work in three to five different careers. It won't be unusual to make changes as you go. And it's entirely possible that your final career doesnotev:en exist today. Often in a first job, you are an assistant to the assistant. Your responsibility is limited to a desk and typewriter. ... But when your first job is an Army 2LT,y-ou;ll have 1~eal management ex.peHence. You'll be in charge. On a specific job assignment, you could have 30 to 40people working for you. Ami you could be responsible for millions of dollars in equipment. Responsibility for people and resources is exactly the kind of \take charg-e\' experience civilian employers seek Jt•s a margin of difference in the increasingly competitive job market. P1·epare to-rise to the top in your field. Make your first job 3 or 4 years as an Arnw Officer. · If you have two years remaining in schoo 1, you can begin ROTC this summer. You'll he compensated financially; stimu)ated physic~lly and mentally. ro add expertence to your degree conta .. ct Call Cpt. Bill Terhune 783-2571 Anny ROTC. Learn what it takes to lead.

OONOORDIENSIS, October 15, 1981 Page 7 Your article continued1 \If saudis were to get the AWACS, I felt, as did certain sources in Washington, that it would only be a matter of time before the Russians would: gain to the secrets of th¢ American A WACS system.\ Ever sin-ce ·the discovery of oU in Saudia Arabia in 1933~ Sau.dia Arabia bas been strongly allied to the United States. Up to 11JIIO relation was earried on With the help ·of tbe Arabian American Oil Company ( Aramco). Saudia Arabia is one of the few Arab states not to have develbped a prff-8ovietline in its history. · The next J?aragraph followed with, HStability can only be as strong as the government. The internal confusion that exists in . :~-~,~•;·~~;.,\~tiiw~··(t ( ··tnat'sOthttwnr•tre·apptd fa-ee an . · unprecedented · reduction ···· in · · tbe traditional federal commitment oo quality education and access to higher education. I urge members of _the student body to take this threat seriously and to pick up a detailed copy of what was summarized in the Conoordy. It contains a • timetable for writing, the names and ad~ dresses of key members of Congress, an.d a form letter, It is avaUable in the Office of Financial Aid, 2nd floor, Beeker Hall. Again, I thank YtJU for y()Ur suppbrt and assistance in this vital effort. · Sincerely Robert J. Massa Director of Financial Aid Sandia Arabia makes an ideal .,... _________ _, Letters £ditorials from Where I Stand: The Power of the Press By ALAN BINKOW It is very easy to criticize the government in this country. Everybody seems to be doing it. Republicans, Democrats, Independents, unions, management, the \average American,\ the Moral Maj-ority; it seems Hke everybody has a bone to pick, from the NRA to the AMA, from Washington to Florida to Maine to Hawaii and every place in between. On the other hand, it seems to be very rare that we ever hear from anybody supporting government policy. This is a puzzling phenomenon; clearly the government is elected, and those that elected it should occasionally support it. Why don't we hear from them? This is the government \For by, and of the people\; where are its supporters? De they exist? Well, they exist, but they are not heard fram. This is an ex:ample of the power that the media holds in this country. There is no way to be heard without going through the media. The media, by definition, encompasses any and all forms of mass com- munication: newspapers, radio, TV. This still does not ex:plain why we do not hear from govern- ment supparters. Why doesn't the media air all points of view? The media seems to feel an obligation ta protect and defend the so-called \underdog\ in this country. This is somewhat justified, and has even proved beneficial to the nation; the Civil Rights laws probably could not have passed without the media's dramatic coverage of the Civil Rights movement. (committee) blane their defeats on the press' forecast when the polls were just getting the after- work crowds. Then, there is the 1976 elec- tion, in which a \minor can- didate\ names Jinuny Carter did remarkably well in the early Iowa caucus; he was still way behind in the national opinion polls, but all of a sudden the press found him; and his campaign received headlines and coverage on all three networks every night. The media may have nominated underdag Carter over more experienced and better qualified \esta blishmeRt\ figures, such as Jackson and Udall. setting for espiunage. ·>~ As I previously stated the Saud family has ~en in eootro1 of the region since l!},Pl. ;me sect of Islam in Sat.tdia Arabia ·is Wahhabi. It is very unlikely that this sect, wbich is the vast majority ofthe people in Sandia Arabia, will ever be ruled by a sect other than themselves. This adds to the strength of the Peace Bombers Protection, however, can go too far. It can mean (and has meant) a form of self- censorship, editin.g all views opposite the \protected un- derdog\ one. The examples of this are many; I'll just mention two big ones: The press has also been known to hound and badger criminal suspects until they need court injunctions to get away. It has also been known to, by selective reporting, convince the nation of the guilt or in- nocence of such suspects before their trial is over. On occasion, the court has disagreed with the press' \verdict.\ The most recent example of the above is Wayne Williams, accused in the Atlanta murders. The press has been constantly pointing out that \no murders have been committed since he was put under surveillance, while the trial is still running. Saud family rule .. Later in the article your writer states, ''. . • the assassinati(Jn of the pr~sident of Egypt, Anwar Sadat. Once again. the stability O'f the Middle East is in jeopardy/; It is a very limited view ta state that the stability of an entire region hinges on the recent assassinati()n. There are many other events that have to do with the 'stability or instability of the regiGn. l realize that this article is directed at the edirors of the • paper, and nut till~ autoor ·otthe article.. Hnwever,-·I feel itis the responsibtllty of th-e editor to mak~ · wril·''~rmr· aJl pub.li$]1ed articles 't\'r~ ~omet m theit' factuM data, and that the at:.; ticleSi' ar-e not ttliSleadtng to· the reader. · . ___ - ,.,_,_.-. Dear Editors!· I want to thtutk you !(}i' the informative artie'le you ran itt last week~s ·· Coneutd:y on· the Reagan budget cuts. Tc say that it was · timely is an ttn-- derstatement. · I fear that .s(Jme students may not comprehend the severity of the proposed cuts - they will affect t~ pQot as well as the upper ttliddle income student. . The iinportant point is thiS: unless opposition is voieed, students and c&lleges like Union will suffer· major losses in the ne:xt three years. We must resign ottrselves to S4'Jille reductions. But without the written expression of support for maintaining all aid to college stttdents, we will be unable to minimize these .cuts. In other words, unless we op- By DANIEL ROSENFIELD Since the President made known his support for the B-1 bomber plan there has been opposition to the program. It is argued that the B-1 would not be ·deployable until 1986. This is too late to be worthwhile because the \stealth\ plane will be available in 1989, or so the opponents of the B-1 claim. Therefore, it is argued, that it would be foolish to spend an estimated 200-300 million dollars on a plane that will be in service for only three years. The major tenet of the B-1 opponents is that there will be an operational \stealth\ plane in 1989, and until then, the B-52 bomber will suffice. Stealth, however, is just a theory that ha,s produced no functional technology so far. How then can anyone guarantee that in eight years there will exist an operational aircraft, when the B-1, which has been designed and prototyped, will not be deployed before 1986? The B-1 is merely a state of the art plane. It can carry a larger and more diverse payload than any other bomber pay1oad than any other bom- ber; the electronic coun- termeasures incorporated in the plane are among the most sophisticated. The B-1 is the best plane of its kind that the constraints of today's technology allow. The only way a nation can remain free is to possess enough strength to deter any attempt at infringement upon that freedom. Therefore, the United States must be willing and able to fight for that in which it believes. This creates the necessity of maintaining military superiority. These are not the arguments of a warmonger. I do not want to go and fight any more than anyone else. However, only a fool would pretend that the threat of war does not exist and that looking the other way will make it go away. 1) Nuclear power. Have you ever seen a group favoring nuclear power mentioned in the press? I haven't. The only groups I've seen are the Abalone Alliance, the Union of Concerned Scientists, and other anti-nuclear groups. And yet, I know that pro-nuclear groups ex:ist, lobby, campaign, even picket. 2) Draft registration. A vast and overriding majority of our peers have registered for the draft. An extremely low per- centage have not. Why aren't the views of the former presented, in response to the lavish publicity given to special pleaders? The power of the press manifests itself in other ways, too. The most blatant recent ex:ample is the TV coverage of the 1980 election, where forecasts of a Reagan landslide at 8:00 EST (5:00 PST) caused extraordinarily low turnouts on the West Coast. Several defeated incumbents (notable Frank Church of Idaho and Al Ullman of Oregon, chairman of the House Ways and Means The United States has the most free press in the world. There is no censorship. Our courts have defended the lack of restriction on the media for over 200 years. I support that. But at the same time, all media, from Time, NBC, and Dan Rather all the way down to WRUC, Condordiensis, Union Views, and the Chronicle have a responsibility to the people. This responsibility en tails presenting all sides of issues. The place for media opinion is in editorials; I have no ob- jection to that. But reporting should be \Here is side A and here is side B; we support B because ------.\ The media owes this type of un- biased reporting because it is unrestricted; just as the government should not censor one side, neither should the pre;5s! Add experience to your degree. Facts indicate that you may work in three to five different careers. It won't be unusual to make changes as you go. And it's entirely possible that your final career does not even exist today. Often in a first job, you are an assistant to the assistant. Your responsibility is limited to a desk and typewriter. ., But when your first job is an Army 2LT, you'll have real manag-ement experience. You'll be in charge. On a specific job assignment, you could havt> :w to 40 people working- for you. And you could be responsible for millions of dollars in equipment. Responsibility for peoplt> and resources is exactly the kind of \take eharge\ experience civilian employL'rs seek. It's a margin of difference in tlw increasingly competitive job markPt. Prepare to rise to the top in your field. Make your first job;~ or ·I yl'ars as an Army Offin~t: · Ifyou have tv.:o years remaining in school, you can begin ROTC this surnnwt: You'll be compensatt>d financial!~·; stimulated physically a_nd mentally. To add experietH'l' to your· dt.>gree contact Call Cpt. Bill Terhune 783-2571 Army ROTC. Learn what it takes to lead.

Page 8 OONOOBDIENSIB, October 15, 1S81 e . . tees . ' '\ l> ll .\ •• 'i.:.t1· .•• . . . :_, ~·c ~ ..... Ge;neral Nottices Wayne Nelson, a statistician with the General Electric Corporate Research and Development. Center, will discuss \Life Data Analysis in Industry\ on 1hursday, Oct. 15, at Union College. His talk will begin at 3:45 p.m. in Bailey Hall, room 207, and the public is welcome to attend WORKING WITH WOOD - . Shaping., cutting joining. A Demonstration of materials, techniques and ,tools by sculptor, Alex Markho~f. To be held 3,;5 p.m. October 21 in the sculpture studio, room 115, Arts Building. Everyone is welcome. Cabaret Waiters! Waitresses! Anyone interested in waiter-waitressing this term at Cabaret, please come to a meeting on Friday, Oct. 16, at 2 :00 p.In. in the Cabaret Room. 'Thurs~y, October 15, at 7:30 p.m. in S.S. No. 016. The Department of Modern Languages and the Minerva Committee present ~lie Garden of Delights part two of the .Fall Hispanic Film Series. Produced in 1970 by Carlos Saura, the movie centers on a rich in- dustrialist, stricken by · am- nesia. Color, with subtitles. The \Philosophy Forwn,\ a student group, will meet Wednesday, Oct. 21 at 9:00 .p.m. in the Humanities Lounge. The topic for discussion will be \Scientific Creationism.\ All students are welcome. The lunch table sponsored by the Forum will be held in the Pub Oct. 28, from noon to 1:30. All members of the college com- munity are welcome. The Intellectual Cabaret is hosting \Who Really Runs America?\ Monday, October 19, at 9:00p.m. in the Cabaret Room. Freshmen who seek any kind of assistance in biology or would like to study with other biology 011 Tile Otller froqt Biology Club The Biology Club invites yQu Body and Thought.\ Thursday, Oct. 29 from 12:30 to ·1 :30 in the Banquet Room. Topic: We Saw China and Lived to Tell the Tale! Encompassing an in- formal lecture and discussion on the Chinese Economy and Society, with Prof. Bruce L. Reynolds, Dept. of Economics and China Specialist. The price is 2.00. Give it to Mrs. Angus in the Economics Dept. by Friday, Oct. 23. o attend a student-faculty wine nd cheese party this Thursday, ct. 15, at 4:30p.m. in Strauss Stone Boat Club Mf'eting ..ounge. Ceteris Paribus The Union College Economics lub: Ceteris Paribus . . . esents the first \Food for Anyone interested in building and racing a canoe, the first meeting will be held Saturday at 10 !l.m. in BU 106. (You don't· have to be an engineer! ) Please Submit All Items for Nottices by 7:00 Tuesday. (TYPED!!) zenornttts Seven jexown AMERICAN WHISKEY A BLEND 'Q#.,{,~r'..h•..--~ ~ ;.,d,,M'--fo-1 ....t,la&=r/'~ .......... @> ·~llm.!OIIfiOI~UI.IitVIJM'ol(l(1~ ~fllll,:a.~::=-\~~tW:n5 try and western, . . d does coun . - - m's 7 & 7UP.. An so uality in rnoderatwn. . taste of Seagra & 7 Enjoy our q . . ith the e:x:citt.ng ds better with 7 . . -' • t~ L :::;::;::JJ:,~~~'\\'\'iOu stirs WI II Rock n &Seve• . Sere• .su.GMM DIS'DU.£ftS co., H.V.C. AM£RICNI M!ISKEY-A Bl!HD. eo PftOOF. '$~PH!P\ AIIO., ur AAt11\.\0£WRK!oF n;[SMN U~COUNJI~O ·~· -, ·students, come to Biology Back- • up every Tuesday and Thursday night from 7;00 to 9:.00 p.m. in the Ryan Room across. from the Biology office. Anyone interested in becoming a chairman ln the Union University Council, please contact Weldon Turner, 382-9029. On Tues., October 20, at 3 p.m. a representative from the Coro Foundation will be on campus to conduct interviews for post-graduate fellowships in public affairs. Coro offers a nine-month, internship oriented program in the study of the influence of power in the public and private sectors. An information session will be held at 3:00 p.m. followed by individual interviews. Interested students should sign up in advance at the Career Center beginning Friday, October 16, 1 :30 p.m. Contact Pat Matteo at the Career Center for more information. Tuesday, October 20, Spanish Table: Professors Diez- Herencia, Ihrie and Vinick invite all Spanish-speaking members of the college com- munity to join them at 12:30 in the Pub,. for conversation and lunch. All levels invited. O~ENDOOR 136 Jay Street Downtown Schenectady .. 346-2719 Thursday, October 15, 1981 Shows at 9 and 11 1st Act: MARY BONK VASKO PETE PERRONE CHRIS GAYNOR 2nd Act: The Band of:GREG MEYER KAREN WEISGERBER DAVE HAVILAN MC: ERIC R.UBEN Tickets are on sale at Box office in $1 Film Committee Presents WOR ORANGE onfri.,Saf.,Sun.(Oct.16, 17, 18) at 7:30 and 10:00 in, SS 016 · :Beer and Jlrncft 2Janctng, eo fun ··etc, .. /(ap~ srpna Syonsors ~7/ie SbUnJ, (p. , :PifJ/&tt : OU .(/iaye{ Jfme: Va-ts.: 5at: Oct: 11 S~1tpm ~ Ber m maki1 Cat mond Jea: . about ,tell le Bri~ Tri succe year • Tri PSYC Cha fessio Kar from windc Hat you n Kat floor? Cor in the Kat mond done Gul What DOE Brom Mu: ( Delt HAL] Sa turd will t bands, best c1 ~ I So Contin1 about to go, best t but i1 listen4 would sure, house words \Vine doubtl other vague perfot

Page 8 OONOORDIENSlS, October 15) 1981 e Ices General Nottices Wayne Nelson, a statistician with the General Electric Corporate Research and Deve1opment Center, will discuss \Life Data Analysis in Industry\ on .;I'hursday, Oct. 15, at Union College. His talk will begin at :3:45 p.m. in Bailey Hall, room 207, and the public is 1velcome to attend WORKING WITH WOOD - Biology Club The Biology Club invites you o attend a student-faculty wine nd cheese party this Thursday, ct. 15, at 4:30 p.m. in Strauss ...ounge. Ceteris Paribus The Union College Economics ~lub: Ceteris Paribus . >resents the first \Food for .Shaping., cutting joining. A Demonstration of materials, techniques and tools by sculptor, Alex Markhoff. To be held 3-5 p.m. October 21 in the sculpture studio, room 115, Arts Building. Everyone is welcome. Cabaret Waiters! Waitresses! Anyone interested in waiter-waitressing this term at Cabaret, please come to a Ineeting on Friday, Oct. 16, at 2:00 p.m. in the Cabaret Room. Thursday, October 15, at 7:30 p.m. in S.S. No. 016. The Department of Modern Languages and the Minerva Committee present The Garden of Delights part two of the Fall Hispanic Film Series. Produced in 1970 by Carlos Saura, the movie centers on a rich in- Body and Thought.\ Thursday, Oct. 29 from 12:30 to 1:30 in the Banquet Room. Topic: We Saw China and Lived to Tell the Tale! Encompassing an in- formal lecture and discussion on the Chinese Economy and Society, with Prof. Bruce L. Reynolds, Dept. of Economics and China Specialist. The price is 2.00. Give it to Mrs. Angus in dustrialist, stricken by am~ nesia. Color, with subtitles. The ••Philosophy Forum,\ a student group, will meet Wednesday, Oct. 21 at 9:00p.m. in the Humanities Lounge. The topic for discussion wiH be \Scientific Creationism.\ AH students are welcome. The lunch table sponsored by the Forum will be held in the Pub Oct. 28, from noon to 1:30. Ali members of the college com• munity are welcome. The Intellectual Cabaret is hosting ''Who Really Runs America?•' Monday, October 19, at 9 :00 p.m. in the Cabaret Room. Freshmen who seek any kind of assistance in biology or would like to study with other biology the Economics Dept. by Friday, Oct. 23. Stone Boat Club M~eting Anyone interested in building and racing a canoe, the first meeting will be held Saturday at 10 a.m. in BU 106. (You don't · have to be an engineer!) Please Submit All Items for Nottices by 7:00 Tuesday. (TYPED!!) $tll0f4ltt$ ~=~~ StV<n 'j'c.own AMERICAN WHISKEY A BLEND vi ,.,(,7 </ .£,,.-,.. \\-*' .,.,..;;t,;d,/a#-fk-1 ~ a tu= o/ \-- l\lfl'fitf'IV'<f@ II.FOtllthomiO\~oti~UI.GMf,llloUI~ ..._.__lfut~~~;:'~'/>r&~ill~'p\' _ · · t\\ and western. · d does coun. · J • . 's 7 & 7UR. An so lity ill- moderatton. . . ste ofSeagra~ & 7 Enjoy our qua . LtJlth the exctttng ta ds better wtth 7 . e t·L ~:JJ:::::::J~:::r\'~'\,ryth;;,, stirs WI II Rock Jl &SeJell . ·. s~en SEAGf!AMDtSTillERS co., H YC AMERICAN IMIISKEYooA 8UHD ao PRO<f UVEH uP J.tjD 7 UP' .. ~l tiU!OtWRKS or THE SfV[H UI'COUP.IJh'.O \~1 students, come to Biology Back- ~ up every Tuesday and Thursday night from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. in the Ryan Room across from the Biology office. Anyone interested in becoming a chairman in the Union University Council, please contact Weldon Turner, 382-9029. On Tues., October 20, at 3 p.m. a representative from the Coro Foundation will be on campus to conduct interviews for post-graduate fellowships in .public affairs. Coro offers a nine-month, internship oriented program in the study of the influence of power in the public and private sectors. An infonnation session will be held at 3:00 p.m. followed by individual interviews. Interested students should sign up in advance at the Career Center beginning Friday, October 16, 1:30 p.m. Contact Pat Matteo at the Career Center for more information. Tuesday, October 20, Spanish Table: Professors Diez- Herencia, lhrie and Vinick invite all Spanish-speaking members of the college com- munity to join them at 12:30 in the Pub, for conversation and lunch. All levels invited. 136 Jay Street Downtown Schenectady • 346-2719 Thursday 1 October 15, 1981 Shows at 9 and 11 1st Ac:t: MARY BONK VASKO PETE PERRONE CHRIS GAYNOR 2nd Act: The Band of: GREG MEYER KAREN WEISGERBER DAVE HAVILAN MC: ERIC R.UBEN Tickets are on sale at Box office in $1 Film Committee Presents LOCKWOR ORANGE on Fri •• Sat., Sun. (Oct. 16, 17, 18) at 7:30 and 10:00 in SS 016 :Beer and J4ncft 2Janctng. ·· fun • ·etc··, /(qp_pa; Sijma Syonsors ~1/ie Sound, (j,. \ jJ(tfllee: Ofd.(naye{ 7fme: iJeJte = 5a-t. Oct. 11 .9: ~~m - ;I : I ; ! I ! I I : ! I ! b • Ben Hi makin Catl mond Jear about tell le• Bria Tti succe~ year.: Tri· PSYC: Chal fessi01 Kar1 from win do· Lisa Hap you m Kar• floor? Corl in the Kat~ mond done i Gut What• Doe Bronn Delt~ HALl Sa turd. will h bands, best cc So Continu about to go< best t< but it listene would sure, 1 house words \Vine• doubtl other: vaguel perf or

• z- OONOORDIBNSIB, October 15, 1981 Page 9 ,. . :::--_-:: ·. 'v • e ·.: _;~~;_:~··: .:- ... · ', l . , __ b • . ~ . \- <:.'\' .. 1lo (I '-\-\' Jo· Q ~n.o Berna-dette-Whots Larry? Hi Dript We hear you're making quite a \spl$h. *' Catby-·Second floor Rich· mond is proud of ¥OU. . • ., ,. Jean and Cathy-The talk . about your loft is out. I'll never tell least of all Ron or Dave Brian-Wink twice you cadet. forget you. Let's find a Bagel Nnsh. · ) Perl.-McOonalds and Entenamans again'! YOU -PIG . Bruce-Wherefs my drink? Tease!!! . Amy-Where's my birthday drink? ' Musb-Where's my birthday drink? Tri 'Delta-Be . prClud. A Randy-You owe me a nights successful first rU$h and a great worth of drinks ··for aU those year ahead. Love~ Chappy haircuts. How about a shower instead? Tri·Oitllta PSYCSD Pledges-Get Maria-Woo .. was that family you were with at· VanDykes- Chapp:ts do it witho91 oon- .Again. ·· fession. '.tsk, tsk. · . : Eoonomics 42-DQn't worry- Karen ¥:~--$pot any · A.L, 1 S · we 1 ll make it through. from your 3rd floor North window-? Wink Twice Mr. Bill. Usa..,.hi Cutie-Smile. Happy Birth~Y Soott! ! l Miss you mu(:bo. · Sweet cheeks? . Tl'yst? I must be losing \IDY mind, I thought you re~ly di,d say Sweet Cheeks. It's okayf Delicious Drawers. . Karen whu? Are yuu o.n my - floor??? To all TriwDelts~ Thanks for y()u love and support. Y-our Corky-oon•t get wrapped up faithful pearlst Kato and' JellY in the sheets again this year. Bean. · Kate-Great Paint job. Rich- \IH-What.did you order ••. mond and South couldn't have fettucbini? done it withoout ymi ·· · -.,...,. .. ----- ......... -- Traceyand Dad-Thanks for a Gutts .. ..Qreen thumb~lady. wGnderful evening!! What a beautiful twig you have. Ktd..;;.I always new 17 was· an Does anyone know where unlucky number! PM Bronner is?! Bronner HO:use-where the Mush-See? I could 'never foodisgoodandsoarethe iris! .. q Tile Greek froqt Halloween Party Delta Upsilon's 112th ·annual HALLOWEEN PARTY Saturday, October 31. There will be beer, punch, 2 live bands, and door prizes for the best costumes. Soun Continued from page 4 about how his music was going to go over. The crowd did their best to eliminate these>doubts, but it was evident· that the listeners were not what one would call 'devoted' fans. To be sure, there wasn't a fan in the house that didn't know the words to \American Pie\ (and \Vincent\· as· well),' but it is doubtless as to how many of his other songs sounded more than vaguely familiar. Had he been performing here a decade ago, DUBUS Bus to Union-RPI football game. Leaves from D.U. Cost is $5.00 which includes all the beer you can drink. Call 382•9272 for details or bring your cash today. Delta Dining Tri-Delta needs Stewards! The job will include free board. It's a great deal-minimal work, and you get to eat with 40 great girls. For more information, call Gigi at 382-9147 or 6444. VVe are sorry to inform you that \The Louis George Band\ will not be able to play at our party Saturday night. However, come and see the Capital District's hottest new band, the \Love Pilots'' at Delta Upsilon's 63rd annual OKTOBERDRUNK Saturday, October 17. he might have received a great deal more enthusiasm, but times change and it seems that McLean's songs (sadly) are not quite \where its at\ today. McLean is an incredible musician, and no one has the right to 'knock' his talent. · But McLean himself summed up the situation best when he kiddingly introduced one of his own songs as \Something you might have heard in an elevator lately\. Mary~~Congratulations! It was close but I knew you'd win! Pam The Electric Horseman~­ Thanx for the dinher. Got tbru the smoke and ftte. Now what?- Ride needed to exit 18- Dear Roomie-Here•s to .Jn.. dependence . and the world realizing we•re not siameze twins! May we both have a great Junior year. LOvet H. To my roomies and friends, Deb and Pam (Oscar?)- remember Cheryl~-the party girl? BIRD: How are those ears? Jimmy G.-I think I'm in love. s. . Fab 4-I m~s you my friends- itjs lonely at the top. For the SDT Sisters-We are PSYCHED-but it gets lonely by 10! T.F.S.F.M.B.S. My Special Delta Friends- Espe!!).ally D.R., T.H., A.H., M.S.-We'll always be sisters in spiri~. Rm. 360-Fine Examples You are!! . . . • . - Jean~ You're the best friend I could ever have! LJC Saltman--I'm sorry. Saltd woman Thanx to everyone who made my birthday great! !-Allyson Tri-Delt-We still love you- 2nd floor Davidsnn South Miss Piggy never takes out Chinese. King-You pussycat. Second Floor Richmond has got the crabs. Beware of D. & M. Schneider--Don't fall out. Nobody will be there to catch you! {E~cept for Howdy Doody? )_:PM T.F .S.F. Freshp.eople-You're ALL LUSHES!!! But we love Pos--Alias Debra--Hi big you anyway! Stop the musical ~ Foot. Love you: Big Mouth bedst-T.F.S.F. - . V .S., L.S:t NLG.~ E.M •. ,.. Finding 4 frlends ... rigbt on the doorstep is the nicest discovery of all! M.B.--Bappy impending Birthday! Feeling Old! !-R.L.S. Dave L.-8orry we let you down! Better times are ahead.- B. To_ the DDD Pledges-- Congratulations nn ynur pledging. YQu are the greatest and we love you. Delta Love, Your sisters ·· · · : · Rick-Please take mef I need a home or 'else I'm Chinese dinner~ Love, Binky (Allias shitbead) Mr. Moon, Moon, Trl-Delt- Silver .. Moon-Won.'t you please shine on. on me. ~- J. \V.: ·& a.s.~•o\' ~bout · Q fri~ndty.elUlt~~Li · .. ·····:.·· : . _- : - ~> ._·. _;':o · · ·;,_. _;:~~;.::;-~--;-· ~J,-.:_-- .-:;:.:_~-~-- _;_-~{r.;~·-:·----:· _ _.. ~~ .:, !:,-o; :- -: _, M.D •. .;..tl{lve\l!n3r ·s· l.oot 2 ·lntt · teddy.hea~li · · ·lin~: <1r~f:vvee a little water. can Brew-You're the big brother I always wanted-Thanks, Take good care of my little sister! Mark K-Glad to have you aboard. Get psyched for a gt>eat · year!! !-The Crew Cobes-If you want a break, go to McDonalds. - Seppi-lucky she wasn't on your lap. TM-\I still get butterflies about you-come by for a slice. B. traey, A fourteen year old?? Spacey, Thanks for the munchies! You're the greatest! The See(md Floor Pigs Glennf Let's go dancing in the aisles of Price Chopper again soont More broccoli and cheese sauce? Film Committee Presents ·\' Mel Brooks' BLAZING SADDLES You don't want to miss this one! I Wed., Oct. 21 at 7, 9 and 11 BEWARE Friday the 13th is coming Kens-clean your bed. OINK, OINK!! Kelly-You spogehead Val-How about Putsky and Peabody joining in photosyn- thesis. No Erik-it's no orgy. Binky-We will always love youi Tri-Delta Amy and Rita-Think in terms of triplicate! I Spaeetwinkies UNITE! ! Kelly-Too much wine--tsk, tsk. Better use those curlers to soak it up. Cathleen-Wonl is out you are into laces?? . Marc-Great ZA!! . Allison and Joyce-How about another Chopper Run? Don't forget a eQmpass~ ·· Amy and KJ(;lti~I~ve got a bottle~f1Stib.\)l;}!\ A1J:(t'YOll·I$1Ule?. Miellell<& C.-N&t annthe,-r gUY tonightl! , · Cof'!r, did y:ou enjny your tri . .. oye.r tbiL;\vtrec? ... .. . .... Schedule of Religious Services Catholic Sun 7:30 Stra.uss lounge Je~ish- Fri 7:30 Kosher Kitchen (West) Protestant Sun 6:30 Strauss Lounge (Carnegie)

d l I ' ' I : I ' I l I l ' '~ 0 t Bernadette-Who's Larry? Hi Dript We hear you're making quite a <>sp-la:sb.\ Cathy--Second floor Rich~ mond is proud of you. Jean and Cathy-The talk about your loft is out. I'll never tell least of all Ron or Dave Brian-Wink twice you cadet. Tri 'Delta--Be proud. A successful first rush and a great year ahead. Love, Chappy Tri-Delta Pledges--Get OONOORDIEN818, October 15, 1981 • Ices JAB 1 ersoqa s forget you. Let's find a Bagel Nosh. Perl-·McDon.alds and Entenamans again? YOU ·PIG Bruce-Where's my drink? Tease!!! Amy-When~'s rny birthday drink? ' Mush-Where's IllY birthday drink? Randy- You owe me a nights worth of drinks for all tbuse haircuts. How about a shower instead? MaryM·Congratulations! It was close but I knew you'd win! Pam The Electric Horseman~­ Thanx for the dinner. Got thru thesmokeandfire. Nowwhat?- Ride needed to exit 18- Dear Roomie-Here's to in- dependence and the world realizing we're not siameze twins! May we both have a great Junior year. LOve, H. To my roomies and friends, Deb and Pam (Oscar?)- remember Cheryl--the party girl? BIRD: How are those ears? Jimmy G.-I tbink I'm in love. s. Fab4-I miss you my friends- it'S lonely at the top. For the SPT Sisters-We are PSYCHED-but it gets lonely by 10! T.F.S.F.M.B.S. My Special Delta Friends- Espe~ially D.R., T.H., A.H., M.S.-We'll always he sisters in spirit. Rm. 360-Fine Examples You arel! Page 9 Jean, Y~u're the best friend I could ever have! LJC Saltman-·l'm sorry. Salt· woman Thanx t() everyone who made my birthday great! !-Allyson Tri•Delt-We still love you- 2nd floor Davidson South Miss Piggy never takes out Chinese. King- You pussycat. Second Floor Ftichrnond has got the crabs. Beware of 0. & M. PSYCHED Maria-Who was that family you were with at VanDykes- Chappy's do it without con- .Again. Schneider--Don't fall out. Nobody will be there to catch you! (Except for Howdy Doody?)-PM T.F.S.F. Freshp.eople-You're ALL LUSHES!!! But we love Pos-·Alias Debra*·Hi big you anyway! Stop the musical . Foot. Love you: Big Mouth beds!-T.F.S.F. . fession. Tsk, tsk. ----~----- Economics 42-Don't worry- Karen M.-spot any A.L.'s we'll make it thro1.1gh. from your 3rd floor North window? Wink Twice Mr. Bill Lisa-hi Cutie-Bmile. Happy Birthday Scott! ! ! Miss you mucho. Karen who? Are you on my Sweet cheeks? T'ryst? 1 must be losing ·my mhl-d, I thought you really did say Sweet Cheeks. It's ()ka:y, Delicious Drawers. floor??? To all Tri-Delts,. Thanks for you love and Stq>port. Your Corky-Don't get wrapped up faithful pearls, KE~to and Jelly in the sheets again this year. Bean. · Kate-Great Paint job. Rich~ \l\-What did you order •.. mond and South couldn't have fettuehini? done it witboout you. ~-------·---- Gutts--Green thumb-lady. What a beautiful twig you have. Tracey and Dad-Thanks for a wonderful evening l ! Ktd-1 always new 17 was an V.S., L.S:, NLG., E.M.·- Finding 4 friends-right on the doorstep is the nicest discovery of all! M.B.--Happy impending Birthday! Feeling Old!!-R.L.S. Dave L.-8orry we let you down! Better times are ahead.- B. To the ODD Pledges-- Congratulations on your pledging. You are the greatest and we love you. Delta Love, Your sisters Rick-Please take me, I need a home or ·else I'm Chinese dinner. Love, Binky ( Allias shithead) Brew-You're the big brother I always wanted-'Thanks, Take good care of my little sister! Mark K-Glad to have ycu aboard. Get .psyched for a great ·year! !!-The Crew Cobes-If you want a break, go to McDonalds. Seppi-lucky she wasn't on your lap. TM--I still get butterflies about you-Come by for a slice. B. Traey, A fourteen year old?? Spacey. Thanks for the munchies! You're the greatest! The Second Floor Pigs Does anyone know where unlucky number! PM Bronner is?! Br()nner House-where the Mr. Moon, Moon, Tri~Delt- Mush-See? I could 'never food is good and so are the irls! SilverMMoon-Won 't you please Glenn, Let's go daneing in the aisles of Price Chopper again soon! More broccoli and cheese sauce? ;=::;=:::::=:=;;;;;;=::=:;;::::=:==;=:=;;:::=:::::;~ shine on, on me. Q T~e Greek frc11t Soun s .. • Continued from page 4 about how his music was going to go over. The crowd did their best to eliminate these doubts, but it was evident· that the listeners were not what one would call 'devoted' fans. To be sure, there wasn't a fan in the house that didn't know the words to \American Pie\ (and \Vincent\ as well), but it is doubtless as to how many of his other songs sounded more than vaguely familiar. Had he been performing here a decade ago, DUBUS Bus to Union-RPI football game. Leaves from D. U. Cost is $5.00 which include::; all the beer you can drink. Call 382-9272 for details or bring your cash today. Delta Diiring Tri-Delta needs Stewards! The job will include free board. It's a great deal-minimal work, and you get to eat 'With 40 great girls. For more information, call Gigi at 382-914:7 or 6444. We are sorry t~ inform you that \The Louis George Band\ will not be able to play at our party Saturday nigllt. However, come and see the Capital District's hottest new band, the \Love Pilots\ at Delta Upsilon's 63rd annual OKTOBERDRUNK: Saturday, October 17. he might have reC!eived a great deal more enthusiasm, but times change and it seems that McLean's songs (sadly) are not quite \where its at\ today. McLean is an incredible musician, and no one has the right to 'knock' his talent. But McL-ean himself summed up the situation best when he kiddingly introduced one of his OWil songs as \Something you might have heard in an elevator lately\. J.W. & R.S.-How about a friendly cbat?-RLB M.D.-I love my 5 f{)ot 2 inch teddybear-B Pup: Great weekend-Nothing a little water can't fix. Pup. Randi, I'm glad you're around. Who else eould I listen to Fresh Air with! L Yo Fred, the word is awesome! Your 21st finally. AML,P F~lm Committee Presents Mel Brooks' BLAZING SADDLES You don't want to miss this onef! Wed., Oct. 21 at 7, 9 and 11 BEWARE Friday the 13th is coming Kelly-Clean your bed. OINK, OINK!! Kelly-Y<>u spogehead Val..-.How about Putsky and Peabody joining in photosyn* thesis. No· Erik-it's no orgy. Binky-We will always love you·! Tri-Delta Amy and Rita--Think in terms of triplicate! ! Spacetwinkies UNITE! ! Kelly-- Teo much wine--tsk, tsk. Better use those curlers to soak it U!}- Cathleen-Word is out you are into laces?? Marc-Great ZA! ! Allison and Joyce-How about another Chopper Run? Don't forget a ~mpass. Amy and . Katie-l've got a bottle {lf Bttbbly. Are you game? Michelle C.-Not another guy tonight!! Cury, did you enjoy your trip \over the wire? Schedule of Religious Services Catho lie Sun 7:30 Strauss Lounge Jewish '· Fri 7:30 Kosher Kitchen (West) Protestant Sun 6:30 Strauss Lounge (Carnegie)

Page 10 OONOOBD1BN818~ October 15, 1981 Stickers Faltering 0 - 0 ..c: 0. l ~. / # FH Co-captain Lisa Stem vs. Oneonta Harriers Win· By TRISHMORIARTY tTllimtwomen's cross. <mtJnky team, led by first place .finisher Inge S~ockman, easily beat Trinity College and squeaked by a surprised Williams College squad on Saturday in central Pad:~ Umtin beat Trinity 23~32, and .qpset Williams in a very close, Pace by a 27-39 seote. · O'Ve.-~ence on the·part of ~i- tiiC\\!J~t~a~ was ~ of .~ ~--~ ·· tfr~ -~-i,.., tJmon's:~:v:ie~~Y· ·lf-4' . • ·'Jb'e-- .~nwqlJim's-. ret;atWely ffi,~ ·..- po(it-·'sli~ at an invitationaL ~P··. a.W~·a·few· w• ago, 'T'. ,.~· .... ~the~~ ~~would -~;·;-.-:: ~~~oi ti(Mrt7t~lO\aekh!ttUB. ,:,$••,;. , ·led.· ;·W.tlfta$& ~ e\pect a ~;· ' · · sw~~pmg victory. Rut a record ·· ~·run~M-:25)~ySt~an improvem~t.'' The women were not the only victors in the park this weekend. The men, led by Ed· Arnheiter and David Dellebunt, were also successful in their race with Trinity. It was final kicks by Denny ContoiS< and John Casale that made the difference there. And on Sunday coach Russ Ebbets finished third in a race on the· 2.85- mile course. - On ~atlirttay the squad will travel: to Hartwick College irr Oneonta, NY, to compete in the> ll~r.tw.h:k l'nvitation.al.· Mart:.. wic:k's billy,, difficult couJ:St\ as wei:l. a!t·· rrwmers from: many coltegest, ·should make this · a. tongh invitational for·- the women. By JUDIE STEINHARDT On Monday, October 12, the women's field hocltey team lost to Vassar, 3-1. It was the team's sixth loss of the season of seven games played. They tied Middlebury 1-1, lost to Russell Sage 2-1, lost to Hamilton 1.:0, lost to Smith 4-1, lost to Oneonta- 5-1, and lost to Manhattan ville 2· 0. Coach Marty Morrison believes the team's poor record is due to a number of changes. First, the new astroturl field made a big difference because it required adjustments in playing style. Now that they're accustomed to the astroturf, the Dutchwomen are at a major disadvantage when they travel to other schools and }}lay on natural grass. The second reason the girls aren't winning is that most of the goal scorers from last year's team have graduated. The team is quite good defensively, but they're lacking the ability to sustain an attack, according to Coach Morrison. She says that it is very hard to score without this ability. The third readjustment involves the fact that the letter winners from last year had. to take new positions which they were not used to. Some of the playersreturning from last year include: Lisa Stern, a seniorand one of the co- captains; Kirsten Peterson,- also a senior, and the other co- captain; Sue Ensel.,. a junior who 1 has been on varsity . since She was. a freshman.; HQlly Howard, a junior wbo has UPCOMING WOM.E.N'S SPORTS · Fl ELD HOCKEY: 10-15 Skid·more A & B 10'\ 17 Siena. 10-19 Hartwick 10-20 RPI B TENNIS: 10-15 Skidmore 10:.19 Hartwick 10-21 RPI VOLLEYBALl: 10-15 leMoyne 10 .. 21 Skidmor~, Siena CROSS: COUNTRY:·. T&- 11 Hartwi~ck• tn~y SOCCSR: ·· ' 10~ lS. Hamt.tton 19·11 . ~Pl· · 10- l9· Siena T0-22· RP~ · • .: • J \ 1 ' . . '. ' . ~ .. ! •• '!'.' l~30 A ll :00 . H 3:30 H 4:00 A .r.oa . A 3:3(l H 3:::00' A .£:, nno ... Ar . ..,..- .. ~. ,..' :1- ~ r:OOJ :·A - ' \ _ .. ; s: ' . ;(:. ft. ·I ... ., ' •. fJr,1\ ...._ \ ~ : ..... as:1tl~~as:.strong perfotmilnces ~~> by;-: ·\ elle Chernaik .. €,t1.:01), VB· ~ • . B k .:f}~· ;~~ ~~(~7H:)~~~:: , ··. ~OIIDD'~ ae: · .. ···· ~~~;~_ ·~ .. !11°.a. ·l,~:~.!~]L ~ t~!!! · ·. · - \'\\ • .. t.: u. o:nrcr~ -~~e~ ·· . . , ... ;f:,.; \' . (~l:. . :i),-- ttl&-. pi~~,ii. filr ~ . ·' ;By CAWY GIFlfOitD ~.' !~~~. ·~~h: R~::~i::tafter . 'the p~· week was a time of' ~'~·~: .. ~;t-ae~,'~The William6:.~aeh ~b~(!}ing for the Wom¢A\s. c\' . tbollpt , . h~ was . sly. Varstty Volleyball team. Oi'lce. ·:·. Cong~atnlations to the ·.girls- ~gain. t~ . team had a new i. •\' ' , .. 'f. ,,. '/\ _{ · yoa ~t one of the top New li~eup, w1th the return of AJilY EngllU!dwomen's teams. There Hmshaw, recovered from ankle was significant improvE!Jflent p~oblems, and the loss of Cath~ since the. Hamilton meet, with G1fford due to tendon problem~, Janice the leader in ersonal the team only managed to get In · · one practice with this lineup Anyone interested in before the squad travelled to Williamstown, Ma., on Thur· writint for Women's sday, October 8. \The team · Sllll..._ p· ·t.. ............... played well, considering the • r.\~.a:~; • . ~ease COnHIVt- circwnstances,. and we had a . . ;·-.eo;., lewkowfca g.ood lineu[)'; one that 1 hav:e · been trying to play since the (oneordy office lue.·tc~ .. · ay . start of' the season,'' com· • mented Co.acb Lynn Barta. At rt .· ts or at 6471' 1!!8 State University &f New York at Albany cordially invites you to attend its ANNUAL GJMDUATE SCHOOL INF():RMATION DAY wec;r,.:.~c,,JCt(J•Iler· 21~: 19&1 . ~4J•M . . ' · t&me~:find talf<.<\wlth 'represilntati~~t · ftQm graduate Si:h~ois-ln the Northeast who wilt provide information on degree programs, admission requirements, financial aid, etc. The gaines at Williams provided the squad with enough practice to overwhelm Russell Sage on Homecoming Saturday, October 10. Union · outplayed Sage 15-,5, 15-2, and 15-9 in a best-of-five match. the season is beginning to pull together for the Dutchwomen and they will face a tough· test Octob4iJr: 13 at home against Albany and on- Thursday, October 1'5·, at LeMoyne .. CROSS COUNTRY: (.Record: 3~3} SOCCER: t Record: U-2) Electric-Boat is the worfd's foremost designer and builder of nuclear submarines- one of the great engineeringchall~ng.es of this century. With a$3 billion· backlog and long-tenm cont(acts, ·~ Electrie. ~~at offetts career opportU!~t!tieg ir:t nearly. ..~ _ .. ~~fl every ~.Mgin.eering discipline {1ncluclf{'lg;ste-ctrigat, ·. , · · rnechanic.;:tl,,~ivil, etc.). t€lp ~vamd penefits,'. ' ·;-:. ' . . tong~~·stability' apd'·a;rt4:~~~ijedJife~ty-!e·:: . .- L:;~ .'r; · onth(f~outh~rn.NewEngta~tf.t~ea~.b'ast.: . . ·!:: : ~~ .. ~f~ . U.S. C<1i~nsh<p.required -~nEqt/aiOPPQckldit)t l;nipl<;>y~t111~F. He GENERAL DVNAMIC:!S. Electric Boat Division, The Besr Shipbuilding Team In America Grolon. CT 06340 Electric Boat Di,vision will be intel'viewlng on campus on October 29, 1981. Please contact the Placement Office for time and place. greatly improved her game; Emily Monosson, a very skilled left winger; and Bernadette Albanese, a player good at bringjng defense and attack together. They are all playing well, but face difficulties in combining their skills. They either play a good defensive game or a good midfield game, but never- both simultaneously. The girls ~ust get used to all the changes and learn to organize their :;;kills before they can have .a winiiing season. There are about four more games to go and, hopefully ,they will be able to improve their record. 13est of luck, -nutcnwomen! Intramural: Spikers Foxy .. Ml;i~'$ ' d'efeate·«i Gen~ Rfs~.· in;. two. games last Monday ~Y a scQte of 15'41 and 15-1. Die~on's Villet\'s llttnded Fourth. FlOor West· a·los$, ·by . beating. them· With scores.of l:S-6 and 15-13! ln the 8 p.m. game, Jeannette•!$;,. . Gravy Girls defeated>. tl:}~ ·~!yin Nuns,.. 15-1. arid 15-9!.: .. '}}he J'l.igflteap gam& was .biih;Ugktetf ;. \ll,itn ·JUl .. , beating \VJltf W-flt.nen: .lft-~ Mtb g~mes • .-;:~~wi tll~~tr ~tun.w'~ intra~~~ !~eyoo .• itlJ. ~:Jf!s ·~ .. ·:·~,~. ~. · great s~y. eolile' -~; .~q:~port. . your fa~e· tfam · .. , .•.. Not~i;~:•~kfe~~~Yl.~~· the we.-~~,; ·b~kga~~~~·· . , tour.ooy-.;~\''•ld~a.t~iDlG~ .. OctoOO,r,~-.a~s~\tlP' Wilti·\'\ ·. the 1~:m:ur~t . office b<y~· October ttt.; _ . ; , · ·. -. -. _ '\ '• 0 +- 0 .£: c. r.: 0::: B This theW« by ere Arnhe Both honor forma cross' Ed f twent: Trinit~ for the coursE coursE the Trinit~ these: Ed Jnech~ Athle1 Witt NBA fading seasor of us North• better New, NetS,l provtd their I F.or seas or year.· Chic a Houst1 crown year. comp< Rober years matu1 figur1 defem been 1 went! cham] Parisi Along bread Archil it Wot Bosto1 Charl1 Jack~ BostoJ backc year' inevit The huge over fine r was Chic a slugg forml prorn1 Mike durin Mich;: Ray'

ed at ck in ey to re b&- . • • ' ..... ; .. - VI • ' ':,~· ~; J~ ' }·- - Athletes of the Week 0 - 0 .c c. r.: tl:: By MIC~EL SHARP This week's Miller Athlete of the Week honors will be shared by cross country runners Ed Arnheiter and Inge Stockman. Both runners earned their honors by outstanding per~ formances in Homecoming Day cross country meets. Ed finished first in a field of twenty-three in the Union- Trinity meet. His time of 25:59 for the five mile Central Park course was eight seconds off the course record. His time helped the Dutchmen overpower Trinity for their second win of the season. Ed is a junior :with a mechanical engineering major. He is from Selkirk, N.Y. where he attended Ravena High School. At Ravena, he was the outstanding senior on the ·cross country team. He placed fourth in the New York State meet, and he set three track records. At Union, E~ earned Varsity· letters for two years of cro~s country, twG years of indoor track, and two years of outdoor . track. He is a member of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. Inge Stockman took a first place finish out of twenty-four runners in a triangular women's meet against Williams and Trinity. For the-; ; 442.84 mile Central Park course, Inge had a time of 16:25. Her per- formance contributed to Athlete of the Week lnge Stockman \O.T. II By DAVE RUDEN With Boston's charge to the NBA championship now a fading memory, this year's season is almost upon us, Those of us fortunate to live in the Northeast will see some of the better talent in the league .. The New York Knicks, New Jersey Nets, and Boston Celtics will all provlde exciting moments for their faithful fans. For the Celtics, the 1981-82 season should be a repeat of last year. The team that blew past Chicago, Philadelphia and Houston to capture last year's crown should be even better this year. One often overlooked component of the team is center Robert Parish. After a few so-so years at Golden State, Parish matured into a dominating figure both offensively and defensively, He might have been the real reason the Celtics· went from a playoff team to a championship team. Not that Parish did it all by .himself.- Along with Larry Bird, ''Corn- bread\ Maxwell, Tiny ~rchibald, and Kevin McHale, tt would have been difficult for Boston not. to win. Rookies Charles Bradley and Tracy Jackson should strengthen Boston's only weak spot, the backcourt. A repeat of last year's success may • be tnevitable. The Knicks are a team with a huge question mark looming oyer their heads. Following a fine regular season, the team was picked . apart by the Chicago Bulls.Jn the playoffs. A sluggish backcourt per- formance in that series pr~mpted the team to acquire Mike Newlin and Randy Smith during the offseason. With Michael Ray ·Richardson and &y William~ (if he does. not go elsewhere) the Knicks will have ample scoring, hut who will play defense? The front court is also a q\,lestion mark. At center, Bill Cartwright (out 4-6 weeks with knee problems) and Marvin Webster give the team a good offensive-defensive dimension, respectively. Sly Williams, Campy Russell and DeWayne Scales head a decent forward dorp with Larry Demic, Greg Cook and Alex Bradley (the latter two rookies) also seeking spots on the roster. A power forward who can rebound is needed. If the question marks fall into place this team is a serious contender. New Jersey will be the scene for one of the big turnarounds in the league. With a new stadium, a new coach, and many new faces the Nets will be an ex- citing team. Larry Brown's roster resembles an A.C.C. All- Star Team with rookies Buck Williams, Albert King (Maryb1nd) joining second year pros Mike Gminski (Duke) and Mike O'Koren (North Carolina). Ray TQlbert, a member of last year's NCAA Championship Indiana Hoosiers should also contribute. Also ·on hand are Otis Birdsong and Foots Walker in the backcourt, and Maurice Lucas and Mike. Woodson up front. Once everyone learns each other's name, the team .should jell into a solid one. This is a transition year so patience is needed, however the Nets should jump in front of Washington in the standings. When playoff time falls around the Celtics should be in first place, with Philadelphia and New York fighting for · second and third. New Jersey should find thetnselves solidly in fourth with the Bullets sinking to· tlle cellar.. · Union's upset victory over heavily favored and undefeated Williams . Inge is a junior from East Greenbush, N.Y. where she attended Columbia High School. Herfreshmanyear at Union.she was the top female cross .country runner and the home ·course record holder. Congratulations to Ed and Inge and the best of luck to Union cross· country in the future. To all Athlete of the Week award winners: trophies are available. Please call 382-9029 and ask for Jay, Rob or'Dtew so that you may receive your award. · ,-!'>•' ~(:;.~~« ~ .. . ,.,:: Athlete of the Week Ed Arnheiter Ruggers Drop Close One ByS.F.C. If you had been walking across campus Saturday to watch the parade or the football game and came upon a strange occurrence happening on Library Field, you may have just witnessed your first rugby game. Yes, that big pileup of . garnet and white shirts and white a~d orange shirts was actually a regulated form of sport. If you stayed around for a while you would have soon found out that the garnet and white belonged to the Union Rugby Football Club while the white and orange belonged to the VASSAR RFC. And if you actually hung around to the game's exciting finale, you would have seen Vassar narrowly defeat Union 7-6 with a touchdown in the final minute. At the outset of the game Union totally dominated the play as the ball was in play the majority of the time at Vassar's end. But with a few costly penalties and several fine kicks by Vassar's defending fullback, ! ,._ ~ .... - \\· ..,.. - :~--\~--~~;:;; : . .II the Union ruggers were unable to push the ball over the Vassar goal line. Then, after a Vassar surge and a Union penalty, the visiting team placekicker split the uprights with a penalty kick puttil)g the Vassar RFC on top with a 3...0 lead going into halftime. Coming out after the five minute halftime, neither team dominated as the play wavered back and forth between the teams. Then, as Union pushed the ball downfield, 3oe Cardino pushed it over the endzone for what appeared to be a score but was called back when the referee made a late call on a knock-on {illegal forward movement of the ball). As play resumed, again neither team could claim domination as the ball was pushed equally up and down the fiel~. With Jless than five minutes left in the game, Cardino again had a chance to score as he squeezed through the Vassar defense and put the ball in the endzone, this time making the score stick. Tri-captain Tom ',·\-j Wayne Godlin eludes the Vassar tacklers Conway then kicked the tw~ point bonus through making the score 6-3 in Union's favor. Then with less than a minute left to play, Vassar was allowed a throw-in deep in Union territory. Here a Vassar defender tipped the ball through the Union defense into the end- zone as another Vassar linesman pounced on it for a touchdown. This fulfilled the scoring as Vassar just nipped the Union ruggers 7-6. There wre also several Union ruggers who turned in · fine games. On the line making some aggressive runs were Keith Dean and Paul Cun- ningham. In the serum at- tacking with hard hits were Ron Slosberg and Jody Karlan. . The URFC moves on to the Berkshire Tournament in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, this Saturday where they will be competing against seven other teams for the championship cup. The Club is still looking for new players so anyone inter- ested should report to West College Field ready to practice at 4:00 Tuesday through Friday. Union's ''Ultin1ate'' ln1pressive By STEVE FALLON The Union College tntimate Frisbee Team, the Crispy Critters, competed in a five- school tournament at Hamilton College last Saturday. The tournament, held as a benefit for Easter Seals, was a success not only for the Critters but also for the charity as well. The Critters, led by Captain Chuck Figur, were 3-1 going into the tournament, having lost their only game to the Hamilton Tasmanian Devils. The first two games the Union team played , were against the Utica Killer Bees and the Hartwick Burners. The Critters, with their solid disc wor:k! ~asil~ ~efeated. these teams, ratsmgUmon's record to 5-l by the middle of tbe day. In the afternoon the Union team played ~·their toughest matches against Hobart College and Hamilton College. Hobart played a good game and beat the Union team 14-12. The last game, played against top- ranked Hamilton, was by far one of the best games ever played by the Union squad. The Union team carne from behind to lead the score by two points in the second half, but eventually lost by only one point in the last few seconds. Though' disap- pointed by the loss, the entire Crispy Critters team was satisfied with the ways the Critters had played. All in all, the Crispy Critters have demonstrated themselves to. be a team to be reckoned with. 0 - 0 .s:::: c. 1:: 1'0 E 1- 0 z 1:: E : ... 0 in

----- . Footba II Loses Br FRED LYNCH This one really, really hurt. It wasn't fun to watch and probably not particularly en- joyable to play in. It was - somewhat of a burden even to write about it. Certainly Joe Wirth didn't seem overjoyed just having coached the Dut- chmen to their homecoming loss. Not that he had reason to feel otherwise. Being upset 10-3, in front of 5000 alumni, faculty, students and trustees, aH of whom have high expectations, can prove demoralizing; and has at least temporarily taken the Wind from the sails of the Dutchmen. kids even seemed to be getting smaller. A great deal of time and effort has gone into this program and it has, in fact, improved. Last week's incredible victory coupled with the Lambert ranking set up a situation that should not have developed and certainly was not expected. Wirth would have questioned them ental health of anyone who predicted a win over Albany State and a 9th place ranking in the East; particularly after losing senior quarterback Dana Johnston for the entire season. With an inexperienced back• field that averages only 165 lbs. and a relatively small yet scrappy offensive line, it seems doubtful that Union could win any of their ball games. Unfortunately, it is the inability to move the football that could result in similar defeats despite the strong defense. John Johnson breaks through the Colby defense Soccer Lacking Scoring Punch By BRIAN SHEA On Wednesday, October 2, the Union College soccer team goalie came out of the i1et and challenged Sheridan who fired a shot which was swiftly smothered by the goalie. Andy . Dreher and Tim Agar put on The afternoon's only touch- down was the result of Billy Huttner's second down fumble, giving Colby fine field position at the Union 41. Although the defense held, the offense could do nothing after an exchange of punts leaving the ball with Colby at the Union 48. With a second and nine from the 38, Colby quarterback Tom Walsh hit flanker Matt Maley at the seven; a pass that could have and probably should have been intercepted by. Ray Rudolph. Three plays later Walsh drove it in for the score. Although the touchdown was Colby's only points of the first half, things could have been much worse. The inept Union offense con- tinually left the defense in horrendous field position. Yet the tough eleven remained equal to the task, despite being without the services of· Bruce Melena and Tim Howell. Field Dedication displayed an offense that completely lacked the ability to put the biill in the net. Union went on to a scoreless tie, even though th:ey amassed an amazing 34 shots. Albany State goalie Bill Steffen made a few tough saves, however, most of the game he just watched a barrage of Dutchmen shots go wide. fine offensive shows. Dreher dominating the midfield and firing a number of long-range shots that just missed: Agar, on the other side, had_ several tough·~mgle shots that just went Union's offense did show some life in the fourth quarter as they drove deep enough for Mark McKelvey's 34-yard field goal. Late in the game, it looked as though the Dutchmen might pull this one out. After starting at their own 19, John Johnson carried twice for 16 yards. Dan Stewart then connected with Dan Kelleher for a first down at the Colby 33. After three suc- cessive running plays, the drive and the hope of a comeback was shattered as Dan Stewart was tackled at the 24, one yard short of the first down. To the many who returned from their various ventures in life, it must have appeared that the Union College football jinx was still upon us. ~ot only was there the same bumbling but also inexplicable mistakes being committed and the game- breaking plays omitted, and the By STEVE 'MYERS Prior to the Homecoming football game last Saturday against Colby, a ceremony was held to dedicate the new astra- -turf field, constructed from the beginning of this year to late August. The members of this year's foot ball squad were the first to initiate the field, as other fall sports tested the turf soon afterwards. The turf was in- stalled with an eight year guarantee on the playing sur- face. Its projected life is about ten to twelve years, depending upon the amount of use overall for each year. In addition to the actual turf, an ·asphalt track surrounds , the field with facilities for the high jump, the pole vault and the long jump. At \the dedication, President Morris delivered a concise speech in regard to the new field. ·Additionally, he in- troduced the men who played a key role in the organization and development of the field. Present were three members from the Board of Trustees: Mr. Richard Day, chairman of the Board of Trustees; Mr. Jerry Newman, chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Com- mittee; Mr. Richard Roberts, chairman of the Athletic Committee; Mr. Dick Sakala, the Director of Intercollegiate Athletics; and Dr. Don Spring, the Dean of Students. _ Flanking to the left and to the right of these distinguished gentlemen were the members of Union's new cheerleading squad. Supporting this group in the background were representatives from the teams which are to play on the astro- turf, one from each team. The teams to play on the turf include football, men's and women's lacrosse, men's and women's track, men's and women's soccer, women's field hockey, and all intramural sports. At the conclusion of . the speech, two of the cheerleaders extended a ribbon in front of President Morris. After two of the gentlemen standing with· President Morris had taken hold of the ends of the ribbon, he proceeded to cut the ribbon, officially dedicating the new facility. SUPPORT UNION ATHLETICS Harriers Show ltnprove~nent Trinity College arrived at Central Park in Schenectady confident that they would ride back to Connecticut with one more digit in the win column. However, the Union harriers had other ideas; almost every runner on the squad improveq his time enabling the Dutchmen to take a 26-31 win. Ed Arnheiter bettered his school record for the five-mile course with a time of 25:59 for a first place finish. Dave This Week's Concordy Pick: UNION • •• 3 • • • R.P .I. Dellehunt was second in 26:26. Denny \Sid\ Contois (26:58) and John Casale (27: 05) were instnunental in the Union win with fifth and sixth place finishes, respectively. Roun- ding out the top seven for Union were Mark \Bjorn\ Arienti, twelfth, Paul \Hosey\ Palas·zewski, fourteenth, and John \Wiz\ Wisniewski, seventeenth. Other Dutchman finishers were freshmen Dave Barrett (19th); Franklin \the Animal\ Schneider (21st) and Doug Sherman (22nd). After the meet, freshman Frank Schneider reflected on ,the Dutchman victory, asser- . ting, \The day was perfect, it was Homecoming weekend and we were fired up for this one! \ Next week the Dutchmen travel to Troy to take on area rival RPI at 1 p.m. Union played a rather sluggish first half, not dominating the .game nearly .as much as in the second· half and the two overtime periods. Union indeed played down to the level of a less skilled . and less con- ditioned Albany State team. The defense showed no weaknesses, holding Albany to three shots all day, and Union goalie George Romas went on to record his third shutout of the season. Romas now needs four more shutouts to break the Union season record, which he holds along·with Doug Crawford '80. Offensively, the Dutchman squad is generating chances and opportunities but the in- tensity in the goal area is lacking. Against Albany, and many of the other opponents this season, Union . has dominated up to the goal area, yet the final shots seem tn always end 11pwide or shot right at the goalie. Dave Sheridan had the best - Union opportunity of the day as he went one on one with the Alb~ny goalie. The aggressive wide. · Union plays Siena and RPI this week as the competition lessens on . a blockbuster schedule. Coach Magee still . believes his Dutchmen squad will be an NCAA contender~ \We have weathered the tough part of the schedule and stand 2· 2-2. Pretty soon other opponents will get into the hard part of their schedules and we will be at an advantage.\ Coach Magee should be optimistic--his players are finally healthy and with two conquerable opponents this week, Union should be 4-2-2 heading into· a tough Division I match with Colgate on Wed., Oct. 21. Magee swns it up as such, \There is nothing wrong with our style of play-we just have not found the goal.\ The Union varsity played the Alumni in the tuFf Friday evening of Homecoming. The alumni won' 5-3 with goals by Paul Marvin, Pete Martini, Peter Handy, Pete Van Valkenburgh and Craig Jef- fires. Andy Dreher, Chris Morrow, and Evan Kririak scored for the undergraduates. President Morris dedicates the turf SPORTS HAPPENINGS Oct. 15-22 Varsity Football Varsity Soccer J. V. Soccer Cross Country Oct. 17 at RPI1:30 0Ct.17atRPill:OOa.m. Oct. 16at RPI7:00 p.m. Oct. 21 Hartwick 3:00 Oct .. l7 at RPil2:00 ex - Clif AI con sucl Scul her feeli this disc rela Scul bef(J fun< in tt this hav' stud off-< rest cerr StU< cide detE coul and of sibi: wel maj clut am< the dis« meE p abo Clul Mm Tw< wee the Coll cur1 cia~ day the con eith Dec StU I Stu roo: whi for botl De~ witl the tha as; the Pr~ Tur has Vic of can a pi his Stu

and a Andy on and on RPI still tough of and 4-2-2 I as just the The by rtini, Van Jef- CXI,. No. 5 0 c':> -; ~ co Cliff Wood, Director of Security Forum Meets: 1877 0 Schenectady, New York October 22, 1981 Suggestions for Safety By NAOMI BLANK Rumors have a tendency to spread on Union's.campus. As a result of recent rmnors about incidents of vi:olence, Con· cordiensis was prompted to discuss the matter with campus Security .. Communication between the campus Security and students is important, Cliff Wood, Director of Security anq Safety ex- plained. Rumors often make their way to Security, at which point Security :follows up on the story. Security uses Con· cordiensis, WRUC, and Resident Advisors as a means by which they can communicate with the students. At the present time, none of the incidents that are being looked into took place on Union's campus. Should a problem arise, the Security Office will bring the student to the Schenectady Police to assist them through the charging process. The desire of the Security Department is to both protect and help the students. Students should have a healthy respect for potential occurrences off and on campus, C b-r- i s C h a d w i c k , Administrative Sargeant ex- plained. He noted that the risks apply to each individual. One need not go to extremes, yet a modification of behavior should take place to reduce these risks. Security. Protection and maintenance of safety is their job. Students must, howe·~er, reduce possible risks and remove the opportunities for potential incidents. The Security and Safety Depart- ment have a few suggestions of ways in which students may modify their behavior in order to increase personal safety. These suggestions may be applied to actions both on and off campus. -Avoid walking alone. -Use well lighted streets or sidewalks. -Don't walk the same route or use the same time schedule all of the time. Student Liability The tendency on a college campUs, Chadwick continued, is to be more relaxed, for it is a more liberal atmosphere. It is not as divergent a community as a city, and one tends to feel as though everyone is familiar to them. Being cautious is the key. It is very easy fot one to forget the possible con- sequences of one's actions. Many doors in dorms and apartments are left unlocked. CriJninals are opportuni!lts. If students can remove the op- portunities, the crimes will not occ11r, for the opportunists will go elsewhere. --Don't walk in closed-in parking lots, along construction sites, in or along parks, or in deserted areas. -Be aware of other people. around or near you, be aware of the environment. -Have your keys ready when you get to your dorm or car. -Do not hitchhike. Any activity that a Union College stud~~nt participates in, such as the Outing Club or the Scuba Club, is done so at his or her own risk. This was the feeling of the Student Forum this past Monday when discussing the question in relation to the Scuba Club. The Scuba Club was re-appearing before the Forum to request funding, which it did not receive in the initial budget proposal for this year. The College does not have a policy to cover those students who engage in these off-campus \outings\. As a result, the Forum was con- cerned about the liability of the Student Forum in case of ac- cident or injury. When it was determined that the Forum could not be held accountable, and that it was in fact an issue of a student taking respon- sibility for his or her own Welfare, they voted, in a majority vote, to grant the club's request for funds. The amount of the new budget for the club will be approved or disapproved at next weeks meeting. Previous to the discussion about insurance and the Scuba Club, the item concerning the Mountebanks request for Stage Two, was deferred to the next week's meeting. Stage Two is the second stage of the Union College performing .arts. It is currently being used as a classroom, accomodating both day and evening classes. Since the room is in Carnegie, it's use comes under the- jurisdiction of either the Dean of Students, the Dean of Students and the Student Forum, or just the Student Fortirn. This particular room falls into category B, which leaves the responsibility for proper use of the room up to both the Student Forum and the Dean of Students. The problem with deciding what to do with the room is created by the fact ~. that the room is now being used' as a classroom, which is under the jUrisdiction of Vice President D'Andrea. Weldon Turner, the Forum President has been unable to speak to the Vice President on this matter as of yet. Therefore, the issue cannot be addressed without the approval of Dr. D'Andrea, and his consent to allow the Dean of Students and the Student Forum to handle the matter. After the discussion of the .agenda items, the committee reports were given. In his portion of the reports, Pete McCaffrey, Vice President of Finance, suggested a question and answer session _be held ~oncerning 'bow the budget cuts were determined and which would entertain any questions that are specific to a _ _group or organization. The idea was approved by the Forum, and the meeting will cater to all club officers and will be held on Monday, October 26 at 4:30 p.m. in the fourth floor lounge of Carnegie. Reports were heard from the Student · Affairs Council -· I representatives who informed the For~ that the revised party policy is now before the Security de_partment and awaiting their comments and approval: The IFC represen- tative commented on the Greek Week ;1etiviUe.s .. desc:;ribing the various parties to be held · and the culminating events on the weekend. At the end o.f the meeting, the Forum voted its approval for the weekly publication of Forum minutes and agenda in Concordiensis, and the posting of said minu,tes in appropriate places. The agenda for the next week was set, and the meeting was adjourned. As a whole, this year things have been going well. Security has not had to deal with a lot of problems. Wood expressed the desire for a better relationship between the students and Greek Week: -Do not accept rides from someone you don't know. -Do not wear clothing that restricts- your options. Consider how you will react if you are confronted with a suspicious or dangerous situation, before tbe situation occurs. If you see anything suspicious report it to the Security and Safety Department-give your narne so that if the Department needs more information they can contact you. In FUll Swing Greek · Week, a series of special events sponsored by the inter-Fraternity Council and various brewing companies, is now in full swing. In addition to the scheduled house parties, all the house will participate in a single elimination tug-of-war competition on Library Field, a volleyball competition at Alumni Gym, and Boat races in the Rathskeller. The week will end with a rocking party in the Alumni Gym which is being sponsored by the Miller Schedule Of Events Thursday Lowenbrau Volleyball Tournament-Alumni Gym Lite Beer Tug of War-1 :30 p.m. at Library Field Parties-Alpha Delta Phi; Chi Psi; Kappa Alpha, Sigma Phi; Psi Upsilon Friday ~'I BrewJng Company. Admission will be charged and door reciepts will be donated to the WGY Children's Christmas Fund. The Alumni Gym party will feature two local bands; The Targets and Slapstick, to provide continuous rock and rollfor a great evening of dancing and entertainment. Eight Man Boat Races-2:00 p.m. at Rathskeller Parties-Delta Phi, Phi Delta ThEta; Theta Delta Chi Saturday IFC Band Party. at Alumni Gym featuring The ';I'argets and Slapstick. Weldon Turner, President of Student Forum OPEN MEETING WITH THE FINANCE COMMITTEE: Th_e Finance Committee will be holding an open meeting for the entire campus to come in and ask questions concerning budgets. Additional funding will also b·e discussed. When: Mon. 10/26 · 4:30 p.m Where: 4th fl. lounge Ca·rnegie Sponsored by- the ~-- Miller Brewin~ Co. Donation $1.00 for IFC members and $2.00 for all others. All proceeds to the WGY Children's Christmas Fund. Sponsored by The Miller Brewing Co.

-· Page 2 CONCOBDlENSIS, October 8$, 1981 Exam Policy Restated ( Off;cial release) Last year, the Academic Affairs Council drafted and circulated for faculty comment on a guideline 6f ''Good Practices\ in Hour Exams. With some small minority opinion otherwise, the faculty clear:ly supported the practices as described. At the last meeting ef the year; the AAC directed that the policy be announced again to the faculty and campus in the fall term. The AAC stresses that nothing new has been proposed in this code of conduct. It has merely sought to remind the com- munity of procedures long since stated in the Faculty Manual and continued in the latest revision. These rules were established not to intrude on the instructor's good management of his class, but to formulate what experience has found to provide fair procedures with a minimum of abrasion for students or for other faculty. The AAC hopes and expects that all faculty members will cooperate in the spirit of the practices urged on the attached sheet. If the letter of the law appears in particular cases to be too restrictive for good academic purposes, AAC ex· pects the instructor to seek ad hoc approval from the depart- ment chairman for departures from usual procedures. When such special arrangements are made, the Faculty Manual notes that time for the exam should count as time in class. \Good Practices\ in HoorExams The Academic Affairs Committee requests the cooperation ·Of the faculty in the following set of \good prac- tices'' regarding the ad- ministration of hour exams: 1. Hour examinations should be scheduled for regular class hours. 2. The examination should be Lodge Fire By STEVEN FALLON Last Thursday there was a grease fire in the kitchen of Chi Psi fraternity. At about 12:30 p.m. a crowCI. be_gan to form outside· the lodge as smoke poured out of the windows. The Schenectady firemen were immediately called in to ex- tinguiSh the fire before the damage became extensive. Barry Watkins, the Union College Fire Marshall, said that the fire, which started in the kitchen, was h.andled properly by all involved. The Schenec- tady Fire company responded to the alarm within a minute after it was turned in. The members of the fraternity emptied all of their fire ex· tinguishers on the fire, and even went to a nearby fraternity to borrow more extinquishers. The swift action of the brothers, campus security, and the Schnectady firemen contained the damage within the kitchen. Proposals Due The deadline for proposals to the Internal Education Foun- dation in two categories-- student-initiated research . projects and \educationally innovative projects\-falls on October 30. Notification for awards in both categories will be made by December 1. The deadline applies to proposals for projects to be undertaken during the Winter and-or the Spring term. Proposals for student- initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agr-eed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs office on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have ''educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Last year, in its fourth year of operation, I.E.F. made awar-ds totalling $83,660, to 47 projects. The approved projects were among 60 requests for a total of $149,386. Some $100,000 has been provided by the College to I.E.F. for the 1981-82 academic year. Inquiries about I.E.F. and proposal deadlines should be directed to the Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs. Art Club Formed By KATY BRmER The new Arts Club of Union College met for the first time and began activities to brighten up the sadly neglected condition of the Visual Arts on campus. · For too long the Visual Arts, ( ie. drawingt painting, printmaking and sculpture) have been virtually ignored by the Union College community. The Arts Club hopes to put an end to this gloomy situation. The Arts Club has many projects and goals in planning for the upcoming year and now only needs your support to make them ha,ppen. For in- stance, one major project already in motion is the opening of a gallery space on cainpus where students, faculty, and guest artists will be able to exhibit their ·art work. (Th~ campus population needs to see all the creative activity flourishing right in our own studios.) Right now plans are being drafted for a possible location of the gallery in the Art Building. The plans will be considered and decided upon by the Art Department next week. Another goal of the Arts Club is to bring guest artists and art- related specialists onto campus to speak about and-or diSplay their work. The club is also planning to sponsor- trips for students to get off campus to visit Museums and events of interest in the surroundi-ng area. Another important aspect of the club is a graphics division which will design posters, notices and logos for other- clubs needing help in creating eye- catcbing publicity. Anyone interested in working on any of these projects or who would like to see other activities sponsored by the Arts Club should sign up in the Arts Office. Meetings are held every Wednesday afternoon at 4:30 in Room 204 of the Art Building. You need not be multi-talented, nor particularly artistic to attend, just interested in seeing a little artistic pizzazz brightening up the campus. set for the time l'imit Qf that class-hour, so that this exam will not interfere with other scheduled classes or approved activities. 3. In particular, the exam should not be set for late af- ternoon {after 4:30p.m.) or in the evenings, unless the class is also scheduled for regular meetings at those times. 4. Exams should not be \open- ended\ in time. Fair treatment of all students requires that all students submit their papers within the same time limits. 5. The time of the examination should be set by the instructor, and the students should not be asked to r-atify an arrangement which violates good practices. 6. Instructors should note that no hour exami~tions (except for ~necessary la.b practicums) may be scheduled during the last week of classes in a term. 7. Exams should .be proctored by the instructor or, when necessary, a secretary or equivalent . employee of the college, but not by a student or Will Lloyd, Senior Student Trustee Trustees Confer grant-in-aid. . 8. \Make~up\ examinations may be arranged if it is the policy of the instructor to permit them, and they may be set for a non-class-hour , mutually satisfactory to student and instructor. It is common practice for instructors to allow make-up exams only for \legal\ absences, such as those caused by illness or by par- ticipation in an approved of- ficial college activity t 9. In regard to exams, as in class attendance, the instructor should announce clearly at the beginning of the term his ex- pectations and policies, so that students may see clearly what the conditions are. 10. Instructors who see the need for particular arrangements not in accord with these guidelines should seek the advice and permission of the department chairman. By NAOMI BLANK The Board of Trustees con- ducted its fall meeting last Friday, October 16. As the governing authority of educatioo at Union, the board sets polici.es for both the Administration and the school. The m.eeting \reported to the board as to what's been hap- pening on campus,\ explained Senior Student Trustees Will Lloyd. Much of the meeting updated past actions and renovations that have taken place ,on campus. The completion of the new ceilings and addition of new furniture in Fox and Davidson dorms as well as the flood lights for safety in front of the Psychology building were among the major projects completed during the summer. A memory and disc unit com- puter- has been purchased for $105,000. It is hoped the unit will facilitate the operation of the INTRODUCING computer-• center. The Board was also told that Girling Center has · been put on the market for sale. Access to entrances for the handicapped are added im- provements to the campus. Ueat recov~ry and conservation projects were completed on various parts of the campus. The retirement .of History Professor Neal Allen was an- nounced to take effect on December 31, 1981. Professor Helen Oulette of Classics bas been granted immediate tenure. The board also reported the final make up and statistics of the freshman class. It. was also informed as to the ac- ceptance of 73 transfers, more than had previously been estimated. On January 13, 1982, the Board of Trustees will meet for their next meeting· in New York City. The most natural thing you can wear next to your skin CONTOURING . \, ' I lrdat11'Mth can he used\\ • blush An aU<>WT rl\lkoup An '!oJf! ~ A lip cOO. A;;;.,.,·, bron2er Ewn a ~ color illS S1lT1pio blm:l d day and l1'11llel'ais usocl =• anoen1 ...,...., oow pov.dered lo perlocoon II c<Jnlalns ru dyes. <>is.~ or syn thebes Andn'slaboralory proven 10 have no eye or si<m rnla1Dn fa::tor. \'peopk> .. c1 al si<m oypes can\\' rt·IO pron'Rlt•a !Pden <t:Av Wrth proper'~' !he cclor .,..,..10 COirO' fromwoJm \')U, nol from a bonk?. because rt bio:mc>;v..th l'JIIT 011!1 d\ermtry So, w+we n conies II) onl,r cno color. 11 beccmes more oen;onaizal as IOU wear n Th< ~ eartren JiU' lclls at k!ast a 61li:lnlh supply yoo use n VerV sponr1!jy Here we shoo!.,.,.,. o1 tre.subtl> eferts yoo can achieve. IOf .a look that's ,..,... porfectl; naturnl Crabtree 6 Evelyn· LONDON .. Center City Pla;u 433 Slate St., Schenectady (518) 346-6604 Roblnso111Square 301 Hamilton St •• Albany (51 B) 463-8041 .. - ' - . ----- .. OR BLUSH FOR NAIL COLOR apply Indian Earth w1th cutlon swab Cover with a coat of clea1 / polish let dry. then wipf' off T~ ( In the] is n: issl You ove1 UstE bre; ... dist ~ ell a sl .!11 - slig: ~ c acrl Ill tak4 E win ... 0 fres :z >- you .0 den und sha< sha teet sca1 tanl detl tatt pro \E ifyt littl u finE: 1\ 0 cha fraf see1 hoVI to VI and ~ tairl Em: Hur hefJ are this do~ gen \si< clin 'sta cret the is sprt bre~ the the< sta1 and wor Ir cer1 stat whe the wal don shal goir yes It eve th i esrn see1 sef1 der< pos:

... .$! Ill ~ - a. c Ill E !.. 0 :z ~ 0 0 ..c Q. OONOOBDIENSlS, October B3, 1981 Page 3 ~rts & Culture The Good Doctor: .One of Simon's Best inquire just what kig.d of en- tertainment he is speaking of. The old sailor darts back, ''Well, sir, how wotifd you like to see a drowned man? A man with his lungs filled up with salt water and stone dead .from drowning. How much would you pay to see that?\ brothel, and a master seducer who finds a challenge in the wife ·of a stuffy, middle-aged businessman. With a strong cast of nine (Ken Altman, Irene Fassler, Brett Putnam, Rob Quish, Tom Rice, Bambi Schlauch, Anna Tucker, Marcy Wi·lder and WHliam Ziskin), The Good Doctor is an e:vent you won't want to miss, The show opens , Tuesday, November 3, and r,uns for five straight nights through Saturday, Noyember 7. Tickets are $2.00 with Union I.D. and $3.0Q for the outside community. Tickets will go on sale October 26 in the Nott and Car:negie. Hope to see you there. The cast and crew have been rehearsing diligently. Opening night is Nov. 3rd. Imagine.yourself on a pier in the port city of a foreign land. It is nighttime and chilly; the fog is slowly rolling .in off the ocean. You stand there watching out over the dark, mysterious se~; listening as the waves quietly break over the rocks. In the distance a low foghorn roars as a ship Is leaving the harbor. A slight wind blows the sea air across the land behind you.-You take a deep breath of the salty wind and exhale it. The air is fresh and clean; it revitalizes your whole body. Quite sud- denly a man appears from underneath the dock. He is a shady looking individual, un- shaven .and dressed in rags. His teeth are rotting, his face badly scarred\ and his muddy hair is a tangled web of twine. With a determined look on his face, this tattered excuse of a man ap- proaches you and asks, \Evening sir~ I was wondering if you might be in the mood for a little ... er ... entertainment?\ Add to this situation seven additional bizarre and comic vignettes and the result is Neil Simon's The Good Doctor based on the work of Anton Chekhov. First produced on Broadway in 19~3, the two-act comedy is undoubtedly one of Simon's strongest ·and most entertaining works. All the action takes place in Russia at the turn of the century. Other characters in the show include a rampageous harridan who terrorizes a bank manager 'afflicted with gout, a lowly. government clerk who ac- cidentally sneezes on his respected superior in a public theatre, a father who attempts to introduce his son to the \!llysteries of love\ at a local Just a Rumour ••• .Gar,land JeHreys in Albany Unsure of his rp.otives; you finally muster up the courB:ge to ByBOBFOX Before I begin, oh, too late. Well anyhow, J.B. Scott's was rocking something serious last \ More Sordid News From Smith O.K. so they revok~d our charter-we didn't want to be a frasority anyway. There does seem to be some confusion however_ That is, confusion as to what Smith House actually is and who really cares. - Well, Skeeter 0. Smith cer- tainly cares, and so does uncle Eustasi(but he's a real sick pup Hunting beavers and spreading herpes and all). Some people are even beginning to think that thi§ sickness has been passed down from generation to generation. But it isn't really a \sickness at least•not in the clinical sense. It's more of a 'state of mind,' the kind that creeps up on you as you trip up the back stairs and. wonder who is the guy in the kitchen, spreading dog food on a piece of bread. Of course, it might not be the dog food guy at all, my theory is that the absurdity all started with the chicken dogs and has gotten progressively worse. · In any case, chicken dogs certainly don't account for the state of mind that envelopes you when you find yourself within the confinement of those yellow walls. Oh, while you're in there, don't be surprised if the house shakes a bit-it's just the L train going by. What was I saying, oh- yes enveloping state of mind ... It probably doesn't affect everybody, but there.is .a warm- th in the house that no one can escape; You see maintenance seems to have ·a problem con- serving energy .. (and we won- dered what a school could possibly · do with $9,000 per ' I Friday Nite Is Union Nite . ' ...... ~ ., • 6 ~ II Serv.ihgLunches Mon.-Fri. 11-4' Sat. 12-4 student). Though it is rather expensive to be a member of our humble community, I'd like to mention the donation box going around campus in effort to outlaw tennis as a crippling sport . . . Nevermind . . . I suppose not everyone will find humor in this, but then not everyone finds humor in climbing into bed with broccoli quiche. Sound absurd? Well, this is gonzo journalism, and gonzoness, like absurdity, is merely a state of mind. And you see, dear friends, it is exactly the absurd state of mind that creeps into the hearts and souls. of those who enter into the little yellow house that we call home. , .· Union College Concert Committee Presents An evening of music and dance in Alumni Gym, Friday, Nov. 20, featuring THE GO-GO's and Joe King Carrasco Watch for ticket information (for a preview, the Go-Go's will appear on \Saturday Night Live\ November 14th) Women's Glee Club Holds Concert This Friday evening, October 23, the Union College Women's Glee Club . will be hosting the Worcester Polytechnic Institute Men's Glee Club. The two groups wW join in a concert at 8:00 in Memorial Chapel. Among the Women's selections will be Zoltan Kodaly's \Ave Maria\ and Brahms' \Vineta.\ Along with performing several of their - own selections, WPI will join the Women in performing two movements of the \Mass in- G minor\ by R. Vaughan Williams. Union College students are invited to attend;. admission is free. This is the second formal concert of the season under the direction of F. John Adams. Several new women have joined the Glee Club and the group now has one of the largest enrollments in its history. New members are always\Welcome. Rehearsal times are as follows: Monday 8:15-10:00 and Thursday 6:15-8:00 in Arts 202. . & COCKTAIL LOUNGE $1.00 off Any Meal w-Union lD Dinners Served Tues.-fri. 4-4 we do not come to believe in ourselves until someone reveals that deep inside of us something is valuable, worth listening to, worthy of - our trust, sacred to our touch. once we believe irt ourselves we can risk curi<lsity, wonder, spontaneous delight or any experience that reveals the human spirit. eecummings l12S -8~ ''Stepout and come alive!\ - . ome to Brad's · . Saturday night. I know about seven hundred people who will back me up in making a simple request: The Concert Com- mittee should look into a band from New York called Tom Dickey and the Desires. I thought for sure that I would have to sit at that table and take everybody's money· at black- jack all night. But how wrong I was! The Desires were great, except for the fact that they were so loud my ears rang for hours (I thought I heard sirens on the way home), Mr. Dickey and his band were fantastic. They are comprised of two guitars, a bass, drums and keyboards, and a person for each instrument, but, moving on, they work well together and showed the audience how to rock in a unique way. Their vocals are strong and clear, the keyboards were a little weak: their removal would have cut down on some . unnecessary noise. Overall, I'd give them four stars as a warm up band (certainly not a negative comment). Headlining the show, in a big way. was Garland Jeffreys. He is an outstanding performer. Unf()rtunately, The· Rum our, formerly with Graham Parker, which had been on tour with Jeffreys, has recently disbanded. A show that could have been amazing, turned out great instead. A big hand goes to Rumour guitarist Brinsley Schwarz, who stayed with Garland, and whose over- whelming talent and finesse added a lot of class to· the evening. Jeffreys didn't play for an exceptionally long time, but the show was full of energy. It opened with \Ghost Writer,\ and continued through a list of favorites including \35mm Dreams,\ \I May Not Be Your Kind,\ \Innocent \Modern Lovers,\ \96 Tears,\ \Cool Down Boy,\ \Rough and Ready,\ and the classic \Wild in the Streets.\ At one point Jeffreys romped through the audience. When he left the ~ stage, he looked like he was headed for the bar, but instead, returned to the stage and ac- cepted a beer from a fan. There is something about a concert in a small club that can never be matched in a larger setting. J. B. Scott's was full of the magic of Garland Jeffreys' music. He seems very involved with the stories his songs relate, and the music makes you want to dance. The whole show was ex- cellent, but short. And, worst of all, Brinsley never did tell as where Graham was. Union College Mountebanks Presents: THE GOOD DOCTOR A Comedy By Nei I Simon At the Nott Memorial Theatre Nov. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 at 8 p.m . Tickets on sale Oct. 26 in the box office 1-4:30 p.m. Also available at Student Activities booth in Carnegie 1-11 p.m. Price: $2 w-Union I 0, $3.00 Gen. Adm .. Reservations: 370- 6153. ,.4.-~$~ 464 State St. Schenectady, NY ~~ ~9k '-:-.WE DELIVER- 374-1888

Page 4 OONOORDIENSIS., October 23, 1981 feature Le Plus Ca CllalfgC ByRIT: 1... ~ Vl ., '' The grass is ,greener. The nights are brighter. The air is cleaner. It's the new Union. As the cold winds and bright colors of Autumn awaken us from those lazy, hazy days o£ sum· mer, the College on the Hill seems a shade different from the hues we left last spring. somewhat less forgiving. It is Union's new aU-weather astro- turf stadium with track and lighted for night play at that! It is- the new improved modern answer to Union's qld. problem of who's going to play what, where, when and with whom. It seems to have inspired eur football team and }lrought a new sense of spirit to a college in- famous itl football circles. For these reasons alone, the as yet unnamed field seems to be at least Worth's-while. Field hockey, however, seems as ..• green as the plastic grass. Ill ..... a. c: Ill E 1... 0 z ~ 0 +- 0 -a The newest thing in architectural nium1nanon lntel!ectua.l Cabaret: There is finally grass on the athletic Held, a g~ass that is somewhat brighter and Who Really Runs America? By D. C. OWENS primarily because of the dominant liberal political content of the country.\ Underwood saw the role of a corporate or economic elite as being one to prevent items that threaten the elite, from getting on the agenda. \Most of us are satisfied with symbolic output,\ he stated when asked why more deep changes haven't come about. abstract and raised the question of whether the powerful elements of the news media can be challenged. To tllis Prof¢ssor Tidmarch replied that educated people are the most subject to media manipulation. Professor Weiner thought tbat advertising and propaganda had the greatest effect on working class people. Last Spring, Mr. Wood could be heard muttering among the upperclasspersons, \Go west young men and women.\ A,nd so they did. For the first time in recarded .Union history, Union upperelasspersons in significant numbers are now living in West College. Refur- bished for the occasion with new lounges, new carpet, new paint, and new fire extinguishers. West seems a little less humble and little more sweeter. Reaction to the improvements seems mixed, \The new lounges are terrific. They're great for playing frisbee. I hope they never put furniture in them.\ \Putting the fire extinguishers Alumni Counsel: • • • in the middle of the room lends a great touch. They're a great conversation piece.\ Gone is \The Cag~,\ the ~carnegie landmark is dead. In its place the foremost in for- mica, the new student activities desk. Gone, too, ;are the lights in the archways; 252 bright ideas that .gave a warmand amusing glow to The Grounds. We welcome the newest thing in ar- chitectural illumination. Semething has been lost in between incandescent and fluorescence. New ideas that are bright ideas are not necessarily good ideas. Gone is the asbestos. The s.uites are not safer places in which to live. Although the carpet is still in shreds, and the ' paint continues to peel, everyone in Fox and Davidson is breathing a little easier. Changes. The grass is greener. The night is brighter. The air is cleaner. We've . painted here and there. Changed the color a little, you could say. But we go on; studying, partying, com- plaining. Changes, not really. The more things change, the more they remain the same. The Intellectual Cabaret held its first presentation of the term on Tuesday, October 19. The topic of discussion was \Who Really Runs America?\ The panel consisted of three Union faculty members and a student moderator. Prof. James Underwood and Prof. Charles Tidmarch of the Political Science Department as well as Prof. Terry Weiner of the Sociology Department were chosen by the Intellectual Cabaret Committee to air their views. Larry Frankel, a member of the committee, served as moderator. Each faculty member gave a five minute statement setting forth his views. A five minute panel discussion period enabled each panelist to raise questions regarding a colleague's opening statement. Following this, questions were solicited from the audience, addressed to one or more panel members. Professor Weiner took a Neo- Marxist position and said that he felt, \The economic elites are running the country ... the debate is no longer who but how.\ •Weiner disparaged the idea of a small insular ruling class by saying, \A positional elite, not a social class, dominates.'' The important factor ac- cording to Weiner was defined as, \What matters is not who you are, but where you are.\ As to the question of whether of not economic elites interfere in the · daily affairs of politics, Weiner remarked, \Individuals run important institutions for the benefit of those institutions and intervene (lobby) with the state.\ The panelists stated their personal beliefs in response to a question of \What ()Ught to be?\ Professor Underwood replied that he is \a Democrat with a small 'd'\which he further described as a radical Democrat. Professor Tidmarch said \I'm a Social Democrat in favor of redistribution of wealth.\ Tidmarch felt that enhanced participation is the key. Professor Weiner felt that his views were close to President Mitterrand of France. Weiner said that the Democratic party should go socialist and should call for nationalization of important industries. Weiner feels that the future will be dangerous due to a shrinking economic \pie.\ Helping Students Professor Tidmarch started things off by saying that there are many possible answers to who runs America. He defined \run\ as the ability to maintain power, influence, and have opportunity to shape outcomes for the benefit of a particular group of interests. Tid.march dismissed the conspiracy theory and noted that at times, though not often, the poor and disorganized also affect certain issues. Professor Underwood disagreed with Professor Tidmarch by saying \Let me distort what he (Tidmarch) had to say.\. Underwood mentioned that there are stages in the political process for various interests to affect the way our society is governed. The problem definition stage, the legislative and regulatory stages, and finally, the ap- plication and enforcement stages. One of the main topics raised was that of the redistribution of wealth. Underwood noted that, \The question of redistribution of wealth rarely reaches the agenda in America . . . The rebuttal period focused even closer on the matter of redistribution . of income. Professor Tidmarch thought that the issue had been ad- dressed through social legislation over the last fifty years. Professor Weiner disagreed saying, \The ultimate issue is the redistribtuion of income . . . it has never made it to the agenda.\ Professor Underwood agreed with Professor Tidmarch that progressive reform was sup- ported by a large segment of business. Underwood quipped, \Neither of these two people has attacked me because they know that I am correct.\ This remark brought forth a gale of laughter from both panel and audience. The questions from the audience helped to clarify the positions of the panelists on the previously discussed points as well as raising new topics. The moderator, Larry Frankel, felt that the arguments were rather The Intellectual Cabaret was timely, provocative, and quite entertaining. As a transfer student and new member of the Intellectual Cabaret, I felt that the effort put forth by everyone involved was appreciated by the audience. As one who hadn't had the pleasure of experien- cing one of these perfonnances in the past, I came away con- vinced that it is indeed a wor- thwhile organil;ation. I found the audience to be very at- tentive to the statements of the panelists. The nature of the questions asked by members of the audience sl1<nv-ed that they had a clear, intelligent view of the issues under discussion. The panel members were knowledgeable,. articulate, and humorous; their efforts were well received. The moderator kept things running smoothly throughout the evening. I heartily recommend that anyone interested in a stimulating evening of en- tertainment should attend the next Intellectual Cabaret. See you there. r----------------~----------------------------1 New York · Pizzeria & Sqbs 11 Wednesday night is Union night!\ This coupon entitles you to $1 off any purchase over five dollars. CWSED TUESDAY Hours: Monday through Tbwsday 11 A.M. to 11 PM. Friday and Saturday 11 A.M. to I A.M. Sunday 4 P.M. to 11 P.M. . Telephone 393a0022 J _________ _8,.!-~ ~~C!_e!!~ ~~~~ ____ _s:h~~':_~dy,~~!'!~- _____ _. _; Sometimes undergraduates know just what direction their career should take-whether it's medicine or journalism or chemical engineering:- But what about students who aren't quite sure they've chosen the right career or who want to explore a number of job alternatives? At Union College in Schenectady, students can get firsthand knowledge of any number' of careers, from ac- counting to urban planning, bY spending a day with a Union alumnus who works in the student's field of interest. The career observation program at Union is now in its fourth year and College Career Center Director Betty Goodman is pleased with the results. Goodman explains that she started the program when she came to Union several years ago because she feels \our best asset in career planning is our alumni, and students have a better chance of being happy in a career if they can witness what the job is all about.\ Thus began career observation days, now neld in the Capital District, B.oston, and New York City, and also sponsorep by a New York City based corporation and a Buffalo firm that employ a number of Union graduates. The program works like this: College alumni are asked if they would like to sponsor a Union student in their place of business for a day. When a list of alumni and their professions is available, students are en- couraged to sign up for one or more visits. While marty businesses recruit on campus, ' Goodman notes, the career observation program is par- ticularly helpful in giving students information about a wide range of occupations. In the past, students in the Capital District program have spent time with employees of the New York State Dormitory Authority, the Capital District Psychiatric Center, and the State Education Department. In Boston, one student spent the day with an immunopathologist at the Harvard Medical School while another visited a professor at the Harvard Business School. Student reaction is almost always positive, Goodman says. 1980 Union graduate Michael MacKenty spent a day at the Bellofoam Corporation, a company near Boston that produces diaphragms and pneumatic devices that require diaphragms, and a second day with an insurance salesman. \We talked with Union graduates and others and were continually amazed at what we heard and 'saw,\ MacKenty said. \The observation program is a unique op- portunity to get a look at dif- ferent jobs and get a feeling of what they really entail.\ Alumni, too, have been pleased with the experience. \It .,gives them a sense of personal pride and brings them closer to their alma :t;nater,\ Goodman says. \In fact,\ she adds, \many of them have said, 'I wish we had this when I was in school.\' In the past, as many as 70 alumni and 160 Union students have participated in the career observation program. This year, Goodman hopes those figures will increase to 100 alumni and 250 students. \The career observation program has been rewarding for the alumni and very beneficial to the students,\ . Goodman says. . 136 Jay Street Downtown Schenectady ~ 3<46·211\l I ., ca· Ja In: tr~ Se, pu se1 COl p~l fu: Re ch wi SP< m4 th da ce pr Se Ni RE Se PE in r€ a R SI vi til d! u

' OONOOBDIEN818, OctolJer B3, 1981 Page 5 features W att''s · Wrong With Watt :6y TOM NITIOO Topping off Reagan's steller cabinet is his appointment of James Watt as Secretary of the Interior. One envisions the traditional role of the Interior Secretary as the protector of ' public lands-an individual who seeks to improve environmental conditions, or tn the very least protects the environment from further degeneration. Mr. Reagan however, has filled the · chief environmental position with an individual who is out- spokenly anti--environment-a move that is questionable to say the least. To call the actions of Watt to date \questionable\ would certainly understate the problem. Former Assistant . Secretary of the Interior (under Nixon and Ford) Nathaniel Reed had this to say about Watt. \Nobody likes to complain about an old colleague .. And, in fact, I sent J,i.m Watt a mailgram expressing my congratulations and offering my assistance when his nomination was announced. I had hopes that he would rise above his narrow ad- vocate's role as director of the Mountain States legal Foundation. I had hopes that he would develop into a statesman secretary of the Interior ... But two of Watt's actions have convinced me that he is already a disaster as Secretary. One of these is his butchery of the Land and Water Conservation Fund .. . , the other is the tatk that he delivered to the Conference of National Park Con- cessioners on March 9 of this year-surely one of the most fawning, disgusting per- formances ever given by a Secretary of the Interior. He was so eager to please that he all but gave a way the park system\ · The situation with Watt as Secretary of the Interior ap- pears most tragic in light of the impressive environmental record of previous Republican administrations. The Republican Party has a splendid histoty of en- vironmentally conscious ac- tions. Abraham Lincoln with- drew the Yosemite Valley and Ulysses Grant signed the bill establishing Yellowstone as the worlds first national park. Additionally Theodore Roosevelt created the National Forest Service and the first National Wildlife Refuge. The enactment of the National Environmental Policy Act, the creation of the Environmental Protection Agency, and the enactment of the Endangered Species Act, all took place under Republican ad- ministrations .... Even Walter Heckel, Nixon's first choice, proved to be concerned with the needs and requirements of the office. Virtually all major en- vironmental interest groups have initiated drives to procure the removal of Watt from this key position. One must be impressed by the sheer volume of actions taken by Watt that are in o.pposition to en- vironmental interests. An at- tempt to sumrnerize the most important of these actions understates the problem. Despite this difficulty the following is but a .sampling of controversial a\Ctions takeh by Watt. Watt has: --Written an internal memo on May 7 outlinipg goals of his department which include opening wilderness areas, removing regul~.J,tor;y restrictions, accelerating public land leasing, and realigning the entire Environmental Impact Statement System. . ~Told a group of park concessioners that if they had problems he would get rid of the problem or the person, whichever is quicker. • -stopped aU additions to the endangered species list and cut the budget of the Office of Endangered Species by 30 .percent. -Assumed the authority to establish levels for timber harvesting in National :forests normally at the discressi:on of the Agriculture Department. Perhaps most significant, he has proposed budget cuts which would slash the purcllasing power .of the Environmental Protection Agency by 64! per- cent. David Doniger of the Nati'onal Reseurce Defense Council, in reference to the proposed E.P .A. cuts, said, \These are not financial moves, they are political. \They are efforts to destroy the agency and the restraint it imposes on • 1 Continued on page 8 James Watt, Interior Scretary -Using procedures that eliminate protection for marine and costal en- vironments, Watt · has proposed opening virtually all of the outer continental shelf to oil and gas leasing; in comparison to the 40 million acres which have been leased in the last 28 yrs. this proposal would lease tracts at a rate of 200 million acres per year. Blue Skies· Over Union: -opened off shore areas .to oil and gas interests which after extensive hearings by the Carter administration have been excluded for such use. -Proposed rescinding the executive order (under Nixon and revised by Car- ter) prohibiting the use of four-wheel drive vehicles, snow mobiles and trail bikes in many delicate en- vironmental habitats.· In addition, as chairperson of the newly founded cabinet level Council on National Resources and the Environment, Watt has sought to expand decision making authority beyond the normal role of Secretary of the Interior. He has: -Stated his intention to weaken the Clean Air Act (normally, E.P.A. authority) Watson FelloWship The Art of ByD.BOOTH It occurred .to me, while thinking over the myriad ac- tivities available, that the one -activity which is missing on this campus is entertaining. When one thinks about the SC!ope of entertainment available on this campus, one is quickly limited to the large, ofteR tirEsome, fraternity party or the various cabarets and coffeehouses, which, · although always pleasant, lack the quick witty conversation of the bistro and the comfort of close friends . I am not suggesting a return to the snobby invitationals or formal card carrying; rather I am suggesting that Union begins to entertain on a small scale. Throw a pat1y for some special friends, say maybe five couples and a companion for yourself (even numbers seem to make things easier; no one is left out of the fun.) Atmosphere for private entertaining is very important. Evening en- tertaining must provide the following essentials, which will be discussed in detail: music, food and drink, and creature comforts. Music has always been im- portant to establishing a set- ting. Classical music is the motif which best fits tllis oc- ·casion, for its complex and subtle melodies seem to strike a chord within us of relaxation, of Entertaining mellowness, if one will. Until the movie ''10\ my personal favorite ha,d always been \Bolero mainly because of its insistent melody, which then builds to a shuddering climax. Now that this has · become cliche, I suggest Richard Strauss' \Don Juan.\ This begins with some clever foreplay, builds in intensity, climaxes, and, unlike \Bolero slows down the pace with some gentle, smiling notes of ap- preciation. The food and drink, aside from the company, form a large portion of the enjoyment at a party. Since few of us can afford the expenditure of a full bar, I suggest a few pitchers of one type of drink, such as hot but- tered rum or mulled cider. Hot buttered rum is made by gently heating the rum-- nowhere near boiling, mind you - and adding a bit of nutmeg, a squeeze of orange, and a big dab of butter. Mulled cider is heated the same way with a touch of giner, a couple dashes of cinnamon and nutmeg, a squeeze of an orange and a lemon, and is swirled with a cinnamon stick. But the most important thing is the creature comforts. Impress upon your guests that this is strictly informal. Greet them at the door in something casual yet alluring. For men, a button down shirt a size too large, untucked and cuffed. It should be white to set off that great tan that's going to fade soon. The pants should be your oldest pair of jeans; no shoes. The cologne should be something faintly suggestive, like musk or perhaps the rare Piccolo Monde. For women, a silky shirt of bright color, also unbuttoned and untucked. The room, as the guest enters, should be lit with soft candles, the music should be playing, and the floor covered with blankets and pillows for lounging. Try to recreate the atmosphere of the Arabian Nights. Once all the guests have arrived, it is time to enjoy your friends for the evening. This can be done in a variety of ways, the most popular being \mingling that is going from one member to the next, leaving each with something to remember you by. This mingling creates a one on one situation. I also suggest starting in threesomes and foursomes. It is just as easy to enjoy two friends at a time as it, is to enjoy one. If one of your friends has been down lately get the whole group together in a group situation: one could give her a massage, one could rub her · feet, or something of a similar nature. I think that more entertaining of this sort should go on on campus. So group together and enjoy your friends. The Watson fellowship allows students to· do just about anything they want - except to enter formal study. They can examine the cosmetology of a primitive society, religious art in the Orient, or any other unique and rewarding subject. The opportunity for this non- academic pursuit is not limited to tho~e with high GPA's, but is awarded to highly involved, motivated students who have a well developed idea of what they would do with one year and $10,000. For information contact Professor Harry Marten of the English Department. Eaglehead Award. Announced By JAMES V. KENEALLY Class '85 On Oct. 19, William Lichtman received the coveted Eagle head Award for outrageous aC!tion by virtue of uncontrolled behavior on the campus grounds. The weekly second floor Davidson south award came as a sbock to Bill, who commented, ~'I will never drink 160 proof Vodka again.\ The glory of the CAPITAL DISTRICT WORD PROCESSING SERVICE 142 State Street Albany, NY 12209 PROFESSIONAL RESUMES SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER Full Page Resume plus 20 Xerox copies $5.00 Offer expires 12-31-81 moment seemed to overwhelm Bill, but not enough to over- shadow his slightly less than four digit fine. Bill added, \This award is the best thing that ever happened to me, but I have to say that it proved to be costly.\ · Asked about the possible career opportunities that could evolve from such an award, Bill replied, \I have a chance to appear in two movies, if I can improve my somewhat gross body and I may possibly write a book.\ Despite Bill's- ac- complishments, he . won the award by only a single vote. No wonder, his competition was the one and only Sam Murray. On a normal week Sam would have won hands down, what with challenging DU to a fight, jwnping two stories from a dorm roof, flooding a sorority, jumping (?) from a bridge, and his vulgarities in Rrn. 253. A disappointed Murray com- mented, \It's a good thing I didn't win, because I couldn't remember last week anyway.\ It is this reporter's hunch that .Sam may cop the coveted award before the end of the term. R.A. Dave Battaglia added, \He's a sure bet.\ Murray's only reward for his efforts was a severe concussion, which may temporarily keep him out of contention for the award. .. -.,... ..... • • ·~=·nr -· . . Interested in Writing Features? Contact Judi at 6867 ... :us . ..._ .... , ........ -- ....... , ..... . ..

Page 6 OO'NOORDlE'NSlS, October M, 1981 Editorials ~ Letters ~ COIIfiQeJltary For,um :Reborn A remarkable transformation has taken place. Student Forum has changed, for the better. Understand the impact of that statement, the editors of Oon· cordiensi8 are APPLAUDING Student Forum. It is true, and we feel that our accolades· are wen deserved. President Turner has set a most pleasant tone ,for Forum meetings. He has insured that all present have their chance to speak uninterrupted. His well~ placed opinions from the chair have been primarily for the sake of clarity. Even the most trlvbll of points have been brought to discussion and a vote. This, we must admit, is a great stride towards insuring that democratic process rules in our govemment. President Turner has also pushed for the Union University Students Association and the Independent Student's Coalition. He has also taken an active role in disseminating information. regarding the Reagan Budget Cuts and how they will affect Union students. In ad.d.itlon, he is taking steps towards organizing a campus-wide letter wrltmg campaign that will hopefully have our voices heard in Albany and Washington. The Forum Vice Presidents have also taken a very active and productive position. Vice President McCaffrey has been getting what he probably feels r lis more attention than he would like as a result of his recent budget cuts. They were unpopular among many clubs and organizations, but he nonetheless made a policy and acted fairly and thoroughly when forming the budget. He has even gone so far as to set up a question answering session this Monday ( 4:30, 4th floor Carnegie). This is an important step toward clearing the air and opening up a helpful dialogue between the Finance Committee and the student clubs and organizations. We, the editors, will be there. We sincerely hope that many clubs . and organizations will be represented as well. Gary Chad dick, Vice President for Administration and Finance, and Chairman of Committee on Committees, ls planning an all-new Winter Carnival. From preliminary reports, he appears to have the entire event extremely well organized throughout and it should prove to be a very successful undertaking (snow or no snow). Many other members of Forum have also been contributing in a more active manner, as they should. One good example is the chairman of the IFC, Dan Logue. The IFC has organized \Greek Week.\ The benefits of such as event are manifold. The Greeks play an e:dremely important role on this campus and involve large numbers of students. Aside from forming strong brotherly and sisterly relationships between its members, the Greek system also sponsors many campus social events and community fund raising events. Now that the IFC has banded together under the Greek Week project, they should be well on the way to establishing a solid foundation for similar events. These accolades lead to an important conclusion. Student Forum has changed its approach and its function on campus. Is this an admission of guilt? Last year, Student Forum drowned itself in polltical rhetoric, argued about what it was that they should be arguing about, managed to chase its own tail for the whole year and accomplished little in the process. This year, under a new president, Forum has taken off in many directions. The point is that our elected officials are doing somethi'ng for a change, and it is in- deed a change. President Turner has managed to motivate the Forum to go out and serve its constituents. That is, after all, what we elected them to do. In- terestingly, the bureaucratic red tape has been minimized in the process. Playing with red tape is no longer the :major activity of Forum. As long as President Turner continues to insure Forum's active handling of important issues, small problems will remain just that, small, and a healthy and con- structive perspective will prevail. Spirit and Awareness With Greek Week upon us we are confronted with a plethora of parties. It seems as though every evening offers at least two or three parties to visit, in- teract and socialize. It is a great opportunity for the campus community to become familiar with the Greek system, and for the fraternities and sororities to open up to the independent factions of t:h.e college. BetWeen the beer pong and music, one aspect of partying must not be overlooked: wh-en there is a gathering of many people, whether they may belong to the organization giving the party or not, there is the potential for interp~rsonal physical aggression. The possibility that any party might be ruined, interrupted, or broken up due to a fight or act of vandalism is upsetting, but the possibility, and the tnought, that any Union College student would knowingly threaten, or threaten to harm another student ina social situation, is an atrocity. As members of the campus community, we feel it is our duty to remind people that as the number of social activities increases, so does the possibility for ·in- teraction, both positive and negative. Given this fact, it behooves all of us to take an interest if such a situation arises. We should not be content with saying \tsk tsk,\ drinking our beer, and going home. It is everybo~y's responsibility to report acts of aggression and violence, especially if they are the object of the_ wrongdoing. A sense of community cannot be built on stereotypes, fears, alleged wrongdoings, and harbored feelings ot resentment and revenge. Before w~ can truly consider ourselves a famUy, we must behave as one. As such, we can take a good lesson from the fraternities and sororities. In any one particular house, the brothers and sisters look out for their own, defending each other and protecting their interests. In comparison, Union College can be considered a large \Gre-ek qrganization.\ We all must look our for one another, and for the best interests of the college. One of the best ways to do tlUs is to help protect the rights of your fellow student, and by doing that, protect your own rights. It is unfortunate that the most pleasant place to be at any particular moment, a party, can also be the site of a most unpleasant event. If someone abuses you, either on purpose or by accident, speak up. It is your right and duty to right the wrong. When we all begin to look out for one another, Union will truly become a family, a closer community, and a safer place for all of us to study and socialize without worrying about being harassed and annoyed. Aggression stops only- when the people who are being harassed speak up, and only when the people committing the acts are reprimanded and chastised by the \collective con- science\ for their actions. The time is now. Correction: The headline for the article by Professor Helena Birecka that appeared in last week's issue should have read: \Beware Herbal Teas.\ . E~tors-in-Chief Managing Editor Associate Managing Editor · News Editors Features Editor Arts & Features Editor ASsociate Arts & Features Editor Campus Page Editors . Sports Editors Assistant Sports Editor Women'sSports Editor Photo Editor Sports Photo ·Editor Cartoonists Rachel I. M~del, Paul Grossman . JuHeisgro Diane Pavacic · Naomi Blank, Ed Albro Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Jay McDermott, Rob Norton Drew Hurley Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Bro8er Steve Lerner· David Neiblum, Lisa Snyder Staff Mandy Abram$, Saul Berley, Alan Binkow, Dan Booth, Thomas•Ching, Steven R. Fallon, Barton Hill Levine, Doug Landon, Susan Linehan, M~e Meaney, Rich Mintz, Peter Mohr, Mark Mottensen, D.C. Owens, Eric Ruben,. Business Staff Subscriptions · Photo Staff . Amelia A. Terhwte, Cindy J. Tenner Jenny Amler, Evelyn Gurdin E. Wesley Harris, ID Janet Giuliano, Norman ~aster, Robert Tang CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by- the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., .. U Division Street, Si(lney, New Y-ork·13838, (607) 56a-;7151. Ent~red in' the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription' rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in Ute Onited States. · ' CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), .and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). Fr E T the bu<l opi1 bitr ba<l I the no 1 To 1 tho: belc cut: IntE cen per per 33.e 2U an the Clu A funr the1 $25 bud tha1 tote: dra son the API gro IDOl fair jusl sho ThE tho pac bud ~ hav thai hac

Page 6 OONCOBDIENSIS, October 83, 1981 Editorials ~ Letters Forum Reborn A remarkable transformation has taken place. Student Forum has changed, for the better. Understand the impact of that statement, the editors of Oon· cordierui8 are APPLAUDING Student Forum. It is true, and we feel that our accolades· are well deserved. President Turner has set a most pleasant tone for Forum meetings. He has insured that all present have their chance to speak uninterrupted. His well- placed opinions from the chair have been primarily for the sake of clarity. Even the most trivial of points have been brought to discussion and a vote. This, we must admit, is a great stride towards insuring that democratic process rules in our government. President Turner has also pushed for the Union University Students Association and the Independent Student's Coalition. He has also taken an active role in disseminating information regarding the Reagan Budget Cuts and how they wUl affect Union students. In addition, he is taking steps towards organizing a campus-wide letter writing campaign that will hopefully have our voices heard in Albany and Washington. The Forum Vice Presidents have also taken a very active and productive position. Vice President McCaffrey has been getting what he probably feels' 1is more attention than he would like as a result of his recent budget cuts. They were unpopular among many clubs and organizations, but he nonetheless made a policy and acted fairly and thoroughly when forming the budget. He has even gone so far as to set up a question answering session this Monday ( 4: 30, 4th floor Carnegie). This is an important step toward clearing the air and opening up a helpful dialogue between the Finance Committee and the student clubs and organizations. We, the editors, will be there. We sincerely hope that many clubs and organizations will be represented as well. Gary Chaddick, Vice President for Administration and Finance, and Chairman of Committee on Committees, is planning an all-new Winter Carnival. From preliminary reports, he appears to have the entire event extremely well organized throughout and it should prove to be a very successful undertaking (snow or no snow). Many other members of Forum have also been contributing in a more active manner, as they should. One good example is the chairman of the IFC, Dan Logue. The IFC has organized \Greek Week.\ The benefits of such as event are manifold. The Greeks play an extremely important role on this campus and involve large numbers of students. Aside from forming strong brotherly and sisterly relationships between its members, the Greek system also sponsors many campus social events and community fund raising events. Now that the IFC has banded together under the Greek Week project, they should be well on the way to establishing a solid foundation for similar events. These accolades lead to an important conclusion. Student Forum has changed its approach and its function on campus. Is this an admission of guilt? Last year, Student Forum drowned itself in political rhetoric, argued about what it was that they should be arguing about, managed to chase its own tail for the whole year and accomplished little in the process. This year, under a new president, Forum has taken off in many directions. The point is that our elected officials are doing something for a change, and it is in- deed a change. President Turner has managed to motivate the Forum to go out and serve its constituents. That is, after all, what we elected them to do. In- terestingly, the bureaucratic red tape has been minimized in the process. Playing with red tape is no longer the major activity of Forum. As long as President Turner continues to insure Forum's active handling of important issues, small problems wUl remain just that, small, and a healthy and con- structive perspective will prevail. Spirit and Awareness With Greek Week upon us we are confronted with a plethora of parties. It seems as though every evening offers at least two or three parties to visit, in- teract and socialize. It is a great opportunity for the campus community to become familiar with the Greek system, and for the fraternities and sororities to open up to the independent factions of the college. Between the beer pong and music, one aspect of partying must not be overlooked: when there is a gathering of many people, whether they may belong to the organization giving the party or not, there is the potential for interp~rsonal physical aggression. The possibility that any party might be ruined, interrupted, or broken up due to a fight or act of vandalism is upsetting, but the possibility, and the thought, that any Union College student would knowingly threaten, or threaten to harm another student in a social situation, is an atrocity. As members of the campus community, we feel it is our duty to remind people that as the number of social activities increases, so does the possibility for ·in· teraction, both positive and negative. Given this fact, it behooves all of us to take an interest if such a situation arises. We should not be content with saying ''tsk tsk,\ drinking our beer, and going home. It is everybody's responsibility to report acts of aggression and violence, especially if they are the object of the_ wrongdoing. A sense of community cannot be built on stereotypes, fears, alleged wrongdoings, and harbored feelings of resentment and revenge. Before we can truly consider ourselves a family, we must behave as one. As such, we can take a good lesson from the fraternities and sororities. In any one particular house, the brothers and sisters look out for their own, defending each other and protecting their interests. In comparison, Union College can be considered a large \Greek organization.\ We all must look our for one another, and for the best interests of the college. One of the best ways to do this is to help protect the rights of your fellow student, and by doing that, protect your own rights. It is unfortunate that the most pleasant place to be at any particular moment, a party, can also be the site of a most unpleasant event. If someone abuses you, either on purpose or by accident, speak up. It is your right and duty to right the wrong. When we all begin to look out for one another, Union will truly become a family, a closer community, and a safer place for all of us to study and socialize without worrying about being harassed and annoyed. Aggression stops only when the people who are being harassed speak up, and only when the people committing the acts are reprimanded and chastised by the \collective con· science\ for their actions. The time is now. Memor:lei ....... . .-~ ,:-, .· -;·.- ... To tbe Editors: Maybe. Unio~. f;,noi .&;;b- ... a \ alL.,or.:yqu great olfll :CGll~gec aft~lk,aih Wll()c·.p:mte.ipmed in~:onr.,,2,pd MayiJe.,ail,tbat<,lJmion .·~s; is, old. Annuat• ·· ~Rom~cming., J?ariade. Old is not' gveatJ<@l~··i$,ol~!1\~ld !Db,e,f~Qat,s;,~etre'\YOFks.of·.art-:a;nd ts· a t:PUt;UblimJ' ~uttAt!~9Jtial qe$iuly;,refJ~~dthe,time ~d held erect only;,~l)Nl,the¥tnes,,tl\at . .~ginluit.Y p~t.)nto. ¢\nstllueting cl1ipple it. Old.is. an.endo.wm~mt. them •. Speq.ial. (;{)ngratU}a:J;:i()ns · stretching from here t.q there to . .um: · ~rs.: 1st p-lace- - · and a. tuition that does likeWise. Riellmon . . uth; 2t~d p:lace - West~ 3rd. place - Webster- Old, as 1 am. afraid tired and North: Congratulaticnsalsu the listless. That is, from the lcoks . the. winners of· the Jaek..o- of this 'scrapoook.' .'fnateois\:nul L;;mtern oontest; the entries how I remember Union, .. don't wer:e .super;b! let it be the way you do. . John Pjetr~ngelp Glassof198l Correction: Also. a speCial note of thanka to the Coneorfli()u5fs;' S'taif 'ior their fnll cofl'pe:ration and a~sisb)nce 1 in pr:om.oting. thisl;M The headline for the article by Professor Helena Birecka that appeared in last week's issue should have read: \Be-ware Herbal Teas.'' EW.tors-in-Chief Managing Editor Associate Managing Editor News Editors Features Editor Arts & Features Editor Associate Arts & Features Editor Campus Page Editors . Sports Editors Assistant Sports Editor Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Cartoonists Rachel I. Mandel, Paul Grossman Julie Isgro Diane Pavacic Naomi Blank,.Ed Albro Judi Lee Chervenak E()bFox Roberta R11binstein Maria Manfredonia Cbaris Richards Jay McDermott, Rob Norton Drew Hurley Cory Le-wkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner David Neiblwn, Lisa Snyder Staff Mandy Abrams, Saul Berley, Alan Binkow, Dan Booth, Thomas Ching, Steven R. Fallon, Barto11 Hill Levine, Doug Landon, Susan Linehan, M~e Meaney, Rich Mintz, Peter Mohr, Mark Mottensen, D.C. Owens, Eric Ruben, Business Staff Subscriptions Photo Staff Amelia A. Terhune, Cindy J. Tenner Jenny Amler, E-velyn Gurdin E. Wesley Harris, III Janet Giuliano, Norman Pflaster, Robert Tang CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by tbe student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publicatic>ns, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in~ the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription· rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. · CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). \ I I I \ i ' l .1 \ I l I I I I I TI the~ budl opin bitr~ badl I: the~ no Il Tot thos belo cuts Inte cent perc perc 33.6 21.3 an E the Clut A: fun( ther $25( budl that tot a drm som the; App grot mor fair. just! shot The: tho~ pad budl w havt that bad

I e, •. n nt u in~ ), CONCOB.DIBNSlS, October 83, 1981 Page 7 COIQDlel}tary . • Letters £ditorials M·iddle East Oil: Slick Interests From Where I Stand: IJY DANIEL ROSENFIELD It seems that there are a .fair nwnber of people eXpecting me to write something about the article in Concordlemlis dated October 15, 1981, featuring the Budget Cuts A Joke ny ALAN BINK.OW This column is written about _ the cuts in the student activities blldgets. .The focus is on my opinion that the cuts are ar- bitrary, e~cessive, and handled badly. I say this at the beginning of the column so that there will be no mistake as to where I stand. To that same end, I will not list those organizations to which I belong, and their percentage cuts: Dance Club- 69.9 percent; Intellectual Cabaret - 2.1 per- cent; Men's Glee Club - 48.7 percent; Mountebanks - 16.7 percent; Philosophy Forum - 33.6 percent; Concordiensis • 21.3 percent. Additionally, I am an executive board member of the Dance Club and the Glee Club. - As I look over the list of 49 funded organizations, Isee that there is total of approximately $250,000 in their r-equested budgets. It is ridiculous to think that they can all be funded in total; there is only $200,000 to draw from. Cuts must be made somewhere. What I object to is the arbitrary nature of the cuts. Approximately 32 percent of the groups had cuts of 40 per-cent or more. This hardly strikes me as fair. But I could ·see the cuts as justified if: (1) A criteria of who sliould be cut was evident. (2) There was concrete proof that those funds cut were just padding their respective budgets. What criteria? In the past, we have been given the bromide that groups which do not ''put back into the community\ as <· much as some others would be cut more heavily. But among the heaviest cuts were Con- cordiensis, WRUC, The ,Speakers' Forum, the Glee Clubs, and the Jazz Ensemble. These groups have always been considered among those who do put back; however, this criteria seemed to be ignored. Yet we have not been given another and I refuse to believe that so many activities padded their budgets by 40 percent. I also object to the cuts on the grounds that a contingency fund exists. Admittedly, it is fine to have a little cushion, in case a new group comes along, or someone mistakenly over- spends their budget. To deliberately cut back to create a $21,000 fund strikes me as irresponsible. This new ap- proach will create several problems. Long range planning by activities will be more dif- ficult and consequently suffer, many activities will seek money during spring term, and (if the money is not spent) seniors will lose out on their tax dollars. I hate to say it, but the Finance Committee seems to be playing God. They seem to have noticed that they are powerless most of the year, and the con- tingency fund size is designed to extend that power~ I know that statement _sounds terrible, especially since I don't know any of the Financial Committee members. But this column is called \From Where I Stand\ and that's what my view looks like. My final_ objection to the oudgets is. the lateness of their arrival. According to the Constitution of the Student Government Association, the Finance Committee must \recommend an annual Student Government Association budget for the following fiscal year no later than the fifth week of the .preceding spring term.\ Groups with big plans for fall term are having the rug pulled out from under them. Other groups have already spent money that they would not have sp~t with prior knowledge of the budget cuts. The -Finance Committee has suggested raising additional funds in other ways; dues for members and increased ad- mission fees for events. But this newspaper, the Student Forum, and the administration have decried the apathy on this campus for years. If there isn't enough money, then the Activities Fee should be raised to cover it. The Activities Fee hasn't been raised in years. Activities can only tighten their belts so much due to inflation and new groups. Eventually, they must have a respite. Why not now, before they suffer any more. Editor's Note: We want to reiterate that the above opinion is Mr. Binkow's solely. We are anxious to hear responses, and will allow Mr. Peter McCaffrey, Student Forum Vice President for Finance, a -chance to respond In next week's issue, if he so wishes. -ALL.. ~ONI: ,\)A~DY ~ opinions of Professor Pelltiere on the Middle 'East. To that end I have certain feelings on the issue. The ,major attraction in the Middle East is oil. They have it, we want it. {For the sake of the following argument, I will assume that there are few or no producing wells in the U.S. On this assumption Middle East oil is quite valuable.) In theory they want to sell it and we want to buy it. A nice simple economic solution should result. However, this is not the case. Enter politics, that spectre that seems to make what should be simple, complex. The Arabs do not like our living style, we live in excess so they say;. (I don't own 65 Rolls Royces) therefore, they do not sell us oil. They decide that they do not like-U.S. policy towards Israel; they do not sell us oil. Essentially what they are doing is using their commodity as a lever to try to force the U.S. to do the things th9t are in line with Arab policy. This is not unusual, most countries attempt this. The name of the game is protect your own interests. Do that which will benefit you. If you do not, you will be trod upon by everyone else. So what? The U.S. has to realize that the Arabs have their own interests and they do not include the welfare of the U.S. Our ideologies, goals, and morals are not the same. The only common interest that the two countries share is the..-oil business; and so long as there exist mutually agreeable terms, the U.S. and the oil rich Arab states will do business. If they want our money and arms then they should have to put up with our policies whatever they are. They cer- tainly are not doing the U.S. any favors, the U.S. should not bend over backwards for them. The question of AWACS should not be tangled up with what the Israelis say, or what anyone else thinks, it should be a question of U.S. policy based on the interests of the U.S. As for the peace proeess, the U.S. will not be able to impose a peace on Israel or anyone else in the Middle East because the people will not be willing to accept it. They will fight it to the bitter end. If the U.S. wants to enforce unpopular policy they will quite possibly have to use force. In this case there will be no winners; the Middle East will be destroyed. There will be many mothers mourning their son's senseless deaths in the U.S. and as the U.S. should have learned in Vietnam, the out- come will not be changed any way. Peace will come when the two sides concerned can agree to terms. Peace will be slow in coming, to be sure; parties involved don't get along, by tradition. This is what made Sadat so great, he was able to take a step forward, to try friendship (perhaps losing all wars against Israel helped make this step possible). He found that Begin really did not have horns; he was not such a bad guy after all. The U.S. cannot buy friends. They will turn away from the U.S. as soon as the U:S. carrot (on the proverbial stick) runs out. What the U.S. has to do is that which suits the U.S. best. Our friends will remain our friends regardless of what we do because they have something in conunon with us besides the brands of arms that they buy. All of you perceptive students should have noticed two things: First, the U.S. has very few real friends. Second, I do not agree with the popular belief that the. Arabs are the only source of oil. That however is for another column. We welcome your opinions. Deadline for letters is 7 p.m., Tuesday night.

! I . I I \ CONOORDIENSIS, October S.t, 1981 Page 7 CoiQIQelltary . ~ Letters Editorials ~ Middle East Oil: Slick Interests • • ,:,_;• •. '' •.• • ;.- I ~·, ,-,. ':\' '• • From Where I Stand: By DANIEL ROSENFIELD It seems that there are a fair number of people expecting me to write something about the article in Concordiensis dated October 15, 1981, featuring the Budget Cuts A Joke By ALAN BINKOW This colmnn is written about the cuts in the student activities budgets. The focus is on my opinion that the cuts are ar- bitrary, excessive, and handled badly. I say this at the beginning of the column so that there will be no mistake as to where I stand. To that same end, I will not list those organizations to which I belong, and their percentage cuts: Dance Club- 69.9 percent; Intellectual Cabaret - 2.1 per- cent; Men's Glee Club - 48.7 percent; Mountebanks - 16.7 percent; Philosophy Forum - 33.6 percent; Concordiensis - 21.3 percent. Additionally, I am an executive board member of the Dance Club and the Glee Club. As I look over the list of 49 funded organizations, I see that there is total of approximately $250,000 in their requested budgets. It is ridiculous to think that they can all be funded in total; there is only $200,000 to draw from. Cuts must be made somewhere. What I object to is the arbitrary nature of the cuts. Approximately 32 percent of the groups had cuts of 40 percent or more. This hardly strikes me as fair. But I could see the cuts as justified if: ( 1) A criteria of who should be cut was evident. (2) There was concrete oroof that those funds cut were just padding their respective budgets. What criteria? In the past, we have been given the bromide that groups which do not \put back into the community\ as much as some others would be cut more heavily. But among the heaviest cuts were Con- cordiensis, WRUC, The ~peakers' Forum, the Glee Clubs, and the Jazz Ensemble. These groups have always been considered among those who do put back; however, this criteria seemed to be ignored. Yet we have not been given another and I refuse to believe that so many activities padded their budgets by 40 percent. I also object to the cuts on the grounds that a contingency fund exists. Admittedly, it is fine to have a little cushion, in case a new group comes along, or someone mistakenly over- spends their budget. To deliberately cut back to create a $21,000 fund strikes me as irresponsible. This new ap- proach will create several problems. umg range planning by activities will be more dif- ficu1t and consequently suffer, many activities will seek money during spring term, and (if the money is not spent) seniors will lose out on their tax dollars. I hate to say it, but the Finance Committee seems to be playing God. They seem to have noticed that they are powerless most of the year, and the con~ tingency fund size is designed to extend that power. I know that statement sounds terrible, especially since I don't know any of the Financial Committee members. But this column is called \From Where I Stand\ and that's what my view looks like. My final objection to the budgets is the lateness of their arrival. According to the Constitution of the Student Goverrunent Association, the Finance Committee must \recommend an annual Student Goverrunent Association budget for the following fiscal year no later than the fifth week of the preceding spring term.\ Groups with big plans for fall term are having the rug pu1led out from under them. Other groups have already spent money that they would not have sp~nt with prior knowledge of the budget cuts. The Finance Committee has suggested raising additional funds in other ways; dues for members and increased ad- mission fees for events. But this newspaper, the Student Forum, and the administration have decried the apathy on this campus for years. If there isn't enough money, then the Activities Fee should be raised to cover it. The Activities Fee hasn't been raised in years. Activities can only tighten their belts so much due to inflation and new groups. Eventually, they must have a respite. Why not now, before they suffer any more. Editor's Note: We want to reiterate that the above opinion is Mr. Binkow's solely. We are anxious to hear responses, and will allow Mr. Peter McCaffrey, Student Forum Vice President for Finance, a chance to respond in next week's issue, if he so wishes. opinions of Professor Pelltiere on the Middle East. To that end I have certain feelings on the issue. The ;major attraction in the Middle East is oil. They have it, we want it. (For the sake of the following argument, I will asswne that there are few or no producing wells in the U.S. On this assumption Middle East oil is quite valuable.) In theory they want to sell it and we want to buy it. A nice simple economic solution should result. However, this is not the case. Enter politics, that spectre that seems to make what should be simple, complex. The Arabs do not like our living style, we live in excess so they say; (I don't own 65 Rolls Royces) therefore, they do not sell us oil. They decide that they do not like U.S. policy towards Israel; they do not sell us oil. Essentially what they are doing is using their commodity as a lever to try to force the U.S. to do the things th~t are in line with Arab policy. This is not unusual, most countries attempt this. The name of the game is protect your own interests. Do that which will benefit you. If you do not, you will be trod upon by everyone else. So what? The U.S. has to realize that the Arabs have their own interests and they do not include the welfare of the U.S. Our ideologies, goals, and morals are not the same. The only common interest that the two countries share is the.. eil business; and so long as there exist mutually agreeable terms, the U.S. and the oil rich Arab states will do business. If they want our money and arms then they should have to put up with our policies whatever they are. They cer- tainly are not doing the U.S. any favors, the U.S. should not bend over backwards for them. The question of AWACS should not be tangled up with what the Israelis say, or what anyone else thinks, it should be a question of U.S. pelicy based on the interests of the U.S. As for the peace process, the U.S. wil<l not be able to impose a peace on Israel or anyone else in the Middle East because the people will not be willing to accept it. They will fight it to the bitter end. If the U.S. wants to enforce unpopular policy they will quite possibly have to use force. ln this case there will be no winners; the Middle East will be destroyed. There will be many mothers mourning their son's senseless deaths in the U.S. and as the U.S. should have learned in Vietnam, the out- come will not be changed any way. Peace will come when the two sides concerned can agree to terms. Peace will be slow in coming, to be sure; parties involved don't get along, by tradition. This is what made Sadat so great, he was able to take a step forward, to try friendship (perhaps losing all wars against Israel helped make this step possible). He found that Begin really did not have horns; he was not such a bad guy after all. The U.S. cannot buy friends. They will turn away from the U.S. as soon as the U.S. carrot (on the proverbial stick) runs out. What the U.S. has to do is that which suits the U.S. best. Our friends will remain our friends regardless of what we do bee a use they have something in common with us besides the brands of arms that they buy. All .of you perceptive students should have noticed two things: First, the U.S. has very few real friends. Second, I do not agree with the popu1ar belief that the Arabs are the only source of oil. That however is for another column. We welcome your opinions. Deadline for letters is 7 p.m., Tuesday night. -fiLL. ~ON~ , \)ADDY ~ 1

What's H~appenlng T'his Week Friday, October 23 Glee Club Reception Strauss Lounge 10-1 p.m. Physics Conference SS 0161-6 p.m. ABC Mtg. with .P. Harkess Milano Lounge 3:30-6 p.m. Cross Country vs. Siena and · Oneonta 4 p.m. Fi'lm: \Deliverance\ SS 016, 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Monte banks-stage 11-7:30-11 p.m. Tri City Folk Dancers-Arts 202~7: 45-Midnight Clee Club Concert-Memorial Chapel-8 p.m. Saturday, October 24 Field Hockey vs. Wells-11 a.m. Varsity Soccer vs. Platt- .sburgb-4 p.m. Optemetry Exam Hu 115--8- 4:30p.m. Creative Writing Workshop SS 110-112-6:30 p.m. Film: \Deliverance\ 7, 9, and 11 p.m.-SS 016- Volleyball--New England Invitational Tourn. Sunday, October 25 Big Brother-Big Sister (Boys)..S.L.-12:30-3 p.m. Catholic Liturgy-S.L.-7:30-9 p.m. Film: \Deliverance\ SS 016- 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Volleyball N.E. Invitational Tourn. Big Brother-Big Sister (Girls)-3.L. 3-5 p.m. ~ Monday, October 26 Glee Club Rehearsal -Arts 202-6:15-10:15 p.m. .. Monntebanks-Conf. Rm. A- 7:30-11 p.m. J.V. Football vs. Williams-3 -p.m. Student Forum--S.L.--7-10 p.m. Photography-s.L.-10-5 p.m. Tuesday, October 27 Dance Workshop-Arts 202-5- 7:30 p.m. Outing · Club-S.L.-7:30-8:30 p.m. Fencing Club-Arts 202-8-11 p.m. Monntebanks-Stage II-7:30- 11 p.m. Photography..:.S.L.-10-5 p.m. Wednesday, October 28 • Varsity Soccer vs. Oneonta-7 p.m. U.C. Christian Fellowship- Fourth Floor Lounge-4:30-5:30 p.m. Scuba Diving Club-SS 012-7-9 p.m. Movie-SS 016-7, 9, and 11 p.m. Chess Club--Fourth Floor Lounge--8: 30-midnight Monntebanks-Conf. Rm. A- 7:30.11 p.m. Photography-S. L.-10-5 p.m. Thursday, October 29 Photography-3.1.-10-5 p.m. Biology Club-Conf. Rm. A- 4:30-5:30 p.m. Dance Club-S.L.-7-9 p.m. Glee Club Rehearsal--Arts 202-6:15-10:15 p.m. Minerva Film Series-SS 016- 7:30-9:30 p.m. Monntebanks-3tage II-7:30- 11 p.m. OONOORDIENSIB, October S3, 1981 e , Ices • • Continued f·rom page 5 health endangering things in- dustry does.\ A spokesmen for Union's Student Environmental Alliance, in refering to Watt's actions and the Reagan Administrations policies in N d B I ·d 7 general, replied, \The Reagan . e e 0 0 · . 1 Administration very badly ...... wants a healthy economy. Stage Bloodr Fangs, Capes, Make Up, Everything F~r the Vampire! Clearly, seeking economic strength by letting industry run wild, at the expense of the en- vironment only gives the economy an appearance of health. The environmental policies of. Reagan's govern- ment to date are reckless and 444 State St. shortsighted.\ · The Student Environmental The Costumer Schenectady, N. Y • 1 d Alliance recent y sponsore a 374•7442 petition drive calling for the 15,000 Rental Costumes removal of Watt as Secretary of l,OOO's of Masks&. the Interior in front of .Carniege Accessories it ·Hall. These petitions, along with thousands of others were J1EW ME Sr&m II.IU.OWEEII.BEIDIUUTIIS delivered to Washington this L---------- ..... ~.....,~~~~· '::\'!_=::_~-=-=-~-==.-~-~- ~~:..- ..:- ..... ------------ -~-----------------~~~~- . I · · ~w~ • First Act: ERIC RUBEN . ~ Second Act: The fish Heads 1 featuring: DANI RAPHAEL ·~ MIKE ZANTA : STEVE KOELBOLL 1 JIM WARD ~ . . I MC: LARRY FRANKEL 1 General Nottices Harold W.. Blodgett,. Thomas Lamont Professor of Ancient and· Modern Literature .Emeritus, will address the Friends of the Union College Libi·ary on Friday, Oct. 30. Blodgett's talk, titled \Some Reflections on 'Growth and Change in Leaves of Grass,\ will begin at 8 p.m. in SS 016, and all interested persons are welcome to attend. An informal reception will follow in the Schaffer Library Music Room. In conjunction with this talk, an exhibit on Walt Whitman, mcluding several rare titles f.rom Blodgett's personal collection, will be on display in Schaffer Library through the end of the fall term. Local bookseller and former member of the Schaffer Library staff Wayne Somers will head the Friends of the Union College Library this year, library Director Jean C. Pelletiere announced. Infant deaths are no trick or treat. Join Gapital Distri.ct INF ACT in going to White Plains on Halloween Day. Why? Because you can help save infant lives by fighting \Bottle· Baby\ Disease. March Saturday, October 31, in Halloween costume to tbe gates of Nestle, worldwide promoter of infant formula. Buses leave Albany-Troy- · Schenectady 8:30 a: m. and return 6 p.m. Tickets $10. For information call 463-4411. The Union ,College Metro New ·York Alumni Club will sponsor an October cocktail party on Wednesday, Oct. 28, at the Cornell Club, 155 East 50th St. (between Lexington and Third Avenue). For more information, contact the Union College Alumni Office. ''Adirondack Forum~'' a five- part lecture and discussion series that will focus on the protection and use of the Adirondacks, begi'ns at Union College Tuesday, Oct. 20. · Norman J. VanValkenburg, director of the State Environ- mental Conservation Depart- ment Division of Lands and Forests, will discuss \A History of the Forest Preserve.\ All presentations in the series will be held in Social Sciences 016 at 7: 30 p.m. For more information, call the Union College Office of . Graduate and C(}ntinuing Studies at 370-6288. Phi Beta Kappa Offers Student Research Grants. Alpha of New York Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Union College is again accepting applications for grants to assist student research during the academic year. The research should be part of a course, in- dependent study, or senior project undertaken at Union. Faculty are asked to encourae their students facing research expenses to apply. Professor R. E. Hurley, Institute of Administration and Management, Union College will ·present a colloquiwn on Economic Recovery Tax Act of I I .... _ _. ____ _ ---~----~-----~------------~-~-~-~~-- ~- Continued on page 9 0 . . f. .... , ·~ {_ I . a ........ 198! ·Oct Rm Col IV Pre La1 col I Ihl all of for 12: thE t thE Cu C.h be Pr I)Te Oc be Lo ca to

Page 8 ;,:, r '~, 0 ' ...... (_.; b •• a ~ • \\' {.,!._ ... \ ... 0 ~,.. VI'O Q .. ~...-'\.~~\'\.\' ~ What's Happening This Week Friday, October 23 Glee Club Reception Strauss Lounge 10-1 p.m. Physics Conference SS 016 1-6 p.m. ABC Mtg. with P. Harkess Milano Lounge 3:30-6 p.m. Cross Country vs. Siena and · Oneonta 4 p.m. Film: \Deliverance\ SS 016, 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Montebanks-Stage II-7:30-11 p.m. Tri City Folk Dancers-Arts 202-7 :45-Midnight Clee Club Concert-Memorial Chapel-S p.m. Saturday, October 24 Field Hockey vs. Wells-11 a.m. Varsity Soccer vs. Platt- sburgh-4 p.m. Optemetry Exam Hu 115--8- 4:30 p.m. Creative Writing Workshop SS 110-112~:30 p.m. Film: \Deliverance\ 7, 9, and 11 p.m.-SS 016 Volleyball--New England Invitational Tourn. Sunday, October 25 Big Brother-Big Sister (Boys)-S.L.-12:30-3 p.m. Catholic Liturgy-S.L.-7 :30-9 p.m. Film: \Deliverance\ SS 016- 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Volleyball N.E. Invitational To urn. Big Brother-Big Sister (Girls.)-S.L. 3-5 p.m. - Monday, October 26 Glee Club Rehearsal -Arts 202--6:15-10:15 p.m. Monntebanks-Conf. Rm. A- 7 :30-11 p.m. J.V. Football vs. Williams-3 ?.m. Student Forum--S.L.--7-10 p.m. Photography-S.L.-10-5 p.m. Tuesday, October 27 Dance Workshop-Arts 202-5- 7:30 p.m. Outing · Club-S.L.-7:30-8:30 p.m. Fencing Club-Arts 202--8-11 p.m. Monntebanks-Stage II-7:30- 11 p.m. Photography-S.L.-10-5 p.m. Wednesday, October 28 Varsity Soccer vs. Oneonta-7 p.m. U.C. Christian Fellowship- Fourth Floor Lounge-4:30-5:30 p.m. Scuba Diving Club-SS 012-7-9 p.m. Movie-SS 016-7, 9, and 11 p.m. Chess Club--Fourth Floor Lounge-S: 30-midnight Monntebanks-Conf. Rm. A- 7:30-11 p.m. Photography-S.L.-10-5 p.m. Thursday, October 29 Photography-s.L.-10-5 p.m. Biology Club-Conf. Rm. A- 4:30-5:30 p.m. Dance Club-S.L.-7-9 p.m. Glee Club Rehearsal--Arts 202--6:15-10: 15 p.m. Minerva Film Series-SS 016- 7:30-9:30 p.m. Monntebanks-Stage II-7 :30- 11 p.m. OONOORDIENSIS, October 13, 1981 e Ices , .. Poom- You mell yukky! fup-You're the best) and ANYTIME you want to uhelp\ Leenie-40 tin,les around the me, just go right abead. Ted. Fii!ld House equals Likavittos --#:.·~-...:..-------- plus Dino and Xeno. No problem Dear Rail~ I understand your ~ moods, or at least I try. Sometimes what we want to do MBK-~Tbursday lunch is isnotalwaystlle best thing. For · mine! example, I really wanted to Delilah-Yon are the Lorelei of his fantasy but; will anything happen? .· Baby Blues. ru be patient. spend S0me time with you these past few days, but it wasn't fot· the good of either you or I. I'm looking forward to .the n~xt few days · when we ean get re-. acquainted. Love, Sweet Cheeks. We'll make it work. I love you.- T.B. Joanne-love the way you Charlie, You're a loser. Are move them daneint feetH i we doing this for Popularity or ability? ' Is it SUNDAY STILL? Burr; The score is Burr: 3, Charis, you•re not very Me: l .... Thanx. nice!!!! BR-Thanks for the good time- -always at Union (I'll explain!) Cory-Neither are you! t ! past youl' bed tim~BIJ}le Glenn: rm sorry I acted so foolishly , last weekend, Isn't everyone entitled to three strikes? Barb-Yes, yqu DID SaY itl Duck-~DRINK! . From pledge a Tolds: NICI£ to ki®ap an RPI ·hookey player! !. , . - . - . .. . . Ness,. Black Soiet- l\ttarl, Mel, Dorcas, Share-All, .}iaymo~ Kathy ~oz·: YOU WUH: .OA FOOW!!! . Lypne-'Hope you like your room. We missed you, kiddo. Love, Beetle and D()dy Beavers. Romp!! Myrl No. 1, · Noj, Petie, & Beav! 253 F loves ya. -A- McDuff-Man does not have to live by bread alone-Thats why M.s.~~ Weight problem? he enjoys the chicken pie 'in his -- Freshmen Record Amy-Want to go to Mass. and see P (B) and K.M., Lisa Mark-Bow's \Your friend Casey?'~ Here;s to mean letters and ex,. friends. h.P. life-chopped liver Kath-Rough to.ugh,...physies~ eco-hitchday~OK·Endulge in pizza, the Key finder, alias: shithead, oloves you. Amy-~Chem, I'm so far behind, I think I'm first. Help- Happy Birthday Daddy! t P.S. Lisa I love you alot! G.R. Are we ever going to run Kappa Sig: The party was into each otbet.-Lisa great! When is the ne.\Ct one? Stardusters Mark-· You have beautiful eyes. Lisa Gaily-! miss you so much. I wisb you were here. (You too Amy-Here~s t<> another year. . MOM! )-Pam What would I do without you! ---~----.--- Lisa · LF-You, too! ,. George, First gear really isn't OM-Even you! that bad. Just wait til you see :my !.awn light up. Love, Dizzy Sean-Youtre still the one-. · hairy legs.. ONE. ------~--~------ '1'. Happy Birthday babe. xoxo Barton-Banna Squash? ME T.F.D.S. I still love ya-No. 2 Beth- I heard the wet look was in-? Andy D.-I love your great poems. P.S. I love you, John! D~S.-Glad yGu faund your way out of the Pittsburgh smog. Penkaface--Do you· be with anyone else but me? G. DDD's....Spaglretti anyone? Deltoids: NICE to be a bunch of P-I..(} PIGS!! Happy Birthday~ Loosewoman! Delta love, your roomie To the Marl: HBTY, 1IBTY. HBDM, HBTY!! Love, JM Fisbhead-Do it up tonight!! Tri-Delt's behind you! t · Watt ... Continued from page 5 health endangering things in- dustry does.\ A spokesmen for Union's Telly-Nice haircut. I didn't kn<JW you had ears like Cary Grant. (Sorry, I couldn't resist!) Brian-You shouldn't stay out . Student Environmental '\=======================~ Alliance, in refering to Watt's II\ actions and the Reagan \ . . \: \ Need Blood? Stage Blood, FaRgs, Capes, Make Up, Everything For the Vampire I The Costumer 444 State St. Schenectady, N.Y. 374·7442 1 5,000 Rental Costumes l,OOO's of Masks & Acaessories lt MEW 1'011 STAm IIIJ.,LOWEEI.JIED(IU.DTEIS ~() Administrations policies in general, replied, \The Reagan Administration very badly wants a healthy economy. Clearly, seeking economic strength by letting industry run wild, at the expense of the en- vironment only gives the economy an appearance of health. The environmental policies of Reagan's govern- ment to date are reckless and shortsighted.\ The Student Environmental Alliance recently sponsored a petition drive calling for the removal of Watt as Secretary of the Interior in front of Carniege Hall. These petitions, along with thousands of others were delivered to Washington this week. . -----------------------------------------------~ I I I I I I I This Week First Act: ERIC RUBEN Second Act: The Fish Heads featuring: DANI RAPHAEL MIKE ZANTA I STEVE KOELBOLL: JIM WARD I MC: LARRY FRANKEL I I ---~------------~----------------~------------- Gen:eral Nottices Harald W. Blodgett, Thomas Lamont Professor ef Ancient and Modern Literature Emeritus, will address the Friends of the Unien Cellege Library on Friday, Oct. 30. Blodgett's talk, titled \Some .Reflections on 'Growth and Change in Leaves of Grass,\ will begin at 8 p.m. in SS 016, and all interested persons are welcome to attend. An informal reception will follaw in the Schaffer Library Music Room. ln conjunction with this talk, an exhibit on Walt Whitman, including several rare titles fram Blodgett's personal collection, will be on display in Schaffer Library through the end of the fall term. Local boekseller and former member of the Schaffer Library staff Wayne Somers will head the Friends of the Union College Library this year. library Director Jean C. Pelletiere announced. Infant deaths are no trick or treat. Join Gapital District INF ACT in going to White Plains on Halloween Day. Why? Because you can help save infant lives by fighting \Bottle- Baby\ Disease. March Saturday, October 31, in Halloween costume to the gates of Nestle, warldwide promoter of infant formula. Buses leave Al'bany-Troy- . Schenectady 8:30 a;rn. and return 6 p.m. Tickets $10. For information call 463-4411. The Union Col'lege Metro New York Alumni Club will sponsor an October cocktail party on Wednesday, Oct. 28, at the Carnell Club, 155 East 50th St. (between Lexington and Third Avenue). For more information, centact the Union College Alumni Office. \Adirondack Forum,\ a five- part lecture and discussion series that will focus on the protection and use of the Adirondacks, begins at Union College Tuesday, Oct. 20. Norman J. VanValkenburg, director of the State Environ- mental Conservation Depart- ment Division of Lands and Forests, will discuss \A History of the Forest Preserve.\ All presentations in the series will be held in Social Sciences 016 at 7: 30 p.m. For more information, call the Union College Office of Graduate and Centinuing Studies at 370-6288. Phi Beta Kappa Offers Student Research Grants. Alpha of New York Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Union College is again accepting applications for grants to assist student research during the academic year. The research should be part of a course, in- dependent study, or senior project undertaken at Union. Faculty are asked to encourae their students facing research expenses to apply. Professor R. E. Hurley, Institute of Administ1·ation and Management, Union College will present a colloquium on Economic Recovery Tax Act of Continued on .page 9 l' ' ' ·' '' l ' 19 0< R~ C< P1 L~ co II a o: f( t1 (

' e 9 OONOORDIENSIS, October ~3, 1981 Page 9 • Ices More General· Nottices 1981. This will be on Thursday, October 22, 1981-3:45 .p.m. in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. Maureen Ihrie, As.sistant Profes.sor of Modern Languages, will present a colloquium entitled, ''Don Spanish Table Professors Diez-Herencia, Thrie and Vinick cordially invite all Spanish-speaking members of the community to join them for lunch and conversation at 12:30 on Tuesday, October 27, in the Pub. All levels invited. Campus Protestant Fellowship Newman Club Jorge Lara-Brand, director of the Council on Theology and Culture of the Presbyterian c.Jnn:ch in the United States, will be the guest of the Campus Protestant Fellowship and the l')rewrn.an. Club SJ.Inday evening, October 25. The meeting will begin at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, and members of the campus community are invited to attend. Quijote: The Product of Classical Skepticism\ on Tuesday, October 27, at 4:30 p.m. in SS 016. Coffee and Tea at 4:00 p.m. All are welcome to attend. Mystic Seaport P.rogram The program in American Maritime Studies, accredited by Williams College and taught at the Mystic Seaport Musewn in Mystic, Connecticut will present information to in- terested Union students at a meeting on Tuesday, November 17, ab. 1 :3() p.tn. Professor Benjamin Labaree, director of the program, will conduct an open meeting in the Dean's Conference Room, in the Science and Engineering Building, S-lOO. Phi Beta Kappa offers Student Research Grants Lara·Br.aud, founding director of the Hispanic~ Ametican Institute of Austin, Texas, will discuss the chur- ches' role in the struggle for justice and freedom in Latin America. He is the author of Social Justice and the Latin Churches and Our Claim on the Future, books which explore the ethics of U.S.-Latin American relations. Minerva Committee On Thurswiy, October 22, at 7:30 in SS 01~, the Department of Modern Languages and the Minerva Committee present part 3 of the Fall Hispanic FUm Series: Summerskin, by Leopold Torre Nilsson. The plot concerns a young woman who is promised a year in Paris and an extravagant wardrobe if she Alpha of New Yor~ Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Union College is again accepting applications for grants to assist student research during the academic year. The research should be part of a course, in· dependent study, or senior project undertaken at Union. In the past, students have used these awards· to· purchase specialized laboratory equip- ment, acquire books and data not otherwise available on campus, and finance mailing or telephone expenses associated with their · research. Applications should be ad- dressed to· the President of Alpha Chapter, Prof. Ruth Anne Evans., Schaffer Library. Ceteris Paribus The Union College Economics. Club: Ceteris Paribus . . . Presents. the firs.t \Food for acts as companion for a dying young man_,__Subtitles. Spring Break '82 After a cold winter in ·Schenectady, how does Florida sound? 7 days and 7 nights in Daytona Beach with students from Union and Skidmore Colleges, March 19-28, 1982. The price is $239 for round trip express transportation on a lavoratory equipped, air con- ditioned deluxe motorcoach, 7 nights at Quality Inn Reef (tax included). Deposit of $50 must be in to Mrs. Marra at Student Affairs by Dec. 4, 1981. (Includes $25 damage deposit). Capacity is 48 people; first come, first served basis. For more information call: Steve Brown at 370-6635 or Mrs. Marra at 370-6118. Company Interviews ' crouse Hinds 10-27-81 New schedule for MBA's Only f~9Bu~~ Sheet Fairchild Sub Assembly Group-.Latham will have . an Orientation Session on Tuesday, October 27 in 4th Floor Student Lo~ge, Carnegie Hall from 7:00 - 9:00 PM. Please stop by the Placement Office and let us know if you are interested. Recruiting Date October 28, 198i. Portsmouth Shipbuilding will hold an 9rientation Session in the 4th Floor Student Lounge, Carnegie Hall, on Tuesday, November 3 from 7:00 - 9:00 PM. They will be recruitin'? on November Sign-up are on October 19, at 11: 30 AM. O'Brien & Gere 11-11-81 C.E. 's & M.E.'s October 26, 1:15 PM \ c.s. Majors for November 3, 10:00 AM Donnelley Market~ng 11-11-81 . Programming and Software Engr • MPR ASSQCiates 11-12-81 C.E. 's, E. E., & M.E. 's November 3, 10:00 AM MPR Associates will hold Orientation Session in Strauss Lounge on November 11 from 6:30 - 9:00 PM. Time Distribution ll-17-81 Any Major for November 2, 1:30PM Se·ry,ices . ' COMING, NOVEMBER 7th The ·Social Committee Presents: ·Fall Fling with FAST FINGERS and Comedian PETER FOGEL a.t the Ramada Inn Ballroom ' So get your floor., friends and fraternity and come on down for a fun fi lied evening of music, dance and comedy. Tickets are $5.00 or $40.00 for a table of ten~. On sale this Monday in Carnegie._ - Body and Thought.\ Thursday, Oct. 29 from 12:30 to 1:30 in the Banquet Room. Topic: We Saw China and Lived to TeU the Tale! Encompassing an in.- formal lecture and discussion on the Chinese Economy and Society, with Prof. . Bruce L. Reynolds, Dept. of Economics and China Specialist. The price is $2;00. 1981 Yearbook on sale at the Student Activity Office. The Philosophy Forum lunch table will meet Wednesday, October 28 in the Pub. All are welcome. Volunteers needed ·to visit homebound elderly for one hour per week. If interestd, please contact: Friendly Visitor's Program of the Human Ser- vices Planning Council at: (518)-372-3395 and ask for Joyce. F f b •• G • a ~ ... u ., oo \.1.'\' u ... - ,_.J .. • Career Happen:ings Career LHe Planning Workshop Wednesday, October 28-7:00- 9:00 p.m.-Career Center-Take an active role in forming your future. This session is designed to increase students' knowledge and awareness of the ;l how, what, where, and when of career~life exploration. NOTE : Please sign up for all workshops IN ADVANCE. at the Career Center! Ct. '<6 There will be a meeting of the Dance Club Thursday, Oct. 22 at 7 p.m. in Stra,uss Lounge. Agenda for the meeting: 1. Tickets for Bob Fosse's Dancin' at Proctors' Theater ( $7) 2. Discussion of full credit liberal learning art department course in dance. Need input. 3. Jazz Workshop information (Workshop will start Nov. 7) Where does the camping trip end and the nightmare b • ? eg1n •••• DELIVERANCE Starring Burt Reynolds Oct. 23, 24, & 25 at 7, 9 & 11 in 55016 NOTICE TO ALL STUDENTS: All tickets for Film Committee Movies MUST be purchased at the Ticket Office in Carnegie Hall. No cash will be accepted at the door. To avoid long lines, please plan ahead and purchase your tickets in advance. The .,ticket office is open for ticket sales from 1 p.m. until 8 p.m. daily except on nights of movies when it will remain open until 11 .p.m. Thank you, Union College.Film Committee Complete line of CAPEllO DANSKIN lNG A Ouifits for the Dancer, Ice & Roller Skater Of Exerci.-r. :C:he @oslumer 444 State St .. , Sch\dv 374-7442 /

- . r IV r e d e t- s. st n- n. y, of 9 1. OONOORDIENSIS, October 23, 1981 Page 9 • Ices More Genieral· Nottice·s 1981. This will be en ThursCilay, October 22, 1981~3:45 p.m. in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. Maureen Ihrie, Assistant Professor of Modern Languages, will present a colloquium entitled,. \Don Quijote: The Product of Classical Skepticism'' on Tuesday, October 27, at 4:30 p.m. in SS 016. Caffee and Tea at 4:00p.m. All are welcome to attend. Mystic Seaport Program The pregram in American Maritime Studies, accredited by WHliams College and taught at the Mystic Seapert Museum in Mystic, Connecticut will present information to in- terested Union students at a meeting on Tuesday, November 17, at~ 1:30 p.m. Professor Benjamin Labaree, director of the program, will conduct an epen meeting in the Dean's Conference Room, in the Science and Engineering Building, S-100. Phi Beta Kappa offers Student Research Grants Alpha of New York Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Union College is again accepting applications for grants to assist student research during the academic year. The research should be part of a course, in- dependent study, or senior project undertaken at Union. In the past, students have used these awa,rds to purchase specialized laboratory equip- ment, acquire books and data not otherwise available on camp1:1s, and finance mailing or telephone expenses associated with their research. Applications should be ad- dressed to the President of Alpha Chapter, Prof. Ruth Anne Evans, Schaffer Library. Ceteris Paribus The Union College Economics Club: Ceteris Paribus . . . Presents the first \Food for Oq T~e Otller froqt Spanish Table Professors Diez-Herenda, Ihrie and Vinick cordially invite all Spanish-speaking members of the community to join them for lunch and conversation at 12:30 on Tuesday, October 27, in the Pub. All levels invited. Campus Protestant Fellowship Newman Club Jorge Lara-Braud, director of the Council on Theology and Culture of the Presbyterian Ghurch in the United States, wili be the guest of the Campus Protestant Fellowship and the Newman Club Sunday evening, October 25. The meeting will begin at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, and members of the campus community are invited to attend. Lara-Br.aud, founding director of the Hispanic- Ametican Institute of Austin, Texas, will discuss the chur- ches' role in the struggle for justice and freedom in Latin America. He is the author of Social Justice and the Latin Churches and Our Claim on the Future, books which explore the ethics of U.S.-Latin American relations. Minerva Committee On Thursday, October 22, at 7:30 in SS 016, the Department of Modern Languages and the Minerva Committee present part 3 of the Fall Hispanic Film Series: Summerskin, by Leopold Torre Nilsson. The plot concerns a young woman who is promised a year in Paris and an extravagant wardrobe if she acts as companion for a dying young man. Subtitles. Spring Break '82 After a cold winter in Schenectady, how does Florida sound? 7 days and 7 nights in Daytona Beach with students from Union and Skidmore Colleges, March 19-28, 1982. The price is $239 for round trip express transportation on a lavoratory equipped, air con- ditioned deluxe motorcoach, 7 nights at Quality Inn Reef (tax included). Deposit of $50 must be in to Mrs. Marra at Student Affairs by Dec. 4, 1981. (Includes $25 damage deposit). Capacity is 48 people; first come, first served basis. For more information call: Steve Brown at 370-U635 or Mrs. Marra at 370-6118. Company Interviews , Crouse Hinds l0-2i-81 New schedule for MBA's Only !§ggil'E~ Sheet Fairchild Sub Assembly Group-Latham will have an Orientation Sess1on on Tuesday, October 27 in 4th Floor Student Lovnge, Carnegie Hall from 7:00 - 9:00 PM. Please stop by the Placement Office and let us know if you are interested. Recruiting Date October 28, 1981. Portsmouth Shipbuilding will hold an ?rientation Session in the 4th Floor Student Lounge, Carnegie Hall, on Tuesday, November 3 from 7:00- 9:00 PM. They will be recruiting on November Sign-up are on October 19, at 11:30 AM. 0' Brien & Gere 11-11-81 C.E.'s & M.E.'s October 26, 1:1~ PM Donnelley Marketing 11-ll-81 C.S. Majors for November 3, 10:00 AM Programming and Software Engr. MPR Assgciates ll-12-81 C.E. 's, E. E., & M.E. 's November 3, 10:00 AM MPR Associates will hold Orientation Session in Strauss Lounge on November ll from 6:30 - 9:00 PM. Time Distribution ll-17-81 Any Major for November 2, 1:30PM Services COMING, NOVEMBER 7th The Social Committee Presents: ·Fall Fling with FAST FINGERS and Comedian PETER FOGEL at the Ramada Inn Ballroom So get your floor, friends and fraternity and come on down for a fun filled evening of music, dance and comedy. Tickets are $5.00 or $40.00 for a table of ten. On sale this Monday in Carnegie. Body and Thought.\ Thursday, Oct. 29 from 12:30 to 1:30 in the Banquet Room. Topic: We Saw China and Lived to Tell the Tale! Encompassing an in- formal lecture and discussion on the Chinese Economy and Society, with Prof. Bruce L. Reynolds, Dept. of Economics and China Specialist. The price is $2.00. 1981 Yearbook on sale at the Student Activity Office. The Philosophy Forum lunch table will meet Wednesday, October 28 in the Pub. All are welcome. Volunteers needed to visit homebound elderly for one hour per week. If interestd, please contact: Friendly Visitor's Program of the Human Ser- vices Planning Council at: (518)-372-3395 and ask for Joyce. Caree;r Happenin~g,s Career Life Planning Wor-kshop Wednesday, October 28-7 :00- 9:00 p.m.-Career Center-T'ake an active role in forming your future. This session is desigNed to increase students' kno~ledge and awareness of the ,now, what, where, and w,h.en of career-life exploration. ~OTE: Please sign up for all workshops IN ADVANCE: at the Career Center! There will be a meeting of the Dance Club Thursday, Oct. 22 at 7 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Agenda for the meeting: 1. Tickets for Bob Fosse's Dancin' at Proctors.' Theater ( $7) 2. Discussion of full credit I iberal learning .ad department course in dance. Need input. 3. Jazz Workshop information (Workshop will start Nov. 7) Where does tlte camping trip end and the night111are b \ ? eg1n •••• DELIVERANCE Starring Burt Reynolds Oct. 23, 24, & 25 at 7, 9 & 11 in 55016 NOTICE TO ALL STUDENTS: All tickets for Film Committee Movies MUST be purchased at the Ticket Office in Carnegie Hall. No cash will be accepted at the door. To avoid long lines, please plan ahead and purchase your tickets in advance. The ticket office is open for ticket sales from 1 p.m. until S p.m. daily except on nights of movies when it vvill remain open until 11 p.m. Thank y-ou, Union College Film Committee Complete line of CAPEllO DANSKIN lNG A Outfits for the Dancer, Ice & Roller Skater or berciser. Tie @oslumer 444 State St., Sch'dy 374-7442

Page 10 OONCOBDIENBIS, October !3, 1981 ... Q) .... C/1 ~ a: E ... 0 z >- ..0 0 0 ..c 0. ·: Pliotis with the.dribble Off to States ByJUDIESTE~ARDT The women's tennis team has a record of five wins, five losses; the best record of any women's sports team at Union College this fall. The team has defeated Hartwick, Colgate, Middlebury, RPI and Russell Sage. They have lost to Hamilton, Siena, Vassar, Skidmore and Albany State. They conquered Hartwick in their most recent game, Monday, October 19, with a team score of 5-2. The women's personal records of the season also look very good. Julie Miller, first singles, has a record of 5 wins, 4 losses; Rita Lindenburg, second singles, is 3 and 7; Karen Lena, third singles and first doubles, is 7 and 3; Randi Ribakove, fourth singles, is 5 and 5; Alissa Calabria, fifth singles and second doubles, is 7 and 2; Linda Esposito, first doubles, is 6 and 4; Liesel Golden, second doubles, is 2and 4; Debra Seiken, second doubles, is 1 and 2. Karen Lena has won all her doubles· games and Alissa Calabria claims victory to all of her singles games. The coach has picked six of her top players to go to the states, being held this weekend: Julie Miller, Rita Lindenburg, Randi Ribakove, Karen Lena, Alissa Calabria, and Linda Esposito. Based on their past records, there is no reason the . Dutchwomen shouldn't excel. Go to it, Dutchwomen! Upcoming Women's Sports Fl ELD HOCKEY: 10-23 Rochester 10-24 Wells 10-30 States TENNIS: 10-23 States VOLLEYBALL: 3:30 H 11 :00 H 10-24 N E lnvy Tourney 10-28 R. Sage & Albany 10-30 Queens C. Tourney CROSS COUNTRY: H 6:00 A 3:00 A 10-24 Capital District 10-30 Albany I nvy SOCCER: 10-22 RPI 10-26 Hartwick A 7:00 H 7:00 H X-C Ends Sixth By TRISH MORIARTY The women's cross country team finished sixth this . .past Saturday at the Hartwick Women's Invitational at Hart- wick College. The team was led by 15th place Inge Stockman, whose time was one of the top fifty for the course. Ten teams, from as far away ·as St<>ny Brook State on Long Island, also competed in the race. The course was far from pleasant. Several harriers fell on the occasionally steep and slippery course, including Union's third finisher, Joan O'Connor, and fifth finisher, Sherri Weitzen. Second and fourth for the Dutchwomen were Danielle Cernaik and Janice Glidden. Sue Stopera and Trish Moriarty were unable to compete in the event, but . hope to be back for the race. this Saturday. . On October 24th, the team will compete in the Capital District Championships at Central Park. Teams from RPI, Albany State, Siena, and Hudson Valley Community College should be present. The women at·e hoping for a very good showing on Saturday. Come over and watch! Prepare for GRE Dec. 12/Feb. 6 Exam TESTING REVIEW SERVICE 28 Brickley Dr., Albany NY 12205 (518) 447-5755 Socc,er ·Hosts RPf BY JUDIE STEINHARDT Union College's WOI!len's soccer team, the only women's club sport this fall, hosts R.P.I. tonight at 7 p.m. in their sixth game of the season. After this second game against R.P.I., the Dutchwomen have only one game remaining in the season. To. date, their record consists of 0 wins, 5 losses, including a loss to Siena this past MondAy. Their only goal of the season was made :by Dina Pliotis, in the first game against R.P.I. (October 17). The poor record is not a surprise; the soccer team is new, and only a small core of the women have played soccer before. Most of the teams they face are varsity . teams, while th~y are still a club sport. Coach Mary Gillespie in .. dicates that one of the disad- vantages of the team is that it does not represent Union as a whole. Many girls who are capable of playing soccer did not go out for the team, or else did not stay with U once they joined. The coach also says that there are four or five very good players on the team, and everyone shows much dedication. Sooner or later these attributes are bound to surge fortl;l, and make the team memorable. The girls are already good, and can easily look forward to a winning season in years to come. Spikers Split By CATHY GIFFORD This past week saw the Union women's volleyball squad split a pair of matches. On October 13, Union hosted Albany State, but the Great Danes walked away victorious, 16-14, 3-15, 6- 15,12-15. The momentum which was lacking against Albany came back in full force as Union travelled to LeMoyne (Division II) and handed them a loss (statistics Unavailable). \The team played very well, making great saves and just playing good volleyball,\ commented Coach Barta. \It was great to watch.\ Speaking of watching, what are you doing this Saturday? How about going up to the fieldhouse on Saturday and Sunday (October 24 and 25) and supporting defending champion Union College as , the Out- chwomen host the 1981 Nor- theast Invitational Tour- nament? This year's par- ticipants include Bryn Mawr, Pace, Wellesley, Williams, Vassar and Union. The matches willstart at 10 a.m. and will last until4:30 p.m. The squad hopes to balance losses to Pace, Williams, and Vassar suffered this season. The season is pulling together at last for the team, and this tournament .should be a good measure of Union's abilities. WOMEN'S SPORTS RESULTS Week Ending 10-19 Field Hockey: (Record: 2-7-2) Tennis: (Record: 4-5) Volleyball: (Record: 4-5) Cross-Country: Soccer: (Record: 0-4) 10-15 Union 2/ Skidmore 1 10-17 Union 3, Siena 2 10-19 Hartwick 3/ Union 1 l0-14 Union 6, RPI1 10-15 Skidmore 6, Union 1 10-17 Albany 5, Union 2 Union beat LeMoyne (no stats) ' ~ Union finished 6 out of 10 at the Hartwick lnvy 10-15 Hamilton 81 Union 0 10-17 RPI5/ Union 1 UNION COLLEGE. PUB RESTAURANT 5CHEN.E.CTADY, N.Y. (2.308 A Mid Term Break. Special_You Saturday Night 5 to 8 p.m. 8 Cut Pizza- and Pitcher of Soda or-~Beer $5.00 ( T cro Tre dev frm unf ser Arr whi D Dul RP witl \Si AH r- to Yo: for BoJ rec Da Go sid Ba me On tha sec COl chi me rer me nru Bu se:: thE An wil 1 uti Ulll sru cru h8' mi thE thE thE frc re1 Sb co Be to pr ffil - -

Cross Country Beaten The Union College men's cross country team traveled to Troy on Saturday only to be devastated by the Engineers from :RPI. The Dutchmen were unfortut:tately without the services of captain Ed Arnheiter who injured his foot whlle training. . Dave Dellehunt was the otlly Dutchman ·finisher to crack RPI's top. five; he placed third with a time of 26:46. Denny \Sid\ Contois completed the five--mile course in 27 :59 for a tenth place finish. Rounding out the scoring for Union were John Casale (2S:23), Mark Arienti (29:13), and Paul Palaszewski (29:22), placing eleventh, fif- teenth and ~ixteenth, respec- tively. Freshman Dave Barrett and junior John \Wiz\ Wisniewski had respective finishes of eighteenth and twentiethto capture the last two spots on the varsity squad . Freshmen Frank Schneider placed 26th and Doug Sherman took 27th finishing the Union effort. · Before the meet, John Wisniewski commented on the hilliness af the course, \I think we are ready for the hills; however, maybe we should have done the .Pine Bush run two or three more times.\ The Dutchmen will compete in the small school division of the IC4A' s this weekend. The meet will be held in Van Cortlandt Park, New York City. Union harrier Dennis Contois in action. ~-4 Athlete of the Week 0 .... 0 .c 0. ...: a:: Athlete of the week Peter Stegemann \O.T. I I By DAVE RUDEN Now that they have returned to the World Series, the New York Yankees will on display, for all to see. Not that the Bronx Bombers are in dire need of recognition. With talents like Dave Winfield and Goose Gossage, along with more sideshows than Barnwn and Bailey, the Yankees have gotten more than their share of the ink. One need not turn ~my farther than the front page of the sports section to read about Guidry's complete game or Graig pun- ching Reggie. However, one member of the Yankees remains foreign to an· but the most knowledgeable fan. His name is Larry Milbourne. When Bucky Dent was lost for the season, Milbourne brushed off the webs and donned his mitt. And he has provided the team with solid baseball ever since. The value of a good ~tilityman has . gone. virtually unnoticed in 'baseball. Only the shrewdest front office people can appreciate the luxury of having good players who don't mind gathering splinters until their tum comes. They don't see their names in bold print, but they can be just as vital as the front liners. Perhaps no man realizes this more than George Steinbrenner. That is why he collects Lou Piniellas and Bobby Murcers for his manager to call on. It is an expensive practice, but the ends jllStify the means. Until Dent's injury, Mil- bourne's main job was as a pinchrunner or as an occasional starter when Dent or Willie Randolph needed a day off. With tbe injury to Dent, Milbourne was given the op- portunity to prove what he could do on a daily basis. What he has proven is that Larry Milbourne can start il'l the major leagues. ·After leaving the bench, Milbourne hit over .300, while providing the team with solid defense up the middle. This clutch play continued into the playoffs where he was a major contributor in the team's vic- tories over Milwaukee and Oakland (at one time be was 9- 13 hitting against the A's). Batting second behind Jerry Mumphrey, the two got on base consistently so the Winfields, Jacksons and Nettles's could drive them home. The role of utilityman isn't new for Milbourne. This is the role he usually p}ayed for the Seattle Mariners and Houston Astros; his two stops before New York. Another asset is his attitude. While most would complain about not starting, Milbou1.\ne sits quietly and waits. He prefers to let his bat and glove do the talking. Perhaps the most frustrating aspect is the fact that no matter how well he plays, Milbourne knows that he will have to return to the bench next year when Dent returns. But on a team with too many egos he will not complain. He knows his time will come. By MICHAEL SHARP This week's Miller Athlete of the Week. honors go to Peter Stegemann, a rookie wing for the Union College varsity soccer team. Peter earned his honors with an outstanding performance in the 4-0 Dut- chman victory over RPI on October 17th. During the game, which was only his second · varsity ap- pearance, Peter scored tht·ee goals and made one assist. A major factor in his phenomenal pffensive production was his speed and his heads-up style of The Hot Line play. For his first goal he sped downfield and solidly heat the defense and for his other two goals he fired the ball at unexpected moments, once while lying on the ground, and the other time when he jtm1ped on a wide shot. Peter was somewhat sur~ prised about his perfoi'Illance and after the game he felt like he was ''coming out of a dream.\ lfe felt that the team played well and he was at the right place at the right time. He's extremely\ excited about the team and he feels that the Fast ... Free Delivery Call us! 372-4441 127 Nott Terrace Hours 4 30 · 1 ·oo Sun · fhurs 4 30 · 2 00 Fr, & Sat All Pi:z:zas Include Our Special Blend of Sauce and Real Cheese Domino's Deluxe 5 .tems for the pnce of 4 .Pepperom. Mushrooms Onons. Green Peppers and Sausage 12 Deluxe 6.84 16. Deluxe 10.19 The Veg1' 5 •tems tor the pnce ol 4 Mushrooms. Olives. On•ons. Green Peppers and 0 ouble Cheese 12 veg• 6.84 16 veg• 10.19 Additional Items m Pepperom. Mushrooms. Ham. On•ons. Anchov•es. Green Peppers. Ol•ves, SauSage. Ground Beef Hot Peppers, Double Cheese. Extra Th•ck Crust 12\ PIZZa Item .75 16\ PIZZa 1tem L 15 Pnces do not mclude apphcable sales tax.. We use only 1 00'11> real aalry cheese. -!-1981 Oom,nosPotlB II>( AI Oommo's Ptzza we promtse a hot. nutntlous meal d'hvere<J tn 30 mrnutes or less Your PIZZa tS made With 100'\t! real da~ry cheese. our own spet1a1 sauce. and your chorea of •tems Then we delaver 11 fast-at no extra charge Gwe us a call we deh\ler 1 You can help us serve you and others faster tf you follow these s1rnple steps \/When order1ng your P•zza 1 Know what you want before ordeung.(s•ze of pru:a. quanhty. whal you want on •t. any dnnksl 2 Know the phone n\Jm· ber and address at the res•dence !rom wh •Ch you are ca!hng 3 When plac•ng an order let us know rf YO\.J have large denom•nahon bills 4 Rema1n by the phone after ordenng We may call back to conf1rm lhe order - 5 Turnonyourporchhghl 6 Pnce that ts Quoted on the phone •ncludes sales tax but does not 1nclude the subtracbon.of the coupon The drwer will subtract •t when the delivery 1s made 7 Have your cot~pon al1d money w1th you when the dnver amves. Thanks for follow1ng these directions. Our dnvers carry less lhan $tO 00 L1m1ted delivery area Dutchman hooters have vast potential. Peter hails from Rochester, N.Y. where he attended Brighton High School. He's no newcomer to athletic honors; in his senior year of high school he was named first team all- county for soccer and he qualified for the state track meet in the triple jump. He played ,varsity . soccer for two years and ran varsity track for four years. Peter, in his freshman year at :Union, is leaning towards science or engineering as possible majors. r·-·-··-···-·-···-···-·~ F _.,ee Free Pepperono wolh any 1 ' 12\ small przza Peppe ~on 1 ., One coupon per pozza •' • Expires 11-29-81 II Fao~ F,.. Delivery 1 27 Nott Terrace Phone: 372-4441 1S470t3:JOA I I I L--·······•····-·-·-···J r•••a••·-~-------------~ I I I I J a I I I I I I I I $1 DO oH any p1zza · One coupon per ptzza Expires 11·29·81 Faa~ Free Delivery 1 27 Nott Terrace · Phone 372-4441 I I L--·-··········-·-·-·-·J· r·---------~------·----, F Ext On any PIZZa fee ra One coupon per o,zza · ThiCk Expires 11·29-81 C t Fast. Free Delivery rus 127 Nott Terrace Phone: 372-4441 154!013304 L•-•••n•••-••••••••••••J

Page 12 OONCOBDIEN818 1 October 88, 1981 F-ootball Defeats R.P.I. This past weekend the Union College football team traveled across the Capital District to battle the Engine~rs of R.P.I. This game, unlike others, had more at stake than merely a win or loss. The winner of this contest gains possession of the coveted Wooden Shoes. This game marked the 79th time these two teams have met in New York State's oldest college football rivalry. The afternoon turned out pleasantly both for the spec- tators and for the Dutchmen. On a beautiful fall day Union clearly outhit, outran, outpassed and overall just outplayed their arch-rivals. It was clear to everyone in the stands that Union was the dominant force throughout the whole game. Union now holds the Dutchman Shoes Trophy and the bragging rights of -the Capital District after the decisive victories over R.P.I. and Albany State. 36 before a fumble thwarted the drive. An R.P.I. holding call once again gavec Union good field .position on their own 45. Fifty-five yards later, JQhn \J .J.\ Johnson ran in from the eight for Union's first score. Johnson did the bulk of the work during this drive and ended the day with 126 yards in 30 carries. R.P.I. threatened but once in the first half, with a long drive which ended deep in Union territory with a blocked field goal. Throughout the fir-st half the Dutchmen were able to hold down R.P.l.'s running attack led by elusive quarterback Gary LaDuca. LaDuca finished the day with six completions in 29 attempts, as the Union defense was all over him. Late in the second quarter Union made it a two touchdown game when Harris hit tight end Rich Kelleher with a 47- yard bomb. Harris rolled out to the left and threw a perfect strike to a streaking Kelleher, who had soundly beaten cor- nerback Joe Zotto. McKelvey booted his second point-after and Union went into the lockerroom comfortably ahead, 14-0. change of punts R.P.I. had good .field position on the Union 47. Don Patria car:ried twice for 26 yards and it looked as though the game might end in a dogfight. However, on third down LaDuca faded back to pass, defensive ~nd Brian Cox tipped the attempt~d pass and strong safety Tim Wade made a brHliant interception, his second of the day. Six minutes later, the Dutchman offense put it o.ut of reach with a 13-yard Harris to Frederick touchdown pass. The big play in the drive was a 37-yard completion from Harris to Kevin Gibbons. The Dutchman defense held fast the rest of the game throwing R.P.I. back three times when they ventured into Union. territory. The win was a big one, coming off last week's 10-3 setback to Colby. The victory lifted Union's record to 3-1-1 on the season and gave the Union squad valuable momentum going into a tough gal.lle against Trinity College (3-1) in Hartford, Conn. The next home game is against Williams College in two weeks. Come cheer on the Dutchmen in their quest for their first win- ning season since 1970. False advertising at R.P-.1. 0 - 0 .£:. a. ...,: 0:: The shoes rode back to Schenectady on the wings of Union's well-conceived and equally well-executed game plan. Two big plays by fresh- man QB Roger Harris and a whole flock of big plays by Union's tenacious defense paced the team. The Garnet offense was able to march quite easily on their first possession. Led by QBDan·Stewart, Union drove from their 26 to the R.P.I. R.P .I. came out fired up in the -third quarter and quickly made it a 14-7 game on a LaDu~a to Wayne Bruhn hook up which gained 33 yards and their first score of the day. After an ex- Soccer Finds Scoring Touch Sports Happenings Oct. 22-29 Varsity Football J.V. Football Varsity Soccer J.V. Soccer Cross Country Oct. 24 at Trinity Oct. 26 Williams 3:00 Oct. 24 Plattsburgh2:00 Oct. 28 Oneonta 7:00 Oct. 23 at Siena Oct. 24 Capital Dist. Meet 1- en iUNION~ V'J This Week's Concordy Pick: TRINITY . . . ~ . . . Union 0 0 .c 0. ~ o2 The Union soccer team finally developed a scoring punch last week. The Dutchman Booters outscored their opponents .8-1 while raising their record to 4-2- 2. Union's record now moves the Booters into the mainstream of NCAA compatition. The hottest Dutchman of the week was freshman ''Athlete of the Week\ Peter Stegeman. Stegeman scored the three goal \hat-trick\ .against RPI on Saturday. Andy Dreher added two goals on Wednesday as the Booters handled' Siena 4-1. On Wednesday, the Dutchmen jumped all over Siena. Dreher scored his two goals just minutes away from each other ten minutes into the match and from then on the squad just cruised horne to victory. Hans Bukow added the third goal with 34:17 left in the game. Bukow unloaded a rocket from 20 yards Brian Shea toys with his opponent out that easily beat the Siena . goalie to the top corner. Evan Krinick put the finishing touches on the win with a goal halfway through the final half. Indeed, Union dominated the play but the Siena squad was still able to gather thirteen shots on junior transfer ·goalie Ric Russell. Russell performed well on Wednesday, playing confidently in the goal, collecting his first win. Unfortunately, the Dutchman defense had a lapse in the second half and allowed Siena to mar Russell's shutout. Pete Cholakis played exceptionally on defense totally frustrating the Siena offense. On Saturday, the Dutchmen travelled to RPI where they manhandled the Eng!neers, 4-0. Union gained an early edge in the game as Stegen1an s~ored his .first goal with 3: 15 gone. Junior Dreher sent a long ball to Stegeman who was breaking towards the RPI goal. Stegeman used his body to shield the ball from the RPI fullback then alertly turned and beat Ed Ivanov with a strong right foot shot from 15 yards out. Stegeman got his second goal with 34:04 left in the second half. At that time Stegeman brokin in from the right side, eventually colliding with Ivanov. With both players in pursuit of the ball, Stegeman outhustled Ivanov and even- • tually kicked the ball into the RPI net while lying on his. side on the ground. \It was a great display of determination,\ said Coach Magee. With 15:15 left in the match, freshman Stegeman completed his hat trick. Freshman Istvan 'l'amoga released a wide angle shot that just slid by the RPI netminder and onto Stegeman's foot. Stegeman raced in from the right side to beat Ivanov and to complete the trick. Tim Ager completed the Union scoring with 7:27 left. .Ager skillfully dribbled past the · RPI defense then cut and shot, beating Ivanov on the short side. It was Ager's second goal of the year. RPI coach Al Goodyear had nothing but praise for the Union sq11ad. \They beat us to every ball and completely shut our defense down.\ Magee was obviously very happy with the win, saying, \The team played well, we're starting to look for each other now. Pete Cholakis played a super game and Stegeman did just what we wanted him to do.\ Senior goalie George Romas recorded his fourth shutout of the year. Ht:: is now only three away from breaking Union's. sh11tout record . This week Union plays highly ranked Plattsburgh on Satur- day. The game is at home so come on out and support the Union soccer team. • c ..

0 - 0 s::. 0. r: ~ CXI, No. 6 October 29, 1981 S r' Budget Complaints Aired i~ \; 0 -<! C) -; GJ 0 ...... <..0 co By PAUL GROSSMAN -'·\\\' ... the Finance Committee ~~it. Like Daniel walking into 's den, the Finance GStJ/Irntitt~~e seated themselves of a disgruntled mob of dent organization - 1.-?ivi\Dresentati·V\es to discuss the Pe·ter McCaffrey, Student Forum Vice President for Finances s budgeting. Vice President for Finance Pete McCaffrey and the rest of the Finance Committee had one major point to make: that clubs and organizations can come back and ask for additional Alumni Aid Placement :By EDWARD ALBRO .. At the Career Placement Center, a busy recruiting and placement season has already begun. Mrs. Betty Goodman, director of the Center, reported this week that while technical recruiting at the College is quite busy, the placement staff is attempting to increase the opportunities presented to liberal arts majors. In discussing liberal arts placement, Mrs. Goodman stressed that majors had to realize that because of the volume of unsolicited requests institutions received from such graduates, these institutions would be very unlikely to spend the money and time involved in active recruiting. However, this fact of life does not indicate that the Placement Center cannot be of service to the liberal arts major. program in which alumni host interested students in a tour of their workplace and explaiR the responsibilities imrolved in their j.ob. To Mrs. Goodman's dismay, however, this program, along with many of the alumni workshops, has received a very disappointin:g response. The Center's staff also makes it a P.olicy to discuss openings for liberal arts with all recruiters, including those • recruiting for engineers. Finally, Mrs. Goodman pointed out tqat corporations were chosen for the Careerfest who expressed an interest in liberal arts majors as well as technical graduates. In giving more general advice for anyone looking for el11r ployment, Mrs. Goodman stressed that, \students have got to wake up to the fact that vice for seniors. \For liberal arts,\ she said, \It's a growth pattern-the liberal arts major becomes more valuable with the experience he gains after leaving school.\ For engineers, the director stressed that salary is not the most important factor; research has shown that employees found job challenge and geographical location to be the most important factors in overall job satisfaction, and seniors should give weight to these in choosing a position. Throughout the interview, Mrs. Goodman stressed that students should always keep in touch with the Center for help and advice. She praised career counselors Pat Matteo and Jane Wood and secretary Mary Rodman, and was confident of their ability to help all students. Finally, Mrs. Goodman ex- pressed pride in the College's students, saying that the in- creasing recruiting schedule is proof of the quality of the College's graduates. funding with money that has been set aside for specifically that purpose. Finance Committee member Joe Laurin said, \We took a hard line with everybody So that no group would suffer because of what we gave another group.\ The primary reason for the large cuts was that money was not justified in the budget proposals. It was stressed that the Finance Committee does not view any further requests as a \second budget,\ but rather, that additional funds would be given in the event that some point was overlooked or tb.at an unforeseen expense emerges. Many group representatives questionedthe Committee's use of former budgets to allocate funds for this year. The Com- mittee responded with an ex- planation of their procedure of zero-base budgeting, whereby all clubs start off with no money are are approved funding item by item. Using budgets from past years, said the Committee, would make it too easy to pad a budget or to let an unnecessary expense continue year after year. Barton Levine of the Finance Committee stated categorically, ''there are no groups with fat on them this year.\ Greg Grant, of the Black and Latin Alliance of Students (B.L.A.S.) remarked that there was a lack of corrununication between his organization and the Finance Committee. The Finance Committee agreed, but claimed that . it was not their fault. Some confusion existed over the amount of money available to groups who request ad- ditional funds. McCaffrey ex- plained that the $21,000 in the conting.ency fund is not the money to be used in the emergency fund. The $21,000, McCaffrey explained, is money that is specifically intended for use by the groups that they expect will be needing the money and can \justify\ the funding. Many group representatives still disagreed with things that the Finance Committee did, but at the end of the meeting, there seemed to be at least a better understanding between both the Finance Committee and the groups that it recommends funding for. Parking Violations: Citations Rise By REGINA GOUGII Although only five weeks into the school year, 1,400 parking tickets have been issued already here on campus. · The original intent of the parking regulations was to free fire lanes for emergency vehicles, to protect pedestrians, and to provide parking spaces for visitors. Campus Security wastes valuable time ticketing illegally parked cars. Accor- ·ding to Christopher Chadwick, Administrative Sergeant, that time could be better spent on ContiiJ.ued on page 9 The primary area in which the office is attempting to in- crease opportunities in the formation of an alumni network of information and aid. Mrs. Goodman stressed that the Center's \greatest resource is in its alumni\ and stated the need for more staff in order to 'Organize alumni relations. One on-going program in this area is the publication of an alumni placement newsletter which informs alumni already in the work force of' job opportunities which require experience. It is hoped that in this way lines of communication between the Placement Center and alumni will be established and the alumni with access to in- formation of upcoming job openings will contact Union first. In addition, the Center offers a career observation · they have to get in here and help themselves. Our prime drive is to help the student- who needs help to help himself.\ The Placement Center offers a resource library, alumni listings, interview and resume writing workshops, and a very capable staff. It is the responsibility of each student to put personal effort into the process of finding a job; tpe director said. \Everyone has a niche, and you must be curious about the work world.\ Hardware is Purchased Students are encouraged to come to the Placement Center as freshmen to investigate what different job possibilities are · about and to discuss plans for summer employment. \If we could get to students in their first two years, many of their personal problems (in looking for employment) would be eliminated,\ Mrs. Goodman said. She also had special ad;. Betty Goodman, Director of Career Placement By D.C. OWENS The College Computer Center's computer is being upgraded. At present, the Burroughs B6805 computer has the following features ac- cording to Computer Center documents: The computer possesses a planar core memory (20 mods of cor~ at 16,384 words per mod) totalling 327,680 words; or 1.9 million 8- bit bytes. This is augmented by six disc drive units. of 175 megabytes per drive unit. Mr. Marc Zehngut, the Acting Manager of Information Systems and Computer Ser- vices, was interviewed about the change. Mr. Zehngi.lt, a graduate student of Computer Science, talked about the new equipment for the Burroughs machine and of future plans to improve computer facilities at Union. During the interview, Mr. Zehngut said that ad- ditional capacity is due any day now from Burroughs and the cost will be approximately $100,000. At press time, the equipment had not arrived. It was reported at the annual Trustees meeting that the departments of JAM, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Economics, Chemistry and Physics each had contributed $20,000 to the Computer Cen- ter's maintenance and im- Continued on page 2. Stacey Leaves Last week, Officer Steven Stacey completed his last shift for the Union College Security Department. Stacey was \in- famous\ among many students who were often critical of his \attitude\ toward them. During his time of service here at Union, Stacey's superiors were pleased with his performance although they did acknowledge occasional friction between Stacey and some students. Security withheld any an- nouncement of Stacey's departure, apparently an- ticipating the possibility of some students trying t() \get even\ with the unpopular of- ficer before he left. There were no such incidents. Last spring, Stacey at- tempted to find a position elsewhere at the College, but found that no openings were 'to be had. Chief of Security Cliff Wood cited at that time·, Stacey's need to support a wife and children, and the fact that he held down an additional job as reasons for his remaining here these past months. Many colleagues were friendly with Stacey; one said that Stacey only ran into trouble when he was in contact with studentws. Stacey was suspended for a short time last spring, but was commended for his actions involving a suspected student break-in of the Psychology Building a few weeks later. The Security Department would not release any in- formation regarding Officer Stacey's departure. Mr. Wood was not available to answer questions, artd Administrative Sergeant Chris Chadwick had no comment.

Page 2. OONOORDIENSIS, October B9, 1981 Studertt Forum: Business as Usual Student Forum's weekly meeting began last Monday as they all do, 11Vith the approval of minutes and'teommittee reports. Of particul~r interest in the committee: reports was t'he statement 'fr-Gm IFC President Dan Logue that the charity party last Saturday night raised $800 for eha:rity. Citing that it was the .firs;t time out for the IFC in sucn a venture, Logue was pleased. with the success, and noted tllat the Greek Week organizers 'kEpt a log book with the hopes :that the IFC will continue toe tradition .of Greek Week. The report: from the Student Affairs Conunittee (SAC) held some imp~rtant points. They are still awaiting a review of the revised p& rty policy from Security. 'lb.ey are examining the state ~overnment rules regarding hazing, paying particular interest to the references ,Jnade in the student handbook. The SAC also reported that the Conduct Committee \Will appear before them to rf equest subpoena power to call students to testify in cases ri)rollgh before the conduct committee. The meeting is open and will be held Thursday at 1:30 in conference room A in Carnegie Hall. The next item on the agenda was consideration of budget recommendations from the finance for the Pre--Law Society and the Scuba Club. Money for the Pre--Law Society was ap- proved. The money is to be used to have speakers discuss topics of interest to the members of the club. The Scuba Club's funding proposal was denied by the Formn. There was objection to the amount of money requested. Both Scuba Club representative Dwight Pakan and Vice President McCaffrey (finance) noted that the reason for the relatively large amount of funding recommended was due to the large start-up costs for the club. These start-up costs amounted to $2,300 to purchase equipment. Last year, the Scuba Club, on the suggestion of the Finance Committee, rented equipment as needed. Both the 'Finance Committee and Mr. Pakan agreed, however, that purchasing the equipment would be cheaper in the long run. · Cuts Increase WAS~(:;TON, D.C. (CH)- Students Vitl.o are complaining about fed.eral aid cuts this year ain't seen n<>thin' yet. A major opponent to the funding was Senior Student Trustee Will Lloyd. Lloyd said~ \I personally don't think that we should be funding equipment for specialized clubs like the , Scuba Club.\ Senior Rep. Bob Pavacic felt that the Scuba Club should be funded, but not to the extent recommended by the Finance Committee. ''I don't think that I would support anything more than $1,000,\ Pavacic said. Pakan suggested that the Scuba Club was getting treated unfairly by the Forum, alluding to the close scrutiny that ~~s budget is being put under by toe Forum. lloyd replied, \Yes I guess you are getting a little unfair treatment!' Discussion of the issue was ended with the suggestion by Vice President McCaffrey that Forum mem- bers attend the next Finance Committee meeting. Ken Altman, .representative from Mountebanks, asked President Turner about their request for Stage Two. Turner explained that when Old Chapel was converted into a dining area, Stage Two was needed as a classroom. Former Dean of Students Robert Kellett then appropriated the room (it was not being used then by Moun- tebanks) to be used as a classroom. As a classroom, Vice President for Academic Affairs D; Andrea now has control of its use. Turner ex- plained to Altman that D'Andrea gave Mountebanks use of the Foom as long as no structural changes would be made and that classes have scheduling priority. Turner suggested that 'Altman ap- proach the Vice President for more information. I Positions Filled (CNB) Leatrice Mendelsohn of New' York City has joined the Uniori.__ College faculty as an assistant professor in the arts. Most recently, Mendelsohn was administrative assistant to • photographer Hans Namuth at New York's Museum at Large. She ,fs also a fonner assistant professor at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, where she tau~ht courses in art history and the visual arts. A 1957 graduate of Vassar College, Mendelsohn received a master's degree and ,a doc- torate from the New York University Institute of Fine Arts. Her major field of con- centration was 14th to 17th century Italian art, and she was awarded an Institute of Fine Arts Fellowship for study in Italy in 1973. She also received a. Ford Foundation Fellowship for graduate study at the Bank Street College of Education in New York. Mendelsohn's doctoral dissertation, \Benedetto Varchi's Due Lezzioni: Paragoni and Cinque-cento art theory,\ will be published this fall by U .M.I. Researcn Press, Ann Arbor, Mich. - Yazici named Visiting Professor SCHENECTADY, NY-Altan Yazici of Schenectady has been nametJ a visiting instructor of administration and management at Union College. Yazici has been a lecturer in Union's . Institute of Administration and Management since 1977. A graduate of the Middle East Technical University in Ankara, Turkey, Yazici holds masterps degrees from Syracuse University and from Union, where he is ctnrently working on a doctorate in ad- ministrative and engineering systems .. Before coming to Union as a student in 1975, Yazici was cootdinator of a systems analysis training program for the Turkish Ministry of Finance at the Middle East Technical University. Paige appointed Di'reetor of Custodial Services SCHENECTADY, NY- George P. Paige of Troy, for- mer operations manager for DJK Cleaning, Albany, has been appointed director of custodial services at Union College. A graduate of Troy and Cohoes public schools, Paige has taken courses in labor relations and business through Cornell University. He is a U.S. Army veteran. From 1952 to 1971, Paige was employed by Commodore Cleaners, Troy, where he supervised cleaning crews - in the plant and on location. For DJK Cleaning he was respon- sible for training, inventory and , production control, and . field inspections of the P.roperties being maintained. He has also been a dock supervisor for the . Grand Union Company in Waterford. At Union, Pa,ige will super- vise a staff of 47 persons respcmsible for all custodial services in the more than 40 buildings on the College . grounds. To stay ~ithin the Reagan Administr.ation budget, the Education. Department is recommending drastic reductiotlsirl eligibility for Pell Grants, , the primary aid program br needy students. ED prop.oses lowering the in- come cutoff level for a family of four to $l5,8i0, wen below the 1981-82 lev~] of $28,418. In ad- dition, ED would increase the assessment: rate on discretionar-y income (money not spent on ba~;ic needs) so that between 4(),J>ercent to 55 percent of such frunily income would be consideredapplicable to college costs. For rlllis school year, the assessment; rate on discretionary income is 10.5 percent. ED has offered an alternative to such cuts - a change in Pell Grant legislation by Congress that would effectively wipe out the liberalized eligibility requirements established by the , 1980 Education Amendments. Under those changes, a family of four could earn Up to $27,054 and still qualify for Pell Grant assistance, and the expected family contribution would be between 11 percent and 25 percent of discretionary in· come. The method of cuts will be chosen by the Congress, which must keep the Pell Grant program within a spending limit for the first time. Both ED proposals protect the neediest students while eliminating or greatly reducing the size of grants to students from less needy homes. Scholarships Offered Now is the time for students to apply for new scholarship and grant programs available through private sources, ac- cording to The Scholarship Bank. Computer Additions • • • Continued II\'oDl. page 1 provernent. An additi<Jnal 1.2 megabytes of core rne!Ilory will bring that feature llp,t«l well over 3,000,000 bytes of rnernory. Two new disc drive units will increase disc storage c:apability to about 11-3 million bytes. The purpose of the addetl rnemory is to facilitate- rtbe use of CANDE (Command .and Edit Language) by provi!ling faster time sharing for all llSers. The added disc drive ~ill also mean more \on line'' (quickly available files) than previously. The Burroughs machine is generally used in the batch mode rather than as a time sharing srstem. When time sharing is used on the Burrougbsrnachine, both batch and time sharing users need some <lf tbe same memory and processingl)arts andtend to get in each lQt~er's way. After the new equip:m.ent is installed, users will see \a noticable differenee iJ1 response time,\ predicted ~bngut. The Bur._-oughs computer is not the most efficient machine for time sharing. A long range planning study r~ommended relieving sGne of the loan on the Burroughs by obtaining a minicomputer. At the monent, few details are available, but Zehngut cl>mmented that the lease or purchase of a minicomputer within twelve to eighteen months is being seriously contemplated. No information as to brand name or other specifics was for- thcoming, but there was mention that the new system could handle 30 to 40 terminals for time sharing purposes. The Burroughs would con- tinue to be used as a batch mode machine for administration chores, SPSS (statistical package), and research that requires the large memory and storage capacity of the main- frame machine. The minicomputer would be used by students of all levels in the performance of required course work as well as by the faculty for jobs where the time share mode is more convenient. University of Rochester . Graduate School of Management Degree Programs Include M.B.A. with Concentrations in Accounting-Corporate Accounting-Public Applied Economics Computers & Information Systems Finance Marketing Operations Management A .representative from th. e Graduate School of Manage- ment' will be here November 5 Ph.D. in Business Aflministration Core Areas Applied Economics Quantitative Methods Majors and Minors Accounting Applied Economics Compute;s & Information Systems Finance l.ndustrial Organization & Public Economics Macroeconomics Marketing · Operations Management Operations Research CotJt~ct: The Career Sef'\lic;es and Placement CetJter or John G. Baker Asst. Dean & Dir. of Admissions GSM, University of Rochester Rochester, NY 14627 (716) 275-3533 The Graduate School of Management is a member.of the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management. Director Steve Danz an- nounced today that several new programs were accepting applications for th~ 1981-82 school year. Among· the new programs: . BPW Founda1lon: Offers financial aid for the ''non traditional female student\ in any field. A number of the available scholarships are for older students who have been out of school for a number of years. Exceptional Student Fellowships: This nationwide undergraduate scholarship program offers aid in ac· counting, pre-law, rnath, engineering, computer sciences and business-related fields. The donor has also indicated a number of summer job op- portllilities. According to the director, the new limitations on federally- funded financial aid make it mandatory for students in- terested in private funding to apply early. The Scholarship Bank specializes in notifying ~students via a personalized print-out of the private, off- campus and non-governmental financing sources available. There is a modest fee for the service. Students desiring further information and a questionnaire to key into the data bank of over 25,000 sources should send a stamped, self- addressed envelope to: Scholarship Bank,· 10100 Santa Monica Blvd., No. 750, Los Angeles, CA 90067. UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS . M.B.A. Students of All Maior~ and Fields Invited Come to our meetings to hear about our MBA and PhD Programs and to ask any questions about the curriculum, admission, finan·cial aid and career opportunities available in the foUowing fields of management: Finance Health Administration Economics Public and Nor.iProfit Marketing Human Resources Accounting Management Science General Management Policy - Thursday; November 5 Contact Plac:ernent & Career Counseling for sign • ups. 0 c: 10 \3 l5 .... ell c f1J ...., >- .0 0 ..... 0 .c 0. M. B J. cb m fi1 S< P1 fi1 co at A] sh P1 h(] ar th \1 co ' St fit F: ar N4 m a< OJ: in a~ T1 Sc ur it: P1 th th SIJ

1ii c t1l ....., >- .0 0 ..... 0 .s:: a. OONOORDIENSIS, October 29, 1981 Page 3 l Anti-Apartheid Movemen,ts: Prot_ests More Militant Martha Huggins, Sociology Chairperson Being Gay: Alternate Lifestyles Martha Huggins, this year's chair of the Sociology Depart- ment, will be sponsoring two films on gay life, as part of her Social Deviance course. Professor Huggins chose the films in order to give the community ''a chance to learn about how other people live.\ Although the fibns are being shown for the Deviance course, Prof. -Huggins feels that homosexuality and lesbianism are incorrectly categorized and that the term \deviance\ is an ''unfortunate label for the course.\ ' 'The films will be shown in Strauss Lounge at 9:00 p.m. The first is titled \Witches and Faggots--Dykes and Poofters,\ and is scheduled for Tuestfay, November 3. This is a forty-five minute color documentary account of lesbian and gay oppression, focusing on recent incidents of police brutality against Australian activists. This fibn, set in Sydney, New South Wales, has· been universally acc~pted because of its international value. Professor Huggins -commented that one of the strong points of the film is in its applicability to specifically the inhabitants .of Australia and tile homosexual population in general. Sydney could be .any city in the United States. · On Tuesday, November 10, a sixty-five minute sound film- strip, \Straight Talk About Lesbians\ will be shown. This film, an exploration of lesbian lifestyles, originates from Boston and is used by colleges such as Harvard and Tufts, as well as by public libraries, religious organizations; and consciousness-r-aising groups~ Discussion will follow both of the films. AlSo sponsoring the films will ·be the Woman's Network and the Gay Discussion Group. They feel that raising the con- sciousness of the campus is very important. \Alternate lifestyles affect us all,\ a woman from the Network said. Both groups hope these .films will help to dispel miscon- ceptions, and to raise the un- derstanding of the culture. Prof. H:uggins added that an awareness of lifestyle dif- ferences through films gives \firsthand experience of how others experience being American.\ StagraniS SEAGRAMDISTilt~RS CO, NYC AMERICAri'MliSKEY·A OLEfiO 80 ~ROOF HvH j\' ·~[ • _P •!! •qMr .. unr<o;oi\><E s£,!~ _P£01J~·~· Cl QO• (CPS)-More than 125 student leaders of anti-apartheid efforts on nearly 50 campuses, meeting in New York in the wake of militant college protests against tourj.ng South African rugby and choir groups, have decided to harden their tactics and try to hook up with other protest groups, like anti-nuclear activists. Until recently, mest campus efforts against apartheid -- the system of racial segregation practiced in South Africa- have been aimed at convincing college trustees to sell.off stocks in companies that do business in South Africa. But at the New York con- ference, co-sponsored by the American Committee on Africa and the Hunter College student government, a number of delegates said they were dissatisfied with the anti- apartheid movement's em- phasis on stock divestiture. \What we're about is not only divestment, but suppQrting a total liberation movement in southern Africa, and also making changes in this coun-. try,\ explains J osua Nessen, student coordinator for the American Committee on Africa (ACOA). \Too many schools got in- volved in the mechanics ·Of divestment when they could be spending time and money on other issues as well,\ he adds. \It's not a matter of just one issue,\ asserts Howard• Hawkins, a Dartmough anti- apartheid activist. \The system is the problem.'• Chris Root, a student at American University, ad- vocated a similar approach. \We have to be doing some yelling and some screaming.'' The conference came on the heels of a series of \yelling and screaming\ protests against the U.S. tour of the Springboks, the South African national rugby team. Political and legal: pressures - - including a threatPned in- ternational boycott of the 1984 Swnmer Olympic Games in Los Angeles -· cut short the Springboks' tour. Protests forced one game from Chicago ·to a \secret\ site at Racine, Wisconsin, where two of 500 protesters were arrested. A court order ultimately enabled the team to play a second game in Albany, N.Y., where it was greeted by some 2,000 protestors. In the threng was a delegation of some 300 State University of New York at Albany students. 'They chanted for the removal of Albany Mayor Erastus Corning, who originally okayed the game. Four demonstrators -including a Harvard student - were eventually arrested. A similar fate awaited a South African :boys' choir tour, arranged, acc()rding to Kenneth Zinn of the Wash.ington Office ·on Africa, as \just another attempt to ~ive apartheid a human face.\ Zinn organized a group of 25 black children to meet the choir in Washington, D.C. recently. As the choir began to sing a noontime public concert, Zinn had his group of 25 walk up to the choir, face the crowd, and sing, \Children in South Africa are dying, not singing.\ The South Africans - called the Drakensberg Boys Choir - were barred from playing at the University of Georgia the next week, when two black student groups asked the campus union to cancel the concert. The union agreed to cancel it. In the past, th.e movement's direct confrontations have been limited to facing down campus administrators in efforts to convince them t() rid their college portfolios .of stocks in companies that do business in South Africa. By and large, however, protestors have used less militant kinds. of pressures to force financial action. Greek Week A Success Union College's First Annual Greek Week has ended and was a big success. Tb.e IFC and all its members would like to thank all the fraternities and the campus community for their participation which helped to make Greek Week .an event that benefitted the entire campus. The double band party in Alumni Gym on Saturday night raised $800 which will be donated to the WGY Children's Christmas Fund. In athletic events, Chi Psi was the overall winner. In volleyball, Theta Delta Chi took first honors wbile Chi Psi took second. In the ~ug of War it was Delta Upsilon first and Chi Psi Dan Logue, I. F .C. President again second. The Boat Races, after some initial confusion and some false starts, went well with Chi Psi edging out a strong Beta team, · and Delta Chi taking third. The IFC would like to thank Miller Brewing Company for its help in the organization . of Greek Week and for providing the trophies and ()ther prizes awarded in the athletic com- petitions. They will look for their help again next year in the hope that Greek Week will become an annual event that will introduce and reacquaint students to the strong Greek tradition at Union, the Mother of Fraternities. Films on Gay Lifestyle November 3,9 p.m. \Witches Gild faggots - Dyl<es and Poofters\ November 1019 p.m. \Straight Tal~ About lesbians'' Strauss Lounge Discussion will follow

Ill Ill 0 0:: 0 Ol '- ~ >- .c ~ 0 ~ a. Page.4 CONOORDIENSIS, Octob6r !9~ 1981 1 features .«:' Mr. Rymaruk demonstrates karate techniques to a student. Days Without Passion Ry ROBERTA RUBINSTEIN the peoples of other nations. drama to our less than passionate lives? . , All this is not to say,\Hey lets start a revolution\ 'but instead, \how about going out and just raising a little hell.\ Karate· at Union ByLOGANCRESGO and MARGO ROSS Once a week students and faculty, young and old gather together in the evening to learn self-defense througb the art of Okinawan Karate under the learned hand of Ihor Rymaruk (rye-mar•ick). The class provides the rare opportunity to gain skill and confidence in Self- defense under controlled fighting conditions. Mr. Rymaruk (a seasoned black belt) teaches you an \awareness\ of yourself with respect to real life fighting conditions. \90 percent of all attack moves can be broken down into six or seven basic motions\ and it is with these basic motions in mind th~t the class studies the techniques of Ueche Ryu (way-chee-ru) practicing until they can per- form them automatically. The course demands no special skills or coordination, simply the desire to learn, coupled with an open mind. The class is only as physically demanding as the student wishes it to be. Workouts in- clude one on one exercises practicing punches, blocks, etc. However, contact is limited to that with which the student feels comfortable (facial contact is prohibited). Each session concludes with \What if's\ where students ask Mr. Rymaruk what to do in a ,par- ticular situation. Mr. Rymaruk then proceeds to demonstrate with a vohmteer the proper technique. Mr. Rymaruk, Director and Chief Instructor of the Amsterdam Uechi Karate. School, began hiS study of Karate in 1963. While in the Marine Corps he studied Kempo Karate on Okinawa, and at horne he trained combat troops in the art of self-defense. After an honorable discharge from the service, he again ventured to Okinawa and studied Shorin Ryu Karate under Master Nagajema; Since 1971 Mr .. Rytnaruk has been practicing and studying Uechi Ryu KaFate, which is a classical Chinese- Okinawan Martial Art .prac~ ticed for health and self defense. He has taught here at Union since 1976. They call us dispassionate and self-involved. College students of the present day are described as \clean-cut preps\ who couldn't give a damn about all the injustices in life. Insults are being hurled at us from all ends. And it is getting more and more difficult to assert that we, d., in fact get inv()lved in events outside of our surrealistic world. In this sense it· is quite, un~ derstandable that today's students no longer wish to •·•proselytize\ anti-establish- ment propaganda. But even this does not get at the heart of the matter. There are in fact occasions when students at- tempt to discuss the various problems with the Reagan administration. And certainly political science majors 'ap- pear' to know what is happening on the political scene-but on the whole, political consciousness and student activism ·has dropped dramatically. Even the patriotic 'all-americans' are remaining fairly mute. Sailors CoDle About The informal and friendly atmosphere of the class is in contrast to the bruising and exhausting image of Karate instruction familiar to the general public. Yet the results of the class lack no ef· fectiveness when applied by a properly trained person. The techniques· can be modified to compensate for individual vunerabilities i.e. (eyeglasses, lameness, etc.). Mr. Rymaruk welcomes females to attend the class. Karate is well suited to their size and weight, being created initially to balance the disparity between the small person and a larger aggressor. Last year, Lisa Birnban, author of the Preppy Handbook, tonred a number of college campuses, and in a article that appeared in Rolling Stone magazine, she made mention of the dramatic contrasts between todays students and the students who populated the campuses a decade ago. Cer- tainly times change and along with these changes so to do the appearances and attitudes of generations. But why is it that our generation is cha'racteriz~d by selfishness and lack of m- terest? What happened to the passion filled days of the sixties, where the incidences of student ac- tivism and the strife for non-· conformity was the everyday routine? (Certainly not every student of the sixties was a left wing radical but there were evidently enough anti- establishment types on campus, to scare the pants off the All- Americans.) Well, onP. possibility may be that today's (clean cut preppy) student doesn't particularly want to be labeled a revolutionary commie pinko. And maybe we are a little embarassed about our past record of, shall I say, infidelity to our infamous \starS and stripes\. Mter~ll, our country has not exactly maintained the utmost respect from her 'younger' population, and without such support it is not likely that America will he respected by The point is that the spot-light is no longer on \the college student\. The events that took place on the campuses of Berkeley and Kent State at one time made the headlines of newspapers across the nation. Now it seems that these colleges are only mentioned in the back pages of sports sections and in the nostalgic conversation of leftover flower children who find themselves trapped inside of pin-stripped suits! ! Where has the strong sense of social obligation and political concern gone? VVhy do we no longer see daily rallies and passionate protests against the serious injustices that still persist in our own day and age? Is it true that our only motivation is insuring that we can achieve a guaranteed in- come which will . keep us comfortable in later life? Aren't ideals such as equality and social justice worth striving for? or· is it that today's students feel that these· issues are no longer in their hands? Well, it seems to me that if this were true we might as well abandon the ideals of democracy and let Ronnie R. take total control. Admittedly this might sound a bit mellow- dramatic, but what is. wrong with adding som~ mell~w- ~~c1~ · 464 State St. Schenectady, NY A~ ~~ -.WE DELIVER- 374-1888 ByB.H.L. The 'Union College Sailing Club (formerly known as the Yacht Racing Association) is a very young but determined group. After a year of confused management and insufficient Student Activities funding, the Club has turned around (come about!) and become a strong organized group of fifteen or so students. The Sailing Club has no boats of their own but have worked out an arrangement with the RPI sailors whereby for the cost of a beer-ball they are allowed to borrow their boats and practice with the RPI team. The only restrictions on this arrangement is that we can only go over for a practice when they go out (and we all know about the study habits of those RPiers.'') The closest place to put the boats into the water is in- the Mohawk River at a slip just morth of the Latham Circle Mall. The boats the club rents are mostly Vanguards 420' s, a small fourteen foot craft with a mainsail and a jib. There are also a few Force 5 sailboats. They have scheduled ap- proximately eight meets (regattas) a team, with a few exclusive freshman races. Most of the races are made up of nearby teams: Suny Maritime, Kings Point, Buchnell,. RPI, Sienna, Albany; but a few races require the team to make a weekend of J.t and stay over- night: Army, Navy. The Club races with an A team and ·a B team, therefore four people can Happy Halloween race in each meet. Two weeks ago the Sailing Club placed third overall in a race at the New York Marina Yacht Club. The Club has petitioned the Finance Committee for money to purchase life jackets for the Club team members. Admit- tedly, the Club has little means to attract new members off the street because they don't have their own boats or marina, but if you are interested, the Club would be more than happy to take you out for a sail! To see the class in action, or join, come to the wrestling room in Alumni Gym at 11 p.m. on Mondays or call the Athletic Department. In the words of one student, \Karate can be as much or as little as you like. One can not help but benefit from the increased coor· dination, speed and confidence that one acquires through the study of the art.\ J. .l .• _,_ JIIIJI.~.IIIJ.l~l~I~.IJ.lJTli~I~~~IJ_IJ.I~IlT ~ ~ ....., I- \\' ~ Sculpture Techniques ~ The Department of the Arts will be giving a : series of practical demonstrations in sculptural ~ techni.ques: how to work with wood, clay, ~ plaster, stone and metal. Demonstrations will be ~ given by sculptor Alex Markhoff, and deal with ~ tool sharpening, joint design, roughing out, and H carving. They will be held on Thursdays, from 3- ~ 5 p.m. in the sculpture studio, Arts Building, ~ room 115. All are invited to attend. ~ ~ 1-- ~ October 29-- Wood I November 5--Wood II November 12--Wood Ill November 19--Piaster I December 3-~Piaster II ~·· .... ' ~ .,, ' \\ '. . COCKTAIL tOUN GE. Friday Nite Is Union Nite Serving Lunches Mon.-Fri. 11-4 Sat. 12-4 X12S JIAY az $1.00 off Any Meal w-Union ID Dinners Served Tues.-Fri. 4-8 Sat.: 4-8 phone: 382-9635 · \Home of the Schenectady Chiefs\ Hockey tickets on sale at 10 percent discount \Step out and come alive!\ come to Brad's! I J U: u~ ki th vi u ar V1 WI sa Tl ·Of gi U: AI fe th ax fa SE G w A b• fa st at w fa to 0~ r< ei H C< p: p: is G

I ·- r g • . , ~ !;.. lf It y n d .e .e ;s f. a ,e ;o ll 3, k te ;o g te 11 r. If n ill lc te lS e. It r- !e te . CONOORDlENSIS, October 29, 1981. Page 5 feature Jackson's Gardens: A Ghostly Tale A Letter From France By THOMAS CHING It can never be said that the Union campus lacks spirit. However, there exists another kind of . spirit that transcends that feeling after a Dutchmen victory. In Groot's Kill, part of Union's Jackson's Gardens, another spirit-that of Alice Van Veer--prevails. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to say the ghost of Alice Van Veer. This relatively obscure member of the campus community is given a brief introduction in the Union catalogue and was in the August 28, 1957 issue of Life feature on the ghostly spirits of the Northeast. According to legend, Alice and her suitor (sic) whom her father had forbiddened her to see, were. strolling along Groot's Kill. The couple unknowingly was followed by Alice's father. As they sat beside Groot's Kill, Alice's father crept up behind them and shot his daughter's lover. Alice, apparentlY\ quite upset, fled with her father, who was followed closely by the local townsfolk. The father was caught and burned alive; Alice met with the same fate. After being tied to a tree in a grove of oaks beside the Kill, she was roasted by the townsfolk. So ended Alice's little rendevous in 1672. The legend, although never confirmed by historians, is still part of Union's history. Another part of the unconfirmed legend is that Alice's lover's name was Groot, who unselfishly gave his name to that . .part of Jackson's Gardens. And there are still those who say that when the moon is full the ghost of Alice can be seen near an old burned pine in a grove of oaks and in the air there can be sensed a pungent, lingering smell of smoke. So, bewareofghosts and goblins as you stroll through the Gardens this Halloween! By GALE VAN ORE Twenty-three Union College students are in the middle of · their fourth week of fall term, only in a new setting: Rennes, France. For the past few weeks, we have b~ adjusting to and enjoying the French life style. Let me recount some of our experience. This past weekend we went on an excursion which featured various castles in the Loire Valley and a stop at Angers to see the famous tapestries of Jean Lurcat. Lurcat's oc- cidental art, entitled ''Songs of the World,\ were both beautiful and sensitive; everyone en- joyed his comments on his work. Each visit to the castles was notably different: at Boumois, our tour guide was a character-his humor made stomping through the rain worthwhile. At Azay-le-Rideau, we had arrived too late and Acclaim ·Bestowed By MARK MORTENSEN If all goes well, an article by Daro Beninati of .the Union College Arts department will be the cover story for a for- thcoming edition of a national magazine. Technicians Are Killing People (The New Realities Of Visual Effects), by Daro Beninati with Seth Mendelowitz, will appear in the January-February issue of Lighting Dimensions, a magazine written for and read by producers, technicians and others across the country. The most recent cover story was about Walt Disney's Strange Compassion, revealing some of the technical secrets involved in its production, and Beninati's article should be no less im- portant. Due to an increase in fire safety regulations and the ever present danger of fires with explosives and open flames, Beninati has designed alter- native method of producing Stereo & T.V. Repairs 393 .. 8962 Licensed-Experienced Technician desired effects. He sites a six month hospital stay for a technician who was badly burned by a prematurely ex- ploding fleshpot and related incidents to underscore the need for new, safer methods. Appearing with the article will be several photographs, many devoted to a step-by-step presentation of the manufac- ture of an exploding window unit triggered by mousetraps. Eliminating the explosives to make a mechanical, safe unit that will produce the same effect is the goal of his work. In a recent interview, Beninati explained that people's reactions to the effects make them real. '~When people are watching a play, and the wife dies and the husband cries, the audience is brought to tears, even though they know that she's not reaHy his wife, and he's not really crying, and she's not dead. People go into the Prepare for GRE Dec. 12/Feb. 6 Exam TESTING REVIEW SERVICE 28 Brickley Dr., Albany NY 12205 (518) 447-5755 theatre and enter a different reality.\ He went on to say that no matter how the effect is done, the audience will believe if it appears· to be real. That, coupled with the fact that his mechanical effects aren't as expensive as fireworks and explosives, make his newly designed mechanism so im- portant. No stranger to the field of writing, Beninati has written several scripts, the latest of , which, Emma, Portrait of a Re}!el, is soon to be produced in Los Angeles. He has had seven previous magazine articles published, all in Canadian Boy right after he got out of high school. He is currently working with the cast and crew of The Good Doctor, which will be another of the thirty-some productions he has worked on in the past three years. Seth Mendelowitz, a Union student, and Barry Watkins of security assisted Beninati. 136 Jay Street Downtown Schenectady • 346-2719 UN I 0 N COLLEGE RESTAU.RANT PUB 5CHENE.CTADY 1 N.Y. (2.308 A Mid Term Break Special for You Saturday Night 5 to 8 p.m. 8 Cut P·izza and Pitcher of Soda or Beer $5.00 coordinator of the program, M. LeCalvez, had to lead the tour. But, the most enjoyable was Chenonceaux becausE of its splendor and the fact that we could explore it ourselves (with an English pamphlet! ) Although it was the general concensus that we could easily adapt to living in the castles, with all their grandeur, I think our breath was really taken away at the sight of Mont Saint Michel, which we visited the weekend before. Mont Saint Michel is.one of the 7 wonders of the world; the bus driver knew just where to stop to let us takf pictures. The abbey b surrounded by water and is still a mystery to man. Believe it or not, we do not miss Happy Hour at the 'skellar or Pub because here wine is cheap, plentiful and proper at any lunch or dinner! Red wine. camernbert cheese, a loaf of French bread and fruit is always a welcomed lunch, along with a trip to the \patisserie\ for dessert! The group itself gets along well. We always compare our families, talk about who we have heard-or not heard!-from at Union or what we did the night before. Prof. W arger and his wife have made a real effort to get to know us better and become our friends. Prof. Warger will often join us for lunch . at the restaurant universitaire (\Reste U\) and Mrs. Warger attends class with us. They are always concerned about what we're up to, from Jean Carney's cold, to my camera problem, to Keith Kolber's plans for Taissaint. Classes are in deed, a challenge; everything is taught in French and one must con- centrate. We are taking con- temporary French literature, French civilization and a grammar course. We were exhausted at the end of the first week from the transition. Complaints about families are almost non-existent; everyone enjoys the inside view of French life, from un· derstanding the educational system through our \brothers and sisters\ to learning how to eat air fruit, wt.ich is served at the end of every meal. Andy Erskine now swallows his grape pits to \fit i~\ with tbe family! In some cases, families go out of their way to accomodate us; Sean Seibert has access to the family car and John Dragoon rides around town on his family's moped. My own family, the Treguiers, made me feel right at home, too. My mother, Marguerite, is teaching me to knit and Carol Hanretta and I are planning a Thanksgiving dinner for our two families. All in all, we are having a successful term here in France and wish everyone at Union the samel Applications will be accepted for the spring Term A broad in Vienna until Novernber 6. A prerequisite Gennan course ts necessary to participate in thts term. Professor Antort Warde will be the resident director f0r the program. Students will take two German language courses. The third course will con- centrate on German and Austrian art and architecture. Several field trips have been arranged so that students can visit some of the cultural and historical landmarks. For further information, see Professor Warde, Joan Freeman, or Professor Thomas in the Terms Abroad office, HU211.

Page 6 CONOORDIENSIS, OctobeT S9, 1981 · feature Killer Burritos Attack lntelle:ctual ,CabG·ret By RICHARD BlEGEN In the almost nightly card playing sessions that go on at 103 Seward Place; the game (hearts) is not the only object of our concentrations. For one, there are a plethora of offerings available on cable T.V., from sports to movies. One can often be distracted from his play by the likes of ''Revenge of the Cheerleaders.\ Everynight after several hands, the par· ticipants become hungry and cards become secondary to Food. Food for hearts players ranges from the rarely ordered Pizza or Freihoffer cookies to the more usual homemade chili dogs or cheeseburgers. On very special occasions we go all out and make burritos. Last Sun· day, (cable channel) M TV decided to air the classic \Attack of the Killer Tomatoes,\ and this qualified as a \very special occasion.\ . Luckily for us, the movie was advertised a week in advance and this gave us time to make the necessary preparations, , including the obligatory Cliopper run. There would be a five way game of hearts with the movie starting at Midnight. At about 12:30the Burritos were ready. These Burrito's were of the Red Hot variety (Not the kind of red hot that is measured in celsius), and the Five of us consumed over two gallons of cola. The Burritos therefore christened \Killer Burritos\ after the nights feature movie, and I credited intestinal for· titude rather than skill for the victory in the game that night. We dare the SOT team to eat this: . John Copolla's Killer Burritoes llb boneless pork chops sliced thin 2 lbs ground beef 1 lb mild sausage 16 ounce can Old elpaso Refried beans 1 lge hd lettuce 1 lb mild cheddar cheese 28 ounce can tomatoes two thirds lb Jalepeno pep- pers 1 pt bottle cherry peppers 1 tblsp garlic powder · 1 tsp minced onion 1 tblsp salt 4 bags old elpaso taco mix 20 bottles of cola (16 ounce) 1 box of tissues Alka Seltzer Tablets to taste Money For The Asklng $3,000,000,000 College Scholarships and Grants Let our computer match your .background and abilities with the requirements of the various grant giving organi· zations. Processing Fee only $45.00 cuaranteed Results for complete Information, mall coupon r~---------------~ 1 Educational Research service 1 1 J Past Office Elo>e 292 · I Clifton Park, N.Y. 12065 I I I I Name 1 I I IM~$ I I .I I I I The s-ervice vou Can't AHord I Nottouse I L----------------~ Recipe Note: S stands for sauce; F stands for filling. S 1) Trim and Brown pork F 2) Brown Hamburger F 3) Brown Sausage F 4) Dt·ain Hamburger and Sausage, and combine in large pot F 5) Grate cheese and set aside F 6) Dice lettuce and set aside F 7) Heat Refried Beans S 8) Puree tomatoes and pour two thirds into saucepan S9) Washandcorepeppers with remaining tomato puree and pour into a saucepan S 10) Add salt, garlic powder, and onions to puree and simmer for 15 minutes S 11) Drain and dice browned pork and add to sauce F 12) Add taco mix to meat mixture F 13) Add refried beans to meat mixture stirring until well blended; cook under low light for 10 minutes 14) Heat tortilla shells' for 10 minutes at 350 degrees 15) Spoon meat filling over tortilla shell to make a line a·bout 1lh inches thick 16) Spoon cheese and then lettuce over filling, then fold over the sides . of the tortilla shell. Delicately flip the burrito over so the folded side can't be seen 17) Spoon as much sauce as you dare over the burrito · 18) Serve with as much cola as necessary with tissues and Alka s·ettzer nearby Serves5 By A. A. REYNOLDS Monday night the Intellectual Cabaret is presenting a Cabaret entitled '\Genetic Engineering\ with .Professors But~el (Biology Department), Kaminsky (Philosophy Department), and Tobiessen (Biology Depart- ment). The discussion should prove interesting as each professor has a particular perspective on this issue. Professor Butzel, for instance, is interested. in the possible consequences that putting genetic enghieering in the realm of business may have on the future of biolog~cal research. The future of the Green Revolution concerns Professor Tobiessen. (The Green Revolution refers to the improvement of agricultural yields by developing new strains of things such as corn, wheat, and co~tou.) · AT THE RAT: Goblins and Witches and Ghosts There is also the argument abo11t whether or not genetic engineering should take place at all. This type of argument is rooted, not only in the super- stitious fear of mutant .mon~ sters, but also in the basiC questions concerning the quality of life, and who is to determine what the '''good li£e'' is. Some may argue that we shollldn't tinker with God's handiwork, or that we are trading one evil (poverty, malnutrition) for another (a highly technological society which. has diminishing respect for individuals). These, . and other \ethical\ issues will be addressed by Professor Kaminsky. Wbether you are a proponent, and opponent, or merely am. bivalent, come to the ·Cabaret room for an invigorating; educational, and inexpensive eve.ning discussing future life! Beware!! THE MOOSE IS LOOS-E! SAT., OCT. 31 9 p_m - Close Door Prizes for Best Costumes . Beer . 75c per bottl-e CHALLENGING ENGINEERING .. POSITI·ONS WITH PROFESSIONAL GROWTH Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, Portsmouth. New Hampshire. has openings for: Electrical Engineers • Electronics Engineers Mechanical· Engineers The Shipyard's assigned mission is to modernize, refuel, convert, and repair NUCLEAR SUBMARINES. Work in- volves design, development, and testing of submarine systems and equipment. Career advancement to $25,00 plus based on performance. BS Engineering degree and U.S. citizenship required. Benefits include 13·26 working days paid vacation-·9 paid holidays--13 working days paid sick .leave--outstanding retirement program--choi-ce of health & life Insurance programs. Portsmouth Naval Shipyard was established in 1800 and employs over 8,000 employees. The Shipyard is a leader in the Life-cycle maintenance and modernization of Nuclear ·Nuclear Engineers Civil Engineers Submarines and of,fers unparalleled challenge and op- portunity. Portsmouth Naval Shipyard is located in the heart of -vacationland. All season sports and other activities are available within minutes. The Shipyard Engineer Recruiter will be on campus on Nov, 4, 1981. If. you cannot make this interview and are interested in employment, submit your resume to: Industrial Relations Office, Code 170.$, Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, Portsmouth, NH 03801. There will be an informal get-together, Tuesday, November3, 1981 between 7 and 9 p.m. at the Student Center, CarnegiE! Hall, 4th Floor. I ..

.. OONOORDIENSIS, October B9, 1981 ·Page 7 ~rts & · Culture . . - . ' ' . ·. • - r • • ' ' '' ~· ' ·~' •' ' - Union's Male Singers \Some Reflections on Grow#t and Change in Walt Whitman's Leales of Grass\ By MICHAEL SHARP The Union College Men's Glee Club is a staunch organization with members who firmly believe in the collective power of their voices. The . par- ticipating students regard the club as more than just, a choir organization, rather they feel that they belong to a finely tuned, precision machine. The singers rarely make mistakes, and when they do they're frequently exhorted to better their efforts with taunts such as \That soUn.ded like Amherst, etc.\ What can one say? Are they really that good? To be honest with you, it appears that they are. The history of the club is impressive. Throughout its' existence the Glee Club has been garlanded with many prestigious awards and has had many notable performances. Before the phasing out of the Intercollegiate Musical Con- tests at Carnegie Hall, Union would always garner a top national ranking. For example, at the fifteenth contest in 1931 the Dutchmen ranked among the top five men's college glee clubs in the country. Presently, there are only non-competitive festivals. Even so, Union is acknowledged as stm being one of the top five. As for notable performances, the list goes on forever. Names that come to mind are Alice Tully Hall and A very Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center, the steps of New York City's Tqwn Hall, the 1977 tour of Venezuela, .and even the lawn of the White House at the behest of President Jimmy Carter. These are but a small sample of the club's many outstanding performances. It's no wonder that in the UDion Alumnus of January 1951 an editor made the timeless ob- servance that \The Glee Club is probably our best off campus advertising medium . . . \ There is no doubt that the club is a prestigious organization. But oddly enough the status of · the club seems to be a secon· dary concern to the singers. If . ACROSS 6 Asian coin 1 Coterie 7 Sick 4 Month 8 Place of the 9 Conjunction seal: Abbr. 12 Transgress 9 Time gone by 13 Shore birds 10 Burmese 14 Merry demon 15 Portuguese 11 Stain coin , 17 Apportions . 16 Asian sea 19 Above 17 Speck 20 Soak 18 Wall painting 21 Collect 20 Scale note 22 Canadian 21 Silver symbol peninsula 23 Moccasin 24 Emasculate 24 Colonize 25 English 28 Chart streetcar 30 Smashed 26 Monkey's kin one engages in conversation with a Glee Club member and has a little patience, enough anyway to get them past hearing about . the club's awards, one will hear about the primary concern of the singers. A concern which is in a way the foundation of the honored tradition and reputation of the club and wbich happens to be their love of singing. It seems almost humorous that such a basic concept should' be the basis of the existence of the Glee Club; and yet it is. For all of the members their love of singlng is what keeps them and the club going. Without this love there would have been no awards,· no. national recognition, no anything. It is the rock bottom foundation and the continual nourishment of the club. It seems that for some time there has always been someone interested in singing at Union College. Back in 1869 The Union College Musical AsSQciation as founded, which was the fore runner of the present Men's Glee Club. The Association was formed in an effort to collect and perform the songs that had been developed at Union over the previous 74 years, (since 1795). So, the reputation of the club has been building for quite some time. No small contribution to the expertise of the singers is their conductor and faculty advisor professor Hugh Allen Wilson, who has been with the club since 1963.. Professor Wilson is .a world reknown organist and harpsichordist, who has made close to 1500 performances since beginning his professional career in 1949. He has received many honors, including the Woods-Chandler Prize, the Steinway Citation, and the Union College Alumni Meritorious Service Award. Regardless of his fame he still works closely with the students. Tile club members might speak of him with awe, yet he is also referred to as a friend and teacher. The Glee Club is managed by CROSS WORD PUZZLE FROM COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE 32 Old gold alloy 27 Dropsy . 38 Weld 49 Girl's name 50- Baba 52 Exist · 34 Shoshonean 29 Stone 42 Negative 35 Identical 31 Devoured 45 Wine cups 36 Slivers 33 Bishop's 46 Journey 39 Mute headdress 47 Opening 40 Sota· 37 Seine 48 Time period 41 .Electrified particle 43 Sun god 44 Latin con- junction 45 Apportion 47 Wheel tooth 50 Among 51 Uncooked 54 Limb 55 Fire 56 Anger 57 Remunera~ tlon .58 Step part 59 Fondle DOWN 1 Weight of India 2 Before 3 Decorate 4Macaws 5 Pilot's need 53 Damp 55 Bromine symbol .Answers on Pa e 10 the students, who get financing from the school tax committee. The president of the Club is Tim Cooley '82. 'Under Tim is a governing board consisting .of vice-president Tim Smith '84, treasurer Lee Dayton '84, secretary Dan Rosenthal '83,. concert managers Andrew Gavin '83 and Mitch Chess '83, and publicity manager Tim McNearny '83. In charge of keeping in order the club's extensive repertoire of classical and contemporary works is Librarian Andy Lukasik. For the remainder of the fall term the club will perform on the road. November 8th they'll be at Wellesly, and November 21st they sing at Marist. Their · next home performance will be around February 27th and they plan at least one other home concert during Winter term. Presently there are about · thirty-five club members, but more students are welcome and encouraged to join. Anyone interested can contact any officer or sbow up at rehearsal either Monday evening at 6:15 or Thursday evening at 10:00 in Arts 202. A presentat.ion by Dr. Harold W. Blodgett, Uniolil College's Thomas Lamont Professor of Ancient and · Modern Literature Emeritus Friday, October 30at 8p.m. in SS 016 ~ informalreception to follow in Music Room of Shaffer Library Union College Coffeehouse performers Dan HCJimes and Rich Mancini, from the cover of their single, \I Want to Be/Hearts of Ice.\ Coffeehouse Review: Holm·es and Mancini By NAOMI BLANK On Friday night, a full crowd rose to its feet applauding Homes and Mancini, a duo who played at Coffeehouse. D.an Holmes and Rich Mancini, two guitarists from Utica, played to . an audience that thoroughly enjoyed their music. They could do nothing but please their listeners. \\ The two musicians, at their College Talent Search NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY--All entries must be received in the A.C.T.S. office by 5 p.m., . December 4, 1981! Any type .of performing talent is eligible in . this nationwide search for the best collegiate talent in the country. ~ Students submit entries on · video cassettes or cassette tapes with photographs. Entry fee is $25. All contestants are eligjble to be selected for a tour of Europe or the Orient spgn- sored by the United States Department of Defense. Every entry wi II be judged by top educational and en- · tertainment in,dustry professiona Is! Winners qualify for $.14,000 in cash and scholarship prizes plus auditions by American Theatre Productions, The Entertainment Connecti.on, · The Oakland Ballet Company and Warner Brothers Records. Nationa I final.ists will compete \live\ at New Mexico State University,· January 16, 1982and will serve collectively as an opening act for several major entertainers · including Christopher Cross, Johnny Rodriguez and Dinah Shore. For additional Information and entry forms contact the Music or Activities Depart- ment on your campus or call or write: ALL-AMERICAN COLLEGIATE TALENT SEARCH, Box 35 E, New Mexico State University, Las , , Cruces, New Mexico 88003, (505) 646\4413. It's easy to enter! Act Now! first Union engagement, opened · with\ Here Comes the Sun\ and continued to play many old faeorites. They sung the music ofthe Beatles, catching both the style and voice of the famed group. Dan Fogelberg, Billy Joel, Neil Young, and Jim Croce were among the artists whose music they shared with the enthusiastic crowd. This was no mellow Cof- feehouse, as people stood clapping along with the num· bers. Requests were granted as Pure Prairie League's \Aimee\ and Grateful Dead's •·•Friend of the Devil\ were cheered on. The group was no ordinary duo as Dan Holmes played the har· monica to aid in the authenticity ofthe tunes' sounds. In addition, Dan used his guitar for back up · to the amazement of the crowd. Hohnes and Mancini were full of other surprises as well. For example, among their reper-. toire were some television themes which had the crowd laughing and singing along. Finger snapping with \The Addams Family,'' the clapping with \Green Acres,\ the ad- dition of sound effects to \Gilligan's Island,\ and con- cluding with the relaxing \Theme from M+A+S+H\ created a great mood throughout the Cabaret Room's full-capacity audience. Added to the old favorites were some original tunes in-. eluding \I Want To Be\ which thoroughly pleased the crowd. The duo currently has an album out on Denim Records. The consensus was definitely positive as the audience en- couraged a third encore. Cof- feehouse was alive and enjoyed by all who attended. Holmes and Mancini will be gladly welcomed back to Union College in the future. Poetry Contest A $1,000 grand prize will be awarded in the upcoming poetry competition sponsored by World of Poetry, a quarterly newsletter for poets. Poems of all styles and on any subject are elgible to compete for the grand prize or for 99 other cash or merchandise awards, totaling over· $10,000~ Says Contest Chairman, Joseph Mellon, \We are en- couraging poetic talent of every kind, and expect our contest to produce exciting discoveries.\ Rule and official entry forms are available from the World of Poetry, 2431 Stockton Blvd., Dept. D, Sacramento, California, 95817. Union College continues to offer a. program in dance for credit or audit. One-third credit per term is given to students taking two classes a week. Thus, at the end of the academic year, a student's transcript wi II show one credit for the dance practicum. For those wl1o wish to pre- register, the Winter Term schedule is as follows: Tuesday-~ l: 30~3 Ballet II Tuesday--4: 30-6 Modern Dance I Wednesday--1: 30-3 Ballet I Wednesday-·4: 30-6 Modern Dance Ill Thursday--1: 30~3 Ba I let I II & Workshop Thursday~-3-4: 30 Modern Dance I Thursday--4: 30-6 Modern Dance II For further information contact the Arts Department Office (370-6201).

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, October 89, 1981 Editorials Letters Minority Awareness The Black and Latin Alliance of Students., B.L.A.S, is one of the groups hit hardest by the budget cuts this year. B.L.A.S. requested $12,050 this past year, and was recommended $2,305, a fraction of what they wanted. Certainly, .all groups were cut to some extent this year, but the situation wtth B.L.A.S. is dU~ ferent. The question is not how much, but why they were cut to the extent that they were. · B.L.A.S. performs a vitally important function on campus. It is the vehicle by which minorities on this campus have the freedom to explore and discover that which is of interest to them. We must all face the fact that the large, ''campus wide\ organizations do not, and possibly should not, cater to the interests of the minorities; after all, their interests are indeed in the minority. It may be argued that members of B.L.A.S. should become more active in the rest of campus life. It is agreed that they should, but that still does not solve their problem. It should be understood by the Finance Committee, the Forum,. and the entire student bOdy that the B.L.A.S. is really a \student activities\ within a group. They have their own \social committee,\ their own \speaker's forum,\ and so forth. In the past, B.L.A.S. has been told that tf they want speakers that interest them, they should approach Speaker's Forum. Speaker's Forum couldn't and shouldn't cater to the B.L.A..S. They must do what is the best in- terests of the majority of students, in the same way that the Social Committee must when B.L.A.S. requests an ethnically flavored disco party. We must become more aware of the role that the minority students have on this campus. The \college experience\ is one of growth and discovery. Allowing B.L.A.S. to invite speakers, present cultural displays, and exercise freedom. to appreciate their heritage will create a healthier and more informative at- mosphere on campus. The above argument does not imply that we are in favor of the exact amou:n.t of money requested. A possible guideline to be followed is that if the Social Com- mittee is allocated funds for one function per term, then B.L.A.S. should be allotted funds for one proportionately smaller scale function per term. If Speaker's Forum is funded for five speakers per year, than B.L.A.S. should be funded proportionately for five speakers per year. With that reasoning behind the funding of B.L.A.S., an intelligent compromise can be reached. They won't need all of the money that they requested, but they will be able to do at least some of what is in their right to do. When the \why'' of funding the B.L:A.S. is thought out carefully and clearly, the \how much\ of the matter will for the most part take care of itself. It Is Not Funny. Union College students are supposed to be mature and responsible. In relation to some of our peers, this is apparently not the case. This past week several in- cidents occurred worthy of note. First, the east wall of the new Athletic Field was marred by graffiti. Second, the ground area in front of the Chester Arthur statue, and a portion of th.e base, was littered by a white substance. Third, two of the four hanging plants in the front lobby of Carnegie Hall were stolen, and finally, pieces of paper have been wedged into some dormitory fire alarms to quiet the bells. Perhaps the question here is not so much the damage that id sone, or the in· convenience of correcting the situation, but the lack of concern for the rights and feelings of others. For example, we hope that the individual or individuals who are now enjoying the beauty of the plants understand the consequences of the act. Those plants were part of an effort by Ms. Lorraine Marra to improve the atmosphere of Carnegle flail by adding a \touch of nature.\ She has worked hard, as have all of the people involved in Stu,dent Activities, to make the department a pleasant place to work, and an efficient operation. Something like this is very upsetting, and only serves to frustrate those who have only good intentions. In this respect, the crime was more serious than petty theft. The ''prank'' of fixing a fire alarm is inherently very serious. The alarms are loud. This is a fact. It might even occur to some why the companies who made the alarms made them that way. Does it make sense to have a fire alarm that makes no noise? Those students who silence the fire alarms have absolutely no right to endanger the lives of their fellow students. We ~1 shouldn't have to suffer for th-e inconsiderate and malicious acts of others. · The desecration of Chet Arthur and the blatant disrespect for the new field speak for themselves. These are just two more examples of how some disregard the feelings and rights of others. It is important to many, as it should be, to maintain and live on a campus that is pretty, clean and .,collegiate.\ Acts of vandalism deface objects that others hold in high regard, and reduce the ap- pearance of the campus to that of an inner city slum. Of course, it speaks ill of the individuals who exhibit such behavior. We are curious as to what motivates these people to take 'advantage of a situation, and abuse others and the property. Additionally, what can be done about it? It is a very serious problem, and it reflects an unhealthy attitude. It ill? also a question that should be addressed by the Student Forum and the ad· ministration in an attempt to prevent the recurrence of similar incidents. It is everybody's responsibility to protect the property and rights of everyone else. Those who participated in these acts should be ashamed, and those who either witnessed them, or are affected by them, should be outraged. We are. '' ••• polic.r should be settled b.r .free discussion; normall.r a minorit.r should be read.r to .rield to a ma}orit.r which in turn should respect a minorit.r's sacred things.'' Pilgrim's Way, 1940 EW.tors-in-Chief. Managing Editor Associate Managing Editor News Editors Features Editor · Arts & Features Editor Associate Arts·& Features Editor Campus Page Editors · Rachel I. Mandel, Paul 'Grossman Julie Isgro Diane Pavacic Naomi Blank, Ed Albro Judi LeeChervenak Bob Fox Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Sports Editors Jay McDennott, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Drew Hurley Women'sSportsEditor CoryLewkowicz Photo Editor Mindy Broser Sports Photo Editor Steve Lerner. Cartoonists David Neiblwn, Lisa Snyder Staff Mandy Abrams, Saul Berley, Richard Biegen,; Alan Binkow, Norman Birnbach. Dan Booth. Thomas Ching,. Logan Cresap, .Steven R. Fallon, Regina Gough, Barton Hill Levine, I Doug Landon, Susan Linehan, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Mark Mortenson, D.C. Owens, Daniel Rosenfield, . Margo Ross, MichaelSharp, A.A. Terhune! Cindy J .. Tenner, Gale Vanore 1 Business Staff Jenny Arnler, Evelyn Gurdin I Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III Photo Staff Janet Giuliano,'Norman Pflaster; , · . . Robert Tang, Linda Wallen CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body· of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York • 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., .. 11 Division Street, Si4ney, New York 13838,. (60'1) $3-7151. Entered in. .the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscript~on' 'rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the tJn'ited .States. CONCORDmNSIS subscribes to the College Press SeiVice (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). ' Tot

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, October !9, 1981 Editorials ~ Letters Minority Awareness The Black and Latin Alliance of Students, B.L.A.S, is one of the groups hit hardest by the budget cuts this year. B.L.A.S. requested $12,(i)50 this past year, and was recommended $2,305, a fraction of what they wanted. Certainly, all groups were cut to some extent this year, but the situation with B.L.A.S. is dif- ferent. The question is not how much, but why they were cut to the extent that they were. B.L.A.S. performs a vitally important function on campus. It is the vehicle by which minorities on this campus have the freedom to explore and discover that which is of interest to them. We must all face the fact that the large, \campus wide\ organizations do not, and possibly should not, cater to the interests of the minorities; after all, their interests are indeed in the minority. It may be argued that members .of B.L.A.S. should become more active in the rest of campus life. It is agreed that they should, but that stUl does not solve their problem. It should be understood by the Finance Committee, the Forum, and the entire student body that the B.L.A.S. is really a \student activities\ within a group. They have their own \social committee,\ their own \speaker's forum,\ and so forth. In the past, B.L.A.S. has been told that if they want speakers that interest them, they should approach Speaker's Forum. Speaker's Forum couldn't and shouldn't cater to the B.L.A.S. They must do what is the best in· terests of the majority of students, in the same way that the Social Committee must when B.L.A.S. requests an ethnically flavored disco party. We must become more aware of the role that the minority students have on this campus. The \college experience\ is one of growth and discovery. Allowing B.L.A.S. to invite speakers, present cultural displays, and exercise freedom to appreciate their heritage will create a healthier and more informative at- mosphere on campus. The above argument does not imply that we are in fav()r of the exact amount of money requested. A possible guideline to be followed is that if the Social Com- mittee is allocated funds for one function per term, then B.L.A.S. should be allotted funds for one proportionately smaller scale function per term. If Speaker's Forum is funded for five speakers per year, than B.L.A.S. should be funded proportionately for five speakers per year. With that reasoning behind the funding of B.L.A.S., an intelligent compromise can be reached. They won't need all of the money that they requested, but they will be able to do at least some of what is in their right to do. When the \why'' of funding the B.L:A.S. is thought out carefully and clearly, the \how much\ of the matter will for the most part take care of itself. It Is Not Funny Union College students are supposed to be mature and responsible. In relation to some of our peers, this is apparently not the case. This past week several in- cidents occurred worthy of note. First, the east wall of the new Athletic Field was marred by graffiti. Second, the ground area in front of the Chester Arthur statue, and a portion of the base, was littered by a white substance. Third, two of the four hanging plants in the front lobby of Carnegie Hall were stolen, and finally, pieces of paper have been wedged into some dormitory fire alarms to quiet the bells. Perhaps the question here is not so much the damage that id sone, or the in- convenience of correcting the situation, but the lack of concern for the rights and feelings of others. For example, we hope that the individual or individuals who are now enjoying the beauty of the plants understand the consequences of the act. Those plants were part of an effort by Ms. Lorraine Marra to improve the atmosphere of Carnegie Hall by adding a \touch of nature.'' She has worked hard, as have all of the people involved in StU:dent Activities, to make the department a pleasant place to work, and an efficient operation. Something like this is very upsetting, and only serves to frustrate those who have only good intentions. In this respect, the crime was more serious than petty theft. The ''prank\ of fixing a fire alarm is inherently very se·rious. The alarms are loud. This is a fact. It might even occur to some why the companies who made the alarms made them that way. Does it make sense to have a fire alarm that makes no noise? Those students who silence the fire alarms have absolutely no right to endanger the lives of their fellow students. We all shouldn't have to suffer for the inconsiderate and malicious acts of others. The desecration of Chet Arthur and the blatant disrespect for the new field speak for themselves. These are just two more examples of how some disregard the feelings and rights of others. It is important to many, as it should be, to maintain and live on a campus that is pretty, clean and \collegiate.\ Acts of vandalism deface objects that others hold in high regard, and reduce the ap- pearance of the campus to that of an inner city slum. Of course, it speaks ill of the individuals who exhibit such behavior. We are curious as to what motivates these people to take 'advantage of a situation, and abuse others and the property. Additionally, what can be done about it? It is a very serious problem, and it reflects an unhealthy attitude. It is also a question that should be addressed by the Student Forum and the ad- ministration in an attempt to prevent the recurrence of similar incidents. It is everybody's responsibility to protect the property a.nd rights of everyone else. Those who participated in these acts should be ashamed, and those who either witnessed them, or are affected by them, should be outraged. We are. \ ... polic_y should be settled b_y _free discussion; normall.r a minorit_y should be read_r to _yield to a ma}orit_y which in turn should respect a minorit_r's sacred things.'' Pil~rim's Way, 1940 Pride. Respect,; To the Qmlpu1i: Pride. Jtespect. · Do these wor(l$ mean anything to you? They quite obviously mean nothing to someone here at Union. l'm referring most directly to the Praise . fOOeJlt' '~(Ui:WUJiJtH' OeC&Vatiflg the waJi.IVtlrttbe'~ side oftbe · NewAtllletie,,i.e.td •. 1b;aitypeQf graffiti might possibly be tolerated on the wan of a public bathroom ~- is that an our new · million....Wnar rieldsymbt'}Jizes? To th~ Editor: ' This spray-can-carrying ignoramus· nbviously has no On behalf. of the IFC I W{}uld respect for other's property\ no like to thank all of the frater* respect for dedicated athletes~ nitii!s and the entire campus no respect for the alumni and community .fnr making ol.U' friends who helped make the initial Greek Week an over* new field a t•eality, no respect whelming success, Speci.al for the campus community, and thanks also go to Mike therefore no respect for hiJn.. Andolina, Joe Cardino; T0o:m self. A sorry individual, to be Collette, Duncan MacKenzie, sure. Mrs. Marra, CON· Likewise, this low~class CORDIENSIS, Mark Ziskind moron seems to have no pride in and the Miller Brewing Co. the beautiful facility) no pride in Without their help, Greek Wet:ak Un~on College · A;thlet:ics~ 'Yld wuuld not have been a reality. · ultimately no pnde m Unum Now that it has been ac• College itself. Why is tbis complished onceJ hopefully person here? , Greek Week win grow into a Every Union College student campus tradition here at Unioo should feel personally insulted · and outraged by such Gratefullyyoun, irresponsible, delinquent DanielP. Logl.le behaVIor. After all, over 4~000 President~IFC people will have seen that wall by the end of this weekend's athletic competitions. None of those people will be thinking fif on~l di#tu.r: · will be tl'dnkiitg. . ,()f ···· t a . Secu,rity Pie~e · M,t1Jeoding .. love'b' inlpnessia ~Y . now haw of every Col• t~ the Editor: student. Think, abou1d't. Sine.erely, KarenA.,Scbmidt Editor~s Note: Well put, K.ar.en. We, too, feel that the graffiti is an outrage. We also Ed\tors-in-Cbief Managing Editor Associate Managing Editor News Editors Features Editor Arts & Features Editor Associate Arts·& Features Editor Campus Page Editors .Although I trust un:in.., tentional, your article asuggestiws for Safet:y•t was misleading if not de ... ceiving to the reader .. Tl} suggest that recent inciderots Continued on page 9 Rachel I. Mandel, Paul Grossman Julielsgo Diane Pavacic Naomi Blank, Ed Albro Judi Lee Chervenak . Bob Fox Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfred()nia Cbaris Richards Sports Editors Jay McDermott, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Drew Hurley Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Photo Editor Mindy Broser Sports Photo Editor Steve Lener Cartoonists David Neiblmn, Lisa Snyder Staff Mandy Abrams, SaulBerley, RichardBiegen,, Alan Binkow, Norman Birnbach, Dan Booth, Thomas Ching, Logan Cresap, Steven R. Fallon, Regina Gough, Barton Hill Levine, Doug Landon, Susan Linehan, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Mark Mortenson, D. C. Owens, Daniel Rosenfield, Margo Ross, Michael Sharp, A.A. Terhune 1 Cindy J. Tenner, Gale Van ore ·Business Staff Jenny Amler, Evelyn GW'din 1 Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III Photo Staff Janet Giuliano,'Norman Pflaster, , Robert Tang, Linda Wallen CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the stu<lent bOdy of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563~7151. Entered in. the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United .States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). .. - Co1lt invo stud witb thoo pl'J)t tb~t spe( desi inpl how \ha ~· tl).~ stue alik L our imp safE can our roo pla• cer1 one Ho~ an rna: car per por To s uni tre erE COl ·fla cal fin mE th( ch1 l in . dr bu th• or lo; lo C( 1il is Sl G S] g: rl f< d Si it b $' VI d s p ~ fl t ~ ~ f ( t f ( 1 l

·CONOORDIENS18, ''October S9, 1981 ·Page 9 Letters E·ditorials . . ~ The Finance Commit:fee Comments Answers About .Budgets Parking Continued from page l By PETER McCAFFREY I would like to take this op- · portunity to respond to the commentary in the October 22 issue of Concordiensls entitled \BudgEt Cuts a Joke.\ The context of the article grossly misrepr.esented the objectives ofthe Finance Committee and in that sense was irresponsible. The author bases much of the article on a listing of percentage cuts and £rom this concludes that they were of an ''arbitrary nature.\ What he failed to realize was that without a point of reference thistype of statistic is misleading. What I would like to suggest is that if there are any specific questions concerning an organi2ation, to :please contact me or make an appointment to meet with the committee through the Student Activities Office. The participation at tl'ie open finance meeting earlier in the week was encouraging and I wauld like to thank everyone who attended. I would also encourage continued com- munication and welcome constructive suggestions. Last week's article also in- cluded some misconceptions about the contingency fund. It was mentioned that long range planning would be affected as a result of deliberately cutting back funds. It is important that I make this next point clear. The funding that each organization has received to • • • crime prevention services, ought to be registered will be increased preventative patrols, fined fifty dollars. Any motor and going through buildings vehicle which receives five or more often. more traffic and parking When a vehicle is found violations will be deregistered. illegally parked in a fire lane, it Five thousand tickets were will be towed away im- issued last year. Ac~ording to mediately by a private com- Christopher Chadwick, \We'll pany at the owner's. e~pense. In . probably· double or triple that cases where illegally parked nwnber this year.\ Through cars are not in a fire lane, an community cooperation, he attempt will be made to find the hopes to reduce the growing owner before towing. The nwnber of illegally parked cars. company charges thirty-five As he said, \Through com- dollars for towing and seven munity cooperation we dollars a day for storage. shouldn't have a parking Unregistered-vehicles which problem anymore.\ date is for the entire year in- cluding long range plans. The resulting. $21,000 contingency fund will be used to cover un- foreseen costs a11d various new funding req\lests that we[\e not previously considered. It is not the intent of the Finance Committee to .play \god as was hastily suggested, only to distribute the student activity money in a .fair The Cu~ts: - . and consistent manner. If an organization feels that this was not the case then they are en- couraged to speak with us. If a mistake was made, at least there will be funds to make a correction. My only hope is that in the future, if damaging in- nuendos are going to be made against a committee, s()me attempt to substantiate them be made before they are published. The Right Direction By DANIELROSENFIEW For the past few years I have watched the tax committee, that all-powerful group in charge of dispensing funds to the student rllil activities, dole out nearly $800,000. I cannot think of anything that can be shown for the money. Traditionally, the tax com- mittee is blamed. They llave wasted. it and they have allotted it badly. They have lost it and otherwise managed to squander the funds-somehow. Indeed, they have, in past years, been guilty a£ their fair share of political games, mistakes, and unwise decisions. They have held grudges and helped favored groups. In short, the tax committee has not been ncted for ~eing overly angelic. Another year has started and, as us11al, the tax committee is under attack. They were late with the budgets. They did not give groups enough money. They were arbitrary- in their cutting of the budgets. These allegations are to a certain extent true, as the .committee admitted in a meeting held Monday, October 27. However, they were not thereto apologize, but rather, to explain how and why they had done the budget trimming and what was going to be possible in terms of funding for the rest of the year. According to the tax com- mittee, they were given a deadline by which time all budgets had to be approved. This deadline they met. In the process, they had to cut budgets totaling more than $300,000 to a maximum of $200,000 that they had to work with. With . the exception of the Social Com- mittee, a special case, all budgets were acted upon. At the meeting, . the tax committee announced that the surplus of $21,000 will be available to any club that can demonstrate reasonable need for additional funds. The reaction given the tax committee by representatives of the various activities was shortsighted, and extremely narrow minded. I was rather disappointed, though hardly surprised. People seemed not to understand that if necessary, they could apply for fwiher funding. They also seemed to believe that clubs should be funded based on past budgets. Even though the tax committee pointed out that this is not a legitimate basis for funding\ because what happened last year under a different ad- ministration bears no relation to the new administration. Further, as the tax conunittee tried to point out several times, there is only so much money to be allotted. There is not enough for all activities to be given as much as they would like to have. I am of the opinion that the tax committee is taking a long awaited and needed step in the proverbial \right direction.\ Faults they have (don't forget they are students too), but they are trying to deal with a thankless job In a reasonable manner. As for the $800,000 mentioned previously, I would remind you, my compatriots (courtesy of Prof. Berk), that although the tax committee hands out the funds, the clubs spend it. Perhaps those in charge of the clubs should consider carefully before they spend their budget, and certainly before they ask for more. DE.L\ VERY! ''DlS TlNC.T\VE CUI S \ 1\le..•\~

OONOOE-DIENSIS, October 29, 1981 ·Page 9 ConrnleJltary -- ' .. t. p•,vr ·-·· tb~aten tbe ealiber and ac- cessibility ·of higher education in this country. Pamela Vigliehno It Will Be Too late To the Editor: Students at independent universities cannot fight the trend of annual tuition in· creases-right'~ Right. Can they combat ever worsening in· · flation? N<~tJ:e~dly, But s~~deJ~t~ can .fjgb~~- .tg p~S(;lrve . ~tQ.d~ finanem~··.{lid· • progtal'n$ . ~la.~t make it pos$ib1e f()t burid'redS f!I thou$and~ t(} ,$tudy .at tl;lem chosen U'ni,ver$itY. If President Reagan succeeds in his. campaign pr(lmise to . drastically cut the federal budget~ many students. can ~ss their federally guarant~d loan or Pen giant~ .among · other loans and grants~ .goodbye. . \Given the large :outnber of loans U!sued in 1981 and. the conc_ur.rEmt debt service, it is likely no .. new loans . coull:l ·be • issued in 19~,u said Ne.:w York State Education Department Comm.issionerGordQn A.m.bach, speaking re.cently before a group of higher education u'l'he See you tb..ere, - The Social Committee Parkin~ Continued from page 1 • crime prevention services, increased preventative patrols, and going through buildings more often. When a vehicle is found illegally parked in a fire lane, it will be towed away im- mediately by a private com- pany at the owner's expense. In cases where illegally parked cars are not in a fire lane, an attempt will be made to find the owner before towing. The company charges thirty-five dollars for towing and seven dollars a day for storage. Unregistered vehicles which -?f',..,ll. G-<-~1. I A<v.-t. ·,t! Letters E-ditorials The Finance Comm.ittee Comments Answers About Budgets By P.ETER McCAFFREY I would like to take this op- portunity to respond to the commentary in the October 22 issue of Concordiensis entitled ''B11dget Cuts a Joke.\ The context of the article grossly misrepresented the abjectives of the Finance Committee and in that sense was irresponsible. 'rhe author bases much of the article on a listing of percentage cuts and from this concludes that they were of an \.arbitrary nature.\ What he failed to realize was that without a point of reference this type ef statistic is misleading. What I would like to suggest is that if there are any specific questions concerning an organization, to please contact me or make an appointment to meet with the committee through the Student Activities Office. The participation at the open finance meeting earlier in the week was encouraging and I would like to thank everyone who attended. I would also encourage continued com- munication and welcome constructive suggestions. Last week's article also in- clllded some misconceptions about the contingency fund It was mentioned that long range planning would be affected as a result of deliberately cutting back funds. It is important that I make this next point clear. The funding that each organization has received to • • ought to be registered will be fined fifty dollars. Any motor vehicle which receives five or more traffic and parking violations will be deregistered. Five thousand tickets were issued last year. According to Cllristopher Chadwick, \We'll probably double or triple that nwnber this year.\ Through c(}mmunity cooperation, he h()pes to reduce the growing nwnber of illegally parked cars. As he said, \Through com- munity cooperation we sllouldn't have a parking problem anymore.\ date is for the entire year in· eluding long range plans. The resulting $21,000 contingency fund will be used to cover WI· foreseen costs and various new funding requests that were not previously considered. It is not the intent of the Finance Committee to play \god as was hastily suggested, only to distribute the student activity money in a fair Tbe Cuts: - . and consistent manner. If an organization feels that this was not the case then they are en- couraged to speak with us. If a mistake was made, at least there will be funds to make a correction. My only hope is that in the future, if damaging in- nuendos are going to be made against a committee, some attempt to substantiate them be made before they are published. The Right Direction By DANIEL ROSENFIELD For the past few years I have watched the tax committee, that all-powerful group in charge of dispensing funds to the student run activities, dole out nearly $800,000. I cannot think of anything that can be shown for the money. Traditionally, the tax com- mittee is blamed. They have wasted it and they have allotted it badly. They have lost it and otherwise managed to squander the funds-somehow. Indeed, they have, in past years, been guilty of their fair share of political games, mistakes, and unwise decisions. They have held grudges and helped favored groups. In short, the tax committee has not been noted for being overly angelic. Another year has started and, as usual, the tax committee is under attack. They were late with the budgets. They did not give groups enough money. They were arbitrary- in their cutting of the budgets. These allegations are to a certain extent true, as the committee admitted in a meeting held Monday, October 27. However, they were not there to apologize, but rather, to explain how and why they had done the budget trimming and what was going to be possible in terms of funding for the rest of the year. According to the tax com- mittee, they were given a deadline by which time all budgets had to be approved. This deadline they met. In the process, they had to cut budgets totaling more than $300,000 to a maximllm of $200,000 that they had to work with. With the exception of the Social Com- mittee, a special case, all budgets were acted upon. At the meeting, . the tax committee announced that the surplus of $21,000 will be available to any club that can demonstrate reasonable need for additional funds. The reaction given the tax committee by representatives of the various activities was shortsighted, and extremely narrow minded. I was rather disappointed, though hardly surprised. People seemed not to understand that if necessary, they could apply for further funding. They also seemed to believe that clubs should be funded based on past budgets. Even thou·gh the tax committee pointed out that this is not a legitimate basis for funding, because what happened last year under a different ad- ministration bears no relation to the new administration. Further, as the tax: conunittee tried to point out several times, there is only so much money to be allotted. There is not enough for all activities to be given as much as they would like to have. I am of the opinion that the tax committee is taking a long awaited and needed step in the proverbial \right direction.\ Faults they have ! don't forget they are students too), but they are trying to deal with a thankless job in a reasonable manner. As for the $800,000 mentioned previously, I would remind you, my compatriots (courtesy of Prof. Berk), that although the tax committee hands out the funds, the clubs spend it. Perhaps those in charge of the clubs should consider carefully before they spend their budget, and certainly before they ask for more. DEL\ VERY! '' D\5 TlNC. T\V£ CUtS\ NE. '\

Page 10 · OONCORDlli1NSIS, October 89~ 1981· .. ·: . - \ . ' . ' ' . ' ' . ... ' . . . ' :. ' - . '. . . . :. . . ~rts & Culture I local Museum Discovered! e .0 <( \C \- ~ \C UJ >- .0 0 0 .c c. \Rolling Blue,\ by Werner Feibes, one of hundreds of exhibits pt the Schenectady Museum, just a short walk from campus. The/Schenectady Sytnphon y Orchestra The Schenectady SY.JDphony Orchestra will present ,Solo Clarinetist Thomas Gerbino in the second concert of the 1981-32 Season on Friday, November sixth. The concert will take place at 8:15p.m. at Proctor's Theater in downtown Schenectady. Thomas Gerbino is Principal Clarinet of the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra. He is a graduate of Mansfi.eld State College in Pennsylvania and of Ithaca College. Gerbino has appeared with the Albany Symphony, the Mohawk Valley Symphony, and the Capital Artists Opera Company. He is a member of the Northeast .. Symphonic Band · and the Adirondack Saxophone Quartet. He is on the faculty of the Greater Amsterdam School District and of the College of St. Rose, Albany. On the November sixth program, Thomas Gerbino will play the \Concerto No. ·1 in F minor for Clarinet and Orchestra\ by Carl Maria von Weber. The Schenectady Symphony Orchestra, now celebrating its forty-eighth year, will be conducted by Music Director Anthony Pez- zano. The Orchestra will offer \Overture to the School for Scandal, Op. No. 5\ by Samuel Barber; \Church Windows\ by Ottorino Respighi; and \Pic- tures at ·an Exhibition\ by Modest Mussorgsky. An important innovation for this concert will be the \Art Gallery\ theme. A series of slides of stained glass art will be projected in the theater as background .for \Church Windows.\ \Pictures at an Exhibition\ will be introduced by rare slides of the original Victor Hartmann paintings which inspired the Mussorgsky composition. The Hartmann slides are coming to Schenectady through the c.ooperation of the · Boston Symphony Orchestra. As far as area music researchers are able to determine, the up- coming concert will be the first time these slides have been shown at a public performance. Tickets for the Novemper sixth concert may be purchased at various Community Box Offices. For further in- formationabout ·, the Schenec- tady Symphony Orchestra, contact Mrs. John Rhodes, 1333 Wemple Lane, Schenectady, 374-0266. JOIN US: THE FEW. THE PROUD. €onror We Don't Ask For Experience We Give 11, You Won't Read It In A Book, You'll Live It! ! By BETSY MODEST Moon rock in Schenectady'! Excavation in Saratoga'! NASA on Nott Terrace? You probably never realized that aU of this and more can be found in our own college town. Up on a nearby hill, behind a few trees, lies the Schenectady Museum just waiting for you to discover it. Located on Nott Terrace Heights, the rnusetnn provides the community with a variety of exhibits and programs. It also houses the largest and most sophisticated public planetariwn within .a 100-mile radius of the Capital District. The present site of the Schenectady Museum was acquired in 1969 by a gift .from Mr. and Mrs. Henry Schaffer, but the musewn has history dated back to 1934. In that year, Arthus Jones, Director of Visual Education for the Schenectady School District, be:gan the collection as an experiment in visual education. He opened two empty classrooms of the Brandywine School and developed what he saw as a \concrete encyclopedia\ for the school children. Although it appeared that what· Jones created was merely a \school\ museum, he always had the intention of expanding the exhibition to a full fledged museum for the Schenectady community. .The \school\ museum was opened to the public in the evenings, and Jones' work was extremely well received. In 1938, the museum was chartered by the Education Department of the State of New York and it moved to the former County Almshouse on Steuben Street off of State Street. In the Almshouse, the rapidly growing museum could expand. The museum broke off from the school department in 1952 hiring its own first full-time director. In 1954, the first planetarium was modestly built in a square room in the center of the AlmshouSe and the museum purchased its first star projector. The dome was built with many thin strips of steel and was covered with an army surplus parachute. In 1966, because of a miscalculation, the Almshouse had to be torn down to make way for the Martin Luther King School. Fund raising drives were held to raise money for the founding of a new building and on September 19, 1969, the new facility on Nott Terrace Heights was dedicated. Prior to 1969, this site had been the athletic field for the Nott Terrace W.gh . School which was then locatep where \No Place Like Sam's'' is situated now. The musewn could have been built on the present Schenectady Police Station property which was much more valuable .but too · costly for the museum's budget. Today, the museum staff }lopes to improve the lot and eXpects to build a landscaped lighted walkway from Nott Terrace Up to the musewn. The View from the hill is a pic- turesque one, overlooking the city hall's gold dome .and the Mohawk River beyond. Carol Hudson, the Public Information Coordinator, is excited about the .museum's progress and its future. In establishing the museum on Nott Terrace Heights, she emphasizes that the musettm, in its hard work, \will have made an asset out of a liability.\ There have been martY problems but the musewn and its collection survive. Following completion of the present building's basement, the collection, which had been stored in various places a.round the city, were brought together . and stored in the -basement. Schenectady had one of its notorious rainstorms, flooding the basement, and immersing much of the collection in muddy water. Stripped of their labels, the rocks and · minerals collection Widerwent six years of restoration following this disaster. The museum's exhibits focus on art, history, science, and technology. Traditional and contemporary art is exhibited by local and world known ar- tists. Recently, the museum housed the works of Picasso, Escher, and Whistler. The museum is especially proud of the Marjorie Bradt Foote Costume Collection which is apparently the most extensive collection in the northeast outside of New York City. It consists mainly of 18th and 19th century women's clothing. Unfortunately, the costume collection is not exhibited year round. Periodically, special exhibits are put together. For example, two years ago, a collection ·of wedding gowns spanning two centuries were on display. The programs offered to the community by the museum are extensive. There are tours, lectures) courses, and workshops. A nature reserve, covering 94 acres of. Niskayuna near Lock 7, with marked trails Union College Mountebanks Presents: Opening November 3rd: Based on the work of Anton Chekhov, Q this play has been called one of Simon's best. THE GOOD D·OCTOR A Comedy by Neil Simon Directed by Andy Levine Show Dotes: Nov. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 Coming Later in November: It's the 1960's. They're strong enough to change the -world, hut are they strong enough to change themselves? It's time to discover. MOONCHILDREN A Comic play by Michael Weller Directed by Natalie Barondes Show Dates: Nov. 13, 14, 15, 19, 20, 22 All shows in the Nott Tickets for all shows available now in the Nott Memoria I Box Office and the Student Activities Booth in Carnegie 370-6153 for reservations $2.00 w-Union I D and a published guide is a facHity of the museum . Museum tours include trips to other museums home and abroad. This year the museum plans a trip to Spain. In the music department, the museum co-sponsors the International Festival of Chamber Music with .Union College, which this year consists of 11 concerts from September · to June. The museum also has its own radio station, SMARA (Schenectady Museum Amateur Radio Association). Several' special events are sponsored throughout the yea,r. Presently the 11th annual \Haunted House\ is in progress until October 31st. In the spring, food and dance of different countries are exhibited at the \Festival of Nations . ., Other celebrations include a crafts fair, Christmas party, and celebration of National Astronomy Day. Perhaps the most impressive of the museum's features, is the new planetariwn. The 30-foot dome is located in the middle of the circular gallery and provides an excellent stage for sky theatre., The planetarium is equipped with a new Spitz A3P' star projector and auxiliary equipment which can project over 1,300 stars. Motions of the sun, moon, and five visible planets can be reproduced for any historical date . including present and future. \Star- bound'' is the feature presen· '\ tation until the end of November, and it focuses on man's recent discoveries of quasars, pulsars, and black holes. Beginning on December 3, \A New Star Over Bethlehem\ will show through Christmas. Union is involved with the museum through the . music series and exhibitions. Student and faculty art is regularly found in the museum's galleries. The museum strongly encourages the college's par- ticipation in its programs. Students are encouraged to come and browse. Given two weeks notice, the museum staff will formulate a special planetarium presentation for an interested group. Third floor Fox South is already planning such a trip for November. There · is more to say and more to see at the Schenectady · Museum, but you'll have to discover it yourself. The museum is in walking distance of campus, so take advantage of what Schenectady has to offer. You'll be glad you did ATTENTION! --Do you enjoy seeing' your ·• name in print?. --Do you like to write? --Are you creative? (Face it, you are.) · • --Do you ever write fiction? : --Do you draw well? ·. --Do you need something else • to put on your resutne? ·, Listen, have we got a dea I . for you! The Arts and Culture Section can use your help. No contributi.on is too sma II. : Jump on this chance. Call Bob ·. 374-4898, or Roberta 370-6499. I I J Ion: wh• ma spo gui mic soli Wi' mo '8n( the sa• pla beJ Ex pr< Nu rer spc ass F the ml co nu 19l jac no lo<

...... / I ! a 1. :o .d n 1e .n al ;h lr n. te io ly io re r. a.l ss g, nt 1e er ts td al ~e lle ot of 1d or is P' ry iCt he 1le or ng lr- iO- of on of ck 1er er gh he ;ic ~nt ~ly I' S (ly lr- ts. to wo a.ff lal an 1or ng nd dy to he ICe :of er. it, n? se 1al re \lo II. ob 19. CJONOOBDIENSIS, l1ctober !9, 19$1 ~rts & Culture Album Review: Hall's All of the Above By S. VAN NESS Jehn Hall is yet another tn the long .series of roclt-pop artists who almost, but never .quite, made it into the national spotlight. As vocalist and lead guitarist with Orleans in the mid 70's, Hall wrote a handful of solid pop tunes, such as \Dance With Me,\ that were moderately successful - but he rhythm and arrangement there are points when the cuts beg for a strong.Joe Walsh slide guitar lick. Hall ls ably suP'\ ported by his band, consisiting of Bob Leinack on keyboards, Eric Parker on drums, and John Troy on bass. The sound is sparse, crisp and very well controlled'-the members of the band are obviously professionals; However, despite all of the professionalism and com- ~age 11 ·and Orleans couldn't maintain the momentum and the band sank back into obscurity, playing the- bar-club circuit before Rallleft in the late 70's. Except for a stint as a co- producer of the MUSE No- Nukes concert, Hall has remaiiled out of the public spotlight, quietly writing and assembling here in New York. album, All ·of the Above. The album contains no surprises; it is a solid, unadventureous, competently produced roam- stream rock album. Although Hall shows some New Wave influences, the majority of the music and lyrics show his un- mistakable imprint -- his gravelly vocals and tightly controlled lead playing dominate the album. The songs . range from soft pop tunes reminiscent of Orleans such as \Clouds\ and \Star in Your Sky\ to the Cars' style \You SWie Fooled Me~\ but the majority ofthe cuts remind one very strongly of tbe Eagles, especially ''Crazy (Keep. On Fallin)\ and \The Touch.\ Content wise, the songs are unmistakably Hall's, but ---petence that has gone into All of the Above, it is still .somewhat dull and uninspired. Hall has the technique and experience to become· a major artist, but without the essential spark. of imagination, which All of the Above sadly lacks, he is doomed to remain just another .face in the ranks of the has-beens and the also-rans in America's FM- wasteland. Musi,c From Marlboro Hall has recently re-entered the music world with a new -structurally, the cuts resemble later Eagles' songs in terms of • • • Coach ByP.L. G. The tiger mascot was badly faded on Coach's jacket. How many games had it seen? He could tell you ex:actly the number of wins and losses since 1958. The royal blue color of the jacket, the school color, seemed not so royal any more. As he walked through the locker room before the first game of the new season, the freshmen were confused by the reactions of the older players. Lockers weren't being tackled, pads and rolls of tape weren't sailing through the air. Coach didn't like what he was seeing, so he left and went to find his seat. On the way out of the locker room, he turned and said to the high school students behind him, \Give 'em hell, NEEDED I BASSIST, GUITARIST, TROMBONISTS, FOR JAZZ ENSEMBLE For Information Call: . , Brad--393-7222 Kevin--370-6800 THIS WEEK ON WRUC DON'T MISS IT!! I -Saturday at 10: 00--Saturda y Night Concert Series Presents: The P!iychedelic Furs An hour of music and conversation with the Columbia Record artists. -Morning Jazz with Melissa Beth--Tuesday mornings 10:30- 12:30 -WRUC is looking for talented people to design a WRUC logo. The logo must contain the fOllowing: WRUC, 90.9 FM, Schenectady, NY •. The due date is Nov. 10! All entries become the property of WRUC and the best one will receive a cash prize. All entries should be placed in the logo contest envelope at WRUC. For further details please see Nancy Raisman or Lat'ry Koved. GOOD LUCK!! '-The WR UC Ex.ecutive Board, sportscStsters, DJ's, and newscasters would like to welcome all of the new DJ's, sportscasters and newscasters to the staff! HAPPY WRUCK lNG! -WRUC is looking for people to help update the record listing. If you have a knowledge of computers and like to type, please sign up at WRUC! GOING TO THE GO-GO'S • • • men.\ He walked, automatically, to the player's bench where he · found the assistant trainer and the cooler of Gatorade. He didn't hear his wife calling to him from the stands. Coach Samson was surprised to see him at the bench. Samson knew what was coming, and out of respect he stood and listened while Coach spoke, \The way you gotta beat them is with the short pass. They got this tackler. Brown, who's a big senior and'll kill little Hen· dr\icks. You've been telling Hendricks to work with the weights haven't you? Don't try foF field goals, Stevens can't kick worth shit . . . \ Coach Samson nodded politely. Stevens practiced all summer and kicked nine out of ten at yesterday's practice When the opening toss was announced for the start of the game, Coach Samson in- terrupted, \Thank you for the advice sir, but the game's about to start.\ Then Coach did the hardest thing he ever had to do in his life; he went into the stands to sit and watch the game . (CNB)-Five distinguished artists associated with Ver- mont's Maroboro Music Festival will appear in concert at a p.m. Tuesday, Nov. 3, in the Union College Memorial Chapel. This is the first of three Music from Marlboro concerts this season, sponsored by Union College and the Schenectady Museum as part of their chamber music series. Tickets are $6 and $3 for students and are available at the Schenectady Museum, all Community Box Office locations, and at the door. A series subscription is also available. To open the 17th season of the Marlboro touring program, which extends the summer festival's · activities into the regular concert season, the November 3rd performance will include varied chamber music selections by Mozart, Schoenberg, and Dvorak. The featured artists will be Daniel Phillips and Lucy Stoltzman, violinists; Kim Kashkashian and Karen Dreyfus, violists; and Bonnie Hampton, cellist. These musicians, all noted soloists and chamber artists, are taking time from their in- dividual concert activities to present a two-and-a-half-week, 10-city tour. Daniel PhilU,ps, who began studying violin at th,e ~ge of five, has made orchestral and recital appearances around the country that have earned him plaudits as one of the most outstanding violinists of his ***************************** As the years unwind before my eyes And my thoughts rush on like racing cars I reach out and tryto grasp a floating memory. A jug of wine once passed around a fire And the feel of cold beer poming down by the throat The softness of new born babies And the heat of tar on the soles of sun-burned feet. Watching my brother drive off to college And rem~bering him learning to ride a bike. Memories, reaching for them, Holding them for a moment. And then putting them away For lonely bus rides And rainy;.days. ~ ' by R.R. ***************************** generation. He has performed in New York with the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, and he participates in numerous chamber music festivals in addition to Marlboro. Lucy Stoltzman, a member of the Cameron String Quartet, has taught violin and viola at the University of California at Santa Cruz and was acting associate concertmaster of the San Francisco Symphony for the 1980-81 season. She is married to clarinetist Richard Stoltzman. -- Violist Kim Kashkashian has performed extensively as a . soloist and chamber music artist in this country and abroad. She returns to Ger- many this year for a solo tour that will include performances of the Bartok Concerto. Karen Dreyfus also a violist is a graduate of the Curtis Institute of Music. A frequent participant in the Casals, Aspen, and Marlboro music festivals, Dreyfus toured Europe in 1979 with the Kasimir Quartet. Cellist Bonnie Hampton, long active in chamber music, is a member of the Naumburg Award-winning Francesco Trio. She has made guest ap- pearances with the Budapest, Griller, Lenox, Guarneri, and J uilliard string quartets and has studies with Pablo Casals. For more information on Music from Marlboro, call the Schenectady Museum at 382- 7890.

Page 12 b • . . u 'l. \' ·: ' . . ~,.., ,J.o fJ .-'- ,....._~ ·\'\. .. What's Happening This Week . Friday October 30 Photography-S.L.-10~5 P.M. Tri City Folk Dancers-Arts 202-7:45 p.m. Varsity Hockey vs. N .E. College-Achilles Rink-8 p.m. Film SS016-7: 30, 10 p.m. Mountebanks--STAGE Il-- 7:30 p.m. Saturday, October 3l Varsity Foot ball vs. Williams- -Football Field-1:30 p.m. Film-SS016-7: 30-10 p.m. Sunday November 1 Big Brothers-Big Sister-S.L.- -12:30-3:30 p.m .• Catholic Mass-S.L.-7:30-9 p.m. Campus Protestant Ministry- S.L.-5:30-7:15 p.m. Film-SS016-7:30 and 10 p.m. Monday November 2 Photog1·aphy-S. L.-10-5 p.m. Laser Photo Exhibit with Student Affairs-S.L.-10-4 p.m. Glee Club Rehearsal--Arts 202-6:15-10:15 p.m. Mountebanks-Fourth Floor Lounge-7:30-11 p.m. Student Forum Meeting-- Con£. Room A--7;10 p.m. Tuesday November 3 Photography~S.L.-10-6 p.m. Dance Workshop-Arts 202-5- 7 p.m. Outing Club-S.L.-7 :30-8:30 p.m. Fencing Club-Arts 202-8-11 p.m. Museum-College Concert- M.C. 8 p.m. Mountebanks-Stage 117: 30-11 p.m. Wednesday November 4 Photography-S.L.-10-5 p.m. Union College Christian Fellowship--Fourth Floor Lounge-4:30-5:30 p.m: ·· Band Practice-M. C.-fi-9 p.m. Career Center-S.L.-7 -10 p.m. Scuba Diving Club-SS012--7·9 p.m. Chess Club--Fourth Floor Lounge--8: 30 p.m. Mountebanks Conf. Room A- 7:30-11 p.m. Film-88016-7, 9, 11 p.m. Thursday November 5 Biology Club Conf. Room A- 4:30-5:30 p.m. Dance Clu~.L.-7-9 p.m. Mountebanks-Stage II--7: 30- 11 p.m. Glee Club--Arts 2()2--6: 15- 10:15 p.m. Photography-S.L.-10-5 p.m. I.E.E.E.--S.L.--11 :30-1:30 p.m. OONCORDIENSIS, Oc.tober 29, 1981 T-You've got acute phase.-M Cindy--Gidget loves Hoon· doggle. Veg, Thanks for a great year. · Try to stop thinking so much. E.W.P. BlackHole-Hi Swe.atheart! I love you. 10-0 N uxvomica to you too! Boobulii--Would yGu nurse you baby in class? I love you. Your Marna DON'T RING MY DOOR- BELL TOO HARD!! Share--All: How about a furburger to go? 316D-Hi Guys! See you at the party tomorrow. Love, _ Jo My Big Brother, You're a terrific guy. Have a great year.- ·Your Friend Forever Lori: Where were you? Maybe next: weekend _ .. ? ? Puppy Pepperoni: No pro b with Joe. Enjoy! Enjoy! Catch ya later. Pup Kliiiip, This week-end was great! Maybe we can do it again sometime. Love Bunny. P.S. Don't drink; any more purple stuff and leave rny apples alone! No. 4: Thanx. Nice time. Later, Pup. Chi Psi: Great parties! When's the nex:t? Party Goers AJA-I Love You, 'Too. Maresi Sherri-Poomkin shall out live us all-P.F. and J.B. Debbie, Who says we never get personals-Have a great day=Jodi and the rest of SDT Gary--Happy 9 Month Anniversary. Love Jodi Jack: z-z-z-z-z Jean and Marcelle: Wings Anyone? Runt--Forgive me for Saturday night. I didn't have your phone number but I do have some toilet paper. I love you. Love Runt II - Sandi: A-A No. 339 March 20th. Chula Vista or Bust!! No Mexican Taxis though. Love Tracy. 209-0ne of these things is better than the other-s. One of these things doesn't want to belong. THE MAID To the Reluctant Nlllls, Rynus and Mary: You'll reform the convent yet! Love~ Me. All those interested in 209 Seward, informal rush will begin this Fri. Oct. ~0. Sign up in Mike Andolina's office. Pumps preferred, maid service ac- cepted. Seward Love Due to conflict of interest, 209 Seward Slomb-on-Inn is now accepting applications for maid position. Light kitchen, bathroom and living room work eneral ho11se overhaul. e Ices Own pumps required. Seward Love _ Ann-Been thinkin' bout ya. How ya doin'? Oh yeah. The 5 that belong Slornboids: NICE to have a bllilch of P-U-M-P\S pumps .. Wendalloids--Psyched for that PJ party, oh yeah. Slom- hoid Love Happy loss of virginity. We're on top of you-Seward Love Aimee--Thanks for calling last Sun. We've been thinkin' bout ya, oh yeah-209 · Randi-Congrats. W~ missed ya this weekend, on•;·,yeah 209 Luv GOOD LUCK ON YOUR DATE ANN--LOVE EASY, GRAVEL, FLABS, TOT AND GOOD AND PLENTY Janet and Sheryl-Thanks for doin' that shoppi:IT', oh yeah We love ya! Seward Love To the JTRQ-Have a TRBS. We love that ONHB! Love AKSFJR Fran- Thanks a bunch for baking those cookies for our boyfriends. Your best friends Kim-Miss those Studio days, oh yeah. We'll bake cookies for your boyfriend, oh yeah. COMING' UP SOON AT THE SLOM-On-INN (209 Seward) A ''What to wear when the in- vitation says informal\ Party. Be alert. (The world needs more of them.) Fran-You really handled that crisis well, oh yeah. We're proud. The Sleazes Marion-stop chucking your empties. We live in a Hi-Qual house. Seward Love Jan-Youdeserveten bananas for Sunday night. xoxo C.W.-Open your eyes girl! Somebody loves youJ Tri- Tuna- I want my flag? Sam R.D.-Quit taking out your • sexual frustrations out on me! : . Go find a girL · T.-I'm still waiting for you :to :: visit. D. • · '' '. '' $50,000.00 Reward For:· McDonald's game stamp: No. ; : 661. Leave name and TEL'· Rumber in Box 2001. Pup- The Haunted House was: : nice but I would have preferred.: • going through with you!·! Lovei • You! Ted. ;, TB: Guess what l'tni thinking? (Get your mind out of:· the gutter-maybe} 1 WH..-What's all this ab<Jut: · Friday the 13th? -BB Dear Steven: Guess What?:. This one has your real name! J am not trying to hide anything. 1 , really love you. Rachel. · I' New Hartford Heart-throb ;· , Happy Birthday! Love, 253 F Boppin' Beetle, Happy lOth r L.B., Patty Duke and Dody. · H. R.H.J. and T .H. Thanks you guys! 253 F Margo, With a magic in· cantation, the casting of a SJlel1, I send my love to you today· within this personal! The Wizard Schmoo-I guess we won the bet. Congradulations! YFPNI Hi Honey-Can't wait to have. you here with me! Washington may love ya, but I sure love you more Congratulations Paul K. on winning this weeks Eaglebead Award. SFDS P.-What's this about five. girls, a body rash, and sman · mouthing a prof! Personals submitted are printed according to space restrictions. Personals are cmt arbitrarily by the printer, N()T the editors. We apologize if :your personal was cut this week and encourage you to try again. ·oq Cf.Qe Greek frolft ADPhiParty 'l1h ere will be a Halloween Part:v this Saturday night at the Alpha Delta Phi Fraternity. Tickets will be one dollar in advance and at the door. A door .prize wiU be given for the best costume. Be there or he square! nu Party De'lta Upsilon's 112th annual Halloween Party. Saturday, Oct. 31. There will be two live bands, beer, Pjlnch, aqd door prizes for the best costumes. A <!mission is free, everything is free! · Delta Bash Tomorr{)W night, Oct. 30, Tri- Delta will be having their first All Campus Party of Fall term. Tl!e party starts at 10:30 and beer- and punch will be served. Don't miss it-it'll be great. (MOO HA HA!) Sigma Chi Party There will be a Hat Party toni~ht at 10:00 at Sigma Chi. Think of some imaginative head c<Jverings. All are welcome. IN THE LIFE . ()F ll'A.N DENISOVICH \Memorably successful, hauntingly EFFECTIVE.\ -William Wolf, Cue \BEAUTIFUL careful depiction wonderfully played.\ -Penelope G!IIUJtl, T'he New Yorker Wednesday, Nov. 4_ at7,9&11 in SS 016 - '''( Mt wi K~: at a1 1: sl Vi w F n a o: f< 1: F n f: VI a

. CONOORDIENSIS, October !9, 1981 Page 18 General Nottices The Philo~phy Forum will meet Wednesday, November 4. The topic will be 1 \Letting Babies Die.\ repaired by an e~q~erlenced,. licensed technician. Call 39:J;. 8962. Prof. Harrison ::M. Trice, SchoQl of Industrial and Labor :Relations, Cornell Ur1iversity will present a ce>lloqwum on \'Perspectives ol'l 'WI)rk, the Labor Market and Alcohol Abuse\ on 7h'ursday, November 5, 1981-3':45 P.M. This will be held in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. Volunteers needed to visit homebound elderly for one hour per week. If interested, please contact: Friendly Visitor's Program of the Htull.an Ser- vices Planning Cour1cil at: ( 518 )-372-3395 and ask br Joyce. The Dr. Robertll ... oddard ScbolarshiJI Intellectual Cabaret presents \Genetic Engineering,\ Monday, November 2. Speakers will be Professors Butzel, Kaminsky, and Tobiessen. The National S).:)acte Club will award a $3,500 s~bola1ship for Stereo .Repairs: Stereos the academic year 1912-1983. ll T~e OtQer fr~11t · French Table Please join your friends and acqu~intancesat a French table at the Pub every 'I'uesday 12:30- 1 :30-It's a wonderful way to sharpen your French con- versational skills and a relaxing way to visit in '\un petit coin de France a Union\. Spanish Table Professors Diez-Herencia, Ihrie and Vinick cordially invite all Spanish-speaking members of the community to join them for lunch and conversation at 12:30 on Tuesday, Nov. 3, in the Pub. All levels invited. Gay Discussion Group Gay Discussion Group meeting to discilss upcoming films and ideas. All are welcome. Monday, November 2 at 7 p.m. in HU Lounge. For 1st ACT: JOE UVEGAS more information, Call Dana, . · 6860. Spring Break '82 After a cold winter in Schenectady, how d()eS Florida sound? 7 days and 7 nights in . Daytona Beach -with students from Union and Skidmore Colleges, March Hl-2:8, 1982. The price is $239 f<H round trip · express transportation on a lavoratory equtiJp~d, Air Conditioned Delu::xe motoF- coach, 7 nights at Guality Inn Reef (tax included). Deposit $50 (includes $25 Darna~e Deposit) must be in to :Mrs. :Mara at Student Affairs by Deeember 4, 1981. Capacity is 48 people-first come, first servEd basis. For more informatio11 call: Steve Brown at 370-665~ or :1\frs. Mara at 370-6118. JACK DONAHUE 2nd ACT: ANDY LEV·INE & CO. MC: . RENEE HABER ATTENTION SENIORS!! last days for senior PHOTOS Today & Tomorrow Sign up in the Student Activities Office for appointments between l-4p.rn. • Ices The scholarship is in memory of Dr. Robert H. Goddard, America's rocket pioneer. The award is given to stimulate the interest of talented students in the opportunity to advance scientific knowledge through space research and exploration. The 1982 Award Winner will be ·introduced to the nation's leaders in science, government and industry at the GDddard Memorial Dinner to be held March 19, 1982. For more in- formation, call 296-4690. The Department of Modern Languages and The Minerva Committee invites you to the conclusion of the Fall Hispanic Film Series: \The Green Wall'' 1970; Armando Roble~ Godoy on Thursday, October 29 at 7:30 .p.m.; SS016. A meeting for all students interested in the possibility of being part-time interns in· the state legislature will be held at 4:20on Wednesday, November 4 in S.S. 115. Twenty internships will be arranged for the winter- spring terms as part of PS 76-78, Legislative Observers. FOR SALE: Conn Tenor Trombone with F-attachment. Good condition. Phone 346-0945. Caree:r Happen·i·ngs \The Campus Interview,\ a 3- part videotape series on em• ployment interviewing, will be shown on Friday, November 6 at the Career Center. The tapes are: Part- l--Int erview Preparation; Part 11-DThe Interview; and Part III-- Interview Follow-up. Students may stop in anytime between 9:00am and 4:00 pmto view the tapes, which will be run con- tinuously. · Ad Roc Committee on Tenureship Established An Ad Hoc Committee has been convened to determme the tenurability of Professor Hans C. Ohanian of the Department ·Of Physics. All students, faculty, and others who wish to contribute to this evaluation are urged to COf!9l1Unicate with any member of the Committee, Professors William Fairchild, .Filadelfo . Panlilio, Ennis Pilcher, or Robert Sharlet Chairman. ' OOffil~®Inl (OO~a~~~ ~@~U£\L ~ffilrniUIT~~ rr~nts: Tic¥s ~5 eadt or -'to fur tablu. f 10 -fOrmal lJ..css )? )f\ CASH BRR 1Tc.ke.ts on sale a+ S+uden+ Ach\ities \boc.rth ·,., Carne,s\e UNION COLLEGE FilM COMMITTEE PRESENTS: The King and I w-Deborah Kerr, Yul Brynner & Rita Moreno Oct. 30, 31 and Nov. 1 at 7:30 & 10:00 in SS 016 •

Page 14 OONCORDIEN818, October $9, 1981 Spikers as they win the NE Tourney. X-C Victorious By TRISH MORIARTY This past Saturday, the women's cross country team easily defeated teams rrom Albany State and RPI to cap- ture the Capital District Cross Country Championships. The cold, windy day seemed much warmer to the women when it became apparent that they had captured five of the top eight places and were presented with the winner's trophy. The trophy is a new addition this year, and will pass from team to team as the title changes in the future_. Union runner Inge Stockman trailed behind an Albany State harrier for the first half mile of the Central Park course, _ but was quick to capture the lead and retain it for the remainder of the race. Finishing second and third and just one second apart, were Union's Danielle Chernaik and Joan O'Connor. Seventh and eighth were cap- tured by Sue Stopera and Janice Glidder, ensuring Union's victory. Rounding out Union's finishers was Sherri Weitzen. Commenting on the women's victory, Men's team member Dave Dellehunt said \The women were really stacked.\ On Saturday the women will ~ · travel to Albany State to _g compete in the Albany ~ Invitational, one of their largest 1-: races all year. a: Union Sticker Mary McGrath Stickers- End Optilllistic By KATHY BENTLEY \How do we feel?\ \We feel GOOD!\ This familiar cry is heard echoing over the astroturf before every women's field hockey game, However, it is to be heard no more this year, as this awesome team ended its official season on Saturday with a 0-2 loss to Wells. The fierd hockey team had a tough schedule this fall, as is reflected in their 2-9-1 record. Union tackled very competitive teams like Smith and Vassar; Hartwick, an outstanding team, ranked third in the nation, was dominated by Union for most of the game, which ended in the Dutchwomen's defeat, 1-3. On Oct. 15, our players beat Skidmore 2-1, and followed with a 3-2 win over Siena. · Coach Marty Morrison found that the new astroturf did not give Union the expected home advantage. On away games reaction times to the ball on grass were slower for . Union. Adjustment from grass to turf was easier for other teams than the opposite adjustment for the Union players. The University of Rochester, the only opposing team with a horne astroturf field, encountered similar problems. Neither bumpy grass playing fields nor rainy weather dampened the enthusiasm of the Dutchwomen. Union field hockey will really miss its seniors, Kirsten Peterson and Lisa Stern (both co-captains), next year. Lisa Stern was an outstanding player during her four years at Union. She was a steady and reliable defensive player who helped the defense form a cohesive unit. Kirsten Peterson improved greatly this year and worked hard both in practices and games. She contributed strong support ~o~ the forward line and createa many goal-scoring op- portunities. The junior varsity team (0-6 record) improved a great deal over the season; more so than any other team Marty Morrison has coached. Considering the team's lack of experience (six JV starters had never played, previous to Union) they did very well. Coach Morrison and the field · hockey team are looking for- ward to next year. It is hoped that some new forward line players will bring more speed and a sustained attack to Union's game. Qualification for States, which has become more difficult since the move of some Div. II schools to Div. III, is next year's goal. Meanwhile, congrats to Union field hockey on a well-played season. UPCOMING WOMEN'S SPORTS VOLLEYBALL: 10-30 ·Queens C. Tourney 11-4 Sage, Oneonta 11-10 West Point 11-13 States CROSS COUNTRY: 10-31 Albany lnvy 3:00 A 4:00 A 7:00 H A Netters End Well By CATHY GI~FORD Union's women tennis team finished their 1981 season this past weekend in Rochester at the State Tournament. Representing Union were J\llie Miller (6-4), Randi Ribakove (6- 5), Rita: Lindenberg (3-8), Alissa Calabria (6-0), and the doubles team (4-0) of Linda Esposito and Karen Lena. The squad entered the tournament with a 6-5 record, their best in 6 years under first year coach Leslie Arakelian. -At Rochester, Julie Miller equalled last year's per- formance (4-2) at the States by besting Postdam, 6-3, 6-2, and Oswego 6-0, 6-3, before dropping a match to Army 6-3, 6-1. In her consolation rounds, Miller defeated Cortland, 6-1, 6-4, and Iona 7-5, 6-4, before losing to RIT 6-1, 7-5. Overall she posted another 4-2. record,. and was UniOn's outstanding player. Alissa Calabria and Rita Lindenberg combined together to defeat Iona's doubles team 6· 1, 7-6 in their opening round but dropped their next two matches to RIT 6-1, 6-3,. and to Potsdam 6-1, 7-5. Karen Lena and Linda Esposito, Union's number o~e doubles team, dropped their opening match to Iona 5-7, 6-3, 6- 2, won their consolation match over Queens 6-0, 6-2, and lost to Vassar's number three team 4- 6, 6-4, 6·2. Senior Randi Ribakove dropped her two matches in singles competition to Buffalo, 6•3, 6-2 and to Stony Brook, 6·2, 3-6, 6-3. Overall, Women's Tennis had a Winning season, they have great outlook for next year with only two seniors (Randi Ribakove and Pam Viglielmo) _graduating, and a base of freshlllen Esposito, Golden, and Lena to build on. VB Keeps Title By CATHY GIF·FORD This past weekEnd, Union College's Volleyball squad successfully defended their first place position in tlte Northeast Invitational Volleyball Tour- nament, hosted ath:()me, for the second year in a row. The Dutchwomen split a tri-match With a win over Skiclmore 15-4, 15-3, and a loss to Siena 12 .. 15, 15- 11, il-15 on October 21, in preparation for the tourney. A very .Spirit~d squad, led by Amy Hinshaw, avenged losses' to Pace (15.:3, 15-9), Vassar{15-3, 15-1) and Williams (4-15, 15- U, 15-13), suffered this yea•r. In the championship garne against Williams, the women were · helped by . the excellent net · play · of Alicia Granlund, Laura Berrish, and Amy Hinshaw. A major turning point in their win was caused by an injury to William's captain Anne Dancewicz, forcing her out of the match. Union kept their momentum and handed Williams a second place trophy. The squad also defeated J3ryn Mawr 15-11, 16-14, and suffered aloss to Wellesley 15-12, 9-15, 4- 15. The overall tournament record for Union was .four wins and one loss raising the team's overall record to nine wins and ten losses. The Most Valuable Player of the Tournament was awarded to Union's Brenda Hugick, and -her teammate Natalie Stone made the All- 'l'ournament Squad. Congratula~ions to the whole team for excellent play. The team will travel to Albany on Oc-tober 28th, and then to Queen's College on October 30- 31 for another tournament, where they will meet the West Point, Queens, New Hampshire, Mansfield, Lehman and Con- necticut among. other teams. With the spirit and momentum that they now have, they should give a strong showing at Queens. Good Luck! UNION Women's Sports Results Week ending 10-26 FIE L D HOCKEY: (record 2-9-1} 10-23 Rochester 1, Union 0 10-24 - Wells 2, Union 0 TENNIS: (Team Season Record: 6-5) VOLLEYBALL: {record 9-10) 10-24 N E Volleyba II Tourney Union f.in ished 1st out of 6 teams CROSS COUNTRY: . 10-24 - Capital District Tourney Union 19, R Pl36, Siena 0, Albany 0 SOCCER: (record 0-6) 10-22 RPI2,Union0 ' . ,,.,,/,:t~- Karen lena Is aft-er that ba II! - T the sop) MilJ Ne'li hel1 F ~ Uni elm pos dec bri.J con fim itsE Uni in ma 'I fen mi: ble ag< too re<

in pt y. 's st e, OONOORDIENSIS, Qctober 29, 1981 Page 115 .e. 0 .!:.' a. ~l ri I '' ',[' : ~ Dave Dellehunt takes the turn. Cross Country Dis·appointed This past Satllrday the Union College men's cross country team had one .of itS most disappointing performanceS; of the season. Siena, Albany State and RPI proved to be too much for the Dutclunen to handle as Union registered a last place finish in the Capital District Meet. Captain Ed Arnheiter was competing in his first meet since he was in1ured but, still managed to post a new school record for l,Jnioil's five mile course with a time of 25:58. Unfortunately, Ed's record time was only good enough to earn him an eighth place finish. Dave Dellehunt also recorded a personal best with a time of 26:17 for thirteenth place. Denny \Sid\ Contois was the third Union harrier to cross the line; Contois turned in another consistent performance with a twenty-seven minute effort. John Casale was the . next Dutchman in 29:15. Rounding out the varsity were Paul \Hosey\ Palaszewski and Mark Arienti in 29:23 and 29:48 respectively. Next Monday, the Outchmen will be traveling to the \Big Apple\ to compete in the IC4A's which is being held in Van Cortland Park. On a final note, the men would like to take this opportllllity to congratulate the women's team on their effort which led to their victory in the Capital District Meet. Good job ladies, you've worked hard and you deserve it! J.V. Soccer and a final score of 1-o. The junior varsity team had had an exceptional but chaotic start to their season with only a week of practice before the first game and trouble finding a coach, the team was still able to win their first five games. The main reason for this surprising start, was the acquiring of Union graduate and former- varsity soccer player, Peter Stuckerman. Going by his nickname of Sticker, rather than the title of coach, he created a spirited feeling throughout the entire team. Athlete of the Week . - ' The Union Junior Varsity soccer team capped off a respectable 6-2 season with a 1-0 upset over Hartwick College this past week. The Union Rooters, who were 1-5-1 last year, looked forward to this last game with an intense fervour against the New York State soccer power. Led by the in- spirational play of Rob Quisterm the J. V. hooters fought for and gained a one to nothing .advantage in the first half of play. After a Dutchman shot was blocked by a Hartwick defender, Drexel Brooks picked up the rebound and at the top of the penalty area--eighteen yards out-blasted a rocket by the Hartwick goalkeeper. The intensity of the game increased, · with the calls of many aggressive fouls, and even the issuing of four yellow cards-all the visitors. The stingy Union defense, however, held off the Hartwick attack in the second half, for their fourth shut-out, Unfortunately, this feeiing did not last throughout the entire season, as the J. V. hooters dropped two close one to n<Jthing battles. Even though both games were matred by- poor refereeing, the team was outplayed. After the latter- game, the team met at the Skellar and revived the lost feeling, and ended the season on a triumphant note. By MICHAEL SHARP This week's Miller Athlete of the Week hDnors ·go to sophomore tennis player Julie Miller. Her performance in the New York State Tournament held on the 23rd and 24th in Rochester's Mid-Town tennis Club ensured her honors. \\' During the 1980 tournament Julie became the first woman tennis player from Union to win an opening round match. She finished the tournament with a Football Preview Williams College will invade Union this week as the Dut- chmen continue their quest to post their best record in over a decade. Coach Joe Wirth's team brings a 3-2-1 :rpark into the contest and needs one win in the final three games to assure itself of at least a .500 season. Union's last winning record was in 1970 when it posted a 5-4 mark. The Dutchmen's young of: fensive team made numerous mistakes last week as Union blew an 18-7 halftime lead against Trinity. The Bantams took advantage of four fumble recoveries, 13 quarterback sacks, two interceptions and an untimely pass interference penalty to record a 25·18 vic- tDry ~ It was the first time this season that Union had lost a game after taking a balftime advantage. Williams holds a 53-15-4 ad- vantage in the series, which dates back to 1887, and have captured 23 of the last 24 meetings including the last 12 games in a row. So c<Jme out this Saturday at 1: 30 and support the Union College F<Jotball team. This years team is by far the best team at Union in over a decade. ' Anyone interested in writing for Sports Call: 382-9029 and ask for Jay, Rob or Drew. 4-2 record. This year she once again won her opening round match defeating Laurie Rey of Potsdam 6-3, 6-2. She then went on .~to beat Laura Malfa of Oswego 6-o, 6·3 in the second rotmd. She was stopped in her next match by the number one seed, Gail Petty of Army 6-3, 6· 1. - - Sportsnotes In consolation play, Julie beat number six seed Selina De Cicco of Cortland 6-1, 6-4 and Elaine Porter of Iona 7-5, 6-4. In ·a tough match she was finally beat by Bonnie Matthew of RIT 6-1, 7-5 to once again post an impressive tournament record of 4-2. During regular season match play her singles record stood at 6-4. She retained the munber one singles rank on the women '.s team throughout the season. In addition, she helped power Union to its first winning season in five years with a team record of 6-5. .. Julie hails from Miami, Florida where she attended Palmetto High School. During High School she played basketball and was co-captain of the team her senior year. She also won a two time all-county badminton player and she ran for the cross-cDuntry and track teams. At Union she has started for the varsity basketball team and has run outdoor track. Currently, Julie is a physic;s major and is a sister of the Delta Ganuna sorority. The Concordiensis sports staff would like to take this time to express our regrets about not being able to publish a photo of Julie,_ One was not available at press time. \. Romas Nears Record Senior goalie George Romas is two shutouts away from tying Doug Crawford's all-time Union College soccer goalie record of 13 career blankings. Romas, a 6 foot one inch, 180- poWld Economics major, has posted four shutouts in seven games so far this season. Last year he banked' opponents six times to equal Crawford's single-season record and had a shutout against Siena in his only start as a sophomore during the 1979 season. Romas has six regular~season games remaining on the 1981 schedule and a strong possibility for post-season action. Union, the defending ECAC Upstate New York Division III champions, currently owns a 4-2-2 record. A four-year soccer let- terwinner at Union and a 1979 graduate of Massapequa High School where he was All- Division and captain. in his senior year, George is the son of Harry and Anna Romas of 77 Massapequa Avenue in Massapequa ... · Oberstadt Gains Second ECAC Honor Junior free safety George Sports Happeni-ngs ~ Oct. 29 .. Nov.4 Varsity Football J. V. Football Varsity Soccer Cross Country Varsity Hockey Oct. 31 Williams Nov. 2 Albany State Oct. 31 at Rochester Nov. 4at Marist Oct. 31 at Albany lnvit. Oct. 30 New England College Oberstadt (Sandy Hook, -conn.) was a member of the ECAC's fifth weekly honor roll for his performance against RPI. Oberstadt was in on a dozen tackles and knocked away si:t: passes as Union regained the \Dutchman Shoes Trophy,\ 21- 7, in the 79th renewal of New York State's oldest continuous football rivalry. For Oberstadt, who moved from cornerback to .free safety- this season, it was the second time this year he hac! represented Union on the ECAC Division III weekly honor rolL Oberstadt was selected afteF Union's opening game 14-14 tie with Rochester as he picked off two passes and was in on 1:?! tackles. Union has now had defensive players represented four of the five weeks. Oberstadt, a 1979 graduate of Newton High School, is the so11 of George and Susan Oberstadt of Riverside Road in Sandy- Hook. Concordy Pick this Week • • • 3 ••• Williams

Page 16 OONOORDIENSIS, October 29, 1981 ' • ' • • > ,· ,, ' • • • • ' ,•. • • J • '·'' , .- ' , • • (' ' • '' • • • • ! : • • • BooterS Split Pair By BR'IAN SHEA The Union College soccer team rolled into last week with a strong 5-0 victory over Colgate. Unfortunately, the Booters \Slipped later in the week against Plattsburgh with a disappointing 2-0 loss severely crushing any NCAA playoff hopes for the team. The Colgate game saw awesome. Uniin was all business. Sophomore forward Chris Morrow was the heavy Dutchman scoring punch registering the hat trick. Union kept Colgate, a formidable Division I opponent, once ranked sixth in Division I in the State, bottled up in its own end of the field for much of the first half. Union had a 2-0 lead after 45 minutes on goals by Tim Alger and Morrow. hard whot to the far post. Dreher played well against Colgate, dominating the middle, collecting and distributing passes and leading the Dut- chman charge. Morrow scored his second goal of the game with 24:32left, taking an assist from Larry AHastasia and sc_oring easily when Colgate's goalie fell down. He completed his hat trick with just 5: 32 left when he scored from in close again. This time, the Colgpte defense had relaxed, looking for an offside call, and Morrow took ad- vantage of this to bang home his fourth goal of the year. Coach Magee was pleased with his team's perfarmance and especially that of Andy Dreher. \I thought we con- tained them well,\ said Magee. \The entire squad was up and everyone played total offense and defense.\ shield for the Dutchmen to penetrate. In the game, Union had the bP.tter offensive chances to score. Andy Dreher hit a bouncing breakaway shot high and Peter Stegeman went one on. one with the goalie only to have the ball smothered by the Plattsburgh goalie. Union played somewhat lackluster in the first half. Plattsburgh played a tough man to man defense. In the second half, Union played better, improving their passing and beating Plattsburgh to many loose balls. The deciding factor was the penalty kick. Unian now plays a tough Oneonta team and LIU (No. 2 Division I team in the ·country). Then the Dut- chmen travel to Rochester on Saturday. Union needs a respectable game against Oneonta and a win over Rochester to keep the dubious NCAA and ECAC picture alive. . ' '\\\ \ . ... ~- . . . ' .. Andy Dreher runs into traffic. Junior Dave Sheridan made the big play bringing the ball down the middle and drawing two Colgate defenders before pushing the ball to Ager at the left side. Ager then beat the Colgate goalie. Senior goalie George Romas had another easy day thanks to the constant pressure by the Dutchman offense. He was credited :with five saves as he recorded his fifth shutout of the season. Romas now needs just two more shutouts to break Union's all-time and season Trinify Slides bY Gridders The second goal came on a .play by senior defender Pete Maloy. Maloy has had im ex- cellent year, often stripping the opponents of the ball and then aggressively dribbling up the field· on. the counterattack. Maloy sent an excellently placed ball into the front of the net, Dreher went up for the ball but decided to deceive the defenders by letting it pass over. Morrow then crashed the net and drilled the ball into the corner. Dreher got a goal of his own just 1:21 into the second half. After drawing a foul just outside the penalty area, Dreher took the direct kick pass from Brian Shea and beat the goalie with a shutout records. . The tide changed Saturday against Plattsburgh. The Dutchmen were slightly out- played and dominated by the Cardinals. The deciding factor was a judgement call by the official in the second half as he awarded a penalty shot to Plattsburgh. Plattsburgh capitalized and the Car_dinal shooter blasted a rocket to the left of a diving George Romas. After the goal, which occurred with 15 minutes left, Platt- sburgh brought nine men back on defense building a tough By LOU GEORGE After Trinity~s 41-7 victory over the Dutchmen last season, who would have believed that this year's Union team would be battling Trinity for a top New England ranking. Who would have believed that Trinity coach Don Miller would have called the 1981 Dutchmen \the best team the Bantams will face the season;\ putting Union above the likes of Tufts and Wesleyan, who are known as consistent New England powerhouses. Who would have im~gined that the outcome of this type of game would be controlled by what coach Wirth Hockey Outlook. ByCNB Union College's combined varsity and junior varsity rosters shows 44 names. A total of 20 freshmen grace the two rosters with a dozen of those rookies opening the season on the varsity. How doe& fourth- year coach Charlie Morrison think his yolUlg club will do? \The goal of this program is ta make the playoffs,\ he said. \We have a young squad facing a tough schedule, but I think we have quality people playing for us this year. I'm not planning on going through a season like the last one.\ Union's schedule shows three road Division I games including two with Capital District rival RPI. Also on the 28-game schedule are Division II post- season tournament teams Oswego, Plattsburgh, Elmira, Norwich, Williams, North Adams, Westfield, Hamilton, Lowell, Merrimack, Salem, Bowdoin, Holy Cross and Colby. A big addition to this year's team will be a healtby Scott Fitzgerald. The junior defen- seman, a potential Division II All-star, missed the entire 1980- 81 season when he separated his shoulder in Union's opening pre- season ·game with AI C. He is expected to vastly improve a defense that gave up 159 goals. Union will have solid goaltending this year as senior Mike Merlo returns for his third season on the varsity while sophomore Bart Brooks saw plenty of action last year. Despite the youth, Union is expecting a good season based on talent. The dozen freshmen on the varsity roster w re either all-conference, all- league, captains, MVPs, scoring leaders or prep school standouts. Returning players such as last year's MVP Don Beall and leading scorer Tod Fobare should also bolster the team's chances. The team opens its pre-season this Friday nigbt, Oct. 30, at home against New England College. termed as ''the worst officiating I have seen in 25' years af coaching.\ Union came out in the first quarter knowing what they had to do and began executing their plan within the first three minutes of the game. The result was a 38-yard Stewart to Kellaher totlclldown com- pletion. With five minutes left in the first quarter, the Stewart to Kellaher combo worked again. After a 34 yard completion to Walt Fredricks, Stewart .hit Kellaher again, this time for a 50-yard touchdown pass. At the end of the first quarter, it was a stunning 12-0 lead for the Dutch- Inen. After what seemed to be a key Bodmer interception deep in Union territory, the Dutchmen had the first of a series of ballhandling mistakes: Union fumbled on their own 20 yard line. This set up a fourth down Shield to Reading pass from the one which resulted in a touche down. On the previous play, there was an apparent fumble with Union's Bruce Melena covering the ball, but un- fortunately the referee had already whistled the play dead. Thus Trinity was given the fourth down opportunity. Starting from their own 15, the Union offense mixed the pass and run effectively as they · moved the ball to the Trinity 30 yard line. From here Roger Harris threw a strilte to Bill r Huttner who had beaten his mad to the end zone. With this score, Union went into the lockerroom leading 18-7. The first .big play of' the second half was a controversial interference call on Union's Marc Marro that brought the ball to the Union 11. This set up the second Shield to Reading touchdown pass and Trinity clased the gap to within five, 18- 13. The second Union mistake occurred after.quarterback Dan Stewart was sacked at his own 2 yard line. Union again fumbled the ball away to Trinity. Trinity scored on the next play on a 2 yard run by Shield. Trinity took the lead 19-18. In the fourth quarter, the Union defense rose to the oc- casion and kept Trinity in poor field position, until Union's third ballhandling miscue. Trinity was punting from deep in their own territory, which would have given the Dutchmen good field position, but a fumbled punt gave Trinity the ball at their own 45 yard line. Shield then connected on two Ion~ passes, the second a 25 yard touchdown pass to Clemmenson. This occurred with 1 : 29 remaining in the game. Union had one last op- . portunity to score. The offense moved the ball into Trinity territory, but after Union's third down play, the official , signalled a change of possession. This caused a great amount of confusion during which the last ten seconds of the game ticked away. Once again the Union defense played well, allowing Trinity's star fullback to gain only 38 yards on 16 carries. Also, the defense did not allow Trinity's offense to produce a single time- consuming drive. But some key mistakes gave Trinity the field position they needed to snatch a victory, . and possibly a top ranking in New England, out of thehandsofthe Dutchmen, who now have a record of 3-2-1. HOCKEY Friday, Oct. 30 Union vs. New England Co liege Tickets $1.00 with I.D .. All proceeds go to .Block. U -- ex Rol:: s r: mit Tht mai of 1 peo Con elic con the una T req the nes to Cor pos The peo pen as dec of ; An< Stu to · pre tha peo tot Thi bee tim by I The bot act pr< hOI sus am wh COl sec

