be ss 45 to of n. p, it d t . y e Liquor Po_licy Questioned By A.J. BRODSKY For the upcommg year, there· appears to be a moratorium-on drink special-s in both the Rathskeller and Pub. Acting upon the suggestion of the Dean of Students,_ Robert H. Kellett, the Food Service and the managers of both on-campus watering holes have ceased from implementing drink specials, a policy initially aimed at improving business during the slow Winter Term. As. there is no official school policy on drink specials, Dean Kellett could only suggest the suspension of such services. Concerned with the off-campus image depicted by ad- vertisements in this paper, poor mid-week class turnout, and the occurrence of vandalism, Dean Kellett feels mid~week specials are promoting the attitude ''of getting smashed\ rather than having a social drink and \shooting the breeze.\ witchhunt here .. \ Upon presentation to the Student Affairs Council, Dean Kellett hopes a concrete policy will be created, thus offering a structureq outline for better dealing with the problem of alcohol on-campus. Liz Kaminski of the Food Service echos Dean Kellett's views and elaborates that it is ''one's own prerogative to drink, but selling X amount of beer add trying to induce them to drink is not a good idea.\ Ms. Kaminski goes on to say that the Food Service is not here to promote alcohol on-campus. Both Dean Kellett and Ms. Kaminski want to underplay the importance of liquor on- campus. As part of this effort, the number of food specials on campus has been increased and menus have been simplified to provide better service and quality. _ an alcohol problem on-campus, Dean Kellett said that it is limited to a few, selected cases. But convE::rsely, Brian Cot- terell, a manager at the Skeller, believes there is a problem and ending specials on\campus will not stop it. \By taking away specials, students will go off- campus,\ he said. Brian goes on to suggest that drunken students · off-campus will in- crease the incident of traffic accidents and other- such tragedies. _ Another aspect to be viewed is the business end of this decision. Brian points out that winter is the worst season for turnouts in theSkeller and drink specials were designed to spark up enthusiasm. When questioned of the expected business problems created by the dean's suggestion. Brian concedes that \we'll have to wait and see.\ January 15, 1981 Volume no, Number 10 Student exhibits a favorite Tuesday night pasttime, which is now in question. Dean Kellett reminds us that \what we are here for is in- tellectual development,\ but he strongly urges that there ~s \no All this attention hints at an underlying concern on-campus, alcohol abuse. When directly confronted with the question of Fee Increase Considered Go to Hale.: . More Room ByNAOMIBLANK Hale House, the up- perclassmen dining hall, has been renovated. The alterations, which began during winter recess, are now com- plete and included ari expansion into the Old Chapel. Renovations were made \to comfortably accommodate the people participating in the me_al program due to the larger participation rate compared to that of years past,\ explained Gary Salerno, manager of Hale House. The dining areas -are now more strategically set up and more ~acious as a whole. \An additional124 seats were added in the Old Chapel as were ad- ditional salad and beverage bars. It is now quicker and . easier for students to get what they need,\ Salerno com- mented. The seating capacity has increased from 150 to 236. The Board of Trustees approved $25,000 for the modifications. There arg no other alterations planned at this time. Redecorating suggestions are welcomed as wen· as. students' artwork to enhance the decor. Other arrangements have . been made for courses and activities previously held in the Old Chapel. Memorial Chapel and Carnegie Hall are being , utilized for these functions. Salerno concluded that \the expansion was not made to destroy the Old Chapel. It was intended to make dining more P-leasurable and suitable for students.\ One-~Half Million: College Awarded Money~ campus, is now underway. o Under the Challenge Grant :g By GALE VANORE The Student Forum, during its Sunday meeting, discussed whether or not to raise the student activities fee,. a decision they had to represent at the Wednesday Board meeting. · Jim Fisher, Vice President of Finance, stated, ''If we raise the fee, as a group we will en- courage more groups and more inefficiencies. But, if we don't raise the fee, there will, be cutbacks.\ The Forum agreed not to raise the fee and, instead, ·subsidize certain groups and fund others. A policy will be developed to clearly categorize program, established _ by o. · these groups. \We also want to · go to the Board knowing how the student body feels,\ said Will Lloyd, junior trustee . Groups and hobbies must be distinguished, \The question is, are we supporting groups we shouldn't be supporting?\ asked Fisher. Hobbies now receive 15 to 25 percent of the budget. Allocation of the money is the next question. \We invest too much money in groups that don't affect many students. The problem is right now they ex- pect that money,\ noted Dave O'Connor, Forum President. Mike Andolina; Assistant Dean of Students, suggested looking at other schools through a survey to see how their fees compare to Union's fees. Other issues discussed at the meeting included the an- nouncement of the elections for freshman class represen- tatives, which will be held this week, and senior representative Wetmore announced that subcouncils were established including a fraternity and sorority council, a housing council, to decide how room lotteries should be run, and a career council. SAC would also like to form a committee to decide a policy for allocation of space in Carnegie .. Union's $38 mil'lion en- dowment campaign has received a boost from the federal · government with the awarding of a ·$500,000 Challenge Grant f'rom the National Endowment for the Humanities (CNEH). Union will use its grant, the largest of 18 awards made to New York State institutions, to strengthen the College's humanities program. Congress in 1976 to help non- Students di.ne in Hale House's extended room. The NEH Challenge Grant, College President · John S. Morris said,· will be an im· portant part of Union's overall effort in the next several years · to maintain the quality of its programs and facilities. The $38 million Campaign for Union, which seeks endowment sup· port for faculty, scholarships, and the College's Ramee profit, humanities-oriented institutions generate new maintenance of the College's firlancial support, Union must humanities facilities. raise $3 in private money for · eve~y $1 in federal money. ·Funding is spaced over a three- year period, with second-and third-year money contingent upon action by Congress and Union's ability to raise mat- ching funds. Union wtll use its Challenge Grant funds to stimulate gifts · for the endowment of faculty · positions in the Division of Humanities, scholarship aid for · students planning to major in humanities disciplines, and Discussing the Challenge Grant, President Morris said, \Endowment of faeulty positions in the humanities will enable the College to maintain and strengthen its outstanding teaching faculty. Support for scholarships will help Union attract qualified but needy students who wish to major in the humanities. And support for the humanities building will . allow it to be maintained as an attractive, functional place conducive to scholarly pur- suits.\ What's Inside Doors Album Review, p. 6 Union p.8 . vs. Oswego Hockey, Arts Graduate Remembers Lennon,p. 2 Winter at Union, p. 4

Page_ 2 OONOORDIENSIS, January 15, 1981 Editorial: Welcome Back As the new year and the new term begin, we look forward to the changes and additions which are almost inevitably in store for us. This year, the campus community has returned to find that on the outside, the campus looks almost normal again. The familiar mole-hills and moat are at last a thing of the past. Once again the campus' idyllic setting is covered with snow (complete With sub-zero weather for those of us who weren't able to spend the term in Alaska). The new football field is still under con- struction, although work has stopped until spring. Hale House has been enlarged by the inclusion of the Old Chapel as another dining room. The new room seems ta be a success, since it usually attracts most students at meal times. This room has been equipped with its own salad and beverage bar. While the for- mer dining room may have a bit more charm, be a bit more picturesque, the new addition has much more heat. In spite of .efforts on the part of Hale House manager, Gary Salerno, there has been a problem with the heat in the main part of the building. The room off to the right which was a part of Hale House has now been designated as the lounge for the Steinmetz Honors Seminar where selected students meet for their class and for a luncheon once a we-ek. The inclusion of the Old Chapel as part of Hale has made it necessary for Coffeehouse to find a new location. The traditional Cabaret room will now ac- commodate Coffeehouse along with Cabaret. This room will also be the location of a new organization called the Intellectual Cabaret. As a revitalized form of intellecual stimulation, this group is just beginning again and should be underway soon. It will ag~in be house in the Cabaret room. These three groups will · now share what has been Union's unique Cabaret room for some time. Although space is a pro'li>lem, it is a shame that one such unique tradition must be broken. Renovations on Old Gym Hall are nearly complete. The building has been re-christened Stanley Becker Hall. The new year has brought about several sur- prises for the campus. However, as classes and ac- tivities get \underway all of th_ese changes will fall !nto the daily routine fairly early and quickly. Freshm.en .Elections The Student Forum will hold elections on Monday, Jan. 26, to 4 fill two positions of Freshman Class Representative. The election winners will become full voting members on the Student Forum following validation of the election. The time schedule for those in- terested in being candidates is as follows: Thursday, Jan. 15-Petitions available in Student Activities Office. Tuesday, Jan. 20-8tatements- pictures due to Concordiensis, 4 p.m. Thursday, Jan. 22-Petitions due in Student Activities Office. Monday, Jan. 26-Elections held in Carnegie Hall. Further information will be available with the petitions on Jan. 15, or you may contact: Joseph L. Cristofaro (Elec- tions Committee Chairman), or Dave O'Connor (Student Forwn President) 382-9582. •· . concoroieoo•o Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor News Editor Features Editor Arts Editors Photo Editor Sports Editors Women's Sports Editor Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Staff Photo Staff Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Paul Grossman GaleVanore Judi Chervenak Box Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Richard A. Sher Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Cory Lewkowicz SteveLemer Rachel I. Mandel Jeff Scardini EllenBerger Maria Manfredonia Mindy Broser, Claire Burchill Charis Richards CONCORDIENSIS iS published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, C~rnegie Hall, Schenectady~ New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 138jJS (607) 563-7151. Entered in. the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. Lennon's Lo·ss Lamented By BOB BERNHARDT John Lennon died last month. Rather, he was murdered. And that is an important dif- ference, in that he lost his life in a fashion so diametrically opposed to his private and public stance of non-violence and peace. These days, I· am trying to sort out the reasons why his death so devastated me. Some of these reasons are easy. I loved his work. And I do mean • Love. I was among the millions of people world-wide who received with open arms and hearts the music and message of the Beatles, from \Love Me Do,\ to ''Across The Universe,\· from Liverpool to Shea Stadium to Abbey Road. I was among another million or so who played their tunes at home, in coffeehouses, and in con!!el't halls, knew their chord progressions, their lyrics, rhythms, their growth, both as people and especially as musicians and creators. It is this aspect of \growth\ as artists that set the Beatles, and especially Lennon and McCartney, apart from the mainstream of their peers (I almost said peer~groups), in fact, in a totally unique class. Even the Rolling Stones and Bee-=' Gees, who have stayed together all these · years, and surely have shown growth and talent-in-the-extreme, 'have not come close to the immensely varied ·and forever-changing output of the Beatles. Other artists of other times showed similar growth and change, from the tnany period..<~ of Picasso, to the phases of Stravinsky, to the innovations of Monteverdi, to the maturation of style and technique by other genius-masters: Mozart, Bach, Beethoven, Brahms . . .. This is not to say that the scope of influence and achievement of the Beatles · compares with that of a Mozart or a Picasso. History alone decides such things. But to me, who lived through and· .played through the changes and growth of the Beatles, and who wit- nessed the capabilities of surprise, innovation, moral comment, and sheer beauty that they could express; and to me, who spent those same years searcning for express; and to me, wno .spent those .same years searching for my own direction and attitudes; and to me, who simply felt that the only thing more beautiful than the present Beatles albwn was the one before it, or the one yet to come. To me, the scope. of their In- fluence upon my musical life and attitudes was as great as, and as important as that of the great masters. To me, and to millions of us, John Lennon's death hurt to the core. Some part of us died, too. In a selfish way, his death makes me feel very old, and in a very real sense, vulnerable. For someone like myslef who ad- mired and honored the Beatles, and especially Lennon and McCartney, .to a perhaps irrational extent, the fact that John Lennon is dead makes me come to grips with the fact th;:.. he was truly a hw:qan being, a man, like me, and not an idol a& I :worshipped him. His life ana music made my imagination and cr.eativity .soar, and. his death brings me down, down, down to earth. Is his death .any more or less tragic than the dozens af other senselessly brutal killings that take ,place daily? Perhaps not. But now, to the list of the gitted who have died so young, Mozart, Purcell, Schubert, Mendelssohn, and in the modern · era, Presley, Janis Joplin, Peter Sellers, F.reddie Prinz, and far too many others, we add the name ·Of John Lennon. And we ask the same old, tired, damedable question: What would he have done had he lived? Gratefully, these days are not without hope or joy or celebration. The sadness felt for his family, for our music- . culture, for what his killing says about us, and selfishly for myself, can be tempered by recalling his life and work, and all the positive and happy and constructive things they have meant to us. I take great comfort in the knowledge that the music does, indeed, li:ve on. Editors' Note~ A 1973 Union graduate, Bob Bernhardt now lives in Birmingham, Ala. apd works. in the Department of Music at the University of Alabama. While a student here, he writes, he \.played just about every song in the Beatl~s book.\ - \I Ame Davi book BU conb and-' ches, poun He the b year such in th archi Nye' book withi ''It expla phot(] In< Unim aboul 1880t selec1 shots in th( ThE priva Nye vancE for t:h is fa· exect w All UniOJ colle€ recei, minir hour Presi Admi has a Ret Haust all st1 less tl wage To aSSOCI houri~ :will b than~ previ< HausE The rates prom) the l requii under Study than min in decidE all stt con siC

Page2 OONOQ.RDIENSIS, January 15, 1981 Editorial: Welcome Back As the new year and the new term begin, we look forward to the changes and additions which are almost inevitably In store for us. This year, the campus community has returned to find that on the nutside, the campus looks almost normal again. The ramiliar mole-hills and moat are at last a thing of the past. Once again the campus' idyllic setting is l·overed with snow (complete with sub-zero weather for those of us who weren't able to spend the te·rm in Alaska). The new football field is still under con- struction, although work has stopped until spring. HaJ.e House has been enlarged by the inclusion of the Old Chapel as another dining rooni. The new room seems to be a success, since it usually attracts most students at meal times. This room has been equipped with its own salad and beverage bar. While the for- mer dining room may have a bit more charm, be a bit more picturesque, the new addition has much more heat. In spite of efforts on the part of Hale House manager, Gary Salerno, there has been a problem with the heat in the main part of the building. The room off to the right which was a part of Hale House has now been designated as the lounge for the Steinmetz Honors Seminar where selected students meet for their class and for a luncheon once a week. The inclusion of the Old Chapel as part of Hale has made it necessary for Coffeehouse to find a new location. The traditional Cabaret room will now ac- commodate Coffeehouse along with Cabaret. This room will also be the location of a new organization called the Intellectual Cabaret. As a revitalized form of intellecual stimulation, this group is just beginning again and should be underway soon. It will again be house in the Cabaret room. These three groups will now share what has been Union's unique Cabaret room for some time. Although space is a problem, it is a shame that one such unique tradition must be broken. Renovations on Old Gym Hall are nearly complete. The building has been re-christened Stanley Becker Hall. The new year has brought about several sur- prises for the campus. However, as classes and ac- tivities get ·underway, all of these changes will fall ¥Ito the daily routine fairly early and quickly. Freshm.en Elections The Student Forum will hold elections on Monday, Jan. 26, to , fill two positions of Freshman Class Representative. The election winners will become full voting members on the Student Forum following validation of the election. The time schedule for those in- terested in being candidates is as follows: Thursday, Jan. 15-Petitions available in Student Activities Office. Tuesday, Jan. 20-8tatements- pictures due to Concordiensis, 4 p.m. Thursday, Jan. 22-Petitions due in Student Activities Office. Monday, Jan. 26-Elections held in Carnegie Hall. Further information will be available with the petitions on Jan. 15, or you may contact: Joseph L. Cristofaro (Elec- tions Committee Chairman), or Dave O'Connor (Student Forum President) 382-9582. •. .. concoroten516 Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor News Editor Featw-es Editor Arts EditOI\S Photo Editor Sports Editors Women's Sports Editor Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Staff Photo Staff Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Paul Grossman GaleVanore Judi Chervenak Box Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Richard A. Sher Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Cory Lewkowicz Steve Lerner Rachel I. Mandel Jeff Scardini EllenBerger Maria Manfredonia Mindy Broser, Claire Burchill Charls Richards CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, C~rnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12300; Publications Office: Susquehann-a Publications,Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 138~8 (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDmNSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. Lennon's Loss Lamented By BOB BERNHARDT JGhn Lennon died last month. Rather, he was murdered. And that is an important dif- ference, in that he lost his life in a fashion so diametrically opposed to his private and public stance of non-violence and peace. These days, I· am trying to sort out the reasons why his death so devastated me. Some of these reasons are easy. I loved his work. And I do mean Love. I was among the millions of peopJ:e wodd-wide who received with open anns and hearts the music and message of the Beatles, from ''Love Me D(),'' to\ Across The Universe,\ from Liverpool to Shea Stadium to Abbey Road. I was among another million or so who played their tunes at horne, in coffeeheuses, and in cont::ett halls, knew their chord progressions, their lyrics, rhythms, their growth, both as people and es!i>ecially as musicians and creators. It is this aspect of \growth\ as artists that set the Beatles, and especially Lennon and McCartney, apart from the mainstream of their peers (I almost said peer-groups), in fact, in a totally unique class. Even the Rolling Stones and Bee • Gees, who !lave stayed together all these years, and surely have shown growth and talent-in-the-extreme, have not come close to the immensely varied and forever-changing output of the Beatles. Other artists of other times showed similar growth and change, from the many periodc:; of Picasso, to the phases of Stravinsky, to the innovations of Monteverdi, to the maturation of style and technique by other genius-masters: Moza:rt, Bach, Beethoven, Brahms ... This is not to say that the scope of influence and achievement of the Beatles compares with that of a Mozart or a Picasso. History alone decides such things. But to me, who lived through and played through the changes and growth of the Beatles, and who wit- nessed the capabilities of surprise, innovation, moral commeRt, and sheer beauty that they could express; and to me, who spent those same years searcfiing for express; and to me, who spent those same years searching for my own direction and attitudes; and to me, who simply felt that the only thing more beautiful thaR the present Beatles albwn was the one before it, or the one yet to come. To me, the scope of their in- fluence upon my musical life and attitudes was as great as, and as important as that of the great masters. To me, and to millions of us, John Lennon's death hurt to the core. Some part of us died, too. In a selfish way, his death makes me feel very old, and in a very real sense, vulnerable. For someone like myslef who ad- mired and honored the Beatles, and especially Lennon and McCartney, to a perhaps irrational extent, the fact that John Lennon is dead makes me come to grips with the fact the.~ he was truly a human being, a man, like me, and not an idol as I worshipped him. His life and music made my imagination and creativity soar, and his death brings me down, down, down to earth. Is his death any more or less tragic than the dozens of other senselessly brutal killings that take place daily? Perhaps not. But now, to the list of the gifted w:ho have died so young, Mozart, Purcell, Schubert, Mendelssohn, and in the modern era, Presley, Janis Joplin, Peter Sellers, Freddie Prinz, and far too many others, we add the name of John Lennon. And we ask the same old, tired, damedable question: What would he have done had he lived? Gratefully, these days are not without hope or joy or celebration. The sadness felt fer his family, for our music- culture, for what his killing says about us, and selfishly for myself, can be tempered by recalling his life and work, and all the positive and happy and constructive things they have meant to us. I take great comfort in the knowledge that the music does, indeed, live on. Editors' Note: A 1973 Union graduate, Bob Bernhardt now lives in Birmingham, Ala. a~d works in the Department of Mnsic at the University of Alabama. While a student here, he writes, he \played just about every song in the Beatles book.\ Letters Dear Yearbook Staff: Dear Editors: After thumbing through the 1930 Union College yearbook, I have .found many disturbing facts which I feel compelled to WTite about. The first and foremost disturbance was the fact that only one picture (out of a totaf of about 600) was devoted to tne Arts-that picture being a shot of the WRUC remote from the Giding C1:mter. What was the purpose of this Qversight? Are the Arts not an important facet of the Union College comrnunlty? Was it really . necessary to devote 21 candid · shots to the Nott, six candid snots to Memorial Chapel, and endless photog:t:qpbs to Fitz HUgh Ludlow Day and the . Sigt!Ul Chi Clambake without ·. · any (l!icture~ · to the .•. tn()st e¢rt~inl.Y ~njoy ltOgt•aptl.tY, hut was it tliteri · dif .. of a bicycle· with a. · •· it..Jq. seat·? tbe time fur the 1981 yea1o~Oik . . at not one retreived any r.(}p.tesentat1on tbe veattbO()k~ At le.ast the J'aze EtiSe(tlbte received adequate repre$entation; in the yearbook. · l?erllaps this year's yearbook staff wUl be a little less biased . towartls the .Attsj wm recognize their importanee to the Union .college col:l!l!nunity and make the !)roper amends. Sincerely, Dan Lacoff President, Sigma Phi Some C9medy. and Mlrfh, To the Editor: SiniJ~ely, AS alway~, Your $~l'vant 1;0.A..F.P. Tax Acti()n Exptained To the Editor: At the Stud~nt Forul)l meeting held last SUnday, ~an. 11, the issue of a posstble student tax increase for the 1981-1982 academic year was discu..;;sed. In ~~der to cope with . Dave o~connor '81 Student Forum President EDITOR'S NOTE: CONCOROlENSIS does not· publish or consider· for publication any letter that does not contain the author's name. Addition~lly, tM editors of . CONCORDIENSIS mu.'lt be able· . to c<mtact tlle author of any submitted letter. · - \I A mE Davi book Bu cont: and- ches poWl He the l year such in tt arch Nye book withi \It explc phOt( In .. Unio abou 18801 selec shots in th Th priva Nye van eo for tl is fa exec1 All Unio co1Ie1 recei mini! hour Pres Admi has c: Re1 Haus all st1 less t wage To as soc houri will b than! previ, Haus1 ThE rates prern the requi1 under Study than min in decid all st consi(

t - OONOOBDIENSIS, Janoory· 15, 1981 Page 3 · Nye Readies GE Catalog \I had never realized,\ said American Studies Profes~or David E. Nye, ''how much a book _of photographs weigh.\ But now he knows that a book containing from200 to 3QO black- and-white shots, each 4 x 5 in- ches, weighs from 15 to 20 pounds. He knows because he spent the better part of the last half year going through about 4,000 such books. They were Iocated ,jn the General Electric (GE) archives in Schenectady, and Nye was cataloging them for a boek that's due to be published within the next month. ''It's a picture book,\ Nye explained, \a catalog of all the,_ photos GE had.\ In all, Nye, with the help of 10 Union students, looked through about 5oo;ooo photos, taken from 1880 until1940. From these were selected 5,000 representative . shots whose listing .\'i'(ill appear in the forthcoming catalog. The book is being printed for private distribution within GE, Nye said. 'The company ad- vanced$30,000 lastspriilgto pay for the research. If the catalog is favorably received by GE executives, Nye added, it's possible they might want to have the second half of the company's photo collection, from 1940 to 1965, indexed in a similar manner. Nye said that he first found- out about the GE pictures in 1977, while visiting the company archives to do research for a book he is writing abo11t Thomas Edison. \There were aU these phot()S of real historical interest,\ the professor recalled. \But there wasn't much order to them.\ So in 1979, with a $400 faculty research grant from Union, he began .surveying the .photo books, to see what could be done with them. Last spring he was able to convince GE that the phah>s should be preserved and cataloged. Work proceeded over the summer and was completed this fall. After looking through all of the books, Nye and ·his student- assistants selected ~.ooo pie- 'tw:es that best represent the company and its employees during this era. In addition to the catalog, which will inclu,de listings of each selected photo, as well as reproductions of 250 of them, Nye and 'his resear- Wages· Here Hiked All student employees at Union, whether paid from college or federal funds, will receive no less than the federal minimum wage of $3.35 per hour effective Jan. 1, Vice President for Finance and Administration John R. Hauser has announced. Retroactive to Oct. 1, 1980, Hauser said, the wage rate· for all student employees will be no less than the federal minimum wage of $3.10 per hour. To p·artialiy offset costs associated with the increased hourly rates, student employees will be allowed to work no more than seven hours a week, where previously they worked eight, Hauser added. The change in student wage rates, Hauser 'said,· was prompted by amendments to the Higher Education Act requiring that students paid under the federal College Work Study Program receive no less than the current federal minimum wage. The College decided to apply this policy to all student employees, since it considered \dual student wage scales as totally unfair and indefensible,\ Hauser said. For several ye&rs, Hauser said, the College has paid student employees a sub- minimum rate of not less than 85 percent of the minimum wage, as permitted under special regulations of the Fair Labor Standards Act. The reduction in students' working hours from eight to seven per week was made to help minimize possible. budget problems, Hauser said. No additional federal funding is expected to cover the additional earnings, and College budgets, including student tuition and room and board charges .and student aid packages for the 1980-81 year, were developed based on assmned continuation of the sub-minimum rates, Hauser noted. Budgets for 1981-81 will be developed on the basis of minimum wage rates to be paid for an eight.,hour work week, Hauser said. Students who are due retroactive earnings should receive the money in their .ran. · 23 paycheck. At the Rat cbers also prepared a file of 2,500 of the photographs and another one with index cards referring to each of the 5,000 originals. ''These pictures are im- portant and were chosen for two reasons,'' Nye said. ''First. they can be the basis of further study. No comprehensive history has ever been written af:lout GE. Second, they are aesthetically pleasing, in- teresting to look at.\ As examples, he cited ·a picture of a GE basebal·l team and an AmeFicanization class for foreign-born workers. Senior American Studies major Martha Duval, one of the students who worked on the project, agreed that looking through the old pictures gave · her a better ,idea of the way people used to live. She also neted the large volume of photos they catalogued-- ' '500,000 is a lot,\ she said. This G·E Aerograph projected images onto clouds in 1927. Extra Income Opportunity r looking lor an easy way to earn some extra money? Turn your spare time into cash by submitting names for mailing list of persons potentially qualified .to fill position openings with .our member corporations: Receive generous appreciation bonuses. For details, fill out and return coupon. · ' -----------------------~-, I am interested in learning more about your The Bonus Raferral Plan, Inc. I I · extra income opportunity. Please furnish me P.O. Box 19722, Dept. P-2 · 1 with all the details. Dallas, Texas 75219 1 1 Please Type or Print Legibly I I ' I I Name 1 I Address 1 I City State Zip I I College or University I ·1 Name of Publication in W~ich I I This Ad Appeared , ·I ... ________________________ _. -The Rathskeller proudly presents the first: ''I Hate New York'' Lottery 1 Free ticket with every sandwich or burger purchase Prizes Prizes Prizes Co'me to the Rat for details! Good Luck! ' ' ANY MAJOR 50 year old Wall St. firm seeks men and women with at least 2 years pf college for a Career h1 the investment business in the city of your choice You may start furl-time or part-time. (50 full·llmers averaged $49,000 last year.) '(20 part-timers averaged $9,000 last year.) For Full deta.ils, call · Paul Fein sot at 377-5868 or come to the placement office on Wedensday, January 21 at 10 a.m. or 2 p.m. FIRST INVESTORS CORPORATION Exeeutlve Offi..,s: 120 Wall St., New York, N.Y. 10000

a e e e ' ' I ' i OONOORDIENSIS, January 15, 1981 Page 3 Nye Readies GE Catalog \I had never realized,'' said American Studies Professor David E. Nye, \how much a book of photographs weigh.\ But now he knows that a book containing from 200 to 300 black- and-white shots, each 4 x 5 in- ches, weighs from 15 to 20 pounds. He knows because he spent the better part of the last half year going through about 4,000 such books. They were located in the General Electric (GE) archives in Schenectady, and Nye was cataloging them for a book that's due to be published within the next month. \It's a picture book,\ Nye explained, \a catalog of all the photos GE N.ad.\ rn all, Nye, witfu. the help of 10 Union students, looked through about 500,000 photos, taken from 1880 unti11940. From these were selected 5,000 representative shots whose listing ..y_ill appear in the forthcoming catalog. The book is being printed for private distribution within GE, Nye said. The company ad- vanced$30,000last springto pay for the research. If the catalog is favorably received by GE executives, Nye added, it's possible they might want to have the s.econd half of the company's photo collection, from 1940 to 1965, indexed in a similar manner. Nye said that he first found- out abeut the GE pictures in 1977, while visiting the company archives to do research for a book he is writing about Thomas Edison. \There were all these photos of real historical interest,\ the professor recalled. \But there wasn't much order to them.'' So in 1979, with a $400 faculty research grant from Union, he began surveying the photo boeks, to see what could be done with them. Last spring he was able to convince GE that the photos should be preserved and cataloged. Work proceeded over the summer and was completed this fall. After looking through all of th.e books, Nye and his student- assistants selected 5,000 pic- ·tures that best represent the company and its employees during this era. In addition to the catalog, which will include listings of each selected photo, as well as reproductions of 250 of them, Nye and his resear- Wages Here Hiked All student employees at Union, wheth.er paid from coJiege or federal funds, will receive no less than the federal minimum wage of $3.35 per hour effective Jan. 1, Vice President for Finance and Administration John R. Hauser has announced. Retroactive to Oct. 1, 1980, Hauser said, the wage rate· for all student employees will be no less than the federal minimum wage of $3.10 per hour. To p·artialiy offset costs associated with the increased hourly rates, student employees will be allowed to work no more than seven hours a week, where previously they worked eight, Hauser added. The change in student wage rates, Hauser said, was prompted by amendments to the Higher Education Act requiring that students paid under the federal College Work Study Program receive no less than the current federal minimum wage. The College decided to apply this policy to all student employees, since it considered \dual student wage scales as totally unfair and indefensible,\ Hauser said. For several years, Hauser said, the College has paid student employees a sub- minimum rate of not less than 85 percent of the minimum wage, as permitted under special regulations of the Fair Labor Standards Act. The reduction in studeNts' working hours from eight to seven per week was made to help minimize possible. budget problems, Hauser said. No additional federal funding is expected to cover the additional earnings, and College budgets, including student tuition and room and board charges and student aid packages for · the 1980-81 year, were developed based on assumed continuation of the sub-minimum rates, Hauser noted. Budgets for 1981-81 will be developed on the basis of minimum wage rates to be paid for an eight-hour work week, Hauser said. Students who are due retroactive earnings should receive the money in their Jan. 23 paycheck. At the Rat chers also .prepared a file of 2,500 of the photographs and another one with index cards referring to each of the 5,000 originHls. \These pictures are im- portant aBd were chosen for two reasons,\ Nye said. \First they can be the basis of further study. No comprehensive history has ever been written about GE. Second, they are aesthetically pleasing, in- teresting to look at.\ As examples, he cited ·a picture of a GE baseball team and an Americanization class for foreign-born workers. Senior American Studies major Martha Duval, one ef the students who worked on the project, agreed that looking through the old pictures gave her a better idea of the way people used to live. She also noted the large volume of photos they catalogued-- \500 is a lot,\ she said. This GE Aerograph projected images onto clouds in 1927. Extra Income Opportunity looking for an easy way to earn some extra money? Turn your spare time into cash by submitting names for mailing list of persons potentially qualified to fill position openings with _our member corporations~ Receive generous appreciation bonuses. For details, fill out and return coupon. · r -----------------------~-, I am interested in learning more about your The Bonus Referral Plan, Inc. I I · extra income opportunity. Please furnish me P.O. Box 19722, Dept. P-2 1 with all the details. Dallas, Texas 75219 1 1 Please Type or Print Legibly I I Name I I I I Address 1 I City State Zip I I College or University I I Name ol Publication in Which I I This Ad Appeared 1 ~------------------------~ The Rathskeller proudly presents the first: ''I Hate New York'' Lottery 1 Free ticket with every sandwich or burger purchase Prizes Prizes Prizes Come to the Rot for details! Good Luck! ANY MAJOR 50 year old Wall St. firm seeks men and women with at least 2 years of college for a Career in the investment business in the city of your choice You may start full-time or part-time. (50 full·llmers averaged $49,000 last year.) '(20 part-timers averaged $9,000 last year.) For Full details, call Paul Feinsot at 377-5868 or come to the placement office on Wedensday, January 21 at 10 a.m. or 2 p.m. FIRST INVESTORS CORPORATION Ezeeutive Offices: 120 Wall St., New York, N.Y. 10006

Page 4 OONOOJ!,DIENSLS, Januar'J! 15, 1981. Winter Term: .. --,-··\ .. -~. In the Great lndoo,rs By CARYN OP'ENGART and KEVIN SNOVER It's 10 p.m. Your chem problems are finished your sociology reading is all done,. and your English pa.per is written imd neatly typed up. Well, what now? The Skeller? The Pub? A fraternity party? Unfortunately the answer is none of the above. At 15 degrees below zero, y9ur best bet is to ~·.et into flannel pajamas with a cup of hot chocolate and watch a ~'ood movie on T.V. Does this ~ound familiar?.If so, welcome :o Union College's Winter Term '81. As any upperclassman can tell you, winter term at Union College is a big turnaround f.rom the fall. Suddenly that short walk to the Pub becomes a · four-mile hike through blizzard..\! :md sub-zero temperatures. Students just can't find the energy to do it. So we a<;ked ex:perienced students how they pass the winter hours away: \Winter term is the most depressing term at Union\ says senior Marty Duval, third .floor R.A .. for West College.\ You're so closed up and just can't go outside. lt's constant cold weather which never lets up and you .feel trapped because of it.\ According to sophomore Donna Torre. \One good thing about winter term is that I got to know everyone on the floor a lot better. Onetime last year there were 30 people in one room eating Domino's pizza till all hours of the night. It's things like that which can really bring the flo.or together.\ ''The thing a bout whiter term,'' says fresh- man Charlie Dier, \is that you get to know which people you like and which people you don't like. Being cooped up brings out the best and the worst in .people.'' But don't be misled about these pessismistic views of winter term, because it can Dutch Hollow Pub This Weekend: Friday Night: Beef & Brew 5:30~7:30 p.m. and Salad Bar with each meal Sorry! but the Pub wHI be _dosed all day Saturday. The bar will reopen at 8:30 p.m. Saturday 464 State St. we deliver Schenectady 374-1888 About a year after roller skating became a national pastime, the city of Schenectady can now boast of its own roller rink, about two blocks from our campus. Located in the Big-N Plaza., across the street from the Ramada Inn, the Electric Skate Palace now offers Union College students a relaxing break from the campus setting. Complete with a snack bar, clothes locker, and pinball machines, the Skate Palace has both day and evening sessions at very reasonable rates. In additi.on, there are many specials such as Monday night, when the holder of a college I.D_ gaihs admittance for half price, and a Wed- nesday night 2-for-1 special for couples. Overall, the at- mosphere at the rink is very pleasant with a background of \top 40\ music and is recommended for anyone looking for a good time. actually be a lot ~ of fun. ''Although there are not as many activities planned,'' says Marty, \the ones that are sh- ceduled a11e, on the whole, bigger events.\ A highlight of the semester is the Winter Carnival. It is a day of com- petition bet ween dorms and fraternities which is another means of bringing peopl'e together. There are snow sculpture mntests, tug-of-war competitions, obstacle courses on ice, and a big off-campus dance to end the. day's events. . ' .. i -~--'. ·\\'''' The Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC) Ball, a formal dance also held off campus, .is another social gathering that can bring relief frQm the typical winter routine. Sometimes skis provide the best way to get around the camp1:1s during the winter Yet another competition which encourages donn unity is WRUC's trivia contest. It in- volved people listening to the station and answering.questions offered by tile DJ' s. At the end the· contest, a keg of beer is given to the group which has accumulated the most points. Sophomore Tina Bohl suggests tnat students try to . exercise as much as possible, and not fall into the lackidaisical atmosphere of winter. \Ice skating-, skiing,· indoor swimming, racquetball and intramural competitions are good activities to become involved in.\ While people find themselves buckling down academically this term, drinking in the dorms rather than the ·Pub and the Skeller becomes a common pasttime. Donna noticed, \The. drinking did seem to be more emphasized, but my cum and those of most people I know all had increased last winter. Wintertermis when people take harder_ courses, so they can enjoy the spring term to the fullest. If you still feel winter term is somewhat depressing, don't gjve up hope. As Marty Duval put it, \Being here winter term is very restricting, but that's what makes spring term that much better!\ Hale House Expands BY-NANCY CAMARATA Returning back to school after fall term recess this year, there were many changes on Union's campus. Most notable was the new dining rom,n setup at th_e ever-gr-owing Hale House. Workers and diners alike were taken by surprise at the major renovations and expanding that was done, especially because it was completed in such a short period of time. Breaking through into the Old Chapel, seating ac- commodations have now doubled compared to when the Lower Lounge was pressed into service to alleviate the _ per• sistent crowds due to the sharp increase of members on the food plan. The .new facilities are welcomed by the students because although it is· not the most beantiful of rooms, it does cut· down on the . crushing throngs. As Tom Goldstein, '81, 1remarked, \The new room is an aesthetically displeasing place to dine but otherwise it's really great since it reduces the congestion.\ The new arrangements at Hale House are greatly ap- preciated by student W{)rkers as well. Although clean-up is more time-consuming in the spacious new room, the convenience is undeniable. Tray carts are in more accessible locations, dishroom workers do not have to side-step and dodge diners, which makes for many fewer disasterous tray spills. , ·Extensive. planning was in- volved in the renovation of Hale House. Hard work; nwnerous hours and thousands of dollars were incorporated and although hampered by obstacles such as snow and cold weather, the efforts were a success. As Gary SEUerno, the manager this year at Hale House commented, \We are trying to make the dining as comfortable for the students as possible; we want to make them happy.\ . Nott Wits Return. to Union The \Nott Wits\ are retur- ning to WRUC every Friday night from8:30 to 9:30p.m. The group, which · has not been active over the last two years, has a long history. They were a satirical comedy group which had been extremely active in the past, especially during the two academic years of '76-'77 and '77 -'78. Dan Friefeld,. '83, the \Chief Wit\ who is putting the group back together, stumbled across the history of the Nott Wits last year. He met Adam Frey, the former organizer of the group. Adam, who has since left Union to pursue a career in acting, lived across the hall from Dan last year. He entrusted Dan with the group's old scripts and asked Dan to start the group up again. Adam also wrote a letter to the new group, which was to ~e read once the new group was formed. So far, Dan has put together quite a group. It includes Chris Hand, '34, \Chief Anarchist;\ Rich Viegan, '83, \Marxist (Groucho )-Lennonist and Drunken F'od;\ Alan Saunders, '84, \Nihilist (Son of Colonel Scheis~~opf);\ Bobak Mozayeni, '84, \Pinko;\ David Zuckerberg, '83, \Student of the Art of Go and Sexist Extraor~ dinaire;\ Carl Hommel, ''82, \When Worlds Collide;\ and Judi Chervenak, '83, \Judi Judi, Judi.\ The skits to be performed will be both written and improvised. . The characters and settings will vary from week to week. Dan gave several examples of skits the group will perform. They include Panel Discussions on the Virtues of Lawrence Welk, Help Wanted Earn $1 000 or more for a few evenings work. No selling. Hang posters around campus to advertise our half-price tours to Europe. For details, write~ Travel Study lnfematicmal, 2030 East 4800 South; Suite 101, Salt Lake City, Ut 84117. and interviews with prominent citizens such as Ronald Reagan, God, and Jesus Christ. Dan seemed to think that the skits could also involve events at Union College. Dan wanted to emphasize that the group is still not complete. He invites anyone interested in getting involved .in either acting or script writing to attend the group's meetings, Which are held every Wednesday night at 8:30 at WRUC. Dan added that he still has not read Adam's letter to the group, and he hopes to do so next Wednesday night. He fears that he may have lost the original letter. If so, he plans to im· provise. As Dan himself put it, \Frey would have probably lost it also, or else fed it to his pet tarantula.\ Lecture on Transcendental Meditation Mone. Jan. 19 8:00p.m. Strauss Lounge Guest Speaker: Robert Omansky For info: 370-4393 I ( ( ·l ). c: t r r a f, s p b c s a 6 a f~ s p d VI ti a n Sl T ii p g ir p ir eJ ir w ir cl dl lll rr. ft yc J; L in sr bE S< te eli TJ PJ nu un E< \I N~ fr< re de

·-~- the is val rm in- ale as as as an at in re at xt at al st et CONCORDIENSIS. Janoory15 1 1981. Page 5 ·Aroun am Go Garnet I .Goa The Union hOckey team, in connection with the annual Go- Garnet-Go festivities, will sponsor a Cerebral Palsy (CP) night this Saturday, Jan. 17, at Achilles Rink, The Dutchmen, who will fa~e off against Babson at 8 p.m., will donate a portion of all ticket proceeds to the U-nited 8P Center in Albany. Students and faculty members, who normally get their tickets for free, will be. able to contribute by donatingto the CP canisters that will ibe placed near the entrance of the rink. Following the game, Union Athletic Director Richard S. Sakala, hockey team coach Charlie Morrison,. and senior skaters Bill Mason and Jim Josephson will present the proceeds to the CP Telethon, which will kick off its two-day fund raising drive on ChannellO at 11 p~m. Saturday. A goal of $1,500 has been set to be presented at the telethon. Go-Garnet-Go. is an annual affair that gives students and faculty a chance to show their support for College athletic programs, especially hockey, by dressing in garnet and while clothing, as well as showing . school spirit by ·making signs and other displays. Women's_ Music Friday, January 16 from 4 till 6 p.m., the Women's Network and the . Union College Cof- feehouse will present a very special program. It will be a program of music ancf · discussion focusing on how women learn attitudes about their life choices and \age appropriate\ choices from the media and culture, sharing songs that present alternatives. This program will illustrate the importance of women (and all people) presenting songs that give both positive and realistic images of women's .lives and possibilities. And this program, in particular, focuses on the effects of aging on women's self image and on their living and. working options. The songs include topics of rearing children, a mother's depen- dence on her children, choosing not to have children, and other milestone. This informative and fulfilling experience comes to you. Don't Miss It! Friday, January 16, 4:00, Strauss Lounge. TM Lecture on c·ampus . This Monday, Jan.l9 at 8 p.m. in Strauss Lounge a guest speaker, Robert Omansky, will be speaking on the \Tran- scendental Meditation technique.'' Omansky is a trained and expet·ienced teacher of the Transcendental Meditation Program, who has lectured at numerous area colleges and universities as well as Adult Education groups on the topic of \How to Release Stress Naturl!lly.\ Omansky, drawing from a volume of scientific research will also discuss developing mental potential, increasing LQ., improving concentration and social relations as a result of the practice. The lecture is free and open to all interested. An opportunity for discussion will follow. For further information call 370- 4393. Dan~iels Reviews William J. Daniels, associate professor of political science here, recently reviewed The Brethren, by Bob Woodward and Scott Armstrong, for the Albany Law Review. Daniels said the insights he brought to this effort were, in part, a product of his 1978-79 judicial fellowship, duving which he served as an administrative... staff assistant to ·chief Justice Warren E. Burger. Also, Daniels reports a chapter he wrote entitled \The Judiciary\ was published in American Government and Polititics, edited by B. K. Shrivastava and Thomas W. Casstevens. This volume, published in India by Radiant Publis-hers, will soon be published in the U. S. by the Humanities Press. Basketb,cU Marathon Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji) will hol<L a benefit basket ball marathon beginning at l p.m. this Friday, Jan. 16, and ending at i p.m. Satl!rday Jan. 17, at Alwnni Gym. Proceeds frem the third annual event will go to the Sunnyview Hospital and Rehabilitation Center in Schenectady. Last year the event Faised $2,500 with a goal of $5,00~ set for this year. BiH McNeice, student chairman of Campus Com- munity Relations at the fraternity, elq)lained that the money -is raised by pledges per hour ofcompetition. In the past, most of the donations have come .from students, fe~culty and Schenectady businesses. According to McNei~e. a junior, teams that will make up the 24-hour event include the Schenectady police and fire departments, the Schenectady City Government, Radio Station WTRY, the Sunnyview staff, members of the Union faculty, Union students, and the Brothers of Phi Gamma Delta. Further information about the marathon can be obtained by calling McNeice at 372-0172. ;\' i ,, ~-.., '\ . Paula Brownlee; new President of Hollins Col'lege Brownlee Appointed Paula P. Brownlee, dean of faculty and professor of chemistry nere, has been named president of Hollins College in Roanoke County, Va., effective July 1. Announcement of her selection was made Jan. · 4, by Robert B'. Claytor chairman ef t-he Hollins College Board of Trustees. Brownlee will be the 139-year- old college's seventh president and the third woman to hold that position. In announcing Brownlee's selection, Claytor stated that \Hollins is extFemely fortunate in attracting a person so highly qualified to lead our college in these demanding times. Dr. Brownlee has a superbly balanced record of excellence in scholarship, teaching, and academic administratio.n.'' Hollins is an independent, ·nondenominational liberal arts college for women. It is the oldest women's college in Virginia, and it currently has 860 undergraduates and about 50 graduate students. Hollins is located two miles outside the City of Roanoke. THE HEBREW UNIVERSITY OF JERUSALEM 1981/82 PROGRA.MS FOR AMERI'CAN STUDENTS DONE YEAR PROGRAM-for college sophomo(es and juniors. DREGULAR STUDIES-for college transfer students toward B.A. and B.Sc. degrees. D GRADUATE STUDIES-Master's, Doctoral and Visiting Graduate programs. D SUMMER COURSES-- given in English. PLEASE-£HEGK DESIRED PROGRAM For Application and Information, write: Office of Academic Affairs American Friends of the Hebrew University 1140Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10036 (212) 840-5820 Name------~--------------~------~--------~---- Address ----------'------------ City/State/Zip

. Page 6 CONOORDIENSIS, January 15, 1981 The Doors: Wide Open By BOB FOX What exactly is death? I don't know. Neither do you. Dead end. · Then what does death mean to those who are still living? And what if the deceased was someone· we knew only in .a limited sense, from a distance? That's the sense in Which most of us know famous musicians: we only know what their music · and lyrics mean to us, to our friends, and, if we care, to the critics. · An artist who has ceased to exist has ceased to create. We will never be blessed with anything new from Mark Twain or John Lennon. But we still read books by Twain, and we still listen to songs by Lennon. These men are important because of what they have created. True, we will never be blessed with anything aew from a dead artist, but let us not dwell in sorrow and pain. Often what the artist. has given while alive is plenty. The musical contributions of The Doors could be described as \plenty.\ Some would call The Doors' music \too much.\ It's not too much. It is enough. I'm not sure how many albums The Doors released, or how many songs Jim Morrison or Robby Krieger wrote. But I do know that they touched enough people to raise a devoted, fanatical following. There is an undeniable mystic excitement in hearing Jim Morrison sing. Whether he is unleashing an alarmingly magnificent scream, or saying, with complete composure, \I can do anything,\ he com- mands attention. The magic in The Doors' music is still potent, · even though the band is no longer in existence. I recall a C()flC~rt I recently attended in Buffalo. During the in- termission between bands; Ray Manzarek's keyboard in- troduction to \Light My Fire\ sliced through the air. A cry arose from the. crowd. The Doors are· still growing. That's what all this is about. I mean, that's the alleged focus of this article : There is a new Doors album, sort of. The Doors Greatest Hits was recently released on Elektra-Asylum Records. If you think you like The Doors' music, but you aren't sure, buy this alb111n. It will erase all doubts. If yoll have a respectable Doors collection, this album isn't essential, but it would be a nice treat. The se.lectiori of songs is ex- ceptional. · There .are those who argue that JimMorr,ison is still alive. I don't know atl the facts surrounding his death. I never met him and never saw him in concert. To me, he is only what he created. Jim Morrison is the driving force, the magic in The Doe-rs' music. The music is still with us: Jim Morrison lives, and The Doors roll on. Come to the first Cabaret of tile term featuring alumnus Pete Perrane Act 1 and Mary lonk-Vasco and Act 2 Chris Gaynor and fr,iends with M.C. Dan lacoff See yqu there! Smythe New Y·ear God, I Hope I Get It Happy NElw Year. What does this phrase mean to you? Vacation, Champagne, the ball dropping from Times Square, a night of sinful pleasures, maximinn consumption, 'Guy Lombardo, streamers, confetti, party hats, and most of all an excuse to alter your physical, Inental and emotional states. limited to one night, but that the entire month of Jan11ary should be a non-stop party, with plenty of lewdness, crudeness, and lots of mean, nasty, ugly things like party hats, streamers, maximum constunption, and sinful pleasures. A few nights Eustas included mean, nasty, ugly things like mother raping . and father stabbing,. but it tired him out. Eustas stayed so drunk that month that he forgot to shave until February. So it goes. ByDMP \Well \baby I said to my roommate, \we both got called back! What do ya think auditions will be like?'' \Oh I don't know ... a song and a dance . . . nothin' too heavy.\ \Yeah maybe we'll just have some kind of personal in- terview, you know, to see what 'type' we should play.\ \Maybe yeah, like I said, nothing too heavy.\ · FAT CHANCE. BIG FAT CHANCE. Out of sixty-one (count 'em! sixty-one!) students auditioning for fifteen roles, twenty-seven (17 women and 10 men) were called back for casting auditions. And a talented twenty-seven it were! (And a nerve-wracking night it became.) There I sat-a grey face amid what seemed to be the masses. I felt like a character in \Chorus Line.\ Everyone was so good-singing, dancing, looking mighty p~etty . . . \How many people does he need? How many boys? How many girls?\ I thought I'd die. Maybe I did and nobody told me. Anyway, after four hours of singing and dancing and acting and feeling the pressure of , seeing everyone else sing and dance and act. And after figuring I'd never get a part because everyone else was so amazing, and I'm just the same old boring person I've been for twenty years. And after won- dering why I subject myself to such pain and misery· (I mean, how would you like to feel as though it were finals week the first week of the term?), I did what any clear-minded Union student would've done- I fogged. up my mind. So, it was me and a couple of pals and lots of our fermented · friends 'til three in the morning that \Friday night.\ I figured that if the cast list was gonna be posted at three the next af- ternoon, I should go to sleep at five a.m. so I would wake up late the next day and not have to worry away the day pacing around the room until the prophesied hour. So, my friends and I stayed up real, real late and crashed in my room in a big anxious heap that came back to life, to our dismay, at nine o'clock in the morning. (Why do things like that have to happen? To me?) So, we paced around my room worrying away the following five and a half hours, and then w.e got bored and decided to go over to the Nott a Block ••u•• Meeting Thursday, 7:00 p.m. This winter at the Kosher Kitchen Announcing our new cook and our new location! New choice of Meal Pions: 15 Meals 10 Meals 5Meals Friday dinners $'350 $300 $160 $28.00 For more information ca.ll Allen Ginsburg at 370- 6451 It's not too late to join! little early (what the heck?). We walked up the steps to that building as though we were Dorothy and her cohorts ap- · proaching the Great and Powerful Oz. We walked into the Green Room looking at the call board as though we were Moses about to behold the glorious truths of God. Were we among the chosen children? Was our pain and suffering to any avail? YES! YES! YES! YES! YES! YES! YES! Sigh. Mega-sigh, even. I felt like I lost weight. Phew! There we were, all of us, part of a cast that, in the hands of guest director, Tom Briggs, looks like it will make the winter term production of WORKING quite a hot show: we have some new faces: Greg Grant, Jodi Choen, Mary Bonk-Vasko, Robin Molella, Felicia Salvacion, and Dani Raphael, and some old faces: Dan Lacoff, Eric Ruben, Daro Beninati, Chris Gaynor, Tom Farrell, Andy Levine, Bambi Sclauch, Carmen Martinez and Deme Pontisakos, as well as two very special guests from the area: eleven- year-old Russell Ruckerstuhl, and seven-year-old Nicholas Bouloukos. And it is going to be a hot show! Back in the days when Eustas P. Smythe was spreading Herpes like warm peanut butter, things were basically the same concerning the New Year's hullaballoo. Of course, Guy was not there, but the New Year's. partying was still hearty. What really perturbed Eustas was that on January second or third, things went back to normal. One year he decided that the New Year's celebration should not be Often Eustas would become so wasted on these cold January nights that he actually believed it was New Year's eve all over again. We at Smythe by no means suffer from such severe delusions, but rest assured, we do suffer. Watch f<>r us. Happy New Year! COFFEEHOUSE Ill When: Friday, Jan. 16 at 8:30 p.m. Where: Cabaret room, Carnegie Who: Betsy Rose and Kathy Winter What: A Very specia I performance E;xotic coffees and fresh donuts wHI be served Admission: one dollar Call Days Evenings & Weekends CLASSES BEG IN 1 /25 Educatio11al Center TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SliCE 1938 Albany Center 163 Delaware Ave Delmar,· N.Y. 12054 (518) ~39-8146 For Information About Other Centers Iii More Than 80 Major US Cities & Abroad OLitside NY State CALL TOLl· FREE: 800·223~1782 .' I I 81 1st n· 2nc 11 3rd 11: A the sui Co1 car sch on Stu Jar intE A abr pic1 see Fal ord res1 Ma: A Ga1 T me• in tl Jefl A Or~ any GyJ Tm rom 7:3C G corr In peri chi pro COUI inf(] Nyc Wyt C< Sch Int Wo'r for p.m late . nom Tl is b Sem Anit a P~ Pun 23, Hu11 wel< and mec Hun Sl Rc polit testi befo1 exarJ East Unio Sh and law, on tl the Eurc mim worl apP1 com Org;: Fort: reml appt: hear COilll AI The

.' BULLETIN BOARD WRUC PRESENTS TRIV1Al9U 1st Round-Tuesday, 1-20-61, 9- 11 p.m. 2nd round-Tuesday, 1-27-81, 9- 11 p.m. · · . · 3rd round-Wednesday, 2-4:-81, 9- 11 p.m. ' On90.9FM inStereo Applications for positions . on the following newly formed SAC subcommittees, Career Counseling (concerned With career .placement and graduate schools), and the subcollllr\ittee on housing will be available at Student Activities Thursday, January 15, 1981. Anyone who is interested may apply. Any Seniorthat was on a term abroad, and has not had a senior picture taken for the yearbook, see Mrs. Marra immediately. Fall term abroad students that ordered yearbooks, books were reserved for you. See Mrs. Marra. Anyone w.jshing to buy a 1980 Garnet, there are extras. There will be a Garnet meeting ·Friday the 16th at 4: 00 in the Garnet office. Please call Jeff (6648) if you cannot attend. A t t e n t i.o n W o m en : Organizational meeting for anyone interested in a Women's Gymnastics Club (Team?)! Tuesday, January 20, 1981, ~ room 113, Psychology Bldg., 7:30 p.m. Coaching and possible competition will be discu..<;sed. In addition, anyone with ex- perience as an instructor in a children's developmental program is especially en- couraged to attend. For further information call Rudy Nydegger, 6257, or Karen Wytrwal, 6168. · CAREER COI~.NER Correction in the Recruiting Schedule: The , Advanced Interviewing Technique Workshop has been cancelled for Thursday, February 19, 4 p.m. Will be rescheduled at a later date. Watch for an- nouncement. The Philosophy Department is happy to present this first Seminar of Winter Term. Dr. Anita :Allen on NEH will present a paper on Cruel and Unusual Punishment, Friday, January 23, 1981, 3:30 p.m., in Humanities 213. All are welcome to attend the lecture and illformal discu..\!sion im- mediately following in the Humanities Faculty Lounge. OONOORDIENSIS, Jan'UJ.Lry 15, 1981 .. clasaifieos Career Workshops for winter term include: Hesume Writing, Intervie.wing Tec·hniques, Advanced Interviewing Techniques, Summer Jobs, Internships, Skills Iden- tification, Decision Making Skills, Alternativ-e Job Search Strategies, and What Can I Do With A Major In ? Workshops are open to· all studt:mts. Sign up in The- Placement and Career Center. New Winter Term Package Room Hours Monday 1:30-2:30, 6:30-7:30 Tuesday 1 : 30-2: 30 Wednesday 1:30-2:30,6:30-7:30 Thursday 1:30°2:30,6:30-7:30 Friday 1 : 30-:2: 30 Tuesday evening hours have · been discontinued. These are changes and ad- ditions to your recruiting schedule. For further in- . formation please stop by the Placement Office: Feb. 3, 1981--Procter & Gamble Orientation at 7:30-8:00 in Humanities 115. Feb. 10, 1981-Recruiting date for RCA is cancelled. Feb. 13, 1981-.-U..S. Army ~Material Development and Readiness Command will· be interviewing on campu..cl on February 13, 1981 and have added Chemistry, Math, and Physics majors to their schedule. The basic requirement is 60 semester hours of courses in the fields of Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics or pre- engineering type courses and must include 9 semester hours in Differential and Integral Calculus. Feb. 18, 1981-MTI-Sign-up February 5 at 1:30. Check Placement for further in- formation. Feb. 19, 1981--Mutual of Omaha-8ign-up February 9 at 9:30a.m. Check Placement for further information. Feb. 27, 1981-Prudential Ins. Co.--sign-up February 16 at 2:30 p.m. Check Placement for further information. March 3, 1981-Photo Circuits Div.-Kollmorgen Corporation. Sign-up February 16 at 1:15 p.m. Check Placement for further information. March 3, 1981-Thom MeAn- Sign-up Feb. 16 at 2:30 p.m. Check Placement for further information. · March 4, 1981--Central Hudson Gas & Electric. Sign-up February 17 at 1:30 p.m. Check Placement for further in- formation. March 10, 1981--California Department of Transportation has cancelled their interview date. campus on January 16, 1981 instead of January 15, 1981. French speakers of all levels of ability are invited to the Table F.rancaise en Tuesdays in the Pub from 12:30-1:30 for- lunch and conversation. If you eat elsewhere, please stop by and join us for a few minutes afterward. Attention Women Delta Delta Delta Sorority (Tri Delta) will be joining the Union Community! They will be here on February 3, 4,,and5 to start a new colony. If interested, please register in the Student Affairs Office and pick up necessary information as soon as possible. Apartment needed for spring term. Please call Tamson Scott, 374~9715. Ride needed to Western U.S. after spring term (Montana, Idaho, or thereabouts). Tamson Scott, 374-9745. INVESTMENT REPRESEN- TATIVE--Paul Feinsot, Class of 1980, will be at the Placement Office on Wednesday, January 21, 1981, at 10 a.m. and-or 3 p.m. 'to speak with students about an INVESTMENT REPRESEN- TATIVE. The meetings are open to any major ·who is in- terested in .this type of work. Please stop by and sign-up for a time. SUMMER EMPLOYMENT AT HARRY DIAMOND LABORATORIES: Harry Diamond Laboratories has summer opportunities for engineering and physics students, who will have com- pleted their freshman, sophomore or junior year by spring of 1981. For further in- formation and applic!J.tions, please stop by the Placement Office. NEW \YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF EN- VIRONMENTAL CONSER- VATION ANNOUNCES SUMMER CAMP EM- PLOYMENT: The' Dept. of Environmental Conservation is seeking students to work for three Environmental Educl'ltion Camps and three Youth Con- servation Corps Camps. For further information, please stop by the Placement Office. YALE UNIVERSITY: 1981 Summer Research Program for College Juniors: We have ap- plications in the Placement Office for Physics, Chemistry and Engineering Majors who would be interested in summer employment. All French-speaking students and faculty are invited. Wine will be provided this week and as long as funds hold out. Anniversary Forum--1973 Supreme Court Decision-mA promist of equal justice for all women. A forum on politics and women's rights. Speakers will discuss the implications of the 1980 election, the law's affect on . the women's health issue vis a vis abortion, and the influence of the moral majority. These issues affect you! Find out what they are about. Thuts~ay, Jan. 22, 7 p.m. Campus Ministry Mass-- January 18--Bishop Howard Hubbard to speak. Financial Aid Applications for the 1981-82 academic year are now available in the Office of Financial Aid, on the second .floor of Becker Hall. A com· pleted application -for aid in- cludes both the Financial Aid ·Form and the Union College Financial Aid Application. No award will be made without the forms. On the Financial Aid Form, please be sure to complete both sides of the application, in- cluding the supplement. Failure to do this will result in a processing delay. Deadlines for submitting the applications are: F AF March 1, 1981 Union Application Aprill, 1981 Late applications will be at a competitive disadvantage for funds. The Financial Aid Staff will be available to assist you in any way possible. Feel free to contact us if you have any questions. There are still a few limited places available for the Union Term Abroad in Schwabish- Hall, Germany, during the spring term, 1981. Professor Kellenter will be the- resident director of the program. Any student interested in the program should contact the Terms Abroad office, HU 211, immediately. PERSONALS Halina, Chris & Sharon: Here's to a happy winter and spring term in my 'new home'! Love, Gale. Sqsie: After all the ups and downs we've been through together, here's to the new year. ,. page 7 It's good to have you back. Love always, Sha MCS: \Follow You, Follow Me\ (to the hockey games!) • GAV --------------------· Maria-Welcome back. I know this isn't Italy, but at least there aFen't any flies. Grape. The Wh.ole Gang-Thanks for a fantastic birthday. I don't mind getting old, especially with terrific friends like you. Claire. Christine-Thanks for rolling! D. K.-Thanks for the memories- -X B.L. · Dear Tom-It'll be like to die. I mean, do we have a hot show or what? Paul & Deme Dear N,ags-You are so good natured-The we bad guys Camel: Are you going to make it? Teeth and all? Hypo! ! Ellen: Watch out. You're in for a big surprise. He's fickle. Lynn: Thanks for the P.C. rides. Remember the braids. Brad: Congrats. INiRAMURALS Cuding Meeting at Achilles Rink-7 p.m.-Thurs., Jan. 15, 1981. Munchies and refresh- ments available. Pool Hours M-F M-Tu-Th-F Sat. 11:30-3:30 ~ 7-9 12-4, 7-9 .. 1:30-4:30, 7-9 Sun. Sponsored by Williams College Taught at Mystic Seaport Museum. See Dean Nelson Science- Engineering SUNY-Albany--will be on Le Table Francaise will meet every Tuesday in the Pub for lunch and conversation at 12:30. Area Calendar Sharlet Reports to House FILM Jan. 18--Albany Public Library will present the family THEATER Jan. 9-Feb. 8--The Four Seasons Dinner Theater is proud to annotmce a splendid cast led by Ms. Paula Bachinsky for their winter production of Funny Girl. For reservations. call 459-3100. Robert Sharlet, professor of political science here, recently testified in Washington, D.C., before a House subcopnnittee. examining human rights in East Europe and the Soviet Union. Sharlet, a specialist in Soviet and East Ew·opean politics and law, presented a 75-page report on the status of hwnan rights in the eight countries of East Europe and made a separate 30- minute oral presentation on the workers' strike in Poland. He appeared before the Sub- committee on Inernational Organizaltions of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. His remarks and written report will appear in a publication on the hearing being. prepared by the committee. A book that Sharlet coedited, The Soviet Union Since StaUn, has been reviewed favorably in several recent publications. The Washington Post said the book was timely in view of such events as the Soviet invasion of Mghanistan and the Salt II negotiation and concluded-that it is a useful addition to ·our recent public discussion. Other reviews have appeared in Current History, Foreign Affairs, and Library Journal. The book includes essays by 14 leading American scholars who assess and. interpret Soviet politics, economics, and society from the time of Stalin's death in 1953. Shar let, a member of the Union faculty since 1967, has also published three other books, including Pashukanis: Selected Writings on Marxism and Law (coeditor, 1980), The New Soviet Constitution of 1977 (1978), and The Soviet Legal System and Arms Inspection ( coeditor, 1972). He has been awarded a number of honors and grants from such institutions as the Ford Foundation, the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, the American Council of Learned Societies, and the National Endowment for the Humanities. He has been a visiting professor at Yal~ University and the University of Wisconsin and has given guest lectures. at <;ornell, Princeton, the University of North Carolina, Moscow University, and George Washington University. Since 1972 he has been affiliated as a research associate with Columbia University's Russian Institute and the Research Institute on International Change. . film: Wonderful World of the Brothers Grimm, starring Farley Granger. The film begins at 2 p.m. in the Main Library Children's Room, 161 Washington Ave. For further information, call 449-3380. Jan. 19-Russell Sage College will host the film, \The Front,\ with· Woody Allen and Zero Mostel. The film will be shown at 7 & 9:30 p.m. at the Schacht Fine Arts Center. For further information call 270-2344. MUSIC Jan. 21--The Schenectady YWCA Coffee House \Open Stage\ will feature Ms. Terri Roben, a local musician specializing in contemporary folk an_d blues. The per- formance will take place from 7-10 p.m. For information call 374..:3391. \.. Jan. 17, 19-23-The Empire State Youth Theater Institute will .present the most affecting drama, \The Diary of Anne Frank.\ Performapces will take place in the main theater of the Egg at Albany's Empire State Plaza. For information call 474-1767. PUPPET SHOW Jan. 15-Youngsters of all ages are invited to enjoy Dr. ~euss' Puppet Show at Albany Public Library. The show will be held at 10:30 a.m. & 3:30p.m. in the Main .Library, 161 Washington Ave. For more information, call 449-3380.

- Page 8 OONOOJJ,DIENSIS, January 15, 1981 sports Skaters Stun Oswego By SCOTT FITZGERALD The Union College hockey team played exceptional hockey last Saturday as they dumped Oswego State, 8-,7, in ECAC hockey action at the Romney Field House at Oswego. The Oswego Great LaKers went into Saturday's game with\ a 15-game winning streak and had won 26 of their last 27 gan .es. They had defeated top ranked teams in the country and are presently ranked number one in Division II hockey. front of the net. Assisting on the goal were Jim Josephson and Mark Bon. Oswego came back to within one goal of Union as they put one past goalie Bart Brooks with only twelve seconds left in the period. In the second period, Fobare picked up_ his third goal with Don Beall receiving his third assist of the game. TheGreart Lakers came back five minutes later to reduce Union's lead to one goal. The Union Dutchmen then took the reigns, as both Bill Mason and 0Jve Ferguson beat Oswego goalie Ed Layton to give the Garnet a 6-3 lead after two periods. crisp pass from· Woodman and unleashed an electrifying shot that beat the Oswego net- rninder. This gave Union the 8-7 win. The action-packed ,game instilled a great d~a:I of con- fidence in the Union players, which should be beneficial in their contest Saturday against the Babson Beavers. Let's hope (],) Union can come up with another ~ solid effort from Bart Brooks ;:n and the rest of the skating £ Dutchmen. Saturday is the o second annual Go-Garnet-Go 15 night, and fans are encouraged -£. to wear white and garnet clothing. Tl:le Dutchmen will appreciate your support. Fobare's shot rolls wide Sophomore scoring machine, Tod Fobare, led an aggressive Dutchmen attack with three goals, providing leadership tc the offensive onslaught. Fobare opened the scoring after 5!1 seconds of the first period when he was fed the puck in front of the Oswego goal by his tough wingers, Bill Wall and Don Beall Oswego's scoring ace, Rick Pratt scored shortly after Fobare's goal to tie the game at one goal apiece. Fobare hit the twine once again at the nine-- minute mark with Don Beall and Bill Mason collecting assists. Momentumreached its height in the final period, as Oswego scored three goals to place them in a 6-6 deadlock with Union. Union center Brian Shea put his team back in command with his second goal of the year, on a pretty pass from freshman Kyle Woodman. Hoopers Edged in C.D .. Tourney Brad Nicholson put Union on top, 3-1, just a few minutes later on a powerful shot from the Then, with only 1 :24 remaining in the game, Oswego came back to tie the score at 7-7. Then Union received the main advantage as an Oswego player was sent off the ice for elbowing. Union had come to play and play they did. With only nine · seconds .left in the game, Joe Cat'uso received a Open 16 Game Season: By MIKE CANNING and JOHN JAROSAK The Union basketball squad entered the Capital District Tournament last weekend with a 2\2 Fecord. The Dutchmen played the Engineers from R.P.I. in the opening round and beat them soundly, 71-52. Host Women Cagers Optimistic The Union College women's basketball team began a 16- game season on Tuesday, January 13 as host to North Adams. Head coach Lynne Barta, who has a 21-25 record in three previous seasons at the helm, is optimistic about the upcoming campaign and is hopeful of qualifying for the New York State Tournament to be held at SUNY Stony Brook the weekend of February 27 and 28. \This year we have good depth in that we have talented players on the bench,\ ex- plained Barta. \I will be able to substitute in and out at any position and not lose anything on the court.\ The Dutchwomen have five players returning from last season's 6-11 team including senior Sheila O'Donnell. O'Donnell, who is in her fourth year on the squad and is also a highly regarded member of the volleyball and softball teams. Last year she led Union iii. scoring with 138 points in 13 ~-i Athlete of the ~J · ~~ Week The winter term's first winner of the Miller Athlete of the Week award is sophomore, Tod Fobare. Tod, who is a member of the Union College hockey team, demonstrated an unparalleled feat by scoring three goals against Division II leader, Oswego State. Oswego could not amass a defense capable of stopping the fleet skating center. Fobare blasted three crucial goals past a stunned Oswego netminder while leading his team to the upset victory. Complementing the Miller award, Fob~re also received the Capital District Athlete of ... ··,·: the Week award given by WRGB (Channel6). Besides this week's ac- complishments, he has also attained other honors in the past. He was voted All-State quarterback his senior year in high school. Also in the same year at his alma mater, Saranac Lake High School, he set .the Northern Athletic Conference hockey scoring record with 39 goals and 36 assists in 25 games. He is also thethird baseman on the Dutch- men basketball team. Tod is an economics major and a brother at the Chi Psi Fraternity. •• ili~!8tltj~: .. ·'' et· ~ Sophomore center Tod Fobare games, a 10.6 average. O'Donnell topped the 20-point mark three times last season and hit double figures in five contests. Also returning are junior Carol Wrenn, sophomore Brenda Hugick, sophomore Natalie 'Stone, and junior Anne Fitzmaurice. Wrenn and Hugick followed O'Donnell in scoring with 97 and 84 points respectively, while Stone tallied 57 markers and Fitzmaurice 31 in 10 games. Inexperience in the early season could be a problem for the Dutch women as seven of the 11-player team are freshmen: However, Barta is unconcerned for two reasons: the freshmen are talented, and the team came back early from the trimester break for double session preseason workouts. \This year was the first time since women's basketball was started in 1975 that the players have come back early for practice,\ explained Barta. \I think this has helped them gain the confidence they need and it gaveme more of an opporhmity to review our offenses and defenses with them. All the players roomed together during preseason and I think that went a long way in creating team unity.\ Union also has a break with its sche.dule as 10 of its 16 games will be played in Memorial Field House, including the first four. The Dutchwomen will also host the Capital District Tournament on February 20 and 21 with Albany State, RPI, and the-College of St. Rose as the other participants. Barta's team finished second in the event last year with a 60-55 loss to St. Rose in the final few minutes of the championship game. team Albany State disjrosed of visiting Springfield In the other semi-final game, to advance to the final round, along with Union. It was to prove to be a trernendou...;; final game. The contest featured the smaller, quicker Union team pitted against a taller, stronger Great Dane squad. The pattern had been played out many times in the past between these two rivals and the game was guaranteed to be a dog fight, a fight to the finish. The old saying that it's not the size of the dog in the fight that is important, but the size of the fight in the dog. In this par- ticular case, the Great Danes of Albany proved that being bigger doesn't hurt, because they beat Union, 65-61. Despite losing the game, Union Coach Bill Scanlon ex- pressed pride in his losing squad. \They played their guts out. I couldn't be any more proud of them if they. had won by four instead oflosing by four. It's the best game we've played all year. Maybe we're on our way now.\ Guards Joe Cardany, an all- tournament selection, and Joe Clinton contributed more than half of Union's points, with Cardany scoring 11 and Clinton 14. The game came down to the final 12 seconds, with U nl<m down, 63-61. An inbounds play was set up for center: John Montanile. But it never developed, as the inbounds pass sailed over his head and out of bounds. Albany took over possession and scored a final basket, making the score 65-61 and allowing the Danes to capture their third consecutive Capital District Tournament. In order to reach the final, the Dutchmen had to overcome a much bigger R.P.L squad. Coach Scanlon's team came out aggressively at the start both offensively and defensively, holding the rival Engineers to five points in the first eleven minutes, ..while scoring 18 of their own. The Dutchmen also weathered an R.P.l rally in the second half and eventually coasted to a 71-52 triumph. Union faces nationally ranked Rochester in an away game Wednesday night. If the ·· Dutchmen match last weekend's performance in the tournament, they should prove to be more than a match for the hosting Yellow Jackets. SPORTS HAPPENINGS Jan. 15-Jan. 22 Varsity Basketball J. V. Basketball Varsity Hockey J. V. Hockey Varsity Wrest! ing ~ Varsity Swimming Jan. 16 Plattsburgh Jan. 19 at Colgate JatJ. 21 Central Conn. Jan. 19 at Colgai'e Jan. 17 Babson Jan. 20· at Plattsburgh Jan. 22 Colby Jan. 16, 17, 18 Prep School - Tourney Jan. 22 Berkshire School Jan. 21 at Amherst Jan. 21 at Trinity GO GA.RNET GO NIGHT January 17th Saturday, 8:00 p.m. Achilles Rink Union's 11 5kating Dutchmen'' . \'\ 'lour· vs We.:; en~·~ ~efS - 4 r G ~o\set1' 3 Babson College WJ,; 1 !,.,e 1 t\ers . • . f-an Skating for Cerebral Palsy · ~oft\s Balloons Pennants· !... cu VI 0 !... IJJ >. '0 c: ~ >. ..c 0 .... 0 .c: a. - \ 1 ca te1 ar no m H< St al gi' Cc po e:x G: Wt AJ de p;; w• st: fo 19 D1 al d( fo th re bE a< Vi A• of th w of F

h n n y n r ' 0 t ·~·. to =~ o.. ·~·· .. _ . s: .. :au .. • January 22, 1981 Volume 110r Number 11 • Trustees Meet • Ill NYC Rudy Nydegger, faculty member of the College's Board of Trustees By NAOMI BLANK The College Board of Trustees completed the second of its four annual meetings in New York City last Wednesday, Jan. 1'4. The Board of Trustees is essentially the governing authority to educate at Union College. It sets policies for the school and the administration. 'Revenue projections were made by the Finance and Administration Office based on the experience of prior years and information currently available with respect to the various revenue items,' as stated in the \Highlights of Proposed Preliminary Budget For Fiscal Year 1981-198~\. The budget has been developed by the President and the Cabinet. Old Building, .New Name By SUSAN BLOOMBERG In the past few months, the campus has undergone ex- tensive amounts of renovation and reconstruction. Most notably is Becker Hall, for- merly referred to as Old Gym Hall. This project came about when Stanley R. Becker, a Union alumnus, became interested in giving a donation to Union CoU~ge. After examining the possibilities, Becker became - extremely interested in Old Gym Hall, which js now bet- ween 120 and 130 years old. After serving as a gymnasiwn, dormitories and offices over the past 120 years, Old Gym Hall was badly in need of recon- struction. Plans for Beclter Hall were formalized in the early spring of 1980~ under the con(ract of John Duguid and Sons. Presently, about $575,000 of the $750,000 donated by Stanley Becker has formally been handed over to the college. \The total cost of rebuilding Becker HaU will be between $380,000 and $390,000,\ according to John R. Hauser, Vice-President for Finance and Administration. The remainder of the donation will be put into the college endowment fund and will be used for operating costs of the building. Although most of the interior ·work has been completed, some further improvements will be made on the exterior Df Becker Hall in the spring. The basic design of the building is identic~; but major changes have been made on the interior of the buil(ting. The first floor, which has been occupied by Admissions since Jan. 5, has been completed. It is expected . that the work on the second floor, which . is occupied by Financial Aid, will be finished at the end of this week. 'l'here have been numerous changes in the building's in- terior. Jaclt J. f!ill, Director of Maintenance, commented that . \although the building ha'l the same square·footage, there has been a better utilization of space.\ · The first floor, which has the same layout, is totally com- prised of Admissions. The Academic Opportunity Program, which was formerly located in Old Gym Hall, has been moved to Bailey Hall. Major interior additions to the . building include a storage room, workroom, audio-visual room and conference room. While the changeover has caused many inconveniences, according to Kenneth A. Nourse, dean of admissions, 11 The Admissions Office has been able to stay on schedule.\ Facade of renovated Stanley F<. Becker Hall .. Dean Nourse admitted that the waiting period has had a definite impact on the Admissions Office, but at the same time, he seemed op- timistic about the new building. Finance of Administration Vice-President, John Hauser stated, \Presently it is im- pos~ible to judge Jtow effective the improvements will be. 'The true tesC wm· oe when those working in Becker Hall have been there for a few months.'' Social Committee: Debate on By JOEY BECKERMAN Winter term is traditionally a term of hibernation for Union students. The brutal cold does not provide much motivation for leaving the donn for social endeavors. This situation could prove disastrous for Winter Carnival. Many students do not realize the hard work that goes into planning a ~unction of the magnitude of Winter Carnival. What makes matters even more disheartening for the members of the Social Committee is that no one seems to appreciate their efforts. Betty Dwoskin and Cindi Hurley, co-chairpeople of Accompanying the Board of Trustees at the meeting were two faculty trustees and two student trustees. These junior and senior trustees \are the student interface with the Board. They inform the Board as to student opinion on the various issues,'' explained senior student trustee E.d Lonergan. At the Student Forum meetings, they then report to the students the oc- currences at Board meetings. Undergraduate day school tuition and room and board charges are being increased 13.4 percent over tnose presently in effe_!:!t. The ap- proved increases are as follows: Tuition is to be raised from $5,520 to $6,300, Housing costs (most common) will in- crease from $1,000 to $1,130 and Board {contract) will cost $1,170, increasing from $1;050, totalling $8,600. The January meeting also included the Election of the Board Officers. The slate was re-elected as follows: Chair- man-Dr. Richard G. Day, Jr., Vice-Chainnan-Mr. Thomas E. Hanigan, Jr., Secretary-Mr. Arthur M. Vash, and Counsel to the· Board-Arnold I. Burns. Tenurability was granted to Judith Ginsberg, William Zwicker,. and Peter Heinegg. ~Food service expenditures are . budgeted to increase by $96,000 or by 80 percent of the projected food revenue in- creased. (The other 20 percent of the increased revenues have been allocated to increase the Student Aid budget). Food Services are not budgeted to generate any surplus; as stated in the \Highlights of Proposed Preliminary Budget For Fiscal Year 1981-1982\. This preliminary budget also ex- plained that \a special provision is budgeted toward the replacement of the synthetic turf which will be installed on the new athletic field, scheduled to be completed by September 1, 1981. The estimated useful life used for replacement provision computation is ten years and the current cost is $406,000. Price changes will be con- sidered in future years as budgets are developed. These provisions will be transferred to the Plant Fund and funded on a current basis! In a memo to the members of the faculty and administration President Morris-also-statedirr regard to the asbestos, 1 Inorder to alleviate concerns that have been expressed the Board voted to have the ceilings in Fox and Davidson encapsulated this summer.\ This meeting of the Board of Trustees was the second of four . held annually. 'l'he first was held in the fall and the remaining two will take place in the spring. Winter Carnival the Social Committee, said that they do not mind the hard work. After all, that is why they took the job. However, as Betty said, \It's unfair to us to expend all this effort for next to nothing.\ In addition to their unrewarded hard work, Cindi and Betty cited two other reasons why the Social Com- mittee is considering not having Winter Carnival, although not a definite decision. Last year, the Social Committee sponsored the Winter Carnival Dance at a cost of $6,000, _after gate receipts, and had about 350 students of 2000 attend. Two years ago; over 500 students attended, this number constitutes a sell out. Last year's small turnout makes it seem that Winter Carnival was not worthwhile. One reason for this may be the IFC Ball, which is held at about the same time. Many fraternity members un- derstandably patronize their own ball and not the Winter Carnival Ball. However, as Cindi points out, every student pays a $33 social fee and it is the Social Committee's respon- sibilityto sponsor activities that all students would be interested in. Other Winter Carnival events, such as snow sculpture and tug-of-war on ice, also drew a small percentage of par- ticipation last year. Because of intramurals and hockey practice, an event like tug-of- war has to be scheduled in the early afternoon during class time, making it impossible for many students to participate. Students should not despair, however. Cindi and Betty said the Social Committee is con- sidering changing the procedure of Winter. Carnival. Instead of having a formal ball, an event like Night Club, which was very successful last term, is being considered as a replacement.~urtherrnore, the procedure for snow sculpture may be altered. Having a theme and offering a monetary prize are possibilities. A formal ball might be held this spring. The reason being, as Cindi stated, \With nice weather and no conflicting event like the IFC Ball, hopefully, more students would attend.\ Betty concluded that, 1 'we are looking for something that would be both more manageable to the Social Committee and more palatable to the campus as a whole. The Social Committee meets Monday nights at 7 p~m. in Carnegie Hall, third floor. Anyone with suggestions or criticisms of the . possible decision not to have Winter Carnival can attend. Welcome Home Hostages

Page 2 CONOORDIE_NSIS, January 22, 1981, Editorial: Activity Fee Should Rise Because of its inherent uncertainty, the future is never easy to plan for. Unforeseen situations and conditions can always arise to invalidate strategies that have been prepared to deal with impending af- fairs. Nowadays, this fact of life is especially true in financial matters. The recent past has seen un- precedented shocks that have jolted the economy and most of all its components, and it's anyone's guess what the future will hold. Nonetheless, ·this does not justify or explain the Student Forum's recent decision not to recommend to the College trustees or make provisions for any in- crease in the annual activities fee, which has stood at $99 since 1978-79. · Quite frankly, we're disappointed with this action, or lack thereof. At the very least, it's short-sighted; while it may be possibleto hold the line for another year by requiring student-funded activities to pull in their belts yet a little bit tighter, the rate of inflation will make an eventual increase in the fee inevitable. In this sense, the decision can also be considered irresponsible--to future students, who will have to. fend for themselves in this area, with no real guidance from the present Forum. Such guidelines could have been provided, we think, had the Forum recommended a schedule for future activity fee increases, say to match the annual in- crease in the cost of living, which has risen by more than 30 percent since the last hike in the fee, from $75 to $99 per year. Jim Fisher, the Forum's vice president for finances, explained the body's edict on this matter by noting that many of the groups that are now fully fun'ded by the Forum have limited appeal, with the result being that those who are members have what in effect are \subsidized hobbies.\ These groups, ap- parently, are the ones whose budgets would be slashed the most. We don't argue with this rationale. But it's still bound to upset the students who are affected. This reaction, too, is understandable. Because the purpose of the student activity fee is to fund activities in which students are involved. It is then the recipients' responsibility to prudently spend the funds so allocated--which now total some $200,000. Groups that don't meet this responsibility should be penalized, and have their budgets cut. But to somewhat arbitrarily limit the amount of money a group can receive because its membership is limited seems unfair. Worse yet, it is unnecessary. All that would have been required would have been a recommendation from the Forum for an increase in the activity fee now or in the near future. We hope that the appropriate student government leaders take this into account, and act accordingly at the first available opportunity. Position Open: Expand yourself, become an advertising manager for Concordiensis Call Jeff 382·2082 or leave a note addressed to Box 1000. BECOME INVOLVED! union • • ~concorOien&ltl Editors-in-Chief Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Associate Editor Paul Grossman News Editors' Joe Maguire, Gail Vanore Assistant News Editor Naomi Blank Features Editor Judi Chervenak Arts Editors Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Photo Editor Richard A. Sher Sports Editors Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Sports Photo Editor Steve Lerner Layout Editor Rachel I. Mandel Business Manager Jeff Scardino, Subscriptions Editor . Ellen Berg~r Calendar Editor Maria Manfredoma Staff MindyBroser, ClaireBurchill, Charis Richards Photo Staff Charis Richards, Kent Avery CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: . Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anyWhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. ~ ::··· ? •• .-~ -. ,-:.~,. ... , ~- .- '.~. /llt!s ·i~ .the ·tbJle,Qf··yeatt~t~t. those .. two d,;ead pt()]~ff;y, Yes,. the germ has . 9nc~. again hit Union College\ .·VANDALISM. I know. that with a. littl¢ preventive medicine~ BiZlta'-s opetnng· ~.v:ery:l)ne can heal the pock ,~(#iJtllih,•·:tltle, 0 rt¥sertt' ,;;~ark$ lett on Union•s face by- · thi~.,pest., Sot help save . your . .- . oPlleg!.l~\ :rather than tear her ,.. ,,,QQW: lP ke~p her· $afe and · · ····· ·. , beau ·· for·alt, · R w the pas· sele posi l]nd new Pre: Tho atte adn stuc witt role by I stuc In con1 botl stut taki hea1 pro1 be~ Acl

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, January 22) 1981 Editorial: Activity Fee Should Rise Because of its inherent uncertainty, the future is never easy to plan for. Unforeseen situations and conditions can always arise to invalidate strategies that have been prepared to deal with impending af- fairs. Nowadays, this fact of life is especially true in financial matters. The recent past has seen un- precedented shocks that have jolted the economy and most of all its components, and it's anyone's guess what the future will hold. Nonetheless, ·this does not justify or explain the Student Forum's recent decision not to recommend to the College trustees or make provisions for any in- crease in the annual activities fee, which has stood at $99 since 1978-79. Quite frankly, we're disappointed with this action, or lack thereof. At the very least, it's short-sighted; while it may be possible to hold the line for another year by requiring student-funded activities to pull in their belts yet a little bit tighter, the rate of inflation will make an eventual increase in the fee inevitable. In this sense, the decision can also be considered irresponsible--to future students, who will have to- fend for themselves in this area, with no real guidance from the present Forum. Such guidelines could have been provided, we think, had the Forum recommended a schedule for future activity fee increases, say to match the annual in- crease in the cost of living, which has risen by more than 30 percent since the last hike in the fee, from $75 to $99 per year. Jim Fisher, the Forum's vice president for finances, explained the body's edict on this matter by noting that many of the groups that are now fully fun.ded by the Forum have limited appeal, with the result being that those who are members have what in effect are \subsidized hobbies.\ These groups, ap- parently, are the ones whose budgets would be slashed the most. We don't argue with this rationale. But it's still bound to upset the students who are affected. This reaction, too, is understandable. Because the purpose of the student activity fee is to fund activities in which students are involved. It is then the recipients' responsibility to prudently spend the funds so allocated--which now total some $200,000. Groups that don't meet this responsibility should be penalized, and have their budgets cut. But to somewhat arbitrarily limit the amount of money a group can receive because its membership is limited seems unfair. Worse yet, it is unnecessary. All that would have been required would have been a recommendation from the Forum for an increase in the activity fee now or in the near future. We hope that the appropriate student government leaders take this into account, and act accordingly at the first available opportunity. Position Open: Expand yourself, become an advertising manager for Concordiensis Call Jeff 382-2082 or leave a note addressed to Box 1000. BECOME INVOLVED! Editors-in-Chief Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Associate Editor Paul Grossman News Editors• Joe Maguire, Gail Vanore Assistant News Editor Naomi Blank Features Editor Judi Chervenak Arts Editors Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Photo Editor Richard A. Sher Sports Editors Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Sports Photo Editor Steve Lerner Layout Editor Rachel I. Mandel Business Manager Jeff Scardino. Subscriptions Editor . Ellen Berg~r Calendar Editor Marta Manfredoma Staff Mindy Broser, Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Photo Staff Charis Richards, Kent Avery CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehan:oa Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDmNSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. To tJte Edit-ors: Sincerely yours, Sherry Laitman New Diversion Offered To the Editors: Caryn Opengart and Kevin Snover in the course of their article (ln the Great Indoors. in Cone01~Uiensis, Jan. 15) have stated that the best bet for Union .students during the winter term i...;;; to stay indoors. wateh T.V .• eat pizza and drink. While these activities may be on occasion great fun, after _The. Brothers of Delta· Phi Fraternity- are proud to an· nuun()t':l the winners of their annual Christmas Raffle for the benefit of the Schenectady Boys H-Qme. Those lucky people who will receive their choice of a quart of liquor are Nia Cholakis, Patty Callaghan, David Krueger, Ivan Gjaja, Larry Navia..':lkY and Twls. Also at thi<; time we would like to thank all those people who bought tickets enabling us to continue to have· this party for these .b()ys. They look fDrward to it and really enjoy them~ selves. It's a very satisfying ex:perience for all involved. We coUldn't do it without the help of the campus community. Thank ~u. The Brothers of Delta Phi Policy on Pizza? To the Editor: several of thes~ se..<Ssions you'll Upon my return to Union soon begin t?discover that you . from a term abroad, I was both are develop1ng that depressed surprised and pleased to bear of and trapped--in. feeling· men· the administration's new policy tioned in the article~ . tm specials in the Skellar and Take heart, for this dreary Pub: Certainly youngsters aged sort of existence need not 18 to 22 are not yet at a point in continue for students at Union their lives at which they can College. The Union Q.uting make responsible decisions Club is more active than ever about drinking. It is high time this winter term and has thil that those in charge assume a largest membership in its greater role in determining history. ·cros.ll·country skiin,g on; what .students should and should a moonlit night, downhill skiing not do in their free time. in the largest moUntains in the Discouraging drinking 1 through East, walking on beautiful the elimination of speCials, is a frozen rivers; snowshoeing in very positive step toward peaceful forests on four feet of assuming this greater role. fresh snow and climbing up However, a problem even !$,000 feet mountains (~'the' greater than the drinking higher you get, the higher you problem has arisen. Yes, I'm get~t}are just a small sampling talking about the ''pizza ofUOC's trips for this. winter. problem:'' From the day of :Sest of all, going on a trip Duteh Hollow Pizza's opening with the Outing Club is cheap. A through the present there has cost ~omparison: One six.,pack been a constant and noticeable of beer and one large Pub Pizza improvement in the quality of · cost at least $7. An entire day of the pizzas made ther,e. The . (!ro_:Ss-co. u~try ~kii.ng with t~e pizza is really quite g<lod now. Umon Outmg CLub anywhere m Unlike the Skel1ar and Pub, the northeastern mountains which have raised prices above c~sts nothing! You ask, \how is those charged in many off· thts possible?\ Well,. the UOC campus bars (especially those o-wns Its own equipment for all in Saratoga where there are to· . ... . pizza abutse;\ · Ue · sol~tion . to tile ~p.It~a problem is a simple one, Prices D11J.'it be rai~d. While th!s tiiighUead.iJJanr studentstq.off. <:anipus piiza parlors and in- . crease the cllance of UniQn Stude~t~. ge-ttbJg, arrested for D.W.I.P (driving while under the influent;:#;! ofpizza), this is a relatively s:m;Ml price to pay. PLEASE! h~fore . people get any_ fatter\ befl}xe. my friends kul each .Qt'her over that eighth piece 1 before there is one more pizza related accident 1 do somethingt Stttdents, cannot make intelligent. decisions Dn pizza use. I llfge the ad- ministration to exert all pressures possible to raise prices in Dutch Hollow pizza. Discourage pizza .abu...,e before it's too late. Sincerely, Robert J. Feinberg 382-9272 • Prevent Vandalism To the Editor: This i,.t; the time of year that those two dread diseases transverse tlje Union College· community. The first one we. are all familiar with by its true · name: INFLUENZA. Unfor- tunately for the student body, (pun), the second illness is a master of disgllise. It can disguise itself to appear as fun .. It could be called :rowdine.r;s by some. Besides its expertise at camouflage., this sickness should be fought for another reason; it has no known an· tibiotic. There is no cure as of yet, because the doctors cannot find a virus. What is this terrible malady that sounds worse than the plague? It has no na:me, but its symptoms ·are quite well defined. You can recognize them when--Very Anonymously Destructive, . Alarmingly~. Intoxicated, · Sadistic Minds--destroy property. Yes, the germ has once again hit Union College: VANDALISM. I know that with • a little preventive medicine, everyone can heal the pock marks left on Union's face by this pest. So, help save your · colleg.e, rather than tear her down; help keep her safe and beautiful for all . As Always, Your Servant, T.G.A.F.?. R Vi the pas sele pos Um neVI Pre Tho atte adr stu( witl rolE by stw Ir con botl stw tak he a pro be i Ac

Page 3 ' Roth ·Named ·Associate Dean: ~y JILL BRYCE William Roth, chairman of the Biology Department for the past 12·112 years, has been selected to fill the newly created position, of Associate Dean. for Undergraduate Studies. This new position, created by Vice President af Academic Affairs Thomas J. D' .Andrea, is an attempt at a Uason amo11g the admi11istration, facu:lty and students. Since Roth is familiar with Union, he hopes to play a role i.n achninistrative matters by reflecting both faculty and student concerns. In .hi's new position, Roth will continue to work closely With both pre-medical and pte-dental students at Union as well as taking onmore responsibility as head of the six-ye!lr medical program. In addition, Roth will be involved in recruiting for the Academic Opportunity Program {AOP) .. This progrl;u:n en~bles minollity students to take courses at Union in the summer. They continue with a lighter course load during the regular year, making their adjustment to Union somewhat easier. Roth admits that it is hard to find qualified minority students to. take part in this program. In his new position, Roth will als.o workboth withthe Students Affairs Council, and' for the accredidation review for engtne e:ring ass-istance. A..c;sistant Dean of Faculty Alan D. Nelson and llene Kaplan will work closely with Roth to insure a different approach with more input and broadftr vieWpoints toward the problems at Union. There will be no full time Dean of Faculty for eventually Roth, Nelson and Ka.plan wHl collectively replace this D:utch Hollow Pub This Weekend: Frida-y & Saturday Night 5:30-7:30 BEEF&BREW - free sa~lad bar, pitcher of beer or carafe of wine with each mea.l The Rathskellar Proudly Announces It's ••welcome Home Hostages'' Celebration on Friday 4-7 p.m. Pabst 25c glass $1.00 pitcher position. Each was appointed by D'Andrea because he believes it is important that pe().ple familiar with Union rather than str<tngers work in this position. Also, each is half-time faculty member which will maintain the'ir interaction with students and Will reflect both faculty and student concerns in ad~ ministrative matters. Since Roth has taken on this new position as Associate -Dean for Undergraduate Studies, Prof. FranCis Lambert will act as Chairman of the Biol()gy Department untU a re-ap- pointment next summer. Although Roth is \'ap- prehensive\ about his n.e·w position, he is ''enthusiastic to work along these lines. \ He stresses that regardless of his new title he will not abandon his unfinished duties as chairman of the Biology Department and will continue his interest . in biology faculty and students. As for his new position as A'lsociate Dean for Undergraduate Studies, Roth urges and welcomes any suggestions from students and faculty. '- Q) <II ·o '- co >- -c c: :E >- ..0 0 0 -a !&-, William Roth, newly named Associate Dean for un- dergraduate studies· Computer Game-Playing By STEVEN LERNER Last week, the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), alias· the Computer Club, sponsored its first event· of the year: Computer Games Night. Attending were Fortran students working on their first programs, (who were at the computer center quite coin- cidently), as well as computer game connoisseurs who wanted to take a crack at defeating the KlingQn invasion force in one or more of the several Star Trek games available. Of course the BurroughS: B- 6805 was not the only computer available for club use on games night. Also present were one Radio Shack TRS-80, one Intercolor 3621, one ))en- tiSystem, and three Apple a;_ (!) c: '- (!) ..1 c: (!) > Cll (';) >.. .0 0 0 .c: c. computers. These microcomputers, bigger than a breadbox and much resembling portable typewriters with small black-and-white or color television screens, are among the most popular home com- puters on the market today. In addition to the three ver- sions of Star Trek, these \in- telligent'' machines played such f-avorites as blackjack, hangman, space invaders, and many other card and space-war games. Students were also able to play simulated pinball games and examine their biorhythms without feeding quarters into the machines. Free donuts and soda were also available for those whose spirit of computer competition required an energy boost. The ACM would like to thank Students use on-campus computers to pli\\.Y games last week the Computer Center and especially Julie Swant, Ted Schwarz, George Williams, David Hannay, Scott Levine, Bill Williams, and Cliff Farmer for cutting the red. tape and making available the various computing facilities and soft- ware. Thanks also to Chris Florek for providing tran- sportation. The ACM plans two speakers during the remainder of the term: Lawrence A. Smith will lecture on \Logical Data Base Design\ on Feb. 3 and Stanley A. Kurzban will talk about ''Programming and Data Security\ on March 4. Watch for future announcements as to the times and locations of these lectures. Both ACM members and nonmembers are invited. Secu;rity Procedures Announced In the past, the Campus Police Communications Center has been located in the Main· tenance Buildigg and the Campus Information Center was located in the Security and Safety Department Office. The Information Center and the Communications Center did not share common hours of operation, and confusion developed as to where a com* plaint could be . made. This problem was particularly acute during late evening hours. Additionally, the Campus Information Center closed between midnight and 8 a.m. Begiiming this term the Campus Information Center has been relocated in the Campus Police Communications Center. The new Campus Police Communications and . Infor- mation Center will be open 24 hours a day, seven days a week for the entire year. The Com- munications and Information Center is located just inside the front door of ·the Maintenance Building. The Security and Safety Department Office, located above the Rathskeller, will only be open between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, and will be closed weekends and holidays. 'Emerg~ncies can be reported and complaints made at the Communications and Infor- mation Center, or by calling 370- 6178. Information can be ob- tahled by calling 37()..6000. This change will enable the Security and Safety Depart· ment to increase the services it offers, once the college com- munity becomes acclimated to the Communications and ·Information Center.

CONCORDIENSIS, January ie2, 1981 Pag~ s Roth :Named Associate Dean Ry.JILLBRYCE William Roth, chairman of the Biol()gy Department for the past 12 11 2 years, has been selected b fill the newly created position, of Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies. This new positi()n, created by Vice Presidertt of Academic Affairs Thomas J. D'Andrea, is an attempt at a liason among the administration:, :faculty and students. Since Roth is familiar with Unlon, he hopes to play a role in adinirtistrative m.atters by reflecting both faculty and student co11cerns. In his 11ew position, Roth will continue t{) work closely with both pre-medical and pre-dental students at Union as well: as taking on more responsibility as nead of the six:-year medical program. In addition, Roth will be involved in recruiting for the Acadern:i c Opportunity Program ( AOP). This program enables minority students to take courses at Union in the summer. They continue with a lighter course load during the regular year, making their adjustment to Union somewhat easier. Roth admits that it is hard to find qualified minority students to take part in this program. In his new position, Roth will also work both with the Students Affairs Council, and for the accredidation review for engineering assistan c·e. Assistant Dean of Faculty Alan D. Nelson and Ilene Kaplan will work closely with Roth to insure a different approach with more input and broader viewpoints toward the problems at Union. There will be no full time Dean of Faculty for eventually Roth, Nelson and Kaplan will collectively replace this Dutch Hollow Pub This Weekend: Fr·idoy & Saturday Night 5:30-7:30 BEEF & BREW - free salad bar, pitcher of beer or carafe of wine with each meal The Rathskellar Proudly Announces It's ••welcome Home Hostages'' Celebration on Friday 4 .. 7 p.m. Pabst 25c glass $1.00 pitcher position. Each was appomted by D'Andrea because he believes it is important that people familiar with Union rather than strangers work in this position. Also, each is half-time faculty member which will maintain their interaction with students and will reflect both faculty and student concerns in ad- ministrative matters. Since Roth has taken on this new position as Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies, Prof. Francis Lambert will act as Chairman of the Biology Department until a reap- pointment next summer. Although Roth is \ap- prehensive\ about his new position, he is ''enthusiastic to t work along these lines.\ He :g 1... stresses that regardless of his m new title he will not abandon his >- unfinished duties as chairman -g of the Biology Department and ~ will continue his interest in >- biology faculty and students. As ~ for his new position as Associate 0 !1» Dean for Undergraduate -5. Studies, Roth urges and welcomes any suggestions from students and faculty. WilHam · Roth, newly named Associate Dean for un- dergraduate studies Computer Game-Playing By STEVEN LERNER Last week, the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), alias the Computer Club, sponsored its first event of the year: Computer Games Night. Attending were Fortran students working on their first programs, (who were at the computer center quite coin- cidently), as well as computer game connoisseurs who wanted to take a crack at defeating the Klingon invasion force in one or more of the several Star Trek games available. Of course the Burroughs B- 6805 was not the only computer available for club use on games night. Also present were one Radio Shack TRS-80, one Intercolor 3621, one Den- tiSystem, and three Apple 1... QJ c 1... QJ ...J c QJ > QJ ,._ (f) >- .0 0 0 li computers. These microcomputers, bigger than a breadbox and much resembling portable typewriters with small black-and-white or color television screens, are among the most popular home com- puters on the market today. In addition to the three ver- sions of Star Trek, these \in- telligent\ machines played such favorites as blackjack, hangman, space invaders, and many other card and space-war games. Students were also able to play simulated pinball games and examine their biorhythms without feeding quarters into the machines. Free donuts and soda were also available for those whose spirit of computer competition required an energy boost. The ACM would like to thank Students use on-campus computers to pl~y games last week the Computer Center and especially Julie Swant, Ted Schwarz, George Williams, David Hannay, Scott Levine, Bill Williams, and Cliff Farmer for cutting the red tape and making available the various computing facilities and soft- ware. Thanks also to Chris Florek for providing tran- sportation. The ACM plans two speakers during the remainder of the term: Lawrence A. Smith will lecture on \Logical Data Base Design\ on Feb. 3 and Stanley A. Kurzban will talk about \Programming and Data Security\ on March 4. Watch for future announcements as to the times and locations of these lectures. Both ACM members and nonmembers are invited. Security Procedures Announced In the past, the Campus Police Communications Center has been located in the Main· tenance Building and the Campus Information Center was located in the Security and Safety Department Office. The Information Center and the Communications Center did not share common hours of operation, and confusion developed as to where a com- olaint could be made. This problem was particularly acate during late eventng hours. Additionally, the Campus Information Center closed between midnight and 8 a.m. Beginning this term the Campus Information Center has been relocated in the Campus Police Communications Center. The new Campus Police Communications and Infor- mation Center will be open 24 hours a day, seven days a week for the entire year. The Com- munications and Information Center is located just inside the front door of the Maintenance Building. The Security and Safety Department . Office, located above the Rathskeller, will only be open between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, and will be closed weekends and holidays. Emergencies can be reported and complaints made at the Communications and Infor- mation Center, or by calling 370· 6178. Information can be ob- tained by calling 37()..6000. This change will enable the Security and Safety Depart- ment to increase the services it offers, once the college com· munity becomes acclimated to the Communications and Information Center.

Page4 OONOORDI~NSIS, January 2~, 1981 College Entrance Hard, By God! PRINCETON, NJ - God has applied to Princeton. Hoping to be accepted to the Class of 1985, God wrote a ''personal statement\ sent in December to the Princeton Admissions Office that He would like to \experience first· hand what college life is presently like.\ He added that it did not seem right that He listen in on courses when He has not been admitted. The application was brought to the attention of James Wickenden, director of ad· missions, who reported to the Princeton Weekly Bulletin that the candidate entered his name only as \God.\ In describing Himself, God checked both male and female for gender and checked all possible ethnic origins, in addition to writing \You name it!\ next to the ethnic origin response marked \other.\ Wickenden said he was not surprised at the applicant's test scores, which included perfect 800s on both the math and verbal portions of the SAT. However, He ha(ln't fared quite as well on the College Entrance Examination Board's achievement tests. An error on the relativity question on the physics achievement test dropped the score to only 760. On the application, though, God resolutely maintained \Ein- stein is wrong,\ perhaps proving that to err is divine. In biology, He scored 770 because His answers 011 the evolution question were also marked as incorrect. In the essay portion of the application, God wrote His academic and intellectual in- terests included \discreetly helping people and listening t() .prayers. HI take advantage of dreams and apparent accidents or mistakes (the realization of the structu1:e of benzene and the discovery of penicillin are good examples of each) and get to be of service to mankind,\ he elaborated. Also included in his \non- academic .activities\ were \arranging the weather,\ which takes up 168 hours each week, as does ''listening . to prayers.'' Additionally, God reported spending 14 hours per week ''turning day into night\ and another 14 ''turning night into day.\ Although a federal privacy statute dictates that Wickenden cannot release any information contained in admissions ap- plications, he totd the Weekly Bulletin he thought it ap· propriate in this case to \be responsive to a higher law.\ He acknowledged that tnis . ap- plication was ''tbe first ·of its kind\ that he had seen. \A couple (}f fictitious ap- plications have been submitted over the years~\ he said, ''but most were of a different nature because they involved human applicants.\ The admissions office has no idea where the applications came from, but said that the question received much speculatiDn from students. The director has D()t received any applications involving fictitious persons since that time, and doe~ not expect that this in- cident will trigger any other practical jokes. ''Everyone regarded it for what it was: a clever ruse,\ he said. \I hope it made people laugh.\ In releasing the information about the candidate, Wick:enden noted that separate application had been included in the en- velope. Even God, it seems, cannot escape £ertain . human conditions. He applied for financial aid. Schenectady residen,ts completing Adirondack di·splay they helped arrange. Library Exhibit Opens· A special exhibit of rare -Adirondack materials is now on display at Schaffer Ubrary. Featuring some of the more tmique holdings of the recently established Adirondack Research Center, located on the library's fourth floor, the exhibit wil'l be on display through Stmday, Feb. 15, during regular library hours (8:30 to 11 p.m. Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday, and noon to 11 p.m. Sunday). The exhibit highlights establishment of the Adiron- dack Research Center, .a . repository for research materials and Adironda-ck memorabilia. All of the Center's materials, including books, films, magazines, slides, and tapes of oral history, are available fQr use by area writers and persons resear- ching the Adirondack region. Also featured in the exhibit are: -The Archives of the Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks, with selected items illustrating the active work pf this organization in conservation affairs since 1901. These documents are currently housed in the Research Center; -The work of. Verplank Colvin, superintendent of the Adirondack survey. Included with a number of rare · manuscripts is a copy of his First Report to the Legislature, along with maps, illustraUons, and an original sketch he drew of the first survey party at work upon. Bald Peak, above Lake Champlain; ~Old and new Adirondack maps. Featured are two ex- tremely rare . maps: the. early 19th century Burr Atlas of New York State, from the Union College collection, and a map of· Lake Champlain, published in London in 1776. -:-Selections from the papers of local conservationist John S. Apperson. In 1939, Apperson purchased Dome Island in .Lake George to save it from development, and he later donated the property to the Nature Conservancy. He also fought . many attempts by private interests and legislators to weaken the \forever wild\ - provisions of the State Con• stitution. Apperson .papers have recently been donated to the Research Center; -{)fficial publications of the State Department of Environmental Conservation, the Adirondack Park Agency, and the Adirondack Highway Council. The exhibit also includes an illuminated . display of Adirondack rocks, prepared by Vincent Schaefer, .former director of · the Atmospheric Sciences Research Center at the State University of New York at Albany. Recreational use of the Adirondack Park is illustrated with a collection- of hiking equipment and copies of Tran Guides, published by the Adirondack Mountain Club. Survey Results At registration this winter, the Film, Social and Concert Committees and the Speakers Forum took a survey to determine student body in- terests. The results turned in by .the Speakers Forwn show that: top choices were All That Jazz (1'93 votes), Airplane (178 votes) and The Rose (111 votes). This part of the survey received 1,400 votes. The Concert Committee, attempting to ascertain what type of concert Union students McCord Presents Paper The three top choices for a speaker during winter term were Jane Fonda (488. votes), Andrew Young (304 votes) and F. Lee Bailey (301 votes). Jack Anderson was close behind with 297 votes. Charlton Heston was far and away the first ·choice for Parents' Weekend with 650 votes. Dr. Benjamin Spock, the second choice, received 395 votes. These results reflect the preference of the 1,033 students who voted. . wanted to see, learned that ·~other rock\ (273 votes) was the favorite, but not by much. Southern Rock · received 268 votes and New Wave, 249 votes. Jazz and hard rock received 214 and 211. votes respectively and comedy trailed behind with 141 votes. The campus was equally split on whether to have 2 or 3 small concerts ( 431 votes) or one large one ( 446 votes). James D. McCord, assistant professor of English here, presented . a paper at the National Convention of the Modern Language Association, held Dee. 27 to 30 in Houston, Tex. The paper, '&William Blake's Systematically Unsystematic View of Childhood Education in Songs of Innocence,\ was given for a special session on \Depictions of Childhoo.d in Romantic and Modern Literature.\ In his paper, McCord suggests that \Blake's primary strategy in So11gs of Innocence is to ask unanswerable questions, pose unsolvable problems, and generate inqqiry about meanings rather than . posit meanings.'' McCord continues, \Maybe Blake did not intend us to un- derstand Songs· of lililocenee in terms of any system of thought. Maybe Blake wanted nothing less than to force us to challenge all our accepted ideas about what it means to be human, and what it means to be social, which would also require us to reconsider thoroughly the - relationship between human life James McCord, Assistant Professor of English --~ ~ ......................... _ ........... .,_ .... \'\'\'~· ... .. and the socio-politico-religious systems we create in order to explain and give value to our lives and actions. \Assuming this is true,\ McCord concludes, \Balke's chief objective would be to implicate as well as engage the · reader-viewer in his work-not for the sake of. learning the answers, but for the sake of learning that the process of thinking inquisitively and critically is the surest \humanizing\ activity we can participate in.\ • • >. \.'i\• •• The favorite film for spring term was easiily ' the Deer Hunter with 306 votes. The other The Social Committee reports that people are happy with their activities to date but would like to see more dances in the future. Student Fo-rum Discusses: Alcohol Prohlen1? The Student Forum, during its Monday meeting, heard reports from the Student Activities Council (SAC), the InterFraternity Council (IFC) _and the class trustees. · According to Vern Wetmore, senior representative, a meeting Was scheduled for Wednesday concerning alcohol on campus. Housing will distribute a questionnaire to students to see if students think there are problems with alcohol on campus. The council will go over the questionnaire at the Wednesday meeting. Two proposals were made: the SAC would like to look into the procedure of- the self· sc~eduling of examiqations, whiCh some other schools practice. The SAC would also like to know students' views on Wednesday classes. The IFC had its first meeting. According to Tony Klocken• brink, president of the cnuncil, the IFC Ball will be held on February 21 at the Americana. Also discussed were problems with fraternity meal plans and how the council would like to resolve that. Ed Lonergan, senior trustee, reported that the trustees met in New York City last Wen- desday. Three items in par- ticular were settled. \The asbestos problem was taken ~are of,\ reported Lonergan. The method of capsulation was chosen: the surface is sprayed penetrating through th~ ceiling.\ There was a vote to raise tuition, room and board to an estimated $.8600. Tenure was given to Peter Heinegg, Assistant Professor of English, and William Zwicker, Assistant Professor of Mathematics. Tenure was confirmed to Judith Ginsberg, Assistant Professor of Spanish. The Forum concluded its . meeting with a cake for Will Lloyd, junior trustee .. in honor of his birthday. ( ll t (J J I I ' r r c g d

y ' OONOORDIENSIS~ JanWLry :e:e, 1.981 Page 5 Baby, It's Cold Outside! Snovv 'i·s everywhere North Is Cold By A. J. BRODSKY For some in North College, heat is a rare commodity. The east side of North, including Brenner House, has been compared by some to a sub- freezing wasteland. Katie Martin, head resident adviser of North, responding to a barrage of complaints, presented the problem to Dave Wood, director of housing. He in turn initiated action in cooperation with Jack H. Hill, Director of Campus Operations. Katie said that the problem began at the end of last term and \we had to harp on them a lot, but in the end they were responsive.\ Although students living in North have been the ones most affected by lack of heat, the problem has not been limited to there. Residents of West College have also complained of chilly interior temperatures this term. . ''It can be nice and warm at night when you go to sleep,\ said one student who lives in West, \but by the next morning it can get really cold.\ Several times, he noted, the dorm's inside temperatures have seemed to fall into the fifties. Chapel Clock Frozen The problem, according to Hill, stems from a combination of factors. Bitter cold, coupled with the physical set up of each room, has been causing the eseape of heat from the building. Large windows, fireplace dampers, and leaky windowseals have let what little heat there was flow out. But broken convectors and ther- mostats have been the main culprits. Hill says \work is being done on the systems, but has not been completed yet.\ What appears to be needed is a total revamping of the heating system of North College. Phasie three is supposed to include major steam tunnel work, but as Hill pointed out, it will have to wait until warmer weather. The official date for completion is June 1 of· this year. This aspect of phase three also af- fects Carnegie, Becker, and Silliman Halls, as well as the Administrat~on Building, Alumni Gyri)., and Memorial Chapel. The other major project that would affect heating in North is the expansion of the Heating Plant, establishing a dual capabilicy fer bttrning either gas or oil. On the clock atop Memorial Chapel, time has stood still for about the past . t:wo weeks-at twenty minutes. after ten o'clock. That is because one of · the clock's gear boxes· stopped working, a victim of the recent spate of cold temperatures.As a result, the familiar chimes that play every quarter hour· have not been heard as of late. \It was a combination of the clock's age and the cold weather,\ said Smiley Lum- pkin, who was appointed College horologist (keeper of the clocks) this fall. After it stcu>ped working, Prof. C. William Huntley, who tak~s a special interest in historic preservation, inspected the clock's mechanisms and found them under a heavy covering of frost. Until this .year,· th~ clock's three gears were kept warm during the winter by the heat that escaped from Memorial Chapel But the ·building was insulated .in the last year,· reducing its heating bill, but also causing the clock works to be left .to th~ elements. The frozen gear box was removed from the clock this Monday and is now under repair, Lumpkin reported. He added that this was not the first time the clock, which went into service shortly after the chapel Frosh Rep. Elections Elections for the two Fresh- man Class Representative positions to the Student Fonun will take place next Monday, Jan. 26. If necessary, run-offs will be held Thursday, Jan 29. Here are three candidates' platform statements: Thomas F· Gengo, Jr. As your freshman represent3:tive, I plan to make myself available to you so. you can express your opinions and griefs. One of the major disappointments I have noticed is the lack of school spirit present among freshmen. I would hope to induce and develop a .greater school spirit and involvement among my classmates. Thank you. Timothy J. Smith During the last few years I have been actively involved in student government. Those years have taught me about the problems of representing a class body, and have strengthened IllY opini<m that the most important aspect of having Freshmen Represe~· tatives in the Student Forum lS to provide an official outlet for the concerns of our class. On some issues there exists a very large difference between the opinions of other classes and the freshman class. This stems~ more than anything else~ from our perspectives. Seniors have concerns about Union for the next half of the year; freshmen have concerns about Union policies for the next three and a half years. Although it would be im- possible for me to say what issues will be of greatest im- portance this year, it is possible for me to share my intention that, as. your representative, I would seek to represent your views rather than my own. As your representative, I would openly encourage and solicit your conunents and questions.· Finally, I must confess that I realize student government at Union does not hold the active attention of many students. But, through open conununication I would seek to be accessible to you so that when (and if) any questions arise I would be able to channel these concerns to an official organi~ation. In this way I hope to best serve the various wishes of the claSs·of '84. Continued on .page .8 was built, in 1925, had gone out of service. While it is under repair, methods of keepiqg the clock works functioning during the winter will be investigated. For example, a new kind of grease for the gears has been ordered that stays supple at tem- peratures down to 35 degrees below zero farenheit. This means the clock should. soon- be working again, along with the chimes that play four bells at quarter past the hour, eight bells at half past, 12 bells at qu~rter to and 16 bells on the hour, when the appropriate .number of bells are also struck to indicate the time of day. What has been done is the repairing of the faulty con- vectors, the caulking and weatherstripping of windows, and the sealing of the dampers. Additionally, space heaters have been supplied. This ·work is being done by three private contractors--the Barber, Coleman Co., Campito Plum- bing and Heating Inc., and Power Controls. The work, scheduled- for completion this week, is part of \phase three\ of Hill's facilities modification program. As of this Tuesday there were still several rooms in North having heating· dif- ficulties. Imagine yourself creating a simulator that duplicates in 3-D any Another heat-related problem found in some places is not the lack of heat, but the overabundance .of it. Near-oasis conditions may be found in every major dorm. Hill ex- plained \that throughout campus, hot and cold floors are due to the \temperature control systems not working properly.\ One of the tasks of the con- tractors is to upgrade these controls. It is imperative to correct this heat loss .if any attempt to curb rising school costs is to be successful. a pilot might experience. You can do it at Hughes Support Systems. We also support all of Hughes Aircraft Company with a vast assortment of advanced electronic systems - lasers, satellites, radars, electro-optics. and thermal imaging, to name a few. We offer one of the finest continuing education programs in the country and a world of other benefits. Imagine yourself at Hughes. See your placement office for an appointment. At Hughes, your future is limited only by your •\\~~~· ilna:atlc»r r-------~----------, I I i HUGHES: I I L------------------J HUGHES AI.RCRAFT COMPANY SUPPORT SYSTEMS Proof ol u.s. Clllzenahlp Ae(lulred Equal OpportUnity Emp~oyer Hughes Aircraft Company, Support Systems Group, P.O. Box 90515, Los Angeles, CA 90009.

Page 6 OONOORDIENSI8, January 2$,~ 1981 ·arts culture A Warm Night at Caba,ret By D.M. PONTISAKOS I don't know--maybe I'm biased because each performer slipped me a 20 dollar bill before the show, but I thought Cabaret was amazing last Thursday night. We got off to a great start with MC Dan Lacoff as quick-witted and as poised as ever. Dan is great. His casual presence and his refreshing, spontaneous humor are impressive. He just can't help it-he's a natural! He has a line for every situation, can top any heckler, and got the rwening off to a hot start with an 1musing satirical bit about what pledge initiation can be for certain fraternaties. Dan, I would have loved to hear your ideas about what the two sororities do ... and why didn't you mention Sigma Phi? This brings us to Chris GayMr's group (Paul Sabatino on bass, Clint Sours on drums, Jodi Cohen on vocals, Melissa Gold on piano, and Ghris DelSignore on guitar), who played mostly Jackson Browne and James Taylor tunes. Overall, the group was very good, especially for a newly- formed group with no prior experience. Chris Gaynor, Jodi Cohen, and Melissa Gold . who filled-in on piano at the last minute for the group's regular pianist, are to be especially commended. Chris carried us away with his vocal charac- terization and his ability to get carried away himself with the songs and the lyrics he sang and to ad lib with an ease you don't normally see in a person who has never done this kind of thing before. Especially exciting for all was his rendition of \Steamroller\ by James Taylor, especially when funky Jim Etkin joined in with his harmonica. My ears died and went straight to heaven. AMAZING. We used to tease him- The Big Man. With his curly hair On the Jackson Browne tunes such as Sweet Baby Blues and Here Come Those Tears, Chris sounded just like Jackson himself. I couldn't believe it. EspedaHy impressive was Chris' diction and ability to put across Jackson's powerful lyrics which are often lost by others who perform his work. The only real problem with the group's performance was that for the size of the Cabaret room, drummer Clint Sours, although fine rhythmically was playing too loudly, and as a result just overpowered guitarist Chris DelSignore. It was upsetting not to be able to hear the guitar at all in the James Taylor and Jackson Browne numbers, as the guitar parts in those songs can be very exciting. Also, I would've liked to hear Jodi Cohen's lovely soprano voice used more throughout the group's per- formance-maybe a solo for her would've been nice. In addition, on a couple of songs that Jodi and Chris harmonized, I would've -liked to hear some middle~pitched voice-perhaps Melissa's alto voice-- completing, balancing, and splidifying the chords. Well, as if this performance wasn't enough, the second act of Cabaret .. Mary Bonk-Vasko and Peter Perrone-carried me even further away. Between Mary's outrageous voice and strong feel for what she is singing and Peter's impressive 12-string guitaring,the rest of me died and followed my ears straight up to the pearly, pearly gates of heaven. I can't believe Mary's vocal strength. You know a performer is great when you stop listening to the technical aspect of the music and you take it for and his long, green cigar sprouting from his mouth. We used to kid him. That hair! Those crazy salt and pepper curls. And that long, green cigar that would get in the way as he spoke- in mumbles. We used to say, \Don't Mumble! Speak!\ Now he doesn't speak. He doesn't even mumble anymore. I wish I could hear him mumble now. I miss his mumble, and his crazy-curly hair. We used to tease him. The Big Man. But all that we teased him about is gone now. And all that remains of The Big Man are some mumbled memories, and a half-filled box: of his favorite long, green cigars. -by Demetra M. Pontisakos Positions open: Expand yourself, become a writer for Concordiensis. Call Paul at 382-2673 or leaye a note addressed to Box 645 Become Involved! granted because she makes it look so easy, an_p you begin to listen to what she is saying, what she feels and means tn. stead. I was ·moved to tears by this lady's easy style, energy level, and abUity to com· municate-to work her way into the audiences hearts and souls: I lGoked around m.e and everyone was in a trance, captivated. The highlights for me were \Me and Bobby McGee\ an original song by Peter entitled ''Get Her Off My Mind\ (changed to \Get Him Off My Mind\ when .Mary sang it) ,and' 'ThePort of Amsterdam\ which totally swept me away. Mary, no one has ever sung that better than you did~ven the professional recordings I've heard don't match. This lady is good. She paints such vivid pictures, and throws herself into the .songs so deeply that you geta sense that she has lived all the songs she sings- that . she has visited these feelings and. is now coming back to tell us passionately what they were like-so passionately that we too enter that world and can see the vivid pictures and can actually feel the tears and the joy. Mary and Peter made the Cabaret room the warmest place on campus last Thursday ntght-ex:cept for the occasional chills that went running up my spine, and through my entire body. And the most wonderful thing about it is, this isn't the last we'll be hearing from Mary-it's just the first! Later this term you can see her, and Chris Gaynor, and Jodi Cohen, and Dan Lacoff in the Art's Department's production of WORKING. They should be exciting there, too-Keep your eyes peeled for these guys ! ! ! 464 State St. we deliver d TH.U:RSDAY, JANUARY 22nd Act 1 : Tom Farrell and Felicia Salvacion Act 2: Beth Baumgarten and Debbie Poletto MC :. Deme Pontisakos · Shows at 9 and 11 p.m. nckets on sale at 8 p.m. in Ccwmegie A Romantic Contedy \Sorrows of Stephen,\ a contemporary romantic comedy by Peter Parnell, is making its area debut Jan. 21 through Feb. 8 at Capital Repertory Company in Albany. A charming and sophisticated comedy full of love, irinocence and sentimentality, \Sorrows of Stephen\ was first staged last winter at the Public Theater in· New York City. · \Sorrows of Stephen\ is about a very romantic and vulnerable young man, appropriately named Stephen Hurt. He ·carries Goethe's novel, \The Sorrows of Young Werther,\ around with him like a guidebook and uses \Young Werther's''amorous adventures as models for his own escapades. Obsessed by love, he blithefully pursues every ·woman he meets; from a lady cabdriver to a mysterious lady at the opera. At the onset of each grand Schenectady 374-1888 passion h.e impresses his current flame with his sen- sitivity, vulnerability and honesty. He woos his \Women with candy, flowers, cabbages and oranges, but irievitably they grow bored with his romantic excesses. \I love them,\ he says. \They leave me.\ As the play opens Stephen's girlfriend Uz is leaving him, in spite of his last minute marriage proposal. Momen- tarily rejected, he falls in love with his best friend's fiancee on the rebound. A romantic triangle follows, which is fur- ther complicated by Stephen's hilarious pursuit of other women. \Sorrows of Stephen\ is set mostly in such familiar Manhattan locations as the Plaza Hotel, Central Park, the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Opera·. \Sorrows of Stephen\ is being presented at Page Hall on Western Avenue, off South Lake in Albany. Performances are at 8 p.m. opening night, Thursdays and Sundays, 8:30p.m. Fridays and Saturdays, and 2:30 p.m. Saturday and Sunday af- ternoons. Tickets, which range from $4 to $10 depending on per- formance and seating area, are available at Community Box Office or by calling 462-4534. A $1 discount is offered to senior citizens and studenis and special group discounts are available. Call Days Evenings & Weekends CLASSES BEGIN 1 /25 Educational Center TEST·PREPARATION SPECIAliSTS SINCE 1938 Albany Center 163 Delaware Ave Delmar, N.Y. 12054 (518) 439-8146 For Information About Other Centers ln More Than 80 Major US Cities & Abroad Outside NY State CAll TOLL FREE: 100·223·1182 a Th TheR Frederic thriller, Feb. 13, p.m. T shows w Lounge Wait 1 con gam to con a them wl heroin if sees·far The bit Ann F~ victim c courage woman against who inv only one prying upstairs Ann woman ability effort directio: world's Her pa theatre. it With Top of Doscher has bee: as a dir' part of

OONOORDIBJNSlS, January 22, 1981 Page.7 arts culture The .RPI P·layers Inside Sntythe The RPI Players will present Frederick Knott's psycological thriller, Wait Until Dark, on Feb. 13, 14, 19, 20 and 21 at 8 p.m. Tickets are $2.50. All shOws will be at the 15th Street Lounge on the RPI campus. Wait UntO Dark deals with a con game. Three men are trying to con a blind woman into telling them where a doll stuffed with heroin is hidden. But the woman sees .far more than they realize. The blind woman, played by Ann Fallon, is the intended victim of evil doings. She is a courageous and enterprising woman who defends herself against the shady characters who invade her apartment. The only one she has to aid her is the prying little girl who lives upstairs. Ann Fallon as the blind woman must overcome her ability to see. Through her effort and Graham Zeh's direction, she will become the world's champion· blind woman. Her past experience in the theatre includes You Can't Take it With You adnd Dark at the Top of The Stairs. William C. Doscher, one of the con men, has been with the Players both as a director and an actor. The part of Roat really puts his acting talents to work. Joe· Phillips' (Carlino) recent en- counter with the Players was as Cedric Seward in Dracula; he has done theatrical work in other area theatres. Mike is played by Christopher Rumsey who spends most of his time offstage working wUh the Gorgon, -an RPI arts magazine. Colonie and Loudonville have sent our G lorias, Laura McLauchlin and Amy Levy, to the RPI stage. Laura has acted in Grease, and 110 in the Shade; Amy''s credits include The Sound .of Music and. Uncle Tom's Cabin. The two policemen are played by Thomas J .. Harder and Michael Garyantes. This is Tom's first show as an actor; he worked backstage previously. Mike has sung and danced in shows such as Music Man, Bye, Bye Birdie, · and South Pac.ific. The part of Sam is played by Ken Young, a newcomer to the Lounge. New York City Manhattan By Night A beautiful woman, Dressed by Sak' s- , Fifth A venue, For the evening, Waiting patiently .for her man on the corner ·Of Broadway: . and sixty-third cares to pick her nose. By Oemetra M. Pontisakos S . F. . ctence Iction The Latham, Albany, As the new year progresses, we find much to he thankful for. The hostages are free, giving us a true cause to celebrate. Most of all, Smythe House is back and ready ,to rock in 1981. When Ray Davies was recently asked \Where have all the good times gone?\ his reply was simple: \To Smythe House!\ I mean where. else can you find willing women. like Frisbee and Ingy? Or three senior swingers who do justice to Diana Ross and The Supremes? Face it, we like to party. J If you ever wander up to the second floor, you'll meet three guys who turned down the chance to do a television series this fall. They were to portray the male counterparts to Charlie's Angels; the series was to be called \Joan's Studs.\ Smythe House is not only the home of Lulu's sister, but we also have in residence the real· Duke of Union College. Of course, there are a few sad moments at the house this term. Three of our beloved Smythies have parted company until April We miss those two loonies from downstairs, and \Ephraim where have you been?\ While the three Smythies have departed, three rookies have been added to the roster. First, hulking out at 215 pounds, from ahole in Jersey, we have the bearded lamb. And weighing in at negative 73 and negative 27 are the Pittsfield .poker players. There you have it. The Smythies are psyched. So make sure you come to Smythe on Friday night to ring in the new year. Graham Zeh is directing this production. He has done ex- tensive work as a director, an actor, and a designer. He has won the Agnes E. Futterer Award for Acting, Technical, and Direction. Rosemary Murphy and Cara Vietri are assisting Graham Zeh in Direction. Schenectady, Troy Science Fiction Association will sponsor The First LASTcon Science Fiction Convention at the Ramada Inn, 1228 Western Avenue, Albany, beginning at noon on Friday, Jan. 23, and concluding at noon on Sunday, Jan. 25. The convention will feature well-known science fiction author, Hal Clement. Tickets for the entire con- vention are $15 a:t the door. Tickets at the door for one-day attendance are : Friday, $7; Saturday, $8.; Sunday, $2. F elecia, Eileen, Fred: We Miss You JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT IT WAS SAFE TO GO BACK IN THE WATER ¥0U CAN'T GET TO IT. JERRY GROSS PRESHHS A SR RUN RUN SHAW Nil SIDNEY BECKERMAN ~llJI \BLOOD BEACH\ STARRING DAVID HUFFMAN. MARIANA HILL • JOHN SAXON ·STEFAN GIERASCH. BURT YDUNG AS lT RUYKO IHGTED BY JEfF~[\' BlOOd •lmillO BY SJEIIIN NAI.EV!W(Y•EX(CU!M ffiOCIDR Sl1£\' lflLLIID'i'QW~~~ Slim Iii JEFIID' run~ oo srmN roo:wv · w:c BY r:t ~lE • l.£rROO:too ·llSTRiBUTEO BY THE IRI..;jii~r.4-l uoo . Starts Friday, January 23 at a theatre near you.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, January 22, 1981 features Snuggle Swiss Style By D. BOOTH Recently I have heard several complaints from fellew students about the lack of activity around the campus. Personally, I couldn't understand it; I have always found something to occupy my time. Nevertheless without any attempt at clos~ observation, one can see that there are very few planned activities at Union. As students,. we are relied upon to find our own entertainment. As I have mentioned, I never have any problems; however, for those who do, I am going to write this column. Union Attends Model U.N. It is certainly true that the Skellar and the Pub have seen a drop in business, most likely brought on by the sub-zero temperatures. But that is no reason why one should go to bed early, or do any more work than usual. It is instead a time to branch out, to get to knew other people better. There are no outside distractions,. like loud music, or even other friends, One finally has the chance to talk, not about the weather or classes, but about life and those things which make a person what they are. The first step is to purchase bread. Madame Perreca's bakery of Jay St. features home baked Italian bread for 55 cents for a small loaf. This should be purchased in the morning, and cut into bite-size pieces. The bread should be hard, but not stale. Later in the day or early evening, stir one ,tablespoon cornstarch into lf4. cup kirsch or dry sherry (preferably kirsch, a liquor). Set aside. Then rub the inside of a pan with garlic, just enough to give a very faint trace of it tothe fondue. Add 2 cups of sauterne, and heat till air bubbles rise and cover the surface. Don.ot boil. Remember to stir constantly from this time on. Add handfuls of combined gruyere cheese (lh lb.) and natural Swiss cheese (1 Vz lbs.) shredded. When melted, toss in another handful, always stilTing. When all the cheese is melted, add the kirsch mixture. Quickly transfer to a warm pot. The traditional fondue pot is kept by sterno. If the fondue begins to thicken, one can add a little warm sauterne. By BOB BYRNES& PAMELA VIGLIEMO The last weekend before Thanksgiving, in the middle of the tenth week of classes, was busy for Union students this year, with papers due and plenty of work to be done. However, for 14 students, the weekend was even busier; on top of the usual workload they were going to Philadelphia to represent the College at the University of Pennsylvania Model United Nations Con- . ference. The students are all members of the International Relations· Club, CIRC, which works to educate its members and the campus community on various aspects of international politics. Participation in Model United Nations conferences, such as the one 11t Penn., and other events, such as interesting and informative lectures by area speakers and trips to the United Nations complex in New York City serve to achieve this goal. At the University of Penn- sylvania, Union represented two countries, Kuwait and Democrati~ Kampuchea (Cambodia). Many of the students found Kuwait to be of special interest because of its small population and enormous power, its strategic Persian Gulf position and its Mid-East oil riches. Kampuchea also provided a challenge to the IRC students, for the delegation from Vietnam attempted to have it expelled from the conference by claiming its government was not the legitimate government of the people. Only an impassioned last-minute speech by freshman Sean Gilligan, attending his first model U.N. conference, saved the Union delegation from being expelled. The IRC members all ap- preciated the experience of looking at the world from a perspective so unlike that of the United States. \It was a won- derful learning experience,\ said freshman Lydia Montagna. \This was my first Model U.N. and I learned so much about how Third-World countries look at the world situation. For them, there are many other consideration that we don't have to worry about in the United States. Even if you disagree with their viewpoint, it's challenging to put yourself in their place.\ While eight of the 14 IRC members were attending their first Model U.N., the others had their own opinions of the Penn. conference. \It probably could have been r.un better,\ said former IRC President Keith Cockerham. \Still Union was in good company. There were a lot of good schools present, but I really feel that Union stood out.\ Professor Stephen Pelletiere, of Union's Political Science department, agreed with that assessment. ''The Union students all stayed in character · with the countries they represented. I was surprised how some delegations - from good schools - disregarded the policies of the countries they represented. I never found reason to correct a Union student's position, and they all were very impressive in. their committees. They have a reason to be proud of their performance at Penn.\ Prof. Pelletiere accompanied the Union students to the Penn. conference. IRC · President, Larry Barocas was pleased with the Union performance also. \Especially the freshmen,\ he said. \With active involved freshmen like we had at Penn., this club c~n have a long and healthy future, every time we go to one of these conferences we get personal invitations from prestigious schools in- viting us to participate in their model U.N.s. I think they recognize the caliber of Union's IRC.\ The Union IRC will be at- tending the Princeton con- ference in early February and the Harvard conference later that same month. In addition, selected students may compete in the \Nationals a very prestigious U.N. simulation actually held in the United Nations New York City headquarters. Preparation .for the con- ferences is extensive. Students learn all about the political, social, economic, and cultural aspects o.f the countries they represent. Last October, 12 students visited the Kuwait and U.S.S.R. missions in New York City, which provided enlightening information as well . as some philosophical conflicts. Several Union students had an opportunity to debate Israel, zionism, and anti- semitism with an Arab official from Kuwait, and the Soviet briefing is never short of con- troversy. (One IRC member, however, lamented the fact that they were not given a briefing by the same Soviet official who had spoken to them last May. The two had had quite a discussion on the Olympic boycott, Afghanistan, and other East-West disagreements! ) At the conferences, the delegation is split into separate committees. At Penn., for in- stance, the Legal Committee debated the expulsion of Israel, while the Economic and Social Committee discussed Human Rights and Trans-national Corporations. In short, every subject oE- international interest was considered under one of the many committees. On the final day, a legal committee resolution authored by Union sophmores, Scott Spiegal and Madie Kibrick was debated before the General Assembly and was passed. \You learn all the nuances of Working together and com- promising,\ Scott said. ''You learn how to give and take, to get the most of what you want passed. Besides tnat, you meet a lot of great people at these conferences.\ · There is a social aspect to the model U.N.s, although 9 a.m. to 11 p.m. workdays make for some lost sleep. Still, with so many college students all sharing similar interests in one hotel, there is a festive, good- natured atmosphere and plenty to talk about. The Union College Inter- national Relations Club always welcomes new members. They meet in Carnegie Hall on Monday evenings. If you are interested in attending future model United Nations con- ferences, going to New York on one of their frequent visits to the United Nations and foreign missions, or being involved with one of their guest lectures, call Larry Barocas at 370-6656. For anyone interested in in- ternational affairs, the IRC . is an opportunity not to be missed. The first step for an evening of this sort is a preparation of atmosphere. Although it is not the atmosphere which is im- portant, everyene enjoys having someone special lavish some attention on them. In this age of \me-ism\ it's nice to think of somebody else. So make the atmosphere congenial. Dim the lights, play a little soft music, and for the crowning touch of the evening, cheese fondue for two. For those who are unaware of this fact, cheese fondue is one of the most intimate meals, possibly the most intimate meal, possible. It does not ta~e much imagination to see tlie possibilities. The long slender fork topped with bread being slowly turned in melted cheese as one gazes through the can- dlelight at her, ahem, eyes. Then the slow, somnolent lifting of the fork towards her mouth, waiting in anticipation. It seems a meal designed for the intimicy of a small Swiss lodge snowed in in the Alps. The fondue is not hard to make, nor is it the expensive ·meal that it is in a restaurant. To go with this meal I recommend a white wine medium sweet to sweet. The Swiss wine Fendant du Valois ($10.95) canbefoundat only one place in Schenectady, Boqlevard State Store on Nott St., just past Ellis Hospital. However, any of the more numerous and less expensive German wines will add a bit of zest to the evening. Gentlemen should wear something soft, and cuddly, on the lines of cash- mere, and ladies should wear voluminous blouses. Bring flowers, and enjoy a Swiss snuggle! (Next week: Watch this column for Romantic Interlude TI, including a special section on valentines gifts and flowers.) Narcissism Comes of Age By DAN BOOTH Not one to make broad generalizations, I would not wish to make some false generalization about the past decade; however, I am daring enough to make just such a generalization about the last two years, my \Union years\ as it were. If I had to label these years, I would call them the \Age of Me-ism.\ , Whether this is a continuation of the backlash to the sixties, when there was a denial of the self in the interests of mankind as a whole, or whether it is a re- establishment of the hedonistic impulses of man, or something else, is unimportant. The im- portant fact is that there exists a situation in which people deny other people in their own in- terests. This denial has its advantages and its disad- vantages, which in less euphemistic places have been called back-stabbing. When I say that this form of narcissism has its place, I am praising the fact that in an age Where the \me\ is important, people are pressed into assessing themselves and their position in society. If they are displeased they can change their position. And if they like what they see, well and good, There is nothing wrong with some good honest self-praise. But unfortunately this has begun to carry itself too far. People may like What they see in the mirror, but they are rarely satisfied. Everyone is seeking to get ahead. Per- sonally there are things whi~h I also want out of life. But for me, and I hope for others, it is not just to have an object but the satisfaction of working for such an object and sharing it with my friends. Note that I said \sharing\ instead of \showing\. Thus, for me, it desperately matters how I achieve a goal, as well as the actual attainment of the said goal. For me, this is a definite advantage of self-love. It gives me a chance to un- selfconsciously be for me. But this has a darker side. It is patently obvious that anyone too caught up in the \me\ is going to miss the \other\, perhaps even unknowingly walk over them. This denial, the denial of man as a part of a while rather than a castle unto himself, is dangerous, for it encourages the back-stabbing which I mentioned earlier. With utter unconcern for how one Continued from page 5 gets something, they grasp out for it. As I st.ated earlier, it ought to matter how one gets something. This does not mean that I am advocating a return to the dated sixties ethic of \stand together or all is lost.\ I too could care less about some of the so-called issues. But I am passionately interested letting someone care about them. In other words; to attain my objectives, I am not willing to endanger other people's goals. I suppose that I am in some sense advocating a \to each his own\ stance, but it is more complex than this. I am taking the stand that because we care about ourselves does not mean that we cannot, or should not, care about others. Instead of an age of \me-ism\ it would be nice to see an age of compassion and interest for all corners of one's life, including where it touches others. Frosh Elections: Vivian Stern The people who will fill the position of Freshman Class Representative will become full voting members of the Student Forum. ShoUld I win this election, I will not take this responsibility lightly. I feel that it is important for the students to exercise their rights and voice their opinions on the many issues that concern them. As Freshman Representative, I would do my best :to try and make these opinions heard. Hopefully, with · the help of everyone, we can make Union College the best it possibly can be. Nc ------ Hi Dep peri on Nor peri occt extr fron hum Ma~ beer Dep turn built few tem blas· can to i tem1 mail muc ex:pe can I he note1 werE roon in It 1 saJ De jus ~ ant c~

'be and The not or h,a the just of air the bs.) is pot. is I ine ive of on it to I a it or it of CONOORDIENSIS, January 22, 1981 Page 9 features ' ' ' ' ' ' '- ', ' \ ''' ' ' ' ' ' . ' ' ' .·· ' ' ' _: ' ·. .- ' ' _· .• North Residents: Guinea Pigs? By CHRIS ERDEY mittens,. and ski socks. Those residing in the oppressively hot rooms donned shorts and T- shirts in a futile attempt to avoid heat stroke. The ex- periment revealed that the two extremes in temperatures caused a majority of people to become slightly irritable. They began to feel driven to complain to maintenance about the situation, and were told that the boiler was malfunctioning. The Director of Housing is Have you heard about the Bio Department's latest ex- periment? It is being performed on unknowing residents of North College. The ex- perimentors are monitoring the occupants' ability to withstand extreme temperatures ranging from ten below zero to one hundred degrees above. The Maintenance Department has been cooperating with the Bio Department by completely turning off the heat in the building, with the exception of a few rooms in Bronner. Main- tenance has successfully blasted all the heat it possibly can into these particular rooms to insure that the correct temperature is reached. One maintenance man expressed much pride in his role in the experiment \I am happy that I can help humanity in this way,\ he remarked. The scientists noted that the residents who were living in the bitter cold rooms had to resort to sleeping in long johns, down jackets, -especia,lly pleased with the experiment. He is planning on holding Winter Carnival inside North College, and he assuredly says, \Don't worry about the snow. We're goingto bring snow making machines into the dorm if enough snow doesn't fall naturally! The snow sculpture event must go on!'' He even is ready to make one of North's staircases into a ski slope and claims, \If the Olympics ever return to New York, we're prepared.\ As far as the desert like climate in certain rooms in Bronner, is concerned, he feels that it would make a perfect home for camels. A number of them have alread¥ applied for housing there. They probably will not have any trouble ob- taining housing as many residents are ready to move out. As a result of this wonderful experiment, Bronner will now be called \Boiling Bronner\ and North dorm of course already lives up to its name. Sheila Walsh and Beth Meyer try ro stay warm under the covers Student'S Take Skate Break By ANNE RUTH It's one o'clock on a weekday afternoon, do you know where all the Union College students are? Well, if not in class or lab, Anniversary Forum . Thursday, Jan. 22 Anniver- sary Forum 1973 Supreme Court Decision: A promise of equal justice for all women. Speakers to discuss politics and women's rights-the effects of the 1980 election, the women's health issue and more.· Professor Catherine Clinto will moderate. 7:00 Banquet Room Carnegie Hall. there's a good chance many ate cutting their edges on the ice at this winter's biggest social and recreational center-Achilles Rink. As the temperatures outside plunge well below freezing, students are finding the con- siderably warmer climate inside Achilles Rink just right for the practice of winter sport. More students than ev~r are rediscovering the joys of ice skating and the fun and con- venience of Achilles' free week- day sessions for Union students from 1-3 pm. Inside the rink students of varying .talents glide · over the ice, some swirling and leaping, some wobbling and falling, all enjoying the exhilaration of winterrecreation. For some the rink provides an escape from academic realities into a fana tasy world. Would be hockey stars zip across the ice, darting from corner to corner in pursuit of imaginary opponents. Figure skaters congregate at the center of the ice weaving in- tricate circles and loops, oblivious to those around them. Many students claim that relaxation, exercise and a break from routine are their main reasons for attending the afternoon skating sessions but there are other motivations as well. \I'm practicing. for my Concordiensis wishes Pres,ident Reagan a Successful Four Years ••• pre-silver tests in ice dancing,'' explained one student, \and this ice time is great.\ \I'd have to pay a fortune if I went to a rink at home.'' Another student asserted, \Skating is a great Winter hobby and you don't have to face the cold wind.\ Some students come just to w~tch the other skaters, and a few have intentions that are admittedly more social than recreationaL As-ooe-male- shyly confessed, \I came here to meet some girls.\ But no matter what the reason, this is the skating season so grab some skates and come on up to Achilles! College Press Serv1ce

Page 10 CONCOR;DIENSIS, January fefe, 1981 ----A round Cam pus---· --- Theory of War? The Albany Diocesan Com- mission on Peace and Justice is available .free of charge to come and speak to interested groups, fraternities, sororities, and dorms on a variety of issues and concerns for the '80's. Of par;- ticular interest these days are such issues as: . 1. The draft-Individual rights :md obligations. Counseling on the draft include.s a moral perspective as well as an historical one. 2. The just war theory and its applicability for the '80's. 3. Nuclear proliferation and the arms race. 4. The tole and responsibility of Americans in · a world of diminishing resources. These are but a few topics which members ·of this Com- mission can address and tailor to meet the needs -of the group. They have at their disposal, printed information, slides, movies and filmstrips to heighten consciousness and promote discussion. Their talks also include pragmatic ways of involving students to make their impact felt. If any group is interested, they can leave their name and telephone number with Mrs. Marra (370-6118) or c.all the Diocesan Peace and Justice Commission and ask for either Rev. Brian O'Shaughnessy or Sister Barbara DiTomasso, 346- 4411. Though the Commission is financed by\ the Catholic Diocese of Albany, its approach is ecumenical and cuts across religious affiliations. Backing Up Your Back An eKercise program will be offered at Union College for people with back pain, due to muscle spasm. If you suffer back pam, the chances are that your condition is caused not by organic disease, but by muscles that are weak and tense, or both. Research has shown that 80 percent of back pain is caused by muscular deficiency. This program is one of relaxation exercises, limbering eKercises for the back, and strengthening exercises for the abdomen. It must be continued daily, and should not be started unless it is done regularly. The course will be taught by Janet Weick, RN, Fitness Instructor. She has studied with Bonnie Prudden, Dr. Kenneth Chivers, and Dr. Hans Kraus, and attended special back programs at the Institute for Man and Science. An exercise sheet is available for your doctor and a per· mission slip is needed by him. - Class size will be limited to fifteen members. Sessions will be held in the wrestling room, twice a week, 11:45-12:15, and will start February 3, 1980. If • interested, please contact Janet Weick, 346-4785. Career Day Tri-city area Union alumni will hold their fourth annual Career Observation Program Feb. 24, 25, and 26. Tfiis program is aimed at providing Union students with firsthand career information by allowing them to spend time with alumni who work in various fields. Careers and industries known to be of interest to students include, but are not restricted tb, accounting, counseling- social work, engineering, en~ vironmental planning, film, government, health planning, and hospital administration. Also, students have expressed' an interest in industrial ad- ministration and management, international business, jour- Ralism-print media, law, medicine, museums, personnel- labor relations, politics, public relations,. publishing, radio-TV, sa 1 le,s 7 marketing,. and urban p annmg .. Schenectady Alumni Club President Joseph E. Milano and AlbanY.,Troy Alumni Club President William L. Fox noted that it is particularly helpful for alumni who work in a business or industry that does not usually recruit college students to participate in the Career Observation Program. Union alumni willing to have one or more students join them at their place of business to observe an average working day should contact the College Career Center by Wednesday, Jan. 28 .. For more information, call 37~176. or 370-6179. Carnegie Games Are you bored?· Tired of just the Skellar and the Pub? Well, for y-our enjoyment, the game room now has \Space Invaders\ and within a month, we will be getting the pinball machine, \Flash.\ Also, Strauss Lounge, in an effort to turn Carnegie Hall into a true student center, now has board games such as Qubic, backgammon, Scrabble, Stratego and many others. Come to the game room and Strauss Lounge and take a study break. Amtrak Has New Run Amtrak will begin a sixth daily roundtrip service between Schenectady and New York City effective Feb. 1, it was an- nounced here today. The new train schedule calls for Amtrak train No. 72 to depart Schenectady at 7:50a.m. daily and arrive in New York Grand Central Station at 10: 55 a.m. Returning, train No. 75 will depart New York City at 4:35 p.m. and arrive in Schenectady at 7:35p.m. daily. The new service in Schenectady is expected to attract some 10,500 additional passengers per year, and generate $150,000 in increased revenue. Fellowship Awards The State Farm Companies Foundation has announced fifteen $1,500 Exceptional Student Fellowships, to be awarded in 1981. Deadline for completing applications, transcripts, and letters of recommendation is February 28. The purpose of the Fellowship Awards is \to recognize ex- cellent scholars in business- related fields of study who are leaders on their campus.\ At Union, this means majors in computer science, economics, mathematics, \pre-law and ''other btfSfness-related studit'S,'' according to the announcement. Applicants lli~JSt be juniors or seniors with demonstrated leadership in extracurricular activities and a strong academic record (a cwn of at least 3.0). More information and 1981 application forms are available in the office of Dean Nelson, Science\Engineering S-100. Spanish Study Each year for five weeks -of the summer, a program is of- fered to students in the US and Canada to travel and study in Spain. Last summer,· 93 students from 25 states, Canada and Puerto Rico departed from Kennedy Airport in New York and flew to Ma<lrid. The group was then bussed to the campus of the Ciudad Universitaria of Madrid where they' lived and attended Classes. The living quarters consisted of one room per student. Each class met five days a week and courses ranged from Elementary Spanish to Literature and Culture. Students toured La Mancha for two days, visiting all the in- teresting places related to Cervantes and Don Quixote. Sixty students made a four day tour to Santiago de Compostela and Leon. Once or twice a week a group was scheduled to visit such historical places as Valle de los Caidos, El Escorial, Segovia, Avila, Toledo, Museo del Prado, Palacio Real, etc. Students found that they had also inore than enough time to do, see and learn whatever they chose. · As part of the program, a trip was taken to Southern Spain, visiting famous cities such as Cordoba, Sevilla, Granada, Malaga, and two days were spent in the beautiful Torremolinos Beach. Plans are already in progress for the 17th Summer School Program in Spain 1981. Students may earn 9 quarter college credits. All persons interested should write to Dr. _Doreste, Augustana College, Rock Island, Ill. 61202 as soon ·as possible. Space is very limited! Scaife Is· Published Charles Scaife, associate professor of chemistry here, has coauthored a paper with Ralph Wilkins that was published in the November issue of Inorganic Chemistry. The paper, entitled ''Kinetics of the Reduction of Hexacyanoferrate (III) Ion by Dithionite Ion,'' discusses research conducted by Scaife primarily while on sabbatical leave at New Mexic-O State University in Las Cruces. In this research, the effect of four different variables (con- centration, temperature,. ionic strength, and pH) was studied for the described reduction. Dithionite ion can act as a reducing agent by at least three different mechanisms, but until his report, Scaife says, three mechanisms had never been observed for the same pair of reactants. ''Results of this work will help to clarify some of the mechanistic differences of dithionite action toward simple inorganic oxidants versus more complex biochemical oxidants,\ Scaife says. Professors Granted$$ Union faculty members Peter L. Tobiessen~ associate professor biological sciences, and Phillip D. Snow, associate professor civil engineering, have been awarded a $28,700 grant from the U.S Envi!1on- mental Protection Agency (EPA). The grant will fund a two-year study of the growth of the nuisance aquatic week, Potamogeto11 crispus. Both Tobiessen and Snow participated in a previous EPA study monitoring the biological. effects of restorative dredging · · in Collins Lake, Scotia. At that time, it was discovered that Potamogeton crispus, which previously had covered as J;I1Uch as 6() percent of the lake· sur- face, was effectively controlled by dredging. Since this curly-leaved pondweed is now found throughout the U.S., Tobiessen says, EPA is interested in learning which of the many environmental factors in- fluenced by dredging are im- portant in reducing Potamogeton crlspus growth. As with the previous study, undergraduate students at Union will assist with much of the research. The work will be done both at Collins Lake and in the laboratory. Mid-East Travels Stephen Berk, associate professor of history, and Joseph Board, Robert Porter Patterson Professor of . Government, travelled to Cairo and London for a total of 10 days last November and December. Sponsored by a grant from the Mobil Foundation, given for the purpose of advancing Middle East studies at Union; they visited the American Univer- sity, Cairo University, the Ahram Center for International ~nd Strategic Studies, and the School Oriental and African Studies at the University of London. '].'hey conducted, both in Cairo and London, a number of interviews with leading scholars, writers, and diplomats on the subjects of contemporary Middle Eastern politics and Islamic political thought. They were given assistance in arranging their interview schedule by Professor P. J. Vatikiotis of the University of London, who was a visiting ·professor at Union two years ago. Hearts That Don't Break Mechanical Engineering Professor J. Richard Shanebrook, whose research has led to the development of an improved artificial heart valve, will speak here this afternoon: His talk, entitled \Engineering a Better Heart,\ will begin at 4:30p.m. in the Social Sciences auditorium (room 016), and the public is welcome to attend. Shanebrook's presentation is the second lecture in the 198()..81 Union Faculty Colloquium series. The Faculty Colloquium provides an opportunity for members of the College com- munity to disc_uss their work with others.-Speakers are asked to present a scholarly discussion of their research, which will at the same tilll.e be understandable to the in- terested novice. Shanebrook 1 s work at Union, which has. been supported in part by the United· Way of Schenectady, has led to the development of the Union College hemofoil mitral valve and the . Union College vortex blood p~p, both pioneering efforts in the field-of biomedical engineering. _ A member of the Union faculty since 1965, Shanebrook received his doctorate in mechanical engineering . from Syracuse University. He is the author or co-author of more than 30 professional papers in various fields of engineering, including 13 in bioeng,ine-eping. Shanebrook, a former chairman of the College Mech~nical Engineering 'Department, has heen the principal investigator on several other research projects .sponsored by the National Science Foundation, the ~ngineering Foundation, and the United Way of Schenectady. Jonos Published ''Mutualism in the Relati<ms between the United States and the Early Weimar Republic\ by Manfred Jonas, professor of history and chairman of the department, has been published in Germany and America; essays on Problems of lilter- n.ational Relations and Immigration (Hans L. Trefousse, ed.). The volume, containing contributions from 13 American and six Gennan historians, was the 21st of the Brooklyn College Studies on Society in Change, and it corrunemorates both the l!)Oth birthday of the German- American statesman Carl Schurz and the 50th anniversary of the founding of Brooklyn College. Stop the Draft By JU~IAN LUMEN We live a fairly sheltered life here at Union. For many of us our biggest decision is picking our major. After that is done, we pretty much follow the daily routine of college life. Recently, registration for the draft was instated. And surprisingly little attention did it get from Union students. Many of us recently registered for the draft without a second thought. Could it be the President's assurance_, that there won't be a draft, brought on such indifference? It shouldn't! ' Let us. 1ook at what the registration, the draft and war mean to us. The registration gives the government ready access to your name and ad- dress. In the event of a war, YOUR. name is readily available. Should you be drafted, you only have 10 days to state your status on eligibility forthedraft. The Pentagon says it wants soldiers from the draft to be ready for duty within 60 days. Should a world war be fought, the risk of mass destruction, by atomic warfare, is great. The time to act is now. Right now we live in a world in whicn there are enough explosive devices to kill every person on earth with more than 2,000 poundsof'I'.N.T. Think about it: with this kind of power do we really need an army? More bombs or soldiers won't make any difference in this, the atomic age. If you feel the same way I do, about peace in the world, STOP THE DRAFT. Write your Congressman, voice your opinion. If enough people d9 it things will CHANGE. - s Whe: 19,000..: Madis watch Clyde thing chant • echo b all o< sevent popul~ changE and tl nothin1 basket reache were a Garde edifice Now and tht not qui decade noneth writter sixth t (27-16) better that jt There reason The changE officec compo. the sta badly. MeAde theKn need basket unhear

be in of on in in ge on by of be ' y, e 0 OONOORDIENEJIS, January ~~ .. 1981 Page 11 sports O.T.: :Resurrection _in the Garden By DAVE RUDEN When times were good. some 19,000-plus. fans would fill up Madison Square Garden to watch people named Willis, Clyde and Dollar Bill do their thing with a basketball. The chant of Dee-Fense was not an echo but a practiced art. This all occurred in the early seventies. Basketball wa~ a popular sport. Then times changed. The old names retired and their replacements knew nothing of the team concept of basketball. As the .seventies reached their end, the Knicks were a struggling team and the Garden was a half-empty edifice. Now the scene is the 1980's and the Knicks are a new team; not quite the team they were a decade ago, but a better team nonetheless. As this is being written, the Knicks have the sixth best record in the N.B.A (27-16). This year's edition is far better than last year's team that just missed the playQffs. There are some underlying reasons for this steady change. The main cause was a changed philosophy in the front office on how the team should be composed. The Knicks had tried the star player route and failed badly. With players like Bob McAdoo and Spencer Haywood, the Knicks found themselves in need of more than one basketball. Defense was almost unheard of. Then the front office realized that they should build the team up through the draft. Big narn.e players were traded for draft choices and, though the transition was often frustrating, ;the benefits are jU$t now starting to be felt. The Knicks had three first nound draft choices tn 1979 and selected Bill Cartwright, Larry Demie and Sly . Williams. Cartwright was an instant star. Demic has had trouble con- verting to the power forward position (he was a center in college). Williams had a horrendous rookie year, but has come into his own this year, providing the team with solid rebounding and crisp passing to go along with more than adequate scoring. Of the Knicks eleven-man roster, only Campy Russell, Mike Glenn and Marvin Web- ster are not draft choices (Russell carne via the trade market and Glenn and Webster were free agents). However, it took the maturing of the star- ting backcourt to make the Knicks a complete team. Ray Williams and Michael Ray Richardson were highly touted draft picks who frustrated the fans with their highly erratic play. With time, though, the two matured into a solid backcourt, with Richardson being the playmaker and Williams the scorer. All these factors along with the revitalized Webster and the offensive boost from Russell have made the team a highly competent one, The \new\ New York Knicks, as they are b~ing advertised, are indeed an improved team. With a few more ingredients (a true power forward who can score and a better team defense) the Knicks· could be .a championship caliber team. But for now, the fans will settle for a competitive team. And the Garden is happy again. An undermanned Union track team absorbed a :pair of dual meet defeates in the season opener against Hamilton Sunday. Williams finished first in the meet with 74% points, with 'homestanding Hamilton second (64 points), and Union a distant third with 32. Football star Henry Wright scored the only win of the day by a Union athlete with a first in the triple· jump. Wright also placed second in the long jump with a mark of 19'6\. Three other Union athletes placed second in their respective events. Sophomore Denny Contois finished second in both the 1,500 meters, with a time o£4: 10, and the 800 meters, with a 2:02.1 clocking. Fresh- man Lynwood Wade placed second in the shot put with a toss of 46'8\ and John Hartzell placed second iiJ. the tripl.e jump with a 38'6\ .effort. Hartzell, a junior transfer, SPORTS HAPPENIN·GS Jan. 20-29 Varsity Basketball Jan. 24 St. Lawrence . Jan. 28 RPI J. V. Basketball Varsity Hockey J.V. Hockey Varsity Wrestling Jan. 23at Williams Jan. 28 R.P.L Ja·n. 22 Colby Jan. 24 Lowell Jan. 28at Middlebury Jan. 22 Berkshire School Jan. 28 Canterbury School Jan. 24 Kings Point Jan. 28 at R.P.I. Varsity Swimmi.ng Women's Basketball Jan. 24 Kings Point Jan. 28 Albany Jan. 24 Williams Jan. 26 Albany Jan. 28 at Russell Sage • tn Opener turned in a fine performance for the Dutchmen. In addition to the triple jump, he also placed third in the long jump, fourth in the 60 meter dash, and ran a leg of the mile relay. After the meet, Hartzell commented that he was basically satisfied with his performances but felt he could have mn faster in the mile relay if he had been fresh. He said, \I found the 400 meters is certainly stressful after three or four events.\ Several other Union com- petitors turned in strong per- formances. Ed Arnheiter finished third in the 3,000 meters, with a 8:45 clocking (the equivalent of a 9:19 two- mile), while teammate Dave Dellehunt finished third in the 500 meters in 1:10.0. Bob Pavacic, despite being stricken with the flu, finished third in the shot. Team Co-Captain Jim Zalucki finished third in the pole vault with a jump of 11 '6\ with sophomore Roger Adler clearing the same height for fourth. Captain Jack ·connor .finished fifth in both the l,!iOO meters (4:15) and the 1,000 meters (2: 42) and ran a leg of the two-mile relay. John Stimmel finished fifth in the 400 meters with a time of 56.7. Counterbalancing these fairly quick early-season per- formances was an obvious lack of manpower. Union brought only 17 individuals to compete in the 16-event meet. As a result, team members such as John Hartzell, Dave Dellehunt and Denny Contois were-fereed to compete in three or four events and, as would be ex- pected, turned in slower per- formances in their later events. The Dutchmen, 0-2 on the year, host a quadrangular meet Friday night against Colgate, Siena and Plattsburgh State. Meet time at the FieldhotlSe is 7:30. classifieos Designers are to jeans as Domino's is to pizza. It figures. With fresh ingredients we can design a pizza to iit your taste and budget. The Domino!s Pizza label means a hot. nutritious meal delivered free of charge, within 30 minutes. Now thafs style! Our drivers carry less than $10.00. L 1m1ted delivery area 'Copyrl(lhl 1980 BULLETIN BOARD Attention Women: The Second Organizational Me~ting will he held for those interested in a Women's Gymnastics Club (Team?)! Monday, January 26, 1981, Room 213, Psych. Bldg., 7:30p.m. Coaching and possible competition will be discussed. In addition, anyone with ex- perience as an instructor in a children's developmental program is especially en- couraged to attend. For further information, call Rudy Nydegger, 6257, or Karen Wytrwal, 6168. Bloodmobile to be held, Thursday and Friday, Jan. 29 & 30 in Strauss Lounge. 11-5. Make appointments with Mrs. Marra in Student Activities Office. The Photo Society will be meeting on Tuesday, Jan. 27 at 7:30 p.m. in the third floor conference room of Carnegie Hall (across from WRUC). The topic of our discussion Will be An Overview of Photography. In addition, rules for our Parents' Weekend photo contest . will be discussed. All are · welcome. Applications for positions on the newly formed SAC sub- cotlncils on Housing and Career Counseling must be returned to Student Activities by Friday, January 23, 1981. Tutor--high scho.ol girl in Regents Chemistry. Will provide transportation-price is negotiable--minimum of 2-3 hours per week. Contact-Mrs. Decesare, 1026 Dean Street (off upper Union) 372-6281. There will be a very im- portant Garnet meeting today at 7:30 in the Garnet office. All staff please attend. Campus Ministry Mass-- Reverend Robert Lefevre, pastor at St. John's the Baptist of Franklin St., former campus minister of Hudson Valley. The Pre-Health Society is having its first general meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. This will be an im- portant business and social meeting as the agenda includes the installment of the new executive board, plans for the winter and spring terms, in,. formation about upcoming class advisory meetings, etc. There will of course be food and drink. Students are needed to serve on the executive board. Those people with a strong interest in serving should try to get in contact with Steve Auerbach (box 203, phone 377-2953) sometime before the meeting, or come a little early to the meeting. PERSONALS Tom Farrell .got high for the first time, and I just wanted to tell the whole campus. NA NA NA NA NA!!! Chris--I'm madly and passionately in love with you; will you have my baby? All I am is just a housewife. Oh, well ... Dear Trouble, !loved the romp. I'll see you in the spring near the babbling brook under the stars. P.S. I'll bring the wine. Love, Rim TOM: We were going to serve blueberry pie filling topped with cool whip for dessert, but we heard that that just isn't done. \Kate and Delores\ (we knl()W better) ''EUNICE! !\-Hang in there- ·the week is almost over! -Love, Gale. Hey Jen·-Where's the ratio????? Dear Smythe--l'm free anytime you want to invite rne to dinner. Love Kim Dear Dumpy-We miss you. Love G and P & Gravel Jeannettes Gravy Girls-Get psyched, you wonderful, beautiful, talented girls. Rim-would you happen t.o have the key to the Cabaret room? Lead Congratulations Wendell and Sue. Be prepared Wendell, afterus Sue will expect nothing but .the best! Best wishes.-The Penthouse c.w., Next time you're out, order dark meat.

Page 12 OONCORDIENSI13, January 2/t, 1981 sports Puck.sters Split Pair By SCOTT FITZGERALD The Union College Dutchmen hockey team split ·a pair of hockey games last week, defeating the Hamilton Con- tinentals but suffering a loss at the hands of the Babson Beavers. On Saturday, Union's surge came too late as they bowed to the Babson Beavers 5-3 before a crowd of 2,567 at Achilles Rink. The Dutchmen played a sporadic and lackadaisical first period allowing Babson to put three goals past goaltender Bart Brooks. Union again attempted a comeback in the final period, outshooting Babson 16\6 dominating both the offensive and defensive aspects of the game. Both Tod Fobare and Dave Ferguson picked up early period goals and Union ap- peared to be on the comeback. The Dutchmen were .spoiled on various scoring opportunities by the Babson netminder who played an exceptional game. The Dutchmen's chances were nullified when forward Mark Bon received a double minor penalty for roughing in the closing minutes, allawing the Beavers to hold on to the 5-3 win. On Tuesday night, the Dut- chmen travelled to Hamilton and defeated the Continentals 6- 5 with the aid of two goal per- formances by Tod Fobare and Bill Mason. slapshot past the Hamilton goaltender, on a .pass from winger Don (Bumbles) Beall. Bill Mason received a pass from Brad Nicholson minutes later and hit thetwine giving Union a 4-2 edge. Hamilton picked up another goal lat~r in the period only to have Mason come back for his second goal of the game seconds later, to close the period wi:th the Dutchmen L. leading 5-3. :g Donny BeaU scored what lii proved t() be the winning goal -' early in. the final period. ~ Hamilton then attempted a tl- • comeback, scoring two late >- . goals, but the Dutchmen held on .a for the 6-5 victory. -E This week, Union has. a two -§_ ,, . ~ '''1\; ,, game home stand, playing Colby Thursday night and Lowell on Saturday night. Union controls the puck A View From the Stands: '· q- ,. Babson initiated early control of the game scoring two goals in the opening minutes of the period. Union put themselves on the scoreboard at the halfway mark of the period as defen~ seman Rob Antonnuci fired a hard slapshot over the Babson goaltender. Babson returned minutes later, however, with a late period goal to end the first period with a 3-1 lead: Union came out flying in the opening moments of the second period, but their enthusiasm was derailed when ·Babson scored two early period goals making the score 5-l. Mike Merlo replaced .goaltender Brooks at this point in the Union nets. Merlo proceeded to display superb goaltending for the remainder of the game. Union opened up the scoring as sharpshooter Tod Fobare fired a low shot past the hand· cuffed Continental netminder. Speedster Danny O'Neill made it 2.0 for Union, beating the Hamilton goalie on a long pass from defenseman Jim Burns. The Continentals came back with two consecutive goals to end the first period in a 2·2 deadlock. Instant Replay Shouldn't Ref Union took the reins again early in the second period as Tod Fobare placed a booming Skiers Impressive By INGEMAR The Union College ski team was ,off to a powerful start last weekend at the season's first alpine and nordic ski com· petition hosted by Army at West Point. Competing against ten other Division II ski teams from schools such as Cornell, Colgate, R.P.I., and Syracuse, the Dutchmen captured a second-place finish in the combined alpine eve':lts. strength, senior Colleen Morris and freshman Donna Morris bettered more than half the field to finish 24th and 26th, respectively. Both are former U.S. Eastern compet[tion champions. In the alpine and nordic events combined, the Union ski team finished fifth. The overall success of the Dutchmen is limited by the small number of people competing in the nordic event. If Union is to qualify for the U.S. Eastern Cham- pionships, as it did last season, the nordic squad will need the support of more cross-country racers from Union's student body. Anyone wishing to par- ticipate on the ski team should contact Fred Thimm at Psi U. By DOUG srr.. VERSTEIN . In three days we will all witness the Super Bowl. Not only will Jaworski and Plunkett be under the spotlight, but many of us will also scrutinize the actions of the men in the pinstripe suits. · I refer to the referees, the men who could easily determine the outcome of the famed contest. Consiaering the pressure of the event and the humanistic qualities of the refs, we perceptive fans will probably witness a poor call, especially since NBC is carrying the game and their superior camera work will undoubtedly exploit a judicial error. So why shouldn't we allow electronic judging devices or instant replay on the stadium screen in order to avoid or rectify any mistake made by the referees? lwill tell you why. I do not blindly advocate any rule that exists simply because it has always been the rule, but here I must. Sports has progressed favorably without the aid of visual aids for years, and I see no reason to discon- tinue that. No one is about to claim that umpires and judges are infallible, but neither are machines or computers, so why should we rely on them? They may be more impartial, but in order to referee any sports event on a high level one is trusted with impartiality, and as sports fans we should never question that. One may argue that payoffs have existed, and will continue to deter fair judgement on the part of the referees. But those who know the stories of many sports figures will realize that enhancing the complete honesty of the referees would only be a part .of the solution to the problem of \poor calls.\ The greatest factor mitigating against the instant replay machine or electronic· devices is the fear of disruption and chaos in the middle of any contest. A replay, probably duplicated on a screen inside the stadium or even on television monitors, is simply just a reprodnction, less reliable than the actual play. Furthermore, could you imagine stopping a hockey game for ten minutes or so to allow the referee to get a \second opinion?\ This is not what we call preventive medicine, bitt more ap- propriately a disease. A screen inside the· ~tadiwn presently reviews excitingplays, but does not replay controversial calls as a practice. I suggest we leave it this way. To change the call due to a verification with electronic devices or a replay screen totally puts the job of the referee in limbo. Sooner or later, fans will argue the validity of the machines. An over-reliance on machines is dangerous, as has been evident in many sectors .of our daily lives. The fact that refs make mistf,lkes is part of the beauty of the game, because sports has and should continue to deal with individuals at- tempting to reach, ·but not reaching, perfection. Tbis is what makes the game an eternal challenge. In addition, is it not true that in sports the only entity we always trust is ourselves-; so no matter who makes the judgements, we'll always question the decisions? We have alrea!ly seen instances of the player and the fan turning into animals. Let's not create another monster, the instant replay. In the slalom event on Saturday, Union was led· by senior Fred Thimrn, who came in first place. His younger brother, Peter, skiing for Army, took second place .. only .05 seconds behind~ Also for Union, Jeff Ince, a jtmior, finished ninth. John Mercer, skiing this yearforUnionforthe first time, finished in the 15th place. On Sunday in the ginat slalom, the Union team displayed the competitive consistency that has made them one of the top ranked Division II ski teams in the East. On an excellent course set by former U.S. Olympic Team member Taffy Doust, the Union racers won the event. Thimm recovered from a costly error in the first run to improve his time in the second run by 1.5 seconds and win the race. Senior Tom Sargent, who last year was named to the Division II All-East Ski Team, combined two of the quickest runs of his college career to place fifth, and Jeff Ince again turned in an outstanding performance, coming in tenth. Cagers Dip Below .500 Level In the 12 km cross-country race, junior Mark Arienti defended Union's honor placing 15th in a strong field of 60 racers. Arienti was in excellent physical condition and held his own against the x:-country powerhouses from Colgate and R.P.I. Competing against male competitors twice their By MIKE CANNING It was a week of ups and downs for the Union basketball team. The week started on an up note with a convincing 64-48 victory over visiting Platt- sburgh State. However, the Dutchmen ran into trouble when they traveled to Hamilton, N.Y., on Monday night to take on Division I opponent, Colgate. The Red Raiders of Colgate proved to be too much for the Dutchmen, winning by a score of 102-66. Juniort JohnJarosakrecovered from a bout with the flu which sidelines him in last week's defeat at Rochester in time to score the game's first .five points to spark Union to a 13..0 lead against Plattsburgh. Jarosak scored all nine of his points in the first half as the Dutchmen rolled to a com- fortable 32·22 halftime margin. The hot shooting hands of guards Joe Cardany and Joe Clinton, along with the power rebounding. of John Montanile and John Krum kept the Car- dinals at bay in the second half and Union coasted to a 64-48 victory. Cardany paced Union's effort with a solid 18 point per- formance and backcourt part- ner Joe Clinton chipped in with 14 points and 9 assists. Mon- tanile and Krum each con- tributed 7 rebounds. Monday's game against Colgate was one which Union would like to forget as quickly as possible. The Division I foe featured the nation's second leading scorer, Mike Ferrara, carrying a 28.6 points per game ;:- average. Union held Ferrara to <11 22 points but teammate Kevin ~ Ryan picked up the slack and 1: poured in 26 points. ~ Cardany and Clinton provided >- Union with 37 points but it was .c not enough to keep the Dut- ~ chmen in the game. -a Union continues its rugged schedule witb Central Con- necticut on Wednesday at 8:00 and Division III powerhouse St. Lawrence on Saturday at 4:00. Both games are at Memorial Fieldhouse. Union has not lost a home game in over a year with Plattsburgh Stat-e denied the last loss occurring on Jan. 7, 1980. Come out and see the games. Your support will be appreciated. l.. Cll Ul 0 l.. CXl >- \0 c: ~ >- .a 0 .... 0 .!: a. • ] I ]

ef a p- een ttly .oes las eit due 1nic een the or the nes ~en our ·efs the liSe me at· not is an on, the is rho ~·ll IS? :es ng lte mt 7, he be >- .0 0 0 .r: a.. ~ \~--~- . - ~ .• ......, )_l:;:s:::\m e ~\ ,:- .. Y Jane Woodr Unionrs Sorority Coordinator Tri-Delta Sorority Co-lonization Begins The Greek system is growing here: Union will soon have .a new sorority. Delta Delta Delta, known nationally as Tri-Delt, is coming next week to form a new colony. Seventy-three women have signed up currently to participate in the coming rush. this project, and it appears that there will be housing for the sorority next fall. People with any questions are urged to inquire with Mrs. Wood; registration can be done at the Student Activities Office. Student Forum: -- • January 29, 1981 Volume 110, Number 12 • Union Tuition to Rise By J·ILL BRYCE For>the siXth consecutive year tuition at Union will increase. The tuition for 198H2 will be $6,300, an increase of $780 over this year's tuition. In addition, room and board fees for the common ac- cornodations will also increase from $2,050 this year to $2,300 for 1981-82. Together, buition., room and board wiU increase 13.6 percent of $1,030. This raises the total cost .from $7,570 this year to $8,600 for 1981-82. These figures do not take into account personal expenses which can amount to con- siderable sums of money considering the cost of travel to and from the college, books, and telephone services. In citing reasons for the tuition increase, John B. Hauser, vice president for finance and administration, stated that ''rising prices have been catching up to Union and the College has reached the point where it must raise tuition or the program at Union will be damaged. Faculty and staff face the same inflationary problems as anyone and they must have increased salaries to deal with these problems. If the College cannot offer its staff a reasonable salary it will hurt itself-for it will not have the right people.\ Employee compensation for 198-82 is an increase of 13.4 percent while the employee compensation increase for 1980-81 was 10.4 percent. Along with the increase in tuition will be an increase in financial aid of $350,000 or approximately 20 percent. Heat bills and maintenance costs are not a significant factor in the tuition increase. Hauser noted that no new dollars were given to the energy budget because Union is starting to get the benefits of energy conservation work which was cempleted earlier on campus .. (See story, page 3.) There are the reasons for the tuition increase, including employee compensation, tuition, room and board and an increase in financial aid, but regardless of the reasons there is a higher tuition for 1981.a2 and with it comes added con- cern over the increase and how to deal with a higher bill. Mr. Hauser suggests that students talk to those in the financial aid office, for there is an increase in both the college financial aid program and the federal program. Also the college work study now offers the full minimum wage. Students here may be won- dering whether other schools similar to this one are in- creasing their tuition. Union is compared regularly with 36 other institutions, and rates midpoint in regard to tuition, room, and board. One area college, RPI, will have an 18 percent tuition increase for 1981-82. All data obtained thus far by Mr. Hauser indicate that many colleges will have at least as high a tuition increase, if not higher, for the same basic reasons. The process to begin a new sorority started last year. At that time, a number of national sororities came to Union for a mutual sizing up. According to Michael Andolina, Assistant' Dean of Students, sororities have qualifications that they look for, and it is very expensive to colonize. Because the national organization must budget for this, they are cautious and look thoroughly for support. Discusses Student Newspapers In discussing the increased tuition, Mr. Hauser added that \the administration and college staff who have worked and wrestled with the budget are sensitive to the charges passed on the students.\ He also believes that the expenses are both necessary and justified, because 70 to 75 percent of the College's expenditures come from tuition, room and board, which makes Union heavily dependent on this source. According to com- munications, Tri-Delt is very impressed with the support they have been receiving from Union's Administration. Local Delta Delta Delta AlUIIinae, as well as the Pan Hellenic Council have been working hard, in conjunction with Jane Wood, Union's soroyity coordinator. Mrs. Wood is a full time intern from SUNY, working twice a week in Student Activities and three days at Placement. \The two other sororities have also been very sup- portive,\ said Mrs. Wood. The Field Secretary for Tri-Delt, Sally Clich, will arrive this weekend. She will stay at Union for about a month, possibly staying at DG. Also coming next week will be Marion Pass, a national Tri- Delt representative from Texas, and a group from the Syracuse Chapter of the sorority. Tri-Delt is looking for \well-rounded\ people, as well as women with leadership potential who will be able to keep the colony together. No limit has been put on the ·number of people who will start this chapter. Activities for colonization begin next Tuesday with an open house. Wednesday, the Tri-Delt team will conduct short conferences with those women who registered. Feb. 5 there will be a final party, and the sorority will send out its bids; those accepting will be the new Tri- Delt Colony. Registration will be open until 2 p.m Feb. 3. Dean of Students Robert H. Kellett has also been working on By GALE VANORE The Student Forum, during its Monday meeting, discussed issues brought up by the Finance Committee and the Student Activities Council (SAC). Jim 'Fisher, Vice President of Finance, mentioned that \Union Views\ approached the Finance Committee to ask for more money; the staff needs an extra $800 in order to be published twice a term for winter and spring terms. Questions that arose were whether or not to give \Union Views\ the money and what will become of the paper next year. Fisher feels a finan-cial obligation toward the paper: \Because they only come out twice a term, companies realize there are better forms of ad~ vertising at Union College.\ ~'It d()esn 't m.ake sense to fulld two papers that report basical(y the same thing.\ The Forum also discussed whether or not to keep Union Views and Concordiensis separate. One idea was that by putting them together, both costs and similarity would be cut. Welden Turner, junior representative, said, \It doesn't ~ make sense to fund two papers :g that report basically the same 00 thing.\ The Forum is waiting > one wEek until they can meet E with members of both staffs in :::;E order to discuss the situation. E Senior I'epresentative Vern 0 Wetmore requested feedback 'b from the Forum on the idea of 5: the self-scheduling of examinations,. which the SAC was to discuss at their Wed- nesday meeting. Wetmore stated, \Vice President Thomas D'Andrea suggested the idea. He wants to see a more mature attitude in learning here. This is a step.\ Turner, however, contended, \I think the cons outweigh the pros. Students most definitely will cheat whether or not there is an honor code.\ A poll was taken among the forum members: six were in favor of the idea, four opposed and two abstained. Wetmore also mentioned that For Handicapped: Robert H. Kellett, Dean of Students, announced that a committee will be looking into a campus-wide insurance policy. Kellett also talked about a new method of acknowledging students with distinct service awards .at graduation; he feels many students go unnoticed. One idea was a \Who's Who\ of college students. The three criteria are academic merit, extracurricular activities, and campus and community par- ticipation. This table shows a 47 percent increase in tuition in the past 6 years while consmner price index has risen 50 percent. 1976-77 1977-78 1978-79 1979-80 1980-81 1981-82 $3,750 $4,200 $4,600 $5,000 $5,520 $6,300 New Facilities Installed By ROBERTA RUBINSTEIN Last January the Federal government supplied Union with funds to finance the building of handicapped facilities in the residence halls on campus. Within a short time, contractors were hired to begin making the necessary provisions in both North and South Dormitories. They began by widening one entrance to each dorm and the doorways to the lounges, bathrooms and a nwnber of bedrooms. David Wood, Director of Residence Life, indicated that there were a nmnber of problems with the contractors and designing. The necessary gripped railings were put into the showers at South, Ramp In back of North for handicapped students but because of complications they were not yet installed in North Dorm. There will be a considerable delay before ·an the facilities are completed. But within time students confined to wheelchairs will have the op- portunity to reside on Union's campus with relatively easy access to all residence facilities.

., Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, January 29, 1981 Editorial: Tri-Delta Broaden·s Women's Rights The word is finally out. Tri-Delta has decided to colonize on campus. It will become Union's t.hird sorority. Colonization procedures, including an orientation party and interviews, will be held on Feb. 3, 4, and 5. Jane Wood is in charge of the colonization which will occur through the Student Activities Of- fice. (See story page 1.) At the beginning of fall term, Kappa Kappa Gamma was scheduled to begin colonization along with Tri· Delta. Kappa Kappa Gamma decided to pull out for various reasons last October. There was also some confusion as to whether Tri-Delta would · also reconsider forming a colony at Union. The decision was finalized, however, at the beginning of Winter Term. With 17 fraternities and only two sororities, there was definitely a need for another sorority on campus. This was demonstrated by the great enthusiasm ghowu by Union women when the colonization was announced. Union is known as the \Mother of Fraternities,'' but since 1970, the College has become co-ed. Campus social life is often run by fraternities. ror map.y people the fraternity way of life offers valuable experiences, as well as just plain fun. The choice of fraternities for men on campus is quite large.· Picking the right house to join is, of course, important to the overall experience of any individual. There is no reason why the women on campus should not be offered the same choice. Women have a right to just as much diversity as men. The addition of another sorority is important since it begins to expand the Greek system for women. The addition of another sorority also gives women a greater chance to be heard throughout all of campus life. A strong Greek system is an asset as long as it is fair and equal to both men and women. Fraternities often pride themselves on the work and effort they have put into establishing a strong, lasting tradition. Now women are being offered the same chance to develop and strengthen their own system. We are not advocating a great influx of sororities into the school just to \even the score,\ so to speak. What we are . advocating is the expansion of a tradition which is important to the campus as a whole. At the same time, we want to welcome Tri- Delta to the Union community and wish them only good luck and success in establishing themselves. EDITOR'S NOTE: We apologize to Alan D. Nelson and llene Kaplan for the mistake in the article concerning Dr. William Roth in last week's issue of Concordiensis. Nelson has been named Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies, along with Roth, while Kaplan was named Associate Dean of Faculty in three newly created positions. An article is forthcoming in the next issue of · Concordiensis. ~ditors-bl-~ief Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features ~ditors · Arts ~ditors Photo Editor Sports Editors Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Staff Photo Staff Calligraphy Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Paul Grossman Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Judi Chervenak, D. Booth Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos · Richard A. Sher Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Steve Lerner Rachel I. Mandel Jeff Scardino Ellen Berger Maria Manfredonia Mindy Broser, Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Kent Avery, Mindy Broser, Charis Richards 1 Claire Burchill CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by .the· student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-7151. Ent~red in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. . grnups to· · · · . · · .. • · . ··. ·. · ~u))1 ~e . · · · · ·. ·• • . •·· .. · ·. ·. ·. · .. · · .·. tne.moneytba~,w,ould·.h~va.been ., .. praetiee··what•·they\'pr~aclrr .,,. t~~.4 ·. J1..l¥~}{,,,Jil)f,,;;r,gy£m!Jng.,.,tJlat, . . \o:' ;: ,,,,,,,.,,A;,· . ,. •,;:·:·,.\\ '\\\\\\\' ... : ·' \ .«. ,·;,:,\; .<;.•··,;,, .. , •.. ,·.: .. ·.: ,. \'\ .. ·\' ·•\f,!·*.f' w·. ···'• '\· •·;·,,., .••• the real.. ttlas.oll for ... not., in,- . · crElq$i,ng .. t.na. ...fe:.tL .. '\was. .... the irr qsi.bility .. and.. .. .. /ihottr, s . . .. ~§~ of tbe ForU~n;. YQU on9e ,flE~ln oointed ........ .JlPt.... ·., .. ext!'~~~ ..... :t,~Ak:r .,Qf., ~o.'Wl .····. regardbl,g the mFJtter .. l do.: not ·• know ho.:w: I ever ... eoqlti ha,ve · · · 'lloAi'he·YEditors:•\>\' .· ·• • \'.··· qtiesttQnat d1e ~n:.p~weritru AilCi .. · · · .o y. ~ ... .. , . . , omni~ci~ut Editors of ... ,C.o.n.. . ....... J;. ... JmLdmniting,%tbis·.,Jettel\ ·in ,,., ,4illeet'W'\\'to ··tlie+':trditorls2\ .... ,,;Atr'·l col'die~i$. . .. response,,b.>:··the . .QeeisloaoiFibct'····· part of theDean of Students .. to Frosh Rep Elections Elections for the two Fresh- man Class Representative positions to the Student Forum have been rescheduled and will take place next Monday, Feb. 2, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the .lobby of Carnegie Hall. All freshmen are eligible to vote. If necessary, run-offs will take place Thursday, Feb. 6. Here are the four candidates' plat- form statements that did not appear in last week's issue. The statements of Thomas F. Gergo Jr., Timothy J. Smith and Vivian Stern appeared last week. Robert Bass in A 100-word political platform can be as difficult to write as a five-page precept paper. However, as a representative of the Class of '84, I would have an opportunity to share with the administration the desires of the freshman student body. In turn, I would try to get them to act upon these requests. Among these would be a way of scheduling terms so as to have us let out earlier in the summer as well as trying to make our vacations coincide with those of other schools: In addition, I would try and bring our student body closer together. If these are among the things you desire as a Union freshman, vote for me. Gary S. Lehr Many of you are used to the idea of a high school student council, a concentrated group of popular students who are limited in what they can ac- complish. Union's Student Forum is different. This body is an extremely important .part of our College community. Each year the Forum is allotted approximately $200,000 which is used for different events throughout the school year. If elected, I will try to make sure that every student is affected by this allocation, Instead of a select few. Also, I will try to represent the ideas and in- terests of you, the Freshman Class, to the best of my ability. Jeffrey Berger Many freslunen are unaware of the Student Forum's func- tion. The Forum exists to ex- press the interests of the student body, and to help fur- ther the goals and ideals of Union College. The freshman representative to the Student Forum ·must be able to deal effectively with the concerns of his class. This can only be accomplished if active communication exists between the representative and his constituents. My high school experience in student govern- ment and school organizations leads me to believe that I will be able to establish these lines of communication. My election will assure a strong and in- formed voice from the fresh- man class. Caryn Opengart Being the newest members of the student population, fresh- men often feel it is .difficult to have an influential say b1 student government. Student Forum is a place where in- teraction among all the classes can take place, and I feel .J am capable of voicing the opinions of our class. Due to my in- volvement in high school and in college, (Concordiensis reporter, intramurals, dance) Union life is one that I am familiar with. I know it is unrealistic to change things by myself or to promise that I'll be able to implement all my ideas, but it can only help to have someone on the Forum who will try . >- .D 0 0 f ~:- l : 1 ' ....;.\ Direc s· By. A d pleme1 stud en switcl1 studer depart safety, the c~ p.m. throug This couldl lay of1 Sec uri' emplo howev, Thrc Wood, and s~ the full for the not b Sec uri no stu laid of Adn Chris 1 useth« foot p~ The

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS, January 29, 1981 Editorial: Tri-Delta Broadens Women's Rights The word is finally out. Tri-Delta has decided to colonize on campus. It will become Union's third sorority. Colonization procedures, including an orientation party and interviews, will be held on Feb. 3, 4, and 5. Jane Wood is in charge of the colonization which will occur through the Student Activities Of- fice. (See story page 1.) At the beginning of fall term, Kappa Kappa Gamma was scheduled to begin colonization along with Tri- Delta. Kappa Kappa Gamma decided to pull out for various reasons last October. There was also some confusion as to whether Tri-Delta would also reconsider forming a colony at Union. The decision was finalized, however, at the beginning of Winter Term. With 17 fraternities and only two sororities, there was definitely a need for another sorority on campus. This wa:s demonstrated by the great enthusiasm r.:howu by Union women when the colonization was announced. Union is known as the \Mother of F'raternities,\ but since 1970, the College has become w-ed. Campus social life is often run by fraternities. r·(Jr many people the fraternity way of life offers \al uable experiences, as well as just plain fun. The choice of fraternities for men on campus is quite large. Picking the right house to join is, of course, important to the overall experience of any individual. There is no reason why the women on campus should not be offered the same choice. Women have a right to just as much diversity as men. The addition of another sorority is important since it begins to expand the Greek system for women. The addition of another sorority also gives women a greater chance to be heard throughout all of campus life. A strong Greek system is an asset as long as it is fair ahd equal to both men and women. Fraternities often pride themselves on the work and effort they have put into establishing a strong, lasting tradition. Now women are being offered the same chance to develop and strengthen their own system. We are not advocating a great influx of sororities into the school just to \even the score,\ so to speak. What we are advocating is the expansion of a tradition which is important to the campus as a whole. At the same time, we want to welcome Tri- Delta to the Union community and wish them only good luck and success in establishing themselves. EDITOR'S NOTE: We apologize to Alan D. Nelson and Ilene Kaplan for the mistake in the article concerning Dr. William Roth in last week's issue of Concordiensis. Nelson has been named Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies, along with Roth, while Kaplan was named Associate Dean of Faculty in three newly created positions. An article is forthcoming in the next issue of Concordiensis. &don ~- . ... concoroienu1a Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Photo Editor Sports Editors Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Staff Photo Staff Calligraphy Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Paul Grossman Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Judi Chervenak, D. Booth Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Richard A. Sher Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Steve Lerner Rachel I. Mandel Jeff Scardino Ellen Berger Maria Manfredonia Mindy Broser, Claire Burchill, Charis Richards KentAvery, MindyBroser, Charis Richards 1 Claire Burchill CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc.; 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. ---Letters----·· Rise of Activity F~e To the Editors: Marvelous editorial. The way in which you masterfully brought forth the facts truly impressed me. Reading last week's editorial, \Activity Fee Should Rise,\ opened my eyeLt to the true realities of the · · Student Forum, Student Activity Fee and The Board of Trustees. I had always been under the ridiculous impression The Board of Trustees could raise Student Activities Fees during any given year, but having read your e~itorial, I learned I was severely mistaken. Is it only during the Carter Administration that taxes can be raised, or is it any rainy Wednesday? I also naively thought the Student Forum was in the process of drawing up policy for the allocation of funds. Obviously, I was entirely in• correct because your editorial explained that tbis was to be done arbitrarily. Once mqre my ignorance got the better of me, I had believed · that the rationale behind not increasing the Student Activities Fee was to save the money of the student who is not involved in \hobby type\ ac- tivities and allow the student who does participate in these groups to· invest, in the group, the money that would have been taxed away. By revealing that tbe real reason .for not in- creasing the fee was the irresponsibility and short- sightedness of the Forum, you once again pointed out my extreme lack of knowledge regarding the matter. I do not · know how I ever could have questioned the all..,powerful and omniscient Editors of Con- cordiensis. William Lloyd ClaSI'! of '82 Responsibility of Finances To the Editors: In respnnse to last week's Editorial, I feel thatthe labeling of the Student F'orwn as \irresponsible\ was uncalled for and hypocritical. The allocation of money by the Finance Committee is not an easy task. Therefore, ·it is in- deed \the recipients' r~spon­ sibility to prudently spend the funds so allocated . . . Groups that don't meet this respon* sibility should be penalized ... \ Concordiensis is a :major recipient of the allocated money. Then it is in the Editor's own vocabulary that Con- c:ordiensis is irresponsible. In each of the first two issues of this term,. there have been two articles that were almost identical. In the issue of Jan. 15, appearing on page one and again on page four were two very similar articles about the expansion of Hale House. Last week, there were two articles about the lack of heat ·in North College. It would seem tiJ be the responsibility of the Editors to see that something like this does not occlll\. Should C&mcordiensis be penalized? Is wasting space irresponsible? I do not mean this as a cut at Concordiensis, yet it appears to me that the Editors should practice what they preach. Rich Tanenbaum Classof'82 Alcohol Issue Noted To the Editors: I am writing this letter in response to the decision on the part of theDean of Students to eliminate drink specials at the Pub and the Skellar. Let me say at the outset that I am well aware of the prevalence of alcohol on this campus and the attendant problems. that its abuse has caused. Howevert ts eliminating drink specials a real solution to the problem? I think not. It seems axiomatic of this 1 a.nd previous ad- mimstrations of this college, to attack the symptoms of a problem rather than face its root causes .. This only tends to exasperate the problem rather than solve it. I do not claim to have any magic solutions to the aUeged drinking problem that this administration believes it must confront. I am relieved that the administration is aware of the problem and is indeed · trying to rectify it. Yet it seems to me that rather than eliminate drink specials~ the ad- ministration should be at- tempting to provide alternate social activities, to alleviate the seeming need of students to intoxicate themselves. As one of our student representatives pointed out at last term's _Final Student Forum meeting, if students cannot obtain alcohol here they will simply go . elsewhere to drink. I regret- tably concur in this judgment. Attempts to limit the supply of a desired substance have seldom succeeded in diminishing the demand. Certainly there must be a better answer to the drinking problem on this campus than to eliminate drink specials. AlanSaler Class of '81 Concordiensis welcomes letters from all members of the campus conununity. They can · be delivered to the newspaper office, on the fourth floor of · Carnegie Hall. If no one is in the office, the letter can be slipped under the door and will be directed to the editors. All letters must be signed, typed and include the sender's telephone number, so that their validity can be verified. Frosh Rep Elections Elections for the two Fresh- man Class Representative positions to the Student Forum have been rescheduled and will take place next Monday, Feb. 2, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the lobby of Carnegie Hall. All freshmen are eligible to vote. If necessary, run-offs will take place Thursday, Feb. 6. Here are the four candidates' plat- form statements that did not appear in last week's issue. The statements of Thomas F. Gergo Jr., Timothy J. Smith and Vivian Stern appeared last week. Robert Bassin A 100-word political platform can be as difficult to write as a five-page precept paper. However, as a representative of the Class of '84, I would have an opportunity to share with the administration the desires of the freshman student body. In turn, I would try to get them to act upon these requests. Among these would be a way of schedul,ing terms so as to have us let out earlier in the summer as well as trying to make our vacations coincide with those of other schools. In addition, I would try and bring our student body closer together. If these are among the things you desire as a Union freshman, vote for me. Gary S. lehr Many of you are used to the idea of a high school student council, a concentrated group of popular students who are limited in what they can ac- complish. Union's Student Forrnn is different. This body is an extremely important part of our College community. Each year the Forum is allotted approximately $200,000 which is used for different events throughout the school year. If elected, I will try to make sure that every student is affected by this allocation, instead of a select few. Also, I will try to represent the ideas and in- terests of you, the Freshman Class, to the best of my ability. Jeffrey Berger Many freslunen are unaware of the Student Forum's func- tion. The Forum exists to ex- press the interests of the student body, and to help fur- ther the goals and ideals of Union College. The freshlnan representative to the Student Forum must be able to deal effectively with the concerns of his class. This can only be accomplished if active communication exists between the representative and his constituents. My high school experience in student govern• ment and school organizations leads me to believe that I will be able to establish these lines of communication. My election will assure a strong and in- formed voice from the fresh- man class. Caryn Opengart Being the newest members of the student population, fresh- men often feel it is difficult to have an influential say in student government. Student Forum is a place where in- teraction among all the classes can take place, and I feel I am capable of voicing the opinions of our class. Due to my in- volvement in high school and in college, (Concordiensis reporter, intramurals, dance) Union life is one that I am familiar with. I know it is unrealistic to change things by myself or to promise that I'll be able to implement all my ideas, but it can only help to have someone on the Forum who will try. - t ··-.. ~ 111 Ill 0 ~ C£1 :>- \0 c: ~ >- .D 0 .... 0 .r:. 0. Dire1 s By A ( pleme studer switcl stude deparl safety the c' p.m. throu~ Tllli could • lay of Secur: empl< howe' Thr' Wood, and S thefw for th1 not 1 Secur no st1 laid o Adr Chris useth foot p The

... aJ ., .0 ... Ill >- '0 c: ~ >- .D 0 .... 0 .r:: a. OONOORDIENSIS, January 29, 1981 P~ge 3 ~c~i:W.:':'>$' \ I ;~, i §] . ._;;' Director of Campus Ope.rations Jack Hill Jack Hill: He Operates the Campus By JOEM~GUIRE The Sllil is not at the center of the solar system. Jack. Hill's office is. ' Maybe not, but the Office of Director of Campus Operations can surely be thought of as the hub of the wheel that is Union College. An afternoon interview with Mr. Hill can quickly turn into a lesson in campus dependence on one man. Hill is connected to just about every campus ad- ministrator you can think of. He has his hands in everything, and he seems to enjoy that . Hill's major project this year has been a four-phase campus- wide energy conservation program. The program is funded by a $2-million loan from the New York State Dormitory Authority. Earlier this week Concordiensis spoke with Mr. Hill about recent progress. minutes.\ Hill feels it is also significant that gas does not put a thick, black soot in the at- mosphere, as oil does. Hill said that his total spen- ding on all of the projects is \right at what had been projected.\ After fielding a ·phone call concerning the oil-to- gas conversioN, he added that the date when these projects are expected to pay for themselves in sayings is advancing every day. Originally it was felt that six years would be required before the energy savings would exceed the cost of these projects. As energy costs go up, however, so does the amount saved, decreasing the figure .from six years. Student Jobs S0ved The first topic of discussion was the condition of some of the temperature control systems in residence halls. Hill had received reports of uneven and excessive temperatures, particularly in North College and Bronner House. Residents of other buildings had also complained of low tem- peratures at night. Hill cited \uncompleted work in the controls\ as cause for the ex- treme temperature problems in North and Bronner. Hill also commented that evening temperature setbacks of 10 degrees have been reduced to 5 degrees and delayed until midnight every night. This action was taken to eliminate low temperatures during the evening and night hours. He said that for now his office will be \very conservative\ in dormitory temperatures. Hill doesn't want cold students. One of Hill's non-energy programs this year concerns handicapped access to campus buildings. (See story, page 1). Ratnps have already been added to North and South Colleges, and in the all-night study area of the library. Handicapped bathroom facilities are now being planned in the library. By JEFFREY WARMAN A decision has been im- plemented which put an end to students operating the campus switchboard. It was these students, working for the department of security and safety, who answered calls to the campus operator after 5 p.m. on weeknights, and throughout the entire weekend. This decision, as it turned out, could have made it necessary to lay off up to one-fourth· of the Security department's student employees. This layoff, however, was avoided. Through the work of Clifford Wood, the. director of Security and Safety, it was decided that -8 the funds previously used to pay :0 for the student operators would -5 not be diverted from the ~ Security department, meaning ., no students would have to be ·c laid off. B >- Administrative Sergeant .a campus is not a completely new one. As recently as 1976 the- Security department had had such· a program in operation, and it also has been used on campus during vacation breaks when the dormitories and classrooms are empty. Under the present system, two students will be on· patrol downcampus from 8:30 p.m. ' &Y ,§? ~ I . I' I \ ..,.. Chris Chadwick then decided to o 0 use these funds to start a nightly .c '\\·t,, 1 ,,,k,,, foot patrol around the campus. a.. \\\'\'\'\'\''· The concept of a foot p~trol on Campus operator at the phone Dutch Hollow Pub Frida·y & Sa.turday 5:00-7:30 p.m. BEEF & BREW Free salad bar, pitcher of beer or carafe of wine with each meal +For the remainder of winter term,the Pub will be closed on Saturday days. The bar will open at 4:30 p.m. and dinner at 5:00 p.m. until midnight, seven days a week. Among their other duties, these students will close the library each night, make checks on closed administrative and classroom buildings, and will serve as a deterrent against vandalism on campus. Even- tually these students will be also closing the Science and Engineering Center each night. Temperature maintenance is only one of Jack Hill's projects and right now he is working on about a dozen. Most· of these have to do with energy con- servation. All of them depend on Hill's ability to concentrate on several things at once. Apologizing for a telephone interruption concerning lighting contracts, Hill resumed the interview with the topic of oil to gas furnace conversion. Union's central steam generating plant should be able to make this conversion \any day now.\ The director of campus operations expects to be operating Wlder gas power \for the next two or three years,., but points out that aft'er the conversion is made the furnaces will be capable of using gas or oil, and can switch from one to the other \in a matt~r of See us on campus. A Digital representative from LSI Manufacturing will be on campus on February 13, 1981 Also in the library, major air distribution work will com- mence March 19. Extensive work must be done and it is hoped that most of the noisy work will be completed by the first week of spring term. After another business call, this one concerning payrolls, Hill spoke of a suggestion he received from a member of the Student Environmental Alliance. He is considering having a contest in energy ef- ficiency among all residence halls. That hall which is deemed most efficient during the con- test period will win a prize. If the prize is attractive enough, halls may become very energy conscious. Hill likes the idea, and he is working on it. It seems that there is very little that Jack Hill isn't working on. And what he works on, works well. No wonder his phone never stops ringing. to meet Electrical Engineers, and Co~m:.!:.p_ut_e_r _Sc:....ie_n_ce_M..:.aj:....o_rs _______ _ For additional information contact: Your Placement 0 ffice

>- .0 0 0 ~ OONOORDIENSIS, Jantmry 29, 1981 Page 3 Director of Campus Ope.rations Jack Hill Jack Hill: He Operates the Campus By JOE MAGUIRE The stm is nat at the center of the solar system. Jack Bill's office is. Maybe not, but the Office of Director of Campus Operations can surely be thought of as the hub af the wheel that is Union College. An afternoon interview with Mr. Hill can quickly turn into a lesson in campus dependence on one man. Hill is connected to just about every campus ad- ministrator you can think of. He has his hands in everything, and he seems to enjoy that. Hill's major project this year has been a four-phase campus- wide energy conservation program. The program is funded by a $2-million loan from the New York State Dormitory Authority. Earlier this week Concordiensis spoke with Mr. Hill about recent progress. minutes.\ Hill feels it is also significant that gas does not put a thick, black soot in the at· mosphere, as oil does. Hill said that his total spen· ding on all of the projects is \right at what had been projected.\ After fielding a phone call concerning the oil-to- gas conversion, he added that the date when these projects are expected to pay for themselves in sayings is advancing every day. Originally it was felt that six years would be required before the energy savings would exceed the cost of these projects. As energy costs go up, however, so does the amount saved, decreasing the figure from six years. Student Jobs Saved The first tepic of discussion was the condition of some of the temperature control systems in residence halls. Hill had received reports of uneven and excessive temperatures, particularly in North College and Bronner House. Residents of other buildings had also complained of low tem- peratures at night. Hill cited \uncompleted work in the controls'' as cause for the ex- treme temperature problems in North and Bronner. Hill also commented that evening temperature setbacks of 10 degrees have been reduced to 5 degrees and delayed until midnight every night. This action was taken to eliminate low temperatures during the evening and nign.t hours. He said that for now his office will be \very conservative\ in dormitory temperatures. Hill doesn't want cold students. One of Hill's non-energy programs this year concerns handicapped access to campus buildings. (See story, page 1). Ramps have already been added to North and South Colleges, and in the all-night study area of the library. Handicapped bathroom facilities are now being planned in the library. By JEFFREY WARMAN A decision has been im- plemented which put an end to students operating the campus switchboard. It was these students, working for the department of seclll\ity and safety, who answered calls to the campus operator after 5 p.m. on weeknights, and throughout the entire weekend. This decision, as it turned out, could have made it necessary to lay off up to one-fourth -of the Security department's student employees. This layoff, however, was avoided. Through the work of Clifford Wood, the director of Security and Safety, it was decided that lfl \0 the funds previously used to pay ..._ ttl for the student operators would -5 not be diverted from the D! Security department, meaning Vl no students would have to be ..._ ro laid off. _c u >- Administrative Sergeant ..o Chris Chadwick then decided to ~ use these funds to start a nightly _g foot patrol around the campus. a.. The concept of a foot patrol on campus is not a completely new one. As recently as 1976 the Security department had had such a program in operation, and it also has been used on campus during vacation breaks when the dormitories and classrooms are empty. Under the present system, two students will be on patrol downcampus from 8:30 p.m. t Campus operator at the phone Dutch 1-Iollow Pub Friday & Saturday 5:00-7:30 p.m. BEEF & BREW Free salad bar, pitcher of beer or carafe of wine with each meal +For the remainder of winter term, the Pub will be dosed on Saturday days. The bar will open at 4:30 p.m. and dinner at 5:00 p.m. until midnight, seven days a week. Among their other duties, these students will close the library each night, make checks on closed administrative and classroom buildings, and will serve as a deterrent against vandalism on campus. Even- tually these students will be also closing the Science and Engineering Center each night. Temperature maintenance is only one of Jack Hill's projects and right now he is working on about a dozen. Most of these have to do with energy con- servation. All of them depend on Hill's ability to concentrate on several things at once. Apologizing for a telephone interruption concerning lighting contracts, Hill resumed the interview with the topic of oil to gas furnace conversion. Union's central steam generating plant should be able to make this conversion \any day now.\ The director of campus operations expects to be operating under gas power \for the next two or three years,\ but points out that after the conversion is made the furnaces will be capable of using gas or oil, and can switch from one to the other \in a matter of See us on campus. A Digital reprP~ent,ltivc from LSI Manufacturing Will he on r ,l!n pu<, un Februal)' 13, !9Rl Also in the library, major air distribution work will com- mence March 19. Extensive work must be done and it is hoped that most of the noisy work will be completed by the first week of spring term. After another business call, this one concerning payrolls, Hill spoke of a suggestion he received from a member of the Student Environmental Alliance. He is considering having a contest in energy ef· ficiency among all residence halls. That hall which is deemed most efficient during the con- test period ·will win a prize. If the prize is attractive enough, halls may become very energy conscious. Hill likes the idea, and he is working on it. It seems that there is very little that Jack Hill isn't working on. And what he works on, works well. No wonder his phone never stops ringing. t'-\-o-'-'m\\r~E't'--- Electrical Engmeers, and Computer S~~en_cc_M__:aj~o_rs ________ _ For Jdditwnal inform<~! Jon wntact: Your Placement Office

Page '4 OONCORDIENBIS) Ja,nuary 29) 1981 c I1J E Ul Ul 0 ..._ 0 li >- .0 0 .... 0 s::. a.. keady for dinner at a nearby castle Term Abroad: Italy On· a· 10-Week Adventure By BETSY MODEST, MATTCOBEN and JOE LAURIN FIRENZE, ITALIA, Sept. 22-Union group arrived in Piazza Santo Spirito and began . an adveBture which lasted only a short ten weeks. This group of 32 road-ragged Unionites assembled from all corners of Europe to settle down and \study/' • Upon arrival we were given an introductory party by the Eurocentro (the international student center which hosts t)le Union program) and became acquainted with the place and people we would be with every day. We received family names and addresses, were told to report for class the following afternoon, and were sent on our way. As we stumbled thr>Ough the Florentine streets in 16 • different directions, it was hard to imagine that these over- whelming foreign surroundings would quickly become \home.\ two full weekend trips to Venice and Rome. We managed to see most of these places in the ·rain, but never seemed to get tired of throwing on a raincoat or opening ~P an umbrella. In Venice, the combined effort of high tide, full moon, and rain caused a major flood of the city. We spent all of that Saturday stomping through a foot and a half (more in some places) of water, wandering around one of the world's most unique cities- barefoot! Because the following day was one of the sunniest, clearest days we had seen in a long time, on the whole, we got to see Venice at its worst and at its best! Thanks to Prof. McCord's arranging for us to have an extra day in Rome, with no complaints from us \kids we were able to do Rome justice as well. On the weekends which were not pre-organized, we were free to travel to any other ends of the earth. \Who's going to Capri, Switzerland, Munich, Fiesole, \was a frequent .cry around the Eurocentro. As far as. location in relation to traveling to see other European attractions, Florence is tops. But if there's one word to know for the Italian train traveler though, it's . \sciopero\! The Italy Term Abroad was amazing. Prof. McCord and his entire family were fantastic. The pasta and the vino could not be beat. So what more can we say? Take advantage of this Union program which offers so much. A better fall term you'll never see. , (We'll meet you at the Duomo at 9 a.m.) Term Abroad: England Term Abroad: France A Common Bond By ANDY SOBEL It's net much unlike your first kiss, or yeur first day at College, or your first a:irpl;;me ride; you go into it with plenty o( instructions· and plenty of anxiety. But unlike the afo.rernentioned three situations, within your first 72 hours in Rennes, France, you realize your fears are ab• solutely justified. You do have trouble com- municating with your French family, as you freeze when trying to respond to a simple \Aimez-vous ces legumes?\ (\Do you like these vegetables?''). And you have to consci:ously remember it's \Bonjour\ and not \Good Morning.\ And you don't know • how to say \alarm .. clock\ and you left your Larousse in the States. If that isn't bad enough, you're reduced to watching Starsky and Hutch on the TV. But please, don't get me wrong for the next 8% ·weeks, you'll he having the time of your life. The average weekday can be broken down into the four essential parts : class, spending time with your friends, drinking wine. eating, and sleeping. Heavy emphasis should be put on the latter three. Although you spend an inordinate amount of time in class compared to Union, this serves two excellent purposes: you LEARN French (which is why we're there, right?) and, with some careful and cunning exploitation of the professorial conscience, you can pretty much sleaze by with little homework (which is also why we're there, right?). The three classes are divided as follows: civilization, which is somewhat equivalent to an advanced social studies course· language {repetez, re,petez' repetez).; and Literature, wher~ we had the pleasure of seeing the always ebullient Prof. Helen McDermott; who doubles as term mother, and who triples as term psychiatrist. The most outstanding part of the fall term in Rennes are the extracurricular activities, These run the gamut from white , wine, to Ricard (a very popular Pastis), to your standard \pression which is often Heineken . on tap. Then stop at any one of 18, yes, I counted 18 patisseries (pastry shops) o~ your way home. And what does HOME mean? It means Gilles, or Beatrice, or whatever . your French \ and-or ''sisters\ are called. Then Mom comes home, Dad comes home; and we watch corny French game shows on TV. After that, there · is the French version of dinner; i.e., more wine. Dinner was always really good, except for the Saturday Pop and Arnoud fried up the four baby pheasant they had nailed that afternoon. Welcome to France. Weekday nights can best be spent in your sleeping bag,. under: three or four blankets, getting a solid 10 hours sleep, which you need, because before you know it, it's Friday, and Friday means ROAD TRIP! Rennes is in excellent proximity to the English Channel, which is graced by Mont St. Michel, St. Malo, and the Channel Islands. Rennes is close to the castle at Fougeres, to the chateaQs of the Loire Valley, and relatively close to the~ Cathedral at Chartres. Perhaps at that point only the streets looked strange, but on walking into our respective homes, we realized all too soon that also the language would be a hindrance. But then again, learning Italian and conversing with the people was a big part of the challenge of the term. Although our vocabularies were very limited that first day, we probably all managed to make our families understand that we were extremely tired and hungry. Unexpected Memories And Rennes is a quick three hours from Paris, a city with all the charming decadence of a Venice, the culture of a New York, and the history of a London. France is a lot more than just memories. It gives you things, intangible things, that you will carry with you forever. An appreciation of America. The development of your ability to be self-sufficient, to survive, alone, in .. a totally different atmosphere than the one you've been living through for 20 years. We took a normal Union three course load consisting of a language, a civilization class and an art history course. The first two were taught by Italians and the latter was taught by Prof. James McCord, the term'- s faculty adviser. We ·felt that the language course was not as intense as it should have been to enable us to become fluent. We're working to get that rectified before next fall. Although the civilization class tended to be overly lengthy and failed to hold our attention all of the time, by November we could appreciate the history of the Italian political system. Despite the fact that these two courses were lacking, Prof. McCord's art history class more than made up for that deficit. Where else could you learn about the Michelangelo \David\ while standing right . before the sculpture? Or, for that matter, about works by Giotto, Leonardo, Raphael, Titian? Prof. McCord's infinite knowledge with us, made the course an exceptional ex- perience in itself. To be able to view all the great works of art which Italy has to offer, we had to travel out of Florence as well. On five separate weekends, the McCords carefully planned all inclusive trips to other parts of Italy. We had three-day trips to Siena, Pisa, and Assisi. We had By DAN RYAN With PAUL GROSSMAN When I arrived in ~ath, England, I had expectations of what the next three months would be like. Almost im- mediately though, things started happening that I didn't expect. I expected to see Bath Abbey and the famous Pump Room. I didn't expect to be broke the night before the program started and have to spend the night on a bench between the Abbey and' the Pump Room. The next day wl)en we met the families that we were to spend the next three months with, I expected an older, conservative family. I was right about that. What l didn't expect was the amount of kindness they showed my roommate and I. A delicious home-cooked meal made up for the cold, hard bench that had been my introduction to Bath. As the term went on,, I was surprised at how easy it was to live with parents that I had never met before. I didn't have a monopoly on surprises. for the group, though. We were all surprised at how soon we were caught up in the life of the University. Almost immediately, there were Union students swimmipg, lifting weights, playing basketball and rugby, and even making pottery with the British students. Of course, the most popular ac- tivity was putting down pint after pint of that English ale. The Beehive and the Huntsman Cellar Bar, as well as various other Bath pubs, too numerous to mention here, provided the opportunity to meet many Andy Capp-type characters. I shouldn't give_ the im- pression that every night was spent bending elbows in the pubs, although we did visit them as often as possible. There were also three courses to -study for, and I sure didn't expect to be in the library as much as I was. Everyone in the gmup took \Science and Imagination\ and \Social Political, and Economic Trends in Britain Today\. \Science and Imagination\ covered the developments in scientific and philosophical though from Copernicus to Darwin. Prof. Jan Ludwig gave llS more carbon copied articles than I could carry' much less read. Our \Trends\ course was a· series of visiting lecturers who spoke about everyt:hing from how economists are more trustworthy than politicians to a confusing explanation of why. British public schools are ac- tually private schools. Basically, it helped us un- derstand the BBC Nine O'Clock News every night. Half of the group took a course called ''Architecture of Bath and Bristol,\ which taught them everything they ever wanted to know about railway stations. The other half of the group took a course on Jane Austen and Thomas Hardy. I personally found the course exciting and the teacher stimulating, but that's a long story. Suffice it to say that everyone had their fair share of work to do. Because of a great series of Monday trips, we got to see much of the area sturounding Bath. Salisbury, Stratford-on- Avon, Oxford, Stonehenge, Dorset, and many other places were stops that Bob's Coach made. All of the trips were memorable, but the highlights were seeing Hamlet in Shakespeare's hometown, singing rude rugby songs late one :flight on the way home, and a weekend trip to London that defies description. The term, was better than any 'of us expected. Thanks for the great times should go the Prof. Ludwig and his family, the unimaginable Mr. Humphreys, and everyone else involved in making the term available. to Union students. lf anyone is at all interested -in taking a term abroad, this one definitely has one of the easiest language requirements. Interesting (?) work, fun natives, and pubs that live up to their tradition make the England term abroad a special and memorable experience. And you haven't lived until you've tried \Scrimpy.\ It's that special single sense of accomplishment I get when I can talk to a wandering French- · man in New York, or translate the menu at the Brasserie. It's wishing I were the greatest soccer player in the world, better than Mario Kempes, or Michel Platini, or my 11-year old French \brother.\ France is looking Amy or Rachel or any one of 13 others straight in the eye, and knowing there is a common bond bet- ween us that no one, no distance, no time zone, can ever destroy. It's also knowing that we have something no one els.e can ever share - until you do tt yourself. If you want to go away. and study with Union Terms Abroad in England, France or Italy, fall term--Israel, Greece or Spain, winter term--Austria, spring term--or Socialized Medicine in Three Countries during summer term ... Plan to attend the only complete information meeting for all 1981-82 terms: Thursday, February 5 4:30p.m. S.S.Ol6 b a1 Sl p: f< R a1 fc If U: a: u t~ tr tE S< St dl aJ tr ft li; u n rl F D tt S' ii n: pl

as is to an where seeing Helen as pies as part of the vHies, white . often at 18, on ice, or are home, watch on the i.e., ways the fried they be bag,. nkets, sleep, before and is el, St. at of the at three ith all of a New of a more you that sense I · It's test or -year or Wing bet· no that else do it OONOOBDIENSISJ January 2.~, 1981 Renovation Continues .By A. J. BRODSKY Union College is indeed buHding a multi-purpose athletic field. In response to several rumors that the proposed field will only be used .for rntercollegiate football, Richard S. Sakala, director -of athletics here, said the 207 x 375 foot Astroturf ,field and the 400- Hleter Resolite track will be used for all sports, intramural as well as intercollegiate. When speaking of sports at Union, Sakala said, \We're talking about active in- tramurals plus an active in- tercollegiate program.\ According to Sakala, the ultimate aim \is to take heavy usage off Library Field and to return it to a greens, com- mons-type situatimi.\ Presently, he noted, this field is both an eyesore and a danger to both athletes and spectators. The only flaw that can be seen in these renovations is the use of the old bleachers, which are in deplorable disrepair. As Sakala hopes, \maybe we can find a generous alumnus.\ The next major athletic building project that will be undertaken is the renovation of the indoor facilities. Union, in the future, wm face stiff competition in terms of ad• Eighties.\ He also suggested that after the conclusion of the .present endowment campaign, a \brick and mortar\ driv-e could be initiated for construction of .further athletic facilities. Included in this step of funding could be the movement of U Coll baseball, if not back on campus, back to Union CoHege property. A possible site could be the Girling Center about two miles off campus. - ..c. .!!?l I... ~ Page 5_ This outdoor development, scheduled .for completion in September, · has been on the drawing board for about three- and-a-half years. Most recently, the college trustees approved funds to be used for all new lights to surround the field but the old bleachers will remain in use. .. missions. As an \arm o! ad- missions,'' Sakala said it is imperative for the AthleUc Department to face this problem. He adds, \We're not talking principally in- tercollegiate--just physical activity that will be carried over .for a lifetime.\ The administration, trustees, an.d the Athletic Department must now consider this matter. It is not a new one. As Sakala concluded, \I am proud of this accomplishment, but so many people have been involved, people that have been here longer than I.\ Union footbaH looks forward to new facilities Nation~s Colleges and Universities: The next phase of the outdoor renovation will be the rep<:~sitioning of Alexander Field plus the remainder of Daley Field into a new natural turf field. The p(esent lighting system will be used to illuminate this playing area for nighttime intramurals and practices. Possible projects include an addition to Alumni Gym that could include 10 to 12 racquetball courts, a new .swimming pool, weight rooms, saunas, studios for dance and martial arts, and more locker rooms, particularly for women. Sakala's own opinion is \that we have to face the problem and see it happen by the middle Where the Boys Are THE INCREDIB,LE SHRINKING . WOMAN (CPS)-In a reversal of recent trends and in defiance of almost all predictions, white males again have taken over as the majority of entering college students, according to Andrew Pepin of the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES). LILY TOMLIN· CHARLES GRODIN NED BEATTY· A LIJA Production \THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING WOMAN\ Written by JANE WAGNER · Music by SUZANNE CIANI · Producecj by HANK MOONJEAN E<ecutove Producer JANE WAGNER · Directed by jOEL SCHUMACHER· A UNIVERSAL PICTURE Read the JOVE aook · Copyright (<) 1980 by Universal City Studios, Inc ~G.:=~~m:'!~;!rm.o NOW PLAYING AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU Hot & Cold Sandwiches Salads Char-Broiled Burgers . . . Invites Union College & Friends During the 1979-30 academic year, women for the first time comprised more than 50 percent of the American student population. While women are still in the majority, men are now apparently catching up. \Part-time students, in .ad- dition to full-time minorities and women, were the facts that really kept the enrolhnent of the last decade up there,\ Pepin says, ''but now the men are the major factor.\ Statistics from the American Association of State Colleges and Universit!es (AASCU) confirm that the male student population has grown by 10.6 percent in the last acaderrrlc year, while the female increase has been 8.5 percent. At Union, which became coeducational in 1970, about 40 percent of the freshman class is female. The percentage of women in the Class of 1984 is the highest since the College began admitting females. Because some subjects of study offered here, most notably in the engineering department, have historically attracted few females, the admissions office does not foresee a further equalization of the ratio. Predictions made five years ago by almost every education observer, including the NCES, suggested that colleg-e enrollments in general womlld start a decade-long slide in 1980, . but schools instead are finding themselves with an average enrollment increase of 3.2 percent. While Union's enrollment has remained stable, its applicant pool has OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK! Pizza & Sandwiches to go Draft Beer Mixed Drinks & Wine Featuring $1.99 Dinners Luncheon Specials Daily -------- ... ------------------- --·---- -------------- ----·-- --------- (good any time) 50 1/li oH our famous Stromboli .., Our Stromboli consists of Cheese & Peppers rolled in our special dough & cooked in our ovens! 547 Nott Street (Across fro,m Beta House) 382-9066 grown to record le'1{els. Pepin adds that the inac- curacy of the predictions was due not to miscalculation, but to an inability to foresee the drastic effect of the economy on enrollment. Pepin himself anticipated a drop in college enrollment proportionate to the drop in the number of high school graduates, but his formula, which proved dependable in the seventies, is too simplistic now because of monetary factors, he admits. \The tight job market in- fluences the immediate futures of high school graduates most profoundly,\ he explains. \An 18-year-old-man or woman will often decide to go to school full time when they cannot find a job in order to put off the job hunt until the market opens up.\ Additionally, he says, many young people find it more and more necessary to have better training in order to get a job at all.\ Judith Stich, of the American Council on Edacation, · at- tributes the, jump in the num- bers of male students to new campus r.ecruiting. New methods have resulted in an older student population. Stich says that half the nation's college students this year are over the \traditional college ages\ of 18 to 22. She also holds the economic situation responsible for the new trend . \It you're out of a job, then you're not giving up anything to go to school,\ she says. In light of how wrong most enrollment projections have been, Pepin says, it is \im- possible\ to tell what direction future trends will go. Stich says schools can compensate for the loss of 18-22year-old students if they \recruit effectively\ in the \non-traditional\ areas, but she said she'd make no predictions. \We're all just going to have to wait and see. These predictions are becoming a dangerous business,'' says Bob · Stamp en of the AASCU. SELL OUT SALE: 1980 Homecoming T-shirts are on sale for $1 in the Alwnni Office at Lamont House. All sizes are available, but supplies are limited. At this ridiculously low price, they're bound to go fast. So get yours today, while they last! F'or further infornnation, contact Karen Wytrwal in the Alumni Office at 370-6168. The French Lunch Table will meet this and every Tuesday in the Pub at 12:30. Drop by and have a glass of wine, and practice your French. All levels of proficiency are welcome.

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS~ January S9~ 1981 arts culture About 'Working' The Union Arts Departmen.t will open its winter theatrical season with a production of Working, a musical based on the best selling bookof the same name by Studs Terkel. The ·show opens Friday, Feb. 20, in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Performances will be at 8 p.m. February 20 to 22 and February 24 to March 1. A 3 p.m. matinee will be held Sunday, Feb. 22. Tom Farrell and Felicia Salva cion doing it up at Cabaret Terkel's book, the full title of which is Working: People Talk About What They Do AU Day and How They Feel About What They Do, is a celebration of the - working person. From the parking lot attendant tt> the corporate executive, Terkel asked men and women across America how they feel about their work. Their answers- sometimes funny, sometimes A Cozy Cabaret By GILLE ANN RABBIN Last Thursday night may have been a freezing one out- doors, but inside cozy Cabaret, everyone was warm as toast. The second Cabaret of Winter Term starred Debbie Poletto and Beth Baumgarten and Felicia Salvacion and Tom Farrell. As usual, everyone had a great time. Those SDT sisters, Beth and Debbie, were at it for a second time this year last Thursday night. As Cabaret's first act, they warmed all of us up with their music. Both played the guitar and sang beautifully. Their harmonization was especially impressive and very interesting. The highlights of this act were the performances of two touching original songs which were written by Beth. Keep on singing, Beth and Debbie. Here's to next term's Cabaret! The second act consisted of Felicia and Tom. Among the songs they performed were \Teach Your Children\ and \City of New Orleans.\ And, of course, there was their own rendition of Bobby Sherman's \Easy Come, Easy Go,\ which conjured up memories of long ago. Especially impressive was the amount of improvement in Felicia's poise and self con- fidence from her last ap- pearance. Keep it 11p Felicia- Bravo! Both Felicia and Tom were terrific, and members of their fan club can see them perform in \Working\, this term's theater pmduction. Dare I forget Demetra Pontisakos, the evening's emcee? Not on your life. Deme left me \sans parole,\ as we say in French. Her attempts at haute couture, however, were somewhat thwarted by Tom the Rude, Cabaret's trusty lighting person who did a nice job with the lights, but got a little carried away with his power, rudely shutting down the sound system and Ughting at the highlights of Deme's performance. Hey, Deme, we look forward to your starring in a Cabaret later this term, on Feb. 12. Cabaret was delightful last Thursday night. Special thanks to the kitchen folk, Helen and Dana et al who helped to make Cabaret the charming event it always proves to be. However, I refuse to believe that peanuts, Cabaret's trademark, have come and gone. Little pretzels, as munchy and crunchy as they may be, will never fill the emptiness in my heart , which has beeri left by the dearth of peanuts. SUPPORT YOUR LOCAL CABARET! Thursday evenings, 2 shows: 9 and 11. Tickets on sale at 8 p.m. in Carnegie 10. 1981 Film and Tour Program Commissioner John C. Egan has announced a series of films and educational tours at the Empire State Plaza entitled 1981 ART AT THE PLAZA. For four months, starting February 3rd and running through May 26th, hour long films about art and as art will be shown every Tuesday beginning promptly at 12:10 in the Recital Hall of the Per- forming Arts Center (the Egg). The films are free, and viewers are invited to bring lunch. Following each film program Curatorial Services will offer a guided tour of th~ Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza Art Collection. The film series is designed to acquaint people with the Plaza Collection and with the ideas and trends of twentieth century art. During February the series explores the influence of early twentieth century art movements such as surrealism and cubism. The March films focus on painters such as Helen Frankenthaler, Morris Louis and Kenneth Noland. In April the series examinEs sculptors including Claes Oldenburg and Alexander Calder. The series will conclude in May with an investigation of current art trends including performance, film, video and other non- traditional media. Entertaining and thought-provoking animated shorts by well-known fihnmakers will be included throughout the series. The tours of the Plaza Collection following the Tuesday film programs will be given by Janice Fontanella, Assistant Curator. In addition, regularly scheduled one hour art tours for ·individuals will begin in front of the Visitor Services Office on the Con- Continued ·on page 7 MoU.t 1115 BARRETT ST. '9~~ SCHENECTADY PHONE 377-2642 or 387-8684 Homestyle Italian Cooking Salad Bar Included with All Pasta & AIJ Dinners Reasonable prices Plus a 1 0% Discount to Union College Students with IDs Banquet Foci lities sad, but always candid-are the basis of both the book and the play. Working, Terkel says, is about \a search for daily meaning as well as daily bread, for recognition 'as well as cash, for astonishment rather than torpor; in short, for a life rather than a Monday through Friday sort of dying.\ Union's pnduction of Working will be directed and choreographed by Tom Briggs of New York City. Winner of the Joseph Jefferson Award for his choreography of a Chicago production of West Side Story, Briggs directed a highly ac- claimed production of The Robber Bridegroom at Union in 1979. He has been affiliated with the Eugene O'Neill Center, the Kennedy Center, and the American Conservatory Theatre. · Briggs says of the show, \We have put together an ex- ceptional cast spanning three generations. These 17 per- formers must relate the ex- traordinary dreams of ordinary people through song and dance in addition to acting. The scenic and lighting devices being in- corporated into our production of Working are quite demanding as well. · \I am very lucky that the pool of talent here at Union is ;broad enough to meet these very special needs,\ Briggs said. Set -design for the production is.under the direction of Charles N. Steckler, associate professor of the arts at Union, and technical direction and lighting design is by Daro Beninati, also of Union. The show's music, which will be under the direction of area musical director Corine Salon, includes works by a nwnber of contemporary artists, including Stephen Schwartz (Godspell) and James Taylor. Seven musicians and six vocalists will accompany the 18 musical numbers within the show. For more information about Working, contact the Nott box office at 370-6153. Box office hours beginning Feb. 4 will be 1 to 8 p.m. daily. THURSDAY, JANAURY 29 Sf!ows at 9:00 p.m. and 11 :00 p.m 1st Act: ERIC RUBEN 2nd Act: DANI RAPHAEL and friends Tickets on sale at Carnegie 8:00 Mail Order Warehouse Sale 10°/o TO 50°/o. SAVINGS High Quality Outdoor Gear &. Clothing - L ' . . ' ''Lb Neil 11 recenj Doves agree music of a 1i' matcl attern tbe p: band! recor The l Hunte WarrE come LivE it. Th! It is j tbe ~ forma albUDJ the de the ex well a Crowe ticipaj l>etwe· with tl anon- make! ferent But, live secon( spontf fectiv1 few U send 1 many listeni getbi! guitar I I I ~ I I I I

CONOORDIENSIS, January fS, 1981 Page 1 arts Live J\tlusic on a Record? ByB0BFOX \Live music is better\ claims Neil Young in a song on his most rece11t album, \Hawks and Doves.'' Most people would agree, I am sure, that live music is better. The excitement ()fa live performance .ts hard to match, but there are numerous attempts being made. Within the past year, several major bands have released live recordings; Fleetwood Mac, The Kinks, The Eagles, Ian Hunter, Supertamp, Heart and Warren Zevon are names that come to mind. For .the most part though live albums are severely lacking something, I am not sure what. They do not deliver what they promise: live music. Maybe I am being unfair. relatively new innovation that more bands will surely take advantage of. The new Supertramp album, recorded in Paris, has between song chatter, much of it in French, that is quite enjoyable. Bootleg Springsteen concert tapes, largely because of primitive recording methods, reproduce more Gf what a concert is about: excitement, chaos, im- perfection, spontaneous music, and lots and lots .of noiSe. If you are not interested in all the · paBdemonium, and you would rather have the clear, well-recorded music, what are you buying a live album for? Personally, I would take tickets to a concert over a live album any day. At Smythe: culture The Union College Social Committee and WRUC' Present: The First Annual Pre-Lincoln's Birthday Party!! Saturday, January 31 in the Alumni Gym Starting at 9:00 p.rn. Featuring BLOTTOUJ Also featuring 25c Drafts, popcorn, pretzels, and a WRUC Record Hop, and much, much more!!! Admission 2.00 advance, 3.00 at door Live recording. Think about it. The words are contradictory. It is impossible to capture all the aspects of a live per- formance on a r.ecord. Live albums are only successful to the degree that they reproduce the excitement of a concert, as wen as reproducing the music. Crowd reactions, crowd par- ticipation, and the musician's l>etween song comments, along with the inherent spontaneity of a non-studio recording are what makes a live recording dif- ferent. Maybe not though. Should the sound quality on a live recor- ding match that of a studio recording? Sure we can do it technically, but what is the point of overdubbing to get rid of background noises? Tl:le noises are present at the con~ cert, and should not a live album reproduce a concert? Perfect sound quality throughout a song, then scat- tered cheers at the end .sounds terribly artificial. People tell me the Roxy Theater is a small place, but the crowd on Warren ·zevon' s new live album sounds like a group of librarians. I much prefer older live recor- dings where the technical sophistication was not equal to present standards. The recordings of Woodstock for instance, give one a certain sense of the audience. Many live albums today utilize a laugh- track type cheering audience at the end of every song. It can really bother a person. The Holiday Complete • 1.5 Dear Mom, Camp is fun. I live in Smythe. But, I have a problem with live recordings; after the second or third playing, the spontaneity is no longer ef- fective. Granted, there are a few live recordings which still send chills up my spine after many playings. I never tire of listening to Neil say, \When I get big I'm gonna get an electric guitar ... when I get real big.\ It is not good to generalize. There are many bands which release excellent live albums which never tire the listener. The Kinks maintain that brutal hard <!riving sound charac- teristic of their concerts, along with inspiring audience response on the soft numbers. The Kinks also released a video disc with the album. This is one I have many friends. We learned how to mix: concrete. That was real fun. John and Larry cooked. That was not real fun. Rich lost at football again. We have milk in our bathroom. We play cards. I'm not very good. Joe is worser than me. Kim came to dinner. Kim is Chinese. Sally and Stacey cooked How to eat steak without floating a loan from your roommate. If you thought your budget wouldn't stretch to a steak dinner \Nith all the trimmings, including All-You-Can- Eat Salad, or even a satisfying sandwich, we've got good ne..vs for you. Namel~ the four coupons below. . Each of which guarantees you one big, tasty meal at a price you can afford. So clip this ad, and head for Ponderosa tonight. And eat steak, without borro\Ning bread. - CUT OUT THIS COUPON - - CUT OUT THIS COUPON - Save $1 on any Save $1 on any I Ema-Cut Ribeye Steak I Super Sirloin Steak ENnner rMnner I V Includes baked potato or French fries, I Includes baked potato or French fries, Ali-You-Can•Eat Salad Bar, and warm roll. AII.You-Can-EatSalad Bar, and warm roll. I f.JqJUes Felnmuy 28,1981 I EqJires FebruaJy 28. 1981 One coupon per customer. Cannot be used with any One coupon per custom.e~~ Ca.nnot be used with any I I I th rdiscounts. At partiCipating Steakhouses. . . Totherdlsc?unts. At partiCipating Steakhouses Applicable taxes not included. only. Apphcable taxes not mcluded. - CUT OUT THIS COUPON - . - CUT OUT THIS COUPON - I Save $1 on any Save $1 on any Regular_Cut Prime Rib I T-Bone Steak Dinner :_I I I Prime !?!~~!~d from 4 pm Includes baked potato or French fries, I on Mondaythru Saturday and ali-day Sunday. 1 All-You-Can-Eat Salad Bar, and warm roll. Includes baked potato or French fries, All-You· Can-Eat Salad Bar, and warm roll. I Expiftsfebmaly28.1981 I ElrpiresFebrualy28.1981 One coupon per customer. Cannot be ~d with any One coupon per customer. Cannot be used with any other discounts. At partidpating Steakhouses other discounts. At participating Steukhouses only. Applicable taxes not included. only. App1icabl1? taxes not included. I --··--- 251 Saratoga Road, Scotia (Across from Mayfair Shopping Center) 1650 Eastern Parkway, Schenectady (Corner of McLellan St. & Eastern Parkway iiiiiiiiiiiiililiiiiiiiil I I I Greek Moose Sockies for din- ner. It was good. Sally and Stacey are good cooks. They cook n1ud pies, too. We had a party. Some guy came. He sang a song called Old Angs Sign. Someone threw up in the bathtub. It wasn't Pam. She went to bed early. Bob and Mary cooked salad for dinner. Salad takes a long time to cook. Karen got sick. Tony made her better. We went on a scavenger hunt. We looked for Ephraim. Felicia found him. Eileen came to visit. We miSs her. She laughs funny. Matt has hair on his face. Bob doesn't. Will wanted a missal toe. L:orin wouldn't buy him one. Will went to bed early. Debbie bent her hair. Pete won football. Rich wasn't happy. Rich is Puerto Rican. Lorin is nice. She buys us graham crackers .and beer. Les plays music with his head and a bowl. Colleen and Donna went skiing with boys!! Yuck!! The boys in the next cabin aren't potty-trained yet. I like camp. Can I come back next year? Luv, Little Eustas Film and Tour Continued from page 6 course every Wednesday, at 10:30 and 2:30 starting on February 4. Special tours can be arranged for groups by calling Curatorial Services at 473-7521. In 1978 the Office of General Services contracted with the Albany Institute of History and Art and established the Curatorial Services Office to advise them on the care and promotion of the art collection. The film pro-gram and educational art tours are part of the ongoing endeavors of the Curatorial Services to promote this valuable cultural resource owned by the people of the State of New York. A lecture series given by artists whose works are in the collection is planned for the spring- Refer to the \Area Calendar\ for weekly film schedules! Happy Birthday, Donna Gl February 3, 1981 Love, your roomies and a few Smytllies Jazz Coffeehouse!!! This Friday, January 30th at 8:30 p.m. in the Cabaret Room, singer Dol01res Manusco will perform! Admission $ 1.00 at the door Coffee, tea and fresh doughnuts will be served! Any questions? Call Diane or Tammy at 382-93B3 .. /'.

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS~ January 29., 1981 ures Opinion: Find Female Faculty By CAROLYN HORTZBERG Last year, Union College Professor Schadler~ Union's first Affirmative Action officer celebrated a:n important ten-year anniversary. It had been exactly one decade since the decision to admit women, and thus to change the college from an all-male institution to a coed one. Most students now have a hard time imagining the school ever not being coed, especially because year after year the male-fema,le ratio comes closer and closer to being one to one. But in at least one way and probably more, ten years is not long enough to change all remaining vestiges of a Snuff Sniffers Strike Snuff is starting to show up on campus. At the Pub, at a hockey game, even in the hall between classes, people are starting to try a pinch. Although snuff dates back to the 17th century, most people's first exposure to nasal nirvana is when someone offers him or her a small tin of brown powder. The questions naturally start flying. How do you take it? What is it made of? Why take it? To answer the question of how to take it, I refer the reader to A. Steinmetz, who, in 1857, wrote: \The true artistic method of 'taking a pinch' consists of twelve Ol>e~ations: 1. Take the Snuff-box with your right hand. 2. Pass the Snuff-box to your left hand. ·3. Rap the Snuff-box. 4. Open the Snuff-box. 5. Present the box to the com- pany. 6. Receive it after going the round. 7. Gather up the Snuff in the box by strjking the side with the middle and forefinger. 8. Take a pinch with the right hand. 9. Keep the Snuff a moment or two between the fingers before carrying it to the nose. 10. Put the Snuff to your nose. 11. Sniff it in with precision by both nostrils, and without any grimace. 12. Close the Snuff-box with a flourish. Beginners often find it easier to make a fist and place a small amount between the wrist and the thtunb on the top of the fist. Then, closing one nostril, they sniff it up the other, repeating the procedure for the other nostril. Both methods are ac- ceptable, although the first is preferred in polite company. Snuff is composed of finely ground tobacco, often with menthol, eucalyptus, or other flavors added. Much of the snuff showing up on campus is mentholated, and, besides being very good stuff, it is rumored to be able to cure the common cold. Finally, we come to the question of why people take snuff. It seems that every snuff- taker has his or her own reason. Among the many good reasons is the fact that it clears the head and stimulates the mind. Combined with a pitcher of Budweiser, it provides a sen- Delta Gamma Band Party Friday, at DG sation that must be savored to be believed. Another good reason to partake of snuff is the fact that it is a very sociable thing to do. Instead of asking somebody, \What's your major?\ offer them a pinch of snuff. You may easily end up being friends for life. But, without a doubt, the best reason (or taking snuff is the fact that it makes the world smell good. As one anonymous poet wrote: ''Till man had all he could enjoy, He had not joys enough; Nor fully could each sense employ, Till Fortune gave him Snuff.\ The next time someone offers you a pinch of snuff, give it a try. You may have, a§ one first- timer described the experience, \an olfactory orgasm.\ Kappa Sigma. The Sound Company Friday, Alumni Gym WRUC I Social Committee Featuring BLOTTO Saturday, Alumni· Gym Call' llays Evenings & Weekends CLASSES BEGIN 1 /25 Educational Center TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 (518) 439-8146 Albany Center 163 Delaware Ave Delmar, N.Y. 12054 For Information About Other Centers In More Than 80 Major US Cities & Abroad Outside NY State CALL TOLL FlEE: 800-223-1782 traditionally aH male college. One problem still facing Union in its attempt to .provide liberal arts oriented coed education deals with the number of women in the faculty of the ·college. The figures are extremely disturbing. The teaching faculty is so predominately male that it is useless to even consider computing a male to female ratio. There are 17 women listed in the 1980-1981 catalog who are members of the teaching faculty. Even more alarming is the fact that even this low a number is actuaHy misleading, since many of the women have specifically received temporary appointments (appointments which are not tenure tracked.) 60 per cent of the Union Faculty are more or less permanent. 52 per cent are tenured, and the remaining 8 per cent have post- seven year contracts. Of these 60 per cent, eight are women, and four out of these eight are librarians. Thomas· J. D'Andrea,. Vice President for Academic Affairs, expressed much concern over this situation. His major con- cern is that liberal education is being .cheated by the lack of a completely diversified faculty. As he explained, \I feel that a quality education is enhanced by a heterogenous faculty.\ He expressed severe concerns about how the present situation affects the student body as a whole. The Vice President seemed to feel that female students might be denied enough \suitable role models,\ but this did not concern him as much as · the effect that the problem could have upon male students, in whom the situation is perhaps more likely to reinforce pre-existing biases. D'Andrea is extremely committed to trying to remedy the situation, although he did seem to feel that right now Union lags behind several other former all male institutions. He cited two major reasons for this lag. First, females are un- derrepresented in higher education throughout the country, and therefore those that do exist are in high demand. However, the Vice President seemed to shy away from using this competition as an excuse. The major problem, he <seemed to believe, is the amount of time needed at Union to change the composition of the faculty. The tenure system here prevents the college from ap- pointing large numbers of new faculty each year. For example, this year there are only three or four new appointments to be made into openings created by retirements, sabbaticals, and other means. However, there are, as D'Andrea pointed out, several \small pockets of progress\ , found in several academic departments, and also in the athletic department and the security force. In addition, recently the college appointed The following appointments to the SAC. Sub-Councils have been made by the Committee on Committees and approved by the Student Forum. Sub-Council on Housing: Claire Burchill '82 and Gary Chadick '83. Sub- Council on Placement and Career Counseling: Nevin Dubin '81, Linda Ziman '82 and Amy Zimmerman '82. Anyone interested in working on the 1985 Record Committee Professor Margaret Schadler to be Union College's. first Affir- mative Action Officer. Her job is to help the school remedy the problem. Dr. Schadler echoed concerns similar to those of Vice President D'Andrea. She plans to approach her job as part of a strong commitment to qualify education at Union. To her, the job is most important because it serves the needs of the student population. Dr. :Schadler hopes that she can help the college actively recruit a more diversified faculty, which naturally not only includes more women but also more minorities. Dr. Scadler expanded upon D'Andrea's reluctance to use the low availability of women and minorities as an excuse for the lack of diveristy in the faculty. She wanted to quickly dispel any number that the school will be seeking faculty members who are less qualified than their peers. As she put it, ''We are committed to recruiting qualified women and minorities rather than saying that they just aren't there.\ The answer to the dilemma of the short supply of women and minorities, she believes, is more active pursuit on the part of the college. Both Dr. Schadler and Vice President D'Andrea remain committed to insuring that any new ap- pointments are acceptable to members of the faculty. The intent of the new recruitment efforts is to find good people who also happen to be women or minorities. Another problem which was echoed by both is the College's inabUity to hold on to such people once they do become a part of the faculty. This has been a major problem in the past, and adds another major aspect to Dr. Schadler's new position as Affirmative Action Officer. She hopes to be able to work with the various depart- ments at creating an at- mosphere where new women and minorities will feel at home and want to stay. By looking to the past, she has established that the problem is more pronounced in relation- ship to new women faculty than to the minorities. D'Andrea agreed with this assessment, and also expressed concern over this problem. Thus the goal of the college is not only to recruit more women and minorities for faculty positions, but also to allow them to become a part of the established Union College Community. Dr. Schadler's appointment begins this June. Both her strong committment and that of Vice President D'Andrea lead one to believe that the situation at Union can and will soon be helped. Time wi:ll tell the an~ swer, and hopefully this matter will continue to be a concern until the point is reached where the concern is no longer necessary. please attend an organizational meeting Thurs., Jan. 29 at 3:00 in Con£. Rm. A, Carnegie. If unable to attend, contact Maria Kansas, 6808. There will be a meeting of the Biology Club on WednesdaY, February 4 at 8 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. At this meeting op- portunities for summer jobs in biology-related areas will be discussed. Refreshments will be served. All are invited to attend.

to job the ans a the it pes ich ore for it, to of is to to or as a or to is ea rn to to er of be If he in be be d. CONCORDIENSIS, January 29, 1981 Page 9 Blue Skies Over .Union: ~~ Wrap It -In Red ByD.BOOTH Besides the obvioUs gift of delivering yourself with a red ribbon around your midriff, or a dozen red roses and a fig leaf, there are several. other gifts with particular appeal for' Valentine's Day. Of course the object of. the day is to impress your sweetheart, or your potential sweetheart, with your originality, creativity, suaveness, and general debonair attitude. Whichmeans that the ordinary gifts which any poor slob could give are out of the question. The only satisfactory gifts are ones which are either the real McCoy ( ie. real perfume, carat-size diamonds, etc.) or ones which have a lot of C.B.C. value ( couldp 't be cuter). Perhaps one of ~the most useful gifts is one which can be used, not only after your traditional Valentine's Date, but on every night you care to remember the romance of the evening. Naturally I am speaking of nightthings, such as flannel pajamas, nightshirts, robes, and even wild boxer shorts, as well as tiny stuffed animals and anything with hearts. As far as gifts for men in this department, softness is key, expecially against the skin. Remember as well that softness is a double pleasure, both inside and outside. Thus a fine, soft night ensemble is in order. First come the pajamas. These should be of a solid color rather than wild prints. Even if he doesn't wear pj's to bed, the warmth of flannel will serve to remind him of the special warmth of Valentines. If you would prefer, boxer shorts in wild prints are just as valid a gift. Around this time of year it is quite easy to find boxers with. tiny red hearts printed all over. The final coup de grace is the robe. My suggestion is to purchase dark colors em- phasizing a heavy masculine virility - for example, black, 464 State St. we deliver . dark brown, and tespeciaUy a deep wine coloration. It is, however, important to match the gift to the guy. If he is of the wild and crazy set he may prefer a satin dragon robe. A deep purple robe from the far east with a large dragon on the back can be quite attractive on the right person. Carefully wrapped inside the collar of this robe should be a stuffed animal. Tiny . pink hippopotami (remembering, of course, that pink hippopotami. are the :males and have a tendency to eat purple lollipops) are ·ideal. Rhinoceri and elephants are also available. Gifts of this nature for women may, among some- of you, conjure up ideas of black lace or satin flimsy lingerie, but I suggest a nightshirt instead. It can be either button down or pullover. A more personal nightshirt, like an older button down of his (naturally too big for her) or a fraternity sweatshirt (.also oversized) is also valid. It shoulcl. also come with a stuffed animal in its collar, again remembering that blue hippopotami are the females. The stuffed animal is important because it gives your partner something warm and cuddly to snuggle with when you're not around. The more usual gift of flowers should also be employed. When you go to deliver your gift go with a rose in your teeth. There is something called the Language of Flowers which is designed to tell the meaning of each type of flower. According to this language, it is the red rose which means love, while the pink rose means friendship, and the white rose refusal. Myrtle, lemon blossoms, and linden branches also mean love; however, since one does not have to be ruled by this language, there are several attractive flowers which are nice to give. Any flower can be obtained if ordered a few days in advance. Hyacinths, of ~ . Schenectady 374-1888 -------------·COUPON·------------.., I I I I I I I I BUY 1 GET 1 V2 PRICE! Open 7 Days a Week Over 20 Submarines & Hot LYLE 1 S Sandwiches H OA G J E s Soda lc~h~~ee~m 460 State Street Let US Prepare Your Dinner, Snack, Brunch or Your Munchies Soup (near Sthenectady Savings Bank) Expires 2-5-81 l·------------ ·coUPON·------------ purple, white, and blue, have a beautiful odor, as does the lily- of-the-valley, and the purple heliotrope. The daffodil, truly a spring flower, may be available on special order. One of the most special .of the flower gifts is a garland of flowers. A garland is simply a small wreath to be hung around' the neck like a lei or placed in the hair like a crown. Made from the tiny violet, which in- cidentally means faithfulness, these garlands are quite a gift. But if one has not given roses ~ too many times before, they are ; the queen of the Valentines :5 flowers, and I will stick with the e:: old Scotch song which says: .!!? \0 gin my love were yon red ~ ..c rose, u That grows upon the castle >- wa'· ~ ' 0 And I mysel' a drap o' dew, 0 Into her bonnie breast to if fa\' · (Witherspoon's Collection Of Scotch Songs) D. Booth: The expert with C.B.C. \Computer Simulation? It was my take off to a great future.\ Becoming a Unk Engineer has made a big difference in my career. I wanted a challenge And the chance to design something exciting. Link gives me that chance and more. Modem simulation technology was born at our company more than fifty years ago and ever since then, we've been the industry's leader in the design and manuiacturing of aviation and aerospace training devices Our trainers can realistically fly you from New York to LA and Houston to the moon without ever leaving their hangar. Link ' OWISIO~ OF '\' 51 N c E R COMI'AN> Binghamton. New York 13902 Wfire looking for gYaduates with degrees in Engineering (EE, ME, IE) Aero ctnd Computer Engineering. See us on campus or contact A. C. Esworthy- Link Division of Singer, Binghamton, New York (607) 772·3561. Link Simulation is Futwe Enginee:ri.ng Missed Our On Campus Interviews? Send your resume · to A. C. Esworthy, Link Div.ision of Singer Bin~hamton, New York 13902 Equal Opportumty Employor MtF

Page 10 BUlLETIN BOARD IBM BurUngton--2-12-81 recruiting date, 1-30, 11 a.m. signup for CS, EE's, ME's, Chemistry, Physics, Math Majors with a schedule for MBA's-. NYS Dept. of Public Service- 2-13-81 recruiting date. 2-2,10:30 a.m. sign-up for MBA's: Finan_ce, Economics Statistics for Financial Analyst. MTI-2-18-81 recruiting date. 2-5, 1:30 p.m. sign-up for ME's ror (1) Energy Systems Con- trols (2) Performance Engr. (Sterling Div.) Mutual of Omaha--2-19-81 recruiting date. Sign-up 2-9, 9:30 a.m. for any major for Sales Rep. On-the-job training. Connecticut Gen. Life Ins. 2- 24-81 recruiting date. 2-23-81 Orientation Session in Strauss Lounge from 7-9 p.m. 2-11, 3:30 p.m. sign-up for entry level positions in Underwriting, Sales and Claims, Data Processing Trg. Prog., Actuarial Training, Pension Valuation. Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of New York-2-26-81 recruiting date. 2-17, 1:30 p.m. sign-up for all majors for Treasurer's Division. Prudential Ins. Co.-2-27-81 recruiting date. 2-16, 2:30 p.m. sign-up for Math Majors for Actuarial Training Program. Alco Power Inc.--2-27-81 recruiting date. 2-17, 1:30 p.m. sign-up for BS-ME's and IE's for Management Trainee program for Sales & Marketing. Mobil Oil-3-2-81 recruiting date. 2-20, 8:30 a.m. sign-up for ME's for Commercial Mktg. Bendix Corp-3-3 recruiting date. 2-18, 3:30 ·p.m. sign-up for ME's, IE's, Operations Research Majors. Thorn McAn-3-3-81 recruiting date. 2o::.1.6, 2:30p.m. sign-up for any major for Management Training Program. Central Hudson & Gas.-3-4 recruiting date. 2-17, 1:30 p.m. sign-up for EE's for Tran- smission and Distribution. M.E. 's for Engineering (Systems Protection Produc- tion) Photo Circuits-3-12 recruiting date. 2-16, 1: 15 p.m. sign-up. Check Placement for further information. Calif. Dept. of Tran- sportation-3-10-81 recruiting interview cancelled. Sysco-3-31 recruiting date. 3- 4, 1:30 p.m. sign-up for MBA's, Eco., Bus. Admin., Math for Sales and Marketing. Juniors needed who are willing to serve on Commencement Committee which plans, organizes and carries out Commencement activities. Students are expected to serve in their Senior year also. Please submit a brief letter of interest with qualifications and background to Cathy Johnson, Chairperson of the Committee on Committees, Box 888 (370- 6914). Two students will be selected by the Committee and their names will be submitted to Dr. D'Andrea, Vice President for Academic Affairs. Please apply by Monday, February 2nd. PARENTS WEEKEND Coming Soon Check future issues of Concordy for details. German Lunch Table every Thursday 12:30 in the Pub. Tues., Feb. 24, 1!)81, Mr. Baer, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation will conduct a state-wide examination for Junior OONOORDIEN8IS, Jan'U(J_ry 29, 1981 , , c·~sst te Engineers in Humanities 016 from 4:30 p.m.-10 p.m. For further information contact Mr. Baer a.t 457-6\610. If you are interested stop by the Placement Office and let us know. U.S. Department of Labor would like to meet and talk with students interestdd in seeking employment with U.S. Dept. of Labor's Wage and Hour Division as a Compliance· 'Officer. If you are interested, stop by Placement. We have information available in the office. We will soon be receiving applications for the PACE Exam. Summer Employment Brookhaven National Lab Summer Employment Opportunities San Francisco Corps of Engineers Saratoga-Capital District State Park & Recreation · FIT..M January 29-31-\Knife in the Head\ a recent political mystery thriller from Ger- many, is the next acclaimed feature in the SUNY A Prize International Cinema Series and it will be shown at 8:30 p.m .. in the Recital Hall of the Per- forming Arts Center, SUNY Uptown Campus in Albany. For more information, call457-8606. February 2--Russell Sage College presents the film \Kramer vs. Kramer,\ with Dustin Hoffman and Meryl Streep, at 7 and 9:30p.m. at the Schacht Fine Arts Center. For more information, call2.79-2344. February 3--The Junior College of Albany will present the film, \All That Jazz\ at the Student Center at 11: 15 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. For more in- formation, call 270-2344. February 3 & 8--\The Autobiography .of Miss Jane Pittman\ will be shown as the first of a series of films in the Main Library of the Albany Public Library, 161 Washington Avenue. It will be shown at 2 and 8 p.m., Feb. 3 and 2 p.m., Feb. 8. For more information, call 449-3380. February 3--The Empire State Plaza will present the films, \Art in Revolution\ and \The Man in the Park\ as part of a series of films about art. The films will be shown at 12:10 p.m. at the Performing Arts Center, Recital Hall. For more information, call473-7521. LECTURE January 30--Stephen Schechter, professor of Government and Public Service at Russell Sage College, will present a lecture entitled \Beginnings: How to Study a Community's Origin.'' The lecture will take place at 10 a.m. For more information, call 270- 2344. February 4-Helen Desfosses, SUNY 1\ Assistant Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of Undergraduate Studi-es, will present a lecture at 12 p.rn. entitled, \The U.S. and the Soviet Union: Dilemmas of Power and Peace.\ For more information, call 449-3380. MUSIC January 30-February 1-- Spider John Koerner, the near- legendary folk hero of the early sixties, will be performing at the Caffe Lena, 45 Phila Street, Saratoga Springs. For more information, call 584-9789. Commission will employ 65 lifeguards at State beaches and pools. State of New York Dept. of Labor-New York State Job Service at 335 Canada Street, Lake George, will be QPen six days a week during April and May so that it can service students during those months. As of June 1, 1981, it will be open five days a week (Monday · through Fri~ay) from 8: 30 to 4:30p.m. For more information stop by the Placement Office. The staff of the Union Office of Financial Aid will be holding information sessions in each of the residence halls during the next few weeks. Since we are, for the first time, requiring students .. to provide detailed information on our pwn· aid · application, the sessions will be aimed primarily at clearing up any confusion that may result from fi~ling this out. This ~ill THEATER January 31-The Empire State Youth Theater Institute will be holding an audition at 10 a.m. for the two romantic male leads in its upcoming production of Shakespeare's ''A Midsummer Night's Dream.\ For more information, call 474-1199. February. 2-3-Russell Sage College is holding auditions for \Le Bourgeois GentHhomme,\ ·u.s. _Must. . fl P-repare· also be an opportunity, however, to ask any specific or general questions about financial aid that students may have. Students should consult their Head R.A. about the times and locations of these sessions. We will • soon be announcing the details of similar sessions for off~campus and fraternity students. Applications are now available for Federal Summer Internships in Engineering. Contact Pat Matteo at The starting Feb. 4. Both classes will meet in Arts 202. Interested students may sign up for the appropriate class level in the Student Activities Office. Classes will be limited to 20 people, so hurry! Ride needed to Northwestern U.S. (Idaho ·or thereabouts) . after spring term. Please call Tamson Scott 374-9475. Apartment needed for spring · term. Please call Tamson Scott 374·9745. Career Center for information. : Newman Campus Ministry, The Union College Dance Club is offering a 5-week Jazz Workshop with Denise Kap. Both beginning and in- termediate level classes will be given. The beginning class will meet on Tuesdays from 6-7:30 starting Feb._ 3. The in- termediate class will be held on Wednesdays from 6-7:30 a classic Moliere· comedy directed by Richard Jones. The auditions will be held in the James L. Meade Little Theater. For more information, call 270- 2344. February 4-6--Skidmore, Theater will hold auditions from 7-11 p.m. for Isaac -Inger's \Yentl which opens April 22 through May 2. Twenty roles will be cast. For more in- formation, call 584\5000. ·.\. .. , ..... '; __ •. · .. · . :_: :,,~·~:~: ~~ .: . ' . .. . . : .-~·:-~ ~:.- ·--~ .~:-;.; ... : ........ ·· ':: . ~ ' . . . . .. -- : . . ;- ~ . ' :: . -~- ' . ··:._ ~.: ... ,• . \ . . '' . 0 • • · Feb. 1, Reverend Jay Murnane. Tune in to the all-new Magical . Musical Tour on90.0, WRUC. Al . Goldberg is your cruise-music director on this three hour adventure. Departure time is on Fridays, 2-5 p.m. Hop aboard, it's waiting to take you away. \Sexual Barrassment on the job and what the new legislation means for you,\ will be the topic of a Sunday brunch, Feb. 8 from 11-1 in the Women's Network Room. Bonnie Cohen, from the Center for Women in Government, will be the speaker for the brunch which is being sponsored by · the Women's Commission and the Women's Network. If you are interested in attending, please send your name and address, along with a $1.00 registration fee, to Women's Commission, Box 2569, Union College. FOUND: Male Puppy (German shepherd), tan, black markings on head and tail. Has collar. Any info., call 370-6543. • ·Pull the - . Rug Over To the Editors: Julian Lumen - 5 -- .f 1 By The seas01 the r4 yieldh this r€ or ch< seasor 4 on tt 1-8-1 weeke travel port j Divisi Ironic. could play of The agaim the b Divisi Fabor have c goals, falo's 1 Sawye combii (25 go these would now. : record sensat the te Other have ·~ Carus< thesw assists Both recen1 decim< really Union Dilibe forces, loss of Saturc Burns otherh Clayto1 any b~ the Bu adequ~ Unio Mike 1\ Brooks suppor Chris f1

Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS~ January ~9) 1981 ' I C ~SSl te ' ' ' ' ' '• \ . . · .. ·. _· . ' ' . ' . .- ' . . - . . . . .. . . , :.. . •• ~- , ~ . , . r, , , ·: BUlLETIN BOARD IBM Burlington--2-12-81 recruiting date, 1.:30, 11 a.m. signup for CS, EE's, ME's, Chemistry, Physics, Math Majors with a schedule for MBA's·. NYS Dept. of Public Service- 2-13-81 recruiting date. 2-2, 10:30 a.m. sign-up for MBA's: Finance, Economics Statistics for Financial Analyst. MTI-2-18-81 recruitiBg date. 2-5, 1:30 p.m. sign-up for ME's f~r (1) EBergy Systems Con- trols (2) Performance Engr. (Sterling Div.) Mutual of Omaha--2-19-81 recruiting date. Sign-up2-9, 9:30 a.m. for any major for Sales Rep. On-the-job training. Connecticut Gen. Life Ins. 2- 24-81 recruiting date. 2-23-81 Orientation Session in Strauss Lounge from 7-9 p.m. 2-11, 3:30 p.m. sign-up for entry level positions in Underwriting, Sales and Claims, Data Processing Trg. Prog., Actuarial Training, Pension Valuation. Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of New York-2-26-81 recruiting date. 2-17,1:30 p.m. sign-up for all majors for Treasurer's Division. Prudential Ins. Co.-2-27-81 recruiting date. 2-16, 2:30 p.m. sign-up for Math Majors for Actuarial Training Program. Alco Power Inc .--2-27-81 recruiting date. 2-17, 1:30 p.m. sign-up for BS-ME's and IE's for Management Trainee program for Sales & Marketing. Mobil Oil-3-2-81 recruiting date. 2-20, 8:30 a.m. sign-up for ME's for Commercial Mktg. Engineers in Humanities 016 from 4:30 p.m.-10 p.m~ For further information contact Mr. Baer at 457-6610. If you are interested stop by the Placement Office and let us know. U.S. Department of Labor would like to meet and talk with students interestdd in seeking employment with U.S. Dept. of Labor's Wage and Hour Division as a Compliance ·officer. If you are interested, stop by Placement. We have information available in the office. We will soon be reeeiving applications for the PACE Exam. Summer Employment Brookhaven National Lab Summer Employment Opportunities San Francisco Corps of Engineers Saratoga-Capital District State Park & Recreation FU..M January 29-31-\Knife in the Head\ a recent political mystery thriller from Ger- many, is the next acclaimed feature in the SUNY A Prize International Cinema Series and it will be shown at 8:30p.m. in the Recital Hall of the Per- forming Arts Center, SUNY Uptown Campus in Albany. For more information, call457-8606. Commission will employ 65 lifeguards at State beaches and pools. State of New York Dept. of Labor-New York State Job Service at 335 Canada Street, Lake George, will be o_pen six days a week during April and May so that it can service students during those months. As of June 1, 1981, it will be open five days a week (Monday ·through Friday) from 8:30 to 4:30p.m. For more inJormation stop by the Placement Office. The staff of the Union Office of Financial Aid will be holding information sessions in each of the residence halls during the next few weeks. SiAce we are, for the first time, requiring students . to provide detailed information on our pwn · aid application, the sessions will be aimed primarily at clearing up any confusion that may result from fi~liBg this out. This will THEATER January 31- The Empire State Youth Theater Institute will be holding an audition at 10 a.m. for the two romantic male leads in its upcoming production of Shakespeare's \A Midsummer Night's Dream.\ For more information, call 474-1199. February 2-3-Russell Sage College is holding auditions for \Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme,\ also be an opportunity, however, to ask any specific or general questions about financial aid that s~udents may have. Students should consult their Head R.A. about the times and locations of these sessions. We will . soon be announcing the details of similar sessions for off-campus and fraternity students. Applications are now available for Federal Summer Internships in Engineering. Contact Pat Matteo at The Career Center for information. The Union College Dance Club is offering a 5-week Jazz Workshop with Denise Kap. Both beginning and in- termediate level classes will be given. The beginning class will meet on Tuesdays from 6-7:30 starting Feb .. 3. The in- termediate class will be held on Wednesdays from 6-7:30 a classic Moliere comedy directed by Richard Jones. The auditions will be held in the James L. Meade Little Theater. For more information, call 270- 2344. February 4-6--Skidmore Theater will hold auditions from 7-11 p.m. for Isaac Inger's \Yentl which opens April 22 through May 2. Twenty roles will be cast. For more in- formation, call 584-5000. starting Feb. 4:. Both classes will meet in Arts 202. Interested students may sign up for the appropriate class level in the Student Activities Office. Classes will be limited to 20 people, se hurry! Ride needed to Northwestern U.S. (Idaho or thereabouts) after Spring term. Please call Tamson Scott 374-9475. Apartment needed for spring term. Please call Tamson Scott 374-9745. Newman Campus Ministry, Feb. 1, Reverend Jay MurBane. Tune in to the all-new Magical Musical Tour on 90.0, WRUC. AI Goldberg is yeur cruise-music director on this three hour adventure. Departure time is on Fridays, 2-5 p.m. Hop aboard, it's waiting to take you away. \Sexual Harrassment on the job and what the new legislation means for you,\ will be the topic of a Sunday brunch, Feb. 8 from 11-1 in the Women's Network Room. Bonnie Cohen, from the Center for Women in Government, will be the speaker for the brunch which is being sponsored by the Women's Commission and the Women's Network. If you are interested in attending, please send your name and address, along with a $1.00 registration fee, to Women's Commission, Box 2569, Union College. FOUND: Male Puppy (German shepherd), tan, black markings on head and tail. Has collar. Any info., call 370-6543. Bendix Corp-3-3 recruiting date. 2-18, 3:30p.m. sign-up for ME's, IE's, Operations Research Majors. Thorn McAn-3-3-81 recruiting date. 2._16, 2:30 p.m. sign-up for any major for Management Training Program. Central Hudson & Gas.-3-4 recruiting date. 2-17, 1:30 p.m. sign-up for EE's for Tran- smission and Distribution. M.E. 's for Engineering (Systems Protection Produc- tion) February 2--Russell Sage College presents the film \Kramer vs. Kramer,\ with Dustin Hoffman and Meryl Streep, at 7 and 9:30p.m. at the Schacht Fine Arts Center. For more information, call 2.79-2344. February 3--The Junior College of Albany will present the film, \All That Jazz\ at the Student Center at 11:15 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. For more in- formation, call 270-2344. ........ Letter Photo Circuits-3-12 recruiting date. 2D16, 1:15 p.m. sign-up. Check Placement for further information. Calif. Dept. of Tran- sportation-3-10-81 recruiting interview cancelled. Sysco-3-31 recruiting date. 3- 4, 1:30 p.m. sign-up for MBA's, Eco., Bus. Admin., Math for Sales and Marketing. Juniors needed who are willing to serve on Commencement Committee which plans, organizes and carries out Commencement activities. Students are expected to serve in their Senior year also. Please submit a brief letter of interest with qualifications and background to Cathy Johnson, Chairperson of the Committee on Committees, Box 888 (370- 6914). Two students will be selected by the Committee and their names will be submitted to Dr. D'Andrea, Vice President for Academic Affairs. Please apply by Monday, February 2nd. PARENTS WEEKEND Coming Soon Check future issues of Concordy for details. German Lunch Table every Thursday 12:30 in the Pub. Tues., Feb. 24, 1!:181, Mr. Baer, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation will conduct a state-wide examination for Junior February 3 & 8--\The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman\ will be shown as the first of a series of films in the Main Library of the Albany Public Library, 161 Washington Avenue. It will be shown at 2 and 8 p.m., Feb. 3 and 2 p.m., Feb. 8. For more information, call 449-3380. February 3--The Empire State Plaza will present the films, \Art in Revolution\ and \The Man in the Park\ as part of a series of films about art. The films will be shown at 12:10 p.m. at the Performing Arts Center, Recital Hall. For more information, call 473·7521. LECTURE January 30--Stephen Schechter, professor of Government and Public Service at Russell Sage College, will present a lecture entitled \Beginnings: How to Study a Community's Origin.\ The lecture will take place at 10 a.m. For more information, call 270- 2344. February 4-Helen Desfosses, SUNY A, Assistant Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of Undergraduate Studies, will present a lecture at 12 p.m. entitled, \The U.S. and the Soviet Union: Dilemmas of Power and Peace.\ For more information, call 449-3380. MUSIC January 30-February 1-- Spider John Koerner, the near- legendary folk hero of the early sixties, will be performing at the Caffe Lena, 45 Phila Street, Saratoga Springs. For more information, call 584-9789. . . U.S. Must /1 Prepare To the Editors: Re \StQp the Draft\ by Julian Lumen (Jan. 22:). Mr • .,Lumen asks whether we really need an army, considering the present nuelear arsenal of the world (more specifically, the u.s. and Russia). He efidently thinks that the ·only possible military conflict we (the U.S.) could have would be one with Russia, · and that this conflict will necessarily involve the destruction of the world through atomic weaponry. I would like to point out that the con~ ventional army has not become obsolete. America has strategic and money-making interests throughout the world, which we would very much like to secure and pro-.ect. The mere potential of raising a s~able army within 60 days could be all the deterrent required to keep our interests safe. The article in question also implies that a concerted anti- draft effort will bring about peace. However, in the very same paragraph, it states that \more ... soldiers won't make any difference'' in the event .of World War III. True, but how convenient not to mention that less soldiers will not make. a difference either. World War III is World War III, and that is all there is to it. Apparently, Mr. Lumen believes stopping the draft will be a major factor in preventing this premature doomsday from ever occurring. How can this be when, by his own account, the size of the army has no bearing on an eventual nuclear war? If our army comes in conflict with Russia, then we have a problem but this does not follow from the fact that we have increased our military land force. · Realistically ·spe~tingJ the U.S. is the backbone of the NATO Alliance, and, as such, is committed to the defense of the member nations. The U.S.S.R. looms forebodingly over these countries in the extent of their land forces, as well as nuclear might. Russia has ap- proximately four times more tanks than the U.S. ( 42,000 to 10,000 in 1976, Newsweek magazine), and it can also put into effect at any time a draft of all young able men for two years of military service. Should the Russians detect a weakness in their -only rival, they could quite conceivably initiate a conventional cam- paign of invasion and conquest. In the face of such odds, any combination of NATO members . must certainly fall, without U.S. _ground support. In conclusion, I should mention that the article was written (lassume) by a 19 or 20 year old, and was an emotional appeal to others in his category. I am 21, therefore ineligible for this ostensible draft. But, if a di:_aft is the first step towards an eventual nuclear war, then everyone has their skin at stake and should prevent this from happening. It should be clear from the foregoing that a draft, unlikely as it ls, will not cause this cataclysmic chain reaction. Respectfully, Joseph A. Nalli .. ·Pull the Rug Over To the Editors: Many freshmen entering West College during September see carpeting in the foyers. They walk on it eJCPecting to find rooms that have been well carpeted also. Unel(pected, to tbeir surprise, they are forced to be upset over lack of room carpeting. Why is it that during Accepted Candidates Day, we are given the red carpet treatment, when, in fact,. they don't exist in rooms at West? Webster, Fox, Davidson, most . fraternities, and the President's house have car· peting. As we wake each morning for our 8:30 (morning) class, my feet say, \Julian are we at the University of the North Pole of what?'' As you . know, many students waste their work study money on carpets. Perhaps they (carpets) can be rented to us like refrigerators since other dorms get them (carpets) :for free and don't have topay for them. If you buy one, who ,keeps it at the end of the year·? If you divide it up, who wants half a carpet? How do you get it on the bus? It makes me mad! They are spending lots of money on Astroturf for Alexander Field for football atbletes, when real students at West are not so giftdd. If Union students cared more about the issues, they . would be less apathetic. Don't · be afraid to co.nfront the · Residence Life Office with the • hard facts. Julian Lumen · - l 1- By The seaso: the r yieldi this n or ch seas OJ 4on tl 1-8-1 weekE travel port Divis Ironic could playol The again: the b Divis: Fabor have< goals, falo's SawyE combi 125 gc these would now. recon: sen sat the te I Other have i Carus• ., the sw ! assist~ ! I BoU I I recen f decim ' \ really Union Dilibe forces loss of Satur• Burns other t Clayto any b: the Bt adeqw Unio Mike~ Brook1 suppor Chris r

I es ed ~e :te e. 20 m s) lll v. e. ill u ic tr n i, r. :e ~. n l, OONOORDIENSIS_, Janoo,ry 29_, 1981 Page 11 sports SPECIAl INTRAMURAL EVENTS Racquetball Single Elimin.ation Trackmen Improve Sign up by- Tuesday, Feb. 3, 1'981 Please hand forms in at the Intramural Office ' --------------------------------------------- Name ___________________ Telephone----------- Time conflicts---------------------------------- Hockey Preview By DOUG SILVERSTEIN . average, compared to that ·Of 6.00 for Brooks. The latter statistic is misleading because Brooks has shown more than flashes of excellence, and the inflated average is partly at- tributable to his inexperience. Ron Cap:pellazzo has taken over the goaltending duties as of late for Brockport. He supports a 4.66 goals against average. Brockport, not indicated by their record, bas played well lately. They have a dim outside chance, like Union, of an ECAC Division li playoff berth. Both of these teams have much to prove late in this season as realistic eyes look towards next season. By JA:CK. CONNORS The Union track team finished third in a five-team meet this .past Saturday at the Memorial Fieldhouse. Colgate University coasted to an easy win in the meet, scoring 97 points, as archrival Siena nipped Union for second by a score of 521h: to 51. Plattsburgh State finished fow'th overall with 24 points, with Marist a distant fifth with 10. Two Dutchmen posted in- dividual wins during the meet. Football star Henry Wright continued his fine jumping with a first in the triple jump. Wright turned in a personal best of 45'2\ to win the event. Wright also finished third in the long jump, with a mark of 21'8\. Freshman Lynwood Wade also posted a win for Union, finishing first in the shot put with a throw of 44'6\. The exuberant freshman led a trio of Dutchmen scorers in the shot event. Bob Pavaeic finished thli'd with a throw of 43'8\ with freshman Mark Dunn fourth. Team Captain Jim Zalucki finished second in the pole vault with a mark of 13', with teammate Roger Adler fourth at 12'. On the track, the Union team turned in considerably faster times than the previous weekend, but was hurt in the overall standings, competing . against a top notch sprint team from Colgate and three of the top five cross country teams in the state. Sophomore Dave Dellehunt had the top finish by a Union runner placing second in the 1,000 meters with a time of 2:35. Team Captain Jack Connor finished fourth in the same event and placed third in his heat of the mile. Garry Wells placed third in the high hurdles, while Darrell Logan finished fifth in the dash finals. Denny Contois finished fourth in the 800 meters with a time of 2:01, while John Stimmel was fourth in the 400 meters. Bob Stelmack and Ed Arnheiter rounded out the team scoring, with fifth place finishes. Union, 2-4 on the year, hosts Springfield and Siena a . week from Saturday at the Fieldhouse. The formula for a successful season is to play adequately on the road and well at borne, yielding a winning record. For this reason, it is hard to explain or characterize the Dutchmen season thus far. The Garnet is 4- 4 on the road and only a meager 1-8-1 at Achilles Rink. This weekend, the 5-12-1 skaters travel up to Buffalo and Brock- port to face two formidable Division II opponents. Ironically, this short road trip could be the beginning of a playoff surge for the Dutchmen. The Saturday night game against Buffalo features two of the best lines in the ECAC Division II. Union's Todd Fabore and Don Beall together have combined for 45 points (18 goals, 27 assists), while Buf- falo's trio of Dale Gwynn, Keith Sawyer, and Kevin Knab have combined for a total of 64 points (25 goals, 39 assists). Without these two lines, neither team would be where they are right now. Buffalo, featuring a 6-6 record, depends heavily on their sensational trio for the bulk of the team's offensive prowess. Other top scorers f.or Union have been top freshman Joe Caruso (7 goals, 6 assists) and the swift Dan O'Neill (7 goals, 5 assists). Although Union has been an inconsistent team all year, its strong road record may in- dicate trouble for Buffalo, as indicated by earlier Union triumphs over Division II powers Oswego and Platt- sburgh State. Buffalo has been a streak team, starting strong, then falling into a minor slump. Lately, they have showed signs of coming out of the skid, as exemplified by a strong 7-2 victory over Cortland State and a grueling 5-5 overtime tie with Plattsburgh State. Since Union is a strong road team and Buffalo plays well at home, this should be a good game; however, it is surely an uphill battle for the Dutchmen six. Skiers Perform Well Both of these teams have recently suffered from a decimated defense that never really was the team's strength. Union's Bill Wall and Al Dilibero have been potent forces, however, the season's loss of Scott Fitzgerald, and last Saturday's absence of Jim Burns have hurt Union. On the other hand, besides defenseman Clayton Watters, Buffalo lacks any backliner to either police the Buffalo net or maintain an adequate rush up ice. Union has been alternating Mike Merlo and freshman Bart Brooks in goal, with Merlo supporting a 4.30 goals against Chris Meyer swims to victory Union travels straight from Buffalo to play Brockport State is a unique Sunday night game. Brockport, 6-8-1, like Union, has had a very disappointing season thus far. They have played adequately, though not well enough at home. State does include one of the most prolific scorers in Division II, Chris Peck (25 goals, 7 assists), a player named ECAC Division II Player of the Week due to his 8 goals in the span of three games. He lines with Greg Brannan (7 goals, 12 assists) and Steve Nugent. The obvious strategy for Union is to blanket Peck in hopes of eliminating his outstanding scoring abilities. Defensively, State has not played well since a Dec. 1 win against Hamilton. They have lost every game since. An example of the weak defense is the fact that the opposition has taken 94 shots at \defenseless\ Brockport goaltenders during the last two games, both losing causes. Young and inexperienced By INGEMAR Last weekend the Union College ski team captured second place in the combined Alpine events at the Invitational Ski Carnival hosted by Alfred University. This is the ski team's second successful performance of the season. At Army the previous week, the Dutclunen fared equally well. The Union skiers' efforts at Alfred have placed them in the number one position in Division II Alpine. Freshman Earl Stokes earned himself a place among the team's top racers. From the unfavorable starting nwnber of 55 in the Slalom event, Stokes came from behind with a pair of excellent runs to place sixth. Supporting the team for the last three years with reliable con- sistency, in the Alfred Slalom, Senior Torn Sargent, true to form, combined a medium paced first run with a sizzling hot second run to finish eighth. Jeff Ince wa~ denied a top ten spot by only .36 seconds. He Dutchwomen Struggle By GLEN ROSENBERG A hard-working women's basketball team has been struggling through a tough season. Fighting highly com- petitive teams like Williams and Albany State, they play a fast moving, exciting game. Led by high scoring Cay Lynck and Carol Wrenn, the Dut- chwomen have the ability to put many points on the board, as this can clearly be noted in their 11-point win over Albany State. Albany State has always had a reputation of having a fine women's basketball team; the halftime score of 36-35, Union up by 1, is testimony to this. Without any individual playmaking, the whole team worked together as a finely meshed unit. Six of these women (Cay Lynch, Sheila O'Donnell, Brenda Hugick, Jackie Tasio, Carol Wrenn and >- Anne Fitzmaurice) reached lii double digits in scoring, and ~ with a great second half effort, ..... they finished with an 84-73 win. ~ £ Prior to this game, the Dutch- .E women bore the weight of two ~ difficult losses. Saint Rose, a. entering the game with a 5-3 Union, even though Union was the more aggressive (totalling 39 rebounds). Williams College defeated the Dutchwomen 77-59. Cay Lynch and Carol Wrenn were the leading scorers, with 19 and 18 points, respectively. Anne Fitzmaurice provided the defensive play with 8 rebounds. Union, now 1-3, has a tough schedule ahead of them, but the win over Albany Monday may be the snark they needed. record, was able to defeat Sheila O'Donnell hits jum,f?~r finished in 11th place. Because of a severe lack of snow, the giant slalom was limited to one run. On a steep, wide open course blemished with rocks and bare spots, Fred Thimm managed a third place finish. Tom Sargent followed close behind in fifth and Jeff !nee came in 13th. The 15-km cross country race was dominated by Cornell and RPI. With U.S. Eastern Team members competing the win- ning time of 39 minutes was one of the fastest ever in Division II hlstory. Racing for the first time, Union 'freshman Kent Avery fmisbed in 15th place with a time of 45 minutes. The Nordic competition in this league has never been so tough. Colleen Morris had an excellent race on the extremely hilly course and finished in 21st place, with a time of 51 minutes. Next weekend, RPI will host the Alpine competition at Willard Mountain in Greenwich, N.Y. The cross country events will be held on Saturday at Relable Racing in Glens Falls. Both areas are less than an hour from the Union campus. Come out and support your Union College ski team.

• es ed he he e. 20 rn S) 1'11 y, e. al ~I ic Ir m d, y. 1e m 1e 8 's n, in te is te te ·e ;e s, >ll 1, r ' '' '' OONOORDIENSIS, January 29~ 1981 Page 11 sports SPECIAL INTRAMURAL EVE:NTS Racquetball Single Elimination Sign up by - Tuesday, Feb. 3, 1981 Please hand forms in at the Intramural Office -----------~-~--------~---------------------- Name----------~----- Telephone.....__~------ Time conflicts---------~----------------- Hockey Preview By DOUG SILVERSTEIN . average, compared to that of 6.00 for Brooks. The latter statistic is misleading because Brooks has shown more than flashes of excellence, and the inflated average is partly at- tributable to his inexperience. Ron Cappellazzo has taken over the goaltending duties as of late for Brockport. He supports a 4.66 goals against average. Brockport, not indicated by their record, has played well lately. They have a dim outside chance, like Union, of an ECAC Division II playoff berth. Both of these teams have much to prove late in this season as realistic eyes look towards next season. Trackmen Improve By JACK CONNORS The Union track team finished third in a five-team meet this past Saturday at the Memorial Fieldhouse. Colgate University coasted to an easy win in the meet, scoring 97 points, as archrival Sre11a nipped Union for second by a score of 521;2 to 51. Plattsburgh State finished fourth overall with 24 points, with Marist a distant fifth with 10. Two Dutchmen posted in- dividual wins during the meet. Football star Henry Wright continued his fine jumping with a first in the triple jump. Wrig.ht turned in a personal best of 45'2\ to win the event. Wrig:ht also finished third in the long jump, with a mark of 21'8 \. Freshman Lynwood Wade also posted a win for Union, finishing first in the shot put with a throw of 44'6\. The exuberant freshman led a trio of Dutchmen scorers in the shot event. Bob Pavactc finished th1rd with a throw uf 43'8\ with freshman Mark Dunn fourth. Team Captain Jim Zalucki finished second in the pole vault with a mark of 13', with teammate Roger Adler fourth at 12'. On the track, the Union team turned in considerably faster times than the previous weekend, but was hurt in the overall standings, competing against a top rtotch sprint team from Colgate and three of the tap five cross country teams in the state. Sophomore Dave Dellehunt had the top finish by a Union runner placing second in the 1,000 meters with a time of 2:35. Team Captain Jack Connor finished fourth in the same event and placed third in his heat of the mile. Garry Wells placed third in the high hurdles, while Darrell Logan finished fifth in the dash finals. Denny Contois finished fourth in the 800 meters with a time of 2:01, while John Stimmel was fourth in the 400 meters. Bob Stelmack and Ed Arnheiter rounded out the team scoring, with fifth place finishes. Union, 2-4 on the year, hosts Springfield and Siena a week from Saturday at the Fieldhouse. The formula for a successful season is to play adequately on the road and well at home, yielding a winning record. For this reason, it is hard to explain or characterize the Dutchmen season thus far. The Garnet is 4- 4 on the road and only a meager 1-8-1 at Achilles Rink. This weekend, the 5-12-1 skaters travel up to Buffalo and Brock- port to face two formidable Division II opponents. Ironically, this short road trip could be the beginning of a playoff surge for the Dutchmen. The Saturday night game against Buffalo features two of the best lines in the ECAC Division II. Union's Todd Fabore and Don Beall together have combined for 45 points (18 goals, 27 assists), while Buf- falo's trio of Dale Gwynn, Keith Sawyer, and Kevin Knab have combined for a total of 64 points !25 goals, 39 assists). Without these two lines, neither team would be where they are right now. Buffalo, featuring a 6-6 record, depends heavily on their sensational trio for the bulk of the team's offensive prowess. Other top scorers fDr Union have been top freshman Joe Caruso (7 goals, 6 assists) and the swift Dan O'Neill (7 goals, 5 assists). Although Union has been an inconsistent team all year, its strong road record may in- dicate trouble for Buffalo, as indicated by earlier Union triumphs over Division II powers Oswego and Platt- sburgh State. Buffalo has been a streak team, starting strong, then falling into a minor slump. Lately, they have showed signs of coming out of the skid, as exemplified by a strong 7-2 victory over Cortland State and a grueling 5-5 overtime tie with Plattsburgh State. Since Union is a strong road team and Buffalo plays well at home, this should be a good game; however, it is surely an uphill battle for the Dutchmen six. Skiers Perform Well Both of these teams have recently suffered from a decimated defense that never really was the team's strength. Union's Bill Wall and AI Dilibero have been potent forces, however, the season's loss of Scott Fitzgerald, and last Saturday's absence of Jim Burns have hurt Union. On the other hand, besides defenseman Clayton Watters, Buffalo lacks any backliner to either police the Buffalo net or maintain an adequate rush up ice. Union has been alternating Mike Merlo and freshman Bart Brooks in goal, with Merlo supporting a 4.30 goals against Chris Meyer swims to victory Union travels straight from Buffalo to play Brockport State is a unique Sunday night game. Brockport, 6-8-1, like Union, has had a very disappointing season thus far. They have played adequately, though not well enough at home. State does include one of the most prolific scorers in Division II, Chris Peck (25 goals, 7 assists), a player named ECAC Division II Player of the Week due to his 8 goals in the span of three games. He lines with Greg Brannan (7 goals, 12 assists) and Steve Nugent. The obvious strategy for Union is to blanket Peck in hopes of eliminating his outstanding scoring abilities. Defensively, State has not played well since a Dec. 1 win against Hamilton. They have lost every game since. An example of the weak defense is the fact that the opposition has taken 94 shots at \defenseless\ Brockport goaltenders during the last two games, both losing causes. Young and inexperienced By INGEMAR Last weekend the Union College ski team captured second place in the combined Alpine events at the Invitational Ski Carnival hosted by Alfred University. This is the ski team's second successful performance of the season. At Army the previous week, the Dutchmen fared equally well. The Union skiers' efforts at Alfred have placed them in the number one position in Division II Alpine. Freshman Earl Stokes earne<l himself a place among th~ team's top racers. From th(l unfavorable starting number of 55 in the Slalom event, Stoke.s came from behind with a pair of excellent runs to place sixth. Supporting the team for the last three years with reliable con- sistency, in the Alfred Slalom, Senior Tom Sargent, true to form, combined a medium paced first run with a sizzling hot second run to finish eighth. Jeff Ince was denied a top ten spot by only .36 seconds. He finished in 11th place. Because of a severe lack of snow, the giant slalom was limited to one run. On a steep, wide open course blemished with rocks and bare spots, Fred Thimm managed a third place finish. Tom Sargent followed close behind in fifth and Jeff Ince came in 13th. The 15-km cross country race was dominated by Cornell and RPI. With U.S. Eastern Team members competing the win- ning time of 39 minutes was one of the fastest ever in Division II history. Racing for the first DutchwoDien time, Union 'freshman Kent A very finished in 15th place Struggle with a time of 45 minutes. The Nordic competition in this league has never been so tough. By GLEN ROSENBERG A hard-working women's basketball team has been struggling through a tough season. Fighting highly com- petitive teams like Williams and Albany State, they play a fast moving, exciting game. Led by high scoring Cay Lynck and Carol Wrenn, the Dut- chwomen have the ability to put many points on the board, as this can clearly be noted in their 11-point win over Albany State. Albany State has always had a reputation of having a fine women's basketball team; the halftime score of 36-35, Union up by 1, is testimony to this. Without any individual playmaking, the whole team worked together as a finely meshed unit. Six of these women (Cay Lynch, Sheila O'Donnell, Brenda Hugick, Jackie Tasio, Carol Wrenn and >- Anne Fitztna urice) reached ~ double digits in scoring, and ~ with a great second half effort, .,_ they finished with an 84-73 win. ~ £ Prwr to this game, the Dutch- E women bore the weight of two _g difficult losses. Saint Rose, a. entering the game with a 5-3 Union, even though Union was the more aggressive (totalling 39 rebounds). Williams Colleg€ defeated the Dutchwomen 77-59. Cay Lynch and Carol Wren11 were the leading scorers, with 19 and 18 points, respectively. Anne Fitzmaurice provided the defensive play with 8 rebounds. Union, now 1-3, has a tough schedule ahead of them, but the win over Albany rv!onday may be the spark they needed. record, was able to defeat Sheila O'Donnell hits jumper Colleen Morris had an excellent race on the eKtremely hilly course and finished in 21st place, with a time of 51 minutes. Next weekend, RPI will host the Alpine competition at Willard Mountain in Greenwich, N.Y. The cross country events will be held on Saturday at Relable Racing in Glens Falls. Both areas are less than an hour from the Union campus. Come out and support your Union College ski team.

Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS~ Jan'UQ,ry 29, 1981 sports L. Cll s::: L. j <ll > Cll -+- (f) >- ..0 0 -+- 0 .!::. a. Hoopers Slulllp John \Count\ Montanile skies for ball By JOHN JAROSAK The Dutchmen basketbaJ:l team suffered through its toughest week of the season in losing to Centra:! Connecticut and St. Lawrence by wide margins. Next to the Colgate disaster (102-66) last Monday, the performance against Central Connecticut was the Gamet's worst effort of the season. The Dutchmen were in the game for only the ~first nine :minutes, down by only two, 11-9. However, the rest of the game was highlighted by an aggressive Connecticut defense and an inept Union offense. The closest the Garnet came in the second half was 59-50 after successive long jumpers by Joe Clinton and Mike Can- ning. However, Central sub- sequently pulled away to the Tankers True~ to Victory Will Chris Meyer continue his legacy of having false-started at least once in every meet of his college career? Will Captain Andy Berquist finally come to realize his four- year dream: a 4-6 team record? Howd, junior Marabeth Soltis, and senior Irwin Weiss. The team has two away meets coming up against Norwich and New Paltz, and is looking for- ward to the healthy return of sprinter Dave Konys. The swimmers' next home meet is against Hamilton, Feb. 7. So, why don't y'all troop on down to Foote Memorial Pool, located in the airy confines of Alumni Gym, and enjoy the pleasant scent of.chlorine fumes as you watch Union battle the opposition. final of 66-54. The offensive leaders for the Dutchmen were Joe Clinton (17 points) and Joe Cardany (16 points). The Dutchmen were frustrated again on Saturday against perennial Division III powerhouse St. Lawrence. Playing before their largest home crowd of the season, in sharp contrast to the con- • sistently poor attendance displayed during the previous part of the season, the Garnet showed flashes of aggressive play hut came up short, 88-65. On several occasions. the team reduced large St. Lawrence leads to single digits, but they could not draw even with the Saints. Four Union ·players scored in double figures, led by Joe Cardany (18 points) and John Montanile (15 points), but the defense was unable to stop St. Larence's potent offense. PREvmw By H.D. HOFFMAN The Dutchmen will be looking to boost their record up near the .500 mark this weekend when they conclude their six game home start and pair up against Hobart, Jan. 30, and Norwich, Jan. 31. Not including Wed- nesday night's game against Capital District rival RPI, the Dutchmen stand at a record of · 4-7, with. .five of those losses coming in the last six games. After the .first eleven games . senior Joe Cardany is leading Union's .scoring attack averaging 17.8 points a game: Cardany, who is now just 154 points shy of the Dutchmen's all-time scoring record, should surpass the 1,632 mark at Middlebury on Feb, 13 if he continues his current pace. Sophomore guard Joe Clinton is second in scoring, pouring in 13.7 a game, while junior for- ward John Montanile is the team's top rebounder with 79, and a 7.1 average. Hobart is a relatively inex- perienced team, which has been hampered by injuries throughout the season. Like any youthful team, they have a tendency to take early leads, and then lose concentration and fall apart. Despite this, and their flimsy 3-14 overall record, tJ:te men from Hobart cannot be taken lightly by the Dutchmen. Joey Wright, an explosive freshman guard, will be back in Hobart's· line-up after injuring his ankle against Hamilton a few weeks ago. Currently, he is averaging 14.2 points a game. Carl Braunagle, Hobart's starting 6 .foot 7 inch center and their second leading scorer, will also have to be dealt with. For the answer to these, and other entertaining questions, tune in as the Bob Magee- oacM'd Union swim team takes on all comers. At press time, the team was 2-1, with a meet against Albany Jan. 28. Pucksters Falter Twice Norwich, which is 8..3, should give Union quite a battle Saturday night. The young team, which has but Jhree upperclassmen, is led by three freshmen, Bob Jaycox, Jon Ford, and Darrell Jenkins. Jaycox, a forward, and Ford, a center, both lead the offense, each averaging 14 points a game. Jenkins, who is a quick, 6 foot 3 inch guard, averages 9 a game. Ford already has 88 rebounds this year, and should give Union forward John Montanile \his money's worth\ under the boards. The team opened the season by knocking off Hartwick (70- 40) and Trinity (62-50). Union had not defeated Trinity in the past six years. Last Saturday, the team was swamped by Kings Point, 72-32. Dutchmen individual winners through the first three meets were distance man Berquist, backstroker Meyer, diver J oahanna Briggs, freestyler, Harry Walkoff and freshmen Kyle Cotugno and Dave Weick. Additional points have been scored by freshmen Ron Newbold, Sharon Pearl and Steve Jacobs, butterflyer Chris The Skating Dutchmen carne up short this weekend, bowing to the University of Lowell Chiefs, 5-3, while also losing, 8- 3, to the hands of the Colby Mules. On Thursday night, the Dutchmen were overpowered by a rugged Colby team. Union came out flat in the opening period, allowing Colby to score three early goals. Todd Fobare broke the ice for Union on a rebound in front of the Colby net, firing the puck past the sprawling goalie; picking assists on the play were Don Beall and Bill Wall. Colby came Sports Happenings Jan. 29-Feb. 5 Varsity Hockey JVHockey Varsity Basketball JV Basketball Varsity Wrestling Varsity Swimming Women's Basketball Jan. 28at Middlebury Jan. 31 at Buffalo Feb. 1 at Brockport Feb. 5 at Holy Cross Jan. 28 Canterbury School Jan.28 RPI Jan. 30 Hobart Jan. 31 Norwich · Feb. 3 Roohester Feb. 5 at Hamilton Jan. 28 RPI Feb. 3 Oneonta Feb. 5 at Hamilton Jan. 28 at RPI Jan. 31 Potsdam Jan. 28 Albany Jan. 31 at Norwich Feb. 4 at New Paltz Jan. 28 at Russell Sage Jan. 30 New Paltz Feb. 4at Hamilton back minutes later, however, to beat goalie Mike Merlo, ending the period with a 4-1 lead. In the second period, Union picked up its pace somewhat, on an early goal by Don Beall. Beall received a pass from fellow winger Bill Wall and put the puck through the legs of the Colby netminder. Colby took the reigns again at the close of the period, firing a shot past Merlo to end the period with a 5·2 lead. In the final period, Colby started strongly with two early · goals, placing Union in a tough situation. Minutes later, Brian Shea received a pass from Kyle Woodman and tucked the puck neatly past the Colby goalie bringing the score to 7-3. Colby ended any hopes for a Union victory, scoring another goal near the close of the game giving them an 8-3 triumph. On Saturday night, the Dutch- men suffered a 5-3 loss to the traditionally strong Lowell Chiefs. Union came out flying in the opening period, over- powering Lowell with a superb offensive onslaught. Bill Mason opened up the scoring on a Union power play, receiving crisp pass from Brad Nicholson and firing the puck just inside the post beating Lowell goalie Jo1m Mackenzie. Minutes later Union pulled ahead 2-0 when Don Beall fired a blistering shot between the legs of the Lowell netminder. Lowell tested Union goalie Bart Brooks many times during the period, but Brooks held them at bay with a steady performance. Lowell finally put itself on the scoreboard in the cls<ling minutes of the period, beating Brooks in a power play goal. The Chiefs came back in the second period to haunt Brooks firing a total of 24 shots at the Union goalie. Lowell scored three goals during the period to pull ahead of the Dutchmen 4-2. Union opened the scoring in the final period when Mickey Perras passed to Mark Bon in front of the Lowell net and Bon fired a shot over the shoulder of Mackenzie. The Dutchmen were, then down by one goal and attempted to tie the game. Lowell scored an insurance marker late in the game to take the 5-3 victory. Union begins a four-game road trip Wednesday, traveling to Middlebury, Buffalo, Brock- port and Holy Cross within the next eight days. The Dutchmen will play home against Rochester Feb. 3, and then will be away Feb. 5 for a game against a tough Hamilton ballclub. Action near the Lowell net last Saturday night All spring athletic physicals will be given Sunday I Feb. 15 in the training room of Achilles Rink at 7:30 p.m. If you have received a physical for any fall or winter sport 1 you do not need one for the spring. - J si tc tc F OJ M a• st .F 01 $1 c] p] c p a] 1111 fir bt: M Tl P1 Se ar cc:: nc UI th pi dE TI bE Ct 81 (E

