set up Trinity five, 18- own 2 Trinity a 2 took the the oc- in poor Union's m deep which but a the line. on two a 25 to in the op- offense Trinity official of a great during of the 36 the time- key field a a top out of .... 111 ru > a Qj c: ru ., li 0 0 .c: 0. 1877 CXl, No.7 Thursday, November 5, 1981 Cleaning Staff Irate Rob Mo:-.dshein, Chairman of Conduct Committee Editor'S note: Due to the :sen- sitivity of the issue, the names of the cleaning staff personnel, and their location of work, have been omitted to preserve their anonymity. By NAOMI BLANK with RACHEL I. MANI!)EL A majority of the cleaning service workers are dissatisfied with their present working conditions. Their two major complaints are: an excessive workload and the lack of communication between the employees and supervisors that has been intensified by a fear among the employees of losing their jobs. Subpoena Power Denied By EDW.ARD ALBRO The Student Affairs Com- mittee (SAC) meeting of Thursday, October 29 was mainly occupied by a discussion of the proposal tQ grant sub- peona power to- the Conduct Committee. The proposal, which elicited much discussion and concern from the members of the SAC, was finally defeated unanimously. , The Conduct Committee had requested that they be granted the power to subpoena wit- nesses, thus forcing witnesses to attend meetings of the Committeee for which they possess pertinent information. The subpoena would not force people to testify, however. The penalty for not complying with a subpoena had not yet been decided upon, but the possibility of a fine was discussed. Mike , Andolina, AsSistant Dean of Students and non-voting advisor to the Conduct Committee, in presenting the proposal said that it was suggested because people were sometimes afraid to testify before the committee. This reluctance occured because of threats and in- timidation of possible witnesses by those accused of misconduct. The committee wishes to make both witnesses and victims less actively responsible for the prosecution of cases, thus hoping to make them less susceptible to outside pressure and·· J:iarrassment. One- way in which this aim ia already ac- complished is by having security, housing, or some other administrative branch of the school press misconduct charges, rather than the victim of the misconduct. The com- mittee felt that the subpoena power would have made it possible for witnesses subject to harrassment to ]lave shifted the responsibility . fQr . their testimony on to the Conduct Co:rrimittee, saying that they forced them to attend. Acting Dean of Students Don· Spring, who chaired the meeting, felt that the proposal, if passed, would increase, rather than decrease the potential witness problems. \We're harassing people who are already being harrassed\ if the policy was passed, he said. Spring felt that along with the increased burden 'On witnesses of penalties for non-attendance of hearings, the College would also face an increased legal burden in exercising the new power. Professor Willard Roth also opposed the proposal, saying \the sad fact is that· if the majority is not willing to play a role in protecting themselves then you can't protect them. You can't coerce people into protecting them- selves.,; Student member Brian Marks expressed concern that a failure to comply with a sub- poena would cause an un- justified blemish on a student's record. Dean Spring closed by saying \I would hope that as a College we would always opt for free choice.\ The Committee unanimously defeated the subpoena proposal, Winter Term Registration Pre-registration materials for winter term 1961-82 will be available. at the Office of the Registrar, R()om 2, Ad- ministration Building, beginning Monday, November 16th. Students are urged to promptly secW'e their copy of these m_aterials. Students who d() not plan to return to Union for the wmter term, except for graduating seniors, must im- mediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Potential December graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of fall term, if they have not already done so. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of November,16-20. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcements. Cow-se requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not ~ater than Monday, November .23rd. A TEN DOLLAR ~$10.00) LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THEREAFTER! but passed a resolution com- menting on· the situation. The resolution stated that the SAC was concerned that adoption of subpoena power would not necessarily remove the burden of intimidation from the student and that it would expose the College to unknown. legal liabilities. The resolution also said that the SAC appreciated the motives of the proposal and deplored the situation which prompted it, but didn)t feel that the subpoena power was a true solution. - Conduct Committee chair- man Rob Mondshein was asked to comment on the proposal and the SAC's decision on it. He prefaced his remarks by stating the committee's purpose to make recommendations to the Dean of Students on cases of student misconduct and by saying that the committee \does function and functions w~ll.\ He said that the power was needed not only to alleviate the problem oj witness in- timidation, but also to insure that no innocent people would be convicted because important witnesses refused to testify. He explained that this was a problem because the committee was not cpnstrained by judicial· requirements of evidence and so a person could be found guilty by the committee on the basis of circumstantial evidence, in the absence of fuller information. The sub- poena power he hoped would alleviate this problem. He agreed that intimidation was a problem, but that it was usually more of a perceived than an actual threat. Mondshein said he hoped to resubmit the proposal next term, this time with student members of the Conduct Committee presenting the case. It was not possible for students- to attend last week's meeting because of scheduling conflicts. He stressed that the power would be very selectively used, only in cases in which important witnesses refused to attend hearings. \We want to get as many facts as possible,\ he said, \If it just helps one case a year, then the committee thinks it would be worth it.'' In other business, the SAC decided that an enata to the Continued on page 2 Union College presently employs 46 people under the authority of Mr. George Paige, Director of Cleaning Services. Mr. Paige has made some alterations in the work assignments of the cleaning staff since his arrival on August 24. Many of the workers have reacted negatively to these changes. \We're here to do our work, but you don't have to .pile that much on, so you can't breathe,\ one cleaner said. The amount of time (or lack thereof) allocated to ac- complish their required duties is a frequent complaint. \Most. of the women say they can't do what's expected of them the way it is supposed to be done, in the time provided,\ one woman said. \We can only do as our ability lets us,\ another ex- plained. Similar complaints were, \It's impossible to do all this. We can't be working like this.\ \There's just too much to do, that's the trouble here.\ \They say we can do it,\ a cleaner noted. \He (Mr. Paige) has been giving more work to everybody.\ When questioned about the work overload and the unrest among the cleaning staff, Hill stated, \'I am not aware of a lot of unhappiness.\ Mr. Hill later explained that,'\Thereason Mr. Paige is working here as the Director of Cleaning Services is because there was a keen sense of awareness that there were numerous inadequacies and inefficiencies in the custodial department. One of the reasons why people feel the workload is excessive is because they (the workers) are trying to do everything in every part of the work area every day. Mr. Paige is trying to show the ~cleaning people they can't perform every function in every room every day-it must be done on a rotating basis. This is one of th~ problems that has been found. There has been a lack of training over the past years. This has caused people to work harder than necessary to keep up the work assignment.\ Mr. Paige explained that he's \in the process of reviewing any area where people think there's too much work. They want to do top to bottom. It's unnecessary. This is what a lot (of workers) have been attempting to do.\ Hill commented that, \the reorganization of the cleaning staff was for the benefit of the College.\ \Instead of one person moving to two or three buildings,\ Paige noted, \we tried to schedule one person for one building.\ When, asked if these changes overworked the employees, within the confines of their six-hour shifts, Paige commented, \I don't think so. Male janitors have been assigned to assist the women. I sent floaters (full-time workers who do not have scheduled duties) to help the women ... to alleviate the excessive cleaning problems.\ When asked if he felt there was unrest among the cleaning staff, Mr. Paige added that, \If we felt that, we would change the schedule.\ However, one woman stated that, \No one can do this schedule before the professors are in, and the kids are in the classes.\ Another commented that, \I'm not saying we can't -do it. I'm just saying we can't do it before the people are in.\ Apparently this situation has made a strong impact on the workers. One member of the . emphasized that, \there have been changes (in the past), but this has been the worst.\ \I know I'm still working six hours,\ one woman explained, \but it's too much work.\ \We used to look forward to work. We enjoyed it,\ another Continued on page ~ Gra·nt Bestowed (CNB)--Union College has received a special $300,000 grant .from the John D. and Catl<lerine T. MacArthur Foundation of Chicago to establish and endow a professorship to assist in bringing new and promising faculty members to the College. The grant, announced Monday, is one of 25 made to liberal arts colleges and major graduate research universities. The total award of $15.6 million is one of the largest single en- dowment awards made by a private philanthropic organization in a single year directed solely to the support of faculty. Union College President John S. Morris said the grant was \exciting and welcome news. It is a vote of confidence in the College that makes us all even more determined than ever to continue our best efforts on her behalf. \Union like other private colleges of the first rank, is dedicated to preserving its quality and independence,'' the president said. \In this regard we place the highest priority on nurturing the quality of the faculty.\ The grant stipulates that the decision about the field and duration of the professorship will be made by the college president. President Morris says Union will announce its plans shortly. The grant is the second major award to Union this year. In January, the National Endowment for the Hmnanities gave the College a $500,000 challenge grant to strengthen Union's hmnanities program. Union is in the midst of a $38 million campaign that seeks endowment support for faculty, scholarships and the College's Ramee campus. In announcing the grants, MacArthur Foundation President John E. Corbally said, \If there is to be a single factor in determining the quality of education that foundations can affect, that factor is faculty competence. Through these endowments we hope we can make a difference in the quality of these faculties and make these great in- stitutions--both public and private-even greater.\

P&Je 2 OONCJOBDII!JNSIB, November 6,_198.1, .. Nestle Protesters Rally Aid Cut Further By KATYBRmER AND JON TITUS On Halloween day three Union C'Ollege students attended a rally and march in protest against Nestle's inhumane practices in third world countries. The rally was held in White Plains, N.Y., which is the national headquarters of the Nestle Corporation. About 350 people assembled in front of the Nestle building, and began picketing, chanting and singing in this INFACT (The Infant Formula Action Coalition) sponsered protest. Their demands were simple; that· Nestle halt promotion of infant formulas. People arrived from all over, mostly by chartered buses such as the one that left Albany Saturday morning. People, young and old, black and white, were there, many dressed in Halloween costwnes. At about 1pm the march through White Plains began, the line of marchers stretched over several city blocks, with people carrying signs, passing aut flyers, and sometimes blocking 'traffic. The police kept a silent watch. Local folks were very receptive to talking with marehers and were shocked when they learned about the practices of the corporation centered in their city. The press was noticeably absent. After a mile and a half the protesters arrived at Oak Park, where several people spoke about efforts made in their. com- munities to fight Nestle. For example, a super market chain now uses \Boycott Nestle\ shopping bags and many campus stores across the country, including the Union College Campus Store, no longer carry Nestle •products. Nestle abuses were outlined: 1. Nestle gives out free samples of infant fonnula to mothers in third world coun- tries who have newborn babies. The infant formula sample lasts just long enough for the mother's breasts ·to stop lac- tating; hence the mother can no longer breast feed her child and often she doesn't have enough money to afford more the the Nestle formula so the baby starves to death. 2. By using sophisticated advertising techniques Nestle has convinced many mothers that infant formula is better than· breast feeding her child because it is the 'western way.' 3. Bottle feeding with infant formula can cause malnutrition and illness because: a. Parents often cannot read the instructions on the label. b. Parents may not be able· to afford enough of instant formula powder and therefore dilute it, greatly reduCing its nutritional value. c. Contaminated water is often mixed with the infant formula because that is all that is available. d. Parents often cannot ot do not know how to sterilize the baby bottle and the baby drinks in harmful germs. Infant formula fed babies are 5 to 10 tmes more likely to die than breast fed babies. At the rally, to cheer everybody up after hearing about these dismal reports, The Fourth Wall Band played some excellent political rock and roll in the park. For more information about the Nestle boycott and INF ACT contact: Capital District IN· FACT 39 Philip St., Albany, N.Y. 12207. Phone: 463-4411. By ELLEN FRISHBERG Associate Director, Financial Aid T•he Concordiensls has reported in previous issues bow student financial aid programs suffered a severe blow at the hands of the Reagan ad- ministration. Unfortunately, the ·previous round of cutbacks was not the last. Last week new rules regarding student aid eligibility were proposed by the Department of Education. The latest. rule stiffening was reported in the October 28 issue of the Chronicle of Higher Education. The proposed regulations will expect college students and their families to contribute· significantly more toward education costs before qualifying for federal grants ne:xt year. Families would be expected to contribute 40 percent of more of their discretionary income to costs - in 1981-82, the expectation was New Committee Openings Announced 10.5 percent of discretionary income. The major loss from this proposal will be to students who benefit from the Pell {BEOG) Grant program. Union students now receive $330,000 in Pell Grants. More than half of the 375 students now receiving up to $1,67().-year from Pell Grants would be eliminated ·kom the program under the proposed formula change. Again, we encpurage you to contact your Congressional representatives and Senators and urge them not to support the porposed cutbacks in student aid. Sample form let- ters and addresses are available at the Financial Aid Office. Unless the politicians in Washington hear your con- cerns, they will continue to chip away at federal aid to students. Access and choice in higher education can only be preserved through your efforts. WRITE TODAY!! Concordy Needs Writers Cleaners Angry Continued from page 1 Applications are now available in the Student Activities Office for the following committees. The applications must be retlli\ned to that office no later tban Friday, November 13, 1981. 1. Academic Affairs Councn (1 vacancy)-Composed ·of Deans of Undergraduates and Graduate Curriculum, 7 faculty members and 4 students. This council reviews the curriculwn of the College, making recommendations for course and program changes as well as reviewing the Liberal Learning Programs and requirements for all majors. Meetings are every week. Stop by the office (4th floor Carnegie) recalled. The dissatisfaction, and comparison to their jobs at Union in past years was brought up by many workers. \U ni()n College is going downhill,\ one worker stated. \It was a great place and I'm surprised tne President allows what's going on.\ In addition to the workload, many workers described tile fear of what might happen should they express their dissatisfaction. When asked to comment on the present situation, one cleaner said, \You ask anybody-but they are scared to tell.\ One worker felt that \what is going on stinks. People are afraid to talk. There's a lot of fear.\ \We are afraid,\ one woman explained, \because thre are no jobs anywhere else. 11 When asked about this fear to communicate, one worker commented that \Union College was never like that. It was entirely different.\ Another emphatically stated, \I never thought Union College would come to this.\ In reference to his relation- ship with the employees, Mr. Paige said, \I've been com- municating and I don't hear anything . . . they don't tell me their problems. 11 Mr. Hill noted that \employees have a chance to speak to their immediate supervisor, . Mr. Paige or myself.\ \I think I get along all right,\ Paige added, \I don't see any animosity?' Hill, however, acknowledged the existing dissatisfaction and explained his reasoning for it. \The reasons I perceive (for the unrest),\ he explained, \is that prior to Mr. Paige we were without anyone in charge of the department.\ \One of the ongoing concerns among the custodial staff (prior to Mr. Paige's arrival),\ Hill con- tinued, was a feeling that the work assignments were not evenly distributed. If there were concerns voiced, perhaps they were due to a custodial department without a director . . . they had little direction ~r leadership. That may have been the cause of the problem.\ One worker felt, however, that \things were going smoothly until Mr. Paige arrived.\ In addition, t'wo workers agreed that \there was no problem between the time Mr. Lawton (the previous director) left and Mr. Paige was here.\ When asked his opinion regarding the negative feed- back starting from the time of Paige's arrival, Hill described the reaction as \the same as it always would be with the reorganization of a depart- ment,\ and \if there is unrest, it's because of a lack of com- munication of what the purpose of the changes are that have taken place.'' During the time Mr. Lawton was still director, a union was voted down twice by the workers. Presently they are not unionized. Since Mr. Paige's arrival, however, some organizers have surfaced. One woman stated that ''the minute the union was not voted in, they (Hill and Paige) treated us liKe dirt.\ The function of the union would not 'be to acquire more benefits for the workers. One cleaner explained, \The benefits are good. Nothing has been taken away benefit-wise.\ 2. Standing of Students (2 vacancies)-Reviews the records of those students earning less than satisfactory term average. Deals with student petitions for readmission and exemption from graduation requirements. Major meetings held during vacation periods. 3. SAC on Fraternity-sororities (3 vacancies)-This committee is charged by President Morris to review and recommend the role of fraternities and sororities on the Union College campus. In terms of future goals, Mr. Hill noted that, \We still have a lot of improvements to make as far as the standard of cleaning is concerned . . . we will con- tinue to make more im- provements in the future.\ The outlook of two of the cleaning staff members was different than Mr. Hill's. One woman said, when asked to reflect on the situation, \Everybody is screaming about this.'' Another commented, \The way things are going now, they are going to get tougher.\ Subpoena Continued from page 1 student handbook should be issued stating that the hazing policy printed under the heading dealing with fraternity matters was misplaced and should be printed in the general section of the book, where it would come to the attenti()n of all. The main topic .of discussion for next week's meeting will be the President's charge to the co:mrrtittee. • Tuesday Nights Student Forum This week's meeting of the Student Forum granted, after much discussion, ap- proximately $2,500 to the Scuba Club. They voted to postpone funding the Pre-law society until .questions concerning that group's constitution were resolved. In addition, the Forum began the drafting of a letter to College administration concerning student safety. Main points of the agenda for next week's meetings are discussion of the insurance situation for student activities, further drafting of the security letter, and committee reports. BE IN THE FOREFRONT OF TODAY'S TECHNOLOGY AS A SCIENTIFIC-ENGINEERING OFFICER Our scientific-engineering officers are planning and designing tomorrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeing their ideas and concepts materialize. They have the finest. state-of-the-art equipment to test their theories. The working envi· ronment is conducive to research. And Air Force ~x- perience is second to none. You can be part of this dynamic team if you have a scientific or engineering degree. Your first step will be Officer Training School. Help us shape our future as we help you start yours. Be a scientific-engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at · 472-4484. Ask for SSgt Mike Bobrinitz A great way of life.

- ry •m ltS ell on in of ng ell ed .he ~e. to tal >rS [)rt in et- lre ~id in m- hlp ItS. 1er red l'E 5 the :1fter ap- cuba pone ~iety that vere the of a :Ition VIa in next ;sion 1 for ther ~tter, CONCORDlENSIB, November 61 1981 feature ·Union's Da.r C•re Center: Romper Rooni By 1'110MAS CHING Contrary to popular belief, the best Halloween costume was not to be found at the South College Halloween party. Rather, the best costume was that of 4-year-old Paul.Hayes of the Union College Child Care Center. His ingenious blue Tyrannosaurus rex costume, which he called to my attention, had many ''rows and rows of teef\ was just one of the many at the Center's Halloween party. assignments w:hich range from shopping for groceries and cooking hot meals to raking leaves, in order to earn \credit points.\ In addition to these re~onsibilities, they also serve on committee boards which includes devising the curriculum \fith the teachers or planning the monthly budget. The .four person staff consists of Ms. Elmendoraf, Ms. Catherine Daniak and Ms. Susan Noe assist teacher Sheila O'Donnell with the lessons of vocabulary, math, reading and writing. In addition, the group often goes on \field trips'' to Achilles Rink, Jackson's Gardens, and the nea.rby Schenectady Museum and Library. Pages .... .~ 10 ·}.'% > i~ lj (l) s:: 10 I >- .c 0 0 ..c a. The Center, across .from J>U, is a \cooperative day care program\ founded by Prof es so rs Butte rstei n, Tobiesson and Boyer eight years ago, Over the years the Center has expanded to house the present day group of 20-23 youngsters whose ages range from 18 months to 5 years. Perhaps the success of the program can best be attributed to the ''parental participation, involvement and generosity\ said Assistant Teacher Mary Elmendoraf. The program, she explained, is based on a \credit system,. in which the parents \volunteer'' for various The use of the center is given priority to members of the faculty, student body, staff, alumni with the remaining openings for the general public. The Center is under the guidelines of the New York State Department ~f Social Science and follows the campus calendar. lt is open from 7:45 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. during Sep- tember through June; however, the hours are flexible. All in- terested persons are invited to call Registration at 377-3610 and speak to Ms. Ellen Strauss for more information. Youngsters enjoy a.ctivities under supervision at the Union Day Care Center· Blue Skies Over Union: Try A New Style . By D. BOOTH I· Friday Nights \ By MARK MORTENSEN every weekend. But there are OPEN DOOR 136.Jay Street Dovmtown Schenectady • 346·2719 Friday night comes along but once a week; but as a term goes by we find that we have already spent our creativity and are repeating the same motions ~cu/pture Techniques The Department of the Arts wil.l be giving a series o.f practical demonstrations in sculptural techniques: how to work with wood, clay, plaster, stone and metal. Demonstrations will be given. by sculptor Alex Markhoff, and deal with tool sharpening, joint design, roughing out, and carving. They will be held on Thursdays, from 3- 5 p.m. in the sculpture studio, Arts Building, room 115. All are invited to attend. November 5-- Wood II November 12-- Wood Ill Nover:n ber 19-- Plaster I\ December 3--Piaster II School of l_aw . Uleslera ,Dew England Celle9e . SPRINGFIELD. MASSACHUSETTS 01119 The School of Low at - . Western New England College Springfie:ld, Massachusetts on will be represented by Professor Cathy Jones Wednesday,November 18, 1981 from 1 :00 - 4:00 p.m. at The Placement Office We ~~ncom·age attendance by interested st..;denis, .including women, minority and han- di ca pp~d students. alternatives worth exploring, and in case you haven't heard, here are a few of them: THE FRIDAY NIGHT MENU Appetizer: · Every freshman has discovered a great way to startJhe night: Dinner at West. Especially recommended are the combination ice cream- conversation piece (\What can they do to Sealtest Ice Cream?\) and an early exit. Entree No. 1: The fraternity parties (don't you dare call them \frats\ are good, inex- pensive nigh~s of wine, women, and (mostly) song. The Greeks can find an occasion to celebrate any weekend of the year. Entree No. 2: No term at Union would be complete without a road trip. Skidmore, with its nearby location and abundance of women, becomes an extension of the Union campus. Entree·No. 3: The fihn of the week can be a good break if you have nothing else to do. Make sure to bring along some homework in case of a \rare\ projector breakdown. Entree No. 4: The Union athletic department presents open skating, swimming, and other use of the facilities on a limited basis. This entree is not recommended for those too drunk to stand up. Dorm Life Smorgasbord: A special feature of Union's residence life, activities include the newly illegalized hall sports (lacrosse, soccer, frisbee, etc.) and waiting for fire alarms. And, for the more adventurous, a trip to Price Chopper and some real food. Old Favorites: Don't forget to include a trip to both the Pub and the Skellar to see who else has no plans for the evening. Desert: After the main part of the evening (or, to put it dif- ferently, after you kick the keg. . . ) , Schenectady has many attractions that cannot be missed. These include the 24- .Continued on page 18· often take on a gray or dark blue hue, colors which signal rain. But that does not mean that one should despair and curse that weather. There is plenty to do on a rainy day. A rainy day can be divided into two distinct parts: daytime and nighttime. The reason for .this is that a rainy night outside means that the night inside will be warm and sensual. A rainy day simply means that one's mind must be diverted from the gloom which enters the window and seems to settle everywhere from the sofa to the soul. The day should be spent indoors, for although I enjoy walking barefoot in the rain as much as anyone, I do not enjoy the results which are likely to be a cold and sore throat at this time of year. This poses the dilemma of exactly what one can do in- doors. What I like to do on a rainy day is play parlor games: Monopoly, chess, Chinese checkers, dominoes, hearts, Twister and so on. These games are a delightful way to while away an afternoon. Invite over your favorite companion and prepare the room for the af- ternoon. Set up the game of your choice on the floor, surrounded by lots of pillows. When your guest arrives, wet from the drizzle, present them with a snifter of brandy and perhaps a small gift. I may add that even guys like gifts. Just because it is a stereotype that guys give girls gifts does not mean that there cannot be an exception. Remember that it is better to ' give than receive, and most guys like their girls to give a lot. Also remember to set up a little snack, cheese and crackers with beer and ale. It can be really fun to play around all afternoon. Of course after a couple of hours of this, one needs refreshing. The best refresher that I know is a nice long bath. The bath is popular in other areas of the country .like California, where the weather is more conducive to bathing. The hot bath and jacuzzi are still enjoying quite a vogue in these places. But that does not mean that a plain simple bath, Union style, cannot be enjoyed. There is definitely a right way to take a bath. The right way begins with the proper equipment. . Pl~nty of hot water is the most important item. Run the water gushingly over salts and bubble bath. Water salts make the water soft, which means more suds. The bubble bath should be reminiscent of the north country - scents of pine, and Mountain Laurel. While the bath is running, new bars of soap, likewise scented, should be placed by the bath. The towel~ should be terry cloth and as big as possible. The most appropriate apparel for the bath is naturally \au naturel\; however, you will waht to look as alluring as, possible before you disrobe. Earlier I mentioned that the night has a sensual, fresh quality when it is raining. The day can be passed on trivialities such as a bath or parlor games, but these are definitely out for the night. Again the setting should be relaxing. Dress should be comfortable cottons and jeans. Then order out Chinese. After dinner, some brandy' and some light dinner convErsation, it's time to get out the l>aby oil. No, I am not going to saggest something kinky. What I am going to suggest is something to make the night as warm and cozy as possible. Light a few scented candles around the room. Then spread a blanket across the floor and invite your partner to relax on the blanket. Ever so slowly begin to rub the baby oil into his or her back. (I hope that the reader realizes that this is not fun when one is wearing clotl'lers, therefore a. word to the wise . . . ) The best technique is . to first rub it in, using the palms and fingertips, in an area about as wide as both hands. Then spread the fingers and turn the hand as though for a karate chop. Keeping the fingers loose, begin to hit the partner's back in the already oiled area. The hit should be done in such a way that the fingers click together, and 110 pain is felt. Continue this for about five minutes or until the <Jil is dry. Then repeat. There are of course other tecl:lniques for various other parts of the body but I am certain that most do not need instruction in these techniques. So instead of moping around the room the next time it rains, do something new and exciting. Try a new style .

Pa.ge 4 OO'l\TCORDIENBIS, .Novembe'l' 6., 1981 c: IV E L.. 0 z ~ .~ E L.. 0 ..,_ CJ) >- ..c 0 +- 0 ..c Q. ~rts & Culture ,_,_ ··e.~ Itt Dr. H.W. Blodgett spoke on ''some reflections on growth and change in Leaves of Grass.\ Blodgett Speaks on Whitman: 'Moonchildren' Senior Year '66 By BETSY MODEST Opening night for Michael Weller's Moonchlldren, will be Friday, November 13. Natalie Barandes '82\ the director of the play, works with a cast of eleven enthusiastic students. Rehearsals began five weeks ago and have been held five nights a week for ap- proximately three and a half hours each night. Obviously a lot of hard work is going into this production as cast mem- bers and production . crew adhere to this ri·gorous schedule. Founder of American li:terat·u.r.e? The cast consisting of fresh- men, sophomores, juniors, and seniors is diverse. The new faces who Will dazzle the stage next week. are a welcome sight to theatre at Union. The eleven cast members are: Elizabeth Baker, Ira Baron, Mitch Bern• stein, Scott Blum, Robert Fast, Keith Feltman, Melissa Gold, Darcy Hammerman, Adam Storke, Mike Zelvin, and Wendy Zisselman. Behind the scenes, there is another conscientious crew. Susan Rubman is the set designer, Glen Krntoff is the production stage manager, Leslie Nadel is the publicity director, and Steve Auerbach is in charge of lighting design. Hard work from allpoints of the play production should prove rewarding come November 13, facades which they withdraw behind. Through continual jokes and put-ons, they defend themselves against the pain of the raw, natural world. During the undergraduate years, they can keep their masks intact, escaping responsibilities they don't want to deal with, and reaping the benefits of the world where they can discover them. Suddenly, senior year arrives, and they are confronted with the realities ofthe \real\ world. They are forced to deal with themselves, as individuals who need to make it on their own. The jokes and put-ons can no longer hide their frailties, and the facades melt into thin air. Yet this inevitable con- frontation shoUld not necessarily be viewed in a negative light. The fact that the masks are dissolved allows us to see their true selves. At the end, the reality of the situation is recognized and the charac- ters have to come to terms with themselves as functioning, contributing, individQals to the world beyond the college campus. By NORMAN BIRNBACH On Friday, October 30, Dr. Harold W. Blodgett, Union College's Thomas Lamont Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature Emeritus, spoke to some forty members of The Friends of the Union College Library on \Some Reflections on 'Growth and Change in Leaves of Grass,''' the most famous of Walt Whitman's work. Dr. Blodgett, a noted Whitman scholar, has written and edited several books on Whitman, and has helped in the preparation of the Whitman exhibit now 011 display in the Schaffer Library. Walt Whitman revised and re- Bow Wow Wow: arranged the order of tne \clusters\ of t\~ems in tile Leaves of Grass' six times. Tlu first edition, which came out in 1855, with Whitman doing much of the printer's work, contained only twelve poems. The sixth edition, which was printed a hundred years ago, contained 266 poems. \Leaves of Grass is unique in American literature.\ according to Dr. Bodgett, as a single production,\ spanning a lifetime of work, which is \all one thing.\ That one thing is to be an expression of American. Whitman wanted to be tne American writer, the founder of American literature. Whitman went to many lengths so that he would be thought of as such, even to writin~ anonymous reviews of his works and sub- mitting them to newspapers to publish. In drawing on his books, Whitman made sure that the picture portrayed a very American-looking man of the land, which Whitman, who was born in Brooklyn, was not. Although he was invited to speak at the William's College Commencement only to provoke the faculty, Whitman has become the legendary figure he wanted to be. Dr. Blodgett gave us an interesting and inspiring account of Walt Whitman and his work. If you missed the lecture you can still get a taste of the art that Whitman has left us-Just catch the exhibit at Schaffer Library. A New Wave In New Wave Moonchildren is a comic play which intertwines its humorous tendencies with a realistic element. The scenes take place in the charaCters' senior year of college in the year 1966. It is a picture which we, as a college audience, can easily identify with. A group of students, living off-campus, deal with the trials and tribulations of everyday college life. The off-campus apartment, which is a coed dwelling, provides a com- fortable setting forthe acti-on of the play. We must keep in mind, however, that the morality of the sixties, differing from that of the eighties, is reflected in the undergrads' thoughts, actions, relationships, and perceptions. Yet their ex- periences reflect our current modes of life closely. The characters are so much like us because they are entangled in a web of consciousness. They are caught up in the images they portray. In this respect, the play is an examination of the duplicities of human nature. On the one hand, the characters are real people with real emotions, vulnerabilities, and sen- sitivities. But these \real\ qualities are masked by the The fact that Moonchildren reflects the universal dilemma of college graduates-to-be, makes it a play which is im- portant in 1931. The characters on the stage could be any one of us. As Shakespeare so eloquently remarked: we are all actors on the stage of life. Thus, the performance of Moonchild:ren is one not to be missed. lt promises to be a trUly rewarding experience not only in the talents of the cast and crew, but in the issues which the play addresses. By STEVE VANNESS Do you remember the good ol' days when the ''New\ in New Wave meant something really new and not just a tired, worn our cliche? And the name of the game was write songs about anything as long as they were loud and dancable? If you do, then you probably also remember Malcolm McClaren, the manager, and dare I say it, creator of the Sex Pistols, that incredibly raucous and irreverent band that helped launch the new wave. Since those glorious days, McClaren has been here and there doing different things but all the while, he has been observing the course of the music revolution he helped launch, keeping track of the inevitable changes in the structure of New Wave and post-New Wave pop music. Armed with his observations, McClaren is (apparently) making a bid to, once again, capture a place in the annals of pop history by introducing something \completely new and different\; in this case, as creator and manager of a band called Bow Wow Wow. Bow Wow Wow is certainly different. Led by Annabelle Luen, a fifteen-year-old Ber~ mudan refugee who McClaren discovered in a London laun- dromat, Bow Wow Wow's music relies heavily on Latin American and African rhythms with touches of reggae. That in itself is not so unusual - but when this Latin beat is corn· bined with Duane Eddy guitar licks, Annabelle Luen's eJC· ceptional vocal ability, and some outstanding jazz bass work, the result is a unique style of dance music. Bow Wow Wow released a single in Britain called \W.O.R.K:\ which was a chart success, and their first album, See Jungle! See Jungle! Go Join Your Gang Yeah! City All Over, Go Ape Crazy, has recently been released in tb:is country. The album as a wh()le is rather uneven, as one would expect from a new band. There is a great deal of weak material, most notably in \(I'm a) T.V. Savage,\ \Jungle Boy,\ and \Go Wild in the Country,\ but there are also some really great songs on the album. I especially liked \Elimination Dancing,\ a very dark and mysterious cut which incorporates African chants into a moody rhythm, \Hullo Hullo' Daddy (I'll sacrifice you),\ a subdued reggae tune with some nice guitar work, and \Why are Babie~ so wise,'' a powerful song with some of Annabelle Luen's best vocals on the album. -\~c5~ 464 State St. Schenectady, NY A~ ~~ -.WE DELIVER- 374-1882 Perhaps McClaren has developed the next step in the evolution of pop music, but it is probably too early to say for sure. At this point, Bow Wow Wow's music is accessible only to those who are willing to take the time to listen carefully, but who knows where it will be in a few years? - perhaps Bow Wow Wow will do for the music of the 80's what the Sex Pistol did for the music of the 70's. Perhaps .. . (WRUC will present a radio special with Bow Wow Wow Saturday night, November 7 at 10:00 p.m.) Performances of the show will be on two consecutive weekends: November 13, 14, 15,-- and November 19, 20, 21. All shows will begin at 8:00 p.m. and are general seating. Tickets are on sale at the Nott Memorial Box: Office every afternoon and during weekends, and at the box office in Carnegie .from 1:00 to 8:00 p.m. daily. Student tickets are $2.00 each; all others are $3.00. A lot of hard w!Jrk has gone into this production and cast and crew alike are excited about the results. Buy your ticket now! AT THE SKELLAR: SATURDAY, NOV. 7th, 9:00pm RATHSKELLAR NOVEMBER-FEST Go GERMAN with KRONENBOURG $.80 Bottle 0: Nov perl star Sim Doc ten diffl pla~ \Tll eacl the the T Rm tur~ mill reSJ the elal thei con II Am sti:u 5, •

Page 4 OONOORDIENSIS, .November 6 1 1981 ~rts & Culture 16 :.::;u;u:t;l:;I~t:u;tllllr ;; 111 ;. ··=r\'l!l!llll'\~· 'Moon children' - S-enior Y·ear '66 .,_ II) 10 it c: IU E t- o z c: E '- E IJ) s 0 0 By BETSY MODEST proximately three and a half hours each night. Obviously a lot of hard work is going into this production as cast mem- bers and production crew adhere to this rigorous schedule. -a----· Opening night for Michael Well'er's MoonchUdren, will 'be Friday, November 13. Natalie Barandes '82', the director of the play, works with a cast of eleven enthusiastic students. Rehearsals began five weeks ago and have been held five nights a week for ap- The cast consisting of fresh- men, sophomores,. juniors, and seniors is diverse. The new faces who will dazzle the stage next week are a welcome sight to theatre at Union. The eleven cast members are: Elizabeth Baker, Ira Baron, Mitch· Bern- stein, Scott Blum, Robert Fast, Keith Feltman, Melissa Gold, Darcy Hammerman, Adam Storke, Mike Zel'vin, and Wendy Zissehnan. Behind the scenes, there is another conscientious crew. Susan Rubman is the set designer, Glen Krutoff is the production stage manager, Leslie Nadel is the publicity director, and Steve Auerbach is in charge of lighting design. Hard work from all points of the play production should prove rewarding come November 13. facades which they withdraw behind. Through continual jokes and put-ons, they defend themselves against the pain of the raw, natural world. During the undergraduate years, they can keep their masks intact, escaping responsibilities they don't want to deal with, and reaping the benefits of the world where they can discover them. Suddenly, senior year arrives, and they are confronted with the realities of the' 'real\ world. They are forced to deal with themselves as individuals who need to make it on their own. The jokes and put-ons can no longer hide their frailties, and the facades melt into thin air. Yet this inevitable con- frontation should not necessarily be viewed in a negative light. The fact that the masks are dissolved allows us to see their true selves. At the end, the reality of the situation is recognized and the charac- ters have to come to terms with themselves as functioning, contributing, individuals to the world beyond the college campus. Or. H. W. Blodgett spoke on \some reflections on growth and change in Leaves of Grass.\ Blodgett Speaks on Whitman: Founder of American L-iteratu.re? By NORMAN BIRNBACH On Friday, October 30, Dr. Harold W. Blodgett, Union College's Thomas Lamont Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature Emeritus, spoke to some forty members of The Friends of the Union College Library on \Some Reflections on 'Growth and Change in Leaves of Grass,\' the most famous of Walt Whitman's work. Dr. Bl()dgett, a noted Whitman scholar, has written and edited several books on Whitman, and has helped in the preparation of the Whitman exhibit now on display in the Schaffer Library. Walt Whitman revised and re- Bow Wow Wow: arranged the order of the \clusters\ of poems in the Leaves of Grass six times. The first edition, which came out in 1855, with Whitman doing much of the printer's work, contained only twelve poems. The sixth edition, which was printed a hundred years ago, contained 266 poems. \Leaves of Grass is unique in American literature,\ according to Dr. Bodgett, as a single production,\ spanning a lifetime of work, which is \all one thing.\ That one thing is to be an expression of American. Whitman wanted to be the American writer, the founder of American literature. Whitman went to many lengths so that he would be thought of as such, even to writing anonymous reviews of his works and sub- mitting them to newspapers to publish. In drawing on his books, Whitman made sure that the picture portrayed a very American-looking man of the land, which Whitrnan, who was born in Brooklyn, was not. Although he was invited to speak at the William's CollEge Commencement only to. provoke the faculty, Whitmaa has become the legendary figure he wanted to be. Dr. Blodgett gave us an interesting and inspiring account of Walt Whitman and his work. If you missed the lecture you can still get a taste of the art that Whitman has left us-Just catch the exhibit at Schaffer Library. A New Wave In New Wave Moonchildren is a comic play which intertwines its humorous tendencies with a realistic element. The scenes take place in the charaCters' senior year of college in the year 1966. It is a picture which we, as a college audience, can easily identify with. A group of students, living off-campus, deal with the trials and tribulations of everyday college life. The off-campus apartment, which is a coed dwelling, provides a com- fortable setting for the action of the play. We must keep in mind, however, that the morality of the sixties, differing from that of the eighties, is reflected in the undergrads' thoughts, actions, relationships, and perceptions. Yet their ex- periences reflect our current modes of life closely. The characters are so much like us because they are entangled in a web of consciousness. They are caught up in the images they portray. In this respect, the play is an examination of the duplicities of human nature. On the one hand, the characters are real people with real emotions, vulnerabilities, and sen· sitivities. But these \real\ qualities are masked by the The fact that Moonchildren reflects the universal dilemma of college graduates-to-be, makes it a play which is im- portant in 1981. The characters on the stage could be any one of us. As Shakespeare so eloquently remarked: we are all actors on the stage of life. Thus, the performance of Moonchildren is one not to be missed. It promises to be a trUly rewarding experience not only in the talents of the cast and crew, but in the issues which the play addresses. By STEVE VAN NESS Do you remember the good ol' days when the \New\ in New Wave meant something really new and not just a tired, worn our cliche? And the name of the game was write songs about anything as long as they were loud and dancable? If you do, then you probably also remember Malcolm McClaren, the manager, and dare I say it, creator of the Sex Pistols, that incredibly raucous and irreverent band that helped launch the new wave. Since those gloriot1S days, McClaren has been here and there doing different things but all the while, he has been observing the course of the music revolution he helped launch, keeping track of the inevitable changes in the structure of New Wave and post-New Wave pop music. Armed with his observations, McClaren is (apparently) making a bid to, once again, capture a place in the annals of pop history by introducing something \completely new and different\; in this case, as creator and manager of a band called Bow Wow Wow. Bow Wow Wow is certainly different. Led by Annabelle Luen, a fifteen-year-old Ber- mudan refugee who McClaren discovered in a London laun- dromat, Bow Wow Wow's music relies heavily on Latin American and African rhythms with touches of reggae. That in itself is not so unusual - but when this Latin beat is com- bined with Duane Eddy guitar licks, Annabelle Luen's ex- ceptional vocal ability, and some outstanding jazz bass work, the result is a unique style of dance music. Bow Wow Wow released a single in Britain called \W.O.R.K.~' which was a chart success, and their first album, See Jungle! See Jungle! Go Join Your Gang Yeah! City All Over, Go Ape Crazy, has recently been released in this country. The album as a whole is rather uneven, as one would expect from a new band. There is a great deal of weak material, most notably in \(I'm a) T.V. Savage,\ \Jungle Boy,\ and \Go Wild .in the Country,\ but there are also some really great songs on the album. I especially liked \Elimination Dancing,\ a very dark and mysterious cut which incorporates African chants into a moody rhythm, \Hullo Hullo' Daddy (I'll sacrifice you),\ a subdued reggae tune with some nice guitar work, and \Why are Babie~ so wise,'' a powerful song with some of Annabelle Luen's best vocals on the album. ~~c1~ 464 State St. Schenectady, NY A~ ~~ -.WE DELIVER- 374-1888 Perhaps McClaren has developed the next step in the evolution of pop music, but it is probably too early to say for sure. At this point, Bow Wow Wow's music is accessible only to those who are willing to take the time to listen carefully, but who knows where it will be in a few years? - perhaps Bow Wow Wow will do for the music of the 80's what the Sex Pistol did for the music of the 70's. Perhaps .. . (WRUC will present a radio special with Bow Wow Wow Saturday night, November 7 at 10:00. p.m.) Performances of the show will be on two consecutive weekends: November 13, 14, 15,- and November 19, 20, 21. All shows will begin at 8:00 p.m. and are general seating. Tickets are on sale at the Nott Memorial Box Office every afternoon and during weekends, and at the box office in Carnegie from 1 :00 to 8:00 p.m. daily. Student tickets are $2.00 each; all others are $3.00. A lot of hard wt>rk has gone into this production and cast and crew alike are excited about the results. Buy your ticket now! AT THE SKELLAR: SATURDAy I NOV. 7th, 9:00pm RA THSKELLAR NOVEMBER-FEST Go GERMAN with KRONENBOURG $.80 Bottle I .( No pe1 sta Six Do ter: dif pit: \T eat thE thE r Ru tm mi re! th• elc: tht co: l Ar st1 5, • ·'

OONCORDIENSIB, November 6, 1981 Page cs. ~rts & Culture '·'Good Doctor'' Is Superb! By VICKI STACK On its opening night, November 3, the Mountebanks l'lerformers put on an out- standing performance of Neil Simon's play, \The Good Doctor.\ The play consists of ten scenes each relating ·a different tale. What makes the play unique is the character of \The Writer\ who narrates ' each of the tales and serves as the connecting link throughout the play. The setting of the play is Russia at the turn of the cen- tury. Neither this, nor the minimal use of props is what is responsible for the success of the play. The actors, stripped of elaborate props; demonstrate their acting strengths in very convincing performances. In the first act Rob Quish and Anna Tucker provided out- standing performances in Scene 5, \The Seduction.\ Rob Quish plays a calculating ladies' man who is absorbed in his ability to charm women. Through Anna's excellent use of facial ex- pressions, the audience is able to witness the success ·Of his manipulations. William Ziskin as \The Writer\ (narrator) provided structural support, whil~ also contributing to the comical tone of the play. By opening and closing the play, and by also appearing in the majority of the scenes, William is a familiar figure to the audience and becomes one of their favorites. On the whole, all the actors and actresses should be com- mended on their ability to assume more than one role. It is through this versatility that their talent is best exemplified. \The Good Doctor\ will be playing November 3rd through the 7th in the· Nott Memorial. I · highly recommend it as en- tertainment for an evening. William Ziskir:~, the \narrator is a consistent link between several acts in which the other actors play ' multiple role$. Dance Workshop By E. HOLTZMAN Union College Concert Committee and Budweiser present An evening of music and da_nce November 23rd in Alumni Gym The Go-Go's TtiiS WEEK ON WRUC Yearbook Cover Contest for Gamet 1982 Beginning this Saturday, November 7, at 12:30 p.m., the Dance Club will be sponsoring a free jazz dance workshop. The workshop will meet every Satur-day for the remainde of the term, in the dance studio, Arts Building 202. -Saturday, 10 p.m.--Saturday night concert series presents Bow Wow Wow, an hour of music and conversation with the RCA recording artists. --Sunc!ay, 8-11 p.m.--The Jeff Mitchell Magical 42nd St. Cruise, J hours of explicit sex films with music to match. It's worth getting off on. $50 First Prize --Tuesday,2-5 p.m.--The Sebastian Show, 3 hours of rock that will satisfy even the most pretentious audiophile. It's worth living 'for! Submit all entries to Mrs. Marra in Student Activities .by November 24th. The workshop will be taught by An'nette Genovese, trained in ballet, Afro- American and jazz dancing. Ms. Genovese, who received a BA in dance from William Paterson College in Wayne, New Jersey, will be instructing in the Luigi Jazz technique. --WRUC is looking for talented people to design a WRUC logo. The logo must contain the followin'g: WRUC, 90.9 FM, Schenectady, N.Y. The due date is Nov. 10. All entries become the property of WR UC and the best one will receive a cash prize. ltlll Barr.est OIYaluesl DAY SALE November 9 through November 13 IMPRINTED *SHORT SLEEVE T-SHIRT.S LP RECORDS & RECORDED TAPES ACADEMIC YEAR CALENDARS CRESTED JEWER L Y CRYSTAL & CERAMIC ANIMALS RACQUETBALL RACKETS HUNDREDS OF SELECTED PAPERBACKS PLUS 1 DAY SPECIALS THROUGHOUT THE WEEK •·

OONCOBDllJJNSIS# November 6 1 1981 Page 15 ~s & Culture ''Good Doctor'' Is Superb! By VICKI STACK On its opening night, November 3, the Mountebanks performers put on an out- standing performance of Neil Simon's play,. \The Good Doctor.\ The play consists of ten scenes each relating ·a different tale. What makes the play unique is the character of \The Writer,\ who narrates each of the tales and serves as the connecting link throughout the play. The setting of the play is Russia at the turn of the cen- tury. Neither this, nor the minimal use of props is what is responsible .for the success of the play. The actors, stripped of elaborate props; demonstrate their acting strengths in very convincing performances. In the first act Rob Quish and Anna Tucker provided out- standing performances in Scene 5, \The Seduction.\ Rob Quish plays a calculating ladies' man who is absorbed in his ability to charm women. Through Anna's excellent' use of facial ex- pressions, the audience is able to witness the success of his manipulations. William Ziskin as \The Writer\ (narrator) provided structural support, while. also contributing to the comical tone of the play. By opening and closing the play, and by also appearing in the majority of the scenes, William is a familiar figure to the audience and becomes one of their favorites~ On the whole, all the actors and actresses should be com- mended on their ability to assume more than one role. It is through this versatility that their talentis best exemplified. \The Good Doctor\ will be playing November 3rd through the 7th in the· Nott MemoriaL I highly recommend it as en- tertainment for an evening. Yearbook Cover Contest for Gamet 1982 $50 First Prize Submit all entries to Mrs. Marra in Student Activities by November 24th. William Ziskin, the \narrator is a consistent link between several acts in which the other actors play multiple roles. Dance W·orkshop By E. HOLTZMAN Beginning this Saturday, November 7, at 12:30 p.m., the Dance Club will be sponsoring a free jazz dance workshop. The workshop will meet every Saturday for. the remainde of the term, in the dance studio, Arts Building 202. The workshop wiU be taught by Annette Genovese, trained in ballet, Afro-American and jazz dancing. Ms. Genovese, who received a BA in dance from William Paterson College in Wayne, New Jersey, will be instructing in the Luigi Jazz technique. Union College Concert Committee and Budweiser present An evening of music and da_nce November 23rd ill Alumni Gym The Go-Go's THIS WEEK ON WRUC -Saturday, 10 p.m.--Saturday night concert series presents Bow Wow Wow, an hour of music and conversation with the RCA recording artists. --Sunday, 8-11 p.m.--The Jeff Mitchell Magical 42nd St. Cruise, 3 hours of explicit sex films with music to match. It's worth getting off on. --Tuesday, 2-5 p.m.--The Sebastian Show, 3 hours of rock that will satisfy even the most pretentious audiophile. It's worth living ·tor! --WRUC is looking for talented people to design a WRUC logo. The logo must contain the followi11Q: WRUC, 90.9 FM, Schenectady, N.Y. The due date is Nov. 10. All entries become the property of WR UC and the best one will receive a cash prize. Pall Barv.t1st 01 Hlluesl DAY SALE Nov-ember 9 through November 13

Page 6 OONOOBDlliJNSIS, November 5, 1981· Editorials Letters You C.an Lead A Horse ToW ater Webster's Dictionary explains that the Latin roots of the word \subpoena''' mean literally \under penalty.\ That's how witnesses would feel if the Conduct Committee were granted subpoena power. 'The.re are important ramifications to consider if the Conduct Committee should ever receive this power. It was recently denied recommendation by the Student Affairs Committee (·see article p. 1). The decision was an importantone, and one that we strongly endorse. The Conduct Committee is an \in-house\ committee made up solely of students. There is only one faculty advisor, (Assistant Dean of Students, Mike Andolina) and he has no vote in the Committee. They hear primarily student- related cases. Once the Committee has the power to force students to appear, much of the inherent feeling of being granted a trial by one's peers is inhibited. A major problem in giving the Conduct Committee the power of subpoena is the resulting power to enforce that responsibility. What sort of penalty could the Committee ievy should a person not appear after the request has been made? This is a very serious question and one that does not appear to have a workable solution. There is the additional problem of collecting fines, should that be the solution. Punishment should not be meted out to someone who has already been in an agonizing position. The Conduct Committee has a very important responsibtuty here at Union. In no way should the denial of subpoena power be viewed as lack of confidence in the Committee. The Committee must, however, keep in mind what they are, and what they are supposed to do. They are often in a position where there is conflict between what they feel it is that they should do and what they know they must do. Handing down judgment is never easy, and we can appreciate their desire for a · means of obtaining facts that will aid them in their decision making. We must question, though, If by issuing a subpoena the Conduct Committee is itself violating the rights of other students on cam;pus. The situation is on the verge of becoming a desperate one. Incidents that would warrant the attention of the Conduct Committee are not being brought before them because students are scared to testify. We must decide as a community to stand up for our basic rights if they are violated, and the violator must be punished so that our community will be safer. Recent incidents have not been minor ones. They are incidents that should concern us all. Granting the Conduct Committee subpoena power would not curb the apparently worsening situation on campus. What must happen is that we must decide that under no cir- cumstances will we allow any individual who violates the rights of others to go unpunished Staff Sensitivity Over the past couple of months, the cleaning service staff of Union College has been working harder (see article p. 1). There has been a redistribution and reorganization of the workload which includes the movement of some of the night workers to the day shift. This seems, superficially, to be a very smart anq productive change. Unfortunately, as a result of these alterations, many of the workers feel that they are being overworked, are reluctant to speak out of fear of losing their jobs. For many of the people, some of whom have been working at the college for over ten years, the present working conditions are almost in- tolerable, and some are considering retiring before their scheduled dates._ We appreciate the fact that Mr. Hill and Mr. Paige are trying to make the staff more efficient, and as a result feel the need to make changes. This is ve:ry commendable. This is not the issue, however, because we know that they have only the best of intentions. The issue is the manner in which they have effected the changes which they deem necessary. Perhaps it is a tactical error to make so many changes in the scheduling and work habits of the staff so quickly. It shows a certain degree of insensitivity in terms of the feelings of the people who have devoted many years of service to the College, and whose who will be With the College for many years to com.e. Sudden change, whether good or bad, is difficul.t to accept and handle. Given this fact, the workers should have been handled in a more considerate manner. The fact is that these workers are unhappy, feel exploited and are afraid to voice their objections. It is the responsibility of the administration and super- visory staff to meet with the women and men who work in this capacity, and allow them t() air their complaints. They deserve more cou:rte.sy and con- sideration based on their collective years of experience, and by virtue of their positions as employees of Union College. · Action must be taken by Mr. Hill and Mr. Paige to try and achieve a balance between what they expect and what the workers feel they can deliver. With a bit of open, honest communication without the presence of threat or job loss looming about, a lot can be accomplished. We feel confident in the fact that this issue will be acted upon as it is a shame that a portion of the working force of our college, one that does so much for the students and staff, should-be tre~ted in such a manner. \Labor .is prior to, and independent o.f, capital. Capital is onl.r the .fruit o.f labor, and could never have existed ~f labor had riot .first existed. Labor is the superior o.f capital, and deserves much higher consideration.\ Abrah-am Lincoln First Annual Message to Con~ress (December 3; 1861) Ed\tors-in-Chief ·Managing Editor Associate Managing Editor News Editors · Features Editor Arts & Features Editor Associate Arts & Features Editor Campus Page Editors Rachel I. Mandel, Paul Grossman Julie Isgro Diane Pavacic Naomi Blank, Ed Albro Judi Lee Chervenak· · BobFox Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards · Sports Editors Jay McDennott, Rob Norton · Assistant Sports Editor Drew Hurley • Women'sSports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Photo Editor Mindy Broser · Sports Photo Editor Steve Lerner Cartoonists David Neiblum, Lisa Snyder 'Staff Saul Berley, Alan Binkow, Nonnan Birnbach, · Dan Booth, Thomas. Ching, Regina Gough, Barton Hill Levine, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr-, Mark Mortenson, 1 D.C. Owens, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Michael Sharp, A.A. Terhune Business Staff Jennifer Amler, Evelyn Gurdin \ Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III .Photo Staff Jane Cavalier, Janet Giuliano, · 1 . NormPflaster, Robert Tang, LindaWallent CONCORDmNSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady~ New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc.,· 11 Division Street, Si4Dey, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in, .the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription\ 'rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United .States. . CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB).

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, November 5, 1981 Editorials Letters You Can Lead A Horse ToW ater Webster's Dictionary explains that the Latin roots of the word \subpoena\ mean literally \under penalty.'' That's how witnesses would feel if the Conduct Committee were granted subpoena power. There are important ramifications to consider if the Conduct Committee should ever receive this power. It was recently de11ied recommendation by the Student Affairs Committee (see article p. 1). The decision was an important one, and one that we strongly endorse. The Conduct Committee is an \in-house\ committee made up solely of students. There Is only one faculty advisor, (Assistant Dean of Students, Mike Andolina) and he has no vote in the Committee. They hear primarily student- related cases. Once the Committee has the power to force students t'b appear, much of the inherent feeling of being granted a trial by one's peers is inhibited. A major :problem in giving the Conduct Committee the power of subpoena is the resulting power to enforce that responsibility. What sort of penalty could the Committee levy should a person not appear after the request has been made? This is a very serious question and one that does not appear to have a workable solution. There is the additional problem of collecting fines. should that be the solution. Punishment should not be meted out to someone who has already been in an agonizing position. The Conduct Committee has a very important responsibility here at Union. In no way should the denial of subpoena power be viewed as lack of confidence in the Committee. The Committee must, however, keep in mind what they are, and what they are supposed to do. They are often in a position where there is conflict between wh.at they feel it is that they should do and what they know they must do. Handing down judgment is never easy, and we can appreciate their desire for a means of obtatning facts that will aid them in their decision making. We must question, though, if by issuing a subpoena the Conduct Committee is itself violating the rights of other students on campus. The situation is on the verge of becoming a desperate one. Incidents that would warrant the attention of the Conduct Committee are not being brought before them because students are scared to testify. We must decide as a community to stand up for our basic rights if they are violated, and the violator must be punished so that our community will be safer. Recent incidents have not been minor ones. They are incidents that should concern us all. Granting the Conduct Committee subpoena power would not curb the apparently worsening situation on campus. What must happen is that we must decide that under no cir- cumstances will we allow any individual who violates the rights of others to go unpunished. Staff Sensitivity Over the past couple of months, the cleaning service staff of Union College has been working harder (see article p. 1). There has been a redistribution and reorganization of the workload which includes the movement of some of the night workers to the day shift. This seems, superficially, to be a very smart anq productive change. Unfortunately, as a result of these alterations, many of the workers feel that they are being overworked, are reluctant to speak out of fear of losing their jobs. For many of the people, some of whom have been working at the college for over ten years, the present working conditions are almost in- tolerable, and some are considering retiring before their scheduled dates. We appreciate the fact that Mr. Hill and Mr. Paige are trying to make the staff more efficient, and as a result feel the need to make changes. This is very commendable. This is not the issue, however, because we know that they have only the best of intentions. The issue is the manner in which they have effected the changes which they deem necessary. Perhaps it is a tactical error to make so many changes in the scheduling and work habits of the staff so quickly. It shows a certain degree of insensitivity in terms of th~ feelings of the people who have devoted many years of service to the College, and whose who will be with the College for many years to come. Sudden change, whether good or bad, is difficult to accept and handle. Given this fact, the workers should have been handled in a more considerate manner. The fact is that these workers are unhappy, feel exploited and are afraid to voice their objections. It is the responsibility of the administration and super- visory staff to meet with the women and men who work in this capacity, and allow them to air their complaints. They deserve more courtesy and con- sideration based on their collective years of experience, and by virtue of their positions as employees of Union College. · Action must be taken by Mr. Hill and Mr. Paige to try and achieve a balance between what they expect and what the workers feel they can deliver. With a bit of open, honest communication without the presence of threat or job loss looming about, a l()t can be accomplished. We feel confident in the fact that this issue will be acted upon as it is a shame that a portion of the working force of our college, one that does so much for the students and staff, should be treated in such a manner. \Labor is prior to, and independent o.f., capital. Capital is onl_r thr .frllit of labor, and could never have existed ~f labor had not .first existed. Labor i..l9 the superior o.f capital, and deserves much higher consideration.'' Abraham Lincoln First Annual Message to Con~ress (December 3, 1861) L. R~.:.4r:l).;···. ,. Cl . \''(fll~ •· 0 • Flag Respect Overdue To the Campus Community: It was brought to my attention recently that Union College was committing a grave injustice to one of our most cherished American institutions-the U.S. FLAG. As some of you may know there is a code of etiquette for the display and use of the U.S. Flag .. And in that code it is stated that the flag is to be displayed from sunrise to stmset, however it may be displayed at night but itc_should he lighted. Maybe you \'aaven 't noticed but the flag on Union College flies r(lund-the~clock, unlighted. On the afternoon of Thursday, October 22, I spoke with Officer Chadwick of Security where ~ was both appalled and disgusted to find out that it was Union College policy to fly the flag 24 hours, unlighted. According to Chadwick, they were tmaware or misinformed about the rules stating that the flag should be illuminated at night. He did say be wnuld look into the matter and would get back to me. · Within a week I was told by Chadwick that Union had· decided toer.ect a spotlight so that the flag would be properly illuminated. Hopefully by the time of the printing of this letter construction of the spotlight will be underway. I would like to commend Chadwick and anyone else involved in rec- tifying this situation. The flag is the symbol of our country. To show it anything but the proper respect it deserves is sacrilege in my book. Respect the flag and what it stands for. Without the freedom which the red, white, and blu.e symbolizes, we <tone or Ed\tors-in-Chief Managing Editor Associate Managing Editor News Editors Features Editor Arts & Features Editor Associate Arts & Features Editor Campus Page Editors have nothing. Sincerely, Joseph P. Maneen, Jr. U. Views Apologies To the Members of the Union College Community, As Editors-in-Chief of Union Views, there were some inac- curacies and mistakes present in the previous issue of Union Views which we would like to apologize for. We cannot ob- viously eradicate those problems, but simply try to protect those wh(}se feelings may have been hurt. Primarily, we apologize to the Editors·in:.Chief of Con- dordiensis, Paul Grossman and Rachel Mandel, for an un-- fortunate but inadvertent wQrding o.f the question: llHow do you feel when looking at a past CONCORDIENSIS and compare it to what some people may call a more inferior product today.'; The question shoul4 have read, \How do you compare old issues of CON~ COJt,DJENSIS with the present product Y\ Whether or not we felt the question was stated as such or whether Mr. GrQssman and~or .Miss Mandel can prove on their taped versiun of the interview that it was $tated <iifferently is t:eally of no great importance. What is imperative is that Mr. Grossman and Miss Man<iel realize that any inac* curacy· was not deliberate nor meant to slight their own paper. The intention of Union Views to· maintttin amicable and friendly. relationships with the personnel of CQNCORDIENSlS is un* deniable and continues to be as Continued on page '1 bltnst~ Rachel I. Mandel, Paul Grossman Julie Isgro Diane Pavacic Naomi Blank, Ed Albro Judi Lee Chervenak. Bob Fox Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Sports Editors Jay McDermott, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Drew Hw-ley Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Photo Editor Mindy Broser Sports Photo Editor Steve Lerner Cartoonists David Neiblum, Lisa Snyder Staff Saul Berley, Alan Binkow, NonnanBirnbach, Dan Booth, Thomas Ching, Regina Gough, Barton Hill Levine, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Mark Mortenson, D.C. Owens, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Michael Sharp, A.A. Terhune Business Staff Jennifer Arnler, Evelyn Gurdin \Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III Photo Staff Jane Cavalier, Janet Giuliano, . 1 Norm Pflaster, Robert Tang, Linda Wallen 1 CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in. the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription·' 'rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United .States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). (

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, November 5, 1981 · Editorials Letters ~ Colllme11tary You Can L,ead A Horse ToW ater Webster's Dictionary explains that the Latin roots of the word \subpoena\ mean literally ''under penalty.\ That's how witnesses would feel if the Conduct Committee were granted subpoena power. There are important ramifications to consider if the Conduct Committee should eve'r receive this power. It was recently denied recommendation by the Student Affairs Committee (see article p. 1). The decision was an important one., and one tll.at we strongly endorse. The Conduct Committee is an \in..:house'' committee made up solely of students. There is only one faculty advisor, (Assistant Dean of Students, Mike Andolina) and he has no vote in the Committee. They hear primarily student- related cases. Once the Committee has the power to force students tb appear, much of the inherent feeling of being granted a trial by one's peers is inhibited. A major problem in giving the Conduct Committee the power of subpoena is the resulting power to enforce that responsibility. What sort of penalty could the Committee levy should a person not appear after the request has been made? This is a very serious question and one that does not appear to have a workable solution. There is the additional problem of collecting fines, should that be the solution. Punishment should not be meted out to someone who has already been in an agonizing position. The Conduct Committee has a very important responsibility here at Union. In no way should the denial of subpoena power be viewed as lack of confidence in the Committee. The Committee must, however, keep in mind what they are, and what they are supposed to do. They are often in a position where there is conflict between what they feel it is that they should do and what they know they must do. Handing down judgment is never easy, and we can appreciate their desire fora means of obtaining facts that will aid them in their decision making. We must question, though, if by issuing a subpoena the Conduct Committee is itse'lf violating the rights of other students on campus. The situation is on the verge of becoming a desperate one. Incidents that would warrant the attention of the Conduct Committee are not being brought before them because students are scared to testify. We must decide as a community to stand up for our basic rights if they are violated, and the violator must be punished so that our community will be safer. Recent incidents have not been minor ones. They are incidents that should concern us all. Granting the Conduct Committee subpoena power would not curb the apparently worsening situation on campus. What must happen is that we must decide that under no ci-r- cumstances will we allow any individual who violates the rights of others to go unpunished. Staff Sensitivity Over the past couple of months, the cleaning service staff of Union College has been working harder (see article p. 1). There ll.as been a redistribution and reorganization of the workload which includes the movement of some of the night workers to the day shift. This seems, superficially, to be a very smart anq productive change. Unfortunately, as a result of these alterations, many of the workers feel that they are being overworked, are reluctant to speak out of fear of losing their jobs. For many of the people, some of whom have been working at the college for over ten years, the present working conditions are almost in- tolerable, and some are considering retiring before their scneduled dates._ We appreciate the fact that Mr. Hill and Mr. Paige are trying to make the staff more efficient, and as a result feel the need to make changes. This is very commendable. This is not the issue, however, because we know that they have only the best of intentions. The issue is the manner in which they have effected the changes which they deem necessary. Perhaps it is a tactical error to make so many changes in the scheduling and work habits of the staff so quickly. It shows a certain degree of insensitivity in terms of the feelings of the people who have devoted many years of service to the College, and whose who will be with the College for many years to come. Sudden change, whether good or bad, is difficult to accept and handle. Given this fact, the workers should have been handled in a more considerate manner. The fact is that these workers are unhappy, feel exploited and are afraid to voice their objections. It is the responsibility of the administration and super- visory staff to meet with the women and men who work in this capacity, and allow them to air their complaints. They deserve more courtesy and con- sideration based on their collective years of experience, and by virtue of their positions as employees of Union College. · Action must be taken by Mr. Hill and Mr. Paige to try and achieve a balance between what they expect and what the workers feel they can deliver. With a bit of open, honest communication without the presence of threat or job loss loomin.g about, a lot can be accomplished. We feel confident in the fact that this issue will be acted upon as it is a shame that a portion of the working force of our college, one that does so much for the students and staff, should-be tre~ted in such a manner. \Labor is prior to, and independent o.f, capital. Capital is onl.Y the .fruit o.f labor, and could never have existed ~f labor had not .first existed. Labor is the superior o.f capital, and deserves much higher consideration.\ Abraham Lincoln First Annual MessaAe to Congress ~December 3~ 1861) Ed\_tors-in-Chief ·Managing Editor Associate Managing Editor NewsEditors · Features Editor Arts & Features Editor Associate Arts & Features Editor Campus Page Editors Rachel I. Mandel, Paul Grossman Julie Isgro Diane Pavacic Naomi Blank, Ed Albro Judi Lee Chervenak· · BobFox Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Sports Editors Jay McDermott, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Drew Hurley Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Photo Editor Mindy Broser Sports Photo Editor Steve Lerner Cartoonists David Neiblum, Lisa Snyder 'Staff SaulBerley, AlanBinkow, NormanBirnbach, Dan Booth,. Thomas Ching, Regina Gough, Barton Hill Levine, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mom, Mark Mortenson, 1 D. C. Owens, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Michael Sharp, A.A. Terhune BusinessStaff Jennifer Amler, Evelyn Gordin \Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III .Photo Staff Jane Cavalier, Janet Giuliano, · 1 Nonn Pflaster, Robert Tang, Linda Wallen' CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union Cnnege, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady 1 New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc.,: 11 DivisionStreet, Siqney, New York13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in. .the Schenectady Post Office as tbird class matter. Subscription· 'rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United .States. . CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB).

m ro ic ro lk· )X in ia is m ~y, t:Z er er er h, e, n,l d, 1e in II o,. m' nt rk 11 in~ >n te ,), Closin~ Thouphts: ·Page 7 Letters Editorials From Where I s~tand: .Campus Insecure Ry ALAN BINKO'W This week's column is an the security of Union College campus. It should be noted, however, that this is not an article <;!riticizing the Security Patrel; it is merely a look at the campus where it is in need of security, and what I feel can be done about it. Obviously, the area that most needs attention is the safety of walking on campus at night. As I see it, this problem breaks down into four areas: 1.) Inadequate lighting; 2) . Acfessability of the campus to off-campus.persons; 3) Scarcity of on-campus phones; and 4) People walking alone. Each one of these \sub-problems\ · deserves special attention. 1) Inadequate lighting. As an experiment, I attempted to get from Fox Dorm to Hickock House without falling into any major lighting (except at the doors to the two buildings). I succeeded, much to my amazement. I then attempted to get entirely through the campus the other way, roughly from Richmond to Lamont House. I succeeded again.· I also discovered several areas of concern: a. The area between North behind. Particularly on the Library Field side (toward West), someone could jump out and pull a passerby in withhout being seen. In my twenty minutes there, three people passed; again, nobody saw me. c. The area around the flagpole is very poorly lit. And yet, most people going from Fox, Davidson, South, and Webster toN orth and Richmond walk straight across here withhout even looking around. This route is especially travelled when there are parties at the fraternities. Obviously, the solutions to these problems are to light the areas in question, and to exercise more caution in traversing them. But these are only the worst areas; there are many others. The only practical solution is to avoid walking in these areas alone, or indeed anywhere on campus alone. But I will deal with that concept later. has an on-campus phone, but it is locked. Carnegie only has pay phones, and it gets locked around 2:30. The Skeller is closed. Actually, the nearest accessible on-campus phone is in South or North, which is a good long ways to run, es pee ially if you're being chased. Is there, then, a solution? O.bviously, I am not suggesting putting on·campus phones uut in the open; they would just get vandalized. But how about putting them in Carnegie, and Social Science, and the dorms? It doesn't even necessarily need to be a full phone; just a \hot line\ to security would suffice. A system of fire-alarm-type call boxes could also be installed, in the more dangerous areas. Of course, the responsibility must aRain fall on the students shoulders; to know where the call stations are, to use them wisely (no pressing the buttons for the hell of it, tee.); but these measures would also be helpful to the general feeling of safety. I would also recommend swit- ching the phones in the All- Night Study to hot lines, since they are there to call security and are used to call friends. Our Friends? - College and the Arts Building is not well lit, is isolated and is occasionally traveled by North residents. In the space of twenty minutes that I spent there, exactly four people walked by. Nobody saw me. Five minute intervals is more than enough time to jump someone and get out. 2) Accessability of the campus by off-campus persons. There are at least four ways to get from off-campus to the area behind North without being seen. Unfortunately, the only way that I see to prevent this would be to ring the campus by barbed wire and armed guards, and I do not see that as practical in the least. The only security in this reagard can come from the students here. If they see a \townie\ roaming the campus, they should call security. Of course, all this would cost the col!ege money; but in my opinion, it would be worth it. 4) People walk alone. This is entirely the student's fault. There is an escort service, and it is rarely used. My only concern is that, with all the publicity the service has had in the past few days, it will be overloaded with requests. But I think it is unlikely. I urge people to use it. By DANIEL ROSENFl~LD . According · to President Reagan, it would be a show of bad faith if the United States did not sell the AWACS to Saudia Arabia. He suggested that if the United States gave Saudia Arabia what they wanted then they would be nice in return. So, the United States was nice and the sale was allowed to proceed. The Saudis, anxious to reciprocate, raised the price of oil and cut production-les than one week after the sale of the AWACS did not have anything to do with the price increase, but then that is the problem-ithe Saudis were not considerate-- they should not have raised the prices nor should they have cut production. The fact is that the United States tried, again, to be friends. The Saudis played the game just long enough to get the AWACS. At least they waited two days before announcing the At'\.S:REECAI'ol S \J\L. S.oo N A-ri ~I<. I)S, v \S NVC.!-GAR VE APQ 1\J S ! pnce mcrease. Once again, a lesson in the perils of buying friends for the United States; as for the Saudis, they are doing quite well for themselves. Now there is talk of the possibility of the United States establishing a military air base within Saudi territory. Undoubtedly the United States will pay handsomely for this right. Of course, the United States will equip and maintain the base, and naturally, if and when the United States ever wants to utilize the base for operations that the Saudis might not like, the U.S. will not be allowed to do so. Obviously the base will be of tremendous strategic value because of it's location. Of course we will not have accessto it, if and when we need it without the Saudi's permission. This, according' to Reagan of course, won't be a problem, the Saudis will be our friends ... b. The area around the Nott Memorial is well lit, But there is a low hedge with a pathway behind it that anybody could be 3) Scarcity of on-campus phones. Suppose you were at- tacked on the West side of the Nott. Further, suppose it is late. Suppose you manage to break free of your attacker. Where do you run to? The Arts Building Elections for the position of Editor-in- Chief of Concordiensis for the winter and spring terms will be held on Tuesday, Navember 17 at 8:30pm. All interested persons should submit their names to Mrs. Lorraine Marra iin· Student Activities Office before that time. · 1'\1-'\E.R P\tESIOiiN\t ,SI~. 1'1-tE.. RIJ SS I ftN S 1\\ IGI-\\1' L.\'UNC.I'l td'-'~L..EAR 1'\LSS.\1-E S ANI! TIKI;: \I)OW - S.~ou~o. 0 \;!.)\:, ~G:PttR..E Fo\ A <:.oufo.'IE~- ~TTAC.I<.? h·tl The other area of concern is the access of off-campus people to the dorms. This comes as a result of our habit of propping the dorms to admit friends, Domino's, etc. Obviously, the solution is to not prop the doors, but we aren't about to stop doing that. Our Union friends couldn't get in. However, the result is that people have been surprised and attacked inside the dorms. What would happen if every Union College room key opened every dorm? Now, I am not suggesting that Richmond and North do away with their security systems; this idea functions in- dependently of them. But my guess is that the doors would not be propped open, and that c student would look more closel~ at the person who waits by the door for someone with a ke• before letting them in. It i.; foolish to pretend that this would solve the problem; however, it is equally foolish to suppose that the problem v ill just go away with time. I maintain that this is the m st practical solution. You will notice that every point mentioned in this column involves the idea ihat the students need to get more in- volved. This is the main focus of the article. I feel that, when I see someone walking alone at night, male or female. their unconcern only contributes to the lack of security. It would be much easier if we all just cooperated a little; walked a little out of our way to stay in safer areas, walked with someone (or more than one someone), etc. It is a known fact that crime tends to go where the \pickings are easy\. Maybe if we make it less easy, it will convince crime to leave.

n n tt n 0 )~ e 0 :s n '0 .c '0 k· X n a Is n y ~z :r :r if 1, > -· 1, l, e n I ), nl lt ·k J n. ~n·~ te ,, \ t OONOORDIENSIS, November 5, 1981 Page 7 Letters Editorials from Where I S·tand: .Letters .Campus Insecure Continued from page 6 such. We hope · this misun· derstanding does not impinge on the cooperative relationship between the -two papers. Secondly, we apologize to one person who felt that he or she was quoted out of contert or merely misrepresented at times in the Article \Terms Abroad at Union Explored.\ This was not the fault of Tom Megerian, the author, but of the editorial board for failing to convey to Mr. Megerian the wishes and requests of that interviewee. Howev£r, in support of Mr. Megerian and our entire staff, that the artide contained nothing but factual information. The fact that some portions contained comments adversial t<> what we all would like to hear i.s simply a consequence of circumstance, and on Mr. Megerian's part, solid inw vestigative journalism. Once again, we sincerely apologize to that person who informed us of the errors made. It is not <Jur desire to misrepresent or slander the pel\sons being interviewed or the general college community. We boast a reputation of ac~ curate and prQfessinnal jour~ nalism. However, due to the Closing Thouphts: fact tbat w-e refuse to conceal the faeU! even at the risk of \letting the cat out {)f th~ bag/' we will ~ontinue to investigate and rep(>rt news in basically the same raa11ner a2 always. We will lean hessons unfortunately at the expense of others, but unf{)rtuaately .. journalism lends itself to. tllese problems. For this is what an edueation is all about. · Mark Klaiman Doug Silverstein Editors~in-Chief Union Views We, t.il&, l:mve the strongest desire to maintain · a \coope ra 1iv- e'• relationship, between the papers, and we appreci'ate the retraction by Unioll Views. We eannot, bowe'VeT, agNe tbat our tape Gf what was actually said in the mteniew is of \no great im- portanee.'\' h.. journalist should bold wllat Is said on tape as inviolate. By ALAN BINKOW This week's column is on the sec1:1rity of Union College campus. It should be noted, however, that this is not an article criticizing the Security Patrol; it is merely a look at the campus where it is in need of security, and what I feel can be done about it Obviously, the area that most needs attention is the safety of walking on campus at night. As I see it, this problem breaks down into four areas: 1) Inadequate lighting; 2) Acfessability of the campus to off-campus persons; 3) Scarcity of on-campus phones; and 4) People walking alone. Each one of these \sub-pr0blems\ deserves special attention. 1) Inadequate lighting. As an experiment, I attempted to get from Fox Dorm to Hickock House without falling into any major lighting (except at the doors to the two buildings). I succeeded, much to my amazement. I then attempted to get entirely through the campus the other way, roughly from Richmond to Lamont House. I succeeded again. I also discovered several areas of concern: behind. Particularly on the Library Field side !toward West), someone could jump out and pull a passerby in withhout being seen. In my twenty minutes there, three peopk passed; again, nobody saw me. c. The area around the flagpole is very poorly lit. And yet, most people going from Fox, Davidson, South, and Webster to North and Richmond walk straight across here withhout even looking around. This route is especially travelled when there are parties at the fraternities. Obviously, the solutions to these problems are to light the areas in question, and to exercise more caution in traversing them. But these are only the worst areas; there are many others. The only practical solution is to avoid walking in these areas alone, or indeed anywhere on campus alone. But I will deal with that concept later. Our Friends? a. The area between North College and the Arts Building is not well lit, is isolated and is occasionally traveled by North residents. In the space of twenty minutes that I spent there, exactly four people walked by. Nobody saw me. Five minute intervals is more than enough time to jump someone and get out. 2) Accessability of the campus by off-campus persons. There are at least four ways to get from off-campus to the area behind North without being seen. Unfortunately, the only way that I see to prevent this would be to ring the campus by barbed wire and armed guards, and I do not see that as practical in the least. The only security in this reagard can come from the students here. If they see a \townie\ roaming the campus, they should call security. By DANIEL ROSENFIELD According to President Reagan, it would be a show of bad faith if the United States did not sell the AWACS to Saudia Arabia. He suggested that if the United States gave Saudia Arabia what they wanted then they would be nice in return. So, the United States was nice and the sale was allowed to proceed. The Saudis, anxious to reciprocate, raised the price of oil and cut production-les than one week after the sale of the AWACS did not have anything to do with the price increase, but then that is the problem-the Saudis were not considerate- they should n0t have raised the prices nor should they have cut production. The fact is that the United States tried, again, to be friends. The Saudis played the game just long enough to get the AWACS. At least they waited two days before announcing the II.M.ER'EECAtli S \J\L. S.oON PitT A<.t<. I)S. V lS NVC.i..I:AR Vi: APO NS ! price increase. Once again, a lesson in the perils of buying friends. for the United States ; as for the Saudis, they are doing quite well for themselves. Now ther-e is talk of the possibUlty of the United States establishing a military air base withln Saudi terrltory. Undoulltedly the United States will pay handsomely for this right. Of course, the United States will equip and maintain the base, and naturally, if and when the United States ever wants to utilize the base for operatio11s that the Saudis might not like, the U.S. will not be allowed to do so. Obviously the base will be of tremendous strateglc value because of it's locatit>n. Of course we wlll not have access to it, if and when we need it without the Saudi's permission. This, according to Reagan of course, won't be a problem, the Saudis will be our friends ... b. The area around the Nott Memorial is well lit, But there is a low hedge with a pathway behind it that anybody could be 3) Scarcity of on-campus phones. Suppose you were at- tacked on the West side of the Nott. Further, suppose it is late. Suppose you manage to break free of your attacker. Where do you run to? The Arts Building Elections for the position of Editor-in- Chief of Concordiensis for the winter and spring terms will be held on Tuesday, November 17 at 8:30pm. All interested persons should submit their names to Mrs. lorraine Marra in Student Activities OHice before that time. r-. '-''E.~ Plt'ES \Ill:. Ill i • ~I R 0 \lo{E, R,IJSS 11\t.JS M.l,lot't' 1..1\UNC.I-l 1-JUCL.EAR 1'\l.S:!.\~E S AN'( Tl~E l-)OW- $.1.1.01>\..0 \N~ t:>iti;;.PAR..E 'FD R A toi.JI'J' TE fl.· ATiAC.I<. ? l\-tl has an on-campus phone, but it is lucked. Carnegie only has pay phones, and it gets lock('d around 2:30. The Skeller is closed. Actuallv, the nearest accessible on-campus phone is in South or North, which ls 3 good long ways to run. especially if you're being chased. I~ then·. tht>n. <l solution'' Obviousl:o.·, am not suggesting putting on-campus phones <JUt in thl' open: they would just get vandalized. But how about putting them in Carnegie, and Social S(·ience. and the dorms? It doesn't even necessarily need to be a full phone; just a \hot line\ t<' security would suffice. A system of fire~alarm-type ca 11 boxes could also be installed, in the more dangerous areas. Of course, the responsibllity must again fall on the students shoulders; to know where the call stations are, to use them wisely 1 no presslng the buttons for the hell of it, tee. l; but these measures would also be helpful to the general feeling of safety. I would also recommend swit- ching the phones in the All- Night Study to hot lines, since they are there to call security and are used to call friends. Of course, all this would cost the college money; but in my opinion, it would be worth it. 4) People walk alone. This ls entirely the student's fault. There is an escort service, and it is rarely used. My only concern is that, with all the publicity the service has had in the past few days, it will be overloaded with requests. But I think it is unlikely. I urge people to use it. The other area of concern ls the access of off-campus people to the dorms. This comes as a result of our habit of propping the dorms to admit friends, Domino's, etc. Obviously, the solution is to not prop the doors, but we aren't about to stop doing that. Our Union friends couldn't get in. However, the result is that people have been surprised and attacked lnside the dorms. What would happen if every Union College room key opened even dorm'? Now, I am not suggesting that Richmond and North do away with their security systems; this idea functions in- dependently of them. But my guess is that the doors would not be propped open, and that < student would look more closel) at the person who waits by the door for someone with a ke· before letting them in. It i, foolish to pretend that this would solve the problem; however, it is equally foolish to suppose that the problem \' 1ll just go away with time I maintain that this is the n• st practical solution. You will notice that ~very point mentioned in this collilnn involves the idea 1 hat t hl~ students need to get more in- volved. This is the main focus of the article. I feel that, when 1 see someone walking alone at night, male or female. their unconcern only contributes t<l the lack of security. It would be much easier if we all just cooperated a little: walked a little out of our way to stay ln safer areas. walked with someone (or more than one someone), etc. It is a known fact that crime tends to go where the \pickings are easy\. Mayl>e if we make it less easy, it will convince crime to leave.

i3I1 ~ro r:ic lfO tak· 'ox ein 1ia ·ds ;on ley icz ;er 1er ler ili, :te, >n,[ ld, ne lin III 10, .ent mt ,rk 11 1 in. ion· ;be S), ·Page 7 Letters Editorials from Where I s~tand: .Campus Insecure Closing Thougkts: By ALAN BINKOW Tllis week's column is on the security ef Union College campus. It should be noted, however, that this is not an article criticizing the Security Patrol; it is merely a look at the campus where it is in need of security, and what I feel can be done about It. Obviously, the area that most needs attention is the safety of walking on ·campus at night. As I see it, this problem breaks down into four areas: 1) Inadequate lighting; 2) Acfessability of the campus to off-campus persons; 3) Scarcity of on-campus phones; and 4) People walking alone. Each one of these \sub-problems\·· deserves, special attention. 1) Inadequate lighting. As an experiment, I attempted to gel from Fox: Dorm to Hickock House without falling into any major lighting (except at the doors to the two buildings). I succeeded, much to my amazement. I then attempted to get entirely through the campus the other way, roughly from Richmond to Lamont House. I succeeded again: I also discovered several areas of concern: . a. The area between North behind. Particularly on the Library Field side (toward West), someane could jump out and pull a passerby in withhout being seen. In my twenty minutes there, three people passed; again, nobody saw me. c. The area around the flagpole is very poorly lit. And yet, most people going from Fox, Davidson, South, and Webster to North and Richmond walk straight across here withhout even looking around. This route is especially travelled when there are parties at the fraternities. Obviously, the solutions to these problems are to light the areas in question, and to ex:ercise more caution in traversing them. But these are only the worst areas; there are many others. The only practical solution is to avoid walking in these areas alone, or indeed anywhere on campus alone. But I will deal with that concept later. Our Friends? · College and the Arts Building is not well lit, is isolated and is occasionally traveled by North residents. In the space of twenty minutes that I spent there, exactly four people walked by. Nobody saw me. Five minute intervals is more than enough time to jump someone and get out. 2) Accessability of the campus by off-campus persons. There are at least four ways to get from off-campus to the area behind North without being seen. Unfortunately, the only way that I see to prevent this would be to ring the campus by barbed wire and armed guards, and I do not see that as practical in the least. The only security in this reagard can come from the students here. If they see a \townie'' roaming the campus, they should call security. By DANIEL ROSENFIE;.LI> . According · to President Reagan, it would be a shCJw of bad faith if the United States did not sell the AWACS to Saudia Arabia. He suggested that if tbe United States gave Saudia Arabia what they wanted then they would be nice in return. So, the United States was nice and the sale was allowed to proceed. The Saudis, anxious to reciprocate, raised the price of oil and cut production-les than one week after the sale CJf the AWACS did not have anything to do with the price increase, but then that is the problem-the Saudis were not considerate- they should not have raised .the prices nor should they nave cut production. The fact is that the United States tried, again, to be friends. The Saudis played the game just long enough to get the AWACS. At least they waited two days before announcillg the price increase. Once again, a lesson in the JJerils of buying friends for the United States; as for the Saudis,. they are doing quite well for themselves. Now there is talk of the possibility of tile United States establishing a EJ.ilitary air base within Sau.di territory. Undoubtedly tile United States will pay hamlsomely for fhis right. .Of colU'se, the United States will eq1.1ip and maintain the base, and naturally, if and when the United States ever wants to uti!Lze the base for operations that the Saudis might not like, .tlle U.S. will 11ot be allowed to do so. Obviously the base will be of tremendous strategic valuE because of it's location. Of cDurse we will not have access to it, if and when we need it with()ut the Saudi's permission. Tllis, according' to Reagan of course, won't be a problem, the Sau.dis will be ()Ur friends ... b. The area around the Nott Memorial is well lit, But there is a low hedge with a pathway behind it that anybody could l.Je 3) Scarcity of on-campus phones. Suppose you were at- tacked on the West side of the N ott. Further, suppose it is late. Suppose you manage to break free of your attacker. Where do you run to? The Arts Building Elections for the position of Editor-in- Chief of Concordiensis for the winter and spring terms will be held on Tuesday, November 17 at 8:30 pm. All interested persons should submit their names to Mrs. Le»rraine Marra in· Student Activities Office before that time. 1\\l!.IER PRE·MIC.tt. ,·II\Eic ~AvE P-\:.1\-~('1 TO BEL.' E \IE ~AT ~ l:E: . 1'\\Si\E.R. P't~:ES\I)i;.N'T I ~IR. IH.'E.. R~.SS.IIIIoto!S t\\IG-Iol.'1' L.fti)NC.M loJIICt..EI\R t\\S!>II ... 'c S fi,N'f Tlf'\1; NOW - S.~o o.a. o l,o.)E, ~~PftRi:: AI'\ SR. E~C.I\N S \J IL. !.o o 1\.1 1\li~K \J~ VIS NVC-1-~AR V'C AP<> I'J.S ! Fl) R A C..~>Ut-Ti'E 1\.- A'T''fAC.,._ ?' ,, ... has an on-campus phone, but it is locked. Carnegie only has pay phones, and it gets locked aro11nd 2:30. The Skeller is closed. Actually, the nearest accessible on-campus phone is in South or North, which is a good long ways to run, especially if you're being chased. Is there, then, a solution? Obviouslv, I am not suggesting ·putting on-campus phones uut in the open; they would just get vandalized. But how about putting them in Carnegie, and Social Science, and the dorms? It doesn't even necessarily need to be a full phone; just a \hot line\ to security would suffice. A system of fire-alarm-type call boxes could also be installed, in the more dangerous areas. Of course, the responsibility must again fall on the students shoulders; to know where the call stations are, to use them wisely (no pressing the buttons for the hell of it, tee.); but these measures would also be helpful to the general feeling of safety. I woald also recommend swit· ching the phones in the All· Night Study to hot lines, since they are there to call security and are used to call friends. Of course, all this would cost the col!ege money; but in my opinion, it would be worth it. 4) People walk alone. This is entirely the student's fault. There is an escort service, and it is rarely used. My only concern is that, with all the publicity the service has had in the past few days, it will be overloaded with requests. But I think it is unlikely. I urge people to use it. Tlle other area of concern is the access of off-campus people to the dorms. This comes as a result of our habit of propping the dorms to admit friends, Domino's, etc. Obviously, the solution is to not prop the doors, but we aren't about to stop doing that. Our Union friends collldn't get in. However, the result is that people have been surprised and attacked inside the dorms. What would happen if every Union College room key opened every dorm? Now, I am not suggesting that Richmond and North do away with their security systems; this idea functions in- dependently of them. But my guess is that the doors would not be propped open, and that c student would look more closel~ at the person who waits by the door for someone with a ke• before letting them in. It i.; foolish to pretend that this would solve the problem; ho-wever, it is equally foolish to suppose that the problem ¥ill just go away with time. I maintain that this is the m st practical solution. You will notice that every point mentioned in this colmnn involves the idea that the students need to get more in· volved. This is the main focus of the article. I feel that, when I see someone walking alone at night, male or female. their unconcern only contributes to the lack of security. It would be much easier if we all just cooperated a little; walked a little out of our way to stay in safer areas, walked with someone (or more than one s()meone), etc. It is a known fact that crime tends to go where the \pickings are easy\. Maybe if we make it less easy, it will convince crime to leave.

Page 8 What's Happening This Week Friday 9 November 6 Photography, S.L., 10-5 p.m. Film, SS016, 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Mountebanks, Stage II, 7:30- 11 p.m. Tri-City-Folk Dancers, Arts - 202, 7:45-Midnight. Saturday, November 7 Film, SS016, 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Varsity Hockey vs. A.I.C., Achilles Rink, 8 p.m. Semi-formal Dance, Ramada . Inn, 9 p.m.-3 a.m. Sunday, November 8 Catholic Mass, S.L., 7:3o-9 p.m. Campus Protestant Ministry, S.L., 5:30-7:15 p.m. Big Brother-Big Sister, S.L., 12:30-3 p.m. Film, SS016, 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Monday, November 9 Student Forum, S.L., 7-10 p.m. Glee Club, Arts 202, 6:15-10:15 p.m. Concert Committee, S.L., 4:30-5:30 p.m. Mountebanks, Conference Room A, 7:30-11 p.m. TUesday,November10 Fencing, Arts 202, 8-10 p.m. Speaker Forum, M.C., T.B.A. Dance, Art 202, 5-7:30 p.m. Outing Club, S.L., 7:30-8:30 p.m. Counseling Center, Conf. Rm. 1, 7-9 p.m. Mountebanks, Stage II, 7:30- 11 p.m. Wednesday, November 11 Christian Fellowship, Fourth Floor Lounge, 4:30-5:30 p.m. Scuba Club, SS012, 7-9 p.m. Film, SS016, 7:30 and 10 p.m. Chess Club Fourth Floor Lounge, 8:30-Midnight Mountebanks, Conf. Rm. A, 7:30-11 p.m. Thursday, November 12 Bilogy Club, Conf. Rm. A, 4:30-5:30 p.m. Dance, S.L., 7-9 p.m. Student Affairs Council, Conf. Rm. A, 1:30-3 p.m. Mountebanks, Stage II, 7:30- 11 p.m. Fall Fling This Weekend Tickets on sale Now CONCOBDII!JN818, .November 6, 1981 Friday Nights • • • Continued from page 3 hour Sam's and Chopper, which we've all discovered, as well as, well, there's always Sam's and Chopper. Just because it closes at 6 p.m. every night is no reason to bust on the city. (''The only thing open at night is a mailbox\) . __ When the night is over, all that remains is a trip to your dorm room to see how creatively you can eJCplain to your sleeping roommate that the noise he heard is not a burglar-robber (\Who else would be coming in at 4:17?\. An~ of course, there's always the morning after. c I One AVAil firepl; Norm We wante with c: arran fern a Prefe Call I 6517. ~ De invit Soci Forr Satu hoc\~ will Sign Spir 0! 1981 Mu Assc a 50 the Sar1 Ter Rou pub SUp) the that

Page 8 What's Happening This Week Friday, November 6 Photography, S.L., 10-5 p.m. Film, SS016, 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Mountebanks, Stage II, 7:30- 11 p.m. Tri-City-Folk Dancers, Arts - 202, 7: 45-Midnight. Saturday, November 7 Film, SS016, 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Varsity Hockey vs. A.I.C., Achilles Rink, 8 p.m. Semi-formal Dance, Ramada . Inn, 9 p.m.-3 a.m. Sunday, November 8 Catholic Mass, S.L., 7:30-9 p.m. Campus Protestant Ministry, S.L., 5:30-7:15 p.m. Big Brother-Big Sister, S.L., 12:30-3 p.m. Film, SS016, 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Monday, November 9 Student Forum, S.L., 7-10 p.m. Glee Club, Arts 202,6:15-10:15 p.m. Concert Committee, S.L., 4:30-5:30 p.m. Mountebanks, Conference Room A, 7:30-11 p.m. Tuesday, November 10 Fencing, Arts 202, 8-10 p.m. Speaker Forum, M.C., T.B.A. Dance, Art 202, 5-7:30 p.m. Outing Club, S.L., 7:30-8:30 p.m. Counseling Center, Conf. Rm. 1, 7-9 p.m. Mountebanks, Stage II, 7:30- 11 p.m. Wednesday, November 11 Christian Fellowship, Fourth Floor Lounge, 4:30-5:30 p.m. Scuba Club, SS012, 7-9 p.m. Film, SS016, 7:30 and 10 p.m. Chess Club Fourth Floor Lounge, 8:30-Midnight Mountebanks, Conf. Rm. A, 7:30-11 p.m. Thursday, November 12 Bilogy Club, Conf. Rm. A, 4:30-5:30 p.m. Dance, S.L., 7-9 p.m. Student Affairs Council, Conf. Rm. A, 1:30-3 p.m. Mountebanks, Stage II, 7:30- 11 p.m. Fall Fling This Weekend Tickets on sale Now OONCORDIEN81S, NovemlJer 6, 1981 • Ices - . • ' 'b ... ... .) • .. Q~ \ ~ . - . \.. ~ (.. ,. • \ \'= ... ~\ J. .... .q\_ !1':_- .. HAPPY BIRTHDAY HILARY! Make it one of your.._ _________ _.., WTL-Things just ar.:Jn't the Eng-Play inore VanHalen- same around here and Taoo is more VanDuesen. bummed. Rum()r has it the scalpel slipped and r(ijieved ynu Judy-Good Luek! t I pnnnise of YO'Uf manliness. (Now 'nloo is · I'll be nice:. really bumme.d,J &eitirtus1y.... . Rudy '1\ Hof,e you feel better! nest wishes and hugs and You'-ll always be my favorite kisses.- The Gang. roommat~ from freshman year. Dear Trnuble-I wasn•t too Let's get together. L.P. bad this w:eekend, was I? I Hey Jack---Ptomisetosling us didn•t kn()W I cntWJ turn so again sometime in the not-toO. many shades of green. distant future'? It does wonders Pup~-Sometimes you're a when you're slung .. over. Twins dumb shit. but you're beautiful Hoi-Have a great weekend and I love you anyway. Ted. but remember the \plains'• are .. Elisa, .•. Just w let you know I was thinking about ya at personals time . • . thanks for your help on Sunday • , . \never played before'\ , , . Wat-ch out for the Moon.- chUdren ....• • , . Life goes on • • • Debiand Andi-Thanka for the treat Yeu guys are gr.eatt Lov.e ya-Bobby Cag~y ..... 'fnauks fv .always. being aroun-d ••. especially with goodies! · . Countess-1 rwly liked yo.-· outrit. Listen to my ey~s. The \not really son Old. Man , · · Pup- Your ju~emen! wa.:;;n1 wbat I thougltt ft 1 d be. Pmglad I made it. Watch out for pt:nple with crow bars. Thanks~ Lm.1 South~~E:xcellent party! Better than D.U/si When's the nex.t?'?? Party goers D.C.-I'm $orry! l still love you. Can we talk?? How's mechaniC$. 1igger Hips~' Ooa't worryt trw. not . getting serious~ hut I really like him! Let's keep it off campus. Tigger Bon~\\ii?SY'Clhed f()t . SCrambled Jliggs. and JR. 'Ai\vnlid. Square. Yahoo Fan Fling saturday ntght •• ; Get Psyched! ! l ! WHITE P .s. Sorry •bout this week ... me GaU, Raebel. Beth, Jill, Helen* Roz., and Cindy-Thanks for being l)atient and un~ derstandJng. L,cve you an! CirttJy . To an my wild · friends and aequaint~rnces in Tti-Dett·: Thanks for bein · so warm and . . . . ' g . . ... welcoming. You~re a ·great bunc~! ·tove ,QiQl~~~~~· ('l.G~ louly~·witityou,,eause . Being with anyone else .couldn 1 t \eome\ cl~Jse to Being with you. Anyway, I love.you. Penkafaee There once was a ronm ealled Fox ~1 where I was kn()wn to have all my ftm. The guys there were my closest friends and I teared their graduation for. it might all en(!. However, the memorle.s we share togetlier ~· built a frien¢lsQip. tbat shOuld · la$t fotevet.. · Love !f1!~~jo~es. of the, C~fltUever vu:mpany .. · . , . . •• c. I best. S.E. Elissa and. Snaron.,.,Have you had any cereal bnwl ¢Mt~ts laely? Lisa and Kirsten-T!l~x for the great seaSt!t;t.lt was alot 'of fun an fllmms you two nett year:< . . · ~f 'luck: ·in laeto$$~ and· sdftlian. Jetsons- .. Get psyched for BroombalU ! ! 00-You guys are alright. Oh yeah! Audrey-Love that new haireut. Deltoid Love, D.P. Daphne, YtJu wild. W(}man. You! And we thought you were so innocent! Love, the Sweeties. Jennie 1 Let•s hear it f(}r 4--hour study breaks! Hang in there! You're a great chick! Love;, t~e chocolate· cllil'f wuman. · ... Junior~ l promiSe I'll' never neglect. y()U again. Is ·ya.ur ned really bigger tlmn milie? Let's· find out. Love, The First Lady. Giuis;_Io te ~roo, roomie. . Dres-You~rethe best adopted little sister a kid eould have. So what's new, in· your ·life? .love, l.b.p. SeorplSta~ey, Lisat and Nat- .· Y'~Ju're mts of tun: .Wti-111<3. you ennmdttr 'mformaf''f'USfi? r.:ov.e you for sure! another little raseal• Mo-or should I say '~Miss Dynami'Cs:'' t<eep it npl P..S. Nice dresses! - Sharon-Dantt be sn hard on yourself. Missouri lnvtls you. Sat-1 know · this isn't the bulletin btiatd in West but it's, stili $1\111 ~omiqg! T~!! ! your Friday Nights • • • Continued from page 3 hour Sam's and Chopper, which we've all discovered, as well as, well, there's always Sam's and Chopper. Just because it closes at 6 p.m. every night is no reason to bust on the city. (\The only thing open at night is a mailbox\). When the night is over, all that remains is a trip to your dorm room to see how creatively you can e;g:plain to your sleeping roommate that the noise he heard is not a burglar-robber (''Who else would be coming in at 4: 17? , . An~ of course, there's always the morning after. i ,I i II I ! I ( t One AVAil firepla Norml We wante1 with a arran1 femal Prefe1 Call f 6517. , De invit1 Soci: Forn SatUJ hock will Sigrr Spiri On 1981 Mu As so a50J the Sara Ten Rou1 publ sup~ the that

OONOOBDIEN818, November 5, 1981 General Nottices One spot in a GREAT ROOM AVAILABLE winter terq1 only; fireplace, loft, males <mly. can Norman, 6977. We need a roof! Apartment wanted with 1 or 2 bedrooms, with a kitchen or similar co-op arrangement. For 2 agreeable females, for Winter term. Preferably with future opti<ln, Call Karen or Tracey at 37o- 6517. RIDE NEEDED: Is anyone taking an acturial exam Thursday, November 12? I need a ride to Albany State for the morning exam. Contact Margaret, 382•2001. SENIORS! Yearbook .photos- TWO MORE DAYS·! Wed- nesday Nov. 18 and Thursday Nov. 19. Sign-up at Student Activities. The Philosophy Department will present a talk by Professor Lynne R. Baker on Friday, November 6, at 3:30 P.M. in Humanities 213. Professor Baker will talk about the sur- prising problems surrounding names and how they refer to people, places, and things. Lost and Found U anyone finds a gold initial pinky ring (minus the initial) · Oq C£ n.e Greek froqt DG-Sig Cbi Party ~ Delta Gamma and Sigma Chi invite those not attending the Social Committee's Semi· Formal, to tbeir Party on Saturday, Nov. 7, following the hockey game. Beer and wine will be served. Come up to Sigma Chi and partake of the Spirits. Fiji News On Saturday November 7, 1981 Fiji, in cooperation witb the Muscular Dystrophy Association, will participate in a 50 mile Keg Roll: The route for the Roll is from Union to Saratoga iind back, along Nott Terrace, State Street, and Route 50. Students and the public are encouraged to support the Roll by sponsoring the Brothers of Fini per mile that the kel{ is rolled. All proceeds will ·be contributed to Muscular Dystrophy. Also On Saturday Nov. 14 Fiji's 'Fall Rooms Party will take place. A djfferent drink in each ro()m will be served. WATCH OUT! Friday the 13th Wi II Affect You SHOTS, BEER, PUNCH WEBSTER HOUSE Speaker Prof. Eric Meyers DUKE UNIVERSITY ''The Discovery of the lost Ark'' Thurs., Nov. 5th at 4 P.M. 4th Floor -Carnegie Admission ..• FREE/ ALL ARE WELCOME! Presented by Jewish Student Organization HI.L.LEl and History Dept. Personals WILL. NOT Be Accepted Unless Submitted IN TYPING by 7:o·o pm Tuesday please contact Karen at 37 4· 7999. It was lost on campus Friday, Oct. 30. interested persons are welcome to attend. lhrie's presentation is the first lecture in the 1981-82 Union College Faculty Colloquium Series. Maureen 'Ihrie, assistant professpr of modern languages at Union College, will discuss \Don 'Quijote: The Product of Mr. John W. Riehm, Vice Classical Skepticism\ on ·President, External Affairs, Tuesday, Oct. 27, at the College. Thomas J. Lipton Company will Her talk will begin at 4:30p.m. present a colloquium on the and Business Ethics on Thur- sday, November 12, 1981-3:45 P.M. in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. in Social Sciences 016, and all Corporate Social Responsibilitv I OQ i!1e Ot!1er fr~qt Philosophy Women to Meet at possibilities of being a woman.\ Union Please feel free to submit logo and-or design. Use your The Society for Women in imagination. Both men and Philosophy will hold its Eastern women are eligible for the Division meeting at Union contest. Prize .for the winning November 13 to 15. Six papers logo and-or design. For more will be given Saturday, information, contact Polly November 14, and a panel Wheeler at 3704486 Box 855 or discussion on \The Question on Karen Weisberger at 393-8239 Sexist Language in Writing and Box 166. Teaching\ will be held Sunday, --------- Suring Break '82 November 15. Interested per- sons are welcome to attend. The conference will begin at 7 p.m. friday November 13 with an executive committee - meeting in Milano Lounge. For more information call the Philosophy Department at 370- 6206, Professor Linda E. Patrick •at 370-6208, or Sarah S. Bishop at 371)-4081. Women's Network The Women's Network an- nounces a campus wide contest for the T-shirt design for Women's Week 1982. Designs should be uncomplicated and able to be printed in one color. The theme for Women's Week centers around \. . . the infinite After a cold winter in Schenectady, how does Florida· sound? 7 days and 7 nights in Daytona Beach with students from Union and Skidmore Colleges, March 19-28. The price is $239 for round trip express transportation on a lavoratory equipped, Air Conditioned Deluxe motorcoach, 7 nights at Quality Inn Reef (tax included). Deposit $50 (includes $25 Damage Deposit) must be in to Mrs . .Mara at Student Affairs by December 4, 1981. Capacity is 48 people-first come, first served basis. For more information call: Steve Brown at 370-6635 or Mrs. Mara at 370-6118. Fall Fling This Saturday the Social Committee will hold its one and only formal dance this year in .the Ramada Inn ballroom. The evening promises to be a great time . . . there will be a good dance band, a comedian, hors d'oeuvres, a cash bar, and, best of all, a chance to get off campus for the evening. Tickets are $5.00 each or $40.00 for a table of ten, so round up a group of friends and plan to have one of the best evenings of fall term!! DANCE CLUB There will be a Jazz Dance Workshop on Saturday Nov. 7, 12:30 pm in AB 202. This will continue forthe rest of the term and all are welcome to attend. Free!! Also, tickets are still available for Bob Fosses' \Dancin'\, Sat. night at Proctors Theatre. Only $7.00 for $10.50 seats. Call Anne at 6476. SATURDAY NIGHT ••• FALL FLING at the Ramada Inn Be There. • • Tickets on sale in Carnegie NOW De Broca's Crowni09-Triumph! ALAN BATES PIERRE BRASSEUR JEAN-CLAUDE BRIALY GENEVIEVE BUJOLD ADOLFO CELl FRANCOISE CHRISTOPHE JULIEN GUIOMAR MICHELINE PRESLE MICHEL SERRAULT\ Nov. 6, 7 & 8 at 7: 00, 9:00 &ll:OOp.m. Female Housing • 1n Bronner House Coaop for Winter term only. • includes meal plan. If interested please call Lori, Joan or Felicia at -6808.

\, I l .1 i ,, I 1 OONOORDIENSIS, November 5} 1981 Gen,e:ral Nottices One spot in a GREAT ROOM AVAILABLE winter term only; fireplace, loft, males only. Call Norman, 6977. We need a roof! Apartment wanted with 1 or 2 bedrooms, with a kitchen or similar co-op arrangement. For 2 agreeable females, for Winter term. Preferably with future option. Call Karen or Tracey at 370- 6517. RIDE NEEDED: Is anyone taking an acturial exa,m Thursday, November 12? I need a ride to Albany State for the morning exam. Contact Margaret, 382-2001. SENIORS! Yearbook photos- TWO MORE DAYS! Wed- nesday Nov. 18 and Thursday Nov. 19. Sign-up at Student Activities. The Philosophy Department will present a talk by Professor Lynne R. Baker on Friday, November 6, at 3:30 P.M. in Humanities 213. Professor Baker will talk about the sur- prising problems surrounding names and how they refer to people, places, and things. Lost and Found If anyone finds a gold initial pinky ring (minus the initial) OQ <f n-e Greek froqt DG-8ig Chi Party Delta Gamma and Sigma Chi invite those not attending the Social Committee's Semi- Formal, to their Party on Saturday, Nov. 7, following the hockey game. Beer and wine will be served. Come up to Sigma Chi and partake of the Spirits. Fiji News On Saturday November 7, 1981 Fiji, in cooperation with the Muscular Dystrophy Association, will participate in a 50 mile Keg Roll. The route for the Roll is from Union to Saratoga and back, along Nott Terrace, State Street, and Route 50. Students and the public are encouraged to support the Roll by sponsoring the Brothers of Fini per mile that the keg is rolled. All proceeds will be contributed to Muscular Dystrophy. Also On Saturday Nov. 14 Fiji's Fall Rooms Party will take place. A different drink in each room will be served. WATCH OUT! Friday the 13th Will Affect You SHOTS, BEER, PUNCH WEBSTER HOUSE Speaker Prof. Eric Meyers DUKE UNIVERSITY ''The Discovery of the Lost Ark'' Thurs., Nov. 5th at 4 P.M. 4th Floor- Carnegie Admission ... FREE! ALL ARE WELCOME! Preson ted by Jewish Studnnt Organization HILLEL and History Dept. Personals WILL NOT Be Accepted Unless Submitted IN TYPING by 7:00 pm Tuesday e Ices please contact Karen at 374- 7999. It was lost on campus Friday, Oct. 30. interested persons are welcome to attend. Ihrie' s presentation is the first lecture in tiJ.e 1981-82 Union College Faculty Colloquium Series. Maureen Ihrie, assistant professor of modern languages at Union College, will discuss \Don 'Quijote: The Product of Mr. John W. Riehm, Vice Classical Skepticism\ on President, External Affairs, Tuesday, Oct. 27. at the College. Thomas J. Lipton Company will Her talk wiH begin at 4:30 p.m. present a coll()(}uium on the and Business Etllics on Thur- sday, NoVEillber 12, 1981-3:45 P.M. in R()om 207, Bailey Hall Union Coll<ege. ' in Social Sciences 0!1.6, and all Corporate Social Responsibilitv I 011 cr~c Ot~er fr~qt Philosophy Women to Meet at possibilitiesofbeing a woman.\ Union Please feel free to submit logo Fall Fling l and-or design. Use your . The Society for Women in imagination. Both men and This Saturday the Social Philosophy will hold its Eastern women are eligible for the Committee will hold its one and Division meeting at Union contest. Prize for the winning only formal dance this year in November 13 to 15. Six papers logo and-or design. For more the Ramada Inn ballroom. The will be given Saturday, information, c-ontact Polly e_vening promises ~o be a great November 14, and a panel Wheeler at 370-4486 Box 855 or ttme ... there w1ll be a good discussion on \The Question on Karen Weisber~er at 393-3239 dance band, a comedian, hors Sexist Language in Writing and Box 166. d'oeuvres, a cash bar, and, best Teaching\ will be held Sunday of all, a chance to get off November 15. Interested per: Sprillg Break '82 campus for the evening. Tickets sons are welcome to attend. After a cold winter in are $5.00 each or $40.00 for a The conference will begin at 7 Schenectady, ho-w does Florida· tabl~ of ten, so round up a group p.m. Friday November 13 with sound? 7 days and 7 nights in of frtends and plan to have one an executive committee · Daytona Beach with students of the best evenings of fall meeting in Milano Lounge. For from Union and Skidmore term!! more information call the Colleges, March 19-28. The price ---------- Philosophy Department at 370- is $239 for rou11d trip express DANCE CLUB 6206, Professor Linda E. transportation on a lavoratory There will be a Jazz Dance Patrick 'at 370-6208, or Sarah S. equipped, Air Conditioned Workshop on Saturday Nov. 7, Bishop at 370-4081. Deluxe motorcoach, 7 nights at 12:30 pm in AB 202. This will Women's Network The Women's Network an- nounces a campus wide contest for the T-shirt design for Women's Week 1982. Designs should be uncomplicated and able to be printed in one color. The theme for Women's Week centers around \. . . the infinite Quality Inn Reef (tax included). continue for the rest of tiJ.e term Deposit $50 (includes $25 and all are welcome to attend. Damage Deposit) must be in to Free! ! Also, tickets are still Mrs. Mara at St1.1dent Affairs by available for Bob Fosses' December 4, 19Bl. \Dancin\ ', Sat. night at Capacity is '18 people-first Proctors Theatre. Only $7.00 for come, first served basis. For $10.50 seats. Call Anne at 6476. more inform.ation call: Steve Brown at 370-E6~ or Mrs. Mara at 370-6118. SATURDAY NIGHT. • • FALL FLING at the Rcamadca Inn Be There ••• Tickets on sale in Carnegie NOW De Broca's Crowning. Triumph I 1 \'/ • / ALAN BATF5 PIE RRf BRl\.SSf u F' Jf AN CL t\UDF BHI.\l v GFNFVIFVE BUJOLD AOOUOCfll FRANC05f CfiRIS TOPKf JU!If N CiUil)I\J/\1-~ MtCtiELINF PRf Slf MICHf l Sf RRAULT • Nov. 6, 7 & 8 at 7:00,9:00 & 11 :OOp.m. fe111ale Housing • 1n Bronner House Co-op for Ylin1er term only. • inchules meal plan. If irtterested please call Lori, Joan or Felicia at -6808.

H~PPY BIRTlU>A Y mLARV! Make it one of your..._ _________ ......., best. S.E. Elissa and Sharon-Have you had any eereal bowl contests taely? Lisa and Kirsten-Thanx for the gnaat seasnn. It was alot of fun and we'll miss you two next year. Best of luck in lact'()sse and softban. Jetsons~Get psyched for Broomball!!! DG-You guys are alright. Oh yeah! ··~ Feathers--Missed ya last Tuesday! The Bird Watchers Audrey--Love that new haircut. Deltoid Love, D.P. · Ruth Ellen-Bonus psyclted yeah! 209 Seward-ltts been a great (our y~arsd. • We luv ya~ Ob ye.ah Gannnoi Loye Sl()mb()i1Js-- .. W.ish YP:U. were guys St> we could bake eookies for ya. Love ya lets, the Sdiobmols. Goorge- You look great in red lipstick at 5:30 in the morning. Let's hear it for the third time around! Love~ tbe girl from tbe GUand, Bert, Chip, Chip HGoray! If not a cookie, then a baldie! Love, Elmer Daphne, You wild woman, You! And we thought you were so innocent! Love, the Sweeties. Jennie) Letts hear it for 4-haur study breaks! Hang in there! You're a great chick:! LQve~ the chocolate chip wuman. Sheri-Sis, I l<tve you 1 Lil Sis. m: this weeks installment; wha'eha d~in ,tomarrow nigllt? g.rttn,..i ,dbQd 'b) ··.·· ·· t · · . ~~\lS ~-· ' :; '. ID.e'. St~ven B .. ;rJoo reruiy ·~dltln~t ·. want . the whole campus celebrating y~ur· birthday~ did yolt'?.P:PY··· BlR'll[l):iAYlH K:B . S.B. 'Ml:is personal is redeemable for <me mllksbake up<~n. p.root of itl(:)ntifi:eatioh at 1055 Park Ave. KB. .· · sue, Let•s get together sometime SOQn. I mis~ yo11 . • • Your toottm1$te, (believe it ill' · not) SLOM.<JN·INN: I miss Y()ur sleazy faces. Let's get together in . tb~ produce qepartment Gf Price Cltopper next Friday night. Sig deR luv, Howard Johnson. Giuis-Io te amo, your ex- roomie. Dres-You•re the best adopted little sister a kid could have. So whaf s new; bl your life?. love, l.b.p. ~orp, $t~~ey, l,isa~ ~nd Nat- Y l}u're lot$ of. f~. Would you eunsider inf.,rmal rush? LOve you for sure! another little rascal. Bink-We NEED a road trip. Just <!<m't eQok anym()re squaSh. Dusty. Room 2ll North-How does it feel tQ be spoken for? Your pal · 203. . . ·. .. . . • Artbur-l.fappy 'B,irl;b,dayt Do we stijl hav~ to g~ y~u a gift? Hope tbis year is the best ever. lhve, you, Lisa and Sheri. Binky! I just can,t believe Hamilton's dead. What a tragedy. We 1 ll get through it together. Your~} dustball. Kelly-Jesse c.alled and said she hates the boulevards in France! Mo...-or should I say \Miss Dynamics.n Keep it up! P.S. Nice dresses! Sbaron-Donrt be so hard on yourself. Missouri \uves you. Sal-1 koow this isn't the bulletin board in West but it's, still stili coming! TTM1 ! ! DG pledges-Don't worry, we haventt fotgett{;n ynu.. · ~~J3a.b~l -, ,_ ~ . . the way y()U Dee-Thanx,; you got ynur wi$h. Helen-..alias coach of the gamma rays! Anne-Isn't it K.-E-A-T..S? Ro'Perta-tJet Psicbedll ! Liz--FREE DOG! Where did you ever think of tbat original name? 1;1 j D, Any. good mo.vies on? . ...------------' ;- ·: : ·_._,:_::.. -- . ROY~ ~'anks fl)r Juni4r: t prom~ rtn never n t you again. is ·your bed re . bigg~r than mine? Let's find out. Love, The First Lady. Friday Nights • • • Continued from page 3 hour Sam's and Chopper, which we've all discovered, as well as, well, there's always Sam's and Chopper. Just because it closes at 6 p.m. every night is no reason to bust on the city. (\The only thing open at night is a mailbox\). When the night is over, all that remains is a trip to your dorm room to see h<Jw creatively you can explain to your sleeping roommate that the noise he heard is not a burglar-robber (\Who else would be coming in at 4: 17? \. An~ of course, there's always the morning after. CONOORDIENSIS, No1Jember 6, 1981 General N,ottices One spot in a GREAT ROOM AVAILABLE winter term only; fireplace, loft, males only. Call Norman, 6977. We need a roof! Apartment wanted with 1 or 2 bedrooms, with a kitchen or similar co-op arrangement. For 2 agreeable females, for Winter term. Preferably with future option. Call Karen or Tracey at 370- 6517. RIDE NEEDED: Is anyone taking an acturial exam Thursday, November 12? I need a ride to Albany State .for the morning ex:am. Contact Margaret, 382-2001. SENIORS! Yearbook photos- TWO MORE DAYS! Wed- nesday Nov. 18 and Thursday Nov. 19. Sign-up at Student Activities. The Philosophy Department will present a talk by Professor Lynne R. Baker on Friday, November 6, at 3:30 P.M. in Humanities 213. Professor Baker will talk about the sur- prising problems surrounding names and how they refer to people, places, and things. Lost and Found If anyone finds a gold initial pinky ring (minus the initial) Oq C£ ne Greek f'ro:qt DG-Sig Chi Party , Delta Gamma and Sigma Chi invite these not attending the Social Committee's Semi- Formal, to their Party on Saturday, Nov. 7, following the hockey game. Beer and wine will be served. Come up to Sigma Chi and partake of the Spirits. Fiji News On Saturday November 7, 1981 Fiji, in cooperation with the :'v1uscular Dystrophy Association, will participate in a 50 mile Keg Roll. The route for the Roll is from Union to Saratoga and back, along Nott Terrace, State Street, and Route 50. Students and the public are encouraged to support the Roll by sponsoring the Brothers of Fini per mile that the keg is rolled. All proceeds will be contributed to Muscular Dystrophy. Also On Saturday Nov. 14 Fiji's Fall Rooms Party wm take place. A different drink in each room will be served. WATCH OUT! Friday the 13th Will Affect You SHOTS, BEER, PUNCH WEBSTER HOUSE Speaker Prof. Eric Meyers DUKE UNIVERSITY 'lfhe Discovery of the Lost Ark'' Thurs., Nov. 5th at 4 P.M. 4th Floor- Carnegie Admission ... FREE! ALL ARE WELCOMEI Presented by Jewish Student Organization HILLEL and History Dept. Personals WILL NOT Be Accepted Unless Submitted IN TYPING by 7:00 pm Tuesday e Ices please contact Karen at 374- 7999. It was lest on campus Friday, Oct. 30. I Maureen Ihrie, assistant professor of modern languages at Union College, will discuss ''Don 'Quijote: The Product of Classical Skepticism\ on Tuesday, Oct. 27, at the College. Her talk will begin at 4:30p.m. in Social Sciences 016, and all Philosophy Women to Meet at Union The Society for Women in Philosophy wiU hold its Eastern Division meeting at Union November 13 to 15. Six .papers will be given Saturday, November 14, and a panel discussion on \The Question on Sexist Language in Writing and Teaching\ will be held Sunday, November 15. Interested per- sons are welcome to attend. The conference will begin at 7 p.m. Friday November 13 with an executive committee meeting in Milano Lounge. For more information call the Philosophy Department at 370- 6206, Professor Linda E. Patrick 'at 370-6208, or Sarah S. Bishop at 370-4081. Women's Network The Women's Network an- nounces a campus wide contest for the T-shirt design for Women's Week 1982. Designs should be uncomplicated and able to be printed in one color. The theme for Women's Week centers around \. . . the infinite interested persons are to attend. lhrie's presentation first lecture in the 1981· College Faculty Col Series. Mr. John W. Riehl President, External Thomas J. Lipton Com) present a colloquium Corporate Social Respc possibilities of being a \ Please feel free to sub and-or design. Us' imagination. Both m women are eligible contest. Prize for the logo and-or design. F' information, contac Wheeler at 370-4486 Be Karen Weisberger at Box 166. Spring Break '8: After a cold wi Schenectady, how doeE sound? 7 days and 7 1 Daytona Beach with from Union and s· Colleges, March 19-28. ~ is $239 for round trip transportation on a la equipped, Air Con Deluxe motorcoach, 7 Quality Inn Reef (tax iJ Deposit $50 (inclu Damage Deposit) mus Mrs. Mara at Student I December 4, 1981. Capacity is 48 pe< come, first served b1 more information ca: Brown at 370-6635 or M at 370-6118. SATURDAY~ FAl FL/1 at the Ramada I Be TherE Tickets on De Broca's Crowning.Triumphl ALAN BAH.S PIE\Rl E3f-(I\SSL Uf~ Jl AN CL./\U[)l Uf-\1,\L.\ GENfVIF:Vt BUJOL IJ ALJuU u Ll L• 1-f<;\i'JCOISf OH~IST(I JL.l I[ N, >U, 'f\1,\1< MICt i[ LINt J.JHt SL t MICHt L SE\RAUl T · Nov at 7 & 11

Page 10 OONCOBDlliJNSlS 1 November 6} 1981 . :· . .· .. , . . .. ·. . . . ·. . . . . . Women's Sports: Runners Take 3rd By TRISH MORIARTY :FOR A CHANGE OF ,pACE DANC·E the NI;GHT AWAY Cit the The women's cross country team finished third this past Saturday at the Albany Invitational held at Albany State. The victory was denied the team at first when it was thought that only four Union Harriers had finished the course. The third place trophy had been presented ta RPI's women when the scoring mistake was discovered by Union spectators. The mistake was quickly rectified by meet officials and the trophy was presented to Union's runners. top half allowing them to beat opposition such as Albany State, Queens College, and Delhi State. Union's top finisher was Inge Stockman, whose 12th place ~inish in 19:11 earned her an indhridual trophy as well as the1team's. Second and third for the Dutchmen were Danielle Chernaik, 20th overall in 19: 48, and Joan O'Connor, 21st in 19: 53. Rounding out the scoring for Union were Janice Glidden, 28th in 20:38, and Sue Stopera, 29th in 20.: 40. The team was without the services of Sherri Weitzen and Trish Moriarty, both of whom are injured. DUTCH HOLLOW PUB Although finishing behind Syracuse University and Trenton State, the team's performance was very good. The five women all finished in Unioh Harrier lnge Stockman On Saturday, the team will be travelling to Hamilton College in Clinton, NY, to compete in their first post-season meet, the Women's State meet. Drink it up& keep the cup! Tonight The Music Begins at 9:.30 \HOT SPICED CIDER\ Don't Miss It! ! ! Domino's Pizza is giving away a free plastic cup and lid! Order a cola with your pizza and we'll give you something to re· member us by. The colorful Domino's Pizza cup holds a generous 16 ounces and comes with its own lid. Made of durable plastic, it is dish- washer safe and reusable. You'll want to collect a dozen! Take advantage of this special offer, good while supplies last. No coupon · necessary. At Domino's Pizza we make only pizza ... pizzas are our business ... fast, free delivery is our specialty. Give us a call! Fast, Free Delivery 372-4441 127 Nott Terrace Hours: 4:30 • 1 :00 Sun. ·Thurs. 4:30 - 2:00 Fri. & Sat. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Limited delivery area. We use only 100% real dl:lity cheese. ©1981 Dom1no's P1zza. Inc. r·-------·---·---------~ 'I I I $1.00 off any pizza. I I One coupon per pizza. I I Expires: 12/15/81 I I I I Fast, Free Delivery I I · 1 27 Nott Terrace _ I I Phone: 372-4441 I I 17526/3304 I I I I I I I I I I ® I I I L---···········-~---··-J r··---·--···--·-------- .. I I· I 2 free cups of Pepsi. I I Order any 12\ pizza I I and get 2 cups of Pepsi I I free with this coupon. I I One coupon per pizza. I I Expires: 12/15/81 I I I 1 1 Fast, Free Delivery 1 1 127 Nott Terrace I Phone: 372-4441. I I 17s2st33o4 I I I I I I I L •••••••••••••••••••••• J

-t I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I .. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I J I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I dONCOBDIBNSlS, ·November 6, 1981 Page 11 Athlete of the Week Athlete of t,he Week Tod Fobare in action. By MICHAEL SHARP This week's Athlete of the Weekhon()rs go to Tod Fobare a junior f()rward for the Unio~ College ice hockey team. Tod eamed his honors with an outstandin~ performance against New England College on October 30 in which he scored three goals to help power . the . Skating Dutchmen to a 6-3 victory. Tod .attributed his excellent Footba.ll Preview Union's crippled and struggling team travels to Middlebury College next Saturday to take on the 5-1 Panthers in what has to be considered a \must\ game for the Dutchmen. Second year head coach Joe Wirth's team opened the 1981 campaign with its best start since 1949. However, injuries to key personnel and some un- timely turnovers by a young Dutchmen defense have been the key factors in Union's last two losses. Two weeks ago against Trinity, the Dutchnien jumped out to an 18-7 halftime lead only to have fow· fumbles and two interceptions turn the game into a 25-18 Bantam victory. Last week against Williams, Union's offense was unable to get untracked despite some outstanding defensive plays that gave the Dutchmen good field position in the second half. A 53-yard interception return by Williams opened the scoring for the Ephmen. Two more in- terceptions and four fumble recoveries by the visitors helped Williams pull away from SPORTS HAPPENINGS Varsity Football JV Football Varsity Soccer Varsity Hockey Men is Cross Country Women 1 S Volleyball ··.,.. Nov. 7 Middlebury 1: 30 A Nov. 9 Wilbraham Munson Acad 3:00 A Nov. 7 Kings Point 2: 00 H Nov. 7 AIC 8:00 H Nov. 7 State Meet Nov. 10 West Point 7:00 H SEAGRAMQISTILLERS CO. NYC AMERICAN¥1\ll!iKEV-A BlEND 80 PROOF SMII u~ .,ND 1uf' .W'II.I.OEI.!Ail~OITIH'Stvt'~ uP~OIJ9A'~•C 96 , - a 14-6 halftime margin and turn the game into a 30-6 rout. For the second week in a row, Union's ground game was not able to amass 50 yards for the game let alone put any points on the board. In the past two games Union's rushers have been held to a total of 68 yards on 84 'Carries. Union's injury list has cut deeply into the Dutchmen's squad. Against Williams four starters and seven reserves were sidelines with nagging bumps and bruises. Union will now face a Mid- dlebury team that is coming off a 55..() massacre of Hamilton before closing the season the following week against Hamilton on Union's Astroturf field. The Dutchmen must win at least one of the remaining two games for a .500 season and their best record since 1970. However, two more losses will surely destroy what started out as a great season. early season performance to his having worked out hard aU summer. He made it a point to lift weights and stay in shape so he could come on strong in the early part of the season. He also feels that new assistant coach Tomassoni has helped give him a little extra incentive to skate hard. Tod feels that the Dutchman win was a total team effort, from the coaches to the players. He noted that there was a lot of enthusiasm on the ice. He believes that the Dutchmen should have a solid year since the team has a good attitude, all the players are working hard, and the student body seems to be behind the team. Tod, a Managerial Economics · major from Saranac Lake, N.Y., has excelled at athletics his whole life. His junior and senior years of high school at Saranac Lake High he was Athlete of the Year. He played hockey for four years and was captain of the team. He played football and was an All-State quarterback. He also played four years of baseball. Tod spent ene year .of postgraduate work at the New Hampton School where he played hockey, baseball and football. At Union, Tod has played three years of varsity ice hockey. Last year he was the team's high scorer. He has also played two years of varsity baseball. Tod is a brother of the Chi Psi fraternity, where he is currently the social chairman. Congratulations to Tod and the team and the best of luck against American International College on November 7th. I I \O.T .~ By DAVE RUDEN The battle for the bragging rights in New York didn't turn oqt to be much of a fight. However, some definite ob- servations can be made about the plight of the pigskin in the Big Apple Week nine of the . Giants' season was very similar to week one. As long as I continue to attend Giant games I know I can count on two things: a waiting line for the bathroom at halftime and an inconsistent offense. Sure, the Giants have shown signs of explosiveness (witness Atlanta and St. Louis), but Sunday's game showed some of the team's glaring faults. Though outplayed, the team's mistakes led to their downfall. Every time the Giant defense inflated the ambitious crowd, an Earnest Gray dropped pass would deflate them. Fumbles, penalties, dropped passes, and a questionable game plan were all on the agenda for the day. Not that the Jets didn't expose any weaknesses within the Giants' lineup. Walt Michaels' awesome defensive ·une ripped through Phil Simms' fortress for nine sacks,. while never allowing the J erseyites to establish a running game. Simms continues to hold on to . the ball too long in the pocket; this accounted for some of the sacks and hind'ered the movement of the offense. Finally, the team didn't come through in the clutch, failing on thirteen of their fourteen third down opportunities. · What does this all mean for their final seven games? As much as fans want to believe after the Atlanta game, the Giants are not yet a playoff team. They are on the right track, but an offensive line, an explosive runner, and a more effective pass rush are needed before dreams of a second season can be taken seriously. Meanwhile, on the other side of the George Washington, the Jets are also sending out false signals to their fans. As long as Walt Michaels is the coach, the team is destined to play under their heads. This team drives the bookies honkers. · Richard Todd is a light switch quar- terb.ack (i.e., on again, off again), though this year has been one of his best. The back seven on defense are questionable. The team has a great deal of raw talent, but Michaels cannot motivate the team to play up to their potential. It took Michaels four weeks before he realized that Freeman McNeil was a great runner. He still hasn't the foggiest notion on how to use Lam Jones. ·With a team that has had an explosive offense and a shoddy defense for years, Michaels still uses his top draft picks to get more running backs and wide receivers. The team does have bright spots. Injury-prone Wesley Walker has healed and is playing like the All-Pro that he is. Joe Klecko and Mark Gastineau have developed into two fine pass rushers. Along with Abdul Salaam and Marty Lyons they combine to give the Jets one of the best lines in the league. Bruce Harper is an underrated all-purpose man, comparable to Terry Metcalf in his glory years. And the Jets still have one of the best of- fensive lines around. But still the Jets continue to reach the heights of mediocrity. The Jets can make the playoffs as soon as they do one thing: can Walt Michaels. Why the Jets' brain trust hasn't done this yet is still a puzzle. New York's finest are like the cure for cancer; so close yet so far. They both are football's answer to the little choo-choo that thought it could. With the right moves in the next year, both team's thoughts could turn to reality . Concordy Pick: MIDDLEBURY ••• 10 ••• Union

.a?age 12 OONOOBDIENBIB, Nouember ,, 1981 · .. . ' . . . . • ' ' ! •\ ~ ·. . . ' . ' ' ' . ' . Hockey Looks lmpres.sive ByCPSIS High-scoring center Tod Fabare picked up where he left off last year as he led a spirited Dutchmen squad to a 6-3 victory over the New England College Skating Pilgrims on Friday night. Fobare, last year's leading . scorer, notched three goals as the Dutchmen dominated every facet of play against NEC. The Dutchmen came out hustling and it paid off early as freshman Scott Wernecke' popped in a loose puck after a scramble around the net after · only 2:51. Assists were awarded· to freshmen Mike Kozub and Bill Kirby. Union kept NEC pinned in their own end the rest of the period and hit paydirt again at 8:17 as freshman Chris Johnson tipped in a Sean Willis drive from the point with T.J. Ryan also gathering an assist. So one-sided was the play in the first period that Unipn outshot NEC 19-4. NEC cut the margin to 2-1 at 5:44 of the second period on a power play goal after Kozub was sent off for a minor penalty. Co-captain Mike Merlo made a tremendous effort on the play, but came up short. Then the Tod· Fobare show went into _action. First, aggressive forechecking by linemates Jamie Knight and Bill Wall' gave Fobare ,the puck,· which he tucked in behind the NEC goalie. Then, at 18:20, Fobare beat his man and broke in from the right side to score a . second goal in the same fashion as his first. Fobare finished off his hat trick performance at 1:49 of the third period with a breakaway goal after receiving a nifty pass from freshman defenseman Sean Willis. Joe Caruso put the game safely out of reach a minute later, putting in a loose puck after linemates Danny O'Neil and Mike Rozzi had peppered the stunned NEC goaltender with numerous scoring bids. Two NEC goals late in the game accounted for the 6-3 final score. The game was marred by penalties, as ten Dutchmen were sent to the penalty box in the third period alone. The penalty-killing by Union was superb, though, shutting down a vaunted NEC offense that had trounced Fitchburg State 12-1 in a previous encounter. All in all, it was a fine start for the Dutchmen who are op- timistic about greatly im- proving last year's dismal 6-21-1 record. Many of the returning lettermen are in much better condition now than they were at this point last year. There is Booters Slide By BRIAN SHEA The Union College soccer team lost two games this past week: 3-1 to Oneonta State and 3-2 to Rochester. On both oc- casions the squad emerged at the end of the first half in the lead only to exit the second half in defeat. Union took quick charge of the Oneonta game with an early goal by freshman Peter Stegemann. After just five mmutes of play' junior Andy Dreher took a loose ball away from the Oneonta sweeper, then drew the defense towards him, finally passing to a wide open Stegemann who shot a low ball to the left hand corner. Union played hard for the first ten minutes but then the intensity slackened. The Division I power Oneonta started to control the match. The first half ended with a 1 ~ Dutchman lead. As the second half got un- derway, Oneonta thoroughly dominated the play. At 1:08 into the second half, Ed Acosta, an Oneonta halfback, carried the ball past three Union defenders, then sent the ball right out front to Karnil Kooner who beat Romas from 15 yards out. Oneonta struck again five minutes later as Paul Doyle blew past the Dutchman defense and passed to a wide open Paxton Rose who touched the ball into an open net. Union then revived itself with 35 minutes left. As Pete Molloy moved up field he sent a pass to Brian Shea who tipped the ball to Dreher. Dreher then unloaded a rocket that glanced off the post and another Out .. chman opportunity was frustrated. Oneonta put the final nail in the coffin with 27:49left. Paxton Rose used a burst of speed and muscle to outgun Union · defender Jeff Martin and score on the resulting breakaway. Union played well at moments, but lacked that essential ninety-minute in- tensity that could have made them victorious. They had Oneonta on the ropes but failed to add the pressure that would have put them on top. Saturday was much of the same for the Boaters. Union gained a 1-0 lead with Stegemann's fifth goal of the season. Once again Dreher made the play, drawing the defense then passing to Stegemann who put the ball in the net. Tom Pimm scored at 9:50 for Rochester on a throw-in from Mike Koster, making it 1- 1. At 23:20 Brian Shea gave Union a 2-1 edge. Tim Ager made an excellent throw-in on the short side of the cage and the Rochester goalie came out but not soon enough as Shea sent a head ball into the net. The second half was a repeat of the Oneonta game. Union only touched four shots and watched Rochester dominate the match going on to score two goals and collect a 3-2 win. At 34:05, Lee Maxie netted the equalizer on a feed from Wayne Nelson and then at 39:15 Tom Pimm netted the game winner on a header again from Mike Koster. Hans Bukow and Dreher both had late chances to get an equalizer, but both blasted 20 yard shots just over the goal. The loss dropped Union's record to 5-5-2 and ended any post- season playoff hopes. Union now travels to Marist on Wednesday and hosts Kings Point at home for the season finale. Marist is now number six in Division I in New York State and Kings Point is number one in the nation in Division II. Both opponents are tough. Union must play exceptionally well to survive with a winning season. also a lot of new blood on the team. Twelve freshmen are skating for the varsity and eight of them had a hand in four of the goals scored by Union. New assistant varsity coach Ronn Tomassoni has proven to be an asset to the team already. Veterans as well as freshmen are imoressed with his teaching and discipline, 1 perhaps some factors that have been missing in the past. The team participated in a controlled scrimmage last Monday with North Adams State to further their preparation for Saturday's last pre-season game with A.I.C. Barring injury and lack of intensity, the Union varsity hockey team should have a successful season,despite a long and tough schedule. - Mickey Perras baHies for puck Football Fails to Move Ball By LOU GEORGE • Many people thought this would be the year that the Dutchmen would break a 12- year losing streak to a weaker than usual Williams team. But the lack of offensive power which had hindered Union all year proved crucial in last Saturday's game. The Dut- chmen could not move the ball at all offensively with only 35 yards rushing on 38 attempts and liB yards passing on 17 at- tempts. This proved costly to the Dutchman defensive unit which had been on the field much more than Coach Wirth had wished. The Dutchmen were in the hole right from the beginning when Dan Wilen intercepted a Dan Stewart pass and scam- pered 53 yards for a quick 7-0 lead. The next few series did not result in any scores due to the steady play of both defensive units. But with 2:27 left in the first quarter, John Johnson scored on a 41 yard pass from Stewart. The point after was 1-alocked, but Union closed the gap to 7-6. At the beginning.ofthe second quarter, Williams ate up five minutes of the clock on a scoring drive that ended with a two yard run by Williams quarterback (via Choate) B.J. Connelly, Union was by no means out of the game at this point, but with the poor of- fensive showing in the second quarter the Dutchman defense had .their hands full in keeping the deficit to only eight points, 14-6. The offensive unit had three chances to set up some sort of drive but each time they were stopped without a first· down. Thanks to the tough defense, Union went into the lockerroom down at halftime trailing only 14-6. In the third qaarter the Dutchman defense again played well which resulted in a blocked punt by defensive end Bruce Melena at the Williams 26 yard line. This was a golden op- portunityfor Union, but on their second down, Stewart fumbled and Williams recovered at their own 28 yard line. B11t Union's chances were not over; three Union defense swarms the Williams QB . plays later Williams's quar- terback fumbled and Tim Williamson recovered the ball and again gave the Union of- fense good field position. The Dutchmen were held to no yardage for three downs and .again had to punt. This was the last real threat Union had to narrow the deficit because the offense could not produce a sustained drive deep into Williams territory. Williams offense was able to add sixteen more points due to the exhaustion of the Union defense which had played well. Twenty of Williams 30 points were due to three Union mistakes. The final score was 30-6 in Williams favor. The Dutchmen (3-3-1) travel to Middlebury in a quest for their first winning season in 10 years; they will have to win their last two games of the season to acquire this. But to beat teams like Middlebury and Hamilton, Coach Wirth will have to work on an offensive attack and the Dutchmen will have to minimize their mistakes. Hockey: Sat., Nov. 7 at 8:00 pm Tickets A II Proceeds go $1.00 UN ION vs. A.I.C. to Block u c E ,_ 0 z c: E t.. 0 .... tJ) > .0 0 .... 0 ..c 0. - ex . ._.,. ' ... Ill Ill 0 ... co > -g ~ ] l De Fri the De thE N) pr~ ha es1 thi c F~ N th SI bl st S« y tt ol c s S1 p n F p F tl tl s ~ e t t j 'i

_t)age12 CONOOBDIBN818, November 6~ 1981 · '·, . . ·,. ' ' . :. . . ~ . . ' • ' •• • • • • ' • • • f, • ~ • • • - • • Hockey Looks Impressive ByCPSIS High-scoring center Tod Fobare picked up where ,he left off last year as he led a spirited Dutchmen squad to a 6-3 victory over the New England College Skating Pilgrims on Friday night. . Fobare, last year's leading . scorer, notched three goals as the Dutchmen dominated every facet of play against NEC. The Dutchmen came out hustling and it paid off early as freshman Scott Wernecke • popped in a loose puck after a scramble around the net after · only 2:51. Assists were awarded· te freshmen Mike Kozub and Bill Kirby. Union kept NEC pinned in their own end the rest of the period and hit paydirt again at 8:17 as freshman Chris Johnson tipped in a Sean Willis drive from the point with T.J. Ryan also gathering an assist. So one-sided was the play in the first peri{)d that Unipn outshot NEC 19-4. NEC cut the margin to 2-1 at 5:44 of the second period on a power play goal after Kozub was sent offfor a minor penalty. Co-captain Mike Merlo made a tremendous effort on the play, but came up short. Then the Tod· Fobare show went into JI.Ction. First, aggressive forechecking by linemates Jamie Knight and Bill Wall gave Fobare the puck,· which he tucked in behind the N'EC goalie. Then, at 18:20, 'F'obare beat his man and broke in from the right side to score a . second goal in tbe same fashion as his first. Fobare finished off his hat trick performance at 1:49 of the . third period with a breakaway goal after receiving a nifty pass Irem freshman defenseman Sean Willis. Joe Caruso put the game safely out of reach a minute later, putting in a loose puck after linemates Danny O'Neil and Mike Rozzi had peppered the stunned NEC goaltender with numerous scoring bids. Two NEC goals late in the game accounted for the 6-3 final score. The game was marred by penalties, as ten Dutchmen were sent to the penalty box in tile third period alone. The penalty-killing by Union was s11perb, though, shutting down a vaunted NEC offense that had trounced Fitchburg State 12-1 in a previous encounter. All in all, it was a fine start for the Dutchmen who are op- timistic about greatly im- proving last year's dismal6-21-1 record. Many of the returning lettermen are in much better condition now than they were at this point last year. There is Booters Slide By BRIAN SHEA The Union College soccer team lost two games this past week: 3-1 to Oneonta State and 3-2 to Rochester. On both oc- casions the squad emerged at the end of the first half in the . lead only to exit the second half in defeat. Union took quick charge of the Oneonta game with an early goal by freshman Peter Stegemann. After just five minutes of play, junior Andy Dreher took a loose ball away from the Oneonta sweeper, then drew the defense towards him, finally passing to a wide open Stegemann who shot a low ball to the left hand corner. Union played hard for the first ten minutes but then the intensity slackened. The Division I power Oneonta started to control the match. The first half ended with a 1-() Dutchman lead. As the second half got un- derway, Oneonta thoroughly dominated the play. At 1:08 into the second half, Ed Acosta, an Oneonta halfback, carried the ball past three Union defenders, then sent the ball right out front to Karnil Kooner who beat Romas from 15 yards out. Oneonta struck again five minutes later as Paul Doyle blew past the Dutchman defense and passed to a wide open Paxton Rose who touched the ball into an open net. Union then revived itself with 35 minutes left. As Pete Molloy moved up field he sent a pass to Brian Shea who tipped the ball to Dreher. Dreher then unloaded a rocket that glanced off the post and another Out .. chman opportunity was frustrated. Oneonta put the final nail in the coffin with 27: 49left. Paxton Rose used a burst of speed and muscle to outgun Union defender Jeff Martin and score on the resulting breakaway. Union played well at moments, but lacked that essential ninety-minute in- tensity that could have made them victorious. They had Oneonta on the r-opes but failed to add the pressure that would have put them on top. Saturday was much of the same for the Booters. Union gained a 1-() lead with Stegemann's fifth goal of the season. Once again Dreher made the play, drawing the defense then passing to Stegemann who put the ball in the net. Tom Pimm scored at 9:50 for Rochester on a throw-in from Mike Koster, making it 1- 1. At 23:20 Brian Shea gave Union a 2-1 edge. Tim Ager made an excellent throw-in on the short side of the cage and the Rochester goalie came out but not soon enough as Shea sent a head ball into the net. The second half was a repeat of the Oneonta game. Union only touched four shots and watched Rochester dominate the match going on to score two goals and collect a 3-2 win. At 34:05, Lee Maxie netted the equalizer on a feed from Wayne Nelson and then at 39:15 Tom Pimm netted the game winner on a header again from Mike Koster. Hans Bukow and Dreher both had late chances to get an equalizer, but both blasted 20 yard shots just over the goal. The loss dropped Union's record to 5-5-2 and ended any post- season playoff hopes. Union now travels to Marist on Wednesday ancl hosts Kings Point at home for the season finale. Marist is now number six in Division I in New York State and Kings Point is number one in the nation in Division II. Both opponents are tough. Union must play exceptionally well to survive with a winning season. also a lot of new blood on the team. Twelve freshmen are skating for the varsity and eight of them had'a hand in four of the goals scored :by Union. New assistant varsity coach Honn Tomassoni has pl'oven to be an asset to the team already. Veterans as well as freshmen are irno..ressed -with his teaching and disciJ)line, 1 perhaps some factors tbat have been missing in tbe past. The team participated in a controlled scrimmage last Monday with North Ada:rns State to further their preparation for Saturday's last pre-season game with A. I. C. Barring injury and lack of intensity, the Union varsity hockey team should have a successfulseason,despite a long and tough schedule. - \' ~.' Mickey Perras battles for puck Football Fails to Move Ball Byi...ClUGEORGE • Many people thought this would be the year that the Dutchmen would break a 12- year losing streak to a weaker than usual Williams team. But the lack of offensive power which had hindered Union all year proved crucial in last Saturday's :game. The Dut- chmen could not move the ball at all offe11sively with only 35 yards rushing :on 38 attempts and 88 yards passing on 17 at- tempts. This proved costly to the Dutchman defensive unit which had been on the field much more than Coach Wirth had wished. The Dut~lunen were in the hole right from the beginning when Dan Wilen intercepted a Dan Stewart pass and scam- pered 53 yards for a quick 7-0 lead. The ne.xt few series did not result in any scores due to the steady play of both defensive units. But with 2: 27 left in the first quarter, John Johnson scored on a 41 yard pass from Stewart. Tlu point after was \locked but Union closed the ::: !I \ gap to 7-6. At the beginning of the second quarter, Williams ate up five minutes of the clock on a scoring drive that ended with a two yard run by Williams quarterback (via Choate) B.J. Connelly, Union was by no means out of the game at this paint, but with the poor of- fensive showing in the second quarter the Dutchman defense had their hands full in keeping the deficit to only eight points, 14-6. The offensive unit had three chances to set up sonae sort of drive but each time they were stopped without a first· down. Thanks to the tough defense, Union went into the lockerroom down at halftime trailing only 14-6. In the third quarter the Dutchman defense again played well which resulted in a blocked punt by defensive end Bruce Melena at the Williams 26 yard line. This was a golden op- portunity for Union, but on their second down, Stewart ftunbled and Williams recovered at their own 28 yard line. But Union's chances were not over; three I :::;= . , ;. • ·=~ Union defense swarms the .W.illlams QB plays later Williams's quar- terback fumbled and· Tim Williamson recovered the ball and again gave the Union of- fense good field position. The Dutchmen were held to no yardage for three downs and again had to punt. This was the last real threat Union had to narrow the deficit because the offense could not produce a sustained drive deep into Williams territory. Williams offense was able to add sixteen more points due to the exhaustion of the Union defense which had played well. Twenty of Williams 30 points were due to three Union mistakes. The final score was 30-6 in Williams favor. The Dutchmen (3-3-1) travel to Middlebury in a quest for their first winning season in 10 years; they will have to win their last two games of the season to acquire this. But to beat teams like Middlebury and Hamilton, Coach Wirth will have to work on an offensive attaclt and the Dutchmen will have to minimize their mistakes. ;Hockey: Sat., Nov. 7 at 8:00 pm Tickets All Proceeds go $1.0G UNION vs. A.I.C. to Block u 1.. cu c: 1.. cu ...I cu > ~ 1./) >- .;0 0 .... 0 .c: ll. c: E 1.. 0 z c: E 1.. 0 u; >- .0 0 .... 0 .c: a. - ex . .,_ ' 1.. Q) \' 0 1- co >- .c 0 0 -a 111111111 f{l ] l De Fr th~ De thE N) pr1 ha esl thi F1 N tb S! b; st S1 y tl ol c s s· p n F p F t' t: s r ~ 1 t .J . ~( J

of- no to a be in 10 to nd ve .!: E ... 0 z I: E ... 0 November 12, 1981 CXI, Fake Paper Stuns Campus By JOE MAGUIRE Special Correspondent Just minutes after appearing on campus, a counterfeit issue of Concordiensis established itself as one of the most con- troversial publications at Union in years. The issue was produced by Jeff Mitchell, a senior, and sopliamore Rich Biegen. At a Student Forum meeting Monday night Mitchell told the Forum and about 25 others that he was surprised \beyond my wildest expectations\ at the campus's reaction to the publication. of Concordiensis, each discovered the issue almost simultaneously on Monday. Within 30 minutes Dean Spring had given Grossman per- mission to impound the issue. By the end of the .afternoon, a major campus organization had had its budget frozen as a result of the Issue. l?~udy Nydegger, Chairman of Search Committee Surprising or not, the cam- pus's reaction to the issue was clearly fast. Rachel Mandel and ·Paul Grossman, editors-in-chief The appearance of the issue was addressed at a meeting of the Student Forum in Strauss Lou·nge on Monday night. There, Pete McCaffrey, the student vice-president for finance, explained that WRUC's budget had been frozen because \it was rumored that the two editors (Mitchell and Biegen) had presented themselves (to the printer, Susquehanna Publications) as members of WRUC. Also, Jeff Mitchell is the general manager of WRUC, and it wasn't clear that the radio station wasn't sponsoring the issue.\ Dean Search Continues -By EDWARD ALBRO Applications for the post of Dean of Students are due Friday, Novemb~r 15, and so the process of choosing a new Dean is about to begin. Head of the Search Committee Rudy Nydegger said that ap- proximately 125 applications had been received. He estimated that one half to two thirds of these applications would warrant serious con- sideration. Although it is ex- pected that a number of can,.. didates will be ones affiliated wtth the Colleg.e., Prof. Nydegger did not have the specifics on any in-house candidates. The Search Committee will hold its first meeting on November 23. At thiS time, committee members will be asked to begin work on a per- Clubs Banned sonallist of ten top candidates. The next meeting will Qe used to compare these separate lists in order to narrow the field to ten to twenty candidates. Prof. Nydegger plans to use members of · the· committee as representatives of the campus constituencies, and, as such, to communicate different fac- tions' feelings on aspects of the search and the candidates. Prof. Nydegger hopes that the committee will be able to report its recommendations to the president in late January or February. Campus visits by the final candidates will begin at · this time. By EDWARD ALBRO At the eventful Student Forum meeting of Monday, November 9, it was announced that Dean of Students Don Spring has orcered a temporary ban on the activities of six student clubs: Fencing, Outing, Scuba, Ski, Stone Boat and Yacht Racing. The activities of the clubs were banned because of concern on the part of both College administrators and the Student Forum that thes._e student activities may be potentially dangerous and so may expose the College and Forwn to liability if a student participant is injured. The Forum made it clear that though all further activities by the clubs are to stop, they would still be able to continue payments · on permanent equi~~ell~' ~f.veral mem- bers!~~;e~@ thehoi?.e that the b§t'{i·~{!ll1tl tie lifted as qUickly as p$ble. s. :- .'Jfhe admiriistration's con- . 'eerns over dangerous ~c.tiyities arise from two facts. F1rst ts the . reality that any release signed 6Y a student entering into a college sponsored event has been shown to be worthless in protecting the school in court. Second is the general ·confusion as to .wnether the school's in- surance policy adequately covers participants of student activities. safety procedures for activities, and the possibility of permanent bans on certain activities. The memo continues, ''Additipnally, I would recommend that a steering committee of some sort be established by the . Forum which might solicit input from the various activities and monitor safety procedures, practices, supervision, etc.\ Possible solutions being con- sidered are the establishment of an insurance policy to cover all student activities or individual policies for_certain clubs. At press time, a meeting was scheduled for Z p.m., Wed- nesday, November 11 in Strauss Lounge with Lorraine Marra, · and representatives from the insurance company and the .effected clubs. It was hoped that through this meeting most problems caused by the ban could be alleviated. In conjunction with the search, President Morris has given the Student Affairs Committee (SAC) an in- vestigative charge which it is hoped will aid the new Dean in performing his duties. The charge reads: \I am requesting the SAC to describe and make recommendations on the role of residential life and student extracurricular experience, and the ways in which they fit into the mission of the College.\ In order to deal with the President's charge more ef- fectively, the SAC has formed five subcommittees to examine student life. They are the Fraternity-Sorority Life, Residence Life, Extracurricular Experiences, Paracademic, and Governance System Committees. The Residence Life body will Continued oa page 3 Winter Term Preregistration Notice Pre-registration materials for . winter tenn 1981-8? . will . be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Admuustrat10n Building, beginning Monday, November 16~h. Students are mged to · promptly secure their copy of these mater1als. Students who do ~ot plan to return to Union for the winter tenn, except for gradu~tmg seniors, must .immediately give notice of their plans to the O~ftce of the Dean of Students. Potential December graduates should mform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of fall term, if they have not already done so. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week.of November 16·20. Some departments may annotmce speCial arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such an- nouncements. _ . . . Course requests are due at the. Off1ce of the Regtstrar not later Biegen, who is the acting promotions director of the station, told the Forum that they had used the radio station only as an ex.ample, and that they never told the-printer that they were acting as representatives of the radio station. Both . students made it clear that the printer's bill was being sent straight to them, and not to WRUC or Concordiensis. A1 Goldberg, program director of WRUC, appeared before the Forum to state that \no station funds were used for this issue.\ Grossman outlined for the Forum the damage he and Mandel felt the issue had done. He pointed out that Mitchell's and Biegen's major offense was using the Concordiensis name and logo, but that these are not the only serious errors made by the students. \Advertisers that we have developed a working relationship with were misled into believing that they were placing ads in a 'special issue' of Concardiensis,\ Grossman explained. · The editor added that many of these\businesses are small, and the money they may have spent for the ads in the parody issue may finan- cially prohibit them from ad- vertising in later issues of Concordiensis. Julie Isgro, business manager of the paper, later ex.pressed concern that delicate relatiollships she has developed with Schenectady businesses may have been damaged by any communications Mitchell and Biegen may have had with any businessmen Mitchell and Biegen agreed to refrain from sending bills to any merchants that took ads with them. Concerning the issue of the Concordiensis name and logo, BiegeH concluded that \we're ·guilty of that.\ Grossman and Mandel, in closing, agreed tha:t the parody issue had dealt a severe blow to the credibility of Con- cordiensis, which may or may not be reversible. Biegen closed by saying that there was ''no harm intended towards anybody.\ The editors of Concordiensis asked the Student Forum to grant them permission to represent the Forum before the Conduct Committee. They reasoned that since the Student Formn is the publisher of Concordiensis, Concordiensis' grievances are the For~'s grievances. In a closed sess10n, the Forum rejected the proposal, eleven votes to zero. The Forum is \remaining neutral at this time,\ according to Vice-President Chaddick, but has sEt up a committee to in- vestigate legal matters in- . volved in this issue. Tuesday, Dean Spring ex- pressed his dissatisfaction with the outcome of the vote. \If the Student Forum is condoning fraud then I'm very concerned. They represent the students and they should have taken action.'' Mitchell and Biegen, on the other hand, were delighted at · the results of the vote. Mitchell . said that he thought the \Forum handled it very well.\ The end of the Forum meeting hardly marked the end of the problems caused by the issue. Mitchell and Biegen face a bill of over $400 for the printing of the issue. It is likely that they will be brought before the Conduct Committee by Con- cordiensis, although no charges had been lodged at press time. f Continued on page 3 l i } .. In his memorandum to the Forum, Dean Spring recom- mended investigation of the school's insurance coverage of activities, the establishment of than Monday, November 23rd. A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THEREAFJ.'ER! . Jeff Mitchell and Rich Blegen await their turn to speak at Monday's Student Forum meeting. 0 c ro :I l.J ,, c ro .... >- .0 0 0 '5.

- ,, * -.$..:/ tar- 'im >all of- L'he no md the to the a 11to ns ~en ;he 1se !lty lue :'he in vel for 10 vin :he to nd rill ve rill !ir ·= E ... 0 z E \ ... ~~ rJ) .;.; b' E ~=~ 1... cu c: ... cu ..J cu > .$! 1/) >- .;C 0 .... 0 .r:. ll. 1877 November 12# 1981 Fake Pa.per Stuns Campus ... cu 1/) c .... co >- '0 c: ~ >- .0 0 0 .c: By JOE MAGUIRE Special Correspondent J~ust minutes after appearing on campus, a .counterfeit issue of Concordiensis established itself as one of the most con- troversial publications at Union in years. The issue was produced by Jeff Mitchell, a senior, and sophomore Rich Biegen. At· a Student Forum meeting Monday night Mitchell told the ·Forum and about 25 others that he was surprised \beyond my wildest expectations\ at the campus's rEaction to the publication. a. Surprising <Jr not, the cam- pus's reaction to the issue was clearly fast. Rachel Mandel and Paul Grossman, ·editors-in-chief f~udy Nydegger, Chairman of Search Committee Dean Search ContinUes -By EDWARD ALBRO Applications for the post of Dean of Students are due Friday, Novemb~r 15, and so the process .of choosing a new Dean is about to begin. Head of the Search Committee Rudy Nydegger said that ap- proximately 125 applications had been received. He estimated that one half to two thirds of these applications would warrant serious <Jon- sideration. Although it is :ex· pected that a number of can. didates will be ones affiliated wtth the C.olle.ge, Prof. Nydegger did not have the specifics on any in-'house candidates. The Search Committee will hold its first meeting on November 23. At this time, committee members vvill be asked to begin work on a per· Clubs Banned sonallist of ten top candidates. The next meeting will be used to compare these separate lists in order to narrow tbe field to ten to twenty candidates. Prof. Nydeggerplans to use members of · the· committee as representatives of the campus constituencies, and, as such, to commu11icate different fac- tions' feelings on aspects of the search and tbe candidates. Prof. Nydegger hopes that the committee will be able to report its recommendations to the president in late January or February. Campus visits by the final candidates will begin at · this time. By EDWARD ALBRO At the eventful Student Forum meeting of Monday, November 9, it was announced that Dean. of Students Don Spring has orcered a temporary ban on the activities of six student clubs: Fencing, Outing, Scuba, Ski, Stone Boat and Yacht Racing. The activities of the clubs were banned because of concern on the part of both College administrators and the Student Forum that thes._e student activities may be potentially dangerous and so may expose the College and Forum to liability if a student participant is injured. The Forum made it clear that though all further activities by the clubs are to stop, they would still be able to continue payments · on permanent equi~~~k~d, ~~veral mem- ber~~r~~(l the \hOI?.~ that the l:!?fi'\'f#lQtll'd tie ufted as qUickly as p·o~t\ble. ~'<;:: .: _..,~he admiriistration's con- , 'eerns over dangerous activities arise from two facts. First is the reality that any release signed oy a student entering into a college sponsored event has been shown to be worthless in protecting the school in court. Second is the general confusion as to .wnether the school's in- surance policy adequately covers participants of student activities. In his memorandum to the Forum, Dean Spring recom- mended investigation of the school's insurance coverage of activities, the establishment of safety procedures for activities, and the possibility of permanent bans on certain activities_ The memo continues, \Additi9nal1y I would recommend tttat a steering committee of some scrt be established by the F ()rum which might solicit input from the various activities and monitor safety· procedures, practices, supervision, etc.\ Possible solutions being con- sidered are the establishm.Ent of an insurance policy to cover all student activities or individual policies for_certain clubs_ At press time, a meeting was scheduled for 2 p.m., Wed- nesday, November 11 in Strauss Lounge with Lorraine Mai.\ra · and representatives from the insurance company and the effected clubs. It was hope<lthat through this meeting most problems caused by the ban could be alleviated. In conjunction with the search, President Morris has given the Stadent Affairs Committee (SAC) an in- vestigative charge which it is hoped will aid the new Dean in performing his duties. The charge reads: \I am requesting the SAC to describe and make recommendations on the role of residential lif.e and student extracurricular experience, and the ways in which they fit into the mission of the College.\ In order to deal with the President's charge more ef- fectively, the SAC has formed five subcommittees to examine student life. They are the Fraternit-y-Sorority Life, Residence Life, Extracurricular Experiences, Paracademic, and Governance System Committees. The Residence Life body will Continued on page 3 Winter Term Prere~istra tion Notice Pre-registration materials for winter term 1981-8? .will .be available at the Office of. the Registrar, Room 2, Admm1stratlon Building, beginningMoada), November 16th. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do ~ot plan to return to Uni()n for the winter tenn, ex:cept for grad~tmg seniors, must immediately give notice of their plans totbe ~ftce of the Dean of Students. P()tential December graduates should mform the Office of the Registrm of their plans to finish their studies at the end of fall tenn, if they nave not already done so. Students shouldconfe:rwith Faculty Advisers during the week. of November 16-20. Sone departments may announce spec18l arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such an- nouncements. . . Course requests are dite at the Offtce of the Registrar not later than Monday, November 23rd. A TEN DOlLAR ($10.00) LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THEREAF\fER! . of Cone ordiensis, each discovered the issue almost simultaneously an Monday. Within 30 minutes Dean Spring had given Grossman per- mission to impoui!d the issue. By the end of the afternoon, a major campus organization had had its budget frozen as a result of the issue. The appearance of the issue was addressed at a meeting of the Student Forum in Strauss Louhge on Monday night. There, Pete McCaffrey, the student vice-president for finance, explained that WRUC's budget had been frozen because ''it was rumored that the two editors (Mitchell and Biegen) had presented themselves (to the printer, Susquehanna Publications) as members of WRUC. Also, Jeff Mitchell is the general manager of WRUC, and it wasn't clear that the radio station wasn't sponsoring the issue.\ Biegen, who is the acting promotions director of the station, told the Forum that they had used the radio station only as an example, and that they never told the.. printer that they were acting as representatives of the radio station. Both -students made it clear that the printer's bill was being sent straight to them, and not to WRUC or Coneordiensis. AI Goldberg, program director of WRUC, appeared before the Fortun to state that \no station funds were used for this issue.\ Grossman outlined for the ForlUil the damage he and Mandel felt the issue had done. He pointed out that Mitchell's and Biegen's major offense was using the Concordiensis name and logo, but that these are not the only serious errors made by the students. \Advertisers that we have developed a working relationship with were misled into believing that they were placing ads in a 'special issue' of Concordiensis,\ Grossman explained. · The editor added that many of these[)usinesses are small, and the money they may have spent for the ads in the parody issue may finan- cially prohibit them from ad- vertising in later issues of Concordiensis. Julie Isgro, business manager of the paper, later e:xpressed concern that delicate relationships she has developed with Schenectady businesses may have been damaged by any communications Mitchell and Biegen may have had with any businessmen Mitchell and Biegen agreed to refrain from sending bills to any merchants that took ads with them. Concerning the issue of the Concordiensis name and logo, Biegen concluded that \we're ·guilty of that.\ Grossman and Mandel, in closing~ agreed that the par-ody issue had dealt a severe blow to the credibility of Con- cordiensis, which may or may not be reversible. Biegen closed by saying that there was \no harm intended towards anybody.\ The editors of Con.~()rdiensis asked the Student Forum to grant them permissio11 to represent the Forum before the Conduct Committee. 'I'hey reasoned that since the St11dent Forum is the · publisher of Concordiensis, Con<!ordiensis' grievances are the Fonun's grievances. In a closed. session, the Forum rejected the proposal, eleven votes to zero. The Forum is \remaining neutral at this time,\ according to Vice-President Chaddick:, but has set up a corrunittee to in- vestigate legal m2tters in- . volved in this issue. Tuesday, Dean Spring ex- pressed his dissatisfaction with the outcome of the V()te. \If the Student Forwn is condoning fraud then I'm very concerned. They represent the students and they should have taken action.\ Mitchell and Biegen, on the other hand, were delighted at · the results of the vote. Mitchell . said that he thought the \Forum handled it very well.\ The end of the Forlllll meeting hardly marked the end of the problems caused by the issue. Mitchell and Biegen face a bill of over $400 for the printing of the issue. It is likely tha1 they will be brought before the Conduct Committee by Con- cordiensis, although no charges had been lodged at press time. f Continued on page 3 Jeff Mitchell and Rich Biegen await their turn to speak at Monday's Student 'Forum meeting.

Page 2 OONCORDIENSIS, NovembeT 1!, 1981 Student Employees Concerned: Aid Opportunities By JOEY BECKERMAN A variety of sources of aid and employment are available to Union students. One means which the college has to help students is the College Work Study Program, which-is funded in part by money given to the college by the federal govern- ment t0 pay student workers. A second source is the Union College Work Program, for- merly known as grant-in-aid, by which students are·given a job and paid by funds from the school's financial aid budget as part of their financial aid package. The third area through which students can receive financial assistance is from departmentally budgeted student aid jobs. This last area furnishes the largest dollar amount of wages paid to students at Union but is not formally budgeted through the financial aid program. Various departments in the school, like the athletic and food service departments, have funds to hire student workers. Although preference is given to students who need aid, a student who has worked in the past and has done a good job usually will not be denied a job in the following year. One of the biggest myths concerning this area is that if a student earns above a certain arr1ow~t from his or her job, aid will be cut. Massa stated that it is the college's feeling that if a student has the incentive to earn more money, his-her scholarship aid should not be reduced. The college would, however, expect the student to maintain his or her increased work level in the following year. Thi-s would.enable the student to meet part of the yearly cost of attending Union and so reduce the student's loan burden. A student earning more money could also receive additional aid if his or her overall need in- creases. Massa summed up by saying that continued aid to students will depend on the amount of funding the school rEceives. The cuts made by the Reagan AdminiStration could have an effect. Robert J. Massa, Director of Financial Aid 5 Man Suites Reviewed By DOUG LANDON The campus stereotype of five-person suites is usually not Traits Link Musicians a favorable image, but perhaps without sound reason. Accor- ding to Mr. David Wood, Director of Residence Life, no more evidence of . discon- tentment emulates from five- person suite inhabitants than from those of other campus housing plans. Wood's office is basically even between students living in four- and five-person suites, and roommate· ties remain equally strong. This is indicated by the fact that suitemates s.eldom move out even when the option of relocating is given. Wood notices no pattern of students who lived in five- person suites as freshmen avoiding suites in future years. In fact, he points out that this year a number of upperclass women opted for five-person suites rather :than run the risk of (CNB)-If you play a per- cussion instrument, you're probably seen as loud, ex- troverted, and sexually active, while your neighbor in the woodwinds section is perceived as more feminine, quiet, and intelligent. Are these just timewark stereotypes? Maybe so, but there might be a kernel of truth in them, according to Psychology , Department researchers Jack P. Lipton and Scott Builione. Lipton is an assistant professor of psychology at the College, and Builione, from Monsey, N.Y., is a junior psychology major. In a study called \Personality Traits and Stereotypes of Classical Musicians,\ recently presented to the American Psychological · Association convention, Lipton and Builione note, \There are definitely similar personality traits among musicians in the same section of the orchestra and different personality traits bet ween the sections.\ Further, they report, \Musicians in each section seem to have the same perception of members of their own section as do other mem hers of the orchestra.'' The sections they refer to are brass, woodwind, string, and per- cussion. Lipton and Builione surveyed 100 high school students in three different musical organizations - wind ensemble, concert band, and orchestra. Each student filled out a questionnaire that included items dealing with basic demographic variables, such as age and sex; per- sonality traits, such as ex- troversion-introversion and - sense of humor; and social psychological factors, such as alcohol consumption and athletic ability. Additionally, the questionnaire was designed to assess each musician's stereotypes about musicians in his or her own section, as well as in the other three sections. \The results revealed striking differences among the sections on a number of the measures,\ Lipton and Builione report. \For example, the brass section ranked highest in athletic ability; this corroborates the anecdotal stereotype of the brass player. Also, the results indicated brass players to be the most ex- troverted, which is certainly in line with the common con~ ception of brass players, if not the brass instruments them- selves.\ The final section of the questionnaire, dealing directly with stereotypes, is particularly rich with findings, according to the researchers. \Brass players, for instance, were characterized by the brass players themselves as sexual, tough, athletic, and humorous, while other musicians tended to characterize brass players as outgoing, loud, and 'macho,\' Lipton and Builione report. Woodwind and string players were seen by themselves and others as more feminine, in- tellectual, and quiet, while percussionists were perceived as being loud, extroverted, and sexually active. In any study of this type, Lipton and Builione caution, other questions need to be addressed. For example, it's not known whether individuals' Student Forum The Student Forum, at its Monday meeting heard a request. from the Editors-in- Chief of Concordiensis to have the newspaper represent the Forum before the Condu~t Committee with respect to the parody issue that was distributed Monday, November 9. rsee article page 1.) The Forum will discuss this matter further at its next meeting on Monday, November 16. Earlier, a letter from Dean Spring was read report~n!S. a temporary ban of the activities of the Fencing, Outing, Scuba, Ski, Stone Boat, an~ Yacht racing clubs. (See article page 1.) The Inter Fraternity Council reported that a fraternity picnic will replace the fraternity ball this year. Iyt addition, the Student Affairs Council reported Security's approval of the final party policy. This letter will be reviewed by the Forum at its next meeting. The Forum will also discuss the IFC's report concerning the International convention and will hear a request by Planning and Priorities Committee representatives. Committee reports will also be heard and the agendy and minutes will be ratified. personalities predispose them towards playing a particular musical instrwnent or whether extended experience with · certain instruments alters their personality. · More research in this area is needed, according to Lipton. In the past, the \.psychology of music\ has dealt with such concepts as auditory perception and not with the overlap bet- ween music and social or personality psychology. Lipton and Builione are currently expanding their research and have sent questionnaires to more than 75 professional symphony orchestras in the U.S. and Canada. They hope to have preliminary results of this second phase of their research by the end of the year. Builione, a 1979 graduate of Ramapo Senior High School in Mr. Wood views the five- person suite as a \temporary housing situation for freshmen\ and readily concedes that he wishes the set up was not needed. However, with enrollment at its present figure, circumstances necessitate the additional suitemate. Five-person suites have not been found to be detrimental to student attitude or academic performance, now that the fifth bed has been positioned in one of the bedrooms and no longer in the living room. A certain amount of privacy, though, is obviously lost. The amount of complaints to being separated. , Because of current trends of demographic movement in the United States from the Snow Belt to 'the South and Southwest, and the possible downward effect this could have on Nor- theast college enrollment, the administration has no im- mediate plans to expand campus housing. \\Spring Valley, N.Y., is the .son of Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Builione of Grandview Ave., Monsey. A keyboard musician since the age of six, Builione would like to pursue a career in clinical psychology, where he sees \a great potential for the use of music as one form of therapy.\ Dave Wood, Director of Residence Life The Daley Planet: Student Paper Sued (CPS)-D.C. Comics and its parent company, Warner Communications, have sued a student newspaper to get it to change its name. D.C. Comics, according to attorney Louise Denbeck, maintains that the paper at Richard J. Daley City College, called the Daley Planet, in- fringes on its trademarks associated with Superman. Clark Kent, Lois Lane, Jimmy Olsen and Perry Wbite, of course, all worked at the fictional Daily Planet in the Superman adventures. Denbeck says the suit was filed after \we pleaded with\ the paper to change its name. Marquette Gives Oka_y: With its current masthead, the paper is \diluting and destroying a very valuable trademark.\ \I think we're being more adult about this than Warner is,\ replies Daley Planet editor Rhonda Forrest. \For them to come down on us like that is really nitpicky.\ Anti-Red Group Formed (CPS)-The Marquette student government has finally recognized a conservative student group that aims . to spread Catholic and anti- communist literature among Marquette students. Marquette senators approved the constitution of the group, called Speak' Out, just a month after rejecting it on several technical grounds. A number of senators admitted that they'd voted against Slpeak Out out of antipathy to the group's political stance and av<>Wed propagandistic purpose. They officially rejected Speak Out because it did. not elect its officers democratically. Speak Out subsequently revised its constitution, which finally passed. Some senators were still opposed to the group at the second vote. \It is a question of whether (Speak Out) would restrict others' freedom,\ Senator Richard Berg told the Marquetee Tribune. \People with Marxist ideas should be able to voice them.\ \- G.> ~ I- co u >- \C c ~ >- .c 0 .,_ 0 ..c: 0. 0 c .!!! '5 C) (V c: Ill .., >- .0 0 .... 0' ;:: c. ( a r . ( t

en Ir- nd Uy he tm on of re- en rs. 1is ISS on of of he )W st, rd lr- he n- nd the .nd )le )re 1er tor to is ;ill ;he of llld I,.' ' ;he ple be l 0 c -~ \5 C)• ----------------------------------~~o_o_v_o_o~R-D~!_B_N_s_z_s,~N_o_v_em_· _'b_e_~·-t~~~t9~8~1--------------------~----------Page3 ,,J4·•-... i'fi(,H>q fn1 dd -1 . ' The issue at hand Campus Boycotts By STEVEN FALLON In recent mohths the Nestle Corporation has come under attack by many people for promoting ''Baby Bottle\ . disease in Third World coun- tries. INFACT (Infant Formula Action Coalition) is now sponsoring a Nestle tJoycott to coffee ruachine is still in use at Hale h.ouse. Jan Grey said that the Jnaahine has been llSed because.()f its ease of operation and that it would be replaced if a C()Jll.parabl~ dispenser coUld be found at the same price. The Bookston~. which sells candy-, has also joined in the boyc:ott. Counterfeit Concordy Conflnued from page 1 It is also possible that the Student Forum will lodge charges of its own. They might have infringed upon Con~ cordiensis' copyrights, although no one is sure, arid Mike Andolina feels that civil proceedings are a \very unlikely\ result of this event. Refening ~o this issue, President Morris tQld Con~ co rdiensis officials Tuesday that \the Forum ought to be concerned about both the people that wet;e misrepresented and their own trademark-- 'Concordiensis'.\ It tetnains to he seen if anything will happen to Mitchell and Biegen, but it appears that the t~pic will not soon· be forgotten. In his closing statement -to- the Forum -on Monday night, Mitchell said that the measure of success of any lampoon is its impact, and that \flbviously this was pretty successful.\ Success or not, the impact certainly was there. Editor's Note: Mr. Maguire.was asked to report this story as he is not a member of Con- cordierrsis, nor does be have any attachment to either .of the students responsible for the counterf.eit issue of Con- cordiensis. Mr. Maguire is a former news editor for Con- cordiensis. but this we feel is Dear relevant only ill that he has proven himself to be a most able journalist, and Dne who could present this important story fairly and dearly. We., the editors of the paroc:ly issue of Concordiensis, apolqgize to the entire adtniniat:ration and student body of Union CoJ.lege, especially to the editors of Concordiensis, and to whome~er else it may concern, for any misconceptions which ma;y ha1re arisen from it. 'rhe issue, dated Monday. November 9 • and bearing th~ Concordiensis logo, was designed to· be a lwnpoon, and was not in any way intended to slander, offend, -trouble • or upset anyone, We had hoped, by shining a humorous light on campus .. events, to make people smile, We stress \tha;t the parody ~as the work of the undersigned, completely autonomous !rom~ and without sanction of, Concord·Len~lis, Sincere-ly. Jeffrey s, Mitchell., editor Richard s. Biegen, editor The textoffhe formal apology ande:xplanation cir-culated by Biegen and Mitchell halt the Irresponsible sale of baby ·formula by putting I financial .pressure on the company. INF ACT is a worldwide organization, and its effects have been felt here on · . campus. Yet the question may Unity of Brain Studied · be asked: Has Union College done anythin.g to join in the hoycott against Nestle? Nestle has come under attack for what many people believe to be an irresponsible promotion of infant formula to Third World mothers, regardless of the consequences. Nestle gives out free samples to mothers and through advertising urgesthem to buy more· of the product. These women are susceptible to the influences of the media and to the promise of healthier babies. They hotter .spend a large portion o'f their monthly wages on the bottle formula. However, breast feeding is a cheaper, more nutritious, and easHy accessible method. Due to Nestle's promotion, the women do not breast feed; they rely on bottle-feeding, an exp.ensive alternative that could lead to malnutrition. INF ACT has sponsored a boycott to put financial pressure on Nestle. Jan Gray, th~ director of Union College Food Services, said that Nestle products have been phased out of use in both Hale house and West cafeteria. In addition, Nestle's candy is no longer offered by the Dutch Hollow Pub or Achilles rink. However, the boycott is not total since a Nestle's \Taster's Choice\ CNB- \The popular con- ception()£ 'right brain' and 'left brain~ thinking is a gross oversimplification,\ Psy-cho- logy professor Rudy V. Nydegger says. ' 'While specialiU:ltion may occur- to some extent, it is more often tb.e case that the brain works as a fully integrated unit and not as a collection of discrete processing capacities.\ · Nydegger, an assoeifite professH and chairman of the College Psychology Depart· ment, is conducting research with Ted Bashore of the University of Illinois to detel'Ylline how the cerebral hemispll.eres differ in the way .in which they respond to and pr()cess different types of in· formation. Part of the ·initial studv was completed as a senior h()nor thesis by 1980 Uni<on . graduate Harry Miller of Roslyn, N.Y. Ther.e is specialization bet- ween the right and left cerebral hemisphet·es in terms d v.rll.at infornH:ltion is processed most easily, Nydegger says. Studies in tile last 20 years on '\split- brain\ or co!Ilmissur()tornited patients (those with the cross conrt ections or commissm·es betw\€en the right and left hemispheres severed to control severe epileptic seizures) llllve Committee Appointments The following committee appointtnel'lts were made after recommendations by the CommittEe on Committees and approval of the Student Forum on Monclay, November 2.: Socia I Committee Mary Phillips Shari Midoneck Michele lsele Film Committee Dave Tarbay Andy Rosen Naomi Blank Peter Wool Tommy Wang Ching E lections Com m iftee Rita Lindenberg Scott Witkin Mary Kowalczyk Dah Rosenthal Concert Committee Diane Pavacic Sharon Bellingson R~sident Life Comrwlittee Vivian Stern Laurie Corkum Traffic & Pet Court Dan Laby Ken Adler Mike Kleih Matthew Nankin Philip Lanza Wesley HC~rris, HI Speakers FonJill Lori Kaplall Research & Grant Geoffrey Kots Union University Rep_ · Tracy Hoffrnar. shown that the left hemisphere processes analytic and sequentially -ordered in- formation, while the right henisphere processes analytic and sequentially ordered in- formation, while the right hemisphere is more attuned to wholistic and impressionistic stimuli. Much of this work has been done at the California Institute of Technology by Dr. Roger W. Sperry, who was recently awarded the Nobel Frize for medicine. What Nydegger and Bashore's work has shown is that \while specific areas of the brain are more or less likely to process certain information rnore easily, there is constant communication and sharing of information between thE' hemispheres.\ Using a methodology that allows them to determine how rapidly information presented selectively to one or the other of the cerebral hemispheres is processed, Nydegger and Bashore have found that \regardless of which , hemisphere is -geared toward processing the information more quickly, the difference dec!'eases over trials.\ For example, while individuals may name letters more rapidly when they are presented to the left United Way: side of the hrai.n, they will, after repeated tr-ials, name the let- ters just as quickly when they are presented to the right side of the brain. This indicates, Nydegger says, that the cerebral hemispheres have \shared\ information about this task so that either ean perform it equally as well. examine housing, food service and other basic life services and the Paracademic group will investigate career planning and placement and the paracademic clubs such as the Pre-Law or Pre-Health clubs. Each committee will require three student members. In addition, the members of the SAC discussed ways of acquiring student feedback. It i:; popular today, Nydegger Different possibilities which says, to talk about helping were forwarded were the use of people \get in touch with their Concordiensis, asking for right hemisphere,\ to free them testimony by students, and the from their analytical side and holding of a series of open let them elCJlress their creative meetings. The members of the side. \While it's tempting tC> SAC believe that through this talk aboul the difference l>et- process the committee can ween right and left hemispheres more fully understand student at an abstract level,\ Nydegger · activities on campus and more says, \it makes much less sense closely define the role of the at a neurological level. C()n- Dean of Student~. . sciousness is not a right or left Search Co~mtttee chairman hemisphere phenomenon.\ -- Nydegger satd that he had Nydegger, much of whose requested that such a stu~y be work has been in the area of undertaken because he beheved human information processing that \it was essential that a feels researchers are only person eomi_ng into the J?~an of beginning to understand· the Students office have a v1s1on of intricat,e workings of the hwnan wha~ will be expected.\ _He brain. \'The brain works as an contmued, however, bv saymg intearated whole not as a that the SAC's findings would coll:cticm .of special, localized not make a strong impresS~·m functions. We're just getting to on 'he ~~arch process. \I th~nk the point where we can ap- thr S~'-'. ~ ~!1an;e 1s rot a )·Jb preciate this complexit:y,'' de:..crmt1c n, l'Uf. a genex al Nydegger says. r e '?om mend .1 t 1 on a 1 d philosophv, Nydeg~er said. Agencies Seek Volunteers -- Over twepty- three United Way agencies exist in Schenectady County. Each fall United Way seeks volunteers and support from the local community. Many Union College students are presently involved in these organizations. Big Brothers and Big Sisters of Schenectady County is one of the agencies in Which many students involve tliemselves. These students work with boys and girls between the ages of seven and seventeen. The student volunteers spend at least four hours each week with the child for a year. More than one hundred children are awaiting big brothers and big sisters. For further in- volvement call 374-1872. The American RE:d Cross is the most visible of the United Way agencies. Other than blood bank setvices, the Red Cross supports first aid and water safety programs, disaster relief, and the operation of specially equipped vans for low- income elderly and the 11an- dicapped. Call 393-3606 for further information. The United Cerebral P'alsy Association sponsors programs of special education, .social development,and rehabilitation services for people of allages. Day care~ I'ecreational Sllirlrner camp, and home-support prograrns for the parents of handicapped children are among thP programs availabl·. The United Way 'f Schenectady Count v proYid( s financial support, rr am1geme1 t assistance, and budget revie v for voluntarv human servi< e agencies, muong others h addition, the United Wav supports a number of healtl•- related projects and the pyr- chase of seriously needed hospital equ.ipment at St. Clare's. Sunnyview, and Ellis Hospitals. United Way has also supported the Hospice of Schenectady, the Schenectady Community Head Start Health Screening for pre-schoo 1 children, and the Northeast Post Stroke Association.

1... .~ tC > a <1.1 c: tC -, >- ..0 0 ...... Page 4 ' '. O()NOORDI:ENSliS, No1Jember 1M, 1981 features Creating Canoes:. A La Concrete By BRIAN QUINT _g.~ 0. Many things in :this world seem mighty coftkadictory. An ostrich is a birp. that can't ~y. Tile moon can be seen durmg the daytime. John Davidson is a talk-show host. The concrete canoes made by our own Stone Boat Club may be Union's answer to ostrich~s and John see-my-dimples Davidson. After all, you'd e:x;pect the craft to sink just as fast as your nine- month-old baby sister does in a swimming pool. However, it doesn't. The boat floats. layer of cement is thick enough to cover the screen and able to withstand the pressure of the water. Hold on to your hats, sports fans, because this is the secret to the whole thing. The concrete isn't really just con- crete. Microballoons and styrofoam beads (bean ba.g chairs are made out of them) are added to the cement mix- ture. According to Jane Webb, that's where the fun is, because the right mixture can determine whether the craft sails like the Love Boat or does a voyage to the bottom of the sea-so to speak. The combinations of the materials are numerous. It's sort of like D. Booth figuring out what to do with fuzzy, red pipe cleaners. That is, the list can go on and on. It's the same with the · make-up df the stone boats. The concrete canoes made by our Stone Boat Club actuany .float. Sex: A Humorous Issue? Before you start scratching your heads, wondering which witch doctor was SijiiJ.moned to perform hocus-pocus on the cement yacht, here's the gist of h()w these things are created. According to Jane Webb, co- president of the Stone Boat Club, the boat is formed around a wooden mold similar to an upside-down canoe. This is called a \male mold.\ The concrete isn't just slapped onto the mold. It's a .more careful process than that. First, a layer· of plastic-.stuff similar to Hefty bags-is applied. Then, metal screen, similar · to the stuff missing from some of the dorm room windows, is put on top of the plastic. ByRIT Sex is no laughing matter. It might be fun, but it isn't funny. Unless, of course, it's sex at Union. Union has its own unique patterns of sexual behavior and a pattern somewhat laughable at that. Union sex is funny. humorous. The fraternity system has become a metap11or for loose values. Union's Greek are behind this, too. Union F'rat parties are often similar to meat markets. Two bold Union females with chutzpah w~re recently seen at a Fraternity party with tags reading ''T- Bone\ and \Pot Roast.\ Pledges must often get lucky or get going. The drinks at thEse parties are mixed to e::~se certain inhibitions. Their names \Hop-Skip and Go Naked\e~re often indicative of what's on everybody's mind. All in ~ill, Union Greeks are more like Romans than anybody else. Independents are not saints. either. Sex in the dorms is pretty funny too. All the thought and preparation to fooling around often leads people to question whether it's all worth it. You have to set up systems and schedules with your roommate to avoid conflicts and 1m- compromising situations. The The College itself contributes to our unique brand of sexual interrelationships. The sexual academic opportunities are multiple. \Sex and Sexuality\ is one of Union's most popular courses, and funniest courses too. Past lectures have dealt with angles of.· dangles, sperm and you, and ten ways to cook crab legs. The sex test's Chapter Eight (Sexual Techniques) is more widely read on campus than Plato's Republic, Concordiensis and Dean Nelson's best seller \Plagerism: A Cautionary Word to Students\ combined. The physical plan of the campus is funny too. What other campus in America has a tremendous erogenous zone as its symbol'O the College simply does little to quell the call of hormones. old, wrap-the-tie-around-the- . It takes two to tangle, .sort-a- speak, and how boy meet's girl (or vice versa) at Union is door-knob-method to warn y<mr roommate that you are busier than he is, is still a common practice around here. Dorm sex is a risky business. The fire drill SCHNAPPS BEER • J.I .1.1. .J.I .. J.I .1.1 J.l ~:t ~ \\ H ~ H r- ~ ·- !- Sculpture Techniques ·- ~ The Department of the Arts will be giving c ~ series of practical demonstrations in sculptural techniques: how to work with wood, clay, plaster, stone and metal. Demonstrations will ~be given by sculptor Alex Markhoff, and deal w1th tool sharpening, joint design, roughing out, cmd carving. They will be held on Thursdays, .from3- 5 p.m. in the sculpture studio, Arts Building, room 115. All are invited to attend. November 12--Wood Ill November 19--Piaster I December 3--Piaster II has put more fear into freshman passion than :mothers .. Someone I know once set off the alarm in West one night just to take in- ventory of who was sleeping with whom. Moving off campus or getting a single room opens new sexual h.orizons. Union students dealt with the possible consequences of sex in a number of \'ays. Some Union students might not be mature enough to h~ve sex, many at least are mature enough to understand the consequences. Getting pregnant or getting someone pregnant isn't fun or funny. It is serious. And that's no laughing rna tter. Next, the concrete goes on the conglomeration so that the Veggie Delights 1 cup finely chopped onions lh cup finely chopped celery 1 cup grated carrots 1 /2 cup frozen or fresh green beans lf2 cup peas 1 egg, well beaten 4 tbspns matzo meal, com meal, or finely ground cracker crumbs lf4 tspn ground black pepp~r lh tspn Worcemershire or soy sauce (opt.) slices of Swiss or American cheese (opt.) 1. Bring o/4 cup of water to boil in a skillet, add o{li.on; cook until half done. 2. Add beans and peas, and add more water if necessary; cook Ulltil all water is gone. . . 3. Add egg and combine with pepper, vegetables, matzo meal, and soy or 'Worcestershire sauce. 4. Form il'lto patties 5. Bake at 400 degrees for 20 min., topping with sliced cheese the last 3-5 min., if desired. Marty Granger Are.<J Director of Youth for Christ Will be speaking on the New Testament Wednesday, Nov. 18th 7:30-8:30 p.m. Banquet Room of Carnagie Sponsored by Union College Christian Fellowship The· Electric Grin ell Presents It takes about ten days for the concrete today, and when it does, it contracts onto the mold tighter than one of those \Mission Impossible\ masks that Martin Landau used to wear. It's impossible to get the mold out. To avoid this, the mold is separated into two pieces and a layer of styrofoam is inserted horizontally between the two pieces before tbe con- crete has been added. After drying, the foam insert is chipped away; the mold \pops\ out and, viola, the craft is created. The outside has to be sandpapered-by hand-to cut down on the resistance in the water. Sandpapering ceroent is like digging a grave with a paper cocaine spoon-it's a long, hard · job. The addition of a middle support beam, called a thwart, and paint are the final touches before the \Union label'' is added. In recent years, there have been charges that everything from moontrips to Watergate were noghing but hoaxes. This inquiry might be applied to the stone boats. Do these things ever get to hear the roar of the rapids and the smell of slimy algae (the kind that gets in between your toes when you go wading)? Professor Thomas Jewell, faculty advisor to the group, says definitely yes. He points out that Union's ·entries in the concrete .cano~ contests do swimmingly. According to those in the kinow, the boats generally race on a triangular course on a lake. The con- testants encounter such things as straight-aways, curves and crashing boats--things that would make Jackie Stewart proud. Until such tournaments, which will occur later this year, construction is the name of the game> Jewell and company mold; sandpaper, and - float, . appropriately enough, in the fluids lab in Butterfield Hall . However, an anonymous source indicates those interested better hurry-the fluids lab hasn't been on solid ground for years. Managing by New Horizon Productions For Bookings Ca II : 346-7907 154 Erie Blvd. Pizza,, Spirits & ~od Times at 1 'TH~ ELECTRIC GRINCH'' 346-2280 ] B~ p sab stw rne· ne~ add mo1 aw~ Int• Fel by JHOJ Hu De, A say car cqa out (or pre tre: tho ha' phi dis, v an ret: me arc inc dis tre COl Th ce1 . a1 ch; COl in. p ] Pt ha sh on lis th el« ofl ml be h<J ar fii w~ te su dE e:; of a1 d~ te al cl th sl 01 pl n: U] a1 g: p: w

I gh to he ts, he he tn- ld :J.g n) ix- lb, se ne he to to he t's tUt pe go he· he it tld se ks to he he wo tm en m- ;er is s\ is be !Ut he is a lg, a la tal on .ve ng 1te hls ;he tgs ;he ny in go .as ;he He ies sts to ats lar on- tgs tnd tat art tts, ar, the my ,at, the lll. rce ter ~en OONOORJ)IENSIS, November 1~, 1981 Page 5 feature Hospital Ethics Studied By AMELIA A. TERHUNE Profes_sor Robert Baker, on sabbatical until Winter '83, is study·ing the moral methodology of adult and newborn intensive care units. tn addition to his Union sa llbaticl:!l money, Prof. Baker has been awarded an eighteen month Interdisciplinary Incentive Fellowship by EVIST (funded by NEH and NSF), as well as money from the Union .C:ollege Humanities Faeulty Development Fund. A philosopher, Prof. Baker says, \I am visiting iEtensive care units all over the East CQast . . . I am trying to figure out how to terminate treatment (or, as they put it in the popular press, to pull the pl:ug)-I'm treating each medical unit as though they're philosophers and have worked out a systematic philosophy for when to discontinue treatment.~' Professor Bak~r, in doing his study, is also exploring an alternative tQ this \applied ethical theory,\ or\armchair approach now being used in biomedical ethics. Because Of this, his working day starts very early. He attends the morning rounds (which he frequently tapes) and listens to informal information being passed from ene shift to the next. Lunch is also a working occasion for him;. he eats witli a nurse; an intern, or a doctor, discussing cases with him or her. In the afternoon, he spends his time intervlewing people about the cases-the families of patients, patients, if they can talk, and all the staff. He oftep discusses decisions that have been made at other hospitals with them. and work up from there. \I teach a course in medical ethics every year, and I hope to give a seminar in this when I get baek. I'd like to teach it jointly with Prof. Terry Weiner. By the way, the last time I had a major grant like this, it resulted in the Socialized Medical Program. \The kind of work I do .gets a lot of publicity in professional journals such as \The Newsletter on Philosophy and Medicine\ of the American · Philosophical Association. This kind of work has .publicity value for the college,- it makes people in the academic world aware that interesting things are going on at Union.\ Professor Baker, when asked if he anticipated having any effect on how decisions to \pull- the-plug\ are m!ide, answered \Not the immediate studies I am going to try to use this as a basis for a larger study. I want to act as a catalyst to get physicians together to set up guidelines for such decision making. I have been asked to Prof. Robert Baker is studying the moral methodology of adult and newborn intensive care units. give testimony to the Presidential Committee on Medical Ethics.'' Planning to spend nine months of his eighteen-month sabbatical in the field (three months on the field, three months writing, etc.), Professor Baker may now be found in the Humanities Building, typing furiously away on the word- precessor practicing \inductive philosophy.\ When asked if the staff have an objection to his visits, he replied, \No most of those I've met are interested in having me around. Some hospitals are inconsistent in their decisions to discontinue life-sustaining treatments, and they aren't consistent between each other. They are aware of this to a certain extent- they suspect it- -and my presence gives them a chance to reflect on this. Of course, not all hospitals let me He has found that there is a difference in how . doctors, nurses and technicians feel, think, about decisions to disconnect life-support systems, \no-code\ patients, etc. Nurses tend to be more in favor of continuing the patient's life, while physicians do not want to prolong death. Asked about the broad aims of his research, Prof. Baker stated, \Philosophers usually do philosophy by sitting back in their armchairs and thinking. I'm trying to do \inductive ethics''; that is, to build on the basis of individual experience Freshmen Daydreaming in.\ . Photo Club: By WILLIAM WASCHLAPPEN I happened to be walking through the Administration building the other day when I noticed a door with a rather strange sign: \Eustace T. Firefly, Dean of Student Irritation.\ Curious, I knocked Plans Increase on the door. A gum-smacking secretary opened the door for me and asked me to take a seat. As I waited for what seemed ByB.H.L. The Union ,College Photography Club (Ph()to Clu.b) has been transformed from a sleeping giant into a club w~th one of the largest membership lists on campus. Last year on the night designated for the election of new officers, two officers and only three other members showed up. like hours in a somewhat l,lil· in photography and darkroom comfortable chair, the techniques. secretary alternately smacked The membership dues for the her gum and made noises club are a meager five dollars a similar to Felix Unger's term, which entitles you to honking on \The Odd Couple.\ darkroqm usage and other I was getting ready to leave benefits. One of the major when Mr. Firefly appeared. He benefits takes the form of a led me into his office, and I took Berns Photo Discount Card. For a seat in another even more the nominal additional charge uncomfortable chair. of one dollar, this card entitles \Well he asked, \What is it the bearer to a twenty percent you want?\ Suddenly it hit me discount on free film on in· that I had nQ reason to be there; dependent processing, a ten I had just been wondering about percent discount on paper and the sign. Then it hit me. I pulled chemical supplies, a ten percent out my Calculus notebook, discount on all pegboard grabbed a pencil, and told him I merchandise and five percent was a reported for the Con~ off on all film purchases. dordiensis, Willi J. The club is making plans for a - Waschlappen. The following is a speaker sometime in the winter record of our conversation: Q: MR. Firefly, just what are your duties as \Dean of Student Irritation?\ · A: Well, it's a rather multi- faceted job. I work with all of the departments, dealing with subjects such as when to time fire drills, when to place vacations, and how to run West College. Q: Do you mean that your whole purpose on this campus is to make life more difficult for students? A: Why sure. Living in such a utopic community where everything is done to your preferences, you kids might get the wrong impression of what the real world is like out there. For instance, if you just were allowed to eat your meals in peace, or allowed to take food out when you want to, you'd be spoiled. That's why one leg is sawed off of every table in the dining hall. That's why fire drills are at 3 a.m. Q: What kind of qualifications does a person need for a job like this? A: Well, originally I was going for my BA in Showing off at the College of Behaviour at Harvard. I was taking a course in Being Obnoxious when you show eff, and I just got so into it that I knew annoyance was my field. I went on to get my Master's in \Being an SOB\ and then I got my PhD in Irritation. Well, dear reader, I could have gone on, but the seat, as well as th~ secretary and Mr. Firefly were getting to be, well, irritating. I have come to conclude that this is definitely the most underrated depart- ment in the College, and should definitely be given greater consideration when deter- mining the Administration's budget. (Editor's note: This article was actually written by R Sch- weitzer, a freshman. We don't believe a word of it, but publish it only as an admonition to other freshmen concerning the effects of daydreaming at college. Mr. Schweitzer flunked out las 1 week.) Well,. these three people have become the new officers and have managed to bring thls club around to the point where, at the first meeting this fall, there were 56 eager people who at- tended. Perhaps the key to this success has been the club's decision to form subcommittees each responsible for an aspect of the club's operation. There are nine people who serve as darkroom managers (three per term) , whose respo11si bilities are to order the necessary chemi~als and to ensure that the darkroom is kept in good shape; there are another eight or nine people who wo:r1k on club publicity to inform club members and the campus of upcoming meetings and events; and additionally there is a group of ten experienced photographers, wllo are working to set up a mini course term. They are also making plans to organize a Parents' Weekend photo contest and exhibitions. They have in the past organized a field trip te Kodak in Rochester, N.Y., and FEARLESS ·FACULTY hope to do so again this year. Another tradition they would like to continue is a photo- shooting field trip._ Last year, photographers went out onto downtown State Street at 4:00 a.m. to capture a sleeping Schenectady, and hopefully this year the field trip can extend even farther off the campus grounds. SKI EUROPE FC>r LESS Than -· . ,) - 'Skiing the U.S.A. ~:: ;-.- _ INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA J.~· _ ~·. ,; Jan. 28 - Feb. 5th, \1982 ~ ~!.:.-. • INCLUDES • ~ $81·9 RT AlrlHotel Atnorlcon$ocloty '•Meals & More oi\Qwl~ ·per person from Schenectady EASTER CRUISE April 10·17, 1981 'I· 7 DAY CARIB. CRUISE R.T. Alr·Aib. lo Mloml All Cruise Amanlllas S.S. Fosllv•le - -· -- - Van Curler Travel Inc. ~~ Schenectady 61 1 Stale Street· 374-3176 UNION STUDENTs-We book all kinds of travel including terms, abroad, trips home, etc. ' VARSITY VOLLEYBALL CHALLENGE MATCH WED., NOV. 18 .. 7 p.m. FIELD HOUSE Come Wafclt the faculty be Victorious I

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, November 1B, 1981 ~rts & Culture O'Neill's, Long Day's ]ourne.r Into Night: Union College Conce,rt Committee and Budweiser present An evening of mush: and c:tance featuring ''In Tears Of Bloo,d'' The Go-Go's By BETSY The function of much of art and literature, is to make us sympathetic to others and tolerant to ourselves. Eugene O'Neill attempts to understand the human situation in what is often considered his finest achievement, Long Day's Journey Into Night. O'Neill was extremely concerned with in~ terpersonal · relationshipS and ·human shortcomings. In Long Day's Journey, the plot is modeled after O'Neill's own family life, and represents a painful but realistic picture of his world. O'Neill suggests throughout · that faith and hope in the future are essential elements of human life, and that without these things, the human con- dition inevitably shatters. His concern is with man's place in the scheme of the universe and with a seaFch for some un- derlying meaning to life. In Long Day's Journey. O'Neill seems to resign himself to the cynical belief in an existence without God and therefore an existence in despair. . Lond Day's Journey was not published until after 0 1 Neill's death at which time his wife received the rights to it. O'Neill claims in the dedication, to have written the play \ln tears of blood.\ It is evident that the play, in mirroring his own life, exemplifies the pain and sorrow which he, as a hwnan creature, experienced. Long Day's Journey Into Night was made into a motion picture in 1962. The reproduction from the Pulitzer Prize winning play is an ex- cellept one and has received international aeclaim. O'Neill's play script was used in the production. No screenplay cauld possibly have been better than the original. 'The movie features Katharine Hepbu.;n, Ralph Richardso.n, Jason Robards, Jr.,. and Dean Stock- well, and was directed by Sidney Lurnet. The English Department is .sponsoring a showing of O'Neill's play. The picture will be shown on Thursday night, November 12, at 7:00p.m. in SS016,and is free of charge. Cabaret: Wifh Special Guest Joe King Curr~sco Monday, November 23rd, 8:00p.m.· Alumni Gym 25c Dra.ffs Tickets on sale in Carneg.ie Tomorrow-Friday, November 13th, $5 with Union I.D. You'll Get Your Money's ·Worth Many of you. may wonder Is there any better opening not only ~n the vocal ~echnique what was ·really happening last th.an the rem~rk~ble charm a~d and phys1cal expressto!l of t~e Thursday night. Let us tell you, w~t of our v~vactous ~.C., ~111 perform~r, but also m the~ theJ;e was a tremendous time at D1eonza? H1s theatncal poiSe appropnate yet comtc the Cabaret. There must have and tal~nt ~s ~learly deJ?on- responses. . . . been some important events strated ~n his nnpersonat10n~. For the first ~alf of the show, keeping you away last week, but Responding t? Pres. Reagan s we were enter~amed by two new maybe we can relay some of the p~ea f~r sol11t10ns ~o the A WAC talents, Jenmfer Paston and action. Greeted by a warm situatwn, x:-p;restdent Fo~d, Jo~l 'Beckerma.n. Each had a welcome from the hostess with Carter, and Ntxon, along wtth f~:air. for musiC; and, when the mostess; wine, pretzels and c~lebra~es Charles Bronson, smgmg toge~her, they created.a a smile from our most ac- Ricky Ricardo, a!ld Mr. Rogers, very .Pleasmg .soun~. Thetr commodating waitress--the all presented the1r well thought- selection of mustcal pieces was house lights are down, the stage out views. The believability of dive~se, thus entertaining to all. lights are up, and away we go . . the characters carne through Jennifer was extreme~y bubbly and had a very defmed and The ·play has .a cast of .five characters; four of which are significant. The action is con- fined to a restricted format. That is, it takes place during a single day, and all the scenes are set in one room. James and Mary Tyrone are the·parents of two sons: James Jr. and Edmund. Eacb of the characters are caught in a struggle with their own psychological failings. They each try to escape from the painful present situation. Mary, a morphine addict, withdraws into her own confused con- sciousness, regressing from a state of experience, to one of innocence. The male members of the family rely on alcohol for a temporary release. All of the characters grope for dreams and memories to alleviate their present dilemma: the deterioration and disintegration of their illness. r Travelin' With Tim polished stage presence. She was able to engage the audience in her songs with seeming contro. Joel Beckerman's talent on the piano was a special treat for . anyone to hear. We par- ticularly enjoyed the more upbeat tunes includir!g Boz Scraggs' \It's Over,\ and Barbara Streisand's \I Ain't Gonna Cry No More.\ · Their performance was com- mendable ana. we hope to see more of them in the future. By BOB FOX Travelin' Light, on MCA Records, is the newest album from Tim Weisberg. This is Weisberg's third album since Tim We\~~rg, a rock and roll veteran with 14albums. teaming with Dan Fogelberg on the platinum album Twin Sons oa Different Mothers. Prior to this release was the succ~ssful Night Rider and before that, Party of One, which was produced by John Hug. Hug also produced Travelin' Light, and plays acoustic guitar on the song ''Why.\ The comfination of Weisberg and ·Hug is one reason for the exceptional quality of the album. Another important factor contributing to the quality of the album is Weisberg's band. Rick Jaeger, drums; David Miner, bass; and Bobby Wright, keyboards, all have performed previously with Dave Mason· Chuck Cochran plays electric guitar along with lead .guitarist- songwriter Todd Robinson, who has been with WeiSberg eight years and wrote three tracks on this album. Weisberg, as most people know~ is a flutis. His playing is impeccable. Weisberg began The Go-Go's, Clean Pop Returns By STEVE VAN NESS TheGoGo'shavecomea long way since their disastrous debut in L.A. in 1978. After retiring to the safety of the run-down hotel they were living in at the time, they licked their wounds and vowed to try again. Along the way they picked up drummer Gina Schock (ex Edie and the Eggs) and began to seriously work out the basics of their ' \sound.\ Eventually they were back in business, playing some of the smaller clubs in L.A., building up a following and polishing their act. In 1980, Lhey sounded good enough to catch the ears of the \boys\ :fr()rn Madness, and were offered a spot on the Madness-The· Specials tour of the British Isles. Upon their spectacular return to the U.S., the Go Go's were awarded a contract by IRS records and acquired Kathy Valentine (ex Te!-tones) on bass. Their filst album, Beauty and the Beat, was released this past summer, and it firmly launched the Go Go's into the national spotlight. With Beauty and the Beat, the - Go Go's have demonstrated what pop music should, but all too often doesn't, sound like. Filled with great hooks, clear harmonies and \enough dan~ ceability to blow the top off the American Bandstand's rate-a- record chart,\ Beauty and the Beat is a pleasant change from the monotonous drone that so often passes itself off as pop music. Gina Schock's powerful drumming and Kathy Valen- tine's excellent bass give a solid punch to Charlotte Caffey's refined lead work and Jane Weidlin'scatchy rhythm guitar, while Belinda Carlisle tops it off with her school-girl voice. Beauty and the Beat is first and foremost a fun album - it's a tribute to \beach . parties and hot summer nights, of wanton lust .turned into burning love, and of cruising Dead Man's curve at 90 MPH.\ The rhythms are tight, the songs short and to the point, and there is no ex- traneous \artistic\ garbage. Th~ Go Go's are a classiv pop ban'd - they understand, as have other classic pop bands that what makes music popular is not .intellectual lyrics or dirge like melodies- it's danceability , and a certain tongue in cheek humor. If these girls are as good in concerb as they are on vinyl, the Go Go's concert here at Union will go down as one of the most memorable days in the .history of the school. Never again will I be embarrassed to admit that I like pop - I'll just play my copy of Beauty and the Beat and proudly declare that all is nQt lost ..... once in a while, pop music can be very, very good indeed. (Don't forget - the Go Go's will be here at the Alumni Gym on Monday, November 23 - be there!) playing the flute in his seventh grade band. He got \stuck\ with the flute because his name was near the end of the . alphabet. He played classical flute and studied classical music until 1964, when he started jamming and per- forming with rock bands on a non-paying, tag-along basis. Since then, Weisberg has always played with rock bands, and has developed into a master of the flute. Travelin' Light is his fourteenth album, a good. indication of the force and the influence he has become in music today. He is as much a fan of other artists as he is a musician himself. He listens to, ·and strives to create, music that will \have me on my feet,\ as he puts it. Travelin' Light may not get you on your feet, depending on how loud you play it, but it will certainly lift your spirits. In general the songs generate a lot of energy. Even though there are no lyrics on the album, each song seems to have a message of its own. Whether the melody is lighthearted or melancholy, each song has a character of its own. Even so, the album as a whole is cohesive. All in all, Travelin' Light is a high quality rock and roll album, bursting with energy, and · highly recom- mended. After a quick refill on the refreshments, our M.C .. , posing . as Casey Kasen, brought us an interesting selection of past bits. In closing, a quick' trip. down memory lane through his infamous rendition of the Wizard of OZ. It is truly in- spiring to find one man able to accomplish a task which in the original version took so many. We were then presented with a second act featuring Jim Etkin and friends. He opened with an incredible in- strumental, displaying his strong and agile . ability to hartdle the guitar. His next few selections combined a bit of harmonica, some vocals, and the guitar creating an intense aura, unique to the Cabaret stage. Joining Jim were his two friends Irwin Mencken and Rachel Hertzog. Jim and Irwin performed their own in- terpretation of Gershwin's \Summertime\ which we found quite moving. In addition. Rachel and Jim sang a fine . Continued on page 7 rCHAMBER MUSIC CONCERT SERIESl. ~ FREE ·~ to all Union College Students ~ ~ - ~ (With I.D.l 0 > 0 <( 1- u w z w :I: u (/) Scryedule and Tickets Ava.ilable from: Second Floor Silliman Hall z () 0 .- r- m 0 m ,_ .~ m > a Q) c Ill \'l b 0 .... 0 .c. 0. ~ ·~ Af1 erE tor WE WE ·t~ WI ITid Box p \II \1 li ., t c s SJ: FreE sam SpYJ ensE troc nov: keet as tl abo tunE T1 the clas sets albt per~ feel ten the ............. ···•·•·· ······ ..... ~

' ... , .. · ·. . . . \ ~ er :h - que the tl.eir mic lOW, new and d a •hen eda tleir was 'all. obly and She mce ning tlent :reat par- lore Boz and o\.in't 'heir :om- ' see e. the )Sing 1S an past ·trip hhis the 'I in- lle to n the 1any. with Jim >ened in- his .y to :t few 1it of , and ttense tbaret : two and Irwin t in- win's found .ition. l fine Jage·7 l sc ·z - 0 z n 0 .- .- m 0 m I \ OONOORDIIJJNSIS, November 1SJ 1981 ~rts & ·Culture \ \ ' ' ' . . ' : . ' ' ' ' . . ' .' . 1 Jazz Ensemble Cooks By TIM EMSWILER If you attended the President's reception in Ja·ckson's Gardens at the beginning of this year's · orientation, you got to see some of the finest musical en- tertainment Union College has to offer: The Union College Jazz Ensemble. again this year. So, it's obviously a lotof work. But, as one of the members told me, they all play for a good time. This feeling ls reflected in the atmosphere at practice. It is businesslike, but there is also a . relaxed feeling about it. It is obvious that they enjoy what they are doing, and I'm sure this is also noticeable in their performances. 'Southern rock isn't dead after all.) One additional note: I'm sure the Jazz Ensemble would be interested in talking to any prospective musicians, but a few members cited a particular need for trombone players. If you've seen the Jazz G) c It! ..., : ~ -a ~ The Jazz Ensemble is presently in its sixth. year of existence. The entire group consists of four sections: saxophones, trumpets, trom- bones, and a rhythm section which includes two drums, keyboards, and vibes, which is a kind of electrified xylophone. The group is under the direction of Paul Simmons, and is en- tirely student run, with no connection with the Arts Department. I asked some of the members what kind of music they listened to when they weren't playing, and the general consensus was · simply, \Anything tbat's good.\ \ Ensemble, I don't have to tell you how talented they are. And if you haven't, I recommend that you do so at the nearest opportunity. By the way, that opportunity will arise on Saturday, November 21, at 8:00 p.m., when the Union College Jazz Ensemble will perform in Memorial Chapel. Everyone knows that the parties don't get going until 11 o'clock anyway, so why not start the evening off with some class entertainment? After many weeks of rehearsiAg and polishing, the cast and crew of \Moonchildren'' are ready to go. The play opens t~m(!rrow. . We're i ust like you. We live together, protest together, sleep · •together. We've discovered each other, but will we be able to discover ourselves? \ MOONCHIL.DREN OPENS TOMORROW November 13, 14, 15, 19, 20,21 in the Notf Memorial . ITick.ets on sale now in Nott · $2.00 w-Union I.D. Box Office and Carnegie Box Office. $3.00 All Others THIS WEEK ON WRUC Saturday, 10 p.m.--Saturday night concert series presents Bow Wow Wow, an hour of music and conversation with the RCA recording artists. --Tuesday,2-5 p.m.--The Sebastian Show, 3 hours of rock that will satisfy even the most pretentious audiophile. It's worth living for! -- WR UC is looking for talented people to design a WR UC logo. ·The logo must contain the following: WRUC, 90.9 FM, Schenectady, N.Y. The due date is Nov. 10. AU entries become the property of WR UC and tlie best one wi II receive a cash prize. On Sunday night I attended one of tbe Jazz Ensemble's practices. Tllese practices are held in a large reom on the fourth floor of Carnegie Hall, and two of the room's walls are covered with a· thick carpet to deaden the echoes of the music. In spite of the carpet, I imagine it can get rather loud in there with all seventeen musicians playing at once. The members that I talked to felt that it was important for people to know how much work goes into the music. Each section practices individually for 45 minutes on Sunday nights, and the whole group plays together for two and a half hours on TUesdays. Along with tbeir on-campus performance, last year they played at local high schools, and plan to do so Spyro Gyro: Fre·etime By J. STRUMMER Spyro Gyra latest work, Freetime, contains much of the same sound that bas made Spyro Gyra a front running jazz ensemble. Freetime also in- troduces interesting in- novations which promise to keep Spyro Gyra on top. Mucn as the title suggests, the album abounds with light, upbeat tunes. • The first song on the first side, the title cut, Freetime, is a classic Spyro Gyra riff which sets the mood for the entire album. The excellent use of percussion creates a light airy feeling. Telluride has an in- teresting vibraphone section. In the third song, Summer Strut, the drmns set a quick pace which seems to lose some of the other instruments by the end of the song. The last song on the first side, Eulogy for Trane is a very somber tune played with only four instruments, saxophone, piano, cello and cymbal Crio drums). This tune represents some of Spyro Gyra's innovations and it comes off very well. The longest, and my favorite cut, starts the second side. Pacific Sunrise represents some more innovations, specifically its length and up- beat temno. It starts with the sound of waves washing up on the beach and slowly builds into a hot jazz riff led by the bass. The next song, Amber Dream, is another ttine in the classic Spyro Gyra vein. The final cut, and another of my favorites, is String Soup. It has an upbeat, almost funky beat which compliments the saxophone well. Overall, I feel that this is an excellent work. I was in- troduced to Spyro Gyra when they played at Union College C fall term '79), but as long as they continue to put out records like this, my association with them will continue long after I ,graduate. Spend your free tim8 listening to Freetime! P.S. My pet parakeet, Trigger, loves the album too. He constantly chirps whenever I put it on. BE IN THE FOREFRONT OF TODAY'S TECHNOLOGY AS A SCIENTIFIC-ENGINEERING OFFICER • Our scientific-engineering officers are planning and designing tomorrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeing their ideas and concepts materialize. They have the finest, state.-of-the•art equipment to test their theories. The working envi- ronment is conducive to research. And Air Force ex- perience is second to none. You can be part of this dynamic team if you have a scientific or engineering degree. Your first step will be Officer Training School. Help us shape our future as we lielp you start yours. Be a scientific-engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at 472-4484 • Ask for SSgt Mike Bobrlnitz A greot way of life Most of the bands or musicians I heard mentioned, not sur- prisingly, were of the jazz or progressive rock persuasion, like Yes, UK, Chick Corea, and Genesis. (Although I did hear one vote for Lynyrd Skynyrd- Daring &·Stohl at Coffeehouse Don't miss the last Cof- feehouse of the term this Friday night! Mason Daring and Jeanie Stahl of Boston will be performing a mixed bag of folk, country, light jazz and even a dash of rock. The duo • is one of the most popular acts in the Northeast, attracting standing room only crowds at such clubs as the Passim in Cambridge, the Paradise in Boston · and at colleges and festivals. In 1980 the Boston Globe Annual Reader's Poll named ·Daring and Stahl the top Boston Money For The Asking $3,000,000,000 College Scholarships and Grants · Let our computer match your .background and abilities with the requirements of the various grant givin·g organi- , zations. . Processing Fee only $45.00 Guaranteed Results for complete.informatlon, mail coupon ' r~---~~--~------~ 1 Educational Research Service I .J Post Office Box 292 l I Clifton Park, N.Y. 12065 I I \ I I Name 1 I I 1 Address I I \I I I I The service vou.can•t AffOrd I l NOttOUSE I ----------------~ Folk Act over Tom Rush, Bonnie Raitt and other similar nominees. The previous year they were voted most popular folk artists by the Boston Phoenix. In addition to their music, the two make time to devote to other careers. Mason has put to . use his Suffolk law degree and Jeanie, a graduate of Wellsley, is now a daytime research consultant, working on land-use studies, marketing research and projects such as the future of natural gas. The performance begins at 9:00 PM in the Cabaret Room. 'Admission is only $1.00 and ;includes donuts, coffee and 'cider. Cabaret • • • Continued from page 6 · duet. Their contrasting tones complemented each other adding to the beauty of the music. Jim and friends were entertaining and enlightening in their well executed per- formance. Finally, two people who we feel- deserve recognition for their fine work with the Cabaret are Betsy Modest and Sue Gray. They are always on hand and are very accommodating. They truly deserve a big round of applause. So now you know what hap- pened last week at Cabaret. Maybe this week you'll give it a try; we're sure you'll get your money's worth and much, much ------------ . more. I I I f r

Page 8 OONOORDl.ENSl8;~ Novem·berr 1!, 1981 •p . . I Ed•t . ,reppy · · 1 or Subme,rges Serious Side (CPS)-Lisa Birnbach, editor of \The Official Preppy Hand- book,\ happily takes credit for the preppy fad now enjoying cits second year of supremacy on campus. Since her witty guide to the mores of the rich and casual appeared in October, 1980, it has become Rot only a bestseller, but a force moving style- conscious students to buy Lacoste alligator shirts (preferably pink this year), khaki pants, Sperry Topside \hoes and anything from tl:le ·'prep mecca\ of the L.L. Bean catalogue. Now a year old; the Handbo()k has sold a phenomenall,193,000 copies, is in its 22nd printing and has spawned Canadian and Japanese editions. More is coming. Workman Publishing, which produced the Handbook is offering preppy desk diaries. and the like to help separate the \key\ people from the nerds and wonks. But, oddly enough, under the Fair Island sweater, penny loafers, argyle knee socks and camel corduroy blazer is a different Lisa Birnbach: a very serious, 25-year-old liberal Jewish Democrat from New York who is mostly amused by the preppy phenomenon. \People still ask me 'Was it a joke?' 'Was iLsupposed to be serious?\' Bimbach says. ~'I still can't believe that it's that hard to figure oat. ,There's a difference ~betwe~n you prep- pies are ridiculous and us preppies are ridiculous. •I That's what we were trying to do.\ \I don't like it when people want to restrict other people from something. I want everybody to be preppy.\ ''When students want me to see how preppy they are, they show me their Reagan~Bush stickers. That doesn't make me happy at all. I'm political and I've always been political, but I recognize that they didn't invite me to be Lisa Birnbach. They invited m.e to talk about prep.\ Some of the time her views leak out anyway. At Duke, she coudln't resist Speaking out against the Nixon library proposed for the campus. \Students aren't political at all. I'm worried that they aren't getting enough out of their education. When I'm up there I'm not trying to say, 'Let's all throw up together.' There is more to college than that. I hope that most of them know that all of this is just in fun.'' \I wish something else (other than prep) had become a symbol of playing it safe, but preppy isn't incompatable with that mood.\ ''If the only choices you have are to major in business or art history,\ she explains, \one way to play it safe is to dress preppy.\ It has also become a badge of identity. \In the sixties you lmew that anyone who had short hair was a fascist and voted for Nixon and anybody who had long hair was ok~y. Now you can have long hair and be a fascist.\ The alternative is to dress preppy. It is \instant respec- tability. I mean, you're always dressed _for a job interview.'' Roberts stavted 'keeping notebooks ·of the foibles of their fellow students, usually those of the . upper classes. \We even had a list of preppy diseases,\ she recalls. \There was ·a lot of things, that didn't make it into the book.\ Sadly for pop culture historians, the notebooks were lost, and Bir.nbach and com- pany had to start from scratch when Roberts proposed to· Workman Publishing to \do a book · on preppies.'' The publishing house was initially uninterested, but in Spring, . 1980, when designer Ralph Lauren produced a line of preppy clothing, Workman changed its mind. Roberts convinced Bimbach to edit the book because Roberts, a Workman staffer, was busy with other projects. They assembled it in five months. Birnbach \ thought the book would die a few months after it came out,\ when students 'waded into the school year. \College students don't spend much time in the book Class of 1982: stores after they buy their . (text) books,\ she reasons. Instead, the handbook took off, and Birnbach has been touring colleges· ever since. Her first tour took her to the ·west and South., .including Hampden-Sydney College ln Virginia, which she dubs ''the preppiest college in the country. \Other than Gordon Liddy, 1 think I'm hitting the college lecture c.ircuit the hardest,'' she laughs. On the circuit, she plays her htgh priestess of prep role to tbe hilt, wearing Top Drawer reglia and presiding over any kind .of pro-preppy event the sponsors concoct. At the University of Southern California, .she judged a Who1s Most Preppy Contest. Some entrants brought golf carts and standing closets full of The Right Clothes. At UCLA, the winner squeezed a sailboat indoors \along with his slaves.'' \Terrific excess,\ Birnbach marvels. \It was just great.~' Generally she does a 9()- mi·nute stand-up comedy routine . and then · answers audience questions. Topics range from pr~p sex (\a con- tradiction in terms\) to · drinking. She encourages students to \wear .beer.\ \Beer is not only a beverage, but a fashion accessory,\ she adivses. The ultimate in drinking acceptance is performing the ''technicoJor yawn'' -throwing up in public. \I really love making people laugh,\ she says. \There really can't be a sequel (to the book) as such,\ she adds with a laugh. \We say that nothing's changed since 1635, so there isn't anything different.\ The Boston Latin School, regarded as America's original preparatory school, was founded in 1635. ·sut things. have changed for Birnbach. \The main difference is that I know that publishers win now take more seriously other things I want to do.\ Interested in National Affairs? ConeGrdiensis Welcomes Reader Comments. Drop us a line •r s1op by the office. After all, i1' s your paper\T So despite all the frivolity she has helped promote, she is concerned about the student audiences she plays to almost constantly. Birnbach is not without her own prep school credentials. Daughter of a gem importer and a writer, Birnbach went to Manhattan's Lennox School, Riverdale Country School, Barnard College, and Brown University, graduating in 1978 with an English degree. It was at Brown when Birn- bach and classmate Jonathan Prospects ~right ACROSS 1 Succor 5 Weakens 9 Knock 12 Sandarac tree 13 Dillseed 14 Guido's high note 15 Sandy waste l7 Pronoun 18 Deface 19 Couple 21 Blouse 23 Sieve 27 Exists 28 Listened to 29 Edible seed 31 Drunkard 34 Babylonian deity 35 Weirdest 38 Proceed 39 Arid 41 lair 42 Crown 44 Printer's measure 46 Chose 48 Killed 51 Dusky 52 Pronoun 53 Exclamation 55 Scoffs 59 Hostelry 60Wigwam 62 Exact 63 Footllke part 64 Man's name 65 Rational DOWN 1 Possessed 2 Before 3- Vegas 4 Make ready 5 Glossy fabric 6 Article .7 Church bench 8 Fret 9 Negligent 10 Woe word i1 Separate 16 Made incur- sions 20 Grumbled 22 Three-toed sloth 23 Lean-to 24 Rip 25 Sun god 26 Female ruff 30 Abaft 32 Monster 33 Scurvy one 36 Legal mat- ters 37 Par.king haz- ards 40 Longs for CROSS WORD PUZZLE FROM COLLEGE .PRESS SERVICE 43 Near dum 45 Scale note 54 Layer 47 Endures 56 Time period 48 Vessel 57 Hurry 49 Unaspirated · 58 Diocese 50 Memoran- 61 Negative Answers to Puzzle on Page 16 (GPS)--The Class of 1982 ought to liave a better chance of getting jobs than last year's graduates, according toa new survey of job prospects bY the College Placement Council (CPC}. In its annual Fall survey, the council, a trade group for college placement counselor.s, found that virtually all kinds cf high-volume employers an· ticipate increased hiring in tbe near future. Not unexpectedly, engineers will once again be most in demand, the survey says. The 551 firms answering the CPC's questionaire about · near-term hiring plans foresaw a 12 per- cent increase in the hiring of engineering bachelors, and 32 percent and 37 percent hiring inc'reases for engineering masters and doctors. F ~ ME be fo1 pe ha Ut gr, mi PI p~ re. th: ha di re Cl: U( H cc m cl th ill fr iii pl b• bt

iy rs cs n- to es re, h.e tle a \ !l.Y ce 1g ll, .al as or ce rs :ly - C's rm 1er- of 32 ing ing OONOORDIENSIS, November 1!; 1981 ,Page 9 For Whom ·the Bell Tolls By mOM~ CHING Since 1924, the Glock .at Memorial Chapel has strucktbe · bells to produce the . ll.n- forgettably rich and majestic peals. N.ow,thesehourly chimes have terminated and with it a Union tradition. Fortunately, a group of dedicated and deter~ mined individuals, headed by Professor Huntley of the Psychology Department, ha.ve resolved to attack and remedy this situation. The bells-at Memorial Chapel have long been plagued by difficulties but only now, as a result of the silence, has the campus community taken notice. One problem, Professor · Huntley explained, is the constant freezing of the grease used to run the bells and the clock. Prior to the insulation of the dome, ,enough heat rose to the belfry to prevent the grease from freezing solid. Once the insulation was installed, problems arose. The grease began to freeze causing the gear box to break down. · The in- sulation for the belfry is now under construction and upon its completion an electric heater will be installed. Another probable solution suggested by Professor Huntley would be the employment of ''unfreezing grease\ which could withstand the elements. Professor Huntley ment-ioned another serious problem-- vandalism. He spoke of an ''individual.(who) climbed (the belfry i last commencement weekend (and) broke tl:le clock mecha:nism\ without any ap- parent motives. Since almost all the parts are either irreplaceable OF very costly, it required the combined talents of · Mr Lumpkin, . the college horolQgist, Mr. Herrgan and Mr. Fleming to make the necessary repairs. In addition, . Professor Hun- tley cited the indifference on the part of the students to ''play the bells, two or three hours each week.\ Since the current \bell ringer\ Dan Booth will soon be graduating, a suitable replacement must be found. The replacement, Professor Huntley added, should be \able to read music\ but more iffi,. portant should be able to face the \sericrus responsibilities that go with the job.\ Faced with its many mechanical difficulties. coupled with financial hardship, the fate of the bells at Memorial Chapel is indeed dubious. With the support of the campus, this. very determined group of individuals will try their utmost to save the chapel bells. I Watson Fellowship: College Chooses Four Seniors The Thomas J. Watson Fellowshi.p Selection Com- mittee has nominated four seniors as the college's can- didates for the fellowship. They \are William Ferman, Karl Bahr de Leon, Rachel Gertzog and Tamara Wood. . The Watson fellowship was established to enable college graduates of unusual promise to take advantage of a year of ; independent study and travel abroad following graduation. The $10,000 awards have typically been given so that the . fellows might \explore with thoroughness a particular in· : terest, test their aspirations and · abilities, view their lives and • American society in greater 1 perspective, and con- ! comitantly, develep a more l informed sense of inter. national concern.'' Since tbe institution of the award in 1961, 891 fellowships have been granted totaling over six million dollars. Out of the one hundred and 1 eighty nominations submitted to the Watson Foundation by the fifty colleges and universities that participate, seventy Watson Fellows will be selec- ted. The awards will be an- nounced by March 15, 1982. Memorial Chapel's bells may ring no more. career. Most (t!'aduates are headed 1br a. Onlya h wm influeneetlte wor a. While most graduates in the areas of Elec- in the world with almost every major vendor 1b find out more about NSA career oppor- tronic Engineering, Computer Science, and of computer equipment represented. NSA careers tunities, schedule an interview through your coHege Mathematio; are deciding on a career direction, provide mixtures of such disciplines as systems placement office. For additional information on the a select few are finding mrJre than a career analysis and design, scientific applications pro- National Security Agency; fill in the information · They are the graduates who will work in a gramming, data base management systems, oper- blank and send it to Mr. Bernard Norvell, College challengillg environment where matters affecting ating systems, computer networking/security, Recruitment Manager, National Security Agency, our natiorntl security are a part of our everyday and graphics. Attn: Office of Employment (M32R), Fort George G. activity. Mathemada: You'll work on diverse Meade, Maryland 20755. They are the graduates who choose a career agency problems applying a variety of mathematical An Equal Opportunity Employer. U.S. Citizen- with the t{ational Security Agency. . disciplines. Specific assignments might include solv- ship Required. From the very outset they will influence the ing communications-related problems, performing growth and direction of their fields ~f specialization. long- range mathematical research or evaluating You too, can experience the very same . new techniques for communications security. opportunity and challenge in any of these NSA The Rewards at NSA. career fields. NSA offers a salary and benefit program tt,at's truly Eleetronie Enaineerina: There are op- competitive with private industry. There are assign- portunities in a variety Of research and development ments for those who wish to travel and abundant projects ra.ngingfrom individual equipments to very good living in the Baltimore-Washington area for complex Interactive systems involving large numbers those who wish to stay close to home. of microprocessors, rriirli\computers·and computer Countless cultural, his- graphics. Professional growth is enhanced through torical, recreational and interaction with highly experienced NSAprofession- e<;tucational oppor- als and tluough contacts in the industrial and tunities are iust academic worlds. F::tcilities for engineering analysis nutes away from . and design automation are among the best available. NSA's o,vu·,~>tu•cou C&mputer Sdenc:e: At NSA you'll discover suburban one of the largest computer installations location. ------------------- I'd like more information about career oppol'lllniti!S with NSA. My Area ofspecialization is: d Mathematics 0 Electronic Engineering 0 Engineering Th(:hnology 0 Computer Science Grad. Yr. __ _ Name (print) ---------- Address _____ Phone No. ____ _ ~~ee~el ---------- University _ ------------------~ ·-.....{' .,~ The National Security Agency . More than just a career.

Page 10 CONOORDIENSIS, November 18, 1981 ~ditorials Letters The Damage Is Done \ We, the Editors of Concordiensis, were offended and outraged by the appearance of a coun- terfeit issue of tllenewspaper. We devote buge amounts of time and energy to Concordiensis and we take great pride in our product. AB one of the school's long-standing traditions, we feel privileged to be a,part of Concordy'straditlonofjournalistic excellence and important service.to the school. · Furthermore, Coucordy Is meant toren.ect the issues and opinions of the student body .and' of tile entire Union community. We asswne this great ·responsibility willingly, expecting nothing more than simple rec()gnition for our work. The more than 00 students involved in Concordiensis have been personally hurt. by the actions taken by :Mr. Mitchelland Mr. Biegen. We feel that it is important to state here that we can appreciate the potential value of lampoon and satire. indeed, so many of us have enjoyed National Lampoon and Mad Magazine; Con- cordiensls regularly lampoons itself with itsterm:-end \Distordiensis\ issue. We feel that it'.is important for any group to be able to laugll atitseH, and.parodies are generally well received, but because of the:potentially dangerousnatllle oflampoons, it is imperative that every precaution be taken to insurettlat no severe damage is done. Our major argument is that Mr. MitcheDand Mr. Blegen chose to duplicate the physical format of Concordiensls. Nowhere in the issue was information provided to lead anyone to believe that the issue was anything other than an actualiss11e of our weekly paper. The students responsible made their first legal mistake when they used the Coneordiensis masthead, that is, the typeset presentation of olll\ name on the front page. Had they called their issue \Distordiensis\ or \Not Concordiensis'' or some.clearly dlfferemtname, then we, as newspaper people, would support their freedom to print their views and ideas. We, as editors of Concordiensts. have the responsibility to present issues of interest to the campus coiillllunity in an accurate way through the vehicle of Concordy. By using the C.-n- cordiensis name, the students responsible committed fraud. Concordiensis has been (and will remain) the rnediwn for campus topics and opinions t() be expressed. The contents of the COIID· terfeit issue were themselves total fabrications. The most important and serious damage caused by the issue was in the form of misrepresen• tation of both \so11I'ces\ and advertisers. Since the stories were complete fabrications, admitted as such by Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Biegea,.people were credited with statements that were never made. Jan Gray,Dave Wood, and even President Morris were credited with statements that were clearly not theirs. While the seriousness extends to all cases, particularly in the case of President Morris; sucll a misquote is severely damaging to both the President and the College. In a telephone conversation, the President voiced bis strong concern regarding the incident and was concerned with the reputations of bothtlleaewspaper and the student body as a whole. The most important point is one that the eresident cited. Each of the students on this campus can be considered \stockholders\ ()f S<>rts within the context ()f the newspaper. The Student Forum is the \publisher\ of the paper. By misrepresenting tlle student newspaper, Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Biegen have made a mockery <>f one of the most important student voices on campus. Furthennore~ they have made a mockery of the governing body, the student representatives, by personally assuming the power to put:.lisb the student newspaper, a power than can only be granted by the Student Forum. . We must also state that we were disappointed by the decision of Forwn to wait before taking any action. As student Leaders and representatives, the issue was brought before them clearly, yet they could nd see wbat should be obvious to almost anybody. We feel that Forum should have issued a statement of formal condemnation of the actions of the students responsible. Details regarding formal charges and legalities could have been postponed tmtil further investigation had taken place. Tile Fonun decided t() remain impartial in the matter. Frankly, we cannot 1Ul- derstand how they can remain impartial when an attack has been made on an organization they are responsible f()r. It is easy to see how tlleir lack of action can be construed by many, including President Morris and Dean Spring, as oondoning the fraudulent actions that were undertaken by Mr. Mit chen and:Mr. Biegen, actions that the two admitted to in the presence of the Forum and the many students who were present at last Monday's Forum meeting. As student representatives, Formn members have the responsibility to act in the best interests of the students, to defend the ·rights of the students when they have been attacked. We, the editors, also have a responsibility to the students, tel act as their \voice to provide the vehicle for their opinions, as well as the opinions of other members of the campWJ conununity. The credibility and integrity of this campus \voice Comeordiensls, was undennined on a whim. The Forum's stand should have been quite obvious. The students themselves admitted that they were wrong, yet the Forum chose to ''in- vestigate further\ to determine exactly what wrongs had been committed. Quite possibly, now that some time bas passed and the gl.'\a:vity of the issue is clear, Forum understands that its position must be clearly one of support for the student newspaper and of condemnation of those who would illegally mock it. . , . Many pe()ple are concerned with the legality- of the issue. WhUe the content of a newspaper cannot be protected from such action, the form can be and is. The format of Concordiensis is a creative entity unto itself, including sucll things as the masthead, the various sections sucn as \Nottices\ and the other physical characteristics that make Concordy unique. This \uniqueness\ was infringed upon, and this is in itself illegal. Additionally, advertisers were led to believe that they were going to be advertising in a \special\ issue of Concordiensis. This isnot the case and is an outright lie on the part of the two students. We have taken great pains to establish sound and friendly relationships with our ad- vertisers. The \editors\ of the fake isstJ.eltaveagreed not to bill any of the advertisers, but there is no way to tell exactly how our delicate business relationship with those advertisers has been damaged. The sad part of the whole situation is that Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Biegen really have no concept .of the amount of damage that they caused. Their intention was a good one. Parodies, when done correctly, can be quite amusing. Theywei\e not aware of the seriousness of their mistakes and the potential power that a newspaper represents. Mr. Mitchell even had the audacity to request that he be allowed to distribute the impounded issues of the paper. These two students displayed a lack of respect fer all of the people-administi\ators professors and students alike.:..that make np this institution. To defend the rights of the students, editors and staff, Editors-in..cru.ef, and the entire Union College c()mmunity, we feel that we, tbe Editors-in-Chief, must ask for total retributi()nto ConcordieruJis and tbe people that it represents. Fwthermore, we must ask that the entire campus community .infonnally condemn the actions of Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Biegen and that the official campus bodies formally condemn thelllegal and irresponsible actions of the two students. \Truth is generally the- best vindication against. sland'er. '' Abrahatn Lincoln July 18, 1864 Elec~ions for the position of Editor-in· Chief of Concorcliensis for the winter and spring terms will be held on Tuesday, November 17 at 8:30 pm. All interested persons should submit their names to Mrs. Lorraine Marra in· Student Acti¥ities Office before that· time. . . ~ovtol~j IN.,,~ € ,~~0-A ~,~li~ ~, , oncor ~~l4~. uttn~a~ .,cJ:. L ~~- ilt~\''c't~tl\~ · ~· Ed\tors-in-Chief · Managing Editor Associate Managing Editor · News Editors . Features Editor Arts & Culture Editor Associate Arts & Culture Editor Campus Page E<Utors Rachel I. Mandel, Paul Grossman Julie Isgro Diane Pavacic Naomi Blank...t Ed Albro · Judi Lee t;nervenak Bob Fox Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Sports Editors Jay McDermott, Rob N01ion Assistant Sports Editor Drew Hurley Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Photo Editor Mindy Broser .Sports ?hotoEditor Steve Lerner . Cartoonists David Neibltun, Lisa Snyder Staff Mandy Abrams, Joey Beckerman, Saul Berley, . Alan Binkow, Norman Birnbach, Dan Booth, Thomas Ching,, T1mothy Emswiler, Steven Fallon, Regina Gough, Doug Landon, . Barton Hill Levine, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Mark Mortenson, D. C. Owens, Peter Perrin, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield; Michael Sharp, David Silversmith, Cindy J. Tenner, A.A .. Terhune Jennifer Amler~EvelynGw-din Business-Staff Subscriptions Photo Staff E. Wesley Harris, III Jane CavalierJ anet Guiliano, I Norm Pflaster. Robert Tanll. Linda Wallen CONCORDIENSIS is pUblished evS~ry Thmsday by the student bOdy of Union College, Carnegie ~11, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, N~w York 1~, (607) 563-7151. Ente~el:l in 1 the Schenectady Post Off1ce as thjrd class matter. Subscnption· rate: 31> cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United .States. · OONC&RDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press .Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). ~ Sec We ref ilUC PrE Urn Uni not hu1 de I of I anr ·cor cor to Or1 off we J neJ thE adl of COl St~ H(J R€ to ap le~ 1 no inc Br So an BI U! all re wl th {,JJ m th WI ar m m si Vl TJ bt w a: n: ti is (; fil Cl i~ d t; tl Vi n

ro ro I 11 I OONOORDIENSIS, November 1!, 1981 1 Page 11 Fighting FOr Peace By DAVID SILVERSMITH WASHINGTON, 1981: Sec.retary of Defense Caspar W. Wemberger announces that the refurbishing of America's nuclear arsenal is \A necessary prerequisite\ to arms limitt,ttion. talks with the Soviet Union. President Reagan an- nounces a· plan to build one hundred MX missiles and deploy them in silos. Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig.. Jr. announces that under certain ·conditions an attack by ·Soviet conventional forces would lead to a North Allantic Treaty Organization option of setting off a demonstration nuclear weapon. Almost every day there is a new militaristic statement from the Reagan administration. An administration that has tied all of the world's problems to the conflict betweeFI the United States and the Soviet Union. However, the actions of the Reagan administration have led to a situation where America appears to be the country leading the world to war. the Reagan administration might, and I certainly hope that they do, have other intentions, consideration must be given to appearances. If the Reagan. ad!ninistration does have other intentions, then it must make an effort to e:!tlllain its actions and thus rally support from other countries. However, if the Reagan administration is really arming for peace, then Reagan must remember that militarily fighting for peace is like screwing for virginity. Letters ~ £ditorials • From Where I Stand: NASA • IS Important By ALAN BINKOW President Reagan has an- no~ced plans to cut back on the budget of the National · Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) in fiscal 1983. In fiscal 1982, the NASA budget was cut back 7' percent. NASA officials have said that the further cutbacks mean the virtual end of the agency. I feel that NASA is one of the most important governmental agencies. The benefits we have reaped have been (pun in- tended) astronomical. These benefits have come in all forms- from computers and computer- related technology; to medical advancements; to - ad- vancements in geology, ar- cheology, planetology, and a host of other sciences; to a new frontier of expansion. Many of these beneifts are by products, and could have conceiveably been achieved without the space program. However, it is mY opinion that, without the initiative of the space program, they would not have been accomplished. For example: (1} One of the big problems in space exploration has been how to get more into less space. This has been solved by con- centrated and dried foods and the transistorization of cir- cuitry. This means that the radio that wakes you up in the mornihg, the orange juice that you drink your stereo system, your telephone, and the com- puter which runs a great deal of the campus, all depend on technology connected with the space program in some way. Now, in the case of the ad- vanced computer, there would always be reason to speed up the computer's operation, but without the space program, there would be little reason to shrink down the computer's size to the point where a hand calculator or a computer owned by a college becomes practical. While Weinberger is an- nouncing that America must increase its nuclear arsenal, Brezhnev is announcing that the Soviet Union wants to sit down and talk about arms limitations. Brezhnev claims that the Soviet Union is \prepared to reach agreement on very substantial reductions on both sides.\ So who seems like the warmonger, the United State or the Soviet Union? · While the Reagan ad- ministration is claiming that the Soviet Union is threatening world peace, they go ahead and announce plans for the MX missiles. However these missiles will be placed fu old silos and thus they will be vulnerable to Soviet ·attack. Therefore these missiles cannot be regarded as retaliatory weapons, but they can be seen as American first strike missiles. So who appears to be the warmonger? lA Question of Preference! (2) Medical technology has also advanced. Examples are: the CAT scanner; computerized diagnostic assistance; elec- trocardiograms; electroenc· ephlograms-and the wealth of knowledge of human physiology that is too technical to go into ;here. And then, there are the non· byproduct benefits. On the second shuttle mission the Columbia will conduct several scientific experime!}ts. Among them will be an oceanography experiment, concerning the movement of fish schools. According to CBS news, if every exploration vessel in the United States worked solely on this experiment, it would take OVER 100 YEARS to complete without the aid of Columbia. With columbia, the time is measured in hours. While Secretary of State Haig is announcing that America (and ,NATO} might detonate a nuclear device in case of Soviet conventional attack, Brezhnev is declaring that the Soviet do?trine \Excludes prevl:l,n- tatlve wars and the concept of the first strike. ! \ Once again, who appears to be the war- monger? Marx once said \A spectre is haunting Europe-th~ spectre of communism.'' Well Reagan seems to belieye the same thing, except in this case communism is threatening the whole world. In trying to stop communism, the Reagan ad- ministration appears to be leading the world to war. While D By PETER PERRIN Steve Horn received a typical American education, where his· instructors taught him that America was unique in that people have the right to their individuality here. Then, he grew up and served in the Marines during the·/Vietnam conflict. Sgt. Steve Horn won the Bronze Star for heroism. After returning home to Mesa, Arizona, he earned his degree at utah State U niv.ersity. Later, he joined the Mesa Police Department as a patrolman, and not long after was promoted to narcotic's detective, where he learned that people do not have the right to be non-conforming individuals in American society. Steve Horn lost his job on the basis of affectual preference-- he is a homosexual. As an American, he was expected to fight for the Military-Industrial Complex, and he was respected for being a top-notch narcotics officer. But, his homosexuality placed him outside of our o ---.....,or-r-- 1) t;.· ·~;;:~~v· 0 0 homophobic, heterosexist society. Furthermore, his af- fectual preference threatens the patriarchal basis of our society especially .since he took on a~ authoritative and macho position within society-that of police officer. Our legislators have sought to eradicate homosexuality as if it were a disease, through various laws prohibiting \crimes against nature,\ \unnatural and \lewd and lascivious acts.\ Discrimination in housing and employment is either legal or tolerated in many parts of the country. This summer, Mayor Koch allowed the eviction of two New York lesbians from their New York apartment on the basis of their sexuality. Gay men and lesbians are often forced to live their preferred life styles clandestinely, by the oppressive attitude of the \freedom loving\ American people. In America, people have the freedom to work at a ''traditional'' heterosexual relationship and some sem- blance of the American concept b \ \ of family, and not much more. Jerry Falwell and his Christian friends want to make sure that society is homogenous, and people are restricted to the \traditional\ American lifestyle. The Family Protection Act, a Moral Majority pet project, if passed, would be anationwide statute that denies gay rights across the board from employment to social security benefits. Thus, they would not make gays second class citizens; rather, gays effectively would not be citizens at all. If one were to examine anti- homosexual legislation, you would find that one of tbe main reasons that society is homophobic is that people do not understand that homosexuality is not merely sexual. Rather, like heterosexuality it is also af- fectual. It is a positive tjrpe of relationship where individuals seek fulfillment of basic emotional needs frorn other people. Because, !the two in- dividuals involved in the mutually supportive relationship are both of the same gender, the balance of power in society is threatened. So, the macho and the power wielding men seek to · homogenize society and the Bible quoting, self-righteous men must condemn these people who threaten their unquestioned authority to damnation. In a democratic society, such a hierarchy of power as the patriarchal system should not exist, .let alone the stifling of individuality that it leads to. It is healthy for neither tbe society or the individuals. Therefore, it is up to the raionally thinking elements of society to repeal anti-gay laws and stop the progress of proposed ones so that affectual preference is no longer an issue and we can concentrate on other areas of adv_ancement in society. &It more important than any benefits yet achieved, NASA- represents the expansion of the human race to yet another frontier. Now, people have argued about our \right\ to go to other planets; most of their arguments boil down to ''there are some things man was not meant to know.\ I am indebted .to Professor Kaminsky of the Philosophy Department for expressing my argument in better words than I could find. First of all, if we were not meant to know certain things, why have we been given the means to find out? Anawho has decided what we should and should not know, and then neglected to tell us about it?? Man is constantly searching for new horizons; consequently, he has run out of room to ex:- pand on this planet. Of course, we could expand undersea; but: if you think about it, expansion undersea would be virtuallY identical with expansion to the moon, with a few exceptions. But which would be more ethical? Undersea, where there already are creatures living'? Or the moon, where there are not? I believe that space is, indeed, 1 the final frontier.\ I believe that we have a right, or even an obligation, to explore and settle it. But I also feel that, in order to do so, NASA must be strong. I urge the Union community to support this agency. I further urge President Reagan not to make further cuts of this ob- viously important agency.

Page 12 CONOORDIENSIB, November 18, 1981 -Finai-Exani Schedule IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular, ''day\ undergraduate courses. A · separate schedule for,GraduateStudies and Continuing Education courses will be annowtc~d, and students in \Section 51 or a2\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the ex;am tune for those courses, except for Adm, & Mgt. 250 (Sec. 51) which is included here. . Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Lapidus in the Office of the Registrar not · later than November 23, 1981. Examinations will be held in assiglned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. AB-Arts Building BH-Bailey Hall BU-Butterfield Hall HU-Humanities Building N-North Wing, Sci-Engr. Center OC....Old Chapel PY -Psychology Laboratory 88-Social Science Building SH--steinmetz Hall CH-Carnegie Hall MONDA\', DECEMIJER 7 • 9:00..11:00 a.m. Economics 53-The Economy of China-Reynolds-:-8S 113 . English 22-Major American A~hors: The Amencan R~nmssance-Gado-HU 112 English 50-Literature of the Eighteenth Century-Tharsmg-HU 116 Political Science 4a-cbinese Political Behavior-Thurston-HU 117 Anthropology 43-Anthropology of Religion-Grnelch-SS 112 Statistics tO-Introduction to Statistics-Delaney-BH 104 . American Studies 22-Major American Authors: The American Renaissance-Gado-HU 112 Biology 180-Biochemistry-Birecka-N 116 ChemiStry us-;Inorganic Chemistry II--Weick-8H 101 E.S. 10-Mechanics I Sec. 1-Weiss-BU 109 Sec. 2-Lakhanpal-'BU 106 _ . Psychology 48-Clinical Models of Psychotherapy I-Dowling-PY 113 Computer Science 37-8tructmed Programming Sec. 1-Hannay-HU lla Sec. 2-Hannay-HU 115 Computer Scien~e 131-Introductioil to Compilers-Branch-BH 207 MONDAY, DECEMBER 7 • Z:IJ0.4:00p.m. Freshman Preceptorial 10-Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 5-Tobiessen..SH 100 Liberal Learning aD-Special Topics in Geology-D. Stone-HU 112 Economics tO-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-Prosper-SS 115 Economics 141-Monetary Economics-Phaup-HU 014 English 19-Major English Authors, Sec. 1-Murphy-HU 117 English 46-Modern Drama-Ullmann-HU 110 History 11-History and Society: The Modernization and Growth of Global Society-Finkelstein, Hansen, Thurston-HU 019 History 61-The.Spanish and Portuguese Empires in America-Bristol-88 010 History 121-Ame,tican Constitutional and Legal History: The Federal Experience-Allen-ss 113 Freneh 12-Basic French ill-Thomas-HU 114 German l~Basic German I-Kellenter-HU 116 Political Science ·64:-Congressional Politics-Tidmarch-SS 012 Anthropology l~Introduction to Cultural Anthropology-Gmelch-SS 117 statistics l~lntroduction to Statistics-Schmidt-HU 115 Biology 23-The CeU....COre Ifi-Lambert-BH 201 . Biology 32-Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy-Butterstem-ss 016 Chemistry 10-FWldamental Chemistry I Sec. 1-Scaife-BU 204 Sec. 2-sowa-BU 204 Sec. 3-Wemer-BU 204 Sec. 4-Wemer-BU 204 Sec. 6-Scaife-BU 204 Cilemistry 152-Physical Chemistry II-Hayes-N 222 Geology 51-0Ceanography-Zimmerman-BU 109 Mathematics lOG-Orthogonal Fwtctions and Boundary Values-Bick-BH 205 Mathematics 13&-Real Variable Theory I-Taylor-BH 104 Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II (Biology, Science, Humanities and Social Science Majors)- Pilcher-sH 106 Physics 48-0ur Physical Environment-Schick-8H 101 Psychology 1D-A First Course in Psychology Sec. 2-Calabria-PY 102 Sec. 3-Gridner-PY 113 E.S. 20-Mechanics II-Panlilio-N 116 C.E. 41-Legal Aspects of Engineering-Harlow-BU 106 C.E. !52-Environmental Engineering I-8now-BU 300 E.E'. 30-System Theory I--Goodheart-BH 207 M.E. 30-Dynamics of Linear Systems-Kennedy-BH 106 Psychology 24-Social Psychology-Lipton-PY 213 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8 • 9:90-11:00 a.m. Liberal Learning 20-Simplistic Modelling of Behavior-Russ-N 222 Arts to-Introduction to the Arts-Robbins, Dellario-AB 202 Economics 43-Economic Gro\*h and Development-Wiese-SS 014 English 62-Nineteenth-Century Novel-Ullmann-HU 116 History 43-Europe in the Early Modern Era-Hansen-HU 014 French 10-Basic French 1-Ruthman-HU 117 French 131-Introduction to the Study of French Literature-Thomas-HU 114 German 137-German Literature Since 1946-Kellenter-HU 112 Russian l();..Basic Russian I-Jernakoff-HU 110 Spanish 133-The Spanich Language in Practical Use I-Diez-Herencia-HU 019 Philosophy 15-Philosnphy and Existential Literature-Patrik-HU 115 Philosophy 65-Philosophy of Mind-Kaminsky-HU 016 Political Science 11-Contemporary American Politics, Sec. 2-Tidmarch-8S 117 Political Science 12-Contemporary International Politics-Brown-SS 115 Political Science 59-GlobalDeveiopment and the Inequality of Nations-Nichols.....SS 113 Sociology 10-Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 2-lluggins-SS 112 American Studies }13--American Social History-Clinton-SS 010 Biology 51-Ecology-George--BU 109 . Biology 66-Sex and Sexuality-Lambert-SS 016 Biology 150-Evolutionary Biology-J. Boyer-'BH 205 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I-Reich, Schick-SH 101 Psych()logy 16-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 6-Spring-PY 113 Psychology 36-Developmental Psychology-Benack-PY 102 Psychology 62-Practicum in Human Relations 1-Girdner-PY 213 E.S. 22-Science of Engineering Materials Sec. 1-Auten-BU 204 Sec. 2-Colangelo-BU 204 E.E. 133-Communication Circuits-Hassib-N 116 TUESDAY,DECEMBER8-2:004:00p.m. Latin 133-Lyric and Elegia«; Poetry-Ouelette-HU 110 Economics 16-Elementary Economics Sec. 3-I.ove-SS 016 Sec. 4-I.ove-SS 016 Economics 42-Macroeconomic Theory and Policy-Kershner-ss 117 English 53-Literature of the Renaissance-Stevenson-HU 117 English 76-The .Amrican Novel U-Gado-HU 112 History 54-RUSSia in the Imperial Ag(!-Berk-88 112 Philosophy 42-Ethics-Taylor-HU 116 E.S. 41-Introduction to Electric Circuits Sec. 1-Kwnp-BH 201 Sec. 2-Fairchild-BH 207 WEDNESDA Y,.DEtCEMBER 9 • 9:00.11':00 a.m. Latin lD-Principles of Lati.Jl-Ketterer-HU 110 , . Economics 11-Elernentary Economics, Sec. 2-Sehmidt.-HU 019 Economics 31-Microeconomic Analysis-Klein-ltU 112 Economics 32-LI;lbor and IndUstrial Relations-Prosper-88 115 English 71-Uterature of the Irish Renaissance-Murphy-HU 117 History 58-The Holocaust-Berk-88 016 ·History 68-Modern Japan-Thmston-ss 014 French 2D-Intensive French-Ruthman-BU 116 · Russian 133-The Russian Language in Practical Use I-Jernakoff-HU 014 Spanish 130-Readings in Contemwrary Spanish and Spanish-American Literatme-.Ihri~atJ 016 Philosophy 12;....Philosophical ·Problems-Davis, Kaininsky, LtJdwig, Morris, Patrik-HU 115 Political Science 2s-;The Western. Political Heritage: Moses to Machiavelli-'Bo!ltd-88117 Biology 21-Biology of Animals-Core I-&hadler-BU 204 Biology 145-Protozoology-Styles-BH 102 Biology 1&4-Chordate Embryology-Rappaport-BU 106 Chemistry 40-Quantitative Chemistry-Werner-N 222. Physics 119-Relativity, Gravitation and Cosmology-()hanian-;SH 100 P&ychology 10-A First Course in Psychology Sec. 4;....Markiewicz-PY 102 Sec. 5-Lipton-PY 113 Psychology 33-Cognitive Psychology-Greenberg-PY 213 E.S. 3D-Mechanics of Defonnable Solids, Sec. 1-Weiss-BH 207 C.E. 165-Systems Analysis-Jewell-BU 800 E.E. 143-Electromagnetic Engineering l ... Branch-8H 101 M.E. 141-Engineering Design-Eisenstadt-BU 109 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER & - 2:004:00 p.m. Economics 10-Elementary Economics, See. 1-Klein-88 112 Economics 11-Elementary Economics,. &e. 1-Wiese-SS 113 Chinese 1_0-Basic Intensive Chinese I-Cltan-HU 116 German 12-Basic German III-Mache-HlJ 112 Spanish 12-Basic Spanish III-Vinick-HU l17 Spanish 142-'lbe Spanish-American Novel-Ihrie-HU 114 Accounting_ tO-Financial AccoWlting-Kauth-BH 201 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (Bblogy, Science, Humanities and Social Science Majors)- Titus-SH 106 Physics 13-Introduction to Physics TI (Engineering, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics Majors)-Newman-N 116 Physics 22-Electronic Circuits-Jones-SlllOO · Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec.l-Huntley ... PY 102 Psychology 20-Statistical Methods in Psycllology-Greenberg-PY 113 E .. s. 42-Electric Circuits ll-Chang-SH 101 C.E. 142-&il Mechanics-Griggs-BU 106 C.S. 11-FORTRAN Programming for tlle Social Sciences-Schwarz-SS 012 C.S. 12-Programming .for the Sciences-RWls-SS 117 C.S. 18-Introouction to. Computer Orgm.ization-Hassib-BH 207 C.S. 34-COBOL and Information Processing-Chadwick-HU 115 THURSDAY,DECEMBERlll-9:(JO.ll:OOa.m. Classics 24-Greek Art and Civilization-Mendelsohn-CH 205 . Mathematics 10-Calculus I Sec. 1-Stone-BH 201 Sec. 2-Zimmennann-BH 207 Sec. 3-Bick-BH 104 Sec. 4-Dubisch-BH 106 Sec. 5-Craig-BH 108 Sec. 6-Gingrich-HU 115 Sec. 7-Rousseau-BH 203 Sec. 8-Gingrich-HU 115 Sec. 9-Pappas-SS 112 Sec. 16-Muckenfuss-HU. 019 Sec. 11-Taylor....SS '115 Sec. 12-Niefeld-BU 106 Mathematics 12-Calculus II Sec. 1-Gillett~BU 109 Sec. 2-Fairchild-BH 205 Sec. 3-Muckenfuss-HU 019 Mathematics 3D-Ordinary Differential Eq~.~ations Sec. 1-Maddaus-HU 114 Sec. 2-Zimmermann-BH 207 Sec. 3-8tone-BH 201 Sec. 4-Larsson-BH 102 Mathematics 41-Linear Algegra I Sec. 1-Gillette-BU 109 Sec. 2-Pappas-ss 112 THURSDAY; J).ECEMBER lOe 2:004:00 p.m. Freshman Preceptorial 10-Perception and Persuasion, Sec. U-Hartwig-8S 113 Adm. & Mgt. 256-0rganization Theory, Sec. 51-Schneller-BH 102 Chemistry 20-Qrganic Chemistry lfs Sec. 1-Quaal-BU 204 Sec. 2-HuJl...oBU 204 Mathematics 18-Introduction to Logic and Set Theory Sec. l..,.!'feifeld-BH 203 . Sec. 2-8eiken-BH 205 E.S. 26-Thennodynamics and Heat Trat~sfer Sec. 1-Shanebrook-HU 1ta Sec. 2-8hanebrook-HU lla FRIDAY,DECEMBER 11-9:00..11:00 a.m. Economics 10-Elementary Economics Sec. 5-Wiese-SS 116 , Sec. 6-Reynolds-SS 11'1 English 25-Introduction to Shakespeare-Stevenson-HU 115 French 145-Studies in the French Theatre from the Classic to .the Modern-McDennott-HU 116 Hebrew 10-Basic Hebrew I-Heckelman-HU 110 . Political Science 11-Contemporary Aineriean Politics, Sec. 3-Brown-HU 117 Pl)litical Science 58-International Law-Eoard-SS 115 Political SCience 159-Seminar: Intematio11al Politics-Gati-HU 112 Physics a-Introduction to Physics I (Class of 1985) Sec. 1-Peak-BU 204 Sec. 2-Peak-BU 204 Psychology 10-AFirst Course in Psychology, Sec. 7-Benack-PY 102 E.S. 11-Engineering Graphics-Harlow-EO 106 FRIDAY, DECEMBER11·2:110-4:00p.m. History 41-Medieval FoWldations of Western Society-Allen-ss 113 Spanish 10-Basic Spanish It Sec. 1-lhrie-HU 114 Sec. 2-Diez-Hrencia-HU 112 Philosophy 20-Classical Logic-Peterson-HU 1i7 Accounting 10-Financial AccoWlting-Hurley-BH 201 Mathematics 14-Calculus III Sec. 1-Maddaus-BH 207 Sec. 2-Seiken-BH 205 Sec. 3-Stone-BH 203 Psychology 46-Introduction to Psychobiology-Matkiewicz-PY 102 Psychology 50-Educational Psychology-Girdner-PY 113 E.S. 3D-Mechanics of Deformable Solids, Sec. 2-Panlilio-BU 106 . -I L< M Fi M R St 2( R L L I F I

116 i)- ies lUi ~--- What's Ha;ppen·ing Friday, N()vember 13 Film-SSOl6...:7, '9, 11 P.M. Christian Fellowship-Strauss Lounge-7-10 P.M. . ''Mo onchildren\--N ott Memorial Theater...,S PM. Saturday, November 14 Union v. Hamilton-Football Field-1 :30 P.M. Film-88016-7, 9, 11 P.M. ''Moon children'' --N ott Memorial Theater...,S P.M. Union v. Geneseo,-Achilles Rink-8 P.M. Sunday, November 15 Film-SS016-7, 9, 11 P.M. Campus Protestant Ministry- Strauss Lounge-5:30-9 P.M. Monday, November 16 Glee Club Rehearsal--Arts 202-6:15-10:15 P.M. Student Forwn-Conference Room A-7-10 P.M. Political Forum--Strauss Lounge--8-10 P.M. Concert Committee-Strauss Lounge-4:30-5:30 P.M. Taesday, November 17 Dance Workshop-Arts 202--5- 7:30 P.M. Museum~College Concert- Memorial Chapel--8 P.M. Fencing Club-Arts 202--8-11 P.M. Union . v. Plattsburgh~· Achilles Rink-8 P.M. Wednesday, November18 Film-SS016-7, 9, 11 P.M. Chess Club--Fourth Floor Lounge Hille1-8S010-7:30-9:30 P.M. Scuba Club--SSo12-7-9 P.M. Christian Fellowship-Fourth Floor Lounge-4:30-5:30 P.M. Career Center--Strauss Lounge-7-10 P.M. Thursday, November 19 \Moo nc hi ldren\ -- N ott Memorial-8 P.M. Dance Club--Strauss Lounge- 7-9 P.M. Biology Club--Conference Room A-4:30-5:30 P.M. Speakers Forum-Memorial Chapel-8 P.M. Hillel Conference Room A-7-8 P.M. Personals not accepted unless typed!! OONOORDIEN8l8 1 November 12, ;1.981 • • Ices SpaW.h Table With an Undergradua.te Degree! Professors 'Diez-Herencia, This is open to the campus · Ihrie andVinick cordially invite community. all Spanish-speaking members of the comnnmity to join them Spring Break '82 for lunch and conversation on Tilesday, November 17, at 12:30 After a cold winter in p.m. in the Pub. All levels in- Schenectady, how does Florida vited. sound? 7 days and 7 nights in Daytona Beach with students \ at 370-6118. For your Convenience Tickets for the RPI vs Union Hockey Game on November 19th, .1981 at RPI-Houston Field • House will be on Sale at the . Achilles Rink Box Office starting Nov. 2nd through Tuesday, Nov. 17, 1981. Tickets are $4;00 per person. These tickets are limited and willbe,sold on a first-come-first- served basis. No Reservations. · Facultyvs. Varsity Volleyball from Union and Skidmore Team--Challenge Match-- Colleges, March 19-28. :!heprice Wednesday, November 18, 7:00 is $239 for romtd trip express .p.m. at the Field House. transportation on a lavoratory Everyone is invited. Admission equipped, Air Conditioned free. Deluxe motorcoach; 7 nightS at Quality Inn Reef (tax included). Bronner House Party The Union College Economics Deposit $50 (includes $25 Get lucky on Friday the 13th Club presents Ms. Kay Wilder, Damage Deposit) must be :in to (Nov. 13 )! Come to Happy How- Recruiting.Specialist of Corning Mrs. Mara at Student Affairs by at Bronner House .from 4 til ? Glass Works on Thursday, December 4, 1981. Beer, Punch, and mmtchies. November 12, 3:30 p.m. in Capacity is 48 people-first Hope to see you there! Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall. come, first served basis. For She will speak on Careers at more )information call: Steve The U11ion College Fine Arts Corning: What YOU Can Do Brown at 370-6635 or Mrs. Mara and Opera Company will '-======================:::;1 present, :on Feb. 29, the fine ·· opera, \Loche la Dora\ Band Party-at Phi Delta Theta, Saturday, 10:00 P.M., featuring \Kindergarten.\ $1.00 admission at the door for rock at it'shest and all the punch and beer you can handle. · Heaven and Hell Sigma Chi's. Annual ''Heaven and Hell\ party guarantees. again to be the best party QtFall Term. Great tunes and dancing combined with the mysteries of Hell and the quiet solitude ·of Heaven add up to an amazing night of partying. Menu: Beer and Schnapps in Hell and Punch and Prayers iri Heaven. Saturday, November 14. Check starring Maria Callas, Mario Lanza, and Slim Whitman. Page 13 General Nottices Professor of Music Hugh Allen Wilson will present a solo organ recital Fr::iday, Nov. 20, in Memorial Chapel. His coRcert, the first of three, will begin at 8 PM and all members of the campus community are invited to attend . All College-owned residence halls (including fraternities) will close for the Winter recess at noon on Saturday, Dec. 12. No one may stay in the buildings past this date, Associate Dean for Residence Life David L. Wood announced. \The Potential of Hydro Power Development in the Adirondack Park\ the final presentation in the College's Adirondack Forum, will be held Julie Christie Our Prices Warren Be~tty, Julie Christie, Goldie Hawn, Lee Grant 1593 Central Ave Colonie, N.Y. 12205 869-0411 1626 Union St. Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 - 377~0317 FRIDAY THE 13th Do you dare come to Camp Crystal Lalce? Diffe.rent Drinks on every floor: Crystal Lake punch (with or without poison) Strawberry aod Banana Da.iquiris, Rum and Cokes, and good ol' beerl' RICHMOND 9:30 Wed., Nov. 18 at 7, 9 & 11:00 Nov. 13, 14 & 15 at 7, 9 & 1'1:00 Speaker's Forum . Ralph Nader Dec. 1st Tuesday 8:00 p.m. Tickets Go· On Selle Nov g 16 Box Office 2:00 on Campus 3:00 off Campus -

Page 14 OONOORDIE NSIS, November 113, 1981 BRONNER HOUSE-Female housing in Bronner House Co-Qp for Winter term only. Includes r·- . '\ meal plan. If interested .please .:_.,\ r • ~ 't:. \ call Lori, Joan, or Felicia at ll, D _, '(.•··.. 6808. b ~ • ' :· .,·]. ___ _;_ _____ _ ... \l : j~ • , • \:·~·~ STONES-SANTANA-MOLLY \\\-~ .j• q .\\'~e.,._, \. ·' HATCHET--November 27, 4 PM, Syracuse. Carrier Dome. Four tickets ~or sale. Call 6433. More General Nottices at 7:30 PM Tuesday, Nov. 17, in SS016. The cost of $8 per person may be paid at the door. SMITH BOUSE. Female roommate wanted. Winter term only. Double, scenic view. Call Ali-370-6761. For Sale: Fresh AA Duracell Batteries. 4 for $1.99. Compare! Contact Bob at X6762. Preregistration materials for the 1981:1982 Winter Term will be available beginning Monday, Nov. 16, in the Registrars Office, room 2 of the Administration Building. Required permission cards for designated winter term courses will be available from depart- ments no earlier than Thur- sday, Nov. 19. Students are urged to promptly secure all necessary preregistration materials. Skilom X ..country skis for sale (200 em, wax). With Assar poles ( 140 em, plastic bas'ke.ts). Tamson Scott, 377 .7891. MISSING~A Minolta pocket camera in a beige and brown case with a zipper. Last seen at HaleHouseSunday night 11-8. If anyone knows anything about it please call Lynn~853. The film inside it means a lot to me! Union students are invited to join the faculty for an evening of square dancing, Saturday, Nov. 14. Dancing will begin at 8:30 PM in the Arts Department dance studio, Room 202, and admission is free. The Mountebanks production of Moonchildren, Michael Weller's comic tale of the Jives of college students in 1965, opens in the Nott Memorial Theater at 8 PM this evening (Friday. Nov. 13). Per- formances will also be held at 8 PM Saturday, Nov. 14, 7 PM Sunday, Nov. 15, and Thursday, Nov. 19, and 8 PM Friday and Saturday, Nov. 20 and 21. • Ices A new musical group on campus, the Union College Concert Band, will give its first performance Wednesday, Nov. 18, in Memorial Chapel. The group will play at 10 AM that day for elementary school students of St. Madeline Sophie School in Schenectady and Christ the King School in Albany. The Institute of Administration and Management presents Japan, Inc., Tuesday, November 17, 198l.at 3:3(} P.M. in SS016. This film has been obtained through the National Film Board of Canada and deals with recent ideas and research in the field of cross-cultural management. Come and hear Noam Chomsky, noted linguist and political activist, on \The New Cold War: musion or Reality\ on November 17, 1981 at 7: 15 p.m. This will be held at The College of Saint Rose, St. Joseph's Hall, 985 Madison Ave. This is free and open to the public. On Monday, November 16th at 8:00 PM, the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers will sponsor a distinguished lecturer, Ami Berlowitz. to speak on \Magnetic Printing, an Emerging Technology.\ It will be held in Room 115 of the Social Science building. The Union College Varsity Hockey Team would like ,to give \Special Thanks\ to Kevin Angus and the newly formed pep band, \The Dutchies\ for their outstanding support at last Saturday evenings }Jockey 'game· versus American ,International College. On November 21st, 1981 the 2ndSession of Public Skating at Achilles Rink (from 3-4:3.0 PM) will be cancelled. There will be a session that same day from l- 2:30 PM. Mystic SeaportProgram The program in American Ma1·itime Studies, accredited by Williams College and taught at the Mystic Seaport Museum in Mystic, Connecticut will present information to in- terested Union students at a meeting on Tuesday, November 17, at 1:30 p.m. Professor Benjamin Labaree, director of the program, will conduct an open meeting in the Dean's Conference Room, in the Science & Engineering Building, S-100. The program at Mystic Seaport, which is rec9gnized for credit at Union, will run two sessions for next year {1982-83)- -a Fall Semester (September 7 to December 2, 1982) and a Spring Semester from February 1 to May 18, 1982. Union College is one of eighteen colleges invited to recommend students. \CAREERS IN COM- discussion on the problems of Philosophy as a male- dominated discipline. Susan Rae Peterson, a philosopher visiting with the \Society for Women in Philosophy,'' will present a paper on \The Macho Model of Philosophy.\ It will be held at 3:30 in Humanities 213; this lecture should · be stimulating and the discussion lively. Refreshments will be served, and all members of the college community are welcome. lnteJlectual Cabaret is presenting \Women in the Working World: Affects on the Family\ Monday, November 16 at 9:00 p.m. Prof. Suzanne Benack of the Psychology Dept. will be one of the speakers. The Society for Women in Philosophy will hold its Eastern Division meeting at Union College November 13 to 15. Six papers will be given Saturday, Nov. 14, and a panel discussion on \The Question of Sexist Language in Writing and Teaching\ will be held Sunday, Nov. 15. Interested persons are welcome to attend. THIS SATU·RDA Y 5-9 MUNICATIONS,\ an informal panel discussion, will beheld on Wednesday, November 18, 7-9 p.m., in Strauss Lounge. Professionals in the com- munications field will discuss their careers-what their jobs are like day-to-day, how one gets into the field. All are welcome. Sponsored by the Career Center. The conference will begin Friday evening, Nov. 13, with an ·executive committee meeting. On Saturday, papers will be given from9 a.m. to noon and 3:30 to 6 p.m. in Social Sciences 110. • at &------------------ The Dutch Hollow Pub 8 cut Pizza and Pitcher of Soda Friday, November 11, the Student Philosophy Forum is having an informal lecture- Ms. Lotte Swartz, Training & Communication Specialist, The Golub Corporation, Schenec- tariy will pr~se~t .~ Col1oquium on Human Resources Planning on Thursday, November 19, 1981-3:45 p.m. in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. or Beer $5.00 COKE SPECIAL Pitcher of Soda for $4.50 . and Keep the Pitcher Matching Glasses ~~l~\\t~ ( \. I ; \_ ~ - ...... ~ 75c jim's backe jim's back again. Excerpt fcrom Wallace Tripp's \Worst Sel.ler,\ SparhaWk Boo~s. Inc., • )\ \ }\ ( (I . \ j POLITICAL FORUM In Cooperation With the Film Committee Present the Movie ''Hearts and Minds'' An engrossing study of the Vietnam War • Winner of Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature. Monday Night.November 16th at 8 pm 55016 No Admission Charge ) ,~~ \\.. Oh no! jim's back a third timee Thank goodness. jim's left. / d .. '.'~.·. f: ''1

Page 14 OONOORDIENSIS~ November 1~, 1981 • Ices BROI'l\NER HOUSE-Female housing in Bronner House Co-op for Winter term only. Includes meal plan. If interested please call Leri, Joan, or Felicia at ,(> 'c , 6808. . • ~:~. -ST_O_N_E_s-s_A_N_T_A_N_A ___ M_O_L_L Y ., . . ~ · · HATCHET--November 27, 4 PM, Syracuse. Carrier Dome. Four tickets for sale. CaH 6433. More General Nottices at 7:30PM Tuesday, Nov. 17, in SS016. The cost of $8 per person may be paid at the door. SMITH HOUSE. Female roommate wanted. Winter term only. Double, scenic view. Call Ali-370-6761. For Sale: Fresh AA Duracell Batteries. 4 for $1.99. Compare! Contact Bob at X6762. Preregistration materials for the 1981:1982 Winter Term will be available beginning Monday, Nov. 16, in the Registrars Office, room 2 of the Administration Building. Required permission cards for designated winter term courses will be available from depart- ments no earlier than Thur- sday, Nov. 19. Students are urged to promptly secure all necessary preregistration materials. Skilom X -country skis for sale 1200 em, wax). With Assar poles ( 140 em, plastic baskets). Tamson Scott, 377. 7891. MISSING-A Minolta pocket camera in a beige and brown case with a zipper. Last seen at Hale House Sunday night 11-·8. If anyone knows anything about it please caU Lynn-6853. The film inside it means a lot to me! Union students are invited to join the faculty for an evening of square dancing, Saturday, Nov. 14. Dancing will begin at 8:30 PM in the Arts Department dance studio, Room 202, and admission is free. The Mountebanks production of Moonchildren, Michael Weller's comic tale of the lives of college students in 1965, opens in the Nott Memorial Theater at 8 PM this evening (Friday, Nov. 13). Pef- formm'lces will also be held at 8 PM Saturday, Nov. 14, 7 PM Sunday, Nov. 15, and Thursday, Nov. 19, and 8 PM Friday and Saturday, Nov. 20 and 21. A new m1:1sical group on campus, the Union College Concert Band, will give its first performance Wednesday, Nov. 18, in Memorial Chapel. The group will play at 10 AM that day for elementary school students of St. Madeline Sophie School in Schenectady and Christ the King School in Albany. The Institute of Administration and Management presents Japan, Inc., Tuesday, November 17, 1981.at 3:30 P.M. in SS016. This film has been obtained through the National Film Board of Canada and deals with recent ideas and research in the field of cross-cultural management. Come and hear Noam Chomsky, noted linguist and political activist, on \The New Cold War: Hlusion or Reality\ on November 17, 1981 at 7: 15 p.m. This will be held at The College of Saint Rose, St. Joseph's Hall, 985 Madison Ave. This is free and open to the public. On Monday, November 16th at 8:00 PM, the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers will sponsor a distinguished lecturer, Ami Berlowitz, to speak on \Magnetic Printing, an Emerging Technology.\ It will be held in Room 115 of the Social Science building. THIS SATURDAY 5-9 at The Dutch Hollow Pub 8 cut Pizza and Pitcher of Soda or Beer $5.00 COKE SPECIAL Pitcher of Soda for $4.50 and Keep the Pitcher Matching Glasses 75c .. ~l')l~\ ( '\.._ J~)\ /\ (\ \ ) J, The Union College Varsity Hockey Team would like to give \Special Thanks\ to Kevin Angus and the newly formed pep band, \The Dutchies\ for their outstanding support at last Saturday evenings hockey game versus American International College. On November 21st, 1981 the 2nd Session of Public Skating at Achilles Rink (from 3-4:30 PM) wiH be cancelled. There wHl be a session that same day from 1- 2:30 PM. Mystic Seaport Program The program in American Maritime Studies, accredited by Williams College and taught at the Mystic Seaport Museum in Mystic, Connecticut will present information to in- terested Union students at a meeting on Tuesday, November 17, at 1:30 p.m. Professor Benja.min Labaree, director of the program, will conduct an open meeting in the Dean's Conference Room, in the Science & Engineering Building, S-100. The program at Mystic Seaport, which is recognized for credit at Union, will run two sessions for next year (1982-83)- -a Fall Semester (September 7 to December 2, 1982) and a Spring Semester from February 1 to May 18, 1982. Union College is one of eighteen colleges invited to recommend students. ''CAREERS IN COM- MUNICATIONS,\ an informal panel discussion, will be held on Wednesday, November 18, 7-9 p.m., in Strauss Lounge. Professionals in the com- munications field will discuss their careers-what their jobs are like day-to-day, how one gets into the field. All are welcome. Sponsored by the Career Center. Friday, November 11, the Student Philosophy Forum is having an informal lecture- discussion on the problems of Philosophy as a male- dominated discipline. SusaR Rae Peterson, a philosopher visiting with the \Society for Women in PhHesophy,\ will present a paper OR \The Macho Model of Philosophy.\ It will be held at 3:30 in Humanities 213; this lecture should · be stinmlating and the discussion lively. Refreshments will be served, and all members of the college community are welcome. Intellectual Cabaret is presenting \Women in the Working World: Affects on the Family\ Monday, November 16 at 9:00 p.m. Prof. Suzanne Benack of the Psychology Dept. will be one of the speakers. The Society for Women in Philosophy will hold its Eastern Division meeting at Union College November 13 to 15. Six papers will be given Saturday, Nov. 14, and a panel discussion on \The Question of Sexist Language in Writing and Teaching\ will be held Sunday, Nov. 15. Interested persons are welcome to attend. The conference will begin Friday evening, Nov. 13, with an executive committee meeting. On Saturday, papers will be given from 9 a.m. to noon and 3:30 to 6 p.m. in Social Sciences 110. & ------------------ Ms. Lotte Swartz, Training & Communication Specialist, The Golub Corporation, Schenec- t::~tiy will pr~se~t ::~ Colloquium on Human Resources Planning on Thursday, November 19, 1981-3:45 p.m. in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. POLITICAL FORUM In Cooperation With the Film Committee Present the Movie ''Hearts and Minds'' An engrossing study of the Vietnam War. Winner of Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature. . Monday Night November 16th at 8 pm 55016 No Admission Charge \_ I ..... J~ ,-4 ~'\ \\\(! ~ ~ '\ jim's back. Jim's back again. Excerpt from Wallace Tripp's \Worst Seller.'' Sparhawk Books, Inc., Oh nol Jim's back a third time. Thank goodness. jim's left. .~ ~.; ..... , 'It t . 1 1 1 j I l

• ·OONOORDIENSIS, Novembe'1' :1S, 1981 e. tees i<>:>:,;t+!f,it''''i' · · • · \'~;vnr..rwtt· :O.L(We,tl<lnna ~x: · ·· Watch out Vat'Sity Volleyball Teilm! ·The· Faeulty wm win- rl:hrlr:nr\ttt··· ·• weer.· 'Nov: t8~ ·v p.m. Field &use: ei!iil.J:fbvi:t-:ltw~~~e;._: . . . .' <---;: rv :f. -:~:: ~ - ... ··. :- v •• ·:- _., -~ ...... _u ;/.t ~ ·:·: ..

, r r 0 t 1 ' OONCORDIENSlS, November 12, 1981 e Ices Steffie-! just want to let you know that· I think. you're the best, EVER. Congratulations, we're an very ptQUd of you. I . just want~d to let' you know tbe best way I know how. With AD My Love, Paul. / Pup-rve got to think of a difft:lrent code name, this one's beooming a little over-used. Happy 6M. I lQve you always. Ted. THE STONES ARE AB· SOFUCKINGLOUTELY AMAZING!! Ness, Monger} Black Hole: Road trip to Hartford anyone? Love th()se true:kers! !los, 1 \Yby do fools fal~ in l()'\i'e?' Cindy, Worms come out in the rain, Does Henry? . 'Wingy~-Lo:ve those rubber sb.eets!-The Mattress Photographers dn it with various speeds. Heard any Murmers . about vandalism lately?. VARK! I hear one now! Sarc. Bit.-·You.tre just a cheap imitati~n of a Psyeh stUdent but we'll promote· you as soon as we get over our reactiun /formation. Your favorite fresbies Sh.itzle~*Don ft qe late for Maria-How is my favorite dinn-ar: .. we're having s a Tri·Delt?~Jooy pw! ------------~--~ Dear Steven-·Inn.oeent Carrots-Row, Row~ Row your virgin? Who are we kidding, boat • . . Love, Bo \To Last Years Third Flnor Gokibuli-Hi sweetie! Love, Nol'th Davidson, Miss yqu, love your friend John.\ Do you mine if we d'ainee wif · yo dates? Mark M.-You knockwurst. why don't you visit us? Iris and Terry- I love you and miss you:. . M.H. I'm all D.U. , .. Gidg~t) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Wow! Yonr first personal-bet this is better than roses from Steve! Love, Wildwoman J-Y ou•re · something else .... Skippy, Kipper, Bunny .and Wog. . Prince Cltuclde D. and Lady Di, cu:ngrats! From the Nads. P.S. l)id s~ tell you that rulers were supposed to-be 12\? Rich-Does Diane really do it the way sbe says? A Different Animal ToafellowD.B.ofU.C.: Hope the foot is better, can~t cheer without you. C. L. Lis & Evie: Here's to next year! K & S Brian~ Thanks for listening. More· cookies on the way. We lovE yo11. I{ & S C.L. . (my B.F.O.C.) Congrat:ulati!tns and weleome to the O.B .• of U.C. Dontt give up someday D.Bs will be recognized- (I hope!l!) Tu.die · er: You are the love of my (1 know. quit the BS) Eey<Jore Jimmy G. & Brian: We love you. The Nuns P .s.- Yes Rich, this time it is us. Don ye.now your gay apparel. Fa la la 1a ta ... and let it snow, BABY!!!!! Thankst Don't forget you. owe Puppy-l'm g-oing to eat me a hll$ing trip. The H.L.I. Mavis for dinner if you don't · from D.A. watch out! ----- ........... ~-- My· name~s Pamela Ben.OO, and nl show you girls bow it D-1'11 be over tbis weekend. . works! Shut up, you loud and over .. bearing pigs! I (I know. it's about time)-T. --------- Yes, it's mycenean and double-headed! Sheryl, Happy 1~1 t t {It's Dud.ley-Next time ycm go abQut tim.e!) Love,. the old Ricb- somepfuce far and e;totic you· mond gang. r~allY have to dr..ess the· pa~.... ~ · · ·· ·· · and no lipbleedslln luft M M & Love i$ a· bite~omeijmes. o· · · Luis: · • · .......... ...,.........~-\~· '·.:\\' .. .,,...~· ·. , RIO: T. OootejtwW(td: lit~ tu ltnn~ .. • oi tlle ·a'iJ Cheryl A.-.~Lov:e those' design;er jean$!! Love1 a sister your. fiancee's ad$'ess. :Qur , .- .. -. _...........,...,_....., ___ _ sympathY ca~ are·· Waitifti t:u · lt:.S.~ Banta m~ on. .·~all. ontl Sue S. ( Assh<lle}-1 never see you anymore! I miss you lots!! Love, Asshole - be malled,-.A UnitJJl'ofWomen- Yottr. {)rUy a sophomore. But PLEASE shoot your mother! NO~ tber's no message Rita, thanks for the spirits, you're a sweetie. Love, Ames Hey Bueko~ .. rt was a HaU()ween to remember! I'm glad we understand each other (the word is compatable). Love, A from Cal. ATTENTION UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS; A Union of W0omen needs. voltanteers to stuff uveral thousand envelopes. Please! reply thrnugh C<Jncordie Per-- sonals. Mi .Amor: HAPPY SIX MONTHS! Love, Gomez Gail, No hot. no cold and no Dear Trouble: Happy Bir~ salt?! thday l Now that you are 21~ can we do more than just hold Cindy, Do you have enough hands? Love, Sweet Cheerks. air supply? 8.-rm still waiting for Y<IU to Rach,. Can I put the cover on visit.-D your sleeping bag? -----~--~ To the Eco. Fresh.,-w.oman that 1-oooves crank calls: Call up again; 'hope yon relll~mber the phone number. 4tll Eeo. Zort''\)., How dare you be happy, ooUege ~udents are suptJosed to be nnsserable • • . speaking of misserable, survive Sheffer. McGoo ~n., GO't any cockroaches you want sm<~thered? You know where to come. Thanx ofQr making it bearablzzzzmzzz ... Rotbs!:hild Go<Jd buck to the cast and ctew Qf Moonchildl'en-Break a legl Diek: You're a shit Bi Jarman! Cootie: malade?? • Chuncky mar .. Jill, She's 'Gone, gnm, gone.' Hey; Wild Boar, Where's the tornado? Hnw are the animals? Where~s Chrissy? Luv, the Wamrat·. Dear Winnie, e.v$ . th(JUgh you're not athlete (lf tl!re ~lt~ N~tH 'Sbttke t-em ou.tt! we sttn !o!e ;ou. Mnt'JY1l~ ·. . ... ·~ ., .. \ ; ,,, .. · _ .. .,.........-~~-...-...... ........ --· ,. Hi Jike! We Wanna Be Sedated!!! Natalie: Happy Birthday to the greatest direct<~r a cast cowd have! We love you-Love, an of us Charis and Sue: rm sorry! 1 pro.n1ise I'll be a housemate again. Give me about another week. I miss you guys!-Mel I've been drained! t Larry Ronny S.-You kit your ego her~. Please reclaim it im~ medi~tely. 'Welle$ely Choir \ wangy-You are much too pedestiran •. and a bit too provincial. Jacki~ 0. BING! }\ONNY BINGl BING! Big Bad Bill, Your air guitar needs tuning. To Jimmy G. and 'arian L.- Wanna play some bocce? Your friends, B and P I-want~to-get·physical and a little animal, McGee! Zo.rr{l Diane~· We heard you diseussing a very persooal topic with Jc:mifer .. in the hallway. You\d better be more careful next time, because on a cued floor 1 some guys might hear yan! ! Interestingly yours-Two Animal'S ftiDm West . T{)c my friends at Union, with love from Italy. Robin ·We a;re' happy to announ~ that last weeks Eaglehead award went to Pete G. We congratulate him on his fine aeltievcem.ent. SFDS R.ich~ .. Initiate Roving E'ltperienees Next Eneowter! Way to go, its about time. One of y()ttt loving lab partners L.abber~-RANT. ~NT, RANT. Dave RANT, R.isa-My roommate still has your bathrobe. Just thought you might want to ~ow. A large Nosed. Green Person. Coograts, Scott, on winning this weeks Eaglebead. I hope you remember us when you are rich and famous from it. Next weeks winner} Wildman. Byla-Hope you feel better soGn! ! ...:I)elta Love .JeMtlle w;w..:N:ow that yuu~r~ a ft-. wumQ:,. ;it~··~~~ . _to .go Page 15 WILD!!! -Love, Donna K. Watch ()Ut Varsity Volleyball . Team! The Faculty will win- Wed. Nov. 18, 7 p.m. Field · House. Luis-Jive got it screwed on just right. trust me. I won't let you down again. \Yeah for Loveu Audrey Kim-·Love that cleavage Saturday Night. Oh Yeah! Kim&Ann- Thanks for getting those bagles Saturday Morn. Love ycu, Flabs & Easy Slomboids-Loved that party! Love, The Slomboids Randi-You make a beautiful bride. Love you lots. -209- 209-Polyester and Pump Power! TB-what a great pillow! the pillow tester TB-you must be the '32 model-built in mat massage and sound system P .L. I. just can •t decide • . . · A. H. Shaw-Burgandy and Sprite, what d() ya say'?! Delta Love, the ather \Shaw~~ Pooh-we know where it's at- LUck to us! Ames To my Delta sisters-· Margaritavipe, beach baby, and CalifGrnia dreaming are yours when you want them~ Good luck, rll miss you all! Delta love and mine. your devoted 1'U$b chairman. Sehitz.le-friends out of eummission are still friends. Lov-e· you, .Ames Weezy-You're sure yo11're n.ot a Troia?? Love, the neigh· bburs . To my (little'?) sisters: A WHAT?? Lovingly~ .a pledge F~to a great lab partner. Thank You. This personal redeemable for a Pep. Patty. 3M R.-Nuw when ar~ we tearing the' wall down? 0() you · still have any eggnog? Love, 002 R Neil-tbis nne is all for you. How are the alligators doing? I might j:ust come by and visit (you kn()w why) ... The crazy Germa11. Kappa Sig-nice fireplace! ! When is initiation? .... Grog? Beth!! HELLO from our side of your floor! !l A.V.E. Yes, we DO ap- preciate pe()ple with class! My Roommate and l. Tina, thanks a lot! Tina~ where did he say he was · from? Hi no, hi h<l, it's off to work·· she goes ..• Lynn-e and Beth, Honestly, he · didn't eall! · · , < 1 ul n•

Page 16 OONOORDIENSIS, zyovem·b.er 12,- 1981 they did understand..}Vhy the looks great .. Itr is an··iniT~Mnat•iv\\\ · Library always stayed the same -collection of eampus ntfWtr. · .-;ize, or why books were oid and Page two is of the same quality. {•utdated, and they fretted. But lo and behold •. on page So finally the Career Library three, the Arts and Culture 'hrew up its hands in despair. section contains the conw ·'What am I to do?\ it cried. \I tinuance of some of the worst ~~an hire a work-study student to trash ever printed in our paper. 'learch backpacks before they 1 am referring to that perennial leave the building, but that's not annoyance, \More Sordid News very fair to the nice students. I fronr Smith.\ - · ran refuse to sign out any books I truly · believe that · tht! To the' Campus eommhmty: We • would like .. to take 1his opportunity to thank those of you who came out for and showed an· interest in our \rally.\ We termed it such because it was out intention to get·p~pte ttr rally together' f()l\ an important cause ;found· lrt th'e ·play and· involVed in tr we are from the library. but that editorial staff is lowering their · wouldn't stop my books from standards when print~ a' · g.ettiri);{· s tolEmF+·\'·~~an ·\\tlu~<!k·· ·'''''Wnlrtn1:es.sPooi:lee:tio1tFtdl~:rS(llnalt?''\'''''''''''il'U:V'Wl~~vajff'sel of lither schools do, and k~ep all my rooks , under loek\\ancl,\key~ · · '·camt,US'\'at'''''laJrge:·'\'l!h-eJrEf\'is·''''attm:\·\'''''''1~la 1 V':'\\'a1tlliotl1ltff\·\'!£!Hti!{i'S'\'in~• but then students would not be adquate Personals section for able to browse at their leisure.\ such remarks. This garbage So the Career Library finally can ~ot even stand np to the title decided to issue one more plea of · · fietion. Do to·· tbe··,students:· ·A~t¥ou1,re~Jlldi'· ;,:~ ~!~~!~!=~~!!E5~~ii!~:\l enm.tgb\ to 4Je' ·respGJ1stblt1{. 'l>Ut' · you}rediggtng·yuur own graves~ That~s J'Ust plain dumb. Ahd''the dumbest thing is that·au you hundreds of nice'students are · of'the Tti'i§ tsi letting· .. ··.·· ··t·he .· ·, ha·ndf:ul··· ,, tlf -·thatthe·pap~f.'*'Sh?Julrtt • · thoughtless -studentst hurt· ··you:· ·· · · I seetne••J: ; ~'Strtitb'N''arttel?as·· Well, I dfrn't know what else to a waste of spa-ce. Get tirl of it d{), but if you have any g~nd and print so'tri~thing'that' tbp; ideas, I'm a good listener.U And average Union sttlden.t can the Career Library licked its laugh at. I wOultl' ··rather~ see wounds and waited fur a reply. . blank tha'lt that' · · · · of .t. .•.; . .:. :,:·., .. Happy Birthday To Us By PAUL GROSSMAN words con meaning \with\ and cor meaning \heart.\ We feel that the namt! rather aptly describes the way that the editors and staff approach their weekly work on the paper. large percentage of advertising. This week represents che 104th year of eoncordiensis' service to the Union College· Community. The paper ~as tn:~~~~::~;::;i:~:~=~=~~i~-;':J founded back in November- of tr 1877 \by and for the students of Over ~he years, the paper has grown considerably in size. This week's twenty-page issue is a far cry from the two-sided single sheet often found when looking at issues from the \old days.\ Those even included a The present editors, like their predecessors, have among their duties the responsibility of having each and every issue of Concordiensis lround for the archives and for all posterity. One other thing to consider: Concordiensis' - price has remained the same for the past 104 years. / sun.;ptoplem implies ·that all Union College.\ The name, \Concordiensis\' is derived from the Latin word meaning \union from the r-oot Happy Birthday to us. Below is a reproduction of the first issue of Concordiellsis~ Volume 1 issue 1. Looks have changed, but Concordiensis' responsibility to report fairly and accurately has not. CONCORDIENSIS. Vor.. I. ScHENECTADY, N. Y., NovEMBER, r877. NuMBER r. UNION UNIVERSITY. REV. E. N. POTTER, D. D., PRESIDENT. UNION C 0 LLEGE, ScnBNECTAEiv, N.Y .. -o-. '· CL.U51CAL ·Counsa.-'fbe Classical CouMe Is the usuol bacca- ~wureate course of ~merican coJleges. Students may be permitted to :•ur~ue &dditional·studies in either of' the other courses. ~. SctENTJFIC CotJRSK.-In the Scientific Course the modern tan- ' . 1ages are substit~ted for the nncien..-t, and the amount ofmatheWatical Jlld English studies is mcreascd .. 3· Scw101. ot· (.;no~• RNcilrtt-:nRtr~G.- The student in this d!!p11rt .. ment entov.,nd\•antUl!C'> nn\\ here \lllr'PL'\~\·'I in tlu: nnu.,c nf tn~tnu.:­ lt.•ll, in 1t., coll~o·t·t• •n ul m•Jilt'l-.., ln,h•tuh·nt<f 1\.nd lhhtk ... th~ Ill 1ll11111.t1lou\<.; Ill 111.111\' \\t' hy JIH• hill! Ptotii\-·•U l;jll\''>ph.', lllhiL(l.,,. .. ,,_,.u ... •ll.l~o~Ultl\ltt hn -•··q•ahlnnu.tn .. \'dkulllllt•WI ,,, Ut'lll'nuh:utd '• !ol \\ulk \' 1~. 1 IIC'I'IC Cell lhll. · .~n ;t,,·ll·•lil' '4 'uut·w,.l:nn .. lstiUJ( ut slthllc~ • .• ·, .• '•·d tf l'h'LlSLIH' 11••111 Lh_t, \ll'c.•t'lltll 1\,' '''1l~l'>t.\'1 1 1111\\' he• lltl..un hy un;..~ '\·· ''l111, ·'lllmctAutllln;•llutl, 'i t.mn•l•lnnh11Ft1ln pnrsuo I~ ()u the.: .. ,. : !··llnn nf lhl-i u. '•'t tilit'ltlc ut ttlt :11nu lt'Ul Will ho gl\•t•n, ' 'l'h~rl.' are nl~o Hilcti•tl c.·u•tr~t!!~ In .\mtlVtlcnl Ghcnll\ilt'y Mcta.llttrgy . ·n·' :\uluwl lll!itory. For «...:.au.logucs, or for '->pecinlln.fornJatltlD 1 v.ddress E. M. JENKINS, REGISTRAR, Sch<nfCiatfy, N, Y. ESTABLISa:·EI> !839. LEVI T. CLUTE, \VHOLKSALB AND R..&TIIrL.DEALER IN fiATs, CAPs, FuRs,TRUNKs, Traveling Bags, Um~rel/as, <::.~c., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. JAMES H. EAR HYTE, BnOKSELLER AND STATIONER, AND PtlDLJ~IIEJt 011 '•~k •on's Mechanics, Opllcs,.Acoustics. Trigonometry and Conic S~ctlons. Also on J~:ind l'JHW. 'fAVI.l~R LKWIS' WoRKS. ('\\\'' RodJI/S Pajtl't'tl trWi n,,.,,.,!ft.l, llirulill,l[ tfDIU lo (m((t' • . 111 STATE S·r. 1 ScHElllEC'l·Anv, N. Y. DEPAR'l;'M!;:!'IT' OF M);!DIG!N~ ALBANY ~~ EDICAL CoLLEGB.- Term commenues First Tuesday in September and contmues si.xteen weeks. Th~ plan of instruction combines clinical teaching-. wttll lectures. Special opportunities for · tbe sturl,¥ of chemistry and ot (•ractical anatomy. ExrEss!!S.-Matriculation-fce .. $s. Term fee, $1oo. Ticket for two terms, $rso. GradUation fee, ~15.. Dissecting fee, $s. Fee tor laborn... tory courc;e, $1o. l•'or Guculnrs, n.•h.lress. PRoF. JAl.OR S. MOSHER, :1!. D., Rec\'I'RAn A 16anJ, N. Y. DEPARTME:NT OF LAW. Ttm ALBJI.NY LM\ Sn1•1o1.- ll1c Cm1r'ic ut' 111'-.trudlun c·nn\l\\t\ ,,f thre'l! tc:rms: the tir-.t b,tttllh:th·m~ \•·pklllht·•· o~th, tlt~o• ~l\.·und x,,\· 1 ·m~ hor \7th. ,,n,t th~· thi11l \l.u. h .tit. ,.,,,It t•·t nt '''n~•~t 111: ,,, t\ 1 ,.,. wuolt~. Th~ nd\'IUU>II!\\' ..... tho• ... ruoh' Ill th·· Law, ill \II>~\ I\\' llh' 11'1 Jtl'dlll 117i t•am l•t• hHtn•l nH\'\\ lh''''• Th\~ l.n\\' l.tht,u ,. •)I th\• StJt·t~ ,., •ljiiJII '\ Slutlt•nl~; tlH• ,;,.lh•t,d t\ nl tlh· :--;,,Ph'IIH' t 'uu1 t ul Clw \1 hlrtl Ut•Jt.mmt•HI, a\lhl ull tiH• 11'1 tll'i ut tht.• \ \utn vi .\pltt'ILI· .. Jrl!c lol' 'linAh• tQrtn, $)\; h•t t \\''' tt:tlU'i, $•Jil: hn·tllt\,.1~·, $t_tiJ, l•'or 1uhlt'lUIHiuu, tHitll·t.•s.\ l~t\.AG IWWAR!l~, LI.,D., n\\\· .-11/>.m)', N. J•. THE DUDLEY OBSEIWATOIW, This Department of the University jg locntcd at Albany, i\nd is ·devoted especially to Astronomy a net ~leteorulog}'. For inforJnatlOn, address · PRoF. LE 1\•ts BOS~ 1 .Ait.nny, JV. Y. NOTMAN PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIO 55 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. Photographers of YAr.'E, HARVARD, PRINCETON, WESLEVA!ol, DARTMOUTH, LAFAYETTE, AN· novER, AEBOTT, PHIL. ExETER,· PHIL. ANDOVER, VASSAR AND UNION. PLAIN AND COLORED PHOTOGRAPHS FROM LO(;KET SIZE TO FULL LTFE SIZE. GROUPS., CoMPOSITION PHOTOGRAPHS AND VIEWS. COLLEGE ALIJUJJIS IN Gl?EAT VARIETY. · VELVET FR:\1\[ES, CARTE DE YISITE, VERY CHEAP; gr Our Art Gallery :ilwnys open to visitors, and Olt• planations freely giv~·n. I I I 1/) , ... 10 s:. u 02 .!!! ... Ill s:. u ~ t£i 0 ...... - 0 I s:. a. [J .. I ' I

Page 16 OONOORDIENSIS, z.rovember 1$, 1981 e~n··~~:lif~~,~~! .~t' ··. , iust to stay ·ai\ve~ B~ci.n1se it couldn't get new materials, it c:ouldn't grow, and it was not happy. The ntce. students weren't happy either, because 1 hey did not understand _ _why the I .ibrary always stayed the same '>ize, or why books were old and <•utdated, and they fretted. So finally the Career Library · hrew up its hands in despair. ·'What am I to do?\ it cried. \I ~~an hire a work-study student to <oearch backpacks before they I eave the building, but that's not very fair to the niee students. I f'an refuse to sign out any books from the Library, but that wDuldn't stop my books from getting stolen. I can do what 11t.her schools do, and keep all my books under lock and key, but then students would not be able tn browse at their leism·e.\ So the Career Library finally decided to issue one more plea to the students. <~You're old enough to be responsible, but you're digging your own graves. Thafs just plain dumb. And the . dumbest thing is that all you · hundreds of nice students are letting the handful of thoughtless students hurt you. Well, I dO'n't know what else to do, but if you have any good ideas, I'm a good listener.\ And the Career Library licked its woundsandwaited.for a reply .. (Any \unofficially borrowed\ resource materials may be returned, no questions asked, to the Career Center. Suggestions on how we can guard against recurrent theft - are welcume also.) \ · The Career Center Staff HT ownie'.~ te,rro ), . ,···:. ·-;..·::.·;,··,. ·~:.-:-: .. : .. -.-·- .. ·'.-. •:..:· .,,.>,·-~·-·rc: . oiJen:~i.~e .· ,., Union student away f~r term, lunging for news of the home front. A kindly friend sends me the. Octob~r 22 ewtign ofCt)Cordlensis. The frorif page · looks great. It is an informative collection of campus news. Page two is of the same quality. But lo and behold, . on page three, the Arts and Culture section contains the con· tinuance of some of the worst trash ever printed in our paper. I am referring to that perennial annoyanCi:!, \More Sordid News from Smith.\ · - I truly believe that the editorial staff is lowering their standards when they print a worthless collection of personal jokes that have no value for the campus at large. There is an adquate Personals section for such remarks. This garbage can not even stand up to the title of low-grade literary fiction. Do not get the wrong idea, I enjoy witty and funny materials in our newspapers. That is as long as those materials can be un- derstood by at least a majority of the campus. This is a quality that the paper should not lose. I see the\ ... Smithr' articl as a waste of space. Get rid of it and print something that th,~. average Union student can laugh at. I would rather see blank space than that pile of useless type. The only place for this type of material should be the Personals section or maybe a paper shredder. YoUtstr~y~ A. J .. Brodsky 3 Bruggemann Place Mystic, CT 06355 . *-.E'illocob:' ~,~~:f:t.=~'~t3=~t~~';', .. ··. dt:~serme ·tlltr ·residents: · nf · tiie · City of · Schenedady .. Con- c()rdiettsis, S. Nov. 1981~ ~pus Insecure~ p.1). By referring to~ dty resident as ''townie'~ Y:OU elevate the college commumty above the city residents. After doing my undergraduate and graduate work at Union, I can assure you nothing is further ''h~tt from the truth. , Also your sub-problem number two implies that all reaidents are thieves or at~ tackers of some kind. I cannot agree with this. I would like to point out that the city provides fire, police protection, and other serVices to the college. Since the college . pays no property taxes this · burden is shifted to the city residents. The end result is that the college receives all the municipal services FREE, at the expense of the city residents. It appears that all the city residents support the . college. As such they deserve more respect and should not be judged by the actions of a few. In the future, avoid the use of any skmg term when referring to the city residents. · As {Jlle last itemi l have noted the ~ltownie\ is misspelled. The correct spelling is t•towny.\ Graduate Student and Cith Resident Please Show Resp~~f To the Editors; Her~ I am in Connecticut,, a l;lisres.p~Qt (p.t• .tll~ ~el;'i,~~~ tr ... wb,en i9.U ha.ve · .so 'lit;:U,e r .· ·· ·. ct for yqur Jeli(}W:·studeqts. Yon speak abt}.ut the afreedom which the red~ white and blue symboliz.es\ yet ynu and your fraternity brothers . make students sick to their stomachs (to say the least} with blatant displays of racism at .your fraternity parties. My friends \ and l do not go out tu have a good time and see people doing \Heil·H.itler\ on the dance floor. I 'for one will. never go near your fraternity house again. In ad* dition, l can't even sign my name to this letter fo: fear of retaliation. In an env1ronment of supposedly intelligent human beings, it saddens me to see thE) lack of consideration given to fellow students. Alll can dojs hope that some day you Will show some of the Hrespect\ you speak about t() your fellow· citi~ens. -· Sincerely, A very, Very C(}ncerned Student Puzzle Answer from page 8 Moonchildren .~ •. ~.~, .. ,A· ·d•-l;l··1·s· ·~\.C·o·-:1~:... · :·u · v To the Campus Community: We would like to take this opportunity to thank those of you who came out for and showed an interest in our \rally.\ 'We· termed it such because it was our intention to get people to rally together for an important cause found in the play and to get people involved in a carnp-us happening. We are aware it was a put-on of sorts but when you see Moon children~ you will discover that the whale · play, although serious in its message, is fuli of put-ons. It to . .. .. . . ... · .... political · · · · wanted to devise a way to get people's attenticg am~ ex~jte them about something that will be happening here. Moon· children is about every one Qf us. lt iS abouta gr(lyp 9( collgg~ seniors trying to . compreben<l what is l,lapp'¢t~ing JP- tllem- selves and to th~ \'{ur~<l bl w,hieh thEY ... Ill~t .... livf;l, .··If .··~~. . .{\pout problems · and (Je~i&iQt);s every ···. · f · tf · ·· The id ~ 011;!') 0 USUJl,JS •. ~C~. . , . .,.\•\ ,,.~a. it. the rally was takeri from the period of time with whic.h the _Admire us for Qt,. least atw t{lmpting to get people rallying. It was not meant tu fool you or to m~e you1 or us, ·look like fools, ·but w.-exctte and interest y()u in the.aff.airs uf not only the wartct but on this . CQllege campus J'iS .~ell •.. :rtds.,was . our· orl.ly intention. We hope it was aceomplished .. Thank you for l~stening. .. ~.· .·.::: ' . . , Sincerely. The Cas and Crew of Moonchildren Happy Birthday To Us By PAUL GROSSMAN This week represents the 104th year of Concordiensis' service to the Union College Commw1ity. The paper was founded back in November of 1877 \by and for the students of Union College.\ words con meaning \with\ and cor meaning \heart.\ We feel that the name:: rather aptly describes the way that the editors and staff approach their weekly work on the paper. large percentage of advertising. The present editors, like their predecessors, have among their duties the responsibility of having each and every issue of Concordiensis bound for the archives and for all posterity. The nam.e, \Concordiensis\ is derived from the Latin word meaning \union from the root Over the years, the paper has grown considerably in size. This week's twenty-page issue is a far cry from the two-sided single sheet often found when looking at issues from the \old days.\ Those even included a One other thing to consider: Concordiensis' price has remained the same for the past 104 years. Happy Birthday to us. Below is a reproduction of the first issue of Concordiensis, Volume 1, issue 1. Looks have changed, but Concordiensis' responsibility to report fairly and accurately has not. TH'E CONCORDIENSIS. \'o 1.. I. ScHENECTADY, N. V., NovEMBER, 1877. NuMBER I. UNION UNIVERSITY. REV. E. N. POTTER, D. D., PRESIDENT. UNION COLLEGE, SCHHNECTADV, N. V. r. ClASSICAL CouRSB.-Tbe Classic~l Cour<~e is the usual. bncca.- :11urea.tecDUfse of American co1l~g~s. Students m.o.y: be per matted to ·•ur~ue additiona.l studies in either of the other courses. ~ll!'~\' ne suhstitute.i for the nncient, nnd th.e omount of mathematical I;lE;PAR'l\ME:!'!T Of' .MEDICINE. ALDANY !iofEDtCAL CoLLEGE.-Tenn commences First Tuesday in September and continues 'ilXteen weeks. The. plan of instr~cuon combtne'S clmical teactling, wnh ll'ctures. ~pectal opportunit1es for the study of chemtstry an•l ot pra~ticu.l anatomy. E:<PE,ses.-Ma.triculation fcc, $5· Term fee, $100, Ticket for two term~. $:r~'>. Graduat10rt fcc, ~2'j. Disc;ccting fee, $s. Fee tor labora- tory c.ourc.c, $1o. For CLttulars, a.•ltlrc\i'i PRt'f. J :-\COR s !-olOSHE.R, ;:\t, D., RP.-:.l'iTR\R~ ~ll/Jr. \-JI N. l'. • :r 5CJENTIF1C c()URSK.-ln the Scientific Course the modern l.an- I .1.1d l!:.ngh\'h studie\i is mcreascd. · TuR ALBANY LA\\ ~kll•ltH _The Co 11 r.,c ut ln-.tru.-rion '\\n,\'l't\ ''' 1 _ SuinOL ot• Cl\ 1' RNtdlifo.&RING.- Th.:. stutknt Ill tlli'! dcptlrt.. three tl-rmo;: the tir ... t t..nmuu·•h nl'.: ...;,.l'l•·tnh 1 ·t 4 th, ~ln.• ~t·· .ua.l :-1••\·,·m- DEPARTMENT OF LAW. ment en1o\• ... ud\•anlaCt'.., nn\\ he-re <..Ufjhl\'\.'11 Ill tile t'll111.,C t•l ln~tnll- hur' .~ 71 11. , 111 ,1 tlh· rhu.t 'lu-. h .!lt ,.,,, It I· 1 n1 '·•U·•·t111 · ••' t·.,, '· ''\II Ill If' ~Utlt•rtt •n lll 11\lloh+ .... tn .... lllllllL'Ut-1 1\lld hunk .... tho WUUk\. 1'111• tuhnn(.Ll'•'· I••Lih·· -.tn·h· t•l th·· II\\',,,, \lh\11\, olh !1•1 •••• :,u u•.,tlnn .... nl Ill Ul\' \'l\ lh hy II II' ht~\! 1'1• 1 1• .. of I 4 alll''i''''. tll!d nh•l J.:IOI\1 I\\'. l'Uil t.~· IHUI11l 111!\•n h······. Th·· Loll\ l.lhlt\1 ,. \' ,lilt' !'-!t.u\' ,., ,,, lt\d t 1 nlitlcsl•ll \•lllldnJ; t\ I'I·Hlh u11~•H•Wli-ol,~,· nt w-.trumo:nt 1 t1 ''l'l.'tl 111 St 11 ,J,·nt\i; IIH· lu·tu,,d It till\ ,,1 t!~,. !'-uptt'l\11' t • 1 LIIl ut tlu 'I\'\ •·lk 'IIIIFillh•p.tl'ttm•nf,tllttl u1ltho· h lllh ul lht• I :uttt ul .• \ppl':ll~ l· 1•.-ll't:IIC t\u 1\·lt, :\11 J~,lo•tlh' ('tllli.,\' 1 !'UI1o,\...,lh11l ut '>hu)lcs )ri.'C f•'L\ii'Rklunn 1\1 t\'' h:Uilt\ l1•1 lhtu\,;:;,t\Vo •. ·, •c.··l 11 Jlk1tsuu· h\m tlh• \'r~t•• ,•,Jtn · '• 1111 .,, . .,, m.t\ ht• toll. en hv Ltll\. )t',,r lnloH'Ihl\llun, nth It, . ., .. , , \\''• 'lhlllt•)r,, 1 min.lllou, \ldiiU•I •tllllhLLrtl ttl pmsuo IL t)n thu ISAAC.: lC1lWARl'J~, l~I..ll,.llt~\N. •. ln• 1 t .,, tid., IL 1 ,., ti111 1 th· ul t~ll.ltllllll'lll Wilt het 1-l,h·c.·u. ,lJ,I,,u•y, N. V • 'l1Jt.:tl· .a.rc aJ-&, 1 Njh.:l 111 t ,·uursc:-~ In .\1ml vllcL\1 C~hctnl .. lr·v, Mctnlh1 rg Y '!\' \ 11 1 uml lll~tu1 y. E. M. JENKINS, REr.ts'l'R!i.R, Sduntclady, N. Y. ESTABLISHED 1839, LEVI T. CLUTE, WHOLRSALB h'ND RETAIL DEAL.HR IN HATs, CAPs, FuRs, TRUNKs, Traveling Bags, Umbr~llas, C-~£., ; ··r STATE ST., JAMES H. BARHYTE, BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER, AND PUBLISIIE!t OF 1 3-:\k Mechanics, Optics, Acoustics, Trigonometry and Conic Sections. Al~o on hand !'HOI', 'fAV!.Jr.K LIIWIS' W<lRKS. (o·/1, ..-• Ho.,ms l'aptml u11J n,, <lrtrlt.l. Jlindill.t: tlollt to onltr. lll STATE ST.! SCHENEC'J\AHY N. Y. THE DUDLEY OBSEBVATORY. This Department of the Univer!iU\\ ls locate,] at Albnny, and h devoted especittlly to Astronomy anti ~leteorolog}'. For infonnatton, a.dUress PROF. LEW'[S BOSS, Albany, N. l'. NOTMAN PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIO 55 :-.IORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. Photographers of YALE, HARVARD, PRINCETON, WESLEYAN, DARTMOUTH, LAFAYETTE, AN· DOVER, ABBOTT, PHIL. EXETER, PHIL. ANDOVER, VASSAR ANI> UNIO~. !'ROM LOCKET SIZE TO FULL LIFE SIZE. GROUP&, CoMPOSITION PHoTOGRAPHS AND VrEws. COLLEGE ALBUMS IN GREAT VARIETY. VELVET FRAMES, CARTE DE YISITE, VERY CHEAP. ;:F Our Art Gallery always open to visitors, nntl C:t• planations freely giv•·n. I I I - I , t u T~ p 6~ Ill di PI SE Sl Yl r~ s N B F J b b p n y a h n to 5 11 r c ~ l ~ t ~

........ .. , . :.·' •·. •. \' 'C .... 10 .r:. u ~ .!!! .... 10 .r:. u ~ 0 - 0 .r:. a. OONOORDIENSIS, November 1~, 1981 IPage 17 I Volleyball Challenge ... and Dean Roth,.theother halfofthescheming duo. BB Outlook By CATHY GIFFORD What happens when two of Union's most loyal volleyball fans, Dr. Kaplan and Dr. Roth, get togetJiler and start thinking volleyball? What results when Vice-President D'Andrea also joins the duo? A challenge Hlatch between the faculty and the 1981 Varsity Volleyball Squad! The faculty squad is com- ,prised of D. Klein (Eco), B. Lewis (Eco), T. Bick (Math), J. Lipton (Psych), P. Kaiden (Library), B. Connelly (Library), S. Gmelch (Soc) and G. Gmelch (Soc) at the present time. Their coach will be Lynn Barta, lately of the Varsity Squad. Her Hason with the faculty will give them added strength in the fact that she has scouted the student squad for the past ten weeks, knowing their weaknesses as well as their strengths. The student squad, bravely coaching themselves, consists of. the 1981 Varsity team: Brenda Hugick, Natalie Stone, Amy Hinshaw, Katie Schatzle, Louisa Rooney, Cheri Wong, Laura Berrish, Alicia Granlund, Kelly Green, Karen Roth, Jodi Brenner; and Cathy Gifford. The team feels con- fident going into the match after winning the Northeast Invitational Tournament and a ._ Skellar Practice. An added ByJUDIESTE~ARDT season is good. The team hopes strength lies in the fact that to beat last year's record of everyone is finally healthy and On Monday, Noverriber 1 9, Union's Women's Basketball Team beat · Albany College of Pharmacy in a scrimmage, 79- 69. It was an informal scrim- mage, but hopefully it is in- dicative of how the girls will perform for the rest of the season. seven wins and nine losses, can play at 110 percent! which would mean a winning season. They are also looking When contacted about this forward to playing mthe capital impending match, Vice district tournament at RPI, and President D'Andrea proferred to taking the crown away from the following statement: \This St. Rose, who has won it for the should be an interesting contest. last few years. 'The team has a The Varsity team is talented, good chance of reaching its aggressive, well-coached and goals. When the season starts in coming off a winning tour- the middle of January, the nament. The faculty team has The team lost one player, Sheila O'Donnell, from last year's team, and boasts nine returning players: Natalie Stone, Brenda Hugick, Julie Miller, Carol Wren, Barb Bailey, Kathy Bentley, Anne Fitzmorris, Kay Lynch and Jackie Tai:io. So far there have been only five days of practice, but Coach Lynn Barta is im- lii pressed with the team. She sees ~ much improvement over last .J year; the girls seem stronger 5i and more skilled. One problem, ~ however, is that there isn't en much ~eight on the team. The >- tallest player is Julie Miller, at .a 5 foo~ 10 inches. They might ~ have to use a running game to '§. make up for this lack. The team can count on much strength provided by Kay Lynch, who last year averaged 18 points a game and, hopefully, will lead the team again this year. In generalj the outlook for the Correction It was mistakenly reported last week that the women's cross country team would be competing last weekend at Hamilton College. The team will travel this weekend to Hamilton to take part in the New York State Women's Cross Country Cham- pionships. Be sure to wish them well before they leave on Saturday morning. basketball team will be raring been plagued with injuries; two_ to go. Volleyball arid Basketball Coach Lynn Barta WOMEN'S VARSITY BASKETBALL DATE OPPONENT Mon., N.ov. 23 HVCC (Scrimmage) H Thurs., Dec. 3 Williams (Scrimmage) A Wed., Jan. 13 Hartwick A Sat., Jan. 16 Sage H Tues., Jan. 19 Skidmore A Thurs., Jan . .21 North Adams H Sat., Jan. 23 Dominican H Tues_, Jan .. 26 Vassar A Thurs., Jan. 28 St. Rose A Mon., Feb. 1 Albany A Wed., Feb. 3 RPI H Fri., Feb. 5 LeMoyne H Mon., Feb. s Williams H Wed., Feb. 10 Sage A Fri., Feb. 12 New Paltz H Mon., Feb. 1.5 Hamilton H · Wed., Feb. 17 Oneonta H Fri., Feb. 19 &c RPI Sat., Feb. 20 4lpital District Fri., Feb. 26- NYSAIAW State · Sun., Feb. 2S Tournament A TIME 4: 15 p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. 6:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. 6.:00 p.m. 6: oo p.m. 7:00p.m. 6:00p.m. 7:00 p.m. 4:00 p:m .. 6:00 p.m. 7:00p.m. 6: OG p.m .. 7:00 p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:00 p.m. TBA of our players are out with ontological anxiety and are not expected to be ready for next week's match. Nevertheless, we have a game ,plan and a few new things which we feel will be effective.\ D'Andrea will be a line judge at this contest, as well as Deans Kaplan and Roth, who have been diligently hitting the rule books on this sport and who promise to be impartial . under the stress of refereeing ·the lines. The net official will be \'Fuzzy\ Elliott, a friend of the volleyball squad. The faculty squad has been practicing twice a week and has a strong, tough, well-educated team. Coach Barta \is an- ticipating that the power of the faculty will be awesome. They have practiced their skills to the point of perfection, and the team strength lies in its of- fensive strategy of unorthodox plays. They are anxious to exhibit their skills (if they can still walk).\ 'They have taken this match seriously enough to oder uniforms! They are also convinced that the differences in the ages of the teams will be an advantage: \Not getting older, just getting better!'' Dean Kaplan, associate Dean of Faculty, has stated that \ ... the faculty promises to go easy on the Varsity team, and they have stated that the students should simply forget that it is the faculty who determines their grades, writes their letters of recommendation and ultimately decides who is a graduate. Everyone, of course, is equal out on the court.\ ''This match is an opportunity for the students to see their professors in a more informal way. The faculty has put in a lot of effort and hopes that students will attend,\ commented Dean Kaplan. \It also gives the faculty an appreciation of what student-athletes do; how it affects their workload and grades.\ This attitude was .also reflected by Professor Lewis of Economics: \It's a chance to turn the tables. I've watched several of my students play) maybe now they can watch me. Boo or cheer; we need some gimmicks, not talent.\ He also feels that the faculty's superior poise and exce1lent coaching wiUpay off. \While not the well- oiled machine the Varsity squad is, we are practicing. TaUer is better (not older!) and we will rely on heavy blocking.\ A slightly less optiimistic view was given by Professor Klein of Economics: \We need a lot of practice and our age has no advantage. I'm hoping students will not attend! I've been letting my schqol work take precedence, and have made only 50 percent of the practices so far. It should be fair and equitable.\ Both Bruce Con- nolly and Phyllis Kaiden of the Library were optimistic of a faculty win as well as a fun time. We've had good coaching,\ stated Connolly, \ .. . but I'll have to watch Varsity vs. West Point and reserve judgement.\ Kaiden feels that \. . . we've played together befere and we have a mellow te:mperament. We're learning a lot and it will be a challenge. Varsity, be prepared!\ This event will be held on Wednesday, November 18th at 7: 00 PM in the Field House. Everyone involved with this game, especially the faculty, are psyched for it. The faculty promises some surprises as does the Varsity squad. Speaking as a student player, I would like to say: \We are ready, but we will be nice to our professors. Come and support your professors. Who knows, maybe if they lose, there won't be an increase in homework! ·Laura Berrish, pr~paring to conquer +he facuity. New BB Coach Womens sports at Union have been strengthened this year by the additioll of a new coach. Mary Gillespie coached women's soccer this fall and she is currently working as the assistant basketball coach. She will also be coaching softball in the spring. Coach Gillespie arrived at Union as an experienced and ~ well-rounded coach. She received her bachelor's degree from SUNY Albany and a MS in Physical Education from Springfield College. Previously, she coached softball and field hockey at Hudson Valley Community College and softball at RPI. She was also the assistant basketball coach at Berkshire Community College. Mary Gillespie enjoyed coaching Union soccer very mucy. She found the team enthusiastic and, the players gave their full effort most of the time. Soccer had a losing season, which made it difficult for the players to stay motivated, but Coach Gillespie feels that they did keep up enthusiasm. This attitude made it a fun season, as well as a learning one. During the season the players improved in- dividually and in their work as a team. Coach Gillespie believes that coaching the soccer team made her introduction to Union a nice experience. So far, Mary Gillespie is very pleased with Union and feels that the players she has coached are warm and friendly. Union hopes that Coach Gillespie continues to enjoy her experiences here and offers its support to her and her players. 0 - 0 ..s:::. 0. ~ a:

f f 0 0 .s::: c. OONOORDIENSIS, November 12, 1981 1page 17 ' ' ' . . . ' ' ' .. : ' .. ' . ' ~ ' . . ' . . . ~ ' . : - . . ' . . . '. ,. ,\ :~ I Volleyball Challenge By CATHY GIFFORD What happens when two of Union's most loyal volleyball fans, Dr. Kaplan and Dr. Roth, get together and start thinking volleyball? What results when Vice-President D'Andrea also joins the duo? A challenge match between the faculty and the 1981 Varsity Volleyball Squad! Dean Kaplan, one ·Of the orig·inators of the Vb challenge ... The faculty squad is com- prised of D. Klein (Eco), B. Lewis (Eco), T. Bick (Math), J. Lipton (Psych), P. Kaiden (Library), B. Connelly (Library), S. Gmelch (Soc) and G. Gmelch (Soc) at the present time. Their coach will be Lynn Barta, lately of the Varsity Squad. Her liason with the faculty will give them added strength in the fact that she has scouted the student squad for the past ten weeks, knowing their weaknesses as well as their strengths. The student squad, bravely coaching themselves, consists of, the 1981 Varsity team: ... and Dean Roth, the other half of the scheming duo. Brenda Hugick, Natalie Stone, Amy Hinshaw, Katie Schatzle, Louisa Rooney, Cheri Wong, Laura Berrish, Alicia Granlund, Kelly Green, Karen Roth, Jodi Brenner, and Cathy Gifford. The team feels con- fident going into the match after winning the Northeast Invitational Tournament and a BB Outlook By JUDIE STEINHARDT On Monday, November 9, Union's Women's Basketball Team beat Albany College of Pharmacy in a scrimmage, 79- 69. It was an informal scrim- mage, but hopefully it is in- dicative of how the girls will perform for the rest of the season. season is good. The team hopes to beat last year's record of seven wins and nine losses, which would mean a winning season. They are also looking forward to playing in the capital district tournament at RPI, and to taking the crown away from St. Rose, who has won it for the last few years. The team has a good chance of reaching its goals. When the season starts in the middle of January, the basketball team will be raring to go. - Skellar Practice. An added strength lies in the fact that everyone is finally healthy and can play at 110 percent! The team lost one player, Sheila O'Donnell, from last year's team, and boasts nine returning players: Natalie Stone, Brenda Hugick, Julie Miller, Carol Wren, Barb Bailey, Kathy Bentley, Anne Fitzmorris, Kay Lynch and Jackie Tario. So far there have been only five days of practice, but Coach Lynn Barta is im- ~ pressed with the team. She sees ~ much improvement over last ...J year; the girls seem stronger 53 and m()re skilled. One problem, ~ however, is that there isn't in much beight on the team. The >- talles(player is Julie Miller, at .o 5 foot 10 inches. They might -s have to use a running game to \li make up for this lack. The team can count on much strength provided by Kay Lynch, who last year averaged 18 points a game and, hopefully, will lead the team again this year. In general, the outlook for the Correction It was mistakenly reported last week that the women's cross country team would be competing last weekend at Hamilton College. The team will travel this weekend to Hamilton to take part in the New York State Women's Cross Country Cham- pionships. Be sure to wish them well before they leave on Saturday morning. When contacted about this impending match, Vice President D'Andrea prof erred the following statement: \This should be an interesting contest. The Varsity team is talented, aggressive, well-coached and coming off a winning tour- nament. The faculty team has been plagued with injuries; two_ Volleyball and Basketball Coach Lynn Barta WOMEN'S VARSITY BASKETBALL DATE OPPONENT Mon., Nov. 23 HVCC (Scrimmage) H Thurs., Dec. 3 Williams (Scrimmage) A Wed., Jan. 13 Hartwick A Sat., Jan. 16 Sage H Tues., Jan. 19 Skidmore A Thurs., Jan. 21 North Adams H Sat., Jan. 23 Dominican H Tues., Jan. 26 Vassar A Thurs., Jan. 28 St- Rose A Mon., Feb. 1 Albany A Wed., Feb. 3 RPI H Fri., Feb. 5 LeMoyne H Mon., Feb. 8 Williams H Wed., Feb. 10 Sage A Fri., Feb. 12 New Paltz H Mon., Feb. 15 Hamilton H Wed., Feb. 17 Oneonta H Fri., Feb. 19 & RPI Sat., Feb. 20 ~pital District Fri., Feb. 26- NYSAIAW State A Sun., Feb. 28 Tournament TIME 4: 15 p.m. 7:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. 6:00 p.m. 7:00p.m. 6:00 p.m. 6: oo p.m. 7:00 p.m. 6:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. 4:00 p;m. 6:00 p.m. 7:00p.m. 6:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. TBA of our players are out with ontological anxiety and are not expected to be ready for nex:t week's match. Nevertheless, we have a game plan and a few new things which we feel wiH be effective.\ D'Andrea will be a line judge at this contest. as well as Deans Kaplan and Roth, who have been diligently hitting the rule books on this sport and who promise to be impartial under the stress of refereeing the lines. The net 0fficial will be \Fuzzy\ Eliliott, a friend of the volleyball squad. The faculty squad has been practicing twice a week and has a strong, tough, well-educated team. Coach Barta \is an- ticipating that the power of the faculty will be awesome. They have practiced their skills to the point of perfection, and the team strength lies in its of- fensive strategy of unorthodox plays. They are anxious to exhibit their skills (if they can still walk).\ They have taken this match seriously enough to oder uniforms! They are also convinced that the differences in the ages of the teams will be an advantage: \Not getting older, just getting better!\ Dean Kaplan, associate Dean of Faculty, has stated that\ ... the faculty promises to go easy on the Varsity team, and they have stated that the students should simply forget that it is the faculty who determines their grades, writes their letters of recommendation and ultimately decides who is a graduate. Everyone, of course, is equal out on the court.,. \This match is an opportunity for the students to see their professors in a more informal way. The faculty has put in a lot of effort and hopes that students will attend,\ commented Dean Kaplan. \It also gives the faculty an appreciation of what student-athletes do; how it affects their workload and grades.\ This attitude was also reflected by Professor Lewis of Economics: \It's a chance to turn the tables. I've watched several of my students play) maybe now they can watch me. Boo or ci;Jeer; we need some gimmicks, not talent.\ He also feels that tile faculty's superior poise and excellent coaching will pay off. ''While not the well- oiled machine the Varsity squad is, we are practicing. Taller is better (not older!) and we will rely on heavy blocking.\ A slightly less optiimistic view was given by Professor Klein of Economics: ''We need a lot of practice and our age has no advantage. I'm hoping students will not attend! I've been letting my school work take precedence, and have made only 50 percent of the practices so far. It should be fair and equitable.\ Both Bruce Con- nolly and Phyllis Kaiden of the Library were optimistic of a faculty win as well as a fun time. We've had good coaching,\ stated Connolly, \ .. . but I'll have to watch Varsity vs. West Point and reserve judgement.\ Kaiden feels that \. . . we've played together before and we have a mellow temperament. We're learning a lot and it will be a challenge. Varsity, be prepared!\ This event will be held on Wednesday, November 18th at 7:00 PM in the Field House. Everyone involved with this game, especially the faculty, are psyched for it. The faculty promises some surprises as does the Varsity squad. Speaking as a student player, I would like to say: ''We are ready, but we will be nice to our professors. Come and support your professors. Who knows, maybe if they lose, there won't be an increase in homework! Laura Berrish, preparing to conquer the faculty. New BB Coach Womens sports at Union have been strengthened this year by the addition of a new coach. Mary Gillespie coached women's soccer this fall and she is currently working as the assistant basketball coach. She will also be coaching softball in the spring. Coach Gillespie arrived at Union as an experienced and ' well-rounded coach. She received her bachelor's degree from SUNY Albany and a MS in Physical Education from Springfield College. Previously, she coached softball and field hockey at Hudson Valley Community College and softball at RPI. She was also the assistant basketball coach at Berkshire Community College. Mary Gillespie enjoyed coaching Union soccer very mucy. She found the team enthusiastic and, the players gave their full effort most of the time. Soccer had a losing season. which made it difficult for the players to stay motivated, but Coach Gillespie feels that they did keep up enthusiasm. This attitude made it a fun season, as well as a learning one. During the season the players improved in- dividually and in their work as a team. Coach Gillespie believes that coaching the soccer team made her introduction to Union a nice experience. So far, Mary Gillespie is very pleased with Union and feels that the players she has coached are warm and friendly. Union hopes that Coach Gillespie continues to enjoy her experiences here and offers its support to her and her players.

Page 18 OONOORDIENSIS1 November 12, 1981 l ' :. • , .. ' . . . . . . • .. :· ' ' . : ' ; ~ . ' ' . . •. : ' ·. . . ' '' :' ' ' . . . .. . . . . '· •. • '' ''-' 'Y • • • ~, ' ' • : o • o • • ', \ ,' ' : \ ' : • ' ,' ' ' o ~ ' ' I • o : : Ruggers Tumble· By S.C. and we looked good. If we can get a good turnout this Spring, we should be even stronger.\ On the line were Tony Morgan, Joe Cardino, Eric Serilli, Tom Conway, Jeff DeMarco, Jody Karlin, and Scott Collins. : . . . . . . ' . . ~ .. . . . : .. :. ' -·~:. The Union Rugby Football Club was defeated Saturday by the Amherst RFC by scores of 16-3 and 6-3 in games A and B, respectively. In game A, the Amherst squad was first to score as a hometeam offender surged through the Union defense for a Amherst try; the extra-point kick missing. Union the I'} pushed dow11 the field, but was stopped on the Amherst five-yard line when they loss the ball in a serum- down. From here the teams went into halftime wi.th the score Hl in Amherst's favor. In the B game, Amherst narrowly defeated Union on a try good for 6 points. This was all the scoring as the final score was 6-0. Again our ruggers just couldn't put it into the end zone. Several times they pushed the ball within the Amherst .five- yard line, but loss it on penalties or in serum-downs. Playing for the B team were Lee Waxman, Jay McDermott, Bob Waaler, Chris Kline, Tim Meyer, Steve Gross, and Tom Higgins. Union Rugby player Keith Dean readies for a pass from teammate. Coming out after the five- minute break, the play was even as the ball wavered back and forth across the field ex- changing from team to team. Soon Amherst pushed the ball down the field and scored suddenly as the ball popped out of the serum-down and Amherst serum half pounced on the ball in the Union end zone for a try. This time the kick-after was good putting the score at 10~. From here it was Union's turn to score. As the ball came out for a serum-down at mid-field, newly acquired serum half Tony Morgan pitched it out to the line where it worked its way down to right wing Jeff DeMarco. DeMarco then placed a perfect drop-kick against the wind through the uprights giving the Union ruggers their three points. Then later in the game the Amherst team scored another try with the kick-after good 'to fulfill the game's scoring at 16-3. Although the score indicates that the play was seemingly dominated by Amherst, it is to the contrary. Overall, the game was controlled by the Union Squad, but several fluke plays ended up with the Amherst ruggers' scoring. Tri-captain Dave Zaltas commented saying, \We got some tough breaks that went their wa,y.\ Also commenting on the team he said, \The team greatly improved over the season and the serum put in its f:i,nest garne of the year. All in all, I'm looking forward to our season during Spring.\ Playing in the serum were Wayne Godlin, Carl Aikens, John Tierney, Doug Baumgarten, Lester Kennedy, Paul Seletzley, Dave Zaltas, Kevin Taylor, Keith Dean, and Dave Tolge. About the line, tri- captain Tom Conway added, \We had a strong line out there Support Union Athletics FOOTBALL Sat., Nov. 14 UNION· vs. Hamilton come watch Union finish their best season in 10 years Tri-Captain Eric Serilli also added, \If we can keep up the enthusiasm and get a few more guys out to play, this Spring should be a successful season. This past season was a rebuilding term with a lot of inexperienced guys.\ The Club is anxiously looking. forward to a game this weekend against Harvard and then to its Spring season. The Club was also in- vited to the Mardi Gras Tour- nament in Louisiana in February. • • • verttme By DAVE RUDEN In the most recent issue of Sports Dlustrated, one wdter gives his definition of pro basketball over the past five years: \It's the college game with better players and no four Hockey Game Ticket Procedures FULL TIME UNDERGRADUATES OF UNION COLLEGE: 1. Each student is entitled to one free ticket for PER- SONAL use, AS A VAl LABLE, upon showing valid I.D. card. Student will be allowed to pick up a maximum of two tickets if he-she has two valid 1.0. cards in his-her possession. (Excluding the one game that occurs during the College recess as stated on the schedule of ticket pick up.) 2 . .Misues of these privileges will result in loss of same. PROCEDURE .FOR PICKING UP TICKETS: 1. Dates: Listed below. 2. 8:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m. and 2:00 p.m.-4:00p.m. Enter the front entrance of the rink, once inside the lobby directly to your right is the Box Office. MAKE SURE YOU HAVE YOUR UNION COLLEGE I.D. WITH YOU. GAMES PICK UP DATES 11-14-81--Geneseo Th& Fri Nov. 12,13,1981 11-17-81--Piaitsburgh Fri & Mon, Nov. 13 & 16, 1981 11-22-81--Dartmouth Th & Fri, Nov. 19, 20,1981 12-1-81--Buffalo Fri & Mon, Nov. 27, 30, l981 FOR PURCHASE ONLY, 12-19-81, Elmira (during Winter Recess) 1-5-82--RPI 1-9-82--0swego 1-12-82--Hamilton 1-27 -82--Middlebury 2-1-82-· Brockport 2-6-82--Holy Cross 2-13-82--Westfield 2-18-82--No. Adams 2-20-82--New Haven 2-23-82--Salem State Mon & Tues, Jan. 4, 5, 1982 Th.& Fri, Jan .• 7, 8, 1982 Frl & Mon., Jan .. 8, 11, 1982 ~on&Tues,Jan.25,26,1982 Th & Fri, Jan. 28, 29,1982 Th .& Fri, Feb. 4, 5, 1982 Th & Fri, Feb. 11, 162,1982 Tu & Wed, Feb. 16, 17,$982 Th & Fri, Feb. 18, 19,1982 Fri & Mon, Feb. 19,22,1982 .t'~c1~ 464 State St. Schenectady, NY ~~ ~$ -.WE DELIVER- 374-1888 WEBSTER STRIKES SHOTS & BEER F~IDAY 9 p.m. corners.\ My definition differs substantially. The only similarities between the college and pro game is that they both use a ball, two baskets, and the same size court. The last decade has seen the NBA deteriorate into a meaningless race up and down the court. Defense is secondary to point scoring. In short, the game has become as predictable as a Brent Musberger cliche. It seems like only yesterday guys named Clyde, Hondo, and Wilt stalked tne court; men who prided themselves on doing it at both ends of the floor. Today's players, :while possessing more talent, are not as disciplined as their disciples. For every Larry Bird, who excels in all facets .of the game, there are ten John Drew's, who only seem to care about how they will look in the box: scores. However, not all the faults of the league lie with the players. The rules of the game seem to instigate the run and gun style that now exists. One example of this is the twenty-four second clock. It takes a great deal of strategy out of the game. Players rush down court in an attempt to get a shot off before tll'e buzzer. This leads to fewer passes, which in turn leads to less defense. A time clock of this duration puts strong emphasis on the offensive aspects of the game. Thus, the average fan is really watching ten gazelles racing up and down the endlines playing beat the clock. A sixty second clock would put a lot more strategy back into the sport, while not leading to boring, stq)ling contests. The excessive amounts of fouls called have also hurt the pros. In the few games I have viewed this year, play seems to stop every thirty seconds for everything frorn illegal defenses (i.e. zone defenses) to hand checking. Fans want to .see continuous actinn; -at present the .game is played on' the foul line. A re-evaluation of the rules is necessary to alleviate the never .. ending whistle blowing. Better marketing of the league is another vital need. The game elevates slam dunking and individual talent over team play. CBS, which carries NBA games, advertises Dr. J versus Kareem, rather than Philadelphia against Los Angeles. Halftime activities resembled side~show at- tractions. Stuffing contests were bad enough, but three on three games with celebrities and former stars were a bit much. Very few care whether David Steinberg and John Denver can play with Bob Cousy and Chet Walker. Red on Roundball was another attempt that failed to stimulate interest. Instead of deaiing inexcessives, halftime shimld be spent glorifying the positive .points of the league. Highlights of the past we.ek along with looking at upcoming games might do the trick. When one contrasts professional basketball to college basketball, they see an inferior product. College basketball stresses defense, team play, and a rah-rah type spirit. Each game ·means something. In an eighty-two game sched11le (I know it is easier to suggest sbortening the number of games played, but this is also a rnolley-making venture) it is hard t() get up for each game. But Vlith the ap- propriate changes and the - . proper marketing. professional basketball can :reach the heights of only a decade ago. ~~\b~@lf'@o~ ,,,,/ @@ /l,n_ .... ~ ::_ ~ ~~: ~ ~. ~. ~ - ~- HALF-PRICE NEW BOOKS ~ \ Featuring Select Books on the Arts and Politics 20% ADDITIONAL .D.ISCOUNT WITH THIS AD UNTIL NOV. 21st 510 STATE STREET, SCHENEC\TADY (One Block from Proctor\s.) c It) E ... 0 2 E· \.. 0 (/) >. .0 0 -o· !: 0. c th4 by so an ea st UJ Ps 11

,~:::..:-:~'' -~-<·'»· ,.K.· to to -at on' n of to the Los at- ests {)ll ities bit on pent of the at the asts to an lege type it is but p for ap- - the ~ cs c Ill E 0 2 ~ E .... .... 41 0 c: iJ) ... 41 >. -l _Q 2 0 s: 0. CONCORDIENSIS 1 November 12, 1981 Page 19 Football. Crushed By LOU GEORGE First downs-Middlebury 31, Union 3, rushing-Middlebury 319 yards, Union 8 yards, total yards-Middlebury 464, Union 54. These statistics are in- dicators of how the Dutchmen lared on a very cold and snowy Saturday in Vermont. Knowledgable football fans realize that a ball control of- fense helps to make a good defense. Union lacked just this; as the Union defense endured a season record 123 plays. Coach Wirth leads his team onto the turf. To describe the Middlebury onslaught, execution would have to be the primary ad ... jective used, Middlebury's offense executed to near per- fection, taking into account the poor playing conditions. Mid- ·~···: .. ! Athlete of the Week '\ 7.11 lfifl ~ . By MIKE SHARP This week's Miller Athlete of the Week honors will be shared by a pair of Union College soccer players, Hans Bukow and Mike Lewis. Both athletes earned their honors with out- standing performances in Union's 8-0 demolition of Kings Point on Saturday, November 11. Hans scored Union's second and eighth g()als. He had to work very hard to put both shets in since they were taken from very difficult angles. Hans has played on the varsity soccer team for four years, and has started since he was a freshman. An extremely Hans Bukow Concordy Picks UNION • • • 5 • • • H·amilton talented .booter, he was Rookie .of the Year for the 1978 season. He has scored thirteen goals and has had five assists for a total of eighteen points during his college career, which clinched for him the number eight position on Union's all- time scoring list. Hans is a senior Mechanical Engineering major from Miami, Florida. He went to high school in New York State, where at Valley Stream South High School he was All- Scholastic South Shore. Mike Lewis scored Union's third and fourth goals. His first shot was on a perfect pass from teammate Adny Dr€her and for his second goal he beat out two U . . 7 .· -- /• ~ \.,·~\<.~~~~\'\;</~ .';·~,%. :···~·~ defensemen and popped it over the goalie's head. Mike has played three years on the varsity soccer squad and has had a starting role for two of those years. His career record is seven goals and three assists for ten points. Mike feels that Union's strong show against Kings Point was indicative of how the team could have played the whole year. He was happy with the game and thought the team played very well. Both Hans and Mike are members of the Sigma Chi fraternity. Congratulations to both athletes and the best of luck for the team in '.82. Mike Lewis u 9 -SPORTNOTES (CNB) Bruce Melena, co-captain and left defensive end for Union College's football team, was chosen to the Eastern College Athletic Conference's weekly Division III honor roll for the second time this season. Melena was in on 1.2 tackles; blocked a kick, had a qua[\terback sack and recovered a fumble in Union's 30-6 loss to Williams College on Satu[\day October 31. Melena, a 6 foot, 205-pounder from Oneida, had been chosen to the ECAC's third weekly honor roll for his performance in Union's 10-7 upset of Albany State on October 3. Melena Is a three-year starter for the Dutchmen and a graduate of Oneida High School. He is a candidate for All- American and All~ECAC post- season honors. Melen's selection marks the fifth time this year that a Union defensive player has qualified for the honor roll. dlebury turned the ball over to the Dutchmen only twice; once on a George Oberstat in- terception, the other oFI a Tim Williamson forced fumble recovered by Bruce Melena. On the other hand the Dutchmen offense lacked any type of consistent execution. Although only one fumble was lost, a barrage of ballhandling miscues proved costly and resulted in many offensive stalls. After 26 minutes of scoreless football, the tired Union defense finally succumbed to the con- stant pressure of the Mid- dlebury offense. With 3:22 remaining in the first half Middlebury quarterback Jim Loveys connected with end Beau Coash on a 5-yard touch- down pass. The first major Union turnover came late in the second quarter. Neal Rinquist stepped in ·front of a Dan Stewart .pass on Middlebury's 33-yard line. This lead to a sustained drive to the Dut- chmen 2-yard line where Mark Conroy ran it in. Although the Middlebury offense controlled the game, Union was only trailing 14-0 at halftime. Union's only offensive highlight of the first half was a Dan Stewart 30- yard completion to Kevin Gibbons. The offense moved the ball to the Middlebury 39 (the furthest Union offensive penetration of the day) where the offense again stalled. The second half was highlighted by two Middlebury touGhdowns, one in each quarter. With this loss, the Dutchmen are now 3-4-1 and have one game remaining against Hamilton. If the Dutclunen win this game they will have a .500 season and the best record in 10 years. HAMILTON INVADES UNION CNB-Despite lgsing its last three games, Union College can still clinch its best season since 1970 if the Dutchmen can defeat rival Hamilton in the season's football finale next Saturday at horne on the Astroturf. Union takes a 3-4-1 mark against the Continentals while the Blue and Buff come into the game with an 0-7 record. The Dutclunen's last non-losing campaign came in 1970 as they concluded the year with a 5-4-0 record. Despite Hamilt<;m's record, the Continentals are a grave concern to Union. In the previous 83 meetings, Union has managed a 36-35-12 series ad- vantage. Of the dozen ties. seven have been a 0-0 draw while one was a 4-4 score. Hamilton has played some tough games this year anc.l always seems to be at its bes against Union. The Continental:- bowed to powerful Trinity by only one point, 20-19, earlier this season and last week gave WPI a battle in a 28-12 setback. WPI used the big play to score all four of its touchdowns. The winners had scoring runs of 80 and 48 yards, ca-me up with an 88-yard TD pass and blocked a punt in the end zone for their points. WPI gained 266 in total offense against Hamilton, 206 of those yards came in the three above mentioned plays. Union, meanwhile, has been unable to come with an offense in its last three games. The Dutchmen's running attack has managed only 76 yards on 111 carries during the losing streak. Overall, the offense has gained just 440 yards in three games or an average of 146.6 yards per setback. Injuries have played a big part in Union's decline. A total of 27 players have either not practiced, not played or been lost for the season because of injuries. Last week against Middlebury, the offensive and defensive lines were riddled with injuries as at least half a dozen starters were on the sidelines. Defensively, the Dutchmen continue to show their strength. Last week's 28..0 loss to Mid- dlebury could have easily been a 50-point spread if not for the defense, which was on the field most of the afternoon as the Panthers ran 104 offensive plays to just 43 for Union. Union's pride will face the supreme test Saturday against Hamilton as the Dutchmen try to keep what started out as the best season since 1949 from ending with the school's 11th straight losing year in football. SPORTS HAPPENINGS November 12-19 Varsity Football Varsity Hockey J. V. Hockey Nov. 14 Hamilton Nov. 14 Geneseo Nov. 17 Plattsburgh Nov. 19 RPI Nov. 17 Northwood Nov.l9 RPI FINAL SOCCER STATISTICS Name Tim Agar Peter Stegemann Andy Dreher Chris Morrow. Brian Shea Mike Lewis HansBukow Larry Anastasi Istvan Tamoga Evan Krinick Dave Sheridan Pete Maloy John Wheeler Goalie Records Yr Sr. Fr. Jr. So. Sr. Jr. Sr. So. Fr. Jr. Sr. Sr. , Jr. 1:30 H 8:00 H 8:00 H 7:30 A 3:30 H 3:30 H G A p 4 7 . 11 5 3 8 4 3 7 4 2 6 2 3 5 4 1 5 4 0 4 2 1 3 0 2 2 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 Gms. GA Saves 79 16 sa W-l-T George Romas Rich Russell RECORD 6-6-2 12 13 4 5 5 4·4·2 1 2-2-0

Page 20 OONOORDIENSIS, November 1!, 1981 . ~ ' . . ' ~ . . . • I' ' ',' • ' ' ' ' ' • • ',,.' '' • ' ,.· Soccer Romps to Even Record Although Union lost its fourth straight match last Wednesday they finiShed the week and the se'ason in style. The victim was a fine Division II team-Kings Point. The Point entered the match at u-a..a~ being the top Division II team in New York State. They had NCAA playoff hopes. High hopes that were soon crunched by a talented, skillful hustling Union College soccer team. · The team that won that match on Saturday was the Union College soccer team with NCAA potential. It was the team with skill, poise and desire; it was the teah that could win. Way back in September the Dut· chmen Booters arrived in Schenectady with those high hopes. Injuries were just the start. Last year's MVP Andy Dreher sl!ffered an ankle injury . that took four regular season games to hobble off. Senior Co- Captain Pete Cholakis suffered muscle pulls all season never - really getting the opportunity to lead the Dutclunen defense as they hoped. . But the other players pulled together and the team moved on. Senior Pete Maloy had an outstanding year as the strongest Dutchmen fullback. Maloy came off an injury- riddled year to rise and play with poise, confidence and skill. Maloy often st.,pped attacking forwards and then led Union on the counterattack. Senior Jeff Martin also played well mainly as a smooth, tough-to-beat fullback. Junior Frank Skorina repeated his fine season of a year ago, playing by far the toughest defen:se on the squad. At the halfback, Larry Anastasi, a sophomore, has one goal and two assists on the season, and Co-Captain Shea finished his varsity career with two goals and three assists on the season-tb.e fifth leading scorer on the team. Other distributors developed well also, not .scoring much at the beginning but then moving on to lead such wins as 5-0, 4-1, 4-0, 8-0. Dreher came on strong after his slow start to finish third in scoring with seven points on four goals and three assists. Dreher is now seventh in Union's All-Time scoring list. Junior Mike Lewis finished a strong year with four goals and one assist. Freshman Istvan Tamoga was put under heavy pressure to perform as he was Coach Magee's top recruit. Tamoga had a fine year, responding with poise to this pressure, and we can look on him in the future to lead the offensive Dutchmen charge. Junior Dave Sheridan came on strong at the end of the season after a slow beginning. The leading scorer from last year played very well in the last four Dutchmen games combining his hustle and aggressive play with his fine skills. On the offensive side of things, Union was sporadic. They had those 5-0, 4-0, 4-1, and 8~ wins but they also were shut s u out four times. On the positive side, they outscored their op- ponents by a 3()..18 margin. Union had ·a defensive 267-168 shot margin. Senior Tim Ager led the Dutchmen in scoring this year with 11 points on four goals and seven assists. He ends his career at Union with eight goals, nine assists and seven- teen points, good for ninth place on the. Ali\'Time scoring list. Hans Bukow ended the year with four goals, giving him 13 for -his career. At 18 points he finished eighth on the list. Sophomore Chris Morrow finished the year with foliT goals and three assists being the third leading scorer on the team. Junior Evan Krinick, who will go to Albany Law School, finished llis career with a goal on the season. Freshman Pete Stegemann came off the JV squad to score fi.ve goals and three assists in just eight games. In ,the goal, George Romas played well aU year. Un- fortunately he was injured in the Matist game and couldn't go for the Union College all.,time shutout record. Roma:s does hold a tie for most shutouts in a season--six--and finished his career with 12 shutouts, one behind the all-time shutout record. Junior Rich Rus~ell got the Kings Point shutout and he ' will return next year to stabilize the defense. other returnees that will prove their wcrth on the field next year are Rich Edwards, John Wheeler, Tom Cutter and Dave Carrier. In. Wednesday's 4-2 loss to ~arist 9ollege, Union struck first with a goal midway through the first period. Agar played through the Marist netminder, leaving the ball for Lewis to touch into the open net. With a few minutes left in the first half, Shea put the Eooters up 2..0. Hans Bukow made the play, driving to goal then leaving a rebound for Shea in close. As the Marist defender tried to clear the ball, Shea alertly blocked it and it bounced over the Marist goalie's head. In the second half Union faltered and Marist scored four goals. The first came on Romas as Marist scored on a penalty kick. R()mas, injured on an earlier play, was removed and Russell came in only to find a collapsed Union defense in front of him. Union's final match was a treat for the players, the fans and the coach. Coach Magee survived a .500 season, having had only two losing seasons in his nine year career at the Union hehn. Magee is Union's all-time winningest soccer coach with a 7()..44-4 record. The players enjoyed an 8~ win over the highly touted Kings Point because they had finally proved to be what was expected of them. Kings Point was completely decimated by the Union squad. Larry Anastasi started the Union game with less than ten s p P UNION PORT RTS minutes left in the first half. His ,$ goal came from w}lat was one of the best plays all .season. Morrow broke down the right side beating two defenders and then passed to Bukow who one- touched the ball to a breaking Shea. Shea then crossed the ball to Ager who passed it back for an Anastasi blast which snuck just inside the left post. Bukow to()k a:pass at 2:40 from Morrow and blasted an inside angle shot for a 2~ Union lead. This second half Union wouldn't falter. They came out and scored six goals, tying the Union record for most goals in a game. Mike Lewis got two goals at ,20:57 and 27:58 with Dreher and Tamoga getting assists making it 4-0. Union's Dreher scored at 34:03 and Ager at 36 Ininutes. John Wheeler scored off a Shea corner kick at 39:09, in what was his first goal of the season. Bukow wrapped up the awesome Dutchmen Show with his second goal of the· game at 43:09. Union finishes the season with a 6-6-2 record. There are seven seniors graduating and a strong Ui-man nucleus returning for the 1982 season. Ha.ns Bukow and a Kings Point booterdash i_n fl'le snow. Hockey Strong -To Open vs. Geneseo By DREWS. HURLEY 1he Union College Skating Dutchmen defeated the AIC Yellow Jackets on Satw-day, 6· 4, and ended their two game preseason stint without a loss. It was an impressive victory for the Dutchmen, who scored five unanswered goals in the third period after being down 4-1. Tenacious forechecking was the key to the Union victory. The first period was scoreless. Union was all over AIC, outshooting them by a 13-6 margin. The Dutchmen had several power play op- portunities, though, despite moving the puck well, they were unable to capitalize. Tod Fobare started off the scoring with a goal at 16:17 of the second period. It was Jamie Knight's solid for~checking that allowed Fobare to pick up the loose puck behind the net and stuff it between the goalie and the post. Halfway through the second period, Bart Brooks cmne out of the net after saving every shot on net. Forward Mark Gerard broke the ice for AIC at 10:19 of the second period. He finished off a nic~ pass play that goalie Mike Merlo didn't have a chance on. AIC then went on to score two goals within 11ine seconds and stun the Dutchmen. AIC pressed the rest of the period yet were outshot by Union,- 14- 10. In the third period. with both teams a man down, AIC in· creased its lead.to 4-1 on a goal by 'rom DeCosmo. Union cut the margin to 4-2 on a disputed power play goal by Mickey Perras at 7:26. The referee had originally waved the goal off, but he then allowed it after the goal judge said the puck had crossed the goal line. Bill Wernecke received an assist on the play. The game began to . heat up, and Merlo also started to get the hot hand. Union gained an advantage at this point in the game by skating five lines. AIC played only three lines. Each time Union changed, they had fresh troops that were all over the weary AIC defensemen. Bill Wall made the score 4-3 at 8:58 of the third period •. Junior co-captain Scott Fitzgerald kept the puck in the offensive zone when it looked as though AIC would break out. He passed in front to Follare who was behind the AIC defensemen. It wa~ only Fobare and the AIC goalie. Fobare shifted to the right but could only get off a weak off-balance shot. Wall was there, though, to drive. the puck into the net. G-ill Egan tied the game up at 10:04 with Don Beall getting the Elill Kirby fires on net while Mark Bon loo.ks for a rebound. assist. It was this line's strong forecheclting and passing that resulted in the tie score. Jamie Knight provided the go-ahead goal at 16:13. Tad Fobare had beaten his man and was tripped by the AIC defenseman. He managed to get the puck in front of the nE!t where Bill Wall took a shot. At this point the AIC goalie thought the delayed penalty had been called and stood up from his crouched position only to have Knight shoot in Wall's rebound. Jamie Knight finished off AIC by meeting up with a Rich Petit open net ·shot and depositing it in the net. Union outshot AIC 20- 11 in the third period for a game total of 47 sbots for Union and 21 for AIC. Head coach Charlie Morrison n()ted after the game, \This game was a tremendous team .effort. The spirit on the bench was unbelievable. Thtlse kids were not going to be denied.'' Coach M.orrison will take his young and confident· team, along with the newly formed hockey band that is located above the Zamboni room, into the first regular season game Saturday, against Geneseo. The folloVIing Tuesday, Union will host Plattsburgh State, last year,s Division II NCAA finalist. Both games start at 8 p.m. - c - 1

. At his it 20- the ElSe be his AA 8 E 0 Ill z >- .0 0 0 J: c. CXI, No. Schenectady Polict= investigating CarnegJe bomb threat. Bomb Threat: ' • 4,.· o//ege 1877 November 19, 1981 Fear of Assault By ·PAUL GROSSMAN \Every member of tbe college commWlity Is guaranteed the right to live in a crime-free envlrollment.\ '81-'82 Student Handbook (p. 39) The Office of the Dean of Students is concerned with the growing fear that Union is not a safe place to be. The Security Department is also concerned. So is Women's Network; they're pushing for more safety im- provements on campus, like lighting, and are \looking into the feasibility of a student run escort service\. It is the campus community as a whole that does not seem to be con- cerned with doing any thing about the situation as evidenced by the lack of information available to those who are in a position to rectify the situation. The main problem faced by Dean Spring, Security, and even this newspaper is the lack of actual data concerning violations of either the Student Conduct Code or civil law. declined and the student would not pursue the issue. Carnegie Ev&cuated Some facts do exist. A female jogger was hit with a club by an attacker while she was jogging along the perimeter of the school. She had apparently been approached by the attacker before the actual incident, and upon reporting it to Security was advised not to jog in that area in the future. In this in- stance, Security did what it could to prevent an incident. After the attack occurred, the Security Department offered to stand by the student through any criminal proceedings in- volving the Schenectady Police Department, but that offer was Another incident occurred exclusi-vely within the college community. The female friend of a Union student was at- tacked by another Union College student. The attack was not a mild one, nor was it clandestine. It occurred at a fraternity party at the begin- ning of this term. While alleged \accomplices\ surrounded the individual, she was then thrown against the wall and was grabbed in what was reportedly an obscene manner. The Union student filed charges against the alleged attacker and his alleged accomplices. The friend filed charges in Schenectady Police Court with a District Attorney prosecuting. The Conduct Committee could not determine the facts of the case against tbe alleged accomplices By NAOMI BLANK On Wednesday, November 11, at approximately 3;30 p.m. Carnegie Hall was evacuated in response to a warning that a bomb had been placed in the building. Allegedly located in the WRUC radio station, the bomb scare was the first Union had exper~enced since 1977. Al Goldberg, Production Manager of WRUC, explained that he'd received calls earlier that morning. In those in- stances, someone had been calling the station and hanging up. Later that afternoon Jeff Dinces received a call where he was told that a bomb existed somewhere in the radio station. Soon after that call, Mark Pifko,. CORRECTIONS-FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE MONDAY, DECEMBER 7 a 2:00-4:00 p.m. Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology-sec. 3-Girdner- EY 113 . TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8 - 9:00-11:00 a.m. Spanish 133-The Spanish Language in Practical Use I-:Diez- Herencia--HU 109 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (Engineering, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics Majors)-Ohanian-SH 106 Physics 150-Modern Physics 1-Reich, Schick-SH 101 E.E. 133-Comrnunication Circuits-Ha;Ssib-BH 201 TUESDAY, DECEMBERs· - 2:00-4:00 p.m. English 76-The American Novel-Gado-HU 112 WEDNESD:AY, DECEMBERJl.- 2:03-4:00 p.m. THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10- 9:01J..11:00 a.m. Mathematics 10-Calculus I-sec. 12-Niefield-BU 106 TIUJttSDAY, DECEMBER 10 - 2:00-4:00 p.m. Chemistry 36-0rganic Chemistry I Sec. 1-Quaal-BU 204 Sec. 2-Hull-BU 204 Mathematics 18--Introduction to Logic and Set Theory-sec. 1- Niefield-BH 203 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11- 9:00-11:00 a.m. Economics 1{)-Elementary Economics-Sec. 5-Wiese-SS 112 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11 - 2:06-4:00 p.m. Spanish 10-Basic Spanish I-sec. 2-Diez-Herencia--HU 112 1981-82 WINTER TERM REGISTRATION PROCEDURES Winter term classes will begin at 8:30 a.m. on Monday, January 4th. Student schedules will be distributed to college mailboxes prior to the beginning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy o~ their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Alumni Gymnasium at 8:00a.m. on th~ fir~t day of classes. . . Formal registration and valtdatton of I. D. cards will take place m Alumni Gymnasium on Monday and Thursday, January 4th and 5th, from 8:30 to 11:30 a.m. and from 1:00 to 4:00p.m. Students· should report as follows Last Name A-E F-K 1-R S-Z Report Monday morning Monday afternoon Tuesday morning Tuesday afternoon Students may report at a time other than above should classes interfere. · . Registration will not be permitted if a student has not settled hts · winter term bill and any other outstanding indebtedness to ~he College. The Business Office will handle late payment of term b11ls and resolve hilling problems at the Gymnasiwn. Completion of and changes in schedules will be handled at th~ Gymnasimn from 8:30a.m. to 4:00 .p.m. except for the noon hour. Friday, January 8th, is the last day for making schedule ad- justments. \Pass-Fail\ requests may be filed during the first week of the term. The deadline is also January 8th. . _ In addition, please note that ~ngllsh45(Phllosopbfca1. Flctiou) S(\heduled to be offered in the Wmter Term, has been cancelled. the disc-jockey on the air Wednesdays from 1:30 to 5:00 p.m., said he had answered the phone and the caller stated that there was a bomb in the production room of the station and if he did not believe it, to wait until4:00 p.m. and find out: Goldberg then called Cliff Wood, Director of Campus Security and Safety, and ex- 'Cmitfuued on page 5 due to a lack of evidence and testim cny. The Conduct Committee hearing against the alleged attacker is pending. The matter taken up in Schenectady Police Court was brought to a dose recently when the Union student pleaded Continued on page 2 Forum to Continue Ban By EDWARD ALBRO The activities of the Yacht, Scuba, Ski, Stone Boat, Fen- cing, and Outing clubs will probably remain under their present ban until the beginning of next term. This deter- mination is the result of discussions held by Dean of Students Don Spring with Mr. Robert Heron, business manager of the College and College attorneys. From these discussions, Dean Spring learned that, contrary to what had been believed, liability for any injuries sustained by students in a Student Forum sponsored activity lies not with the administration but with the Forum itself. Thus any injured participant could sue both the Forum and its members for damages. Because of this liability, \the issue becomes how do you protect the Forum and the members of the Forum,\ Dean Spring said. He has com- municated to the Forum a set of recommendations for dealing with the situation: to legally incorporate the Forum, to in- sure all Forum members against liability, to take out insurance policies to cover individual dangerous activities, and to mandate that all student participants have personal health insurance. These recommendations were presented to the Forum at its . Monday night meeting. The Forum decided to continue the ban on the activities of the af- fected clubs, though allowing them to spend any necessary funds to prepare for next term. In addition, it was decided to incorporate the Forum and to insure the members of that body. The cost of individual in- surance policies for dangerous clubs is being examined before a decision..on this alternative is made. Forum member and trustee Will Lloyd reported that any decision on mandating individual health policies for participants would have to be • made by the Board of Trustees. He estimated the costs of in- corporation and insurance for the Forum would be ap- proximately $350 for in- corporation and $1000-2000 for - insurance. \Optimistically I would say the beginning of winter- term\ would see the completion of these two actions and so the lifting of the tern· porary ban on activities of the six clubs, Lloyd said. Both Lloyd and Forum Vice President Gary Chaddick stressed that though they sympathized with the clubs which have been hindered, the policy is a very necessary one. They. reported that it was a problem which has persisted for many years and that it is im- portant that it finally be fully understo()d and solved. Concordy Hearing On Friday 13, the Conduct Committee held a hearing to ascertain the facts concerning the publishing of the parody Concordiensis by Jeff Mitc!lell and Rich Biegen in response to a series of charges brought against the two students. The charges were presented by the Editors-in-Chief of the Con- cordiensis, Rachel Mandel and Paul Grossman on behalf of the editors and staff of Con- cordiensis, and the rest of the campus community. The Conduct Committee heard a presentation of the charges that pointed to the violation of three items of the Student Conduct Code. This was followed by a statement by Biegen and Mitchell. The two parties involved were then allowed to question one another. The members of the Committee also asked questions ·to make sure that they fUlly understood the sequence of events, and the explanations. At the conclusion of t~e hearing, Rob Mondshein, the Chairman of the Conduct Comrnittee, stated that the committee would discuss the facts presented, and would have their recommendation sub- mitted to the Dean of Students. VVhen asked to connrnent on the situation, Dean of Students Don Spring said, \The college community was concerned about the misu&e of college facilities and misrepresen- tation. The matter of the 'Parody Concordy' was evalnated. through the Conduct Committee. The Administration feels that a fair and just t·ecornmendation was advanced by H1E Conduct Committee, and appr<lpria te administrative action will ensue. The Administration is not, howevet·, at liberty to disclose specifics because confidential personal recor-ds are involved.\

Page 2 CONCORD IE NSIS, November 19, 1'981 Nader to Visit Campus By JOEY BECKERMAN On Tuesday, December l, Speaker's Forum will present Ralph Nader, America's most famous, and most effective, social critic. Nader has been called everything. from muckraker to Consumer Crusader to Public Defender. His documented criticisms of government and industry have had widespread 'eff.ect on public awareness and bureaucratic power. Nader first made headlines in 1965 with his beok, ''Unsafe-at Any Speed\; the caustic in- dictment that lambasted the auto industry for producing unsafe vehicles. This book was so effective that it has been responsible for at least six major federal consumer protection laws resulting in the recall of millions of defective motor vehicles, for many lives saved, and for countless other advances in the areas of safety, sanitation, poHution control, and advertising credibility. After years of struggle Security Continued from page 1 guilty to the charge of assault. His sentence is confidential and his identity is being withheld at this time. The facts of the situation are: that incidents can and do occur involving Union students, that steps are being taken by the Dean of Student's office, Security and this newspaper to make people aware of the ac- tual situation on campus, that Security and Maintenance are acting to improve potentially dangerous areas of the campus in the area of lighting, ac- cessibility to telephones, etc., and that the situation is one that can be dealt with through the active participation of the entire campus. Acting Dean of Students, Don Spring, and Director of Security and Safety, Cliff Wood, agreed to answer some questions regarding alleged incidents of assault and the role of the Security Department and the students. When asked if he believed that there was an increase in the number of aggressive acts against students here at Union, Dean Spring replied, ''I know that there's a lot of allegations about some aggression. A lot of these allegations never get pursued because people are not coming forward and pressing formal charges.\ In response to the sanne question, Mr. Wood stated, \I have no reason to believe that there has been an increase in the number of alleged violations that you are talking about.\ Dean Spring proceeded to comment on a topic of par- ticular concern, that of sexual harrassment. The Dean said, ''I've been approached on two separate occasj.ons fr.om representatives of the Women's Network, and on both occasions, the women told me that there was in increase in concern over sexual assault. I know that the school has been very concerned about protecting the coeds. The problem is that we don't have any data base. I asked the Women's Network on both occasions to try and document the instances because we need more documentation. If the school is to respond, we need to know what is going on, what's happening, where. The school wants to be able to protect its people.\ Mr. Wood was asked about the extent to which the Security Department would go to prevent incidences from hap- pening on campus. Mr. Wood against corporate and govern- mental abuses, Nader has become the public citizen of America politics. He has built art effective national network of citizen action groups that have a major impact in areas ranging from tax reform to nuclear energy. The ultimate goal of this movement is to give all citizens more rights as well as remedies fer resolving their grievances and achieving a better society. Today, Nader speaks of the growing ''imperalism\ od multinational corporations and of a convergence of giant corporate and government power. Nader contends that it is time for the consumer movement to advaace from ad hoc reforms to structural econ0mic change and new forms of consumer organizations. Consumers, he believes, must begin to demand \economic self-determination.\ Nader is largely responsible for bringing American consumers to a recognit-ion of where they can take alternative steps. • • • stated that people who spread rumors about incidents of aggression \are not doing a service to this school''. ''If there is a basis in fad, like Halloween night I put on four extra policemen, two from Down- town, and two of our own people, we had no incidents whatsoever reported to us, vandalism was at a minimum: we had no problems.\ \We have had no major assaults on this campus, we have had no rapes on this campus in the seven years that I've been here- none.\ \This is not a case of a department on this campus not doing their job. We do things that we don't have to do.\ \If whoever was assaulted had come over to us because say, they were chased from 0ne end of the college to tbe other, that's a perfect chance for the RA's to come to us, for the person to come to us. \I don't think that there's been a day on this campus that I haven't done sonnething that I don't have to for students.\ Referring back to rumors about incidents of assault on campus, Mr. Wood wanted to stress that without proof, the people who are spreading these rumors are doing a great disservice to the college. \When you alarm people, such as they are doing now, this will get everybody paranoid. You're gonna get some idiots to per- petrate some of this and the news media will play it up for everything they've got, and you know who's going to suffer? The students, the school, everybody. There is no way that a security department can function without the help of the people they are trying to protect.\ A specific issue that was addressed was the issue of lighting: Mr. Wood .and· Dean Spring cited the large increase i.n campus lighting but are aware that more needs to be done. The Dean reported that students were br.ou.ght up on- conduct charges for breaking a number of these lights, \They were found guilty. They had to pay for the damages and were put on social probation.\ In conclusion, Dean Spring and Mr. Wood summed up their feelings in the following ways, \.Fronn what I gather,\ said the Dean, \I think that this is a reasonably safe campus.\ Mr. Wood stated rather emphaticlally, ' 1 This campus is as safe as we can make it.\ Since Nader speaks on topics tl:lat concern us all, December 1 is a date one will want' to mark on. the calendar. On that evening Nader will focus on the thought provoking issue of the \professional responsibility of the professions''. Those interested in attending a reception after the Mr. Nader's speech, may sign up in student Activities Office today. The first 20 people will be ac- cepted. Tickets for the Speaker's Forum event cost $2.00 for the campus community and $3.00 for the general public. Speakers Forum guest Ralph Nader Memorabile Found·· BY NAOMI BLANK The original copy of the letter of resignation of its first president, Reverend 'Dr. John Blair Smith was donated to Union College this fall. Dated January 28, 1779, the letter has been unaccounted for since it had been read into the minutes of the Board of Trustees meeting in 1799. Last spring the letter was found in the attic of a Lake George, New York resident. Apparently the letter had been buried among other old items for approximately 182 years. The finder, a friend of Dr. Richard Day, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Union College, notified him as to her find. She later donated it to the college. Ruth Ann Evans and Peter Blankman are presently involved in tracing the document's past. Prior to Smith's election in October of 1795 as. President of Union College, he had been a Pastor at the Third Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia. The Church unanimously called him back to resume his ministry there. The letter, addressed to the President of the Board of Trustees .of Union College, explained, \ ... I have thought it my duty to comply with their request and accordingly am ,, }~ \?.b ',• ~ ~ ~--~. ;· ~ if .... ' .' ,2~ . '<.:~~ ~ . ' ·._ ~~~l . :. <i: desirous to resign the office, with which I have ,been honored, in Union College as soon as the present Philosophical class . shall have finished their course of study here.\ ·~ The letter was sent to the Document Restoration Center in Andover, Massachusettes, over the summer. lt has been restored and framed for its preservation for the future, and will remain in the archives .of Schaffer Library. /. .~· \' •• ,,t~ .~.. . .. < ! ....... . ,.. ~-~,;..~~:,\; .... _,,.;._.,- .... '.· /,., . .,.,., . .,;-·~. --~ .~. \\'''' ... ~r:.J ·•• ... -~./ ... ,_,:;., .. ... , .. <;·,~---4-:Js ,..~~· •• ~ '•-' -~-~- ........... :·.:., . .,._,._~-~~ <'•.;../~¢; .4 M- .~=.?:;;;~:§:;:]f.:f:§~ r\ '/.~- \\\' (·• ~- ,.,,~~~)'~ ,.,._.,,, ,.,, ,-<t' .. ,.v>~..,_...,,_;/ c~: -.f{';•, >Y:\f•; (, ' .. ,.-! <'J~,.:..f' • •%\:' .t\ .....,.:: q. A <• > • ~ \'t$}> ;-\:i. ---~~~ • .£,:· r•- .. 4.--:f- .. (-.:: · ', . ,, •. : .. ·/& ::./~l~\.i'·\i.,. .•$:·~~ .!d ,;..;~A-<.1 _/''_ .,.-;::; ,_.f:? .......... ';::·~--. ~~-;.~--;:;.,., _:;- .. ;,~ .. ~ .• , .- 4.~ .. , .r~-t ·· ••• ~ ' ~->'l\'.<o-..-~ ..,, ... , ...... '· '· \-~ • • ~_;:.. - .. 01-~: ·-;· .... ,/~;;., :,_ •. _t''., jf'.~~~Y'- .11--« ..... ,.~-\'¢' \\~ .. ~- .(,. • •+-•· .,,. ..---.. ~, '-~.,.A/ J ... \- ··t.t ;.\; :~; .. ~-.-·.-: .. ; .. ~·:::.~<·~ :;:,;_~;- .. ::: -~·:;.:~:~~~~:t. · ... ~.-I\H '1\-<t''('-~·~·~(~rf:\.· /{., .o•;\ ,.._:~;(~~\' J{/f';t.r-w+\ I The only connection found to Union College, although it may have no significance, is that the house's former owner had at- tended Union in the 1930's but did not graduate from here. Two of thi~ man's relatives had graduated from Union in 1811 and 1869. Yet no conclusive evidence exists to link these men to the letter. In addition, nothing is known about related events occurring from 1869 to the present. .- • · \' __.!fur~/~.: .-q \''\Y .,•-b);.,.-h~.rl'!.<.h ~~J.n.'·t;i-';,-:-;\t~:~ 0 .} . ,.,../. ,. ~. t~ .e /- \ ~~;- .. --- -+-0 -. .,...,...._.~>_\...-- ~-- v.\'..- ~\'j_;\:t,•· '' . --~·-~ ; _______ \\\·--··---·-- _ ... -.... .t:-;(,..l .. .,~. ~~~-'Afi a ......... ....- Letter of Resignation of John Blair Smith, Union's first President. r LEADERSHIP TRAINING WORKSHOP Develop Skills in Effective leadership & Organization . Topics for Discussion: Who Sliould Attend: -How to get the most out of your meetings -How to get the most out of your membership --Effective communication -Delegation of responsibility -Group interaction -Anyone involved or interested in group leade.rsh i p -Committee chairpersons-members -Fraternity-Sorority officers -Dorm Council. members -Club officers WHEN: TONIGHT TIME: 7 ;30-9:30 pm WHERE: 4th Floor, Carnegie· Hall - Director of Security Cliff Wood speaking with Dii!an of Students Don Spring and Concordiensis Editor Paul Grossman. ,__ Q) Ill 0 ,__ co u :>- \0 s::: ~ p 0 ..... 0 .s::: 0. 1 Cl1 is! in ;Cl1 ca st\ rnl itb pr lnl TI SJI th re (!() {~} hi PI SJ l\1 As S1 w ill

1?1' I I ., I, e s e e r ' '• n s d tf . ! J ... <IJ VI 0 ... co u >- \0 c ~ E 0 ' .c a.. ,_ Q) \' 0 ,_ co u ::>- \0 c: ~ . PageS OONOORDIENSIS, November 19, 1981 I ·Events Offered ., ByBHL The Union CQllege Chemistry Club iS cme student activity that is small in budget but very large :in purpose. They try to expose Glub members to the various ·career options available to .students who have ·decided (or :tnight soon decide) to major in :the field .of Chemistry, by providing them witha variety of :information and. eXperiences. 'l'beirbasic form of activity is to sponsor speakers to lecture on tbe latest .forms of chemical r~search being done and of course, they have mixers! For example, this term the club sponsored a seminar, highlighted by , a lecture presented by M.B.Weiner who spoke on ''The Biological . Monitoring Procedures for the . Analysis of Toxic Substances in Surface Waters.\ This lecture was wen attended 'DY many interested students. Another event this term was a tour of the General Electric Silicone Manufacturing Plant in Waterford, N.Y. General Electric sent a man over to the college to bring the 15 club members to the plant. Early this fall, the club held a mixer to welcome new students in· terested in · Chemistry to the club. The Chern Club itself charg.es no ·dues but they provide an opportunity for students to join the student chapter of the American Chemical Society ( ACS) for a charge of $5.00~ It's hard to estimate the Size of the club due to the mem- bership fluctuations based on the absence of dues fee. All events are well publicized by a mailing to all Chem majors and posters placed campus-wide. Turn out to the next meeting and talk to the officers, they'll get you excited about Chemistry. Anyone interested in being a member of the PARENT'S WEEKEND COMMinEE 1982 Please contact me before the Thanksgiving breakl Thank You Jane Wood Asst. Dean of Students Ext. 6043, 6176 UNION COlLEGE FILM COMMITTEE Preliminary Schedule ·for WINTER TERM 1982 WEEKENDS Excalibur La Cage a ux Fa lis II Hair One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest 9 to 5 For Your Eyes Oitly Altered States Superman II An American Werewolf in London Stripes WEEKNIGHTS The French Lieutenant's Woman 101 Dalmatians Frat House {X) Kentucky Fried Movie · The Turning Point Airplane Being There Coalminer's Daughter Alien Off Broadway Ave. Rt. 7 Rotterdam (at the 5 corners) 355-1133 LIVE: 10-3 ... .. Forum Submits Security Suggestions All studentS have been forced to realize the potential dangers of being alone on campus at night. Due tQ the several oc· currences of attempted assaults of female students_, that we have been· informed of, the en- forcement of security has become a great concern. This is not a new problem, however there seems to be a sharp in· crease of victims. The safety of the student body should be tbe primary responsibility of the security system, and we are now pressing for your cooperation and action -in this matter. Below are several suggeStions for a more efficient and beneficial security system. 1. A more formal student security system. It is to our knowledge that there have been occurrences of vandalism and general disturbances in Richmond and North during student security hours. No person should be able to pass by security unless a phone call by the student security officer has been made to the student, which the person has come to visit, and the permission by the student has been granted. There must be strict enforcement of this rule. 2. The addition of student security in West Coilege, Fox and Davidson dorms. The first floor of each dorm is unoc- cupied in the general area and the stairways are cut off from each dorm hall. Unfortunately, on many occasions, the main I I I I I B.l.A.S. presents 1 'Roots Rock • Reggae Music\ in the Dutch Hollow Pub on Saturday, Nov.21, 1981 featuring D.J. J. R. Sanders (WRUC) and special guest \Love Buck\ from Jamaica -All Invited- Free Admission Cash Bar coupon for Bloody Mary wiih I Brunch '-------.:--------- ' doors to these dor:ms are necessary, but the option should wedged · open slightly, by the be open to all students. students, which gives an in- 4. Better lighting throughout truder easy access to get in. the entire campus. This action on the part of the - 5. Outside phones with direct students should be stopped contact to security installed at C()mpletely, however, it will at four or five major locations on most be curbed. AlSo, if an campus. At present, there is intruder is following a student, only one campus phone it is not always possible,to close avaUable to contact security, the door before he can get in. and that is in the all night study Many times people let other of the library. This is the only people in the dorm not realizing building open all night. If a they might not belo11g to the student is being followed, or if school. another student sees an in· 3. The right of all st11dents to truder bothering a fellow get a ride home -from :security student, these phones would from anywhere on campus, not make help much more ac- only from study locations. A cessible. student, if alone, should be able 6. The aid of Schen~ctady to can .security for a ride if she police to patrol the outskirts of is at any social function on our .campus more ~fte~, campus. This includes all- especially Lenox Road which lS campus functions and Greek very badly lit in areas. parties.Many times this is not Precautionary remiD.ders w protect yourself: · -Do not walk alone at night on campus. Get a friend or get a ride · from Security. _ -Do not jog at night, especially around the outside of campus. These streets are not well-lit and there is no security. It is only asking for trouble. -Always have thenlUDber of Security with you so that if it is necessary, you can contact them. -If you are confrontedby an intruder please report it to Security. It is the only way of getting tnore protection. Do not just report it to your friends, this is little help. In order for Security to make it safer on campus, they must know what is happening. Even if you wish to remain anonymous, at least report the incident. -Please try not to leave the dorm doors wedged open, as this gives access to intruders. -Always be aware of the dangers of a city campus, it is your responsibility to take all precautions possible. The Steinmetz Honors Program: Winter Offering For the third year, the Steinmetz Curriculwn will offer its core seminar, \Tile Logic of Inquiry\ during the winter term. Two faculty members new to the program v.rill team- teach the seminar this winter, Profs. Peter Heinegg (English) and Barbara Markiewicz (Psychology). They will focus this year's seminar on the redefinition of human nature, utilizing classics in both literature and modern science. Profs. Heinegg and Markiewicz have e:mphasized that they will follow a seminar format, stressing intense discussion and operi inquiry. It should particularly appeal to students who enjoy thinking and like to question, and it requires a serious commitment of time and energy on the part of all participating students. Two , seminar papers will form the basis of written work in the course. In response to questioning, both faculty members pointed out that they are looking more for certain attitudes on the part of interested students than for a high GPA. They are par- ticlllarly interested in at- tracting .students from all academic areas of the College who are particularly concerned about the nature of man. Although all faculty members will be asked to nominate Sophomores or Juniors whom they believe might be par- ticl.llarly well suited; Profs. Heinegg and Markiewicz stressed that any student may pick up an application blank and apply. In fact, some of the most interesting and stimulating students will probably come to their attention only through individual aP.. plications. Application blanks are available from either of the instructors or from Prof. Ni~hols, the Steinmetz Director. ~~$~ 464 State St. Schenectady, NY ''HEAD FIRST'' A~ .!4-~ -.WE DELIVER- 374-1888 Never a· Cover! Serving~ .Lunch, Brunch {Sunday) and Dinner Parties and Banquets r---------- 1 coupon for I I I I Second Drink Y2 Price Anytime SKI EUROPE EASTER CRUISE April 10·17, 1981 j •7 DAY CARIB. CRUISE I R.T. Alr·Aib. to Miami All Cruise Amanltlea .- _S:S. Fesllvale UNION STUDENTs-We book all kinds of travel including terms, abroad, tri s home, efc.

Page 4 OONOORDIENSIS, November 19, .1981 features Blue Skies Grant Research At Union Goes Saratoga ByD.BOOTH 1t is without regret that I announce that this will be my last \Blue Skies Over Union\ column. I have written this column for the last three years in hope that my readers might be tempted to explore all the pleasures which our world, by which I mean primarily Union and its environs, and secon· darily the entire world, has to offer. Certainly, I have discussed almost every feasible possibility: skydiving, hang- gliding, and kite 'flying, drive- ins, how to make sundaes, utilizing the Gardens, small parties, rainy-day activities, picnicking, cr()quet, and even saunas. Yet still at Union, the · air lies heavy with the thought of work, and the footloose and fancy free attitude I believe we all should have is hidden away. Where of where, are the lovers walking hand in hand into the dark glades of Jackson's Gardens, there to find some subtle ecstasy of the night? Where the starlit kisses, the warm hands? Ah, Union, the excesses of former days are now but fondly remembered. It is only pertinent to note that moderation is for monks. So let us cast aside our masks, and seek pleasure where we find it. When Neanderthal first met Neandrethalless, or better . yet, when Fraternity first met Tri-Deltess, a spark was kin- dled which keeps this game of hot pursuit in progress. Yet were the social conventions which bind us all to be discarded, this spark could glow into a flame, burning .hotter and hotter .... But let us drop our metaphors, so to speak. If there is a greater pleasure than the spiritual uplifting of that physical release, I cannot think of it. Some may call me im- moral; let me rather name myself ammorat Hedonism is the only solution to man's problems. Happy would be the land where we were free to pursue all those things which delighted our minds. This is one thing that Union has going for it; this freedom. Yet too few choose to illwninate the dark with the light of their souls. With this in mind, I have chosen to purs1,1e my pleasures where souls are freer, the women lighter- heeled. Though once they said, \Go West\ I head North, to the last frontier for freedom. In short, Blue Skies head for Saratoga, never to return. D. BOOTH thanks his readers for their patience during the last three years, and hopes that tbey have received some small pleasure from their reading. Editor's Note: D. Booth and Blue Skies will certainly be missed. Thanks, D. By TOM MEGERIAN Union College, .altllough a re4ttively small, mostly un- dergraduate school, em- phasizes research study upon both student and faculty as part of its liberal learning philosophy. This article will begin a series on the various grant funded research programs .going on at Union. Professor George But- terstein, a biologist specializing in Neuroendocrinology here at Union, is presently involved with research concerning the \Neuroendocrine mechanisms associated with puberty\. Pr o.f esso r Butterstein' s research has been funded $70,000 over a two year .period by a grant from the National Institute of Health (NIH) under the Child Health and Human Development program. He is currently working with Kim Evans, a full time lab technician for the .project, along with one graduate student, Nancy Hewitt, and three seniors, Dina DiFrancesco, Elissa Sanchez and John Chaloupka, who are taking the Biology 190 research elective. According to Professor Butterstein, the research consists ·of the use of a rat model to\ .. Explore various aspects of puberty in both the male and female .. Basically, little is known about the hormonal events which occur prior to puberty in either male or female. Right now we are concentrating on the dif- ferences that do occur in males The Features Department would like to thank everyone who contributed to Features this term. Thank You. · t'\\ and western, - does coun •J • 7Ull And so . . . moderaMn· . . ta.Ste of Seagra~s 7 & 7 E,;_Joy our quality Ln . 'th tiLe e:xczttng ds better wtth 7 & . • tit tzrs wt · soun Rocli_'n roll rJ~f:c~-in fact, everythmg ll t e... ~~ ... A,'· . and Jazz, an ! . § lr ·~ .., Rock Jt ~&o Snell .·· . Snell ~E.AGRAMiliSTIUERSCO IHC AM£RICIU4'1'MISM.H-A BlEND SO PROOf '!~ • ··:· ' \' ··~ -1..,.~. ~• • •· • \\~~ c: ~ and females. For instance, the female rat has a puberty which occurs a lot earlier (about 20 days) ;than the- male. That is basically true, for the most part, in humans too. The females will start to go through signs of puberty earlier than the male.'' Specifically, Professor Butterstein is examining the ''establishment and control of Neuroendoc.rine· rhythms in both sexes.'' The study reflects the belief that gonadal hor- mones are very important in regulating . the release of Luteinizing Hormone just before and after puberty onset. Luteinizing Hormone controls ovulation in females as well as testosterone and sperm production in males. One of the procedures now in ~e by Btitterstein and team IS the placement of cannulas (small tubes) into the heart in order to obtain sequential blood samples which, in turn, aid in the study of the pulsitile release of pituitary hormones. Professor Butterstein, who teaches Endocrinology (Bio 170) and Comparative Anatomy (Bio 32), gives talks and presentations at various medical schools and con· ferences on his research here at Union. Recently, he conducted a seminar at More House Medical School in Atlanta, telling of his work in the Neuroendocrine field. A graduate of SUNY Buffalo and Rutgers University, · Butterstein has taught at Union since 1971. In 1978, he took a sabbatical at UCLA Medical School where he was trained for . the work he is presently doing. At present, he is awaiting a decision on a grant renewal application from NIH. The renewal is for $90,000 over a three year period and is badly needed to, among other things, help fund the purchase of a new centrifuge for use in the lab work. Salary accounts for a large part of the grant, while supplies and instrmnentation, like the recently purchased gamma counter, also account for large depletions of the funding. Another major grant given to a professor at Union is one received by Professor Peter Tobiessen of the Biology Department; in conjunction With Professor Philip Snow of the Civil Engineering Depart- ment. It is a two year grant which comes from the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPSA( Clean Lakes Program which has, un- fortunately, been earmarked for total elimination by the Reagan Administration. The grant is aimed at helping Professots Tobiessen and Snow understand the growth of Potamogeton Crlspus, a weed which grows prolifically at the bottom of lakes and ponds. The funding came out of a project which monitored Collins lake in Scotia. The lake had been dredged by the EPA in order to rid it of massive amounts of infestation. by the weed P. Crispus. The dredging was very successful where it was carried out and Professors Tobiessen and Snow agreed to find out \What factors were changed ... that are important in· con~ trolling the growth of the weed.\ Three variables which were affected during the dredging were, substrate rooting medium (soil), tem- perature, and light. As the depth of the lake is affected by dredging, the amount of sunlight and temperature that is received by P. Crispus also is affected. The question Tobiessen and Snow are trying to answer is which of the three factors has the most effect on the growth of the plant. Now, one may ask why it is desired to rid lakes and ponds of the. weed P. Crispus. The an- swer is two fold. First, during the weed's growing season, arr infested lake becomes im- possible to swim, row, or fish in. Thus, the use of the lake becomes restricted for humans. As more and more people stay home for their vacations due to skyrocketing gas prices, it becomes more important to clear lakes such as Collins and thus enable them to be 1lSed as recreational facilities for people in the nearby region . Secondly, the sediment from the plantcauses a buildup of one centimeter per year on the lake bottom which is an extremely high rate as far as sediment depositing goes and poses the threat of swamp formation. Most of the two professors' research consists of both field work and lab experiments. Divers are hired to extract plant samples from Lake Collins, which are then brought back to Union for lab work. Professor Tobiessen sums up the research as an \Attempt to ·understand the factors in- fluencing the growth of P. Crispus which happens to have practical ramifications.\ The research does not require a full time technician. However, as mentioned earlier, divers are hired for plant sample ex- traction and, in addition, Union College students are paid to aid in the research during the spring and summer. Next term, a report on the work of Professor Twitty Styles and Co. Any Women interested in trying-out for the Women's Varsity Basketball Team, Practices are Mon.-Fri. 4-6 pm at the Fieldhouse For more information contact: lynne Barta .or Mary Gillespie at 6284 I m pc fe pl ci Cl A F ir: ir rc II oj tl n A b \

; f , , r ) I I OONOORDIENSJS, November 19_, 1981 features A.ffirmative Action: Union's Strategy By SAUL BERLEY Dr. D'Andrea responded by saying it, would be ''impossible to talk about such quotas or goals. We have so far to go. Our only goal is to increase the number of females. and minorities at Union.\ Professor Schadler best swnmed up the essence of .Affirmative Action by stating, \If our mission is to educate all types of · people we should diversify our faculty. What is the point of educating men and women in a white or male world? After all, it'.s a people's world.\ Page 5 ... l1l ~ ... a:l ,;,, ... u >- 'C 1: ~ >- .L'l 0 - 0 .L c. By law, Affirmative Action means that equal job op- .portunities must be provided for females and minorities. It is part of the mainstream of the civil rights laws. There i:s a catch, though. Affi.rmative Action applies only when Federal contract money is involved. This means that if an institution or corporation receives government funds, it must hire an adequate nmn~r of females and minorities from the basket of qualified people. It must be noted that Aff-irmative Action does not deserve the biased reputation of ''discriminating against whites.\ It involves only qualified people in a respective field. As long as a worker has the necessary qualifications for .performing a job, whether white, black, male, female, or other minority, he or she should have equal opportunity in the job market. The following chart shows the breakdown of .females and minorities in all positions at Union College. Prof. Schadler is Union's Affirmative Action Advisor. Now, how does Affirmative Action work here at Union? Since Union has some Federal contract money, it is bound by Affirmative Action law. Professor Margaret Schadler serves as the Affirmative Action Advisor at Union. In addition to teaching her Biology classes, she is the official who oversees that the school has followed legal procedure in all job hiring. Professor Schadler is responsible only to the top administrators, in this case Vice-President D'Andrea and President Morris. It is they who have the ability to hire. Professor Schadler's procedure is to look ~d analy~e, carefully and adequately, each depart- ment in the college. If a deficiency exists, she will note this to Vice-President D'Andrea and the chairman of the department. When I interviewed Dr. D'Andrea, he made some in- teresting comments. In terms of how the college is faring in the AA department, he claims that Union's record \has made progress, but is not outstanding. There are not very many women in faculty or senior faculty positions. With minorities, we have a few more, but not many.\ The Vice- President insists that Union is making .stronger efforts in the AA department through Professor Schadler's revitalization of the school's hiring policies. \She is making the methods of appointment more simple and more ef- fective.\ I proposed a hypothetical question to Dr. D'Andrea. Two people: one a white male, the other female or a minority member. They are vying for the same job in the college. Who would be granted the job? HIS REPLY: ''There will never be a case where two people are equally qualified. Since there are very few women and minorities teaching at Union, these two groups would bring more to the school and Union as a whole would be richer for having a more balanced faculty.\ It is important to realize that the supply of good teachers is limited. Not many people are entering this field in the 80s. All schools, ranging from small colleges to major universities, are looking for these quality instructors; thus, the competition is very fierce. I wondered if Union has any specific goals involving the number of females or minorities that it aims to hire. \ == \!:i POS!r!OS PERSO~NEL \' ·~ u :c l< != \' ~ \' ... ~ /;: ~ El :~i \' ~ ., ~i ... Total 3 1 1 4 4 3 F~le 0 0 0 0 0 0 Professor Him~r1ty 0 0 0 0 0 0 Associate· TOtal 2 1 s ' 4 2 4' ~male 0 1 0 1 0 0 ·Professor Minodty 0 0 0 0 0 Q Total 4 1 • 2 1 2 Assistant pemale 2 0 1 1 1 Professor Minority 0 0 0 a 0 . Total 1 1 1 FE!mele 0 0 0 Instructor Minority 0 a 0 Visiting Total 1 1 2 Assistant Female 0 1 0 Professor Hincdty a 0 0 Visiting Total 1 1 1 Female 0 0 0 Instructor Hinorit,, 0 0 0 \' \' ~~ ll .. il: 0 3. ... \ .. 0 ' 1 0 0 0 0 3 •. 2 . 1 0 0. 0 4 1 l 1 0 0 1 2 1 0 0 1 Df:PAR•T!oflXT~ g,tj i=!ffi ~~~ .. 4 0 0 5 0 1 ... ~ § 0 s 0 • \' I 1 i 5 ·0 i. 0 0 J I 2 i 2 2 0 0 0 1 1 0 f< :;; ffi = u .4 0 0 2 1 0 1 l 0 \' u ~ \' = I- ~ 2 0 0 s 0 0 2 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 ~ ., \' -' ·g u ;- \' ... 4 0 0 l- 2 0 \' u ~ .. = ~ 3 0 0 J 0 0 l 0 0 \' \' I- \' .. s u l 0 0 I 0 0 1 0 0 <: ...:~ < 0~ u _.., ~ ...... t;= < c \'\' ..oz \' \'\' \' 3 5 0 0 0 I 6 I 0 0 2 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 ~ ~ - I I 0' j 2 0 l l 0 i 1 0 Jamie .Lee Curtis' B'Day? By THOMAS CHING There have been rumors going around on campus that the winter schedule of films will consist of the following: Halloween I and II, a repeat of Friday the 13th closely followed by its sequel, Friday the 13th n, Prom Night, Don't Answer the Phone, The Night He Came Back, Student Bodies, Happy Birthday to Me, Don't Spit on My Grave and Motel Hell. Upon confirmation from a very close ·friend and film committee member, Tominy Ching, I was surprised at the choices·. · I had always thought the Film Committee tried its best to meet the varied tastes of the campus community. In the past The King and I was shown to the nostalgia buffs, Deliverance to the escapists and Burt Reynolds-loving grandmothers, Private Benjamin for feminists-to-be and Psycho for Alfred Hitchcock and horror lovers. But yet critically ac- claimed films like the Golden Globe winning Lies My Father Told Me, De Broca's cult classic King of Hearts and Solzhenit- syn's classic expose, One Day in the Life of Ivan Denlsovich, were virtually ignored by the campus community. Why were Ues, King of Hearts and-One day ignored? Perhaps it was because they were shown on the weekdays. But how does one explain the high turnout for Mel Brook's Blazing Saddles or Ian Fleming's The Man With the Tolden Gun. And King of Hearts was shown on the weekends. Was it because of the party staged the same night, a detrimental influence on the audience turnout? Quite unlikely, because when jam- packed Friday the 13th was shown, there were two parties going on simultaneously at Richmond and. Webster House. Okay, maybe it was the parties were at the almost-isolated Webster House and Richmond. But it still doesn't explain why there was a record turnout for instance, which I found Friday the 13th. Was it because seriously lacking after viewing everyone was afraid of striking the bloody Friday the 13th, OR out at Skidmore on the unlucky A FEELING OF PRIDE THAT Friday the 13th? Hardly, for THERE ARE STILL SOME from what I gather it is vir· MOVIES BEING PRODUCED tuallyimpossibletostrikeout at WHICH 00 NOT DEPEND ON Skidmore. ~, SEX AND VIOLENCE. However the main point <i£ If the courageous people who this very poor satire still had the good taste to view King remains unanswered. Why is of Hearts and truly enjoyed it the campus afraid of taking a had told their friends, perhaps chance with one of the lesser more people would have seen it. known movies shown by the But if viewers refuse to express Film Committee? The campus their opinions on a movie, then can hardly turn chicken and what is the Film Committee to refuse to take chances after presume when they compare they chose to board at the recepts of Friday the 13th Schenectady and eat at West and lUng of Hearts? Perhaps in College daily. There is hardly the near future the film anything to be lost ex:cept the schedule might actually include minor admission price or a few Thursday the 12th, Saturday the hours of their precious time. 14th; Jamie Lee Curtis' Blr- But think what one might end up thday, Jamie Lee Curtis' with after viewing a King of Wedding, and other Janet Hearts or a Lies My Father Told. Maslin favorites listed in the Me .. A feeling of self-worth, fol\' opening paragraph. Blame 11 'On Union By ERIC W. RUBEN I was ready. The time was right. It felt good as !Slipped Oll my jeans, put on a red, stripe!l oxford shirt and covered it witl:l my classic herringbone tweet! jacket. I walked down my steps and opened the door with a!'l expectant feeling reminiscent of many similar nights. My first stop was Webster House, the famous \Where's that?'' Webster House, the all male dorm. There was a Friday the 13th party there. When I arrived there after its schedtiled start, I found eigll1 salivating young men waitfug for the hundreds of women tha.t would never arrive. As I turned to leave, I thought of Richmoncl, \the Nunnery\. There was a party there as well. I traveled across the front of West CollegE and was greeted by the soUII!b! of a fire alarm. After the alarm stopped, I entered to hear many friends reply that the party was \beat\. - Havi,ngnowhere·else to turn, I checked the Pub and skeller only to find them less than exciting as well. I was suddenly reminded that there were no fraternity parties gping on. None. I was also thinking of the fraternity parties I had been to in the past. Brothers of these houses put a good deal of time, effort and money into their parties. It's funny. Often an \in~ dependent\ will criticize these parties while they drink beer, punch, and sometimes mixed drinks, all for free. After such parties, non-members enjoy making fun of these parties. And why not? If I could be a parasite and get away with it, I would. I think fraternities are the source of Social Life here on campus. But I could be wrong! ' Check Our Prices ~-.- t11B~~~ 1593 Central Ave Colonie, N. V. 12205 869-0411 1626 Union St. Schenectady, N. V. 12309 377-0317 Carnegie Evacuated • • • Continued from page 1 plained the situation. The students remained on the air until Barry Watkins, the Union College Fire Marshall, arrived. Wood immediately enacted the procedure in a bomb scare by notifying the Schenectady Police Department (who then notified the Schenectady Fire Department) and proceded to evacuate Carnegie Hall. ''The officers evacuated the building, cleared the road area, and maintained a barricade on the road,\ Wood explained, \The Schenectady Fire Department was prepared for fire, rescue, and other necessary emergencies,\ he noted. Wood continued, explaining that the Detective Division of the Schenectady Police Depart- ment was notified to get the bomb squad who later made a thorough search of the building. Five campus officers and the Fire Marshall went through the building to remove people from the premisis. The men then, along with the police depart- ment, checked for hidden bombs. Only three minutes were needed to evacuate the building and it remained evacuated for approximately twenty minutes. People were evacuated \long before the bomb was scheduled to go off,\ Wood noted. Mr. Wood congratulated the people for their rapid response to the call to evacuate and com- mented, \The biggest thing was that everyone left the bullding immediately.'' The entire operation was coordinated by Wood from the base radio located in the Security Office.

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, November 19, 1981 ~rts & Culture Mounteba,nks Reviewed: Uni.on College Concert Committee and Budweiser present a-da nee concert featuring .... Ql ~ 1'0 u Moonchildren at .th,e Nott By MICHAEL SHARP Don't expect to leave the same person as when you go in. ·Especially if you're a senior, you'd better bring someone along for moral support. The Union College Mountebank's performance of Michael Weller's Mooncblldren was no less than brilliant, and yet, the issues raised touched 'SO close to home could one honestly say that it was completely comic? Yes, there was much laughter. There had to be with an apartment full of students which included the likes of . naive Norman (Keith Felt- man), his zany girlfriend Shelly (Melissa Gold),. and the in- but it also emerges from the theatre thinking. Depth is the key to the performance; you have to look past the jokes and let the show really touch you. The production was masterful. The audience settled in to \Satisfaction\ by the Rolling Stones and the \Batman Theme\ while they got a chance to observe the set. There is a certain timelessness in the filth buildup of a students' apartment; the dirty dishes, the crumbling furniture, and the rickety appliances:were there in the mid-sixties and they are still around today. All us students felt right at hc;~me. . The action began quickly and remained that way for the rest of the performance. It was all very snappy, upbeat, and quick; one had to pay close attention to the preponderance AU along she prodded and helped the actors, ,infusing in them her energy and: inspirati()n, ·Tickets for the performances on the 19th at 7 p.m. and on the 20th and. 2fst at 8 p.m. can be purchased at the Nott Memorial box office or at the ticket h<loth in Carnegie Hall. Reservations may be obtained, call 37~153. of witty one liners and sarcastic ,_ observations of the players. .~ . The casting of the characters ~ } was uncanny. Bob, played by (j Adam Storke, is the man we all 111 • want to be; sensitive, alluring, ~ witty, and intelligent. A pretty -:_ . impressive array of personality ..c characteristics for a mere .E college senior. There might _g 1, . have been great difficulty with c.,IJi, this part, as the character could have easily risen to far above Michael Zelvin as Bob's Uncle Murray. -The GO·-GO's with special:guest Joe King· Carrasco Monday, November 23 Tickets $5 w-Union ID 8p.m., Alumn.i . at the Carnegie Box Office 25c Drafts · It's the 1960's. They eat together, protest together, sleep together. They are str.ong enough to change the world-- But are they strong enougtl to change themselves? It is time to discover. . ~ MOON CHILDREN A play by Michae·l Weller Directed by Natalie Barandes Fina I Weekend--Tonight, Friday and Saturday 8:00p.m. in Nott Memorial Theatre Tickets available at Carnegie & Nott Box Office. $2.00with I. D. $3.00 general admission ToniteSpm . Hockey Union vs. RPI Sat. Bpm Basketball Cap.itol District Tournament Finals DUTCHM,EN DANCE MARATHON FOR MDA : Jan. 16-17 12 hrs. prizes, t-shirts, music by WRUC Alumni Gym Ql' s:: 1'0 ...., ~ 0 0 .s:. c. the humorous situations of the play, but Adam pulled it off masterfully, mellifluously working his tight, angry character into the flow of the action. King Cool Not So Hot Elizabeth Baker as Kathy, and Adam Starke as Bob. separable pair of jokers, Mike (Scott Bloom) and Cootie (Robert Fast). Just to see poor Norman's face when no one will let him read, .let alone to sympathize with Shelly's strange need to sit under tables, and to marvel at Cootie and Mike's incredible timing with their one liners is enough to split anyone's sides. But shades of subtlety. What's all this talk of Vietnam rising above the verbal battle oc- - · curring as the cat gives birth? And Cootie and Mike's gay jokes. Can one really think hard enough to become a homosexual? What does one actually do after college if one isn't a doctor or a lawyer? This issue must really hit home with some Union College students. Death, also is raised, as well as human identity, love, political activism, morality, and even the generation gap. Odds are that even more serious issues were . woven into the hwnorous fabric of the play. The strength of the play is that it is funny, yet relevant. The audience laughs its head off Hugh Allen Wilson ORGAN RECITAL Friday, November 20th 8:00 pm in the Memorial Chapel Another outstanding chracter was Bob~s uncle Murray, played by Michael Zelvin. Michael's performance and Nora Singer's artful makeup worked wonders in the transformation of the youthful actor into the elderly and stolid uncle of Bob. Mr. Willis, played by Mitchell Bernstein, brought countless laughs while simultaneously portraying the hypocritical and materialistic society that the students would have to contend with following their graduation. Fine performances were also given by Wendy Zisselman as Ruth, the busybody secret admirer of Bob; Ira Baron as the haughty womanizer. Dick; and Elizabeth Baker as the callow bombshell Kathy, who moves from Bob's bed to Dick's to out the door. No small difficulty was the direction of the play, handled by Natalie Barandes. They key to her success was her ef- fectiveness in coaxing depth out of some of the potentially shallow characters. One of the .ingenious methods of Natalie to get the players to feel their parts was to have them shop for food and dine together behaving only as their· characters would. By TIM EMSWU..ER If you<tve ever heard the name Donnie Iris before, chances are - that it was in connection with his commercially successful song, \Ah! Leah!\ from his first solo album, Back on the Streets. Well, Donnie's latest was recently released on the MCA label, and it is entitled\ King Cool. Though many of you may think you do not know much of Iris' music, his sounds have been coming out of your radios for years now. He performed with the band, Wild Cherry, on one albwn and one tour. If the name Wild Cherry rings a bell, it's probably because they had a hit song, \Play That Funky Music\ a few years back. Iris' present band, the Cruisers, consists of Mark Avsec on keyboards, Marty Lee on guit'ars, Albritton McClain on bass, and Kevin Valentine on drums. Donnie sings lead and backing vocals, and· McClain, Lee, and A vsec also sing background. In a press release included with the album, the song, \Ah! Leah!\ is described as \ex- ploding from transistor radios Jam· Session Do you ever get in a jazz mood? A mood where you either want to listen to jazz, or want to pick up your instrument and play jazz? Well, the opportunity is finally here. This Saturday ni~ht there will be a concert by the Union Jazz Ensemble. On stage, at the Memorial Chapel, will be a jazz combo- consisting of keyboards, bass, drums, vibraphone, sax and trombone. Selections by Dizzy Gillespie, The Crusaders, Horace Silver and many more classical jazz artists have been chosen for the performance. But this concert will not by a typical one. Any student or faculty member is invited to participate in the session. If you have had some experience playing jazz, or have had some proficiency ori a instrument, feel free to bring it along. If you don't play an instrument, come and listen. This will be an in· formal affair to let all in• terested people find out how a jazz band communicates and how much fun can be had by playing .in a band. So come and dance, listen and mingle with the players in the band. Stop in and enjoy some good music and some good times, this Saturday night, November 21 from 8 to 10 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel. and blasting from car radios.\ Well, I had my last transistor radio when I was thi.-rteen, and I prefer the noise my car's engine makes to the noises that come out of its AM radio. And I seriously doubt that anyone whose car has a nice sound system is going to spend a lot of time listening to King Cool. (Then again, I have been known to make mistakes; I once believed that being a Grateful Dead fan was something that would go away with time.) People today tend to use a lot of labels when describing music. While it may not be a good practice, King Cool fits so nicely into the category of \Pop rock\ that I just can't resiSt using the term. I wouldn't call it disco, but it is definitely dance- oriented music, and that is one of the few positive things I can find to say about this album. The music and lyrics are standard, almost cliched, and could have been done by any of , a thousand bands. The songs are all fairly upbeat, with the usual themes of love, sex, and the hard life of a rock star. It seems painfully obvious, that this album was made with only one purpose in mind: to sell records. There is a specific segment of the record buying public to whom this album will appeal, and as long as those people keep buying, I'm sure Mr. Iris won't lose any sleep over the fact not all of us ap- preciated his latest con- tribution. · The Cruisers are certainly adequate musicians. Marty Lee's guitar work is rather impressive, but he really doesn't get many opportunities to showcase his talent on this album. All the songs seem to center around the vocal har- monies, which are rather flawless, although this is due in great part· to the use of mlilti- track recording. The piano, organ, and synthesizer of Mark Avsec are also emphasized on many of the cuts, this seems to actually detract from those songs; Avsec not being terribly impressive; Lee's guitar gets lost in -the background. The album does have its high points, of course. Tunes like \Broken Promises\ and \Love Is Like a Rock\ are lively, rocking numbers, but again they suffer from too much keyboard and too many voices. \My Girl\ is very swingy tune, just right for dancing, and features a nice saxophone solo by Kenny Blake. \The Last to Know\ sounds like Bruce Springsteen would sound if he got rid of his laryngitis, and \Color Me Blue\ is either a tribute to, or a cheap imitation of Elvis Presley. The best song on the album, in my opinion, is the title track, \King Cool\ which is highlighted by an excellent Marty Lee guitar solo. One must ignore, however, such uninspired lyrics as ''He smoked a cigarette when he played his song; he was so cool he couldn't do· no wrong.\ In closing, I'll relate a little story to you. The other day, as I was listening to the album for my second or third time, my roommate walked in. He listened for a few minutes, stalked over to the stereo, practically flung the disc off the turntable, put on a Santana albwn, and we both signed with relief. That just about says it all. Perso,na Is on Nottices. Page 12 c tl VI A 0 s f ( t s l j I

) r 1 ' t 1 :> f s J e e ' tl b ' .. !, d 0 0 e e d a n g .s ' n ), h e .e )1 .e I If .y :e s, :>, te Ia :h it I - - Page 7. e Most Wanta Student In America (CPS) James Beall may be the most wanted student in America. Beall isn't a heartthrob or a criminal. Instead he's at or near the top of his engineering class, which happenes to· be at Texas A&M-widely--recognized as one of the best ~engineering schools in the land (along With Purdue and Cal Tech).. As such, Beall's already been wined and dined by companies that want to bore him after graduation. He expects to be wooed and courted by dozens of other firms by the time he graduates later this year. He probably won't be disappointed. Nationwide recruiting for engineering grads is fierce. They are the surest bets to get good jobs among the entire Class of 1982. James Beall, as. one of the top two grade-getters at one of the top engineering colleges, just may have the best time of his life this year. \I started interviewing this summer,\ Beall recalls. \I've had two plant tours and several job offers already, one with a petro-chemical .plant and another with an aviation firm.\ He figures that whatever firm he eventually chooses will probably start him at $30,000 a year \or maybe even a little higher.\ Beall's expectations aren't out of line. The average 1982 engineering grad will earn $25,000 next year, compared to liberal arts grads, who will be scrambling for average starting salaries of $10,000. Engineering students were less than ten percent of the 1980-81 graduating class, but got 65 percent of the -pn-campus job offers, according to the College Pla.cement Council .of Betlileham, Pa. Judith Kaiset:,. a College Placement Council spokeswoman, says the current market is far different from seven years ago, when a recession in the wake of the Arab oil embargo slowed in- dustry demand for engineers, and engineering students ac- tually flocked to change their majors. \In 1972 we had 3495 engineering students enrolled,'' ACROSS 1 Mediter- ranean vessel 6 Bog down 11 Plea 12 Smaller 14 Raised 15 African antelope 17 Earth god- dess 18 Insect 19 Occurrence 20 Inlet 21 Digraph 22 Inclination 23 Noose 24 Alexandra, e.g .. 26 Mexican laborers 27 Moccasins 28 Lath 29 Cuttlefish 31 Passed by 34 Narrate 35 Stews . 36 Behold! 37 Mineral 38 Concerns 39 King Arthur's lance 40 Greek letter 41 Brittle 42 African • region 43 Soap opera, e.g. 45 Pencil part 47 Quarters 48 Evaluates DOWN 1 Frolics 2 Fencing sword 3 Man's nick- name 4 Diphthong 5 Football teams 6 Remain erect 7 Shade 8 Conjunction 9 Chinese mile 10 Vast throng 11 Monastery head 13 Harvests 16 Girl's name 19 Heath 20 Cheers 22 Spoor 23 Jumps 25 Fruit 26 Real estate maps 28 Railroad car 29 Ceases recalls Dr. Robert H. Page, Texas A&:M's dean of engineering. \Here we are iline years later With three times that number: 11,502.\ The reasons for the change are evident, he says. \Technology is getting more and: more complex, and it has created a great demand for quality engineers. The orders are out to recruit engineering students.\ Engineering enrollment at A&M is up 1000 from last year, and Page expects sitnilar in- creases in the next several years. James Beall National engineeri.ng enrollment has .skyrocketed from 195,000 in 1972 to over 350,000 in 1980, \I would expect it's up another ten percent for this current year,\ speculates Dr. W. Edward Lear, director of the American Society for Engineering Education. \The job opportunities are great,\ Lear explains. \The average four-year engineering student will have three or four job offers before graduation·, and will earn an average of $23,000 to $27,000 the first year.\ \The favorable job market has created signigicant i~­ creases in the total number of students who choose engineering as a major,\ un- CROSS WORD PUZZLE FROM COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE 30 Weirder 39 Flower 31 Transgresses 41 Labor org. 32 Encomiums 42 Make lace 33 Giver 44 Artificiallan- 35 Falls short guage 38 Stuff • 46 Sun god Answers on page \10 derstates Iowa State engineering , Dean David Boyland. \And most projections indicate the demand will con- tinue.\ But the boom, ironically enough, has pitched college engineering schools into the deepest crises in their histoFies. \I think everyone is beginft ning to see the potential disaster if we don't do.something,\ Lear warns. ''Right now we're dealing with a double-edged sword.\ Enrollment jumps have made overcrowded classes common · and impressive salary temp- tations fromprivate industry have made it bard' to hire new profs to take on the additional class load. Few new· grads choose to go on for more schooling wh,en they can get high salaries. Experienced engineering pr()fessors are leaving academia to take those higher salaries. too. \Starting teachers can expect a salary of arollild $25,000 a year,\ Lear says, \That's after thr~e years of additional schooling, plus the cost and effort to get their Ph.Ds. When they can step out of college with a B.S. and get the same salary in the private sector, they see that they wouldn't be that far ahead by continuing their education.'' Current instructors \can realize anywhere from a 30-to- 100 percent salary im- provement by moving to cor- porate jobs,\ Lear grieves. Coatlnued on page 10 College Tuition Costs Jump (CPS)-U you're already shrunken pocketbook feels even smaller there's good reason: college tuition rates have spiraled t() new heights. A just-released study by the College ·Entrance Examination Board folllld costs at four year public colleges and -private institutions are up by 16 and 13 percent, respectively. It's the fourth such increase in as many years. Stadents at state schools this fall willpay an average $819 for the year, while their counterparts at private schools will pay $3709, Combined with room, board, books, supplies, transportation and personal costs, public college undergrads will spend an average -of $3873, while private school undergrads spend $6885 this year, the College :Soard found. Costs are highest in the Northeast, where traditionally: high tuiti()DS and skyrocketing energy bills have pushed the total costs of attending some schools into the five-figure bracket Bennington College in Ver- mont tops the list at $12,030. About a -dozen ()ther schools- including Harvard, Bryn Mawr and Yale--<:ost $11,000 or more to attend this year. Although Sun.belt schools as a whole remain far less costly, tuition in tile .Sottth and South- west is rising at tbe fastest rate, according to the Southern Regional Education Board. \This year's tuition jump basically reflects last year's inflation,\ says Joe Paul Case, who coorclinated the College Board study. ''Colleges can only adjust their prices once a year, unlike a grocery store, which can adjust the price of peanut butter every lkalf hour if it so chooses.\ Case points out that \each tuition increase bas followed a comparable illcrease in the general C()St 01f living. If-and · it's a big if-the Reagan ad- ministration's f~recasts of an improved ec()nomy are realized, ther~ sllould be a cooresponding slowing of tuition hikes-a decrease in the in- crease, if you'd like.\ Take C:llarge At 11. •GPA ____ _ I ~Yt>ar in College- :1 AMajor/Minor __________ _ ~ont- Number...__,.-~--~~~~=--- 1 1 Arl'n CodrJ Bf!st T1mr to Call ThiS· I'> for Jt'f'tll\rlll rrtn .. utme-nt tnfnrnmt1on You do nnl ha\l' tu lurn1\h an\ of tht> in(ormnt1on rpqul'sted Of ('ourse thr nlnre \\.(\ knm~ the mnrP I IV(' can h£>1p to dl.lterrmne tht> k1nrl\ of Nav\· pos1t1ons fnr \h1rh v.l'lu qualify CNll ·HI a.... ___ ..... __ . ______ ..., NavyOffice~s Get. Responsibility Fast. (I!> ~-

Pa~.e_s ________________________________ ~O~O~N~O~O~R~D~l~E~N~· ~SI~B~ 1 ~N~o~v~e~.m~b~e~r-=19~,~1~9=81~----------~--~-------------------- £ditorials ~ Letters We Should Govern Ourse:lves Behind closed doors, nine students that are the Conduct Committee meet to discuss the recom- mendations that they w111 make to the Dean of Students concerning the actions of their peers. Their meetings are never announced over WRUC, and never appear in the General Nottices section of Concordiensis. Their opinions and decisions have a profound affect on the campus in general, and the students who attend school here. The purpose of having a Conduct Committee such as this is to allow the student a chance to be heard by a panel of peers. The Committee hears the charges and the \defense although it is not a legal entity, and makes a recommendation to the Dean of Students as to what action should be taken, if any. It is extremely important that the Conduct Com- mittee be allowed to do 1 ts job to the best of the Committee's ability. It cannot do this job without the support of the campus community. It is a hard but necessary job that is made more difficult by the reluctance of the students who may have witnessed, or been involved in a violation of the conduct code, to step forward and testify. This failure on the part of the students to speak out hinders the ability to make an educated and just recommendation. Certainly, if no recommendation is made due to a lack of interest or evidence, no measures can be taken to correct the situation or reprimand the offender. It is impossible for us to let an act, whether criminal or abusive. pass because we don't want to get involved, or the action was committed with \good\ intent. The students must be concerned enough about their own well-being, and the well-being of their peers, to speak up, and to stand up for their rights to atteria college without fear of being harassed or abused. The Conduct Committee wants to, and was created to, give the students an opportunity to govern themselves; they cannot, however, do their job without the cooperation and support of the very people that they are trying to protect. Given this fact, and given the low profile of the Conduct Committee, we feel that it is important for the students to know when a case has been reviewed by the Committee, and what action has been recommended. In this way, the students will realize that something constructive can be done in such an instance, and that the offenders will not walk away free. As court cases are a matter of public record, the Conduct Committee's actions should also be public record. We understand that, especially at a college of this size, it is the individual's right to maintain his or her confidentiality. Nevertheless, it is still very im- portant for the campus to recognize that there is a channel open to them to pursue such matters, and that this body will operate in the most efficient, productive and responsible manner that it can. Once again, the only way that the student body will realize this is if the Conduct Committee allows recom- mendations to become part of the public record. When an issue affects the student body, it is the right of the student body to know the outcome. Only in this way can we govern ourselves, and understand that certain acts of aggression and irresponsibility will not be tolerated. Above all else, it must be remembered that the standards and morals that we set for ourselves and our peers will most likely be those morals that we will abide by for the rest of our lives, and pass on to our children. We must make the correct decisions, and stand by our decisions as mature and intelligent individuals. Ius est ars boni et aequi legal iustice is the art of the good and the fair. -Anon. This week's issue of Concordiensis will be the last for the term. ·. Oble'C'fi'OrrS'\ Ta: the Editor~ . '\ , . ... . . The unauthotized ··Btegtlln- Mitcfie:ll ' isane or tn• ueon- e~ftsts\t'can be crttiei!tli\f(Jr· _, 1l'!DtD IN 11 .;) I(]. ,,.. ~ ·~ rt ).., , t'i , ~oncor 0 .l -! k uttnx.t~ o· '4oft~ o 1 C l L 1J.:--· i'f4'1Y'cT.t.D'( .~ Editors-in-Chief Managing Edit()r Rachel I. Mandel, PaUl Grossman . Associate Managing Editor News Editors Features Editor- Arts & Culture Editor Associate Arts& Culture Editor· Campus Page Editors Julie Isgro Diane Pavacic Naomi Blank, Ed Albro· Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Sports Editors Jay McDermott, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Drew Hurley. Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz ·Photo Editor Mindy Broser Sports Photo Editor Steve Lerner Cartoonists David Neiblum. Lisa Snyder Staff Joey Beckerman, SaulBerley, Alan Binkow, ;•;;ll;i;;M,;I · 1 Norman Birnbach, Dan Booth, Thomas Ching, Timothy Emswiler, ,,,~ Steven Fallon, Regina Gough, Mike Hunt, Doug Landon, Barton Hill Levine, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Mark Mortenson, D.C. Owens, Peter Perrin, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric W. Ruben, Michael Sharp, David Silversmith. Cind:y J. Tenner, A.A. TerhlUle Jennifer Amler; Evelyn Gurdin E. Wesley Harris, III Jane Cavalier,Janet Guiliano, NormPflaster, Robert Tang, Linda Wallen CONCORDIENSIS ~ published every Thursday by the student . bOdy of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Pu'Qlications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 . Business Staff ~ Subscriptions Photo Staff Division Street, SiQn.ey, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in. 1 the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription' rate: 35 ~ents per copy, .$12 per year, delivered anywhere in the ·united .States. . CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS}, and utilizes the Conege News Bureau (CNB).

Pa~_e_8--------------------------------~0~0~N~O~O~R~D~l~E~N~S~l~S~N~o~v~e~m~b~e~r~1~9~,~1~98~1~------------------------------------ Editorials Letters We Should Govern Ourselves Behind closed doors, nine students that are the Conduct Committee meet to discuss the recom- mendations that they will malte to the Dean of Students concerning the actions of their peers. Their meetings are never announced over WRUC, and never appear in the General Nottices section of Concordiensis. Their opinions and decisions have a profound affect on the campus in general, and the students who attend school here. The purpose of having a Conduct Committee such as this is to allow the student a chance to be heard by a panel of peers. The Committee hears the charges and the \defense although it i:s not a legal entity, and makes a recommendation to the Dean of Students as to what action should be taken, if any. It is extremely important that the Conduct Com- mittee be allowed to do its job to the best of the Committee's ability. It cannot do this job without the support of the campus community. It is a hard but necessary job that is made more difficult by the reluctance of the students who may have witnessed, or been involved in a violation of the conduct code, to step forward and testify. This failure on the part of the students to speak out hinders the ability to make an educated and just recommendation. Certainly, if no recommendation is made due to a lack of interest or evidence, no measures can be taken to correct the situation or reprimand the offender. It is impossible for us to let an act, whether criminal or abusive, pass because we don't want to get involved, or the action was committed with \good\ intent. The students must be concerned enough about their own well-being, and the well-being of their peers, to speak up, and to stand up for their rights to attend college without fear of being harassed or abused. The Conduct Committee wants to, and was created to, give the students an opportunity to govern themselves; they cannot, however, do their job without the cooperation and support of the very people that they are trying to protect. Given this fact, and given the low profile of the Conduct Committee, we feel that it is important for the students to know when a case has been reviewed by the Committee, and what action has been recommended. In this way, the students will realize that something constructive can be done in such an instance, and that the offenders will not walk away free. As court cases are a matter of public record, the Conduct Committee's actions should also be public record. We understand that, especially at a college of this size, it is the individual's right to maintain his or her confidentiality. Nevertheless, it is still very im- portant for the campus to recognize that there is a channel open to them to pursue such matters, and that this body will operate in the most efficient, productive and responsible manner that it can. Once again, the only way that the student body will realize this is if the Conduct Committee allows recom- mendations to become part of the public record. When an issue affects the student body, it is the right of the student body to know the outcome. Only in this way can we govern ourselves, and understand that certain acts of aggression and irresponsibility will not be tolerated. Above all else, it must be remembered that the standards and morals that we set for ourselves and our peers will most likely be those morals that we will abide by for the rest of our lives, and pass on to our children. We must make the correct decisions, and stand by our decisions as mature and intelligent individuals. Ius est ars boni et aequi Legal iustice is the art of the good and the fair. -Anon. This week's issue of Concordiensis will be the last for the term. Professors Voice Parody Obiections To the Editor: The unauthorized Biege.n~ Mitchell issue of the \ConM cordlensis\ can be criticized for a number of qualities. However, we wish to devote our attention to two uerrors\ which seem particularly offensive to us. We thinlt that one reason for (}ut objection to the piece enM titled uchess Club MeetsH should be (}bvious. Put simply, we believe the article is destructive in tone and suggests a meanness of spirit which is inappropriate in a community such as Union. OUr second reason for ob- jecting to uChess Club Meetsu is that characterizations of individuals in public Pl\int can \take on lives af their own.\ When this happens there is created a potential for future attacks on the individuals who are vietimind by such cbaracteri2ations. It is the responsibility of all those who contribute t() publications. at Union to guard against such an outcome. , Sincerely, Gene Schneller, Chairman. Division of Social Sciences James Underwood, Chair· man. Department of Political Science .. ~ · Terry Weiner, Chairman, Deparfment of Sociology tady:, ·Albany,_. ~o:y .p1J .for .tl\at matter San Franci$co. My opinion is that he bad ~tter have an extremely good reason for being on campus at 2:30 in the morning. Also, my sub--problem number two does not imply that \aU residents are thieves and muggers.'} Rather. it bnpU.es- that probably aU. on...campus ~ttackers are (to use the above definition) townies. _ I would like to point out that Union College plays an im· portant .part in the success of Schenectady. True, it pays no tax:es~ but it also\ w<>nld deviatate Schenectady if it movet:L Merchants in the· ~rea would be upset. !Vf~r I point o~t that the General Electric Co.~ m an probability, came to Schenectady because Union · (and Charles Steinlneb) was here. Union is a foundation of Schenectady life. .. . . . .. · I> Lastly, I note tliat Web$tet's Collegiate Dietillnary ·includeS · three spellings of the ·worth townee, towny and townie. Sincerely, AlanBinkow Give Th'e'm . A Chance : ': ' . rest~t1lt1llftcis ouly f-air.~ it should, ia.fftct, be expected. But in totl~y!s ,~lay and .. age, when leaders in ~e highest echelons of society seem to ignore their responsibilities to account for their own injustices, Rich Bieg~n · and Jeff Mitchell 1 s actions ~orne as a refreshing change from what we have now~ unfortunately, mown to expect. \The damage is . d!:me,\ the point has been made, and the embartassment will remain for some time. There's nothing to be gained in carrying to· the limit whatever legal options might ex~t. To continue to press the issue, to attempt to publicly. ring from Misters Biegen and Mitchell their very last drllps of shame and humiliation in order simply to add to our amusement ·or to bolster our sense of selfM righteousness 1 wrongs them even more than they · have wronged others. bt's lay this issue' to · rest. Rich Biege:n ab.d Jeff Mitchell have a lot· of work to do w clean up the mess · they've made; give them a chance to get it done. StevenP. Lanza ,82 Humor Is Not A Crime To the Editors: . To the Editors: The recent publication of a We would like to comment on counterfeit Coneordhmsis the reaction of the editors to the represents a severe \fake paperu distributed on misjudgement on the part of its Monday, November 9th. This creatorst Mi$ters Biegen and incident revealed· an in ... Mitchell. They admit it, and the sensitivity of students to fellow PI ease whole couege community students which can only be ree'Og:nizes it. Last week~s called re:prehensible. Those Reevol uate editorial in the real ·eoneordy connected witn . tne con .. apPropriately puinted out that eordiensls- not only denounced p ri 0 r if j es ne1ther of the tw~ were aware of Jeff Mitcbell and Rich Biegen, . To . t·~... .. .,. edl'tr.r\' of c.,.,_ the s~tious~EtS~ ~t.,,. -tlu~k tlw¥·tr . .P~r~~¥.Juted t}Wrp. u... \ .. ......- mistake. Neithtlr of the twO .At . o ast was set up in c<J=n~:: 1 . . t in~:n<led· an}{ .dist'e ·· .'tlle . : · \· . ·. ··. dy, artJ1e'd \4th . · · .·· ter s m·iresponse .·•o studentsJt~thel · ·~··, · . Li , . wttn -ttutb,\ last week's editorial concerning administration. Yet neithe-r of bonestyt tradition and powet\ the publication of the pseudo- . the t;wo ·has ignored nis ~~ott · . y over the tw:u Q)ncol'<tiensis. I f~l that the reaponsillllity. t& malter~~nds· · stutl~tS<, .. ilould- pOSsibly. two students were unaware of and to try to_rigbt the w:rongs he Co$p(!te wit · that? the legal hnplications that their bas eommi~ed. Cl~arly$ sJl$. . There Sf#lniS oo be a real gap acttions gave arise to. However, ·r;:==========;:==========:! the idea behind these actions ms creative and: ·served as an. · ~or.ID '~ inspiration to the; stb.dent bOdy~ ~ . v !~:~~ ::~ ~es:.~rtso:~:: '~one or ~ \~tA rL )wt'tnd'it' ttl coWi:~hiusesmeish()wtlie ~ O.:.l~! ~ U 1J l.J administration· can . mate· such 0 ,.,.,.~ 0 :J~ ;~~t: ~t=:f ~ei;:! · ,~~~.J:.~~· positive resultfh w. hila th«1. · Ed\tors-in-Chief Rachel I. Mandel, Paul Grossman blatantly ignore soeial · Managing Editor Julie Isgro organizations ()D c~PllS h Associate Managing Editor Diane Pavacic persistently off~d al1d . . e News Editors Naomi Blank, Ed Albro the stui:Mnt b()dy, with special Features Editor Judi Lee Chervenak malice towardS women. I hope Arts & Culture Editor Bob Fox that the administration will · Associate Arts & Culture Editor · Roberta Rubinstein seriously re--evaluate · their • Campus Page Editors Maria Manfredonia P . dorities. . · Charis Richards ~!e~~~abr· iele Sports Editors Jay McDermott, Rob Norton o~.Wa .... ov Assistant Sports Editor Drew Hurley Clas&of!84 Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Re·spon's'e' to . ~~~~~~~~~Editor ~~~ ~~~:~ tT· • ' Cartoonists David Neiblum. Lisa Snyder 0Wrl te Staff Joey Beckennan, Saul Berley, Alan Binkow, C L ~ Norman Birnbach, Dan Booth, Thomas Ching, Timothy Emswiler · nOrge ' . StevenFallon,ReginaGough,MikeHunt,DougLandon' Barton Hill Levine, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr: To th~ Editors: Mark Mortenson, D.C. Owens, Peter Perrin, Brian Quint This letter is in response to Daniel Rosenfield, Eric W. Ruben, Michael Sharp' the letter bY ... the ''Union David Silversmith. Cind:yJ. Tenner, A.A. Terhun~ A:lttrtf!lW! and Ciijt Rendefitn · Business Staff Jennifer Amler ~Evelyn Gurdin '\la$t week. · . Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III · .•. \ l'a;polQ!Pe ft>tat~Y w' tlll~' Photo Staff Jane Cavalier,Janet Guiliano, · l Il:U1y have inadve · im\' Norm Pflaster, Robert Tang. Linda Wallen ·· E\~:nf: 1 j ~-J;e JliJ~eQ,Wi;~ ~;c~R8:~s~ll~g~u~:~~~i=v~~~,~:!~!~ta%r, ~e!t~~~~ ·.. . ·.tf .• ·.tiw.:.~r.od·w··. ·::1.l:.t;IA.WW,i ·.. 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 · fised on . campus, iri Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (807) 563-7151. Entered in • . c .;ti .,not of the 1 the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription :'tfwlio·is (in '.' 0 a~~~J~s~f::. per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the . !Jl~ 11 • in the context Jlf·.tn.Y. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), · ·• · Cie, it do~ not matter 1f and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). ~ltcli perttl)n .iS.. from Behen,ee-1 \'.. . ···•····· ······•············ ............... • ······ ····· .. . be~ 'the: itw in catl thO! por bad it , ma Cor the evE see tbe it; of' I cor ~ ·an -~~ neJ en1 COl pe C.tl ue Y( . be fi( co ra d~ gt p( th 1 1 , ,, .j ' 1

) t [ 1 l ~ 1 ' ~ r r r n I n. n e I, OONOORDIENS1S~ November. 1:9, 1981 Page 9 Letters £dltotials Fro,m Where I Stand: U.S. Superiority By ALAN.BINKOW The United States is the most powerful nation in the world. I still believe that. I say •:still\ because, in the last twenty years the goverrunent of the United States has given us good reason to stop believing that. The United. States has managed, somehow, to fall behind. Now wait a minute, you say. Militarily, the U.$. is stronger than it ever was. Politically, it is still the strongest. Economically, we are still THE country. All that is meaningless. Power is not measured solely in terms of military, political and economic strength. Power is also measured in terms of world reactio to that .strength. Mil:itary might means nothing when the world knows that it will never be used, even in defense of our allies. Political power is useless when we. back down at the slightest opposition. Economic strength does us no good when it is never exercised. Now wait, you say again. Since when don't we use our strength? I say, since when have we? In the 1950's, the United States was involved' in the in- dependence negotiations for a European colony. It involved a partition plan, and a demilitarized country. We refused to sign the agreement, because we felt that others would violate the military provisions and we would feel bound by them. When the violations (and war) did come, and our ally called on this treaty with us, we honored it. As near as I can determine,. this was the last time we honored such a treaty. This was the right thing to do, you say. We said we would help, and we did. The name of the country in question was Vietnam. Are then, all of our military treaties with our allies a sham? Worthless? Will we countinue to let our allies fall, until there are none left? Can we stand alone? But wait, you say. There is still our political power, the power of diplomacy. Surely that is still intact. Is it? In the recent AWACS deal, the American government decided that they did not want to sell the AWACS' to the Saudis without removing some systems, which they considered top secret. They continue to debate the question, but that was pretty much a given. The Saudis announced that they would not accept delivery of the incomplete AWACS. And, ,without any debate, the A WACS were ''made whole again.\ Is this exerting political in- fluence? How about when we asked all of our allies to em- bargo the Soviet Union, after the Afghanistan crisis? How many of them responded to our \political pressure\ then? But wait, you say. What about economics? America is still the world's breadbasket! Bread, however, is no longer the world's money. Oil is. Not that it matters, because all we seem to be doing with our bread is selling it to the Russians. The Russians love this, since they can concentrate on their military and space programs rather than concentrating on the more basic task of feeding their people. We are feeding them. Aren't we working against ourselves? Even economically? Why did I :write this article? Well, 1 say my learned collegue, Dave Silversmith, saying in his article last week that the U.S.A. seems more warmongerish than the U.S.S.R. since the U.S.S.R. is calling for arms reduction talks. But once upon a time there were the SALT talks. And the SALT talks were an interesting event. As Sen. Henry Jackson (D-Wash) described them; The Soviets would make a demand, call it A. The Americans would respond with B. The Soviets repeat A. The Americans compromise with C. The Soviets repeat A. The Americans compromise again with D. The Soviets repeat A. The Americans compromise yet again withE, and complain that the Soviets aren't cooperating. The Soviets \then make an ex- tremely minor concession, call it F. The ·Americans are so happy that they irrunediately agree to F. And the whole process starts over. Negotiating with the Russians tends to be a fruitless effort. I can't say I support Ronald Reagan in much; I really can't . say I support him in anything :not even in foreign policy. But I can say that he is making an effort to hold onto the United States power. I can support this, even if I don't suppert the methodology he uses. I want to continue to believe: The United States is the most powerful nation in the world. A.I. Campaigns l By SONIA ROSEN Today, the Union College branch of the Capital District AIUSA is initiating a postcard campaign regarding a Soviet prisoner of conscience, Gen- nady Kuznetzov. Kuznetsov, a .young law student at Kaliningrad University, was arrested by Soviet officials in 1966, sent to one of a dozen \special\ hospitals otherwise known as psych-prisons and systematically forgotten. Two years ago, Amnesty Inter· national, a London based human rights organizationwith a chapter in the Capital District and a support group here on campus, was informed as to the plight of this seemingly har- mless Soviet citizen. To date, Kuznetsov has been imprisoned for sixteen years, the majority of his young adult life. Sources in the Soviet Union verify that he was charged under Article 70 of the Soviet Criminal Code for \anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda\ the most popular statute used against persons deemed as ''socially dangerollS.\ Further investigation found that the Soviet system judged him to be mentally ill and was sub- sequently ordered by the court to compulsory confinement in a psychiatric hospital for an indefinite period. The nature of Kuznetsov's offense is unknown. Nearly all efforts to contact him or persons in- formed as to his whereabouts and mental-physical condition have been fruitless. It seems, however, that since Amnesty launched its campaign, the Soviet government has become increasingly uncomfortable and evasive concerning this matter. According to a recent article in the journal \Problems for Communism\ approximately 1000 to 2000 persons \are being forcibly treated in institutions for the criminally insane to 'cure•· them of their urges for free expression.\ This manner of political repression througb psychiatric imprisonment is considered a moral and legal outrage by modern standards. In order to call attention to this inhumane practice of evicting any person who represents a deviation from the approved norms of civic behavior from public life, Amnesty Inter- national adopts prisoners of conscience and pressures . t~e Soviet goverr.ment for their immediate release. Gennady Kuznetsov was adopted so that he would not become a forgotten or lost prisoner, as had been the case for numerous years. Today's postcard campaign is a direct effort appealing to the Soviet Union for confirmation or correction of recent reports indicating there is a possibility he will be released, and in- formation as to Kuznetsov' s whereabouts. The importance of letter writing must not be taken for granted, particularly at such a crucial time for this prisoner. It is our responsibility that he not be forgotten and that hopefully, heightened pressure and purlicity will yield a joyful outcome. Members of Amnest International will be in Car- negie Hall all day, handing out information and postcards. A minute or two taken out of your day to find out more about Gennady Kuznetsov, political imprisonment in the USSR, and Amnesty International would fill you with interesting and pertinent information. Your signature on a postcard might give Kuznetsov his freedom. The editors would like to thank all who contributed to the paper this term and look forward to serving the campus in the future.

1. i between wb~t was intel1d~tf 1>1 the editinntnnd·tltewayin'Wbich it was interpreted. At this point in the ·term, some type of catharsis is necessary. For those of us who had the op-- portunity to read the paper 1 it bad that elect.; unfortunat~ly, it was confiscated before, the majority got a chance to read it. Conoordy ~ which purports to be the voice of this campus, did n()t even allow its student oody to see the paper. The Conetudy is the voice of those who write f!l'r it; rather than a representation of campus opinion. · It seems that the real p~int of controversy: .is the use of the Cooeordl.ensis Masthead. We are not unaware ~f the legal questions this has raised. Howevet\t this does not nece.asitate calling upon the entire student population to condemn Rich and Jeff. Some people have forgotten that The C.nncard;y is a siu.dent ;~Tfl:~s.and not The New A formal) public apology has been offered; that should suf· fice. We urge the staff of Con- cordy to realize the possible ramifications of their vin·, dictivenetls~ What.).';eff and Rich are finally guilty of is attempting tl) make poeple smile. We- never knew that was a crime. Debbie Moses Jamie Tannenbaum ~ussian Students· OONOORDIENSIS, November 19, 1981 Page 9 . ·;;.., i .... ~ .... ·:··:··,; r.n' be instructor. · . action would make a four year program possible. Any comments may be directed to Box 1176., Carnegie Hall. . Editor's note: This letter submitted with a list uf elgl~teed names at the botto01. Oue to restrietiou of space, and difficulty in ~iphering somld of the siguaturest, we uable to print theJr namett. SDT Upset At Theft The Sisters of Sigma delta Tau would like to bring to the attention of the student body an unfortunate event tbat took place on Friday, November 13, the night before our all campus party. Upon returning to the Chapter House on Friday night we found that one of ten kegs that was to be used the following night, had been stolen. We found it absolutely absurd that since our parties are open t& the entire campus; and beer is free, that anyone would be obnoxious. enough to walk into our house ~walk away with a keg. This ts not the first time that something has been stolen from a sorority or fraternity house eampus. I guess we are lucky that it wasn't something of greater value like a T.V. or composite. However, since we treated youto a keg nf beer, the least you can &:r is bring back the empty keg so we can obtain our deposit. And, by the way> tllanks.,·for .Jeaving ·~ .cold plate. A ,~esponse to. the Attack Letter$ Editorials From Where I.Stand: U.S. Superiority By ALAN BINKOW The United States is the most powerful nation in the world. I still believe that. I say ·~still\ because, in the last twenty years the government of the United States has given us good reason to stop believing that. The United States has managed, somehow, to fall behind. Now wait a minute, you say. Militarily, the U.S. is stronger than it ever was. Politically, it is still the strongest. Economically, we are still THE country. All that is meaningless. Power is not measured solely in terms of military, political and economic strength. Power is also measured in terms of world reactio to that strength. Military might means nothing when the world knows that it will never be used, even in defense of our allies. Political power is useless when we back down at the slightest opposition. Economic strength does us no good when it is never exercised. Now wait, you say again. Since when don't we use our strength? I say, since when have we? In the 1950's, the United States was involved in the in- dependence negotiations for a European colony. It involved a partition plan, and a demilitarized country. We refused to sign the agreement, because we felt that others would violate the military provisions and we would feel bound by them. When the violations (and war) did come, and our ally called on this treaty with us, we honored it. As near as I can determine, this was the last time we honored such a treaty. This was the right thing to do, you say. We said we would help, and we did. The name of the country in question was Vietnam. Are then, aU of our military treaties with our allies a sham? Worthless? WiU we countinue to let our allies fall, until there are none left? Can we stand alone? But wait, you say. There is still our political power, the power of diplomacy. Surely that is stHl intact. Is it? In the recent AWACS deal, the American government decided that they did not want to sell the A WACS to the Saudis without removing some systems, which they considered top secret. They continue to debate the question, but that was pretty much a given. The Saudis announced that they would not accept delivery of the incomplete AWACS. And, without any debate, the AWACS were ''made whole again.\ Is this exerting political in- fluence? How about when we asked all of our allies to em- bargo the Soviet Union, after the Afghanistan crisis? How many of them responded to our \political pressure\ then'? But wait, you say. What about economics? America is still the world's breadbasket! Bread, however, is no longer the world's money. Oil is. Not that it matters, because all we seem to be doing with our bread is selling it to the Russians. The Russians love this, since they can concentrate on their military and space programs rather than concentrating on the more basic task of feeding their people. We are feeding them. Aren't we working against ourselves? Even economically? Why did I write this article? Well, I say my learned collegue, Dave Silversmith, saying in his article last week that the U.S.A. seems more warmongerish than the U.S.S.R. since the U.S.S.R. is calling for arms reduction talks. But once upon a time there were the SALT ta,lks. And the SALT talks were an interesting event. As Sen. Henry Jackson (D-Wash) described them; The Soviets would make a demand, call it A. The Americans would respond with B. The Soviets repeat A. The Americans compromise with C. The Soviets repeat A. The Americans compromise again with D. The Soviets repeat A. The Americans compromise yet again with E, and complain that the Soviets aren't cooperating. The Soviets then make an ex- tremely minor concession, call it F. The Americans are so happy that they immediately agree to F. And the whole process starts over. Negotiating with the Russians tends to be a fruitless effort. I can't say I support Ronald Reagan in much; I really can't .say I support him in anything not even in foreign policy. But I can say that he is making an effort to hold onto the United States power. I can support this, even if I don't support the methodology he uses. I want to continue to believe: The United States is the most powerful nation in the world. A.I. Campaigns By SONIA ROSEN Today, the Union College branch of the Capital District AIUSA is initiating a postcard campaign regarding a Soviet prisoner of conscience, Gen- nady Kuznetzov. Kuznetsov, a young law student at Kaliningrad University, was arrested by Soviet officials in 1966, sent to one of a dozen \special\ hospitals otherwise known as psych-prisons and systematically forgotten. Two years ago, Amnesty Inter- national, a London based human rights organizationwith a chapter in the Capital District and a support group here on campus, was informed as to the plight of this seemingly har- mless Soviet citizen. To date, Kuznetsov has been imprisoned for sixteen years, the majority of his young adult life. Sources in the Soviet Union verify that he was charged under Article 70 of the Soviet Criminal Code for \anti-soviet agitation and propaganda\ the most popular statute used against persons deemed as \socially dangerous.\ Further investigation found that the Soviet system judged him to be mentally ill and was sub- sequently ordered by the court to compulsory confinement in a psychiatric hospital for an indefinite period. The nature of Kuznetsov's offense is unknown. Nearly all efforts to contact him or persons in- formed as to his whereabouts and mental-physical condition have been fruitless. It seems, however, that since Amnesty launched its campaign, the Soviet government has become increasingly uncomfortable and evasive concerning this matter. According to a recent article in the journal \Problems for Communism\ approximately 1000 to 2000 persons \are being forcibly treated in institutions for the criminally insane to 'cure' them of their urges for free expression.\ This manner of political repression through psychiatric imprisonment is considered a moral and legal outrage by modern standards. In order to call attention to this inhumane practice of evicting any person who represents a deviation from the approved norms of civic behavior from public life, Amnesty Inter- national adopts prisoners of conscience and pressures the Soviet goverr..ment for the1r immediate release. Gennady Kuznetsov was adopted so that he would not become a forgotten or lost prisoner, as had been the case for numerous years. Today's postcard campaign is a direct effort appealing to the Soviet Union for confirmation or correction of recent reports indicating there is a possibility he will be released, and in- formation as to Kuznetsov's whereabouts. The importance of letter writing must not be taken for granted, particularly at such a crucial time for this prisoner. It is our responsibility that he not be forgotten and that hopefully, heightened pressure and purlicity will yield a joyful outcome. Members of Amnest International will be in Car- negie Hall all day, handing out information and postcards. A minute or two taken out of your day to find out more about Gennady Kuznetsov, political imprisonment in the USSR, and Amnesty International would fill you with interesting and pertinent information. Your signature on a postcard might give Kuznetsov his freedom. The editors would like to thank all who contributed to the paper this term and look forward to serving the campus in the future.

VONOORDIENSIS, November 19, 1981 Freshman Values: Pragmatic Majors (CPS)- Is money everything? Is socia·l idealism dead? Well, it may be, at least in this year's college freshman class. A newly-released .study by - the National Center for Education Statistics indicates clear evidence that today's incoming college fresltmen are more economically pragmatic and less socially idealistic in their career planning than their predecessors of a decade ago. \There's no question students have become more con- servative,\ says Dr. SamuelS. Peng, chief architect of the study, which observed the educational and occupational plans and activities of 1980 high school seniors and sophomores. Among other things, the study revealed a dramatic shift of preference in expected college majors. ·In a similar 1972 sur- vey, social science (including such fields as history, sociology, psychology and social work) was the most popular option, chosen by nearly a fifth of all college-bound seniors. In the 1980 study, business ranked in a class by itself, the choice of 22 percent of future collegians. Engineering came !n second at 10 percent while social science preferences was more than sliced in half, to a mere eight percent. \Students are quite aware of what fields are ~economically 'safe' these days/'' says Peng, \and are eager :to take ad- vantage of the fact. \ Just as revealing, Peng notes, is the study's tabulation of student ''life goals\. While most goal preferences remain similar between tile 1972 and 1980 surveys (success, a happy family life, good friends, etc.) \Having lots of money\ jwnped a full 12 percent in import\ \Working to correct .social and economic inequalities\ dropped a corresponding 14 percent. \It's very clear-, \ Peng asserts, \that today-'s incoming collegian is mucll more in- terested in making as much money as he can,. md that this may indeed be the prime purpose in getting an education. Times have change<! decidedly from a decade ago.\ Peng's study team plans to follow the same group of students through its freshman year to see \How much the college experience may change their attitudes and themselves. - This has never been attempted before. It should prove fascinating, to say the least.\ ~------------------------------------ University Recommends Competency Tests (CPS)- More college students soon might have to pass competency tests before they get their degrees. Just as the controversia·l proficiency tests have spread on the high school level~a movement largely fueled by parental and college admissions officers' complaints that high school grads aren't weH educated'-'-they now appear to be making inroads on the college level as well. Most recently, a Ugiversity.of Oklahoma faculty committee recommended tyvo weeks ago that undergraduates pass a \comprehensive\ final exam in their major before being allowed to graduate. Individual departments within the university-not semi· independent testing companies like Educational Testing Ser- vice-would write and ad- minister the tests. The Oklahoma committee also urged a \strict graaing policy\ to combat a feared slip in the university's academic standards. \There's been a general feeling that our undergrads are just not adequately educated in a liberal arts sense,\ says Faculty Senate Chairman Gary Thompson. ''Many students are coming (to Oklahoma) with such low competency levels we have been forced to simply ease them tijrough the system. As a result, our academic standards have visibly declined.'' There remains some con- fusion about how many other schools require such tests. The University of Colorado last year decided to allow~but not require-individual_ depart• ments to give them. But Arts and Sciences Dean Everly Fleischer notes,. \I don't think (the option) has 'been exercised at all. It would take a huge amount of work to formulate and grade such exams.\ Harvard and Yale have required comprehensive exams of graduating seniors since the 1920s, although Yale now allO\:VS ''approved substitutes\ Uke senior theses or field work. Administrators at both schools were unsure if any other colleges required · competency tests, however. * ' * * The Oklahoma proposal seems to · have · raised sur- prisingly few student protests. Student newspaper ['leporter Gary Smith observes that \a lot of students seem to favor it because it'll add m()re prestige to. the university. Ill• years to come,. you can . say 'l went to Oklanoma' and .be :proud.\ Dr. Robert Calfee ()f Stan- ford's School of Education of- fers a dimmer view. \It makes even. less sense than d()es high school testing.\ . Any such exam wo11ld either be \much too little :<Jr much too late,\ Calfee asserts. '\You'd· be imposing a standard that's impossible to use fairly. As a yardstick for competency, it's just plain dumb.\ *: *' * .* PJ£Z * * « * * * * AJBDUBf* *' * .. * * .,. * *- \* ~UIWO:J * * * . * >It * * * .- * * * SJ *' '* . *- * * * I * * * * fBAJUJ~~ * Most Wanted Student • • • * * * * * J3lU!A\ * Continued from page 7 He estimates there are 1600 to 2000 vacant engineering positions on American college campuses. Cal Tech's engineering enrollment has doubled in the last seven years, but Dean Roy Gould is finding it harder and harder to get instructors to teach them. \I suspect it's going to get harder as we have a smaller and smaller pool to draw from.\ HI'rn really concerned about our future,\ confides Texas A&M's Page. \Our very best students are going into in- dustry, students that ought to continue their education for the benefit of the country and of the student. There's an expression going around that says 'Industry is just eating its own feedcorn,' and I hope something is done to control the situation.\ Many schools of engineering are now self-consciously stressing the values of post- graduate education, and cooking up incentives to keep their students in school. others, like Purdue, have raised admissions standards and virtually wallecl out out-of- state students. Andcollegesare.appealingto industries that are hiring away teaching and grad school talent. In response, Exx()n recently announced a $15 million program to encoura.ge 1 students to continue in school, and discourage professors from defecting to the private sector. Initial results of ,sl!ch efforts, judging from the pl~tns of Texas A&M's top engineering students, are mix:ed. Beall's vision is firmly fixed on the job market.li'ollowing in his father's technical footsteps because \it seemed like the natural thing to do,\ the 22- year-old Beall still isn't sure what has hit him. ''When I first went into it, I h!ld no idea engineering would lle as big as it is now.\ Now that he knows, he's not long for the mCldest trailer- house he shares with his wife near the A&M campus. '.Vo Sculpture Technique~ ~ ,. The Department of the Arts wi II be giving a ~~ series of· practical demonstrations in sculptural i~ techniques: how to work with woocl, clay, ~ plaster, stone and metal. Demonstrations will be given by sculptor Alex Markhoff, and deal with tool sharpening, joint design, roughing out, and carving. They will be held on Thursdays, from 3- 5 p.m. in the sculpture studio, Arts Suilding, room 115. All are invited to attend. November 19-Piaster [ December 3- Plaster II ,. Beall, \lt's just a matter of where you want to go, and what you want.\ Classmate Joseph Ott, whom Dean Page identified as one pf A&M,'s other top engineering students, wants something else. He plans to resist industry's temptations for another year. \My wife and I talked it over,\ Ott says. \We figure that once we get out and get used to the big money, it will.be even harder to go back to school. So we're going to suffer through another year so that I can in~ crease my earning potential, and extend my engineering life.\ Leadership Training Workshop Who should attend: . +anY.one involved in group leadership +Committee chairpersons or members +Fraternity-Sorority officers +Dorm Council members +Club officers Thursday, Nov. 19th 4th Floor Carnegie 7:30-9:00 Puzzle Answer * * * *- * * * * • ••••• •&?\• ••• ••••• OCTOBER •••••••• : (Campus Paperback Bestsel~ :. • 1. 101. Uses for a Dead Cat, by Simon Bond. (Clarkson N. 8 e Potter, $2.95) Cartoon humor. 8 · e 2. The Simple Solution to Rubik's CUbe, by James G. Nourse. e • (Bantam, $1.95) Puzzle solver. • 8 3. The Key to Rebecca, by Ken Follett. (NAL/Signet. $3.95) 8 • World War II spy intrigue: fiction. e. • 4. Firestarter, by Stephen King. (NAL/Signet, $3.95) •. Terror becomes child's play: fiction. • 5. The Official Preppy Handbook, edited by Lisa Birnbach. • 8 (Workman, $4.95) A guide to good taste: humor. •. • 6. What Color is Your Parachute? by Richard Nelson Bolles. • e (Ten Speed Press, $6.95) Career and jcb guide. e e 7. The Clan of the Cave Bear, by Jea~ M. Auel. (Bantam, • e $3.75) Cro-Magnon/N.eanderthal saga. e • B. Mastering Rubik's Cube, by Don Taylor. (Holt, $1.95) e Puzzle solver. • • • 9. Side Effects, by Woody Allen. (Ballantine, $2. 75) • Short stories by the master of humor. 8 10. The Ring, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $3.50) 8 • Sweeping romantic saga. • • Compl!etJ by The ChromclffOf Hlghor Ed;~ltliPn lromlnformaUOII;;ppllod bY coll11ge storesthroughoutthecourttty C_ctober 15, '1961 e ••••••••••••••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••••• : ( New G Recommended . ) : •• Entropy. by Jeremy .Rifkin with Ted Howard. (Bantam, $3.95) •• A new world view. • Peter the Great, by Robert K. Massie. (Ballantine, $9. 95) • e His life and world. 1 • VIsion Quest, by Terry Davis. (Bantam, $2.50) • • Growing into manhOod: fiction. I • • • ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN PIJBL!SHERSJNATIONAL ASSOCIATION.oF COLLEGE srones I ••••••••••••.• , ........ . -

t I I t , • I • I ' I tl ·- I. r •t it e 0 0 I- E- ~s h if 0 e s a s OONCORDIENSIS, November 19, 1981 Page 11 GRADUATI:NG SOON? THIS SATURDAY 5-9 Discover a ;New World of Opportunity At Stone & Webslerl . Come to ·Our ------- ... at The Dutch Hollow Pub CAREER OPEN HOUSE Saturday, Nc;»vember 21, 1981, 9:00AM - 3:00PM Stone.& Webster Headquarters 8 cut Pizza ·and Pitch.er of Sod·a 245 Summer Street,. Boston, Adjacent to South Station WE ARE LOB KING fOR DEGREED ENGINEERS IA..S:. B.S., M.S.. PhD's.) No Experience Necessary. B.S. M.S. PhD's Discipline: • M.echa\1cal • Nuclear, Chemrcal • Electr.,cal•o c,v,I/Structural • MathematiCS • Phys1cs • Health Phy.s1cs. Thermal HydrauliCS Division:~ Power • Nuclear Technology •· Start·Up & Te>l• Oper~trons Serv1ces • Electncal, • Control Systems • Eng1neenng MechaniCS·• Structural. Proce>s Technology • EngtAeerrng Assurance • Quality Assurance, LICens,ng .• Hydraulic • Freid ConstructiOn · (for A;S. degree ll()lders:) l;)iscipline: ·• Mechanical. 'E·Iectncal. CiviiJS.tructural Division: • Power • Op~rat1ons Serv1ces. Er-1g1neenng ·Me-cha n1cs , E tectncal • Structural• Quality Assurance · - Vour career will really take off at Stone & Webster. We are•re111owned leaders in 'the design. engineering and construction of state.of·the·art power generation and process inclustl')! facilities. J~in us in some of the .most challimgjng proj~cts underway to~ay· rn the power Industry, · Be our guest, •iew our facililies and meet iAformaUy Vjith our managers. Don't forg.et. to bring a copy of your rt,~suiT)e and/or transcript. If convenient, call Miss Wlll1ams at (617) 973·0994 to let us know if you willat1end.lf you are t~nabte to attend. our d()Ors are always open-senc:!'your-resume to JBhnHamlet, Personnel Department. · ~ STONE & WEBSTER or Beer $5.00 COKE SPECIAL Pitcher of Soda for $4.50 and Keep the Pitcher - ~ENGINEERING CORPORATION Matching Glasses - 75c w« iltrif 7 r i-~ Keep an · ~ye on what's happening Read Concordy GUARANTEED FLIGHT TRAINING! 'Graduates or College Students! No On Campus Requirements! Paid Training During Summer! Tough Physical Training! Take Up Th.e Challenge For more information contact the officer selection team at (518) 472-3640 or at the following address: Officer Selection Station-USMC 445 Br.oadway, PO B.ldg ., Rm. 514 Albany, New York 12207 Something Personal To Say? Send in a typed personal by 7:00 Tuesday and see it in print! BE IN THE FOREFRONT OF TODAY'S TECHNOLOGY AS A SCIENTIFIC-ENGINEERING OFFICER Our scientific-engineering officers are planning and designing tomorrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeingJheir ideas and concepts materialize. They have the finest, state-of-the-art equipment to test their theories. The working envi· ronment is conducive to research. And Air Force ex- perience is second to none. You can be part of this dynamic team if you have a scientific or engineering degree. Your first step will be Officer Training School. H~lp us shape our future as we help you start yours. B.e a scientific-engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at 472-4484 Ask for SSgt Mike Bobrinitz A great way of life.

Page 12 Sean the Food Czar-How aboqt a Hawaiian Punch f« dinner? OONOORDIENSIS, November 19, 1981 stuff'~ . · some more jn:kes! ·. ·.· . . . tbov8t!\\\we ShoUld celebrate n1ore · often;.. you have alot-to .catctrtap for· ('3-4 years)~ Bird'·· · - · · • Ices ..... ···- .,. ;\ RMS-ThankB for., all the Bio. . tuturlng •. Got a QltQttthe, exam. W.~ ttY: ~{lt 1M ~Pam , .... T Bfo' TuE Alp disc oth ElE StU I Bio rUI1 Me (SO GlE (JI bei stu La1 clu I Kr tin cal , m~ Ho no· Co Ar p~ A( hi:

Page 12 OONCORDIENSIS, November 19, 1981 • Ices we do mean ALL) the baking · · To our «lil $t~rDelt p1M~esl·'' • · · you•ve done. I£ not for YllV, We love you tot)! · ___________ ......,.there'd be no one else Sue: Happy to hear that you'll soon run out of Tang. Is kimu-sabe caw or what? Happy Birthday Sue! (I realiZe this is a little premature, but this is the last issue, so if's fl(}W or never.) Love, Charis What •s wrog with the Kingston radio . statiorts, anyway!? Sean the Food Czar-How aboq~ a Hawaiian Punch fer dinner? Drew- You~re welwme. Cory- You look real cool with Jlllllr shirt tails han out. (·1 1mow it's not much it\s the best l could do on the spur of tile moment.) 'I'o the Monday Morning Quarterback--Who reads Newsweek and the New York Times anyway? {A little late, but better late than never!) I better get a post card fr()m Wisconsin! ! t Unfucking believable!! Congratulatio:ns pal!! Marc-rm sorry, bnt I'm not an airhead. Alrreeet? B()zo-You~re being· fired as my friend if yo1:1 don't make at least one· appearance a week at 20 Utlion Ave. next term! I miss you Asshole. Richards, Linder and BaU1lJ. .. we~re there!! (What an Arl team!!) ... Dan-I'm highly insulted that you get mc.re utility out of sleeping than vl$iting Frank with us. I think you sbould reexamine your indifference curves. Freddie-hope you had sweet dreams . . . ! Love. Amy Peg, GG, Buds-you have to dig to fmd the good parts, and then lick slowly. Ne:&t time it's brownie nut, ugh! love, Ames XQtxo.xo (paraphrase of Hmel). Thanks. All of us at the K.K. Music man: Myloveforyou is so very true. Bl<1ssom · Tudiet Phone Call!-Bl0$$&m· C.L.: It's vanilla todayt· ... Blossom H J. Bond: \The foot-biDs were great fun! lt'll be a super sP\..ason for sure-skiing too! (sorry it's late-I tried last W$ek) R.K:. Art-Last week was exce'llentl t.ers do it apia soon. For another JXJtUe Of that ''bubbly · stuff'' I'll tell you some mare jokes! Seriously though-we shGnld celebrate more often.:.. you have alot til catch up for (3-4 years). Bird · Daniel-rm not confused anym..,.re. Can we still just tie friends? TB HyJa .. ~Wby c.lon~t you oxygenate themt?~t It's almost over ki~I'm really glad we got to know each other.· I euttldn't have made it · without you-or your pills! Thanks-again. Lovet Robin . Seumt Ibp.ve to look fora new Dear Racb: g(lne to ~--------------~ It just won~t be the same. fWON TH,E EAGLEliEAD! Thanks for everything, and I Wildman. mean it. ---------- L()ve, Paul.· · ·· r~ ~ sle~ ~~~~~ooirit~~ ' ·. an the st= was worth it. Have a terrific Thanksgiving and say ubiu to your upuppy'; for me. Love, Your Roomie Dear O.R.G.~ (alias 01' Rim. Gang) ···· . ·· · TJ,lanks for the personal and for :making my (ttttn'* one t(l remember. Sheryl RMS-Thanks for an the Bio. tutoring. Got a 1m on the exam. \Vanna try for 100& -Pam .. Susan1you knowtbe F always .. · stands for 'cfavorite.H , E~aJ,. 9!l.t.·. A.u. drey, Sharon, n. ~TER LOVE, OH . l ' Duug-If f9U drink a l9t of b~t, you drink ALOT .• ~tber spqnge · · .... . ..... :· ... ··.· ··. ..... . N9bpdy expeets ttt~ S,~b . InqJtisition • . • , '··\' Af}-f'm gonna miss you! i Have: you· changed your· mind · · again? P.L. . . - ·····! . .'\:'-· ... Maria---Happy Love, Peglet · G, H, & S...Maybe we shO'Qld · have gotten ·Rocky ltoad!! L \ Trisb;· Are Japanese? cement ... ! doo't care if little sister d~es •.• ne~gliter do you •. yqu turning . case elOsedt ·· · •~ · ., MB-Howmng does it take to Fred G.-yes, it is true, UC is go from a CPIT to a CP& an you· said it w~H;C: AnifS Morris, Is the president really. YQW' father? Joan-co~grats and good ludt tnmorrowH >Peg · · job •. Any. . S.uggestion:(!.Youpve . A.J. a~d Briant ru have one been a great boss. F'ilrt small peperoni pizza pl~ase. Marta and! })am.:.. am, l sJJUfan . . · · · · · SGlT or have J mov~edup m the Pres of DB of UC~ I think it's hysterical. Who cares about r~putations? G did save you from the crowbar man. Another DB ofUC C.L. We'll just have to murder B.S.,J.B. is better anyway. You LLB • ...C- CONGRATULATIONS NEW M.B.'S!! WE'RE PSYCHED TO BA VE YOU!.! -The-Pledges and Sisters of Sigma Delta Tau- G.H.A.- You've been a real sweetie. Thanks for making tbis term fabulousi-Nait'obe Congrats Delta Gannna~1981 . Intramural Vollefball Champi0r16-0H YEAH!!! Love, Alan · Elissa, RATS! No you can't bring one home for a ~t. · Duck, No more weakies please! Thea, · Did the Spring catalogue <!ome out yet? Danny' and Joe, YOU THROATS!!! Kathee and Lynn~ Herets one for you this time. Want to rip some tickets? · Hey stubborn, for what its world& G.G., · worth, I'll always love ya.-L.L. ------------·\ Dear Rail-one of these days we wil1 settle d0wn and celebrate our tenth, ev~» if it is somewhere around our'l1th or 12th. Love, ~}V~t Che'6ks Dear Paul-I'tn sorry that I'm not working with you. as eo-6({. anymore. rn really miss tbe time spent with you because of the rag. Everybody thinks we only talk about t~ep_a[!er~boyj would they be surpriaeil. L>vet Rachel Dear steven-1'--m lo()king forward to spending more time with you .next ~rm...if we ~st that long. 'fry and get .a tadio aro on · an,y other night :aey you-How about it? Do Anrf,jretto e.,nd tirt!!l tubes go togetb$'? M1il · P-Are )(ott Litilted? G. ·- /! ~ BS , ... Thanks. You;re the best sis! Have a great va~ation with TTM. I.S GN, Are we gq~g fl() get a room together? 'Then ,;you wouldn't have to ft()m-e up at 7:00. CS w~i, The body~o-b6dy that yon want to be yours. should be .thrown in the garage.-c Buck()..wev~rytbing is copacetic, and we are real people (the word it> human). ux want a lover and I want mme friends, and I wantto live in the se~::s ~~c:nwtt;!e~r: sun , • . J} Lovtl, me · · Tuesday su I can hang around and be a disc jockey groupie. r ean help you spin ~tn\~~~· . -'lob ana ilke; 11eth sSicrte say\Jlellot'' ·· \'·· ·· ···''' ,. · - · .,. · ·· ·!:~·. ·' .... :::~~·:):;{.;~(.:f•. '-,;u• ,,:, ,, :·· ,,·,;.;.:,:. ,,;.,:;: .,,;-! ''''~ •:. ,,, .~, .. .,.., ..... . . - , - ''.i ,, ·; . • , • ·v .' ;'::, :-, , .:a~,J!:tn.Qne up <()n·,Y9;~~nrs,· Rynus-;J o Mama s the .next sbower&t tprOmlse not esctilatorr.- '' · ' '·. · ta·· ~mne 'in''Wfa'fiiil a· maSk!! sU!aia-Wa nau ~netta · ·· · · '····· love, a ¢q!Ple -~~ ~~~ers .. . ,;..,,,·.-.-:· ... -,,,:,::·:.::: ' ·::-:-•; ...... :-:..:-· .... -~ .-:;)')\' -::-. ,Vane~Miielt,Ukes\lirls·who llve. Jn., Ne-w :v~ndt b~tter • . · .. · n .··· . . ... · anyt{ay.. ,. · .. -MallkM.~~ppy; ,l~Jbb~e, a · friend; . ·. · ·· . . -.:. -,,., :;: •. \\ :. -: .. i\it . . . ' _:_~ ... -:.:·-, ·t. ,j\ ....... ' .... '· ...... : STOP EATING 100~000 B~ Tt Biol1 Tue~ Alp~ disc othE Ele1 stud Biol rum Me~ (SO( Gle1 (Jr beil stuc Lan clu< L' Kr< tim call VI rna Hot nov T Col Art Pal Acl his be Tu Stc ar de r

y .. PtM; - OONOORDIENSIS, November 19, 1981 Page 13 Ge·neral Nottices There will be a meeting for all Biology majors and minors on Tuesday, Dec. 1 at 4:30 in the Alps. Prof. Lambert will discuss winter term courses and other important 1 business. Elections will be held for student representatives to the Biology Department. .Students runnihgforeach class are: Tom Megerian (FR), Lisa Roller (soph), Steve SisSler (Soph), Glen Ross (Jr)., Tamie Dinolfo (Jr). Nominations are still being accepted. Interested students should see Prof. Lambert by Dec. 1 to be in- cluded on the ballot. LOST: One hockey cap with a Kronenbourg button. Sen- timental value. If found, Please call 6899!! WANTED: A female room- · mate for winter term in Smith House. Look . . . I'm begging now. Call Ali at 370-6761 The Arts Club of Union College in cooperation with the Arts Department will present Palladio, a film by James Ackerman. The film documents his Villa architecture and his Oil Cftle Greek froQt Delieious Delta Desserts The sisters of Tri-Delta will be having a Cookie Sale on Tuesday, Dec. 1 in Carnegie. Stop by for a tasty treat or arrange to have cookies hand delivered by a sister to a friend. influence in America. Thur- sday, 4 PM. Arts Building. Refreshments will be served. Th·e Friendly Visitor Program of the Human Ser- vices Planning Council (HSPC) consists.of a group of volunteers working together to eliminate some of the loneliness in the lives of shut-in senior citizens. International Student Alliance The International Student Alliance invites you to a wine and cheese party. This will be · our first meeting this academic year and we want to discuss some plans for this year's ac- tivities. · The International Student Alliance is interested in many activities (e.g., films, en- tertainment, travel) which tend to initiate and increase com- munication between foreign and American students. Anyone who. is _interested is welcome at Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall on Friday, Nov. 20, 1981 at 6:30 p.m. For further information Call Pradeep, 372-3247; Klaus, 377- 6714; or Stefan, 393-5336. Women's Network The Women's Network is sponsoring a talk by Prof. Jack Lipton on Thursday, November · 19 at 7:30 PM in Strauss Lounge. UNION COLLEGE FILM • COMMITTEE PRESENTS e Ices sharing one hour a week with someone that may prove to be a valuable friend, please contact Joyce Bruan, coordinator of the Friendly Visitor Program, at the HSPC offices, 372-3395. FOR SALE: Fresh Dura cell AA batteries. 4 for $L99. Compare. Call Bob at 37o-6762. All students interested in taking the Steinmetz Curriculum Seminar, ''The His discussion will concern the effects of the Women's Movement on men, the changing roles for men in society, and the advent of the men's movement in California. The film \Men's Lives\ will also be shown. Everyone is welcome, refrestunents will be served. Gay Discussion Group GAY Discussion Group meeting to discuss plans for Winter Term, Tuesday, Dec. 1 at8 PM in HU Lounge (2nd floor Humanities). All welcome! For more info call Dana 6860. Student Reading The Idol and the Pub are co- sponsoring student readings this Friday at 7 PM in the Pub. This is the first of many that are scheduled for later on iil the year. Students will be reading both original work and those of established writers. The bar will be open-all are welcome. Logic of Inquiry,'' are invited to apply now. This course will be team~taught in the Winter Term by Profs. Peter Heinegg and Barbara Markiewicz. The course will be taught on Tuesday and Thursday af- ternoons. Application forms may be picked up in the offices of either Prof. Heinegg or Prof. Markiewicz, or from the Steinmetz Director, Prof. Nichols. Applications must be returned before the Smith House SMITH HOUSE (PRE- REGISTRATION PARTY)-·· Friday night, register for Social. 69. Leave your inhibitions at home and come party with us. Spring Break '82 After a cold sinter in Schenectady, how does Florida sound? 7 days and 7 nights in · Daytona Beach with students from Union and Skidmore Colleges, March 19-28. The price is $239 for -round trip express transportation on a lavoratory equipped, Air Conditioned Deluxe motorcoach, 7 nights at Quality InnReef (tax included). Deposit $50 (includes $21> Damage Deposit) must be in to Mrs. Mara at Student Affairs by December 4, 1981. Capacity is 48 people-first come, first served basis. For more .information call: Steve Brown at 370-6635 or Mrs. Mara. Thanksgiving vacation; ap- plicants will be notified by mail in early December. The Department of Philosophy of Union College is pleased to announce that Dr. Aryeh Kosman of Havevford College will deliver a talk en- titled The Desire for Con- sciousness: Subjectivity and Determination in Aristotle's Theory of Human Nature. You are invited to attend Dr. Kosman's talk on Friday. November 20, 1981 at 3:30p.m. in Hwnanities 213. Refresh- ments will be served after the discussion. Baby of the Week I I Fem.ale Housing in Bronner House Co-op for Winter Term only -includes ~eal plan If interested, please call Lori, Jor;Jn or Felicia, 6808 THE WHO BOB SEGER PINK FLOYD RUSH NEil YOUNG BARRY MANILOW POLICE CARS PRETENDERS GENESIS BILLY .JOEL BLACK SABBATH GRATEFUl DEAD ROD STEWART MCCARTNEY VANHALEN AC/DC NEIL DIAMOND DAVID BOWIE OZZY OSBOURNE DEBBIE HARRY -WIN 2 FREE ROLLING STONES TICKETS- Mail your name and address. Your name will be automat· ically placed on our CONCERT HOTLINE MAILING LIST. Orawings will be announced and winners notified by mail.

.. CONOORDIENSIS, November 19, 1981 Page 13 General Nottices influence in America. Thur- sday, 4 PM. Arts Building. Refreshments will be served. The Friendly Visitor Program of the Human Ser- vices Planning Cmmcil (HSPC) consists of a group of volullteers working together to eLiminate some of the loneliness in tb.e lives of shut-in senior citizens. e Ices sharing one llour a week with someone that may prove to be a valuable friend, please contact Joyce Bruan, coordinator of the Friendly Visitor Program, at the HSPC effices, 372-3395. FOR SALE: Fresh Duracell AA batteries. 4 for $1.99. Compare. Call Bob at 37(}-6762. All students interested in taking the Steinmetz Curriculum Seminar, \The Logic of Inquiry,\ are invited to apply now. This course will be team-taughtin the Winter Term by Profs. Peter Heinegg and Barbara Markiewicz. The course wiU be taught on Tuesday and Thursday af- ternoons. Application forms may be picked up in the offices of either Prof. Heinegg or Prof. Markiewicz, or from the Steinmetz Director, Prof. Nichols. Applications must be returned before the Thanksgiving vacation; ap- plicants will be notified by mail in early December. The Department of There will be a meeting for aH Biology majors and minors on Tuesday, Dec. 1 at 4:30 in the Alps. Prof. Lambert will discuss winter term courses and other important· business. Elections will be held for student representatives to the Biology Department. Students running for each class are: Tom Megerian (FR), Lisa Roller (sop h), Steve Sissler (So ph), Glen Ross ( Jr), Tamie Dinolfo (Jr). Nominations are still being accepted. Interested students should see Prof. Lambert by Dec. 1 to be in- cluded on the ballot. Oq Tile Otber froqt Philosophy of Union College is pleased to announce that Dr. Aryeh Kosman of Haverford College will deliver a talk en- titled The Desire for Con· sciousness: Subjectivity and Oetermination in Aristotle's Theory of Human Nature. LOST: One hockey cap with a Kronenbourg button. Sen- timental value. If found, Please call 6899!! WANTED: A female room- mate for winter term in Smith House. Look . . . I'm begging now. Call Ali at 370-6761 The Arts Club of Union College in cooperation with the Arts Department will present Palladio, a film by James Ackerman. The film documents his Villa architecture and his Oq CflJe Greek froqt Delicious Delta Desserts The sisters of Tri-Delta will be having a Cookie Sale on Tuesday, Dec. 1 in Carnegie. Stop by for a tasty treat or arrange to have cookies hand delivered by a sister to a friend. International Student Alliance The International Student Alliance invites you to a wine and cheese party. This will be our first meeting this academic year and we want to discuss some plans for this year's ac- tivities. The International Student Alliance is interested in many activities (e.g., films, en- tertainment, travel) which tend to initiate and increase com- munication between foreign and American students. Anyone who is interested is welcome at Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall on Friday, Nov. 20, 1981 at 6:30 p.m. For further information Call Pradeep, 372-3247; Klaus, 377- 6714; or Stefan, 393-5336. Women's Network The Women's Network is sponsoring a talk by Prof. Jack Lipton on Thursday, November · 19 at 7:30 PM in Strauss Lounge. UNION COLLEGE FILM • COMMITTEE PRESENTS His discussion will concern the effects .of the Women's Movement on men, the changing roles for men in society, and the advent of the men's movement in California. The film \Men's Lives\ will also be shown. Everyone is welcome, refreshments will be served. Gay Discussion Group GAY Discussion Group meeting to discuss plans for Winter Term, Tuesday, Dec. 1 at 8 PM in HU Lounge (2nd floor Humanities). All welcome! For more info call Dana 6860. Student Reading The Idol and the Pub are co- sponsoring student readings this Friday at 7 PM in the Pub. This is the first of many that are scheduled for later on in the year. Students will be reading both original work and those of established writers. The bar will be open-all are welcome. Smith House SMITH HOUSE (PRE· REGISTRATION PARTY)- .. Friday night, register for Social 69. Leave your inhibitions at home and come party with us. Spring Break '82 After a cold sinter in Schenectady, how does Florida sound? 7 days and 7 nights in Daytona Beach with students from Union and Skidmore Colleges, March 19-28. The price is $239 for round trip express transportation on a lavoratory equipped, Air Conditioned Deluxe motorcoach, 7 nights at Quality Inn Reef (tax included). Deposit $50 (includes $25 Damage Deposit) must be in to Mrs. Mara at Student Affairs by December 4, 1981. Capacity is 48 people-first come, first served basis. For more information call: Steve Brown at 370-6635 or Mrs. Mara. You are invited to attend Dr. Kosman's talk on Friday, November 20, 1981 at 3:30 p.m. in HUJJlanities 213. Refresh- ments will be served after the discussion. Baby of the Week dlflllllta.~ '\--· \ I I Fem.ale Housing • 1n Bronner House Co-op for Winter Term only -includes meal plan If interested, please call Lori, Joan or Felicia, 6808 THE WHO BOB SEGER PINK FLOYD RUSH NEIL YOUNG BARRY MANILOW POLICE CARS PRETENDERS GENESIS BILLY JOEL BLACK SABBATH GRATEFUL DEAD ROD STEWART PAUL MCCARTNEY VANHALEN AC/DC NEIL DIAMOND DAVID BOWIE Y OSBOURNE DEBBIE HARRY -WIN 2 FREE ROLLING STONES TICKETS- Mail your name and address. Your name will be automat· ically placed on our CONCERT HOTLINE MAILING LIST. Drawings will be ann<Junced and winners notified by mail.

0 0 OONOORDIENSIS~ November 19. 1981 Page 14 Heod~d ~to the Nationals: . Ha·rriers Na·b State Title By TRISH MORIARTY If only its second year as a varsity sport, the women's cross country team has achieved the seemingly im- possible by y,rinning the New Y:ork State NCAA Division III Championships. The team will now be New York's Division III representative at the NCAA National Championships, to be held on Saturday, Nove. 21, in Racine, Wisconsin. Division III title. Hardwork, by both team members and Coach Russ Ebbets, has:definitely paid off. Coach Ebbets, in his first season here at Union, has tapped the available resources in the Union women and produced a dynamite team. .c 0. It is. a bit of an un- derstatement to say that the team has come a long way from its season opening tenth .place· finish at the Williams College Women's Invitational to its This was most evident this past Saturday at Hamilton College, site of the NCAA race. Pre-race tension was in· credible. The W()rnen knew their chances were;g()Qd, having been told by Coach Ebbets ~hat there was an 80 percent chance that . they could win. This was the race in which :the;y ,would be called upon to ~ive tlleir most; \:hich is :precisely what they did. The f1ve· D.utchwomen all finished in the top half, with three finishing :in the .top ten. were i6th place Janice Glidden and 20th place Sue Stopera. The team's total score, 37, allowed the women to beat second place Plattsburg State by 1 point. It was the presence of non-scoring women (those who were at- tempting to qualify individually for the Wisconsin meet, .not competing for a team title) which secured Union's victory. Their place~;~ were not counted in the scoring, thus dropping each Dutchmen's place suf .. ficiently to ensure the victory. It was a jubilant coach and squad · who returned to Union College on Saturday afternoon. ~ ci Union's 1st place harrier, lnge Stockman Spikers End Season -· By CATHY GIFFORD The season ended for Union's volleyball squad last Tuesday, November 10, with a 3-1 loss to Army in a best-of-five match ( stats unavailable). The team was very aggressive but Division II Army kept fighting and left victorious. Over the weekend of October 30-31, the squad travelled to Queens, N.Y., for a Hallowe'en tour- nament, where they lost to Eastern Connecticut, Queens, and Mansfield. The competition at Queens was the best met throughout the year, but Union's spirits were a little tired by that point. Travelling to Oneonta on November 4, the ,squad defeated Russell Sage but was handed yet another loss by Oneonta (Division II). The final overall record for 1981 is 12 wins, 17 losses. Although the records show a losing season, the team over- came injuries and the flu to play good volleyball. Alicia Granlund, Amy Hinshaw, and freshman Laura Berrish developed into strong middle hitters, supported by strong side hitters Katie Schatzle, Natalie Stone, and Jodi Bren- ner. Brenda Hugick, the team setter, :was impressive throughout the season, giving everything to the game. She will return next year to lead 9 returning players, including three freshmen, to a winning season. The statistics show a strong, young team, ready to play. All right? Okay! YOUR HOLIDAY GIFT HEADQUARTERS Armetale Mugs Back Packs Barware Bean Bags Blankets Cuff Links Decals Digital Desk Clocks Director's Chair Mittens Pen & Pencil Sets Pennants Pewter Gifts The harriers were led by 4th place finisher Inge Stockman, who covered the muddy, wet course in 20:45. Close behind Stockman wer..a seventh place Danielle Chemaik (20:53) and eighth place Joan O'Connor (20: 55). Rounding out the scoring for the Union squad A Friday morning departure for Wisconsin, via Buffalo and Chicago, is planned for Ebbets and the yvomen. Trish Mo~iarty, recovermg from a leg mjury, will also go. The race is scheduled to begin at 11 a.m .• and they will be returning Saturday evening. Be sure to wish them well before they depart for their most prestigious race all season. Way to g~~Union! Coneordiensis wishes the Women's Cross Country team the best of luck in the Nationals this weekend. Go to it, Dutchwomen! Blazer Buttons Drafting Pens Engagement Calendars Playing Cards Plush Animals Wedgewood Plates Windbreakers Books Calculators Calligraphy Sets Ceramic Mugs Children's Apparel College Prints College Rings Crysta I Animals Fountain Pens Gift Certificates Gloves Gym Bags Jogging Outfi.ts Key Chains Rugby Shirts Scarves Ski Caps Sweatshirts Ties Wall Calendars Wallets CAMPUS STORE I c Bo< of sen hor per gaz of No' rec:: onE s tac

14 1e ~d ~e It lg lt- ly ot e) y. ~d lg If- It id. ge re lld ~ts ;y, 'Y. is fl., llg to ey 1St ay By MIKE SHARP Congratulations to Steve Bodmer, the final Miller Athlete of the Week for the fall semester. Steve earned his honors with .an outstanding performance in the football game against the Continentals of Hamilt()n College on November 14th, in which he rec:overed two fumbles and had one interce~tion. Steve, a 6 3' ', 210 lb. defensive tackle for the Dutchmen, made O(JNCORDIENSIS 1 November 19, 1981 Athlete of the W·eek several key plays m the decisive 36-(l victory. For one of his fumble recoveries, Steve dived on the ball on the Hamilton two. yard line, which enabled halfback Bill Huttner to carry the ball over on the next down. His other fumble recovery occurred when he sacked the opposing quarterback and gained ·possession of the ball. In another crucial situation, Steve picked off a screen pass. He was in on 13~plus tackles during the .game. Steve has had· :many years of experience on t~e gridiron; he played two yeus of varsity football at ihh hometown Westfjeld H.S .. , and he just finished his third year for Union College. Steve was happy with the team\s win, whicllenabled them to .finish the season with a 4-4-1 recorll. He feels that the team showed a large improvement over last year's ~quad and that their strong finLsh will attract some very pro~nising recruits. Steve is a junior economics major, who hai.ls kom West- field,· New Jersey. He is currently a mEmber of the Page 15 ~ \1. U::, ~@l( lt? 0 ~@ ::-\ ''/, @% Delta Upsilon if:iaternity. Athlete of the week Steve Bodmer (No. 53). R~ggers Upset Harvard ~.~-/w.~ .. - ·~ ~~ -~, ~ . HALF-PRI·CE NEW BOOKS ~. Featuring Select Books on the Arts and ·Politics 20· % ADDITIONAL DISCOUNT W'LTH THIS AD UNTIL NOV. 21st 510 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY (One Block from Proctor's) THE NORTHEASTERN MBA Here's away to earn an MBA t'-tat really makes sense. When you stur JY for your Master of Business Administra- tion degree in the MBA Management Intern Program at Northeastern University, you have six months of paid on~the-job experience interposed between two periods of accelerated classroom study of six and nine months. The value ofthis work experience goes beyond the apparent benefits of a balanced exposure to theory and practice. The rewards can be meaningful and numerous in terms of total educational perspective, self image, and future career goals. Most management intern students' income for the six·month period can be a substantial contribution to the cost ofearning the Northeastern MBA degree. Northeastern University is located in Boston, a city with a wealth of cultural resources and entertainment and recrea- tional facilities. Classes begin in June and January. For complete information on the Northeastern Manage- ment Intern MBA Program as well as other full-time and part-time MBA programs, call (617) 437-2719 or use the coupon below. Graduate School of Business Administration I Northeastern University 360 Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA 02115 N I ByS.C. The Union Rugby Football Club upset the l'Iarvard RFC by a score of 17-3 in its fall season finale· in Cambridge, Mass., on Saturday. The game, which was ... played on a ty-pical fall New · England Day with tem- peratures near freezing, the wind gusting, arid rain lingering in the air, is by far the biggest victory of the sEason. On Harvard's first possession, the tone .of the .game -was set as JoeCardino brutally tackled the hoiDe-team fly-half who had to be helped off the field. Here, Harvard was awarded a s~rum-down in which it gaine<i possession and - - started to wCJrk the ball down through the line. A~ this point, Eric Serilli moved in for the tackle causing Harvard to lose the ball. Quickly Tom Conway picked up the ball and pitched it out tQ winger Lee Waxman. Waxman then bolted down the sidel!\e and into the endzone putting the ball do\Vll behind the goal post. This put the Union ruggers on top 4-0; the kick- after-try missiilg. The next scol'ing opportunity for Union cam.ce minutes later. Again our r11ggers gained possession ami moved it deep into Harvard territory, but play was stopped because of a Harvard penalty. Union then decided to go ·for the penalty kick. Union placekicker Lester Kennedy then split the uprights Qn a perfectly placed kick good for two more tJnion points. After this ·it was Harvard's turn to put some points on the scoreboard. \£'he home team pushed the ba11 down the field I Name I I ::::. · 1 [_, I School _ . Class of I · 1 \~: Northeastern University · 1....:· IN BOSTON:._j Competitive Swimmers Needed! Coach Magee welcomes any man or woman swimmer who is desirous of swimming on either the Union varsity team, or de~irous of forming a seperate swim team for women. Team swims at 3:30 tlaily. Contact Coach. Magee at .Alumni Gym, into Union's territory for the first time in the game. After a misplayed serum-down, Har- vard chose to kick for points. Kicking against the strong, gusty wind, the placekicker booted the ball clearing the crossbar by inches. This was all the Harvard squad could muster against the tough Union defense. Before half-time Union had the chance. to score once more. As the Harvard ruggers were passing down their line deep in - their own territory, Union's Conway leveled the home-team outside center who then fum· bled the ball. Cardino then scooped it u.p off the ground and pushed his way goalward and was tackled inches over the line, putting the ball down for another Union try. This time Kennedy made good the kick- after-try worth two points. The teams went into half-time with the score 13-3 in Union's favor. The teams came ou.t after the five-minute break with lJnion going against the wind. This gave the HaiVard team an advantage which it failed to make use of.' Never- theless, this didn't stop Union's strong offensive charge. Union continuously pushed the ball toward the Harvard try-line througho11t the second half. Only several fine kicks by the Harvard fullback (with the wind at his back) held the Garnet-and-White ruggers from a total romp. Also, again in this half, the Union serum totally dominated the opposing serum as most scrum·d<>wns went in Union's favor. This gave the Union line plenty of time to work out its plays and or at the pool Join us. · Union Ruggers move the ball downfield maneuver through the Harvard defense. · Union did get an opportunity to score as Keith Dean tackled a Harvard offender causing him to give the ball up. Tony Morgan quickly moved in and kicked the ball up the field on the ground. Outside center Conway picked the ball up and headed for the endzone. With a couple of fancy moves, Conway dodged several Harvard defenders to score untouched raising the score to its 17-3 mark (kick-after missing). The club is now planning for its Spring season. Last week the team held its elections. Elected as Captains were Joe Cardino in charge of the line, and Jody Karlin as head of the serum. Eric Serilli was voted in as Match Secretary. Ron Slosberg was re-elected for another season as Club Treasurer. Voted in as Special Chairman for the Mardi Gras Tournament was Jay McDermott. Elected as social chairman was Kevin Taylor. Finally, Keith Dean and Scott Collins were elected as the Promotions and Publicity Co. chairmen. The club is now looking for- ward to the Annual Mardi Gras Tournament to be held at Southern Louisiana University this February. This Spring the club has already been invited to the Colgate Tournament and the Siena Tournament. The club is also in the midst of organizing the first Annual Union Cup Tournament. Also, individual games are planned with Albany Law School, Albany Medical School, and RPI. Harvard· has also asked for a rematch to avenge its loss. \%' .. ... \;) c: Ill E .... 0 z c: E I.. 0 .._ </) > .c 0 - 0 .&:: a.

Page 16 OONOORDIENSIS, November 19, 1981 Football Crushes Hamilton By LOU GEORGE \This was the whole season right here!' \This whole .game was for the future.\ \We had to go 4--4-1.\ These quotes :by co- captains Bruce Melena and Mike Dana displayed the im- portance of Union's decisive victory ( 36-0) over Hamilton last Saturday afternoon. The Dutchmen knew exactly what was at stake for them on their last game of the season; if they lost it was another losing season to add on to a string of 10. If they won it would be their first non- losing season in ten years and a very promising step toward the future. After starting off the season very well and reaching a record of 3-1-1, beating 4th ranked Albany State, the Dutchmen then went on to lose three straight games, dropping their record to 3-4-1, and making the ~ntire season ride on the last game. The Dut- chmen rose to the occasion and played a fantastic all-around game. The offense moved the ball at will, accwnulatlng 361 total yards, while the defense held Hamilton to only 34 yards rushing and 104 yards passing. The first score was the result of a great punt by Union's Mark McKelv~y .putting the ball on the Hamilton, one yard line. Hamilton fumbled on the next play and Dutchman Steve Bodmer recovered. On the next play. Bill .. Huttner powered in from the 2-yard lin~~ At the end of the first quarter. Union had a 7-0 lead. In the second quarter, a 46- yard Dan Stewart to Walt Frederick pass set up McKelvey's 26-yard field goal to put Union up by ten. Late in the first half, quarterback Dan Stewart used Walt Fredericks and Kevin Gibbons (four cat- ches for over 100 yds.) ef- fectively in a 67-yard scoring drive that ended with Oggle Dodge's one-yard touchdown run. ·The Dutchmen went into the lockerroom with a com- fortable 1&0 lead. Union came out in the third quarter and :began moving the ball at once. On first down and five yards t<J go, Stewart unleashed a perfect strike to Kevin Gibbons who was streaking down the sideline after easily beating the defensive coverage for a 72- yard touchdown pass. Union again used the air attack to set up the nert touchdown. Roger Harris hit Ed Mascolo at the Tod Fobare prepares to tire a backhander. Hamilton one-yard line, and from there Roger ran it in to up the score to 29-0. In the fourth quarter. Steve Cirillo covered an Odgen Dodge fumble to score the last touchdown of the day, making the score 36-(). Throughout the game, while the Dutchmen offense continued its scoring binge, tbe defensive unit played tremendously by not allowing one Hamilton scoring threat. Defensive end Bruce Melina won the Ralph Rue award for the outstanding player in the game. Other defensive standouts were George Oberstadt and Steve Bodmer, who had two fumble recoveries and an interception. After a 1 8 7 season last year, a 4-4-1 season is surely a step in the right direction. Finishing the season with a tremendous all-around effort and a 36-0 romp gives the returning let· termen the incentive to prepare for a better than .500 season. Congratulations to ;the graduating seniors: Mike Dana, Bruce Melina, Mark Palmoba, Kevin Wolf, Dana Johnston, Chip Symington, Ray Rudolph, and Mike Jenkins for a good season and especially for laying the foundation for a very promising future. Union blocking paves the way for victory Hockey Wins Opener By PAUL KURKER The Union College varsity hockey team opened its 1981- 1982 season with an exciting come-from-behind victory over a scrappy Genseo State squad. In the first period (){ the 5-3 game, Geneseo came out flying and took advantage of several Union puck-handling JUistakes to go up 2-0. Early in the second period, Geneseo added to their lead with what proved to be their last score of the game. As often happens, a penalty was an important turning point in the game. During the Geneseo penalty, at 10:53, Joe Caruso netted a goal with ·assists going to Don Beall and Kevin McLaughlin. Caruso's goal narrowed the gap t() one goal but more importantly sparked the Union skaters, and from this point on Union dominated the play. The Dutclunen came out in the third period on fire. At 6:45, freshman center Gill Egan scored with Joe Caruso and Don Beall collecting assists on the game-tying score. The .game remained tied for six minutes until freshman defenseman Sean Wills scored. the game- winner with assists going to co- captain Tod Fobare and Jamie Knight. Late in the period, Geneseo, in a desperation move, pulled their netminder in favor of an extra skater. This move backfired as Tod Fobare put a goal into the open net on a pass from Sean Wills. Union continued the winning ways established in the preseason despite a weak defense due to the loss of junior co-captain Scott Fitzgerald, Who is out with mononucleosis. Union has a tough week ahead with a game against Div. II powerhouse Plattsburgh and two games against Div. I teams R.P .I. and Dartmouth. SPORT·S HAPPENINGS Hoopsters Ready to Roll Hockey Basketball Nov. 19 afRPI Nov. 22 Da rtmoutn Nov. 20 Albany St. atRPI Joe Clinton is ready to lead the Union basketball team~ By ERIC J. SAPIR The Union basketball team, coached by Bill Scanlon, opens up its l!ml-1982 schedule Friday night with the Capital District Tournament. Union is pitted against perennial rival Albany State. The two other teams involved in the tourney are R.P.I. and Western Con- necticut. Coach Scanlon is very op- timistic about this year's team and the upcoming season. When looking down the roster it seems that he has good reason to be. The team returns seven players who have all seen a good share of varsity action. Included in these are Captains John \The Count\ Montanile, Joe Clinton and John \J.J.\ Jarosak. Rounding off the list of veterans are Juniors Jeff \Rocky\ Feigelson and Joe Rutnik and Sophomores Joe Wood,and Jim Hogan. Center Montanile is 6'3\ and is 205 pounds of pure muscle. He is a three year starter and will provide the bulk under the boards. He has good spring in his legs and can get up with the best· ot them. The \Count\ combines a rugged inside game with a sweet shooting touch to compensate for the height disadvantage at which he ususally finds himself. Junior Clinton has displayed his magical qribbling abilities and has given opposing guards clinics in passing and defense for two years now. He is within 121 assists of the school record currently held by one-time great Bill Carmody. His smarts, quickness and poise will win more than one game for the Dutchmen this season~ At 6'2\ 4-year starter John Jarosak is the most versatile player on the roster. He will be starting at the swing forward position but if needed, he can move to point guard, or even move down low with the big guys. The bottom line on J arosak is that he is ex- perienced, talented, and he gets the job done. The other starting forward will be Jeff Feigelson. This is Feigelson's· first. ye(!r as a starter. He is. a hard worker, has good speed, and is a tremendous defensive player. ''Feigs'' is 6'4\ 205 pounds and is tough. when he gets the ball down low. He will be the Count's right.hand man in sweeping rebounds off the boards. Sophomore Joe Wood will be Clinton's hackcourt mate full time this year. Joe saw a lot of action as a freshman and proved himself as a top notch guard. Coach Scanlon feels that everyone will be forced to contribute this year and he hopes to use what he believes to be the team's best strength- overall team .speed-to their fullest advantate. But you can't run if you don't have the ball; and you won't have the ball if you don't rebound. This is where the;team's weakness lies, as it has in past years-lack of height. Their three starting · forwards are at 6'2\ 6'3\ and 6'4''. This might be tough when they're up against teams with a line of 6'6\. 6'7\ 6'8\. A fine recruiting year by Scanlon and his crew has brought height to Union in freshmen Kevin Bartlett, 6'6\ Ken D'Orasio, 6'7\ and Jim Diherty. 6 '4\. Whether this height will be utilized or not, it remains to be :;een. Good luck to the tf;lam for the 1981-82 basketball season. .. ( ..

