ite ity run for with first was in the the on try of con· half had ~ 25-3 the rugby NeallY Africa Union 23 . >- u ro ...1 Ul ·c .c u >- .0 0 - 0 .c 0. cxn, No. :8 . . . ' ~ .. • Ms. Matilda CuQmo, wife ot the NYS Gove~nor-ei~ct, greeted well- wishers and supporters In Strauss Lounge. Can / Cuomo Fill Carey's S·hoes? p. 3 -Career Week Capped by Festival p.3 • November 4, 1982 Matilda Cuomo at Union Football Breaks Thirteen :--<:.'\ ··' • < ... --~ Year Jinx: 34-0 p.20 ....

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIB~ November 4 .. 198$. Ostrom SaVes West Craig Ostrom, Manager of West 1College Dining Halt Nott Not Fu n,ded By GAYLE ROSENFELD Staff . In Volume CXII, NO. 5 of Conc.ordlensts, an article was printed · stating the current problems with renovation of the Nott Memorial. Although many barriers stand in the way of the Nott's restoration, the most prominent one is that of money. An allusion was made in the aforementioned story to a .fund in existence for the express purpose of the Nott's recon- struction. Exact figures as to the amount in this fund have been secured from COmptroller David Deacon of the Accounting Department. According to Deacon, presently there is a total of $14,305.38 in the Nott fund. What should be recalled from the previous .article in Con\ cordieuls is that this fund was started as an incentive for future donations. Therefore, this sum should not appear so surprisingly minimal. This money is in a separate fund in the college's name. Concerning the origin of the money, Deacon noted that in 1980 there was \a big drive for graduating Union students to donate }Vhatever was left from their matriculation and con- tinuationfee M&C).\ 'l'hisfeeis paid by all incoming students as an admissions fee and is returned to them when they graduate. In the past this fee was $50, but it has risen to the current amount of $100. This M&C fee, along with very small contributions from the Alumni Council, comprise tb:e Nott fund. Unfortunately, the amount of the M&C donations have dropped in each Qf the past two years. In 1980, the M&C donations consisted of $6,780. In 1981, they were approximately $3,337 and in 1982 they were about $1,675. Graduating students are accepting their M&C refunds instead of returning them tothe College. A lack of enthusiasm for the Nott project is obviously related to the diminishing contributions. Unless interest in the Nott -is revived, this seemingly paltry fund will most undoubtedly cease to prove even an in· ducement for further donations. By JAY BARUCH Staff The next time you eat at West College and you are com. plaining about the lunch pr you are saying how the dinner was not half bad you should tell the mediUm sized man with the wire rimmed glasses and the blonde mustache who you always see walking around. This man is Craig Ostrom and he is the new Head of Food . Services at West College. This interviewer had not met Ostrom :prior ~0 this interview ... but what was noticed immediately was his easy and relaxed manner~ The purp6se .for this talk wtts to give the ,,students a chance to find. out the ideas and thoughts of the new man responsible for their meals. Ostrom ls n()t a. stranger to Schene!!ta.dy, having been oorn and raiSed here. , He graduated from SUNY Cobleskill with a degree in Food Service and Management. He also did some. studying at the Rochester Institute of Technology. Ostrom sa.id that he came to Union \cold\, with very little ex- perience in a college setting. Prior to this job he did much work with food services in hospitals. Even though he had experience in this kind of food service he said that the services at hospitals and colleges are of two different kinds. \In a hospital the service is more structured to the patient. There is not as much freedom .as far as me~u selection. There is only a choice between one of two en- tr~s. In a college setting there is more flexibility.\ When Ostrom arrived here at Union he said that the menu cycle needed some revision .. The menus are planned ahead in one month blocks. The planning of the menu cycle is a joint effort between Ostrom and ~ the manager at Hale House, Rich Cardone. Ostrom said that' since Rich Cardone had been here for a year he was able to use Cardone's experience and Women's Service Expands ' By SHERRY WEITZEN the cost of any additional staH medicine, birth control devices, The Union College Health Service, located on the second floor of Silliman Hall, offers women counseling for birth control and limited treatment for gynecological problems. Dr. Irani, a doctor of obstretics and gynecology at .Ellis Hospital, is available to see students in the campus infirmary from 1:00 to 3:00 on Tuesdays. Mrs. Doris Richards, a nurse practioner, is normally available during the infirmary's week day hours. She can give students In- formation about birth control and can usually deal with any initial gynecological problem. The women's health services were offered last year, although students with any problems were taken to Ellis Hospital to see a staff doctor on Wed- nesdays. Since the services were used and are still being used by a sufficient number of the students, the College decided to hav,e the doctor come on campus. Since Ellis Hospital is obligated to supply health care to Union students, it sends future treatments, etc. Often Mrs. Richards recommends that students go to Planned Parenthood, especially those women interested in using the pill as a method of birth control. Through the infirmary, the cost per year for the pill. is around $70 to$80, but if the student goes to Planned Parenthood, the cost is much less. Also; in the case of pregnancy, Richards refers women to Planned Parenthood for objective counseling, so they can make a decision. The Planned Parenthood office -is convenient•y located on Union Street; and Richards says a good number of students do use its services. Located in City Hall on Jay Street, the Schenectady Health Department offers a free venereal disease clinic, open Dr. Irani, who is the only full time employee of the OB-GYN E department of the Hospital. He :;, treats only problems, and is not .! available on campus to do ii . annual checkups for women. If ~ .· there is some sort of c: emergency, a student may be m referred to an outside doctor for <i: further treatment. ~ Mondays and Thursdays from. 5l30 p,m. to 7:30 p.m. If a student were to be treated through the infirmary for VD, the bill would be costly. This free clinic is an alternative for anyone who thinks he or she might have VD, or needs treatment for it. There is also the National Hotline for .Sexually Transmitted Diseases, which is available from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. on the weekdays, and 1 p.m. to 9 p.m. on weekends. The number is 800-227-8922. The infirmary also has a wide selection of informational pamphlets on PAP smears, Herpes, Cystitis, venereal diseases, contraceptives, etc. These can be picked up any time the infirmary is open, which is Monday through Friday, from 7:30 a.m. to 11 p.m., and on Saturday and Sundayfrom 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. All of the women's health o services, as well as the health 'S care done on campus, is free. -K The students are responsible for Nrs. Doris Richards, nurse practitioner, and Dr. Irani. the feedback he accwnulated throughout the past year in planning the menu cycle. Ostrom said that they are trying to add more variety to tbe menu. They have cut down the repitition of :the same types of vegetables. Also, since there is a large Jewish po.pulation at Union they have cut down the frequen~cy of serving pork. When pork is served as an entree, they make. sure that there is a viable alternative as the second entree. . . \Basically\, he said, \you are trying to stay out .of a rut.' • One example of the innovations to help break the routine was the Halloween party Saturday night. \This was the idea of one of my head students, Carolyn Stein. We felt it was a good time .for a party, With people just finishing with midterms. For those people who still had tests it was a change. We hung deco.rations on the walls, there was a D.J. plaYing m~ic, we gave out door prt.ze·s, and we had prizes for the best costumes~\ Ostrom said that he hopes to have these theme nights more often .. One idea that is being considered is a D.J. type set up on Friday nights. He is also hoping to have . something different ·for Thanksgiving in two or three weeks. Another idea that is tentatively being considered is serving coffee and doughnuts from 10 p.m. to midnight during finals· week. These are only a fewofthe ideas that are in tbe planning stages that hopefully will give some variety to West College. One aspect that was noticed about Ostrom is that he is always open to change, Nor- mally during dinner there are. only two entrees. In an effort to get more variety ·out of dinner there will be a third entree on selected nights. \This' third entree will be a small batch of a new recipe or item. We will then see the response of the-students as to if they hate it or ifthey ~e it.\ He said that if the- new entree draws . a good r-esp6Iise he would gladly add it to the menu cycle in place of some entree that is getting negative reactions. Another innovation to give the students an added alternative during lunch is the addition .of a deli bar, \This deli bar might also be added to brunch ·On the weekends. so that it is really brunch .and not just late breakfast.'' Th~oughout the intervi~w, Ostromstressedthe importance of variety and change to help break up the monotony .. His tho1.1ghtson Dutchrnan's night is that ''it is an e~cel},ent op- portunity for the students to ' have a. completely ,different surrounding with a more relaxed atmosphere to break the monotony.'' The change in atmosphere does not take away from the fact that West College could use some minor renovations. \I would ·love to get the walls painted,. get new curtains, have the tiles scrubbed and have the tables fixed!' Even though the decor of West College Could use some· refurbishing, -~trom stated that. \service is 90 pel;'cent of our business.\ · Ostrom showed great pride in the food and in the service. \We serve. very little convenience food. The soup is made daily. A great percentage of the foqd is made from scratch.\ An example of this is the sauce, the gravy, and the baked goods. He also mentioned that he is trying to obtain a greater assortment for the salad bar as .far as new dressings and different types of salads .. As much as he spoke about the ideas for improving ·meats for the students, he spoke even more enthusiastically about his staff. To· repeat what was stated earlier, Ostrom came to 'Union with very little, experience .fu college food service. He said . that the transition was eased trelllendously by Bob Knapp who \has been indispensible in helping out.\ He has- been · everything i the cook, the chef, and assistant manager. . The Contlllued on page 4 1982-83WINTER TERM PREREGISTRATION NOTICE Prereg.istration mater.ials for winter 'term 1982-83 will be available at the Office of the Reg,istrar, Silliman Hall,. beginning Monday, November 8th. Required permission cards for designated courses will be available Wednesday, November 10th. Students are urged to promptly secur:e their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the winter term, except for graduating seniors, must immediately give· notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students, Car- negie Hall. Potentia:! December graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of fall term, if th~y have not already done so. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week· of November 8-12th. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such an- nouncements,. Course .request forms are due .at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, Novembe·r 15th. A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THEREAFTER! Concordiensis Photography Staff· Meeting Friday, November 5, 5 :00 in the office r t E j I I t t

the to the to that just i~w, His btis o.p- to ·ea~ Nay ege to cor of is ~w of ~d OONOORDiliJ.NSIS, November 4., 198S. Wife Advitnces Victory By A. J. BRODSKY Jt~tor-~bfef Victory is sweet. No doubt Matilda Cuomo deserves to eat the fruits of .her husband's win in the New York Gubernatorial Election just for her enormous effort. The new First Lady of Albany, on her last whirlWind campaign trip, stopped .at the Colleg.e early last Friday morning to address curious members of the commlil1ity and to thank supporters. High on that list o~ · supporters and respopsible _for .. Mrs .. Cuomo's appearance .Is Professor Thomas K.etshner of the Economics 'Department. Schenectady was· one of thirtyathree cities . Vl:here Matilda Cuomo spoke to well· wishers and the .press on- .her nine-day tol,lf of duty. Actually, 'tour of duty' is a.misnomer. In her address and personal in• terview given to ~oncordiensls, Mrs. Cuomo spoke positively of her role in the campaign.. In fact, Cuomo approached · the Governor-elect at the beginning of his fight afid asked \what approach dol take, what do you want me to do and.say?\ Mario Cuomo candidly encouraged her to define her own role in the campaign. - Mrs. Cuomo's short address dealt primarily with those issues most pertinent to the Upstate region. The First Lady~ to-be presented her husband's credentials in all three bran- ches of the State government. As an executive, \he has been a key part of the team,'' stated Mrs. Cuomo. The Governor- elect, pointed out his wife, has been acting governor over 200 times. On· his experience in the legislative sector, ''he has presided over the Senate ... he sees the' bills and laws, the problems addressed all over the state.\ Mrs. Cuomo feels that the judiciary is his \greatest facet.\ She added \that man is incredibly tuned in to the criminal justice system .. \ Mrs. Cuomo continued on the same tack and concluded. by en .. couraging yoWtg people to vote. She- warned that, \in a democracy, you get what- you des.erve, you will pay for uninvolvement.\ Pertinent to the community's interests at this late date are Mrs. Cuomo's replies to several questions offered by Con- cordiensis. When asked. what her influence was on the Govemor~elect's stances on s<r called women's issues, Mrs. Cuomo reminded this reporter that the couple has three daughters. HNecessarily,\ she added, \'\Mario is t~ed in· on these issues.'' Mrs. Cuomo feels · that ber husband knows that women must be \confronted on an equal basis.\ The Governor- elect's position paper, distributed during the cam- paign, is endorsed by the N.O.W. grou,p. High on the list of Cuomo ·objectives . is \reproductive freedom for women.\ As to her new role as wife of the Governor, Mrs. Cuomo wants Jo c.ontinue her in- volvement in community. af· fairs. She recently assumed the position of Chairperson of the NYS Commission on the International Year of the Child . Mrs. Cuomo -would \really like to teach health and nutrition to children (on the state level).'' She feels that little has been done in this area by public educators. Mrs. Cuomo C611- tinued that \I would like to give my input into th.e State EdUcation Department.'' Crucial to the children at· tending public schools is the development of respect for their bodies. Then, concludes Cuomo, \the· ills along the way can be avoided.'' Mrs. Cuomo also sees a need to champion the cause of the elderly. · The Governor-elect has come out stron;gly in favor' of con- tinued financial aid to college The folloWiflQ candidates for the position of Director of Career Counseling and Placement will be on the campus for interviews during the next few weeks. Please feel welcome to come and meet with the candidates on the dates and times noted below. All meetings will be in STRAUSS LOUNGE, Carnegie Hall. ·, Wednesday, Nov. 3 (4 p.m.)--~Lewis Austin, Associate Director of Career Counseling and Placement, Univ .. of California, Santa Cruz. Friday, Nov. 5 (4 p.m.)--William Collins, Viee President for Administration and Strategic Planning, De.laware and Hudson Railway Co. Wednesday, Nov. 10 (3 p.m.)--Howard Ot- tenstein, . Deputy Project Manager-Resources, Goddard Spa.ce Flight Center, NASA. Monday, Nov. 15 (4 p.m.)--Joanne Tobiessen, Director, Career Development Center, Russell· Sage College, Troy, NY · Wednesday, Nov. 17 (4 p.m.J--Patricia Matteo, Acting Director, Career Counseling & Placement, Union College. - Friday, Nov. 19 (4 p.m.)--Yungwha Min, Director of Career Services, College of St. Rose, Albany, NY. Don't spend four years of your life. with y~ur head in your ~ooks. Get l'nvolvedl Write News for Concordlensis ' Dependable reporters needed· Call 6155 6762 or 6923 students while also advocating cuts in taxes. Mrs. Cuomo faced up the .apparent .trade-off~ She stated that ''He(Mario Cuomo) bas a commitment to help children stay . in higher education.\ Mrs. Cuomo added that the middle class and the poor will be hard~pressed in the near future. Fitst, claims the new First Lady, the Governor will have to confront the deficit. \As soon as it is feasible,\ Mrs. Cuomo continued, \he will address the fact that you young people. must be enforced to stay in school.\ Matilda Cuomo ended with a statement worthy of the history books, \you never balance the budget on the backs of the children.\ -s - ~~ Professor Joseph Schmee along with · Irwin Mecken, Eiaine Solomon and Nell Pollicino, local professionals involved in Career Week. Experts DisCuss Careers By M.ttRCY BURSTINER News Editor This past week, students had the opportunity to meet with professionals representing various career fi.elds in a program sponsored by the Career Center and entitled •·• Career Awareness Week.\ The program, which took place on Oct. 25-28, consisted of discussion panels with professionals .from the local area, and was highlighted by the fourth annual Career Festival on Oct. 26. Thirty-three companies sent recruiters to the festivalJ according to Pat Matteo, Acting Director of the Career Counseling and Placement Center. Students were able to discuss career goals and inquire about the various careers that were represented. The recruiters offered information about the indivi<lual prof.essions and described specific job openings available in the coming year. They also advised students on possible career paths and the preparation necessary for each. The majority of the representatives participated in the program for recruitment purposes, commented M~tteo, and came, .for the most part, from the Northeastern region. They explained to students the processes involved in applying .for positions in their particular companies. In a number of cases, students we.re given business cards and were asked to send a reswne. The festival was sponsored by the Schenectady County Chamber of Commerce and the Hudson Mohawk Association of Colleges and Universitites. It lasted from approximat~ly 10:30 until 4:30 and, according to one student there, the representatives were ''very informative and easy to talk to.\ Matteo typified the attitude of the Career Center when remarking that she was \ex- tremely pleased\ with the turnout of both the festival and the Career Panels. The dis.cussion panels, in contrast to the festival, were held over a period of days and constituted a new program for the Career Center. The panels, according to both Matteo and a student who was involved, were a success and will \definitely be Salaries- Defined By DOUG LANDON News Editor Editor's note: The following article is the third installment in a 'series on College finances. This segment deals with faculty .salaries and the basis for their determination. · Although Union has no actual scale by which to increase faculty salaries &imply by rank, there does exist a definite system for determining raises in earnings. . ·· Annually, the College must decide exactly how much money shall. be spent for salary increases. This figure is a fact6f of the College'J; financial situation at the time and in- flation rate during the preceding year. ·A certain number of \merit steps'' (which carry a predetermined value) are given out to deser- ving faculty, in addition to an across-the-board cost of living raise, according to Dwight S. Wolf, Assistant to the Vice President for Acadeinic Affairs. A faculty member may achieve merit steps by meeting stan- dard c.dteria based on in- dividual evaluation. Such evaluations consist of perceived judgments on the person's teaching! scholarly . research, and service to the College, said Wolf. The following were the average Union faculty salaries in 1981-82, as priQted in Academe, a publication of the American Association of University Professors: full professors, $33,600; associate professors, $25,000; · assistant professors, $18,400; instructors, $16,600; and overall faculty average, $25,800. Salary in- crease averages in the various categories over 1980-81 were from 11 percent to 14.1.percent. Wolf stresses that all of these figures are strictly averages. The positions of the department chairs are honorary and do not directly increase one's ear- nings. In 1970; Union put into effect a rule allowing no more than 60 percent of faculty at any given timeto be tenured. Normally, at such institutions, faculty members are not kept over seven years without being granted tenure. It was deter- mined in 1973 that if Union was to maintain this practice, tenured faculty would total over 60 percent. With this in mind; a new system was developed whereby those who have been in .tenure track positions for more than the seven years are given \long term tenurable con- tracts\ until openings arise, according to Wolf. This year, 53 percent of those with potential tenure have it. Not all facUlty are tenurable, though.As Wolf explains, if enrollment in a particular department is expected to drop in the near future, a visiting professor may be hired with no long term contract obligations. Likewise, . the same may be done if a department suddenly finds itself with a sudden in- crease in students, but it is not anticipated . that the large numbers will last. Presently, Union employs 150 full-time faculty members. done again.'' This year, the Center included faculty members in the panel discussions to offer a link between what the panel members discussed and what Union has to offer in relation. The Center also included in the program student moderators who introduced each panelist and fielded questions during the discussions. Each panelist spoke for five or ten minutes about his or her particular job. They described how they en- tered into the career, how they advanced once in the profession, and gave advice to students interested in following their paths. The individual speeches were followed by a question and answer period. Afterward, students were able to talk to the panelists in- dividually, and inquire about summer job opportunities and internship programs. The panel discussions offered were careers in business, the arts, computer science, com· munications, the sciences, education, public relations- advertising, government-public affairs, and engineering. There - were also workshops on in- ternships and job search strategies, and one additional program was entitled \Career Options for the liberal Arts Majors.'' The student moderators involved in the program were Linda Wallen, Carol Hemretta, Cheryl Elsworth, Christene Tepe, Ann Keetz, Mary Ann Sciortino, and Rich Mintz. Attendance was strong ac- cording to Matteo. Approximately 200 students went to the panel discussions and \several hundred'' at- tended the Career Festival. Matteo continued by describing the Festival as \crowded all day long and it was the best turnout we've had.\ Students are encouraged to participate in the programs sponsored by the Career Center. Those who have participated in the past describe them as in- formative and beneficial. The next program offered by the Career Center is the annual Career Observation Days held in December. Students involved in this program have the op- portunity to spend a day at work with an alumnus in a career field of the student's choice. They will be held on Dec.. 14, 15, and 16, in New York City. Sign up for this program on Nov. 15, 16 and 17 at the Career Center. An additional program for students will be the New York Telephone Visitational Day, in which students spend a day at Bell Telephone in New York City in order to get an overview of a large corporation and business organization. Matteo concluded by urging students to sign up for the programs, and she explained that more information will be distributed through the campus mail in the next few weeks.

Page 4. OONCORDIENSIS, November 4, 198~ f Ostrom Appointed [CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS Continued from page 2 food service as a whole, in~ eluding West College, Hale House, the Pub and the Skellar, is very much a professional organization.\ Concerning his own staff, which consists of fourteen fulltime employees in addition to the student help, he said that he \never worked with a greater staff as far as care and responsibility.'' \We are striving to serve a consistently good product.\ This is a well balanced meal that appeals to abnost ev~ryone. \It is impossible to please everyone. •• On the average there are more than 450 students eating at West College for both lunch and dinner. At lunch there will usually be 100 to 125 students between 11:30 a.m. and 12: n p.m, and ap- proximately 350 students served between 12: 15 .p.m .. and 1:00 p.m. He said that with such a volume in the rast forty minutes of. lunch the ~ervice is not goi~g to be as go()d as during the first hour. Still, '\'we are trying to please as rnany people as possible.'' ''We are sympathetic to the students' :needs. We want · to continually apgrade our quality,'' Craig $Bid. He added that be carmGt know what the students want unless they speak to him. ''I am always open to new ideas. I want to hear what the students have to say. My door is alw~ys open.\ ------------··~; Administration and .Engineering Systems Colloquium SPEAKER: Kenneth J. Majcen, Director, Personnel Assistance Program, Ernst and Whinney TOPIC: \A Program for Employee Crisis· Counseling\ DATE: Thurs., Nov. 4, 3:45 pm ·PLACE: Room 205, Baile.y UHall Stepping up its program to help people qQit smoking, the Ameri()ara Cancer Society has issaed a· coordinated package of new materials called Freshstart. The Fresbstart program i.s designed for four group.sessions taking place over a two-week period. It is an active, pragmatic approach to quit smokin~. Facilitator Peggy Sixteen students from colleges all over the country can ,ghare the ex;citement of SEAm ester, an innovative program developed by Southampton College of Long Island University, whj.ch em- barkson a 2,000 mile blue-water voyage of adventure and discovery for eight weeks each Spring and Fall semester. Students can earn up to 16 credits as they sail aboard the \Appledore u an 85 foot gaff- rigged schooner built in Maine in 1978 · on the lines of a traditional New England coaster; which sailed the world on her maiden voyage, logging over 27,000 miles in 18 months. Six courses are offered during the voyage, of which students choose four; Literature of the Sea, Maritime History, Field. Work in. Coastal Eclogy, Natural History of the Atlantic and Caribbean Coast, The City of Albany, along with other local communities have ••••••••••••••••••••••• proClaimed November 5th as Emergency Shelter Day in Photographs for last weeks cover page were contributed by photo staff members Jonathan Heimer and Larry Shopiro. recognition of the increasing number of homeless .persons and the agencies that shelter thern. As part of a continuing program t() focus atteQtion on the housing crisis facing the -RECRUITI:NG SIGN-UP CHANGE Sign-ups for Genera I Electric and Turner Construction will be held on Tuesday, November 30, 10:30 a.m. and 2:30p.m., respectively. Internships- Fellowships Central Intelligence Agency--1983 &raduate Studies Program. Summer internship for students who will be attending graduate school during Fall 1983. Work in areas such as economics, political.and strategic researc;h, engineering, law, international relations, languages, psychology, and medicine. Deadline: December. Information available at the Career Center. '\ - Eastman-Kodak Company--Professional Summer lnt~rnship Program. Available to students of Engineering, Science, Computer Science, or Business who are within one year of ccmpleting a Bachelor's Degree, or are at any level of graduate study. Information available at the Career Center. ' National Wildlife Federation--Resources Conservation. Internships. Primarily for college graduates, or fer outstanding undergraduates. High degree of academic ability, maturl.tyl motivation and responsibility required, Research and communication abilities necessary. Deadlines: November 19 (for January); AprilS (fer July). Information ava·ilable at the Career Center. State Bank of Albany--Summer Intern Program. Open to those who will have completed their junior year. 14-week program with special training in accounting, audit, branch administration, investment, loan qr trust divisions. Deadline: March 31. Information avai(able at the Career Center. Careers in Communications-Advertising Conference Pace University,New York City, Saturday, November 13,8 a.m.-5 p.m. Designed to give women and men one-to-one iob exploration with professionals in Advertising, Commu11ications and allied fields. In· formation available at the Career Cen1er. Careers in the Retail Industry Wednesday, November 10,3 p.m., 4ttl Floor Lounge, Carnegie. If you ·think\ retailing is just fashion~ tllink again!\ Retailing Is a large, sophisticated business whl.ch presents tf:le challenge of anticipating and planning for constant change in styles; trends and attitudes. It involves managing thousands of customer accoun1s and moving millions of dollars on merchandise to the right place at the right time. Retail careers cover areas such as merchandising, finance, sales, and production. management. Rich Gibney, of Abraham & Strauss,. will present a videotape program and discussion of careers in the retail industry for interested students of all mafors and class years. Sign up In tin Career Center in advance. Kegley -will conduct the fifSt Freshstart session offered by the American Cancer SoCiety Schenectady County Unit an<l Union College on November 8, 10, 15, 18, and an opt.onal session on the. 22nd; at Carnegie , HaH from '1:00 p.m. to 8:30p.m. The sessions have such topics as ''Understanding Why .and How\ Pre-registration iS required Ichthyology, and Navigation and Seamanship .are taught as the Appledore wi~ds its way from Miami, past the Old Bahama Passage,. to Cap Jiaitien in Haiti where students climb the fabled Citadel. After wveck diving on what may be .Columbus' \Santa Maria,\ reef. diving at Caicos and Grand Turks Island, an expedition to the . legendary :'black holes\ of Uttle Inagua m Bahama and a . site ex- plor~tion of the saltworks in Great Inagua, students will experience history come alive and ecology as more than a textbook word. A sctiba wall dive at San Salvador and the study of barrier island ecology at St. Marys,. Georgia, is followed by a visit to Duke Univ-ersity's famed Marine Laboratory and the Hamptons Mariners Museum in Beaufort North Carolina. other ports of A Press Conference will be held 1: 30 p.m. on November 5th at the Project Equinox Youth Shelter, Dongon Street, Albany, New York (In Pastures). Local dignitaries and agency representatives will be prtlsent to discuss the local situation nation during the 1980's~ the National Association of Home Builders is sponsori,ng a national essay contest. Under the theme, ''What do you e.xpect in terms of location, density, design and financing in tomorrow's homes and how will these affect your life~tyle?\ students. are encouraged to express tbeir feelings about how the economy and the housing market will affect their lives. The rules are simple: -500-1,000 words, typewritten. -Must be a registered full- time college student to enter. -All entries to te submitted to the National Association of Home Builders, Public Affairs- Student Program, 15th & M Street, Washington, D.C., 20085. -Winners will be selected by an independent panel of judges After a hiatus of three years cal.iSed by the difficult and unstable political situation in Poland, Union students will again be able to visit health care institutions in Eastern Europe. The· Socialized Medicine program was originally con- ceived. and developed by Professor Robert.Baker whose interest in the history of medicine and the contrast between American health care systems and those in countries with a socialist system, prompted him to design the term. The original concept involved an overview of SQcialized Medicine from four different perspectives, the United States, England Sweden, and Poland. After the summer of 1980, when the Polish segment was aborted, the program excluded Eastern Europe and concentrated on EnJ{land and Sweden. New York, N.Y.-The Coro Foundation is looking for men and women with a demon .. · strated leadership capability and individuals witb a dedication to public affairs. Each year Corp awardS 36 post- graduate feUowships for the through the . Schenectady County Unit office, ·1596 Rugby Road, or Patricia Little, R.N. resident nurse, Health Services' Silliman Hall, between th~ hours of 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Smoking Sam . will be on display on Wednesday, November 3 and Thursday, Novembe.l' 4 between 12;00 and . 1:00 p.m. in the Banquet Room · of Carnegie, call include Newport News, Mystic Seaport, Nantucket and Block Island before th~ student sailors dls.embark ln o Sag Harbor, having had the ex:- .perience of a lifetime. As Douglas Hardy, who has ·led aU thirteen Southampton College SEAmesters, eom· mented in an article in Newsday, \.For $3,700 tuition, there's ·room and board, ad~ venture, an£l up to 16 credit&, And, by the end of the trip, they'll have learned celestial navigation and the . use of a .sextant. They'U be able to handle the sbip pretty well. This is the realthing.\ For .more·· information or a,ppliea:tion for the spring i983 or fall 1983 voyages, contact Southampton Golleege's SEAmester Office, Southamp- ton College, Southampton, New York 11968. involving the homeless, which is becollling a significant social problem. Coverage of this event is apprechtted and would be newsworthy. If you have any questions, please contact me at 489-4791. and notified during the last week in December. . -At the determinatiori of the judges, prizes will be awarded as follows: . First Prize: $1,000 cash award. ·second Prize: $750 cash award. · Third Prize:·$500 cash award. First, Second and Third prize winners will be flown to Washington for presentation of cash awards and plaques at a date to be determined. All manuscripts become the property of the National Association of Home Builders and the rights of publication become -solely theirs. For more information, contact Lucille J. Losurdo, NAHB Public Liaison Depart- ment at (800) 368-5242, ex- tenSion 473. SUmmer 1985 will expand the Eastern European segment of the program even beyond its origin/:\1 scheme. The College has arranged one-week programs in Budapest, Hungary, and East Berlin in the G DR. Students will visit health care· institutions and hear talks by authorities on health care systems in each of these socialist countries. There will also be a weekend stopover in Prague, Czechoslavakia. Along with the medical tours, several cultural events and visits are planned: city tours, concerts, museums, beer halls, and even a night at the circus. Union COllege was the first undergraduate institution to introduce a study tour of socialized medicine into its curriculum, and the College is pleased to be able to return to the original. concept .of com• paring different types of socialized system$. study of the interrelationshipS between the public and private sectors. A representative from the Coro Foundation will be on· campus November 30 to in· terview for the l982 .. 83 Fellowship year. • - • it 51 Ill th N< p~ re to st1 sil a Fi Ct pr Nc on tb~ of an ch to J ch~ th\ of· doi the thr res fift Ne• Pol Ari Na• She Na1 and wri 0 res oft bel Jul ten bet, Ind gov divi fore trib was hapi was her and pro~ terv SUC( Voc; ham Affa hav· relo1 c Ro Histc be sp A Hl 2:00 Roon Pr1 numt the~ on h theJ has·, Bebr for ~ has a Rist(

Rugby R.N Services' th~ be . . on and Room · News, and student . jn o Sag the ex. has com.- in tuition, ad~ credits. trip, of a to This or i983 contact 's New is social is be any me at e last cash cash ward. prize n to i.on of at a e .the lonal lders ation tion, rdo, >art- ex- the t of its ege eek ~st, the tlth lks U'e 1se ~ill in ng ~al re ts, en st to Jf ts is :o I• .f )S ;e OONOO~DIENSIS, November 4~ 198! Page .fi , 'FEATURES A Real Indian Summer By KATHY I{EAVENEY Staff Haveyoueverwondered what it would be like to spend a 5 wnmer living .and working witb people of another culture? If you ha~e, . the . person you shQuld talk to 1s Polly Wheeler. Polly is· a senior anthropology major. Her special interest is the study and research of . Native Arnerlcan cultures. She particularly enjoys . field research experience and plans to spend her life living wlth and studying these people. Polly spent last summer studying the Navaho Indians in a program called \Summer Field Training Experience in Cultural AnthropOlogy~··· The program was spon~red ~y Northwestern University and IS one of three .such programs in the United States. Polly was one of nine undergraduate students · and she graduate students chosen from ninety applicants to the program. · After the participants were chosen, each one sent - Nor- thwestern an outline of the type of work they w.ere interested in doing. The pro~ram advisers then .found positions for them throughout the Navaho reservation, which covers over fifteen million acres in Arizona, New MeXico, Utah and Nevada. Polly worked in Windrock, Arizona as a writer for the Navaho Land Dispute Office. She WI'ote primarily for non- Navaho public understanding, and did a great deal of technical writing. . . · One Qf Polly's primary respmisibilities was to write all of tbe lobby material for a trial held in Washington, D.C. on July 13. The trial was an at- tempt to settle a )and dispute between the Navaho and Hopi Indian tribes. The federal government had pr.e:viously divided the disputed land and forced many Indians of both tribes to relocate. The result was that. neither tribe was happy. This work experience was valuable to Polly because her assignemnt was to study and, compare relocation programs. 'fo do this, she in- terviewed Indians who had been successfully relocated in a Vocational Training program handled by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, as well as Indians who have been unsuccessfully relocated by the government settlement of the land dispute. R,esearch and comparison has led Polly to conclude that the land dispute relocation program was unsuccessful because, \TI.!e ,government has not considered the rights of the people involved. You cannot inflict white man's rights on .another .culture and expect the people to respond and be happy.\ Polly has written the first draft of a paper on the findings of her research and it ·has been approved bY the University. :She is now working on the final draft which will be sent to the. University for ap- ,proval and then also the the Navaho tribe. Polly views her f.ield experience this swnmer as one of the most valuable ex- periences of ber life. She s~ys, ''You cannot imagine the hostility that the Indians have for you just because you are white. You want to apologize for everything that t}.Ie white man has ever done; but you can't. You have to remember that' they don't dislike you per· . sonally; only what . you stand for. It's· very difficult to remember tlfatj when you have only yourself to rely on. It can be very, very lonely.\ Polly feels that the only bad part of her experience this su.mmer was that it was too short. \Just as it came time to leave I finally began to develop relationships with people, and that is what is most important.\ Just as the experience was in some ways tedious, it was also difficult to come home. \Wlille l was on the reservation I had to be very aware and very .£ritical of everything; myself, my actions, my values,. and those of my society. At the same time I had to constantly analyze the culture I was living in. As I was doing this. I began to un- derstand the values and the way of life of 'the- NavahOs and to question my own. Coming home was a. very difficult transiUon. It was very hard to stop analyzing and criticizing everything around me and to readjust toanother way of life.\ Despite the difficulties, her experiences this summer have further strengthened Polly's convictions about her work. \When I came to Union I was a pr&vet major. I'm not sur~ how or why I stumbled onto ~an­ thropology. But I do know that studying other cUltures is ve_nr Chasen Speaks By JOEL STEIN Robert Chasen, Professor of History at Queens College, will be speaking on \Anti-Semitism: A Historian's ·Perspective\ at 2:00p.m. today in the Banquet Room in Carnegie Hall. Professor Chasen has written numerous books and articles on the Middle Ages, concentrating on how world events affected the Jews. For his work, Chasen has been named a Fellow of Hebrew University's Institute for Advanced Studies. Chasen has also wen Ohio Academy of History Publication Award, Ohio State University Award for Distinguished Teaching, to mention a few. Before coming to Queens College, Professor Chasen taught at Tel-Aviv University and Ohio State University ... Chasen was education at Columbia University, where he won the Green Memorial Prize, which is awarded .to the student with the highest academic .standing. Professor Chasen's talk is 'sponsored by 1 J.S.O. Hillel and the Union College History Department. Admission is free; all .are welcome. TYPING· 382-5668 important. I love it, ~nd. 1 want to spend my life doing it.'' Polly will spend this winter in Barbados with Anthropology Professor George Gmelch, doing her thesis work and an independent J)roject. :For her thesis, she will be studying the effects of return migration on adolescence. Her independent _ project will be a ·comparison of Barbadian and Navaho cultures. In the Spring; Polly will.return to Union, finish her degree requirements, and look for a job. While she realizes that anthrQpology is a difficult field to find a job in, she is very optimistic because she has ha,.d so much undergraduate field experience. She hopes to find a job working with a Northern American Indian tribe in Alaska. Eventually, Polly hopes to begin . work towards her Ph.D. in anthropology. -Polly Wheeler spent last summer studying Navaho Indians. s:: 'iii LL. ell !:!! ac: > ..a 0 0 a Through These Gates By MICHELE REIN Staff All of us remember those ·confident-looking, self-assured men and women who led us about the old, ivy-covered buildings of one college or another. Here at Union, we have a special society whose purpose is to lead these tours. The members, who are called Gatesmen, furnish prospective students with factual in- formation, but even more importantly, they communicate the essence of the school. Everyone can read facts about a school from its catalogue, but . it is important to get a true sense of the atmosphere from a student's. perspective'; As Union's representatives, Gatesmen are responsible for accurately conveying what Union stands for and what the student body is like. Because they may have such a strong impact on prospective students they are very carefully selec- ted. Since the Gatesmen is an organization of students, it is basically run by three student coordinators, who are elected in the Fall term. This year's coordinators are Gayle Stein, Gary Lehr, and Michael Klein. Their primary functions are to act as a liason betwe.en the admissions staff and the members of Gatesmen, to chair the selection committee, to deal with the day-to-day problems of scheduling~ and to coordinate activities for the group. The selection process takes place at the end ofWinter ter;m, primarily under the supervision of the student coordinators and a coiillilittee of current Gatesmen. 'Interested students fill out applications and have interviews. Eileen Blutnenthal, the admissions office staff member who works along with the Gatesmen, says, \We do not come up with a formula for the ideal Gatesmen. We look for a diversified group, but- one that will be representative of the student body. The qualities that we seek, though, are motivation', enthusiasm,. sin· cerity, knowledge of the campus, and the . ability to expres.S one's pride and af· fection for Union.\ Ms. Blum~nthal added, '~Because it is stud~nts choosing students, the Gatesmen organization becomes whatever the current students want.\ · There are sixty positions to be filled, but since Gatesmen hold their positions until . they graduate, the number of new members is determined by the number of those who are graduating. Last year there were approximately one hun- dred more applicants than there were available positions. This, however, should not discourage those interested from applying because the committee looks for a diversified group, S() everyone has an equal chance of being selected. Once chosen, the new members of the Gatesmen go through a. period of training. They go on tours with ex- perienced guides to learn the basic rQutes of a tour, and how to respond to typical factual and pressure questions. They also meet with members of the faculty to learn more about the strengths of the various departments and to be updated on campus activities. Eileen Blmnenthal says that she is very satisfied with the members of the Gatesmen organization. She always feels very proud and confident when she turns prospective students and other visitors over to them. She reports that this is the consensus of most of the ad· missions staff. They constantly get positive feedback from visitors, which reassures them that this organization is an effective and well-received one. Gayle Stein, one of the three student coordinators, is also very pleased with tbe organization. She says, ''We feel that our position as Gatesrnen is a very important one, for it allows us to share our pride with anyone who comes to visit us.\ In the future, Gayle Stein says that they would like to make the Gatesmen a more -cohesive group that meets two to three times a term, acts more like a club, and gets together for fun activities as well as for organizational purposes. The Student Philosophy Forum is pleased to annouce a film: Pirandello's Six Characters- in Search of an Author Thursday, November 4 at 7:30 in the Humanities Lounge All are invited After the film presentation there will be a discussion and refreshments will be served.

. ~ . Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS~ November 4, 198S FEATUREs· .,... . Jeff Vandetta and Dave BaHaglla are co.chairmen· of the Traffic and Pet Court. Tragedy: 'TheN an kin Doctrine By MA'IT NANKIN The following is Matt Nankin's FIRST EVER editorial. It was originally broadcast April 4, 1982 and was rebroadcast last Sunday evening in its original form. Since many have asked for copies of it, the article is being printed today for the first time · exactly seven months after it was originally broadcast. wrong place, at the wrong time, with the wrong enemy.\ Let us tceep this war in per- spective. Let's say that El Salvador becomes communist. So we'll· all eat a few less bananas everyday, that's all. We all know that Mexico will· never become communist because The Love Boat would not sail to a conununist' country. Donuts and Friendly Ice Cream. · Once we get these people \Americanized\ they will no longer find communism attractive. A war does not have . to be fought with guns and bombs. Fast-food outlets and shopping centers are much better weapons and save lives too. -This is Matt Nankin with one hombre's opinion. The views and opinions ex- pressed by Mr. Nankin do ·not necessarily represent the opinions of WRUC or Concordy. Traffic aind Pet Court \ Role Reviewed By SUSAN SINGER and LAURASHAPmO . SU.ff The ~l'J.\affic and Pet Court is a committee not aU Uni:on students are familiar With, but one that serves as a . helpful organization for those who have received traffic tickets or pet fines. Dave Battaglia has served as chairman -of the eourt for the past two years, and is presently c9-Chainnan with Jeff Van- detta. Battaglia said that the court handles mostly traffic tickets.. Pe~ rule infractions U$Ually involve pets in the dorms, and are generally taken care of by the reSident advisors involved. · The Traffic and Pet Court consists of s.even members who decide whether traffic tickets given on campus are valid, and . whether the charges should be upheld, lowere(f or dismissed. Those students who receive · traffic tickets may appeal to the -·court within seven days of receiving a ticket if they feel they have been unjustly charged. Traffic tick:ets given on campus are either given for parking or moving violations. Parking violations include parking in a handicapped ~one, obstruction of a fire. lane, parking on the grass, a walk or a driveway, or parking in an improper lot. Moving violations include reckless driving, speeding, driving on grass or a walk, or passing a stop sign. If a student wishes to appeal his or her ticket, he can pick up an ap~~ form from Security~ After flllmg out the form, the student will be' contacted by the Traffic and Pet Court, and 'will be told when to .appear to appeal the charge$~ If a student .does not show up for the appeal, be or · she will automatically have to pay the fine. When the students appear before the court, they state their cases .and are asked questions by · the committee members. 1rhe fines escalate according to the number of offenses acqUired by a given student. The fines start· at $2, and escalate to $5, $10; _ $25 and, finally, deregistration of their car. · The court~s voting procedure is anonymous, and · majority rules. The fine may be\'fowered and still count on the student's record as an infraction. If the charges are Upheld, the student must pay the entire .fine. If the charges are di~missed, the student does not have to pay any fine, and it will .fiat affect the student's traffic record. An appeal to the court does not necessarily result in a dismissal of charges.· Students must have vaUd proof of unjust charges, In regard to the · Traffic and Pet Court, co- chairman Dave BattagUa stated, \when judging people, we have to be fair, consistent and treat similar cases equally.'' El Salvador is a tiny country in Latin America that is about the size of Massachusetts. President Reagan is currently sending military advisers, monetary aid, and other so- called \goodies\ to these El Salvadoreans so that the country will not turn com- munist. All I have to say is \Bad move, Ronald!\ Massachusetts, which is a full- fledged state, needs the money much more and can do more with it. Speaking as a citizen of the state, I know I could use a new car, my father needs a new set of golf clubs, and my mother's dishwasher just broke. I am sure there are others in the state with these or similar needs who would greatly benefit from this money that is being spent; as General Omar Bradley once stated, \to fight the wrong wat', in the If Mexico does not become communist, then the Domino Theory does not apply and the U.S. does not ever have to worry about the Red Menace being on its border. Of course, there is always Canada, but who ever heard of a Candian communist party. Here is yet another point to ponder: The Russians are already a few miles away from us in the Bering Strait up in Alaska! If we are going to worry about something let's worry about that! 'Chess Team Defeated I know that the listening audience is now saying: ''Matt, you and I both know, Ronnie is an old man and is not going to change his mind. There is no fool like an old fool. What is the solution?\ Well, here it is: \The Nankin Doctrine\- All we have to do is offer El Salvador the capitalist, free-enterprise system. I say let these people have Burger. Kings, Radio Shacks, Dunkin Insatiable Review / By ROBERT DRISCOLL nice to dogs and little children. Investigative Reporter Especially the little girls,\ he added. I admit it: I wa·s still in shock- See, doesn't that tell you so -even though I broke. the Dr. much about the man? But wait, Birnbach-Ask The Expert case there's more: nearly three weeks ago. There I \I can't believe it\ said his was, still recovering and with a third grade teacher, Mrs. sure Pulitzer, and my editor Armstrong. \I never expected takes me off the case so I could anything like that frorn Dr. review lllsatfable. I couldn;t Birnbach. He was such an or- believe it. Here I had the hottest derlyyouth; He never pushed or case to hit these pages since shoved while on line, never \Franklin Babbles\ and I was spoke during a fire drill and, taken off the case. Insatiable- best of all, when he clapped an an X-rated movie that won only eraser, he really clapped the d Th 'd e'\as· er 1 .\ seven awar s. ey sat no one • was interested, but I don't What did I tell you? Dr. believe that. I think someone's Birnbach was obsessed with paid a lot of money to have the erasers, an obvious whole case hushed up. That's , foresh~dowing of what was to what Ithink! And !think I know cDme. who it is: Dr. Birnbach banked Look, there's more I could a lot of money in Switzerland; write about Dr. Birnbach's and yet, yesterday. he tried to personality (and Lord knows borrow five bucks from me. But hDW much he'd like me to), but what really bothers me is that I I'm not supposed to do that. interviewed so many of the, Nope, my editor thougb.t more people who kfiew the doctor. people would be interested in His landlord, for instance, smut, in po111ographic garbage, remembers Dr. Birnbach. in something that-and I can't \Yeah I remember hlm,'' Bill stand it-degrades the role of Farrow said. \Dr. Birnbacb-he women everywhere! They always paid his tent, always actually expected me to review _ By SEBASTIAN The Union College chess team lost decisively in both. rounds of last Saturday• s four- team tournament at Albany State, to finish in a disap- pointing last place. Ivan Gjaja playing second board was the lone bright spot for Union, scoring a win and a draw fn two games. In the first round,. the ''Mating Dutchmen'' drew the Schenectady Chess Club, a powerful. squad led by three· experts. Despite being badly overmatched, Union gained good positions on all five boards. The biggest surprise was on board 1, where Richard Biegen developed a very strong position against former Master Carl Adame!, the highest rated player in the tournament. Playing a complicated variation of the Sicilian defense, Biegen simplified to a com- fortable endgame, only to miss the winning move. His position weakened but he had no trouble gaining a draw. Meanwhile, on board 2, Gjaja also managed a draw. But 'George Paik, Tom Hiebel, and John Liggion, boards 3, 4, and 5 respectively were all out-played bytheir highly-rated opponents, eventually losing. sec therefore won the match 4 to 1, Insatiable, as though it was a cla.Ssic. How absurd! It really wasn't that good, anyway. The all ne~ ASK THE EXPERT Watch for it • • . but Union played m11<:h better than could be eXpected, con- sidering Schenectady's power house team. In the second r.ound, Union faced Albany State, losers to Potsdam State. On a good day, Union should be able .to beat Albany, but this was not a good day for the Dutchmen. Apparently most of the players were fatigued froll}. the first round, especially Biegen, whose 65 move4 hour first round battle ended only minutes before his second round match. Playing against Albany's captain, he blundered early and res~gned after only 18 moves. Liggio and Hie bel were ahead in material, but both made mistakes and lost. Paik also started well before-: losing, leaving G]aja alone on board 2 to defend the team's honor, Through steady maneuvering, Ivan increased the pressure on his opponent, and finally won, for Union's only victory of the day. Albany won the match, 4-1. The School of Law at Western New England College Springfield, Massachusetts will be,represented by Professor James w. Gordon on ·Monday, November 8 from 10 a.ma - 12 noon at Interviewing R.in .. , .career Center union College We encourage attendance by interested students, inc1udinq women,minority,and handicapped-students .. AJ ~~ ~- CINE AI La,t4 F: -mid T1 at 1 E. at 1 N 5:11 Jt 8:-3( CINEI Fll Fil MOHA ll; &S M A Sun RKO Tl

.. the p.peal does or to they sked ittee ~ding and and, ~ure the ~ent the the any the a just the co- pie, y's es. so 2 on OONOOBDJENSIS, November 4, 198S • ·ruE ARTS MOvie· Clock Arts Calendar CINE 1·2-.3~ .(45g.;aaOO) NOV. 4, 5, 8--ROMEO AND JULIET. The Egg, 10a.m. (11-5- 8 p.m.} $5 & $3. 473-3750. An Officer and aGentleD)an .(l't) Daily at 1:40, 4:15, 7:05, 9.:40. NOV. 4-7, 9-14, 16·21--SEA .MARKS. Capital Rep., Market Theatre, 8 p.m. (except Sunda.ys at 2: 30), $6-$11.. 4.62-4534. . , Late show Fri. & Sat. at midnight. FirsUUood {R) 'DailY at 2, 4, 6, 8, 10. Late show Fri. & Sat. at midnight NOV. 4-7, 10-14--.FANN.Y. Albany Civic Theatre, .a p.m. (exce.pt 11-7 & 14--2: 20), $5. 462-1297. . Tron. (PG) Daily at 1:15, 3, 4:45,6:55, 9~ Late show Fri. & Sat. , at 11. 'NOV. 4m7--BA~NUM. Proctor's, H-4 & 8, B p.m.; 11-6,2 & 8 p.m.;_ll-7, 2 & 7 p.m., $10-$18. 382-1083. NOV .. 12, 18-20--THe PIRATES OF PENZAN.CE, Siena College, 8 p.m., $6. 783-2527. ·E.T. (PCt) Daily at 1:20, 4:05,6:50, 9:30. Late show .Fd. & Sat. NOV. 18, 19, 20·-FlLLlNG SILENCES. Skidmore C,ollege, 8 p.m. (also ll-20, 2 p.m.). 584-500, ext. 347. . . . ' - - ' . National.Lampoon's Class Reunion (R) Daily af 1:35, 3;25 5:15,7:35,9:50. Late show Fri. & Sat. at 11:45 . JtCameFromHollywood (PG) Daily at l:2{), 3:05, 4:50,6:30. 8:30. Late Show :Fri. & Bat. at 10:30. Deportment of the Arts presents CINEMA '7 (785-1625) First Blood (R) Daily at 7:30,-9:30.Sat. 8t Sun. at 2, 7:30,.9;30. First Blood (R) Daily at 7:30,9:30.Sat. & Sun. at 2, 7.:30, 9:30. , I Lunchtime Harpsichord Concert Series MOHAWK MALL 1·2-3 (370..1920) Halloween III: The Season of the Wltc.b \(R) Daily at 8, 10. Sat. & Sun. at 2, 4, 6, 8, 10. • :M:onsigJior (R) Daily at 7, 9:30. Sat.&: SW1. at 1:30, 4, 7, 9:30. An OffiCJer aud a Gentleman (R) Paily at 7:15, 9:45. Sat. & Sun. at 2, 4:30, 7:15, 9:45. RKO FOX COLONIE 1 & 2 (459-1020) Monsignor (R) Daily at 7, 9:3(). Sat. & Sun. at 2, 4:30, 1; 9:30~ by Hugh Allen Wilson Every Wed. Afternoon, 12:45uJ: 15 p.m. Nov. 10 and 17 Memorial Chapel The public is cordially invited to attend .. The Chosen (PG) Daily at 7, 9:15. Sat. & Sun. at 2,.. 4, 6, 8, 10. i{ The DutchHoBow Pub .?l( Dutch Hollow Pub will be open for Four seatings on Saturday night for Dutchman's Night. The seatings wll be 4:30, 5:00, 6:30 and 7:30 p.m. l Reservation$ for Saturday 'Nights will b.e taken on Wednesday and Friday aftemoons between the hours of 1 and 4:30 at the ticket booth, Camegie Hall. RESERVATIONS ARE REQUIRED TO PARTICIPATE! Dutchman's Night is available to 19-meal plan holders twice a month, and to 14 and 10-medl plan holders once a month. Don't Forgett!! Make reservations You don't have to feel left out if early, bring your meal car:d and 1.0 .. you're not on a meal plan. We'll anp prepare to enjoy yourself!!! gladly accept cash r.eservations too. ' . Coming Next Week Southside Johnny & The Jukes, Gary U.S. Bonds and The Dads --Interview and Review- Record ~op At The Pub Compiled by Larry Shapiro -TOP 10- 1. Rock the ,Casbah-Mustapha Dance .. The Clash 2. Dahcing in Heaven--Q-Feel 3. Situation-- Yazoo 4. Do Ya Wanna .Funk--Patric Cowl!:ly featuring Sylvester 5. Goody Two Shoes--Adam Ant 6. Genius of Love--Tom Tom Club 7. The Message--Grand Master Flash & the Furious Five 8. Hungry Like the Wolf··Duran Duran 9. Rock This Town--Stray Cats 10. Da Da Da-- Trio Help keep the newest dance music . on this list by coming to the PUB to DANCE . every Thursday, 10-1 p.m. Educational center T.EST PREPARATION- , SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 For Information About Other Centers In More Than 85 Ma!or us Cities & Abroad Outside NY State CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223·1782 _..APRIL EXAM CLA-SSES ON CAMPUS A.lbany Center 163 Delaware Ave. 439-8146 · Delmar, NY \ ..

i • I Page 8 OONOORDIEN818, November 4, .1981 THE ARTS The Concert Band- Forgotten Sounds? By ROBIN MOLELLA Staff When one thinks of musical organizations at Union, one immediately thinks of the Glee Clubs, Cabaret and the Jazz Ensemble as groups that provide .showcases for musical talents. Recently however, there have been strange sounds coming from Memorial Chapel that do not originate from any of these groups. The sounds come from a group that formed a year ago called the Un1on College Concert Band. The Band has given in- strumental musicians another forum to display their talents. It plays music of all periods. Some pieces are classical and some are arrangements of the music, ftom popular Broadway musicals. Michael Baker, who studi'ed clarinet with Gerald Zampino of the Syracuse Symphony Orchestra and received her bachelor -of music degree in Music Education from the . Crane School of Music, SUC Potsdam. Micki, as she is af- fectionately called by the band members, has said that she is proud of the.· group and its growth and improvement over the past year, especially since the majority of its members are not music majors. She says that she has to remind herse1f that almost everyone in the group has to put music second to their scholastic endeavors. The concert Band has scheduled its first concert performance for November 13, at 7:30 p.m; in Memorial Chapel. The concert :promiSes to · be an enjoyable one .. Admission l DILLY JOEL BARRY MANILOW BOB SEGER STEVIE NICKS RICK SPRINGFIELD NEIL DIAMOND PATBENATAR ALABAMA STEVIE WONDER LUlHOR VANDROSS JACKSON BROWNE JOHN COUGAR NEIL YOUNG GENESIS JOURNEY SOFT CELL ROBERt PLANT STRAY CATS Anyone intere_sted in writing for· THE ARTS Contact Roberta at 6658 or Glenn Cit 6820 LAST Union College Mountebanks _ Pr.sents REBEL Nov. 11-1.4, 18-21 Good seats still available at Nott Memorial Box Office and Carnegie B.ox. Office For Reservations Call 370-61 53 Don't Miss Ouff - ( rn at C< •SJl JN m te: bt ~ d• di w~ se ·()f tr < cc pi e;,. fa h( fr til be w it h4 a1 cc e1 a: ti rr b D a: h rc J. d a f< tl p n

·- ••• OONQQQIBNJIB. Novemfmr ,4. 198B Pye g College Asbestos RemOval I Racist Editorial I {CPS) ... Linda Peters, a ·staff member of the business school at the University of 'Maryland's College Park CIUJlpUS, had to spend a week tJlis summer packing the departlnent up; and moving it to . templ)tacy quar- ters on .another floor of the building. . . Then, several days later, in a scene reminiScent of ''E.T.,\' d.econtamination workers 1 dressed in protective suits and wearing air filtration masks sealed off the bU$iness school offices. Tile 35 especially- trained workers themselves coW.d enter only if they wore protective garb. They had to exit. through a decontamination facilitY after being thoroughly · hosed down. They were pusy removing from the area what had been there all along.: asbestos. ''lt (the asbestos) never bothered me that much to begin with,\ Peters says.\But I ·guess it's better to ge!_the stuff out of here.\ , But it bothers administrators at'Maryland and.dozens of other colleges across the ~ountry enough to start very expensive asbesto!ll removalprograms at a' time wben they're all short of money. · \Of everything we susp.ect of being. cancerous, we have the most extensive infonnation on asbestos directly linking it to lung cancer · and other respiratocy problems, ' 1 a~erts John Hooga~er, physical plant director at Rockford College and a member of a special task force establiShed to investigate the college campus asbestos problem. _ Asbestos can also lead to mesotheaoma, a usually fatal ACROSS DOWN 1 Evaluate 1 Cheer 5 Snatch 2 Exist 9 Once around 3 Chinese a track pagoda 12 Islands. off 4 Angers respiratory disease, .and asbestosis, which is sbnilar to . black lung di3ease, Hoogakker says. Health isn't the tonly reason campuses nave. begun the clean· UP job in increasmg numbers the las_t two years. \It's important for the people presently exposed to asbestos, but it's alsp important for ten years from now when. · (ad- -rninistrators) might faQe. a · class-action suit from the class of '62, '' Hoogakker explains. People are indeed suing over exposure to asbestos. The giant Manv.ille Corp., which manufactures as-be.stos, recently filed for protection under bankruptcy laws because of an estimated $52 million Wurth of lawsuits filed against it. \To our knowledge, there haven't been any suits. filed agalnst schools regarding exposure ta asbestos,\ .reports Paul Benkert, a researcher for the National Association · of College and University Attorneys. · \But if there are any in the future, a lot will depend on wf:lat actions the schools take now to identify and ·control the problem.\ Hoogakker agrees that, if and when former students start .suing their~ colleges, legally ''ut'll be as important to docpment that you didn't have asbestos as it is that you took care of. the problem.\ No one really knows the full extent of· the health hazard or the legal liabilities. \These diseases, \ Hoogakker notes, \have a latency period of 20-to- 30 years before they show up. We won't know the real effects Ireland 5 Jade or lime CROSS· WORD PUZZLE 13 Uhus~;~al 6 Sun god 14 Money of 7 Skill yore 8 Lager 15 Funeral car 9 Yearned 17 Tellurium 10·Region symbol 11 Detent 18 Recent 16 Plot 19 High .cards 20 Imply 21 Royal 22 Teutonic 23 Dunker's deity delight 23 Let fall 27 Note of scale 24 Rows 28 Street show 25 Chaldean 29 Op·ening city 31 Obstruct 26 Lab.el 34 Conjunction 30 Pincers 35 Import in a 32 Teen prob- way lem 38 Cerium 33 Reward symbol 36 Southwest- 39 Greek letter 41 Summer, in Paris 42 Goodnight girl of song 44 Negative 46 Held in high regard 48 Tardier 51 Semester 52 Mature 53 Near 55 Stage Whispers 59 Metal 60 Capuchin monkeys 62 Ripped 63 Brick-carrier 64 Undiluted 65 Sicilian volcano -· WE DEUVER- 374-1888 FROM COLLEGE PRESS SERVIC.E ern Indian 37 Hermit 40 Pian 43 Printer's measure 45 Diphthong 47Piague 48 Narrow strip of wood 49 Exchange premium 50 Grate_\ 54 Greek letter 56 Speck 57 Sea eagle 58 Red dr Coral 61 Negative ' prefix asbestos has had on students, faculty, and staff for another decade.\ · But ,everyone .agrees the material is in a lot of campus buildings constructed between 1950 and tbe Jliid~19760s. 11 Asbestos is found in. sch~Ls as. pipe ins~ation, fireproofmg material and most. commonly as acoustical insulation on c~ilings and walls,\ :says Environmental .Protection Agency (EPA) spokesman Dave Mayer. \So asbestos can · be found all around school buildings . in areas such as gyms, ·cafeterias, hallways, clas~:~rooms and libraries.\ Asbestos was most commonly used in ccmstruc.tion projects through the. 1960s. Con- sequently, older buildings are the ones most likely to be laced With the stuff. Yet pinpointing it. isn't easy, . The EPA and the Dept. of ··Education are jointly spon• soring a project to help schools find it .. \Right now we're involved in-- identifying asbestos problems and providing information and technical assistance,'' Mayer explains. Virginia, for example, is spending $250,000 to remove · asbestos from its dorms. Officials eXpect to spend a sinlUar amount next year to purge other campus facilities of asbestos. The University of Alabama- Huntsville spent $60,000 last year to remove asbestos ceiling tiles from one oUts dorms, and will probably spend. a total of $100,000 to finish the campus clean-up program, reports spokesman Joseph Dowdle. ''We've already spent . s.omewhere around a million dollars for asbestos projects,'' ,say.s. William Horsey of Maryland's physical plant - department. \And we still have $1.5 to $2 million worth of work yet to do.'' It presents a terrible money problem for most colleges. The federal government's help is also limited. \Until we get funding and · mandatory removal programs, {technical assistance) is as far as we can go,\ says tl)e EPA's Mayer. AlbuqJJ,rque, NM (CPS)-A week after the College· Board nervously released minority student scores on the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT), an editorial about the scores in the University of. New Mexico Dally Lobo has inflallled campus raCial tensions, sparked a sit-in at the newspaper office; brought on. the resignation of one. editor, and, may cost another her job. The editorial, which appeared in the October 13th edition, was called ''Discrimination Is Sometimes DesiraQle,\ and . went on to say . that the high sch.ool class of 1981's SAT scores \proved what everyone knew all along.: minorities are academically inferior to whites.\ The day after the editorial appeared, a dozen_ campus groups began a siMn at the Lobo offices, pledging to stay until news editor and editorial writer Mark Balzak and editor Marcy McKinley resigned, Balzak resigned soon after the sit-in began, and the Student Publications Board temporarily s.uspended McKinley until she readied her defense. The week before the College Board, which administers the SATs and other standardized tests, released scores arranged \by ethnic group\. for the first time. \There's been an honest controversy on the board for th~ ten years we've been collected the_ information about whether to release it to the public,\ says College Board spokesman Fred Moreno. . In a preface to the report, board President George Hanford wamed the statistics \lend 'themselves to misin• terpretation.\ \We know that any data can be used irresponsibly,'' Moreno adds. The report skowed that the white college-bound high school seniors of 1981 got .higher scores than most other ethnic groups. Asian-Pacific American students got the highest math scores. Black students scored lower than the other siX racial and . ethnic groups. The data showed scores closely tied to par~nts' incom~ level and educational level. In ~teneral, the poorer the student's family, the worse he or she scores. Perhaps in anticipation of a political reaction to the release of .the scores, the College ·Board followed the report up with a press release showing how dramatically black stu(lents' scores have gone up Since 1971, and how significantly that rise\ contributed to the overall in· crease iri SAT average scores in 1981. ''We felt it was important to point out that, for example, black students' · rate of score improvement is much higher than white students',\ Moreno says. · The board ultimately decided to release the data because \of the number ofrequests(for the information) we get from researchers,\ because ''of the charges of secrecy often leveled at the College Board,\ and · because the data \reinforce the board's position that, in order to increase access to education, this country's going to have to do something about making up the deficit in the educational experiences of minority students.\ The risk of \someone misusing the data -~ and someone always will- was outg weighed by the gains,\ he says, noting New Mexico's case was the onlyone he knew of. At New Mexico, the editorial • 'succeeded in offending everybody across the board,\ says 'University News Bureau Manager Janis Nichols. Nichols attributes the editorial to a \lapse of common intelligence\ by writer Blazak and ''mismanagement and incompetence\' by editor McKinley, who had no jour- nalistic experience before being named Lobo editor last spring. \The very fact she didn't see the editorial before it was published is proof of in- competence,\ Nichols asserts. NEC NEC Information Svstems,lnt:~ APC™ is the high-resolution solution to your personal computer needs ' Any way you figure it, the NEC APClM Advanced personal Computer equals better'price/performance than any personal computer an the market. Extraordinarily high resolution 8 x 19 dot matrices display graphics capabilities that run circles. elipses and sine waves around the competition. Available in bath 128K and 256K bytes of user memory, the APC supports both the CP/M-86 operating system from Digital Research . and MSDDS from Microsoft. For scientific and engineedng applications, a 32-bit floating-point arithmetic processing unit is available. Come to Lela for a full demonstration and we'll show you our APC's • Monochrome and color displays • Two-million bytes of floppy disk storage · and software -.'

I ' ' I Page 10 CONOORDIENBIS, November ..t, 198S U) .c u Ia tJ) . w ~ > .Q ~ -8 <JlnliOlrbirnsis FountkJ at Union College 1817 ----~----~- ------------ Too Much, Too Late The Finance Committee is setting a .poor precedent. Take the case of WRUC. The College radio station was called before this arm of the Student Forum to review their budget this past Tuesday. Over two thousand dollars w:as trimmed from their funds. The original WRUC budget was approvetl by both the Committee and the Forum in the first week of the term. Rumor has it that the Finance Committee has dug themselVes into a hole that they may not be able to crawl out of. With a number of groups yet to be funded, have they overextended themselves? This is a question that must be looked into, but is not pertinent to the issue at hand. By cutting WRUC's budget seven weeks into the term, the Committee has second-guessed itself at the expense of a student organization. It is impossible· for an organization to budget itself if those figures are constantly being changed. The new finance system was designed to encourage efficiency and to promote stability of sorts. The Committee will destroy all that..has been achieved if it throws a monkey wrench into the works. If the· Finance Committee w:ants to allocate funds on a yearly basis, then they. must scrutinize bQdgets at · the beginning of the year and take their job to heart. Otnerwise, they do injustice to those they serve. - Nouveau Cuisine Many a monarchy has fallen because of grumbling stomachs and disgruntled peasants. Let us hop~ that Craig Ostrom and his nouveau cuisine satisfies the finicky tastes of a mob of modern day Jacobins. Otherwise, the man Will join the ranks of Robespierre, carried away by the crowd to his ghastly demise. Not to worry, at least yet. Reports from undercover revolutionaries say things are on the up and up. The infirmary has not seen its first case of ptomaine poisoning. Our Michelin rating has not dropped. The peasants are content. Let them not eat cake, but anchovies and black olives. Concordiensis ·welcomes reader comments LETTERS Thanks From the .Career Center To the Editor: The Career Center staff would .like to extend thanks to all who . helped make the recent \Career Awareness Week\ a success: . student career assistant, student panel moderators, faculty, administrators, alumni, and of course those who attended the week's pr()grams. We would · Uke to- extend special thanks to the Con~ cordlensis~ staff for their · in· valuable help with publiCity, to Robyn Thorpe-Posson .for heJ\ many hours of assiStance, and to the brothers of Phi ·Ganuna Del!a for ·their. contributipns of time and manpower at the Career Festival. · We were delighted with the . response . by thtf Union College community; and sincerely appreciate the efforts of.all who gave of. their time and. ex- . pertise. Pat Matteo J·aneWood SandySpencer Christian Fellowship' Apologizes ' · To the Editor: The Union College Christian Fellowship would like to apologize to those individuals who feel they were hassled. harassed, or inconvenienced in· any way by townspeople from a local church on the afternoon of Friday, October 29. The Union- Cc:>Uege Christian Fellowship did not request these actions nor do we condone thero since they were un- dertaken both without our knowledge .and with_out per- mission from campus authorities. ~- Sincerely, Jeff_Doolittle, President . Charles Scaife,Faculty Advisor Concordiensis, Criticized . To the Editor: Because of recent editorial decisions, many -of them questionable, and pos~3ibly expensive changes in your format, I feel it necessary to make several.~omments. Last week's editorial, entitled \Let's See Action \ in which . . . . you were critical i>f readers' comments, and in which· you then patted yourself on the· back, must be first addressed. I found it absolutely astounding that you would attack your readers because they choose to comment on your product. I woqld like to reri:llnd the editors that it is the right of the reader to be critical of the information given and the method by which that in- formation is presented. A portion of the .paper, \Letter to the Editor,\ is the readers' enclave. Therefore, any im- plication on your part that the community should not \sit on its hawtches and criticize\ is ridiculousness. Constructive criticism should be welcomed .... not refused. What I found even more unbelievable in the past editorial was that you were ignoring the general message of the volume of the comments. The ,facts that \formal ex- pressions of praise ... are few and far between\ and that ''all ' ,..., ' . ' that is found in the letters folder is criticism after criticism'' should tell you something. · There is an obvious message if a significant number of people independently indicate their displeasure in your product. Furthermore, I do not see how criticism can be linked to student involvement in' the paper. Recent conunents were in response to editorial decisions. It was your decision- to priilt, in full, Mr. Sand's article. It was yottr decision to print other controversial ar- ticles. It was yom- decision to include inflammatory editorials. It was your deCision to adjust Concordy's format. It was our decision, as readers, to read your product. After all, a · .captain, who. runs his ship onto rocks, shoUldn't· criticize. the passengers bectu.tse they are unhappy with the' ride.. . . Briefly,: I would like to comment on a relat-ed matter. Recently, Concordy eXpanded its editions to 24 pageso..an in~ · crease of four pages. New · adjustments include huge · pictures on the front page, an ~x:panded national College Press Service section, and UPI . wire service stories. · . A possibly related f~ct is that, according to a ~ember of the Finance ~ommittee., $15,580 has been budgeted to Concordiensfs. for the schpol_year. Would it not seem possible that, d1.te to the expansion, funds would be spent at a higher rate than What the bUdget called for? In fact, the possibility of Concordy run_ning out of furtds, during the early part of Spring t.erm; h:;ts been mentioned by some on the Finance Committee. I contel_la that the expansion is primarily a waste and that my opinion on this matter is also the opinion of many others. I honestly don't see the merit in enlarging photos so that two- thi,rds of a front page is covered. I don't believe most students take the time or energy to read one page .of CPS stories, much less three. I find it mighty hypocritical that only a month after WRUC was· called \a ·horribly_ mi~managed creature\ which uuncontr-ollably go~bles up Student Activity Funds,\ in- fonriation appears which shows Concordy ·possibly gobbling up its own funds for questionable · requirennents. · I challenge you, first, to print this letter in full. Secondly, I · call on you to publicly justify past actions, in a way which is concise, pompous-free, and devoid of self-serving com- . ments. Thirdly, I would like to suggest that information be gathered about students' reactions to each .portion of the paper, as well as suggestions as . to how they want Cc:>ncordy to act and react. Although aU survey methods would not be perfect, a telephone poll or a written survey ·woUld provide some basis as to how the paper should conduct Itself. · Brian Quint Clas~ of 1934 o\Jt~Dti;) 1/o/11~ ~_Lo~ _, - '1Concor ~~~· .,t bltnsts 0.(, i' ;;, ~~ 0~·0 Editors-in-Chief Managblg Editor News Editors Editorial Page Editor Features Editors Arts Editor - Asso'ciate Arts Editor Ct:unpus Page Editors \cl L ~~- \'i... A.J. BrodskY, Dianne Pavacic Julianne Abelman Marcy Burstiner, Doug Landon ·D.C. Owens Judi Lee Chervenak, Norman Birnbach Roberta Rubinstein Glenn Krutoff · MariaManfredonia, Charis RichardS, Cindy J. Tenner National College News Editor Donna Getson Men's Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rick Bapir Women 'sSports Editor Gina Persico Layout Actvisor Peter Mohr Photo Editor Tom Megerian Associate Photo Editors Janet Guilian0 1 Patricia E. Sacks Sports Photo Editor Robert Tang Political Cartoonist David Neiblum Staff . Jay Baruch,. Sharon Bellinson, Jodi Cohen, Scott Collins, Michael DeVito, Kathy DuffY., VadimE., Susan Engel, Tim Enswiler, David Fitzgerald,.Lou George, Cathy Gifford, Janice Glidden, Kathy Keaveney, TedKendris, Robin King, Tracy LaMarca, Tim Lowry, Matt Nankin. Michelle Novelle; Joat:1 O'Connor, NancyPettinella, Michelle Novelle, Michele.Rein, Leslie Rhubin, Franklin Schneider, Laura Shapiro, Susan Singer, - BobVan Voris, SherryWeitzen, ScottWykoff Photo staff Sh_aron Bellinson, Brian Bilsback, Rich Callahan, Tom Campbell, Mike Elstein, Russ Fein, Jon Heimer, Paul Klin'e, Jordan Most, Chris Lacy, Duncan McKenzie, Bonnie Rosenberg, LaiTY Schapiro,.Gregg Shack, Alan Tenenbaum CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College; Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; PUblications Qffice: Susquehanna PUblications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838~ (607) 563-7151. Entered in the SChenectadY Post Office as i.{liraf, class matter. Subscription r.ate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. . CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS}~ and utllaes the College News Buteau (CNB). -- Tothe Asl .cordiell . come · f pat a ! The cordi ell ·peningl is the P ·campul .. there i1 Union< than To the This had th ting v Finane ThepUJ to, for 1 review course commi' $2,275 budget since V its yea upon 1 approv Cut such n envelo promo1 other fairly c tht

~ho • od ~er ur u.s , · r· , I . Page 11 ;;; . .. . . ........ •. '· . . . .. . OMMENTARIES .- - . · Some _Additional Criticism A Scary Halloween rather than to stories ·received from students. As I reatl an issue of Con- The issue here is quality and lpor~~iett$1$ this year, two things not quantity. It seel'n$ that the to milld: thi~ campus editors are 'SO concerned with \~~w:soaoer seems to be turning puttlng out a 20;.24 page . . campus news and newspaper that they have le,t pa~r seems to be striving quality fly right out the window. a sensationalist approach. Granted, Concordiensls was .·The main pttrpose of Con· never a Pulit~er, prize winner, cordiensis is to report hap-- but at least it tried to focus on II nellin~ts on campus. Why, then, the concerns of the . caillpus the paper veering away .from comrntlnity. The editors should ·campus news stories, Surely _ strive to publiSh'a via_ble means · there is enough to report· about for reportmg campus concerns ,;,.muuu College each. week rather rather than looking for \filler\ turning to -prepared articles to give the· paper its ·stories. A maj.ority of the paper length. _ · ' :-l-Ilt:'\ .. \ to be. devoted to stories . :Furthennore, 1· wonder why received fror_n various Wire · the editors seem to be trying to services..;UPI, CPS,. and CNB- imitate' the format of the sen~ sationaUsti~ New York Post. I would not be surprised to see in futqre issues of Concordiensfs headlines such as. ''Bikini Beauties'-p. 6\ or \Are Yon a Competent Lover.-p. 10.\ S1U\e articles such as. these are eye- catchers and will ~ell papers, but do these articles have a. place in a college newspaper? Idose with one request--leave articles such as those on the two · pages devoted to features and fill the rest of the paper with worthwhile campus news. After all, it's no crime to put out a l4 or 16 page paper that we can all be proud of. Sincerely, Ira M .. Dworkin, '84 . WRUC Strikes--out This past Tuesday evening, I had the pleasure of represen- ting WRUC at yet another Finance Committee meeting. The purpose of this meetin:g was to, for the third time this term, review the WRUC budget. In the course of this meeting,- the committee was able to cut $2 1 275 from WRUC's present budget. This is rather unfair, since WRUC has been planning its yearly expenditures based upon the budget which was · approved twice before. Cut from the budget were such necessities as st~tionery, envelopes; postage, and promotional funds as well as other expenses which were fairly represented in WRUC's budget. The real question raised here is why funds are being cut now-in the eighth week of the term? The am;wer lies in a written agreement between the Dean of Students and the Student Tax Committee (Finance Cominittee) made in 19!}0. In June of thatyear, Dean Kellett sent a memo to John Hauser (v.p. Finance} requesting that $3,300 be placed in an acco1J!lt pending WRUC' s power upgrade to one' hundred watts. This amount was to be matched by Student Tax funds, creating $6,600 for this pw·pose. Due to unknown circ~stances, the $3,300 of Student Tax funds was never set aside for WRUC. It is now ·t982 and WRUC is preparing to raise its power. However, the Finance. Qom- mittee was unaware of · their unfulfilled commitment, and as a result are unpreparedto meet it. Since the Finance Committee is obliged to give WRUC this money, they were forced to arrive at ' an alternative: reassess the WRUC budget with th~ intention of recouping $3,300. WRUC's budget is in no way connected ~th its potential power increase. Thus- it is preposterous to remove funds from WRUC's operating budget which are necessary for its day- to-day operation. This alleviates the Finance Com- mittee's burden, unjustly placing it on the me.mbers of WRUC. . Respectfully submitted, TonioScali Business Manager WRUC By NORMAN BlRNBACH ·Halloween was always a lot of fun. I remember ·getting excited the week before because Halloween was only a week awaY. About three days before, my mother used to take out my costUllle, and made me try it on, to see if it fit. I never liked trying on clothes, but I never minded trying on my costume. It was one of the rituals we had. My costwtle was a little red devil, complete with a plastic mask with horns and an elastic string to hold it in place, a trident, and a tail that broke the second year I used it. Another of the rituals we went throughon Halloween night was my. mother's warning my brother and. me to be careful about the candy we got. Don't eat apples or loose candy, she told us. {My mother has always been over-protective. When most kids come home from school, their mothers say, \Hello how are you? How was your day?\ My mother-to- this day--says, \Thank God!!') SQ my brother ani::l I listened to what she said, but realized that the crazy old ladies who put razor blades in apples lived only in the suburbs. As I got older, Halloween-for me-changed. No longer did I wear the devil's costume-! finally outgrew it. My brother no longer· escorted me on my trick-or-treating runs. (He didn't even take much of my candy.) I went with my friends. The one thing that didn't change was my mother's warning: \Be careful o_f apples. Watch out for candy that. might have been fooled with!'' Along with my mott)er's warning went Newscenter 4's Frank Field's description -of how to detect treats with tricks in them. Luckily for tne, most of the suspicious candy I didn't like anyway. I haven't .gone trick or ~ treating. in a couple of years now .I'm glad I'm too old for that aspect of Halloween. For this year, the devils aren't the children anymore. This year, the devils lurk in the suburbs, but they also live in the cities! This year, they're everywhere, and there are more of them. Perhaps it's only a fad, started by the cyanide-laced Tylenol case. But think of what that means. Most hom1icides are committed either in anger orin greed. But here is someone who is killing for the sake of killing. And since then, police have found sulfuric acid in Nytol. There have been more cases, too. Think of what that means. You can't get sick any more-it could kill you. . This fear has spread in epidemic proportions. · People everywhere are scared; parents did not let their children go trick or treating. In Allentown, Pennsylvania, trick or treating, was banned~­ Halloween was banned! Think about that. People are too scared to take medication, too worried to eat candy. Is this what society has come to? Is cyanideulaced Tylenol, sulfuric-acid-flavored Nytol, and pins in Three. Musketeers just the beginning? . Comm.entat;ie_s do not necessarily represent the views of the Editorial' Board of Concordlens~ · The Polish Defector 11Y l'\ut.T1~M'Ili.101'1 DOLLAR GUS:tHUS I'A\t\.'liD 1 C.OT.BUSTED FDA ~00 POliN~$ o ~ C.OC:Al. N I! , AND SEMTENC.EO TO ~0 YI;.\R.S l By ART BUCHWALD One of the biggest deadbeats, as far as international loans are concerned, is Poland. The myth that Poland isn't bankrupt is being kept alive by Western banks, because no one wants to · forec)9se right now. How did Poland and the U.S. banks geHnto such a mess? It turns out that the highest ranking Polish banker in the United States. was also a folish spy. . . The banker's name is Andrzej Treumann and he has just defected to our side, and is now somewhere in the U.S. as a guest of the CIA. Mr. Treumann was ostensibly in charge of renegotiating the Polish debt with the banks. My source at CIA's headquarters in Langley filled me in on a few details con- cerning Treumann's defection. \The Polish government's biggest mistake,'' he said; \was sending a top banker to.the U.S. PSI- CHI to spy for them. Our people knew there was no chance of Poland paying back its debt, so the man had to be sent to the United States for another reason. Yqu don't need a top banker to renegotiate a PoliSh loan with the Chase Manhattan Bank or Citibank. If you sent a teller from Gdansk Savings and Loan, they would have to talk to him. We figured Treumann had ~- ~ lot of free time on his hailds and was probably up to no good.\ · '\That was good reasoning, but you must have had more to go on than a hunch.\ \We did. Every time Treumann went to renegotiate a loan he kept producing Poland's liabilities on 'microfilm. He oriee tried to. open up a new account at the Bank of America and instead of a pressure cooker he asked if he could have an MX missile. Once he offered to pay back interest on the Polish debt to Citibank if the vice president would give his son a model kit of '· The· First General Meeting of the NATIONAL HONOR SOC:I.ETY in Psychology Wedn~sday, Nov. 10, 4:30 p.m. in Psych. Building Roo;n ll3 Members and interested others are encouraged to attend. Applications, for membership are now being accepted ond should be submitted . - to the Psi Chi mailbox in the Psych. Bldg. . . the Stealth bomber. But wbat really piqued our interest was' when three checks he wrote against the Los . Alamos Employees Credit Union bounced.\ '.'The man really sounds inept at keeping his cover,\ I said. \When Treumann finally came over to ow- side he said it wasn't his fault. The Polish Minister of Finance kept bugging. him to get Irving Trust off .his b~ck, and the Warsaw Pact commander kept badgering him on how many nuclear submarines were in New London. The poor man never could keep his cables straight.\ _ \Is that why he defected?\ \No strangely enough it was a little thing that got him angry. The Bowery Savings Bank held an outstanding loan to Poland of $2 billion. When Treumann informed them he couldn't make the payment, Bowery repossessed his car. Treumann sent a message to the Minister of Finance asking him to settle up Poland's debt with Bowery Savings so he could get his car back. But the Minister cabled back, 'Impossible to do. From now on take the subway.' \ The CIA man continued, \Now Treumann is no dummy and he _lived in Queens long enough to know that riding the New York subway is far more dangerous than being a spy for· a Communist country. So rather than risk his life on the IRT, he decided to come in from the cold.'' By Art Buchwald. (c) 1982, Los Angeles Times Syndicate . - - ' ~ .. '· ' .

Page 12 OONCORDIBNS/8, Novembe.r. 4. 198B Anti-Hazing Laws: Nuclear Freeze G~oups (CPS)-A court\CCecision and a new lawsuit may make fraternities, sororities and even colleges themselves liable for members' hazing injuries and deaths. Until a Virginia court decision earlier this fall, only individuals had been held liable for hazing incidents. Now a University of Delaware student bas sued his fraternity and the university for injuries he suffered during .Sigma Phi Eps~lon initiation rites two years ago. The two phenomena; some feel, may force college ad- ministrators to regUlate more closely the activities of area fraternities and sororities. In Virginia, a court has held the Phi Kappa Sigma house at the University of Vir:ginia liable for $125,000 in damages. A fraternity member had hit a pledge in the head with a ~er can. At Delaware, a student two weeks ago sued the university and Sigma Phi Epsilon for damages associated with in .. juries he received during a \Hell Night\ ritual in 1980. . At that time, one brother poured lye-based cleaner on the pledge, causing second- and third-degree burns on his head, face, chest and back. \I don't know of any universities that have been convicted of partial respon .. sibility in a hazing incident,\ notes Mary Kennard of the, National Association of College and University Attorneys, ''but such a case could always come along.\ Administrators say that a finding against a school may force them to restrict fraternity parties .and to force houses associated with the schQOis to show proof of insurance. Until recently, the most severe punishments for hazing activities were campus suspensions. But California, New York and Wisconsin have .passed anti,. hazing laws which make jaU sentences and fines automatic for fraternity members con- victed of hazing pledges. A group called the Conunittee to Halt Useless College Killings, founded· by the parent of a student killed in a 1978 ha:t:ing incident, is lobbying for anti- hazing legislation in Congress. \I don't think ftaternity hazing is actually on the in- crease,\ observes Jonathan- Brant, executive director of the N~tional Interfraternity Con-. ferenc.e, \but a lot more people are talking about it, and con- cerned with elirninatingJt.'' Brant says fraternities are \working. on ways to prevent hazing before we have to decide who was responsible.'' Foreign· Students In U.S. (CPS)--Foreign student enrollment at u. S. colleges and universities has hit a record high of 326,300 students this year, despite a 25 percent decrease in the number of Iranian students now in this country, a recent report by the Institute of International Education (liE) reveals. The total reflects a six per- cent increase over last year's foreign student enrollment, the report says, with significant increases in students from OPEC (Organization of Petroleum Exporting Coun~ tries) countries,. Mexico and emerging Asian nations. But a drastic decline in the number of Iranian students studying in the U.S. also has slowed the overall growth of foreign student enrollment. In 1980, the report points out, Iranians represented 20 percent of all foreign students here. This year, Iranian enrollment slipped from 47,550 to 35,860, accounting for only 11 percent BE IN THE FOREFRONT OFTODAY'S TECHNOLOGY · ASAN AIR FORCE ENGINEER of all foreign students. \The Shah of Iran had a lot of money and was trying in his own way to modernize the country by _ sending and en- couraging Iranians to study here,\ says Douglas Boyan, editor of liE's annual ''Open Doors\ report. \But since the revolution, the government isn't giving money for students to come,\ Boyan explains, \and the general upheaval in Iran has made travel to the U. S. more dif- --ficult. . \We're seeing a 10 percent annual increase in students from all other countries, if you take away the Iranian factor,\ he says. Taaiwan, with 20,520 students here, has the second-largest delegation next to Iran, . with Nigeria coming in a close third with 19,560 students here. The U.S. is still Hlooked upon as the center of educational and technical excellencel\ Boyan says, and attracts more foreign Our engineering officers are planning and designing tomorrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeing their ideas and concepts materialize. They have the finest, state-of- the-art equipment to test their theories. The working environment is conducive to research. And Air Force experience is second to none. You can be part of this dynamic team if you have an engineering degree. Your first step will be Officer Training School. Help us shape our future as we help you start yours. Be an engineering officer in the Air ·Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at 518-472-4484, SSgt. Mike Bobrinitz. Call Collect. A vreat way of life. (CPS)-campus anti-nuclear Demonstrations in. New York organizers are preparing to andCmnbridge, Mass., over the bring their freeze movement to summer led· to a number of another climax this Novem~r. student arrests. . On November 2nd, people in The November events, like rline states and the District of Aprirs, are nationally coor• Columbia will vote on nuclear dina ted and · avowedly non- freeze initiatives, which would confrontational. · ask both the U.S. and the Soviet '~Some of the students,\ Union ·to ,stlp adding to their Gottlieb says, \are getting nuclear arsenals. downright creative'' in Ni.oe days later will come the dramatizing the issue. third nationwide ·c.ampus There'll be an.·H,.bomb made \'Convocation'' of anti-nuclear out of a garbage can at activists. Last November's 150 Framingham State, a debate campuses grew to 359 par- between diplomats at Tulane, a ticipating campuses last April. display of anti~nul!:e paintings at Organizers expect over . 400 West Virginia Tech, and ~ rally schools to take part in their at the side of a Trident nuclear \Solutions to the Nuclear Arms submarine by Vii:ginia Com- Race;' program this Novembe~ moqwealtb .students. 11th. Many campuses wUl hit their \.Depending on the campus, peaks ·Of activity during the ~here will be lectures, debates, election. Arizona, California, panels and films,\ says Sanford Massachusetts, Michigan, Gottlieb, executive director of' Montana, New Jersey, North United Campuses to Prevent Dakota, Oregon, Rhode Island Nuclear War (UCAN),a college and Washington, D.c. aU will affiliate of Ground Zero, have freeze measures, on their perhaps the best-known anti- ballots. nuke group. There is also an uncountable UCAN is organizing this number of cities and com• year's activities with the Union munities that have · either of Concerned Scientists, placed freeze initiatives on their Physicians for Social ballots or endorsed the .freeze Responsibility, and the already. Lawyers Alliance for Nuclear Ove.r 250 Nebraska city Weapons Control. councils have endorsed a The freeze movement isn't _freeze, for instance, according really in need of reawakening _ to Ken Haar of the Lincoln on campuses. . Nu.clear WeapQns Freeze. He It has remained active ever says, \Students often play an since April's Ground Zero important role in bringing -the Week. Students and professors issue Jlefore the counclls, and at Nebraska, Iowa State; lobbying for their passage.\ Andr.ews University, Harvard, Haar expects they'll help get Los Angeles Valley College, the freeze on the Nebraska state Tennessee, Notre Dame, ballot in 1984. Stephens College, Tulane and Wisconsin passed a freeze Miami-Dade Community resolution in September, by a 3- College -.to ·name a handful of 1 margin. · schools from across the spec- \Hopefully we'll soon have a trum - have been conducting strong public mandate so that petition drives,~ initiative lob). Congress will know of tbe bying, rallies and campaigns (o growing momentum,\ $ays make weapons courses part ·of Pam Mcintyre of the National their curricula. Freeze Campaign, \a students than · any other country. But foreign students represent only 2.6 percent of total student enrollment in the U.S., compared to 20 percent in Switzerland and equally high ratios for countries such as France, Britain, and Germany, Boyan says. Puzzle Answer clearinghouse for anti-nuclear groups. \This exults Nancy Carroll, state co-chairwoman of Arizonans for Bi-lateral Nuclear Weapons Freeze, \is a grassroots, spontaneous movement. We want to let the administration know we want ·arms control now.\ . Indeed, there are so many things going on that groups are very nearly working at cross purposes. At Arizona, for· example, History Prof. Jack Marietta's meeting fo:r faculty wanting to start weapons courses on their campuses will happen at the same time as UCAN's Tucson e.vents. Marietta says the timing is \coincidental.\ But campus activist Anne Hocker- ia, left trying to decide. which group to snub, Marietta's or UCAN's. She'~ determined to attend the .faculty.m~~Jng, and perhaps spon~r some events of her own later in the year. ''It's a conflict of interest ••. .. she mourns. · ' Such conflicts ..- and r~sults of them .... promote ·contention t~e camp~ freeze movement Is essentially a . faculty, as opposed to a student · ,campaign. . ' • UCAN's Gottlieb agrees ' ''Studentshave a preoccupatio~ . With employment, and that preoccupation has had a c,hilling effect on activism, · Students think activists won~t be able to .get job.\ A great many of this · November's events are in fact organized by faculty members, Marietta, · however. disagrees.. ''This is not ~ professors' movem~nt. This is a · movement of students and the. community.\ \A lot of professors are . concerned about the dangers, and they're more lmow:le~gable · because many of them are scientists,'' Hocker adds. \But we s~udents .are equally in· terested.\ \There seems to be an awful lot of professors, especially from the fields of physics and internationar .relations,'' ob· serves Ground Zero public relations director Ellis Woodward. ' But \we have involvement from anyone from priests to · housewives. Next, we'd like to reach into traditional main· streams and go after groups like the Kiwanis Clubs.\ · They'll have to fight the administration to get there; The administration is already fighting back on campus. At Arizona, 1 'They sent around (State. Dept. Deputy. Asst. Secretary) John Scanlin, and a tape against the freeze,\ reports UA's Carroll. \They • also sent around one general who we know nothing about.\ ''The administra-tion,\ Mcintyre, points out, \is against the free~e as stated in our proposals. They want to equalize weaponry before · freezing. But we think the two ' powers are roughly equal, and that it makes more sense to stop now.\ Despite designs on the mainstream, the movement's primary efforts remain on campus. Ground Zero plans a nationwide \War-Peace Game\ for campuses next spring, \The game will consist of a scenario to the route by which a nuclear war could occur- the -steps to international conflict,\ explains Ground Zero's Pat Campbell. \We'd like to prove how frail our leaders are in a crisis,\ Woodward GARFlELD® by Jim Davis 1 RESOLVE 'To STOP BEING' FA'1', LAZY AND CYNICAL. I SHALL NOW RISE AT AN EARLY HOUR YOU GET A LOT MORIS ACCOMPLISHEV IF YOU Do IT WITH AUTHORITV --- ....-== ~ ,.,.. CLl :;:::;::; Don Jatell year! of U.l Latin Nichol :oll T · ~artii . refres ·there! - Tbe1 every 12:30. All4 Pubs< 9p.m. Purel~ Psi meetil Societ: held o 10 a' Psych Memb are E Applic are n should Chi r: Builcli! - H.J - - Stuc womaJ and e1 per v Withil Colleg 6845. Stud interel surve: cemeF 1805 a Two leaves Please BAR Harco has availal portu1 Stu den Stu den Majorl prom~ studen Goldw. Unio substit Care ( like 2- part-ti excell~ willin€ If you Head~ at 370. CareC the Fi1 VOl The Voi11111 numb~ availa the c~ Spe Mon.- afterr &x .. r~ photo~ reque, transf oral r on ba Ope 5:3()..8 in Oc tours plain subsc1

~~j.ng, and events of ,, • . ' and the ~mote the' freeie a studen~. agrees,· ~cupation that had a ctivism.· won~t of this in fact not a is a· and the are le~gable · are \But · in· awful pecially and s/' ob- public Ellis · to like to main- groups . the sent \They . ~en era! our to before two' and stop OONOOBDJENSlS~ November 4, 198B Page 18 •• CLUB NEWS ' - .. . - \·- . Don't miss the first Intellectual Cabaret of ·the year! Our topi~ is \The .Fut~e of U.S. +Foretgn Relations m Latin America.'' Profs. Brown, Nichols and Huggins Will speak , 0 n TUesd'ay, November 9 · · ~artirtg at9:00. A_dmission free, refreshments. served. See you ·there!· ,. There will be-a Hebrew Table every Wednesday in the PUb at 12:30. All Gatesmen are mvited to a Pub s.oci,.l on Novembe~ 9, 7 :30.. 9p.m. at the Dutch Hollow Pub. Purely social. Psi Cbi-The first general meeting of the. Nation!il HonQr Society in Psychology will be held on Wednesday, November 10 at 4:30 p.m. in the Psychology Building, Room 113. Members and interested others are encouraged to attend. Applications for membership are now being ac~epted and should,:be submitt~d to the Psi Chi mailbox in the Psych Building. HELP WANTED Student to help elderly woman with household chores and evening meal. Three days per week- ... 1 p.m.•7:30 p.m. Within walking distance of College. Please contact 374- 6845. Student from surveying class interested in job to do small surveying, also- digging, cementing. Please contact 355- 1805 after 5 p.m. Two yoUIDg rnen to rake ' leaves, washing windows also. Please contact 374-2608. BAR·BRI, a subsidiary of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, has part-time positions available. We have job op- portunities for 5 Pre-Law Students, 5 Pre-Business School Students, and 5 Accounting Majors. The nature ofthe jobs is promotional. Interested students should contact Lisa Goldwasser at (212) 594-3696. Union students are wanted as substitute teachers for the Day Care Center on Campus. If you like 2-5 year olds and want a part-time, paying job, this is an excellent opportunity.' Must be willing to work on short notice. If you are interested, call the Head Teacher, Carolyn Danek, at 370-0573 or stop by the Day Care Center., located just behind the Field House. VOLUNTEERS \' The ·community Health Plan Vol11Ilteer program has a large number of volunteer positions available. If ihterestedt contact the Career Center at- 370-6176. Specialties Clerical Asst.-- Mon.-Tue. & Fri. morning or afternoon segments .. Filing lab & x-ray reports, pulling x-rays, Photocopying, delivering order requests, retrieve charts to be transferred and possibly call for oral results of tests, depending on background experien<;e. Information Hecep~ionist­ .All sessions-: 9-5 p.m.; total of eight hourst 2lk day segments are. fine. Explain CHP system to new members or members Witb questions, direct members to staff that could provide in- formation needed, prov.ide literat~e, . ditect patients to appt. ·areas, announce visitors to ·appropriate .. staff~ -comirrn appts~, handling lending library \limited number of self-care and healtb .. related· books.\ Children's Ac.tiv!ty ·super~ visor--Monday, 6 .. 8:30 p.m. Supervising children and planning group actiyities~ Garden Assistant and Plant Attendant-•Three sessions a week: mom. or afternoons. Outside and inSide tending of plants, watering, misting, checking leaves and soil, fei:• tilizing, planting & replanting, also ,placement of plants. Courier-Any. day, a.m. or p.m., preferably Mon., Thurs. ineludil):g eve, session or Fri. Deliver specimens to lab, & X· ray department. Autoclave instruments~stock and clean autoclave room · and some typing. · ' Assistant to Volunteer Coordinator--;W ed.-Fri, time commitment flexible. Recor- ding h01!!;S, making up charts, answer phone and taking messages, making posters and typing. Enrollinent Assistant-Mon.- Fri., 8:30~5 p.m. Maintain CHP enrollment infbrmation, in~ ventory, includes typing, photocopying · and assembly of employer information kits. Clerical Asst..--Ciatm Department--Weekdays--aft- ernoons preferable Mon.-Wed.- Fri. (three afternoons per week). Filing : file folder~. paid bills, etc. Purge inactive files. Clerical Assistant for ~Per· sonnel--2 half-day segments, mornings -or afternoons. Tue.· Wed.-Thurs. or Fri. a total·of 8 hours. Typing form letters, filing (alphabetical), other clerical duties including establiShment of records of new personnel and related record keeping for terminations of employees. Photocopying, sortfug, purging files. Clerical Assistant-Weekd- ays, 9-4. Alphabetizing and filing, numerically sorting reports, preparing chart form packets, purging inactive files. Check-In Receptionist-Th· urs. evenings, 5-8 p.m. Dealing with the public in allergy ser- vice, checking pts. in using patient care forms, collecting $2.00 visit fee, notifying nurses of pts. arrival and changes on schedule. · Publications Asslstant-- Montings-Tues.-Wed. or Thurs. Maintain publication inventory and stock areas for marketing staff: involves some xeroxing and collating. X-Ray Re~eptiontst--6 hr. commitment; 2 days per week. Mon.-Fri. available. In charge of location of x-rays, . signing them out to . medical staff, retrieving & filing, recording. the receipt of outside x-rays and returning them by vequested dates. New York Easter Seal Society needs a Building Surveyer: Open Honse Tour Guide-Wed; Volunteers needed to visit at 5:30-8:30; spme Sun. 1 :3o-4:30, least six buildings 1 by in Oct~ Nov. & March. Give prearrangement .at comp ete tours of health center and ex- the Easter S'eals Building plain program to prospective Survey. The survey will be used subscribers. . to update the. Access GUide to ~ Capitaland, a building guide for the mobWty-impalre(t Call the Career Center for details. Coll1D)11dity Health Plan, a non~profit organization, . would like to 1 invite any potential volunteers to open houses on Nov, Ul, 2 p.m.,; Dec. 3, 2 p.m., and Jan. 7, 2 p.m. Schenectady Inner City Mhtlstry KII)S Program -is looking for volunteers. to offer abused and neglected chilW:en an opportunity· to. bu1ld longterm positive relationships witli caring adnlts and a variety of self:Oesteem building relationships. Contact Career Center, 6176. Thresholds of Schenectady is looking for Iilmate Aid· to help prisoners to develop decision making and problem solving skills, and to improve their.self- .- esteem through counseling. (Training is provided for volunteers--next training ~~ssion is Oct. 16-17). Call Career Center for details, 6176. Girl Scouts is looking for: 1. volunteer to serve as a Girl Scout resource, aSf!isting troop leaders with planning. 2. public relations representative to deal with the news media for the Girl Scouts. Contact Career Center, 6176. Coordinator ·Of Volunteers needed at the Schenectady Musewn and Planetarium on Nott Terrace Heights. Volun- teers needed for various positions: For the Haunted -House, volunteers are needed · for publicity, painting and . constructing scenery, sewing costtUiles, make-up and per- , forming. A general chairperson is needed as well. Docents, teaching guides· to interpret exhibits, are needed to give tours to visiting schools and occasional special groups. Volunteers are also needed to provide occasional assistance to the Curator . - . , planning exhibits, researching, painting, etc. Call Nancy Lutton, 382-7890 (Musewn). Playroom assistant to supervise and provide support for hospitalized children. Call the Career Center at X6176. The Community Health, Plan Vollli!.teer Program has a large number of volunteer positions available. If interested contact the Career Center at 6176. CLASSIFIEDS St. Clare's Hospital wants volunteel(s (up to 18) to work at phonathons to raise money for .the \Founder's Challenge\ ·Campaign of the Hospital Foundation. This money will go towards Ufe~saving hospital equipment and will be matched dollar for dollar by the Foun- der's Challenge Committee. Contact Career Center. ·SPEAKERS Administrative and Engineering Systems will present a Colloquium featuring Mr. Kenneth J. Majcen, Director, Personnel Assistance Program, Ernst & Whinney. He will speak on. the following topic: A. PltOGRAM FOR EMPLOYEE CRISIS COUN- SELING, Thurs., Nov. 4, 1982, 3:45 p.m., Room 205, Bailey Hall, Union College. Faculty, students and the interested public are invited. Ceteris Paribus presents Margaret K. Earl, Senior Account Representative, Exxon International Company, to speak on \Oil's RQle in Middle East Politics,\ Thurs., Nov. 4, 3:30p.m., Strauss Lounge. Everyone Welcome. Jordan Smith will be reading from his recent book of poetry, An Apology for Loving the Old Hymns, Nov. 8 at 8:00 in the Humanities Lounge. Everyone is welcome. There will be a reception following the reading, - which is sponsored by the Idol, the English Majors Society, and the English Department. ROOMS NEEDED Aparnnent needed for two females for Winter and Spring Terms. Please _ call Lori or Mary Ann at 6864 or Felicia at 201-777-8940. SCHOLARSHIPS Vanderbilt University's Owen Graduate School of Management announces the continuation of their MBA Scholarship Program. The scholarsh~ps are awarded solely on the basis of academic merit, not financial need. Thirty (30) awarlls are made ranging from full to half-tuition. Students from all undergraduate majors are encouraged to apply. Applications and further details are available from: Scholarship Committee, Office of Admission & Student Services, Owen Graduate School of Manag,ement, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn. 37203. (615) 322-6469. The Amerl~an Political Science AssociQtion announces the 1983-84 Graduate~ Fellowships for Black. Students. The fellowships are d~signed to aid prospective black political science graduates by providing financial assistance. Funding is $4700 per year. Applications must be received prior to Dec. 1, 1982. A limited number of applications are available at the Financial Aid Office or contact: ASPA Graduate Fellowships for Black Students, American Political Science Association, 1527 New Hampshire Ave. NW, Washington, D.C. 20036. MISCELLANEOUS Wouldn't you like to try the best? Then Amway's full line of products is what you want! Delivered to your place of residence, no charge. For more information and a free brochure call Karen or Diane at 370-6573. Mutual support meetings for people who are grieving the loss of a loved one by suicide are· held on the second Tuesday of each month. Suicide is the cruelest death of all for those who remain. Each day sur- vivors struggle with guilt, anger, sorrow, and questions of \why?\ This groUp provides a safe place in which to share some of these emotions with others who are having similar agonizing pain. The next meeting will be helcf on Tues., Nov. 9, 7:30-9:30 p.m. at the Friends Meeting House, ~ 727 Madison Ave., Albany, N.Y. For information call evenings and weekends, 482-0799. Band looking for serious guitarists and pianists in- terested in playing Chicago, Billy Joel, etc. Call Ben at 370- 6754 for more information. Ozzie Osbornist addicts need not bother. Let's dance! Group or private instruction, social dance skills for any occasion. Excellent rates. 783-9399, 5-10 p.m. only. Lum Fung Restaurant 107. Canal Square Schenectady, New York Tel.: 393-5429 FREE· DELIVERYI Mon.-Thurs. 5:00 p.m. - 10:00 p.m. Minimum Order - s1 0.00 YOUR CHOICE FOR $4.25 I. C!JCken Chow Meh:l, egg roU, Cried rke 6. Roast Pork with mushrooms. egg roll, &led rlc- 2. ~&:Sour Chicken or Pork, egg roU, fried riCe 7. B&r·B-Que Spareribs, egg roll, fried rJce 3. Roast Pork Egg Foo Yot.al!J, egg rOll, fried rice 8. Beef with BroccoiJ, egg roU, fmd rice 4. Moo Goo Gail Pon, eggroU, fried rice 9. Char Shu Ding, egg roD, fried do!: (bOneless chicken, bamboo sbqots, (diced roast pork with mixed chinese m~nw. water' chf!Sti'luts, dtlnae veg) ws)- 5, Pepper Steak, egg roD, fried dee 10. Sweet & Sour Shrimp, qg roll, · frledra,for $4.50 SIDE ORDERS ClllcMq Chow Mtln S2.25 RoeltPQI\Fdticffb 2.25 RDalt Pork Lo Matn 2.50 Shrimp Fried Rice 3.00 APPETIZERS Em roll Cll ,sParcrh (S) Shrimp Toast 441 Chlckm Wings (61 Shrlmprol (1) 901 3.85 2.00 1.75 1.00 -- SOUP Wonton 1.00 1\hacl.o Egg Drop got (Coke, Spalte, Tab) ~Vcgclloble 90t FcnuncCooldn (6) Almond Cooldft 121 soe 5C)t sor BONtJS.: S 541.00 ORDERS-RECEIVE ONE FREE COMBINATION \\ .. ' :t. I. ' .

Page 14 - OONOOR,DI~N~IS, November 4, 198B CLASSIFIEDS . . . PERSONALS Get paranoid, Gabel Tracy. But I told you: Ei,ght is enough. Numero Uno. Carolite: Halloween means candy corn heaven! Don't· get too wasted! - C.S. Steve-·Ooooooooh, .grroosss, that disGustingggg!!!! So, Part 2?\ yuk, was when's Bahr - (Flop down on bed) I'm bored, bored, bored, bored, bored. Mike - (Dum-de-dum-dum- dwn) You finally have your own room! It may be just a cube but, hey, look wno you're living across from! (Sudden,. sharp intake of breath) OH! Barrie, you scaaaaared me! ! ! ! Field Hockey seniors-we're reaUy going to miss you next year. Thanks for everything. P .S. The alwnni game is going to be at the Girting Center, we'll meet you there. Box 1279 - I do still love you even though I sometimes don't show it. But why didlle write his name in pen on my board? C,S, C,J - I know this is a late reply, but how could I go to the Bahamas without you? XXOO, D Sharon-TOO MANY LEGAL \TREATS\ CAN LEAD TO A \TRICKY\ MORNING. Happy 18th!. ++LOVE YA, Helena \Who is it? Just a minute, we're doing the dishes! !I\ - The Guys- DG GDI's-Who? Slowly I turn, step by step ..... - S.S.: Beware of Yammie- Boppers! A Concerned Friend Schiess: Happy Birthday! Thanks for being such a good friend. You are the best! Nora Shari: Happy 19th Birthday! .. Looking forward to our next gossip session in the Pub. Nora David \one\ and David \two\ (you figure out who's who). Is Rockland quieter without me? I miss you both ... a lot! Love you both, too. Punk Shark Crouton--l'm so glad I'm here. Thanks for the advice. Love you lots. Hunan UNION COLLEGE COMMinEE PRESENTS To my bear-I'rn so happy there are only 60 days left. It's been too long already. Thanks for making the \better\ decision. I miss you.-XO STEF: My meat is good when it gets cooking, BUT YOU COULDN'T GET IT TO DEFROST!!!!! ! ! ! 11 from Oceanside \Let's see now.; I've fooled around with four ( 4 ). - no wait ! • five (5) ·Of my sister's (riend- s!!!''- Marc Landon Bones Roomies! ! ! ! Thanx!!! , My dearest Lee: I've been watching you from a distance, and I can't control myself any longer. I've already .ruined 5 pair of underwear because of you. Susie K. Beware! ! ! ! ! Your forever fondling freshman Tony V. ++ You are the worst soccer player I've ever seen; go back to England!! P.S. Take your women with you (Mel, Deb, ... ) --America D. W. - Thanx for the carpet- The Roomies Carl Aiken - It's Whiteface this year. Charles P .S. 253 Davidso'n Whomever took (stole) my ~lue pants and my diskwasher, .It would be greatly appreciated if they could be returned to me as soon as possible!!! P.S.- My grandfather has an estate· in Great Barington! -Marc KIM - \And stay out!!!\ - S.M. C. Thoroughly Smithies, Have you been 'satiated'? -Luv ya, The crazy one on the second floor. M & P, Remember that sometimes there can be no rainbow without a cloud and a storm. B Sharon, Thanx for being you, for caring and understanding. B Hi Twinky, Did you find the Dipper? Don't strain your neck looking. Enjoy the movie!? Silky Hello Little Sunshine, You brighten up my day, come sit beside me in your way. Luv ya, Bethy D K & E, Thanx for being thre, you made life much better. Long live late night chats, etc. and please no more idols or cupcakes. -Luv ya, B LGC--I like your tooshie- KHK Wob-We nU$Sed yoQ .and wuv you-Kawa and Wandy . ' Dearest Breth-Happy Bir- thday Unto You! - Hohdeedo HAPPY BIRTHDAY BETH!!!!!! How old are ·you now? -Love ya, Kara Beth-I'rn so glad I've been able to share so many birthdays with you! You're amazing! .Love, Carol \Joe Athlete\ - I think you're fantastic! I'm just mad at you for not introducing yourself last \Lo M. year. . ve, . ary Robin, Is it fun to have a single four nights a week? r niay shock you and stay for a whole weeltend some time, Have any good water fights lately? Love, your favorite newscaster, .. Punk Skunk. (SWEAT) Hey! Astro Turf strangler- What's your problem? We're waiting; actually, we're run- ning. To the \Men's\ sports editor- - well at least you got one personal - maybe next week you'll even get another 2 for 2? Roberta -- You 1 re fired! Unless of course, r go first. Debbie - Did you learn much at the whorehouse? Love from us all What kind of name is Ira anyway? Happy birthday Tender Cheeks (no razor stubble burns for this Val) --Love Oz - Franklin \V als at Union\ S. - Valley Girls DO exist!!! Corne (Cum) up to fourth floor Richmond to fin.d out more!!!! Inge- I know you want me, so don't deny it. -Ed A. Aha! Says Froggy why not bortow Dad's boat - crazy Fernando and his singing weedeater. Hard up? Corne along with us. Join the swelling ranks of . the Well Hung Stud Service Inc. \You ask for aq inch, we'll give you a mile.\ Order your free .catalogue with pictures of all our m.embers. Wait for call from, Arthur Roscoe, President Well HWlg Stud Service Inc. Andy and Darrel beat Mid- dlebury without me- Rock (one of the Ugly Fans) November 5-7 7:30 and 10 p.m. 55016' $1.00 Hey guys, Get psyched. ·for. Happy Hour. - Phi Delt Love Question: What things are greatest in life? Answer: Destroy yo11r enemies, see them run before you, and hear the lametnations of the women. Murray and Steve- Any sC»res yet? We're waiting in the treehouse~ ... Your broads Inge - Face .t ... e other way when you stretch -- Phi Pelt Lust Judy S. - Don't you go C)Ut any more? Get with it girl,. your fans are concerned. --Dr, Drunk and Mr. Obnoxious · Emelia ... Real men eat their quiche raw. Love ya, Babe. Your favorite Mountain Man,. M.F. Photographers do it with a FLASH! Fr'ic and Frac, What's this about a new major? We're CJUt for an MRS~! Organic- was just a facade! Jug Wine & Sie _ R-oommate, Are you a goCld Catholic or a Bad Catholic? Roomate Nat · LoLo, Is it really that hard for twQ ~ople to be happy at· t.be same time? Nats P;S. All it takes is \attitude readjustment,\ right? Norm, You're a great ad- visor, friend, helper, consQlex, but especially ... confidenie[! -(HAH) Nat Private Space, Happy Bir- thday! ... We'll celebrate at 10:30 Monday morning!! Let's knoek 'em dead in Organic!! B()b & Sie Lee, Pickadatefordinnerat Sunday'slfslfs Jo & Nat P .S. yesyouwereslurringyollr'· words! Little Orphan Fannie,. Good luck on all your tests .... and ·ge:t fizzed for a great weekend (minus parties) A deflated gwp. machine JAP Go for it!! (then teach me how!) But remember tbat ameoba's consume! It's dangerous!-! PREP Sybille, I guess w.e can't have daily GH sessions! Oil well ... maybe you can keep Ine caught up on it! Chin up .... aml Smile .... it's not everything l Natalie Glenda--! thoug,ht only- superman uses phorie booths. - Love Oz To the father of our childre 1 the rafters sounds great, bOwling also would be .great, (even though I'd win!) or a movie .... there's more to \Dating\ than screwing arouild (but that can be fun too! ) RWJs & Rupert's Mom Zorro, Long time no read ..... why the silence! Are you scared of me?? A lady killer like you!!! Keep in touch ..... (literally! ! ; The real McGee Romeo, Romeo, where for art thou and thychics? .· Crouton ..... What does prolific mean? Hunie To the MAN in the red dress sorry I mi$sed YQU in aU you; glory ..... We'll have to make a date O.K.? . (can you loan me a tux and tails) -Love, Stella DLG-Here's to a ·great weekend. \\ Tim: When you least expect it--expect iU Love the 4th Floor Cities Hey Sergio-Get some real cloths!· Fourth Floor West . Du-Men do it better in the Du. Betsy....;Three and counting! Cay-1 didn't forget you - I just saved the \best for last.\ Besides I douldn't decide if you were a loser or not (I knew you were a sleazebag !) Sorry you got left out last week.. 3 . JJJ, Happy Birthday ... The Big 18 is finally here. How du you plan to spend your evening1 We adore you. Love you, First floor Richmond . From 3 oinks to the others: The wolf blew down the first two houses but once we build our hDuse of bricks, we can sit around makin' bacon! No 9 and No 18: Thanx for the puck, Guys. · Good luck on Saturday, and stay out of the ·It bo \r Lo pena y x... v~. your No. 1 fan Joan, Can we talk? Love, Rodney FIFI, Put your money wher.e your mouth is, Honey! The Dog • Twister wa~ fun, but be glad you were playing. with me and not the Wild Woolly Things because they'd kick back with their terrible claws and gnash you. Enjoy it and use it well. But ~eware of things that go BUMP m tbe night. Loren, You.needn't worry. I won't be a Gyn, even if I am rather flat! Loren, Maybe a POUND!?? K-We both could have done better. Someday ..... We just may. - Love that warmth, warm beer, warm weather and hot disc. Here's to being a good influence ... it's needed. -AUV 599 . Time . changed back \C\ helped the head, and I lmow a name. You'll learn someday. SP3 orbitals? Thanks -not.your big brother · ' TPL, Here's to our last. game- -may it be our best ever! Watch out for . ~aving cream this weekend SBT'suthey're amazing! Love, Pinhead Pinhead: Attempt as you will Try to be brave Weezy, Never fear someday Omega the Unknown your· prince siU co:me (no pllii_ - Will tap ~ance on your grave- intended!!) Just keep hanging Omega ··' out withme, I'll give you one of mine (when I .get some that is!!) -Love and Whipped cream cake K Jenny, You never make pecan pies for me ..... Oh, well! At least you put a little sunshine ih m)' life! ! ? I In more ways than that one .... hope you're better soon, Love, Karen Earl Montana lives in Web- ster. Grand prize to first person who responds with Earl's identity. Laura-keep your eye on the birdie, and Ann-don,t give me any Mullarkey or Morty will stop sati~fying all of LANA's · needs. ·-- ..... a jS2 - tPP - A JJOI ::;::.-::::::: Tom smeUa tbister term sc andthil ~ome 1 pave hobgob Nor11 · one bel · night. ~ under i help th Gran Jean ki but the somew tralnini bike. C Drex creamJ prop~J pillow! too!!! Carol suit em• peanut: bet yo crunch you're Harv on WFi live gu T.H.I...A Yode dance, ce ... \ ' Hey, 1 person: then J Hope 1 you! A you're Yappe1 Pris< aryl I and 1'1 close.~ prefer Dec. 1~ Thur \S. cont IB: forn Ad 7-9:3 Frid: Llc GraC: Fil Satu: As Gra< Fo H(] tickE Pa Sun«l Fil MODI St< 8:30 Sc: Tues KCl Po 7-9p Wed Stc St1 Ft M1 in. M

- for art prolific dress, your a me a ~ua great Floor ~ real Du. -I you you ~you The du First our sit the on the 1 . I ?? a OONOOBDIENBlSJ November 4~ 1982 Page liS a · · · · · · · · · · · N the same! l! Always, Richard AfORE PERSO 1LS TQ my hero, my vitamins still smeU and late my q1,1ota of eggs this term. I'Umiss you lots next term so be-eonsistent (ha!hal) andthink of me! I L.OVE YOU\! thin . ·h . \' some gs .never c ange .. ~ . pove always, your special hobgoblin, Valerie Norman--That towel made one hell of a costume Saturday night. Too bad that whatever's under it fell-short, but you can't help that. -Tinker & Fifi..,... Grf1Ilt-You and Dirk are gay. I can kick your butt ln anything but the last Chem test. Maybe someday you can 'take the tralning wheels off your purple bike. C.L.S. Drexel, If you ever call .me creamy again, I'll put a used proppylact~c under Y;OUr pillow ! ! I use those things too!!! ~o.J.---. Carolita: You are a great suitemate. I like my circus peanuts soft and che'Wy, but I bet you like them hard and crunchy. I guess that's O.K. if you're in the mood. -ME Harvey: Heard your singles · on WRUC. Amazing!!! Do it live guys, Please do JJ live. T.H.I.A.S.F.C. - Yodes: \You know I can't dance, you know I can't dan- ce ... \ Well, at least I can sing! Hey, notice who typed this personnal?! First Bon Jour, then Jordache, then Candies! Hope Tzab isn't rubbing off on you! Are you happy? lam 'cus . you're my \buddy!\ Love you! Yapper Priscilla-Happy Annivers- ary! I love You more each day and I'm glad we've gotten so close. You can use Tylenol but I prefer Excedrin. Can't wait till Dec. 17- Europe will never be Corky, Bonnie Muffy·, etc.- Pl¢ase take care .of Pierre next term and give him lots of bugs! He's the only B.C.D~ we've got! If you can't find another ~'perpetual date\ you 'ca-n always use him as an excuse. l)Qn't get JAP.PY while I'm gone! ! ! Love you just the way you are! Love, Guts Davidson runners: Those wet t-sbirts really trned me on, last Sunday night. Don't tease~ - THE ASTRO-TURF STRANGLER Liza, It's so good to-have you back! ! ! Thanks for being the special friend that'. you _are! Need I say more????· -Love, Valerie There will be an organizational meeting of the \IVE DATED Maria or would like to\ club -2nd floor West Amy-someone must. make clothes to fit you. I'll look Evan Picone up in the Paris phone directory. P.S. Find someone healthy-GSK Loren-El espanol is el PITZ- Don't cry it's almost over. - Your Tutor Beth-I think tnat the couch should go under the window. - The Interior Designer Pips & R.R.-You're two super chicks! Keep exercising and make me exercise, too! Thanks for all the late night chats. I love you even if one of you is short and the other is a \curly haired winner!\ Love .always, Yapper To JD2 and AK: Wake me up at8:00, OK? No wait, make that 7:00. What time is lt?? Are we in Chicago?? Is this the Central Tme Zc;me?? Good thing Andy didn't think this is California, I'd have been up at 4. What planet is this?? How much is 2 Schedule of Events for the Week of Nov. 4-10 Thursday, November 4 \Smoking Sam\ Clinic to stop smoking. For more ·infonnation contact Health Service 12-1 p.m. in the Banquet Room. IBM-Poughkeepsie Interviews, 6:30-9 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, for more information contact the Career Center at 6176. Adirondack Forum-A Forester Looks at Clearcutting, SS117, 7-9:30 p.m. Friday, November 5 . Lloyd Thomas-Assertiveness Class sponsored by Dept of Graduate Studies, 6:30-10 p.m., Strauss Lounge. Film: \Victor Victoria,\ 7:30 & 10 p.m., SS016, admission $1. Saturday, November 6 · Assertiveness Course, Sponsored by th~ Department of Graduate Studies, 9 a.m.-noon in Strauss Lounge Football Game: Union vs. Middlebury, 1:30 p.m. on the turf. Hockey Game: Union vs. AIC (preseason), 8 p.m. in the Rink, tickets: $1 with ID. · Party at SDT, 11 p.m.-2 a.m. Sunday. November 7 . Film:\Victor Victoria,\ 7:30 & 10 p.m .. , SS016 Monday, November 8 . Stop Smoking Campaign sponsored by the Health Services, 7- 8:30 in Banquet Room Scuba Club Meeting,,7:30-8:30 p.m., SSOIO Tuesday, November 9 Kar~te Club Meeting, 7-9 p,m.~ Arts 202 . . . Political Science Dept. sponsormg speaker: Dtetnch Stobbe, 7-9 p.m., SS016, for more info. contact the P .S. Dept. , , Wednesday, November 10 . . . Stop Smoking Campaign, 7~:30 p.m. in Banquet ~oom Student Band Performance,. 8 a.m.-noon; Memorml Chapel Film: \2001: A Space Odyssey,\ 7:30& 10 p.m. . Music from Marlboro-Museum-College Concert Sertes, 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. - . 1 plus 2? What the hell is Eastern Standard Time?? Signed, Not Time· Warped · Blossom, I'll alW!iYS love you. Love, Musicman Harvey is a Sneaker: Could it possibly be true-? Cabaret in the winter?? Our prayers are finally .an- swered!! I! T.H.I.AS.F .C. To the .sisters of Sigma Delta Taq.: When it rains it pours! ! ! - 4th Floor South Chip, at the H~lloween party, you put me in stitches. Pam-sorry I'm •at a loss for words when it come_:; :to you. Timmy;. Stop avoiding me; Love you-sue 14, We made it through the fall and I'll catch your number in the spring.~ \:\14 Lost: Wilson Jet basketball - left in gym after intramurals on Sun. Oct. 24. Has name on ball- please retilrn to 112 Fox or call 370-6671. Hey D.B. (or do you prefer Norman Jr.) You're back! I bet you thought you'd never hear that again--Wrong!! I hear there's a 1-30 sale at the mall - you can get some great sneakers. I understand 34 year olds love small cheap things - just make stire you look all the way over the bar next time: See-Man Enjoy walking Boss Would whoever picked up the Wilson Jet basketball in the Fieldhouse on the 24th please return it to 112 Fox. Mark--Does everybody on your floor have to sleep with a nightlight on? CONGRATULATIONS LTG IRA!! Klee-Even the best of us misjudge people. Turkey drips of America, unite! --Love, Glenjamin Rob, Ted, Jeff, Glenn-Pizza anyone? ~atsby Juliet-if I give back your yellow hairpins will you let CLASSIFIEDS down you hair again? Romeo Sean-the next double feature at Union will be \Dawn of Circle K\ and \Don't go in the Skellar.\ They're supposed to make \Dawn ,of the Dead\ look like I'Bambi meets the Wood- chuck family.\ What do you think? It could be fun ...... SAV Randy, Thanks for the en~ tertainment during our meals. we love the view from our kitchen. Love 317lf.! P .S. HAPPY BIRTHDAY Dear Randy, You're the best big brother a girl could ever have; thank you for always being there. Happy birthday,- love ya Clownie. P~~. Backgammon anyone? Robin-If I was staying here this weekend I could have the single. Wouldn't that be fun?! Have a good ti;me at the concert. Sweat David one and David two (you figure ·out who's who( Is Rockland quieter without me? I miss you guys and love you lots and lots. Punk Shark To the ASSOCIATE Arts Editor - We all know the associate is only temporary, so why don't you just Use White- Outandget rid of it????? ... Your Fellow idolizer of Jan Grey loves, you!!!!!.! Charlie B.- \People so seldom say I love you. And then it's too late or loves goes. So when I tell you I love you, it doesn't mean I know you'll never go, only that I wish you didn't have to.\ LjC Jean the lean green bean from Keane-I'll miss you while you are gone! ! Please take care of Val for me okay???? Love as always, Corky Hey O'NEILL++ I'll settle for your favorite brunette! And NO, I'm not jealour: Don't flatter yourself!!! G.S.-Hey Pres.: Let's not lose the knack! We'll pull this dorm together somehow; don't lose faith! Love ya, P.S. R.R.+I HOPE THE ROOM ISN'T TOO quiet without me! Be good! But have fun too!!! Love, P.S. Hey WONG-\Here's to -good friends!\ Next week: Belated birthday celebration, O.K.? I love ya, Kid--Y.F. Exa-The Pushy Orte! M.W.-Hey, we made it through the past 3 days-- CONTRATULATIONS! You performed beautifully! Now, get psyched for the re$t;; we're going to have a blast! ! ! Love, YFGDI (not for- lo11g! ) A.S.-SMILE! Somehow, we will both survive the as; it will all work out! Yo11 know I'm always here. Get psyched fpr PALZ! ! ! I love ya, Trish Hey, L.B. Happy llh! ! ! !I love you, Your L.B. CONGRATULATIONS new Delta Delta Delta pledges! ! ! Get psyched! II Bart, Get psyched for Saturday night--and g90d luck! ! ! Hammer those peasants! CARLA-Thanks for everything ...... Delta love Ron ..... don't worry about not being from canandaigua any more. I knew it 11ever really existed anyway. YFJS Delta Gamma pledges - get psyched for a great four years! Lenox life is SUPER! JS and vm - how come I never see you any more? I miss you. YITBOJVFH,D Roses are red, violets are blue, your face was green, Saturday night at DU. To the blond who so graciously ac- cepted the shaving cream on his face - plea13e get in touch with me through next week's per- sonnals. RON-here's yours, now where's mine? Gey psyched for a GREAT (just GREAT) swim season! SLP Field Hockey seniors-thanks for a great year. You will , definitely be missed next year . The 1983 Alumni game is at the Girling Center. We'll meet you there. Due to the enormous amout of Personals submittecf weekly, . \ it is often n.ot possible for the total amount to be JJrinted, due to various space limitations. Personals are cut at the discretion of the· printer, not the editors. Anyone is welcome to resubmit any person_als that are not printed. UNION COlLEGE FilM COMMITTEE PRESENTS 7001: A Space Odyssey Wednesday, November 1 0 7:30 and 10 p.m. ,. $1 .. 00 SS016 - . ' i \

! ' Page 16 OONOORDJEN$18, November 4, 198! SPORTS 1982 Volleyball Se,ason Over: Volleyball Marathon By CATnY GIFFORD Sports Staff By the time this article hits ,print, the 1982 Volleyball season \' will be over. Sitting at 13-15 with two games on Wednesday, November 3, against Sage and Oneonta,. it is conceivable that Union could finish at .500 (15-15) and qualify for the state tour- nament. This weekend the state roster will be drawn up and only time will tell. If recent play is a factor, then Union should have a good chance. This past weekend was spent at St. Lawrence University playing two marathon sessions of Volleyball. Friday night started at 6 p.m. with a match ~gainst the host, St. Lawrence. Union started off shaky but finally pulled together. The match finally went to the Saints. Waiting for Union on another court was Clarkson College. Mter a strong start, a hot Union Squad slowed down, giving the Techers false hopes as Union rallied behind Brenda Hugick and·Jodi Brenner to overcome Clarkson, 2M1. This match over, Union proceeded on to face Siena. The Indians gave Union a fight, but the Dutchmen practiced a few pysch-out manuevers on the court, and, combined with the late hour of 11:30 p.m., Siena fell victim to Union for the third time this season. That long day over, Union returned Saturday to face the University of Rochester. Iii the long match, Union and Rochester traded the momentwn several times With Rochester finally winning. Natalie Stone and Laura Berrish both had strong net No;~1·12 ~._,...IR_IS __ H with the \Donnybrook free . . . Fair\ beer & soda Irish Hall- 989 Albany St. Schenect.ady ADMISSION $6 c A B A R E T The ConcorCiiensis sports staff ·would like to thank George CuHin, Union's sports information director for his time and 1ssistance in producing these· sports pages. games against Rochester and were supported by Karen Roth and Jodi Brenner. The next match Showcased the entire Union squad as they took on. Albany. A very pysched team gave the Great Danes a run for their money. as Union led each game but finally fell in the end 12-15. Cheri Wong set a beautiful game and gave Brenda Hugick a well-deserved rest. Chris Gernhart and Mary · Fc;~rbes played excellent defense while Suzette Collier and Cathy Gifford helped at the net. The 11ext match was rotmd one of elimination play and Union faced a confident Clarkson squad but, behind captains Kate Schatzle and Brenda Hugick, Union easily overcame Clarkson. Union then faced St. Lawrence in the final match of the tournament to determine third place. The Saints were extremely strong, but Union wasn't easy to fini$ as they .fought back from 3-11 to win 1~ 14, led. by Cheri Wong. The match was the hardest· of the tournament for both teams .and, with hometown . fans cheering them on, St. Lawrence edged by Union, who finished olth ovt!ralL The tournament was well played by_the entire.squad, and hopefully ··one more chance to play will be given to seniors Brenda Hugick, Natalie Stone, KatieSchatzle, Karen Roth, and Cathy Gifford. Ne:xt year's squad will be led by Laura Berrish and Jodi Brenner at net and Cheri Wong as setter. Freshmen Chris Gernhart, Suzette Collier and Mary Forbes added lliads of en· thusiasm and developed valuable skills which will be utilized to the max next year. Overall, it was a helluva season. Good luck next year and good bye!! ~ 1S Jodi Brenner (9} and Brenda. Hugick at the net against Sage. it's ours too! ' The highest engineering standards and most up-to-date techflical resources have been critical influences in building Harris RF Communications into a world le.ader. We're a fast-moving, high-technology producer of sophisticated radio com- munications equipment and systems. Our projects involve some of the newest most advanced technology in the areas of RF Circuit Design, Analog/Digital Design, Computer Hardware & Software, and Communications Systems Design, to name a few. And, our Rochester. NY location can pro- vid~ you with an outstanding quality of life-superior cultural and recreational op- portunities in almost any area you may be interested in. You'll fihd spectacular· sporting events and activities, concerts, plays, films, beaches and parks, and much more. like you, we've put a lot into ge1ting where we are toEiay. Like yours, our future successes will depend upon main- taining the highest level engineering stan- dards. For these reasons, ·ambitiOus: knowledgeable engineers are an essen- tial key to our future growth If you're degreed in any of the following areas at · the BS, MS, or PhD level, and are in- terested in a high-visibility, high- opportunity career. then contact us. • Electronics Engineering • Mechanical Engineering • Computer Systems Engineering • Computer Science • Industrial Engineering . To learn alf the facts about Harris RF and your many avenues for personal and professional growth with us, meet with our Company .Representative(). ,I We will be interviewing on campus, · Monday, November 15th, in the Career & Counseling. Center. Contact your College Placement Office for additional information, or to schedule an gppeintment --- ·Pr< A · Unio: trem • ,groW1 sport, • onva (or h and i impr~ both I of J1 team force playiJ winni her t and' team this .score

Profile of Julie Miller: A Great Sport .BySPORTSSTAFF When considePing women's · ·W\Irts at Union College, one name conti:nUOW!lY pops Up - Julie Miller. JUlie, a junior at Union, has contributed a . tremendous amount t() the .• growth and· success of women's • sports. at Union. Julie has been on varsity basketball and tennis for her three years at Union, · and in that time, has tallied impressive accomplishments in both sports. Witb the acqUisition .of Julie,. the women.'s tennis team took on a new role as a force to be reckoned with. Julie, playing at . first singles, had winning individual seasons in her three years on the team, and was a major factor in the team's unbelievable 9-2 rec9rd this year. .Additionally, Julie .scored an impressive finale to her season by placing fifth ·at the NYS Collegiate TQur~ nament, out of a,field of sixty- four players .. Julie has. also been instrwnental in the success of the women's basketball team. In her three years on the team, she has averaged 15 pojnts a game.' In, addition, she was named Most Valuable Player last year, as well as being high rebounder for the season. Julie's successes on the athletic field at Union are measured not only by her ability but also by her positive attitude,. leadership qualities and tremendous motivation. According tt:> wQmen's tennis coach .Leslie Arakelian, \If aU Union athletes had as much dedication and talent as Julie, Union swrts would be un- · heatable.\ Julie's athletic ability dates back to her high school years when she played badminton, basketball and ran cross country at Miami·Bahnetto Hi:gh School in Miami, Florida. She did not even begin .playing tennis seriously until she came to Union. Athletics are only one part of Julie's well-rounded background. She is also a sister at Delta Gamma, and is in- volved in various extra- curricular activities at Union. Julie is an applied mathmaje>r, andishopingto attend graduate school in tbls field. The women's sports program is counting on . .Julie to continue her success next year. With her ability, both tile tennis and basketball teams can be assured of winlling seasons. Sue Stopero, Joan.O'Connor,'and Janice Gliddeni at last Saturday's meet. 109 Canal Square, Broadway, Sch'dy. Phone: 37 4-4332 • PIZZA • N.Y.SStyle· &\cut ·US s.zs 5.25 s.zs s.zs s.zs s.zs s.zs s.zs Sicillian Style (Deepdiah) 12\ cut zt•• cut Chi!!ese Ex. Cheeu S.ueare Muehroom Pepperonj Ctun Peppers Meatballs Onion• Anchovies Any Add Item Papa Cicco~• Delu•e .75 t.ZS $.00 LSO c.oo 10.00 i.OO 10.00 c.oo 10.00 1.00 10.00 1.00 10.00 1.00 io.oo c.oo to.oo G.GO to.oo 1.00 uo to~ts ts.oo ,.---0. ____ .... ______ ~----------------·-------- ... ------ ... - .. _ t FREE MERCHANDISE . . i r Every time you get •· ptzu or '-ndwlches valued at more than : ' $C.OOyou will rtcelve a coupon e save them for Free Merchandise. 1 I . f 1 15 Coupons ll cut Free (cheese only) l I 20 Coupons 112 cut Free (cheese only) 1 25 Coui)CH.1S 124 cut Free ( llngre<flfnt) : : 50 CoUpons . 1 12 keg of be!!r C3days notice) t t 100 Coupoos Pizza Party for 2$' people wl1h beer at your 1 r . . dorm or fraternity (2 days nptice)_ .• --· _..J, 1-----~--------------------------------- WE DEti\/ER ON CAMPUS· PHON.E 37 4-.43.3~ \\' . Page 17 SPOR ~une Miller, one ot the strengths of the tennis team, at practice. Cro·ss Country Meet By 2 JOG Thirteen teams from all over New York travelled to Geneseo, Saturday, for the annual NYSAIAW cross country state meet. After a long haul the Union women pulled into the Hoijday Inn and met the natives. 'l'hey relaxe4_ Friday night, and since Geneseo isn't like tile roekin' city .of Schenectady, they retired early after discussing strategy for the next day's race. They slept through the wake up call and breakfast, but got up i:n time to catch some Saturday morning cartoons and do their hair before the race. After pinning on their pigs along with their numbers, tlley said their team prayer, touched their \understick\ for good luck, and headed for the starting line. Inge \Ruby\ Stockman ran an awesome r-ace, finishing 7th overall with the time of 19.24.8 for the 3.1 mile course. The team placed 8th and is trai,ning hard for their biggest meet of the year, the National Qualifier at Fredonia. Details in two weeks. lnge Stockman runs the 3.1 mile course In 19: 24.8. Sportswriters Needed Contact Gina at Concordy x6155 -. ' f i I i

Page 18 CONOOR_DIENSIS, November 4, 1982 s ••• Rugby Cootblued from page 20 This time it was winger Aaron Schleifer who burst down the sideline for a secondUnion try. Again Backhouse converted and Union went into the half with a 12-7 lead. Coming out after the five- minute intermission, RPI was pumped up and ready to go. They quickly scored a try with a conversion to regain the lead 13- 12. This motivation soon broke down, though. Union regained its composure and controlled the ternpo for the rest of the game. With its overwhelming dominance, Union, had several opportunities to score, but it just couldn't find the right combinations to put it in. The Garnet squad did get another try to gain back the lead for a victory. Once again it was CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP Meets Every Tuesday at 4:30p.m. in fhe 4th Floor Lounge CARNEGIE HALL -Come ioin us for Bible Study, Singing and Sharing- Schleifer with an exciting. run down the sideline. Backhouse split the uprights for a third time ~:tnd Union was on top to stay with an 18-13 lead. In the second game, Union dominated even more than ·tn_ the ~irst game. Four unan- swered Garnet tries made it an easy 24.0 victory. Everyone got into the act 1n this game~ A .few scrummers .had the opportunity to run the ball while several linemen moved into the scrurn. The Union tries were scored by Steve Patterson, · Doug Baumgarten and Backhouse (2). Bob Waaler converted all of the tries and Union's B tearn · had an easy 24-0 victory. The B team is also 4-2 after Saturday. This Saturday the RFC will be home to play one of its tot,tgbest games of the season. It will be against a strong team from SPO.RTS HAPP.ENI.NGS Nov. 4-11 Varsity f·ootball Nov .. 6 Middlebury 1:30 ' JV Football Nov. 8 Wilbraham-Munson .3:·00 Varsity Soccer Nov. 3-Marist 2:30 X-Country Nov. 6 NYS Meet at L.eMoyne Nov. 13 N:CAA Qualifying .Me-et at Fredon-ia Rugby Nov. 6Amherst T:OO Varsity Hockey ~ Nov. 6 AlC+ 8:00 + indicates .preseason game Uniort34 Oneonta l Union 1 Union 18 SCOR.EBOARD FOOTBALL (6-l) SOCCER (3-9-2) RUGBY (4-2) HOCKEY WiHiamso, ·Union o. Rochester 1 , RPll3 ._ _________ .__ ..... __ ....__ ..... - ........ Amherst. Play will start at 1:00 Union3 cz::JP;~P SIGM,A CHI'S Annual EQUALIZER/· BOOSTER SANVO -==-==~- u,.~ ____ o_. _o .... O._ , ~ DCR150 Receiver 22Watts RMS 0.09% Total Distortion Limited Quantity All BANOS RADAR DETECTORS LONG RANGE PROTECTION XK Dash-Visor XK-Remote $)>0 Grill Mnunt Super-HET Super Lc;;ng Range Vixen $~ 60-3 Remote Grill .$4Cfo 119 95 129 95 229 95 249 95 on Field. Any~ne interested in getting advertising and/or business_ experience call JULIE at 370-6155 or 370-6658 so~ ~UJD)TICQ) ~ SR•310 o [W[J. AA\/F lA . . BEST CAS SETTE BUY · ;~~:; .13- ,. 9·S··. SR-31 0 ~ ~ 21-9 95 STR-VX22 AL RECEIVER . 30 Watts RMS Ol.!tput Receiver 28 Watts RMS Digital Receiver 40 Watts S Receiver 60W IIWifiiPII~ ........... CTDK. pm- ~ ~ _$$-:4(1 \\'--- \- / 1.49 2.49 2.29. 2~99 LIGHTWEIGHT STEREO FEATHERPHONES ~ 95 159 95 $199~9$ $249.95 ALBANY • Wolf Rd ShoppErs Pork 459-8055 \ ThiS Week auttne footbal defens: ECAC' the W4 · three- inter< a gains Hutt camei Willicu doorst1 nine : twent~ picked on Un second s~ ' ' 31 The Dutchl week ( fine n TheD Drago 'tl~%~ l!nive Satur~ Field. Uni<l mat~ very'c thougt real seaso11 well. l on ~ mana{ The was s Acosb Rose. top I extre11 throu~ Unit of Ro(

1:30 3:·00 2:30 hOO 8:00 ... ~Pil3 .49 ~99 ~EO CONCOBDIBNSIS, November -4, 198e Page 19 Athlete of the Week By D. Hurley Sports Staff This week's Athlete of the lveek honors go · to Lenny Huttner of the 6-1 Dutchmen football team. The. sophomore defensive back was named the ECAC's. \De'fensive Player of the Week\ for hiS four-tackle, three-assist · and three- · Interception performance against Williams College, Huttner's first interception came in the second quarter with WUliams knocking on Union's · doorstep, On.~· second down and nine situation from Union's twenty-three yard line, Huttner picked off a B.J. Connolly pass on Union's ten yard line. His second _pick-off came near the By JOE PICOLLA and LARRY WILDER · SIHJrts:Staff · The Union College Soccer Dutchmen rebounded from a week of hard losses to play two fine matches this past week. The Dutchmen battled the Red Dragons of Oneonta · State ~~esday in Oneonta, and the LW/versity of Rochester Saturday afternoon on Garris Field. · end ofthe half when he .returned the Hbingo,\ ·from Union's thirty-slx yard line and dashed sixty~four yards, with plenty of blocking,. to put Union ahead 24- 0 at the half. Huttner's third steal stopped a Williams thifd quarter scoring . bid. On second and goal fr.om Union's s~. Huttner g;rabbed the ball in the e~dzone ·to help preserve the Dutchmen's first .shutout ·of the season. ..- the l91ll Dutchmen season in· which he recorded an ,in- terception and earned a varsity lett,~r~ Lenny, an engineering• computer science major, is a br()ther of the Delta Upsilon fraternity; Congratulations to Lenny and best of luck to the fo()tball team against., Mid- dlebury. Head . Coach. AI Bagnoli commented, \That was a once in a lifetime performance ... Lenny played an outstanding game.\ 13 The 5'9\ 175 lbs. Huttner is a -a graduate of Madison Central o High School (N.J.) Where be <I) was an All•Conference player. He started two games-during Lenny Huttner Tie·s Rochester even, physical match. With a few breaks, the g8Ille may have ended with a much higher score· in the Dutchmen,s favor. Union started the match extremely slowly,, Rochester to do~rnofl(e~lifi contain the •nion half of the tallied mark of fingertips of Rochester's keeper high into the net. Union and Rochester con- tinued to exchange scoring threats throughout the remainder of the contest. The Dutchmen dominated the .shooting statistics when regulation time ended, deadlocked at one goal apiece. Union dropped their first matcrh versus Oneonta, 1..0, in a very 'close, even match. Union, _ . lhoughlosing the game, showed real improvement over the season by playing Oneonta so well. Union registered. 12 shots The close play persisted through the .first overtime period. Both squads exchanged a fairly equal amount of shots on goal. The physical play in- creased, as attested by a yellow playing card issued to Rochester's Dan in the Mahanger. · saves by Union, for the most part, finally sustained control of the final began play overtime period. Union con- into the Ro<~es at the tinually fired shots at the midpoint of Union R()chester goal, but failed to on goal, while Oneonta managed 10. The lone goal of the match was scored by Oneontl;!'s Ed Acosta, assisted by Paxton Rose. Rose, one of Oneonta's top players, was covered extremely well by Andy Dreher throughout the contest. Union ties U of R . Union battled the University of Rochester to a -1-1 tie in an penetration score. Rochester, however, had the right side the last threat of the match as center. On nmner~d\Js \iilsrt;antces - Rich Mahanger broke free and Unionhadshots goal, _ charged the Union goal one on but just could the shot one with 25 seconds left in the in. match and keeper Rich Russell Union second half as his only obstacle. with a great deal of intensity Mahanger's shot went just wide and aggressiveness. Andy of the net. Dreher put Union on the board . Union entered their last game at the 55:49 point of the match. of the season with a 3-:9-2 record, Bernie Zeif.ang booted a high and played Marist Wednesday pass to the crease of the goal. afternoon. Dreher headed the ball off the Sports Talk With SCOTI' WYKOFF Sports Staff As this fall season winds down. the college careers o( many Union athletes will be coming to an end. For .seniors it Will mark the culmination of four years of commitment to Union College athletics. One must wonder if the average Union student.lruly ·understands the extent of the commitment that athleteS' make at Union. · · Members of this fall's football and .spccer teams · began their· season a little over two weeks before classes started. The schedule for these pre.,season workouts is grueling and leaves no time- for anything but training and sleep. The com- petition is intense as all tnose athletes in attendance are constantly fighting for a spot .in the lineup each titne they step on the field. Those not up to the challenge quickly weed themselves out as the others look forward to the promise of a winning season. One must also look at pre- season workouts as a time where they can make a total commitment to their sport withOut any other distractions. The true 'extent of a small college athlete can be ·realized once the rest of the scbool .is back on campus and classes begin. One quickly gets caught up in a routine that leaves Uttle time for anything beyond sports and classwork. . '11te athlete wakes in, the morning and goes to classes. One typically gets an hour or · two of rest in the afternoon Defore going to practice. That is, . .if you're lucky enough not to be in any labs. For those who · have babs it's not unlikely that they would have a full day of classes right Up to the time of practice in the afternoon. Injuries also cut int() an athlete's schedule as one must work on rehabs for a .half an hour to forty minutes before each practice. Afternoon practice runs right up to or often into dinner. Once cUnner is over leg three of the day begins as your only time for doing school work rolls around. On occasion, entire days can be taken . up by an athletic contest. Teams often leave school early in the mornptg to travel for g~es on the road, only to return too tired to do anything else but sleep. The typical student often never . realizes the length of seasons. For example, many think that the hockey season goes for the winter and baseball is just during the spring. Many don't realize that hockey players start off ice training the first days of school while baseball cuts are even made before we all go off on spring break. It's a ~tough decision for students to decide to both go out for a $por.t;and then to keep it up for their four yeats of college. Athletes are continually weighing the advantages of competirig on the varsity level versus the advantages of having much more free time to follow through on other interests. The support for the athlete on campus many times falls short of what is. deserved. I, as one, am appalled at the support that the student body gives to rnany of the teams at Union. Very rarely will one ever see the . fieldhouse packed for a big hoop game or the stands out at Garris filled for an important soccer match. What this all adds up to is that the extent of the commitment of the athlete at Union is great while the recognition given athletes by other students is often non-existend. A big round of applause goes out to all those who put the many hours into representing our school and I hope that . someday other students will give them the recognition that they deserve. S.UPPORT UNION SPORTS ATTENTION! Cramped Season for Harriers BEAUTIFUL WOMEN 8 MODELS! axc:uva I'RJJE Use PBOJ'a.S.SIONAL PIIOTOI OJ' 1'0V!l51L.I'I (NOBXAI.l.Y U:&/PJIO'I'O) I AM A PBOJ' .. IIONAL PBOT4JOJIAP~Ba AI.SaXai.INO A POB'I'J'ORtlo,. II' ro., o1va. MJ: ll taw .Qoua• . ot' mva rixa .&.s A xou.Kr., you wu.t. ••~••v• ftU ll•s• COPJJ!I OJ' l'Ba PBOfO• I TAXI. 1'0& A PaKLIJIIIfARY ICKBJ:NINO ·CA£Lr LOOAN c:aaiAP Jlt• \\'\ QIT.UAB \PHOTOGaA•I. \ ByD.D. Sports Staff On Saturday, October 2.3rd the Union College Men's Cross Country t~am competed in the Capital District Cross Country Championships in Central Park. Siena College was tb.e winner of tbe meet, while RPI edged out Albany State for second place and Union placed fourth. Dan Hurteau of Siena was the overall winner of the race with a time of 24: 48 .. 13; Hurteau!s time shattered the record . for the five-mile' course. Dave Dellehunt was the top finisher for Union With a time of 26:40, g()od.. enough for a twenty~ second place finish. Denny Contois added a twenty .. sixth place to the D~tchmen cause, while frosh Dave Stanland captured the thirty-second spot. ~ounding . out the varsity top · ftve were Paul Well f1Rd Jim Mann who placed thirty-third and . thirtypfifth, respectively. In the Capital District Junior Varsity race, Siena once again proved its dominance of the Capital District region. RPI took the runner-up spot, Albany State wes third and Union was fourth. Chris O'Donnell was the top Dutchman finisher with a sixth place finish in 26:48. Mark Craw and Paul Palaszewski took the twelfth and nineteenth places, respectively, while Tim Orcutt crossed the line in the twenty-second position. Rounding out the Dutchmen scoring were: Phil Gist in thirty-fourth and Dave Marin in. thirty-fifth. On Monday, November 1st the Dutchmen traveUed to Franklin Park in Bostom to compete in the 7th annual IC4A Ci.\oss Country Championships. The Dutchmen finished a disap- pointing 13th out of 17 teams in the College Division. Bill ~<:Roberts was the top Union fm1sher. McRoberts covered the course in 26:46 for a 58th place finish. Chris O'Donnel and Mark Craw finished 72nd and 75th, while Paul PalaszewSki notched the 99th spot. Other Dutchmen finishers were: Tim Orcutt, lOlst;. Dave Dellehunt, 105th; and Dave Stanland ' ' 106th. This week the Dutchmen will hope to fare better as d;hey travel to LeMoyne to compete in the New York State Cham· pionship meet on Saturday, November 6th. INDOOR TRACK MEETING Men-Tuesday 11/9/82 ·6:30p.m. Basement Humanities Women- Wednesday 11/10/82 • 6:30 p.m. Basement Hu1manities · Short Organizational Meetings

Cl .. QJ .a c: QJ ~ .!! c: c: dl Page 20 OONCORDIENSIS, Nov.ember ,f, 1981 SPORTS • ... crush Williams, 34-0 Football Breaks Jinxl! By LOU GEORGE Sports Staff After 27 years the Dutchmen, now 6-1, succeeded in breaking the \Jinx\ at WU Previous to last ~<>fnrrt,.u'· victory, the Dutchmen bee1ten the Ephmen of (at Williams) in years. In addition to \Jinx\ the \'\'T'\'\ the top ·of the rankings and Lambert Bowl covers the Easte Union's impressi displayed the facts Dutchmen have a plosive offense multiple of .players situations, and a that is very ae:lzrel unyielding to any allowing an average points per game. The victory was bination of execution and t preparation by the Dutchmen attacked right away. After opening kickoff return team did field but instead, ball without a Harris l.f.W~\:n.ly pass to Joe finally Williams•·to..,,.itn later nn!ltr't.,•rh!~t' found John goalline for the quickly put shocked and conlfUSE~Cl The defense did not allow Williams a first down and constantly forced the Eplunen to give the ball back to the Dutchmen/offense, Union began their second charge from their thirty-two after a good punt by Williams. On third down, behind. great pass protection, Dan Stewart threw the ball fifty rds downfield to Rich who had beaten his fen1rlers. Kellaher .scored soon an eighteen yard pass ~t .. 'w\''\t Dan Stewart was to the ECAC Weekly for his performance in the first half. the game early .in with a minor completed nine attempts for two touchdowns. this season selected Roll. , fresh- c;;!H ... tr ... connected on a field gQal to build Williams' first halted by an Lenny Huttner, for the day. increased the before the end half when he his second in- sixty-four yards for a Huttner's third t:IJ~luu came in the third closing the door on any a Williams comeback. was named as the Defensive Player of the Week for his stellar per- formance at cornerback against Williams which included four tackles, three assists, three interceptions and one touch- down. For the sixth week in a row, the Dutchmen have had at least one player selected for· EC.AC honors. Although the Dutchmen did not come out in the second half l)nion QB Dan Stewart was named to the ECAC weekly \Honor Roll\ for the third time this season. Against Williams he completed nine of thirteen passes for 156 yards and two TO's. Rugby Stands 4-2 BySC Sports Staff - Bouncing back from a tough loss a week earlier, the Rugby Football Club got back on the winning track with a victory. The team defeated the Engineers of RPI by a score of 18·13. The Club's record now stands at 4-2. Scoring came early for Union as the team easily moved the ball downfield as it did all af- ternoon. Both the Garnet scrwn and line dominated · the op- position. Rob Israel broke several tackles and made one of his many outstanding runs. He was forced to dwnp it off. to Keith Dean who easily moved in for Union's- first try. Russ Backhouse converted the extra- points kick ab.d the Garnet ruggers were up 6-(). Next it was RPI's turn to score. Several minutes later, the Engineers were allowed a penalty kick. Their southpay kicker barely put the ball over the crossbar to cut Union's lead in half. Soon after, RPI scored again as one of its forwards was able to break through and score. a. try on a Union line-out deep fn the Garnet territory. . The conversion missed, but RPI was up by one with a 7-6lead. This change, in momentwn didn't fast long though .. Union quickly came storming back. . ConUnued on page 18. With the intensity they had. in the first lu;tlf, they did add to the.ir lead with two scores. The first was on an eight yard. spring by Bill Huttner. The second was a thirty yard field goal by Greg Sticka.· The Dutchmen wi11 try to continue tbeir winning ways this Saturday against the _Panthers of Middlebury, a team the Dutclunen have not beaten in ten years. The Panthers nave a record .of ~2 with their most recent victory at the eXpense of Hamilton,. 3'5-21. In that game the Panthers rushed for 467 yards on 74 carries scoring four touchdowns on the grQ1Uld. The Dutchmen will have ,no trouble preparing for their next· two games. If they win both games a playoff berth is definitely within reach. Right now .a playoff berth is definitely in their minds. Score by periods: Uni011 It 10 e ID-34 Williams 0 0 0 0- ~ U - Johns-on, 24 pas~-lrom Stewart (Sticka kick I U -: Kella.her, Ill pass from Stewar.t 1 Sticka klcki. · · U - StiCka, 20 field gol!l . u -l. .Huttner, 6-4·fntercec-tion return (Stlclr.a·kick) U - B. Huttner. ·hun !Sticka kick I u - Sticka. 30 fleld,go~l First downs Rvsh\·yards Passing yards Pa~s STATISTICS Union i7 47·151 198 ll•l7·2 131 7-JA.l Returns yards Puntuvenlige Fumb!es-los1 Penalties-yard~. 1 6- 30' Dutchmanof.fel'lsivE:!guard Scott Johnston looks upfield toclear th~ way for ron.ning back John Johnson. Urnion won at Williams for the first time in 27 years. -ie. LAM.BERT ·BOWL POLL ·1. Plymouth State 2. St. lawrence j ~ 3. Westminster · 4. Wagner 5. Swathmore 6. Widener 7. Montclair State 8. Franklin & Marshall 9. Tie: Union St. Johns * Tbe Lambert Bowl Poll ranks the top DJv. I rl football teams in the East. New England Football Newsletter's To,p F'i-ve 1. Unio,n 2. Amherst 3. Bates 4. Norwich 5. Tufts Skating Dutchmen Win \JyD. HURLEY Sports Staff The Skating Dutchmen started their 1981-83 campaign on a good note as they edged out North Adams State, ~2, in a preseason opener. It was a good win for the Dutchmen as they defeated a ·playoff team that was 17-6 in Division II last year and finished second in the ECAC's Western Division. The game itself was marred by terrible officiating which led to some dirty play on the part of both teams. The excessively dirty play took a great deal away from what a preseason game is all about. A preseason is like a dress rehearsal. A coach wants to look at how well lines work together, how defensive pairings move the puck, forechecking, and defensive zone coverage. Granted, Coach Morrison would have liked to work on the powerplay and penalty killing on Saturd~y night; but what ~he. saw was too much. There wr--e numerous penalties on both teams that led to a breakdown in the continulty Qf line changes . for Union and two powerplay goals for North Adams. Despite the dirty ~tyle of .play, there were some bright sphts fot the Skatiiig Dutchmen. T<lm Hodgins, a 6'1 \1 195 lb. fresh- man from Ontario, was one of tbe:m. He pumped in two goals in his first varsity game. John Mac~enzie, a freshman . also . from Ontario, played wen on defense and had an assist on all three of Union's goals. It is also a good sign when Union can Win a game · without a Fobare, Knight or Beall getting a point. A well balanced scoring attack will be a key to the success of the Dlltchnlen this year. ., Saturday's game led Coach Morrison to comment, \We have the ingredients for a good team here, but we have to staY · away from the penalties. The . penalties can kill us.\ This is trueto say the least. A team with a good power play can qestroy a team getting over twenty minutes in penalties. On the penalty situation Morrison added, \We have to stop the penalties through the players' self-discipline. And if that doesn't work, we'll start to sit players down/' The penalty situation. is serious. Team _ and self- discipline have to exist to cut down on penalty miqutes. However, it is also important to realize-that the referees. set the · tempo for the game. N referee must make the necessary calls to keep. the play clean. The Skating Dutchmen wil,J face North Adams ag~n near the end of the season in North Adams, It· should be an in- teresting contest. -Hockey Notes-- The new face around Achilles Rink belongs to assistant coach Shaun Teevens. Teevens is a 1982 graduate of Dartmouth College where he played foot- ball and hockey. Teevens replaces Ronn Tomassoni who left Union after one year to join Bill Cleary'.s coaching staff at Harvard. Veteran players say Teevens is equally as intense a coach as Tomassoni and is also better able to communicate and get along with team members, a qualitY. players say Tomassoni seemed to lack . . • the WRUC stars of the game, as chosen by the voices of Union College hockey, Marc Pifko and Scott Wyk>Off, wer,eJ. 1. Tom.Hodgins 2. John MacKenzie 3. Bill Kirby. Skating Dutchman Tod Fobare carries puck during Union's 3·2 preseason victory over No. Adam.s. Union ends preseason play Sat~rday as they face A. t.C. at B:OO·ln Achilles Rink. .......,._ The The

- • \1· J .~ ~ ... f.olJ . i .. ·· . 41 j $ 0 0 a November 11, 1982 ~. . - The 1982 Dutchmen have turned ~;~round a program that has been ailing for years. Pictured here. is an interception by Lenny Huttner In the Middlebury rout of 28-0. The team is ranked seventh in the East in Division Three. . The Finance Student I Southside Committee Forum Johnny and ' Justifies Its Agrees to the College Controversial ISC Circuit: - Actions Membership An Interview . ' p. 3 p. 3 p. 11 .. -

Page 2 OONOORDIENSJS, November 11., 198! Gates Disappear By DOUG LANDON News Editor Some Union faculty and staff · members are beginning to ask, \Whatever happened to the Jackson's Garden gates?\ They refer to the yet unexplained disappearance of the heavy, omate iron gates which once hung at the Garden's entrance behind the statue of Chester Arthur. One can assume that the gates, donB;ted to the College by Kappa Alpha Fraternity in .1925 on the tOOth anniversary of its founding at Union, have been stolen. The who, why, and even when, still remain a mystery to mal)y. Opinions as to when the historic gates were removed are varied but consistent. Some sophomores remember them, Director of Security Clifford Wood estimates that they have been gone over a year, and Schaffer Library's Ruth Anne Evans thinks they were here for Homecoming '81. One student recalls them missing dur~g last December vacation, and Psychology Professor William Huntley believes they vanished sometime while school was in session. These and other people's recollectiolis ''pin· point\ their removal as simply during F.aU Term '81. Clifford Wood recollects the following sequence of events from memory, as no written record seems to exist. One evening (exactly when, is not known), a Security officer at- tempted to lockthe gates for the night, as was customarily done at dark, and found the lower hinge pin of the left gate broken off., and the gate, therefore, not securely fastened. With a chain and padlock, he locked the loose, left gate to the right one and informed Wood, who, in turn, told Maintenance of the · problem. The next day, Security noticed the gates were gone, and observed, truck tire tracks in the mud near the Garden's entrance. Thinking Main- tenance had taken them, Wood did not inform any local authorities and dismissed the incident from mind. A .few days later, he noticed the right gate was returned and the left one replaced by a solid wooden construction. Soon aftet· that, the one remaining gate disappeared, according to Wood. A faculty member suggested to him that Security check the basement of a certain fraternity (not KA), which was done to no avail. Soon after, another wooden structure was hung in place of the right gate. Since then, the ''mystery of the missing gates\ has con~ tinued to intrigue and upset many on campus. .Con- cordlensis hopes , to pursue the whereabouts of these gates. Any information (or dates) con- cerning the wrought iron edifices that hung in the en- tranceway to Jackson's Garden for over fifty-five years is welcomed by both Security and ConcordJensfs. Wood Defends His Forces By MIKE SHERIDAN andPAULCHOQUETTE In a recent intervie.w, Director of the Campus Security and Safety Depart- ment Clifford Wood was asked to describe the role of the Department in campus life. Wood, who has had his present position for eight years, had 30 years of prior experience upon coming to Union. His ex- perience was diverse, and he eventuapy rose to the position of Chief Detective in the Schenectady Police Depart- ment. Since his move to Union, Wood says that the department has been greatly strengthened and improved. One major change which has taken place in the last eight years is the method of training campus security officers. Rather than taking people with little experience and training them to work at Union, ex- perienced people are sought. Currently, according to Wood, there are naany trlghly ex- perienced people on his staff. The majority of these in- dividuals were previously police officers. Up~n coming to Urtion, they are trained for what is expected of them in the campus environment, and have a thorough training in campus security procedures. One of the most difficult parts of the new job for naany officers, Wood claims, is learning to adapt to the Union environment. The personnel are taken through a series of extensive three week programs in which the younger officers are trained by the more experienced senior officers. They are taught crowd and traffic control as well as other procedures. But the most im- portant thing to le3:rn set:medto be how to co-extst wtth the student population. As a new class of freshmen enters Union annually, the student population is continually changing and, thus, so is the atmosphere of the campus. Officers naust be aware of this change and be able to deal with it accordingly. Altogether,\ Wood says, \It jells into a pretty good organization.\ The officers of the Security and Safety Force do not foUow a strict form of regulations which binds them to certain action in given situations. '\l'here are no hard or fast procedures,\ says Wood. Rather officers are taught to rely on their own judgement. The officers do, hoyvever, have to follow a certain form of conduct when communicating with students and especially those breaking the laws. The force must \stick within criminal procedure laws,\ says Wqod, and of course paperwork is necessary because of civil problems. But Wood wants officers to go one step further when dealing with students and says that \procedures can be adapted and are not rigid.\ Campus Security officers must also realize the limitations of their power in campus situations. For example, security officers are no longer placed in events such as parties. Rather, the duty of students to alert campus authorities if problems occur. Even when the campus officers arrive, they have no arrest powers and, according to Wood, \have to do the best they can until the Schenectady Police get here.\ Wood says that the main duty of campus officers lies in the protection of the welfare of the students. Thus, emergency situations Which deal with physical -injury are the department's prime interest. Because of this, there are. always two patrol cars on duty, and usually three on nights when parties are going on. All such cars are equipped with emergency first aid kits. Furthermore, a number of officers are highly trained in first aid and cardio-pulnlonary respiration. · A secondary problem arises Conduct Committee· Confideptiality Stressed By SHARON B~ILENSON Staff The Subcouncil on Student Conduct, commonly called the Conduct Committee, is a committee composed of nine students and a nonvoting ad- visor whose task is to review charges of student misconduct and make recommendations, which may be upheld or amended, to the Dean of Students. The Union College Student Handb9ok explains the Student Conduct Code as well as the workings of the Conduct Committee. The Handbook presents nine violations of the Conduct Code but explains that misconduct is not limited to these. Nonetheless, misconduct in- cludes: improper use of college facilities or property, invasion of personal.privacy, any type of criminal behavior on or off campus, any behavior resulting in bodily harm or threat to pealth, any behavior that is blatantly obscene or offensive, intimidation and-or ver~bal abuse, irresponsible destruction of personal or community property, any behavior that interferes with one's right to conduct academic pursuits in a peaceful uninterrupted en- vironment and violations of rules and guidelines set by College departments. Students, faculty members or others in the College com~ munity may bring charges of misconduct to the Conduct Committee.. Someone who wishes to initiate charges is required to submit a written statement summarizing the events which occurred, in- cluding the names of the ac- cused persons and any wit- with criminal actions, such as trespass and destruction of property. This problem, Wood . suggests, could be brought considerably~ be\ter under control by a joint effort within the campus community. For example, Wood says that apathy on campus is very high. Students, especially, fail to report offenses to Union authorities. Furthermore, doors are left open when rooms are empty and property is left unprotected, am,ong other careless actions. Such mistakes are not made only by students, but faculty and staff as well. This problem can also be controlled, Wood claims; through a devoted campus--wide effort. There are crime prevention lectures and pamphlets, fire safety manuals and other programs available for all students. In addition, there are frequent visits by off campus crime and fire prevention organizations, such as paramedics and rape crisis groups. Cumulatively, the Union College Security Force is one wlrlch aids in all areas of student life. StudeiJ.tS tend to view only the supposed inadequacies of the department and not recognize the im~ provements in equipment and procedures since the ap- pointment of Wood. • esses. The Dean of Students, Recommendations that the Jo h Mammola, or the Conduct Committee may make Assist • t De~n of Students, include reprimands, fines Michael \)lMW.!l_.na then. in· social pr.obatio·n· , . suspension: terviews witnesseS\~l!_d other expulsion and restitution. involved parties and wi'l\t~ ... a Group action may include, as statement of the case, which rs~· -...§,tate d. in the Handbook, pres~nte~ to the person accused plac~Ji.~§!lpi~n, of v10latmg the code. The ac· suspension of pledging and::Oi cused may choose to have the rushing privileges, revocation cas~ heard by the Dean, his of campus recognition or designee, or a member of toe ho.using .privileges, and-or fines. Student _ Affairs staff if he Meaney stresses that cases prefers that the case not go to are kept strictly confidential the Committee. However, if he and that hearings are informal. or she chooses to have the case Some changes in procedure heard. before the, Condu~t have been made Since last year Cormmttee, the . state~ent IS when a confidential report. was presented to .the Committee .by made · available to Con- a member of the Student Affairs cordiensis. · For example, no staff and a date and time for the longer do all · the interested hear.ing is set. In cases in- parties receive reports of the volvmg group misconduct, the committee's findings, and in· Dean may refer cases to the stead, reports go only to .the InterFraternity Council, whose Dean and the President. It is recommendations are subject hoped that With fewer reports to approval by the Conduct circUlated, ·the cbance of a Committee chairperson, Mike siJ:nilar situation occurring will Meaney, and the Dean of be lessened. · Students. . . . . The hearings are informal in All. Conduct Committee that they do not follow Roberts meetmgs are closed. t~ the Rules of Order, nor is there any general campus conunumty, At other set structure to determine a hearing, Co~ittee \?embers who shall speak and when. may. ask questtons of mvolved Despite this infol1nality, the pa~tles and ~e accus.ed may Committee may handle nofonly t>rmg an advisor. The mtent of cases involving violation of ,the hearing is \to provide due school rules but also cases p~ocess to those a:~eged to have involving criininal behavior ·of violated community standards, Union students on or' off cam· and !? make determ!oations of pus. In such cases, it is often to fact. M~aney explams that an the student's advantage to go attempt 1s made to have only before the Conduct Coll1l'nittee one witness present at a time. to instead of an outside authority preve~t one story from m,.. such as the police,. since the fluen~mg another,_ but that the accused student may in this meetmgs are a~ mformal and way avoid getting a criminal rela~e~ as possible~. record. Wtthm three working days of .· · the meeting, the Cominittee Meaney says that bec~use ?f must submit its findings and 1he Conduct Committee s recommendations to the Dean power, \a lot of people h{lve a Students may appeal decisionS strange opinion of (it). 3 ' \But to the Dean and in rare cases he adds, \we're a very ' ' bl f . 1 \ to the President. reasona e group o peop e. DUTCHMAN'S. NIGHT RESERV AllONS Due to the overwhelming success of Dutchmen's Nlght we find it necessary to make reservations easier for you to place and for the Pub staff ·to take. Reservations will be taken at the Student Activities ticket booth located on the first floor of Carneg.ie HaiL When you place your reservation you ·will receive a Dutchmen's Dinner pass, your meal card will be punched, and your student identification c;ard wiiJ be verified. We hope this will minimize delays in seating the night of your dinner. We also hope to avoid over- crowding by limiting reservations to six people per toble. Place reservaf.ions Fridays and Wednesdays between 1 :00 & 4:00 p.m. The staff of the Dutch Hollow Pub would like to thank you for vour patronage. We look f.orward to serving . you. Gary Salerno, Manager Dutch Hollow Pub ADMINISTRATIVE and ENGINEERING· SYSTEMS COLLOQUIUM SPEAKE.R: Dr. Richard A. Shick, Dean, School of Business Administration; Canisius College TOPIC: Philosophies of Bank Regulation and Supervision DATE: Thursday, Nov~mber ll, 1982-3:45 p.m PLACE: Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College -- F BY At cordill PfeSi( the chair co mil ru.nnil \the 1 !IJilte! bY al dollar mone budgE The allow in ore funds club alrea Reac of b< arnor Foru cordi clariJ ands mem Wl budg the : ledb total whic com) the : studt surp majc are i $254, ther1 Fim genE The infOJ they they moil cou1 for tum for for. situ can N last Fin. bud onb Out .II: u I1J .Q .!! iii t: I1J 'i: en ).. .Q 0 .... 0 .c: Q. R or

--- the nake .nes,. sion '. , Cion. or nes. :tses ttial nal. . lur-e •ear was ~on. no ;ted the in- the t is lrts a will lin 1rts my ine the nly of ses of .m- . to go ee, ity :he his .1al of ~''S a ry ,, .l( 1.) Ill .Q .!!! Cii c Ill 'i: co >- .Q 0 ... 0 .c c. CONCORDIBNSIS, ,N'ouember 11, 1982 Forum Goes For Broke By MARCY BURSTINER News Editor At the present time, ac .. cording to Barton Hill, . Vice president of Administration on the Student Forum and chairman of the Finance committee, the Forum is running the risk of going into . ••the red.\ The- Finance Com- mittee has overcommitted itself by allocating, allnost to the dollar, the entire amount of rnoney in the student activity budget to the individual clubs. The Student Forum cannot allow itself to go bankrupt, and in order to avoid running out of funds, .it must rescind and cut club budgets wb.ich have already . been approved. Reaction to this measure iS one of both confusion and alarm among Both club leaders and Forum members. Con- cordiensis, in its attempt to clarifythe issue, spoke with: Hill and several Finance CO:mmittee members. When beginning the budgetary process last spring, the Finance Conunittee, tben led by Pete McCaffrey '82, had a total budget of $254,000 with which to work. This figure is composed of the $228;000 total of the activity fee paid by each student in addition to a $26,.()()() surplus from last year. One major problem, agree all who are involved, is that the sum of $254,000- seemed so vast that there was a tendency of the Finance Committee to be generous when allocating f\lllds. The policy last spring was to inform the club leaders that they would receive less than they requested, but if more money was needed later, theY cou\d come back to the 'Forum for additional funds. Unfor~ tunately, therearenow no funds for these leaders to come back for. The blame for the present situation, according to Hill, cannot fall on any one person. Not all budgets were turned in last spring as requested by the Finance Committee and of the budgets·that were handed in, only 18 of them were reviewed. · Out of the $254,000 in the activity budget, these 18 clubs were allocated a dispropQrtionate amount of $89,000. According to Shari Midoneck, Sophomore Representative and member of the Finance Committee,. aU clubs should have had their bu<lgets in last spring and all shcu}.d-:have been reviewed ·by the committee. This year's Finance Com- mittee,. .composed of Hill, Midoneck, ·Forum mem·bers Barbara Rogers and Steve Nowak, and appointed students Ben Hecksb.er, Rachel Cohen,. and Brian Kocen, were faq~d with over 50 clubs still to be budgeted. All tb:e members with the exception of Hill were new to the Finance Committee and had no·.previous experience with the budgetary process. ''We went in blind,\ explained Midoneck, .. It's-like a bunch of naive .kids trying to put together something that they've never 'seen before, .and we jll$t di(l not know.\ In addition to the ine11:· perience of the members, there was also a time factor involved. The clubs had to begin operations whether or not they had a budget. The club leaders were spending activity funds through the Student Activity office without the guidelines specified . in a budget. The Student Forum._ acc'Ording to Hill, put pressure on the Finance Committee to approve the budgets and the comniittee fo.und themselves trying to review 20 of them in one. night. \It was comical,'' Hill ex- plained, \We were doing the budgets ... but we didn't know- the committee didn't know- wbat the heck was going on.\ After totalling the allocations for fall and spring terms and adding on additional requests, Hill came up with the figure of $178,000. Subtracting that from the original total of $256,000 he was left with the figure of $77,634. In Hill's wor~, \I went in and said 'Hey Dean Mam- mola, 71--looks good doesn't it? And he said, 'Well you know what I recommend Bart, I recommend you take the twenty-six out and .put it away ;..: .. and don•t think about it-it'll be yot:J.r emergency. So 77 becomes 51.,.So we're sitting pretty. All ,of a sudden, Camp Uriion is 25.\ When asked when the realization that Camp Union would cost $25,000, almost. half of what they had left, .suddenly hit him, he replied, \A long time. It took me a long time to realize it.. .. We budgeted Social for Fall Term only and Concert :or Fall Term only. P~y.chologlcally we thought we'd finished Concert and Sodal.\ Hill then added together the figures of $25,000 for Camp Union, $10,000 for Garnet Review, an estim!lted $5,000 for Winter Term Social Committee, and $10,000 for a Winter Concert and came up with almost exactly $51,000. \So we spent all our money ... and then we went, 'Wait a second, we still have 14 clubs to budget and we said we had ·$26,000 for 14 clubs-no we~y. That's when we called the pack.'' Hillmaintainsthat the Forum is running outof money because there had never before been as many clubs to budget as there are t]]is year. It is important to realize, he went on, that the Finance Committee is only about 4 years old and that in the past.~· years there had already been two cases of mismanagement of funds. In 1978 the Forum hadgone into debt and hadto be bailed out by the Achninistration. In 1980, the Finance Committee, of which Hill was then a member, had also over-budgeted and had to enforce a 10 percent across the board cut on all club budgets. He also maintains that the situation is not as bad as some people believe. \People are running .around-honestly, in· telligent people are running around this campus believing that as of today we have a zero 'balance. But that doesn't make any logical sense. On paper we're overcommitted-which is a business thing-But we will not 'go into the red-We just have to make drastic austerity measures.\ Hill also commented that another problem faced by the Committee was that the line items on the budgets that were turned in were not specific enough. For example, on the WRUC budget, $400 was requested for headphones, but Continued on page 4. . ::.> ·< . .,. Barton Hill, Vice President of Administration on Forum and Chairman of Finance Committee Fraternity: Housing Hazards Found By DOUG LANDON News Editor All campus buildings must adhere to certain safety and fire codes prescribed by the College, but in the past these rules have not been fully enforced in some privately owned fraternity houses. According . to Assistant Dean of Students Michael Andolina, the College is \entering in serious negotiations with fraternities\ that are in violation. He notes that both the fraternities and the College are being very cooperative in the matter. An architectural firm working through the Security and Safety Department has gone through the structures in · question and compiled a list of improvements which should be made. The report was coor· dinated by Jack Hill, Director of Campus Operations, and a copy has been sent to the President of each involved fraternity, the president of each fraternity corporate board, and to Vice President for Finance and Administration John Hauser. Andolina and Dean of Students Joseph Marnmola are working witb the brothers and the alwnni boards \to see if the repairs are made and to keep dialogue going with the fraternities,\ said Andolina, who serves as Advisor to the InterFraternity Council. Some of the repairs have already been executed·, and the indiVidual fraternities have set deadlines as to when others will be completed. The houses unowned by the College are Alpha Delta Phi, Sigma Phi, Psi Upsilon, Delta Phi, Chi Psi, and Phi Delta. Kappa Sigma, located off campus, is the exception, and is subject to frequent inspections by the City of Schenectady. Andolina stresses that the issues, in part, \are still being negotiated with the frater- nities.\ The repairs, for the most part, consist of rewiring and repair and installation of fire escapes. Improvements already made were done over the summer, with the brothers doing some of the work. All monies used for repairs thus far have come solely from the fraternities and their alumni boards. For future, more costly renovations, the possibility of loans from the College does exist, believes Andolina, and such recommendations will have to be made by the Office of the Vice President for Finance and Administration and ap- proved by the Board of Trustees. The repairs will definitely be ~made, though, according to Andolina, because \The Alumni, brothers aud the College share one common interest; to keep the buildings on campus in good repair.\ Union· Joins ISC Robert Massa, Director of Financial Aid, addressed Forum on ISC. BIOLOGY CLUB DEPARTMENT SEMINAR Tuesday, November 16,. 1982 4:00p.m. s.s. 117 \EARLY WOMEN BIOLOGISTS: A case study. in Cumulative Disadvantage'' . Dr. ,Patricia Brown Siena CoUege Refreshments 3:40p.m. By JAY BARUCH Staff The Independent Student Coali~ion (ISC) is the only of- ficially recognized statewide organization whereby students at independent colleges have a say in those higher education policies that benefit their best interests. This nonprofit non- partisan organization represents the higher education interests of more than 300,000 students matriculating in New York State's independent colleges and universitites. As of Monday night, the ISC will be joined by 2,034 more students as the Student Forum decided that Union College will join the ISC by a vote of 10 yes, 2 no, and 1 abstention. This final approval by the Forum is the cuhnination of a hmg road which consiSted of lobbying by the editors .of Concordlensis as well as in· fluencing by Bob Massa, Director of Financial Aid. The main issue which prevented Union from joining the ISC was one of money. To join the ISC it costs 50 ·cents per student, which in the case of Union amount to $1,021.50. The major issue was whether funding for the ISC should be prov~ded by the Forum out of student ac- tivities or whether the financial burden should be shared by the Forum and the Administration. The idea of the Administration taking a share of the financial load was suggested by Ilene Landress, President of the Student Forum, in passing to Dean Mammola. When asked about it, Dean Mammola stated that he did not have the money in the budget right now. In addition, he stated that \they (Student Forwn) ought to find the money in their budget. Belonging to the ISC is in . the best interests of Union College. I hope they can find it in their budget. They've got it.\ A question that was raised at the Forum meeting was if Union decided to join the ISC would there be enough interest among the student body to actively participate. More bluntly, the question asks whether the student body knows what the ISC is. \The ISC's mission is to protect crucial student financial aid programs which are threatened with dismantlement and possible extinction; repair programs which no longer meet originally intended objectives; and promote public policies which will afford all students the ability to choose the in· stitutions which are best suited to their needs, abilities and aspirations.\ Basically, the most important aspect of the ISC is that it is a student . organization that represents the independent sector. Bob Massa stated that \we (independent colleges) have to compete for resources. There is strong lobbying on the state level for public schools like SUNY. They are represented by the Student Association of the .State University (SASU) which is well organized and politically active. They made a lot of noise when the trustees of SUNY wanted to increase state tuition, room, and board and they succeeded in preventing the increase.\ The independent colleges are represented by the Commission of Independent Colleges and Universities (CICU). It is a well organized institutional organization to which Union belongs but it is not a student organization. The ISC was only first incorporated in 1976 yet it is respected heavily on Capitol Hill in Washington as well ~·in Continued oil page ,5 \I

,. Page 4 OONCORDIENSIS~ November 1!, 198B .---------------------------------- I \ Funds· Run Out I Disabled AccesS Improved - Continued from. page 3 the number of headphones that would be purchased and the exact price ·Of each set were not specified. Hill admitted tnat he should have explained to the Forum that the budgets could not be approved the way they were due to lack of specificity. When reviewing budgets for next year in the coming spring all purcf1asing requests will have to be accompanied by three competitive retail prices of each item. they could be reached for consultation. A voucher system was created to stop the flow of money from the student ac- tivities office.Clubs hadto have a voucher signed by their Finane.e Representative for each ex- penditure. A letter has been sent to the remaining clubs setting November 19 as a deadline for turning in any budget requests. Any clubs who do not turn .in a budget by that date will receive no funding for the year. No across the board cuts will be made. The Finance Com- mittee felt that sinc.e the budgets were drawn up ac- cording to line items., if ten percent were deducted from each item, clubs would' be unable to purchase many of their requests. For instance, one member pointed out, ten percent cannot be deducted from the price of a rnaga1.:ine subscription or the club would be unable to buy that magazine. ··. -~ By MICH·ELL& NOVELLE\- staff As a result of a ~equirement by the government, which .falls under the Rules and Regulations of the RehabUitation Act, Section 504, Union has begun a Transition . Plan for making the facilities on campus easily accessible to the physically handicapped. Jack Litynski, the Director of Campus Planning and Development, stated that the tr-ansition was in progress and ·will continue to be until the Union ·College has a campus where disabled ,people will be able to function with ease. Litynski founded the plans for Union and has also begUn to do the same for other schools which admired the progress at Union. Litynski said that the renovated areas were done :with regard to . priority. Certain areas are more necessary and more commonly used than others; therefore they must be renovated first. Four areas which were considered to be the most im- portant were Housing, Food Service, the Library and the Science Center. The first floors of both North and South Colleges ·have been made ac- cessible to the handicapped. Th.ey are a'so equipped with the propel: toilet facilities. The Pub can be imteted by the physically ha·ndicapped ..and therefore provide.foodservice. 'rlte entire first floor of Schaffer Library is now acceS$ible, as well as the toilets. The Science Center, a more. modern structure, had been built with the disabled in min <;I. A room in Bailey Hall has been de.signated as an area. to which programs for the han- dicapped can be held. It can also be used as a lounge, a study hall, or a place in which to take breaks. An area in the Science building was. also designated as handicapped lab units. Racks, tables, and other such equip- ment are now in storage but will eventually be used. Litynski noted that beside these four areas many other buildings have been renovated to accommodate the disabled. In the Administration Building the first floor and Cashier's Office are ·accessible, and a second room was designated so as to allow a disabled person to meet with the President. In Silliman Hall, Personnel and the Registrar are now ac- cessible and the infirmary will be soon. Admissions is also available to handicapped students. · Litynski stated that in the future the transition plan in- cludes renovating the sports facilities, Memorial and· Old Chapels, West College, the Arts and Humanities Buildings, and Butterfield and Steinmetz Halls. Eventually aU structures . will be easily' accessible to. the handicapped students. . Litynski pointed out that Union was built as a winter campus and c(lnsists of various levels. Therefote, handicapped students will be transported by vehicles about the campus. It is a slow process but a necessary one. There are many things that must .first be taken into con- sideration. For example, fire alarms for the deaf and reading services for the blind must be provided. Also, physically handicapped people need more water more often than others, therefore fountains of the right height and size must be in- stalled. · Litynski feels that Union has already done much. more in promoting the cause of the handicapped than most other schools. He feels that by looking out a window, one can find some sort .of progress every day. Both Midoneck and Rogers emphasiZe that the Finance Committee is not trying to hurt· the clubs. When addressing club representativl's who were present at a . recent Forum meeting, Midoneck stated, obviously upset by the situation, ··r did not take this job to screw you guys.\ All ·Finance Com. mittee members are asking the indiv:id~cll club leaders to help the Forwn in this situation. They do not want it to be the Finance Committee v. The Clubs. They would rather, according to Midoneck, that the clubs cut their own budgets rather than the Finance Committee cut it for them. It must be noted that the over- budgeting of student funds was not due to a shirking of responsibility of the individual members. Each member was responsible f9r 7-8 club budgets and they each held \office hours\ twice a week in which Both Midoneck and Rogers maintain that there will be a Camp Union and Fitzhugh Ludlow weekend if they ''have any say in the matter.', They add though that the clubs must help cut their own budgets for the sake. of the student body. They both concluded that the committee has learned from its mistake and that the members now have the experience they need• to do things right. CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP· This will be the Last Issue of the Concordiensis Meets Every Tuesday at 4:30 .p.m. in the for Fall Term. 4th Floor Lounge CARNEGIE HALL -Come ioin us for Bible Stu.dy, Singing and Sharing- We will resume on January 13. 1983 v4TTENTION ... G{JNDERGRADS !! GBoston and GN'ew GYork City GA.lumni Career Observation Gflrograms DECEMBER 14, 15 and 16 During Winter Recess the Boston and New York City Alumni Clubs are sponsoring several CAREER PROGRAMS to provide opportunities for you to explore career options and/or see first-hand what various p:rofessionals do in their jabs. Talking and visiting with people who are already working in a field in which you are interested is one of the best ways to expand your understanding of that career. The information you gather ptovi des a foundation for making career decisions and at the same time helps you to begin establishing a network of valuable professional contacts. The programs are: BOSTON AND NEW YORK CITY CAREER OBSERVATION DAYS - December 14, 15 and 16 - Boston and New York area alumni representing a great variety of career fields will host Union students for a day or half day at their places of work. You will have an opportunity to talk with people ~Jho are employed. in careers you are interested in, ask questions, learn how they got started, and find out \what it's really like.\ Sian up at The Career Center ·£!:!. November ~. ]2_ or 17. --- -. - -- NEW YORK TELEPHONE CAREER OBSERVATION DAY - December 16 A 1 imi ted number of students will be hosted for the day by Union alumni employed in a variety, of roles by New York Telephone in New York City. This is an el(cellent opportunity to explore careers in the business world. 1!J!!!. up at The Career Center .£!l November ~ • ..!.§:or ]2. NEW YORK CITY ALUt-1NI CAREER PANEL - December 15 Representatives of several ca-r€ers will discuss opportunites in their fields, their career paths, and will be available to answer questions and offer tips. A buffet dinner will precede this evening event. and parents are welcome to attend. Detailed information about the program, including how to make reservations will be forthcoming in your mailbox. TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO EXPLORE CAREERS NOW ! ! ! Questions ??? Call the Career Center, X6176. Sponsored by the Union College Office of Alumni Affairs, Boston and New York City Alumni Clubs, and the Career Center Scientific & Engineering Society Sigrna XI Fall Lecture Professor Seth Greenberg Psychology .Department ••rhought Processes and Word Recog,nition'' WEDNESDAY, ·NOVEMBER 17 4:30p.m. s.s. 115 Refreshments at 4:00p.m. Anyone going on Winter Term Abroad who would like to be a GATES-MAN 1contact Eileen Blumenthal in. the Admissions QHice as soon as ossible > •• Anyone with information co\cerning the· disappearance of an Ainsworth Top · Loa.der . Ballance, missing from S&E 1st floor south; please contact Chris Chadwick at 370-6911 -- c contin1 Alban: The in th~ Tuiti< (TAP prove1 for WI rnaxir fl .. s~~ (}1illlll $200 ~ eUgit (}13Xil from dition to pla of th• vices are r other aid 1 event Anotl1 was a bytht a$75 New millie tendil This creas then TA the natio1 that, an ott will 1 a war and l have teres state in de~ to pi• Ani the prote whlcl :prot COllE Col11 bact gran of a dolla keep GovE to t chan The that1 the 11

- :he in- rts )ld rts 1nd ~tz ~es :he tat ter ms 1ed. .by ; is try 1at lD- ire ng be lly 1re rs, ~ht in- tas in ihe 1er ng ne CONCOBDl111NSIS, Novem·ber 11, 1a_ss Pager; Coalition Supported IFC Awards Cup , • - I continued .from page 3 Albany. The ISC played a major role in the .. first. increase in . the Tuition .A.ss1stance Program (TAP) in 1978. The im- provements which they fought for were: \an incr.ease in the maximum aw_ard from $~,5.QO~t& ~1.800, an w~r-ease· in the !Ilinimum award from $100 to $200 and . an escalation in the eHgibility - threshold for maximum .award eligibility from $2,000 to $2,700.\ In ad- dition, the ISC made a proposal to place students on the. Board- of the Higher Education Ser- vices Corporation (HESCh who are responsible for TAP ,and other student loan and financial aid programs, and it was eventually signed into law. Another TAP inctease ill 1981 was a result of heavy lobl;lying bY the ISC. The bill provided for a $75 million increase in TAP to. New York student,s with $46 million going to students at- tending independent colleges. This increase included an in- crease from $1.,800 to $2,200 for the maximum award. . _ TAP represents 35 percent of the state grant money nationwide. Massa pointed out that, \Cuomo may not seek another increase in TAP which will mean that the maximum award, $2,200, will mean less and less as tuitions rise.\ We have to protect our own in- terests, As costs escalate and ' state funding remains constant, independent colleges will have to pick up the slack. Another financial issue where the ISC is important is protection of Bundy money, which are direct state ap- :pnrpriations to independent colleges. The state gives Union College $1,200 for every bachelor's degree that is granted. Tltis amounts to a total of approximately' 3 /4 million dollars which Union uses to help keep tuition down. ln 1982 Governor Carey initially tried to balance the budget by changing the Bundy program. The alteration considered was that the state would pay for only the New York resident students who graduate. 'Ibis W()uld bave sliced Union's aid in half and the end result would h~ve be~n a $300 increase in tuitic;»n· per student. . But, as J;Jsb' Massa stated, the IsG~·does not jliSt function to figbt for financial aid-pOlicies in New ¥ork State,. \it is an attitude toward higher education.'' Michael G. Caruso, Executive Director, ISC, testified before the New York Board of Regents on September 10, 1982. He stated tbat, \during the past three years,. toe weighted average tuition increases at New York's independent campuses ex- ceeded $1,600, while tuition at ·sUNY and CUNY campuses incre11sed by only $150.'' He reiterated the fact that students aretransferring to lower priced SUNY and CUNY schools because they cannot meet the spiralling tuitioncosts. He also bro.ugnt up. the cas~ · of · Eisenhower College of RIT which was forced to close. their doors when faced with a defiCit of three million doUars and a projected loss of five million dollars over the next three years. \The most relevant point of aU is that an independent institution of this calibre could be forced to close overnight.\ This bring-s us back to Bob Massa's statement Monday night. \We are never really secure. We always have to be out there fighting.\ In his talk in fr()I!t of the Forum he stated a personal as well as a financial reason to join the ISC. \I consider Union to be one of the top three private, liberal arts colleges in tile state. I arn slightly- bothered that students that come from schools tbat don't have the tradition nor the academic strength that we have are active in the ISC and we are not. It should be our students involved. We should take a major role toprotect our own · interests. We should be leaders in the state becallSe- we are one of the best schools in the state.\ He reiterated the· fact that the ISC is a chance for the students to get educated as far as public policy and interests are_ con- DOYOUB BOOTS HAVE A DRINKING PROBLEMP U Q Most likely the answer is yes. Because . most boots aren't waterproof and; therefore, soak up water1ike a sponge. Timberland® boots are made of waterproof leathers. And every seam is sealed with two coats of latex. To resist rust, all eyeletc; are solid brass. . How dry will Timberland boots keep you? Well, on a machlJ!le (:allc:!CL,J ---- a Maser Flex that tests waterproof leathers, Timberland leathers must withstand a minimum of 15,000 flexes, equal to U.S. Military standards. 'llinberlanil e X Westport Marina, Inc. Westport, NewYork 12993 (518) 962-4356 CONTAC PUS REPRESENTATIVE 370-6564 cemE~tf. The ISC offers in~ ternships at their base in Albany .for which students can apply as well as workshops which are carried out on campuses around the state. The ISC pa:rticipatesin a very active lobbying campaign in Albany as well ~s Washington. On National Student Lobby Day, which was held in Washington on March 1, 1982, there were 5;000 students who attended nationwide, 1;800 of these students were from the rank and file of the ISC. This is just another example how the ISC actively participates in governing the policies of higher education. In contrast to SACU which has a $280 1 000 operating budget the ISC h~s an operating budget of $41,000. It relies heavily on the participation .of students. Bob Massa brought up the point that the difficulty in com- prehending the im:portance of the ISC ,is that it is · an in- tangible, it is something you can't put your hands on. It helps preserve the long term interest. It is not like a regular club or activity.- \Y QU need a college that is sound, -in order to have these experiences.\ Michael Caruso stated in his testimony that \one of the original goals set forth in the ISC's charter back in 1976 was to encourage the state government to develop a coherent long range funding policy for higher education in our state. More than ever, we are inc need of such a policjy.\ As of November 8, 1982 the students of Union College have the chance to contribute and make a difference. Since the Forum approved the joining of Union to the ISC the question arises as to what the next step - will be. In the immediate future, representatives of the ISC will ;be on campus to help guide .Union's participation. The Student Forum did their part and now it is up to the students. Present~y, the Chairman of the ISC is a senior at Hartwick College and the Vice-Chairman is a senior at Skidmore College. • . Massa stated tbat \we could put up the money and sit back and not do anything. We should not join unless students put time into it. Our students have to get the college name out and their own .name out. We should take the leadership position.\ _ By JAN BARAN Staff The tradition of rivalries among the sixteen fraternities is a strong one on the Union campus .. Recently, the Inter- Fraternity Council recognized this tradition of rivalry by awarding the Stephen P. Bl'lown Memorial Trophy at the Homecoming football game. The recipient of this year's award was the Sigma Chi Fraternity. - . The competition for this trophy, known as the Brown Cup, centers atoWld the idea of promoting a good sense of spirit among the sixteen fraternities and among the members of the College community. John Wheeler, President of the Inter- Fraternity Council, commented . on this aspect of the award when he said: \The Brown Cup strikes a good medium between what the fraternities pursue in their best interests and what the college desires of the sixteen fraternities.'' In order for a fraternity to receive this award, it has to score well in all five of the categories established by the Inter-Fraternity Council. The four traditional categories have been the following: achievement in. academics, participation in extra curricular activities, athletics, and charity. This year, a fifth category, participation in Greek Week-, was added \to encourage involvement in the activities of Greek Week.\ As a result, a special effort was made to insure that the Green Week competition WllS held before Homecoming weekend so that the tradition of designating the winner at the football game was upheld. The awarding of the trophy is based on a point system, whereby each fraternity is given a ranking between one and sixteen in each of the five categories. The sum of the five rankings, with a ranking of one indicating the highest achievement, Is then taken for each fraternity. The fraternity with the lowest sum receives the Brown Cup, a fraternity's out$tanding contribution to the - College community is recognized by tne \retiring\ of the cup. This \retiring\ gives the fraternity the privilege of keeping the cup within the house. - The Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy, therefore, is awarded to a fraternity which, according to IFC President John Wheeler, is best able \to serve the .interests of both the School and the members themselves.\ By serving those interests, Sigma Chi received the distinguished honor of being awarded the Brown eup at the October 15, 1982, Homecoming football game. BE SERIOUS!! Concordiensis Needs News Writers CALL 61-5.5 6923 or 6762 GET INVOLVED Learn What 1 S Happening .In and Around Campus. ·······················-·····--···· i 1982-83 Winter Term I I I 1 Registration Procedu.res 1 I I I Winter term classes will begin at 8:30a.m. on Monday, January 3rd. 1 I Student schedules will be distributed to college mailboxes prior to the 1 . beginning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy of their class 1 I schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Alumni Gymnasium at 8 a.m. 1 I on the first day of classes. 1 I Formal registration and validation of I. D. cards will take place in the I 1 1 Alumni Gymnasium on Monday and Tuesday, January 3rd and 4th, from I 8:30a.m. to 11:30a.m. and from 1:00 to 4:00p.m. Students should report · 1 as follows: I I • Last Name Report I · A-·E Monday morning I I F-K Monday afternoon I 1 L~R Tuesday morning I I S-Z Tuesday afternoon I I I I I Students may report at a time other than above should classes in- I I terfere. 1 Registration will not be permitted if a student has not settled his winter : I I term bill or any other indebtedness to the College. The Business Office I will handle late payment of term bills and resolve billing problems at the 1 Gymnasium. · . I 1 Completion of and changes in schedules will be handled at the Gym- 1 I nasium from 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. except for the noon hour. Friday, 1 January 7th is the last day for making schedule adjustments. 1 1 1 11 Pass-Fail'' requests may be filed during the first week of the term. 1 . The deadline is also January 7th. , 1 I . ..................................... .: ''

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, November 11, 198B · Final Examination ·schedule IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarily ,for regular \day\ undergraduate E.S. 3()....Mechanics .of J)eformable Solids-Panlilio--SHUO · courses. A separate schedule for Graduate Studies and Continuing Education. E.S. 3()....Mechanics of Deformable Solids-Weiss--BU106 courses will be announced, and students in 1 'Section 51 or 52\ courses should be. E.E. 133--conununication Ciii!tiits-Hassib-SHlOl alert for the announcement ofthe exam tiine for those courses. . . . Conflicts in examillations shOuld be reported to Mrs. 0' Amato in the.Office of the 'l'HURSDA Y, DECEMBER z • z ~00-4:00 p.!!\. · Registrar not later than November 19, 1982 Sociology 141--Crime ~d Justice in Society-Fluggins-HU117 Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the · . Chemistry 36--0rganic Chemistry I, Sec. 1--Martin-BHZ~l · buildings to ~ used. . Chemistry 304)rganic Chemistry I, Sec. 2;.....Hull-BH207 AB.,-Arts Building C.S. 3.7-structured Progtamming-Hannay-BU204 BH-Bailey Hall BU-Butterfield Hall HU-Humanities Building N-North Wing, Science-Engr. Center OC-Old Chapel PY -Psychology Laboratory S8-Social Science Building SH-8teirunetz Hall · · CH--Carnegie Hall FRIDAY,. DECEMBER 3 • 9:00.11:00 p.m. Liberal Learning 56-Special Topics in Geology-8tone--;BU201 Classics 21-.History of Greece-Zigelis--HU114 Latin 143-Roman Drama-Zigelis-HU1l4 Economics 32....;Labor and Industrial Relations-Prospeto.SSl:l5 English 19-Major English Authors: Chaucer.;Milton, Sec. 1-Murphy .... HU115 . History U....;History andSociety: 11te ModerniZation and Growth of Global Society- Finkelstein, Hansen-HU019 History 16-America: From Colonies to Nation-Wells-SS117 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1 • 9:00..11:00 a.m. French lQ-Basic French I-Warger-HU116 Freshman PreceptoriallO-Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 5-J. Boyer-HU014. ·French 12-Basic French III-McDermott-HUUO Arts 4tl-Introduction to Music, Part I--Wilson-AB204 ··German l()....Basic Gennan I-Warde-HUU2 Latin !()...Principles of Latin-8orum-HU016 Philosophy 12-PhUosophical Problems-Davis--HU117 Economics to-Elementary Economics, Sec. 3-Klein-HU114 Political 'Science U....;Contemporary American p.olitics, Sec. t-Oaniels-88113 Economics 11-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-8chmidt-8Sll7 Sociology to-Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 1--Weiner-BU204 Economics 42-Macroeconomic Theory and Policy-Love-S$112 Biology 23-The Cell-Core ill-G. Smith, Lambert-88016 I English 18-Introduction to tht¥ Study of Literary Forms-Wineapple-.HU112 _ • Biology 154.-'Chordate Embryology-Rappaport-88110 English lg..,.Major English Authors: Chaucer-Milton, Sec. 2-8tevemlon-HU1l7 ·Chemistry 152-Physical Chemistry II-Anderson-BH104 . English 51-Chaucer-Murphy-HU115 . . Physics 11-Introduction to PJ!ysics I (Engineering, Chemistry, Mathematics and History 18-The United States .in the 20th Century-,Jonas-SS115 Physics Majors)-Ahmad-8S014 History 4a;...Europe in the Early Modem Era.....,Hansen-HU019 Physics 13-lntroduction to Physics II (Biology, Science, Humanities and Social · History 65-East Asian Civilization--china and Japan.....:Thurston-8SU3 Science Majors)-Ohanian-BH106 Spanish 10-Basic Spanish I-Ginsberg-oHUllO Physics 42-Great Ideas of Modem Physics-Peak-8H-100 Spanish 133-The Spanish Lang~ge in Practical Use I-Di Salvo--HU116 Psychology 1()....A First Course in Psychology, Sec •. 2-calabria-PY113 Philosophy 15-Philosophy and Existential Literature-Patrik-8Hl01 Psychology 2G-Statistical Me~ods .in Psychology-Greenberg-P\'102 Political Science 11--contemporary American Politics, Sec-. 2-Tidmarch-SS014 E.S. to-Mechanics I, Sec. l-Weiss:-BU106 Anthropology to-Introduction to Cultural Anthropology-G. Gmelch-SS012 • E.S. 22-8cience of Eugineering Materials.....Millllo--BU109 . Biology 32-'Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy-Butterstein-BU104 E.S. 26-'l'hermodynamics and Heat Transfer-8hanebrook...;BH201 Biology 66-Sex and Sexuality-Lambert-88016 C.S. ·18-Introduction to Computer Organization--Russ-SH110 · Biology 158-Plant Morphology-Frohlich-SH100 Biology 180-Biochemistry-Birecka-BHt06 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3 • 2:oo:-4:00 p.m. Chemistry 40-Quantitative Chemistry-Wemer-N222 Freshman Preceptoriall()....Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 10-Kaminsky-8U014 · Mathematics 18-Introduction to Logic and Set Theory, Sec. l-Rosenthal-BH104 Arts 74-C)assical Art and Architecture-Mendelsohn...cH205 Physics 11-Introduction to Physjcs I {for class of t986), Sec. 2-8chick-BH201 . English 76-Modern American Novel-Gado--HU112 Physics t3-Introduction to Physics II (Engineering, Chemistry, Mathematics and History 59-Revolution in China: Empire tq People's Republic-Thurston-sS113 Physics Majors)-Jones-SHllO Hebrew l()....Basic Hebrew I-Heckehnan-HU110 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 3-Spring-PY102 Philosophy 134-Analytic Philosophy-Ludwig-HU119 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 4-Benack-PY113 Sociology 39-Socioldgy of the Family-Kaplan-8Sll7 Psychology 37-Psychology through Literature-Calabria-PY204 Accounting 10-Financial Accounting-Arnold-BH207 Psychology ~Introductton to Psychobiology-Markiewicz-PY213 Psychology 48-Clinical Models of Psychotherapy I-Dowling~PYU3 E.L.L. t()....Technology in Historic Perspective-Griggs-CH205 E.S. 41-liJlectric Circuits I, Sec. l-Kum~HU114 E.S. 42-Electric Circuits II-Goodheart-8H203 E.S. 41~Electric Circuits I, Sec. 2-Branch-N116 C~E. 41-Legal Aspects of Engineering-Harlow-BU106 C.S. !()...Perspectives on Computer Languages and Software-Hannay-BH201 C.E. 165-Systems Analysis-Jewell-BU300 . Mathematics 08 (A.O.P.)-Pre-Calculus Mathematics-Yeater-BH102 E.E. 30-System Theory I-Craig-BU109 English 09 (A.O.P.)......Critical Reading and Writiilg-Longley-ssuo WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1 • 2:00-4:00 p.m. Economics to.-Elementary Economics, Sec. 1-Prosper-8SH5 Economics 11-Elementary Economics, Sec. 1-Kenney-sSOlO Economics 141-Monetary Economics-Phaup-SS113 Spanish 12-Basic Spanish III-Vinick-HU119 Biology 130-Comparative An!!rn\1 Physiology-Lambert-88014 Chemistry 1().-Fundamental Chemistry I-8chaefer, Foust, Werner-BU204 Geology 51-0ceanography-Zimmerman-BU109 Mathematics lOO-Orthogonal Functions and Boundary Values-Bick-BH108 Physics 22-Electronic Circuits-Jones-SHlOO Physics 22-Electro .nic Circuits-J ones-SH100 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (for class ofl986), Sec. l-Pilcher-BH201 Psychology to.-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. t-Huntley-PYt02 E.S. 10-Mechanics I, Sec. 2-Lakhanpal-BU104 E.S. 20-Mecbanics II-Panlilio-N116 E.S. 26-Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer-8hanebrook-8H110 C.E. 142-8oil Mechanics-Griggs-BUt06 E.E. 33-Analysis & Design of Electronic Circuits-Hassib-HU115 E.E. 143-Electromagnetic Engineering I-Branch-SH101 C.S. 11-FORTRAN Programming for the Social Sciences-Russ-SS112 C.S. 34-Cobol and Information Processing-8chwarz-BH207 mURSDAY, DECEMBER 2 • 9:00-11:00 a.m. Freshman Preceptoriall()....Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 7-Wells-SSOlO Freshman Preceptorup !()...Perception and Persuasion, Sec. ·s-navis-HU014 MONDAY, DECEMBER 6 • 9:00-11:00 a~m. Arts 78-Building in Metal, Glass and Concrete: Architecture from 1850 to the Present-Andrew--cH205 English 45-Philosophical Fiction-Gado--HUllO Philosophy to-Freshman Seminar in Philosophy-Ludwi'g-HU117 Philosophy 30-Greek Philosophy-Peterson-HU116 Philosophy 76-Phllosophy in Law-R. Taylor-HUU5 . Philosophy 149-Topics in Contemporary European Philosoplly-Patrik-HU114 Political Science 32-American Political Thought-Brown...SS115 Sociology 153-sociology of the Handicapped-Weiner-$Sl13 Statistics 1()....lntroduction to StatiStics-Holmes-BH104 Accounting 10-Financial Accounting-Hurley-BH207 · Biology 16-Introduction to Biology I-Tobiessen, Schadler-88016 Chemistry 118-Inorganic Chemistry II-8caife-N116 Psychology 24-Social Psychology-Muirhead-PY102 C.S. 131-Introduction to Compilers-Federighi-BU204 Chemistry 01 (A.O.P.)-Introduction to Chemistry I-Enokian-BH102 I MONDAY, DECEMBER ·6 • 2:00-4:'00 p.m. Economics 1().-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2 & 4-J •. Dawson-85016 Economics l()....Elementary Economics, Sec. 5-Love-SS115 Economics 31-Microeconomic Analysis-Reynolds.......SS112 Russian 133-The Russian Language in Practical Use I-Jernakof£-HU213 Philosophy Go-Issues in Feminism-Patrik, Ludwig-HU016 Mathematics 41-Linear Algebra I, Sec. ~2-Neifield-BH203 E.S. 11-Engineering Graphics-Harlow-BU300 F.E. 66-Intelligent Life in the Universe-Ohimian-8H100 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 7 • 9:00.11:00 a.~. Arts l()....Introduction to the Arts-Dellario, Robbins-AB202 Mathematics l()....Calculus I Greek 10-Principles of Greek-8orum-HU213 Sec. 1-8tone-BH201 Economics 53-The Economy of China-Reynolds-SSU3 Sec. 2-Fairchild-BH207 English 22-Major American Authors: The American Renaissance-Wineapple-. Sec. 3-Muckenfuss-BU2011 HU112 . Sec. 4 ..... Fairchild;_,BH207 English 46-Modern Drama-Frazier-HU114 · Sec. 5-Rosenthal-BH203 English 61-Rise of the Novel_;Tharsing-HU117 · Sec. 6-Bick-BH108 History 40-The Crusades: Christianity and Islam in Conflict-sargent-8Sl12 . Sec. 7-A. Taylor-HU115 History 62-Latin America Since 1825-Bristol-88014 Sec. 8-Muckenfuss-BU204 French 20-Intensive French-McDennott~Iru113 Sec. 9-Zimmerman-88113 French 131-Introduction to the Study of French Literature-Warger-HU016 Sec. l()....A. Taylor-HU115 German 138-Introduction to German Literature and Civilization-Warde-HUllO Sec. 11-Neifield-BH104 Russian 10--Basic Russian I....Jernakoff-HU116 · See. 12-Barbanel,SS112 Philosophy 20-Classical Logic-Kaminsky-BU300 Mathematics 12-Calculus II, Sec. 1 &. 2-Zwicker-88016 Political Science 47-Law and Public Policy-Board-SS115 Mathematics 14-CalcUlus IJI, Sec. 1 & 2-8e~en-s8l15 ·Sociology 18-Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 2-Huggin~BH207 Mathematics 14-Calculus III, Sec. 3-8tone-BH201 Biol.ogy 51-Ecology-George-Nll6 . Mathematics SO--Ordinary Differential Equations Biology !50-Evolutionary Biology-J. Boyer-BH205 . Sec. 1-Maddaus-BH109 Mathematics 18-lntroduction to Logic and Set Theory, Sec. 2-Zimmerman-BHlOO Sec. 2-Gillette-BH205 Mathematics 41-Linear Algebra I, sec. 1-Fairchild-BH104 Sec: 3-RoliSseau-BU 106 Mathematics 141>-Advanced Calculus I-8eiken-BH203 Sec. 4-Maddaus-BU109 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (Biology, Science, Humanities and Social ·Mathematics 130-Complex Analysis-Barbanel-88112 Science Majors)-Davis-BU109 . Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 5-Markiewicz-PY113 Psychology l()....A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 6-Greenberg-PY102 ' Psychology 38-Developmental Psychology-Benack-PY213 · E.S. 22-Bcience of Engineering Materials-Kapp--BH108 TUESDAY, DECEMBER '1 • 2:00-4:00 p.m. English 27-Gomedy-Heinegg-88016 . German 12-Basic German III-Mache-HU018 Anthropology 11-Comparing Cultures Through Film-G. Gm,elch-8SU5 Ph hund with< CQlle LeC~ co·Ol abro, Frail will both M< his a Lett! Rem proft Depl LaD; univ Rem the chai Hi Uni< brin The T1 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • •

-- OONOORDIENSIS, November 11, 198e Page 7 I .. : .. · .... ·.. . . - j FEATURES Rennes ColleagueWruman Honor and Unionl ' . ·~ By MICHELLE NOVELLE Staff Pierre' LeCalvez has known »unclredS of Union students without ever having ·bee(lon the . C-ollege grounds. · Since 1969 LeCalvez has been the .French co-ordinator of the terms abroad program in Rennes, France. This winter LeCalvez will cqme to Union and teach both French 10 and French 133. Monsieur LeCalvez received his advanced degree, Licence es Lettres, from the University of Rennes ·in 1964. He is now a professor of English !n the Department of Applied Modern Languages at the same university. Wllile a professor at Rennes, LeCalvez has also held the .positiOJl of department chairman. His long association with Union was a great influence in bringing him to Schenectady. The College feels that having Monsieur LeCalvez ·1ieJ;e will give tbe students fil1st.lland expelj_e·nd with a nati-ve spealter's approach to te~cbing the given language. The College also feels that it will add dimension to the class. Most students from French 133 eventually go on to Rennes and Monsier LeCalvez will be better able to assist those ln need. LeCalvez also has his own reasons for coniil\g. The chance to teach at Union will e11.able him to eXperience American education at the college level. When the English lang11age is. · taught abroad it almost always is with reference . to Great Britain; therefore LeCalvez will be exposed to many forms of Englisll not taught· abroad. Also, after having been in touch with Union for thirteen years, he will fin;tlly be able to see all that he only imagined before. By MICHAEL DEVITO Staff The Harry S. Truman Scholarship is an educational scholarship .program for out- standing students who are preparing· for careers in which they would serve the public. The scholarship was established by the Federal Government as a memorial for the late president. In order to compete for the 105 available spots, a student first must be nominated by a Union professor. These students are selected on a nation-wide basis, and the winners receive $5,000 to put towards years· of study in public service related fields. TI,le Trwnan Scholarship is designed to help students out financially as· they approach their goal- to bold a position in government. The scholarship is lucrative for the chosen in- · dividuals, but the· money can be applied only to tuition fees. The $5,000 award can be used in the students' junior and senior years at any undergraduate institution and for the first two years of graduate studies. ''The competition for the Truman award is brutal,\ said Professor .James Underwood, Chairman of the Political Science Department, who is in charge of the selection process at Union. Students must be nominated to compete; up to two students can be chosen no matter the size of the ina stitution. Eligible students must meet rigorpus standards. They must be ,either a U.S. citizen or a national, study in a field that will permit admission into a graduate program leading to a career in government, and must have a grade poj.nt average of 3.0 or higher, which means being in the upper fourth in their class. The major qualification to receive the award is the potential shown for leadership in government. Nominated students who have already gone through one selection process at Union. go on to, a regional contest. The next level is the semi-final competition. These students are selected by showing how they intend to be involved in government in the future. They must be serious about themD selves and serious about th'eir commitment to the public. The students must have a record of community involvement, high academic promise, integrity, self-confidence, sensitivity to others, and the' ability to cogently explain complex situations. · After filling all these requirements, only 105 students can be chosen. Of these, fifty represent their residents states, while others are winners at large. Alternates are also picked .in the event that one of the winaers is unable to begin his studies as a Truman Scholar. To qualify to represent Union, students must show that they have the ability to meet all the necessary requirements to be a Truman Scholarship winner. Their academic and conununity record must be extensive in high school as well as in college. Interviews and applications are given to prospective can- didates. The competition to represent Union is as tough as the national competition. Junior Tim Smith was awarded the alternate position last year, which is the best any Union student has done since the program was founded five years ago. The Truman Scholarship is a high honor, besides the lucrative amount of money that is awarded. Winners are respected and far between. The selection process has already begun this year at Union. At press time, Union's representatives had not yet been chosen. Ask The Expert Dr. Norman Birnbach Expert in Student \Affairs'' \'-By popular demand a.nd critical acclaim (and because Dr. Birnbach is back from . Switzerland and better than ever) we bring you .another - inf&rma tive, thoughtful, responsible Ask The Expert. Dear Dr. Birnbach, breasts, then they should be the ones who are ashamed or embarrassed! They are not giving you credit for being a real, sensitive person, which you obviously are. This type of thing has happened all too often. I wish people would learn ·to judge people on what type of human being they are rather than by sex or by race; color, or creed. Dear Norman, notbing personal, you un- derstand. (signed) I Didn't Learn Anything From Your Above Answer. Dear \I didn't learn anything from your above answer,\ Why don't you just read my answer above? Dear Dr. Birnbach, SA.T\JRDAY NOV. I~ BAND OoNGi.~-t What should I do? I think all the girls on my floor hate me. Maybe they're jealous of me because I wear a size 38 ODD bra. Do you think I should have breast reduction surgery to alleviate friction? I feel inferior because everyone judges me by the size of my breasts. Please help - I'm really depressed. I have been wondering this for a while: Why is there a hand on your shoulder in your picture? I have never met you, never even seen you in person. The reason I ask is that someone told me that you had three arms. At first I didn't believe that, but a lot of other people told me the same thing, so now I'm not sure. If you do have three arms, boy, you must be weird! What kind of sickie are you? 1 mean, here you · are, trying to help the public, presumably because you know about such things, yet you're not normal, with .your extra, mutated, gross arm - Could you please tell me how far away those mountains are that rise behind Fox and Davidson, and whether or not this is part of the Adirondacks? 7=!;0 MeMOR..1Al- GHAPEL FREE ADMISSI.ON A Busted Ego Dear Miss E~o, Since you didn't like the advice I gave you last time I was surprised that you wrote' in again. Obviously, you are upset. by the hand genetics has -d:eal.t you. All I can tell you is that you .shouldn't be ashamed or embarrassed or anythmg. If people are jealous and judge Back by popular request: (Signed) I Didn't Have A Funny Name Dear Funny Name, No, I can't tell you how far away are those mountains that rise behind Fox and Davidson. Also, l have no idea if they are part of the Adirondacks. What do you think I am, FWlk & Wagners? I'm just an expert in student \affairs not an expert in dwnb questions! ! If you want an answer, try Ranger Rick. A GERMAN NOVEMBERFEST ~at the Rathskellar Thursday, Nov. 18th, ·s p.m. MENU----~~--~--~--~~--------------~ . . Soup Graupensuppe mit Huhnerkiein (Barley soup with chicken) CHOICE of Entrees: Saurerbraten tmarinaied beef) Weiner schnitzel (breaded veal cutlet) -includes a choice of katoffel pfann kuchen (potato pancake) or kartoffel sal at (hot German potato sa lad) Salad Bar · Dessert: Black Forest Cake· SPATBARAU DARK BEER ON TAP First come, first serve basis. <I

Page 8 OONOORDIFJNSIS, Novemb~r 11, 198! .. ; FEATURES- News ByBOBVANVORIS Staff • 1n Tylenol Copycat Stalks Campus In the aftermath of the recent Extra-Strength Tylenol killings, it has been announced that an equally menacing \copycat\ killer has been stalking Union College for the past several days. Administration officials warn that the killer has until now limited his attacks to six- year med students, but that the entire campus community should remain alert. It seems that the unknown ki1ler has been secretly buying such books as \Introduction to Organic Chemistry\ and \Comparative Vertibrate Anatomy\ from the College Bookstore - replacing key sections with pages from ··Goofy Goes to the Circus\ - and returning the adulterated books to the. bookstore's shelves. So far the death toll numbers the suicides of three pre-meds apparently despon- dent over poor grades. Credit for the early discovery of the bookstore link goes to off-duty T.A.'s Morris John and Chet MacArthur. Said MacArthur: \Morris and I were grading tests and noticed answers like 'Golly, Mickey, look at the elephants' and 'Gee mister, can we buy a ticket too?' \ The Student Senate is presently considering a proposal which would require manufacturer's seals on textbooks to be sold at the college. Wasblo~n ~otes Richard Nixon, this past Brief weekend, celebrated his sixty- - ninth birthday at a Washington party held in his honor and attended by several hundred friends and well .. wishers. After an emotional speech in which he suggested that \the clock has not yet run out on Richard Nixon,\ the former president made a wish and blew out all of the sixty-nine candles on his birthday cake. While the general mood of the party was festive, a guest's question concerning Nixon's birthday wish drew a surorisingly sharp \No comment.\ In other Washington news, Library of Congress officials have reported the mysterious disappearance of the infamous \Watergate Tapes\ along with the First, Fourth, and Sixth Amendments to the Con- stitution. No e;!Q)lanation was offered. New Course Offered Among the courses to be offered this winter term we find Psychology 115, ''The Psychology of _ Stupidity.\ According to Bob ·Quinn, originator of the course and visiting Professor -of Psychology, there has been a bit of student confusion concerning the subject matter of the course. \It's very simple, really,\ explains Quinn, \the actions of certain people have no logical connection to their environmental stimuli. At the same time, these people display no real mental or psychological defect and are able to fwtction somewhat normally. In short, these folks are just plain stupid. . 1 that you put on the refrigerator? 3} If a lizard didn't have any feet, would U be a snake? .. , I'm not sure I'm prepared to answer these questions. Are you? Food for thought. News in Brjef welcomes res p.o ns ibl e opp os.ing viewpoints. All questions and editorial comments should be· ~ directed to: LeroY '\Junior\ ~ Burdell, Jefferson County ~- CorrecUonal Facility, J·ef .. ~ ferson, Arkansas,. 50110. C/1 ~ .QJ .z ·o 0 .s:: -0. Nuclear Freete ~curity announ<>:es new ·~get tough'' campus .parkfng,cpolicy. By a vote of . . . Well I'm watehin' my TV, and a man com.es on to tell me some useless information supposed to fire my imagination .:.... I can't get uo, no no no ... hey hey key • . . that's what I say. Student leaders believe that this resolution will lead to some positive action in the area of ... I can't get no .•. satfsfaetion. I can't get no ... satisfaction but Hry, and Itry, and I try, and I try- I CAN'T GET NO .• , NO NO NO ••• HEY HEY HEY •.• THAT'S WHAT I SAY ... Would someone please turn that off? I'm trying to type! . . . Oh, sorry, I guess I'm done. We hope to study them.\ Among the topics to be covered iri the course are \The Game-Show Host in America'' and ''People Who Shout 'Hold On, I'·m c-oming' When the Phone Rings.\ Also included will be a field trip to a professional wrestling match, a two-hour videotape of ''Laverne and Shirley\ episOdes and a guest lecture by Rip Taylor. Quinn believes that these events will ''help us get into the mind of the stupid per$on. '' Editorial in .Brief As students at Union College, each of us spends countless hours preparing ourselves for the careers which we will pursue in a few short years. Realizing this, it becomes 1 apparent that we are not the- irresponsible children that we once were. Accordingly, there are certain inevitable questions and doubts which plague the college student and. which must be answered before he can move on into the real world. I feel that the tru1y mature . student will recognize this and stand up to the uncertainty and self·doubt that these highly personal searchings may un· -- cover. A bit of soul searching and quiet reflection yielded these questions for me 1) Why don't they make ''Peanuts'' sympathy cards? 2} How many Americans are employed in making those 'little magnets J.S.O. Hillel Presents the First Annual, TRI- CitY MtX·E Ron Saturday, November 13 at 9:00 p.m. in SUNY Albany's Dutch Quad U-Lounge. Also at the Mixer will be the Hille Is -of SUNY Albany, Skidmore, R.P.I. and Russel.l Sage. If you want more info or can offer transportation, please c~ II Dave at 370-6648. YOU'VE STILL GOT TIME TO ... JOIN THE 'PICK COULD YOUR CAMPUS GROUP USE A QUICK $500-$1,000? YOU'VEGOTTHETIME ... WE'VE GOT THE PLAN! Miller .Brewing Company and our local .distributor are be determined at the cooclusion of the contest. So conducting an exciting six week contest on your .campus. remember. make your .next pick up- a Miller High Life, Your organization could qualify for one of the three Lite or Lowenbrau. Quality pays off in many ways!! Con- $1,000.00 or three 1500.00-cash awards. Winners will tact your local Miller Campus Rei). for more details. MID-POINT STANDINGS ===========;======= 1. Zeta Beta Tau · · 3. Chi Psi 5. Sigma Chi 2. Delta Upsicon 4. Psi U sllon , 6. Delta _ De.lta D~lta · - .:;:.;;;;: B Re tacU opini cons diSC1 issu~ On 1 Gal'! jour debt to r new cont by Unic be < and idee Tl Rev Ma1 Klir will dec: and the H ori~ con edii the ami Ovc Jos pia am tho he' the wb 1 Jo: aft ott ca: IDE rei thE po di~ Wil IDE frE m~ op

- - le :d >e Ill ;e >r !S g I~ 1e \ y f- Ill ID 1e to t't . .1t is le ' . I lt I 0 ld '? l, '· OONOOBDIENSIS, November 1,1, 1982 ·Page 9 ' ) . ' - FEATURES Garnet Reviewe. 1 BY DAVE FITZGERALD . Staff agree with y-.;;ur opinion, that person ,can write something to . t!A.press his~her views. Also, an interesting possibility that could happen is that professors with different views will openly air their opinions. Josel hopes that he will be able to go to professors and say, \Professor X said ... What do you have to say?\ Recently some stu.d~nts and faculty have expressed the opinion that there is a lack of constructive and meaningful discussion of the important issues of our time on campus. On Tuesday, November 16, The Garnet Review, a student-run journal of opinion will make its debut on campus and attempt to remedy this prQblem. This new aampus publication will ,contain conunentaries written by students and faculty at Union. The commentaries will be on a wide variety of issues and refJ.rect very different ideological v·iews . Both Mason and Josel say that the initial response from students and faculty has been good and that professors are willing to write commentaries. They would also like to JX)int out that The Harnet Review is not intended to take the place of Union Views,. the now defunct campus investigative magazine, Mason and Josel think that there is enough in~ terest on campus to make this project a success and. that more interest will .develop when .people read conunentaries tbat they strongly. disagree with. According to Josel, some of the. commentaries for the first issue are quite opinionated and he hopes that people will have opinions they will want to ex- press other views. Wayne Josel;. Hal Mason, George Callard and Hal Kline are editors of The Garnet Review. · The executive board of the Review is made up of . Hal Mason, Wayne Josel, Chris Kline and George Callard. It will be their responsibility to decide what will be published and to write the editorials for the journal. Nuclear War Manual Hopefully, The Garnet Review will be a success,. but it will take the whole campus .community and not just the dedication of a few. If you would like to know more, feel free to contact anyone on the executive· board. By MATTNANKIN The following is Matt Nankin's SECOND EVER editorial. lt was originally bPoadeast Aprilll, 1982 and was rebroadcast last Sunday evening in its original form. It · appears here, for the first tillie, .in print.: Lately people have been coming up to me and saying, \Matt the United States and Soviet Union are armed to the teeth with nuclear weapons. The threat of nuclear war is constantly around us. What are we going to do about it?\ Well, to be truthful, I don't know. However, I have given the issue . a solid fifteen minutes of thought and I have developed a list of possible solutions to this apocalyptic problem. So here it is: The Nankin Nuclear War,, Avoidance Manual. Hal Mason thought of the original idea for a journal containing commentaries and editorials last year. Josel liked the idea when Mason told him and he decided to work on it. Over the summer Mason and Josel kept in contact finalizing plans, writing a constitution, and forming a budget. Mason thought of the journal because · he \ ... felt there was a need for the students to know more about what is going on in the world.\ It is hoped by Mason and Josel that .students and faculty, after reading the opinions of other faculty and students on campus; will write com-. mentaries and-or letters in rebuttal. The whole purpose of · the publication is to keep im- portant issues continually discussed. If you do not agree with what a student or faculty member writes, you are then free to write a letter or com- mentary to express your opinion. If someone does not Polittcol Forum, Women's Network and The Women's Commission present l. Each week send federal prisoners, delinquent tax payers, unemployed govern- ment workers and other parasites to some remote island in the Pacific. Then drop a nuclear bomb on them and telecast the explosion and the after effects live (via Satellite).· This will constantly remind people how bad these weapons are, eliminate undesirables, and I am sure such a program will get good ratings on prime- time network television. Karen Bernstein on \Women in Politics\ Thursday; Nov. ll, 7:30 pm Strauss 2. Let's send all our top government leaders to Moscow and have them send all their top Communist officials to Washington. Neither country's leaders will attack the other if they are living there at the time. Sigma XI, the Science and Engineering Professional Society presents: ••rhought Processes and Word Recog.nition'' a lecture by: Professor Seth Greenberg of the Psychology Department Wednesday, Nov. 17 I at 4:30p.m. SS-115 Refreshments at4 p.m. The Campus Community is Invited to Attend The Features staff of Concordiensis wishes Bon Voyage to our new Forei~n Correspondent and ex-editor, Judi Lee Chervenak • We~11 miss you - Good Luck! Lounge The Student Philosophy. Forum is pleased to announce an informal presentation on: MARTIAL ARTS: Practice and Phil~sophy In Everyday Life By John Mordaun.t, Lau-Shr and ·-'Chris Peck, Lau-Shr All are invited to attend. It will be held in the Humanities Lounge at 9:00 p.m., Thursday, Nov-. -ll. · Refreshments and discussion / .. will follow·. 3. Allow the U.S. and U.S.S.R. to launch one (1) nuclear bomb every d~y to any target in the ()pposing country. Eventually both countries will be so saturated with radiation that there will be no one left to press tbe buttons. 4. Let's make nuclear weapons the latest fad. We all remember such fads as Hula- Hoops, Pet Rocks and Ned Harkness. But who ever hears about these things now? Nobody!. Let us make nuclear weapons the latest fad by sending one to each and every household. Fairly soon the novelty of setting them off will disappear and the threat will be gone. -This is Matt Nankin with one man's opinion. Now I would like to answer a letter regarding last week's editorial on El Salvador. It reads: Dear Matt: Your editorial· last week really made me sit up and think, which is something I haven't done in a long time. I spoke with Nancy about your views and she too likes the idea of \The Nankin Doctrine,\ only with more emphasis on clothing stores. I bope you don't mind if I quote you at my next press conference, provided those damn reporters don't ask me too many tough questions. I will have a position in the White House waiting for you when you are in Washington this spring. Well, Matt, I have to go now since it is time for another nap. Your friend always 1 Ronald Since this is the last issue of Concordiensis for this term, I would just like to take this oppDrtunity to thank everyone who has shown an interest in the views expressed by me in this column. Although my views have often been somewhat. radical towards serious issues, I believe there is an underlying truth to much of what I say which simply can't be denied. It · is these underlying facts, as well as my own twisted reasoning, that will compel me to continue this crusade for at least one more term. Possible topics for winter term already include: A solution to the Skellar's problems; Union's not~so-great late-Alunmi, and .a list of the twenty-fiv~ most obnoxious people on campus. MGN The views expressed by Mr. Nankin do not necessarily represent those of Concordy or WRUC. . ~ u 10 .J:I .!!! al c Ill 'i: al ~ 0 15 ..c c. ' i

Page 10 2 DAYS ONLY OONOORDIENSIS, November 11, 198$ SATURDAY PUBLIC NOTICE SUNDAY SAT STEREO l TOOL LIQUIDATION ~~~d,:r~t!:~~·i~z .. ~ SALE- STARTS AT tO:OOA.M. Technics' latest \P Mount\ Belt Drive Turntable lntroduc· tory Pr.oce $79.00 Deluxe Hecord Cleaner Reg. ·PriCI• $15.00 f'M WALKABOUT PERSONAl. RADIO w!th Stereo Headphones Rllg. Price_$30.00 $12,00 $2.79 CAR . BOOSTER AMPLIFIER 'th 40 Watt. Power Output RP.<J Proce $50; $2.00 Special. $19.00 AUDIO TECHNICA Stera.o Phon o Cart ridge· Reg. Price $50.00 $20.00 with Headph·ones Reg. Pr-ice $50.00 $24.00 NEW FROM SANYO Personal· Stereo Cassette Player with Headphones Introductory Prcce $48.00 OEL HAIR DRYERS $8.00 SANYO H:OME CASSEiTE BECK Ster~o Player/Recordi!r- ~itli P clby $79.00 AUTO FM C:ONVERTE·R ···=-· Reg. Price $29.00 Heg-. P-rice $300.00. $99.00 -Sharp . ' Stereo Portable AM/FM, ROADSTAR CAR INDASH STEREO A:M/FM with Auto •n\\'\'~\ Cassette and Fad Reg. Pr1ct! $220.00 .00 ROTH STEREO RECEIVER 20 Watts/CH Rt~9- Pr1ce $220.00 TECHNICS Cassette Deck with Soft-Touch Controls & Uolby $109.00 SHARP STEREO DOlBY CASSETTE DECK Stereo Importers, Inc. 'Sol<• aq.,nt hd~ reposs~:d ,, l'om<tfd quantot.y of p·,onee' ·Com~unent 4 waySPPilker syst,.rns for non-payment rJf t1ad d<~tlls These ~~ll'dkPrS w/lq. 12 .. $U.OO STEREO HEADPHONES · Starting From $9.00 pair Cordl-ess Telephone 150Ft. Remote Range with Dialer Memory Reg. Price $150,00 $911.00 PI.ONEER COMPON,ENT Z-Way Home Speaker with 8 '' Woofer Reg Pnce· S 368 'Pillr W<·•oft!r~ sold f-or $.73-8. (pr .) , $129.00 SANYO CAR STEREO Hi-Powered Auto-Reverse AM/FM Cassette $99.00 50 PIECE FLATWARE $99.00 AUOHJ TECHNICA · PT. 1 HEADPHONES Reg. Proce $29.95 $19.00 SET tor a --~~ OVOX llUARTZ CLOCK liq~ Crystal cto Alarm Clock Reg. Prrce $39.00 $19.00 TELEPHONES Why Rent Them? From Desk ,Models at $19.00 To Memory Units at 6X9 3-Wav Speakers Reg, Pr-ice $89.00 $29.00 pr $45.00 NOW AVAILABLE • $199.00/ . raptlic $49.00 uch Sanyo .Portabl~ Ca!isette Record~r izer with Spectrum Analyser Reg, Price $399.00 O'igital Stereo Receiver 40 Watts/Channel with Servo Lock Tuning. and ·Fluorescent Readout AC/DC Opera,tion Reg. Price $39.00 $23.00 Pioneer Component 3·way Home Speaker . System Reg. Price $500.00 pair $75.00 each Professional Stereo · Graphic Equalizer Improve Your Home Stereo $79.00 25 PIECE W' DRIVE SOCKET Irish JENSEN ·Low Home Sepakers- noise 3-way with 10\ Woofer C·90 Reg, Price $340,00-Pr. Cassettes $114.00 each $.99 each 11 PIECE 40 PIECE RATCHET/ . TAP& $1-99.00 I ndash Car Stereo AM/FM Radio with CQssette Player $39.00 Car Stereo AM/FM Ri!dio with Cassette Reg. Price 3 PIECE FLEXIBLE RACHET SET PROFESSIONAL O.UALITY TOOL BOX Metal 19\ with- Tote Tray with Clip - SET SCREWDRIVER .KIT DIE SET (SAE with Sockets 2 TON COME-A· LONG Reg. $59.00 62 PIECE 3/8\ Drive Socket Set Metr.ic SAE Price MET) $7.00 $19.00 $6.00 . $1 .00 Price $12.00 Magnetic $12.00 Screwdriver Kit Price $12.00 7 PIECE JEWELERS 25' 12-Volt Auto SCREWDRIVER SET All Mini Sizes $2.5u $5.00 11 PIECE COMBO (OPEN E1\ID & BOX) 3 PIECE WRENCH SET (METRIC) - ~~~~ Pnce $10.00 PLIERS 40 Piece SOCKET SET · with Ratchet $1.4.00 7 PIECE Airless Electric PAINT SPRAYER _$29.00 (Metric & SAE) .Reg.Price $49.00 CREWDRIVER S SOLDERING GU-N Wood Handles !30 wl $4.00 $5.00 ELECTFUCAL 109 PIECE i -4 PIECE PIPE WRENCH SET TAPE 6\ 10\ 12\ 18\ .75¢ $19.00 10 Rolls $5.00 - LIQUIDATION PRICE 100' HEAVY DUTY 21 PIECE $6000 ELECTRIC LEAD %\DEEP DRIVE SOCKET SET $5.00 $58.00 4\ 6\ 8\ 10\ I r r $9.00 TOW ROPE 18 GAUGE 6 PIECE 7 PIECE SPEAKER FLEX A. SSO·RTED NUT $10.00 4 PIECE AUTO TEST KIT 10-PIECE SCREWDRIVER SET with Pouch $3.00 WIRE SOCKET/RATCHET -. · · · . DRIVER KIT $2.00 Utility· Knife Cast Metal Handle .Price $2.00 $15.00 12' Heavy Duty JUMPER CABLES $6.00 $3.00 27 PIECE FAMilY TOOL KfT $20.00 'PORTABLE SOCKET AND fOOL : SUCTION VISE SET : $9.00 5 NECE MECHANICS PLIERS SET $13.00 With Metal Chest S59.00 SAFETY GOGGLES Meets OSHA Standards 82.00 I I ' AIR HAMMER KIT Handyman i $25.00 8' WOOD MEASURI RUlE Tote Tray 20\ Metal S5.00 11 PIE;CE COMBINATION WRENCH SET Open End & Box (SAE) Terminal Tool Set Crimping Tool with Hardware $10.00 $1 WHOLESALE INQUIRES WELCOME d I , ... Ho ay n~ • FREE . 100 KNOTT TERRACE ~ CASSETTE TAPE SCHENECTADY, NY ·~ First 50 People ~-Q•U•A•N•T•IT-IE•S•L•IM•I•T•ED._._ ____________ _..__. ... c.A•S•H•·••._V.IS•A--e_.M.c._•._A_~.PR•O•V•E•D•C•H•E•C•K•S-----------------------'- .... ~o~~ .. Ir ·gm Per ere cen ·i}f-@ Pr< dis: din Pr< the to dis Cal Sta 1 Pr~ the dis pel the mt ern ed1 Th Ca pe1 COl pO] pe< thl pe I by Fe pr dil co as thi A< El {t~ he \)I l~ al te PE ti~ CC ec th in SC hl SC fo tt of C(

- r CONOORDIENSlS, November 11, 1982 Page 11 THE ARTS ' A Chance for· All No Apology Needed By J. BRAJ)~Y andS.BRAND Staff action taking place. \Cedar. Sholes\ was just one of the many enjoyable poems read. In the spring of. 1982, the · .Empire State 'Institute for the Performing Arts - a state-- created arts and education center ~ established.-~· -~mn~' . ~r~Sive Arts~ Accesibility Program with a member of the disabled community as · coor- dinator. The Arts Accessibility Program was designed to make the performing arts accessible to all people, especially the disabled community in tlte Capital District and New York State. The Arts Accessibility Program is structured to meet the consumer ·needs Of the disabled who wlsb to attend performances at the. Egg and those in the disabled com- munity who participate as employees, artists imd in the educational studies at ESIP:A. · The disabled cQmmunity in .the Capital District represents 12-15 percent of the population, a conservative estimate of the population being 50,000-50;000 people. In New York State, there are 2.5 million disabled persons. The program is coordinated by Ms. Jo Fenton, who is. deaf. Few agencies\and organizations provide service.s for the disabled and even fewer have a coordinator specifically assigned to address the needs of the disabled. • Services offered by the Arts Accessihility Program at ESIPA include a TTY {teletypewriter for the deaf and hearing impaired), seats in -prime sight and sound \\\cations, a range of pre- attendance services, in- terpreter ser~ice& 'for . one performance of each produc~ tion, theater access services, consumer . information and educational services. Some of: the services for the visually impaired include the tran- scription of plays in braille (we have a licensed braille tran- scriber on our staff), large type formats and cassettes. Besides the availability of descriptions of costumes and set design· and conducting theater tours for the ' ' .. ~ _ .. -~~ 4isabled, the Arts ~ccessibility Program ofrer. has available sma:g._J;Oale, three dimensional mo-dels a a particular set for a play. Special needs services are often designed to meet the. in- dividual's particular request. One of the unique aspects of tbe comprehensive .program is that it is strrrctured not only to meet ~the consumer needs of the disabled community attendfug performances at ESIPA, but that it meets the on-going needs of those employees of ESIPA who are disabled persons. Last summer, ESIPA presented ''Story· Theatre\ at the Saratoga Performing Arts Center.. It wa:s directed by Edmund · Waterstreet of the National Theatre of the Deaf. Mr. Waterstreet, who is deaf, incorporated sections of mime and sign language into portions. · of the. program, thus making lt accessible to both hearing impaired and deaf members of the audience. In the spring, 1982 production .of ''The Thwarting of Baron Bolligrew\ sign language was also incorporated ihto the play with Ms. Fenton serving as consultant. Part of the educational thrust of the Arts Accessibility Program at ESIPA isto teach &ign language to the staff members arid the resident company, thereby making it possible to use these skills easily in productions. ·Ms. Jo Fenton, Arts Accesstbility Coordinator, is deaf. With a total loss of her hearing at age 28, she represents a unique link bet- ween the hearing impaired and hearing community. l.',is. Fenton, an exceptional lip r.eader, maintains excellent speech and at the same time communicates with the hearing impaired commtmity. With an M.S. in Elementary Education from Russell Sage College, Ms. Fenton has an extensive background in advocacy, counselin.g, c.ommunity outreach, arts and employment programs for the disabled population. Ms. Fenton has made numerous media and Thursday, November llth 8:45 and 10:45 Act 1: Variety Acts Act II: The New Jazz Quintet M.C.: Andy Elkowitz Beer, Wine-Pretzels 25c-Cheese 50( BRING ID's . \ . . Join the Working Staff of Waiters, Waitresses,· Hosts, Hostesses Come to ci meeting fo.r Winter Term sign-ups , Thursday, Nov. 11 Cabaret Room 4:30 p.m. Those interested in performing · next term ca II Ravit or Susan at 6785 public appearances, conducted a recent sensitivity training session with members of the legislature, and has served as Coordinator of Deaf S~rvices to the Workshop, Inc. in Menands, N.Y. before coming to the Institute. Carolyn Forsberg is blind with a seeing~ye dog by the natne of Buffy. A .graduate · student at the University of Albany, Ms. Forsberg is an Intern at ESIPA .for a semester at the Egg. While attending the Institute, she has worked in the properties department for \The All-Time Good-Time Knickerbocker Follies\ and is currently on assignment in the Electrics · Shop for the production of \Romeo and · Juliet''. During the per- formances of \Romeo and Juliet\ Ms. Forsberg· will be working sound and electrics and cueing the computer for lights. In th~ up-coming production of \The Wizard of Oz\ Ms. Forsberg will be playing a \Mlillchkin''. For the ·classes that Ms. Forsberg attends at the Institute, all informational materials are tailored to her needs by taping class lectures and written materials for assignment, an made possible due to the eXistence of an Arts Accessibility Program. · The Arts Accessibility Program is being looked at by the few existing programs (or Accessibility in the United States and .represents a for- ward-looking and exceptional . moclel for · programs being developed throughout the State of New York. - Last Monday evening in the Humanities Lounge the Union Community was privileged to have author and visiting . professor Jordan Smith read his poetry. Smith recited several selections from his new book, An Apology For Loving Old Hymns. His opening poem, \Con- stable Hall\ was a reflection of the poet'.s observation of an old house. The poem was rich in imagery and gra~ped the audience's attention. Smith explained several of the poem's historical backgrounds and various settings, which helped · the audience understand the Smith's poetry is truly cap- tivating. Both English and non- English majors equally ap- preciated the creative, unique style of his work; A native of Rochester, Professor Smith received his B.A. from Empire State College. He received his M.A. from .John Hopkins University in 1978 and completed his Maste1·'s degree- in Fine Arts at the University of Iowa in 1981. He. has previously taught ai both John Hopkins and the University of Iowa. This is his second year teaching here at Union, a job which he claims to enjoy very much. Vau.deville and More By ALLYSON RAMSEY VaudevHlians Jane Voss and Hoyle Osborne will be per- forming at Union College Coffeehouse Friday at 8:30. In August the duo appeared at Proctors as part of ·the silent film_ series. While they per- formed . predominantly vaudeville revivals at Proctors, their repertoire ranges from jazz . to folk, including Irving Berlm's \Lazy\, \You're the Cream in My Coffee\ and \I Didn't Know You Cared\ (an original ballad). Voss' versatile voice and Osborne's skillful accompaniments (vocal and piano) are able to Shift styles with amazing grace. Voss and Osborne have performed in various folk festivals throughout New York, and in 1981 their album Get to the Heart was awarded the Record of the Year Award by Stereo Review. If you are looking for something different to do this Friday come to Coffeehouse. You'll be able to relax with a delicious cup of hot coffee and listen to this talented pair. Tickets are $1.00. FACULTY VARSITY VOLLEYBALL MAT(H NOVEMBER 18th, 7 p.m., FIELD HOUSE FACULTY POWER IN ACTION The Social an~ Film Committees Present: ANIMAL HOUSE TOGA· PARTY Featuring the Blues Bros. & Tokyo MOVIE-9 p.m·. DANCE PARTY-11 p.m. NOVEMBER 19th ALUMNI GYM Admission $3.00 Bring Union I. D. FREE POPCORN! - Department of the Arts presents Lunchtime Organ Recital by Hugh All~n Wilson Wednesday Afternoon, 12:45-.1:15 p.m. November 17 -Memorial Chapel The public is cordially invit~d to attend

Page·12 OONOORDJEN818, Nove.mber;,11, 198B OltJltfllfbtrn.sis FounJtJ at Union College /877 --~------~ ------~--- Smart Move The College is finally a full-fledged member of the Independent Student Coalition. The Forum has come out of hibernation to .strike a blow for student activism. So, what do we get for our money? That will be determined by the community's efforts. To use the proverbial, we will get out of it what we put in. Opportunities abound. Just two weeks ago, Ooncordiensi:s printed a list of available internships at the ISC headquarte:ts in Albany .. Hands-on experience of this type is invaluable. But, this is just the tip of the iceberg. Campus leaders can take an active role in ISC policy-making. This weekend, the ISC Board of Directors, Which is comprised of eighteen student leaders from around the State, will meet in Albany for a crucial ballot. It is proposed that the Board be restructured so as to give an executive vote to every paying member of the organization. If this measure passes as expected, we will have gained a foot in the door without even trying. We must take advantage of this ''in,\ The College is considered by many to be ene of the finest small, liberal arts colleges in the State. There is no reason why Union students should not be at the head of the ISC, directing its future. The Forum will be called upon to promote. the ISC. We encourage them to move with all h'aste. · Staff Support This week, two College administrators went above and beyond their normal .call-of-duty for the students' benefit. Both men deserve the thanks of the community for their dedication and commitment. We certainly appreciate their efforts and hope that Union will always be blessed with this caliber of top brass. Bob Massa, Director of Financial Aid, went before the Forum on his own time, and in an unofficial capacity, to speak about the Independent Student Coalition. Without his valuable insights, the Forum would have never grasped the severity of the financial aid situation 1n Albany and the usefulness of an organization like the ISC. Bob Massa truly cares for the students and, with his staff, works long and hard to solve our problems. Speaking of problems, Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies Alan Nelson has come to Ooncordienaia' rescue. Concerned with our shortage of staff members, Dean Nelson has taken it upon himself to approach the faculty to help recruit writers, business people and clerical help. Many comment on the quality of our newspaper, but Alan Nelson is doing something about tt. ., LETTERS Student Lead~rs Angry To the Editor: As leaders of various Student · Activity funded organizations, we wish to protest the haphazard manner in which the Student Activity money was distributed by the Finance Corr.mittee, specifically by Barton Hill, Vice President of Finance. Money was given out to organizations th.,-ough a sy$tem devised by Hill that decentralized the Finance Committee, giving · the responsibility for the financing of various clubs to .different Finance Committee members. This system works well for , keeping track of the various organizations, but leaves only one person responsible for watching \the big picture~', \the bottom line'', the total finances. That person is .aarton Hill. For the first six weeks of this term, .Finance Committee members and activity leaders were all told that there was plenty of money. In Bart's words, the committee was \sitting pretty\. Activity leaders were told. that if they needed money,_ they were to ''i\c~e back\ arid it would be there. _ Then, in trk seventh week of the term, appa-r~~tly the amount given out was a(fded up, and HUI realized that the_ Finance Committee had vastly overspent and there was little money left. Now, not only can activities not come back for more money, but they face budgetary cuts of money :they had counted on. We now face the possibility of diminished' student activities; for example, a small or no concert wihter tenn, and -.a smaller Camp Union. There is one person. who is to blap1e for this mismanagement of funds, the person who is supposed to watch .the funds given out. This person is Barton Hill. As lie.' is obviously gtill.ty of \gross neglect of office\ we call upon Barton Hill to resign his position of Vice President of Finance, or if he does not, for the Student Forum to impeach him. . Respectfully s11bmitted, Andrew Rosen • Film Com~ mittee Co-Chairperson Peter Wool- Film Committee C<Hl\airperson Larry Lieberman .. Concert . Committee Chairper$0~ Jeanine LaPilusa - SQcial . Committee Co-Chairperson & : · Ceteri2 Paribu.s· President Ravit .Avni • Cabaret ·co- , Chairperson . Susan Bamel - Cabaret Co- Chairperson Dan Lindy - Jl!lectrontc Music Club President Mark Valentine - Political Forum Co-Cha.Uperson · . Kathi Zuckerman - Circle K PreSldent Gayle Stem.- Coffee HoU$e Co- Chairperson Anthony DeAngelo - Chemistry Club President John Bibona - Pre-Law Society President Rich Biegan - Chess Club President · Jonathon Whitney -, Sailing Club President Kevin Angus - Concert Band Co-Chairperson · The opinions expressed in this ietter are those of tbe , in· dividuals who have signed, and do not ntcessarlly represent those of their organbatlons. Thanks From the Rugby Club To the Editor: As the season comes to an end, the time has come to thank all those people who gave their time to make this fall a great big success. Thank you to all of our supporters who came out to cheer us on in any weatber. Thank you Concordiensis for your great coverage of Rugby· football. Thank you Brian and Matt in the Skellar, Lorraine Marra, Dick Saltala, Lou Andrews and the maintainence crew and thank you Chi Psi for your contributions~ Sincerely, Keith Dean _ JohnTierney URFC Co-Captains Bid Box Placed in West Help Offered To the Editor: As many know, I have never . been a supporter Of Con- cordiensfs. As past editor of Union Views. I have been quick- to criticize my competition (or . in my judgement an inferior product). However, after reading last week's letters by Brian Quint and Ira Dworkin critici~g · the paper, I must alter my thinking. -- My criticjsm of Conc~;rdiensis has nOt waned. In fact, it has intensified. However, unlike Brian and Ira, both of whom I believe did the. paper a service by elucidating several problems that it is facing, I plan to do something more than write a letter criticizing Concordiensbl. Beginning winter term, I offer mY assistance to the paper's. editorial board in order to . contribute tq, what I hope will become a quality product. I write this letter in the hope that others will follow my lead. Will any Union students give Continued on itage 13 ' questions, ask those who are_ manning the Bid Box during · lunch, or any fraternity Photo staff memberth~ you know. , Sincerely, John Wheeler ·co1 up Sat . Sk• COl Ne iml I f1 dut bel I ne, ·sri .. £ir! Tc w fo1 yc . s sc dr ct. or I 1 Sl: . 81 . pl (~ tl A is ·n a p v ~ h a e a p c a g r f s ~ t 1 ~ I

- 111111111 s - rt )-, )· c ll c v 1 .. OONOOBDfBNSIS, Nouember 11, 1988 Page 18 ii t· - · continued from page 12 up a . Tue.sc;lay, Friday or .finer product. Concor:cUel;i&lfl . is. saturday :mght at the Pub or a.i'eflection of UJ)io~:College, its Skellar to work· mr Con• student bOdy, and the caliber of cordlensfs·? Prob~bly not! the education at the college. lJ!c · Nevertheless, I think tllat closing~ I add that •f~er improvement$ are needed; and editQi' of UntQ&Vie\Vs - a former .. I feel t~at it is IllY duty (yes, \a~ - can swallow his . duty! ) to get off my ~...and-- pride and offer his assistance hell!·-----..-~....,...- ·· whenit.isgreatlyneeded, thenl • · If others care about their believe others can do the same. newspaper, including Ira and ·Brian, then they should take the . £irst step toward .making it a Sincerely, · DavidA. Wollin From An Alumnus To the Editors: Mohawk Vale\ aft~r each.s.core ... but only the alumni knew the If you missed the game in words. · , Williamston, you have lost C'mQn guys (and gals) . ·, . forever one ofthe high points: of let's get with it! This Garnet your college years. Great-day . . team is on an ascendency and . . strong Union turnout .... super deserV-es your support. So .. . • score! It ended a long. long ·next autumn . . . how 'bout · drought. fielding a band and knowing the Regrettably, no Union fight song. cheerleaders .... no Union band on hand. So ,' .. what the hell .. , I took over and improvised. We sang 1 ''We've travelled down the Go Dutchment · Fr¢derick V. Bronner '46 · Student Forum Responds, To the Campus Community: According to the present Sutdent Body Constitution, the purpose of the Student Forum (as principal governing body of . the Student Government Association) is to \consider . issues and to review, recom- ' mend, or formulate policies (as . appropodate) in areas primarily or exclti$ively in- volving the Student Body. Such areas shall include, but not be limited to matters of student affairs, academic affairs, and extracurricular affairs. The association also . seeks to provide extended channels of communication, increased areas of cooperation,. and a greater acceptance of· shared responsibility ·between the faculty, administration, and the student body ili matters of general and academic in- terests\. .Furthermore, the legislative function of the Student Forum includes, \the recognition and sanctioning of all student activities'' as well as, \the allocation of all student activity money\. The con- stitution also charges the Student Forum with, \the authority to oversee the policies, operations anc;l ad- ministration of all student committees\. Clearly, one of the many responsibilities of the Student Forum is the efficient allocation of resources to all organizations recognized by the Student Forum, possessing approved constitutions and budgets; As student interest in. already existing clubs grows and new clubs form that reflect the needs and interests of an ever changing student body, in- creased stress is placed on a Student Activity budget which has barely kept pace With in- flation. Therefore, the Fin~nce Committee and the student Forwn are faced with the dif· ficult task of dividing available funds among the various organizations, each having special needs~ -· Many of you, as student · leaders, have prepared budgets, scheduled activities, ·and dealt with tne threat of the financial squeeze. . Unfor- tunately, in making budgeting decisions, an us-them reaction ilivariably seems to develop. Rather than working side by side to make the rnost of our assets, tlie Student Forum becomes the \them\ and the clubs the \us\ or vice-versa depending on the particular role one is playing. Contrary to popular belief, Student Forum members do not derive personal pleasure from cutting activity · budgets. Rather satisfaction is gained when clubs are operating effectively. Just as newspaper editors take pride .in a finely published product. Forum·. members are happy with efficiently run clubs and a · · satisfied student_ body. In the interest of keeping control of the Student Activities Budget · in · the hands of the students, it is necessary at this time tO-take 'precautionary budgeting measures to ensure staying \in the black\ for the remainder of-the year. Rather than taking a ten to fifteen percent across the board budget cut, as baa been implemented by .previous adminiStrations, this year's Forum would prefer to work directlf With each club in revising its budget.-It is my hope that with the un- derstanding and. cooperation of the student community, along with the hard work of the Finance Committee, the club leaders, and the Student Forum, that budget ad- justments can be made as painlessly as possible. Respectfully yours, nene S. Landress '83 President, Student Forum Letters to the editor mu.st be submitted to Concordiensis by 7:00 p.m-. on Tuesday · All letters must be typed, double- spaced, on non-eras·eable paper. letters must include name and telephone number; names will be withheld on request. Concordiensis reserves the rif!ht to edit any letter for reasons of sp'ace. COMMENTARIES Of Trials and Elections ·' By JACK ANDERSON and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON-Kevin Mulcahy was found dead under mysterious circumstances outside a Virginia. motel room on Qct. 26. He was 39 years old and a former CIA officer. More important, however, was the fact that M'ulcahy was a ·former associate of renegade CIA agent Edwin Wilson. It was Mu1eahy who first tippad off the FBI to Wilson's operations in Libya. · Wilson is under arrest on charges of smuggling ex- plosives to Libyan dictator Muarnmar Kada.ffi. He is scheduled for trial on Nov. 15. MUlcahy was to have been the government's star witness against Wilson .. Now he ls dead. But our associate Dale Van Atta has learned what he was prepared to testify. Mulcahy went to work for Wilson in early 1976. He soon grew ·alarmed at · the sophisticated weapons Wilson was willing to provide to the Libyans. But Mulcahy thought Wilson was running 8!1 un- derground operation for the CIA. After six months, Mulcahy suspected Wilson wasn't working for the CIA at all .. So be r.ifled the files in offices he sbared with Wilson's associate, Frank TerJ>il. Here is how it was described in a secret Justice Department document: ''On Sunday, Labor Day weekend, 1976 (Mulcahy), wen:t to his . office and examined numerous files maintained by the company, and other papers which Terpil kept in his desR. Among those papers and files were documents detailing a proposal to the government of Libya to manufacture explosive devices and to train Libyans in manufacture and use of devices. Also included was training and intelligence gathering, sabotage and terrorist activities . . . \MUlcahy realized what he had become inyolved in, and fearing that the documents must be cut. The politicians who would not be available at said they were opposed to another time, he removed those raising Social Security taxes documents and numerous really meant they would cut others . . . He then contacted benefits. Those who claimed officials ofthe CIA who referred they wouldn't tamper with the him to the FBI. He later sup-- benefits were really saying they plied the documents to the FBI . would raise Social Security There is. now some question taxes. whether the documents It's as .simple as that.. Now Mulcahy gave the FBI can be that their jobs are safe for used at Wilson's trial this another two years, maybe month. There is concern that they'll say it in plain English. thegovernmentwon't·be:ableto DIRTY POLITICS: The 1982. prove where the documents elections probably set some came from now that Mulcahy is sore of a record for mud- dead. slinging. ·Not · since the Mulcahy was the second McCarthy era of the 1950's have important witness against so many politicians dumped so Wilson to die this year. The much dirt on each other. other was Rafael Villaverde,. In New Mexico, for eX8lllple, who was killed in a boat ex- Republican Sen. Harrison Sch- plosion near Miami. Villaverde mitt accused his opponent of claimed that Wilson and Terpil failing to prosecute rioting hired him and anotller Cuban to prisoners two years ago. The assassinate a Libyan dissident. cases weren't even under his Villaverde had worked for opponent's jurisdiction. In Wilson in the CIA's anti-Castro California, Democratic Gov. operations of the 1960s. Jerry Brown aired television HARD FACTS: Shortly SJ?OtS that suggested a vote f?r before last week's elections, . _ . his opponent would result m Sen. Edward Kennedy, D- nuclear . war. I~ . Texas, Mass., chargedthat the Reagan Democratic Cong. B_ill Patman administration is planning to dug up a report which alleged slash Social Security benefits. ~hat his opponent ~~d. engaged President Reagan responded m homosexual actlv1tles. that he would protect those HEADLINES AND FOOT- benefits at all costs. NOT~S.: Th~ Food .and Drug The hard facts, meanwhile, Adm1m~trat1on ~s . . con• are suppressed so that the templatmg two maJor .moves politicians could promise that for. ~e~ year. Sacchar~, the the taxpayers would have their artlftc1al sweetner, Will b_e cake and eat it, too. Now that removed from ~he market . if . the elections are over, you can Congress. doesn t extend 1ts expect to hear some realistic · morator~um. And. manuf~c- discussion of what .must be done tur~rs will be reqUll'ed to list to save the system. sodium levels on all packaged We have seep the preliminary food by 1985. draft of a Congressional study - H~w great hru; the damage on Social Security. It discloses been m Lebanon aft~r s~ve~ that the Social Security system years .of non-stop flghtmg. needs another $18 billion if it is According to one secret State to continue paying benefits Department cable, even the through 1985. After that, .the ~b~ese themselyes do not outlook should brighten rea!iZe the magmt~de of the somewhat for all but the physt~al an~ ec~noiDlc d_amage Medicare program. t? pr?per~r inflicted durmg the There are only two ways to flg!ttmg.. . Some exl?e~s raise the $18 billion that Will be est:unat~ 1t will take $20 billion -needed to keep the Social to replill' the ~ess. Security system solvent: Either CoJ?yright, 1982 taxes must be raised or benefits Umte.d Feature Syndicate, Inc. A Matter of Priorities ByNOR~ButNBACH We are all familiar with the offiCial slogan of the UnJ.ted States Post Office. It's amazing. Those guys will go through rain, and snow and sleet, just to deliver the mail to us. You don't often see such dedication. Even so, the people who deliver the mail weren't satisfied. Maybe all the excitement had left their job. After all, working through .a thunderstorm or a blizzard must become blase after you've been at it long enough. Maybe th~t's it, because I'm not so sure I understand the latest development to come out of the Post Office since the \B\ stamps. The latest development is that in case of a limited nuclear confroJi!:tation, the Post Office will still deliver the mail. The implications of such a plan go beyond the cost of rewriting the slogan. I wonder what went through the mi.tld if the Post Office administrator who came up with the idea of 11 CONSTRU·CTIVE CRITICISM SESSION'' Tues., Nov. 16 at 8:30 p.m. Conco:rdiensis office, 4th Floor Carnegie Hall For all those interested in voicing their opinions about CONCORDifN$1S We want to improve the paper but we need studen1 input. We will be glad to answer any questions you may have. what would the Post Office do after a limited nuclear war. The though is scary. The Reagan Administration has released figures of the potential number of casualties that could occur during a limited nuclear war, which is supposedly . ''win- nabl~.\ The figure they came up with is 20 million people. But when they consider such a war winnable, and start planning for business as usual as soon as it's over, that is scary. At that point, people become merely numbers; they lose their meaning as human beings. However, they won't lose their mail. The plan provides for regular mail service as soon as the confrontation is over. The Post Office will have a list of who should be at which evacuation center, and will deliver people's mail there. You won't even need astarnpthen;::to there'll be no postage due, no way of paying the people who win be courageous enough to work again. Of course, after a nuclear confrontation; what will you need money for, ·anyway? The problem is th{lt the Post Office's plan is hardly realistic. Not many people will be thinking of getting any mail after the devastation. Besides, I have a tough enough time getting my mail now; after a nuclear war, it's not going to be any easier.

Page 14 OONCORDllilNSI$, November 1.1., .t98~ THE.ARTS UNION ROCKS. UNION ROCKS. UNION By ANDREW' ROSEN and ROBER.q'A RUBINSTEIN In a musical atmosphere frequently dominated by skeptical, yet anxious fans, the scene at Proctor's last Monday came as a welcome surprise. The Madison Square Garden of Schenectady might not have sold out, but the crowd that · dared to venture out on a Monday evening was in no way disappointed. The triple.-billed show, which included The Dads, Gary U.S. Bonds and Southside Johnny & Tbe Asbury Jukes, turned out to be an over- whelming success. Bonds described it best as he overlooked a sea of raised arms and swaying bodies . . . \Schenectady is a Rocking City.\ (And Rock it did tmder a spell that only certain musicians, i.e., The Kinks, can cast.) Undoubtedly the top-billed Jukes stole the momentum of the crowd: however, there can be no mistaking the enthusiasm generated by The Dads and primed by Gary U.S. Bonds. The House did not begin to fill up until well into Bonds' set. Unfortunately, those who missed The Dads, missed the sounds that will perhaps be dominating the airwaves in the future. The Dads, originally from Riclunond, Virginia, are not new to the Capital District. They played to a small audience on campus last Spring, and since then, have been tOW'ing a number of places along the Northeast and Canada. Not yet well established, The Dads are subject to the usual closemindedness of listeners, record companies and radio stations alike. All too often new bands without a record label, have trouble getting AOR, and as a result the rock & roll audience remains deaf to their talents. Surprisingly, when The Dads took the stage at Proc- tor's, the audience was unusually receptive. The upbeat Rockabilly style, which is not unique to The Dads, quickly united the energies of the audience, creating the high that puts both performers and listeners at their priine. Bryan Harvey ...:.:.. bass & vocals, Mark LewiS - guitar & vocals, David Ayers, (Jr.) - guitar and back-ups, and Mark Tubb - drums, \drums drums\ make up The Dads. Their set was, at the very least, proof•of each member's energy and dedication as musicians and performers. The band will be playing the New York City area for awhile; and then hopes to continue getting the response that they enjoyed so JDUCh at Proctor's Theatre. The Dads might not have the name that Bonds and The Jukes have developed, but keep your eyes open ...:... They are certainly on their way up. Gary U.S. Bonds Following the trend set by The Dads, Gary U.S. Bonds easily roused the mellowing of emotions which developed during the set change. Hitting the stage at full force, Gary and the band 'literally' put the whole theatre into ·motion. With past hits such as \Out of Work\ and \This Little Girl\ it was not long before the entire house was up and dancing. Even the skeptics in the crowd had trouble keeping their feet from tapping. A few years ago, it was doubtful .as to whether Bonds would ever be touring again. But in the mid-seventies, \The Boss\ drew Gary out of ob- scurity and into the midst of a welcoming audience. The slick sounds .of the times were slowly losing their appeal, and rock & roll was once again gainhig momentum. Bonds, with the help of Springstein, was able to get a recording contract. Dedication, featuring \This Little Girl\ set the wheels .in motion. With the release of this , albwn, Gary and his band had won the hearts of \The lost generation .. '' There iS little doubt as to how or why the band continued to climb. Bonds' latest LP, and his performance last Mond,ay, are evidence enough that Gary U.S. -Bonds is a musician with unlimited energy. His backstage presence made him a pleasure to work . around, and in short tbe evening would not have been nearly asJ successful had he not played the show. · Southside Johnny & The Asbury Jukes ~ I Southside Johnny came on stage to an audience charged by Bunds and The Dads. He opened with \Talk To Me\ off the Hearts of Stone LP, a · tune which geared the audience for the energy ~Jrlch unrelentlessly p~ured off the stage. Southside had the entire audience en- tranced. As usual, he exhibited overwhelming, if not over· dramatic, antics throughout the show. A number of times the band broke into spontaneous jams which surprised the performers as much as the audience. . At one point Southside began playing the guitar (which he rarely if ever does in concert) and the band smoothly broke into Cream's, \Sunshine of Your Love.\ Next came an impromptu drum set which eventually led into ''Vertigo.'' The crowd went wild as Southside and The Jukes just cruised along with the flow. As talented . as the band is (most notably the incredible horn section), it was hard to ignore the missing talents of Rich \La Bombe\ Rosenberg, the usual trombone player for The Jukes, who is now touring with Diana Ross. Southside Johnny, whose real name is Johnny Lyons, \i-s originally from New Jersey. He got his start playing in small clubs around the Asbury Park area, and he spoke about a few of the thirty bands he played With in the past. It was not until he cut his first album; This Time It's For Real, that he realized he was going to become a professional singer. Being a thirty year old English Literature major, Southside explained that he \went for it out of sheer necessity.\ Backstage, although he sometimes was a little hard to deal with, he relaxed during his interview and spoke freely about how much he enjoyed playing colleges·. College audiences are more captive and know what kind of music they like, he · explained. Continuing · with his thoughts, Southside joked that \college audiences drink more beer,\ and \are more educated about what kind of beer. they like.\ Regardless of the kind of beer that was pref'erred, there was no doubting the musical sen- timents that . prevailE)d. Southside Johnny and The Asbury Jukes have not seen the last of Union. Thanks to· the hard. work. of the Concert Committee·· .. (alias Union Entertainment), most especially Larry Leiberman and Nancy DellaRocco, and the additional help prQvided by the crew and security members, the entire evening .. was a welcome success. The per- formers and the audience ex- pressed it best . . . Schenectady certainly was Rocking last Monday .at Proctor's. Union· ·college Mountebanks RE'JEL Nov. ll-14, 18-21 Good seats still available at N ott Memorial/ Box Office and Carnegie Box Office \' For Reservations Call 370·6153 ~on't Miss Outl (Cl Alfre died cider with char agai.J \T was forlll son~~ lnng ans1 Stev into crus St1 1978 frat• was qual arot Klru its : and rep( step sucl ~ T

-· ;:; .... ~ L. I'll ..c: u 02 Ul ·;: ~ u .6' 2 ,o :..c: n.. I OONCORDIENSIS. November 11, 1982 Page 15 r (CPS)~~~~ ~~!!!!2.mtemflj .. l ROTC Says No Gays Alfred. University_ student who have learned from all this,'' - · ·· died· during a 1978 ha~ing in~ Stevens says, \and that the (CPS )-A new. state law that I understand it an opinion could cident has sett~ed out of court university continues to enforce forbids state agencies to be a long time coming.\ is to qualify commissioned officers for duty, and anyone who· is (gay) cannot participate in the commissioning program.\ with the fratermty,and dropr;>ed anti-hazing policies.\ discriminate on the basis of But Assistant Attorney charges she: had pendmg . Stevens says she Will ~ontinue se~tial preference. may force General Charles Hoornstra says against the Wliversity. her work with CHUcK~- ROTC off state carnpuses unless his office probably won't have \The purpose of my lawsuit mittee to Halt Us~le$~campus the military changes its mind to render an opinion becaQSe of \But he addS, \that is not to say that a (gay) student couldn't take the ROTC courses for credit only. But that student would not be able to attend summer camp, be granted an ROTC scholarship, and I don't believe he would .be allowed to wear a unifQrm.\ was to · obtain all t~e in- KUlingst:~!J.e.-,..Ofganization she about admitting gay students to an imminent change in ROTC fol'IIlation connected Wlth my , lmmded. after her son's death- the program. policies. son~s death and to _have .SGme-:- and plans to expand .. her college The Wisconsin .attorney lnn.g~unr-es'Ol'V-e<t - questiQns lecture tours and lobbying ef· general's office thinks the Army answered,'' says Eileen forts against hazing. - . may do just that,. altnougl,l both Stevens, who turned the tragedy \I'm very encouraged that ROTC (Reserve Officer into a national anti.· hazing legislators and national . Training Corps) and state crusade, · ' fraternities are embra~ing my university officials disagree. Stevett's son, Chuck, died in cause, but there's still a lot of Until. the .smoke clears, no 1978 after a Klan Alpine work to be done,:' she says. student is yet in danger of losing fraternity initiation where· he \There have been 24 kids killed academtc credit or scholarship was forced to drink large in hazing-related incidents in· money, sources say .. quantities of .alcohol and ride the last fou.r years.\ \The effect that the new law around .in the trunk of a car. Stevens says that \99 percent will have on the campus ROTC Klan Alpine has' since droppec:l of my inv'ltations to speak now program is still pretty vague,\ its so-called hazing activities, come £rom fraternities,'' ancJ says a University of Wisconsin and Alfred Univerility ·sources she plans to spend the next spokesman. \Right now the report that the sehool has .several weeks l'ecturing at matter is under study by the stepped up efforts to control campus~s around the country. attorney general's office, and as such initiation practices. - . 11\.I~A. ~1·1\~l; IM~~~~~ e1 (~ e()~r_l>f,M POl\ I U M 10.9 t:anal ~quare, uroa.dwa.y,:Sch'dy. Phone: 374-4332 • PIZZA • Cheese (x. Cheese Sausage Mushroom Pepp~r.oni Green Peppers Meatbal'ls Onions Anchovies Any Addltem Papa Cic~o's.Deluxe N. V.S Sty I~ Sicillian Style (Ueepdiah) 8..-cut' 1~\ cut 24\ cut 4:25 s.oo 8.$0 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10•00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 .10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 .75 1.00 1.50 9.25 10.95 15.00 THESHRlMP ... THE.WHITE SCAMPI ClAM SAUCE PIZZA PIZZA WHITE PIZZA OUR SPECIAL t.Y _;. Try One Tod;,y- Pizza with no saute- Sprinkled with Olive Oil Shrimp and Garlic and Fruh Garlic with Olive Oil and Pizza with White <;lam Sauce and Garlic with Mozzarella c:heeae with moynds of ·Moznrella cheese Mozzarella cheese · Lr. 4.50~ Lc. 6 .. 75 8 cut Sicilli•m 12 cut 5.25 Sic•lli.111n 12 cut 7.50 12 cut · 24 cut 8. 7 5 24 cut 10.50 · 24 cut •lT ALlAN SANDWICHES • 6.·oo 6.75 9.75 1\.c!~tb~u UO Steak 2.50 2.50 Saiami l~ Provalone 2.50 Meatball Parmiii~na Saus~ge· Sausace Parptiriana S..uaace &: PepP«-rs Ecr Plant Parmigiana Calzon~ 41t'fahnn\' f1ll\d •1th Rt1o,•Hhrt'tt', 2..10 Prosc:iotto & Provalone 2.95 :tso Sandwiches with p~ppera 20' extra 2.35 Sandwiches with Mushrooms 20' e•tr:a 2.60 Sandwichn with Onions 10' extra · Italian Routed P~ppers 25( ~ktra • SPECIAL T.IES .• 'Plain Sausace 2.25 Ham 2.65 Prosciotto 2.65 2.95 r------~-----~------~-----~-----------~------ ! - . _ FREE MERCHANDISE i : Every time you get a pizza or sandwiches valued at more than : 1 $4.00 you will receive a coupon ·save them for Free-Merchandise. 1 I ~ I 15 Coupons 1 8 cut Free (cheese only) . I I 20 Coupons 1,1-2 cut Free (cheese only) I ; 25 Coupons~ 1 24 c:ut Free. < 1 ingredient) : 1 50 Coupons 1/2 keg of b~r (3 days notice} 1 , 1 100 Coupons Pizza Patty for 25 people with beer at· your I t_ . . . . dorm or fraternity_ (2 days hofh:e) J -----~--------~--------~--~------~--------- WE DELIVER ON CAMPUS PHONE 374-4332 I· \My understanding is that the Army has issued some new regulations that will moot the iSsue,\ Hoornstra says, The new regulations, he claims, will reverse the Army's traditional ban on letting homosexuals into the program. But ROTC officials say they're unaware of any im· pending policy changes. \I'm .sure unaware of any kind of change in regulations,\ says Lt. Col. Eugene Larson, commander of the Army ROTC program at Wisconsin-Madison. \The last thing I've heard is that the .state attorney general will issue an opinion,\ he says. \So far as I'm con~emed, my ppsition is basically to wait and see what happens. Naturally, we'll abide by whatever the legal system decides. I just hope reason prevails.\ \We have a policy that ap- plies across the board that says homosexuals will not be enlisted into the armed forces,\ says Capt. Douglas HayWood of the Army~s Training and Doctrine Command. ''The goal of ROTC Haywood.say.s the heart ofthe Wisconsin issue is whether the U.S. Dept. of Defense policies supercede state law. This is the second time in recent months the Pentagon's anU-gay rules have brought it into conflict with college campus policies. This summer the Army threatened to cut off Pentagon research funding at seven campuses whose law schools won't allow recruiters who discriminate against gays. Most of the law schools involved have reaffirmed their bans on Army recl1,li.ters. The University of Wisconsin law school has already voted to bar FBI and U.S. Army recruiters on law school grounds because of the organizations' anti-gay rules. r~$~ -WE DELIVER- 374-1886 ~~ ~Yk 464 State St. Schenectady, NY ••tt•••t••••••••rtt• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • DANCING in the Pub with the RECORD HOP Every Thursday Night 10 p.m.-1 a.m. .. ,, ..... , .. , ... ,, . •••••••••••••••••••• The Wa.y We Are~,.------------ Reprinted from October 11, 1979 \ - 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 I) 0 0 () 0 (j <) .. . 0 0 I~ ·o 0 0 0 0 0 00 'Q. 0 0 • ') 0 . 0 0 0 0 0 • 0 0 0 0 0 -·.- 0 C> • c

; ' Page 16 OONCORDIENSIS, Nov~moer 1,1, 1982 New Draft Law Affects Aid Equal Rights? (CPS)- The government has officially signed up another draftee in its effort to track down and punish men who have not registered for military service: college finanCial aid offices. Aid officers, however, are not willingly accepting their draft notices to deny aid to nonregistrants. \01:1r job is to help students go to school,\ complains Thomas Scarlett, aid director at Michigan State, \not to be an enforcement arm of the government.'' Aid officers now find them• selves cast as \the bad guys,\ adds Francis Mondragon, Cal- Berkely's aid director. ''I don't see our position as being the police.'' But as of next July 1st, Scarlett, Mondragon and their peers will in fact find them- selves as important cogs in the registration process. Under a law signed last month by President Reagan, male students , must show proof of military registration before they can get financial aid. The aid officers who must v enforce the law look at it as a government-made change in their job descriptions. They also fear it will bury them in paperwork, overload their office staffs, muddy their m1sswn, force them to discriminate against male aid applicants, increase their ad- ministrative costs, and even make them into targets of lawsuits from disgruntled students. Most of the worrying is an- ticipatory, since the govern- ment hasn't yet told them exactly what they have to do to EQUALIZER/- BOOSTER DCR 150 Receiver 22Watts RMS 0.09% total Distortion ALL / BANDS implement the law. The Selective Service and the U.S. Dept. of Education are wo~king on a \5()..5() basis\ in figuring out ways to enforce the law, says Education Dept. of- ficial Bob Jamroz. The main problem, he says, is determining ''how do we go about verifying'' that a student is telling the truth. \The burden of :proof,\ predicts Betty Alexander, a spokeswoman with the Selec- tive Service, \will be on tile (aid) applicant or the financial aid office.\ Among the alternatives now under discussion are requiring aid offices to send a list of all18- to-21-year-old students to Washington, D.C., or :to com- pare lists of male applicants to a list .of registrants supplied 'by the Selective Service. In addition, students might have to sign a form swearing they'd registered, and to show some kind of proof - a card, a photostat- that they're telling the truth. The actual guidelines won't be out for \two or three mon- ths,'' according to Education Dept. spokesman Duncan Helmrich. Aid officers aren't happy about any of the possible alternativef'll , - Kansas State University Aid Director Robert Evan~ says comparing lists of appli,cants and registrants raises memories of trying to cope with inaccurate government in- formation during the Vietnam era. Michigan State's Scarlett dismisses all the mentioned alternatives as more \bureaucratic red tape.\ ~ sag95 CLAR.ION 100 E.QB. 15 WATTS RMS · PER CHANNEL 5 BAND GRAPHIC EQUALIZER Limited Quantity RADAR DETECTORS LONG RANGE PROTECTION XK Dash .. Visor $),.-iO XK .. Remote Grill Mount Super•H.ET Super L~ng Range Vixen $~ 22CJ95 , 24CJ9S (CPS)- An attempt to start a Scarlett is am9ng the more student group .. caUed . the outspoken critics of'.the idea of Association of White Students using aid as a military._ en- (A WS), designed to fight forcement tool. He finds -·tt-_ . \reverse discrimination•~ at \very distasteful. You can't Southern Methodist University, print-<Urty words in your :paper\ has disa:ppeared uncter a to accurately. describe his- \deluge of controversy/'_ ·. feelings. TWo weeks after getting SMU He says he facetiously asked student government recognition his congressman to introduce a as an official student group, bill to deny nonregistrants use A ws President James Robison of public highways. disbanded his group last week. \It was a tough bill for Robison refused to comment Congress not to pass,\ observes about the group'S dissolution to Dennis Martin of the National College Press Service. Association of Student In his resignation letter to-the Financial Aid AdminiStrators, student government, 'Robison because voting against it would .said dissolution was best suggest voting for the felony of \considering the present cir- registration resistance. cumstances.\ Opposing the bill, adds Florida State's Marsh, would The circumstances included ha:ve been equivalent to \op- an outpouring· of hostility posing God and country, mom toward the-group since it-was and apple pie.\ formed two weeks ago. . Few aid administrators Robison formed the group to raised, the possibility they'd end \reverse discrimination\ refuse to go along with the law, at the school, including af· however. firmative action programs, Berkeley's Mondragon is minority recruitment efforts, worried the new law will force and the student government's him to break an older civil practice of reserving seats for rights law. It forces h~ to special interest groups. place a condition on men's The student government educations that he doesn't. have recognized the group because to place on women's, which, he \the AWS (was) not unlike any fears, violates Title IX of the organization of students on Higher Education Amendments campus,\ says SMTJ Senate of 1972. President Homer Reynolds. Title IX forbids \We had no reason not to discrimination on the basis of recognize them\ because they gender. \met our criteria.\ Despite such legal damned-if- But Reynolds and the senate you-do, damned-if-you-don't followed the approval with a quandries, the goverrunent says statement saying the govern- it wouldn't tolerate campus ment didn't endorse Robison's flaunting of the draft law. ideas, just his right to be \Congress has passed a law, recognized. and the ,president has signed Nevertheless, \about 150 it,\ Jamroz explains. \We have people, predominantly minority a law we have to enforce.\ students, attended the (next) ''C\ 269 95 ' so~ ~1UJIQ)TICQ> SR-31() • - ...- .. ' AM/FM I BEST II CASSETTE . BUY • i~13995 ~ 219 95 STR-VX22 DIGITAL RECEIVER . 30 Watts RMS O~tput senate meeting to speak out against AWS being recognized,\ reports SMU ·spokesman Roddy Wolper. \The minority students here bounded together and . showed real opposition to him/' recalls student body President Joe Qooley. Robison $tressed his group did. not adVocate white supremacy, but equal rights and. an end to affirmative action programs. He added A WS was mostly 'interested in starting a dialogue with minority student leaders. , But -Robison could never get past explaining his gr_oup's name, Wolper ~ays. \When you·narne ,a group the 'Associf.!tion of White Students,' you're not.going to make a lot of people happy and willing to listen to you.\ \Robison was really over- whelmed by the deluge of controversy surrounding AWS,\ Wolper adds. The group's demise doesntt necessarily mean the end of the debate over the speci'al student goveriunent seats - ,one each for campus women, blacks, Chicanos and foreig~ students. \I would hate to speculate what will happen at this point,'' Reynolds says of the minority seais. \I don't even have a personal opinion on the matter, so I really can't speak for other senators or students.\ Setting aside speCial seats for certain groups became a widespread practice among student governments in the late sixties and early seventies, reports Janice Fine, chair- woman of the U. S. Student Association,. the Washington, D.C.-based coalition of student body presidents. @TDI<. ~ ~ 1.49 j4.-2'1 2.49 j3M 2.29 .$M1f 2.99 \---- / / LIGHTWEIGHT STEREO FEATHERPHONES ~ 95 - (C mel rec• seal can soUl in DC stu< cia! sisl tra 1 T ma stU! 5001 clir E par an Dis OUI ma mo mi mE cir ym 1 wb rec str lin bi.I vi! be bu co Ca ( an litt ed1 J te1 le WJ m af; of I stl l)U st1 ha re stl hE co pe v~ d~ st fe af pl CC w in pt PI n: b< w

out ~u ere ~ a p's to of he ch ~te a a te r- OONOORDIENSIS, No~VemlJer 11, 1982 Page.17 . . l Measles Outbreak Could Spread I {CPS)- Univer~ity of Id&ho administrators, scrambling for ways to survive their second straight semester of funding cuts, have settled on a con- attention to the program to get c,idditional funding. (CPS)...- One case of red measles at Bayl?r University recentlY turned mto a health scare at seven other Texas campuses that :a<lm,inistrators sought to contam wtth a mass innoculation program, despite students insisting on going to class and football . teams ~­ sistin~ on keepmg t_h~~r travebng schedules-.· Th:e measles case qUickly made over 100 other Baylor students sick, and prompted 5000 others to rush to. local clinics for vaccination shOts. Ending college outbreaks in . particular is very diffic.ult, says an official with the Center .for . Disease Control in. Atlanta. outbreaks \could happen on many U.S. campuses because most students now in. college missed .getting either the measles or measles vac- cination~ when they were young.\ · The Baylor ~pidemic began when a freshman brought the red measles - a less serious strain than Ute German measles linked to high death rates and birth defects _,.., back from a Visit to South America this fall. \The student came to campus before he knew he was infected, but while he was still highly contagious,\ e:Jqllain& Baylor spokeswoman Nancy Barcus. \He attended our annual 'Welcome Week' activities and apparently was all over cam- pus.\ Within two weeks, dozens of students hatl symptom...s--af· tbe highl:y-infe~Mnfs ··disease, Bar~-safs, so campus and sra'te health officials quickly set up emergency Qiagnostic and vaccination centers to control the problem. In a scenario that flows like an episode from TV's ''Quincy,'' health officials launched publlcity campaigns and extensive tracking procedures to notify anyone who might have been exposed to the virus. \It was the worst possible time of year among the worst possible. population,\ laments Charles Alexander, chief of communicable disease services for the Texas- State · Health · Department. It was not only the socially-hectic .beginning of the . school year, but football season, when crowded stadiums easily could have become giant petri dishes for the virus. \Early on a case of measles turned ·UP in one of the Baylor football players,\ Alexander recalls. \At our s-uggestion we arranged to imm-unize the fo.otball team and coaches, and Sex • Ill Class? Campus Digest New$ Service Colleges across the country are providing students . with a. little . extra along with their education-sex. AlthoUgh sex was never in- tended to be apart ofthe college learning experience, that's what a, growing percentage of men ~d .. women are gettjng after class or in the instructor's office. As society 'r:elax:es its moral standards about sex, and as the number of women and older students returning to college has increased, sexual relationships between the student body and the faculty have become more and more common. Some estimates show 10 to 20 percent of faculty members of various colleges date or h.ave dated theit,\ students. One poll o~ students revealed 25 percent of female students who graduated after 1971 had had sex with their professors. A survey at some Colorado colleges of 111 men and women who had student•faculty affairs in 1980 indicated that most (84 percent) were between male professors ·and female students. The·average grade point of more than 50 students who had been involved with an instructor was an A minus. lEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 . Tltls increased sexual activity on campus is giving rise to. concern, to put it mildly. Student-teacher relationships have always been considered taboo and often promote suspicion and disapproval from both colleagues and students. Because the student-teacher relationship is comparable to that of a client .. ptofessional, some speak out against these sexualrelations as a breakdown in professional standards. A professor sexually involved with a student can sometimes find more on his hands than raised eyebrows. Frequently, ·instructors report that bedroom play is used as blackmail fot getter grades. _ The tables can be turned around, too. Students often suffer sexual harassment from professors. However, a college or university can usually help out in situations like that. Many institutions have established investigative procedures to handle · sexual harassment complaints. College officials may be able tQ stop unwilling affairs, put they have little power to put an . end to relationships between ·two consenting adults, especially if the two are capa!>le of handling the accompanying difficulties. caused by the liaison. For .Information About Other Centers In More Thah 85 Major US Cities & Abroad Outside NV State CALL TOLL FREE: 100•223·17U AP.RIL EXAM CLASS'ES ON CAMPUS Albany Center 163 Delaware Ave. 439-8146 .Delmar, NV to alert .officials at Te~as Tech and the University of Houston that their teams could have been exposed.\ Through other contacts, the measles also spread to Stephen F. Austin University, Texas A&M, Texas A&l, and the University of Texas-Austin campus, Those schools, .along with .Saylor, made some 100,000 students vulnerable to the disease. At last count, 105 students had contracted or shOwed symp- toms of the disease, which in- clude a runny nose, cough, red eyes, ra:;;h, and high fever, Alexander reports. What worries health experts more is the prospect of measles outbreaks sweeping through virtually any campus in the country in the next few years. ''Vaccinations before 1968 just weren't that effective in establishing hnmunity,'' Alexander explains. B,ut at the same time, he says, measles were controlled enough by then that many children were able to grow up never contracting the disease. ~'Thus, from now through the next five or six years we have a wave of students who are only 5.0-to60 percent protected against the measles,\ making college students extremely vulnerable to the virus. By late in this decade, Alexander adds, most college students Will be in the group that was innoculated after 1968, when more effective vaccines gave a 90-to95 percent protection rate against measles. \There are a lot of campuses where the same thing could occur,\ agrees Dr. Allen Henman with the Center for Disease Control. \But there's nothing coll~ges can do except wait, unless they're willing to institute, immuniz.ation requirements for all students prior to admission.\ . troversial new slash: ending student evalu.ations of their teachers' performance. \It was a tollgb decision,\ says Faculty Secretary Bruce Bray, who recommended cutting the evalu.ations. ''When your budget is cut every year, yo11 .start asking yourself 'Whl.ch arm can I spare?' But I still think rather than leav:ing a classroom empt~, the evaluations are the lesser of two evils.\ Indeed, evaluations - once hailed as the ver:-y definition <!f the college consumer movement - have been abaondoned by a number of schools trying to save money this fall. Moreover professors, who complain that students aren't qualified to judge them, are increasing pressure on ·administrators to end evaluation progl.\ams. On many campuses, the evaluations n()t only judge teacher quality, . but help determine if teachers get tenure and salary increases. Thus, some instructors never have been ardent supporters of the surveys, especially when jobs are increasingly scarce. Faculty dissatisfaction, coupled with an increasing shortage of funds, may make student evahutions a thing of the past at many campuses, some observers say. Even students .are beginning to question fllllding the surveys in light of drastic cutbacks and elimination of other student services · sucb as counseling centers, day care, and library hours. At the University of Denver, the Faculty and Course Evaluation (FACE) program w:as nearly eliminated this year. But th.e editorial board resigned, and drew enough Several years ago, FACE received annual funding of nearly $30,000 and was one of the largest student publication efforts on campus. Two years ago funding was cut to only $9000. And after an original b11dget of only $1100 this year, FACE finally got an additional $2900, though only after the student editors resigned in disgust, Similarly, University of Texas English lecturers have called the student evaluations a \popularity contest (judged by) a bunch of 18-year-olds,\ and al!e lobbying to decrease the role the evaluations play in faculty hiring and firfng decisions. Wesleyan University faculty members also tried to junk student evaluations recently. Although unsuccessful, in- structors argued that ''evaluation of pedagogy ought to be rooted in institutional credo rather than student opi,nion.\ But while some schools ponder ending student evaluation programs, at least one college is thinking about starting one. The Student Government Association at Loyola University in New Orleans just proposed funding a $2000 \Studen-t Consumer Guide,\ which would include evaluations of instructors and individual courses. The proposal has been tabled, however, until strident officials have had a chance to discuss the idea and how they would come up with the money to fund it. \The course evaluation has been considered for quite a few years,\ explains Chris Young, student representative. \But it has always met with opposition from the faculty.\ With the school's budget problems, he adds, the Student Conswner Guide is far from a reality. Start Your Weekend Right •• _. HAPPY HOUR at EVERY FRIDAY Phi Delta Theta (above the footba II field) /fi> 6:00 to 9:00 pmG....,.._......_ ALTHOUGI-I CATS ARE FtNICK'-' EATEJ.\& ... •'H~NGE.R STRIKE'• 15N'\f EXACTLY IN OUR VOCA6ULARY ~·· .,

' .. i ' \ Page 1.8 , OONOORDIENSIS, November. 11, 198S CLASSIFIEDS SCHOLARSHIPS ICP offers help for DP students--ICP, the software information company, an- nounces the fifth annual of- fering of its ICP Scholarship Program. The Indianapolis, Indiana-based publisher of magazines and directories for the software industry is offering $5,000.00 to help a student pursue his or her educational goals in the data processing field. Any inquiries about the fifth annual ICP Scholarship program should be directed to Chris Castaneda, Marketing Coordinator, at 800-428-6179 or write to her at ICP, Inc.; 9000 Keystone Crossing, PO Box 40946, Indianapolis, Indiana 46240. The Beta :Psi Chapter of Tri- Delta is looking forward to awarding their first annual scholarship. This will be the 39th year of this scholarship competition for Tri-Delta chapters across the nation. Delta Delta Delta Service Projects competition is open to · all full-time undergraduate women on campus. They must be undergraduates at Union during the term of the award. An applicant already. in her senior year is not eligible to apply. Academic record, contribution to campus or community life, protnise of service in her major field and financial need are among the criteria considered. Applications are available at the Chapter· House and the Financial Aid Office and are due by November 15, 1982. For any further questions please call 382-9216 or 37().6066 and ask for Rita or Marlene or call the Financial Aid Office. Vanderbilt University's Owen Graduate School of Management announces the continuation of their MBA Scholarship Program. The scholarships are awarded solely on the basis of academic merit, not financial need. Thirty (30) awards are made ranging from full to half-tuition. Students from all undergraduate majors are encouraged to apply. Applications and further details are available from: Scholarship Committee, Office of Admission & Student Services, Owen Graduate School of Management, Vanderbilt .University, Nashville, Tenn. 37203. (615) 322-6469. The American Political ' Science Association announces the 1983-84 Graduate Fellowships for Black Students. The fellowships are designed to aid prospective black political science graduates by providing financial assistance. Funding is $4700 per year. Applications must be received prior to Dec. 1, 1982. A limited number of applications are available at the Financial Aid Office or contact: ASPAGraduate Fellowships for Black Students, · American Political Science Association, 1527 New Hampshire Ave. NW, Washington, D.C. 20036. HELP WANTED Available part-time help. Moving household furniture on a part~time as needed basis. Should have flexible schedule. Please contact Jim at 456-1181. Babysitting--1 afternoon (possibility of( 2) a week on a regular basis-any . afternoon. Mother wants an afternoon for shopping. Hours 1-4 p.m. 2 boysa -3 yr. old and 8 week old. McClellan St. near Unton High School. 393-9201 (would prefer a reference if .possible) Wanted: Computer Con- sultant-student with expertise in SPSS and-or Minitab (FORTRAN .helpful) for sr:nau projects--part-time work. Please call 382-1210 or 37().:5065. Ski free! Organize weekends and semester break trips to Lake Placid. Earn lodging, meals, Whiteface lift pass, and commissions. Call Jim Kelley (locally) at 237-2223 or Mon Amour Lodge, Lake Placid at 523-2711. SPEAKERS On Thursday, Nov. 11 at 7:30 in Strauss Lounge the Women's Network, the Political Forum and the Women's Commission present Karen Bernstem. Ms. Bernstein has in the past served as a State Senator (1972-78) and a Public Service Commissioner (1978-80). Since 1980 she has held the position of Executive Director of the Consumer Protection Board. Her topic will be \Women in Politics.\ All are welcome. Administrative & Engineering Systems Colloquium. Speaker Dr. Richard A. Shick, Dean, School of ~u~iness Administration, Camstus College. Topic: Philosophies of Bank Regulation & Supervision. Date: Thurs., Nov. 11, 1982, 3:45p.m. Place: Rm. 207 Bailey Hall. VOLUNTEERS Specialties Clerical Asst.•- Mon.-Tue. & Fri. morning or afternoon segments. Filing lab & x-ray reports, pullb!g x-rays, photocopying, delivering order requests, retrieve charts to be transferred and possibly call for oral results of tests, depending on background experience. Open House Tour Guide-Wed, 5:30-8:30; some Sun. 1:30-4:30, in Oct.-Nov. & March. Give tours of health center and ex- plain program to prospective subscribers. St. ciare's Hospital wants volunteers (up to 18) to work at phonatilons to raise money for , the \Founder's Challenge\ Campaign of the Hospital Foundation. This money will go towards life•saving hospital equipment and will be matched dollar for dollar by the Foun- der's Challenge Committee. Contact Career Center. New York Easter Seal Society needs a Building Surveyer: Volunteers needed to visit at least six bUildings by prearrangement at complete the Easter Seals Building Survey. The survey will be used to update the Access Guide to Capitaland, a building guide for the mobility-impaired. Call the Career Center for details. Community Health Plan, a non-pr.ofit organization, would like to invite , any potential volunteers to open houses on Nov. 19, 2 p.m.,; Dec~ 3, 2 p.m., and Jan. 7, 2 p.m. Schenectady Inner City Ministry KIDS Program is looking for volunteers to ·Offer abused and neglected children an opportunity to~ build Iongterm positive relationships with caring adults and a variety 'of self-esteem.. building relationships. Contaet Career Center, 6176. Thresholds of Schenectady is looking for Inmate Aid to help prisoners to develop decision making and problem solving skills, and to improve their self- esteem through counseling. (Training is provided for volunteers--next training session is Oct. 16-17). Call Career Center for details, 6176. Girl Scouts is looking for: 1. volunteer to serve as a Girl Scout resource, 8S$isting troop leaders with planning. 2. public relations representative to deal with the news media .for the Girl Scouts. Contact Career Center, 6176. Information Receptionist- All sessions: 9-5 p.m., total of eight hours, 2lh day segments are fine. Explain CHP system to new members or members With questions, direct members to staff that could provide !n- formation needed, provide literature, direct patients to appt: areas, announce visitors to appropriate staff, confirm appts., handling lending library \limited number of self•care and health-related books.\ Children's Activity Super- visor--Monday, 6-8:30 p.m. Supervising children and planning group activities. \\ . Garden Assistant and Plant Attendant--Three sessions a week: morn. or afternoons. Outside and inside tending of plants, watering, misting, checking leaves and soil, fer- tilizing, planting & replanting, also placement of plants. Courier-Aiiy day, a.m. or p.m., preferably Mon., Thurs. including eve. session· or Fri. Deliver specimens to lab, & x- ray department. Autoclave instruments-stock and Clean autoclave room and some typing. ' Assistant to Volunteer Coordlnator--Wed.-Fri, time commitment flexible. Re.cor- ding hours, making up charts, answer phone and taking messages, making posters and typing. Enrollment Assistant-Mon.- Fri., 8:31)-5 p.m. Maintain CHP enrollment information, in- ventory, includes typing, photocopying and assembly of employer information kits. Clerical Asst.·-Claim Department--Weekdays--aft- emoons preferably, Mon.-Wed.- Fri. (three afternoons per week). Filing: file folders, paid bills, etc. Purge inactive files. Clerical Assistant for Per- sonnel--2 half-day segments, mornings or afternoons. Tue.- Wed.-Thurs. or Fri. a total of 8 hours. Typing form letters, filing (alphabetical), other clerical duties including establishment of records of new personnel and related record keeping for terminations of employees. Photocopying., sorting, purging files. Clerical :Assistant-Weekd- ays, 9-4. Alphabetizing and filing, numerically sorting reports, preparing chart form packets, purging inactive files. Check-In Receptionist-Th- urs. evenings, 5..8 p.m. Dealing with the public in allergy ser- vice, checking pts. in using patient care forms, collecting $2.00 visit fee, noqfying nurses of pts. arrival and changes on schedule. ' PubUcations Asslstant-- Monrings,...;Tues.-Wed. orThuts. Maintain publication inventory and stock areas for marketing staff: involves some. xeroxing and coll!lting. X-Ray RecepUonll!~·-6 hr. commitment, 2 days per week. Mon ... Fri. a:vailable. In charge of location of x-rays, signing them out to medical Staff, retrieving & filing, recQrding the receipt of outside x:-rays and returning them by requested dates. Coordinator of Volunteers needed at the Schenectady Museum and Planetarium on Nott ·Terrace Heights. Volwt- teers needed for various positions: For the Haunted HoQSe, volunteers are needed for publicity, painting and constructing scenery:, sewing costumes, make-up and per- ~rmi:Jlg. A general chairperson lS needed as. well. Docents, teacQing guides to interpret exhibits, are needed to give tours to visiting schools and occasional special groups. Volunteers are also needed to provide occasional assistance to the Curator . . . plani1ing exhibits, researching, painting, etc. Call Nancy Lutton,. 382•7890 (Mus~um). ·Playroom assistant to supervise and proyide support for hospitalized children. Call the Career Center at x6176. The Community Health Plan Volunteer Program has a large number of volunteer positions available. If interested contact the Career Center at 6.176. TERMS ABROAD If you are interested in spending a term in 1983-84 or the entire academic year ·studying at Kansai University, Japan, please see Professor Thurston (SS213, X6220) before the Christmas break. CLUB NEWS Circle K, . The Service Organization at Union College, meets every Wed;' at 6:45 in the 4th floor Carnegie Hall Lounge. Come and check us out, you -won't be wasting your time! Important yearbook layout meeting Friday, 2:30, fourth floor Carnegie. Ski Team meets every day at 3:30p.m. on Alexander Field for practice. For more information call Brian at 372.0172. RJDES Ride needed to and from Oswego or nearby · area in- cluding Syracuse.. I..eave on Friday, Nov. 12 and return on Sun .. , Nc:lv. 14. Will share ex- penses. Call. ~~,!m· 370-6665. ~ide wanted to White Phdns, NY or surrounding a~ea on Fri., Nov. 12,.Sun., Nov. 14. Call Ann at 6.771. · MISCELLA1VEOUS The Japanese classic, \Seven Samurai,... wlll be shown in SS016 on Monday, November 15 at 7.:30 p.m. All students are invited free of' charge. .Spon- sored by the History Depart- ment in connection with Professor Thurston's cours&on ''East Asian Civilization.'' CATS! CATS! CATS'! .Free to agoodhome. They're adorable, and they could be yQurs. Call Bill or John at 372-0781. _ On Mon., No:v. 15 at 7:30 in Stage Il Carnegie, the Political ForUiil will present the movie, ''The New Klan.\ The movie focuses on the Ku Klux Klan's attempts to use the media to expand their influence and gain national visibility. Professors Tidmarch and Daniels of the Political Science Department · wlll speak about the fUm and the Ku Klux Klan afterwards. Faculty Varsity Volleyball Match, Nov, 18, 7 p.m., Field House. Wouldn't you. like to try the best? Then Amwayrs, fUll line of products is what you want! Delivered to your place of residence, no charge. For more information and a free brochure call Karen or Diane at 370-6573. Mutual support meetings for peQple who are grieving the loss of a loved one by suicide are held on the second Tuesday of each month. Suicide is the cruelest death of all for those who remain. Each day sur- vivors struggle, with guilt, anger, sorrow, and questions of \why?\ This group. provides a safe place in which to share some of these emotions with others who are having similar agonizing pain. The next meeting will be held on Tues., Nov. 9, 7:30-9:30 p.m. at the Friends Meeting House, 727 Madison Ave., Albany, NY. For information call evenings and weekends, 482.0799. . Union College Film Committee presents :;!,C2.~EPH E. LEVI_NE .~, MIKE NICHOLS / - '.\ ACADEMY AWARD WINNER LAWRENCE TURMAN \\'')VCIIOJj , '\ / B.EST DIRECTOR MIKE NICHOLS 1957 ' \ _,,· Nov. 12-14 $1.08 ' ' ·. An Av~o Embassy lteleaM Jlllllll!i 7, 9, 11 p.m. 55016 - gll tel Bi 67 Ol nc in: fo ra .. - w T1 a OI pi fa h; y: pl a 3: a s tl Jl I 1 1

- -- - \'\::::: rom in- on 1 on ex- ifoS, ~ri., t\nn ...,..__ - ven in r 15 are ,on- art- rith 'POD ! to lle, Jall in cal rie, vie n's to ain lrs :he ~nt nd ds. all !ld he of of OONOORDIENSIB, Nove.mber 11, 198S· Page 19 i:LASSIFIEDS MISCELLANEOUS Band looking for serious guitarists and. pianists in- terested in playing ,Chicago, silly Joel, etc. Call Ben_ ~t ..37(}.. 6754 .for n1or.e information. Ozzie OsbOrnist addicts need not bother. Let's dance! Group or private instruction, social dance skills for any occasion. Excellent rates. 783-9399, 5-10 p.m. only. PERSONALS To my tavorite Housies,. Whoever said 18 was a crowd? To a great bunch of .friends with a lot of love .. ;now if you could only leam how to stay off the phone (_just kidding). It's been. a fantastic term and I know we have 2 great ones in store!' Love ya guys (girls?) ... The Krazi phone phantom Nancy L. H9 jq 5534 2y343 697 q43, 8 2800 qo2q6W o9f3 697! 8io Unionterm in France misses and loves Randy, the hero of 315~ . Cawawin, Kdata, Tabbette, and Babs: Gety psyched for spring '83. Florida will nevet: ~ the same ... Will the real Captam Nemo please stand up... Love, Doffy Hey Mary-Want a beer? Thanks for all the help. Maybe I'll even pass math this term. I owe you one, kid. Come on over to North and collect your Becks (Dark). Love, The Linear Lunatic ..... · Wanted: Subje~ts. ~preferably female.), Jor .. -nocturnal ex- p.et~ml;!iits ... desperate. No references needed. Call 382-8820 and ask for Rocko Kar, Skid, a:nd Nance, Pledges may be important. But S.L,G.s are family, Chin up, Sule$ )please) -s.L. Guys S.L. GIRLS ++ Nothing in the world gould ever separate you or your friendship. -s.L. Guys Amy (Tri-Delt Pledge); You're so fine you blow my mind, you. purple colored character. -Egdel Pihcam GU;a J., To pledge or not to. pledge, that could cause real trouble. A. D.B. 's-dance much?!! It was. great being together again. Let's not change our statue-it's mortHun this way'$ love, the C. OF THE B. JO: Next time I invite a friend to visit, l'll tell hiin to leave his Wallet at nome! Guess Who? PREP: It's okay if Ameoba's consume as long as it's not an illegal substance .•. Try to choose your sleetH>ver com- pany more carefully next time. Remeber AMEOBA'S CON- SUME-JAP PRIVATE SPACE: . Happy Birthday! 19 years old and never been schtupped! Your favorite Jap Union College Film Committee Presents: Alice's Restaurant Wednesday, Nov. 17 $1.00. 7, 9~ 11 p.m. 550·16 Lana.....,A!tnoug I missed the touti~··:st!lson in Schenectady, j~:~S( being with you made my stay here the best vacation I've ever had. Remeber to hink of the good things and d<ln•t :be too sad. I'll miss ·you so much; I can't even begin to describe. Thanks for everything. -Love, John Would you let Dr. Chess wash your car??? To x6561, your heavy breathing turns us ·on .... x6658 P.S.~Can we ALL be tucked in~ ..... Please'? To two our our awesome pledges-Natalie and Joanne: Great work! We're' psyched to have our letters back! Now June-Mama won't be bummed when she get.s back. J-January seemed' forever but forever with you seems like it's right around the corner. I love you. -XO Kelli: Y' es! I finally got the paper in, too bad it was .only a week late. Hey 2-3 you-know-what: Are we ever going to have a .party'? +++1-3 non-you-mow-what Don't blame me, I voted for Ben Heckscher! Lisa: I'.m glad you're around when I come by, just remember that a hug means I love you. - Dot Structure .DELTA GAMMA ~ Who needs quantity when we have such amazing QUAI1TYt !! Duck-1 would like a word with you! Pacman this Sunday night and we'll see who wins .this time! ! Jodi- What can I say? Thanks for everything-I'll miss you lots! ! Love you, Nat P8-I write great letters! Death to the Pipsqueak, Long live GIANT!!!! I •. To the Sisters of SOT- Thanks for a great party-get psyched for a great winter tenn !I ! ! - You;; Pledges Brlan--I still want to have your baby! .. Richmond ''First Floor- Gimme a W, Gimm,e a T, Gimme an Fwhat's it Spell? ... Adam of Webster, The Sisters of SDT· liked our little Pledge task I Thanks for being cooperative~ The Pseudo DG Pledges, Nat and JO Nus~~Here's your personal, Never say I don't love you -LJV Senior year is not the same but it's not the seniors who are to blame. This campus lacb those who make it fun. We've got to try harder and that's no pun! Dear Jeanie-I'm going to miss you love. Don't wear any \Bean Bags,\ they'll cart you off. Love ya, Liza Mistress wanted for rest of fall tenn. Prefer girl who's planning on going away winter or failing out. Willing to share, contact Gary C., RiehM. ,LeeS. or MarkS. Dear Valerie-Relax and enjoy, I shall. miss you 9 thank you. -Love Liza Lori Babes-Happy 21st!!! You're good stuff -Love, Your Roomies Bob, Don't worry, noene of us question your innocence-- everyone has their off days (nites). -JAP jugwines, Fric, Frac and Sie J.F.-Well, you finally got one you sexy thing. Now you owe me one. -P. Jill- You have a button in your hair so stop laughing. Boy are your eyes huge! -Pam Charis ...... Where the hell are you????? lnve, Bo Kyle-Yes you WOODY WOODY Would Ya PRETTY PRETTY Please? To our two favorite Psi U Space Cadets-Next time will you please dance with us? Keep smiling--Two disheartened Deltas Dear Drew, Aren't you a little confused.? Do you want to be a doctor or just play doctor? Sue, We like the guy in the overalls-but she's A-Broad! Mr. Larkin, Now that I know your name-what's the next step'? Marlene, Will you teach us Jane Fonda? C P Nessa-Your sister is going out with WHO?? (Ha, ha, ha) I'm so funny .. Why the hell are the two biggest \L's\ living together? You figure it out. Have fun in Pineville! ! Mucho ainore, Your loving roommate Sweetheart-Keep the fire burning David {3)---You're really number one! Keep your spirits up, kiddo. Or else! You're terrific! Love, Your co- chairperson? Julia, Define Jewish Foreplay! Sue No 1, I have a good supply of bagels. I won't tell you not to worry at all-but things don't look too bad right now. Just promise you'll be back next term! (I'll need someone to pick me up if I fall.) John-Here it is ..... your FIRST personal. They always said there's a first time for everything .... A senior and you still haven't tried it????? Love, The Mouse NEC Information Systems, Inc. . . APClM is the tiigh .. resolution solution t:o you~ personal computer needs Any way you figure it, the NEG APCTM Advanced Per...sonal Computer equals better price/performance than any · personal computer on the market. Extraordinarily high resdlution 8 x 19 dot matr~ices display graphics capabilities that run circles, elipses and sine waves . around the competition. Available in both 128K and 256K bytes of user memory, the APC supports both the CP/M-86 operating system from Digital Research and MSOOS from Microsoft. For scientific and engineering applications, a 32..:bit . floating-point arithmetic processing unit is available. Come to Lela for a full demonstration and we'll show you our APC's • Monochrome and color dispiays . • Two-million bytes of floppy disk storage · • Comprehensive system and application software

'·· Page 20 OONOOBDIENSISJ November 11) 198~ CLASSIFIEDS PERSONALS Cont. Congratulations SDT pledges. You're the best!!! TOOLS: HAVE: FUN OR DIE! ! Lov~. Y()l.lr :Betters Mitch: Congratulations! I'm so proud of yc:>u. YGu'll make a great doctor! Hey Mike-Didthe little girls like the nose· candy? P .S. Keith: Did you stop bleeding yet? Margaret.,.... Reznei'JII>er, th- ere's no place <like borne! (Tri- Delta, that is). Eelta love, Cindy Positions now available at Camp Larry. Pleas.e call x6590 and leave a nessa~e with the secretary. Harvey is a Sneelker World Tour: Australia, Japan, England, France, Germany, and possibly Spam.. Roadies needed. lh2) with Nmft likes Harvey Is A Sneaker Jeff-It IS a wine for laying down and avoiding it! ! Hey Jeff - had a good nap at Sam's on Friday morning~ Will everyone please heed the fact that JON HEIMER (who wishes to remain anonymous) got an \A\ on a paper!! Heimer-BLOCK THAT KICK!!! Heimah: What were you gonna do wit dat beer bottle? Tom-Stand up.! ! ! ! ! A.T.-Are we going to have a big black and white party or a small one?~?~?!!!! ZOOM; SCHWARTZ, OERNIGLIARO NRB ILYM MAJ \only 42 more days to Canada\ Eric---1 sure do miss Physics. Tbanx for coming up to visit. Mark Wyckoff: In addition to hard scholarships fame,-~ the girl next door. Prot;..;~ional athletics is just a multi-mtlhti:.;t. dollar business. Give us all a break ......... Joe Cool DOOLITTLE-If those Christian assholes ever bother me again I'll brea~ your face!!!! Respectfully, an atheist Liss- Things don't always go BUMP in the night! Even \quiet\ weekends can be ... interesting. Is this term looking blurry yet? Shar Dear· Ann-Abby, Did you give up dancing on tables? It's loads of FUN! ! .! ! Try it sometime. Received any fan mail lately? ..... The other one (xoxo) · MIKEY. Marriage is a very serious part of life. One does not marry three girls at once. Rings are expensive. Cathy S. OF SDT'-Better be on your guard ... there may be moe of you, but ... never question our ability to find you alone! ! ! Your GD Little Pledges Why is it that Union College is the silly school where you can find students that ha:ve the ::,a·nu~ haircuts as their professoi·s~ ldon't get it. -One who noticed 317~You all are .real suave. Rooms like yours com.e once a term. If you're lucky (only kidding-once in a lifetime). All our love .... Your buddies two floors down P .S. Hi Lardo Hey Davidson! We know you wish you were us admit it, you're all jealous- J, G, ST, SC, ANDN LA~It's gonna be. hell not having you a.round next term. It's gonnarot bad but it won't be too .far, I hope -Guess who Vegemites-1-t's. time -to initiate our new pledges who, by the way, possess quasimegadecposityness -, _ Mitch--1 knew you would do it!! ! ! And it's just the begin• ning! -love, Angel J.H.~Is it always that soft? Betsy Darrel-l want a slice of dark meat for Thanksgiving ..-Judy S. •. Note to the men who lived on first 'floor Dl!vi~son North last year: Myron (Mffj\thtfD.B. is alive and decomposing at Marist . ...,Scotty Baldwin To Carol B. at DG-Let's get together for some D & D (Factor) --Richelsophrr10re · Juc;las Priest l'rancis!! These young iconoclasts are ruining the Hill. I say let's send in a SWAT team and blow them aU away. -Howard · Steve J.- Long distance isn't the same thing as being there. Dib Z. . PS -but in your case it's good enough When we play Hamilton, that'll be a joke. You know we're gonna. kill them-kill them So everyone can take note-take note. ....Adam Ant (one of the Ugly Fans) Even BIFF A.ND DAD REVISITED (every Wed. night work, athletes also get athletic Bob, I thought money bought · everything! Howie Dr. Ben Jitters trained tots for the Olympics. That was an idea that never caught on. - Crazy Fernando and his singing weedeater My dearest Lee: Unfor- tunately I am still watching you from afar, I can't take it any longer! My room in Richmond Skyway • • R.t. so, Scotia, 399-4922 Presentin9 the very best in national, regional, and loca I· e-ntertainment in an adult atmosphere. Nov. 18: \Todd Hobin Band\ (Aries Recording Artist) ~ov. 19-~0: The debut of \Burgundy Band\ Nov. 21: \805\ (RCA recording artists.) Dec. 1: ..,,~rand larceny 11 rocks! Dec. 2: .. 'Tile Crayons\ (rock from Conn •. ) .Dec. 8: ..,,Aiecstar\ Dec .. 9: .~'The Works\ FREE DR~FT BEER FROM 9-10 P.M. EVERYWED.-SAT. -W'EEICL Y BEER SPECIALs- '5tlledule of Events fGr the Week of Nc.Y. 11-Nov. 17 Thursday, November 11 Speaker spc>ns()I'ed by the Political Forum, Women's Network and Womeil's C()mrilission: Karen Bernstein, Executive Director of the C€lnsumer Protection Board, will speak on \Women in Politic~,\ 7:30 p.m., Strauss Lounge. Student Prol11.dionof\REBEL 8 p.m. iil the Nott, tickets on sale in the Carnegie Box Office. Friday, November 12 Film,. \The Graduate,\ 7, 9 and 11 p.m. in SS016 Hockey Gan1e: Urti()n vs. Norwich, 8 p.m., Achilles Rink Coffeehouse ~resents: Voss and Osborn, 8:30 p.m. in the Cabaret Roo:r:n, tickets are $1 \REBEL 8 p.m. ln the Nott Memorial Theatre Sa.1urday, November 13 Student C()Iicert Band Performance, 8 p.m. iil Memorial Chapel Film: \The Graduate,\ 7,9&11p.m.inSS016 Sunday,November14 Film: \The Graduate,\ 7, 9&11 p.m. inSS016 Student Proouctioli ()f \REBEL 3 p.m. and 8 p.m. in the Nott Monday, November 15 Scuba Club Meetblg, 7:30-8.:30 p.m. in SSOlO StopSmokingCaiDpaign, 7-8:30p.m. in the Banquet Room,. for more info. conta.<Jt llealtb Services Tmesday,NoveiDberl6 Political Science a~d I.R.C. speaker: Hughes Goisbault, 7-9 p.m. 1n SS016, for Jll~re info. contact the Poll. Sci. Dept. ~cllnesday,~oveDJber17 Biology Club Meeting~ 4:30-6p.m. inConf. Room A Chess ClubMeetln!!,7-11 p.m. in Conf. Room A Circle K Meetillg,6:45-8 p.m. in 4th floor lounge Sigma Xi 'Fall Lecture, speaker: Seth Greenberg, 4 p.m. in SS115 (open to campus} · Film: A' Alice's Restaurant,\ 7, 9., & 11 p.m. inSS016 Chirp, chirp, chirp, chirp, chirp, Birdie Ribit, ribit, ribit, ribit Toad Lana, when is~ your tr.ain coming in? Doug-A personal, for me?? For you. xOxQ-me Pete-Would you like me to explain. life to you? Marcy-! know we couldn't have gone black,. white,. and very glossy together Friday. We'll show them how to do it next year! You're the bestest friend a person can ask for. I i> love you! .... Billy Teck Zod;-\N\ your problem? I can.help -Mr. Arcade Sarah-Dave told us so much about you. Come over andlet us check you out. -The Phi Delt men To the DB's of UC: Happy 1 year anniversary (fall '81-Fall '82). We're not getting older, we're getting better!! Keep it up!!! ...:.r..ove, the President of the DB's of UC To the roomies of 253 - a dead battery is NOT an emergency! 1983 . i:s waiting for you. Where are ya? Susie R ..... your \freshman\ Dear Mousie, I just want to thank you for beihg there. It's nice to have someone special to talk to. I hope you'll always be there because· you always have a friend on this end. Take care of yourself and be happy! Congrats on Stoneybrook! You deserve · it! Friends always, love Animal Amy & Ann, Congratulations on your bid, Tti-Delt couldn't have .. gotten two better pledges. Good luck. T.J.R.J.I. PARENTS ·weEK·END COMMITTEE APPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOX OFFICE Please submit completed application form to either Jane Wood, at the Career Center or Lorraine Marra, at St.udent Activities, Carnegie Hall. Deadline for applications is Nov. 19, 1982 For more informotion on Parents Weekend 1983, please contact, Jane S. Wood, at the Career Center, 370-6176 PARENTS WEEKEND · MAY 6, 7 & 8, 1983 JOBS AVAILABLE . Anyone interested in getting adv~rtisin.g · and/or business experience call JULIE at 370-6155 or 370-6658 - lvf( = T< wer rna~ tbes 12~ T1 KA, EV· wee Fri• Sun wer cha we kno aga s We SD' pra E the I sec 1 enj I noi wb lm hii -

- t? >n st is :tt et D 't • \ d '' v l e e 1 r I OONOORDIENSIS~ .Novemb£::r 11, 198! Page 21 • . ·· · · .. · ·· · ··. · · .· · .. · · G .. S.-Congrats on ZBTl I'm MORE PERSONALS ~ychedtobe your ~ister. Aiso, getpsyched .for DavuJson secret 'Santas! ... lJlve ya ~. To the Astro TurtStrangler- P .s. (Bob, is that .. betb~r?'Pm Well, it's .. been interesting- sorry abol1Ull6'l'as1 one, hnest!) maYbe we'll find you one .of .. these nights-How's Sunday· af ....... ..... -- Qavids<m-Get psyched for back rubbing,..._Thursday night! 12? -~-- - . To the DB's of UC--(TPL, KAV, . C-?, Lis-back again, EV-affiliate member), This weekend was the best-from Friday dinner (sans N.) to Sunday morning (early). We were in full force (almost} for a change. We have to watch what we do though-our identity is known to some. Let's do it again. -Love, MAV . · SJ:)T pledges: Get\ psyched! We're going to have a blast!!! SOT sisters: beware of pledge pranks!!! . Karen and Amy ... Thanks for the 7 & 7-it was great! Dear-Pudgy-We'll keep your secret....-Jan and DI The stars are out. Come and enjoy~ · Lori: Why is J. making those noises up in your loft? And which one of you is purring? I know how to \fix'' that. Give him Y<>ur arm ... or leg ... or ., ·_ ~ .. - . ;·-~ .... Dear David,. · Happy Anniversary! Here's to the s~ore, A.C., Pt.. Pleasant, ·softball games on Sundays, movies with the boys, band practice, Gary, BRUCE, Chicopee, Mass.; YG (boatrides, etc.), goifigtQlunch, the reunion, Grandma!, Evita, the Cranberry Bog, living together for two weeks and especially Wednesday night volleyball on May 12? Je t'aime. Susan B.R.-U. you're hu:ng:ry Michicans or McNuggets wiU do-either- wayl'm not coun- . ting.Besides Little Sam says it's a full moon, so let's howl1 - Love,dk . Dan~What goes better than baseball, hot d()gs, apple pie, and Chevrolet? Meatballs, michigans, nugg.ets, and PLAYl!l LOVE YA ... Stacy~My count stops at 3, but you might need your toes to count on too ... Seth- Tlu~nks' for all your help when everything blew up. Love, CM WRUC what? Shaw Bird-I'm glad we ha:ve someone at LaTaco House. I'll love· you always, my little prep. Thanks to you, I know the true meaning of \blow chow. H Delta love, 10..0 To our 27 delightful new pearls,-:J hope you know· what you're in for! ! AU I can .say is that you're going to love it. Delta love, a Wild sister All-Nighter Queens- \Buon giorno. Posso parlare con. Suzanna?\ I love you. Me Julie---Have any more kinky stories to tell me at 4 o'clock ifi the morning? Sigma Delta Tau, Congratulations on the great neophytes! You shouldbeproud of yourselves for nabbing the firmest G.D.I.! You girls, I mean women, sure know how to throw a party. You're great and llove you all! Brother Nat Patti-ya hoo! You did and I'm proud. Who cares if a little problem comes along now, we can handle it, right? Here's to go()d friends, good song, and Bridor. All my love to a pal! votre Pres. © 1982 ~ DISllllERS CO .. N.Y.C. MIERICM I'MISKEY A BliND. 80 PRoci \SeveMJp\ and \7lP\ are trademarns of the SewMJp Company Stngtanrs CLASSIFIEDS To the Trl~Delta Pledges in ~e~t. College, ooware of the b1kims ....... Loren W. AND Ann G.- Congratulations! I'm so psyched that we have a little more W. Hartford blood in our house. -Delta Love, D.P. Tux-Thanks for the keg! Delta love, The sisters To the fi'i Delta Pledges-We are all very proud and happy that you belong to us. Get psyched for an excellent time. Joanna Q,.-,I am really happy for you and am psyched that you are one of us. Delta Love, your first tempo_rary big sister 100: Why the heck do I have to write you a personal? You already know how much you mean to me ..... you are an ex~ cellent friend. Nuggie: CHUG, YOU BIG L. NUGGIE: Nice to walk around at tlle Tools with your pants undone,. YOU BIG LOSER. I love you, Delta and otherwise. 10.0 L.E., YOU KNOW HOW I FEEL ABOUT YOU. A FRIEND!!!!!!! Dani Dearest, How many times do I have to tell you! ! Knock 'em dead tonight. Delta Love, Your Roomie ' KHK-Now that we're roomies AND soon to be sisters, when are we going to get married? Delta sisters-Thanks for teaching us the real meaning of Delta Love! We love you- The Pledges In KAHJt! ! ! ! Happy 21st birthday! -the guy across the hall 4th floor North-Thanks for my new room. It's really great, even if it is a little small. At least the neighbors are friendly. P.S.~Does anyone have any candy? Joyce-Puerile, obstreprous, effete, etc.-Guess Who? Stacy~! told you so!!! I! - Glenn Kara and Rob-Being nice will get you places -GSK Alan-I don't need any Liberal Learning courses - Loren Suzanne-You'd better get the Cap'n Crunch before it's all gone. You're fun, even if you never get dressed. -Glenn Bruce-I hate you! (Only kidding) -Deirdre Football Team-Good luck Saturday at Hamilton. Make it 8-1. Uncle Al's nieces Thanks to some of the people around here my aerosol can has been working overtime. The Glade Lady Delta pledges: Learn those names and hometowns!! Love, one from Brooklyn IMPORTANT Garnet Layout Meeting _Monday, November 15 7:00 p.m. WANTED: Computer· Consultant Student with expertise in SPSS and/or Minitab (Fortran helpful) for small p roiects I port time work Please call 382-1210 370-5065

Page 22 !lovember 11, 1.98S 0 - 0 .s::. c. ...: ci Stewart, Bodmer Gain ECAC Honors AI·I-American candidate Steve Bodmer (53) about to recover one of his team leading four fumble recoveries. :By D. HURLEY -Sports Staf.f ' Defensive tackle. Steve Bodmer and quarterback Dan Stewart were both recognized by the Eastern College Athletic Conference for their pera formances in Union's 28:.0 shutout victory over Mid· dlebury this past Saturday. Bodmer, asix .. three 220 pound tackle was named to the weekly \honor roll\ for the second time this year. His efforts included thirteen solo tackles, three assisted tackles, three quar- terback sacks, two fumble rec1weries. and a blocked pass. It was a busy d~y for the potential AH-American~All­ ECAG candidate. Evecy tinle Middlebury lost yardage on a ADD ,.EN YEARS TO YOUR THINKING. The environment at MITRE is years ahead of what others con$ider the state-of- -the-art. As General Systems Engineer for C 3 1 -Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence·- for the U.S. Air Force's Electronic Systems Division, it is our challenge to look beyond tomorrow to the world of 5 or 10 years from now. To analyze and engineer one-of-a-kind systems that will be more than current well into the 1 990s. The importance of om work is why we provide an environment yol:J cando your best in. You'll work with some of the most accomplished experts in their fields. You will be challenged by long- and short-term projects .in computer systems, systems software, systems architecture, radar systems, and satellite and ter- restrial transmission. Engineers you'll be working with can advance your career a decade in technologies including fiber-optics, computer security, sensor technology and voice recognition. Your excellence is nurtured in every way possible at MITRE. Facilities, compensation and benefits to attract and keep the finest people. Full tuition ad- vancement plus an ongoing in-house lecture series from the unique MITRE In- stitute to promote your continued education, Plus exceptional project mobility and dual career pathing to get you where you want t9 be, doing what you do best. If you would like 10 more years' wisdom - without the wrinkles - come to MITRE. We've got the environment for it. Union College Interviews Wednesday, January 19, 1983 MITRE will be conducting campus interviews Wednesday, January 19, 1983. Con- tact your Placement Office to arrange an interview if you are a BS, MS, or Ph.D. candidate in: • Electrical Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Science Mathematics Physics Contact your placement office to see if MITRE will be visiting your campus, or send your resume to Phillip Hicks at lhe MITRE Corporation, Middlesex Turnpike, Bedford, MA 01730. U.S. Citizenship required. MITRE is an equal opportunity employer actively seeking applications under its affirmati~e action program. THE ENVIRONMENT TODO.UU YOUDO.ST. MITRE- ECAC \Co-offensive Player of the Week\ Dan Stewart in action earfier this year against Albany St. play, Bodmer had a hand in the leading ground gainer rushing action. Steve currently leads for sixty-one yards on nine the team 1n quarterback sacks carries. This week marks the with nine, and fumble fourth time the ECAC has recoveries with four. recognized Stewart and Union. Sophomore quarterback Dan Previously Stewart was named Stewart was chosen as \Co- three times to the ECAC weekly Offensive Player of the Week\ \Honor Roll\. for his efforts against the For the past seven weeks, at Middlebury Panthers. Satur- least one Dutchman has been day, Stewart threw three touch- elected to the ECAC's weekly down passes and rail for \Honor _ Roll''. For the past another six points. On the day, thr_ee weeks, two players have Dan had twelve completions in been honored, and for the past twenty-four attempts for 154 two weeks, Union has had a yards. He was also the game's \Co-Player of the Week\ .. - ••t•m a Union Hockey Fan'' Hockey Game Tickets , Pick Up Schedul All Students are Allowed One ( 1) PLEASE NOTE: For your convenience we have scheduled fwo (2.) days for pick ups. Free Ticket with issuance of their 1.0. HOME HOCKEY GAMES Friday, November 12, 1982 Friday, November 26, 1982 TICKET PICK-UP Wednesd<w, Nov.10, 1982 and Thursday, Nov. 11, 1982 Tuesday, Nov. 23, 1982 and Wednesday, Nov. 24,1982 PLEASE NOTE: The following games occur during the College Winter Recess and will be ON SALE from December 1st on ... These tickets are for PURCHASE ONLY! Saturday, December 11, 1982 and saturday, December 18, 1982 · :t( Th~ Dutch Hollow Pub 1( Dutch Hollow Pull wil be open for Four seating• on Saturday night for Dutchman's Night. The seatings will be 4:30, 5:00, 6:30 and 7:30 p.m. Reservations for SatUrday -Nigh~ wil be taken on Wednesday olid Friday aftemoo111 lletween the hours of l and 4:30 lit the ~et booth, CameJie HQII. RESERVATIONS ARE REQUIRED TO PARTICIPATE! Dutchman's Night k avm1ilble to 19-mtal plcllt holders twice a month, and to 14 and 10-meal .plan llolders once a month.· Don't F\rgetlll Make reservatiilns You don't have to feel left out If early, bring your !'ileal card and 1.0. you're not on it meal plan. We'il and prepare to enJoy yOI.irselff II gladly accept cash reservations too. - c - \' the sea the kee sea sta· up~ we1 rol! pe( sqt anc Du I ab fo~ wo cla otl to wt 0 an .... dil 0 .I:. c. na ~ Af ai . de I cl1 re st w w: dE U: ol ~ 5 tl b S; c (I c b c f• v a r 0 t! v r r t ~ 1 f j

~ • ~-i; ~;, ~? t.~ ~ ; a 0 ... 0 ..r: Q. ~ ~ OONOOBDlENSIS, November 11, 198! Page 23 Spqrts Talk Wltb SCOTT WYKOFF Sp9rts Staff With one game remaining in the l982 Dutchmen football season. the quot.flS de~cribirtg the fortunes of this year s team keep pouring out. Early in the season George Oberstady stated, ''the program is on the upswing.\ _Then as the Year went on the Dutchmen began to roll over team after team .and people began to· describe the squad as the \best in the east\ and 19S2 as ''the year of the DutchJ;nen.\ will get the funding to erect sufficient seating for fans in tbe \ near future. The most valid reason for the success of this year's squad. has to be attributedto the fine work done by Head Coach M. Bagnoli and his entire staff. Coach Bagnoli has taken a young team that rode a roller coaster last year, and instilled in them the confidence that it will take to make Union a football power. A team can be confident without being cocky and that is just what Coach Bagnoli has done this year. His plaY,ers go on the field with no .doubts about their ability and capacity as a team to Win. By JOE PICOLLA Sports Staff The Union College soccer Dutchmen completed their 1982 season with a 9-3loss to Division I power Marist College last Wednesday afternoon at Garis Field. · Andy Dreher ,provided a spotlight for the match when his goal the first of the game at 42:29, broke the scoring record for backs at Union. Dreher, who is a ,senior this year, scored 13 goals and. registered 12 assists during his tenure at Union. Dreher compiled tbe 38 points necessary to edge the top spot for backs by a single point over 1979 graduate Jim Manning. The Dutchmen held off Marist until the 13:52 mark when Tore Udahl put Marist on the scoreboard. But Union stormed back and score~ just five minutes ·later When Dave Philbrick scored from the right Loses Finale • • • side to put Union on top, 2-l. Marist suddenly came alive with a fnrious offensive attack and scored three goals in seven minutes to lead at the half, 4-2. Union never recovered from the quiCk succession of goals tallied by Marist, and the highly talented, quick Marist squad fired five more goals during the second half. The Dutchinen, however, did draw the last goal of the afternoon as senior Jim White scored unassisted with 3:24 remaining in the match. Union finishes the season at 3- lo-2. Marist lifted their record to 11-5-1. Season Spotlights The Dutchmen's unusually dismal record did include a few bright points for individual players. Junior Bernie Zeifang moved in to the nwnber ten slot on the forward scoring list this year. Zeifang has totaled nine goals and seven assists for a total of 25 points. . Sophomores Pete Stegemann and Dave Sheridan both moved closer to the top ten scoring leaders this year, and both have a fine chance at moving into the top group in the future. Coach Bob Magee recognized the poor season record, but he was happy with the efforts of his players over the course of the fall \Certainly we had a poor season record,\ he saidl \but ·we didn't give up, everybody worked hard, and nobody quit. · Overall, the guys played well. We just couldn't get the goals.\ Magee, who completes his tenth year of coaching soccer at Union, hopes to find and develop sorely needed offensive people next year. \We're not leaving this season with a , defeated attitude,\ Magee commented. \We know we've got to work to get to where we should be next year.'' People both see and read about the turnaround in Union football, but always seem to wonder and ask, \why?\ Some clain that Wirth is the reason,. others attribute the resurgence to the new football stadiwn while many argue that Bagnoli and his staff have made the difference in the 1982 tur- naround of football at Union. After sitting down and won- . dering to myself \why I think I have come to some con- clusions to this question. one year ago the Dutchmen went into the Trinity, Williams and Middlebury games lacking the confidence that they showed in those contests this season. Last year all three schools defeated Union and scored 78- pluS points against the Dut- chmen on the way. This year was a much different story, to say the least. Coach Bagnoli's squad went into these games this year with a much different attitude. Not with the outlook that they had to beat these teams to prove to the east that they were for real but with the confidence that they were for real and with belief that they would come out of that part of the schedule with a top ranking and a chance for post- season. play. Host Capital DistriCt Tourney It can't be denied that the resurgence in Union'.s program started with the hiring of Joe Wirth three years ago.. Wirth was a young, energetic ex- defensive coordinator at Brown University who saw the chance of totally rebuilding a Union 1ootball program that was in shambles. The Dutchmen ended the 1980 season with a 1-7 record but as one player was quoted to say, ·\There was a major change from Coach Cahill (union coach prior to Wirth) to Coach Wirth.\ A new spirit and belief that Unlon would soon come back .Jn the ranks of respectability came with Wirth. Wirth went .out and recrUited and ended last season with a record of 44-1 and the promise of returning in 1982 with almost the entire roster intact. But Wirth announced his resignation last spring and returned to Brown leaving behind a squad that was at the doorstep of greatness. Many also claim that Union is getting top football players because of the new Astroturf field. This one million dollar field looks very impressive to a recruit when he visits Union · College. :Ropefully the College The Dutchmen showed their confidence in their game with Trinity as they went into the lockerroom down by two touch- downs. Coach Bagnoli. set the atmosphere in the lockerroom as he was confident that his squad, with a few changes from his coaching staff, 'WQuld go back onto .the field in the second half and destroy Trinity. They did just that and beat Trinity by fourteen points. Those are the last points to be scored on Union's defense as they have .gone against New England's top teams and have not given up a point over the last ten quarters. Football is alive and well and living in Schenectady, and who knows what's next as Coach Bagnoli's Dutcbm.en are a very hot prQspect for post-season play and maybe even a national championship. Continued from page 24 ship to the . young Dutchmen squad. Joe Clinton has. started in the Union backcourt for four years now. He is among the finest ball handlers and assist men in Division III. Last year Clinton broke Union records for most assists in a game (15) and most assists in a season (37.4), Coach Scanlon . is looking to Clinton to control the offense and to push the ball upcourt. Junior Joe Wood proved himself to be a quality player last year. His 12~9 points per game clip was second highest on t)le 1981-1982 team, and a · little better consistency in his jump shot could easily make him a twenty point per game man. His great physical at- tributes-strength, quickness and leapin~ ability, have allowed him to dominate his opponents in the past. When asked about Joe's talent, Coach Scanlon replied ''he has unlimited potential.\ Scanlon plans to rotate his three. big men--Senior Jeff Feigelson (6'4\) and sophs Kevin Bartlett (6'6\) and Ken D'Orenzio (6'5\) at the two tall forward positions. Feigelson ~Athlete of the Week By D. HURLEY Sports Staff Athlete of the Week honors this week go to tight end Frank Kraft of the 7-1 Dutchmen football squad. With the Mid- dlebury defense .closely wat~ ching Dan Stewart's \favorite target \' Rich Kellaher, all Frank Kraft did was catch siX passes for 107 yards and two touchdowns. Kraft is currently Union's second leading 'receiver with a 17.7 yd av.erage per catch ~nd a 51.9 yard average per game. To date he has seventeen catches for 335 yards and six touchdowns. Kraft, and leading receiver Rich Kellaher, are both only two touchdowns shy of tying Rich Swan's 1967 record of eight touchdown catches in a season. · On Kraft, head coach AI Bagnoli says, \Frank is a key reason we are doing so well. He gives us the added dimension 6f a big blocker and receiver.\ Last season Kraft played defensiveendand was moved to tight end only this year. This move has enabled Bagnoli to move former tight end Rich Kellaher to the outside, giving Union two 6'3\ receivers and blockers. Finally Bagnoli comments, \Frank is as in• valuableaplayertoourteam as ·anyone.\ Kraft, a mechanical engineering major and Delta Upsilon brother, ear·ned a varsity letter last year as a freshman. He hails from Briarcliff, New York where he was all-league in football and also captained the b~sketball o and track teams. o Congratulations to Frank and \£.. best of luck to the Dutchmen d football team Saturday against ....: the Continentals of Hamilton en College. Frank Kraft was a starter at the beginning of years of varsity play under his last season but was suspended belt and has done a good job midway through the season for when called upon. But after an NCAA rule violation. these two, the rest .are all un- Although unfortunate for proven. Even the three players Feigelson, it allowed then· sharing the small forward freshmen D'Orazio and Bartlett position are lacking in varsity to gain valuable game ex- experience. Doherty has seen .perience. Both played well and limited time, . Laux played JV have come back this season last year and Lafayette is a more mature, physically and freshman. Time will have to mentally. The ability to tell. establish a $trong inside. game A somewhat easier schedule will be essential in order to open this year may prove to con- up the game for the guards. tribute to an improved record. The small forward position Three teams which the Out- will also see a rotation of three chmen lost to last year players. Last year· Scanlon (Columbia, Williams and counted on Jarosak to play this Widener) will not be on this position forty minutes a game. year's schedule. This year Scanlon plans to split Another asset to this year's the time between sophs Jim team is the addition of Bob Doherty, Brian Laux and fresh- Montana to the coaching staff. man Todd Lafayette. The \3\ Coach Montana graduated from man is the most demanding Brockport and has most position defensively which led recently worked as the assistant Coach Scanlon to say \I don't basketball coach at Hamilton think one guy could play it more for the past three years. Unlike than four or five minutes at a previous years his primary time.\ concerns will be to the varsity The \3\ man or small for- team, not to a jwlior varsity ward will be more demanding squad as Union is not fielding this year than in year's past one this year. Lack of players because Scanlon plans to play was the reason cited by Coach more zone defense this year. Scanlon as to the absence of the More accurately, he will be JV team. He hopes to recon- ''forced'' to play more zone. The stitute the JV program next overall team quickness and year. Scanlon had only raves for speed is· suspect and zone Montana saying he's \an ex- defense is one way to com- cellent coach, organized and a pensate. hard worker.\ Another suspect area in this The Dutchmen appear to have year's team lies in the the ingredients for a fine \quality\ of the depth on the basketball campaign this year. team. Sophomore Pete Gillen is Two key things to watch for are a capable guard who has seen a the play of the big men and the good amount of varsity play. ability of the starters to remain Junior Tom Blackburn has two healthy. -SCOREBOARD- FOOTBALL (7-1) Union 28 Marist9 SOCCER (3-10-2) RUGBY (4~3) Middlebury 0 Union 3 - Amherst 18 Unlen9 ·.-SPORTS HAPPENINGs- Nov. 11-18 Varsity Football Vars.ity Hockey JV Hockey Nov. 13 at Hamiltqn Nov. 12 Norwich Nov. 12 Milford Blues Nov. 13 Northwood School Varsity Basketball Nov.19 & 20Capital District Tournament X-Country Nov. 13 NCAA Qualifying Meet Rugby · Nov. 13 at Albany Old Green 1:30 8:00 3:30 5:00 1:00

. ~ \ Page 24 OONCOllDIENSI8, November 11, t98B. SPORTS ••• 28-0, stand 7-1 Football Buries Panthers 0 0 -a ...,: o.1 By LOU GEORGE Sports Staff The Dutdunen have only one game left in their tremendous season and there is still a lot at stake. The Dutchmen are looking to maintain thei~· nwnber one rating in England and to better seventh place ranking current Lambert Bowl · addition, they are 'also lOQ~~ to be selected for a ·nO;m;s; playoff berth w ilappen if they get passes and ran for another score. Dan was twelve of twenty.four .for 154 yards and was also the leading ground gainer for the day ~allying sixty- one yards on nine carries. Frank Kraft, who led the .. receiving corps with six .• r~ptions for 107 yards, hauled m,two of Stewart's touchdown ~ a~riats, while Kevin Gibbons ebtnpleted the connection on St$wartts third. Defensively, · · . eorge Oberstadt and four other teams \'ho.hh. u~llll\''· lm;e this weekend in or(ier;\OO~aid::.<,c er led the charge. selected to the !'Honor Roll\ for . ~t:&tllltf\ st e 11 a.r per- the Unwn cause. The also have a chance to Union football recbrd a nwnber of and individual reqords within reach. [ Considering ~11 distractions,· a chmen's big perennial New \-4''\\ .... \\' Middlebury, one Union might be \\\ .. \ 1 \'\ 1 1-6 Hamilton Rich Kellaher that will be the I would have overlooking _,,.,. __ win over a dlebury, but this has a lot of quality to fidence. We stake Saturday we'll be rg,;ariv This.past Sattmd'a• men played the \turf\ for and ended in Dutchmen , fensively and defensively, performed solidly. Offensively, Dan Stewart, who was honored with the selection as ECAC \Offensive Player of the Week,\ threw three touchdown t!fti9~e recorded thirteen assisted on three ~\~\ihlln for two and a Oberstadt, who •::~nl-Jf3::1fHJ g in- to eight, thefts while !IeJisnre back- . scored first on from their yard line. The two passes from to senior Kevin eleven yards and Frank Kraft which yards. Also, and George -'·'---..:1 for twenty- five on the ground to set up <:! ... , ..... ,_t's eleven yard scoring run. A fumbled pwtt then gave the Panthers tremendous field position at the Union twenty-six yard line. This scoring threat was thwarted by the clutch defensive play of cornerback Len Huttner who intercepted the ball in the endzone. With 1: 18 left in the first half, Stewart and company began .a Stellar defensive end Mark Tavitian brings down a Mid- dlebury runner. Union's defense limited the Panthers to only 103 yds. rushing. ••• '82·'83 Basketball Preview Hoop Readies ByRICKSAPm Sports Editor The Union College basketball team opens their 1982-1983 schedule at home Friday, November 19th as they .host this year's Capital District Tourm nament. The teams involved in the tournament are Union, Albany State, RPI and Western Connecticut. Tenth-year coach Bill Scanlon, who last year became the College's all-time win- ningest basketball coach with a 128-88 record, has set high but reasonable goals for this year's squad. He aims to improve on last year's 13·11 record and to gain a post-season berth. Last year's 13-ll team .fell just short of gaining a post-season berth. Although the team lost only two players to graduation, those- losses will be sorely felt. Graduated tri-captains John Montanile and John Jarosak were fine team players who provided not only top talent, but maturity and leadership to last year's team. Their shoes will not be easily filled. The third captain from last year's team did not graduate though and will be heavily cowtted on to provide leader- Continued oD page :23 fifty-nine yard drive highlighted by the play of tight end Frank Kraft. Kraft caught two passes totalling thirty-one yards before culminating the drive with a fourteen yard scorihg recep- tion. In the thirdperiod, Joe Bogan blocked his third punt of the season. Bogan's effort set up a picture perfect play-.action touchdown pass to Kraft. Kraft was so wide open on the play that he thought he was the only man on the field. The final touchdown of the season on the \tllrf\ was scored by senior Kevin Gibbons on a six yard pass from Stewart, which ended the scoring at 28-(l. This season Union settled a lot of scores with opponents that have beaten the Dutchmen often in the past. It was the third consecutive week in which tne Dlltctunen have beaten a top New England opponent Bagnoli stated, \It is very important in terms of credibility an.d recruiting to do well against teams like Trinity, Williams, and Middlebury_ With the potential that the Dutchmen have for the future, beating top teams such as these will no longer be a rar:ity.\ Mlddlebur!f I 0 D t- D · Union 7 7 14 0-21 U - Sfew&rt, 10 run (Stick& kick) U - Kn~ft, 14 pa!s from Stewart (Sticka kick) u - Kraft, 11 pan from Stewart (Sticka kick) u - Gibbons. 16 p~ss from Stewart CSIIcKil kick) STATISTICS Mlddlt. Unloft First downs 16 19 Ru5he5-yards 55-103 39-160 Passing yards 199 ·154 Passes 16-36-3 12-26-2 Return$ yards 35 68· Punts .average .5-35.4 7-35;0 Fumbles lost 3 2 Penalties-yard' 5-.65 ~ 3.f All-American candidate George Oberstc)df steps in front cf Middlebury receiver to pick off one of his two interceptions on the day. Oberstac# is two interceptions short of Union's record. -tc Lambert Bowl PoU 1. Plymouth State (9-0) 2. St. Lawrence (8\0) 3. Wi,igner (7-0~ l} 4. Swathmore (8-0') 5. Montclair State (7-0-2) 6. Widener (8-lJ 7. Union (7-1) a. Westminster (7~1) 9. st~ Johns (8-U 10. Trenton (8-1) New fngltlnd Football Newletter' s Top five · l. Union 2. Amherst 3. Tufts 4. Norwich 5. WPI HOCHEY Faces Norwich in Opener By D. HURLEY and GAC Sports Staff The Union College Skating Dutchmen will open their regular season tomorrow night as they face the cadets of Norwich University in Achilles Rink at 8 p.m. The Skating Dutchmen won both of their pre- season games, defeating highly regarded North Adams 3-2, and a quick AIC team 6-4 . The pre-season win over AIC was costly for. Union as flashy forward Gill Egan suffered a rUptured tendon in his right thumb. Egan had tallied three goals prior to his injury. The loss of Egan, who could miss Up to six weeks, could hurt Union's scoring punch as Egan was Union'.s third leading scorer last year as a fresb1nan with twenty- eight points. \We're going to miss Gill/' said fifth•year head coach Charlie Morrison. \Naturally he will be tough to replace, but this year we've got more talent and depth so. his absence won't be devastating.'' In tomorrow's contest with Norwich, Union must cut down on the penalties they have been receiving. The Skating .Out• chmen were called for forty- eight minutes worth of penalties during their two pte--season games. Union penalties gave North Adams and AIC a total of sixteen powerplay op- portunities. AIC scored four goals ·Saturday night and of those four, three were power- play goals.~ , \We definitely have to cut down on those penalties,\ c.ommented Morrison. \Of the six goals we gave up iD pre- season, five of them came on the powerplay. We can't afford that kind of shabby play during the regular season if we expect to do well this year.\ Junior Bart Brooks is ex- pected to get the nod in goal for the Skating Dutchmen. Brooks looked sharp in the twine for Union during pre-season as he · did not allow a goal, and kicked out twenty·three shots during his two periods of pre-season work. J,.ast year Brooks was 8-6- 1 with a 3.6 goals against average while facing Division Two (,)pponents. -Hockey Notes- . . . The Skating Dutchmen will . travel to Plattsburgh State on Tuesday, November 16th and then take on Division One op- ponents Dartmouth, RPI, and Army •.. with Egan out of the lineup Union;s scoring ptmch may be hurt, but on the other hand they will surely save some penalty killing time . . . best of luck to Gill in returning to the lineup ... the Dutchmen lineup is not set by any tp.eans as Coach Morrison continues to shuttle players from line to line, as well as. to and from the JV squad . . . speaking of the JV squad, they will open their season tomorrow against the Milford Blues ( faceoff . time: 3:00) and will then. battle the Northwood School (Saturday .at 5:00). Both games are .in Achilles . Skating Dutchman Gill Egan battles AIC opponent for puck. Egan scored a \hat tricku in the game before being sidelined with a ruptured tendon in his thumb. · • ( • r .Q 0 .1: a. $ :I 0 0

