be a the o the is up- pre- earn. of oore, Bob and big , the be Dut- is up- ssful con- ted The has onal for for this, outp to and the . 1- IJ) c:: 1- ~ IJ) ~ .... tf) >- .D 0 0 .I: a. ~~~-· CXI, No. 18 York AprU 8, l982 Concordy Chief Axed recently By JOE MAGUIRE Spe.ctal Correspondent The Student Forum, utilizing its status as publisher of Con· cordlensls, fired Paul Grossman from his position as editor-in-chief last Monday night. The action came in the wake of controversy surrounding a confidential report of the Conduct Com· mittee which appeared in the March 4 Concordiensis. The report concerned fighting on campus on the night of January 30, which required Schenectady police in· tervention. The report was prepared by the Conduct Corntnittee solely for appraisal by Don Spring, acting Dean of Students. It named students involved in the incident, many of whom testified before the committee. Students who ap- pear before the committee are guarantee confidentiality; the March 4 Concordlensis breeched this guarantee. Dean Search .Narrows- During a March 8 meeting, the Forum suspended Grossman from the staff of the paper, pending an ad- ministrative review. The Conduct Committee lodged charges against the editor, and the review board heard testimony about these charges. The board, consisting of Ruth Ann Evans, chairperson of the Student Affairs Council, Alan Nelson, Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies, and Dean Spring, heard the case late last term. Grossman refused to reveal his source of the documenf and the charges were dismissed for lack of substantial evidence. By MARCY BURSTINER Staff On April 13th and 14th, the Dean of Students Search Committee,. led by Rudy Nydegge.r, will begin deliberations on recom- mendations to· be made to President Morris for final candidate selection. Out of 150 applications the conunittee has narrowed the number down to six. These six candidates were chosen based on their educational background, ex- perience with colleges similiar to Union, administrative ex- perience, their ability, to work well with faculty and ad- ministration as seen from references and interviews, and their sensitiVIty and interest in working with students on a day to day basis. From these six finalists, no more than three but no less than two names will he sent to the President who will base his decision on the com- mittee's reports. The six final candidates for the position of Dean of Students are Dr. Robert Massa, Director of Financial Aid at Union College, Dr. Susan Bolman, Vice President for Student Services at New York Institute of Technology, Joseph L. Mammola, Associate Dean of Students at Bucknell Univer- sity, Charles E. Love, Dean of Hobart College, Dr. Karl Schilling, Assistant Dean of the School of Interdisciplinary Studies at Miami University, and Donald E. Spring, Acting Dean of Students at Union College. The Search Committee., each rnem her appointed by the President, consists of Thoii).as Dowling, the Director of Counseling; John Hauser, of Administration; Ruth Ann Evans of Schaffer library; Bruce Reynolds of the Economics Dept.; Edward Craigofthe Engineering Dept.; along with four student represeJ!tatives, WeldOn Turner, .Marla Shore, Mara beth Soltis, and Brian Marks. Students are encouraged to meet and talk with candidates when they visit the campus. Those who would like further information on the Dean Search should contact Dwight Wolfe in Becker Hall. On Monday, April 5, Robert Massa, presently the Director of Financial Aid at Union College, spoke with members of the Administration, Facu1ty, and Students, in conjunction with his role as candidate for the position of Dean of Students. Massa carne to Union College in 1980 with a wide range of educational and professional experience behind him. He graduated with distinction in 1972 with a B.A. degree from the University of Rochester and in 1974 received his Masters in Education there. In 1976 Massa received his Masters in Student Personnel Administration in Higher Education from Columbia University and in 1980 completed his dl~oetoral dissertation entitled \Coeducation and the Formerly All Male College: A Description of Change and Continuity In Instit11tional Character.\ In terms of professional background, Massa acted as Research Assistant in the Bureau of School and Cultural Research in the State Education Dept. in Albany and he served as Student Financial Aid Counselor at Columbia I=EAR NOT TI-lE 0 o ~.~..GOD TEMPERS THE WIND TO THE SHORN LAMB \ RA61N6 STORM o 0 0 0 .() 0 0 0 (} 0 0 0 0 0 °c:-1:o 0 () c:J:S:. 0 0 oOo oo University Teachers College. More recently he acted as Assistant· Director of Student Aid at Colgate University, became Acting Dean of Students during the smnmer session of 1979, and was then appointed the position of Assistant Dean of Admissions. Colgate University is similar to Union in the respect that it is a -small liberal arts college which had, in the early 70's just begun to admit women. Presently, in Continued on page 2 Although the formal charges were dismiss~d, Dean Spring advised Weldon Turner, the president of the Forum, that the Forum should take further action. So on Apri15, the Forum passed the following resolution, proposed by Gary Chadick: U.C. Food Service: Future Plans By DOUG LANDON Staff Summer remodeling of the Rathskellar is being considered by the Skellar Manager Brian Cotterell, provided money for .such actions can be budgeted through Food Services. No definite proposals have been discussed by college officials of the Board of Trustees, and the availability of ftmds will not be confirmed until the end of the present academic term. . Director of Food Services Jan Gray has formulated ideas of what she would ike to see done in the Skellar. Her primary objective is a quarry tile floor with adequate drainage, which wou1d have a nicer appearance and be easier to clean than the present floor. She also favors a brighter and more open style of booths, and a mobile salad, vegetable, or Sunday bar. This unit could be placed out in the © 1982 United Feature Syndicate, Inc. O uoo 0 oO 0 v oo 0- open during the lWich and dinner hours, and concealed at night when the main function of the Skellar is a snack center and bar. New lighting has already been installed. Gray stresses that her pur- pose for such renovations is simply to upgrade image and appearance. She does not intend to destroy the casual gathering area function of the Skellar. Food Service is also discussing the possibility of utilizing the pizza pub in Car- negie Hall during the day for the limited sale of snacks. Since the recent closing of the A&P Supermarket on Union Street, some students have voiced concern that there is no convenient place within the proximity of campus to pur- chase munchies. Gray supports theproposalthat, if allowed and supported, food service would sell fresh fruit, vegetables, Continued on page '2 THOSE LAMBS ARE IN TROUBLE 0 0 0 c 0 0 0 0 Based on the fact that the Forum is Publisher of Concordiensis, and weighing the damage 1) to the Conduct Committee with respect to the confidentiality and 2) to aU the students involved, we feel that Paul Grossman was irresp4Jnsible m his actions and ·therefore should be removed as editor-in-chief, but not from total in· volvement in the paper, for the remainder of the year. The proposition passed with 8 votes in favor, 4 opposed, and 2 abstentions. The Forunn had been nnade aware of the damage to the confidentiality of the Conduct Committee by some members of the committee who attended the meeting. Ruth Ellen Lewis pointed out the report was far too detailed for the campus at large and that the lang11age, intended solely for the Dean of Students, was \quite frank.\ Spring later explained that the report was intended as a draft, and that he was going to review it and send comments back to the committee for possible reviSion of the docwnent. According to Spring, the report which appeared in Concordlensis was not intended to be a final report, even in confidence. Spring said that the revision process was ''truncated'' by the appearance of the March 4 Concordlensis. Rob Mondschein, the chairperson of the Conduct Committee, was also at the meeting Monday. M~ndschein complained that now \stud~nts will be more hesitant to appear as witnesses and bring charges\ before the committee. Unless Grossman no longer is editor, Mondschein contended, students would fear that their testimony would be printed also. Grossman had said at earlier Forum meetings that within the same circwnstances, he would print the report again. Ctmtinued on pa~e 12

<' ,, Page 2 OONCOR111ENSIS, April 8, 1'98!. Members of the Conduct Committee expre~sing their views prior to Student Forum vote removing Grossman from office. Continued from page 1 The editor maintains, however, that the cir- cumstances surrounding the events of January 30 were \extraordinary and that his motivation for printing the report was to make \crystal clear as possible\ those events. Grossman contends that something extraordinary happened; that \this was no roommate squabble; different rules apply.\ Neil Bernstein, another member of the Conduct Com- mittee, was the first contributor to the Forum discussion Monday. He toldthe Forum that they should not ·exclusively • • • consider the first am- mendm·ent, because Grossman's \violation of privacy and violation of responsibility,\ are also issues. Grossman, who claims to be \more disappointed than surprised\ :by his dismissal, still feels that the service rendered by printing the repart far outweighs whatever disservice the campus may have felt, or may be feeling. The passage of Chadick's. proposal puts Conccmliensis in the unenviable position of not having an editor-in-chief. Naomi Blank, who was elected as co-edit()r with Grossman last Dean Search Continued from page 1 his role as Director of Financial Aid here, Massa manages a $2.3 million institutional financial aid program and at the same time must also play a coun- seling role with both students and their parents. Massa feels he is well equipped to handle the enor- mous responsibility which the position of Dean will entail. When he first came to Union, he explained, he ''had to gain control of something that was uncontrollable\. The financial aid program was disorganized. inefficient, and in, overall, a bad state of affairs. Now that . the financial aid services are running fairly smooth he feels he iS' ready for a change, ready to broaden his perspectives. He pictures his role as Dean as \Supporrt1ve of the role of the faculty in sponsoring student intellectual growth''. He sees his role as a \Resource Person\ for faculty innovation. The Dean should act, according to Massa, as a leader for students and the Student Affairs Staff, as a servant to the faculty, staff, and students to bring constructive changes to campus life, involve those people in decisions, and be prepared to argue for changes If he saw enough support and need for those changes. Among the first things he woUld do as Dean would be to sit down with in- dividual staff members and find out what his or her goals are, have regularly scheduled in- formal conferences with students to discuss the current problems of the day, and have the same type of informal relati()nship with faculty members. Massa sees student support as one of the most important factors for successful programs. It would be essential that a good rapport with RAs, student leaders, and Greek organizations be established. Charles E. Love, the present Dean of Hobart College, met with members of the Search Committee on April 1 and 2. As Dean at Hobart, Love is responsible for \all decisions in the area ()f student conduct and student academic standing.'' He graduated Sumina Cum Laude with a B.A. degree from Hobart College, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and received his Master of Arts degree at Princeton University in 1968. He became a Teaching Assistant at Princeton, md later became an Instructor there. Before his appointment as Dean of Hobart, Love went to Antioch College as a Humanities Teaching Associate and soon became Assistant Professor of Philosophy. In that period he chaired on the Coordinating Council for Educational Change and New Programs Task which was responsible for educational policy changes and distributing seed money for on-campus curricular innovation, served on the Dean of Students Office Evaluati<m Committee, and various other committees as well. Love sees Union as a good academic environment and because Union went through difficulties in the past, he senses there is a need for leadership. He believes this to be a positive challenge and the only drawback he sees is the gap he would have to attem_pt to br1dge between the faculty and the Dean. Love noted the importance of listening to suggestions from the faculty and students and to try out new programs and ideas. He feels the Dean ought to be someone who would be visible and accessible to both faculty and students. When answering questions posed to him by the faculty, L<lve was well acquainted with specific iss\les and often gave interesting suggestions to problems that are common to most camp11ses such as ex- cessive use of alcohol and drugs, the low percentage of minorities on campus, dif· ficulties in counselling services, etc. He seemed c~sual, open- minded, and eager to work closely with students and faculty. The faculty response to Charles Love was very positive~ Following issues of Concordiensls will present additional · information on the candidates. December, resigned for per- sonal reasons late last term. Rachel Mandel, Associate Editor, cannot asswne the job either. She has resigned. She feels Chadick's proposal has created a poor environment in which to produce a newspaper. Tuesday· night the editorial board decided to leave the position of editor-in•chi·ef vacant indefinitely, and to share the duties and' ·respon- sibilities. None of the board members feels he or she is qualified to assmne the role alone, or with just one other. Grossman is now exploring avenues t.hrough which he can appeal the Forum's deciSion. Any appeal to be made however, will be made by Grossman as an individual, not as a representative of the newspaper. \The other editors have enough work to do,\ he · says. Grossman has steadfastly relused to reveal how he ob- tained a copy of the repcrt, claiming that his source's confidentiality cannot be compr·CJmised. To prevent similar events in the future, Dean Spring has considered tightening security in the Student Affairs Office, but thinks that such a move would \defeat the purpose of the of- fice.'' Sect~rity procedure for Conduct Committee reports, however, will be closely examined. During Monday's meeting the Forum passed a proposal which reccomrnends \that the Conduct CGnunittee take action to improve the confidentiality of the Conduct Committee reports in the future.'' The proposal, wmch was introduced by Bob Pavacic, passed unanimously on the first vote. After the meeting, Pavacic displayed sensitivity to both sides of the dilemma which has caused the controversy. He said tbat \as a newsman I might bave printed that report, but as a student, I wouldn't have.\ r------ 1 . Parent's Weeke·nd Tickets for all Parent's Weekend activities will go on sale beginning Monday, April. 12th at 1:30 p.m. in Carnegie Hall. Representatives of the Parent's Weekend Committee will be selling these tickets for the events of May 7th, 8th and 9th on a first come-first served basis. Admission cost for.Cabaret is $1.50 per person. There are two shows sch~duled for Friday, p A R E N T .w E E K E N s '-=-M=-=A'\*Y__ D 2-H. I :II& , May 7th at 9:00 and 11 :00 p.m. The Jimmy Dorsey Band will provide the music for the Dance and Concert to be held Satur- day, May 8th immediately following the Glee Club Concert. Tickets for admission to both the Glee Club Concert in Memorial Chap~l and the Big Band. Dance to be held at the Ramada Inn are $2:50 per person. Tickets for Coffeehouse and the fibn, ''Arthur,\ will be avaiLable free of charge. However, there will be a limit of four tickets. per family for the film. The days of Parent's Weekend, May 7th, 8th and 9th, are rapidly approaching. The Parent's Weekend Committee encourages yau to invite your family to share in your Union experience by attending these events. Remember we are limited by accornri)odatl:ons to the number of tickets we can sell; so we urge you to buy tickets early! ! ! Future Plans Continued from page 1 cheese, nuts, half & half, etc. at that location. The items would be sold at cost plus the expenses of handling them. With use of the acquired space not yet , completely determined, a survey of student opinion is being conducted in consideration of annexing Carnegie Hall. Ideas include a student union, relocation of the Skellar, and a central dining facility. President Morris has organized a committee of students to explore various aspects of upgrading student . life, according to David Eppler, chairman of the housing and food service section of that Ad Hoc Committee of the Studtlnt Affairs Council. The committee, which requests input on the Carnegie annex from all students, has been conducting presentations, interviews, and polls to determine student opinion. They welcome thoughts on the subject, and ~r.esponses can be directed to Eppler. -~--------------, To help you / I invest in yourself ... 1heC.W.&t SummeriCI8Z &~lleftn is -~adyNow. I I I I I I I I I I I .I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I C.W. Post offers summer programs you can value: a full range of courses outstanding resident and guest faculty, flexible schedules, excellent facilities on Long Island's most beautiful campus, only minutes from New York City and fine recreation areas. . I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I More than. t300 undergraduate and graduate courses, intensive institutes and workshops, Festival of the Arts (workshops~ master classes, performances). Day and evening sessions begin May 17, June 21, July 26 Weekend College classes begin June 19, 20, 26, 27, 28 TO GET YOUR COPY, phone (516) 299·2431 or mail coupon today. I Summer courses are 1 also available at: Suffolk Branch Campus, I Brentwood, L.l. Summer Se. ssions Of.fice . ~ LONG ISLAND UNIVE.ASITY \ttl 1 (516) 273.5112 • I I I Rockland Campus (at DominicanCollege) (914) 359·7200 c.'Wnostcenter . rGREENVALE, NEW YORK 11548 ~ An Equal Opportunoty/Aff~rmat•ve. Act1on lnst>tutoon Please send me the Summer 1 982 BUlletin. c Name Address City, State, Zip · I -------------~-------~ -

will i:n Big the per and be of the 9th, The are to can buy Ad the all ent OONOOBDI:ENSIS,. April 8, 19813 Page 8 St. And.rew's Exchang·e Offered Union College sophomores with a B or better grade point average are encouraged to apply for selection as the Union College ''St. Andrews Exchange Student\ for the 1982-83 academic year. The selected student will spend his-her junior year abroad at the University of St. Andrews, Scotland's oldest university. This student shall enjoy a full year's scholarship at the University of St. Andrews in- cludirtgtuition, room· and board. Applicants are to submit a 2-4 page essay (typed) evaluating their own educatiun at Union (goals, successes, failures and se forth) - with some attention paid to ways in which a year at St. Andrews might serve them. Students are also asked to submit one letter of recom· mendati:on from a faculty . member who knows their work well. Applications must ·be received .by Friday, April 23, 1982. A selection committee of faculty members and former exchange students will screen the applications. and will in· terview finalists during the week of May 3rd. Submit applications to the English Department Office Humanities 212. ' There will be a meeting .to discuss the program and the University's offerings on Thursday, April15, at 4:00 p;rn, Orientation Comm. Selected After much deliberation, the 1982 Orientation Committee was selected prior to the Spring vacation. The Committee's role is to provide a smooth transition for freslunen and transfers. into the academic and social at· mosphere of the school. The selection of the Committee was undertaken by last year's cha:irpeople, Brian Marks and Kelly Dennin with the aid of Mike Andolina, and Jane Wood; the A'ssistant Dean of Students. The Orientation Committee for this year will be chaired by juniors Tracy Hoffman, Marianne Sciortino and Shiela -WOMEN'S ·wEEK: APRIL 12-17 I nternationa I· Cabaret Monday, April12 7:30 Tuesday, April13 Cabaret Room Women's Coll.oquium Lunch Speaker: Mary DeSantis ''Aggression: The Route to Success\ 12: 30 Strauss Lounge Coffeehouse: Betsy Rose & Cathy Winter 8: 30 Cabaret Room Career Panet Film Career Panel Cabaret Slide Show Wednesday, Apri I 14 4:00 7:30 Thursday, AprillS 4:00 9:00 & 11:00 Friday, Aprill6 Conference Room A Stage 11--Carnegie Hall Cabaret Room Cabaret Room Women's Network Room Memorial Chapel Mass Transit Street Theatre Women's Night at the Pub Walsh. Additional junior committee members are Cheryl Aylesworth, Adam Brodsky, ·Cynne Glockner, Car.ol Han- netta, Cory Lewkowi~. Doug MacFadden, Daniel O'Neil and Dave' Seubert. The sophomore members include Jodi Brenner, Sarah Couch, and Marge Kinder. Eileen O'Connel and Natalie Oransky are the lone freshmen of the group. ''This year's Orientation Committee,.'' according to Mike Andolina, ''is a diverse group.of enthusiastic, capable and highly motivated students.'' The Orientation Committee is not only responsible for selecting the orientation ad- visers, but also planning all of the activities during the four day orientation next fall. This past week the committee has concentrated on selecting ap-. proximately 76 ~OA's .from over 230 well qualified applicants. • The competition is tough, but . the selection process is .fair. . \Each candidate is viewed · objectively .in terms of their qualities in being an O.A.,\ stressed co-chairperson Sheila Walsh. Pearl Goes To Poetry Contest Sophomore Glenn Pearl has been selected to represent Union Cnllege at the annual· Glascock Intercollegiate Poetry Contest held at Mt. Holyoke on April 17-17. As Union's representative, Pearl will be competing against participants from Booklyn College, Colby College, University of Massachusetts, McGill, and Mt. Holyoke. United Jewish Appeal: Week of EventS By LAUREN FINK Staff The United Jewish Appeal of Uniop College sponsored \Identity and Awareness Week'' during the first week of Spring Term. Through their diverse offerings, the UJA reached a large .gtoup of Jewish and non-Jewish students. \Hester Street,\ a hwnorous and heart-warming movie about the assimilation of Jews in America at the turn of the century was shown Wednesday night, March :n. The movie received a tremendous and diverse student turnout. Thursday, April 1, Reverend John S. Gravel gave an in- formative speech about his experiences on the ship \The Exodus.'' In his historic~! speech, Reverend Gravel reminded Jewish students of their unique history. Professor Steven Berk gave a truly inspiring talk on \Responsibility and Com· mitment\ on Friday, April 2. Berk spoke on basic Jewish problems and their relation to the Union College student. The ~peech raised many questions that compelled students to contemplate their identities as Jews. An Israeli fair completed the week on Saturday. At the fair, food was served, students danced to music, slides were shown and literature was available. IMPORTANT: There will be a meeting for all student organizations interested in funding for 1982-83 on Tuesday, April 13 at 4:00 in Conference Room A--Carnegie Hall ADELPHI UNIVERSITY'S hr. course- • in-class practice exams • audio tape library • GUARANTEE: If you don'tscoreinthe top 25°/o, take the next course FREE NOW offered in ALBANY and the law school admission process to be held at the Best Western-Thruway House, 1375 Washington Ave., Albany at 6:30 P.M. on- March 23. For further information, to attend a Q & A session or to enroll in the next course, Call COLLECT: (51&) 481·4034 or write: LSAT Preparation Course, Adelphi Univer- sity, Center for Career & Lifelong Learning, 30.7 Eagle Avenut, West Hempstead, N.Y. 11552 Contact locally: St11art Schwartz (518) 489·5660 In with The National Center for Educational Inc.

Page 4 OONCORDIENSISJ April .B) 198~ featureS Skellar History By THOMMlCHING Quite recently the· con- troversial demolition of the Morosco and Helen Hayes Theatres began in New York City. Plans to halt the inevitable destruction . were ignored, protestors were arrested and demolition began shortly after 10 p.m. on March 23, 1982. Proponents claimed that the razing of the theatres would allow the construction of the Portman Hotel in hopes of rejuvenating Broadway and Times Square to their former vigorously opposed the :sale of beer and proposed to provide an additional $500 to the Skeller if the distribution of beer was prohibited. This was directly contrary to the aims of the chairperson of the Dutchmen's Rathskeller Committee. It would not be a \beer joint'' but a place for all at Union to spend · odd moments and dates in a social atmosphere. The Skellar's Foosball table is a ~pular attraction. .luster. Now, 180 miles from this metropolis, similar cir- cumstances are about to occur oil Union campus -- most notably at the Rathskeller. Several plans are being con- sidered to renovate Old Chapel and subsequently alter the facilities at the Skeller. Numerous students, upon learning of these plans, were obviously distraught and in- d~gnant claiming that the renovations would. \destroy the charms and atmosphere there (at the Skellar).\ After much debate over the distribution of beer, which had been ironically ruled by the college to be a non-intoxicating beverage thus accounting for its sale. Finally with the use of the loophole, the opening of the ~keller was thought to be· inevitable. Unfortunately, several other problems developed. Among them was the waning interest of the Union students at the tjme. Since the Skeller was basically a student- . organized project in which the students provided both financial support and labor. Now after muchdelay, work on theSkeller finally began and eventually opened at 4:30 p.m. on December 2 minus its beer license, which was still pending. Otherwise everything else was as planned. The first newcomers found hamburgers, Bl,ame It On ·Union! By ERIC W. RUBEN How it started is still foggy to me. I was typing my last paper of the winter term and seemed to fall asleep at.the typewriter. Suddenly, I felt a cold chill drive deep into my bones. I sat up to spy a blurry, white form come toward me. Frozen in my seat, unable to move, I listened closely to him. He said he was my guide. I think I know who he was. To hell and back. It is a statement that long ago had seemed bland to me. When I had been told to take a journey to that final loneliness I could only conjure the comic pictures of tails and horns. Until then, I never knew what it was truly like. The horror is real, and now, ... 'now I am here. My guide informedme that its murky depths are a different reality for every soul that is unfortunate enough to be ex- posed to it. What is seen by one's eyes is totally different from what is seen by the eyes of another. Suddenly my guide and I were at the gate. Don't ask me how I got there for I will never know. It looked as if it were the gate to the gardens of the school but something was wrong. It was as if a facade had been lifted, revealing the true inside of the place. It was misty. I was compelled to enter. I walked for a small time when I unknowingly came upon a pool of quick-sand. Stumbling into it I panicked and began to sink like a rock. The guide's voice spoke to me, assuring me that I had nothing to fear. (Don't believe everything you hear.) As I sunk I closed my eyes. Suddenly I began to see. My breathing slowly came back to me. I was no longer in quick- sand. I was in a strange yet familiar place. There are no walls. The figure is surrounded by red. An authoritative voice commands me to begin my paper. As I sit at this desk I know it must be wrong. When I finish my paper I Zeta Beta Tau's 3rd Annual IJgliestM an On Campus Vote for your choice of U.M~O.C. April 19-27 PRIZES include: a portable AM-FM stereo cassette player-recorder, kegs of beer, dinners for two, scotch, wine, champagne, a ''special gift 11 from Orion's Boutique, U.M.O.C. shirts, cases of beer and much, much more!!! Winners wi II be announced at the 3rd Annual ZBT U.M.O.C. Band Party on Tuesday, April 27 The Al-umni Gym featuring BLOTTO Get your tickets now!!·! hand it to the figure. In an in- stant he reads it and screams his dissatifaction: I am told to rewrite it. I resubmit my work and again it is violently rejected. I scream and try to run away. The figure takes an axe to me. He then throws my pieces into a pool of lava. I then .crawl from this pool in one piece and slither somehow to my waiting desk. I know I will be here till the end of time: I have resigned myself to it all. I know you will not accept · this essay and yet I write it anyway, finding my own satisfaction in this endless cycle. It is a cool spot within the flame, a joy within my hell. It is very funny. I laugh at myself and then I sit up straight and begin to write again. , However, the history of the Skeller has always been con- troversial since its conception in 194 7. The Skeller presently occupies the former basement of the Geology Building which had served as a storage area for the library. The plans of the founders of the RathSkeller was to have an on-campus meeting place for independents .and-any• others who wanted to use it, where people could get soft drinks, beer and light meals. But opposition quickly developed. The controversy over the sale of beer was op- posed because of the. in- tOltication of Union students and the proximity of the Skeller to Memorial Chapel and St. John's the Evangelist Church. At the time, Chaplain C. Victor Brown Nott Ancestry· ( CNB )-Union College fresh- man Dudley C. Harris of Weston, Mass., may be new to the College, but his ancestry is Nott. Harris is the great-great- great-great grandson of Eliphalet Nott, Union College president for 62 years, and the great-great grandson of the College's seventh president, Eliphalet Nott Potter. Eliphalet Nott became the fourth presdient of Union in 1804, when the College was nine years old. He was president until his death in 1866, serving the longest term of any American college president. He was also instrumental ·in founding Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy and was the third president of that school from 1829 until1845. His curriculum innovations, including the introduction of an undergraduate science degree program at Union, helped free American education from rigid classical study. Nott's grandson, Eliphalet Nott Potter, graduated from Union in 1861 and was president of the College from 1871 to 1884 .. Fm· genealogy buffs, Dudley Harris traces his relationship to the Notts througH his paternal grandmother, Katrina Trask Sturges Harris. She was the daughter of Philip S. .Sturges and Mari-a Nott Potter, daughter of Eliphalet Nott Potter. Potter was the son ·of Alonzo Potter (Union class of 1818) and Sara Maria Nott, the only daughter of Eliphalet Nott. -hot dogs, sandwiches and a variety of other beverages were available. Two weeks later, the Skeller's beer license came through and the beverage went on sale that aftemoon. After its opening, the Union Alumnus said that the \Rathskeller is on its way to becoming a tradition on cam- . pus, and alumni who had feared the worst (should) no longer entertain such fears.\ But then how does this explain the proposed plans for renovation of this \tradition on campus?\ Although renovating the Rathskeller is not to destroy the Union tradition, for that can never be destroyed but it does symbolize the changing times. We, as Union students, need certain places of beauty, warmth, grace. and tradition to identify ourselves with Union and its long and illustrious history. 'fhe renovation would swallow up an old and charming friend, held in great affection by generations of Unionions. Perhaps such plans would be best confronted by the methods employed by the prot~stors of the Morosco and Helen Hayes destruction. Interested in ·Writing Features? Call 6155 Musicians Wanted Students and Professors to play in the p~t orchestra for Mounteb·anks' spring musical \Company\ If interested, please call Irene at 6900 I 1

;ale of ride an eller if r was irectly of the unen's !e. It tt'' but spend ~ in a er the :!h had ,Y the .eating for its of the lf the to be ately, blems 1 was Union ce the udent- ch the 1ancial after >keller ttually t. on beer nding. :e was first trgers, md a swere :!r, the came ~went Union the ~ay to cam- reared Longer lt then t1 the tion of .pus?\ the ·oythe .t can t does times. need lauty, ;ion to Union :trio us would rming ion by lions. lld be :!thods ors of Hayes I I . , \.S 0 OONOOBDIENS18 10 April 8, 198S Page &S features . . - . . ' - . . . . . . . ' . ' ' ' ' '. . -, : ..., -_ . . . . , . ' . ' . - . ..... . . . . ·. . '· .· ' . ' : A· Richard Simmon's SttJr.r: 1/8 Ton And Counting By PAUL GIRSDANSKY In old Sparta, young men had to pass through a ritual to see if they were worthy to survive past adolescence. With the approach of my twenty-first birthday this month, I decided to celebrate the ways of old Sparta by attempting a task that had been to now im- possible. I decided to try to lOse fifteen percent of my body weight in a period of eight weeks. If I fail, I must sing a Kate Smith-like rendition of God Bless America every hour on the hoW' for twenty-four hours on the steps of the Nott Memorial in a two-piece bikini. The Spartlets were so lucky . .If they failed in their task, th~y only had to suffer ·through mere death. The period lasts from 1 p.m. on March 30th until 1 p.m. on May 25th. If l am in a position where I m,ust warble on the Paul Girsdansky is hard at work on his weight loss goal. Humor Apathy Update By B. V, ROSINOV It seems that there has been quite a bit writt{ln about student apathy at Union College of late. Yet despite its long tradition of ceaseless probing and far- reaching journalism, there are those who feel that Con- cordiensis has not fairly presented both sides of this raging controversy. It is for this reason that we now provide \equal time\ to the opposite party in the debate. Are you the type of person who cares deeply about the world around you and who looks for ways in which to become involved? . . . Probably not. More likely, you are a part of • that growing segment in society which, faced with failing economies, faltering govern- ments, and the overall decline of Western civilization, min- dlessly dribbles countless Heinekens on its millions· of \Nuke the Whales\ t-shirts. Probably an overwhelming majority at Union, apathetics are not, however, very visible on campus. Of the several ar- ticles, letters, and editorials that have been written on the subject of student apathy, each one takes a negative view of this phenomenon. In an attempt to overcome this \anti•apathy\ prejudice, a group of un- concerned students have decided to form the Union College Chapter of Apathy International. While there is no real leader of the group, I was able to in- terview one of its members because \the mood happened to strike\ him. He preferred to remain nameless, however, not wanting to r'get involved.\ For our purposes we will call him \Steve.\ According to Steve, Apathy International has so far spent $0 in fiscal1981-82, but the group hopes to cut that figure in half by next year. Says Steve \Apathy International was, formed to promote the twin goals of ' sloth and inactivity, and to bettei: represent the politically and socially inert at Union College.\ More specifically, they hope to sponsor a Social Unawareness Week in the Spring with speakers on such topics as \Nuclear Proliferation: Who Cares?\ and \Don't Let World Hunger Get You Down.\ Also, in addition to a telethon for burnt-out seal savers, Apathy plans a postcard campaign to such public figures as Ed Asner, Jerry Falwell, and Ronald Reagan, urging them to \mind their own business. 11 If you are interested in becoming a member of Apathy International, you are urged to submit your name and phone number, along with a short paragraph. describing yourself, to box 1997. You will im· mediately be disqualified from membership. Meetings are never and attendance is strict. marble, then I will do my singing on the' first of June. Since I weighed in at an even eighth of a ton ..... z:iO pounds -- I have to lose 37¥.!. pounds. \' . . . And this is where YOU come in. As. an eJr:tra incentive; you are cordially i.nvited to help the United Way of Schenectady by pledging amon.etary amount per pound that I lose. If you pledge a nickel per pound, you will probably lose about two dollars. Go for it. Uncle Girz wants you! r~--------------------------------------------· 1 Send to: :THE SPARTA DIET I c-o PHI SIGMA KAPPA 1 BOX 2510 D Unio.n College I I pledge cents for each pound that Paul Girsdansky loses between 1 p.m. on March 3oth 1 and 1 p.m. on May 25th. I I 1 (signature) I I f (Printedname) (pb.one) (address) ·------------------------------~-------------- Plagiarism Epidemic? ,- .~ By DAVE FITZGERALD Staff Writer's Note: I was sent to Hugh Allen Nelson, Associate Dean of Undergrad!late Studies, to investigate the rumored \epidemic\ of plagiarism occurring on campus because he is the faculty member ina volved in the investigation of any suspectetl cases of plagiarism. The following is an account of my discussion with him. Plagiarism according to Webster's Dictionary· is \to steal and pass of:f as one's own without crediting the source.'' You can be committing plagiarism wheiJ. you steal a quote from a bo(}k or when you cheat on a test. According to Dean Nelson plagiarism occurs at two levels witll. tlle first being the actual number of oc- currences. This is the real number of times that dishonest acts occur. The second1evel is the number of cases that are finally brought to llis attention. This year the nUD1ber of actual incidents of plagiarism are probably occurring at the same level as in previous years but the number of cases in· vestigated are above normal this year. So far this year ten persons have been involved in plagiarism investigations, which have led to a variety of · punishments (usually an F in the course), including one suspension for a year. Although the number of cases befDre him have risen this year, Dean Nelson does n01t believe that there is an epidemic of plagiarism on campus. · a situation where \all students are suspects and all professors are out to catch you at being dishonest.\ ·· ' A problem that arises with each case of plagiarism is what the intent of the accused was. It is always possible that the student did not know that footnotes were needed, or that it was just a case of the student being careless. It is difficult to determine if the ·act was an accident or intentional. When dealing with a case of plagiarism certain assumptions must be made. The first assumption is that the student has read the pamphlet on plagiarism that everyone receives when they first come here. Everyone should have a copy but if you don't you can pick one up at Dean Nelson's office. A second assumption is that the student knows how to give credit to sources by foot- noting. If you do not know how to footnote, it is suggested that yo1,1 ask the professor that you are writing the paper for or you can look at almost any textbook and see how the author does it. One problem of enforcing the college's policy on plagiarism is that some professors like to handle these things themselves. Dean Nelson would prefer that all matters in thls area were sent to him because this would allow him to get a better idea of how widespread the problem is and it would also allow for better handling of penalties. When a professor handles the problem alone, it is possible that the person caught has been caught at this before. For a repeated offender the penalty would be more severe. By the professor pursuing this problem alone, the plagiarist may get away with doing it more times than if the problem had been dealt with by going through normal channels. For this fall Dean Nelson may publish a letter that will tell students and faculty how many and what types of cases were investigated by his office and how they were handled. This is to inform the student that there really is a policy concerning this issue and that it is enforced. To conclude it should be said that plagiarism is a matter that is of \continuous concern\ by the college administration and they consider any offense a serious one. -They feel that academic honesty is very im- portant to have and protect in a community like the one here at Union. So a helpful hint to all doing academic work here at Union may be: LET THE PLAGIARIST BEWARE. NO NUKES DAY For those accused of com- mitting an act of plagiarism a very unpleasant situation develops between the accused r--------------------------:-----.- and his-her profEssor. A charge At Skidmore College 11 am to 6 pm Effective Saturday, April 10, HALE HOUSE Will BE CLOSED ON THE WEEKENDS during the remainder of Spring term due to previous low weekend participation. Students are to utilize West Col.lege for those meals. Hale House wi'll remain open as usual during its regular meal hours Monday through Friday .for both lunch cmd dinner. of plagiarism Is an attack on your honesty which nobody likes to have questioned. For- professors, plagiarism forces them into the p()sition of being police personnel on the lookout for dishonesty ()f all . kinds. Plagiarism forc:es what should be a good relatiortship between the student and the teacber into for more information please contact Weldon Turner at 372-0534

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, April 8, 1982 Ill \0 c ...J >- ..a 0 0 -a i\rts & Culture Men's Glee Club, with Director Hugh Allen Wilson Singing Into Spring By HILARY HAFI'EL Swtday, April 4, heralded the spring with the first per- formance this term of the Union College Men's Glee Club in conjunction with the Wheaton College Choir. The concert started off with a selection of pieces by the Wheaton College Choir, under the direction of Charles Fassett, which included \Bouree\ by J.S. Bach, \Life Thine Eyes\ by Mendelssohn, and \Night and Day\ by Cole Porter. The men's portion of the program opened with \My Lord What A' Morning\ and con- tinued with a selection of pieces that encompassed a wide diversity of styles from Italian Folk Songs to \Hark! Ye Lov~ly Saints A:bQve\ by Morley. Concluding the program was \Te Deum\ by Franz Joseph Haydn, performed jointly by the two choruses, with Charles Fassett conducting ac- companied by Hugh Allen Wilson on organ. The per- formance of this composition celebrated the 250th an- niversary of Hadyn's birth, on March 31, 1732. The return of Spring was not the only event this concert marked, but also the return of Hugh Allen Wilson, the regular director of both the Men's and Women's Glee Clubs at Union. Professor Wilson had been on sabbatical both fall and winter terms, during which time he was . replaced by F. John Adams, who directed the clubs through their busy 'fall and winter schedules. In a short speech during the concert, Professor Wilson had nothing but praise for Mr. Adams, publicly thanking him for his work this year. In a conversation later, Professor Wilson remarked that while the clubs had come far during. the year, they still hada way to go. However, when asked how it was to be back, Professor Wilson simply said, \Wonderful!\ Union life examined: •create Theatre by Doing it •• : . By BETSY MODEST Staff Theatre at Union this spring is being approached from a new angle. It is naturalism which Nat~Iie Barandes hopes to capture in her production. The show is Natalie's senior project with the Arts department. It is an improvisational show ten- tatively titled, \Independent Studies: Subject to Change.\ Natalie's idea as director is to create a script based on im- provisational techniques and to address contemporary issues concerning college life at Union. To develop a realistic script, Natalie has come up with an interesting game plan. A situation is. thrown out to two or three people on stage and they are allowed several minutes to improvise. The dialogue which ensues is tape recorded during rehearsal. At home, the tape is played and the dialogue tran- - sformed on to the typewritten page. Natalie is then able to edit the material and organize a finished product. What results is naturalistic theatre. Natalie's objective is to explore a new way af writing plays. In the way described, she hopes to be \creating theatre by doing it rather than creating theatre by writing 1t.\ This \natural way to create dialogue~' is certainly an interesting concept. Another of the director's obje\ctives is to offer an outlet for ·free expression on campus. The situations addressed are based on college life because Natalie feels that not enough has been written for the college age group. College is a critical turning point in one's life and Union in particular is under examination in this production. Although Union may typify undergraduate attitudes, Barandes' script affords speculation on this point. Union and the relationships developed here are freely inspected and dissatisfaction with conditions is expressed. ·· Much of our emotional well. being is determi.ned by our daily ability to interact with both males and females on campus. We socialize constantly and a large percentage of our time is spent dealing with in- terpersonal relationships rather than on academics. Union's social me is viewed as problematic in this theatrical production. There are not an excess of ''couples\ on campus· and the men and women are dissatisfied with each other. There are a lot of tight friend· ships and many \one or two night affairs.\ Although sexual attitudes and varying ex- periences constitute one source of tension on campus, there are other sources: fear of in- dividuality, living situations, and Greek versus independent life. Each conflict we encounter and our effective ways ·of dealing with daily problems afford us the opportunity to discover not only the ec- centricities of others, but reveals essential information about ourselves. It is Natalie's idea to bring these issues to life on stage. On a larger scale, these social issues will be examined on the general univer-sity campus. The play will address student apathy, political ignoran~e, ·rear of activism, the traumatic. job hunt, career planning, and individual family relationships to name a few. The basic issue of· the Show, however, is relationships and the .influence which family, friends, professors, and administrators have on each of us. about a first time experience . Natalie recognizes that people need~ an outlet for eXpression and the theatre is one such outlet. \We all have the same fears and experiences,'' says the director, \and they manifest themselves in highly similar ways.\ Thus this naturalistic production, in exhibiting common tensions, is expected to provoke a reaction from it$ audience. The show will be both humorous and physical. The outcome should be just as unique and exciting as the original idea which prompted - its production. There are twelve people in- volved in the show. Elizabeth Baker and Adam Storke are assisting Natalie in all facets of writing and creation of the production. J o.el Beckerman and Ira Baron are im- plementing the musical element, and David Willin and Jon Skinner are resident writers. All members are in- volved in improvisation and singing. Thus in allowing the · cast to express themselves creatively, this theatrical ex- periment addresses both the theatre as a creative unit and the explorations of college life. Natalie's senior project opens Parents' Weekend and will run the following weekend as well. There will be six performances in the Nott: Thursday, Friday, and Saturday of each week. Natalie is open to any Arts Guild Appears Tryouts for \Independent , Studies\ were March 30th and 31st. Each of the thirty people who auditioned told a story _ s~ggestions about ideas for subject matter and music. She welcomes production staff ·and is willing to teach anyone about the facets of the tehatre: production, lights, set, design. Address inquiries to Box N'o. 006. Her aim is to involve more people in Union theatre. Hopefully the result of this production will be as provocative and sensitive as its original idea. The concept is . certainly unique, and I for one anxiously await opening night! Union College has long been without an artist's society. As of last week the idea to reactivate an arts guild took form in our minds. This is our first attempt to gain support for this new organization dedicated to the exposure of the student talent at Union. This idea came to a group of fellow classmates and us during exam week last term. A strong interest in a society- guild of students who would perform various types of ar- tistic expression, was displayed. But since it was exam week and it was a far- fetched thought at the time, the formation of a guild was delayed. At the beginning of this term, we petitioned student activities to try to gain official supportfor our guild. We were met with an unexpected and genuine interest on the part of Mrs. L. Marra, who was quite pleased with the idea. She promised full support and suggested ideas for us to get off ---WE DELIVER-. 374-1888 the ground. Soon we came up with our logo: The Union College Arts Guild. Our goal is to establish a society which will create three to four per- formances each term, possibly in the Nott Memorial. These performances would include a host of various artistic talent: pantomime, poetry readings, classical guitar, piano, violin, flute, duets, trios, quartets, or any other type of artistic per- formance. Mostly, we would like to show our support to the students who have original material, many of whom like very much to share their talents with this institution. Very soon we will announce a formal meeting for anyb<Jdy interested in being a part of this guild, whether it be for per- forming, organizing a per- formance, or suggesting other ideas which would benefit the Arts Guild. Set aside an hour to attend a meeting which will be announced in the near future. If 464 ·state st. Schenectady, NY you have any immediate suggestions or questions, no matter how trite, please contact Shawne McCord (6893) or Tom Higgins (6450). Together, we anxiously anticipate the per- .manent establishment of the Union College Arts Build. Wiln1lln!illlei AMERICA IS NEW WAVE COUNTDOWN Wavebreaker, 10-12 p.m. on Sunday evenings is a Top 20 countdown of NEW WAVE music from across the nation. This special feature is brought to you to keep you informed and en- tertained by: THE ALTERNATIVE R A 010 STATION Jorma ·Rocks By TOM KAROFF AND TIM EMSWILER. Jorma Kaukonen recently vei1tured to old Union's grounds on March 8. Jorma, who was the lead guitarist for Jefferson Airplane for several years before forming Hot Tuna with Airplane b_assist Jack Casady, played for approximately four hours with a half-hour in- termission. The concert opened with a spunky acoustic set by Rick Danko, formerly bass player with The Band. Rick was accompanied on harmonies by a gentleman who was introduced to the crowd as Shredney. Danko wa~ quite entertaining, but the days of jamming on bass with Dylan are clearly in the past. The past, however, seemed quite alive when Jorma took the stage. He could be called one of the greatest guitarists of the 60's, and certainly one of the pioneers. of the psychedelic sound. The long, wild hair has been replaced by a more respectable look, and the faded jeans have given way to black leather pants, but wtderneath it all it's still the same Jorma. His acoustic guitar pinched out tune after tune with great skill and care, and he managed to play just about every twte you could possibly want to hear. The show opened with \I Know You Rider,\ from the first Hot Tuna album. Other songs from that album which Jorma performed were \Hesitation Blues,\ \Whinin' Boy Blues,\ and the instrumental \Mann's Fate . .., Other favorites included \Genesis\ \I Am The Light\ ' , and- \Police Dog Blues\ from Jorma's album Quah. One of the best examples of his ingenious guitar style was his classic instrumental \Embryonic Journey,\ which appeared on the Airplane album Surrealistic Pillow. There can be no question that Jorma is a conswnmate artist with an acoustic guitar. Believe me - I waited in front of Memorial Chapel for two hours to get the front row seat which enabled me to see everything those fingers did. - T .E.) The only fault with Jorma's per- forming was an uneasy ten- seness which he seemed to give off. Although he gave an ex- . cellent concert, there was a certain severity in the air, especially during the second half' of the show, when he sometimes seemed to be at- tacking his guitar\ rather than playing it. Yet Jorma's style of play. did not detract from his overall performance. Any person who plays as beautifully, artistically, and professionally asJorma can't help but put on .a fantastic concert.

r t ••• 1erience. t people pression 11e such 1e same :,'' says l they 1 highly 1s this ion, in sions, is reaction how will I hysical. ! just as as the rompted !Ople in- ~llzabeth rke are :acets of of the ~erman ~e im- nusical llinand ·esident are in- .on and ring the nselves ical ex- otli the mit and ege life. ct opens will run as well. mances Friday, 1 week. o any ~as for sic~ She Gaff and 1e about ehatre: design. :N0.006. e more heatre. of this >e as 'le as its 1cept is for one g night! lot Tuna om that rformed Blues,'' and the Fate.\ ncluded Light,\ s\ from neof the 1genious classic bryonic ared on realistic tion that te artist Believe rtont of vo hours 1t which erything E.) The a's per- l8Y ten- 1 to give an ex- was a ;he air, second rhen he be at- ler than style of rom his ~. Any mtifully, JSionally puton.a OONOORDIENSIS, A.priZ 8, 198! Pag~ 7. i'\rts · & Culture I Roek ~ RoB Politics J ~ 'ByRR At some: unidentified date in the waning years of the 1950 1 8, r.hytlun Sfld blues met with bluegra.;Ss, ·jazz, ·Country western~ · Jamaican rasta and reggae, snd the seed of the rock androlrsul>culture of the sixties was planted. . There wa$ no stopping it. It wasn't jillst that ll of a sudden black da~des and white dudes could gro()ve together on the sa1lle nusic - it went much deeper than that. It was what the rn~ic stood for ..... The Loudnes.s, The Outrageousness, The Lille~alness . .. . 'Ibe . Rebellio:n. 'What better way .for a lost ~eneration to fightback than to umite under a new-fDund identity-. An identity which allowed them to discard the moral taooos of the times and let their inhibitions run ram- pant. 'rhe youth of America were cba11ging, transforming, tight 11nder the eyes of · Eisenhower and the whole establisment. And there was no stopping it, or so it seemed . . . Somehow, somewllere along the. way the rebellion clied down. Maybe it was that tile young rebels grew up and tile aging flower children found tl!emselves trapped in- side pin-str-iped suits. Or maybe it wasti:J.at the Vietnam war was waning down and the aging activists were without a cause. I suppos~ 110 one could really pinpoint jllSt what happened to draw tlhe riotous times to a close, b:ut one thing that is for certain is that they were .gradually declining. Abbie Hoffrnam and Timothy Leary were nm h>nger in the spotlight and Ni:=ron was in the Wbite House resigning while Gordon Liddy was on his way to pris()n. Surprisingly, however, there was nm l.\eal stirring in the grandst ands. There were no great lea.ders (or heretics) crying -for activism. Dylan's albums weren't on the charts any more and the great artists of the times were reminiscing over vr()odstock and Randel's Island. The \music\ was no longer ~hanging the world, or maybe tlle \world\ was no longer changing the music. Whatev-er the case, the next decade,. with few exceptions, markeCI a .quiet time for the politicaJ side of rock & roll. And it was llot oniy the music that was sinJdag into inertia. A wake ()f apatlly had picked up where Torn Wdf and HunterS. had left ()ff. It was one that seems to have left millions of brutally cold,inclifferent .peop.le behind. The establishment watched .our generation warily, only to find a paralyzed: mass of blank faces and silEnt submission. Lack of expression led to lack Df in· volvenent and lack of in- volvenent led to more lack ()f expression. Times were becoming· more conservative and the radio stations and record companies were affected right along with· the rest of us. New bands weren't being given much air time and older bands couldn't have enough of an impact on a p.aralyzed generaticm. Certainly there might be other media forms that could reach the people - but none that could unite and involve the energies of a generation the way that rock & roll can. It seemed that rock & roll was coming closer and closer to a ,kind ·Of politically submissive \art form.\ However, with things getting more and more serious in the eighties, and with new and innovative bands forming their own smaller record labels.. the music and the issues are once agaiit.<rbeginning to reach the people. The .spread of the L.A. punk scene to New York and Boston g.ave us a mergence of new sounds and new attitudes. Much like the birth of the rock subculture of the sixties, new sounds and aroused emotions are meeting together ;jp bapds that have been around for awhile, but are finally making the cbarts with their latest albums. Joan Jett on her last tour Most significant is that for the first time since Janis Joplin, a. decent nllillber of women artists are topping the charts and staying there. Joan J·ett's' recent success is one example of .society's willingness to ac- cept women as major con- tributors to the rock & roll scene. Joan put together The Runaways, the first all girl band to play all their own in- stnunents and write their own · material - with the possible exception Qf the pioneering Ace of Cups. However, when she started the Blackh,earts in 1980, no conservative Reganite Record companies offered her a realisti~ deal; and as a result' she was among the first \new\ artists to start her own com- pany, Blackheart Records. :Bad Reputation, her first recording with the Blackhearts is a ·blatant commentary on the problems women are facing in their strife to break away from traditional restrictive stereotypes. I Love Rock & Roll, her recent release, perhaps doesn't make as much of a social statement as did Bad Cornell Law .School Under(lraduate Prelaw Program June 7 to July 20, 1982 A demanding six-week program for college students who want to learn what law school Is like. For further information write to Jane G. Death, Cornell Law School 634 Myron Taylor Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853 . Repotation, but nevertheless its incredible .popularity is cer- tainly. an example of the chan~g values of society and its·· · 'willingness to accept women outside of their traditional roles. Moreover such acceptance is certainly not limited to the changes in the role of women on the rock scene. Recent releases by The Police, J. Geils and most notably, The Clash, are striking evidence that the musicians of the eighties are addressing the political and social issues of our times. Some might feel politics has no place in music (art), but I suppose that is a matter of opinion. If musicians (artists) are in the position to reach the masses then all the power to them. n is up to those of us who really listen to what these ar- tists have to say, to decide whether we agree or disagree with their message. J. Geils' tune, \Piss on the Wall\ cer- tainly might stir up some uneasy . feelings in not only Jerry Fal~well's followers, but in SDme of us who don't think of ourselves quite as conservative. Nevertheless, at least Freezeframe is stirring some kind of feeling. Certainly everyone might not agree with the statement being made by the album, but at least we're thinking about it. The Police are als() bringing issues into the limelight -:- a bit more subtly perhaps, but equally as ef- fective, at least to those of us who really listen to what is being said. Joe Strununer of The Clash probably explains it he$t in a recent interview that appeared in a California-based progressive magazine, Mother •Jones. \I guess it doesn't matter if they're not listening. It takes a certain person to listen. One out of fifty is the activator, the person who makes great things happen. If that one person could listen, damn the rest!\ The Clash's latest release Sandinista! might not have topped the charts (few people seem to be in the position · to invest $15 on a triple album). Nevertheless, those of us who have heard it cannot help but be affected by tunes like ''The Call Up,\ ''Charlie Don't Surf,\ \Ivan Meets G.I. Joe,\ and especially \'Washington Bullets.\ These .songs are telling us something. Sure they're great to crank up and bop around to mindlessly, but there's much more to it than that - It's not just that white dudes and black dudes can all groove together on the same music. It goes much deeper than that. It's what the music stands for . . . The Loudness, The Outrageousness, The Liberalness The Rebellion! o 1.::1 cas RtKorda One of the tunes from the Clash's recent release, \San- dinista!\ r-~-~~ COUNTRY CUISINE Featuring an Eclectic Menu serving Lunch - Cocktails - Dinner Before & After Theatre Dining Mon. & Tues. {lunch, cocktails, light fare) Wed. thru Sat. (also serving dinner) SUNDAY- ustrawberry Champagne Brunch 11 11 a.m.-3 p.m. Entrees from $2.95- including champagne \Sunday Family Style Suppers\ 3 p.m.-7 p.m. Includes: soup, sa lad, biscuits, vegetables, potato, baked ham, roast beef, fried chicken, coffee, tea or milk, and \minl 11 ice cream sun- dae. All for: $ 7 95 adults $4 50 children PRIVATE PARTIES Reservations: 393-0439 ~~on the Ice\ Center City Schenectady A Childish Attempt at Rock By BOB FOX . A new duo is trying to· edge into the rock music spotlight. Andrew Chinich used to be an assistant film director~ Pal Shazar used to create illusions for rock publications. It's too bad they gave that up to try their hand at rock and roll. They call themselves \Slow Children,\ and have released an album of the same name here in the United States after making a few minor changes on an unsuccessful English release. Even for a first at- tempt, this album just doesn't rate as good rock and roll. It doesn't even rate as average. The music is choppy and amateurish. The guitars just don't sing, they grunt. They use a synthesizer on some cuts, but only to make the kinds of,.sounds that make dogs cock their heads to the side and whine. The vocals are the worst. Pal Shazar sillgS on all the tracks. Her voice is extremely weak and her range is limited . .She sounds like a girl in a junior high school ch()rus singing a solo. Acutually the music is not all bad. The first cut on the albwn, \President Am I,\ is a little better tban the others, but it's far from good. None of the songs are the kind chosen to record on a party tape. The words to \'Talk About Horses\ keep running through my head, but to a different tune, one much more smooth and melodic. I guess the bottom line, the reason I don'• like the \Slow Children,\ if because the notes are forced into place, they don't flow. Also, reading a quote by Pal Sha2ar in which she says, \I think rock always meant more to me than to anybody else,\ is a little irking. She shoUld stick to drawing pictures. And ''Slow Children\ should get down to the nitty gritty and try again before Ensign Records leaves them in the dust.

Page 8 OONOORDIEN81S, April 8, 1982 Editorials ,; Letters , C011lllle11tary Our Statement This is a statement from the Editorial Board of Concordiensis. ·we know, better than anyone else, what it takes to put together each issue. Monday afternoon, the Student Forum voted to remove our Editor-in•Chief from his position. This action resulted from the printing ·Of a confidential Conduct Committee report. Their action did not consider Paw's motives for printing the report nor did it consider the positive contributions he has made to Con· cordiensis. As a result, it neglected to weigh the repercussions of such an action on the paper and, therefore, on the entire student body. The Editorial Board feels that the foUowing questions should be considered by the students: 1) Should the Student Forum have the power to take an Editor-in-Chief out of office when they have no bylaws to define the ext:ent of their powers'? 2) Should the Student Forum have the power to act upon any organization's freedom to regulate their internal affairs'? 3) If the Student Forum feels that an officer makes a mistake, should the Student Forum base their judgement solely on that mistake? We, the Editorial Board of Concordiensis, understand that the Student Forum has the power to remove the officers of clubs. However, 1n this case, we do not feel that the removal of our Editor-in-Chief promotes the well-being of the newspaper and the student body. We do not believe that by removing our editor from office that Student Forum has protected the confidentiality of the Conduct Committee; they have REACTED with a \poweroplay\ that has neglected to achieve their fundamental goal. They have not solved a problem. Instead, they have placed Concordiensis in jeopardy. At the present time, we have no Edltors·in·Chief. However, because of the unity and dedication generated by Paul and Rachel and because of their continued support we are able to fulfill our responsibilities to the campus community. We firmly believe that the student body should take a close look at the manner ln which student Forum operates. This specific incident illustrates the dangers inherent in a governance system that lacks sufficient checks of power. From The Editor With no alternative, and after countless hours and words, this statement and this issue represent my last contribution to Concordiensis. Concordiensis has and always will be an important part of my experience here at Union. I have tried to give two hundred percent of myself as far as the newspaper is con- cerned. As Editor-in-Chief, I always worked to improve the paper. I hope and believe that, at least to some extent, I have succeeded. There were always decisions to make, countless decisions. I always used the same criteria in making those decisions: \What would be best for the newspaper?'' and ''What is in the best interests of the school?\ Without ex- ception, those criteria have motivated my decisions concerning Con· cordiensis. After obtaining the confidential report of the Conduct Committee, I was faced with a decision that was both difficult and clear at the .same time. Printing the report would have violated the confidentiality of the Conduct Committee, but withholding the report would be violating my responsibility as an editor to print information that I deem newsworthy. I was elected to the position of Editor·in-Chief because of my ability as a journalist and editor; it was that responsibility that I placed above all else. · Violating the confidentiality of the Conduct Committee had to be weighed against my journalistic principles. Freedom of the press has a price; sometimes groups or individuals are infringed upon by what is said or printed. The alternative, however, encourages nothing less than censorship and suppression of ideas. I am fearful of a community that will punish an in- dividual for printing something that is true. The major argument of those who feel that what I did was irresponsible is understandable. Undeniably, there exists a potential for damage to be done to the Conduct Committee's effectiveness as a judicial body. But any truly responsible editor will print only that information that he deems newsworthy and truthful. It was only the extraordinary circumstances surrounding the incident that made this particular issue newsworthy. A free press is vital and must not be abridged. I believe that above all else as an editor. I regret that my actions may hinder the Conduct Committee. I regret even more that my past actions on the newspaper have been disregarded and that any future contributions have been prevented. I regret most of all that representatives of the student body will punish someone for telling the truth. Resignation Paul Grossman I've always believed that what I did for Concord-iensi.s and the Student Body, I did in the best interests, ultimately, of the students. Many times there were rewards. Most of the time the satisfaction I derived was personal satisfaction, knowing that I had done the bestjob possible. Not anymore. Considering the Student Forum action, which questioned and disrupted the . integrity of the Editorial Board, I can no longer function as I have before. Therefore I have determined that I cannot remain in my current capacity as Associate Editor. Enough is enough. I honestly feel that the newspaper must not be threatened in this manner by the Student Forum. The Forum has taken it upon themselves to \censor\ by removing the editor. Any editor in the future might question a decision to print, fearing how the Forum might view the issue. Since the Forum ap- parently does not answer to any other legislative or administrative body for its actions, it is the responsibility of the newspaper to place a check and keep an eye on the Forum through ·articles, coqtmenta:r:ies and editorials. This check has been removed, for all intents and purposes, by the action of the Forum. I cannot, in full conscience and spirit, continue to serve the newspaper under these conditions. I only hope that the Forum does not further abuse its position and exercise this type of total authority over the other clubs and organizations on this campus. Rachel I. Mandel ro~Jm l<JSsesl 3) . We all remember what, heppened. last tlme. ,som~ deei4(ldto Itav.e.,~~~..C~l!Yic·· .. ;t hW~· ~t~r~t\\·llappUy). ... ,aJn.~ .the!,,J party where be.et. w~ .. S()l(f. Jf . tllls concert was sucli a great Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor News Editor News Consultant Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Diane Pavacic A.J. Brodsky Naomi Blank Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards National News Editor Cindy J. Te~ner Copy Editor D.C. Owens Women's Sports Editor Kathy Bentley Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photogr~phy Consultant Richard A. Sher C3rtoomst David N eiblum Staff Julie Abelman, Joey Beckerman, Norman.Birnbach, MarcyBurstiner, ThomasChing, TimEmswiler, David Fitzgerald, Sharon Feldman, Donna Getson, P.S. Girsdansky, Susan Ko:pe, Doug Landon, Peter Mohr, Jennifer Paston, Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, Franklin Schneider, Michael Sharp, Andrew Sobel, Joel Stem, Julie Steinhardt, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne BtiSiness Staff Jennifer Amler, Maryann Gagliardi, Subscriptions Plloto Staff EvelynGurdin E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Es)lelman Janet Guiliano · CONC()RDIENS~ is ppblishe~. every Thursday by the studwtt ooily of Union· Cpllege, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York; . 12308; Public~tions Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Boxi .388, .Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the . Scllenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 31) cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in th~ United . ~w~. . .CONCOI\DIENSlS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). - ~:

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIB, April 8, 1982 Editorials Letters Our Statement This is a statement from the Editorial Board of Concordiensis. We know, better than anyone else, what it takes to put together each issue. Monday afternoon, the Student Forum voted to remove our Editor-in-Chief from his position. This action resulted from the printing of a confidential Conduct Committee report. Their action did not consider Paul's motives for printing the report nor did it consider the positive contributions he has made to Con· cordiensts. As a result, it neglected to weigh the repercussions of such an action on the paper and, therefore, on the entire student body. The Editorial Board feels that the following questions should be considered by the students: 1) Should the Student Forum have the power to take an Editor-in-Chief out of office when they have no bylaws to define the extent of their powers? 2) Should the Student Forum have the power to act upon any organization's freedom to regulate their internal affairs? 3) If the Student Forum feels that an officer makes a mistake, should the Student Forum base their judgement solely on that mistake? We, the Editorial Board of Concordiensis, U1lderstand that the Student Forum has the power to remove the officers of clubs. However, in this case, we do not feel that the removal of our Editor-in-Chief promotes the well-being of the newspaper and the student body. We do not believe that by removing our editor from office that Student Forum has protected the confidentiality of the Conduct Committee; they have REACTED with a \power-play\ that has neglected to achieve their fundamental goal. They have not solved a p,roblem. Instead, they have placed Concordiensis in jeopardy. At the present time, we have no Editors-in-Chief. However, because of the unity and dedication generated by Paul and Rachel and because of their continued support we are able to fulfill our responsibilities to the campus community. We firmly believe that the student body should take a close look at the manner in which Student Forurn operates. This specific incident illustrates the dangers inherent in a governance system that lacks sufficient checks of power. From The Editor With no alternative, and after countless hours and words, this statement and this issue represent my last contribution to Concordiensis. Concordiensis has and always will be an important part of my experience here at Union. I have tried to give two hundred percent of myself as far as the newspaper is con- cerned. As Editor-in-Chief, I always worked to improve the paper. I hope and believe that, at least to some extent, I have succeeded. There were always decisions to make, countless decisions. I always used the same criteria in making those decisions: \What would be best for the newspaper?\ and \What is in the best interests of the school?\ Without ex- ception, those criteria have motivated my decisions concerning Con· cordien-sis. After obtaining the confidential report of the Conduct Committee, I was faced with a decision that was both difficult and clear at the same time. Printing the report would have violated the confidentiality of the Conduct Comrnittee, but withholding the report would be violating my responsibility as an editor to print information that I deem newsworthy. I was elected to the position of Editor-in-Chief because of my ability as a journalist and editor; it was that responsibility that I placed above all else. Violating the confidentiality of the Conduct Committee had to be weighed against my journalistic principles. Freedom of the press has a price; sometimes groups or individuals are infringed upon by what is said or printed. The alternative, however, encourages nothing less than censorship and suppr-ession of ideas. I am fearful of a community that will punish an in- dividual for printing something that is true. The major argument of those who feel that what I did was irresponsible is understandable. Undeniably, there exists a potential for damage to be done to the Conduct Committee's effectiveness as a judicial body. But any truly responsible editor will print only that information that he deems newsworthy and truthful. It was only the extraordinary circumstances surrounding the incident that made this particular issue newsworthy. A free press is vital and must not be abridged. I believe that above all else as an editor. I regret that my actions may hinder the Conduct Committee. I regret even more that my past actions on the newspaper have been disregarded and that any future contributions have been prevented. I regret most of all that representatives of the student body will punish someone for telling the truth. Resignation Paul Grossman I've always believed that what I did for Concordiensis and thE> Student Body, I did in the best interests, ultimately, of the students. Many times there were rewards. Most of the time the satisfaction I derived was personal satisfaction, knowingthati had done the bestjob possible. Not anymore. Considering the Student Forum action, which questioned and disrupted the integrity of the Editorial Board, I can no longer function as I have before. Therefore I have determined that I cannot remain in my current capacity as Associate Editor. Enough is enough. I honestly feel that the newspaper must not be threatened in this manner by the Student Forum. The Forum has taken it upon themselves to \censor\ by removing the editor. Any editor in the future might question a decision to print, fearing how the Forum might view the issue. Since the Forum ap- parently does not answer to any other legislative or administrative body for its actio11s, it is the responsibility of the newspaper to place a check and keep an eye on the Forum through articles, commentar:ies and editorials. This check has been removed, for all intents and purposes, by the action of the Forum. I cannot, in full conscience and spirit, continue to serve the newspaper under thebe conditions. I only hope that the Forum does not further abuse its position and exercise this type of total authority over the other clubs and organizations on this campus. Rachel I. Mandel -Letters Not So Awesome To the students of Union •. College: The travesties of this past weekend cannot go unnoti~d. The time has come for the school to .come down hard on Richard Biegen and Jeffrey Mitehell-usponsors of the 'Awesome Party\' Biegen and Mitchell had scheduled a rock concert for Alumni Gym this past Satur- day. Security was not given sufiicient notice of this concertt so it was cance!Ud. Blegen and Mitchell unsuccessftJ11y tried to schedule the cont'!ert in the Pub. Saturday afternoon ,,they announced that the concert would be held in tbe Cabaret room. It was also announced that WRUC was assuming sponsorship of the concert. At about 8 PM security arrived on the scene and an- nounced that there would be no concert. Seeurity closed down the concert on the grounds that they did not obt_ain the neeessary party permit and they did not have a license to sell beer. The problems that must be dealt with are .as follows: 1) Biegen an{! Mitchell did not secure a party permit. 2) While setting up for tbe concert in the Cabaret room, all of the tables were stacked up high in a comer in an effort to - maximize floor space. Who knows how many people they planned to stuff into this tiny room in an effort to minimize losses! . 3) We all remember what happened last time someone decided to have a large campus part'Y where beer was sold. If this concert was such a great Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor News Editor News Consultant Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors idea then bow come the Social Committee or the Concert . Committee did not sponsor it? 4) There was a sign in West tbat stated that there was an \Awesome Cabaret\ Saturday at 10 PM. Cabaret did not sponsor this event, did ·they? This deceptive advertising only hurts the image of Cabaret. li) WRuc•s budget should be frozen and audited! Who knows what else Biegen and Mitchell might be doing with WRUC's funds! I personally wouldn't want either of these two ro have any say in where my student tax dollars go! Biegen and Mitchell have caused enough trouble on this campus I It should be clear w both the students and ad· ministration of this school that Rich Biegen and Jeff MitcbeU have no place em this campus! Thro.w them out! Sincerelyt A Concerned Student Salaries: Who Pays? Til the Editors: Few members of the faculty will take kindly to D. Booth's fatuous and often specious remarks concerning salaries in his the HWorking Poor?\ (March 4), but all can applaud hi~ suggestion that \salary raises should not come entirely from tuition raises, bUt should C()me partially from other (sources) • • • • \ Viewed realistically, students and faculty share an interest in both the highest possible faculty salaries· (which will.bring better . pr~fessors to Union and keep them here happily) and the lowest possible tuition {which will maintain merit rather than Diane Pavacic A.J. Brodsky Naomi Blank Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards National News Editor CindyJ. Tenner Copy Editor D C 0 .. wens Women's Sports Editor Kathy Bentley Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist David Neiblum Staff Julie Abelman, Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Marcy Burstiner, Thomas Ching, Tim Emswiler, David Fitzgerald, Sharon Feldman, Donna Getson, P.S. Girsdansky, Susan Ko!}e, Doug Landon, Peter Mohr, Jennifer Paston, Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, Franklin Schneider, Michael Sharp, Andrew Sobel, Joel Stein, Julie Steinhardt, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne Business Staff Jennifer Amler, Maryann Gagliardi, Subscriptions Photo Staff Evelyn Gurdin E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshelman Janet Guiliano CONCORDIENS~ is P,Ublished every Thursday by the stud~qt body of Union C~llege, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York; 12308; Publici;l~ions Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., BoX' 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United !States. CONCOitDIENSIS subscribes to tht! College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB).

'':1<$1';1;· ~\';;~. l;w; ~s·'i\ tft·'·.· ,.,,. ~''\\. ty\oi~< ~\'\ ~ ... , ~. fH !ld ry ~lf·\' ild.< ~.r,, ms~, ic ty lk lk in ia is lS !Y m ir rn n, r, n, r, s, el 1e li, n Ill 10 = ~0~ the te: ~ed S), OONOOBDIENSIS, A.t~rlZ 8) 198B Page v ConrriJe11tary Letters Editorials am\nd\s ate\Tib\e thing tn waste ooneyon •... Commentary; Of Technology And Men By NORMAN BIRNBACH StaH You can now buy an electric glassfroster that makes glasses cold for perfect drinks. You can also buy an electric egg scrambler that automatically scrambles the eggs you'll be cooking in your new Armour- coat ( r) cookware. If you get a phone call while you're cooking, you can always answer it on your new Zenith televiSion set, but only if your kids aren't playing with their Atari games. Technology-it's incredible. A few years ago, we would have never dreamed of some of the things we can no longer live without. Take electric pencil shar- peners. Five years ago, only a few businesses had one. Today, there's not a business around that doesn't have all its pencils sharpened electrically. The old, manual method took six., maybe seven, seconds-that's a long time nowadays. In that time, you could have scrambled two eggs and be onto your third. It's easier to have Con Ed sharpen your pencils than to do it yourself. It's faster too, so of course it's good-it's progress, and there's no stopping that. Ufe is made so much easier, now that G .E. is bringing good things to life; that> s what progress is. It alone is responsible for our standard of living being as high as it is. If it weren't for Ford's good ideas, it would be hard for Honda to make it simple, and we'd still have a long way to go before we got to Marlboro Country. Still, it's probably just as well that Panasonic is slightly ahead of our time, or is it? Progress, with a capital P, has always been deemed good, and practically no one stands in its way. It's done some remarkable things. It used to take years for the dissemination of ideas from one country to another; thanks to the telephone, years are reduced to mere seconds. That's what our technolQgy has done, really. It's speeded up everything. The Mayflower spent over six weeks in crossing the Atlantic. A passenger on the Concorde spends three hours. It used to take an entire day to travel fifty miles. An hour is all that's needed now. It used to take up to two weeks for mail to get from New York to Philadelphia. Well, some things don't change. But along with the technological speed-up, there has been a mental one. Our attention spans have decreased markedly. People used to sit through theatre productions that lasted for hours; not many people can last that long, these days. Television can take some credit for this with its often jarring breaks for commercials in between 22-minute, real- time, sit-corns. Television, that great in- vention of the Fifties, is also the cause of other problems. Peoples' imaginations are no longer what they once were under radio. Instead of taking in details and making a whole background from them, what happens now, with television, is that we don't have to work our minds. It's all done for us. And that's part of the problem, if there is one, with technology-we don't do any work, or hardly any. Why bother, if we have a machine to do it for us? We now have electric saws to cut the wolld we would have once used to cook dinner with, had we not a microwave oven. Modern technology has given us the microwave which cooks f()Qd in a fraction of the time it takes to cook with another invention, the crock-pot. If we need an electric egg scrambler, then there's no telling what other great and very necessary convenience will be nex.t. True, technology has .gillen us good inventions, like the car. But it has also given us the electric toothbrush whose sole purpose was to make it easier to blow-dry our hair at the same time. Cars, too, have some sUly things. A lot of them come with power windows. That's im· portant to have. Why? I don't know, but since so many cars now are equipped with them, it must be. Or, there's the gadget that allows the driver to not put his foot down on the ac· celerator, so that he won•t get tired on the fifteen minute drive to the supermarket. Cars have made it easier to go wherever it is you want to go. But it can make it too easy. A friend of mine lives fifteen minutes from school. Last year, he would always walk home. This year, after bec()ming responsible, at least under State law, he drives. Now, he is WJ- willing to walk horne even if it's beautiful out. When he's home, and wants to go out, he'll only do so if he's got the car. If not, he'll stay inside. So, who's the master? But it's more than justthat. If you own a car, there's the cost of insurance, maintenance, gas, and, if you live in the city, there's the cost of parking the car in a garage or the hassle of waking up early Tuesdays and Thursdays to move it. Who's the master now? Progress is good-we all know that. It gives us machines to do the work, the boring work, which we would have to do otherwise. Besides, machines can do tne job faster, giving us more free time, and that's good. There's more time to do the things we want, like watch T.V. I'm · not saying that's really what we want to do with our free time, but all that free time can get to be boring, and there's not much else to do. So we com~ lain about the quality of the she. ws. And yet, when we're bored, ve usually don't pick up a book What happens when the set's on the blink? But we're still the master, right? After all, we're tile ones who created it. We help it along as it helps us along. We are in control. Possibly . . . The same machines that help us at work can be the same ones that replace us there. An interesting point: Do we control, or are we controlled? I'd like to answer that, but the ribbon on my typewriters just about all used up, and my pencil point is broken, as is rny pencil sharpener. Ordinarily' r d go to the stationery store, but that's a ten minute walk, and my mom's got the car. 66 days until graduation

id ~t ' :? st . n if lt ·? . ty 's IS ln u ld ~y ly Ld ts in ty er. ~p 1e ~h m ic :y ,k k n .a ls ~r lS 'Y ill ir n !r n 1, r, 1, r, s, ~1 .e u, n n .0 ~ O:lr he :e: :ed 5), OONOORDIENSIS, April 8, 1982 Page\ Letters Editorials ·,.,.., J! L~tt~rs---J ., family income as the ultimate criterion for application and admission). . . The linking of salary to tuitiQn increases, whether real or merely apparent, creates a false perception of conflicting interests. This is damaging to the morale of both stud~nts and faculty and harmful to the iJl.. stitution. It should be avoided in the future. Manfrt!d Jonas Faculty Chairman Sneak Previews· To the Editors: This term the Film Comw mittee will be providing films for the campus community on Tuesdays AND Wednesdays as well as weekends. Because of record-breaking attendance this Winter term, most Tuesday movies will be FREE as well as The Goodbye Glrl, Arthur and the Camp Unicm Outdoor Special. Wednesday and Weekend Films will remain at $1.00. Some people might question why we don't trim back our film schedule and instead show \better quality\ movies such as some of the more recent releases. To be quite honest with you, we simply can't get them. All of the new releases are being held for distribution to colleges next fall. Most movies are not made available to campus fihn boards until they have completed their run in professional theaters~ EVen though pricCes were r()lled back to $1.00 at the beginning of Winter tenn, the Film Committee has eompleted the most successful Winter term in history.· Total atw tendance of Film Committee movies for Fall and Winter term was over 10,006 people! As you probably know, on May 29th the Film Committee will be having a special outdOor movie (IU library field. Because of advertising and security reasons we are unable tc pring the title of this film; but if you think a little bit-what movie is always shown at 12 midnight? Next year the Film Com~ mittee has a chance at getting Star Wars, Raiders t~f the Lost Ark, On Golden Pond, Cbarlots of Fire and many others. Thanks for coming to the movies. The Union College Fibn Committee Hungrily Yours My Fellow Union Students: Here we are greeting another Union Term without a local grocery store. A & P, the only grocery store within walking distance since P & c went out of business three years ago, closed in December. Our only alter- . natives now are Price Chopper or Mini Mat•ket. For students like myself without a car and on a budget, these are either i.n- conv. en.ie.·nt or expen. sive. Like Pavlov's dogs, I find myself. salivating at the sound of. ''anyc>ne for a Price Chopper run?,; and even when I am fortunate enough ·to grub a ride I buy more than I need in hopes it wfiJ:last 'til I return. My milk and vegetables go bad before I get a chance to use them all. On the other hand, a lot should be said for the ever convenient Mini Market. There are times when we must pay a price for convenience, but Mini Market bas a terrific way of convincing me to pay exorbitant prices for things I never knew I wanted. If you don't mind canned or boxw dried food, you might never notice the lack of selecti(ID; but I have yet to see freeze-dried lettuce. As a junior I abandoned the Union College Meal Plan two years ago and I value my in .. dependent meal plan. But after a term without A & P, I reconsidred. Unfortunately, I was not prepared to eat 2-3 .full meals a day (at any price) and I came to my original conclusion: f(lr a light (semi~vegetarian) eater, a Unian College Meal Plan would be unpractical. Just when I thought I exhausted all my alternatives I ventured angrily into the Food Service Office. \Why can't Union establish a mini market of our own somewhere on campus? Surely there must be others on campus feeling the same food pinch.\ The Food Service is our friend. They want to help the campus meet the needs of the students. All they need to know is the needs of the students. If you share this sentiment, please let the Food Service be aware of it. can or drop a note in their mailbox with a response or any suggestions. They are waiting tfr hear .from you. J acki Sieger Law School: Who Judges? To the Editors: \Believe it or not, lawyers in our society have become a dime a dozen.'' So claims columnist Martin Sands. He seems angered, threatened, and fearful that so many people are going to law school. HiS commentary, which be obviously hopes will deter people from attending law school, is oozing with in .. consistencies and con· tradictions. He begins his dissertation by condemning those college graduates that enter law.§.chool as an extension of their un· dergraduate education; why? These people (dare I call them that) get tbeir J.D. degrees and a mind\s aten'ib\e do not practice law. Following. his logic, this leads to a plethora of \unmotivated Wlemployedu attorneys in the job market. Of course they're unemployed, they never wanted to practice law. And by the way, bow many unmotivated people do you know that attend 20 years of school? Later, he claims that because such a large percentage of college graduates go to law school, the competition for the better schools gets more in· tense. So what? As with other commodities, as the com· petition gets more intense, the quality usually gets better and the price usually goes down. This, therefnre, leads to the employment nf the better students and the unemployment of inferior students. His statement that \jobs) even for the top scholars have been scarce,\ seems a bit absurd. How many Harvard and Columbia law graduates have you met today? Mr. Sands believes that only th()se that want to practice law enter law school. Where would you imagine politicians and law school professors get their training? Obviously, the answer is engineering school. Mr. Sands. you are very narrow- minded and perhaps; that is the trouble with present-day academia. Ever:v.one is so immersed in their own little microcosm that they become ignorant of the world around them. Luckily for thoS(! of us in the graduate division of Union University, the administrators ignore your philosophy. Each . and every student of each school is invited and en- couraged to take courses in the other schools in order to broaden their horizons. The freshman medical class is composed of engineers, lawyers and philosophers, only to mention a few. Perhaps, Mr. Sands~ they shouldntt have been accepted because they . demonstrated interest in a subject other than medicine. In conclusion, I must say that I know of no one that blindly wastes 3 years and $30,000 to get a law degree and get nothing out ·of it, be it strictly academic in nature or as a stepping stone to other things I highly recom- mend Mr. Sands that you re- . evaluate your own position and detennine why you feel you are self-motivated to practice law and others aren't: I certainly would not accept you into my law school, if I were in such a capacity. .Sincerely yours, Richard A. Benedikt thing to 'Waste trone~on ... Commentarp Of Technology And Men By NORMAN BIRNBACH Staff You can now buy an electric glass froster that makes glasses cold for perfect drinks. You can also buy an electric egg scrambler that autamatically scrambles the eggs you'll be coaking in your new Armour- coat (r} cookware. If you get a phone call while you're cooking, you can always answer it on your new Zenith television set, but only if your kids aren't playing with their Atari games. Technology-it's incredible. A few years ago, we would have never dreamed of some of the things we can no longer live without. Take electric pencil shar- peners. Five years ago, only a few businesses had one. Today, there's not a business around that doesn't have all its pencils sharpened electrically. The old, manual method took six, maybe seven, seconds-that's a long time nowadays. In that time, you could have scrambled two eggs and be onto your third. It's easier to have Con Ed sharpen your pendls than to do it yourself. It's faster too, so of course it's good-it's progress, and there's no stopping that. Life is made so much easier, now that G.E. is bringing good things to life; that's what progress is. It alone is responsible for our standard of living being as high as it is. If it weren't for Ford's good ideas, it would be hard for Honda to make it simple, and we'd still have a long way to go before we got to Marlboro Country. Still, it's probably just as well that Panasonic is slightly ahead of our time, or is it? Progress, with a capital P, has always been deemed good, and practically no one stands in its way. It's done some remarkable things. It used to take years for the dissemination of ideas from one country to another; thanks to the telephone, years are reduced to mere seconds. That's what our technology has done, really. It's speeded up everything. The Mayflower spent over six weeks in crossing the Atlantic. A passenger on the Concorde spends three hours. It used to take an entire day to travel fifty miles. An hour is all that's needed now. It used to take up to two weeks for mail to get from New York to Philadelphia. Well, some things don't change. But along with the technological speed-up, there has been a mental one. Our attention spans have decreased markedly. People used to sit through theatre productions that lasted for hours; not many people can last that long, these days. Television can take some credit for this with its often jarring breaks for commercials in between 22-minute, real- time, sit-coms. Television, that great in- vention of the Fifties, is also the cause of other problems. Peoples' imaginations are no longer what they once were under radio. Instead of taking in details and making a whole background from them, what happens now, with television, is that we don't have to work our minds. It's all done for us. And that's part of the problem, if there is one, with technology-we don't do any work, or hardly any. Why bother, if we have a machine to do it for us? We now have electric saws to cut the wood we would have once used to cook dinner with, had we not a microwave oven. Modern technology has given us the microwave which cooks food in a fraction of the time it takes to cook with another invention, the crock-pot. If we need an electric egg scrambler, then there's no telling what other great and very necessary convenience will be next. True, technology has given us good inventions, like the car. But it has also given us the electric to()thbrush whose sole purpose was to make it easier to blow-dry our hair at the same time. Cars, too, have some silly things. A lot of them come with power windows. That's im- portant to have. Why? I don't know, but since so many cars now are equipped with them, it must be. Or, there's the gadget that allows the driver to not put his foot down on the ac- celerator, so that he won't get tired on the fifteen minute drive to the supermarket. Cars have made it easier to go wherever it is you want to go. But it can make it too easy. A friend of mine lives fifteen minutes from school. Last year, he would always walk home. This year. after becoming responsible, at least under State law, he drives. Now, he is un· willing to walk home even if it's beautiful out. When he's home, and wants to go out, he'll only do so if he's got the car. If not, he'll stay inside. So, who's the master? But it's more than just that. If you own a car, there's the cost of insurance, maintenance, gas. and, if you live in the city, there's the cost of parking the car in a garage or the hassle of waking up early Tuesdays and Thursdays to move it. Who's the master now? Progress is good-we all know that. It gives us machines to do the work, the boring work, which we would have to do otherwise. Besides, machines can do the job faster, giving us more free time, and that's good. There's more time to do the things we want, like watch T.V. I'm not saying that's really what we want to do with our free time, but all that free time can get to be boring, and there's not much else to do. So we com~ lain about the quality of the she. ws. And yet, when we're bored, ve usually don't pick up a book. What happens when the set's on the blink? But we're still the master, right? After all, we're the ones who created it. We help it along as it helps us along. We are in control. Possibly . . . The same machines that help us at work can be the same ones that replace us there. An interesting point: Do we control, or are we controlled? I'd like to answer that, but the ribbon on my typewriters just about all used up, and my pencil point is broken, as is my pencil sharpener. Ordinarily, I'd go to the stationery store, but that's a ten minute walk, and my mom's got the car. 66 days until graduation

OONOORl)llj]NSIS, April 8, 198! Nestle Boycott (CPS)-Fe:w if any colleges are willing to call off their boycotts of Nestle Company products, despite the com- pany's recent announcement it will begin complying with Nnited Nations' guidelines for marketing its infant food .for- mula in developing countries. The boycott will continue \until we're sure it's not just another empty promise,'' boycott organizer Polly Mann says. Mann of the Infant Formula Action Committee (INF AC) says a number of college reps have called the group's Min- neapolis headquarters to \see if Nestle's actions are anything new.\ As yet, \no campus has called and said their boycott is over. Most of them recogni2e the whole history behind the boycott, and they're waiting for proof of Nestle's sincerity.\ Swiss-based Nestle is not only the well-known chocolate maker and owner of Libby's Foods, Stouffer's, Beechnut Gum and L'Oreal Cosmetics, but the world's largest supplier of infant food formula. But the company's infant formula marketing efforts in Third World countries have drawn intense fire, and sparked a boycott. aimed at convincing the firm to change its ways. Mann believes several hundred colleges-in addition to various church, labor and health groups-are participating in the boycott, which began in 1977. The efforts-smooth or not- are meant to publicize how mothers in relatively primitive areas of the world sometimes . use the baby formula in lieu of breast feeding. While using free samples of the formula, boycott organizers say, mothers often find that their own milk dries up, and are forced to buy additional for- mula. But because the formula is expensive, many mothers apparently dilute the mixture, causing babies to starve to death slowly. Critics also claim the formula is often mixed with impure water or served in unsterilized bottles, causing disease and sometimes death. Finally, they add the formula lacks the natural immunities that would otherwise be given the babies \' through their mothers' milk. Mann says the boycott helped push Nestle's U.S. sales down 16 percent in 1980. Nestle denies it's been hurt by the boycott. \The boycott actually is irrelev.ent,\ says Nestle Spokeswoman Susan Scanlan. The boycott's only effect ''is that we have made the an- nouncement more public.\ By adopting the U.N. guidelines, the company commits itself to removing aU baby illustrations on the product package, issuing detailed instructions on proper use of the formula, and stopping advertising of the formula. The guidelines also prohibit giving free samples to expectant mothers. The appearance of Nestle spokesmen a~ Notre Dame, however, didn't alter the out- come of the February boycott vote there. Nestle's Dr. Neil Christian was heckled and booed during a debate at Maryland last fall. Mann says there are 50 boycotting campuses ''that we know of,\ but speculates \there are more that we haven't heard about.\ INF AC is encouraging them to continue. \The boycott is definitely not off,\ Mann .says. \There will have to be a period of monitoring the company before the boycott ends. · Otherwise, we lose our power.\ ACROSS 1 Sunburn 4 Skid 9 Cushion 12- Saba 13 Lubricated 14 Time gone by 15 Confidence 17 Tidier 19 Want 21 Compass pt. 22 Crippled 25 Rodent 27 Mature 31 Worm 32 ToitsQme 34 While 35 Permit 36 Fish eggs 37 Place of the seal: Abbr. 38 Rendered 41 Employ 42 Let it stand 43 The urial 441mitated 45 Oral pause 47 Poems 49 Shocking 53 State 57 Mou.ths 58 Crown 60 Reverence 6'1 Number 62 Collect 63 Morning- DOWN 1 Chinese pagoda 2 High moun- tain 3 Nothing 4 Any 5 Frees 6 Negative pre- fix 7 Lair 8 Paradise 9 Touch 10 Mature 11 Click beetle 16 Number 16 Eagle's nest 20 Flounder 22 Conducts 23 Item of prop- erty 24 Manuscript . (abbr.) 26 Bullfighters 28 Zeus's beloved N.Y. Times ••sele.ctive Guide'' Controversial Editor's Note: Union Is one of the schools who have taken e:a:eeptfon to the Time's college guide. An. article examining Union's reaction ·to the book wm be forthcoming in a future Issue o.f Concordlensfs. (CPS )··A humorls't once descJ;'ibed a university as a pl:tce wbieb provides sex for its students, parking for tbe faculty, and sports for the alumni. But tf the outcry over a campus guide recently published by the New York Times is any indication, colleges are no longer the best places for that kind of wise-guy college hmnor. Under criticism for irreverently grading 265 campuses, the newspaper has withdr'awn its name from future editions of what was The New York Times Selective Guide to Colleges and Universites, and has offered to meet with aggrieved administrators to correct factual errors in the book. The Times, however, is not the only would-be guide to colleges to take its lumps recently .for poking fun at bad cafeteria food, duU com- munities and rah-rah cam- puses. Even Yale's irreverent Insider's Guide to tbe Colleges, a ten-year-old veteran of the wisecrack rating genre, is thinking about getting a little more serious. . The reason, says one editor, is that the jokes' targets are too worried about survival to do CROSSWORD PUZZLE 29 Throb 30 Ancient char- iot 32 Bulgarian coin 33 Land measure 35 Liquid measure 39 French article 40 Greek letter 41 Above 44 Peer Gynt's mother 46 Girl's name 48 Eons 49 Torrid 50 Native metal 51 Hurried 52 Obscure 54 Mild expletive 55 Be in debt 56 Recent 59 Cooled lava .Puzzle answer on next page much laughing. \I think universities are more sensitive to criticism, espeei~lly with the enrollment picture the way it is now,'' says Charles Straughn, editor of Lovejoy's Guide to Colleges and Universities, a traditionally objective, comprehensive study of 3500 colleges published an- nually since 1945. The Times did apparently leave itself wide open for criticisms from administrators who complained the book was Uttle more than a \restaurant guide approach\ riddled with factual errors and unfair, superficial judgments. What hurst most, many say, is that even though the tone is consciously irreverent, The Times' lofty status gives the book a certain aura of ob- jectivity. \You just expect more from the New York Times,\ says Koy Floyd, university relations director at the University of Tulsa. \They said, in effect: 'If ou want to have a good time, go to Tulsa, but if you want an education, go elsewhere .. \' \It's a very serious matter for us. Here they are trying to rate an entire academic program, and they use a .sarcastic, flip- pant attitude.\ Floyd was upset enough to fly to New York personally to confront book and Times education editor Edward B. Fiske with factual errors in the Tulsa section. Among the other schools to object to their evaluations in the book were Union College, Kentucky, Colby College, Rhode Island, Dartmouth, Baylor, Syracuse, Bard College, Car- negie-Mellon, Rochester and Auburn. \If you notice, most of the criticism has come from second-and third-ranked private colleges,'' Fiske says. ''All of the objective criticism- in the ChristianScience Monitor and the Wall Street Journal-has been positive. Most of the critical mail has come from schools in very competitive markets.'' Fiske concedes ''in a ,project as complex as this there will be some factual errors,\ and is ready to correct them. He defends the book's light tone by saying, \V(e tried to say, 'What questions would a student .ask when he Is looking at univer- sities?' and answer tern. The bulk of the book is what students said about their campuses.\ He says the Times is with- drawing its name from the book--which was and will continue to be published by Times Books--because ''the book wasn't written like a newspaper. Some people might say the food at Dartmouth is ·terrible. Some might say it's good. It's not the way it would be written in a newspaper.\ Fiske has no plans to drop any schools from later editions, and sales of his book have soared w.ith the controversy. The Times brought the book out in January, and quickly sold out all 16,000 copies. A second order of 30,000 also sold out, and the third run, coming out in April, already has a heavy pre-sale. Lovejoy's Straughn ponders the sales with amused envy. \They're going to outsell us. All this publicity is like being banned in Boston.\ Wood Wins Watson- (CNB)-TamaJ;\a M. Wood of Dryden, N.Y., a senior at Union College, Schenectady, has been awarded a 1982 Thomas J. Watson Fellowship to study cultural and economic factors influencing engineering career choices. She will conduct her research in Spain and Colonbia. A 1978 graduate of Whitney Point Central School, Wood is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Gary L Wood of 2630 Sugarbush Lane. She is mechanical . engineering major at Union. The Thomas J. Watson. Fellowship program is a national competition which supports independent study and travel abroad for recent college . graduates. The program is administered in cooperation with 50 small, private colleges and universities throughout the United States. This year, the· Watson Foundation awarded 70 ~ellowships nationwide. Soviet Bugs? (CPS)--Calling charges by Soviet intelligence \a bunch of hogwash,\ University of Maryland officials are denying that the university's research laboratory in Pakistan was the site of biological warfare ex- periments for the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). A recent issue of the Soviet magazine \Literary Gazette\ reported the research lab was breeding \killer mosquitoes\ to carry disease to the nearby Soviet-bloc country of Afghanistan. The article charged the CIA-funded ex- periment used radiation and genetic engineering to breed the insects, which would then be ' used to spread yellow fever and , other diseases among the Afghan population. The Campus Store Presents: \It's just more Russian propoganda,\ say~ ·John Dennis, vice chancellor of health affairs for the university, \We do have a medical research lab in Pakistan. And sure we've done some mosquito research, but strictly for the purpose of malaria control.\ Dennis says the lab uses radiation and genetic engineering to breed sterile male mosquitoes, which are then released to mate with females. Since the females mate. only once,. according to Dennis, the sterile males should help in controlling the mosquito population in Pakistan. PEANUTS@ .by Charles M. Schulz They could never agree on anything. \Why don't we truck on down to the bike shop?\ she asked. \No he said.~'Let's bike on down to the truck shop.\ Their marriage counselor was not at a11 encouraging. ' .. \BlJ.t it has nothing to do with sending mosquitoes into Afghanistan,'' Dennis contends. \None of the research· in any way affects the lives of the Pakistanis.'' The CIA is calling the charges ''ridiculous,\ and enies ·any involvement with the research lab in Pakistan.

and >f the from .nked says. [!ism .... onitor tl-has f the from ~titive roject vill be nd is 1 •. He me by 'What tt ask niver- . The tdents !S,\ with- l the will ~d by ''the ke a might 1th is y it's would 1pany s, and oared The out in .d out order td the April, ~sale. 'nders envy. ts. All being ion. atson. is a iVhich 'Y and ollege . m is ·ation lleges ut the •, the led 70 of rticle l ex- 1 and edthe ~n be· ~rand : the .ssian John Jr of !fSity, ~dical . And 9quito 1r the 1trol.\ uses metic ;terile 1 are with nales ng to 1hould squito o with into tends. n any tf the targes ~ ·any ~earch OONOORDIENSIS, April 8,. 198! Page 11 Sixties Have Major Influence On Campus (CPS)-It will be a long time before Rutgers University historian Warren Susman forgets an awful night ·· in December, 1980. It was the night John Lennon was killed. \By the next morning,\ he recalls, \there wasn't a· blank wan left on campus. Someone had gone around and written 'Lennon Lives' on every building.\ \It is the first thing I've seen that actually moved this generation, and brought them together. There were genuine tears. They couldn't hold back their emotions.'' Susman,. like many others, wondered why. The Beatles,. a product of a different era, had split up in 1970, when most of the students now on campuses were small childr~n. Susman won• dered if the explanation wasn't that students of today were growing up without a culture of their own. They \just don't have the heroes that the students of the sixties did. They lack that charismatic relationship with leaders that students used to have.\ The professorial buzzwords for the phenomenon seem to be \sixties envy.'' Many radio stations play only music • recorded tenmto-15 years ago instead of New Wave, punk or other, more modern musical trends. A scanning of college newspapers nationwide shows a continuing tendency of students to compare themselves and their conceL\ns to those of tbe protest deacde. \I've had students say to me that they resent the way sixties ·music gets more airplay than their OW!l music,\ says Clayborne Carson, a historian at Stanford. George Ward, a. professor. at Bowling GL\een State Univer-: sity's Center for the Study of Popular Culture, feels sorry for today's students. ''Throughout the seventies, they expressed the feeling that 'We missed the big one, we missed the great decade. We had disco and ·the Me Generation. What a bore.\' But though the influence· of the 1960s continues to be strong, Ward 'Says there is evidence of what might be called an original \eighties culture.'' \New Wave ~nd punk are real, and ·came out of the seventies,'' he says. ''It was a reaction to the over· commercialization of rock. Punk is taking the music back ·to the garage band to ,captre its vitality.\ \The difference is that its Influence is so much smaller than that of tile popular music of the sixties. It's a much smaller groupofpeople than the hippie thing.\ Ward contends, ''There is and was a· real punk scene in New York, Los Angeles and, for a time, Austin {Texas). The Austin punk scene was very, very big in tb.e mid-seventies, but the media didn't pay any attention to it because of Willie Nelson and the progressive colllltry movement. But both were going em at the same time.\ Ward says the preppy fad_ _is also indigenous to the eighties. \Itis very big, and has moved all the way down to the junior high level Kids want $35 L .. Bean Shirts. It's a dominant scene on campus, but it sh()uldn't be misunderstood. It's · said that this is a lot more conservative generation and a flashback to tbe 1ifties. That's an oversimplification. A lot of the students who dress preppy still take drugs and have very different sexual attitudes from that of the 1950s. 'The stereotype is just too easy.\ Most observers agree that the one. sixties phenomenon that's been absolutely banished from campus today is the nippie lifestyle. Jack Nachbar, a colleague of Ward's at Bowling Green, notes, \Today's students really can't figure hippies out. They ask, 'Why would people want to Biology Formaldehyde: Pic-kled Students (CPS)--Biology lab, ac- cording to the Consumer Product Safety Commission·, may be· hazardous to your health. The commission, in a new report, says formaldehyde levels in 26 high school and college biology labs it surveyed were high enough ''to cause adverse health effects\ on the students and faculty mem!Jers who work .in the labs. fects, and may be at a higher risk of developing cancer from eJq>osure to f'Ormaldehyde.\ The commission says it will n()W work with science teachers and lab tecbnicians to form ,guidelines for keeping ven- tilation adequate and even . lessening the amount of for- maldehyde use to preserve lab specimens. dress funny like that, with their unkempt hair?' It just doesn't make sense to them.\ In, his class Nachbar plays the album from the WoodStock music festival in 1969. When he comes to ''that part where Country Joe (McDonald) says, 'Sing louder. How are we going to stop this war if you don't sing any louder than that?' they all laugh and say, 'Singing won't stop the war.\' \They just can't understand that childlike mentality,'' Nachbar believes. Morris Dickstein, author of Gates of EdeJJ., a study of American culture in the 1960s and an English professor at Queens Collge in New York, agrees. \Students today certainly have a culture of their own. Tile 1960s aren't holding them down. It's just that when you have such a surge of original ex- pression as you had in the sixties, the culture just can't sustain it that long. The time right now doesn't have the path- breaking sense that the sixties did, hut it's a time that assimilates what has already been done, and makes something new out of it.\ Pot Use Drops (CPS)--Despi:te growing flirtations with amphetamines and methaqualones, the high school seniors of 1981 generally used illicit drugs less frequently than their predecessors, ac- cording to a new report on drug use from. the University of Michigan . The report, co-sponsored by the National Institute on Drug Abuse, found that a smaller percentage of the high school class.of 1981-this year's college freshmen--admitted to using marijuana, PCP, tranquilizers or nitrite inhalants than the clas~ of 1980. Lloyd Johnston, one o the . Michigan social psychologists who administered the drug use survey, noted that \daily marijuana use has dl1opped by about one-third since 1978, when we found that 11 percent of the seniors we questioned smoked it daily.\ Cocaine, heroin, LSD and barbituate use have remained .\fairly stable\ since 1979, Johnston adds. About a third ·Of the seniors said they had used am- phetamines, up from about 26 percent in the 1980 sruvey. .PLO Problem (CPS)-·A University of Arizona student says a campus Jewish group has publi-cly misrepresented her as a member of. the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO}, and may sue the group. Deana Castillo has already filed a formal complaint with the dean of students. about a Jewish Defense League (JDL) \Hate on Exhibit\ display at the student union. ·The displ&y includes photographs depicting \PLO activity on the U. of A. campus\ at a .September PLO rally. Castillo is in one of the photos. Castillo insists she is ''in no way involved in the PLO,\ and fears what will happen if others believe she is. \I'm a Hispanic,\ she says. \I work in a public place, and I come across a lot of people. I'm mad.\ Castillo first learned about the picture when she was sitting in the cafeteria and \people told me my picture was on display upstairs.\ After notifying the dean of students and the JDL, Castillo asked to have the picture removed, but exhibit attendant David Makowsky, a UA sophomore, refused. \The picture was accurate,\ asserts Ed Tennen, the JDL's regional director. Tennen says the photo display was ''to show there was an active PLO cell\ at the university. \She ( Castilo) was caught dead right in the activity. Even if she is not a member, she is a sympathizer with the PLO.\ \I do support the Palestinian cause,\ Castillo explains, but points out there is a big di.f- ference between being a sup- porter of a cause and a member of an organization. Although the exhibit lasted only for two days, Castillo has filed a complaint against the JDL and is considering further legal action. Meanwhile, the university has launched an investigation of the matter. \Nothing has happened yet,\ explains RobertS. Svob, dean of students. \She has filed a complaint, and we have advised the young lady to get an at- torney to see if her rights have been violated.'' This Summer, ComeR What better place to be than far above Cayuga's waters as you improve your writing skills. work with computers. participate in a pre-law pro- gram. or take a course in conceptual drawing? Nowhere else can you learn in the co.mpan.y of so diverse a group of faculty and students in such a uniquely attractive setting of hills. lakes. gorges and waterfalls. At Cornell. you can fulfill requirements. ac· celerate your degree program. or simply take advantage of the opportl:mity to study those in· triguing subjects that you have always put off. Request an Amtouttcemettt and see for yourself all the reasons why Cornell is the place you should be this summer. Tuition is $14 5 per semester credit or less. Cornell University Summer Session. 813 lves Hall. Ithaca. New York 148 53 \Students the reporrts adds, \because of their age and stage of development, may be more sensitive than the general population to the irritant, allergic and sensitization ef- The Campus_ Store Pr~sents: Puzzle Answer PEANUTS@ by Charles M·. Schulz IF ANYONE CALLS, l'Lt .£;!:. IN MY BEAN SAG SULKING! TELEPHONE? FO~ ME?

Page 12 What's Happening Tuesday ~prO 13 Coffeellouse-8 p.m. in the Cabaret Room performing-- Betsy Rose and Kathy Winter sponsored by the Women's Network for Women's Week. Thursday Aprll 14 Cabaret sponsored by the Women's Network s·and 11 p.m. in the Cabaret Room. Friday .Aprlll6 Performance by Mass Transit, a theatre group in Memorial Chapel, sponsored by Women's Network at 8 p;m. Friday A.pril9 \The Goodbye.Girl\-11 p.m.- -88016. Museum College Concert 8 p.m. ill Memorial Chapel performing--Phillip Jones Brass Ensemble-$4.00. ·Saturday ao.d Sunday Aprn 141and 11 OONCORDIENSIS, April 8, 198S • Ices lit I JIM/ e .... ·····e··\c.····\····· . . . ·r: ·.·· .. ·.·· .. ·:\:.··· ..... ·· .. ,, ·.·· .. ·· .. . · ... :l!l <Q Mon., April12- BASIC INTERVIEWING TECHNIQUES \The Goodbye Girl\ -9 and 11 '!!!!IMIW.tl' p.m. Designed to provide an introduction to interviewing-interview preparation, what to expect from interviewers, tips on how to present oneself, interview follow-up. 7-9 p.m. Strauss Lounge. Monday .April 12 Interviewing Workshop sponsored by the Career Center, 7-9 p.m. in Stranss Lounge. Spanish Film sponsored by Modern Languages Dept. at 7:30 in SS016. Tuesday Aprn 13 Speaker on Assertiveness, 12:30-1:30 in Strauss. Reswne Writing workshop, 7- 9 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. \Dr. No\ 10 and 12 p.m. in SS016. Wednesday AprH 14 Women in Fihns Series,_\My Brilliant Career\ 7: 30 in SS016. Tues., April13- RESUME WRITING Basic how-to's, components of a reswne, what makes the difference between an effective and an ineffective resume, ~ips on printing. 7-9 p.m. Strauss Lounge. Thurs., April 15- CAREER OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOMEN Sponsored in conjlUlction with The Women's Network for Women's Week Professionals JVill discuss how to find and maintain a satisfying career, paths they have taken to obtain their position( s) , obstacles they had to overcome, and realistic tips a bout the work world. The second half of the workshop will deaL with summer job search strategies. 4 p.m. Cabaret Room. Thurs., April 15- CAN LIBERAL ARTS MAJORS GET JOBS TOO? Alwnni and faculty will discuss the liberal arts major in today's world and the job op- • portunities available. For more in-depth inforrnaticm regarding a particular profession, small groups will be formed for discussion of careers in Public Mfairs, Publishing-Public Relations, and the Private Secctor. Sessions will also be held on job hunting in various geographic areas, and on the first steps after graduation. 7-10 p.m. HlUllanities 115. Please sign up for all workshops IN ADVANCE at the Career Center The career of the 80's!· It begins with our second degree. D Economic security. D Upw~rd mobility. Today's changing health care We of.fer a special second degree Hale House will be closed l field provides exgiting career op· program that credits your pre· Iions, mobility and economic se- sent degree toward the BSN. c.:urity. There is a growing de· Electives are waived. Scheduling . . Frid1y, April 1 0 and Saturday, April 11 (because of the holidays). Due to limited weekend participation the possibility of closing Hale on weekends for ALL meals is being considered. Please let ·your manager know if you plan to patronize Hale on weekends this t·erm. mand for men and women with is flexible. ·Financial aid is the bachelor of science in nurs· available. You can submatricu- ing degree. Most graduates earr~ late Into one of our 14 master's starting salaries of $18;000 to programs while completing your $21,000 at the Hospital of the Uni· underg radLJate studies. versity of Pennsylvania and other leat:ling institutions. D Career options. • Consulting to industry . and health care organizations • Medical and nursing publications • Direct patient care • Public health law •Independent practice • Administration and education D Be a leader. This is the career of the 80's. It's specialized and it's varied. A BSN from a leading Ivy League univer· · sity will start you on your way in a · profession that will grow and ex- pand in the years to come. 0 I'd like more information. I ~~ I Address ----------------- 1 City,State,Zip I· Director of Admissions I School of Nursing I University of Pennsylvania . Nursing Education Building ~ Philadelphia, PA 19104 .I L \llt _. ;rf' (215) 243-4271-- •• .. . . .. ~ ~ . \\':_ u .., • '\ o~. '-'-\'\ ..io· Q .. ~\\\'·e .. _/1 OQ fbe Greek frc~Jt DU's 50's P,arty Come to Delta Upsilon's 54th Annual 50's party on Friday, April 23. There will be a live D.J., beer, wine, punch and door prizes for best outfits. Chi Psi Beer Rally This Tuesday, April 13th, will mark the 9th Annual Chi Psi Schenectady-TOGA BEER- RALLY. Once again this year we emphasize the fact that the ev,ent is only a rally and no awards are given for the fastest time. The awards are for those times which come closest to that exact time which is achieved when driving the speed limit and hustling on chugs. The driver must not drink and must observe all speed limits! There is no reason to cause ·any loss or . damage to our community by thoughtless speeding. The Beer Rally is a ·very fun affair at reasonable Sl)eeds which insure the safety of all on the road. We urge you to enter the Beer Rally and enjoy the evening but please do not drive fast. Welco.me Back! Don't forget , . • Personal forms are available for .25 at the box office! FOR SALE: Stereo -System JVC receiver (JRS401) Technics tape deck ( RSM44) Technics turntable (SLB2) & Cartridge EPI180speake.rs (2) Asking $900.00 Contact Sue Tel. 377-0049

Page 12 b • ' . . ' \-'- Jo · IJ .,--..._ r'\ f.\'\ \l ' What's Happening Tuesday April 13 Coffeehouse-8 p.m. in the Cabaret Room performing-- Betsy Rose and Kathy Winter sponsored by the Women's Network for Women's Week. Thursday AprU 14 Cabaret sponsored by the Women's Network 9 and 11 p.m. in the Cabaret Room. Friday Aprll 16 Performance by Mass Transit, a theatre group in Memorial Chapel, sponsored by Women's Network at 8 p.m. Friday Aprll9 \The Goodbye Girl\-11 p.m.- -88016. . Museum College Concert 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel performing--Phillip Jones Brass Ensemble-$4.00. Saturday and Sunday April 10 and 11 Monday April 12 Interviewing Workshop SP<Jnsored by the Career Center, 7-9 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Spanish Film sponsored by Modern Languages Dept. at 7:30 in SS016. Tuesday April13 Speaker on Assertiveness, 12:30-1:30 in Strauss. Resume Writing workshop, 7- 9 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. \Dr. No\ 10 and 12 p.m. in SS016. Wednesday April 14 Women in Films Series,~'' My Brilliant Career\ 7:30 in SS016. CONCORDIENSIS, A.pril 8, 198! • Ices ,. · only for starters. Now you know the value of Love, Sweet Cheeks study! Wait 'til next week! Nance, A bet's a bet. Land K, Penguin Delta love, the Sisters · Wags-you are the best thing that has ever happened to me at Union. I am so glad that I met yo11. I hop~ that our close relationship continues and develops into sometbing per· manent. Love always~ JACK. 316D-Hi you guys. I love and miss you very much. Remember, you can visit me too. Love and xxu!s~ S . Joyce, Mares. Laurie, Pam, Amy. and Jen-Let's g<J to the · Windjammer, grab a bite to eat at Subways and head for Penrodsl R--It was a great week: We'll .have to do it again some time wben she's away. Love. your _ new roommate Very Messy Girls-Get • psycb~d f(lr beer raDyl Dear Trouble: If you don't get a brush that you like, I'U run my fingers through your bair anyway that ynu :want. That'a To all the Hitters of the house: COOL ITt!! We don't .need the aggravatiun so soon. Thanks a lot. SUE--WHAT WAS THAT? YOU DIDN'T KNOW WHEEE HIS HEAD WJ\S? Hmm . . . OKAY-GUESS WHO Dear Snowbank lover; Look what happened. Lots of SNOW. Are you ready? It:s up to you. Your the first choice. DONtT waste the opportunity. . -Pleasantly Dilluted Lyriii·-MMMMMMMMAC-- AROONS! And for all of the . SHICKSAS. (like yoo, S . .A.W.), have a nice seder. GOOL DUCK everyone! See you on Sunday. A bientQt, 1()..(1 Tb~ fotlowJng peuonab~ arrived froon Greeee a bit ioQ late to be included ia full fa tb.e last Issue of wbl~r term. We would like to apologize to. those students involved,. and eon'! sequently would like to make amends by printing the pe.r~ souals ·in this issue. La.ur, Saved lots of B\({mpp Bw dump for you. Be prepared; Love you. Kristos Anybody remember the Huntsman'? I do, A regular. To Karla-Have a hose for me when I get back. Good day, John. To ZBT and Btnts-Are you illiteraoo? To all my pals at Ri<lhmllnd, vvhotn I tolss-we stwUI see spring term-The hosed one. Ed A.-You're a fag. Your roomie (I should know), ' . Steve, Slab,·· and Bob T.- .. Prepare-· -the clique for ·my · return. Myron. J.o ..•• trhe Phi Omegans are coming.! Love. Rorer B • .V.-LQ.ve you, miss you and will soon be there to massage your every knot.-Mr. P. Mon., April12 ·BASIC INTERVIEWING TECHNIQUES Designed to provide an introduction to interviewing-interview preparation, what to expect from interviewers, tips on how to present oneself, interview follow-up. 7-9 p.m. Strauss Lounge. Tues., April13 m RESUME WRITING Basic how-to's, components of a resume, what makes the difference between an effective and an ineffective reswne, Vps on printing. 7-9 p.m. Strauss Lounge. Thurs., Aprill5- CAREER OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOMEN Sponsored in conjunction with The Women's Network for Women's Week Professionals _will discuss how to find and maintain a satisfying career, paths they have taken to obtain their position (s), obstacles they had to overcome, and realistic tips about the work world. The second half of the workshop will deal with summer job search strategies. 4 p.m. Cabaret Room. Thurs., Aprillii -CAN LffiERAL ARTS MAJORS GET JOBS TOO? Alumni and faculty will discuss the liberal arts major in today's world and the job op- . portunities available. For more in-depth information regarding a particular profession, small groups will be formed for discussion of careers in Public Affairs, Publishing-Public Relations, and the Private Secctor. Sessions will also be held on job hunting in various geographic areas, and on the first steps after graduation. 7-10 p.m. HUJ);lanities 115. Please sign up for all workshops IN ADVANCE at the Career Center The career of the 80's! It begins with our second degree. D Economic security. D Upward mobility. Today's changing health care We offer a special second degree Hale House will be closed Friday, April 10 and Saturday, April 11 (because of the holidays) .. field provides exciting career op· program that credits your pre· tions, mobility and economic se- sent degree toward the BSN. curity. There is a growing de· Electives are waived. Scheduling mand for men and women with is flexible. Financial aid is the bachelor of science in nurs· available. You can submatricu- ing degree. Most graduates earn late into one of our 14 master's starting salaries of $18,000 to programs while completing your $21,000 at the Hospital of the Uni· undergraduate studies. versity of Pennsylvania and other leading institutions. Due to limited weekend participation the possibility of closing Hale on weekends for ALL meals is IJeing considered. Please let ·your manager know if you plan to patronize Hale on weekends this term. D Career options. • Consulting to industry and health care organizations •Medical and nursing publications • Direct patient care • Public health law •I ndependent practice • Administration and education D Be a leader. This is the career of the 80's. It's specialized and it's varied. A BSN from a leading Ivy League univer· sitywill start you on your way in a profession that will grow and ex- pand in the years to come. D I'd like more information. I Name I Address ----------------- 1 City, State, Zip I Director of Admissions I School of Nursing I University of Pennsylvania Nursing Education Building A Philadelphia, PA 19104 J L .. ~ ... il\ (215) 243-4271·--- . \'-\ ~ t• \ L' , . ', ·Jj' : ~·· \ ,. ... ~ lo 0~ Tbe Greek froqt DU's 50's Party Come to Delta Upsilon's 54th Annual 50's party on Friday, April 23. There will be a live D.J., beer, wine, punch and door prizes for best outfits. Chi Psi Beer Rally This Tuesday, April 13th, will mark the 9th Annual Chi Psi Schenectady-TOGA BEER- RALLY. Once again this year we emphasize the fact that the ev.ent is only a rally and no awards are given for the fastest time. The awards are for those times which come closest to that exact time which is achieved when driving the speed limit and hustling on chugs. The driver must not drink and must observe all speed limits! There is no reason to cause · any loss or damage to our community by thoughtless speeding. The Beer Rally is a very fun affair at reasonable speeds which insure the safety of all on the road. We urge you to enter the Beer Rally and enjoy the evening but please do not drive fast. Welcome Back! Don't forget ••• Personal forms are available for .25 at the box office! FOR SALE: Stereo -System JVC receiver (JRS 401) Technics tape deck ( RSM 44) Technics turntable (S LB 2) & Cartridge EPI 180speakers (2) Asking $900.00 Contact Sue Tel. 377-0049

) th y, re ld ill si i- lf 1e lO st ~e to is 1e m ot lll ;e lf ;s a le ty :lf llt n CONOORD.IENSIS, .April 8, 198$ Page 13 e Ices General Nottices suJIUJier sublet wanted near campus. Looking for two rooms with totally furnished apart~ ment, including kitchen set~up. Would pr'efer to settle as soon as possible. Will sublet from graduation until the beginning of September. Please contact Rachel at Box. 2202 if interested. Administrative' and Eng in e·ering Systems Colloquium presents Mr. Wallace M. Campbell, President; Schenectady Savings Bank speaking on ''Savings Banks · and Thrist Organizations: A . dying Industry or are they?\ The date is April 8, 1982-3:45 in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. Faculty, students, and tbe interested public are invited. There are still a few openings in the Summer Study of Socialized Medicine program. H you think you might be in- terested in this term abroad which examines Socialized Medicine in the United States, England and Sweden, please come to the Terms Abroad office in UU 211 and talk to Professor Thomas or Joan Freeman. The program.is being organized now so if you are interested, hurry. Applications are being ac- cepted until May 1 for the winter, 1983 Terms Abroad. There will be a term in Athens, Greece, for which thete is a prerequisite in Classics 21 or 24. There will be a program on a kibbutz in Israel of which the prerequisite is Hebrew 10 and the third possibility for a term abroad in winter will be in Bogota, Colombia. The program will focus on the problems of third world countries and requires a prerequisite in Spanish. Applications and information are available in the Terms Abroad office,. HU 211. Rename the Cabaret Room and win lunch for two at Fireside. Submit ideas to Mrs. Marra in Student Activities by April 22. A committee has been formed for the purpose of a third year review of Martha Huggins, • Assistant Professor of Sociology. An.yone interested in contributing to this review may contact Professor Weiner (Sociology), Professo.r Schneller (lAM), or Professor Hansen (History). . Prof. Peak to Deliver · Sigma Xi Spring Lecture Prof. David Peak of the Department of Physies will deliver the first lecture in the Sigma Xi Spring Lecture series on Tuesday, April 13, at 4:30 p.m. in Bailey Hall, Room 207. His subject will be \What's New With Reactions in Solution?\ Refreshments will be served at 4:00 p.m. before the lecture and all interested. students and facu1ty are cordially invited. FOR SALE: Small wooden dresser. Will fit under wall- mounted -bed in suites. Dimensions: 2~ foot x 3 foot x: 1.2 foot (hxJxw). Call' 37()..6902. SUMMER SUBLETTERS WANTED for a furnished 2 .. bedroom apartment on Foster Ave. Rent plus utilities, rent negotiable. Call Bob or Rich at· 6974. \Soc.obiology Colloquium is pleased to announce a talk by E.O. Wilson of Harvard at 3:15 Thursday, April15 in SS15 on his 011 fbe OtQer fro11t Phonathon \The 10th Annual Student Phonathon will be held on May 3-6. Prizes will be awarded and refreshments will be served. See y()ur RA or Fraternity .or Sorority President or call the Annual fund Office (6174) for details.\ Attention all Big Brothers-Big Sisters Big Brothers-Big Sisters is sponsoring a trip to Riverside Amusement Park for Union Big Brothers-Big Sisters and their littles. DATE: Saturday, May 1 For more information check your mailbox or pick up an information form at the Student Activities Box Office. Biology Club Biology Majors and Biology club members. There will be an important meeting on April 15 at 4:30 in the Alps. Biology Club elections will be held and curriculum changes will be discussed. Nominations for President, treas11rer, and secretary Will be accepted by Dr. Butterstein until April 14. Biology Club Biology Department-Seminar on Friday April 9, 1982 at 4:30 p.m. in B.H. 207. - Lecture on Why is the eat's eye like the Alaskan pipeline? (Rhodopsin kinetics in the cat retina), by Dr. Letharn Mehaffey,- Department of Biology, Vassar College. Refreshments at 4:00p.m. Women's Lunctlme Colloquium The Women's lunchtime collou.ium Series presents Mary DeSantis speaking about \Assertiveness: The Direct Route to Success\ on Tuesday April13 from 12:3~1:30. It will be held in Strauss Lounge in Carnegie Hall and is sponsored by the President's Commission on the Status of Women at Union College. Bring luncn. Coffee and tea provided. The ARMY ROTC Representative will be on campus in Carnegie Hall on Aprill4, 1982 from 9 a.m.-3 p.m. Dept. of Army will observe Wednesday, May 12 from .9 a.m.-3 p.m. at Watervliet as Armed Forces Day. If you are interested in attending, please sign up in the Placement Office. ' ENGINEER TOPOGRAPHIC LABORATORIES (Dept. of the Army), Fort Belvoir, Virginia. We have literature available in Placement for those who are interested in· em- ployment ( directhire opportunities and a cooperative education program). Union College Film Committee & Women 1 s Network Present My Brilliant Career Wed., April 14 at 7:30 FREE! current worlt in Gene-Culture Coevolution. ''Nt)feover, Dr. Arthur Caplan ·Of U1e :Hastings Center will talk at 3:15 Friday .in SS15 on issues relating to Wilson's work and other sociobiologists. \Dr. Wilson and Dr. Caplan will debate sociobiology on Friday, April Hi at 7 :30 p.m. in SS016. \All interested individuals · are cordially ·invited to attend.\ SUMMER JOBS! SUMMER J6BS·! Union College's Academic Op~rtunity Program ( AOP) neeos 3 peer tutor-counselors for its 1982 Swnmer Program starting June~ through August 18, 1982 at Skidmore College, Sarat()ga Sprillgs, New York. A)lplicati~ns now available and interviews being arranged in tile AOP office, Bailey Hall. FCJr more inf()rmation contact Maxine :Me adows-Shuford, Director; ar Patrice Bradley, Asst. Director at 37()..6115. Applicati()n Deadline: April 15, 1982. \CPR CoW'Se\ offered 3-2 hour classes, starting Wednesday~ AJ>ril 21st, 7-9 p.m. Cost-$3.00 (price of book). Book mru~t be read prior to class. For more· infonnation call Health Service 6120. Class limited. Ple~se .sign up early. .. . . ' I . \. <I \ 0 ~\\.jo o~........,__\'~·'\oQ' Interested In a career in journalism or broadcasting? The Financial Aid Office has information about a merit- based scholarship (financial need is not a consideration), the Poynter Fund, that links the academic study of political science with the practice of journalism. Awards of up to $2000 will be made to in- dividuals. For applications, see the Financial Aid Office. Deadline is July 1, 1982. The Union College Staff Association will hold a -USED BOOK SALE Tuesday, Aprill3, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the lobby of Carnegie Hall. Proceeds of the sale will go to the Student Book Fund which gives financial aid to students for the .purchase of textbooks. Book donations from members of the campus community are urgently needed and can be brought to the lobby of Lamont House or the Government Documents office in Schaffer Library from April 1-12. For more information, contact Jill Titus, Schaffer Library. The Department of English invites the submission of en- tries in the following writing competitions. The deadline for submissi()n is FRIDAY, APRIL 9. 'rHE ALLEN ESSAY PRIZE: awarded to seniors in any department for non-fiction essays. The writing may be a chapter from a thesis, a revised term paper, &1 essay written specifically for submission, etc. No limits of length are specified, but custom suggests a lower limit of 6-8 pages, and an upper limit of perhaps 30. TilE VAN ORDEN PRIZE: for freshmen (in any depart .. me~t) ex<:eUing in English composition. THE YUDIS PRIZE: for the student in any class who has produc~d the best piece of prose fiction. The Department also supervises and judges entries for the ACADEMY OF AMERICAN POETS PRIZE, awarded an- nually for the best poem by a Union undergraduate. Each prize entry should be labeled with a pseudonym on ooth the paper and an attached sealed envelope; inside the envelope should be the student's real name and address. All (}f this should be placed in a large manila envelope marked with the name of the competition for which it is being su~ mittede 'f\le envelope should be delivered to the Department ~ffice in Humanities 212 no later than Friday, April 9. Any questi()ns about these competitions should be directed to Professor Wineapple in the Humanities Building (telephone &210). Union College F.ilm Committee Presents Neil Simon's Tile Goodbye Girl Friday, April9atll:OO Sat. &Sun., AprillO& 11 at 9: 00 and 11 : 00 FREEl Don it- Miss 007 in Dr.· No • • • Tuesday, Apri I 13 at 10: oo & 12: oo $1.00'

~: .. h r' e d 11 d I ,. . r e 0 ;t e 0 s e n •t 11 e if s a e y OONOORDIENSIS, April 8, 198! Page 13 e Ices General Nottices Summer sublet wanted near campus. Looking for two rooms with totally furnished apart~ ment, including kitchen set-up. Would prefer to settle as soon as possible. Will sublet from graduation until the beginning of September. Please contact Rachel at Box 2202 if interested. Administrative and Engineering Systems Colloquium presents Mr. Wallace M. Campbell, President, Schenectady Savings Bank speaking on \Savings Banks and Thrist Organizations: A dying Industry or are they?\ The date is April 8, 1982-3:45 in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. Faculty, students, and the interested public are invited. There are still a few openings in the Summer Study of Socialized Medicine program. If you think you might be in- terested in this term abroad which examines Socialized Medicine in the United States, England and Sweden, please come to the Terms Abroad office in HU 211 and talk to Professor Thomas or Joan Freeman. The program is being organized now so if you are interested, hurry. Applications are being ac- cepted until May 1 for the winter, 1983 Terms Abroad. There will be a term in Athens, Greece, for which there is a prerequisite in Classics 21 or 24. There wiH be a program on a kibbutz in Israel of which the prerequisite is Hebrew 10 and the third possibility for a term abroad in winter will be in Bogota, Colombia. The program will focus on the problems of third world countries and requires a prerequisite in Spanish. Applications and information are available in the Terms Abroad office, HU 211. Rename the Cabaret Room and win lunch for two at Fireside. Submit ideas to Mrs. Marra in Student Activities by April 22. A committee has been formed for the purpose of a third year review of Martha Huggins, . Assistant Professor of Saciology. Anyone interested in contributing to this review may contact Professor Weiner (Sociology), Professor Schneller (lAM), or Professor Hat,1sen (History) . Prof. Peak to Deliver Sigma Xi Spring Lecture Prof. David Peak of the Department of Physics will deliver the first lecture in the Sigma Xi Spring Lecture Series on Tuesday, April 13, at 4:30 p.m. in Bai;Iey Hall, Room 207. His subject will be \What's New with Reactions in Solution?\ Refreshments will be served at 4:00 p.m. before the lecture and all interested students and faculty are cordially invited. FOR SALE: Small wooden dresser. Will fit under wall- mounted bed in suites. Dimensions: 2¥.! foot x 3 foot x: 1.2 foot (hxlxw). Call 370-6902. SUMMER SUBLETTERS WANTED for a furnished 2- bedroom apartment on Foster Ave. Rent plus utilities, rent negotiable. Call Bob or Rich at 6974. \Sociobiology Collequium is pleased to announce a talk by E.O. Wilson of Harvard at 3:15 Thursday, Apri115 in SS15 on his 011 Tile Ottrer fro11t Phonathon \The lOth Annual Student Phonathon will be held on May 3-6. Prizes will be awarded and refreshments will be served. See your RA or Fraternity or Sorority President or call the Annual fund Office (6174) for details.\ Attention all Big Brothers-Big Sisters Big Brothers-Big Sisters is sponsoring a trip to Riverside Amusement Park for Union Big Brothers-Big Sisters and their littles. DATE: Saturday, May 1 For more information check your mailbox or pick up an information form at the Student Activities Box Office. Biology Club Biology Majors and Biology club members. There will be an important meeting on April 15 at 4: 30 in the Alps. Biology Club elections will be held and curriculum changes will be discussed. Nominations for President, treasurer, and secretary will be accepted by Dr. Butterstein until April 14. Biology Club Biology Department-Seminar on Friday April 9, 1982 at 4:30 p.m. in B.H. 207. Lecture on Why is the eat's eye like the Alaskan pipeline? (Rhodopsin kinetics in the cat retina), by Dr. Let ham Mehaffey, Department of Biology, Vassar College. Refreshments at 4:00 p.m. Women's Lunctime Colloquium The Women's lunchtime collouiurn Series presents Mary DeSantis speaking about \Assertiveness: The Direct Route to Success\ on Tuesday Apri113 from 12:30-1:30. It will be held in Strauss Lounge in Carnegie Hall and is sponsored by the President's Commission on the Status of Women at Union College. Bring luncn. Coffee and tea provided. The ARMY ROTC Representative will be on campus in Carnegie Hall on April 14, 1982 from 9 a.m.-3 p.m. Dept. of Army will observe Wednesday, May 12 from 9 a.rn.-3 p.m. at Watervliet as Armed Forces Day.lfyou are interested in attending, please sign up in the Placement Office. ENGINEER TOPOGRAPHIC LABORATORIES (Dept. of the Army), Fort Belvoir, Virginia. We have literature available in Placement for those who are interested in em- ployment (direct hire opportunities and a cooperative education program). Union College Film Committee & Women 1 s Network Present My Brilliant Career Wed., April 14 at 7:30 FREE! current work in Gene-Culture Coevolution. \Moreover Dr. Arthur Caplan of the Hastings Center will talk at 3: 15 Friday in SS15 on issues relating to Wilson's work and other sociobiologists. \Dr. Wilson and Dr. Caplan will debate sociobiology on Friday, April16 at 7:30p.m. in SS016. \All interested individuals are cordially invited to attend.,, SUMMER JOBS! SUMMER JOBS! Union CoUege's Academic Opportunity Program (AOP) neeas 3 peer tutor-counselors for its 1982 Sununer Program starting June 28 through August 18, 1982 at Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs, New York. Applications now available and interviews being arranged in the AOP office, Bailey Hall. For more information contact Maxine Meadows-Shuford, Director; or Patrice Bradley, Asst. Director at 370-6115. Application Deadline: April 15, 1982. \CPR Course\ offered 3-2 hour classes, starting Wednesday, April 21st, 7·9 p.m. Cost-$3.00 (price of book). Book must be read prior to class. For more information call Health Service 6120. Class litnited. Please sign up early. Interested In a career in journalisnn or broadcasting? The Financial Aid Office has information about a merit- based scholarship (financial need is not a consideration), the Poynter Fund, that links the academic study of political science with the practice of journalism. Awards of up to $2000 will be made to in- dividuals. For applications, see the Financial Aid Office. Deadline is July 1, 1982. The Union College Staff Association will hold a USED BOOK SALE Tuesday, April13, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the lobby of Carnegie Hall . Proceeds of the sale will go to the Student Book Fund which gives financial aid to students for the purchase of textbooks. Book donations from members of the campus community are urgently needed and can be brought to the lobby of Lamont House or the Government Documents .office in Schaffer LiLI\'ary from April 1-12. For more information, contact Jill Titus, Schaffer Library. The Department of English invites the submission of en- tries in the following writing competitions. The deadline for submission is FRID\' Y, APRIL 9. THE ALLEN ESSAY' PRIZE: awarded to seniors in any department for non-fiction essays. The writing may be a chapter from a thesis, a revised term paper, an essay written specifically for submission, etc. No limits of length are specified, but custom suggests a lower limit of S~ pages, and an upper limit of perhaps 30. THE VAN ORDEN PRIZE : for freshmen (in any depart~ ment) excelling in English composition. THE YUDIS PRIZE: for the student in any class who has produced the best piece of prose fiction. The Department also supervises and judges entries for the ACADEMY OF AMERICAN POETS PRIZE, awarded an- nually for the best poem by a Union undergraduate. Each prize entry should be labeled with a pseudonym on both the paper and an attached sealed envelope; inside the envelope should be the student's real name and address. All of this should be placed in a large manila envelope marked with the name of the competition for which it is being sub- mitted. T}.le envelope should be delivered to the Department office in Humanities 212 no later than Friday, April 9. Any questions about these competitions should be directed to Professor Wineapple in the Humanities Building (telephone 6210). Union College Film Committee Presents Neil Simon's The Goodbye Girl Friday, Apri19 at 11:00 Sa:t. & Sun., April10& 11 at9:00and 11:00 FREEl Don't Miss 007 in Dr. No • • Tuesday, April 13 at 10: oo & 12: oo $1.00' •

Page 14 OONCORDIENSIS, April-8, 1982 Women's Basketball Statisti·cs FG Pet. FT Pet. Rebs. ( D-0) Pts. 101'0 1112 Avg. 59.4 65.4 S~ftball Looking Good UNION Opponents 37.2 46.8 334-256 43.0 63.6 296-250 RECORD (7-10) Hartwick 92, Union 43 UN ION 61. Russell Sage 55 Skidmore 73, Union 69 ( OTJ UN ION 69, North Adams 58 UN ION 49. Dominican 46 Vassar 60, Union 57 ( 2 OT's) UN ION 74, St. Rose 69 UN ION 58, Albany State 53 RPI 52, Union 48 LeMoyne 77, Union 70 Williams 58, Union 57 UN ION 70, Russe.ll Sage 60 UNION 66, New Paltz 57 Hamilton 84, Union 52 Oneonta 69, Union 49 CAPITAL DIST. TOURNEY Albany State 69, Union 66 St. Rose 80, Union 60 By LINDA GUTIN Sports Staff Last year they made it to the stafe tournament. This year, coached by Mar:y Gillespie, the women's softball team has their sights set on another berth in the States. Will they make it? Well, in the talent department the team only lost two starters from last year's winning squad. Deb Downey graduated while Lynn LeBlanc suffered two broken bones in her right hand in the first scrinunage of the season. Therefore,. the powerful Women's Lax Hopeful hitting,. daring base running, spectacular pitching and aggressive fielding evidenced last year, coupled with some strong newcomers, should make for good spectating. In addition to the returning . players-Carol· Wrenn, Kirsten Peterson, Brenda Hugick, Lynn LeBlanc, Dina Pliotis, Barb Bailey, Karen Roth, and Linda Gutin--Union's softball team has also acquired, through intense negotiations and trading, two freshmen, Peggy Petro an~:I: Louisa Rooney, and a few upperclassmen out .for their first year-Cindy Buddenhagen, Cathy Gifford. Peggy Laden, Ruth Ewing, JoAnne Dolan and Jane Webb. Hampered by the weather, the four weeks of preseason practice all took place in the fieldhouse. Moreover., five of the girls started practicing with the team only last week after returning fx:om an exciting winter term abroa(l. After two scrimmages, in which im· proved organization was wit- nessed, the team is extremely psyched up for the season to begin .. Blow off your studyin-g and come watch the team play. Statistics have- correlated the number of runs scored by the home team to the number of fans cheering them on. (But wear your long johits.) (CNB)-Union's women's lacrosse team, which ended the 1981 season with a five-game win streak and its best record in the seven-year history of the sport, hopes to pick up where it left off when they open the 1982 season. Despite the 8-3 record, Union was overlooked by the New York State AIAW tour- nament committee, something head coach Marty Morrisorr doesn't expect to happen again if the team can duplicate its performance of a year ago. opponents by a 101-74 margin last year, will have its entire attacking unit back for the third straight season. J uniot! Bolly Howard has set Union single-- season scoring records during her first two years. As a fresh- man, Holly tallied 37 goals, then a school record, and topped that mark last season with a 44-goal performance. Senior Sheryl Katz was second in scoring in 1981 with 24 goals while junior Emily Monosson recorded 19 tallies. Senior Liz Garcia and junior Debbie Goldberg rounded out Union's scoring with six and four goals, respectively. the return of veteran goalie Johanna Briggs. The senior netminder, who was a starter during 1979's 6-5 season, spent the spring of 1981 abroad and missed the entire year. Kathleen Kozera, Nancy Shuster and Roberta Stein were all freshman defensive let- terwinners in 1981. Women's Track \If we can have as good a season as we did in 1981, I feel we'll have a very good shot at becoming the first Union women's lacrosse team in the tournament,\ said Morrison. Union, which outscored its 11 The team's defense, which has three letterwinners returning, will be bolstered by Sheryl Katz and Liz Garcia wil:l co-captain this year's squad. During the past two years, coach Morrison, who begins her fifth season with ~ record of 18- 21-2, has guided Union to its first winning season and its finest record. This year she is hoping to keep the streak intact by leading her team to the AIAW tournament. By KATHY BENTLEY Women's Sports Editor This year's women's outdoor track team, with first year coach Russ Ebbets and. assistant Bob Magee, loQks like it will provide a strong base for a newly expanding women's track program at Union. Coach EbQets is looking forward to this season and expects a good start · at the Binghamton Invitational this Wednesday, April 14th. (Hamilton cancelled the home meet previously scheduled for this date.} Ebbets believes the team will do wen with some DeCresente Distributing Co., Inc. Mechanicville, N.Y. 664-9866 members qualifying for the NYSAIAW meet at St. John's in early May and the NCAA's in Tilinois. Union will be able to fill up events in its full schedule of seven meets this year with . twelve women, . including Andrea Gref' for sprints, Inge Stockman running middle distances, and Danielle Cherniak for long distances. ,Beth -Chauncey and Linda Esposito will do shot .put and discus. Janice Glidden, a versatile athlete who will be in the heptathlon and weight events, will captain the team; Pick-ups every Tuesday Afternoon Mark Ziskind 382-9272 Chris McMorrow 382s9272 'PICK COULD YOUR CAMPUS GROUP USE A QUICK $500-$1 ,000? IF YOU'VE GOT THE Tl ME ... WE'VE GOT THE PLAN! Miller Brewing Company and our local distributor are conducting an exciting six week contest on your campus. Your organization could qualify for one of the three $1 .OOODO or three $500.00 cash awards. Winners will be determined at the conclusion of the contest So remember, make your next pick up a Miller High Life, Lite or Lowenbrau. Quality pays off in many ways'! Cor.~­ tact your local Miller Campus Rep for more details J

I !r, [)0 he of th er lg IVO n- it- ily to lld IY· he he of ut te ln ln LP l>f th lg ~e Le le s. la ld a in llt n: Page 115 Intramural Round up.· By DAVE ;I? ACE S}iorts Staff B League Champlouhips The 5-on-5 basketball championships were played towards the end of last term. SurpriSingly, the B league game was not even close. The Warriors, led by Steve Verp and Ron Panic, beat Chi Psi by a score of 47-25. Chi Psi had. a number of good athletes on the team, including Tod Fobare, George Oberstadt, and Glenn Rosenberg. However, they were unable to stop. the bigger, more experienced Warriors. The game started ()Ut close. Chi Psi had a 10-8 lead after fourteen minutes of play :It was at this point in the game that the Warriors pulled away for good. They scored twelve of the next thirteen points and took a 20-11 lead into halftime. Chi Psi came out in a tenacious man-to-maJl defense in the second half. Despite this, Fred Leinfuss was able to score the first two points of the half on a twelve foot jump shot. The Warriors continued to dominate the game and led 38-17 with seven minutes to go in the contest. Chi Psi put on a full court press with three minutes to go but the experience of the Warriors broke through the pressure and they went on to a 47-25 victory. A League Semi-Finals Chi had its own talent in .Andy Dreher, Joe Rutriik, Jomn Di Fucci, Sam Gifford, and Peter Smiley. There were numerous lead changes throughout the game. The mat~h came do'Wil to the final minuteJ when &igma Chi won the game on the foul line. In the other semi~final ·~:ame, Chi . Psi was matcned a~ainst the Beavers. The :Beavers were the only independent tea:m to reach the playoffs; The;r had beaten Phi Sigma Kappa in a wild-card game to reacb tbe final four. Most p~ople el(J><ected Chi Psi to win easily because they had beaten the :Beavers by twenty-five points during the season. The Beavers' froat line of Jason Brandt, Jeff Feigelson, and Dave Pace knew they would have problems containing the Chi Psi big men including Jim McGhee, Steve Abba, Mark Palumbo and DaveWUblll'\. The Beavers surprised everyome by jumping out to a 1{)-4 lead. However, they let the lead slip away and Chi Psi tied the score at 23-23 as the first .b.alf cune to an end. The Beavers scored. six of the first seve!l points of the second half thanks to Gary Wenner's hustling defense. At this point, Chi Psi g-uards Billy Curtin and Ed MaiTinan started putting pressure on Beaver guards Rws\ Wenner and Pete Brown. The B~avers could not handle the Cm Psi pressure and .ended u.p losing the game 41-36. started out In a man~to-man defense. Jim McGhee started the scoring for Chi Psi when he tipped in a ,missed shot. Joe Rutnik answered for Sigma Chi on one of his patented power moves to the basket. A few minutes later, McGhee went high for a rebouml, threw a stron·g outlet pass to Ed Mari·inan, wlw passed behind ~the back to Mark Palumbo who made the layup and was fouled. He completed the three point play and Chi ·P'si t<Jok a 9-4 lead. They increased the lead to 13-4 with twelve minutes to go in the first hal£: However, 'Rutnik and Sam Gifford combined for the next seventeen Sigma Chi points and they took a-.21-18 lead. It was then Chi Psi·s turn to get hot. They scored eight of the next twelve points and led 26-25 at halftime. After three 11nd a half minutes in the second half, Gifford was fouled by McGhe.e forcing the Chi Psi center to the bench with three fouls. '111le loss of McGhee did not stop Chi Psi. They in· creased their lead from two to eight points thanks to fine passing by E:d Marrinan and Steve Abba. They maintained this lead the rest of the· way despite full ~{)urt pressure by .Sigma Chi. The final score was 60-51. Chi Psi won the cham- pionship because of the total team effort they showed. - Special thanks to John Jarosak and J{)hn Moiitanile for their fine reffing in these playoff games. By MICHAEL SHARP Sports Staff The first Athlete of the Week for spring term 1982 is senior attackman Sean Durham, Tri- Captain of the men's lacrosse team. Concordy sports editors had their eyes on Sean as a hot prospect for athlete of the week when he travelled south this spring with the lax team to open the season against Guilford College, William and Mary, and St. Mary's College. On March 22nd, Sean started the season with four goals against Guilford. After the opener his performance never faltered. On the 24th, he exhibited a potent offense with three goals and two . assists · against William and Mary and on March 27th he - garnered three goals and four assists against St. Mar,y's · College. After leaving the sun and coming back north, Sean had five goals and two assists versus Slena College. In the team's first home performance, against Hartwick College, Sean had three goals and six assists. The astronomical totals of just five games are eighteen goals and fourteen assists. All- American here we C()me! Sean, who was also tri-captain last year, is surpassing the pace of his 7 4-point 1981 season, during which he tallied 46 goals and 28 assists. His contribution to the 1981 lacrosse team earned him ·the Most Valuable Player award. Sean stands 5'8\ and weighs 150 lbs. He is an Economics- Computer Science maj<Jr from Massapequa, NY, and is a brother of the Chi Psi frater- nity. The best of luck to Sean and the Dutchmen lacrosse team in the 1982 season. In the A league, .the four teams in the semi-finals all had identical records of 6-1. The first game matched Sigma Chi and Theta Delta Chi. The contest was close the entire way. Theta Delta Chi depended greatly on their big men Bruce J akiel and Joe Uvegas; Both of these players have bad varsity experience. However, Sigma A League ChampiollShips The A league .championship was a rematch between last . year's finalists. In that game, Sigma Chi easily-. beat C!Ii Psi. Before the rematch, things looked tough for Clli Psi: They lost starters Rick Sa!)ir to illness and Billy Curtin to a pulled hamstring. Both teams Lacrosse Starts Strong •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Congrr~tulations to tlte Winter Term Intramural ChampioRs A League Basketball--Chi Psi B League Basketball--Warriors Men's Broornball-- Chi Psi Cannonba llers Women's Broomba II--Jetson 1 S Co-Ree Volleyball-- Theta Delta Chi - Delta Gamma ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Continued from page 16 Mary's whittled away at the lead, playin~ off <Jf the key mistakes of Union to tie the game at the end of the fourth quarter. The'ClVertime play was brief as once again St. Mary's capitalized orr a Uriion mistake and won the game 13-12. Frustrated by mistakes and a penalty-filled trip, the laxmen returned horne with a 0-3 record to face Sien:a in the season opener. Improvement in play, as well as a new adventure, appeared as the main reward from this trip. Captaitl Sean Durham, leading scorel' on the trip and last season, displayed his talents with precision on attack. Senior Jim Wright and fresh- man Marc Eudin constitute the remainder of Union's first line attack, b()th contributing heavily to tile goal scoiing. ln the midfield, strong play by CHI PSI'S 9th ANNUAL SCHENECTADY-SARATOGA BEER RALLY Will be held on April 13, 1982 Contact: Rob Antonucci or Ter-rell Van lngen at the Ledge for entry forms and rules. Judges als<> needed. Carl: 382-9029. Reminder: This is not a race against the clock. A set time, .driving at the speed limit has already been determ.ined. Closest time above set time wins. ,-- veterans Marc Marro, Stephen Myers, Dave Schwnann and James Bono was key as well as help from freshmen rookies Tom Clorite and Sam Murray. On defense, captain Dana Johnston led the team with support by veterans Ben Maynard, Steve Sullivan, Marty Sands, Charles Freni and rookie John Drake. In the goal, captain John Mercer once again per- formed brilliantly With back-up help from junior Steve Koscs. Back in Schenectady, the Dutchmen prepared on the new turf for the rival game against Siena. Last year, Siena trounced Union 15-4. Thus, revenge was in order. Playing at Siena, Union struggled for the lead in the first quarter but by the half led by four. In the second half, the important strategy was ball control for Union, something that was lacking in the spring trip. Siena fought back, but in vain,. as Union held on to take its first win, 16-13. Well-executed play in all areas of the game, especially John Mercer in the goal, secured the victory for the Dutchmen. The laxmen's next opponent, Hartwick College, arrived to play on the new field last Saturday. On a gloomy, cold, rainy day, the Dutchmen started out slowly in the game. Then, suddenly, Union struck with a surge of goals, culminating in a 14-3 halftime lead. The game continued to be dominated by Union in the second half, with the game ending in a 20-5 Dutchmen victory. Junior Marc Marro led the scoring tally with six goals. Next Thursday, Union travels to SUNY Albany attempting to improve their 2-3 record. Sports 'Happenings BASEBALL LACROSSE TRACK TENNIS GOLF ApriiS-15 April9atRPI 1:00 April10 at LeMoyne l: 00 April13 Albany St. 3:00 Aprill5Hartwick 3:00 Apri I 10 Geneseo 2:00 April 13 at St. Lawrence 3:00 April 10 RPI 10:00 April 14 Hamilton 3:00 April 9 Hobart 3: 00 April 12 at Skidmore 4:00 April12 Skidmore 1:00 Aprill5 at Hartwick 1: 00

Page 16 OONCORDIENSIS, April 8, 198S Lacrosse Scoops Pair By STEVE MYERS Sports Staff Over the past several years. the Union Co_llege lacrosse team has traveled to southern terrain to escape the unfavorable conditions of Schenectady and o obtain playing exposW'e on non-snow-covered fields, to prepare for the season opener_ During the course of this journey, the team made several stops throughout the South, whether to play games or to practice in a pleasant climate. The first stop was in Greensboro, North Carolina, where the laxmen spent the major portion of the trip at Guilford College. Of the op- ponents encountered on the trip, the least known was Guilford. Even though the team prepared for the game with an extensive practice, the preceeding day in a much warmer climate, Union was unable to control the ball and lost the battle by a score of 16-11. Being only the second day of play outdoors for the Dut- chmen, it was obvious that many improvements and refinements were necessary: The Dutchmen practiced at Guilford the following day and, after enjoying the sights of Greensboro, especially one Taco Bell, the laxmen geared up to travel to Williamsburg, Va. At Williamsburg, the Dut- chmen encountered a former southern opponent . in the Indians of William and Mary College. Building their con- fidence on their improved execution and on the loss of Indian starters, Union entered the game with a mighty .surge. Early in the first quarter, Union led 2-1. However, that was the only time Union held the lead. William and Mary returned in the second quarter with eight unanswered goals and held the lead until the end of the game. The final score was 13-7. In a last attempt to capture a win in the 'South, the la:xmen traveled up to Baltimore, Md. to play St. Mary's College. St. Mary's, an opponent of two years before, has had a strong club +Jlrough the years and this year was no different. The Dutchmen, practicing in the slightly cooler Baltimore air, readied themselves for the final conflict. The Dutchmen jumped ahead in the first ·quarter ·by seven goals; mmetheless 1 . St. Continued on page 15 Baseball Ready ByGEORGEOBERSTADT Sports Staff The baseball team recently traveled to St. Petersburg, Florida, for their third annual spring trip. The team was greeted nicely with cloudless skies and temperatures in the high 80's. Baseball was the top priority here, however, and the group responded well with an -impressive double-header sweep of Hartwick C.Jllege and fine performances against the Cardinals, Mets and Pirates rookie league players. The Dutchmen were ve:ry com- petitive against the more ex- perienced and highly skilled professionals, with an 11-11 tie against the Car.ainals, 4-2 dog fight with the Mets, and a 7-2 loss to the Pirates. The southern trip adds gr~atly to the baseball program but is funded solely by the player&, so support tlle team in their efforts to raise funds to combat the high costs of travel, board and lodging. Winter Wrap-Up Co-captains Mike Saccocio (OF) and George Oberstadt (C- OF} lead a team with a good balance of experience and youth. Other returning veterans include Al Dilibero (88-P), Ed Moriarty (C), Andy Dreher (OF), Joe Wood (IF-QF), and Paul McGrath (P). The new players have proved to add greatly to, in particular, a questionable .pitching staff. Newcomers on the mo11Ild in· elude sophomore Dave Packer, sophomore transfer Mark Cietek, and freshmen Nat Harris, .Frank Scarpanato and Dan Rowe. The Dutchmen infield will also take on a dif- ferent look this year, with the likes of senior Fred Brown (2B), junior Joe Clinton (lB-P), sophomores Tom Blackburn (2B-OF) and Mark Cietek (P- SS), and freshmen John Moretti (3Btand TimAlibozek (S8-2B) vying for playing time. Fresh~ man Andy Arthur (C) will be trying to break into the lineup behind the plate. (CNB) Clinton ECAC All-star Union College junior guard Joe Clinton (Pearl River) was selected to the ~CAC's Upstate New York Basketball All-star team, it was announced by the Eastern College Athletic Conference. Clinton, a three-\year starter for the Dutchmen, led 13-11 Union with 317 points in 24 games (a 13.0 average) and 139 assists. During the season, he established two College records in assists. Against Hartwick, Clinton established a single- game mark of 15 and finished his third year on the varsity with 374 assists, far above the previous record of 326 set in 1975. During the recently con- cluded 1981-32 season, Clint()n hit 135 of 285 field goals (47.3 pet.) and 47 of 67 free thro-ws (70.1 pet.) while pulling down 40 rebounds and coming up with 21 steals. Clinton, who was elected to the ECAC freshman All-East team and the New York State freshman team following the 1979-80 campaign, is an English major at Union. Currently a member of the Dutchm-en baseball team, Joe is the son of Edward and Frances Clinton of Pearl River, New York. Soltis in AlA W Championships Union College senior Marabeth Soltix placed in the championship heat in all five of her events in the New York State AIA W Division III Championship Swinl Meet held at SUNY Binghamton last weekend. Soltis finished seventh in the state in the 100 butterfly (1:07.01), eighth in the ~0 butterfly (2:39.1), 12th in the 200 freestyle (2:09.7), 13th in the 100 freestyle, and 18th in the 200 1M with a 2:31.76. Sophomore Sharon Pearl placed 13th in the 200 backstroke with a 2:32.59. Egan ECAC \Rookie of the Week\ Freshman wing Gill Egan was vQted the Eastern College Athletic Association's \Rookie ofthe Week\ in the final week of the 1981-82 season. Egan, who finished as Union's third- leading scorer with 28 points on 19 goals and nine assists despite playing 12 games as a defen- seman, finished his outstanding rookie season with the Skating Dutchmen by scoring two goals against Salem State to spark a 6-4 victory in the season•s finale. Egan, who had his first career hat trick against Potsdam on February 16; helped Union win four of its final five games by scoring eight goals and handing out one assist during the stretch. The only game that he did not score, Union lost to New Haven by a 5-3 margin. Egan, who played for the Napean Raiders of the Central Junion A League for two seasons, is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Egan of Napean, Ontario, Canada. MacFaddin, Dombrowski drop NCAA openers Union College wrestlers Doug MacFaddin (Avon, CT) and Dennis Dombrowski (Ridgefield, CT) both lost their opening-round matches in last month•s NCAA Wrestling Tournament held at SUNY Cortland. MacFaddin, wrestling in the 150-pound weight class, was pinned in 2:56 by RIT's Dale Smith. Dombrowski, who competed in the 177-pound class, lost a 10-0 decision to Art Pittman of the University of Buffalo. All thoughts are optimistic for the 1982 seasan if it ever gets underway. Due to Mother Nature's relentless onslaught, the Dutchmen have had · to cancel their first three games. The opener is n()W scheduled for Friday, April 9th at RPI with a doubleheader scheduled at LeMoyne, Saturday, April lOth to round out the week. Drawing date for the baseball raffle will be announced in next week's Concordiensis. Support the Union College baseball team by purchasing raffle tickets for the 1981-1982 baseball team raffle and by attending their games at the Schenectady Central Park ... if the snow ever melts, that is. Ruggers Win By S.C. Sports Staff 'Though Saturday was dark, cold and wet, it was a bright day for the Rugby,;,Football Club as it opened its Spring season with a victory over Albany Law School. ,Fullbac~ Tom Conway ac-- counted for Union's scoring as he made good two penalty lticks for three points eacl},, as the Garnet ruggers defeated Law by a score of 6-3. Conway got his first chance early in the first half as the serum, directed by co-captain Jody Karlin, pushed the ball downfield toward their goal line. After a penalty on the visiting team, Conway put his first kick of thirty meters through the uprights to put Union on the scoreboard. Next, it was Law's turn to score. After several ex:changes by both teams, Albany Law was able to bring the ball toward their goal, but a tough Garnet defense held the offenders back. The visiting squad did .get a break though as a penalty: was called which allowed them a free kick. This they did. take advantage of as the Law kicker put it through to make the score 3-3. With the game ·tied and the time in the first half running out, Union made a surge to score before the break. This time it was the line guided by co-captain Joe Cardino that was to move the ball. As the ball was being brought out through tP,e Union line, Law conunitted what was later to be a decisive penalty. Once again Conway had the chance to RUt his club up and once again that's exactly what be did. His kick from thirty-seven meters again split the uprights giving the game its score of 6-3. In the second half, Albany Law came out determined to · avoid defeat. With the wind at their back, the visiting team missed several opportune penalty kicks, and an Albany · try was called back because of a penalty. These mistakes and a strong, @ysical Union defense prevented Law from gaining a victory, giving the Union ruggers a win in their first Spring game over a team that literally destroyed them earlier .this fall by a score of 44-o. \Tills is the strongest team · I've seen in four or five seas·ons,\ commented captain Cardino 1 ''but we've stili got a lot to work on. We're also trying to turn things around after such a poor fall season.\ Karlin, the other captain, said, \The guys played a strong game and they showed a lot of hustle.\ He continued about . this season, · saying, \This season is seen mostly as a rebuilding season because, though we do have some veterans, we have a few new guys who lack the ex- perience. But if things go like they did against Albany Law, we•n do alright. Playing in the serum in this first game were Karlin, J evin Taylor, Keith Dean, Paul Siletzley, Wayne Godlin, John Tierney, Carl Aikens, .and Doug Baumgarten. On the line were Cardino, Conway, Eric Serilli, Brad Nicholson, Tony Morgan, Lee Waxman and Scott Collins who was later replaced by Dan Logue during the halftime. BGame IIi the second game the op- posite happened. This time it was Albany Law as they got even with a 6-3 victory in an extended game. Law was on the board first in the second half after a toughly fought, scoreless first half. The visiting ruggers made good a penalty kick from twenty-seven meters .. _But this didn't discoW'age the Garnet players ·as they soon brought the ball . down deep ·into Law territory. Their scoring came on an Albany penalty when Bob Waaler made 'he kick good, giving Union their points. With . the score locked at 3-3, the game ended. Both teams decided to play on to give all players a chance to play. Playing in this \third half,\ it was only the Albany ruggers who could muster any points. They were given their chance after a Union penalty deep in the Garnet territory. Once again, on a day of scoring only on penalty kicks, Albany Law put the kick up and made it good giving them enough points to edge the home club. After this it was time to head for warmth and beer as the teams engaged in their traditional post-game party. Players in this game that didn't play in the first game were Waaler, Paul Cun- ningham, Jack Donohue, Wes Rappaport, Steve Cole, Don Lippman and Tim Meyer. r:: ... 1.. ro ~ ,.. .. ~ ,.. ..0 0 .... 0 t

got a er such the geys they He season, seen season 0 have a few ex- go like Law, in this Jevin Paul John were Serilli, Collins by Dan the op- it got in an first in toughly The good a didn't players ball on an Bob good, With b.e game on to \third Albany any en their penalty scoring Albany it points this warmth engaged that game Gun- Wes Don c .... l.. co ~ >- l.. ~ >- ..0 0 .... 0 ..!:. 0. 1877 CXI, No. 19 York April 15, 1982 RevieW De·clared Unfair Dr. Jack Maranville, Executive Associate to the President, recently responded to the inadequate review given Union by \The New 'York Times Selective Guide to Col'leges.\ By A.J. BRODSKY News Editor The New York Times in conjunction with Times Books, its subsidiary publishing house, recently placed on the market a new college guidebook. \The New York Times Selective Guide to Colleges\ attempts to rate 265 major colleges and universities determined to be the leading institutions in the nation by its editor Edward B. Fisk. Union is one of those colleges. The rev.iew of a college is I limited to a number of stars in New ·nean .Forthcoming By MARCY BURSTINER Staff Last week, Concordiensis ran a profile on Dr. Charles Love, and Dr. Robert Massa, two candidates in the search for a new Dean of Students. What follows here is a background summarization of the remaining four .candidates, Dr. Susan Bolman; Joseph L. Mammola, Dr. Karl Lewis Schilling, and Donald It. Spring. On Thursday, April 22, Dr. in English and Philosophy and in 1966 received his Masters in English from the University of Notre Dame. Along with hls teaching positions at Bucknell University, Ball State University, and the University of Notre Dame, he has had wide-ranging professional and administrative experience as well. He became the Director of Residential Instruction Program at Ball State, then Assistant to the Dean for Special Programs and Assistant Dean of Students there. Mammola also directed and participated in many programs and workshops, some among them , were entitled \The Establishing and Maintaining of Innovative Higher Education Programs\ \New Approaches to Undergraduate Education\ and \Stress In the Undergraduate Experience\. Re-Evaluation and Extension of Construct Validity\. In terms of his relevant employment- history, Schilling began his career as Hall Advisor in a Residence Hall Program of the University of ·Florida. Between 1974 and 75 he did his clinical internship at Shand's Teaching Hospital of the University of Florida and for the next fow· years became Assistant Professor of Psychology and College Counsellor at Earlham College before being appointed to his present position at Miami University. Schilling has written and published many papers and articles, including, \The Impact of a Resident Assistant Training Course on the Personal Development \of the Trainees\ and \Peer Counseling . in the Residence Con~ued on page 2 such categories as academics, social and quaJity of living. In addition, there is a short written commentary which ls intended to reflect on those qualities and detriments unable to be covered adequately in the star system. Union received an academic rating of three stars out of five, a social rating of two on a scale of five and our quality of living was given a three out of five. Additionally, the written coEninent .has not been looked upon favorably by the ad- ministration. The administration feels that Union has not been rated fairly. Questions have been raised concerning the accuracy of the book's presentation and· the validity of their methodological approach. Dr. Jack Maranville, . Executive Associate to the President, is preparing a statement with the aid of Professor James UnderwoDd for President Morris. 'The statement will attempt to respond to Union's questionable review in a positive sense. Maranville stressed that UniDn did not want to become \one of a chorus saying 'you are not nice to us'.\ Maranville stated that it was important for the ad- ministration to take a serious stand because the \weight of the name\ New York Times adds special importance to the book. As a result of criticism related to this point, The Times announced on March 16 that it was withdrawing its name from the title. Leonard Harris, corporate relations director of The Times, commented that ''we felt we were misleading readers by making them (the Susan Bolman, Vice President for Student Services at the New York Institute of Technology will visit Union College, the last of the si:x finalists to meet With the Search Coi'nmittee. Dr. Bolman has an extensive educational background. She graduated from American . University in 1954 with a B.A. in SociolDgy and went on to receive her Masters in Guidance from Columbia University in 1956. In 1977 she completed her doctorate with a dissertation entitled \Influences On the Career Development and Life Plans of Undergraduates at a Women's College\. Dr. Bolman has held many diverse administrative positions. She was Acting Dean of Women at American University, a ·GoWiselor in the Office of Student Activities at Brooklyn University, Dean of Women, Associate Dean of Another candidate, Dr. Karl Schilling, is presently the Assistant Dean and Assistant Professor of Interdisciplinary Studies at the School of Inter- disciplinary Studies, a part , of the Western College Program of Miami University. Schilling graduated from Adrian College in 1971 summa cum laude, with a B.A. in Psychology and English. He received his Masters in Psychology from the University of Florida in ~972 arid went on to complete his doctorate with a dissertation entitled \Ego Identity Status: A Charges Leveled Students, and Associate Professor at American University, Dean of Residence at Radcliffe College, an Editorial Consultant at Change - magazine, and Director of PlaceiDent and Career Plan- ning at Barnard College. Her currEnt responsibilities include Student Activities, Housing, Financial Aid, HEOP, Career Services; International Student Office, Athletics, CoWiseling, Veterans Office, and Study Skills Center. For all those interested, Dr. Bolman will be meeting with students and faculty on April22 at 2:15p.m. in the RyDn Room in the Science and Engineering building and at 3:15 p.m. in the Social Science Lounge. Joseph L. Mammola, another finalist in the Search, currently serves as Associate Dean of Students at BucknelLUniver- sity •. M:ammola graduated from St. Joseph's College in Philadelphia in 1964 with. a B.A By JUDIESTEINHARPT Staff On Monday, April 12, the Student Forum held a meeting in which the members decided that WRUC had to hold new elections at the end of the term upon submission and approval of a new constitution to the Forum. Josh Lowry, who claims that elections held last There is one vacancy for the position of Senior Representative on the Student Forum. This vacancy must be .filled immediately, and an election will conducted on Wednesday, April 21, 10:00 am-5:00 pmo Runoffs, will be conducted Friday, April 23 during the sam~ hours. For sake of immed~cy, candidate pictures and statements will not be submitted to Concordiensis. Petitions will be available' at the Student Activities- office, with Lorraine Marra on Thursday only, April 15, and must be retumed to her oHice no later than 4:30 pm, Mo.nday, April 19 .. term for the board positions were unfair, brought charges against the executive board of the radio station. On April6, the Committee on Committees held a meeting in which Josh Lowry and his op- position, Jeff Mitchell and Alan Goldberg were allowed to ex- press their views. The chair- man of the committee, Gary Chadick, then recommended a fair solution to the problem based on his observations. Chadick told the forum that he believed the WRUC elections were 'fair, although the station has problems involving its constitution and financing. He recommended that the Finance Committee investigate WRUC's operations. At the Committee on Com- mittees meeting, there was a discrepancy over WRUC's constitution. WRUC has been operating under a constitutiDn that was never approved by the Student Forum. After Lowry was given the correct constitution, he still had a long list of charges against WRUC and its board elections. He claimed that the election meeting was generally unruly, disorganized, 'and as soon as he spoke people would refute what he said. He also claimed that' Contlnaed on page \2 readers) think these (reviews) had the full, full weight of The Times behind it.\ But adds Mr. Fiske, \there's no element of repudiation.\ It should be noted that the publishers failed to notify Mr. Fiske directly of the change. Maranville responded to the publisher's decision by saying that the damage has been already done. Even if a second edition is printed and correc- tions made, \we are in the position Df playing catch-up (because of the damage already inflicteq'.\ Even so,Maranville takes the position that while the piece has many obvious flaws, \my overall response to this thing is that it is pretty good.\ · . Maranville went on-. to take offense at \cheap shots\ directed at both UniDn and the Schenectady community. For the sake of comparison, bot-h Williams College and W~sleyan had five star academic ratings and three star social lives. HamiltDn College received five stars for their academic program and also was rated four stars for social life. This comparison reflects ~only the ratilfgs of the schools and not their write-up in the guide. Maranville asked the obvious question of \why Hamilton and not Union?\ Adjectives like \highly questionable\ and \in· consistent\ were brought up in the interview in reference to the guide's methodology. Maranville found it difficult to accept the guide's charac- terizations of Schenectady, the adequacy of library facilities, and the college's status, quoted from the guide, as \i!till a secondary-level safety school formany Ivy League hopefuls.'' Furthermore, there were problems regarding thE: ac- curacy of descriptions por- traying departmental weaknesses and admission policies, to name just a few. Maranville felt that although the write-up for the most part was not openly negative, there were certainly less than positive implications. Concordiensis will provide a clearer picture of the issue in the near future when President Morris' statement will be made public. Additionally, reactions of administrators will be con· veyed. Maranville closed on the optimistic note that he expects Union's ratings to increase in reaction to the President's statement. But, to quote Maranville, \I wouldn't be satisfied with a four.\ • • \\''x, .. ,,,,,,, ··\ G,~~,~,tttee. . ~':',~~~,;:,~gf~~\~~·n, ... _P·~\ ;:::: 1 :.~1~i~~r,~ot~ ... P· 6 . .,, '·~,,., -N~ttifi~ .·., .. t 'sti'tfllr~Ql!fGit\$t 1':.: t,,jl,., ..

Page 2 GONOORDIEN81S 1 April16~ 198! Women's Week Underway WRUC Question By DOUG LANDON Staff With Women's Week about half over, the annual event is progressing well, according to chairperson Polly Wheeler. Each year en campus, the third week of Spring tertn is designated Women's Week, with activities spensored by the Union College Women's Net· work. This-year, the effort takes place Aprill2 through 17. The purpose of Women's Week is to raise campus con- sciousness concerning the roles and problems of women in society today. Activities focus on women both internationally and on campus, and include panels, symposiums, in- formation talks and women entertainers. So far this week, the women's organization has sponsored Intellectual Cabaret, Coffeehouse, films, and a speech on female assertion. Wheeler emphasizes that participation inJhe activities is not restricted to women and is in fact encouraged .for all. One .film, \My Brilliant Career,\ shown Wednesday night, portrayed a woman on the frontier of Australia who was forced to choose between marriage to a wealthy in- dividual and continuing her career in writing. This woman had to m~ke her decisipn by considering both financial and emotional pressures of each alternative. F,inally, she selected her career. Friday evening, the Mass Transit Street Theatre will perform in Memorial Chapel. The New York City company's program will focus on working people of both sexes and the lives they lead. According to Professor Catherine Clinton of the History Department, who is faculty sponsor of the Women's Network, \it shows a broadening of feminist concerns that Women's Week is including an event which integrates women's problems into the larger social ills w)lich face us today.\ Professor Clinton, also a member . of the College's Women's Committee, says that the success of Women's Week has permitted the committee to continue these activities throughout the year. The Network has enabled the committee to hold an annual career panel .to discuss goals of women grad11ating from Union. Orientation Advisors Maureen Avalle Amy Bernstein Sally Byrne Alisia Calabria Sally Carey Sue Cohen Jennifer Cornell Kelli DeFelice Michelle DeSimone Irene Fassler Debbie Frisch Allison Goldstein Sue Gray Patrice Hefferman Mary Holt Sherri Kudrewicz Jennie Lea Amy Levine R11th-Ellen Lewis Fran Loft Anne Marie Lynch Ilene Markay Sharie Midoneck Sandy Nagler Joan O'Connor Debbie Packman Sharon Pearl Dina Pliotis Debbie Poskanzer Suzanne Rice Laura Robin Robin Rosenbaum Gayle Rosenthal Diane Sadak Risa Schwed Tod Talbot Sue Wilder Cynthia Wilkenson Rob Antonnucci Roger Barnes Don.Beal Tony Carbone Brendan Cassidy Larry Castelli Hal Cohan Barry Cohen Seth Coulter John Cozzi Rob Derbabien Peter Forbes Dave Fox Tim Green Rob Israel Mike Kaplowitz J<lhn Kayle Mark Klaiman Mike Kozub Phil Lanza Gary Lehr Barton Levine Ken Labrot Duncan Mackenzie Tom Megerian Rich Mintz Ron Newbold Gerry O'Keefe Erik Peterson Steve Piraino - Pete Schulum John Skinner Tip Simmons Jeff Steinberg Mark Valentine Steve Verp Brian Wade Cornell Law School Undergraduate ·Prelaw Program June 7 to July 20, 1982 A demanding six-week program for college students who want to learn what law school is like. For further j.ntormation write to . Jane G. Deatn, Cornell Law School 634 Myron Taylor Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853 On Monday, April 26th the HALE HOUSE DINING HALL WILL BE CLOSED due to a previous committment. It will be closed for· LUNCH ONLY. All students will be requested to eat in OLD CHAPEL DINING HALL Please ENTER thru the door CLOSEST to the SECURITY SIDE oi the Building. This week, Women's Committee is selling feminist postcards, T- shirts and posters in Carnegie Hall to benefit the cause; Both the Women's Network and the Women's Committee have put much hard work into their projects and hope for support from the Union com- munity. Continued from .page 1 less than one fourth of the active members were present, which is insufficient to hold elections under any constitution. Lowry's · major concern was the fact that Alan Goldberg was not a full member of WRUC upon his election as general manager. Lowry was running against Q 1 .,,. t• ;Ua I ICG IOns ••• Goldberg for the general manager position, yet Goldberg was in Israel at the time of elections. As others spoke .in favor of Goldberg at the meeting, he was elected. In addition, Jeff Mitchell called Goldberg in Israel on the WRUC phone, using a speaker-phone Une while others were present. Lowry believes, Mitchell ~as .getting unwarranted ·support .for Goldberg. Lowry said, \it's not right for the school to spend money on one candidate and not on the other.\ The school's payment for Mitc)lell's call is being investigated. Continued from page 1 Halls of the University of Florida''. He has also par- ticipated in many programs and has recently submitted a program proposal to the National Association of Student Personnel Administrators {NASPA) entitled \When Student Affairs is a F ac.ulty Affair\. Many students are already acquainted with Dr. Donald E. Spring, Professor of Psychology and presently serving as Union's Acting Dean of Students. Spring asked that this paper forego an interview with him concerning his candidacy on ,grounds that any statement on his behalf might seem to be a political m()ve. He feels that his record here speaks for itself and he does not wish to influence the Search Committee in any way. On explaining that the intent of this article is. to inform the students, n()t to influence the faculty or Search Committee, he replied that his door is and always was open to any students who might wqt to talk with him and he gave his con- sent to the publication of his educational and professional background information. Dr. Spring graduated magna cum laude in 1969 .from Springfield College with a B.A. in Psychology. He received his Masters in Clinical Psychology thl;ee years later from the University of Rhode Island and in 1973 completed his doctorate With a dissertation on ''The Effects of Motivation and Behavior on Fear Reduction Under Response Prevention\. During the summers of 1971 and 1972 Spring acted as Director for the Harmony Hill School in which his responsibilities in- cluded running a 35-bed residential treatment center for emotionally disturbed children. In 1974 he became Assistant Professor of Psychology at Union College, took on the additional job as Counselor to Students and Associate Director of the Counseling Center, and since July of 1981 has served as Acting Dean of Students. Mitchell and · Goldberg claimed they had reasons for their actions. Mitchell claims that Lowry was given his allottedarnountoftir.netospeak as stated in the constitution. During· the election meeting Lowry was incorrectly quoting people, according 1to Mitchell. Mitchell felt it was necessary to interrupt Lowry because it was unfair to misquote. He also claims there. were more than enough full members at the me~ting to hold elections. According to Mitchell, Goldberg was a full member of WRUC at the time of the elections, even though he was in Israel. He called Goldberg on the phone to let him know that someone was running against him. Therefore, according to Mitchell, Gold- berg's position of general manager was legitimate, The Student Forum is presently investigating WRUC; The Finance Committee is going to audit the radio station and settle the situation. . Applications for the following committees will be available Thursday, April 15th in th~ ~tudent ~c­ tivities Office. They JllUSt -be returned to that office no later than Fr~day, April 23rd. The ap- pointments will be effective for the '82-'83 academic year. Anyone interested in being a chairperson for committees 11-17 (see list below) please be sure to indicate such desire on your application. 1. Committee on Committees 2. Finance Conunittee 3. Student Affairs Council 4. Academic Affairs Council 5. Admissions Liaison Committee 6. Planning and Priorities Committee 1. Union_University Representative 8. Residence Life Committee 9. Athletic Liaison Committee 10. Research and Grant Sub-Council 11. Student Conduct Committee 12. Concert Committee 13. Social Committee 14. Elections Con:unittee 15. Film Connnittee 16. Speakers Forum 17. Traffic and Pet Court DESCRIPTION OF COMMITTEES 1. CoC: Recommends to the Student Forwn all committee appointments as well as club con- stitutions. 2. Finance Committee: Recommends to the Forum the allocation of student activities funds. In addition, the committee is responsible for the monitoring of such budgets. , 3. Stlldent Affairs Councn: Is responsible for continuously reviewing policy and formulating and recomniending plans for student housing, dining services, student center, health services, counseling services, career counseling and placement and for setting policy for student conduct. 4. Academic Affairs Council: Composed of the Deans of Undergraduage and Graduate Curriclllwns, 7 faculty members and students, this council reviews the curriculum of -the College, making recommendations for course and program changes, as well as reviewing such things as the Liberal Learning Program and requirements for all majors. . 5. Uaison Committee for Admissions: A member of this committee serves as a student representative to the Admissions committee. This committee, which consists of faculty apd ad- ministrators, reviews admissions procedure and makes recommendations to the Dean of Admissions and to the President of the College. . 6. Planning & Priorities: Reviews and recommends to the President policies concerning long-range planning, the establishment of college priorities and the preparation of annual budgets. Students should be interested in the future of the school. 7. UnionUniversity Representative: One student represents Union Colleg'e m open discussions with representatives from Albany Law, Albany Medical College, Albany College of P~arrna,cy and Dudley Observat()ry. . 8. Residence Ufe Committee: Makes recommendations to the Director of Residence Life on Residence Hall policy. In addition, the committee is directly involved in the rooms lottery (spring). 9. Uais«>n Committee for Atbletics: Members shall advise the Director of Athletics on all matterS of concern to the athletic program, including inter-collegiate athletic programs, club sports, in• tramural and'recreational programs, women's programs and instruction in athletic .skills and sports. Tb..is committee participates in discussions of general poijcy, in a review of program needs, in the analysis of budgetary priorities, and in bringing the concerns of the student body to the Director of, Athletics. · ... 10. Research and Grant Sub-Council: Provides student input to a faculty-administrative board in determining who iS to receive such grants. , 11. Student Conduct Committee: Conducts hearings and reconunends disciplinat·y action to the , Administration in cases of student miSconduct. 12. Concert Committee: Elans and organizes major campus-sponsored concerts. . 13. Social Committee: Plans and organizes major campus social events including Winter Carnival and Camp Union. 14. Elections Commtttee: Administers all campus-wide elections. 15. Film Committee: Plans and organizes all films to be shownon campus. 16 . .Speakers Forum: Contracts for speakers and organizes all such events on campus. . 17. Traffic and Pet Court: Hears all appeals of traffic violations and-or pet. violations (i.e., pets in dorms). For further information please contact a member of the Committee on Committees.

general time of .in at the cted. In called present. !\'8S ·support \it's to spend not school's s call is for claims ven his speak meeting quoting Mitchell. to it was He also than at the at even He phone to was Gold- general is WRUC; is station . - Ac- ap- con- In and the ad- with on in- in the of- in to the , val in OONOORDIENSIS, .April15, 198$3 Page 3 f~atur~s Seminar Attendance: I Term Abroaders Return The Elite Few? By DAVE FITZGERALD Staff to Spain, Israel, or Greece. - (All of which have a wanner climate than Schenectady.) foreign country takes three courses just like the students that stayed in the U.S. The three courses are taught in English usually by a member of the Union faculty, so things are not that different. One difference in the courses taken is that they integrate the different surroundings of the foreign country into them. For example part of the term abroad to Greece required that the student take a course in Greek Architecture. This course in- cludes field trips to such places asthe Pantheon. In this way the student not only is able to learn interesting facts about ancient Greek civilization but also By DEBRAM0SES Staff An old adage among Union College students is, \there is not~g to do em campus.\ Though this statement is due, in part, to student laziness, it stems also from unawareness. Although opportunities of every color and description abound at Union, the individual must consciously seek them out. It could be argued that the student who seriously wants to take advantage of ,these occasions, will; it is not unreasonable that the student assume respoil· sibility for his own good time and for his own intellectual advancement. However, all too often, even the interested student is hampered in his search. Many upcoming events reach the student body through this newspaper; · others never reach the · paper. Campus happenings are not publicized as widely as they could be; notices remain within the department to which they pertain. These annoWicements invite the participation of all students; a good number of students never see them. And, professors do not ,promote inter· departmental cooperation. Thus, \Science\ majors go to \Science\ lectures, \English\ majors to hear poets and authors. Of course, it is only natural to pursue activities within one's area of interest; however, I do not believe that · we have ~copte _ so. iSolated . within our particular fields that we negate or relegate to the insignificant all others. If this were the case, Union students would be quite an insipid bunch. I don't think they are. Sometimes the esoteric nature of the material precludes all-campus par- ticipation or interest. A lecture nurture controversy, would most likely appeal to a wide range of students, regardless of course study. (The controversy will be the topic of a forum discussion on Friday, Apri116, at 7:30p.m., in SS016.) When seminars are conducted on a level which all students can understand, or when the subject matter is not exclusively per- tinent to a particular group, announcements should be distributed to an departments, so that all students can take advantag~ .of them. While the majority of Union students were here in Schenectady studying and trying hard to survive whatever cold temper.atures, .snow, freezing rain, or other \goodies\ Old Man Wi·nter inflicted upon them, a few lucky students had the opportunity to escape to a country abroad. These students participated in one of Union's, Term Abroad programs. The choices of programs abroad one could take last term allowed the students to choose from trips From a random survey of those students who went abroad one could come to the general conclusion that having the opportunity to go to a foreign country with fellow students was a great experience. One pleased traveler said \The trip would not have been half as good If I had gone without people from Union.'' Despite popular opinion on campus to the contrary, those who went abroad for a term say that they did do some work. Each- student while in the I Blame It On Union! 'I allowed to do some sightseeing to popular attractions. As for the difficulty of the courses abroad one student said \It was not as difficult as if we had been at Union but we learned many By ERIC RUBEN Staff Sean and I were friends in college before we joiiled the .agency. We often joked about what it would be like to work as agents but of course we are very serious about it now. Our last assignment was the toughest I've had. I didn't know if we would make it out alive. When I got the assignment slip from our drop-off man, I took it to Sean back at the apartment where he was waiting and we studied it. Of course I can't repeat it word for word because of national security but the slip told us that we were to walk down State Street in Schenectady and be prepared for an 41 incident\ at any time. We were concerned because to the agency an in- .------- 1 cident could be anything from an agent with a hang•nail to the assasination of world leaders. We grabbed our coats and headed for State St. Like all agents, we enjoy walking in Ollf three-piece, pin- striped suits, hiding behind our sun glasses. I felt secure due to the presence of my government issue thirty.-eight. I also knew t~at if there was any trouble, Sean was a- good man to have with me. Suddently we saw it. I knew this had to be it. Of course.! A threat to the future of the free world, apple pie and Chevrolet. She was in the open, but we could take her. She stood about five-nine. She looked frail, but any agency man could tell that she was tough, in spite of her vericose veins. That red was selling propaganda in the street and thank God we were there to stop her ... for good! Sean went up ahead of me to make sure we were right. We were. Agency men always are. She was· spouting her radical ideas on stopping military growth and feeding the people. Our job was clear. When I first entered the agency, I studied martial arts under a master wh<t can only be named as \Klink\. Summoning the red, white and blue forces within me, I left that woman a bloody pulp in the name of capitalism. We then turned her over to the Feds. They took her in for \further questioning\. Although Sean and I were exhausted, we cannot rest yet. We must keep on fighting for the American way of life. Beware you commie, pinko fags! There are still blue-blooded Americans ready to take you on. --~-------------, To help you I invest in yourself ... thing~ thal you just can't read about such as customs and really learning how to speak the language fluently. Youlearn the language quicker when you are exposed to it every day.\ Part of the learning ex- perience of the Term Abroad program depends on where and how the student lives. For most of the programs the students live with families in the country that they visit. Most .say that this is a good experience because it gives you, \a good idea of what\ it is like to live in that country.'' The students that stayed with families say that the families are very kind and that they have made some very good friendships. The people who went to Greece had a different type of living experience because they lived in apartments. Some who went to Greece feel that having apartments made their ex- perience different.\ It gave you the feeling of being on your own in a foreign country.\ about spectroscopy, for - 1heC.W.R>st Sumn18Y\qgz 'Sqll etin 1s ~adyNow. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Currently the Terms Abroad Office is taking applications for those who wotlld like to go abroad during next year. Besi.<J.es Greece, Spain, and Israel there are opportunities to go to England, France and other countries. It is cle&r that all involved found his-her ex- ·· perience abroad with other Union students and a Union professol.\ to be very worthwhile and fun. \The trip was so much fun you wouldn't believe it.\ When a student who went to Greece was asked to describe her term abroad, one could see her face glow and her eyes twinkle as she fondly remembered her days in the land of Plato and Aristotle, and then went on to give a . very exuberant description of her experiences and said \Everyone at Union should not miss the chance to go on one of the many terms abroad.\ example, would probably be understood aad appreciated only by those within the area of chemistry. It would not be inappropriate ,to keep an- nouncements of this nature within a specific department. But, a subject such as \The Possibj.lity .of a Socio-biology,\ which addresses the nature- BUDGETS If you have not yet received \ budget material for next year you can pick ·it up in Student Activities Budgets Clre due no later than Apri·l 27th I Faculty members interested- in being Orientation Advisors, call Daniel O'Neill at 382·9366 or Adam Brodsky at 372-0:172 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I -I I I I I I c _ w _ Post offers summer programs you can value:. a full range of courses, outstanding.resident and 9uest faculty, f~ex1ble schedules, excellent facilities on Long Islands most beauttful campus, only minutes from New York City and fine recreation areas. · More than 1300 undergraduate and graduate courses, intensive institutes and workshops, Festival of the Arts (workshops, master classes, performances). :Cay and evening sessions begin May 17, June 21, July 26 weekend College classes begio June 19, 20, 26, 27, 28 TO GET YOUR COPY, phone (516) 299·2431 or mail coupon today. I Summer courses are 1 , also available at: I Suf.folk Branch Campus, Brentwood, L.l. Summer Sessions Office . ~ LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY w c.w.nostcenter . 1 ,(516)273-5112 I . rGAEENVALE, NEW YORK 11548 An Equal Opportunity/ Aff~rmallve Action lnstiiUtlon Please send me the Summer 1982 Bulletin. c Rockland Campus I (at Dominican College) I (914) 359-72oo Name --. ·- Address --- - -- -- ·--------~- -·----I I City, State. Zip ____ ---- - . .I --------------------- Interested • 1n writing features? Contact Judi at 6155-

Page 4 OONOORDIENSIS, April 15, 198! \ . . ' ,',I • • t ' • ' -· . ' . r • ' • ' . .; . · .. ~rts & Culture But It's Southern Rock ... ByBOBFOX Arts Editor Louisiana's Le Roux sh()r- tened their name to simply Le Roux in 1978. A .few years and four albums ·later they have released last Safe Place. With this new release, Le Roux assure themselves again that they have made a distinct mark in the annals of southern rock. Le Roux's contribution is unique in so11them rock; they sound a bit more diverse than other bandB. There is a certain pop element present, alm()st bordering ()n easy listening, that softens the hard rock edges and makes Le Ro11x's music ac- cessible to a wide audience. Le Roux is undeniably a southern mck band. They have appeared wi:th numerous larger-name bands, and played in the 1979 \Mardi Gras in the Superdome\ in New Orleans and the 1980 Volunteer Jam ·in NashvHle. The band even played at the 1980 Inaugural Ball for ·Louisiana Governor Dave Treen in Baton Rouge. The new albwn is good, if you like mellow southern rock. It has its share of ballad-like tunes about lost love and so on. Unfortunately, the writing is relatively superficial and the songs don't come across as having universal meaning. The music tends to cover for what the lyrics lack. On the whole, the vocals are of extremely high quality. The ove~~ll sound is rather full, with acoustic guitars, keyboards and horns supplementing the usual electric instruments. Included in this albwn is a remake of the Buffalo Springfield song \Rock 'n' Holl Woman.\ The vocals sound surprisingly similar, with an impressive imitation of Stephen Stills and crisp harmonies iil the background. One of the- best songs on the albwn is \You Know How Those Boys Are,\ a catchy, upbeat tune that has potential for airplay {probably on AM stations). Le Roux has done a good job with this album, but to be honest, I never had much use for mellow southern rock, or for southern rock in general. 2nd Annual Orchestra Run May 2 The 2nd annual Albany Symphony Orchestra Run will take place on Sundp.y, May 2, 1982 beginning at 11 :{)0 a.m. in front of the Palace Theatre, 19 Clinton Avenue. As in last year's race, runners will compete in male and female categories according to age: 12 and under, 13-19, 20-29, 30-39, 40-49, 50 and over. Prizes for top runners will be awarded .at the finish line. Water will be provided near the halfway point for all runners and race officials will be givlng splits during the race so racers can pace themselves. Soda, fruit, and other refreshments will be provided throughout the day. Spectators are invited to bring a picnic lunch along and enjoy the day outside. Anyone interested in running in the ASO \Run 82\ should call the Albany Symphony Office at 518- 465-4755 to request an entry blank. The registration fee is $3.50 and entry blanks must be received by the Symphony Office no later than April 23rd. On Saturday, May 1st fr-om 12:00 noon to 4:00p.m., runners may pick up their numbers at the ASO office, 19 Clinton A venue. The first 200 runners to register for \Run 82\ will receive a T-shirt. Many people are involvetl in putting together · \Run 82\ and this year's . sponsors include Vanguard- Albany Symphony Orchestra, The Union College Men's Glee Club Is Pleased To Announce THE UNION COLLEGE MEN'S GLEE CLUB Hugh Allen Wilson, Direcor TH EWELLESLEY COLLEGE CHOIR William A.. Herrmann, Director Susanne Peck, Soprano Karen Lykes, Mezzo Soprano Ken Fitch, Countertenor Ray DeVoll, Tenor John Osborn, Bass Soloists with the Boston Camerata Scott Trexler, Organist THE BOSTON PROFESSIONALOR- CHESTRA Robert Brink, Concertmaster IN PERFORMANCE OF: Two Handel Oratorios: \0 Praise the Lord with One Consent,\ \Ode for the Bir- thday of Queen Anne.\ Sunday, April18, 4 p.m. In Memorial Chapel, Union Coli. Ticket info: 370-6201 $3 reg., $1 students Union Community- FREE Avail. Carnegla Box Office Ruch Distributors, Budweiser Light, Price Chopper, Pearl Grant Richmans, Albany International, and the State Bank of Albany. For more information about \Run 82\ call the Albany Symphony Office f!t 465-4755. This Summer, CorneD What better place to be than far above C(iyuga' s waters as you improve your writing skills. work with computers. participate in a pre-law pro- gram. or take a course in conceptual drawing? Nowhere else can you learn in the company of so diverse a group of faculty and students in such a uniquely attractive setting of hills. lakes. gorges and waterfalls. At Cornell. you can fulfill requirements. ·ac- celerate your degree program. or simply take advantage of the opportunity to study those in- triguing subjects that you have always put off. Request an Announcement and see for yourself all the reasons why Cornell is the place you should be this summer. Tuition is $14 5 per semester credit or less. Cornell University Summer Session, Bl3 lves Hall. Ithaca. New York 14853 Student Environmental Alliance Presents EARTH WEEK 1982: April 19-23 MON: 7: 30 p.m. Strauss Lounge Lecture and FH m \To Breed or Not to Breed 11 WED: 7:30p.m., SEA Room, 4th fl. Carnegie Letter Writing Party Materi.als Provided, Refreshments Served THURS: 7:30p.m., Strauss Lounge Film and Discussion · \The Land Nobody Knows~~ Speaker, Norman Von Valkenburgh Director of Land & Forest, DEC Late p.m. Sleepout in Jackson's Gardens F R I: 6:30a.m., Sunrise Breakfast Food and Beverages provided l: 30 p.m.- Recycling For more info. call Tol')\'l or Brad at 377-3670 NO NUKfS DA,Y MAY 9th At Skidmore :College 11 am to 6 pm for more information please con,fact Weldon Turner at 372;.0534 Announcing The No. 1 Arts Guild· Meeting Wednesday, April 21 at 4 p.m. Place TBA - look for bulleti.ns t.f there a_re any questions please contact Showne McCord (Box 2139) or Tom Higgins (11 00) ~~~~~ Featuring an Eclectic Menu serving Lunch - Cocktails ___, Dinner Before & After Theatre Dining Mon. & Tues. (I unch, cocktails, light fare) Wed. thru Sat. (also serving dinner) SUN DAY. \Strawberry Champa·gne Brunch\ 11 a.m.-3 p.m. E11trees from $2.95- including champagne \Sunday Family Style Suppers\ 3 p.m.-7 p.m. - , Includes: soup, sa lad, biscuits, vegetables, petato, baked ham, roast beef, fried chicken, coffee, tea or milk, and \mini\ ice cream sun- \ Qa~. All for: $7 95 adults $4 50 childre11 PRIVATE PARTIES , Reservations: 393-0439 ''On the Ice\ Center City Schenectady Music for Microprocessor Concerts co-sponsored by the Electrical Engineering and Arts Departments will be held in Room 202 of the Arts Building ,· at 7:30 p.m. _ They will last about se¥enty minutes. MONDAY~ APRIL 19th: Ron Kuivila, an artist- in-residence at Wesleyan University, gives concerts and arranges installatior~s with elec- tronic instruments of his own design. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21st: Joel Chadabe, who studied with El.liot Carter at Yale University and afterwards in Europe, composes for a portable computer sy.stem and performs with it.

i ll. lS lfacf ~tring st- •es ~c- ho nd lie OONOOBDIENBIS, April 16, 198S Page 5 ~rts &.Culture Spring Musica·l Underway The preparation for Moun- tebanks' spring musical \Company a comedy, is underway. The play focuses on Robert: handsome, charming, and a bachelor, but not .for long if his friends have their way. Robert's bachelorhood is threatened by the matchmaking attempts of five not so happily married couples, who provide him with a number .of various romantic interests. The part of Robert is being played by Stephen Gatta, a senior applied mathematics major. The married couples are played by Paul Girsdansky, Judybeth Greene, Glenn Krutoff, Steven Lanza, Robin Molena, Bob Pavacia, Diane Sadak, Felicia Salvacion, Anna Tucker~ and Mark Wasserman. ,Jodi Cohen, Jennifer Paston. and Patty Winters are the women in Robert's life. Lending their singing voices to the company are Naomi Blank, .Tracey Kaufman, and Gale Simonds. The cast is under the ex- perienced and talented direc- tion of Professor Morris Kaufman, a member of the RPI A World Premiere: arts faculty. Prof. Kaufman has directed a multitude of shows, including various musicals, as well as a previous renditon of \Company.\ Prof. Kaufman bas expressed interest and enthusiasm in his first ex- perience working in the round. He is planning on giving .the show a new twist, setting the story Une in the 19ZO's. Assisting Prof. Kaufman is Irene Fassler, a junior . :psychology major who has recently transferred here. Irene feels that the musical is a large undertaking for all those in- volv.ed, nevertheless she is confident that the outcome will be successful. Mountebanks will present \Company\ on Thurs., Fri., & Sat. evenings from May 20-29 \Feathers\ Capital Repertory Company will present the world premiere of \Feathers\ by Texas playwright Jeanne Darnell as its third offering this season. with Neil Simon on \The Prisoner of Second Avenue.'' She also played in the popular television soap opera \Texas.\ A Ni~ht of Cabaret \Feathers directed by . Susan Lehman, features Chris Weatherford, James Goodwin Rice, Richard Zobel, Kate Kelly, Louis Schaefer and Stephen Hytner. It will. be performed April 17 - May 2 at the company's new home, the Market Theatre in doWntown Albany. Set in the Texas Panhandle during World War II, \Feathers is a study of the triumph of romanticism over conventionalism, of an in- dividual's idealism over the confinements imposed by her social and cultural milieu. Director Susan Lehman is a veteran of the theater and has worked with Mike Nichols on two Broadway productions and \Feathers\ is the .first full length play by Jeanne Darnell, a former English teacher who has studied at the Dallas Theater Center. She is now completing the second of three works in a series about the fictional community of J aybuckle in the Texas Panhandle. The play will be performed at 8 p.m. Tuesdays through Saturdays, and 2:30 p.m. Sundays, April 17 - May 2. Tickets, which range from $5 to $11, depending on performal)ce and seating, are available at the Community Box Office, at the Market Theatre, 111 North Pearl St., Albany, or by calling 462-4534. Student and group discounts are available. By EMILY HAFT Staff Last Tuesday night, Cabaret presented the students of Union College with a show comprised of two bands; \The Blues Brothers\ and \Academic Warning\ with the show M.C.'d by Billy Brod The first band \The Blues Brothers\ is an assortment of brass musicians, a· piano player, a. guitarist and two clever singers, surprisingly talented at imitating the John Belusbi-Dan Aykroyd team of Saturday Night Live. The group performed severaL of the now defunct duo's popular tunes, and did the team nothing but pra-ise. Even slight physical similarities between the originals and the imita~ions I made the performance all the more convincing. The individual band members performed like pros, not novices. The jazzy brass melodies had a smooth rythm which was clearly an example of a lot of serious rehearsal time. All in all, their per- formance was commendable and only a positive tribute to the late John Belushi. M.C. Bill Brod should definitely stick to engineering. Admittedly, the job he filled was a tough one; not many people can appear in front of their peers and cronies and perfonn perfectly. Though his jokes were typical and his presentation of them a bit stagnant and stiff, he managed to elicit a few hearty laughs from the somewhat inebriated crowd (of which there was a sizable one). ·-· .WE DELIVER-· 374-1888 The second band, Academic Warning, was a pseudo-new wave-1 don't know w:hat else band. Their sound was a seemingly poor imitation of the popular form of new music. Unlike the bands that receive recognition for such music, their form lacked originality. Be . it their delivery of their abilities to perform together, it\ just didn't pass the muster of a critical crowd. Even their rendition of Carlene Carter's Ring Of Fire seemed to simp}y be a slower version and not a particularly individual in- terpretation. They are de.finitely deserving of some credit as they are all somewhat talented individuals. Their music, with something extra to make their sound distinctive, could definitely be beneficial to their reputation. ' 464 State St. Schenectady, NY F~..#\_ § Zeta Beta Tau's 3rd Annual § § § I Ugliest M I I an On ~ § §- I Campus ~ ~ Vote for your choice of U.M.O. C. I 8 April 19-27 N § ·1oc per vote; vote at Carnegie, West & Hale ~ ~ PRIZES include: A portable AM-FM stereo cassette player- 8 s Sg recorder, an AM-FM colck radio, kegs of beer, dinners for 5t R iwo, scotch, wine, champagne, a \special gift\ from Orion's 3 ~ Boutique, U.M.O.C. shirts, cases of beer and much, much S S more!!! R S Winners will be announced at the § § § § 3rd Annual ZBT U.M.O.C. Band Party § § on Tuesday, April 27 § § The Alumni Gym § § featuring § ~ I § B_LOTTO § § sss S $3 in advance, $4 at the door S S . Get your tickets now! ! ! S ~ All U.M.O.C. proceeds benefit the ~ ·L.,.,~~~!:;1,..~oooooJ

Page 6 CONOORDIENSIS, April 15, 198! Editorials Letters Guide Rebuked Union's reputation has suffered a considerable blow at the hands of \The New York Times Selective Guide to Colleges.\ From the evidence collected so far, it would ap}Jear that those in charge of the project acted irresponsibly when collecting an<l presenting materials. Student questionnaires, integral to the evaluation process. were haphazardly distributed during a vacation period. Obvious techilical flaws are apparent. But most dlsheartenl:ng is the twisting and turning of phrases and words to make negative im- plications. One would expect an institution like Th.e Times to be professional enough not to resort to such petty in· sinuations. It is true that The Times acted in a publishing capacity, but their name is printed right on the front cover of the guide. Union is far from perfect. Her negative points should be included in an objective evaluation. But they should be presented in a clear, concise and documented manner. Positive points about facilities, curriculum and admissions are made only to be followed by negative limitations and drawbacks. The end result is that the subject in totality appears in a poor light. The Times' move to withdraw its name from the title is commended. But the damage has been done. One should not underestimate the importance of a school's reputation. Reputation is not only important for admissions. Graduate studies and post-collegiate work are both affected by this abstract notion. In today's competitive world, Union an<l her students. need all the advantages possible. The New York Times, by her irresponsible publication, has poten· Ually harmed those mentioned. Perhaps a mountain is being made of a molehill, but Concordiensis urges the publishers of the guide to correct their errors immediately. Additionally, future guides should take more care in determining the criteria for judgment and also the application of those criteria. Removal Sought At Monday's Student Forum meeting, it became apparent that our student leaders are hesitant to charge senior representative Kim Nogay with \gross neglect ... of office.\ (Constitution of the Student Body 1981·1982, p. 44) Representative Nogay missed 75 percent of the Forum's meetings (as reported in Union Views; March 6, p. 2) during the fall and winter terms. Nogay's negligence soared to new heights this spring as she is now in Austria on a term abroad. Some of the Forum members at Monday's meeting joked that future meetings would be held in Vienna. Although they may find it amusing, it would be nice if they policed their own organization as well as they do the others for which they are responsible. For example, they recently exercised their power as publisher to remove Paul Grossman as Editor-in- Chief of this newspaper for his \irresponsible\ ac- tion. Nogay's irresponsibility has continued for the entire year and what has our Forum done? Absolutely nothing. Will anything be done in the future? As one member put it, ''maybe we should just blow it off ... I'll put it back in my file for a week.'' .Another felt that since spring term had already begun, the entire issue should simply be ignored. However, one member expressed deep concern over Nogay's absence. A senior is desperately needed to fulfill Nogay's responsibilities on the Student Affairs Council. Nogay was supposed to chair the subcommittee on Para- academics this term. It seems our Forum is confused and undecided about what \should\ be done. They plan to have a new election (see Forum announcement on page 1). But, at the same time, they are unw!lling to undertake impeachment proceedings against Nogay. If our Student Forum would kindly dust off their copy of the Student Body Constitution, they would find, probably to their surprise, that the document ~, outlines the procedure for officer removal (see sections 10 and 11 on page 44 of the Student Hand- book). Charges are brought against the represen- tative by the For1:1m. These are then submitted to the Conduct Committee which determines the verdict within ten days. Upon impeachment, a special election is held to replace the vacant office. As our student government leaders must realize, they must remove Nogay before they hold a ~<special election • • for her replacement. To do otherwise would be \gross negligence\ on the part of the Student Forum.- It would make a farce of the student body's constitution as well as the constitutions of th~ clubs and committees the Forum is empowered to oversee. We sincerely hope that at the next Forum meeting our \responsible\ leaders abide by our constitution and initiate impeachmen~_ proceedings against Senior! Rtptesfjltative Kim Nogay. Concordy · ---· ~--m·-l·kQ·Ak •• :. · :~----~ · ··donlt-bel,ong\''( .. ,.,thJI&-···OIIIl····'·\'·~(~~~&n:lt-e.s¥l'\'Latin,,.,,AmEWC8.fL-.\I .. ,,. · • .- .•..• '\\ ··\· _,., .. , ''\ \--- -1! · ibnollr4bellll··•Otlih-·,,..&,.··-\\''''\'\ .. ,,,,,,.,,,,\'''\''N'\'\'~lJiUii,e3,;·-•'''\-'\J'\'l'Ule.t:3~A. tibe--rat· still attract serious students ~n the coat taihtof that impres$ion. .lbaveJJbAr~4c.tbe -~U:v.eu.tl:vlt reasons were ----::~;-z.,,.,;; «·· ·, '\tb~ the~ {$ l)..()t a degr~ nffii>PAri Russian ·\4espite what anyone declares •. ~a). the-.sixAerms of ...... . ~ . Once again, I wish to extend a sincere pU;blic thank you t;o Paul. Rachelt and the .. at~f.~r •-- their invaluable assistance during ~ first-twQ terms. of the y~ar. ·· . .JJi .... ,,A9w·•·· . . ... !~ .. Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor News Editor News Consultant Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Dianne Pavacic A.J. Brodsky Naomi Blank Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Copy Editor D.C. Owens National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Women's Sports Editor Kathy Bentley Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist David Neiblum Staff Julie Abelman, Joey Beckerman, Norman Bimbach, Marcy Butstiner, Thomas Ching, David Fitzgerald, P .S. Girsdansky, DoQg Landon, Peter Mohr, Debra Moses, Jennife~ Paston, Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, Michael Sharp, Emily Haft, Judie Steinhardt, Business Staff Subscriptions Photo Staff Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne Evelyn Gurdin E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshe1man Keith Dean, Janet Guiliano, Mary MarUn, Pam Meyers, Lisa Stem · CON~()J\DI~NSI$ i$ p,ubli~hed .. every Thursday by the studffi~ body of _Un10l'l_ C~llege, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New Ym~ · 12308;. Public~tions Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Bo~ · 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Pos~ Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United JStates~. ~ · ' t~ONcOit·DIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), · ~nd utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB).

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, April15, 198~ Editorials Letters Guide Rebuked Union's reputation has suffered a considerable blow at the hands of \The New York Times Selective Guide to Colleges.'' From the evidence collected so far, it would apJ;ear that those in charge of the project acted irresponsibly when collecting and presenting materials. Student questionnaires, integral to the evaluation process. were haphazardly distributed during a vacation period. Obvious technical flaws are apparent. But most disheartening is the twisting and turning of phrases and words to make negative im- plications. One would expect an institution like The Times to be professional enough not to resort to such petty in- sinuations. It is true that The Times acted in a publishing capacity, but their name is printed right on the front cover of the guide. Union is far from perfect. Her negative points should be included ln an objective evaluation. But they should be presented in a clear, concise and documented manner. Positive points about facilities, curriculum and admissions are made only to be followed by negative limitations and drawbacks. The end result is that the subject in totality appears in a poor light. The Times· move to withdraw its name from the title is commended. But the damage has been done. One should not underestimate the importance of a school's reputation. Reputation is not only important for admissions. Graduate studies and post-collegiate work are both affected by this abstract notion. In today's competitive world, Union and her students need all the advantages possible. The New York Times, by her irresponsible publication, has poten- tially harmed those mentioned. Perhaps a mountain is being made of a molehill, but Concordiensis urges the publishers of the guide to correct their errors immediately. Additionally, future guides should take more care in determining the criteria for judgment and also the application of those criteria. Re~noval Sought At Monday's Student Forum meeting, it became apparent that our student leaders are hesitant to charge senior representative Kim Nogay with \gross neglect . . . of office.\ (Constitution of the Student Body 1981-1982, p. 44) Representative Nogay missed 75 percent of the Forum's meetings (as reported_in Union Views; March 6, p. 2) during the fall and winter terms. Nogay's negligence soared to new heights this spring as she is now in Austria on a term abroad. Some of the Forum members at Monday's meeting joked that future meetings would be held in Vienna. Although they may find it amusing, it would be nice if they policed their own organization as well as they do the others for which they are responsible. For example, they recently exercised their power as publisher to remove Paul Grossman as Editor-in· Chief of this newspaper for his \irresponsible\ ac· tion. Nogay's irresponsibility has continued for the entire year and what has our Forum done? Absolutely nothing. Will anything be done in the future? As one member put it, ·'maybe we should just blow it off ... I' 11 put it back in my file for a week.'' Another felt that since spring term had already begun, the entire issue should simply be ignored. However, one member t'Xpressed deep concern over Nogay's absence. A .senior is desperately needed to fulfill Nogay's responsibilities on the Student Affairs Council. Nogay was supposed to chair the subcommittee on Para- academics this term. It seems our Forum is confused and undecided about what \should\ be done. They plan to have a new election (see Forum announcement on page 1). But, at the same time, they are unwilling to undertake impeachment proceedings against Nogay. If our Student Forum would kindly dust off their copy of the Student Body Constitution, they would find, probably to their surprise, that the document outlines the procedure for officer removal (see sections 10 and 11 on page 44 of the Student Hand- book). Charges are brought against the represen- tative by the Forum. These are then submitted to the Conduct Committee which determines the verdict within ten days. Upon impeachment, a special election is held to replace the vacant office. As our student government leaders must realize, they must remove Nogay before they hold a ''special election\ for her replacement. To do otherwise would be \gross negligence\ on the part of the Student Forum. It would make a farce of the student body's constitution as well as the constitutions of the clubs and committees the Forum is empowered to oversee. We sincerely hope that at the next Forum meeting our \responsible\ leaders abide by our constitution and initiate impeachmen~ proceedings against Senior! RJ)p:resentative Kim Nogay. .. __,. , Letters __,J , Concordy Thanked To the Editor: I am pleased to report that the efforts of the Unton College community contributed to the defeat in Congress of any fur- ther federal student aid cuts for next year! Paul Grossman, Rachel Mandel and the entire staff of the Concordy, for the fall and winter terms, deserve our con;ratulations for their endless commitment and dedication in covering all aspects of the federal aid cuts. Their efforts made our a great deal easier. The battle is far from over. Deeper cuts are threatened for · 1983-84. I will need to call upon the editorial staff of next year's Concordy for assistance, and I hope that our combined efforts in the future will be as .effective as theY have been this year. Once again, I wish to extend a sincere public thank you ~ Paul, Rachel, and the staff for their invaluable assistance during the first two terms of the year. Sincerely, Robert J. Massa Director of Financial Aid What Have They Done Now? To all students, concerned students, etc. : The travesties of this past weekend can't go unnoticed. . Time has come for the school to come down hard on Rich Biegen and Jeff Mitchell - organizers of the Argentine takeover of the Balkland Islands. Mitchell and Biegen are a constant threat to the well being of Union College. This is exemplified in their in· . volvement with the snowstorm · that recently hit tile com- munity. Indeed, there is reason to believe that Jeff Mitchell and · Rich Biegen are responsible for · the gross male-female ratio at Union. And of course, who can forget the \Awesome Banana Party,'' which was to take place in Alumni Gym on April 3. Ostensibly, Jeff and Rich claimed that they were trying to promote new campus talent and · give Union students a chance to dance and enjoy thelllSelves, but we know better than to believe such nons~mse. The . hideous motive of the spon$Qrs of this ''A we some Banana · Party\ is clear. They J)lanned to have the party cancelled~ so they could have the satisfaction of losing several hundred · dollars of their own rnont}y. My source in Radio Free China stated that although Jeff · and Rich were not planning to sell beer {beer was fre~), and only 90 tickets were available (which is the seattng capacity of Cabaret) and the college · security was notified as soon as approval was granted, the · \Awesome Cabaret\ wa$ cancelled because Jeff Mitchell failed to get approval from the ~weriean Nazi Party. Well, that just goes to show , you. It's always one thing or · another. If :a brick doesn 1 t fall on your head, sure enough there are Jeff and Rich trying to have · a good party for the Union · student body. It should be cleat to both the students and ad· ministrati()n that people who care about social life on campus don't belong on this camplll). Throw them ()Ut! Sincerely, A Concerned Biology Major Vadim Edward Nudelman Not So liberal To the Editor: It is indeed disappointing that a college once deemed suf· ficient in liberal arts, should still attract serious students on the coat tails ()f that impression. I have shared the discovery that the candy melting in my mouth is not so refreshing nor as worthy as the packaging had promised. At this point, we all wish tbat we could spit out the nasty bit of treachery and just suffer with its after--taste. But it's too late! We've already fallen· in love with a girl who prefers us to smell of this meretricious M & M. So we grumble,barf and bear it. Voila le grumbling. I recall those days of seniordom, when I was forever thumbing through that om· nipotent Barron's Profiles catalog until I stumbled upon the Union College profile. Under programs of study It reads, ''The college confers the B.A. and B.S. degrees. It offers the following majors: American Studies, Bio-Engineering, Biology, Chemistry, Chinese, Classics, Comparative Com· munist Studies, Computer Science, Economics, Engineering (Civil, Electrical, Mechanical), English~ Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor News Editor News Consultant Featmes Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Environmental Studies, Fine Arts, German, History, Humanities, Industrial Economics. Latin American Studies, Liberal Arts, Management Studies. Mathematics~ Philosophy. Physics~ Political Science, Psychology 1 Public Service Studies, Romance Languages~ Russian, Social Science, Socia-~ engineering, Sociology and Urban Studies.\ Whoeve~. compiled that list, certainly glorified the Modern Language department as it exists today. Since when have there been majors offered in Chinese and Russian? After my first year nere, I was advised to transfer it I was sincere about pursuing a Russian degree. The reasons were well founded: 1) there is not a degree offered in Russian despite what anyone declares. 2) the six terms of .. fered of the Ru,ssian language are taught by the same teacher, whieh in the case of learning a language is invariably tragic. One is subject to the same accent. dialect, vocabulary, teaching methods and disposition. That was a dismal day of reckoning for me. A somber disillusioned freshman, I wandered the campus in a vertiginous haze, seeking my stray major. I was angry, I felt cheated, betrayed. Flashbacks of my admissions interview recalled my aggressive in· terrogation of the Modern Language department and how it was quelled by smiles and cheery promises of satisfaction. Very smoothly done ... and after confirming that two others were assured a Russian major, I daresay that the admissions snare was--is practiced. So please put yot1rselves -in our battered shoes for a second. There are only two full years of Russian offered. For others and Dianne Pavacic A.J. Brodsky Naomi Blank Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Copy Editor D.C. Owens National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Women's Sports Editor Kathy Bentley Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist David Neiblum Staff Julie Abelman, Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Marcy Burstiner, Thomas Ching, David Fitzgerald, P .S. Girsdansky, Doug Landon, Peter Mohr, Debra Moses, Jennifer Paston, Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, Michael Sharp, Business Staff Subscriptions PhotoStaff Emily Haft, Judie Steinhardt, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne Evelyn Gurdin E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshelman Keith Dean, Janet Guiliano, Mary Martin, Pam Meyers, Usa Stern CONQORDIENSI$ is p,ublished every Thursday by the stud~nt body of Union C?llege, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New Y~ 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box: 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United · ~~~DIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). ~--------------------~~~·--------------------------------------------

s~m:~~*:ffm~~k . , .FlilEt·' sto:y1 ltlt~N.:t,lw~ . M:ican,* ,A£tL\\\ dJ«<@c~»-•z, ~hl:iM,,, i~iJ!~t\*\ emee uag~ •. . &>l.llU;; . .c, f*~a.nd:., u·l 1 have red .U\. t~:tm)L,. if.t~US!.~··· ,,BDl.,\\ ~~ .. ~ ... led: 1) . min my~ne· :ms.of~: .. . a~, .... . W~.:htJt,\\ ······ same ~ulary, .... ,,m(l .... day of iOmber .. an,. r in a ng my r;, .. .I.felt .bbacks .. ;~rview ve in- 4odeun nd·ho-w es and ~a<lti{)n •. '\·•·•-<A>~nd .. MJ.tb . (Vtt!i:;~tt:t. S\e'eundil\,.; feafS·Of· · es~:and@tl avacic ·odsky Blank venak nstein ~donia :hards Owens renner entley ~orton •Sapir Nallen ~.Sher liblum nbach, ~erald, ~oses, Sharp, lhardt, Wayne 3urdin telman liliano, f:lStem stud~mt wY~ lC., BoX1 . in the on rate: ~United ~(CPS), / OONOORDIENSIS, April15_, 198B Page 7 RespeetfUUy yours, . ... , . .. BethLQose.~ . , ..... ::··.:!~ap,:at·a:tu5n.::.·.··:·· · To the Editor: I address this letter to the entire ..... student ... booy~; .. l}f .. Union ....... ,· .. retgun~e.tJ~at•aJl .. lEem~ral:ly .. f'uncled 1 ,College\'\\'\·\upper•assm.en... ... '· &nllJr .. plan'f!inJg,, .. cumil(JS ... nol~if¥· underclassmen .. alike ... There is ... ~ .. theparentsofteeJrtag!eUlJIWllik(Tlq currently a tesource here at and under) who tJnion,. ,:wltiab ...... is\ .,v11s.tly, .. un .......... presuPiptioJ'Ii .methods, ... ,of .. bmtil der~d: the Career Center. control (e.g. di~pbragm, I. U~ The Career Center has been D., and oral contraeeptives}. If sueeessfu1\ in ·-plaeing SeCJtetary Riehard -Schw~er Elections for the position of Acting Editors-in .. Chief of Concordiensis for the remainder of Spring term will be held on Tuesday, April 27th at 8:30 pm • All interested persons should stJbmit their names- to Mrs. Lorraine Marra in the Student Activities Office by Monday, April 26th. Letters Editorials Commentar.r: What's Fit To Print? ByNORMAN BIRNBACH Columnist-at-large to print or not to prmt? That has been the question. For Paul Grossman and the Editorial Board of ConconUensis, the decision had been to print the Conduct Cominittee's report. For that decision, they have suffered the slings and arrows of an outraged Student Forum. Tbe end result, like the final scene in a Shakespearean tragedy, was not a happy one for those on the Concordy. When the final body count was taken, Paul Grossman was no longer Editor-in-Chief and Associate Editor Rachel Mandel decided that she could not be associated with an Editorial Board whose integrity had been questioned. The Concordiensls has no Editors-in-Chief. The question is whether the Student Forum has the power to censure the Concordiensis and to remove editors from office. This argument has brought forth other questions, as far as collegiate journalism is con- cerned. Paul Grossman declared that he had the right to print the Conduct Committee's report because the student body had - and continues to have - the right to be informed. The only problem is that Conduct Committee reports are sup- posed to be confidential, and should not have been printed. That brings up a question: What's fit to print? Did Grossman have the right to print the report whether or not it was in the interest of the Commentary: public? The answer depends on wh~;~ you ask. The New York Times would answer that ''All the news . . . (is) fit to print.\ But you'd get a different answer from Stan Lee, an editor it Marvel Comics. In a newspaper, one would think, tile answer would be that news is fit to print. That brings up tile question of what is news? The new, revised, expanded We.bster•s New World Die!· tlooary of the Amerit!an Language has \over 59,0()0 entries,\ one of which is tlu3t news is \information previously unknown\ and \reports ()f these.\ But what is \ill· form at ion pre v i o u s I y unknown\? That President Morris was a Zen Buddhist guru in Biafra before coming to Union was - up till now -- previously unknown information. That I have reported it, according to the second part .of the definitbn, makes it news. However, it Is not true. President Morris was not a Zen Buddhist guru in Biafra - probably ·a relief to many - which means it is no longer news, and though it might be a rumor, no paper would print it because of possible legal action if the in- formation is wrong. That means that news is true \informati<Jn previously unknown.'' A newspaper is supposed t() print the news; true in- formation previously unknown. If so, Grossman did no wrong, because he printed true, previously unknown in- formation. People were in- terested in what happened <Jn the night of January 30. However, the report was confidential, and thus should not have been printed, contends the Student For.um. The question now is should Concordy have printed something of such a delicate nature? In 1971, The New Y()rk Tioles published The Pentagon Papers, wich were confidential papers leaked to the Times. The Pentagon Papers were of a very delicate nature; they disclosed that America was losing the war in Vietnam, yet The New York Times .printed them because the editors thought it was in the best interests of the public. The U.S. Supreme Court upheld The New York Times rights under the First Amend- ment-freedom of the press. The problem with using The New York Times as an example is that Concordy is hardly big league journalism. But Con- cordy is a newspaper, and should be considered as such. The Conduct Committee's report was confidential, but everyone involved was cleared. Part of the Student Forum's argwnent is that the integrity of the Conduct Committee was put in jeopardy, that people might not go to the committee out of fear that the results might be printed. But journalistic principles would not condone the printing, far example, of the name of a rape victim. So, what's fit to print? Information that's previously unknown and not damaging to innocent people is news, and it's fit to print. Forum Acted Correctly EDITOR'S NOTE: We received the following com- mentary as a letter to the editor. We have featured it here because it offers suitable co1111terpoint to Mr. Blrnbach's column, also on tbls page. Submitted by Joseph Laurin Senior Class Representative I would like to respond to the Concordlensls editorials of April 8, \Our Statement,\. \From the Editor,\ and \Resignation.\ I would like to stress that these are my opinions and not necessarily those of the entire Student Forwn. , First, I would like to make it clear that both Paul and Rachel resigned from the paper, completely, by themselves. In . the resolution passed by the Student Forum it was specifically stated that Paul \ .. . be removed as Editor in Chief but not from total involvement in the paper . . . . \ Paul's statement that his •: ... future contributions have been prevented\ just isn't true. ·There are three major reasons I feel that justify Paul's . - removal as Editorain-Chief. The first and _most important is the damage 1 done to the Conduct Committee. I just don't think that this was considered seriously enough by Paul and the Editorial Board. Every person who goes before the Conduct Committee is gUaranteed confidentiality. The printing of the C.C. report makes this guarantee a joke! In \Resignation Rachel states. \Any editor in the future might question a decision to print,. fearing how the Forum might view the issue.\ Has she CQn- sidered how someone going before the C.C. might feel? The second reason is related: to the first. If Paul were to admit the printing of t_he C.C. report was a mistake and that this type of thing would not happen again, people might again feel safe with the C.C. However, Paul does not see that a mistake has been made. lie has said that he would print the report again. Paul feels that it is within his authority an<l jurisidiction to decide whether or not to print confidential C.C. reports! He shouldn't even have access to them in the first place. This really scares me! Thirdly-and this is the crux of the problem--Paul doesn't realize that he is first a Union College student answerable to the rules and regulations of the college and Editor of C4>n- cordiensiS second. Even if we don't like to admit it, we have our own insulated little world here and Conc4Jrdy is not the N. Y. Times. As far as the question of th-e Forum's right to act and tile question of the By-Laws-this is a ridiculous and foolish attempt by the Editorial Board to clolld the issue. The absence of th.e By-Laws is an inhel'ited problem from last year's Forum. New By-Laws are presently being written. However, the· Forum eomes under the Student Body Con- stitution and it can still look to the old By-Laws for \guidan- ce.\ Article XI (Provisions and Procedures Not Specifically Enumerated in This Con- stitution or the By-Laws of the Student Fonun) of the Con- stitution states: \Section 1. The Student Forwn shall have the authority to draw up and ad- minister .any provisions and procedures that .are not specifically enumerated in this Constitution or in the By-Laws of the Student Forwn.\ I must agree with the Editorial Board's feeling that this was an internal affair. However, since the article was printed, the Board obviously could not or would not keep its Editor-in-Chief in check. Therefore, it became the Forwn's affair (still an internal affair since technically the · Forwn is the publisher-owner of Concordtensis). Finally, I must contest any statement infering that the Forum's decision was a hasty reaction or power play. The decision came after 4 Forum meetings and an Administrative Review spanning nearly 6 weeks. Paul realized from the beginning that he was breaking a student code by printing the Conduct Committee report. In his last editorial Paul realizes \Freedom of Press has its price .... \ Why can't he and the Editorial B()ard now accept that price? -

Fine story, an Arts, dies, ience, Socio- and~ list, ern as it have in to The 1) in of .. tragic. same and of I in a my I felt in· .and and major, ·in second. of Blank Nallen Sher Sharp, stud~nt Bo~ in the rate: United (CPS), OONOORDlJJJ NSIS) A·priZ 15} 1982 Page 7 COllllllelltary I • L~tters , II . myself, the supply will soon be emaUJted. can you imagine rUnning out of Biology~ Physics or Engineering courses and consequentially having to take courses with no appeal? You would be Uving in a state of Liberal Learning Supreme, where frustration isn't just for perverts any more. But there is no cure for treachery, no answer. rve played the fgol before, and now I've been made the fool. Advisors tell me to transfer; I tell them, \later always hoping for change. EarUer this year, a grant was bestowed upon the Humanities, and I was teased with hope, But so far, I have not noticed any change within the curriculum denoting this glorious grant. The corl'idors in }Jumanities just seem more polished. Where has the money gone? Spare cleats for an athletic team? Or is the money still with Hwnanities, only in the form of more janitors? Name withheld by request Support the Career Center To the Editor: I address this letter to the entire student body of Union College .... upperclassmen and underclassmen alike. There is currently a resource here at Union which is vastly un~ derutilized: the Career Center. The Career Center has been very successful in placing students · and providing guidance in choosing careers once· students decide t() take advantage of the services tMre; however~ participation has been hlst{)rically low. During the winter term alone, workshops were given on the following topics: Jan. 27 - Careers· in Public Relations and Advertising - Attendance: 14. Jan. 28- Skills Identification - • Attendance: 4. Feb·. 10 - Careers in Human ·Services- Attendance: 1. These are just a few {If the programs that were set up- not a very encouraging picture for . the staff of the Career Center! . Not only do these prGgrams require large amounts of . planning time, but most <Jf them lnvolve Alumni support and catering services~ And, as every student received a copy of the winter term schedUle in his-her mailbox, there is no e'l\:CUSe for this lack of participation. I, for one, have discovered the Washington. D.C., Binghamton, and New York City. Sev~ral · faculty members will also be there to round out the panel. The format. is very infQnnal - basically panel members will relate their e.xperiences in choosing a major. deciding on a career, pursuing that career, and finany landing their current positions. Questions are welcome and highly en· couraged, and some helpful advice on job hunting in larger cities such as Boston, New ):\&rk and Washington, D.C. will be provided. - . As one of tbe coordinators of the workshopt 1 have a personal interest in seeing a large tur- nout. However, personal feelings aside. I think any concerned student has much. to gain and should make it a pl}int to attend. Hope to see you there! Respectfully yours, Beth Loose '82 Population Affairs Speaks Out To the Editor: The Department of Health and Human SerVices recently announced proposed regulations which would requirethat all federally funded family planning clinics notify the parents of teenaged girls (17 and under) who receive prescription methods of birth control (e.g. diaphragm, I. U. D., and oral contraceptives). If Secretary Richard Schweiker decided to issue these regulatioll$ in final form, they will automatically become law after April 23 •. It is the feeling of the Women's Network and many concerned individuals on . campus that this decision should not be permitted to pass quietly into law without protest. The obvious and disturbing result of this law would be that fewer teenaged girls will make use of the services of family planning clinics, thus in· .creasing the likelihood of un- wanted pregnancies and abortions. In order to prevent this from . happening, the Women's Network would like to en• courage all students who are concerned about the situatton to write a letter to the Department of Health and HwnaQ_.Services protesting the proposed regulations. Further in- formation; as well as stationery and stamps, will be provided at · efforts · which go into these activities. Tonight, April 1~, the a desk in Carnegie on Friday afternoon. Otherwise, letters should be addressed to: Ms. Marjory Mecldenburgt Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Population Affairs, Room 725H, 200 Independence Avenue, S. W., Wasfiington, o.c. 20201. · Career Center will spcmsor a · workshop entitled, \Can Liberal Arts Majors Get Jobs .• · Too?\ to be held in Hwnanitles US from 7:00 to 9:30 p.m. Eleven Alumni (pri:nlarily from the Classes of '73 and '79) are volunteering . their time and money to drive up from Sincerely, Catherine Johnson Elections for the position of Acting Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensis for the remainder of Spring term will be held on Tuesday, April 27th at 8:30 pm. All interested persons should submit their names to Mrs. Lorraine Marra in the Student Activities Office by Monday, April 26th. Letters Editorials Commentar.r: What's Fit To Print? By NORMAN BIRNBACH Columnist-at-large To print or not to print? That has been the question. For Paul Grossman and the Editorial Board of ConcordleDSIS, the decision had been to print the Conduct Corrunittee's report. For that decision, they have suffered the slings and arrows of an outraged Student Forum. The end result, like the final scene in a Shakespearean tragedy, was not a happy one for those on the Concordy. When the final body count was taken, Paul Grossman was no longer Editor-in-Chief and Associate Editor Rachel Mandel decided that she could not be associated with an Editorial Board whose integrity had been questioned. The Concordiensis has no Editors-in-Chief. The question is whether the Student Forum has the power to censure the Concordiensis and to remove editors from office. This argument has brought forth other questions, as far as collegiate journalism is con- cerned. Paul Grossman declared that he had the right to print the Conduct Committee's report because the student body had - and continues to have - the right to be informed. The only problem is that Conduct Committee reports are sup- posed to be confidential, and should not have been printed. That brings up a question: What's fit to print? Did Grossman have the tight to print the report whether or not it was i.n the interest of the Commentary: public? The answer depends on who you ask. The New York Times would answer that \All the news . . . (is) fit to print.\ But you'd get a different answer from Stan Lee, an editor at Marvel Comics. In a newspaper, one would think, the answer would be that news is fit to print. That brings up the question of what is news? The new, revised, expanded Webster's New World Die!· tionary of the American Language has ''over 59,000 entries,\ one of which is that news is \information previously unknown\ and \reports of these.\ But what is \in- formation previously unknown\? That President Morris was a Zen Buddhist guru in Biafra before coming to Union was - up till now -- previously tmknown information. That I have reported it, according to the second part of the definition, makes it news. However, it is not true. President Morris was not a Zen Buddhist guru in Biafra - probably ·a relief to many - which means it is no longer news, and though it might be a rumor, no paper would print it because of possible legal action if the in- formation is wrong. That means that news is true \information previously unknown.\ A newspaper is supposed to print the news; true in- formation previously unknown. If so, Grossman did no wrong, because he printed true, previously unknown in- formation. People were in- terested in what happened on the night of January :JO. However, the report was confidential, and thw should not have been printed, contends the Student Forum. The question now is should Concordy have printed something of such a delicate nature? In 1971, Tbe Ne¥ York Times published The Pentagon Papers, wich were confidential papers leaked to the Times. The Pentagon Papers were of a very delicate nature; they diilclosed that America was losing the war in Vietnam, yet Tile New York Times printed them because the editors thought it was in the best interests of the public. The U.S. Supreme Court upheld The New York Time!! rights under the First Amend· ment-freedom of the pre::~s. The problem with using ille New York Times as an example is that Concordy is harc!ly big league journalism. BuJ Con- cordy is a newspaper, and should be considered !U'! such. The Conduct Committee's report was confidential, but everyone involved was cleared. Part of the Student Forum's argwnent is that the integrity of the Conduct Committee 'Was put in jeopardy, that people might not go to the committee out of fear that the results rraight be printed. But journalistic principles would not condone the printing, for example, of the name of a rape victim. So, what's fit to print? Information that's previously unknown and not dan1aging to in.nocent people is news, and it's fit to print. Forum Acted Correctly EDITOR'S NOTE: We received the following com~ mentary as a letter to the editor. We have featured it here because it offers suitable counterpoint to Mr. Bimbacb's column, also on this page. Submitted by Joseph Laurin Senior Class Representative I would like to respond to the Concordiensis editorials of April 8, \Our Statement,\ \From the Editor,\ and \Resignation.\ I would like to stress that these are my opinions and not necessarily those of the entire Student Forum. . First, I would like to make it clear that both Paul and Rachel 1·esigned from the paper, completely, by themselves. In the resolution passed by the Student Forum it was specifically stated that Paul \ .. . be removed as Editor in Chief but not from total involvement in the paper . . . .'' Paul's statement that his \ . . . future contributions have been prevented\ just isn't true. There are three major reasons I feel that justify Paul's removal as Editor-in-Chief. The first and most important is the dan:Iage done to the Conduct Committee. I just don't think that this was considered seriously enough by Paul and the Editorial Board. Every person who goes before the Conduct Committee is guaranteed confidentiality. The printing of the C.C. report makes this guarantee a joke! In \Resignation Rachel states \Any editor in the future might question a decision to print, fearing how the Forum might view the issue.\ Has she con- sidered how someone going before the C.C. might feel? The second reason is related to the first. If Paul were to admit the printing of the C.C . report was a mistake and that this type of thing would not happen again, people might again feel safe with the C.C. However, Paul does not see that a mistake has been made. He has said that he would print the report again. Paul feels that it is within his authority and jurisidiction to decide whether or not to print confidential C.C. reports! He shouldn't even have access to them in the first place. This really scares me! Thirdly-and this is the crux of the problem--Paul doesn't realize that he is first a Union College student answerable to the rules and regulations of the college and Editor of Con- cordiensis second. Even if we don't like to admit it, we have our own insulated little world here and Concordy is not the N. Y. Times. As far as the question of the Forum's right to act and the question of the By-Laws-this is a ridiculous and foolish attempt by the Editorial Board to cloud the issue. The absence of the By-Laws is an inherited problem from last year's Forum. New By-Laws are presently being written. However, the Forwn eomes under the Student Body Con- stitution and it can still look to the old By-Laws for ·~guidan· ce.\ Article XI (Provisions and Procedures Not Spec ifi cally :Enumerated in This Con- stitution or the By-Laws of the Student Forum) of the Con- stitution states: \Section 1. The Student Formn shall !lave the authority to draw up and ad- minister any provisi()ns and procedures that ue not specifically enumerated in this Constitution or in the By-Laws of the Student Forum.' • I must agree with the Editorial Board's feeling that this was an Internal affair. However, since the article was printed, the Board oilviously could not or would not keep its Editor-in-Chief in check. Therefore, it becarne the Forum's affair (still an internal affair since teclmically the Forum is the publisher-owner of Concordiensis). Finally, I must contest any statement infering tl1at the Forum's decision was a hasty reaction or power pl~y. The decision came after 4 Forum meetings and an Administrative Review spanni.ng nearly 6 weeks. Paul realized from the beginning that he was breaking a student code by printing the Conduct Committee report. In his last editorial Paul realizes \Freedom of Press has its price . . . . \ Why can't he and the Editorial Board now ac:cept that price?

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS 1 April 15 1 198S Job Prospects Look Gr,im for- New G,rads g o v e r n me nt a g en c i e s . \Applications to the CIA are way, way up.\ CIA recruitment chief Charles Jackson confirms \we are very actively recruiting.'' (CPS )-Forecasts of the job prospects for this term's graduates are turning out to have been \excessively op- timistic,\ placement officers aroWld the country rer· rt. A significant number o com- panies that promised to hire this spring have cancelled their plans, leaving extraordinarily l()ng student lines at many placement centers. predicted accelerated campus recruiting in many industries, with average starting salaries rising nine ,percent. The College Placement Council's swvey of 551 recruiters also uncovered widespread corparate ex- pectations of increased college hiring. The annual Michigan State survey .of 428 businesses, however, cautioned that \pockets of prosperity\ would balance out hlring declines in some industries. When it comes to liberal arts majQrs, \we're trying to widen our net a little.\ But \someone with a general background needs the best g.p.a.,- must be a top-of-the-line student.\ Computer Jokes The placement officers add the only reason the munber of on-campus interviews is keeping close to earlier predictions is a boom in college hiring by defense-ielated in- dustries. ''Competition (among students} is up andi rEcruitment (by companies) is down,\ says Ava Sellers, placement director at Vanderbilt. \Lines are forming two hours before sign-ups begin,\ atlds William Mitchell, who directs placement services at Cal State- Sacramento. \The recruiters a~e having a ball.\ A record 50 perc:e11t of Yale's 1982 grads signed up for campus interViews this spring. \I think there was excessive optimism from industry this time,\ summarizes Victor Lindquist, who helps administer the influential Endicott Report on American business' campus hiring plans and who is placement director at Nor- thwestern. He blames the changes in hiring plans on rocky economic times in the retailing, metals and oil industries. It's turning out differently. Hiring of even highly-prized engineering majors is merely \holding steady,\ according to Johns Hopkins placement head Sharon Baughan. Baughan does caution that \it's too early to make statistical comparisons\ to last year. \A recent increase ·in the numbers of chemical engineering students has brought in new interest from steel and related industries,\ she adds. Generally, the placement officers credit defense-related industries' recruiting with .keeping student interview traffic close to last year's levels. \Twenty to 25 percent of the overall defense spending in- creases will directly benefit California,\ chortles Cal State- Sacramento's Mitchell, \and it shows.\ \Recruitment is up three-to- five percent in technical areas, and I would guess it's up over 50 percent in defense-related in- dustries,\ he says. \Instead of sending one recruiter, the defense-related companies are sending in three or four. They're going into the classrooms and dorms to seek students out.\ Jackson attributes the rise in applications less to a fallout from military recruiting and more to an improved CIA image. \Our bad press is behind us now.\ Student job competition seems to be st·iffer in all fields. Because of rising unemm ployment among older workers, Lindquist thinks \it's valid to say students will be .competing with a greater number of older, experienced job seekers this year.\ But ... the advantage goes to the )tids, whose education in new technologies makes them more current in the market- place.'' ~:U. T. Placement Director Robert Weatherall agrees, saying mobility is the major competitive edge students have. \Often a person with a mortgage and a family can't afford to move. But all that a stutlent generally needs is a damage deposit and a U-Haul trailer.\ But Lindquist warns stiffer competition requires students to adopt \a whole new per- spective on the recruitment process. The days are gone when they can throw as much bullshit on the wall as they can, and wait to see what sticks.\ (CPS )...Stanford students will have to settle fQr something less than a chuckle when they sit down to use the university's computer system, now that the administration has zapped. a once-popular joke file because some of its contents were racially offensive. The campus-wide system, called SPIRES, included special files that allowed students to conununicate with each other by storing messages that other users. could call up and peruse. About three years ago, according to Stanford spokesman Bob Beyers, some students started a joke file in the system. By this January the flle had grown to contain over 1300 jokes, but many were racist in nature. Admi.nistrators never bothered to screen the jokes, which took on a life of their own. Beyers says students spon- taneously developed a system for classifying the jokes as \clean \dirty \filthy or \sick.\ \There were a variety of jokes--elephant jokes, Irish jokes, bi-sexual jokes-mjust anything anyb()dy wanted to put in there,\ he says. Unfor- tunately, too many people wanted to put in racially derogatory slurs. · After getting a complaint and then an inquiry .from a local reporter. about the racist jokes in ,the file, administrators removed it from public View. Stanford authorities refuse to speculate why students especially liked to enter ethnic and racial jokes into the system. But other experts in humor aren't surprised. \Sick jokes and ethnic slurs have always been around,\ says Christopher Geist, a professor of popular culture at Bowling Green and a collector of sick jokes. \The only thing new is using the computer to tell them. In colonial times, you could find that type of humor in the newspapers. It's not a new phenomenon at alL\ Geist guesses the anonymity of the Stanford joke tellers spared them the usual social inhibitions against racism. \In an anonymous situation like that, it's the same as writing on a bathroom wall. There's safety in anonymous expression.\ He doubts many of the joke authors would tell the same stories in public. ''I think it says more about the teller than the target gf the joke.\ \The basic metals industries are usually heavy recruiters, and they are ba~ely holding , their own this year,\ Lindquist ()bserves. \The oil industry, which has had enormous growth the last few years, has had to pull back this year in response to falling gas prkes. They are traditionally heavy recuiters, and it has caught · many by surprise.\ At Johns Hopkins, the defense-related firms are also \doing a brisk business,\ Baughan says. But at Van- derbilt, Sellers reports ·\they seem to be keeping it close to the chest.\ Sorority Life Dated? Virginia Benfield, manager of college recruiting for Texaco,· Inc., confirms that \last year, no one in the industry expected the economy to be this bad.\ She anticipates ·~our hiring will fall short of our projec- tions.\ But she says Texaco, for one, is \just leveling off at a more predictable rate ()f biring.\ The continuing problems of the auto industry have also depressed camp11s recruiting, especially in the midwest. ''Some of our regulars are tied to the autom()tive industry, and that has been a problem,\ says Pat Markle «>f Western Kentucky University. \Some of our regulars just aren't hiring, and some of the recruiters who set up dates to interview have had to call and cancel.\ \I tell them to come back when they can see daylight again,\ she adds. Such reports contradict most of the student j()b market predictions made just last fall. The Endic()tt Report The military itself has stepped up recruiting, especially of liberal arts majors. But Mitchell says that student desires \for something a little more glamorous than the armed forces\ has inspired a renewed interest in other (CPS)-8orority life may be teaching women passive and out-dated ways of living in contemporary society, ac- cording to a study by a University of Washington sociology professor. Barbara Risman, who authored the study, observed sorority members in their live- in campus environments over a three-year period to measure imy differences between them and unaffiliated students at the university. Her findings may not go over well with the hundreds of sororities around the country, ATTENTION ALL SE·N,IORS This is your absolute LAST CHANCE . . to get your FACE in the YEARBOOK. This FRIDAY, APRIL 16 is the deadline • Submit a 2V2 x 3 WI Black and ·white glossy with a ~ inch border t~ Mrs. Marra. The Campus Store Presents: PEANUTS@ by Charl~s M. Schulz. LOOK AT HEI< •• I 1 LL BET Sf.IE'S GAINED THIRTV POUNDS •.• WI1V' DO I ALWAV5 GET FAT PARTNERS? HEV, PARTNER, I HOPE . YOU'RE NOT THINKING ABOUT HOW FAT I AM ! WHY WOULD I THINK THAT? but Risman is convinced that sorority life reinforces old stereotypes of women, and may actually hinder them when they · leave college. For instance, she points out, sorority members typically hew to a \subordinate\ role in the greek system, waiting to be asked to social events and allowing males to pay for them, while using coquettish behavior to progress through the ena vironment. _ \I concentrated solely on the things girls learned about femininity,\ Risman says, \and what it meant to be female. I realize there are some very positive sides to being > in an organization. 11 But she believ~s that the tight organization of sororities is the main reason they haven't up- dated their visions of what it means to be a women in modern society. ''BecaUse they're voluntary organizations, people who disagree tend to resign or just stay silent,\ she observes. \So things stay the way they are. And because they're so well organized, much of the boy-girl behavior is almost ritualized. It just doesn't leave a lot of rpom for change.\ In her classes and presen- tations of her study, 'Risman says student reactions range from \Well . you just don't understand the whole picture\ to \outright anger.\ But she explains, \the whole piCture wasn't what I was af- ter.\ Only 59 days 'til graduation! ; GET PSYCHED! ',-.

and a local jokes Vi.ew. to ethnic th'e humor slurs eist, a at thing es, you in a new tellers social \In like on joke same says the that old they out, hew in the to be and them, the enc the about \and I very ~in an tight is the up- what it modern who or just \So are. so well boy-girl It of rpom presen- range don't picture\ whole was af- 'til OONOORDIENSIS, April L6, 1981 Page 9 0 • 0.:1 C• 1 .,. tw '-~.. .., ..... 0 ~ \-\'..,.. -\0 Q .,--a... ,... ~ '\ q ~. General Nottices 3 Bedroom Apartment Available for 82-83 year. $250 includes w-w carpet and · ap- pliances. Available June 1st. Call 370-5498 after 6 p.m. One or two apartment mates for summer sublet. Contact Rachel at box 2202 as soon as possible if interested. The Sociology . Department and \Women and Change in the Third World\ class presents a slide presentation by Professor Martha Huggins entitled \Women and Work in Brazil\. Suitcase Party Tickets for the Annual Delta Phi Suitcase Party will be going on sale today in the Student Activities Office. ZBT-UMOC The brothers and pledges of Zeta Beta Tau present their 3rd annual competition for the ugliest man on campus. Ten cents will cast one vote for your candidate. All UMOC proceeds will be donated to the United Way of Schenectady. Votes can be cast at Carnegie, West, and Hale. Leaders will be posted starting Tuesday, April 20. Prize packages, include a portable AM-FM stereo cassette player-recorder, kegs of beer, dinners for two; scotch, wine, champagne, a \special gift\ from Orion's Boutique, cases of beer, UMOC shirts, and much more.· Winners will be announced at the ZBT-UMOC Band Party at the alumni Gym on April 27 featuring BLOTTO. Get your tickets now! ! 1 Phi Sigma Kappa These will be a Phi Sigma Kappa charity party on Apri117. It will be Shown Friday April 16 at 1:30: in SS 117. All are invited~ For more information contact Prof. Huggins in the Sociology Department, ext. 6227. Two conceit-demonstrations by . composer .. performers: MUSIC FOR MICROPROCESSOR. Both in Arts Building 202 at 7:.30 p.m. I. Ron Kuivila-Mon... April 19th, II..1oe1Chada~Wed., April21. \Refusing to be a Victim\ is the title of this weeks Women's Lunchtime Colloquium. The talk will be given by Henry Hughes of the Cognitive Counseling Center of Schenectady on Tuesday, April 20 at 12:30 p.m. in the Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall. Bring a lunch; coffee and tea provided. Pennanent part-time position available. Apply in person at The Gatepost in the Mohawk Mall. Don't forget to return your Career Questi~Jnnaire to either Mrs. Marra or the Alumni Office by April 19th. Delta Gamma Olympics Once again, Delta Gamma is sponsoring the annual Delta Gamma Olympics. Teams of ten, five females and five males, will be f()rmed to par- ticipate in events to test their athletic capabilities. In the past, feats of jello eating, tug-of- war and water balloon throWing have proven to be a challenge. Join the fun, May 22, 1982. Proceeds will benefit the blind. More details at a later date. Union College Film Committee Presents The school where the students rule!. Pc:,!R!~~~:.:!~o- Metro color @)A NEW WORLD PICTURE A ril21at7,9&11-$1.0() e tees The ,film \Twelve Angry Men'' (1957), the classic jury room drama starrmg Henry Fo , a, Lee J. Cobb, Ed Begley. Ja · . 'luglnan, Martin Balsam, E.· · arshall, Jack Warden and bert Webber will 'be shown in SS016 on Monday, April26 at 1 :30 and on Tuesday April27 at 6:00 P~M. Admission is. 75 cents. Sponsored by the Department of Psychology. Interested ina Career hi Insurance? The Independent Insurance Agents offer ten $1,000 scholarships to 11ndergraduates who have completed their sophomore or junior year, have proven academic acllievem.ent and ability and d~onstrate an interest in pursuing a career ,in insurance. Financial need is not a consideration. For ap- pUcations and 'information, contact Ellen F.rishberg in the Financial Aid Office, X6123. Deadline for applications is July 15, 1982. If you have not yet made summer plans, you might consider the Union Term Abroad, a Summer Study of Socialized. Medicine in Three Countries, the United States, Great Britain and Sweden. If you are interested, you should contact the Terms Abroad of- fice immediately. Applications for the winter, 1983 Terms Abroad will be accepted until May 1, 1982. The winter tenns for 1983 will be held in Israel, Athens, Greece mtd in Bogota, Colombia. Each of the terms requires a prerequisite to be ta~en during the fall term. For applications, and information, please see Joan Freeman or Professor Thomas in HU211. The American IDBHtute of Cooperation will award $100 to five juniors and seniors for outstanding term papers on a ~ ' 'b ' 0. ()(I ' \ - \' ... ' 0 • .._ ~,... Jo Q .. ~ne..\\\\' / significant economic :Issue pertaining to agricultural cooperatives in the United States. Entries must be recei,ved by June 15. Applications are available in the F.inancial Aid Office. .Ad,m.inistrative and Engineering Systems are sponsoring . a Colloquium presenting Ms. Holly Nolan, Director of Trade, Education & Service, Division of Tourism, New York State Department of Commerce \I LOVE NEW YORK: Promoting Business Expansion in New York State\ Aprn 15, 1982, Thursday, 3:45 p.m. This will be held in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. OQ TJ,e Otber froqt l . Spanish Table Spanish Table will meet this Tuesday April 2oth at12:30 p.m. in the Pub. All levels are in- vited, and a special invitation is extended to all Term-Abroad students. Women's Network Women's Network presents 4 4 Mass Transit St. Theatre',. on April 16 from 5-11 :00 ,p.m. in Memorial Chapel Glee Club There will be a Glee Club concert at 4:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Curling Organizational Meeting Tuesday, April 2oth at 7:30 in Conference Room. A, third floor \Carnegie (next to the game room). Everyone who was involved this year is-needed to help plan next year's activities. Election of officers is scheduled. For more information contact Marc at 393-5336 or Box 2122. • Intenectllal Cabaret Intellectual Cabaret is back! There will be a general meeting of Intellectual Cabaret on Wednesday, April 14 at 7:30 p.m. in the Cabaret room to discuss plans for spting term. Members should note that elections · for officers will be soon but everyone is welcome to join. .Attention aU Big .. Brothers Big Sisters Big Brothers-Big Sisters is sponsoring a trip to Riverside Amusement Park for Union Big Brothers-Big Sisters and their little:s. DATE: Saturday, May 1. For more information check your mailbox or pick up an information fonn at the Student Activities Box Office . Senior Fling Anyone interested in. Senior Fling-1982, please contact Mrs. Marra in Student Activities. Camp Union Anyone interested in Camp Union-1982, please contact Darcy Hammennan at 374-3243 or Mrs. Marra at Student Activities or 370-6118. We need pe()ple for all activities. There will be an organizational meeting next Wednesday. THE WO·RLI) IS YO CAMPUS AROUND THE WORLD: sails Sept. 8, 1982 from Seattle - Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, India, Israel, Egypt, Greece, Spain. AROUND THE WORLD voyages are p'anned for 1983. Apply early. Sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh. More than 60 uniw~rsitv courses. with in·port and voyage-related emphasi~. Faculty from University of Pittsburgh.and other leading universities. augmented by visiting area experts. ·optional tours. including special tours into the People's Republic of China, ava'ilable. Participation 1s open to qualified students from all accredited colleges and universities. Semester at Se.,a admits students without regard to color, ra(e or creed. The S.S. Universe is fully air· conditiomd. 18.00() tons . .registered in Liberia and built in Amer~~.:a. For a free color brochure, write: Semester at Sea, UCIS, University of Pittsburgh, Forbes Quadrangle, Pittsburgh, PA IS260, or call toll free (800) 854..0195 (In Callfort1la all (714) 771-6500~

Page 10 CONOORDIENSIS~ Aprll15, 198$ • ~ ·.J!U~K.\fi~IA'I ,( r' ....... \ ... \\ 0 ( < ' \ < ' . . '-.' LP12·-I really enjvyed working with you. You give great backrubs. Maybe we'll do it again sometime. Love, LP14. P .S. This is your first one. DC-I believe it's party Ume again for first fi<lor Fox South. I'll knock on wood that it will be a good one and you-do the same- <Jnly this time make sure there are no knives in the wood! ! ! 1 ! Your consceince. Orientation Committee: Thanks once again for making me happy. I know I'm not alone in believing that it's always the same students who are chosen for everything. Hope you have a lot of fun. D. Seubert-stay away from Wags. It's my territory and I want him aU to myself. Thanks alot-JACK. CHI PSl BEER RALLY!!! YOU KNOW THAT THE V* Career W ~rks~cp: \Call Liberal <Arts MaJcrs Get Jobs, Too?!·\ Toqigbt, ~pril 15 7-9:30 pnr Hu111a,qities 115 . Opeq to Everyoqe free Coffee & Doquts CAREER CENTER WORKSHOPS CAREERS IN INVESTMENTS--April 21,7 p.m., Cont. Room A, Carnegie--Don McManamon '76, Account Executive for E. F. Hutton, will discuss his job and career opportunities in the in- vestment world. RESUME WRITING·· Thurs., April22, 3:30p.m., Career Center- -Basic how-to's, components of a resume, what. makes the dif· terence between an effective and an ineffective resume, tips on printing. SKILLS IDENTIFICATION--Thurs., April22, 6:3<l p.m., Career Center .. Self-assessment workshop designed primarily for, but not limited to, the Liberal Arts student. Includes identification of \transferable skills,\ work and life values. This is the first step in any effective job search. If you are not sure what you are good at, this is for you! CAREERS IN ENGINEERING--Wed., April 28, 7:00 p.m., Location: To be determined, stop by C.C. for info.-· Professionals discuss their jobs, career paths, and career op- 'tions in their field. (NOTE: This is a change in date!!) Musicians Wanted Students and Professors to play in the pit orchestra- for Mountebanks' spring musical \Company\ If interested, please call Irene at 6900 Union College Film Committee Presents Tuesday, Aprii20at 10 & 12- FR.E E Fri.,Apr.l6atll:OO-$l.OO Sat. & Sun., Apr. 17-18at7,9& 11 ~ . . Ices guest. great! !.Come on ove-r soro41me to see your ure:vealhlg\ photo$ .. ~The Photogrttpher- . · to .tbe real thing. Ilove you. (Moi) · We hope you like trivia. It's surprising the things you can learn!!!!!! Delta Love, the Sisters Scumbag- Take off your great white sheet. You are a loser. P.S. Walk Much!?!?! L.B.B.-HO>w do you like your meat? RAT-a:as anyone ever told you to go fty a kite? GRKt Energy? Bicycles and Beer and Barbequet I,.ooking for fun and feeling gr • . . atnwst HiJ Handsome! Thank heaven there is only on~ of you, beJng God and all. rm looking for-- Pug, Tmt , and M~ are bummed about your teeth. but it wil~ all ww:k out. I hope: Paul isn t tl&Jng too mueh of a cramp in the bum. It looks like a long term, but 'together, we can whale!! Love EWP . '• Persoaals must he submhtetl on persOnal WOMEN'S N~TWORK · Coralyn Hetzberg Melissa Gold Risa Hutner M.(. Laur:ie Mintz Karen Weisgerber April 15 9 & 11 ~ Dreaming of acaree·r working ,with people? ·::~m .w ·wtm~;~t~:··~-:,:·:·:':·~ A master's degree in human develop- ment or education can help make it possible. Judybeth Green Rachel Gertzog Aimy Edwards Our new Alumni Fellows Program can help make it affordable. If: you're a top-notch liberal arts senior you want to work with children, youth, families, the elderly, or students of any age call today to find·out about our master's degree programs (and certification where applicable) in human development and education. You may qualify for up to $3500 in tui1ion aid. ' Programs in: Child Development Senices (in day core, child abuse, handicapped and other agencies):· Counseling (in schools, colleges, agencies, industry}; .Resec.rch and Evaluation '(in schools, agencies); Teacher Prepara.tion (far K· 12 hearing impaired, learning disabilities, . reading; for 7-12 English, math, modern foreign languages, sciences, social studies) For information about the programs and career opportunities, call Lee Shields collect at 716-275-3950/3972 or write: Graduate School of Education and Human Development, _ University of Rochester, Rochester, N.Y. 14627 · Apply nqw for fall enrollment The cost of living-a dt:\eam iust came down. Equal Oppc»rtunity in Admissions and Student Aid . - ' --· ~ w The opene here wond« gale cold). well, , for a ,suffer 3-8. The slowl~ some first ~ capta: • c Wa p.n eve COt WP acr Thi brc YOl teri ~

Page 10 OONOORDIENBIS, April 15, 1982 ._....,,.. ;C> • ' ' ,, • ... LP12--I really enjoyed working with you. You give great backrubs. Maybe we'll do it again sometime. Love, LP14. P.S. This is your first one. Orientation Committee: Thanks once again for making me happy. I know I'm not alone in believing that ifs always the same students who are ch()sen for everything. Hope you have a lot of fun. Kevin-Glad I'll seE you in England. Stop over any time. Nairobi DC-I believe it's party time again f.or first floor Fox South. rn knock on wood that it will be a good one and you do the same- -only this time make sure there are no knives in. the wood!!!!! Your consceince. D. Seubert-stay away from Wags. It's my territory and I want him all to myself. Thanks alot-JACK. CHI PSl BEER RALLY!!! YOU KNOW THAT THE V· SQUAREDS ARE THE BEST CHUGGERS AROUND. GOOL DUCK TO US! G.P .• Thanks . , . lf I need a boot in the !it\\'• pl~ase be my Career W ~rk~bop: \Call Liberal ~rts Majors Get Jobs, ~oo ?! ·\ Tc.HJlgbt, ~.pril 15 1,9:30 pnr Hu1118.Qlties 115 . OpeQ to Everyol)e free Coffee & 'DoQuts CAREER CENTER WORKSHOPS CAREERS IN INVESTMENTS--April 21,7 p.m., Cont. Room A, Carnegie--Don McManamon '76, Account Executive for E.F. Hutton, will discuss his job and career opportunities in the in- vestment world. RESUME WRIT lNG-- Thurs., April22, 3:30p.m., Career Center- -Basic how-to's, components of a resume, what makes the dif- ference between an effective and an ineffective resume, tips on printing. SKILLS IDENTIFICATION .. Thurs., April22, 6:30p.m., Career Center--Self-assessment workshop designed primarily for, but not I im ited to, the Liberal Arts student. Includes identification of \transferable skills,\ work and life values. This is the first step in any effective job search. If you are not sure what you are good at, this is for you! CAREERS IN ENGINEERING--Wed., April 28, 7:00 p.m., Location: To be determined, stop by C.C. for info.-· Professionals discuss their jobs, career paths, and career op- tions in their field. (NOTE: This is a change in date! ! ) Musicians Wanted Students and Professors to play in the pit orchestra- for Mountebanks' spring musical \Company\ If interested, please call Irene at 6900 Union College Fi:lrn Committee Presents Tuesday, April20 at 10 & 12- FREE Fri., Apr.16atll:OO-$l.OO Sat. & Sun., Apr. 17-18 at 7,9 & 11 e Ices guest. 304R We hope you like trivia. It's surprising the things you can learn!!!!!! Delta Love, the Sisters Scum bag-Take off your great white sheet. You are a loser. P.S. Walk Much!?!?! L.B.B.-How do you like your meat? gr~at! ! Come on over som~ime to see your '\revealing\ poot<.Js. -The Photograpber- RA T -Has anyone ever told you to go fly a kite? GRK! Energy? Bicycles and Beer and Barbeque, Looking for fun and feeling gr . . . almost Hi, Handsome! Thank heaven there is only one of you, being God and all. I'm looking for- ;:,- . . . ' {. ., ,. . . '\: ·~ 0 .... . . Here's to the real thing. I lt)Ve · you. (Moi) · Pug, Trev and Meg are bummed about your teeth, but it will all work out. I hope Paul isn•t being too much of a cramp · in the bum. It looks like a long term, but together, we can whale! ! Love EWP Dear .Fiji Pledges (You know . who you ar~ ), ward to doing .a.~ > r~dio.>,, . sbow witb YQ\t~ arid . . . d.otiiS~l't even include the stoek fantasy. Personals must be submitted on personal ·forms ft;tm .bpJt office b · , 7' ·fif'fUes~ The nlctures caine oUt . lust . -. __ .- .-.' _-··.'·.-::·-,' .. -.··::·. '·;.. ,-- ·.-:- ' ,M ':,· ''•' ~ •' ' ,.-, ,.:,· •• • ''•..... -:~\ .: .. --~ .:·- -:.,. ' ~ . '····:.. ·. ,: .... -:· .. '· WOMEN'S NE.TWORK Cora lyn Hetzberg Melissa Gold Risa Hutner M.(. Laurie Mintz Karen Weisgerber April 15 9 & 11 Dreaming of a career working with people? A master's degree in human develop- ment or education can help make it possible. Judybeth Green Rachel Gertzog Amy Edwards Our new Alumni Fellows Program can help make it affordable. If: you're a top-notch liberal arts senior you want to work with children, youth, .families, the elderly, or students of any age call today to find out about our master's degree programs (and certification where applicable) in human deve.lopment and education. You may qualify for up to $3500 in tuition aid. Programs In: Child Development Services (in day care, child abuse, handicapped and other agencies); Counseling (in schools, colleges, agencies, industry); Research and Evaluation (in schools, agencies); Teacher Preparation (for K-12 hearing impaired, learning disabilities, reading; for7-12 English, math, modern foreign languages, sciences, social studies) For information about the programs and career opportunities, call Lee Shields collect at 716-275-3950/3972 or write: Graduate School of Education and Human Development, University of Rochester, Rochester, N.Y. 14627 Apply nqw for fall enrollment The cost of living a dream iust came down. Equal Opportunity in Admissions and Student Aid I I j . ' ' Thi open1 here wond gale cold) well, for a suffe 3-8. Th slow I some first capt< ( We p.l eVI co W1 ac1 Th bn yo ter

OONOORDIENSIS, Apn' 16, 1981 Page 11 Women's Lacrosse By S.P ., K.B. .Sports Staff The women's lacrosse team opened its season on Tuesday here .against Skidmore (in wonderful spring weather of gale force winds and bitter cold). The J.V. squad played well, outpassing their opponent for a sound win of 64. Varsity suffered a disappointing loss of 3-8. The varsity game started slowly, with Union encountering some passing difficulties. Our first goal, scored by senior· co- captain Liz Garcia with the help w;nrellrea•r AMERICA'S NEW WAVE CQU:NTDOWN Wavebreaker, 10-12 p.m. on Sunday evenings is a Top 20 countdown of NEW WAVE music frO'm across the .nation. This special feature is brought to you to keep you informed and en- tert~ined by: ~~ ~W.BV~ The Alternative Radio Station of freshman starter Kathy Furst, came with only llh minutes left in the first half. Unfortunately, by that time Skidmore already had five goals and snapped another in right after, closing the hall at 1 D 6. In the :second half, senior co- captain Sheryl Katz scored With 18:31 l-eft with an assist from Holly Howard. Then, with 2:54 on the clock .• Holly was assisted by Sheryl to score Union's last goal. , . If the lacrosse players con• tmue to show the energy and drive that was apparent last Tuesday, upcoming games at Russell Sage and Williams will bring the team a couple of wins. Good luck! Hollv Howard--one OfUnion's bold attacker:s. Today Sat. Tues. Wed. This Week in WOMEN'S SPORTS SOFTBALL vs. Siena 3:30 W. LACROSSE A&B at Russell Sage SOFTBALL at Skidmore W. TRACK- Albany St. lnvit. _ SOFTBALL vs. Willia·ms3:30 W. LACROSSE A&B at Williams W. TRACK- Colgate RelcJ.YS At t:he Rci·t ••• The 3rd Ann1.1al Foosball Tournament •f Champions April 22 4:11 _ENTRIES AND fffS IJUE ON APilll J9 Also the Re~thskellar Softball Team challen,es any team 1o a gameo Schedule games through Brian. Before We Put You In Charge Of The World's Most Sophisticated Nuclear Equipment, ,We Put You Through The World's / Most Sophisticated Nuclear Training. It takes more than 16 ' most qualified profes- monthsof intensive train- ·sionals. (No surprise that ing to become a fully qual- most of the men who ifie·d officer in the Nuclear operate the reactors in Navy,. You begin with four private industry started months of leadership in the Nuclear N\avy.) training. Then as a Navy It takes more time officer you get a full year and more effort to become of graduate-level training an officer in the Nuclear unavailable anywhere else at any price. Navy_ But the rewards are greater, too. Navy training is based on more than ' The rewards can begin as early as your 1900 reactor-years of experience. Right now junior year in college. Qualify, and the Navy the Navy operates over half the nuclear will pay you $900/month while you finish school. reactors in America. And the Navy's nuclear AFter four years, with regular promotions equipment is the most sophisticated in the and salary increases, you can be earning as world. That's why your Navy training is and much as $39,400. That's on top of a benefits must be the most sophisticated in the world. package that includes medical and dental care, As an officer in the Nuclear Navy, you and 30 days' vacation earned every year. have decision-making authority immediately. More responsibility, more money, more You get important man- ,-------------.., future, So, if you're major- agement responsibility 1 NAVY OPPORTUNITY INFORMATJON cENTER ing in math, engineering, or fast. Because in the I P.o. Box sooo. Clifton, NJ 01012 woao the physical sciences, and Navy, as your knowl- · o Please send me more information nbout becom· you want to know more edge grows, so does your I ing an officer in the Nuclear Navy. !I')N). about a future in nuclear -Fesponsibility, 1 N•m• '\\'' \''\\ P\\\ L•\ power, fill in the coupon. Your training and I Address . Apt \ 'lbday's Nuclear ex:perience place you I ctt_v State z.p Navy is an oppc»rtunity among the country's Age +canege/t.:ntl·ers•tY like no other in the world. I :I;Y('ar m Collegf' tGPA ___ _ I .. 6J,1aJor1'-lmor-----'-'~------ l Phone :-.rumber-;-:;;:;;;-r=;·----no::~:-=-;,;;-- cArrn t:otlt\l Hoo-!11 T1mP to Cnl! Tht'l-IS for l{('n('ral.r{'CrUJtmrnt tnformatHlfl You ~o nol·he.\f to lurnl!lh anv I nf thl• mformat1utl r1'tlllt'!Hl'd Of coursr thr maN \1'1\ kno\\ thL' mort I :~~~~;~~ hrlp to dPt,.rmHlt\ thP,. k1nd\ (11 ~a'~ .pUos111ons for \'~~ ~~~~ • 1..----~-------....1 Ravy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.

,.\ I ; ., CONOORDIENSIS,. ApriZ 15, 198S Page 11 • • • ' t' • ' '. \ - ' ' ' . . . . - . . ·,' ' ' ' ·' - -. .· - .,· ':- ' - . . . ~ . - . . . . . ' ' ' - \. . . _;· ' . . ' Women's lacrosse By S.P ., K.B. SpGrts Staff The women's lacrosse team opened its season on Tuesday here against Skidmore (in wonderiul spring weather af gale .force winds and bitter cold). The J.V. squad played well, outpassing their opponent for a sound win of 6-3. Varsity suffered a disappointing loss of 3-8. The varsity game started slowly, with Unian encountering some passing difficulties. Our first goal, scored by senior co- captain Liz Garcia with the. help w.nzllrealfei AMERICA'S NEW WAVE COUNTDOWN Wavebreaker, 10-12 p.m. on Sunday evenings is a Top 20 countdown of NEW WAVE music from across the nation. This specia-l feature is brought to you to keep you informed and en- tertained by: (II ~WBW.~ The Alternative Radio Station of freshman starter Kathy Furst, came with only llh minutes left in the first half. Unfortwtately, by that time Skid-more already had five goals and snapped another in right after, closing the half at 1· 6. In the second half, senior co- captain Sheryl Katz scored with 18:31 l-eft with an assist ~rom Holly Howard. Then, with 2 :M on the clock, Holly was assisted by Sheryl to score Union's last goal. . If the lacrosse players con- tinue to show the energy and drive that was apparent last Tuesday, upcoming games at Russell Sage and Williams will bring the team a couple of wins. Good luck! Hollv Howard--one of Union's bold attackers. Today Sat. Tues. Wed. This Week in WOMEN'S SPORTS SOFTBALL vs. Siena 3: 30 W. LACROSSE A&B at Russell Sage SOFTBALL at Skidmore W. TRACK- Albany St. lnvit. SOFTBALL vs. Williams 3:30 W. LACROSSE A&B at Williams W. TRACK- Colgate Relays At the Rat ••• The 3rd Annual Foosbmll Tournament of Champia.ns April 22 ALL ENTRIES AND FEES DUE ON APRIL J9 Also the Rathskellar Softball Team challerlfeS any team to a game. Schedule games through Brian. Before We Put You In Charge Of The World's Most Sophisticated Nuclear Equipment, We Put You Through The World's _ Most Sophisticated Nuclear Training. most qualified profes- sionals. (No surprise that most of the men who operate the reactors in private industry started in the Nuclear Navy. l It takes more than 16 months of intensive train- ing to become a fully qual- ified officer in the Nuclear Navy. You begin with four months of leadership training. Then as a Navy officer you get a full year of graduate-level training unavailable anywhel'e else at any price. Navy training is based on more than 1900 reactor-years of experience. Right now the Navy operates over half the nuclear reactors in America. And the Navy's nuclear equipment is the most sophisticated in the world. That's why your Navy training is and must be the most sophisticated in the world. It takes more time and more effort to become an officer in the Nuclear Navy. But the rewards are greater, too. The rewards can begin as early as your junior year in college. Qualify. and the Navy will pay you $900/month while you finish school. After four years, with regular promotions and salary increases, you can be earhing as much as $39,400. That's on top of a benefits package that includes medical and dental care, and 30 days' vacation earned every year. More responsibility, more money, more As an officer in the Nuclear Navy, you have decision-making authority immediately. ,--------------, future. So, if you're major- You get important man- agement responsibility fast. Because in the NAVY oPPORTUNITY INFORMATION cENTER 1 ing in math. engineering, or r.o. Box sooo. Clifton. NJ o70t2 w,,. the physical sciences, and Navy, as your know!- c Please send me more information about becom· edge grows, so does your m~' an officer in the Nuclear Navy. i0NI I you want to know more I about a future in nuclear 1 power. fill in the coupon. I Today's Nuclear responsibility. Your training and experience place you among the country's Addrvsc; ______ Apt tt ___ _ Clt\ ____ StatP---Z•P--- t\j.!r• __ +CoiiPJ{e. t'mH•ro>lt'----- 1 tYrnr mCollrgp ____ tGPA. ____ _ I &~la1or '-lmnr·---------- 1 JlhunP ~umb!!r-;-:;:;;-;--c=:;-------n=r=:-oc:-r.r.- rArrn t·odf'l Br·~l Tunt• I•• C;JII Th•~ I'> il•r JtPnrral rr,ruJtml\nt 1nlurnH1lmn 'ou do no>t ha~P t<l fur!'l•~h om I \' iht• mfnrn'IUIIO!l rl\qUP~ti\d Oi ltlUT'I.I' th<• mnrP \\ knn\ tht• mo1r1• 1\t' catlllt'lp tn dt•tt•rTllilll' tht'.kmdo; nl \'1'\ pt>'otltlln~ lor 11h11h \\\ QUdllh (\~ I 1'1..' Navy is an opportunity f like no other in the world. I I I I \-----~-------...1 Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast. <i. :::.! ~ 0 - 0 ..s: a

Page 12 CONOORDIENSIS, April 15, 198! ... -. ·. . •'' - ' ' ~ - ' ' . . . ' . ' ' . ', ' Spor?s Happenings AprillS-22 3aseball La<:rosse JV Lacrosse Track Tennis G()lf Rugby April15 Hartwick Aprill6 Utica ( 2) April ~9 RPI Apri.l 20 Siena April21 at St. Lawrence {2) April 22 at R PI April17 at-Oneonta April 21 Middlebury April 21 Middlebury April 17 at B.C. Relays April 21 at Col g. Relays April 16 Siena Aprill7 Skidmore Aprii20Aibany St. Apr.il 15 at Hartwick April 20 at Hamilton April17 at Vassar 3:00 l: 00 2:30 3:30 1:00 1: 00 2.:00 3:00 3:00 3:00 3:00 1: 00 3:00 1: 00 1:00 1: 00 Spring Sports Snowed By ROBERT NORTON Sports Editor A week ago Tuesday, the Capital District was covered with an eighteen inch blanket of snow. 'This unusual April snow storm played havoc with the spring ~ports schedule. With the \all weather\ field under mounds of snow, the lacrosse team v.ras forced to postpone their game with Albany, as both teams' fields were unplayable. FortUilately. · or unfortunately, there was little snow up north and Union was able to .get in a game against St. Lawrence which they lost, 17-2. Women's lacrosse was also hampered by the weather. Two of their games had to be rescheduled. The games against Oneonta and West Point are going to be played in late April and early May. Hardest hit by the late arrival of spring has been the baseball team. Even before the snow hit, the team was unable to get any games in as their field had not dried sufficiently. Games against RPI, Williams, Siena and LeMoyne (doubleheader) had to be rescheduled. Several players have voiced their frustrations with the weather which has put a serious damper on the spring's activities. The rugby team's game at Oneonta on Saturday was also cancelled due to a snow covered field and the fact that captain Joe Cardino's mother wanted him home for Easter. Due to the limited sports action this past week, no Miller Athlete of the Week will be awarded. For an updated schedule of sports events consult the Sports Happenings feature on this page. I NT RAM URAL ACT IV ITI ES Men's Activity Entries Due Play Begins Boxing April 2() April 22 Tennis (dbls.) April 19 April 22 Women's Badminton April 19 April 21 April 22 Tennis (dbls.) April 19 ~ Lacrosse Drops Pair By DON BEALL Sports .Staff With the melting of the snow off the astroturf field. the lacrosse team is once again getting a chance to practice outdoors. On Monday, the Dutchmen lost a tight gametoa quick Geneseo team. This close loss of 10-9 was a move in a positive direction after the laxmen lost decisively to St. Lawrence ·by a score .of 17 ~2. The Dutchmen left on Friday night for a Saturday afternoon game at St. Lawrence. When coach Meagher and his squad, arrived at St. Lawrence, they .found a soft and very muddy field awaiting them; This, along with a 40 degree overcast day, previded gloomy playing conditions. The game also started on a gloomy note as the Dutchmen were outscored 5-1 in the first quarter alone. The 1 team ended their offensive output in the second quarter- then they were again outscored 5-1. Veteran Jim Wright led the -scoring . with a goal and an · assist, while freshman Marc Ehudin had the other Dutchmen · tally. Steve Myers, a constant offensive threat, also had an assist. Union 1 s defense tightened uf somewhat in the second hal as they allowed seven goals compared to ten goals in the first half. St. Lawrence capitalized on one of two extra man situations, while Union scored no goals on their three attempts. One of the crucial factors of the game was that St. Lawrence scooped up 98 ground balls compared to the Dutchmen's 76 ground balls. This could be due to the fact that Union was not yet used to scooping off of a · soft, muddy field. Union hosted Geneseo on a cool Monday afternoon. Scoring started off slowly in the first quarter as Geneseo scored one · unanswered goal. The Dut- chmen were outscored 4-3 in a back and forth second quarter. The laxmen began building momentum upon returning to the field after halftime. The third quarter scoring was even at 3-3. Leading scorer Sean Durham got one of his two goals, as he drove from behind the net and unloaded a bounce shot to the upper right hand corner of the net for Union's sixth goal. Union's next feat was to come back from a two goal deficit. Things_ were looking better .for the Dutchmen because they were outplaying Geneseo. Geneseo's goaltender played an outstanding game, robbing, many Vnion attempts. Union's only extra man goal came in the fourthquarter when Jim Wright put in one of his two goals on a back door layup feed from Durham. Marc Marro . also netted a goal- in the fourth quarter, with a cannon shot from the outside. Billy Bauer ended Union's scoring on a feed from Durham. Bauer played a good .all-around game, comjng up with several ground balls. Union had some good chances to tie the game during the last minute of play, but the Geneseo .goaltending came through in the clutch. The game ended with excitement as James Bono fired a shot off the crossbar just as the buzzer sounded. Other Union -goal scorers were Chris Davis,. Andy Larkin and Steve Myers. Union im- proved their ground ball per- formance scooping up 79 to Geneseo's 39 ground balls. Union slips one of their nine goals past the tough Geneseo QOaltender. Intramural Roundup I Track: False Start ByD.D. in the 3000 meter steeplechase (9':46.9). Arhneiter reflected on his opponents' inability to withstand the grueling steeplechase event when he said, \I'd say Hawkins' (RPI) downfall was his inability to clear the barriers.\ ByDAVEPACE -sports Staff Intramural softball has been underway for two weeks already. As usual, there is an abundance of teams in the men's, c~rec, and women's leagues. The race for the men's 'A' leagu~ title should be an in- teresting one. The Beavers are the d~fending champions. The team went .undefeated in last year's regular season and beat Sigma Chi in the finals. However, the team has lost a number of key players and has many new faces. Sigyna Chi's opportunity for vengeance came on Monday night. Both teams were 1-o going into the game. The first few innings proved to be a defensive battle. However, Sigma Chi chipped away- at the Beaver defense with short base hits and had a 3-0 lead g()ing into the final inning. John Montanile and Peter Brown started off the Beaver nintil inning with singles up the middle. John Jarosak followed by beating out a ground ball hit deep to the shortstop. Steve Nowak's single with the bases loaded knocked in· Montanile and Brown and sent J arosak to third. With the infield drawn in, Jeff Martin hit a ground ball to the left side of the infield. Seeing this, John J arosak streaked home and beat the throw to the plate with the tying run. In the first extra inning, John Hartzel started a Sigma Chi rally with a .single. He was forced out at second when Joe Rutnik reached first on a fielder~s choice. John Stimmel and Gary Wenner followed with singles as Rutnik came in to score the winning run. Now it will be the Beavers who will be looking for revenge in the playoffs. Chi Psi 'A' and the Rookies should also be very strong teams in 'A' league this year. The teams faced each other last week with the Rookies sUI'- prisingly staging an easy 9-3 victory. It should prove to be a very interesting race for the '82 championship. Miller Announces Banquet The Miller Brewing Company in conjunction with DeCrescente Distributing Company of Mechanicvi lie and Mark Ziskind, the Miller campus representative, have announc~d ten- tative plans for an ·\Athlete of the Week\ banquet. Plans cal I for a banquet at the Ramada Inn of Schenectady. Each of this year's winners will be honored with a certificate to go along with the trophy they have already received. A Miller . Athlete of the Year will be awarded at the banquet. Sports Staff The Union College men's varsity track season got un- derway on Saturday, April 10, as the Dutclunen took on the RPI Engineers. Due to the inclement weather, the first meet of the outdoor season had to be held in Memorial Fieldhouse. Consequently-, three events, the javelin, d i.scus, and hammer, had to be postponed until Thursday, April 15. RPI finished Saturday's competition just six points ahead of Union. Denny Contois won two open events to lead the Dutchmen squad. Contois won both the 1500 meter run (4:03.3) and the 800 meter run (1:59.6). However, several other Dutclunen also posted early season victories. Three freshmen turned in stellar performances? George Caposi won the 50 meter dash (6.2), Bob Bertagna captured the triple jump (41' 6\) and Jeff Mickel took the top spot in the 400 meter dash (52.9). Other winners f()r Union were: Ken Holman in the 200 intermediate hurdles (27.3), Gary Wenner in the pole vault (13' (),), Bob Pavacic in the shot put (43' 7\) and· \~teady\ Eddie Arnheiter In addition to the individual winners, Union swept the relay events in the meet. The 4x1 lap relay of George Caposi, Ken Holman, Bob Stelmack, and Jeff Mickel recorded a winning time of 1:14.6. Union also crossed the line first in the one- mile relay (Stelmack, Buf- fington, Mickel, Contois) with a sizzling 3:37.7. Other Dutchmen scorers were: John Johnson, second in the 50 meter dash (6.3); Mark Dunn, second in the shot put (41' 3\); Terry Watkins, third in the high jump (5' 10\); George ;Caposi, third in the 200 meter dash (24.8 ); Bob Bertagna, third in the long jump (20' 1 \); and Dave Dellehunt, third in the 5,000 meter run (16:12.5). Yesterday, April 14, the Dutchmen hosted Hamilton · College for a dual meet and Saturday, April 17, the Dut- clunen will travel to Boston to participate in the Boston College Relays. Come. out and SUPPORT THE TRACKMEN!! c::: cv ll) :s: ll) '0 c::: :::i >- .0 0 -+- 0 .t::. c. - CXI - c::: ill ~ ll) \C c::: :J >- .0 0 0 -a AI the F Thi Stud' de lit issue comr ultirr. the 1 gove: Kil Rep:: takil AustJ posit Pres put Nog~ heca cons· Foru withi votir with men late diSCI El posi1 Wed prin1 for Grm Jeff Rep1 avo and Stud A subr Kar' give of tJ to A Jeff at Golc pref Fro pre: Goll offic Ma1 hun tent Mit, Ban SUp] equ test can rett G giv« reb pas ha\ par of Thr cen cas Gol

10 \0 c:: :::i ,.. .0. 0 0 -a lege 1877 CXI,,· No. 20 April 22, 1982 T~rus1e,es Tackle Issues AI Goldberg, general manager of WRUC, must respond to tl:le Forum's order to refund monies. By GAYLE ROSENFELJ:) Staff From Thursday, April 1~, through Saturday, .April 17, a series of Trustees' meetings was held at the College. 'Topics discussed encompassed a wide range of issues, maJJy of wllich are ·uf present concern to the Union Community. One salient matter is tllat of the future ownership of Girting Center. An option \Was sdd to this land in midm :MaJch for two three-month .periods. After this Forum Proposals Adopted By A. J. BRODSKY News Editor WRUC. Another document signed by both Goldberg and Mitchell states that WRUC was acting In a purely promotional role 1n reference to the tran- saction. The final statement was signed exclusively by Mitchell and stated that Mit- chell was responsible to Marra for the reft1nding of the monies. request by the Social: Coilliilit- tee for monies to fund Camp Union. A bottom line figure of 22,725 dollars was agreed 'Upon; the figure is to indude three to five bands, beer, proiYlotion, food ahd beer layouts, etc. The figme appeared high to some Continued on pag~ .~ six month optiol\ ends, the company which currently owns the option can negotiate for another one if it so chooses. However, the town of Niskayuna, where Girling Center is situated, has to ap- prove whatever decisiort the company makes for the usage of · the land. Therefore, the com~ pany has yet to decide on whether it wishes to buy the center outright, Which it may do at any time during its optioA, or to maintain its option in- definitely. Another affair deliberated by the Trustees was that of the energy conservation program occurring at Union. This program includes such ac- tivities as storm window in- stallment and attic insulation in various buildings on the campas. The estimated time for the improvements to pay for themselves was set at 4.2 years. Acc()rding to Will Uoyd, the Senior Student Trustee, the \energy conservation program is in full swing and is doing very well.\ · Future Hickok House dwellers should be glad to discover that over the course of the coming academic year, starting this summer, their building will be renovated. Increased room capacity as well as improved general living .conditions are to be ac- complished. Also, Hickok House, along with Raymond and Potter, will be cleared this SWillll.ei of the asbestos on their ceilings. With this removal completed, there should be no other asbestos in any of the builclings on campus. In regards to the faculty, Daniel Robbins received tenure and Brenda Wineapple became tenureable. Also, Betty Goodman re~igned as Director of the Career Center, effective June 3(), 1982. Overall, Will Lloyd com- mented that the Trustees have ''a very optimistic view right now.\ Their programs appear to be progressing well while no crucial matters have arisen to promote extreme concern. This past Sunday evening, the Student Forum met and deli.berated on several key issues affecting the campus community. The meeting was ultimately attended by fifteen of the eighteen members of the governing body. Kim No gay, Senior RepTesentative presently taking a term abroad in Austria, was removed from her position. Gary Chadick, Vice- President for Administration, put forth the proposal that Nogay be relieved of her duties because she did not fUlfill the constitutional stipulation that Forwn members must reside within the College environs. The voting tallied up to twelve for with one abstention. Several members of the Forum arrived late thus accounting for the discrepancy in the records. The central 'question per- meating_ the entire issue is c ·M • • tr R • d :o~:~~~e 0 ~~; i:o~~ta~r~ ··· · · amp.u~ ·. IBIS y · eVIVe · finish and who was involved in . Elections for the vacant position were held this past Wednesday. At the time of printing, the candidates vying for the office were Paul Grossman, Mark Meyers and Jeff Mitchell. This Senior Representative, one of three, is a voting member of the Forum · and also a participant on the Student Affairs CounciL · A controversial proposal was submitted by Junior Trustee Karen Schick concerning funds given by Mrs. Lorraine Marra of the Student Activities Office to Alan Goldberg of WRUC and Jeff Mitchell. It must be noted at this time that neither Goldberg nor Mitchell were present at the Forum meeting. From the information presented at the me·eting, Goldberg, acting within his official capacity as General Manager, withdrew three hundred dollars with the in~ tention of giving the sum to Mitchell for the \Awesome Band Party.\ The monies were supposed to be used for audio equipment rental. It was testified that the party was cancelled and the monies never returned. what capacity. The Forum is presently conducting a financial audit of WRUC .through the Finance Committee and it is possible that this issue will be addressed again. Acting Dean of Students Donald Spring ,is pursuing the matter before the Conduct Committee. Spring contends that Goldberg and Mitchell committed a breach of contract through their actions. Spring came to his conclusion as a result of. the evidence presented at the Forum meeting. Will lloyd, Senior Trustee, announced at the meeting that the Student Activity Fee would be increased for next year. The Fee is scheduled to jump 15 dollars per . year making the total yearly sum 114 dollars per student. The Student Activity Fee is used to fund the student related activities and organizations in addition to on- campus events. The an- nouncement came as a result of the Trustees' meetings this past weekend. The Forum approved a By DOUG LANDON Staff position resulted from a decision by the Protestant Minister's Board, an Campus Ministry, under the organization consisting of local direction of College Chaplains Protestant Churches along with Fr. Dennis Cox and Mr. Hugh students and faculty, who saw a Nevin, has opened a new office need for their clergy at Union. on Carnegie Hall's fourtb.,f1bor. These local churches finance The Chaplains welcome vtsits .,the position. The College does, and calls (ext. 6087) and~mll be ' ho-~ever,. s~pport t~e progl·am holding an open house,~t the .. by pr_ovidiqg off1ce sp~ce, office on Tuesday, April ·27 1 ;·'worsh.lp ~pace, r~qmred from 4:30 to 6:00p.m.. ·· , :n;atertals and cooper~tlon. Union CoUege had a stron.g t;;1;. :\B.oth ~ox and Nevm. stress tradition ·of campus ministry -thetr des1re for ~c~em~m on from its beginning until allo11t CaJnpus. The m~JJ:l~ry 1s not teri years ago when the Silliman ., expre~sly. Chrtstlan; all Hall office operatedhyClassics .. denonunatlons are urged to get professor' Norman .Johnson, involv~d. and lear.n more about closed. Religion had been the .religions Of th~mselves ~nd down played during the late their pe~rs.. N evm see~ . an sixties, and interest wane<!. Cox opportunity m campus Inlmstry and Nevin hope to revi'!ve the to .draw on the resources of your age-old .tradition. fa!th that help Y?U to share the The Chaplains, wh() are both th_mgs Y;OU have m .common an~ new to the can1pus this appreciate t~e ~1fferences. academic year, are neither !3oth feel this 1s extremely hired nor salaried b~ the 1mportant beca~e of the !arge College. Fr. Cox is on assign- n~bers of rruxed marrwges ment from the Albany Roman which occur. . . Catholic Diocese. NEvin's Cox an~ Nevm are m close contact w1th Professor Berk of the History Department, a Hillel advisor, and Debbie _J Feldman, Hillel President, to anticipate the needs of Union's Jewish population. Also, the ministry keeps aware of Christian Fellowship activities through faculty advisor Professor Scaife of Chemistry and president Cheryl Harkness. They support all human con- cerns for justice and peace, including the Student Envir<>nmental Alliance, Woman's Network, B.L.A.S. and the Student Gay Discussion Group. According to the Reference Manual - DiQcese of Albany: \from such mutual effort on behalf of the needs of mankind, there will hopefully !!merge a greater appreciation and understanding for the traditions of others, and elimination of historical suspicion and prejudices and a more intense desire for unity.\ The Chaplains point out that all ecumenical worship services on-cannpus are done with ap- proval of the respective churches. Campus ministry can serve as an alternative to one's home parish while he or she is at school, and a complement to Continued on page .2 .,.,:N· .. : .... ···s······ ... t··.·o·······e··· ·, ::' ' :..· ' .••,. : .. ; . ' ' . :<,_. :' ·- '. - • _. · ftA. Appointments Featvres Mountebanks Produet ion Editoria·ls p. 2 pp. 4 & 5 p.7 pp. 8 & 9 p. 12 p. 14 Goldberg and Mitchell were given until Friday, April 23, to return the funds under the passed proposal. Questions 3 have been raised by both ...... parties concerning the validity ~ of certain facts presented. o Three documents have become o central to the conflict. One is the a cash request form signed by Goldberg and consequentially Hugh Nevin is one of the chaplains instrumental in the revival of the '?n-campus Ministry.

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, April ·es, 198! B.A.'s Selected By MARCY BURSTINER Staff This past weekend, the Resident Advisor Selection Committee completed their selection process for R.A. ap- pointments. The Selection Corrunittee, m 'lde up of ap- proximately 24 students, was a combination of senior R.A.s and non-R.A.s. These students, who were chosen by the Residence Life Office, went through a two hour training session which involved role playing in in· terviews and developing in- terview techniques. The Committee was then broken down into subgroups of two students, one male and one female, and each was assigned ten R.A. candidates. The subgroups met with their candidates collectively in a second meeting and made arrangements at that time for individual interviews. The interviewing process consisted of meetings between the subgroup and the candidate, the candidate and his or her R.A., and, finally, the subgroup and the candidate's R.A. If a can:- didate happened to be a member of a Greek organization, he or she was assigned an R.A. Each can- didate must also have sub- mitted a sponsor recom- mendation. After the subgroup gathered all the information, it submitted a recommendation placing the candidate in one of three categories; Recommended, Questionable, or Not Recom- mended. To be placed in the Recommended category im- plied that the subgroup had no question whether the candidate would make a good R.A. To be listed as Not Recommended, meant that the candidate's R.A., sponsor and subgroup did not believe that that individual would be an appropriate R.A. Last year, according to William (Chip) Morris, Resident Student Development Coordinator, the sponsor was interviewed and the candidate's R.A. submitted a form. This method, stated Morris, was not as effective for the sponsors tended to be less objective than the present R.A.s. He explained that not many candidates end up on the Not Recommended list, for it is rare to find _a_ candidate whom everyone finds questionable. Once the ·recommendations are in, the Committee reviews each applicant separately. Committee members first .go through the Recommended list and if any . member has any question at all about that in· dividual, he is placed on the Questionable list. All can- didates left unquestioned are automaticalty accepted. The Committee then reviews the Questionable list alphabetically and the subgroups give their reports. If any member has any pertinent facts about a particulat can- didate, he is allowed to share that information. Morris ex- plained: \we're very tight on what's allowed. You have to have firsthand knowledge of something, either having witnessed it yourself, or having had the candidate telling you he'd done something. They can't say things like 'during the interview I just got a bad feeling ... ! '-we don't allow that.\ No rumors are allowed a'nd members are not permitted to bring up any thing that hap- pened in past years added Morris. After all the candidates are reviewed a vote is taken and the final appointments are made. Some of the qualities looked for in applicants were the abilitities to be friendly and approachable. Additionally, candidates needed a good working knowledge of the campus and also an easy going nature. According to Morris, the most difficult part of being an R.A. is \being both a friend and authoritarian.\ Thus, candidates also had to have the ability to tell people when not to do something. RESIDENT ADVISORS FOR ,82-'83 FEMALE Bloomberg, Susan Cogan, Carla (HRA) Dun bar, Jennifer Gereau, Gigi (HRA) Hanretta, Carol Holt, Mary Hudson, Michele Isgro, Julie (HRA) Lewkowicz, Corinne Lu, Ruth Meyer, Beth Pavacic, Dianne Persico, Gina Redmond, Randi Stern, Vivian V ardakas, Kim Wilkinson, Cynthia MALE Avery, Kent ' Beckerman, Joey Boyd, Alan Breen, Timothy Carl, John Carroll, James (HRA) Cohen, Barry Forbes, Peter Halse, Peter Hedman, Greg Kline, Michael Larsen, Steven Patalita, David (HRA) Sage, Mark Schulam, Peter Scibilia, Richard Sullivan, Stephen Taylor, Robert (HRA) Tils, Barry Tuchman, Larry Will, Thomas Wool, Peter (HRA) Proposals Adopted Continued from page 1 members, but those in doubt were reassured by the fact that money will come back from the sales of refreshments and novelties. This measure passed unanimously. Last on the agenda was a discussion of the Record Hop and its rate scale and lump sum funding. A fee of fifty-five dollars will be charged by those renting the service. The Forum did not approve' a lwnp sum capital investment of 340 dollars. Ch~plains Active Continued from page 1 involvement with local chur- ches in Schenectady. Both chaplains hold w:orship services weekly in the 'fourth floor loWtge of Carnegie Hall. Catholic Mass with Fr. Cox is scheduled to start at 6:45 p.m. on Saturdays, and Campus Protestant Fellowship at 7:00 p.m. on Sundays. Cox and Nevin hope for a good turnout at their open house next week and invite all students to bring their families to the combined Catholic and Protestant service on Parents' Weekend, Sunday, May 9, at 10:00 p.m. Women Attend Panel This past Saturday. ap- proximately 160 women at- tended workshop panels and listened to speakers who discussed ''Frontiers: Women in SCience and Engineering.\ The aU-day conference achieved the goals and ob- jectives that its planners had designed for it, namely to provide information for women interested in careers in the science and engineering disciplines. The workshops covered the subjects of opportunities and employability, the career break, and the various lifestyles available to the woman who decides to pursue such a career. The fields that came Wider the auspices of the workshop were: computer science, mathematics, engineering, chemistry, biology, ex- perimental medicine, psychology, and the social sciences. The panelists came from varied backgrounds and represented a broad spectrum of ages, marital status, and of course, occupation. Some representative professionals were ()rganic chemists, genetic counsellors, electrical engineers and academicians. Those on the panels-were not only able to provide information for those in ·attendance but were able to exchange ideas and attitudes among themselves; they too carne away from the workshop with the feeling that they had learned and ex- perienced something new. At the end of the conference,. the women with a background in the sciences or engineering, who are Gurtently unemployed or underemployed, were offered a choice of one or more con- tinuing activities designed to facilitate re-entr:'Y into their profession or help them evaluate -different career op- .tions. In addition to having the opportunity to attend the panels,. the participants heard ·two very distinguished and· knowledgeable speakers. The keynote speaker, Ms. Betty Vetter. spoke on \Opportwtities for Women to Advance the Frontiers in Science and Engineering.'' Ms. Vetter, the Executive Director of the Continuing activities include Scientific Manpower Com· a one day visit With a scientist mission, mentioned that or engineer at his-her place of .although opportunities are employment, a scholarship to better than they had been over enroll in one free credit courst the past 15 years, . and irn- · (llmited) or a four-session proving, they are still nQt\equal evening warksh()p on to men. · · \Designing a Resume and According to Ms. Vetter, the· Interviewing Skills.'' .pay differences between men , · The workshop was first . and women in the scien!!:~s, as-a. conceived when ProJessor whole, increase at tbe -higher Margaret Schadler and several salary levels. The speaker tried st)ldents , visited Williams to·be optimistic about tne ;future, College two years ago to attend of women in these discfplip~s--'~ .. a siffiilar~conference. Professor while at the same time :.;;;·Sehadfer came back to Union acknowledging that the- job with the idea of sponsoring such market is not favorable, and it a conference opportunity at will not be easy to procure· a job, Union. As project director, she regardless of sex, training or organized a steer~g committee age. composed of faculty, staff, and The opening address was students to plan, implement, given by Dr. Roland Schmitt, a and run the conference. Fun- Vice President and Director of ding was provided by a grant Corporate Research and from the National Science Development '-at General Foundation and a grant from Electric. Dr. Schmitt, a Trustee Union College. of Union College, spoke on the characteristics of a good scientist. ·.He mentioned curiosity, observation skills .• and a realistic approach,~ riot excl11ding creativity, as some characteristics that are desirable. The day was long, but ex- tremely satisfying, for all in- volved. Both the participants and panelists felt that the conference had been very successful and well worth the effort. Applications for the following committees are still available tomorrow in the Student Activities Office. They must be returned to that office no later than Friday, April 23rd. The appointments will ·be effective for the '82-'83 academic year. Anyone interested in being a chairperson for coilllhittees 11·17 (see list below) please be sure to indicate such desire on your application. 1. Committee on Conunittees 10. Research and Grant Sub-Council 2. Finance Committee 11. Student Conduct Committee 3. Student Affairs Council 12. Concert Committee 4. Academic Affairs Council 13. Social Committee 5. Admissions Liaison Committee 14. Elections Committee 6. Planning and Priorities Committee 7. Union University Representative 8. Residence Life Conunittee 15. Film Committee 16. Speakers Forum 17. Traffic and Pet Court 9. Athletic Liaison Committee DESCRIPTION OFCOMMITI'EES 1. CoC: Recommends to the Student Forum all committee appointments as well. as club con- stitutions. 2. Finance Committee: Reconunends to the Forum the allocation of student activities funds. In addition, the committee is responsible for the monitoring of such budgets. . · 3. Student Affairs Council: Is responsible for continuously reviewing policy and formulating and recommending plans for student housing, dining-services, student center. health services, counseling services, career counseling and placement and for setting policy for student conduct. 4. Academic Affairs Councn: Composed of the Deans of Undergraduage and Graduate Curriculums, 7 faculty members and students, thiS council reviews the curriculum of the College, making reco~endations for course ~d program change~, as well as reviewing such thil}gs as the Liberal Learning Program~ and reqmreme1_1ts for all maJors.. . 5. Liaison Committee for Admissions: A member of thiS coimmttee serves as a student representative to the Admissions committee. This committee, whi~h consists of faculty a~d. ad- ministrators, reviews admissions ptocedure.and makes recommendations to the. Dean of Adnuss10ns and to the President ot the College. . 6. Planning & Priorities: Reviews and recommends to the President policies concerning long-range planning, the establishl:nent of college priorities and the preparation of annual budgets. Students should be interested in the future of the school. , 7. Up.ion University Representative: One student represents Union College in open discussions with representatives from Albany Law, Albany Medical College, Albany CoUege of Pharmacy and Dudley Observatory. 8. Residence Ufe Committee: Makes reconunendations to the Director of Residence Life on 'Residence Hall policy. Iqaddition, the eommittee is d.ire~tly involyed in the roo~ lottery (spring). 9. Liaison Committee for Athletics: Members shall adviSe the Dll'ector of Athletics on all matters of concern to the athletic program, including inter-collegiate athletic pJ;ograms, club sports, in- tramural and recreational programs, women's programs and instruction in athletic skills and sports. This committee participates in.discussions of general policy, .in a review of program nee~, in the · analysis of budgetary priorities, and in bringing the concerns of the student body to the Director of Athletics. , -.~ . 10. Research and Grant Sub-Connell: Provides student input to a faculty-administrative board m determining who is to receive such grants. - 11. Stlldent Conduct Committee: Conducts hearings and recommends disciplinary action to the Administration in cases of student misconduct. 12. Concert Committee: Plans and organizes major campusmsponsored concerts. 13. Social Committee: Plans and organizes major campus social events including Winter Carnival and Camp Union. , . . . . 14 Elections Committee: Administers all. campus-wtde elections. 15: Film Committee: Plans and organizes all films to b~ shown on campus. 16. Speakers Forum: Contracts for speakers and o~g!ill~es a~l such events on ~aml?us. . . 17. Traffic and Pet Court: Hears all appeals of traffic v1olatwns and-or pet violations (I.e., pets m dorms). ; For further information please contact a member of the Committee' on Committees. The conduc '24. The • assign . class ~ '. compu · nurnbe ·. classe~ ··compu · rando11 ··that if throug size fo• done f the ex new st Men Life ~ · eligibl, Res Skll Car Lou pat I Car Rrn and SUJJ Car Altt Tht

OONCORDIENBISJ .April flSJ 198S Page 8 Room Lottery The housing lottery will .be . conducted from May 11 to May card (lottery l!ard) bearing the co-ops on April 28. Members of . 24. student's name, ID number, the Residence Life Staff· will . The computer will randomly and lottery number. The answer all questions about the · assign numbers to students by student must present his-her ID co-op lottery. The remainder of ·class year. That is to say, the and pick up his-her lottery card the campus housing. will be · • computer randomly assigns JN PERSON. Only students selected according to class year · numbers to members of the presenting IDs will receive . a and by the lottery number classes of 83, 84, and 85. The lottery card.· If it is impossible assigned to each student. · computer then translates the . for a student to pick up his-her Singles LOttery: · random number to a nwnber lottery card that nightr the The senior with the lowest · · that is understandable - one student may do so at the lottery number wiU have first through 300 ... roughly the class Residence Life Office the next choice of available singles. The size for each year. This will be day. senior with the next lowest • done for each class year with The selection of available ·on- lottery number will have the the exception of the incoming campus housing will be divided second choice. If some singles new students. into three categories: co-ops, have not been selected and Members ·Of the Residence singles, and doubles and suites. there are no more seniors Life Staff will distribute to There will be a meeting to present, the junior present with , eligible students a computer explain the selection process for the lowest lottery nwnber will L..-----------------------.., have first choice of the remaining .singles. This process CAREER CENTER WORKSHOPS Resume Wrlting;..Thurs., April 22, 3:30p.m., Career Center Skllls Identification-Tiiurs., April22, 6:30p.m., Career Center Careers in Computer Science-Tues., April 27, 7:00, 4th Fl. Lounge, Carnegie. Professionals discuss their jobs, career paths, and career options in their field. Careers in Engineering-Wed., April28, 7:00p.m., Conf~rence Rm. A, Carnegie. Professionals.discuss their jobs, career pathst and career options in their field. . Snmmer Job Search Strategies-Thurs., April 29, 3:30 p.m., Career Center. Alternative Job Search Strategies for Full-Time Employment- Thurs., April 29, 6:30 p.m., Career Center:. INTERNSHIPS Internships in Environmental Politics ?Jith. the E:r.wiro~ental Pl~nning Lobby in Albany. Information ts av&lable m the . , ~areer Center. will continue until all singles have been selected. Double and Suite Lottery: The lottery for doubles and suites will conclude the process. The senior lottery will be held first, followed by the junior . lottery and finally the sophomore lottery. The class· member present with the lowest lottery number will have first pick. The class member with · the next lowest lottery nwnber, and present, will follow. When a suite or double is selected, all roommates MUST be present and aH MUST SIGN CON· TRACTS. The room or suite will be placed back into the lottery if any of the roommates do not signethe contract when the room or suite is selected. All oc- cupants of a room or suite who are found to have cheated will lose any right to the room or suite. Additionally, the per· son(s) who cheated·wmbe.fined YOU'VE-STILL GOT-TIME TO ... . 'PICK COULD YOUR CAMPUS GHOU P USE A QUICK $500-$1 ,000? YOU'VE GOT THE TIME ... WE'VE GOT THE PLAN! Miller Brewing Company and our local distributor are conducting an exciting six week contest on your campus. Your organization could Cjualify for one of the three $1.000.00 or three $500.00 cash awards. Winners will be determined at the conclusion of the contest So remember, make your next pick up a Miller High Life. Lite or Lowenbrau. Quality pays off in many ways\ Con- tact your local Miller Campus Rep for 111ore details. $100. Points of interest: class standing is detennined by tile number of credits received at the end of winter term - no exceptions; you must be on campus all of spring term to participate in the lottery. Resource Room Looking for graduate school financial assistance? Hope to supplement the aid offered by Union for your undergraduate studies? The Financial Aid Res-ource Room is now available to help you in your search. The Resource Room will be open for research week· days from 10-12 and 1-4. You will find bibliographies, reference manuals, application materials, and guidebooks to help you locate additional assistance. Were your parents in the military? Where do they work? Are they members of a trade group or association, a patriotic, civic or fraternal organization? Are you a member of a club or organization? Have a special talent? What is your religion, nationality, ancestry, career interest? Scholarships and loans are available if you meet specific criteria. Are you in- terested in study abroad? Many foreign governments offer aid to American students. No-need scholarships, working traineeships, and low-interest loan information is available. Plan to spend an hour as materials cannot be circulated. It you need more information, or just want to browse, stop in to the Financial Aid Office. Ellen F.rishberg, the Associate Director, will direct you on the use of the resources and anwer any questions you may have . Parents' Weekend Attention Campus Com- munity!!.! It's not too late to purchase tickets .for the exciting events of Parents' Weekend, May 7, 8, and 9. Representatives of the Parents' Weekend Committee are presently selling · tickets on a first come-first served basis in Carnegie Hall. Don't pass up the opportunity to hear F. Lee Bailey speak Friday night at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Admission to the speaker is $2.00 per person. Treat your family to the big band sound of Jimmy Dorsey on Saturday evening for the price of $2.50 per person. This ticket also inclUdes admission to the Glee Club concert in Memorial Chapel at 8:00 p.m. that same evening. Free tickets are still available for the movie, \Arthur to be shown Friday, Saturday and Sunday evening at 7, 9, and 11:00 p.m. in SS016. You won't want to miss the student produced musical play entitled \Student Bodies\ to be held May 6 and May 7 at 8:00 p.m. and May 8 at 9:00 p.m. Tickets for this play will soon go on sale at a cost of $2.00 for students and $3.00 for other family members. By now your parents have received a schedule of the Parents' Weekend activities. Seeking your family's par- ticipation in these festivities is an ideal way to introduce them to the Union College Com· munity. Don't hesitate to purchase your tickets now! ! ! ! MID-POINT STANDINGS 1) Chi Psi 2) Delta Upsilon 3) Sigma Delta Tau 4) Phi Sigma Kappa 5) Psf Upsilon 6) Zeta Beta Tau Pick·u1ps every Tuesclay ahemoon Mark Ziskind 382-9272 Chris McMorrow 382 .. 9272

Page 4 c 0 :;::: .!!1 u 0 Ill Ill <( E ::J c: E ::J <i <1J .£: .... )>. .c 0 0 .t:. a. 'I i l l I CONCORDIENSIS, April!!,. 198! features Car Re,stored range, was introduced. Charles Steinmetz, a member of the Union Electrical Engineering faculty £rom 1902 to 1923, was a lengendary General Electric . Company scientist perhaps best 'known for his invention of artificial lighting. He was a strong supporter of electric vehicles, and in 1917 founded his own company to produce them: The Steinmetz Electric Car Com- pany. Professor David Ullman poses with the classic car restored by Union students. Ten years ago, a tremendous project was undertaken on this campus, a project which is of great historic significance. It was under the direction of former Union College Engineering Professor Thomas Hoffman and Mechanical Engineering Professor David Ullman; dozens of Union students worked on it. A 1914 Detroit Electric car, on·ce owned by Charles P. Steinmetz, was completely and pain- stakingly renovated. Now fully operable, the car was publicly dedicated after being displayed during ReUni()n activities on campus thiS past June. The Detroit Electric was found, apparently abandoned, in a field in Glenville, New York. It was discovered by Robert Morris in 1964 and sold to the college in 1971. The restored automobile was exhibited at the Schenectady Museum and was one of its main attractions. In addition, it was driven in two local parades and displayed at two antique automobile exhibits. Union is currently hoping to house the Detroit Electric on campus permanently; the Steinmetz building is the site being con- sidered. Sha.ffer Library: A Monotonous Place? The Detroit Electric is one of the few existing examples of a pioneering technology . which enjoyed a brief vogue in the early Y,ears of automotive history. The vehicle is steered with a tiller ratherthan a wheel; can travel about 30 miles on a single charge and can attain a top speed of about 25 miles- hour. The electric car fell out of favor when the gas powered car, offering greater speed and By DAVE FITZGERALD Staff When you think of Shaffer Library, a quiet place with thousands of books probably comes to mind. For the most part the majority of students probably feel that the librarians spend their days calmly taking care of the books and students. If something truly unusual happened most students probably think that the librarians would not know what to do. Actually the unusual is the usual for the staff at Shaffer Library. When the librarians were asked about strange events and people the first strange person that came to mind was the \Cape Lady.\ This woman always wore the· same black dress, a sunken hat, and a black and red checked cape. The best description of her that was given was that she looked like \the Wicked Witch of the West or Sherlock Holmes.\ This lady would come into the library so she could investigate things for heF book. Although nobody can be certain her book must have been imaginary because the pen that she said that she used to write with never had any ink in it. Another thing that she did was edit the history books because \they were wrong.\ Finally the librarians had to have her removed permanently because she was swatting students with her cape. If the cape lady didn't seem strange to you then how does the fact that in recent years four separate incidents of flashing, streaking, or whatever you want to call it have occurred. Today, for a naked human body to be even noticed there has to be something unique about it. In fact cases of male flashers are so common that one librarian commented to an alleged Students By DEBORAH PETRILLO Two Union Mechanical Engineering students won first and second prizes in the speaking contest of the ASME Regional Conference, which was held recently at the University of Maryland. Gary St. Onge won first place for his discussion of the windmill he designed and built. Thomas Loestina won second prize for his talk on the magnetic coupling system he designed. Gary and Tom won in a field of about 40 competitors from schools such as Lehigh, RPI, RIT, Univ. of Rochester, etc. Tom Loestina also won the Union·RPI Speaking Contest,· held by the local senior ASME pervert \Close thaUrenchcoat, I've seen better than that!\ somewhere in the library, when you least expect it, someone will say to you \Hey You!.\ When you turn around to see who called to your surprise you will be FLASHED. Of course the classic event that will never be forgotten was truly creative. It was a quiet but tense evening during Spring Term finals week. The night began normally with no ex- ceptions bes1des the larger number of students present because of finals. Then the sound of a motorcycle could be heard but it r'eally didn't bother anyone. Then the front and ''all night study\ doors opened, but The Way It Was. •• • no body entered. The sound of the motorcycle became louder. Suddenly a motorcycle with a driver \in the buff\ entered -from the all night study section. He drove his bike to the center of the main lobby of the library~ raced his engine for a . few moments, and then rode into the night. One librarian commented about the incident \that even though the library is not the place to ride one's motorcycle in the nude, it was a great ten- sion reliever. ;rn fact everyone clapped for the overexposed mystery rider.\ Even if you can't believe these stories it should be noted that they really are true. The stories that were told are just the tip of the iceberg. Not mentioned are the many stories of how people try to steal books. One person went as far as to fake having a heart attack after she was caught at the gate. Although it is true that things that are truly strange do not happen everyday they do happen at regular intervals such as on full moons. The majority of people that you Will find in the library are ordinary students just studYing or socializing. Probably half of the odd occurrences are not even caused by Union students at all. One of the flashers was a By PAUL GIRSDANSKY Staff I think that it was sometime in 1980 when I first saw the words in a Freshman Record or a Union Book or some thing like that. They were written by Provost Huntley or President Martin· or somebody important like that. I really can't remember the words, but I think they went something like this: \I remember back a few years ago when one wol,lld pass another on campus and .say 'hello to the other and inquired of the other's welfare, and the courtesy would be reciprocated. This would be done whether or not the two people knew each other. That time seems to have passed. Wouldn't it be good if they returned?\ I remember mulling the words through my mind for what seemed to be an inordinate period of time. Over the years I've tried to find that paragraph again and again, but it .seems to be forever gone like a buried treasure whose map has been lost. · Thank you, author; whoever and wherever you are. I think you because my memory of your words have taught me more than any textbook that I have read yet. The question that I have pursued in the last few weeks is, \Why are these times no more, and how can we make these times return?\ At least superficially, the first half of the question is quite easy to· answer: The people of our age at Union College are· more suspicious ·and cynical than they used to be. Why? Why isn'tthesharing of membership in our campus community ample cause for us to be friendly, or at least civil, to each other\? Here are some guesses: Perhaps the answer lies in the increased competitiveness of the recession-plagued late-70's and early-80's. To many, there is an uncomfortable feeling that our neighbor's achievement may be the attainment that will deny us our !}lace in the sun at Harvard Law, IBM or, for the less academically inclined of us, the University of Southwest Lower Saskatchewan Graduate School. Maybe the answer lies in technology where 92-FLY says our \Good Morning\ to the universe for us, so we do not . have to exert precious energy to do so ourselves. Possibly it is the relatively new co-educational nature of the College that allows sexual tensions to permeate the· already almost unbearable academic stresses. · Or, perhaps it is modern demographics. Children today are growing up in a more congested arena than any generation ever before. If there are too many people to $ay hello to ·an, perhaps our ' thi.l:lkihg prohibits us·from lleittgfriendly to any except for the closest of friends. At this rate, will homicide become-an acceptable way of relieving aggressions by the year 2022? Whatever the cause is, it is probably easiest to attack the problem by attacking the symptom rather than the root. Through all of the distrust, there is one thing that every one of us can do to. make our little slice of the pie a better place to be. I think you are getting to my drift. Try this out and see how you like it: Say hello for the simple reason of saying hello. Do it without using it as an ulterior motive for getting a recom- mendation, getting laid, getting an invitation to a party, or getting an A- instead of getting a B+. You might even find it to be rewarding. By the way, I almost forgot t<> ask . . . How are you today? for. eman at G.E. But you should. I be careful because someday, Honored V a tiki otis To Speak section. The Department of Mechanical Engineering and the ASME student section would like to contratulate Gary and Tom Jon their outstanding achievement. The ASME student chapter is proud to announce that its new officers are: Frank Skorina, Chairman; Tony Carbone, Vice- Chairman; Jim Bendick, Secretary; and Laurie Corkum, Treasurer. Outgoing . officers are Steve Crimi, Chairman; John Manuel, Treasurer; and Deb Petrillo, Secretary. A party honoring Gary and Tom, and the engineering picnic will close out an acttve year for Union's ASME chapter. CNB-Professor P. J. Vatikiotis, one of the foremost authorities on Middle Eastern politics, will discuss \Peace or War: The Middle East After Sadat\ on Monday, April 26, at Union College. His talk will begin at 8 p.m. in Social Sciences 016, and faculty and students are welcome to attend. Vatikiotis teaches Middle Eastern politics at the School of Oriental and African Studies at the University Qf L<>ndon. He has been a visiting professor at Union and at Princeton, and he is the author -of The Egyptian Army In Polltics and A History of Modern Egypt. He is also founder of the Institute of Middle Eastern Studies in Athens. V atikiotis is currently lec- turing at Indiana ~niversity, where he formerly taught. His presentation at Union is the first Anwar Sadat Peace Lecture, sponsored by the College History Department. The Sadat lecture series was established -.WE DELIVER_; 374-1888 . with the aid of a gift from Union alumnus Fredric S. Miller of Wayne, N.J., to help promote an understanding of Anwar Sadat and his policies. 464State St. Schenectady, NY s. \~ that ()fill are; willi (the Thor the acti~ Envi aske the cam that info I sequ on viro1 fulle a bill SEA Non of L men Com wri pres Nob Apri Low Jacl mor inti Ac bas] \sp• con< of i Bott eve: four mer an topi· fol11 pre: info tens shal forr A 1 p of 1 finl apJ '] vei of 1 sel an• wh at wi1 wa ME ~~ up ru: E as: Yc th• Ur on ba tb co te UI1 sp Li of th si1 c~ PI Sll be w C<

l OONOORDIEN8I8. April SS, 198B Page 5 features S.E.A. Conservation Week By THOMAS CHING Staff does their utmost to provide infonnation to the public, there are, .unfortunately ''many who are ignorant or misinformed in several areas'' despite the attention and publicity. He~ites the recent petitions against Secretary of the Interior James Watt and the Bottle Bill in which more than \6~ percent of the people encountered who were approached cUd not comprehend the situation,\ the \right to pollute\ to be transferred from various departments and companies. These transfers would allow an ''underpolluting'' division to subsidize or buffer another division thus insuring that the limits are not exceeded. Undoubtedly the Student Environmental Alliance is an active group .in the campus niche. However, the SEA like the Adirondack Research Center is often underused. Since they are geared to educating tbe campus community, active participation from the campus community is required to ensure this transfer of environmental issues. Without any sentiments or sense of corniness, a college is the prime utopia for tran- sferring views, ideas and topics and a strong and active alliance such as the SEA should be used to the fullest extent. The Thornas Nitido and Larry Noviasky are co-chairpersons of the S.E.A. members of the SEA group are obviously well intoned with cWTent environmental events and are willing to share this knowledge with tlleir fellow Union colleagues. \We operate on the premise that if people don't apprec(ate or aren't aware of (things) that are going on then they're less willing to .protect and react to it (the environment)\ remarked Thomas Nitido, co-chairman of the campus environmental action group Student Environmental Alliance. When asked to comment on the role the organization fills in the campus niche, Nitido stressed that SEA's main activity is to inform its members and sub- sequently the rest of the campus on relevant issues and en- vironmental threats to their fullest financial and personal abilities. Throughout his week, SEA Is sponsoring a lecture QY Norman Valkenburgh, Director of. Land and Forestry Depart- ment of the Environmental Conservation, holding a letter writing-protest session, presenting the .film The Land Nobody Knows on Thursday, April 27 at 7:30 at Strauss Lounge, staging a breakfast at Jackson's Gardens Friday morning and a recycling event in the late afternoon. Other than lobbying and petitioning, SEA often presents lectures and films. In the past, they have presented In Our Water, a social documentary on water pollution and toxic waste dispesal and To Breed Or Not to Breed on nuclear fusion-fission. In addition, several members of SEA are participating in the Walk-A-Thon for the Bottle Bill sponsored by the New York Public Interest Group. The Walk-A-Thon begins Wed- nesday and starts from Scotia to Albany via T\'oy. The Alliance is also in contact and subscribes to the newsletters, membership .subscriptions of the Natural Resources Defense Council Friends of Earth and the un- derused Adirondack Research Center in Schaffer Library. Furthermore, SEA conducts the biweekly recycling paper refuse at the various dormitories and departments. Sororities Reevaluated According to Nitido, SEA is basically a group of \specialized individuals\ each concentrating in a certain field of interest ranging from the Bottle Bill and toxic wastes. At every Weqnesday evening, fourth floor Carnegie meeting, a member volunteers to research an evnironmentally-concenred topic and present a talk the following week. These presentations of distributing information are a further ex- tension of their goal to \to share, learn and provide in- formation.'' Although the group Currently, the Alliance is concerned about the fate of the Clean Air Act which regulates the waste output of industrial plants. One Catch~22 provision of the act is that companies must adhere to certain assigned amounts of pollutants which can be emitted from the.ir smokestacks. But, according to an adamant opposer of the bill and SEA member, Ian McGiver, the bill also allows for A Richard Simmons Story: By LINDA SUER Staff Last week's Concordlensis (April 15, 1982) published the CPS article entitled \Sorority Life Dated?'' to see what type of responses it would receive. The article, which stated University .of Washington's Professor Barara Riseman's results of a study of the effect sorority life has upon women, has received overwhehning disagreement from the sororities of Union College. Riseman's key con- clusion that \sorority life reinforces old stereotypes of women and may actually hinder them when they leave\ is directly opposed to what most 1/8 Ton And Counting? By PAUL GIRSDANSKY Staff As I begin this essay, the third of the eight weeks of my diet is finished. At this juncture, it appears that I shall sing. Things were rolling along very well for the first two weeks of the diet. Then depression and self doubt hit me last Thursday, and I deteriorated to the point where I found myself ensconced at Friendly's Ice Cream Parlor with a Hot Fudge Sundae that was quoted as saying, \Eat Me.\ rFor the first two weeks I kept up with my classes and my running and maintained a caloric intake of less than fif- teen hundred a day. I even managed to run four miles one day. Then came the ruin. When I ate, I turned into a glutton. When I rested, I turned into ·1:1 beached whale. When I called Professor Schwartz to ask about an assignment, he said, \Oh you do exist l \ By Sunday, I was back on the track. I ran a mile and I was pleased to see that I gained only llh pounds since the ,previous Wednesday, going up to 237 pounds. I celebrated by running five miles. I stayed under 1200 calories. I even cracked the book voraciously on COBOL. Feeling smug I walked into the Health Center. I was underwhelmed. After 24 hours of . virtue, I gained two pounds. I now stand at 239 pounds, leaving me with 26¥z to lose in 35 days. If you were curious, donations have been coming in regularly. Even so, volunteers will be around in the next week to solicit contributions. More on that next week. If you can give, fine. If ou can't ... try not to notice the hull's eyes that the solicitors will be painting upon your door. Baseball Terininology It seems reasonable to assume (if this were the _New York Times I'd find out) that there are probably very few Union Students who have not at one time or another witnessed a baseball game. Yet, it seems that many observers are often confused when watching a televised game. It is an unavoidable fact of life that sportscasters (not to mention Lindsay Nelson's wardrobe) often tends to overstate themselves. Hoping to make the situation· less confusing to the casual fan, Concordlensls presents the reader with a small sample of the language of the baseball sportscaster, along with a loose translation into conunon English. fan-anyone who can explain the infield fly rule. a beautiful day for baseball- there is a tornado watch in effect for the surrounding counties but there has not yet been a rain delay. superstar--anything that makes over $50,000 a year. clutch player-he got a hit last night. a journeyman-he got a hit last year. a real trooper-this is a fonn of advance warning to a ballplayer to begin packing his things; he will probably be traded or sold within the hour. waivers-an injured trooper. living legend-a trooper who has just retired. 7th tnntng stretch-that time fu the game during which many thousands of fans ingest, digest, and egest beer. intense rivalry-~the teams have played before. bitter rivalry--one of the teams is the Yankees. bigh .scoring game-the home team has scored four runs. pitcher's duel-the other team has scored four runs. a fan's ballgame-a boring ballgame. an exciting ballgame-there was a streaker. . Holy Cow!-can mean antying from \Jackson has just hit one into the right field seats!\ to ''my Jockey shorts are really riding up on me!\ Context is important. Union College sorority sisters believe their involvement has done for them. Tenner, a Tti-Delt sister, says she printed the article because she found it ridiculous and was · curious to see how others would respond. Tenner feels that Tri- Delt has taught her leadership and organizational skills. She noted that a primary emphasis of Tri-Delt is scholarship and academics accomplishment, not traditional female goals. Tenner admits that Tri-Delt has sponsered faculty cocktail parties at which the women must act as hostesses; however, she believes the abilities to organize and host a successful party are skills which everyone should acquire. Robin Smuckler, an SOT sister, also disagreed with the article. In response to Riseman's conclusion that \sorority members typically knew to a subordinate role in the greek system, waiting to be asked to social events and allowing males to pay for them while using coquettish behavior to progress . . .,'' Smuckler indicated that a sorority is a large organization of diverse wonnen and everyone behaves differently. Citing their date parties, where the women must Commuters: ' ask their own dates, as examples, Smuckler noted that sorority women d() not wait for men to ask them to social events any more or less often than their independent classmates. Tenner, Smuckler and Johanna Briggs, a DG sister, admitted that while the coquettish behavior and stereotypes Riseman found are not true at Union College, they are true in the South. Briggs said that a glance at ~he Anchora, the national magazine evidences the type of sorority women depicted by Riseman. All three women said that either they or their field secretaries have spoken with members of Southern chapters and the Riseman's sororities do exist. Briggs said that she knows women who are mem- bers of Southern University sororities where the women are not allowed to speak with sisters of other houses or men who do not belong to fraternities. Thus, it appears that although Riseman's findings on the ef- fects of sorority life on college women are not true at Union . College in Schenectady, New York, they are true in the South where the overwhelming majority of sororities reside. Strange Breed? By DEBRA MOSES Staff Have you ever sat through a class with someone who has a disconcerting air about him- her? Have you wondered, perhaps, why this individual never speaks to the other members of the class. or why you' do not see this person outside of the classroom? Or, if you have experienced neither of the aforementioned, have you noticed that the same people always seem to be suspiciously \hanging out\ at either the library of the Pub glancing shiftily in this direction or that? If you answered any of these questions in the affirmative, then most likely you have en- countered one of the strange and frightening individuals who are fondly called \Commuter Students.\ It is advisable never to communicate with this type of student; one can never be sure just what he-she will do or say. Should you inadvertently establish eye contact with a commuter student, quickly look away, and pretend it never happened. It is important to remember that these persons are not really members of the Union student body; they should be afforded neither the numerous privileges nor the facilities of our campus which they currently enjoy. The commuter parking lot, for example, takes up so large an area of valuable campus space that it seems the commuters are taking over. Surely the potholes could be put to some better use which would benefit the bulk of our student population. I could enUmerate a variety of such privileges, but so many exist that it is difficult to decide which ones to select. Let me put it this way; Be a good samaritan-take a com- muter to lunch.

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, April SB, 198S ~rts & Culture MUMMENS(HI\NZ M. Atwood On Poetry .A Sunday, May 2, 1,982, 3:00 p,m. •nd8:00 p.m. ~·~· ..,.,. Tickets: $12.50, 10, 7.50 lit 1\..:.X X •t\. )!.)':~ Available at Proctor's Schenectady. 432 State Street, • ,!~' \• \• · •- J (518-346-8204.) and CBO Outlets Colome (518-458-7>.;30.), ' ~ Plaza (518-473-8122) and Troy (518-272-419-1) Group discounts ·~-·------~-·--,_r__ l Albany Art Exhibition NONE OF THE ABOVE, an Albany-based association of artist-s, will produce its second exhibition, WATER WORK, April 30-May 2 at Public Bath Nwnber Two, located at 90 Fourth Street at South Pearl Street, Albany. Viewing hours for the show are Saturday from 10 a.m. to 6 p;m. and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The public is invited to an opening reception Friday evening from 5 to 9 p.m. Among the projected works are a suspended island, boat, ice and waterfall sculptures, tapestries of beach scenes, floating hearts, a plastic sea-grass plantation, a message-lawtching \aquapult a loose-leaf architectW'al facade, a painting on transparent panels, a sound sculpture for water-borne audience. At 3 p.m., Saturday, published poets Paul Metcalf and Bob Buckeye will read from their work. At 4:30 Saturday, the Capital Chamber Artists will perform classical music. Becca Harper will give a continuous performance of her \No More Babies Bouncing on the Bed.\ Standing Offer will perform post-genre rock. . By BETSY MODEST - Staff \I've got nothing against telepathy, but the telephone is much more dependable,\ says Margaret Atwood in her poem, \The Third Eye.\ Such a statement is indicative of Atwood's comic yet cynical, attitude expressed in her literature. Atwood, a poet, critic, and novelist, shared her views with the Union com- munity on Monday April 19. As part of the Minerva Com- mittee's series '\Moments of Vision,\ Union welcomed Atwood as the first of two speakers this term. Monday afternoon, an informal discussion was held outdoors where Atwood answered questions from students and faculty. That evening, Atwood gave a poetry reading and lectured in SSOlo. For those who attended, it was an informative day. Professor Brenda Wineapple introduced Atwood at the evening session explaining that many people fear poetry, Microprocessor Music B.yVADIME; Staff fascinating, and it forced the listener to consider the meaning of \electronic\ music and the significance of composition. Unfortunately, these con- siderations were a bit too much for quite a few members o~ the audience, and only a third of the original number stayed for the second piece. Clearly, Ron's compositions are not headed for the American Top Ten, but each is a true composition, showing the composer's ability to manipulate sound in a specific time frame. come, a 15-minute piece may seem to last forever. Consider Lou Reed's Metal Machine Music, for example. Here's the music that is guaranteed to repel anything that is alive, and at the same time it is a classic stateriiEmt ·against the middle of the road mentality. likewise, Ron Kuivila's compositions require a little thinking, but considering the blandness that dominates the commercial AM and FM, I .found Kuivila's work very refreshing. \LITERATURE AND HISTORY\ thinking it indicates a separation from reality. Poets such as Margaret Atwood mitigate these fears by helping us to be able to measure our place in this world. According to Wineapple, poets such a-s Atwood \help us to celebrate our powers to see and hear.\ Atwood, in her acute awareness of her environment, does just that. In addressing aspects of objects and issues which she -finds unique, she provokes her readers to \see beyond sur- faces.\ According to Atwood, the function of. poetry is to gain insight. Whereas s\ght is seeing what appears before you, in• sight is seeing beyond surfaces. Thus, poetry is not merely self- expression. The poet is the vehicle. which produces tbe poem. The poem, however, is \a formula of words that evokes something from the reader.\ Consequently, poetry reading sharpens perceptive abilities. Poetry heightens perceptions as images are visualized, as words are heard, and as the inherent' subtext is discovered. Thus the poetic experience is multi- dimensional. Atwood mainly discussed two kinds of poets. The first type, · represented by Coleridge, is inclined toward visionary ex- perience. This poet's work is more prophetic thim descrip- tive. The ideas or imagery conveyed by the visionary poet are of a transcendent nature. The second type Atwood descr.ibe.d i& the poet of wisdom and is' represented by · Word- sworth and Pope. These poets are inclined towards com- mentary and convey messages pertaining to immanent sub- jects. Whereas Coleridge's landscapes. seem to occur in another time and place, Word- sworth sees into a landscape and transfigures it. Atwood compared this transfiguration to . the method impressionist artists us.e to suggest landscape in their paintings. · Atwood's poem entitled \The Page\ was especially in- teresting. It addresses the act of writing and the qualities an actual piece of paper might hold even before a written word is placed upon it. Atwood's suggestion that the page is only a- skin which encloses \everything which has ever .happened\ is a fascinating idea. In this poem, her attempt to discover what is ''beneath the page\ by ''journeying into the page\ offers a new perspective on writing as a function of both the poet and the paper she chooses to write on. What prompts a poet to write? Atwood explains that there are several forces involved, both. internal and external. It may be impulses from within which seem to put pen to paper, but Atwood emphasizes that the ''externallife flows through you all the time.\ It is difficult to separate an inner from an outer world since they are intricately intertwined. Atwood suggested that one is both cause and effect of the other. The question and answer period Monday evening was comprehensive, Atwood at- tempted to answer questions addressing topics from . her affection for science fiction to Beatrix Potter as a children's writer. All in all, Union was fort~ate t(l welcome -Margaret Atwood to this campus. It is really a unique opportunity to witness these prominent authors speak about and read tlieir literature. The \Moments of Vision\ series welcomes Kenneth Burke on April 29. all are encouraged to attend. On Monday, April 19, the Electronic Music Club, the Arts Department and the E.E. Department presented Ron Kuivila, an electronic music composer. Mr. ICuivila played two pieces of music for the microprocessor. The first composition was done using a looped recording of a radio announcer's voice, fed through a pitch transposer and a har- monizer. The combined effect of the processing systems produced a sound that often resembled a cathedral organ. The human voices were slowly transposed in pitch until they became just another \in- strument.\ In this respect, this piece is similar to the \voices\ in the \Two Soldiers\ from David Byrne's Catherine Wheel soundtrack. The second com- position was done by processing ultrasonic interference set off by an electric fan. The \live\ ultrasonic somce was mixed with a tape of percussive sounds, and both were harm monized to produce an in· teresting swirling sound. - I took the opportunity to record impressions of the more lively members of the audience, and several were willing to share their views. Ken Kauf- man, Production Manager of WRUC, stated that: · \The concepts . . .. are much more interesting than the pieces. Some of that stuff was just a bit indulgent.\ However, Edward Sinkora, singer for Judy Junk, had a few words of praise \ . . . the use of the fan was the most May 5 Daniel Hoffman April 29 Kenneth Burke · May 12 Richard Howard Mr. Kuivila is one of the many electronic music composers who are not very interested in the aesthetic quality of sound. Rather, he takes \raw\ sound, produced by some naechanical means, and .exposes its textural intricacies. Overall, the presentation was often ' important application of the American Junk Culture to music since the \cans.\ I can't wait to see what this guy can do with blenders, pop-up toasters and riding mowers.\ Another person, who asked not to be identified, disagreed strongly.'' ... noise ... It was terrible.\ LECTURES AT 3=30 READINGS AT 8 Electronic music com- position requires conscientious participation of -the listener. Unless the audience is well prepared for what is about to ARE YOU TALENTED? Students and Professors are needed to play ·in the pit orchestra for Mountebank's spring musical, -~~~ If interested, please call Irene at 6900 . . as -soon as possible •\(. . . . . . ' The Adirondack Research Center & The Student Environmental Alliance present the documentary: \The A-dirondacks: The Land Nobody Knows'' and .a lecture by Norman VanValkenburgh, Director of the Land & Forests for the Depart- ment of Envionmental Conservation of New York, Thursday, April 22, 7:30 p.m., Strauss Lounge. , The Socia I Committee Presents ROLLERSKATING May 13th 12-4 pm . . c Af thro Tfm, sad lad cree~ -,lf! w vert of$~ that run Br.o1 Pon Dea ,of 1 Rail Peo wer veh Ra,l! De;~ coni it I tha1 gri1 beii of : kno the! illu: or 1 B tim alii wit! cry for1 no-v mo sta se( whi for \al

t ) t l s s J OONOORDIENSIB~ A:PriZ SB, 198B Page 7 ~rts & Culture ' ' ' • • 'If , ~ ' ' ' ' ·• ' . . Cinema Going Downhill? By THOMAS CHING Staff \ After considerable browsing through the Sunday New York Times, I came upon a bitter and sad reality. There is an evident lack of originality and creativity in one field of the arts - c{X10st notably the cinemt;l .. While reading the ad- vertisements and descriptions of several movies, I discovered that at least three current first- run movies had their origins as Br.oadway plays: Oli Golden Pond, I Ougbta Be In Pictures, Deathtrap; two were remakes ,of earlier B-genre movies: Raiders of the Lost Ark and Cat People; and countless others were based on \formulas star vehicles or sequels: Silent .Rage, Some KJDd' of Hero a~;~d Deatbwish II. However .before I continue with this commentary, it must be firmly established that I do not have any particular grievances nor pretense of being opposed to these \types\ of movies. I, too, have been known to frequent and patronize these genres so I offer no illusions of being a movie critic · or snob. But there definitely comes a time when the moviegoer can almost foretell the story line without the aid oftea leaves or a crystal ball. The ability to forecast is somewhat common nowadays since most current movies seem to be a rehash of stage adaptations, remakes, sequels or \star vehicles\ whi~h were filmed. especially for the purpose of displaYing the \abilities\ of the star. Two current examples are: Chuck Norris in SUent Rage, still yet · another beat-em-up-kic~-em­ maim-em odyssey of a man against the society and Charles :Bronson in Death Wish II in which our protagonist repeats the identical motions as in the predecessor. Another example would be Richard Pryor's latest insipid. star vehicle Some Kind of. Hero which fails miserably to capture his comic antics lUI well as Live on Sunset Strip. Perhaps the success of the latter movie can be attl'ibuted to the ·fact that it makes no attempt to display his talents since he serves as sllbject- narrator~performer. This is where Hero differs in that it tries to treat Pryor ~s a come mon layman against the society (deja vu?). . In Ernest Thompsonts Academy-award winning On GoldeJi,Pond 1 and Neil Simon's I Oughta Be in Pictures there are definite i.f not identical similarities to the respective Broadway plays. With G41lden Pond, there was no particular attempt to hide the .similarities ·other than the play was sans the Hallmarkesque-Kodak esq11e cinematography. This however cannot be said for Neil Simon's tired \comedy\ which was almost identical to his previous Only When I Laugh. The plots were basically abo11t the reunions of a patent with their long lost daughers, the dif- ferences and tribulations they face et al. Wash Pictures a sequel to Laughs? I have yet to fathom this trying mystery. This Summer, CorneD What better place to be than far above Cayuga's waters as you improve your writing skills. work with computers, participate in a pre-law pro- gram. or take a course in conceptual drawing? Nowhere else can you learn in the cqmpan.y of so diverse a group of faculty and students in such a uniquely attractive setting of hills, lakes. gorges and waterfalls. At Cornell. you can fulfill requirements. ac- celerate your degree program. or simply take advantage of the opportunity to study those in~ triguing subjects that you have always put off. Request an Announcement and see for yourself all the reasons why Cornell is the place you should be this summer. Tuition is $14 5 per semester credit or less. Cornell University Summer Session. B 13 lves Hall. Ithaca. New York 14853 ATTENTION All M*A*S*H LOVERS MASH4077 Comes to West Beach on April 23rd at 3:30 1 M+ A+ S+ H Attire Is Required Beer, ... Music ... Punch .. ~ Munchies Come and Play Doctor! ( raindate April24) · Perhaps eq ua Ur as mysteri()US was the recent remake .()f several 5G 's ::S.genre movies. Although Ralde .. softbe Lost Ark seemed:tobe ft-esh and original', it was indeed a tribute to the B·movie in the ge~~re of PerUs of 'Paullne. Eut where Raiders succeeded: becallSe it was an. unabashed B movie Paul Schrader's Cat. People fails. InadditiontobEillga po<Jr imitation of the ori~al it is also an ambivalent star vehicle for Nastassia .Kihski {the 'Tess ,girlandthe boa lover}. Perhaps the main flaw in Cat Feople was the fact that it tried to hide its humble origins by munliating the screenplay -with explicit gore and sex. Where the / original cult dassic was suspenseful and understated, the remake is bOld', gaudy and utterly tasteless. However this is not to claim that aU remakes, sEquels and adaptations ::.tre detrimelltal to the arts. There are indeed numero\lS well done and well e:xecutecl exceptions such as Blake Edwards' Victor-Vletoria., Mephisto and Sidney Lwnet's Deathtrap. But tile bends are overwhelmingly towards a safe and secure approiu:h in which moviesare based on established and m~ney-making f():tmulas. But d<Jn't despair - next month Annie, that origillal and creative movie, will have its debut. Laurie Mintz hosts Cabaret Women's Week Cabaret By JENNIFER PASTON As .part of their Women's Week activities, Union's Women's Network sponsored Cabaret on Thursday, April 15. This \host\ of Union women were held together by a witty and channing M.C., Laurie Mintz. The first performers, Caralyn Hertzberg and Risa Hutn~r, sang a couple of early Simon songs as well as original works. Judybeth Greene, ac- companied on piano by the multi-talented Melissa Gold, won over the audience with her rendition of \Lose Again.\ Melissa Gold's performance of Janis Ian's \At Seventeen\ was heartfelt and beautiful. In the second act, Karen Weisgerber, in what was probably her last appearance on the Cabaret stage, treated tha audience to many enjoyable \women's tunes.\ The duet of Rachel Gertzog and Amy Edwards ended the evening on an \up\ note. The two worked well together. They were relaxed, their technique was professional and their per- formance was well executed. This network of women deserve a top rating. They put on a good show and in addition made a statement about the role of women in today' s world. Newcomer to Union Stage The Mountebanks producti<Jn of ''Company\ is Ulldet the directio11 of a newc()mer to the Union stage. Professor Morris Kaufman receivedhisdegree at the Yale school of Drama. He is presently a faculty member of the Arts department at R.P.I. He teaches courses in acting, directing and set design, Professor Kaufman's credits include over fifty p1.1od11ctions that span a range of theatre forms from Shak~speare t() opera t~ comedy. AlnC1ng these are a d()zen musicals, including \The Fantasticks,'' \Once Upon A. Mattress,'\ HMy ,Fair Earn 11p to $500 ~»r more · each year beginning ·September for\ 1 -3 )'rs. Set your own .hours. Monthly payment for placing posters o11campu~ · Bonus Prizes 800-526-0813 . Lady,'' and \West Side Story.\ He also directed a previous , production of \Company\ at R.P.I. Although he has acted in the round before, he has never directed in the round in its pure form. He feels that doing a straight play in the round is hard enough, but doing a musical is a special challenge as it involves the coordination of singing, dancing, acting and music. He does feel that \Company\ lends itself to the round because of its episodic . nature. Professor Kaufman is excited about being involved in the production. He enjoys working with liberal arts students, and is happy about the cooperation he is receiving from all those in- volved. Professor Kaufman has no reservations whatsoever about the success of \Com- pany.\ He feels there is a lot of talent in the cast and is con- fident the show will be a good one. \Company\ will be per- formed May 20-22 and May 27- 29. Tickets will go on sale one week before opening night. To be performed May 20-22 & May 27-29 Tickets will go on sale one week before opening night GET YOUR CAR WASHED! o:nd Help Sup,port BlAS BARGAIN $2.00 PLACE: Dri\eway of Hickok House (Lenox Rd.) Ned to l.D.C. Fraternity House IJAl: Fri. & Sat. April 23td & 24th TIME: Fri. 3 0' clock pm .. 6:00 pm Sat. 2 O'Clock pm. 6:oopm •

Page 8 OONOORDJENSIS, April~~. 1982 ------~---------~--~--------~---------~~ -------------------------------------------------------- Editorials ~ Letters ----·Reforms Needed---- The Student Forum's directive forcing Goldberg and Mitchell to return monies is only a superficial treatment of the wound. Student controlled funds should neve\ fie distributed ln such a haphazard way. Whether Goldberg and Mitchell are truly at fault for their actions is inconsequential at this time. Further investigations must be made. The scary aspect of this scenario is that students, even under questionable circumstances, have ready access to large quantities of money. Such casualness in money matters should not be tolerated. The Student Forum is the watchdog of 1 roughly two hundred thousand dollars. A three hundred dollar withdrawal, in comparison, appears trivial. But the potential for misguiding public funds has been revealed. With the planned increase in the Student Activity Fee, this problem becomes all the more important. Conco:rdiensis does not wish the blame to fall on just those individuals involved in the transaction. Certain intrinsic ideas are at fault. First, the Student Ac· tivities Office should not be responsible for the distribution of such large sums of money. That office has enough bookkeeping to keep itseU busy. Those students who determine funding prtorities and handle major financial decisions should take care of their own dirty work. Second, there is a lack of criteria as to who gets money and for what. Standardized procedures should be made public and drummed into the heads of organization leaders. Confusion and uncertainty lead either to mistakes or intentional circumventions of established procedures. Because of the gaps in the chain of command, it is fairly easy to work around set regulations. Third, no one readily available knows the complete financial picture of the major student organizations. When difficulties arise, perhaps a group has lost track of their spending, the only recourse is an involved official process. Student Forum procedure is time consuming and inflexible for good reason. But, fast and informal answers to pertinent questions are not available and as such, organizations. exceed their spending limitations and destroy their bookkeeping. Traditionally, only the Vice-President for Finance has a complete picture and only when that person has time to constantly updating material. Ooncordiensis recommends several actions to be considered. Most important is the creation of a position whose sole responsibility is the handling of student organization money. This persori must be accessible to all groups at anytime and also an- swerable to the Student Forum. Perhaps someone from the Finance Committee should always be available in the Student Activities Office with simple, up to date files on each organization. Thus, the Committee would know exactly who allowed what and why. Additionally, specific yet concise policies should be established that apply universally to all organizations. Regulations deal~g with how money is distributed, how much is allowed with certain authorizations and who gets those :funds should be printed and distributed. Thus standard procedures would not allow both mismanagement and shabby record keeping. This notion could be incorporated into the By-Laws presently being worked on by the Student Forum. It is recognized that many of these suggestions have been attempted in the past. Because they do not exist today does not necessarily mean they are not valid or that they are obsolete. With some extra effort on the part of parties concerned with the problems men- tioned earlier, perhaps one of these suggestions may take root and safeguard against such incidents from occurring again. ---Forum Comm.ended--- Last week's editorial dealtwithourstudent leaders' indecisive sentiment towards Senior Representative Kim No gay. A recommendation was made that the Forum adhere to their, constitution and properly remove N ogay before an election to f111 the vacancy was held. At Sunday's meeting, the Forum members voted to impeach Kim while ignoring Sections C and D of their constitution. These state that the Student Forum shall submit articles of impeachment to the Conduct Committee whereupon they will lla.ve ten days to remove the representative from office. Although the Student Forum misinterpreted the outlined procedures, they did in fact remove her. This in itself is commendable. We are pleased that Gem· cordiensis still can be a beneficial input in Student Forum decisions. The newspaper's stan knows ~11 too well how saddening it is to lose one of your own, especially when that perso11 is such ~ productive and responsible member of such a vital organization. BUDGETS for next year are due no later than Tuesday, April 27th For details stop by at the STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE Office of Campus Ministry ·OPEN HOUSE Tuesday, April 27 4:30 - 6 p.m. 4th floor, Carnegie Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor News Editor Dianne Pavacic Julianne Abebnan A.J. Brodsky Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Charis Richards Copy Editor D.C. Owens National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Women'sSportsEditor . KathyBentley Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant.SportS Editor Rick Sapir PhOto Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist ' David Neiblum Staff Joey Beckennan, Nonnan Bimbach, Marcy Burstiner, Thomas Ching, Jodi Cohen, David Fitzgerald P.S. Girsdansky,Emily Haft, Doug Landon, Peter Mohr, Debra Moses, Jennifer Paston, Gayle Rosenfeld, Eric Ruben,. Subscriptions Photo Staff Martin Sands, Michael Sharp, Judie Steinhardt, E.Vadim, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne , E. Wesley Hartis III, Chris Eshelman Keith Dean, Janet Guiliano, Mary Martin, Pam Meyers, Lisa stem CONQ~D~EN~I$ it? P,~bli~h~p~ every Thmsd~y J>Y the. stu.d~ . body of Union. C~llege, Ca11neg1e Hall, Schenectady, New Y~ 12308; Public~tions Office: Susquehanna Publications, ·Inc., Bo~ 388, .Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151.· Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United .~es.... . . . 'CONCOR.DIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS),· ~d utilizes tb.e Colle~e News Bureau (CNB). El I fo s All sh• na1 Mr. Ac Me (

Pa_g_e_8~-------------- CONCORDIENSIS, April22, 1982 ----~ -----~--------------------------------------------- Editorials ~ Letters ~ COllllll\!:Qtary ----Reforms Needed---- ~1:~~!~~~!~~~::·~f~i~~~~I~J~~~;:~;:;!~~ -L e tte. ,g -.\\:: /. · should never be distributed in such a haphazard way. ·. ·. · .. ··· ··· ·· ···. · · ' _.. ·· · ·.· · Whether Goldberg and Mitchell are truly at fault for their actions is inconsequential at this time. Further investigations must be made. The scary aspect of this scenario is that students, even under questionable circumstances, have ready access to large quantities of money. Such casualness in money matters should not be tolerated. The Student Forum is the watchdog of ' roughly two hundred thousand dollars. A three hundred dollar withdrawal, in comparison, appears trivial. But the potential for misguiding public funds has been revealed. With the planned increase in the Student Activity Fee, this problem becomes all the more important. Concordiensis does not wish the blame to fall on just those individuals involved in the transaction. Certain intrinsic ideas are at fault. First, the Student Ac· tivities Office should not be responsible for the distribution of such large sums of money. That office has enough bookkeeping to keep itself busy. Those students who determine funding prior1ties and handle major financial decisions should take care of their own dirty work. Second, there is a lack of criteria as to who gets money and for what. Standardized procedures should be made public and drummed into the heads of organization leaders. Confusion and uncertainty lead either to mistakes or intentional circumventions of established procedures. Because of the gaps in the chain of command, it is fairly easy to work around set regulations. Third, no one readily available knows the complete financial picture of the major student organizations. When difficulties arise, perhaps a group has lost track of their spending, the only recourse is an involved official process. Student Forum procedure is time consuming and inflexible for good reason. But, fast and informal answers to pertinent questions are not available and as such, organizations exceed their spending limitations and destroy their bookkeeping. Traditionally, only the Vice-President for Finance has a complete picture and only when that person has time to constantly updating material. Concordiensis recommends several actions to be considered. Most important is the creation of a position whose sole responsibility is the handling of student organization money. This person must be accessible to all groups at anytime and also an- swerable to the Student Forum. Perhaps someone from the Finance Committee should always be available in the Student Activities Office with simple, up to date files on each organization. Thus, the Committee would know exactly who allowed what and why. Additionally, specific yet concise policies should be established that apply universally to all organizations. Regulations dealing with how money is distributed, how much is allowed with certain authorizations and who gets those funds should be printed and distributed. Thus standard procedures would not allow both mismanagement and shabby record keeping. This notion could be incorporated into the By-Laws presently being worked on by the Student Forum. It is recognized that many of these suggestions have been attempted in the past. Because they do not exist today does not necessarily mean they are not valid or that they are obsolete. With some extra effort on the part of parties concerned with the problems men- tioned earlier, perhaps one of these suggestions may take root and safeguard against such incidents from occurring again. ---Forum Commended--- Last week's editorial dealt with our student leaders' indecisive sentiment towards Senior Representative Kim Nogay. A recommendation was made that the Forum adhere to their constitution and properly remove Noga.y before an election to fill the vacancy was held. At Sunday's meeting, the Forum members voted to impeach Kim while ignoring Sections C and D of their constitution. These state that the Student Forum shall submit articles of impeachment to the Conduct Committee whereupon they will have ten days to remove the representative from office. Although the Student Forum misinterpreted the outlined procedures, they did in fact remove her. This in itself is commendable. We are pleased that Con· cordiensis still can be a beneficial input in Student Forum decisions. The newspaper's staff knows all too well how saddening it is to lose one of your own, especially when that person is such a productive and responsible member of such a vital organization. WRUC Speaks Out . attemgt t~ simply.··. m~k.e; .llfe here at UmQn m4re. int~t~sttrJg; to give my banq.•s players the t~~>~it~<m .~bl!Y qc:)~~e. . . · The Blues Brothers Band had· five h()rn players: Kevin Angus ·~~ .... g.~ JJe ..... · ~f.\Xi . JI~nlt \VqJ!er. . . ~~9r '$~Ut; ~~r~ · Encenaet ~ )64-trumpet; John SciorlinQ . t81 ( iropQrted from To the Editor: In .last week's article called · \Charges Leveled,\ you spoke of the discrepancy over WIJUC's constitution. True. WRUC bas beep operating under a ct>nstituticn that was never approved by the Student Forum. Actually, we have for dose to a year and a half but in the article you never mentioned why this was the case. WRUC's new constitution was ratified by the executive board at the time ·as well as the staff of WRUC. Then it was turned in at the time the Forum asked f()r it, so that it would be approved. WRUC never received word it was not okay, so we had oo reason to believe it was not approved. In actuality, what had happened was that the constitution was lost by the Forum! A Forum member at the time remembers receiving it. What happened . after that who lmows. Mean· while, this constitution has been resubmitted for 1lpproval. Come on, folks, try not to lose it this timet TheExecutiveBQard · ~RUC,Schenectady lack of Coordination To the Editor: Last Sunday, the Student Forum held a meeting in which the origin of certain funds for the Awesome Band Party was questioned, and judgement passed. For the reC<Jrd, neither .Alan Goldberg, pre&ent General Manager of WRUC, nor I, was ever notified of. this meeting. Since l\].an and I are among a handful of poople who know the · whole story (arid since none of the other knowledgeable people ~ere present at the meeting, eLtber). I feel it was a blatant injustice w pass ·a resolutiQ!l based on rum'{)rs. To ·the Forum's credit, the Finance . Committee recently gave Alan · and me a chance b) dis;pel all · · rumors. At the next Forutn · rn~ing, the Finance ·Com:· ' mittee will make a roo®\ .mendation based on the new information •. Thus. as far as I and other involved parties are concerned, any resolutions passed at the last Student , Forum meeting are useless. . A well .. known writer onoo · said, H'l'heri:l is always something to upset the most careful of humart ca\Culations. n Nev,er ol\e: to be discour~ged, I will continue to- pursue other \ambitious'• avenues, in an BUDGETS for next year are due no later than Tuesday, April 27th For details stop by at the STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE Sincerely, J~fb'e¥ S~ M'!t$1lel! ' . Review C .,~. .. d ra tttre\ ·· ·· Dear 'Miss Haft: . .. . Although I must ·admit that I did enjoy your Vt!ry all'\ preciative :review ol my band which played at the April . 6 Cabaret, I noticed s(IJll.rtbing very strange about the article. I put on an act and led 11 Qther performers on stage that evening and yet not one of my players was menti(}ned in your article. At a small school like Union where students perform at a cabaret for the sake of entertaining others,. the least your review could have done was to name the performers. A little recognition for a· lot of d{'!serving credit is certainly not too much to ask. It is thereft>re the second purpose ()f this letter /ny ~aw)-;-~~11Inpet; and FiSher '8z;..;frofilbol¥e. 'The · rhytbm section consisted of Steve Larson 1 83-piano;· ·Mike Zanta '83-guitar; Steve Glazer. '8$-guitar; ·Jim Wl\rd. ·~bassl ~nq Clint~qurs (~ti left scliool last year .but came baclt to ~rform with us) dn the ctrums: ~ Finally, Joliet Jake was played , by the phenomenal Rob Der- babian wht> is a good singer and excellent entertainer. These people are SDme of the best musicians and entertainers on campus; -whenever they do something they deserve reCQgnition. For that matter} whtJnever anyone performs at a Cabaret on this campus (which is kept small so it can be kept perst>nal) they deserve recognition in a review. I hope yQu take my advice into consideraticn for Office of Campus Ministry OPEN HOUSE Tuesday, April 27 4:30 - 6 p.m. 4th floor, (arnegie Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor News Editor Dianne Pavacic Julianne Abelman A.J. Brodsky Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Charis Richards Copy Editor D.C. Owens National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Women's Sports Editor Kathy Bentley Sports Editors Drew H\U' ley, Rob Nmion Assistant Sports Editor Rick Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist David Neiblum Staff Joey Beckennan, Norman Birnbach, Marcy Burstiner, Thomas Ching, Jodi Cohen, David Fitzgerald P .S. Girsdansky, Emily Haft, Doug Landon, Peter Mohr, Debra Moses, Jennifer Paston, Gayle Rosenfeld, Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, Michael Sharp, Judie Steinhardt, Subscriptions Photo Staff E. Vadim, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshelman Keith Dean, Janet Guiliano, Mary Martin, Pam Meyers, Lisa Stem CONCORDIENSIS i~ J)'ublished every Thursday by the stud~ body o( Union Cpllege; Carnegie Hall, Schenectiuly, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., BoX' 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States •.. . CONCOKDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). • • To th Thi revie writt1 willi1 rev it Cab a than ·mind pro vi .ough and form · refle stru( tacU are i E 4 • AI sh na M, Ac M

OONOORDIENSIS, April BB, 19/lB Page 9 C011l111e11tary -·Letters - Editorials ·u· · S All. • ? Commentary: · ·.· •• ·.. 1es. Commenting Orl Commentaries Elections for the position of Acting Editors-in-Chief _ of . Concordiensis for the remainder of Spring term will-be held on Tuesday, April 27th at 8:3~ pm. All interested persons should submit their names to Mrs. Lorraine Marra in the Student Activities Office by Monday, April 26th. - By THOMAS CHING In the now legendary in- terview . with the . Chicago Tribune Henry Ford quipped tllat \History is more or less bunk.\ Obviously Ford could not 'have possibley predicted the events that would occur in the southern part of the Atlantic Ocean sixty•six years later. In an almost cliched scene, thousands of Britons lined the Portsmouth Harbor armed with the ever present Union Jack and numerous placards, eagerly watching their dilapidated armada set sail for an ar- chipelago 8000 miles away from the once almighty empire. At stake was not the sovereignty of the Falklands but rather one of honor in the eternal conflict between the Old and New Worlds. In the middle of this eternal conflict is the United States torn between an old ally in Western Europe and a new friend in South America. Prior to the actual invasion, the President of the United States, armed with his translators tried in vain to discourage Argentinian General Galtieri; he offered to dispatch an envoy of Galtieri's choosing. The offer was quickly rebuffed. Somewhat concerned at this awkward fiasco the President skipped town in favor of the tropical paradises of Barbados and Jamaica leaving the crisis in the hands of Secretary of State. Haig haunted by the ghost of his predecessor, the illustrious Henry Kissinger, employed the latter's \shuttl~ diplomacy\ between London and Buenos Aires in search of peace. After talks at No. 10 Downing Md the presidential palace of Casa Rosada, Haig, concluded that neither Argentma nor Britain really wanted to go all out. But perhaps what annoyed Haig more than the stauchness of both nations were the numerous criticisms of the ambivalence flaunted by the Reagan Administration. Charges of the US not being able to decide between Britain, a firm ally throughout the twentieth century and the aggressor and human rights . violating dictatorship of Afgentina remained unan- swered .. Yet, Inside the Reagan Administration itself, there was much self-questioning. In the past years, the Thatcher- government was more than supportative in the US boycott against the 1980 Olympic ·Games in Moscow, denoun- cement of martial law in Poland, upholding the US- conceived trade sanctions against the USSR. in protest of the Afghanistan invasion, in addition to the sanctions against Iran during the hostage crisis at great expense to her economy, On an even more personal level, Thatcher's own career is in jeopardy. Faced with the racial strife and a disnlal economy on the homefront and charges of being to dependent on the US and her policies, Thatcher cannot afford con,. flicts abroad. Furthermore, the lack of tolerance on the part of her fellow Britons who are demanding her resignation is putting her career into further jeopardy. Faced with· this, Thatcher was forced to call upon the support of her old ally, the US. But, much to Thatcher's surprise, the US remained aloof and .ambivalent to the situation. Spurned by a seemingly loyal ally on the grounds that the administration's priorities were based on the balancing of the hemispheric anti-Communism nations rath{'r than the need to monitor NATO unity, the Thatcher government was somewhat indignant .if not in- sulted by this betrayal. Com- menting on the US actions, Labor Party Radical Tony Benn said that ''President Reagan is not only going to be netural but willingly hostile to any act of war against Argentina, because American power rests on the rotten military dictatorship in Latin America.\ The Thatcher government made it bluntly clear that it expected the US to use its leverage to remove the Argentinian troops from .. the Falklands. After the futile Haig talks, the British decided that they must proceed with their own actions by ordering a blockade. According to Defense Secretary Nott, the blockade was to \deny Argentina forces on the Falklands, means of reinforcement, and resupply from the mainland.\ But the announcement also had a political overtone: to convey to Washington that the Thatcher government was dead serious in recovering the Falklands despite American wishes. In short, the Thatcher government should be com- mended for taking action on their own without depending on the mercy and compassion of its \ever·faithful\ ally--the US. She has perhaps learned from . the fall of former US supported allies, most notably the downfall o~ the Shah of Iran, the demise of Formosa, and the relative American inactivity in the Poland crisis. It is about time that the nations of the world realize that their good old ally, the US, is not always around when she is needed. Her hosrt term memory and fickleness often loses track of former friends and enemies. CAMP UNION IS COMING MAY 28th & 29th Anyone wishing to help out pi ease contact: Darcy Hammerman or Rich Tanenbaum There wiH be Social Committee m-eetings concerning Camp Un.ion every Wednesday at 4 pm in Strauss lounge. By NORMAN BIBNBACH Columnist-at-Large It is a strange thing for me to be writing Commentaries. In hi~ school, my politieal con- sclOIJSness level was jwt above comatose. Now, all of a sudden, I find myself almost on the verge of being an activist. I now scan the headlines of such venerable news periodicals as The New York Times, Time Magazine, and the Schenectady Gazette in search of material about which to write. I began collecting articles which would be the basis for my own. You'd be surprised how many articles that turnedoutto be. Let's put it this way: I had so many newspaper clippings littered, around, in, under, over my desk that my roommate kept asking me when the painter was coming in. Well, the painter never made it, but Housing did, · and threw my carefully catalogued collection (an ac- cidental alliteration). This left me with nothing to write about, so I begged people for ideas. One person said I should write about the controversy at W.R.U.C.; I should explain once and for all what's going down over there. Another friend thought I should write about the Falkland Islands crisis or Poland or about' Amy Carter, but I figured that it would be too mundane. My astrologist suggested that I write about having- nothing to write, or about her and her 24-hour Astrology Hotline Service-Mrs. Rasta and Co., \The Good Hands PeQple.\ And that brought up the question about my Com- mentaries--which, I'm sure many have asked themselves. What is the purpose of them'! Am Ia cornmentqr, a commentator, or a columnist'! If I write about W.R.U.C., I will be conunenting on what's happened. If I write about the Falklands, I will be commentating on the significance of the crisis. And to write just about Mrs. Rasta and Co. (142 Waverly Ave., Albany) would be a really cheap way of getting free advertising. (By the way, Mrs. Rasta and Co. provides a free cost estimate. Call befpre mi~ight tonight, and you get a special mystery gift at no extra charge. So call now, operators are waiting). If I wrote about not having anything to write, I will be a collll1'~'list. ___. It was a tough decision, but after a five-minute debate last week, I became \Columnist-at- Large.\ And since I know you people really care, I decided my decision was worth half a column. However, in the future, I will be writing about gun control {\Have Gun Will Travel\)-~and thus a com- mentator. And though I want to be a columnist, the title of this was \Commenting on Ccom- mentaries,\ but that's only because the title \Columnisting on Commentaries\ sounds a little weird. April 9th of last year, I got a letter saying I was accepted into Union College. And although I was. glad I got into Union College, I really wanted to get into· Union University. The problem is that no one seems to know where it is, or if it is. I don't see that it's a problem. There is an law schol, a medical school, and a nw-sing sc)lool; and they are all con• nected to an undergraduate college. According to the Second College Edition of Webster's New World Dic- tionary of Tbe American Language, whose \over 158,000 entries ,in 1728 pages with over 20,000 new terms and meanings\ all written \from a CQnte~porary American point of view, defines \university\ as \an educational institution of the highest level,\ which Union- -despite what The New York Times says-is, \typically in the U.S., with one or more underg~raduate colleges, together with a program of graduate studies and a number of professional schools.\ Guess what--that makes Union a university. Yet, the ad- ministration refuses to acknowledge the fact. Or do they? There is a -committee for Union University affairs, but who are they, and what do they do or have they done? So, is this place a university or what? I'd like to know. If it hasn't been decided upon, I think it's about time it was. This .place is a university; let's get some of the prestige by calling it such. One thing I'd like to know is that when those prospective freshmen come here to tour the Union College campus of Union University, do they really think this place is as idyllic as it looks? There everyone is, on a perfect spring day, on the fields, playing frisbee or lacrosse, sunbathing-seemingly having a wonderful time. Do they really believe that? Do they really believe that college life is aU fun and games? How can they? How naive! But of course, I believed the same thing when I was a prospective freshman. Now, as an intr()spective fresh- man, I know better. After all, I've already survived winter term and the snow storm two weeks ago. (April snow storms bring May thawing?) The latest fad on campus is for men to wear earrings in one of their ears. Some wear them in their right ear, and some in their left. What I'd like to know is why? Why would a guy wear an earring? Is he trying to look like Errol Flynn in \Captain Blood'!\ I don't know. I don't know what the point is other than looking . cool. However, I have some questions about this new fad: an earring in the left ear means you're gay or does an earring in a guy's right ear mean he's gay'! And whatever it is here, on the east coast, I know it's dif- ferent on the west coast. So, the problem is if you're straight and don't want to be thought of as gay, what do you do if you're on the west coast? Do you have both ears pierce~, just in case? I'm not sure, but I think, if a guy were truly cool, he'd wear an earring through his nose. Now that's cool. You don't mess around with someone who's got an earring through his nose. . Next week (hopefully): Love, Union Style.

OONOORDIENBIS, April 22, 19/l$3 Page 9 Letters Co Illllle11tary , ,.Letiers- U.S. Allies? £ditorials y-our future reviews because thi~ is a . very oowrtant iiem tb1:1t yo,l.ll~(t ~llt ip ~~~ week's i:f;l~~~·~ <;me~f-SS~~l th~k you for yt>ur apptectat1ve rei/lew of tbe Blues Brothers and I invite . XDcU tmc\J,. ..w:~~cb ~ .. i!lt tb~. il q.tc · ·· ·· - ·· 'ofthe\'M:rr fi( ~- ·.··. ·.• .. y 7 -r:. . . ... d' cabaret. .. • a . RteSlt=~!i .. And from .AnGthe.r .Quarter, To the Editor: Thi& letter is a response to the review of the April 6 cabaret, written by Elllily Haft. We are willing to accept negative reviews of Cabaret. Some Cabarets are moN successful than others. ()ne must keep in · mind that the entertainment is provided by students. The critic . ought to respect the courage and willingness of the per· formers. A review should not reflect a peN'!onal bias. Con· structive criticism is welcome- tactlessness and in$ensitivity are inappropriate. , Sincerely, Susan Stern RavitAvni Coordinators of Cabaret . Elections for the position of Acting Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensis for the remainder of Spring term will-be held on Tuesday, April 27th at 8:30 pm. All interested persons should submit their names to Mrs. Lorraine Marra in the Student Activities Office by Monday 1 April 26th. By THOMAS CHING In the now legendary in- terview with the Chicago Tribune Henry Ford quipped that ''History is more or less bunk.\ Obviously Ford could not have possibley predicted the events that would occur in the southern part of the Atlantic Ocean sixty-six years later. In an almost cliched scene, thousands of Britons lined the Portsmouth Harbor armed with the ever present Union Jack and numerous placards, eagerly watching their dilapidated armada set saH for an ar- chipelago 8000m~les away from the <mce almighty empire. At stake was not the sovereignty of the Falklands but rather one of honor in the eternal conflict between the Old and New Worlds. In the middle of this eternal conflict is the United States torn between an old ally in Western Europe and a new friend in South America. Prior to the actual invasion, the President of th~ United States, armed with his translators tried in vain to discourage Argentinian General Galtieri; he offered to dispatch an envoy of Galtieri's choosing. The offer was quickly rebuffed. Somewhat concerned at this awkward fiasco the President skipped town in favor of the tropical paradises of Barbados and Jamaica leaving the crisis in the hands of Secretary of State. Haig haunted by the ghost of his predecessor, the illustrious Henry Kissinger, employed the latter's \shuttl~ diplomacy\ between London and Buenos Aires in search of peace. After talks at No. 10 Downing and the presidential palace of Casa Rosada, Haig, concluded that neither Argentrna nor Britain really wanted to go all out. But perhaps what annoyed Haig more than the stauchness of both nations were the numerous criticisms of the ambivalence flaunted by the Reagan Administration. Charges of the US not being able to decide between Britain, a firm ally throughout the twentieth century and the aggressor and human rights violating dictatorship of Afgentina remained unan- swered. Yet, inside the Reagan Administration itself, there was much self-questioning. In the past years, the Thatcher- government was more than supportative in the US boycott against the 1980 Olympic Games in Moscow, denoun- cement of martial law in Poland, upholding the US- conceived trade Sanctions against the USSR in protest of the Afghanistan invasion, in addition to the sanctions against Iran during the hostage crisis at great expense to her economy, On an even more personal level, Thatcher's own career is in jeopardy. Faced with the racial strife and a dismal economy on the homefront and charges of being to dependent on the US and her policies, Thatcher cannot afford con- flicts abroad. Furthennore, the lack of tolerance on the part of her feHow Britons who are demanding her resignation is putting her career into further jeopardy. Faced with this, Thatcher was forced to call upon the support of her old ally, the US. But, much to Thatcher's surprise, the US remained aloof and ambivalent to the situation. Spurned by a seemingly loyal ally on the grounds that the administration's priorities were based on the balancing of the hemispheric anti-Communism nations rath-:r than the need to monitor NATO unity, the Thatcher government was somewhat indignant if not in~ suited by this betrayal. Com- menting on the US actions, Labor Party Radical Tony Benn said that \President Reagan is not only going to be netural but willingly hostile to any act of war against Argentina, because American power rests on the rotten military dictatorship in Latin America.\ The Thatcher government made it bluntly clear that it expected the US to use its leverage to remove the Argentinian troops from the Falklands. After the futile Haig talks, the British decided that they must proceed with their own actions by ordering a blockade. According to Defense Secretary Nott, the blockade was to \deny Argentina forces on the Falklands, means of reinforcement, and resupply fl'Om the mainland.\ But the announcement also had a political overtone: to convey to Washington that the Thatcher government was dead serious in recovering the Falklands despite American wishes. In short, the Thatcher government should be corn- mended for taking action on their own without depending on the mercy and compassion of its \ever-faithful\ ally--the US. She has perhaps learned from the fall of former US supported allies, most notably the downfall of the Shah of Iran, the demise of Formosa, and the relative American inactivity in the Poland crisis. It is about time that the nations of the world realize that their good old ally, the US, is not always around when she is needed. Her hosrt term memory and fickleness often loses track of former friends and enemies. CAMP UNION IS COMING MAY 28th & 29th Anyone wishing to help out please contact: Darcy Hammerman or Rich Tanenbaum There will be Social Committee meetings concerning Camp Un-ion every Wednesday at 4 pm in Strauss Lounge. -- Commenting On Commentaries By NORMANBIRNBACH Columnist-at-Large It is a strange thing for me to be writing Commentaries. In high school, my political con- sciousness level was just above comatose. Now, all of a sudden, I find myself almost on the verge of being an activist. I now scan the headlines of such venerable news periodicals as The New York Times, Time Magazine, and the Schenectady Gazette in search of material about which to write. I began collecting articles which would be the basis for my own. Y<:m'd be surprised how many articles that turned out to be. Let's put it this way: I had so many newspaper clippings littered, around, in, under, over my desk that my roommate kept asking me when the painter was corning in. Well, the painter never made it, but Housing did, and threw my carefully catalogued collection (an ac- cidental alliteration). This left me with nothing to write about, so I begged people for ideas. One person said I should write about the controversy at W .R. U .C.; I should explain once and for all what's going down over there. Another friend thought I should write about the Falkland Islands crisis or Poland or about Amy Carter, but I figured that it would be too mundane. My astrologist suggested that I write about having nothing to write, or about her and her 24-hour Astrology Hotline Service-Mrs. Rasta and Co., \The Good Hands People.\ And that brought up the question about my Com- mentaries--which, I'm sure many have asked themselves. What is the purpose of them? Am I a comrnentor, a commentator, or a columnist? If I write about W.R.U.C., I will be commenting on what's happened. If I write about the Falklands, I will be comrnentating on the significance of the crisis. And to write just about Mrs. Ra.sta and Co. (142 Waverly Ave., Albany) would be a really cheap way of getting free advertising. (By the way, Mrs. Rasta and Co. provides a free cost estimate. Call before midnight tonight, and you get a special mystery gift at no extra charge. So call now, operators are waiting). If I wrote about not having anything to write, I will be a colurr.nist. It was a tough decision, but after a five-minute debate last week, I became \Colwnnist-at- Large.\ And since I know you people really care, I decided my decision was worth half a column. However, in the future, I will be writing about gun control (\Have Gun Will Travel\)--and thus a com- mentator. And though I want to be a columnist, the title of this was ''Commenting on Ccom- mentaries,\ but that's only because the title \Columnisting on Commentaries\ sounds a little weird. April 9th of last year, I got a letter saying I was accepted into Union College. And although I was glad I got into Union College, I really wanted to get into Union University. The problem is that no one seems to know where it is, or if it is. I don't see that it's a problem. There is an law schol, a medical schod, and a nursing school; and they are all con- nected to an undergraduate college. According to the Second College Edition of Webster's New World Dic- tionary of The American Language, whose \over 158,000 entries in 1728 pages with over 20,000 new terms and meanings\ all written \from a wnte~poraryAmerican point of view, defines \university\ as ''an educational institution of the highest level,\ which Union- -despite what The New York Times says-ls, \typically in the U.S., with one or more undergraduate colleges, together with a program of graduate studies and a number of professional schools.\ Guess what--that makes Union a university. Yet, the ad- ministration refuses to acknowledge the fact. Or do they? There is a ·committee for Union University affairs, but who are they, and what do they do or have they done? So, is this place a university or what? I'd like to know. If it hasn't been decided upon, I think it's about time it was. This place is a university; let's get some of the prestige by calling it such. One thing I'd like to know is that when those prospective freshmen come here to tour the Union College campus of Union University, do they really think this place is as idyllic as it looks? There everyone is, on a perfect spring day, on the fields, playing frisbee or lacrosse, sunbathing-seemingly having a wonderful time. Do they really believe that? Do they really believe that college life is all fun and games? How can they? How naive! But of course, I believed the same thing when I was a prospective freshman. Now, as an introspective fresh- man, I know better. After all, I've already survived winter term and the snow storm two weeks ago. (April snow storms bring May thawing?) The latest fad on campus is for men to wear earrings in one of their ears. Some wear them in their right ear, and some in their left. What I'd like to know is why? Why would a guy wear an earring? Is he trying to look like Errol Flynn in \Captain Blood?\ I don't know. [ don't know what the point is other than looking cool. However, I have some questions about this new fad: an earring in the left ear means you're gay or does an earring in a guy's right ear mean he's gay? And whatever it is here, on the east coast, I know it's dif- ferent on the west coast. So, the problem is if you're straight and don't want to be thought of as gay, what do you do if you're on the west coast? Do you have both ears pierced, just in case? I'm not sure, but I think, if a guy were truly cool, he'd wear an earring through his nose. Now that's co()l. You don't mess around with someone who's got an earring through his nose. Nex:t week (hopefully): Love, Union Style.

Page 10 CONOORDIENSJS, April !$ 1 198! Anti-Semitism Shows Up On U.S. CampUses Grad Students it hasn't.\ (CPS) --Thoug:h overall enrollment in the nation's graduate schools continues to increase, the number of black grad students has declined for the fourth year in a row in 1980, according to a study by the National Advisory Committee on Black Higher Education and Black Colleges and Univer- sities. Smith says blacks enrolled part-time in graduate school account .for most of the decline. The number of blacks attending full time has remained virtually the same for the last several years. Since reaching an all-time high of 65,371 students in 1976, the report points out, black grad school enrollment fell eight percent to only 60,059, in 1980, the latest year for which figures are available. The decline in the number of black students who register in grad schools has been a gradual one over four years. The advisory committee annually tracks the enrollment to determine if black students are being assured access to higher education, and to assess the effectiveness of minority enrollment programs. \Each year we update the study to see whether or not the trend (of declining black enrollment in graduate schools) has reversed itself,\ explains Carol Smith-, staff coordinator for the committee. ''And so far, \Students who were able to {:ursue a few graduate courses while still working ·have found that they're no longer able to do it,\ Smith comments. \The trend is contrary to what's happening in the nation as a whole.'' But the committee also found black enrollment in professional schools has in- creased 14.5 percent since 1976, from 11,181 to 12,802 for 1980. Smith attributes the gain in professional school enrollment to a growing uncertainty over the value of a graduate degree in the job market. \The reason generally given for the rise in professional school enrollment is that students are choosing not to go to just graduate school,\ she says. \They're spending more and more money for school and just don't know if graduate school is worth it compared to a professional degree.\ Cinema Escape (CPS)--More than ever before, ~ollege students today are turning to entertainment and adventure films to blot out their scholarly and economic worries, according to a recent magazine poll of over 1500 students across the country. Escapism dominated students' choices for their favorite movie of 1981. Their favorite was \Raiders of the Lost Ark,'.' followed by \Arthur \The French Lieutenant's Woman,\ \Body Heat,\ and \.Stripes.\ HThere's no doubt the market has gotten away from heavy social commentfilms, and become more interested in escape films/' rePQrts Randy Achee, publisher of Ampersand magazine, which conducts the annual student poll. In contrast to the popularity of dramatic films of years past,, the student population this year has shifted to lighter, more entertaining films, Achee says. Collegians picked comedy as their favorite type of movie, followed ~Y adventure, suspense and. sc1ence hction. He speculates the reason is that real-life problems are getting worse. \The job market, the economy, and other factors are causing a lot of students to say 'Gee, when I get out of school i don't even know if I'll have a job.' Students don't know whether they'll be able to have the same standard of living as their parents. It's kind of a downer, and they need something to take their minds off of it.\ The college audience has also gotten a little older, Achee adds, and is less concerned with how conunercial a movie may be. \Raiders of the Lost Ark,\ the adventure film about an archeologist digging for a biblical source of mystic power, also· garnered star Harrison Ford honors as favorite male actor among students. Jane Fonda was the favorite actress for the second year in a row, nosing out Meryl Streep and Katherine Hepburn. Please Support PHI SIGMA KAPPA'S CHARITY RAFFLE SALE 1 st Prize $7 5 2nd Prize $50 PLUS: 3rd Prize $25 Special prizes from Electric Grinch Records compliments of Record Town 100 free plays at Barrel of Fun Free film tickets compliments of Film Comm. 1 bottle of champagne compliments of Muffets Liquor Pitchers compHments of the Dutch Hollow Pub Free Pizza from Pizza Hut ... and more 14, 1982 (CPS)-Middle East tensions have erupted into rhetorical battles at three different colleges over the past month, prompting charges of growing student anti-semitism, inap· propriate politicization of foreign student groups, and even student government mimicking of a ''United Nations style.\ At the University of Maryland, the International Student Council (ISC), an umbrella group for foreign students on campus, denied membership to the Israeli Student Society largely for political reasons, according to council President Sheryar Durrani. In response, Maryland's student government may cut off funding for the foreign student group. At the University of Wisconsin, a Palestinian woman successfully had an Israeli woman kicked off an International Women's Week panel sponsored by the Wisconsin Student Association. And a Jewish student group at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst has filed formal complaints that a similar women's week panel there had included a Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) speaker at the expense of a Zionist speaker. The incidents occurred against a background of a Tucson Jewish community ACROSS 1 Weep 4 Hurl 8 Farm an• mal 11 Toward shel- ter 12 Sacred image 13 Reverence 14 Pronoun 15 Label 17 Encumber 19 Limb 21 Dry, as wine. 23 Cobbler 24 Quarrel 26 Knock 28 Short jacket 31 Soft food 33 Footlike part 35Petition 36 Part of \to be\ 38 Stray 41- Deum 42 Cheer 44 Ship channel 45 Still 47 Sandarac tree 49 Scottish cap 51 Theater box 54 Tear 56 Conducted 58 Time period 59 Mexican dish 62 Plunge 64 Latin con- )l.!nc1ion 65 Beverage 66 Spanish pot 68 Woe word 70 Offer 71 Scut 72 Army bed DOWN 1 Slumber 2 Digraph 3 Waaer 4 Striped ani- mal 5 Hypothetical force 6 Distress sig- nal 7 Strike 8 West Pointers 9 Night bird 10 Tiny 11 Shoemaker's tools 16While 18 Expire 20 Opening 22 Metropolis 25 Youngster 27 Edible seed 29Away 30 Born 32 Wood~n pin 34 Pigpen 36 Macaw 37 Deface 39 Large tub \investigation\ into the distribution of \anti-Israeli'' materials at the University of Arizona, of a physical con- frontation near the University of Michigan between Nazis, counter-demonstrators and police, and ·Of a spurt of anti- semitic graffiti and hanging Nazi flags at Clemson, Penn State and Ohio State. Ken Jacobson of the Anti- Defamation League in New York finds such incidents \disturbing but doesn't feel there's a growing tide of anti- semitism on campuses. \This isn't some massive growth. Problems for Jewish students are sporadic and perpetual.'' He attributes the incidents to increasing foreign student enrollinent. \As the number of Arab students grows on campus there is more of a front to get that side of- the Middle East conflict heard. The United Nations has a documented bias in .this respect, and (campus) Th1rd World conferences, in seeking to imitate the U.N. style, often reflect those values,\ he observes. There are some 80,000 Arab students currently on U.S. campuses, compared to about 2700 Israeli students, according to the Institute of International Education. Few want to get between the two groups. CROSS WORD PUZZLE FROM COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE 40 Lamprey 43 Damaged 46 Pedal digit 48 Inlet 50 Award 52 Massive 53 Dines 55 Conspiracy 57 Roman gods 59 Label 60- Baba 61 GuidO'$ high note 63 Moccasin 67 Chinese mile 69 Behold! Answer on page 11 Maryland administrators, says student activities Director Dr. James Osteen, ·~ould not get involved unless there were specific acts of violence. There h~sn 't been anything of the kmd, thank goodness. The discussion is heated, but there's a lot of it. I'd have to say it's a healthy sign.\ They follow the ISC's latest rejection of the Israeli Student Society, partly on parliamen- tary grounds and partly, oponents said, because, the group is too political. The ISC, however, recognizes other politically-active foreign student groups. \Obviously there is some politics involved\ in the rejection, ISC President Durrani concedes. \Students (in the council) whose groups had anti-Israeli ties voted ac- cordingly. I can't deny it.\ A Lebanese student group was rejected at the saine time, in part becausethey supported the Israeli group. But Durrani.argues \the point is: if we can't have a vote on who does or does not get membership, then why have a student g&vernment?' · Marylahd's campus-wide government is now considering cutting off the ISC's funding in retaliation. It was widely at- tacked last fall for sponsoring a \global cultural festival\ that included the Zionist Alliance of Maryland. Eight of the other 25 groups scheduled to participate boycotted. the festival in protest. The Concerned Jewish Students at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst, by contrast, are protesting the inclusion of a Palestinian speaker at a recent lnter- .national Women's Week (IWW) conference and the exclusion of a Zionist speaker. The group is also angry that IWW organizers didn't im- mediately condemn an anti- semitic remark made outside the conference. The IWW task force \sticks by our decision to bring a PLI spokesman on campus o ex- press views that are· seldom heard,\ says Aquila Ayana of the Third World Women's Task Force. \A lot of Jewish students, I think, are interested in hearing the Palestinian point of view,\ agrees Deborah Popper of the Concerned Jewish Students, \but it is the responsibility of organizers to strike some sort of balance\ between controversial viewpoints. Popper is also angry because a student outside the conference was heard to say, \Hitler made a mistake. He left a million of you alive.\ · When the PLO speaker at the conference was asked about the slur, she declined to comment. Popper condemns conference organizers for not forcing a denunciation. \We hold the IWW planning committee . responsible for the staement since no effort was made to denounce it. It was tacit approval.'' 13th ANNUAL CLAMBAKE.· Satu·rday. May 15th The UMass student govern- ment, the IWW committee, the administration and the task force have since issued statements condemning anti- semitism. \It . isn't enough,\ . Popper contends. Sigma Chi 1·-6 Spring Fever \We have been taking the blame for a statement for which we are not responsible,'' _Ayana laments. She doesn't think the problem is insurmountable, but asserts, \I don't think anyone 'hl48 the right to ten us who we can ot can't schedule at a eonference.\ · (C O'H~ famt Mad chall Tex~ curr pron no c: M1 inU says to cl biblE laws ered \' (thE com othe mor are reli1 Sl arne chu A del1 tea~ Ric the pro eac tea uni wh sta COl to 1 da1 I 'na1 inc thE ml ca At Mi K~ UJ (l co th h~ ct th to de aJ rl d: r1 \ tl VI d p p i1 r t (

' f f 1 e f e e e a g e .s iS 1e ~h Ia ie llt 1e ve a OONOORDIFJNS!l;J April SB, 198B Page 11 ' Campus Bible Study Curriculum U'nfair, (CPS)-··Robin Murray- O'Hair, granddaughter of famed atheist advocate Madalyn Murray-O'Hair, is challenging the University of Texas' bible studies curriculum, claiming it promotes religion and \serves no clear secular purpose.\ Murray-Q'Hair, a 17•year-old in UT's accelerated program, says that if the university fails to change the way it conducts bible studies, she will file a lawsuit to strip it of academic credit. \We welcome bible studies (that consist of) objective comparisons of the bible to other history, to science, to morality,\ she explains .. ''We are against the. promoting of religion in the schools.\ She contends Texas' program amounts to an entanglement of church and state. At Texas, seven local denominations each fund a teaching \chair according to Richard Spencer, who teaches the Baptist portion of the program. The denominations each nominate someone to teach the sections, the university- judges the nominee who, if found to meet university standards, then teaches the course in a classroom adjacent to campus. The program, Spencer says, dates back to 1905. It was once common . nationwide. _\The pattern of independently-funded chairs is the way most religion depart- ments got started on college campUS,~~h ~·. pqmts,<>ut E~~rson Abendroth, now of the Synods ·of Mid-America in Overland Park, Kansas, and former head of the United Ministry in Education (UME), a group which helps coordinate religious studies on the college lewl. The UME, Abendroth adds, has never looked kindly on the chair system. Abendroth fears _that if one program was found to be promoting religious doctrine-as opposed to leading an academic inquiry into religious studies--it could discredit other kinds of religious studies. Abendroth thinks individual \churches would be divided on the issue. If the chair system were abolished, as many denominations would · be pleased as would be disap- pointed.\ Texas' Spencer wants to save it. \Other (academic) depart- ments offer courses in religion, but the bible studies program offers more intensity, variety and specialization than other departmental classes in religion,\ he argues. His task now, he says, is \to dispell any misunderstanding of the integrity of this program. These classes offer the same degree of objectivity that you would find in any other class.\ Murray-O'Hair, whose grandmother convinced the. U.S. Supreme Court to- decide that forced prayer in public schools was an unconstitutional entanglement of church and Puzzle Answer state, complains that \the university is forced to minitor the program in order to insure objectivity, but that In itself constitutes entanglement.\ She has filed an ad- ministrative complaint against the program. After exhausting administrative chailliels, she says she may seek a remedy in the coQrts. Her . case, says the sophomore, who hopes to become a lamer, c'is almost exactly the same\ as a Utah case in which a court ruled against an off-campus, biblical studies high scnool program. In that case, according to Utah Office of Education ad- ministrative aide Bernard S. Furse, the main issue was if high school stucleilts could get credit for time spent in an off- campus MonMll program. The court nlled that \for instance, Mormo11 history or biblical history- ~ouldi not be used to fuHill history requirements,\ Fwse recalls. \But the classes (wblch were funded by the' Monnon church) were permitted as electives. Texas counts its off-campus, priv atelygfun,ded ,biblical studies courses for academic credit as electi'ves. Abendroth nCJte~ that, while \state laws vary- widely, it's obvious that a lawsuit at a scliool as big .as:U'T would draw national atteation, and that eolJld af-fect otiler schools with chair systems.\ More Drinkers (CPS)-A greater pel'centage of college students than ever ·before is drinking beer, but students are drinklng a little less of it than in the ·past, ac- cording to a · new S\lfVey of campus drinking habits. As part of its Campus Monitor series, cASS· Student Adver- tising found that 79 percent of the 1175 students it asked nationwide are regular beer drinkers. By contrast, 57 percent of the non-students in the same age group regularly drink beer. Three years ago the same survey found that 70 percent of the students called themselves regular 'beer drinkers, recalls Mark Rose, CASS vice president. But this year's survey also found that astudents' average beer consumption has dropped from 54 to 50 ounces per week. That translates into a little more than four cans a week. \The college market is ex- I Enrollment Limited 1 .panding to include more beer , drinkers, but in a positive way,\ Rose concludes. \Students are drinking more responsibly, and they seem to drink because they (CPS)-\In the fall of 1980,.\ recalls the University of Maryland administrator., there was an attempt to limit enrollment imposed by the board of education. But the plan to limit enrolhnent at Maryland's main campus at College Park failed. Aiming to cut the student population by 400, enrollment increased by 200. Hoping that ·the 180 rejected students would go to other, less-crowded satellite campuses, the majority migrated out of state to attend college. · Such are the perils of ad· ministrators' most-recent in· novation: limiting enrollment. In fllinols, ·schools are using early application deadlines to limit enrollment. Northern Illinois and· Illinois State stopped accepting applications for next fall back in February, hoping to hold their student populations to 198() levels. To get into Florida State, high school grads now need at least .a 2.5 GPA and a combined Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) score of 950,. compared to last year's standards of 2.0 and 800. \A heavy shift in enrollment into business and engineering\ has the University of Idaho talking about imposing limits for the first time, reports ad~ missions Director Matt Telin. \What form the limits will take, I don't know. But there will be action this fall.\ Telin, like others, isn't sure the concept is positive. \My only concern is wl:lat happens to the students wh() get weeded out. Even though not everyone is cut out to be an engineer, it's good to have flexibility.\ \Even if rejected students are re-directed to other state schools,'' Berrier argues, ''tbey may choose community colleges, they may go out of state, or they may n()t go at all.\ Berrier thinks \the policy is unhealthy. It suggests that the state will prvid~ you with a place to go to sch11oi at a public institution, but nfJt necessarily the one of yolll' .e:]loice.\ Timing may torpedo the plana, too. A 1980 National Center for Ed1:ication Statistics study predicted national college enrollment W()oul(). peak in fall, 1981, and J>.eg~n its long- predicted declin~ in 198, when the number of 18-year-olds will fall off. The natural <lecline in the number of college-age people could be exacerbated by further cuts in federal student aid programs. College lobbyists predict as many as 890,000 students who would ordinarily enroll in 1983-84 wollld be driven from campus if President Reagan's budget recom- rnendations are enacted. And though ccllege ad- ministrators hope to com- pensate for the loss ()£ 18-year- olds with older and foreign students, a recent Chronicle of Higher Education survey found college applications are down from last spring's levels. enjoy the beer. There's much more variety in the beer they drink, especially in import beers.\ Cyndi Lewis-Shaffer, assistant director of the University of Florida's Alcohol Information Center and a spokeswoman for Boost Alcohol Consciousness Concerning the Health of University Students (BACCHUS), says the CASS figures are \right about in the ballpark\ with other recent studies of student alcohol use . Tie Knot, Nix Contract (CPS)-Jim G:rubbs thought he'd heard about every excuse imaginable :for- students to break their university housing contracts. As director of the residence halls at the University of Tennessee-Kilo~ille, Grubbs' duties incl11de seeing that students fulfill their one-year housing contracts, unless they can present a v:alid reason for moving. . Two dormitmy residents recently pre:se!lted him with probably the most dramatic ex:cuse he'll cone up against: a marriage contract. Gina Boardwine, a junior in nursing, and ICirby Henry, a junior in engineering, tied the knot in order to untie their 1Uliversity h()ousing agreements. Both Boar-dwine and Henry were dorm r-esidents, and wished to be I'eleased from their contracts so th.ey could move. - Evidently lacking other reasons, the two decided to move ahead iiu~ir wedding date so that they could escape the drudgeries {)If <lorm life. The two n..ewlyweds are currently incommunicado folloWing the b'Ul'st of publicity they receive~ in their efforts to relocate. It appears they would rather have kept the whole thing under wraps until they found the opportunity to inform their parents. Instead, the headlines in. their scho()l paper did the job for them~ \It really caused them a lot of trouble and embarrassment,\ says Alice McCorkle, Gina's former roommate. \1 think they'd just like to forget the whole thing and be left alone.\ Vote for Your Choice of U.M.O.C. This Week at Carnegie, Hale & West ·1oc per vote Winners wHI be announced at the 3rd Annual U.M.O.C. Band Party at the Alumni Gym featuring: BLOTTO $3 in advance $4 atthe door Free Miller Beer All UMOC proceeds to benefit United Way T:he Campus Store Presents PEANUTS@ by Charles M~. Schulz Beauty Tips YOU'RE NOT BEAUTIFUL! Cute Tips

Page 12 CONOORDIENSIS, April es, · 198S ' ..,. ·.Ji\J~l'J(fj.~~A~-\\\ .~ ' . ' II\, 0 L ' ~ ' ' ' ' .;....• What•s Hapipening Scheduled Events Week of April22-April28 April22, Thursday SEA Club sponsoring a lec- ture on the Adirondacks 7-11 pm in Stauss Leunge April 23, Friday Theta Delta Chi Band Party, 10-2 pm · Delta Upsilon 50's Party Film Committee presents \Casablanca\ and \Play it Again Sam\ 8 pm, SS 016 West's All Campus M-A..s-H Party, 3:30 West Beach. M-A-8- H attire suggested. Aprll 24, Saturday Sigma Delta Tau Chairty Party and Night club, Alumni Gym, 9:00. \Casablanca\ and \Play it Again Sam\ 8 pm, SS 016 April 26, Monday Mountebanks Cabaret, 6:30- 10:00, Cabaret Room. History Department spon- soring a Sadat Peace Lecture,· 7:30-9:30, ss 016. Film, \The 39 Steps\ 11 pm, ss 016 AprU 27, Tuesday Zeta Beta Tau's Ugliest Man on Campus Party featuring Blotto, 9 pm in the Alwnni Gym, $3.00. Careers in Computer Science, Discussion, 7-9 p.m., Fourth· Floor Carnegie Lounge. Aprn 28, Wednesday Women's Commission guest speaker, \Women ... in Search of What?\ 12-1 pm in Strauss Lounge Film \Seems Like Old Times\ 7, 9, and 11 in SS Olfl Women in Films Series. presents \The Jewish Wife\ Stage 2, 7:30. Act 1 : Anna Tucker and Joel 'Beckerman 30's and 40's Jazz Act 2: PaHy & The Trus1busters Patty Winters • Vocals Barb Bailey - Flute Joel Beckerman -Keyboards Chuck Cohen .. Drums Chris Del Signore • Guita~ MC: Sam Di Dio Thursday at 9:00 and 11 ~00 e Ices On Monday, April 26th the HALE HOUSE DINING HALL WILL BE CLOSED due to a previous commiHment. It will be closed for LUNCH ONLY. All students will be requested to eat in, OLD CHAPEL DINING HALL Pleas~ ENTER thru the door CLOSEST to the SECURITY SIDE of the Building. Notice Hale House will be closed on weekends for Saturday Brunch, Saturday Dinner and Sunday Brunch during Spring Term. Please patronize West College and the Rathskeller for your weekend meals. Hale House will be open for Sunday Dinner during Spring Term as long as participation remaifls high. Please note that the Main Dining Room will be· closed (because of a special event ,hosted by Admissions) for Monday's Lunch, April 26, 1982, however, Hale will be serving contract meals Monday as usual with access and seating in Old Chapel exclusively from 11:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. We hope that this will not Inconvenience you. Gene~ra:l .Not·tices For ticket information-call the Student Activities Box Office at 6351. Spring book sale at Schaffer Library, Tues. & Wed., Apri128- 29, 9 a.m.-10:30 p.m. Hard· covers 50 cents, paperbacks 25 cents.' Thank you. LAST CHANCE TO SIGN UP ~FOR SOCIALIZED MEDICINE SUMMER PROGRAM FOR 1982. Anyone interested' in spending an exciting summer investigating the health care institutions in the USA, Sweden and England, and at the same time take three courses and make up an entire term should consider this program. Please see Professor Thomas o'r Joan Freeman in HU 211. · Applications for winter term- s, 1983 will be accepted by the Terms Abroad office until May 1, 1982. Ttie programs for next winter will take place in Bogota, Colombia, Israel, and Greece. Each .of the programs requires a prerequisite course to be taken in the preceding term. For application blanks and information, please see Joan Freeman or Professor Thomas in HU 211 The American Fund for Dental Health offers scholar- ships of $2000 per year to MJmorlty students .. entering their first year of dental school. You must be accepted to an accredited dental school in the U.S. in order to apply. Minorities covered by this scholarship are: American Indians, Black Americans, Mexican~Americans, and Puerto Ricans. · Application deadline is May 1. Applications available in the Financial Aid Office. 1 F-EMALE GOLDEN RETRIEVER pup, 6 mon- ths-pld--light colored--LOST Sunday around 4 p.m. by Sigma Chi. Call Janet at 455-2146 (day) or 465-4278 (after 5). Many accepted candidates will be viSiting overnight this term, to help them decide if Union is the right college for them. Union would like to ac- commodate these accepted candidates, and would ap- preciate your help by hosting a student for a night. It is a good experience for both the host and the guest, and fun can be had by all. If you are interested, please contact: Michele Hudson . or Lydia Montagna at 370-6851 or Dave Battaglia at 370-6542. Thank you very mucy. Ushers needed for com\ mencement exercise. If in- terested·, contact: Michael Andolina at 6061 or Stop in Student Activities Office, Carhegie FOR SALE: Small wooden dresser. Will fit under wallmounted bed in suites. Dimensions: 2lh foot X 3 foot X 1.2 foot (bxlxw). Call 37()-6902. Co I Annu April D.J., door Th Suite Frid. wan .part: conti long held COU[l med to b•

Page 12 I. •. .... ~ l ' . ' ...... What's Happening Scheduled Events Week of April22-April28 Aprll22, Thursday SEA Club sponsoring a lec- ture on the Adirondacks 7-11 pm in Stauss Lounge April23, Friday Theta Delta Chi Band Party, 10-2 pm Delta Upsilon 50's Party Film Committee presents \Casablanca\ and \Play it Again Sam\ 8 pm, SS 016 West's All Campus M-A-s-H Party, 3: 30 West Beach. M-A-s- H attire suggested. April 24, Saturday Sigma Delta Tau Chairty Party and Night club, Alumni Gym, 9:00. \Casablanca\ and \Play it Again Sam\ 8 pm, SS 016 A prO 26, Monday Mountebanks Cabaret, 6:30- 10:00, Cabaret Room. History Department spon- soring a Sadat Peace Lecture, 7:30-9:30, ss 016. Film, \The 39 Steps\ 11 pm, ss 016 A prO 27, Tuesday Zeta Beta Tau's Ugliest Man on Campus Party featuring Blotto, 9 pm in the Alumni Gym, $3.00. Careers in Computer Science, Discussion, 7-9 p.m., Fourth Floor Carnegie Lounge. April 28, Wednesday Women's Commission guest speaker, \Women ... in Search of What?\ 12-1 pm in Strauss Lounge Film \Seems Like Old Times\ 7, 9, and 11 in SS 016 Women in Films Series presents \The Jewish Wife\ Stage 2, 7:30. CONCORDIENSIS, April SS, 1982 e Ices •• Cheryl and her designer· impossible-clean his room. $25 jeans-clad standards com~ an hour due to extenuating . mittee: Great job and we. love circumstances, If interested you a lot. Guess who. call6789 and ask for Tim. Sonia-Hey babyl Come visit Have you cleaned your room me. asshole. I miss you. . yet? Cheer up Tim and have a ~------\-- great day. We luv you. in spite of A.l. ++FAST. you're erazy. yow· mess! Love The General was fun. wild adventure? call, and The Pacifist · i'mthere. 100 Mary-congrats! Enjoy it- -~-~~~~-- but I only have one question, is In search of RHW, ICB, it real? M.G. and L.G. · Sco.oters, summer sun, uninhibited fun and -whoelse Steve, Happy third anniversary! t t! l Always remember that even if you're wasted, I still love you! ! !l ! !! Love, Amazing Ile-ne-Thanks for putting a little spirit back into nur ha\1$e! ! Love today~ tomorrow, and always-One of the Bfllisers There once\ was. a iokester named Bill who gave cabaret · quite a thrill ms. jokes ain't S<l bot but .I likeJlim a lot ann·~ hope<that we .are fri~ndS •• .stru ·NANCY- ltAPPY BIRTHDAY!!. We ·love you .• : . LOVE ALWAYS, TbeS.L.G.s 31~ D, You best bewar~ ~Yol1 did something qmte unfair We .Qidn't touch your underwear Well1 we aren't mad 'euz we kniHV you care But now you may just have t~> go bal\el!! To Whom it May Concern: . We want another clue . , • who the hell are you'? You got .MY number? 867..&09?? WRONG 1 ! ! ·I DON'T watch you reproduce .. • So ... KUMMERE DICH UM Dl!aNE EIGENEN Karen, Cheryl, and Debbie- thanks for all the love and pl\ayers. ~And remember \Praise the Lord!\ Love ya, M~G. TC-Thanks. for the Physic's help. Have you cleaned your room yet? Just kidding and thanks fnr being such a good sport~ D-Wbat a night to remember, · jllSt wish, thatd -c()Uld, If ,l'd skipped the · -Hipping,. than maybe I woUld, .But yo.u racked your brain, I missed my train, · And we passed. out? or.cr .. ed? far g{)od! -J · B {alias R)... ~ · ·~.. · .· ~· i . ~ What ~ wt;nld I ·dO without .. ·a eoaeh like ·· · yonY-pro~ably frolick an day in the $tm l Jock (alias tooth f~y) Future Brotbers ·Of .P.:S.K.- Good Luck at initiation! ll LoveL.S. Whether Ws chicken cordon bleu or one percent milkfat potage fromage:, eating with you is. an adventure. Pick up what? Clambake clam:bake! ! Kibbut2niks, Congradulations on your Bar Mitzvahs. x .. mastree Liz Lustrin for UMOC '82. Joe Maneen Jr. for UMOC '82. ;L r , Judybeth Greene for UMQC '82. When I told you I loved you it didn't mean I imew you'd never .go, only that I wished you didn't have to. Now 1 d()n't tell you, and in a few short weeks you really are going . . . To the chairman of the Board of Slander Enterprises: This term the Skellar next spring maxim's! Respectfully, The Pres. NOEL: I'll buy a ticket as soon as I get my personal. By the way. I beard they're opening .a new Bloomingdale's around here! OH GODl RAT-You recally shouldn't ground T-Bird before it's bad a chance to fly!-GRK! C~RA~ef.W.,,up attd t. may ev-let y:{!~ .raid the jar •..• tfbe M&M:Supply~ T. Brothets/Qf Pbi Sigma Kappa- .. Qet ready . • QU ADRATHALON IS COMING!!! L.S. of P.S.K. CONGRADULATIONS!! l Here's to an' amazing pledge- class and an amazing Fraternity .. •WELCOME · TO PHI SIGMA KAPPA!!! Love. Your Little Sisters ANGELEGENHEITEN!-·A&K r:====~·~=~ :. : .. -=··==============; FUSE AND SHINE AT CLUB 419! S.LOB seeks MlRACLEWOltKER to do the On Monday, April 26th the HALE HOUSE DINING HALL WILL BE CLOSED due to a previous committment. It will be closed for LUNCH ONLY. Act 1 : Anna Tucker and Joel Beckerman 30's and 40's Jazz All students will be requested to eat in OLD CHAPEL DINING HALL Please ENTER thru the door ClOSEST to the SECURITY SIDE of the Building. Ad 2: PaHy & lite Trustbusters PaHy Win1ers .. Vocals Barb Bailey • Flute Joel Beckerman -Keyboards Chuck Cohen • Drums Chris Del Signore · Guitar MC: Sam Di Dio Thursday at 9:00 and 11 :00 Notice Hale House will be closed on weekends for Saturday Brunch, Saturday Dinner and Sunday Brunch during Spring Term. Please patronize West College and the Rathskeller for your weekend meals. Hale House will be open for Sunday Dinner during Spring Term as long as participation remains high. Please note that the Main Dining Room will be closed (because of a special event hosted by Admissions) tor Monday's Lunch, April 26, 1982, however, Hale will be serving contract meals Monday as usual with access and seating in Old Chapel exclusively from 11:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. We hope that this will not inconvenience you. General Nottices For ticket information-call the Student Activities Box Office at 6351. Spring book sale at Schaffer Library, Tues. & Wed., Apri128- 29, 9 a.m.-10:30 p.m. Hard- covers 50 cents, paperbacks 25 cents. Thank you. LAST CHANCE TO SIGN UP 'FOR SOCIALIZED MEDICINE SUMMER PROGRAM FOR 1982. Anyone interested in spending an exciting summer investigating the health care institutions in the USA, Sweden and England, and at the same time take three courses and make up an entire term should consider this program. Please see Professor Thomas or Joan Freeman in HU 211. Applications for winter term- s, 1983 will be accepted by the Terms Abroad office until May 1, 1982. The programs for next winter will take place in Bogota, Colombia, Israel, and Greece . Each of the programs requires a prerequisite course to be taken in the preceding term. For application blanks and information, please see Joan Freeman or Professor Thomas in HU 211 The American Fund for Dental Health offers scholar- ships of $2000 per year to Mlmority students · entering their first year of dental school. You must be accepted to an accredited dental school in the U.S. in order to apply . Minorities covered by this scholarship are: American Indians, Black Americans, Mexican-Americans, and Puerto Ricans. Application deadline is May 1. Applications available in the Financial Aid Office. 1 FEMALE GOLDEN RETRIEVER pup, 6 mon- ths-old--light colored--LOST Sunday around 4 p.m. by Sigma Chi. Call Janet at 455-2146 (day) or 465-4278 (after 5). Many accepted candidates will be visiting overnight this term, to help them decide if Union is the right college for them. Union would like to ac- commodate these accepted candidates, and would ap- preciate your help by hosting a student for a night. It is a good experience for both the host and the guest, and fun can be had by all. If you are interested, please contact: Michele Hudson or Lydia Montagna at 370-6851 or Dave Battaglia at 370-6542. Thank you very rnucy. Ushers needed .for com- mencement exercise. If in- terested, contact: Michael Andolina at 6061 or Stop in Student Activities Office, Carnegie FOR SALE: Small wooden dresser. Will fit under wallmounted bed in suites. Dimensions: 2¥.! foot x 3 foot x 1.2 foot (hxlxw). Call 376-6902. I • ,( 4.1..... ' \\ ( ,. ~ \ \,. G ~ Cor Annu. April D.J., door Th4 Suite Fridl Wall• part~ conti long held coup mecU to bE

b • ,.,<l (' ~ - \.. •. ,. • e v-:._.,._ JA Q \_ <I .•• D:U's 50's Party Come to Delta Upsilon's 54th Annual 50's party on Friday, April 23. There will be a live D.J., beer, wine, punch and door prizes for best outfits. Delta Phi Suitcase Party The Fifth Annual Delta Phi Suitcase Party will be held on Friday night April30, at Union's Wallace S. Girling Center. The .party begins at 11 p.m. and continues until sun-up. A night long elimination drawing 'Will be held for prizes. The winning couple will be whisked im- mediately off to Albany Airport to be flown to sunny Nassau in CONOORDlENSIS, April BB, ·1988 e Ices I On Tije Greek flOnt I the Bahamas. The couple will A bottle of champagne will be ·based on raffle sales, Derby enjoy an aU expense paid, three given to every sixth couple chase, quarter bounce, and the day two night vacation. drawn. events held at the Clambake. Due to safety codes we regret So if you want to have an Money raised by your raffle that only 400 people (200 exciting and suspenseful sales will be donated to a local couples) will be able to attend. evening, pick up your ticket charity in the team's name. Tickets are now on sale at the from Mrs. Marra. If you have Hurry! Organize a team and student activities office thro:ugh any questions call Mike or Dan call us to register. The deadline Mrs. Marra. The tickets cost $15 at 382-9159. Tickets will go is April 3oth. Contact George per couple. The price of the quickly so pick one up soon. Cholakis or Rick Russell at 382 .. tickets includes: the expenses Aloha, 9582. of the trip, a second prize of The Brothers of Delta Phi dinner for two at Lillian's in Saratoga, and 36 consolation prizes ef a bottle of champagne. · There will be free beer, and mixed drinks will be sold for a I minimai fee at the bar. All couples attending the party should bring a packed suitcase because it is possible that you will be spending the weekend in the Bahamas. The ticket stubs will be placed in a sealed box and will be drawn at intervals throughout the party. Derby Day Attention Union women; the 14th annual Sigma Chi Clam- bake and Derby Day Com- petition will soon be upon us. The competition provides teams with a chance to do something charotable for the un- derprivileged. ' Derby Day teams should consist of at least 10 women. Scoring of tha competition is Theta Delta Chi Rock On Friday, April 23rd, the Rock band, Halloween, will be making an appearance at Theta Delta Chi. As always, admission will be free and punch and beer will be served. There should ,be plenty of dancing so come up and kick up your heels. ZBT·UMOC Vote for your choice of UMOC this week at West, Hale and Carnegie. Just 10 cents per vote. Leaders will be posted daily at the UMOC voting booth. Lots of prizes. It pays to be ugly. The winners of the UMOC competition will be announced Page 18 at our 3rd annual UMOC Band party the Tuesday featuring BLOTTO. Tickets are $3 in advance and $4 at the door. All . the Miller beer you can drink, door prizes, and the chance to see the crowning of this years UMOC are included in tbe price of the ticket, so buy your tickets now!!! All UMOC proceeds go to benefit the United Way. Phi Sigma Kappa's Charity Raffle Please· support Phi Sigma Kappa's chairty raffle sale . First prize is $75, 2nd prize is $50 and 3rd prize is $25. Plus: special prizes from the Electric Grinch, records· complements of Record Town, 100 free plays at Barrel of Fun, free film tickets complements of Film Committee, 1 bottle of cham- pagne complements of Moffitts Liquor, pitchers from the Dutch Hollow Pub, pizza from Pizza Hut and more ... Drawing May 14, 1982. ' 54th Annual 0!f <J~e Otber frollt • ''Th~ Or;igJn,~_l. SO's Party'' ' . Friday, April 23 Live D.J. Beer, W~ine, Punch & Prizes for Best Outfits DOUBLE FEATURE! Casablanca and Play It Again Sam April 23-25 at 8:00 $1.00 THE39STEPS Janus Films and Films Incorporated Presented by Union College Film Committee Mo.n., Apr. 26 at 10:0,0 FREE Attention all Big Br.others· Big Sisters Big Brothers-Big Sisters is sponsoring a trip to Riverside Amusement Park for Union Big Brothers-Big Sisters and their Iittles. DATE: Saturday, May 1. For more information check your mailbox or pick up an information form at the Student Activities Box Office. French Fun There will be a French table at the Pub every Monday at 12:30 p.m. Anyone interested in informal conversation should drop by. The newly formed French Club is also sponsoring a film evening every Thursday at 7:30 p.m. This week's film will be Hiroshima Mon Amour in Hu 019 Psi Chi Psi Chi (the psychology honor society) presents: \Best Boy\ a film about a mentally retarded man who is adopted by two elderly people. It will be shown on April27 in SS016 at 8:30p.m. Admission is only one dollar. Chevy 'Goldie Charles Ch-se Hawn Grodin Neil Simon's SEEMS bKEODTIMEs COLUMBIA PICTURES Presents A RAY STARK Production CHEVY CHASE GOLDIE HAWN CHARLES GRODIN IN \NEIL SIMON'S SEEMS LIKE OLD TIMES\ AJAY SANDRICH FILM ROBERT GUILLAUME MusiC by MARVIN HAM LISCH EKeculrveProducer ROGER M. ROTHSTEIN ProducloonD .. ognedby GENE CALLAHAN Oorec1or ol Pho1ography DAVID M. WALSH Wntten by NEIL SIMON ~ Proauced bY RAY STARK OLJocted by JAY SANDRICH ..... GI.Jl(JAM1 SUOOESTED e Original soundtrac-k. on.Aud•O FROM RASTAR ~ PG PARENTAL Fidelity records and tapes ~uoc.owue•\' '\t 1 ulliiS SOME MA'r!fW,LMAY NOT GEIUITAIU! FOfta«.Dff[H ·~Dv$11'111ES l\fC. Wed., Apr. 28 at 7, 9 & 11 : oo $1.00

CONCORDIENSIS, April :8!, ·198S Page 18 e Ices I On Tije Greek frOnt I ·, \ th~ Bahamas. The co~ple will A bottle of champagne will be ·based on raffle sales, Derby . . . enJOY an a~ expense pa1d, three given to every sixth couple chase, quarter bounce,. and the day two mght vacatwn. drawn. events held at the Clambake. \.. . .. ~ ~ ... ..;.0 ... -.. ...... .:: ......... Due to safety codes we regret So if you want to have an Money raised by your raffle that only. 400 people (200 exciting and suspenseful sales will be donatedt<> a local at our 3rd annual UMOC Band party the Tuesday featuring BLOTTO. Tickets are $3 in advance and $4 at the door. All the Miller beer you can drink, door prizes, and the chance to see the crowning of this years UMOC are included in the price of the ticket, so buy your tickets now!!! c~uples) Will be able to attend. evening, pick up your ticket charity in the team's IIame. Tickets ar~ ~~w on ~ale at the from Mrs. Marra. If you have Hurry! Organize a team and DU's 50's Party Corne to Delta Upsilon's 54th Annual 50's party on Friday, April 23. There will be a live D.J., beer, wine, punch and door prizes for best outfits. student acttvltles ?ffiCe through any questions call Mike or Dan call us to register. The deadline Mrs. Marra. The tlck~ts cost $15 at 382-9159. Tickets will go is April 30th. Contaet George ~r couple. The pr1ce of the quickly so pick one up soon. Cholakis or Rick RllSsell at 382- ttckets mcludes: the expenses Aloha 9582. of the trip, a second prize of The Brothers of Delta Phl dinner for two at Lillian's in Saratoga, and 36 consolation prizes of a bottle of champagne. Delta Phi Suitcase Party The Fifth Annual Delta Phi Suitcase Party will be held on Friday night Apri130, at Union's Wallace S. Girting Center. The party begins at 11 p.m. and continues until sun~up. A night long eli:mination drawing will be held for prizes. The winning couple will be whisked im- mediately (i)ff to Albany Airport to be frown to sunny Nassau in There will be free beer, and mixed drinks will be sold for a 1 minimal fee at the bar. All couples attending the party should bring a packed suitcase because it is possible that you will be spending the weekend in the Bahamas. The ticket stubs will be placed in a sealed box and will be drawn at intervals throughout the party. Derby Day Attention Union women; the 14th annual Sigma Chi Clam- bake and Derby Day Com- petition will soon be upon us. The competition provides teams with a chance to do something charotable for the un- derprivileged. Derby Day teams should consist of at least 10 women. Scoring of th~ competition is 54th Annual 50's PARTY \The Original SO's Party\ Friday. April 23 Live D.J. Beer, W-ine, Punch & Prizes for Best Outfits DOUBLE FEATURE! Casablanca and Play It Again Sam April 23-25 at 8:00 $1.00 THE39STEPS janus Films and Films Incorporated Presented by Union College Film CommiHee Mon., Apr. 26 at 10:00 FREE Theta Delta Chi llock On Friday, April 23rd, the Rock band, Halloween, will be making an appearance at Theta Delta Chi. As always, !ldmission will be free and punch and beer will be served. There should be plenty of dancing so come up and kick up your heel.s. ZBT-UMOC Vote for your choice of UMOC this week at West, Hale and Carnegie. Just 10 cents per vote. Leaders will be posted daily at the UMOC voting bootll. Lots of prizes. It pays to be ugly. The winners of th~ UMOC competition will be mnounced All UMOC proceeds go to benefit the United Way. Phi Sigma Kappa •s Charity Raffle Please support Phi Sigma Kappa's chairty raffle sale. First prize is $75, 2nd prize is $50 and 3rd prize is $25. Plus: special prizes from the Electric Grinch, records complements of Record Town, 100 free plays at Barrel of Fun, free film tickets complements of Fihn Committee, 1 bottle of cham- pagne complements of Moffitts Liquor, pitchers from the Dutch Hollow Pub, pizza from Pizza Hut and more ... Drawing May 14, 1982. OQ Cf~~ Otber ~raQt Attention all Big Brothers- Big Sisters Big Brothers-Big Sisters is sponsoring a trip to Riverside Amusement Park for Union Big Brothers-Big Sisters and their littles. DATE: Saturday, May 1. For more information check your mailbox or pick up an information form at the Student Activities Box Office. French Full There will be a French table at the Pub every tv1onday at 12:30 p.m. Anyone interested in informal conversation should drop by. The newly formed French Club is also sponsoring a film :!vening every Thursday at 7:30 p.m. This week's film will be Hiroshima Mon Amour in Hu 019 Psi Chi Psi Chi (the psychology honor society) presents: \Best Boy\ a film about a mentally retarded man who is adopted by two elderly people. It will be shown on April27 in SS016 at 8:30 p.m. Admission is only one dollar. Chewy Chase Goldie Charles Hawn Grodin Neil Simon's 5EEf&fS bKEOD ks COLUMBIA PICTURES \•esents A RAY STARK Produclton CHEVY CHASE GOLDIE HAWN CHARLES GRODIN IN'.NEIL SIMON'S SEEMS LIKE OLD TIMES' A JAY SAND RICH FILM ROBERT GUILLAUME v\s\ \'MARVIN HAMLISCH E '\'\'\' Poodu\' AGGER M ROTHSTEIN P•oo\'''''\ n ... go\\b' GENE Cl\LLAHAN D·rectc>~ ,,rP\hotograph- DAVID M WALSH v•t· \C\b., NEIL SIMON ~ P•oo\\\\' RAY STARK\'\\'\'\' JAY SANDRICH .,.... ~G~-.,-G-,~-•\\'!>tJOOESTIO <EO!>] Oo•g·nal so\ndt•a<\ on Auoh• '\' '\ RAS TAR~ P ! PARENT\'- __ lniJftnllt Fr<ll•hty rctords and rapes _: \c..~ I,.OIJ \'.\·~· ... a•\ SQMIMATtR\AlMAYNOl8EWIT.-.alflt()llleta.DRl:N '------- ---- - \'(llv~ l'l•!'5 ,.~ Vlled., Apr. 28 at7, 9 & 11 :00 $1.00

Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS,. April ~!, 1982 . . . ' ' ' . ~ ' ' . ·' . ' . • ~ ' ' ~ ' • • ' c Union· Softball Undefeated. After Three By LE&LIE GUTIN Sports Staff Well, so far so good! The women's softball team has started off their season with three victories. The first game was a hard fought contest against Siena, a strong op· ponent. In the first two innings Siena scored four runs, con- sequently all they were to score against a seemingly shaky Union defense. To make mat- ters worse, for the first three innings Union's batting was anything but powerful. After the first two innings, however, Union's defense came together and played a tight game, keeping Siena scoreless. With the psyche from the defensive play, the until-then latent power of Union's batter:; reared its head and the scoring began. The fifth inning was an especially gGod one for Union, in which they capitalized on some key errors by .Siena. The seven Union hits, helped by some aggressive baserunning, enabled Union to score six runs for a final score of 6-4, quite a turnabout from the first two innings of play. Some of the highlights of the game included a home run by Carol Wrem1, solid pitching by Dina Pliotis, strong defense by freshman shortstop Peg Petro, and a spectacular throw from cen- terfielder Brenda Hugick to catcher Carolyn Bigda to tag out a runner at the plate. The second game, against a less threatening Skidmore team, was a little wilder on the whole, with a final score of 16-8. Skidmore used three different pitchers but still gave up over 11 walks, with five in the first inning and six in the last, On the Track By J.G. Sports Staff The newly formed women's track team was one of eight that competed Saturday at the Albany State Invitational meet. Despite the blU$.tery weather, the team turned out many fine performances, placing fourth overall. Dominating the distance events were jWliors Danielle Cherniak, taking first in the 10k (40:20.78) and fifth in the 3000 meter run (11:41.59), and Inge Stockman leading the 1500 meter run with a time of (5:08.53) and capturing second place in the 3000 meter run (11:17.60). Freshmen also scored to aid the Dutchwomen in reaching their final team score of 50 points. Janice Glidden took second in the heptathlon, scoring 3629 points. Events included: 100 meter hurdles (18.4), shot put (7.29m}, high __ jump (1.37m), 200 meter dash (30.6), long jump (4.45m), javelin throw (28.36m), and 800 meter run (2:31.48}. Field events were covered by JoAnn Feeney, clearing 4'6\ in the high jump, securing fifth place, and Beth Chauncey throwing the javelin 20.22 meters for a fifth place and the discus 20.32 meters for a sixth. Third in the 880 yard medley relay, with a time of 2:08.30 was the team of Audrey Churchill, JoAnn Feeney, Beth Chauncey and Andrea Grief. Also rwming well for the Dutchwomen were Mei Ching Tse, Kathy Healy, and Donna Greenfield. Saturday the women travel to Hartwick College for the Hartwick Invitational meet. We wish them the best of luck! Women's Lacrosse. By SHARON PEARL Sports Staff Women's lacrosse posted a double victory over Russell Sage as varsity won 11-3 and JV, 10-0. In the varsity game, Emily Monosson was leading scorer with six goals while Sheryl Katz had four and Liz Garcia scored one. \We played better than we did against Skidmore, but we can play even better,\ said coach Marty Morrison. \We dominated the game and out- played Sage's man-to-man defense, but Union has hopes of playing against a zone defense like some of the tougher teams have. The team is playing well and was pleased with the win, but they are still in the process of molding themselves and getting used to working with each other.\ This win puts the varsity record at 1-1 as the team looks to a busy week ahead with away games against Wells on Friday, University of Rochester on Saturday, and West Point on Monday. The JV team had several scorers with Michelle Li putting in three, Emily Haft, Heidi Horak and Robin Rosenbaum with two each, and Laurie Bidstrup scoring one. This sets their record at 2-0 as they face a tough match against Wells on Friday. The next home games for women's lacrosse will be on April 28th vs. ,Castleton for varsity and on May 3rd both squads will battle Middlebury. Get out to support your teams,! This week in WOMEN'S SPORTS Today Friday Saturday Softball at Siena Women 1 s Lacrosse A & Bat Wells Softballvs. RPI11:30 Women's Lacrosse at Rochester Women's Track- Hartwick lnvy · Softball vs. New Paltz 3:30 Monday Women's Lacrosse at West Point Tuesday Women's Track- Albany State Wednesday Women's Lacrosse vs. Castleton 4:00 enabling Union to score a rmmber of unearned runs.ln the second inning, Union's defense, in an attempt to imitate the Skidmore .girls, fell apart and allowed five rl:lils to score. The defense finally ·settled down in the la&t few innings and kept the Skidmore team in check. The six walks and six runs given up by Skidmore in the last inning insured a Union victory, the score having been a close 10-8 going into the inning. Highlights for the Skidmore game included fine pitching by Dina Pliotis, solid hitting and errorless fielding by shortstop Peg Petro, and heads-up play throughout the game by rightfielder Karen Roth. The last game, against Williams, was, as called by a spectator, \a battle of the pitchers.'' Usually that means a low scoring game. This game, however, had more to do with the number of walks the pit· chers gave up. In all, Williams. won that contest by far and gave up over 20 walks, and the :final score w:as 24-13 in favor of Union. Highlights included powerful hitting by Kelly Liese and consistent relief pitching by Kirsten Peterson. On the wbole, the softball tea:m has shown their weakest point to be settling down and playing heads-up defense and offense from the very first play to the last. Strangely enough, tbeir strongest point bas been that once they do settle down, the 'Offense and defense work together so well that Union appears unbeatable, So far so good. With three wins under their belts in three games the State Tournament seems closer and closer to reality. THE WORLD IS YO R CAMPUS AROUND THE WORLD: sails Sept. 8, 1982 from Seattle - Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, India, Israel, Egypt, Greece, Spain. AROUND THE WORLD voyages are planned for 1983. Apply early. Sponsored b~the University of Pittsburgh. MorP than 60 u111ver~ity courses. with in-port and voyage-related emphasis. Faculty from Umversit~· of Pittsburgh and other leadmg universities, augmented by visiting area experts. Optional tours, mclud111g special tours into the People's Republic of China. available. Participation ts open to qualified students from all accredited colleges and universities. Semester at Sea admits ~tudents without regard to color, race .or creed. The S.S. Universe is fully air- conditiont:d, 18.000 tons, registered in Liberia and built in A.menca. For a free color brocbure, write: Semester at Sea, UCIS, University of Pittsburgh, Forbes Quadrangle, Pittsburgh, PA l$260, or can toll free (800) 854-0195 (in California call (714) 771·6590}. The Union College Arts Department presents STUDENT DIES Written & Directed by Natalie Barandes Every-thing you've always wanted to know about college students but were afraid to •.. An Ex peri menta I Musical Play Created & Performed by College Students \ PERFORMANCES: May 6, 7, a and May 13, 14, 15 ot the Nott. Memorial Theater TICKETS: Available beginning Friday· at Carnegie Hall $2.00 student $3.00 non-student 0 .... 0 ,!;; a. 0 en ~r: t Cont and agai gott brot doul that to g in t ma1 the; wh~ cra1 • •

~ .r::. c. OONOORDIENSIS, April SB, 1981 Page liS Ath;lete of the Week Ey MIKESHAR.P ~ports Staff Dan Stewart of the Union College men's tennis team has garnered Athlete of tQe Week ·honors for the fourth week of the spring :ter!Jl. Dan earned his honors with outstanding match play ,in 'both doubles and singles tennis. · In singles play, Dan is 4.0 for the .season, with victories against Hartwick, Hobart. Skidmore, and Siena. In do~bles match :play, Dan and partner Rich Molot are 4-1. Their only loss came against Hobart in a·6- 7, 7 -6,. ~-6 match. number three position. Dan is .known to many as quarterback of the Dutchmen football team. Along with ·co- quarterback Roger Harris, Dan led the .football squad to their best season in ten years. Dan hails from Norwin, PA, where he was a triple letter winner in football, basketball· and tennis, for Norwin High School. Dan is no newcomer to spo_rts honors as _he was Penn- sylvania State champion in doubles teMis. Sports Notes: ByCNBand LUK:E FANON on ULTIMATE Skating Dutchmen Elect Co-Captains Junior forward Tod Fobare and junior defenseman Scott Fitzgerald have been elected co-captains for the 1982-83 hockey season it was announced by head coach Charlie Morrison. Both players were captains of the 1981-82 team that finished with its best record in four years; Union posted a 13- 10-1 Division II record and was 13-15-1 against overall com- .petition, which included five Division I opponents. games during that time span. Durham, whose injury is classified as a second degree sprain, currently leads Union in scoring with 36 points on 20 goals and 16 assists. Durham suffered the injury in the third period against Geneseo but finished the cont~st with two goals and two assists. · Olscers Split in Tourney The Union Ultimate Frisbee Team, the Crispy Critters, opened their season Sunday with a 14-13 win over Hamilton and a disappointing overtime loss to host Skidmore, 12-13. 0 . Due to his fine performances on the court, Dan was recently moved outof his number six slot in the team rankings to the Dan is an engineering major and pledge of the Delta Upsilon fraternity. Congratulations to Dan and the best of luck to him and the rest of the Dutchmen tennis squad for the spring of 1982. Fobare had his best season last year as he scored 34 points on 22 goals and 32 assists. The 5'9\ 155-pounder shows a thref.,. year total of 120 points on 46 goals and 74 assists. He is only 13 points away from establishing a new all-time College record. In their initial contest, the Critters completely dominated Hamilton until the final three minutes when Hamilton rallied to pull within two. However, .Hamilton was stopped by the Union defense and when the sehmid rule was enforced at the end of the second half (the teams keep on playing until a goal is scored), the Critters relaxed allowing Hamilton to score, ending the match. en Continued from page 16 and Wood teamed together again in the third as Saccocio got on on an error and then was brought home by a Joe Wood double to left centerfield. But that was as close as Uriion was to get as Utica scored two runs in the top of the fifth. Union made one final stab at utica in the sixth as junior Andy Dreher, who went 3-5 on the day, cranked a home run to right centerfield. aut Utica's pitching bore down on the Dutchmen and swept the doubleheader. Sophomore Dave Packer went the distance for coach Sakala, pitching six innings while giving up three earned runs. ·Dutchmen got right back on the winning track Monday as they ventured to Troy to defeat RPI 1:2-11. Senior Paul McGrath got his second win .of the season , as he scattered 12 RPI hits. Stars of the game for Union were Mike Saccocio, Andy Dreher and Ed Moriarty. Saccocio continued to slap the ball all over the diamond Monday as he got 3 RBI's and went 2-3 with two walks. Dreher ended up scoring Union's winning run in the eighth as he led off the inning with a triple, and was driven in on a Tom Fitzgerald, who missed the entire 1981-82 season with a sboulder separation and . was lost for the first 13 games last year because of mononucleosis, is considered an outstanding , defenseman. He finished the campaign with 14 points on two goals and 12 assists and was elected as the ECAC's \Defenseman of the Week\ during the season. •••••••••••••••••:•• ••••••·•••\'•:-•·•·•- \. ~lackburn sin~le. ,Blackburn's . smgle was h1s second game . Du.rbam's Sprained Knee SeniQr captain Sean Durham, Union College's leading scorer and All-American candidate, ls expected to miss the next two weeks of the lacrosse season due to a knee sprain suffered last Monday during a 10-91oss to Geneseo State. Union, 2-5, is scheduled to play at least four The Critters went into their contest against Skidmore highly confident, for Hamilton had handily defeated the Skiddies in the first game. However, Skidmore jumped to a quick 4-1 lead, which they lenghthened to 9-4 at the end of the first halrf. The Critters regrouped in the second half scoring five unanswered goals to even the score at nine to nine. It looked as though Union's momentwn would carry them to victory, but the Skiddies rallied and the two teams exchanged goals until they were tied at schmid. The Skiddies won it in the first two minutes of schmid scoring their thirteenth goal to end the exciting match. I . t I winning hit of the season. ·n ram U ra Moriarty worked well all day behind the plate, blocking balls B • in the dirt and ending the game 0 X I ng on a foul popup. Sophomore ' Mark Cietek registered his first Tonight Alumni Gym •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Baseball Sports Happenings April22-29 Varsity Lacrosse April22 RPI . 1:00 April 24atNorwich {2) 1:00 April26 Hamilton 3:30 Apri l27at Colgate (2) 1: 00 April29 at LeMoyne (2) 1:00 April24 RPI 8:00 April28atWilliams 4:00 April24 RPI 2:00 Apri 128 at Wi II iams 4: 00 April24 at Dartmouth Invitational April24 Hamuton · l: 00 April27 RPI 3:00 Apri 129 at Wi !Iiams 1: 00 Aprii24Aibany Med 1:00 J. V. Lacrosse Track Tennis Golf Rugby Cornell Law School ~ Under1Jradoate Prt1aw Program June 7 to July 20, 1982 A demanding six-week program for college students who want to learn what law school is like. For further inforrJ~ation write to Jane G. Death, Cornell Law School 634 Myron Taylor Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853 save of the season as he came in to relieve McGrath in the ninth. 1982 GRADUATES Have You Ordered Your Cap and Gown? Bachelor Outfit - $14.95 Master Outfit - $16.95 Doctor 1 s Outfit - $18.95 (Plus tax) - Deadline is April 28th Place your order TODAY CAMPUS STORE • UNION COLLEGE

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, April 2i3, 1982 Lacrosse Downs Oneonta -..... ByDONBEALL Sports Staff scored 51 out of 87 total goals in the first half. The Dutchmen shut out their opponents again in the third quarter this time only scoring two goals them- selves. With an 8-2 lead going into the fourth quarter, Union perhaps became content with their performance and let Oneonta outscore them 4-2 yielding a final score of 1(),6. game on defense as he received team MVP for the game. The Dutchmen .played on April 21 against Middlebury and on April 24 face archrival RPI. Lacrosse Notes: Tri-captain and AB-Americ_an candidate Sean Durham is still out with a knee injury. He may be able to play en Saturday against RPI. Mike Maluccio is also out with .a knee .injury. Mtke may be able to start playing again this week. Charlie Freni recently got over a tough bout with the flu and should be able to resume play against Middlebury. Jamie Bono has a pulled hamstring. Bob Tavlor is out with a con- cussion. Mark Sackerson coached the JV team on Wed- nesday as they also .played Mid4lebury. Union Attackman Jim Wright The Union · lacrosse team made a strong rebirth after dropping two last week. They outplayed their opponents in all areas of the game. Union out- shot Oneonta 48-37. The Dut- chmen also did an outstanding job at faceoffs due to Dave Schumann's !5 for 6) and Marc Marro's (5 for 7) efforts. The laxmen did an especially good job at ground balls. Even though Oneonta had a soft field, Union still scoopeo ~3 ground balls as opposed t' only 72 ground balls I \ their challengers. Union made 16 clears out of ~ atteElpts and shut dmvn 16 of Oneonta's W clearing a~ tempts. The Dut- chmen did a good job of riding Oneonta's dears even though they were not ::~ 1 l e tv convert many of them tu g<,als. Union started off the first quarter by outscoring Oneonta 3-2. They had an even stronger second quarter as they shut off Oneonta's offense and netted three goals themselves. This typifies Union's previous performance as they have Freshmen Marc Ehudin paced the Dutchmen's offense with two goals and two assists. Freshman George Murray also carne through big with two goals and freshman Paul Stephan, who just came .out after the spring break, got an assist. Billy Baur who has consistently been playing well, tallied two goals as did hard driving Marc Morrow. Veterans Steve Meyers and Jim Wright added a goal each to complete the Dutchmen's strong of- fensive punch. Tri-captains John Mercer and Steve Koscs both did good jobs as they split the game in the nets. Tri-captain Dana Johnston and Steve Sullivan both came through with solid defensive play and sophomore Ben Maynard played an outstanding Rugby Crushes Vassar Baseball .500 Ey SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff Last '.Lhursday the weather broke and the 1982 baseball campaign got off to a good start as the Garnet and Grey won its opener against Williams 5-3. Senior righthander Paul McGrath proved that he would be the reliable ace of Coach Sakala's young hurling corps. McGrath went the distance for Union giving up two earned runs and scattering 11 Williams hits. Union drew first blood in top half of the second inpiit'lg when junior centerfielder Mike Sa4:!t:Ocio off the •m•u•s rightfielder stepped up to on a single to on top, 1.0. · Williams aru;we~f,€ of their own the bottom Both each other any scoring. front in the fourth as they outs to take a battled right back junior DH-catcher led off the stanza left field that was a double. After a Union leftfielder Andy Dreher Moriarty with a line shot middle. Union went into the eighth inning up 3-2 thanks to timely hitting by junior co-captain George Oberstadt and Mike Saccocio. Garnet came up with a big inning to increase their lead to fl-2. Senior shortstop Al DiUbero got things going with a leadoff single. DiLibero was moved to third as freshman Tim Ali bozek collected his first collegiate hit. After retiring the next Dutchmen hitter, Williams decided that they had seen enough of Mike Saccocio for the day and intentionally walked him to load the bases. But Union's eventual winning runs came off the bat of sophomore pinchhitter Tom Blackburn. Blackburn ripped a two-out bases loaded single to score both Dil.ibero and Alibozek and gave th• Dutchmen a three-run lead. Senior Paul McGrath, who upped his career record to 4-0, got stronger as this opening day older. McGrath put the Cows down one-two- eighth and got out of ninth to put the back on the road 5-3 win over a team -•,uu.~<;1~:: and Union trouble on recent years. 's Dutchmen long to savor as they came for a I bases by Sacc:ocio Joe Wood who both got on walks. came back in the inning to rock Union ttcnJug for six runs to go up 6-3. upping their lead to 7-3 in fifth, coach Sakala decided relieve freshman righty Nat with sophomore fork- Mark Cietek. Cietek went •. on to pitch scoreless baseball for the last three innings (they . play two seven-inning games in doubleheaders). But the damage was done as Union failed to rally and lost 7-3. The Dutclunen looked for revenge in the second of the twin bill. Utica once again jmnped all over Union early and grabbed a 4-0 lead on a Greg Stanek grandslam. The Dut- chmen got on the board in the first by the double of freshman third baseman John Moretti and the run scoring double by Mike Saccocio. Unien then cut the lead to 4-2 as Joe Wood drove in Saccocio from second. Saccocio Continued on page 15 By S.C. Sports Staff The Rugby Club continued in its winning way Saturday in Poughkeepsie as it destroyed the Vassar RFC by a score of 29-- 7. This win, which came on Vassar Parents' Weekend, avenged Vassar's narrow victory which came last fall on Union's Homecoming. Union put itself up on the scoreboard early in the first half when Jody Karlin' scored off a serum-down deep in Vassar's territory. After bringing the ball down the field, the Union scrwn surged itself to gain possession. With this, Karlin proceeded to dive over the goal line for the Garnet Club's first try. The kick-after- try missed, making the score 4-0 in Union's favor. After several minutes of play, Vassar was able to tighten the score momentarily. The home club was given its chance after an obstruction penalty was called on a Union rugger. This allowed Vassar a penalty kick which was made good from just inside the 2S yard line for three points. Then, immediately after the Union squad kicked off, it gained possession as Dave Zaltas caused a fumble and Tony Morgan scooped it up and pitched it out to Brad Nicholson. Nicholson then lost it as he fumbled on the goal. Alertly, Carl Aiken pounced on it and put it down for Union's second try of the day. This time Tom Conway put the kick-after through giving the visitors a 10- 3 advantage. Union then received the kick- off and once again brought it down the field. as its line, which continuously permeated the defense all afternoon, surged for another goal. After a scrwn- doWp, Karlin grabbed hold of the ball and darted toward the goal. His apparent try was called back though because the referee claimed that Karlin had put the ball down before the goal line making it a dead ball. This didn't matter though, as soon the line again brought it down and worked it out to winger Lee Waxman. Waxman bolted down the sideline, dodging several Vassar defensemen. He scored his try which brought the Union team to a 14-3lead. The kick-after was missed. It was Vassar's turn to lift its score. The horne team momentarily got life as it brought the kick-off downfield. After several surges by -its serum, Vassar was able to score its only try of the afternoon. After a perfectly placed kick by the home team's serum-half, the right wing picked it up and was able to nip the corner of the goal just before Dan Logue was able to get his hands on the nimble Vassar lineman. This gave the Vassar squad its total of seven points. Union had another chance to score before the half-time as-4-t quickly brought the ball downfield with the first half running o'!lt of time. After a Vassar penalty, Union was given the opportunity for a penalty kick. This Conway gladly accepted. He then put it . up and split the uprights bringing the score to 17-7 at halftime. Union Ruggers maul Vassar ball carrier The second half belonged to Union as it totally dominated play. The scrwn included Doug Baumgarten, Kevin Taylor, John Tierney, Paul Siletzley, and Jack Donohue. An out- standing game was turned in by Wayne Godlin as the Union serum continuously pushed the Vassar serum back giving the Garnet ruggers the constant advantage. Scoring in- the second half by Brad Nicholson, Eric Sevilli and Joe Cardino ensured a win for the Ruggers as the game ended with the score at 29-7. In the second game, a dif- ferent kind of rugby was played. Sevens was the game as seven players on both sides play seven minute halves. In this game, more running and passing is necessary as this fast-paced game is played. . Again Union dominated as it defeated Vassar by a score of 10-0. Union's first score came as Steve Cole worked the ball through Steve Gross out to Tom Glynn. Glynn then sprinted past . a Vassar defender and half the length of the field for the first try of the game. In the second half it was West Rappaport who passed it out to Don Lippman. Lippman then brought it downfield but had to dump it off as he was tackled. Aaron Schleifer grabbed it and took it in for the second and last try of the game. Bob Waaler converted the extra-point kick giving the Garnet ruggers their 10-0 victory. With their 2-0 record, the Union RFC will face the rugby club of Albany Medical School this Saturday. ... 0 ,.. Ill 1- 1\l <II ..J c: Ill (ll 0 .r: ..... ·a; ::/. ,.. .D 0 0 -a - C. X - Cc ... 0') o- ... .)f. 0 0 .c 1.. ro Q) >- ... 0 I c V!eE Co-· Cor pro Cor Col ~28: ' >- rn Q) .... 1.. ~~. ::J 0 u 0 I .... . ~ . ·~ 0... ' . 1\; RE M; dil M le; ·ea al co el· bE cc pi d( E w L Si c c t1 s1 a E l! d 'I i1 s (] s r ( 1 ( 1 1

it 0 n 0 l. d It :r k lr tii c: ... Q) ..J ·Q) > Q) - IJ) >- .0 0 +- 0 ..c: a. ·a'i 2 . ;>o ro t- Ill (/) ..J . i. s: Ill (I) 0 .r: .... ·a; Y. CXL No. 2l York April 29, 1982 More I Activity Heads· Roll WRUC: Forum Comes Down Hard .l<: 0 0 ..0 I.. ro QJ >- 0 >- Ill QJ .... By LINDA WALLEN ana A. J. BRODSKY Concordiensis learned last VJeek that $300 was taken by the CO-Chairpeople of the Concert Committee for the purchase of promotional albums. Concert Committee Chairpeople Matt Co ben and Val Lenes purchased :$288.53 worth of albums from the Committee's approval upon their pressure, but it only de~lt with expenses and not incomes. Because sources were unable to balance the budget with the . presented: material as well as their inability to account for certain miscellaneous ex- penses, an informal in- vestigation of the Committee's . records began. 5 ~~t·: 0 u .2~·· t· 0 . ..·. t.' \' .: . Matt Coben, ex-Concert Committee Co-chairperson Record Town in the Mohawk Mall on February 19. The $U.47 difference was returned to Mrs. Marra. Concordiensis also learned that Cohen and Lenes each purchased a number of albums for their personal collections with the $300. Only eleven albums appear to have been distributed by WRUC for concert promotion. Confidential sources presented a number of public documents to Concordiensis. Enclosed among these papers was a payment request to Lorraine Marra, Coordinator of Student Activities, from Matt Cohen, dated February 18. Coben received $300 cash from the Concert Committee's student account. Concordiensis also uncovered receipts from Record Town, dated February 19, for the amount of $288.53. Cohen signed the receipt and dated his signature F.ebruary 3. The receipt lists individually all items purchased. Confidential sources, in an attempt to find out what the money had been spent for, called Trans World Music in Albany, the distributors for Record Town. These sources were able to obtain the titles of the tapes and records that Cohen and Lenes purchased. Eleven of the albums were by the performer Jorma Kaukonen. Among the ~ other titles were Tom Petty 1 s \Hard Promises,\ Nick Lowe's ~ \Nick the Knife\ and Henry 10 Mancini's \Pure Gold.\ -g Confidential sources alleged that the money which Cohen and Lenes had used to buy albums had been given to the Concert Committee by the Budweiser Corporation. Also stated was that this money, $1500, was intended for the purpose of advertising the Kinks Concert which took place on January 23, 1982. This ad- vertising was intended to be done through the radio shows of Cohen and Lenes via WRUC. Sources contend that the pur- chase was made on 2-19-82, nearly a month after the con- cert. rn addition, the receipt • was said to have been dated incorrectly by Cohen as 2-3-82. Cohen, upon hearing these accusations, claimed that the $1,500 had been \put into an account not assigned for specific use.\ The money, he claimed, was intended for promotion for the year. The Continued on page .S Sources responsible for this 3 material were prompted to E investigate because, ''the o (Concert) Committee was ] never given any t·eports of a. \\\\\'_ .... By NAOMI 8 .• BLANK and DIANNE PAVACIC On Monday evening, after much discussion, the Student Forum recommended that Jeff Mitchell be brought up on Conduct Committee charges as a direct result of his actions with regard to WRUC. This recommendation was part of the amended version of the ·official report of the Finance Committee regarding the April 20 audit of the radio station. It was passed before a crowd of over 30 students. According to the Executive Board of WRUC, difficulties arose during the transition period from their previous Executive Board to its present one. On April 3, aR \Awesome Band Party\ was supposed to be held: in the Alwnni gyt'H. Acting Dean of Student~ Don Spring cancell~d the party on Friday, April2, for two reasons. Spring said, \It was never determined whether it was Jeff Mitchell's or WRUC's party.\ A discrepancy existed on the facility request forms. The true sponsor of the party was un- clear as inconSistencies were apparent. On March 30, WRUC sublilitted a letter where they stated that they had no responsibility for the party and would only serve in a promotional capacity. According to this doclllllent, Jeff Mitchell was the party's sponsor. OnAprill, a$300 check was made payable to Jeff Mitchell and WRUC's account was debited f()r. the sum. .The Dean was made aware that Jeff Mitchell followed improper procedure in. filing the necessary forms for the party. The forms are to be filled out two weeks prior to the event. As of 4:15 Friday afternoon, the necessary signatures had not been obtained. On Tuesday, April 20, . the Finance Committee audited WRUC's account. The following conclusions were made: \We the Finance Committee, having reviewed all evidence finances.\ Sources said that a report was finally· submitted to Mark Meyers was recently elected to the Student Forum position of Senior Representative. pertaining to· the audit of WRlJC, have come to the following conclusions: 1. We believe that in the in- stances of the radio station conventions and the telephone calls, _,that Jeff Mitchell solely and the Executive Board ex- clusively, acted irresponsibly by overspending line items and making financial decisions contrary to established Finance Committee Policy. 2. We also believe that the Executive Board acted shaiJ.lefully in the preparation of their budget by inflating certain line items so that they might \cross over\ lines with the money and use it for different unauthorized purposes. 3. We believe that WRUC's general fiscal policy of 'if we need it, we'll buy it' (to quote Jeff Mitchell), does not fit in well with established budgeting·, and bureaucratic guidelines for 3b) That an official letter of reprimand be drafted ail.d delivered to the old WRUC Executive Board, for their lack of responsibility in policing the actions of certain members of WRUG. On Wednesday, April 21, WRUC temporarily suspended regular programming until \'all matters involving WRUC and the Union College Student Forum are resolved. We feel that the widespread acceptance of rumors, misinformation, slanderous statements, and general harassment has so . hindered our ability to adequately perform, both as a business organization and an entertainment medium, that temporarily suspending regular programming activities is the best way to impFess upon the 'ea'}lege eommtmity the gravity of the present situation,\ as . ~ Jeff .Mitchell, former General Manager of WRUC an organization. 4. We also believe that in the future any and all purchases made using WRUC monies should automatically become the property of WRUC and should not be used by any other person or organization .for any plll'pOses .. 5. We believe that the pur- chase of the beer awarded as · prizes in the 1982 WRUC trivia ·Contest was purchased with monies from 'inflated' line items, as no money was specifically •allocated for this purpose.\ In light of these obvious abuses and 1.n reflection of our open disgust at WRUC's gross negligence in the use of Student F orwn monies, we believe that it is in the best interests of the Student Forwn and the student body to recommend: 1. The removal of Jeff Mit- chell from any elected WRUC office and to bar him from any official association with the station. 2. The repayment to the Student Activities Account for all personal telephone calls, tabulated to date-Jeff Mitchell $49.68 ~d Rich Beigen $28.50. 3a) That an official letter of reprimand be drafted and delivered -to Jeff Mitchell, of- ficially condemning him for his actions. stated on the broadcast itself. A special Student Forum meeting was held on April22 to determine the whereabout of the unaccountable $300 (used for the Awesome Band Party) and to allow the Executive Board of WRUC to voice their views. Continued on page 2 Peanuts pp. 8 .. 9 letters pp. 1 0-11 Personals p. 13 ... Cl >- (I) ~ E ~ £ 0 .._ 0 ..c: a.

Page 2 00NOORDIEN8f8, April 1),9, 198! Alumni Club CBN-The Alwnni Club will hold a luncheon meeting Wednesday, April 28, on campus. The program will begin at 11:30 a.m. in the Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall. A panel discussion on ad~ missions, academics, and career placement will be held. Guest speakers will be Kenneth A. Nourse, Dean .of Admission and Financial Aid; Professor Alan Nelson, Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies; and Betty Goodman, Director of the Career Center. Luncheon reservations should be made by Monday, April 26, with the Alwnni Office. Author Speaks Rabbi Harold Kushner, author of the best selling book When Bad Things Happen to Good People, will be speaking in SS 016 at 8:00 p.m. on May 20. This lecture is sponsored by J .S.O. Hillel. Smith Awarded Sophomore Tim Smith is one of 105 students to be awarded a 1982 National Truman Scholarship. The announcement was IJ1ade by the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foun- dation. The award is worth an annual maximum of $5000 for the last two years of coll«;!ge and two years of graduate study. It is given to ·outstanding students persuing a career in public service. A total of 956 nominations was received. The scholarships will be presented by the late President's daughter, Margaret Truman Daniel, at a ceremony in Independence Mo. on May 9. Payne Appointed CNB-Delores R. Payne of Woodinville, Wash., has been appoi-nted Administrative Services Coordinator for ASCE Landmark CNB~The Whipple Truss Bridge at Union, an example of the first scientifically designed truss bridge in the United States, has been named a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Civil Engineers. Founded in 1852, the American Society of Civil Engineers is the oldest national engineering society in the country. The bridge at Union, one of several of similar design still existing in New York State, is of a type patented by its engineer- inventor, Squire Whipple, an 1830 Union College alumnus. In designing his bridge, Whipple was the first person to ac- curately analyze the stresses in truss members. His book, A Work on Bridge Building, published in 1847, helped change bridge building from an art to a science. Prior to April, 1979, the ap- proximately 115-year-old bridge spaiUled the Cayadutta Creek in Johnstown, N.Y., one of five Whipple truss bridges known to exist in Eastern New York, and possibly the oldest. At that time, it was an unused pedestrian bridge, although it apparently had once been part of an old mill route. The City of Johnstown donated the bndge to Union in 1979, where it was recon- structed by College civil engineering students. It now ·spans Hans Groot's Kill behi:nd Achilles Rink and serves as a pedestrian walkway. Parent's Weekend Update Attention Union students! Parent's Weekend, May 7, 8 and~, is coming up soon. The Parent's Weekend Committee en- courages each family to take advantage of tbe many activities that are being offered. Tickets are still available for many of the Parent's Weekend events in Carnegie Hall. Student volunteers are needed fon Friday, May 7th and Saturday, May 8th. Anyone willing to spare a few hours of their time to assist in the weekend activities should contact Jane Wood at either 6176 or 6043. Also, the committee asks the campus coinmunity to please / note the following schedule changes: · Friday, May 7th ADD: Student Produced Play, \Student B()dies\ in the Nott Memorial at 8 p.m. Saturday, May 8th ADD: Parent's Committee Meeting in the Banquet Room at 10 a.m. CHANGE: Frisbee Club Exhibition at Alexander Field to 1: 30 p.m. Benefit Bar~B-Q Lunch at Chester Artllur Statue to 12 noon. DELETE: Student Produced Play at 3 p.m. Sunday, May 9th DELETE: Student Produced Play at 1:34l p.m. loolc for the SPECIAL ADVERTISERS SECTION in Next Week's PARENT'S. WEEKEND Concordiensis Union's computer services. Her appointment wa\' announced by Wayne E. Ho1t, Director of Computer Services. Payne joins the staff W:ith senior level experience in computer .systems design ·~ both education and industry. Her most recent position was that of data base administrator for the ENI Companies, the 17th largest oil and gas exploration firm in the country. In her position at Union, Payne will be the primary liaison for all administrative projects, helping to design new systems and analyze existing programs. Symposium Scheduled CNB~Since the 1950s, Japanese productivity has grown at a rate substantially higher than that .of other e,conom ic ally advanced countries. The sources of Japanese productivity and the adaptability of Japanese methods to American industry will be examined in a Union symposium titled ''Japanese Productivity: Lessons for America?\ The public is welcome to attend. The symposium, swnsored by the Social Sciences Division in cooperation with the Schenectady ({ounty. Chamber of Commerce, will be held OI'\ campus Friday, April 30, and Satprday, ~Y 1. Featured speakers will be represen- tatives of education, industry, and labor, including Ezra F. Vogel, director of the program on U.S.-Japanese relations at Harvard Univen:;ity and author of Japan as No. l:: Lessons for America·. Vogel w;ill open the .program at 3:30 p.m. Friday, April 30, with an address titled \Challenge from Japan.\ At 7:30 p.m. that evening, Val Feigenbaum, president of General Systems Co., Inc., an intet:national engineering corporation, will discuss \America and Japan: Business Strategy. for World Market Leadership.'' Cad Pegels, chairman of the Management Systems Forum Comes Down Hard The radio station told the Forum that the $300 was used to pay for a sound man for the band party. Apparently, the contractor demanded advanced payment in full, because WRUC had cancelled events on him in the past. An additional $100 was for security (Schenectady Police) purposes for the party. WRUC asked the Forum if they could hold a cabaret Tuesday, May 4, to raise the funds needed to pay back the Student Activities Account. They would use the ten free kegs they received from a beer- distributor during their recent Trivia contest for the cabaret. The Forum voted to allow WRUC to hold the cabaret with certain restrictions. 1 1) That Jeff Mitchell postdate a check for May 5 for $400. 2) That each keg be assigned a value of $11 and for each keg used at cabaret, Jeff Mitchell will pay $11 to the Student Activities Account and any 'remaining kegs will be used at Department of the School of Management at StJNV Buffalo,. will speak on ''The Japanese Management Challenge'' at 9:15 a.m. Saturday, May 1. He will be followed by Takeshi lsayama, deputy special representative of Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry, who will discuss \Japanese Government-Bus- iness Relations.'' The final addresses will begin at 11 a.m. Saturday. General Electric executive Robert E. Sessions will discuss \Lessons for American Management,\ aod \Perspectives from American Labor\ will be presented by Edward Gray, ditector of Region' 9 of the United Auto Workers. All talks wiU be held at Union in the Social Sciences auditorium (room 016). A buffet supper will be held Friday, April30, in Old Chapel. The cost is $10 per person, and reser- vations must have been made by Thursday, April22. Dinner reservati<>ns should be made with Professor Jim. Love in the Economics Department. For more information on the symposiwn, contact Professor John Tomer in the Institute of Ad m in i s t r a t i o n an d Management. Continued from page 1 . Camp Union. 3) The first $400 made will be returned to Jeff Mitchell. - As of this past Monday's meeting, Jeff Mitchell had not given the check to the Student Forum. Arrangements were made for Mitchell to give the check to Vice-President of Finance, Pete McCafferey immediately following the meeting: Upon receipt of this payment, Mitchell's debt will be ~I eared. Housing Lottery 1982-1983 Co-op interest meeting--,Apr. 29, 7 p.m., Fox Lounge. All members of your co-op should be present. Distribution of lotteey numbers-May 11: 6-8 p.m., Seniors-stage II; 6-8 p.m., Juniors-Davidson Lounge; 6-9 p.m., Sophomores-Fox Lounge. MUST HAVE YOUR ID. Co-op Lottery-May 12, 7 p.m., Fox Lounge. Announcement of selected groups. Bring ID, Lottery Cards. All members of co-op must be present. Singles Lottery-May 13,6:30 p.m., Stage II ..Carnegie. Bring ID, Lottery card. SeniorLCJttery.(Doubles & Suites)-May 18,6:30 p.m., Stage II-Camegie. Bring ID, Lottery card. All roommates must be present. . . · · Junior Lottery (Doubles & Sultes)-May 20, 6:30 p.m., Stage II-Carnegie. Bring ID, Lottery card. All roommates must be present. . . . . · · Sophomore Lottery (Doubles &.Suites)-May 25,6:30 p.m., Stage IT-Carnegie. Bring ID, Lottery card. All roommates must be present. . · · NOTE: Stage II is located next to the Game Room on 3rd floor of Carnegie Hall. REMEMBER ..• -You must have your I. D. and lottery card when choosing a room. -The class member present with the lowest lottery number will have first pick. -The class member with the next lowest lottery number, and present, will follow. -All roommates MUST BE PRESENT AND SIGN CONTRACTS when the room or suite is chosen. -Two people may claini one half of a suite. . -Alloccupants of a room or suite who are found to have cheated will lose any rights to the room or suite. Additionally, the person(s) who cheated Will be fined $100. l: ] inter Co be the Co be Recc of b the . CobE banr Jorr ptov . pro!l BE take res( pro~ sour Dea Apr: indi: Spri not He mor sbo Tur Pre L adv resi Len resi 2a. sai< rna Cot mil me $22: mi1 Spx pai ino I wh sid COl sh1 me bu: po: be

\l:JONOORDIENS1S: ,.April !9, 198i R . . . esignations • • • Continued from page 1 . intended give-away, said . Coben, nad ''nothing to do with- the Kinks, nothing at all.\ Coben said that they had gone to Record Town With the intention of buying records to promote the Jorma Kaukonen Concert. Coben added that Budweiser banners were hung during the Jorma Kau•konen Concert, proving that Budweiser was a .. promoter. Before official action was taken by the administration in response to information provided by ·confidential sources, Lenes came to Acting Dean of Students Don Spring on April 19. She confessed her indis.cretion. Lenes stated that Spring claimed the issue was not under his jurisdiction. He recommended tha,t the money be paid back and she should approach Weldon Turner, Student Forum President. Lenes spoke to Turner, woo advised that she and Coben resign from the Cotrunjttee. Lenes submitted her letter of resignation to Turner en April 23. Lenes claims that Turner said \as far as they know that matter would be forgotten.\ Cohen did not resign officially until this past Monday's Forum meeting on April26. A check for $228.44 was previousLy sub- mitted by Cohen to Dean Spring. Lenes claims to have paid Cohen her share of the money. Lenes, in an attempt to clarify what happened, relayed her side of the incident to Con- cordiensis. Lenes claims that she and Cohen withdrew the money with the intention of buying as many albums as possible with the $?00, strictly t!J be use~. ~o·r J?I'omotional us~. • Upon reaching Record Town, Lenes contended that there were only eleven Jorma Kaukonen albums in the store. She stated that at that point it was mutually decided that each would purchase personal albwns with the remaining money. Lenes claims that each purchased 18 albums. She claims that \tour actions were not premeditated.'' Lenesadded that ''I just think it was very tempting, I can't justify it - at the time it looked too good.\ Lenes apparently recognizes that . her actions were wrong. Lenes also claims to have taken the previous steps toward retribution. She made general comments regarding how money was distributed to student organizations, saying \money is tao easily gotten; they don't check up on whether receipts are returned or not.'' In concluding the interview, Lenes stressed that \both Matt and I were equally involved.\ Coben · concurred with the general' chranology and ac- . curacy of Lenes' account. He made one criticism of Lenes' statement. Coben claims that each received less than 18 albums. When asked why his resignation was one week _later than Lenes', Coben stated that he had ''no reason\ for his actions. Lenes formally apologized to the Concert Committee for 'her actions. Coben has made no advances to this effect. This is because of Coben's feeling that he was \betrayed\ by the confidential sources. He felt that they should \have the decency to come to us.\ In response to the allegations made by the unnamed sources, ·coben disagreed with several ~ . . . ' . ' . ~ . . points. On the question of the financial statement, Cohen· stated that it was neces$ary to wait for Mrs. Marra to receive the check from the Conununity Box OffiCe for the Kinks Con- cert beforemaking a statement. He states that this was not received until March. In reference to the ac- cusations that the miscellaneous items on the report were unjustHied, Coben claimed it was not necessary to itemize things. He added that \it wasn't to hi!i,e anything, it was for the sake of ease to the group.\ In response to the discrepancy between dates on ~he receipt, Coben claims to have made an error. Cohen states that he intended to pUt March 3rd and. not February. Concordiensis questioned Coben as· to why cash was requested and not a check. He states, \I did not know that there were checks,. and I assumed that cash was needed.\ Co ben had previously been chairman ofthe Film Committee and a member of -the Fitzhugh Ludlow and Social Committees. Coben stated that he was \not ashamed or pissed-off at getting caught.\ He claims that he knew all along that this was a possibility. · With information supplied by the confidential sources, Goncordlensis approached Sophomore Representative Jared Squires. Concordiensis was asked to act as an initiator of action against Lenes and Coben to protect the identies of our confidential sources. Concordiensis instead turned over all materials to Squires so that a proposal could be for- mUlate·d.: · . Included in the proposal was a ' . recommendation by the Forum tbat charges should be initiated before the Conduct Committee agailist the former Chairpeople. In order for the Forum to act on tbe proposal that evening, it W()uld have been necessary to make a motion to waive the Ctmstitution regulations on the matter, as the Forum did only Uree weeks earlier in a previous situation. - Before Squires could move on Ute matter at the Forum meeting, the topic was br-eached- by other members pl.\'esent. Proposals were stated by members ranging from postponing the issue to waiving tile Constitution so as to act. Squires' intended proposal was lost in the discussion. Senior Trustee Will Lloyd demanded tb.at the Constitution rule on proposals be applied verbatim. Con~ordiensis, from the floor, reminded the Forum members that they had set precedent only three weeks earlier by waiving the Constitution in the case of another important proposal_ . Student Forum President rurner discouraged voting on the proposals then on the floor, which resulted in additional confusion. Turner's contention was that Coben and Lenes· should be present at the time a proposal was submitted. Turner then took the matter into his O\Wll hands, apparently in direct violation of the Constitution's rules regarding the voting on proposals and motions. Turner dismissed discussion stating that the matter would be placed on the agenda for next week's meeting. No Forum members ,questioned this· action by the President. This Desk-Can Beach Mach Z- Navy Officers Get B.esponsibilityfast. Page 8 College Notes· (fro01 the Chronicle of Higher Education) This week's Chronicle of Higher Education reported that officials at Harvard University are planning to strip many ef the institutions walls of the very . characteristic that earned Harvard, as well as seven other institutions, their identity as \Ivy League\ schools. . Harvard:officials said that the vines are damaging the JJuilding's brick and mortar. The removal of the ivy from 13 undergraduate dormitories is part of a multimillion-dollar renovation project that the s-chool is undertaking. Lawrence Joyce, Harvard's director of Buildings and Grounds, reported that the university spends $50,000 each year to keep the ivy trimmed. The dorm walls will be coated with a moisture-proofing compound. In a most bizarre and unlikely twist of fate, the University of Alabama School of Medicine removed a cadaver from an anatomy class when one of the students reported that it was the body of her great aunt. The body, although not the one that the student was .working on, was later con- finned to be, in fact, the student's great aWlt. Although questioned, the odds of such an occurrence happening again could not be determined. ·'

Page 4: CONCORDIENSIS, April !9, J98! 'Egypt Elucidated Arts Buildin&: Re.novation By MARCY BURSTINER Staff On Monday, Arril26, Prof. P. J. Vatikiotis came ~o Union College to give a lecture on the current state of the Middle East after the recent assasination of Anwar· Sadat. Vatikiotis, who teaches at the Dept., of African and Oriental Studies of the University of London, is generally acknowledged as one of the world's foremost authorities on Mid-East affairs. In his opening statement, Vatikiotis remarked, \I come witlr neither a formula for salvation or redemption nor one of condemnation.\ He ex- plained that he does not feel that politics has the answer to the problems in the Mid-East nor does he feel Wlcomfortable with the absence of any real solutions. Speaking mainly about newly elected President Mubarak, Vitikiotis explained that the main question everyone now asks is how much of Sadat's policy will his successor be able to retain. Mubarak has tried to assure everyone that peace could continue even though Sadat was no longer there. Sadat had his faults, Vatikiotis explained. For the most part, he conducted policy in a highly personal style, too closely identified with U.S. foreign policy. Those in Egypt and the Arab world claim that he had \sinned against-a community of the faithful\. While commenting that in- stability will characterize the Middle East for the next few years, Vitikiotis described Mubarak's actions as showing enough authority to conduct policy effectively. In his first six months as President, Vitikiotis contend£ that Mubarak has dealt sufficiently with ·domestic and foreign problems. He was forced to show himself as a legitimate and popular president while emphasizing the urgent need to deal with Egypt's severe economic problems. Such problems in· elude the 30-35 percent inflation rate and the unequal distribution of wealth. At the same time, Vitikiotis stresses that Mubarak must restore relations with the Arab states. The professor assured ·the audience that suppositions about Egypt automatically l'eturning to normal relations with the Arab world and the idea that friendly relations with the PLO are the norm are all unfounded. Egypt's relation with the Arab states will be defined according to Egyptian economic and security in· terests. Its most important interest at the moment is \No War With Israel\. Egypt is committed to carrying out the peace treaty with its neighbor. Votikiotis went on to say that the major obstacle to peace in the Middle East is the general militant climate there. The disarray of the Arab world has in the past and continues to attract Superpower rivalry. The · Soviet Union considers Egypt the pivotal center of the Arab world. As a result of the fall of the Shah in Iran, the U.S. is searching for military bases in the region. \You now have a military presence in .the Middle East\ Votikiotis stated, \thirteen hundred troops IS thirteen hundred troops! \ He further explained that Israel's attitude poses ad· ditional problems. \There are those who sense a parallel militancy in Israel\ Vitikiotis commented. The extremist religious and political movements and the militancy over the West Bank constitute a danger to the integrity of the state. Israel's determination for a thtlroughly Jewish population on the West Bank also threatens the peace treaty; promotes a sectaJ;~an war, and kindles minority dissatisfaction. \Unfortunately many Israelis do not view the treaty as a means to a stable and continued peace, but view it instead ·as a means to neturalizing their foremost rival.\ The following article has been printed with the oermission of College PubUc Relations. Renovation work will start this spring on the 130-year-old Arts Building. Construction will be done in phas~s and is dependent upon funding. The College has ap- propriated $250,000 from its Kruesi Fund and Is seeking the remaining $400,000 of the project's cost. The Arts Building, part of the original Ramee plan for the campus, }}as also been known as Philosophical ·Hall and the Physics Laboratory. At one point, it held the first analytical chemistry laboratory in the country. In announcing the renovation, President Morris said, \By having a recognized and revitalized home at the heart of the campus, . the College com- munity will honor the arts as never before in this century. By occupying an attractive and inviting buil<.ljng, the program's contributions to the cUltural life of the College will be enhan- · ced.\ Until 1972, the arts faculty was scattered in various locations. With the completion of the Science and Engineering Center, the arts faculty was united in the, building vacated by the Physics Department. rooms suitable for both com- position and performance, the building lacked space for a gallery for major exhibitions, a forum for displaying student work and. for accommodating faculty and student critiques, and a mUlti-purpose facility for dance and improvisation. The renovation, work i'S designed to rectify those shortcomings. At the core of the remodeled building would be a performing arts center, which would serve as the home for dance, im- provisation, and acting classes, and as a center for visiting teacher-performers, such as the ·Jose Limon Dance Company, which was in residence in 1981. Adjacent would. be a student forum, where there would be . rapidly changing exhibitions from student work in sculpture, painting, drawing, and photography. The .forum would also serve as the forecourt for a College · Art Gallery, which would display the Union art collection as well as loan exhibitions: Seie·ction Ahead \In the final analysis, \ Votikiotis remarked, ''people should not get too distressed if things do not happen exactly as some 'experts', like myself, say it should happen . . . I tell you it's a crazy part of the world.\ While the arts have benefited from having a single home, the building has imposed several limitations. In addition to a basic need for The Arts Department has eight full-time and six: adjunct faculty members who teach nearly sixty courses. Each year · nearly one student in three· takes an art course and the department estimates that about seventy-five percent of all students take either a formal course or participate in arts· related extracurricular ac- tivities during their four years here. · By DOUG LANDON Staff All six candidates for the position of . Dean of Students have now had the opportunity to visit campus and meet with the Dean Search Committee, along with faculty and students. At this point, the Committee must begin in-depth discussion to select the best qualified can- didate, according to Shaeffer Library's Miss Ruth Ann Evans. Miss Evans serves as a Committee member and Chairperson of the Student Affairs Council. The sixth finalist, Dr. Susan Bolman, spent last Thursday and Friday at Union. She met with the Search Committee, President Morris, Vice President D'Andrea, existing Deans and the Student Affairs staff. The same process · had , previously taken place for the other five candidates, Dr. Charles Love, Joseph L. Mammola, Dr. Robert Massa, Dr. Karl Lewis Schilling, and Donald E. Spring. Miss Evans pointed out that the Search Committee· mem- bers have read the feedback forms whiCh were submitted to them. Anyone still wishing to file a similar form may obtain it from any member. The Com- mittee includes Dr. Rudy Nydegger, Chairman, Miss Evans, Dr. Thomas Dowling, Professors Edward Craig and Bruce Reynolds, Dr. Margaret Schadler, Affirmative Action Officer, and students Brian Marks, Marla Shore, Marabeth Soltis and Weldon Turner. Please Come and See DANCE CLUB perform on PARENT'S WEE·KEND .. Saturday, May 8th , at 3:30 .. 4:30 in Memorial Chapel FREEU - The Social Committee Pre~ents ROLLERSKATING May 13th 12-4 pm To be performed May 20-22 & May 27-29 Tickefs will go on sale one week before opening night Wednesday, May 12 MARTIN BENJAMIN will show photographs taken by Union students from 1980 .. present 7:30 pm, Banquet Room Carnegie Refreshments will be served. Please ioi n us. Sponsored by the Union College Photo Club @ 1965 United Feature S.yndicate, Inc. WA After haggl appr edUCl 1982. Thl start fisca fWld 1982 Co1 1982, post! Th Arne calle mile the I also· cut f bud~ Of pro~ fede pro~ fun( \sp bud, The con: ratt A und was get mil Tw~ fun, T les: Roi 198: in l c the tim out pa! keE unt de( thl: I Pr' A an1 an \G we pe( 350 pa1 nal po nu

CONCORDIENSIS, A.priZ $9, 198~ Page 5 Congress O.K.-'s '82 Budget Cuts WASHINGTON, 'D.C. (CPS)- After more tllan a year of haggling, Congress has finally approved a federal higher education budget for fiscal year 1982. The House and Semite are just starting committee work for the fiscal1983 budget, which would fund programs from October 1, . 1982 through Sept. 30, 1983. Congress' final budget for 1982 devotes abrmt$5.5 billi0n to postsecondary ·education. Though Bob Aaron of the American Cou.ncil of Educatign called the final budget ''the first milestone •for Congress to block the President on education,\ it also· represents an is percent cut from the 1981 federal college budget. made his proposals for the 1983 fiscal year. The President proposes en- ding 16 of the 30 federal college proposals, and cutting the total postsecondary education budget to $4.5· billion, another 17 percent drop from the 1982 budget Congress just approved. Financial Aid Update From ROBERT J. MASSA Director of Financial Aid The Reagan Administration continu~s to .press for drastic cuts in student financial aid. The President claims that the American public has been misled and that his ad- ministration is not cutting .financial aid. This is an amazing statement from a leader whose current Budget Director has proposed a 33 percent overall reduction in student aid for 1983-84! The Administration is worried that they wtll be unable to sell this budget to the Congress with good reason- their fiscal 1982 budget for financial aid was vejected on March 31, 1982, by abi,partisan coalition of Congressmen who listened to their vocal con- situents. We must C()ntinue to apply this ,pressure! Everyone will be affected directly or indirectly by these proposals. Those with little or no financial aid will feel the effects in two ways: 1) with institutions having to devote more of their own resources to the neediest students, there will be little or no institutional money for those who require a small amount of assistance; and 2) private colleges will have to increase their costs even more to compensate partially for decreased federal assistance. Of course, those who depend on financial aid now will feel the effects immediately and dramatically. Highlights of what is likely to happen are as. follows: Guaranteed Student Loans: proposals include a 10 percent origination fee, requiring stadents to pay the 9 percent interest on the loan while in college and charging market interest rates after the com- pletion of studies, strict income cutoffs for eligiblity, prevent graduate students from borrowing and forcing them to negotiate a more expensive (14 percent) loan. Pell (Basic) Grant: request for a 40 percent cut with the result being a reduction or ter- mination of award for eligible students; this translates to about 175 Union students. Supplemental Grants (SEOG): a 27 percent cut for 1982-83, while asking for the elimination of SEOG funds. This means that 200 Union students would receive an average of $600 less in aid for 1983-84. College Work Study: A 30 per- cent cut in funding is proposed. Union has alr~ady suffered a 26 percent cut in CWS for 1982-83. In order to keep students working, Union Will likely have to devote more of its financial aid funds to its job program. Letter writing has proven effective. We won round I, now we need to fight for 1983-84. The financial aid office· will be providing sample letters and the addresses of the appropriate politicians . that should be contacted. Financial aid cuts affect all of higher education. Your opinion can be heard through letters to your congressmen and senators. Contact the financial aid office if you have any questions. Of the 30-sorne postsecondary programs administered by the federal government, only one-a program to pr(lvide institutional funds for meeting discretionary \special needs\ :--enjo·yed a budget hike over 1981 levels. The increase of 3.7 percent was considerably below the inflation rate. Protest \Roar\ Succeeds Aid to land-grant colleges under the second Morrill Act was the only federal program to get the same amount--$2.a million-for 1982 as it got in 1981. · Two federal programs were not funded at all. The cuts, however, were faL less drastic than Pres·ident Ronald Reagan proposed in his 1982 budget proposal, delivered in February 1981. Congress could not agree on the Reagan .proposals by the time the fiscal 1981 budget ran out in September. Legislators passed an emergency budget to keep federa1 programs alive until they C<J.Uld make a final decision on the budget, which thhey finally did April 1, 198~. In the rne<~ntime, of course, President Reagan had already Anti~Nuclear Activities Anti-nuclear demonstrations and teach-ins were staged around the country during \Ground Zero\ activities last week. An estimated 15 million people in 650 communities and 350 colleges and universities participated in the week long nationwide discussions on the possibility and effects ()f nuclear war. (CPS)--\Where last year there was protest, this year there's a roar,\ says an aide to Rep. Peter Peyser {D-NY). He was reflecting in the af- termath of the influx of some 7000 college students into Washington on March 1 to C()rner representatives and senators about the $1.9 billion President Reagan wants cut from. fe(,ieral student aid programs.· ·The rally-dubbed National Student Action Day by its sponsors-seems to be just the Up of a vast nationwide response to the proposed cuts. As many as 75 percent of the nation's colleges may be par- ticipating in the fight against the cuts, according to one estimate. Peyser might have more reason than others to sigh at the outpouring. Peyser created and organized an ambitious radio, newspaper and phone campaign to stir up resistance last March to President Reagan's proposals to slash student aid budgets for 1982-83. By mid-March, his office had received a paltry 75 letters. 'l'he congressman had dreamed of collecting 10,000 letters about the cuts. Students, he said last spring, \are going to wake up in May and find out they may not be going to school at all~ They're going to be hurt.\ Many seemed to have taken Peyser's warnings more seriously this year, when the rresident hopes to c.ut the budget even more radically by cutting grad students off from Guaranteed Student Loans, ending National Defense Student Loans, barring students from .families making more than $14 1 000 from getting Pell Grants, decreasing the maximum Pell Grant, ending State Student Incentive Grants, and severely curtailing other student aid programs. In contrast to the 1000 students who showed up to lobby last year, 7000 lobbied this year. Two dl!~ after that, 250 Pennsylvama students returned to lobby some more. A Tufts law professor has organized a national phone-a- thon by students in Massachusetts, Florida, Texas, Nebraska, California and Maine, among other states. A similar campaign is planned for New York. Student governments and financial aid officers have staged letter-writing cam- paigns at UCLA, Southern Cal, Colorado State, Marquette, Iowa, Northwestern, Penn State, and Northeastern, as well as here at Union. There have also been freelance efforts. University of New Mexico President Dr. William Davis, for example, recently wrote the members of his congressional delegation a letter containing thumbnail sketches of 11 UNM students who would have to leave school if the cuts were approved. \If they gave out Pulitzer Prizes for letters to congressmen,\ says Bob Aaron of fhe American Council on Education (ACE) and an organizer of anti-cut lobbying this year, \that one would have gotten it.\ Appeals to parents, letter- writing campaigns, the phone calls to alumni and other ac- tivities extend to \perhaps 70 to 75 percent\ of the nation's campuses, Aaron estimates. The messages are usually the same. University of California system President David Saxon predicts t}Je cuts would have a \catastrophic effect\ on colleges. Yale President A. Bartlett Giamatti foresees \devastation.\ As many as five million students would be affected by the cuts during the 1983-84 academic year, with as many as 1.5 million being forced from school, the ACE predicts. . . There is. some indication all the uproar is working. Even conservative Republicans like John Ashbrook of Ohio anr Alphonse D' Amato of New Vorl. now pledge to vote against the cuts. When cornered by a squad of students at the Capitol during National Student Action Day, D' Amato said, \Although I'm in basic agreement with the overall policy progr.am of the president, I do not believe that this nation can afford further reductions in aid to higher · education. I will actively oppose the proposed cuts.\ The day-sponsored by the U.S. Student Association, the Coalition of Independent College & University Students, the Progressive Student Net- work, the Southern Student Activists' Network, the Young Democrats, the Student National Education· AsSQciation, the Americans for Democratic Action Youth Caucus and the AFL-CIO's Frontlash-began with students outside holding signs like \We Need Brains, Not Arms,\ \Rememb~r Sputnik,\ and \Support Higher Education.\ Speakers at the gathering promised more lobbying to come. Americans for Democratic Action Youth Caucus Director Charlie King warns students will actively work against \those candidates who favor the Reagan budget cuts in higher education\ in the fall. She wanted to avoid the image of \rich kids crying wolf,\ she told the Harvard Crimson. \There is a whole genre of schools that kind of shy away from aggressive lobbying,\ Aaron observes, though not necessarily about Harvard. \We had one school who told us, 'Okay, we'll write a letter, but we'll only use plain bond paper. No stationary with our name on it.\' Aaron says some fear reprisals if they lobby too vigorously. One \parent called us and said she was against the cuts, but she didn't want to sign her name because she's on Social Security, and she's afraid her benefits will get cut off.\ Aaron replies that lobbying \is perfectly legal and proper.\ Non-profit institutions can use up to ten percent of their budgets to lobby and still be within the law's boundaries. \ .~ '

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, April 29, 1982 • > '' ' ' ', • I .-< < • > o . . . . ' ., ' ' . . ' ' . . . features Follou~ Up_: Girsdansky Diet Paul Girsdansky exercises strenuously in order to surpass the halfway point of his quest to see his ribs. By PAUL G lRSDANSK Y The nobly born must nobly meet his fate. -Euripedes; c.425 b.c. At this writing, I am at the halfway point of my quest to see my ribs. On the diet front, things were generally positive, except for a pig-out Saturday night, where I found myself eagerly kissing an incredible stuffed pepper and spaghetti dinner. tually some tasty diet dishes. This is a special creation from the kitchen of Chez Girsdanskyz Mother and Child Reunion Four eggs One can of chicken, 6 oz. Two fresh green peppers, cut 1 tablespoon margarine 1 dash cinnamon Scramble eggs, using fork or power drill. Gently pour into frying pan which is oiled with the margarine. Drain chicken and add to eggs. Add peppers. Cook. Add cinnamon. You Wanna' Be A Doctor? As of this writing Tuesday afterno_on, I have over three dollars per pound in pledges and seventeen po\Ulds shed, a loss of six pounds since last week. Over the course of the diet, I've found that there are ac- Presto glorioso! A fanstastic dinner, which will gross out your friends and satisfy your stomach .for only 650 calories. Eat it. ~y R.T. FIREFLY So, you wanna' be a doctor? That's nice. Doesn't it irk you when the unenlightened ask, \Why?\ The obvious answer is that, \I like the Sciences and I want to work with people-it's a logical mix.\ But have any o( the enlightened ask, \Do you know what you're getting into?\ Dr. Roth knows what it's all about, but he also knows that, coming from him, a description of the road up ahead won't be taken seriously. So, why not take it from someone who graduated just a few years ago? Sit back, get high, put some Dead on the stereo, and read on. Or turn the page. You see, you won't have a hell of a lot of time to enjoy the Dead in Med School. Or to keep up with current music, movies, literature or even current events. So do it now. Let's start with Med School didactic-the first two years. There's nothing phenomenally exciting about it-or glamorous, for that matter. When . you arrive you meet your classmates, reading lists, professors, and cadavers (the latter two are occasionally interchangeable). The work isn't intellectually challenging, just never-ending memory games where you spit back bland facts. At times you can't figure out where to start, or if there's actually any beginning at all. No more Sound and Music or St-ereo T.V. and Electronics (late Seventies Guts). So, as you wade through zwitterions, the Poiseulle equation, penicillin- resistant Staph, and cadaveric bowels, you may start to question yourself, \Why?\ \.Oh yeah, that stuff about science and people-that's the reason.\ Meanwhile, people everywhere know that you're a first year student because you can't quite scr11b off the smell of the Anatomy lab. \It's my new cologne--Price Chopper's generic scent.\ But you do take occasional weekends off and go to a party or two. \Feels good- sort of like having fun used to feel-but a little more subdued. I wonder why?\ · So, you make it to second year and start Pathology and Pharmacology. You can juggle books like Morrison and Boyd and Leninger by this time, and yo11 wonder why they were once so difficult, but studying that damned Pharm is like memorizing the Manhattan phone book-just in case you sh()uld want to call someone. \Lots of sciences here, but where are the people? Getting tir~d of sitting in the same classroom 8 hours a day.\ People ask you, \What kind of doctor do you want to be?\ What kind of what? You mean I'm gonna' be a doctor after all this? \I really don't know-so far I'm just a glorified college student.\ · Third year rolls around. It's finally time to get into the hospitals for some clinical hands-on experience. Armed, now, with two years of semi- worthless knowledge about tyrosine hydroxylase and the 1 ;alea Aponeurotica, you begm ·'our three month clerkship in Medicine. You're assigned to a :oedical team and a specific intern, who prayed the night before, ·'Please, God, send me a 'Iledical student who only in- . reases my work load by a ·tactor of two.\ You see, you know nothing about clinical ·medicine (even though you're a third year student) and everything must be explained to you, from starting an I. V. to doing a lunibar plllicture. By the end of the first week you feel about as useful as a third testicle, but you stick with it, even though you had no idea you'd be on call every third- night. That means no going home and little-to-no sleep. It means drawing blood at 2 A.M., doing EKGs on infarcting patients at 5 A.M., and starting rounds again for the next day at 7:30. By the time 12 weeks have gone by you're not as helpless, but yo11've come to the realization that you're gortna' be on call like this all year, some of fourth year, and throughout your 3-5 year R~sidency. And don't kid yourself--it's absolutely exhausting. When do you study? During the nights not on call, of course. When do you live? Good question. Seriously. Six weeks of Obstetrics come next, and again you begin as a clinical imbecile, and when you get that straight you do the same on Surgery. The chain remains unbroken. Students, of course, don't do any surgery, and can't really expect to, but you do get to hold retractors for eight hours at a stretch, with the chief surgeon calling you a sonofabitch every time he slips. Meanwhile, the interns are introducing you to hospital jargon back on the floors-- undesireable patients are either dirtballs, GOMERS (Get Out of My Emergency Room) or SH- POSs (Sub Human Piece Of Shit). NiCe, eh? And you thought you were in this to show compassion and help people? \Been to any parties lately?\ Yeah, one or two,\ \What did you notice?'' \Well if it's a party . with Medical people, all they know how to do is talk medicine, and if it's with non-medical people, Circle K: all I can do is talk medicine.\ The system breeds this-you work long hours and study on your free time. It's hard to fight, and seems to persist throughout internship and residency. Not Just A Club The residency training program is. a very difficult, often frustrating 3-5 years. An intern is a medical student once removed, with the added disadvantage that, when the 1ntern is the butt of excessive physical and mental abuse, he can't just walk out and say, \So flunk me.\ He's ultimately responsible for the day-tcrday care of patients-and he looks it. The further one advances in the system, the less abuse he gets,- but the on call schedule is eternal, as are hassles with power hungry head nurses. What's the point of all this? Have these been the idle musings of a depraved Union alumnus with poor sentence structure~ or a cynical view of things that don't usually get told? Hopefully, the latter. Med school does have some rewarding aspects, like when your clinic patient says, \Doc what's your name again? I'd like you to be my clinic doctor from now on.\ That actually happens-and you cling to those moments with all your might, because you know that's what it's all about. But they come so damned infrequently that the constant grind of school and the upcoming residency weigh heavily on your brain. It's a long seven to ten years, think about it first. Most people don't. By KATHI ZUCKERMAN How many times have you walked by a sign which read, \ This event is sponsored by the Union College Circle K Club\ and said to a friend, \Oh yeah, Circle K-Of course I know what it is!\. Then later you thought, What the heck is Cir~le K? Vou really didn't believe Beth when she said it could be a new cereal, or Michael when he told you that he thought· it was that new dude ranch everyone was talking about. I ·too, thought the same thing until I got up the nerve to walk into Fox Lounge at 6:30 one Wednesday evening and decipher the mystery for myself. Upon walking into the room, I found a gro11p of friendly people who greeted me with a warm reception. I soon found out that Circle K was not a new math symbol or a new sorority, but a serv.ice organization devoted Jo aiding the campus, local cqmrnunities and national organizations. Remember the roses or carnations you ordered in Carnegie Hall on Valentine's Day to send to that special someone? That sale was sponsered by The Union College Circle K Club. Or remember Anyone Wishing to be an USHER at GRADUATION please sign up in the Student Affairs Office as soon as possible that dance you may have wandered into in January, one Saturday night, in the Alwnni Gym? Well what you en- countered was a Circle K Dance Marathon which raised over $1500 to aid the Muscular Dystrophy Association. That box of munchies you received freshmen year, from mom and dad to provide relief for the fall finals trauma was sponsored by the Union College Circle K Club. The money went to many local organizations, including a family of a Schnectady man awaiting a heart-lung tran- splant for their son in California. As a· member, I went to parties for the elderly, children's home outings, and even worked a booth at a local carnival, by the Kiwanis Club of Schenectady, to aid the needy children of Schenectady. Besid~s helping others, I met lots of new people and had a great time. This past year, The Union College Circle !): Club won state honors at a N.Y. District Circle K Convention, held in Albany. The most noteworthy 'award won was one fot total achievement. So if you want to find out for yourself what the Union College Circle K Club is all about, want to meet new people, help others and have a good time in the process, Make sure you stop by Fox Lounge at 6:30 p.m. on Wednesday evenings. You just may be surprised at what you'll find. And don't think you can't get involved, even now! ! I started out with the same unawareness and nervousness that you have, the same doubt, and I made my place in Circle K. After all, if you can't believe the president, who can you believe? Only 50 Days Until Graduation! I Li J I co gr ro gr \( J< 0 SE Cl SE al ir a: Sl g rl d s g t t J (

I • CONOORDIENSIS, April 19, 1981 Page 7 features Liberal Arts Majors: Job Opportunities CNB-With engineering and computer science graduates in great demand today, ~ there room for the liberal arts major? To help prospective Union graduates answer the question, \Can Liberal Arts Majors Get Jobs Too?\ the College Career Center recently held one of a series of workshops to discuss career opportunities and job search strategies for libera1 arts majors. The participants included recent Union liberal arts graduates employed in such diverse fields as business, government, and public relations. Dagastine arranged an in- ternship at an area weekly newspaper, though he had no previous journalism ex- perience. That led to a full-time reporting job after graduation, and he has been In his current position since last ·August. \I firmly believe in the idea of a .broad, general education,\ Dagastine says. \If I had to do ,jt again, I would major in the liberal arts, with some courses in business and-or management, as well.\ \Liberal arts majors usually don't command the high starting salaries that technical graduates do, and they may have to start at the bottom of the ladder in their chosen profession,'' College Career Center Director Betty Goodman notes. \But increas_ingly, employers are seeking well- rounded graduates with good communications skills, the type of individual who can grow and develop with a job.\ As a Union alumnus, Dagastine has participated in previous career programs, and he finds them to be a \won- derful vehicle\ for sharing information with liberal arts majors. \We can tell prospective liberal arts graduates what they need to know about · career op- portunities and j'ob . search strategies because we've been through it so recently our- selves,\ Dagastine notes. Betty Goodman is Director of the College Career Center. Sunny Day Activities Starting at the bottom might mean doing· work on a volunteer basis to gain some experience, according to Gary Dagastine of Albany, a 1979 Union graduate and participant in the recent · career workshop. Dagastine majored in modern languages, with a concentration in Ger- man, and is now a press relations specialist with the General Electric News Bureau. As an underg_raduate, Other participants iri the recent career workshop at Union included Jon Clark, a 1978 political science graduate who is a policy analyst for the U.S. House of Representatives; Jenny Richman, a 1980 history major who is now an alumni program coordinator for the Council for Advancement and Support of Education; and Ron Bergmann, a 1978 sociology major employed by the New York City mayor's office in the Community AssiStance Program. By D:.\ VE FITZGERALD Staff The big question tbis past weekend was \What can one do on a nice sunny day in Schenectady?\ If you said nothing you are wrong because .. there are many things to do and they are close to the campus as well. Sure, if you have a car it is only about a half hour drive to the activities at \The Egg,., in Albany or the track in Saratoga. But these two solutions do not answer the question of what one can do in Schenectady. The following is a list . of suggestions: Library Book Swap When was the last time you said to yourseU, \Hey there ought to be a Book Swap in the all-night study of Schaffer Library?\ Well, it may have been a long time ago or you may never have said that, but now that you think of it, doesn't it sound like a good idea? Through a Book Swap you could trade books you no longer want or need for new ones, thus both clearing out your cluttered rooms and discovering fresh and interesting new reading experiences. Luckily for you, such a Book Swap does exist. UMOC: Located in the lower portion of the all-night study, the Book Swap is open to browsers 24 hours a day. The Book Swap, which .is a program of~ the Union University Students Association, works this way: Any student or faculty member is welcome to look through the Book Swap's collection. If one finds a book which looks in· teresting, he or she is welcome to take the book, eitber to keep or just to read and return. In exchange we ask that sttf'dents and faculty donate any books they no longer want or need. The :&ook Swap presents a fine opportunity for Union students to recycle and trade books, either scholastic texts oF boGks for leisure reading. The existence of the Swap depends upon both the donations and the interest of students. As Union University students, the Book Swap is yours to use and enjoy. Any questions or suggestions on the Swap can be addressed to Edward Albro, Union Univ- ersity Students Association at Box No.1 N·ot Just Ari Ugly Face By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Staff A coninnon occurrence at many colleges is a contest to determine the most popular or best looking person on the campus. But the ugliest? Yes, here at Union the third annual ZBT UMOC ended this past Tuesday, marked by much success. V ~tes for UMOC are placed on different candidates. Any member of the campus com- munity is elegible to run .. Prizes are awarded to the five people receiving the most votes. All of the collected proceeds to to the United Way of Schenectady. become,\ tells Howard Gold- smith, president of ZBT. \When we first started UMOC we of- fered one prize and collected $400. Last year we doubled the money raised, and added prizes. This year, based on the increased response, we now offer prizes to the top five, and plan on raising more for United Way.\ In addition to the prizes to the top five, the backers of the winner are also rewarded for their efforts - with a keg of beer. Is ugliness a necessary -criteria for victory? <!Not necessarily,\ comments Spitz. \Although it could not hurt, what a person basically .needs is support. He or she must be popular enough to pool votes from many sources or be able to get one backer who will guarantee them large support.\ As for whether the task of UMOC chairperson is just another job or an adventure, Spitz contributes the following: \I get very excited when Dave and I tabulate the voting for the This year's UMOC chair- day. Sometimes candidates persons, David Popp and Adam come totally from nowhere into Spitz are very enthusiastic. the top spots. Also, this year the Spitz tells \The pace of this actual number of votes each year is ahead of last year, and candidate had is known only by When started two years ago, we would like to break $1,000.' Dave and myself, making· it the contest was intended to he a David Popp, a UMOC chairman more of a challenge to the gimmick. Noel Tenenbaum, for his second year adds, \We people in contention.'' originator of the UMOC states, have tried to provide greater The members of ZBT \I felt it would be a fun way to incentive for the people to Fraternity would like to take raise money for charity that contribute by featuring more the opportunity to thank all who would involve the campus at prizes and winners. A.dvertising contributed to making this large.\ . for this year's UMOC was on a year's UMOC the success it \Little did we expect it to larger scale than occurred was. Congratulations to all of grow as large as it has_\ .p.re:viausly,.!', ~ , • . .. . . ·-· ... , ..•. .thi~ Y.ear's wi.t)ners! .1. Only a short walk down Union Street is an area of beauty and history \The Stockade.\ In this area there are many old houses · and historical .sites. Goerge Washington even slept in one of the houses during the Revolutionary War. Some of the hoqses are open for tours and the Schenectady Historical Society Museum js down here and is open to visitors. 2. If you have a bike you have the choice of two bike paths to ride on. The closest bike path begins at the Schenectady County Community College and runs parallel to the Mohawk River for about sbr miles. Along the route there are places that you can stop and view the scenery and have a picnic. This path also allows you to see the remnants of the old Erie Canal. Some people enjoy this path so much that they make a day trip of it. The second path starts at the Niskayu,na. town line and leads the rider 5.5 miles away to the Colonie Town Park. 3. Another place one can visit is Central Park. As one of the area's largest parks there are a number of things one can do here. You can play tennis, rent a paddle boat, stroll through a rose garden, and as an added attraction you can see the Union College Baseball Team play !heir \home games\ here. Also It should be noted that a trip to CentralPark is never complete without a ride on the train. 4. There are also a number of special events that happen in the spring around the area. For example the Schenectady Museum sponsors a Inter- national Food Festival which always seems to be a success. 5. If you are hungry after a full day of summer activity then there is an outdoor restaurant (actually a Burger Pit) just for you. It's name is Jmnpin Jacks and it is located just off the Scot~a sid~ of the Schenectady- Scotia Bridge. The prices are reasonable and they claim that their onion rings are world famous. After reading this list nobody should be at a loss for things to do on a nice day in Schenectady. In fact one may not be able to complete all of the activities on !q,e list in the four years that one IS here when the actual munber of nice sunny days that we have is considered. Spring Is Here! and with it comes the annual BIOLOGY CLUB PICNIC Featuring the Always Popular ANATOMICAL CAKE CONTEST when: Friday, May 14 where: Jackson's Gardens time~ 3:00-7:00 pm · \ Tickets are $2.00 , 'S\C \ · . ($1.00 for seniors) N\\.1 Ava i !able in the box office

Page 8 OONCORDIENSIS, April 29, 1982 Crate Thefts rCPS)-College students are milking the dairy industry for millions of dollars a year, ac- eording to industry .SIJokesmen, who claim that the colorful plastic cases used to ship milk cartons are constantly lost to students, who use them for everything from record racks to bookshelf supports to moving crates. The nation's dairies allege they are losing a fortune in stolen cases, especially around college campuses. The problem is so severe in some areas that local dairies are pleading with campus police departments to help them crack down on the student thieves. \It's a nationwide problem,\ says Daved Beren, executive assistant and economist for the Milk Industry Foundation in Washington, D.C. \In total, there are al>out $100 million worth of milk casEs lost per year. And that loss eventually works its way back to the consumer.' • The cases are typically stolen from grocery store loading docks and dairy buildings, Beren says. \A:nd it's theft just like any other kind of theft,\ he asserts. \Even though you're not walking out of a store with it, you're still stealing.\ . While students aren't the only, pilferers of the plastic novelties, Beren says that \it is really a problem around campuses.\ Dairies near the University of Oklahoma at N orrnan, for in- stance, in early April got a state law passed that makes carton theft punishable by fine and imprisonment. \We've had to replace 25,000 to 30,000 cases a year,\ com- plained Don Davis, president of Gilt Edge Farm Dairy in Norman. \Many people don't realize the expense,\ he ex- plains, adding that the cases cost his dairy $3 to $3.50 each. Davis' dairy, along with others in the OU area, has even made special arrangements with campus police to go through student dorms at the end of the 'school year to search for abandoned cases. Penn State is experiencing similar complaints from local dairies, according to Officer Mark Kinley of the campus police department. ''One of our local dairy companies has sent personnel over several times to complain about it,\ says Kinley. \They said they had noticed the cases in students' windows and around campus, and they ex- pressed an interest in getting them returned.\ But Kinley says short of entering and searching students' rooms, there's not much ttie campus police can do except notify the appropriate dairy when a case is found. Similarly, at the University of Missouri at Columbia milk case theft \has certainly been a problem,\ according to Chief Ron Mason of the MU police department. \A lot of students use them for carrying cases by strapping them on the backs of their bicycles or motorcycles,\ says Mason. Students also use them in their dorm rooms as end- tables, footrests, shelves, and storage containers. But '·'it's something that's very difficult to prevent,'' Mason emphasises. He says his department will recover as many of the cases as they can when students move out of the dorms this spring. ACROSS 3 While 1 Mast 4 Corded cloth 5 Drag 5 Rabbits 9 Indefinite 6 Be present number 7 Gutdo's note 12 Gaelic 8 Carry 13 Aleutian 9 Amerces tsland 10 Oral pause 14 Anger 11 Pronoun 15 Preposition 17 Conjunction 16 Harbor 19 Above 18 Revolver 21 Comfort 20 Tellurium 23 Comely symbol 25 Levees 22 Sand bar 26 Barters · 24 Saucy 27 Fond wish 27 Colorless 28 Twisted 29 Ginger - 30 Goad 31 Weight of 33 Jump India 35 Revolve 32 Artist's stand 38 Quarrel 34 Soil 40 Go by water 36 Calcium sym- 43 Wears away bol 46 Urged on 37 Views 48 Growing out 39 Stirred 41 Pronoun 42 llecord 44 Curtain 45 Female ruff 47 Peel 49 Insect eggs 50 Rim 52 Pitch 54 Chinese mile 55 African antelope 1:>7 Appointment 59 Siberian river 61 Pedal digit 63 Kidney fat 65 Solitary 67 Conjunction 68 Actual being 69 For fear that DOWN 1 Fix firmly 2 Prolonged Playboy Photo Jobs Not Really Exciting (CPS)-Playboy is. having a difficult time getting a rise out of the Big Eight. In contrast to past spring campus forays, the magazine's quest for college women to pose for its annual September back- to-school issue can't seem to generate the kind of protest and priceless publicity it used to. \This year it's nice and peaceful,\ says DavidChan, the photographer who in tile last three springs has searched out models for the magazine among Ivy League, Southwest and Southeastern conference women. ''Aside from some letters to the editor, I think the only thing that caused a little vibration was at Kansas State. One of the church groups told the Ramada Inn that if they let us stay there, the group would never send anyone there again.\ But for a tour designed to generate publicity as much as to produce photographs, no news can be bad news. The adage wasn't lost on women!s groups at .conference schools--the universities of Olahoma, Missouri, Kansas, Nebraska and Colorado, plus Kansas State, Oklahoma State and Iowa State. Indeed, the eerie calm greeting Chan is ·CROSS WORD PUZZLE FROM COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE of 51 Printer's measure 53 Latin con- junction 56 Employ 58 Cloth measure 60 Wager 61 Tantalum symbol 62 Preposition 64 Pronoun 6t? Oigraph Answers on page 9. something of a feminist tactic. \We didn't do anything in the way of protests just because we knew it would have a boomerang effect,\ says Caroline P·einer of Kansas Sta,te's Women's Resource Center. \The more we recognize their presence, the more we draw attention to them and give them the publicity they're after in the first place.\ . It's a far cry from the Ivy • League and Southwest Con· ference. Playboy's 1979 tour of the Ivy League provoked huge protests, complete with pickets and campus papers refusing to run Chan's ads calling for models. The next year, Southwest Conference .schools greeted Chan with large demonstrations and even a few bomb threats. At Baylor, President Abner McCall promised to dismiss any students who appeared un- clothed in the magazine. When the student paper took issue with McCall, ,he fired three editors. {All three eventually were forced to transfer. The oe woman who ultimately did expose herself in the Sep- tember, 1980 Playboy was quietly awarded her degree). Playboy's publicity depart- ment skillfully exploited the controversies, responding to the Ivy League uproar by con- tributing money to the Equal Rights Amendment drive and to the Baylor episode by creating a fund for the fired journalists. One of Chan's assistants ,~4lld College Press Service during last year's less-uproarious tour of Southeastern Conference campuses that she would like \a few .more portests\ to \make people want to check us out who ordinarily wouldn't pay any attention to us.\ This year's hunt for modeis has been even lower-key. Chan attributes the quiet to ''the community and the locality. The schools where we had the trouble were the ones with strong women's groups or the ones with religious af- filiations.\ \This year, the schools we're visiting are run by the state .. When you ask them what they think about Playboy being there, they say that the students are over 18-years-old, and can decide for themselves whether they want to participate.\ Playboy public relation$ chief David Salyers believes it's because \people are feeling less threatened by the idea of having students audition for a magazine like Playboy. I find it entirely unexplainable why they ever felt threatened in the first place, but some schools did.\ Some still do. A Harvard faculty member recently-and unsuccessfully-tried to make a campus library drop its Playboy subscription.· A Cambridge women's group last month did convince a Harvard law professor- to qqit as · a Playboy journalism award judge. Chan has gone out of his way to tell campus papers around the conference that he finds the Big Eight women auditioning for him more narcissistic and even \a little hea~ier\ than women from other regions. But the orily place those .comments caused a ripple was at Oklahoma, where a flood of letters inundated the student paper Jor a few daY!i· _ . \I think it's. a .y~cy shallow mind that speaks to those kinds of things,\ Connie Tanczl of tbe Iowa State Women's Center comments, who nonetheless refuses to rise to the bait. \Personally I'd rather they not come here, but obviously some people feel differently.\ 1-4th ANNUAL CLAMBAKE Saturda.v, May 15th 1-6 pm Spring Fever and DERBY DAY GIRLS! Register ~. your team by May 1st. For more· info. see 11 0N THE GREEK FRONT\ The Campus Store Presents: Earn up to $500 or more _ PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz WI-\OM SI-IOULD I SAY 15 CALLING? each year beginning September for 1-3 years Set your own hour~. Monthly payment for placing posters on campus Bonus Prizes Call aGO 526..0883 nE C( a w pi s~ s~ VI tt fE h ti fi tl tl 1' b e c ' ~ '

CONOORDlENSlS, April ~9, 198~ Page 9 College Video Network Will Be Possible Soon (CPS)-Trying to catch the new communications wave, a company here is trying to form a college video network that would start beaming · high• priced programming by satellite to campuses next fall. Some coUege entertainment veterans, however, wonde-r if the network is economically feasible. · \A lot -of us (in the industry) have been looking at it a long time, but we couldn't ever. figure out how it could generate the kind of mon~y it would have to,\ says Michael· Harpster of- New Line Presentations; which · books old-fashioned, in-the-flesh entertainers and films for campuses around the country. \It's a great idea,\ adds a West Coast .booking agent who asked to remain anonymous, \but I don't see how it makes economie sense.\ The \great idea\ is the child of Campus Entertainment Network (CEN), which intends to broadcast \live superstar entertairunent\ over satellite onto large-screen receivers on some 125 campuses nationwide. For an average ticket price of $5, students would get to see acts their campus program- ming committees ordinarily couldn't afford to book onto campus. The venture, in part · bankrolled by media giant Oak Industries, is one of the first pay-per-view television ex- periments directed at college students. CEN public relations spokeswoman Elise Gutman sees the networ-k going beyond music in the future to specialized sporting events, Broadway shews, lectures from, say, \a politician who had a special message for college students,\ and even \self-help educational programs like for pre-law students studying for their (Law School Admissions Test). It'd be almost lik~ a Stanely Kaplan (preparatory) program for the whole coun- try.\ (Kaplan is a prep test franchise). \The music industry,\ she adds, \is also very excited about it. It (underwriting a CEN concert) is a great way to get to a hard-to-reach audience, and it's a great way to sell albums'.\ The audience is hard to reach, she explains, \because it's so expensive to put big-name acts on campuses, and it just can't be done over cable (television). No campuses have cable yet.\ While many campuses do in fact have cable television, a growing and significant number of schools are experimenting with leasing and showing videotaped concerts as a cheaper alternative to live entertainment. Though con- . fusion in copyright law has inhibited the growth of the .practice, dozens of schools, for example, have rented a Fleetwood Mac videotaped concert for as little as $400 just since September. But Gutman doesn't see that as a threat to CEN. \We're just really augmenting what's Puzzle Answer already there- for a limited number .of people.\ Harpster says he investigated · making campus pay~per-view satellite hook-ups, but gave Qp. The people Who underwrite the programming, he explains, have to know how many peaple- potential customer~will see it. Guaranteeing an advertiser how many students will see a given show is difficult, he says. \I hope it works,\ says the West Coast agent, \but it can cost $15tl,00()..$3()(),000 easy to stage and produce just a half- hour concert, And then maybe you can reach (over CEN) bow many-half a million, a million, two million people? The numbers as lseethemdon't add up yet.\ Fr:af Trouble \That's what we couldn't answer: how do you guarantee how many people ate watching? That's what's kept advertisers away from cable television so far. Even the biggest cable outfits· can't u~et their audiences) certified.\ Nevertheless, CEN hopes to broadcast four-to-six shows next · school year. CEN marketing director reports ''there was tremendous en- thusiasm about affiliating with CEN\ at a recent canvention of campus programming officials in Chicago. (CPS)-·Tbe Kappa Sigma national fraternity has revoked the cbarter of its Stanford chapter-once before punished for its liberalism--after members refused to use. certain portions of an \initiation ritual they ela-im \discriminates against certain non-Christian religions.\ In 1967 the fraternity had its Porno Flicks In Class (CPS)-An Iowa State student says a university instructor used \hard~core pornography\ to teach students about sexual attitudes and behavior, and wants the school to force the teacher to drop the material from the popular Health Studies 110 course. \When I signed up for the class, I thought it was mainly about nutrition and exercise,\ recalls student David Renken, a senior majoring in speech and tele-communications arts. But mid-way into the course: Renken says, instructor Michael Pejsach presented a series of lectures and slide shows on sexual attitudes and human behavior. \I was appalled when I saw some of the slides,\ Renken continues. \The slides were actual photographs of men and women performing sexual acts- -not just sketches, but actual ·photographs.\ Renken says several other classmates were equally upset about the \degrading and demeaning\ nature of the pictures. \The photographs show different techniques of in- tercourse and methods of sexual stimulation,\ he ex- plains. \If I'd known they were going to teach how to have sex and use hard-core pornography in class, I wouldn't have taken it.\ Instructor Pejsach asserts they are .strictly \instructional slides,\ and emphases that \no one has access to them but myself.\ Indeed, Qle materials used to be \kept under lock and key at the editorial offices\ of D. Van Nostrand publishing house-- which created the materials to supplement one of its textbooks- ·re~alls Tracy Crane of Van Nostrand-Reinholt Publishing, which used to be affiliated with D. Van Nostrand, a textbook publisher. The latter's 'book list was bought in 1981 by Wadsworth Publishing, which does not produce the supplemental materials, according to Assistant Sales Manager Jim Harrison. Wadsworth, however, has published a new edition of the textbook the materials were originally supposed to com- plement. Renken nevertheless took his case to Dean of Students Jon Dalton, wanting help in forcing Pejsach to drop the slides from the class. Renken's complaint, Dalton says, ' 'prompted an unofficial review of the matter, but the outcome of the review was that the material was .appropriate for the course.\ The student would still \like to see that type of material taken out of education en- tirely.\ \The human race has been able to survive somehow without this kind of sex education,\he asserts. \I agree with teaching anatomy and the birth cycle and even some in- struction on birth contro'l techniques. Bu1 it's just not honorable to show slides of women masturbating or doggie- style intercourse in tbe classroom. There'S no need for it. It's sick.\ · Sexism Costs (CPS)--A court case that could have cost the nation's 114 women's colleges millions of dollars in tax; money was dismissed recently by the Massachusetts .Supreme Court, allowing Smith College to retain its critical tax-exempt standing. The local town of Whately, Mass. had sued Smith, claiming the prestigious women's college could not qualify for tax-exempt status because its admissions policy violated the state equal rights aroendrn.ent. Whately charged Smith was liable for $450 in property taxes for land the school owned within the town. Whately argued that as long as Smith's admissions policy was based on gender, the school was not eligible for tax- exempt standing. Had the Massachusetts High Court ruled in Whately;s favor, single-sex colleges across the country might have faced similar tests of their .,tax statuses. Such status is_ crucial for private schools like Smith, allowing them to avoid paying taxes on land~ buildings, and contributions, as well as per- mittjng contributors to write-off their donations as tax deduc- tions. But the state Supreme Court ruled Whately had no standing to bring the suit, dismissing the case before any substantive issues were decided. Although the case is still open to appeal, Smith spokeswoman Ann Shanahan \hasn't heard anythj.ng\ from Whately since the case was decided. Meanwhile, two other private colleges with uncertain tax- exempt statuses have won temporary victories until the U.S. Supreme Court hears their cases sometime in 1983. Bob Jones University, which forbids interracial dating among students, and Goldsboro Christian Schools, which refuse to admit blacks, retain the tax- exempt standing granted to them earlier this year by President Ronald Reagan. The Supreme Court will decide if the schools' racist policies will have any bearing on their tax-exempt standing. charter revoked for admitting a black member, which at that time violated the national organization's policies. Several months later public pressure forced the national office to allow blacks and other minority members, and the Stanford group was re-chartered. \But we're not counting on being re-admitted this time, at least in the short run,\ says Mike Vaska, spokesman for the Stanford chapter. \We plan on informing all 180 chapters across the country of our stand on the matter, and we're hoping they will put some pressure on the national.\ The Stanford chapter feels that portions of the initiation ceremony prescribed by the national' office are discriminatory and ''in direct violation of the U.S. Con- stitution,'' Vaska says. For the last eight years the chapter has omitted some passages from the ritual, in- cluding certain \oaths signs, and statements that. we felt discriminated against non- traditional religious beliefs.\ Although the chapter had permission from the state representative of Kappa Sigma national to delete parts of the ritual, Vaska says that last year the group was told it must either re-insert the religious references (}f be kicked out of the national organization. \We gave them an option to comply,\ says Lee McWhorter, business manager for the national office. \They were told they had to meet our guidelines or no longer be affiliated with the fraternity. It was their decision. They chose not to go with standard procedure, and it resulted in their charter being revoked.\ \Sure we were given an ultimatum to use the full ritual or be kicked out,\ Vaska recalls. \It was our decision, but there really wasn~t any choice. We simply could not use the ritual as it existed.\ V aska doesli 't think the revocation wUl kill his house. \We didn't receive any financial help from them, so it really won't affect us for the most part. As a local entity, we will remain strong and active.'' Stanford says it will continue to recognize the chapter, Vaska says. In fact Stanford Dean of Students James Lyons recently congratulated the house's stand against \a ritual that en- courages falsehood on the part of some.\ The/ Campus St-ore Presents PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz . NO, I DON'T KNOW W~ERE '(OU CAN FIND JOAN OF ARC .. YES, I HEARD TI.JAi Sl-lE MAY ~AVE ANOREXIA .•. I DOUB~ I.JOWEVER, THAT YOU'LL CONVINCE HER TO EAT A I;>OU614NUT !

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, April 29, 198e Editarials Letters Play Fair The Forum meeting this past Monday was not only a fiasco but an examp.l:e of how the Forum blatantly mutliates tht· Constitution of the student body when convenient. I 'aradoxically, the meeting was also an example of how the Forum will choose to strictly tdhere to regulations and deny precedents set only hree weeks earlier. Gentlemen and ladies of the Forum--make up your ninds. Your \willy-nilly\ policy, or lack of policy if ;ou like, is undermining the already low credlbUity of :our institution. It would appear to the casual observer that the F'orum is playing favorites. Individuals are treated differently and judgments are made according to the \\rules of the week. The Constitution is waived when dealing with defendant' A' and adhered to strictly for friend-of-the-court ·B.' Perhaps the Forum should publish a weekly listing of regulations that they consider valid so that concerned students will· not waste their time and energy. With this system in- stated, it would be known on what night of the month justice would prevail. Take, for instance, the recent controversy brought before the Forum on Monday night concerning the Concert Committee. If we were told that the precedent established concerning the waiving of the Constitution was not going to be applied that night, we would nave not worked so hard to ferret out pertinent evidence and material. Perhaps we would have not brought up the entire issue, thus letting two· offenders off the hook. The Forum President himself stated that the in- cident ''would be forgotten.'' Imagine the leader of a governing body trying to dis.rniss a scandal which involved criminal allegations. Some would say it could never happen in America. Maybe these people have suffered enough at the hands of their peers and the incident should be stricken from our memories. But this is not a decision to be made by the individual holding the position of Forum President or, in fact, a decision of the Student Forum. This falls within the realm of the Student Conduct Committee. As it stands, this issue must sit on the desks of all concerned parties for at least a week and before the Conduct Committee begins proceedings, it must first act on the Mitchell case. Won't it be ef- fective to scold offenders the week before they graduate! The Forum was presented with all per-· tinent documentation to make a recommendation and the decision-making process was stalled because the President wished Cob en and Lenes to be present. Both have candidly admitted that they do not wish to be present at these actions. No Show Before you attend the gala WRUC Cabaret this Tuesday, be aware of one thing: you're being ripped off--for a second time. The entire event has been allowed by the Student Forum to give Jeff Mitchell a way to repay the money that he appropriated to fund his earlier money making venture, the \Awesome Band Party.\ The deal is one that is analogous to a bank making a loan to a thief who just robbed it so that the thief can pay back the bank for the money he took. Student Forum, in its typically myopic way, is concerned only with the bottom line, the money. They see this scheme as a way to get back the money that was spent inappropriately on the party that was ultimately cancelled. Students that attend the Cabaret are paytng twice for Mr. Mitchell's in· discretions. Any beer that is not consumed at the Cabaret will go to Camp Union for tree. We, as students, have already }:nid for the beer once, out of WRUC's funds,; you want to pay for it again out of your own pockets? Especially when that same beer will be available for all of us at Camp Union. By not showing up at the Cabaret, students will be doing the right thing, the obvious thip.g; they will make Mr. Mitchell pay back, by himself, the student money that he spent on nothing, and in turn, we will have the little that there is· to show for our money: a little extra brew at Camp Union. CAMP UNION IS COMING MAY 28th & 29th Anyone wishing to help out please contact: Darcy Hammerman or Ric;:h Tanenbaum There will be Social Committee meetings concerning Camp Un.ion every Wednesday at 4 pm. in Strauss Lounge. Acting EditQrs-in-Chief Executive Editor Managing Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors .. A.J. Brodsky, DiannePavacic Paul Grossman Julianne Abelman Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Cfiaris Richards Copy Editor D.C. Owens NationalNewsEditor CindyJ. Tenner Women'sSports Editor Kathy Bentley Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist DavidNeiblum staff JoeyBeckennan, Norman Birnbach, Marcy. Bmstiner, Thomas Ching, Jodi Cohen, Tim Emswiler, David Fitzgerald, DonnaGetson, P.S. Girsdansky, Emily Haft, Doug Landon, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Debra Moses, Jennifer Paston, Gayle Rosenfeld, Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, Michael Sharp, Franklin Schneider, Judie Steinhardt, E. Vadim, Subscriptions Photo Staff Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne E. Wesley Harris III, Chris.Eshelman Keith Dean, Janet Guiliano, Mary Martin, Pam Meyers, Nonnan Pflaster, Lisa Stern CONGOOD~~NSI$ i$ p,ublisMd~ every ThursdJ.Y J?Y thfr stude.nt. body of Un~ol'l ,C~llege,, Carnegie Hall, Schen~tad~, New 'Y'on:t; 12308; PublicatiOns Office: Susquehanna Publications,· Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, · E607) 563-7151/ Entered in the· Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: S5 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United ·~DlENSIB subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), fmd utiliZes the College News Bureau (CNB). l.Co 2. Ac 3. Cc 4. G Eucl~ 5. It; Ne:x1 Stl.\'a

Page 10 CONCORDIENSJS, April 29, 1982 <Editorials Letters ,. Play Fair The Forum meeting this past Monday was not only a fiasco but an Pxam ple of how the Forum blatantly mutliates tht· Constitution of the student body when eonvenient. I 'aradoxically, the meeting was also an t•xample of how the Forum will choose to strictly tdhere to regulations and deny precedents set only hree weeks earlier. Gentlemen and ladies of the Forum--make up your ninds. Your ''willy-nllly\ policy, or lack of policy if .ou like, is undermining the already low credibility of :our institution. It would appear to the casual observer that the i•'orum is playing favorites. Individuals are treated differently and judgments are made according to the rules of the week. The Constitution is waived when riealing with defendant 'A' and adhered to strictly for friend-of-the-court 'B.' Perhaps the Forum should publish a weekly listing of regulations that they consider valid so that concerned students will not waste their time and energy. With this system in- stated, it would be known on what night of the month justice would prevail. Take, for instance, the recent controversy brought before the Forum on Monday night concerning the Concert Committee. If we were told that the precedent established concerning the waiving of the Constitution was not going to be applied that night, we would nave not worked so hard to ferret out pertinent evidence and material. Perhaps we would have not brought up the entire issue, thus letting two offenders off the hook. The Forum President himself stated that the in- cident ''would be forgotten.'' Imagine the leader of a governing body trying to dismiss a scandal which involved criminal allegations. Some would say it could never happen in America. Maybe these people have suffered enough at the hands of their peers and the incident should be stricken from our memories. But this is not a decision to be made by the individual holding the position of Forum President or, in fact, a decision of the Student Forum. This falls within the realm of the Student Conduct Committee. As it stands, this issue must sit on the desks of all concerned parties for at least a week and before the Conduct Committee begins proceedings, it must first act on the Mitchell case. Won't it be ef· fective to scold offenders the week before they graduate! The Forum was presented with all per- tinent documentation to make a recommendation and the decision-making process was stalled because the President wished Coben and Lenes to be present. Both have candidly admitted that they do not wish to be present at these actions. No Show Before you attend the gala WRUC Cabaret this Tuesday, be aware of one thing: you're being ripped off--for a second time. The entire event has been allowed by the Student Forum to give Jeff Mitchell a way to repay the money that he appropriated to fund his earlier money making venture, the \.AJINesome Band Party.\ The deal is one that is analogous to a bank making a loan to a thief who just robbed it so that the thief can pay back the bank for the money he took. Student Forum, in its typically myopic way, is concerned only with the bottom line, the money. They see this scheme as a way to get back the money that was spent inappropriately on the party that was ultimately cancelled. Students that attend the Cabaret are paying twice for Mr. Mitchell's in- discretions. Any beer that is not consumed at the Cabaret will go to Camp Union for free. We, as students, have already paid for the beer once, out of WRUC's funds,; you want to pay for it again out of your own pockets? Especially when that same beer will be available for all of us at Camp Union. By not showing up at the Cabaret, students will be doing the right thing, the obvious thing; they will make Mr. Mitchell pay back, by himself, the student money that he spent on nothing, and in turn, we will have the little that there is to show for our money: a little extra brew at Camp Union. A Personal Statement To the Student Community: On certain occ.asions, we sometimes find it necessary to reflect upon the meaning and worth of our own existence. At times of extreme personal transition - such as the oc- currence of a death in our · family or even our graduation from college .,.. we seek, for the benefit of our own sanity, to carefully evaluate and sub- sequently reconcile the all too frightening l.lllcertainties. For thGse whose ·difficulties are not overly traumatic, a neat and pragmatic appraisal of reality based upon perceived self- evident truths usually .forms the basis for our future actions. In making s11ch. tough life dedsions it is essential that our final choices are reflective of and in the words of the im .. mortal William Shakespeare - \To thine own self be true. n Thankyout Charles J. Phillips Ill83? Fellowship Responds To the Editor: Last week's issue of Con· cordiensts contained an article entitled \Campus Ministry Revived,\ in which the following statements were made: The ministry keeps aware of Christian Fellowship activities through faculty advisor Professor Scaife of Chemistry and president Cheryl Harkness. They support an human con~ cerns for justice and peace~ including the Student Environmental Alliance, W(}man's Netwcrkl B.L.A.S: and the Student Gay Discussion Group. · Although the \they\ in this passage refers to Father Cox and Mr. Nevin of the Campus Ministry, it has been mistakenly attributed to the Christian Fellowship. The Union College Christian Fello~ship is a studentwrun organization and does not oollectively support any other campus organization. Individuals within the group may be involved in other ac~ tivities, but the Fellowship itself does not support any other activity. My name falls closest to the ambiguous pronoun and I am not even a member of any of the organizations named. To avoid further confusion, please · be mare careful with the pronouns! Sincerely, Cheryl Harkness Presldent, Union College Christian Fellowship our own personal and unclouded~~'------------------------­ moral, ethical beliefs. · Normative influences - such as those present at Union College or in any social com· munity (including the family) . can.often cloud the individual's perception ()f him-herself and distort the truths wbieh he-she has come to incorporate, Freedom of thought and cboi'Ce: are highly sensitive and acutely powerful rights which, by virtue of being human~ we have au come to possess. Being· within the norm by true elwice and-or preference is the antltbesis of sacrificing -one's mental freedom and thwarting one's God--given individuality by succumbing to the foolish pressures of a certain mode of existence. :As Socrates~ in the beauty of his brevity, once. stated~ \KNOW THYSELF.'' In a world, or even in a small · colll.Inunity, where all in- dividuals were functionally aware of their rights to free thought and. choice, un- comfortable explanations for some of our questionable ac- tions would be unnecessary. This letter happens to be occurring at one of these crossroad points in my life where I happen to be reflecting upon the worth and meaning of my own existence. Having freely agreed to always follow the dictates of my own beliefs ... dealing with the uncertainty asoociated with the change which I am now faced with hf\s led to some surpristngly easy decisions. As the result of my . current situation, it behooves · · me to remove myself from the confines of one all too bumble, yet lovable, Union College. I leave behind nearly three years . of vital perceptions, thoughts, and conversations which have provided much needed fuel to the fire of my on·golng . maturation process. I write this · letter not to imply any in- dictment of the Uruon social · community but merely to make a few personal statements about life -leaving them as my lone recogniZed contribution ta · {and f'rom) this institution. I ' would Hke to wish the best to all my friends and foes. and also to those I did not have the occasion to . meet. along the . way. Remember - and I seek. n<>t to influence - keep forever the faith in tbose truths arrived at · by your own non--contaminated · individual will i have the· courage of your own convictions CAMP UNION IS COMING MAY 28th & 29th Anyone wishing to help out please contact: Darcy Hammerman or Ric;:h Tanenbaum There will be Social Committee meetings concerning Camp Union every Wednesday at 4 pm in Strauss Lounge. Acting Editors-in-Chief Executive Editor Managing Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors A.J. Brodsky, Dianne Pavacic Paul Grossman Julianne Abelman Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Copy Editor D.C. Owens National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Women's Sports Editor Kathy Bentley Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist. David Neiblum Staff Joey Beckerman, Nonnan Birnbach, MarcyBurstiner, Thomas Ching, Jodi Cohen, Tim Emswiler, David Fitzgerald, Donna Getson, P .S. Girsdansky, Emily Haft, Doug Landon, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Debra Moses, Jennifer Paston, Gayle Rosenfeld, Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, Michael Sharp, Franklin Schneider, Judie Steinhardt, E. Vadim, Subscriptions Photo Staff Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshehnan Keith Dean, Janet Guiliano, Mary Martin, Pam Meyers, Norman Pflaster, Lisa Stern CON<;ORDIENSIS i-s p,ablished every Thursday _by the student body of Union C~Uege, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New Yi>til; 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Bo~ 388, Sidney, New York, 13638, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United ·~DIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS) and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). ·L' To the Si Onl\h sponsori up to $ cabaret to reimb he incUl'l Band p, the r~a1 exist en misman irrespor .our dut: body a~ may. sp will go him 1 origin a money. Fr 1.0 2. A 3. c 4. ( Bud 5. R Nex Strl ( ~

. OONOORDIENSIS, Af)riZ ~9, 198~ Page 11 Letters <Editorials love, Union Style Aid to Guatemala By NORMAN BIRNBACH CollUnnfst-et-large College is' different from high school. A brilliant revelation, I know. I mean, it's a :given: college is different from anything you've done before. Everything. Trite- yes, but it's true nevertheless. In many , ways., nothing compares to colleg~. For the first time in most people's lives, they're completely on their own, in- dependent. College students· can do just about anything they want. If they want to stay out late, and' get rip-roaring drunk, they can. Mom and Dad won't care because they won't know. College is different because you're tre~ted like adults. If any institution has helped adolescent rebellion against their parents, it's college. College is different because you can take pretty much what you want to take. If you're not a mathematician, you can take \Math for Morons\ or STUDENT FORUM AGENDA FOR MAY 3, 1982 1. Collllllittee Reports 2. Additional \Awesome Band Party\ Comments 3. Comcert Committee Proposal 4. Gemeral Misuse of Budgets by Committees with Large Bu«<gets 5. :Ratify Minutes Next Meeting: Monday, May 3, 1982 Str\all:!s Lounge 4 :.30 SAV MARGAR;T, 0111 THEIR WA~ aACK f=R.OM T\'E FALKLANDS, HOW'I) 't'OVR. SOVS L.IK£ TO .S1'0~ OFF '\\' SUN NV £L SALVADOR? \Remedial Math for Morons.'; In college, you don't have to go to the nurse to get excused from gym. In college, there is nQ required gym. Isn't that sim- ple? But not everything is as simple. Yes, you can do things without having to check with your parents if it'sall right, now that you're in college. You have no one who tells you what to do. That means .if you mess up, you have no one to blame but yourself. At college, as the adage goes, you make your own bed .... although not many are that. neat- so you have to lie in it. What does that mean? Simply that with freedom comes a lot of responsibility. Again, not an insightful deduction, but all of this leads up to my point. My point iS that whi:le a lot of things are dif- ferent in college, there is one thing that doesn't change very much: relations between guys and - no, I won't say it (dolls) - girls. When I had been here for a couple of weeks, people asked me what I thought of college. \It's not what I expected,\ I told them, which prompted the question of exactly what it was that I expected. After a couple of weeks here, I realized that relations between the sexes were more mature than in high school, but sometimes not by much. There are some problems. The first to be mentioned - at least, by the male population - is that the female population .isn't large enough. One problem is that it's hard to conununicate with the opposite sex. That happens everywhere. but the situation isn't helped any by the way the social life is run at Union. You don't talk at a fraternity party, you drink. So where can you tal~? At the Pub or the Skeller? You know the answer to that. You meet people thrQugh classes or friends, but even then, it's not easy. · So what do you do about all of this? I don't know. It's a problem that's been here, and it's a problem that's going to be here. Another population-based problem is the· size of the conununity. There are only two thousand people here. That's four times the size of my high school, and I didn't know everyone there. One difference from high school is that we're here twenty-four hours a day. This is our home. So when things happen, people hear about them\ One night, I went to \The Gqod Doctor,\ the pub, a party at Smythe House. The next day, someone I hadn't seen the whole night before asked me what I thought of the play, the Pub, and the party. I was amazed. My friends said, simply, \It's a small campus.\ It's more than a small campus, at times, it's like a soap opera. Everybody knows about everyone else's business. So even though you might not know everyone on campus, you might have heard about everyone ori campus\ This is only the tip of the iceberg. There are other problems with the social life that will have to be taken up at . another time because I'm about to run out of space. By THOMAS CHING \The United States has decided to end a four~year freeze on arm sales to Guatemala after signs that a coup last montb improved hwnan rights condition, ac- cording to Administration of- ficials.'' Tbe New York Times United States - friend of the free world and policeman of the Western Hemisphere ... bas begun approval of the sale of $4 million owrth of spare parts for American made helicapters being used by the Guatemalan Army against leftist rebels. In addition, the U.S. is also resuming loans to Guatemala in the Inter-American Develop- ment Bank as well as reviving $50,000 in military training funds for the current year. The chief purpose of the sale, according to Congressional sources, is \to reward the new Guatemalan junta for moving against corruption and in- discriminate violence since seizing power on March 23rd.\ The Reagan Administration feels that there has been an improvement in the hwnan rights condition despite Thomas 0. Ender's designation of General Romeo Lucas Garcia's rule as a \regime with a record of serious human rights violations.\ Fortunately, there has been opposition from the liberal members of the U.S. Congress who stress that ac- tions and financial support should be detained. According to a Congressional aide, \We really don't have enough in- formation to measure whether things are bettel\ temporarily or permanently.\ Given these -obstacles, it remains unlikely that Congress will approve the arms delivery and military aid. The Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Inter-American Affairs, Michael D. Baines, requested that the Administration consult with Congress before any action is taken\ However, Congress was certain that the Reagan Administration seemed determined to reward the new Guatemalan regime for im- provements of human rights, corruption and indiscriminate violence. Furthermore, it seems that the U.S. was in- terested in aiding the Guatemalan Army under General Garcias against the rural rebels but was forced to abort these plans because of Congressional and public op- position. This was prior to the \rigged\ elections of General Guevara and the eventual coup d'etat by the military junta l_ed by General Rios Montt. Immediately after the election of General Guevara, President Reagan expressed .support and recognized the victory of Guevara. Since the General Guevara has been ousted by the military junta, its leader, General Rios, pledged to dismantle political corruption and to charge various paramilitary officials for crimes against the state. Although Montt claims that all insurgency has been crushed by his regime, the U.S. govern- ment is, nevertheless, begin- ning resumptions of arms deliveries. Even more bizarre is that the American shipment of arms was not requested by the Montt regime who were more interested in construction equipment ( i ;e. bulldozers) . According to Montt, the murdering and exile of politicians and military leaders by the rightist forces and the slaughtering of Indian peasants to destroy the political support for the insurgents by the army has ceased and was eliminated by his coup. The people of Guatemala, Montt claims, are geared primarily in recon- struction and stabilization of Guatemala rather than vengeance or retaliation against the former regime. But then why is the U.S. govern- ment demanding that the Guatemalan regime of Montt accept military arms and training funds? Several possibilities exist, however, the most notable is the obvious appeasement of the Montt regime through military and financial support by the Reagan administration. Perhaps in a late but feeble attempt to demonstrate his strong political support for the non-violent and honest Montt and not for the corrupt and dastardly fiend Guevara a month earlier. In order to save face and perhaps to obliviate the political fiasco in which Reagan's letter of support proclaimed and recognized Guevara's victory, the Reagan Admin~str ation foolishly believes that monetary support can conquer the memories of Montt and Co. But the Guatemalans in the past have demonstrated their staunchness and independence. After the Carter denunciations in 1978 of Guatemala's human rights violations, the Guatemalan gpvernrnent ·renounced American military assistance. During the Reagan Administration efforts were made to the Guatemalans in which a commercial sale of a much needed $3.2 million worth of jeeps and vehicles to the Guatemalan Army. The only provision was that General Lucas temper military op- pression and sponsor a civilian candidate for the elections. The offer remained stagnant. The American offer of arms and military aid to a transient Montt regime should be con- doned because of the relative \newness\ and uncertainty in the future of its head and the regime itself. Furthermore the U.S. should refrain from of- fering arms and monetary funds in the future to a country which neither wants nor requested it. If the Reagan Administration sincerely believes that it can support a leader in a nation constantly in flux it should first consider the fate of its predecessors. The falls of past American sup- ported leaders such as Chiang Kai-8hek and Shah Reza of Iran are remnants of failed American efforts. All that can be said of current trend of the Reagan Administration's financial and monetary support of transient nations is that it is unwise and severely detrimental to American foreign policy in the near future. CONCORDIENSIS welcomes reader comments. Drop us a line or. stop by the office. \ After all, it's YOUR newspaper.

• OONOORDIENSIS, April S9, 1982 Page 11 Co IllllleJltary Letters Editorials Love, Union Sty I e Aid to Guatemala ' . .; Cabaret Sponsored To the student body: On May 4th, WRUC will be spons.or.lng a cabaret. Proceeds, up to $400, made froon thU cabaret will go to Jeff Mitchell to reimburse hfm for the losses be incurred from the \Awesome Band Party.\ We believe that the reason for this cabaret's existence is due to mismanagement af funds and irresponsible leadership. It is our duty h> make. the student body award that the money they may. spend to see this cabaret • will go to Jeff Mitchell to pay him back for mistakes originally made with their .money. Sincerely, steven BenS()n Shari Midoneck: Freshman Representatives By NORMAN BffiNBACH Columnist-at-large College is different from high I··· school. A brilliant revelation, I know. I mean, it's a given: college is different from anything you've done befare. Everything. Trite ..... yes, but it's true nevertheless. In many . ways, nothing cmnpares to college. For the first time in most people's lives, they're cempletely on their own, in- dependent. College students can do just about anything they want. If they want to stay out late, and get rip-roaring drunk, they can. Morn and Dad won't care because they won't know. College is different because you're treated like adults. If any institution has helped adolescent rebellion against their parents, it's college. College is different because you can take pretty much what you want to take. If you're not a mathematician, you can take \Math for Morons\ or STUDENT FORUM AGENDA FOR MAY 3, 1982 1. Committee Reports 2. Additional \Awesome Band Party\ Comments 3. Concert Committee Proposal 4. General Misuse of Budgets by Committees with Large Budgets 5. Ratify Minutes Next Meeting: Monday, May 3, 1982 Strauss Lollllge 4:30 SA'/ MAAG-ARiii, ON THEIR WAY ~ACt< FROM T\-\E FALKLANDS, I-lOW'() '(OVA. SOYS L.IKE. TO .STOP OFF IN SUN NV E.L SALVA[)OR? \Remedial Math for Morons.\ In college, you don't have to go to the nurse to get excused from gym. In college, there is no required gym. Isn't that sim- ple? But not everything is as simple. Yes, you can do things without having to check with your parents if it's all right, now that you're in college. You have no one who tells you what to do. That means if yeu mess up, you have no one to blame but yourself. At college, as the adage goes, you make yeur own bed - although not many are that neat- so you have to lie in it. What does that mean? Simply that with freedom comes a lot of responsibi1ity. Again, not an insightful deduction, but all af this leads up to my point. My point is that while a lot of things are di.f- ferent in college, there is one thing that doesn't change very much: relations between guys and- no, I won't say it (dolls)- girls. When I had been here for a couple of weeks, people asked me what I thought of college. \It's not what I e:xpectecl.,\ I told them, which prompted the question of exactly what it was that I expected. After a couple of weeks here, I realized that relations between the sexes were more mature than in lligh school, but someti.Ines not by much. There are some problems. The first to be mentioned - at least, by the male population - is that the female population isn't large enough. One problem is that it's hard to communicate with the opposite sex. That happens everywhere, but the situation isn't helped any by the way the social life is run at Union. You don't talk at a fraternity party, you drink. So where can you talk? At the Pub or the Skeller? You know the answer to that. You meet people through classes or friends, but even then, it's not easy. So what do you do about all of this? I don't know. It's a problem that's been here, and it's a problem that's going to be here. Another population-based problem is the size of the community. There are only two thousand people here. That's four times the size of my high school, and I didn't know everyone there. One difference from high school is that we're here twenty-four hours a day. This is our horne. So when things happen, people hear about them. One night, I went to \The Gqod Doctor,\ the pub, a party at Smythe House. The next day, someone I hadn't seen the whole night before asked me what I thought of the play, the Pub, and the party. I was amazed. My friends said, simply, \It's a small campus.\ It's more than a small campus, at times, it's like a soap opera. Everybody knows about everyone else's business. So even though you might not know everyone on campus, you might have heard about everyone ori campus. This is only the tip of the iceberg. There are other problems with the social life that will have to be taken up at another time because I'm about to rWI out of space. By THOMAS CHING \The United States has decided to end a four-year freeze on arm sales to Guatemala after signs that a caup last month improved human rights condition, ac- cerding to Administration of- ficials.\ The New York Times United States- friend of the free world and policeman of the Western Hemisphere - has begun approval of the sale of $4 million owrth of spare parts for American made helicopters being used by the Guatemalan Army against leftist rebels. In addition, the U.S. is also res tuning loans to Guatemala in the Inter-American Develop- ment Bank as well as reviving $50,000 in military training funds for the current year. The chief purpose of the sale, according to Congressional sources, is \to reward the new Guatemalan junta for moving against corruption and in· discriminate violence since seizing power on March 23rd.\ The Reagan Administration feels that there has been an improvement in the human rights condition despite Thomas 0. Ender's designation of General Romeo Lucas Garcia's rule as a \regime with a record of serious human rights violations.\ Fortunately, there has been opposition from the liberal members of the U.S. Congress who stress that ac- tions and financial support should be detained. According to a Congressional aide, \We really don't have enough in- formation to measure whether things are better temporarily or permanently.\ Given these obstacles, it remains unlikely that Congress will approve the arms delivery and military aid. The Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Inter-American Affairs, Michael D. Baines, requested that the Administration consult with Congress before any action is taken. However, Congress was certain that the Reagan Administration seemed determined to reward the new Guatemalan regime for im- provements of human rights, corruption and indiScriminate violence. Furthermore, it seems that the U.S. was in- terested in aiding the Guatemalan Army under General Garcias against the rural rebels but was forced to abort these plans because of Congressional and public op- position. This was prior to the \rigged\ elections of General Guevara and the eventual coup d'etat by the military junta l~d by General Rios Montt. Immediately after the election of General Guevara, President Reagan expressed support and recognized the victory of Guevara. Since the General Guevara has been ousted by the military junta, its leader, General Rios, pledged to dismantle political corruption and to charge various paramilitary officials for crimes against the state. Although Montt claims that all insurgency has been crushed by his regime, the U.S. govern- ment is, nevertheless, begin- ning resumptions of arms deliveries. Even more bizarre is that the American shipment of arms was not requested by the Montt regime who were more interested in construction equipment (i.e. bulldozers). According to Montt, the murdering and exile of politicians and military leaders by the rightist forces and the slaughtering of Indian peasants to destroy the political support for the insl:ll\gents by the army has ceased and was eliminated by his coup. The people of Guatemala, Montt claims, are geared primarily in recon- struction and stabilization of Guatemala rather than vengeance or retaliation against the former regime. But then why is the U.S. govern- ment demanding that the Guatemalan regime of Montt accept military arms and training funds? Several possibilities exist, however, the most notable is the obvious appeasement of the Montt regime through military and financial support by the Reagan administration. Perhaps in a late but feeble attempt to demonstrate his strong political support for the non-violent and honest Montt and not for the corrupt and dastardly fiend Guevara a month earlier. In order to save face and perhaps to obliviate the political fiasco in which Reagan's letter of support proclaimed and recognized Guevara's victory, the Reagan Administration foolishly believes that monetary support can conquer the memories of Montt and Co. But the Guatemalans in the past have demonstrated their staunchness and independence. After the Carter denunciations in 1978 of Guatemala's human rights violations, the Guatemalan government ren() unced American military assistance. During the Reagan Administration efforts were made to the Guatemalans in which a commercial sale of a much needed $3.2 million worth of jeeps and vehicles to the Guatemalan Army. The only provision was that General Lucas temper military op- pression and sponsor a civilian candidate for the elections. The offer remained stagnant. The American offer of arms and military aid to a transient Montt regime should be con- doned because of the relative \newness\ and uncertainty in the future of its head and the regime itself. Furthermore the U.S. should refrain from of- fering arms and monetary funds in the future to a country which neither wants nor requested it. If the Reagan Administration sincerely believes that it can support a leader in a nation constantly in flux it should first consider the fate of its predecessors. The falls of past American sup- ported leaders such as Chiang Kai-Shek and Shah Reza of Iran are remnants of failed American efforts. All that can be said of current trend of the Reagan Administration's financial and monetary support of transient nations is that it is unwise and severely detrimental to American foreign policy in the near future. CONCORDIENSIS welcomes reader comments .. Drop us a line or stop by the office. After all, it's YOUR newspaper.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, April 29, 1982 ...... ' ., ' • l \ ... ' C> • . . Building, room 216. These scholarships are awarded to graduates of Union College who plan to attend Albany Law School. Applications are due by July l, 1982. High Blood Pressure General Nottices High blood pressure is a disease often without symptoms which can affect anyone. In recognition of May being the month for detection of high blood pressure, the Health Service personnel will be available in Carnegie's Banquet Reom May 14, 19 and 20 from 11:30-2:30. p.m. for screening. Application forms for Saxton, Porter and Speir Scholarships are available from Professor Joseph Boa11d, Social Sciences It's a hct summer. Ned Racine is waiting for something special to happen. And when it does ... He won't be ready for the consequences. BODY HEAT As thr temperature rises, tlu! suspense begins. I• \BODY HEAT'' WILLIAM HURT . KATHLEEN TURNER and RICHARD CRENNA Written and Directed by LAWRENCE KASDAJ',; Friday at 11: oo Sat. & Sun--7, 9 & 11 Fantastic Fight to the Between the Steel-Trap-Dragons t FANTAStiC PLANET Tues. at 9 & 11 - FREE METROCOLOR- llQ <0> COLOROY ~ !ffi DE LUXE~ • THEATRE Wed. at 7, 9 & 11-$1.00 e . Ices Health Service personnel are most interested in those on campus who have not had a blood pressure reading in the past year ot are at a risk: obese, heavy smokers, diabetic or with family history of high. blood pressure, heart disease or strokes. Screening is also available any time during regular clinic hours: Mon-Fri. 7:30-10:30 and Sat. or Sun. 11-5 p.Jn. Association. HURRY --appli• cations must be received by May 1! Available in the Financia'l Aid Office (X6123). WANTED: Someone willing to cook 10 meals a week for 20 girls. Experience requested. Salary negotiable. Call .382-8768 and. ask for June or Julie. Summer Sublet Very nicely furnished room in large flat (big porch etc.) on Park Ave. available June 15. Cheap--Call Ste.fan-393-5336. .. . ' ~. l. ~ , ~L .,., .. ·;J -{...• Staying in .Schenectady this summer? There's room available right across the street from campus on Union Avenue. Rent is negotiable. If interested call346-2654 and ask for Charis~ Planning to attend graduate school in Osteopathic Medicine? Scholarships are available from the American Osteopathic j On <fbe Otbcr frcttt l Presented by Union College Film Committee eaw·· Thursday .- at 9:00 & 11:00 Curling Club Meeting Saturday, May 1, at 1:30 in Conference Room A (next to the game room). Next year's bonspiel will be planned, and officers elected. For more in- formation call Marc at 393-5336, or &,ox 2122. Women & the Workplace The Schenectady Women's Network Task Force will be holding its second annual conference entitled \Women and the Workplace\ Saturday, May 8 at Schenectady County Community College. The conference will feature a keynote speaker and a series of lectures and workshops con- cerning issues confronting working wemen and women seeking work. Subjects of the eight workshops include job research strategies, education, home-work pressures and managing time and money. The conference will be from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. with a $3. registration fee. There Will be coffee breaks throughout the day. Lunch may be reserved for an additional $3. .by those wishing to stay for a post- conrerence wrap-up and discussion. For further in- formation, call the ·Human Services Planning Council at 372-3395. Act One: The Last Gasp of Jim Etkin Act Two: Jody Brenner, Michael Klein & Steve larsen MC: Renee Haber ._ . -CAREER WORKSHOPS Summer Job Search Strategies-Thurs., April29, 3:30p.m., Career Center. Alternative Job Search Strategies for Jrs. & Srs., Thurs., April29, 6:30p.m., Career Center. Career Information for Underclassmen-Man., May 3, 3:30p.m. Career Center. Introduction to the Career Center and career exploration. How to Survive After Union-Thurs., May 6, 3:30p.m., Strauss Lounge. For Seniors. How to budget time and money for living and saving-apartment hunting, menu planning, dressing professionally, insurance, and personal investing. · Why Liberal Arts?-sat., May 8, 1 p.m., Stage Two, Carnegie. A panel discussion on the value of liberal arts education in today's world. Sponsored by faculty and the Career Center. Bring your parents! \Your Interview\-Mon. May 20, 6:30p.m., Career Center. A three-part video-1ape series on in- terviewing techniques: Part !-Interview Preparation; Part ll-The Interview; Part III-Interview Follow-Up. (Note: this session is a new addition to the workshop schedule.) . I INTERNSHIPS World's Fair Interns Needed! The East 'l'ennessee Community Design Center, a non-profit design group specializing in solar and appropriate technology, is looking for interns to work at the Ap- propriate Community Technology '82 Center on the site-of the 1982 World's Fair. Interns are needed to run all aspects of the Center during the six-month period from May 1-Qctober 31, including building and maintaining exhibits.; scheduling special events; staffing the exhibits; working in the bookstore, etc. Housing is provided. Interested persons should contact: Elaine Grant, East Tennessee Com- munity Design Center, 1522 Highland Ave., Knoxville, TN 37916. t615) 525-9945. CAMP UNION IS COMING MAY 28th &·29th ·Anyone wishing to help ouf please contact: Darcy Hammerman or Rich Tanenbaum There will be Social Committee meetings concerning Carnp Union every Wednesday at 4 pm in· Strauss lounge. otJ\'.~ .{ r •. ....... : ' 9 C,.. IC ' . ' ~ .._< t;) ... . ' '-· I stlttlQ though·] Sweet F better. your }le. Vakf terri,fie Karen. ~ LPl4• really ' with Y• want;: 5300. ·(i LP12. - RAT· down~t< Mari woUld uttle'b a vi1lit -·-.-· Del Hur1 drawir team ' Delta 22, 19e form requir sorry fun. AttE 14th l bake petiti• Thee with chari priviJ De consi

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, April ~9, 198j3 Ge,neral Nottices --· Application forms for Saxton, Porter and Speir Scholarships are available from Professor Joseph Board, Social Sciences It's a hot summer. Building, room 216. These schnlarships are awarded to graduates of Union College who plan te attend Albany Law School. Applications are due by July 1, 1982. High Blood Pressure High blood pressure is a disease often without symptoms which can affect anyone. In recognition of May being the month for detection of high blood pressure, the Health Service personnel will be available in Carnegie's Banquet Room May 14, 19 and 20 from 11: 3()-2: 30 p.m. for screening. Ned Racine is waiting for something special to happen. And when it does ... He won't be ready for the consequences. As the temperature rises, the suspense begins. ;. \BODY HEAT\ WILLIA:-.1 iH 'RT KATHLEE~ TURNER and RICHARD CRE:\\.; A Written anti Directed hy LAWRE~CE KASD:\\.; Friday at 11:00 Sat. & Sun--7, 9 & 11 The Fantastic Fight to the Between the Steel-Trap-Dragons t FANTAstiC PlANET Tues. at 9 & 11 - FREE METROCOLOR rn <® COLOROY ~ ffi DE LUXE~ U-J THEATRE Wed. at 7, 9 & 11 - $1.00 - Ices Health Service persennel are most interested in these on campus who have not had a blood pressure reading in the past year or are at a risk: obese, heavy smokers, diabetic or with family history of high. blood pressure, heart disease or strokes. Screenin.g is also available any time during regular clinic hours: Mon-Fri. 7:30-10:30 and Sat. or Sun. 11-5 p.m. Planning to attend graduate school in Osteopathic Medicine? Scholarships are .avaHable from the Amertcan Osteopathic Presented by Union College Film CommiHee Thursday at 9:00 & 11:00 Association. HURRY--appli· cations must be received by May 1! Available in the Financial Aid Office (X6123). WANTED: Smneane willing to cook tO meals a week for 20 girls. Experience requested. Salary negotiable. CaH 382-8768 and ask for June or Julie. SummerSublet Very nicely furnished room in large flat (big porch etc.) on Park Ave. available June 15. Cheap-Call Stefan~393-5336. Curling Club Meeting Saturday, May 1, at 1:30 in Conference Room A (next to the game room). Next year's bonspiel will be planned, and officers elected. For more in- formation ca1l Narc at 393-5336, or aox 2122. Women & the Workplace The Schenectady Women's Network Task Force will be holding its second annual conference entitled \Women and the Workplace\ Saturday, May 8 at Schenectady County Community College. The conference will feature a \ . \· \---\ .jo '_, ...-'1. _..,_ •• Stayin~ in Schenectady this s11mmer? There's room available right across the street from. c~pus on Union Avenue. Rent is negotiable. If interested eal134ll-2654 and ask for Charis. keynote speaker and a series of lectures and workshops con- cerning issues confronting working women and women seeking work. Subjects of the eight \\'or-kshops include job research strategies, education, home-wor-k pressures and IDanqging time and money. The·c onference will be from 8 a.m. t() 2 p.m. with a $3. registration fee. There will be coffee breaks throughout the d.ay. L11.nch may be reserved for an ad<iitional $3. by those wishing to stay for a post- conr-er ence wrap-up and discussion. For further in- formation, call the Human Services Planning Council at 372-339~. Act One: The las1 Gasp Gf Jim Etkin Act Two: Jody Brenner, lv'l ichael Klein & Steve Larsen MC: Renee Haber CAREER WORKSHOPS \ Summer Job Search Strategies-Thurs., April29, 3:30p.m., Career Center. Alternative Job Search Strategies for Jrs. &Srs., Thurs., April29, 6:30p_m_, Career Center. Career Information for Underclassmen-Mon., May 3, 3:30p.m. Career Center. Introduction to the Career Center and career exploration. How to Survive After Union-Thurs., May 6, 3:30p.m., Strauss Lounge. For Seniors. How to budget time and money for living and saving-apartment hunting, menu planning, dressing professionally, insurance, and personal investing. Why Liberal Arts? -sat., May 8, 1 p.m., Stage Two, Carnegie. A panel dbscussion on the value of liberal arts education in today's world. SponS<Jred by faculty and the Career Center. Bring your parents! \Your Interview\-Mon. May 20,6:30 p.m., Career Center. A three-part video-tape series on in- terviewing techniques: Part !-Interview Preparation; Part li-The Interview; Part III-Interview Follow•Up. (Note: this session is a new addition to the workshop schedule.) INTERNSHIPS World's Fair Interns Needed! The East Tennessee Community Design Center, a non-profit design group specializing in solar and appropriate technology, is looking for intems to work at the Ap- propriate Community Technology '82 Center on the site-of the 1982 World's Jfair. Interns are needed to run all aspects of the Center during the six-m()nth period from May 1-0cto ber 31, including building and maintaining exhibits; scheduling special events; staffing the exhibits: v,rorking in the bookstore, etc. Housing is provided. Interested persons should contact: Elaine Grant, East Tennessee Com- mWlityDesignCenter, 1522HighlandAve., &loxville, TN 37916. (615) 525-g945. CAMP UNION IS COMING MAY 28th & 29th Anyone wishing to help out please contact: Darcy Hammerman or Rich Tanenbaum There will be Social Committee meetings concerning Camp Union every Wednesday at 4 pm in Strauss lounge4 ,r. ' ~~ r • .. .... ' lo'l\' 0 ' • < l~oo' ~ .. . . '- So.nia: CHil'Mt 1 stilllo• though] Swoot P . better. your be1 Val-E terrific Karen. LP14~ really ~ With y( want a 5309. (7 LP12. RAT- down~t< flying GRK! Mari would little b1 a visit HapJ and I I and v carryiJ Del Hun drawin team< Delta 22, 198 form requir• sorry: fun. Atte 14th E bake petiti< Thec1 with 1 chari privH De1 consi:

OONOORDIENSIS, April 29~ 198! Page 18 ~ ' . Ices o,.., .• .Jiji~~~ ,{ ..... ,.. ... : ' \\\ 0 - ., ' <' \ \(. t) .. ..,\ .. '- ·. . ' ~/' ....;0 ~~Yl.\\'!·\\\. S :. Y.Q\1 look more; Uk~ a C !KlhanaOOWl!·~t I smt love· you an,WaY. (ltven thouglr · . · WGtlld Qall. rou SWeet Pig saw you). Fell better. Love always, One :of your bestea1>fd®ds, BQ . . Vat .... aappy Birt:hday to a terrUie roommate. Lovce~ Karen. LPi~(~llj he:r(l it.· i&!) l really enjbyed W6rkitlg (etc.) with you too. Whenev-er you want another, just call: 861- 5300. ·(7 p::m~ Sunday?!). Love~ LP12. RAT'-In the real world wen down-to.-e.artb peGple go 'l'·l1ird ~g :and consider · it- fun:! G}lK! . . ,··.· Maria and 'Clare, r wi$11 ym wowd. stop .lusting 'Qft'ei- my little ·brother White he is herem a visit!!! Delta Gamma Reminder Hurry! Deadlines are drawing near! Organize yo1ll' team of ten for the upcomiag Delta Gamma Olympics, May 22, 1982. Ask your RA's for in- formation concernin.g requirements so you won't be sorry you missed out on all the fun. Derby Day Attention Union women; the 14th annual Sigma Chi Clam· bake and Derby Day Com· petition will soon be upon us .. The competition provides t-gams with a chance to· do something charitable for the under· privileg~d~ · Derby Day teams should consist of at least 10 women. · To tllk': s\lltburned >Banana,;.; Frozen Stt'awber-ties ···beat JMagne·anjtime in'fl!W· book! w~~u have a lot ~f·~ them when the· Christmas 'l'ree takes us to the Suitcase Partydteep it up and I will toQ:. ·D • .John~ Ul-you are a real cuti~! l wish·that you wo~d be here next year so l could get to Jmow you better. With love, a ·· from Ohio . E. W. DC-I love men with dark 'brown eurly.bairt a beard; and with . a · strong se!lH of crudeness. '{ ou certainly have all of these. Pleas~_ pay more attention to' me->-youtre great! With love, the blonde T. W. across· tlrei ball. Dearest Deltas-Drink ALBA much? 1 didn:'t know what I was starting. N0:w I've gQt a bun.CJh of addicts ·on my hands •. · Oh yeM-'1\anks, Fag, for the use of yO:llr blender. rt 's ap- Pr:eeiatea. Delta love~ .lt}.-0 Scoring of the competition is · based on raffle sales, Derby chase, quarter bounce, and the events held at the Clambake. Money raised by your raffle sales will be donated to a local charity in the team's name. Hurry~ Organize a team and call usto register. The deadline is May 1st. Contact George Cholakis or Rick Russell at 382- 9582. Chi Psi Charity Party Chi Psi's 18th annual Spring Charity Party will be held on Sat. May 1st at 10:00 p.m. There will be food available along with free beer and punch. There will also be a cabaret downstairs and a live band featuring The Kidz. Tickets are $2.00 in ad· vance and $3.00 at the door. Chere T()tissee~ Tu es · mon amie pour toujours. . Rien . neu.t tlQUS B A f\ • IH separer. on · ruuversatre •.. MUles Bisels,.P .J. JODI B.- Good .luck, in CABARET · tonight!! l Break a leg kid.dol! Your adoring fans, ·~ Mare & June To MGsk, Dangerous,. and · Wildwoman: Congratulati~>n-s on a j@b\mll done! To the freshman who is taking my ~er to tlle Si:Jpna ··Chi Sweetheart dance this weekend;, just remember! BtG BROTHER IS AL\WAYS WATCHING!! ·'. C. C. and . D.S.P •. -Tbanks for the midnight attack!'!, ~------------ Bu~Glad you're back to your old. self!!.~ Proceeds will go to the National Hemophilia Foundation and National Dystania Foundation. Costume theme: Wild, Wild, West. CHI PSI'S 18th· ANNUAL CHARITY PARTY Saturday, May 1st at 10:00 P.M. , TO BENEFIT: 'The National Hemophilia Foundation and The National Dystonia Found~tion Costume: Wild, Wild, West ADVANCE TICKETS $2.00 AT THE DOOR $3.00 TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE LODGE FREE BEER AND PUNCH CABARET AND A LIVE BAND featuring: THE KIDZ Ob J()Qnnet you're such a Wise character, but wbicb one's the switch? GARY CHADICK-I WANT YOU!!!! I! 11 Liebchen--Do we have anything planned for this Friday? I can't remember. (Ha, Ha, only kidding!) I love you. s-so whats up? From one friend to another ... any things p~ible. I'm game. (titter· titter) The lady is waiting. Care for a w(l}k in the gardens? HQw about an egg roll? ru grow my hair, wen maybe not. But ... Love., R Paul, Thanks for all you're help. In our own ways, we both reached the half way pnin~this week. Gnod luck. R Guys, it was a very long week, thanks, Viv, Fe, Crol~ Sue, and everone!! You're the best. Benson-. could you give a m~ssage to Sir R,? Where do we go from here? rd prefer the castle or the yacht. LoveLadyR. Dear Rick K- A shlcere wish for a happy HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! With Love, 'A FRIEND Caro, I got a fetter from my Italian Count. He said some \'things change, some things get better, and some do both. Antythings possible. What do you think? A&K(?) You seem to be confused. Too bad-you deserve it for hanging up on us. Get your facts straight-the ta~ is reproducing-not us! Don t call ~us· we'll call you. After all, we DOhaveyour number, 867-5309. J,J,S, M&G Just you wait Bo-rn sail the seven seas if that's what it takes, but I'll be there to .LAUGH tn my gut explodes! ! l With .friendS like you, asshole .. • Nonetheless, I love you, Chip. . Submit Your ' Mother's Day Personals Now! Arts & Science Majors! All dressed up, with nowhere to go?.- lt' s not too late to think about Northeastern's MS in Professional Accounting Program. This Program is a 15-month course of study designed for graduates of Arts and Sciences and other non- accounting majors. It's a full~time grad .. uate program divided into five quarters, preparing you for the CPA Examination and a career in public. accounting. The third quarter is an internsl;tip where you are employed by a leading public accounting firm such as Arthur Andersen, Alexander Grant, Coopers & Lybrand, Peat Marwick, or Price Waterhouse. In ad- dition to student loans and tuition scholarships, significant financial aid is provided by internship . earnings, which averaged $4,500 for the three month internship last year. You still have time to apply for the class beginning in June. No prior accounting course is required. Send for brochure, or call (617) 437-3244. I I I I I I I I ------------------- Please send more information about the MS in Accounting Program. Graduate Schoo) of Professional Accounting Northeastern UniveFsity w -~ I I I I 360 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 : Name ------------------------------~-- ' I l I ' 1 I' 1 Address I I I I City/State/Zip 1 I I 1 College Class 1 : 'II North~astern University : I ..... IN BOSTON : I Northeastern UniVersity Is an equal opportunitylaffirmativr ;action 1 I educational institu.Uon and •mployer. ..J ~-------------------------------- ..

OONCORDIENSIS, April 29, 1981J Page 18 e Ices ' ---~~~ '~ r • ....... ' ... I,. 0 ' . ' \~oo.\ b .. .. 1:--' .... .... .. S()nia ~ You look more like a CHIPMUNK than a COW!! Bllt I still l<>ve you anyway. (Even though Maypole would call. you Swoot Pig if he saw you). Fell better. Love always, One of your bestest friends, Bo Val-Happy Birthday h.> a terrific roommate. Love, Karen. LP14-(wel1, here It is!) I really enjoyed working (etc.) With· you too. Whenever you want another, just call: 867· 5309. (7 p.m. Sunday?!) .. Love, LP12. RAT-In the real world even down-tQ-earth people goT-bird flying and consider it fun! GRK! Maria and Clare, l wish you would stop lusting after my little brother while he is here on a visit!! 1 Happy Birthday Amy, Peeny and I are going to take you out and we'll probably end up carrying you home again l ! Love, L.B.B. erso To the Sunburned Banana- Frozen Strawberries beat Lasagne anytime in my book! wen hav4;l a lot of them when th-e Christmas Tree takes us to th-e Suitcase Party. Keep it up and I Will too. D. Johns, III--you are a real cutie! I wish that you would be here next year so I could get to know you better. With love, a freshman pledge from Ohio with the initials T. E. W. DC...,I love men with dark brown curly hair. a beard, and with a strong sense of crudeness. You certainly have all of these. Piease pay more attention to me-you're great! With love, the blonde T.W. across the hall, Dearest Deltas-Drink ALBA much? I didn't know what I was starting. Now I've got a_bunch of addicts on my hands. Oh yeah-Thanks, Fag, for the use of your blender. It's ap- preciated. Delta love, 1(}..0 Dear Michael 9 Here's to 52 Sunday's ++++++++++++++! love you, Cyn Chere Toussee: Tu es · mon amie pour toujours. Rien peut nous separer. Bon Anniversaire! l ! MillesBises-P.J. JODI B.- Good luck in CABARET tonight!! l Break a leg kiddol! Your adoring fans. Mare&June To Mosk, Dangerous, and · Wildwoman: Congratulations on a job·well done! To the freshman who is taking my sister to the Sigma Chi Sweetheart dance this weekend; just remember; BIG BROTHER IS ALWAYS WATClllNG!! c.c. and D.S.P.-Thanks for the midnight attack! 1 _......_ ___________ _ Buds-Glad you're back to your old self! ! ...,s- Perl-Happy Birthday! 1 Delta Love Always, Sue - 011 TQe Greek froQt Delta Gamma Reminder Hurry! Deadlines are drawing near! Organize your team of ten for the upcoming Delta Gamma Olympics, May 22, 1982. Ask ymu RA' s for in- formation concerning requirements so you won't be sorry you missed out on all the fun. Derby Day Attention Union women; the 14th annual Sigma Chi Clam- bake and Derby Day Com- petition will soon be upon us .. The competition provides t~ams with a chance to do something charitable for the under- privileged: Derby Day teams should consist of at least 10 women. Scoring of the competition is based on raffle sales, Derby chase, quarter bounce, and the events held at the Clambake. Money raised by your raffle sales will be donated to a local charity in the team's name. Hurry! Organize a team and call us to register. The deadline is May 1st. Contact George Cholakis or Rick Russell at 382- 9582. Chi Psi Charity Party Chi Psi's 18th annual Spring Charity Party will be held on Sat. May 1st at 10:00 p.m. There will be food available along with free beer and punch. There will also be a cabaret downstairs and a live band featuring The Kidz. Tickets are $2.00 in ad· vance and $3.00 at the door. Proceeds will go to the National Hemophilia Foundation and National Dystania Foundation. Costume theme: Wild, Wild, West. CHI PSI'S 18th ANNUAL CHARITY PARTY Saturday, May 1st at 10:00 P.M. TO BENEFIT: The National Hemophi.l ia Foundation and The National Dystonia Foundation Costume: Wild, Wild, West ADVANCE TICKETS $2.00 AT THE DOOR $3.00 TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE LODGE FREE BEER AND PUNCH CABARET AND A LIVE ~-r BAND featurit:lg: THE KIDZ ·· ·... . . . I . .·;..\ -!...' Oh Joanne, you're such a wise character, hut which one's the switch? go from here? I'd prefer the castle or the yacht. U>ve Lady R. Dear Rick K- GARY CHADCCK-I WANT YOU!!!!!!!! A sincere wish for a happy HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! Liebct:len--Do we have anything planned for this Friday? I can't remember. (Ha, Ha, only kidding l ). I love you. With Love, A FRIEND . 8-S<l wbats up? From one friend to aMtller . . . any things possible. I'm game. (titter- titter) The lady is waiting. Care for a walk in the gardens? How about an egg roll? I'll grow my hair, well maybe not. But ... Love., R Caro, I got a letter from my Italian Count. He said some \things change, some things get better, and some do both. Antythings possible. What do you think? Paul, Thanks for all you're help. In our own ways, we both reached the half way point.this week. Good luck. R A&K(?) You seem to be confused. Too had-you deserve it for hanging up on us. Get your facts straight--the tape is reproducing ... not us! Don't call ,us, we'll call you. After all, we DO have your number, 867--5309. J,J,S, M&G Guys, it was a very long week, thanks, Viv, Fe, Crol, Sue, and everone! 1 You're the best. Benson, could you give a message to Sir R.? Where do we Just you wait Bo-I'll sail the seven seas if that's what it takes, . but I'll be there to .LAUGH til my gut explodes!! ! With friends like you, asshole .. • Nonetheless, I love you, Chip. Submit Your Mother's Day Personals Now! Arts & Science Majors! All dressed up, with nowhere to go?- It's not too late to think about Northeastern's MS in Professional Accounting Program. This Program is a 15-month course of study designed for graduates of Arts and Sciences and other non- accounting majors. It's a full-time grad- uate program divided into five quarters, preparing you for the CPA Examination and a career in public accounting. The third quarter is an internship where you are employed by a leading public accounting firm such as Arthur Andersen, Alexander Grant, Coopers & Lybrand, Peat Marwick, or Price Waterhouse. In ad- dition to student loans and tuition scholarships, significant financial aid is provided by internship earnings, which averaged $4,500 for the three month internship last year. You still have time to apply ' for the class beginning in June. No prior accounting course is required. Send for brochure, or call (617) 437-3244. Please send more information about the MS in Accounting Program. Graduate School of Professional Accounting Northeastern University 360 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 w Name ----------------------------------- Address City/State/ Zip ------------------- College -------------Class ___ __ --, I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I e Northeastern University i ..... IN BOSTON 1 I Northeastern Umverslty as an equal opportunuy aff~rmatlv• action 1 I educational institution and employer _J ~--------------------------------

·•. Page.14 CONCORD IENSIS, April !9} 1982 ~rts & Culture SENIOR ·fLING MEETING TODAY Stars, Tunes and a Laser All .those interested in becoming involved in SENIOR FLING '82, there is an . organizational meeting TODAY, Thursday,· in Strauss lounge at 4:30 pm AU ideas will be heard. DeHnitely. No contribution is too sma:ll. Seriously. {you don't have to be a senior to get involved) Jethro Tull :By.BOBFOX Arts Editor Last weekend ended the run -of the laser light show Laser Rhythm at the Schenectady Planetarium. The show was produced by laserist Alan Jackson and members of the Planetarium Sta.ff. Richard Monda, a recent Uni'on graduate and Planetariwn Staff member, .is one of ·those in- volved in the production. Laser Rhythm is quite a bit smaller than other laser shows, notably Laserium and Laser Rock. The Broadsword ~end The Beast By TIM EMSWILER Staff If you are one of those people who think that the band Jethro Tull takes its name from a member of the band, then you sllould move on to the next article. If, on the other hand, you are one of the rare people who realizes that Jethro Tull still exists after all these years, then this may interest you. The band has just released their latest, The Broadsword and The Beast, on the Chrysalis label. Interestingly enough, this album makes a grand total of 18 releases by Tull, if you count a live album and two greatest hits collections, since their inception somewhere back in the Dark Ages .of the early to mid-60's. Since then, the band has un- dergone quite a few changes. Of the five musicians on this album, only one, Ian Anderson, is a survivor of the original group. Martin Barre on electric and acoustie guitar is the next oldes1 Tull veteran: he joined the group for its second album. \A while the remaining two musicians are newcomers to the band. Peter..,John Vettese plays piano and synthesizers, while Gerry Conway takes care of the percussion. Between the title,. the cover painting, and the calligraphy of the lyric sheet, one would think this was the sound track for some Tolkien-style swords-and- sorcery movie. Which, for- tunately, is -far from the truth. The songs on this album deal with various topics, a couple of them being contemporary subjects. (As opposed to \A\, which dealt entirely with contemporary subjects, or Songs From Tbe Wood, which dealt entirely with British folk stories.) The song \Beastie which at first seems to be about a monster, is actually about t)le evil within all men. \Clasp\ is a song ~;~bout the impersonality of life today, and is one of the best songs, in terms of both music and lyrics on the album. Ian Anderson gets in a few political jabs on this album; for example, these lines from \Clasp\: \Synthetic chiefs with frozen smiles, holding unsteady courses, grip the· reins of history, high on their battle horses.\ Radio stations seem to have picked \Fallen On Hard Times\ as the cut to play from this album, which is un- derstandable in the light of its upbeat rock beat and trite political commentary. At least Ian is diplomatic about his sniping ; in one line he ad- dresses the Prime Minister, and in the next, the President. \Flying Colours\ may also see some exposure on the radio, with its rich keyboards, searing gUitar leads, and fine vocals. \Slow Marching Band\ is weak as far as the lyrics go, but Ian Anderson's vocals sound so n'ice that you don't care what he's singing. Ian's voice is one of his many strong points, and a little less electronic ·tampering with the vocals would have given the album in general a purer sound. \Broadsword which opens Side Two, is also a special song. Between the lyrics and the organ-Jike synthesizer, you get the feeling that this is a modernized version of some ancient hymn; and the elec- tronic choir at the end of the song clinches the image. Nice lead guitar also contributes greatly to what I feel is the best song on the a blum. ''Pussy Willow,\ however, is probably the weakest ·cut on the album, and the sexual connotations found in the lyrics are rather embarrassinJ!. \Watching Me Watching You,\ an excellent number, has a strong emphasis on electronics and syncopation, and represents a return to the then-pr()gressive style of Thick As A Brick and Passion Play. \Seal Driver\ is the rocker on this album, but its intricacies of rhythm and the interplay between musicians sets it far ahead of the run-of-the-mill radio fare. \Cheerio\ is very pretty to listen to, with corny lyrics and melodic flute, but at 69 seconds long there's not much time to enjoy it. Ian's vocals on this tune are a11gmented by a voice which ·Sounds like a robot from a 50's sci-fi flick, which is an added irritation. The sound of the album as a whole is very electronic, much like 'A\ although without the electric violin of Eddie Jobson, which incidentally made ''A\ so distinctive. The Broadsword and The Beast, however, is much easier to listen to than \A\. Martin Bar~e's guitar is musi~al rather than biting, and totally unoffensive. Ian's voice is still in top shape, his songwriting is at peak form, and he has a tight band behind him. It all comes down to this: if you don't like new Tull, you won't like this one either. If you liked \A\, you'll like this one a lot. If you don't own any Tull albums, this shouldn't be your first. (Second or third, for sure. ) And, if you liked all 17 albums before this one, like I did, then you probably have this one alre~dy. PARENT'S WEEKEND Union College Men and Women's Glee Clubs present Our Folic Heritage Saturday, May 8, 8:00 p.m. in Memori·al Chapel i ADMISSION: STUDENTS· FACULTY FREE PARENTS GENERAL PUBLIC: $2.00 ·' What it lacks in size and · ex- travagance, however, is made up for by the smooth professionalism of the presentation. · Schenectady Museum's Planetarium is small by anyone's standardS, and the chairs aren't the padded swivel jobs found in larger planetariwns, but when the lights ge out and the music begins, none of that matters any more. To a sound track that includ~s Genesis, Boston, Rick Wakeman, Phil Collins Vangelis and Elton John's classic ''Funeral For a Friend\ as a finale, . the stars and planets embark on a swirling journey. The laser first appears ·as a little red dot, and suddenly .the screen and the stars are secondary, and the laser light is the main attraction. The barrage of designs and forms seems endless. From one moment to the next, the designs change again and again, in- verting, reversing, expanding and on and on. Laser shows are entertaining to say the least and this one is no exception. ' Considering the results, the apparatus is relatively simple. Only one laser is used, a 5mWatt Heliiun Neon Laser, which explains the red color: the type of gas used· in a laser determines the color of the light produced. The laser is reflected off two moveable mirrors which are controlled by a small Radio Shack computer. The :programs in the computer designate the movements of the mirrors, thereby producing ·the designs. Control over the laser beam is furthered by means of an electronic synthesizer, which allows for frequency and am- plitude control;. the synthesizer is manually controlled. Jackson and Monda are en,.. terprising young scientists, doing :the best with what they have. They maintain that their . limiting factor is money. The Radio Shack TRS-80 is only an eight bit computer. Plans are in the making to buy a sixteen-bit ...... IBM in the near future, a move wbich would increase ~ignificantly the system's capabilities. It is doubtful that this show will ever become as big as Laserlum or Laser Rock, but it is a good show and well wortb seeing. Special group rates are in effect even though the sbow has closed to the public for this season. They are bringing the setup to a party at Sig Phi this Saturday, and will be returning to the Sphenectady Planetariwn next spring. Mother's Day is Sunday, May 9. \:· : -: . Send flowers to that girl back home. This Mother's Day, remember Morn with an FTD* Big Hug® Bouquet. A beautiful arrangement of fresh flow- ers in a distinctive Ceramic Pot. Just stop by your near- est FTD® Florist before May 9, and send the FTD Big Hug Bouquet. It's a special Mother's Day gift the girl back home won't ever forget. Send your love with special car.e •. The FTD Big Hug Bouquet is generally available for less thar:~ $18.50. As independent retaile~s. FTD Florists set their own prices. Individual pnces m~ vary. Serv1ce charges and delivery may be additional. r 1982 Florists' Transworld Delivery Association. ®Registered tr<:tdemark of Floris~· Transworld Delivery Association. *A cooper- atively owned floral Wire and membership service. MBA Program A l.imited number of vacancies remain for the Fall W82 MBA program in Health Systems Admlh istration at Union College Students interested in careers In Hospital-Health Services Ad· ministration should contact Professor Schneller for a personal interview by May 6, 1982. Fellowships may be available for ex- ceptionally well qualified students regardless .of undergraduate major. Call for an appointment. ' Health Studies Center I nstltute of Administration and Management Bail'ey Hall, Union College Schenectady, NY 12308 370-6238 An1 As NETT from 1 very rash (Give WherE alien~ sex? ( Wher• power rock some realiz of tb tend rathe au die nearl In \pop' term musi· the 51 extin like Fing• dane don't lyric dose velm Wild Mar Hurr corrr than n fori. ( ( ( fin1 the Col tin as qu; us be• de! of thE di: pr fe• J. Ki C; pi b.: m tll si R D hi t< tE A Sl ~ ( 1j ( I

} t l rtBA ege Ad ~>nat ex- uate CONCORDIENSIS, April !9, 1982 Page 115 ~rts & Culture Annette's E.P.- ByVADIME. Staff As the last note of AN· NETTE 's self -titled E. P. faded from my speakers, I was still very puzzled. Where are the rash political statements? (Give me Washington Bullets) Where are the songs about alienation, death, and explicit sex? (Joy Division, X, anyone?) Where are the heavy-handed power chords? (Do you. love rock and roll, baby?) Then, something clicked, and I realized that ANNETTE is one of those, er, pop groups that tend to be overlooked by the rather snobbish \new wave\ audiences. (It took the Go-Go's nearly three years to catch on) In the late 70's - early 80's, \pop\ became a derogative term 'for \silly unimportant\ music., and the delightful pop of the 50's and SO's almost became extinct. Fom time to time, gems like the B-52's and the Fingerprintz appear, so we can dance this mess around. If you don't think that light-hearted lyrics infused with a healthy dose of R&B can work mar· velously well, check out either Wild Planet or Distinguishing Marks. Anyways, even the Human League has more in common with the Supremes than with the Pistols. I have bee,n waiting very long for ANNETTE's vinyl offering, and it was certainly well worth waiting for. Every song on this 5-song E.P. (4 are original) is agem. \You keep me hanging on\ is a classic Supremes song (remember them?), done so well that it does not lose any meaning in the translation from 60's to 80'.s. Annette Genovese's plaintive vocals drove the point home, as Irwin Menken (bass) and Scott Hilliard (drums) ,provided a solid rhythm foundation for Mike Dellario's (keyboard) and Lex Hamilton's (guitar) riCh milodic textures. In ''Heartless\ and \Half of Me\ (written by Della rio), Annette comes off as a quirky, coy individual. Particularly in \Heartless she is a real tease. \I'm gonna take you for everything you got -- I'm heartless.\ Unwillingness to engage in a \permanent\ relationship is further ex- pressed in \Half of Me.\ \Half of me -now belongs to you,\ but then \Don't let me fall in love again - with you.\ However, both \Murder One\ (Genovese, Dellario) and \Stop!\ expose another side of Annette's persona. Now, she is just a vulnerable woman, hopelessly in love. In \Murder One,\ Annette has to deal with the loss of her lover, and this beautifully sad song is my favorite cut on the E.P. \Stop\ Change In Time Change Of Pace ByVADIME. Staff Close your eyes, snap your fingers - and away you go, to the land of \cool\ jazz. The Coffeehouse wa.s caught in a time warp on Friday, April 23, 0 as the extraordinary jazz quartet CHANGE IN TIME took us back to the days of the beatniks. The atmosphere was definitely conducive to all sorts of existential discussions, and their playing was delightfully disjuncted and dissonant, producing that \zonked out\ feel. CHANGE IN TIME features J. T Presslaff on sax, Mark Kirby on perctission, David Casey on a~coustic and electric piano, and Arthor on string bass. Arthor deserves a .special mention, as he played some of tbe best bass licks I have heard since Stanley Clark's in RETURN TO FOREVER. Also, David Casey played some very beautiful improvisations, and together with J.T., created rich textures to complement Arthor's and Mark's rhythm section. The band started off with \Antique Delight,\ \Munk and \When Elephants Fight Only the Grass is Destroyed,\ which was written by Arthor. At one point during this tune, Mark Kirby ventured into the audience armed with a con· traption he calls the \hosephone\ - a 6-foot piece of plastic tubing with a sax mouth· piece, With his \hosephone Mark reproduced the sound of an angry elephant, much to the delight of the crowd. Eat your heart out, Adrian Belew. Next came \Dolphin Dance,\ a slow, poignant piece, done very tastefully. The band picked up the pace in \Conference for the Birds,\ which was possibly the best number they did. Fast, upbeat tempo, combined with beautiful soloing made \Con- ference for the Birds\ a perfect closing for the first set. The second set was just as distinguished, featuring \Monky Bizznezz,\ \Pee Wee,\ an~ ''Never Again Trust a Bitch Animal.\ This last tune was particularly interesting for a couple of reasons. If any of you have ·.been in the men's bathroom in the basement -of Bard College, you might have seen \Never Ag~in Trust a Bitch Animal\ chiseled on one of the walls, and the tune ex- pressed the bitterness we all feel once in a while. Actually, if there is such a thing as jazz- punk fusion - that was it. \Pee Wee,\ written by Tony Williams, should get an award for being the best piece of sex music ever written, and DaVid Casey played a very inspired rendition of this classic. The closing number was ap- propriately titled \What It Is,\ and those who were there should have no doubts. It's jazz; it's CHANGE IN. TIME. I must admit that I rarely listen to jazz, but that will change. Anyone who wants to share the joy and sadness that is jazz will surely be rewarded. (Dellatio) is a very appropriate ending, as Annette reaffirms her individuality. \Stop - can't you .see what you are doing? - Stop.\ Some of you might complain that ANNETTE's lyrics read like a soap opera script. Well, that's o.k. with me 'cause I'm tired of all the lytics that read like the Communist Manifesto. Oh, y.eah, the album is great, so buy it. Kenne·t.h Burke: CONCERT I'N:FO ASIA · On Tour ASIA evolved from the points where the great bands of fhe 1970's left off. AI I of the members were key ingredients in the prog.ressive rock movement that shaped the music of the previous twelve years. AS lA is Steve Howe, former guitarist of YES, Carl Palmer, former drummer with EMERSON, LAKE & PALMER, Geoff Downes from the BUG G LES and John Wettar who .played with KING CRIMSON and ROXY MUSIC. Asia will be p:lay ing: New York City .. S-2 .. The Garden Buffalo .. 5-3 .. Klein hans Music Ha II I ' Poughkeepsie .. S-6 \Man of Mass Democracy'' By PAUL GROSSMAN Writer and ·critic Kenneth Burke, hailed by many as \the universal man of modern, mass democracy,\ will visit Union College today, Thursday, April 29. His presentation, called \What happened when story was born,\ will begin at 8:00 in Social Stiences 016. All persons interested are welcome to at- tend. He is a critic for the ad· venturous; you take from him what you can get and only later realize how much it was. - Robert Martin Adams, New York Review of Books ( 1966). He was born Kenneth Duva Burke on May 5, 1897 in Pitt- sburgh, Pennsylvania. . He drapp.ed out of Columbia University because he could not take the advanced courses that he wanted. After settling in New York's Greenwich Village, his poems and essays were soon being regularly published. In 1943, at age 46, Burke first began teaching at Bennington College until he retired in 1961. He has since received many honorary doctorates and has been a visitor at such schools as Harvard, Penn State, and Weslyan. When not \on the road,\ Burke returns to his beloved Andover farmhouse where he lives alone. Extremely fond of his rural ex:istence, Burke has been described as \probably the last major American author to have read mostly by kerasene light.\ Last year, Burke was the subject of an in-depth article by Richard Kostelanetz in the New York Times Book Review. Kostelanetz describes Burke: His metaphors are outrageous - who else in an · essay about John Keats and his Grecian urn would compare a literary critic to a radio com- mentator broadcasting a blow- by-blow description of a prizefight. \He is intellectually un- predictable, even to those who think they know him well.\ \As a critic of literature, Burke believes that it is better to trust the tale than the teller. \ The poet Howard Nemerov described Burke by saying, ''His mind cannot stop ex- ploding.\ Burke's extended essays represent the focus of his literary criticism. The essays deal with classic authors like Shakespeare and Goethe and even Hitler's \Mein Kampf.\ Burke's presentation at Union will deal with his strong stress upon speech as a motivating factor in human relations. This stress is matched by an equally strong behaviorist strand in his speculations. For this reason, he is especially concerned about emphasizing the respects in which he differs with behaviorism as a terminology for the defining of the human animal. \Burke's writing has provoked outspoken responses, both in praise and in blame,\ reports the most recent edition of American Writers .. ''Indeed, Kenneth Burke is probably the most controversial literary figure of the past fifty years in America ... Leaving a lecture by Burke, one may hear, 'A superb system!' from one side and 'Sheer chaos!' from the other. From a single, exasperated idolater of Burke, one hears him decried as 'mad' and lauded as 'genius,' even in one and the same sentence.\ Bt\rke is a member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters, the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. His awards include the Brandeis University Creative Arts Awards Com- memorative Award for Notable Achievements in the Arts (1967), the National Council of the Arts (1967), the IngraJ!l Merril Foundation Award in Literature (1970), the Award for Contribution to the Humanities (from the American Academy of Arts and Science, 1977) and most recently, the American Book Awards National Medal for Literature. Burke's works include \Counter-statement\ (1931), \The Philosophy of Literary Form\ (1941), and \Language as Symbolic Action\ (1966) as well as \Collected Poems: 1915- 1967 .\ His essays have been published in many important anthologies on literary criticism, and Burke himself has been the Subject of more than a dozen critical studies. Burke recently told an in- terviewer, \What I am proudest of is that I do the only thing I ever wanted to do. I just want to go on with the goddam stuff as long as I can.\ \Probablv the most ·controversial literary figure of the past fifty years in America.\ - American Writers \A critic for the adventurous.\ - New York Review of Books \His mind canno.t stop exploding. \ - Howard Nemerov THE UNION COLLEGE MINERVA COMMITTEE PRESENTS Celebrated Writer & Literary Critic ~ENNETH BURKE What Happened When Story Was Born Date: Thursday, April 29th Time: B:OO P.M. Place: Social Sciences 016 ALL ARE INVITED ADMISSION IS FREE

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, April 29, 1982 ~rts & Culture F. Lee Bailey To Speak On F.riday, Ma) 7th, Speakers Forwn is proud to be presenting F. Lee Bailey. Mr. Bailey is one of America's .foremost criminal lawyers. He has been the defense lawyer in some of the most t•xciting trials of the twentieth century. His articulate manner, knack for charming juries and judges, and exhaustive in- vestigations have helped him win acquittals for such clients as George Elderly, who was accused .for murdering his wife. He also represented the ''Boston Strangler,\ Captain Ernest L. :vi edina, Sam Shepherd, Patricia Hearst, and most recently, nimself. In addition to his skill as a trial lawyer, Bailey has established himself as an author. Amongst his works are books on his cases, being a defense attorney, and flying. F. Lee will be talking on his eJq>eriences in representing some of the top criminals in America, the field of law, as he has observed it, and his other interests, such as writing. Cabaret Gets Respect By JENNIFER P ASTON and GLENNS. KRUTOFF If you weren't at Cabaret last Thursday, April 22, you were most certainly in the wrong place. As usual, super-talented M.C. Sam Di Dio displayed his comical talents in a truly hysterical and accurate im- personation .of renowned comedian Rodney Dangerfield. Talent is, by its nature, purely subjective. However, in the case of Anna Tucker, sub- jectivity is surely unanimous. Anna's performance was reminiscent of the famed song stylists .of the 1940's. Her songs ranged from ''Honeysuckle Rose\ to \The Lady is a Tramp't and \Moondance.\ The audience stood, en masse, to cheer her on during her en- core of \New York, New York.\ She gave a truly fine per- formance in a compact and very entertaining showcase of her talents. The superjor entertainment Parties Surveyed: Success Is Expected · continued- as \'Patty and the Trustbusters\ topped off the evening with their renditions of such hits as ':-That'll Be thE! Day,\ \It's Over,\ \Jazzman .as well as a medley of Chicago tunes. Patty Winter (vocals)., Joel Beckerman (piano), Barb Bailey (flute), Chris Delsignore (guitar), and Chuck Cohen (drums) kept the audience cheering throughout their performance. Each member of the band enjoyed his own moment in the spotlight. The thunderous applause indicatep that the success of. the band was certainly not a fluke: The combination of expert talents had a beautiful effect. Hopefully the Cabaret stage willbe graced with the presence of \Patty and the Trustbusters\ again. By BETSY MODES'T Staff Natalie Barandes' production of \Student Bodies\ is reaching completion and the results of this experimental creation in theatre are highly successful. The improvisational play is Barandes' senior project with the arts department and the innovative direction she has taken with it is fascinating. The script was developed by tape recording improvised dialogue, transforming it to the written page, editing the material, and organizing a finished product. Barandes discovered this to be an almost impossible process to complete in the short time allowed. But the cast and crew are incredibly dedicated people, and the play has solidified into its final form in only five weeks. First week of this term it was merely a concept of the director. The play is an analysis of social life and implements Union experiences to explicate attitudes of today's un- dergraduates. There are four \core\ characters played· by Natalie Barandes, Elizabeth Baker, Rob Quish, and Adam Storke. The two girls, Carrie and Jennifer, are good friends and also roommates. Com- plementing the female protagonists are Billy and Jason, who are also friends and roommates. Each of these characters has an alter-ego character in the play who follows them around. These \alter-egos played by Leslie Nadel, Demetra Pontisakos, Norman Birnbach, and Scott Bloom, represent the \core\ characters' consciences. What they have to say results in comedy with serious un- dertones. Barandes calls the remaining members of the cast, \the band,\ and they are played by Sally Jacobs, Ira Baron, and Joel Beckerman. (Beckerman also wrote the musical score.) \The Band\ is representative of the rest of the campus com- munity. The script houses a play within a play. In the opening and closing scenes, the audience is familiarized with the costume designer, writers, and stage managers. As a result, the play shows the audience the process involved in creating this play as much as it unfolds a plot. The relationships of males and ·females on campus essentially constitute the plot of \Student Bodies.\ The scenes which take place in familiar Union locations are easily identifiable. The play begins and ends in the mailroom and in between, there are pre-party scenes in the dorm rooms, party scenes, and post~party scenes. Before the party. the men and their alter-egos discuss their expectations for the party. Similarly, the women and their alter-egos discuss their ex- pectations. Who are they going to see? Who will they end up with? Will they sleep alone that night? Will they be caught in another awkward situation? Or will they get what they want? What do they want? The ex- pectations of males and females are basically similar but the approaches they take are dif- ferent. Essentially, as an analysis of social life at Union, the basic dilemma is in meeting people and in the ways of dealing with them when the encounter is actualized. The party scene is climactic. There are all types at this party, from drunks to quiet singles. These characters enter into varying situations from a \long talk\ to a \one night stand.'' By the endof the night, all seem to \bum out\ as they return to their rooms and discuss the events of the night with their friends. Are they afraid to be sensitive? Are they afraid to be physical? Do they submit to moral pressures or do they do what they want to do when they want to do it? The fact that these people are able to express themselves freeiy, can work out their problems with . one another, and that they have each other as friends, emerges as· an important element of the plot. Friendships developed at college are special and the confidence which one develops as a result of having close friends here is viewed as ex- tremely important. \Student Bodies\ is the type of play that every student on this campus can appreciate. It is revealing but it is not shocking. It deals with sensitive issues on campus and as a result is appealing in nature. The type of theatre which Barandes employs for her production is purely ex- perimental which is another inviting feature'. It is a presentation on the creation of contemporary American theatre and consequently supplies a new outlet for student expression on ·campus. The play opens Thursday, May 6th at 8 p.m. and everyone is encouraged to bring their parents during the weekend. (The language is tame.) Friday's performance will begin at 8 p.m. and Saturday's will begin at 9 p.m. The curtain will rise the following weekend, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, May 13, 14, and 15, at 8 p.m. each night. Tickets are $2.00 for students and $3.00 for all others. They are on sale at the Carnegie Box Office and at. the Nott. Barandes hopes that everyone will come and par- ticipate in this unique production. It is something whieh each Union student should really be able to ap- preciate and enjoy. Anna Tucker gave a fine oerformance at Cabaret. In a previous review of Joel Beckerman's performance -it stated, \there are 88 keys on a piano, thus 88 reasons why Joel Beckerman was terrific.\ This evening the man outdid hiniself. In the first act ·be expertly accompanied Anna on her tour through American jazz. Let it be known that playing jazz piano is no easy feat, but J()el made it look simple as his nimble finge:rs flew over the keys. In his second appearance on the stage that evening, playing keyboards and singing with the \Trustbusters he once again displayed his diverse talents. Joel is the epitome of a true performer. He is professional multi-talented, full of energy, exciting, sp,irited, and most importantly he truly enjoys what he does. And he does it so well! Thursday night's show was exceptional. If all the Cabarets were as good as last week's, tickets would be sold out even faster than they are now! The Union College Arts Department presents Everything you've always wanted·to know about college students but were afraid to .•. STUDENT BQDIES Written & Directed by Natalie Barandes An Experimenta I Musica I Play Created & Performed by College Students A perfect show for you and your parents to see together on Parent 1 s Weekend , PERFORMANCES: May 6, 7, 8 and May 13, 14; 15 at the Not1 Memorial Theater TICKm: Available beginning Friday at Carnegie Hall $2.00 student $3.00 non-student c CIJ ~ <0 \C c :.:::i >- .c 0 .... 0 .J: 0. - Th had·! losin, Thur Sien .prev play1 It wa Unio coun by I batti Petr1 Kell~ the t of .a tivel gam batti the t of th Sa RPI StOtl siste Sien wert high saw1 seve runs bott1 Tl by{ to 1 tici) Hat Altl fier aSS I fiel1 sco: A mel fine sec in (28 pla dur pre in I t mi1 evE sec me

c ClJ ~ m \'C c :J >- ..0 0 .... 0 ..c 0. CONOORDIENSIS, April S9, 198$3 Page 17 Softball Loses, Now 3-2 . By LINDA GUTIN Sports Staff The women's softball team had a bit of a setback this week, losing iits last two games. On Thursday, the team traveled to Siena, a team they had previCJusly beaten 6-4, and playeda tough .game, losing 7-3. It was :a bitter, cold day but the Union team kept together on all counts with consistent pitching by Dina Pliotis and' beautiful batting by Kelly Liese, Peggy Petro and Kirsten Peterson. Kelly,. Peggy and Kirsten lead the team with batting averages of .315, .300 and .307, respec- tively. A virtually errorless game, Siena's overpowering batting ability managed to deat the Union women their first loss of the season.- Sat11rday's game against RPI, however, was a different story. Instead of a tight con- sistent game, like the two with Siena, this time both teams were plagued with errors. A high scoring game, the lead see- sawed a few times, and in the seventh inning RPI got four runs to make the total15-13, The bottolll <lf the seventh, Union's last chance to tie or win, was a confusing one to say the least. The batters came through with hits and it seemed as though Union mi:ght pull it out. Unfortunately, a technica'l out, taking a runner off of third at a crucial point, and the sub- sequent loss of momentum, made for a disappointing, if not aggravating end to a game that Union could have, should have, and would have won. The out at third was contested by the Union coach, Mary Gillespie, to no avail and the game was finished under the shadow of a formal protest. The results of the protest will not be known for awhile, but it doesn't look hopeful for Union. There may have been some errors, but there were also some exciting. arid spectacular plays executed by the Union team on Saturday. For in· stance, there was intens·e batting by Dina Pliotis, Kelly Liese, Peg Petro, Brenda Hugick and a well-hit homerun .by Carol Wrenn. JoAnne Dolan at third base, Barb Bailey at second, catcher Carolyn Bigda and Peggy Layden in rightfield Track ·noes Well ByJ.G. Sports Staff ThEtwomen's track team, led by coach Russ Ebbets, traveled to Oneonta Saturday to par- ticipate in the fifth annual Hartwick Invitational meet. Although competition was fierce, combined efforts assured them fourth place in a field of eleven, with a team score of 39 points. Andrea Gr(!if sprinted 100 meters to finish third in the finals with a' time of 13.4 seco11ds. She took fourth place in tbe 200 meter dash finals (28.:29) as well. An injury plagued Audrey Churchill during the 200 meter trials and prevented her from taking part in the rest of the meet. Union picked up points in. the midde distance and distance events with Janice Glidden securing ·third place in the 800 metEr dash (2:30.4) and Inge Stockman winning the 5000 meter run with an impressive time of 18:46.3. Union tracksters Kathy Healy and Mei Ching Tse performed well for the Dutchwomen in the 800 and 1500 meter runs. Additional points were gained in the field events by Janice Glidden who threw 29.62 meters in the javelin and 2G.32 meters in the discus for fourth and .fifth place, respectively. JoAnne Feeney, Donna Greenfield, and Beth Chauncey were also tough C!)mp~titors representing the Dutch women. Tonight Danielle Cherniak and Janice-Glidden leave for the New York State AIAW Track and Field Championship meet. Danielle will be entering the lOk and Janice will be competing in the heptathlon. (For some of us weekends weren't made for Michelob-or maybe there's still time!) This Week in WOMEN'S SPORTS 'Today Softball vs. St. Rose 3:30 Friday Softba II vs. New Paltz 3:30 Saturday Softball vs. Russell Sage 11: ~0 Women's Track--NYSAIAW meet at St. Johns Monday Women 1 S Lacrosse A&B vs. Midc;:llebury 3: 00 Softball vs. Skidmore 4:00 Wednesday Softball {2) -at Albany HURRY! Deadlines are drawing near Organize your team of 1 0 for the -upcoming DELTA GAMMA OLYMPICS 0111 May 22nd. Ask your R.A. for details so you won't be sorry you missed out on all the fun! all strengthened Union's game . Fielding-wise., shortstop Peg Petro won this week's purple heart award for her fearless playing. After the first three wins, the two recent losses could affect the awesome physical and mental psyche of the team, but they won't. The team has a lot of home games coming soon, starting today against St. Rose, Fdday vs. New Paltz, and on Saturday vs. Russell Sage. Come watch the team change a game that they could have, should have, and would have won to one they did win. Author's Note: There exists no ·one by the name of Leslie Gutin, to my knowledge at least, andi'm Linda Gutin. But it was a good article anyway, Leslie. Debbie Goldberg--Lacrosse keeps on fighting WOmen's Lacrosse Falters By SHARON P.EARL Sports Staff Women's lacrosse has had a tough week with four away games within six: days. They started it off with both varsity and JV squads at Williams. Coach Marty Morrison said they had played the best game of their season although they lost 6-11 to Williams' sharp team. The attack did a good job while the defense pressured the ball as well as protected their scoring area. Both teams were about equal in endurance and speed. Holly Howard was Union's high scorer with four goals and Sheryl Katz had two. On Friday the team traveled to Wells College and suffered-a 2-13 loss after the long ride. Union's first goal was by Holly Howard with an assist from Debbie Goldberg, and the second was from Sheryl Katz. The team did net play its best, perhaps due in part to the long ride and inadequate warm-up time. Although Union outskilled them, Wells was a quick team with good game sense. The women's lacrosse team took on the University of Rochester Saturday for U. of R. 's last game of the season. They lost 4-11, but played better than they did against Wells. Holly had three goals in this game and Sheryl had one. Union lost to a strong West Point team under pouring rain on Monday with a 3-6 score. We were ahead twice and tied three times with Holly Howard, Emily MonossQn, and Sheryl Katz · making the goals. West Point played a very disciplined game and was therefore able to interoept the ball and score. The varsity record now stands at 1-5 after four losses in a row. In overall scoring, Holly Howard now leads with 10 goals and one assist while Sheryl Katz also has 10 goals. Emily Mon'Osson follows with seven goals. The JV squad lost to Williams, 4-10, putting their record at 2·1. Williams' depth showed through in the skillfulness of their JV players. Emily Haft was responsible for three goals with one assist from Heidi Horak, and Janet Blum put the final goal in . Union's JV also lost to West Point with a score of 0-1, but they played very well. Fresh- man goalie·Chris Shaffer looked great in the cage with at least 20 saves. The opponents were an intense team, but fairly equal. Union's attack didn't shoot on goal as much as was needed, but they played a good game and kept their composure. The next game is on Monday when both varsity and JV will be playing Middlebury on the turf. Your support would be appreciatetl. THE WORLD IS YO · R CAMPUS -· AROUND THE WORLD: sails Sept. 8, 1982 from Seattle - Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, India, Israel, Egypt, Greece, Spain. AROUND TilE WORLp voyages a~e planned for 1983. Apply early. Sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh. More than 60 university courses, with in-port and voyage-related emphasis. Faculty from University of Pittsburgh and other leading universities, augmented by visiting area experts. Optional tours. including special tours into the People's Republic of China. available. Participation is open to qualified students from all accredited colleges and universities. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed. The S.S. Universe is fully air- conditiom:d. 18.000 tons. registered in Liberia and built in Amem:a. For a free color brochure, write: Semester at Sea, UCIS, University of Pltteburgh, Forbes Quadrangle, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, or eall toll free (800) 854.0195 (in California call (714) 771·6590~

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIB, April 139, 1982 Intramural Roundup INTRAMU:RAL BOXIN·G CHAM~P'IONSHIP - COMPU .. ED By DAVE PACE Sports Staff lntrampral Boxing The Intramural Department held the opeHing round of its annual boxing event last Thursday night. There were four exciting matches in all. The evening started off with Carl Aikens fighting Bill Nowak Aikens, the more experiences of the two, won a unanimous decision by a score of 120-99.5. The score was based on the ten point must system. The win- ner's strategy of distracting his opponent with a waving right hand while jabbing with the left worked effectively. The second fight of the night pitted Joe Cardino against Les Kennedy. This, too, was a unanimous decision as Kennedy won by a total score of 120-108. The match was close most of the way but Kennedy was abLe to connect OR a few more punches each round than Cardino. In both of these matches, it was the man who stood up best against the grueling fatigue of boxing that left the ring vic• torious. · In the upper division, the first fight matchd Brad Nicholson and Gary Wells. Nicholson came close to winning the title his freshihan year but was unable to compete last year due to an injury. Wells has superb talent in the martial arts and in kick boxing. The fight started at an extremely quick pace as Wells landed a few punches to Nicholson's head in the opening minute. The remainder of the round was dead even. The four judges gave the round to Wells by the cose score of 39-38.5. Nicholson kept his steady pace going in the next two rounds as Wells started to tire,_Brad won the second round on three of the four cards and on all four for the final round. Nicholson was declared the winner on a split decision, 118-112.5. The final fight ot the night matched freslunan Tim Devlin against two-time champion Jeff Feigelson. Feigelson had a tremendous advantage in height and reach. The fight started slowly as both fighters tried to feel out their opponents. Feigelson took a slight early advantage as he used his reach advantage by striking Devlin while still keeping his distance. With about twenty seconds to go in the first round, Devlin moved in on Feigelson. As he did, Feigelson saw an opening and threw a powerful right hook to Devlin's face. Dazed by the punch, Devlin fell to the floor but was on his feet before the ten count. The bell sounded soon after. In the opening seconds of the second round, Feigelson landed another strong punch into Devlin's face and sent him into the ropes. At this point referee John Montanile wisely stopped the fight. Feigelson was awarded a TKO victory. Jeff will fight Brad Nicholson tonight in a rematch of their battle two years ago when Feigelson barely ·· edged out Nicholson. In the other championship fight, Carl Aikens will go up against Les Kennedy. The action will start at 8:30 in Alumni gym. • • • Track Continued from page 19 and Dave Dellehunt competed in the Dartmouth Invitational on Sunday, April 25. Arnheiter ran 15:30 in the 5,000 meter, Mark Dunn fell just short of the state qualifying standard in the discus with a throw of 131'6\ and Dave Dellehunt ran 2:00.3 in the 800 meter run. The Dutchmen will battle archrival Albany State on Wednesday, April 23 and on Saturday, May 1, Union will compete in the Colgate Open. Don't forget that on Parent's Weekend (May 7 and 8) the Dutchmen will host the New York State Track and Field Championships, so support the Trackmen! JUST ARRIVED! The Off.icial 'SKELLAR RAT T~SHIRT suppliesandquantit>ies are limi.ted so get yours now before they're gone Available for $5.00 in the 'Skellar between the hours of 12 and 5 p.m. Intramural Game oftbe Week This week's softball game of the week was ,a, 'H' league game matching last year's champion Saratoga T&L against the always tough Delta Phi fraternity. B<ith teams were undefeated going into the game. Delta Phi opened the game quickly when Matt Feehan singled, was sacrificed to second by Mark Blumkin, and scored on a throwing error after Evan Kr:inick's single. Feellan then took the mound for Delta Phi and pitched three scoreless innings without allowing a hit. In the fourth inning, Dave Schumann started off a rally for the Greek squad by hitting a single to centerfield. Stephen Strunsky,. Dwight Moore, and Craig Bigelow followed with singles. These hits, combined with a costly throwing error, enabled Delta Phi to take a 5-0 lead. Saratoga T&L finally started things rolling in the fourth in- ning. Pitcher Steve Tuckrnan started off t:lle inning with a single to right centerfield. A.fter Darrel Seife flew out deep to center, Seth Orringer popped up to the third baseman. Tucknlan faked tagging up to second enough to force the Delta Phi third baseman to throw the ball into rightfield, enabling Tuck· man to score. Tin and Lint threatened again in the fifth inning but the rally was halted by a diving catch by Krinick at first base off ·the bat of Stu Bober. The team did manage. to score another run in the sirth inning but that was .all they could manage as Delta ?hi came away with a 5-2 victor-y. .. TONIGHTIII 8:30 Al,umni Gym I' ' · les 'Killer' Kennedy Brad 'The Cunnington Cannon' Nicholson vs. vs. Carl · 'The Hmmmer' Aikens Jeff 'F\ISts' Feigelson This Summer . , CorneD What better place to be than far above Cayuga's waters as you improve your writing skills. work witn computers. participate in a pre-Jaw pro- .gram. or take a course in conceptual drawing? Nowhere else can you learn in the company of so diverse a group of faculty and students in such a uniquely attractive setting of hills. lakes. gorges and waterfalls. At Cornell. you can fulfill requirements. ac· celerate your degree program. or simply take advantage of the opportunity to .study those in· triguing subjects that you have always put. off. Request an Announcement and see for yourself all the reasons why Cornell is the place. you should be this summer. Tuition is $14 5 per semester credit or less. ... ~~ .\MERirAN WHlSKEI A BLEND vi \\\4! o/ ~'-\\\ '\-\\ .,...,;,{~dtfJ'/Imw.' ufi.{<JU~ 4 l'ta«' o/ Jh'M~ Cornell University Summer Session. B13 Ives Hall. Ithaca. New York 14853 --- nd u·estern · d es countrv a • 7 & 7UP.. And so o . n m\aderatlon. Seve•& SEAGRAM OlSliLL[RSCO IH(; AM[RICAN'IMISKEY-1\Dl!~D SO PROOF ... __ T~ 0 .... 0 r. c.. c: ro E ,_ 0 z c: E ,_ 0 - tJ) Afte appeal men's gotten pired enacte the 1 posith; match PrOJ Stewa1 single: Nurr Moo Conti 21-12 Th not 1 one. Alba 14-10 mint All scor• lines defe1 vers: Med scor1 and The Alba T1J Unic une:!l! gam cont doWJ scor Mor get new, the 1 the field side The scor M Unic 4 '

OONOORDIENSIS, April S9, 1981 Page 19 Tennis Bounces Back Trac·k Falters 0 .... 0 -a c: ro E .... 0 z c: E 1.. 0 - IJ) ByS.'E. Sports Staff After two bitter defeats it appears as If the Union College men's tennis team has finally gotten on the right track. Ins- pired by two lineup changes enacted by coach AI Bognoli, the team has responded positively, winning its last three matches. Promoting freshman. Dan Stewart and Ricky Molot to singles spots seems to have Number one singles Dwight Moore given the team the shot of adrenaline it needed. Last Tuesday, Union traveled to . Hartwick and blew them out winning 8-1. Steve Eskenazi, David Katz, and Dan Stewart aH had easy times winning their singles matches. Ricky Molot and number one Dwight Moore had tougher matches, Ricky winning in two sets, 7-6, 1-5; and Dwight getting a 6-4 third set victory. The doubles teams of Dwight Moore and Josh An tiles, Ricky Molot and Dan Stewart and Steve Eskenazi and David Katz, finished off the afternoon with straight set wins, Union's first home match on a sunny Friday afternoon against Siena produced the same results: Union 8, Siena 1. Dwight Moore, Ricky Molot, Dan Stewart, Steve Eskenazi, and Dave Patatita aU had easy straight set singles wins. Union's doubles teams wer.e again awesome. David Katz and Dwight Moore, Ricky Molot and Dan Stewart, and Steve Eskenazi and Collin Green all crushed their Siena doubles opponents, not one team giving up more than three games ih any set. . On Saturday, Union traveled to windy Skidmore and came o away with a 9-0 rout. Thirty :g m.p.h. winds forced Union c. singles players to play smart, )6 and even though sets were E dropped, all singles players ~ triumphed. The highlight of ~ match was · No. · 5 · Dava .!: Patalita's 6~1, 4-6, 6-0 victory E over a tough Skidmore op- ~ ponent. Dwight Moore, Ricky .1/) Molot, Dan Stewart, Steve Eskenazi, and Dave Katz all Rugby· Strong Continued from page ~0 21-12. The second game was as, if not more, exciting as the first one. This time, though, it was Albany Med. who edged Union 14-10 witb a try in the final minute of play. Albany put itself on the scoreboard when a home-team linesman penetrated the Union defense for a try. The con- version was good which put Med. on top 6-0. Again Albany scored as its line worked it out and downfield for another try. The conversion failed, giving Albany Med. a 10-0 advantage. This didn't stop the tough Union team. With many unexperienced players in the game, the Garnet ruggers continually pushed the ball downfield, but was unable to score a try. Guided by Tony Morgan, the Union ruggers did get a chance. This time newcomer Joe Bosco made sure the team got it. Bosco grabbed the ball and broke into open field as he sprinted down the sideline for Union's first try. The conversion missed and the score was 10-4. Midway into the second half, Union evened the score on a Steve Carter try. After receiving a pass, Carter bolted twenty yards for the second Garnet try. Bob Waaler con- verted the extra-points kick. Union again continuously pushed the ball downfield threatening to score and take the lead. One time Chip . Symington barreled over an Albany rugger but was brought down within inches of the goal. With the score tied at 10-10, and time running out, Union had the ball deep in its own territory. Controversy arose as an Albany Med. player · in- tercepted a pass and ran it in with less than a minute to play. Union claimed that this player had been offside when he made the interception, but the referee refused to change the call. The conversion failed and the score was final: 14-10 in Albany Med.'s favor. Thi~ week the Club will journey to Norwich for an important tournament where it hopes to keep its streak going. After that, the Club will finish off the season with four home games. Also this week, the Club's program will, be coming out. Support. Union Sports had easy times in their singles wins and the doubles teams ·Of Dan Stewart and Ricky Molot, Steve Eskenazi and Collin Green, and Dave Katz and Dwight Moore, aU crushed their opponents as well. The team finished so quickly thatthey had plenty of time to stay on campus for the block party. The team looks forward to tough matches against Albany, Hamilton and Middlebury coming up in the next week. Dave Katz returning a shot in doubles play ByD.D. Sports Staff With the outcome .of the RPI meet still pending, the Varsity Track te~.Qropped to 0-1 with a loss to Hamilton College, 103- 60 on April14. Hamilton College proved to have too m11ch depth for the Dutclunen to handle. Five Dutchmen recorded in vain: .. senior Bob picked up his second · the season in the (42'8\) Chris Howd javelin with a throw of .. Gary Wenner ·\'_. ... ,, the pole vault for finish, and Watkins and first in the triple tively. a second (19'7'') .. up place finished the high jump (5'8\) jwnp (41'10\). Mark recorded a pair of spots, placing second in put ( 42' 4\) and sec(>D(J:' discus (129'3\). place finishers for chmen were: \Sid\ the 400 meter dash Arnheiter in the steeplechase (9: 55. Mickel in the 800 (2:05.5). Mickel later conllll.E his performance in the 800 meter saying, \by running the 800 instead of the 400, I'll probably be able to make a smoother transition to cr<lss country running in the fall.\ Third place finishers for Union included: Pete Stegeman in the 100 high hurdles (18.9), Bob Pavacic in the discus (121'8\) George Caposi in the 100 meter dash (11.7), Bob Stelmackski in the 400 meter dash (52;8), Bill Lichtman in the javelin (166'3\) Gary Wenner in the 400 intermediate hurdles (62.0), and Dave Botta in the 5000 meter (16:31.4). On Saturday, April 24 the Dutchmen traveled to Oneonta for the Hartwick lnvitationals. Union finished fifth out of teams, tallying 46 pollll.t\$·1 Frosh \Tiger\ Watkins ,.,...,,,.T·, ·,...,Dutchmen with a third finish in the· high jump '). Bill Lichtman added a place in the javelin with a toss of 168'11''. Bob Bertagna p1cJttea up a fourth in the long (20'10\) while Gary w-Pnr.u~r was fourth in the pole · . Bob Stelmack and took fourth in the (53.3) and the respectively. s 400 meter ( Jo.hn Johnson, 'U<lii.J'U\•A Bob Bertagna, Joh:nst<m) crossed the line for another fourth Chris Howd was in the javelin (166'10\) and Dave Dellehunt notched fifth in the 1500 meter run (4:13) . Former Union standout and Division III AllmAmerican Kevin Scheuer shattered hos own track record in the 1500 meter with a time of 3:54. TWo fresh- men captured sixth place finishes for the Dutchmen: Bob Bertagna was sixth in the triple jump (42'3\) and Pete Stegeman was sixth in the 110 high hurdles (18.0). Ed Arnheiter, Mark Dunn, Continued on page 18 ~- Athle~e of the Week ~ By MICHAEL SHARP Sports Staff Mike Saccocio, junior cen- terfielder for the Union College baseball team, has won the Athlete of the Week honors. The decision was an easy one for the sports staff this week due to Mike's impressive statistics. Through the first eight games of the season, Mike has eleven hits and ten runs in twenty-five at bats, for a .440 average. He is also nine for nine in stolen bases. Currently, he has an eight game hitting streak, with two doubles, a triple, and ten walks. He has only struck out once all year. Mike is no slouch on the defense either. He has yet to commit a single error. o Mike is a three-year starter o for the baseball team. He was \5. Most Valuable Player of last c year's squad due to the fact that . he led the team in five of nine · en categories and was second in the other four. Against RPI last week, Mike sparked a come-from-behind surge for the. Datchmen with a two run single. The Dutchmen had been down 8-6 in the top of the ninth, but they finished the inning with seven runs and eventually took :RPI 13-9. Mike shines in the classroom with a 3.5 academic index. He is 'a political science major and has made the Dean's List every year he has been at Union. Mike has been nominated by the sports information office . for Academic All-A.merican honors. Mike is expected to be drafted in one of the first ten rounds of the major league baseball draft. He has been heavily scouted by six major league teams. Mike is a 1979 graduate of Schalmont Hi~h School in Mike Saccocio ..:....WE DELIV E~- 374-1888 Schenectady where he was a two-year Colonial Council All- Star. He is a brother of the Theta Delta Chi fraternity. Happy birthday and the best of luck to Mike and the best of luck for the baseball squad for the remainder of the 1982 season. 464 State St . Schenectady, NY

Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, April 29, 1982 \ ' o ~ : ~ • ' I o • . . ' ~ • j. • ' • ' • • ' ' ' ' ' •• • ' • ' • • • Swings Kven Bv SCOTT WYKOFF · Sports Staff . Union ended the second fuJil week of the ·rain-hampered 1982 batieball campaign with q respectable .500 record. Junior Mike Saccocio continues to ·\\''''\'\''·'·· the headlines as last extended his hitting \t.•'\\''\' nine games and Dutchmen in stolen nine. Division I power , ploded for four · · <eventh and five ··ighth to beat ~entral Park, Tuesday, 12-5. Siena iunnrHlorl r hree-run lead pitcher Dav ·· Packer game --~_. .. .,..--. sixth laVli:f:lg,,,,,.::@.!~t@ltft\0. a game. righty Rowe put the side down two-three in the sixth looked as though the showed a great deal of character in a 13-'9 come\from- behind win over the Engineers from RPI. Union jwnped out on top in the first inning with two run::; a~S leftfielder Andy Dreher and utilityman Joe Wood each collected an RBI. Georg.e Ob€rstadt's two run double and Moriarty's run scoring triple ·. the fifth gave the Dutchmen a lead. The Engineers came in the home halves of the and eighth innings to ..,,.. .......... lead. Mike Sac- single got things cu~ .. ,. ..... \ for Union as . pick up seven Ed Moriarty, '-: Clinton and RBI's as ' to win by a · ' , ed and went Dutchmen. : a, pleasant h Sakata's tum had swung to the side of ij.}~::;::::;::;:::::::II~Em as he has ·a starter and Both fireballer Dave Packer Garnet. Then the roof fell in on Dutchmen as Siena went on ' score nine runs in the next t . . innings while sending 19 men .,, the plate. Union was scheduled to directly from the Siena for St. Lawrence and at the next·afternoon. But mother nature played havoc with the weather once again and Coach Sakala was forced to reschedule the St. Lawrence games for this weekend. Union is now scheduled to play Middlebury (doubleheader) this Saturday and then travel to St. Lawrence for another twin-bill on Sunday. The Dutchmen regrouped after the tough loss to Siena and out of the bullpen against the good Union took »ca.;)uH series from RPI as also defeated them earlier week 12-11. e Dutchmen then took to the road Saturday for a twin-bill with Norwich. Errors plagued the Dutchmen in the first game as they lost in extra innings, 5-4. Senior ace Paul McGrath (2 wins,' 1 loss) went the distance for Union while giving up five runs on 12 Norwich hits. This was McGrath's second com- plete game and first career loss. Union led by the pitching of Nat Harris and the hitting of Sports Happenings 0 .... 0 .s:: 0. c ttl OJ a .:.: u ·~ 0 Baseball April 29-May 6 April29 at LeMoyne ( 2) 1:00 M~y latMiddlebury (2) 1:00 May 2 at St. Lawrence (2) 1:00 May 4at Albany St. 3:00 May 5 at Siena 7:30 Varsity lacrosse May 6 Roc;hester 3:00 May 1 at Hamilton 2:00 ·May 5 Hobart 3: 30 Mayl at Hamilton 2:00 May 4at RPI 5:00 May 1 at Co.lgate Open April30 at Colgate 3:00 May 5 at Middlebury 3:00 Apri I 29 at W-illiams 1:00 May 3 Utica 1: 00 May 1 Norwich lnv. Rugby To urn. J. V. Lacrosse Track Tennis Golf Rugby Union Ruggers jump against Albany Med for a line out. G.eorge Oberstadt and Mike Saccocio came back to win the second game of the doubleheader, 5-3. The fresh- man Harris got his first career win while giving up three runs on seven Norwich hits. George Oberstadt continued to rip the ball as his two-run double in the fifth keyed a four run Datchmen rally. Junior centerf.ielder Mike Saccocio came out of Satur- day's doubleheader extending his hitting streak to nine games while also getting his ninth stolen base in as many at- tempts. The 44 Dutchmen travelled to Colgate for a doubleheader on Tuesday and also travel to ·Syracuse ·today for another double-dip. Dave Schumann sprints upfield under the I ights against R Pl. C; N c Ql :.: u IU ~ c IU u c ::l 0 >- :.C 0 .... 0 .c a. Laxmen Drop Pair By I)ON BEALL Sports Staff The lacrosse team had a disappointing week as they lost a one-goal game to the Middlebury Panthers and lost decisively to archrival RPI. The Middlebury game kept the fans on the edge of their seats as the play was back and fortll all game. Tri-Captain John Mercer played an outstanding game in the net. Not only did he make some excellent sav.es, but he was also the main force in Union's clearing ability. The Panthers had 50 shots and only nine goals were allowed to pass. Union's offensive drive was led by powerful Marc Marro. Marc had three goals for the af- - ternoon, two of which were on hard drives to the net and one on a cannon from outside. Fresh- man Marc Ehudin matched his performance of the game before with two more goals and Jim Wright also hit the lamp for two goals. Dave Schumann came up with a goal to give Union their eight go~ls. Union once again outscored their opponents in the first half by a score of 7-4, but Middlebury came back with five goals in the second half. The Panthers were led by Thoms.en with four goals and Hennesy_ with three ge>als. Union had a lot of scoring at- tempts, however their entire offense in the second half was a single g(}al in the fourth quarter. This was a disap- pointing loss since Middlebury is a nationally ranked team and Union had them beat at the half. Union hosted RPI on Satur- day night under the lights in front of a large and· rowdy crowd. The Dutchmen were down 4-2 entering the second quarter, but they managed to come back with three goals and held RPI to one goal for a tie score at the end of the half. Everyone anticipated an out- standing second half, however RPI managed to .shut Union out in the third quarter and pump in three goals of their own. Union had a great deal of pressure but was unable to put the ball away. Union got outscored in the fourth quarter 3-1 for a 6-11 final score. Andy Larkin and Jim Wright each had a pair of goals, and Marro and Myers each netted the ball once. Steve Myers' goal carne with only seven seconds left in the game. Union had 34 shots against RPI's 36 shots. It was a much closer game then the score indicates. The Du.tchmen need to start hitting the net more and putting their shots in. Five of RPI' s goals were extra man goals so penalties seemed to hurt the Dutchmen as well. Lax Notes Veterans Mike Maluccio and Sean Durham are still out with knee injuries. It is lillcertain when they will play again . . . Charlie Freni made a strong comeback against MiddlebW\y and RPI after fighting off the flu. Charlie also got to play against his brother who is a defenseman for Middlebury ... Union had an away game at Williams on Wednesday and }lad a game at Hamilton on Saturday. R_ugby Remains Undefeated By S.C. Sports Staff The Union RFC remained undefeated as it beat Albany Medical School by a score of 21- 12 Saturday at Albany's Lincoln Park. After a shaky first half, the Union ruggers kicked themselves into gear as they exploded for eighteen points. In the first half, defense was the name of the game. Union, however; did get a scoring chance late in the half. As the Garnet ·ruggers surged down tile field, a penalty was called on Albany Med. Union decided to kick for goal and Tom Con- way was given the task. From outside the25-yard line, C!mway split the uprights putting Union on top by a score of 3.0 as the half ended. The second half was a dif- ferent story. Union kicked off and quickly gained possession as the Albany Med. offense failed to hold on to it. Rapidly the ball was worked out to Lee Waxman at wing. Waxman broke several tackles and was able to put the ball doWn for Union's first try. Conway converted the extra-points kick to give the visiting team a 9-0 advantage. By this time the Union offense was rolling. Soon after its first try, the Garnet club was . given another op- portunity. Eric Serilli got the ball out on the left and made a cut to the inside dodging two defenders. Serilli easily carried it in and put it down behind the goal posts for Union's second try. Again Conway converted the kick bringing the score to 15- 0. - At this point, Albany Med. was able to prove itself somewhat offensively. After a series of Union penalties, Albany had the ball on Union's one-foot mark. Though the Garnet defense held tough, it was not enough to hold back Albany's sUrge to score. An Albany player was able to put it down just. over the line for the home team's first try. The kick was good and Albany Med was on the board with six points. Just as one might think the tide was changing, Union's Joe Cardino put a damper on that thought. Immediately after the kick-off, Carl Aiken got a hold of the ball but had to dump it off to Brad Nicholson who; in turn, pitched it out to Cardino. Cardino then dove in for a third Union try and once again Conway converted which gave Union its total of 21 points. As the Garnet defense slackened off, a Med l.inesrnan was able to score a final try by squeaking past two Union defenders. The conversion was good which brought the score to Continued on page .19 Ill '0 \- 10 .s:: u ,Q2 Ill 'i: 10 .s:: u >- .0 0 - 0 .s:: 0. - () - A u the aw1 the tici Alu Wei inv tici hig! Ac< Dir Ric sta; ma ten rec the alu the the: tou coil oth cha giv, sch T be~ a-tl Th1 Rie yet He tak $43 rec -the cal rep the pet pri: tea cat Ple wh ha' am ind agi tha In aw div ini s ph< tinl pot beE arE gh an

