·cxut. N;o.l4 .. · Union's Brian Cox· (99) and Mark Taviti<:~n (88) smother Albany State;s quarterback for a loss as Toni Plungis (70) looks on. The Dutchmen wohtne game 24·7. · · · · · · York ·october 6, 1983 ~ .. Ranked Tenth in Country Dutchmen Roll On, Defeat Albany, 24-7 By LOU GEORGE Sports Staff Last Saturday night the Dutclunen coptinued their bid for an undefeated, playoff exten'ded season with a character building 24-7 win over the Great Danes of Albany State. The Union victory has given the Dutchmen eno.ugh recognition to boost them into a well deserved position in the NCAA Division Three Football Poll; a feat 1mmatched in Union football history. Union is currently number ten. The East is al~o represented by number five ranked Hofstra, who ·beat Albany State earlier, and St. John's, who with a 4--0 record, is ranked seventh. by Dan Stewart were too close not to score. Stewart rolled right, saw the goal line and springed to put the Dutchmen in the lead for good. R.A. Hotline Formed The win was witnessed by one of the largest and most emotional crowds ever to congregate aroWld the astroturf field. Everyone expected a close hard-fought battle and that was exactly what hap- pened. The Dutchmen found themselves in the middle of a defensive struggle for the second straight week. Also, for the second week in a row, Union's offense could not be shut down for an entire game. Part of that is the fact that Albany St. lost their talented defensive lineman Jim Can- field. Canfield was a thorn in the Gamet offense until he was injured early in the second quarter. On the same token, as ea~fi~ld and his cono~ con- fused: the lJnion 'offense, the Garnet defensive wall con- tinued to give the offense as many chances as they needed to score. Everyone, from sophomore defensive guard Tony Valente to junior free safety Lenny Huttner, played a solid mistake-free game allowing Albany St. only 105 yards in total offense. The Garnet defense hit with authority every time someone touched the ball. This caused a lot of dropped passes in the secondary that otherwise would have been trouble for Union. Union's next two insurance touchdowns came in the seoond half. The first was a thirty-nine. yard punt return by stellar freshman defensive back Alex Ritta. This was the first punt return touchdown in over four years for the Dutchmen. For some reason many people are confident they won't have to wait that long before t~y see another. The second was a Stewart too, that's right, F~ank Kraft'.s touchdown pass which covered fourteen yards. 'I'hat touchdown pass increased Stewart's string of consecutive games with a touchdown pass to thirteen. By ERiCA ROSENBLOOM ''not. to. take the place of .Security;''· but that. R.A. 's Witl,lin the next two weeks, a receive a lot .. of. tra~~g and this central Residential Advisor provides a way for them to put office will be openecHo students their training into practice.''· He who are irr need of assistance added, \We feel the R.A. office when their RA is unavailable, is. a necessary and wanted according to Assistant Director · entity, however, it . must be .of Residence Life, Chip 'Morris. utilized responsibly by the \In the past, there have been student body in order for it to be times when people wanted to or a beneficial service. It is quite needed to talk to their RA or a an . added . responsibility, friend, and no ·one was in the r.eq¢I.\jilg a large personal and building,'; _Morris stated. ~e time coiD:IDitment by the RA's.\ Administration determined that · Organizing the Residential in response to this dilemrila, an Advisor· office was a office should be established, so ''some\Vhat frustrating•·· ex- that students in need of support perience. \We wantedJo have have a place to go. ·.the office op.en at the beginning The RA office will be located of the term, but we ran into ·on the fil'St floor of West College · difficulties,\ explained Morris. at · the north end. Students -.. Office construction, as well as looking for .the office should · two - defective · telephOne turn right, iri~tead of turning systems,· were- responsible for l~ft, to go to the dining hall. the delay in opening the RA. Presently, negotiations for .· a office. ' · telephone number are un- Students should take ad· derway with the phone com- . vantage of tl;J.e R.A. office anv , · pany. Two possibilities are x666 · - · or HELP, however, as of now, there is no established riumber. Two RA's will always be on· · duty from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. on weekdays, while weekend duty begins at 6 p.m. Friday and . culminates at 8 a.m. Monday. One ofthe two RA's on duty is required to be in tbe office from > 6 p.m. untilll p.m. every night. ~ When the office is closed, but ~ RA's are on duty, they will be ~ equipped with cordless phones, which allow mobility. RA ·ac- ~ .. .' \' tivity during this time is ·not restricted, but they sliould not . engage in anything \to impair their ability to respond\. >- \ .. ;Q ,e. 0 .1: o..: ~ . . ' ~ ., time they normally request It.A; help, with thE:l sole eJJ:~ ~-~P~i~:n of lockouts. 'I.11e phone nuiri&er will eventually be . posted in each residence hall. · When asked abO-ut R.A. response to their new respon- sibility, Morris replied, \They are tentative. The program has never been done before and they are not sure how it will work. It's im,possible to foresee all situations. On the whole, however, they're pretty excited about it. It gives them the op- portunity to realJ:y help people, which is the purpose of the Residential Advisor program.\ General R.A. sentiment about tbe new ptQgram is reflected by one KA. 's opinion, \I think it's a good idea, but I don't think it will go over well, because tnost students won't take it seriously.'' As to the outcome of · the Residential Advisor office program, only time will prove its success or failure. Morris· wanted to stress that the purpose of this probram is Chip Morris, Assistant Dir~ctorof Residen<ie Life. The first score of the game silenced the loud, fired up Union crowd that was le4 by a high- spirited ~heerleading squad. Albany's Mark Galuski picked off a Stewart pass and returned it through an awe-stricken Union offense for a forty-seven yard touchdown return. This was the first time the Dutclunen have trailed in their last six outings. It was also the first time in a long stretch that the Union fans had reason to worry. This changed within the next quarter when Union took the lead before halftime 9-7. The first Union score came on a twenty-eight yard field goal by Greg Sticka with Joe Vito holding. Union's first touch- down came after an Albany punt netted ten yards. The Garnet offense drove to the one- yard line but a confused offense took too much time and was penalized f<>r a delay-of-game. That put the ball outside the six yard line, but the Dutchmen led Wide receiver Winston Britton tiptoes the sidelines in attempt to stay in bounds for a completi<ln. . This coming weekend Union faces a weaker Colby team. However, in past years, the . Mules have always been a pothole in the Dutchmen's rCJad to success. Colby is ()..2 with losses to Wesleyan 17-13, and WPI 30-7, but will be looking forward to r~eating what they accomplished two years ago; beating Union after an emotional victory over Albany St. This weekend the Garnet will be playing in front of a homecoming crowd which will give them added incentive to showcase their talent. L.ast season the Dutchmen beat the Mules 14-3 in a rather sluggish performance. If the Dutchmen offense clicks into gear, Colby will be in for a long afternoon, if not, tbe Garnet defense will continue to give the offense the field position in which to work. See Football Polls, p. 15. ~ ~ >- .c 0 - 0 .c. c.

\' Ill IJ) .r::. v <!.1 c .r::. Q. Ill Q >- .0 0 .... 0 .r::. a.. CONCORDIENS./S, Octo.ber 6, 1983 Chaplain Enthusiastic By ROBIN MOLELLA campus. Despite not having felt her best,. she has been very visible since she arrived. She participated in many activities. ' during orientation, and since has attended group meetings, lectures, concerts, and mar· ched for nuclear freeze. Sr. Joan believes in presence; that she must be visible tQ the Union students as a whole person . mailings and receptions. They alS<! printed a leaflet as a ser- vice to campus residents, en- titled \Campus Ministry at Union\ which liSts personal contacts, clergy, campus organizations ( JSU, kosher kitchen, Chr~tian Fellowship), and includes a map of local churches and synagogues, with hours ·for services, and phone numbers. Some copies are still available in the library. Sister Joan Vlaun, Catholic Chaplain One of the new faces at Union this fall is Sister Joan Vlaun, O.P., who was s~lectedto fill the position held by Fr. Dennis Cox, as Catholic Chaplain. This is Sr. Joan's sixth year as a eampus minister. She comes to Union after spending three years at Western Illinois Uruver,sity in Maycomb, Illinois and more recently two years at C. W. Post College. Sr. Joan received her Ph.D. from New York University in twentieth century American History. Sr. Joan, an Amityville Dominican, decided to become a nun when she was a. junior in highschool, \When I think back, I am amazed at how confident I was in my decision. Now people aren't sure of their futures when they're in college. Today the convent wouldn't accept anyone so young.'' When questioned on the obvious sacrifices becau.Se of her ch<1ice of, life styles, she remarks, \I am not going to minimize the sacrifice, but I thinkof my vows as making me more free-more free to give of myself and to love-more free to know myself.\ Sr. Joan has many ideas for her portion of Campus Ministry, the responsibilities . for which she shares with ~v. Hugh Nevin. Together they have each offered to teach various worksfiops in the residence halls. Campus Ministry is also sponsoring Oxfam America an organization ag~inst world hunger. In other facets. of her duties Sr. Joan is attempting to · revive Newman club on cam• pus,· offering a bible study, and a series offive W~dnesday night lectures. \Students says Sr. Joan, ''learn and· grow in many different ways during their college years, often with the exception of their faith .. I would like to provide them with the opportunity to change this-to grow as a whole person.\ Sr. Joan seems extremely optimistic, and realistic about the challenges facing her here at Union. Her warm, . outgoing and energetic personality h~s already made her many friends. Forum Considers ''I ani not here to evangelize,'' rather, she quotes a Dominican motto which .says het goal is \To ·contemplate, and to share the fruits of con- templation.\ She is presently housesittiJlg·. in the Stockade, and hopes to have a small apartment near ~ampus . soon, so that she will feel more a part of campus. ,Students' Issues By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Assodate Features Editor The Student Forum held its third meeting on Monday, October 10. A variety of issues were discussed. First to be covered was. the passage of the Forum minutes for the previous week. A motion to accept the minutes was approved unanimously. Next to be presented were the weekly reports from the committee chairmen and representative. Jamie Dan- ziger, AAC representative,, spoke first. At its last meeting the Academic Affairs Council discussed the Math Department policy towards the calculus 10 A.P. credit. Students who have previously taken calculus in high school, but wish to take calculus 10 (the first calculus course) may do so only on a pass fail basis. This new policy was just adopted last year and remains a subject of question. Also to be discussed at the AAC meeting was the expansion of the Geology Department. Currently the Geology Department remains a sub- division of the Civil Engineering Department. Plans were discussed, though not that extensively. for an increase in the number of department faculty and courses offered. This is to be the subject of further discussion. Jarred Squires, Committee on Committees chairmen, gave the weekly COC report. The goals of this year's COC were discussed · along with enminations of club constitutions. Some committee applications may also be submitted for Forum approval by next week. V .P. of Finance, Ben Hecksher, discussed the minutes of the last Finance Committee meeting. Topics covered in last week's meet,ing included a request for ad- ditional funds by Speaker's Forum · t'abled until next week), approval of committee minutes, a determination of the cause of Concordiensis' budget overspending, and policy with clubs that overspend tqeir budgets. Two issues voted upon were additional funding for the cheerleaders ($240 for . travel and cleaning costs) and a statement on dealing with clubs that overspend their budgets. The motion stated that if any Student Forum funded organization overspends any one object category, its budget may immediately ·be frozen and an audit would commence. Both motions passed. The next major topic to be discussed ·was the selection of a student representative to the ISC (Independent Student Coalition). The ISC is a public lobbying group which represents and protects the interests of students who attend Sr. Joan is obviously en- thusiastic about her new role on Campus Ministry has made a large effort to contact the students through mass Both Sr. Joan and Rev. Nevin hav.e extended their welcome to all students to drop by the office any time,. or to call. The office is · located on fourth floor .,Car- negie, and the phone No.-'ts 370- 6087. .private colleges throughout New York State. Of main GOncern, for this year at least, is lobbying the State· Legislature in Albany. The Union College ISC rep serves as liason bet- ween the college and the rsc, while also participating in the lobbying activities of the ISC. Though several motions and ideas were suggested, only one motion came up for a vote: since the ISC is a campus wide position, the representative should be selected by a general campus wide election. The motion did not pass. The issue as a whole was put off until next week. College • 1.n Your Kitchen Last of the major issues to be discussed was the raffle proposed by Melissa Viglielm.o Continued on page 13 A· .private, San Francisco- based telecommunications firm has just launched the natiQn's· first ·\electronic university,\ which is already offering over 170 non-credit courses. by . personal computer. \We're working with universities, with home study, people and with corporations who provide home study programs,\ explains Tom White, president of TeleLearning Systems, which . began the network in mid- September. Students with personal computers would log onto the network and lh1k up with TeleLearning's host computer here . \You can register elec- tronically and charge your tuition on a credit card, and you're basically ready to start the course,\ White says. \Wetlien.transmit a digitized photo of.your instructor, along with outline materials for the course and lecture notes for the first ciass.\ At the moment, TeleLearning is offering courses ranging from anatomy and law to \self- improvement\ courses like assertiveness training. White says all anyone needs to take the courses are an Apple, IBM or Commodore personal computer and a modem which will connect the ::; machines to TeleLearning's ~ host computer by phone. E.· But, he adds, a disk drive and ~ printer are also helpful for This past Saturday there was a Walk·a-thcm to benefit the Nuclear Freeze Campaign. The freeze walk, which started and ended on the Union campus, was part of a national effort; with freeze walks occurring in over 250 cities. · The ten kilometer Schenectad/Niskayuna walk had 112 participants, including eight students and ten faculty members. The Schenectady-Niskayuna walk contributed almost a thousand dollars to the nationwide goal of one million dollars. · According to co·coordinaror of the freeze walk Jay Newman, assistant professor of physics, the purpose of the walk was threefold--to demonstrate public support for the freeze, to bring together people who support the free·ze, and to raise money. The walkers, who ranged in age from infants to senior citizens, were cheered on by numerous passersby who paused to applaud or to give a thumbs-up signal. There were, however, a handful of people who expressed their disapprovalof the freeze. · The walk was preceded by a rally held at Union's Payne Gate on Union Street. Terri Robe.n, a local folk singer who has performed on campus, started off the rally with\ America the Beautiful\ in Which everybody participated. Short talks were then given b';' Father Jim Murphy and Priscilla Ink pen. They spoke of the significance of the walk as a symbol of peace, and its importance in the campaign to bring a halt to the \testing production, and deployment of nuclear weapons in a way that can be verified by both sides.\ ' Voting Record for Monday's Meeting: Membet Cheerleaders Budget Freeze ISC Rep Hecksher Yes Yes No Thurlow \ No Squires Yes Yes Abs Middoneck Yes Yes Yes Rodgers Yes Yes Yes Brand Yes Yes Yes a. students to store class in: formation and print out their -work. Students can ask questions and communicate with the course instructors by leaving . \electronic mail\ for them in the host computer. The in- structors would later collect the messages, and reply during the next class period. At each class's end, \you have an electronic workbook that you go over, ;;tnd the computer then grades your work, and gives you feedback which your~ instructor never sees,\ White adds. Continued on page 13 Simon Yes Abs Yes Siler Yes Yes No Discover the mogic of good books George Yes Yes Danziger Yes Yes Parsons Yes Y-es Smith Yes Yes Viglielmo Yes Bogen NOT PRESENT AT MEETING Laux Yes Totals 11 12v·u ' ' Yes· No No Yes No No 7~ 1 6Y, lA THE OPEN DOOR 1'26 .. 136 Jay Street Downtown Scheneaody 346·2719 - I L iSSil Dell l'hi and sa£4 boil fral nee4 esc; and nee resi Tru frat mee . Se '1 .P frat1 dow war shut to reqt accc of,C u reqv resi stall elec \C alar COlllJ dorr Davi duri weel dorn expE unen that morJ of tt amo1 alar play1 Jack Oper 75 P' alre~ due caus were and locat Th dealt unde First \' F p F n 51 1' c c e• (I rr (I (I ir al rE tc (: p (( e' p sc p th cc

CONCQRDIENSJS, October 6, 1983 Page3 ·Fire Safety Improved By JAN BARAN Last May, a warning was issued to six fraternities, Alpha Delta Phi, Chi Psi, Delta Phi, Phi Delta Theta, Psi Upsilon, and Sigma Phi, concerning the safety of their respective buildings .. In almost all these fraternities, electrical work needed to be completed, fire escape stairs were inadequate, and the basement ceiling needed to be more fire- resistant. The Union Board .of Trustees stated· that the fraternities were rquired to meet these safety standards by · ~Ptember 1, ·1983; or eLSe the fraternities would be closed down. The intention of this warning, however, was \not to shut tJte fraternities down, but to insure· that these requirements were ~ing met,'~ according to Jack Hill, Director of_ Campus Operations. · Last · summer, some safety requirements, including fire- . resistant ce.lings, the in- stallation of fire doors, and electrical work, were com- . . pleted. Most of the fraternities, .. however, stUl nave work pen- , ding bec.ause of construction delays. These fraternities were not shut down because there was \progress being made.\ In Alpha Delta Phi, for example, some additional work needs to be done on the center stairs. At both· Delta P~i and Phi Delta Theta, the work is in progress on the fire escape stairs and the stoves. The Sigma Phi . fraternity still requires some construction on the fire escape stairs and more electrical work, but these projects are also in progress. . As Hill, the superviSor · of · these fraternity renovations,· · painted out; '·'the college has been well satisfied with. the work done by the six. frater-. nities.'' .Hill especially welcomed the . cooperation of several fraternity· members who remained over the·summer.- to insure ·that the · work was ;c~mpleted. . The ·financing of these· con- struction projects was arranged by each· fraternity. Several Alarm Smoke Out By JAN BARAN . ''Oh, no! Not another fire alarm! \ This has been a common cry heard from the dormitories, especially Fox, Davidson, West, and North, during these first opening weeks of the school year. These dormitories and others have experienced a · seemingly unending barrage of fire ·alarms that have rung early in the morning. Unfortunately, most of these fire alarms were not among the -\&cheduled\ fire alarms. They were pranks played by Union students~ As Jack Hill, Director of Campus Operations, emphasized, \over. 75 percent of the fire alarms already set off this year were due 'to tampering.\ Other causes of the alarms sounding were over-sensitive fire alarms and alarms placed in poor locations. The Union Administration dealt with these causes by undertaking several new steps. First of all, over thirty fire alarms were ordered within the last two weeks to replace the over-snesitive ones. These new devices should be installed within ·the next week or ·two. Second, some fire alarms will 'be or have been replated because of special conditions aroun.d the original locations. Previously, detectors have been placed near showers and stoves where excessive amounts of heat or steam activated the fire alarms. Most of these problems will be corrected shortly. · The main problem faced by the administration, however, is tampering with the fire· alarm system. Because Security and the Student Affairs office consider fire alarm tampering to be a serious offense, each student who does play with the equipment will be fined $50.00 for each offense plus the cost of recharing the equipment. Since most of the false alarms are caused by students' tam- pering, the administration hopes that the students them- selves will correct the problem. · sources of aid were available to the fr.aternities. Alumni representatives and their ac- tions contributed greatly to the financing of these construction projects. A special loan program was also made available to the houses by the college, and a .few of them took advantage of thi~ offer. Several renovations were also made on college-owned houses, including Maxey, Smith; and McKean houses. These con- struction projects were financed by the college and included electrical work and the installation of fire doors. ...,_,_;..·.CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS- WRUCon the Air Union President John S. Morris will read the sign-on statement Sunday, Oct. 9, at 1 p.m .. as . campus radio station WRUC begins broadcast~g at 100 watts for the first time in the college's history. After a four-year wait, the radio station received approval last spring from the FCC for the move to 100 watts and 89.7 FM on the dial. Since that approval, a new transmitter and tower have been constructed, and required· testing has been completed. The station formerly operated at 10 -watts at a frequency of 9();9. The power increase means the station can now reach a potential Capital District listening audience of 850,000. The station's programming ernphasii 7 will'-~be new wave musi«; plus news, sports, and specials .. The official signing-on ceremonies Oct. 9 will be held at the station's offices in Carnegie Hall. The public is welcome to attend. The first regularly scheduled radio program ever, a concert · of recorded music, was aired Oct. 14, 1920, by the Union College radio station. Environment ForiJfll A , lecture serie~ titled \Environmental Issues of the 1980s\ will be held at Union beginning Oct. 6. The series features distinguished en- vironmentalists,. and is offered by Union's Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies. Lec- tures will be held in Humanities Building Room 115 on six Thursdays from 7:30 to 9 p.m. Topics and speakers are as follows: Oct. 6-Ward Stone, wildlife pathologist fo the State Department of Environmental Conservation, will discuss '~Toxics and t.beir Effects on Wildlife and Humanity.'' Oct. 13--Henry Williams. commissioner, State Depart- ment of Environmental Con- servation, \DEC and Enforcing Environmental Protection.'' Oct. 20--Maurice Hinchey, chairman of the State Assembly Conservation Committee, \Legislating Environmental Protection.'' Oct. . 27 --Judith Enck, executive director, Environ- mental Planning Lobby, ''Lobbying for Environment.\ To register or obtain further information, contact the Office of Graduate and Continuing . Studies at Wells House, 376-6288. Career Festival The fifth annual Career Festival Will be held at Union Wednesday, Oct. 12, in the Alumni· Gym from 10 a.m. to 4:30p.m. Sponsored by Ullion in con- jllnction with the Hudson~ Mohawk Association of Colleges and Universities, the program will allow students to meet infonnally with representatives of national and local businesses, government agencies, and service organizations to discuss career goals and employment opportunities. The festival will include exhibits of products and services. Participating firms include Bell Laboratories, General Motors, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Northeast Savings, Schenec- tady Trust, as well as several insurance companies, state offices, and branches of the anned services. The Career Festival is open to students from the colleges and universities in the area, as well as members of the conununity. For more information contact Pamela Hartman at Union's Career Development Center, 370-6176. The coro Foundation is looking for men and women with a demonstrated leadership capability . ~ Nov. 3-Panel discussion on ''The Role of Unions and Minority Organizations in Environmental Issues\ featuring Pete Seeger, renowned folksinger, human rights supporter, and en- vironmentalist; Lillie McLaughlin, first vice president of the Albany branch of NAACP; Bob Redlow, regional manager for Amalgamated Clthing and Textile Workers Union; and Ed B 1 o c h, Intern at ion a 1 Representative for the United Electrical Workers. Faculty aFld individuals with a dedication to public affairs. Each year Coro awards 48 post-graduate Artwork on Display fel~owships for the study of the interrelationships between the public and private sectors. Fellows are assigned to one of four centers: San Francisco; St. Louis, Los Angeles and New York' for the nine·month internship oriented program which leads towards a master's degree in Public Policy Analysis: . · · Since 1942, the Coro Founda}lon has been offering a unique, expe.riential approach to the study of public affairs. The combination of internship assignments and weekly S'eminars challenge the Fellows to sharpen their communicatioll. skills, develop their leadership potential and study the network of power .that influences policy in bUsiness, labor, government, politics and community Artwork by five members of . the Union Arts Department faculty is on display through Nov. 18 in the Kruesi Art Gallery on the first floor of the Arts Building at Union. · service. · Nov. 10--Don Rittner, A representative from the Coro Foundation will be on campus October 19 to interview for the 1984·85 Fellowship :year. An information session will be held on October 18 at 7 p.m. in the Career Development center. ln~erested students should sign up in advance. Contact Pat Matteo at the president, American Pine Barrens Society, Inc., \The Pine Bush: Grassroots Success i.n Preserving Unique Natural For more information, contact the Arts Department office at 370-6201. Career Center for applications and more information. · An AD HOC com m.ittee has been formed to evaluate the candidacy of Prof. James ·McCord (English Department) for tenure. The com- mitteeconsists of Profs. Huii(Chemistry), Smith (Arts), Stevenson (English), and Reynolds (Economics-Committee .chairman). We actively invite testimony from students, faculty or alumni bearing on ·Prof. McCord's teaching, research or college service. Individuals wishing to offer testimony may contact Prof. Reynolds (370-6217) or any committee member. An AD HOC committee composed of Professors Berl<, Ga jjat, Jones, a.Rd Sea ife (Chairperson) .has been appointed to investigate, evaluate and report on the· tenurability of Professor Jay Newman (Physics). If any per- sons want to provide testimony relating to Professor Newman's tenurability, please submit the testimorw in writing to the Chairperson or contact the Chairperson to set up an interview. Areas.\ · An Ad Hoc Committee has been formed to evaluate the tenurability of Professor Linda Patrik (Philosophy). The committee consists of Professors Baker (Philosoph:\[), Ginsberg (Modern Languages), A. Taylor (Mathematics), and Prosper (Economics, Committee Chairman). We invite testimony from students, faculty and alumni ·bearing on Professor Patrik's teaching, research or cQIIege service. Individuals wishing to offer testimony may contact Professor Prosper (370·6219) or any committee member. The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science is conducting a third·year review of Prof. Herbert J. Kump. Any person who wishes to contribute to the department's in· ves1tgation should submit statements, either oral or in writing, to Prof. Yu Chang in the depart· ment. An Ad Hoc Tenure Committee composed of professors William Aubrey <ME:), Byron Nichols (PS}, Philip Snow (CE) and 'chaired by Professor Helena Birecka (Bio.) has been appointed to ,investigate, eva I uate, and report on the tenurabilitY of Thomas J ewe liP assistant professor of Civil Engineering. Anyone who has relevant information is urged to convey the testimony to the committee in writing or bY contacting Professor 8 ire<:ka to arrange an Interview. fcl'; IU Cl :c u Cll c s::. Cl. IU Cl '>- ,.0 ~ s::. a.

>- ~ IJ) c: E <I) ::.:: >- '- '- !U ...1 >- .0 \' 0 ... 0 .c a. ' ,Page4 CONCORDIENSIS~ October 6, 1983 FEATURES • Professor D.L. Schaffer Professor H aroiGI Fried \L~ving LQtin\ Many of us grew up never being al:)le to say more tl}an '' Et tu\ to Brutus. But students this swnmer at U nionleamed much more complete and useful phrases in Latin, and learned that the language is very much alive. \The longer I'm at it, the more I can see how useful Latin is,\ said Patricia Gregory, who has taught Latin for more than 14 years in Glens Falls Colonie, and Schenectady schools. This /o the arts, sciences, medicine and law. The 1ast portion of each class was devoted to ·reading, writing, and translating. Suilding vocabulary is a common reason students give .for taking Latin, Sorum said, citing science, math,- pre-law, and pre-med students who were helped· by knowing the Latin roots. Sorum said that 21 per~ cent of the words in Dorland's illustrated Medical Dictionary are derived from Latin. ''People think Latin is an odd major that re~dly limits you,\ Sorwn said. \It doesn't limit New Faces in Economics/ · year, Gregory participated in ''Sl.litlmerskill\ at Union, a swnmer enrichment program. for students in grades 6 through 9. \The students at Union were particularly gifted, and psyched to study Latin,\ Gregory said, adding that after on1y two weeks of classes., the students were about two months into Latin I. \We went way .beyond what we expected, \ she said. . you any tnore than any other liberal arts major.\ ~he said I:.atin majors go pn to careers in law, business, publishing, etc. with perhaps the added. ad- vantage that having studied Latin ''is looked on as solid preparation. It's not a faddish thing.\ By DAVE FITZGERALD Associate Features Editor This year the Economics Department is very fortunate to have two new professors. Professors Fried and Schaffer come to Union with very im- pressive backgrounds and wh~t appears to be a sincere interest in their field of study and in the students at Union College. For the last five years Professor Fried has been teaching at Tulane University in New Orleans. He finds Union so far to be a pleasant change. The size of the student body is an especially large change for him to get used to. Tulane University is a much larger university than Union but he finds Union to be a very friendly place. Professor Fried's area of special interest is in in- ternational economics. He finds Union students to be a very exciting and interesting group. Professor D.L. Schaffer comes to 'Union for his first teaching position from M.I.T. where he is currently finishing his Ph.D. dissertation, titled \Computational General The Samaritans Equilibrium Model of the Distributional Welfare Effects of U.S. Transportation Policy.\ What he is attempting to do in his dissertation is to study the effects of recent deregulation in the trucking industry and how it has affected other intlustries in the areas of unemployment and prices. The use of computer models are very important to Professor Schaffer's research. In fact one attraction that Union has that was a deciding factor in. Schaffer's corning to Union is the excellent computer facilities that Union has for a small liberal arts college. ' In general Schaffer is quite A shorter-term benefit is that Latin classes can be fun. \Latin · student.s develop a real sense of cohesion in their classes,\ Sorum said. \Students have the feeling they are doing something special. That was evident in Gregory's Sui:nmerskill class, where the students frolicked through a Roman banquet on their last day of class, complete with toga costumes, grapes, olives and desserts made with honey. But it was knowing that students were beginning to recognize Latin's iinportance that meant the most to ·Gregory. The Samaritans of the Capital District, Inc., a branch of an international suicide prevention service, is seeking volunteers twenty years of age or older. The Samaritans, opening in March of 1984, hopes to help reduce the incidence of suicide by providing a 24 hour telephone service for people who may be suicidal because of a crisis or because they have become desperate and despairing. Samaritan telephones are answered by trained volunteers selected for their ability to \befriend'' others--to listen empathetically and to offer uncritical, unconditional ac- ceptance and friendship to any person with any kind of problem. If you would like to know more about .becoming a · impressed with Union and its students. He feels that Union students are more inquisititive Samaritan volunteer you are than students at other in- invited to one of our four Capital stitutions, including M-:l!T. District open meetings: We welcome Professors Fried Gregory's course was ap- propriately named ''Living Latin·,'' taught with methods that brought the language i to life. \You hear and say the language first,\ Gregory ex- plained, \the way you learn English and other languages.\ The first portion of Gregory's Classes consisted of oral story telling and a question and an- swer period among the students, each of whom had a Latin name for class. The subject matter was a kind of soap opera of a Roman family- \Dies Vitarum Nosrarum\ if you will--complete ·with romance, family life, culture, and chariot rides in the country. Following the story telling came lessons in Roman culture, noting the Roman influence on Sorum added, \It's very reassuring to know that what you're spending your life doing is worth doing.\ Tuesday, October 11th, 7:30 and Schaffer to Union College. p.m., Christ Church United Saturday Oct. 8 '5.00 (more at the door) Methodist, 5th and State, Troy Wednesday, October 12th, 7:30 p.m., First Reformed Church, 8 North Church Street, Schenectady (Assembly Hall) Thursday, October 13th, 7:30 p.m., Friends Meeting House, 727 Madison Avenue, Albany Saturday, October 15th, 9: 30 a.m., Friends Meeting House, 7'l:l Madison Avenue, Albany - For more information contact The Samaritans, P .0. Box 3822, Stuyvesant Plaza, Albany NY, 12203, or call Karen Wasby at 482-0799 evenings and weekends. From Troy, New York If's Father Guido Sarducci Two Shows Bpm& 10:30 pm Tickets available at: Music Shack RPI Student Union RPI West Hall Auditorium Sage Avenue., Troy For more info, call 266-8585 KEMP'S SPORTS SHOP ''ON CAM-PUS'' Opening Specials I - Nike Lo Leather Bruin sugg. to 38.00 lntratnural Hockey SALE 24.95 Racquetball Racquet sugg. to 18.00 SALE 6.00 Sweat Shirts or Pants Sugg .. to 12.95 SALE 6.50 Specials Cooper Helmet sugg, to 22.00 SALE 9.00 FACE MASK sugg, to 1.8.00 SALE 9.95 ELBOW PADS sugg. to 10.50 SALE 4 •. 00 Sale Good Thru Tuesday 10/11 · Store hours: Mon-Fri 12:30-7:30 Sat. 10.,4, Sun. 12-5 ~ Phone: 3701!18799._ • - ·- ·- ) 51 AI arJ gr at ju sr WE th; fw sh be of we to an Tb c\t, go: I Tb cr, pel as M~ one he; Th w'a ·hat rna life ·caE the a.UI brt Adl the

CONCORD/ENSIS. October 6, 1983 Pog~5 FEATURES And the Story Continues • • • By CHRIS HAND to strip down to their socks course .meal for the recently and perform ·ritualistic pagan decreased King Leopold III. As.weleft our story la~ week, rites to a God that only the 4i Tim; A tall brunette, well 5 Court Gestures were leaving. Court Ge$tures know a.bout. We actually he's blond, who when Anna, Marcy, Mike, Rudy, Scott then .had them sacrifice a live, he grows up wants to return to and, urn, that's five. W~ all had now dead, penguin. Where upon Union so that he can really great slUIUiier's not thinking· this God would choose the next .appreciate it. about school, or being funny and Gestures by zapping anyone 5) Eliza; A voluptious Maven just hav:ing a grand old tilne at who didn't make· the grade with ($10.00 to the first person to SDT. parties. some well-positioned sparrow write in with the correct When we came back~ things shit. If you want to rub salt into definition of ''Maven'') who, were a bitch. It became obvious· fresh wounds look around for although she looks lost, has thatCraig and C. J. could noi be those Individuals who have one been attempting to crawl to funny by themselves and still be piece of clothing that they won't Mecca on her knees all the time. students. So, after a couple c:>f touch. Those are failed 6) Bill; A tall blonde. What beers. brainstorming, the three Gestures. Laugh at them, tease more can I say about Bill, of us hit up()n a great idea. We them, it won't do you a. world of anybody wishing a date With would hold auditions. We went good, but it will make them ·Bill in the future, please call to Mountebanks (Hey, Melinda) suffer.· 382-:-9342 and ask for one of his and asked for some money. Anyhow, QUr God chose eight three ·social secretaries. They thought we had such a new members, and in what can 7) John; He's the tall blonde cutti smile that they said, \by only be called divine in- with a beard. Like Bill, he has a gosh, what the heck! ~· spiration, he made it possible girlfriend, but also like Bill, he Now came the power trip. for us to have five boys and five desperately wants a career in There were four of us. Besides women. For those of you who modeling wooly red underwear Craig and C. .J, who were are unfamiliar with the glow to nubile young eskimo boys. performers, Mark had enlisted · and look · of becalmed 8) Nina; No physical as our ·B. M. · (Business . amusement that preceeds a description-go see last month's ·Manager; not· doo~). And I, Gesture where .ever they go, I playboy for details. Nina who · once·agaiil; played the fool as will offer brief synoptic style turned .down an opportunity to head ·writer and technician. ·blurb about each member. ride on the- third space shuttle These auditions were a blast. It Beware,· the order i$. crticial. flight, and who has interests in Professor Lawrence McGahey Profile- · was the first time that any of us 1 ). Sam.; There is .no Sam in 15th century French frescoes on ·had :had the .opportlli)ity to the. cast: . . Westward· facing walls and make or.break another person's 2) Mary; A tan brunette water polo is our renaisance life. We trie~ rising to the oc-- who's Clearest desire. is to cook woman. _ ·casion, it·a,Imost broke us, but in · . an eighteen-course meal for the · 9) C.J. and Craig; These two the end we prevailed. These · recently deceased King Leopold buffoons must be treated as one. auditions consisted of · a. III . . They were born as Siamese Prof. McGahey By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Associate Features Editor bruelling 3.(lay hike into the 3} Stephanie;. A tall})run~tte · twins joined in 1857. They were Adirondacks where we for:ced who's dearest desire is to outdo separated by Dr. Chirstian A new arrival to the campus community is Lawrence McGahey, the new professor of Chemistry. Originally from Virginia, he has previously taught at Berkley. Prof. McGahey comes to Union with a uniq~~ .attitude towards his role as professor. the prospective Court Gestures · Mary by cooking a nineteen-· Barnard, and Craig was NEW Rock!'n·Roll Pizza Pub: Presents: PIZZA, ETC.-.~ Now Featuring·: HOT.S~USAGESUBS _$2.00 Pizza Bagels 45~, 90~.:._ . Hot Pretz:els 40* or 3 for $1.00 This Weeks Specials:.· 1 FREE·TO.PPING·on any. large or small Pizza-WITH THIS AD <One ad per Pizza) S1.1nday and. Monday: ' · . With!inY order over $1.00, re¢eive a. FREE PIZZA BAGEL <Not Good On 'Deliveries.) Dinner Special: 25C Medium Soda With any order,.5:00 p.m.-7:00p.m. Every·Tuesday is UNlO.N: COLLEGE NITE .. t • a ~ happy hour pric's from· 1 0 'til closing ·10 N. JayS~··· Schene~tady 374-4836 ·· P.S.: Don't forget us the rest of the week!. Wed. aaJhurs.: 2·4·1 10R2·2 · Fd. & Sat.: Late Nlte Hi.t ($1-.2.5 mixed drinks) ~2·2-2 presumed dead until be tran- sfered to Union. 10) Olivia; Our fair-haired beauty from the east pretends to be from New New Hamp- shire, When she really hails from Singapore and spends three hours putting on make-up . each morning. 11) Paul; Paul? Who's Paul? · Your guess is as good'as mine if he shows up for rehearsal. I got 3-1 odds though. 12) Mark; Penultimate, but ultimate., no need for description· here. You'll never see him on stage. However if we slander you or are libelous to your loved ones, he's the man to see. 1'3) Chris; Deliberately placed last. Now that you know . who We are, we will have our first show on Nov. 1 and at- tendance is ·mandatory. We have arranged it with every professor on campus, and the registrar so that non- attendance means an \F\ in all three of your courses. Mom and Dad wouldn't be pleased. Plus stay tuned for Court Gesture Trading .cards. Save 'em, trade 'em, collect 'em, eat 'em with your friends. Though he is a chemist, Prof. McGahey prefers to teach chemistry to non-majors. At Berkley he did ·just that, teaching chemistry to pre-meds and biology majors. \I view chemistry as another liberal art and try to base my teaching on that principle~\ He explains; \All too often chemistry is viewed as a dull, boring subject. People try to shy away from this looming spectre that is called chemistry. I wish to dispell their fears. There is an inherent beauty that is present in chemistry, though it is difficult to become aware of. The beauty in art is quite ·easy to relate to-it is a visual medium which evokes certain chords of sensibility in us. Chemistry is different; the chemist (or scientist) is limited to the printed page in order to relate the substance. However, once one possesses an un- derstanding of chemistry, the elegance of chemistry becomes GOLD FEVER TIME CENTER Jp¥EL£~S . 428 State St. ~~~:E D~:r: From Proctors Downtown Schenectady, (518) 374-0183 We're old enough to know better. that much easier to see.\ Just how does he plan on. making his students, or people in. general; aware of this? '~In the future I would like to teach a course covering issues of public interest--subjects which the average person can relate to, yet have their foundations in chemistry. With an un- derstanding of the chemical background, the issue becomes much clearer. A course of this nature would help remove some of the myths surrounding chemistry, and science in .general. It would be attractive by its appeal. Plus, it. wotlld fit into the liberal learning curriculum.\ The discussion then focused on science itself, specifically, the scientific process. \Scientists try to break things down into small problems. We try to extract pieces of in· formation from small instances to then form great ideas of explanation. It is an inductive process--possibly a unique one.\ After engaging in the process of science, the researcher usually makes a discovery. The conversation then turned to the \morality\ of science--are scientists responsible for the facts they uncover? McGahey comments, \Science is morally neutral. It is a process which pursues knowledge. One should pursue this knowledge at any cost (within reason). However, we are also people. We owe it to ourselves to make ethical decisions when presented with \dangerous or volatile\ issues. How those decisions will be made is another issue of concern.\ \Because scientists are often faced with ethical decisions, they too should receive a liberal education, one which includes ethics and philosophy. With this training, a scientist becomes more aware of moral issues when they may arise. However, one often cannot tell where one's research may lead. Unless one works in a sensitive issue, one performs the research assuming the best will occur/' Professor iMcGahey comes to Union with definite goals, and a solid teaching philosophy. Though originally unsure of us \Yankees\, he is delighted to be here at Union. He will make a most welcome addition to the faculty.

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, October 6, 1983 \That makes me mad~ I paid twenty cents more for that pound of coffee Just yesterday. Look at that tomato juice~ Tw~ I veeents less for th~e ,s~me brand ... arid look, I col:lld h~ve saved ~ven .more on th1s other bran~. and 1t SJust as good_. Think I ll take th1s with ·me when I _go shopping tomorrow and see how my store stacks \.lP· Hmm. There's that tea fve been looking for. I can even find out if my Grand Union has exactlv what I want. . rve never seen anything 1ike this ... over nine thousand supermarket prices in one book~ I save when I buy .specials. but most of what I buy is at regular prices. Now I can easily check on regular prices with this Price Finder book. And it's free everv week~ · Imagine printing this every week~ Grand Uni.on must have a lot of confidence in its low prices to do that. . .. They've changed their whole policy- they've dropped their regular prices ~o m.atch ~heir toughest supe~market coVlpe~it.ion-they ?aY.t.h~y'.ll k.·eep lower- Ing them 1f they have to .. That s why they re g1 v1ng out thts b1g hst of pnces, the Pric~ Finder, so we can c~eck on how competitive they are. And are they! Maybe they llbecome the low pnce leader~ I sure like their low _prices! Grand Union really is changing .. :' - ·- .L J ~ ( t ~ ( l J ( I J t s I r t c . 'li l i: B t t 0 I: c b

I I , i i ... 1' ., •. • I. i' !' ,. I ; CONCORDIENSIS, October 6, 1983 Page7 .Amnesty International- Prisoners of Conscience By DAVID HANIFIN Human right~ is an issue that many students 'brush off as something which doesn't concern them; thinking that they can do little about. Many students are not aware that citizens of various countries around the world are being 'held prisoner, often under cruel conditions, simply for ex- pressing their beliefs. Even those students who ar~ aware of such repulsive practices, respond with, \Well there is nothing I can do about it.\ But, · there is something that you can do about it. Through· a world• wide organizat!on known as Arrmesty International, 300,000 individuals are doipg something about it and have, in the past twenty years intervened on behalf of over 20,000 prisoners . of conscience (people being held prisoner for folloWing their . conscience and expressing their beliefs). Amnesty Inte.rnational, an international organization, carne about in 1961 as a direct result of· the imprisonment of two students under the Salazar regime of Portugal. The two students allegedly made a toast to freedom in a local .cafe and were thrown into prison for it. This incident motivated British lawyer Peter BeneS()n to lay the groundwork for a worldwide organization which since its inception, has held three major goals. These goals have in- cluded; the immediate and unconditional release of all prisoners_ · of conscience, fair and prompt trials for aU political prisoners, and voiced opposition to torture and the death .penalty in all cases. Amnesty International is partially made up of a network of campus groups at colleges across the nation. One such group is located here at Union ·College. The Union College . Welcome Back Union Students Rupsis Taver-J'I tor weekly specials MONDAY NIGH:r5: Genny Cream Ale: Pitchers $1.50, Drafts 25c free pool- famous chili dogs only 50¢ WEDIESDAY NIGHTS: soc Off all mixed drinks $2 Bud or Miller Life :Pif.cher·s Atso'trays of Pizza tree while they last Cor. Carica & Hldtie St., 1 block off Nott St. ~ Ullion Coli. Fieldhouse group is working to make Union students more aware of its existance and to try to get more students involved. In order to achieve ~ goal, several ac-- tivities are· p'anned for the upcoming academic year. The Union College group has plans to publish a two-page newsletter to inform students about: prisoners of conscience, the Union group's course of action in individual cases, and. other planned activities and goals. Another project, planned for the winter term is a Human Rights Show, wich will provide en- tertainment with a special human rights message. Besides these upcoming projects, Union · College''s Amnesty Inter~ national will be continuously engaged in advocacy for prisoners in the form of large scale petition, letter, and postcard campaigns throughout the year. Anyone interested in becoming involved with this very ·active and worthy organization should come to the weekly meetings which are heid on Wednesday evenings at 7:00 in the .fourth floor lounge in Carnegie. Amnesty Inter- national also needs actors, writers, singers and technical people to . help out with its proposed Human Rights Show. Anyone interested in this or any aspect of the organization is urged to- attend .the weekly meetings. Most students are not even aware that prisoners of con- science exist and or that they are being treated cruelly in various countries throughout the world. You can do something about it! Join Amnesty International and be aware through involvement! ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS . . MECHANICAL ENGINEERS CHEMIC 4 L ENGINEERS' PHTSICISTS Judge the patentability of scientific and engineering discoveries made by A & D engineers, inventors and scientists world-wide as- a PAT.ENT EXAMINER in Washi.ngton; D.C. ' . · The Patent and Trademark Office has .unique career opportunities· o.ffering . . • Challenge and r:-esponsibility • qareer growth · • Outstanding career Federal Government -servH:~e benefits For more information about your career as a Patent Examiner contact: Manager, College Relations Office of Personnel Patent and Trademark Office Washington, D.C. 20231 Call toll-free 800~368-3064 (703) 557-3631 (Collect in VA) An Equal Opportunity Employer m/f . l.j.S. Citizenship Required FEATURES Eric Lipman, ~ounder of the College Republicans at Union. G.O.P. at Union By BETSYTREITLER Features Staff A selection of students congregated, in Carnegie Hall, in an effort to form tbe College Republicans at Union College. Eric Lipman, one who retains a special interest in politics, called the meeting to acquaint students with a common in- terest in and desire to .get in· volved in political activity. The College Democrats already exist on campus and thus, as Lipman notes, \A bipartisan campus will make it easier to accomplish things.\ Those whQ attended the meeting seem to l>e, according to Lipman, a group of anxious st11dents \all of . whom are interested and willing to take the ·initiative to g-et things done.\ Lipman's determination tQ render the College Republicans a functioning club on campus stems from his personal envy of student Republican representatives on other college campuses. Further, be points ont that a club organization may very well foster each in- dividual's interest since grogp effort often facilitates progress. Lipman refers to the members of the club, not as a \gro11p of Republicans,\ but rather as a group of individuals interested in participating in political functions on campus, in Schenectady County and even Albany. There are no specific expectations for the newly brmed committee, other than the input by members in meetings and activities. Fur- ther, suggestions by the members for activities are encouraged since, as Lipman notes, \There really is no ·leader.\ Hence, cooperation and involvement are vital to the success ofthe club. The members, at the initial meeting, discussed prospects of . drawing up a charter and organizing a board of registration. In addition, members suggested publication of a College Republicans' newsletter which might .include editorials pertaining to politics in general Lipman announced possible arrangements, after speaking with Mayor Duci of Schenectady, for members to work for him in voter registration and campaigns. Lipman spoke of the possibility of inviting people such as William F. Buckley and George Cl{lrk, Leader of the Republican Party of the State of New York · to speak on campus or perhaps be interviewed on WRUC. A debate may also be arranged for students to witness the poli,tical beliefs, attitudes and argmnents o~ Mayor Duci and Karen Johnson who is currently the President of Schenectady City Council and who will be running for the office of mayor. · Lipman concluded the meeting by suggesting prospects for the College Republicans. He noted that Assembly and Presidential elections will be held next year. Since the capital of New York is nearby, resources are available and there will be ample op- portunity for students to get involved in political activities in and around the area. Students, through · participation and moral support may, as Lipman suggests, have a dramatic effect upon the local population and politics. Sorority Rush October 23/ 25, 26 Sign Up: Thursday, Oct. 6 Thursday, Oct. l3 11:30-1:30 ca·rnegie 11:00-1:30 Carnegie 5:00-7-:00 West Dining Hall Friday, Oct. 14 11:00-1:30 Carnegie l1: 00-1:30 West Dining Hall ANYONE INTE:RESTED IN GOING THROUGH RUSH MUST SIGN UP There will be a $1.00 sign up fee

PageS CONCORDIENSIS, October6, 1983 Folllll:lrJ at llmM ColltWt 1877 ----------- -~--~--- Take A Chance One of· Schenectady's most impressive and reknowned landmarks is the Proctor's Theater, a rare vestige of the bygone Vaudeville era. After deteriorating for many years, Proctor's has recently made a . remarkable recovery, and now boasts big- name performers on the classic old stage. A great tleal of money is needed for such renovations, and the community has done a tremendous job of raising capital. Vice President D'Andrea points out that an institution as prestigious as Union should be a strong contributor to its en- vironment, and the student forum agrees. Forum members, assisted by the Delphics, will be selling raffle tickets today, tomorrow and until halftime of Saturday's game. Funds raised will go toward the restoration of Proctor's. Prizes of Proc- tor's show tickets and complimentary dinners at area restaurants, redeemable Saturday night or anytime thereafter, are scheduled to be awarded during halftime. The restaurants include Sunday's, the Oxbow Inn, and the VanDyck, all fine· eating establishments. Tickets cost only fifty cents each, or a book of five for $2, and benefit this very worthy local cause. Alumni, students, and faculty, you can all spare some change which could possibly win you a ''night on the town\ in Schenectady. When a forum member or a Delphic asks you for your support, think of the good that little bit of money will do, and buy a few tickets. Wouldn't it be great if Union could present Proctor's with a check for a couple thousand doHars to help rebuild this city that we so often criticize? The Homecoming This weekend school spirit will be at its annual high point. Alumni return to Union from all over the country to relive some of tile greatest experiences of their college years. The Homecoming Committee has labored countless hours to make this three-day festival a success, and let these few words serv~ as a partial thanks on behalf of the entire campus. An action-packed schedule has been devised, centering around the football game Saturday af- ternoon. Take part in the events, and enjoy the weekend. At the same time, remember that all these good things have been made possible by the hard work of a handful of people whose spirit surpasses that of the entire crowded, shouting stands at tfie field on Saturday. .{t::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::~:=:::::~ ~l~~ · A nENTION j~~\ II SOPHOMORES II ~ ~ ~ ~ .... . . ~\\\ The election to fill one sophomore ~~~l :;:; representative vacancy on the ;~~~ ~ ~ -r Student Forum has been postponed f ~jj\ until Friday, October 14. t ~ ~ .... . ... .... •.·. r Petitions for 100 signatures may ~~) :::: be picked up from Mrs. Marra in :::: :::: the Student Affairs office in Car- ::::. ~ ~ :::: negie Hall, and must be returned, :::: •,o, D.•, ~~~~ along with the candidates' ~~~~ :::: statements, to her by 4:30 p.m. :::! ~ ~ :::: Tuesday, October 11. Candidate :::: ~ ~ :;:: photos will be taken Tuesday night :::: •••• o, ... ~;~~ at 7 p.m. in the Concordiensis ~~i~ =:=: off·, c e. ==== .... . •.. i I . :.: All sophomores are urged to ·:·: ~ * :::: participate and vote. :::: ·.·. . ... .... . •.. •.•. . . ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;:::::::::::;:::::::::::::;:::::::::::;:;:::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::~ .LETTERS Support T:hanked ··And· Requested . To tbe Editor: As concerned Union College , StudentS, we would like to ex· press our sincere thanks for , your support to help Joey Mikaleh, a young Corinth boy in . dire need of expensive medical attention. In only a matter of minutes, at the Union:.Albany State game. on Saturday, we . raised $500. This is a wonderful act of generosity on behalf of . those who gave. For those of you who were not able· to gi:Ve at the tune of this · In this case, time is of the . collection, we have. set up a · essence. We strongly urge methodJor everyone to d~nate.. everyone to donate $1. A.s. a Every · RA, fraternity and· colnl1lunity, our help :-is. plen~, sorority president and depart-· tlfUl. We would like to <Jonate a ment :chatrnian bas been $2500 check to help defray the assigned· to collect a dollar, yes, costs of joey's medical bills so only $1, from every student the doctors can begin tQ willing to give. If you are an Q~f operatedands.ave the life of this campus student or you don't fit· boy. into one of these categories, Thank you for your time and please bring the money to Mrs. support . Marra . in Student Activities office in Carnegie Hall. The pic~ · up date is setfor ~omorrow~ Oct. 7 between l-6. p.m. Cha~ge Noted· Concerned Students To the Editor: Schenectady nas withdrawn.tts. their charity dollars elsewhere. support of Pl~ed Parenthood. Due to public pressure in the This information may be useful Sincerely, Deborah Gray past few years, Unit~d . Way of to those who may want to pledge • Investigate career options and opp()rtu~iti~s. . · · . ·. . . • Meet representatives of national and loc~l business, i~dustry and government. Abraham & Strauss Bambergers Bell Laboratories Burroughs Corporation Central Hudson Gas & Electric C.I.A. Friendly Ice Cream . : .General Dynamics General Motors Hewlett-Packard IBM - . John Hancock Compani~s . . Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. · ·Liberty Mutull,llnsurance Co. . : North.east Savings· U S A , Northwester-n Mutual Ufe Insurance Co. . • . rmy . . Foreign Service· . Peat, MarwiCk, Mitchell & Co. U.S. Navy . ·.Schenectady Trust Co •. Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.· . Texas Instruments NCR Corporation · · ·The Travelers CompaJJies NYS Dept. ofCivii.Ser.vice · Uni:versal.lnstruments Corp. NYS.Office ofGenerlll Services U.S. Air Force NYS Education Department U.S. Marine Corps Wednesday, Oct 12 10 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Alumni Gym All letters to ·the editor must be typed and · received by Con- cordiensis before 3 p.m. each ·Tuesday before publication.. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. Seniors that still wish . to have their senior · picture taken and purchase the. book at · the discounted price; · . please see Mrs. Marra as soon as possible. . . Underclassmen · · Yearbooks will be available at a discounted rate for 8 more days, until Friday, 10/15. The discounted price is $15.50. BUY NOW& SAVEll · Editors-in-chief News Editors Features Editor Associate Features Editors Arts.Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Advertising Editors· Layout Advisor Photo Editor. Associate Photo Editor Sports P~oto Editors Subscriptions Editor PoliticalC~rtoonis~ Julie Abelman, Doug Landon Jay Baruch, Gayle Rosenfeld Donna Getson Dave Fitzgerald, Franklin Schneider Debbie Albert Kar~n Lis8auer Karen Greaves, Jili Kaufman Drew Hurley, Paul.I\urke.r · Mary Ann (lagli~rdi, · · · Heidi Rosen Peter Mohr .Mary Phillips · Daphne Chlgas . Robert Tang, Bonnie Rosenberg · . Loti Kaplan . · .. David Neiblutn . Staff Jan Baran, ·Rich Biegen, Jill Bradley~ Jodi Brenner, Loti George, Sa...\ll Gifford; J!)shGreene 1 · · Chris Hand, Dave Marin, Christine ~arschlng, · RobinMolella, Lori Oliwensteint Diane Pavacic, · Steve·P~aino, linda Raff~ele, Rob Rissell, Debbie Rose, Eric Rosenbloom, Patti Sac.ks, Janice Thompson, Peter S*egeman, Betsy Treitlet, · Philip Westerman, Scott Wykoff, Linda Zahnle:rite:r Photo Staff Jon Barofsky, DaVid Dworkirl, Larry ~ainins~y •. . Liz Karazim, Paul Klein, Pat Merritt; BenHeckscher, Patti Sacks, Larry Shapiro CONCORniENSIS is published .every Thursday by the student body of Union Colle.ge, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308,; Publications Office: Susqueparma Publications, Inct, Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 56a.: 7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first class matter . .Stibscription rate, $18 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States . CONCOitDIENSIS subscribes to the College. Press Setv~ce (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau ( CNBJ. Office Telephone- 37().6155. - • '· i i r

1. CONCORDIENS/S, October 6, 1983 Poge 9 COMME.NTARIES . .......... . . . Every . Thurs~ay ·Comme~tary from 12:30 to 1 :30 ·we·:ha·v~a German S · .. ··h .. ? . -aveT eNott. Lunch Tobie at the Pub. Please ·come ·and loin us for some 1 i g h t con-: versaflon. ·Ever-. yone ls invited-- beginners at the languag.e as weir as experts. STUDENT By MATT'NAN'lCIN. As Union .appr:oaches its bicentennial, one of the most seriotJS questions this school is .facing concerns the .future of the · NQtt Memorial. Although: I cannot argue that any high- calibre liberal arts college does- n't meed a theatre, the Nott is simply under-utilized for this purpose. 11te fact that it is.the centerpiece of the campus and the symbol of Union dictates that it should be · something · more than ttie hollow shell it is now. Now I would like to relate an experience th~t occured last sprlng term while I was in Washington. As one of twenty · Congressional interns who was also taking an architecture course, I. was given the op- portunity to visit the University of Virginia (UV A) in Charlot- tesville. Designed by Thomas Jefferson, UV A is much like Union both in its architectural style and the fact that it also has a campus centerpiece. At UV A, this central building is known as the Rotunda and it serves as a museum for the -archives of the school. I propose that our own Nott Memorial be used for the same purpose. Turning the Nott into. some sort of \Union Museum\ would serve many groups of.people both on and off camptis, including: 1. Alumnil-As a musewn, the Nott could display ciass memoribilia during Homecoming and Com- mencement Weekends. rt would also provide an additional place to meet (besides Lamont House) for visiting alumni. 2. faculty ....... As a musewn, the Nott could have on exhibit published works by our distinguished professors. The current display case on the first floor of the Social Science buildong is both unattractive and inadequate to serve this need. 3. Students--As a musemn, the Nott would create College Work-study jobs as curators as well as providing a place for others like them to absorb the rich history of Union College. 4. Visitors--As a musewn, the Nott would be a place for those unfamUiar with Union to become acquainted with it. During my own first visit to . Union, I was iQstantly \struck\ by the unusu'al sixteen~sided building only to be disappointed to find the doors locked which denied any chance I might have to see the interior . In conclusion, let me take this opportunity to apologize to Arts Professor Barry K. Smith whose faculty office is currently on the second floor of the Nott. It is by. far the most beautiful faculty office in the school and I would not lil~e to see it moved. But the Nott'S current status as a theatre simply leaves the building vacant for too much of the time-and the time has now come for the interior of the building to glorify Union's greatness in the future as much as the exterior has always symbolized it in the past. · ENVIRO.MENTAL ·ALliANCE. GENERAL News-From W ashillgton .·MEETINGS Every thursday at 8:00 ·in the SEA ROOM, 4th . Floor. Carnegie THE ENVIRONMENT NEEDS YOU! ; By JACK ANDERSON · ·and JOE SPEAR W ASHING',!.'ON - When you g-(1.· to .the supermarket you assume that the food you buy is safe to eat, uncontaminated by dangerous pesticides. Don't bet on it. Agricultural products that .are imported . into the United States may contain dangerousa - The RECORD.IIOP is having an organizational · mef;!ting in · Con- . ference Rooin A on Mondciy, Oct. 1 0 at 7:00p.m. If you like new dance music anq. d.j. ing ---come.join! New members welcome·! amounts of poisonous chemicals from· pesticides that are so dangerous their use has been banned in this country. The reason is very simple: American chemical companies are allowed to sell the prohil3ited pesticides to other nations. Their customers often are farmers in underdeveloped Third World nations who either don't know or don't care how to use the pesticides .properly .. The result is contaminated food product~. which are then im- ported into the United States. The Food and .Drug Administration is supposed to make sure that imported foods are · free from chemical con- tamination. But the FDA has no -way of knowing what specific chemicals ·have been used on food . crops, and the govern- meQt's multipurpose tests don't always detect diem. We have seen computer GEE! . 'THANK~ ; \JNCL. E. RoN 1 - -· ...-- ...... ~ \J ---- - - .,J; ~ ~- 7 ~ .. - - < ,... ......... - .....:::::: ' ~-asW.r, aca • 11 printouts of some of the tests conducted by the FDA. Here are some examples of · toxic chemicals that were found in food. products: -Lead, which can cause brain damage, was detected in impo~~l coffee beans. -----:DDT and BHC were found in dozens of imported foods. The former can cause reproductive problems; the latter may cause cancer. -Formaldehyde was found. in large amounts in imported pasta-spaghetti, macaroni and_ rigatoni. This chemical sub- stance can cause damage to the central nervous system· and various other neurological disorders. :._Captan was found in high levels in imported strawberries. This pesticide iS being studied intensively by the government and is suspected of causing birth defects. Congress held hearings last week on legislation that would tighten up controls on dangerous chemicals in im- ported food. But there probably won't be any further action this year to make foods sa.fer. Journalist To Judge?- According to our sources, President Reagan is planning to name J. Harvie Wilkinson Ill to a seat on the Fourth District U.S. Court of Appeals in Virginia. The choice is likely to spark howls of outrage from black leaders and women's groups. Like every single Reagan appointee to Appeals Court judgeships-22 in all- Wilkinson is a male. Like all but one of Reagan's previous selections, . he is white. He also happens to lack previous judicial experience or even much time in the courtroom. He is a lawyer, but he doesn't have the 12 years of active law ex- .perience that the American Bar Association recommends for judges. There were female can- didates available, and they had more experience than Wilkinson. The National Women's Political Caucus gave the Justice Department the names of four qualified women candidates, all of them cour- trobm veterans. The 'White House ignored them. Wilkinson's edge over the competition appears to be his and his family's impeccable ties to the good-old-boy political network in Virginia. For another thing, he's only 38 years old, which means that his conservative views will probably be felt from the bench for 30 or 40 years. There's not doubt about Wilkinson's political con- servatism. Unlike most can- didates for federal judgeships, his .opinions· are on the record. He used to be an editorial writer for a daily Norfolk newspaper, and. he put his opinions down in black and white, day after day, year in and year out. In one editorial, for example, he supported capital punish- ment because, ~'I just don't trust parole agencies. u In another editorial, two years ago, he wrote: \Compulsory busing is madness. Compulsory busing between· city and suburbs is madness multiplied.\ The women's caucus plans to oppose Wllkinson's nomination before the Senate Judiciary Committee. A spokeswoman for the group, Edythe Harrison, said: \If we had offered a woman or black or Hispanic candidate with Wilkinson's experience, we'd be a laughingstock.'' Headlines and Footnotes- American intelligence analysts have concluded that Soviet leader Yuri Andropov does not have Parkinson's disease, as previously thought. Witnesses have reported that he does not have the characteristic shaking in his hands and arms. But he does suffer from a weak heart and bad kidneys. . -The publisher of Hustler magazine recently sent his scandalous periodical to each member of Congress. Many of the legislators reacted angrily and returned the magazine along with long-winded letters of protest. They apparently didn't stop to think that they could have saved the taxpayers' money by simply throwing the magazine away and responding with a letter that would have cost 20 cents to mail . Commentaries Represent the Views of the Author and Not the Editorial Board of Con .. cordiensis. ..

I ' Page10 CONCORD/ENSIS, October 6, 1983 c: ttl E' 'C Ql 'i: LL. (ij .c:. U• .... ~ >- .Q 2~ o. .c: 0. THE ARTS The Restaurant Scene ( The Early Years I By RICHARD BlEGEN The much , maligned Schenectady restaurant scene has been bolstered by the arrival of Sugi (1799 State Street l, the first sushi bar to appear in the capital district since I first carne here in 1980. fhis move was long overdue. as is evidenced by Sugi's growing popularity since it opened quietly last May. The atmosphere at Sugi is excellent; one could spend a romantic evening for two or just as easily bring the whole family. The walls are adorned With Japanese art and pictures of delicacies that are only moments away. The mu.sic of Japan is piped softly into the background. As you enter, your suchi master, or \Itamai\, Tetsuo Abe will bow to you and welcome you. One of the charms of Japanese food is that you can eat it in almost any order. If you are a newcomer to Japanese food, perhaps it is best to ease in with a salad sunomono. Sugi offers a small variety of appetizers, both hot and cold. The hot dumplings in a pungent sauce known as Gyoza, were excellent on one occasion and only fair on another. Yakihama, broiled clams with a strong taste of the sea came out dry and salty and are for hardcore clam enthusiast~ only. All sonos ~ are excellent, particularly Yudofu, a cooked tofu and seaweed soup that can be seasoned to taste with a variety of herbs that accompany the dish. One other option for ap- petizers is to share a sushi roll or sashimi order among two or more people. The sushi at Sugi is quite good despite the limited selection of fish that comes with Schenectady's awkward location. Tetsuo Abe, or just \Tet\ to his regular customers, prepares all the sushi himself with the dexterity that ac- companies his ten years of training. Fans of rolled sushi will be pleased with the Futomaki, a blend of crab, pickles, eggs, and spices surrounded by rice and rolled in a gossamer sheet of seaweed. Also of note are Tekkamaki (rolled tWia), and the exotic Oshinkomaki (pickled eggplant and squash rolls) . Sushi and sashimi can be made to order, or selected as an assortment. Giant clam and <?ctopus are among the best, along with broiled eel in a sweet sauce and pearly yellowtail. Both types of tuna, \Toro\ and \Maguro\ are good and there is usually sahnon and crab roe. Uni, the briny roe of the sea urchin, tasted as if it had been frozen and reheated. There· is also assorted sashimi on a bed of seasoned rice called Chirashi Tetsuo Abe preparing a meal which is an excellent and filling alternative to sushi. Tempura is another one of Sugi's specialities and a good one, especially for those who are not eating sushi. Other non~ sushi dishes are NRbeyaki Udon, a huge helping of noodles, fish, chicken, and Tempura in a misty broth, and Shabu-Shabu, the classic blend of beef and vegetables served with dipping sauces: Yosenabe, is another excellent offering, a soup of shellfish, chicken, fish, and vegetables in an oversized pot which is definitely large enough for two people. It should be mentioned liere that the rice at Sugi is among the best this writer has ever tasted anywhere. There are only a few desserts at Sugi, the only good va.ue is the pineapple. Yokan, the sweet bean curd, was a bit cloying, and the ice ·cream is a bit ex- gensive at $1.50. Sake is available, as is a sweet plwn wine, along with Japanese beer and soft drinks. I suggest that one should make reservations in advance, for Sugi is often busy during dinner hours. American Express and Mastercard are accepted. The food is moderately expenisve, but it is possible to have a complete meal for less than fifteen dollars. ' ByMR.A. It was late ill 1968 when two fledgling songwriters ''apm peared\ on the New York City music scene. Donald Fagen and Walter Becker were still a few years away from the formation of Steely Dan and the top of the charts when they strolled into the Brill Building at 49th and Broadway, which housed some of the .finest pop-songwriters of the period. Having just completed an abbreviated stint at Bard College in upstate New York, Fagen and Becker were eager to sell some of their music, which provided a unique blend of jazz, rock, blues and pop scoring with the cynical off~beat and sometimes ' extremely literate lyrical work charac- teristic of their later offerings. The songs seemed out o£ sync with the trends of the industry and consequently the duo had a great deal of difficulty at the outset.· After repeated efforts the two began to achieve some lilild successes. Some of their early tunes were covered by the Grass Roots, Dusty Springfield and even Barbara Streisand, {\I Mean to Shine\). As for their own musical endeavors-, well, these took a different twist. While serving as back-up musicians for \Jay ·and the Americans\ the boys developed a desire to record some of their own material. The Duo worked with producer Kenny V:ance {head of operations at the Brill Bldg.) and recorded so:me tunes. Some of these early ef- forts surfaced in a 1978 Visa Records release called ''You Gotta Walk It Like You Talk It.\ (This was actually a movie soundtrack.) A 1983 release by AERO Records further documents this Shady period, before thebirth of Steely Dan. \Becker & Fagen, The Early Years'' contains some of the music created by tbe two during the period of 1968-1971. The album consists of a wide range of material, from soul~ rhythm-based \Don't Let Me In'' to the ''Mock Turtle Song'' a nonsense lyrical work set to a to's-ish backbeat. It also con- tains \Brooklyn (Owes the Charmer)\ which also appears on the initial Steely Dan album. The song is somewhat crude and unpolished with. Fageri doing the lead vocal in a Dylan- esque voice. The record provides tl:e listener, in particular the Steely Dan fanatic with an interesting contrast, a look at the very beginning. It reveals the early signs of creative genious which would transform these two eccentric college kids into a powerful entity .in the rock and. pop world. NEWMAN CAMPUS MINISTRY BIBLE STUDY AND DISCUSSION MONDAY 7 p.m. CARNEGIE HALL Campus Ministry ~th Fl~or Office NEWMAN CLUB MONDAYS 8 p.m. · Carnegie Ha II 4th Floor OHice Chamber Music Program at Union Terms Abroad· ·There are· stili a few pl. aces open for winter, 1984 .· By JANICE C. THOMPSON Poulos: flute, Irene Fassler: oboe, Lara Rabin: clarinet, For those students who are David Civale: horn, and . interested in music, Union StefaniE!I Spanier: bassoon. The C<>llege offers many ad- quintet invited the Nor-- vantages. The music lover can theasterly Winds to Union to join organizations such as the perform with them. Other Electronic Music Club vr the ensembles were formed in the Arts Club, he can perform in the Chamber Music Program: a Concert Band, Glee Clubs or the woodwind trio accompanied by Jazz Ensemble, and he can take Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson on the one or more .of the numerous harpsichord, and a string music courses that the Arts quartet accompanied by Clyde Dept. offers. The Chamber Kelly on piano. The three Music Practicwn part ()f the groups performed a recital f{)r Arts Dept. is unique, however, the 1983 Parents' weekend. fr<Jm these clubs and courses. This fall Prof. Hilary Tann, Chamber Music provides an who directs Chamber Music, excellent opportunity for those sent a mass mailing to Union's students who love baroque or student body, informing every contemporary classical music student about the program and that is written for small groups. announcing the date of the first Last year the Chamber Music meeting for those who were Practicum was very successful. interested. Prof. Tann was able One of the groups that were to make up four ensembles from formed was \The Garnet the students who came to the Quintet,\ comprised of Artemis . meeting. This semester there will be the old \Garnet Quin· for every semester they play in tetr\ with Sarah Carpenter a chamber music . group. replacing Artemis PoUlos, who Usually the program involves is in Albany in the six~year med one two-hour rehearsal a week • program; a quartet which will In order for the. ensembles and join with the quintet to form a ·rehearsals to succeed, students \nonet''. to perform Gounod's should practice their individual ''Petite Symphonie''; a piano parts during the week. duet and a string· quartet. , Prot Tann stated that \the r------~- -----' emphasis of this Chamber Music Practicwn is on en- selllble playing, not on per- ' formance.\ The chamber performances last year went well, · howeyer, and she would ' liketo do something like it again this year if the students are willing. The atmosphere of chamber music playing is generally one of informal, . mutual desire to listen to the group as a whole and in· dividually, andtoplaywell. It is , fun, rewarding and hard work. ; Students involved in the i practicwn earn one-third credit : ALL 'CAMP-IJS . YEARBOOK PICTURES Tomorrow, FriCiay, Oct. 7 at 4:30 QnWestWaU program in . Seville, Spain. 1 n ·order. to par- ticipate you m·ust have had~·. a prerequisite of · level 133 or its equivalent. lf you are interested in this program, :please see Joan Freeman or Professor Tho- mas in the Terms Abroad office, H U 21.1. II) f'O ~9l .c: u Q.l c: .c: Q. f'O c >. .Q !!? 0 .c: Q. - iiiii ·- 1 B: 1 his Un on! WE his 176 de I de~ atE Bel des an< Ani {ou his unt Eli] pre on thei Uni can pre: R plm Met dol'l linE Sha Hal1 bull Due ner~ 1858 con< afte Pot1 grar dra' eire stra: dom With set ~ L Ar Imp! Thee Prof· instr 20 sl stud4 hour. Men: in til that they their what Barr. expe1 COllrl M<l Impr skits. de fin lilj:es get t find throt respo ProfE

Page.JO CONCORDIENSIS, October 6, 1983 c: 10 E \0 Q) \i: 1..1.. - Q) .c: u +- ~ >- .0 0 - o. .c: 0. THE ARTS The Restauran,1 Scene By RICHARD BlEGEN The much , maligned Schenectady restaurant scene has been oolstered by the arrival of Sugi (1799 State Street l, the first su.shi bar to nppPar in the capital district since r first came here in 1980. This move was Long overdue, as is evidenced by Sugi 's growing popularity since it opened quietly last May. The atmosphere at Sug1 is excellf'nt: onf' coukl speno a romnntic Pvening for two or just as .-asJly brtn~ the whole fam1lv The walls are adorned with .hpanesP art and pictures of dt>hcacies that are only moments awav. The music of .Japan is piped softly into the background As you enter, your such1 mastE-r, 0r \Itamai'' Tetsuo Abe will bow to you and welrome you. One of the charms of Japanese food is that you can eat it in almost any order. If you are a newcomer to Japanese food, perhaps it is best to ease in with a salad sunomono. Sugi offers a small variety of appetizers, both hot and cold. The hot dumplings in a pungent sauce known as Gyoza, were excellent on one occasion and only fair on another. Yakihama, broiled clams with a strong taste of the sea came out dry and salty and are for hardcore clam enthusiasts only. All souos are excellent. particularly Yudofu, a cocked tofu and seaweed soup that can be seasoned to taste with a variety of herbs that accompany the dish. One other option for ap- petizers is to share a sushi roll or sashimi order among two or more people. The sushi at Sugi is quite good despite the limited selection of fish that comes with Schenectady's awkward location. Tetsuo A be, or just \TE>t\ to his regular cu.stomers, prepares aU the sushi himself with the dexterity that ac- companies his ten years of training. Fans of rolled sushi will be pleased with the F'utomaki, a bler:~d of crab, pickles, eggs, and spices surrounded by rice and rolled in <J gossamer sheet of seaweed. Also of note are Tekkamaki 1 rolled tuna), and the exotic Oshinkomaki (pickled eggplant and squash rolls ) . Sushi and sashirni can be made to order, or selected as an assortment. Giant clam and octopus are among the best, along with broiled eel in a sweet sauce and pearly yellowtail. Both types of tuna, ' 'Toro'' and \Maguro\ are good and there is usually salmon and crab roe. U ni, the briny roe of the sea urchin, tasted as if it had been frozen and reheated. There is also assorted sasbimi on a bed of seasoned rice called Chirashi Tetsuo Abe preparing a mea I which is an excellent and filling alternative to sushi. Tempura is another one of Sugi's specialities and a good one, especially for those woo are not eating sushi. Other non- sushi dishes are Nabeyaki Udon, a huge helping of noodles, fish, chicken, and Tempura in a misty broth, and Shabu.Shabu, the classic blend of beef and vegetables served with dipping sauces: Yosenabe, is another excellent offering, a soup of shellfish, chicken, fish, and vegetables in an oversized pot which is definitely large enough for two people. It should be mentior:~ed here that the rice at Sugi is among the best this writer has ever tasted anywhere. There a·re only a few desserts at Sugi, the only good value is the pineapple. Yokan, the sweet bean curd, was a bit cloying, and the ice cream is a bit ex- pensive at $1.50. Sake is available, as is a sweet plwn wine, along with Japanese beer and soft drinks. I suggest that one should make reservations in advance, for Sugi is often busy during dinner hours. American Express and Mastercard are accepted. The food is moderately expenisve, but it is possible to have a complete meal for less than fifteen dollars. I The Early Years I By MR. A. It was late in 1968 when two fledgling songwriters '' ap- peared\ on the New York City music scene. Donald Fagen and Walter Becker were sti:ll a few years away from the fonnation of Steely Dan and the top of the charts when they strolled into the Brill Building at 49th and Broadway, which housed some of the finest porrsongwriters of the period. Having just completed an abbreviated stint at Bard College in upstate New York, Fagen and Becker were eager to sell some of their music, which provided a unique blend of jazz, rock, blues and pop scoring with the cynical off-beat and semetimes extremely literate lyrical work cbarac- teristic of their later offerings. The songs seemed out of sync with the trends of the industry and consequently the duo had a great deal of difficulty at the outset. After repeated efforts the two began to achieve some mild successes. Some of their early tunes were covered by the Grass Roots, Dusty Springfield and even Barbara Streisand, (\I Mean to Shine\). As for their own musical endeavors-, well, these took a different twist. While serving as back-up musicians for \Jay and the Americans\ the boys developed a desire to record some of their own material. The Duo worked with producer Kenny Vance (head of operations at the Brill Bldg.) and recorded some tunes. Some of these early ef- forts surfaced in a 1978 Visa Records release called \You Gotta Walk It Like You Talk It.\ (This was actually a movie soundtrack.) A 1983 release by AERO Records further documents this shady period, before the birth of Steely Dan. \Becker & Fagen, The Early Years\ contains some of the music created by the two during the period of 1968-1971. The album consists of a wide range of material, from soul- rhythm-based \Don't Let Me In\ to the \Mock Turtle Song\ a nonsense lyrical work set to a to's-ish backbeat. It also col!- tains ''Brooklyn (Owes the Charmer)\ which also appears on the initial Steely Dan album. The song is somewhat crude and unpolished with Fagen doing the lead vocal in a Dylan- esque voice. The record provides U:e listener, in particular the Steely Dan fanatic with an interesting contrast, a look at the very beginning. It reveals the early signs of creative genious which would transform these two eccentric college kids into a powerful entity in the rock and pop world. NEWMAN CAMPUS MINISTRY BIBLE STUDY AND DISCUSSION MONDAY 7 p.m. CARNEGIE HALL Campus Ministry 4th Floor Office NEWMAN CLUB MONDAYS 8 p.m. Carnegie Hall 4th Floor OHice Chamber Music Program at Union Terms Abroad There are sti II a few places open for winter, 1984 program in Seville, Spain. In order to par- ticipate you must have had a prerequisite of level 133 or its equivalent. If you are interested in this program, please see Joan Freeman or Professor Tho- mas in the Terms Abroad office, HU 211. By JANICE c. THOMPSON Poulos: flute, Irene Fassler: will be the old \Garnet Quin- oboe, Lara Rabin: clarinet, tet,\ with Sarah Carpenter For those students who are David Civale: horn, and replacing Artemis Poulos, who interested in music, Union Stefanie: Spanier: bassoon. The is in Albany in the six-year med College offers many ad- quintet invited the Nor- program; a quartet which will vantages. The music lover can theasterly Winds to Union to join with the quintet to form a join organizations such as the perform with them. Other \nonet\ to perform Gounod's Electronic Music Club or the ensembles were formed in the ''Petite Syrnphonie''; a piano Arts Club, he can perform in the Chamber Music Program: a duet and a string quartet. Concert Band, Glee Clubs or the woodwind trio accompanied by Prof. Tann stated that ''the Jazz Ensemble, and he can take Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson on the emphasis of this Chamber one or more of the numerous harpsichord, and a string Music Practicum is on en- music courses that tbe Arts quartet accompanied by Clyde selllble playing, not on per- Dept. offers. The Chamber Kelly on pian(). The three formance.\ The chamber Music Practicwn part of the groups performed a recital for performances last year went Arts Dept. is unique, however, the lg83 Parents' weekend. well, however, and she would from these clubs and courses. This fall Prof: Hilary Tann, like to do something like it again Chamber Music provides an who directs Chamber Music, this year if the students are excellent opportunity for those sent a mass mailing to Union's willing. The atmosphere of students who love baroque or student body, inf<>rming every chamber music playing is contemporary classical music student about the program and genere:dly one of informal, that is written for small groups. announcing the date (){ the first mutual desire to listen to the Last year the Chamber Music meeting for those who were group as a whole and in· Practicum was very successful. interested. Prof. TaniJ was able dividually, and to play well. It is One of the groups that were to make up four ensembles from fun, rewarding and hard work. for every semester they play in a chamber music group. Usually the program involves one two-hour rehearsal a week. In order for the ensembles and rehearsals to succeed, students should practice their individual parts during the week. All CAMPUS. YEARBOOK PIOURES Tomorrow, Friday. Oct. 7 at 4:30 OnWestWal! formed was \The Garnet the students wh() came to the Students involved in the ~Q~um-· __ te_t,~\-c_o_m~p_r_is_ed __ of_A __ rt_e_nns_·~·-m_e_e_tm __ g_._Thl __ ·s __ se_m_e_m_e_r __ th_e_r_e ___ P_ra_ct __ ic_mn __ e_a_r_n_o_ne_-_lli_ir_d_c_r_e_w_t_:~._ .................. .. . ' I j .. l j I l ! , .. .,. .... • l I I '1 ! i \ ~1 1 } 'I II) 10 -~ .c: v Q) c .c 0.. 10 0 >- .0 .E 0 .c 0.. - .. - , I hi UJ or w hi 17 dE dE at BE de an Ar fo1 hil un El pr• on th« Ur C8J pr« I plCJ ME dOl lin Sh: Ha bui Du ner 185 COil aft Po1 gra dra cir· str< don witl set I A lmi The Pro inst 20 I stuc hou: Mer int that the~ thei wha Bar; exp« COUI M Imp skit! defi.J like! get find thro resp Prof

,. I QJ c:: .c: a. ttl Cl >. .0 .e 0 .c:: a. CONCORDIENSIS, O~tober 6, 1983 Page 11 The Only Landmark By CHRISTINE MARSCIDNG This article concerns the history of the Nott Memorial, Vnion's only landmark and the only 16-sided building in the Western Hemisphere. Its history stretches as far back as 1.763 with the birth of its foun- der, Ramee. A man of French descent, he trained in the Paris atelier of Francois•Joseph Belonge during the 1780's. He designed buildings in Hamburg and Denmark before coming to America. Once in America he found little opportunity to apply his at·chitectural knowledge, until' his meeting in 1813 with Eliphalet Nott, Union's third president. From that meeting on these two men combined their talent and desire to move Union from a one-building campus in Stone College to its present state. . Ramee devised a U-shaped plan centered about the Nott Memorial with North and South dormitories as- the boundary lines. The Social Science, Shaeffer Library, Humanities, Hale House, . and Psychology buildings complete the circle. Due to many delays the cor- nerstone was laid on July 28, 1858,45 year.s after the original conception and fourteen years after Ramee's death. Mr. Potter, Eliphalet Nott's grandson, changed the original drawings a bit, He broke the circular plan into sixteen straight sides and, the . original dome was reduced in diameter with an inner ring of columns set atop a drum rising out .of a tower•shaped roof. Then Eliphalet Nott .died in 1866 with his creation no higher ~han the foundation. Finally in 1878 the Nott Memorial was completed. The building is constructed of stone with a_slate roof and a beautiful tile floor imported from England. Along the dome there is a legend in Hebrew reading, \The work is great, the day is short, the master presses the workman.\ The main problem confronting the college was tbat there was no plan as to the Nott's use. For about twenty~ five years after its completion the building lay vacant due to Inadequate heating. In 1902 Andrew Carnegie donated$40,000 to transform the Nott into a library. The first two floors contained Round Oak desks donated by Columbia in addition to many books stacked about the building's inner edges. The upper gallery was made into a museum for the college. The amount of space for books lessened and. the present Rathskeller became a storage area in addi~ion to . a· temporary shed near SDPhi. In 1961 the library in the Nott was moved to the newly completed Shaeffer Library. In 1962 the Mountebanks took over the Nott and transformed it into a theatre. The 1Q5 year old building still stands as a symbol of the spirit of Union and an integral part of its tradition. Although its structure is deteriorating:· the effort that went into its making will never be forgotten. Learning About Art Art 50 is a course in Improvisation offered in the Theatrical Arts this fall term. Professor Barry Smith is the instructor and there are about 20 students in the class. The students gather together for two hours, twice a week in the Nott Memorial. Many of the students in the class have experienced that when they tell friends that they are taking Improvisation, their friends respond by saying what a \gut\ course it must be. Barry Smith's response to this experience is \Sure this is a gut course, I want your~ guts . ., Many people think of Improvisation as spontaneous skits. However, this is not the definition which Barry Smith lil}es to work with. He tries to get the class to go below and find their understanding through the struggle of responses. Barry sets up the Professor Barry Smith confines of the boundaries, and the students then have the freedom to act as they may within the boundaries. The difficulty in explaining this course is that each student found if almost unexplainable. The meaning and un- derstanding of the course is different for each student. Nevertheless, from joining the class for one hour it is obvious that each student is greatly involved and enhanced with· the course .. · The desire to learn and grow as these students are should make every student curious and - desire to take the course. Along with the desire, Barry Smith's comfortable attitude and his excitement for the course should also make students anxious to take this course during their college career. THE ARTS The Nott Memorial Community Arts Calenda T.hea'tre · Octo 4-8- The Glass Menagerie, SUNY A Perfonning Arts Center, 8 p.m. Oct. 7-Hamlet, Siena College, 8 p.m. Oct. 10-These Are Women, The Egg, Albany, 2 p.m. Oct.ll-15-The Woolgatherer, SUNY A Performing Arts Center, 8 p.m. Oct.l2-23-0nce in aUfetime, 2nd Avenue Theatre, Albany Music· ·. Oct. 9 & 16-Free Classical Musical Concerts, Le Chocolatier Latham, 2 p.m. Oct. 5 & 12-Capitol Chamber Artists, Russian Composers, Albany Institute of History & Art, 12:10 p.m. Oct. 6-Mart~a Ston~quist, Pianist, Adelphi Hotel Ballroom, Saratoga Springs, 8 p.m. Oct. 6-8wedish National Orchestra, Proctor's, 8 p.m. Oct. 7-Cathy Winter: Folksinger, 8th Step Coffee House, Albany, 8:45 p.m. Oct. 7-Mikado, Emma Willard School, Troy, 8 p.m. Oct. 8-8erenades, SUNY A Performing Arts Center, 8 p.m. Oct. 8--Jerry Rasmussen, Singer-songwriter, 8th Step Coffee House, 8:45p.m. Oct. 9-Riverboat Ragtime Orchestra, Proctor's, 2 p.m. Oct.lO-Madame Bovary, Siena College, 8 p.m. Oct. 13-Diva, Burnt Hills-Ballston Lake High School, 7 p.m. Oct. 13-8tairway to Heaven, 8th Step Coffee House, 8:45p.m. Oct. 14-Rembrandt Van Rijn: Self-Portrait, Albany Institute of History & Art, 12:10 p.m. Dance, Oct. 7-Berkshire Ballet, .Proctor's, 8 p.m. · Oct. 8-Joffreyii Ballet, Woodstock Playhouse, Woodstock, N.Y., 8:30p.m. General Meeting for a Cabaret Committee • publicity and tickets • kitchen • coordinator of acts • coordinator of workers • treasurer Monday, October 10, 4:30, Cabaret Room WE NEED YOU!! Freshmen and Sophomores Encouraged to Join

, ! l I I I 1 ·J 1 r I , .. ..,. ' I i. \ ~, l ... CONCORDIENSIS, October 6, 1983 Pagel} The Only Landmark By CHRISTINE MARSCIBNG This article concerns the history of the Nott Memorial, Union's only landmark and the only 16--sided building in the Western Hemisphere. Its history stretches as far back as 1763 with the birth of its foun- der, Ramee. A man of French descent, he trained in the Paris atelier of Francols-Joseph Belonge during the t780's. He designed buildings in Hamburg and Denmark before coming to America. Once in America he found little opportunity to apply his architectural knowledge, until his meeting in 1813 with Eliphalet Nott, Union's third president. From that meeting on these two men combined their ta~lent and desire to move Union from a one-building campus in Stone College to its present state. Ramee devised a U-shaped plan centered about the Nott Memorial with North and South dormitories as the boundary lines. The Social Science, Shaeffer Library, Humanities, Hale House, and Psychology buildings complete the circle. Due to many delays the cor- nerstone was laid on July 28, 1858, 45 year$ after the original conception and fourteen years after Ramee's death. Mr. Potter, Eliphalet Nott's grandson, changed the original drawings a bit. He broke the circular plan into sixteen straight sides and the original dome was reduced in diameter with an inner ring of columns set atop a drum rising out of a tower-shaped roof. Then Eliphalet Nott died in 1866 with his creation no higher than the foundation. Finally in 1878 the Nott Memorial was completed. The building is constructed of stone with a slate roof and a beautiful tile floor imported from England. Along the dome there is a legend in Hebrew reading, \The work is great, the day is short, the master presses the workman.\ The main problem confronting the college was that there was no plan as to the Nott's use. For about twenty- five years after its completion the building lay vacant due to inadequate heating. In 1902 Andrew Carnegie donated $40,000 to transform the Nott into a library. The first two floors contained Round Oak desks donated by Columbia in addition to many books stacked about the building's inner edges. The upper gallery was made into a museum for the college. The amount of space for books lessened and the present Rathskeller became a storage area in addition to a temporary shed near SDPhi. In 1961 the library in the Nott was moved to the newly completed Shaeffer Library. In 1962 the Mountebanks took over the Nott and transformed it into a theatre. The 105 year old building still stands as a symbol of the spirit of Union and an integral part of its tradition. Although its structure is deteriorating the effort that went into its making will never be forgotten. Learning About Art Art 50 is a course in Improvisation offered in the Theatrical Arts this fall term. Professor Barry Smith is the instructor and there are about 20 students in the class. The students gather together lor two hours, twice a week in the Nott Memorial. Many of the students in the class have experienced that when they tell friends that they are taking Improvisation, their friends respond by saying what a \gut\ course it must be. Barry Smith's response to this experience is \Sure this is a gut course, I want your guts.\ Many people think of Improvisation as spontaneous skits. However, this is not the definition which Barry Smith likes to work with. He tries to get the class to go below and find their understanding through the struggle of responses. Barry sets up the Professor Barry Smith confines of the boundaries, and the students then have the freedom to act as they may within the boundaries. The difficulty in explaining this course is that each student found it almost unexplainable. The meaning and un- derstanding of the course is different for each student. Nevertheless, from joining the class for one hour it is obvious that each student is greatly involved and enhanced with the course. The desire to learn and grow as these students are should make every student curious and desire to take the course. Along with the desire, Barry Smith's comfortable attitude and his excitement for the course should also make students anxious to take this course during their college career. THE ARTS The Nott Memorial Community Arts Calenda T:.he~itre. ' . Octo 4-8- The Glass Menagerie, SUNY A Performing Arts Center, 8 p.m. Oct. 7-Hamlet, Siena College, 8 p.m. Oct.10-These Are Women, The Egg, Albany, 2 p.m. Oct. 11-15-The Woolgatherer, SUNY A Performing Arts Center, 8 p.m. Oct. 12-23-Qnce in a Lifetime, 2nd Avenue Theatre, Albany Oct. 9 & 16-Free Classical Musical Concerts, Le Chocolatier Latham, 2 p.m. Oct. 5 & 12-Capitol Chamber Artists, Russian Composers, Albany Institute of History & Art, 12:10 p.m. Oct. 6-Martha Stonequist, Pianist, Adelphi Hotel Ballroom, Saratoga Springs, 8 p.m. Oct. 6-8wedish National Orchestra, Proctor's, 8 p.m. Oct. 7-Cathy Winter: Folksinger, 8th Step Coffee House, AI bany, 8:45p.m. Oct. 7-Mikado, Emma Willard School, Troy, 8p.m. Oct. 8-8erenades, SUNY A Performing Arts Center, 8 p.m. Oct. 8-Jerry Rasmussen, Singer-Songwriter, 8th Step Coffee House, 8:45p.m. Oct. 9-Riverboat Ragtime Orchestra, Proctor's, 2 p.m. Oct. 10-Madame Bovary, Siena College, 8 p.m. Oct. 13-Diva, Burnt Hills-Ballston Lake High School, 7 p .rn. Oct. 13-8tairway to Heaven, 8th Step Coffee House, 8:45p.m. Oct. 14-Rembrandt Van Rijn: Self-Portrait, Albany Institute of History & Art, 12: 10 p.m. · ·.. Ba.nce · < • ' I Oct. 7-Berkshire Ballet, Proctor's, 8 p.m. Oct. 8-Joffrey II Ballet, Woodstock Playhouse, Woodstock, N.Y., 8:30p.m. General Meeting for a Cabaret Committee • publicity and tickets • kitchen • coordinator of acts • coordinator of workers • treasurer Monday, October 10,4:30, Cabaret Room WE NEED YOU!! Freshmen and Sophomores Encouraged to Join

Page 14 . ' . .CONCORDIENSiS, .October.IJ, !983 . . . . The Campus Stor·e Welcomes ALUMNI ' . .. . ·. . . - -- p··:R:E.E. -- _·:_ . .. · _. - . . . . . . . . . . · Payne Gate .Print . . . · · . · ·· to :th-e first 2·5 Aluinni · -- · · ·. _- _·• . . . . . . . . . . entering th-e st~:r,~-S~·turday . . . EAGLE.-PEN6L co NEW YORK --- ----- - -~--- I- . . . . .-. . ·. . . . . . . . ' . . - Weekend Specials· Throughout····. -, . . .. ' . . .. The Store, .· BOOKS • STATIONERY' • CLOtHING • GIFTS Visit Our Expanded -_ -· Book Departmen·t . . ' . . . . ' . . . '. - . . . . . - Friday 8:45-4:30 - Satu·rday 10:00-4:00 · . .. . ·• • • s E1 M Di PI ll< Y< \·~ HE RE Er ] 191 Ba .I I . ·E . '

' CONCORD1ENS/S, October 6, 1983 Pagel3 SPEAKERS Two Lectures presented. by the English, History, and Sociology Departments and the Minerva Fund wUl host Bar· bara Garson, speaking oil \The Meaning and Demea11irlg of Routine Work.\ grades K-5. Topics include science, foreign language, computers, crafts, dance, and bicycle maintenance. Interested students can. contact Darlene Ward at x6172. Administrative and Engineering Syst-ems presents Mr. Carmen V. Mazzotta, Director Manage.ment and Planning Service Division Hospital ASSQCiation of New York State, speaking on ''Money and. Mortar-Financing Health Facilities in a Changing Regulatory-Reimbursement Environment.\ This will be held in ·Cameigie Hall 205 on October 11 and she will also speak on 11 Poetry and· Short .story Writing\ at 1:30 p.m. in Hwnanitif!lS 116. HELP WANTED' . Looking for female student to take care of individual recoQperating from stroke (ambulatory). Student may live in. Location: Rotterdam (near shop-0-Rama). Call after 5 p.m. Collect at (617) 256-0985. Mr. James H8nnay. He will speak on October 6, 1983...,3:45 p.m. in Room 312, :Salley Hall, Union College. The,Niskayuna School System is looking for students wh() are interested in teaching after- school classes to studen.ts in Drivers w-ear part time evenings. - HELP WA,NTED . WE NEED VOLUNTEERS FOR THE NEW VOLUNTEER PROGRAM The College enc:ourgages the illvolvement of students in the local community, coosistent with their primary commitment to academic studies, and will provide the following support system for this effort: l-Requests for student volunteers for off campus service should be reffered to Mrs. Lorraine Marra, Coordinator of Student Activities. ~ 2-ldeally, a new student group (similar in nature to the present Big Brothers/Big Sisters program> should be organized to take the volunteer program under its wing. It is hoped that funding for such items as transportation and miscellaneous supplies will be provided through Student Forum request in Spring, 1984. Counter Help-Part time Days. Apply in person at Papa Ciccos Pizza, 109 Canal Sq. Part-time sales to frater- nities, sororities and other campus activities in printed sp<>rtswear. Make your own hours and high commission. Call 462-3838. CLASSJFIEDS Typing for students-knows medical terminology. Please contact Anita at 355-3239. ith· any order of 1o·wings Or More Not V:alid on Specials 'aaffalo Stl'll e . GlllCliD 393-0164 HOURS: '\We Spe.cialize\ Man.- Thurs. 11 a.m.-1 a.m. Fri. and Sat. 11 a.m.-2 a.m. . WJNO WAQON sun:12 p.m.-Midnight 82'7 Mc<;lellan St., Schenectady, New York ' 1 Exclusive Union College Delivery\ $1 .. 00 Tues.-Sun. ·EAT_ IN Every Hour ~p.m.-Midnight TAKE OUT ' - Adult ·Euuca[ion Programs also· · uv:~il:ahiP TEE WORLD IS YOUR CAMPUS TWO AROUND•THE-WORLD SAii:.INGS ·EACH YEAR Departil: irt jan-...ey £nun Ft. t.•dcrdale, . ...,norida 1 with atop• in Soutl'l .Anuria., Africa, ·Soath Alia and the Gricnt, DtpJUt• Suttle iillcptembet' with 11t\opa lft•flac.Oaicnt, South A.sla, the Middle Ea•t- and che \Med.Jttn-aneaQ Sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh, Semester at Se-.i offers students a superior full semester academic program and supJ)orting field exJ>eriences. This one semester, full credit experience is available. to q-.aalified students from all accredited colleges and univ~rsities. · · · 'More than 60 voyage related university courses. Facility <.lrawn from the UniversitY of Pittsburgh and other leading universities, augmente<l by vi.siting area experts. · Optional tou'rs, including special tours into the Pe<)ple's Rep-ublic of China, availahle. Semester at Sea admits students without regardto col<>r, race or creed. The s.s. Unii¥?rSe is fully air-conditioned, 18,000 tons, registered in Liberia and built in America. . For a tree c:olor brochure, write: Seme•teJ~;at Sea, tJCiS, Uniwenity of Pittebar&'h, Forbes Quad.naJle, Pittsburah. PA 1 S~CiO, or call ton free (800) 8S4-0l'S (in Peii.n•r•t-• (4:tz) 614:·60:&1). Representative will be in Carnegi'~~~Hall, 10-3 p.rn ., Oct. 6, slide show .. 014 H U 4:30p.m. · .;:,:.· ' ·cAMPUS NEWS Typing for students-call 346- 5104, Niskayuna area. Typing-370~5222, Mt. Pleasant area. LOST Friday nite at Skellar-Brown wallet with white paint spots. Please contact Rich Baken at 370-4335 or 382-9209 or send Box 136, REWARD! The Rensselaer County Council for the Arts and TRIP Inc. are investigating leasing and cooperative ownership . potential for loftspace in Troy. The meeting will be on October 25th at 7:00p.m. at the RCCA 189 Second St. in Troy. All those interested are invited to attend. For more information call Bill Schroeder at 272-8289. A booklet of guidelines and application instructions should Students' Issues .. Continued from page 2 as a way of raising money, for a donation to :Proctor's renovation. Ticket booklets were distributed to the Forum members, as well as an ex- planation of the raffle rules. The tickets will be on sale until this Saturday's football game, at which point the winners will be announced (at halftime). On next week's agenda, the following are possible topics for discussion: the holding of fresh- man class chapel, the selection of an ISC representative, and Student Awareness Day. be available for .photocopying at the campus student placement office, or wrtite to: Younger Scholars Guidelines, Room 426, The National Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, D.C. Kitchen .•. Continued from page 2 \There's a lot less pressure on you that way,\ he claims, \and it gives you time to im- prove areas you're having trouble in!' Periodically, however, real tests do appear on the screen, and are then returned to the instructors for grading. Most of TeleLearning's 200- some instructors are university and college professors who teach their electronic courses as either alternatives or sup- plements to their regular classes. In addition, several telecourses are taught live at a particular time each day by instructors sitting at their own computers, available to com- municate directly and in- stantaneously with students. Course fees run \about $75, including textbook and in- structor interaction,\ White reports. Education S~cretary Terrel Bell has endorsed the new computer 11Iliversity as a tool which will allow students across the country to \attain a high level of literacy and attain competency in math, science and the use of language.\ AnENTION FACULTY, STAFF, ADMINISTRATORS, STUDENTS, AND FACULTY WIVES: WOMEN 1 5 SUPPORT GROUP Meeting No. 2-Thursday Evening, October6 7:30 -~9:30p.m. Conference Room A- 3rd Floor Carnegie Our weekly meetings to discuss our feelings and experiences as women, in an atmosphere .of mutual conc~rn and support-begin this week. There is still a chance for you to join and share in these meaningful and enriching group dynamics. We welcome all women on campus to particiapte with us. Come Thursday •.• Invite a Friend?! COME AS YOU ARE! . ..,....~..._.,~..,.., ~ PAJIR.\_~ [)ID~,.l~l)I~\srt-\' ,{?J€€O~cf 'f,I-IPOHIUf·1 C THE P.LACE FOR CALZONE & , WHITE PIZZA (OUR SPECIALTIES) • PIZZA FRITE ~ITALIAN SALADS • PASTA DINNERS • MUSSELS- MARINARA TRY OUR SHRIMP SCAMPI ~ AND WHITE CLAM SAUCE PIZZAS C wE8-0 4 EliZVSER OPEN 7DAYS MON.-THURS.-------- 11 AM~11 PM I F. RIDAY-- .._-------- 11 AM-MIDNIGHT SATURDAY---- .... ---- 11 AM-11 PM SUNDAY- - - - - - - - - - 3 PM-11 PM ~~......_~ .. '~

Page/4 SPORTS Athlete of the W.eek By DREW HURLEY Sports Staff Congratulations to junior transfer .student Lisa Rathbun who gains Athlete of the Week honors this week for her efforts in leading the Dutchwomen soccer team to their first two victories ever as a val'$ity Sport. In their first game Lisa scored the D11tchwomen 's wonning goal in .a 2-1 decision over a talented Oneonta State 1eam. The Dutchwomen's next opponent in thei.r young season was· Siena, a r>-0 winner over Union last year. This year Union gained the victory and Rathbun proved to be the ·dif- ference. She scored the wirtning goal at 7: 08 of the overtime period to help Union beat Siena 2-1. Earlier in the game Lisa assisted on Union's first goal with a beautiful setup to Robin Psota. On Rathbun, coach Morrison exclaims, \She is a highly skilled player who un- . . l derstands every aspect of the game.\ Ms. Rathbun, a mechanical engineering major, is from nearby Scotia and attended Burnt Hills High School where she was the soccer team ~s most valuable player her senior year. In 1979 she competed' in the highly competitive Empire State Games. CGngratulations to Usa and best of luck to Marty Morrison's squad · for the remainder of their season. Harriers Downed by Panthers By DAVE MARIN Sports Staff The Dutchmen harriers began their season with a disappointing loss to Mid· dlebury last Saturday. Chris O'Donnell scored first for. the Union men's team, placing third overall with a time of 29:52 and freshman Amy Walsh was the first female finisher for Union placing seventh overall with a time of 20:25. The men's team lost 36-19 on a difficult five and one-half mile course. Inga Stockman, Union's top woman runner, fell on rough ground · dilring her race, resulting in an ankle injury which hindered her perfGrmance and may affect her the rest of the season. Despite Saturday's losses, Coach Russ Ebbets remains optimistic. He attributes at least part of the results tG \food problems\ referring to what three of his top runners ate for dinner Friday night. He was quick to point out, however, the fine performances of sophGmores Chris O'Donnell and Tim Orcutt (third for· Union in 30:44) and freshmaJI Neil Ricks (fourth in 30:50), Mike Reed (sixth in 31 : 44), and Pete Granger (eighth in 32:30) who \ran very well fGr their first college outing.\ . Other Union scorers were Bill McRoberts (second, 30:13), Inga Stockman (second, 20:39),. Jenny Snover (third, 23:29), Judy Steinhard (fGurth, 24:18), and Marianne Hladik (fifth, 25:47). Union now travels to Hamilton on Sattll\day to face the Continentals at 2: 00. ... UniOn crew revival? Stroke! Stroke! ByJ.C. Sports Staff · Crew~ a sport which ha<l been forgotten at Union for many years, was reintroduced this fall. Because of a lack of media coverage, great expense, arid a dependency on clam water, rowing is a sport which is un- familiar to many. Union saw its last in- tercollegiate crew te;,un over one hundred years ago in 1876. The fraternities Kappa Alpha, Alpha Delta Phi and Sigma Phi all started clubs between 1863- 74. Followed by the fraternities, the Boating Asso-ciation ·of Union College enjoyed two years of intercollegiate rowing in six:~ared shells. We rowed against such schools as Har- vard, Yale and Dartmouth, to name a few. '. Crew jS making a comebac:k at Union. During the activities e~po two weeks ago, som~ mnety students, both male and female, showed intelleSt in giving rowing a.try, . ... The Mohawk River provides an ideal environment for rowing. A local rowing club has agree~ to a~ist in getting Union on the water once again, but shells, oars, and other equip- ment must be obtained to properly fa~ilitate crew club members. .lf we are to meet present. goals, equipment must. be purchased or rented and a faculty adv~sor obtained by the spring semester.. · For more infonnation, call or write John Ciovacco, Sox 614, 382-9366 .• J!tr· . .· Intramural Spot .J!fe By G. W. Sports Staff This year's first intramural spotlite award focuses on .Bill Scanlon 'for his participation in the fall golf tournament sponsored by the intramural department. CGach Scanlon outclassed the rest of the scheduled 15 person field by shooting a blitzing 76 on ·the Schenectady MUNY · . golf course. His 36 on.the front nine was .Qnapproachable -by the other golfers. His tremendous play and enthusiasm earned him due respect from his competitors. Special congratulations--and the spotlite trophy-is presented to Coach Scanlon. Lady Rooters Win Two ByCPSIS Sports Staff Last week the Union College women's soccer team posted two victories. These victories, the first two ever for the young UniGn boGters, will serve to bolster their confidence for the upcoming season. Coach Marty Morrison, in her first year piloting the club,. attributes a change in attitude as well as a \dedication tG winning\ t.o the early success of her squad. /In their first game ~ast ·week, they nailed down a 2·1 decision INTERESTED IN A MASTERS DEGREE IN ACCOUNTING? BUS I NESSADMI NISTRATION? PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION? Discover Rice University'·s Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Administration- -a representativewill be on campus on ... October 7, 1983 For Further Information, Contact: Career Planning & Placement ····································································· Please send an application and a brochure about Rice University's JONES GRADUATE SCHOOL to: NAME (pleaseprint) --~---------------~------ ADDRESS ---------------------------------------- CITY --------~STATE _________ ZI P---'--~------ COLLEGE _______ ~------DEGREEDATE __________ __ RICE UNIVERSITY JONES GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ADMINISTRATION P.O. Box 1892 HOUSTON, TEXAS 77251 (713) 527·4893 Rice University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution. over a tougt Oneonta team before· the home crowd. The game was tight most of the way with all of Morrison's hooters getting lnto the action. Union scored their first goal with ten minutes left to play. Astrid Morsch got credit for the Union tally which resulted from a defensive mishap. The winning goal was scored . by Lisa Rath- bun, a junior transfer from Scotia. The second victory came· against Sienna, a team that had overpowered Union 5-0 last year: Union jumped on the scoreboard first as Robin Psota converted. a nifty pass from Lisa -Rathbun. Sienna tied the score despite the efforts of netminder Jane Webb who inspired the team with crucial saves late in the game. The winning tally came in the first overtime session on a twenty yard blast by none other than Lisa Rathbun. This week the team travels to RPI and Sienna, all are en- couraged to cheer on the ,lady hooters. · . .c: ·'~ \ Union's Rebecca Clemente shown here in Union's 2-1 win against Sienna. The Dutchwomen have won their first two games after being winless as a varsity sport. Support Union Sports! I.. OJ :::'! 4- Ia Q. > .0 ~ s::. Q,_ Cl '- Q,) .D. c Q,) VI 0 ~ Q,) ·c: c: 0 a:l > .D. 0 +- 0 .c: Q. • - - - F ~ str. fie scr } thE sqt am Ski na, tra Tht ' ' \' ·_: ... \., so~ Du· sufft Han thei1 nigh har< pGW Satu defe gam Th hard RPI dom howl ball Th fere1 agai SCOfl ganJ morr. eight lone sopht ass is this careE Skid! swer1 1. A c 3.\ 4. H 5. VI 6. 5I 1. 51 8. M 9. Ct . 10. I 1.11 2.5 3. 11

•Y Ol L. Q.) .0 c Q.) tn 0 et: -~ c c 0 co >- .0 0 +- 0 .c Q. . CO/VCORDIENSI$, (Jctober 6, 1983 Page 15 Field·· Hockey Rebounds vs. Wells By D.M. and V.M. Sports Staff Snapping a four game losing streak on the road, the women'S fieldhockey team edged a scrappy Wells. team 3-2. . Although Union outshot RPI, the Dutchwomen lost . a squeaker 1-0. The team suffered · another .l()ss at the hands of .Skidmore, losing · 3-1, again naving to make ' the . difficult transition from turf to grass. The Union squad m9ved on to · ' tory. · · : Oil Tuesday, Union trav~led to Ham.ijj.m. Unioll played · ~n aggressive game, onJ,y t~ .come up· shOrt 2•1. Hamilton caught Union off~guard with a goal in _ the opening m.,.utes of. the game. Senior Mary McGrath put her ...shot . by Hamilton's goalie, assisted by Moskaluk and Fit2:simmons. Hamilton · pulled ahead in the second ·half to win the close contest. Friday night, the Dut· chwomen returned to the tur.f to score. The teams went into ·a grueling ten minute overtime. Rochester scored with only · tbree minutes left. The Union · squad was unable to put another · one into the goal. Playing wen on defense were freshman Fran Czajka, and Fitzsimmons. Union went on to defeat Wells on -Saturday, 3--2. Union outshot and out-hustled Wells but still found theoselves trailing 1-0 at the half. Union came ·out fired- up and went on to score 3 unanswered goals. McGrath with her intense play around the goal forced Union to be awarded a penalty shot. Moskaluk was elected to take the shot and flicked it by the Wells goalie. Once again Union went on at- tack and kept the ball in Wells half of the· field. Tyree crossed the ball to Washburn, who finessed the ball around the goalie. Union forced eight penalty corners in the second half, McGrath hit the ball out to Fitzsiinmons on the corner. Fitzsimmons easily put the ball by the goalie with her powerful drive. Wells put another goal in, but were unable to break through Vnion's defense. Sophomores, Janet Schiefer· decker and Linda Nelson distributed the ball well to the offense. Sophomore I ink Cheryl Washburn attacks the Wells goal. The Wednesday, Union faces a tough undefeated Oneonta squad. On Saturday the Dut· chwomen take on the Alumni at 5:00, come and support the Lady Stickwomen. Dutchwomen were victorious on the turf 3-2. suffer a close road loss to H8mi1ton, 2·1. Returning to their home surface on Friday night, the stickers suffered a hard-fought loss against powerful Rochester. On Saturday, the team went on to defeat Wells in a well played game. The season started out with a hard fought game against the RPI Engineers. Union dominated ' the first half, however, they couldn't get the ball past the RPI goalie. play their best hockey yet this season. Union 'played a smart game, W'orking the ball well up the field. Losing 3-2 in overtime, the young Union squad forced the Rochester Powerhouse into overtime. Union's defense l:' played very well together. _g Sophomore, Jean Hernon ffi displayed great stickwork, ~ recording seven defensive ~ saves. Goalie Vera McCarty 'E ' ........ ~ ~.~~ i;.~->' Fran Czajke (11) and Diane Moskaluk (23) head upfield. Sports Talk WithSCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff Fall is one of the busiest times of the year for both Union sports and also sports on the major college and professional levels. In an attempt to touch a number of bases, here's a little bit of this mixed with a bit of that. Nlgbtshlt-Congratulations to all those involved with the Capital District football showcase that took place here last Saturday night. Barring a single minor incident, the entire evening went off without a hitch. Extensive planning by the athletic department, mixed with alot of . pre-game preparation, .ensured that all in attendance would be able to enjoy the contest without aggravation. We salute all the behind the scenes people -that put in long hours all week and especially for the twelve hour day on Saturday that culminated in our Dutchman's 24~7 trouncing of those Great Danes from down the road. Time Sharing-It will be interesting to see how the ratings for the Major League Baseball do ln comparison to college football and ·the NFL. The last month has perenially been the tough 30 days for baseball as fans interest is split between the pigskin and the rawhide. Network officials hope that the playoffs and World Series will rekindle the mid summer months baseball fever. The mere fact that the White Sox· will be in the playoffs will improve ratings as the windy city is still one of the nations largest markets. Action, Action-Though Dutchman football, soccer, and cross country teams are grabbing all the headlines, winter athletic teams are now involved in pre-season captain practices. Both basketball and Hockey have high hopes for the upcoming '83-'84 campaigns. These two sports could possibly be the most gruelling of all at Union as their seasons basically start the day school starts with captains practices and do not end until late winter tenn. Joe Wood is presently putting the hoopers thru pre season workouts while Jamie Knight and Gil Egan can be found running practices over at Achilles. . Battling Booters-Last season was one of the leanest years for Union soccer in recent time. Coach Mag_ee was determined at the end of last fall to make sure soccer at Union returned to the level that has :come to be expected over the ten year rein of Magee. Dutchman soccer returned to school late this summer for pre- season workouts greatly im- proved fronn one year ago as Magee was able to convince twenty top high school seniors that Schenectady was the place to be. Union was also fortunate to have the services of John MacNamara back after a short stint as women's head coach at Cincinatti. At press time the hooters owned an impressive 2- 1·1 record with high hopes for post season play. Youth has played a major role in the squads early season fortunes with freshman Jimmy Monks leading all scorers while classmate Guy Claveloux has shown the potential to become one of Unions best fullbacks ever. Drive for' Five- Yet another pro sport rolls into its regular season this week. The NHL coming off one of its most successful seasons in '82-'83 hopes to keep the momentwn rolling thru this winter. Attendance was up all over the league while fighting was cut to a minimum. But some things never change as it looks like the Islanders will be a good bet to become the only team in the leagues history to win five straight Stariley cups. Chicago, Edmonton and Boston all have a chance at the Islanders if they don't burnout to early prior to the playoffs. The Dutchwomen then suf- fered a disappointing 3·1 loss against Skidmore. Skidmore scored seven minutes into the gan:Je. · Union picked up the momentum and tied the game eight minutes later. Scoring the lone goal for UnLm was sophomore Julie F.itzsimmons, assisted by Dianne M( skaluk; this being Fitzsinuno 1s' first career goal. In the se( ond half Skidmore tallied tw•l unan- swered goals to notch the vic-· played a heady game cutting off § ' the angles and causing her Ill opponents to shoot wide. ii McCarty recorded seven saves E by clearing the ball out of the ~ circle consistently. However:, Roc~.ester broke through the de:ense and scored. Cheryl Washburn evened the scqre by - blasting the ball by Rochester's goalie with only two minutes- left in the first half. Union opened up the second half with another goal · scored by Moskaluk, assisted by fresh· man Lillian Tyree. Rochester came back and evened the Rugby Drops Opener NCAA Div. m Football Poli 1. Augustonct; Rockland ill (3-0) · Carnegie-Mellon, Pa. (4-0) 3. Wisconsin LaCrosse· (5·0 4. Hofstra, NY (4·0) 5. Wartburg, Iowa (4·0) 6. Salisbury St., MD (4·0) 7.St.John's,NY (4·0). 8. Mt. Union, 0. (4·0') 9. Case Western, 0. (4·0) · 10. Union, NY (3-0) · - Soccer .•. · Continued from page 16 The second half opened with the game tied 1-1. Union started· strong, firing testing shots at the opponents keeper. At the 21:47 mark, .Zeifang alertly capitalized on a direct kick from 20 yards out, surprising the goalie with a blast into the lower right corner of the net. Union maintained their composure until the 34:26 marl!;. The Dutchmen were again haunted by their lack of in· NEFNL tensity as a lone Colonial striker contested the Union defenSe 'aDd Northeast Poll fired a weak shot into the net. 1. Union \It's hard to build for 30 strong minutes and score one goal only 2. St. Lawrence to let the other guys tie on a 3. lth11ta freak goal/' Magee stated. \I 4. Tufts don't think that theere was 5. WPI anybody on our team, or for that t---E•C•A•C•U ... ps-1-at_e ___ . - fact, Ginghamton'·s team, that felt that we should have lost our New York lead.\ Coaches Poll Union played yesterday against their ti.·i-city rival, Albany State, and will take the field this Friday night against the Varsity alunuti. 1 • Union 4. Buffalo St. 2. St. Lawrence 5. Univ. Buffalo 3. Ithaca By PHILIP WESTERMAN Sports Staff The Union ·College Rugby Football Club was handed it's first defeat of the fall season with a 15;() loss to the Hamilton Continentals. Union's players fought a rigorous battle but were consistently plagued by penalties. At the end of the first half, Hamilton led 6..0. Union came out flying in the second half sweeping the ball into Hamilton territory at least ten times. However, penalties forcedthe Dutchmen to give the ball back to Hamilton. Union finally scored on a dazzling run by Eric~·serrilli. John Wilbur then capped the first try with an extra point kick.. Union just could not hold on as Hamilton put three penalty kicks through the uprights for an additional nine points. Union's B side played their Intercollegiate • Basketball: Team tryouts for the intercollegiate basketball team will begin on Saturday, · October l5at8:30 in the Fletct House. All candidates must have a physical prior to . thisdate. Physlcals··October 9 (Sunday) at 7:15 Tr;;Hning Room (Achilles Rink) Pre-physlca ts··week of October 3·· Training Room,9-1i:30a.m., 1·2p.m. Co-Captain John Tierney delivers halftime pep-talk during the ,rugby club's opening loss to Hamilton 15-6. Union RFC looks to rebound Sat. as they face Albany Old Green on Library field. hearts out but were edged 9-6. · included John Tierney, Gene Despite the loss, co-captains Gas, Mike Katz, Pete Ladd, Ed John Tierney and Steve Pat- Hart, and John Friske. terson were very impressed ·Union plays it's second match with their hard hitting per- this Saturday at 10:30 against fonnance. Union's scoring was Albany Old Green at Library done by Tim Riley who dashed field. The Union Ruggers into the try zone untouched by always appreciate support and Hamilton players. Matt would like to thank the people Chambers then kicked the extra who came· last Saturday to tJOint but it was not enough to cheer them on. New players are catch the Continentals. always welcome, any weekday Although Union lost both at4:00 by the flagpole in front of games, the players were happy West College. Come out and with their performance. Out- cheer the Union Ruggers to standing players for Union victory this Saturday.

. ~·; Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, October 6, 1983 PO ... beat Ha·milton 5-l, tie Binghamton Penalty Shots Boost- Union 1- 0::: >- .c .E 0 .s:: a. ByPETER'STEGEMANN and SAM GIFFORD SportsStaff I This past week, the Union boaters were able to find the net as they downed Hamilton 5-l and tied Binghamton 2-2. 'Fo date, the Dutchmen have registered a ~-1-2 record. The team still feels very optornistic as they sense their play starting to gel together.·· The freshmen are becoming more familiar with college .soccer now which is evident by the recent success of the squad. Against Hamilton, penalties proved to be a critical factor. The Dutchmen Standout fullback Greg Claveloux evades a Hamilton. defender en route to a 5·1 Dutchmen victory. -... tennis rebounds NetResul~ By JILL BRADLEY Sports staff After a tough loss to Albany State last week, the Union College women's tennis team was hungry for a victory. The Dutch women finally ended their three-game losing streak last Friday with a devasting win over Russell Sage. Mthough the team had a difficult time in the beginning of the season, it certainly looks as though they have regained their confidence. Overall, the women displayed some fine tennis against Russell Sage. The most deserved win goes to first singles player Julie Miller who demohstrated in- credible endurance and determination after losing the first set to her aggressive op.- ponent, Sue Getchell. Com- bining her great abilities and her refusal to quit. Julie went on to win her match (Hi, 7-5, 6-0). Julie's undefeated record deserves much praise! Fellow teammates Susan Slavkin (second singles) and Rita Lindenburg (third singles) were. highly\ motivated for victories. Both stated, \We're confident that we're going to win.\ Their scores (6-1, 6-1) and (6-0, 6-2) show their perseverance. Also winning their singles matches were freshman dynamo Meredity McCarth (6-0, 6-1), and Robin Leichman, who .after split sets came back with flying colors to triumph over her opponent (6-4,5-7, 6-3). The first . doubles team of Lorna Rush- worth and Linda Espisito played to their full potential · w.inning ( 6-2, 6-1). Coach Anna Means Spoke highly of the pair. \They came to the net well and played very aggressively.\ The second doubles team of fresh- men Judy Philipson and Gail Tankel also exhibited some fine tennis. They made short work of their opponents (6-o, 6-0). The Dutch women . deserve to be commended for their fan- tastic comeback. Their determination and motivation shows. Come watch the Dut• chwomen defeat their next rivals! 1- ,~ >- .0 .2 0 ..c: Q,. Third singles player Rita Underberg approaches a l.ow backhand while devastating her Russell Sage opponent 6-0, 6·2. The Out· chwomen currently sport a 2·3 record. capitalized on three of four penalty kicks which prov~ to be enough to put · the Con· tinentals out of the game~ The ·penatly shots gave Coach Magee an oppc;>rtunity to give more playing time to his . promising freshmen while also giving the entire squad con- fidence.· The game started with Union dominating play ear}y. A problem haunting the. Dut· chmen all year is a momentary lapse that allows the opponents to reorganize. This was just the case a·s the C9nt1nentals penetrated into the Dutchmen defense. A pass from the left corner caused confusion in front of the Union goal mouth, resulting with the ball trickling into the net. In disbelief, the Dutchmen saw themselves trailing 1-o. Magee was wary of this score because he's seen previous Union clubs dominate action. and end up losers by nine goal. · Less than a minute after Hamilton's goal, Union forWard Jim .Monks converted the first of these penalty shots after a hand ball was called. With 2:01 left in the half, junior Peter Stegemann found himself on a greak toward the goal. Before he could unleash a shot, he was tripped in the penalty area, once again giving Union a penalty kick. This tin'le, however, Monks missed his mark ending the half at 1-1. Freshman Bob Crandall quickly put Union ahead 2-1 as he received a beautiful 'back pass from classmate Doug Wilk. Crandall's 25-yard blast was his first collegiate score. Union lost no time capitalizing again. Steve . Hartman was involved in the team's third and fourth penalty kicks as he was tackled· in the penalty area twice. Captain Bernie Zeifang and Crandall converted these final two free shots. The Hamilton goaltender was quickly tested a final time at 5:36 remaining. Stegemann drove from midfield, passed a fallen defender, and delivered the ball into the lower left earner of the goal. The game ended and Union had Freshman forward Victor· .Davis neatly .traps the· ball as Pete Stegemann looks or:r, the Dutchmen defeated Hamilton, SPORT.S HAPPENINGS Oct. 7-14 v. Football J.V. Football Men's Soccer J.V. Soccer X Country Volleyball Oct. 8Colby Oct. !Oat HVCC Oct. 10 Kings Point Oct.IS at RPI Oct. ·li RPI Oct. 14 at RPI Oct. 8 at Ha.milfon. 1:30 7:30 3:00 11:00 3:30 7:00 2:00 (Colgate., Utica) Oct. 8 P·ace 11:00 Field Hockey Oct. BAiumni S:QO Oct.lllatVassar · 3:31J 6c.t.IQatW.iliiams 3:30 W. Soccrer Oct. 8 Hamilton 10:00: Oct. 10 at Williams 4:00 - Oct. 12· Colgate 3:30 Tennis Oct. 8 at West Point 11:00 Oct. ·10 at Vassar 3:30 Oct. 12 at Williams 4:00 Oct. 11 Albany 7:00 Rugby Oct. B Albany Old G~een 10:00 Oct. 13 aH.emoyne 6:00 (Rochester) SCOREBOARD Union 41 Union 23 Union 24 Union 2 Union 2 FOOTBALL (J Ol u. of Rochester 7 Hooarto Albany St. 7 W. SOCCER (2-0J Oneonta 1 Siena I (OTJ M. SOC.CER (2·1·2) Union 2 St. Lawrence 1 Cortland 2 Union 1 Union 3 Army 3 (OTl Unions Hamilton 1 un;on 2 Binghamton 2 (OTl FIELD HOCKEY (1·5) R-P11 Union Skidmore3 Hamilton2 (Postponed) u. of Rochester 3 Union3 Middlebury 2 Union 0 Sage Union 1 Union 1 Union2 (OTl Wells 2 Union 1 satisfactorily avenged several ·disappointing outings against Hamilton. Saturday, the Dutchmen traveled to Binghamton to face New York's sixth ranked Colonials. Once again, the Dutclunen managed to let a hard earned lead slip away.,In the opening minutes Union lacked the de~ire and intensity they had shown in their previous Union Skidmore 5 Hamilton 6 Albany St. 4 Union 7 un·ion6 TENNIS(2·3'l (Postponed l Colgate Uni.on 2.- • Union 1 Union3 Russell Sage 0 Middlebury 1 VOLLEYBALL (0·4) Skidmore 15-1, 15·4, 15·6 Union Union Union Union Army 15·4, 15·9, 15·6 Vassar 15-12,15-8,15-5 New .Paltz 7·15, 15·4, 15·5, 15·11 MEN'S X-COUNTRY (0.-11 Middlebury 19 Union 36 RUGBY (0-~l Hamilton 15 Unlon6 contest. Binghamton capitalized on some · lackadaisical play by Union, netting their first goal in the first ·six minutes of play. Soon afterwards, Union began to dominate play and was rewarded as Monks cleanly beat the Binghamton goalie from t}Velve yards out on a beautiful pass by Wilk. · Continued on page 15 Spikers Off to Slow Start . . By JODI BRENNER Sports Staff Mter four matches and four losses the Union College women's volleyball team must be commended for its- hard work and. strong spirit as it continues ironing out problems that exist with any young squad. The season began with a depressing loss to $kidmore where the team members could not coordinate their plays or their footwork. Then West Point came up and took command of Union's home court. They left with an easy 3..() victory. Next year the West Point women will advance from division two to division one. The Union team, currently in division three, will miss the challenge of competing against the Army's women. This past week added two more losses to Union's record as Vassar's short but quick squad squeezed a victory winning 15- 12, 15-lt Union's second match that evening was quite promising. The girls defeated New Paltz 15-7 in the first game. However, Union lacked enough aggression and lost the next two games 15-5, 15-11. Union's of .... fense has not been as potent as it has been in past yeats. The spikes and blocks were not abundant enough to hold New Paltz. · Inexperience seems to be the major problem confronting the Dutchwomen. The team's co-:- captains, senior Jodi Brenner and junior Cheri-Ann Wong are the only upperclass returning players, while sophomores Suzette Collier, Kristine Ger- nert ·and Mary Forbes are the three returning underclass players. The new team members, sophomores Sarah Levin and Janet Keyes and freshmen Barbara Brady, Usa Fratianni, Wendy Coccucci, and the York · Exchange StudE)nt Hellen Challis bring some fine talent to Union's squad. Usa, working as .second setter to Cheri Wong, is doing an excellent job setting. other promising notes include the play of Barbara who has a great deal of potential as a hitter with her fierce spike. The new members seem to be learning the· Dutchwomen' s strategy rapidly as Coach Barta consistently works on the basic Bwnp-Set-Spike. Dutchwomen. (I · to r) Chris Gernert, Mary Forbes and Llsa Fratianni are looking to rebound from an 0-4 start. .~ I' ' 01 .... Cll .c c ~ 0! .!!! r:::: c 0 Ill >- .0 ~ .s:: a. ::;.. ~ ~ '- \' Ill r:::: 0 .. >- .0 0 -· 0 .s:: a. - ( - .P or ( L pro mQ cai Tlu to 1 bee Fir Cer we• anc act stlll con the· stu pos me: me Fin ass. par exe to 4 the gro A pro selE for gro Cou jwr Tor: Pal bee pro: To: the car1 sun to · dev R assi car~ G~o pro: ofl: and Cer: que use1 find add iS b. mOJ Dev Pal wor pro~ peoJ resc

I ' ' r ..... --.e.,ar Alumni, Parents &Friends: On behalf of the, Alumni Council of Union College and the Student Homecoming Committee,. we would ..... -~ like to extend a cordial im•itation to you and your family to join us and the entire Union family for \Horne Sweet Homecoming '83.\ This year's theme commemorates the 160th anniversary of the writing, of \Home Sweet Home\ by Union graduate John Howard Payne, Class of 1810. Once again, an outstanding schedule of evems has been developed for your enjoyment. Highlights include: a special \Convocation of Achievement\ on Saturday morning celebrating the achievements of the \Campaign for Union,\ the 4th Annual Homecoming Parade, and a football game in which the Garnet (8-1 in '82) will take on Colby. · We anticipate a great weekend and we hope you'll come home for it. Your Homecoming Chairpersons, Robert L. Bruhn '69 ' ' ' Kathryn L. Mullaney '74 Gail B. Mund '84 Welcome Home! By :DAVE FITZGERAU> Associate Features Editor Plcmning began last Spring Term . to · insure that Homecoming '83 is the best yet. A wide range of activities are planned for this weekend in- chiding Gomedy with Billy Crystal, Coffeehouse, Cabaret, President's' Reception, the 4th Annual Homecoming Parade, and the Football game against -Colby. The_theme for this.year is \Home SJNeet Homecoming.\ It is hoped .by the committee that alumni, parents, arid . students have a good time this weekend and take the op- portunity to participate in the many . events occuring this weekend. For students Homecoming weekend begins Thursday with the Fl()at Construction Party. A number of groups have entered flo~ts this year and this is the best time to build them. It is always amazing to see how some wood, chicken wire and tissues combine into the floats everyone enjoys seeing in the Homecoming Parade. Every group that enters a float in the parade has a shot at winning cash pr~zes for their group. The Float Construction Party is a great place to get to know the members .of your floor-dorm- fraternity-sorority better so if you have nothing to do on Thursday night, come up to the tent next to the fo()tball field and help build a float. Homecoming Weekend is a special time when the College's Alumni return to the College to remember the good times that they had and to have fun. A large number of people have worked hard to make · this weekend a success. It is hoped that the students realize the history behind Union and Homecoming and that everyone feels the Special atmosphere that makes Homeco~ing and Union College special.

PageB HOMECOMING, OcttJber 1983 Home SweetHomecoming-Oct 18 &9 J H~. Payne Honored By .JULIE ADELMAN . . · · John Howard Payne, a member of the Union CQUege class of 1810, and co~poser qf \Home· Sweet ·nome,\ is honored this weekend at. Homecoming. This year marks . the . 160th anniversary or the writing of t~s famous song. Although· Payn~ was honored during ~nd after his lifetime for his aqthor$hip .of \Home Sweet Home,\ the song has deprived him of fuller recognition as an actor, playwright and editor. He was America's first actor to achieve an international reputation, its first playwright. to be presented abroad, an editor of talent, a diplomat who first raised the Stars and Stripes on Ttmisian son and a champion who risked his reputation on behaif of the American Indian. Payne was the sixth of twelve children born to William and Sarah Isaacs Payne. His father was a physician and school teacher, a descendant of· an Payne Gat~, the main entrance ·at Union, was dedicated at com· early settler of Massachusetts. mencementexerciseson-JIS'ne 13,1911 Home, Sweet Home id pleasures and palaces, though we may rqam, Be it-ever so humble, rhere's no place Hke home. A charm from the skies seems to hallow us there, Wh.~ch, seek thro' the world, is ne'er met with elsewhere; Home! Home! Sweet, ~weet home; There's no place. like home, · There's no place like home. ' J An exile from home, splendor dazzles in vain; Oh give me my lowly thatch'd cottage again; The birds. singing gaily, that come at my call; Give me them with that peace of mind, dearer than .all. Home! Home! Sweet, sweet home; There's no place like home, There's no place like home. .~ How sweet 'tis to sit 'neath a fond father's smile; And the cares of a mother' to soothe and beguile; Let others delight 'mid new pleasures to roam, But give me, oh give me, the pleasures of home. Home! Home! Sweet, swe.et home. But give me, oh give me, The pleasures of home. To thee I'll return. overburden' d with care, The heart'~ dearest solace will smile on me there; No more f'r·om that cottage again will I roam, Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home. Home! Home! Sweet, sweet, home; There's no place like hom~ There's no place like home. . john Howard Payne . Union, Class of ,aw SLIDE· LECTURE ·With Stephen Pentak, '73 on his painting and drawing. Friday at 11 a.m. in Arts Bldg., Room 104 Students and Faculty are invited .;;s:;;:::::::::::-:.:::::::;r;.:;:.:.::::-:.::.::.;..:~:.::~::::::~:;:::::;.:::~:~'?.<-:=~-::::~::::::::::::::::-:.:::::;::::-:.::-:-:::::::::::::;:::::;:'6 ~~l\ The new WRUC is celebrating our retu~n t.o the ~l~j ~~j~ airwaves at 89.7 on the F.M. Dial. l~l~ ~ ~ ·:·: On Saturday, Oct. 8at7:00p.m. in Stage II Carnegie :::: ~;~; Hall~ there will be a gathering of WRUC personnel, ;:;; :::: alumni, and the administration. Refreshments and :::: ~;;1 entertainment Will be provided. The entire Union •• =~.~~ :·:· community is invitedtoattend. · .... :~~ Then, on Sunday, Oct. 9, at 1:00 p.m. Pres·ident ~~~~ :::: Morris will officially dedicate WRUC a 100 Watt -:·: .. -~ :::: Station. :::: ::;: Join us tor this historic Union College event! ::;: ~ . .... ........................... ., ·-~~ •.:,·.:;:,:,:,.;;;·.························~·········:,;,······~;-.··· .. ··'\:fa.··; .•.o.•.,•.,•.,• 8 o.•.,-';-':J';•.,r.:•.,• • .,:;.:-:~~ ... •*• •., • • ~*•\'••. • .•.,•.,•.\' .•.,•.,•., .,•., .,•.,•., ••• .,•.,•.•,. ;,•.•., .,•.,•.,., • GEPPETTO'S RESTAURANT 547 Nott Street Pizza • Str~mbolli • Sandwiches • Salads Lunches & Dinners RESERVATIONS & TAKEOUT Open11:30a.m. 382-9066 His mother was the <4tugh~er of home, and. . he . gradually a converted Jew of German return~d to. authorship for a ancestry; Probably. as a result livelihood. The most successful of his father's finances, the . {;f hia. dramas was ''Brutlli?, of family was on the move-:- by the the FaH . of Tarquia.'' a time John was 14, he. had spent historicaltragedy.-He bec.arnea considerable time here, in New ·competent translator and York, and in Boston. . adapter of European plays and As a child:, Payne eXpressed · at one time. he . serve<:{ as an early. desire to become . an _ manager. of the Sadler's Wells actor. His family frowned on · theatre in England. He hoped, to this and he was sent to work in a produce his own melodramas in New York mercantile business. this London theater, but the While in New York, at the age of venture collapsed and. he was 14, he founded the city's first imprisoned for debt. He fr.~d theatrical magazine, the himself by selling a play and \Thespian Mirror'' which ran inunediately fled to Paris .. for 14 issues from December \Home Sweet Hotne\ was 1805 to May ltl06. Payne's 'in· written atthis time while Payne terest in the theater was intense was broke and alone in Paris. and he had dreams of becoming The first draft of his famous an .Arr,erican prodigy in the · composition was, however, theatrical busiriess. written while he was a student However, his journalistic at Union. On March 3, 1851, talents came to the attention of Payne wrote a letter to a Mr~ William Coleman, ~ditor· of the . Clarke, in which he 8aid: New.York \Evening Post,\ who \Surely there is something· wrote to the. boy's father str~nge in the fact thafit should suggesting that a patron might have been my- lot to cause il() be found to help educate Jolm: . many people 'in .. the w.orld tl>' And ·SO,. under the patronage of · boast of the delights of bome, Mr. John Seaman, .Payne came when I have never·haq a home to Union in 1806to·study l.mder of rny·own and never expect ·t() Eliphalet ~ott, then presi- . have «;me.\ · dent of the college. There ·payne theq. · re~urned .·tl) · is · no tecord of his foirnal. · America where he was greeted · studies . while. at. cc:.Uege. but with receptions and benefits. H~ much is known of his literary started to work out plans .for occupations. He launched ms another magazine · and wbile second magazine in 1807 tinder seeking· material and sub· the title \The Pastime\ whi~h · scribers in Georgia , and ra~ for 36 issues and is cQn· Alabama, be.came interested in sidered the forerunner of the the di-fficulty betw~en · the · present campus paper', the United St!ftes andthe Cherokee ''C.oncordiensis!' He a.lso and Creek· Indians, sym· engaged In undergraduate -pathiz,ing with the Indians. His thatrical activities. · activities resulted· in his arrest In 1807 Payne's mOther died,' . ~Y . F~deral troops, but ·he his father. became bankrupt and · straigh~ned out his difficultit!s, his incr~sing :debts to his was released and went to sponsor, Mr .. Seaman, resulted·. .Washifi~Qn, · where he ~pent in Payne's receiving consent to collijiderable time writing. leavtl college ·and pursue: a . He was appointed American professional dramatic . career.: colsQl to. Tunis, Africa, in 1842,- After leaving Union, Pa:Yne . recalled irt 1845 and tE)appointed became a theatncal ·sensation in 1851. He died there the next in New York, Boston; Baltimore year and was buried in Africa. and Philadelphia. His ambition, Twenty years later ~ friend had however, was to conquer . the his. body brought to Anierica theater of the Old World, and. in where it was later buried in Oak 1813., aided by friends, he sailed Hill Cemetery, in Washington, . to England. as a choir of 1,000 voices sang In Europe, Payne was a \Home Sweet Hoine.\ . · . . succes~, but not as much as at Seore A+·. in Good Taste Yot.(lllead the class In good taste when you bring your , parE3nts or dot.e to the Cranberry Bog for. lunch, 'dinner or Sunday Brunch. You can be'sure they'll apprecidte our way with fresh seafood, veal, steak, prime rib and the unique selections from the light menu. Delicious food, affordable prices and <;;otnfortable surroundings make your dining experience· complete whether you . choose the Dining Room orthe~sunrw ambience ofthe · Greenhouse. Call now for reservations. Phone 459-511 o 459·5110 56 Wolf .Road, Colonie - - - - I·

PageD HOMECOMING, October /983 Home Sweet Homecoming-Oct 1. 8 & 9 J H. Payne Honored By JULIE ABELMAN J.ohn Howard Payne, a member of the Union College class of 1810, and composer of \Home Sweet Home,\ is honored this weekend at Homecoming. This year marks the 160th aMiversary of the writing of this famous song. Although Payne was honored during and after his lifetime for his authorship of \Home Sweet Home,\ the song has deprived him of fuller recognition as an actor, playwright and editor. He was America's first actor to acllieve an international reputation, its first playwright to be presented abroad, an editor of talent, a diplomat who first raised the Stars and Stripes on Tunisian soil and a champion who risked his reputation on behalf of the American Indian. Pa:yne was the sixth of twelve children born to William and Sarah Isaacs Payne. His father was a physician and school teacher, a descendant of an Payne Gate, the main entrance ·at Union, was dedicated at com- early settler of Massachusetts. mencementexerciseson June 13,1911 Home, Sweet Home id pleasures and paLaces, though we may roam, Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home. A charm from the skies seems to hallow us there, Which, seek thro' the world, is ne'er met with elsewhere; Home! Home! Sweet, sweet home; There's no place like home, There's no place like home. An exile from home, splendor dazzles in vain; Oh give me my lowly thatch' d cottage again; The birds singing gaily, that come at my call; Give me them with that peace of mind, dearer than all. Home! Home! Sweet, sweet home; There's no place like home, There's no place like home. Hate sweet 'tis to szt 'neath a fond father's smile; And the cares of a mother' to soothe and beguile; Let others delight 'mid new pleasures to roam, Bur gite 1 me, oh gite 1 me, the pleasures of home. Home! Home! Sweet, sweet home. But gitJe me, oh give me, The pleasures of home. To thee I'll return, overburden'd with care, The heart'$ dearest solace will smile on me there; No more [rom that cottage again will I roam, Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home. Home! Home! Sweet, sweet, home; There's no place like home, There's no place like home. john Howard Payne SLIDE LECTURE With Stephen Fentak, '73 on his painting and drawing. Friday at 11 a.m. in Arts Bldg., Room 104 Students and Faculty are invited Union, Class of 18ro .. ~::.:;:;:::::;:::;:;:::::::::::::::::::;:::::~:;.:::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::z::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ I The new WRUC is celebrating our return to the ~~~~ ~~~~ airwaves at 89.7 on the F.M. Dial. ~~~~ :~:~ On Saturday/ Oct. 8 at 7:00p.m. in Stage II Carnegie ~~~~ . ~.:·;_:~.:~.· .. :! ~~~~~ :i~e~~dw~~eb~dam~~:~t~~~~n ~f ~~~s~~:~~~n~~~ _::~.:~-~.:~~.::.· entertainment will be provided. The entire Union community is invited to attend. :;:; Then, on Sunday, Oct. 9, at 1:00 p.m. President ;:;: : ~~:;·~ .. !:: ~~~~~~.will officially dedicate WRUC a 100 Watt :~:~:1:t Join us for this historic Union College event! :::::::::::::::~:::::;::,:::::~::::~:::::~:~:.:::~:.::::.::::::::::::.::.::::.:~::::::.::.::.:::~::::::::;::::::::::::::.::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::-:::~ GEPPETTO'S RESTAURANT 547 Nott Street Pi:zza • Str~mbolli • Sandwiches • Salads Lunches & Dinners RESERVATIONS & TAKEOUT Open 11 :30 a.m. 382-9066 His mother was the daughter of a converted Jew of German ancestry. Probably as a result of his father's finances, the family vvas on the move-by the time Jolm was 14, he llad spent considerable time here, in New York, and in Boston. As a child, Payne expressed an early desire to become an actor. His family frowned on this and he was sent to work in a New Yo:rk mercantile business. While in New York, at the age of 14, he founded the city's first theatrical magazine, the \Thespian Mirror\ which ran for 14 il!sues from December 1805 to May 1801). Payne's in- terest in the theater was intense and he had dreams of becoming an American prodigy in the theatrical business. However, his journalistic talents came to the attention of William Coleman, editor of the New York \Evening Post,\ who wrote to the boy's father suggesting that a patron might be found to help educate John. And so, under the patronage of Mr. John Seaman, Payne came to Union in 1806 to study under Eliphalet Nott, then presi- dent of tbe college. There is no record of his formal studies wh.ile at college but much is known of his literary occupations. He launched his second magazine in 1807 tinder the title \The Pastime\ which ran for :36 issues and is con- sidered the forerunner of the present campus paper, the \Concordiensis.\ He also engaged in undergraduate thatrical activities. In 1807 Payne's mother died, his father became bankrupt and his increasing debts to his sponsor, Mr. Seaman, resulted in Payne• s receiving consent to leave college and pursue a professional dramatic career. After leaving Union, Payne became a theatrical sensation inN ew Y orlc, Boston, Baltimore and Philadelphia. His ambition, however, was to conquer . the theater of the Old World, and in 1813, aided by' friends, he sailed to England. In Europe, Payne was a success, but not as much as at Score A+ home, and . he gradually returned to authorship for a livelihood. The most successful of his dramas was \Brutus of the Fall af Tarquin,\ a historical tragedy. He became a competent translator and adapter of European plays and at one time he served as manager of the Sadler's Wells theatre in England. He hoped to produce his own melodramas in this London theater, but the venture collapsed and he was imprisoned for debt. He freed himself by selling a play and irrunediately fled to Paris. \Home Sweet Home\ was written at this time while Payne was broke and alone in Paris. The first draft of his famous composition was, however, written while he was a student at Union. On March 3, 1851, Payne wrote a letter to a Mr. Clarke, in which he said: \Surely there is something strange in the fact that it should have been mY lot to cause so many people in the world to boast of the delights of home, wh{m I have never had a home of my own and never expect to have one.\ · Payne then returned to America where he was greeted with receptions and benefits. He started to work out plans for another magazine and while seeking material and sub- scribers in Georgia and Alabama, became interested in the difficulty between the United States and the Cherokee and Creek Indians, sym- pathizing with the Indians. His activities resulted in his arrest by Federal troops, but he straightened out his difficulties, was released and went to Washington, where he spent considerable time writing. He was appointed American colsul to Tunis, Africa, in 1842, recalled in 1845 and reappointed in 1851. He died there the next year and was buried in Africa. Twenty years later a friend had his body brought to America where it was later buried in Oak Hill Cemetery, in Washington, as a choir of 1,000 voices sang \Home Sweet Home.\ in Good Taste You'll lead the class in good taste when you bring your, parents or date to the Cranberry Bog for lunch. dinner or Sunday Brunch. You can be sure they'll appreciate our way with fresh seafood. veaL steak. prime rib and the unique selections from the light menu. Delicious food, affordable prices and comfortable surroundings make your dining experience complete whether you choose the Dining Room or the sunny ambience of the Greenhouse . Call now for reservations. Phone 459-5110 459-5110 56 Wolf Road, Colonie . ; ; ; lT I ... : I L - -

HOMECOMING, October 1983 PogeC 0 ' • 0 0 0 0 ' 0 0 0 0 0 A • omecotiling Events ridayi October 7 · · Free Homecoming Memento to all wh9 register at the· Alumni Office in Lamont House. . Friday and Saturday: 9:00 a .• m. to 6;00 p.m., Lamont House porch. Alumni Office Telephone: (518) 370.-6168. . 'The Student Activities Box Office in Carnegie Hall will be open from- Noon to Midnight on Friday and Saturday. 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Open Classes. Alumni, parents and friends are invited to join Union's students. Class schedules are avaHable fn Lamont Home. 6:30p.m. Annual Fund Class Agents Dinner. Para- mount Lounge. Cocktails ._ ·6:30p.m,- Dinner 7:30p.m. 8:00 p.m. Men's Soccer vs. Alumni. Astroturf Field. 8:00 p.m. An· Evening of Comedy with Billy Crystal. Memorial Chapel. Tickets may be purchased at the Student Activities Box Office, Carnegie Hall. Sponsored by the Student Speakers Forum. 7:00 p.m. I 9:00 p.m. I 11:00 p.m. Home of ]olln Howard Payne Movie,, Tootsie:' 'R.oom 016, Social Sciences Building. Tickets are $1:00 and may be purchas-ed at the Student Activities Box Office, Carnegie Hall. Sponsored· by the Student Film Committee. 8:30 p.m. Coffeehouse - Cabaret Room. 1st floor, Carnegie Hall. Co[r-tplirnent:ary coffee and doughnuts. Donation $1.00. Sponsored by . St:uderit Coffeehouse. · ·. aturday, October 8 · · 8:00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m. Class Agents Meeting. Hale House Dining Room. 9:00a.m. - 10:00 a.m. National Estate Affairs Committee Meetil)g. Hale House Dining Room. 9:00a.m. - 10:00 a.m. ReUnion '84 Class Committee Meeting. Lower Lounge, Hale House. 9:00a.m. - 10:00 a.m. Parents Committee Meeting. Milano Lounge, Hale House. 9:30a.m. Breakfast with the Dutchmen Football Team. West College Dining Room. Join head football coach AI Bagnoli and the 1983 squad_ ''Dutch Treat.'' W:OOa.m./U:OOa.m. B.ells Concert by Peter K. Smith '70. Memorial Chapel. 10:00 a.m . ..... I 1:00 a.m. Campaign for Union - Convocation of Achievement. Old Chapel. 10:00 a.m. Women's Soccer vs. Hamilton. Garis Field. 10:00a.m.- 6:00p.m. WGY's \Great Northeast Ambassador.\ Stop by WGY's 30-foot Radio Station on Wheels broadcasting Homecoming festivitie$ live from the campus. 11:00 a.m. Academic Presentations/Receptions. Everyone is invited to join the following faculties to learn \what's new\ in your major and other areas of interest .. L Walter C. Saker Faculty of the H1;1manities. Arts, Classics, English, Modern Languages, Philosophy .. Faculty Lounge (2nd floor), :flumaniti~s Building. II. Faculty of the Social Sciences. Economics, History, Institute of Ad- ministration and Management, Political Science, Sociology. \The Crisis in American Educa.tion: Perspectives on the National Commission Report on Excellence in Educa,tion.\ Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hail. Ill. Faculty of the Sciences. Biological Sciences, Room S 301 (Genetics Lab), Science ahd Engineering Center. Cltemistry, N 116, Science and Engineering Center. Mathematics, Room 200,'Bailey Hall. Physics, Room N 114, Science and ~ngineering Center. Psychology, Room 213, Psych9logy Building. IV. Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science. Civil Engineering, Room 109, Butterfield Hall. Electrical)~ngineering, Room 100, Steinmetz Hall. Computer Science, Room 101, Steinmetz Hall. Mechanical Engineering, Room N 205 (Lab), Science·and Engineering Center. . Saturday, con 't. 11:00 a.m. Volleyball vs. Pace University. Memonal. Fieldhouse. 11:00 a.m. Women's Tennis vs, Atmy. 11:00. a.tn. Metro New York Alumni Club's PurrraH <>f ]CJhn HouaTJ Payn\ ·.3rd An;nllalTailgate Picnic. Lawt'l adjacent,to Wells House(in back of Chi Psi). Bring your own picnic lunch. 11:15 a.m./11:45 a.m. '\A Uni()n of . People:' Room OI6, Social Scimc~s Building. 'Union's. awarJ-w1nm~gfilm portraying academic; and social life on campus. 11:30 a.m. - 3:30 p.m. Lunch. Look for the Refreshment Tent on Alexander Field. Beverages, hot dogs and hamburgers. Sponsored:by Unic>n's Lacrosse Team. 11:15 p.m. •Fourth Anmlal Homecoming Parade. 1:00 p;m, - 3:00 p.m. Ice Skating. Achilles Rink. Rentals available at t·he Rink. 1:30 p.m. Football vs. Colby. Astroturf Field. Half Time- President Jolu S. Morris will present th.e Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy and Hoat Awards. 4:00p.m •. - 5:00p.m. President:'s Reception. Everyone is invited to join President and Mrs. Morris in beaut:iful]ackson 's Garden (or Alumni Gym if the weather is inclement). 5:00p.m.- 6:00p.m. Performing Arts~ Memorial ChapeL Sponsored by Student Dance Club and Arts Club. 5:00p.m. Field Hockey vs'. Alu.mnae. Astroturf Field. Late Afternoon aJUl Everung Fraternity and Sorority lfomecoming Parties. 5:00 p.-m ... / 6:30 p.m. / 8:0iJ p.m. Home Sweet\ Home,Cooking.'• Dutch Hollow Pub. Lirrlited menu with varieties ranging from steaks and prime rib to seafood. $8.00 per person. Limited seating; early reservations are required in advance. Please call the Alumni Office at ( 518) 370-6168. 7:00p.m./ 9:00p.m. I 11:00 p.rn. Movie '!Tootsie.'' Room 016, Social Sciences Building. Tickets are $1.00 and may be purchased at the Student Activities Box Office, Carnegie Hall. 7:00p.m. Stage n WRUC Party 8:30p.m. Men's and Women\s Glee Clubs: Annual Homecoming Concert. Memorial Chapel. Featuring \Home Sweet Home\ by John Howard Payne, Union Class of 1810. 9:00 p.m./ 11:00 p.m. Cabaret. Carnegie HalL Reserved seats - tickets are $-1.50 and may be purchased at the Student Activities Box Office . Sponsored by Student Cabaret. 9:45p.m. Gala Fireworks Display. Library Field. unday, October 9 9:00 a.m. - 12:00 noon Homegoing Brunch. Dutch Hollow Pub. Adults $4.50, Under 12 $2.50. 11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. Hillel Homecoming Brunch. Kosher Kitchen, West College. $1.00 members, $2.00 non- members. Sponsored liy ].S.O. Hillel. 11:00 a.m. Ecumenical Church. Service. Memorial Chapel. Speaker - Professor Clifford W. Brown, Jr. - 11:00 a.rtJ.. -1:15 p.m: LakeGe~:>rgeCruise. Join us on the Mohican for a tour of Lake George and Par~dise J3.ay. Departure from Steel Pier, Lake George Village, at 11:00 a.m. &harp! Limited capacity; early reservations are suggested by calling the Alumni Office at (518) 370-6168. Adults $6.00, ages 3-11 $3.75, Under 3 Free. Tickets may be paid for and picked up at Registration. 1:00 p.m. \VRUC Dedication 7:00p.m. I 9:00p.m. I 11:00 p.m. Movie \Tootsie.\ Room 016, Social Sciences Building. Tickets are $1.00 and may be purchased at the Student Activities Box Office, Carnegie HaU. Admissions Intuviews. The Admissions Office will be open all day Friday and Saturday from 9:00a.m. to Noon specifically for interviews with · alumni sons and daughters. Please contact the Admissions Office for an appointment at least two weeks in advance. Campus Bookstore. NottMemorial, Lower Level. Friday: 8:45a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Saturday: 10:00 a.m. t:o 4:00p.m. DutchFlollow Pub. Friday,October 7- Lunch: 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Snacks: 1:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Dinner: 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Saturday October 8 -Lunch: ll:OOa.m. to 2:30p.m. Home Sweet'' Home- Cooking:' 5:00, 6:30, 8:00p.m. (See event schedule.) Sunday, October 9- Homegoing Brunch: 9:00a.m. tG 12:00 noon. West College & Hale flouse Dining Rooms. Friday, October 7, and Saturday, October 8- Dinner: 5:00p.m. to 6:30p.m. Parking. Pl~ase use lot on cornerofSeward Place and Nott Street and the lot behind the Fieldhouse: Roadways on campus are classified as Fire Lanes and must be kept clear. Accommodations & Chil.il Care. If you desire a list ohrea motels 41' a list of students whom yQu may contact for child care during the weekend, ple~~ntact the Alwnni Office in advance.

,, I . ! r '·\\' /: ' l \l I ..... ,I ~ \ HOMECOMING, October 1983 PageC omecoming Events riday, October 7 Saturday, con 't. Free Homecoming Memento to all who register at the Alumni Office in Lamont House~ 11:00 a.m. Velleyball vs. Pace University. Memonal F1eldhouse. 11:00 a.m. Women's Tennis vs. Army. 1 1:00. a.m. Metro New York Alumni Club's P .. maa nf /nhn HnuarJ f'a\'11, 3rd Annual 'Tailgate Picnic. Lawn adjacent tn Wells House (in hack of Ch1 Ps1 ). Brmg your uwn rlCntC lunch. Friday and Saturday: Lamont House porch. (518) 370-6168. 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., Al'umni Office Telephone: The Student Activities Box Office in Carnegie Hail will be open from Noon to Midnight on Friday and Saturday. 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Open Classes. Alumnt, f~arents and fnenJs are InVIted tll JLlln l'n Hm 's students. Class schedules art' <Jvadahle In Lamont Hou'ie. 6:30p.m. Annual Fund Class Agents Dinner. Para- mount Lounge. Cocktails 6:30p.m.- Dmner 7:10 r.m. 8:00 p.m. Men's Soccer vs. Alumni. Astroturf Fie!J. 8:00 p.m. An Evening o.f Comedy with Billy Crystal. Menwnal Charel. T1ckets may h..: purchased at the Student Activities Box Ufftce, Carnegie Hall. Sponsored DV the Student Speakers Forum. 7:00 p.m. / 9:0() p.m. 11:00 p.m. Movie\ Tootsie.\ Rllom 016, So...:Ial Suences Budding. Tickets are $1.0() and may be rurchased at the Student A...:t1vities Box Off1ce, Carnegie Hall. Sponsored by the Student Film Committl'e. 8:30 p.m. Coffeehouse - Cabaret Room. lst floor, Carnegie Hall. Complimentary coffee and doughnuts. Donation $1.00. SponsoreJ hv Student Coffeehouse. aturday, October 8 8:00a.m. - 10:00 a.m. Class Agents Meeting. Hale House Drning Room. 9:00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m. NatioRal Estate Affairs Committee Meeting. Hale House Dmmg Room. 9:00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m. ReUnion 'H4 Class Committee Meeting. Lower Lounge, Hale House. 9:00a.m. - 10:00 a.m. Parents Committee Meeting. Milano Lounge, Hale Houst•. 9:30a.m. Breakfast with the Dutchmen Football Team. West College Dming Room. Jom ht:ad foothall coach AI Bagnoli and the 19tl3 Sl.juaJ \Dutch Treat.\ I 0:00a.m./ 11:00 a.m. Bells Concert by Peter K. Smith '70. Memonal Chapel. 10:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. Campaign for Union - Convocation of Achievement. Old Chapel. 10:00 a.m. Women's Soccer vs. Hamilton. Garis FieiJ. I O:OOa.m.- 6:00p.m. WGY's \Great Northeast Ambassador.\ Stop hv WGY's 30-foot Radio Station on Wheels hroadcasting Homecoming ft-stivities liw from the campus. 11:00 a.m. Academic Presentations/Receptions. Everyone 1s invited to JOin the followin~ faculties to learn \what's new\ in your major anJ other areas of interest. I. Walter C. Baker Faculty of the Humanities. Arts, Classics, English, Modern Languages, Philosophy. Faculty Lounge (2nd floor), Humaniti~s Building, II. Faculty of the Social Sciences. Econornks, History, Institute of Ad- ministration and Management, Political Science, Sociology. \The Crisis in American Education: Perspectives on the National CDmmission Report on Excdlence in Education.\ Strauss Louage, Carnegie Hall. Ill. Faculty of the Sciences. Biological Sciences, RoomS 301 (Genetics Lab), Science and Engineering Center. Chemistry, N 116, Science and Engineering Center. Mathematics, Room 200, Bailey Hall. Physics, Room N 114, Science and Engineering Center. Psychology, Room 213, Psychology Building. IV. Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science. Civil Engineering, Room 109, Butterfield Hall. Electrical Engineering, Room 100, Steinmetz Hall. Computer Science, Room 101, Steinmetz 1-:lall. Mechanical Engineering, Room N 205 (Lab), Science and Engineering Center. 11:15 a.m.' 11:45 a.m. \A Union of People.\ Room 016, SDc1al Science~ RudJmg. ·L:nwn\ awarJ-wmmng fdm rurtraymg acaJenut.· anJ -;ouaiiife on camrus. 11: 30 a.m. - 3:30 p.m. Lunch. Look for the Rdrl'shment Tt·nt un Alexander FieiJ. Beverages, hut Jogs and hamhurgen. S[\'onsoreJ hy Cnron 's Lacrosse Team. 12:15 p.m. Fomth Annual Homecoming Parade. 1:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Ice Skating. Achilles Rrnk. Rentals avadahle at the Rmk. 1:30 p.m. Football vs. Colby. Astroturf Field. Half Time - President jDhn S. Morns wdl present the Sterhen P. Brown Memorial Tmphy anJ Float Awards. 4:00p.m. - 5:00p.m. President's Reception. EveryDne 1s Invited to JOin Prestdent anJ Mrs. Morns m heaunful Jackson\ CJarJen (or Alumni Gym I! the weather IS Inclement). 5:00 p.m. -6:00p.m. Performing Arts. Memonal Char'd. SronsorL·J hy Stud~nt Dance Cluh anJ Arts Cluh. 5:00 p.m. Field Hockey vs. Alumnae. Astroturf FidJ. Late Afternoon and Evenzng Fraternity and Sorority Homecoming Parties. 5:00p.m.'! 6:30 p.m. 8:00p.m. Home Sweet\ Home~Cooking.\ Dutch Holbw Pu8. LnntteJ menu with varieties rangmg from steaks and pnme nh to seafonJ. $H.OO per person. Limited seating; earlv reservat!LlnS arl· reLJUlreJ rn advance. Please call the Alumnr Office at ( 5ltl) 370-b!bK. 7:00p.m. / 9:00p.m. / 11:00 p.m. Movie\ Tootsie.\ Roum 01b. Snctal Sctences Burldmg. Tickets are $1.00 and mav he purchased at the Student ActiVIties Box Oifio:, Carnegie Hall. 7:00p.m. Stage II WRUC Party 8:30 p.m. Men's and Women's Glee Clubs: Annual Homecoming Concert. Memonal Chapel. Ft•aturmg \Huml· Sweet Home\ bv John Howard Payne, Unwn Class of 1810. 9:00p.m./ I 1:00 p.m. Cabaret. Carnegie Hall. Reserved seats- trckers are $1.50 and may he rurchaseJ at the Student Activitit's Box Off1L·e. Sronsored hy StuJent Caharet. 9:45 p.m. Gala Fireworks Display. Lthrary Fidd. unday, October 9 9:00 a.m. - 12:00 noon Homegoing Brunch. Dutch Hollow Puh. Adults $4.50, Under 12 $2.50 . 11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. Hillel Homecoming Brunch. Kosher Kitchen, West College. $1.00 memhers. $2.Ll( 1 non- memhers. Sponsored by J .S.O. Hillel. 11:00 a.m. Ecumenical Church Service. Memonal Chapel. Speaker- Professor Clifford W. Brown, Jr. 1 I :00 a.m.- 1:15 p.m: Lake George Cruise. ]om us on tht• Mohican t'or a tour of Lake George and Paradise Bay. Departure from Steel Pier, Lake George VIllage, at II :00 a.m. ~harp! Limited capacity; early reservatitms art• suggested hy callmg the Alumni Office at ( 518) 3 70-6168. AJults$6.00. ages 3-11 $3.75, Under 3 Free. Tickets mav be paid for and piCked ur at Registra tlon. 1:00 p.m. WRUC Dedication 7:0() p.m. I 9:00p.m. , · 11:00 p.m. Movie \Tootsie.\ RLltlm 016. Soc1al Snences Butlding. Tickets are $1.00 anJ may De purchased at the Student Activities Box Office, Carnegie Hall. Admissions Interviews. The AJrmssmns Ot'ftce wrll h· npm all Jay Friday and Saturday from 9:00a.m. tll Noon specrfically ft)r Interviews with alumm sons and daughters. Please conta...:t the Admissrons Office fL,r an aprointment at least rn:o weeks in advanct'. Campus Bookstore. Nott MemLmal, Lnwer Lc:vel. Fridav: H:45 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. :::iaturJay: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Dutch Hollow Pub. Friday, Octoher 7- Lunch: 11:30 a.m. tLl 1: k' p.m. Snacks: 1:30 p.m. to 4: 3() p.m. Dinner: 'i:OO p.m., ttl 7:.~L~ p.m . Saturday, October 8 -Lunch: II :00 a.m. to 2:30p.m. HL)me :::iweet Home- Cooking\ 5:00, 6:30, 8:00p.m. (See en·nt scheJuk.) Sundav, Ocrd-•t•r q- Homegoing Bru!'lch: 9:00a.m. to 12:00 noon. West College & Hale House Dining Rooms. FnJav. October 7, and Saturday, October 8- Dinner: 5:00 p.m. tL\ 6: )Ll p.m. Parking. Please usl' lot on corner of Seward Place anJ Nott Street and the lot behind the Fieldhouse. RoaJways on campus an· classified as Fire Lanes and must he kept clear. Accommodations & Child Care. If you desire a list of area motels or a list of students whom you may contact for child care during the weekend, please c;ontact the Alwnni Office in advance.

PageD Come to a Union College tradition! On Saturday, October 8th at 8:30 p.m. the Union College Men's and Women's Glee Clubs will present the annual Homecoming Concert in Memorial . Chapel. The 160th anniversary performance of John Howard Payne's \Home Sweet Home\ will highlight the program. In addition, a wide assortment of musical selections win be performed. Feafured compos~rs range in style and variety of music from Handel. to Rogers and Hammerstein. DUTCH PIPERS The recently -revived Union College Dutch Pipers will make its first appearance of the year on Saturday, October 8th at 11:36 a.m. Following an on-the-air performance of ''Ode to Union'' from the WG Y-AM Mobile Radio Station, the Pipers will present a short concert on the steps of Lamont House. Their repertoire consists of a variety of music arranged for small vocal ensE!mbles, and includes Barbershop standards, popular Fifties tunes, and contemporary pieces. ' Stop by Lamont House before the Parade and. hear the-Pipers sing!. HOMECOMING, October 1-9~3 The .Union College. Student Drive for Proctor's Raffle, designed to help benefit th-e restoration of Proctor's will run until the haffti me <Jf the Homecoming FootbaJI game on Saturday, Octobers. Raffletickets may be purchased for 50 cents apiece or a book of 5 for $2.0.0 at a table near the ticket booth at the football game, Tickets may also be· p1:1 r- chased from Student Forum m.embers during the remainder of the week and at Lamont House during Alumni registration. Prizes inc tude: · 1. Dinner for 4 at the VanDyck and 4 tick~ts to a show at Proctot\ 1 s .2. Dinner for 2 at the Oxbow IQn and 2· tickets to a show at Proct.or's 3.· Dinner for 2 at ·sunday's Dinner for .. 2 at the Oxbow Inn . · · · . A•so there are 3 other palrs of tickets for shows at Proctor's and assorted smaller prizes. - THE UNION COLLEGE SPEAKE·RS FORUM presents UAn Evening of qomedy;' Crystal Sparkles The Union Student Speakers Jersey, EJtit 15; a:JJd ob· . Forum will present ''An noxiously-lovable Willie, the Evening. of Comedy with Billy autograph hound. with BILLY CRYSTAL UNION COLLEGE MEMORIAL CHAPEL .. Crystal\ at Union Friday, Oct. Crystal develops hJs. own 7, kicking off Homecoming material for his cornetdy peT· Weekend activities. The per- formances, has wriiten a formance begins at 8 p.m. in. screenplay titled ''G01odnigbt Memorial Chapel. . Moon,\ and co-authored a 00·. Tickets may be purchased at minute comedy special with the Student Activities Box Rob Reiner and Martin Mllll Office in Carnegie Hall, open titled ' 1 The T.V. Sllo'W'I',\ Eie noon to midnight. Prices are $7 recently wrote and starrEd in an for the general public, and $4 hour-long special, ' 1 0n with Union· College I.D. Location,\ for Home Ro x . Crystal, ·who starred in an · Office- Friday, TICKETS: October 7th, 1983 8:00p.m. NBC comedy hour earlier tQis Raised in show bwin...ess-bis year, is perhaps best known for family owned and-operated the his portrayal of Jodie In the TV · famous Commodore J az:i!!: lll.IJel- series \Soap.\ He has appeared Crystal's career started when as a dramatic actor in ·''Enola he starred as the \third flow.er~• . Gay, The Atomic· Bomb,n and in the Spr;:ing Pageant at tij.e the critically. · acclaimed TV . East Elementary · Scll.bol in Movie, \Breaking Up Is Hard to Long Beach,\ Long Island. Do.\ · Though he appears now to be~ $4.00 for Union College Students with lD Carnegie Hall Box Office - Union College $7.00 for the Public He brings with him a family young man destined br star· of characters.--83-year-o'Id dam, he swearsto thisd;ay l)e'c Jull.us; Danny . Terrio, a · give· it all up in a minute to play professional street punk whose shortstop for the New York only !mown address is New Yankees. · . . UNION COLLEGE 'DANCE CLUI Presents: UNION STUDENTS! .. A Homecomi111 DANCE FESTIVAL Enioy Pizza and Games at .. CHUCK E. CHEESE 1 S! Featuring Dancers· frCJm· UN-ION. SKIDMORE and SUNY ALB~NY Octo·ber~. 5:.0.8p.m. MIMCIRiti,;CIA~EL· F . •v. ,. ·E· t· . ..R:J:!J • ' ! . - - E f a F i'C I v v b lc a ·I :61 8: Ri Cc: . • -

CXI·U,. No.:S . Pres. John Morris and WRUC Program Director Jeff Dinces sign onWRUC at lOOwatts. • York October 13, 1983 er63Years RUC •tslOO By OOUG LANOON Edltotdli:.Cbief &r \At this time radio station , WRUC, Schenectady, begin'S broadcast activities for the day. WRUC Qperates with maximum allowable power at 89.7 megabertz, FM channel 209A, by authority of the Federal Communications Commission. \WRUC is owned and operated · by Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., witb studios, offices and tran- smitting facilities located in Carnegie Hall on the college grounds . \We hope you enjoy tod.ay's programming.'' A milestone was achieved by WRUC last Sunday afternoon at 1 p.m., as President John S. Mol'ris read these words and signed on the station at 100 watts. WRUC broadcast at ien watts in the past, and the power increase transition has been about a four-year process. much to give WRUC support.\ Career Assistants Chosen \I'm glad it's finally hap- pened,'' col_llmented WRUC program director Jeff Dinces. \We've waited a long time for it.\ The 100 watt broadcastmg capability now enables WRUC to be heard up to ten or twelve miles east toward Albany, but less in other directions because .of signals from other stations and mountainous terrain. Eric Horwick, assistant director of sports at WRUC expects the sports ·program to be expanded, using the past as a base. The new format, he an- ticipates, will include coverage of more Union games. The Union-Colby homecoming game last Saturday was the first to be covered by WRUCatthe higher wattage. According to Horwick, WRUC sports ha5 received a \very generous\ grantfrom the Schenectady Gazette, which will enable the station to upgrade its sports program. Also, Wendy's restaurants have offered to provide dinner for two to all sports guests. Other sports sponsors include the Holiday Inn and DaTomasso Pizzeria, Horwick said. By JAN BARAN There are few sources available now so. it Should be a challenge Last May, the selection to provide thi& infoJ!Illation to process began for one of the the st1:1.dents.\ When completed, most beneficial student jobs on all Union students can use these campus, career ·assistants. projects in their career sear- Those students selected .needed cbes. A third part of a career to milet. several CPitetia· before assistant's job involves an out- becoming· career assistants. reach to Union students. The First, the Career Development . Car~er Development Center Center desired students who plans for career asSiStants to were already visible on campu.S. hold formal workshops in the and participating in campus dorm and on campus to aid~ activities .. ln addition, the students ~n selecting their students needed to .possess good careers.- Workshops already communication skills so that planned include self. they could directly help the assessment and surmner job students at Union. Third, ·Workshops. Pam. Hartman, a J)ositive letters· of reconi~ career development specialist mendation from Union faculty at Union· also J'hopes that an members were required. informal network will develop Finally, the potential career which will give students more assistants were pbligated. to career alternatives.\ An ad· participitte in a group dynaiili.cs - ditional job of the career exercise as part of the interview-._ . assistants will be to process the to demonstrate that they. had new career information the desired leadership skills in a received every day at the group situation. center. By making- this in· After the - interviewing formation available to the process, five students were academic departments, selected to be careev assimants students will have alternative for this academic year. · The sources of information group includes seniors Sarah available. Couch and Diane RC>thbaum, · The aim of this program, juniors Dianne Pavacic and . according to Hartman, is to Tom Will, and sophomore Mike ''interest and aid students, Palmer. These students have particularly freshmen and been hired by Union fot ap- sophomores in ~he career proximately six hours a week. process.\ By increasing the To aid in their understanding of. amount of resources and the the career process, the five number of workshops, the career assistants attended a Career Development Center sununer workshop for .two days hopes to help all students in to train them in the career selectmg a career, summer job, development process. mternship, or graduate school. Recently, the career The center also desires that.the assistants have aided the center career assistants can inforiTI in preparing for the annual Union students of the available career festival held in Alumni resources and refer them to the Gym yesterday. Future center. Because the career projects include the compilation assistants need to understand of a swnmer job questionnaire the career .process themselves and aiding in using the Career in order to teach it, they can aid Center Library. The potential job seekers. As Diane questionnaire's~ results will be Rothbawn, one of the career used to aid all Union students in assistants, stated, \the students finding jobs for the sununer. In - can empathize with us because addit4m, each career assistant we are students and are going iS beginning a project to proVide through the same process.'' more resources for the Career Development Center. As Mike . Palmer, a career assistant working on an entrepeneurial project, stated, 11 it will help people to get started in finding teSoUl'ces on entre~neurships. Because this is a · new program,. most of it is 1n the introductory stages at this point. The career assistants are · trying to correlate th~ car~r · resource material so that· they can help other students. The next few weeks will be spent preparjng for the workshops to be led by the career assistants and pnderstant;Ung further, the potential resources of bQth the library· :·'and. tire ;Careet' Development Center. · Hartnian is optimistic -about the possible success of this pilot program. She emphasi2ed that the career assistants them- selves were \enthusiastiC 71 and that \they had already reached several students\ and informed them of sources available. In order to strengthen this program, plans to visit other schools with similar programs have already been made. General manager Richard Biegen anticipates no major changes in the programming schedule, but believes ''we're better than before.'' Biegen j'Qat~ies the claim by stating tfiat new diE:~c jockeys_ at WR'QC are ''a lot more dexteroUs and a lot more aware\ than DJ~s of the past. He adds that this year's DJ's appear to be an enthusiastic group. \Now we can sit down to the business of running a radio station,\ Biegen said. ''We haven't had any politica·l \problems or financial problems, but we have our work cut out for OS.\ Biegen also wishes to thank everyone who helped the station make the transformation to 100 watts. \So many people did so • ·.~f-,, North/South's winning float at the Homecoming Parade on $aturday >- ~ en c ·e Ill ::i > \- 10.. Ill -l > .c .E 0 .s:::. c. Following the official sign-on by Dr. Morris, a wine and cheese reception was held in the WRUC studios to celebrate the event. Dr. and Mrs. Morris, dean , of students Joseph Mammola, director of public relations Peter Blankman, and numerous WRUC members attended. The Schenectady Gazette and TV 10 covered the sign-on, and Holly Stuart of TV 10 interviewed Biegen on camera. WRUC was the first radio station in the United States to offer. regularly scheduled programming, Biegen said. The station will celebrate its sixty- third anniversary of broad- casting tomorrow. H 0 M 1 E 9 c 8 0 3 M I N G SOPHOMORE ELECTIONS p. 4 -SOCCER WINS2 p. 12

Pagel ·cQNCORDIENSIS. October/3, 1983 The Return of Sarma c: !! ~ :;) ro Q. >- :0 \:: 0 '\' 0 £. ~ Visiting Professor of Mathematics, Vemori Sarma By LORI OUWENSTEIN Visiting . Professor of Mathematics Vemuri Lakshml Narayana Sarma is back at Union. Fi:fteen years ago, Professor Sarma spent a year teaching mathematics at Union. He has noticed various changes since then. The most obvious change in the last fifteen years is that Union has gone co-ed. Professor Sanna feels that this was a positive move. ·\It is more New Associate Dean ByM. E.SALISBURY Professor William J. Daniels of the political science depart- ment was recently appointed the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies at Professor Daniel Williams, new Associate Dean of Un· dergraduate s·tudies Union. Daniels, appointed last swnmer by the Office of the Vice President of Academic Affairs, is replacing Professor Alan Nelson who is on a one- year sabbatical. His new position requires that he sit on various committees and organize meetings between academic and administrative departments. ''I hope to create understanding between departments, to energize the entire resources of the faculty.\ Daniels will act as a sort of \hub of the wheel,\ responsible for coordinating the efforts 'Of the academic departments, assisting the faculty and facilitating their needs, and planning and coordinating curricula. He also assists students ·with problems in academic planning and declaring a major. As a com- mittee member with the dean of students, Daniels helps to \humanize\ the rules in special circumstances, such as in mitigating the granting of degrees to transfer students. He chairs the Subcouncil on Courses and Programs, and is a member of the CUE, the Committee on Union Education. Daniels is a member of the Committee of Standing of Students, and of the Academic Affairs Council, as well as the Sloan Committee on Technical literacy, a group formed to distribute a foundation grant for \integrating the study of ap- plied mathematics and techootogy and computer nteracy required within a liberal arts curriculu:in.\ In these positions Daniels is responsible for, among other tasks, rec.ruiting professors, expanding courses and con .. tributing to course develop- ment. He convenes the weekly meetings of the preceptorial professors and assists in planning the preceptorial program. . Serving in' an administrative capacity is not new to Daniels, a professor of political science at Union since 1966. His previous experience includes working as a New York State Judicial Fellow, and as an Alfred E. Smith Post Doctoral Fellow. He has also worked in the Office of Administration to Chief Justice Burger. In addition to his duties as the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies, Daniels teaches two courses in political science, and iS reseal'ching th~ legal and judicial policies of- U.S, Chief Justice Thurgood Marshall. · •oryer•college CampUses assistant resident life director. (CPS)-This fall's ex- periments in clamping down on student drinking-experiments performed almost simultaneously by a huge number of schools now-have inspired a series of tough new rules on student behavior, but an initial check with colleges across the country indicates students are willingly adapting to their dryer campuses. \We didn't have the 'beer suckers' that have always been around before,\ Mike Jewell, a member of the University of Kentucky's Phi Delta. Theta house, observes gratefully. His house and all the other Ken- tucky fraternities agreed to hold dry rushes for the first time ever this fall. Bar owners near the University of Oklahoma campus arranged to ac- commodate a crowd of 5,000 students at a rally to protest the state's new 21-year-old legal drinking age law, but only 150 students showed up. Dry rushes and parties elsewhere unfolded without controversy. ''I think {the fraternities) are finding it brings good results, and keeps the people away whO only come for the free beer anyway,\ ol>flerves Jonathan Brant, head of the National Interfraternity Conference. It also shows \that frater- nities are something besides beer busts,\ he adds. Not all student groups are happy about the way schools are going about controlling student drinking, however. \We're all for\ controlling drinking, says Bob Bingaman, head of the State Student Assocjation in Washington, D.C., which coordinates state student activities around the nation and also helped Kansas and Georgia students ward off drinking age hikes last spring. \But students are responsible enough to sensitiZe themselves without having legislatures making decisions for them,\ he \' argues. Both legislators and school administrators are making those decisions nevertheless, and at an increasing pace over the last year. Maryland, Oklahoma, Arizona · State, Alabama, Virginia, St. Bonaventure and many others have Simply banned drinking on at least parts of their campuses. Fraternities like those at Kentucky and North Dakota State voluntarily have begun dry rushes and special alcohol- free activities. At Loyola. College of Maryland, students must now don special wrist bands to get liquor at campus parties. Students caught violating the new policy--by giving a wristband to an under-aged drinker, for example-can be kicked out of student housing. When the University of Maryland's under-aged population \plummeted from only 25 percent of the (student body) to over 60 percent this year, we just decided to put an end to all drinking on campus, rather than try to deal with all the enforcement problems,\ reports Sandy Neverett, the \Since the majority of students can't legally drink anyway,\ adds Anona Adair of the University of Oklahoma, \there simply cannot be any alcohol on campus.\ The crackdown is extending off-campus, too. Town police have been spot checki.Jlg parties at Millersville State College in Pennsylvania this fall, hunting for under-aged drinkers and enforcing the city's new noise law. lliinois State students now must get permission from town officials 15-days before holding any outdoor parties• Then they have to have security guards at the parties. \We're seeing a reat tur- naround in the way alcohol is being viewed not only by ad- ministrators, but by· students thems.elves,\ . says Gerardo Gonzalez, president of \BA€- CHUS, a national group aimed at. controlling student drinking. \More and more schools are integrating new poliCies to limit drinking, and show that alcohol· doesn't have to be an inherent part of college life,\ he rel)orts. The control efforts began in earnest on . many campuses during the 1982-83 academic year, and have accelerated since as more states raise their legal drinking ages and more college towns are emboldened to try to control student noise. Roughly half the states now have drinking ages set at 21, compared to 20 states a year ago. Several other \21 states\ have alSo closed loopholes that allowed lS.year-olds to drink wine and beer. colorful to see girls on campus .. It. is ~r t~aining to live iln a world m which there are women if you insist on lteeping women out during the training period.\ In .generally observing the campus Sarma sald that although the campus is more crowded and there are more cars than the.re used to be, he likes the campus better. He especially commented on the \new\ library as ... very lovely.\ Among other changes sarm.a has noted is the new location of the math department, which was located in Carnegie Hall when he was last here. Also, the trimester system ts new to Sarma. He f.eels It has its advantages and disadvantages. ''In som~ courses you can .get done in ten weeks and to keep going is ~ waste of time, but in others you cannot really take JuU time With the course. The trimester would ·~· good if you could withhold. grades until the material is completed, even 1f this takes more than one trimester.· It would .not be ea8y to do this, though: •• Sarma graduated from Andhra University ~d got his MS at Banaras Hindu University, and his Ph.D. at the University of Rochester. Besides his year at Union in 1968-69, he has taught at Banaras University, University of Rochester and SUNY Buf-- falo. Ile said that there are definite differences ln the universities in India as com- pared to those .in th~ P .S. He found that \no student in India works his-her way through college, all are completely or ·mostly -supported by parents.\ There are also fewer women on campuses 'in India. Retul\ning to the comparison of his stay fifteen years ago to today, Sarma finds·· an . espeeially obvious difference in students' attitudes. \Students are much more grades and · exam conscious and less idealistic. I would like to see more idealism. There is plenty of time to .get cynical.'' He also finds that there are ·fewer students interested in pure mathematics, ''less 'Who come for the love of math. This is unfortunate. It is part of a · change in the cultqral pattern of the country. It does not augur well for the future. Sources of inspiration for new discoveries will dry up.~· Samia is currently teaching courses in calculus 10 and 14. ·.Eventually be expects to teach .something in numerical analy~is, poSSibly next .tenn .. He is. a member of the Indian Mathematical .Society, the Indian$ociety for the History of Mathematics and the Academy for Progress of Mathematics. In summing up his rasons for returning to Union, Sarma said ''I liked· what I had seen here, and I like the camplis even more. now.\ oUnion welcomes back Professor Sarma. WRUC Schenectady 89.7,fM. LIVE SPORTS: SATURDA·Y UNION AT RPI COACHES CORNER 1 1 : 15 M~jor corporate. underwriters 1 Schenectady Ga:zeHe Wendy's Call Sports line Wednesday nites 11 p.m. • midQight WIN FOOR PRIZES In the WRUC-Wendy's TRIVIA GAMEl 370·6154; 370.'6151 COMPARE & SAVE \\ ....... eteeo.,cr (374-4332) · Our Original Domino's Riggi's N.Y. Pizzeria PIZZA SIZE 6 cut 8 cut $ 4.82 $ 5.90 $ 4.12· $ 5.99 s 6.05 $ 5.95 • PRICES ARE A CHEESE PIZZA DELIVERED TO UNION COLLEGE. BUY THE BEST,PIZZA AT TH'E BEST PRICE - I I ~ f 1 ~ 3 v ll r t p }. r' b 1! c 0\ n: e: ol tt Ji w c G ac H tcJ m be U: d< tll gr te te Al fu tr1 fu C1 la1 to Jll gr all ea faJ al1 1 l na pa Co to of ( br1 an USI do Wl off to: ffi( gh mE usc we CW buc 17.• for Un wit

CONCORDIENSJS, Octt)ber 1 J, 19B3 Page3 Campaign for Union Right On the Money By SHERRYWEITZEN The facilitl~ Fequire 8 percent for renovation and main· tenance. Finally the last portion of th.e fund, 16.9 ~rcent, is for the ·remllining expenses and is applled to :nearly every area of the college. necessary to .keep Union a first rate college. As part of his final remarks, Bums took the opporturuty to thank many of the key people who worked hard for the campaign and to congratulate all that were present for Ute tremendous effort that they have made for Union. President Morris at the Convocation on Saturday. A celebration took place this Homecoming Weekend in honor of tl)e success ·of the Campaign for Union. The C&mpaign for Union was announced ttu:ee years ago with a goal of raising 38 million dollars, so the college would have the money to provide special progr$DS -and renovations, thus fulfilling Union's ultlinate ·goal of providing a first rate education. A convocation in the. newly renovated Old Chapel was the beginning of th1;3 celebration. Grant contributed the break- do\VIl of the origin of the money, from whlcbthe Alwnni made up the largest pe~ent, 70 percent. Parents contributed 2.1 percent and friends, lO.percent. The rest is ·funded by corporations and businesses (1:0.9. percent), Foundations (5.8 percent), and the government (1.2 percent). Sloan Foundation UpCJate Dr .. Richard G. Day, class of 1939 and chairman of the Campaign for Union, made the opening remarks at the mor- ning convocation. He briefly explained what w~s the ·purpose of the c~paign He then turned the program over. to John L. Grant, class of 1945, who is the chainnan of the College Resources Committee. Grant described the achievements of the campaign. He stated that there was a need to raise money in order to maintain a strong financial base, which is necessary to run Union. In the 1970's, the en- dowment was decreasing for the following reasons: The growth of the college; main- tenance of the low student t() teacher ratio; and inflation. Although tuition and the annual fund were increased, the trustees felt that a drive for funds was necessary, thus, the Campaign for Union was launched. The Qriginal goal was· to raise 38 million dollars by Jtme 1984, yet because of the great· responSe> that goal has already been reached a year early! Grant commented on the fantastic participation of the · alumni, placingUnion in the top 1 percent of all colleges in the nation with regard to alumni participation in the annual fund. Congratulations was eJrtended to Cliff Benfield, the chairman of the annual fund. Grant also explained the break down of the endowment and where the money is being used, The largest percent of the donations is labeled as unrestricted, and allows the officers of the college freedom to apply the moriey to where it is most needed. 16.4 percent is given to faculty and depart· mental needs. This money is used for faculty development as well as the naming of the current 12 faculty chairs. The. budget of the fund allows for 17.4 percent of the money to go for scholarship, which allows Union to provide:gifted students with a chance to attend Union. PresidentMorris was the next speaker at the convocation. In one· of his opening statements ·he remarked that Union ha,s \a criterion of excellence (that is) ab$olutelY. fundamentaL\ He announced the achievements of the campaign, including some of the speCial programs that have been made possible by the campaign. Specifically, he mentioned a reView of the curriculum and. several of the honoary faculty chairs such as the Washington Irving Chair which is occupied by Professor Manfred Jonas. Morris also mentioned a few .of the im- provements made to the physical appearance of the college: the renovation of Becker Hall, made possible by Stanley Becker, · class of 1940 and the renovation of Old Chapel, where · the morning's , convocation was. being held, which is in the process of being converted lnto a seminar and meeting nail. ThiS renovation was made possible by the Mobile Foundation. The arts building, which was re(!ently redone, was renovated with matching funds from the Kresge Corporation and ~rnold Burns, class of 1950 and chairman of the Board of Trustees. Morris concluded that this support in terms of the annual fund and the campaign for Union has continued Union's reputation . as a \propd and confident institution.'' Arnold Burns was the last speaker at the convocation. His speech consisted of a look toward the future in terms of the campaign and im· provements for the college. He stated the necessity of the renovation of alumni gym and the construction of a college center. He announced \a super goal for ~ super future\ which was to extend the campaign for Union until 1985, and aim to raise .50 million dollars. He was optimistic that this goal could be reached, and expressed the importance of the campaign ATtENTION: APPLICATIONS ARE lOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR THE FOlLOWING POSITIONS: Planning and Priorities Committee (I opening) Independent Student Coalition Representative ( 1 opening.) The Independent Student Coalition (I SC) is a lobbyi·ng group that represents the interest.s of the independent sector of higher education in New York State. The ISC representative Will be a liason between the ISC and the Student Forum, and will serve as a non-voting member of the Student Forum. Pick Up applications in the Student Activities Offl:ce. Deadline: October 21, 1983. Respectfully submitted, Jared Squires Chalrperson, Committee on Committe.e.s By.JtJDmSTEINHARDT Last year Union was one of ten schools to receive a SloM . Foundation Grant of .$250,1100. The Sloan Foundation, ~n educational support gro11p, wanted to make improvements mainly in the area of technological skills within tile liberal arts curriculum. Acc()rding to Professor Alan Taylor, director of the Slo~n Program at Union, Union was a good candic;late for the grllllt because it already had both strong technological programs and solid liberal arts progran:1s. The goal of the foundation w.as to integr-ate the two through faculty and course devebp- c: ~ L. ~ 0 '0 ·::; Ill 0 >- .0 ~ .c: a. Prof. Alan Taylor, Directorof.the Sloan ProgramatUnion. ment. One of the ways the Sloan Foundation is developing its program is through faculty seminars. One such seminar on nuclear weapons and ar:ms control was held for two weeks this past summer at MIT and Harvard. The seminar was fUnded by the Sloan Foundation out of \the grants already received. Two f~culty members were invited from each school receiving a grant and one fron each school· which applied, but did not receive it. Professor Nichols, of the political science department, and Professor Martin, of the chemistry department, were the faculty members from Union who were ·chosen... to attend. Forty·five people attended the seminar. There were thirty-five faculty members from across the country, specializing in various fields, and ten authorities ()ll nuclear weapons and-or arms control. These authorities in- cluded one army colonel, some people working on the nuclear freeze mov~ment, and women respOnSible for the anti-nuclear coalition in Washington. The foctis of the seminar was on arms issues in the 1980;s. Nichols, who feels he learned a lot at the seminar, sqid there was tension among the par- ticipants from the start. :MIT and Harvard.had just published a book, LIVing With the Boml>, which expressed the view that the U.S. has nuclear weapons and it is going to have to find the best way to live with them. While some people supported this view, others felt nuclear arms need to be eliminated. People came to the seminar with very strong opinions, however, facts and figures were presented to them which Silp\- ported and refuted each side. Nichols, who is used to looking at nuclear arms from a strategic viewpoint, rather than a technical one, was intrigued by the technology involved in building and using weapons. He said they were taught how a bomb is made and how it is triggered. They learned abo11t Soviet military capability, numbers and types of weapons. One lecture was on a star wars defense system, which is the ability to knock rockets out of space. He said that they did nClt gain any information unavailable to the general . public, it was jtist unique to ~ee it all come together, something which the public does not get the opportunity to see. Part of the seminar focused on the different sides of the nuclear arms dilemma. Father Bryan Hehir, who wrote the bishop's statement on nuclear arms and deterrence, discussed the theological and moral issues · of nuclear arms. There was intense discussion and debate between the participants because they disagreed on Ute issues. other lectures included: a) American nuclear weapons, what we have ·chosen to build and why. We .are building lighter bombers with greater accuracy, while the Soviets have stubbornly adhered to the use of heavier bombers; b) The -strategic triad--manned bombers, nuclear submarines; and ballistics missiles; c) Terminology of nuclear weapons; making people better acquainted with the language; d) How to plan strategy-· nuclear deterrence and nuclear protection; e) The concept of extended deterrence--will it last? ; and f) The history of arms control. Nichols found the seminar to be very interesting. He was especially fascinated by . the technical aspect of the seminar because that is the phase which he knows the least about. Nichols added that, \I knew almost nothing about the science and technology of the system.\ He said he was \professionally interested and needed to know more.\ From the list of the topics covered at the s.eminar, it can be seen that Nichols got more than enough information on the tecluiology of nuclear weapons. Professor Martin, on the other hand, was interested in learning the politics of nuclear weaponry, since that was where his knowledge was somewhat lacking. He said, \I'm quite naive as a political analyst.\ The· seminar sparked his in- terest in .the pOlitical view so much that Martin is taking a political science course this term in order to learn even more. His point of view of the seminar was quite different from Nichols', although he also .feels he benefited from it. He said people approached the seminar with suspicion. People were wondering why the seminar was being given and why to this particular group. He said, \Much of the faculty had the feeling that many of us would accept too readily a one- sided point of view.\ People believed they would be fed an \administration type view-not necessarily Reagan, but the establishment, politicians, and statesmen.\ They soon discovered they were wrong, however, when they attended the lectures and read the 2000 pages of literature. Professor Martin said that the faculty who taught. at the seminar was \not homogenous in thinking\ and several points of view were presented. Martin was fascinated more by the discussions in the social sciences. He remembers particularly a lecture given by George Rathgens, who was active in the Federation of .American Scientists, a group which fought for civilian control of the Atomic Energy Com· mission. Rathgens' lecture was on the budgeting of weaponry, which was presented in a humorous but infonnative way. Another high point of the seminar was a trip to Groton, Connecticut, in which the participants boarded two nuclear attack submarines. The submarines were for attacking potentially hostile vessels to make an area safe for other ships or submarines. The military explained the function of the vessels. Martin was impressed by this trip because it gave the observers some reassurance. They came out believing that there is not likely to be a war by any kind of ac- cident. Launch stations are very secure, and submarine} that do shoot offensively, do so very accurately. Martin also learned, \Despite what politicians may say, we're not in any grave missile gap.\ He understands why people are worried, but he believes we are well protected. Martin has a very strong opinion on nuclear weapons and arms control, yet he was not left unaffected by what he learned. This seminar helped to exemplify some of the goals of the Sloan Foundation~ If two sucb knowledgeable professors could learn so much by examining topics outside their disciplines, it is obvious that there is a need for people to look beyond their specialties. The Sloan Foundation believes it is important for .schools to offer a variety of courses in both liberal arts and science and technology, making them available for people outside their major field of study. This seminar was one small step in the formation of a more in· tegrated curriculum. at Union as well as other schools. .c: ~ I.. 0 3: 0 \C ·:; 10 -a >- n 0 ' .... 0 .r: 0. 0 1- 0 :I: c.. V) J: 1- w V) IX UJ > w a:::

. . •\ Page4 CONCQRDIENSIS. October 13, J-983 .Statements FOr Sophomore Representative \' ro Cl :c: u 11.1 c: r:: Q, ro .Q 0 - 0 r:: Q. Eric Colsman Colsman What bothers me about aU of this (the class representative elections) is the meager voter turnout. That is why I want ·to r1m: to get more of us interested and involved. The awesome .class of '86 has three full years at Union left, which is plenty of time to change and improve Union and still be around to enjoy the changes we make. Heidi Kahn· Dave Marin Marin A lot of things go on around here that bug the hell out of me. Don't get me wrong. I think this school is great, but some things need changing. Instead of just sitting and complaining like I usually do, I have decided to ,run for sophomore representative and try to set straight some of the things going wrong. Here are some of the things that bug me and what I think should be done about them: 1) Food Service-The new 10 and 14 meal plans no longer· make sense for many non- freshmen students. Surely there is a better solution to the problem of \cheating\. 2) Majors-Minors-In add.i- tion to dual majors and \in- terdepartmental maj.ors\ students should have the chance to \minor\ in some area. portunity to give you some general information about myself. First of all, my major is Biology~Computer Science. Last year I was a member of the College cheerleading squad and the Biology Club. I am also involved in intramurals-- namely Broomba1I. \' ro Cl ·- r:: u CLI c: r:: Q, ·-a 0 > Q 0 ·-'•·· ... 0 \. r:: Q, ·. .. ',• .~ . Minehan It is my intention to try and represent the class of 1986 and their needs to the best of- my ability. With a little help from you, my fellow classmates, this task will be much easier. If elected to the position of Sophomore Representative, I would appreciate hearing from you. You see, if you voice your concerns to me, I will be more aware and better able to represent the class. In this way, I will be able to present the Sophomore's views to the Forum and enable the general interests of th.e class to be heard. In conclusio», let me say, the elections are Friday, October 14th and I would · be · very grateful for your support at the polls! New Dorms ByLYNNHANO Anyone walking by Tri-Delta or Fiji lately cannot help · bqt n.otice the major construction taking place below Fox and Davidson. Those living in the building have had the .pleasure in the last month of not only seeing but hearing the con- struction taking place. As most peQple are aware, tbe basements of both Fox and Davidson are being tran- sformed into male houSing to alleviate the problem of the cranunedfive person suites and the general housing shortage. Dave Wood, Associate Dean of Residence Life, was asked how .people were chosen to move into the new rooms. He replied that the freshmen that J;\eturried their housing contract last were sent letters this summer stating that they would be hotu~ed temporarily in a five person suite · until the new double rooms in Fox. and ,Davidson were completed at the end of fall term. ASked whether \there bas been any problems in people wanting to move from the suites, Wood responded that there have been· very few ob- jections especially since people were told about the large and comfortable rooms that they would soon be living in. Currently, Davidson is un- dergoing the last stages of construction, whereas Fox is lagging behind. Tlie target date for Davidson to be completed is in late October or early November. The college wantsto make moving into the rooms as convenient as possible, so those who will be moving into Davidson can make the decision of moving in right away or waiting to the end of fall term as not to interfere with school work, Construction on Fox should be completed by mid- December and ready for students by January 1: · A:; one walks in the door below Tri-IJelta there ls a large open space which will be the lounge, At the end of the lounge there is a ramp which goes up to tbe right and .leads to a haU with rooms ,off of .it. A. model room. was off this hall. Tbe waUs of this large room were a mauve color. The other rooms were beige and blue. There is also gray wall•to-waU carpeting, a huge cork board and new oak dressers and deskS. This model room which looks out onto Union Street is qui~e bright. A combination of the bright walls and the sun shining into the long push out Wi,ndows allows one to· almost forget that one is in the basement. The relatively low ceilings is one remincier that the donns are under:ground. The furniture in the room certainly seemed adequate and quite attractive. The first floor washroom is not yet complet yet already it has the essentials, urinals, toilet stalls, sinks and showers. The walls and floors are ~ed with tile and there is plenty of space. Leaving the bathroom there is another hall to the right with rooms coming off of that. In that hall was a single which ap- peared larger than most of the singles on campus. Each floor in Fox and Davidson will house 25 to 26 people, with mostly double rooms aM a couple of Singles. The singles Will be occupied by upperclassmen. Who will move in has not yet been decided. According to Wood, after everyone has moved into the . new rooms, the architect will meet with the .students to tell them about the floor and how to • enjoy it to its fullest. .:q Cl :c u Ill c: .t: a. Ill 0 >- .c 3) Professor Evaluation-· Ever wonder what happens to those evaluations you fill out at the end of each course? I propOSe: 1) A committee of CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS ~ .t: a. Kahn When the position of sophomore representative became vacant this year, I felt this was my opportunity to get involved not only with my class, but with the entire college community. As a represen- tative of the class of 1986, I would urge my fellow classmates to take advantage of the numerous activities this ' college has to offer. AlSO! I would hope that they would bring to me any new ideas or issues of concern so that I, in turn, could present them to the student forum. Although I have no previous experience on the forum, r am one who will not hesitate to let my voice be heard. 1'his posi~on of sophomore representative also involves being a member of the committee on committees. As a member of tlie C.O.C., I promise to deal with aU ap- plications on an equal basis and to give serious consideration to all those interested in forming new clubs. As a final note, I just want to ask that all sophomores get out and vote tomon-ow, be it for me or one of my opponents. Exercise your right to be heard. · students and faculty be established to investigate student complaints and make recommendations based upon their conclusions, 2) The creation of a booklet with teacher descriptions and evaluations based on student opinion (this is not new....other schools have done this before). 4) Involvement-You don't have to do a lot to get things done. Just bring your problems to me and let me complain for you. Don't sit and be mad. 5) The N ott-~Everybody wants something done about it. Let's examine the various proposals, pick one, and try to get things in motion. Martha Mine han Hi, my name is Martha~ M~ehan and I'm running for Sophomore Representative to the Student Forum. For anyone who is unaware of the present .situation, a vacancy. was created in. the Student Forum for the position of. Sophomore Representative upon the departure of Sharon Levine to the University of Pennsylvania. For those of you who don't know me, let me take this op- ·Private Aid Available Students returning to school this fall may · now apply for private financial aid, according to Tbe Scholarship- Bank. . According to Steve Danz, director of the nationwide service, private financial aid is the most often overlooked source of student aid, yet ac- counts for nearly 500 million dollars, or one-quarter of all scholarship money available. The Scholarship Bank is the largest private search firm in the country and works with college financial aid& offices to bring private scholarships to student applicants. A student sendS a stamped self-addressed envelope to the bank at 10100 Santa Monica No. 2600, Los Angeles, CA 90067 and receives a questionnaire. The form is then sent back to the bank with a check for $35 or $45 depending on how many sources the students want (25 or up to 75). The package which is then sent to the student giY'es the name, type of award, eligibility fac- tors, and address of the source. Or, the student .can order the r-----------------------, · application for that particular source directly from the bank after receiving the print-out: SOPHOMORES. VOTEI Friday I October 14 I from 9 a.m. • 4 p.m. in Carnegie Hall According to th~ director, most students find about 15 sources they actually write to. Private financial aid is usually not need based, but involves such factors as the student's desired major and occupational goal, area o~ the country they wish to work in, religion, special interests and. hobbies and parents' background. A number of new scholarships this year have opened for business, computer, health and law students, for a total of about 25,000 scholar- ships. Talk.on , the ''Mid-East and Oil'' ' Michael D. Jones, director of the Centre for International Studies at the Management School, Henly-on-Thames, England, will discuss \The Mid- East and Oil\ at Union Thur- sday, Oct. 13, The Administrative and Engineering. Systems Colloquium will begin at 3:45 p.m. in Room 312, Bailey Hall, and is free and open to the public. · Jones has set-ved in various lnternational management, consulting and director positions in Europe and the Mid· East in the oil mdustry. He has received degrees from Birbeck College and the London School of Econottli:cs, and has been associated with · the in· ternational management r>rograms at Henley since lfY17. For many years, Jones has served as representative of the Gulf Oil Company . in Kuwait and has personal contact with many government and bllsiness leaders in that area. He is currently on a lecture tour of the United. ·States which in· eludes stops at Harvar.d and Union. Union Receives Gift The Union chapter of Sigma Xi, an honorary · organization ded.icated to the encouragement of scientific research, has received a gift of $1 ,0001 ac- cording to Garland Branch, professor of electrical engineering and computer science at the college. The gift iS from six members of the Nuclear Magnetic Resonance program for the General Electric Research and Development Center, who co- authored a paper . presented at the Society of . Magnetic Resonance Imaging's national conference. The .conference was held in Colorado Springs in February. Their paper was selected as. the best at the conference, and the authors were presented with $1,000to be used to further scientific research. Dr. J.F. Schenck, one . of the paper's authors, said the writers decided to give the funds to the local chapter of S . . 'Xi'. . lgma . The check was presented at the recent Sigma Xi annual brulquet. I I I • ' c j . 1 I I •

• .,. v · CONCORDIENSIS, October 13, 1983 FEATURES ' Humor- The Computer Phenomenon By J .C. SnPHENS When Elmo \'as given the assignment, he thDugbt little of it . . . even less aoout how it might change his perceptions of the new .computer phenomenon. Not familiar with its en- vironment, not knowledgeable of the inhabitants, Elmo was at first reluctant .to · leave his , conunon turf and to venture forth· towards the dreaded computer center. He dismissed, what were to now, unfounded presuppositions and rumors of the evils that lurked within what was known as the Stanley Peschel Home for the Logically Insane. What b.e was to find, however, was to be the greatest shock his liberal ar.ts mind had ever seen. The long corridor ended with . the nuke of neon light. Beyond its end he coUld :hear the clat• tering of keyboards oc- casionallY breaking through the silence. After vent11ring forth a few steps he stopped in front of a room fondly known as the \Express TeFIIlinal Room.\ That seemed a contradiction in terms; express-terminal, the words seemed to suggest a fast road to death. Looking inside Elmo observed..- an impressive array of typewriter-like in- struments. Ea~ll connected to its own tel~visio~.screen? ~e ~elt comforted by .Its familiarity. \Cable T.V.!'' Elmo muttered to hilllself, \was · this where M. T.V. came from.7\ The mind which had only known Melville, Hawthorne, Supply, Demand, ~Features Writers Needed! Call6155 and conditioned respon$e8 to a bell ran wild with the .thoughts of green display that eman$ted from that screen. Later he wQuld find CRT was the more appropos name for the device. A smile crept across his face and heheadedtowards the infamous ''Computer Room.'' Approaching the entrance he heard someone speak out: \Shit! . . · . it compiles but it won't. run.\ What strangeness, \Compile \Run \Snit. Entering the room Elmo ob- served 20 or more .of those strange T.V. devices, and behind each one lied a slumped- over, grimydooking, creature with its eyes firmly attached to that screen. Each basking in the light of the green ,display, they appeared as the victims. ofsome mutant vira'l strain. The sterility of the white walls and the neon light, only occasionally broken up by that strange green glow, worked its way Jrtto Elmo'S cranium.. .Standing there, overwhelmed as he was, he sought composlll'e in a vacant spot by the walL Once there the comfort soon vanished. \This chair sure is nice! It swivels and goes up and down ... real nice. This· isn't so· bad after all.'' However, ·as Elmo attempted to connect himself to the system, as others had, problems arose. His ·assignment was quite simple: get on the system, put his name in a datafile and get a printout. He. hit bllttons haphazardly. Typing in his name, go start, please, compile, help, run. Each time the.same thing happened: nothing. Then he sought out help. i'l)rning to the creature sitting next to ·llim he asked, ''Can you please help me?\ Swiveling around, the creature uttered ''Core dUIDp, binary, bexadecim al, flowchart, array, jobfile, tum- around, hardcopy ... \ ''I just want to get ,on the system,\ Elmo said. \How do I do that?\ TUESDAY IS ,UNION COLLEGE N,ITE Union College • · =· :II ~- ~· ~ Seward Pl. • N.Jay h~ppyhour prices ·from 1 O~\til ciGsing . Mixed Drinks $1.25 10 N. Jay St •• Schenectady_ 374-4836 P.S.: Don,tforget us the rest • ofthe week! Wecl. & Thurs.: Two for one.10 to .2 Fri. & Sat.: Late Nlte Hl't ($1.25 mixed drinks) 12 to 2 Nora.-Thuri.: 10% discount on dinners with Union I. D. Well, that mutant started to smirk and then quietly laugh. ae turned around and told his comrade what Elmo had said. In a matter of moments everyone knew and were all laughing hysterically. Elmo was worried. They were all soon hunched aro1,1nd him. A terrifying situation to say the least. . . they all kept talking jihberish, ''Baud'-rate, CRT, ~odem, HP, Burroughs, Vax,\ Elmo had to escape. Rising to exit this agony~ he· was only subdued back to his seat by the thought of not handing ·his assignment in tomorrow, and he would not be controlled by these strange beings. When despair had all but destr.oyed that fine liberal arts mind, a beacon of light ... pure white light came gleaming through the evil green. David B. Lewis, author of Eureka! Math Fun From Many Angles .and How to Create Garnes For Your TRS-80 is a Union studen1. Student Author It was our her()--\ Mr. Security Man. A short, slightly pudgy, gray-haired man with spec- tacles, garnishing a flashlight as his side-arm. All at once, the creatures drew back from Elmo. Shining that pure white light at their eyes, they with- drew as the vampire does to the cross. \Back you digit·heads, back!\ he cried-shining that light in all directions. \At it again are you? Well, you won't get this one like you did all the others! \With one fell swoop our hero grabbed Elmo up and carried. him off. Thankful for his help EJmo cried out: \Thank- you Mr. Security Man! You are my hero!\ \No need to thank me son, its all in a day's work for Mr. Security Man. That's what we're here for. Just call again if you have any more problems.\ And with that helpful advice the man in polyester was gone. Awe-struck, Elmo left that monstrous place and traveled back towards a terminal in the Social Science building. With the happy feeling of being able to complete his assignment he smiled and thought to himself: ''Social Science, now that has a meaning . . . real human meaning. I guess ru settle fol' a little less money for a digit-head. I'll never be! \ By DAVE FITZGERALD Associate Fea.tures Editor and LINDA ZAHNLENTER Features Staff Each year Union College's freshman class is composed of students with varied .interests and accomplishments. One student in the class of 1987 has already written two books and a nmnber of magazine articles. His name is David B. Lewis, and he is the author of Eureke! Math Fun From Many Angles and How to Create Games for your TRS-80. It is apparent that this young. freshman has already met with great success in writing. The inspiration for Eureka! springs from a very strong inter~t that Lewis has in math and English. In ninth grade he first had the idea for a math magazine that would be a forum for interesting math discoveries, problems, and puzzles. He made a proposal to the math department at his high school to start the magazine off, but the proposal was not ac- cepted by school ad- ministrators. His parents then suggested that he try again, this time with two changes made in the game plan. Lewis's mother and father recom- mended that he publish his idea in the form of a book, and that he do this independently of his high school. Lewis was able to receive one complete high school credit in total, half of a credit for the writing of Eureka!, and half for selling it. Once these details were finalized, the researcll for Eureka! began. The next steps towar<ls ac- complishing Lewis's goal, research and writing, were done during the summers after Lewis's ninth and tenth grade. Lewis's parents, who are also writers, were a great in- spiration to Lewis. They helped him find a literary agent to represent his ideas. In December of his Junior year in high school Lewis was told that -a publisher wanted to buy his book. The following spring was spent finishing the book and finally in August of this year it was released. Even bebre the book was released several thousands of copies had been pre-ordered by one ()f the largest retail book stores, Walden Books. According to Lewis his book is ''A smorgasbord of problems~ puzzles, essays, and trivia all written in a style that I hope even non-mathematically oriented people will enjoy reading.\ During the second week of Fall Tenn, Lewis was told that another of his book pr()posals had been sold. In addition to writing books, Lewis has sold computer games to mag~zines and is a contributing editor for MicroKids magazine. David Lewis appears t<J be a highly motivated and active student. Having aLready published one book and with another on the way, it appears that the class of 1987 may ltave a future famous writer among its ranks. 8/fi 8RfJ THERS-8/G SISTERS Annual Picnic. 'The Annual Picnic will be held at the home of Dr. and Mrs. George Voss, 2827 Rosendale Rd,, ·Schenectady, NY 12309. This is a free, fun-filled event with lots of food, activities, games, and socializing. Please call our office to make reser- vations. All Big Brothers and Big Sisters and tl:teir Littles are invited. Big Brother Highlight Many special friendships develop with Big Brothers-Big Sisters and their Littles. We want to highlight just such a match between a Big Brother, named Dave and his Little Brother, Joey. Dave had had a very positive Posters Godiva Chocolates Kites • Teddy Bears Open 10:30-5:30. Thurs. to 8:3() 164 Jay Street Schenectady, New York 12305 Phone: 518.374-2803 impact on his Little Brother, Joey. Joey needed to kn()W that someone cared about him and that school attendance and homework were impcrtant issues. Joey's attendartce at school and his study habits have improved dramatically from last year. Dave and Joey share good times together, but recently Dave was sick and his Little Brother was there to help him. This is a fine example of a strong, caring friendship. We are proud of them. both. CapitolS Run a Success Many thanks to all tlte Big Brother-Big Sister volUllteers who assisted with the Capitol 8 Race held on October 2. A special thanks to Dave Frederick and Jay Baruch for their successful recruiting of Big Brothers and Big Sisters ft>r the race.

Page6 <llllltCilrbirusis FounJnj a1 lin1on roJI~t 1/177 ~--~------ ~~------- 63 Years Young Four years of bard work have cuhninated in great success. WRUC now broadcasts loud and clear from. Carnegie Hall with lOOwatts of power.· The campus community shQuld sit up and take note of the fact that OUR radio station, the first radio station wi~h regular programming in the United States, is now better than ever. WRUC can now be heard in downtown Albany, which, aside from sounding impressive, means that Union awareness can expand further into the area. · ' WRUC will celebrate its sixty-third birthday tomorrow, and we should all be proud to have a radio station with a, history and degree of professionalism as outstanding as this one. Happy birthday, WRUC, and congratulations. To Replace Watt WRUC gained 90 watts this week, but President Reagan's cabinet lost one. Yes, Secretary of the In- terior James Watthas finally resigned his post. Environmentalists have been fervently fighting the insane actions of this crude and insensitive man since hi~ appointment by Reagan nearly three years ago. Watt is clearly an antiaenvironmentalist, and has proven this again and again by selling or leasing our sensitive fores~, plains and coast_li.nes to industrial interests that disrupt and destroy the -balance of nature. The environment, by and large, is irreplaceable. A Secretary of the Interior should, above all, respect this fact and strive to preserve our natural resources. Instead, Watt blatantly disregarded the pleas of environmentalists and went right on parceling out the nation to ultimate devastation. Not only was Watt a buffoon professionally, but his biting, insipid comments have, at- one time or another, probably offended every living soul in the United States. He opened his mouth often about issues on which he was completely ignorant, and ended up inserting his foot. Certain incidents about American Indians and the Beach Boys come to mind ... Yet the strangest thing about Watt's tenure in office is not bis behavior, but that of his boss. Reagan kept this man in his cabinet despite the outrageous com ... ments and policies. · . . This is not a matter to be taken lightly. Once the joyous cries of environmentalists and millions of temporarily spared animals die down, a new secretary will have to be appointed. If Reagan's refusal to dismiss Watt indicates approval of actions, we're still in trouble. We aj; Union all signed those petitions in Carnegie Hall calling for Watt's removal, but now we need to do more .. Cabinet appointments are subject ·to Senate confirmation, and during recent weeks many senators have expressed dissatisfaction with Watt. We need to convey a feeling to our senators that Watt's replacement shoUld be notbing like Watt. Reagan will name who he wants, but maybe, just maybe, the Senate might listen if enough people yell. And we must yell soon. The worst thing America could do right now is to become complacent with Watt's departure. We're not out of the woods yet. Nor are we out of woods yet. There -is still time to make ourselves beard, before Reagan literally bulldozes the wool over our nation's eyes once again. . . \ SOPH·OMORES Remember to vote for your forum representative tomorrow! Polls open-9 am-4 pm in Carnegie Hall Have a say in who represents you! CONCORDI£NSIS, October I Ji 1983 ~LETTERS Alumn,i Office Expresses. Thanks . To the EdJtor: efforts to make this a spec- tacular weekend and hope that ~eekend. We·know- th.at a great amount oftbne and .eae~gy went. · into the special Homecoming insert. We would like to express our you enjoyed.yourselves.as mucli enormotis thanks to aU the as we did. · students and student Congratulations to all of you organizations who supported w:ho participated in our 4th Homecoming Weekend 'll:l. In Annual Homecoming Parade. particular, special thanks:to·the The floats were works of art. and · The entire Alumni ()fftce Staff has enjoyed working with this year's Student H()~e~:oming Committee and all of our student volunteer,s. We are already looldng (orward: to o11r , Homecoming Weekend·'84t Homecoming Committee who - ·certainly re6ected the time and planned and staffed the entire ingeneuity put into -Cotl$1'1.lcting weekend, and the organiza~ions them. SpeciaJ co~atUlatio~ who sponsored the various to the winners: Best overall weekend events. . float--North-South; ~ost The spirit and cooper~tbn of origina'l~NQrth·South; Best the weekend were felt l)y all. Use of Materials-SDT;·Ciosest Thanks to all· of you, the to the Theme-Fox. Sincerely, · · E41itb Berll:owttz · Harry DelllfleD ''7 Chrissie VIUl\VGfOler ·lkb lrubD '69 : schedule of events was Qot onlY Also,a special noteof thanks to extensive and impressive, but the'CoaeorcUeusls staff for their was executed perfectly as well; £ull cooperation and assistance We appreciate your time and in . promoting -this big fall KathyNwlaliey '7t · Gall Mund '81 ·Songs Draw Criticism - To tbe Editor: This letter is in reference to the behavior of the Rugby Club in the Skellar after Saturday'.s · game. I realize that the singing ' of more than rude but downright vu1gar songs at the . Skellar after and before games · is a tradition, perhaps not only of our team but of the S(J()rt. . ·Saturday's di~play , however, . was particularly offensive because of the presence of several alums who had with them small children. ·As a woman, Ifeelthatl have a right to feel comfortable and un· threatened in. any public facUlty on campus that I choose to frequent. The sadistic nature of some of these songs and the manner in which they are sung threaten this right. As. a Jew I would feel similarly if a drunken group Which, out- numbered me and were in· dividually much bigger than me - began to sing antlstlmetic tunes. The princlple, ·1 feel. 1s no dif· .ferent. Yet, when the vidinls are women the probelem is overlooked. - If the Club feels the necessity to sing these songs,then at least . they sh.ouldbe sung in a ,private . facility, like one ()f the fr~ter· ~ . nity bDuses, where myself and other women and sensitive men do not have to hear th.em . Name Witheld Cabaret - All Are. Welcome· T() the Editor: Cabaret, the student night\ club, is designed to prDmote entertainment on -a weekly From the ' Governor's Office To the Editor: There are few probleins , confronting the \Family of New York\ more serious tbart the continuing deterioration of the transportation f-acilities that are the backbone of this State,s economy. As the recent br-idge disaster in a neighboring state tragically reminded us; we cannot ignore this problem any longer. _ I ha:ve proposed,- and both houses ofthe Legislature hav~ passed, a $1.25 billion Rebliild . New York Bond Issue to pr()vide funds to renovate . roads, bridges, waterways, rails a11d airport facilities. As t11e sweepeing, bi·partisan en- · dt>rsements ofthe RebuildNew York Bond Issue demonstrates, the need for this program is clear. . To help your readers dec!de this issue for themselves, Iltave ·. directed that informatiomd 1 materials be made available upon requeSt. The materials ean be obtained by writing: basis. students and, faculty work together in many areas_: singers, bands, jugglers, M.C. 's, waiters, waitresses, managers, sound technicians, :;md kitchen workers. Cabaret is not an exclusive club-all are welcome and encoJU'aged to participate. Because many talented students have graduated, we are anxiously searching for fresh .and varied Editors-in-Chief News Editors ' Features Editor - Associate Features Editors Arts Editors CampusPageEditors - Sports Editors Advertising Editors Layout Advisor Photo Editor performers. We're a'l~ays looking for new waiters and waitresses as well. Cabaret is a great way to start llP your Thursday .night, .so stop by on Thursday evenings, at 1:1:45- and 10:45; orcaU: Debbie and Lisa,· at 37o-6866. - Hope to see you soon! SUSIWStem '84 Anne- Konlfel~ '85 Julie Abelman, Doug Landon Jay Baruch,, Gayle Rosenfe~d DoMa Gets()n Dave Fitzgerald,- - Franklin Sclmeider Debbie Albert Karerr Lissa11er Karen.Gteaves, Jill Kaufman · Drew Hurley, Paul .Kur~er · Mary Ann Gagliardi, Heidi Rosen PeterMollt .Mary Phillips Daphne Cbigas R()bert Tang, Bonnie Rosenber-g LotiKaplan David Neib1um Jan Baran, Rich Biegen, Jill Bradley, Jodi BreiUler, Lou George, Sam Gifford, Josh Greene, Chris Hand, LynnHano, Dave Marin, Christine Marsching, Robin Molella., Lori Oliwenstein,. Associate Photo Editor Sports Photo Editors Subscriptions Editor Political Cart<>onist Staff Bond Information Task Force, . Building 5, 1220 W asbington · Avenue, Albany, New York~. · . 12232; or calling a toll•free Steve Piraino, Linda Raffaele, Wendy Richards, Rob Rissell, Debbie Rose, Patti Sacks, Judie Steinhardt, Janice Thompson, Peter Stegeman, Betsy Treitlei\ Margot Salisbury, Sherry Weitzen, Philip Westerman,. Scott Wykoff, Linda Zahnlenter JonBarofsky,.Jim Campbell, David Dworkin, Liz Karazim, PaUl Klein, Pat Merr~~, Patti Sac~. Larry Sh~piro Photo Staff information number, 1.000-424- 4421. The need is real and the issue · is important. I urge your · readers to know the facts anti · make their vote count by · . supporting the Rebuild N\ew · · York Bond Issue on November- 8. ~ Sincerely,. ·· Mario M. Cuo:Jil!J CONCORDIENSIS is . pUblished every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady~ Ne}V · York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehallila - Publica_tions, Inc., Box 388,.Sidney, New York 13838 (607)-563 .. 7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first ,class ·matter. Subscription rate, $18 per year, delivered anywhere in the United.States. . · _ . CONCORDIE~SIS subscribes to the COllege Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College NewsBureali (CNB). Office Telephone~ 37.0-6155. t I i : j fl ' I 1 j - it. r .l·· { .,. .. I '~.··- ~ II ,\ ·~ I ' J. II I

COJYCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1983 P•ge 7 •• < .. •• ~·. COMMENTARIES . Politi.cal Foru~m News From .Was.hington presents ........ A Wine & Cheese Reception with' Schenectady Mayoral Candidate · Karen Jobnson Today, Thurs., Gcfo 13 Strauss Lounge, 4:30-6:00 p.m. STUDENTS AND FACULTY ~WELCOME Commentaries represent the views of theciuthor and not the· Editorial Board of Concordit!nSi$ - By JA.CK ANDERSON andJOESPEAR WASHINGTON - Carl and Cargl Froe,se have a w~kend home on the Delaware Water Gap. It's a small stonehQuse at DingmBJl'S Ferry, Pa. Carl, a World War II and Korean War veteran,. inherited it from his mother .. The Froeses planned to spend their retirement years there. . ButtheNational Park Service is deteimined to euchre the Foreses out of their retirement dre~Un. The - agency wants to tear the house down ·so there will be no permanent habitations ·on a planned recreation area. It's· not the~ first time the Froeses have been threatened with eviction. Ten years ago, their little bouse and many · I· others in the scenic area were bought by the Anny Cerps of Engineers. The property was to have been part of a reservoir created by a dam the engineers were going to .buUd. But in 1975, Congress decided that the dam· was a waste of money and called the project off. The Army then turned the land over to the Park Service, whic-h served notice on the Froeses and everyone else that tney would have to get out by the end of 1981. The Park Ser- vice didn't want anyone living --on the recreation land. The Jrroeses and their fl.jendS sought help from Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J., and Rep. DO~ YOU HAVE TALENT?! . CABARET NEEDS YOlL /. . . . / To all those interested in. pedorll'iing at Cabaret, there vrill he an organitatiol!al meeting on ftlonday, Oct. Uth at 8:30 in the Cabclref Room .. ,. ~ . If you play a!'l instrument I aing,· etc. and woliild·like ~0 get together with other students to form an act, this is the meeting for youl . . · If yov want to perform llut cannot 11ttend the m~eting·-contact: .Ri~k· Box,6.2'2 Phone 370•.18 22 l~media~e.ly I . Freshmen & Sophomores encouraged James Courter, R-N.J. ,Bills were introduced in CongresS that would give them per-- manent rights to the land. But the proposed legislation didn't pass. . At one point, the Froeses obtaiJled a· promise from the · Park Service thatthey coUld get a stay of eViction if their home passed an official inSpection. But the Park Service played dirty:. It bought the local water company . and cut off the Froeses' waters~pply. Then the agency ruled they ·couldD't pass ih$pection Without water. 'I'lle Froeses refused ta give up. They dug their own :well and passed inspection. One hundred forty otJler homes didn't pass and were d~royed by the Park Service. Even with their weUs, the Froeses and their neighbors will be kicked off their property in February. Their only hope is for special legislation by COngress allowing them to stay, or for the Interior .Department to grant them special use permits. Meanwhile, the government doesn't have any definite plans for the property it is SO' deter- mined to bUlldoze. The Park Service insists that · a management plan is bei(tg drawn · up. But officials ad- mitted to my reporter Kevin Elli$ that such plans may take as many as 20 years to put into operation. Carl and Carol F,roese could probably live out their retirement years .before the bureaucrats in Washington actually need to tear down their little stone house. Satemte KUler: Tbe United ~tes will soon be able to blow· Soviet space satellites out of the air-a feat the Russians have been able to do for more than 10 years. The new u.s. weapon- called a \miniature homing vehicle,\ or MHV-will be ready for use next year, ac- cording to Pentagon Sources. It will be given a test flight this month. The Soviets' satellite-killer explodes lUte a shrapnel burst. The American version is en· tirely different. It resembles a flying tin can, and it will be released .from an F-15 fighter jet. Its two stage rocket will carry it toward the target at an amazing 500 miles a minute. A built-in computer, infrared telescopes and 55 small rockets around the weapOn's waist Will carry it to the target satellite- but it won't ·explode. The im· pact. alone will destroy the target. The MHV will have to be accurate to within one foot to accompliSh its mission. Deeper Involvement?: Will the United States be drawn deeper into the fighting in Nicaragua? The CIA seems to be doing its best to arrange it. Here's the story: .. Last month, anti-8andinista guerillas bombed Managua. They did it at the CIA's suggestion. The idea was to show Congress that the guerillas are a serious mint~ force that deserves continued U.S. support. Now the Nicaraguan government has asked for assistance from the Kremlin. Intelligence sources say that 14 MiG-17s have been·· secretly flown to Cuba for use in Nicaragua. The Pentagon, according to our sources is co~idering ·a ''slU;'gical\ air strike against the . MiG-17s if they are delivered to Nicaragua. That probably means that U.S. planes would be used, because the guerillas. don't have any that could do the job. Headlines and F~tnotes: The new James Bond film, \Never Say Never Again,\ is expected to be a gib hit at the box office, but the Pentagon isn't happy about it. Last year, the film's producers requested 11pproval to use a U.S. submarine in one sequence, but permission was . denied. The portrayal of an officer who was also a heroin addict was alittle too much for the Pentagon's image specialists. -White House sources say that Secretary of State George Shulz has fallen behind in his maneuvering· to control America's foreign policy. National Security adviser William Clark now has the inside track. In the past, Schulz has threatened to resign if he wasn't in control, but he has now decided to stay on at least until next year's election. Dutch Hollow Pub Saturday, October 15th is the first Dutchman's Night at the Put) Reservations can be made at the Pi·zza Pub • AND so :r.'ve DE.C.ID~l> i.O RE.S\G-N MY po.s IT ION AS SE:.CRf:TARY Ot: THE.. CLAP! C.I..AP! C.LAP! Cl..A.fl! C.i..llP! VIE LL !!? IsN'T AP! .C. L.A.P! C.L..AP! C.C.AP! C1..4J'C! C.L A ANYONE GOING TO ! C.LAP! CLAP! C.t.AP' C.L.IJii( C.• \I'' Biology Club presents a A T Ill ?i) . . ... ..,.. · SAY NY HING ••••• ,t...AP~ C.I.APt C.L,.Io\·P! CLAP! C.L..AP~ C.LAP! C.LA .. P! CLAP!. C...L.AP! CLAP! ! C.l4P! C.LAP! CLAP! C.L..AP! ! C.. I.. AP ! C..t.. fH ! C..L A P ! CLA P~ 'c.L AP! I...A fl! CI.AP! >!<.LAPlc C..L A-P! c. LA fl L It P ! C.t- AP l r t C-l..A.P ' c ·~CLAP!L LAP! Clll .P! C.t-Af! CLAf>! C.L AP! (..LAp I p! C. I.. A p ! WHALE WATCH .. / out of Amesbury, MA Oct. 21 & 22, 1983 Includes: Bus travel Hotel Room ,Boat Ticket & Lunch 'Firat come, first serve' Contact: Stephen Sipperly Box 1836 or Prof. Butterstein Biology Dept.

Page8 CONCORDIENSIS. Octf)ber /3,1983 FEATURES Humor~ Baseball Improved By MATT NANKIN Senior Writer Once again it is October and time for another World Series. Unfortunately,, my enjoyment of this sport is less than it should be due to the changes which simply have not taken place. The sport we know today could be greatly improved if only a few ruies were put into effect. Therefore,. I propose the following seven changes to heighterwur enjoyment and the efficiency of the game of baseball: 1.) One of the most expensive costs for any team concerns equipment. Yet each game, hundreds of foul balls are hit into the stands. If only these balls couid be brought back, they could be used again and again. Therefore, I would like to see retired players be hired to go chasing after foul balls that have .gone into the stands. Should a fan refuse to yield .his baseball, then he will im- mediately be dragged away by stadium security and forced to announce campus movies. 2.) Another prohibitive major league cost consists of the numerous grouqdskeepers constantly employed to keep up the playtng field. There is no reason why the outfielders and infielders can't take care of this same surface between pitches. When one thinks of the in- credible cost to pay players who spend most of their time in the playing ~ield doing nothing, then a move like this makes a great deal of sense. 3,) One of the most boring moments in baseball is the intentional walk when a pitcher throws four balls far outside the strike zone to put a player on first base, thus creating a force situation. Yet this same end could be accomplished by only one pitch if the batter is hit by the ball. Just think of how much fun it would be to watch the hitter, knowing he is about to be the target of a 90 mph fastball, quiver and shake as the pitcher winds up for the throw!! 4.) The current 162-game season is a long drawn-out process resUlting in only one team in each division going to the playoffs-even if the second place team is only a gap1e behind. Wowdn•t it be much better for everyone if the top four teams of each division entered the post-season playoffs!? ! This would increase playoff and television revenue as well as adding to the en- joyment of baseball as not all teams remain in contention instead of the top two or three battling it out. , 5.) One of the most em- barrassing moments in sports is when the manager takes a long slow walk out to the mound to _[_I Features Writers Needed! Call6155 I I tell the pitcher that he's being taken out of the game. It would be much more efficient for him to take a big vaudevillian-style hook and rag him off the field or else simply jolt him with electric shocks whenever he gives upa run. When the pitcher in the latter case finally collapses, he may simply be carried off the field and a reliever brought on to replace him. 6.) Whenever I go to a baseball game one of the most bothersome occurrences is the vendors who shove popcorn, soda, ice cream, and beer in my face and ask me if I want to buy any of it. However, those :who really . need the refreshments are never offered them. I am referring, of course, to the players on the field. From now on I would regularly like to see the vendors in the stands go on to the playing field to ~ll their wares. 7.) Every baUpark provides bathrooms free of charge to thelr customers. Yet .simply the installation of pay toilets would send bathroom revenues threugh the roof-discounting the infamous \missed toilet factor.'' Of course, this would not apply to Yankee Stadium where most fans are still not.yet toilet trained. So remember, as you watch the World Series this year think about these proposed changes. Then instead of asking \Why not?\ ask \Why?\. The GOG- Support Group Although many studc;mts don't realize it, an organization of gay and other concerned st;Qdents exists right here at Union College. The Gay Discussion Group provldes an invaluable social and inf.ormational ser- vice for the student body, as well as support for gays on campus. Formed in 1981, the GOO holds meetings regularly with discusslons focused. on topics of interest to gays. The group also serves the college community with speakers, fihns, and literature donated to the library. \The aim of the group,'' stated the chairman, \is primarily to make Union a more .comfortable place for gay Htudents. We also try to help Gnion Students understand what it means to .be gay. Often ~ople stereotype gays and saY cruel things without rea1iziJ}g that gays are all around us. Comedians tell jokes about us and .fail to see us sitting in tbe audience. Family members create harmful .slurs about us and fail to see us in their own family. Mystery and mi!m· formation about the unknown breed fear. Fear breeds prejudice and cruelty. We try to dispelthe myths about gays and show .people that we are just like everyone el$e.\ The Gay Discussion Group welcomes all interested students to join. AU meetings are held off-campus and are completely confidential. For more information write to Box 2575. .... T ... • I t~ h c sl b OJ fi S4 L 8J b aJ sl f<J u c; tr la th se fo aJ cr be pr T( nu ell r- 1 I I I I I I I I I I I 1/, I I I ~~ I I I I

,.:. ' CONCORDIENSIS, October 13, 1913 THE ARTS Bi'lly Crystal On Stage BtTOD DIMMICK When Billy Ccystal walked on to the stage, it was hard to tell him apart· from someone in the crowd. Dressed in sneakers, slacks and a sweater, he could <have 'been a gtiy-trom DavidsQn on his way from the Skei.J.ar .. The firm few words, however, soon separated him from the crowd. Opening with a very affected Long Island accent, his greeting and his quick wit in turning back a few catcalls soon had the audience ready for a great show. Crystal bad a per- formance tailor-made for Union. He described his college career from using ven- triloquism with a fetal pig in the lab to the myriad of excuses for that late tenn paper. His ob- servations were close to home for the .students and were much appreciated by the enthusiastic crowd. \ Billy Crystal i~S interesting because he has different ap- proaches to each area he uses. To describe his family lfe used a number of different voices, expression~, and interesting bodily fUnctions. His caricatures of his family struck home to the audience, who loved it. He then drUted into the subject of pro sports, noting that The American Dream seemst() have changed from a teaching job (ha ha) to the lob of someone like Herschel Walker, who does pretty well at over a million dollars annually. While talldnR about basketball, Crystal sho1.Ved us how he in- vented the '~jivewalk'' due to a miscalculated swipe for the ba-U against someone who was twice as tall as .he was. Perhaps the most fun of the night was his jungle movie satire. With volunteers making enthusiastic birdcalls and' whistles, and a student on $tage making \walking noices~· by crunching potato chips over a microphone, he led us through a graphic and hysterical skit. To finiSh the evening, Crystal played a call,..in S'ex doctor, taking questions from the audience. The bizatre questions voiced by the students would tend to make one wonder about the preferences of the average Are You Psyched. To P_arty? Come to the -New-Wave Niglltll Psyche .yourself up for a GREAT movie; Urgh: A Music War, and then dancing to Protcfoto: a great new wave band straight from Alba11y •. . . Friday, Oct. 1-4 .. 8:30-1:30 Alumni Gym BE THERE! Tickets are $1.50, available in Carnegie qn10·12 - Discover ~he magic of good books THE OPEN DOOR 128-136 Joy Street Downtown Scheneaody 346-2719 Union Student! For an encore, Crystal explained ot us what is really behind· the advent of puberty. He told WI what we have long suspected, after puberty, there are really two minds giving @;'ections: one on our shoulders, the other below the belt! 'l'hroughout the performance, Billy Crystal never lost his cool. He spoke directly to the com- munity with topics very well understood by students. He managed to do all this Without descending into the extensive abuse of profanity that some comedians are known for. Memorial Chapel was as full as it coUld get on Friday night, and with good reason. Billy Crystal, with a large and growing reputation as a great comedian, was at his best. His methods were well used. His topics referred djrectly to areas imPQrtant to the students. His skits and his extensive use of willing crowd participation made him a hit. He may still give up his career for Shortstop on the Yankees, but I .suspect Uniqn would rather he didn't! Theatre Billy Crystal in Memorial Chapel, Friday night. Oct.12, 16, & 19-23-0nce in a Lifetime, Albany Civic Theatre, 8p.m., 462-1297 Oct.14-15, & 21-Ties, Capital District Psychiatric Center, 75 New Scotland Ave., Albany, 8 p.m., 465-4978 Oet.t4; 16, 11; 19-22-0ur Town, The Egg at Empire State Plaza, 473.-3750 Oct.l7-Mass Appeal, Proctor's Theatre, 8 p.m., 382-1083 Oct. 21-23, & 28-36-Who Said What to Who No.2, Schenectady Opera House, 8 p.m., except 10-23-2 p.m. 393-5732 Oct. 21& 22-Jerrv's<Girls, ProcJor's Theatre.10-21-8 p.m.10-22--2 p.m. & 8 p.m. 382-1083 fJfr~ .. Music Oct. 14-Albany Symphony Orchestra, Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, 8:30p.m. 465-4755 Oct. 15-Albany Symphony Orchestra, Albany Palace Theatre, 8:30p.m. 465-4755 Oct.1&, 23, 3D-Free ClassicalMusic Concerts,.Maison Le Chocolatier Rt. 9, Latham, 2 p.m. (Free) Oct. 15-Stan Getz Quartet, Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, 8 p.m. 273..(){)38 Oct.15-TomJuravich (Singer-Guitarist), 8thStep Coffee House, Albany, 8 p.m. 434-1703 Oct. 1&-Clearwater Sloop Singers, 8th Step Coffee House, Albany, 8 p.m. 434-1703 Oct. !&-Kathleen Battle (Soprano), Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, 8 p.m. 273-0038 Oct. 17 .. Ewan McColl, Peggy Seeger & Sons (Folksingers), St. Mark's Community Center- Guilderland Center, 8 p.m. 765-4193 Oct.19-Capitol Chamber Artists, Albany Institute of History & Art, 12:10 p.m. (Free) 463-4478 Oct. 19-Laurie Burns & Roger Rosen, 8th Step Coffee House, Albany, 8:45p.m. 434-1703 Oct. 20-Schenectady Symphony Orchestra, Proctor's Theatre, 8 p.m. 370-0047 Oct. 25-University Community Symphony Orchestra, 135 Western Ave. Page Hall Theatre, 8 p.m. (Free) r--~----------~-~~----------~-1 UNION STUDENlSI En loy Pizza and Games elf CHUCK E. CHEESE 1 S.I Present this coupon at the front register and rece·ive $2.00 OFF a large Pizza PLUSlOFree game tokens . Offer Ends llf 30 I 83 Good at Chuck E. Cheese Pizza Time Tileatre Crosstown Plaza Rt. 7 & Watt St. . Schenect11cly I f I I I p I I I I I I .,, I I I i I I I I I I Oct.13-Diva, Ballston Lake High School, 7 p.m. 399-9141 ~- Oct. 13-Stairway to Heaven, 8th Step Coffee House, Albany, 8 p.IIl. 439-1703 Oct • .14-Rembrandt Van Rign: Self Portrait, Albany Institute of History and Art, 12:10 p.m. 463- 4478 Oct. 17-The Garden of the Finzi-Continis, Siena College, 8 p.m. 783-2300 Oct. 20-Australia, 8th Step Coffee House,.B :45 p.m. 434-1703 Dance . , Oct. 21-The Restoration of the Night Watch, Albany Institute of History and Art, 12:10 p.m. 463- -447~' . ~- - . B. ' Oct.l4-Contradance, 275StateSt., Albany, 8:45 p,m\ 434-1703 • Oct.15-Country Dancing, First United Methodist Church, 8:30p.m. 765-4193 Oct. 22-Murray Lewis Dance Company, Woodstock Pla¥\hoi!Se 8:30p.m. (914) 679-2436 Tri-City Folkdancefs I The Tri-City Folkdancers will I be shifting its weekly dance 1 sessions back to Friday 1 beginning October 14 from 8:30 : to 11:00 p.m. at Union C<lllege, · 1 Schenectady. was obtained from the college to change. back to Fridays. Sessions are held in the second floor dance studio of Union's Arts Building and are ·open to newcomers interested in learning the folkdances of the Balkan countries, the Mid-East and other nations. part, is recorded, but im- promptu live music is played on native instruments oc- casionally. The Tri-City Folkdancers is a non-profit group which. requests a one-dollar contribution from each participant, except Union College students who are ad- mitted free. 1 The group, which had been 1 meeting every Friday for the 1 past twenty years and at Union 1 College since-1975, was asked by I the college late this summer to I switch to Sundays, which they I did. But S110days proved to be I . •'\\'\-l'mo 370-2693 I extremely difficult for most of l- \\\:' __ ..... _______ ..... _____________ ... ___ ! the fo~kdancers, and permission Most of the teaching is done during the first hour. Simple dances are den1onstrated, followed by requests.and dances requiring more complex footwork. Music, for the most Further information may be obtained by contacting Esta Blood, 1218 Regent Street, Schenectady.

... Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS. October /3, 1983 INTERNSHIPS Applications for the Dow Jones Newspaper Fund's 1984 Newspaper Editing Intern Program for College Juniors are available through Nov. 1. Deadline for completed ap- plications is Thanksgiving Day. The Editing Intern Program includes a $700 scholarship and' a two-week advanced editing seminar before the students begin their summer jobs · copyediting at newspapers and news services. Summer jobs copyediting at newspapers and news services are arranged ln advance by the Fund. · Furniture Store-Needs strong help delivering, window changing and so forth. Also someone who can drive a van. Full or part·time. RAS Fur- niture Interiors, 823 Eastern Ave. Phone 374-7785. SPEAKERS - / \The Mid-East and Oil'' will be the .subject that Mr. Michael D. Jooes, Director Centre for International Studies Henley- on~Thames, England will speak on. This will be held in Room 312,. Bailey Hall, Union College on October 13, 1983-3:45 P.M. PERSONALS are better off washing our clothes by hand!!!! How Ill&nY quarters have you. lost!!!?? D.M, and V.M.: Where' are you supposed to be Sunday at 10:15?? Women's Soccer '83 You've got to BELIEVE·! ! ! ! ! Remember: Peanuts and .Popcorn and Candy Apples II I Ill t ••••• Pseudo Jock...,fiSB _this evening? I anxiously await. ERICA MUST DI:E!!.! Love those new· Jane Fonda WASTE exercises! 1046 and 1()53.,-llove you guys VERY much. · To My Richmond Ael'\)bic Class {and friends), thank$ a million for making the class· so muc.ll:fun to teach. You guys are just the greatest. See you at 4:00 (.sharp?) Anyone want to jom me f<lr some Fruit Loops. before class ... ? Dear Mrs. Green Blob, Way to blow me off!!!!!!.! ·LQst.Always, TQe. Green Blob CRASH--Looks/like dinner on the bank to me. Two weeks and no wo1d from the bank. BOOTS K.W. Than:x for everything. Remember always-Me 2 Back!!' Love; Flinstone Congrats to the new Court Gestures: BUl, E~, Craig,· ·Tim, C..J;, Mary~ Steph, Olivia 8t Nina. Get psyched for a great year~ Sleepy, Pin~y, ~arthy, .Stinky, Messy and ~ueeky-.Jt .is great living With you au this year! Y'ou guys are the best! Spike To '!'racy Paige, ,Afe you. su,rprlseQ! Here's a long distance personal fro~Q me. See Y' ,S<>Qn. Love R. DlUSCOLI: Wante~: Female, g()od· looking, smart for serious relationship With C.J. Call AI)Phi for detailS. The Dow Jones Newspaper Fund also operates the Minority Editing Intern Program for College Seniors. cUsSIFIEDS. Lori, I really love walking you to class . . . thanks for the honors, NEW Rock··n-Roll Pizza P·ub 'Presents: Anyone wishing to complain about fire drills should contact Phil Ferron~ at 370-6791. Anyone interested in women's rugby please call Saran at 370.. 6864 A.S.A.P. Delta Ganuna's: I think we Sorority Rush October 23, 25, 26 Sign Up: Thursday, Oct. 13 11:00-1:30 Carnegie 5:00-7:00 West Dining Hall Friday~Oct.14 11:00-1:30 carnegie 11:00-1:30 WestDiningHall ANYONE INTERESTED IN GOING THROUGH RUSH MUST SIGN UP If you are unable to sign up but would like to go through rush~ call Amy at 381-1644 There will be a $1.00 sign up fee PIZZA,. ETC. Now Featuring: HOT SAUSAGE SUBS $2.00 Pizza Bagels 45~, 90·~- Hot Pretzel$. 40~ or 3 for $1.00 This Weeks Specials: l FREE TOPPING O'n any large or small Pizza WITH THIS AD· (One ad per Pizza) Sunday and Monday: With any order over $.1.00, receive a FREE PIZZA BAGEL <Not Good On Deliveries> Dinner Spe.cial: 25C: Medium Soda With any order I 5:00p.m. m 7:00 p.m. FRATERNITY ''RUSH WEEK'' ·' In case you didn't notice the great number of parties scheduled for this week. Union students should know tluit this is \Rush Week\ for all college fraternities. The concept of Rush Week is to fllDiiliarize all students, especially freshmen, with Greek life on campus. The parties will be held in close proximity to each other to enable students to ex, perien(!e each house. Kappa Sigma, Figi, ZBT, Phi Sig and Beta had sched~ed events for Tuesday, October 11. Below is a schedule of the remaining social rusli functions at each house. See you there! In fact, we'il even pay you more than $575 a month while you attend. That's in addition to paying for your full tuition and required books and fees. It's all part of the Armed FQrces Health Professions Scholarship Program. How does it work? If you're selected for a Physician Scholarship-from the Army, Navy, or Air Force-you're commissioned as an officer in the Reserve. While you're in school, you'll serve 45 days a year on active duty, gaining valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service seJected and years of scholarship assistance received. As an Armed Forces physician you'll receive officers pay and benefits, and enjoy the advantages of working regular hours. You'll also see a diversity of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology. But most important, while you'r.e in medical school we'll help pay the bills, For more information, send in the coupon. There's no obligation whatsoever. rve~m i~te~ei=Or~ma~bo~rtn~rc~lth,-+----i Professions Scholarship. I understand there is no obligation. soos I Mail this coupon to: . 1· Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box C1776, Huntington.Station, NY 11746 Check up to three: 0 ARMY 0 NAVY 0 AIR FORCE +--'---~ .I ::::se Print All Information Clearly and Completely: . 0 Male 0 Female 1-+----1 I Address-------------~--Apl. ----- 1-+--'---1 City Slate ~~-.,--~-Zip I I I I [ I . I Phone I I I II I I II I I I I Socc Sec. No.I l I [IJ I I I I I Area Code Number -+---1 I College I Date of Graduation [TI [IJ Field of Study -+---1 :Month Year he Information you voluntarily provide will be used fo. necruiting purposes o.nly. The more complete.ills. , .. ebetterwe can respond to your request. (Authority: 10, USC 503) . . : · .... ______ _ Thursday, October 13 Chi Psi Psi Upsilon Sigma Phi Kappa Alpha Alpha Delta Phi Saturday, October 15 Delta Chi Sigma Chi Delta Upsilon Friday. OctO!Jer 14 Phi Delta Theta Th!,!ta Delta Chi Delta Phi THE FILM COMMinEE PRESENTS: From a place .you never heard of • •• a story you'll never forget. \Weir's film Is .deeply felt and visually beautHul.\ -Newsweek 11 p.m. 55016$1.00 - Co: · outt1 Jim: who bono H Uni< finishE 30} las in ove. meet, (33-22) \very every< to po ticula perf or O'Don second 5.1 mil and co and dil Sp By · andt After both S: Union' bounce game North, Uniol with a WilliaJ played and of they w with a did not against injury: match, to set c matcht Helen I job cor

CONCORDJENSIS, OctoiJer 13, 1983 Pagell I At'hl~te- Of the Week By DREWS. HURLEY . Sports Staff . Congratulations this week go · out t(,) yotmg Dutc)unen booters, Jlm Monks and Guy ClavelotU, who gain athlete Qf the week honors. Freshman .forward Jim Monks currently leads the team -With four goals and is .second on the team in scQri,ng. Monks has scored against sixth ranked St. Lawrence, scored on a penalty kick in a 2-2 game against Army, on a breakaway situation against Hamilton, anc;l again in a 2-2 tie with Binghamton, a game Magee felt his team should have won. tended Staples, where he was the MVP of a team that won the New York State Tourney in their division. Monks, · Clavelaux and the rest of the Dutchmen boaters will be back in action Saturday at RPI. Jim. Monks Guy ClavelatUE:, a freshman fullback, has ~merged as . a team leader on def~nse and has given a lot of support to junior goalkeeper Mike Harris. \The defense has been excellent,\ commented Magee, \Guy has done an outstanding job for ~· H~ has already earned the respect of all his teammates. He is the type of player that con- trols the game with his skills and huStle.'' _The 5'7 1 ', 14~ lb. Monks is ~ from Hyde Park, New York >- where he was All-County for .o three years at F.D.R. High ~ School. Claveloux stands at 'E. 5'11\ 160 lbs. and is from Green· Farms, Connecticutt. He at• Guy Claveloux Harriers Split ByDIV Sports staff Union's men's. cross-coUntry finished ahead of Colgate (26- 30} last Saturday for its first win in over two years. In the same meet, Union lost to Hamilton (33-22). Coach Russ Ebbets was \very pleased because everyone ran at least according to potential; he was par- ticularly pleased with the performances of Chris O'Donnell and Neal Ricks, second and third for Union. The 5.1 mile course was at Halni.lton and contained one notably•long and difficult hill at the 2lf4·mile mark. Scorers against Colgate were Blll McRoberts (second in a time of 26 :40), Chris O'Donnell (third; 26:46), Neal Ricks (sixth; 27:11), Ro~rt Stenard (seventh; 27:33), and Marc Craw (eighth; 27:34). Also notable was Tim Orcutt's time of 27:41, placing him tenth in the race. The Harriers are looking to RPI for· their next race on Saturday. Dave Marin expressed the team's ex-. citement saying, \It's great to have friends come to support you. I know this helped Bob's race. It also feels good to win for a change; you know we'll be doing it up tonight.\ Spikers ·Bounce Back :By MARK O'DONNELL · and CHRIS DEL SIGNORE Sports Staff After disappointing J Jsses to both Siena and New England, Union's volleyball team bounced back to wii1 e eir first game of the season against North Adams. Union began this t.fi·match with a grueling game against Williams. The young team played . well both defensively and offensively, unfortunately they were . unable to C( me up with a win. This loss, hCJwever, did not affect their performance against North Adams. Due to an injury sustained in the VasS&r match, Cheri Wong was unable to set during the North Adams matches. However, rookie Helen Challis did an excellent job considering that she had - 1\. Iearr~d the position only a few day .s before the game. In ad- dhion, Sarah Levin and Janet Keyes turned in stellar per- formances. Both played solidly in Union's stoic defense. This game was an impressive first win, with Union holding North Adam§! to 4 points in 2 games ( 15-4)~ (liH)). The team is still very much in the embryonic stage, · with players still ha-wtg to adapt their game due to abrupt position changes.. The ver- satility that many of the players have shown in unfamiliar roles is definitely encourageing. for the future. '!he Union Volleyball te~ will travel to LeMoyne College; · Thursday, October 13, to play against LeMoyne and Rochester. I Come to Delta Upsilon's .69th Annual ''FAll'' 'PARTY Sat., October 15th 10:30 p.m. .Rock with Head ley Lamar BEER-WINE--SODA Soccer ••• Contin._ed from page l2 back on defense. Freshman forward Steve Hartman was frustrated time and again as he unleas.ed three powerful shots on goal only to have the Danes goalie come up with excellent saves. The. Dutchmen returned home to Garis Field on Monday to play the 9 and 2 King's Point Mariners. King's Point was ranked fifth in the state before the contest with Union, howev~r that ranking will undoubtedly slip as the Dutchmen recorded their second straight shutout, defeating the Mariners 2-0. Once again the Union defense shut off 'any consistent threat from the opposition. Keeper Mike Harris needed to make only two saves in chalking up his second shutout of the season. In a change from some earlier games where many op- portunities were squandered in the first half, Union got on the board quickly. Dave Philbrick blasted a free kick from near midfield that headed towards the left side of the Mariner's goal. Freshmen speedster Jimmy Monks acrobatically outleaped a startled King's Point defender and headed the ball behmd the Mariner goalie. / In the second half, with a one man advantage due to the ejection of a Mariner player, the Dutchmen increased the pressure but were foiled repeatedly. Tough-luck forward Steve Hartman slammed two twenty foot, blasts off the posts and the Mariner goalie came up big when he had to give his squad a chance going into the finill minutes. Finally with less than a minute to play, H!111man put the gan;1e out of reach with a point blank shot that eluded .the enemy goaltender. With the 1 two shut-outs, along with butstanding performances against highly ranked op- ponents B~ghamton, Division I .Anny, and St. Lawrence, the Dutchmen are virtually assured of a high ranking in next weeks NY State college soccer poll. Barring some unseen collapse, the Dutchmen seem destined for post-season play for the first time since 1980. SPORT Sports Talk With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff It's that time of the year again when sportswriters come out With their yearly predictions on the outcome of the October 'Classic,. the World Series. Each October the match-ups are looked at and writerS look for new angles to converse about. A year ago I tlllked about the match up of less fi.lling and great taste with the Brewers and the Cardinals. With this years pairing it looks to be the youth of the Baltimore Orioles stepping on to the field against the· elder statesmen of Philadelphia. Let's first take a look at the old boys of the block, the Phillies. In a fitting warm 'up to . the World Series the Phillies knocked out the youthful Dodgers in only four games. The PhiUies are a neat collecUon of older. players picked up by GM Paul Owens over the _last few years. Other NL teams felt that the Joe Morgan's, Pete Rose's and Tony Perez's were too old to ever help a team pick up another CI~own. Many of the Phils vets fashion world champion rings won in their more youthful days of service. Though many of Philadelphia's vets can't boast impressive stats they have become one of the big intangibles that never show up on a stat sheet. Joe Morgan described the im- portance of experience best when he explained that inex- perienced players when under pressure will often try· to do more than they're capable of doing. Conversely, Morgan feels that the experienced Phillies will be at an advantage against the young Orioles because when they are put un'der pressure during the series they will stay within their lb!llts. , Second year manager Joe Altobelli ·win be the first to admit that his team is young, but he will also admit that youth has brought the Orioles alJ the way to the World Series so why should it stop at the bands of the older Phillies. Much like the Phillies, the O's moved thru their ch~Wtpionship series with little trouble kn()(Jking out the upstart White So.x in four games. Even though Altobelli's line up may be young they are also very dynamic. Second year shortstop Cal Riplten started every game this past season for the Orioles while k:eeping his batting average well above the .300 mark. Once the best of the youngest prospects in the league, Eddie Murray has blossomed into one of the league's .few premier first baseman and comments that this Baltimore squad filled with youngsters never tries to do more than they know they're capable of. Uke most any World Series, this year's fall · classic will be decided on the mound. Philadelphia enjoyed a banner pitching year in '83 with the likes of 19 game winner and Cy · Young candidate Jolm Denny leading the way. Cbse behind Denny was Veter8Jl and future Hall of Farner Steve Carlton who put 16 wins JlP ()n the board for the PhiUys. Both tile aces in the Phillies staff are proven vet.erans that will be facing a young Baltimore staff that's red hot. Both rookie and cham- pionship series MVP 'Mike Boddicke and baseball's yotmgest pitcher Stol\lll Davis, lead the way for the Orioles. With the likes (){ Scott MaGregor and Jim Palmer to backup these yomgsters with World Series exper.ience, the Orioles look to be a g()od bet to be tough throughout tile entire series; One just has to think that the good mix of expetience in the field, at the· plate &td on the mound for the Pllillies will nullify the young line up tbat will be taken out to hone plate by Altobelli. Lady_ Booters Falter CPS IS Sports Staff Last week the lady Dutchmen dropped two tough decisions at the hands of Siena and Hamilton, respectively. Despite being winless for the week, there is still cause for optimism as the Lady Booters are quickly gaining the respect of their fQes. Last year, Hamilton dropped the Dutchwomen !)..() as Union was clearly outclassed. On Saturday, the 8th, the Con- tinentals of Hamilton edged a pesky Union squad 2..0. Monica Lobel, Union's keeper for most of tl).e game, turned in a stellar performance recording nearly twenty saves. In Union's other clash last week, the Lady Booters fell to Siena, 2-1. Siena was out to avenge an earlier 2-1 overtime loss at the hands of the Dut- chwomen. The lone Union tally- was scored by Lisa Rathbun, it was her third goal of the season. In Rathbun, coach Marty Morrison seems to have found a reliable goal scorerwh()se skills give her an edge over other players. This week the Lady Hooters travel to Williams and Skid~ more as well as host .perennial powerhouse Colgate. Women's X-Country By DIU Sports Staff The women's cross cotmtry team lost to Williams, 36-22 on Friday at Union's 2.84 mile Central Park women's course. Ainy Walsh placed second with a time of 16:52 (she's only a freshman). Jenny Snover improved her time by a minute, coming in with a 4th plaee time of 18:09. The other runners were Karen Stash (8th; 19:06), Judy Steinhart (1Oth; 19: 17), Marianne 1Dadik (13th; 21 :01), and Gigi Giordano (14th; 22:12) all of whom displayed \in· dividual improvemerlt\ ac· cording to Coach Russ Ebbets. When asked for a c()mment Ebbets stated: \Unfortllllately the team is lacking in nlllilbers but everyone ran well. Amy Walsh was very competitive the whole race.\ The worne11 go on to race against RPI next Saturday. Inge Stocknum did not race because of last week's injury.

i. Cl L .8 c cu \' 0 ~ .~ c c 0 co >- .0 0 +· 0 .c: 0. Page 12 CONCORDI~NSIS. October /3, 1983 ... 49 .. 0 Garnet Wave Crushes Colby By LOU GEORGE Sports Staff For the past three seasons a superior Dutchmen team squeaked out victories over Colby. This year the Union followers thought they were about to see a repeat of the last two seasons.; an unemotional Dutclunen team going throUgh the motions with a fired~up but less talented Colby squad. This was the case for the entire first half, less tlte last five minutes. For the first quarter and a through third teams. . The first Union score which put the Dutchmen on the right track, was led by Johnnie Johnson,. who compUed thirty of tbe sixty yards on his own. The toucl;ldown came on a patfened Stewart to Kraft completion. Dan Stewart increa,sed his consecutive game touchdown passes to fourteen and Frank Kraft stretched his streak to four consecutive touchdown catches. After the defense held the White Mules on their next Junior running back John Johnson (5) follows the blocking of ful.lback Steve Olsen (34). Johnson scored twice in Union's 49-0 victory. half the Garnet totally · dominated play, but everytime they were in position to score the offense broke down. The Dutchmen's first two possessions- ended in punts by Mark McKelvey, who had his finest performance in his Union College career. Colby's third possession started on their own one yardline and ended at the Colby twenty-six with a fumbled handoff. Union's fourth han- dling of the football ended at the one yardline on an unsuccessful sneak by signal caller Dan Stewart. Each time Stewart and company touched the ball they were frustrated by a fumble or a penalty. Once the Dutclunen awoke from this unemotional state, the roof cav.ed in on the White Mules. In a little more than one half of football the avalanching Garnet offense put more points on the board than their defense has allowed in the last two' seasons. The offense scored at will in the second half using weapons from the first possession, the offensive machine travelled eighty ya~ in seven plays. This score came on a fullbaclc dive that George Capozzi turned into a forty-four yard touchdown jaunt. Johnnie Johnson tallied his second touchdown of the game on a fourteen yard carry that ended a seventy-five yard drive. Johnson was not finished after that touchdowa. Sophomore Anthony Valente recovered a fumble at the Colby nine yard line and again Johnson scored. Bob Bertagna came up with an interception at his own tllinY- four yardline and two plays later Bill Huttner cashed in on the interception with a sixty-six yard touchdown rWl. These three touchdowns came in span of three minutes; all of a sudden an upset worried crowd was leaving the stands in celebration. Union's sixth touchdown came on a Roger Harris option run of two yards. The seventh, and final. touchdown was a pass Tennis at .500 By J.B. doubles teams are extremely Sports Staff strong and play an aggressive net game. They enjoyed vic- The ball was certainly in the tories against Middlebury, Dutchwomen's court as the Oneonta, and R.P.I. Women's Tennis Team defeated Unfortunately, the team lost two rivals: Oneonta St. and matches to R.P.I. and Middlebury last week. Both on homecoming wins were very important Against R.P.I. many ·Union because it helped went to three sets, but overall record for the in losses. The team The Dutchwomen once for a win were determined for 1,ecom1ng weekend but were First singles player, again. However, First Miller won both her Julie Miller and fourth against Middlebury (6-1, · Meredith McCarty and Oneonta (6-2, 7-U). high concentration defeating her opponent from ·natural ability to overcome Oneonta in a tiebreaker, was 5th opponents. singles, Robin Leiclunan (6-4 7- lot of credit is due to 6th 6). She kept .. u~P/J.~~~~~,,~~ player Car<ll Verden for pressure and jill! effort in the fidently. Another Since not all the was played by 2nd plays have 6th Slavkin {2-6, 6-1, singles, Carol has not been able strokes were strong and con- to play as much as she would sistent. Both the first doubles like. But, her previous ex- team of Linda· Espisito and perience on the team and her Lorna Rushworth and the determination make her a · second doubles team of Gail player to watch in the future. Tankel and Peggy Belanoff The Dutchwomen face Siena at were unmatched. Their records home this Saturday at 11:00. so far are flawless. Both from fres~an quarterback Joe Duffy to freshman receiver E;arl Ball. The Gamet offense eompiled 505 yards of total offense, with running backs John J1)hnson and BID Huttner both gaining over 100 yards. Defensively, the Dutchmen continue to play solid team defense. In each game this season the defense has held their opJ)onents in check until their offensive teammates could.take control. This Saturday the gridders travel to nearby Troy, N.Y. to face RPI in the 8lst renewal of NewYorkState'soldest football rivalry. Union leads the series with RPI 61-15-4. The Dutchmen will alSo try·t-o- improve on their national ranking (loth). Last weekend eight of the Iilne teams ahead of the Gamet won, the only team to lose was No. three ranked Wisconsin~LaCrosse (41· 0). Although the RPI rivalry is very intense,. the Dutchmen should control the game as they did against ·Colby. If mental mistakes don't hinder their progress the offense may surpass their forty·nine p()int season high. As for the defense; it will continue to swarm the ball and .stymie opponents. \tore bY pt>rlod$ -:oUt\' • o • o- o UniOn 0 ·14 21 lif-49 U - t<.rell. 2,'pal\ from Stewart {Sfi(:ka. ' kic'~' U - CaPOUI, u. run !Stirta, klci(J u - Jonnaon, l4, run (5to~ka, krck)- U - Johnson, 3. wn !Sticka. klcl<) U - H~ttner, i>l>< run !Sticka. koek) U -Harm.,<. run (Norlin, kick) U - 8~11, i, P&•l I rom IJuffy (Marton. kick) STA'!'ISTICS Firsr do,wn~ Ru•he••yllfd5 Pa•~•ng yards Pauef Returns yards Punts av11r~~e F uml)les lost Penalties-yards Colby 6 ~-fl6 62 6•1S..? :w ·a-41.~ 2 B3 NCAA D1VISIONIII FOOTBALL POLL LAugustaila (ILL) 2. Carnegie Mellon (PAl 3. Hofstra (NY) 4. Wartburg (iowa)· 5. Salisbury St. <MD) 6. Mt. Union (OH) 7. St. John's <NY) Union 11 53·374 131 13·1f.:O 10 7-41.6 1 l6-U5 4·0 5·0 5·o 5·0 5·0 5·0 5·() Junior· tight end Frank Kraft sets out on .a P<JSS pattern v~rsus Colby .. Kraft caught a touchdown P<JSS for the fourth consec:;·u.t.i:ve week. V. Football J.V. Football Men's Soccer J.V. Soccer X-Country Volleyball Field Hockey W. Socct:!r Tennis SPORTS HAPPENINGS October l3·20' Oct. 15atRPI Oct. 19 RPI Oct.15.at RPI Oct. 19 Colgate Oct. i4at RPI Oct. 20Williams Oct. 15 at RPI Oct. 13 at L.eMoyne Rochester Oct. 19 Siena Oct. 15 Siena Oct.17Hartwick · Oct. 15 at Skidmore OCt. 17-RPI Oct. 19 at S. Vermont Oct. 15 Siena Oct. 17 Hartwick 1:30 3130 11:,00 3:00 . 7:00 3:00 12:00 6:00 7:00 11.:00 3:30 f:oo 7:00 3:30 Oct. 16 at RPI .1----------SCOREBOARD--------'i 11:00 3:30 1:00 Rugby Union 49- Siena 2 Hamilton 2 Union 3 Union 2 Oneonta 2 Union 6 RPI 5 West Point 6 FOOTBALL (4·0) WOMEN'S SOCCER {1-2) . MEN'S SOCCER (4-1-2) FIELD HOCKEY (1·6) TE;NNI'S (3·5) VOLLEYBALL (1·4) Colbyo Union 1 Uniono Albany St. 0 Kings Pointo uniono Oneonta 1 Union 2 Union 1 Union ( 15-4, 15·0) · , Nortti Adams MEN'S X·COUNTRY0·2) U nlon 26 Colgc;~te 30 Hamilton 22 Union 33 a. WJsconsin·LaCrosse 9 .. Case Western !OHJ 10. Union (NY) 5·1 - RUGBY (1-1) 5·1) 4·1). Unionl7 . Albany Old Green 7 .. . looking for a NY ranking ·Soccer Wins Two By SAM GIFFORD and PETE STEGEMANN Sports Staff · Last Wednesday, the Dut- chmen downed the Great Danes _of Albany State 3.0. Union displayed great determination and poise in the victory. Their stingy defense held Albany to only one shot on Mike Harris While the offense managed to pepper the Danes goalie with twenty shots. \I felt we owned most of the field,\ stated Coach Magee·; \We knew we had to beat them to the ball and we didn't give Albany much chance to show its skill.\ The entire Union squad had to be com- plimented on their victory~ By the end of the first half, Union had posted a 2-0 lead. Dave Sheridan put the Dut· chmen on the board first as he delivered a rebound shot from Larry Anastasi. With less than five minutes left in the half, freshman Doug Wilk scored his first goal on a deflection from Bernie Zeifang's indirect kick. Peter Stegemann wrapped Up the scoring with ten minutes left in regulation as he redirected a cross from Tom Cutter. Dave Philbrick, Guy· Claveloux, Grant Foreman, Frank Volino, and Dirk Peterson all enjoyed out- standing game.s on defense. Howard Fiedler, Bobby Crandall, and Kevin Bolm came off the bench and exhibited great talent, especially in distributing the ball and helping Continued on page 11 Freshman fuilback Bob crandall battle$ an .opponent. The menis soccer team is currently 4·1·2. · - C) c; .... cu J:l. 1:: - cu Ill' ·o ·0:: cu ·c: c 0 co >- .:C 0 ,.... 0 .c 0.

r::: 10 E G) .0 <t .~ ::1 ' >- .0 .e 0 ..r::: 0. 1877 CXUl, No.6' October 20, 1983 ISC Eyes Parity Bill DaVe Warager, Steve Benson, Win Th.urlow,.Steve Fuller and Jeff' Serafini of the 1 ndepeendent Student,Coal ition. Winter .in 8arba·dos • • . By JULIEABELMAN Edi.tor-JnoChlef On saturday, ~ober 15, the Independent Student Coalition (ISC) met at.Albany Law School to discuss its goala for this year, top priority being the TAP Parity lijll. Present at the meeting were Jeffrey A. Serafini--executive director, Steve Fuller-chairman, Dave Warager-·treasurer, Steve Benson-chairman of the State Legislative Committee (and a junior at Union COllege), along with representatives from several independent colleges and universities in New York State. The Independent Student Coalition was incorporated in 1976 as a non-profit,. nonpartisan organization representing the higher education public policy interests of the more than 300,000 students enrolled at New York's independent colleges and universities. Basically, the mission of the ISC is \to ad- voc~te public policies that ensure academic quality and remove barriers to citizen acce5s and collegiate choice.\ Specifically, th.e ISC is em· powered by its member-campus student organizations \to protect crucialstudent financial aid programs which may be threatened with dismantlement and possible extinction; repair . programs which no longer meet . · h . ·1· originally intended objectives; ·N· e· . ... w . .. · An· ·t· r· ·O· . po. ··o· .. g· y ~~chp~~~~orSU~~~eri':~ci~~ · · . . . · · socm-econonnc backgrounds · · the opportunity to choose the Semester Abroad- institutions that best suit their needs, abilities and aspirations.\ The ISC's main concern this Year is to ensure the enactment oftheTAP Parity Bill. The TAP Parity Bill is · a necessary initiative for New York's student financial aid programs because the original TAP is no longer doing the job it was originally intended tp do. By GAYLE ROsENFlELD ·News Editer How about spending winter in Barbados for course credit? No, this is not a December break vacation of sunbathing on .sandy beaches. This program is an addition to the many other tem1s abroad available here at Union. However, this unique program cannot be classified in the same group with terms in England, Spain or even France. The Barbados semester stresses individual study of local culture, which students do under the supervision of an- thropology professors. George and Sharon Gmelch. While the program includes instruction in Cactbooan culture and hiStory, the emphasis is on student research. Each student must design and carry out a field project of his or her own. Instruction is given in various social science techniques for gathering data. According to S. Gmelch, \just as laboratory experience is essential in the natural sciences, so should fieldwork be in the social sciences. It is important that students not only learn the knowledge of their discipline but how to practice it. How to do sociology or anthropology.\ \But equally important,\ adds G. Gmelch, \is that students have an opportunity to ex:perience life in another culture. And to do it in as in· timate a way as possible.\ By participating in village BarN badian daily life students begin to understand the rules and patterns of behavior of another culture. One of the challenges of teaching undergraduates in the 1980' is the need to heighten their awareness of their own biases, in anthropological terms-to make them aware of their ethnocentrism. \We need to help them understand that our society's ways of doing things are best described as 'habitual' not 'natural'•·that ours is a way of life and not the way of life.\ As anthropologists, the Gmelcbes believe there is no better way to help students acquire this perspective than to place them individually in another culture with the task of deciphering or making sense out of the behavior of the people around them. Fieldwork, S. Gmelch explains, \is not just a peculiar methodology used by anthropologists but a way of thinking about ourselves and om fellQw human beings.\ The Barbados program starts , with a week of classes and seminars at McGill University's oceanographic research in· stitute in Barbados. After this initial ·week, students will be placed with Barbadian families in villages along Barbados' west em seaboard. Each student will work individually in a village. Also, ·each student will. write up field notes daily and be visited once each week in their villages by the . professor. Students will also carry out a series of field exercises, such as collecting a family genealogy, which are designed to teach different techniques for gathering data. Each Friday, the entire group will convene at the research institute for a seminar and review of their field research. Both Gmelches spent last winter term in Barbados with one Vassar student and two Union students, Polly Wheeler and Irish Cohen, who were working on their senior theses. Vassar has an ahthropology field program in which students do fieldwork by themselves for six months of their junior year. One final consideration is why Barbados. G. Gmelch, who previous to coming to Union, directed several field programs Stud~nts. interested in the _ . prugram · should . contact Professors George and Sharon Gmelch, Department of Sociology. Tbe·prograni will run from January i> to March 13, and is offered to ~udents who have taken Anthropology 10 or 11 or Sociology 10. Applicants will be interviewed and although social science majors will be given priority, all students are encouraged to apply. The three courses taught during the ten weeks will be Anthropology 63, Field Methods in Anthropology; Anthropology 100, Peoples and Cultures of the Caribbean; and Sociology 190, Independent Study. These classes fulfill the usual term requirement at Union of three course credits. The program will cost the usual term abroad fee of $3,500 (covering tuition and room and board · in Bar- bados), plus approximately $500 round-trip air fare~ in Ireland explains, \It offers a c: safe, hospitable environment to 'Qi break-in student researchers. ~ , Being English speaking there is '5 no language barrier, and while ~ The original objective of New York State's Tuition Assistance Program (TAP), when it was enacted in 197 4, was to ensure that students were financially able to attend the colleges and universities of their choice. In fact, New Yorlt State's official policy, adopted by the Regents and approved by the Governor, is that family economic cir- cumstances should not be a barrier for New York high school graduates who want to attend the college of their choice. However, inflation has caused an enormous erosion of TAP's value, depriving thousands of New Yorkers of fair college opportunity. the culture is very different >. . from our own, making it a more ~ , interesting place for students to o ~ . . . . , work than, say, Britain or a , , . \ Ireland, it iB friendly. And the climate doesn't hurt.\ Un.ion student$ en joying unseasonably warm fall weather. When New York adopted the Tuition Assistance Program in 1974, the maximum TAP award was $150()...6() percent of the weighted average tuition then charged at New York's in- dependent colleges and universities. Today, the maximum TAP award is $2200. However, this covers only 37 percent of this year's average tuition. In 1974, students whose net taxable family incomes were $20,000 or less received TAP. Today the TAP income ·· eligibility ceiling is $25,000. But inflation has cut the dollar's value by more than half since 1974. An income of $20.000 then would be equal to over $40,000 in today's earnings. A move to restore TAP's value is now underway in Albany. The Sated Senate ap- proved a TAP Parity Bill earlier this year with strong bipartisan support. If it passes the Assembly and is signed by Governor Cuomo, most un- dergraduates now eligible for TAP will receive an additional $500 to $2700 in state tuition aid. Plus, m~ny students not presently eligible will be able to get TAP grants. Unless TAP is repaired to make New York~s independent colleges and universities more affordable, enrolbnent slni.nkage _will force many of these campuses to either close or drastically cut academic programs. When state · aid is not suf· ficient to help cover tile full cost of education, the independent institutions are forced to sub- sidize the costs. This results in tuition hikes, which in turn, prevents students from lower and middle income families from attending private colleges. At public universities, sub- sidies are much higher because students normally pay only $1500 to $2000 a year, yet the cost of their education is about the same as at private CDlleges. However, the subsidies for public higher education are paid by United States tax- payers. The point is not that tuition should be increased in public universities, but students from low income f&nili.es should be able to attend private eoUeges if they desire to do so. Statistics show that students at the average private college are not wealthier than those at public schools. Only 53 percent of the students at SUNY have family incomes below $25,000 while 61 percent of private college students have family incomes below $25,000. Meanwhile, the State Assembly is telling in· dependent colleges that they don't rieed a TAP Parity bUl. Failure to overcome in· nation's erosion of TAP means New York independent cam- puses will be far less affordable for moderate and low income students. Because there is a correlation between income and race, action on TAP Padty by the Assembly and the governor becomes essential to avoid losing the substatial progress made toward volmt· tary integration of New York's higher education system. (Informati()n obtained through the ISC.)

E \i:j (lJ L. (lJ :lo! .!::! -' >- .0 0 .... 0 .c: Q. Pagel CONCORDIENSIS, October 20, 1983 Gado Heads Union Press Prof. Frank Gado, editor of Union Press Frank Gado has recently asswned the .post of Editor Of the Union College Press. While remaining a member of the Department of English, which he Joined in 1963, he will oversee the develo1111ent of a new phase in the operation of the Press. Established in 1972, the Union College Press has preViously concentrated on issuing books closely tied to the college by virtue of the sutdect matter or the authors' affiliation~ Among its more' successful publications have been First Person·, a · collection of discussions with leading American writers held at Union that was edited by Gado, and Alexander McDougall and the American Revolution In New York, by Rober Champagne, which was issued in cooperation with the Profes,sor Maleki Returns By LINDA RA.FFAELE Staff The physics departlllent is happy to welcome back to Union visiting assistant Professor Seyfollah Maleki. Maleki previously taught here in 1981· 82 as a graduate assistant while attending graduate school at RPI in Troy. While lte does not feel that .much has cllanged on .~ campus since he last taught ~ here, Maleki says \as a visiting ~ professor now I feel more in· ·~ volved in the school!' n. ' talks are very infonnal with much room for discussion. Everyone is invited to bring a lunch and join in. As overseer of the ptogram, Maleki is trying to expand the program to have professors and students fr{)Ill meet people from other departments.\ Maleki would like to s~e more intermingling between the various disciplines. Originally from Iran, Mal•i came to the United States thirteen years ago. He graduated from the University of New Orleans with a degree In Physics and went on to get his MS and PhD at RPI. He served as a graduate assistant at both the University of New Orleans and RPI in addition to Union. At RPI, he received the Physics · Teaching Award, an annual award given to teaching assistants, and the Hillard B. This term Malelci is teaching ~ Physics 11. In additi0-11, he is in ~ charge of SALT·..Scientific .g_ American LuncJ:te()n Talks. \ H11ntington Award, for his '' graduate research work. Seyfo!lah Naleki has also published a SALT takes place every Physics Professor ThW'Sday aftefnoonat 12:40 pm Maleki in room 303 of the Science and other departments participate, Engineering Building. Mem· · too. He feels that \because of bers of the science department trimesters, everyone is so biiSy give talks on articles they have in their own department tllat read iQ scientific jounals. The they do not get the chance to number of articles in journals such as Physics ~tter A, Nuelear Physics A, Physics Review, Bulletin of the American Physics Society, and Physics Teacher. The Political and Speakers Forums The Political Science and Sociology Departments and The Minerva Fund present RAMSEY CLAR'K . Author, Lawyer7 Former Attorney General Speaking on Civil L:iberties vs. The Reagan Administration October 25 Union College 8:00p.m. ihe Memorial Chapel at Union College The Public Is Invited Free of Charge FAILURE TO COMMUNICATE? NOT IF WE CAN HELP IT ! ! The 485tb EMIIINEERING AND INSTALLATION GROUP Griftiss Air Force Base, New York Engineer~i State·of· the·arl communic;riions a~d electronic systems throughout the world ..Securitr Systems ·Nav Aids -Air Traffic Control ·Telephone -Dala Systems ·Public Address -Radio ·Fiber 0 ptics ·:!ial.eJIHe ·Radar ·lY ·Troposheric Scatter ·tomputer ·Electronic Security RECRUilERS will be on campus 3 Nov. 1983 interviewing for civilian opportunities as E(E~TRONIC ENGINEERS. New York State .American Revolut.ion 'Bicentennial CommiSsion, In announcing th.e ap· pointment, Jack L. Maranville, . Director of the Union· COD~ge· Press, stressed that ''altb<lugh our concern with Union-related books will <:ontinue., we are relying upon Gado's critical judgment and diverse .scholarly interests ln our effort to broaden the scope of the Press. \Like other university presses, we are ,eo«Unitted to producing books addressed to the professional academic community, and toyvard that end, we have scheduled several works for publication within the next coUple of years. Included among. these pr.ojeds are the translation of a seminal study of nineteenth-century French art, the sixteenth-century diary of ~ · Swedish sea captain who was one of the first Westerners to travel in Japan, a bib1iQgraphy of eighteenth-ceo tury short fiction in American magazines, and the complete stories of William Cullen Bryant. \A second objective of the Press will beto supply texts for college classes. Because of financial retrenchment, commercial publishers have shown increasing reluctance to issue texts in areas where low course enrollments severely limit potential sales. We believe . a~ademic presses will have to recognize a new obligation in serving the needs of higher education.\ Maranville stated that tbe timing of the announcement of Gado's appointment to coincide with the publication of Tile TeDer's Tales, his edition of Sherwood Anderson's stories, was meant to emphasize the Press' involvement in this new role. ''Anderson was a truly original, influential voice,'' Maranville noted, \yet his stories have been allowed to ,go out of print. In choosing a volume of his best stories to launch the Signature Series, our paperbound collections of repre~entative works by America's most respected contributors to the evolution of the short story, we hope to promote attention to a distinctly American literary art.'' Heartbsfde Tales, a seleCtion of Washington Irving's pioneer.irig short fiction, will be added to the series in August, and .a volume dev.oted to Henry James has been scheduled for publication 11t year's end .. In addition to editing First Person and the Teller's Tales, Gado has written on Amevican Literature and Film. He is presently preparing a study of Ingmar Bergman's films for Duke University Press. ACT Scores Drop (CPS )-students who took the American College Testing Program's ACT test last year managed to get record-low test scores, according to a just· released report. ACT averages returned to their lowest points ever-an average of 18.3 out of a possible 36-among students who took tbe college admissions test for tile 1982-83 school year. \Since the 1975-76 school year, test scores have really been on a· plateau,\ says Patricia Gartland, ACT assistant vice president. · \Scores went steadily down ' from 1969-70 to 1976-76, when they hit their lowest level ever at 18.3,\ she notes. . From their 196!J..70 high of 19.9, ACT average test scores have hovered between 18.3 and 18.6. ThiS year's SC()res dropped one-tenth of a point from the 18 .. 4 student average during the 1981ooo82 academic year. \No one is really sure why scores dropped in the early seventies, nor do we know why they stopped dropping and leveled off since 19'75,\ Gar- tland says. \Theories for Ute lower scores have pointed to everything from ineffective teaching in elementary and secondary schools to too much · TV viewing and . a decline in reaQ.ing,\ she adds~ / One study has correlated the general decline in standardized test scores to the period of above-ground nuclear weapons testing from the mid-1940s through the early sixties. Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) and other admissions test scores have declined and leveled off in roughly the same pattern as the ACT. . In specific subject areas, ACT scores dropped three-tenths of a point in math-from 17.2 to 16.9- and slid one-tenth of a point in English skills-from 17.9 to 17.8- since 1981-&. · Computer science continues to be the fastest-growing declared major. Only two percent of the students taking the test irr 1972 intended to major in computer science. Ten percent intend to this year. Engineering is the second· fastest growing major, rising from six percent in 1972·73to ten percent of this year's college freshmen. The most popular· major is .business-chosen by 18 percent of the students-followed by the health-related fields chosen by 16 percent of the test takers. Education has suffered the biggest drop In popularity in recent years. The number of students intending to go into the field has plummeted from 15 percent in 1972-73 to only six percent this year. Any studeot with information concerning the . vandalism and use of college facilities without proper authorization which occurred at the Union College cQmputer center at ap .. proximately. 3:30 a.m.,- Sat., Oct. 8 is requested to contact Chris Chadwick (Assistant Director of Security and safety) ·at 370-6178. Information can be. gh,en con- fidentially. News Writers Needed! Call6155 I \ f ' c ce1 du 'WE Ac (A ()c '1 prt em crl em thi sui aw thE thE rne 1 AA sta ·wu l()C re@ ca1 - c - c Tl Orcl p.m Unl1 feat violi tr1ll1 the Unic Tt cone Viv~ Bell I (Syr Sup] E:pi! Moz 136. 'l'i stud fr<ln Com the cone Tl Orel sem of se celli Sieh1 vi<Jli wbe1 and high Com 19'71. 1009 TI. the seril in. I play .tevi• and Si.JIC tem] WC!!l Tl: I I . I I ,

CONCQRDIENSJS, October 20, 1983· AAC Questions Course Card System BY JAN BAR.\N Staff Recent complaints con• cernlng. the card system used during:pre-registration at Union were · addressed at the ..Aeadernic Affairs Council (A.AC) meeting on Monday, OCtober 17, 1983. sbeets will also be a new ad· dition. A ranking of priorities Will be defined by the various academic departments so that the .students who choose to sign up for a list course will know exactly what priorities will be \card\ counJes. As usual these cards Will be available on a first'1:on;le, first..serve basts. On only one name on the sfgn•up list. These changes should elbninate some of.the confusion surro1,111ding \USt\ and \card\ courses. By estabUphing a written ,key of prionties for each course and by unifying the system as a whole, the AAC hopes to end some -of the complaints regarding the pr~ registration system. Academic Affairs Council meeting 'The main concern. was that :previously students tUd not have enoUgh infonnation about what criteria were· used for limited enrollment classes. To solve this probiem, the AAC has submitted a proposal which .ls awaiting the Student ForUIIl's, thee academic departments' and the Registrar's recom· rnendations. · the Friday of pr~registration week, the lists of admitted students for cretain comses along wit}l the waiting lists Will be posted in order to give wait· listed students the opportunity on Friday and Monday morning to arrange alternate .plans. The AAC also needs the cooperation from students to improve the system. One main problem with the list-system is that one person can sign himself and several friends .up at the same time. Consequently, the council Ul'ges that students sign Forum Activity The Idea sul;>mitted, by the AA.C proposes to adopt a standard sign-up sheet. These · will ·be available in posted l()cations on Wednesday of pl'e- reitistration week, the day of card distribution. On tbese By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Associate Features Editor The Student Forum held its most recent meeting this past Monday, October 17. Though CAMPUS NE.WS BRIEFS Cilamber Orchestra toPeiform· The Paillard Chamber Orchestra will perform at 8 p.m .. Thursday, Oct .. 27, at Union's Memorial Chapel, featuring Gerard Jarry on violrn and Guy Touvron on trumpet. The concert is part of the Schenectady· Museum- Uni()n Concert Series. Tlte.concert will include Violin concertos by Leclair and· Vivaldi, trwnpet concert~ by Bellini and Delalande 1 (Symphonies .for the King's Supper); Six Antique Epigraphs by Debussy; and Mozart's Divertimento in D, K. 136. Tickets are $8 ($4 for stt~dents), and are available from the Schenectady Museum, Conununity Box Offices, or at the door one hour before the concert begil1$ - Ttle Paillard Chamber OrchestFa is a permanent en· semble from France, composed of seven violins, two violas, two celli, double bass and harp- sichord, and is headed by violinist Jarry. Jarry was 13 when he won the Premier Prix and tlie · Prix d'Honneur, the highest degree..s awarded by the. Conservatoire de Paris since 19'71~ and joined the Paillard in 1969. Tlle ensemble is subsidized by the French government for a series of 30 concerts every year in France and abroad. They played a leading . role in . the .tevlval of the mus1c of the 17th and 18th centuries, and have since incorporated con· temporary music and major wollks of the 19th century. Tile recipients of 22 Grands Prix Internationaux, the en:- semble has made about. 250 recordings and performs more than 100 concerts each year. _Corporate Strategy Talk Joseph Hinchey, .senior vice president of Analog Devices, Inc., will discuss \The Problems of Implementing a Company's Strategic Plan\ at Union, ln~ah AdminiStrative and Engineering Systems, IAM, ColloqUiUm Thursday, Oct. 20. The talk will begin at 3:45 p.m. in Bailey Hall Room 312 and is open to the public, , free of charge. At Analog Devices, Inc., Hinchey has responsibility as chief financial officer and administrative functions in legal and patent areas. He holds a law degree from Boston College and a bachelor's degree from Union in electrical engineering .. He formerly served as group vice president of Texas Instruments. Hinchey will discuss· the execution of a corporate ·strategiC plan or what comes after the strategy is conceived and articulated. Included will be the nature and importance of tactical programs, resource allocations, priorities, balan- cing between short-term ear- nings, financial viability and long-term investment, when to update and fin~tune the plan, sharing re~ources, and external communication of the plan. AlumniCluh . keception at the home of President and Mrs. John S. Morris on the Union Campus. The reception will begin at 5:30 p.m. At 6:30-p.m. there will be an address by Professor Jan Ludwig, chairman of the college Conser-vatorial Com- mittee, who will discuss \Nott's Stove, Smith's Stool, and the Mysterious Window: Cataloguing Union's Past.\ Spouses and guests are welcome. To make a reservation, call Bob Doolittle at 377-0274. Parking will be available In the lot in back of the Administration Building. Anyone with special parking needs should let Doolittle know when making the reservation. · Ludwig, associate professor of philosophy and chairman of the Philosophy Department, joined the Union faculty in 1969. He is a graduate of Gettysburg College and received his Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins University. Ludwig was ap- pointed last year as chairman of the college's Conservatorial Committee, organized to identify and catalog objects of artistic or historical significance to the college. The committee's work is partly in preparation for Union's 20oth birthday in 1995. Newman Bible Study · ScJienectady alumni, parents, - 1 and friends of Union are invited to a recePtion Thursday, Nov. 3, ancl Discussion Thursday, 4 p.m • Campus Ministry Office Carnegie 4thfltor SOPHOMORE REPRESENTATIV- ELEaiON RESULTS Dave Marin Eric Colsman · lleitli Kahn .MarthaMinehtn Total no .. of vo.tes caat-•119 65 ,., .. 64 votes 33 votes 27 votes 34.4% 33.9% 17.5-% 14.3% ...... ao Clllll...._ ... celvlil 1 11111..-ity (evil' SO%). of the ,,tel C..t, • ·...Mff •tectlol IMtw.- the two top Y'Otetetttrs, Eric C....._llitl hvt M41dR, wllllt lltW ttlliorrow, Oct. 2.1111 Camet'• IIIII froM 91.111. to 4 p.111. SOPIIOMOIIS- YOTE IN RUNOFF ELECTION FRIDAY .... CARNEGIE HALL rather brief, a variety of issues was discussed. As is the usual · forum procedure, committee reports were presented. First to be heard from was Ben Hecksher, V.P. for Finance. Very little was discussed at this past finance committee meeting. A requestwasinade bythe frisbee club for additional funds to pay for uniforms. This proposal was rejected. One other item was also discussed-the topic for next week's meeting. Next Sunday, (October 23, 7 p.m., in Carnegie 401) the finance committee will be holding a meeting to discuss a possible increase in the student activities fee. A letter has been submitted to ConcordieDSis as a fonnal announcement of the meeting .. All interested students are urged to attend. · Last week, the Committee on Committees ( COC) approved its received applications. These were submitted for approval by the forwn this past meeting, in a closed session. All those ap- pointed will be notified by mail. In addition, applications for ISC representative are still being received. A decision on the appointee is expected soon. Jamie Danziger, represen- tative to the Academic Affairs Council (AAG) presented the report of the AAC's activities. The main issue to be discussed was an alternate system to the present carding of courses; one which would assign a priority to students based on class and major. A tentative system was proposed. This system involves the use of sign up sheets: students sign their name, and major. Once all have signed the sheet, the following priority order is used: majors-senior, junior, sophomore, frestmnan; :non-majors-senior, junior, sophomore, freshman, graduate, other. As for the courses on a first-come, first- serve basis, those would con- iinue to use the present carding system. Danziger stressed that the aforementioned system was just a proposal, but that the final system would contain similar elements. Both the SAC (Student Affairs Council) and the IFC (Intra Fraternity Council) did not hold meetings this week. R~ports of their activities are to be given next week. The discussion no-w focused upon the \new business\· at hand. Much controversy has recently been raised because of the increase in phone rates. Ben Hecksher presented a statement stating the forwn~s stand upon this issue. This formal statement from the forum proposes to the ad- ministration that alternate, cheaper phone network systems be researched and possibly adapted. The .v, p. of, finance provided examples of other colleges (such as R.P .I.) which have adapted their own centrex networks, at a lower co~ than present Bell rates. Passed by acclimation, the formal statement is below. other issues were discussed, including a report of the recent rsc . meeting (given by President Win -Thurlow) and possible reactivation of the skellar board. This lattel' issue was tabled until next week for further discussion. In addition, the an- nouncement of a run-off election for the position of sophomore representative was given by Doug Landon, electi<m com- mittee chainnan. The eleetion will be held this Friday, with Dave Marin and Eric fulsman both in the race for this !)<)sition. ·As ·for next week, the following issues· will be discussed: the skeller board, approval of applications, and a reporting of the report presented by forum-SAC members Rodgers and Simone on the food service issue. · As introduced bY Benjamin Heckscher, Jr., Student f\orum VIce President For Finance: WHEREAS the Student Forum is the principal governing body of the Student Government Association of Union College and WHEREAS the pending divestiture of the American Telephone and Telegraph company is for.cing the New York ;relephone Company to raise their rates and the ma·(orlty of students at Ullioo College lease telephone lines and equipment from New York Telephone. The student Forum hereby recommends that: t. The Administration of Union College expedite their efforts to lnvesllgl!te lhe possibilities Of purchasing or leasing an \in-house'' phone system for the college. • 2. The Administration of Union College take into consideration the oplnions.and views of the students of Union College while formulating plans tor any changes In the present phone network on campus. 3. The Administration of Union College Integrate residence hails ancl Greek Houses into any new phtme network for the CoUege. 4. The Administration of Union College recognize that the students -of Union College consider the current prQblem with the New York Telepll<One company's rate structure to be of great concern to the students. The 1-nternaJtiona I La\V Society of Albany Law School presents alocturebv ABDOI. IAAKLINI on \The Future of Lebanon and us Foreign Polley in the Mideast\ October 27, 1913 7:30p.m. East Wino Lecture Hall Albany Law School so New Scotland Aile. Albany, NY 1220S a reception will follow the lectt.Jn

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS. October iO, 1983 FEATURES \ I Self Help Group College Young Democra•s By ANDREW CHANG ' The voice on tape was slow and painful. She said, \Am I going to make it? Is it rever- sible?\ The listeners were silent, sharing her experiences. The setting was at a meeting of the · Self-Help Group for Anorexia Nervosa and Bulimia. In the room were past and present sufferers, relatives, friends, and trained professionals. Anorexia nervosa stems from a state of mind in which a person believes he or she weighstoo much. The end result is not only self-starvation, but weight loss through vomiting, and ingesting large quantities of laxatives and diuretics. In many cases, severe mental depression accompanies the weight loss. According to Chris, who is presently undergoing treatment, one's personal perception is vastly · different from the perception of others. A sufferer often sees him or herself as heavy or obese, when ·in fact he or she is underweight. The branch help group was established at Union College in the spring of 1983 under the guidance of Doris · Richards, school health nurse,. Jan Wind- mueller, cerUfied clinical dietetic .technician, Gail George, a counselor in private practice, and Julie Town. According to Doris Richards, the group exists for .people,\ ... to come and find someone with the · same experience and perhaps to be able to help someone else.\ Help and discussion is confidential and medical aid referral is free. The group also hosts professionals in the field. Within the next month, Dr. John Jenks. of the Albany Medical College · will present a talk on the biological responsesto anorexia nervosa and bulimia. The meetings are held the first andthirdMondaysof every month on the lower floor of Silliman liall from seven to nine o'clock. Information can be obtained by contacting DOris Richards of the Health Service, at 6121, Dr.. Don Spring, Director of Counseling, at 6161, or Laura Cavoli, a student active in the group, at 377 ~808. ~ . ' . By DAVE FITZGERALD Associate Features Editor In recent years student awareness and political activity has been natlceably absent. To help make students more politically aware and active an organization called the College Young Democrats of America· iS forming on campus. Rob Bassin, fDlmder and recently elected president of the organization, feels strongly that there . is a place for his group and for . the recently formed College Republicans at Union. The idea to form a College Young Democrats organization on campus comes from Bassin who last year was not at Union but working· with the American Israeli Public Affairs Com- mittee. While he was With AIPAC Bassin worked with sixteen students from aroWld the country that were both Republicans and Democrats. It was during this' work ex- perience that Bassin's political opinions became clear to him. Part of the work that Bassin did while with AIPAC was to explain the illlportance of political action to students. It is with this firm belief in political Farewell to Father Pat By JULIE E. MOUNTAIN On Sunday·; October 16, Father Pat Casalenuouo an- noWlced his tran~fer , from St. John the Evangelist Church of Schenectady to St. Michael's Church of South Glens Falls. Before this transfer was made known to the dioceses, the Newman Club of Union College had planned to host, Father Pat at the Memorial ' Chapel on Sunday, October 30, for a noontime mass followed by a brunch at 1:00 at West College. In light of his transfer, it has been decided that this event will be Union's farewell to Father Pat. During a recent interview, Father Pat had a lot to say about his previous years at St. John's Church and his ex- pectations for the future at St. Michael's Church. When asked what he liked best about St. John's, Father Pat said it was being able to work with such a broad spec- trUIIi of people; a spectruntthat · · extends from small children to senior citizens. He also swd he enjoyed having the gift which enabled him to tap and release the stored up spirituality in each individual. He feels that he was able to reach this hidden spirituality by being genuine and caring not only for the group as a whole, but for each individual. Father Pat, a native of Syracuse, New York, was born on August 4, 1946. He attended North Syracuse High School where he actively participated 1n sports. In his senior year of high school, he was named to the AU-County Baseball Team as a second baseman, and was later SC()Uted by the Philadelphia Phillies. Father Pat was ordained into the priesthood on Aprll27, 1974, and came to Saint John the Evangelist of Schenectady on February 26, 1981. When asked what particular expectations he had for Union College students, he said, \I would like them to continue with what I have given them.\ He said that he has given something to the comp1unity; this something being the strengthened faith in God. He said it is time now for the community to show this strength by giving to the community as well as Father Provost. Father Pat also said that although he will no longer be 'across the street' or in 'ear shot distance,' he will \only be a telephone call away.\ The Union College ••Rockn'Roll\ Pizza Pul.) present: Pizza, Etc. ·Now Featuring: Hot Sausage Subs - $2.00 Pizza Bagels- .40..90 Hot Pretzels - .40- 3/1.00 This Week's Specials: Delivery Special . 370-6060 Saturday Afternoon Special 1 : 30-11 : 30 p. m • 1 : 30-12 : 30 a. m . Dutchman's Night! 2·free medium sodas, your choice, with any de. livery order (minimum· $3.75) One coffee and your choice of doughnut for only $1.50. Open Sun., Mon., Tues., Wed. Thurs., Fri., sat. Reservations taken Mon-Thurs. Normal business hours only! action and his experience in organizing students that Bassin will attempt tq make his org81Ulation politically a~ive in local, state, and national political issues. T}le Union organization has. .already en- dorsed Karen Johnson, the Democratic nominee, for mayor of Schenectady and helped students find. positions in her campaign. Three specific goals._ have been set for the · organi.Zatic;m. The first goal is to · get more- students registered· to vote whatever their political af- filiation may be. The second goal for the group is to have a series ·Of Democratic speakers come to campus. One speaker that the organization hopes ·w}.ll come iS Governor Cuomo. The third goal that bas been set and has already been put into action is involving students in political campaigns. Bassin feels that the newly formed Republican organization on campus will provide a snurce of competition • for the group. The Democrats hope to work with a number of organizations on campus and to fonn. coalitions with' them. He hopes tha·t groups such as the Women's Network, Student Environmental AlUance, and other groups will join with his to fonn issue consensuses - work together to promote common ideas. The Union group will not endorse a candidate for the Democratic nomination for president but once the 1984 Democratic . Convention ha$ been completed tM group will endorse a . candidate for preSident. During the pli,marie~ it is hoped that students will work on a number of .campaigns so that a diverse range of opinions Will ~ represented on campus. So far the College Young Democrats· of America have been well received. The officers of the · organization are as follows: Rob Bassin, President; Jenny Lea, First V.P.; David Tolge, Second V.P.; Jill Bradley, Secretary; an<J. Alex :tdodica, George Grossioger, and Jason Oshins as Delegates at Large. Besides being the president of the Union chapter of the College Democrats Rob Bassin is the .Vice President of Programs for the country. He will be involved in a series of training sessions on campus involvement. Groups like the College Young Democrats will hopefully raise the awar.eness of students on political matters and help students develop a louder voice in which to express their 0 FREE WINGS~~- ..., \'-S.:l'~ I ath any order of 10 wings t ~ . Or More . · BUffalo Style Not Valid on Specials Chicken Wings 393-0164 \We Specialize\ HOURS: Mon.-Thurs. 11 a.m.-1 a.m. Fri. and Sat. n·a.m.-2a.m. Sun.l2 p.m.-Midnight WING-WAGON 827 McClellan St •11 Schenectudy, New York Delivery $1.00 Every Hours-6 p.m.-Midnight I-SHIRTS Just for the Ladies Tuesday, Oct. 25 at mlxe.d drinks .1.25 happy hour prices from 10 'til closing 10 N. Jay St •• Schenectady 374q4836 P. S.: Don ,t forget us the rest ofthe week! Wed. & Thurs.: Two for one, 10 to 2 Fri. & Sat.: Late Nlte Hit ($1.25 mixed drinks) 12 to 2 Mon •• Thurs.: 10% discount on dinners with Union I.D. ~).-·· ~ • . I ( • J .I ] ' i ' t E ll t ll ( v 11 s t ~ a k 'I E a c u n tc t1 ii t< b E fi

' .. i CONCOR91ENSIS, October 10, 1983 P11geS FEATURES 1 Writer in ·Exile I The Hand-Stephens' Bar Guide By LINDA ZAHNLEUTER Features Staff An informal . faculty colloquium was given this past Tuesday· by Union College Assistant Professor Sigrid Kellenter,. the subject of whic;!h was the Gennan..Jew.ish writer in eXile. · · · Kellenter began the lecture With an intro~uction depicting the many difficulties facing aU exiles in America during . and after the Second World War, then went on to further compare and contrast three specific German·J ewish writers who were exiled from their homelands: Hans Sahl, Walter Sorell, and Otto Zoff. The lec- ture was given with an apparent great interest in the topic, an<l an undeniable depth of knowledge . and research. Throughout the entire lecture, Kellenter spoke .of the exiles and their positions with .a sin- cere attitude of compassion and understanding. All three · of the above- mentioned writers contributed to Arrierican culture; two of them, Sorell and Zoff, published in English, while Sahl continued to write solely in German. After being significant contributors to European culture, it was dif- ficult for these writers to . practically begin all over again. They lost their audiences when they moved from country to country, and they were forced to direct their :work to an en- tirely different culture in order tosucceed~ Naturally tl)ey, like so many other artisans of tJte .times., .faced many . financial hardships. Despite these and other obstacles, they survived, and they continued to ·do what they had done before the in- terruption of the war: write, Kellenter stressed the d!f· ficulties facing the exiles .because of tlte politiCal views of their homeland. She contrasted thls With their continued love for the country which forced them to leave, In the conclusion of the lecture, Kellenter posed the question: \When does eXile end?\ and answered· it by referring to one of the· German miters, who wrote that he felt like \an animal waiting to die, with a natural instinct to return to his home.\ After the lecture, Kellenter received many compliments and congratulations on a job well done. One person remarked that the lecture was \informative engaging, and most interesting.\ This cer- tainly was a reaction not un- common among the audience as a whole. WRUC Schenectady 89.7 FM Live Sports: Saturday, Union at Trinity Coaches Corner: 1 : 15 MaJor Corporate Underwriters: Schenectady Gazette Wendy's Call Sportsline WIN FOOD PRIZES Wednesday Nites in the WRUC~Wendy's ll'p.m.-Midnight TRIVIA GAME!! 370-6154; 370-6 ts1 By CHRIS HAND aod J.C. STEPHENS After spending some time in Schenectady, a Union College student may realize a need to find more diverse fare when bee she wants to get drunk. ;In ·that interest, we would llk:e to present the first in a series of inStallments exploring the area taverns and watering holes. The need for such a guide is especially great now that the drinking age .fs 19. Instead of having tiine to \test the water\ and find a bar that you like- once you turn of age you must be able to say \Let's.go to_,;._'' to your friends, and have you meet with such thunderous approval that they think you have been drinking since you could walk. One small note about these bars .. Since they are local bars, these are places that cater to the public, not just to you. Try not to dress offensively--no spiked hair for you · pseudo punks, no pink pants for preps. Use your judgment. If something you say, or do, or even the way you look starts a fight, you are gonna have some excitement. Make a quick survey of the place-are there lots .of breakables, what good weapons are within reach, and most\ obviously, is the guy bigger than you. Do nat be .afraid to run. You won't see them at your 9:30 tomorrow .. But without further ado, here is the Hand-Stephens guide to bars: Geppetos: Once a fine hangout for Union students and faclilty. Now good only for their · food and ease of pick-up, video, and T.V. ++(2 stars). Rupsfss: Great. Mon., Wed. specials. If you don't live on Carrie or Hattie Streets, come accompanied. Video, pool, bowling, jukebox, and T.V. ++++(4 stars). Reggie's: An imitation of Rupsiss, but further. Worth the walk because of their ·prices, darts, and juke box. Pool pinball, and T.V. ++lh+(2~ ---------------------' STARS(. BLACK AND WHITE · PARTY ' / Date: Saturday, October22 Place: ZBT Time: 11:00-2:00 • Dark and Light Beer . • Blac~ and White Russ-ians ... · • .Dancing ' ·'\ • Fun · • Non-Drinkers Welcon1e I.JUle 'Sam's: If you don~t lmow where it is, fina out soon. This is the place in Schenectady to drink unti15 a.m. George will cook anything for you. Pool arid pinball. +++lh+(3¥.1 stars). SUck's: Good hangout for faculty. Best known for their four-inch sandwiches, going here to drink is questionable- but if you're htmgry, it's another question. T.V. and nifty old pictures. +++(3 stars). Unlom IllD: Great potential for a Union crowd. Good prices and proximity to campus. Deliberately underdress. Pool, darts, jukebox, and T.V. +++(3 stars). Grogg Shoppe.: If you ever wanted to see a real ghost-go to the Grog. Her name is Marie. Video, Bands, and T.V. ++(2 stars). Kelly's: CLOSED ++++(4 stars). St. Mal1in's Cafe: Another hard-to-find but must-find bar. Ha~ an atmosphere that you can find nowhere else. Great music, ;1 tad expensive, but a must if you want to impress. ++++lh+(4% stars). Press Box: Small, Gazette orientated bar, famous for 20 oz. drafts. T;V. ++lk(2lh stars). Peggy's Canal Side; run by fonner head of SAGA (food service for you newcomers). A must go place in the warmer months. Sholild go into hiber- nation about now. ++(2 stars). La Patlsserie: Due to its location, great place to go for drinks before going to Proc- tor's. Also has great food +++(3 stars). Gravel ,Ge11fes: Biker bar. Wear leather-like AC-PC, and lots of makeup. Pool, jukebox. ++lh(2~ stars) .. Stoney Lane: -Nice, but a walk. Try it afttfr you've tried everything closer. Video and T.V. ++lk(2lh stars). Statfoq, No. 3: Schenectady sophistication: interesting decor. Pretend to be a rising young G.E. exec if you go. Video and T.V. +++¥.!+(3¥.! stars). So . . . if you've never felt inclined to venture forth out of the serenity of the Pub or the Rathskelier, you have a good excuse now. Admittedly, there seems· to be little in the area that would interest the average student out to let off some steam. It just takes that first ,9t:ep though, and believe us, there is something out there. Of the taverns and bars that we've told you about this week, maybe one will intrigue you, maybe none at all. Well, that's your prerogative. It seems that there is always something to do here at school if you don't mind a. little .repetition. You could go forth to the pub or maybe to the skeller. Maybe you'll party in your room or in the barroom of, your favorite fraternity. Hey ... it's fun, but if you want to get away from that for a while, even once, give one of these places a chance. One more thing however. Some of these places are not exactly close, . not or they exactly hospitable to everyone, so a few notes of caution. If you're a girl and are not a black belt nor fond of abuse, go with a group of your girlfriends, or bQyfriends, whatever the case may be. Second, most of these places welcome the extra business from Union College and will try to make you feel as comfortable as possible. If you start breaking glasses on your head or try to pick up the owner's wife make sure you're standing near an eJit. A final note. For most of the places, it takes little more than a few dollars to go out and have a really good time. You never know, you and your friends could be the ones who start a tradition, and soon maybe the students will finally have a real bar to habitate. Next week:. Biker's bars and much more. If you have any. comments or suggestions about area bars or any ideas about contests to stimulate interest in these places, contact · the Concordy office, COME TO CABARET TONIGHT! If you do, you will have the pleasure of: THE INFAMOUS MYSTERY ACT AND THE AWESOME, AMAZING, UNIQlJE, GIRED, AND TALENTED DANN I·RAPHAEL Buy your tickets now! It's worth you,r while Paisa Miser FASHIONS FROM INDIA Back to School Specials 20% Discount on all New Arrivals With This Atl 163 JAY STREET 377-7973 (hecks.Atcepttd with Vise, Mtller C•,hr Amerlccm bprtu '1'0:30-6 Dllily, l0;3t);.t ~•ys

- Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, October 20, 1983 ' 0Jl1li.CJlf~irnsis FoUI'HIM at ( imon C'oll~t 1877 ----~----- ---------~ One Tap for Yes Increases in New York State TAP (Tuition Assistance Program) have not kept up with spiraling college costs since the program's origination in 1974. The maximum TAP award then ($1500) was 60 per- cent of the average tuition cost of NYS independent colleges at that time, but today's maximum award ($2200) covers only 37 percent of this year's average tuition. In 1974, students whose net taxable family income was $20,000 or less received TAP, and the comparable income tQday, inflation adjusted, would be $40,000. However, the present TAP income ceiling sags at only $25,000. . . The potential hero to this woeful tale is the TAP Parity Bill, already passed by New YQrk's Republican controlled Senate. The legislation has been halted in the Assembly, though, because of the lower house's distorted views on State subsidation of independent versus public colleges and universities. Presently, NYS spends $6,500 for each student attending the SUNY system,. but only $800 of taxpayer dollars per student at independent schools, and average family income levels-of SUNY students are higher . than those of students at tile private in- stitutions! The chainnan of the Assembly Higher Education Committee, Democrat Mark Siegel of Manhattan, has blatantly fought against the TAP Parity concept, and his conunittee never even reported the bill to other members of the Assembly during the last legislative session. The Assembly as a whole never even had the opportunity to vote on TAP Parity! Let's not allow this valuable, necessary piece of legislation to die again. Write your assemblyman, encouraging him or her to support TAP Parity, and write Governor Cuomo, urging him to push for the measure, and to sign the bill if it does finally .pass both houses. TAP Parity would mean that most undergraduates now eligible forT AP would receive increased aid, and many students not presently eligible could get TAP. grants. With astronomical education costs, TAP Parity is a must to maintain the high quality of New Yprk's in- dependent colleges. Make it known that students and ,parents have strong feelings on this bill, and that we are watching the actions of our assemblymen toward it. Talk Is Cheap \I am really upset about this .. I'm going to write a letter to Concordy next week.'! If an actual letter or commentary followed every time one of liS at Con- cordiensis heard words similar to these, the editorial section would be five pages long. The unfortunate reality boils down to a well- intentioned, yet barely motivated student body on this campus, which has definite opinions about issues but can't muster the energy to put them on paper and share them with the rest of the campus. Every Union student pays an activity fee which helps to publish. this paper, and therefore has a right to express feelings in it. We encourage you to exercise that right. People on campus are constantly complaining about various departments, offices and policies at Union. This material from a concerned student body makes excellent letters-to-the-editor and com- mentaries. Concordiensis is your primary forum for personal expression on campus. After all, everyone reads the paper ... Don't worry that your efforts will be in vain~ as we have printed every letter received so far this year. If identification inhibits your freedom of thought, we will withhold a signature upon request. Let your ideas and opinions be known. If a person can make it to Union, he or she should be capable of putting together a few coherent paragraphs. It only takes a few minutes to suggest a change in college policy, attack a national issue or complain about your favorite administrator. Once again we strive to end another phase of the apathy wave at Union. See all the ads on the next page? Think of them as a billboard on the thruway that reads \Your opinion in this space. Call370-6155.\ SOPHOMORES Runoff election tomorrow for Forum Rep. between Eric Colsman and Dave Marin. Carnegie Hall· 9 a.m.~4 p.m .. LETTERS . Activity Fee M~y Be Raised - To tbe editor: On Sunday, October 23rd there will be a special meeting of the Student Forum Finance Committee in room 401 Car- negie Hall. The pufpose of this meeting will be to hear public comment on whether the Student Activity Fee ·should increase .next year. Currently aU full .. time matriculated undergraduate students are charged· $38 per tenn to cover the cost of student activities. 'l'hese fun«l~;~ are distributed to funded student organizations ,and committees by the Student 'Forum. Within the next couple 9f weeks the Finance Committee will make a recommendation to the Student Forum as to whether or not to raise the fee ne~ year. All are welcomed to attend. Thank-you :J.:983-34 Student Forum Finance Committee ·. Ben Heckscher, Cbatnnan Tim Smith Brian l.aux Andrew George Dave Weick Tfrn. Green· Andy Resnick WRUC Thanks S.upport To tbe editor: Edith Berkowitz in the Al\unni · Affairs office and Darlene Ward Thank you for your kind story ln the News Bureau for all of which appeared· last week their help in publiciZing this commemorating WRUC's great event. transfonnation to 100 watts. Thanks are also due to Jeff In addition to Concordfensls, . Southmayd, our lawyer; to Bin , we'd like to take this time to Bingham, our engineering thank many, many .people. .. consultant; ·to Channel 6 , for We'd like to thank President dropping their lawsuit; and to Morris. and the administration, Wayne Zieve, who helped clear especially Dean Mammola and up a possible•-problem in Lorraine Marra, for all of their Kingston. · support .over the past years. All of those people still coul~ We'd like to also say thanks to not have put us on the air. Geoff Tyre, our Tecfmical ·t>irect<!rt and Howard Friedman, ,his consultant, had a great deal to d() With Ol.ll' physical tran- sformation to 100 watts. . We'd finally like to thank the campus community, who have been so Understanding over an of these years. As WRUC begins its new ·era, we pledge to con• tinue improving and we hope that you'll be out there listening. Tbe Eii:ecutive Board Put Money Where Mouth Is To the Editor: no one should expect to enjoy themselves all the time without Each year, every student on helping out once in a while. this campus pays what the Think how much partyjng yQu'd administration terms a student do if all the conunittees, clubs, activities fee. This fee is part of fraternities, sororities and Pub- the tuition, and though only a Skellar workers didn,t want to small proportion of the bill, 125 do any of the work! There dollars is still a fair amount of · seems to be a tendency to say money. A large portion of this \someone else- will do it.\ My money goes to the Student point is that if everyone says Activity Committees, of which · this, who'll be the ''someone one of these Is the . Social else\? events that the campus REALLY wants and therefore more fun for the whole campus. But without the input of a lot of people., there is no way that the Social Committee can possibly please the camptis or sponsorlargeeventsthroughout the year. Come to the meeting ThurscJ.ay, Oct. 20 in strauss at 7:30 and give Us input and help out. Cormnittee. With a large committee there -- Mark Keller lhave been an active member is less work for. everyone, the.re Social Committee of this committee since I came will probably also be. more Cb.airman to Union and am currently one _________ ......._ __________ _.._. of its two co-chainnen. In the three years of \duty\ I have noticed two crucial flaws in the committee. The first flaw is that there is a significant lack of campus input into the com- mittee. It is very difficult for a committee of merely twenty to thirty students to, be able to accurately anticipate the desires of over two thousand · members of the campus. The week before last Friday's New Wave Night, I received countless complaints .that either the theme was lousy, timing was poor or the band was not known. These people were there to complain about the decision · but were not there when the decision was being made. The second flaw is that there is an extreme lack of par- ticipation, or perhaps awareness, dealing· with the committee. One of Social Committee's many functions is Camp Union, This is weU-known throughout campus and looked forward to all year. Unfortunately, there is . no contract on Camp Union, and : without a large VOLUNTEER committee, it cannot possibly be pulled off. I agree that there are certain things about running an event that are not much fun. Any of the back work that is associated with putting up an event, such as Camp Union or a trip to Rafters in the Winter, is tedious, time consuming and · occasionally agravating. But, .. All letters to the editor must be typed and received by Con- cordiensis before 3 p.m. each Tuesday before publicatio.n •. Editors-in-Chief News Editors · Features Editor Associate Features Editors Arts' Editors Campus Page Editors . Sports Editors Advertising Editors Layout Advisor Julie Abelman, Doug Landon Jay Baruch, Gayle Rosenfeld · Donna Getson Dave Fitzgerald, FranklinSchheider Debbie Albert · Karen Lissauer Karen Greaves, Jill Kaufman Drew Hurley, Paul Kurker Mary Ann Gagliardi, Heidi Rosen Peter Mohr Mary Phillips Daphne Chigas Robert Tang, Bonnie Rosenberg Lori Kaplan - - David Neiblwn JanBaran, Rich Bi~gen, Jill Bradley, Jodi Bren.ner, Lou George, Sam Gifford, Josh Greene, Chris Hand, Lynn Hano, Dave Marin, Christine Marsching, Robin Molena. Lori Oliwenstein, Steve Piraino, Linda Raffaele, Wendy Richards, Photo Editor Associate Photo Editor Sports Photo Editors Subscriptions Editor Political Cartoonist Staff · Rob Rissell,Debbie Rose, Judie Steinhardt, . Janice Thompson, PeterStegeman, Margot Salisbury, Sh'erryWeitzen, Philip Westerman, Scott Wykoff, Linda Zahnlenter Photo Staff Jon Barofsky, Jim Campbell, David Dworkin, Liz Karazim, Paul Klein, Pat Me~t, Patti Sacks, Larry Shapiro CONCORDIENSIS is pUbliShed every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563- · 7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first class matter. Subscription rate, $18 per year, delivered anY\Vhere in the United States. · CONCORQ'IENSIS subscribes. to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). Office Telephone~ 370-6155. un d1 stc: 1 .reJ Ni1 ·reJ · trCJ voi an fil;! go• . ( thE ev• on• trB wo the he arE mE COl sol' '] ret Ni< or COI . wo sa,; des dol rei) dis I wit s are nar. · clai bar her had bat her

CONCORDIENSIS, October 20, 1983 Page 7 News from Washington By JACKANDillRSON and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON~ThEre is an untold story in>the bitter, bloody civjl war -in Nicaragua. It'.s a story about women ln· C()mbQt. We .recently sent our roVing . reporter Jon Lee Anderson to Nicaragua. He was the only reporter to visit t~e combat troops of !ill the groups in· volved--the ~dirii$b · army and the three guerrilla factions fighting to overthrow the government in Managua. · Our reporter marched with the front-line troops and. was even caught in an ambush op one occasion. Everywhere be traveled; hefo!Uld evidence that women carry a sizable part .of the combat burden. From what he saw and heard, the women are as effective in combat as the men and have won thelr male companions' respect as soldiers. The largest anti&ndinista rebel force ,is the CIA-backed Nicaraguan Democratic Force, or FDN. It hl:lS an all-women combat unit of10 soldiers. The women were credited with saving a male company from destruction wnen it was pinned down/ in an ambush. Our reporter heardthe battle from a distance as he wa$ marching with another FDN llllit. Some of the female warriors are mere girls. A youngster named Marta, for example, · claimed to be 15 years old but barely had the strength to lift her AK-47 automatic rifle. She had already been in three battles when our reporter met her. ~ -¥.··.·. . . · .. Marta said she joined the rebels after her. father, a Sandinista officer, tried to force her into the youth militia. She ran away .from home and now, she said, she would, kill her father if they ever ·met in combat. · · Anotner rebel soldier, Dunta, was recruited by FDN com- mandos who •arrived at her house one night. Sbe is now an officer.andthe camp medic. She also acts as one of two political indoctrination officers. On ·the southern front, our reporter . rn.et another woman soldier fighting with the fabled. Commander Zero; Eden Pastora. A combat veteran, she first ·fought with Pastora four yeats ago against the dic- tatorship of Anastasio SOmoza. When Pastora broke with the Sandini$tas and went into exile, she followed· him. · On the Sandinista side, women are visible at all levels of the military. Many date their combat experience back to the guerrilla · warfare against Somoza in 1978 and 1979. Unlike women in the United States, Nicaraguan women soldiers are given combat assignments without regard to se~. They ask for no special consideration, and they .carry out their duties un- complainingly. FIRST PHANTOM?: What has happened to the Soviet Union's first lady? · U.S. intelligence agencies have been keeping a close watcli on Soviet Premier Yuri Andtopov for 30 years. They've followed every move he has- made as he moved up the Kremlin ladder to the t<)p. They have spy cameras that can identify the license plate on his limousine; their monitoring equipment can pick up his private .conversations inside the Kremlin. Yet the spooks can't locate Andropov's wife. They know her name- Tatyana Fellupovna .. They also know she's his secQnd wife. His first marriage ended for reasons that aren't clear. The first wife, inCidentally.~ has alsO .disappeared. Intelligence experts have been able · to keep track of Artdropoy's children. His first marriage produced a daUghter . named Irina, who is married to Alexander Filipov, a well- known actor. A son by Andropov's second' wife is named· Igor. He bas studied extensively in the United States and wrote a thesis on the .American labor movement. But where is the Soviet Union's first lady? Tatyana Feliupc)vna has not been seen for two years. She has not ap-. peared at social functions or public gatherings. Is she separated from her husband? The intelligence experts can't really say. They're not even sure whether she is dead or alive. TIMBER BAILOUT: During the late 1970s, the nation's timber companies anticipated a continuing demand for new housing and erigaged in a reckless bidding binge. The prices paid for federally owned timber reached 400 percent of its appraised value. Then the recession dried up the demand for housing and the companies · found themselves overloaded with unmarketable, over-priced timber. The firms asked President Reagan .for a ball out. He has declded to grant it, despite the objectiqns of budget chief David Stockman and· economic adviser Martin Feldstein . The bail out could cost the taxpayers billions. HEADLINES AND FOOT- NOTES: Rep. Sil:vio Conte, &- Mass~, is an outspoken opponent of expensive water projects. He recently showed up in the House cloakrooms wearing a pig mask to protest pork barrel water . \ Diamond Rings&: Jewelry • Wedding Rings • 14-lSkt Jewelry · • Colored Gem Stones • Watches Free Repair Estimates • Free Engraving projects then under con- sideration .. House Speaker Tip O'Neill, D-Mass., called Conte and asked him not to wear the mask on the House floor. -The Department of Agriculture has signed multi- year contracts to store wheat and grain in Midwest warehouses. Critics say the govenunent paid far too much money and that as many as three-fourths of the warehouses will not be used. Result: Millions of dollars wasted in contracts the government can't get out of. • Free Gift Wrapping • Free Diamond Cleaning and Inspection • Diamond Settings • Appraisal Service • Precision Watch Repairs • General Jewelry Repairs .) We're old enough to know better. TIME CEN'fER J ~WELEDC' p SINCE 1918 \\'J 428 State Street 3 Doors from PROCTORS Downtown Schenectady, 374-0183 OPEN EVENINGS

Page 8 \' CONCQRDIENSIS, ~tober 20, 1983 CAMPUS NEWS SCHOLARSHIPS If you are planning to ~ttend graduate school next year you may be interested in applying for a scholarship or fellowship. Tl)e Financial Aid Office .has information on graduate awards in the following areas: applied physical science, electrical energy (women llDly,), math, osteopathic m~dicine, the Christian ministry, and science and enghteering through both the National Science Foundation and NASA. In additton, infonnation is available on awards to graduate minority stu~ents in law, dentistry, management and political science. Interested students should inquire at the Financial Aid Office. TRAINEESHIPS Graduating coUege seniors, new graduates, and graduate students are invited to apply for the \live--in\ Preprofessional Resident Advisor Counselor Traineeships offered at The Devereux: Foundation in Suburban Philadelphia, a group of multidisciplinary residential and day care, treatment and NEWMAN CAMPUS MINISTRY Contemporary Issues Informal Lecture and Discussion Wednesday, Oct. 26 8:00p.m. Carnegie Hall 4th floor lounge rehabilitation centers. Preference will be given to applicants who plan to make a profession in mental health or related fields and are seeking a comprehensive experiential learning-training experience in .suppo,rtive mental health services to refine their career · objectives. For infonnaUon and applications write: Dr. Henry Platt, Director, Institute of Clinical Training and Research, 19 S. Waterloo Road, Box 400, Devon, PA 19333, Tel: (215) 296- 6906. The National Research Counen annowtces the 1984 Postdoctoral, Resident, and Cooperative Research Associateship Prog~ams for research in the sciences and engineering to be conducted in behalf of 19 federal agencies or research institutions, whose laboratories are located throughout the United States. The programs provide Ph.D. scientists and engineers of unusual promise and ability with opportunities to perfonn research on problems largely of their own choosing yet com- patible with the research .in- terests of the supporting laboratory. Initiated in 19M, the Associateship Programs have contributed to -the career development of over 3800 scientists ranging from recent Ph.D. recipients to distinguished senior scientists. Approximately 250 new full- time associateships will be awarded on a competitive basis in 1984 for research in chemistry, engineering, and mathematics, and in the earth, environmental, physical, space, and life sciences. Most of the programs are open to both U.S. and non-U.S. nationals, and to both recent Ph. D. degree holders and senior in- vestigators. Awards are made for one or two years; senior applicants who have held the doctorate at least five years may request shorter tenures. Stipends for the 1984 program year will range from $24,500 a year for recent Ph.D.s up to approximately $50,000 a year for senior Dutch Hollow Pub Friday- 10/21/83 4:30-8:00 p.m. ·· Happy Hour 1. Bar Pour Drinks ....•..............•........ 1.25 2. Draft Beer ......••.........•••....•... • • .... . 50 3: Soda .........................•... ; ..........• 25 Reduced Pitchers 1. Soda ..................................... · · 1.25 2. Beer ..............................•........ 2.50 Reduced Wine Carafes 1. Small .........•....................•.. · · . · · 1.75 2. Large ....•...................•............. 3.75 Non-Alcoholic Drink 1. The Breeze .................................. . 25 2. The Windmill ...............•...........•.... . 25 9:00-1:00 a.m.· BAND NIGHT Sponsored by u.c. Concert & Social Comms. , Special Guest · Roger Salloom & Stragglers Special Drink Dutch Toa~ted AI mond- $1.00 4:30-1:00 a.m. -~----rt Discover the magic of good ,books E QIS£ , . , N' DOOR,:<-<.+;;,~- TH ,· ,, :'· ·~~,' ; . ' ; ' . : ' I · 118- ~6)oy Street Downtown Schenectady : . '• -::' . 3,46~~71 (1 ~~·~ . ' ' ... ~ • associates. A stipend sup· P.lement up to $5,000 maY be available to regular (not senior) awardees holding recognized doctoral degrees in those disciplines wherein the number of degrees conferred by US graduate schools is significantly below 'the current demand. In the 1983 program year these areas have 'been engineering, computer science, space-rellted biomedical science, and petroleum-related earth sciences. Reimbursement is provided for allowable relocation costs and for limited. professional travel during tenure. The hoSt laboratory provides the associate with progranunatic assistance including facilities, support services, necessary equipment, and travel nece~ry for the conduct of the approved research program. Applications to the National Research Council must be postmarked no later than January 15, 1984. Initial awards will be announced in March and April followed · by awards to alternates later. Information on specific research opportunities and federal laboratories, as well as application materials, may be obtained from Associateship Programs, Office of Scientific and Engineering Personnel, JH 608-DI, National Research Coun~ll. 2101 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20418, (202) 334-2760. SPEAKERS Meetfug of the Union CGllege chapter of Sigma Xi will be Wednesday, November 2, at 4:30 P.M. in SS016. Richard Rynes,- M.D., Professor of Medicine at Albany Medical College, will speak about \Autoimmune Diseases\ with an emphasis on how such diseases may be pr9duced. · The public is invited to attend both t:tte lecture and refresh- ments at 4:00, · Joseph· M. Wnchey, Senior Vice Presi(lent•Finance, Analog Devices, 'Inc. will be speaking. on The Problems of Implementing a Company's Stt-ateglc Plan, on October 20, 1983-3:45 P.M. in Room 312, Balley Hall, Union College. clASSIFIEDS . Correction Any complaints about Fire . Alanns or Food Service should be directed to Marcy Viener 3'ZN641. · FOR'SALE: Sanyo SP 40 High Power brand new 4 inch Door Mount Coax Speakers. $4().-;C811 Jodi 381-1644. FOUND: Calculator. See D. Gray in Physics 't>~partment Office to claim. ~Rama: Call arter5 PM Collect 'and ask for Mr. James Hannay a~ 617 • 256-0985. Typing for students. Knows, medi~al temiinology. Please con~ct Anita at 355->3239. Typblg for students. Plea$e contact 346•51&4 Niskayuna area. Typing for students. Please contt:tct 37M222 .. :Mt. Pleasant area. Need tele-marketing reprel!entative P-T hours. Two different shifts 1-5 PM & 5->9 PM Monday through Friday. saturday 9AM to 12 PM. Hourly rate plus bonllS ,& Commission. Duties-Settling appointments for outside represenUltives. · R.J. Grosso Inc. 356 Troy-schenectady Rd. Latham, N. Y .12110 Please contact Eli-zabeth Crawmer at 7$5-3712 between 1 & 3 PM Monday through Friday. , Please check the Career Development Center for a sign· up time for IBM•fougbkeepsie. The Yale Sthool of Possible employment on a Organization and Management part-time basts only in Will be visiting the campus on automobile (mechanical, in· Friday, November 11, 1983, and stallation, customer contact), will be interested in speaking s;~les floor (inside and on road), with any major. Sign·.up in the clerical and package handling. Career Developtnent Center at Please apply between 12-5 Mon.· any time. Fr. sears, 166 Erie Blvd. 2nd ~~---------- floor. Equal Opportunity em· HELP WANTED ployer. , -PERSONALS Babysitter needed on Tuesday and Thursday from 2- 5:30 at $1.75-hour. Call 393-2546. Student-Cumberland Farms, Curry & Ft. Hunter Rd. P-T 4·12 week nights and weekends. Minimum wage. Please contact Valerie at 355-9943. Looking for student (female). Student may live in and take care of individUal recuperating from. stroke, (ambulatory). -Location Rotterdam near ShoP- Ken D'Orazio: Thanks for peeling me off the pavement! Signed: Not Narcoleptic First Floor Davidson South- We thought you were real men, how disappointing- Third Floor Richmond Ali: Have an awesome bir- thday. Love, ex 2130 )>D you Hltd a tltP.H . e ( . • Zl_tf'llltaVIIt'f 4/tAHJ~i )\dill\ \11/Jtit~ /11f/t $1/tl#\ lllllt/Je 11~ lillie /PI' Ill/ tljJI/1/k ( ''SKIN SY,STEMS\ is a 'fotal Salon, 1 our hair designers have been traifted by Sassoon; , .of london, and Jingles, N.Y.C. We cater to all your needs: HairDeslgfl Perms Colour Bodywee~r NaU teragthening Waxing Facials. Peclicures - - - - Til thil!! to at On \Cal weel Judy Rem was The enjoJ very tend1 Tb M.C. forg(] and fame excel crow what form an ott that·~ Juc Stevi Back Her: we~ highli her I Beth te,i:rs comp of thE Tri·D to ol Fr~ Byl Wor1 thrOUI camp\! will I AlUIIlii Octo bE will i Grant' Killer as pa~ living You Fe will a. perfon Grar intere backgr music. f8.mily ' Londm ' ' years · Northl in his ~ study t from I in or· estabU owned $6,( $1,()()( awai Phot sore< Phot< . will t All welc< on a11 areel • Prize prize1 awar1 differ Ph< color print , enter , wiSh.

runioDTalent I ByMR.A - 'l'here are certain thillgs on this campus which never cease to amaze me.· One of these things is our own 41 Cabaret.\ After attending last . week~s Show . which featured Judy Beth Green and Scott Remillard and his Jazz .Sand, I was left with mixed .emotions. The show was a thoroughly enjoyable one, the t~lent was very good, and yet the at- tendance was sparse. The .audience was greeted: by M.C. Luke Fannon who opted. to forgo the usual format of· joking and replace it with his world famotl$ juggling act. He was excellent (as usual) keeping the crowd iil amazement ill spitt: of what he called a \fair per- formance.'' He then introduced another familiar act to Cabaret; that of Judy Beth Green: Judy Beth opened with two of Stevie Nick's tunes '''Stand Back\ and \Leather· & Lace.\ Her strong, yet pretty vocals were. right ·on target, but the highlight -of her act came during her Diana Ross medley. Judy Beth asked for a few volun- te.ers~\Supremes\ to ac-_ company her on stage .. Several of the high spirited group from Tri-Delt were more than happy to oblige and proceeded to display their own dancing and vocal talents. After interm:i.ssion Luke ln- trodu~ed the second act, Scott Remillard gave the crowd an interesti'ng and entertaining selectilm · of jazz favorites ranging from_ 'Charlie Parker and DiZzy Gillespie to Frank Z'appa. :Scott is another veteran of the Cabaret stage, and if he perfonns again, I would urge old•time jazz fans to come o11t and enjoy his show. Earlier, I pOinted out that I left the Cabaret Room with mixed emotions. I could not understand why our students once again failed to show in- terest in campus activity. ',f.'hi:s lack of participation is also evident at athletic events, guest speakers, student elections, and many other facets of the college .. The purpose of Cabaret is to bring together the members of the campus community in .a relaxing and enjoyable at- mosphere and to ~low students to display the talents which might otherwise . go unnoticed. In the future I hope more in- dividuals see fit to take ad- vantage of -both aspects of Cabaret. CONCORDIENSIS, October 20, 1983 Poge9 '. • TH-E ARTS Mo:untebanks Presents Bus Stop By J.C. STEPHENS Just when you thought Union College was only the highly competitive academic and sports leader of the great Northeast, a surprise looms on the horizon. Are you interested? I hope so, because Moun· · tebanks, the theatrical gr.oup here at Union, has done it again. You say you don't like theatre? Well, read on a little bit, this is really good stuff. This year, Mountebanks promises to present some of the finest the~:~.tre that has ever hit this ·campus. In its faH ' production the· organization is presenting a great play: Bus Stop. This is the play that starred Marilyn Monroe some thirty ye11rs ago as the in- famous Cherie. Now, in. early November it will be done again, here at Union. In case you don't like plays or are not familiar witll those done here at school, this is a prize opportunity for you. ' · First presented on Broadway in 1955; the play by William Inge offers each person something different. Beyond its historical significance as a fine period piece of the 1950's, Bus Stop is also a timeless piece that ex- plores the relationships of men and women found in all times. Directed by Carol King, a past. perfonner here at Union, this fall's production deals with people. King, who appeared in \Rebel\ and \Antigonlle sets out in this pltiY to show the manner in which the women of 1950 and the women of today are stereotyped. \Compromising women breaking through ar- chetypical roles,'' King says, is a major consideration in this play. Not sexist by nature or in her intent, the play e~lores \the many facets of men and women.\ Beyond the 'importance that herein lies, it is more directly about people; \People needing people . . . needing people in a significant way,\ says King. The time is different, but the relationships that men and women share have changed little. Dealing with the attitudes of both men and women, the timelessness of the play lies in the inter-personal relations that all share. perfonners follow: Cherie: 'lbe chauntll$e, not talented; nor smart, but adorable, played by Shauna Bavar. Elma: not compromising, idealistic, but naive waitress played by Melinda Phillips. Linda is a veteran of theatre here at Union. Grace: The owner of the bus stop. Pragmatic, liberated but a lonely lady played by Elisa Setel. Will Masters: The sheriff who is strong and not one to be pushed abo).l.t, but not a pushy guy at all, played by Jon Skinner. Dr. Lyman: A former college professor, the man who lives on memories, \smart but not in- telligent,\ a womanizer, but as channing as can be, played by Mitch Bernstein. Bernstein is also an experienced returning player. Virgil: A gentle, quiet kind of shoulder-to-lean-on type of guy will be played by Adam Rosman. Carl: The bus driver is happy- go-lucky, simple-minded, \ignorance is blissed\ fellow who will be played by Adam Storke. Storke carries the most experience into the production. A seasoned performer sure to add some excitement. From Electric Avenue To Union College This year's turnout for Union's own theatre group was astonishing. In a frank in- terview this reporter had with the moderator of Mountebanks, Mitch Bernstein, I found this year's production to sharply break away from the play.s performed in the past. \This year we're doing a play that is more recognized. We're also attempting to attract more attention from the students and Bo Decker: An egocentric cowboy, wild and untamed, yet equally loveaqle played by Steve Strmtsky. ByLINDAZAHNLEUTER Word ·is quickly spreading through the Union college campus that .singer Eddy Grant will be performing in the Alumni Gym on Wednesday, October 26. The performance will include selections from Grant's most recent success, Killer on the Rampage as well as past productions including Livfng on the Front Line and Do You Feel My Love. A video show will also be included in the performance. Grant, born in Guyana, has an interesting and Unique background in the world of rock music. At age 12, Eddy and his fiuniJ.y moved from Guyana to London. Grant spent the early years of his musical ·career in North London. He realized early in his career that he needed to study the entire music business from performing to producing in order to succeed. He established the f1rst Black- owned recording studio in Europe, Coach House Studios~ which produced records for- Eddy's former group, the Equals. In 1974., Eddy formed his own record label, Ice Records. He built his own pressing plant, and when. it was needed, -di~tributed albums himself from the back of hls station wagon. · In 1978 Eddy had his first big hit with the Living on the Front Line. Popular groups such as \The Clash\ were influenced by the title song of the album when they covered \Police on my Back.\ A few years later on ''Sandanista.\ In 1981 the Do You Feel My Love album was released,. including \Can't Get Enough,\ one of Grant's biggest hits: Eddy Grant has become well known in his homeland as well as Europe and America. He has moved his f~muly ·~u Barbados, where he is both held in awe and treated as a friend. He is in- volved with the Barbadians and life in Barliados. His music Photo Contest $6,000 in prizes, incl1,1ding a Aspiring or little-known . $1,000 Grand Prize, will ·be photographers are expeqially awarded in . the World encouraged to enter. Ac.cording Photography Contest, spon- to Contest Director Joel sored by the World Andrews, \We want to spotlight Photography Society. 205 prizes talented photographers, and will be awarded. help them gain greater public All ·photographers are recognition. Photos are judged welcome to enter. Photographs on originality and photo interest, on any theme and in any style not just on technical skill.\ are eligible for the $1,000 Grand Do not send pbotogr..aphs yet! Prize and for the 204 other Interested persons should prizes. Special prizes will be request free informaUtm and . awarded for photos on nine entry forms. from: World · different themes. Photography Contest, Box 1170, · Photos may be color slides, Capitola, - California 95010. color print!!, or black-and-white Entry forms will also be prints. Photographers. may available at many camera . enter as many photos as they shops. ' wiSh. .· incorporates aspects of soul, rock, reggae, calypso, funk and pop. It often· deals with political issues as well as being simple, catchy, dance tunes. And on Wednesday night, October 26, Union College will be proud to present .... Mr. Eddy Grant! . the conununity, and to be judged on performance and not so much on the material,\' says Bernstein. The cast for Bus Stop is noteworthy. Carol King- directing, Kathy Cohen~ assistant director, and the So ... if you really have never experienced the theatre here or if you have and it never in- terested you, redemption time has arrived. Give it a shot, you'll most likely be surprised. It's cheap, and a little culture never killed anyone. Uni,on College Concert & Social Committees present: An Evening of Reggae with Eddy Grant \Electric Avenue\ . Oct. 26-9 p.m . Alu.mni Gym Students $6 General Public $9

Poge 10 SPORT.S Crew Gets Off Ground Volleyball Struggles Unfortunately, the Union College volleyball team chalked up another three losses last week. Losing first to Albany State on Tuesday, October 11 and New Paltz and Rochester on Thur· sday, October 13. Albany, of.,_ ficially ranked 15th in New York State, had a rough time defeating the Dutch women even though they won the first game, 1~. The second game was not as easy for Albany. Union's squad trailed by two points the entire game. Fierce spikes by Suzzette Collier and consistent sets by Cheri Wong led our offense. Union's service returns were not strong enough to combat Albany's serves and the visitors won the second ahd third games by very slilil naar~s. · The Dutchwomen faltered again at New Paltz because of problems with return.ing serve. Both New Paltz and Rochester gained points off their serves, however, Union's offense was as strong as ever. Freshman Barbara' Brady has consiStenly improved her strong side hit- ting. Barbara shined up at the net that evening along with co- captain Jodi Brenner and Suzette Collier. Union had a good chance to beat New Paltz in the second game When they were up 13-7, however, the girls were unable to serve two more consecutive serves and they seemed to have lost their concentration while receiving. · ~G sea~r~tl\Ull~ By JOHN CIOVACCO SpodsStaff After an absence of over 100 years, crew has been reinM troduced as a club sport at Union. If the club can acquire sufficient equipment and facilities, it hopes to launch its program by spring 1984. The crew club held its opening meeting October 5. The topic$ discussed at the meeting were the drafting of a constitution, the election of officers, the establishment of a budget, and the need for a faculty ~dvisor. Along with the 73 interested students in attendance was Bud Halsey, a representative from the Aqueduct Rowing Club, located three miles from campus. Halsey, who is in- terested in coaching the Union crew, ·demonstrated p'rope·r rowing technique with a state- of-the-art rowing simulator, a Concept n Rowing Ergometer. Club members will be exposed to rowing in the fall using Aqueducts four-man shell. Two weeks ago, six Crew Club members and· a model rower from Cornell University, Peter V. Edwards, took to the John Ciovallo, president Qf the newly forniedCrewCiub at Union demonstrates a rowing simulator. - waters ofthe Mohawk. Novices were taken outtwo at a time in· Aqueducts ,four-man shell and taught the basics of rowing by ~ud. H~ey wbo rowed close by m his smgle scull .. After only a short while, general roWing technique W8$ mastered by four members wh() had never rowed before. Tbe Club with the use of an eigbt·x:nan and a folll\-man shell. - is currently tryitig to get as many of its 120 members out on the .. water before the weather becomes inclement .. Anyone else .interested in participating intheCrew Club, please contact JohrtCiovacco at 3820:9366. Tennis • • . from page 12 Coach Means conunented that \Rita showed determination as she played a defensive match against her opponent from Hartwick. Her concentration also kept her going strong.\ A fine -wayto end one's final year on tbe team! Another player defeating her .Hartwick rival was :Meredith McCarty (6-2, 6- 1). Sbe won some great points by forci:ng ber opponent to play her style of tennis. Both doubles teams also showed good performance on the courts. The second doubles team of Gail Tankel and Peggy Belanoff (6·2, 6o0) exhibited aggressive· playing. Gail hit great shots from the baseline, and Peggy attacked volleys with gr.eat persistence. As their tennis season draws to its .cbse, the Dutchwomen bid farewell to two. valuable players, Seniors Julie Miller and Rita Lindenburg. They'll be at the state tournament in Rocllester this .Weekend. Good luck Dutcllwomen! 1 X-collntry ••• Continuedfrmn page 12 . 'th the light ' R' It also sttrs WL - f Seagram's 7 & 7U . for dance fever. for the 3•mile loop. other top finishers for the women were Jenny Snover who finished 6th in (20:37) andKaren Stash who finished loth vtith a time of (21: 21 ), In the jayvee race the top two Union finishers were Pete Granger and a greatly improved Dave Weeks who finished 6tlt and 7th respec- tively. .. • .• -·. :. ' er stirs with the- cool, refresh·~!d~~e;:oderationr-the perfect partTJers s~n&S~en © 1983, SEAGRAM DISTILLERS CO. NY, NY AMERICAN WHISKEY-A BLEND. 80 PROOF \Seven.IJp·· and \7UP\ are trademarks of the Seven· Up Company. Stagmnrs Posters Godiva Chocol.ates Kites • Teddy Bears o,41111 0:30·5:30 Tltvrs. to i:30 164ay$t. Sclltaecttnly, NY 12305 PiHne:.S 11•314·tl03 -- - - en ... (I) .0 c: (I) II) 0 ~ (I) c: c: 0 al >- .0 ~ 0 .c Ci1. s Or. Won face, who The the frorr. garn threl Sop.ll SCOrl frest The mOr« scor McC othe1 Elail aggr cons clear of l Sophol break! defeat (silen McGr• Schief game defem turnec ... 91 D1 By The team recogr the to New 1 Des1 the,tOI Dutchl Satur~ the En ·· WUk s midwB a bea Monks pointo j)oorly Earl EnginE of the tensity Union rhome1 .establl li'ortun on a

Ol I.. Cl.l ..0 1: Cl.l Ul 0 ~ Cl.l s:: c: 0 al >- ..0 E 0 .c Q. CONCORDIENSIS. OCtober 20, 1983 Pqell '· SP ••• on Dutchmen ·soccer Stickwomen Blast Vassar Sports Talk · B~KATHYDUFFY . y Sports Staff On last Monday. the Union Women's Field Hockey te8IB. faced. a confident Vassar sq'Wld who .succumbed to Union,. 3.0. The Dutchwomen dominated the game, takilig commaAd from the opening whistle. The garnet and white scoreq just three minutes into ~he fi.rst half. Sophomore Cheryl Washbum. scored on a beautiful cross by freshman wing, Lillian Tyree. The Dutchwomen blasted ·eight more shots but were unable to score again. Golie Vera McCarty sa:w little action on the other end ofihe field. Freshman Elaine l'ick played a very aggressive game, showed considerable hustle, and cleared the ball consistently out of Union's defensive end Sophomore sweep Linda Nelson breaks the ball upfield. Union defeated Vassar 3·0. (silencing senior .Mary McGrath). Sophomore Janet Schieferdecker played a fine game w:hile bolstering Union's defense. Freshman Fran Cjaka turned in a fine performance, ... 9th in State repe~tedly stealing the _ball front Vassar's attack. Union capitalized in the second half. 'T.he stickers' scored at 3:25 on a play .by the duo of junior l)ianne 1\loskaluk and Washburn. flloskaluk scored on a perf~ct ,pass from Washburn. Again 'lfnion'~ deferu.ie kept Vassar pinned in their own defensive end. Linda Nelson beat Vassar c()nsistently by changing the field of play, setting u,p Union's attack. The Dutchwonders scored again at 16:-21 on a shot by Moskaluk, assisted by · .. ~J)homore Julie Ftizsiminons. Goalie Vera McCarty played a flhegame, recordiqg a shtit-out. On Satruday, Uni9n defeated a rough Siena squad, 1-0. Two Union players were injured in en the.opening three mblutes of the ~ game .. Union continued to excel .g el(ecuting strong _ stick-to-stick 2 passes to beat Siena's def~nse. o:: Tne Dutchwomen's attack .~ played well together, recording -~ atotalof thirteen Shots on goal. ~ 'lb.e attack was led by senior >- Mary McGrath, who played a ~ phenomenal game at wing. She ~ repeatedly carried the ball up a. the field dodging Vassar's defense and crossing the ball spectacularly. Fitzsimmons scored on a penalty corner at 1:30 of the first half on a pass fr()m Moskaluk. Fitzsimmons owns a powerful drive and is the c'designated hitter\ On penalty corners; It was obvious that Siena's defense was- afraid of her pgwerliil . shots~ 'Cneryl \Vashburn played an ex· ceptional game on both offense and defense. Fran Cjaka turned in another fine game on defense. Vera McCarty played intensely in goal as she pursued th~ ball aggressively, kicking it out of the circle numerously. Elaine Pick displayed fine stickwor~ beating Siena's defense consistently. ()n Monday, Union suffered a disappointing loss against an eager Hartwick team, 4·0. Union was unable to play up to tbe high caliber evident in the victories over Vassar and Siena. The Dutchwomen had trouble working the ball up field. Union was pinned in their defensive half most of the game. McCary played an outstanding game in goal, recording eleven saves. Dutchmen Boot RPI By PETE STEGEMANN Sports Staff The Men's Varsity soccer team has finally been recognized this week as one of the top Division III teams in New York State. Despite being noted as one of the top teams In New York, the Dutchmen played poorly last Saturday as they squeaked by the Engineers of RP,~~t 2·1. Doug · · WUk scored Union's first goal midway through the first half on a beautiful cr()SS from Jim Monks. This was the only high point of the half as Union played poorly as a team. \'. Early in the second half, the Engineers (1·9) took advantage of the Dutchmen's lack of in· tensity and tied the score, 1-1. Union still collld not regain the momentum 111 which they had . established In :previous outings. fortWlately, Jim Monks scored on a heads·u~ play after receiving a fine pass from Jay Davis. The Dutchnien felt lucky in their win over RPI and plan to irnJ)rove tn~ir play this Saturday as they host Platt- sburgh on Garris field at 2: 00. New York State Soccerc Coaches Poll 1. Buffalo St. :2. Cortland St. 3 .. Aifred 4. St. Lawrence s. Ithaca 6. Univ. Of Buffalo 7.1<ingsPoint · .. s, Binghamton • 9; Union , · 1.0. R.I.T. 8-1-1 7-.2 . 7-3-0 . 10-3 7-l.·l 6:2-3 . 10-3 8·3-2 •. 5-1-2 8-4-0 With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff In the J. V. action, Union tied Siena~ in a hard-fought battle. Freshman Nora Tuthill played her best hockey yet this season. She played an aggressive game in the circle but was unable to Senior forward Mary McGrath' will be playing her last game this . Saturday for the Dutchwomen field hockey team. place the ball past the goalkeeper. ·Sophomores Jen Lane and Erica Schnitzer worked well tog~1ter on the _. forward line. MaryBeth Naven played a scrappy game on both offense and defense. Anne Skaylo played a strong defensive game clearing the ball out of Union's defensive circle. Dianne Moskaluk recorded her first shutout in goal. Union's J.V. went on to tie Hartwick -~ in that meeting. The team outhustled and out- played Hartwick but was unable to muster a goal. Union faces a demanding schedule this weekend at home. Union plays Potsdam on SatUrday at 8:30 a.m. and Manhattanville Saturday af- ternoon at .4:30 p.m. Come support them in their last meetings!!!! ! For the first time this season and for the .first tbne in a whlle, the Union College Dutchmen soccer team has found its way into thetop~ten of the New York State Div. IU Coaches Poll. The ingredients head coach Bob Magee has used in his recipe for getting the Dutchmen off to their best start in years has been a nice miX of youth and older veterans. The hooters are well along the way to enjoying a banner season, last year, though, was quite a different story. Last fall, the Dutchmen suffered through one of _their tougher years under the helm of Magee. The season started out with Union traveling to the soccer hotbed of the United States to battle a far superior Hartwick team. The highly- ranked division one team ripped the Dutchmen and handed them a defeat that would set the tempo for the remainder of the fall. With the toughest schedule of any small school in the'East, Union walked onto the field with a team that had a few big name players, but not many players to support those few. A player that was frustrated by the Dutchmen's showing in '82, is this year's co-lcaptain . Bernie Zeifang. He's the only player on this year's squad to play in post-season competition. He went .. to the ECAC playoffs with the Dutchmen in the fall of 1979. Bernie returned the team last year after a season's hiatus , and never seemed to be able to put it together with the per- sonnel on the roster. Though he played in the same line up with outstanding players like Andy Dreher and Istvan Tamoga, the lack of depth in the entire lineup led to a long year for both Zefang and his team. Also bothered by the lean season of 1982 was Bernie's close friend and now co-captain Dave Shieridan. Sheridan suffered from the same lack of support as he really never got a chance to shine as he had in his two previous years of service to Magee. Both Zeifang\ and Sheridan are back. Tamoga has transferred and Dreher is now an alumnus. Why the big tur- naround in a single year? Well, that's when the new blood comes into the picture. As mentioned in an earlier edition of Sports Talk Coach Magee went out. the day the season ended in '82 and traveled the Northeast to seek out and find some of the top young prospects who were interested in attending Union College. When the hooters took to the field against St. Lawrence in their opening contest, Magee had ten fresluneil on his roster with three starting. Out of those ten players, Jimmy Monks is :prP.~ently the ler-.ding goal scorer on the team and Guy Claveloux helps anchor a Union defense that gets tougher with every contest. He shows the potential to become one of the top players in the school's long tradition of fine soccer. Even more · important than these standouts have been the many quality substitutes that Magee, with the influx of good fresh- men, has been able to call on throughout each contest. At times, the Dutchmen show a lineup that employs the services of seven freshmen at a time. The Hartmans, Crandalls, Fielders and Monks are the type of players that Magee can use to compliment the play of the Zeifailgs and Sheridans. Also enjoying banner campaigns with this added support are the Philbricks, Harrises, Foremans, Anastasis and Cutters . To top it all off, Magee was able to sway soccer fanatic John McNamara back to Schenectady to add his ex- pertise to Dutchman soccer. The future looks bright for Union soccer and even an NCAA berth could be. in the offering by the end of this 1983 campaign. Stand Corrected- Even well· versed sports columnists are prone to make a few mistakes over time. Yes, the Canadiens have won five straight Stanely Cups and No, the Phillies did not take the series ... sorry. At-hlete of the Week By DREW HURLEY Sports Staff ·For the second week in a row we will recognize two student- athletes with \Athlete of the Week\ honors. Senior tennis player _Julie Miller has just finished her fourth season as a letter winner for the Dutchwomen tenriis team. He1· career record of 45-16 is easily the best perfonnance by a singles player since the sport's inception at Union in 1975; This season, Julie compiled a 10•1 record while pla'ying number one singles. Her only loss CaJQe against Vassar when she played ill. She did not play against Williams. Last year Julie finished fifth out of sixty- . four in the NYSAIAW tourney. Julie, a native of Miami, Fla, will leave this evening for that same two-day tournament. The Dutchwomen tennis team finished 5-7 under the direction of first year coach Anna Means. Diane Moskaluk is to Union field hockey, what -Julie Miller ~ is to Union tennis. A three-year .c varsity starter, Diane is d currently the leading scorer on . a team with only twelve goals. u; She has tallied five goals and two assists from her forward poSition. She was also last Diane Moskaluk year's leading scorer with eight goals. Miss Moskaluk, a junior ·computer science major, is frol'Jl. Massapequa. At • Massapequa High, she was her . team's MVP, an All-county field hockey player. Field hockey is currently 3-8 with two games remaining this weekend against Potsdam and Manhattan ville. Julie Miller

. \ Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS,· Octo.ber 2(}, 1983 · s ,..tough test in Trinity Defense Leads the Way, 35-0 By LOU GEORGE Sports Staff The Dutchmen traveled to nearby Troy and faced rival HPI in the 8lst renewal of New York State's oldest football riva]zy. Union extended its win streak to eleven games, tieing the school record set back in 1915. The gridders toppled the Engineers 35-0 but were n<lt pleased with their perfonnance, a sign of a superior team. Huttner, who continues to play good, consistent football, gained over one hundred yards · on nine carries, the Gamet offensive maclline was not the bright spot on the field. women greatly improved their nothing short of tremendous. Three times the Dutchmen offense turned the ball over in their own territory and three times the Dutchmen defense rose to the occasion and kept the Engineers off the scorebOard. Senior Dutchmen (L to R) Tom Quirk, Tom Plungis and Rich Kellaher accept 'Wooden Shoes' from AD Dick Sakala and head coach AI Bagnoli. Offensively, the Dutchmen played sloppy football turning the ball over six times, 'four times in the first half. This allowed a less talented ·aPI team to stay within reach of Union until the second half. Whenever a team wins by such a large margin, but plays well below their potential, as they did Saturday, one must realize that this is a dominant football force. Comparing the Garnet offensive performance to their others within the past year is to say it was nonexistent. Although senior halfback Bill Union's first team defense extended their unscored upon streak to 34 quarters over the last 81,2 games; the last team to score on . them is this week's oppOnent Trinity. Union took the opening kickoff and drove 75 yards in eleven plays and scored on a 22- yard run by Johnnie Johnson,. · after this efficient five-minute drive 'the offense sputtered the rest of the afternoon. Union's first turnover was an in- terception on an overthrown Stewart pass at the Dutchmen's 27 yard line; but the defense Booters Snap Losing Streak ByCPSIS Sports Staff On Monday, the 17th, the women's soccer team ousted the engineers of RPI 3-1 on Garris Field. This victory snapped a five-game losing streak for the Dutchwomen. The most recent losses for the lady booters came at the heels ofWilliams6-0, Colgate 5~, and. most recently Skidmore 3-1. The lone bright spot came when Robin Psota notched her second goal of the season to prevent the shutout against Skidmore. In all three games our lady hooters came up. flat and failed to play to their full potential. Against RPI, the ladies notched their second victory of the season against a pesky OPIJ?nent Union was led by Jun1or forward Robin Psota who notched her third and fourth goal.s of the season. Lisa Rathbun contributed the third Uni.on tally sealing the victory for the lady Dutchmen. Out- standing in the goal for the Dutchwomen was Jane Webb who recorded her third victory of the season and her first career shutout. The lady hooters are on the road this week and return home to conclude their season against Albany State on October 31. All are invited to support the young and exciting Dutchwomen squad. Harrier Summaries ByBOBSTENARD Sports Staff This past weekend both the men's and women's cross country teams suffered losses to R.P.I. Despite the loss, the men's team consisting of 5 sophomores and two freshmen, showed promise. A rapidly improving Billy McRoberts led the Dutchmen with a second· place finish with a time of (26: 14) for the 5-mile layout. Once again Chris O'Donnell showed his consistency with a fourth place (26:30). Other scoring Dutchmen were Neal Ricks 7th (27:10), Bob Stenard 12th (27:29), and Mark Craw 13th (27:30). Coach Ebbetts seemed very optimistic with his team's finish and noted, after a week of hard practices, there were many strong races. Amy Walsh for the third straight meet proved to be the lady harriers' top scorer with a 3rd pla<:e. finish and a time of 19:16 Continued on page 10 held. Union's second turnover came on an interception by RPI's Dave Perejda, again the, defens.e held. In the second quarter Johnson f'IUilbled the ball away on the Dutchmen's 35 yard line and again the defense thwarted an RPI threat. RPI was given another gift when a confused Stewart to Huttner pitch. was ·fumbled and recovered by RPI's Dan Rok- jer, again the defen13e held. The · linebacking crew for Union, which has played solid defense all year, continued to do so Saturday. Freshmen defensive back Alex Rita also continues to bring a smile to AI Bagnoli's face with his stellar performances. Saturday Rita had two interceptions and was in on a host of tackles .defen- sively and on specialty teams. In the second half the RPI Engineers had their share .of turnovers but the difference was that the ailing Dutchmeil offense found ways to cash in those turnovers for points. Bob . Bertagna jwnped on a fwnble and intercepted a· Tom Wood .pass. The.se two turnovers resulted in a ten ·yard touch- down run by quarterback Dan Stewart and a five yard touch- down pass to tight end Frank Kraft, who always seems to find some way to get open in the end zone. Halfbacks Johnson and Huttner rounded out the scoring. Johnson had a one yard .plunge and Huttner a 36 yard, bmst up tne middle. This coming Saturday the Dutchmen travel to Hartford, Connecticut to face Trinity in what will be their toughest contest of the seasQn. Offen- sively, the Bantams are high powered and are led by quar- terback Joe Shield and receiver t Tim McNamara. ·Last week against Colby, Trinity set a New England offensive record compiling 676 yards. The Union defense, which allows an average of 136.6 yards per game, will meet their test .. Offensively, the Garnet is due to explode and Saturday would be an opportWle time for coach Bagnoli and the Dutchmen: ·Union 7 3 18 7-35 RPI 0 0 0 0- 0 u- Jtmnson. n. run !Sticka, kick) U - Sticka, 24, field goal U - Stewart, 10, run (kick failed) u - Kraft,. 5. pass from Stewart (pass failed) u - Johnson. h run Crun failed) U - Huttner, 36, run {Sticka, kh:k) First downs R u5h<!1s·yards f'insing yards ·Passes STATISTICS Union 18 57·281 59 9'77·3 'Sol <4·36.5 l 2·10 Returns yards Punl$ averog~ Fumbles lost Penatties-yarcls Lambert Bowl Poll RPI 7 31-26 12~ 12-JJ.J 6 1·31.6 1 e.az \The Best of the East\ 1. Union 2. Hofstra 3. CarnegieMellon 4. St. John's 5. Westminster 6. Lycoming 7. St. Lawrence 8. W.P.L 9.Susquehanna 10. Salisbury St. 5·0 6·0 . 6-0 6·0 6·0 5-0·1 4·1 4-1) 3-0·1 6·0 ' NCAA Division HI Poll 1. August ana (I LU 2. Carnegie Mellon {PAl 3. Hofstra <NY) 4. Salisbury St. (MD) 4. Wisconsin LaCrosse 7. Case Western COH) 8. Wis. River Falls 9. Union (NY) 10. Lycoming ( PA) 5·0 6·0 6·0 6·0 . 6·0 6·0 . 5·1 5·0 5·0·1 Trinity coaches and players hqvebeenlookirtg at pictl!res like this all week in preparation tor Saturday's game at Trinity. The 3-1 Bantams set aN .E. record ot.676y(;fs in offense Sa.t. vs. Colby. SCOREBOARD FOOTBJ.I:LL (5·0) Uniori. 35 RPI 0 WOMEN'S SOCCER (3>5) Williams6 Coigate5 Skidmore 3 union3 UnioriO Uniono Union 1 RPI 0 MEN'S SOCCER (5·1.-2) union ·Union '2 1< ings Point .RPI 1 FIELD HOCKEY (3·6) Union3 Union 1 Hartwick4 Vassar 0 Siena 0 Uniono. TENNIS (4•5) Vassar 5 Williams.6 t:Jnion 5 Union 6 Union2 Union 1 ·Siena 2 Hartwick. I Albany . .st. Rochester VOLLEYBALL {0·6) (15·4, 15·7) vnion Union (15·9, 15·6) MEN'S X-COUNTRY (0·2) RPI17 Union34 RUGBY (1·2) RPI19 Uniono SPORTS HAPPENINGS Oct. 20-27 Varsity Football J.V. Football Men's Soccer J.V. Soccer Oct. 22at Trinity oc.t. 24 Williams Oct. 22.Piattsburgh Oct. 26 Skidmore Oct.20Williams Oct. 22 at BerJ<shire Oct. 22 at Albany St. 1:30 3:30 11:00 '3:00 3:00 3:30 3:30 X·Country Volleyball Field Hockey Women's Soccer Tennis Rugby Oct. 21-22 at Vassar {tourney) Oct. 26 at ALBANY ST., Russell Sage ·oct. 22 Potsdam Oct. 22 Manhattanville Oct. 25 at LeMoyhe Oct. 21·22 NYSAIAWTourney Oct. 22 at Amherst B:.30a.m: 4:30 3:30 1:30 .. . down Hartwick 6-l Tennis Ends S~ason By LOIS LANE (J.B.) Sports Staff After suffering tough losses in away matches against Vassar and Williams, the Union College Women's Tennis Team returned home to capture its two final wins against Siena and Hart- wick. The Dutchwomen ended their season on a confident note. Even though the season seemed to have passed quickly, Coach Means felt that all the girls greatly improved their games. Against a competitive Vassar team, both Robin Leich- man (5th singles) who played a very tough minded match; winning (6-4, 6·1) and Judi Philipson (siXth singles) who played with a strong topspin forehand and strategic shots, winning (6-2, 6-3), were Union's only singles victories. In doubles play against Vassar, first doubles team of Linda Esposite and Lorna Rushforth also enjoyed their win (7-li, 5-.7, 6-3). Coach Means felt that overall ''the first doubles team worked well togethr, supporting one another. They have played many three-set matches this sea~n and even though they played against opponents with better ground strokes, Linda and Lorna played smartly and changed their tactics.'' Together they had a highly successful season. Coach Means was also very proud of 2nd singles, Susan Slavkin, who enjoyed the only win against a grueling Williams team (6-1, 5..7, 6-4). Menas commented that \Susan was the most improved tennis player this season and deserves to be conunended.\ In Union's home match on Saturday against Siena, the Dutchwomen were once again victorious. Julie Miller {-1st singles) came back, having only one loss in the season, to win (6- 2, 6-2). The team will be sorry to see Julie go. She had a very successful season. Coach Means feels that her success was due to her \fabulous athletic abilities: including her forehand spin, excellent volleys, and 11 the best serve on the team.\ In doubles action against Siena, the 3rd doubles team of Julie Kcn'tick and Carol Yerden played excellent tennis. Julie, combining a fast forehand passing shot and attacking style, played well with Carol, a consistent hitter, who is fast on her feE)t. The resUlts (6-4, 6-3) speak f()r themselves .. In their last match against Hartwick. ()n Monday, the Dutchwomen displayed their toughest tennis yet. Each player enjoyed a win, and gave up an average of only two games. Both Susan Slavkin (2nd) (6-2, 7-li) and Rita Lin· denblll'g (3rd singles) played intense two-set matches. Rita made a fantastic comebaCk. Continued on page lD ...: ci >- .0 ~ 0 . .s:: a. l ..,.. 4i .0 Q E Ill u E 0 1- > .Q ~ 0 .s:: a. va un Fe we At Til at1 fr( gr• da Bu ffi4 Pr as: m;: Pe prt ret twt of te~ int· 1 ent be ClU tee Fa; ele: tin ren ifit( Thl fim des tecl art: vit~ sch fom \bJ bet tee I \re· tee I soci don wor \ cen1 ces! inJ Stor of Yal~ fron ten( are. Pro disc of Pro ialk Unb Prol wat,

/ «i .c Q E Ill u E 0 I- :> ..Q .E 0 .c a Chris Chadwick, assistant director ·of the Security and Safety Department, • liege 1877 October ~l, 1983 Security Cars Vandalized By DOUG LANDON Edttor-fn..Cbief Last Friday night Phi Sigma Kappa Held its annual \World War III\ party, but the evening ended in a somewhat unepected manner. At about 1:30 a.m., officers of Phi Sig contacted the Depart- ment of Security and Safety, asking for assistance in breaking up the party that they believed had \gotten out of hand,'' according to assistant de~ of students Robert Massa. Security o(ficers arrived in their two cars, parked the vehicles on South Lane near the stairs leading down to Phi Sig, and entered th.e fraternity. The officers proceeded to disburse crowds and end the gathering as well as alter· cations and scuffles that had developed among guests. When the patrolmen returned to their cars, they found the vehicles had been vandalized. The damage was discovered at 2:10 a.m. second car, a brown Chevrolet, were smashed, and wires yanked from the socket, disabling the lights on the other side also. Sloan Goes ToW ellesley 'The security department has not yet determined the iden·· tities of the perpetrators, said assistant }director; Christopher Chadwick, but it is strongly suspected that they are individuals who had recently left the party. \There was a gr<>up of '.guests' at Phi Sig upset that security was. helping PhiSig bre._ak up a party,\ Dean Massa said, and these may be the people responsible. Chadwick pointed out that although the damage was not of an \extremely serious\ nature, unanticipated repairs of any consequence drain security's budget. He also added that the broken lights put the brown car out of commission for the remainder of that night. Essential repairs, such as headlight and spotlight replacement will be made, but the cosmetic vandalism may be neglected if security deems other uses for its budaet of greater necessity. \The fact that students have fun and have parties is fine,\ Dean Massa said; but he is disturbed that this is \one of several\ incidents on campus so far this year where violence has resulted. By GAYLE ROSENFELD News Editor \ During this past summer, various workshops were held under the auspices of the Sloan Foundation. One such seminar was held from August 7 -to August 21 at Wellesley College. Thi$ particular wor~hop was attended by _twenty:-fiv~ people from the ten colleges receiving grants from the Sloan Foun- dation. Professor Andrew Burke, visiting professor of mechanical en.gineering; Professor William Fairchild, associate professor of mathematics; and Professor Peter Heinegg, associate profes~or of· English all represented Union during this two week conference. The topic of discussion was that' of in- tegrating technological courses into a liberal arts curriculum. The starting premise of this entire affair is that a ''role can be played by technology in the curriculum that could enhance\ technological knowledge, said Fairchild. \We want to inject an element of technology,\ con- tinued Fairchild, ''without remaking liberal arts colleges into technological institutions. The Sloan Foundation, in its financing of such . seminars, desires to bring the technologiCill world to liberal a~s colleges without losing vital aspects of these small schools~ As Heinegg noteq, the foundation is attempting to \break down the barriers\ between liberal arts and technology, but in a way to \retread one's thinking'' -atlout technology and its role in society. It was this notion that dominated the Wellesley workshop. \At Wellesley we con- centrated on looking at suc- cessful eXperiments on courses in technology\ at Princeton, Stonybrook, Brown, University of Georgia at Atlanta, and Yale,\ said Fairchild. Experts from these five schools at- tendants led discussions in their area of interest. Princeton Professor David Billington discussed successful examples of architecture, Brown Professor Barrett Hazeltine talked about electr(mics, University of Georgia, Atlanta Professor PaUl Meyer spoke on water resources, Yale Professor Bob Wheeler discussed micro electronics, and Stonybr90k's professors Mike Visich and John Truxal focused on energy and cyber- netics. Each of these men took their specialty and applied its technological aspect to the world itself. Or rather, as Heinegg commentedj these men explained the technology of . these subjects and ''basically described how these impact on one's life.\ The two week meeting itself included \participatory sessions, reading outside materials, and and above all, talking with people,\ said Fairchild. \For two' weeks we lleard a bunch of gifted humanist-engineers,'' added Heinegg. Billington, for example, discussed the Brooklyn Bridge in technological terms then in its historical and societal aspect. In other words, he, as did his .colleagues, spoke of real things, their influence on culture and what they reflected. These men took educational knowledge and applied it to the so-called real world. They made sense out of the numbers and facts often drilled into students' brains throughout college life. Heinegg noted the in- tenninglipg of professors from the various disciplines at this Wellesley session. The pure science .people and humanities people were \all in the same boat.\ Technology, in effect, was new to everyone. The science professors understood the formulas. involved in the technology discussed, but were often new to their social im- plications. In turn, the humanist professors, often confused by the formUlas presented; could comprehend . the societal relationship. Over the past few years, said Heinegg, humanists have often felt \helpless or hostile\ toward the new technology. The Sloan Foun- dation hopes to eradicate these feelings. As to the session itself, Heinegg and Fairchild both found it successful. The \workshop is the greatest at- mosphere for broadenh'lg horiZons. It is a wonderful source of information for one really needs to rub elbows with the etperts in a field\ to un- derstand such topics, noted Fairchild. \People were trying very hard to make the best of the experiment.,; Fairchild also added that ''technological literacy was the undefined thing we were aU tcying to capture in our own way.\ What the out- collie will be of their seminar t;!an only_ b,~ .. obsel'Ved·tbroqgh Jts effects on Heinegg, Fairchild, and Burke. Professor Alan Taylor, director of the Sloan Foundation Grant at Union; said that \right now it (the · infonnation) is at the facUlty level.\ \The iaea,\ said Fairchild, \is to change what we do in the classroom.\ With time and effort this alteration will occur. In regard to this seminar's impact on Union, again,· this will entail time and con· sideration. Said Heinegg, \compared to other groups (at the conference) we were clearly ahead\ because of Union's engineering department. Lafayette is the only other college of the ten· which received the grant to have an engineering department such as Union's. \We (Union) have a kind of precedent for it in our F and E c;redit courses,\ added Heinegg, but Union still has a way to go. \Right now we don't have a course that says welcome to your technolo_gical world for everybody.\ . Although the conference's influence may not appear for a time, \it's a beginning,\ said Fairchild~ Heinegg is not quite sure how he will incorporate this knowledge into his classes as of yet, but Fairchild hopes to explore the possibilities during his sabbatical this winter and spring .. The project can really only be examined in its long term effects. \What it does down the line is the key point,\ said Heinegg. The idea is for \people to take this information back with them and try it on for size.\ Thanks to the Sloan Foundation this .chance has been awarded to Union. One note of interest is that a Colby-MIT-8loan Foundation conference was held at Colby College on October 21 and 22. The topic of discussion was \Computing and the Liberal Arts\. Ptofessor Alan Taylor was in attendance and he helped head one of the workshops. Chadwick indicated that the damage was caused by kicking or hitting parts of the cars with hard <>bjects, and walking over them. Witnesses reported seeing the vehicles kicked and someone pulling on the rear- view mirror. aothcars wel\e attacked. The white ·Chcysler, which is brari.d new this year, received a dented door and hood. The hood was popped back into place by a security employee: Also, the vandals scratched the wind- shield and broke a search light valued at appl\oximately $100 off the side of the car, Chadwick said. Headlights on one side of the Being drunk \shoUld not be justification for behavior of this nature, but people are begin- ning think that it is,\ Massa added. Administrators intend to take disciplinary action against anyone who is determined to have participated in this ac- tivity, and Security and the dean of student's office is ac- tively pursuing any lei(ds. Chadwick urges anyone with knowledge of the incident to contact him at the security and safety office, and says the in- formation can be given con- fidentially.

Page2 CONCORDIENS/S, October 27, 1983 .d .d .. . Gu1 . e .to A1. .1n Ca:reers By DIANNE PAVACIC Stuff Joanne Tobiessen, assistant dean of students and career development center director, set up a committee last spring to focus on improving the in· teraction of the academic and career planning programs at Union. The group is comprise~ of faculty from each academic division including Professors Craig, Patrik, Scaife, Tidmarch and Associate Dean Roth as liason to the Vice-President's Office. Tobiessen states that ''Faculty are key people who can· encourage self-awareness and career exploration by students.\ She adds, ''Career development is ·a complex endeavor in which ihoughtf~l academic planning can play an important role.\ . The final part. of the guide is a grid for the advisor to fill in each term as courses are completed by Uie advisee. Tbis ·grid will enable the professor and the student to see what academic requirements. are still needed, and what courses may help the student in choosing a ~particular career path. Summarizing, Tobiessen outlines that the guide. will first, help assess strengths and weaknesses, second, encourage exploration of career related goal~. third, increase· Joanne Tobiessen, assistant .Dean of Students While it is extremely im- portant that a high quality academic environment is fostered, the .members of the committee also believe that the College has a commitment to assist students in . their preparation for the world after ~ graduation. awareness of how certain abilities can be developed and fourth, encourage thoughtful selection· of courses and other Steinmetz Lecture ''A Growth of·Limits'' By LINDA M. RAFFAELE and AARON M. TOFFLER Staff The 51st Steinmetz Lecture was presented by Dr. Margaret N. Maxey on Tuesday, October 18, at Unions' Memorial Chapel. Maxey's topic was \America's Energy Odyssey: Between Entropy and Enterprise\. The Steinmetz Lecture Series was ·begun in 1925 in honor of Charles Proteus Steixunetz. The lecturers are generally scientists, engineers, and educators who are prominent in their respective fields. The lectures cover a ,wide spectrum of interests and are sponsored by the Schenectady section of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and Union. Maxey is director of the chair of free enterprise and visiting professor of electrical engineering at the University of Texas at Austin. She is a well- knowl' authority on ethical issues in science and engineering, and, in recent years, she has spoken and published extensively on present day energy needs and related ethical questions. Maxey believes that society should not hesitate to take productive risks with energy for the U.S. would not be nearly as technologically advanced had the early Americans not taken risks with industrialization. In building her argument, Maxey 1-efuted the popular notion that high technology is \robbing the future\ and \poisoning future generations''. She believes, \We live in a nuclear age ... we must get rid of false guilt, false goals, and false fears.'' Maxey stressed that when analyzing energy consumption, we must put' things into perspective. Although the United States, totaling 6 percent of the world's population, consumes 35 per- cent of the world's energy, we must also remember that 1 percent of the world's farmers reside iii the U.S. yet they e.x- port 15 percent of the world's ·food. As for the argument that high technology is ruining our natural resources, Maxey stated that the resource depletion in unindustrialized AHention All Hale House Patrons: -Dining Hours are as follows: Mon. ·Fri. Lunch 11 :30 a.m ... 1 p.m. Mon. a Fri. Dinner 5 p.m ... 6:30p.m. Hale House Closed Sat. and Sun. countries is .greater than that in industrialized countires. For example, two thirds of the forests in Africa have been rendered useless whereas this figure is much smaller in the United States. Maxey believes that the U.S. is \crying wolf\. She also believes that we are turning into a nation of hypochondriacs. Too many people are worried about the hazardous effects of nuclear energy. We are afraid that nuclear energy hasthe potential to become a major cause of cancer. Here Maxey points to a study by Dr. T.D. Lucky which showed that low levels of ex- posure to otherwise toxic elements can be beneficial. She believes that one day it will be proven that anything in excess can cause cancer. ~he notes that oxygen has been proven to cause tumors in fruit flies. In conclusion, Maxey feels that Americans lack education and comparison on the topic of energy. She believes that what the last twenty years have brought in the field of energy is analygous to an embryo in the womb. The embryo senses that it is using up its supply of food and oxygen. What it does not know·is that in the 9th month it will undergo a vast change. Our energy resources will also change. When we run out of energy on earth, we will develop new resources in space. Maxey pointed out, ''History teaches us that century after century, , there is a growth of limits. Just when we think we can not ex- pand our limits any further,. we find a way to do so.\ Our final frontier, according-to Maxey, lies in the colonization of space. Parasite-s Beware By JAY BARUCH News Editor For the winter term, 1984, Biology 138- Parasitology, taught by Prof. Styles, will· be open to non-biology majors as well as to students majoring in biology. Parasitology is being made available to non-biology majors. because parasitic diseases are prevalent in the world and all students should be aware' of them. Prof. Styles stated ihat, \in the jet set age in· which we live, when international travel is available to masses of people, parasitic diseases have assumed new importance. In the developing world, these diseases affect millions of people, many with multiple infections.\ As to the nature of the course, Prof. Styles stated that \an introduction to Parasitology has been designed to appeal to the non-biology major, pre- professional, engineering and other disciplines. It will in- vestigate the interaction of protozoa and worm parasites of medical and veterinary im- portance. It will include a munbet of relationships bet- ween parasitology and other disciplines such as ge.ographical medicine, economics, history, socilogy, and public health. The life cycles, physiology, symptoms, pathology, control, and the immune responses of the host will be examined. In addition, the role of parasites in nutrition, poverty, sanitation, and politics as well as the cost of the eradication- of parasites in developing countries will be discussed.\ Prof. Styles has taught this course to non-majors as parf of the term abroad program in Bogota, Colombia. He stated that on the whole, regardless of their major, the students did well. The only difference in the course structure to distinguish the biology majors from the students from other disciplines is that only_ the bjology majors are required to Participate in the laboratory part of the course. The non-biology majors will write a term paper and participate in seminars in lieu of fulfilling the laboratory requirements. In addition, though lecture will be the same, the non-biology majors will use texts that are not as technical and complex. Prof. Styles feels that the course is an excellent op- portunity for students in other disciplines to fulfill a \C\ requirement and become knowledgeable on a subject that is so widespread and important today. Those students in- terested · in Parasitology can pick up a card during Preregistration, which begins November 7. An ad hoc committee has been formed to 'evaluate the candidacy of Professor Bruce . Connolly (Library) for tenurability, Members of the .committee are Professor Finkelstein (History, Chairperson), Professor Evans (Library), Professor Steckler (Arts), ahct Professor Werner - (Chemistry). Anyone wishing to give testimony pertinent to Professor Connolly's candidacy can do so by contacting the Chairperson for an intetview ap.poi.ntment or by submitting the testimony in writing to any committee member. Toward this goal, the com~ mittee. developed a \Student Advising Guide\ to be used by all faculty when working with. students. Its fundamental basis as stated on the cover, is that \students can more clearly articulate possible academic and career goals when they know their strengths and. in- terests, and ·learn what Union has to offer-both in and out of the classroom.\ · · The first segment of the guide is a self~assesstnent segment where questions stimulating discussion are raised as to the student's favorite ac- complishments, his abilities and occupational interests, what education and experience the field requires, and how the student can develop further: Second, a list of skills vital for future success are presente~. Included are:· analysis-critieal thinking, speaking and writing, research-investigation, inte- rpersonal and quantitative skills. By completing this section, the advisor and student will be able to see which areas need further development. .Ait A TT study shows humanities and social science majors are strong in interpersonal and admministrative skills with their greatest weakness in the quantitative · area. Math, science and engineering students have strong quan- titative skills but are weak in administrative and · in- terpersonal skills. Once students recognize where their weaknesses lie, they can pursue activities in- and-out of the classroom to develop the ability. For . example, writing skills can be · developed not only through research papers and homework assignments but by con~ tributing to the Idol, the Garnet Review and other publications on campus. pursuits. · · · The committee realizes that for certain students who already have their future goals in mind, the f\8culty and Career Development Center staff need only reaffirm these students' observations about themselves. However, students who are still exploring need advice about curricular choices, career options and how the two relate. The advising shifts from the narrow question of ''What courses do you w.ant. to taker' to \What do you want to do with yourself and what skills and knowledge will you need to do it?\ The guide has been distributed to all departments and the committee hopes it will be incorporated into the academic advising program. Prof~ssor Craig of the elec- trical engineering and com- puter science departments admits that \I coll.ldn't do_ too much with the guide in Sep- tember but I'll be using it when the students preregister for winter and spring term When I have a little more time-1 won't feel so rushed.\ Professor Tidmarch of the political science department feels that \Only time will tell how effective the guide will be.\ He · also stresses that the greatest value will probably be seen with juniors and seniors in years to come since they will have been exposed to the guide during their freshman and sophomore years. It will get them thinking· about their career paths sooner. Con- sequently they will be more prepared for <the job market when they graduate. Students who wish to explore career related concerns further are urged to speak with a c~eer counselor in the Ca,reer · Development Center. . ' Tradition Fills Brown Ct;tp By JUDIE STEINHARDT . Staff The Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy is awarded every year to the fraternity which excells in scholarship, intramurals, extracurricular participation, charitable work, and leadership during the preceding year., The cup was established by Phi Sigma Delta in 1961. It commemorates its namesake, who was a sophomore at Union arid a brother of Phi Sigma Delta when he was killed in the tong Island Railroad accident on Thanksgiving Eve,. 1950, on his way horn.e from school. Stephen Brown was a pre-med student who was to graduate in 1953. The cup is . awarded each Homecoming Weekend ·to the fraternity that meets the requireme.l)ts specified by Phi Sigma Delta when it originally created the award in Brown~s honor. This year the cup was awarded to Phi Gamma Delta; last year Sigma Chi was the recipient. The way the winner is chosen is through a point system: each fraternity is awarded a certain number of points· for variotis activities in which it par· ticipated.. The fratefnity with the most points wins the cup. Every activity that each brother is involved in, is worth a certain amount of points: for example, varsity sports are worth three . points, while the Outing Club is worth one point. The points are totaled and divided by the amount of brothers in the hous.e. Charities are calculated by adding up the total of funds . raised by the house, also divided by the number of brothers. The grade point average of each ho~e is also figured in the scoring, as well as the total nwnber of intramural points scored, divided by the number of brothers. The officers of the Inter-fraternity Council add up the points as submitted by each fraternity, and determine the winner. The winning fraternity retains possession of the cup for one year only. If a fraternity ever wins it three years in a row, it gets to keep the trophy permanently. The cup was created so Union would always remember Stephen P. Brown, but every year it also h~lps to motivate current fraternity brothers into becoming more active on campus. - ,, E~ 30 '( the. pres Fellc are and.1 intez obli~ whiC end gro\\ Th. a ceo brocl with mig I thor< teres abilil Am.e: pers comi infor: concc selec ticip~ since Seve a war Pre Chai Depa Wats' Mart' the ic to pr inteU indep acadE m1tte fa cull a var Marte Evav Hugg Klein M.i-1-i Engi1 Smitli Mart' \sphE biasili Stm the < narro propo most into a inord stude !etten the st recor( CO mill many Union selecti by m tervie· and lc amon~ bers. One compE comm a 'II be ca ~~ co U.r m1 thl gr. pli ha . l we n01 for ( no: ($1 PIE COl

CONCORDIENSIS, October 27, 1983 .. Watso~ Fellowship \'The Opportunity To Live Out a Lifelong Fantasy'' IJyROBERT BASSIN Staff summer before they're due.\ The Union deadline for proposals ts usually sometime in early October. Interested persons should contact a member of the Union Watson Selection Committee any time during the academic year. The finalists will be notified of the Each year approximately 25- 30 Union seniors compete for the . chance to receive a prestigious Thomas. J .. Watson Fellowship. If they win, they are awarded $10,000 to travel and explore a subject of special interest to them. There are no obligations, nQ thesis ·papers- which must be handed in at the end of the year, juSt personal gr9wth, learning and maturity. mode·ofjudge to that of mentor. Along with other members of the faculty,. it works with the finalists to improve and make more concise what Marten termed the ''first working drafts.'' After toiling in the revis~on of their pt()posals, fonnal applications are then submitted to the Watson Foundation for selection of the wtnners. A representative of the foundation ·also visits ...,the campus in order to conduct · interviews with the four finalists. foundation's Q:ecisions by Mar-tha Huggins, Professor of Socioiogy March 15, 1984. The . aim of the program, according to the founc:bition~s. brochure, is to proVide students with ''a break in which they might explore with thoroughness a particular in- terest, test their aspiration and abilities, view their lives and American society in greater perspective, and, con- comitantly, develop a more informed sense of international concern.'' Union is one of 50 select schools which has par- ticipated in the competition · since its inception in 1968. Seventy fellowships are award~d each year. Professor Harry Marten, Chairman of the English Department, chairs the Union Watson Selection Committee. Marten states that states that the idea behind the program is to proVide students with \an intellectual' challenge through independent study rather than academic study.\ The . com- mittee is comprised of six Union faculty members, representing a variety of disciplines (Harry Marten, English; Ruth Anne Evans, · Library; Martha Huggins, Sociology; Douglass Klein, Economics; Frank Mi-1-Hlo, Mechanical Engineering; and Jordan Smith, English). This, .. says Marten, prevents any one \sphere of influence\ from biasirig the selections. · Students submit proposals to the committee who in turn narrow down the field to the six proposals they feel exhibit the most promise. Factors taken into account by the committee in order of importance are: the student's Watson proposal, letters of recommendation and the student's overall academic record. From among the six the committee must then select as many. as four students to be Union's Watson finalists. This selection process is carried out by means of half-hOur in- terviews with the candidates and long hours of deliberation among the committee mem- bers. Once the intra-campus competition is completed the committee changes from . its For what types of proposals' does the Union committee~ and Watson Foundation look? Accordingto Martha Huggins of the Sociology Department, they look for proposals that demonstrate \a joy ·and· curiosity of th.e · subject, something \that ·the person knows about because they've {teen involved in it.\ .Past Union winners have explored: Mid:.. wifery in Europe: Sweden and Italy, Michele Beaulieu ( '81) ; Cultural and Economic Factors Influencing Engineering Career Choices: Spain and Columbia, Tamara Wood ('82); and last year's winner; the s~udy of Management of National Parks and WildUfe Sanctuaries: India, Nepal and Sri Lanka, J.ohn . Titus. Among those competing for the distinction this year are: Susan Cohen who hopes to e:xplore the influence of con- temporary American dance on European dance, both con- temporary and ballet, in England and Italy; Barry Gilman who wants to study choruses in different regions of Austria, Germany, and Swit- zerland to see how local dialects affect the characteristics of the music; Robin Molella whose proposal is to study the relationships between children and between children and adults in various regions of Italy and Switzerland; and William Unterborn who hopes to study the National Theatre of Great Britain, the historical, political, economic, and social reasons for its existence. Asked about the possibility of her winning a Watson Fellowship, Cohen responded, \It's the opportunity to live out a lifelong fantasy. The person who wins the Watson Fellowship, said Professor Huggins, is someone who ''thinks ahead, talks ahead: meets with 'members of the committee ahead and spends some time preparing his proposal. Students should start thinking about their topics and start researching them the 1983-84 WINTER TERM PREREGISTRATION NOTICE Preregistration materials for winter term 1983·84 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Silliman Hall, beginning Monday, November 7th. Required permission cards for desi9nated courses will be available Wednesday, ~ovember 9th. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the winter· term, except for· graduating seniors, must immediately give notice ·Of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students, Carnegie Hall. Potential December graduates should inform the O.ffice of the Registrar of their plans to .finish thei.r studies at the end ot fall term, if they have not already done so. · Students should confer with Flaculty Advisors during the week of November 7th-11th. Some departments may an- nounce special arrangements for advising. Plei;lse be alert for st:rch announcements. Course request forms are due at the Of.fice of. the Registrar not later than Monday; November 14th. A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THE~EAFTER! Please !Je on time, even 'though your schedvle may be in- c?mplete! Greek Relatio.ns Strained ByDOUGLANOON EdUor-in-Chtef Incidents occurring Sep- tember 25 and 28 have resulted in suspended party privileges for three Lenox Road frater- nities. According to Assistant Dean· of Students Robert Massa, several Sigrna. Chi brothers entered the Delta Chi house through a barroom window in the early morning hours of Sunday, September 25. They had in their possession.,an axe, which they . h~d' unsuccessfully used to gam entrance to the barroom through a door, prior to employing the window. · The axe, along with a two-by- four, caused damage to the locked DC door and knocked off the doorkn<>b, making access impossible. The SC brothers removed a \Natural Ught\ beer sign and clock, which they alleged DC members had stolen from their house. Later that morning, at about 3:30 a.m., SC brothers were discussing the incident with members of Delta Upsilon, who claimed that they also had a be,er sign stolen, as well as a tape deck and some liquor. Suspecting that DC nad taken these things also, the SC and DU brothers moved up to the SC house, where the SC' s let the DU' s through a third floor fire door into the DC house, at ap- proximately 4 a.m.,-Massa said. The six DU brothers questioned members of DC about the property, DC denied having it, and a scuffle ensued. One DC brother agreed to take the six. downstairs to the barroom to look, thereby ending -the pushing ami shoving in- cident. When DU's belongings FallFund Drive By LYNN HAl\10 Staff On November 2 and 3 many students will be participating in a new- fall phone-a-thon. The Don Petis, ann.uat fund director purpose is to raise funds from alumni, parents, and others that have supported Union in the past. The annual fund is .used to contribute to the college's annual operating budget. This budget includes faculty salaries, s.cholarships, and current operating expenses. Sophomore Election Runoff Results Eric (olsman 92 votes • 5'2% Dave Martin 84 votes • 47.5% John Garfunkel ' (write~in') 1 vote • .6% Total no. vo.ters: 177 Last year the annual fund raised 1.8 million dollars which accounted for 8.3 percent of the total operating budget. This year the overall goal of the project_ is set at 2 million dollars. For the past ten years there has always been a spring phone- ~ a-thon, but this is the first year ~ Union is holding this fall in- :0 stallment. Don Petis, annual a:~ fund director, and his associate a Debbie MacFail, Director of ;: Annual Giving Programs, agree .o that .phone-a-thons generate ~ greater response from sup- a porters than do mass mailings. Thus, through the annual spring and new fall phone-a-thons, Petis hopes to raise more funds for Union this year. Petis and MacFail urge students to become involved in the phone-a-thon. This is one manner which enables students to aid in fund raising. There is presently a student phone-a- thon conunittee representing each of the residence halls and class years. This group will help organize and run the entire project. There are sign up sheets in all of the residence buildings on campus including frater- nities and sororities. Off- campus students and teams are also encouraged to participate. However, there does exist a limited quantity of phones available·so team numbers will have to be restricted where necessary. for applications and further information, students can visit or dill the annual fund office in Lamont House at x6174. This added autumn phone-a- thon should give more students the opportunity to participate in this activity. Also, in calling alumni directly following Homecoming Weekend, Petis believes that positive responses will be greater. The phone-a· thon should prove to be fun fot everyone involved while in turn helping to support the school. were not located, the brothers left DC and went home. By the time security officers arrived, the incident had ended. Assistant Dean Robert Massa met with SC and DC presidents early the following week, who said they would attempt to keep relationships between the two fraternities under control. SC agreed to pay for.all damages to the DC house and return the beer sign, which was not the one stolen froin them. That Tuesday evening, September 28, a hostile verbal exchange took place between SCbrothers loitering outside the DC house and DC brothers who were inside. Eventually, the two groups began to grapple out- side, according to Mammola, and one DC brother emerged from his house with a kitchen knife. The knife was quickly seized by members of sc. Another DC brother inside the house, fearing the situation would get out of hand, telephoned the Schenectady Police Department, which sent patrols to the scene. Meanwhile, Union security officers had quelled the disturbance, and the Schenectady Police saw no need to intervene. Dean Massa had also been summoned to the scene. Dean Mammola points out that according to the Student Conduct Code, \ . . . recognized student organizations, including fraternities and sororities, will .... -e subject to . . . disciplinary sanctions when members of the organization, acting in concert, engage in or sanction such behavior outlined in conduct code regulations by failing to take action to prevent it, or when it can be shown that the organization provided the impetus or probable cause for such behavior.\ (p. 39, Student Handbook). Deans Massa and Mammola believe the actions of these fraternities did represent the Greek organizations as a whole, rather than isolated actions of specific members. Both in- cidents were characterized by groups of fraternity brothers acting in concert, the deans determined. Party privileges for the entire year have been suspended for SC, fall and winter terrr.s for DC, and the remainder of fall term 'for DU. Mammola stresses that his main goal is to improve relations between these houses, and hopes to convince the brothers that it is in their best interest to \learn to live together.\ \I believe that all the frater- nities now understand that initially silly incidents could have led to tragic con- sequences,\ Mammola added. \The brothers in the three fraternities are much better people than they showed on these nights. They are deter- mined to improve their relations and the probationary period is intended to help them.\

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, October 27, 1983 CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS Sigma XI Lecture Richard RYnes, M.D. and professor of medicine at Albany Me.dical College, will speak at Umon Wednesday, Nov. 2, on \Autoimmune DiSeases.\ The lecture, sponsored by the coll~ge chapter of Sigma Xi will begm at 4:30 p.m. in Social Sciences Building Room 016. The public is invited to att.end. Rynes, a member of the New York Academy of Sciences, has recently published numerous scientific articles on · autoim- mune diseases, especially lupus erythematosus. His·lecture will emphasize how such diseases may be produced and will cite ~xamples of this category of illness. Novelist Paule Marshall to Speak Paule Marshall will visit Union on October 28. She will lecture on recent fiction at 3:30 p.m. in the Lower Hale House Lounge and read from her work at 8:00 p.m. in Lower Hale House Lounge. A review in the New York Times described her novel, The Chosen Place, The Timeless People, as \one of the four or five most impressive novels ever written by a black American.\ A New Yorker reviewer has said that she brings to her work \an in- stinctive understanding, a generosity, and a free humor that combine to fonn a styl~ remarkable for its courage its color, and its natural cont~ol.'' The author of The Cbosen Place, 'Ib~ Timeless People Brown Girl, Brown Stones, Soui Clap Hands and Sing, Prafsesong for the Wjdow, she has taught Creative Writing at Yale, Columbia University, University of Massachusetts, Boston, and most recently the University of Iowa. She is the first visitor in this year's Hale Writers Forum, SPQnsored by . the English Department. Mountebanks to petform \Bus Stop\ - \Bus Stop\ a romantic comedy by William Inge, Will be presented by the Union student dramatic group \Moun- tebanks\ November 3-5 and 10- 12 in the Nott Memorial. Per- fonnances begin at 8 · p.m: each night. Tickets will be available beginning Oct. Tl in the Nott Memorial Ticket Office, and are $2.50 for students, $3.50 for faculty and staff, and $4.50 for the public. The play will be directed by Carol King assisted by Kathi Cohen. Both women are area actresses. The cast includes: sophomore Melinda Phillips as Elrna Duckworth, a naive waitress at the diner; senior Adam Storke as Carl the bus driver; junior · Mitch Bernstein as Dr. Gerald Lyman, a fancy-free professor of philosophy; and junior Jon Skinner as Sheriff Will Masters. All four are veteran Moun- tebanks performers. Also performing are newcomers senior Steve Strunsky as young cowboy Bo Decker; freshman Adam Rosman as Virgil Blessing, ~ older and wiser cowboy and guardian to Bo; freshman Shauna Bavar as 'Cherie, a small-town nightclub singer with big dreams; and freshman Eliza Setel as Grace, the worldly owner of the diner. The play is set in the mid- 1950s in a diner about 30 miles outside of Kansas City. The action begins when a group of travelers gets stranded during a snowstorm. The plot thickens as the professor takes interest in the young waitress and the young cowboy seeks to run ·off with the singer. Haircut I Design Waxing Perms . Make-Up Maranville to chair Hudson-Mohowk Assn. of Colleges -Jack Maranville, executive associate to the president, has been elected chairman of the board of trustees for Hudson- Mohawk Association of cOlleges & Universities. He succeeds Professor Earle Flatt of Siena College in the post. Also elected were Sister Josephine Reynolds, dean for academic .affairs at Maria College, as vice-chairwoman, and Dr .. Robert Carroll, director, Division of Allied Health, Albany Medical College, as treasurer. Maranville has been- a member of the board.of trustees for four years, previously serving as vice-chainnail. \I am pleased to accept · this honor/' Maranville said. \The Hudson-Mohawk Association is a wonderful example of ·the ability of area colleges to work together in common interest an4 for the public good.\ 'lbe Association is composed of the 14 public and ln· dependent, two year, four-year and graduate institutions located in this area .. These in· stitutions make the region a major national center for higher education, with nearly 60,000 students enrolled on 18 campuses in 750 program areas of study. The college members of the Association are: Albany College of Pharmacy, Albany Law School, Albany Medical College, The College of Saint Rose, Empire State College, Hudson Valley Community College, Maria College, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Russell Sage College-Junior College of Albany, Schenectady Com- munity College, Siena College, Skidmore College, State University of New York at Albany and Union College. Cofour Body Wrap$ Facials NaU Lengthening .. Our designers have been-trained by. SASSOON of London and JINGLES. N\ Y .C. . . . Gooding Skin Systems · . 322 State St., Schenectady, N.y. 1_ ........ ...... Student Forum In Session By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Associate Features EdltGr · The Union Student Forum held another session this ipast Monday, October 24, Several new issues were discussed at this most recent meeting. As is the usual procedure, the minute:s from. the last forum meeting were distributed. Following this were the fur- nishing of the committee reports. Barbara Rodgers and Jacques Simone of the Student Affairs Council (SAC) reported on recent activity of the SAC. The main topic of discUSllion was the food service issue. Simone provided information on the dining hall expenses- expenditures, whole Rodgers investigated the price increases atthe skellar. Director of Food · Services Jan Gray has been formally requested to appear at next week's meeting (Thur- sday, Oct. 27, 4 p.m. in Con- ference Room A in· Carnegie). A decision is expected .soon. Generated concern seems· to focus upon the lack of informing the student body before making the price increases. Jarred Squires provided a report of the committee on committee's activities for the past week. They include an . examination of the Crew Club's, College Democrat's, and Women's Rugby Club's con- stitutions. In addition, the deadline for application for the Planning and .Priorities and ISC rep positions have been ex- tended. Vice President for Finance Ben Hecksher presented his weekly committee report. At their past meeting, a possible increase in the student ac .. tivities fee was discussed. Though this major issue was discussed in depth, a decision was tabled until the next meeting. .TJ:le recently fomie<i Crew Club submitted a request for funding. Though this initial figure was rejected by the finance conunittee as being too high, it does not mean that additional figures will not be considered. WRUC requested a transfer of funds from its swmner employment fund in which to pay students to update its computer library. This too was rejected. The last major issue to be discussed was the giving .of free subscriptions to the parents of Concordiensis -editors. Tbo1Jgh this issue was tabled. by the finance com• mittee, it was the subject of _later discussion by the forum. All other conunittees (IFC, AAC, and the trustees) reported things as being ''status quo\- meetings. were held, but no new business WB$ reported. The reactiviation of the skellar bDard was discussed-a committee of the deans of students, fonnn president, v.p for finance, two student representatives, and ·a presidential. apointee . which \governs\ the Rathskellar. Selection of student representatives will occur later through <JOC selection procedtll'es. President of the Student F()rum Win ·Thurlow stated that h:e will be meeting with Dean of Students Joseph Mammola soon, and will discuss the i:3sue with him at that time. The.issue will then be brought \ll> again at a future· forum meeting. \New Business\ became the next focus cf fortnn discussion. · In an effort to get the student body more involved and better informed, Shari Midonneck, j-unior trustee, proposed a motion in wllich members of the Student ForUill would visit the various d()Jlll1itory ·floors, and report upon tile forum and its activities. .A :vote was taken with 9 yes and 4 abstentions. left to he discussed is the scheduling of floor .m~etings, the assigning of floors, and deciding on exactly what points to cover at these meetings. TomSmith, asenior at Union, propo~ed a motion which for- mally criticizes the vandalism whic-h occurred this past Friday, Oct. U, outside of Phi Sigma Kappa's World War III party (two security cars were vandalized). This motion was universally accepted by the forum. It appears below. No further issues were discussed. As for next week's agend~, the following issues are to be discussed: The proposed student activities fee increase, the Skellar :beard, and Con- cordiensis editorial sub- scriptions. · · WHEREAS vandalism of two cars used :by the Union College Department of Security and Safety occurred following a party on October 21, and WHEREAS such . senseless destruction cannot pass unnoticed by mature and responsible menbers ·of the •. ~ Union College student body, be it hereby RESOLVED that the Union College Student Forum unanimously and publicly condemns tile malicious destruction of campus property, be it RESOLVED that the.Student Forum fully encourages · any student with infonnati()n concerning this par- ticular incident contact Chris Chadwick at the Office of Security and Safety;. . ~r-·••••••.•••••••••••••'1 I . · I I . I . I · mountebanksl presents: 1 BUS STOP I I I •• I I .11. . I 1 w. 1 1a·m 1nge. . · · I I . . 1 Nov. 3,4,5 & 10,11,12 J I . . . . 1:•••························ .. . I E l \ o: a OJ b. tl tl H UJ ol T .. rr. N y, 01 til

CONCORDIENSIS, October 27, 1983 Page5 FEATURES Plzza Pub Expands Menu >- .:£ (f) \\ 0 .... rtl' IXl c: 0 .., >- .a 0 .... 0 .c:: c. By BARRIE STAHL and DEBBIE WIENER \Pizza Etc.,\ the newest food establishment on campus, which opened in 1980, is not just employees. All students who apply for a job are considered, although financial aid ap- plicants are generally given first priority. AU the food served is , \Pizza Etc.\ the newest food establishment on campus is run entirely by Union CC)IIege students · \pizza\ alone~ Although a part prepared fresh on campus by of the food service, many people students. The new menu, which are unaware that this consists of pizza bagels, sand- organization is completely run wiches, hot pretzels, and by students·. popcorn, are students' inm · \Pizza Etc.,\ which is under novative ideas. The campus the direction of Gary Salerno, delivery service !§ another idea the manage~ of the Dutchman's reated by the students. With an Hollow Pub, is particularly order of $3.75 or more, you can unique because its .staff consists have the food delivered of Union College students. anywhere on campus after 5 There are five student p.m. . · managers: Robin Rosenbawn, Nat Harris, Dan Coffey, Chuck Venezia, and Austin Ransom, one of whom is on duty at all times. There are no full time \Pizza Etc.\ has new ex- tended hours. It is open from 1:30 p.m. until 11:30 Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and MUNCH--OUT AT DG! Saturday night-Sunday morning 1 :OP a.rn.-4:.00 a.m. Pancake and sausage breakfast to raise money for sight conservation and aid to the blind. Tickets on sale during the week or at the door. DON'T· MISS ITI RECORD HOP RETURNS!!! Come celebrate the Record Hop/s return to the Dutch Hollow Pub tonight! Dance to your requests from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the spacio1,1s, and newly remodeled pub. The Union College ''Rockn'RoU\ Pizza Pub present: Pizza, Etc. Now Featuring: Hot Sausage Subs • $2~00 Pizza Bagels • .40...90 Hot Pr~tzels • .40 • 3/1.00 This Week's Sp,ecials: Dellv8Jry Special 370-6060 Saturday Special 25¢ Medium Sodas with any delivery order-·5 p.l'l}.·ll p.m. One coffee and your choice of . doughnut tor only 50¢ Open 1 : 30-11 : 30 p; m. 1:30-12:30 a.m. sun., Mon.,, Wed., Thurs. Tues., Fri., Sat. Dutchman's Reservations taken Mon-Thurs .. Night! Normal business hours onlY! Sunday, 'and it is open from 1 :30 p.m. until 1 a.m. on Tuesday, Friday and Saturday. The pizza pub itself offers many specials, in particular a weekly one. For example, coffee and donuts are available for very low prices during the football season. Another service offered by ''Pizza Etc .• '' is the Dutchmen's Night Dinner, This is,offered by the pubevery Saturday night by reservation. Reservations can be made Monday through Thursday · during regular business hours. All students can obtain this dinner with their meal cards. Those students who take 19 meals per week, in- cluding freshmen, are· entitled to this specjai dinner bi- monthly, and all other students on the other meal plans can particip~te once a month . Students with cash can also participate. The pizza pub is expanding their menu to include hot and cold subs and more. All suggestions are always · welcome. This year \Pizza Etc.\ is doing beeter than ever before, so don't c~ Pappa Cicco's or Domino's next time you get hungry, call \Pizza Etc.\ Braxton \Bird\ LeCroy is the newest addition to Union's Campus Ministry office. Aiming to Help ByLORIOL~NSTEIN . New this year to the Campus Ministry Office is Braxton \Bird\ LeCroy, a delegate representing the Southern Baptist Conference. Bird (as he likes to be called) moved to the area from Salem, Alabama, where he spent three years as a pastor. He is now working in the areE:J at various schools. Besides Union, each week LeCroy visits SUNY Albany, RPI, and St. Rose. LeCroy considers himself Oxfam America · someone who can be a friend and also serve as a minister to students. \It helps to have a horne away from home. Here you are, first taken away from the home you know all your life, and it helps to have •someone to talk to.\ He also seeks to help students to join local churches if they are interested. Student needs are of par- ticular importance to LeCroy . He is hoping to set up a ministry according to these needs; to offer a different dimension and add to what already exists. He is at Union on Thursdays from approximately 10 a.m. until 2 p.m., if anybody needs anything. The Campus Ministry Office is located on 3rd floor Carnegie. Anyone can just walk in, but it is better to make an appointment. If you need to talk on a day other than Thursday, that can be arranged alSO'. LeCroy offers his home phone number for such necessities: 767-9555. By ELLEN LAWTON \I didn't have any .breakfast and walked around half dizzy. The daze of hunger Is worse than that of alcohol. The daze of alcohol makes us stittg, but that of hunger makes us shake. I know how horrible it is to only have air in the stomach.\-- Child of the Dark, The Diary of Carolina Maria de Jesus. In an effort to call attention to the problem· of world hunger, the Campus Ministry will be working closely with students and other organizations throughout fall term to organize a day of fasting at Union College. Union will be one of over 2300 groups participating in the Oxfam America Fast for a World Harvest. The food 01oney saved by students and 'Graduate -studies in ~ Biomedical Research Basic Medica·l Science Department; Active Research Progr.ams, Seeking Qualified Applicants Tuition and Stipen~ Support Available For Further In- formation Contact: --- Graduate Committee Department of PhysiolOgy Albany Medical College Albany, N.Y. 1220$ (518·445·5651) faculty not eating for a day will be donated to support Oxfam America's self-help develop- ment projects in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. Why fast? It is seen as an educational tool that helps well- fed Americans realize the day to day agony people of im- poverished nations must en- dure. Oxfam America is a non- profit, non-sectarian development agency based in Boston, MA. It funds grassroots organizations overseas which work on more than 150 projects in 33 countries. This year's fast money will help refugees in Central America, Somalia, and Southern Africa; small farmers in Zimbabwe, Se.negal, and Kampuchea; women craft workers in India and Bolivia; herders in Sub-Saharan Africa and Somalia. The money helps to train health care promoters in remote areas, repairs wind- mills in Mozambique, and funds the printing of literacy materials in Mali. Oxfam America needs your assistance to make Union College's Fast for a World , Harvest a successful, enfightening experience. The projected date of the Fast is Thursday, January 19. If you would like to participate in its organization, or if you just want some more information on Fast for a World Harvest, please come to our meeting Tuesday, Nov. 1, at 7:30 p.m. in the Fourth Floor Lounge in Car- negie Hall. Although LeCroy is a Southern Baptist, he em- phasizes that he will be working with all students. His con- vention thought that it needed a person on campus, since there has never been a Southern Baptist representative in the area. The Southern Baptists are the largest Protestant denomination in the world, but they have not been in the Northeast for 25 years. He hopes that the name Southern Baptist does not limit or restrict the'ministry. \I believe we have a lot to offer.\ LeCroy's goal for the future is to have a full time represen- tative on every campus· in fhe area. This however, is a dream, and a long way down the road. This religious sect is still new here and it is going to take a little while for tftings to build up. For now, LeCroy simply wants to introduce himself to the Union campus and urge anyone who needs anything to come and see him. Discover the magic of good books • THE OPEN DOOR 128-136 Joy Street Downi:own Schenectady .:346-2719 Books • Gifts • Posters • Pottel'\l by Rose Catalano

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, October 27. /983 FEATURES Union Muskets Retrieved By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Associate Features Editor Union College has always prided itself upon its h~orical origins. The Nott Memortal and Chester Arthur's statue are both visible indications of this. One man who has devoted himself to the research and preservation of such historically imp<irtant objects is Biology Professor Carl George. Professor George's latest project of interest concerns the Union Muskets~Black powder rifles which were originally produced for the college in 1826. According to the former U.S. Militia Law, aU able bodied men needed to be outfitted With or have access to a firearm, complete with 1 lb of pow~er and rifle shot. This law, which was in effect during the 1800's, also required the hOlding of periodic drills. In ~esponse to this ordinance, Umon College had (at least) seventy-four flint lock rifles manufactured. Professor Jackson (of the garden's fame) was the first assigned drill officer. Rep~rts of regular student trammg drills can be found in the college records. Union's involvement in the militia continued past the Civil War .(1861) where records of expenditures for t.h~ _Zouares- ·the name of the militia group, have been found. In addition, there is mention of the Zouares as iate as 1889, in the annual college catalog: \Military instruction is required during the freshman and sophomclre years and voluntary thereafter, and counts as any other work in the college course. Instruction U1 depth consists of drill in the school of soldier, company ~d battalion, s~h and. ~ill, target practice and military signalling.\ However, as time passed, the Union Militia was dissolved and interest in the muskets was lost. Little information seems to be The Newman Club is sponsoring a Newman ''Rebirth'' Celebration Sunday 1 October 301 . 1983 with a mass at 12 noon in Memorial Chapel. The mass will · be celebrated by Father Pat 1 and will be followed by brunch at 1:00 p.m. in the Old Chapel Dining Room. * All those on meal plan, please bring meal cards. If you don't have a meal card, pick up a ticket in Sister Joan's Office/This ticket will admit you to the br nc Posters Godiva Chocolates Kites • Teddy Bears Open 10:30·5:30 Thurs. to 8:30 164 Jay St. Schenectady, NT 12305 Phone: 518·374·2103 available en the rifles up until recently, when one of these guns was found in the private collection of Mr. Willis Barshied (a collector of materialS). With private donations from the Friends of Union, the college then bought the gun and has placed it in a display case in Robert Massa's office. . Besides Union's recent · acquisition of the one rifle (yia Carl George), a search. has commenced to locate the other existing guns. So far, an ad- ditional three other muskets have been located in the country. Carl George's interest in the history of Union is not limited to the Union muskets. He is also researching other projects such· as renovation of the Nott Memorial, and reconditioning of the portrait of DeWitt Clin- ton. Prof George comments on his endeavors: \Union has an extraordinary history. The college needs to accentuate these details--i.e. The Nott Memorial, the Whipple Bridge .. A proper understanding .of the college. past will inspire us for a fruitful futW'e. In addition, this is· something we ( st11dents, faculty, and administration) can all participate in.\ Lastly, Profess.or George conunented on his next project endeavor-the reconditioning of the Clinton portrait: '\Olistoo ts a necessary project, for the portrait is in need of repair. Clinton represented the ultimate in multifaceted in- dividuals. As a New York State governor and Erie Canal Historian, he was the key example of the liberally educated individuals.\ By NORMAN BIRNBACR Features Editor Emeritus and. STEVE BENSON Student-:at·Lar:ge Dear Dr. Bimbacb, Look, I'm really sorry. I meant to write to you sooner, but X had- trouble getting inside the mailroom. Each time I walk by, I feel like waiting to board Noah's Ark. (lt seems.to take 40 days to get. inside.) So I fligUred that il l couldn't get inside, I wasn't going to write to you. I d~cided I was going to wait until you wrote first; but I love seeing - my name in print, Catch you later, · signed, Name 'withheld upon request, Dear Name Withheld, ,r I suppose it took you so long to \' J enter because you need t~o of a kind to get into the Ark !lnd you coUldn't fiild another Jackass. Dear Dr. Blrnbach, I can't believe you! How .dare you call my friend a jacka:;s.! ! ! He open~d his heart to yo~, desperately needing so~eone m which to confide, and you- you- insensitive, seltist .. (censored)!! You're supposed to help people, so how can you jtl$tify your . . . . ·. ' . . actions, you creeo.. signed, A Person with Moral ~tegrlty Dear Name withheld above, I guess I was wrong about not . fmding another jackass. . a1 Tl 0 u th te it. al m eB ar bE d(l pu Tl ofJ th UI da la1 SCI re: pe trE th• 1 pe1 thi be w11 to If i sh• tro be~ I fin COl \st bill I ar<: (th mo ' res alu sur rea 'I cou anc jus1 A are Lel las1 and cle~ T Bei divl still thi:s p ren bet mo1 can big. 111 hav, not. Tl ofsi duri

! CONCORDIENSIS, October 27, 1983 Page? Olnmrbirnsis LETTERS r::=::====· :=:;;:=========~,,. A Letter __ ,___,____Foundnl ~~ llnion CollfWt 1877 .--------- , Image Dented Academic excelleni!e, dedication ta achievement 1 athletic accomplishment, pride, and intelligence .. These are all characteristics associated with Union Colleg.e~ · . .Unfortunately, another trait is creeping its way into Union's profile: vandalism. A disturbing amount of this ~ctivity has taken place .Qn campus since the ~erm began, and it is time something wasdQne to stop lt. . To The Edl~rs: Let me take this opportunity . to publicly commend ·the Conet)rdlensJs on its. excellent coverage of Student Forum meetings. Your concise and ~ccurate reporting petfonns an . mvaluabl~ service to the cQllege commumty. An informed ·constituency is vital to the · functioning o·f effective goverilment. Keep up the good · work. Wm Thurlow Student Forum President A' I letters to the editor must be· typed and received by Con- cordiensis before 3. p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld .upon request. Concordy Needs Writers! ;16155 On homecoming weekend, the . weekend when alumni are supposed to be impressed by the old alma mater, vandals struck the computer center in the early morning hours .. Two terminals were damaged and the system was down for a period, possibly N~ws From Washington I By JACK ANDERSON and JOE SPEAR bec-ause of this. · On that same weekend, windows were broken and a W ASIUNGTON-For\' cont~ door ·in the psychology building was kicked in. JSU ractors and suppliers who do posters were vandalized with antisenritic slogans. business with the Pentagon, The latter act~vity causes no financial loss, but is Christmas comes in September. ff · · · t d t ll f li · h That's the last month of the o enslVe, mappropna e,· an to a y out o . ne wit fiscal year and Defense the type of behavior most of us would like to see at ...Department officials, fearful of Union. · having to turn back a ,single To top all of this off, two security cars were van~ penny of their ye!'lrlY allocation, daUzed while parked outside Phi Sigma Kappa early furiouslyspend billions. las_t Saturday morning. Broiren lights, dents and 'Ibis year, according to our ..,~ sources, the Pentagon brass scratches resulted. spent some $4 billion on Sept. 30, This is intolerable! Have. students lost complete the last day of the fiscal year. respect for this college? Intelligent, upper-crust Congressional investigators are people, who demand a quality education and pay currently studying this careless tremendous costs for it, are phys_ i_cally ·brut~n··z 1 ·ng spending binge. The figures for fiscal 1983 have not yet been their school's physical property. _· · · fully compiled, but an More likely than not, the .va·ndalism is performed by examination of the Pentagon's people when highly intoxicated, but we can't allow 1982 year-end spending spree · this to serve as an adequate defense. Eacp of us must ·.has been completed. Among the b ~ disclosures in a report e responsible for his or her actions at all times, assembled by House 'Yhich in~ludes restri~tip.~ o~eself from overimbibing Appropriations Committee to the po1nt of partlClpatmg IQ. senseless destruction. - investigators are these: If anJndividual is cap~ble of attending Union, he or · · ~Navy 'officials ordered. she should be able to exercise a little bit of self con- 57 • 600 softballs on Sept. ao. 1982 ~ \simply because funds were trol, at least when it comes to something as idiotic as available.\ beating up on cars or buildings or computers. -One Army imit bought 14 Does the college have to set up a special fund to months' worth of paper supplies finance repairs caused· by student vandalism? We even though its stationery uld li •t 1 · elosets were already stuffed co· · so c1 · ·aumm. for. contributions or add ·a with·enoughmaterialstolast19 \student vandalism fee\ to every student's annual months. bilh - . · -Another Army unit \or· If these ideas sound ridiculous, think again. They dered ice cube markers, ice 'di ul th k' k' · t b'l storage bins and video cassette are no more r1 c . ous . . an . 1c mg an au omo 1 e players that they didn't need (that you helped pay for) at three o'clock in the deliveryonforoverayeareven _ morning. · though these types of items are Vandalism will only drive· up annual costs and· available immediately off the restric.t u_· tili_zation _of. the abused equipment. The shelf from col.llDlercial sources at the time the item is alumm, trustees, parents and area dignitaries are required.\ . sure to dow~grade thetr opinion of Union when they -Air Force officials at one read about all the vandalism. command unit spent $2.9 million There is only one sure solution. We'll have to en- for new furniture when the courage professors to schedule more Monday tests furniture already in use could ~ and assign more weekend pap· ers. That way, there -- h~v~ been repaired for $1.1 t million. , jus won't be enough time to vandalize. -:-At Fort Rucker, Ala., and Sad Hindsight As this editorial is being written, area radio stations are reporting 208 United States Marines were killed in Lebanon as a result of a bombing attack at their base last Sunday. A large number remain to be located, and when all the rubble of the devastated barracks is cleared away, more bodies are likely to be uncovered. These Marines should never have been sent to Beirut in the first place, but unfortunately the in· dividuals responsible for stationing them there are still defending their positions! We can't even accuse this Administration of20-20 hindsight. · Pol!ti~ally, perhaps it would be unwise to pull our remammg troops out of there now I but that should not be the issue. To. put valuable military personnel, and more importantly, valuable lives in a situation that cannot-win, only lose, is insane. We lost, and we lost big. In such an. unstable environment, security should have b~en strong and alert at those barracks. It was not. In this respect, the hindsight is at least admitted. T~e ~ost yre can hope for is prevention of this type ofs~tuati~n m the future, but. they ~aid the same thing dunng VIetnam. They'll say It agam someday, too. Ft. Bragg, N.C .. , new dental chairs and operating units were purchased for $84,000 when existing equipment could have . been repaired for $3,000. _;Officials at the Ft. Meade, Md., dental clinic \bought 28 new dental operating stools at a cost of $8,400 and at the same time got rid of 37 dental operating stools\ that were \new or like new.\ Footnote: Rep. Norman Dicks, D-Wash., is attempting to recover a portion of the foolishly spent funds by withholding a small percentage of the Defense · Department's next budget. UNDIPLOMATIC . DISCRI- MINATION: The old-boy network at the State Depart- ment is trying to hush up a sex scandal of sorts. It involves systematic discrimination against women applicants for jol;Js in the Foreign Service. Disappointed women ap- plicants filed a class-action suit and the department has quietly agreed to settle out of court. State Department offigials have agreed to contact 35,000 female job seekers and invite them to try again for the diplomatic careers they wanted. Even if the rejected women job seekers are still interested and a fair number are hired, it is unlikely to change the basic situation. At the higher levels, the State Department still operates much like an exclusive gentleman's club. When it comes to promotions · and assignmen~s to the more desirable posts, no women need apply. The goal of · every Foregin Service officer is to become an ambassador, but · very few women make it. On the rare occasion when a woman is named an ambassador, she is usually a political appointee not a career diplomat. And she is usually given an embassy in a country that is not considered \important\ enough to merit a male ambassador. The same men-only attitude also prevails in promotions to policy-shaping positions in _the State Department. Women are traditionally assigned to routine \housekeeping\ chores in personnel and consular offices. They rarely get on the escalator that leads to the important, decision-making jobs. DE LOREAN'S TRIAL: The newspapers in coming weeks Editors-in-Chief News Editors Features Editor Associate Features Editors .Arts Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Advertising Editors will be headlining news of John DeL9rean's trial. He is the producer of a futuristic stainless steel car who is ac- cused of trying to rescue his company from. financial ruin by selling 220 potmds of cocaine. The buyers turned out to be federal agents~ DeLorean is clearly in deep trouble, but there is a hitch in the government's case agaimst him. The prosecution's own court docwnents reveal that the federal agents' first con- versations with DeLorean were not recorded. This is important, because the government claims tbat DeLorean made the first overture to a inan who turned out to be a government in- formant. DeLorean insists that the government's tipster made the first move, and that nar- cotics weren't even mentioned. Expect DeLorean to zero in on the unrecorded conversations. He hopes to prove he was en- trapped. CONFIDENTIAL FILE: Intelligence sources say the Soviet Union is building up its forces . on a military base located on a Red Sea island off the coast of Ethiopia. JulieAbelman, Doug Landon Jay Baruch, Gayle Rosenfeld Donna Getson Dave Fitzgerald, Franklin Schneider Debbie Albert Karen Lis8auer Karen Greaves, Jill Kaufman Drew Hurley, Paul Kurker Mary Ann Gagliardi, Heidi Rosen Layo~t Advisor Peter Mohr Photo Editor Mary Phillips Associate Photo Editor Daphne Chlgas Sports Photo Editors Robert Tang, Bonnie Rosenberg Subscriptions Editor Lori Kaplan Political Cartoonist DavidNeiblum Staff Jan Baran, Robert Bassin, Rich Beigen, Norman Birnbach ( colwnnist·at-large). Jill Bradley, Jodi Brennet·, Tod Dimmick, Lou George, Sam Gifford, Josh Greene, Chris Hand, Lynn IJano, Dave Marin, Christine Marsching, Robin Molella, Lori Oliwenstein, Steve Piraino, Linda Raffaele, Wendy Richards, Rob Rissell, Debbie Rose, Margot Salisbury, Barrie Stahl,. Judie Steinhardt, Janice Thompson, Peter Stegemann, Betsy Treitler, Sherry Weitzen, Philip Westerman, Debbie Wiener, Scott Wykoff, Linda Zahnleuter Photo Staff . JOn Barofsky, Jim Campbell, David Dworkin, Liz Karazim, Paul Klein . Pat Merrit, Patti Sacks, Larry Shapir~ CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday b the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall Schene!tady New. Y?rk 12308; Publications Office: 'Susquehann~ Publications, ~c., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563- 7151. Entered In ~he Schenectady Post Office as first class matter. ~ubscription rate, $18 per year, delivered anywhere in the Uruted States.j Office Telephone. 370-6155. C 0 0NCORQIE!'I:SIS subscribes to the College Press Service ( PS), and utilizes the College News Bureau ( CNB).

PageS CONCORDIENS/S, October 27, 1983 . CAMPUS NEWS ·--------- SPEAKERS Dr • .J. Richard Gaintner, President and Chief Executive Officer, Albany Medical Center, Will be speaking on \The Albany Medical Center - Cor- porate Reorganization in the Health Business\ on October 27, 1983-3:45 P.M. in Room 312, Bailey Hall, Union College. awards in the folloWing areas: applied physical science, electrical energy (women only), math, osteopathic· medicine, the Christian ministry, and scienCle and engineering through both the National Science Foundation and NASA. In addition, infonnation is available on awards to graduate minority students in law, dentistry, management and political science. Interested students should inquire at the Financial Aid Office. Amnesty. International presents a lecture by Professor Charles Gati of the Political Science department entitled, \Why Human Rights Should Not Be the Centerpiece of U.S. Foreign Policy.\ The event is to be held in the Old Chapel on Wednesday~ November 2 at 8:00 p.m. All members of the college community are welcome and there will be a discussion period following Professor Gati's presentation. This lecture is first in a series of talks on the topic of Human Rights spon- sored by the Union College Chapter of Amnesty Inter- national. AMERICAN Educational Services is sponsoring nob- need-based scholarships to undergraduates in 1984-85. Students are considered for these awards based on statements from the student and a nominator. (Eligible nominators include faculty, administrators, counselors, advisors, etc. ) SCHOLARSHIPS Application fonns can be obtained by writing to Cheryl L. Rice, AMERICAN College Scholarship Program, AMERICAN Education Ser- vices, 419 Lentz Court, Lansing, Michigan 48917. · Applications must be mailed by March 1, 1984. FELLO WSH/PS If you are planning to attend graduate school next year you may be interested in applying for a scholarship or fellowship. The Financial Aid Office has information on graduate Senior students and· recent graduates in the humanities Dutch Hollow Pub Friday, Oct. 28, 1983 4:30-8:00 p.m. -· Happy Hour 1. Bar Pour Drinks ..................•......... 1.25 2. Draft Beer .................................. . 50 3,. Soda ......................................... 25 Reduced Pitchers 1. Soda ....................................... 1.25 2. Beer ...............•......................• 2.50 Reduced Wine Carafes 1. Small ...................................... 1.75 2. Large ....................................... 3.75 Non-Alcoholic Drink 1. La Breeze .................................. 25 2. La Wi.r:ldmill ........................•...•.... 25 Reggae Night . 9:00-closing Special Guest··WRUC Special Drinks (FrL & Sat.) 1. Dutch Toasted Almond ..•.................... 1.00 2. Apple Rum ................................. 1.00 ltalia Pizzeria & Restaurant 1617 Union St. 374-4623 --------Weekly Specials------- Monday: 8 cut Cheese Pizza only $3.25 Tuesday: Any Sub for only $2.25 Wednesday~ Buy any 12 cut and get a 6 cut FREE · Thursday: 2 orders of Spaghetti or Ziti .w>th Bread fQr only $3.25 Friday: 12 cut Cheese Pizza $4.25. (Add $1.25 per topping) PIZZAS Saturday: FREE 16 oz. bottle of Soda with any Sandwich (1 per customer) Sunday: FREE Quart of Pepsi with any order of $8.00 or more SOt Delivery Charge for orders under $5.00 HOT S~NDWICHES ----NAPOLETANA___ Veel Panmgi1n1 3 75 llc.rt 8Cui Steak SandWICh 2 60 E~ Plant 2 2S Chlftl , , .. , ••.... 3.95 Cl\crese . . . . ...... 4.50 ~d 25 to b~low to, P•fmlr;#fll f Topping •. , .••. :. -4.50 1 Topping .... , ... ;5..30 ~Post'',\ 2 30 Saus.ge 2 40 2.35 Sausage & Papper 2 50 2 Toppjrtg~ •· • • • \' 6 • 10 2 Tc;.pplng:s ' ... ' ... O..OO Antiptrta S.IKI 2.9S 3 Topplngo ........ 6.1l5 JTopplngt ......... 6.75 · 4 Topplngaar mon1- s.~m• price Thl Workt . , ...... 7.00 TM Works . . 7 tiKl PASTA ----SICI~IANA---- Manloonl .. 3.50 lwuhMmbollsl 4.40 12Cu1; ~ CYt SpiVhittl .•. , ..•. 2.70 (With Moltballd . 3.50 Chme · ........... G.25 Choett ........... 9.25 Zhi.. . . . 2.75 (with Meit~lld 3.50 1 Toppln; .•...• , . , 7.10 1 Topplnq, ... , , , , 11.05 A~loli . . 3.25 (with .'M\ballsl . 3.90 2 Topping. ... , •... 7.90 2·Toppl09f •. ,, .... 13.l& Luagne J.aa (w1th Me1tb•llsl 4.60 3 Toppltt;J ....• , • , 8,50 3 Toppings ...•••• 1~. 95 .n •bow fncludfJI Brrld and S&J1d ThiWOflcl ....•.. 10.40 TheWorkl •....•. 17.a5 ToiMdSalld 1.50 1Jrln1ln thflm~rw, Mldg.t $1.00 Olf on your pizt• SUB SANDWICHES Milllbo ...... - .. hb ........... -.onlono .... -~--·· Aoort DNf • \ .. , \ 3.2$ Turktv ........ , .. 3.25 H1m ............. 2.10 ·Tuno ............. 2.411 Hom • a.- , .... 3.00 Chftw ........ , .. 2.20 Sal\\l ........... 2.105 Cipl<olla ......... 2.115 Jltfian Ml~sd !Copicoi!O, s. ... r. Mortlldol~. ,,.,..JoneJ ..••.. 3; 15 I E...., Tu.dot Nitti I: All \\' Spasloml VOil ..., .... ; I with GM Moetbafl; OM ordtr of OarUe ftrtad end Saiod , .. tot only ttcl, Che~~w:. 2T01Jpln\' CAL.ZONE 2.25 1 ToppJilQ . . 2.65 3 Toppin~ • F~ protnpt ordtlll, n/1 lhMd of timt N·EW HOURS V\5 2.85 Sundty 3 00 p.m. to 11 00 p,m, Mond•v thru Thuf'KI•v 11 00 a.m to 12·00 p,m, FridaY 1nd Slturdty 11 00 1.m. to 1·00 l,rn. ,,..,,\'-' w,- Dllivtr Aft.r 5:(Jr)'p,m. c.-LL 374·~ 16.00 Mlr~lmurnOrdl' l planning to seek a Ph.D. m- preparation for a career in teaching and research should investigate, with their faculty advisors, the program of MeDon. Fellowships in the Humanities. This program is administered by the Woodrow Wilson Foundation and will provide successful .candidates with three or more years of financial support, for ·graduate .study beginning with a stipend of $7,500.00 plus tuition and fees in the first year. The awards are portable, but the candidate is responsible for application and admission to a Ph.D. program at some university in the United States or Canada. · Competition for the 1G0-125 . awards to be granted is intense, but students with· strong academic credentials and a sincere jnterest in college teaching may be nominated by any faculty member of the College. Nominations should be sent to the Regional Cominittee Cliainnan: Dean Alain Seznec College of Arts and :Sciences 234 Goldwin-8mith Hall Cornell University Ithaca, New York 19853 The letter of nomination should include the candidate's . name, college, current address,. and intended field(s) of study, and must reach Dean Seznec by November 4, 1983. The necessary forms apd instructions will then be sent to the nominees. Printed information and advice concerning the Mellon Fellowships i$ available from Professor Jan K. Ludwig, Ph.ilosophy Department, Humanities.BuildiJ;lg, Room 215. Professor Ludwig would ap- preciate being informed of candidates nominated from Union. · INTERNSHiPS An informational meeting will · be held on Monday, Oct. ·a1 at 4:30P.M. in SS 112 for students interested in participating in Union's State Legislative Internship ( PS 76-78) program in Albany during the Winter and Spring terms. The courses are open to all majors (with preference to political science majors) but enrollment is limited to eighteen. Interested persons who cannot attend should see Prof. Tidmarch in SS 215. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::;:::::::::::;;;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=:~::::::::::::::::::::: First Annual STUDE·NT PHONE-A- THO·Nt Fun, .Food, Conversation- All while Helping Union's Annual Fund Teams. consist o1 2 people each night; Tuesqay, Nov. 2 and Wednesday, Nov. 3, 5:30-9:00. All interested teams contact Don Petis or Debbie ·MacFail at the Alumni Office in Lamont House, x6168. MtiNH~(fhiiN ~~~IH~~(;[t: MOVIES , 11teR.GadWamor: Fri.,Sat., Sun .• 7, 9 & ll...SS 016. $1. Halloween Special-!frank- eo.stefn (X) : Mon. 9,11 $1. FREE CANDY 'The Bicycle Thief: Tue. 7, '9& 11. $1. HELP WANTED Babysitter neede~ on TuESday and Thursday from 2- 5:30:at$1.75-hour. Call 393-2546. Student-cumberland Farms, Curry & Ft. Hunter Rd. P-T4-12 week nights and weekends. Minimum wage. Please. ·contact Valerie at 355-9943. - Lo()klngfor student (female). Sttu:lent may live in and take cal.\\e of individual recuperating from st.roke (ambulatory). Location Rotterdam near Shop- 0-Rama. Callafter 5 PM Collect and ask for Mr. James Hannay a-c 617 • 256-0985. Need. t~le·markettng representative P~T hours. Two different shifts 1-5 PM & 5-9. PM Monday through Friday. Saturday 9AM to 12 PM .. Hourly rate plus bonus & Commission. Duties-Settling ~ppointments for C)Utside representatives. R.J. Grosso Inc~ 356 'Troy-schenectady Rd. Latham, N.Y. 12110 Please contact Elizabeth CraWJner at 785·3712 between 1 & 3 FM Monday through Friday. Possible employment on a part·tlllle basis only in . aut()mobile (mechanical, in- stallation, customer contact), • ( ] J f I t~ G c, n 3l - c WI co co .ar1 COl ar1 1 ha1 rna inti mil I I

CONCORDIENSIS, October 27, 1983 Page9 sales floor (inside anc;l on road);, clerical and pac)(age handling. Please ·apply between 12-6 Mon.- Fr. Sears, 166 Erie Blvd. 2nd floor. Equal Opportunity em· ployer. Partatfme student needed for retail ~ales of $tereo equipment. Afternoons. Contact Mike at Ph8$e III Stereo .at 355-0465. Students interested ln telephooe sales. Evenings. Good. cash pay-2 blocks from campus on Union Street. For more info. call Kathy or BUl at 374-1492 or 374-5372. ' CLASSIFIEDS Typing f~r stUdents. Knows medical tenninology, Please· contact Anita at 355-3239. Typing for students. Please contact 346-5104 Niskayuna .area. - Typlag for students. Please contact 370.5222. Mt. Pleasant area'~' FOR SALE 1976 MGB convertible with hardtop, wire wheels, repair manual, white-brown leather interior. Approximately 46,000 miles. Must see. Good con- dition; Call Joe at 456-1846 • FOR SALE: Sanyo.SP 40 Hlgh Power brand new 4 inch Door Mount Coax Speakers. $40--Call Jodi 381·1644. HOUSING APartment needed for: winter and spring tel'ltlS for a male student. Please call 37~729. DJd you take a Term abroad? See your color .pictures in the 1984 Yearbook ! Deadline is - Friday, November· 4. Interested students should pick up info sheet in Student Activities Office or put a note in Box 1173. . We need many photos! ATTENTION.: The 8runch after the Newman Club Mass, will be held at Hale House on Sunday, October 30, 1983 at l:O(l p.m. A .buffet line will be set up in Hale House Dining :Room and: seating for the Brunch will be in Old Chapel. If YoU are not a meal card holder, P.lease make sure that you pick up a BRUNCH PASS fromSisterJoan Vlawn;O.P. at her office in Carnegie Hall, or BEFORE the Mass on Sunday. No one will be admitted without a valid MEAL CARD or a BRUNCH PASS. ·~ * M¢/JJT sea@f®l-~ © 1983. SEAGRAM DIST1tl£RS.CO., N.Y., N.Y. AMERICAN WHISKEY-A BLEND. 80 PROD~ \Seven-Up:' and \7UP\ are trademarils·.ofthe Seven-Up Company PERSONALS. WTF Raiders . . . Good luck tonight. Kim, it's great to have you back . . . love, Jacquie · Mrs. Huge- You stole the key to my heart. Love,. Me pJ:_Another Thursday and no HSB i'm sure. Maybe I'll see you at D Phi. Oh, by the way, congratulations. IA>ve, yolir VC LAZELLE-You're a big loser and I love you for it. All I can say is • T.G.I.O. and expect to help me. I love you. Me Koz and Kel- You did a GREAT job!! W.e love you ... Your sisters Chere Amy, although I can't be With you to share your special day-- I'm thinking about you! Happy birthday bon-have a blast! Tu me manque. Hugs and kisses-La Petit Lapin- Karen Jack \too cool for words\ qui~l'm reatly glad we both had mellow weekends, but let's face it, it's time to get rowdie again. Love, Loops ' Gretchen, do you even exist on weekends? Thank goodness CAMPUS NEWS you're in 2 of my classes, oChetwJse I'd never see you!- Love, \guess who'' To my Hattie.St. Buddies, (all groupies included) You guys really made my day (and nights! ) What would I do without you... probably get some of my work done? (and be bored to death). Lots, and lots of Love, \the UCLA transfer\ SLGuy~We miss you! Come visit us. Remember,. we all have a date for Coco's sometime soon. Love always, A & A Ka, Skyd, and Nance- The two lone SLG's miss you veey, very much. Things just aren't the same! Hope you're having an amazing time, but hurry home! We love you .... A & A Jason G.-Are you alive? Give me a call. Love, your favorite senior To my roommate the· slut, I thought that I was supposed to be the sexually uninhibited one! ! l Love Me because I love you! P.S. Were you the UC Coed I head yelUng at breakfast? ! ! ! - Dear Barishnakov and your unnamed roomie (I'm still working on it)-B.T.R. and you know what that means. TOMS forever. Ha. Love, the girl dovm the hall - To Gary Cooper (alias Burt Reynolds, Rudolph Valentino, etc.)- You really are such a stud in that incredibly studly jacket. Stay away from those carrots! :Wve, Jackie S. JP and CM- You are such LOSERS!!!! Grow up will you? DW Mr. Jim-GET BETTER SOON!!! We love you~ .. Ta.ke care and be careful when necking! I!! Love always, the SLG's SHAW-CONGRATULAT· IONS!!! You didit and you did a damn good job! GET PSYCHED! ! We love you ... A&A. HAPPY· BIRTHD.A Y SU:ij B! ! ! Hope you have a great day. We love you and some ()f us miss you, too! Love always, the SLG's ... A, A, S, K, and N Steve Aides: Mildred the snapping turtle is in YOUR closet!!! Or in Brian\s!!!!! - -KEEP GUESSING! To Whomever it may con- cern: COKE, CABARET, KA!!! From someone else it concerns! Hey Ken, when are you moving back on the floor? Stacy F. (S.D.T.), don't know what happened Fri. night, but believe it or not, I really am psyched, happy, and rootin' for you. Love, Laurie First floor Davidson South- We thought you were real men, how disappointing- Third Floor Richmond TUX, When is it going to happen? ++Tiger To the Peanut Man in Chi Psi: Does \peanut\ refer to-the size of your room or to the size of your banana? Either, right? - . From the two who wish they didn't know Beware: Rumor has it that Geeks abound at Hickock House (and at Park Ave.?) Hold on to your bicycle seats! For prompt, safe and en- joyable escort try Timo's Escort Service, call 382-9582. For clean accommodations at a reasonable price try Butters Motel, to make reservations call Tom at 382-9582. Tired, sick of staying up all night but a friend will not let you into your room? To get quality advice on how to handle the situation call_ Char at 382-9582. Pisserly-Thanks for everything. I had a great time and next time, you'll vomit -whether you like it or not. To last year's 213D suite: 1be Astroturf Strangler wants a reunion sometime soon. Remember: Pooper, Bluey, Bowie, Ames, Di, Rugachuga, ''What's-yoUrsdog's-name?\• and Fifi. Attention girls: Have you seen \the Stud\ R.A. on 4th floor West? You'll have to wait in line for that riled Happy Cat. Shewy- stay happy or you may turn into a wookie. Hey Barbarian .. When are you going to get a penn and convert to marry me? Hey, Uncle Strap- You certainly are a hairy creature. Loe, you owe me 90 cents Hi stef. Be happy and don't worry about things. Love, me

.. Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, OctQbei 2 7, 1983 TH -ARTS This Week At Proctor's JoAnn Worley in\ Jerry's Girls\ ByTOD DIMMICK Jerry's Girls opened at Proctor's on Friday night. It is a musical composed of songs and medleys from the well known Broadway performances of Hello Dolly, Mame, and La Cage A~ Folles, among others. All of the music was composed by the composer-lyricist Jerry Herman, thus giving the name of the musical. The star of the show was actress-comedienne JoAnne Worley. Worley may be familiar from her appearances on Love Boat and her star position on Laugh-in. On the stage she has starred in many plays, among them _Can-can, Mame and Pirates ofPem:8]Jce. Her husband you may know as the principal on the T.V. comedy Facts of Ufe. The three supporting actors, Pauletta Pearson, Melanie Vaughan, and Margaret Wright all have, Broadway reputations. • h Margaret Wright has been on Need something to do ton1g t? numerous soap operas and Join us at Cabaret .for an amazing show. MelanieVaughanwasherelast Flown in from Las Vegas, for one night only: year as Johanna in Sweeny Todd. The entire cast and or- The I-ncomparable chestra of the musical is made Luke Fannon up of women, m the spirit of \Jerry's Grils.\ Their tour The Awesome began in mid September, and Danni Raphael will end later this month iri New York. · 2 shows I did not anticipate a thrilling 8:45 & 10:45 D.m. performance. How interesting B . E TH. E· RE'. would a conglomerate of songs be? Fortunately I was mistaken ~------------------------------~~-----------~- ·.Theatre Oct. 29 & 30, Nov.1-6-THE GLASS MENAGERIE; Market Theatre, Pe.arl St., Albany. 8:00p.m. 462-4534 Oct. 30-THE GREAT VAUDEVILLE MAGIC & ILLUSION SHOW-Proctor's, 2 p.m. 370-0047. Nov. 4-5, 11 & 12-WEST SIDE STORY, RPI Playhouse, Troy, 8 p.m. 266-6503 Nov. 5-6, 9-13, 16-19-0NCE UPON A MATTRESS, Cohoes Music Hall, 8 p.m. (except Sundays-2 v.m.) 235-7569 ' (Jfr~ . Music Nov. 3-CAPITOL CHAMBER ARTISTS, The Egg, Albany, 8 p.m. 489-0507 Nov. 3-UNIVERSITY SYMPHONIC BAND, SUNY A, 8 p.m. 457-8606 Nov. 4-RIDERS IN THE SKY, Proctor's Theatre, 8 p.m. 382-1083 Oct. 31=CARRIE, Siena College, Siena Hall, Rm. 202, 8 p.m. Science and Engineering Sophomores Are you interested in a year of studie's in Switzerland? Now is the tim,e to apply! If you are Dean's List and have enough German or if you are willing to take German for the winter and spring terms and then to take an intensive Goethe Institute course in Germany, you are eligible to- apply for the one nominated Union student for 1983.-84 year at the \M.I.T.\ of Europe. This honor is recorded on your file at Union College. Please inquire of Prof. Martit\l in chemistry at the Science and Engineering Center soon ! COFFEEHOUSE PRESENTS Dennis D'asaro Oct. 28 8:30p.m. Cabaret Room Tickets: $1.50 -Paisa Miser FASHIONS ~RoM INDIA Bock to School Specials 20% Discount on all New Arrivals With Thi• Ad 163 JAY STREET 377-7973 Chtcb Accept•d with Visa, Master Carel or American bprf!sS 10:30-4 Doily, 10:30-t Thwsdays in rny expectations. Altbough the songs and skits were aimed at an audience familiar with the· source plays, I still felt myself affected by the stirring songs. Pauletta Pearson, from the original Off .Broadwa~ production of Jerry's Girls, had a very good voice, especially in her rendition of \Kiss Her Now.\ Margaret Wright; an aging actress., was not bad in \I Won't Send Roses.\ .Melanie Vaughan was a complement to the performance with an en- thusiastic, skillful voice in '\That's How Young I Feel\ and other pieces. By far the lead was Jo Anne Worley. Her strong voice and imposing character were a palpable presence on stage. Her characteristic guffaw , and sudden burst-s of humor had the audience well entertained. Her straining, emotional delivery of \I Am What I Am\ captured the en- thusiastic approval of the audience. Her self-deprecating remarks, coupled with a sharp sarcastic wit, gave her constant control of the audience-'s reactions. Because I had not had the past experience with the songs of Jerry Herman, I w.as put in the position of watching those around me to judge the effect of the performance. The audiepce greeted many of the songs with famUiarity, as if seeing an old friend. When the audience began singing along with the actresses, I lost my doubts about U;le' impact. There was one event that set thiS performance apart from others. After the curtain call, Ms. WQrley came out on stage again. She spoke to the audience as if to some close firends, recoJinting some common · experience. She told of past performances at Proctor's, and laughingly explained a slight microphone problem that oc-. cur:red. 'This intimacy made the performance a little more than something to watcb from a . distance. This familiarity. was. increased forme by meeting the cast .. Melanie Vaughan, in particular, told me l;lbout tbe adventures in performing a traveling show, and was v,ery willing. to talk about herself. The efforts of the actors and actresses always become more real when I see them as real people. All of this was new to me and I enjoyed myself quite a bit. Jerry's Girls is the beginning .of what I hope will be a long series of theatrical and musical reviews. I hope that you will find something of interest in this or the articles to follow. Proctor's would like to see more Union students, and if you show up one hour before ~ny show, you can get up to two. tickets for \half price (with ID). Take ad- vantage of this' oppprtunityl (A good timeto start might be the GEORGE CARLIN ap- pearance Nov. 13!) c: ~ ~ :::1 ro ·a. >- .0 .. ~ c. Photo of Prof. Martin Benjamin of Arts at his show last April in Lubbock, Tx. Learning About Art By CHRISTINE MARSCHING_ Assistant Professor Martin Benjamin teaches. Photography I, 11, and DI at Union College. He has recently been granted free.Polaroid materials for his use 1n his artwork by .the Polaroid Corporation. He first ' came to Union as a visiting assistant professor during Spring Term 1979, Previously he bad taught at St. Ro~e's in Albany for siX years. Photography I is t,aught during the Fall, Winter and Spring terms. Emphasis is placed on technique and craft of photography. Projects include assignments on. light, self portraits, portraits and short student choice projects. Photography II concentrates less on technique and more on image content and developing of personal style. Projects in tbis course indlude portrait studies, figure studies and landscaping. The final course, Photography III, entails a group project. For example, last year the class toured Schenectady with Marty Benjamin. Some of Marty Benjamin's other work includes eXhibitions, shows and sending pictures to magazines. In 1974 ne recejved $5,000 for w~g first place in the Life Bicentennial contest. In addition, he won fitst place for two years in the nationwide Nikon Contest. Both students and faculty participate in this contest with first prize being $15,000 in Nikon Equipment. Some of this recent work in- cludes an essay done in Lutr bock, Texas about Buddy Holly. This sununer Marty Benjamin spent two weeks at Ellis Island. One photograph from this series was awarded honorable . mention in the recent Albany Country Tricentennial Art Exhibition. - In the future, Marty Ben- jamin's work can be seen at Prairie State College in Chicago Heights, Illinois during October. In November, ---there will be an exhibition at Ithaca College. Certain photographs are shown in Rolling Stone Magazine, Soho News, the Village Voice and American Photo. Professor Benjamin is a delightful man who makes photography fun and exciting. His broad range of photographic understanding lends a unique aspect to his courses as well as capturing all his students' interest. All students shoUld watch for his work in popular magazines and consider taking one .of his COUt\ileS. j - - - Dh . J,l >- .0 0 0 ,C c. T Roc Div cha Stat, shov La worn two 1 heat Ber~ In th the weal Benr Mon majc two, · Berk winr: impo the conti still I prO VI for l Ag playE ;;eas< the fi first notct by pi goal Mors was Clern the l tacti< be to prev~ playe Inadi very enabl get a1 woulc calle< the fi Fo Conti Coacl thegl ShOW I abllit The~ getr; If 1 play make theN Thi: host t 1) whi their unble: Willia been chan1 meeti

CONCORDIENSIS~ October 27, 19.83 , Pagel! SPORTS \notes off the cuff\ Divis_ion 1 111 Singles _Cha~ n - . Julie Miller Win$ State Title Sports Talk f- a::: > .0 0 0 .c c. By LOIS LANE This. pa~t weekend in Rochester, the New York State Division Ill AlA W tennis championship was won by Staft:l cf.lamp Miller strains tot show in early season action Union's o'Wn first singles pl~yer Julie MUler. The fifth seed captured the tow:nament on SUnday with a 6·2, 6•1 victory -over Hamilton's first single's player Diane Ghlron. Julie's record for the Dut- chwomen· during.the season was 10.:1. She reached the finals of the tournament by defeating_ -Vassar's Laura Parker (4th seed) 'in the semifinals, Laura was Julie'.s only ·loss .during the season and revenge was sweet as she prevailed in straight sets (7-5,- 6-3). Howev.er, Julie's biggest upset in the tournament came when she triumphed over the nwnber one seed Beth Ayotte of St. Lawrence in the quar- terfinals (6-2, 6-1). Other wins for Julie were against Albany State (6-0, 6-4) and Siena (6..3, 5- 7, 6-2). Coach Means felt confident in Julie as she stated, \I thought she could do it. JUlie is ex- tremely athletic and has .a great servic.e. She has a variety of spins oh her serve and can also cannonball it. She comes to the net and volleys well. She,has a great all around .game and a great attitude.\ Miller ends her outstanding tennis career with a 32-11 r;egular season record, .a 19-5 · state tournament record, and a 51-16 overall mark. Last year she finished fifth in the state event. On the tournament, Julie said, \I thought I had a shot at it, but ·really not too much more than that. In the semifinal, I wasn't too sure because the girl had beaten me, but once I got to the final I felt pretty confident because I )lad beaten her easily during the season.\ Also representing Union were the doubles team of Unda Esposito and Loma Rushforth. They advanced through one round of competition before lostng in the third round of consolation play. Overall, the Dutchwomen tied for eighth place in Division III. Congratulations to Julie and the entire tennis squad for a fine season. With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff Here are just a few notes off the cuff to chat about when sports conversation might be running a bit low. Playoff Hopes-When was the last time that two Dutchmen teams during the same season had as good a shot at making the NCAA playoffs as this fall's football and soccer teams. Both teams have only a few weeks of games remaining on their respective schedules and head coaches Bagnoli and Magee look to finish off the regular seasons in a fury. Bagnall's squad plays Williams Saturday at home, then travels to Mid~ dlebury before returning home to play host to Hamilton on the 12th. Coach Magee's hooters travel to Rochester for a tough match tomorrow night that could possibly decide the New York State soccer playoff picture. these teams were just pushovers. They both prov~d they were not pushovers this past weekend as Rochester beat a nationally ranked St. Lawrence team and Colby upset a very formidable Middlebury Panther squad. A team does not go undefeated through two- thirds of a season undefeated and tally up fantastic stats, \having gotten away with anything\ except playing good football. Comer Kicks-The latest New York State Div. III soccer poll was released Monday and the Dutchmen find themselves ranked in a very deceiving seventh position. Cortland State, Kings Point and Binghamton are all ranked ahead of Union. Cortland State is currently ranked 2nd and was lucky to escape from an early season match with the Dut- Women~s Soccer l-Ion Week Pigsldn points-A member of the local media has in the last couple of weeks produced a number of controversial ar- ticles about the 6-0 Dutchman football machine. The basis of his article that recapped the Trinity game revolved around his belief that ''for the first time in six weeks, Union was celebrating without guilt, without the nagging. thought that they had gotten away with something.\ The -terms guilt and nagging seem to be a bit harsh for a team that has run up a 6-0 record and caught the attention of the entire cmmtry. The reporter in· question must have only seen the Dutchman games against Hobart and,RPI previous to his review of the . chmen with a victory. A tying goal by Jimmy Monks was called back by a ref and let Cortland slip away with an early s~ason win. Kings Point is ranked 4th this week while having already lost to the Dutchmen two weeks ago. Fifth in the State is Binghamton, a squad that Union tied on the road a number of weeks ago. You have to wonder what is running around in the minds of the coaches who participate in this poll. I doubt that many coaches have gone far enough to see that Union has both beaten Div. I Colgate and also tied a Div. I Army team that at press time owned an impressive 8-3-3 record. CPS IS Sports Staff ~ . Last week the Union College women's soccer team played two games, losing the first in a heated contest against Berkshire Comml;l!!ity ~opeg~._ In the second game of the week the boaters overpowered a weaker and less experienc.ed Bennington squad. Coach Marty Morrison pointed out that the major difference between the two; games was that to the - Berkshire team, the idea of winning became the most important thing and as a result the game was marred by controversy. Bennington,a team still operating at the club level, proved to be little competition for UnUon. Against Berkshire, Union played its finest half of the ;;eason completely dominating the first half. Two times in the first half the Union women notched beautiful goals set up by precision passing. The first goal was scored by Astrid Morsch. The second Union tally was netted by Roberta Clemente. Despite the effort of the Union squad the ruffhoU$e tactics of Berkshire proved to be too much to handle as they prevailed 3-2. They constantly played the man and not the ball. In addition, the officials called a very \loose\ game which enabled the Berkshire women to get away with a lot of fouls that would have ordinarily been called. Not to be overlooked was the fine goalkeeping of_ Monica Football ... Continued from page 12 Coach Bagnoli sununed up the game perfectly, \I think we showed our char-acter and our ability to be tough in the clutch. The kids hung tough and didn't get rattled.\ If these players continue to play in this manner you can make plans to see this team in the NCAA Division II playoffs. This Saturday the Dutchmen host the William Ephmen (2-2- 1) who will have one wor<J on their tnind Spoil. Spoil Union's unblemished record. In the past Williams College has always been the favorite but that has changed in the last few meetings. The Garnet has Lobell who turned in yet another stellar performance. Bennington, a much weaker opponent was disposed of by Union 2-1. Both Union goals came off the foot of Astrid Morsch, her third and fourth of the season, tieing her with Lisa Rathbun for ffie'team lead.- For Union, the Bennington contest gave the hooters reason for optimism as they were able· to compare their skills to a team just starting out, as they did last year. , The lady booters conclude their season against Albany St. on -Monday, the 31st, all are encouraged to lend their sup- port. Field ~ockey Ends Season ByCNB Sports Staff Despite a losing record (4- 9), rookie head coach Charlyn Robert was pleased with what her Outchwomen field hockey ·team accomplished during 1983, considered a rebuilding ·season. After all, included in the record were five one-goal defeats. Only twice, against Williams (a 5-0 loss) and Hartwick (a 4-0 loss) did the Dutchwomen get blown out of a garh.e. \Overall I'd have to say that I'm very pleased with what we accomplished this year,\ said Robert. \I think we learned to work with each other very well oil the field and I think we became aclose knit group off the field. With only one senior leaving the team, I'm very excited about next season.\ turned the program around and should continue to dominate opponents both offensively and defensively. Each Dutchman realizes that there is too much at stake to have a let down in the remaining three contests. Gridder Notes: Among the 14 upstate New York teams, Union has the best offensive average, 378 yards per game and the best defensive average, 195 yards. . . Bill Huttner and Johnnie Johnson are the fourth and fifth leading rushers respectively (keeping in mind that they split time). . . Stewart ranks third among quarterbacks •with a rating of 114.5 points and Johnnie Johnson tops the scoring list, while Frank Kraft is third ... Union is again first in the Lambert Bowl ratings, which includes the East, first in. the Upstate New York Coaches Poll, first in the New England Football Newsletter Poll, and seventh in the national NCAA Div. III football ratings; ~ Of the 13 goals scored by Union this year, two were scored by senior Mary McGrath. Junior Diane Moskaluk again led the team in scoring with five goals and two assists; giving her a three-year total of 16 goals, eight assists. Sophomores Julie Fitzsimmons and Cheryl Washbun each had three goals and an assist while freshman LiUian Tyree recorded four assists. SophomQre goalie Vera McCarty played every game and gave up 26 goals while recording 87 saves. \I feel we gained a lot of good experience this year that should help us -next season. If we gan get a couple of good recruits, I think we will be a playoff contender in 1984,\ commented Robert. · Trinity contest (which is not true). Even in those games, both teams had prepared finely tuned game plans tl:iat -gave _ Union's big play offense trouble in the early going. With ad- justments the first teamers found themselves with big leads -to open the foor for the second and third teamers to finish the games and gain the needed experience for the future. One must also remember that while the offense was getting into gear, the defense never gave an inch. Two more of Union's wins came at the hands of Rochester and Colby with relative ease. One would have to assume that our local reporter thought that Record Hop: Both Danny Stewart and Jinuny Monks have etched · their names into the Union College Sports record books. Against Trinity Stewart threw for three TD's to surpass the old school record of 30 touchdoWn throws in a career. Danny has thrown for 31 touch- downs in his three-year career and don't look for the ace out of Irwin Pa. to slow down a bit. Freshman soccer standout Jimmy Monks is well on his way to breaking Senior Co-Captain Dave Sheridan's freshman scoring record. Monks needs one more goal going into yesterday's game to surpass the old mark of seven set by Sheridan back in the fall of 1980. Athlete of the Week By DREW HURLEY Sports Staff Congratulations . to Dan Stewart of the undefeated and nationally ranked Dutchmen football team for gaining Athlete of the Week honors. · The junior quarterback had his best.day of the season as he connected on 18 of 29 passes for 267 yards, three touchdowns, and no interceptions. His · perform~ce earned him a spot on the IWAC weekly \Honor Roll.\ Stewart is also working on several Union football records. Against ·Trinity, Dan established a new record for career touchdown passes with 31. The previo~s mark of 30 was set in 1965 by Torn Hitchcock. The All-American-All-ECAC candidate also extended his NCAA division three record for consecutive games with a touchdown pass to sixteen. Stewart, who played with a sore index finger on his throwing hand, took control of the see- saw battle in the third quarter when he drove the Dutchmen 80 yards in 15 plays. This drive included first downs on three third and long · yardage situations. Dan, who hails from Irwin, PA, is also a member of Al Bagnoli's tennis team and a brother of. the Delta Upsilon fraternity. Good luck to Dan and the Dutchmen as they battle the 2-2-1 Williams Eph- men Saturday on the turf. Dan Stewart

r ' Page 12 CONCORDIENS/S, October 27. 1983 . . SP ... 7th in N.Y. State Dutch1nen Hooters Flying High By SAM GIFFORD Sports Staff The Dutchmen soccer team boosted their record to 7-1-2 with home victories over Division I Colgate 4·2 and Division IIhival Plattsburgh 3- 1. These wins improved Union's Division II New York State ranking to seventh. Wednesday afternoon in their overtime win against Colgate, Union found themselves trailing 2-1 at halftime despite out- shootjng the Red Raiders 19-4. The first 20 minutes, Union dominated the game, however, an infraction deep in Dutchmen territory enabled Colgate to capitalize on a penalty kick. The Dutchmen evened the score a minute later when Jim Monks scored on an assist from Bernie Zeifang. With 8:11 left in the half, the Red Raiders once gain took the lead as a lone striker broke free into the Union defense and sailed a perfect shot past the outstretched arms of Mike Harris. The 2-1 score stood until halftime as the Dutchmen were foiled on several opportunities. The second half began much as the first half had ended. Union again dominated the play and finally tied the score as Peter Stegemann banged home a deflection from Dave Sheridan. Regulation ended with the score still in a deadlock and two overtime periods followed. Howard Fiedler and S~~gemann each had op- portunities to win the game in the first half of overtime, however, their shots missed the mark. Union dominated both overtime periods, outshooting Colgate 9-l. With 2:55 remaining, Stegemann pounced on a rebound from Sheridan and directed the ball into the goal for the eventual game-winner. Union would not settle with a one goal advantage. With less than a minute left in the game, Jay Davis stole a ball at mid- field, raced down the left side and deftly crossed the ball to Steve Hartman who easily beat the Colgate goalie. \I think after playing two ties and coming out with nothing, they didn't want to come out with a third tie,\ coach Magee stated. \The entire team played extremely weU together; . Tom Cutter literally covered the entire field.\ On Saturday, Union met with Plattsburgh State. Once again Union dominated play and t~ Sports Ha·ppenings Oct. 27-Nov. 3 V. Fo«?,.tball Oct. 29 Williams 1:00 . J. V. Football Oct. 31 Albany St. 3:30 Men's Soccer Oct. 28 at RochesteF 3:30 Oct. 31 at Vassar 3:30 Nov. 2 at Siena 3:30 X-Country Oct.29atAibanySt.(lnv.) M Oct. 29 at Hamilton W Volleyball Oct. 28·29at Binghamton (Tourn.) Women's Soccer Oct. 28 at Vassar 3:30 Oct. 31 Albany St. 3:30 Rugby Oct. 29 Albany St. 1:00 Rugby Roundup By PIDL WESTERMAN Sports Staff The Union Rugby team, after an impressive victory over the Albany Old Green, succumbed to its next two opponents by being soundly beaten on the road at their opponent's homecomings. The team's performance before these two losses was very impressive with both the scrwn and the line executing well both individually and together. However, when the Union Ruggers took to the road, it was a different story. According to senior rugger Kyle Woodman, \We were brutal, we played horrendously.\ Whatever weaknesses Union had had in the past were evident over the past two games. On October 15, the team traveled to RPI where they were beaten 19- 0. It was a cold day, and Union did not seem to be able to get its engines running. By the end of the first half, RPI had built a 9.() lead. Union's serum and line could not consistently run the ball, and by the game's end the Engineers had run up a score of 19-0. Co-Captain John Tierney only said, \We'll kill them next week.\ The next weekend did not fare any · be~er for the Ruggers as they faced Amherst at Amherst on a beautiful day. But even the sun could not help Union as they were again defeated 17-7. The team did shine a few times in the first half. Co-Captain Steve Patterson scored a try, but the extra-point attempt was missed by John Wilbur. John later got a chance to redeem himself as he kicked a penalty shot for three points. The seven points Union had accumulated was not enough though as Amherst rambled on to a 17-7 victory. The problem again came from the scrumline execution, the serum was having a difficult time getting the ball out to the line. Both games were tough losses for Union. Hopefully their luck will change this weekend when they face Albany State at home. Come on out and support the Union College Rugby Football Club. ********************~- !- ....................................... ~ ********************~ >- .Q ~ s::: a. time they were rewarded as Zeifang slammed a screen shot past the visitor's goaltender. The talented Plattsburgh team came back to tie tlje contest five minutes later but Union once again took control as Stegemann scored on a breakaway to give the Dut- chmen a 2~ 1 lead at halftime. In the second half, the defense tightened up and whenever there was a momentary lapse, Mike Harris was there for the save. Grant Foreman, Guy Claveleox, and Dave Philbrick made wonderful plays clearing the ball out.of trouble .. Union put the game out of reach with six minutes remaining as a fresh- man combination clocked again. Hartman sent Jim Monks .in alone and beat the goalie for the-3-1 final margin. The Dutchmen extended their unbeaten streak to eight games with the two wins and appear to have an excellent chance at post-season h9me schedule with a game yesterday against Skidmore, then they take to the road for games against Rochester (Friday), Vassar and Siena. Three wins would almost assure them of an NCAA bid, the second in the history of the program. Senior Co-Captain Dave Sherid<!n excels uptfeld P<tSt an opponent. The varsity soccer team sports a 7·1·2 record. Union 42 Berkshire3 Union 2 Un.i.on 4 Union 3 Potsdam2 Union 1 Siena 28 RPI47 Albany St. 26 RPI29 Amherst 17 -Scoreboard- FOOTBALL (6-0.J WOMEN'S SOCCER (4-6) MEN'S SOCCER (7-1-2) Fl ELD HOCKEY (4-9) Trinity 28 Union 2 Bennington 1 Colgate 2 COT) Plattsburgh 1 Uni.onO Manhattanvi lie 0 MEN'S X-COUNTRY (1-6) WOMEN'S X-COUNTRY Cl-3) Albany St. 56 Uhion 106 Siena (non-scoring race) Ltnion .(non-scoring race) RUGBY (1-3) l)nion 7 Gridders Remain Undefeated . By'LOU GEORGE Sports Staff This past Saturday the Dutch- men faced their toughest op- ponent of the regular season and rose to the occasion. The gridders handed Trinity their second loss of the season 42-28. In front of a crowd with a large contingency of Union fans, the Dutchmen played tremendous football both . offensively and defensively. The Garnet knew·· that the defense could not bold off the explosive Trinity offense and knew that they had to put points on the board. The offense was led by Dan Stewart, who received the prestigious ECAC weekly \Honor Roll\ award for his performance. He completed 18 of 29 passes for 267 yards, three touchdowns and no in- terceptions. Countering the Bantams offense with touch- down after touchdown. \The offense has been ailing all season but SaturdaY, it all came together\ stated receiver Rich Kellaher. Stewart was not the only offensive star on Saturday; Bill Huttner and Johnnie Jolmson ran for 93 yards and 87 yards respectively and Frarik Kraft had his best game as a Dutchman catching eight passes for 126 yards and two touchdowns.' Union scored first after a 69 yard drive with a Johnnie Jolmson five yard run. The Bantams came back and broke the first string defense's 34 quarter unscored-upono·streak · to tie up the game. Bagnoli again put his offense into high gear and scored two more times: first on a run by Huttner and second on a run by Johnson for his second touchdown. But the Trinity Bantams did not buckle, with 4:34left in the first half Shields found receiver Mike Doetsch for a 7 4 yard touchdown pass. Trinity then got the ball back after three plays and drove to the Dp.tchmen ten yardline. This time the drive was thwarted by an Alex Rita interception in the endzone (his first of two on the day). As all goodteams do, Union capitalized on the turnover by driving down the field in five plays, ending on a Stewart to Kellaher touch- down pass. The quick drive that inflated the Dutchmen lead to 28-4 at halftime was highlighted by Frank Kraft's second and third efforts that converted a simple 18 yard sidelirie pattern into a 40 yard pass to the ·Bantam three yardline. Trinity closed the gap to 28-21 in the third quarter with a tremendous catch by Ned Ide on a ball tipped by free safety Lenny Huttner(whoaisy had a splendi~ day with two interceptions). .. The Dutchmen up the ball gameaway with twO\ drives that proved the Dutchmen could score when they put their mind to it. Both touchdowns com- bined the pass and run ef· fe'Ctively, and botQ. were capitalized . by the patterned Stewart to Kraft combination. Defensively, the Dutchmen played well, but weren't used to • . letting up the yardage and touchdowns that Bantam quarterback Joe Shields could muster. When the Garnet D needed a big play they produced: five interceptions, two by Lenny Huttner and Alet Rita and one by Bob Bertagna, and an important fumble recovery at the Dutclunen's three yardline by defensive end Mark Tavitian. . Continued on page 11 LAMBERT B_OWL POLL ''The Best in the East\ l.Union(NY) -6-0 2. Hofstra 7-o· 3. Carnegie-Mellon 7-0 4. Westminster 6-0 5. St. John's 7-0 6. WPI 5-0 7. Susquehanna 4-0-1 .B. Salisbury st. 6-0-1 9. Swarthmore 5·1 10. Gettysbl:lrg 6·1 NCAA Division li I Poll LAugustana (Ill) 2. Carnegie Mellon CPA) 3. Hofstra CNYJ 4. Case Western (OH) 4. St. John's (NY> 6. Wis. River Falls 7. Salisbury St. (MD) · 7. Union (NY) 6-0 7-0 1-0 7·0 7·0 6·1 Sophomore Rugger John Friske mauls Albany Old Green ad- versary ina recent home match. The rugby team faces Albany St. 9. Adrian CMich> 10. Susquehanna CPA) 6-0·1 6·0 6-1 5-0-1 at home ort .Saturday. · . ,, NO ' . . A dl m C(J of th Tl co pu se ·th ev pr ap of co thl ca GE ha ofl di: ml Ju lar At en1 co Kll of as1 for mE bu1 art COl Pt1 wi1 act '] wa the mu re1 -Pre \de neE wa reJJ cat Bw - - I

