>ute to 'et up a weight th the team Russ l Chris ~ relay rinston d .Jeff place lng for t place lard in .t toss 1t put in the Dave er run in the com- u.rday, to di.sap- and both Dut- high also the of Dut- 15 Julie .. 2 the 12.4 also in 80 and to op- of d's CXU; No .. 1.3. York February 3, 1983 Pre.sident John Morris was a key player in the .. 8par.d of Trustee' decision to raise costs · Trustees Hike Tuition· To Ove}'. $8,000 ByMARCYBl)RSTINER News Editor A decision was reached by the Board of Trustees last week at a meeting held in New York City to raise tuition from $7,300 _ to $8,050 in the 1983-84 school year. The tuition r~ise, plus an in- crease of $240 in room and board charges, in addition to increased cost of geJ:ieral ex- penses, will br~g the total cost of attending Union from $10,800 to $11,850. . According to Josef Sclunee, Faculty Trustee and Director of the Institute of i\,dministration and Management, there are basically three reasons why thi$ ·raise is necessary. The first justification is an \employee compensation package';. He eJqll~ined that in the past years, salaries for employees in the College, both faculty and ad- ministration personnel, \have been slipping irt terms of real income.\ The increase brings them up to the Conswner Price Index (CPI) that they should be making. · Increase bfSalaries An estimatecHiO percent of the total expense bUdget goes towards employee salaries. It has been determined that within a six-year period, there has been a 1.2 percent decrease in real salaries when those salaries are increased for in- flation; The Board of Trustees and the College Administration are apparently concerned over the fact that also within this period of time, our standing regarding faculty compensation has been declinin-g when compared to the compensation awarded at \similar high quality, ·selective institutions.'' \If in other words, you want a quality facultya•take the faculty that we have now-you .have to pay them,'' Gardner Ketchum, Faculty Trustee and Professor of Mechinical Engineering, explained. \The question,.\ according to President Morris, \is what kind of faculty do you want the students to have at Union? Do you want a high quality faculty with a good sense of itself or do you want a faculty that is poor quality with a low sense of it~· _ self?. Adequate compensation is absolutely essential.'' By raising , employee salaries 8.5 percent it is hoped, the President went on, that this will enable the school to draw new qualified faculty, maintain the quality faculty that it now has and, in addition, maintain a sense' of m9rale. The Board was concerned that the schools which we are vying with for high faculty standards, we are also in competition with for qualified -students. As Table I shows, Union has remained both below the median and the average when compared to the faculty compensations offered by similar institutions. A Matter of Pereeption In a handout entitled Background Information Relative to the Requested Increases in Tuition .and in Room and Board Charges for 19~3·84, the Administration mentioned a second reason for tuition increases, It seems that \there is a body of opinion that holds to the belief that a tuition set lower than one's competition is more harmful than helpful to the il'\stitution'·s competitive position. This view holds that the possible advantages of the lower tuition (its \bargain\ aspect) are outweighed by ~he folk wisdom that'lower pr1ce denotes lower quality. Further, dramatic annollDcements that an institution will hold the line or increase tuition at a sub- stantially .· lower rate than the competition often signals . .~·\\· \another college in trouble\ to tl;le publ•ic--both those con- sidering application for ad- mission and those to whom we might reach for support.\ With the $750 tuition raise, the college's ranking with regard to similar institutions will remain stabie. Financial Aid In order to offset the over $1,000 cost increase in attending · Union, the Board has set aside $350,000 from the additional revenue to go to students needing financial assistailce. Ellen Frishberg, Associate Director of Financial Aid, explained that with a tuition raise, increase in room and board, plus an increase in the cost of books and other ex- penses, $1,050 per student on financial aid must be made up. ''There are about 800 students currently receiving scholarship assistance. Obvio_usly if you figure out with simple arith- metic, 800 students with ·$1 000 cost increase, $350,000 doe;n't quite do it.\ In order to make up the dif- ference, the financial aid office must seek additional avenues for funding. It all depends she continued, on how ~uch students are willing to b<Jrrow, how much they are willing to earn during the swnmer and school year, and bow m1,1ch parents are willing to con- tribute. The Financial Aid office apparently would like to see the need for students to borrow money greatly reduced, but unfortunately they may be forced to use loans more and more as a funding alternative. As the Financial Aid office has stated many times in the past, Frishberg repeated, that \our first priority is the com- mittments we've made to students who are currently here, enrolled, and are receiving aid. We will not remove that committment from them to help them pay for their costs-whatever they may be.\ While reassuring current students at the College, she also added that the incoming fresh- man class will ·be \more severely affected by the in- ~ · creases . . . ·in that they will have to borrow more.\ More Homogeneous Campus One other concern over continued tuition hikes each year is that as costs and ex- penses keep rising, more students who are qualified to Continued on page 2 Freec}om of Choice, p. 3 -The Naked Truth, p. 6

Page2 OON008DIENSIS, February 3, 1983 Arts Renovations Pacifists on Draft Funding Sought By MICHELLE NOVELLE Staff The . Arts Department at Union has been r.eceiving much attention lately. Early in 1982 the College used $250,000 from its Kreusi Family Fund to begin the renovation. This first sum of money was partially used for what architects caU 'mechanicals.' Mechanicals include such things . as ap- propriate wiring, plumbing, and heating. A great part of this money was also used in meeting the health and safety codes, as well. For example an enclosed steel staircase was necessary for an easy exit if there was a .fire. Also, under the current law it is necessary to meet han- dicapped requirements when renovating a building. Therefore, Jll.UCh of the renovations made in phase I with the first$250,000 are hidden from the public eye. Phase n, which will hopefully be completed next summer, is being funded by money granted to the CoHege by the Kresge Foundation of Troy, Michigan. Tlie Foundation awarded Union $10(),000 for renovation of the Arts Building with the College ConUaued from page 1 come to Union will seek lower cost education such as the State University system. One ad- ministratol\-mentioned a major concern that qualified students who come from middle class families do not bother to· apply to private institutions qecause they asswne that the money is not there. Ketchum pointed out, \the students who can come are those who have ·SO much need that costs are covered and those who have no need, and it's the agreement that the College will raise $300,000 itself by July 15, 1983. \The ref ore,'' according to Dr. Thomas D'Andrea, the Vice President for Academic Affairs, \it has become necessary to alert both the faculty and students of the efforts that will be made this spring to raise the money.\ The College must also con• cern itself, at. this point, with funds for the beginning, and completion of phase III before the project will be completed. The College hopes to interest all those involv.ed with the arts, or those who would like to become involved, in helping to meet the condition stated by the Kresge Foundation. three-quarters of the student body is currently involved in some way with the arts program, whether it be through a course or extracurricular activities such as glee club; chamber music, jazz groups, dance, photography, art and the theater. Since .the arts have become such an i~portant department, the College hopes to · see everyone making an effort to raise the money which is neces~ry to have by July 15. Last thursday's series on Draft Re~dstance, centered on a discussion .of resistance and its relationship to the Peace Movement. Professor Larry Whitter,, Department of History (SUNYA), and Professor William Bristol, Department of History, (Union) shared their research, experience, and feelings about the two issues. Both men consider themselves pacifists and have ~en active in various aspects of the Peace Movement. This movement is by no means lacking a lengthy history. Dating as far back as the Bible and as recent as yesterday's news; the movement for peace has had a tumultous past. The Civil War, which marked the first draft in our nation's history, also marked the first large · scale draft resistance move .. Government officials estimated 200,000 men failed to report for military duty and not a single district througMut the country carried out the draft without some kind of resistance during the Civil War period. A great deatof this resistance was violent as well as non~violent. Thousands marched through the streets stealing, hurting and. killing in their protests. Costs Rise middle ground that parents and the students themselves are 1, going to have to. struggle to meet all the .expenses.\ What has . begun to happen, agree many administrators, is that the students · entering the College come, more and more, from upper class backg._.ounds. \We're seeing it already in that the income level of our students is increasing,\ Frish- berg concluded. \The lower levels are dropping off. We're TABLE I not getting the lowest levels income students applying, which upsets us terribly . . . it doesn't make for the diversity of the student population that we would like to see .. .it's not that the aid isn't available for these students-it's the media toot is doing a number on them and saying there's no money'out there, so they don't apply. They're self-selecting out of the process before giving us an opportunity to make an offer to them.\ According to Professor Whitt- . ner, \Only with the dispatch of some 10,000 U.S. troops, sent out from Gettysburg, was the rioting supressed. Officials estimated that 500 to 1,200 people were killed in these riots.\ In subsequent years, resistance to rflilitary service was not nearly as violent. This is. not to imply, however, that the draft had any more support than it did when it was· first initiated. When drafting began in World War l, at least 10,000 men failed to register. The Federal Government estimated ~that 338,000 men . who . did rtigister failed to show up for service, constituting U percent of the nation's draftees. Although conscientious objector .status had very limited parameters, 57,000 young . men' 'had registered as such. . . · During World War U, those figures stayed relatively con- stant with ·Conscientious Objector status dropping · to 37,000 men. Professor Bristol explained that objections to· war rooted in essentially political, sociological, philosophical or even personal moral .abhorrence would not meet the narrow requirement ~f Con- scientious Objector status. This status .could only be achieved by opposition to war firrnly based on religio~ convictions. This is not, however, to discourage those who wish to register as ·conscientious ob- je:ctors in our day or in any day. A conscientious objection to warfare of any kind is the right of all individuals. Objection to killing and being killed is no crime-the legal implications of resisting during consc~;iption, or even during- registration, are undeniably .complex, but there are many other ways for one to serve their country. short of combat. This brings resistance to the draft and the Peace Movement TABLE II .futo the same arena. Following World War II, pacifism took on a new .form. Different kinds of social struggle had. to be developed in order to allow peopl~lo fight for social justice. Non-violent resistance ·became popular inside pacifist circles .following policies initiated by Ghandi and his followers. , During the Cold War days following World War u, pacifism and non-violent resistance faded from the limelight. But with the outbreak of the Vietnam War millions of people rose out of submission to protest the ·draft. Qy 1969, the x:ioting could not be controlled. The Peace Movement · en- compassed by draft resistance generated. tremendous passion. 'l'be Federal Government could not maintain enoUgh domestic supp()rt to conti;nue in the war. , In this respect, many hold to the · belief tluit the Peac~ Movem.ent was indeed a major factor in bringing the Vietn~ War to an end. Thqse who contend tnat peaceful · protests, . non-violent resistance, and pacifism as a political strategy are · essen~ tially ineffective· must take American behavior· during the Vietnam War into con- sideration. Violence ;,~nd aggression are ·not the only methods to deal successfully with violence anti aggression. Ghandi is the quintessential example of this. Meeting force with force, an eye· .for an eye. These notions have pervaded· wars of all times. The question that the pacifist raises in this vicious cycle is an important one. What would happen if we stopped? This:frightens the foreign policy makers and. perlfaps correctly ·so. . But a balance. of . power which rests upon rni;;s.iles fQr peacekeeping cannot be rationally any less frightening. Violence and aggression are not the only methods for dealing successfully with violence and aggression. FACULTY COMPENSATION COMPARISON FOR SELECTED INSTITUTIONS 1976-77 & 1981-82 COMPARATIVE TUITION+ ROOM& BOARD FOR 1977-78, and 1982-83 1966-77 1981-!12 1'977-78 Institution Compensation Institution . Compensation 1982-83 l. Sarah Lawrence $7000 l. Sarah Lawrence $11., 750 1. Coluabia $ 28,868 1. Colu111bia $ 40.,500 2. Princeton 6695 2. Barnard 11,652 2. Lehigh 28,853 2. Brown 39,600 3. ·oartmouth 6645 3. Tufts 11,480 3. Corne:ll 26,554 3. Lehigh 39,500 .t. Brown 6625 4. Princeton 11,468 4. RoChester Urtiv. 26,221 4. Amherst 39,000 s. Tufts 6550 s. Dartmouth 11 ,450 s. Princeton 25,707 s. Com en 38,500 6. Cornell 6420 6. Brown 11,335 6. Brandeis 25,591 6. R.P. I. 38,400 7. Skidmore 6330 7. Columbia 11.322 7. Brown 24,934 7. Princeton 38,300 8. Brandeis 6265 8. Brandeis 11,040 8. Alllherst 24,682 8. Wesleyan 37,400 9. Columbia 6225 9. Wesleyan 11,030 9. R. P. I. 24,497 9. Tufts 36,400 10 •. Wesleyan 6095 10. Cornell 11,000 10. Wesleyan 24,356 10. Dart1110ut:h 35,900 11. Wellesley 6046. 11. Amherst: 10,900 11. Dartaquth 23,493 11. Trinity 35.,600 12. Amherst 6040 !2. Wellesley 10,890 12. Vassar 22,930 12. Wellesley 35,500 13. R.P. I. 6025 13. Smith 10,850 13. Clarkson n,s11 · 13. Williams 35,400 14. Rochester University 6003 .... 14. Mt. Holyoke 10,700 14. Colgate 22,607 14. Bucknell 34,200 15. Williams ' 5955 15. Williams 10., 625 15. Tufts 22,243 15. Worcester 34,100 {16. Uriicm 5950 ,. 16. Hamilton 10,600 16. Worcester Poly 22,234 16. Smith 33,900 17. Smith 5900 Skidmore 10,600 17. Union 22,146 17. Bowdoin 33,700 18. Barnard 5820 18. Boston University 10,S75 18. Wellesley 22,067 18. Barnard 33,300 19. Hamilton 5800 19. Vassar 10,500 19. Franklin & Marshall 21,826 19. Mt. Holyoke 32,900 ~It. HOlyoke 5800 20. BoWdoin 10,480 20. Williams 21,801 20. Clarkson 32,800 21. Bowdoin 5780 21. R.P. I. 10;290 21. Bucknell 21,773 21. Union 32,309 22. Boston University 5755 22. c;olgate 10,195 22. S.ith 21,685 22. Colgate 32,100 23. Colgate 5750 23. Univ. of Rochester 10,002 23. Barnard 21,592 23. Vassar 31,500 24. Vassar 5700 24. Trinity 9,950 24. Trinity 21,577 Franklin & Marshall .n,soo 25. Trinity 5620 25. Hobart ll W. Smith 9, 930, 25. Davidson 21,564 25. Lafayette 31 ,300 26. Hobart 5600 26. Union 9,9oo 1 26. !Wail ton 21,384 Davidson 31,300 27. Lehigh 5500 27. Lehigh ~. 820 27. Bowdoin 21,276 27. St. Lawrence 31,200 28. Worcester Poly 5495 28. Lafayette 9,580 28. Lafayette 20,756 28. Kenyon 30,800 29. Kenyon 5445 29. Bucknell 9,3SQ 29. Denison 20,591 29. Hamilton 30,600 30. l!uckriel1 5375 30. Worcester 9, 325 30. St. Lawrence 20,100 30. Denison 29,900 31. Hartwick 5350 31. Kenyon 9, ts5 31. Hobart 19,850 31. Skidmore 29,.300 32. St. Lawrence 5335 32. St. Lawrence 9,210 32. Skidmore 19.822 32. Washington ~ Jefferson 27,200 :;:;, Lafayette 5305 33. Clarkson 8, 960 33. Mt. Holyoke 19,759 33. Hartwick 26,,500 Clarkson 5305 34. Franklin & Marshall. 8,900 34. Kenyon 19,717 34. Brandeis .NA. 35. Franklin & Marshall S245 35. Oeni:ion 8,680 35. Hartwick 18,495 35. Rochester University NA. 36. Denison 5075 36. Hartwick B, 600 36. Washington & Jefferson 18,012 36. Hobart NA. 37. 11ashington & JeffeJ.'son 4850 :57. Washington & Jefferson 8,090 38. Davidson 4430 38. Oavidson 7,415 Median: $ 21,947 Median: $ 33,700 MEDIAN 5800 ~IEDIAN 10,490 ME.-\N 5819 MEAN 10,203 Average: $ 22,513 Average: $:53,952 Jan. 1'$)83 .Jan. 1983 - 1 co m. - A( is co ar of c~ Jli 0~ er bE s~ a to c< a fr 3( w bl 61 ci b d .p b fi 2~ b tl r a 1 b t t t t f t t

lowing ook on nds of to be aUow llSti-ce. ~came ;ircles ed by • > days r II, iolent 1 the :break ons of lion to ,9, the rolled. t ·en- ~ance lSsion. could nestic l war. to the ement tor in ·to an I that •iolent as a essen- take lg the con- and only :sfully ssion. :entia! !e, an otions ,f all the icious What pped? policy rectly for be g. and . ·coNOORDIENSIS, Febr-uary ,, 1~83 Page 3 Bookstore to Improve By GAYLE ROSENFELD Staff Running of the bookstore is coordinated by its present manager, Mr. Holly Greene. ·. According to Greene, the store is owned and Qperated by the College. All surpluses of cash are placed into the general fund of the college from which all campus activities draw. However, the· \store has to operate as a surplus generating . entity of the college. It cannot be supported by strident funds;'f said Greene. Thus it must make a profit for the· express purpose to maintain itself. . So where . does the surplus cash arise? The .bookstQre gets a discount on books artyWhere·- from 0 percent ·on pamphlets to 30 percent on trade books, which are larger than pocket books. However, approximately 64 percent of . the books pur- chased by the store are text- books where only an 18 percent discount is secured. When placed on the shelves, these books are marked up to their retail price. Unfortunately, only 20 percent of the books bought by the store can be returned to the publisher for cJ:edit. The rest are sold to used bookstores at a substantially lower rate. The store is left with whatever happens to be Jeft after these two transactions. In effect it breakS even on the selling and buying of books. Surplus; it seems, comes from the sales .of paper 1 stationery, food, etc. These items can be bought in bulk so the store can buy them cheaply and make some profit.· It is ironic that students complain about book prices while the store can only control the prices of other merchandise. Ev~n on these extraneous items, prices are no worse at the bookstore than any place else. . However, the campus store is attempting to cut prices. Used books have_ been appearing in the store ever since last spring trimester and they will continue to do so in larger quantities in succeeding trimesters. According to Greene, \We're going more and more into used books\ because of the exor .. bitant prices of books today. Currently, professors subrrtit their pook requisitions about three weeks prior to the coming· trimester. The bookstore em- ployees check through manuals that list what is available in the wholesaler's warehouse. Unfortunately, this system is not very .effective. The manuals become outdated quickly and one cannot tell what items were shipped into the warehouse on a given day. However, the campus store was able to buy a Lanier computer one and one- l'talf years ago thus eliminating this problem. This relatively new computer can be plugged. into any phone line~ Beginning this spring requisitions will be punched into tl'le computet, a '!holesaler will pick · out as many used l:looks as he can to fill the order and then he Will contact,. via a teletype or . some other apparatus, the publisher who will fully complete the order With new books. Obviously tl'tese used book dealers play an important role in this process. Presently there are three major· textbook Wholesalers in the country;. Missouri Book, Nebraska Book, and Follett, which is the publisher that Union deals with, These conapanies send out a group of salesmen to colleges who buy books from students at a rate that designates the marketability of the book ac- cording to the company. For instance, a Samuelson economics book isrworth more money to a wholesaler, for itis in high · demand. On average though, a student saves about 25-30 percent on buying a used bo,ok over a new one which makes the project more than simply a matter of saving a few pennies. Follett Will be visiting Union in Carnegie Hall on March. 16; which will allow students to sell some books which have been collecting dust on their book shelves. Follett was here only once last year but will begin to extend their appearances to twice .per year, therefQre signifying. the . growing market for used· book sales. - There are many problems with the used book industry morally and financially. Of the latter, the publishers are being hurt economically which may cause irreparable con- sequences. Greene expressed his concern when h~ com- mented . tbat one of two things may afflict the publishers because of used book sellers. \Either the publisher will ·be strapped for money for new authors,\ thus, a merger may have to occur to sustain a publisher or that publisher may be \acquired by some conglomerate, ha_ving nothing to do with the education field and be used as a tax write off. h GRADU,ATE STUDIES IN BIOMED·J·CAL RESEARCH Basic Medical Science Department Active Research Programs Seeking Qualified Applicants ~ Tuition and S'tipend Support Available For Further Information Contact: Graduate Comm i.ttee Department of Physiology Albany Medical College Albany, N.Y .. 1\2208 ( 518·445·5651) In either case the quality of books on the market zrnght be diminished. · However, this problem may never come to pa$s .for publishers are combating against companies such as Follett. A,s Greene pilt it, ''Publishers are getting wise and putting out new editions.'' If a new edition of a bclok coiJies out then the old one is of no use to used book sellers. It used to be that a book was revised about every eight to ten y..ears, but the publishers are· stepping up this process to every three to Continued on· page 4 Mr. Holly Greene of the campus bOokstore Family Planning Group Defends ·Choices By SH~RRY WEITZEN Staff The Fami·ly Planning Advocates of New York State Inc., held its 6th Legislativ~ Conference at the Empire State· Plaza in Albany on January 31 and February 1. Botb days were filled with events such as workshops in lobbying and the media, speakers, cocktail 'Parties, a chance to voice opinions to legislatQrs about the importance .of ''Choice~\ and the right of women to have the freedom to choose if and when they wish to have children. The introduction to the conference began at 1:30 p.m. Ol} January 31,. when Mary Linday, the· F.P.A. president spoke. After . her welcoming address, she introdnced . · the Honorable' Gail · ·Shaffer, Secretary of State; Warren· M. Anderson, the Senate Majority Leader; and Stanley Fink, the Assembly Speaker.. Fink em- phasiz~d the illlportance of the public speaking out to legislators and representatives in order to achieve goals. \If you think something is im· portant and you are•prepared to fight for it, come on in, jump into tlie pool, and let's swim . . together. Politics is really not such a terrible thing.\ Fink stated hisfeelings that.there are two distinct trends occurring today. The Reagan Administration, in order to ''pay off a debt\ to tbe Right - Wing, is implementing policies that \(you) can't do by statue, (you) do by regulation.\ The administration says it supports no government interference in family life, but this is only in the cases of finding ways to feed the young. The issue concerns notifying parents that their child 1 a minor, is .using con- traceptives, known as \the squeal rule,\ th.e present ad- ministration hopes to get in- volved. Fink stated that unlike this trend, the other trend is g4:1od and must be continued. Iil the United States, there has emerged ''the Gender Gap.\ Women, as wen 8$ men, are getting involved .in the govern- ment, by lobbying, raising funds and speak~g out in order to get across th.eir feelings on various issues. In essence, that was the purpose of this con- \'That is ()Ur task today, to keep _ abortion safe, legal, and available, '' ference. The highlight of the afternoon was the keynote speech given by Sarah Weddington, who is among the leaders in making abortion legal and available. She was the winning attorney in the Supreme Court Case, :Roe vs.. Wade, in 1973, when the Court granted \women the right to a legal abortion.\ Since then, ·Weddington has continued to be active in the fight for women's tight to choose when and if they want to be mothers.\ She served in the Texas Legislattll'e for three years, and in 1978 was apl)ointed by Jimmy Carter to be his assistant in the White House. Presently, she is in much demand throughout the country to speak on the issues concerning women, women's. rightsj and women in politics. Weddington, in her address, commended women for having come so .far in their fight for reproductive rights.· She proclaimed, \We are today the winners, abortion is safe, it is legal, and family planning is available.'' She- spoke on her involvement in the Roe vs. Wade case, giving the audience some background of w:Qy they filed for suit against the State of Texas law that made abortion illegal except when child bearing is lethal to the mother. They wanted to prove this law unconstitutional, and in so doing, the case was heard in the Supreme Court. In 1972, in order to get an abortion, Texan women went to Mexico or California. In so many cases, these abortions were unsafe and emotionally depressing for the women. Some friends of Weddington's approached her with the idea of setting up an Abortion Coun- seling Center, but they knew that this would be contested by the state. So Weddington and these women took on the case of Jane Roe, a fictitious name, in order to prove the anti-abortion law was unconstitutional. Jane Roe was a single, pregnant woman, who would lose her job if she did not have an abortion. The case was heard in Texas where the judges did declare the law unconstitutional, but they did not do anything about it, since no injunction was granted. 'Yeddington appealed to the Umted States Supreme Court to hear the case, thus c~nt~uing th.e fight against D1str1et Attorney Wade, and for Jane Roe's and all women's rights. Weddington described the court room, the atmosphere, and how she felt while arguing Continued on page 4 • NORTHWESTERN •'COOPER • PENN • VOlT •YORK • RIDDELL • KOHO 0 z :;) Ill :.:: i • C!l z, iS ..1 o( 0. •fn • z 0· U) ..1 i • Anaconda-Kaye Sports, Inc. 440 State Street -Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 5.18·382·2061 The Coac,hes Choice for Athletic Equipment ·SCHOOL DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE for: -Athletic Fo.otwear, 'Clothing, 'Equipment - T-Shirt Printi.-.g on Premises The Area 1 s Newest SPORTING GOODS.STORE - Formerly Fox & Murp~y-Downtown Schenectady .£::! J: • • ui Cana I Square ~ · ! OPEN MON.-f.RL .E\eni.ngs Till 9:00 p.m. ~ ~ z ~~~ilw~.iv~.~~~i1~1[1A~.silt~n~0~1~·--.,WNS~~~~~IW\\~.~~==~=-·--~~~--------------_jf •• 1:1311\!VH:l.• ~Si3'1.lU • .lSV11t31\3 • )ISS •

Page 4 OONOORDIENSIS, FelJruaty ~, 1983 Bookstore Changes Begun G.E. Program to Promote Teaching Continued on page 3 five years. The used book salesmen, as well as the campus store, is left with any Wled books if a new edition comes out, making the used book business a risky one. Another way that publishers are speeding up this revision process is by buying the author's book rights. The publisher can then revise the book without waiting for the author to do so. This brings the new revised teXt to the public quicker, thus helping to impede the used book companies. Not only publishers but college faculty have raised objections to used book sales on camp~&ses. Greene mentioned that the whole business \doesn't Sit weU with professors.\ Resentment --is prevalent amongst them because many of them are authors. The reason for this hostility is that used books do not secure the royalties that only new books do. Many authors make a lot of money on royalties and are angered, justifiably so, at this cash loss. \We're depriving that author of that textbook copyright royalties,\ said Greene. One final problem with these wholesales is that although the savings is better when more colleges get involved in the program, \more schools will compete with each other,\ said Greene, to secure desired volumes, creating a scarcity of available used books. As to the used book business, \I'm not saying that it ever will really put a crimp in the publisher's purse,, but it's inevitable, commented Greene. As to its future, one can only wait and watch. The store does not buy directly back from the students because there . is no space to store books in the campus store. As Greene put it, \We are just cramped now\ for space. It's the \biggest problem on campus\ and a partial solution will be that of renovation of the bookstore. On Wednesday, February 2, an. eirtensive renovation .of the campus store was begun. The program is being supervised by the Director of Campus Operations Jack Hill upon Greene's request. According to Hill, Greene wanted the renovation \in order to provide the number of books he felt was required and other merchandise he'd like to . provide.\ Hill has broken down the renovation process into two .phases. Phase I will include replacing all of the book bins in the store with \all free standing modular units that can be used elsewhere\ if need be, stated Hill. The new shelves will allow for a 33 percent increase in shelf space. A cubicle. will be erected in front of Greene's office where check cashing will occur. On Fridays, two express lines will be set up, therefore eliminating what Mr. Greene referred to as \an absolute chaos.\ Also a counter will be erected at the end of the shelf aisle where questions may be- asked. Phase Il of renovation will be ·primarily to make the exterior of the store more attractive. This will be accomplished by plantings, possibly new doors, painting, elimination of the turnstyle in the bookstore now., PARENTS WEEKEND May 6, 7, 8 Make your plans now! and various other changes. However, this will all be done over the upcoming swnmer. The total cost. ·Of the project will be about $4,500 for car- peting, construction, and similar pr~edures plus $20,000 for new shelves. All of this By JAMES CARL Staff money wiU come from the New summer research grants bookstore:s 1982--8~ budget. are now available to juniors in \We're trying to make it a lot the science and engineering easier to shop in the store,\ fields in the form of the General stated Greene. \Students want Electric ·Expanded Horizons us to carry more and· more Summer Research Fellowship stuff\ and With this increased Program. space we will be able to. With Each year fewer and fewer the aisles being widened and the Science and Engineering new book shelves the whole graduates choose to go to project will create 31 percent graduate school, since starting additional space. More salaries in corporations are so browsing type books will be enticing. Premium .salaries are stocked .along with more also drawing the science and merchandise available. As Hill engineering faculty from the ~cominented, the'· purpose teaching field. According to of the renovations is \to im- Professor Charles Scaife, .....-become acute. Union plans to combat this problem by in:.stitu.ting the ~:xpanded IJor~ons Program, which seeks t,o encourage students to enter graduate schools and enter the teaching profession. The goals of the program are to ·send students to ·research laboratories of major univer- sities .for an intensive exposure to the excitement and Op- port unities of a career in research and teaching. In ad- dition, Union and the host universities will closely cooperate to enable the sUilli:fier experience to continue through prove the quality of service that director of the program, 10 _ th'e following academic year. Union 'College faculty members will be involved in the research the bookstore can offer. By .percent for all engineering making these changes they're professorships are now vacant. going to be able to provide more As this trend continues the books, more shelf space, and a shortage of science' and more open atmosphere.\ engineering professors will Italian Term Abroad Courses Lacking By MIKE ANZENBERGER Staff._ Students, having their in- terests sparked during a term abroad in Italy, return to find Union void of courses in Italian. Many students have wondered why Union offers a term abroad in Italy, but only one course in the Italian Language here at Union. A student, having been ac- cepted to go to Italy, is allowed to take the school'-s only Italian course (Italian 10). Once a student completes introductory Italian, he or she is ready to go to Italy. Once in Italy, students take courses in contemporary Italian civilization, Renaissance Italian civilization, and another course in basic ~talian. These courses (including Italian H)) are funded by the Term Abroad Program, and are in no way connected with the Department of Modern Languages. Many participants in the Term Abroad Program ·have been under the false assumption that it is a part of the Modern Languages Department. The primary purpose of the program is to give students a first-hand education of a culture different from our own. However, in order to benefit from this experience, one must have a backgrqund in the host country language (as is currently offered). projects to aid the students in· their preparation for the summer program and assist in their involvement after the students return to Union. Thus, the Expanded Horizons Program is -more than a SUII1!l1er job, in. ·that the sum- mer research will be continued at Union through the students' senior year, and the Union faculty will be seriously in- volved in the projects. The program seeks to promote the exchange of creative ideas between students and faculty. The General Electric Foundation's initial $65,000 grant will be used in the following ways. Each student selected will receive a $2,500 stipend plus the cost of travel to and from the host university. The participating departments at Union and the host university will. each receive $500 to cover any additional · research · ex- penses. Each Union supervising professor will receive $1,250 to aid the student during his-her continued research at Union. FPA Lobbies Lawmakers This reporter went to the Chairman of the Modern Language Department, Professor An tiOn Warde, in , order to find out why Italian courses are not offered at his department. The answer is quite obvious: lack of funds. Prof.essor Warde currently manages his department with a minimal amount .of funds, and does it with the highest stan- dards possible. French, Ger- man, Spanish, Russian, and Hebrew is the greatest diversity that may be offered within his budget constraints; that is, while fielding the fullest programs possible. With the much needed increase in funds to such areas as computer science and engineering, it is not likely that any expansion of the Italian program will occur. Six juniors in the departments of Chemistry, Computer Science, Electri-cal Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, ·and Physics will be selected on a highly com- petitive basis. This February outstanding students will be nominated by the faculty of the five . departments. A selection committee will then conduct interviews of the nominated students during late February and early March . .Recipients of the research grants will be informed by mid-March. Continued on page 3 the case. \I had thirty minutes to argue the case of Roe vs. Wade. I can't tell you what a heavy burden I felt that mor- ning, becam;;e of the knowledge of how many thousands of people had invested time and effort in the case and would. never have a voice for them- selves before the Supreme Court, and I kept thinking of the many people who would be affected by the decision who would never have a voice in the Supreme Court except insofar as I was able to represent them.\ In her closing remarks to the court, she emphasized the importance to women of having the ability to decide when and if they want to have children. \Because while we ..are today struggling to become in- dependent, to become women who have full rights and authority and control ability, we cannot make the decisions that count about education or about employment, or about family structure or about our economics unless we can also make choices about our reproductive futures. Women have a right to choose for themselves.\ The decision was handed down on January 22, 1973, and the court has not wavered on it since then. Weddington stated her concern that five of the nine justices are over 70 years old, and if Reagan becomes reelected, he might have the chance to get his majority in the court. In order to inspire a fight to maintain the victory gained in the case of Roe vs., Wade, she concluded her speech by saying, \With the kind of power and the kind of winners who are in this room today, we can keep abortion legal. That is out task today, to keep abortion safe, Financial Aid Seminars Feb. l·-Davidson Webster Feb. 3--Fox Davidson Lounge Fox Lounge 2nd Floor South Lounge Richmond Basement Lounge Feb. 8--West Feb. 9--Richmond, North 1 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. Feb. 15--South 2nd Floor Lounge 7:30p.m. Feb. 16--Hickok Hickok Basement Lounge· 7:30p.m. Feb. 17--0ff Campus, Greeks StrauS's Lounge 7:30p.m .. legal, and available.\ Upon ending her speech, she was awarded the Margaret Sanger certificate of ap- preciation for her contribution to \choice.'' Editor's note: The second part of this series, in next week's issue, will examine how the Reagan Administration is conducting itself in regard to the issue of women's right· to choose whether or not to have children. Any inte:cested class of '84 students majoring in a par- ticipating department are encouraged to contact either their department chairperson, or Professor Scaife at 6341. CAMPUS NEWS. BRIEFS On Monday, February 7, at 8:00p.m. in Memorial Chapel, Dr. Joseph Sisko will speak on the Middle East: Will U.S. Policy Succeed? - Sisklb is a leading expert on the Middle East. In 1973, as principal advisor to Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, he participated in negotiations ending hositlities to the Yom Kippur war. And in 1970 he was instrumental in warding off the Syrian invasion of Jordan and personally negotiated · . the Egyptian-lsraeli Cease Fire ending the \war of attrition.\ Dr. Sisko's presentation at Union is the second Anwar Sadat Peace Lecture, spOnsored by the College History Department. For further information call Professor Donald ThurstQn, Chair, Department of History, at 370-6220. T!le Alumni Council is urging semors to run for the positions of Class Representatives. The Council is the governing board of the Alumni of Union. Each graduating class elects two Representatives to the Council. These alumni, through com- mitt~ work . and periodic Council meetings, provide an important input to the College decision·making process. Elections for the two positions will take place . on Tuesday, February 15, on the 2nd floor of Carnegie Hall, between the hours ~f 9 a.m. and 4:30 p.lll. Nommating petitions will be available in the Alumni ·Office on Monday, February 7, and Tuesday, February 8, and must be endorsed by 25 class.J;Ilates. Petitions must be returned to the Alumni Office by 3 p.m. on Thursday, February 10. The annual meeting for all the Terms Abroad will take place on Thursday, February 10, in S.S. 016 at 4:30 p.m. At this meeting, students can acquaint themselves with the social and academic opportunities available for the academic year 1983--84. Students and faculty who have been on the various terms will describe each of. the programs and answer questions. This is the only time all year when prospective students. have a chance to hear from fotmer participants about the programs. The programs to be offered in the academic year 1983-84 will be as follows: fall term, France, Italy, England. Winter te1'11l programs will take place in Atnegs, Greece, a kibbutz in Isreal, and Seville, Spain. The spring term abroad will take place in Vienna, Austria.

·o ng. tt this g Ute 1gram, urage ,duate :.Ching ,mare search miver- posure d <)p- er in In ad- host los ely mmer trough year. mbers ;earch nts in · the sist in r the rizons an a sum- rinued dentsJ Union ly in- The te the ideas culty. ~ctrlc ~5,000 1 the :udent $2,500 tvel to ~rsity. rnents ersity eover · ex- to teal will com- be the of be '84 par- are the in this and the in in in OONOOBDIIilNSIS, February 3i 1983 Page 5 FEATURES Humor - The Nankin Alternatives By MATT NANKIN Staff Tbe following Nankin editorial was first aired this past Sunday on the. 6:15 WRUC news. It is .printed here in Its entirety. In recent months, the MX missile has consistently been. in the news. ·OriginallY, it was to be shuttled about on railroad tracks in the desert. Then President Reagan came up with \Dense Pack,\ where many missiles would be placed on one small area, However, Congress would not accept this latest plan, and the :President has made an urgent plea for anyone who has a better suggestion. All I can say, Mr. President, is, ''Glad you asked!\ Below I have developed three possible solutions -to the MX dilemma that deserve some thought in the Pentagon. overlooked in this whOle MX debate. I am referring, of course, to America's great .sewerage system with a plan to be known as: \S·ewer Pac.'' Several In.isslles could be placed· in the sewerage system~ of aU cities and towns that have such facilities.. With each rainstorm, the missiles would be moved naturally underneath our streets. In addition, the Russians would never be sure just where themissiles are located. Although the MX might reek of sewer stench, this would be an !idded deterrent to the Russians who will not want smelly missiles landing in-their ..,country. 3.) As a variation of the Dense Pac, I propose a more sensible solution - !'Football Pac.\ I propose that Qrte MX missile be placef.d in each and every football end zone in the country. This proposal would apply to professional, college, and high school fieMs, malting the number of missiles so tremendous and spread out that the Russians would be · powerless if they ever do choose to eliminate them. The only disadvantage to this plan would be the concern of wide receivers who might \go out for the bomb'' and wind up running into one. · Why have I bothered to come up with solutions to the MX problem? The truth is that I believe if a gpodenough solution can be found and the U.S. is made invulnerable,, then an Americanrinitiated nuclear war would actually be desirable in testing new weapons systems, eliminating the unemployed, and showing the world that America is not going to be kicked around anymore. -This is Matt Nankin With one man's <>pinion. Note: The opinions and views expressed by Mr. Nankin do no necessarily represent the opinions or views of Pearbrook Birnbach, WRUC, or Con- cordiensis. Willie iyler anc;i Lester will be speaking on Friday, February 11, at a p.m. Their talk is sponsored by Speakers Forum and B. L.A.S. Willie & Lester also performed ventriloquism in the film, \only it wasn't Lester, but instead a Viet- namese figure.\ 1.) Put the missiles, as the original plan stated,, along the tracks for which they were intended. However,, instead of the desert the MX could be placediri the subway systems of such cities as New York, Boston, Philadelphia and Chicago. Since subways are notorious for running late, the Celebration! Willie Tyler and Lester will be speaking in Memorial Chapel at 8:00 p.m. on Friday, February 11. Their talk is co-sponsored by Union's Speaker's F.orum and B.L.A.S. Tickets are on sale now at the Student Activities Desk, and cost $3. It's no wonder that Willie Tyler, America's foremost ventriloquist, is known by audiences from coast to coast. Not only does Willie and his human-sized sidekick Lester regularly work in Atlantic City, Las Vegas, Reno and Lake Tahoe with such stars as Sammy Davis, Jr., Ann- Margaret and Tom Jones, but the ·popular duo has performed concert dates with everyone from Lena Horne to Kenny Rankin, Martin Mull to Grover Washington, and Jose Feliciano to Crystal Gayle. · How did Lester evolve into his present personality? When Willie Tyler was ten years old he sent away for a correspon- dence course on ventriloquism he bad seen advertised in a ''Popular Mechanics\ magazine. \You know the type,\ explains Tyler, \learn to be a ventriloquist in five easy lessons!\ He then proceeded to make his first figure by cutting a mouth in one of his sister's dolls and attaching a string and rubber band to it. Tyler's very first figure was actually Jerry Mahoney, ordered from a New Jersey supply house. \I painted the face black, but you could still tell it was a Jerry Mahoney · Russians would never know when the missiles were at which stations. Either the missiles could be attached to the beginning of regular subway cars (as decorative ornaments) or they could be run on their own separate cars, In the event the Russians do ever attack, they will actually be doing America a favor by destroying ol~ dilapidated urban subway systems along with the derelicts and degenerates that regularly inhabit them. · 2.) Place the missiles in an underground network system that has been conspicuously Listen to W . .R. U. C.'s award-winning Sunday Night 6: 15 News. Find out more about the Pearbrook BJrnbach Kidnapping _Case. By DAVE FITZGERALD Staff , On January 26, 1983, the ·Eastern New York section of the American Chemical Society held its 75th anniversary dinner at Hale House. In attendance to help · members of the organization celebrate was Dr. John Morris, President of Union College, and. Dr .. Fred Baslo; President of the- American Society. The Eastern New York section had its first meeting on December 16, 1907, in the Chemical. Laboratory of Union College. Dr. M~ster ... T. Bogert, President of the American Chemical Society delivered an address on \Stereochemistry\ ·at the first meeting. A charter was granted to this new organization and the first of- ficial meeting was held on January 24, 1908. In the years after its foun- ding, the Eastern New York sec'tion held an average of seven meeting& a year. The organization membership of the organization grew s,teadily in its early years. Electric City -Comics & Magazines- \ ' 1704 Van Vranken Ave. (corner of Mason & VanVranken i ust 4 blocks from campus!) Featuring:· -new comics: including. Camelot 3000, Moon Knight and other Direct-only books. -back issues: over 40,000 in stock -fantasy magazines: Elfquest, Cerebus, Heavy .metal -alternative publications -underground comics: A FULL LINE PHONE 377-1500 Hours: 12-7 Tues.-Fri.; 11-6 Sat . On December 16, 1932, the 25th anniversary of. the section was celebrated. Every attempt was made at this meeting to daplicate the conditions that existed at the first meeting. Dinner was served to the members in the old chemistry lecture room of Union College, at a cost of 85 cents. The group held family picnics in 1950, 1951, and 1952; In 1946 the organization ,considered publishing a monthly publication but the idea was dropped because of a lack of interest. In 1955 the idea was revived and became a reality with the publication of monthly news letters. The ·Eastern New York section of the A.C.S. has attempted to be bOth a social and professional organization. Professional growth has been a major concern of the organization. During the 70's a series of short courses were offered by the organization \to provide an opportunity to acquire knowledge in some of the newer· areas of chemistry.-\ To insure that accurate records of the organization's h~story are kept, Schaffer Library has been named the depository of all the group's records. This article has been a short history of a group founded at Union College, that had a modest beginning but has grown. to a membership of about 900. Union College has played an important part in the development of this organization and in the development of .professionalism in th,e surrounding area. Willie and Lester made their first national TV appearance on the Merv Griffin Show, which was quickly followed by stints on the Mike Doublas Show and the Tonight Show. The two have since made guest appearances on many TV specials, were regulars on NBC's Laugh-In and guested on The Jeffersons. Tyler's talents don't· stop at ventriloquism, however. He's also an accomplished singer and composer who performs his original songs in nightclubs, concert engagements and on television. \What Goes Around, Comes Around,\ one of his compositions concerns \the cycle of life,\ according to Tyler. \When you're old you want to be young and young you want to. be old. The grass always seems greener on the other side.\ Tyler, a Detroit native, is also an excellent actor. In Coming Home. the Academy Award-winning feature- film starring Jane F.oilda and Jon Voight, Tyler played a hospitalized paraplegic veteran. \I had to spend all my time in . a wheelchair,\ recalls Tyler, who The President's Commission o4'n The Status of Women at Union College Luncheon Colloquium Series Winter Term 1983 Tuesday, February a; 1983 1 'THE JOY OF MONEY\ Financial Guidance for Women Lisa Queeney Investment Executive First Albany Cor.poration Johnstown, New York All events will behe.ld in the Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall; 12:30 p.m. Bring a lunch-Coffee and tea provided All are welcome to attend figure!'' . Willie and Lester got their first training on the amateur circuit during high school. When Tyler joined the U.S. Air Force the two worked together entertaining servicemen, and it was there that he developed and perfected his technique. Once out of the service, Tyler made the rounds of small local clubs in Detroit. While playing a summer engagement at a resort in Northern Michigan, Tyler's big break occurred. An executive from a growing record company named Motown was in the audience and immediately signed Tyler to a contract. He and Lester toured the country with the Supremes, the Temptations, Stevie Wonder and others. Recalls Tyler, \We were all unknowns at the time.\ With that beginning, Lester and Willie moved on to the big time. Lester became more and more hip! \Lester has always kept up with the times,\ ex- plains Tyler. \When Afro hair styles became popular, I gave Lester an Afro. Now he's wearing a cap because that's the style, and it gives him more character, as do his glasses!\ Lester is much more of an extrovert than I am,\ states Tyler. \Most ventriloquists are like that. They let their figures assume a totally different personality than their own.\ Tyler admits that Lester is an extension of his own per- sonality, \like B.B. King and his guitar Lucille, or Liberace and his piano.\ Willie Tyler and his wife Elaine reside in Hollywood with their two sons. Lester, who also resides in Hollywood~ is single, but definitely looking! After the show,~ there will be a reception for Willie and Lester. A sign-up list for the first twenty-five students is located in Mrs. Marra's office in Car- negie. ·

. . . Page 6 -DONOORDIENSIS, FebrtJary S, 198S FEATU.RES a ·- ''The Naked Truth'' Reve·aled r· c.~llege Qrinki'ng l ' By JlJLIEDEL DEO Staff Last Friday Dr. Jean Kilbourne gave an entertaining- and enlightening presentatian entitled \The Naked Truth:' Advertising's Image of Women.\ Her presentation captivated the speechless audience as she pointed out the sophisticated techniques of advertising and its tremendous power over the subconscious mind. Dr. Kilbourne pointed out examples of destructive ad~ vertisements to make the audience aware of the problem. Dr. Jean· Kilbourne spoke at Memorial Chapel last Friday. Consumer awareness, Kilbourne pointed out, is of major importance in the battle of overcomi_ng the ad- vertisements' power. Kilbourne's objective was to point out exactly what problems eltist in advertising and why we should be concerned with them. We must, Kilbourne said, examine our cultural attitudes and study the influences on them if we are to be able to control them, to alter them in a positive way. M.edia has become a very powerful form of education in society: Kilbourne pointed out that advertising .in particular, which _is presently a $60 billion-a-year industry, must be taken seriously. It not only has the ability to inftuence us to buy products that are - harmful, but can. get. us to buy .products we do not even need. Most importantly, advertising has inescapable effects on our cultural attitudes. In her slide presentation, Dr. Kilbourne impressed upon the audience how advertisers use so,phistlcated techniques to appeal to the subconscious. With tremendous amounts of money put into the advertising industry.-o.ften reaching several million c;iollars on a single campaign-one can be sure that the ads are planned to the last detail. The. advertisers geartheir ads·tohe·pickedup by the subconscious as quickly and as effectively as possible. Kilbourne went on to say that, unf()rtunately for women,, the advertisers prime motivation is corporate profit, not human need. Dr. Kilbourne presented a series of magazine ads, and explained how they com- municate stereotypes that perpetuate the role of women in society. Women in these ads were misrepresented .in terms of age, roles in life, intellectual ability, and independence. Women were seen to be able to functiononly under or .for men, unable to cope on their own. Dr. Kilbourne went on to show ads that depicted women as. dismembered, tortured, beaten. and sexually violated. Even worse were ads that exhibited the female child as a seduc- tress. The mood in Memorial Chapel went from shock to horror as Kilbourne read facts Energy Crisis The energy crisis is a subject rivaling most people's interest in styrofoam art, ice fishing, and major league baseball in Mexico. Nevertheless, the New York State Energy Office prepares a report on this situation bi-annually (or every two years, whichever comes first). The goal of this plan is to .. reduce dependence on petroleum ''through increased conservation and maximum diversification of the state's fuel mix.\ Although this may not seem incredibly earth shattering in itself, what is surprising is that the plan differs from what one would consider to be the traditional view of government. For example, nuclear power is being de-emphasized tintil· the many problems associated With it are brought under control. The Planning Board. has recommended that no new power plants be built until that time. Conservation and renewable resources are ex- ,pected to be more a part of New York State's energy future. Undoubtedly this article has not slaked your thirst for knowledge in this area of concern. Fear not, gentle reader. On February 7, at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, Chuck Guinn from the NY State Energy Office will be discussing the plan more fully. It · is sponsored by the Student Environmental Alliance. Refreslnnents will be served just in case you have no othe; reason to show up. All are in .. vi ted. GATESMAN Applications are available in Admissions and Student Activities. DUE FEBRUARY llth Remember Your • VALENTINE! Ci.rcle K Flower Sale • Thursday & Friday .. Feb. 10& 11 ., • 10:30-5:30 Carnegie Hall ' that reflected the images upon the realities: Over 40 percent of aU women murdered are , murdered by their husbandS--a- · figure that goes to 60 percent when lovers and boyfriends are - included-and, one out of. every four women is the victim of sexual abuse during her c~ldhood years. _ Advertis'ing; Kilbourne contended, because of its enormous impact on everyday life and its values, is r~sponsible for promoting violence, sexual abuse in- cluding the murder of women. She pointed out that for any group-~whether racially, culturally or religiously defined-sucn advertisements would be unacceptable; yet for women, advertisements con· · tinue to present female stereotypes. Not_ all advertisements present bad images Of women, Kilbourne said. There are some whicb present men who are occasionally partners in household duties;. female children a·re ..... sometime$ depicted as. adventuresome and creative. Most. encouraging, said Dr~ Kilbourne, are the occasional ads which show women as. friendly and sup- portive of each other~ This helps destroy the myth of women as constantly competing against each other, which is common in many of today's ads. How can we change and control the powerful suggestiveness in the ad- vertisements? Dr. Kilbourne said that awareness of the problem will reduce the problem somewhat. The destructive separation of feminity and masculinity as. promoted by advertising is a negative influence on .society. To completely eradicate the problem, Dr. Kilbourne 5aid·, society must have a change in attitudes thai- will help to \create a balance.\ APPLY BEFORE FEBRUARY 6th! Orientation Committee App- lications are Now Available at the Student Ac- tivities Ticket· Booth Applications are due Feb.ruary 6th so apply as soon as possible! (CPS)_;The number of students Who drink alcohol,...now estimated at 82 percent of the approximately 12 mHlion college students in the nation- may have leveled off for the first time in two decades two . . ' umverstty researchers report. Moreover, .alcohol abuse and th~ .. side-effects of- heavy drmkmg have also steadied. for tne first time in years, ac- cording to the preliminary results of a study of over 5000 college students in all 50 states last semester. The nwnber of students who ~ink has been rising steadily smce the early 1950s,. numerous studies and surveys over the years have found. But now, the first nationwide survey of college drinkers in- dicates the 20-year rise in the number :of student drinkers may have. reached its apex. ''There have been a number of regional surveys done .over the years, but because they were all done by different researchers in different parts of the country, they lacked con- tinuity,\ explains David Hanson, associate prof-essor of saciology at the State UniverSity of New York College at Potsdam, who co-authored the study along with Indiana University health and safety Professor Ruth Engs. Based on research Engs had done in the mid-seventies, the two researchers say their new study points to a -significant leveling-off in drinking and alcohol abuse QY $tudents. Engs and Hanson noted only a marginal increase in the level of student drinking, far below the rate of earlier years. And while the number of drinkers appears to · have peaked at 82 percent, Hanson and Engs add that heavy drinking. and .problems associated with alcohol abuse- fighting, lateness to class, · and damaging university property- are also leveling off. Hanson th~s part . of · the reason for the leveling-off might be because students are sub- stituting other drugs, such as marijuana, in place of drinking. Also, he Says, with such a high level of students drinking already, any increase in drinking levels will most likely occur more slowly than in the . past. . The study ~d find disturbing mcreases m some areas, though. The number of students who drive while drinking, for · in- stance, has increased from 26 percent .in the mid-seventies to over 45 percent last fall. And tbe number of students reporting hangovers and other post- drinking health problems jumped from 57 percent ,to over 66 percent in the same period. Wom,en who labeled them- selves as heav-y c:lrmkers also increased from jtrst under five percent in the mid•seventies to over 11 percent, though the study found more men than women drink. ~ong · the otber findings: white students drink more than black, religious students ctrink. less, and. the lower a student's grades are, the more apt he or she is to be a heavy imbiber. And . even if, as the study suggests, student drinking has leveled off, college officials still have to deal with significant problems related to campus alcohol abuse. Accidents, vandalism -and other crimes, and even oc- casional deaths have moved many campuses to institute new., get-tough drinking policies over the last few years. Arizona State, for instance, has stopped selling beer at the school's stadium to help cut clown on student -alcohol con- sumption. Administrators .at Babson College have instituted a new drinking policy forbidding beer kegs in residence halls and fraternity bo~es, and .banning all public <lrinking- on carnpus. At the University of Pitt- sburgh, where a football .player fell to his death last month after drinking at a campus party' offieials are developing tougher alcohol regulations and may even place a \moratorium\ on student parties. And a Youngstown State fraternity recently held its second '~dry rush\ in a year .. New members like the idea, says Sigma Alpha Epsilon President Dennis Demartino, and members' grade point averages have · increased dramatically since the \no alcohol\ policy was instituted. _!}[fusions 'Vni$tx $lait Studio • 10% STUDENT DISCOUNT • TWO BLOCKS FROM CAM PUS • NEWEST IN MODERN HAl R STYLES PHONE: 381-6268 5191ower Union St. Jeanette Massaro Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 v The Dutch Hollow· Pub. ~ '1fl Dutch Hollow Pub will be open for Four seemngs 11) on Saturday night for Dutc.hman's Night. The .seatings will be 4:3p, 5:00, 6:30 and 7:30 p,m. Reservations for Saturday Nights will be taken o~ Wednesday and Friday afternoons between the hours· of 1 and_ 4:30 at the ticket booth , Camegie Hall. RESERVATIONS A~E REQUIRED TO PARTICIPATE! Dutellman's Night is availcible to 19-meal plan holden twice a month; and to 14 '\d 10-meol plan holders once a month. Don't Forget!! I Make reservatiOns You don't have to feel left out II early, bring your meal card and·I.O. , ·you'~e not on a meal plan. We'll and prepare to enjoy youraelflll glad,ly acrept c;ash reservations loo,

t - ••••• ll'bing 1reas, s Who >r in- >m 26 ies to 11dtne Clrting post~ >I ems >over erlod. them- ; also r five ies to 1 the than lings: !than ctrink ient's he or :bet. study g has s still ficant mpus -and 1 oc- loved titute >licies ance, tt the , cut con~ t:bson new beer and Pitt- after may on its .. \no - ' OONOORDIENSIS, February 3,. 1983 Page 7 .. f Being Your Brother's ~eeper By DAVID Fl'rZGERALD Staff Big Brotbets·Big Sisters is an organiz.ation created to aid children of \one-parent familie$.\ Many .children have needs that cannot be met by the single parent alone. Each Big Brother-Sister is a volunteer who devotes time each week to be with a troubled child. It is an attempt to compensate for tbe absence ·of the missing .parent. Such associations often prove to be mutually beneficial. ''I find having a Uttle Brother to be very rewarding,'' states Tom Megerian, a sQphomore at Union and a Big Brother. ''Being the ~oungest child, I always wanted-a little brother. This .program is the best way _ for me to accomplish this. In addition, it allows me to per- form a service for the Schenectady community.\ Becoming involved ·is not difficult, Potential applicants first attend an orientation meeting. .From there can~ didates hiive an extensive in- terview with members of the organiZation.· Puring tbis session, as much as possible is found out about the candidate,... personality, goals ln the program'; type of little brother or sister desired, bobbies, in- terests, etc. At this: pDint the decision is made whether to accept the applicant. · If accepted, the candidate is placed on a waiti:ng Ust!llltil the organi~ation can malt.e the best match-up between Big Brothers and Sisters and their ''siblings.•: · Soon after the candidate meets his-her brother-sister. · , From then on the Big Bvother- Sister visits him-her periodically. The main concern is spending .time together. Almost any activity will suffice, with the more time spent together the better. In addition to the aforementioned one-on-one Big Brothers-Big Sisters program, • there is an additional program conducted in group form. The same application process is involved, with the. exception that Big Brot}1ers-8isters are immediately put into tbe program. The group includes children who are either waiting to match-up for Big Brothers- Sisters, or childFen who have social ,problems and cannot act properly when in a group. This program was also praised by Jennifer Cornell, a Union student involved in the Group PrQgram: , \I find the program very rewavding, especiaUy when. you are able to see~ the changes occuring in the kids-in par- ticul!ir your own effect upon them.. In addition, the .program is away to be exposed to what is occuring in Schenectady. This way you are not dosed in to just the campus commWlity. One also gets a different perspective as to the lifestyles of other people, including those who are living in poverty.\ FEATURES I Humor . Policies Set - By KELLY SPRINGFIELD Two stringent new policies of the freshman administration of Dean JoeMammolaprovide for $50 fines to· be imposed upon the violater of either of the two new campus conduct rules. The initial rule has been imposed to bring ·campus drinking habits under the state's new guidelines; any campus member who dispenses alcohol to minors or any minors who consume alcohol on campus are subject to the fines. Secondly, any person who has a pet on campus is .subject to a fine of the same amount. Has our first-year Dean become inebriated with his new- found power? Have our rjghts a,sstudents gone to the dogs? To answer these questions, I met with the Dean to determine the intent (or lack thereof) of these new .policies. · KS: Dean Mammola, would you.say that your recent actions can be interpreted as the genesis of a \big brother\ policy of your regime towards the students? JOE: (he laughs) Kelly, that would be a severe misin- terpretation of these actions. Actually, they are solely designed to raise additional revenues for the school. KS: Revenues, sir? Then you are not actively trying to reduce the number o{ teenage tipplers or four-legged friends on our campus? JOE: Correct. Let's face it Kelly, your generation has been getting tanked at high school keg parties since you were in ninth grade. Now, I'm supposed to seriously try and stop seasoned elbow-benders from drinking when they're eighteen? No! We might as well make some money off this reality. fo . . . ' r KS: And the dogs, sir. You are not concerned with the com- plaints about these furry vessels of love and com- panionship? • f\' ,. ' ' • )<- •• ;;-o:- -~: -: ··:::- 5(t: t ·.;_.;;~~-·-,;: .-.:-:.:.·;·>;~~-·:c(···,:;.:- !--?~~~~ ·: 0 ;?:-::,•~;:;:t·.{~:,;':j:-;..-·,:-ii;. :_;. ::·;,-:_.', ··-.:-/~< :..:::._t, .:: :·~ •. ~-:~~ .,::...,..;.;.,~. ,·.h.- -.. .. -.•:· •, ••:• -.i -~~· , • ~--· ~;- :~ • , ~:: '._.. The finest ale .brewed and bottl~d ill Canada. Imported by Martlet Importing Co. ,Inc., Great Neck, N.Y. © 1982. JOE: Complaints? You gotting be kidding me Kelly. Do you honestly believe that Schenectady residents have been calling me because they feel we have too many dogs? I simply made that up because I know that individuals are about as likely to give up their beloved pets as they are their drink. I rather think of this as an en- tertainment tax than as a fine for a violation. KS: Well Dean, I must say that this is quite a surprise, not to mention a relief. For a minute there I thought you were trying to control us. Might I ask what other \fines\ you are considering fDr the student body? JOE: I'm not at full liberty to say, but the most ingenious idea we are just about to approve is a fine on all Friday morning absences. We've contacted Barclay's and understand they have no intentions of discon- tinuing Thursday night $1 Iced Tea Nights, and we further hope to keep the Pub open until four o'clock. This would increase the number of absent students and significantly add to our revenues on Friday alone. KS: This is all very in- teresting, Joe, but how are the students suppDsed to foot the bill? JOE: A very good question which we have already studied. we·found that at least 80 per- cent of the student body can just \reach out and touch daddy- kins\ for the bucks. The other 20 percent we will allow to defer payment until graduation. At this point, they must come up with the cash or forfeit their diploma. We like to say in the office \no denaro, no diploma\ as a kind of joke. Believe me Kelly, no matter how poor a-_ student is, he'll find that money for his $1000 in fines to get the diploma without too much llf a gripe. I guess for some reason .students want to leave here as soon as they get their diploma. KS: I can't argue with you there, Dean. I wouldn't doubt that the dogs feel much the same as the students.

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, February 3, 1988 ~JlltClltbirttsis Fourukti at Union Col/~~ 187i ~---------- ------~--- ' Elitism The Minerva Seal, symbol of the College, claims that ''We all become brothers under the laws of Minerva.'' Our founding fathers apparently supported the concept of education available to all. · By increasing costs duririg these harsh economic times, the Board of Trustees is throwing this noble ideal out the proverbial Window. The tultiori hike, coupled with increases in general expenses, brings the total yearly sum to attend this respected institution close to- twelve tho\.l.sand dollars. The monies are primarily slated to offset a 1.2 percent decrease in real employee salaries. To paraphrase a Faculty Trustee, ''If ... you want a quality faculty ... you have to pay ... '' We recognize the diffic'\llties of recruiting and keeping talented scholars in the face of competition from other institutions and industry. As for the • 'body of opinion that holds to the belief that a tuition set lower than one's competition is more harmful than helpful .... , '' we turn our heads a way in disgrace. Keeping up wiUl the J oneses is all well and good when we are dealing with lawn furniture. - But, what is at stake are our futures and, excuse the flag waving, the future of our nation. <~P . The cost increases wUl deny a Union-quality education to an entire economic class of students. Quite frankly, only the rich wlll attend the College. The additional $350,000 allocated for financial aid will not offset this trend, especially in the face of federal and state threats to eliminate grant and loan programs. As students, characteristically naive and ideal, we see a larger quesUon. Are salary increases absolutely necessary in these times of little inflation ap.d high unemployment? The alternative is support of an ideal close to two hundred years old--universal opportunity in education. If you want a quality student body, from all walks of life, you have to pay. Wolf Pack The Federal government intends to intrude upon our reproductive freedom. The primary tactic is not legislative action, but regulation by agen_cies. _ The issues of family planning are of concern to both sexes. Non-profit clinics, the likes of Planned Parenthood, provide invaluable services to a college community. With the reorganization of the Department of Health: and Human Services (DHHS), we find Peggy Heckler and Marjory Mecklenburg at the helm. This is like appointing ·wolves to ensure the safety of chickens. · ·· · Both women are lackeys of the Reagan Administration striving for the reduction of family planriing funding. · The DHHS has begun its moral crusade with the so-called \squeal\ rule; a regulation, not law, which calls for parental notification in the case of unemancipated minors seeking contraception at a federally funded clinic. On the agenda are guidelin-es designed to hinder the actual operations of these clinics by making them cost- ineffective and reductions in programs providing care for , pregnant women. What is especially infuriating is the DHHS' denial of its ''review'' obligation. The agency must, according to law, open for public review a.ny proposed regulations. The ••squeal\ rule received so much negative response in the form of letters that the DHHS shut its doors and denied access- to . . the material. This is a perfect example of the gall of DHHS officials and the~r flaunting of the democratic process. Along with our State leaders, we encourage all to speak out against continuing encroachments upon our freedom. !To quote Congresswoman G. Ferraro, ••we're under seige.\ . Intelligent Commentaries are welcomed by Concordiensis Call 370-6155 Conce~:ning Sexual. Ha.ras·smenl · To the Editor: I I encountered a' very depressi.ng lncident last Thursday night, one which proved to me just how far the attitudes . toward women have actually c.ome on this 'Campus. I was sitting with a friend at a certain fraternity party wh~n he and I both heard female screams .conning fronn upstairs (we had been sitting on the . steps themselves). They weren't playful, giggly- screams, they were frightened and frightening. We both ran upstairs, and we were met by a locked bedroom door and two males guarding the door. My friend took the initiative and. asked what was wrong, and if there was anything he could do. The two guards, both of whom appeared to be very drunk, told him to mind his own business and started to push him around; preparing for a tight. They knocked the drink out of his hand and physically harassea him. . At that moment, a member -of the house who· was holding the party came along, assessed the situation, and told us to forget it, it wasn't im- portant, and to go downstairs. Unfortunately, for the safety of my friend, we had to acquiesce, Granted, I do not know from whom those screams came, or if . they were actually the screams of rape. However, I will wager a Help· ·Available To the Editor: A number of Union College women have been receiving harassing and disturbing phone calls during the last few weeks. Any student. who receives· such calls may receive help from the New York Telephone ~usiness Office (dial 1-890-6300) . Assistance may also be provided by. the Schenectady Police Department (374-7744) or by Union College Security (370- · 6178).. Anyone receiving such calls, or having information about the ·calls, is asked to contact the Dean ·of Students bffice in Carnegie Hall. 'l'bB.nk: you, Joseph Mammola Dean of Students Intramural Fee Usage . To the Editor: Last, week in Concordiensis · there seemed to be some question as to how intramural fees should be spent. The an• swer to thiS question is quite · · simple; the money should be used to improve the intramural program. Even · thoug~ Mr. Sakala · is proud of . his ~\very · healthy intramural budget'', we see no need to spend. money frivolously on parties for em- · ployees for ''a job well done\. . The pay they receive should be • sufficient· to encourage such an effort. If Mr. Montana wants to use intramural fees for a part,y, perhaps he . could invite the . teams that didn't forfeit during the season. Probably the best · u8e for- the money, though, would be the purchase of sorely · needed intraiuural equipment. · I Sincerely, . Intramural Participants Fox Dorm guess that there was a woman being molested in some foml. or another in that room. All evidence point~ to this con.:.. elusion,. -.. As chairperson . of the Women's Network, I am outraged and disgusted ·by the faetthat such attitudes towards women and _their SEJuality still pervade our society. I had heard stories of such incidents on campus, but they h~ld little meaning for me until I · enq countered it personally. 1 .felt absolutely powerless. on Thursday night. I know that I should have called Campus. Security, but it ~seemed like a depressingly futile effort. I wish I too had said something to the \guards\ of the room, but I 4on't doubt that they ·-would have knocked me around as willingly as they -did my. friend. What else can one do .in such a situation? A rhetorical q~estion indeed, for it seems thatin such small, · isolated incidents, there is vety little that one individual can accomplish'. , Sexual harassment on college campuses is an alarming pnenomenon. It occurs in significant proportion~:~, not only at fraternity. parties, and not only in the form of rape. Sexual harassment is any ploy un one's sexuality, With intent to black- mail (as in aprofessor holding.a grade above a student's head until that student· concedes to tlie professor's wiShes), tease, embarass or simply violate. Nothing · condones such behavior, and yet,· seemingly, there is little in our social • framework that condemns it . either. · · · ·· It is :im_portant to ,set <»ur· priorities straight. It is my rigbt .. as a woman and as a hmnan being to live .in a safe, secure • envirorunent,. without the worry of being assaulted . by people who consider mY sexJtality nothing more than a tr.ifle. As a concerned feminist, I am certainly more cognizant of $Uch attitudes and I am better able to recognize and fight them when they affect me personally. • But ther.e are too many women • at Union who aren't as capable of ~rceiving such attitudes and, as a result, these women · are the unwitting victims· of . harassment. The time has come · for us, . ~th as members .of a campus community and as meml)ers of a· soCiety, to become aware of all forms of se;ltuai harassment, to report .all· incidents we encounter and to · take necessary action against the offenders. If we remain apathetic and refuse to acknowledge the existence of-· such offenses, we will only wind up being the victims of our own negligence. Sincerely, KarenPau~ Letters to the Editor must be .. submitted to Concordiensis by 7:00 p.m. on ~uesday vt!DtD IN/)1 ~I()\ ,~~.,..; ' C!oncor ~·~lt bttn:stit o:l~§.t~ o~, .... ~ o . ~~~·lT'~,. ~\'IGTA'D~' Editors-in-chief A.J. Brodsky, :btartnePavacic Managing Editor Julianne Abelman News Editors Marcy Burstiner, Doug Landon Edi~orialPageEditor- D.C •. Ow~ns Features Editors Nonnll!l Blrnl>ach; Do_nna Getson Arts Editors Glenn Krutoff, Roberta ~ubinstem Campus Page Editor Cindy J. Tenner Associate Campus Page Editor Jill B. Kaufman Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rick Sapir\' Layout Advisor Peter Mohr Subscription Editor Gregg Shack PhotoEd!tor · PatriciaE.Sacks Associate Photo Editor Mary Phillill$ Sports Photo Editor Robert Tang Political Cartoonist David Neiblum Staff Debbie Albert, Mike Anzenberger, Jan Baran, Jay Baruch. Paity Callahan, Scott Collins, . Michael Devito, Kathy Duffy ,'~avid Fit~gerald, Cathy Gifford, Lynn Hano; KathyKevean~y, Ted Kendris, _ R;obln ~ing, S~~Kone, Daphne -Shig~s, Pam Meyer, Tom Miller,.Dav1d Murray, Matt Nankin, Michelle.Novell_e., JoanO'Conrtor, JenniferPaston; Nancy Pettinella, Steffi Propos, Gayle Rosenfeld, Amy Schachter; Franklin Schneider, Laura Shapiro, Gregg Shack,Susan Singer, Jeffrey Steln6erg, Judie Steinhardt, Bob Van Voris,.PeterWeishart, Sliel'ry Weitz~n, Scott Wykoff, Dave ~uckerberg PhotoStaff · Peter Cloq.se, Brian Bilsback~ Russ Fein, Jon Heimer, Paul Klein, Chris Lacy, Susan Mettler, Sue Serenska, Gregg Shack ~ CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student f body of Union College, carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New Yprk 12308; Publications Office: S.,Wiquehanna Publications, Inc., Box i388, Sidney, New York t3838J (607) 5fia-715t Entered in the 1 Schen~ctady PQst Office as if!iri.sf. class mat~er. Subscription r.ate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anyWhere in the United States. . . . . · CONCORDIENSJS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News BW'eau (CNB).· Office Telephone • 37M155

- ts - :as~ •. late. IUCh agly, >ciat. s it t1ur· !igh.t. man (!ure Drry ople llity. As a am : of ~tter · b. em ally, · men able 11des men· ; of orne ()f a as . to .s of t.all• d to tinst ilain to ~- of \ind. own ~ely, · ?aul ' OON()ORDIENSIS, February· 3, 1983 Page 9 ,. More· ·On lntramurals To the .Editor: ~ We would 'like to express our dissatisfaction with your report on the Intramural Department. finance procedures .and on your methods o{ analy2;mg and ob- taining . information. What is your problem? ! . How do you dare make generalizations on the overall bookkeeping ability of any department based on one minor characteristic .of it~ Your . report on th~ handling of forfeit fees is true. They are kept under lock and key in the Intramural Department and are not returned if a te~;ttn forfeits one. game. However, in no way is the handling. of forfeit . fees any indication ofthe handling of the entire intramUllal budget ... You have m> right to insinuate that, and I quote. \on the whole; Intramural office boOkkeeping is an accountant's nightmare\ and \few records are kept and finances handled un- professionally.,; The method which. you used to deduce these accusations was extremely uqprofes:;ional. Forfeit fees area minor ~rt of the activities which Bob Montana _ oversees. In .proportion· to his · entire Intramural budget, forfeit fees .add up to less than one percent of the budget. In tne past U has been handled as a petty cash fund and was used for a departnlental party, to paint the intramural Qffice -and to purchase new equipment. At no time was any ofthis money U$ed for anything outside the department. 1 At the .present, Bob Montana and his workers are working on a -better system. However, whether the money is taken straight from forfeited checks or from an Intramural forfeit fee account is a matter of semantics. We feel that Adam Brodsky's and Jeff Steinberg's methods of analyzing the · forfeit fee .situaHon was a reporter's. \nightmare.\ You did an in- justice to Bob Montana and the Intramural department as a whole. Your efforts · were not appreciated. May we .suggest that you evaluate the credibility of your data before you make gerieral accusations. Sincerely, Stephen Novak Gary Wenner Russ Wenner Trimester vs. Semester ' To the E<U.tor: There has been serious discussion of late concerning the conversion from our present trimester system to the traditional4-4 semester system. I am ·curious to know exactly what advantages. this. con- version could have. To begin with, as a Gatesman, I am in contact with prospective freshmen. Most of Union's JQ.any attractions to these students revolve around the trim.e&ter system. and could not be feasibly implemented into the semester system. One of Union's most ad- vantageous features is the close student-faculty relations both in and out of classes. With a change in th(}'system, class size . would ineVitably become .larger and faculty would be busier. Also, more classes would have to be offered per term which would: result in either hiring more faculty or increasing faculty courseload. There is also difficulty in the science and engineering curriculums. Labs will have to be entirely altered and major renovation will have to occur in order to accommodate the added la:bs per tenn. This will be a large financial burden on the College. . Problems in general· core requirements will also occur. Either fewer courses or doubling ·will have to be required fot:- majors since the total number of courses will be decreased from 36 to 32. Also, mandatory theses and projects will have to be offered as op- tional since a commitment of a full year )s not practical yet 15 weeks is inadequate ·time. Union is one of few un• dergraduate institutions which has mandatory theses, which is a plus when looking for a jqb or applying to graduate school. Liberal learning requirements would also have to be either decreased or deleted entirely. There would not be enough time for students to take courses not pertinent to majors, This would decrease the quality of · the Union graduate since one of Union's proudestfeatures is the diverse knowledge aU students obtain. Lastly, an extremely at- tractive and important feature at Union is the Tenns Abroad program. This program would be hurt, not necessarily because of a lack of programs to offer, but because long term liaisons abroad will be severed, and also, students wUl not be able to afford (academically) the time loss of one~half an acadeniic year. (4 out of 8 co\ll'ses as o,pposed to 3 out of 9). These are some of the many disadvantages of a conversion of systems. It seems im- practical for Union and would take away inany· of Union's distincy and. attractive qualities. The cost of added paper . work for three terms instead of two is minimal in comparison to the amount needed to renovate both physical structures and the academic framework; Union should remain on a trimester system for the benefit of the student and the College itself. Respectfully submitted; , Christine E. Shaffer '85 Self-Control Urged To the Editor: audience. Fortunately for Matt, other than just a pair of slightly I have seen a lot of silly and dented glasses, he appearea to rather stupid things occur suffer little harm. Whoever around campus, especially hurled that shoe to hurt was during the weekends where downright malicious. He could students tend to be looser. But, have been charged for damages nothing- as mean as what I . inflicted should Mr.· Nankin witnessed happened at last suffer any facial cuts including Saturday's 11 p.m. movie. the possibility of loss of sight Our funny pre-movie host, from broken glasses. I hope Matt Nankin,. was.inadvertently future movie crowdS would hit on the head with a boot have a little more self control if thrown by someone in the ~tt decides to continue his announcements. Mr. Nankin and a few other students are giving a little extra so that going to the movies is fun again. But, we do not . tolerate any acts of aggression where someone may get hurt. I· hope that the culprit responsible or anyone considering such violence would go see movies somewhece else. · Signed, Projectionist The History Department Presents · Dr. Joseph Sisko The Middle East: Will U.S. Policy Succeed? Monday, February 7 at 8:00p.m. Memorial Chapel Everyone is We·lcome -For further information call Professor Donald Thurston, -370-6220, l)ept .. of History. COMMENTARIES • Editorial Criticized To the Editor: After reading \No Fee Hike;', an editorial·about student ac- tivities fees that appeared in Concordiensls last week, I was filled by feelings of anger, disappointment and dismay. Concordiensis' rationale is that since other college costs are soaring, the student. . activities budget should be held constant as a means of coping with the perceived \waste\ at Union. As a member of the Union Ultimate Team for 4 y.ears, the President and officer of the Outing Club for 3 years, a for.m.er chairperson of the Student Environmental' Alliance, and an avid lecture and concert fan, I would Without a doubt support; a huge increase in student activities fees. This is easily understood if one realizes that: 1) I have spent more than half my time at Union (not h_alf my free time, but half my total time) involved in some sort .of extracurricular activity and 2) the friends I've mad~, the skills I've acquired and honed; as an organizer, participant and instructor, as well as the high level of physical abilities that I've developed, are actually of far greater importance and relevance for later life than is the other \educati()n\ that I've received at Union. I've obtained jobs and have been accepted into special academic programs and internships, not because of some meaningless G.P.A., but rather due to the fact that my non-academic pursuits con- vinced employers and super- visors that I had ''something · extra\ to offer them. When you leave Union, it is the experience of these ac~ tivities that will stay with you and contribute to your per- sonality and your lifestyle. After four years and over 60 Outing Club trips, I can recall something interesting and enlightening that I learned on any one of those trips. Can any of you tell me what you discussed in class even last week? The facts and theories that you ''learn\ today during your academic year, while perhaps interesting and stimulating, will most likely be forgotten by tomorrow. Waste. You want to talk monetary wastes at Union? Just look at your tuition bill. From that $7,300 this year and the 10 percent increase next year comes the natural gas to keep our buildings heated to 80 degrees when physically it is he~thier for you to live and work at 65 degrees. From that $7,300 comes the incessant and poorly-planned repairs that this college makes to its grounds and physical plant. From that $7,300 comes t)le grant-in-aid jobs where students are paid to sit and actually accomplish little or nothing. You pay for overly lavish employee parties and administrative costs that are among the highest in the country (due to the 3, term system). Most obviously, you pay absurd prices for the privilege of sitting through a never ending array of com- paratively worthless courses and professional insouciance. · Coneordlensts should be directing its investigative abilities towards these problems rather than a $12 per term increase . The lack of interest in alternative activities is ap- palling and destructive. Eliminatiilg money for new ideas and acitvities will cause further decay and stagnation in a college that already suffers mightily from these af- flications. I can assure you, you'll get more from the $36 per year increase in activities fees than the $750 for tuition. Yet, you'll get nothing except larger bills if you continue to refuse to stand and fight. Your ad- ministrators are out of touch and too conservative. Your student forum is too powerless. Your newspaper, which ought to . serve as your spokesperson and your advocate, is working against you. It is you, the student, who must make the decisions because it is you, the student, who suffers the con- sequences. Walk into President Morris' office or the nearest dean's or administrative office and say, \This is my school and my money and I'm tired of the way you are mismanaging them both.\ We, the students, should have a direct say in how the monies are allocated around here. There is no reason that we have to take this bullshit. It is our right. Sincerely, Mike Farber Movie Date Altered To the Editor: 'Qle showing of The World According to Garp, was can- celled due to a scheduling error l)y the film distributor. Garp will be shown on Tues., March 8; Midnight Cowboy, which was scheduled for March 8, will be shown Thurs., March 10. The Film Committee is sorry for any inconvenience. Thank you, The Film Coinmittee CLASS of '83: ELECTIONS FOR THE ALUMNI COUNCIL · Will Take Place on Tuesday, Feb. 15 between 9 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. on the 2nd floor of Car.negie Hall All nominees should submit their pictures and statements to Concordiensis by 7 p.m. on Tuesday, February 8. Arrangements for photographs can be made with the Concordiensis staff. Questions should be directed to Edie B-erkowitz, Director of Alumni Programs, at 370- 6168.

•: '. Page 10 At Proctor's: Student Rush Progralll Arts Club PRESENTS By DEBBIE ALBERT and STEFFI PROPOS Procter's Theatre in Schenectady, New York has just implemented a Student Rush Program. This is' a program in which college students in the Capital District area are able to go to the Theatre's box office one hour before curtain and buy tickets at half price. A student is , permitted to buy two tickets with their I.D. We were able to learn of this program through Jean Carney, · a student at Union who is working as an intern in Public Relations at Procter's. This program benefits everyone involved. First of all, students are able to obtain good seats for a show at the last minute and therefore do not have to worry if they are going to be able to attend. Secondly, the per- forming company will be playing to a full audience and Proctor's will be making money on those seats that would othe:rwise have not been sold. Therefore, Proctor's main reason behind this program was not due to financial difficulty. Tile program has been going At The Egg Albany-Because tickets for Wind in the Willows at the Egg are almost completely sold out, the Empire State Institute for the Performing Arts has scheduled an additional per- formance of the musical adaptation of the classic story by Kenneth Grahame. For the extra show, Sunday, February 6, at 2 p.m., members of the company have agreed to donate their work to benefit an exchange program between ESIPA and the Honolulu Tiieatre for Youth. Edmund Waterstreet, from the National Theatre of the Deaf, directs Winds in the wmows, the beloved fantasy tale of woodland creatures. Members of ESIPA's resident company play the roles of kindly Mole and clever Water Rat and wise Badger, who jQin together to save their friend Toad from his crazy love for fast automobiles. Tickets are available at the Community Box Office or at the Egg box office, (518) 473-3750. For any further information, call 474-1108. Tickets are going fast, so don't wait. JUST JACKS Monday & Wednesday S-7 p.m. $5.00 A II the TACOS you can eat Tuesday & Thur$day All the BUFFALO STYLE WINGS you can eat 5-7 p.m. 5 5.00 323 ERIE BLVD. ' on since November with the play Oliver. A press release has . been given to The Concordy and posters will appear on campus. However, the program will not be overly publicized. ch·'ris Hol'der Saturday Fe:bruary5 8:00P.M. Cabaret Room The list of upcoming shows at Proctor's includes per• fonnances by: Marcel Mar- ceau, Steve I...andesberg, The F.elt Ballet, Bow Wow Wow, The Schenectady Symphony Con- cert, The Minnesota Orchestra, Sherrill Milles, and The Jack Daniels Silver Comet Band. Also, the following plays: Man of LaMancha, Children of a Lesser God, and E:vita. All in all, the Student Rush J?rograr.n appears to be very beneficial for Proctor's itself and those college students in the Capital District. Performing an even.ing Of contemporary•folk songs, stories, broadside ballads,. t~ll tales, and a sampling of his own witty, sometimes outrageol)s composLtwns. · Pick Up FREE Tickets at the Ticket Booth . . . This Desk can Reach Mach 2. Some desk jobs are more exciting than others. As a Navy pilot or flight officer, your desk can be a sophis- ticated combination of supersonic jet air- making authority. craft and advanced electronic equipment. But you can handle it. Because Navy flight training gives youth~ navigation, aerodynamics and other technical know-how you need. In the air, and on the ground, you have management responsi- bility from the begin- ning. And your responsibility grows as you gain experience. No company can give you this kind of leadership responsibility this fast. And nothing beats the sh~er excitement of Navy flying. The salary is exciting, too. Right away, you'll earn about $18,300 a year. That's better than the average corpora- tion will pay you just out of college. And with regular Navy promotions and other pay increases, your annual In return, N a.vy aviation demands something of you as an officer: Leadership. Your path to leadership starts with officer training that's among the most demanding in the military. It's intensive leadership and professional schooling combined with rigorous Navy flight training. And it's all geared to prepare salary will soar to $31,100 after four years. That's on tgp of a full package you and other college graduates for the unique challenge of Navy aviation. The program is tough but rewarding. One important reward for Navy officers is decision- of benefits and privileges. · Before you settle down to an earth- r ;;.V-;0;;0;;~;; - - - - W-:61 INFORMATION CENTER I P:O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 D Please send me .more information about becom- I mg a member of the Naval Aviation Tham. (0A) I N ame'___.,;;;--c-~------:::::--:---=i\;... First (Please Print ) Last I Address'-----~. Apt. #•---- City• _____ State•-~-Zip>~-- Age•-- tCollege/University• ____ _ :!:Year in Collegeo.___~+GPA.~---- .A.Major/Minor'--------~----- Phone Number·.,-,-~~--=--=-~~~ !Area Code! Best Time to Call 1 I I I This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to I furnish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we know, the moTe we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi· L tions fa~ which you qualify. . . . J -----~--~--- bound desk job, reach for the sky .. Reach for the coupon. Find out what'it takes to be part of the Naval ·Aviation 'Tham. You could have a desk that flies at twice the , speed of sound. Navy~·. Get Respons1billty Fast.

LQg ' . OONOOKDIENSIS,. F~brw:try 8, 1983 Page 11 THE ARTS At Utlion- Disney· Art· Collection If you're hunting for something unusual to do, it's open season on ducks, mice and wabbits--wacky wabbits,. Uke Bugs Bunny! · . . In fact, more than 250 unique and often humorous eel pain~ tings of cartoon. characters like Bugs Bunny are the sut>ject of a speCial exhibit and sale. Union College will . host this event Mon . ...:Tues., February 7--8, :1.983 from 9 a.m. until 6 p.m. in the Strauss Lo~gth Carneg(e Hall. The public is invited. This event wni benefit · the Student Activities Board, the sponsor .. Anim·ation eel paintings, called ''eel~'', are the paintings actually . filmed in making animated cartoons. Each character is painted by ha~d on a clear sheet of acetate, usually 11'' x: 14'' .or larger, then placed against a backgrounQ painting and phOtographed, one frame at a time, to create the illusion. of the cartoon characters in motion. Cels · are the culmination of the· artistic process--the final image that is photographed by tl;l.e camera. Today those . eels are mghly prized by collectors. The current exhibit was authenticated by Gallery Lain2;berg of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, an organization that specializes in original animation artwork. A re~;~resentat~ve of Gallery LaJnzberg will be on hand to answer questions. The Exhibit-sale highlights the work .of two superstars in the animation field: Chuck Jones and Friz Freleng. Both animators are veterans of the golden · era of cartoons at Warner Brothers--the 1940s. Both have contributed much to American --popular ,culture. · Freleng dreamt up Tweety and Sylvester and the irrepressible Yosemite Sam. Jones gave life to Wile E. Coyote, the Roadrunner and Pepe le Pew. Both artists helped to shape Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck and many others. Now tn their 70s, Freleng and Jones· have con- tributed their considerable talents for over half a century. Both have received Academy Awards {or their achievements as animators, but their original artwork has rarely been seen. The EXhibit features signM Bla:c.k :Hi:story Month Black History Month will be celebrated at Albany Public Libr~ry ?uring February With mustc, film, art, and a com- munity calendar. An exhi~it of -work by local black artists, supported by Black Dimensions in art can be seen in the first and second floor display cases of the Main Library, 1!61 Washington Avenue, through February. Hours are. weekdays from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., 9 a.m. to '5 p.m. Saturdays, and 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Sundays. · Classical pianist William Eddins will present a concert in the. Main Library at 8 p.m. Fnday, February 25. The pro~ram is sponsored by the Friends of Albany Public Library with support from Meet the Composer, Inc. The - program is free and op_en to tlfe publlc. · . The Autobiography of Miss \Jane Pittl:p.an will be shown free at 1 p.m. Sunday, Februar:f2f in the Main Library. At 3 p.m: that afternoon! awards will be presented in the YWCA Famous. Black American Essay Contest. Dr. Frank Pogue is guest speaker. . The library has printedand'is distirbuting ·a comprehensive calendar of community events in celebration oJ Black History Month. Free copies are available at all branches of Albany Public Library and various 'Community locations. The disepveries continue .. and unsign-ed eel paintings by the$e two superb artists. Also featured is a collection of eels from some of Walt Disney's best-known animated films including \'l'he Jungle Book\' ''Robin Hood'' ''Rescuers•1' ' . ' and the very recent ''The Fox and the Hound;'. A selection of vintage Disney animation drawings from the 1930s and 19~0s, including a few choice drawings of Mickey Mouse, will al.$o be available. Original Disney artwork has been treasured by collectors ever since the late 1930s when San Francisco's Courvosier Galleries first offered eels to the public. In recent years, collectors' interest has broadened to in• elude many . other studios. According to Charles Solomon Writing in the L.A. Times ( Jun~ 29, 1982), \Prices for material from other studios, especially Warner Brothers and the Fleischers, are also rising rapidly. However, it is still possible to obtain first-rate examples of animation art for less than $50.00-in some cases for less than $25.00.\ The current . Exhibit-Sale provides an exceptionally broad range of animation al1:. More than 25 different productions HOW'S YOUR PERSONAL LIBRARY? Did you know there~s a ' : ~econd\h<;md book shop on-ly , one block frQm campus? Our stock of thousands of · out.of-prin.t volumes, entirely free of textbooks and . paperbacks, is fre~uented by both stvdents and professors who are building libraries. We're open every afternoon, . and welcame browsers. Somers Bookshop 841 Union Street (.across Gillespie) Bugbes The company's long history of will be represented, including eels from \The Secret of NIMH\ \Gnomes\,· and \Tom and Jerry''. Fleischer en- thusiasts will be treated to meticulously hand-inked eels of Betty Boop, Krazy Kat, and other popular 1930s stars, For the Fantasy buff, there is art- work from \Heavy Metal\. With the growing interest in o~iginal animation art, ·many people are investing in eels. A?cording to Gall~ry Ulinzberg Dtrector, Edith Rudman \People love the characters they select. Many people like the idea of owning their own fragment of American film history. And, of course, part of the attraction is the potential for appreciation. A signed Bugs Bunny we were offering at $65 Photographers,. Poets, Writers Feel Free to Submit Any of Your Artwork to- the Concordiensis Just send it to Concordy, Box • No. 2577 or Drop It Off On · Fourth Floor carnegie-If you . want anything returned, · .please le.Lus know. ' In 1947 a man fie~ the Flying. Boat, \Hercules\ - the largest airplane in the world. The man was Howatd Robard Hughes. His ingenious ideas and explorations brought new discoveries in aerodynamics, communications, avionics: electrol)ics: .. -technological firsts, including the first working laser, first 3-D radar, and first synchronous-orbit spacecraft, position Hughes as a world leader in today's electronics industry. Company-wide opportunities: Hughes Story. Write yourself in. Hughes Corporate College Relations Dept. NC, Bldg. C2/B178 And the early years of Hughes Aircraft Company. Today, Bughes no longer builds airplanes but the discoveries and exploration of ideas continue, .. • Electrical, Mechanical .• Manufacturing or .Industrial Engineer.ing • Materials • Computer Science • Physics • ln·ctustrlai/Eiectronic Technology Reqytrements may vary. Check with your placement office for more details. -Find· out how you can be part of the continuing Hughes Story in twelve So!,.lthern California locations and Tucson, Arizona. P.O. Box 1042 El Segundo, CA 90245 Hughes representatives will be on campusF b 14 e ruary · (See your placement office for an appointment) Equal Opportunity Employer U.S. Cilizenshlp Required Cr~ating a net~~ 1110rid with electronics r------------------, I 1 I HUGHES: I . I ~------------------j HUGHES .... IRCR.A.FT COMPANY Write_yourself in. four years ago now sells for $135 to $175. In addition to the growing number of private collectors, institutions have accumulated impressive collections of animation art for public display and study. Substantial collections can be found at New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Museum of Modem Art. Special exhibits were recently held at the Library of Congress and at important museums such as New York's Whitney Musemn of Art and the Montreal Museum of Art. In addition, many universities and colleges, including Princeton, V~ssar, Syracuse, Johns Hopkins, Rutgers and Oberlin have begun to build eel collections. That wacky wabbit and his friends have come a long way! Includes: · I •·Round trip airfare (N.Y.)* I • 7 nights accommodation 1 • Parties •Sports I I I I I • Activities I More! - I I 0 MAR 06-MAR 13 [J MAR 27-APR 03 I I U MAR 13·MAR 20 lJ APR 03-APR 10 . 11 MAR 20-MAR 27 0 APR 10-APR 17 I I 0 I'm Ready to Party! I 1 I've enclosed my $50 I I deposit and have checked . my week. 1 1 0 Almo~t ready. Send I more 1nfo. I ·Add $40 from D.C., Hartford, I I Philadelphia, Boston I • Plus 15% tax and service I Name I I Address I I City State __ I JZI I I . P Phone __ _ I Oeparture • City I I. El:lt'!!i.~vuc. ~ J 501 Meidl son-Avenue I New York, NV. 10022 L. !212l355-47.os (6001223·0694 I ----·---- .. · SOME NIGHTS · Out (from out-no- where)side I reach a- , round you- r shoulder watch(night)ing an illicit ,passing By Glenn Pearl I

, Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS, February \3 1,988 CAMPUS NEWS INTERNSHIPS For IDformaUon oo lnter&e ships, contact tbe Career Center. New York City Urban Fellows Program--College seniors, recent graduates, and graduate students-highly competitive program involving work in New York City government full-time September-June. Fellows participate In seminars which focus on public sector fiscal and management. issues and which serve as an introduction to public administration theory. Stipend plus benefits. Deadline: March 15. New York City Management Intern Program--College jWliors, seniors, and recent graduates--work ·in - city government full-time mid-JWle · Wltil mid-August. Applicants must have pennanent home address in one of the five boroughs. Stipend. Deadline: March 1. Metropolitan Museum of Art- Summer internship for juniors and seniors. Work at Visotors Center, give tours and gallery talks, participate in project. Must have strong background in Art History and an interest in the hwnanities and museum education. Honorarium. Deadline: March 1. Wed.lko Summer Program-a service for. emotionally disturbed children, is seeking applicants for swnmer em- ployment and practicwn ex- perience. Devereaux Foundation Institute of CUnlcal Tralnlug and Research-undergraduates, graduating seniorS, and recent gra~uates-full-time pre-pro- fessional mental health traineeships and sholit-term externships providing training and experience with mentally and emotionally handicapped childre .. n, youth, and young adults. Operation Crossroads Africa, Inc.-student volunteer work- study projects in Africa during the summer. Work involves community based development projects in construction, agriculture, anthropology, and medicine. Deadline: Feb. 15. Historic Deerfield Summer Fellowships in Early American HLStory' and the Decorative . Arts-open to undergraduates with two or more years of college who are interested in museum work, historic preservation and American culture. Deadline: February 15. Sdenee Teaching Internship- Miss Porter's School, an in- dependent boarding and day school. Applicants must have undergraduate degree by June 1983 and have strong background in at least two of the following fields: ·chemistry, geology, biology, physics. Stipend, room and board in- cluded. Baltimore Museum of Art- summer internship for sophomores and juniors who are interested in a career in museum . work. Deadline: March 15. The Gallatin Division of New York University is seeking applicants for the Oscar Dystel Graduate Fellowship in publishing. The two . year master's fellowship is organized around a twelve- week internship at Bantam Books. Students interested in the fellowship should inquire and apply through the Gallatin Division, New York University, New York, NY 10003 (212) 59&- 7077. Applications are now being accepted for the 1983 pre-career practicum in mental health offered for the 13th summer by the New York Hospital-cornell Medical Center, Westchester Division. The eight-week program which begins Jwte 13 is open to college students and ' combines structured, staff- supervised patient assigmnents with professionally conductoo seminars- and lectures. Interested applicants are asked to conta_ct Ann Eisner, Director, Volunteer Depart- ment, The New York Hospital- Cornell Medical Center, Westchester Division, 21 Bloomingdale Road, White Plains, New York 10605, (914) 997~,5780. evaluation of intern progress; academic seminars and group discussions with other interns; guest lectures; social and cultural events with other in· terns; and centrally-located housing. . The application deadlble for the 1983 Spring Quarter Internship Program is ;January !5, 1983; for the 1983 Swnmer Term, March 1, 1983~ for· the 1983 Fall Semester, April 15, 1983. For an application. and more program information, contact your local campus liaison or write-call z Tht: Internship Progr.am, The Washington Center, 1705, DeSales Street, N. W., Washington, D.C. 20036, 202~9- 8510. The Fliencb Embassy_ is of- fering study grants for 5!udents with bachelor's degrees who would like to study in a French engineering school. The grants are available for 1983-84·. Pro.ficiency requirements in French must be met. Applications must be field by March 1. They can be obtained by writing to: Mission Scien- tifique del' Ambassade de France, 2011 I Street, NW,.Suite 50!>, Washington, D.C. 20006. • SCHOLARSHIPS The Golub Foundation (Price Chopper Supermarkets) is offering a Graduate School Scholarship to be a~arded to an undergraduate who plans to attend graduate school. The graduate school must be in an area served by Price Chopper (list available at the Financial Aid Office). Based on scholastic ability. - Applications available from: Scholarship Committee, Golub Foundation, PO Box 107 4, Schenectady, NY 12301. ·sPEAKERS Sadat Peace Lecture with .or. SISko, Monday, Feb. 7 at 8 p.m. in .Memorial Chapel, Daniel S. Dwyer, Albany County Chief Assistant District Attorney, will address the Remove Intoxicated Drivers (RID), a volunteer'organization whose aim is to remove iiJ· toxicateddrivers from the higb. ways,.at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Feb. 8 in the Library of the Colonie Central High School, Hackett Ave., Colonie. 11'te public is ·invited to attend:. For mare information call Ellen Curtiss, 86~3201. Blo Club meeting today (feb. 3) at 4:30 in Conf. Rm. A. We will be planning our trip and the potluck supper. Bio Club elections Will be held on Feb. 24. Anyone interested in running please contact Tamie at 6868 or Box 1487. :;> Men's Glee Club Concert, Friday, Feb. 4 at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Don't forget to check out the Circle K meetings. Every Wednesday at 6.:45 in the 4:th floor Carnegie -Lounge. It's . ne-ver too late to join! Capitol Hill Improvement Corp::.-not-for-profit neighbo- rhood housing, planning, and design service. Past internships have focused on areas such as sociology, tirban planning, historic preservation, public administration, drafting .. Each semester more than 250 students from colleges and universities across the country come to Washington, D.C. to work as interns under the auspices of the Washington Center. The Internship Program, open to juniors and seniors in all academic majors, includes: placement; orientation, counseling,-supervision, and ·February 4-6; 7, 9, 11. SS016-Admission $1.00 BE IN THE FOREFRONT OF TODAY'S TECHNOLOGY AS A SCIENTIFIC-ENGINEERING OFFICER Our scientific-engi'neering officers are planning and designing tomorrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeing their ideas and concepts materialize. They have the finest, state-of-the-art equipment to test their theories. The working envi· ronment is conducive to research. And Air Force ex- perience is second to none. You can be part of this dynamic team if you have a scientific or engineering degree. Your first step will be Officer Training School. Help us shape our fut\\re as we help you start yours. Be a scientific-engineering offiCer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at (518) 472-4484 ask for MSgt Pa.ul Kalinowski. Interested Freshman and Sophomores should contact ROTC Representative, llt. Ron Schwing, at 270-6236. Juniors and seniors contadMSgt Paul Kalinowski •. A great way of life. There will be a meeting of the Union College. CurUng Club this Friday, Feb. 4 at 4:30 in the · warm room at Achiles Rink. All those interested in curling at Union College should attend. C11rUng Rink ·Hours for the Week of Feb .. 2-9: Thursday-3 :30-5:30 Friday--CLOSED for ice maintenance ~ · Sat. & Sun.--3~5 Monday-3:30-5:30,. 7-9 Tuesday--CLOSED due to hockey game Wed.-3:30-5 :30, 7·9 VOLUNTEERS For IDformatlon on Volun- teer.lngv con~ct the Career Center. Instructor: Work witb 8 or 10 gir)Hor 1 hour once a week for 8 we~ks. Afternoon classes which. include girls in grades K-6 begin at 3:30p.m. Evening classes for girls in grades 6 and up begin.at 6:30 p.m. at the Scltenectady Girls Club.· Starting the week of l-17'-33. Call Marjorie Reynolds (1-5 p.m.) 374-9800. Instructors are needed for the following classes: C81ligtaphy~ Aerobics, Gymnastics, Weight Lifting,._ Leathercraft,. Simple Crafts, Drama, Large Muscle Games, Cera:rpics; Flower Making, Macrame, Knitting and Crocheting, . Self Development~Assertiveness 1'raining, Jewelry Making, Liquid Embr.o!dery. The New York Hospital- Cornell . Medical Center; Westchester DivJsion Swnmer ?r~reer Vo)Wlteer Program 1Sdes1gned to add to our .staff a Schaffer Library Book Sale Tuesday and Wednesday, February 8 and 9 Tuesday, 9:30 ·Wednesday, 4:30 . - R.A. APPLICATIONS Are Now Available ~ in the -Residence Life Office -· Davidson Office or -Richmond Office Applications due Feb. 25 If yov are planning a Spring Term Abroad and would like to be an R.A. next year, make . aU .arrangements now. -also- If you know of someone on a Winter Term Abroad who has expressed an interest in being an R.A., pick up an ap· pi icatlon for him-her. f

~of the ub this in the Rink. ling at ;end. 'or the r ice lue to Volun- Career 8 orlO lkfor 8 . which )begin sesfor egin.at ectady reek of ynolds for the raphy~ Neight )imple Vl~cle 'lower ritting Self eness 1king, rpital- enter,· mmer )gram staff a ~ like . a ap- OONOORDIENSIS, February 3, 1983 Page 13 ;& VOLUNTEERS group of st~den.ts - who _ a~e seriously cons1dermg ~areers<m the mental health. fteld; and who will throl!gh our Volunteer oepartrnentbe ~xposed over an eight week per1od to the m.any disciplines of a mental hospital. The eight week ,program commencing in June will d.~vote the .first week to orientating and training. During this time, the students \vm be given their assignments. In the past, assignments have included :patient halls, Chlldren's Ser- vice, Recreational Therapy, Physical Therapy, _ Music Therapy, Behavioral Research Lab, etc. The students' work schedule will be Monday through Friday; usually8 a.m.-4 .p.m. For further information, please write ·Mrs. Ann YJ . Eisner, Director of Volunteers, The New YQrk Hospital•Gornell Medical Center,. Westchester Division, 21 Blooiningda-le Rd., White Plains, NY 10605. Needed: Volunteerwhose job will be: l. Listening to cassette tapes to ~determine S\OUnd quality. 2. Shelving books and shelf reading. 3. Repairing · picture frames, repairing headphones. , 4. Keeping vocational file in order. 5. Keeping Young Adult collection up to date. At Schenectady County Public Library Call Naomi Bristol, 382-3500. Typing & Clerical, entering materials into _ computer. Telephone interviewers ~t Jewish Federation 9f Greater Schenectady. Call Bertha Berman, 393-1136. Needed: Frjendly visitor. Responsible for visiting a homeoound senior citizen at The Film Commiffee Presents: lOVE .STORY Tuesday, Feb. 8 7, 9, 11 $1.00 least one hour a week .. Call J.ody Weiner.. 372--3395. Tues . ., 9..:S; Thurs., a-s. Persons interested in working with developmentally dlsabl~d adults in supervised community residences will view a slide presentation and receive an orientation into the agency's programs and services. Living Resources Corporation of 44 Broadw~y is holding an Open House at their 834 Enunett Street, Schenectady Residence on Jan. 30. from 12 p.m.-3 p.m. Tbe American Cancer Society of NYS Division, Inc., Schenectady County Unit, needs volunteers for fundraising- educational programs-office assistance-special projects- patient assistance and other varipus functions. For more information call 377-2241 or write to the Schenectady County Unit, 1596 Rugby Rd., Schenectady, NY 12308. · HELP WANTED Looking for student to do laUildry for 5 or 6 college students. Flexible hours. Possibly 6-7 hours a week. 370- 6662. Could split job between several students to teach basic computers to .potential com- putet owners. · Classes scheduled in advance. Several nights per week, possibly weekends. Must be able to use: Atari, ·Commodore VIC 20, Texas Instruments (Home Computers). Starting as s~on as possible. Salary negotiable. Duane's Toyland, 372-1615 or 393-7330. Would like a student to print about 70 addresses in an ad- dress book. Carrie Zint, 404 Millard St., Schenectady, 393- 8089. Household help during rnonring hours for 2¥2 hours, 2 times a week. $3.~0-hr. Lakewood Ave., Schenectady, 377-6595. Babysitter .for 6 month old twins-Friday mornings 10 a.m.- noon. NiskayWia Ave .. , 370-8069. \Love Story reminds us of what movies were once all about-unabashed emotional involvement with beautiful, admirable characters whose triumphs and woes were shared so completely that we l£1ughed and wept.\ -Arthur Knight, Saturday Review_ little Vinnie's Pizzeria Free delivery for college 8·12•24 Cut Pizzas Specia 1 price on pa~fy ~r~ers J.ust ask for Vann1e CAMPUS NEWS Rosendale Elementary School (Niskayuna) .is looking for ~tudents to teach one day a week in an afternoon enrich- ment program. They would like (prefer) students in science - r-elated disCiplines to teach courses like, \How do radios and TV's work?\ They are open · to any ideas students may have. If interested call Terry Weiner, 370-6004. GREEK NEWS The Fraternity of Phi Gamma Delta wishes to thank all those who made the MDA Basketball Marathon a s'uccess. Those teams who have not turned in their sponsor money, please do so as soon as possible. PERSONALS Stephen--We're happy to announce you've passed your screen test and filming of \Ice balls warming in sorority showers'' will begin im- mediately. Dear Cindy, Well, how did l do? I hope you get well soon. It just isn't the same without you! Love, your associate Katie-We'll miss you when you go back to your farm . in Tennessee. --Love, the Stomes 1().(1: I hope this has put a curb on your oral fixation. We bought a case of Bic pens (just caps) for you as a get well present. I love you with all my heart, Ness 10-0 the inhaler~ We love you, we miss you, we need you, it's too quiet without you. Cough it up already-and come home. - Love, the Big Brick House' P.S. Leave the interns alone. Rita, Where are you? Jane Anne- HAPPY VALEN'fiNE'S DAY!!.! Bet you thought I would forget, Love you aJway$, Thomas Number 18-I love YQU too! Hey MlJtant - Happy Bir- thday, We haven't seen the wildest days yet. ~Love, Three Fourths Jane Anne, Now that you'v_e finally gotten your perso11a1, take it, frame .it, and .stop complaining! ! !. Potlicker~s Friend 2-3~1-Happy Birthday with love-2-3-62 Doctor- Why did the dead baby cross the road~ -The Kidnappers Mr. Personality-The an night study? All night? You must be getting an A in that class! See you tonight - x:o Drex, Are WE going to .oe back at Union nert term? I now I will - that's because I Uke Economics-maybe you sh()tild find something as intellectually stimulating (NO, NOT redheads, Lowenbrau or Chi Psi -Then, What's left??) Dotus R.M.S. I love you, even .from far away! ! Pam Lo, Jo, Ernie, Chip and Rob, I'm so glad we met that nigllt in the living room along with Rollover and Jack Daniels - you guys are great! P ;S. So who got the Mezcal worm? Superpledge. ' Sue: I hope I didn't worry you too much! I am trying harder and I promise. 1'-11 be good. I am getting better aren't I'? Thanks for being a great B.S. Love, Y.L.S. (A) To the best roomate on campue-(that's you Skyd.)· You are sooo cool! Thanks for everything ... Love always, ME Come to happy hour at the Pub! Fridays from 5:30·7:30. Happy hour drink prices, waitress service, free mun- chies, and a REALLY CUTE BARTENDER!!!! A good time for all. Andrea: We've come a long way since July 3, 1979 .... but I guess we're still B.G.'s at heart! ! After this weekend, U.C. will never be the same! B.F.F.E. Lorraine P.S. Do I foresee another \common bond\? First J and F, then the Scotts ... now Union?!? NDB-Thanks for last weekend- so I guess \Nobody Does it Better\ than you (isn't that where NDB come~ from??) Jeff~Wow, four months! Thanks for being you. You'll always be .my favorite pllppy. GOOD PAY FOR ENGINEERING _STUDENTS ..• $900??? Over $900.00 per month during your senior year. The Air Force has a new financial aid program for student-s in vari.ous engineering fields. Both juniors and seniors may apply. Our scientific- engineering officers are planning and designing tom_orrow's weapon systems. An Air Force experience is second to none. Find out more today if you qualify. Contact your local Air Force Recruiter: Call MSgt Paul Kalinoswki\ at < 518) 472- 4484. A great way of life. Love you, Imp P.S. No studs, huh! Hmmm ... Thank youall ver-y much who helped me. l.o'Ve, the blind Delta who loo:ms il1 the dark. Mike-Hope all your tests went well - it's time to celebrate! Love, Mom. S.S.~Next time I'll call anonymously. Lc:lve, Me. Joanna-HailPY Belated Birthday! I£ ope you've recovered fJiOin the concoctions made by the made physicists (Kevin and G-lan} in the lab! Love, Kate Roomie: Parlez vous Francais? Delta love, drunken in Dicksville (Just a hole in the wall in Joisey.) NARF-I miss you. I love you. I need you. I want you. Dear Curious George Capozzi -- How about spending a relaxing Sunc:lay on the narcotic couch and listening to disgusting jokes? Oh! My God. Wow wee. Tile blinded Delta GONGA and GREENIE - Caught you with your pants down! (Or sbould I say off?) Delta love, 'The Photographer Blowtilla~ I heard you bought stocks in Getty Gas. Is interest rising or dropping? Love, L & N Scotty-We enjoy your company at br-eakfast - wish you were here more often. We love you ve~ rnllch! Josh: HapJly B-irthday to a very special person! Lillian Bloom Ira, Thanks for being a lifesave. signed, the Unwriter Andrew-A.sstline it. Dudley-Tllanks for all the help in Pascal and Physics. I won't forget. 'Yc.u're a great friend and a terrific guy. Maybe some day I'll get some real study habits. Untll then - The Born Procrastinator The Deep .P<Jet- Thanks for listening :even at 5 a.m.). Only you and me - sorry, you and I know what you're really thinking. Mind games are fun when you know b.ow to play as well as we can. Love your ties. -The Other Deep One My Baby .:Blue Eyes)~Let's make this work ~ we're so good together. Dinn.er was perfect. Remember if :you throw away the stick they'll leave you, me and the babbling brook alone. Love you ('pre' that is). J?angs Still \Too Long? Come Dance Awtry Your Troubles at the WRUC RECORD HOP in the PUB every Thursday night

Page 14 OONOORDJENSIS, Febnw,ry 3~ 1983 ~----------------~-------------------- S.PORTS Wome,n Bow in Finals By S.J. Bloomberg Sports Staff The Union Putchwomen's basketball record stands at 5-3 after two wins and a loss this past week. The team seems to be well balanced at midseason showing promise for a winning record. · In last Wednesday's game against Vassar, Union finished with a 78-47 victory. The high scorer for Union was Rebecca Clemente, who scored 18 points followed by Julie Miller and Cay Lynch wit,h 13 points each. The game was well-balanced with every member of the team scoring at least one poi!it. At the Binghamton Tour- nament this past weekend, Union was able to finish in second place behind Binghamton State. Both Julie Miller anq Cay Lynch made the aU tournament team, displaying the strength of the Union squad. In the first game of the tournament the Dutchwomen were able to defeat Russell Sage in the last ten seconds of the game. The final score was 64~2. After Sage missed an easy opportunity to go ahead ,in the last minute the ball was deflected by Julie Miller, who was able to pass the ball to Brenda Hugick for the wirining two points. Cay Lynch was the high scorer of the game with 20 points. Julie Miller followed with 12 points and Jackie Tario with 9. Tario also led with 6 rebounds. Unfortunately, the Dut- ch women were unable to maintain their momentum against Binghamton in the championship game, losing 66- 49. While the teams ·ended evenly in rebounds and tur. · novers, Union was troubled with Binghamton's defense. The result was a 31 p~rcent shooting performance versus 67 percent for Binghamton. Julie Miller was high scorer with siXteen points, along with ten rebounds. Also shooting well were Rebecca Clementa, scoring 10 points, and Jackie Tario, scoring 8. Suzette Collier chipped in with 5 rebQund$. Despite finishing in .second place,. the tournament clearly showedthe strength on Union's bench, According to coach Lynne Barta, every player effectively contributed in the tourney. The ne~ home game will be Feb. 8 at the Fieldhouse against Russell Sage. Tipoff is at 6:30. Dutchwoman Maureen O''Day attempts to get a pass through the tough Vassar zone defense. · Skiers Hit Slopes ByJCV Sports Staff the only FREE delivery pizza pub on campus NOW BRINGS YOU The Union College ski team took to the slopes again this p1:1st weekend for its second ski meet of the season. The races, hosted by Cornell University, were held F.riday. Jan. 28 at sunny Greek Peak in Cortland, NY, where thif!een teams from Division II· competed. the first run and · was disqualified. Stokes, the only team member to place in both events, had two excellent runs in the nearly minute-long course to put him in !}th place. .E 0 .c: c. > u \' -' Ul 'i: .c: u FREE TOPPINGS That's right, for the next selfen days you can get cny one topping (' 'shrooms, pepperoni, peppers, onions, 1-clieese, sausage) on any LARGE PIE. The Dutchmen did an ad- mirable job }?otb in the...slalom and giant slalolll races, even though the courses were long and steep. In the giant sl~loril, senior team captain· Brian VValter had an impressive 48.18 second run to place 8tb in a field of 65 competitors. Earle Stokes, a junior, ~Iso finished well with a 48.9 to come in. 15th. In the slalom, Walter could have bad another . top ten finish with · a good second rqn, however he missed a gate at the bottom of Other team members Dan Rosenfeld, Carl Aiken and Pat Vernich .put in fine efforts. Freslnnan Craig Valenti, skiing competitiyely for the first time, also put in a fine. effort and shol,lld prove valuable to the team in the future along with the many other freshmen who are members of the team. F-REE -from Rock-n-Roll PIZZA E.C.A.C. Honors Wood Jur:do~ guard Joe VVood was elected to the Eastern College Athletic Conference's weekly \Honor Roll\ for the fourth time this year, and the second consecutive week, as he led the 11-2- Dutchmen to a pair of victories last weekend. VV ood scored a game-high 27 points while playing only 25 minutes as Union defeated visiting Hobart, 70-49, Friday night. On Saturday, Wood meshed 19 points in 27 minutes as the Dutchmen swamped host New England College, 92~8. Against Hobart, Wood hit 11 of 15 field goals, five of five free throw attempts, pulled in four rebounds, banded out four assists, had a block, and three steals. In the New England contest, he was eight of 15, and three of five with four rebounds, three assists, and two steals. The Dutchmen are now 11-2 and have won nine of the last 10 games including the last -five in a row. They are currently ranked third in the New York State Division III Coaches' Poll and have .been listed as honorable mention in the NCAA poll the· past month. Wood currently leads Union with a 20.6 scoring average. He is 99 of 173 from the field (57 .2 . percent), 70 of 107 from the line (66.6) has 67 rebounds, 46 assists, 28 steals and one block. Trlplewlnner Kyle Cotu.gnpenroutetovictory in200meter fly. Call Us: 370-6060. Open: 4:30·? Delivery: 5: 30~ 11:30 -This week's race· win be held in the w.inter wonderland of Western New York and hosted by Alfred University. The team will be taking several cross country racers to compete in the races on Saturday in ad- dition to . the downhillers. The team has a lot of depth and is looking forward to another great race. Good luck! ·Department e Arts presents Lunchtime Harpsichord Concert Series · by Hugh Allen Wilson Every Wed. Afternoon, Jan. 19-Mar. 2 12:45·.1 :15 p.m. . ARTS 202 Tlie pubUc is cordially invited to attend Swimmers Hit Rough Waters ByS.J. Sports Staff The Union swim team had a busy last .two weeks .. ynfor- tunately it was also a losmg two weeks as the team dropped meets to Trinity (48-47), Middlebury (67-38), Platt- sburgh {70-35), Albany (51-:44), and Norwich (68-28-). The team's record is now 0 wins and 7 losses. Even with these disappointing losses, the young and maturing team had many fine per- formances. Against Trinity, taking first place were Steven Jacobs (200 Bk), Eirik Abbey (200 Br}, and the team of Leon Hodes, Steve Zehl, Mitchell Kaplan and Eirik Abbey ( 400 Fr Rly). Second place was taken by Sh~ron Pearl (1,000 Fr), Ron Newbold (200 Fr, 500 Fr), Lisa Freed {200 Bk), Mitch Kaplan (100 Fly) and Brian Chabot (200 (br). On Saturday, the team traveled to PlattsbUrgh to do battle against the host and Middlebury. Not on1y did the team van run out of gas along the way, but so did the ·team. Again t~ere were some .out- standing performances turned in. Against Plattsburgh, Kyle Cotugno . was a triple Winner (200 Fly, 100 F:r), Jacobs (200 Bk) and Abbey [100 Br) were' double winners·, and an three along with Kaplan also won the 400 Medley Relay... Against _Middlebury, Cotugno and Allbey repeated their per- formances as · did' the same relay team. On Wednesday, Albany visited Union. Winning the 400 Medley Relay was the team of Jacobs; Abbey, Cotugno, and Howd. Cotugno again won three as he also won the 50 Free and 100 Free. Abbey won the 200 Breast. The team of Kaplan, Hodes, Newbold and Zehl won the 400 Free ·:a.eiay; On .Saturday th~ team was once again on the road this time visiting a strong Norwich team. Taking fir$ts for Union were Mitch Kaplan (200 Fly), and Eirik Abbey (200 Bf}. Second place finishers were Newbold (200 Fr), Jacobs (200 Bk)., Fox (500 Free), and Chabot (200 Brst). There were other bright moments during . these two weeks. Qualifying for women's states were Lisa Freed in the 50, 100 and 200 yd. Back;. Sharon Pearl in the 200 yd Back and Tricha Bowering in the 100 yd. Free. Congratulations to all three, Coach Magee is still very proud of his team. ''Many of our swiminers have done their best times. I cannot ask for anything. more.'' The team is next in action on '13at., Feb. 5 . vs.' Hamilton and Wed., Feb. 9 vs. RPI. Both meets are at home so come down and support the team. · Union I D Required to Use the Athletic Facilities

h the ~s was only both runs -long 1lace. Dan I Pat rorts. ltiing time, and 1 the with who held of in ad- The is all in so 0 .... 0 .c: Q. t-= . ~ OONOORDIENSIS, February ~' 198.! .Page 15 .... USFL~ ·New Kld on the Block Dutchmen Tak.e Classic Sports lallc ByD.D. Sports Staff ' The NFL successfully pulled itself out- of the mi~~season players' .strike to finish off the , season with an exeitlng Super Bowl tournament that was climaxed with last Sunday'.s entertaining Washi,ngton vic• tory over Miami for ·bragging rights of the NFL. The quality of play only seellled to suffer for a couple of weeks and Super Bowl 17 carried With it all the ex- citement that the 16 previous Super Sundays ·enjoyed. - .· But just a!! one professional football campaign ends, another is just beginning this week with training camps in the warmth of Arizona and Florida. the new kid on the block is the United States Football League and all those close to the USFL predict a bright future for this new 12-teanl league, Many sports observers remember back to tbe days of the now defunct World Football League and remind those predicting success for the USFL that the- same type of pre-season op-- timism was expressed by many in respect to the future of the WFL. The question stands, \Why is the USFL going to succeed where 'the WFL failed?\ I, along . with many others, believe that the USFL will enjoy a successful existence and be able to make a go of it in the very . competitive professional sports mar~et ·of today. Basically, I see four main reasons why the USFL will succeed. First off,the USFL has been able to obtain contracts With the major television net- works for prime time coverage of the USFL's spring and summer games. The major networks have dished out the big bucks in the belief that the USFL will be widely accepted by the many million Amer.ican football fans that glue them• selves to the TV to watch the NFL and college games that they present in the .fall. The WFL. was never able to get the top· notch TV coverage that the USFL enjoys at this time. Money isthe bottom line and the networks truly believe that the USFL will roll in the same type of revenue that the NFL and NCAA ga,:nes have brought in over. the years. With SCO'ITWY'KOFF Sports Staff Secondly, the founders of the USFL were very selective in their task of <,:hoosing markets to place USFL teams in. Prospective U~FL owners had to prove that they were si,ncere in their commitment to sup- porting an expansion organization. Financially sound prospective owners had to abo prove that they would build strong organizations from the front office an the way down the line to the. coaching staffs . Twelve strong organizations were granted teams in some of the top sports markets in the nation. The WFL granted organizations in a haphazard fashion that helped. lead to the · league's financial problems; Thirdly, the USFL has ob- tained the services of some of the most respected football minds in the game. Teams such as the Chtcago Blitz have gone out and obtained the serv:ices of top coaches like George Allen. Chicago understands the im- portance of building a winner right away and signed Allen to do just that. Allen owns one of the most impressive records as a head coach in NFL history and has helped to bring prominence to the expansion league with his mere presence. The WFL was never successful in attracting established fop:tball ,mJnds ... to . its .. organizations. Lastly, the USFL has done .very well in signing some of the top blue-chippers out of theri January 4..:5 college draft. Exciting. prospects such as Reggie Collier from Southern Miss. and Craig James from SMU have signed on with USFL clubs. Players such as the aforementioned would have most definitely gore in the early rounds of the sprir.p, NFL draft.. Some of the nation 'l top college ·players and free a5 'lts will be hoping to find places or; the final 40-man rosters tl' 1.t USFL teams will announce •or to-the opening games in Jlv.. .h. ~verything is ! ag ac- cording to schedule a .1e USFL startstralning campf nls week. The jury is still out, but with what I've seen up to this point, look out America, there's a new kid on the block that might w~ll give major league baseball a bit of competition in thE.· spring. On Saturday, January 29th, the Union' College men's varsity track team competed in the 2nd Annual Cardinal Classic Invitational held at Plattsburgh State. The Dutchmen won the meet with 150 points, Platt- sburgh was second wUh 86 points, ~ohawk Valley Com- munity. College finished third with 51.5 points. and MeGill University of Canada was fourth with 56 points. Lynwood Wade and Gary Wells led the Dutchmen with double wins. Gary Wells won the highjump (5'8'') and the 50 meter high hurdles (7.a), while LynwoodW ade w~;~n the shot put {14Arn). and the_ 35 lb. weight toss (12.71m), Other Dutchmen who recorded first ·place finishes were Denny Contois in the 800 meter run (1:58.4), Phil Gist in the 400 meter dash (52.4), and Gary Wenner in the pol~ ~vault (11'6\). A trio of Dutchmen picked up se<,:ond p1ace points: ehris . O'Donnell was second in the 500 meter run (1:10.0); Winston Britton notched second in the 300 .meter dash, and Bob Bertagna leaped to a second place finish in the long jump {5.95m). In addition, the mile relay team (Ken Holman, Dennis Contois, Winston Britton and Phil Gist) and the two-mil:e . relay team (Dave Stanland, Chris O'Donnell, Dave Marin and Bill McRoberts) both added second place finishes. Third place points were lqJlded by Mar\ D.unn in the 35 lb. weight toss (12.03rn), George Capozzi in the 50 meter dash (6;0 sec.) and Billy McRoberts in the 1500 meter. run ( 4: 19.3h Three Dutchmen picked up fourth place finishes: Dave Dellehunt was fourth in the 1000 meter run (2:38.5), Scott Remillard picked up a fourth in the 35 lb. weight throw (11.73rn), and Mark Dunn captured fourth in the shot put Hockey ... Continued from page 16 the time and anything above 23 percent is good. Fobare continued his scoring ways as he completed the scoring by · putting in his eighteenth goal of the season With assists going to linemates Jamie Knight and Beall. Mickey Perras (knee) and T.J. . Ryan (shoulder) sat· out the game, but . were expected to ·play last night against Salem. AthJete of the Week By DREW HURLEY Spc~rts Staff Congratulations to basketball star Julie Miller for gaining Athlete of the Week honors for her outstanding performance in the Binghamton Tournament this past weekend and in· Tuesday's game against St. Rose. · · In tournament action, Julie was the reason the Dut- chwomen were able to advance t? the champonship game. In f1rst round action against R~sell Sage Julie had twelve pomts and five blocked shots. But more importantly Julie stole the ball with only seconds rernaining and passed' it off to Brenda Hugick wllo scored the winning basket. In ·the cham- pionship game Union did not fare as well as the,~ r tt.Jt a superior Bingharnto . \e am. Miller, however, cam. Jt\mgh witp sixteen poir; ~ ten rebounds and four ste ::: .3oth Miller and stellar t :, ·.nnate Cay Lyn<,:h gaiml - alll' tournament team ho11 r~ for their exceptional play. In a losing effort · '1 sday against St. Rosa, .J u may have had her bes'; gam r the Dutchwomen thi:: seas1 filler hit for sever~teen ints, grabbed tenoffe1:.sivt> re .. unds, seven defensiv·~ rebount' ; and recorded three steals. Athlete of the Week honors as she gained the honor Fall term for her play at number one singles. The junior, native of Miami, is a physics major and a ·sister of the Delta Ganuna sorority:. Julie;s statistical totals to date are most impressive. In ~ nine games she has 120 points, -a 25 blocked shots, 22 steals, 45 o offensive rebounds and 49 u; defensive rebounds. Julie Miller Julie Miller is no stranger to (13.12m). Fifth place finishers for Union were Ken Holman In the' 50 meter high hurdles (8.0), Dave Stanland in the 800 meter run (2:06.7), Tam Ostrander in the 400 meter dash (60.7)., Tom Witt in the long jump (5.32m), Scott Remillard in the shot put (12.40m), and Bob Bertagna in the 50 meter dash (6.4). RoJ.Ulding o1,1t the scoring for ' - the Dutchmen were: Tom Witt and Tom Ostrander who took sixth place in the 400 meter dash (65.2) and in the long jump (5.0m): On February 12th, the Dut- chmen will take their 4-1 record on the road to RPI to compete in a triangular meet with Capital District rivals: Siena, Albany State and RPI. Dutchman Lynwood Wade took first place in the shot .put (14.4 m) in the 2nd Annual Cardinal Classic Invitational meet. Prospective Athletes Physical exarni.nations for all spring sports will be \ held on Sunday, Feb. 13, in the Athletic Training Room of Achilles Rink. The schedule is as follows: Women's Lacrosse 6:45p.m. Women's Softball 7:00p.m. Spring Track 7:15p.m. Baseball 7:30 p .. m •. Men's Lacrosse 7:45p.m. Men's Tennis 8:00p.m. Further information--call 6136 Division II Standings (Western Region and NYCHA) WESTERN REGION Team NClrwlch Plattsburgh Middlebury UNION Westfield North Adams Hamilt-on Williams Div. II 10-3-0 . 11-6-0 6-4-1 6-6-0 5-8-1 5-9-1 3·10-0 2-12-0 Pet. .769 .647 .590 .500 .392 .366 .230 .142 NYCHA Team RIT Oswego Elmira Buffalo · Potsdam Brockport Geneseo Canisius Cortland Div. II 16.3-0 13-3-0 11-5-0 5-8-1 10-7-1 4-11-0 4-11-0 3-12-0 1-10-0 Pet. .842 .812 .688 . .392 .583 .266 .266 .200 .090 The ECACwi.ll select the top four from the Western Region, the top three NYCHAbased on NYCHA play and then the team with the next best Division II record for the 1982-83 playoffs. lll£ . · . · ~ . Intramural Spot I! If ByG.W. Sports Staff This week's Miller Intramural Spotlite Athlete goes to the team of Steve Wing and Paul Aronson. Steve and Paul combined to win the in- tramural foosball tournament in a tough field of twelve teams. They lost the first game in a _ best-out-of-three game championship, and had to make two amazing comebacks to beat the runner-up team. Each person will receive the prestigious Miller Lite trophy... Both Steve and Paul are members of the Theta Delta Chi Fraternity. •

. i . ' Page 16 OONOORDIENSIS, February S, 1983 SPORTS Five Straight For Hoops By RICK SAl>IR Sports 1 ~ditor Granting the r :quest of coach Scanlon to ap,,ly their killer instincts and to start breaking games wide open, the Dut-. chmen rolled over opponents Bohart and New England College this week in wide margin victories. The two wins increased Union's record to 11-2 and gave them five victories in a row and a number three ranking in the N. Y .S. Division III coaches poll. Last F.riday evening the Dutchmen .stormed by a weak Hobart team (2-13) in a 7b-49 victory at the Memorial Fieldhouse. A small but en- thusiastic crowd was on hand as bleachers were set up behind each basket in Syracuse Carrier Dome style in order to add distractions to Hobart foul shooters. The game featured a game high twenty-seven points from junior co-captain Joe Wood who was named to the E.C.A.C. Honor Roll for the fourth time this. year. Senior co- captain Joe Clinton performed brilliantly in running the Dutch- men offense, dishing out a game high ten assists. The team jelled well overall as nine players broke into the scoring column and the Statesmen from Hobart could manage just 49 points against Union~s tough defense. On Saturday the Dutchmen traveled to Henniker, New Hampshire to face a tough New England College squad. Both teams came out running in the opening minutes as the fast tempo was set for the rest of the gatne. Sophomore Ken D'Qr~zio broke a 36-36tie with 4: 56 left in the first half to help Union to a 44-38 halftime, lead. D'Orazio finished the half with fourteen points, six rebounds and five blocked shots. The second half belonged to Union as the Dutchmen really got their fast break to click. With the offense in high gear and the defense holding ·steady, the -Gamet five were able to coast -tQ. a 92~8 victory. Five U rtion players finished in double figures with D'Orazio leading the way with .twenty petints, and Wood, Kevin Bartlett, Clinton and Jeff Feigelsoncontributing nineteen, seventeen, fourteen, and thirteen points, respec- tively. In one of the best efforts of his career, senior Feigelson combined thirteen rebounds and three assists with his season high thirteen points. Kevin Bartlett was also im- pressive, as he came off the bench to grab seven rebounds to go with his high point tab. The victories e~tended Union's winning streak to five games. More importantly, they gave the substitutes an op- portunity for valuable game experience, and also gave the INTRAMURAL BULLETIN BOARD Upcoming Special Events WresHi ng Tournament entries due :Feb. _16 Indoor }rack Feb. 19 A LEAGUE Rejects Psi U Sigma Chi Chi Psi TDXA Albany Law 8 LEAGUE Fiji ZBT ADP Dolphins Delta Phi TDXB Hockey Standings 9-0-1 4-2-1 4-3 3-5 2-5 1-6 7-1 4-3 3-3-2 3-4-1 2-4 0-6-1 . NOTE: Participants in racquetball, billiards and ·\' table tennis tournaments play your matches as · soon as possible then record your results on bulletin board in Alumni Gym. starters a much deserved rest. After thirteen· games, Union was averaging 70.8 points per game while holding thei,r o~ :ponents to 61.2. Interestingly they have made 210 free throws while their opponents have made only 130. Joe Clinton is one of the leading foW. shQoters in the country, shooting a s~- zling 92.5 percent. Clinton also Sophomore Center Ken D'Orazio goes up for an easy two points In leads the team in assists with the Dutch~en's romp over Hobart. 89, while Wood leads in points , · (20.6 ppg), and D'Orazio leads SCOREBOARD BASKETBALL (12-2) in rebounds with 109. The Dutchmen have won nilte of ,their last ten games and have truly loo~ed impressive as of late. The team feels that six or seven wins out of their ne~t ten games should clinch them .a berth in post-season play. It will be a long road to a tournament though as they still have to t:neet powerhouses such .as Hamilton (17-2), Hartwick (12-4), and archrival Albany State. The exciting Dutchmen team plays at Binghamton tonight and at the Memorial Fieldhouse on Saturday afternoon against Plattsburgh. Hobart Nelhgan Genovese Aug hey Dav1d• Braunagel Caw1e Sch1ano Humphrey An ken To! a I~ Uno on Chn1o·n wood Doherty [)•OraliO F1ege1~on Bartlett Lauw Blackburn Totals Union G F T 5 2 ·12 Clln ton 1 0 2 Wood . 5 0 10 D'OraZIO 2 0 4 Feigel•on 4 4 12 Doherty 1 2 4 Bartlell • 0 2 2 Lau.•· 0 2 2 laf&yette 0 I 1 Blackburn Jane~ Barry 18 13 49 Total~ G F T 3 0 6 11 5 27 3 0 6 2 0 4 2 Qc 4 4 I 9 2 0 . 4 0 0 0 3 0 6 2 0 4 0 0 0 J2 6 70 Me • fngland College GFT GFT 1 0 14l!al<er 11 3 25 8 3 19 Barrell I 0 2 1 0 2 Dupus 3 0 6 10 0 2(J Hall ice 9 1 19 6 1 13 Ha~lline 2 0 4 7 J 17 FISh 3 0 6 2 1 S Rodriguei 3 0 6 1 0 2 42 8 .1'1 Totals 32 4 61 Union 7Q Union 92 Union65 Middlebury 2 Union 13 Union3 Union78 Bing. Tourn. Union 64 !3ing.hamton 66 St.Ro~e 72 . Hobart 49 N.E. College 68 U:of Rochester 52 HOCKEY (6-6 Div.l 1,.7-11 overalfl . . . ~ -· WOMEN!S. BASKETBALL (5-4) Vniono Buffalo 1 GeneseoO Vassar 47 Russett·.sage 62 UnioR49 Union 65 I NDOOR TRACK ( 4-1.} Plattsburgh's Cardin a I Classic lnv. Meet Union 150 ~MVCC 51.5 Plattsburgh86 Mc.Gill <Canada) 50 Albany St. 51 Norwich68\ SWIMMING (0-7) Union45 Uni.on 2a SPORTS HAPPENINGS Basketball V. Hockey J. v_ Hockey Women's Basketball Swimmi·ng Feb. 3-10 Feb. 3at8ingh.amton 8:00 Feb.5Piatt~bvrgh 3:00 Feb. 9 at Hartwick 8: oo Feb. 5 Merrimack 8: 00 Feb. 8Piaftsburgh 8:00 Fell. 5 Canterbury 3: 00 Feb. 6 Vermont Aca<;lemy 3:00 Feb.3atRPI 8:00 Feb. sat LeMoyne 6:00 Feb. 8Russell Sage 6:30 Feb. lOat New Paltz 6:00- Feb. 5 Hamilton l: 00 Feb. 9 RP.I 4: 00 L--------------------------~-~--~ . Hockey Takes Two, Reach .500 By DREW HURLEY Sports Staff Charlie Morris<;m's Skating Dutchmen- came up with two crucial wins this past weekend on a tough overnight road trip. The two wins brought Union's Division II record to 6-6 with eight games remaining in- cluding last night's contest at Salem State. Union's record puts them m fourth place (see standings, p. 15) ahead of Westfield State (5..8·1). A fourth place finish will put the Dut- chmen in the playoffs for the first time under coach Morrison. Down Buffalo The Dutchmen trounced Buffalo 13-1 in the first game of the trip. Union dominated play from start to finish as they outshot the Bulls 53-12. Dan O'Neill led the Dutchmen scoring attack as he scored two goals and handed out three assists. Union led after the first period by two goals. In the second period the floodgates opened as Union pumped in five goals. Goal scorers for Union .f-- were Mickey Perras, O'Neill, Tod Fobare, Brad Nicholson, and Don Beall, who put in his seventh of the season. ~n the third period Buffalo coach John Mickler replaced starting goalie Mike Tesoriero with sophomore netminder Alan Okun. Prior to the Union game; Okun had only appeared in one other Bull game this seasQn. Everyone got into the scoring action in this period as sophomore defenseman Bill Kirby and Ben Maynard each netted their first goals of the season. Fooore and Nicholson each netted U :eir second goal of the game. A Jright spot of the high scorin ~ was the play of freshman Winger Curt Cole. Cole broke out of an eleven game scoring slump by pum- ping in two third period goals. Scoring by Dutchmen other ' than those who are expected to score w:ill be key down the eight game playoff stretch. Freshman goalie Wayne McDougall continued his solid play as he gave up only his third goal in three games. McDougall now has an overall record of 3-4 and 3.46 goals against. However, in Division II he has an amazing 2.17 goals against aver;;ge. i)utchmen reach .500 Sa:Ut'day the Skating Out- chinen reached the .500 mark for the first time since IQsing to Elmi.ra in the ninth game of the season. Fre~hman goalie John Merry earned the .shutout, Union's second of the season, to pace the Dutchmen to a 3-0 Win. Joe Caruso got Union going with a powerplay goal in the second period after a . scoreless f~st period in which both teams combined for only five shots. Winger Don Beall made it 2..0 at the 7.: 00 mark of the sec()nd period. Beall finished .off a Fobare, Fitzgerald passing play to score Union's second powerplay goal of the evening. That powerplay goal gave Union a 37.5 percent success rate on . powerplays against Division II teams. This is an impressive statistic as Union's Division II opp~Jnents have been successful only' 19.6 percent· of ' Continued on 15 I Bill Kirby (L), goalie Wayne McDougal band the rest of the skating Dutchmen will be back in action at Achilles Sat. nl.ght as they face off against Merrimack at ·8. · ·

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, February 3, 1983 SPORTS iFI #b::W Five Straight For Hoops By RICK SAPIR Sports l :ditor Granting the r quest of cuad~ SL·;mlnn to 3Pi ly their kill~r in;.;tinct s and t\ start breaking games widt> ••pen, the nut-. ch m£'n r<·llt>rl · •\'('r ''PP!JAen h llr >h~1rt and \'t•w FnglanJ College this week in wide m.argin vicluries. The two wins increased Union's record to 11-2 and gave them five victories in a mw and a number three ranking in the N. Y.S. Division III eoaches poll. l.a st Friday evening the Dutchmen stormed by a vvrak Ho~art team (2-13') in a 711·-49 victory at the Memortal Fieldhouse. A small but en- thusiastic crowd was on hand as blEacners were set up behind each basket in Syracuse Carrier Dome style in order to add distractions to Hobart foul sh.ooters. The game featured a gamE high twenty-seven points fr()m junior co-captain Joe W ()Od who was named to the E.C.A.C. Honor Roll for the fourth time this year. Senior co- captain Joe Clinton performed bi\\i1liantly in running the Dutch- men offense, dishing out a game hi~h ten assists. The team jelled wEll overall as nine players brok.e into the scoring column and the Statesmen from Hobart could manage just 49 points against Union's tough defense. On Saturday the Dutchmen traveled to Henniker, New Hampshire to face a tough New England College squad. Both lt'ams came out running in the \pening minutes as the fast ll'mpo was set for the rest of the game. Sophomore Ken D'Orazio brokr a 36-36 tie with 4 56 left in 'h{' first half to help Union to a 44-38 halftime lead. D'Otaziu finished the half with fourteen points, six rebounds and five blocked shots. The second half belonged to Union as the Dutchmen really got their fast break to click. With the offense in high gear and the defense holding steady, the Garnet five were able to coast to a 92-68 victory. Five Union players finished in double figures with D'Orazio leadiag the way with twenty points, and Wood, Kevin Bartlett, Clinton and Jeff Feigelson contributing nineteen, seventeen, fourteen, and thirteen points, respec- tively. In one of the best efforts of his career, senior Feigelson combined thirteen rebounds and three assists with his season high thirteen points. Kevin Bartlett was also im- pressive, as he came off the bench to grab seven rebounds to go with his high point tab. The victories extended Union's winning streak to five games. More importantly, they gave the substitutes an op- portunity for valuable game experience, and also gave the starters a much deserved rest. After thirteen games,. Union was averaging 70.8 points per game while holding their op- ponents to 61.2. Interestingly they hJ.ve made 210 free throws while their upponents have made unly 130. Joe Clinton is ,,ne l'f the leading f(:)ul shooters in the country, shooting a siz· zling 92.5 percent. Clinton also leads the team in assists with 89, while Wood leads in points (20.6 ppg), and D'Orazio leads in rebounds with 109. The Dutchmen have won nine of their last ten games and have truly -looked impressive as of late. The team feels that six or seven wins out of their next ten games should clinch them a berth in post-season play. It wi1l be a long road to a tournament though as they still have to meet powerhouses such as Hamilton (17-2), Hartwick (12-4), and archrival Albany State. The exciting Dutchmen team plays at Binghamton tonight and at the Memorial Fieldhouse on Saturday afternoon against Plattsburgh. Hobart Union G F T G F T Nellayan I 2 12 [linton 3 0 b GenovP'S.e 1 0 2 Wood II I 27 Aug hey 0 10 o·orallo 3 0 6 Da v •d~ 0 4 Feogcl~on 2 0 4 Braunagel 4 12 Doherty 1 0 4 Cow•e 1 J Bartle II ~ I 9 5ch•ano 1 1 Lau• 2 0 4 Humphrey 1 2 LMayptte 0 0 0 Ank.en I 1 Bide k burn 3 0 6 j('lf'IP'> ? 0 4 Barr~ 0 0 0 Total~ 18 1] 49 Total\ 32 6 70 unton \e'\ C:ng1and College G F T G F T (linton I 0 14 B~kN 11 l 11 /v(,.._: j 8 3 19 Barrerl I 0 ) Doherty 1 0 1 DuDvS 3 0 6 D Oraz•o 10 0 ~ Hathce 9 1 19 I=•Pgei!.OO 6 I 13 Ha~lt•ne 2 0 4 Barnett 7 3 17 F11h J 0 6 L8UI 1 I I Roaroguez 3 0 6 Blackburn I 0 2 Total$ 41 8 't'l Totals n 4 u Sophomore Center Ken D'Orazio goes up for an easy two points ir the Dutchmen's romp over Hobart. Union 70 Union 92 Union 65 Middlebury 2 Union 13 Union 3 Union 78 Bing. Tourn. Union 64 Binghamton 66 St. Rose 72 SCOREBOARD BASKETBALL (12-2) Hobart 49 N.E. College 68 U. of Rochester 52 HOCKEY (6-6 Div.ll, 7-11 overall) WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (5-4) Union.O Bu.ffalo 1 Geneseo 0 Vassar 47 Russell Sage 62 Union 49 Union 65 INDOOR TRACK (4-ll Plattsburgh's Cardin a I Classic lnv. Meet Union 150 Plattsburgh 86 Albany St. 51 Norwich 68- Basketball V. Hockey J.V. Hockey MVCC51.5 McGill (Canada) 50 SWIMMING (0-ll SPORTS HAPPENINGS Feb.3-10 Union 45 Union 28 Feb. 3 at Binghamton 8:00 Feb. 5 Plattsburgh 3:00 Feb. 9 at Hartwick 8: 00 Feb. 5 Merrimack 8: 00 Feb. 8 Plattsburgh 8:00 Feb. 5 Canterbury 3:00 Women's Basketball Feb. 6 Vermont Academy 3:00 Feb.3atRPI 8:00 Feb. Sat LeMoyne 6:00 Feb. 8 Russell Sage 6:30 Feb. lOat New Paltz 6:00 Feb. 5 Hamilton 1:00 Feb.9RPI 4:00 Swimming Hockey Takes Two, Reach .500 0 - 0 .c. 0. 't\ ~--' < rJ \- \ . -~ \'\'\\'~'\\\'\\-~ Att:llete of the week Julie Miller scoring two of her thirteen points vs, Vassar. See page 14 for details of women's hoops. INTRAMURAl BULLETIN BOARD Upcoming Special Events Wrestling Tournament entries due Feb. 16 lr1door Track Feb. 19 A. LEAGUE Rejects Psi U Sigma Chi Chi Psi TDXA Albany Law B LEAGUE Fiji ZBT ADP Dolphins Delta Phi TDXB Hockey Standings 9-0-1 4-2-1 4-3 3-5 2-5 1-6 7-1 4-3 3-3-2 3-4-1 2-4 0-6-1 NOTE: Participants in racquetbalL billiards and t.able tennis tournaments play your matches as soon as possible then record your results on bulletin board in Alumni Gym. By DREW HURLEY Sports Staff Charlie Morrison's Skating Dutchmen- came up with two crucial wins this past weekend on a tough overnight road trip. The two wins brought Union's Division II record to 6-6 with eight games remaining in- cluding last night's contest at Salem State. Union's record puts them in fourth place (see standings, p. 15) ahead of Westfield State (5-8-1). A fourth place finish will put the Dut- chmen in the playoffs for the first time under coach Morrison. Down Buffalo The Dutchmen trounced Buffalo 13-1 in the first game of the trip. Union dominated play from start to finish as they outshot the Bulls 53-12. Dan O'Neill led the Dutchmen scoring attack as he scored two goals and handed out three assists. Union led after the first period by two goals. In the second period the floodgates opened as Union pwnped in five goals. Goal scorers for Union were Mickey Perras, O'Neill, Tod Fobare, Brad Nicholson, and Don Beall, who put in his seventh of the season. In the third period Buffalo coach John Mickler replaced starting goalie Mike Tesot•iero with sophomore netminder Alan Okun. Prior to the Union game, Okun had only appeared in one other Bull game this .season. Everyone got into the scoring action in this period as sophomore defenseman Bill Kirby and Ben Maynard each netted their :irst goals of the season. Fobc '\e and Nicholson each netted L ;~ir second goal of the game. A Jright spot of the high scorir. . was the play of freshman winger Curt Cole. Cole broke out of an eleven game scoring slump by pum- ping in t\\'!.' third period goals. Scoring by Dutchmen other than those who are expected to score will be key down the eight game playoff stretch. Freshman goalie Wayne McDougall continued his solid play as he gave up only his third goal in three games. McDougall now has an overall record of 3-4 and 3.46 goals against. How~ver, in Division II he has an a.aazing 2.17 goals against aver ,~e. 1utchmen reach .500 Sa 1r day the Skating Dut- chmen reached the .500 mark for the first time since losing to Elmira in the ninth game of the season. Freshman goalie John Merry earned the shutout, Union's second of the season, to pace the Dutchmen to a 3-0 win. Joe Caruso got Union going with a powerplay goal in the second period after a scoreless first period in which both teams combined for only five shots. Winger Don Beall made it 2-0 at the 7:00 mark of the second period. Beall finished off a Fobare, Fitzgerald passing play to score Union's second powerplay goal of the evening. That powerplay goal gave Union a 37.5 percent success rate on powerplays against Division II teams. This is an impressive statistic as Union's Division II opponents have been successful only 19.6 percent of Continued on page 15 Bill Kirby (L),goalie Wayne McDougall,and the rest of the skating Dutchmen will be back in action at Achilles Sat. night as they face off against Merrimack at 8. 0 0 -a ··-,! \ f

' 49 er 52 iono alo 1 47 50 8:00 3:00 8:00 8:00 8:00 3:00 3:00 8:00 6:00 6:30 6:00- 1:00 4:00 mark to of the ~ John to with first teams shots. 2.:0 at off a play econd gave is an been of 15 y face 1877 cxu, No .• 14 February 10, 1983 :'· :-=.. ·--~ -Frances Suliberger, a prevention specialist from the New York State Division on Alcoholism, speaks to ~epresentatlves of area colleges. Uniorl Hosts AlcOhol Awareness Conference . . By DOUG LANDON News Editor On Friday, February 4, Union hosted student and ad- ministratlve representatives of .area colleges at an alcohol awareness conference. The purpose of the event was to educate the college-conununity on alcohol abuse, the effects of alcohol on the body, and alternatives to all!ohol. Con- ferences such as this one have been prompted by the New York State law put . into effect December . 4, 1982, prohibiting persons underttieage of 19 .from purchasing and consuming alcoholic beverages. The event featured a lecture by Frances Suizberger ,' a prevention speciali~ from ·the New York State~ -Division on AlcoholiSill and Alcohol Abuse. As one of two prevention specialists in the· area of education, Sulzberger's responsibilities focus on alcohol as it relates to colleges. Sulzberger believes one of the first steps toward alcohol control at the colleges should be to break down faulty stereotypes. Alcohol abusers, she said, are \everyday students who use alcohol as a social stimulus.\ They are not . characterized, as many think, exclusively by poor academic perfonnance, low grades or introverted personalities~ She added that alcohol abusers include a substantial number of females, thoqgh the problem has traditionally been associated with males. Beliefs that beer contains less than wine and liquor, or is less intoxicating are also incoiTect according to Sulzberger. A 12 ounce beer, a 5 f)unce glass of wfue, and a 1.5 ounce shot of liquor all contain the same amount of alcohol and are equally intoxicating. Sulzberger is not a prohibitionist, pointing out that she too sometimes . enjoys alcohol. \I don't think there is a better place to learn how to use alcohol than _the college cam· pus,\ she said if the drinking is done responsibly and moderately. The \peer assistance group\ is a concept that Sulzberger recommends for colleges. These groups, which are un.derstanding, Sulzberger Jilaintains. Union's policy on the use of alcohol very closely parallels the guidelines she provided. Food . is necessary when alcohol is consumed, as it slows the (}Xidation rate of the drug into the bloodstream: she ex- plained. It does not, however, get t:be alcohol out of the sy.stem; time alone ac- coJIJplishes that. Alcohol does not exit the body for a full 48 bows after it is consumed. \Our bodies can't deal with alcohol,\ connnented Sulzberger, as she JlOin~ed O'l;lt the tr~mendous stra1.n one puts on his or her livet\- by consuming large - qaantities of it. Coffee and cold can be eliminated, she favors using the same type of glasses for alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks, and self service of the beverages. Also, Sulzberger advocates drinking as simply one aspect of t' 't'. tb th th an ac_J.Vl y, ra_ er . an __ e center of attraction and· sole reason for atteiuling. \Have your beverage there, but center in on the event,\ she added. Alternate bars, which are places for social gatherings without alcohol, is an idea she proposes to colleges for ·con- sideration. R.A.s should be made aware. of the problems that exiSt .with alcohol on campus if they are not already, said SUlzberger. _I Alumni Rep Statements p. 5 already active on a growing number of campqses statewide, consist of. students who counsel their contemporaries who may be experiencing alcohol problems, and also attempt to control alcohol on the campus, A clearly defined, enforced college drinking policy is of primary importance, r:t~cordblg to SUlzberger. The policy, she continued, spould mandate a monitoring system for the alcohol, provisions .for fo_od and non-alcoholic beverages at the event, and a clean-up plan. Sponsors of ·parties and other events where alcohol is to be served shOuld be made aware of all such rules and.be requiied to sign a .form indicating their showers only create ''wide aw~ke drunks\ she said, and have no effect on the alcohol breakdown process. Often people are physically unable or simply don't choose tQ drink alcDh~l on a particular occasion, Sulzberger said, and nr.n-alcoholic beverages should alwa.ys be available and prominently displayed. Society is at fault for the lack of alternatives to alcohol at most parties, acco.rding to Snlzberger, because peer pr,essure induces drinking. ''We have\- t1> make excuses not to drink alcohol,\ she· said, as sh~ passed out to the audience lists and recipes for drinks Without alcohol. Until such stereotypes \We're not doing students any favors in the long run when we let them drink or ·smoke pot in private.'' She even advocates the R.A.s keeping logs of how often some students come home drunk; to determine whether or not a problem exists. She sees this as one way to get students to see the ·correlation between vandalism in the donns and alcohol, if it can be documented that more damage is done after nights of heavy partying. Sulzberger guessed that only eight to ten per-qent of college students are actual alcoholics, but pointed out that 70 to 95 percent drink, according to The Chronicle-of Higher Education. It is estimated that about half of these abuse the drug. She offered some signs to look for in spotting potential alcoholics, which include rapid .intake .of alcohol, movement into social groups more intent on drinking, tendencies to be less generous with money than in the past, and saying he or she is on}y going out for onedrink but always overdoing it. ·- The lecture was followed by a question and answer session, and the conference adjourned after a \working lunch\ at the Dutch Hollow Pub. Representatives were supposed to discuss the talk and al'cohol programs at their respective schoolS amongst themselves. Sulzberger believes that an alcohol program without in- teraction and referral for alcoholism is a worthless one, and she feels that peer coun- seling is especially important for such programs in the college community. She hopes to eventually hold alcohol awareness ~onferences such as this one in the four major regions of New York State, to inform colleges about the theme and merits of her campaign for alcohol programs. Mrs. Lorraine Marra, Student Activities Coordinator, organized - the event. Representatives from Siena, Skidmore, SUNY at Albany, SUNY at New Paltz, Cobleskill College, . the Junior College of Albany, Schenectady County, Hudson Valley and Fulton- Montgomery . Community College, and Umon attended the conference.

ir 49 ~ge 68 52 nion.O 1 sar 47 :~ge 62 49 ion 65 c 51.5 50 45 28 8:00 3:00 8:00 8:00 . ! 8:00 3:00 3:00 8:00 6:00 6:30 6:00 1:00 4:00 mark to of the John ~son, to win. ng with second first teams shots. 2-0 at second off a play second ~vening. gave against is an been of page 15 ey face • lege 1877 CXIl, No. • 14 February 10, 1983 -Frances Sulzberger, a prevention specialist from the New York State Division on Alcoholism, speaks to representatives of area colleges. Union Hosts Alcohol Awareness Conference By DOUG LANDON News Editor On Friday, February 4, Union hosted student and ad- ministrative representatives of area colleges at an alcohol awareness conference. The purpose of the event was to educate the college community on alcohol abuse, the effects of alcohol on the body, and alternatives to alcohol. Con- ferences such as this one have been prompted by the New York State law put into effect December 4, 1982, prohibiting persons under the age of 19 from purchasing and consuming alcoholic beverages. The event featured a lecture by Frances Sulzberger, a prevention specialist from the New York State Division on Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse. As one of two prevention specialists in the area of education, Sulzberger' s responsibilities focus on alcohol as it relates to colleges. Sulzberger believes one of the first steps toward alcohol control at the colleges should be to break down faulty stereotypes. Alcohol abusers, she said, are \everyday students who use alcohol as a social stimulus.\ They are not characterized, as many think, exclusively by poor academic performance, low grades or introverted personalities. She added that alcohol abusers include a substantial number of females, though the problem has traditionally been associated with males. Beliefs that beer contains less than wine and liquor, or is less intoxicating are also incorrect according to Sulzberger. A 12 ounce beer, a 5 ounce glass of wine, and a 1.5 ounce shot of liquor all contain the same amount of alcohol and are equally intoxicating. Sulzberger is not a prohibitionist, pointing out that she too sometimes enjoys alcohol \I don't think there is a better place to learn how to use alcohol than tbe college cam- pus,\ she said if the drinking is done responsibly and moderately. The \peer assistance group\ is a concept that Sulzberger recommends for colleges. These groups, which are understanding, Sulzberger maintains. Union's policy on the use of alcohol very closely parallels the guidelines she provided. Food is necessary when alcohol is consumed, as it slows the oxidation rate of the drug into the bloodstream she ex- plained. It does not, however, get the alcohol out of the system; time alone ac- complishes that. Alcohol does not ex.it the body for a full 48 hours after it is consumed. \Our bodies can't deal with alcohol,\ commented Sulzberger, as she pointed out the tremendous strain one puts on his or her liver by consuming large quantities of it. Coffee and cold can be eliminated, she favors using the same type of glasses for alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks, and self service of the beverages. Also, Sulzberger advocates drinking as simply one aspect of an activity, rather than the center of attraction and· sole reason for attending. \Have your beverage there, but center in on the event,\ she added. Alternate bars, which are places for social gatherings without alcohol, is an idea she proposes to colleges for ·con- sideration. R.A.s should be made aware of the problems that exist with alcohol on campus if they are not already, said Sulzberger. Alumni Rep Statements p. 5 already active on a growing number of campuses statewide, consist of students who counsel their contemporaries who may be experiencing alcohol problems, and also attempt to control alcohol on the campus. A clearly defined, enforced college drinking policy is of primary importance, according to Sulzberger. The policy, she continued, spould mandate a monitoring system for the alcohol, provisions for food and non-alcoholic beverages at the event, and a clean-up plan. Sponsors of parties and other events where alcohol is to be served should be made aware of all such rules and be required to sign a form indicating their showers only create \wide awake drunks\ she said, and have no effect on the alcohol breakdown process. Often people are physically unable or simply don't choose to drink alcoh9l on a particular occasion, Sulzberger said, and non-alcoholic beverages should always be available and prominently displayed. Society is at fault for the lack of alternatives to alcohol at most parties, according to Sulzberger, because peer pressure induces drinking. \We have' to make excuses not to drink alcohol,\ she said, as she passed out to the audience lists and recipes for drinks without alcohol. Until such stereotypes \We're not doing students any favors in the long run when we let them drink or smolte pot in private.\ She even advocates the R.A.s keeping logs of how often some students come home drunk, to determine whether or not a problem exists. She sees this as one way to get students to see the correlation between vandalism in the dorms and alcohol, if it can be documented that more damage is done after nights of heavy partying. Sulzberger guessed that only eight to ten per~ent of college students are actual alcoholics, but pointed out that 70 to 95 percent drink, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education. It is estimated that about half of these abuse the drug. She offered some signs to look for in spotting potential alcoholics, which include rapid intake of alcohol, movement into social groups more intent on drinking, tendencies to be less generous with money than in the past, and saying he or she is on~y going out for one drink but always overdoing it. - The lecture was followed by a question and answer session, and the conference adjourned after a \working lunch\ at the Dutch Hollow Pub. Representatives were supposed to discuss the talk and a~cohol programs at their respective schools amongst themselves. Sulzberger believes that an alcohol program without in- teraction and referral for alcoholism is a worthless one, and she feels that peer coun- seling is especially important for such programs in the college community. She hopes to eventually hold alcohol awareness conferences such as this one in the four major regions of New York State, to inform colleges about the theme and merits of her campaign for alcohol programs. Mrs. Lorraine Marra, Student Activities Coordinator, organized the event. Representatives from Siena, Skidmore, SUNY at Albany, SUNY at New Paltz, Cobleskill College, the Junior College of Albany, Schenectady County, Hudson Valley and Fulton- Montgomery Community College, and Union attended the conference.

Page2 OONOOR,DIE'NSJS, February 10 1 198:1 ·Student Forum Memb~rs Debate Current Issues Ilene Landress, President of the Student Forum I Fee Hike Sought BySCOTr COLLINS Staff A request has been put forth to the Student Forum by Vice President of the Finance Committee Barton Hill calling for an increase in the fee charged for student activities. Aimed at enlarging the ac- tiVities budget, the request calls for increasing the current rate of $38 per term to $50 per term resulting in .an individual yearly increase of $36 per student. The overall result would be an additional $7,200 to the budget for allocation to clubs and ac· tivities. President of the Student Forum ilene Landress says that it will have to be studied carefully ·before any decision .is rendered. She also suggests an alternative; instead of in,. creasing the fee,. the school could maybe take care of the financing· of some of the all- college events rather U;tan leaving the financial .respon- sibility on the Finance Com- mittee. · This request; when put in front of the Student Forum, was openly disclJSsed and debated. It has no:w been sent to the Finance Committee and the Committee on Committees to draw up a formal proposal. Spanish 147 By MARCY BURSTINER News Editor Although no proposals were voted on at the Student Forwn. meeting held last Monday, many ideas were discussed among the members present. Barton Hill, Vice President of Finance. began the meeting-- with his report from the Finance Committee. The men's and . women's Glee Clubs ap- parently requested an ad- ditional $3,000 budget allocation in order to ·fund upcoming concerts for which they are contractually obligated. According to Jennifer Cornell, President of the women's Glee Club, concerts must be scbeduled one year fu- advance and therefore are often planned prior, to budget approval. Hill also added that these concerts \operate word of mouth.\ Were they to be cancelled, the club's reputation would be impaired. The matter was set aside until . next week in order that- Lee Dayton, president of the men's Glee Club, and Hugh Allen Wilson, professor of the arts, could be present to better ex- plain the situation, Wilson w.as not present at the meeting due to weather conditions. Hill stresses that the rate increase is necessary to student actiVities at Union. Club ac- tivities could be expanded because the increase would allow for a higher allocation of funds to all clubs. This, he said, is important because of the fact that the F4nanc~ Committee was forced to\cut back this year on most clubs. Also an increase would allow for more activities such as concerts and speakers. The rate of inflation must also be taken into account for the neeessity of the increase. Writers to Visit/ Starting at the $250,000 level, the Finance Committee has a current balance of $1,000 after the distribution of funds for clubs and other school ac- tivities. Hill stresses that the committee has not gone into the \red\ and that it does not have to cover any debts. Opponents claim that a second increase in as many years (school year '81-'82 fee was $33 per term) is not necessary. Coming at a time when tuition has been in- creased, raising the activities fee is no.t feasible at this time. It has also been pointed out that with the cutbacks in financial aid, funds would have to fie taken out of tuition to account - for the higher activities fee. This in effect will take money away from one school fund and put it in another. By MICHELLE NOVELLE Staff This spring a new comse will be offered to those students who have had four years of high school Spanish, an A.P. course or a course within the 130's level at Union. The course is called \Living Hispanic Writers\ and will be taught by Professor Ginsberg. It is being supported by a grant from the lEF. There are many reasons for the addition of this course to the present curriculum. As Professor Ginsberg said, \This decade has been known as an era of the Hispanics and by the end of the present decade there will be roughly seven million people in the United States who use Spanish daily.'' Some of these people are contemporary writers and it should be stressed that because it is a living culture within our society Spanish plays a role which needs to be enhanced Within our educational system. Spanish was also the first European language. to be spoken in the States and the writers which · will be presented in the new Spanish 147 course will be both American born and Hispanic born. Four, possibly five, writers will be coming to campus. The students of this course will read their works, ask questions and find out the special problems tha,t a writer faces living in a culture other than his own. So far, writers have been scheduled to come from Spain, Peru, Venezuela, and also an American translator. The students will be expected to take advantage of .. the writers' presence within the dassroom but will also have opportunities to sp_eak with them outside of the classroom. Spanish 147 should prove to be lively and original, besides being important academically. Twenty-one of . our neighboring . countries to the South speak Spanish, so it is necessary to begin to understand their representation of the arts as well as the basic language. SPRING TERM PRE-REGISTRATION NOTICE Pre-registration materials for spring term 1982-83 will be available a·t the Office of the Registrar, Silliman Hall, beginning Monday, February 21st. Students are urged to secure their pre-registration materials promptly. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the spring tern:', except for graduating seniors, .must immediately _give notice of the1r plans to the Office of the Dean of ~tudenfs. P~te,nt1al March graduat~s should inform the Office of the Reg1strar of the1r plans to complete the1r studies at the end of winter term if they have not already done so. Students should confer wi.th Faculty Advisers during the week of Februa.ry 21-25. Some departments may ann'?.unce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, February 28th. A TEN DO~LAR ($10.0~) LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THEREAFTER! Please be on time, even though your schedule may be incomplete! PLEASE NOTE: REQUIRED PERMISSION CARDS FOR DESIGNATED SPRING TERM COURSES WILL NOT BE AVAILAB~E FROM DEPARTMENTS UNTIL THE WEDNESDAY M~RNING OF THE WEEK OF PREREGISTRATION, FEBRUARY 23. ~ - At the January 31 Forum.. meeting, money had been allocated to the Concert Comniittee, at the · request· of chairperson Larry Liebertnan, to fund a s.pring concert featuring female vocalist Joni Mitchell. Ilene Landress, president of the Forum, in- formed the members this week . that the concert tour had of- ficially been cancel'led. Landress then went on t9 mention a president's. con- ference which h14d taken place that day . .A:t the conference, the. president voiced. his concern over the letter to the editor which · was printed in the February is~ue of Coli· cordiensis, by student Karen · Paul. The letter had been submitted in regard to an in· cident which had apparently. occurred at a recent fraternity party in which a girl was assaulted while the party was taking place., According to Landress, the president wanted to know if the matter was an i~sue amongst the student body. He was then told that many students were in fact concerned about the letter owing to tile fact · that these situations do exist on campus. From what Landress told. the Forum, it seems that the ad\ ministration is taking the matter seriously and the president plans to \do something· about it.\ The next item on the agenda · was the ptesentation by Latty Tuchman, Academic Affairs Council representative, of the report by the Committee on Union Education concerning the possible transfotmati9n of the college calendar to a semester program: An open meeting with the student body is planned in the next several weeks in order to discuss theidea of a semester program. 'lbe . administration, according to Tuchman, is in- terested in _.pearing reactions from the student body. \They have no-set or definite ideas,\ Tuchman was quick to note, \They're open for ideas.\ The next issue brought up w:as the stand tak-en by the Forum in the past of not funding political or religious organi~ations. A representative from the student organization entitled United Campus to Prevent Nuclear War had approached Landress and requested an explanation for this position. According to Landress,. ''Everyone thought that it was in the (government) constitution-well, it's not.\ · Karen Schick, senior trustee, then asked, \How is UCPN different from the Student Environmental Alliance (SEA)?\ SEA it seems, receives fronds from the Forum. BenHecksher, member of the Finance· Committee, added that Amnesty Inter- national is also a political organization and it, too, receives funds. It seems that although not stated in the constitution; it had always been a precedent that these student organizations based on political or religious ideals would receive Forum recognition butnot funding. Hill explained, \If you fund a group, you are affiliated with it, Forum does not want to align itself, o.r take a stand, with p()litical or religious gr;oups. '' Robin Weiner, sophomo·re · representative, · added that if you begin to fund political gfou,ps, ''We can get into a lot of problems. What if a group came up (to us for funding) that w:as pro-abortion? ... Then another group. comes up against abortion. Soon Forum. can get into a spot where we are funding two sides to the same (issue).\ Ail there was no consensus over ·the issue, Landress propos~d that a collliilittee be fonned to draw up guidelines QY the end of the term. On that · note, she also a(l.ded that the first draft of the long ·awaited by-laws to the Government Constitution would be presented next week. Jamie Danziger, jup.ior representative, then asked .if · anything was to be done about the Contingency Fund guidelines. At -last week's meeting the issue of whether or not money in the fund (now totaling $26,000) should be spent; or whether it should be saved for O:JtllY emergency situations~ A$ of now, aside from last year's budget, the Forum nas $1,()(!0 in the Student Activity budget. Danz1ger explained his concern. \Right now I don't think any of it should be spent. Pd vote 'no' to all groups coming asking for additional money. But if Forw:_n consensus says that some, maybe $10,000 (for instance), should be spent, that may affect the way I'd vote ... We've gotto have some sort of idea of what to shoot for.'' Landress, upon realizing Danziger's point, directed Hill to discuss the matter with the Finance Committee, draw up some guidelines, and then present them to the Forum by . the end of the term. The last item discussed was a proposal by Steve· Nowak, senior representative, that buses be set up to take. Union students to Hamilton for the upcoming basketball game. Hamilton is ranked 1st in the state with Union 3rd in the standin:gs. Forum will be providing half tl!e funds for the buses. and tickets will eost $1 or $2. _ . The Forllill then held a closed session in order to approv~ the Committee on Committees' selection of a new co- chairperson for the Concert Committee. The Formn ap- proved . the committee's selection of sophomore Nick Sprayreg~ . All meetings of the Student Forum are held on Mondays at 9:00 p.m. Students are en- couraged to attend the meetings and become involved in the student governmental process. 8lfusions Vnistx ·c9£ai'& Studio¥ •10% STUDENT DISCOUNT • TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS • NEWEST IN MODERN HAIR STYLES ·PHONE;·:· 381 ... 6268 5191ower Union St. ~eanette Massaro Schenectady, N.Y. 1.2308

eligious Forum ng. Hill 1 group, Forum self, Qr ;ical or Robin more that if 10litical a lot of pcame tat was mother 1gainst :an get ~unding ;sue).\ tsensus ndress ttee be inesby ~n that tat the waited \1111lent 1sented junior ked if about Fund veek.'s· theror (now .ld be uld be gency aside 1t, the tudent I his don't spent. groups itiorial sensus ~10,000 spent, vote sort Hill the up then by was a that Union the the the be the $1 the co- ap- Nick at en- the OONO-ORDlENSIS, February 10, 1,983 Page 3 CUE Discusses Courses By STEPHEN PIRAiNO · and GAYLE ROSENFELD Two weeks ago, Con- cordlensls pr~ted an article. on the Commrttee on Un~on Education (CUE) 's .suggestion that the Colleg~ c~nsider the~ question of altermg 1ts calendar to a semester system, However, in the CUE's report, submitted last fall, additional ideas wer.e also considered. First in the report is that of the freshmanpreceptorial. Last summer, Alan Nelson, Associate Dean of Under.graduate St\ldies·, compiled an account of bow the preceptorial has don~ ~bus ~ar in regard to attammg 1ts original goals. The CUE con- sidered this synopsis of the program,. while also disc11$Sing it with other ·faculty members; and arrived at some ob- servations and , recom• mendations. According to the report, the present preceptorial tries ''to give close . ~ttention t9 _the' students' wr1tmg by reqmrmg a number of written exercises, later rewritten_ after having· been connnented o~ by the preceptor; to provide an in- troduction to a num\)er of great texts in ·order · to provide students with ideas to un- derstand and about Which they must write; \ and also, although not agreed upon _ as to its necessity by all the faculty, \to provide a common intellectual experience for all students by adopting a single reading list for all section,\ · Problems With Preceptiorial However, frequently all these aims cannot .be reached d'Ql'ing such a short ten' week term. The workload upon the part of the preceptor tends to . be astronomical. But the CUE has som~ 1·emedies to this problem. It concluded that guest. lec- turers might be used, the majority of these being .part -of the Union .faculty, who ~cialize in certain areas and who woUld thus know more about particUlar . subjects than thepreceptor. This procedure is currently being used by professors at Union in their courses. This process might alleviate the strain upon the preceptor and would \expose 'Students to a wider range of f(lculty ,\. declared the report. The CUE alSo felt that \weekly meetings of the preceptors should continue\ while \.guest lecturers shOuld attend a few meetings of some of the . ·preceptorial sections to familiarize themselves with .the context in. which the lectlU'es will be utilized.\ In addition, \the .faculty writing workshop sbould .be expanded and should be required of . all new preceptors and these preceptors should continue to receive some additional credit for participation in the program\ for· a preceptorial class requires more work upon the part of the faculty than does an average course at Union. Preceptorial As a Required Course The account's final comment on the subject of the freshman preceptorial was that it ''should be required of all students at Union College.'' Basically, the reason why. electives are also offered instead of simply the ·preceptorial is because of staffing problems. However, with these incentives, faculty members might be more amenable to undertaking the task. But one objection to of- fering only the preceptorial and not the electives, iS the idea of choice. According to Vice' President D'Andrea, , '-'the element of choice is very im- portant to .students\ and of- fering only the preceptorial eliminates that choice. · A second consideration was the screening and placement of students · in com.position courses. The CUE recom- mended, ''th<1t a screening procedure for the identification of i;ncoming students with severe problems in composition be developed in consultation with the English Department. Students who perform below an acceptable level would be required to take a basic corn- position course before taking the freshman preceptorial:\ This process would also alleviate the preceptor's. burden by allowing students with poor writing skills to get more help. Continued on page 4 Associate Dean Alan Nelson reports on Freshman Preceptorial P . 7.• • rogressrve LJlOntsts Group Confers on Israel By SHERRY WEITZEN Staff The Progressive Zionist Caucus held its first Co- ordinating Conference, on the weekend of January 2! through 29. The .purpose of the con- ference was to discuss the establishment of such a group, its goals and ideas, and issues concerning Israel. The con- ference convened in Oneonta, a relatively central location for the Northern Region. Most of the people attending the -conference were college students who had spent at least one year in Israel. Along with Union, the schools represented were Albany, Binghamton, Cornell, McGill, New Paltz, Oneonta; Syracuse, attd Yale .. One goal of the conference was to define exactly what is meant by Progressive Zionism. By convention, progresive has indicated radical, or even socialist feelings. It was and diSCUSSion began ClboUt the discussed that Socialism would issues concerning Israel today. scare many Israel lovers from a Workshops were set up and the ,group ·that supported participants could choose to go Progressive Zionism. A more to two of three offered. One of conservative definition was , the discussions was about given as \left of center\ political parties in Israel and Zionists, supporting more the shift to the right-winged liberal policies in Israel. Likud Party to which Begin now Progressive Zionism was also belongs. The Alignment referred to as the ability to love Coalition, of which the Labor Israel but also the ability to Party has been a member, had criticize many of the events that been the majority for about 30 take place and the policies that years. The various party are established in Israel. This policie.s on Israel's boundaries, premise was more acceptable reasons· why the Labor Party to the group present at the has not made a comeback, and conference. the structure of representation $20,000 Grant Donated Once everyone had some idea in the Kenneset are important of what was meant by issues in Israel today. :progressive Zionism, deb~te Another workshop dealt with began about a Progressive the issue of religious pluralism Zionist Caucus, and what in Israel. Israel- is presently exactly is the purpose of such a split into the Religious, group. Since a majority of the Orthod·ox, and the Secular participants already belong to Jews. The issue discussed was Zionist Youth Movements, such the necessity of the Con- as Yourig Judea, Habonim servative and Reform Jews in Dror, and Netzer, each having Israel to be able to practice its own goals and ideas, it was Judaism in the manner they suggested that the Progressive desire, and be married by the Zionist Caucus would be rabbis of their own movement somewhat of a coalition of these without the intervention of the movements. In addition it would Israeli Government. The last include people who did not workshop dealt with the Peace belong to any movement. Movement in Israel. By LISA FOLEY Staff In continuing to provide annual aid for the sixth con· secutive year to Union College, Procter and Gamble recently donated a $20,000 grant. This grant which totaled $80,000 over six years, is divided equally among the departments of Economics and Mechanical Engineering, the Institute of Administratio-n and Management and the Office of the President. According to Scott Murhead, Director of Grants Programs, Union consistently receives support from Procter and Gamble because the company likes the type of graduates Union is producing and the large number of them entering the business community. In addition, he stated that Union takes very special care to insure that the Procter and Gamble company knows the grant. is appreciated and put to good use. Another Reason, according to D. E. Butler,. an -Eastern Field Manager, is that the company is impressed with the organi2ation of the interviews directed by t~e Career Center which makes the interviewer's job easier. Mr. Butler also noted that the company is highly impressed with the number of interviews~ with the Procter and Gamble c~mpany, which is the third highest of the 125 companies that visit the school and 80 percent of the business offers the company extends are, ac- . cepted. Computers have been the major expenditure of the Procter and Gamble grants as Union tries to incorporate computers into the day to day curricUlum. The grant eases the burden of Union's $4.7 million budget, which in the next five years, Mr. Muiread projects, willput Union into \a position of leadership among small colleges in introducing com- puter application across the entire curriculum.'' The Chairman of the E-conomies Department, Professor Dwight Phaup, · stressed repeatedly 11 the im- portance of the computers and the subscriptions to up to date data tapes in the classroom because of the fast rate at which. the institutions and data is changing.;, He also noted the importance of the subscriptions for research. Citibase Data Tapes eqable students to study macroeconomic models and test tht:ir own models for practicality. The Compustat Tapes provide qQ.arterly jncome and balance sheet data for most major Am.erican Corporations. :Bothl Professor Phaup em- phasized, are invaluable for research and necessary for \handS on experience with up- to-date data.'' In addition the Economics Department provided two . leading economists, Michael Novak and · Kenneth Galbraith, as speakers at Union. Professor Phaup stated that, \The Economics Department provides speak~rs to stimulate campus-wide m- terest and awareness.\ Increasing computer facilities is also a major con~ cern -of the Mechanical Engineering Department. Especially important to the department is providing students with computers used for mechanics · and design courses. Computers for design purposes, according to Professor and Acting Chairman William Aubrey, \provides the students with experience in real time designing.!' Past Procter and Gamble grants also enabled the department to purchase a digital strain indicator, a device used to measure stress of a mechanical object put under service~like conditions. The Institute of Administration and Management, according to Mr. ·Muirhead, \tentatively plans to use this year's grant to_ pur- chase video display ternlirtals for an electronic classroom. It will be used for teaching vase studies and research. The Office of the President used a portion of this year's grant to restore several.historic paintings owned by the College. One of them is a portrait of Eliphalet Nott, President of the College for 62 years, which has been displayed in Los Angeles as part of a special exhibition of early American paintings. The Office also donated some of its share of the grant to Stanford histori.an Paul Truner, Union '62, who is writing a boQ!t on American college architecture and who plans to use the ar- chitecture of Union. The · Procter and Gamble grant is unusual because Union cannot apply for it; it is solely up to the companY's discretion as to- who receives the grant. It is also unusual in that the grant has no restrictions on the use of the money. Members of the caucus would Some of the participants who be \left of center\ Zionists. are in the provess of moving to There were disputes as to Israel shared the progress of whether · the establishment of their plans and beliefs of the another Zionist group was groups, that they were affiliated really necessary. American with. A majority of the people at Zionist Youth Federation is an the conference expressed their a} r e ad y establish e d intentions of permanently organization that encompasses moving to Israel, either to a the other Zionist movements. l{ibbutz or Moshav lifestyle There are AZ'YF conventions. which would involve group held, and it_ also offers to living, or to a city such as provide services · to campus Jerusalem. Zionist groups. Arguments The conference ended against AZYF were that for Saturday afternoon after a . knowledgeable Zionists, the discussion of how to make organization could not provid~ students on campuses more more advanced education and· aware of Israel. It served as a stimulation. Apparently, AZYF place for .discussion about the is run by Zionists who refuse to role of Progressive Zionism and see Israel as fallable. the purpose of having a specific Progressive Zionists feel they group such as the Progressive have the right to criticize and Zionist Caucus to .facilitate try to iinprove the established Zionists who are educated and system in Israel today. would like to discuss Israel Although no concrete plat- intelligently and realistically. It form, goals, or decisions were is likely that there will be made about the Progressive another conference to be held in Zionist Caucus, debate ceased the future. TERMS ABROAD 1983-84 The Annual Information Meeting TODAY ,4:30 p.m. February 10 Greece lsrae·l England France 55016 Spain Austria Italy · Study of Socialized Medicine

'!; Page 4: CONOORDIENSIS, Februl;lry 10, 1983 Pro.:.Choice Group Meets BySHERRYWEITZEN Staff Editor's Note: The following Is the second part of a two part series on a conference of the Family Planning Association held lil Albany on Jan. 31 and Feb. l, - Following Sarah Wed· dington 's Keynote speech, Geraldine Ferraro came to the podium to address the audience about the future of . \Choice\. Ferraro, a congresswoman from Queens; is the only woman, out of the 35 in Congress, from New York. In her opening remarkS, she stated, ''We are currently, in Washington, seeing the best of times and the worst of times'.' The best, because the new right had lost. The worst because the concept of \Choice\ is under daily attack by this ad- ministration and some mem· bers of Congress. Besides being a social issue, a woman's choice whether or not to have children is an eCQnomic issue. There are so many women in the work force that are the \bread winners\ in the home. who must work to feed freedom Forum their families. \Are we going to tell these women, their families, that th~y will not be allowed: to decide when to have children?'' Ferraro went on to say that the Right to Life supporters in Washington not only want to take away the right to have an abortion, \but they in fact want to destroy the education of birth control programs, which would reduce the unfortunate fJrf'gftutlc_\t· can mean an · f'IHI to f'tlucution a11d an Pml for rile chance of necessity to the right of the abortion to exist. I hardly need to tell you that the situation .is especially critical for our teenagers. For them, pregnancy can mean an end to education and an end for the chance of a decent life!' One of the major issues concerning teenagers is the \squeal nile\ which enforces family planning clinics which receive federal funds to inform parents of Baker to LeCture James A. Baker, Executive Vice President and Senior Executive of the Technical Systems Section of the General Electric Company, Fairfield, Connecticut, will speak on \Robotics and the Factory of the Future\ at the Mon., February 21st lecture of Freedom Forum at 8 p.m. at Linton High School, the Plaza, Schenectady, .stl\aight up Rugby Road, about 10 minutes' walk from the Union campus. A native of Garland, Texas, and a graduate of Southern Methodist University with a BSEE degree, Mr. Baker joined GE in 1952. President of the Industrial Products and Components Sector. He was assigned to his present position in September 1981. Mr. Baker heads the Industrial Electronics group which produces electronics components, such as integrated circuits, discrete semicon- ductors, capacitors, receiving tubes, microwave and imaging devices;· power . supplies . and liquid crystal displays; as well as electronic systems such as numerical and programmable controls, AC and DC drive systems for process industries, robots and automation systems, and intelligent vision systems. minors who have gotten prescriptions for con- traceptives. The result ex· pected is that more teenagers will be getting pregnant and therefore there will be more abortions. As of now, New York State has filed · a temporary restraining order with the Federal Court to block this regulation. The Parental Notification Regulations are detrimental to teenagers. Not only do they \pose a serious threat to health and well being'' of so many teenagers, but they deny a minor's r-ight to privacy, and go \against the stated will and intention of Congress which opposes mandatory parental notification.\ In addition to these regulations, the Reaga>n Administration has endorsed the ''Respect Human Life Act\ a bill proposed by Reptesefi· tative Henry Hyde. In tbis act., he suggests that the federal funds ot Medicaid may no longer be used to aid the poor in getting abortions. The bill also prohibits health insurance plans of government workers to cover abortions. Ferraro feels this act is \another potential rallying point for the anti-abortionists. It has won the public endorsement of President Reagan. It states as a fact what Roe vs. Wade was never presumed to state. It states that life begins at con- ception.'' \Clearly the fight is far from over.\ Ferarro is optimistic about the future of \Choice\. She feels the new Congress is \better on the issue then those people they replaced.\ Yet there are many obstacles to overcome including the previously mentioned. ''The Reagan Administration ap- pears to be renewing its .attack- on family planning programs and · pl8J1.11ed parenthood by focusing on administrative rather than legislative means to achieve its ends,\ she said. Ferraro closed by urging everyone to speak to their representatives and write letters. \We cannot let up the pressure,\ she said. CUE~ Reviews' ' Curriculum· Continued from page 3 A wr..iting center- was con- sidered wher:e students c()uld go to get help much like the - current calculus criSi$ center and the computer center. The program would utilize one paid faculty member who con- tributed some time, an assistant and trained student tutors, Also, D'Andrea suggested that in- dividuals might \come for elementary instruction of word processing units'' which he - would like to see set up in the , center. D'i\ndrea continued by stating' that ''a lot of places have these\ centers, such as Yale, Batd·, Franklin and Marshall and H~ard, and they've proven quite effective. New Course Suggested A second required course idea was reviewed that would be compl~ted by the end of ·a student's .sophomore year. The CUE report said that ''this course would· present a coherent and integrated view of the organization of knowledge at any one period in history thus contributing to a student's .general education and also providing an. introduction for possible further work in the humanities, sciences, social sciences and technology. Moreover, this course would -provide a basis for students' understanding of the work of those in other fields.\ It would be taught in large lectures and several different courses would be used. D'Andrea commented that the preceptorial \tries to be a combination of a good ideas course and a writing course.\ Therefore, along with most of the · CUE''s aforementioned ideas and suggestions, the second required course would take some more work off the shoulders of the preceptors. A concern expressed by the CUE is that of writing skills used throughout the curriculum. \We recommend that students be required to take at least one other course before the Senior year in which considerable time and effort is spent on writing.\ As D'Andrea put .it \writing shoul<bltt only be regulated' to the preceptorial\ and he would ~e to urge the faculty -to look at writing skills in all courses. The CUE believes that a Program of General, Studies should be created to act as administrators ·of the freshman preceptorial liberal learning and other programs. The committee stressed the im- portance of such a group in order to monitor the overall education at Union. · Proposed Change in Calendar The finar topic discussed in the report was that of the College calendar. President Morris sent out a letter to all department heads on January 20 asking them to gather information as to what the implications of a calendar change would be with regard to their respective departments. The letters are to be submitted to Vice President D'Andrea by March 1, wherein he will 'con- sider them and take up the matter with the Academic AffairsCouncilandthe CUE. As D'Andrea said, \It's the sort of \issue we ought to discuss and get off our calendar fairly early'.\· on February 4, the CUE was slated to discuss ''some tnechanical things,\ com- mented D'Andrea, such as \the possibility of bringing in speakers and consultants and bow ·should we go a bout acquainting people with the issues of the CUE?\ D'Andrea concluded that \the committee's job is not finished. It must look at the general education requirements throughout the curriculum and will go on to discuss liberal learning requirements\ at Union in the coming months. During the 1950s he held a series of engineering and sales assignments in the Company's industrial heating, apparatus and numerical control businesses in Chicago, Milwaukee and Waynesboro, Virginia. Mr. Baker has held a number of important civic posts with the United Way, Junior Achievement and the United Methodist Church, as well as the Boy Scouts of America, who made him a recipient of the prestigious Spurgeon Award, He is a Board member of the Thomas Alva Edison Foun- dation, Canadian General Electric Co., and GE Venture Capital Corporation. He also is the author of published articles on instrumentation and numerical control. He has keynoted a number of con- ferences on Factory Automation and has written numerous articles on the subject. · Aid Account Proposed In 1962 he moved to Schenectady, New York, to serve six years with the Apparatus Service Department. lie was named General Manager-Industrial Control Products Department · in November 1970. He moved to Cleveland ,in 1973 as General Manager of the Lamp Products Operation. Mr. Baker was elected a Company Vice President in October 1977. Two months larer he became Group Executive of the Lighting Business Group in Cleveland, Ohio; and in October 1979 was made Executive Vice Tickets may be purchased at the door for $4. Full time students under 25 years of age are admitted for $2. (CPS)-College lobbyists in Washington say they like President Reagan's proposal for a new education tax .savings plan, but warily are witholding support for it until they hear the details. \I think the principle the government is putting forward here is extremely positive,\ says Bob Aaron, SpOkesman for the American Council on Education and a leader in the . lobbying effort last year that helped defeat the president's proposed financial aid cuts. But Aaron says much depends on how the pr.inciple is put into .----------------------- .... -effect. The ''principle\ is something The Union Outing Club presents: ••soLO'' the spectacular, award•winning film of one man's remarkable and daring climb in the Tetons. Tuesday, Feb. 15th All are welcome 7:30p.m. in Strauss Refreshments Served called the Individual Education Accoimt (lEA), which would be similar · to the Individual Retirement Account (IRA). Under the plan, parents could put away a certain amount of money--say, $2,000·-a year toward their kid's college- education, and deduct the amount from their total taxable income. Consequently, the parents pay less in taxes~ each year by saving toward college. The money stays in the ac- count, earning a high interest, until the dependent starts college. As the money is with· drawn, the parents reportedly would be taxed on the interest earned, but not on the amound they originally deposited. The tentative plan was leaked to the press two weeks before President Reagan was due to publish his proposed budget. which would include the lEA if Reagan ultimately decides to adopt it. One college lobbyist labeled it \a trial balloon\ to see if it would be palatable to replace the federal capital contributions to the National Direct Student Loan program, the State Student Incentive Grants, . and the Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant. Indeed, most of the .lobbyists questioned said they'd support the idea only if it wasn't used to replace other forms of-federal student aid. \If the IEA would be a replacement for need-based - aid, we would not support it,\ Aaron says. \If it is a sup- plement to need-based aid, we wou'td support it.'' \Until we really see the budget ya~kage as a whole, we don't kfiow how to react,\ adds Dennis Martin of the National Association of· Student Financial Aid' Administrators. \If I were king, as it were, I would hope it would not take away from any existing student aid,\ he notes. ' \If this is being proposed in place of a number· of ~~in~ funds,\ observes Wllbam Laidlaw of the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Busmess, \I would not be in favor of it.\ Laidlaw. also wants to see the plan's details before supporting it. He wanted to know in par- ticular how much· the money in the account would be taxed when it is withdrawn. \If you take a tax bite out of it when you're ready to use it, you would kill.it,\ he asserts. Details of the plan won't be available for the time being, says Duncan , Heltnrich, U.S. Dept. of Education spokesman. \Someone around here is working on it, but we don't have anything to release_yet.\ Even before it's reieased, the lobbyists' major criticism of the tax savings principle is that it benefits only wealthier families. The tax break, Martin says, \works only to the extent that · you hav~ a meaningfully large income. You can't save money you don't have.'' \A family of four making $12,000 a year is not going to be able to sock away $2,000 a year for a college education,\ Aaron adds. \These (incentives) do not help the intellectually· talented children who are in the ghetto.'' . . Aaron speculates that in 2001 \we will look back on· this proposal and find the average family taking advantage of it had an income of $40,000.'' It may take that long .f()r 'the real benefits of the savings plan to app-ear, Martin adds. \We're talking about assistance that will come a generation -Jrom now. It does not speak to the needs of the students now.\

...... course 1 which ffort is i\ndrea only be ~torial\ ·ge the s skills [hat a ~tudies act as IShman arning . The te im- oup in llveraU mdar :sed in of the out a heads 1em to > what lendar ~ard to ments. rnitted rea by n 'con- IP the demic JE.As sort of ~sand fairly E was 'some com- IS ~'the 1g in :s and about the \the at of it you be u.s. is the it that be do the 2001 this it that the CQNCORDIENSIS, February 10}. 1988 Page 5 Alumni Coultcil. Election Statements Adam Brodsky We do-gooders just can't get this Winter Wonderland out of our systems. As one such character; I have been asking myself why I want to be an · A:lu-mnl Council Representative. Perhaps I simply care. I care beyond urging you to attend Alumni affairs and helping to solicit monies. I care beyond being listed . in . the College mag;;lzine at RetJpion time. In a small way, as naive as it sounds, I wish to make this Godforsaken place better. Yes,. Hom1coming is an im- · portant event that can be made more successful. But,, as Representative for the Class of '83, I can do more and tackle those disappointments we see -in our·everyday life at the college. Need tuition skyrocket for undergraduates in the eighties? What of the Student Center and . other desperately needed facilities (additional quality housing and a student:\Oriented athletic set up)? And whatever happened to the \classy\ red;. carpet treatment given graduates and the like. Enough of the words and on to action. ·For those who want credentials and proof of. past sincere . commitment, I · am presently E'ditor of the newspaper, a former Orien- tation Committee member, a Gatesrnan: and .a participant in ot)ler campus activities too dull to mention. , All that I pledge is my best effort in tbe posifion of Alumni CouncU Representative. Adam Brodsky Ilene S. Landress . ' - . - . In about 175;680. minutes (give or. take a couple of seconds) we the Class of 1983 will no longer be seniors, we will be alwnni! No longer w'Ul we have to worry about finishing theses' chapters or avoiding 8=30's. We will stop pondering why theSkellar is nQt as popular as it was in our freshman year,, or_ why Price ·chopper is more f~ in the wee hours of tlie :mOrning. We will, however, always remember the four years we spent at Union. Just as your memocy begins to fade,' and you can't quite remember whether the Nott has 1~ or 16 sides, your Alumni Council Representative will jolt ~ your memory and keep you in touch with the \going's on\ at the College. Over the last .four years 1 have become increasingly in· volved in many aspects of :the Union community. My service to Union as both an elected representativ-e and as an ap- pointed col11mittee member in numerous organizations, ·has enabled me to work closely with fellow students, faculty members and administrators. As President of the Student Body, I have acquired a sense of appreciation for the history and the. future of the College. It is my continuous in- volvement in student affairs over tile .past four years that leads rne to run for the position of Alumni Council Represen• tative. I am anxious to continue my commitment to the College by serving as the link between Union and the Class of 1983. Along with planning class reunions, I loQk forward to keeping both those .of you who move to warmer climates and those who choose to llrave the Schenectady tundra for a few more years acquainted with the progress of Union. So please-when you pass through Carnegie to check your mail, take a minute and stop and vote for Alumni Council Representative! ! CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS AD~ Bouse Like, everyone these daysf fraternities here at Union are suffering from increased costs, and less n1oney. Independent fraternities (those that own their own houses) are now being plagued by the need to renovate their buildings to meet the flre and safety codes of Schenec- tady. the Finance Committee which , approves the Concert Com- mittee's budget. The losses are projected on the basis of a calculated attendance. In the case of Southside, the at- tendance was below the ex- pected levels. Also, several other_ unecpectedly high ex- penses drove up the costs. Even with all these troubles the Concert Committee was · only over budget by $61.50. Hopefully these .problems will not plague the BowWowWow concert. But if we want con- tinued performances we must show the Finance Committee that we are willing to support continued concerts by attending them. fourths of the 765 high•tech employers who responded plann~d either to keep hiring at . 1982 levels, or to hire fewer -newly-graduated engineering· and computer scienc¢ majors. ''In previous years, the engineer didn't have to work· hard to get a job 1 \ says Sandra Grundfest, who edited the guide . to high-tech emJ>loyment. This year, grads will \have to scramble, start early, and make decisions early,\ she advises. Grundfest adds it may be a little early to feel sorry for the high-tech grads. Their job market is worse when com- · pared to demand for their · services in prior years, but it's . positively rosy in comparison to Week ~n- ·d· what other· st.udents have to - v endure to _get .Jobs. Parent's Ilene S. Landress Stephen· Verp As our days at Union wind down, we are faced with the prospect of soon becoming alumna-us. For most seniors, this signifies the end of active participation in school affairs. However, - for the Alumni Council Representative, the end of the undergraduate career is just the beginning. Through committee work and council meetjngs, the Alwnni Council represents the opinion of the alumni in Union College's decision-making process. The advice and consent of the Alumni Council weighs heavily in the day to day affairs and administration of Union. M:y motivations for seeking this position are pride, care and concern. First, I have a great deal of pride in Union College and fu the .many friends and acquaintances made along the way. Secondly,. I care not only about the quality of education and reputation, but also the other social components which help to make college a ' well- rounded learning experience. Finally, I am concerned witli where Ur:don College presently stands and what it will be like in the future. Personally, I want to continue my affiliation and involvement with Union College and see to it that I can con- tribute constructive input, based on my experiences at Union College over the past four years. What the Class of '83 needs, to continue active participation in the affairs of Union College, is an honest, innovative, effective individual who has the ability to deal with people. I am ready, able and anxious to represent our class on the Alumni Council. No matter whom you vote for, get out and support the can- didate of your choice for Alumni Council Representative (Steve Verp) on Tuesday,.Februar.y 15. Jim Carrol My name is Jim Carroll and I'm ·running for Alumni Council Representative. The A.lumni Council Representative will be our liaison with Union after we . graduate on· June 12th. As we · move into our careers and . develop lives of our own, we need someone who will keep us .. informed about the goings on at Union. The two major respon- sibilities of the Alumni Council . are to provide . input into decisions which affect College policies, such as those on dorm . life, admissions and recruiting, • and to coordinate future Homecomings and Re-Union Weekends. After being involved in the Residence Life Program, as an RA and a head RA for the last three years and, among other things, co-chairman of lights and sound for Cabaret, I have had a great deal of experience behind. the scenes at Union. I have also grown to love this school and have worked hard to make' it better for us all while I've been here. I will be working in the area after graduating, which will make it easy to keep in touch with the campus and its changes. On Tuesday, February 15th, we will be electing two people to represent us for the next five years. I would like very much to be one of them. Thank you. \ ·- Jim Carrol One such fraternity, ADP (Alpha IJelta Phi), must make immediate improvements to their house to remain there in the future. -The price tag for these :cenov.ations is between $15,000 and $20,000. ADP has two avenues to finance the necessary repairs. On the one hand,. brotliers.of the fraternity hope to see Alumni donate the needed money; this would enable ADP to- remain an in· dependent fraternity. · On the other hand, ADP may be forced to work-out an agreement with the College in order to fund the renovations. T_he Parents Weekend \I don't think there is a serious unemployment problem '----.::;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;:===;;:~--.1 for engineers,\ she sum- marizes. ''This year (the grad will get) two or three or four\ job offers. Last year there might have been nine or ten. · ADP is not the_ only fraternity facing unattainable repair costs. Psi Vpsilon has been forced to strike an accord with the administration in order to make needed improvements. Due to increased costs, the d.ays of fratemity houses being in· dependent of college control may be coming to an end· much to the dismay of fraternity brothers at Union. · . South Side -Johnny For all those people who attended' the South Side Jo~y concert on Nov. 1, it will come as a surprise that even though there was a great turn out of people, the Concert Committee lost approximately $10,000. Although it was not expected to be that high . · a loss states Larry Lieberman, Chairman- of the Concert Committee. All concerts are planned to run -of deficit, an accepted prl:!,ctice __ allowed by Committee is rapidly ap- proach.irig its goal for_ a suc- cessfulevent on May 6, 7, and 8. Scheduling of each event is being discussed, as new and old ideas for activities emerge. A logo has been devised and should prove quite effective. This year's committee is striving for more participation,· through increased. advertising starting earlier in the year than usual. Articles and ads have already appeared in Con- cordiellsis, the Chronicle and on dorm bulletin boards. Also, signs were posted in ·regard to student talent needed for the Ramada Inn Dance referred to as \a ·special night.\- Jobs for GrO:ds PRINCETON, NJ Engineering and computer science grads, guaranteed a pick of jobs. in recent years, may have a harder time landing work this year, according to a new survey of engineering firms' hiring plans by Peter,.. son's Guides. The survey· found that ·three- The high-tech grads are consequently settling for a little less. \Students are accepting jobs earlier, even if it's not .exactly what they want. H · Employers, according to the survey, also found students more willing to relocate than in past years. . The blip in the high-tech hiring market isn't enough to convince more engineers to go into teaching, and thus ease the terrible teacher shortage and classroom overcrowding problems plaguing virtually all engineering schools. \Going into teaching means you have to put in three-ttrfour years\ .after getting a b.s., observesW.EdwardLear of the American · Society for Engineering Education, . · He doesn't believe one·year of so(tness in the· job market is · goi!lg to convb,lce manyngrads to mvest the ttme in teaching .. He says \nine-to-ten percent\ ·· of the 18,000 college engineering teaching positions in America · remain vacant. GOOD PAY FOR ENGINEERING STUDENTS •.• $900??? Over $900.00 per month during your senior year. The Air Force has a new financial aid program for 'students in various engineering fields. Both iuniors and seniors may apply. Our scientific- engineering officers are planning and designing tomorrow's weapon systems. An Air Force experience is second to none. Find out more today if Y.!>U qualify. Contact your local Air Force Recruiter: Call MSgt Paul Kalinoswki at ( 518) 472- 4484. A great wov of life

J· . I j I ll i• d Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, February 10, 1983 FEATURES Humor Revolving Doors Primal· Fea-r Suzanne is a )'9.ung nurse on · her way home fr()m wotk one evening. She is a normal quite ordinary woman.. She has a career, a, boyfrien(,i; sl1e bas everything to· live for. Until she documentary footage newsreels, interviews, and supporting narratives. Scenes showing the mass rape of Asian women and women victimized in wars are intercut into Suzanne's story. By MATr NANKIN Staff The following editorial was aired on the WRUC 6:15 News this past Sunday. It is printed here in its entirety. It is no secret that the Skellar has somewhat lost its popularity. There was a time not so long ago when one had to wait in line to enter on a Friday or Saturday night. }3ut that is no more. My own test of whether or not the Skellar is crowded. consists of standing against one of the booths and -looking straight over to the opposite wall. If I can see the wall without anyone in the way, then I consider the place uncrowded. Lately, I have been able to see the entire opposite wall, the flipper buttons on the pinball machines, and the colorful round player button on TRON. Unlike others who may lament this situation, I have developed an alternative plan to straighten out this campus- \The Nankin Revolving Door Alternative,\ Which consists of the following: Phase One: Convert the present Skellar into the new Cabaret Room. The tables and booths are already there, as are the eating facilities. With the addition of extra space, Cabaret may now be shown more .often to more people. One show could be for those ,Without talent and the other for those who have some. Another added attraction to Cabaret in the Skellar would be that the place would not have to be cleaned up. ~ach week the new pretzels could justbe added to the old ones that were thrown the previous week. Pbase Two: Convert the Gabaret Room into the new Game Room. In this part o( the plan, not only will the Game Room become more popular as students will not be able to r~Sist going in as they walk nght past it, but also it will now be located closer to the{ Game Room Attendant, who may keep an eye on goings on. After all,. who can ever forget last year when the coin box from Bank Shot was viciously and maliciously tom out from un- derneath it. In addition, think of all the prospective-students ;who will be impressed with the fact that pinball machines and' video games ar.e Such-an important part of campus recreational acitivty. The only negative aspect of this phase of my plan would be that Dave, Chip; and their dog Brew will have to walk down a flight of stairs to play MiSsile Command. Phase Three: Convert the present Game Room into the new Concordiensis office. In this phase, meant to help our campus newspaper, the Con- cordy would be brought down one flight closer to ''the people'' and its location on the second (third?) floor of Carnegie will allow it to keep a closer eye on the \miscellaneous\ activities of WRUC. Phase Four: Convert the present Concordiensls office (including the rest of the top floor of Carnegie) into the new al-student dining hail that we have all been hearing so much about for the past FIVE years. The new dining hall col.lld have a giant picture window offering an exciting panoramic view of Jackson's Garden. Although the food might not be any better, the nice scenery and the long walk Up four flights of stairs might help take our minds ·off an·· otherwise depressing situation. Phase Five: Relocate the Campus Ministry, Fourth Floor Lounge, and the Jazz Ensemble Room to the first floor of Old Chapel and Hale House (now vacated by the new dining hall in Carnegie) . Phase Six: Convert the first floor of West College into new Student Residences in the hope that this will help relieve some of the overcrowded/housing situations that presently exist. In conclusLon, let it be said that there really are no complex. problems, only complex an .. swers. This is Matt Nankin with one's man opinion. Note: The views and opinions expressed by Mr. Nankin do not necessarily represent those of WRUC or Concordiensfs. is rape<l . . . · An ordinary woman vica timized by a crime which is itself becoming too ordi(lary. Primal Fear begins with this chilling, unf()rgettable depiction of Suzanne's: rape am:l follows her subsequent <leterlorization into a confll$ion of fear, .shame and guilt. For Suzanne, as for man,y women, \Rape is . . . a forcmg of the soul. I caught fear,\ she says. \It's~ like something is hroken inside me- as if I've lost love inside.''' PI'bnal Fear is about rape. · It's . about Suzanne's rape,, in parti<:ular, and the politicS~ of rape m general. Prbnal Fear, the latest work of Anne-Claire Poirer, a \'French-Canadian filmmaker, gives Suzanne's story a larger societal and historical perspective through a skillful imaginative use of Human Rights Mart Niklus, a 48-year-old F;Jstonian biologist, is serW1g a fifteen year sentence imposed on him for \anti•Soviet agitation and propaganda.\ Niklus was one of 45 Estonians, Lithuanians, and Latvians who signed an appeal calling on the Soviet Union to declare the German-Soviet Non .. Aggression Pa(,!t of 1939 void. Among other things, the pact led to Estonia becoming part of the USSR. The appeal was signed in August of 1979. Niklus· was arrested two months later on charges of making \anti-soviet telephone calls\ to Sweden and listening wi-th students to \Voice of America.\ Labeled an \especially dangerous recidivist,\ he was sentenced to ten years'· imprisomnent and five years' external exile. The sentence was not Niklus' first. In 1959 he was convicted of \rendering services to the in- ternational bourgeoisie\ because he gave Finnish students fifteen photographs showing alleged shortc()mings of Soviet life. While serving a ten-year sentence, he made the first translation of Darwin's works into Estonian. The film also sets up a mock trial in which women of all ages, type, class and nationality, are given the chance to ,put their rapists on . the stand. Employers, fathers, husbands, soldiers and psychiatrists, .among others, are accused and questioned by their victims. They ask \why?\ ·and \What can be done-now?\ Anne-Claire Poirer, writer and dire.ctor ·of Primal Fear, has made her film one which attempts to understand an that rape is--its political; economic, racial and personal ·ramifications. Primal Fear is a filmic document of great im- portance, £or it makes one of the first serious examinations of why men rape, and what men and women together can do about it. lr:tcludes: I • Round trip airfare (N.Y.)* I I • 7 nights accommodation 1 1 • Parties · I • Sports I • Activities I 1 More! · I I r1 MAR OS·MAR 13 rJ MAR27-APR o3 1 I [J MAR 13-fy!AR 20 fJ APR 03-APR 10 I [J MAR 20-MAR 27 U APR 10-APR 17 I 0 I'm Ready to Party! . I Cheerleaders at Union When released in 1966, Niklus was not allowed to continue work as a biologist. At t}le time of his 1981 arrest he was a language teacher in an e.vening school. 1 .l'veenclosedmy$50 I I deposit and have checked . myweek. I 1 o Almo~t ready. Send 1 By DAVE FITZGERALD Staff Everybody appreciates their presence at home football and basketball games,. yet the Union College Cheerleaders receive very little attention. In fact this is the first article written about the cheerleaders since the group formed about three and a half years ago. Our cheerleaders have been working hard over the last few years and now they are receiving some long deserved attention. Currently there are ten cheerleaders at Union. About half of them were cheerleaders in high school, so they come to Union with some experience in cheerleading and a few cheers of their own. In fact, according to Sue Wilder, head of the cheerleaders, most of the new · cheers in the Union squad's routine come from old high school cheers that freshmen cheerleaders learned in high school. . The cheerleading squad has developed over the last few years as new people and new cheers have come to the squad. In the future it is hoped that they can cheer our teaDlS to victory at away g;m1es as well as home games. Currently the squad does not 'have enough money to travel. The total budget for the enti!:e squad for this year is just seventy dollars. This money is used to have uniforms cleaned. and to pur- chase flowers. ~ Although Sue Wilder does not feel that· the crowds at games COUNSELOR POSITIONS At leading Private Coed Camp with Modern Facilities on 380 Acre Campus overlooking its pvt. lakes in N.E. PA. (150 miles from N. Y .C.) for well qualified, talented & skilled activity leaders for all Landsports, Tennis, Golf, Swimming, Boating, Canoeing, Waterskiing, Crafts, Ceramics, Woodworking, Photography, Teen Leaders working with mature staff from many regions for period June 23rd thru Aug. 22nd. Write or Call Camp Starlight of Starlight, PA., NY Office 18 Clinton St., MaNerne, NY 11565 or call 516a599-5239. ON CAMPUS REPReSENTATIVE: ERIC HORNICK 370-6109, Box 981 are overly responsive to their cheers, she does feel that they give moral support. She is not certain if the cheerleaders' presence help our teams to win, · but she feels that the players like to know that there is someone who cares and is rooting for them. There are plans to improve the squad further and if you would like to know more you can contact Sue Wilder. Niklus is now held in the . special regime section 9f Perm Corrective .Labor Colony No. 36. Like most prisoners there, he spends almost 24 hours-a-day in his cell. To learn more about the case of Mart Niklus or other sucli cases of human rights violations, join the Union College section of Amnesty International on any Thursday at 6:45 in the Social Sciences lounge. · • 4th ANNUAL more mfo. I • Add $40 from D.C., Hartford, I I Philadelphia, Boston I 'Plus ~5% tax ancf:ser'Yice ~~~ I I.Address I I City . . State . __ I ~ Zip . . . Phone I I Departure City : I ~.:_.!$~ I I 501 Mad1son Avenue I New Yo<k,.N Y.·10022 L . . (2l2~35S-C705 (800)223·0694 .. -------- MOLSON PARTY IS COMING~ .• Feb. 18th lO p.m.

••• tage, :, and Scenes FAsian imized t into t mock ~ages, ty, .are t their stand. bands, trists, edand lctims, \what writer Fear, which tll that 11omic, rsonal arisa :tt im- ~ of the ms of t men an do Y.)\ I tion 1 I I I ()3 I 17 I I I I I I I I I I I I OONOORDIENSIS, Febr'U(),rrg 10, 1988 Pa.ge 7 ,. :_ . ). FEATURES Humor - News In Brief By BOB VANVORIS Staff Union Pulling Ahead According to key members of Union's administration, the college has begun action on a number of measures which they believe will make Union the academic equal of any in- stitution in the country, Reports Arthur D. .Leech, assistant to President Morris, \Of course the most · visible step in this process has been t!J.e ten .per- cent rise in tuition for the 1984:. 85 year. We. feel that this is very important given that other comparable schools have also called for tuition increases.... In Leech's opinion, however, this is only the first step. \Well to be honest, we would like to see the suicide rate go up a point or two next year.\ According to Leech, the low suicide rate evidences a low pressure,. ''laid back\ atmosphere that jJ,lSt isn't synonymous with a demanding,academic program. \We're not trying to do an hin drastic here ... ma be He.alt:h Services prepares for major diarrhea outbreak. two or three more suicides, a nervous breakdown or two .. this is something which would make ustruly com~tiUve with, say, a .school like Cornell.?' Another disappointing trend in recent years has been tbe declining number of students visiting Union's Counseling Center. ''We're really not upto par with the other colleges in the area of drug and alcohol problems either,\ laments Leech, \but one area in which students what he was talking about. Let we hope to correct this in the majoring in the sciences \just me quote one of his most future.\ don't. get a fa·1'r cha·nce.\ f . amous passages: 'I once shot Philosphy Dept. Criticized Wear.ing a button which bears an elephant in my majamas .. Union's Lrirberal Learning the .slogan ''Immanuel Kant; how he got in my pajamas, I'll programhas come under attack why should I?\ Sch()penhauer never know. • Well; if he doesn't for various reasons in recent argUes that Philosophy is a know, why should I be expected weeks, lending support to the \completely worthless\ to?\ ~ conclusion that more and more discipline. \All these In ·response to students are becoming philosophers seem to do is sit Schopenhauer's criticisms, dissatisfied with it. One of the ar()~d and think. This is quite Department Chairperson Renee most outspoken critics is an fore1gn to most engineers.\ Descartes said, \I don't know Electrical Engineering major FUrther, he feels that most of w:hat he's talking about. We who feels that it is unfair that the .questions posed by have made evecy .effort to ac- science majors. are made to philosophers are unanswerable, comodate these people without take courses in the Humanities and therefore a waste of time. compromising the integrity of and Social Sciences. His name \Take Philosophy 36, 'Marxist the department. In fact,_ we're is Lester''Buzz'' SchQpenhauer, P)illosophy,' for example. Marx offering two courses for non- and he sm lets out Phil~QSO~~h~· pas~\\hims\\~. ~e~lf~w-as~n 4 't•e\vl!!!!en~s~ur~·~e~of~·m~· a~j~o\rs_in.mith~e~s~p~r~in~g~.'~' '!.~;'\.; ( . :' v···:; . ,•.• .. . .:-· .;- :~ . . . ~--··. -: .,_ ·,-·-·: < .• ·-~ ·'*· •' ,_ ~- . :!\? .. · '\''\'·\'''\\' .. :• ..•... ;,.;.,,., ·· · · ... ,~·,,~>).{{:,;i~}AVAILABLE AT THE DUTCH HOLLOW PUB.':·'·, .. · . The finest ale br~~ed ~d. b~tti;di~· c~~d~. [~p~~·ted by. Martlet lmporting·c~: ,. Inc. I Great Neck: N.Y. © 1982. courses to which Professor Descartes refers are PH-14,' \Philosercise and PH-29, \Let's Get Metaphysical.\ Pope Supports New Law Pope John Paul ll has in- dicated that he plans to give his \full support\ to a proposed piece of canon law which the Holy Father believes will help to eliminate Rome's multi- billion dollar budget deficit. The proposal has the support of the Church's conservative wing and · has been nicknamed the \Balanced Dudget Com- mandment.\ Says the bill's sponsor, Strom Cardinal Thurmondi, \We expect it to pass the College of Cardinals but we're not so sure about the Archbishops. We know that the Dominicans are solidly behind us and F.lis Holiness has been lobbying the Jesuits pre.tty hard.\ Indeed, some have accused the pontiff of \hardball tactics.\ Catholic scholars are divided over whether or not the original Ten Commandments should be amended to remedy a strictly fiscal matter. Father Francis O'Donogue (Undersecretary of Defense under Pope Paul, now president of his own consulting firm) thinks not. \Those who are tempted to change the Commandments would do well to look at the history of the 28th amendment.\ This amend- ment, ratified in the year 919, banned alcoholic beverages within the limits of the Vatican . It was a popular failure, however, and signalled the beginning of the \Era of Rathtub Sacramental Wine.\ Cancer Link Disproved An article in this week's issue of the New England Journal of Medicine states flatly that n() connection can be found bet- ween the consumption of diet soft drinks containing sac- charine and increased in- cidence of cancer. According to the authors, laboratory rats were given relatively large amounts of various popular soft drinks, with apparently little effect. ''There was no evidence of either disease or abnormality to be found in the animals beyond what could be found in the control group.\ One dif- ference, however, was noted in the group which was raised on \Tab\ cola. \The 'Tab' animals became preoccupied with their physical appearance, never seeming to tire of grooming themselves and looking at the1.11selves in the pocket rnirrors with which we provided them. We even had to put one of them to sleep when it was discovered that it had been stealing credit cards to buy designer clothing., Killer Killed '. The Student Senate has voted to outlaw the popular game \KillerH at Union on the grounds that it \fosters an unhealthy atmosphere of mutual fear and suspicion.\ Members also deplored the fact that the game makes light of a very serious crime; that of murder. Several ideas for a game to replace Killer are under consideration, among them \Kleptomaniac.' .. Arl[lonist,\ and \Ch1ld Molester.\

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, Feb;ua,ry 10, 1983 1WRUC 7 90.9 fm • stereo · TRIVIA will be broadcast starting this Sunday 2-13 and the next 1wo Sundays from 9-12 p.m. on WRUC. l. To receive credit for answering a trivia question you must simply be the first caller with the correct answer. To reach WRUC, yo.u may either dial 370-6151 or 370-6154 (disregard the 370 if on centrex). 2 •. If you are the Hrst correct caller you will be asked to state the team which you want to represent. That team will then get one point. When identifying your team, be sure to be precise--1st floor Davidson and Davidson House will be considered two different teams. At no time will scores of di\fferent teams b·e combined. 3. A tofal of 300 single point questions will be asked 000 per night). In the case certain questions are l.ater disqualified, alternative questions will be asked. 4. At the end of the first and second nights, a five-point question wi II be asked. This question can only be answered at the beginning of next week's questioning session. You wi II be told when to ca I L at that time. 5. The teams with the most points in their respective divisions at the end of the three nights wH I each be awarded prizes. There wi II be three categories:. TRIVIA I) Dormitories (top 3 are winners) Jl) Fraternities (top 2 are wirnners) 1'1 I) Independents Ctop 4 are win·ners) 6. Individual prizes will be awarded to the person calling in the first correct answer to selected questions. ·· 7. The prizes will 'be worth well over $1500 including, but not l.jmited to: 20 Kegs of Beer from E & D Beverages 20 Records 50 Posters 30 Pa Pil Cicco's Pizzas 12 Foot-Long Subs from Subway Sub Shop · 2 Six- Foot Subs from Subway Sub Shop 5 'Haircuts and Stylings at Forever Young Hair Design 3 $4 Lunch Certificates at .Ingrid's 2 Seasons Country Breakfasts l Peter Pause Breakfast 9$5 Gift Certi:ficates at Orion Boutique and Smoke Shop 8. The decisions of the judges Js final. WRUC Trivia is sponsored by E &· D Beverages and the makers of Pabst Beer •. ATTHE RAT Starting Feb. 13th: we will be OPEN on SUNDAY & MONDAY NIGHTS on a trial basis till 12:00 a.m~ DAILY FOOD SPECIALS MONDAY -Skellar Rib Sandwich With Fries ...•••..•••..•.•.•.•. $1.75 TUESDAY-Turkey Club. With Fries .•..•....•......•....•.•..• $2.50 WEDNESDAY-. Grilled Ham & Cheese With Fries ....•......•.. ~ $1.75 THURSDAY-Chicken Nuggets With Fries ....•......•..•.•.•..• $1.70 FRIDAY-. Pizza Roll With Fries ..•••...••••.•••.••••.••...•.•. $1.75 START'ING FRIDAY FEBRUARY 11,1983 Attitude ·Readiustment Period 7-9 p.m. PIZZA: 75c Slice FREEPOPCORN-FREESMALLSODA DRAFTS 40c Glass-PITCHERS $2.00 Patrons Must Be.l9 Year.~. Old to Be Served . - Anaconda-Kaye Sports, Inc. 44 0 State Street - Schenectady, N.Y. 12'305 518-382·2061 ·---···---···-·-····-··. ~ With this Coupon and Union. I. D. I · I ·$5.00 OH: I I On A Canvas or Nylon Sneaker I I OR I. I •8.00 Off ' ' I I On A leather Sneaker I I (Off the suggested retail price) I ........................ - ' OPEN MON.-FRI. Evenings Till 9:00 p.m. I , NOTICE! BE IN THE FOREFRONT OF TODAY'S TECHNOLOGY AS A SCIENTIFIC-EN.GINEERING OFFICER The Our scientific-engineering officers \are planning and designing· tomorrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeing their ideas and concepts materialize. They have· the finest, state-of-the-art equipment to.test their theories. The working envi- ronment is conducive to research. And Air Force ex· perience is second to none. You can be part of this dynamic team if you have a scientific or engineering degree. Your first step will be Officer Training School. Help us shape our .future as we help you start yours. Be a scientific-engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at (518) 472-4484 ask for MSgt Paul; Kalinowski. Interested Freshman and Sophomores should contact ROTC_ Repteselltative, llt. Ron Schwing, at 270-6236'. Juniors and seniors contact MSgt Paul Kalinowski. A great way of life. package room · hours on Fridays ' \ ONLY have been changed from 1:30-2:30 to 3:30·5.:00

~he \'Ot !er -. I I I I I .I I I I I I I CONOORDIENSIS, February 10, 11J83 Page9 £ • I FEATURES' Live at Union- .,. The· Rowi-n-g Stones T • 1- ·1- x· ~-- · ·T· · · hi· ? . It e ... ·. . n _· rou - e. ByLORlFAVA'l'A Staff What are stone boats? Basically, they are b<)ats that · look like concrete 'Canoes. Stone boats have ~en arotmd for p tong time, but .it ·wasn,t until seven years .ago that people became interested and started building them. The popularity of theSe boats increased as a result of a design competition for engineers. The object then, as it is today,. was to see who could build the best and fastest boat. Here at Union, the Stone Boat Club builds two boats during the fall and winter of each . year. The process starts witH a wooden mold in the shape of a canoe. Wire is placed over the frame and stapled down. Cement is PliShed· through the wire and once hardened the fvame is removed. Two ad- ditional layers of cement are added inside Ute original to complete the craft. In the spring th_e boats are brought to other colleges for racing competition. There are three races each spring, usually against such schools as Syracuse, Penn State, or Westpoint, For any school to qualify ,for com,petition . they - must have made a new boat over the course of the year. Recently the competition ~s become more vigorous as new techniques for making the 'boats lighter and stronger are being discovered. Generally about ten schools compete in each meet. For the past two years Union has done impressively well, coming in first in one or two of the meets and .placing in the top three in others. , Doug MacFadden, the club president, emphasizes that Union's racers t~nd to be very strong .paddlers. Two people make Up the team for one of four race classifications: male, female race, coed race, faculty race, or long dlsbince. The club now has about twenty members who are currently building two boats -for spring competition. Work is done on these boats· each S·aturday at 12:00 p.m. in Butterfield Hall. A diSplay of the boats used previously is located in the hallway between Steinmetz and Buttetlield Hall. For more -information about the club contact Doug MacFadden at 370-6499. SO.UTH COLLEGE PARTY Friday, Feb. 18th Alumni Gym-1-0:00 p.m. Free Beer' & Entertainment FEATU'RtNG , . \Cha.rlie T and the Grads\ EVERYONE IS WELCOME By DAVID GAEDE Well•dressed members of Denver's conservative circle were recently milling around the exclusive Denver , _Athletic Club, embraci~g, sipping cocktails, and chatting about socialists in the .government, liberals runninlredllcation, and communists controlling the media. · · 'l'hey' d gathered to honor tiny Hillsdale College, a private Michigan school that has become something of a con· servative crusade against the federal government's .presence in higher education. In December, HillSdale won its seven•year battle to evade federalrequirements t~ prove it doesn't discriminate against women. The Denver crowd may have been dancing on the grave of the rule that .prohibits colleges from discriminating on the basis of gender: Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. \Hillsdale is just one in a series of cases detrimental to the enforcement of Title IX which the Education Dept. has allowed to pass without. so much as an appeal,\ complains Margeret Kohn of the National , Women's Law Center in. Washington, D~C. the cUFrent state of Title IX, adds Ruth Berkey, director of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's women's sports division, ''isn't very en- couraging.\ Women's groups now believe the only measure left to h~lp­ them get the government to enforce anti-sex bias rules is a U.S. Supreme Court decision. One is coming in a fight witb.. 109 Canal ~quare, J:Sroadway, ~ch'dy. Phone: .374-4332 P ·Iz· ZA . N.Y.S Style SiciU_ian Sty!e (Ue_ epdiah) - • · . • 8\ cut - 12\ cut · 24\ cut Cheese 4.50 5.50 8.15 Ex. Cheese 5.50 6.50 fo.so Sausage 5.50 6.50 10.501 Mushroom s.5·o 6.50 10.501 Pepperoni 5.50 6.50 10.sd. Green Peppen 5.50 6.50 10.50 Meatballs \ 5.50 6.50. 10.50 Onions . 5.50· 6.50 10.50 Anchovies . 5.50 6.50 10.50 Any Add Item .75 1.00 1.75 Papa Cicco's_,Deluxe · _10.00 13.50 21.00 WHITE PIZZA THE SHRIMP 11-IE'WHITE OUR SPECIALTY SCAMPI -ClAM SAUCE - Try Oiu: Today- PIZZA . ' PIZZA Pizza with no sauce Sh~imp and Garlic Pizza with White Clam Sprinkled with Olive Oil with Ot,·v~ Oil and Sauce and Garlic: with and F re•h Garlic with mounds of ·Mozzarella cheese Mozzarella c:heelli! · Mo;Ezarella c:heese 8 cu~t 4 75 L1. 7_.25 6.~0 Lc. • Sicilli~tn 12 cut 5.50 Sicillian 1% cut 8.00 l:l cut 7.25 24 cut 9.59 24 cut 11.00 , 24 cut 10.25 • ITALIAN SANDWICHES • t. • .tatball 2.20 Steak 2.8!) Meatball Parmiritma SausaJe · S.usace Par!T'iriana S.uaace. & P\ppors En Plant Parmiriana 2.60 · Salami I! Provalone 2.80 2.20 Proaciotto it Provalone '3.25 2~60 • Sa.ndwiches with ~ppera 20' extra . 2.4_5_ Sandwic:~es·wi1~ Mush,rooms·-2': edra 2.70 Sandw1chu w1th Om~m• 10' ,~tra. -· · Italian Roasted Pep~rs 2Sl .U'ra • 'SPEC,AL TIES.. , Calton~ 41troflun• l:ll•d •nh·R•t•••·•h .... , •PJ/ain 2.35 ' Ham 2.t5 .,,, . ., ••• u., '\'• ·• Sa us ace 2.75 Proaeiotto. 3.05 r--------------FREEMERCHANofs-e-----~------1· E~ery time you get a pizza or sandwiches valuecJ at more than i $4:'oo you will receive a coupon • save them for Free Merchandise. 1 lSCoupons 18c;ut·Free(cheeseonly) : 20Coupons 1_12cut Free (c:;heeseonly) 1 25 Coupons .. 1 2_.. cut Free ( llngredlent) 1 so Coupons '12 keg of-beer t3 days notic~) I, 100 Coup<ms Pizza Party fbr 25 ~ople -with beer at your. : 1 dorm or fl'aternlty (2 days notice) • L-~----•---~-----•---~-------~-~------~------· ·WE DEtiVER ·ON CAMP,US ·PHO·NE 374-4332 Grove City College in Penn- sylvania. , \What we need is a Supreme Court.ruling,\ contends Bernice Sandler, director of the Association of American Colleges' PrQ)ect on the Status and Education of Women. \Until that happens, Title IX is going to get a 'lund of -frac- tional coverage.\ At stake is equal opportunity for women .in \virtually ev«iry area of higher education, ,m- cluding areas no one ever thought it would cover,\ says Tom Jones, an attorney with the National Organ~ation on Legal Problems in Education (NOLPE). Jones says that since Title IX became law, coU~ges have been forced to eliminate biases against women in their sports programs, application and enrollment p.rocedures., financial aid programs, and even from hiring an firing procedures. , For mstance, ''in three years during the 196~'s, Virginia state colleges rejected 21,000 ad- missions applications from women, and not one man was rejected,'' Sandler says. \At least Title IX has helped stop. things as blatant and damaging as that.\ But to Title IX opponents, the stakes are a college ad- ministration's feeedom from government interference. Hillsdale, among others, was angered by the government's attempts to enforce the law, which says schools that don't sign ''assurances of com· pliance\ with Title IX stand to lose all their federal funding. \We were one of the first colleges to say no,\ says Hillsdale spokesman Joe Gillette, \not because we support sex discrimination, but because we felt the government had no right to ask us to sign the assurance of compliance when we haven't accepted a,penny of federal money in our 138-year history.\ But the government originally ar.gued that Hillsdale does use federal money every time one of its students borrows or gets a grant from a federal student aid program. Hillsdale, in turn, says the . government should apply the rule only to the program that accepts the money- the student aid office, and· not the whole college. In December, a federal cir- cuit· court agreed. Tbe court said only the programs that specifically get federal funding have to sign assurances of compliance with Title IX. Though it's only one decision, Its potent conservative sym- bolism, and the Reagan ad- ministration's refusal to appeal, the Hillsdale decision is con- sidered a bad omen by those who want to use Title IX to open doors previously locked to campus women. Kohn of the National Women's Law Center also disapproves of the ad- ministration's refusal to appeal a 1982 court decision that the University of Richmond's athletic department was exempt from Title IX because it didn't directly receive any federal money. U.S. Department of Education spokesman Duncan Helmrich explains the govern- ment won't appeal because \we agreed with Hillsdale in part, and with the court's final decision, in part.\ Education Secretary Terrel Bell announced after the Hillsdale ruling that, from now on, the administration would apply Title IX only to specific programs that get federal money. Helmrich, however, believes Title lX may have gained new power from another recent court ruling that Title IX ap- plies equally to all of Gove City College's programs, not just the ones directly funded by Washington. \What we need is a Supreme Court rullilg on whether or not federal funding of any ldnd makes the entire institution or only the specific program funded subject to Title IX compliance,\ Sandler says. The \fractional coverage\ Sandler ·foresees is bound to leave some officials up in. the air when it comes to investing in more sports facilities for women. \In the past, some (presidential) administrations interpreted (Title IX) quite leniently, while right now we're Con~ued on page 13 SPECIAL ENGiNEERING INCENTIVE FOR MATH/SCIENCE DEGREE CAilDIDATES The A-Vt Fo!tee iA .taolurtg 6ull a ·&w c.oUe.ge.. gll.a.du.at:eJ.> and ne..a!l.-eoUe.ge. g~tadua.tM-- .to ~end ba.c.k. ;to college .to eaJL.n a .6e.cond Bache.tofL '-6 Veg!r.e..e.. in Ae..nonau;tLcal~ MtJwna.utic.aR.., Avw- ~pac.e, and Eiec.:tJU.eal. Engitteetu'.ng. AppileaJ~It6 .6'c!£.ec.ted fioJi .tlt-i.~ e~g-itte:e}t( vtg ,inc e n.t.i vc ptw~J •wm wif .f a.Ue..nd a 12 -wee.l~ 06 6.icell Ttra.i.ninq Schoo£ -tn San Antonio, TX. Oe.gnee.. will be c. om pie-ted a:t eA tft r 1z the Ai.Jr.. Follee Ivt-6-ti.tu;te.. ofi Tecluw-CufjtJ, Vatj:ton, OH; oJt a.t a V:v.LL{cot tm.<ve..Jr.- .6ay dwving an 78-mim.th petcA.od. Fo!t motte. ..<.n6oJtmw.un cord.aet: MSgt. Paul Kalinowski at (518) 472-4484 A great way of life.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, February 10; 1983 Fountkd ot Union Cflflege 1877 ~---------- ----------- 1 out of 10 The educational conference held to promote awareness of collegiate alcohol abuse was a qualified success. The organizers of the event did a fine job and should be encouraged to bllow up with similar programs. The problem of student alcohol abuse is certainly r~al at Union. It is mind-boggling to thi.Ji,k that one out of every ten College students is an alcoholic. The Administration recognizes tl'te implications of such figures and must take acti()n to check this growing trend. The keynote speaker of the conference found that the student alcohol abuser does not fit the stereotypical 'down and out; m.old. Abusers are, in fact, \everyday students who use alcohol as a social ~timulus. '' How many of your acquaintances does this bring to mind? The College has already etnbraced many of :Ms. SUlzberger's suggestions and must stick to its guns. Provisions in the present policy calling for alternaUye beverages and available food must be enforced, be it a College-sponsored activity or a fraternity party. Only strict enforcement will bring about a change in attitude and the breakdown of stereotypes. This hard-line stance must be coupled with a soft touch- .. the education and counseling of the student. bo(ly. At the least, materials should be circulated attacking misconceptions and providing information. Only a select few were able to attend Friday's conference. Ooncordi~nsis will be more than happy to do our share in this campaign. . The \peer assistance group'' approach to counseling appears promising. We encourage the Administration to look into the f~asibility of such a program. The burden of treatment should not sit solely on the shoulders of the Resident Advisors. The Co~lege must s~t the example for t~e entire . community. We look forward to the newly founded Cafe and will be waiting with baited breath for food, be it chips at the bar, av~ilable in the Pub. No Shows The Student Forum has graciously provided funds to subsidize a bus trip to HamUton College this Saturday to root for our basketball Dutchmen. The 14-2 team is present!~ ranked third in the State in Division III. ·The Hamilton Continentals are leading the Division and will prove to be worthy adversaries. At a cost of one dollar.. the bus · trip is an unmatched bargain. Perhaps we are being nostalgic: but whatever happened to college spirit, fight songs and the throngs of- wildly cheering college fans? Has professionalism in school strangled our enthusiasm? Our fan-less situation was even observed by the Knickerbocker. News who, in prin,t, won4ered where the crowds were as our team climbed to the top. The College's spectator shortage is not limited to · just athletic events. Lectures, fUms and public discussions arEf sparsely attended. It appears t~at the typical College student has neither the time nor the inclination to leave his ()r her books .. The drive for that illusive '4.00' is strangling the concept of total education. Book knowledge should be the least taken away for your College experience. 'This narrowness · of scope is understandable considering the state of our professions and the econ()my, . but must it be tolerated? One argument for the switch to 'a seme$ter system is that it would provide increased opportunity· for students to participate in extracurricular programs. Is it the academic structure ·of the College ()r an attitude of the students that causes no-shows? · We do not know the answer to this question and offer no solution to the larger problem at-hand. We are simply observing a phenomenop. and calling attent~on to its Significance- Intelligent Commentaries are welcomed by Concordiensis Call 370-5155 · LETTERS Point Clarified To the Editor: I would like to take this op- portwlity to clarj,fy a point which may. have been misconstmed in my letter of last week concerning sexual harassment. To begin with, I did not mean to imply that calling Campus Security in reaction to the alleged sexual inCident would in itself .have been an exercise in futility. I am. not in the position· to criticiZe the fru~ction Security ' . serves on thi$ campus or the atn human ' and, . as such., extent to which it fulfills this · fallable. I have at let:~st made ·function. Obviously, calling the first attempt in coon- Security .immediately would teracting such atrocious events have been the correct action to by speaking out. Security is take, but I was· indeed'-' presently conducting an in- momentarily· paralyzed. 'l'he vestigation into the incident, situation was so sudden and and hopefully, with a allen to me that it was difficult, heightened awareness of the · at that moment, to ascertain the existence of sexual harassment,. · \correctness'' of anything. I we can all work to create a safer have been criticized for not conununity here .for all who, having acted, but I believe the inhabit it. realization must be made that l Sincerely, Karen Paul Actio·ns Not Words · To the Editor: states· how very little she ,-ac- tua:lly did about the possible sexual and mental abuse of a This letter is in regard to last week's letter entitled ''Con• cerning Sexual Harassment\ which dealt wj,th the possibility that a woman was raped at a · fraternity party. My first reaction to the letter was one of saddened resignation to the fact that we have many people on our campus who feel that acting in an abusive, animalistic fashion is acceptable in our community. My second reaction was one of anger at the anther's behavior. -woman · behind a · lo.cked, guarded d()Qr at a Jraternity party. vandalism, and verbal a~d · physical abuse would be stopped. There is no 'spmeone else' to call in these Wlfortunate events. · · · I realize that many people do . not feel capable of appearing before Conduct Committee and testify!Jt~ against some~n~ who has vmlated another's rights, but unless we are willing to act, we are silently condoning what is quite often considered to be criminal behavior in the 'real· Ms. Paul said that \as chairperson of Women's Net- work, I am outraged and disgusted\ by the attitudes towards women in our society. As a hliman being, sl;le should b~e disturbed by these feelings. As a human being, she should also take so~e action against these incidents as she happens across them. Later ill her letter, she Scholarly Pursuit To the Editor: After reading a letter by Mike Farber which appeared in last week's Coneordiensls, we wish to respond to his criticisms on the goals of education at Union. Although the purpose of his statement is to. discuss the . student activity fee, it is not our intention to dwell on this-... matter. Mr. Farber 'Writes that his involvement in extracurricular activities is of \far greater importance and relevance;; for · later life than is. the other \education\ that he has received at Union. He asks if we • . have retained any of the ''facts and theorie.s\ which we have · learned ·doting our course of study. His- <>wn response is \no\. Finally, he .characterizes • Union academics as a \never ending array of comparatively worthless courses and professional insouciance.\ The purpose of University education is to . cultivate the intellectual potential. In par- ticular, Union's primary · commitment lies in- the development of analytical, critical, and creative skills. We can only wonder if Mr. Farber • \has · overlooked these ob- jectives. · , . Sincer~ly, David Cohen IvanGjaja Happy J1 alentines Day Karen, I admire the fact that you and your friend went up-' stairs to . investigate, but if you were truly concerned about the woman's safety, you would have gone to Campus Security and reported the incident. Saying \I wish I too had, said someth'mg to the 'guards' of the room,\ does nothing for the person inside that room. The reason' that calling Campus Security seems a \depressingly futile effort\ is. because most people have that attitude; one of ''what can I do, it's only one incident.\ If people on this campus would take the initiative to do something, besides bitch-and-moan after the fa~;:t, a lot of pointless world'. · · Karen,· the next time you are · witness to one' of these potential campus horror stories, take some acti~! Don't tell us wh;:lt we, the community, strouldhave done, be-assertive and help that person~ Your example may be enough to .give someone else the .courage to .stop a dangerous situation in the future. Sincerely, Jim Carroll ·Letters to the Editor must be submitted to Concordiensis by 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday Editors-in-chief A.J. Brodsky, Dianne PavaCic Managing Editor Julianne Abelman News Editors Marcy B~stiner, Doug Landon EditorialPageEditor D.C. Owens Features Editors . Nonnan Birnbach. Donna Getson Arts Editors Glenn Krutoff, Roberta Rubinstein Campus Page Editqr .. _ Cindy J. Tenner Associate Campus Page Editor Jill :a. Kaufman 1 Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rick Sapir Layout Advisor P~ter Mohr Subscription Editor Gregg Shack Photo Editor Patricia E. Sacks Associate Photo Editor Mary Phillips Sports Photo Editor Robert Tang Political Cartoonist David Neiblum Staff Debbie Albert, Mike AnZenberger, Jan Baran, Jay B_arpch, Patty Callahan, Scott Collins, Michael Devito, Kathy Duffy, Lori Favata, _.David Fitzgerald, ;Mary Ann Gagliardi, Cathy Gifford, Emily Haft, Lynn Hano, Kathy Keveaney, TedKendris, Susan Kone, Tom Miller, David Murray, Matt Nankin, Michelle Novelle, Joan O'Connor, Jennifer-Paston, Nancy Pettinella, SteffiPropos, Gayle Rosenfeld, · Amy Schacht-er, Franklin Schnm_der, Judie Steinhardt, Bob Van VorisJ Pet'er W eishart, Sherry Weitzen, Scott Wykoff, Dave Zuckerberg fhoto Staff ;Peter Clouse, Brian Bils~ck, Daphne Chigas, . ~ R\lSsFein, Jon Heimer, Paul Klein, Chris [acy, Slisan Mettler; Sue Serenska, Gregg Shack - CONCORDmNSIS is publlshedt every Thursda)' by the student. body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Sehenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna .Publications, Inc., Box 388, .Sidney; New York 1~ ... (~) 6fj3-.7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office 11& ~~ class matter. Subscripti9n t.ate: 35 cents p~ copy' $12 pet :Year' delivered anywhere in the United States. . . . ' CONCORDIENSJS sul>scrib,es to the ,.College Press . Service (CPS), and utilizes .the College News Bureau (CNB). ' Offic~ Telephone • 370;6155

RS. - sucn, made coun- ~vents ity is il in- ident; 1 a f the ment, safer who· ~rely, Paul . and 1 be neone unate . ' >le do. aring e and e who ights, o act, . what to be 'real· u are· ential take what have >that :~y be ;ethe erous ~rely, the OONOORDlEN8lS~ February 10, 1983 Page 11 iiii . ;. Support y·our ·Team· - To the Editor: suppose y:ou went to a school where there was a team that was ranked tllird in the state in. their Division., was .given honorable :mention for the_past five weeks in the NCAA national poll, and ~at th~ team that ~as ranked third m the nation. Would you .go to .see them.? I am about to divulge the ·best ~ept secret at Union College - our . basketball team. I know what you're thinking, \You can't tell this girl anything!\ Well, I just thought it was . about time everyone knew abo9t tnem. I am sure nobody knows about the team because nobody goes to the games. If people knew about them there would never be an empty seat at the field hoilse while they .were playing. Who would miss a game with a team that has a 14-2 record? For a while I ·thought the.bas~etbaU must be a Sigma Chi. fraterrrlty · s~et because they make up . about fifty percent of the crowd · and· one hundred percent of the spirit. If you don't want to go to a game because you don't Q:e . basketball, then go to see these guys because · they ·are hysterical! There are eleven guys who are~ wol!king hard. to . represent our tealll on the court, andthey are doing a good job. It . is· about time everyone goes to the field house to support them. - It ·js not like I am asking you to take a test-I :am asking you to · have a good time. A Fan Scholarship AWarded To the Editor: The first annual Tri-Delta scholarship has been awarded to Shari Midoneck. The $500 will be used towards spl'lng · term tuition. As a sophomore matriculate in the pre-medical curriculum, with a 3.78 cum, as well as many extracurricular activities, Snari was most qualified for the award. The selection was not a silnple one using academics, ex- tracurricular activities, promise of valuable services in their field, and having financial need as criteria. The . selection committee consisted of Bobf4assa,Director · of Financial ,Aid; Ilene Kaplan, Dean of Faculty; ~ane Wood, Assistant Dean of Students;. Andy Warde,, Chairman of Modern Languages; Marlene Shriber, President of Beta Psi; and Rita Lindenberg, Chair of Beta Psi Community Services. Special thanks to all ap- plicants and the committee. Again, congratulations Shari! Thankyout · The Sisters of Delta Delta Deltli PARENTS WEEKEND May 6, 7, 8 Make yo,ur plans now! ---··--- . I . . . . .. . 1 COMMENTARIES News From. The Capital - Qy JACK ANDERSON and JOE SPEAR· the Justice Department's c:dmirial division for study. The . investigation has just ended, WASHINGTON- Many and we've learned that the conserv(ltlves are llilhappy with government is letting NCPAC Ronald Reagan,. Tl).ey :feel their oft the hook on the grounds that onetlnle idol.has feet of clay. the organization's letter was a Not all conservatives have one-shot deal that hasn't been lost faith in the . president, repeated. however. One who still thinks DEAF EAR: The Justice Reaganls fine is Nelson Bunker Department. is investigating Hunt, the freewheeling Texas aJlegations that Sen. Strom oil millionaire. Thurmond, R..S.C., accepted at Htmtre'Centlylenthis nameto least $20,000 in bribes_ from a six~page fundl'aising letter renegade ex-CIA agent EdWin being sent out by the National P. Wilson. Cons.ervative Political Action Wilson was recently con• Committee (NCP AC). victed of illegally selling It's' a long letter, In which weapons to Libyan dictator Hunt gives. lavish praise ,to Muarnmar . Qaddafi. Sen. President R~agan - and, of Thurmond has vehemently course, to NCPAC. The letter is denied the allegations . an invitation to become a We can now relate a curious member of NCPAC's official circumstance involving the advisory c.onunittee. allegations against Thurmond. A s-eat on·the advisory board • . At one point, the House costs $5,000. Membership will Intelligence Committee staff be limited to 300. Thatts ex:- was told that there was a shady elusive enough, but Hunt's connection between Wilson and letter promises even more. the senator. But the committee Board members will receive a staff didn't pursue the matter .. gold lapel pin which \will be Our associate Dale VanAtta recognized by conservative obtained the secret transcript of a d m i n i s t r a t i o n a n d a long interview with a former congressional leaders.\ Then, Wilson associate by the on Feb. 22, the NCPAC board Intelligence Committee staff. will have what Hunt calls a The witness had previously told \private reception\ with the them of the alle_ged .payoff to president at the White . House. Sen. Thurn'lond. He, also dangles the promise Qf Leon Fuerth, the staff other \private\ meetings with director, said to the witness: members of the Cabinet. ''On two .occasions you ex- A spokesman · for Nebon pressed some concern about a Bunker Hunt said the Te~as member of the Senate. What is millionaire. has been an· active the connection between that and supporter of NCPAC ever since Wilson's activities?\ it was founded, He has a good The witness was confused. reason''to be~ - . Was. Fuerth talking about the Two years ago, NCPAC was middleman he said had accused of improper lobbying delivered the bribe? on Capitol Hill. It wasn't Fuerth: \No. I am talking registered as a lobbying group, about a member of the Senate.'' but it sent letters to · se~ral Witness: \Well I don't know congressmen urging them to-- whether .I should. really go into block efforts to tighten up a tax that part of it, 1lecause this is loophole used by silver traders, opening- that would be opening including Hunt. a can of wor~ that I have not The case was turned over to read about in the papers.\ The witness then alluded to the middleman, who had claimed to be acting for Wilson. He named the place the bribe had allegedly occurred:. the Capitol Hill Club. He gave other details, then stopped short and said: \I probably have already saiiJ. too much to you.\ The committee staff ap~ parently agreed with , the wit- ness. He was asked no more questions about Thurmond. In fact, they assured the witness they weren't interested in the bribery allegations at all. They told hftn they were looking into an entirely different matter. EXECUTIVE MEMO: State Department sources say their auditors recently caught a contractor who billed Uncle Sam for goods that were never delivered. The contractor was supposed to ship more than $70,000 worth of produce to Latin America. Less than a tenth of that amount'was ever delivered. -Employees at the General Services Administration are thoroughly confused over or- ders to double up their offices to save space. Cutbacks and layoffs at the agency have left it with more space than officials know what to do with. Our sources say that some 500t000 square feet at various GSA buildings are vacant. The agency has not been able to sublet the extra room, so the unoccupied space is costing taxpayers millions of dollars a year. -National Aeronautics and Space Administration officials say they recently probed the vacation habits of one of their procurement directors. He attended a golf tournament in Florida and stayed at a fancy hotel, all at the expense of a contractor who was selling goods to NASA. The offending director was demoted and fined $5,000. --..~ )I c( \ \{ / -....:::;- ==---- \Y --- ~!1' '. ...... -IU3~

' 1: 'i ' ' Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS, February 10, 1983 THE ARTS - . . ·\' ~ THE CULTURAL HORIZON January has come and gone, 8. and so has half of Winter Tenn. S<>rae prior experience is Let's all be thankful for that. A necessary in either the per- new month brings new items on. forming or the technical aspects ':HE CULTURAL HORIZON. of a production. Acceptance in . . . .. . . • the pr-ogram is by application : ~4~.·· ..... , :;.:':·'.·e' . . , . a~.~~ ;iilteniew ... audition .. Acting, :'lll,~:(f ··. . . · smgmg, and dancing auditions ·. · , . , .·· · · are sCJheduled for March 16 Surtuner Theatre Auditions from 7:00 • 11:00 p.m. and . . . . . Marett 2Q f~om .12:00- 4:00p.m. The Emptre S~ate Institute Fo,r .appllcatlons and ap- for the Performmg Arts an- potllt,rnents contact Vivian nounces a unique opportunity Oxfor.d at 474-1199, or write for high school and college ESIPA, Empire State Plaza students in theatre training, Albany, NY, 12223. ' production and perfonnance this summer. The Straw Hat program, open to students from lOth grade through un- dergraduate college level, provides an intensive learning experience for those students who have already demonstrated interest and ability in either stage performance or the technical aspects of theatre. The Straw Hat, which will run from July ..,5: through August 8 this summer, includes classes in the performing arts in ad· dition to .rehearsals for the. fully staged production of -the Rodgers and Hart musical \Babes in Arms,\ with public performances on August 7 and Poet Linda Gregg P()et Linda Gregg will give a talk and read fr()m her work at Uni()n College on February 25, 1983. Linlla Gregg is the author of To., Bl'lght To See (Graywolf Press, 1982). Her poems ·have appeared in The American Poe1ly Anthology and in The Ardis Anthology of American Poetry, as well as in Tbe New Yorker, Ironwood, and other journals. She teaches at Hampshire College. Linda Gregg will talk on contemporary poetry at 3:30 o.m. and will read from her j>Qems at 8:30; both the talk and the reading will be in the second floor lounge of the Humanities Center. Admission is free and the public is invit¢d. This is the second in a series of readings sponsored by the IDOL. and the English Depart-. ment of Union College. Also watch for the Gospel Choir at Memorial Chapel on Sunc,lay, February 13, and the Men's Glee Club Concert on Saturday, February 19. Hope to see you there. · · WMHT Limerick Contest . Attention all would-be poets! WMHT is hav,ing a limerick contest to promote Festival '83, its major awareness and fund raising drive schedUled for March. All entrants must use the first two lines provided by WMHT: SEE HOW GREAT 'IV CAN BE BY WATCHING FESTIVAL '83 The additional three lines should follow the standard limerick rhyme scheme, aal:)ba. At least two limericks will be read on-air. each night of the ·drive (March 5 - 20) with the grand prize winner, selected EE and Computer Science graduates Answer y:es and you owe yourself an interv1ew with NORDEN . Wednesday, Feb. 23 - . Are you excited by tl1e idea of becoming .part of a develop- ment team,probing outer reaches of military electronics technologies- far .beyond the scope of commercial efforts? 0 YES ' I Do you want to create state-of-the-art military hardware and software for land, sea. and air ... like a U.S. Marines master battle.field C 3 system; a U.S. Army Battery Computer System for pinpointing artillery fire; the B-52 radar update; a U.S. Navy surface surveillance radar; minicomputers and periph- erals hardened upfor militarized environments? 0 YES Do you want to join a company that is backed up by United Technologies' research effort of better than $2,000,000 per day? DYES If you answeredyes, you definitely o\!e jt to yourse.lf ~o arrange, through y()ur Placement Office, to meet With one of our representatives while they are on campus on the above date. If you are unable to see us that day, write to Manager, CollegeHecruitiTlent, Norden Systems, Inc., 326Norden Place, P.O. BoxS3(JO, Norwalk, CT 06856. U,NITED TECHNOLOGIES NORDEN ·sYSTEMS An equal opportunity employer from those read on the air, awarded on the final night. The grand prize winner will receive an RCA 9\ color television set. Nightly winners will · each receive a set of WMHT mugs. Area JDedla personnel wi:ll serve as judges~ Entries should be subnutted on postcards and sent to \Limerick Contest\ WMHT ' . ' ._ ' . ' Box 17, Schenectady, N.Y. 12301. AU entries must oo postmarked by February 25. big time' for Mark Rabin.\ The performance starts at 8:30 in the Cabaret Room. Tick~ts are on sale for $1;50. So 1 come over and warm yourself with hot cocoa and fine music. Arts Dept. Events .1111 ifil. Professor. Francois Gabriel of the School of Architecture at Syracuse Univetsity will give a Jaffe Lecture in Arts Buildlng room 202 at 4:00 p.m. on Thursday, February 17. The title of his lecture is \Metamorphic Architecture.\ Professor Gabriel is a graduate of ECOI$ DES BEAUX ARTS, ARCWTEC'l'URE in Paris, the first school of architecture in the world. He won numerous medals among them for the History of Architecture and five for Architectural Design. Come In From the Cold With the wind whirling and the snow blowing what's a more enjoyable way to ' spend an- evening than drinking hot cocoa and listening to good music with your friends. This Friday, February 11, you can do j~t that. Coffeehouse is offering you an evening of warm drinks, fresh doughnuts, and fine music. Mark Rabin, a local musician who, in the past, has appeared at Union College as a member of the duo Moth and Star, will he the performer at Friday's coffeehouse. Singer• Songwriter Mark Rabin is preparing his first album, WHAT I DO. Says David Allan of Metroland, \When WHAT I DO is released, it's 'Hello,. the And at: ·MAN OF LA MANCHA Timothy Nolan stars in this. revival of Lake George Opera Festival's \stunning'' production. February 18, 22, 24, and 25 at 8 p.m. and February 20 and 21 at 2 p.m. Tickets $18, $14.50, $10.50. ·At The Egg- ALBANY -Choreographer- dancer Paul Sanasardo will give a master class in modem dance in the Main Theatre Qf the Egg on Thursday, February 24, 1983, at 4:00 p.m. Mr. Sanasardo, called \ a dance poet of angst and drama\ (New York Times), has created and premiered more than sixty ballets for his, own company and for many other dance com- panies arollnd the world. He and hisJ,!ompany will return to give a performance at the Egg on February 25. Space in the master class will be limited to 40 dancers, whose (....&..WE DELIVER-- . \It. 374-1888 Professor Gabriel is both an architect and an architectural historian. Hi$ special interest in in light-weight structural systems; and modular struc- tures. He has published widely in Europe and America. He has worked and taught in Franc.e, California, M.l. T ., before becoming a full professor at Syracuse in 1977. ' CHILDREN OF A LESSER GOD This Tony award winner is a moving, sensitive love story that examines what happens when a deaf woman and a hearing man fall in love and try to build a life together. Satur- day, February 26, at 8 p.m. Tickets $15, $12, $10. \ ability should be of in· termediate to advanced level. To reserve a place in the master class, a check for $5.00 must be received by the box. ofilce no· later than February 20. Places will be allotted as checks are received and no places will be reserved without payment. Payment may be made in person or checks may be sent to ESIPA box office, Empire State Plaza, Albany, New York, 12223. For further information, contact the Egg box office at (518) 473-3750. 464 State Sf. Schen~tady, NY . /

n.\ The 8:30 in ~ets are ne over ·ith hot lbrielof :tute at 1 give a 3Uildin ... g .m. on l7. The tre is ~cture.\ raduate :;ARTS, 1ris, the :ture in IIIlerous for the and five n. both an tectural ;erest in uctural · struc- ! widely He has France, before ssor at is a story and a and try Satur- 8 p.m. in· level. be no· are be in to at OONOORD.IENSIS, February :tO~ 1983 Page 13 \ fn Re.view- Creafive Critters By EMILY HAFr Staff ' From January .28 to February 5, the Egg Theat~e in Albany presented a creattve and most enchanting production of Kenneth Qrahame's Wind In Tbe Willows. . The story originally published in 1907 was intended as a tame but effectiv~ satire on the English aristocracy but is now considered a classic of children's literature. The musical was remarkable in many ways. The most out- standing feature was behind the scenes. Its director, Edmund Waterstreet of Wisconsin, is deaf. With the.. use of a. hearing aid, he is able to perceive thyth: m and tempo but no words. By selecting · a choreographer, Diane Parker, who was capable of making the music visible to him and employing the skills of Candace Sroecker to interpret and assist him, the director created an animated and en- tertaining production. The characters, aU of whom are animals., are the inhabitants of a small glen complete with a dark and terrifying wood, a mansion where Mr. Toad resides, a mole, a rat, a badger and other assorted creatures. They are .all engrossed in the arduous task of preventing Mr. Toad from destr(ly'ing their tiny society with his new motorcar. As the story dev~lops, the characters begin t.Q develop perscmaliUes. Mr. Badger appears as the wise and logical consultant, · Mr. M()le the neurotic and sensitive worrier, and Mr. Toad the wealthy and jovial racing enthusiast. By cleverly costuming, each character with most convincing outfits. and even more con- vincing prosthetics, or latex facial pieces, created by a pro.cess called slush molding, the animals come alive and undoubtedly enchanted their audiences. The scenery most con- vincingly· simulated forest habitats underground, in the wood and. in the water. Each was cleverly done in wood tones and was most convincing. The music was performed well and each song was more and moe entertaining. The lyrics were clever and hUiilorous and a few double entendres were provided (or the adult audience's pleasure. The music was definitely a successful production. In a society where children's en- tertainment is either reruns ·Of fantasy movies or lacking in educational and creative value, The Wind in The Willows provides pleasurable, cr~ative . and huinorous entertainment in an artistically pleasing and professional atm,ospbere. -Poetry As the years unwind before my eyes And my thQughts tush (}n-like passing days I ~each out to trY and grasp a floating memory. A jug of wine once passed around a fire , And the feeling of cold beer pouting down my,throat .. The loud laughter of a foggy party · And the soothing night-time sand on the soles of sun~burned feet. Brothers leaving for college . . . . Qoming home on mid-night planes. And you? You will. soon'be a memory too. Memories-r.eaching for them- / · Holding them for a moment- - And then putting them away For quiet nights ~d lonely days. Title. IX • .• . ' Continued from page 9 seeing a restrictive regulation,\ Berkey. very narrow, view of the says the NCM's But she-hopes that \no matter what happens to it in the courts,\ sex bias is passing from campus. . · years of Title IX have made administrators aware and committed to eliminating sex discrimination. And that's all it really takes: a, strong, com- mitted administration willing to bite the bullet and equalize education for its students.\ \If notl!ing else, the last 10 .}( The Dutch Hollow Pub 1(. · Dutch Hollow Pub will be open for Four seotings · on ~rdaY night for Dutchman's Night. The seatings wil be 4:30, 5:00, 6:30 ond 7:30 p.m. ' Reservcrtions for Saturday Nights will lie 1aken on Wednesday and Friday aftemoons between the hours of 1 onc1 4:30 at the ticket 'boom , Cllmegie HDII. RESERvATIONS ARE REQUIRED TO pARTICIPATE! Dutcbman's Night is available to 19-me(ll plan holders twice a .mohth, and .to 14 and 1()-mital plun holden once a moll1ft. Don•t F'orget!!! Make reservations You don't have to feel ·left out If · . early, bring your meal card andl.iJ, you're not on a meal plan. We'll and prepare ·to enjoy yourseif! II . gladly accept. cash te5er.vatlons too. 1 \ THE ARTS eth Grahame's Artist, Malcolm Grear For twenty-two years, Malcolm Grear has played a vital role in the field of graphic design as both educator and artist. He has taught in the Rhode Island School of Design's Graphic Design Department since 1960, serving as its chairman from 1965 through 1969, before being promoted to Full Professor in 1980.- For his work in graphic design, Malcohn Grear has received many awards from national and international organizations including, the American Institute of Graphic Arts, the International Center of Typographic Arts in Canada, the Art Society of N.orth America, as well as the Rhode Island. Governor's Award for Exc~llence- in the Arts~. He has ' lectured throughout the country at nwnerous universities and organizations and has been an active member of leading state and national arts councils. Throughout his career, Malcohn Grear has extended his professional activities to the · cultural life of th~ community. Among his many design con~ tributions are those which he has done for the Providence Preservation Society, the Boston Ballet, the Houston Ballet Foundation, the Rhode Island State Council on the Arts, and the Trinity .Square Repertory Company, Providence. He also designed the 15 cent Commemorative Stamp, in honor of the Veterans' Administration's 50th an- niversary, for the U.S. Postal Service (issued in July of 1980), and the seal for the Department of Health and Human Services, which was unveiled in May of 1980. Malcolm Grear's work has been published in numerous magazines and journals such as the Book of American Trademarks, Volumes I and II; Signs..Signet-8ymbol; Graphis Zurich; International Trademarks; Communication by Design; Typomundus 20; Architectural Signing and Graphics ;and Print Case books. His :work has been included in such exhibitions as the Biennale UNION COLLEGE of / Graphic Design, Dzechoslovakia; Color, the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York; Ephemeral Images: Recent American Posters, the Cooper-Hewitt Musewn, Washington, DC; and ' Communication by Design (Four-Man Show), Institute of Contemporary Arts, Boston. Malcolm Grear received his degree from the Art Academy of Cincinnati. He is listed in Who's Who in American Art and The International Biographical Center, and recently completed docmnenting his work for the Smithsonian Institute's Archives of American Art. Mr. Grear founded Malcohn Grear Designers and has served as its President since 1963. Mr. Grear is Jaffe artist in residence in the Arts Depart- ment of Union College February 15 and 16. On the 16th he will give a slide presentation about his work at 3:30p.m. in AB 202, to be followed by a reception at the opening of an exhibition held in the temporary Kruesi Galleries at 4:30. Department of Biology Biology Club Department Seminar Tuesday, February 15, 1983 - ·,; 4:30p.m. - S.S. 016 BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF THE TESTICULAR FOLLITROPIN SYSTEM DR. LEO E. REICHERT, PROFESSOR AND CHAIRMAN D~PARTMENT OF BIOCHEMISTRY, ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE Refreshments at 4:00 p.m. :ENGINEERS- GO F·ULL SPEED AH AT ELECTRIC BOAT! Electric Boat is the world's foremost designer and builder of nuclear submarines- one of the great engineering challenges ofthis century. With a $3 billion backlog and long-term contracts, ;=r Electric Boat offers career opportu.nities in nearly _-- . .,... 0 ·~ every engineering discipline (including electrical, mechanical, civil, etc.},. top pay and benefits, long-range stability and an unmatched lifestyle on the southern New England seacoast. US C•llzenship required- an EquarOpportunoty Emplo~er.M&F. HC GE·NEFIAL DYNAMICS Electric Boat Division The Best Shipbuildir:lg Teamin America Groton, CT 06340 Electric BoatDiv·ision will be intet·viewing on campus on February 1:7, 1983. Please contact the Placement Office for time and place. -o::.. .•. ~.

Page 14 OONOOBDIENSIS~ February 10, 1983. CAMPUS NEW.S INTERNSHIPS ·For information on lnteru- ahlps, contact the Career Center. New York City Urban Fellow!! Program-College senior~. recent graduates, and graduate students-highly competitive program involvirlg work in New York City goverrunent full-time September-June. Fellows participate in seminars which focus on public sector fiscal and management. issues and which serve as an introduction to public administration theory. Stipend plus benefits. Deadline: March 15. New York City Management Intern Progra.m--College juniors, seniors, \ and recent graduates--work ··in - city government full-time mid-June·· until mid-August. Applicants must have pennanent home address il) one of the five boroughs. Stipend. Deadline: March 1. MetropolltaD Museum of Art- Swnmer internship for juniors and seniors. Work at Visotors Center, give toW's and gallery talks, participate in project. Must have strong background in Art History and an interest in the humanities and musewn education. Honorarium. Deadline: March 1. Wedtko Sommer Program-a service for emotionally disturbed children, is seeking applicants for swnmer em- ployment and practicum ex- perience. \ Devereaux Foundation Institute of CIJDJcal Trainlog and Research-undergraduates, graduating seniors, and recent graduates-full-time pre-pro- fessional mental health traineeships and short-term externships providing training and experience with mentany_ and emotionany handicapped children, youth, and young adults. Operation Crossroads Africa, Inc.-student volunteer work- study projects in Africa during the smnmer. Work involves community based development projects in construction, agriculture, anthropology, and medicine. Deadline: Feb. 15. Capl'tol Hill Improvement Corp.--not•for-profit . neighbo- rhood housing, planning, and design service. Past in~emships have focused on areas such as sociology, urban planning, historic prese.rvation, public administration, drafting. Historic Deerfield Sum~ner Fellowships in Early American Hastory and the Decorative Arts-open to undergraduates With two or more years of college who are interested in museum work, historic preservation and American cUlture. Deadline: February 15. Science Teacbimg 1Dte1118blp- Miss Porter's School, an in• dependent boarding and day school. Applicants must have undergraduate degree by June 1983 arid have strong backgroW\d in at least two of the following fields: chemistry, geology, biology, physics. Stipend, room and board ine eluded. Baltimore Museum of Art- summer internship for sophomores and jwtiors who are interested in a career in museum work. Deadline: March 15. The Gallatin Division of New York Vniversity is seeking applicants for the Qscar Dystel Graduate Fellowship in publishing. The two year master's fellowship is organized around a twelve- week internship at Bantam Books. Students interested in the fellowship should inquire and apply through the Gallatin Division, New York University, New York, NY 10003 (212) 598- 7077. Applications are now being accepted for the 1983 pre-career practicwn in mental health · offered for the 13th sununer by -·the New York HMpltal-Coroell Medical Center, Westchester Division. The eight-week program which begins June 13 is open to college students and combines structured, staff. supervised patient assignments with professionally conduCted seminars and lectures. · Interested applicants are asked to conta,ct Ann Eisner, Director, Volunteer Depart- ment, The New York Hospital- Little Vinnie's Pizzeria Free delivery for college ,_. \ 8w 12·24 Cut P1zzas Specia 1 price on party orders Just ask for Vinnie DEADLINE EXTENDED!. Applications for the Orientation CommiHee are , , Now Due February 14 •. . . . I Appl!catlons are available 1 at the Student Activities Booth Cornell Medical Center; Westchester Division, 21 Bloomingdale Road, White Plains, New York 10605, (914) 997)5780. ll!ll!!!!llll!ll!!lfl!!!l!l!!!!ll!!!!!!l!!!l!!!!l!i!!l!~-11111!11• · selves· -with the social ana CLASSJFJBDS ac~demic opportunities available for the academic year Each semester more than 250 students from colleges and universities .across the COWltry come to Washington, D.C. · to wor~ as interns· under the a~pices of the Wastungton Center. · The Internship Program, open to juniors and seniors in all academic majors,. includes: placement; ori.entation, counseUng,.supervislon, and evaluation of intern progress; academic seminars and group. diScussioru~ wjth other interns; g.uest lectures; social .and cultural events with other iri· terns; and centraily-located housing. The application deadline for the 1983 . Spring Quarter . Internship Program is -:January 15, 1983; for the 1983 Summer Tenn,. March 1, 1983; for the 1983 Fall Semester; April 15, 1983.-.For an application and more program information, contact your local campu$ liaison or write-call: ThE Internship Program, The Washington Center, 1705. DeSales Street,. N. W., Washington, D.C. 20036, 202-659- 8510 .. The French Embassy is of- fering study grants for ~udents with bachelor's degrees · who would like to study in a French engineering school. The gr~ts are available for 1983-84.- Proficiency requirements in French must be met. Applications must be field by March 1. They can be obtained by writing to: Mission Sci~n­ tifique del' Ambassade de France, 2011 I Street, NW, Suite 500, WllShington, D.C. 20006. The Cape Cod Sununer Job Bureau has coordinated a sw;nmer employment directory which includes a listing of summertime educational op- portwrlties. academic courses for college credit, as well as cultural Cia·sses--music, theatre, and the arts on Cape Cod, Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard. ·For a copy of the 1983 Directory send $2.00 to cover first class pOstage and handling to: Cape Cod Sununer Job Bureau, Box 594, Barnstable, MA 02630. Curling Rink hours for the Week of February 10-16. Thurs-Fri. 3.:30-5:30 Sat.-Sun. · · 3~ Mon. 3:30-5:30, 7·9 Tues. 3:3o-5:30 Wed. 3:30-5:30, 7~9 Therapeutic Touch Using your hands to help heal. Speaker: Judy Schultz, teacher and practitioner, Tues., Feb. 15, 7:30 .p;m . .Schenectady Public Ubrary. Sponsored by Human Potential Alternatives. Infor- mation-489-8860. · Room.for rent: 1621 Carrie St. Call 374-8940 ask for ¥ashar. Rent is $168 a month w-o utilities. Wanted: A place to live off , campus this spring. If you are in need of an apartment-mate, call Adam at 372..0172. STUDY ABROAD The annual meeting for all the Terms Abroad will take place on Thursday, Feb. 10 in SS016 at 4:30 p.m. At this meeting, students can .acquaint them- · .1~4. Students anc:l faculty who have been on the various terms will describe each of the programs . and answer questions. This is the only time all year when prospective students have a chance·to hear from former participants. about the programs; , The programs to be offered in the academic year 1983-84 will be as follows: fallterm, France, Italy, England; Winter tenn programs will take place in Athens, Greece, a kibbutz in Israel, and Seville, Spain. The spring term abroad will take place in Vienna, Austria. SU:NY Brockport has a new program in Tours, France, for beginners as well as advanced students of the French language. The program is located at L'lnstitut- de Touraine located in the Loire Valley at the heart of Chateau country. Any undergraduate may apply who has a cumulative ·index of 2.5 or higher. Th~ . program is presently offered during the fall semester only. Applications deadlines are approaching so for mere in~ formation call us at (716). 395- 2119 or write: The Office of International Education, The Center,. State University of New York,. Brockport, New York 14420. Union College students can study European gl}vernment in London, Paris and Bonn this summer through a new SUNY Brockport program. Plans for the course include interviews with members of Parliament and government officials,. visits ·to Parliament, and political party and interest group offices, etc., in each of those capital cities. RAPE IS AN ANCIENT WAR. ( . IT HAS THE POWER TO KILL, to destroy a woman's sense of self, her sexuality, her ability to tove. The Award Winning Film from Cannes, New York, Chicago an~ Denver Film Festivals

·\ . .' ·~ ana Jties cyear acuity arious 6f the 11swer ~time ~ctive J hear about 1redin l4 will ranee, term ace in utz in 1. The l take a new 2e, (or ranced 'rench 1m is t- de Loire ~ateati tduate as a t5 or m is ;be fall s are 1re in~ !l). 395~ :ice of 1, The of New York ts can 11ent in m this SUNY ms .for OONOQRDIENSIS, February 10, J98S Page 15 • · · ·· · · at3:30p.m. Eveningclas8esfor STUDY ABROAD girlsingradesGandup-begmat =========== 6:30 p.m. at the Schenectady Girls Club .. Starting the week of The students will depart from New York City on June 4 and return on .J.une 26. Total cost for transportation, meals, student- typ~ lodgings~. and. in~state tuition and fees IS estliilated at $1,4oo-$1,500. Enrollments will be limited to 20 students. The course may be taken on either an upper~vision or a lower~ division ~sis. Qualified ap- plicants will be admitted on a first-come, first-served basis. 1..;17-«J. Call Marjorie Reynolds (1-5 p.m.) 374-9800. Instructors are needed for the following classes: 'Calligraphy, Aerobics, Gymnastics, Weight Lifting, Leathercraft, Simple Crafts, Drama, Large Muscle Games. Cerarpics, Flower Making, Macrame, Knitting and Crocheting, Self Development-Assertiveness Training, Jewelry Making, LiqUid Embroidery. ' Further information and application fonns may be ob- The New . Yotk Hospital· tained from the Office of ·~-Cornell Medical Center,· International Educaticn, The \Westchester Division . Summer Center, State University ~~reer Volunteer Program College Brockport New York ts destgned to add to our staff a ' · · · ' group of. students who are 14420. serio!!SlY considering careers in FILMS This weekend, Feb.ll-13, Das Boot, 7:30 and 10:00,. SSOl~, $1. Tues., Feb. 15, Deathtrap, 7, 9 & 11, SS016, $1. . VOLUNTEERS Literacy Voluntee~s will begin a new tutor training program for thos~_ , who are interested in teaching reading to adults for whom English is a second language. The workshops will be held on March 3, 7, 10~ 21 and 24. There will also·be aworkS.hopto teach ·b · · .r~:~ in A dl as1c rea~.g\ .. P ... • , . . For more information contact Literacy Volunteers office, 153 Nott Terrace, Schenectady. For Information on Volun~ teerlng, coritact the Career Center. In$iructor: Work with 8 or 10 girls for 1 hour·encea week for 8 · wee~. Afternoon classes which include girls in grades K-6 begin the mental health f.ield; and who will through our Volunteer Department be exposed over an eig~ week. period .to the many disciplines of a mental hOspital. The eight week program conunenciilg in June will devote the first week· to orientating and training. During this time, the students will be given their assignments. In the past, assignments have_ included patient halls, Children's Ser- vice, Recreational Therapy, Physical Therapy, Music Therapy, Behavioral Research Lab, etc. !J.'he students' work schedule will be Monday · through Friday, usually.8 a.m.-4 p.m. For further information, please write Mrs. Ann W. Eisner, Director of Volunteers, The New York Hospital~Cornell Medical Center, Westchester Division, 21 l3loomingdale Rd., White .?lains. NY l0005. .Needed: ~ olun~eerwhose job wtll be: 1. LiStening to cassette tapes to determine sound quality. 2. Shelving books and s~elf reading. 3. Repairing ptcture frames, repairing headphones. 4. Keeping vocational file in order. 5. Keeping Young Adult collection · up to date. At Schenectady County Public Library Call Naomi Bristol, 382-3500. Typlog &: Clerlc.-1, entering materials into . computer. Telephone interviewers at Jewish Federation <>f Greater Schenectady. Call Bertha · Bennan, 393-1136. Needed: Friendly visitor. , Responsible for visiting a homebound senior citizen- ~t least one hour a week. Call Jody Weiner, 372-3395. Tues., 9-6; Thurs., 3-6. Persons interested in working with. developmentally disabl~d adults in .supervised community residences will . · view a slide presentatton and receive an orientation into the agency's programs and services. Living Resources Corporation of 44 Broadway is holding an Open House at their 834 Emmett Street, Schenectady Residence on Jan. 30, from 12 p.m.:-3 p.m. The American Cancer' Society of NYS Division, Inc., Schenectady County Unit, needs volunteers for fundraising- educational programs-office assistance-special projects- patient assistance and ·other various functions. For more · information call 377 ~2241 dr write to the Schenectady County Unit, 1596 Rugby Rd., Schenectady, NY 12308. HELP WANTED. Looking for student to do laundry for 5 or 6 college students. Flexible hours. Possibly 6:7 hours a week. 370~ 6662 ... - Could split job\ between several students to teach basic computers to potential com- puter. owners. Classes scheduled in advance. Several nights per week, possibly weekends. Must be able to use: Atari, Commodore VIC 20, Texas Instruments (Home Computers). Starting as soon as possible. Salary negotiable. Duane's Toyland, 372•1615 or 393~7330. THE UNION COLLEGE SPEAKERS FORUM ·· .' · and B.L.A.S. , · · \ present WILLIE TYLER America's Foremost- ve-ntriloquist TlCKETS: Carnegie Hall Box Offi·ce Union College $2.00 for Union College Stude11ts · · · and faculty With 10 $3.00 for the Public uWillie and Leste:r\ UNION COLLEG,E ME.MORIAL CHAPEl Friday, February 11th, 198,3 8:00.P.M. . ... . .·· . ·. . . . .. . CAMPUS NEWS Would like a student to print about 70 addresses in an ad- dress book. Carrie Zint, 404 Millard St., Schenectady, 393- 8089. Household help during morning hours for 2~ hours, 2 times· a week. $3.50~hr. Lakewood Ave., Schenectady, 377-6595. Babysitter f01· 6 month old twins--Friday mornings 10 a.m.- noon. Niskayuna Ave., 370-a069. Rosendale Elementary School· (Niskayuna) is looking for students to teach one day a week in .an afternoon enrich- ment program .. They would like (prefer) students in science related disciplines to teach courses like, \How do radios and TV's work?\ They are open to any ideal!! students may have. If interested call Terry Weiner, 370~004. . . I CLUB NEWS The Biology- Club will be having. a meeting today, Feb. 10, at 4:30 in Conf. Rm. A. The Biology Club trip will be leaving at 8:00 a.m. from behind Alumni Gym. Mountebanks · Metropolitan Nite Club Tues., Feb. 15, Cabaret Rm., 8 p.m., $1.00. The Union . Outing Club presents \SOLO\ the spec~ tacular award.wlnning film of one man's ramarkable and daring climb in the Tetons. Tues.,. Feb. 15, 7:30 p~m,., Strauss Lounge. All are welcome. Refreshments ser- ved. SCHOLARSHIPS The Golub Foundation (Price Chopper Supermarkets) is offering a Graduate School Scholarship to be awarded to an undergraduate who plans to attend graduate school. The graduate school must be in an ar-ea served by Price Chopper (list available at the Financial Aid Office). Based on scholastic ability. Applications available from: Scholarship ColJUil!~ee, Golub Foundation, PO Box !074~ .Schenectady, NY 12301. PERSONALS So, what direction is your's going? Mine's going West. No, wait a minute, r;it just went left. Whoops, now it s going straight for 3 blocks,. then right for 2, next a U~turn and left at the next corner. I think it's slightly mixed up. Dialed an Atheist lately??? Peabody, if you knew as much as you think you did, you wouldn't have to study so damn much! But don't worry, we don't miss you. -The other two- thirds of the Eros But, Kleinie . • . you know I only love you for your chicken wok ... G-9, The question is: What exactly is a, baby kontikki bird? GABRIELLE: Seem to have. misplaced your postcard from Munich. My small goods miss you, Diva! With loads of Frusen Gladje love from N.Y., Mitchell Herby and Bellzy, Happy Valentine's Day to my two favorite animals. All of my love, Mong 10-0, It's good to have you back where you belong. Happy V .D. and my love always, Lisa D. Scruff;...The \city\ and your relatives are unique and fan- tastic! You truly are the sweetest. Je t'aime. Bearly TO the Big Brick House: · Happy V.D.I Delta love, Pisserly Shelly Belly: Yes Union! This is the new name bestowed upn Michelle Giroux by her loved ones. Happy V .D. Julie R.: I'll never tell anyone about our rendezvous last weekend. Boy, it was one hell of a weekend. Happy V.D. -Me Sue Skater: What a good time we'll have this weekend. Don't tell Julie; I've ~aved myself for' you. V .D. -Me CAMPUS ~~--- AROUND THE WORLD: 1983 (Sept. 14-Dec. 23) Seattle • Kobe, Japan • Pusan, Korea • Keelung, Taiwan • Hong Kong • Jakarta, Indonesia • Colombo, Sri Lanka • Boml>ay, India • Haifa, Israel or Istanbul, Turkey • Alexandria, Egypt • Piraeus, Greece • Cadiz, Spain • Ft. Lauderdale, Florida Sponsored by the of Pittsbllrgh. Semester at Sea offers students a superi<>r full semester program and supporting field experiences. This one semester ex 1 perlence is available io qualified students from all accredited c<>lleges and unlver· sties. More than 60 voyage related university courses. Faculty drawn from tlw ·university of . Pittsburgh and other lending universities, augmented by visiting area experts .. Ot•lionaJ.tours, Including special tours into the People's Republic of China. availabiP. Semester at Sea admltn students without .regard to color, race or creed. The S.S. Universe Is fully alr·conditioned, 18,000 Ions, registered In Liberia and built In Atnerlca. a free. color broc.. hure, write: Semester at Sea, UCIS, University of Plttaburgh. Forks Q·~~,~~..!'lH!e. •. Piltsburgb, J>A 15~60, or call toll free (800) 854.0195 (In California call

I •: Page 16 JOl:lOORDIENSIS, February 10, 1983 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS Cont. I love you Cindy N•joy-me TeiUler. KAREN-Hope you have a good time celebrating the 21st step toward the . over-the--hill gang. It's good to have company up here on_ top of the hill! HAPPY BIE.THDAY!! VIV- Thanks for being such a good \roomie\ even if it .is across the courtyard! - JD LA-Have fun in your new room ... I know I will! Zelda! Hey Mike Farber---Get an idea about life. To my frazzled roomie--Don't worry kiddo, we'll wait ft:tr you. Love, Your Best Buddy Stephen-Welcome home! ! ! Know what? I did count the. days. I admit it! I missed you. Love, Annie P.S. Happy Valenttne's Day! Crimus, Flip, and of. course Clink-Happy Valentine's day to the \Dangerous Three\ as you have been named recently. What a team the four of us make-together there's nothing we can't do! !-I love you guys - -Mac ROB-If you come back Monday all depressed again I'll be mad. Be strong, have faith. I KNOW you'll graduate here. with me even if your pareiJts have doubts. What would I do without you anyway!? Keep a stiff upper lip, I'm with you all the way. -Marcy Barton-Happy Valentine's Day! Too bad someone else has A pound Of cheese .or a hill alteady claimed you for the 14th. Oh well, that's the breaks, I guess. Having you as a brother is good enough for me-. Have a great day Bartl +Love, Sis ~. Hal baby-Well here it is. Are you satisfied now that· you can see your name in print? So when are you coming out with your next issue · filled with sheer Mason brilliance? I just can't wait!! --Marcy Pass the puchie, Line . . . Come on Eileen . . . er . . . Wah, I think you need some ... excitement . . . Peggy--Thanks for everything. I can~t wait to be a .Delta! Delta love - Yl.S . Delta pledges, Remember: pledge happy hour at the .pub on Friday. Get psyched ·we're aliilost there! Delta love., Karla SSS-We're thro.ugh being fools! It's. been great so far, get psyched for Europe. . Love - K De at Spongy, Happy B + V's day! I love you very much! - Envying Oscar all the time! ! ! Shari - All I want to ~ay is thanks. Happy Valentine's Day Shar, our party won~t be the same without you. -Marcy Hey Donna, I just bought a book on rising interest rates. your ills. VITA-MAN 6711 How about getting together with · . Lo, Dirk, Donna, Nomin', .I some wine and soft music and - guess this was the '!eek tor. reading it. If you like, I could failing ... Let's make next week bring over some of the pledges, a better one for tests• ·We aU riunor has it you like to talk want to stay . here ne;~tt term, about rising with a group. Drex don't we? --Tinker-· 10-0 and Steve, I \Yas down campus the other day and I was looking for a 99er. I didn't even · see a 69er, no whips or chains. Come on, let's .get on the ball(ing). Drek ·the bored Mo, You missed it! Pizza for everyone. Thirty girls for two guys, and tons. of' Pizza! What a tme to remember. See ya soon. -The Pizza Marl- · Memorex: I'm sorry about the week•late .personal as w:ell as the remarks l made~ I know that your favorite ''wine \ is not a. Flori(lian tan. Love ya, you. know who. P.S. Can't wait till, next week, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha) ha, et~~ LINDA: Happy· Valentill,e's Day! L<ive, Bart - . . . ,. . - voyem! !· \ 1'583 Ave \A\ Dlstilley Presents its own patented recipt: ''TheDave.Fox Special'' N.B. What was that .before, to be sold at the book store at Maria--see, I told you all things proceed to equilibrium! (I am wearing, off on you-uh, oh, could t:llete ever be tw9 like me?! ). Remember, I'm always here when you want to talk. Love ya, Lorraine, Hey! You from last weekend, who the hell are . you! --- N.D.B.~ J.R.-Animal, the week. is over! J., thanks for helping me through it. I couldn't have done it without you. Look out N. Y.C., Chinatown. Love, L. Lardo CAT~ N ~xt time J'm around, I'll try not to block your precious view, if you promise not to look at the creep from last tetm~ Sorry if you didn't have a good time on Sat., soon you'll have your. reli'latch. I love you. Drex something aboutalibies? If you special prices this week only! ! ! keep this up, we may not ·~ Those of you at our r.art:y may friends much longer. I'm even (or m~y not) have remembered embarrassed f()r you. :pid she tbis amazing ambrosia. · look cutethE.~t night too? -Tink ... --- -SNUGGLES, Finally I get tQ tell yo~ hOw very much I love you! ! ! You are the most wonderful lover anyone could have-I shall be your$ forever and ever. Cuddles oxoxoxox Bill of Delta Tau, MA 'l'TS? ! Are you kidding? BILL OF D~LTA T~U, How many personals do you want? Suzanne BETA PSI, Ha,ppy Valen- tine's Day and Delta love. Pledges, \I do. not Ji.ke green eggs .and ham . . . \ ·A sister Nu Jappa 'Kappa- Remember~ kiddo, I still' owe you dinner and it .is your choice. Windows on the World or Burger King or even the Bloomies Coffee Shop. LOve ya always, Rho Epsilon Alpha. MARCYSHELLY JOYCE- kOBIN:. Happy_ V.alentin.e's Day! Love you all!.! FATSO Jason- Thou mouthus· run- nE!th overuth ... no wond~r tbey let Cozzi do the play•by~play you doggeth of s. · ... Everyqne who listened to the Hartwick game. SHAW-Ilove yo.ur new haircut. Have. a luippy valen- tine's day, PlY little Dolly Boom. Tink, \This guy sucks right? you put me with some guy who sucks\ ''Hey look at those LO, thanks for a great ~~r, spider-webs\ \I feel good, no I and a much needed. talk, 1t was ·Louisa, Happy Valentine's Day from your-ob:t roomie. fonnerly 204R Gayle, We had better watch thos~ matching dresses. Suzanne SKI-Thank you for picking me up and visiting nie, a~though you're only trying to get pledge points from me. Love, YBS , feel bad, no I feel good. I don't one of the best nights of the know how I feel. How do you years. Maybe we'll make feel?\ \Bummer we're another bet. And maybe· you missing sig-chi\ \Let's watch will win. And. maybe I'll buy M.T.V.\ Nomin dinner. And maybe the cork will make a fool out of me thistime. NY'': WPLJ. I miss you lots. I . _ NAH. Drex Happy birthday to a \JA.; from Roslyn? (and a great t:oomm~te too). MEZZIE BEBE-First personaloftheterm! Thank you for being, tqere when I needed you (now you can go backto the all night study). Avec amour, ta can't wait! Good luck on your ____ .......___._.___....._ ..... tests, and hurry home! See you Do y(}u feel sick? Are you a at the airport. AML, \ACE\ little sluggish? If you need a little pep, call me. I'll cure all Who knows, mayl:)e door number three is really the twilight zone? Could be! · meilleur amie. P.S. I love your brother Is your pizza made with a pound of cheese or a hill . of beans? That's the question to ask when ordering your next ~izza. Domino's Pizza uses nearly a pound of 1 00% real dairy cheese on o1.1r large double cheese pizzas. Many of our competitors cut costs with artifical cheese made from soy· beans. - Domino's Pizza believe\s in quality. We promise fast, .free delivery in 30 minutes or less. And when we promise: Domino's Pizza Delivers.~ We use only 100% real dairy cheese. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Limited delivery ar~a . ~ 1081 Oomino'n P1zza, Inc. 127 NottTerrace PHONE: 372-4441 --------~------, t l : $2.00~ '·: I f I ®I I I I $2.00 off any 16\ 2-item 1 1 or more-Pizza 1 I QneCouponper Pizza 1 I Expires: Feb. 24, 1983 1 I FAST, FRE·E DELIVERY 1 I . 127 Nott Terrace 1 I PHONE: l72-444l J I I L--------------- .. -~-- ... ~---.----.-------,.- I . ~ : $1.00 . I I . I a:c::;;~~ . , I ~ - ~ I 1 $LOOoftanysizel-item l 1 or more Pizza 1 1 One Coupon Rer Pizza .· 1 J Expires: Feb. 24, 1983 1 I FAST, FREE DELIVEitY' I 1 127 Nott T~rrac:e 1 I PHONE: 372-4441 I I I ~~~~~----------~ r-~----~-~--~--1 : FREE 1 I EXTRA. :1 ® lTHICK CRUST ® 1 • On Any Size Pizza 12'' 0 ·1(;\ 0 of beans? I I I I I I I I ·one coupon per Piz:;ra Expires: Feb. 24, 1983 FAST,FREE DELIVERY 127 Nott'rerrace .. ,,,,,, /':.-~;~·:·· PHONE: 312-4441 '· .. · . I t · · ·.' · ._ _____ . ______ ...... ____ _.j . . : - ; ~A~i.f:~·::::J~>·\ --~-: -;--,-; :_:- ~ ~ ,--- .:·:t~ ·\ - ·-·-, ~'\\' ~- .:- ~--:-. ''!). . ' '~ -:'' ~-~~:~?+,~: .

- about w:ell I know \is not you. week, lstilley ~tented at . nt· I 11 0 y ... may ~JI.lbeted owe or en the ~ve ya ~ntine's FATSO run- tbey you who game. new valen- ~ Dolly picking ~lthough pledge YBS -First you needed cktothe ta I I I I .. I ~ I I I I I I I I I I __ _, '.:- ,··.··) ':<1\ ·, OONOORDIF)NSlS, February 10, 1983 Page 17 SPORTS Intramural Roundup: MiEN'S BROOMBALL ORANGE LEAGUE s-on,.S HOOPS 1. Cannonballers · · 2. Sigma Chi Blue 3. Aces 4. Hanson Brothers 5. Dry Heaves 6. Fiji 7. Sigma Phi .B a. Primates GREEN LEAGUE 1. Home Office 2. Chu·nksters 3. Cinderella Kids 4. Sigma Chi Gold 5. Delta Chi Dogs 6. Phi. Delta Theta. 7. Zoo Crew 8. Z.BT · BLUE LEAGUE l. Si'gma Phi A 2.Raccoons 3. Delta Phi 4. Neutral Corner· 5. Kappa Sigma 6. Delta Chi 4-0 - 4~1 3~1 3~3· 3-4· 2-3 l-3 1-4 5-1 4-1 4-1 3-2 2-3 2-4 1-3 0-5 4-'0-1 3-0 ' 3-1-1 3-1 3-l 2-3 A LEAGUE 1. Sigma Chi Beavers 2. Sigma Chi Gold 3. D.U. Dogs 4. Breakers 5. Chi Psi A 6. Theta Delta Chi 7. Southern Rebels 8.0oparts 9. B.I-.A.S:· B LEAGUE (RED) l. 0~. U. Devils 2. Rim Wreckers 3. Delta ChiOne · 4. Phi Delta 5. Del'ta Phi 6. 4th Floor West 7. Phi Sig 8. Demons 9. Togwanpabawa 4-1 4-1 4-1 4-1 2~2 2~2 l-4 0-5 Forfeit 7-0 4-0 4-2 4-3 3,.3 2-3 2-3 Forfeit Forfeit B LEAGUE (WHITE) . 1. Cartoons 2. Fiji 3. K. Men 4~ D.U. Men 5. Smoke Heads 6. Sigma Chi· Gold 7. 2nd Floor South 8. Chi Psi Z 9. QTI B LEAGUE (BLUE) 1. SMO's 2: Dunks 3. United WASC 4. Delta Chi 2 5. Beerbel lies 3 6. Commandos 7. 3rd Floor West 8. Chi Psi B • ttmes Fourteen oz. glass mug for sale. It's the two-fisted way to drink to good times and salute your great taste . in drinks. Why not start a collection? Please send this coupon, along with a check or money order for $4.95 per mug (no cash plea~e) to: Seagram's 7 Crown Mug Offer, P.O. Box 1622, New York, N.Y. 10152 Na~~·------------~~~r-------------~ ~r·~------------~~--------------~~ Cl~ I Statg, ______ ___,_,jp'---\- ........... -- Speclfyquentlty . mountencloledS-· ----- UNIC14 - Offer expires January 31, 1984. No purchase necessary. • New York residents add·B.25% sales tax. Please allow 4 to 6 weeks for shipment. Stagram:s · 6-1 4-1 4-1 3-3 3-4 2-3 1-3 ,l-4 0-4 3-0 3-0 4-1 3-2 2·2 2-3 1-3 Forfeit WOMEN'S BROOMBALL 1. Jetson's 3-0 3-l 2-2 1-1 0-1 0-3 2. Richrnond Raiders 3. Dry Ice 4. CollinsKiHers 5. 4th Floor West 6. Penthouse Players CURLING CANADIAN DIVISION TOC 2-0 2-0 2-1 1-1 1-2 l-2 o~3 Sham 4th Floor South Frigid Rocks Far East Curlers Fiji Purple Sig ,Chi Rocks SCOTTISH DIVISION Union University 3~ 1 2-<> 2\ 1 1- 1 1-2 o~2 0-3 Rink Rats Zoo Crew Beavers Fiji White SOT ZBT AnENTION SENIORS: All yearbook pictures must be in Student Activities Office by February 18th ATIENTION • UPPER-CLASS STUDENTS Spring Term - Meal Plan Registration will be open in the Food ··Service Office after February 18, 1983 for Union College Up· perclassmen. If you do not receive a registration card with your tuition bill, please ·pick one up in the Food Service Office. Register early for Spring Term, to avoid any delays in your meal plan. Please return your payme11t and registration card in the envelope provided, directly to the Food Service Office in Car- ne$Jie Hall. Thank You. · All pre-paid 1J p- perclass meal plans received by February 25, 1983 will receive a free guest pass, for one meal.

Page 18 CONOORDIENSIS, February 10, 198!1 Snow, At Last ByJCK Sports Staff Holiday Valley was the site of last week's ski race. The team, having trained on Wednesday in rainy unseasonable weather, was not prepared for racing in five inches of f~esh powder. Pat Virnich was in good form and finished within. the top 15. Earl Stokes had many a spectator in awe as he turned in a sixth place finish in the first run of the slalom. Almost half of the racers disqualified because of the conditions of the race course. \Keep your speed down and watch out for the cliff,\ were the only words of advice that Carol Yerden could muster when asked about the slalom course. Despite these conditions Mike Balte and Dan Rosenthal made an overall strong effort. The giant slalom held greater success for the Union ski team. Brian Walter and Earl Stokes finished first and second for Union, and fourteenth and fifteenth in ()Verall standings. Pat Virnich maintained control through the giant slalom and finished both runs quite well. Dave Ross raced for the first time this season while Carl Aiken remained in Schenectady resting his tom Ugaments from last week's practice. The team is hopeful at having a very solid team before the next race, at Jiminy Peak. J!lr .. . . Intramural Spot J!le ByG.W. Sports Staff This week's intramural spotlight is on sophomore Mark Hurwitz for Ws excellent per- formance in last term's billiards tournament. Mark overcame a rough field of thirty competitors to win the cham- pionship and the coveted Miller Ute trophy. Congratulations to Mark who is a brother of the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity. The intramural department urges all interested students to par- ticipate in the special events. Remember Your • VALENTINE! Circle K Flower Sale • Thursday & Friday \ Feb. 10 & 11 10:30-5:30 Carnegie Hall • Prospective Athletes: Physical examinations for all spring sports will be held on Sunday, Feb. 13, in the Athletic Training Room of Achilles Rink. The schedule is as follows: Women's Lacrosse 6:45p.m. Women's Softba II 7: 00 p.m _ Spring Track 7:15p.m. Baseball 7:30p.m. Men's Lacrosse 7:45p.m.· Men's Tennis 8:00p.m. Further information·-call 6136 STUDENT ACTIVITIE.S BUS TRIP TO HAMILTON COLLEGE Saturday, February 12. 1983 Time of departure.: 5:15 p~mc from Alumni Gym Bus ncket Price $J.OO at Student Activities at Camegie Hall -BASKETBALL- Hamilton No. 1 in NY State vs UNION No. 3 in NY State SPORTS S • G··. • v· t _w1mme~rs - .a1n -· ·. 1:c ory~ ByS.J. · On Saturday, -the Hamilton The team's record now stands Sports Staff The Union College swim te81D traveled on Wednesday to New Paltz for a tri~meet against New Paltz and Vassar. At the end of the meet, the· team had its first win of the season by beating Vassar 77-24. New Paltz beat Union 66-45. Taking firsts against Vassar were the team of Jacobs, Chabot, Howd' and Zehl in the 400 medley relay, Abbey (1000 Fr, 200 Brst), Newbold (200 Fr, 500 Fr), Zehl (50 Fr), Howd (200 I.M., lOO,Fr), Kaplay (200 Foy), Jacobs (200 Bk), and the tearn ofZehl, Pearl, Abbey and Freed in the 400 Free Relay. Taking seconds were Pearl (1000 Fr), Fox (200 Fly, 500 Fr), and Freed (200 Bk). Things against New Paltz did not go as well, as New Paltz with their greater depth out- swam Union. Taking firsts for Union was the team·of Jacobs, Chabot, Howd and Zehl in the 400 Medley Helay. Other firsts , were Kaplan (200 Fly) and Abbey (200 Brst.) swi.In team came to Union. at 1 ... 9. They will next be in ac- Haniirton, always a tough team tion on Feb. l9th at Utica, their f()r Union, defeated the nut- last meet of the season. After clunen 68-38. Taking firsts for that meet, many look .forward to Uni()n were Newbold(lOO Free) goiligtotheStatesonFeb. 26-28. and Abbey (200 Bl'st). l>ulc;hvvoman swimmer Lisa Freed en route to,a·second place finish in ti'Je,200 mete~ backstrpke against Vassar. Union defeated Vassar 77-24. . . . record falls to 5-6 I Tough Week For Dut.chwomen By S.J. BLOOMBERG Sports Staff The women's basketball team faced a series of .setbacks this past week with three losses, bringing their current record to 5-6~ In last Tuesday night's game against St. Rose, Union suffered from a tremendous number of fouls, allowing the opponents to win by a score of 74-65. Although HOW'S JOUR PERSONAL LIBRARY? Did you know there's a second-hand book shop only one block from campus? · Ou.r stock of thousands of out-of-print volumes, entirely free of textbooks .... and paperbacks, is frequented by both students and professors who are building libraries. We're open every afternoon, and welcome browsers. Somers Bookshop 841 Union Street (across Gillespie) Mountebanks' Metropolitan Nite Club Tuesday, Feb. 15 8 & 10 p.m. Cabaret Room Tickets: s1.00 at Carnegie Beer & Wine Available BringiD .. Union,had two effectiVe scorers, Rel>ecca Clemente with 20 points a11d Julie Miller with 17 points~ they accumulated enough fouls to eliminate three members of the starting team bef()re the game was com- pleted. In tbe game against RPI, Urtion was unable to keep the lead in overtime, losing85-79. At_ halftime, RPI led by only one point with a 41-40 .edge. Union appeared to be having problems in the seccnd half, falling behind_ by 12, but then revitalized their energies to even the score at 71 apiece at the end of regulation time, Although Union was unable to break away in overtime, three ·starting players had good shooting games: Cay Lynch finished with 22. points, Rebecca Clemente with 18 points and Patty Richards with 16. During the weekend Union played Division II opponent LeMoyne and lost by a score of 83-39 after being unable to pull their forces together. Noteworthy, though, . was the play of Cay Lynch, who scored 16 points in the game. Electric City . -Comics & Magazines-... 1704 YanVra,nken Ave. (corner of Mason & Van Vranken just 4 blocks from campus!) Featuring: ©MARVEL --new comics: including Camelot 3000, MOon Knight and other Direct-only books . . -back iss.ues: over 40,000 in stock . J - -fantasy magazines: Elfquest, Cerebus, Heavy metal . -alternative pu.bllcations -underground comics: A FULL LINE - _, P~ONE 377-1500 'HOurs: 12·7 Tues.-Fri.; 11·6 Sat. 0 .... 0 .c 0. r-: ~ . - - nE fo w fo g~ M 17 27 or pl S< I G 01 R ll: w sl n v a d a c a B tt sl tl g E s t f ' < I ( ~ I r l ~ t f I t

to OONOORDIENSiS, February 10; 1988 Page 19 SPORTS Play-OH Selection Process Athlete Of the Wee Sports Talk By DREW HURLEY Sports.Staff . CongratUlations to freshman netminder. ·Wayne McDougall for garnering Athlete of the week honors for . his per- formance 'in Skating Dutchmen games against Salem St. and Merrimack. Against Salem-St., the 6'0\ 175lbs. economics major mad~ 27 saves and stopped a three. en one break late in the game to preserve a tie with a red hot Salem team. Last Saturday ntght, McDougall w~s in the twine as Union defeated Merrimack for the first time ·in Union College hockey history, 7-3. McDougall made a total of 34 saves, in- c_luding eight breakaways. ·, three -of which came in the first · eight minutes of the. game. . For his- performance, McDougall was, named ECAC's Rookie of the Week and is currently the leading goalie among Division II teams from both the East and. West. In eight games against Division II op- ponents, - McDo.ugall has Bas-ket.ball 14~2 ••• Continued from page 2e next eight llli.nutes but when Rochester was forced to foul late in the game, the Dutchmen were true from the fo111 line shooting 8•9 in the final two minute8 and held on for the victory. :Bartlett, Wood, Clinton and Feigelsori all scored in double figures with 17, 16, 14, and 12 points, respectively. ClintOn handed out his usual 8 assists and Feigelson and Bartlett pulled down nine and ten re~ounels; .-especijvely~ Dutchmen start slow, finish.'fast 'Despite getting off to another slow start, Union stretched their winning streak to seven games as they crUised by Bingh. am.ton 76-53. For a while jt seemed a$ though the Dut- chmen were not able to get \up\ for the game as they fell behind 9-0 before Joe Clfuton put them on the board with a bomb at 15:04. Union opened up a nine point lead late in the half. but superior foul shooting by the Colonials (14 of 16) kept the score close at halftime, 33-28. After Binghamton closed the gap to three points, 39-36, Union p~t the Colonials away for the mght with a 15-4 burst. With Union playing sturdier defense and keeping their opponents off the foul line it_ was. easy sailing from tbere. Joe Wood led all scorers ·with twenty-seven points en route to a 76-53 vic- tory. Keys to this game were the solid play of the reserves when the starters got into foul trouble, and the ability of the team to regroup at the half after apparently looking past the game earlier on. D'Orazio suited up for the game and contributed' nine poirits. · For tne first time this season a \ crowd\ was on hand at the Memorial Fieldhouse Saturday .afternoon to witness the Dutchmen overcome :Plattsl:mrgb and play perhaps the. best ten-minute stretch of ball of their season. The Garnet fiv~ were finally able to get out of the starting blocks early thanks to fine outside shooting by center Ken P'Orazio. D'Orazio bit the first four shots he took, allfrpm fifteen feet out, and looked comfortable doing so. Not only will ,this ·outside touch add to the scoring punch ·in games to come but it will also force the defensive center outside and thus open up the middle for Joe Wood and Jeff Felgelson .. Unfortunately D'Orazio fell into early foril trouble .and was not able to continue his shooting display. )l:x:citing playim.presses crowc;l At 13:29·with the score 14-13 in favor of Plattsburgh, Union· took control of the game. Led by guards Joe Clinton who finished with a game-high twenty points, Joe Wood and forward Jeff Feigelson, the Dutchmen tdrned the one point deficit into a twenty point lead with 2:49left in the half. The exciting play in this stretch was the key to the victory and really showed the fans how good this team can play. Hopefully the per- formance was appreciated and will be repaid by further sup- port. Unnecessary fouls in the last two minutes enabled Platt- sbllfgh to cut the lead to 15, 45- 30, at the end of the half. For- wards Jeff Feigelson, Jim Doherty and Brian Laux, who has been comipg on strong recently, all playt!d a ·noticeably more offensively aggressive ~yle of game. This will be a key m games .to come ·as there is definite room for improvement . ( · allowed only 19 goals, made 220 saves, and shows a 4-3-1 record. Overall, McDougall is 441, recording 303 saves and allowing only 33 goals. With SCOTT WYKOFF ·Sports Staff Wayne attributes his success . to regaining his confidence Both the Union College after a ·college debut loss to Division r Dartmouth. Skating Dutchmen hockey team McDougali - hails from and the ·Dutchmen basketball Guelph, Ontario, the home of squad are enjoying successful two former Skating Dutchmen campaigns in their respective _ Dave . and Jimmy Josephson: Division II and Division III Best of luck to Wayne and' the seasons. The goal of Charlie rest of the Skating Dutchmen as Morrison's Union hockey team th is to reach the ECAC Div. II st:%tc:~ad down the playoff , playoffs in late Febmary. For Bill Scanlon and his Dutchmen .hoop team the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow is the NCAA . Div. n~ playoffs. Both coaches know that the easy way to reach their respective goals would be by winning all their remaining games. But this is quite an unrealistic wish. at this point in the winter as botlt hockey and basketball have a number of .e very tough opponents left on • ~ their slates. ]vlorrison and o.. Scaiilon share the common goal · o of reaching post season play in this area. V) while the way each team will possibly be s.elected differs as much as day and night. Plattsburgh continued the momentum they bad started late in rthe first half, as they outscored the Dutchmen 16-6 in the first eight minutes of the second half. In this time period, the Cardinals used a tough over- playing man-to-man defense to force turnovers while Union could not put even a layup in the basket. Finally Coach Scanlon called a time-out and regrouped his troops. The strategy worked as Union went on an _eight point tear to make the score 59-46 with 6: 34 left. This was all the room the. Dutchmen needed as they won their 11th in the last 12 games, by a score of 72-56. · Thus last week the Dutchmen made many accomplishments en route to their three victories. They overcame injury, got good play out of the reserves, did not get too over-confident, got more offense from the forwards, and may have brought the crowds- back to Memorial Fieldhouse for good. Last night the Dut- chmen played at Hartwick in a game which Joe Clinton probably moved into third place in career scoring at Union. On Friday night the Dutchmen are looking for a big crowd at the Memorial Fieldhouse as they face 11-4 Norwich and on Saturday they play at national power Hamilton. Morrison's Skating Dutchmen compete in the western division of the ECAC Div. -II. The ECAC's playoff selection process has changed this winter. This season the ECAC will select the top four teams from the Western divisic,m that the Dutchmen compete in. If the playoffs were held today Union would be selected from the West along with Norwich, Platt- sbUl'gh and Middlebury. A very simple process of selection: those four teams with the best records earn a spot in the 1982- 83 plsyoffs. At this juncture in the season it looks as though Morrison's goal will turn into reality as the Skating Dut- chmen have moved themselves into a fairly secure position in the top four of the west. For head basketball coach Bill Scanlon, the selection process that his team will go through at the end of February will be much more nerve- wracking than that of · the Skating Dutchmen. Unlike hockey, Union basketball competes solely as an in- dependent member of the NCAA Div. III. Bill Scanlon's squad does not compete in a separate division with seven - other teams like hockey. His squad must win, win and keep on winning to build. an im• pressive record for any hopes to reach post-season play. When · the season is over the playoff . selection process for hoops, recelve post-season NCAA playoff bids. Over the · season, Bill Scanlon's squad has been moving up in the New York State coaches poll. At press time, Union enjoyed a third place NYS ranking behind Buffalo State and Hamilton. 'JJhe· New York State coaches that participate in tbis poll have shown a great deal of respect for Union College basketball all season. Unfortwtately for Union basketball the national Div. III poHs have snubbed the Dut- clunen up through last week. Union has already defeated the nation's number 6 team (St. Andrews) and' owns a much more impressive record than many of the teams that have been ranked nationally. At one point this season Staten Island was ranked lower in the New York State rankings than Union while also holding down a position in the nation's top 20 rankings. How can one explain the fact that Union ranked ahead of Staten Island in the NY poll and not ahead of them in the Div. Ill national rankings? The main reason that this hypocricy occurred was the fact that only NY coaches vote in the NY poll that has ranked tlle Dutchmen high all year. But the rankings in the national Div. III poll are made by coaches and sports writers from all over the United States. Staten Island has been a power in Div. III hoops over the recent years while Union has not. Voters from Texas and Florida, for example, respect the name of Staten Island because of their fairly decent record but mostly because of their program's past reputation as a power. Union's basketball teain has no past reputation nationally as a p()wer so they have been disregarded by the national polls even though they are enjoying a banner season. The NY State coaches have ranked Union well aU season because they are close to the NY hoop scene and perceive the region's talent much more realistically than an observer from another part of the United States. THE ROCK-N-ROLL PIZZA PUB unlike hockey, is strictly sub- jective. A committee will sit down and decide amongst themselves who they feel should Look for Union basketball to get much more respect from the NCAA playoff selection com- mittee at the end of the season if they continue to win. But one always has to be a bit nervous when the destiny of one's own team can be put into the hands of an often unobjective selection committee. the only .FREE delivery pizza pub on campus DUE TO POPUI._AR DEMAND, ONCE AGAIN RECEIVE: ' TWO (2) FREE ME.DIUM SIZE~ SODAS with the purchase of any large or small pizza FREE -from Rock-n .. Roll Call Us: 370-6060 Open: 4:30·? Delivery: 5:30-1l:30 Department of the Arts· presents Lunchtime Harpsichord Concert Series by Hugh Allen Wilson Every Wed. Afternoon, 12:45-.l :15 p.m. Jon. 19·Mar. 2 ARTS 202 The public is cordiaUy iB\ited to attend

Page 20 OONCOBDIENSlS~ February 10, 198_8 SPORTS ••• Face (11-4) Norwich Fri., (17-3) Hamilton Sat. Ho·opsters ·Stref.ch Strea'k t9 8 ' . . ~ By RICK SAPIIl 'Sports Editor The Union College basketball Dutchmen are flying high after three victories last week over Rochester 69~4. Binghamton 76-53,and PLattsburgh 72-56. The conquests improved Union's record to an impressive 14o;2 and elrtended their winning streak to eight games. Winning is now a state of mind for the Dut~ chmen and as long as their confidence does not turn into over-confidence their winning ways should continue. teams in which Union ·was the victor. It was the first time this season that an injury kept a Dutchman out of action. Meanwhile, the Yellow-Jackets were out for revenge and trying to extend a five .game wiJlning streak of their own: But the Dutchmen proved up to the te5t as si4th man Kevin Bartlett (6'6\) ably filled in for D'Orazio. Bartlett led Union in both points (17) and rebounds (12). go ahead 41-35 at 11:55. The· teams played evenly for the Cont1u1,1ed on page 19 RKhtll.., Un.i•n G F T G \ T Lowney 1 2 6 Clinton· 7 0 1~ Fllrgereld 5 o. 10wood 7 2 16 DeGoyler 1 ~ 2 Feigelson l 6 12 Blue • 0 lt Oohilrly 1 0 2 Augu~llne • 0 11 Bartlett s 7 17 ~blewsk·i 0 0 0Ltult J 0 2 Trumbower 2 2 6 Llfityette l 0 4 Jones 0 0 0 Barry 0 2 2 Bltektlu(n 0 0 0 Tttals 25 4 54 Tetiats Mil\ Union Blnghamto• G F T G \ T ' Clinton 6 0 :IZ· Pollard 5 2 12 Wood 11 S 11 Colemen 1 1 l Felgelwn 2 0 4 Selame i ' 6 Doherty I 0 2 Thoubrn 1 ·1 j Bartle If ' 2.· 10 ZlesiG: 7 7 16 Lauz 2 3 7 Young 3 7 13 ·Lalayette I 0 2 Jonei. 1 1 l .... D'Orazio 3 3 9 Tot ali :ar 14 1r. TottiJ 11 17 53 Plemtlllftll UniOI! G f• T G f' T .Maniallil 2 7 11 Clinton a ·~ . Sltu\vllle ~ 0 10 wood s 4 14 . McGtnn· 3 3 9 b~Orazlo 5 0 10 Ho.oan 2. 2 6 Feigi!!l\on s 2 i2 Gtod•• s l 12 eariltll• ' I 9 liiW 2 0 4 LIUX 1 3 s Park' 1 0 2 Steven\ 1 0 2 Totals 21 14 56 Total• 29un Senior forward Jeff Feigelson rips .down a rebot~nd of a missed Plattsburgh Cardinal foul shot in Memorial Fielaho.use. Union beat Plattsburgh .72-56. BAS;K ETBA·LL U·N ION 14-2 vs NORWICH 11-4 Friday, FE!bruary 11 .. 1983, 8 p.m. Fieldhouse FREE WITHUNlON ID .. All three of last week's games were similar in the respects that guards Joe Wood and Joe Clinton played their us.ual outstanding complementary brand of ball, the big men performed solidly, and the winning margins were all fif- teen points or better. But each game held keys that were important to their respective victories and that will continue to be important if the Dutchmen are to be a tournament bound team. Although the Dutchmen came out ice cold, not scoring untU nearly six minutes into the game, a twelve point surge beginning with a Clinton to Jeff Feigelson layup and ending· with a Clinton to Wood. breakaway allowed the Du:t. chmen to move ahead 19-14 with 4:25 remaining in the half. The Dutchmen, thanks to strong performances from reserves Brian Laux and Todd Lafayett (four points, five rebounds) were able to bring a one point lead into the lockerroom at halftime, 25-24. aartlett also performed well in the balf scoring seven points and grabbing eight rebounds. • • • Face Bowdoin Sato Against Rochester, Union was forced to play without sophoQlore center Ken D'Orazio who had twenty-three points and thirteen rebounds in an earlier meeting between the two Tough man to man defell$e in the second half gave Union a little breathing room after a series of steals allowed Union to Union69 Union 76 Union 72 Union3 Union 7 Union 5 SCOREBOARD BASKETBALL (14-2) U.OF Rochester 54 Binghamton 53 Plattsburgh 56 HOCKEY (8-6-1 Div. II) Salem State 3 Merrimack3 Plattsburgh St. 2 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (5-6) St. Rose 74 Union 65 Union 79 Union 39 RPI85 LeMoyne83 Union 77 New Paltz66 Hamilton68 Basketball V. Hockey SWIMMING (1-9) SPORTS HAPPENINGS Feb. 10-17 Vassar 24 Union 45 Union 38 J.V .. Hockey Women's B-Ball Feb. 11 at Norwich 8: 00 Feb. 12 at Hamilton 8: oo Feb. 15 at Clarkson 4: 00 Feb. 17 vs. Albany St. 8: 00 Feb. 12 vs. Bowdoin 8:00 Feb. 15 at Elm ira 7: 30 Feb. 17 at North Adams 7: 30 Feb. 17 vs. Berkshire 3: 3o· Feb. 12 at Hamilton 4: oo Feb. 16 at Oneonta 7: 00 Feb. J2 C. D. Meet at R PI Indoor Track Union swimmer Ron Newbold in action Sat. against Hamilton. (See. ~whnmfng art. p. 18). - Downs Merrimack 7-3 By~CPSIS Sports Staff The Union College Skating Dutchmen emerged from a tough week wlth a tie and a win to boost their record to 7-6-1 and a share of third place in the ECAC Division II Western Region standings~ On Tuesday, the Dutchmen traveledto Salem,Mass .. to take on the Salem State Vikings. Union and Salem squared offin a defensive battle that ·saw Salem's freshman goaltender Ross Mottau turn back 39 Dutchmen shots to enable the Vikings to preserve a 3-3 tie. Salem scored fjrst on the powerplay while Union's Gill Egan was iri the box for trip. ping. Union netminder Wayne McDougall cleared the puck where it was .picked up by senior defenseman Peter Vasapali, who blasted the puck through a screen into the upper right corner of the net at 3 :29 of the first period.- Brad Nicholson tied the game at 5:20 with a backhand goal from directly in front of the Salem net. Just 1:46 later, Tod Fobare netted his 19th goal of the season to give Union its only lead in the game. Bill Kirby hit Fobare with a pass down the right boards, where Tod cut in and fired a ten-foot. blast past Mott(lu. Salem's Bob Maguire beat McDougall with a slapshot to the stickside to tie the game at 9:36 with both sides a man down. Salem scored just 31 seconds into the second p_eriod to put the Vikes up 3-2. Scott McCaffrey fired a slapshot by McDougall, assisted by Maguire, who finished with a goal and two assiSts. Salem's Bill Kenny was sent off for tripping at 9:50 when B-rad Nicholson scored his second goal of the game at 11:24. Freshman defensel'Ilan John Mackenzie rushed the puck and fed Cqrt Cole in front. Mottau made the initial save, but Nicholson cashed in on the rebound for the tie. Union _ missed a glittering chance for a v.ictocy when they failed to score on a five-on-three p()werplay (or the last minute and half of the thlrd period. McDougall saved the game for the Dutchmen when he made a great save in overtime to thwart the Vikings' attempt at victory. After departing the Witch City, Union faced traditional Division II power Merrimack at Achilles Rink on Saturday night in a key game for the Dut- chmen. The Dutchmen showed that they will be a factor in the upcoming playoffs by ham- mering the Warriors 7-3. After giving up two early goals to Denis Barrette and Bryan Gustin, . Union's McDougall shut down the vaunted Warrior offense and Union poured .the pressure on beleaguered junior netminder Bill Crosby, who made 33 saves overall. Red-hot Brad Nicholson opened Union's scoring by - putting his 12th goal of the year by Crowby from the slot at 13:13. Donny Beall slapped home a feed from the corner to make it two all at i3:53. Achilles Rink exploded when Danny O'Neill blocked a shot at the point and .flew in alone on Crowby. The senior forward faked out Merrimack's .goalie and put the puck home to give Union the lead for good. Senior Co-Captain Scott Fitzgerald scored at 19:00 on the power· play when his shot , from the point was deflected past Crosby. , Merrimack -pulled within one point when high scoring Deron.._ aarton scored on the powerplay at 8: 56, but that was as close as the Warriors would get as sophomore Joe Picano scored his second goal of the year at 1l :04 when he pulled the puck out from behind the net into the empty cage as Crosby was caught out of position. Fresh· man Tom Hodgins continued the onslaught,. scoring with two seconds remaining in the seoond stanza. · The third period was an even, two-way affair that turned chippy as Metrirnach showed their frustration at a fired-Up Union squad. . Jamie Knight applied the coup de grace at 19:27 to .finish off the scoring. ICE CHIPS-A vociferous crowd Of 2,207 witnessed the Merrimack clash . . . Senior Brad Nicholson has had the hot hand as of late, including three · goals last week . . . Senior Donny Beall extended his scoring streak to seven games, longest on the club this season .. . Freshman netminder Wayne McDougall· now sports an iJn,.. pressive set of Pi vision ll stats: 4-3-1 record, 2.33 goals against average, and an outstanding .920 save percentage (see Athlete of the Week story) .... A fine job for Union special teams this season, the penalty killers allowing only a 20.2 . percent success rate, while the powerplay has hit on an out- standing 33.3_ percent of its attempts . ; .. The Dutclunen pl~y their final home· game of the regular season Saturday as. they face o_ff against the Polar Be~rs of Bowdoin Coll~e. Score bY periods; Union Salem Sl~t• 2 1 0 0·3 2 1 0 0·3 FIRST.PERIOD: Sctrlflg • ~ Salem State, Vasapolli (Storer, Maguire), 3:29; 2, l)nion, Nichol&on (O'Neill, Beall), S:'lo; 3< Union, Fobore (Kirby), 6:56; 4, 'Salem State, Ma· gulre (Kenny), 9:36. Penalties- Egan. Union, 2:35; Caruso, Union, 8:08; Melanson, Salem Slate,I:08. Saves· McDougall (U), 11; Motl!llJ (S), 9. , SECOND PERIODi Scoring • 5, Salem Stele, McCaffrey (Maguire'), :31; -. Union, · Nicholson (Cole; MacKenllt!l, 11;2~. Penal• ttes· Mader,Salem·Siate, 4:)4; Mac:t<,en-z.ie, Union, 8:05; Kenny, Snlein State, 9:50; Ma- guire, Salem State, 16:39; Kenny, Salem State, l7:3A. Saves • McDougall, I; Mottau, 17. . • THIRD PERIOD: Scoring • None. Penal· tle5 • Maguire• S!!lem State, 111:·18. Saves • McDougall, 5; Motlau, 7. OVERTIME: Scoring - None. Penalties • None. Snves - McOougnll, 3-27; Mottau, 6- 39. Sholl on goal: Union Salem State Score. by period&: Merrimack Union _....,. ..... --- II 11 7 6-42 13 ' 5 3- 30 2 i .... 3 • 2 1- T FIRSt PfiRfOO: Scor,ing- 1, Merrl111ac~. . t- BarteUe (Lac:ombe, Blaqlller~). 1:01; 2, . Merrimec~. ·Gu,tin (t.tnh51sted), 5;20; J, Union, Nicholson .(O'Nelli. Cole), 13: 13; A, Union, Beall ( Fobare, Fitzgerald), 13:53; S. ·Union, O'Neill (unauistedl. IA:M;·6, Union, · Fitzgerald (Fobare, Beall), 19:00. Pennltie!> • Benson, Me~rimac·k, 1:~; Caruso. Union, 1·54; Marchioni, Mer~lmlick, 7:29; Sheldon. Mer,rimack.-10:2~; O'Grady, Me~rlm-cl\, 16: H; Dllvh, M~r.rimac~. 18:32; O'Neill. . Union, 19:59. Saves· Crosby IMerrlmac:kl, 12; McOougali (Union), 10. - SECOND PERIOD: Scoring • 1, Merri· mack, Barton (Celli, Davis), 1:56; 8, Union, Picanci(Bondu~ant. Maynard), 11:04; Union, Hodgins (Perras, Caruso·), ~J:SI. Pena1tles - Foliare, Union, 2:07; Egen. Union, 7:20; Turner, Merrlmilck, 11::!0; Sar> ton, MerrimacK, 14:0~; Hodgins, Union. 16:20. Saves -cros1Jv •. 12; Mc0ougafl,l3. THIRD PERIOD: Scoring • 10, Union. Knight (Fobare), 19:21. Pi!nall\es• OosbY• · Merrimacl< (served by Gallagher), l:at: Bi!irrette, Merrln,acl<, 4:4t Ceru$0, Union. 8:23; Fitzgerald, Union, 9:25; t.elourneeu. 1,-\errimack, 1~:42; Fltrgeralcl, Union, 16:f Oa.vis, Merrimack (double minor), 19: ... · Saves· Cro,bv. 9·33; McDougall, 11·34. Shots on gl)lll: Merrim1clc Onion 12 14 11-31. \ 14 ,._ •. .. ( ... ' 0 - 0 .r:: Cl. c: Qj :;;1

t: ~Pw~ .sed 1eat 3 1ree 11ior his 1es, Ill .. yne im,.. .A its of · • 6- 42 30 , A, s. . . . 0 0 .c c. cxu, No. l5 c: t..~' • 'Qj - ~ ..... ,~-- Financial Aid Of.flcer Ellen Frishberg and Director of Financial Aid Robert Massa York February 17, 1983 \<' '•, r' ,,, ~ .• ; -~·~ · ::f · r -1:·· ;r ;-.· - . ,.~-:--:~ ~-_,. :~ :\ .·: ( ~::..- ·-~: <;~·-:-;.·-~:- .. ~~~,;-· ._\ ' ' Aid Contingent on Draft Registration By JAYBAAUCH Staff . On February 21, Congress drafted legislation of a law that will have, a rna~ or impact on Universities and students across the coUntry. Public Law 97-252 requires that any student above the age of 18 must register for the draft in order to be eligible for financial aid. The law specifically r~quires that, \in order to receive title for aid, a student who is required to register with Selective Service must file a statement with the instituti6n ~e attends certifying that he is m compliance with registration requirements.\ This new law is being heavily opposed by financial aid officers throughout the country, in· eluding the Director of Financial Aid at Union College, Robert Massa. Public Law 97-252 .is being opposed not only -because of moral and constitutional issues, but also because of the ad~ ministrative - problems it presents and the awkward role in which universities and college~ are now placed. Every student who enters eollege will be required to signa statement that h\e has registered for Selective Service or that he was born before 1960. Even though ·women are not required to regist~r for the draft, they will still be required to sign a statement statiilg exemption. In addition to signing a statement, the student must then produce a con- firmation form from the Select Service administration cer• tifying that he has registered. On ·the administrative level this law presents problems not only for the financialaid offiees, - but forthe students as well. This law is scheduled to take effect on July 1, 1983,. and students unaware of the law might not have the confirmation letter. The Department of Education believes that the Selective Service administration wlll be able to mail out tile con- firmation letters in two weeks. There is still, however, the possibility of a 4-6 week delay. This places a burden on the student, ~specially those on the ~trimester system such as at 'Union. In a letter to the U.S. Department of Education from President Morris, who opposes this law, he states, ''it is quite unlikely that a student who arrives with a GSL ( Guaran- teed Student Loan) application on the first day of class will not receive that lo.an check until six to eight weeks .of the term have · elapsed. Becanse there has_ been limited publicity about the proposed rules, and nothing in college literature . outlining tl)is new requirement, the student may not possess hiS Select~ve Service letter. While .the - Secretary of Education claims a two-week turnaround for duplicate let- ters, this may be impossible at peak periods. By the time the loan is certified and processed to a check, the student will be out of school for the term and could be ineligible for the loan Greek System Outraged p. 3 .. on that basis . . . this places a rather undue burden on the student, the ins~itution, and the Guarantee agency. To remedy this situation President Morris reconuriended that the student's ''notarized statement certifying that he has registered (or will register) for Selective Service be accepted as the only document requited for federal student aid eligibility.\ Another administrative problem is that colleges will have to monitor all draft regulation requirements for all financial aid participants. The financb1l aid officers will have to know who is required to register for Selecti\(e Service in the freshman class because not all the freshmen are 18 years old. If a student turns 18 years old halfway through the year. he will r-eceive financial aid for the year merely on the statement he signed in the beginning of the year stating that he is not required to register because he is under 18 years old. When this student becomes a sophomore; the financial aid officer will check to see if he filed a confirmation letter from the Selective Ser- vice administration. If there is no letter, the student cannot receive financial aid. This places a burden on the Financial Aid officers to keep . abreast of the Selective Service status of the students. Stated in the proposed guideline for Public Law '¥'/-252 is that \logistical and- budgetary constraints make a comparison of the Depart- ment's Title IV applicant records and Selective Service registrant records. infeasible, especially in light of the requirement of imple~entation for the 1983-84 award year.\ Bob Massa's emphatic response. to this statement is, \what about the constraints on colleges to administer this iaw for the 19B3-84 year?\ A full scale publicity campaign must be incorporated to make all students· aware of thiS new regulation and to devise an efficient system for ad- ministering this law. Faced with these problems Bob Massa recommended that the date in which this new law is to take effect be delayed to July 1, 1984. Bob Massa said that this delay would not only give time for the Financial Aid officers to remedy administrative problems, but he hopes that in the interim the law will be declared unconstitutional. Thete are various lawsuits pending by state groups que$tioning this law on the constitutional basis. Bob Massa states, \This law was shuttled quickly through Congress.\ Congressman Stratton from Amsterdam said that \most of his colleagues in the House did not understand the implications of this law.\ Bob Massa stated that he hopes that continual pressure on Congress by students, parents, and colleges will cause the Congressmen to look into and reevaluate the issues. A question posed by President Morris asks, \is the additional cost and burden on the already overregulated academy worth the effort to identify a tiny, if any, proportion of male students not fu compliance?\ Male college students, then, are Continued on page 2

CONOORDIENS18, FebNUJ,ry 1.'1, 198~ Caruso COmpar.es TUitions- By DOUG LANDoN · News Editor Student leaders met Tuesday with Michael G. Caruso., Executive Director of the Independent. Student Coalition ( ISC), to discuss and learn about the workings of the ISC and difficulties independent students are experiencing with .aid programs. Union recently joined the ISC, and Caruso conducts informative. talks at is consid~red ''the voice. of independent college and university students-in New York State,\ according to Caruso. A tax-ex;empt subsidiary of the organizatlon, .the Independent Student Coalition Researcli Fund (ISCRF) has been formed to rec.ruit monies for in~ dependent schools from cor~ porations and educational and: research foundations. Michael Car~,tso, Executive Director of the ISC, discusses his all member schools. organization. The ISC, established in 1976, Caruso .said the ISC began in order to fuel the \need for so.- called private college :students to have a voice in the State Legislature and Congress.\ Union is one of about fifty members that finance the organization. No government funds are involved in the program. Old Chapel Changes Begun By GAYLE ROSENFELD Staff As most of the Union com- munity has noted, Stoller Hall, the former home of Union's Security Department,-has been undergoing a few changes .of late. This had been evident by the seemingly permanent fiXture, the dwnpster, that bad been standing outside of Stoner Hall for the past few weeks. However, what isn't commonly known is that along with Stoller, renovation of Old Chapel will begin this sWiliiler. The idea originated about a year ago. A cominittee com- prised of administrators and faculty was formed to get the project underway. According to Vice President for Finance and Administration John Hauser, a member of the committee, \one of the first orders of business\ was that of selecting archltects for the project. They interviewed various candidates and sulr mitted their recommendations to President Morris whereupon the architectural firm of Saratoga Associates was hired. It is this organization, said Hauser, who is \developing plans that will go out for bid this spring.\ The history on Stoller Hall and Old Chapel is quite in- teresting. The chapel itself is over one hundred years old. Outward bound was located on the third floor of Stoller Hall up to about five years ago. Locer rooms were there for use by security until recently. Old Chapel was basically used as a classroom until three or four years ago when the size of Hale House became inadequate for upperclassmen dining. In regards to Old Chapel's use as a dining facility, Hauser had a few points to make. \We didn't think it was the final answer for dining at all,\ said Hauser. The kitchen at Hale House is inadequate and inef- ficient. \It is not a good situation,\ continued Hauser. \We're hoping there's a better way in dealing with dining needs and frankly we're looking at possibilities. A program plan · is under way,\ added Hauser. However, Hauser . also .men- tioned, \We stress that Old Chapel's first function is student dining and we are not going to relocate dining'' as long as it is needed in its present location. Currently, renovations on Stoller Hall are at somewhat of a minimum and nothing is really being done to Old Chapel as of yet. In Stoller, the hung ceiling is being removed by Union's own physical plant workers. Bids will be received in April and ''shortly thereafter we'll be able to award con- 'tracts\ and gather supplies, said Hauser. The \actual work won't conunence until· after finals are completed,\ added Hauser, and are gasically slated to begin one week after · commencement. The project bas been divided into two parts. Phase I includes renovation of Old Chapel for this fall to further ac- commodate student dining while Stoller Hall will continue to undergo work until November or December. Phase n will deal with reconstruction of the second floor of both buildings, but no time tables have been set on this phase as of yet. In the end, Hauser hopes that there will be \three usable levels within the building,\ the first floor, the mezzanine and the second floor. The renovations themselves will encompass quite a bit of areas. Generally, there will be extensive changes in Stoller Hall. A second level will be added by removing the building's hung ceiling and replacing it with a floor. On the first floor a new entrance way and stairwell will be con- structed. The current stairway does not meet fire and safety laws and must be rebuilt. According to information conveyed by Hauser in the February 4 issue of the . Chrooiele, \improvements to Old Chapel and Stoller Hall include structural renovations, woodwork restoration, balcony S.pring Term Pre-Registration Notice Pre-registration materials for spring term 1982-83 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Silliman Hall, begihning Monday, February 21st. Students are urged to secure their pre-registration· materials promptly. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the spring term, . except for graduating seniors, must immedJateiy give notice of th~ir plans to the Office of tiJe Dean of Students. Potential March graduates should inform theQfflce of the Registrar of their plans to complete their studies a tthe end of winter term If they have not already done so. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of February 21·25. Some departments may announce special arrangements. for advising •. Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, February 28th: A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THEREAFTER! Please be on .time, even though your schedule may be Incomplete! .. ' PLEASE NOTE: REQUIRED PERMISSION CARDS FOR DES!GNATEDSPRINGTERMCOURSES WlLL NOT BE AVAILP\BLE FROM DEPARTMENTS UNTIL THE WEDNESDAY MORNING OF THE WEEK OF PREREGISTRATION:. FEBRUARY 23. reinforcement, a new entrance hall and reception area~ ad- ditional floor space. at the. mezzanine area, a new stair-. way, iinproved ceiling lighting, office space for three or four people, and new rest rooms.'' As far as costs ate ~oncerned, an estimated $360,000 will be required f<1r the project. This swn stems from $30 1 000 from the National Endowment for the Humanities, $150,000 from · college funds and $180.,()00 from a Mobil Foundation Grant. · These figures were also listed in the aforementioned article in the Chrooicle. Hauser mentioned that \the integrity of the building will reamain.\ Also, it is hoped that the project will continue the college's current trend of campus beautification along with · making facilities more useful and responsive to the needs .of the campus com- munity. Aid Linked to Draft ' Continued from page 1 the only group who receive federal benefits that are required to demonstrate Selective Service registration. This law is being attacked not · only on administrative issues but on constitutional issues as well. Bob Massa queried, \Why single out student aid? Why not require Selective Service registration from those who were born before 1960 and who collect unemployment or social security benefits, or who receive food stamps?\ He added, \If I was' a college student I would be bitter becausethefederalgovernrnent has singled us out as a group.\ Bob Massa al&o said that not only is he opposed to the singling out of male college students but that he is opposed to the roles the colleges are filling as agents for the federal government. In the event that a student failed to register for Selective Service, Massa wondered if it i$ ''the Financial Aid officer's position to tell the federal government that a student failed to do sn and do they expect us to furnish them with the names and addresses of these students. While colleges are not supposed to be an oasis to escape the law, it is not our responsibility to enforce the law.\ He also stated that there is already a stiff penalty for failure to register for Selective Service. The federal govern· ment is punishing those who do not register twice. A main concern of the ISC presently Is tne effort by some to block Governor Mario Cuomo's proposal to increase SUNY tuition and the strong lobbying potential of the stat~ funded Student Association of the State .. University (SASU). The proposed incre.ase, Caruso said, would be the first such attempt to raise tuition since it jumped $150 three years ago. SUNY students have been vocal in their disappr()val of the increase. SASU has an annual budget of $250,000 ·compared to the ISC's $li5,000· and SUNY has 15 student representatives in the State Legislature for every one from the ISC, despite SUNY's lower enrollment than tnat of private colleges. Although SUNY faculty have successfully lobbied for a $~00 million salary increase over the next three years, the proposed tuition hike remains, in proportion, small. This salary boost, Caruso explained, will be folded futo the New York State budget, rather than funded through tuition. Union salaries (as well as those of other in- dependent colleges) are not state funded. Though Union receives Bundy aid annually, proportional to the number of bachelors', degrees awarded, it is not specifically correlated to salary increases, pointed out Robert J. Massa, Director of Financial Aid. Caruso explained that State Tuition . Assistance Program (TAP) funds do not increase with independent colleges' tuitions, but the $250 proposed SUNY rise includes an aid buffer for students unable to afford the increase. Income profiles of SUNY students are actually higher burden, but by those opposed to the intent of the law. He stated that only men who abide by the law can get benefits from the federal government to attend school. Some colleges, like Hillsdale College in Dlinois and Haver- ford College in Pennsylvania, have decided to .protest this new law by not obeying it and making up for the loss of funds from · their own pockets. Congressman Soloman vehemently stated that these colleges are circumventing the law and proposed legislation whereby these r;olleges would be stripped . of all federal benefits. · This new law was initiated by Saratoga Congressman Gerald Soloman. Bob Massa said that Congressman Soloman was very dogmatic in his response to his and other Financial Aid officer's opposition to his law. Soloman said that he was ap- palled not only by the concern of Financial Aid officers for the insignificant administrative Public Law 97-'252 not only was· shuttled through Congress but the final regulations of this law are being drafted by the Department of Education so as to minimize the criticism. Bob Massa stated that the regulations of Public Law 97-252 were drafted on January 21 of this year and it was published in the Federa,l Register on January 27. Normally, Massa said, there is a 45 day con'llnent · period on the proposed regulations from the day it is published. This time, not only did they cut the comment period to 30 days; but he has not even than those at independent colleges, according to Caruso, and ~r student taxpayer cost ratio between the two ·college categories~is f7 ;000 (SUNY) to $850 . (independent). Minority groups are better 11epresented at independent colleg~s.. alsq~ In spite of these ·apparent inequalities, SASU is pUblicly lobbying against _aid to in- dependent coUeges. Caruso q~_Qted a SASU .poster as reading ''Aid to private colleges not only' wastes tax dollars .•. but (harms) the State University system.\ Caruso describes Union as an independent college, . rather than·private, because it does not turn an annual profit and it is accountable to the New York State Board ofRegents. Private institutions are profit making he said. The Reagan administration's student aid \changes'' were also discussed. Though the President suggests increases in PELL grants tnd the College Work:-Stu~y Program (CWSP), his proposals for cuts in the Supplemental Equal Oppor- tunity Grant (SEOG) and National Direct Student Loans (NDSL) would,, overall, result in an aid reduction, according to Massa. He believes the proposed budget would hurt independent college students. The administration's idea to link student aid and Selective Service registration would discriminate against low in- come people and. students, Caruso anJd Massa agreed. Massa believes the. proposal \picks on college students,\ noting that qualification for other federal program$; such as Social Security and Food Stamp benefits, would not be tied tQ registration. The con- cept, Massa concluded, would require more pap_er work ·on financial aid forms for ·all in- dependent college students, delay receipt of monies needed to pay college bills, nd result in administr~tive burdens for the institutions. Intern programs with the ISC, according to Caruso, are available in public affairs, public policy, and public ad- ministration. Interns serve- as ISC representatives in the State Legislature. He encourages ·Union students to apply. Caruso, twenty-four, is a 1981 graduate of New.' York University with a Bachelor of Arts degree. received a copy of the federal regulations from the Depart- ment of .Education. It is already two and a half weeks into the co:mn'lent period. He said that he managed to. get a copy of the federal regulations because of his contacts. \What about the Financial Aid officer in a small college out in the woods who does not have as many con- tacts?\ asked Massa. ' The Department of Education is not only shortening the response period, but they are holding up the mailing of the regulations. Thus, the proposed legislation will not be subjected to much commentary. Bob Massa stated that, \usually 90 percent of proposed regulations will go through with little change when the final regulations are drawn.\ Even so, it seems that the Depart- ment -Of Education is railroading this law through. Bob Massa stated that action must.betaken; \Not only should letters be written to Congressmen, but this issue ne.eds the heavy full scale lobbying that the ISC (Independent Student Coalition) is capable of doing. Students should be angry that they are bejng discriminated against,\ said Massa.

- s dent ·uso, cost lege ') to )rity nted !llso. rent lidy .in- ~uso as eges .but ·sity san :her ;not it is tork v.ate [ing on's ~ere the iS in lege ~P), the >or- and •ans suit gto the 1urt nts. ' to tive ,uld in- lts, :ed. >sal ts \ .. for uch ood be uld ·on in- of . OONOOBDIEN'SIS, FebrtU;try 17,' 1983 Page 3 IF_C Outraged Over Greek .Housing Dispute By A. J. BRODSJ{Y Editor·iil.Chief \I am really coming to you owt of. desperation,\ began Inter-Fraternity Council rresident John Whe~Jlet. The problem at hand was negotiations, or rather l!.lck of negotiations . accf;)rding . to Wheeler, between the college and individually owned fraternity houses on campus. Apparently, the privately owned buildings need. to make repairs to comply with tbe fire and safety standards of the City of Schenectady. No small task, Wheeler estimates the costs of renovations to be between fifteen and thirty thousand dollars per fraternity. Failure . to meet the requirements will eventually result in the loss of fire insurance coverage, thus making the house officer and the college U~ble. Tile college propos.ed a \Privately-Owned Fraternity Houses Loan Progr-am\ to help rectify the situation. Few of the houses, if any, ·could finance the work on their own. Wheeler reports that the · college is willing · \to provide two dollars of college money for every one dollar we raise on our contribution basis. The required fraternity matching fund may therefore have to be obtained from other sources . . . b. Fire and liability :insurance will be required and the fraternities may have difficulty obtaining coverage . . . c. Exemption from city and county taxesca;mot be sought .. .. .. . 'Fbe sore point for Wbe.eler is the stipulation under Option 1 that the fraternity must give over the deed to the house in return for the loan. · ''This is the biggest problem; we would do the loan without giVing up the deed; tl\ey (the Administration) will not budge on this.'' · Wheeler stated that the- fraternities cannot even con~ sidel.' Option 2 because it offers no chance to raisethe necessary funds. Contributions would not be tax deductible because the houses would still be considered profit•making organizations. Tax-exemption status woUld be unavailable forcing the fraternities to continue payments to the city in exceas of four thousand dollars per year. Owned ... Loan Progr~\ .statement: \If the fraternities have moneyontheirown to meet that match requirement, that's all that's necessary - Option 2 is there; soine of the .fraternities know they do not have money and the only way they could come up with some money would be a good way of soliciting from the alumni and friends~ We also know from talking to many alumni · and friends that they would con• tribute if they can take that John Wheeler contribution as a tax deduc- tion.\ . Apparently, the College could not secure a non-profit status for the fraternities if theiCollege Continued· on page 4 Theives Strike By STEVE PIRAINO Staff During the past two months there have been a series of thefts in the Humanities Building. AlthoUgh most of these thefts have been petty, they have caused a great in- convenience to the division. Much of the material stolen possessed great intrinsic value and Will, regrettable, never be repl~ced. Accordin_g to Professor Ward, the Chairman of the Humanities division, \The problems started this sumtner when a master key was lost. Then there was a break-in right after finals last term, followed by another about two weeks ago. There has also been a curious rash of money disappearing.\ Apparently, during the first brea:kin, the thieves jumped from a library window onto the library's right colonnade leading to th,e office window of English Professor William Murphy. They climbed through the Qpen window and proceeded to steal his telephone as well as numerous poetry books which were locked in a poorly secured bookcase. This break-in was considered more of a prank when the books appeared in a box in a seminar room downstairs, soon after the incident. Presently, the English Department is taking inventory of their collection to see exactly how many poetry books are missing, if any. The second breakin was much more costly tban the first. This time, the thieves, leaving their footprints in the snow, broke the window and stole many valuable items. These items include ten fUms on video tape, at least four videotpaed lec- tures, and a fire extinguisher. Professor Harry Marten, head of the English Department, stated, \The material stolen was worth from $600 to $1,000.\ But he was more upset because the tapes were \great teaching tools.\ One of these tapes was of a great critic, ·K. Berk, who died soon after the lecture. Marten also observed that, ''The loss is annoying because we have no money to replace the stolen goods, although we are looking into insurance reim· bursement.\ There have also been at least . three incidents where money has been stolen from the division. The secretaries have had desks broken into and ·a bank fullof \coffee money\ was stolen. These thefts were all petty, but they were also \unfortunate according to Ward. He also stressed, \We don't keep money around any more. There's nothing of great value here.\ Ward concluded, \There are windows too easily accessible not to be made secure.\ And everyone involved hopes that a solution to this dilemma is soon achieved before more serious damage is done. \Giving up a deed for a loan and still having to pay back the loan (is questionable).; one of the things that really makes you angry about it is the fact the houses were constructed by the fraternities, with fraternity money,- and now they are going to be handed ·over because we are at a cash shortage,\ p.rotested Wheeler. Aid Plan Proposed Vice,President Havser own through alUlllliior however else we can do it.\ The IFC President sees this as favorable. The. money is in the form of a loa~ on. a floating-interest rate basiS. Two options were offered to the fraternities of Delta Phi, Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Phi, Alpha Delta Phi and Psi Upsilon under the program. From the loan agreement: Option 1 - The fraternity gives the house to the college and the ftaternity leases the house from the college. · Option 2 - The fraternity gives a first mortgage to the college for the term of. the loan. . Advantages to Option 1 were listed as follows by the ad- ministration: a. Gifts may be solicited and received by the College from alumni and friends, which gifts may be restricted for house improvements . . . Such tax deductible gifts may enable the fraternities to raise the required matcbing funds . . . b. The college can cover the house under the college fire and · liability insuranceif the college owns the hOuse . . . in certain cases, coverage may not be obtainable for individual fraternity houses . . . c. If the houses are ·owned by the college and operated as part ?f the college housing program, 1t may be possible to qualify them for tax exempt status . . . Wheeler considers· Option 1 \the only option that makes it worth it for the fraternity.\ Rather than advantages, '- disadvantages were listed for Option 2: · a. Gifts for house im· provements cannot be solicited or received ·on a- charitable · The Inter-Fraternity Coun- cil's ace up their sleeve is an attempt to contest their tax status in the courts. With a non- profit rating, the capital would be available for matching funds and a mortgage. The possibility of legal action is presently being examined by an attorney forthe IFC. Wheeler agrees that \it has to be done, there are some fire and safety hazards that have- to be taken care of, but the thing is if the school would just use the ·deed as collateral we would pave had these loans processed by this time . . . \ \They say they do not- want cQntro~ ,. ·but that's words and not writing.\ ·\But they (the Board of Trustees) are just playing a waiting game with us because they can outlast us,, adds the IFC President. Already, the fire insurance for the fraternity of Psi Upsilon has l'Uil out and a new policy could not be secured. \If people die, (the house officers) are the ones who are going to be sued,\ stated Wheeler. \Now.we cannot even get a lease guarantee that ·says- we will be in that house five years from now,\ claims Wheeler. He went on to say that under the proposal, the fraternity would be scrutinized yearly as to qualification for tenancy. \They say they do not want control, butthat's words ana not writing,'' added Wheeler. Vice President for Finance and Administration John Hauser stated, \First all, let me make this perfectly clear, it is not the college's intent to own any of the fraternities.\ Of concern to Hauser and therefore the college is the safety of the students. Hauser offered an explanation of the legaiese u.sed in the \Privately- (CPS)-Students' and educators' 'initial reactions to President Reagan's proposed federal college budget for 1984 is decidedly mixed, which, in comparison to last year's howls of protest, is an improvement. \This budget is somewhat of a good budget and bad badget,\ says American CouncU on Education spokesman Bob Aaron in a response typical of educators around the country. The good news, be says, is that the president asked for increased funding in some college areas. The bad news is that President Reagan would abolish three student aid programs which, Aaron says, are poor people's \education safety net.\ · Miriam Rosenberg, executive director of COPUS (Coalition of Independent College and University Students), a Washington, O;C. student lobby for private school students, also called the budget \good and bad.\ She, too, worries the president may be \cutting out a lot of low-income and middle- income people,\ but likes Reagan's plan to increase college work-study programs and raise the maximwn Pell Grant award from the current $1,800 to $3,000. But old protests die hard for some. Some have planned a reaction even before formally ass-essing the president's proposals. The U.S. Student Association (USSA), for one, is still \reviewing (the budget) now and coming up with a point-by- point analysis,\ says USSA Communications Directo.r Gwen McKinney. · But USSA, COPUS and the National Organization ~ Black University and College St,~dents have already planned to organize a rally against the budget on March 7, which is the annual National Student Lobby Day, McKinney prolllises. . The purpose of the rally is to show \Congress there is an active coalition out there.\ It'll be debating what is essentially \a restructuring\ of the federal student aid program, as U.S. Dept. of Education spokesman Duncan Helmrich calls it. Changing back from last year, · when he proposed abolishing three aid programs and cutting the remaining ones iQ half, President Reagan this year wants to: +Abolish the National Direct Student Loan (NDSL), State Student Incentive Grant (SSIG) and Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG) programs. + Replace them with a step- by-step process in which students would be asked to contribute a certain amoung toward their educations in return for a new Pell Self-Help Grant. .· + Ihtudents can't contribute enough from personal savings and Guaranteed Student Loans (GSLs) to get a SelfDHelp Grant, they . make up the remaining amount they need through College Work-study and Pell Grants. Under the plan, Helmrich says, Congress would raise the amount of federal money for the College Work-study and Pell Grant programs while holding GSL funds to last year's levels. At the same time, the President would also start an Education Savings Account, which would give people a tax incentive to save for college. It would work something like Individual Retirement Accounts. Helmrich says Pell Self~Help Grants would require the student to come up with at least 40 percent of the college cost through GSLs, savings accounts and money from the College VVork-8tudy program. \If more is needed,\ he says, \then the Pell Self-Help Grant steps in.\ To get one, the student's family will be expected. to contribute \based on the family taxable and non-taxable in- ~ome, liquid assets, federal tax paid and the number of people living at home.\ But students, lobbyists, legislative aides and financial aid officers worry the whole scheme is tenuous. Their major criticism is that it depends on students finding jobs in an extremely tight job market. ''Can College Work-Study create enough jobs?\ Aaron asks. \Can schools find jobs for students? Those students are going to be competing against full time people.\ Many schools in the past have employed work-study recipients themselves Under the program, the federal govermnent pays 80 percent of the salary, the em- ployer 20 percent. COPUS's Rosenberg doesn't think colleges, battered by devastating cuts in federal and state funding over the 1st few years, are going to be able to hire work-study students now. \Can schools afford to pay their required 20 percent'?\ she wonders. Moreover, \a student can only work so many hours and still be a student,\ she adds. Cutting the NDSL in addition \is going to put a hardship on us,\ says Dr. Graham Ireland, financial aid director of Westminster ((ollege in Penn- sylvania. \I am not happy about (Reagan) cutting th~ NDSL, SSIG and SEOG because students need the money,'' concurs Roland Carrillo, aid director at San Antonio Com~ munity College. The new budget's requirement to analyze students' financial needs \would have a serious impact on us,\ predicts Frank Mondragon of Berkeley's aid office. 11 We're talking about 5,000 to 6,000 students, and to do a needs analysis on all these students would put a great burden on us.\ Mondragon also frets that the elimination of NDSLs would leave grad students without aid at all. I

Page 4 CONOORDIENSIS, Februar.y 17, 1983 II Fraternity Housing = CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS Greeks Upset Continued from page 3 Options 1 and 2 are non- possessed just a mortgage on negotiable according to the Vice the houses. Ownership still President. \We don't have the legally falls in the hands· of the option if we wanted to,\ added debtor in the case of a lien. But, Hauser. ownership would be transferred ''I'm somewhat unhappy here in the event .of default of the as perhaps you can discern,\ loan. continued Hauser on the topic of As to the question of a lease across-the-table talks,\ Mr. guarantee, ''We are talking Wheeler has never chosen to sit about a lease agreement tied to down with me or even to call me the amount they are borrowing; '' if they want to borrow twenty John Wheeler reported that thousand dollars, a twentyQyear h~ approached .the Board of lease, as a starting point, could Trustees with the matter this be issued from that,\ stated past fall. \No he did not,\ Hauser. retorted the Vice President. Hauser added that it was not \He has never discussed this the college's intent to use a in any detail with the Board· of yearly lease review com- Trustees; he was at a meeting bination. \I am sure we would and it was not to discuss these consider an extended period of programs,\ added Hauser on titne, I think that our only the matter. criteria would be that (the The Vice President then fraternities) are. current in their qualified his remarks by stating debt repayment . . . that the that indeed, Wheeler put the house be maintained in a safe question to the Student Affairs and sound condition . . . and Committee but no discussion have a charter in good stan- was held. ding.\ At this point in time, the As for negotiations, Hauser matter is unsettled with the commented \that on certain future of several fraternities matters, yes, on certain other literally depending on renewed matters we feel very strongly.\ discussions. SOCIOLOGY 61 SPRING TERM 1 nternships in the Delive.ry of Social Services Intern at organizations like Human Services Planning Council, Urban Planning, WMHT-T.V., Childrens' Home and others. Contact Professor Weiner, 6004. York Exchange . Meet the deadline! Applications will be ac~epted until February 28 for the York Exchange. This program, inaugurated last fall, is one in which a small group of our . students .study in York while.the same number of York students come here for a fall term at Union. Students who go to York attend the same classes as the students ·there, and can select their courses from the general catalog. York is a city rtch in architectural and historical landmarks. The· program is open only to juniors and seniors. If you need more information· about this program, .please come to the Terms Abroad office. For other fall programs, please remember, the deadline for applying is February 21. Cartoon Contest Some student cartoonist or comic strip artist at Union College has a chancl! to win considerable fame, a little fortune, and even a contract with a national feature Synm dicate. All these are prizes in the 1983 Campus Cartoonist contest being conducted for student artists at every U. S. college and university. The sponsor is Tribune Company Sundicate, fourth largest in the U.S. It distributes comics, editorial cartoons, and other features to 2,000 newspapers across the U.S. and around the world. Each of the 10 winners will receive $500 plus a chance to qualify for a contract with the syndicate. Entries may consist of up to 12 comic strips, 12 editorial or humorous cartoon panels, or · both. The deadline for mailing is March 7 .. Entry requirements are a:vailable at the office of Concordtensls. The syndicate is looking for new talent, according to Robert S. Reed, its president. ''Bright creative talent, young men and women who well may be attending college somewhere today,'' he said, \can be the syndicate stars of tomorrow.'' The campus was the starting point for may of t9day's most famous cartoonists, Reed pointed out. Jeff MacNelly, creator of \Shoe\, started at the University of North Carolina, and Garry Trudeau's \Doonesbury\ was born when he attended Yale. Marine Biology How about two weeks (27 August-september 10) on a small archipelago nine miles out in the clean, clear waters of the Gulf of Maine? ijow about two weeks of rustic maritime accommodations and fine cuisine prepared by chefs of the Cornell Hotel School? How about studying marine biolo.gy in one of the finest un- dergraduate-oriented marine laboratories along the Eas~ Coast of North America and with all of this ready access to · feeding humpback whales, major breeding. islands of cormorant, gulls, harbor seals, ibis and egret? Union College students\ .of all disciplines have been doing this for a decade. receiving rigorous training and academic credit. If you· are interested in learning more, please come to an informational seminar at 4:30p.m. on Wednesday, March 2, Room S301, in the Center for Science and Engineering. · Warner Lambert An endowment of $150,000 was awarded t9 the MS program: at Union Cullege by the Warner Lambert Foundation. The MS, or Health Systems · Management, is one of two health and administration programs at Union; the other being the MBA, or Health Administration-program. According to Associate Professor Schneller, the director of the Health and Management Program. the .MS graduates about ten l:!tudent$ per year, The MS program works with co-operation bet- ween Union and the Albany College of Pharmacy. It is designed especially for people with undergraduate health degrees. The graduates of this program usually go on to find employment in hospitals, with the state, health planning agencies and pharmaceutical areas. The Warner Lambert Foundation offered this award in order to recognize the people in the health fields and bring them into management. ·The grant is an educational effort that bridges different parts of UnionUniversity and brings the College and Albany College of Pharmacy together. The area's o.ldest and largest computer dealer is now offering major discounts to students and faculty on selected computer equipment. By special arrangement with the l:fudson.:Mohawk Association of Colleges and Universities, the Computer Room is slashing 15 to 20% off list prices. to eligible college students, faculty and employees. For .. example, you can purchase the IBM personal computer at an unbeliev- · ab.le 20% off the list price! Or the popular Apple II+ personal computer with disk drive for 18% off the CHECK OUT THE CDM.PUTER RDDM TDDAY / list price. BRIND YOUR I.D. Students will be asked to provide proof of enrollment from their · universi1y or college. Faculty will be asked to show Or) I.D. Students and faculty are required to identify themselves to the store manager prior to shopping in order to purchase under this plan. All sales will b.e by cdsh, bank check orcertified check atthe time the equipment Is picked up. Credit cards will not be accepted .. Check out our entire list of specially priced computers and equipment today. The friendly experts at .the Computer Room will analyze your needs and suggest the system that's right for you- at a price you can afford. The area's oldest and largest computer de~ler THE COMPUTER ROOM . capital District: 1492 Central Avenue, Colonie. (518) 869·3818 Glens Falls: 28 Ridge Street • (518) 798-1446 - ]

- - an lis us ~t. in to at ch or as at er s, lS V'O m er th te 1e ld lS t$ tn it- lY is le :h is ld th tg al rt ·d le tg te rt )f te >f OONOORDIENSIS, Feb'T'Uarry 17, 1983 Page 5 . I .. Profile: Jared Squires By JOYC&TE·lTELBAUM and SHERRY WEITZEN overcrowded c8nditions in Japan. ''ln · America, we are very individualistic. We feel at home in our toom -come to illY ro01n. In Japan •. ;because the house iS so very crowded,.. one room tluring th~ day is the dining room, people eat their lunch and dinner there, and at night the table and chairs are moved off to toe side and out come the foot-ems, which ate Japanese mats. They do everything together.\ . the Japane~e and punishments are severe. All in ali, Squires found his contact with Japan and its people a very broadening and rewarding experien(!e. Anyone who is interested in the program or merely wants in- formation,. can speak to ~ither Professor Thurston of the History . J)epartment or . can contact Jared Squires, Box 913 or at Phi Gairuna Delta. Junior Jared Squires $pent fall term in Japan This week's profile spotlights Jared Squire.s and his uni9ue experiences m Japan. Sqwres has resided in the S~henectady area for most of hiS life, but had the rare opportunity to visit Japan four years ago . when General Electric transferred nis step-father to Tokyo. The Japanese people and. their culture left. a marked im- pression on him; so much that Jared returned to Japan for four and a half months last term. A managerial econoQlics major, Squires is· incorporating much of the knowledge and experience · he a.cquir.ed -in Japan into his thesis~. The program he participated in is not affiliated with Union per se; howevel', full academic credit can be obtained. The Qther significant point of variance is tbe fact that Japan is a highly ranked society. This is especiallY true in the realnl of in.dustry·; where Japan main- tams a policy of lifetime em- ployment. It is conceivable that a person working for a major industry could remain in the same station without worrying about losin~ his job or being · forced to retire. The workers Eilso have a great deal of respect for their immediate superiors. There is no class cleavage, i.e. management vs. bibor, as there is in the United States. This ''work effort\ philosophy is interr~lated with tile · group effort ideology. \Everybody sacrifices for the group, so that the products are the best Students Fast For Ideals According to Squires, the program was comprised of two significant features; the first being the actual ad:ad'emic portion of the trip. He attended the Kansai University of Foreign Studies which is located in Osaka. It specializes in teaching foreign languages to the Japanese,. and conversely, instructs Americans in in- tensive studies of the culture, history and language of Japan. Squires felt that this in-depth and rigorous prpgram is so effective because ''(you are) there li:ving and talking every day with Japanese students, you are interacting with young people and finding out what the culture is like.\ throughout the world.'': . The .perquisites offered to the workers •by the company also simulate a \family like\ at- mosphere. Squires cited some examples from Matsutehita, the company where he .has a summer job. The company has its own dormitory to provide· a relatively. .inexpensive and ''hospitable'' place to live. Each company has its own resorts artd offers employee vacation . packages at one-third of. the r.egular cost. Japanese 'workers even play a part in the decisi<m- making process. (CPS) ~ They didn't get . everything they wanted, but a six-day hunger strike by six Williams College . students \ended up in a victory for the students,\ contends Dwnisani Kumalo of the American Committee on Africa, which helps organize U. S. protests against racial segregation in South Africa. ' The students., who began their hunger strike in the college's administration building January . 21, had demanded Williams sell stock it owns in 15 .firms that do business in South Africa and pull its deposits from banks that make loans to the white supremacist regime. They alSo- wanted to change the ways members were chosen for the campus conunittee that monitors the college's in- vestments, and meet with the trustees to discuss divestiture again, college spokesman Ray Boyer. says. After six days of refusing to eat, the students called off the strike when they got a meeting, pr()mises .from the trustees to restructure the monitoring -- committee, and a committee pledge to \accelerate the in- vestigation of the companies\ with ties to the South African government, Kumalo says. Kumalo says the trustees previously \wouldn't even allow for this issue to be aired.\ , . However, the Williams trustees didsell$1 million worth of stock in 1980, and had· met with 200 students in mid· January. The mid-January meeting followed what Bswer called ''extremely well- or.ganizedtf , campus rallies against continued Williams investment in the la companies. But Williams' trustees' response apparently wasn't fast enough. \In the past, more moderate action has been taken,'' · Williams hunger striker Mark White told the Harvard Crimson, \but that has not brought about effective results . .._. White and five others oc- cupied a classroom in the ad- ministration building by night, but cleared out to make way for classes during the days. \We could take the more militant approach, like taking over the president's office, but the bes.t way is passive resistance,\ White added. Other schools have recently moved on the issue without as much prodding. Most recently, the Michigan legislature passed a law forcing all state educational institutions to stop investing in companies that do business in South Africa. The company that. owns the campus paper at the University of Illinois also changed its in- vestment policy to avoid firms with South African ties: Stan- ford loosened its rules to allow v.oting on \social concern\ proxies at annual meetings of corporations in which it has a financial stake. Sometimes there's backsliding.· UCLA's student government was still depositing funds in banks that loan money to South Africa two years after voting to withdraw the funds. And in the seven months since Minnesota's regents decided to limit investments in companies . with South African operations, the university has invested in four such companies. University assistant manager Roger Paschke says that's an improvement, however, over previous practices of buying \those kinds of stocks at least twice a month.\ Kumalo expects anti- apartheid campus activity to pick up soon. \Nothing happens in the winter,\ he says . He expects more protest \around April.\ To facilitate that, his group has begun cir- culating borchures tying anti- apartheid efforts to the nuclear freeze movement. The brochure features a mushroom cloud superimposed over a map of Africa, and urges readers to \Stop the Apartheid Bomb.\ The second aspect of the program encompasses living with a Japanese family. Squires was enthusiastic about this because it afforded him an even greater opportunity to familiarize himself with the customs of the Japanese people .. He explained that it was not merely a question of having a roof over one's head, but being incorporated into the family unit. Squires took meal:s with the family and conversed with them in an effort to com- municate his Western ways and to acquire a greater un- derstanding of the society that intrigy_es him .so much. From observations Squires made during hi~ stay in Japan, he has concluded· that the so- called younger generation is veering away from many of the traditional Japanese customs. The teenagers a.nd l':Oung adults appear_ to have a great in- fatuation for some of the aspects of the Western culture. They have -adapted the dress code .of blue jeans and tee- shirts, complete with slogans. \They might not even un- derstand what it (the slogan) means, but they wear it because it is English,\ Squires com- mented. As for the Japanese drinking policy, teens generally do not drink before they are 20 Academic Affairs Council Squires cited two ~valuations Proposed predominant cultural dif- ference~ between the Japanese and Western societies. He perceives a much' greater emphasis on group con- sciousness in Japan than there is in the United States. He stated that he believes this is probably the result of the By SCOTT COLLINS and new courses. Staff This suggestion calls for an Berger initiated this idea in order to further open the lines of communication between students and faculty. · years old, which is the legal age for drinking. Drugs, especially,. marijuana, are not condoned by At a recent meeting of the Academic Affairs Council, student representative Jeff Berger recommended a proposal calling for mid-term evaluations of new instructors - The Social Committee Presents: WINTER CA·RNIVAL '83 Events-: Friday, Feb. 25 at 4 p.m. ALL CAMPUS RELAY RACE 6-10 member teams; indoor and outdoor events. Prizes for Wlnning Teams! Saturday, Feb. 26 .. · SKI TRIP toMT. SNOW, VT. Sunday, Feb. 27 SNOW SCULPTURES Judging at 3 p.m.-· · Prizes for Best Sculptur~! Start Forming -Your Teams! For details contact your R.A. or Dave 372·6332-or Jeannine 374-3243 appraisal in the form of an anonyrnc;ms questionaire to be handed o1,1t in the- fifth week to students attending classes that are either new in the curriculum or have junior faculty instructing them. This would provide the instructor with some feedback from the class allowing him-her to make any necessary changes. These evaluations would only be seen by the professor, not by the department heads or other faculty. _ If taken seriously by students and faculty, it is suggested that these assessments may be very productive-and rewarding to the educational experience~ It ·was ~lso stressed that these be kept anonymous, thus reducing the amount of any bias. After continuously hearing students complain about their courses without taking any action, A negative position for such a proposal lies in the fact that a negative evaluation may cause an instr1,1ctor to retaliate against an individual. or class as a whole. Overall though, it is seen as a good idea. When asked about giving these evaluations out in all classes no matter who the in- structor is, Berger commented that this may be difficult to do because tenured faculty may not feel the ·need to change. I.f this were at . all possible to achieve, he added that he would be all for it, but the current proposal does not call for it. The AAC was \generally\ in accord with this idea and has forwarded it to Tiene Kaplan, Dean of Faculty, f-or her formal consideration. Anyone Interested in APP.Iying for the Freshman Record Committee, Please Contact-Jane, Wood, Student Affairs Office, Carnegie ~all, Extension 6061.

. ' Page 6 OONCORDiENSIS, Fe:b!J\UU 17~. 1983 ,. FEATURES Humor ''Telephone Fun'' I Computer· Graphics l Thomas Banchoff will l)e presenting some of his com- puter-animated. films on Monday, February 21 at 3:30 p.m. in SS 016. Computer animation is responsible for much of the .special effects in movies such as Star Wars and Star Trek ii: Tbe Wrath ·Of Kahn. Walt Disney's Tron ·was an entire movie :based on the latest computer graphics, which was its sole attraction. Computer gr~phics are what make video ga.mes like \Za101;on\ and ''Tank Com- mandey'.' . ultr~;t .sophisticated. which will enable filmmakers to do more. Although Banchoff will not be showing such scenes as a planet exploding or an intergalactic battle, cautions Zimmerman, what will be shown is ''Very pretty. I thilik even. the non- mathmaticaUy inclined wiU enjoy the presentation.\ The presentation, which is entitled \The 4th Dimension and Compute r Ani m ate d Geometry,\ is designed for those with little or no un. der,standing of computers. By MATI' NANKIN Staff The .following editorial was aired this. past Sunday evening on the 6:15 WRUC News. It Is printed here in its entirety. It'.s .a cold winter night in Schenectady and everyone in your dorm Is asleep. You wander around your floor looking for something to do or someone to talk to. Domino's is closed so it is too late to send a p~a to the maid's closet. Furthermore, every pen on every memo board is eithet missing or out of ink. Surely there must be some outlet for the more creative minds on campus. Fear not, my friends, there is no reason to be bored late at night any more! Following is a step-by-step plan that is guaranteed to bring enjoyment at anytime of the day or night. The Nankin Telephone Nuisance Directive (or how to be obnoxious and not bother anyone that really matters). 1.) Look on page 18 of the Schenectady telephone book and find the area code of a section of the country which you are particularly interested in or would. like to visit. My personal favorites are 213 (Los Angeles), 919 (North Carolina), and 312 (Chicago). 2.) Go to the nearest pay telephone in your dorm - preferably one which supplies an automatic dial tone. 3.) Lift the receiver off the hook and dial 0 (zero), then one of your favorite area codes, and finalfy a seven-digit number that may be selected at random. 4.) When the operator comes on the line, make up a name such as Jim, Ted, Rip, Bob, or Marci, and tell her that you would like to make a collect phone call. 5.) Now for the difficult part. When the phone is eventually answered on the other end, one of three things rnay happen. · a. The person flatly denies the charges -in thiS case it may be necessary to make a remark to the operator such as ''I guess she doesn't want me anymore\ or \I better call back when my father is in a better mood.\ b. The person accepts the charges- in this circumstance it is necessary to become an in~ stant friend of the individual who you have just c~lled by asking about the weather, sports, their part of the country, and other neutral topics. Always remember to begin the conversation by thanking them for accepting the charges. If you really want to \grux\ the person, tell them you're doing a psychological experiment to find out how many people will accept the charges from a total stranger. Then you can begin asking them personal questions about themselves. Whatever happens, don't be obnoxious! Remember: the longer you keep the other person on the line, the more the call will eventually cost them and operator-assisted calls are very expensive. l\{y own personal record is 37 minutes that I spent talking to an elderly woman in a retirement village outside Phoenix, Arizona (Area code 602). I would have been on the phone longer, but her hearing aid gave out and she eventually realli:ed I wasn't her middle- aged son whom she never hears from. c. The person starts asking nosy questions, such as \What number are . you trying to reach?\ or \Who did you want to speak to?\ in which case you vehemently insist that you do have the right number and that this is the correct party whom you have called. Let me conclude this article with two very important notes: Note 1: This is NOT illegal. If the individuals called are stupid enough to accept the charges, then that is their prerogative. · However, do not call the same individual more than once. Our aitn 'is to have fun, at the ex- pense of others, not to harrass them. Note 2: Don't be diScouraged by numbers that are not in service at the present time. Just remember to try, try again. -This is Matt Nankin with one man's opinion. Editor's Note: The Views and suggestions put forth by MJ;. NaDkin .in tbls .editorial do not necessarily represent those of WRUC, Concordlensis, or Chocolate Thunder. P.S. For more information and more detailed information on ~' \Telephone Fun,'' contact Matt by Campus Mail, Box'.0054. • I P.P.S. Due to circumstances beyond Matt's control, he is no longer allowed to make ''an· nouneements\ before Film Committee movies. (See Jetter on page 9 of the February 3 Concordfensis, \Self-Control Urged.\) For further ··· in· formation, listen to the WRUC 6':15 News next Sunday. Branchoff's work goes beyond that, according to Associate Professor of Mathmatics William Zwicker. \It's not a game,\ Zwicl.ter said, \it's better.'' In fact, Banchoff, a Professor of Mathmatics at Brown University, has been doing more, going . where no man and computer have gone befor~. Banchoff's work is the · beginning of a new revolution, said Assistant Professor of Mathmatics Karl Zimmerman, p CanadtaD' l .' '. (; ·.;.-·· . . ~<. . .. ·-·,,. There will also be a second, more technical, · talk entitled \Computet Arliniation and the Geometry of Surfaces in 3 and 4 Space\ at 8 p.m. in SS 117, which is offered in conjunction with the Junior-Senior Seminar in Mathematics: Professor Banchoff's talks are being co .. sponsored by the Departments of Arts, Computer Science-Electrical Engineer· ing, and Mat:tunatics, as well as by the Sloan Foundation. The public is welcome to both talks. AVAILABLE AT THE DUTCH.HOLLOW PUB The finest ale brewed and bottled in Canada. Imported by Martletlrnporting C~., Inc.; Great Neck,·N.Y. © .l982:

- ersto lOt be 1lanet lactic man, 'Very non- will The titled and rte d for un. ~ond, titled l the U'ld4 117,. ction ninar talks r the luter teer- !llas The alks. ... :.:: OONOORDIENSIS, F.ebruary 1'1, 1983 Page7 Humor Ouf To Lunch BY TED KENDRIS Staff lunch. FFom what I could' read with the terrible handwriting, it seems there Will be: Turdkey sandwich-! don't even want to think about this one. . . - - - FEATURES The new menu for the cafeteria iri West College is expected to be releas-=:d . soo~. This .reporter, followmg h1s investigative .instincts, gained access to the unedited, hastily scribbled, version of the menu while it was still in the printer's of£ice. This may seem unethical to some, however, it was done with the · authorization ... of Herman ·Birdbath, who said it would be \Okay..\'But don't get caught and don't mention tne unless you. succeed.\ Cream of washroom. soup- This sounds like it will leave a nice clean taste m the mouth. Dinner: The dinner has a few· minor innovations, too: The .first site of the Dudley Observatory was located in ·North Alba~:y in 1~5?. In th~ 1880's train t:acks -yvere placed .nearby and each Ume trains went by the observatory s sens,, t1ve equ1pment was disturbed. Beef rag goo-I hope they go back to the old way and take the beef rag out. Dudley Observatory- I looked over the :menu and it seems .preity good. I'll give you a few of the new and different dishes I say and a short description of what I expect each to be like. Chicken chow vein--This~ dish will probably take a lot less time to prepare since the chicken won't be killed or cleaned. Looking To The Stars Breakfast: There will be the usual juice, milk and coffee. There will, however, be some new main dishes: Eggs to order--This one isn't spelled correctly on the menu, -but I expect a very ap- petizing aroma. Baffles-! guess even Food Service doesn't know what to call this. I expect it to replace the waffles. Cap'n Crutch-This seems to be a new cereal product. I suppose the box will have a .picture of the typical peg-legged sea captain. Lunch: There were just a couple of changes I noticed .for \ Veal harmesan--Don't worry. It's probab~y not as bad as it sounds. Sleazy spinach squares- Popeye's favorite. Dessert~: Mint chocolate chit ice eream-I wonder what those little brown tbings are. Gutterscotch pudding-The coloring should be very inviting. . I hope you appreciate this chance I have given you to see the upcoming menu. Don't try to -sneak too much out of the cafeteria .. Happy eating! · mnton ·~olltgt ,• ~atultp (:.olloquium JJnaugural ~bbrt~s ~ C.W.ILLIAM HUNTLEY GILBERT R. LIV·I NGSTON PROFESSOR of PSYCHOLOGY STUDENT VALUES REVISITED TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22at4:30 P.M. 55016 COFFEE & TEA AT 4:00P.M. ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND 8y DAVE FITZGERAlD Staff Editor's Note: This is the first •of a tw~part series on Union's historic -Dudley Observatory. One of the five institutions of Union University, of which Union Coll~ge is a member,. is the Dudley Observatory. Chartered by the State of New York in 1852, the Dudley Observatory is one of the finest observatories in the United States. Since 1852, the ob- servatory has gone through many phases, some of which have not only been important to the observatory but also to astronomical research. This week. a look at the \early years\ of the observatory . The first site for the Dudley Observatory was on the north end of Albany. As the years passed this location became less than perfect. Train tracks were placed in a vicinity close Come Dance Away Your Troubles at the WRUC ·RECORD HOP in the PUB every Thursday night D'ELTACHI'S 4thAnnua~ MOLSON PARTY Frid.ay, February 18 10:00 p.m. ·Red and Gold Ale JbottlesforONLY$1.00 Shoes, Shi_rt and I. D. required to the observatory. The movement of the trains passing by caused. the sensitive equipment of the observatory to be disturbed. Although the locatien was not the best, the scientists at the observatory were able to discover a new asteroid named \Pandora:.\ · On November 18, 1893, the Dudley Observatory had the official opening of its second site which was a safe distance away from train tracks. The new site also had a more ad- vanced telescope than the previous one. With the new equipment many asteroids were discovered and observed. One of the asteroids discovered was later named \Chaldea.\ In 1876 Professor Lewis Boss was named Director of the observatory. His largest un- dertaking during his direc- torship was the formation of the General Catalogue. For an observatory of its size and financial position, such an undertaking was a brave move. The amount of time and resources needed to develop a catalog of all the stars and their positions, in the past and the future, were, if you will, astronomical. Professor Boss sought the . financial aid of the Carnegie Institution of Washington to finance his project. With proper financing the task of viewing each star and constallation could be undertaken a number of times to get the most ac- curate findings. It should be noted that this was not going to be a catalog of one or two stars, it was a study of 33;342 stars. The operation of the ob- servatory at Albany was not only respected for its study, but also for its equipment. An ob- servatory modeled after Dudley was established at San Luis in Argentina. Each aspect of the Albany . observatory was duplicated in Argentina, not oilly because of the great work done in Albany, but also so that the research being done in Albany could be duplicated in Argentina. Work continued in both Albany and San Luis for a number of years. It was not until 1937 that the General Catplogue of 33,342 Stars was published. As you can probably assume, it was a !'~ther large piece of written work. In fact, it came in a five volume set. Volume one contained the history of the project and how the study was conducted. The other four volumes contained the positions and motions of the stars for the year 1950, together with data and formulas required to carry the positions forward arid backward from 1950. The early period of the ob- servatory saw the building of not one but two observatory sites, as well as the overseeing of a site in South America. Then the r.emainder of the period was consumed by the taking on of a major scientific study. Next week's article will deal with the Dudley Observatory in more recent times and what it is doing today. Nuclear Disarmament By MIKE E. FACTOR During the past several weeks a new group has emerged on campus, · United Campuses to Prevent • Nuclear War. The organization's aim is to educate the campus community about the arms race and to inform politicians .of its concerns. They advocate a bilateral nuclear , freeze. However, .members hold a wide range of views on- the issue of nuclear disarmament. United Campuses to Prevent Nuclear War will be sponsoring information tables, movies, speakers, and other events to bring this issue to campus. Tonight they are sponsoring two short movies, War Without Winners and Hiroshima and Nagasaki. War Without Win· ners features citizens of the two superpowers discussing their fears and anxieties about a potential nuclear holocaust. Using actual film clips, Hiroshima and Nagasaki is a powerful portrayal of the ef~ fects of a nuclear explosion. These movies will be shown in SS 016 at 8 p.m. Admission is free, and all are welcome. Regular meetings are held Wedhesday nights at 9 p.m. in the 4th floor lounge in Carnegie. All are urged to attend, to get involved, a,nd to let your Views be heard. STUDENTS FOR ISRAEL' presents: The ls.raeli ~~west Side Story/' This film deals with the conflict bet- ween Jews of different backgrounds, and cultures in Israel.· Israeli felafel will be served before and after the show. Admission is free! Sun. evening, Feb. 20 7: 00, Strauss Lounge Everyone is welcome!

Page 8 OQNOORDIE:NSIS, February 1i, 198:1 FEATURES ''U·. ' · ·L · · · · '· '' . n1on · a~poone • :~ . ' . By LESUE RJru'BIN Staff· Beginning spring term Unton College wrll 'have its own humor magazine, the \Union Lam• poone.'' Curtis \Rock\ Sliwa, the head of the Guardian -Angels, will be speaking in Memorial Cilapel, Friday, February 2S. According to Co-Editor Paul Ginsberg, last year's parody issue • of the Conco!1d.fe.nsfs '' e\hibited to the campus a real need for a satirlctl pllblication, and the LamP4Jone will serve as an outlet for the energies that were expended in writiJlg the parody issue of the Concordy, - an episode that caused a lot of Curtis Sliwa: flack since it wasn't legitimately done!' Vigilante or Her~? Ginsberg and Co-Edito·r Larry Deutsch decided to create a hUlllor magazine based on satire and parody, ·but they did it legitimately. The con~ stitution for the Lampoone was approved as was its funding. By NORMAN BmNBACH Features-Editor Curtis Sliwa, who will be speaking at Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. next Friday, began his -career as a public hero in 1971. He pulled three people out of a burning building. Sliwa was fifteen at the time. For that single act of bravery, Sliwa was commended by the City of New York by the command of former Mayor J olm Lindsey. Two months later, by order of the late Nelson Rockefeller, the State of New York gave Sliwa its Highest Achievement Award. Six months after that, former President Richat\d Nixon again praised Sliwa, naming him \National Newsboy of the Year.\ That's pretty good,,for a fifa teen year old. Yet all those awards bring with them some questions. In one part of the press release, the burning building in question· burnt in 1970 with three sur- vivors. Yet, in another section, the building had . seven sur- vivors and burnt in 1971. So. Either that was a very long fire- -and all that time enabled him to find the four extra people-or someone isn't telling the truth. Mter 1971 until 1977, Sliwa won only two awards. In 1978, Sliwa was commended by the Bronx County Chamber of Commerce, the F'Ordham Road Businessmen's Club., the Fordham-Bedford Park CiVic Award, and by Bronx Borough President. All that in three months. Not bad. June, 1978, was a good month-even by Sliwa's standards. In June, Sliwa won three awards. In 1978, the only bad months were April and September. This is not to deny that Sliwa has done good. In February, 1979, he formed the Magnificent . . . . . . . . ·.; . :• . : 13, a group of friends who voluntarily rode the subways unarmed, in order to make- the subways safe. In September, the Magnificent 13 changed its name to the Guardian· Angels, and grew in size. Their presence on subways probably has deterred crime. The Angels claimed to have made 92 citizen's arr.ests, yet could not produce any corroborating evidence. Sliwa has done good. But the question remains: Is he better at getting good publicity? Ginsberg says that funding went as well as could be ex:~ pected.. \The Student Forwn and the Budget Committeewere very cooperative. I think they recognized the need for a satirical publication, or any other publicatiQn heside.s Concordy,I4lol, and The Garnet Review.\ Ginsberg thinks, however, that the ~oney the Lampoone Graduate Programs By EMILY LOOSE SWI While most Union stduents think. of thir school only as a small undergraduate in- stitution, Union has been steadily spreading · its reputation both nationally and internationally_through several graduate programs. Union's Graduate Studies office under the direction of Dean Aaron Feinsot has within the past year developed several new short courses for already practicing engineers. These courses held last February and March in Orlando, FL over several three- day weekends, attracted a healthy enrollment and dealt with new highly advanced engineering technology. The faculty for these courses are hired from other schools; such as M.I.T., by Union. Because of the enthusiastic support of the professional community, two new three-day courses are being offered, once again in Orlando, this February 21-23. One course will deal with Applied Vibration Engineering and the other with Rotor Dynamics. An evel}. more far reaching new program laun- ched by Graduate Stt1dies this November is the International Mooal Analysis Conference. This conference was the first official gathering of engineers involved in Modal or the study of vibrati<Jns, a growing field of research in engineering. Also held in Orlando, the. conference attracted the attention both national and international of 463 engmeers from industry, uni~ersities, and research laboratories. Engineers came from China, Japan, France, Sweden, ·the United Kingdom, and several other Eur()pean nations. As aresult of this great success~ an international society for the advancement of Modal Analysis has been for- med and Dean Feinsot ap- pointed as one of its directors. A second International Conference will be sponsored by Union in February of 1984, and periodic conferences are to follow. lt is with programs of such widesptead attention that the Graduate Studies office has been extending Union's in- fluence and rep11tation beyond the narrow confines of this small campus and even beyond , · the Northeast-reaJ}y around the world. late nite lites Get Your Just Desserts! LateNite Bites' Test balloon will be in flight! Saturday~ Feb. 19. · 9:o.o p.m.-l:30.a.m. Sunday, Feb. 20 s·:JO p.m.-12-:30 a.m. Special Coffees and Teas received is somewhat probationafy. · \The- Student Forum and the Budget Com .. mittee had faith in us- and they said, 'Here is. a thousand. dollars, now produce·.' If we do a quality job and we become an institution we will receive funding. to put otit an ~sue three times a year. This is really the make or break point.\ ,As for the content of the magazine, Ginsberg says that there wlll probably be one or two feature length articles, along with fake news, fake :ads,, . letters to the editor, and eventually some parody inserts of school publications. The Lampoone, whose fitst issue Ginsberg and Deutsch expect to put out early spring term, is accepting copy from _staff and anyone else who would like to submit a short piece of satirical work. Earlier this year there were announcements concerning the organization of the magazine's staff. Two meetings resulted in a staff of about 20. According to Gin- sberg, although there wasn't an overwhelming response at .first -to the magazine, the staff hasn't lost anyone from the first meeting. Ginsberg also en• Atthe · courages. anyone interested to become a Staff member. . Gin~berg says the Lampoone hopes to Pe selective about what it prints. He feels that there are a .lot of tafented _ people. on campus, so the. magazine won't have. to worry about gettmg quality satire. The UniQn Liunpoone ~is acc~pting material until February ~. Articles can be sent to ·Paul · Ginsberg's box,. 1451,. or LarrY Deutsch's box, 0009, . ' · As of now the editing staf£ consists of Ginsberg and Deutsch, as. co-editors in chief, Mark Cioni as ·copy editor, Faith Dunn as layout eidtor, and Tom Qampbell as managing editor .. Although the Lampo one, will deal with campus issues, its scope will also encompass national and international news. After the first issue the Lampoone staff hopes to give each issue a theme. ~t the inoinent though, Ginsberg feels that the magazine's .goal fs survival ~·some colleges can put out five or t~n student publicationJI. There is just a need for another, forum of student expression. Hopefully, we Will fill it.\· - ; - I , CAREER CENTER: Second Jnterview: The Site Visit February 23,1 :30p.m.,CareerCenter (Pieasesign.up in advan<;:e at the Career Center)' Af,ter an on-campus/screening iilterV.it~w, what's next? How _ much preparation is ·require_d for an ali-day .company visit] . ·. . Learn .the expectations of the site visit from trav~t,:.: arrangements to follow-~p activiti.es. D,yn't miss this on~_.,; time presentation! ·I TALl A Pizzeria-& Restaurant Subs, Pasta, Calzone, Pizza, and Hot Sandwiches 1617 Union Street , or CaH 37 4-4623 · FR.EE DELIVERY!! 6, 8, 12.or 24 cut pizza Thin and Thick crust'available Where you save 20- soo/a Daily on Jr. and Misses Nationally Branded fashions ... OW SAVE EVEN MORE! r--- ------ ..... - ..... -·- --- ~ ~- -....._--- ~- ~- -. '·';;,;....,.. !$5.00 Off •• 1· ANY PAl R OF __ . .r;.;. · .. ':;:.;_..,..: JOR~~e® I I I I I I I I .I I I I I I I I I I .I I or Calvin Klein Jeans When you present thls ·coupon • Offer expires2/26/83 • Limit: 2pai.r per coupon • srm'_Qpon per pair- Next to Northeast Savings . soasta,t.e Street • Schen~ctadY . ~PEN: MOn;·S.at. 10·6, Thul\s 10-9 ·~ i I I I I I I. I I I I I

to ~y ' ~f. e .. OONOORDIENSIS, Feb-'Y\Uary t'i, 198$ Page 9 . Jln lnvi'tation Oo Visit .... -- .• • .. ·ur 0 : . . ' .. :J?y ahornton WilJer . :~ \\ ., -~ . ·l • ' .. ; . ' -· . . ... : ., .... ,• ' . • • t ~ ... 8 :pm -, :R$'V:P: Nott Jvlemorial aheater .,_ ( ' ' \ ' ' . . \ fl be Q Uti f u)l y e ~ G C a fiVe p {a -y ~ Jl h aU n t i n 8[ y 6 ~aU t if U l p laY \ / New YoJtk. Tim~ p R E S E N T E V B Y T H E U N I 0 N C 0 L L E G E V E P A R T M E N T 0 F T H E A R T S

Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS, Fe.bruary 11, 198~ Founded at Union Colleg~ 1877 . --~--~---- ~--------~ Demo-what? . Public Law 97-252 is an insulting piec.e of legislation. · Calling for students above . the age of 18 to register with the Selective Service in order to be eligible for financlal aid i~:J both an administrative and ethical outrage. To add insult to injury, the legislation . was rammed down our throats by circumventing proper c·hanriels and ignoring standard procedures. For an Administration striving to get government \off our backs,\ Reagan and his cronies are doing a fine example of· just the opposite. Instead of streamlining the bureaucracy and eliminating waste a la Campaign '80, procedural requirements will cause tons upon tons of paperwork and simple aggravation, Placing the responsibility of enforcement of Federal statute upon the shoulders of financial aid officers is at best s.hirking Executive responsibility, at worst cowardly. The constitutionality of Public Law 97-252 is most questionable. Singling out the student population in order to punish twice-over a minority of offenders is discriminatory. Congress ·has chosen to attack, intelligently enough, the best and brightest, We must respond with the same efficiency as Congressman Gerald Soloman's deft political maneuvers. Voice your opinion while the government still resembles a representative democracy. Stalemate The Inter- Fraternity Council is rightfully upset when its members have no recourse· but to accept Option 1 of the ''Privately-Owned Fraternity Houses Loan Program\ without discussion. The College feels that it is doing no wrong by st~ding by its initial proposal, seen as beneficial to all concerns. The impasse is unfortunate for the community and unnecessary. The improvements of the fraternities in question are wanted and deemed imperative by both parties. How the fire and safety requirements are satisfied and financed cause emotions to heat up and blood pressure to rise. It is a case of mutual aims and divergent methods. The solution is nothing new in the world of negotiations--just simple and honest communication. At this eleventh hour, both parties need to sit across a table and shout at each other. The College would be in the wrong by neglecting sincere bargaining as the fraternities' backs are against the wall. This type of strong-arm tactic is suitable for a ruling Latin America junta, not an educational institution. As for the injured members of the IFC, a willingness to listen must accompany them as they sit down at the table. · Urban Blight Our winter crime spree continues. So-called petty criminals have again ripped the College off for more than six hundred dollars. Shall we enlist the aid of our spotlight speaker next week, Curtis \Rock\ Sliwa of Guardian Angel fame? · Swarms of tee-shirted, red bereted crimefighters could wander the campus at all hours of the night accosting strange and suspicious persons. Perpetrators could be subjected to trials by ordeal to ensure truthfulness and justice administered mercilessly. In light of the present situation, this vigilante approach seems not so far-fetched. It is painfully apparent that present security proGedures are inadequate. Before we act, is it absolutely necessary for something of priceless value to be stolen? Yes, the poor economy is responsible for the higher incidence of desperados. Perhaps· it would be in our better interest to ·get this element off the street, into uniforms and protecting their former haunting grounds. . First small-time theft, then possible rape, what are we allowing to happen to our community? The terrors of urban life are slowly c.reeping into our pastoral existence. Superman, where are you when we need you? Flower Sale A S:uccess An Open Letter to 'the Union College Community: As a part of ow annual fun- draising drive, the Union College Circle K Club ran the fifth annual Vale11tine's Day Flower Sale earlier this week. We would like to thank aU th0$e · who ~upported us and made this . event a success . Vn~ortunately, we have learned that some .flowers. were . stolen before the recipients returned to their rooms. We are ·outraged. that· Union College students would resort to these actions and can only hope that such- .behavior will not be repeated in the future. Rachel Cohen Liza J. Voris C-Chairmen, U.C~C.K. Flower Sale Committee About The Activity Fee Dear Editor, This letter is in reference to an article which appeared in last week's Cl)ncordiensls. The subject of the st<lry was the proposed ·increase in the student activities fee. We are firmly against such a move. The present monetary crisis which plagues ·the Finane.__e Committee was a .result of poor planning and mismanagement, not a lack of assets. When dealing out the appropriate moilie& for the various organizations, proper ac- counting procedures should be followed: 11hemaklng of a list of the' various· clubs, ascertaining if these clubs have submitted budgets, the dealing out the funds, with a reserve fimd remaining. When. g()ing aboutthis.process \ultilnattttns\ should be iSsued. to each organizational head. Eitbertheir.budget is submitted by a certain date, or theY will receive no money. A . .second, even tllird warning should be given. If no budget is submitted, then no money is to be allocated. This procedure will now make the Finance Com- mittee fully aware of whom to. deal money to, and ShoUld prevent a repeat of this year's debacle. What is the point of raising . · the student activities fee and creating a safety net for .an already e~isting security : blanket? The attitude should not be one of \We can always cover our mistakes by raising the fee,.. but one of proper . management and egalitar:ian allocation. Sincerely yours, Franklin Schneider David Fitzgera.ld Thanks For The Support To The Editor: We would like to thank all those who made the trip to Hamilton College on Saturday, February 12. You.r efforts to support us, the Union C()llege PARENTS WEEKEND May 6, 7, 8 Make ytJnr plans ntJw! Administrative & Engineerin-g Systems Colloquium Speaker: A.llan M. Doyle, Jr., Vice Chai.rman, Koll.rnorgen Corporation -Topic: \Organization of ·High Tecb.nology Companies\ Date: Thursday, February 17, 19~3-3;45 p.m. Place: Room 3l2, Bailey Hall, Union CoUege Basketball T~am. were greatly appreciated. .~ We hope you will continue to support · us, at our three remaining home games. Each of our remaining games will be very important in- our quest for an NCAA Tournament Bid. 'Thank you, 'fhe Basketball Staff and Players ... Letters to· the Editor must be submitted to Concordiensis by 7:00 p.mo on Tuesday ~one or Editoi.\S·in·Chief A.J. Brodsky, Dianne Pavacic Mat1aging Editor Julianne Abehnan News E4itors Marcy Burstinet, Dpug 14m don Editorial Page Editor D.C. Owens Features Editors Norman Bitnbach, Donna Getson · Arts Editors Glenn.Krutoff, Roberta l!ubinstein Campus Page Editor · ' · Cindy J. TellJ.ler Ass<lciate Campus. Page Editor Jill B. Kaufman Spotts Editors Drew Hurley, R~ck.Sapir LayoutAdvisor Peter Mohr Subscription Editor Gregg Shack Photo Editors £hris Lacy, Mary Philli,pS Associate Photo Editor ~ Daphne Chigas Sport,s Photo Editor Robert Tang Political Cartoonist . David Neiblum . Staff Debbie Albert; Mike Anzenberger, Jan Baran, Jay Baruch, Patty CalJBhan, SCott Collins, MichaelDevito, Kathy Duffy, Lori-Favata, David Fitzgerald, Mary Ann Gag)#lrdi, Cathf Gifford, Emily Haft, Lynn Hano, Kathy Keveaney, TedKendriS, Susan :Kone, Jeremy Koskel, Tom Miller, David Mutray, Matt Nankin, Michelle Novelle, Joan O'Connor, Jennifer Paston, Nancy Pettinella, steffi Propos, Heidi Rosen, Leslie Rhubin, Gayle Rosenfeld, Amy Sch:achter, Franklin 'Schneider, Ju<Ue Steinhardt, · Joyce Teitelbatun, Bob Van Voris, Peter }Veishart, Sherry Weitzen, Scott Wy]:[off, Dave Zuckerberg PhotoStaff · Brian 13ilsback, Peter Clouse, David Croasdale, Russ :Fein., 'fom Geng(), Jon Heimer, Paul Klein, Karen Lissauer, Susan Mettler, Sue Srenska, Gregg ~hack - . CONCJ()RD~NSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall; Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehl.lllna Publicatioos 1 Inc., Box 388,. Sidney, New YQrk .13838,. (607). 51)3-7151. Entered in·. the ScheJtectady Post Office ~w &.sf. cla$1 matter. Subscription rate:- 35 cents per copy, $1~ per year, delivered anywhere In tbe t trnited States. .. · .: CON(lOBDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service f .. (CPS), and utilizes the College News 'Bureau (CNB). . .. ' . . -:... -- . .., .. - - Office Telephone • 37o.6155 .. Be 1 worn whOl her. 1 I Lila JSW six, what Lil if it \VI to lu \J hous cook worl thef until .. , \( said Juar \~ doe! wag \r worl do tl whe \1 shot of y rna~ \] som thin She shir ... /

- s ..... - se 18.t be K.. :ee ld •'s 1e tn er • i CONOOBDIENSIS, February 1'1, 1983 Page 11 ... Woman··Bebind The Woman By ART BU(1HWALD ' Behind every 1i:berated woman, there is another woman who bas to do the dh1Y work for her· d. th' ta.lk. t 1 discovere · · IS · mg . · o a .high price ~or women's support system and then he liberation.\ starts screaming he didn't \There is if you're married 1 marcy a waman who would and have to keep a tmuse. ~For ignore her house and children.\ evecy liberated woman you see . ''But every magazine you in- an office, there is anotller read in the -~upermarket woman behind her providing features .. hru;bands of working the support system for the wives sharing the household Lila Peabody .. L~a work~ for a · law firm from nme to flve, or . six, or seven,, ~epentling. on what case she 1s. mvolved m. marriage~ If the woman is ·duties.\ <ij.vorced and has cbildren it's \The maga~rnes are the only even more costly, becam;e no place you see them. The. / Lila told me she couldn't do it if it wasn't for Juanita. . \Who is Juanita?\ I wanted to know. \Juanita takes· care of the house and the children, . and cooks our melds. I colllQ:n't work if it weren't for bet, and the fact the Safeway stays· open until nine.\ \You pay her?\ \Of course l pay her,\ Lila said. ''Half rnY salary go~s to Juanita.\ · \You mean your husband doesn't contribute to her wages?\ . \No. He insists if I want to work I have to pay somebody to do the things .I had to give up when I took my j\ob · \That doesn't -seem fair. I should think he wol,l]d be proud of you for being a la:wyer and making it in a man's wotld.'·' \He is, as long as there is somebody at home. Frankly, I . think he's prouder of Juanita: She always :knows where- his shirts are.\ \I didn't know there w~s such ~ex-husband ls going to pay for American male will accept hi$ his wife' and also the woman wife doing .her own things as who has to take care of his long as she does everything else kids.\ as well .. When we go to parties \But at least you're a person my· husband introduces me fu your own right,\ I said. ·proudly to everyc;me as 'my wife \I .am as long as Juanita the lawyer.' When we get home doesn't quit. It U!n't easy to find at night, he wants to know why spme one who Will be a there are no clean sheets on the housekeeper and· take care of bed.\ · the kidS·and wait until you get ~ \It's funny,\ I said. ' 1 Until I home· at night. cl've been talked to you,. I thought every through three Juanitas in two liberated woman had it made. I years. One came from El always saw yowas someone wbo ~alvador, another from had the best of both worlds. No:w Ecuador and this one is from it turns out that without Juanita Bolivia,'' mopping floors you wouldn't be ''Your Spanish must be very liberated at all.\ good by now.'' ~. \You've gQt the picture,\ Lila ''It's perfect,· but trankly, said. \Any married woman who we're all gettirig a little· tired of wants to, be liberated better fried beans/' have a good .pal in a Latin \Itseemsironicin ordertobe American Employment free· a womanmusrfind another Agency,\. slave to replace her~\ _ \What happens when your •·•vou . bave no choice. support system get sick?\ _ ,Ahusbandis.willing to go along \Then _J stay home and with a lip¢rated 'Wife as long as : everyone in. the law firm says, things. are running smoothly at -'we knew this would happen if home. But one brE!akdown in the we hired a woman lawyer~'\ Commenta:.;-ies. do not necessarily represent the views o-f the Editorial Board of Concordiensis •. . Anyon~ interested ·in writing intelligent commentaries should contact D.C. Owens at 6155. COMMENTARIES f From Washingto~ \ By JACK ANDERSON and JOE! SPEAR WASHINGTON -I you heat your home with gas, you don't. need to· be told that the price of natural :gas i::; skyrocketing. Some Alnerlcan families are paying as much as 70 percent mote to .heat their homes this year than they did last wmter. Who is to blame!? Congress, the gas producers, and President Reagan. In 1978, Congress passed a truly terrible law that regulated natural-gas prices. It was a tillle of riatural~gas shortages, and Congress wanted to en~ courage producers to drill for ~''de.ep:.well'' gas. Sa they allowed producers to charge more for deep gas than for shallow gas. · ~QW there is a natural\gas glut. So producers are selling their deep gas and holding back on the shallow gas. It 'earns them more profit. Congress tried to prevent this kind of gouging in the 1978 law· by requiring the Federal Energy Regulatory Com- mission to protect consumers from ripoffs. The commission was given the power to prohibit natural-gas contracts that were e:Kcessive, fraudulent or abusive. This is where Presi'dent Reagan comes in. He appointed energy commissioners who are more interested in the gas producers than in their customers. The Reagan appointees h~ve interpreted their authority very narrowly. They have decided they can prohibit a natural-gas contract only if it contains outright falsehoods. In effect, an open season has been declared on gas customers. The producers can gouge you all they want, as long as they don't lie to you. Now: things are right back where they started - in Congress. A move iS undeeway to remite the 1976 law to · prevent price-gouging by natural•gas producers. POWER STRUGGLE: The Environmental Protection· Agency is beginning to look like the OK Corral. Bureaucratic bodies are littering the land~ scape. Last week, President Reagan Q fired the head of the EPA's hazardous-waste section, Rita Lavelle, and two of her top assistants. Our sources say as many as 10 more EPA officials may· also be dismissed. Protection of the envirenment has hardly been at the top· of the Reagan administration's list of priorities. So why all the bloodletting at EPA? It wasn't the result of any deep ideological difference of opinion. It was simply a bureaucratic power struggle between Lavelle and another top EPA official. Here are the details: Lavelle was an old Reagan friend from California, but she had made some serious mistakes. And the White House was worried about its fight with Congress over the contempt citation voted against EPA chief Anne Gorsuch. So Lavelle got the sack. Firing her made it look as if the Wbite House was finally doing some housecleaning at EPA, but it also protected Gorsuch. Lavelle's most serious mistake was lying to Congress about a conflict of interest. She used to work, for Aero jet- General, and Aerojet-General used to dump toxic wastes at the Stringfellow Acid Pits in California. The Stringfellow dump is one of the government's highest- priority cleanup - projects. Lavelle promised Congress she would have nothing to do with the project because of her past connection with Aerojet- General. But a congressional com- mittee obtained a document which showed that she had been working on the Stringfellow matter. She not only was im· .plicated in a conflict of interest, but she broke her promise to Congress about it. Lavelle also had a scrape with Robert Perry, the EPA's en- forcement chief. It seems that Lavelle had. offered to settle a waste-dumping case with Monsanto Chemical Company, but she neglected to tell Perry that she had cut the deal. He later turned down the set- tlement. Monsanto was furious bec~use the settlement had already been agreed upon; Perry was furious because he hadn't been told about the agreement. Lavelle was close to President Reagan's top assistant, Ed Meese, and she exptected him to stick up for her when push came to shove. But she apparently overestimated her influence and is now out of a job. HEADLINES AND FOOT- NOTES: Federal law en- forcement agencies are feuding over the right to bear arms. The Lab()r Department's inspector general wan~ permission for its agents, to carry guns. The Justice Department and the FBI are against the prop<>sal. Labor Department agents are worried, they say, because they are required to investigate mcbsters and cannot defend thelllSelves without weapons.

---- Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS, FelJrtlltTY 17, 198S THE ARTS - . . - . . - .. · . . Orrin Star and Gary Mehalick Folk 'Duo to Appea.r By ALLYSON RAMSEY Orrin Star and Gary Mehalick will be appearlng Friday .. Feb. 18 at the Union College ·Cof- feehouse. Together since 1976, Star and Mehalick perform a spectrum of American traditional music on guitar, banjo, mandolln ~nd voice. They have performed· throughout the Ul}ited States and Europe, and are known for their dazzling instrumental work. In 1976; just before teaming up with Mebalick, Star won the largest bluegrass. guitar contest · in the country, THE WORLD the .. ~atio~al Flatpicking . ChampiOnsblp, an· event held ann~lly in Winfield,. Kansas. The Boston based duo has been called \one of the most popular folk acts in New England,, playing bluegrass and other acoustic music with fire, precision and. good humor.'' The. performance will beg4l at 8:30 in the Cabaret Room. Tickets are on sale for $1.50. Everyone who enjoys bluegr(lSs, and even thOse who haven't bad much exposure to it, are urged to attend wh,at promiseS' to be. an entertaining performance. · UR CAMPUS One Woman's Poetry By PROF .A. FRAZIER On February 25th, (Talk: 3:30; Reading 8:00) Linda Gregg will give a poetry reading in the .Humanities Lounge, sponsored by the Idol and the English Department. Gregg is an American poet in her thirties, born in Marin County; California, and author of a collection entitled Too Bright to See (Greywolf Press), of which a nwnber of poems first appeared in The New Yorker. Gregg takes a. special care in exhibiting feelings everyone has, but most hide, carelessly bundlingthem away. In the first section of her book (\Alma'') she gives herself up to the idea that there is a second person in us, one who tells the lies for which we ar.e blamed, who gets the pleasure when we are loved, who is always the genius we now and then fail to be. In the second section, \Marriage and After\ a failed marriage gets tender and in- telligent treatment. These poems begin with shock, stating facts others would do their best to forget: \My husband· sucks her tits . . .. \ the first one begins. Out of those fine speeches we dream up after a quarrel, but never get a ·chance to use, Gregg makes poems. But not simply for spite. The poems giye her. ~eelings both nobility and hunulity (two goOd things to have on your side during a quarrel), but they also move toward understanding. This section of the book is set in Europe, especially· in Greece, but though the p!)ems occur in historical places they use the materials of place simply. The composition of local imagery is clear, choice, lovely, and easy to understand.. />< The third section takes us beyond the end of marriage. 'f!le succession pf poems in- dicates other sequences: a succession of addresses, a succession of companions. The immedia~y of jolU\nal entries is combined with the thematic CO.UNSELOR POSITIONS At leading Private Coed Camp with Modern Facilities on 380 Acre Campus overlooking its pvt. lakes in N.E. PA. (150 miles from N.Y.C.) for well qualified,' talented & skilled activity leaders for all Landsports, Tennis, Golf, Swimming, Boa.ting, Canoeing, Waterskifng, Crafts, Ceramics, Woodworking, Photography, Teen Leader.s working with mature staff from many regions for period June 23rd thru Aug. 22nd. Write or Call Camp Starlight of Starlight' PA., NY Office 18 Clinton St., Ma·lverne, NY 11565 or call 516-599-5239. ON CAMPUS REPRJ:;SENTATIVE: _ ERIC HORNICK 370-6709, Box 981 NOTICE! Package Room Hours on Friday are now 3:30-5. p.m. coherence of soap opera: marriage, adultery, divorce, adultery, affair, and no :more marriage; love alternates with pain, pain with love-the writing being done in the m()ments of pain, but serving to take us out of pain, as in \Swnmer in a Small Town\:. ''When the men leave me,-They leave me in a beautiful place.\ The book as a whole is a model of a _ certain feminist theme. Gregg tells a story Qf a girl who becomes a wj{e, a wife who becomes ab11sed, _ and through abuse, discovers that other person, her own woman, within. Her themes are --cpn- sistently those of men and women, and are interesting . to any . of us who fall inti> one of those two categories.· Gregg is bold enough to appearln a state of emotional undress before us, and if that invites a kind of voyeuristic interest, itis a most intelligent and morally bracing exhibitionism she offers. · Ms. G.regg's po-ems give reason to .,bQpe that a· large audience will enjoy this reading. Too Bright to See. is on sale in the Bookstore. · More lhim 60 voyage related university ·courses. Faculty drawn from the ·Uni-versity of Piitsburgh a11d othe~ leading universities, augmented by visiting area experts. Optional tours; .Including special tours intQ th.e ~eople's ~epublic of Chinn, avaihible. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race· or creed. The S.S. Universe Is fully air-conditioned, 18,000 Ions, registered in Liberia and built in America. For a tree color brcx:hure, w~ile: Semeeter at Sea, UCIS, University of Pittsburgh, Forbes Quadrangle, Pitisburgh, PA 15260, or call loll free (800) 854•0195 (in California call (714 771:6590). . . . SOUTH COLLEGE- PARTY Friday; Feb. 18th A.lumni Gym-1 0:00 .p.m .. Free Beer & Entertainment .. FEATURING . \Charlie T a·oct the Grad$\ EVERYONE IS WElCOME ~The Dutch.Hollow Pub'\~! ~ Dutch Hollow Pub wl be .open for Four seatings ·11) on Saturday night for Dutchman's Night. The seatings will be 4:30; 5:00, 6:30 and 7:30 p.m. Reservations for Saturday ·Nights will be taken on - .-' Wednesday and friday afternoons between the hours of 1 and 4:30 crt the ticket booth , Ca111egie Hall. RESERVATIONS ARE REQUIRED TO PARTICIPATE! Dutchm1n's Night ,is available to l9•meal plan hoiclers twice a month, and to 14 .and 10-meal plan holders once a month. ' Don't Forget! I! Make reservations You dQn't have to feel left out if early, bring your meal card and 1.0. you're· not on a meal plar:t. We~·u and' prepare to enioY yourself! ! ! · t gladly accept cash reservations too. so Byl Or i.n 19 on t1 in PC ThUI The I new upf, Tt brell Unf< man wen an Mob wer'

- -· -- 1r 1ng. eld as. 1as ost ew md ire, tat lffi. .50. >ys vho ! to hat jng (8 II, e:ce r r r· OONOOBDIENSIS~ February 1\1 1983. Page 13 5 . . - . THE ARTS sowWowWo~ Go Wild At Proctor's By ROBERTA RUBINSTEIN Arts Editor Originally voted biggest hype · 1n 1981, Bow Wow Wow has g~ne on to be called most progressive in po~t-punk England, After last Thursday's·concert at Proctor's Theatre, it seems an entirely new title will have to be thought up for 1983: The evemng was at the least a break from. the usual routine. Unfortunately; it fell short of many expectations. Those who went to the show to see whether \ an 18 year old chick with a Mohawk was r~al or imagined were more than likely satisfied. But I Would be hard pressed to say that the more avid fans were equally ·impressed. Anyone wJ:m has heard ·1 Want Candy ·or perhaps The Last of the M~ld.can$, bad to be el[- pecting nothing short of a display of musical . professiona_lism. Although Leroy Gorman (bass} and Dave Barba.rossa (drums) were in their usual top form, the per- formance on the whole was lacking. The awesome volume was distorted in Proctor's small theatre and the mixing was done in a way which somehow took away from Annabella's sensual voice. The crowd, Jl>nnabeUa ~i.th Dave Barbarossa on drums .•. sweet ... A pound of cheese or a hill of beans? / '· Is your pizza made with a pound of cheese or a hilt of bean$? That'$ the question to ask wr.i9n ordering your next (:)izza. Domino's Pizza uses nearly a pound qi 1 00% rea! dairy chee_se on our large double cheese pizzas. Many of our competitors cut costs with artifica'l cheese made from soy· beans. Domino's Pizza believes in quality. We promise fast, free delivery in 30 minutes or less. And when we promise: . Domino's Pizza Deliv~rs.'\ We use only 100% real; dairy cheese. however, did not seem to mind much. As soon as the band hit the stage the place was rolling. Familiar or unfamiliar, Bow Wow Wow's heavy African percussion behind an un- polished Mique brand of punk, managed to create a hypnotic spell. UnUke the smoother studio 'performances' of hits like l Want Candy, Louis Quatroze, Cowboy, and Go Wild in the Country, the live versions lost'tlleir lyric power. Although ne piece of vinyl playing on a turntable could possibly en- tertain the way: the real thing can, without the· passion .of the lyrics it seems the fans are cheated. Perhaps Annabella's incredible stage presence was enough compensation. She bopped al'oUild with an endless stream of energy-absorbed by the somewhat repetitious beat. The hour long set was done matter-of.;factly; yet Annabella seemed to be hearing it aU for · the very first time. The rest of the band, incidently the original Ants of Adam and the Ants, seemed oblivious to the crowd. Gorman and Ashman jammed together as if they were casually playing in .an old friend's basement. There was no pretentiousness, yet it was all done too mechanically. It was hard to tell whether any of the band members· either knew or cared about wliere they were playing or who was listening. Backstage, Aslnnan asked one of the crew members, \Where Bow Wow Wow at Pr.octor's is this place anyway?\ From Burma to London to Schenec- tady, and countless places in between, it is no wonder that the concert halls lose their significance. Fans; however, rightly or wrongly, like to feel that they are being played to and not..Played at. The members of the band did. not appear -~ ~ . • . .:.II.. .. . • • - ~ <!'J. ~ ~- ---- --·---- -----, Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Limited delivery a[ea. <!:)I {)ti 1 0QI'Illno's:P1Wl>I11C. 127 NottTerrace P!iONE: 372-4441 ® I I I I I ....... ®, $2.00'0ff any 16\ 2-item or more Pizza - One Coupon per P-izza Expires: March 3, 1983 FAST, F·R.EE DELIVERY 127 Nott Terrace PHONE: 372-4441 I I I I' I I I I r · . 1 L-------~~------ r-- .... - -------- ~-- ... I ·fREE : EXTRA 1 THICK CRUST ® On Any Size Pizza 12\ 0 16\ 0 · . One Coupon per Pizza Expires: March 3, 1983 FAST, FREE DELIVERY . 1 127 Nott Terrace ~·•:;i, PHONE: 372\4441 1/'~·< '. I . . I~·(~.· \ .._ ____ .... _____ ... ____ . _ _..~_·-. ~ ~.l:':'~~~~~:;·:;;;l'.:, \I want candy\ (jJ Ill ~ Ill 0 .... u --'-\*~- c:i especially concerned with this. They played their set, stirred up S()me emotion, and left for their next show date. Behind them remained a satisfied few, who got to see a twilight zone type band live on stage. As for the rest of us? Well, it was a good time, and it certainly beats MTV.

Page 14 OONOORDIENSIS, February 11, 1983 THE ARTS Gospe. Choirs in concert Jaffe Lecture: I Kirk on Furniture J ohri T. Kirk, recognized as one of the leading .autnoriti~s on American furniture, an(! ·Professor uf Art History and Artisanry at Boston University, will give a Jaffe publjc lecture at the Arts Department, Union College on Tuesday, February 22 at 3 p.m. in the Arts Building, room 202. Professor Kirk graduated from George School and :Earlham College, and received an M.A. in art history from Yale. He has studied-cabinet- making at the School for American Grafts.men, Rochester, New York, and furniture design at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, Copenhagen. He has been Assistant Curator of the Garvan Collection, Yale University; Director of the . Rhode Island Historical Society; and Director of B.oston University's American and New England Studies Program.. He is the author of Connecticut Furmture (1967), Early American Fur- niture· (1970), American Cbairs (1.972), and The Impecunious Collect<»r's Guld~ tQ Ame11ican ~Antiques (1975). Mt Kirk's most recent book, . American Fur· niture and the British Tradition to 1830, has just been published by Knopf. Gospel Success Poetry Contest. ByGREGORYT. BOWLE.R B.L.A.S.' Third Annual Gospel Program was held this past Sunday (Feb. 13, 1983) in the Memorial Chapel. Admission was free. The annual Gospel Program is B.L.A.S.' salute to Black History Month. Over 300 people showed up for the program; a very good turnout. Participating Gospel Choirs were: Mt. Calvary Baptist from Albany; Metropolitan Baptist from Albany; St. John's Church of God and Christ from .Albany; Duryee A.M.E .. Zion from Schenectady; and The Young People~s Choir of The A.M.E. Zion Church from Ne.wburgh, N.Y. (the special guests). The Young People's Choir ranged in ages from 5 to 17 years old. The audience responded to the . young choir with handclapping and singing along and, after four selections (songs), the choir received a standing ovation. The other participating choirs contributed inspiring Gosp.el music, which was greatly ap- preciated by the audience. A number of talented Union College students performed beautiful solos. They were: James Marshall, John E. Johnson, and Joe Graham. The Black History segment of the program contained quotes from the late great Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., which were recited by Union students Arzell Steans, Steve Worrell, Larry Romaine arid Victor Ward, with an in- troduction by John K. Johnson. The invocation was given .by 109 Canal Square, Broadway, Sch'dy. Phone: 374-4332 •PIZZA• Chreoe Ea.Ch\se S..u .. re Muahroom P•pperoft,i Cr-nP•pprr• MeatbaUa · Oniana AIICho•ie• Any Acid Item Papa Cicco·• O..lu•• N.Y.S Style I\ cut 4.50 5.50 5.50 5.50 5.50 5.50 5.50 5.50 5.50 .75 10.00 Sicillian Style (Deepd!.h) U\ cut .%4\ ct,Jt 5.50 8.75 6.50 10.50 6.50 10,50 6.50 10.50 6.50 10.50 6.50 \0.50 6.50 10.50 6.50 10.50 6.50 10.50 1.00 1.75 13.50 21.00 r------------FREEAAERCli~Ffofs€~---~---~---1 r Every time you get a plza or sandwiches valued at more thAn ·: : ~.00 you wll! receive a COUJICift • save them for Free Merchandise. 1 I . t 1 1S Coupon$ 1 e cut Free (cheese only) I t 20Coupons 112cutF\\(cheeleanly) : I 25 Coupons 1 24cut Free Ulilgr~) 1 1 soeoupoia Y.tkegotbeer (3daysnotlce) .t : lOOCoupons Pizza Partyfor25 people with beer at your : t-----------~--~-----~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~-~-~ WE DELIVER ON CAMPUS· PHONE 37 ~433:l UNION COLLEGE Chapter of Sig.ma XI PRESENTS THE SIGMA XI ,WINTER LECTURE ON \The Nature of Chloroplast DNA\ by Dr. Hewson H. SWift THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11,1983 4:30 P.M.-SS016 Refreshments at 4:'00 P.M. Gregory T. Bowler, a·nd the benediction was given by Mereditb Henderson. I (Greg B()wler - Master of Ceremonies) was very pleased with the turnout and would like to thank those faculty mem- bers, President and Vice President, and Union students who were able to attend; their support was greatly ap- preciated. Special thanks to Dr. Roth. Planning for this year's Gospel Program began as early as Novem~ber of 1982 by Meredith Henderson and myself, and -the efforts were rewarded by the pleasing turnout for the program. The program is very advantageous for college-comm.unity relations and I hope that next year brings more success and more at- tendance from the college community. Winner Announced Shawn T. McCord has been Union then selected the winner . selected as the $25 fb\st place for Idol's Poetry Contest from prize recipient of the 1982-83 · the six chosen by Idol .staffers .. · Idol Poetry Contest. l'lle poem, · \Seurat's Red\ along with ''Seurat's Red''', was first . other Union College student . selected with five other poems artwork will appear in the for. the winter 1983 Idol. These winter Issue Idol, scheduled for initial magazine selections were publication in late February. made by Idol staff members The Idol wlshes to congratulate from a group of 40 submissions. Shawn and its other successful The English Department of contributors. ALUMNI COUNCIL REPRESENTATIVES ILENE LANDRESS JIM CARROL In fact, we'll even p~y you moreth~~ $550 a mo~th While you attend. That's in addition to paying for your full tUition and requtred books and fee~. . It's a:U part of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. How does it work? If you're selected for a Physician Sch~lar~hip-from the Army, Navy, or Air For~e-you're commissioned as an officer 1n the Reserve.. . . . While you're in sch_ool, you'll serve 45 9ays a ye~r on act1ve duty, gatnang valuable medical expenence. After grad~at1on,·you Will serve. three or more years, the length depen~ing on the rf!qu1rements of the Servace selected and years of scholarshipass1stanc~ ~ece1ve~. . . , . . As an Armed Forces phys1c1an you II rece1ve offtcer s pay and bel')ef1ts 1 and enjoy the advaAtages of ~9rking regular h~~rs. You'll al~o see a d1vers1ty of patients and have opportun1t1es to use soph1st1cated med1cal techll.ology,. • But most important; Wh!le you're in medical ~chool ~e'll ~elp pay the b1lls. For more information, send mthe coupon. There s no obligat1on whatsoever. --·~--~---· Yes, I a~ interested in.receiving more infor~ation a~ou~ an Armed Forces Health I Professtons Scholarship. I understand there IS no obltgallon. I For more information mail this coupon to: . Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box C 1776, Huntington Station, NY 11746 I I Check up to three: ArmyD NavyD Air ForceD I Name-....---~-----,.----c-::-------SeX--M..-.F . \ (please.print) . I Addres'S-------,.-~~--~-'-----~---'--~--API-. ---1 Ci te.__---,-'--- P----~hone( I Enrolleda~·~~~----~-----School-----~-----1 I To graduate, in* Degre · · · · M I --·- .;th ..... - - -- -90111 ... • .. • s ( I 1 5

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, February 11, 1983 THE ARTS ~?, ~\? 'il Gospe. Choirs in concert Jaffe Lecture: I Kirk on· Furniture John T. Kirk, recognized as one of the leading authorities on American furniture, and Professor of Art History and Artisanry at Boston University, will give a Jaffe public lecture at the Arts Department, Union College en Tuesday, February 22 at 3 p.m. in the Arts Building, reom 202. Professor Kirk graduated from George School and Earlham College, and received an M.A. in art histery from Yale. He has studied cabinet- making at the School for American Craftsmen, Rochester, New York, and furniture design at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, Copenhagen. He has been Assistant Curator ef the Garvan Collection, Yale University· Director of the Rhode Island Historical Society; and Director of Boston University's American and New England Studies Program. He is the author of Connecticut Furniture (1967), Early American Fur- niture (1970), American Chairs (1972), and The Impecunious Collector's Guide to American ,Antiques (1975 ). Mr Kirk's most recent book, American Fur- niture and the British Tradition to 1830, has just been published by Knopf. Gospel Success Poetry Contest Winner Announced By GREGORY T. BOWLER B.L.A.S.' Third Annual Gospel Program was held this past Sunday (Feb. 13, 1983) in the Memorial Chapel. Admission was free. The annual Gospel Program is B.L.A.S.' salute to Black History Month. Over 300 people showed up for the program; a very good turnout. Participating Gospel Choirs were: Mt. Calvary Baptist from Albany; Metropolitan Baptist from Albany; St. John's Church of God and Christ from Albany; Duryee A.M.E. Zion from Schenectady; and The Young People's Choir of The A.M.E. Zion Church from Ne.wburgh, N.Y. (the special guests). The Young People's Choir ranged in ages from 5 to 17 years old. The audience responded to the young choir with handclapping and singing along and, after four selections (songs), the choir received a standing ovation. The other participating choirs contributed inspiring Gospel music, which was greatly ap- preciated by the audience. A number of talented Union College students performed beautiful solos. They were: James Marshall, John E. Johnson, and Joe Graham. The Black History segment of the program contained quotes from thelategreatDr. Martin Luther King, Jr., which were recited by Union students Arzell Steans, Steve Worrell, Larry Romaine and Victor Ward, with an in- troduction by John K. Johnson. The invocation was given by I 09 Canal Square, Broadway, Sch'dy. Phone: 37 4-4332 • PIZZA • ChuM Ea.ChHae S.uaar'\ Muahroon1 P .. p.,.,.ron,i c • .,.,n p.,ppetfl Meatballs Onions Anchoviea Any Add hen~ Papa Cicco'• Deluae N.V.SStyle II\ c:ut 4.50 5.50 5.50 5.50 5.50 5.50 5.50 5.50 s.so .75 10.00 Sicillian Style (Deepcll.h) 1%\ cut Z4\ c:.,.t 5.50 8.75 6.50 10.50 6.50 10.50 6.50 10.50 6.50 10.50 6.50 10.50 6.50 10.50 6.50 10.50 6.50 10.50 1.00 1.75 13.50 21.00 r--·----------1=1fEEMERC-tiA.N\oiSe ____________ i I Every time you get 11 piZD or sandwiches v11lued at more than · l l $4.00 you wll! ncelw a coopon • save them for Free Merchandise. 1 . I l 15 Coupons 111 cut Fr'\! (cheese only) : 1 20Coupons '12cutFree(cheeseonly) 1 I 25 Coupons 1 24cut Free (11norectlentl 1 I 50 Coupons 1 h keg of beer (3days notice) I l 100 Coupons Pizza Party for 25 people with beer at your : 1 dorm or fraternity ( 2 days \!'flee) · J L------------------------------------------- • WE DELIVER ON CAMPUS PHONE 37 4-<433=.l UNION COLLEGE Chapter of Sigma XI PRESENTS THE SIGMA XI WINTER LECTURE ON \The Nature of Chloroplast DNA\ by Dr. Hewson H. Swift THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17,1983 4:30 P.M.-55016 Refreshments at 4:00P.M. Gregory T. Bowler, and the benediction was given by Meredith Henderson. I (Greg Bowler • Master of Ceremonies) was very pleased with the turnout and would like to thank those faculty mem· bers, President and Vice President, and Union students who were able to attend; their support was greatly ap- preciated. Special thanks to Dr. Roth. Planning for this year's Gospel Program began as early as November of 1982 by Meredith Henderson and myself, and the efforts were rewarded by the pleasing turnout for the program. The program is very advantageous for college-community relations and I hope that next year brings more success and more at- tendance from the college community. Shawn T. McCord has been selected as the $25 first place prize recipient of the 1982-33 Idol Poetry Contest. The poem, \Seurat's Red\ was first selected with five other poems for the winter 1983 IdoL These initial magazine selections were made by Idol staff members from a group of 40 submissions. The English Department of Union then selected the winner for Idol's Poetry Contest from the six chosen by Idol staffers. \Seurat's Red\ along with other Union College student artwork will appear in the winter issue Idol, scheduled for publication in late February. The Idol wishes to congratulate Shawn and its other successful contributors. ALUMNI COUNCIL REPRESENTATIVES ILENE LANDRESS JIM CARROL In fact, we'll even P?Y you more th~~ $550 a mo~th while you attend. That's in addition to paying for your full tUition and requ1red books and fees. It's all part of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. How does it work? If you're selected for a Physician Scholarship-from the Army, Navy, or Air Force-you're commissioned as an officer in the Reserve.. . . While you're in school, you'll serve 45 ~ays a ye8:r on act1ve duty, ga1n1ng valuable medical experience. After grad~at1on, you w1ll serv~ three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the Serv1ce selected and years of scholarship assistance received. . As an Armed Forces physician you'll receive officer;s pay and be~eflts! and enjoy the advaRtages of working regular hours. You II al~o see a d1vers1ty of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology: But most important, while you're in medical ~chool w.e'll ~elp pay the b1lls. For more information, send in the coupon. There s no obligation whatsoever. ~ee~ln~Wd ~lv:'ore~~a~bo~nn~mo~alt~ I ~rofessions Scholarship. I understand there ts no obltgatton. I I I I I For more information mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box C 1776, Huntington Station, NY 11746 Check up to three: Army D AirForceO I Name._ _________ --,---,--------Se)(__M.__F Navyo (please print) Addres•S-...------------------Apt __ _ Ci'l\1----;------State_._ ____ Zip..._ ___ phone( Enrolled at''------------Schoo'L--------- I I - Ill .... j .: c

-- =-- .... istant arvan rsity; Island rector sity's tgland .s the n1~e Fur~ ~hairs IIDious ~.-lean ~most Fur· tdition Ushed IVinner . ; from affers. ~ with· tudent n the led for ,ruary. :~tulate ~essful CONOOR~DIENSIB, Feb'l\''«lTY 1\1~ 1983 Page 15 ' ... \' - INTERNSHIPS For IDfol'lll&Uoa Oil 'latera- ships, .eoatact .the ,Career eeater. New York City Urbaa Fellows program--'College senioJ:\s .• recent graduates, and graduate students-highly competitive program involving work in New York City ,government full-time Septembe,r-June. Fellow's participate in seminars which focus.on public sector fiscal and management. iss~es and which serve as an- introdUction to public administration theory. Stipend plus benefits. Deadline: March 15. New York, City Managemeat Intern Program·-Co·llege juniors, seniors, and. recent graduates--work ··,in - city government full-time mid-June·· until mid-August. Applicants must have permanent ·home address in one of the :nve boroughs. Stipend·. Deadline: March l. MetropoUtaD Museun1 of Art- Summer internship .for juniors and seniors. Work at Visotors Center, give tours' and gallery talks, participate in project. Must have:strong ~>ackground in Art History and an interest in the humanities and museum education. · Honorarium. Deadline: March 1. Wediko Summer Pfogram-a service for emotionally disturbed ·children, is seeking applicants for summer em- pklyment and practicum. ex- perience. Devereaux Foundation lnstitute of Clinical Training and Research-undergraduates, graduating seniors, and recent. graduates-full-time pre-pro- fessional mental health traineeships and short-term externships providing training and experience with mentally and emotiona._lly handicapped children, youth, and young adults. Capitol Hill hnprovement Corp.-not-for-profit neig~bo­ rhood housing., planning, and design service. Past internships have focused on areas such as sociology. urban planning, historic preservation, public administration, drafting. Hlstorie , Deerfield Suntmer Fellowships in EarlY Ameri~art Haatory and .the Decorative Arts-open to undergraduates with two or more years of college who are interested in museum work, historic preservation and. American culture. Deadline: February 15. ~clence Teachfng Internship- Miss Porter's &hool, an in· dependent boarding and QaY school. Applicants must have undergraduate d~g~ by June 1933 and have strong background in at least two of the following fields: cheniistr:y, g~ology, biology, physics. Sttpend, room and bOard in- cluded. Baltimore Museum of Art- summer· internship t.or sophomores and Juniors who are interested in ·a c.areer in museum work. Deadline : March 15. 'lbe Gallatin Division of New York University is seeking applicants for the Oscar Dystel . Gradllate FeUow!lbl.p in publishing. The two . year master's fellowship is organized around a twelve- week internship at Bantam Books. Students interested in the fellowship $hould inquil:e and apply through tbe Gallatin Division, New York University, New York, NY 10003 (212) 598- 7CY17. Applications are now being accepted for the 1983 .pre-career practicwn in mental health offered for the 13th swnmer by the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, Westchester DiviSion. The eight-week .. program which begins June 13 is open to college students and combines· structured., staf.f· supervised patient assignment$ With professionally conducted seminars and lectures. Interested applicants are asked to contact Ann Eisner, Director, Volunteer Depart· ment, The New York Hospital- Cornell Medical Center, Westchester Division, 21 Bloomingdale Road, White Plains, N~w York 10605, (914) 997)5780. Each semester more than 250 students from colleges and universities across the country come to Washington, D.C. tom work as . interns· under the auspices of the Washington Center. · The Internship' Program, open to juniors and seniors In aU academic majors, includes: placement; orientation, counseling,~supervision, and · evaluation of intern· progress; academic seminars and group. discussioas with other interns; guest lectures;· . social and cultural events with other in- terns; and centrally-located housing. Tl}e application deadline for th~ 19~ Spring Quarter Internship Program is :Januacy 15, 1983; for the, 1983 SUIJlJfier Term,. March 1, 1983; for the 1983 Fall Semester, April 15, 1983. For an application and more program information .• contact your local campu$ liaison or write-call: The Internship Program, The Washington Center, 1705 DeSales Street, N. W ., Washington, D.C. 20036, 202-659- 8510. The French 'Embassy is of- fering study grants. for ~udents With bachelor's degrees who would like- to study in a French engineering school. The grants are available for · 1983-84. Proficiency requirements in French must be met~ Applications must be fieJd by March 1. They can be obtained life Union College Film CommiHee Presents: BAD GIRLS Tuesday, February 22 7:30. 9, 10:30, Midnight RATED: X ss 016 $1 by writing to: Mission Scien· tifique del' Arnbassade de France, 2011 I Street, NW, Suite 500, Washington, D.C. 20006. STUDY ABROAD . Robert Copins of lnter..Study pro~rams; wtll be on campus on Wednesday; 23 February in the afternoon. Students interested .in hearing hiintalk about Junior year abroad progranns should sign up in the Terms Abroad Office, HU 211. VOLUNTEERS Fot lnfoi'IIlatlon on Voluna teerlng, contact the career Center. Instructor: Work with 8 or 10 girls for :Vhour once a week for 8 weeks. Mternoon classes Which include girls in grades K-6 begin at 3:30p.m. Evening clasSes for girls in grades 6 and up begin at- 6:30 p.m. at the Schenectady Girls·Club:Starting the week of 1-17-83. Call Marjorie Reynolds (1-5 p.m.) 374-9800. Instructors are needed for the following classes: Calligraphy, Aerobics, Gymnastics, Weight Lifting; Leathercraft, Simple Crafts, Drama, Large Muscle Games, Ceramics, Flower Making, Macrame, Knitting and Crocheting, Self Development-Assertiveness Training, Jewelry Making, Liquid Embroidery .. The New York Hospital· Cornell Medical Center,· Westchester· Division Summer Pre-Career Volunteer P-rogram is designed to add to our staff·a group of students who are seriously considering careers in the mental health field; and who will through our Volunteer . Department be exposed over an eight week period to the many disciplines ,gf a men~al hospital. The eight week program commencing in June will devote the first week to orientating and training. During this tiine, the students will be given their assignments. In the past, assignments have included patient halls, Children's Ser- vice, Recreational Therapy, J>hysical Therapy, Music Therapy, Behavioral Research Lab, etc. The students' work · schedule will be Monday through Friday, usually 8 a.m.-4 p.m. For further information, please write Mrs. Ann W. Eisner, Director of Volunteers, The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, Westchester CAMPUS NEWS Division, 21 Bloomingda,le Rd., White Plains, NY 10605. Literacy Volunteers will begin a new tutor training program for those . who are interested ,ifl teaching reading to adults. for whom English is a second language. The workshops will be held on March 3, 7, 10, 21 and 24. There will also be a workshop to teach basic reatllilg in ApFil. For more information contact literacy Volunteers office, 153 N ott Terrace, Schenectady. Needed: Volunteer whose job will be: 1. Listening to cassette tapes to determine sound quality. 2. Shelving books and - shelf reading. 3. Repairing picture frames, repairing headphones. 4. Keeping vocational file in order. 5. Keeping Young Adult collection up to date: At Schenectady County Public Ubrary Call Naomi Bristol, ,382°3500. Typing & Clerical, entering materials into computer. Telephone interviewers at Jewish Federation Qf Greater Scheflectady. Call Bertha Berman, 393-1136. Needed: Friendly visitor. Responsible for visiting a homebound senior citizen at least one hour a week. Call Jody Weiner, 372-3395. ·Tues., 9-5; Thurs., 3-5. The American Cancer Society of NYS Division, Inc., Schenectady County Unit, needs volunteers for fundraising- educational programs-office assistance-special projects- patient assistance and other various functions. For more information call 377 .. 2241 or write to the .Schenectady County Unit, 1596 Rugby Rd., Schenectady, NY 12308. HELP WANTED Student to do housework, $4- hr. Cleaning% day on weekend day once per week. Would prefer own transportation. Scotia: 382-4399 days, 399-9027 evenings. Babysitter for evenings 6 p.m.-10:30p.m., Tues&Thurs. 3 children. Campbell Ave., Schenectady, NY, 370•2729. Administrative Assistant- work in management of in- formation-data flow for an industrial . supply-distribution an_ d . s ~ 1 es-mark e t in g orgaruzatlon. Responsibilities will be· both computer-related (accounts payable, etc.) & sales-marketing related. Will give. exposure to small business environment. Hours: 4-5 day; 20-25 brs.-wk. (fle~ble. There is a possibility that this could become a full-time summer position working for both ~ohn Adams & Co. and an en~ viromnental consulting firm in same building, same respon~ sibilities.) Juniors preferred- starting date: as soon as possible. Please contact 456- 2125. Salary: Could pay or would be willing to arrange this as an internship for credit with an academic department. Babysitter--hours flexible. Regular-at least 2-3 times a week. 2 children. Niskayuna, NY. 381-9133. Part time editorial assistant hours negotiable (16·25). Good typist and independent worker to take major responsibility for varied duties. Progressive (academic) atmosphere. Salary open. Available 11+ months per year. Send letter indicating interest and availability and resume or brief description of qualifications to Professor J. Sedransk, Department of Mathematics, . SUNY-Albany, Albany 12222. SPEAKERS .Robert Colllns of Inter-study will be on campus on Wed- nesday, Feb. 23 in the af- ternoon. Students interested in hearillg him talk about Junior year abroad programs should sign up in the Terms Abroad office, HU 211. The Union College Depart- ment of. Philosophy Colloquium Series is pleased to announce a talk by Kate Lindemann, of Mount St. Mary College on \Social Change, Rationality and Feminist Philosophy\ at 3:30p.m., Friday, March 4, 1983 in Humanities 213. All are in- vited to attend the talk and the informal discussion afterwards in the Humanities Faculty Lounge. Union College Chapter of Sigma Xi presents the Sigma Xi Winter Lecture on \The Nature of Chloroplast DNA\ by Dr. Hewson H. Swift, George Wells Beadle Distinguished Service Professor of Biology and Pathology, University of Chicago. Thurs., Feb. 17, 1983, 4:30p.m., Soc. Sci. Bldg. Rm. SS016. Refreshments at 4 p.m. A free public lecture will be given by the Capital District T- M Program on Thurs., Feb. 24 Union College Glee Club and the Regis College Glee Club in Concert SATURDAY,FEBRUARYl~h 8 p.m.-MEMORIAL CHAPEL Free for the Union College Community Department of the Arts presents Lunchtime Harpsichord Concert Series by Hugh Allen. Wilson Ev~ry Wed. Afternoon, Jan. 19-Mar. 2 12:45-.1:15 p.m. ARTS 202 The public is cordiaDy invitd to attend

stant trvan ~sHy; [sland rector sity's .gland s the lliture Fur- :hairs mious !rican :most Fu.r- dition lished d vinner from tffers. : with tudent r1 the ed for ruary. ttulate :essful I ' OONOORDIENSIS, February 17, 1983 Page 15 INTERNSHIPS For ID.fonnatton ou 'mtem- shlps, eontact the Career Center. New York City Urban Fellows Prog.ra·m--College seniors, recent graduates, and graduate students-highly competitive program involving work in New York City government full-time September-Ju:ne. Fellows participate in seminars which focus on public sector fiscal and management. issues and which serve as an introduction to public administr~tion the?ry. Stipend plus benef1ts. Deadlme: March 15. New York City Management Intern Program~-Co'llege juniflrs, seniors, and recent graduates--work ·in - city gaverrunent full-time mid-June· until mid-August. Applicants must have permanent home address in one of the five boroughs. Stipend. Deadline: March 1. MetropoUtan Museum of Art- Summer internship for juniors and seniors. Work at Visotors Center, give tours and gallery talks, participate in project. Must have strong background in Art History and an interest in the humanities and museum education. Honorarium. Deadline: March 1. Wediko Summer Program-a service . for emotionally disturbed children, is seeking applicants for summer em- pl<lyrnent and practicum ex- perience. Devereaux Foundation Institute of Clinical Training and Researcb-Wldergraduates, graduating seniors, and recent graduates-full-time pre-pro- fessional mental health traineeships and short-term externships providing training and experience with mentally_ and emotionally handicapped children, youth, and young adults. Capitol Hill Improvement Corp.-not-for-profit neighbo- rhood housing, planning, and design service. Past internships have focused on areas such as sociology, urban planning, historic preservation, public administration, drafting. Historic Deerfield Summer Fell()wshills in Early American HIStory and the Decorative Arts-open to undergraduates with two or more years of college who are interested in museum work, historic preservation and American culture. Deadline: February 15. Sdence Teaching lnternsblp- Miss Porter's School, an in- dependent boarding and day school. Applicants must have undergraduate degree by June 1983 and have strong background in at least two of the following fields: chemistry, geology, biology, physics. Stipend, room and board in- cluded. Baltimore Museum of· Art- summer internship for sophomores and juniors who .are interested in · a career in museum work. DeadUne: March l~. The Gallatin Division of New York University is seeking applicants for the Oscar Dystel Graduate Fellowship in publishing. The two . year master's .f eUowship is organized around a twelve- week internship at Bantam Books. Students interested in the fellowship should inquire and apply through the Gallatin Division, New York University, New York, NY 10003 (212) sgs... 7077. Applications are now being accepted for the 1983 pre-career practicurn in mental health offered for the 13th summer by the New York Hospltal-'Cornell Medical Center, Westchester Division. The eight-week .. program which begins June 13 is open to college students and combines structured, staff- supervised patient assignments with professionally conducted seminars and lectures. Interested applicants are asked to contact Ann Eisner, Director, Volunteer Depart- ment, The New York Hospital- Cornell Medical Center, West chester Division, 21 Bloomingdale Road, White Plains, New York 1(16()5, (914) 997)5780. Each .semester more than 25(J students from colleges and universities across the country come to Washington, D.C. to work as . interns under the auspices of the Washington Center. The Internship' Program, open to juniors and seniors in all academic majors, includes: placement; orientation, counseling,-supervision, and evaluation of intern progress; academic seminars and group discussiORS with other interns; guest lectures; social and cultural events with other in- terns; and centrally-located housing. The application deadline for the 1983 Spring Quarter Internship Program is .January 15, 1983; for the 1983 Summer Term,. March 1, 1983; for the 1983 Fall Semester, April 15, 1983. For an application and more program information, contact your local carnpu$ liaison or write-call: The Internship Program, The Washington Center, 1705 DeSales Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036, 202-659- 8510. The French Embassy is of- fering study grants for sj:udents with bachelor's degrees who would like to study in a French engineering school. The grants are available for 1983-84. Proficiency requirements in French must be met. Applications must be field by March 1. They can be obtained The Union College Film Committee Presents: BAD GIRLS Tuesday, February 22 7:30, 9, 10:30, Midnight RATED: X ss 016 $1 by writing to: Mission Scien- tifique del' Ambassade de France, 2011 I Street, NW, Suite 500, Washington, D.C. 20006 . STUDY ABROAD Robert Collins of Inter-study program!~ will be on campus on Wednesday, 23 February in the afternoon. Students interested in hearing him talk about Junior year abroad programs should sign up in the Terms Abraad Office, HU 211. VOLUNTEERS For Information on Volun- teering, contact tbe Career Center. Instructor: Work with 8 or 10 girls for 1 hour once a week for 8 weeks. Afternoon classes which include girls in grades K-6 begin at 3:30p.m. Evening classes for girls in grades 6 and up begin at - 6:30 p.m. at the Schenectady Girls Club. Starting the week of 1-17-83. Call Marjorie Reynolds (1-5 p.m.) 374-9800. Instructors are needed for the following classes: Calligraphy, Aerobics, Gymnastics, Weight Lifting, Leathercraft, Simple Crafts, Drama, Large Muscle Games, Ceramics, Flower Making, Macrame, Knitting and Crocheting, Self Development-Assertiveness Training, Jewelry Making, Liquid Embroidery. The New York Hospital- Cornell Medical Center, Westchester Division Swnmer Pre-Career Volunteer Program is designed to add to our staff a group of students who are seriously considering careers in the mental health field; and who will through our Volunteer Department be exposed over an eight week period to the many disciplines pf a mental hospital. The eight week program commencing in June will devote the first week to orientating and training. During this time, the students will be given their assignments. In the past, assignments have included patient halls, Children's Ser- vice, Recreational Therapy, Physical Therapy, Music Therapy, Behavioral Research Lab, etc. The students' work schedule will be Monday through Friday, usually B a.m.-4 p.m. For further information, please write Mrs. Ann W. Eisner, Director of Volunteers, The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, Westchester CAMPUS NEWS Division, 21 Bloomingdale Rd., White Plains, NY 10005. Literacy Volunteers will begin a new tutor training program for those who are interested in teaching reading to adults for whom English is a second language. The workshops will be held on March 3, 7, 10, 21 and 24. There will also be a workshop to teach basic reading in April. For more information contact Literacy Volunteers office, 153 Nott Terrace, Schenectady. Needed: Volunteerwhose job will be: 1. Listening to cassette tapes to determine sound quality. 2. Shelving books and shelf reading. 3. Repairing picture frames, repairing headphones. 4. Keeping vocational file in order. 5. Keeping Young Adult collection up to date. At Schenectady County Public Library Call Naomi Bristol, 382-3500. Typing & Clerical, entering materials into computer. Telephone interviewers at Jewish Federation of Greater Schenectady. Call Bertha Berman, 393-1136. Needed: Friendly visitor. Responsible for visiting a homebound senior citizen at least one hour a week. Call Jody Weiner, 372-3395. Tues., 9-5; Thurs., 3-5. The American Cancer Society of NYS Division, Inc., Schenectady County Unit, needs volunteers for fundraising- edueational programs-office assistance-special projects- patient assistance and other various functions. For more information call 377-2241 or write to the Schenectady County Unit, 1596 Rugby Rd., Schenectady, NY 12308. HELP WANTED Student to do housework, $4- hr. Cleaning '12 day on weekend day once per week. Would prefer own transportation. Scotia: 382-4399 days, 399-9027 evenings. Babysitter for evenings 6 p.m.-10:30 p.m., Tues & Thurs. 3 children. Campbell Ave., Schenectady, NY, 370-2729. Administrative Assistant- work in management of in- formation-data flow for an industrial supply-distribution and. s~les-marketing orgamzatwn. Responsibilities will be both computer-related (accounts payable, etc.) & sales-marketing related. Will give exposure to small business environment. Hours: 4-5 day; 2Q-25 hrs.-wk. (flexible. There is a possibility that this could become a full-time summer position working for both John Adams & Co. and an en- vironmental consulting firm in same building, same respon- sibilities.) Juniors preferred- starting date: as soon as possible. Please contact 456- 2125. Salary: Could pay or would be willing to arrange this as an internship for credit with an academic department. Babysitter--hours flexible. Regular-at least 2-3 times a week. 2 children. Niskayuna, NY. 381-9133. Part time editorial assistant hours negotiable (16-25). Good typist and independent worker to take major responsibility for varied duties. Progressive (academic) atmosphere. Salary open. Available 11 + months per year. Send letter indicating interest and availability and resume or brief description of qualifications to Professor J. Sedransk, Department of Mathematics, SUNY-Albany, Albany 12222. SPEAKERS Robert Collins of Inter-Study will be on campus on Wed- nesday, Feb. 23 in the af- ternoon. Students interested in hearing him talk about Junior year abroad programs should sign up in the Terms Abroad office, HU 211. The Union College Depart- ment of Philosophy Colloquium Series is pleased to announce a talk by Kate Lindemann, of Mount St. Mary College on \Social Change, Rationality and Feminist Philosophy\ at 3:30p.m., Friday, March 4, 1983 in Humanities 213. All are in- vited to attend the talk and the informal discussion afterwards in the Humanities Faculty Lounge. Union College Chapter of Sigma Xi presents the Sigma Xi Winter Lecture on \The Nature of Chloroplast DNA\ by Dr. Hewson H. Swift, George Wells Beadle Distinguished Service Professor of Biology and Pathology, University of Chicago. Thurs., Feb. 17, 1983, 4:30 p.m., Soc. Sci. Bldg. Rm. SS016. Refreshments at 4 p.m. A free public lecture will be given by the Capital District T- M Program on Thurs., Feb. 24 Union College Glee Club and the Regis College Glee Club in Concert SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19th 8 p.m.-MEMORIAL CHAPEL Free for the Union Co;llege Community Department the Arts presents Lunchtime Harpsichord Concert Series by Hugh Allen Wilson Every Wed. Afternoon, Jan. 19-Mar. 2 12:45·.1 :15 p.m. ARTS 202 The public is cordially invited to attend

Page 16 CONOORDIENSIS, February 1i, 198~ CAMPUS NEWS SPEAKERS at 8 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. The topic will be ''Transcendental Meditation.\ For further in~ fonn~!ion please call 458-2053. On Tuesday, Feb. 22, 1983, Loi~ Haignere will speak on \Equal Pay for Work of Equal Value .. \ The talk will define the concept of comparable worth, how it is established for dif· ferent jobs and the findings of studies concerning pay inequities. Ms. Haignere is a research associate at the Center for Women in Government at SUNY Albany. She is co-chair of the Eastern Sociological Association's Committee on the Status of Women and a member of SUNYA Women's Studies Advisory Board. The talk will be held in the Banquet Room of Carnegie at 12:30. SCHOLARSHIPS The BPW Foundation Loan Fund for Women In Engineel'ing Studies provides loans for tuition, fees and related ex- penses. Loans may be for up to $10,000 at 7 percent interest. Repayment begins one year after program completion with five years to repay. Women students are eligible if they are · enrolled in at least two courses per. term and have junior or seruor status. Please see the Financial Aid Office for further information and applications. Deadline is ·May 1, 1983. · The Purchasing Management Association of Eastern New York has announced it will award two $65o scholarships for t~e 83-84 academic year. Full tune students above the junior level in 83-84 with an interest or potential interest in a pur- chasing career are eligible. Applications are available by contacting: A.E. Renzi; c-o Mohawk Paper Mills, Inc., PO Box 497, Cohoes, NY 12047 .. Application deadline is April15. Each award will·include a one- year, dues-free mem_bership in the Association with the op- portunity to attend, .free of charge,. all educational meetings, workshops, and seminars sponsored by the Association. Women who are seniors in electrical engineering and planning to pursue graduate education are eligible to apply for the Julie Kiene FeUowsblp sponsored by the Electrical Women's Round Table. Awards are for $2000. Deadline is March 1. Applications avaUable at the Financial Aid Office. The Lemberg Loan Fund offers interest-fre'e loans to Jewish men and women. Loan applications are available at the Financial Aid Office and are due by ApriU. Qualified students who are residents of New York State are eligible for 1\egents Physician Shortage Scholarships. These scholarships provide $1,000 to $4,000 each year for four years of professional study. These scholarships are available to both beginning and advanced medical students who are residents of New York State and agree to practice medicine in an area of New York State designated as having. a shortage of physicians. Candidates will be ranked within their priority group in accordance with f~ily income reported· ort .the application submitted b_y candidates .. MCAT scores will be used only to resolve ties. Applications for scholarships must be postmarked by May -6, 1983. These scholarships for study of medicine are restricted for SPECIAL ENGINEERING INCENTIVE FOR MATH/SCIENCE DEGREE CA~DIDATES The A-Ut Fa !Lee -L5 .fuuk-< ng flu!z a 6w c..oUege gnadU:.CLtu cotd ne.aA~c..oUe.ge gnadu.a;te,o :to 6 end bac..k to c..o.ftege to ea.J1n. a 6 ec..ond Bache-f~ofl. 1 ~ Vegtte.e -Ln Avwnau:tic..al, A.omonau;tical, Avr..o- .&paee,. and E.tee.VU.c..al EvLg-ine.e.iU..ng. AppUc.anto .&C'f~c.ted fioJr .tlr.i ~ e;nginee.king -incentiv(' piztJf!'ram wie.e rLttend a 12 -week 0 6 &-f. c e tr. T Jta_i,n{n,l Schoo£ in San Antonio, TX. De.gJr.e_e w,{l,t he completed a;t u:theft_ the. AA.A · Fa ft;ce 1 n 6 u-ttLt:e .- o 6 T e cluwJ: u g y, Vay;ton, OH, otz. a.1 a c.i_vLEA.an wuveJL- :6i;ty_ dWL-ing an 1 8- month pe Jt.io d. f oft moJ(:e ..l.n{lo!WJatiun contact: .MSgt. Paul Kalinowski at (518) 472-4484 A great way of_ life. ;lt~c1~ - 57/ vz . ~ .. •. ~ -- ~~ ~SL -WE DELIVER- 374-1888 464 State St. Schenectady, NY ) use in a New York State professional school. However, by special action of the Legisl!lture, the scholarship may also be awarded tO- students accepted · by the University of Vermoot Medical School; the University of Tel Aviv Sackler School of Medicine; Morehouse College, School of Medicine.; Meharry, _ School of Med,icine; or University of Puerto Rico, School of Medicine, under a cooperat.ive program established by contract with the State of New York. Please contact: The University of the State of New York, The State Education Department, Bureau of Higher and Professional Educational Testing, Cultural Education . Center, Albany, NY 12230. The Golub Foundation (Price Chopper Supermarkets) is offering a Graduate Schoel Scholarship to be awarded to an · undergraduate who plans . to attend graduate school, The -graduate school must be in an area served by Price Chopper (list avaUable at the Financial Aid Office). Based on scholastic ability. · Applications available from: Scholarship Committee, Golub Foundation, PO Box 1074, Schenectady, .NY 12301. FOR SALE _ There's still enough Winter to enjoy them! Downhill skiis, boots, poles, bindings in excellent condition for woman about 5' tall with size 5-6 shoes. Cross;.qountry skiis, · shoes; bindings, . bamboo poles and wax fu riew condition. Woman's white figure skates, size 5 narrow, · in excellent condition. For more infonnation, call - HOW'S YOUR • PERSONAL - LIBRARY?. Did you know there's a second-hand book shop only one block from campus? Our stock of thousands of · out-of,pr.int volumes, entirely free o.f textbooks and paperbacks, is frequented by both sttldents and professors who. are building libraries.' We're-open every afternoon, and welcome browsers . Somers Bookshop 841 Union Street (~cross Gillespie) '· Marge WindStQneon ext .. 6376 or come to Humanities 2l5. 1978 PlylJlouth Horizon, Goo4 condition. Asking $1975: Telephone 370-6268 or 377-9453. CLASSIFJEDS t)nion CoHege Coffeehouse .presents-star and Mehalick. Friday,. Feb. 18, 8:30, Cabaret Room, Tickets are $1.50. -- Wanted: A Room fo~ sJ)ring term, Call Adam at 372.0172. -students in need of any typtllg done, term paper, etc. 37().;5222. Curling Rink houl's for the week Feb. 17-23. Thurs.-Fr:i 3:30-5:3o-8at. 3\5 Sunday · No:Curling Mon. 3:30-5:SO:, 7~9 Tues. 3:30-5:30 Wed. 3:3o-5t30, 7-9 Parker .Hill TraiiSportation is now offering round trip. ~hartElr bus service tQ points in Boston~ Long Isb~nd and Westcbester, for th~ spring break. The buses · will leave from Union at the end of finals week and will retlirn on Sunday before classes begin. Our rates are significantly lower than Greyhound rates. Tickets are on sale at Carnegie Hall and in 351 Fox (6523.). Lost: At Psi Upsilon,· a gold cross with a diamond chip in the middle.. Great sentimental ~value. Please return. Please call 6801.. Reward offered. PERSONALS To the G.R-.s and B.R.s of Mohn-real: Meet you on the 2nd floor pissouir. Don't forget margarine, clean underwear, rubbers, cheese tits, 16 chicken McNuggets, ·box:ers, and chocolate chaud. J'M, J'M J'~ • Dear Mal Fixee-Thank you for a great 23 hours. Next time though, we have to stop and· say hi to Sbin-sohn Chur-shill. Love, The Pentholl$e S'elrtet - . To the previous owner of a blue foretgn sports car: Thank Y?U for being a very $pecial kind of friend. You were there wnen I needed you and I 'Vill n~ver for~et it. Love, the girl with the. hidden freckle. Hey elastic pants! I'm going to forget the fact that you forgot something. Okay. But I am going to embarrass you next time. Quess who? . Carol: Congratulations on (Texaslnstrument)2. I'm proud of .y.ou chick. I knew you coUld do It. Me . Ed Axbsafgyj-The newly de- virginized french-lumberjack: Your guaya 's hanging out. Is that what made you-trip up the steps, or was it your \heart- on.'' How does it feel when your llalls are blue? Jan and Wanda Anne, welcome to Union. I'm - glad you're here. Let's make · this a weekend to remember. I love you. Drex Hey Mike! ! ! What does the ''E\ stand for???? From the guys ( & two girls) Pearbrook has been found. Details on the Sunday Evening 6:15 WRUC News._ · To all Tri-Deltas: It is just about the beginning of the end now and looking back - aren't you glad we all began?!! Love you all, initiation is just atOWld the <!Orner (I think?) Love, Sandy 2/18-2/20 7:30 & 10 SS016---$1.00 THE ROC.K-N-ROLL PIZZA P.U·B the only FREE delivery pizza pub on campus DUE TO POPULAR DEMAND. ONCE AGAIN RECEIVE: TW0(2) FREEMEDIUMSIZEDSODAS FRE·E from with the purchase of any large ot smaJl pizza \.. Call Us: 370-6060 Rock-n-Roll Open:. 4··30-' '\ •· Delivery: · 5:30~11:30 -- :;:::::;:: .Li: the ! yal< you! Tc Tonl l.,QV K 1>ea1 abOI Q M £ror effE pou Gut T thd \ -A \ WOI twi v

and J'M • you time i· say ::.Ove, of a hank ~cial there \Vill · girl !Oing >rgot am next s on 1roud ;oUld ~ de- lack: t. Is ~the eart- your anda , I'm nake er. I 1 the 1 the 1und. 1ning just • pERSONA·LS Cont. Lizzy-The room woUldn't be the same without you! We love ya lots! Happy 21st you old lady you! LBL To the ~st room,mates ever; Toni, Debb~e, Astrtd and Sue - lJ)Ve; Jenmfer ·K· athy--The dress looks beautiful!! IIave fun! 'l'hinlV about UT. SMC Quik--happy 2oth .birthday! Mark-just: think. A week from today you'll be d?ne with effectors and orgamc com- pounds and will only have Alles Gute! Good Luck!-Richelle To my 'Sweetie-Happy Bir- thday l I love you, Scooter Pie '' .AAAAAAAAaaaaaaaaaah'' -A.F.L. \Exams are like a walk in the woods. If you trip on too many twigS you DIE!\ - Woff, Woff -Brew WRUC Trivia Standings Category 1-· Dormitories 1. Fox (11 pts.) 2. West (l pt.) Category 11- Fraternity I Sorority ·1. ZBT (15 pts.) . 2. Kappa Sigma (3 pts.) Category II-·· Independents 1. Phi Neat guys with open flies ( ll pts.) 2. Dry Heaves (8 pts.) 3. Judy Junk (7 pts.) 3. P.owser Woofs (7 pts.) 5. Carolyn's Critters (6 pts;) 6. Trouser Snakes {5 pts.) 7. Pig Stickers (3 pts.) 8. John Heart Hunter fan club C2 pts.) 8. Clueless Wonders (2 pts.) 10, The Big Ones (1 pt.) 10. Tear-Q Pega$US (l pt) 10. ZOfiS ( l pt.) There were 14 WR_UC Stumpers! Trivia is sponsored by E · & D Beverages and makers of Pabst Beer~ OONOORDIENSLS, February 1\1 1983 Page 17 Sue Morse, Thanks for a great 10 weeks! I hop you've enjoyed them as much as I have! Enjoy the rest of your pledge. period and get psyched for initiation! Love you! YBS Carol, Diana, Joanna, Karla, Get pSyched for initiation! I can't wait - my love to aU of you! Carla · President and Mrs~ Morris- Thanks for a great evening. Do you understand tbe purpose -of personals now? .--Love, the Editors Secret valentines can't remain anonymous forever. Reveal yourself if you have a heart! J Slave--Well ... maybe we're even. I'm sorty about the ''notch'' misunderstanding. Happy valentine's day!· Some of my dreams came true last weekend. Let's try for a few more.! love you. -Dinern Pineapple, 2 great weekends in a row! We're having some fun, hub? HappyDne year! Love Mike Dear Fran., Washington isn't really that far away, but I\ll still miss you. Love, Susie Benson- .... and I still never see you. . Billy Teck--Alas, now you. have a secret personal! Just a rreminder to snuff out the un- wanted in the vegetable spam. By the way it was LiZ and Phil Drago, remember now? Anyway just wanted to give you an absolute personal just because, because I love you- Susan Lovell zBThe brothers- O.K. you've badit easy fot· a while BUT your placid existence is now coming to an end. Laugh now while you still can. You would never imagine what deviance and evil dwell ih o~ minds. Soon you will wish you sav~d your bids- ZBThe pledges 1(}.() - To my favorite ZBT slut! Thanks for everything on CAMPUS NEWS Valentine's Day. You can be my valentine anytime! Love, your favorite SOT slut Jenski--HaPJlY 19th, . you waste product. Hope your ED is gone. My T.D. is Good luck with Green Tie and remember my philosophy if all goes ·~ong, drink heavily. Thanks for being a great friend. Love always, Cinderella P.S. Where would we be without our lists? To whom it may concern: Doesn't it only take 3 hours to get to Boston from Union? That's what I thought too ... But there appears to be a certain male person who has driven the route for 4 years who likes the 6 hour route! P.S. Even though it was late- doesn't it make a great story? Mike K.++Doesn't YOUR MOTHER EVER MAKE YOU BROWNIES? Thanks for being the best brother a girl ever bad. Love, Sis Kim, I don't care if we are two feet from your bouse•-just SHUT-UP! ! ! ! Rob,. I only have one thing to say: You were driving not me! ; and no matter what you say it's not my fault l Ask anyone--even your mom. Birthday girl from Billsville- l'm just \itchin\ to begin the BSS Club. Agendy for 1St meeting, Movie--Computer Capers at the Eco Decwriter or Terminal TSP Strikes Union Females. Admission fee-daily a.m. gallon of O.J. (or Tequilla Sunrises) Happy 21st!! Much love--Dee Dee Dear Jules-Have any plans for TIDS WEEKEND??????? To Whom It May Concern: There is an important meeting for all members of the WUBBA PATROL, attendance is mandatory! ! ! ! ! Drex-1 really wanted to get you back this week, but I'm too kind. So . . . I decided tQ let everyone know what nice ,guy you are. You owe me A LOT for this one l Domia Before we Put You In Charge Of The World's Most Sophisticated Nuclear Equipment, We Put You Through The World's Most Sophisticated Nuclear Training. It takes more than 16 months of i~tensive training to become a fully qualified officer in the. Nuclear Navy. You begin with four months of leadership training. Then as a Navy officer you get a full year of graduate-level training unavailable anywhere else at any price. Navy training is based on more than 1900 reactor-years of experience. Right now the Navy operates over half the nuclear reactors in America. And the Navy's nuclear equipment is the most sophisticated in the world. That's why your Navy training is and must be the most sophisticated in the world. As an officer in the Nuclear Navy, , you have decision-making authority · immediately. You get important manage- ment responsibility fast. Because in the Navy, as your knowl- edge grQws, so does ynur responsibility. Your training and ·experience place you that most of the men who operate the reactors in private industry started in the Nuclear Navy.) It takes more time and more effort to become an officer in the Nuclear Navy. But the rewards are greater, too . The rewards can begin as early as your junior year in college. Qualify, and the Navy will pay you approximately $1000/month while you finish school. After four-years, with regular, promotions and salary increases, you can be earning as much as $40,500. That's on top of a benefits package that includes medjcal and dental care, and 30 days' vacation earned every year. More responsibility, more money, more future. So, if you're majoring in math, engineering or the physical sciences, and you want to know more about a future in nuclear power, fill in the coupon. Today's Nuclear among the country's most qualified profes- sionals. {No s~Irprise I Age tCollege/University ____ _ I :f:Year in C<>llege +GPA Navy is an opportunity like no other in the world . .AMajor/Minor . BavyOfficersGet Responsibility Fast. • J

' ' Page 18 OONOORDTENSIS, February 1i, 1983 SPORTS Intramural Roundup:_ '' CO-REC VOLLEYBALL Blue League 1. Beavers 3-0 2. Phi Sigma Kappa 3·0 Gold League 1. Ooparts Gold 3-0 2. Fac Pac 2-1 · 3. Sham 2~1 3. ZBT 2-1 · 4. Bonzos 2-1 4. TDX-DG 2-l 5. Ooparts Blue 1-2 5. Old No.7- 1-2 . 6. Quatrieme Etage 1-2 7. Kappa Sigma A 0-3 8. Stray Cats 0-3 6. Fox North l-2 7. Smitherines · 1-2 8. Bit Manipulators 0-3 ME N''S BROOM BALL Red League Btue League 1. Sigma Chi Blue 4- 1 1. Raccoons J.O 2. Cannonballers · 4- 1 2. Sigma Phi A 4-1 3. Aces 3- 1 3. Neutral Curner 3-1 4. Hanson Brothers 3-3 4. Kappa Sigma 3-1 ·. 5. Dry Heaves 3-4 s. Delta Phi 3-1-1 6. FIJI 2-4 6. DeJta Chi 2-3 7. Sigma Phi B 1-3 7. Bearded Clans out 8. Primates 1-4 8. D.U. Dobs out Volleyball In Toga \ByTUS Sports Staff Saratoga was the sire for the Union College Volleyball Club's first match of the 1983 year. Union dropped a close one to the Saratoga YMCA Men's Volleyball Club; 6-15,9-15, 15-11. Participants from Union were Ed Dorsey • captain, Kristine Gernert, Dave Grant, Mark Sage and Brian Walter. Upcoming opponents include the Amsterdam YMCA Volleyball Club on Monday, February 21,. and Colgate on Sunday, February 27. Additional matches are still being planned .. The club meets every Monday night from 7:30 to 9:00 in Alumni Gym and new members are always welcome. For further information call Cap- tain Ed at 6473. Come on out and spike a few. lllf ~ Intramural Spot )jlf ByG.W. Sports Staff 'l'he team of Tom Higgins and Vince Scollo captured this week's Intramural Spotlite honors. Both Tom and Vince, brothers of Phi Sigma Kappa, proved victorious in this term's doubles billiardS tournament, defeating . a field of sixteen rivals. Each member will receive the Miller Lite trophy. INTRAMURAL HOCKEY PLI\YOFFS A LEAGUE B Lea~gue fiji : Delta Phi· J AD Phi ZBT White League l. Home Office 2. Cinderella K~ds · 3. Chunksters 4. Sigma Chi Gold s. Delta Chi Dogs 6. Phi Delta Theta 7. Zoo Crew 8. ZBT ATTENTION . UPPER~CLASS STUDENTS 5-1 4-l 4-1 3-2 2-3 2-3 1-3 0-5 Spring Term Meal Pian .Registration will be open in the Food Service Office after February 18, 1983 for Union College up- . perclassmen. If you do not receive a . registration card with your tuition bill, please .pick one up in the Food Service Office. Register early for Spring Term, to avoid .any delays in your meal plan; Please return your payment . and registration card in the envelope provided, directly to the Food Service Office in Car- negie Hall. Thank You. All pre-paid Up- perclass meal plans received by February ,---------------------. · 25, 1983 will receive a STEP INTO THE 4th DIMENSION AND COMPUTER ANIMATED GEOMETRY A Lecture for the Genera.! Public by Thomas Banchof1, Brown u. Mon., Feb. 21 Union College SS016 3:30p.m. CO-SPONSORED BY THE DEPARTMENTS OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING/COMPUTER SCIENCE, MATHEMATICS, THE ARTS ANDTHESLOANFOUNDAT~N ALSO: Computer Animation and the Geometry of Surfaces in 3·& 4-Space. A talk in conjunction with the Jr·Sr. seminar in mathematics. Mon., Feb. 21 S$017 8:00p.m. free guest pass, for one meal. \'- Photographers!.· The Concord iensis needs you! If you a.re interested calli Mary or Chris at 6155 CURLING 'INTRAMURAL STANDI:NGS Canadian· Division i:DC 4th Floor South· Sha.m Far East <;:urlers Frig.id Rocks FIJi Purple Sig Chi Rocks 2-0 3-1 2-1 2~2 1-2 l-3 l-3 Scottish Division Ri'nk Rafs Union Un,iv Zoo Crew Beavers SDT FIJl White ZBT NOTE 3·0 3-0 2-1 1-1 l'-2 1-3 j:),4 All participants in the Racquefba:U and 1able Te.nnis · Tournament·s are urged to pfay their .matches immediately or suffer a forfeit loss .. Any questions, contact. Gary at 377-4045. All entries for the indoor track meet ·cMen' and Women) are due by Saturday, February 19. Any interested student, faculty or staff are urged· to enter and have the last attempt this term to win the infamous intramural champion shirt. Anaconda-Kaye Sports, Inc. 440 Slate Street.,. Sche~ec!J4y, .N;Y. iZ305 511·312·2051 ····--·-------·--·---· I With this Coupon and Union I.D. ~ I $5.00 Off I I On A Canvas or Nylon Sneaker I . I OR I I $8.00 Oft I I On A leather Sneo.ker I ! (Off tile suggested retail price) ! 1 Expires February 24, 1983 • ·-----------·········· OPEN MON.-FRI. Eveningstill9:00 p.m. SAT. till 5:00p.m. ATTENTION! Application to Terrps Abroad for any fa.ll or sum mer programs must be submitted by Monday, February 21 · This is to i.nsure that students will be able to pre-register for prerequisite5_for each program. . Applications for the Yo.rk exchange are due Monday, February 28 For more information: Terms Abroad of.fice, HU211 Little Vinnie's Pizzeria Free delivery for college 8-12·24 ·cut Pizzas Specia I price on party orders Justask for Vinnie - ... dr ~ te; ell th Al p~ 7 N tll w D al rl \ Sl T

- 3·0 3:.0 2-1 l-1 l-2 1-3 ~-4 bte eir ,fly 1nd .ny to ~he ... OONOOBDIBNSIS) Ft;ib'I'U(Jry 1\1 1983 Page 19 ~------~--------------------------~ ... Capital District To!'rnament this Week Women's Hoop 7-~ ByS.J •. iSLOOMBERG Sports Staff As the basketball. sea~:Joil draws to a close the women's ~ teaiil is looltin~ f~rward to i~s chance for a wmmng record m, this weeke~d's tourna~en~. After one .wm and a -loss this past week, theteamnow holdS·<:' 7 and 7 record. In last week's game against New Paltz, Union .p~lled,_ through with a three point edge,. winning 60..57. Al~ough the Dutchwomen were down 31-29 at halftime, the. entire game rested on the last few minutes. With one· minute left the Union squad was ahead by one poillt. This lead was increasell' to_ three points after junior Cay Lynch made- two foUl shots . with 19 secon<lS t(!maining. Lynch was the high scorer of the game at New Paltz With 17 points. She was followed · by Rebecca Clemente with 14 points and Suzette Collier with 9 pOmts~ Collier was · also the lt!ading rebounder with a total of seven. · Hamilton posed more dif- ficulty this past weekend, as they defeated the Dutcbwomen 7743. Noteworthy though,, was Rebecca Clemente: who scored . ' . ' ' -. . . 18 points. Coach Lynne Barta chtDrmented on the overall strength- of the Hamilton team, butfeltthat a switch to a man to man defense later in the game helped the Union team somewhat. This weekend the D.ut- chwomen will face RPI on Friday at 6;00 at St. Rose in the Capital District Tournament. This $hould be an interesting game, taking into account RPI's close victory over Union in overtime during the 1;eason. On Saturday Union will face 'either Albany State or St. Rose. Either challenge should also be competitive .fu light .of the close scores against these teams during the year. Thewomen's basketball team '!ould appreciate support in tbis fmal tournament of the season. The price of admission is only $1.00 for the tournament. \thlete of the Week By DREWHURLEY Sports Staff Congratulations to Skating Dutchman Brad Nicholson and sophomore centerKen D'Orazio of the Union basketball team .for gaining co-Athlete. of the Week honors for their respective performances. · Nicholson has been red hot. In his last six games he has scored eight goals and three assists as Union has posted a 4-1-1 record. A ~hree-ye~r var~ity let- terwmner, Nicholson is currently in fifth place on Union's 1982-83 scoring list with 15-5 fot: 20 points. His fifteen goals is second highest on the team. Nicholson shows a career total of 19-29-48, which puts him in 14t-h place on Union's all-time scoring list. . \Brad is having the best season of his career here at Union,\ comments Charlie Morrison. \His line has really taken a lot of the pressure off the first two lines and has enabled us to stay in every game.\ Hockey ... Continued from page 20 , , defenseman Jean Roy 2:54 into the ove.rtime period and ruined a gutsy third period comeback by the Dutchmen. Union battled back from a 3-1 .deficit iri the final period to forge a 4-4 tie and take . the game into overtime. Umon's lone tally in the first' two periods came on an unassisted goal by junior center Joe Caruso. The goal, Caruso's 11th on tpe season, gave the Dutchmen an early 1-o lead at 1: 14 of the opening period. Bowdoin tied the game later in. the period on a power play goal, and then went on to dominate the. second period outshooting ~.lon 16-6, a~d outscoring them As a result of this one-sided second period, Union found the~selves t.rail!ng.3-1 entering the fmal pertod. The Dutchmen cut the deficit to 3-2 at 2:54 as sophomore Gill Egan beat B?wdoin goalie Frank Doyle WJ.th .a 1o-foot wrist shot from the slot. The Polar Bears countered with a goal at 5: 27 however, gainmg a 4-2 ·lead. Th~ Dutchmen came back and rotted the .score, .exploding for wo goals m a fifteen second span. Brad 'Nicholson's 15th' goal of the season, a blast from left faceof£ circle at 8:33, made the score4-3. T.J. Ryan tied the game 15 seconds later at 8:48 Brad, Wbo has had foilr two- goal games and is currently on a four-game scoring streak, .is an economics major and a brother of the Chi .Psi Lodge. Ken D'Orazio was named to - the Eastern College· Athletic Conference's weekly \honor roll\ for his outstanding per- formances last week .. D'Orazio is the Dutchmen's third leading scorer With a 13-5 average and leads the squad in rebounds with 156 in 18 .games. Despite a 1-2 week that saw the end of the Dutchinen;s eight- game winning streak, D'Orazio had three excellent per- formances. Agairlst Hartwick, New York's second ranked team, D'Orazio bit for 26 poi1nts. He . 0 0 .c c. 0 en rebounds, one assist, and two blocked shots. The Dutchmen rebounded at hom~ with a 64.-59 victDry over Norwich in a game where D'Orazio scored 18 points, pulled down nine reboundS an<;l blocked a shot. Against Hamilton, New York's top ranked team and the nation's fifth ranked team, D'Orazio was again outstanding with 14 points, 12 rebounds, an assist, a · steal, and sU: blocked shots. D'Orazio, a graduate of Albertus Magnus High School,. is a political science major and a brother at Sigma Chi. Congratulations to both Brad and Ken and best of luck for the reiJnaindE~r of the season. Women Host lnvy ByD.D. Sports Staff On Sunday, February 13th, the Union College women's track team traveled to Holy Cross to compete in the Crusader Classic Track and Field Invitational. The Dut- chwomen .placed tenth out of twenty teams that competed in the meet. Inge Stockman turned . in an impressive double effort; Stockman placed third in the 1000 meter run (3:10.4). and seventh in the 1500 meter run (5:01;0). Freshman Jenny Snover picked ap a fourth in the pen- tathlon with 2,801 points. Other Union competitors were: Joan O'Connor who ran a personal best in the 3000 meter run (12:00.1), Andrea Grief who ran to a fourth place finish in the 50 meter dash (8·.1 sec.), Kate McLaughlin who ran 9.8 . . when he intercepted a breakout and drilled a shot by the stunned Doyle. Union had some opportunities to pull the game out during' regulation but couldn't capitalize which allowed the Polar Bears to gain the victory with the overtime goal. Even in defeat, freshman netminder Wayne McDougall continued to play well as he tlll'ne(J back 44 shots. Bowdoin outshot the seconds for the 50 meter dash and just missed making the finals by two tenths of a second,. Karen Stash who turned in a personal best in the 1000 meter run . (3:30 .. 8>), and Katen Krolinowski who tossed the shot put 26'9\. This Saturday, February 19th, Union will host the 2nd Annual Union Invitational for Women at the Memorial Fieldhouse beginning at 10:30 a.m. At least ten teams .are expected to compete in the event The Dutchwomen will look for a •ong performance by Inge Stockman in the 1000 meter and 1500 meter .runs; likewise, Coach Ebbets is also counting on some points being provided by frosh Jenny Snover in the high jump and the 500 meter run. Come out and watch all the Dutchwomen as they battle .for the Union Invitational championship, Dutchmen 49-35 and the Dut- chmen failed to score on seven power play opportunities which spelled defeat. The loss left Union at 8-7·1 in Division II play and in fourth place in the ECAC Western Division with the top four teams gaining post season playoff berths. The Dutclunen have three games remaining; all on the road beginning with North Adams tonight. SPORTS \Notes Off the Cuff\ SportS- Talk Witll SCOT'l' WYKOFF Sports.Staff It's been a busy winter fol;' Union sports as both hoops and hockey are caught up in inl~ portant playoff drives while swimming, women's basketball and track wind down super winter campa-igns. Spring sports are just around the corner as both ·baseball and lacrofJ5e .break out of the gates this week with pre-season tryouts. .Here are just a few assorted notes to nibble on . . .. Hoop Scoops--Senior co- captain and guard Joe Clinton's next assist will establish a Union College single season assist record. Coming into tomorrow night's clash with Albany, Clinton is tied with Bill Carmody at 146 assists. Joe is already Union's third aU-time leading scorer and holder of numerous assist marks. -Look for a large· · Algany State contingent to travel to Schenectady. f.or tomorrow night's clash between the Dutclunen and the Danes who are ranked fifth and tenth .in the state, respectively. · -sophomore Ken D'Orazio's . naming to the ECAC Division III basketball \honor roll'' this week means that over the past 17 weeks the ECAC has recognized 17 Union athletes as members of the honor roll, player of. the week or rookie of the week teams. Puck l'atter-8enior Skating Dutchman center Brad Nicholson richly deserves being named Miller Co-Athlete of the Week. He's been on a scoring tear as of late and is a .big reason why the Skating Dut- chmen are involved in the race for the playoffs. -Nine active Skating Dut~ chmen hold spots in Union's all- time hockey scoring list. At press time Tod Fobare led the list followed by Don Beall (5th), Joe Caruso (9th), Dan O'Neill (13th), Mickey Perras (14th), Scott Fitzgerald (15th), Brad Nicholson (16th), Gill Egan (19th), and Mark Bonn {24th). -Coach Morrison's strategy to go with the hottest of his three goalies has paid off so far this year. Brooks played tough until a shoulder injury and McDougall has stepped in to become one of the top young . goalies in the east. Morrison can also feel at east giving Basketball • Continued from page 2o Wayne a rest as J<~imMerry has proven his ability b control the crease. Keep the Ball Rolling- Women's hoop has e11joyed a fine winter as they presently stand at 7-7. Cay Lynch leads the Dutchwomen in scoring with 13.9 points a game and Julie Miller has controll~dthe boards all season as tile squad's top rebounder. -Women's basketball hopes to rebound from last year's fourth place finistt in the up- coming Capital District Tournament this weekend at St. Rose. New Strldes-Co11gratulations to the ever improving Union indoor track teamtbat made an imp11essive showing in the recent Capital District .indoor meet. Dutcluneil finished a close second at Albany State and produced the top Capital Diatrict two-mile relay team of O'Donnell-Dellehtm t-Ba ckh- ouse-Contois. Spring Flowers.-·Both, lacrosse and baseball will be travelling South wbile students enjoy their spring break. --Lax will travel to Georgetown on Ivlarch 21 and then farther Soutll to play against Guilford md Hampden- Sydney before returning north for home opener With Albany State on .April 7th_ Musical Chairs-Jobn Audino will be t~king over the reins of Dutchmen baseball this spring. John's brother Carmen was a one-time Union foDtball star. Coach Audino :played ball during his school days at Notre Dame and also coached football alongside pigskin mentor Al Bagnoli a few years back at Albany State. Audino'S most recent coaching responsibilities were as a member of the football and base ball staffs at Kentucky. We,ekend Wat.:!h--Catch Dutchmen .basket ball squad at the fieldhouse this weekend vs. Albany State tonight and Middlebury Satu1day. -Tune into WRUC 90.9 FM to catch the Skating Dutchmen's remaining games tonight, Satur.day afternClon and their finale at Hamilt~n on Tuesday night. Have a nice weekend and support Union Athletics. • • dropped to 15-4 with a 85·64 loss that, winning it going away 65- tPol J:Iami~thon oJnff Saturday. 64 . aymg w1t out . e Feigelson, Joe Wood led all scorers with the Gamet were outrebounded 24 points and ]{en D'Orazio 49;.ao by the Continentals who .pitched in 14 points and nine pushed their record to 19-3 to rebounds. remain the top Division III Dutchmen notes: Joe Wood school in New York State (5th still leads Union in scoring with ranked in the nation). a 20.0 ppg. clip, the list con- Hamilton held the lead most tinues with Joe Clinton (14.1), of t@ first half and led 36-29 at Ken D'Orazio (13,5) and Kevin the 'nalf. Forward Kevin Bar- Bartlett (9.7}. Jtle Clinton tlett picked up his fourth foul dished out the 500th assist of his starting the secondhalf and this four-year career. Coming off deepened Union's troubles up the bench Brian Laux has front. At 14:41, Joe Wood hit a played tough; bllStling for loose jumper to bring Union within balls and reb()Uil<is. Union plays six points at 46-40, however, red hot Albany State at home they would never get any closer. this Thursday~ FEbruary 17, and Hamilton proceeded to score Middlebury at home on five unanswered baskets to Saturday the 19tll, Please come open up a 56-40 lead at 11:08and out and cheeT f()r our· NCAA- were never threatened after bound Dutchmen RUG.BY NOTICE ~MPORTANT meeting this Monday, Feb. 21 at 4:30 m Rugby Room, Humanities Building. All those interested in playing this spring must attend!

Page 20 OONOORDllilNS/8, Febn.taty 1'1, 198/J SPORTS ••• face No. 10 Albany St. Tonlte Tough Road For Garnet Five By GEORGE OBERST AOT Sports Staff The Union College basketball team faced the toughest stint of the 82'83 campaign this past week, and as a result find themselves in a tough situation for post-season tournament play. The Dutchmen dropped two out of three, sandwiching a win over Norwich, 64-59, bet- ween losses at the hands of Hartwick, 72-70, and Hamilton, 85-64. Their record now stands at 15·4 with five games remaining in their quest for an NCAA tournament bid. Senior guard Joe Clinton put it in perspective, \otU' fate is in our own hands, we have to win at least four of our last five. If we come out and play our game we can beat anybody, . but Albany State and Middlebury are going to be tough.\ Drop tough decision at Hartwick On Wednesday, Febrl18ry9th, Union's basketball Dutchmen lost a \white•knuckler\ at Hartwick in front of a partisan crowd of over 1000. Union faced elimination early as they had trouble getting into their offense and with 9:01 left in the first half, trailed 29-18. Hartwick (14- 6) came out ·in a tough 3·2 zone preventing Union from getting the ball inside to their big men and did a superb job getting back on defense neutralizing Union's potent fast break. The talented Dutchmen were not going to roll over and die, however, outscoring ''the Wick\ the rest of the half 17-8, the last points coming on Ken D'Orazio's tip-in at the buzzer. D'Orazio was the sole reason the Dutchmen were not blown out of the gym, netting 18 points on nine of twelve shooting in the half. The second half turned into the game expected, as both teams fought \tooth and nail\ for the last . twenty minutes. Twice Union managed to Qpen up a four-point lead, the last being 58M at 8: 16 but they wer.e unable to build a substantial advantage. Fine jump shooting by Joe Clinton and some nice hustle by Joe Wood kept Union on top. Hartwick came back each time and jumped out to their own four-point lead at 61J;. 64 with three minutes remaining but hoops by Clinton and Wood knotted the game at ()8..68 with 1 :53 left. The- two teams traded hoops to make it 70-70 at 1-: 14 and Hartwick stalled .for the last shot. Everybody in. the .gym knew who was going to take the shot and Tim O'Brien answered with a 15-foot fade away jumper With four seconds left for the final verdict. O'Brien ended with 31 points, playing a phenomenal game. D'Orazio, who fouled out with five minutes remaining, ended with a career high 26 points and collected 13 reboimds, while Joe Wood and Joe Clinton added 17 apiece. Comeback with W vs.Norwich Union grabbed a well-needed win over Norwich (12-6) in a 64- 59 victory, to push their record to 15-3. Possibly still dazed from their last second loss to Hart- wick two nights prior, Union came out uncharactedstically sluggish and Coach Scanlon knew it. \I certainly wouldn't consider this one of our better outings. We couldn't get anything going. I really thought we were fortunate to get out of here with a win,\ and Scanlon finished, \This was a must win for us.\ Sluggish as they were, the Garnet used a 16-4 spurt to open up a 27-16lead with 6:22left in the first half. Joe Clinton and Ken D'Orazio did most of the damage netting four points each. Norwich wasn't going to roll over, however, and trailed Track Stands 6-21 ByD.D. Sports Staff On Saturday, February 12th, the Urtion College men's varsity track team played host to Capital District rivals Siena, Albany State, and RPI. Albany State won the meet with a total of 60% points, Union _was. second with 46'12 points, RPitook third . with 39 points, and Siena was fourth with 28 points. The second place finish by the Dutchmen raised their dual- meet record to 6-2. Winston Britton contributed the only individual victory to the Dutchmen cause with a win in the 400 meter dash. Britton outleaned a tough Albany op- ponent for the win with a time of 51.1 seconds. In addition, the Union one-mile and two-mile relay teams also posted first place finishes. Dave Stanland, Dave First, Winston Britton, and Phil Gist ran a brisk 3:31.0 for a win in the one-mile relay after which Chris O'Donnell, Dave Dellehunt, Russ Backhouse and Denny Contois recorded a time of 8:07.2 on their way to a first place finish in the two-mile relay. Several Union competitors earned second place points: Bob Bertagna was second in the long jump (12.91m.); Lynwood Wade took second in the shot put (13.86m), Gary Wenner notched second in the pole vault (12'6\) Dave Dellehunt picked up a second in the 800 meter run (2:00.1), and Denny Contois captured the number two spot in the 1000 meter run (2:31.7). Five Dutchmen contributed third place finishes: Mark Dunn was third in both the shot put (13.04m.) and the 35 lb. weight toss (12. 93m.) , Gary Wells nailed dQwn third in the high jump (5'10\) and the 50 meter hurdles (7.3 sec.), Bob Ber- tagna leaped to a third place finish in the long jump (6.25m.), Dave First was third in the 500 meter run (1:10.3), and George Capozzi f!.Otched a third in the 50 meter dash (6.15 sec.). Rounding out the scoring for the Dutchmen were Dave Stanland and Russ Backhouse who took fourth in the 400 meter dash (53.1 sec.) and the 500 meter run (1 :10.6), respec- tively. The Dutchmen will be on the road in the next two weeks. February 19th the Dutchmen will travel to New Jersey to . compete in the SR. MET Invitational at Princeton. The following week, February 26th, Union will travel to RPI to compete in the Capital District Track and Field Championsbip. at the half, 3~26. With 15 minutes left in the contest, Norwich switched to a tough man-to-man that con- verted a 39-30.deficit into a 51-51 tie at the four-minute mark and the meager crowd of 250 came to life. The Dutchmen responded by scoring. the n~xt three hoops. Senior guard Joe_ Clinton had the hand in each feeding Ken D'Orazio twice and conv.erting a one-and-one at 2:57. Clutch foul shooting down the stretch gave Union the much needed victory. Joe Wood, Jeff FeigelsonandKevin Bartlett all converted one .. and-ones, Feigelson's coming with 24 seconds left and B-artlett dropped two from the charity stripe with 12 seconds left to pull out the win. Joe Wood. dropped in a lay-up at the buzzer for the final outcome giving him 15 points whUe Ken D'Orazio and Joe Clinton kept up their fine offensive production with 18 and 17 points, respectively. Union outmuscled by HamUton ·~ ~ Hobbled by two tough games in three days and· playing probably their toughest op- ponent of the year,, Union Continued on page 19 New York State BasketbaU Coaches' PoU Division Ill 1. Hamllton (19-3) 2. Hartwick (14-6) J. Ithaca 05-4} Buffalo St. ( 14-4) 5. Union { 15-4) 6. Potsdam St. ( 18-5) 7. SUNY -Old Westbury ( 15-2} 8. John Jay 05-6) Staten Island 05-6) 10. Albany St. (14-7) (t.. to R) Dutchmefl big men Feigel son, Bartlett and Laux fight for . .position under the basket against NQrwich. The hoopsters face Albany St. tonight in Memorial Fieldhouse at 8:00. Hartwick 72 Uniofl64 Hamilton 84 Bowdoin 5 Union 60 Hamilton 77 Albany 601/:z Union 46'12 Basketball Hockey SCOREBOARD BASKETBALL {15-4) HOCKEY (8-7-1 Oiv.ll) WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (7.7) Mi::N'S TRACK (6-2) SPORTS HAPPENINGS _Feb. 17-24 Uni.on .70 'Norwidh 59 Union 65 UnioA 4{0T) New Paltz43 Union 43 RPI39 Siena 28 Feb. 17 vs. Albany State 8:00 Feb. l9vs.Middlebury 8:00 Feb. 21 at North Adams 7:30 Feb. 23 vs. RPI 8:00 .Feb. 17 at North Adams 7:30 Feb .. 19 at New Haven 7:30 Feb.22at Hamilton 7:30 J.V.Hockey WOMEN'S .B-Ball Feb. 17 vs. Berkshire 3:30 Feb. 18-19 Capital District Tourney at St. Rose Men's Track Women's Track SWimming Feb. 19 SR. Mtf Invitational at PriAce.ton Feb. 19 2nd Annual Union 10:30 Invitational for Women Feb. 21 vs. Colgate 6:30 Feb. 19 at Utica 1: oo .Feb. 24-26 Men's State Meet .Q _g Q. :lC u It) ..Q ~ m c: .~ ... m ... Brace for Playoff Stretch Skating DutChmen Split By BLACK STONE Sports Staff During the past week the Skating Dutchmen split a pair of Division Ill games leaving them in fourth place in the ECAC West. On Tuesday night, Feb. 8th, the Skating Dutchmen entertained the Cardinals of Plattsburgh. Union kept its unbeaten streak alive at five games, with a convincing 5-2 victory. Union got off to a fast start as Gill Egan scored just twenty- eight seconds into the game. Minutes later red hot Brad Nicholson lit the lamp and the Dutchmen found themselves with a quick two goal lead. Senior Dan O'Neil closed out the · first period scoring with a · beautiful breakaway goal as he drew it to his backhand and slid the puck by the Plattsburgh goaltender. ln the second period Platt- sburgh and Union swapped goals as Scott Fitzgerald scored on a shot from the .point. At the end of ttle period the Dutchmen had a comfortable 4-llead. In the third periol;l Brad Nicholson increased Union's lead to 5-l with a pretty gmd from the · slot. Plattsburgh added a goal to close out the scpring. Wayne McDougall again had a stellar performance for Union thwarting many Pl£tttsburgb chances in this contest. The freshman net- minder has . played ex- ceptionally well and is certainly a big reason why Union was riding a f~ve game unbeaten streak. It was also a sweet victory for the Dutchmen because it avenged an ·earlier season 5-4 loss to the Cardinals. Union loses in OT On Saturday night Union's fiv.e game unbeaten stre~k came to an end as Bowdom slipped by the Dhtchmen 5-4 in overtime. The winning goal came off the stick of Bowdoin's Continued on 19 Skating Dutchmen Tod Fobare {L) and Don Beall (R) are on Pol~r Bear goalie Frank Doyle's doorstep .looking for a rebound. 8owdoi0 downed the Dutchmen 5-4 in OT. ~ - ' - c ..... .1: v ~ ... ft) co ). ft) '\\ ). D 0 0 -§_

- --- 1t f.or . face n .70 h 59 n 65 OT) z43 n 43 '139 a 28 ~:00 30 iJl goal in's 19 .1: u j ... ro co >- ro , >- .0 0 .... 0 J: Q. • C}.(ll, No.T6 February 24, 1983 /' . . I Student Forum President Ilene Landress and Executive Direct9r Michael Caruso at Marist College c~Qference. _Independent Colleges Fight for Gov't. ·$$$ By JAY BAR,UCH Staff Faced with tremendous tuition increases in excess of $1600 over the last-three years, and a disparity in the way state funds are allocated to in- dependent colleges. and S'(JNY colleges, the Isc (Independent Student Coalition) held its annual meeting at Marist C.ollege this past Saturday to ~scuss these and other pressing tssues which affect independent colleges and their students. The ISC represents. the higher education public _ .policy in- terests of more than 300,000 students enrolled at New York State independent colleges and universities. This past Satur- day, llene Landress, Student Forum President,. al].d this reporter attended the Annual ~eeting to learn and discuss the higher education issues facing colleges today. The first topic discussed . concerned higher education and PU.blic policy on both the federal aWnd state levels. Davld arager, a law student at Alb~ny Law School, in addition ios being the treasur~r for the C, spoke on~ the proposed federal budget and how it af- fects students' finan~ial aid. He stated that the \President's proposed budget projects a new philosophy on student aid. There were no proposed cuts in financial aid in contrast to the 50 percent cut last year and the 30 percent cut the y~ar before.\ Basically there was a restructuring of the manner in which the funds are allocated. The Administration not only reiterated its call for GSL (Guara.nteed Student· Loan) cuts but the Administration proposed to limit the eligibility - for GSLs as well. \The proposal also includes the elimination of funding for the Supplemental Grants (SEOG), State ·student Incentive Grants (SSIG) and National Direct Student Loans (NDSL). The Administration is also seeking a 60 percent in- crease in College Work Study from $540 million to $850 million.\ President Reagan's proposed education budget will in- corpOrate the SEOG and the SSIG into the restructured $2.4 billion Pell Grant program called the \Self-Help\ program. Under this program stude:{lts will have ~o pay for at least 40 percent of their education costs -or a minimum of $800 - through job earnings and loans before they can be eligible for a grant. The bottom line is that 1111der the proposal a \number of grant awards would drop 36 percent, from 3.2 million under present law to 2.1 million under the Reagan budget,\ stated Winter Carnival p. 14 Education Secretary Terrel Bell in the Higher Education Daily.\ He continues, \The total number of student awards, including those under the ex- panded work-study program, would drop from 7.6 million to 6.6 million.\ After David Warager spoke on the President's _ proposed budget; Executive Director Michael Caruso spoke on Go~ernol' Mario Cuomo's proposed budget and the position that the ISC is taking in response to it. Michael caruso stated that \The ISC is adopting a position of support for Governor / Cut~mo's higner education objectives outlin~d in the 1983..S4 Executive Budget.\ One reason for this is the Governor's ob- jective in \achieving a com- parable relation between tuition rates and costs\ for the State University of New York (SUNY)and the City University of New York (CUNY). The tuition at SUNY and CUNY schools have i'emained virtually the same in the past few years. 'The current SUNY tuition is $1;075 and the current annual taxpayer eost of education per student at SUNY colleges is $6;231. The taxpayer cost for students in the independent sector is $840. The SUNY and CUNY schools receive 60 percent of their funding from the State, whereas independent colleges receive only six per- cent funding from the State. By the proposed _ budget, the students at SUNY and CUNY - schools would be obligated to absorb a greater portion of their costs. Even though the Governor proposes a $250 proposed tUition increase in SUNY tUition and a $150 increase in CUNY tUition, he also proVided for a buffer by a proposed $15 million increase in TAP. ''Thus, if a SUNY family has a net income of $14,000 to $25,000 they will not feel the tuition hike,\ stated Michael Caruso. The total tuition hike that students at independent colleges have faced over the last three years is comparable to the total tuition that a student at SUNY pays. Caruso stated that at the present time, ''it ·is not politically wise to scream for a TAP increase with SUNY fightmg in opposition of their $250 tuition increase.\ \We feel that what the Governor needs right now is praise. We (ISC) support the higher education portion of the Governor's budget. It is sensitive to the needs of the independent sec- tor,\ stated Caruso. He· also emphatically stressed that ''we are fighting for a limited pool of State resources.\ This fight is so fierce that SASU (Student Association of the State University) mounted a 300,000 student lobby .against private colleges. \They mounted an ad cam- paign declaring . that it is a waste of time to aid independent Continued on page

0 - co .c a. \C ... 0 u u ~ Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, Feb!'1JI!IrY e4, 1983 W.M. Murphy, Thomas Lamont Professor of Ancient and- Modern Literature, will retire after 37 years. ISC Convenes Co11tinued from· page 1 colleges without affecting the schools. In addition, the quality of education at SUNY,\ representatives discUssed the he added. · position the ISC should take After hearing about how concerning tne po,~sibility of powerful SASU can be, one increasing the drinking age to student aske~ Carus.o how ef- 21. fective the ISC is. He responded A student from the College of honestly by stating that at the St. Vincent spoke in favor of moment, the ISC is not as ef- stricte.r driving laws. A student · fective as he hopes it will be in from Syracuse University the future. He stated that, \We. stated that, \There shoUld be don't have the resources and we stricter laws on businesses that are not visiting legislators sell liquor.;, One student enough. We are only operating reiterated the position of the on a $50,000 budget. Because of ISC by stating that alcohol is a the lack of resources and the cultural problem. Michael fiscal constraints, we are forced Caruso stated, \that the ISC to spend time on one issue - advocate.s to try to make financial aid.\ drinking unacceptable.\ One When asked about the future program instituted at C.W.Post goals of the ISC, he stated that: College on Long Island to 1. \We want to establish a minimize drunk driving was to credible internship program, provide transportation back to which we think we can have.\ the dorms from tbeir spring 2. \We want to expand our formal. These programs and income base. We need a decent other data will be compiled into amount of contributions. Last a booklet and, if they receive a year we received $20,000 in grant, it will be published by the membership dues and we have summer. received $40,000 in dues thus far Maybe the most important this year.\ topic discussed was National 3. \We have to find other Lobby Day, which will be on funding sources. We hope to March 7. At the Lobby Day last receive this through the ISCRF year,. of the 5,000 students who (Independent Student Coalition marched on Washington, 1,800 Research Foundation) and were from ISC represented through corporate support. schOols. Michael Caruso em- The ISCRF is an entity of the · phatically stated that, \We ISC that \undertakes projects, have to make a statement. With and conducts programs that are our presence we will show that focused on increasing the roles we are keeping an eye on what and responsibilities of students the Administration is doing.\ as members of their higher David · W arager said that last education communities and year one Congressman stated society as a whole.'' In addition, that the march \was the largest if the ISCRF receives the 501c3 group to come and lobby on an tax exempt status, which is still issue since Vietnam . . . very pending with the Internal tactful.\ There were 29 Revenue Service, it will Republicans who stood on the facilitate their quest· for Capitol steps in support of foundation support. At the student financial aid. present moment, they are Michael Caruso stressed the seeking a starter grant so that following: \There is more they can establish a base. professionalism in the stud~nt \When this is established,\ movement. We can compromiSe .David Warager stated, \we can our appearance without com- sell other projects to get stable promising the issues. Tbere is a funding.\ more educate~ stud~nt leader He mentioned that they would today. There 1s nothing wrong like $75,000 for an intern. with student activism. right placement project. \We need · now. We have the media. We independent students in ~he hav~ t~ set the tone _that \:e are State Legislature. The majonty a distmct generation With a of the students in the Assembly distinct voice from that of 10 or intern program are from SUNY 15 years ago.'' schools. We have to be more There is an expect~tion of 500 represented.\ students i!l Washmgton on The major issue is that March 7. Pr10rto Lobby Day, he ISCRF'sconcernatthemoment st~ted that t?e st~den!s sh?uld is alcohol awareness. Michael contact the .fmanc1al md officer Caruso stated that 20 percent to discuss the effects of more campuses are conducting financial aid cuts. \When you alcohol awareness programs. go into the Congressman's At the meeting, the represen• office, give a humanistic ~de of tatives from the different the story. Talk of your ability or schools exchanged ideas on the. lack of ability to. continue your alcohol awareness programs education if the' proposed instituted at their respective budget goes through.'' PARENTS WEEKEND May 6, 7, 8 Make yollr plans now! Profile: Wm. M. Murphy; Scholar to Retire By MARCV: BURSTINER News Editor After 37 years of teaching in the English Department at Union, William M. Murphy, Thomas Lamont Professor of Ancient and ModemLiterature, bas announced that he will retire at the end ofspring term. Murphy, who received a B.A., M.A.,. and PhD. from Harvard University came to Union in 1946 as an Assistant Professor of English. In 1960, he was appointed full professor and in 1978 became the third person to receive the Thomas · Lamont Award since 1948. Co-urse on Darwin Professor Murphy. wUl be teaching three courses for his · last term here. Among the three is a colirse· offered twice in the past ·entitled ''The Impact of Darwinism on the Modern World.\ According to Murphy, the course addresses the issue of \man's Understanding of himself,'' in relation to the introduction of Darwin's Theory of Evolution in 1859. It examines works by people who had defected from many areas of study such as, philosophy, economics, psychology, religion, politics, and sociology as a result of Darwin's tbeories. Students in the course will read writings by such people as Tennyson, Arnold, Browning 1 Jack London, Frank Norris, Nietzsche, and Camus, to name a few. The professor; . who is an established authority on Irish Literature, has written several books on the Yeats family. The most prominent of these was his publication of Prodigal Father: The Life of John Butler Yeats 1839 - 1922, which was highly praised in the New York Times Book Review, the L.A. Times and other newspapers and magazines .. Plans for Rettrement When asked why, after 37 years of teachipg, he has ~ow decided to retire, he replied, that at the age of 67, according to the ''old ruleS''he would have been· forced to retire. · \I've had my time in court,\ he explained. . . ''I have enough scholarly work to ·work on until I'm ninety years old,... he added. As for his plans for retirement, Murphy explained that there are many books he has 'not had the time to read and that he might perhaps take another tour of Europe with his wife. Although he has been there before, he explained that he has yet to visit such countries as Portugal and Scandinavia. When asked why he made the decision to teach at Union back in 1946, he replied, . \They of- fered rne a job.\ · · . \Who can say whether I made the right decision or pot?'' he speculated. . After coming here, he became involved in politics. in the local area running unsuccessflllly for Congress in 1948, th~ State Senate in '56, and the State . Assembly in '59. He ~lso managed several campaigns for Sam Stratton, then mayor pf Schenectady. In addition· he served for a time on the Schenectady Municipal Housing Authority and the New York State Advisory Committee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. Views on Trimester System Upon being asked for his views on the proposed change' of the college calendar to a semester system, the professor cm:runented that when looking at the · subject .from an educational point- of view the semester system is \infinitely preferable.\ He explained that in a lti-week term, not only are there five extra weeks., but those additional weeks include . 35 extra days and nights for the students to think about the material they are studying. Under the present system, students cover the same amount .of materia}1 but do not have the time to ponder tbat which they read. . He also added though, that when one looks at it from a scholarly point ot View, the trimester system has tremendous benefits for faculty members. According to the professor, be would not have been able to publish his latest book if Union did not have the · three-term system. Women at Union Another topic he was asked to comment on was tne entry of women into Union College. Although he has been accused .bY some as ~in~ a ~ale chauvinist, his immec:hate response to the subject of ' women at Union. was one of staunch support. He remarked that he had peen in favor of a coeducational campus from the beginning and had' fought to have women on the faculty. Although hi! was quick to comment that he does not want to seem prejudicial, he. feels that women ate better students than men and seem to do the work more diligently. !t used to be, he explaitied, that men went to college becaW3e they had to have a degree in order to get a job. But when a woman 1iYante~ to continue her education,. 1t represented a great sa~rifice to the family. After all, m tho~e , days, he went on, sh~ would stlll end up getting marne~ whether or not a woman had . an education. He reiterated the fact that he is a strong defender of equal rights for women and has always been in ~avor of abortion, contra<;eptwn~. and other controversial subJects that, in his opinion, should. be left up to the woman to decide. Up1m hearing ?f . the professor's planned retlr.eme~t, many students seemed quite distressed. After 37 years of teaching, it cannot be deni,ed that the loss of the noted scholar on the Union faculty will be one that will be felt by the entire community. Robotics Tied to Economy By MIKE ANZENBERGER Staff The people of America have recognized a multitude of problems leading to the terrible recession gripping our country today, not the least of which is a great decrease in productivity._.. Recently, however, technological and economic developments have made factory automation affordable to many manufacturers~ James Baker (Vice President of Technical Sector for General Electric) addressed this issue in the third in a series of Freedom Forum lectures at Lintpn High School. . . Baker's Darwinian theory for· the U.S. economy states that firms of the United States have three choices in the '80s: to automate, emigrate, or evaporate. Increased labor costs relative to the rest of the world have placed the price (and profit) of American goods at a poor level. A mass exodus of U.S. companies would spell economic, social and political turmoil · for !our country. Therefore, according to Baker, U.S. firms have only one choice to secure their long-term economic welfare - automate their factories in order to in· crease productivity., quality, and price competition. Airn.ost everyone is concerned with the issue of job displacement due to facto~y automation. However~ Baker claims that historically in- creased productivity growth has meant lower unem- ployment. Also, economic theory predicts that produc- tivity is an important deter- minant of lasting ;improvements in real income per worker. Nonetheless, automation must occur, if only to bring back the competitive edge to the United · States. Mr. Baker (and interestingly Douglas Fraser - Pr~sident of the UAW), have neglected to portray the true impact of automation on the unskilled worker of the United States. It will be evident in coming years that there will be no place for the unskilled worker in the factory o( the future. Con- sequently, Mr. Baker's factory of the future , may bring economic salvation to this country, but at a cost of· -a number of social problems arising from the unemploYIIlent of unskilled work~rs. For further information concerning the consequences, . read Kurt Yonnegut's Player Piano. Recommendations relating to ~the· third year evaluations for Elizabeth Lane, Head of Technical_ Processes, and Zina Shevchik, Government Documents and Ref4trence Librarian, Schaffer library, are now being accepted. All interested students, faculty, and staH are encouraged to contact Professor Seeman at the • Library, x62l8._ .........~~--~--illilllilllliiB-----~ ........ - ] .2 0 .c Q > u 11: ...J

•• ' that 1m a the has culty the have a test e the :ed to ry ef lege, ~used male diate :t · of 1e of lrked ·of a nthe ~t to ;y, :k to want feels dents o the :edto went ad to get a anted In,. it ice to those d still tether l an l the ~nder 1 and etr of , and jects be the of one to of It for the -a E 0 .s::: 0. >.. u 10 ..J !/1 ·-= .s:: u CON.CORDlJUNSJS, February .e.; .. 198t Page 3 Huntley Lectures V aloes By JAN BARAN Staff · Last Tuesday C. William Huntley, a Gilbert R. Livingston Professor of ~sychology, presented the Umon College Faculty Colloquium · Inaugural Address on \Student Values Revisited.\ By classifying people into these six categories, one can discover many consistent differences between the two sexes (women tend to tit more in the aesthetic or social :types whUemen tend to fit more in the political, economic, or theoretical types) and among college students (Bennington College in Vermont seems to have an abnormally high aesthetic count). Later during his lecture, Professor Huntley showed ho:w he and a former ·student at Union, Francine DaVis (class of 1982}, related this analysis of ideal types to the Union .corn- .munity. The main question of this re~earch was the foli<>wing: provoking, questions. Does a college change a student's values or are the values rein.- ·forced. by a. student's selection of courses? In trying to answer this question, Professor Huntley indicated that a college tends to consolidate or \accentuate\ a student;s values. ''A consistent intercore of value structure\ exists which-is. reinforced by the coursestakenduringthe college years. In concluding his talk, Pl!ofessor Huntley alSo men- tioned that the alumni who were most ·. content with their job mcluded the physicians, while the least content were the engineers. Finally, the aspect of the job most valued by these alumni was not income,. but challenge and Yariety. Professor C.W. Huntley presented the Faculty Colloquium address on \Student Values Rev.isited.\ · Professor Huntley first PQsed the interesting question, \In describing another p.erson, what categories does one \Uie?\ In describing John, for_ example, one could say that he is good.natured, energetic, bold, concerned with others,. or self. seeking. As a result, this .question that appears to be simple may have many com- plex connotations; Once the individual ·has reached post- adolescence, the questions about his life focus on his in- tentions and where he is headed. The familiar Phrase, \What are you going to do with your life?\ fhat is asked of most college studentsj applies here. · Is there a correlation between the scores on the undergraduate personality tests talten in the 1950's and . the scores of the. same people taken twenty-five years later? This question raises the possibility tliat one 3 s values as an undergraduate will remain basically unchanged twenty-five years later. Women's. Rights Dramatized - . Professor Huntley indicated that each personality has .a .particular ''port ofestimation,'' or set of values, surrounding him. A ·rather noteworthy point is that most suicide victims do·· not. seem to have this \port of destination.'·' In order to answer this complex question more fully, Professor Huntley relied upon Edward Spanger's analysis which suggests that people tend to strive tow~d six ideal types. . The six types discussed by Professor Huntley include the following: 1). the theoretical type in which the dominant interest is the discovery of truth; 2). the economic type who 'is concerned with the useful; 3). tne aesthetic who concentrates on the \beauty\ of things; 4). the social type who places its highest value on the love of people; 5). the political type who is concerned with pure . power; and 6). the religious type who tries to comprehend the universe as a whole. In order to tesf this hypothesis, Profe~sor Huntley and Francine Davis conducted a survey of all alumni twenty• five years after they graduated from Union. · These surveys were similarly conducted when the students were freshmen at Union and right before they graduated, as part of an advising program. The occupations of the 532 people who returned the questionnaires fit into seven basic categories (law, business, secondary School teacbing·, science, engineering, medicine, and college teaching) e~cept for a few notable exceptions in- cluding two farmers, an hn- bassador, and a rabbi psycho- therapist. The strong correlation of the results showed that a person tends to rate himself twenty-five years later with basically the same set of values that he had as a senior in college. This study poses further, perhaps · more thought- \Seneca Falls 1848: All Men and Women Are Created EqQal, '' a dramatization of the first convention for women's tights and to honor Women's History Week, will be presented Saturday, March5, 2:.30 p.m., in Social Science 016. This dramatization, which depicts scenes .from Elizabeth Cady Stanton's early life in Johnstown, is a project of the Elizabeth Cady Stanton Foundation which was organized in 1978 to purchase the endangered Elizabeth Cady Stanton home in Seneca Falls. Today the home is the focal point of the fledgling Women's Rights National Historical Park. .. The play, which is being performed in several com- munities .. in . t.l:te state, was written by Stanton FoWldation trustee Mrs. Elizabeth C. Shultis. · The performance is being organized locally by Elizabeth - Worden and is sponsored by the American Association of University Women and the L Nuclear limitation debate between- Professors Weiner a11d Lewis may getoutofhand ... The Political Scie~ce D~partment and the International Relations Club Present: ' 1 Perspectives on Nu·clea,r Arms Li.mitation''. ' . - A De·bat,e ·- Moderator: Professor Clifford Brown of the Political Science Departme~t Presentations by: Professor lerry Weiner of the Monday Feb. 28 Sociology Department and Professor Bradley Lewis of the Economics Department at 4 p.m. ss 115 President's Commission. on the Status of Women at Union College. . It will consist of a recreatipn in dramatic form of the First Convention for Women's Rights which took place in Seneca Falls in 1848; The dramatization is designed to play for audiences in communities in diverse areas of New York State, enlisting them directly in debating the historic., . philosophical, and cultural issues raised at the convention,. issues which set in motion the American Woman's Movement. The format lncludes a per- manent traveling cast of 1'2 players, who will take the roles of those planning and leading - the convention. The participants at the convention will also be made up of at least 18 members of the audience coinmunity, AAUW members, and Union College students, who will be respon- sible for debating the issues raised in the resolution in~ troduced at this historic con- vention. Mr. Mars Hill, a playwright and actor in the Capital District, will play the part· ef Frederick Douglas. Dr. Catherine Clinton, Asst. Prof. of History, will present the epilogue. The pilot presentation was performed in June at tbe Ithaca Festival, followed by a per~ formance in July at the Seneca Falls Convention Da~. The persons in the case will be asked to debate each resolution. The format calls for an initial exposition of events leading up to the convention and this series of episedes will be dramatized by the touring cast and will build dramatic action culminating in the convention. At the opening of the con- vention scene, the conununity cast will take its place and after some oratory, the six principal resolutions will be placed before the convention. And that's where the participants talre over, debating, commenting upon, sh!lking their fists at, supporting or opposing each resolution as it comes up. An epilogue type of com- mentacy on the consequences m the convention, will be provided. The event is being held free of charge. A reception will follow in the Banquet Room of Car- negie Hall. Assembly Internship Program Offered The Assembly Summer Intern program provides an opportunity for 10 to 20 students to work on research. projects supervised by Assembly professional research staff. It takes place at The Capitol in Albany, New York, for the weeks of June 13 J through August 19, 1983. The program provides for a stipend of $2,000 and the deadlin.e for ap- plications is Aprill. All conege students who have completed tbeir junior year by June 191l3 may apply. All ap- plicants must be matriculated in degree programs (as seniors or graduate students) for the 1983;.&1 academic year. Only New York State residents may apply and students who have participated in the Assembly Scholars, Session or Swnmer Intern Program may not apply. The Swnmer Intern Program is very competitive with only 10.. 20 P.9sitions available each ·year. Applicants should have superior academic records, strong research and analytic , skills, and a d.efinite interest in public policy development and the functions of the legislature. In order to apply all ap- plications and all required suppor~ing documents must be submitted in .a complete package and it must be post- marked by April 1, 1983. The Intern Program cannot take the responsibility for supporting documents sent separately. The following supporting documents are required: ... Official transcripts of all college course work completed and in progress. --Two letters of recom- mendation discussing the ap- plicant's research skills, character, understanding of the governmental process, and familiarity with particular public policy areas. Letters should be requested only from people who have directly ob- served and evaluated the ap- plicant's skills, character, and areas of knowledge as described above. - Two copies of the personal statement (question 12) and policy memo (q~estion 13). Applications will be screened and a selected group of students will be interviewed in Albany. Unfortunately, travel expenses will not. be reimbursed, Specific early May intet-vlew dates will be set by the Committee and acceptances will be made by Mav 21.

Page4 OONOORDIEN:SIS~ Fcbr114ry B4, 1988 FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular, \day\ undergraduate E.S. 43-lntrod~ction to Semiconductor Devices & Circuits courses. A separate schedule .for GradiUlte Studies and Continuing Education courses . Sec. 1-Chang, SH100 . . Will be tmnounceQ, and students in ·~section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the S'ec. 2-Ha5$ib, .SHllO announ~em~nt of the exam time for those courses. C.E. 1()-.lntroduction to ComrnWlications-Griggs,. :autoo Conflicts m examinations should be reJ)(nted to Mrs. D' Ainato in the Office of the .C.S. t3()...Data Structures-Federtghi, BU204 Registrar not later than March 4, 1983. · · · Examinations Will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed. below iS the code of the WEJ>NESDA Y, MARCH 16 - 9:00..11:00 a.m. buildings to be used. · · · · Freslunan Preceptorial tO-Perception .andPersua~:~ion, Sec. 4-J. Boyer; SSOlO AB- Arts Building EH-Bailey }{all Jm~Butterfield Hall HU-Humanities Building · N-North Wing, Sci.~Eng. Center OC--.,.Qld Chapel PY -Psychology Laboratory S8---Social Science Building SH-steinmetz Hall CH-carnegie Hall Latin 11-Principles of ~tin-To}Jer .... HU014 Economics 10-Elementary Economics, Sec. 3-Klein, SS012 Economics 11--Elementary Econcm1ics, Sec. 3....Schmidt, SS117 'English 23--The American Short Stoty-Gado, SS016 English 71--Literature of the Irish Renaissance-Murphy, HOllO Hi~tory 2~ontemporary America-Jones, SS113 History 142-Conservatism, Liberalism, and Socialism--Hansen, SSU5 ·MONDAY, MARCH U • 9:00.11:00 a.m. French 11-Basic French II-Warger, HUU4 · Fresbman Preceptorial10..:Perception and Persuasion, Sec. l~Tharsing, HU112 German 11--Basic. German II-Kellenter, HUll2 . Classics 30-Greek and Roman Drama in. 'rranslation-sorwn, HU117 Spanish 11-Basic Spanish II-..Vinick, HUU7 English 35-Studies in World Literature: .Myth in Literature-Frazier, HU116 Spanish 132-Introduction to Spanisb Literature-Ginsberg, HU116 History 12-Prebistory: A Study of the Origins of Man and Society-.M. Dawson, HU115 Philosophy 20-Classical Logie-Kaminsky, HU115 History 24-History of the South-Clinton, SS010 ~ ' Political Science 11-Contemporary American Pblifics-Tidmarch, SS112 History 41-Medieval Europe: Charlemagne. to Dante-Sargent, SS012 · Biology 144....Cytology--5mith,. BH102 · French 133-The French Language in Pradical U sel, Sec. 1-LeCalvez, HUUO Chemistry lo-F'undamental Chemistry I German 133-TheGerman Language in Practical Use I-Kellenter, I:IU114 Sec. !....Schaefer; BU204 Russian 11-Basic Russian II-Jemakoff, HU014 Sec. 2--Weick, BU204 Political Science 12-Contemporary International Politics, Sec. 1-Gati, SS117 . Mathematics 18--lntroduction to Logic;and Set Theory...;Taylor, BH20l Political Science 44-Japanese Political' Behavior-Thurston, SS113 Mathematics 32--Abstract Algebra 1-Zimm.ertnan, BH108 Political Science 50-Theories of International Relations-Brown, SS112 Physics 11-Introduction to P.hysics I, Sec, 2 ... Peak,. SH:no (Engineering, Chemistry, Sociology 136--Poverty and Public Policy.:...Weiner, SS014 Mathematics and Physics Majors) , · Anthropology 12-Prehistory: A Study ofthe Origins of Man & Society-M. Dawson, Physics 134-Physical Optics-Jones, SHlOO HUU5 ·Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 3-8pring, PY113 Biology 21-Biology .of Animals-Core .I .... Roth, B. Boyer, BH108 Psychology 30-Personality--Nydegger, PY102 Biology 62-World Agriculture-George, Tobiessen, BH104 · Psychology 46-Introduction to Psychobiology--Markiewicz, PY2l3 Biology 162-lntroduction to Neurobiology-Lambert, Olberg, Nll6 E.S. 2()-.Mechanics II-Panlilio, SH101 Biology 17o-General and Comparative Endoc;rinology-Butterstein, BH207 E.S. 26-Thennodynamics and Heat Transfer-Ketchum, N210 Chemistry 154-Physical Chemistry III-Ailderson, N222 E.S. 33--Fluld Systems Analysis-JeweU, BU106 . Mathematics 28-Probability-Barbanel, BH201 . C.E. 143-Dynamics of Linear Systems-Kennedy, Nl16 Mathematics 148-Advanced Calculus 11-Fairchild, BH102 Physics 13-Introductionto Physics II, Sec. 3-Davis, SHllO (Engineering, Chemistry, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16 • 2:00-4:00 p.m. Mathematics and Physics Majors) Economics 11-Elementary Economics, Sec. 4-J. Dawson, SS117 Physics t20-Introduction to Astronomy and Astrophysics-Schick, SH106 Russian 134-The Russian Language in Practical Useii-Jemakoff, HUllO Psychology 10--A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 4-Lipton, PY113 Chemistry 32-0rganic Chemistry II Psychology 33-Psychology of Memory a11d Thinking-Greenberg, PY213 Sec. 1--Martin, BU204 Psychology 62-Practicum in Human Relations 1-Girdner, PY204 Sec. 2-Hull, BU204 E.L.L. t2-Homes, Buildings & Engineering Principles--Harlow, BU109 E.S. 22....Science of Engineering Materials-Milillo, BU109 E.L.L. 21-stereo, Television and Electronics-Craig, BUZ04 C.E. 128-Structures I--Lakhanpal, BU104 · E.S. 22....Science of Engineering MaterialS-Eisenstadt, BH203 · C.S. 18-Introduction to Computer Organization E.S. 30-Mechanics of Deformable Solids-Burke,. BU106 Sec. 1-Craig, BH207 . E.S. 10-Mechanics I-Guntur, BH106 Sec. 2--Hassib, BH201 · E.E. 144-Communications Systems I-Cha11g, SS115 C.S. 135-Qperating Systems, Hannay, BH201 A.O.P. 10-Pre-Calculus Mathemattcs-Yeater, BH102 . MONDAY, MARCH 14 • 2:90-4:00 p.m. Biology 24-Genetics and Evolution-Butzel, J. Boyer, BU109 THURSDAY! MARCH 1'i - 9:00-11:00 a.m. · Chemistry 142-Chemical Instrumentation-Werner, BU106 Chemistry lei-Scientific Creativity...oScaife, BU106 Mathematics 20-Mathematical Methods for the Social Sciences, Sec. 1...;Bick, BH108 Mathematics 12-Calculus II Mathematics 20-Mathematical Methods for the Social Sciences, Sec. 2...Stone, BH203 Sec. 1-Rosenthal, BH207 Sec. 5-Bick BH104 Sec. 8-Zimmerman, SS112 Math~matics20-Mat~ematical~ethods forthe.SocialSciences, S~c. 3-!~'iefield, ~H106 Sec. 2-st~ne, ~H108 Sec. 6-Muckenfuss, BH205 Sec. 9-Taylor, BU109 Phystcs 13-IntroductiOn to Phys1cs II, Sec. 2-Pilcher, SHllO (Engmeenng, Chenustry, Sec. 3-Falrchild, BU204 Sec. 7-Barbanel BH201 Sec. 10-Niefield, BH106 Mathematics and Physics Majors) · Sec. 4-Fairchild, BU2Q4 · ' E.S. :n-Electrical Circuits and Devices I, Sec. 1-Russ, BH201 . Mathematics 14-Calculu5 III E.S. 31-Electrical Circuits and Devices I, Sec. 2-Branch, BH207 Sec. 1-Maddaus, SSl15 Sec. 2-Zwicker, BH203 Mathematics 30-0rdinary Differential Equations . TUESDAY, MARCH 15 • 9:00-11:00 a.m. Sec. 1-Maddaus. SS115 Sec. 2-Rosenthal, BH207 Sec. 3-Gillette. BH102. Freshman Preceptorial 10-Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 3-Hartwig, SSOlO E.S. 18-Introduction to Digital Computers-Gajjar, SHUO Freshman Elective 45-The Last Wilderness: The Human Mind-Huntley, BH102 Greek 11-Principles of Greek...oSorum, HU119 THURS~AY, MARCH t7- 2:00-4:00 p.m. · Ec()nomics 10-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-J. Dawson, SS012 Econ_orrucs 138-:-Quantit~tive Methods in Economics-Klein, SS113 Ec()nomics 11-Elementary Economics,-Sec. 2-Kenney, SS117 Eng~sh 20-M_aJor English Authors II: Milton-Keats-Frazier, HU114 Ec()nomics 40-Labor Economics-Prosper, SS112 E!lglish '82-Nmeteenth Century Novel-Marten HU117 · ·Economics 42-Macroeconomic Theory artd Polley-Kershner, SS113 Hlstory 8 4-The S~ientifi<: R~volution: 1~1700-sargent, SS115 English tO-Fundamentals ofComposition-N'elson, HU113 German l44-Sp~clal Topic m the TWentieth Century-Mache, HU112 English 11-Btrategies of Expository Writing-Frazier, HU016 Hebr~w 11-BaslC Hebrew II-Heckelman, HU116 · English 43-Humanities: Middle Ages and Renaissance-FreWld, HUllO , Sp<;1msh 143-The Contemporary Spanish Novel-DiSalvo, HUUO English 55-Shakespeare to 1600-Murphy, HU114 Ph~~sophy .17....Sex and Society-Baker, HU115 · History t7-The Civil War Era; 1815-t877-Clinton, HU117 Po~tical Sc1ence 66-Presidential Politics-Daniels, SS112 History 45-The Second World War Era-Hansen, SS115 Soci~l~gy 133-Personality and Social Structure-Kaplan, SS117 French 10-Basic French 1 1 LeCalvez, HU014 S~atistics tO-Introduction to Statistics-Schmee BH201 French 138-A Survey of French Literature !-McDermott, HU116 Btology ]:56 .... Topics in :Oevel()pmental Biology, Rappaport, SlUOO German tO-Basic Gennan I++Warde, HU112 Psychology 38-D~v~lopmental Psychology--Benack, PY'213 Spanish 10-Basic Spanish I, Sec. 2-DiSalvo, HU019 Psychology 49-Climca! Models of Psychotherapy IT-Dowling, PY113 Political Science 29:- The Western Politieallleritage: Luther to Lenin-Board, SS014 Psychology 50-Educational Psychology-Girdner, PY204 Sociology 10-Introduction to Sociology-Weiner, HU115 FRIDAY, MARCH 18- 9:00-11:00 a.m. · Biology 16-Introduction to Biology I-'I'obiessen, Schadler, SS016 . Econom!cs tO-Elementary Economics, See. 1-Prosper, SS115 Biology 160-Functional Histology and Organology-Roth, BH207 Econon:ucs 11-Elementary Economics, Sec. 1-Lewis, SS117 Geology tO-Physical Geology-Zimmennan, BU204 . Economics 31-Microeconomic Analysis-Reynolds, SS112 Mathematics 10-Calculus I-Muckenfuss, BH201 · Economics 144-International Economics-Phaup SS113 Mathematics 136-Real Variable Theory I-Zwicker, BH104 Spanish 10-Basic Spanish I, Sec. 1-Vinick HU1l0 Physics 11-Introcuction to Physics I-Kryzak-8Hll0 (Biology, Science, Humanities Biology 18-Introductiort to Biology 11-Lanibert Frohlich SS016 and ~ocial Science Majors) . . . ~ . . . . . . Biolo~y 24-Genetics and EvQlutio~-Butzel, J. Boyer, ,:3H2o7 ·. Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II-DaVIS, SH106 (Biology, Science, Humamties anc CheiDlStry t2-FW1damental Chennstry II-Anderson Foust Scaife Schaefer-BU204 Social Science Majors) . . Physics ll;_Introduction to Physics I, Sec. 1-Reich, SHllO (Engin~ering Chemistry Physics 36-Methods of Theoretical Physks-Newman, SHlOO Mathematics and Physics Majors) ' ' Psychology10-AFU:st~CourseinPsy~hology+l;lec. ~alabria, PY213 Physics 13:-Introductio~ to Physics II, Sec. 1-Titus, SH106 (Engineering, Chemistry, Psychology 20-Stabstlcal Methods m Psychology-Greenberg, PY213 Mathematics and Phys1cs Majors) Psychology 31-Abnormal Psychology-Nydegger, PY102 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec.1-Markiewicz, PY1t3 E.S. 10-Mechanics I-Weiss, BU106 ·Psychology 24-Social Psychology-Lipton, PY21S E.S. 26-Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer-Burke, BU109 Psychology 34-The Psychology of Language-D'Andrea; PY103 E.S. 33-Fluid Systems Analysis-Ketcilurn, N210 C.E. 160-:-Transportation Engineering-Griggs, BU109 E.E; 148-Digital Circuits I-.Kump, SHtOl TUESDAY, MARCfll5 • 2:01).-4:00 p.m. Economics 145-Managerial Economics-Kenney, 88113 . History 196-8eminar: The Second Industrial Revolution-Finkelstein, SS117 · . German 13&-Early Twentieth Century German Literature-Mache, HUllO Philosophy 31-Medieval Philosophy-Peterson, HU114 Philosophy 45-Aesthetics-Patrik, HU116. , Political Science 52-Soviet Foreign Policy-Gati, SS112 Anthropology 129-Medical Anthropology-Goforth, HU117 Statistics ll~Introduction to Statistical MethodB-\Lambrinos BH201 .Accounting 10-Financial Accounting-Burley, BH207 Psychology 35-Industrial-Organizational Psychology-Upton, PY)13 Psycho,ogy 45-Experimental Psychology II-Huntley, PY204 C.S. 37-8truct1lred Programrning-Wong 1 Bli201 FRIDAY, MARCH 18- 2:004:00 p.m. Arts 183....Seminar in. Music Theory-Tann, AB320 Latin 14b·Ronum Historiography-Tohet, HU112 E~glish 192...oSeminar: Fiction-Tharsing, Ht1116 Htstory 64-The Role of Business in U.S.-Latin American Rel.ations-Briston SS112 French 133-The French Language in Practical Use I, Sec. 2-Warger, HU110 Fr~nch 141-:From the Age of Louis XIV to the Age of Voltaire-McDermott, HU117 Political Science 12-Contemporary International Politics Sec. 2-Brown SS115 Political Science Got-Congressional Politics-Tidmarch, sS113 ' C.S. 11-Fortran Programming for the Social Sciences--Schwarz BH207 C.S. 12-Programming for the Sciences-Schwarz, BH205 ' ·

- OONOOBDlENSlS, Febmary !4, 198~ Charter .Bus.· Servlce By DAPHN'·ECHIGAS Staff ' Does traveling home for the spri~~ break . at ·. a cost significantly 'lower than. what most major · transportation compan~es c·harge. sound tempting to yo-u? Such a ser- vice;. in the .form of Parker Hill Transportation,. is now available foD Union 'StUdents1 Bart9n Hill, chairman of the Finance Committee, has chartered bus~s to run round trip to .such places · as Boston, Long Island, and Westchester County. These buses, according to Hill, are not limited tEr their predestinated . stops. They .-will make stops wherever the_re is a great enoug~ de~and. . This servtce w~ll operate at ~ rates that undercut GreyhoWld and Trailways. For example, a round trip ticket to J.A)ng, Island will seU at a cost of ten dollars · less than Greyhound. The buses will depart from l.]'nion on the last day:J of fmals and wiU retUl11 the Sunday before the beginning of spring tetr:n. Hill feels that there is a need for just such a- bus company proyiding inell:pensive and convenient travel for Union students. ·He stressed the fact that most of the schools he knows have similar bus com• panies and have been quite successful. The Dudley Observatory is located on Union Avenue. ..,. 'rickets for this round trip. ~ervice are availaple frl)m Barton Hill at either the Student Activities Booth in Catn~gie Halt or at his room, 301 .Fox: _ Part ll Page 5 FEATURES . . . . . [Foreign Lan~agef .Looking To. Th~ Stars \.• SEATTLE, WA (CPS)~The University of \Washington has become the first' school in the country to allow students to use American Sign Language to meet foreign language ad- missions requirements. Washington had previously refused to consider Ameslan, as the sign language is often called,. because it wasn~t a . \natural language,\ according to Michael Magie of UW's ad· missions office. But the university changed its nilild on February. 1st,_ Magie reports, and determined Ameslan evolved out of a cultme of· its. ()wn. · At the same time, the university refused to approve computer language as a sub- stitute for a foreign language; Computer language, Magie ', says, \will ~ot count. It is not a natural language.'' Washington requires in- coming students to have two year$' of a foreign language; -... Magie estimates tftere ate \maybe . a dozen or so deaf students on campus,\ whose foreign language.,._ requirements' had prev(ously been bandied on \a .case-by-case basis.\ He points out the new policy also applied to: \students who want to be interpreters for the de~ and hearing impaired.\ Students can also use Ameslan to meet new foreign language requirements, which will go into effect in.1985 or 1986. However, they'll have to have learned Ameslan elsewhere. Washington does not have an Ameslan progr:am on the camptts. ByDAVEFITZGERALD Staff 'this is the second of a two- part Series on UW,on College's little know• Dudley Obser- vat1)ry, Last week's article on the Dudley Observatory dealt with the early development of the observatory, -.and .some of tb~ many discoveries made in the ''early days.\ In some respects the most .successful days of the observatocy were the ''early · days\· of. the observatory. This second article on the ob- servatory . will deal with- the obsel'V'atory•s more recent history, from 196() on, and the future of the observatory. · In 1960, the observatory was again forced to move. The Out there in .the Ocean orr;;~ sunshine beach Probably: bec;ause of the price: $259 incluuing ai1 -there's going t6 be an outbreak ofrevelry this vacation fare and 7 nights hotel. break And after the.si:l~ goe~ down ... well, you know So there it is. young America. We guarantee you the the effe;ct th<tt moonhght ha~ on ~ FREEPORT best of dancing on the beach, water celeb~aoon. We can only hope It wont $ 2. s·. 9 * sports and a roaring party. · be a full moon. · · Beyond that, you've invited to lmpro- Because. in 1983 we're opening The · · .. . · vise. And since yourtalent for good tim- Bahamas to a wav~ of Americans. We NASSAU · ing is legendary, we've made prepara- have reason to. believe that waye may $ 2· g 9 * ·tionsJor you. We're going to be ready. reach tidal proportions. With open ar-ms. Bahamas, College Weeks Includes: \ Round-trip uir transportation from your hom~ city to the Elahamas. port add $:[ 0 for triple occupancy. S40 for double • 7 nights accommodaliC!_r in f~eeport <Th\ lsl.ander Hotel located occufancy. ·downtown next to -the t:.l c;asu)o atld oppot.1te the lntemationar • riote room tax · • • Sh_opplng Bazaar) or Nassau (Coral !.')each '(illas a resort l?<;a!<;d • 2 daY::ar rental per vma:(Nassatt o'n!Y) adJacenH\> the beach. Rooms·huve fullyeqwpped•kltchens, lovmg • ·GratUJ\Ies·for bellmen. cham!Jermaids and pool men roorns.al1dt:linlns area). Price based on q~ai:l occuparwy. f'orF ree- • Round,trip transf~s from alrpon ln•!3nharnas to yotlf hotel Special Activities: • Welcome h1anagl'rs cocktail party • limbo contest poolside ·• Plus in Nassau[ • free wind wrfing • scuba diving· • sailing and sr1orkeling lessons • fre~ admission to discos • volleyball witl; prizes • farewell chitken and ribs bar·t>·qm; • and mu<:h more! ,.., .. - ·-·-- -·.., ... - ..... -- _____ ,.. . .., ...... - ,. ·.F.· • · .· · .·\ Z12-3S5. -410.5/ B00·2?3·061J4 (reservatl.oris only) · I ~~·l·'iG@: Bah ... JDB$ College Week$ . 1 I . . . . . . . . . AP!l17.~APR ;!4 I · . . · . . . . . v:; MAll 06.-:MAJI. 13 : ; MAR :l't ~APR 03 . ~JU4-MAY 01 , · I ~~~~o!~I.:~~ATE ; : )!liAR '13-MAR 20 :~ APR 03-APR 10 plus Sunday depll'turoes I I r,01M~·diG<)Il Av\ni!A lc MAA 20•l'I:AR 2'1 '·'APR 10.-APR 17 all summer. I 1 Nt-t>N ·r,r~·- N. Y .. mor~2 ~ . _ . . . _ · I I Check One :·' Spec<PI: Oro$Yenor Court Hotel {with :)<ttchenettesJ on Par<1dise l6land onl) $.10 addi!lon<>l ·I· U F<eep<>rt · Check One . . I :: Na'l!l~u ... Scundsuooc). I've check the week l'want to party ond endose S50 deposit ·St!nd more Into I· 1: •Plus l~\'f1 ttt.Jt Mtl Sl:!rYiC:t!S. Wrke based on dc~Uirtme::. fJ9ffi,rt Y Add $40-from W<tShinHlon, Harttord. Phll~dNphin \IUd Be>slon) ·1 I :Name ··~~......,.__,_... . · --~-1 IAddte~s ---~~------------ ... --~·~. Dep~::~re City· __ . ----·····---· I . . . ~ ii: -~-:--.·;··t·~- .. :t;.;- iiiii .. 7£- --· :o:. uiiliiiiii'-----..a r Albany Medical Center, which happened to develop next to the observatory, purchased the land the observatory was on and tbe building itselt Since 1960 the observatory has not had an optical telescope. -Site number three for the observatory was on Fuller Road in Albany near SUNY. Although there were no facilities for viewing, the observatory was very busy doing research for NASA and in playing a major role in. SUNY Albany's graduate program in astronomy. While at the Fuller Road site the Dudley Observatory e:xperienced one of its two most prosperoul!l / period$. During this period, there were up to sixty scientists and researchers working on projects. The middle seventies spelled the beginning of hard times for Dudley. NASA funding was cut drastically and the astronomy program · at SUNY was shut down. Dudly was ·suddenly hit with the problems of not having money to carry on research or the skilled workers to do it. Most research going on at this time was forced to stop. There was no longer a need for the huge. Dudley Obser- vatory site on Fuller Road now, so move number four was needed. The fourth and current site for the Dudley Observatory is at 69 Union Avenue ·in Schenectady, very close to the college campus. This site is not conducive to research but currently the observatory is not conducting any on-site research. The observatory is funding some .projects. at other institutions. · At the Union Avenue site is the Dudley Observatory Libr.ary, which houses a large collection of rare books about astronomy in the 18th and 19th centuries. Many of the books are personal copies of the first director of the Dudley Obser- vatory. The Schaffer Library also houses some of the materials owned by Dudley. Although no scientific research is currently being done at Dud.ley,the observatory is financing a number of projects. For example, Professor Jan Ludwig is doing research at Dudley on the history of astronomy. Dudley also provides a number of services in the area of astronomy, to residents of the Capital District. One service is the financing of area students' admission to the Schenectady Planetarium. Another service is Skywatch Line, whtch is a recorded telephone message, which tells what is occurring in the sky on that night. The nwnber for Skywatch Line is 382-7584. The observatory still OWns one piece of valuable research equipment which is a radio telescope. This telescope is 100 feet in diameter and is fully steerable. It is located at Boulton Landing at Lake George. It was built and used in fire early 1970's for NASA research. Professor Ludwig hO.pes that it will someday be used but its location is a han- dicap. The Dudley Observatory has had a long and distinguished history in the field of astronomy. Union students are invited to visit the observatory and use its facilities at any time. It is certainly a place that will interest ahnost everyone. Union College ·coHe·eHouse FRIDAY, FEB. 25· 8:30 - Cabaret Rm. Kare·n· Weisgerber, David Havlland, and Gregg Meyers will be performing folK,, bluegrass, and a.ssorted.l.ittle ditties.

/ Page 6 OONOOBDIENSIS, February !4, 1989 FEATURES = Nuclear .Freeze Late Nite Bites To_ Eat By ERIC KERTZMAN One of the most important 'issues currently facing President Reagan and our entire nation is that of nuclear anns control. In a few weeks Congress will be voting on the Nuclear Freeze Resolution, which recommends to President Reagan a freeze on the deployment of any new nuclear weapons. The last titne this resolution was voted on was Hu·nger Strike By JULm BARETZ Jewish Prisoner of Con- science Anatoly Scharansky began a hunger strike on. Se.ptember 27 in Chistopol prison, a strict regime labor camp. His action was un- dertaken to protest the Soviet authorities' confiscation of his mail and their refusal to allow him to receive visits from his family, despite such allowances under the Soviet penal system. Many observers believe that the authorities, in art effort to keep Scharansky alive, have been \force feeding\ him with necessary nutrients. However, according to Losif Men«lelevich, a former Prisoner of Con- science who carried on a 54 day hunger strike during his lengthy incarceration, this procedure can be \more painful than a continuous hunger strike\ and is a \most fiercely sophisticated fonn of torture.\ Last week Scharansky voluntarily went off his hunger strike. While he has won the \right\ to' communicate with his family-but not necessarily to see them-he is still in prison and has been refused the right to go home or to go to Israel. Needless to say, the. importance of Anatoly Scharansky Day has not been diminished because of his decision: Having won his small victory, we would be playing right into the hands of the Soviets if we decreased pressure now. Yesterday over 800 students lobbied their Congressmen in Washington, and another 200 staged demonstrations in front of a variety of Soviet. in- stallations in the U.S.A. At Union twenty-eight people participated in an eighteen-hour fast to show their concern for Anatoly Scharansky and the two-and-a-half million Soviet Jews who have not been allowed to emigrate. The hunger strike at Union was part of a nationwide student hunger strike organized by the University Service Department of the· American Zionist Youth Foundation in conjunction with the Student Coalition for Soviet Jewry's Washington Lobby. PURIM PARTY Sat. Feb. 26 ·at 8:30 p.m. Bring your noisemakers to the Kosher Kitchen, West College •. Free Hamentashen Get Schicker With Us! August 6• 1982, when it lost by a vote of .20.j-;202. On March 7 and 8, 1983, a few days before. Congress~ will be voting on the Nuclear Freeze Resolution agafu, there will be a rally in Washington supporting the resolution. This rally has the potential to be politically ef- fective since it may .supply the momentum. needed for the Nuclear Freeze Resolution to, pass in Congress. Everyone· is encouraged to write letters supporting the Nuc1ear Freeze Resolution to Cong·ressional representatives. These letters will be taken to Washington for the rally.·on Lobby Day. The Upper Hudson Nuclear . Weapom; Freeze Campaign is sponsoring a freeze party today at 4:00· p.m. in the Banquet Room of Carnegie. Professors William Martin and Richard Shanebrook will speak iii favor. of the bi-lateral nuclear freeze proposal. The status of the current freeze campaign will also be discussed. . . By NORMAN BIRNBACH · Features Editor Late Nite Bites,. the newest alternative for late night eating since Seasons, opened last weekend in the Cabaret Room with little fanfare. Despite that Nite Bites has done well-just by •word of mouth. Late Nite Bites serves a variety of desserts but' ,no alcohol because the Student Forum and the college ad• p:ililistration thought students needed a place to go to sit and talk and not feel tHe need, the pressure, to drink. ' Nite Bites was started as an alternative night spot to the Pub and the Rathskeller~ :But it is more than that. The Cabaret Room has been transformed. The walls have been .painted yellow and the big, black CUI'tain behind the stage has been rempved. Most im- ' , ~ :; . portantfy, the masks have been taken down and replaced with plants. Theligh~ing.is soft .. And with a student playing the piano in the background, one almost · f,orgets the pretzels and the bad jokes that usually proliferate ,on Thursday nights .. \I think this place is nice,\ said freshman Debbie Snel, who ate there this weekend. \There are even flowers on-the .table.\ Others sitting at her table agreed. ·\This is a good pla<;e totake a date after a movie.,\ said one sophomore; who wished to remain anonymous until he found someone to take. \It's given me a whole new ap- proach. They sell milk here. So what I ask is, 'Hey babe. Can I buy you a glass of milk?'. It hasn't worked so far,\ he said, ''but I'm hoping.\ Right now, the menu is more .·.: . <::-· C . d' . ' . - .. ana···l&JI .. \·' .· ··::·.·-·. ;-:_._., limited than Director of Food Service Jan Grey would like, This is becam~e they are still testing the viability of operating yet ~other night spot. If all goes . well, there will be more variety. Right now, Nite Bites' selection · includes Mocha Cruncl). Cake, cheese cak.e, apple pie, and the popular chocolate c~ke. In the future Nite Bites might be able to offer some sort of vegetable platter as well as a broader selection of exotic coffees and teas. - The food is good. My favorite is chocolate cake with ice cream and a glass of milk. The cheese cake .has its fans, as does the Black Forest Cake. The - atmosphere is different from the Skeller, the Pub, and any fraternity party. The piano · playing is a very good idea. So. Ea~. enjoy! And hope that Late Nite Bites is here to stay. ••• ~ 1 ,_ • ·- --~ .• ( ··AVAILABLE AT THE DUTCH HOLLOW. PUB .... • ' - '<. ... • ~ •••• ......... .-.• • ~- •••• The finest ale brewed and bottled in Canada .. lmported by Martlet Importing Co.,'lnc., Gre~t Neck, N.Y.© 1982.

- • .. II g u ·e ~· ' 'I .r e if if If ~e :e le ~s 1e n lY lO OONOORDIENSIS, February 24, 1983· Page 7 .... .FEATURES \ tlumor ''The Cry_er'' .. By MA:TT NANKJ!tjl Staff . Note: The following editorial was br,oadcast LIVE tbis past S11nday evening ,on the WRUC .6:15 News. It ls prlnted here in its entirety. . The date is Friday, January 6, 1982. It is 11 p.m. in SS 016. 'Fhe Union College Film Committee is showing ''Excalibur\ and it ts the start .of a term that would break· all existing Fihn · Cem· mittee records in. terms of at- tendance and money taken in. But it is .also the start of something else. Emerging from the capacity crowd .that night was a shy, young lad. from the backwoods of a small New England town who walked qp · ontC> the stage and began a tradition that still exists more than a year later. He would become the first-.ever Union College Folm Committee Cryer·. At first movie audiences were confused • they were , '!Insure what .to make of anyone foolish enough to walk in front of the screen just before the film was to begin. N e:1rt, movie buffs from all over campus began to dislike the Cryer and become hostile to him. They called him obscene names, threw objects at him, and became so rowdy as to make any possible movie announcements virtually im- possible. The Cryer responded with .anger and confusion but he · did not know what it was to quit. Eventually movie audiences came to respect his endurance and were disappointed on those occasions when he could not make it to their particular show of the movie. He became a hero to crowds who respected his courage to stand by· himself against the masses until his announcement had been completed. Yet there were times when the Cryer would not live .up to his reputation such as when· he tripped going up onto the stage or the movie inad- vertently started before he was through talking or there was - talk that he was going to marry a film projector. However, it was such peculiarities and mist~kes that lent a special human quality to the whole affair that often was so lacking in the movie that was to come. In return for entertaining people, the Cryer had the chance to be the center of at· tention for a few minutes each week and actually welcomed any participation from the · audience as a sign of the ac .. ceptance for which he had so long been searching. The special relationship between the Cryer and his audience reached a new clb:nax during Camp Union when he would announce ''The Rocky U:orror Picture Show\ before the largest Single crowd ever to see a movie in Union College history. With the start of the new schoel year, the Film Com- mittee Cryer wa$ at first unsure whether or not he should con- tinue with his now-famous announcenumts.. Would the audiences still accept . him? Could he continue at the .pace he had previously led for himself? Luckily for movie audiences, hi& ego got the better of him as he could not bear to see in- coming freslunen denied an announcement during Orien- tation Week when \The Way We Were'' ·was shown. The Cryer . was o.ff on yet another seaspn of F Urn Comiiiittee Movies. But somehow it was·all different the second time around. The ex- , citem,ent and the novelty that came with each new an• nouncement was not as easily found. Although the a:n· nouncements continued, the scales- had now been tipped in the opposite direction. Whereas thee Film Committee Cryer originally went onstage for himself, now he was g<;)ing onstage more for others. What had been a quick moment in the spotlight had now turned into a genuine service for the movie-- going campus community. Then, tragedy s'truck. On Saturday, January 29, 1983, at approximately 11:04 p.m., a heavy winter boot struck the Cryer on the side of the head. It was immediately flown to Boston where the best .foot-wear experts in the nation were brought in and proceeded to work around-the-clock ,at Massachusetts General Hospital in the hope that sometAing could be done to repair the damage on the in- jured boot. After exten~ive surgery, the boot survived but remains paralyzed from the laces down and will never walk again. As. for the Cryer, he bas been working with bal)istics experts who are looking at fllm of th~ incident taken by an amateur photographer just offstage. Latest analysis Sllusiorrs Vnistx J.(ai\ Studio • 10% STUDENT DISCOUNT • TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS • • NEWEST IN MOD,J:R.N HAIR STYLES PHO·NE: 381-6268 5l9 lower Union St. , \' Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 . Jean~tte Massaro \ ~~$~ -WE DELIVER- 374-1888 ~~ ~!L · 464 State St. Schenectady, NY ·:::) \' ; .. ~;. L . .-=- .--:_. :. _, .;·. -} - __ ,;.~~('*>' ~~,.-_:·,;:;· ... ~ ' ..... ':; f Dr. Jack Maranville, Executive Associate til the President., is this year's Minerva Committee secretary. Minerva ·Committee reveals a grassy knoll just in .front of the projection booth from whlch the outline Qf a second ,boot-thrower can be - seen. Added to this is the ap- pearance of thE: Cryer's head seemingly being pushed back and tben thrown forward leading many to believe in tbe theory that there m~y actually ha:ve been two boots thrown. Recent allegations have suggesteQ that such diverse groy.ps and individuals as Fidel. Castrq, the K:GB, the CIA, organized crime, Ned Harkness, the Union CQUege athletic Department, and even the M:ohawk Mall Cinema are behindsome sort of underworld conspira<::y that was intent on knocking the Cryer off the stage -permao.ently. Due to an act of God, the Cryer has recovered but medical authorities have concluded that were he ever able to get hit in the head in the same .spot again the resUlts woul-d be devastating. Therefore, the search is on for a · successor to the Fihn Com- mittee Cryer .. All prospective -applicants- will be scheduled to annollllce an upcoming movie where they will be judged by a panel of experts sitting throughout the audience, on such things as crowd control, knowledge of upcoming movies and times, and how, they con- dl.lct themselves under pressure. If you are interested in carrying on the legacy then I lll\:ge you to drop a note to me at Box 54,. Campus Grounds .. But don't wait. The deadline for applications is Monday, February 28, 1983. ~ This is Matt Nankin with one man's op!q!.on. Note: Mr. Narikin'sviews do not necessarily represent those of -the rest of the news team or anyone who is involved with the WRlJC News Department, Bryan Kocen (News Director), Rich Biegen, Dan Coffey, Ted Collins, Jeff Dinces (Program Director), or some ,countries such as Chad.~. Morocco, Sudan, Tunisia, Somalia, Moslem rebels in. Nigeria, the U.S. Army, . AWAX, the U.S~RNirnitz, WRUC or COn· cordiensis. · P .S. The dying boot may be picked up at the Lost and Found Ward located in the Security Building. By ALISON BENDER Staff T:!'le Minerva Committee, formerly ~novm as the Lecture, Concerts, and Films Com- mittee, is a presidential com- mittee designed to augment the instructional aspect of education at Union. By bringing cultural events to the campus, the committee hopes to broaden students' perspectives of the world, as well 'as offering an alternative or addition to the . events.sponsored by the Student Forum. Jack M~ranville, Executive Associate to the President and this year's committee secretary, stressed that the purpose behind the committee .is to offer cultural events with an emphasis on education, as opposed to the offerings of the Speaker's Forum or Concert Committee which have. more of a pop culture, entertainment quality. \We're not in the market for Jane Fonda,\ he said. The Minerva Committee's budget covers three main areas. The first is that of co- sponsor, along with the Schenectady Museum, of the International Festival of Chamber Music. This is a renowned, high caliber concert series performed in Memorial Chapel throughout the year. A portion of the funding for the series comes from subscription ticket holders and · con- tributions, although the con- certs are open to Union students ( tickets available from Mrs. Marra). . The second area the com- mittee concerns itself with is a series of lectures, performers, and artists linked around a theme. This year's theme. \Art and Politics,\ will feature people who incorporate com- ments on the world into their works, rather than art for art's sake. Marshall Burman, cultural historian, will be comjng in the spring to talk about Modernism in literature and architecture. The com- mittee hopes he will ~Pend a day or two on campus and have personal contact with students, perhaps in a class, as opposed to coming for a lecture and leaving. The third and .perhaps most important function of the Minerva Committee is the role of funding agent for groups on campus. If an organization or department has a program that they would like to bring to campus but can't afford, they may bring the proposed idea before the Minerva Committee, which, 9 times out of 10, ap- proves the project and con- tributes as much as $400 ot it. Earlier this year, the com- mitt~e helped fund a flamenco guitarist along with the Spanish department. The committee, in the words of Dr. Maranville, believes \an educated person has a responsibility to foster educational growth beyond the classroom.\ This includes education on a broad level, not just discipline-centered topics. Thus; the committee is com- prised of faculty members from each division, servingntwo-year terms. This year's members include Dr. Maranville, Arnoold Bittleman, Arts; Barbara Boyer, Biology; Judith Gin- sberg, Spanish; Harry Marten, English; Jordan Smith, English; and Donald Thilrston, History. TYPING SERVICE 75c A Page Cheryl 399-7614 THE ROCK-N-ROLL PIZZA PUB the only FREE delivery pizza pub on campus DUE TO POPULAR DEMAND, ONCE AGAIN RECEIVE: TWO {2) FREE MEDIUM SIZE-D SODAS with the purchase of any larg~ or small pizza FREE from Ro.ck-n-RoH PIZZA Call Us: 370~6060 Open: 4:30-? Delivery: 5:30· 11:30 '

' . OONOORDIENSIS, Feb'rtmry !4, 1983 - ; Jln fnYitat.ion [/o Visit · I / ·n-.---·---- r. • • i . - J3y Ohornton WilJer - 'Fe6. 24-2.6, Jvlar. 1-5j . / 198·3 -s: p m :RS~:P: Nott Jvlemorial Ohea.ter u Jl beautifully evocatil' e play. Jl h-~_un tingly b~au tiful play\ ' PRESENTE'D BV THE UNION COLLEGE·_VE-PAR'TMEN,T OF THE ARTS ~ - ..

--- OONOORDIENSIS, February S4, 1983'' Page 9 a I. THE ARTS The· Man in the Glass·--Booth ··Fiction: TROY ...- The RPI Players have announced the cast for their upcoming pres~ntation. of ~obert Shaw's drama, The Man In The Glass .Booth, currently in rehearsal under the ditec~ion of Bill Rennie. The student group will present. the drama on Friday and Saturday, Feb •. 25 and 26, and the followmg ThursdaY through Saturday, March 3, 4, .and 5, .in West Hall Auditorium on the Troy Campus. . Shaw's searing drama con- cerns one Arthur Goldman, a wealthy businessroan in New York with a mysterious p~t. Triggered 'by the thought of his advancing age and the daily headlines, Goldman begins an exccentric and mystifying pattern of behavior that only comes clearly into fo~us when he is arrested by an Israeli commando group as a Nazi war criminal. Packed off to Israel to stand trial, Goldman becomes the voice for Shaw's view of the darker side· of man with sur- prising resUlts. Recent events confirm the still fresh impact of this award-winning work. _ In the key role of Goldman, RPI freshman David Adler makes his first major stage appearance in the area. He was featured in the recent Apple Tree with the Players, as was Mark Lagasse, an . RPI graduate student Who fills the Personals· for Garnet 1983 Deadline: Friday,- March 4th 148 Characters for $1 See Mrs. Marra • ID Student Activities . role of Goldman's right-hand man , Charlie Cohn. In the role of Rose Rosen, leader of the Nazi hunters, C. Elizabeth Seog, anotb~r freslunan, is featured. She was last seen in the . Players' fall ·presentation of The Night Thoreau Spent In Jail. Marc Paul Wilson, a veteran of · numerous Players appearances (Something's Afoot, Don't Drink The Water) plays here as the presiding judge at Goldman's trial. program -at New York University, is a veteran of stage work with several area· theater companies. He is a founding member of Albany Theater Proj~ct and has directed several productions with that. troupe. This is his first direc- teral stint with the ltPI Players .. Tobias Wol:ff Also featured in the cast are John· Robert Benscoter., 'ChriS Blasone, Paul A. Caron, Ron Glasser, Ken Gorrell, Catherine Gould, John C. ~useby, Ruth 'Lawee, Kathleen Moynihan, Andy Pavlin, Joe Phillips, Adrienne Lee Robertson, Kathy ·Rockenstire, Christopher Rumsey, and Jeff Waldron. Director Bill Rennie,· a graduate of the theater · He is assisted by Ellen McWilliams. The set for the production is designed by Chris Nelson and Mar~ Lawrence; with lighting designed by Andy Pavlln. Costumes are coordinated by E. J. Meyer. The production of The Man tn The Glass Booth is the third this .season for the RPl Players, now in their 53rd year of operation. Tickets li,re $2.50 for the general public. ·-Reservations can be obtained by calling 270-6503, or tickets can :be purchased at the door. Come Da-nce every r~::re:::~e Thursday night WRUC R'ECORD HOP in the PU·B Fiction writer Tobias Wolff will give a talk and read from his work at Union College on Tuesday, March 1. -Mr. Wolff is the.author of In the Garden of the North American Martyrs, a collection of shOrt stories published by the Ecco Press in 1982 .. He has also edited an anthology of recent American fiction, Matters of Life and Death: New American Stories (Wampeter Press, 1983). His fiction has appeared in Antaeus, Tri-Quarterly, and other journals. He teaches in the · writing program at Syracuse University. Mr. Wolff will speak on contemporary American fiction at 3:30 and will read from his stories at 8:00. Both presen- tations will be in the second· floor lounge of the Humanities Center on the Union College campus and are free and open to the public. Mr. Wolff is the first speaker in this year's Hale Writers' Forum, sponsored by the Blodgett Committee of the English Department of Union College. The second speaker, fiction writer Ra~ond Carver, will visit Union on May 9. ., t1mes Fourteen oz. glass mug for sale. It's the two-fisted '!'lay !O drink to good times ~nd salute your great taste 1n dnnks. Why not start a collection? Please send this coupon, along with a check or money order for $4.95 per mug (no cash please) to: Seagram's 7 Crown Mug Offer, P.O. Box 1622, New York, N.Y. 10152 Name·--~--------------~~~----------------- (PIWOPilnl) ~m~------~----~----~~~----~--------- City·--------------·State. ______ ~ _ __;c.· lp'-'---- Specify quantity '. mount enclosed$. __________ ~ Offer expires January.31, 1984. No purchase necessary. New York residents add 8.25% sales tax. Please allow 4 to eweeks for shipment. UNIC14 Sttlllrcun:s Fir?tTime- LastTime First time · · A tower of years ago Too sudden shy to breathe his name ·An alien all at once this boy Who hand in hand seemed safe and mine. Too timid now to touch or yield I wait until he rolls away . And I f~l lonely, sad, and small. I sigh .Gee Whiz I guess I blew it If this is all That there is to it. Last time Last night, last Friday night Too wary wise.to breathe his ·name For is it Stephen, Jay or Lloyd? It can't be Steve, it's Jay, I'm sure. Still, safer mvtely to explore With hand, with tongue, this nameless man And I feel lovely, warm and ·glad. I sigh Oh, Christ Don't let me rue it (Not Jay! It's Brad f) Who cares, just ds it!

Page 10 OONOOBDIENSIS, FebrUary 14, 1983 Fountkd ol Union Coll~e 1877 --~------- -----~~-- For the Eighties \We have to set the tone that we are a distinct generation with a distinct voice from that of 10 or 15 years ago,'' stated IFC Executive Director 'Mike Caruso. That tone has been set as we review our lobbying victories recorded in both the federal and state higher education budgets. The professionalism of our efforts has paid off. · We are no longer the screa:ming,. sometimes ·violent throngs reacting out of anger and distrust. As fits our political system, the student activist of today enters w1th tie and jacket, polished and polite, armed with facts and figures, not rocks and broken bottles. Our support of such an organization a.s the Independent Student Coalition reflects our desire to work within that tired expression--''the system.'•• Continuf'd support can only lead to .greater success. As we have, for the moment, halted the threat of aid cuts, now is the time to go on the offensive a.nd pursue greater benefits. Is the present Pell Grant budget enough to offset the· rising costs of both private and public education? Are State University schools receiving · a disproportionate amount of tax dollars, in excess of their. public missions.? But, to use the proverbial, the battle is won but not the war. Restructuring is already planned for Federal loan programs which will certainly effect eligibility. We must continue our activist VJays. Perhaps we are not so far removed from those children of the sixties. Slush Capades Just as you were preparing to go back in the water, it is time for Winter Carnival. This weekend, the Social Committee has plannec;l an entertainment extravaganza to sweep away those pre-final cobwebs. Spend Friday afternoon with fellow teammates in an all-campus relay race topped off by a night of live musie in the Pub. Saturday, come blizzard or high water, skiers will he trying their luck at Mount Snow in Vermont. As for the snow sculpture . . . Quite frankly, for those who have been crying for some action during these bleak months, here is your opportunity. Slaves of your studies, sever those binQ.s. Take time away from those books before it is really time to buckle down come Week Nine. Besides your possible enjoyment, participation would serve two purposes. A good showing will prompt the Committee to attempt daring deeds of debauchery in the spring and also prolong the life expectancy of the Winter Camiv~ tradition. As with many of our campus quirks, it is slowly ~disappearing. Though the grass is growing greener and Lib1'ary Field is turning into a quagmire, better la~e than never. The Old School A commitment to one institution of thirty-seven years is quite extraordinary as the .security of tenure is quietly eroding. Abqve all else, though, it is admirable. William M. Murphy Will be retiring this spring after joining the College community in 1946. As Thomas Lamont Professor of. Ancient and .Modem Literature, Murphy has made his mark in both the halls of academia and politics. Of even greater importance in our eyes has been his influence on students. Without being overly sentimental, we would simply like to thank Professor Murphy for doing ' what we think he does best--teaching. Few scholars ca.n. present their material in a demanding yet kindly manner. William Murphy, in an interview with this newspaper, asked, \who can say whether I made the right decision or not?\ We like to think\ of ourselves as judges of sorts and answer the question with an emphatic \Yes it was the right decision. The community will be at a loss without, and we say this with affection and respect, ''Killer'' Murphy. LETTERS From Amnesty lnter.nation.al To the Editor: Last week's Concordtensls featured an article entitled \Student ,Forum Members Debate Current Issues';. The article contained an assertion made by · a misinformed member of the Finance Com- mittee insinuating that Amnesty International, a recipient of U.C. funding, iS a \political org.anization\ .• Perhaps it would be instrl.lctive for that committee member to read the back issues of Con~ cordiensis. ian issue two weeks ago, Amnesty International defined its purpose and orientation. T:() reiterate '' . • . Amnesty International is a worldwide movement which is independent of any govern- ment, political fac.tions, ideolofly, . interest or religious creed', ' This non-profit, non- affiliated organization wor~s to defend prisoners of conscience against vi()lations of their human rights, Defense of bum~ rights does infer that - some·of our actions are directed toward a political forum (Le. sending letters to a Soviet of- fici~l), but does not ~ any eqUivocable sense make us a political group, If this type of work is termed ''political\ the net result wi'll be not only the end of our funding, but the end of funding for ·many other campus. orga:riizations. I suggest that members ofthe · · U.C. · Vonun think tWice before allowing the type of ~tatement made last week to g.o into.print. · . Thankyou, Judybeth Greene Vice President Amnesty International Viewer Objects To the Editor: The pornographic film \Bad Girls\ which was shown on . Tuesday the 22nd of February paints a grossly distorted C icture of sexual relations etween men and women. Although I do not object to fibns containing scenes of.ex:plicit sex in general, I strongly obj~t to· the showing of films that depict R e .commendations regarding the third·. year evaluation of Instructor Marc·· Dawson of the History · Department are now · being accepted. Please contact Professo.r Donald Thurston, Chair, History Department, 33 213b (370-6220). Administrative and Engineering Systems Colloquium Speaker: Dr. William Holstein, School of Business, SUNY at Alba·ny Topi.c.: 11 Technology and Trade in Southeast Asia\ Date: Thursday, February 24, 1983-3:45' p.m. Place: Ro'Om 31.2, Bailey Hall, Union College Union College Department of ·the Arts Student Recital to be given Tues., March 1, 1983 at 7:30p.m. ARTS BUILDING ROOM 202 To Include Works bY: Copeland- Brahms Scarlatti- Albeniz The Pubiic Is Cordially ·Invited to Attend violence against women. This filrri showed rape on more than one occasion and scenes of men whippjng and· beating women. Rape is a big enough problem in this society and on this campus. To contribute to, the problem by showing films which appear to condone rape should. be in~ tollerable .. By showing this film, the Union College Film Com- mittee is contributing to the problem of rape and the . at- titudes that cause rape. We need to prevent the raping .of women, not to add to the problem. I bidthe Union College Film Committee to consider its social responsibility in the showing ()f films which depict violence against women. Timothy McNerney [etters to the editor must be submitted to Concordiensis by 7:00p.m. on Tuesday All letters must be typed, double- spaced, on m)n-erasoble paper. letters must include nome and telephone number; names -will be withheld on request. Concordiensis reserves the right to edit any letter for reasons of space.' . Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor News Editors A.J. Brodsky, Dianne Pavacic Julianne Abelman Marcy Burstiner, Dotrg Landon D.C. Owens NormanBinibach; DonnaGetson Glenn Krutoff, Roberta Rubinstein Editorial Page Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Campus Page Edltor Associate Campus Page Editor Sports Editors Cindy J. Tenner Jill B: Kaufinan Drew Hurley, Rick Sapir Peter Mohr Gregg Shack Chris La~y, Mary M. Philli~ . Daphne Chigas Robert Tang David Neibluni Layout Advisor . . Subscription Editor Photo Editors Associate Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Political. Cartoonist Staff Debbie Albeit, Mike Anzenberger, Jano. Baran, Jay Baruch, AIUJon Bender, Patty Callahan, . Scott Collins,Xathy Duffy, Lori Favata, . David Fitzgerald; Mary Ann Gagliardi; Cathy Gifford; Emily Haft, Lynn Hano, Kathy Keveaney, Ted Kendris, Susan Kone, Jeremy Koskel, Tom Miller, David Murray, Matt Nankin, Michelle Novelle, Joan O'Connor, Jennifer Paston, Nancy Pettinella, Steffi Propos, Heidi Rosen, Leslie Rhubin, Gayle Rosenfeld, Amy Schachter, Franklin Schneider, Judie Steinhardt, Joyce Teitelbaum, Bob Van Voris, Peter. Weishart, Photo Staff Sherrv Weib:en. Scott Wykoff. Dave Zuckerberg Brian Bilsback, David Croasdale, Russ Fein, Ton Gengo, Jon Heimer, Paul Klein, Karen Lissauer, Gregg Shack, ' · Sue S:erenska ' CONCORDIENSIS is pUbliShed every Thursday by the student body of Union.College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; ,Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Bo:x: 388, S1dney, New York 13838~ (607) $3-7151. Entered in the SChenectady Post Office ~9 ~.sf class matter. Subscription ~ate; 35 cents per copy, $12 pet year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIE~SIS subscribes to the College Pre$S 8erv'i~e (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). . . ... .. . . .. ... Office Telephone .. 37~155 I

-- any ilsa ~e of , the 'the end •ther fthe · ~fore nent >rint. you, . eene dent ional ! at- We g of the liege 'r its the ~pict rney CONCOJl,DlENSlS, Feb11«try $4, 1983 I - - . - Page 11 - a r COMMENTARIES EleCti'On Night Jn USSR Capital Briefs By JACK ANDERSON and JOE: SPEAR guilty of criminal misconduct. But they clearly aren't helped by the agency's practice of withholding and shredding documents. IIY ART BUCHWALD As !predicted, Yuri Andropov becal1le the new General secretary of the Colll:nlunist party. But the evening was stUl one·ofthe most exciting election nights in .Russian history. \Good evening.\ \Welcome to Soviet BrQad~ casting System's elect.ion nlgbt coverage. I'J:n Dan Ratevich, artd we have tonight Lesley Stahlingrad, Dmitri Brinltsley, Igor .Brokaw, and Ily!ch Moyers, giving you tne latest. results on exciting election for successor to Comrade Leonid Brezhnev, who just went to that great Politburo in the sky.\ \Lesley we hear yQu have early report from Odessa.\ \I do, Dan. Odessa polls closed just two minutes .~go, and the 'SBS Exit Poll' in· dicates big victory for Com- munist Party there. Odessa has always been bellwether for how rest of country will go. The ·big turnout for Communists in Odessa means encouraging sign for Communist Party in other parts Qf Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.'' \Ig6r how are we doing in Minsk and Smolensk?\ \Our exit polls in Minsk &nd Smolensk indicate possible landslide for Kremlin.\ \How do you-· explain this?\ ·~Exit pollsters found voters. very unhappy With no foOd in shops, shoddy consumer·goods, no housing, and rotten winter. They say they voted Communist to send a message to Moscow.\ \Dmitri Brinksley, how do you read these results so far?·\ \Is sign SoViet people are fed up with system and want change. OW' SBS breakdown shows old people are worried about social security, wQmen don't like nuclear arms race, young people want Soviets out of Afghanistan, and factory bosses are against governnient regulations. It always happens in off-year election.\ · \Let's go to Ilyich Moyers for in-depth commentary on what this means for presidential candidates.\ \We shouldn't read too much into early election results, Dan. Alth.ough it is now predicted Yur1 AndJ:opov, former head of KGB, got 99 percent of votes in his district, he still has an image problem. Andropov is a household name in Soviet Union, and while everyone is still scared silly of him, he is dull speaker and has no television appeal. Konstantin Chernenko was pandpicked successor by Brezhnev but i,;s 71 years old and may be con- Elections for the position of Editor(s)-in- . Chief of the CON- CORDIENSIS will be h~ld on March 11, , 1983. The position will run through the .next two terms. Anyone interested must . contact Mrs. Marra in Student Activities by ;March 4, 1983. A · maiority vote of the staH of the CON- CORDIENSIS will determine the Editor(s)-in··Chief. sidere<t tQo young. Jor the. job. Moscow party bO$S Viktor Grishin is c;Iark norse, and Defense Minister Ustinov ha::; built up war chest froll).nillitary whic\l puts other-candidates at big disadvantage wben it comes to buying television time. At the moment head of Soviet Union is still }lP for grams.\ . · ''Lesley, ypu l;lave new result·s from Ukraine?\ Yes,. Dan. The. Ukraine, with three percent pf the votes in, is going heavily for Andropov. This is one of the places the KGB Political Action· Com- mft~ee concentrated 9n because .farmers were very unhappy with Chernenko's refusal to buy enough grain from the United States.\ '~Dmitri, you wanted to say something?\ \I would just like to say the large di$sident vote in Siberia that the Pravda News Poll had predicted didn't materialize. 'Despite appeais from the 'Voice of America' the dissidents .stayed home, and· that cou1d account for the overwhelmfug sweep of the CommWlist Party in J)udinkl\, where Viktor Grishin counted on a low tur- nout/' · · \Igor you've been watching Tashkent. Any trends there we should be .aware of?\ \They seep:1 to be hav-ing some trouble with the voting machines in Tashkent, and at the moment SBS iS listing this district as the only one in the Soviet Uriion 'too close to call.' \ WASHINGTON - Justice Department officials are going to have their hands full in- vestigating the Environmental Protection Agency. Not only have they been asked to loQk into why the embattled agency has beeg, shredding documents, but they have also been a~ vising E:PA director Anne Gorsuch on her criminal con- tempt charges. She has been cited for con- tempt by Congress for refusing to produce internal documents. Among the papers that Congress wants are memos relating to Chemical Waste Management, Inc. The company has had problems with the Environ- . mental Protection Agency. It •-•--------------------. was represented l>y Denver attorney James Sanderson, who J • Commentaries do not necessarily represent the views of the Editorial Board of Concordiensis. Anyone interested in writing . \ intelligen( commentaries should - . contact D.C. Owens at 6155. Subcouncil on Research & Grants Announce Deadline. The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories--student~ initi.ated research projects and ''educational'ly innovative pro.jecfs 11 falls on March ( Proposals for student-initiated research' projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's Office (SlOO, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. . Similarly, members of the College community who have ''educationally innovative'' proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. • Guidelines with respect to the l.E.F., are ava.ilable in the Deanis Office. Inquiries about 1. E.F • ., are gVailable in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F .. , the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be di-rected to Dr. Ilene M. \Kaplan - A~sociate Dean of Faculty. · .. - (} I) went to work for Gorsuch. The Justice Department is now investigating charges that he used his government position to help his client. Sanderson was never of- ficially confirmed for his EPA job because of the controversy over his alleged conflicts. But our sources say he was seen hanging around the agency for two weeks last month. The sources claim he was secretly advising Gorsuch on the con- tempt charges. - Sanderson told our reporter · that he is just ·a friend of Gor- such and that his visit was social. Another high official of the Environmental Protection Agency is also under in- vestigation. He is John Horton, who is in charge ofthe agency's administrative affairs. Justice Department officials are looking into charges that Horton used a government employ~e to handle his private business matters on govern- ment time. Horton flatly denies the charge. The Justice Department investigation arose from an anonymous letter that was supposedly written by agency employees. It's signed, \Disgusted Citizens.\ The letter accuses Horton of using his $29,000 a year ad- ministrative assistant, Pat Kruger, as a secretary in his brivate business ventures while the taxpayers were paying her salary. Horton is a multimillionaire and a partner in four corporation&. · , We don't know whether Sanderson and Horton are ,. 0 0 ... RENT-A-CROOKS?: The fear of crime .has spawned a major industry: Property owners across the country have turned to private st:curity forces for protection. Even the govern- ment is now using private guards - or rent-a-cops, as they're called in security cir- cles. We have some depressing news for those who rely on rent- a .. cops. These private security forces. have. been infiltrated by criminals. . Our reporters have found private security guards with criminal records. Some of them are guarding government buildings, including the Justice Department itself. That's not the worst of it. Two of the unions which represent 10,000 rent-a-cops are ccmtrolled by organized crime, according to the Justice Department's crime specialists. These unions are the Allied International Union of Security Guards and the Federation of Special Police. They represent security guards irr New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Puerto Rico and Washington, D.C. States one Justice Depart- ment report: \Allied Union and the Federation have been wholly owned subsidiaries of organized crime since their formation,\ They're sister unioris, headed by one man. His name is Daniel Cunningham, and he was recently convicted and sen- tenced for racketeering and embezzlement. The Justice Department report alleges that Cunningham has been under the \tutelage\ of the Joseph Colombo crime family. The document also charges that Cunningham has used his crime connections with the Colombo, Bonanno, and Gambino mobs \to consolidate his control over labor- organizing efforts in the security guard, casino and nuclear power industries.' • Thus it appears that the mob is unionizing security guards at nuclear plants and gambling casinos. The unions, in turn, pay a monthly tribute to the mob. PLAYING WITH NUM- BERS: Drug seizure statistics are used by federal drug en- forcement agencies. to measure their success. But many of the figures are overstated by the feds, who often count the same seizures several times. According to an unpublished General Accounting Office report, for example, five drug busts in New Orleans were listed separately by the Coast Guard, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the U.S. Customs Service. · In one case, all three agencies took credit for the confiscation of 200 tons of marijuana. Tbis resulted in a massive over- statement, with the government claiming to have confiscated 400 tons of marijuana that didn't exist. The GAO estimates that federal drug agencies captured six million pounds ()f marijuana in 1981, . instead of the nine million pounds they claimed to have confiscated. Commentaries welcomed Call 370·6155 ' .

Page 12 cozycoRDIENSIS, February $4, 1983 T'H.EAR.TS - ' - . Musical DramG Takes Off By ROBERTA RUBINSTEIN Few people, and even fewer Union students, have the motivation needed to transfomi ideas into reality. The vast majority of us, either willingly or unwillingly, resign ourselves to the more mundane tasks in life. Luckily there always seems to be at least some who refuse to allow the grind to take over. It is these special people who create the challenges which excite and inspire the masses. Here at Union, while most of us have been wrapped up in. our daily routines, a group of students have come up with ~uch a challenge. of many musicals. It is not a dr.ama in the heavy somewhat serious .style of many dramas. What it is, is a medium which combines music and drama in order to communicate emotions. Joel Beckerman, who wrote the music for last year's play, Student Bodies--which, in- cidently, was an amazingly well-done production-explains that the role of music in this year's spring production is entirely different. ''The music in Student Bodies served as an overseer of.the play.\ It was not sformation of ideas into reality. Through music, lyrics, con- cepts, and all that is possible in theatre, the purely ideological is made immutably tangible. The theme of the play is a universal one. The main character is a male .in his late twenties who is going through the battle of theory vs. practice. The plot .is somewhat of a condensation of this lifetime struggle. Actors, singers, technicians, and all ·those would-be artists are being given the chance to be a part· of this experiment.. Timothy N9lan in Man qf La Mancha With the help of Mountebanks (Union's student run theatre group) and the support of faculty and friends, John Cozzi, Joel Beckerman and Julie Baretz have been working on a project in theatre. It is an ex- periment which opens new opportunities for the campus at large. Beginning with oitly the vague notion of creating some kind of show, these students started at ground zero. They are now on their way to completing an original experiment in musical drama. This is not anything typical. Perhaps it is not anything that has ever been done before. It is not a musical in the light, unobstructed style a part of each character, but external to them. In the up- coming production, the music -- and lyrics are more typically a reflection of the subconscious within· each character. The musical-lyrical aspect of the play is an actual representation of the characters. This takes the dramatic aspect of the play to places drama has not yet gone. Not only qoes the play promise to be musically and dramatically challenging, but conceptually and technicaQy challenging as well. Creativity in terms of special effects, lighting, sound, and countless other te.chnical .possibilities are endless. \This project is not a simple . play, but a massive undertaking.\ It is the tran- John Cozzi, lyricist, Joel Beckerman, composer, and Julie Baretz, writer, have each put a great deal into this project. Their excitement is inspiri!!g,. and far from sur• prising. .Anyone with any in- clination to communicate through these mediums is en- couraged to become involved in the production. The dates for showing are Parents' Weekend (May 6,7, and 8) and the following weekend (May 13, 14, and 15}. Auditions will begin the first week of spring term. The play is a Mountebanks Production, student directed by Bambi Jo Schlauch. In Review .At The Egg- ALBANY -·It will be a double homecoining when the Paul Sanasardo Dance Company performs at the Egg on Friday, February 25 at 8 p.m. Dancer and choreographer Paul Sanasardo will be performing in the area for the first time since the early 19.70s when his sum~ mers were spent touring the area and rwming the modern- dance school at the Saratoga Performing Arts Center. For John Passafiume, who has been with the company for two years, it will be a return to native territory; he was born in Albany and was graduated from Guilderland High School in 1978. The Sanasardo Company is noted for its physical strength, beauty, training, and style. A gregarious and powerfula looking man, Mr. Sanasar<lo is often described as poetic and profound. His choreography shows an involvement with form and pattern which might be traced to early studies of sculpture and painting at the Art Institute of Chicago. Paul Sanasardo studied with Martha Graham in the early 50s and credits her with being .. a tremendous influence on my development as a dancer,\ although he attributes even greater importance in his career to studies with Anthony Tudor and With Anna Sokolow, whose company he joined in 1953. He also appeared as guest artist 'with the Pearl Lang Company and for twelve years wiss Miss Lang's partner in concert. 'l'he Patil Sanasardo Dance Company, formed in 1970, performed not only in New York City but toured extensively (\I can't think of any major city we haven't played\) until 1977. In that year, after five annual tours of Israel, Mr. Sanasardo was persauded to assume the artistic directorship of the Batsheva Dance Company in Tel Aviv. That company also traveled-to Western Europe, Africa, the Middle East (\But • we couldn't go beyond Cairo in those days\)-in addition to appearances in Israel. After five years with the Batsheva company; Mr. Sanasardo decided to return to It takes special people to transform ideas such as these into reality; now is your chance to give it a try. New York and bring his own comp~y together again. .The · return was. greeted with en- thusiastic reviews. (Robert Kimball in the New York Post: '' Sanasardo' s excellently trained company . . . danced lyrically and with fervor.\ Anna Kisselgoff in the New York Times: \Mr. Sanasardo himself is always an in- spiration. The Saoosardo Dance Company is certainly one of the most highly trained and polished groups in con- temporary dance.\) In. Albany, several observors of a master class given by Paul Sanasardo at the Egg earlier this season recalled that their ·introduction to modern dance came in programs· at SPAC. PaUi Sanasardo will give another master class at the Egg on Thursday, F.ebruary 24 at 4 p.m. For information and tickets for the Paul Sanasardo Dance Company's performance Friday; February 25 at 8 p.m., contact the ESIRA box office at 518-473--3750. (The TTY number is 474-6143.) RED TO.P _PIZZER:IA 15o2·van·vrank:en Ave •• Schenectady. NY: <Corner of Nott Stre~t} ' 382-5657 or 382-7995 PIZZA AT IT'S BEST! . - 4--8-12_.24 CUTS Serving Both Hot ~nd Cold Sandwiohesj:V;ER.Y Dc~W! I • 1 \.. ~ • v , . .FREE DELiVERY .. ·~: ...... · .._ •. _ •• ., ·-. ~- - ,.. ')f. .~-. • .• ., .,,.J rf ... ~··_-. (To commercia:t E$tablishmeo:t~,' Hospitals, and :Colleges) OPEN 11 A.M. T;O:CLOSIN~ • 1'• - ] . ~ . Man of La Mancha By TODDIMMICK Man of La Mancha, playing at Proctor's this week, is a sh,ow worth .seeing. As a person ·not sure of What to expect I was impressed by the power of this performance. From the thrill of watching Miguel de Cervantes change into Don Quixote to the' grief and hope of Don Quixote's death, the audience is en- thralled. Throughout the scenes we see the struggle of a man to convince · lilinSelf, ·· and '. othevs that there is good. in the world. The tale is a bittersweet one of profound optimism ·and hope against what can only be called human nature. It is a musical -' that touches something deep within one's self. Suddenly the conflict of the mind between .hope ~nd callow:! ignorance is brought to the surface. Timothy Nolan, in the title role, masterfully:portrays a deep and vulnerable man. Others who stood out were Penny Orloff as Aldonza, the common girl who slowly wants to believe in something greater than her world, and Christopher Cameron as Padre, whose melodious .. v.oice . c~nd ... .s~;~btly humorous actions greatly contribute to the magic of the performance. It is no surprise that Man of La Man~ha . ~s received the acclaim that it has. IJ)...Babson 'Cb' College LIBERAL ARTS and PROFESSIONAL PROGRAM STUDENTS let Babson help y.ou make the TRANSITJ.ON between college and the work world NSITION, Babson's SummerManagernenfProgram, can p you •.. Become acquainted with the world of management in a six-week residential program designed for no·nb.usiness majors · · Acquire business skills and familiarity with. basic business concepts ~nd .terminology . , .. Increase yoi..rr attractivenesl? to employers by means pf .$ .;; •. bcsadeRed.b.a$.(tt,oJ pr:aclical ex.perUs~· .. ·-i . ·, ' ' ~ginning June~. 1983, the pro.gramwill feature case stuqi~~ ectures, and experiential group .work integrated with lieltiJ rips, ses'Sions with business exec.utives. and pa'rticipation: i~. computer-simulated management game. on· a .450-acre woo.ded campli:.ls in ~Wellesl~y. Massaehu- etts, Babson is an lnde·penden~. ·nonsectarian; coeducational lege of management. The coll,ege is accredited by th:f' erican Assembly of Ccilleglater Schoots·or :Business .an·d he New England Association of Schools and Colleg;es. ';:-: --~ imited enrollment. Cal( or write; .... TRANSITION Arthur.. A.-Bay·er, D:ean . . • · · .Undergraduate Program- Babson COllege ., ·•': Babson Park (Wellesley), MA 02157 i ; .:J ~; ... ·, 4i {_ . -~ ·f'' . ,l ' ..:: ~ J 'll ~ ~- . f6_i7) ias~1200, .Exten~i6n 321_ · ... :~~:· .- ::,;'~<':~,}~ .. ... -

deep ·the veen :e is .othy •ole, I ~.\Dd who ff as who !in her r>her b~s has. a . ' •' iA -../ ' ' 'i ~ ... 4 ·~ CONOORPIJ!JNSIS, February 24, 1983 Page 13 I. .. ·z .· gur T()w·ri ,A Timeless Wo-rk BY DEBJUALBERT and STEFFI PROPOS ting up, eatin~ breakf~st~ going to school or work, connng home, eating dinner and gQlng to bed. Currently, . the Theatre This~ routine -conti11ues .to Departme.nt here at Un~on is proceed every day. Jn· .Act II, involved m the production of ''Love and·' Marriage':', the our Town by Thorton Wilder.. scene oogins in the present but · This play .is being ·directed by goes back .in time. The two Harry 1{; Smith,. an associate · families, the Webbs. and the professor in the Drama Gibbs, are joined together by a Department, who bas been here marriage . and life for these at Union since 1971. people stil},remainssimple. The ·The play itself focuses'on the third Act, ''Death''·, gives the · daily routines ·of ordinary, audience a chance to reflect on simple peopl~. specifically· the the true meaning ·of life, seen .routine's. .of the Webbs and. the through the eyes of a character Gibbs. The play .is also unusual who comes back to earth for a in that it requires no elaborate momentin.time after her death. sets or-costumes. While the play It seems th.at tbe <Jverall consists of characters, \the question or point to the play is, stage manager. (used as a - \Do any human beings ever narrator) serves. as a link,/ real~e life wliile. they live it?'' almost like a tour guide taking Overall,. Our· Town is a us on a journey thr~ugh our own timeless work and should be lives.\ Our Town prompts the seen by all here ·at Union. As audience \to · reflect on ·where quoted by the, Brooklyn Eagle in their lives were, where their 1938, after the ·first production lives are now, and where their of the play, \It is the life of any lives will be going. Professor town, of ahy human, from the Smith has in his directing cradle to the grave. It's really career already directed this very fine.\ play 1 however he is enthusiastic The play will be performed on about dojng it .~gain because it February 24, ~. and 26, and is a play 'to which''all people c~ March 1-5. at the Nott Memoria1 relate, d·u.e to its~ realistic ~Theatre at 8. p.m. There will be quality. . ' no admission charge but passes The play is di~ided into three to the performance will . be acts; each one depicting a needed. They ate available at different phase of life. Act I is the Nott Memorial Theatre Box \Daily Life\ which deals with Office. each family's rQutines of get- 1... -. -· ..... The ·Spanish club announces.o~_,excursion to t_he · State University of Albany·· on March 1, 1983 to see the Spanish film, ~a Primera·Angelica . (with sub-titles) ~ We will meet in front of the Humanities building at 6:30 p.m. Admission is FREE and the whole college community is invited. Call6211 if you need transportation. ~ THE ARTS ~lkwn CCol/e? !»efuu'hru!-nt o/ the .J:6tJ ctndially invi~:J ifCU .(o attend · @u~ 1 f?7aMZ ':! ~ 1fi/d.n. §eku~ .2~-26', ~ /-5, 1933 cf:tJ() fi.m. ./Vott ~~ !fiteab.e .. CAST .stage:A:fa~aGer. • • · • · • • • • · ........................................ Bambi Schlauch D~_ctor. Gibbs • ~- . • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • . .• • . . . • , • • . • , • . • • ........... ~ .... 9 • • • Tom Rice Mrs~ Gib~$ • • ,, •• e •••••••••••• •· .............. il I •••• II ••••••••••••• e Anna Tucker Geurge G1~bs · • • · • · I • • .. • ••• I : ... I •••• I I -1 • I •• ,, •• o ••••• I ••••••••••• Adam Storke Re~ecca- Gibbs- . . I •• I • I I ' 1 ................... e • I •••••.••• !' ••••••••• Melinda Phillips Edttor_ Webb-. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ·~ .......... ~ •.•.••.•••••••••••••• fi •• I .... II Ken. Alt1nan Mr.~-· :Webb:· · • ·- ·· • • · • · .• · I ••••• I .. I ••••••.•• • ••• I •• I • • • • • • •• I • I • • • • ••• Diane Sadak E'!''l~ ~ebb_. ·· · · . It ; • • • • • •• • • • • • • • • • ! It •• , • • • • • .. • • • • • • • I •••••••••••• Jean Carney Wally w e~b . ~ . • ..... II oi • I I • I\ •••••••• e 0 -. _. • • • • • • • • .. • • ••••••••• ·• • I I I Joey Beckerman PrCJfi,ssor Wtllard • ...•....• , •....••.•.•.•....•••.•..•.•• Ptojessor Danie/Robbins RQwre Ne.wsome~ ..................... ~ •.•• _, •.•.•......••.•.•.• I ••.• Jon Skinner ~rs. Soa!'!e~ · ! • • • • ; • • • ~~ • •• • , • .. • • • • • • I • • •• • • • • • ••••••••••••• I •••• I • Jodi .Cohen ~I\' on St~mson • ..•..•.•.•..•.....••...••....•.•..•.•........•.... Scott Bloom ~, Cratg _ • · · • • · · · · · · · ......... I ....... I •• ~- ••••••• ~ ••••• I ........... I , Chris Lacy B•lf Warren • . , ... I I ................ I ••••• I •••••••••• , 0 ••••••• 0 ••• Jim Motolanez Joe ~ro.we/1 • · • , ·· • • · !' • • .............. I ••••••.••••••• I ............. Russell Silverman The Dead , •• II •• , • I ••••••• • .................. ·- , •••• II • II ••••••••••• Alex Atrubill Sally Carey Irene Fassler Kathy Healy Lenny Katz LoraNe/son Loren Webber Directed by: Barry K. Smith Associate Professor Light Deisgn: Daro Beninati Technica!Director Musie Theatre North, a professional stock company, will be holding--open auditions for its slUiliJler season in Pot- sdam:. NY on Monday, March 7.th. at the Performing Arts Center of the ·University at Albany. 1400 W asbington Avenue and on Tuesday, March 8th at the Campus Center Theatr.e of Siena College, Loud.onville. The audition schedule is as follows: March 7th: 1:00 p.m. - 3:0t> p.m, (Lab Theatre.), 3:30p.m. - 5:30 p.m. (Studio Theatre) Open Call; March lith: 6:00p.m.- 8:00p.m. {Open Gall Women), 8:00p.m. • 10:00 p-.m. (Open Call Men). Auditi()ns for a rehearsal / u$ic Theatre No·rth pianist will also be held at the above times. Auditionees are to bring a typed resume, a black and white photo (8x10), ;i prepared one _minute song a ballad, a one minute' monologue, and are to wear clothes to dance in. Staff and technical interviews will be held on Monday, March 7th in the Red Lounge off the Lab Theatre of the Perfonning Arts Center at the University at Albany (11:00 a.m.· 1:00 p.m.) and on Tuesday, March 8th in the Fine Arts Dept. Office of Siena College (4:00 ·6:00p.m.). Positions available are as (ollows: Administrative Assistant-Public Relations, Director, Choreographer, Musical Director, Set, Costume, Lil'thting Designers, Technical Directors, Master Carpenter, Master Electrician, Costume Shop Foreman (cutter-draper), General Technicians and Costumers. AU applicants must bring a typed resume. Music '.l'heatre North's 1983 5th Anniv~rsary Season will consist of: Snoopy! ! ! , Man of La Mancha, Over Here and Hello Dolly, running June 29 - August 21, 1983. Auditions for MTN in NYC will be held on March 9-11, 1983 at the WestSide Dance Project, 220 W. 80th St., NYC. Music Theatre North is a program sponsored by 'the St. Lawrence Foundation for Youth, Inc., a not-for-profit Arts Organization located in Pot- sdam, NY. V The Dutch Hollow Pub ~ 11 Dutch Hollow Pub wiD be open for Four seatings .11} CAMPUS CARTOONISTS CONTEST on Saturday night for Dutchman's Night. The seatings - will be 4:30, 5:00, 6:30 and 7:30 p.m. Reservations for Saturday ·wights wiU .be ta•e• on . . ,Wed~esduy and Friday oftemGons between 1he hours of 1 and ~:30 ·at the ticket ~th, C.megie IIIII~ RESERVAtiONS ARE REQUIRED TO PARTICIPATE! f . - . Dutdmtan'• Night·~ availalal! to 19-mell plan holden twice a month, .. to 14 ... 10..1111 plan hoWers once. inontfl. Don't Forget! ! ! Make reservations early,.bring, your meal card and 1.0 . and. prepare to en loy yourselft J J You don't have to feel teft out if you're not ort a ·meal plan. we~n gladly accept cash reservations too. Are you one of the best in the U.S.? There \(ill be 10 winners, and they get money. $1i00 each. Plus the chance at a contract with Tribune Company Syndicate one of the largest U.S. distributors of comic strips and cartoons. Garry Trudeau (\Doonesbury\) started as a college cartoonist. Jeff MacNelly (\Shoe\) started as a college cartoonist. Doug Marlette (\Kudzu\) started as a college cartoonist. So it can be and is done. Now send all this to: Campu• Cartoordats Conte1t Blocksbur~, Va. 2-'060 (And do remember that MCJN:h 7 del!dlineJ

' < . ·' ' ' Page 14 OONCORDlENSIS, February !4, 1983 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY25 - 4:00 p.m.-? ALL CAMPUS RELAY RACE ,. . SATURDAY, FE;:BRUARY 26 7:00 a.in.-7:00 p.m.--HIT THE SLOPES --Fun and frolic in the snow as your team races through this imag.inative maze o.f events in search of ... --:Er:~ter· your tea·m (.6-10 people.) today at Carnegie Hall Box Office. Team captains p·lease include box and phone number. SKI TRIP TO MOUNT SNOW, VT. --Ticket must be purch~sed irt advance at Carneg;ie· Hall Box Office. Please s.ign in on s·heet. . --Ticket includes: Bus transportation tq. and from Mt. Snow; One adult aH-day aJl-IHts ski pass. · · --Events include x-country skiing, eating, building, pain.ting, etc. SPECIAL TICKET PRICE: $17.00 (regular Mt. Snow lift price. $23) Ticket must be purchased now. · NOTE: Buses will leave from the Fox-Davidson park·ing lot .at 7 a.m. sharp. No refvnds. You are responsible for· your own equipment and person. RentalswiHbeavailablea.tMt. Snow.- --Prizes will be. awarded to the top three tea.tns --Stay tuned for further information , DON'T MISS THIS WINTER EXTRAVAGANZA! 10 p.m.-2 a.tn.--Dance the night away at the Dutch hollow Pub to the sound of a dyn~mic band and the Record Hop. SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 27 3:00 p.m.--SNOW SCULPTURE JUDGING THE UNION COLLEGE SPEAKERS FORUM presents CURTlS SLIWA The Alliance of Guardian Angels UNION COLLEGE MEMORIAL CHAPEL Friday, February 25th, 1983 8:00P.M. TICKETS: Carnegie Hall Box Office - Union College $1 .0() for Union College Students Brld faculty with 10 --Sculptur~s .may be built ,any time but must be completed by 3:00 p.m. Sculptures will be ludged as is for originality and ar- tistic imagination. ~ --Please submit campus location of sculpture to the Box Office by Sunday, 2: 00 p.m. · · --Prize will be awarded to best sculpture. College Grads M-F N.o Experlen:c~e COLLEGE GRADS COMPLETE TRAINING· PROVIDED FOR ALL POSITIONS·· PI LOTS - $18,000 Start, 20-20 vision, all maiors, 19-28 years o·ld. AVIATION SYSTEMS MANAGERS $18,000 Start, all maiors, 19-28 years old, ,. . 20-20 vision n,ot required. MANAGERS - $17,000 Start. Ship han- dling & ship management. All maiors, 19- 34 years old. . MANAGERS - $17,000 Start. personnel, logis:tics. Business preferred. 19-34 years old. Finance .. ma1ors ENGINEERS · $21.,000 Start & bonus. Proiect management. R & D .operating engineers. Engineering science, or technical maiors. 19-27 years old. $40,000 in 4 years for some ·positions. ALL -POSITIONS FEATURE·. EX- CELLENT PROMOTION POTENTIAL. GUARANTEED RAI.SES TO OVER $27,000 in 4 YEARS. EXCELLENT BENEFITS. TEST REQUIRED. U.S. CITIZENS ONLY. ·NO OBLIGATION - . INTERVIEW. CALL: NAVY MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS, (518) 472-4424-4464 \ f;.i Cell pro gra1 Irtt• ·org lnf tivi rig I BrB or Apl ·I\ p.rt Pr1 lea: der stu op1 chi art drc 8fl De r op• H~ La of me ·I • Hi op fOJ po 12 st1 fn de w st' al p: o1 in (d st M . St to st N st re aJ lr dl tt 'P'

( 7 l f - / OONOORDIENSIS, Febyuary 24, 1983 Page l5 .... INTERNSHIP~ :A.ntbropolog.Y . Reso.u·rce ceoter Summer . Intern program-fo~ und~rgradua~e or graduate soct.al scte~ce J!laJ~r,s. Irtterns ~ss1st A~C r~ .tfie , organiza~ton of .Its C: 1t1zen Infor.rnatton Cente;r, 1n ac. tivities related to 1ts human rights programs on beh'4f _of Brazilian arid Mayan . Indians, or in ot~er cent~r progr~ms. Application deadlme: April l. NatiolUil Trust for Historic p.reservatlon Student Intern program-~pro.vides .· . work learning ex-perience for un- dergraduate and graduat~ students in a variety of museum operations, . including ar- chitectural history, marketing art history, archaeology, drama, education, landscape architecture and history. Deadline: March 15. National Farmers' Co· operative Summer A.ppren• Hceship Pro g:ram--S t. Lawrence County, NY. Length of program varies from 1-6 months. Deadlin~~ .March 1. Student Editor In:tei\DShlps- Highwire _Magazine has openings throughout the year for student editor interns. These positions are paid, full-time, 6- 12 month jobs designed for students who are taking time off from school or pllfsuing in- dependent .studies. ' Art Internsbip...:Tbe Emma Willard School is seeking a student with a background in art history and-or studio art to pr!)pare for exhibit a ·collection of 75 pieces of sculpture. The internship is one week in March (dates flexible). Room and stipend provided. Deadline: , March 4. New York State Assembly Summer Intern Prl)gram--open to Juniors, Seniors, graduate students who ar~ residents of New York State. Applicants should have superior academic records, strong research and analytical skills, and a definite interest in public policy development and the function of the legislature. Highly com- ,petitive. Deadline: .April 1. · State Bank of Albany Sum· mer llltern PJ'ogram-open to Juniors· and Seniors. Deadline: March 31. Northwestern Mutual LUe Internship-for Juniors seeking paid summer experienc.e in 11 challenging . career of professional service. Students interested in this · Sales Representative position should be motivated to run and promote their own b~inesses. For infonnation on Intern- ships, contact the. Car~er Center. HELP WANTED' Part-tilne person parMime weekends and some weekdays. General office work and some mechanical. Apply in person U- Haul Co., 2516 Hamburg St., ·Rotterdam, NY. Someone to read for a blind person. Must be interested in philosephy and typing is desirable. 4-8 hours per week. Starting date: , As soon as possible. $4 an hour. Telephone 346-1608. Huron St., Schenec- tady, NY\ Student typing done--term papers, etc. Please contact 37o- 5222. PRIZEDAY Philosophy Department. The Cella Glaobach PriZe for Bible Scbolarsbtp Studies may be awarded at Prize Day, May 7,~1983. Established ·in 1980, the prize is intended to \further interest in the cultural 13ignificance of the Bible from the secular point .of view.\ Entry into the competition for the prize requires submission of an- essay dealing with a topic drawn. from. any of the following areas: \Literary and textual critici<:~m of Biblical subjects; Development and production ·of a short story or play based on the Bible·; Bib:lical ar- chaeology; Biblical historicity; or Philosophy of the Bible.\ Students who wishto enter the competition Should submit their materials pseudonymously (accompanied by a sealed envelope containing the author's name) to Marge Windstone in Humanities 21:5 not later thanMarcb 28, 1983; Further information is available in the Philosophy Department. SCHOLARSHIPS The BPW Foundation Loan Fund for W.omenin Englneerlng Studies provides loans for tuition, fees and related ex- penses. Loans may be for up to $10,000 at 7 percent interest. Repayment begins one~ year after program completion with .five years to repay. Women students are eligible if they are enrolled in at least two courses · The Philosophy Department per term and have junior or invites seniors to submit essays· senior status. Please see the in competition for the Milton Financial Aid Office for further Hymes Sternfel4 P.r~e,. w:\.pich. . . j:nfo~ma,tj.on and applicati9ns. rnay'be awarded at PriZe Day, ···Deadline· is May 1, 1983. May 7, 1983. The prize is . awarded. \for the best original The Ptll'chasing Management e~say ill;, philosophy by a Association of Eastern New member of the senior class.\ York has announced it will Entries will be judged and the award two $650 scholarships for prize awarded by the faculty of the 83-84: academic year. Full the department. time students above the junior Students who wish to enter the level in 83.:84 with an interest or competition should submit their potential interest in a pur- essays pseudonyously (ac• chasing career are eligible. companied by a sealed envelope Applications are available by containing the author's name) contacting: A.E. Renzi, c-o to Marge Windstone in Mohawk Paper Mills, Inc., PO Humanities 215 not later than ·Box 497, Cohoes, NY 12047. March 28, 1983. Further in- Application deadline is April15. formation is available in the Each award will include a one- Department Arts presents . Lunchtime Harpsichord · Concert Series by Hugh Allen Wilson Every W~d~ Afternoon, Jan. l9·Mar. 2 _-· 12:45-.]:15 p.m. ARTS 202 · The public is cordially invited to attend CAMPUS NEWS year, dues-free membership in the Association with the op- portunity to attend, free of char:ge, all educational meetings, workshops, and seminars sponsored by the Association. Women who are seniors in electrical engineering and planning to pursue graduate education are eligible to apply for the Julie Kiene Fellowship sponsored by the Electrical Women's Round Table. Awards are for $2000. Deadline is March 1. Applications available at the Financial Aid Office. Tbe Lemberg Loan FlUld offers interest-free loans to Jewish men and women. Loan applications are available at the Financial Aid Office and are due by ~pril 1. · Qualified students who are residents of New York State are eligible for Regents Physician Shortage Scho!prshlps. Th~se scholarships provide $1,000 to $4,000 each year for four years of professional study. These scholarships are available to both beginning and advanced medical students who are residents of New York State and agree to practice medicine in an ar~a of New York State designated as having a shortage of physicians. Candidates will be ranked within their priority group in accordance with family income reported on the application ·submitted by ·candidates. MCAT scores will be used only to resolve ties. Applications for scholarships must be postmarked by May 6, 1983. These scholarships for study of medicine are restricted for use in a New York State professional ~chool. However, by special . action of- the Legislature, the scholarship may also be aw~rded to students \accepted by the University of Vermont Medical School; the University of Tel Aviv Sackler School 'Of Medicine; Morehouse College, School of 'Medicine; Meharry, School of Medicine; or University of Puerto Rico, School of Medicine, under a cooperative program established by contract with the State of New York. Please contact: The University of' the State of New York, The State Education . Department, Bureau of Higher and Professional Educational · Testing, Cultural Education Center, Albany, NY 12230. The Golub Foundation (Price Chopper Supermarkets) is offering a. Graduate School Scholarship to be awarded to an undergraduate who plans to attend graduate school. The graduate school must be in an area served by ~ce Chopper • (list available at the Financial Aid Office). Based on scholastic ability. Applications available from: Scholarship ·Committee, Golub Foundation, PO Box 1074, Schenectady, NY 12301. SPEAKERS On Wednesday, March 2, Mary Greenfield of Planned Parenthood will be giving a talk ~ on \Jewish Law and Birth , Control.\ This talk, which is sponsored by JSO-Hillel, will take place at 7:30 in Stage. II in Carnegie. On Thursday, March 3, Marcia Schwen, editor of Matchbox magazine, will be LiHie Vinnie's Pizzeria Free delivery for college '>1' .• 8-12-24 Cut P1zzas Specia 1 price. on party orders Just ask for Vinnie Indiana Jones-the new hera from the creators of JAWS and STAR WARS. ll\RAMOUNT PC TUllES Pl=lts A LUCASFILM LTD- , A SlEVf~ 511ELBEilG F\m ' ~, ..... HARFHSON FORO 2-25 - 2·27, 7:30 and 10:00 55016 $1.00 '·-.:· \'\•··,.,.· oorCOUIV\\\\!' r A PARAMOuNT roruRE ~··\\< PG PMiaml GUIJAIICE SUiJGEST£D<£§'j) ~\ \\ ··• :~\~. \·'\'••Ill ,,, II(Vpu {\; SOh\£MATEAIA(.,M~VNOTBESU1Ti\81..EFOflCHILDRtt.l :... ktl\ 1 •~F-<': \. .~· : · ,...

I • Page 16 OONOORDIE'NS18, .February 14, 198$ CAMPUS NEWS SPEAKER.S cont'd. giving a talk: 0-n ''The Death Penalty.'' Her talk,. which is sponsofed by the Union College chapter of. Anut:esty Inter· .national, will be ·held at 7:30 p.m. in: · Strauss Lounge in Carnegie Hall. CLASSJFIEDS .. ·Parker Hill Trauportat!on is new offering round trip charter bll$ service to points in Boston, Long Island and Westchester, for the spring break. The buses will leave from Union at the end of finals week and will return on Sunday before classes begin. GREEK NEWS , · Our rates are significantly lower than Greyhound rates. Tickets are on sale at Carnegie - =======.:;::::. ======= .. Hall and in 351 Fox (6523). - · Chi Psi's 17th Annual 'Race NUe' will be ()n Saturday, Feb. · Lost: At Psi Upsilon, a gold 26 1983 p t t' · 10 cross with a diamond chip in the · ·' • ,os · un.e IS p.m. mt'ddle. Great se·ntt'-m··· enta'l Ttckets are $2. in advance and $3 · at the d(lol:. Track attire value. Please return. Please requested:. Games, shot bar, call 6801. Reward offered. ..· and dancing~ There Will:· be a. Theta Delta CbJ J,Jand Pal\ty.·qn Fri., Feb. 25 at 9 p.m. The· band; featured Will be the Cheaters. One dollar admission, free beer, punch and schnapps. Proper ·ID reqtdred. STUDY ABROA·D Union Tenns Abroad is now accepting applt~ations for the summer, 1983, Socialized Medicb;le program. For more ·information and application .. blanks please see ~~fessor Thomas, Professor Baker or· Jean Freeman in the Terms Abroad office, HU211. For sale: 1978 Datsun B· nOGX. 42,.000 miles, good condition, _new Clutch, brakes, and stereo ( equaUzer included). Maroon. Can be seen m Fox parking lot. Asking $1,100 or best offer. Call Steve \at 6565 after Saturday. For sale: IBM Electric Typewriter-$150 .. Contact Pat at the Career Center for in· formation. To all Actors and Actresses: There will be a student .production this spring and we need people. The play is being student-written, stude·nt .. dir- ected, and student produced. Auditions are to oo held ~uring · SCHEDULE OF EVENTS FOR THE WEEK OF Feb. 24- March 2 Thu·rsday, Feb. 24~-Winter Carnival! Friday, Feb. 25--Winter Carnival! Friday,· Feb. 25--Film: ~~Raiders of the Lost Ark/' 7: 30 and lO p.m. in 55016 Friday,. Feb. 25--Speakers Forum presents: Curtis Sliwa of the Guardia·n Angels, 8 p.m. in MemQrial Chapel, fickets available in the Box Office, $1 with Union 10 Friday; Feb. 25--Coffeehouse presents Karen , Weisgerber & Friends, 8 p.m. in The Cabaret Room. Admission $1.50. . Friday, 'F-ej). 25--Theta Delta Chi Band Party, 9 p.m., admission $1. , Saturday, Feb. 26--Film: \Ra.iders of the Lost Ark,\ 1:30 & 10 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 26--Women's Glee Club Concert with Rutgers, 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel . Sunday, Feb. 27-- Tri-County Indoor Track Meet, 9 a.m.-6 p.m. in the Fieldhouse Sunday, Feb. 27--Film: 11 Raiders of the Lost Ark,\ 7:30 & 10 p.m. Sunday, Feb. 27--Student Concert Band Concert in Memorial .Chapel, time to be announcect Monday, Feb. 28--Lecture on Nuclear Arms Limitation by Prof. Underwood, 4-6 p.m. in SS016 Tuesday, March 1--Film.: \·Diamonds are Forever,\ 7, 9, & 11 in SS016 . PANAVISioN· · r:cHNICOLoR· Undod ArhBIB the first week of Spring Tenn. Look for future announcements.· I see you you lqtow l'U ahvpys love you! I guess thiS i$ just my· way of saying l'm sorry. -Your brother · · The Louuge Club announces its monthly celebration of relaxation. The time and date of this. event wm not be an- nounced. Celebrate with us wherever you are. ~ Is the cat really possessed? Dadd~\$qirl to say what tbl$ pastmontta ~s meant to me. The ,da~s lla:ve aU been special. . :rtte mg~ts, well they have been'· ku~~ of em. A N•tural Family ·PiaDDlng ce»U11$e,. give!) by Family Life Information Center, will begin on Friday, Marcb 4, 1983, from 8-10 p.m. in room 3513, Cusack Wing, St. Peter's Hospital, Albany. . Reservati()ns and further information EJ.re available. Call Peggy Furlong, 463-1176. PERSO·NALS Brown eyes--I had the per- Sonals in my hand and it was irrestible. I had to write you one. Can I have mine outlined in blue too? Please?! Love and shaving cream--no.w they really know whose it is. Aren~t you embarrassed? Good. Org~ational~ meeting .for new Fraternity Friday at 4:30. All interested candidates are welcome. - · To the brothers of Zeta Beta Tau - Just a polite, neutral note. Not offensive nor libel Just stating that these types of personals a.·re · boring , and pa_rticularly not fun. But if that's the way you want it, then we shall abide - your devoted _ pledges To my sister - although I don't see you as much as I would like. Believe me, it's not intentional. No matter bow-little · The Sports line WRUC'S LIVE CALL IN SPORTS TALK SHOW Your chance to talk sports LIVE over the air. Thursday 11:30 pm WRCU 90.0 FM Weds., 3-1 7, 9 and 11 SS--016 $1.00 Or is it jwit its tmconven~ronal eating habits? Either· way, it · has only 2 more strikes. : · : Movies, beer, wine. feodj • ; ,, You make them an even·better. Thanks L. AUV-599 ·. 1 • '·:barr.asslng .. '' . aer~·s. to fru~tra~i9ll~~de~ctatl(!n and .tb_e dream; .of ~a; ~iAgte,:J...et' s find t~gs this time~ Lo~e ya;, Tease D<)ggus:. :-S~uinmus. Thou smell~~hlike. tlle. privatf,l parts Hey John, Sorry I go,t your: : · of ev~rybOdy~$ ·~~ti~s. Brandt sheets so wet, but som~times. I does ::P by ·p the· best · just .get 'carried .awayl_ tV~>u · really ought to get sat~, ~n~st). . To our favorite dippy pledge: Havesou fi&u:ted ~u~ w:tiicb two Oh Happy Day! ! ! ! I'm j;ust a. · of us -we11e lying? Oh, by the · female, I can't understand such ~ay, ~hie~ .. iS, o/O~Se (better?) .things·. Hey ltids warma · buy, -,.,qu~~titiY or quabty . · •. The cool some ;toys???? · an9nym9usgang, · · _ Mike, I don't ·know if you · Sponge:, · bi'kiog .:'(x:iots, snow, •. notices, but I ahnost fell asleep shag c~tpets .•. bl:l~ \Ve still love . dur~g ~'making love\ . . _· , . .. you anyw,ay; L & D ':ple l)ouse, is blue. The snow is white. And . . • · · · Erlc · &--Good to see you 'finally'· are moving .up in· the· world...or rather., out of that old·. room in Fox, away from t)lose loser · roollllllal~s-! . The; were just a. .builch of stinktn\ voles anyway. Wanna get do-wn tonight? Your SEX Partner- . - - ' ' . . ·. Fttjer: Here's to best friends and best roommates', for now and f.orever. You :rp.ean tr lot to -me buddy and I am neyer g()ing . to forget my college ·· years . thanks to you. We're going to make it! IJL · Leslie,. Writing and rummy;· what interesting ways to keep me up nights. Keep your chin up and; remember that the Winter- is almost over and Schenectady (believe or not), can be really a lot of. fun ·in the spring. Come collect your seven one day~ The Writer · Sle~~y;:. Sorey love; .put you're · shQt. on both accounts, even if yow are only- o~e behjnd. And yes, this is a (very). personal to you! Sleazy 2 . . · , · · zan:-lch :mochte ~in Stuck! Quel rn.orceau!:. You're. swell-! am sure glad-l g9t you instead ' of them\\:'ha, ha: Sorry, but I've - got to get th~ , nikkuta out of here.- May;be. th~~s wilt get better-:--ah) hes~~the- happy, carefree. days of spring. Your ·. ··. 'pod, Ab . .. . . _Ma1t~It'stafumg, .. ~·this if; no place to discu8s. thfs .•.• they're after us . , .• our numbers a,re up .... l don,t know what to sa:y, maybe t've sa_id enough · already. l ~hall iniss you greatly. Maybe , I'll . call you eol!ect. Yotj.r good. buddy, Gumby-··. . . BJI.H., Jr.--Sorry, didn't mean to :startle you . .,;,A .. F .L. J. Aigner: Thank you! Thank Suzanne, Thank- you for the · YO!l! Thank yout Thank you! - card. Itmeant a lotto hear from. 'T A D S -- ' you.:,winter is a tough term, but . P.S. We like your sl10es. with a little luck maybe old friends can get together in the. ..OH,. HAPPY DAY! ! ! spring- a couple of times -and circumcise rectangles together. IJL . Electric CitY • -Comics & Magazines-- 1704 Van Vranken' Ave. (corn~rof Mason & VanVranken iust 4 blocks from campus!) Featuring: ©MARVEL -new ·comics: Including Camelot 3000, Moon Knight and other Direcf•onl-y books. ...... back issues:· over 40,000 in stock -fantasy magazines: Elfqu~st,.;Cerebus, · ... Heavy meta.l -alter~ative publications ---underground comics: A FULL LINE • K . PHONE 377-.1500 Hours: 12· 7 Tues.-FrL r 11 ~6 sat . - .. - - - fe

---- l to say lll)eant 1ll been !]l they ~ ern. t to i~nand ~' f' ~~ .S 'lnd ;, Tease '· Thou e parts Brandt - pledge: tich two by the letter?) lle cool , snow, tilllove . t you're even if td. And sonal to Stuck! swell- I instead but I've out of vill get happy, ~· Your -. ·• his is no they're s are up ·to say, enough ss you au you buddy, didn't Thank \ MORE PERSONALS Adam-Reaction· positive to fed slash state what? ? ? Adam-Reaction positive . to Fedo.State $$$???' What 1 s the story' here Adam? You're just to!> brilliant fer lis '·measly journalists. Adam-YoU're BRUTAL!!! •· pavid Schmertz?? Mr .. E. Pluribus Unum Salve!. Hope to ma~e · your acquamtan~e soon. Smcerely. Miss Op. C1t. (IBID) . OONOOBDIENSIS, Ft:JbT'J!;(l_ry ~4, 1988· Page 17 Mommy~Have a very happy birthday. I'll love y01,l always~ With love, your child the aspirator SHEMA- Your first one at Union (first what??) All I have to say is that I hope you love me as much as I love you. You're my favorite Gatesman and your · next door neighbor isn!t bad either. Love, Me So, you think you're a stud? Well, I'm still waiting for the bill. . Dano-o and the rest of :FLIC- Good luck tonighCDani L., I've called SPANKY. and be said he'll be flying. in from L.A. fo· Be.nefit the (Chaplain what?) Love, Chocoholic Adam-Give up! You're just too smart! ! l To our new initiates and our one lovely pearl .... we love you all and hope we continue to see good things. .from you. Delta love and ours, the Sisters MV-----It's o.k. to ·have a terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day-even in Australia-LS Di¢kie Fass-Catch ya next time. To my favorite Kansas cbick- It'salmostover! You cando it!! Casty--You're naked and you're a doctor ... botb. I can't believe .r just said that. P.C. and J.B. .SDT Pledges: Keep up. the spirit; just remember, it will be ·worth the wait! Get psyched for all that is ahead. Love, a Fellow Pledge. Ah. Ashley-- This· makes it official. A challenge. By the way-plus 10 social points if underwear worn with suspenders. ril be waiting for rny scorpion .bowL Love, Muffy the Texas A&M centerfold of the month Beth-Happy Birthday!! Just think- .. you can celebrate a couple of times! ! ! Good luck tonight. Get psyched for the weekend. It will be a blast, whatever we end up doing. I love you, YLS Heidi--Happy birthday. Maybe one day we'll make it to that show! Have a good time on your 20th. Love, Randi J. T .-Flames and an oc- cupied sign still didn't give me a clue-haw long were you in there anyhow? Did you need a crowbar? I didn't, well with one maybe! love and deep throat s.s. ,, ANNUAL CAREER DAY/ LUNCHEON UNDECIDED ABOUT YOUR FUTURE? spend .a morning \on-the-job\ with a loc;:al pr-ofessional. . Muscu·lar Dystrop-hy Assoc.i ation Schenectady Rotarians and Local Industry Representatives invite YOU to spend a lllOming in the business world. careers include: ' April 8th-9th 7 p.m.- 7 a.m. / . Regist~r in Carnegie on Thu.rsday, Feb. 24 and Friday, Feb. ~5 f~om 12 p.m. ~ntil4p.m. Oh, sure, we could cut down on the size, use artificial cheese, skimp on the items and then sell it two for one. But we just don't believe in doing bu$iness that way. . This is no cheap .. ··pizza. At Domino's Pizza, we believe in large helpings and quality ingredients. Why, that's why people ldVe pizza. And we think that's where the value is. For over 20 years, we've b~en makinq the best pizza we !Qnow how, and we've be.en delivering it free, in 30 minutes or less. Call us, tonight: Fast, Free Delivery 127NottTerrace . 372-4441 We use only 100% real dairy cheese. Drivers carry under $20; Limited delivery area @1982 Domino's Pizza. Inc. \ HOSPIT~ PUBLIC RELATIONS ENGINEERING BANKING CHEMISTRY AVIATION HUMI>.N SERVICJ::S TRAVEL AGENT LIBRARJ:ES SALES AND MARKETING · AND MANY MOREt\ (SIGN UP kN iiDVI\NCE: M]\BC!j l. & 2 At THE CAREER CENTER} SPACE IS LIMITED, SO HURRY!! ....... Sponsored by: Schenectady Rotary Club and The Career Center $1.50offany 16\ l-item or more Pizza One Coupon Per Pizza Expires.: Mar. 10, 1983 FAST, FREE DELIVERY 127 Not1 Terrace PHONE: l72-4441 Domino's Pizza Delivers.'\ ~--------------. ~1.00 $1.00 off any size l-item or more Pizza One-Coupon per Pizza Expires: Mar. 10, 1983 FAST, FREE DELIVERY 127 Nott Terrace· 1»HONE: 372-4441 L-------------~~ ~-------~------, $1.00 $1.00off any size l-item or more Pizza One Coupon per Pizza Expires: Mar. 10, 1983 FAST, FREE DELIVERY 127 Nott Terrace PHONE: 372-4441 L-------~------~ r-,---·------- .... --- ....... I ·FREE : I I I EXTRA :THICK CRUST ® I Oil Any Size Pizza I 12'' 0 16''0 I 1 . . .- One Coupon per Pizza 1 Expires: Mar. 10, 1983 FAST, FREE'DELIVERY , l 121 NottTerrace ·I PHONE: 37~4441 ~~~--~-~-~~----J

-, .. Page 18 OONVORD1EN81S, Febnur,ry .e4, 1983 SPORTS · · · OFF TO L.l. for States Finally, Women Face Women ·ByL.A.F. Sports Staff Even though the swimming team is officially. a men's team, the women's portion of the team has had a fairly successful season. The women's state swimming meet beginning today and continuing through Saturday at '-SUNY Stoney Brook on L.I. The women are ~ing represented by Betsy Boutwell, Tricia Bowering, Lisa Freed and Sharon Pearl. All four met the required qualifying 'HOW'S YOUR PERSONAL liBRARY? Did you know there's a second-hand book shop only one block from campus? Our stock of thousands of out-of-print volumes, entirely free of textbooks and paperbacks, is frequented by · · both st1,1dents and professors who. ar~ building libraries. We're open every afternoon, and welcome browsers. Somers Bookshop 841 Union Street (across Gillespie) times in a variety of events. As a team, the women have qualified in all of the relay events: the 800 free, 400 free, 200 medley and the 400 medley._ They hope to do well in these events since their actual qualifying times were well below the standardS set. Individually, the group will be swimming a full schedule. Bowering will be swimming the 50 and 100 meter fre~style, Freed the 50, 100 and 200 meter backstroke. Freed had. also qualified for the 200 l.M. and the .. .toke 3rd in CD tourney 100 free but becaUse there is a limit on the number of events one switnmer can. swim, she · will have -to scratch these two events. Also swimming for Union is Pearl in· the 200 backstroke, and the 500 and 1650 meter freestyle. events. The women's part of the Union swim team is ready for the states. They hope to do especiallY_ well since they will be swimming · against other women. All season the Union women swam against mostly men. This concept is quite appealing to the Union women!! Women's H.oop Finishes 8-9 By S. J .. BLOOMBERG Sports Staff The women's basketball team ended' its season this past weekend at the. Capital District Tournament with one win and a loss making their final record 8- 8. In the first game against RPI, Union lost by twelve points, as their offense was impotent. After barely losing to RPI during the regular season the game was somewhat of a dis'lppointment to the Dut- chwomen. In Saturday's consolation match against St. Rose the Union squad achieved its final victory of the season wipning by one point in the last minute of the game. This was significant, e~pecially after Union's loss to St. Rose during the regular season. In this game, Cay Lynch was the high scorer with 14 points followed by Julie Miller with 12 points. Both Lynch and Miller made the all- tournament team. In general, the team ·was pleasl!d with the 1982~3 season emphasizing the strength of both veteran players and the freshmen. Rebecca Clemente had a particularly good season as she was one of the top three scorers. The team will be losing one senior, Brenda Hugick, who has been a reliable player for four years with great ball handling skill. The Dutchwomen have potential for an even stronger team in their next season With eight of nine players returning, · along with incoming freshmen. The squad is well on its way to being a strong contender in the next few years. Bas~ketball Continued from page. 20 The Dlltchman concluded their week with their third win in five days over North Adams St. Coming off a six-game Winning streak, the Mohaw~sof North Adams were Iookirig to end their season on a winning note but the NCAA tournament · .hopeful Dutchmen led by a 33~ point performance .frorn jUnior guard Joe Wood stymied theil' hopes. Wood and Joe ClintQn combined· for 23 first half markers to give Union a 33-28 _ half.:tim~ lead:- Althougll Union was able to Qpen up a 43-30 lead with 16:33 remaining, a stubborn zone defense and good shnoting . ~ter .22 game&, the Dut- chlnen stand at-1~, their best record in years. They. played RPI last nlght.and finished up at Clarkson 011 _Fd~y, They are very. much in cont~ntion for the NCAA tournament bid but won't go very far in the tournament unless the following. h. appens: The big men have to bit the boards harder and eliminate second and third shots by _their opponents'; · Feigelson and Doherty have to _produce more on offense or their defenders will slack off onto D'Orazio and Wood; D'Orazio must go to the hoop more. and draw more fouls -tnis will open up the game ' '1'1 _,, ;A \l ~ .. , ,. ,. '\ ,, .. Junior Co-captain Joe Wood drives baseline for two of his 12 points against Albany. Wood scored 17against Middlebury and 33 against -North Ada.ms St. in other games last week. - allowed tbe Mohawks to come back to within five points. Union built up their lead once again and-held a 75.65 advantage with only 1:10 remaining in the .. ,...,.,., ~r . . 1r, ~ ~. J.-.~.· . '_. _ _ •·, 1 'ai. \'-~· •:~~:ilSISSS:S~~~ game. Uncharacteristic niissed .1r ~ ..W~ ......- .,..., ~ I:.JI..,..'- • ~,.A1'\' foul shot$ down the stretch e ~leo•'\)()~c/)f>MPOI\ I U M ~!~h~r~:lli~ ~t~c~:S ~£ fh'; more for the guards; n~orazio must also stay ·out ·of foul trouble - that means getting better position; Coal!h Scanlon must continue to use his subs strategically especially Bartlett and Laux; finally, guards Clinton and Wood must continue to play the outstanding ball which they have played all season long. The basketball Dutchmen have come a long way this season, if they can put it all together, who knows how ,far they can go? ~ Dutchmen but Union managed 109 Canal ~quare, nroactway, ~ch'dy. Phone: 374-4332 -• PIZZA • -N.Y.S Style Sicillian Sty1e (Ueepdish) 8\ cut 12\ cut · 24\ cut Cheese 4.50 5.50 . 8.75 to hang on for the 79-74 win. The only other scorers for Union besides Woods' 33 points were Clinton, D'Ora~io and Bartlett with 22, 16, and 8 points 0 0 .c c. 1- 0:: Ex. Chtoese Sausage_ Mushroom Pepperoni Greton Peppers Meatballs Onions Anchovie$ •· Any Add Item s.5o 6.50 fo.so 5.50 6.50 10.50 respectively. ,..,.._.....,.......,. ____ .,....._Clip &, Save---------....., Papa Cicco's Deluxe WHITE PIZZA OUR SPECIALTY ~ Try On~ Today- Pizza with. no sauce Sprinkled wi.th Olive Oil and Freah Car He with mounds of Mozzarrlla..cheese 5.5-o 6.so 1 o.5o 5.50 6.50 10.50 ~.~0 6.50 10.50 5.50 6.50 10.50 5.50 6.50 10.50 5.50 6.50 10.50 .75 1.00 1.75 10.00 13.50 21.00 THE SHRIMP THE WHITE SCAMPI d..AM SAUCE PIZZA PIZZA Shrimp and Car lie Pi;Eza with White Clalfl with Olive Oil and Sauce and Garlic with 'Mo:narelia cheese Mo:ii'arella cheeM Lt. 7.25 t 1 . 4.75 ·5 50. Sicillian 12 cut 8.00 Sicilli;.n 12 cut • 8 cut 6.50 12 cut 7.25 24 cut 10.25 24 cut 9.50 24 cut 11.00 I~TRAMURAL SPRI-NGS EM ESTER ACT IV I TIES MEN's Play Activity' Entries Due Mandatory Meeting Begins Softball (A-League) March 31 April 4-:6_:30 p.m. April 5· Softball ( B-League) Aprill , April 4--6:30 p.m. April 5 Volleyball Aprill1 .April 13 .. 6: 30 p,m. April 18 Lacrosse • April 11 April 13--7:00 p.m. April 18 Frisbee April 11 April 13--7:30 p.m. April 18 WOMEN'S SOftball Aprn 1 April 4--7:00 p.m. April 5 Lacrosse April 11 April 13-·7: 00 p.m. April 19 Frisbee April n April 13-·7:30 p.m. April 19. CO-REC :- SoftbaiT Aprill April 4··7: 30 p.m. April 5 Frisbee April 11 t\Pril 13--7:30 p.m. April 18 CLI PANDSAVE: It is important that you .keep these important dates! ·-- • IT ALlAN SANDWICHES • 'Clip & Save----------1 1\.~atball M~~tbaii.Parmiciana Sausag~ Sausac~ Paqniraana Sau•ace &: P~pJM>rs Ecc Plant Parmigia11~ 2.20' Steak . .. . 2.80 2.60 Salami 1~ Provalone . . . 2.80 2.20, Proaciotto & Provalone . . 3.25 2.60 Sandwit:hea with Pflppers.20' extra 2.45 Sandwiches with Mushrooms Zt' extra 2.70 Sandwiche• with Onion• 10' ,~tra. · Italian Roasted Pepp~rs 25\ 4111ra • SPECIAL TJES 1• Calzon~ All r.t,..n• lolt.d ••II• Ro 1 ooo, \••••· •Plain 2.35 Ham , . 2..75 ''··n•••\•. h.... Sausaee 2.75 P'row,eiotto. 3.05 r----------------------------~---~----------- 1 - FREE MERCHANDISE i I Every time you get a pizza or sandwiches valued at more than : l $4..00 you will receive a coupon ·save them for Free Mercf1andise. 1. 1 15Coupons 18cut Free(cheeseonly) : 1 20Coupons ll2cutFree(cheeseonly) 1 I 25 coupons 124cut Free(llngredlent) 1 l SOf::oupons 1 /:zkegofbeer (3daysnotlc~) · 1 1 100 Coupons Pizza .Party for 25 people with beer at your : 1 dorm or fraternity (2 days notlc:e) . . . 1 L-----------------------~--------------------· WE DELIVER ON CAMPUS PHONE 374-4332. 5-on·S Ba•kotfllall A League Playoffs 1. Breakers-;,;;,--1-----.. Sigma Chi B~v~rs 50') Sun. 2•2? 1 9 p.m. T~es., 2-22. I '!::.:....._fA· 'Sigmit Chi Beavers O.U. Dogs .u Tues., 3-1,8:30 p;m.J:.,..-=---- 2. Sigma Chi Gold . A·LEAGUE S!Jn,. 2·27, 10 p.m. 1 · CHAMPS 3. Chi Psi----' fi..Leigut Blskelb•IIPiayllffs 1. ~lm W~ker'-:;;:-1..------. Unlle!i WA. SC 45 ::;;;---,.. · . Thurs., 2-24, 7 ·p.m. 1 . Tues., 2-22, 1 P~.a. S.M.o.-.....;..--t S.M.<!. 5() . · · Sun., 2·27, 7 p.m. 5. Cartoons i7.'1~:-1~--..J Thun .• _2- ...... 24._1_p._m.__. 1 Tues., 3. 1 , 7 p.m. 4. :K-Men 3. D.IJ.N.K.S.\\\;\;;=j.-----..4 rnurs., 2·24, 9 p.m. 1 6.FIJI---......_. Sun., 2·27, 8 p.m. 7. Delle Chl2\7 Thuri,, 2-2A, 10 p.m. 1 . 2. D.U. Devlls,........;.-....1 B·LEAGUE CHAMPS • •

- Out- best iyed 1pat are r the 700''t nent ens: the nate their and nore ders 'and 1 the fouls :arne 0 0 -a nts nst razio foul subs ball all long put how 5· 18 18 18 5. 19 19. 18 1- 0:: OONCOBDIENS.IS, February 24~ 198~. Page 19 Swimmers Win: In States ByS.J,j, · Spolil! Staff on Wednesday, February 16, the Union CoUege Swim,. Team traveled to Utica to do battle 3 gamst the P!oneers of :Uti~a, When the battle was over, l:Jmon emerged victorious closing out their seas~;m with a 64-43 Wiri and raised their record, to two wins and ten losses. Union out-swam Utica in almost every event as Union's depth and lack of team depth on Utica's part l:lllowed the Dutchmen to dolllinate the meet right from the first event. Capturingnfirst ln the 4QO medley relay was the team of Steve Jacobs, Brian Chabot, Mitchell Kaplan and Steve Zehl (4:11.17). First in the 1000 yd. free was Mike Fox (12:20.00), Ron Newbold won the 200 free / (201.04.), Captain Chris HQwd won the 200 I.M. (2:28.87), and the team .of · Abbey, Newbold, Howd and Leon Hodes won the 400 .free relay;· Taking second for Union were.: Abbey (200 ft.}, .Zehl (50 fr.); Hodes {200 I.M.), Newbold (100 fr.), Fox (500 fr.), and Chabot (.200 .hr.). Also swim- ming well for Union were Shar<m Pearl, Betsy Boutwell, Tricia Boweting, Lisa Freed, John . Whalen, Lloyd Maliner~ AnnaMarie Loftus, Jim Mar- shall and Katja Bock. On February 24, 25, and 26; the men will be traveling to Rochester (o participate in the. Upper New York State S-lVimrq.ing Championships. There will be schools from divisions I,. II, and HI there. Representing Union will be , captain Chris Howd (200 I.M., 100 fly, 100 free)., Jrs. Steve Jacobs (100back, 200back) and Ron Newbold (50, 100 and 200 freestyle), So.phomore Mike Fox (500, 100 free, 100 fly), Leon Rodes (50 free) and Steve Zehl (50, 100, 200 free). Swimming the 400 and 800 free relays are the team of Abbey, Howd, Newbold, Hodes and the team of Zehl, Kaplan, Fo;s: and Chabot. Swimmmg the 400 medley relay are the teams of Jacobs, Abbey, Howd and Newbold and the team of Kaplan, ·Clllibot_. Fo:x: and Zehl. All the swimmers look forward to doing, their best tiffies of the year. Good luck tQ ·both the men and women · squads. New York Staff! Basketball Poll Division lll 1. Hamilton 2'1-3 2. Buffalo St: 16-S lllf . - · ~ · . Intramural Spot J!t f 3. Hartwick 15-6 4. Potsdam 20-5 5. Union 17-4 6. Old Westbury 18-2 7. Ithaca 15-6 8. John Jay 17-7 9. Albany St. 16;8 9. Staten Island 18-7 ByG.W. Sports Staff This week's Intramural Spotlite is on Phi -Gamma Delta's Hockey team. Playing in the B division, they amassed an amazirrg 13-1-1 recor<;i. They were undefeated in their B division with a 9-0-1 regular season mark. They defeated Delta Phi in the semi-finals as well as beating Alpha Delta Phi in the best-out-of•three final 3-2 and 6-4. Their only loss came at the expense o.f an A-League team. Congratulations to Fijj hockey on a .fine season. Athlete of the Week By DREW HURLEY Sports Staff Athlete of the Week honors go to Cay Lynch of Coach Lynne Barta's 6-9 women's' basketball team . The women's basketball team ended their season this past weekend finisl}ing third in the Capital Distr:ict basketb.all tournament. In a 60-48 openmg round loss to RPI Cay con- tributed ten points, h,ad five . Come to the Races! fun for all • I ··--.. Thoro·bred racing • on film CHI PSI LODGE Saturday, Feb. 26th Post Time 10:00 p.m. Advance Tickets $2.00 At the Door $~.00 rebounds, and blocked two shots. Union defeated St. Rose- in Close second-round action, 55- 54. Lynch scored 14 points and had one rebound and one Steal. For her effort Lynch and teaiillhate Julie Miller won All- tourney team honors . This season marks the third season in a row that Lynch has finished as the team's leading scorer. She finishes this year with 225 points for a 13.2 average, 58 rebounds, 29 steals an<;i eight blocked shots. In her sophomore year Cay led the Dutchwomen with 289 points for the season. Cay also plays field hockey' . and lacrosse for Union. The 5'6\ native of New York City is a psychology major and a sister of the Delta Gamma sorority. Congratulations to Cay and best of luck in lacrosse this spring. 0 0 ..c: D. Cl V'l Cay Lynch · ••••••••••••••••• SUPPORT UN~ION ATHLETI·CS •••••••••••••• SPORTS ••• Those Aches & Pains Sports Talk With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff Two members of pnion College's athletic department are often overlooked when recognition is handed out for squards that enj.oy .banner seasons. Tom Fashouer, Chris LoBello and a host .of students make up Union's . Athletic Training Department that is situated below Achilles Rfuk and that spends most of its time wo~king behind the ~cenes of Umon 's many athletic teams. Tom Fashouer became Union's Head Athletic Trainer over the past summer after ~oming to Schenectady as an AssistantTrainer in 1979. Tom's background is quite impressive as he graduated from Lockhaven State College in '78 and received his M.A. in health educat(on the following year. In that same year Tom obtained his certification from the NAA T, the national governing association for athletic trainers. Tom's versatility is one of his major assets. This versatility was seen over the past fall season as he took over as the trainer. in charge of Dutchmen football after spending the entire prior fall season as the trainer in charge of Dutchmen soccer. Tom's presence is often overlooked by many observers because of his youth that often make_s it easy for him to blend in quite well with many of the teams that .he shares the sidelines with. Joining Tom this year as Union's Assistant Athletic Trainer is Chris LoBello. Chris is a 1980 grad of the University of Mass. and a 1981 graduate of Indiana State's very intensive and well renowned Master's program. Union was very lucky to obtain the services of Bells (as Skating Dutchmen mentor Charlie Morrison calls her) at late notice this summer. Chris from day one has been a major addition to Unio's Training Department as she adds a very personal touch to her fine work with Union's many in- tercollegiate teams. The importance of having a strong Training Department can be expressed best by the many coaches and athletes who come in daily contact with it and rely on the work done by both Tom and Chris. Many coaches have spend restless nights caused by the fear of possibly losing one of his-her fine players to an un- controllable or freak injury. They Will be the first to talk of the importance of having good trainers. The .fall season is the most busy for Tom and Chris with the many nagging problems that come out of football and soccer. Head Football Coach Al Bagnoli and his staff would attest to the fact that, a major reason why Dut- chmen football did so well this past fall was that Union's top players were suited up for action game in and game out because of the work . done by Union's athletic training staff. The attention and care given by Union's trainers can definitely make the difference as to whether. an injury plagued pl,ayer will be able to contribute on the field instead of just watching from the sidelines. Union's fine program of injury rehabilitation is the main reason why many Union athletes find themselves con- tributing on the field of play instead of simply watching from the sidelines. The philosophy of Union's Athletic Training Department is that once an injury is sustained the best way to insure that a player can return to action as soon as possible and avoid future nagging problems is tl:lrough intensive rehabilitation practices. Rehabilitation helps the athlete strengthen his-her trouble area to help avoid future recurring problems that could limit their involvement. Many schools just tape 'athletes and go no further in their injury treatment. Tom and Chris have devised ex- tensive rehabilatory programs that each·athlete must complete each day prior to taping or wrapping. The best way to exemplify this program of rehabilitation is thro)lgh the description of the daily program that an athlete /with a sprained ankle goes through. Each day prior to practice the specific athlete comes into the_ training room below the rink and starts off by soaking his ankle in a bucket filled with water and ice. After 20 minutes in the bucket he proceeds to engaging in a number of specific exercises that are designed to strengthen his ankles and help avoid future recurring problems. These exercises include such simple things as jumping rope, step- ups and work with ankle weights. Once these tasks are completed, then comes the time for being taped or wrapped by Tom, Chris, or many of their hard working student trainers. One would be amazed at the number of institutions that fail to institute such a program that is used by Union's trainers in an attempt to keep as many athletes as healthy as p41Siidble. Tom and Chris are also artists in their own rights as they are continually creating different pads and supports to protect Dutchmen competitors. A good example of this is the a(lditional padding that they have created to protect many of Union's Skating Dutchmen. Through research they were able to devise a pade to be put on hockey playerss shoulder pads to help prevent shoulder in- juries caused by the constant banging up against the glass and boards. Little things such as these additional pads for hockey players are a good example of the many things that Tom and Chris do that make a big .difference in the long run. It's truly amazing that these two find the time to do such important work in between the constant daily chores and travel that is involved with their job. A big round of applause has to go out to these two integral members of Union's Athletic Department that so often never receive the recognition that they so richly deserve. TYPING .382-5668 ·- - r:

Page 20 OONCORDIENS1S, Fe·b1'fl4.rY B-4, 1988 SPORTS ••• NCAA tourney-bound? Basketball BOunces Back 0 0 By RICK SAPIR Sports Staff At a point in the season when every game is crucial the Dutchmen came bouncing back from a loss to Hamilton with three victories last week. Although the winning margins were narrow- 54-50 over Albany, 73-66 over Middlebury and 79-74 over North Adams St., the Dutchmen were in the driver's seat throughout all the games and did the things they had to do in order to win. · The Great Danes (15-7) of Albany came into the Memorial Fieldhouse on Thursday night for the second time this season, and for the second time they left with .another loss on their slate. The start of the · game was taken out of the offense by Albany's ·box .. and-one defense with Dan Croutier hounding the senior captain. Still the Dut- chmen were able to manage a 21-19lead at the half a~; center Ken D'Orazio hit for eight points from th~ outside and' Joe Wood and Kevin Bartlett connected for six and five points respectively .. The Danes came out of the halftime break to outscore Union 8-2 and go up by fow- 27- 23. After trading baskets a couple of times, Union went on an eight point tear, five of which were. scored by D'Orazio. The Danes momentarily took the lead once again but four con- secutive points by forward Kevin Bartlett gave Union a 38:.- 37 lead, one that they would not .c:: c. ....: ~ Jl;.. Sophomore center Ken D'Orazio fights Albany's John Dieckel man for rebound last Thursday night. D'Orazio was high scorer .for the Dutchmen with 19 points as they beat the Great Danes 54-50. delayed due to a problem with relinquish for the rest of the the scoreboard clock which was game. Albany went over the inoperable for the game. The foul limit at 7:10 and Bartlett slow start typified the pace of and Wood took advantage by the game. Mter winning the connecting on both ends of one- opening tap, Albany St. went and-ones. After Clinton kissed into a pseudo stall which was one in off the boards on a nice painstaking for the Albany baseline drive, D'Orazio made a bench since they all have to steal and hustled down court to stand until the Danes score. The take an assist from Joe Wood to first half was characterized by make the score 54-45 at 2:20 and missed easy shots, questionable open liP the bjggest lead of the calls by the . ref, numerous game. This was the end of the second and third shots by scoring for Union but it was all Albany and Joe Clinton being they would need as the game SPORTS HAPPENINGS Feb. 24-Mar. 3 Basketball Men's Track Women's Tr~ck Feb. 25 at Clarkson 8:00 Feb.26at RPIInvy. 12:00 Feb. 25 NYSAIAW (H) 8:00 Feb. 26 NYSAIAW {H) 9:00a.m. Men's Swimming Feb. 24-26 at Rochester Upper NYS Swimming Championships Women's Swimming Feb. 24·26 at SUNY Stony Brook State Swimming Champibnships Union 54 Union 73 Union 79 Elrriira 4 North Adams 5 Union 5 Hamilton 7 SCOREBOARD BASKETBALL ( 18-4) Albany St. 50 Middlebury 66 North Adams St. 14 HOCKEY (8-10-2) Union 1 Union 4 New Havens Union6 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (8.:9) RPI60 Union 55 Union 48 St. Rose 54 ended at~. The win marked the first time iri many years that Albany coach Doc·Sauers had lost to the same team twice in the regular season. Against a sliding Middlebury team(8-l2) it Was evident in the play of the Dutchmen that they were tired and had a hard time getting up for the game. Although Union scored the first six points of the game, their overall play was apathetic, that is with the exception of the play of Joe Clintan. Hitting bombs from the corner, the top of -the. )t~y and tw-naround jumpers, Clinton's shooting display allowed the Dutchmen to take a 37.;:J1 lead into the lockerroom. After being down 19-16 at the 9:30 mark,. Union scored ten unanswered points to move ahead 26-19 at 5:18. Middlebury scored the last six points of the half to cut Union's lead from twelve to six.· Again the Dut- chmen were hurt underneath as the Panthers were able to get second and third shOts. After each team ran off nine point tears in the first ten minutes of. the second half, Union took the lead for good. D'Oraazio, Clinton, and Wood combined for 31 of the Dtuch .. men's 36 second half points. / Accurate free throw shooting, good offensive rebounding and an exciting fast breaking pair of guards were the weapons used by the Dutchmen to win the game 73-68. Clinton finished with 28 points on 12 of 18 shooting from the floor and four of five from the line. He also added four assists and ·three steals to his high point tally. Wood and D'Orazio added seventeen and thirteen points respectively, while D'Orazio had fourteen rebounds and senior forward Jeff Feigelson grabbed ten. Continued on page 18 Albany.Siate Union G F T Croutrer 2 Q. 4· Clroton G .F T 3 3 9 ladoilrtan 2 0 4 Wood 5 2 12 / 7 s 19 OH'!'C·kelman Gatto Thomas Adam Go~ule Hay Hart Totals Mi!1dltbUry Thompson Moger Teal Hackney Betz Shaffer Col von Totals · tlnlori Cllntol'l Wood D'Orado 811r:llett FeigeliiOn total$ 8 3 19 D'Ora!r.O 1 0. 2 Fc•gelsnn 8 0 16 Doherty 0 :z 2 ilntlett .1 1 3 Lwx 0 0 0 0 0 0 22 6 50 Totals Union G F T 8 I 17 Clinton 2 D 4 Wood I 1 3 D'Orazio 12 D 24 Feigelson 2 0 4 Doherty 2 I 5 Bartlett 4 1 9 Lliux 31 4 66 Tol;tls 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 6 14 0 0 0 19 16 S4 G F· T 12 4. 28 5 7 17 6 1 13 j, 1 6 0 2 2 2 1 5 1 0 2 28 17 73 . North .t.~ms St. GFT' GFT 7 8 22 McLaughlin 3 1 7 10 13' 33 Reed · 6 10 22 I 0 16Leach S 1 11 A 0 f·Tr.uill 9 5 23 0 0 0 Millett I 0 2 Crane 3 3 9 29 21 19 TOtlll 21 20 74 •· . . Snover stars Senior CQ-capta.iri Joe Clinton directs his teammates on ~n ·inbound' play. The All-American candidate scored 28 po.ints in the Dut- chmen's 73-66 win over Middlebury. ••• playoH picture &,furry Hockey Ties New Ha~ven ByCPSIS Sports Staff The Skating Dutchmen tied New Haven last week to put them in third place in the battle· for an ECAC playoff spot. Despite losing their two other games, the tie at .New Haven boosted the Dutchmen above Middlebury and North Adams in the standings as both clubs lost their games. The playoff spot would be the first in the f.ive years since Charlie Morrison became head coach of the Dutchmen. The Dutchman started the week off Tuesday night as tl:).ey lost to the Elniira Screaming ,Eagles 4·1. Tom Hodgins' fifth goal of the season was the sole Union highlight in a rather dismal experience for the Dutchmen. Rough play by both teams and .poor officiating by the referees marred the hockey game throughout. . Freshman Goaltender Wayne McDougall continued to be impressive with his outstanding play. The Dutchmen continued to · flounder on the road as they dropped a crucial game to North Adams- State on Thur- sday. A goal with 37 seconds left gave North Adams a 5-4 victory. The loss, at the time, seemed a deadly blow to Union's playoff chances. Union had dropped behind North Adams and Middlebury into fifth place in the Western Region. Uili.on had also compiled an o-a-o record against the two clubs and would not have been the choice for the playoffs by the selection conunittee, However, when sophomore forward Jamie. Knight put the puck by New Haven netminder Mike Silengo With 55 seconds to play, the DutchJnen were vir- tually assured of a playoff spot. The game was fairly even throughout.. Gill Egan and Knight scored early to. give Union a 2..0 lead whi~ disap- peared by the end of the period. New Haven's Ed Fagan scored two goals, <me on a powerplay, to tie the score. Union's Danny O'Neill and Gary Lingien of New Haven traded goals in the second period; before UNH's Rick Dandreo put !>ne. by McDougall at the start of the last period. After Knight's second .goal, Union continued to press New Haven, but to no avail. · :The tie gives Union a Division Ftwinning percentage of .473 (8- 9-2). · This puts the Dutchmen above Middlebury (7-8-1; .468) andNorthAdams (9-11-1; .452). Union is playing Hamilton as this paper goes to press in a must-win game for the. Dut~ chmen to clinch a playoff spot. The Dutchmen wotild then face either . RIT ol' Oswego on the road, depending on the Platt-- sburgh State-Middlebury game, also on Tuesday. Ice Chips Two Dutchemn who continue to have the hot hand are Brad Nicholson and Gill Egan. Nicholson has scored Elight goals and six assists for four- teen points in his last eight games. Egan has scored eight goals and ten assists for eighteen pojnts since returning from a thumb injury 16' games ago. The scrappy sophomore bas scored a point in his last four games. Track 2nd ByJIMMANN and JAN GLIDDEN Sports Staff On Satufday of this past weeknd, the Union College Women's Track team competed in the Second A;nnual Union In.vitational .for women here at the Union College Field House. Frosh Jenny Snover led the women to a second place finish in a field of eight teams, Hart• wick was the overall winner with 92 ,points as Union followed close behind with a strong score of 81 points. Snover, a pen· tathlete, but competing in~ dividually,, finished third ill both the DOOM run and high jump with marks of 1:23.9 and 5 feet respectively. Jenny also was fourth in the long j}.lm.p with a jump of 4.51M. Helping Jenny in the point-scoring was Andrea Grief, who won the 300M in 46.4 and finished second in the 50M dash with a time of 7 .2, While also coming in fifth in the tong jump at 4.04M. Other scorers were the women's two mlle. relay team in first; senior·Joan O'Connor who was third in the 3000M run in 11:57.2, and senior IngeStockman who was third in the 1500M, with a personal best of 4: 54.5 and fifth in the 800M run in 2:33.7. In addition to these were Karen Krolirikowski who-waSfourth in the shot put· at 8.SOM and Janice Glidd~n who was. fifth in 7.93M. · Congratulations to the team for a fine performance and good luck to those competing this week~nd at the NYSAIAW championships. Union to llost M~t Union College is proud to host the Second Annual NYSAIAW Indoor Track and Field Championships, Friday and Saturday, February 25~26, 1983. Women from 24 New Yotk State colleges are scheduled to compete. The list of teams includes returning 1982 Team ChampiQn CortlaJ;ld State.

