- - - :_;.='.~ th i-1 .ie l r h e ;, e s h s 11 1 2 ;- n n ' ., l- s n n :t ~ .e ~I ). .0 0 ... 0 .c 0. :9 10 ;= c:: (J) (J) ,_ C> .... ,_ <( >- .0 0 .... 0 s::. a. . tXIll, Nq. 17 ISC Representative Steve. Benson suggests the possibility of a nl?w escort service. 1877 March 1 , 1984 Forum Hears Comments By GAYLE ROSENFELD News Editor Last Monday night at 10 p.m., the Student Forum met,, once again, to discuss the week's business at Union. Among thOse topics addressed were Civil Engineering- 12, the Inter- fraternity CouncU (IFC) swim- a-thon, last weekend's Independent Student CQalition (ISC) statewide meeting, the Committee on Committee's . (CoC) up and coming bylaws, financing of the Women's Support Group, the Student Affairs Committee's (SAC) concern over alcohol abuse, and the possibility of a campus escort service. As is normal procedure, PresidentQfthe Student Forum Winthrop Thurlow a$ked each government committee chairman or representative what topics. their respective gro-ups have considered over the last week. Representative to the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) Jamie Danziger was, as usual, the first to present his organization's activities. Ethics in Professionalism students. This commitment is not restricted. to a few, specified courses but rather should be reflected in all aspects of student written work. Con- sequently, faculty members are expected to consider technically-proficient writing as one standard in evaluating student work (especially when completed outside of class).\ This motion was tabled for revisions to be addressed at the AAC~s next meeting. ·Labor Head Lectures Danziger had reported at the preceding forum meeting that a class called Civil Engineering (C. E.) 12, \Ethics in Professionalism,'' had been proposed to act as a half course for civil engineering majors. The class' intent woUld be to consider not only content but mechanics involved in engineering students' writing. However, the AAC had decided that engineers should learn English skills in English com:ses with everyone else. Therefore, the AAC did not_ ·approve this class. Unfor- tunately, C.E. 12 was listed in the course selection sheet. Thus; the AAC has decided to allow this class to be taught for one term only this spring. Also, Danziger alluded to the matter of decreasing the course load requirements of professors at Union. He mentioned that the AAC was looking into this matter, but that it had discovered that Hamilton College was running a survey on this very question. It is hoped that possibly both schools can share the results of their own surveys with each other. The Shelby CUllon Davis Fund and the Economics Department of Union, in conjunction with the Freedom Forum, is sponsoring a lecture by William W. Win- pisinger, president of the International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers, on Monday, March 5 at 8:00 p.m. in Union's Memorial Chapel. Winpisinger is known as an articulate radical spokesman for organized labor in Washington circles as· well as for carrying his message to business, industrial relations and trade association groups elsewhere. Winpisinger defines the mission of the trade union movement as service to the oppressed, disadvantaged, and dispossessed and to that end is ·committed to a more ~quitable distribution of wealth and in- come and to human rights the world over. He is a member ·Of the Executive Committee of the International Metalworkers Fed~ration, a Geneva, Swit- zerland trade union secretariat serving members in free world industrialized countires and in the Third and Fourth Worlds. . He also is founder and president. of the Citizen-Labor Energy Coalition which actively· promotes and seeks to protect the interests of energy con- sumers. Winpisinger.is co-chairn:ian of the U.S. Democratic SoCialist Organizing Commi.ttee; SANE, a citizens' group promoting a sane nuclear weapons · policy and an end to the escalating arrhs race. In addition, he serves on the Executive Council of the AFL- CIO and serves on the National Planning Association Board and the Economic Committee of the American Association for· the United Nations. After serving in the U.S. Navy in WWII, Winpisinger went to work as an auto mechanic and became a member of 1..4M Lodge 1363 in Cleveland. Within two years he was elected local lodge president by his co- workers. In 1951, Winpisinger was appointed to lAM's national Fly to Japan Union will expand its terms abroad to the far east to include a new fifteen week program in Japan, at Kansai-Gaidai University. The university is located near Osaka, Kyoto and Nara, near ancient cultural cities and great industrial centers. Professor Donald Thurston of the history and political science departments will be the resident director for the inaugural program and will teach one of four courses which will make up the curriculum for the program. His course will conc.entrate on modern Japanese history. Students will also take a collrse in spoken Japanese and select the . remaining courses from the Kansai-Gaidai University catalog. Program Requirements Students who apply to the program must have a 2.5 or better cumulative average., Selection of candidates will be based on the student's ap- plication as well as on an in- terview with the Terms Abroad screening committee.. The program fee will be $3,790. which includes tuition, board; and room, and the ad- ministrative costs of the program. This is similar to the cost of a term spent on campus. All scholarships and financial aid received at the College will apply to the program. Students will live with families in order to heighten. their understanding of Japanese customs and culture. The term will begin in Japan on August 29 with a few days of orientation. The semester Will begin on September 3 and end on December 15. An informational meeting for interested stud1mts . will take place on Tuesday, March 6, at 4:30p.m. in S.S. 110. Application blanks can be obtained from the Terms Abroad office in HU 211. Applications will be accepted until Thursday, March 29. field staff and in 1965 moved to the position of lAM National Automotive Co-ordinator. In 1967 he was elected IAM General Vice President and his jurisdictional authority was expanded to include the airline and rail industries. . In the 1970s, Winpisinger became · Resident Vice President, the lAM chief of operations and ·staff officer at headquarters in Washington. In 1977 he was elected Inter- national President. All Union students with I.D-. cards are invited free of charge to the lecture. For further information, contact either Professor Joseph Finkelstein .of Ute history department or Professor Peter Prosper of the economics department. · As a result. of- -this matter, PrOfessor Dwight Phaup, Chairman of the AAC, moved that a Union policy statement be adopted by the AAC in ac- cordance with the College's current governance system. It reads as follows: \Union College is committed to im- proving the writing skills of its Thurlow then asked Danziger if he knew what liberal learning credit was authorized to the clas~, \The Chemistry of Things .. \ Apparently, for the last few years or so, the class has been listed as an F or C -credit. However; when students registered for the course they were .informed it was only for an F credit. Although the class is cancelled because of the in- struct.Qr'.s illness, Tinlrrow requested that Danziger look into the matter. IFC Swlm·a-thon Since the trustees did not meet last week, IFC President Joe Bogan was then asked to speak. Bogan noted that Continued on page 4 Senior Adam Storke st9rring in the Department of the Art's presentation of Shakespeare's play, Hamlet. The performal')ces will continue from March l-3- at 8 p.m. in .the Nott.

~§ ~h -1 ~ ' Ill c: ·;;: 0 .lit! Vl .lit! c: l1l .... u. >. .0 0 - 0 ~ a. ' l ~.. i. t' ·~ 1 I 1 ~ t\l (l , I 1 ~ rtJ ~ c: Q) Q) ... 0 .... .... <( >- .0 0 .... 0 .c: a. CXII:I, No,. 17 ISC Representative Steve Benson suggests the possibility of a Rew escort service. • 1877 March 1, 1984 Forum Hears Comments By GAYLE ROSENFELD News Editor Last Monday night at 10 p.m., the Student Forum met, once again, to discuss the week's business at UnioH. Amang those topics addressed were Civil Engineering 12, the Inter- fraternity Council (IFC) swirn- a-thon, last weekend's Independent Student Coalition (ISC) statewide meeting, the Committee on Committee's (CoC) up and coming bylaws, financing of the Women's Support Group, the Student Affairs Committee's (SAC) concern over alcohol abuse, and the possibility of a campus escort service . As is normal procedure, President of the Student Forum Winthrop Thurlow asked each government committee chairman or representative what topics their respective groups have considered over the last week. Representative to the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) Jamie Danziger was, as usual, the first to present his organization's activities. Ethics in Professionalism students. This commitment is not restricted to a few, specified courses but rather should be reflected in all aspects of student written work. Con· sequently, faculty members are expected to consider technically-proficient writing as one standard in evaluating student work (especially when completed outside of class).\ This motion was tabled for revisions to be addressed at the AAC's next meeting. Labor Head Lectures Danziger had reported at the preceding forum meeting that a class called Civil Engineering (C.E.) 12, \Ethics in Professionalism,\ had been proposed to act as a half course for civil engineering majors. The class' intent would be to consider not only content but mechanics involved in engineering students' writing. However, the AAC had decided that engineers should learn English skills in English courses with everyone else. Therefore, the AAC did not approve this class. Unfor- tunately, C.E. 12 was listed in the course selection sheet. Thus, the AAC has decided to allow this class to be taught for one term only this spring. Also, Danziger alluded to the matter of decreasing the course load requirements of professors at Union. He mentioned that the AAC was looking into this matter, but that it had discovered that Hamilton College was rtmning a survey on this very question. It is hoped that possibly both schools can share the results of their own surveys with each other. The Shelby Cullon Davis Fund and the Economics Department of Union, in conjunction with the Freedom Forum, is sponsoring a lecture by William W. Win- pisinger, president of the International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers, on Monday, March 5 at 8:00 p.m. in Union's Memorial Chapel. Winpisinger is known as an articulate radical spokesman for organized labor in Washington circles as well as for carrying his message to business, industrial relations and trade association groups elsewhere. Winpisinger defines the mission of the trade union movement as service to the oppressed, disadvantaged, and dispossessed and to that end is committed to a more equitable distribution of wealth and in- come and to human rights the world over. He is a member of the Executive Cotrmiittee of the International Metalworkers Federation, a Geneva, Swit- zerland trade tmion secretariat serving members in free world industrialized countires and in the Third and Fourth Worlds. . He also is founder and president of the Citizen-Labor Energy Coalition which actively promotes and seeks to protect the interests of energy con- sumers. Winpisinger is co-chairman of the U.S. Democratic Socialist Organizing Committee; SANE, a citizens' group promoting a sane nuclear weapons policy and an end to the escalating arms race. In addition, he serves on the Executive Council of the AFL- CIO and serves on the National Planning Association Board and the Economic Committee of the American Association for the United Nations. After serving in the U.S. Navy in WWII, Winpisinger went to work as an auto mechanic and became a member of IAM Lodge 1363 in Cleveland. Within two years he was elected local lodge president by his co- workers. In 1951, Winpisinger was appointed to lAM's national Fly to Japan Union will expand its terms abroad to the far east to include a new fifteen week program in Japan, at Kansai-Gaidai University. The university is located near Osaka, Kyoto and Nara, near ancient cultural cities and great industrial centers. Professor Donald Thurston of the history and political science departments will be the resident director for the inaugural program and will teach one of four courses which will make up the curriculum for the program. His course will concentrate on modern Japanese history. Students will also take a course in spoken Japanese and select the remaining courses from the Kansai-Gaidai University catalog. Program Requirements Students who apply to the program must have a 2.5 or better cumulative average .. Selection of candidates will be based on the student's ap- plication as well as on an in- terview with the Terms Abroad screening committee. The program fee will be $3,790. which includes tuition, board, and room, and the ad- ministrative costs of the program. This is similar to the cost of a term spent on campus. All scholarships and financial aid received at the College will apply to the program. Students will live with families in order to heighten their understanding of Japanese customs and culture. The term will begin in Japan on August 29 with a few days of orientation. The semester will begin on September 3 and end on December 15. An informational meeting for interested students will take place on Tuesday. March 6, at 4:30 p.m. in S.S. 110. Application blanks can be obtained from the Terms Abroad office in HU 211. Applications will be accepted until Thursday, March 29. field staff and in 1965 moved to the position of lAM National Automotive Co-ordinator. In 1967 he was elected lAM General Vice President and his jurisdictional authority was expanded to include the airline and rail industries. In the 1970s, Winpisinger became Resident Vice President, the IAM chief of operations and staff officer at headquarters in Washington. In 1977 he was elected Inter- national President. All Union students with I.D. cards are invited free of charge to the lecture. For further information, contact either Professor Joseph Finkelstein of the history department or Professor Peter Prosper of the economics department. As a result of this matter, Professor Dwight Phaup, Chairman of the AAC, moved that a Union policy statement be adopted by the AAC in ac- cordance with the College's current governance system. It reads as follows: ''Union College is committed to im- proving the writing skills of its Thurlow then asked Danziger if he knew what liberal learning credit was authorized to the clas~, \The Chemistry of Things.\ Apparently, for the last few years or so, the class has been listed as an F or C credit. However, when students registered for the course they were informed it was only for an F credit. Although the class is cancelled because of the in- structor's illness, Thurlow requested that Danziger look into the matter. IFC Swim.-a-tbon Since the trustees did not meet last week, IFC President Joe Bogan was then asked to speak. Bogan noted that Continued on page 4 Senior Adam Storke starring in the Department of the Art's presentation of Shakespeare's play, Hamlet. The performanceswHI continue from March 1-3 at a p.m. in the Nott. :::,,,u,:J=,,:~,,.,,,., .... , •..• , ••.. : ••...• , .. ,.,,:, ... J:f.- .. , ... :.::·:··s.·R.a:!:i.:tlg:::gu~cfl.men ... ce.1e:a::f.·::::rxJ.orfh Adam-s ..•...... · ..... , .. l•:·····ll···lillt:~····*

\' c:: .0 .0 0 ~ <:.> > ~ VJ >- ..0 0 - 0 .s:: c. Pagel CONCtJRDIENSIS, Marc:h I. /984 Phone Network Suggested Vice President for Finance, John Hauser, sees many possibHities for new phone network. By DAVE MARIN Staff At its first meeting held last Thursday night, the telecom· munications committee met to discllSs the desired goals of a n,ew telecommunications system and the available Op- (i()ns. The installation of a new phone network would have a significant impact on the entire college community. Vice President for Finance John Hauser, who created' the committee, sees possibilities f()r voice and data com· munications, visual com· munications, and ener.gy management systems, arnong others. Albany Bishop Speaks to Students About. Religion By USA FOLEY Staff On Sunday, February 26, 1984, Reverend Howard J. Hubbard, D.O. Bishop of' Albany, was the celebrant at the 7:30 p.m. mass nuclear arms and its relev~mce to \the survival of the human race. In addition, he wished that student\' would reflect on the values of capitalism and how it interacts with Chrisian values. Bishop Hubbard appeared to at St. John the Evangelist Church. During this mass, the Bishop gave the homily. His t; thoughts were aimedtoward the g College-student population. e Bishop Hubbard began by ~ addressing the congregation . .g · First, he recognized the \'~ '- struggle students, have between ~ their desires for material -; success and the drive for their lL ideals. He encouraged stud~nts to pursue their ideals by using the Church as an institutional support. Hubbard believes tbat life not spent in the search for one's ideals will become sterile At an informal meeting, held with students following the mass, he expressed the hope that during their education at Union, students would consider carefully the question of Bishop Howard Hubbard with Sister Joan communicate with the students easily, fielding their questions after the mass. Concerning pornography on campus, Bishop Hubbard said that he disapproved of pornography, regarding it as an exploitation of both men and women; but he added that when viewed to gain insight into society's attitudes towar-d sex, it could prove useful. He concluded by saying that ''it depended from which angle the students viewed the film.\ Bishop Hubbard joined the priesthood immediately after high sehool. He became or- dained after attending the North American Seminary in Rome, Italy, in 1963. His work as a priest involved running a home for drug addicts called Hope House. There he learned the importance of the Church as a supportive institution where peers with similar concerns could meet and find courag~ to follow their good intentions .through with actions. His work led to hJs promotion as Vicar General in 1976 after ten years of service at the Hope House and later to the position of Bisbop of Albany. His concern remains with today's youth. REWARD • REWARD • REWARD • REWARD • REWARD I Early Monday morn.ing., February 27,. the Film Committee display cas~ and a II Risky Business\ poster were stolen from Carnegie Hall. As this disp.lay case is rather expensive and essential to Film Committee publicity, we are offering a reward for information .leading to its ·confiscation. The first person to infotm us of the correct location of the missing box and poster will receive one \Risky Business\ poster and two free tickets to a II spring term movies. Information should be sent to F.i lm Committee, Box 2581 or call Sarah McMahon or Andy Rosen. LOBBY DAY ForT AP Parity Let your voice be .heard i·n Albany Tues.d·ay, March 6th For more lnformat,ion call Steven • 381-9534 or Gregg • 370-6727 Assistant Director-Coordi- nator for Academic Computing, Mark Wysoski, explained qow a new telecommunications system might aff~ct .computer operations at Union. With the . current college telephone lines, a student with his own personal computer must have a modem to communicate with the computers in the computer center. This unit costs the student from one to four hun- dred dollars. With a new phone system that transmits data, students could avoid the cost ef a modem and save money. Considering the large and growing number of students with their own computers, a large and growing part of the campus might find this very useful. Cost Efficient There are a number ·Of other options For data. com- munications on campus, some of which do not use telephone lines. The co:mmittee .• with the help of a consulting firm from New York City, will need to determine what will best serve the needs of the College and what will be cost efficient. Another issue being discussed ' by the. committee is whether dormitory lines should also become part of a new system or continue in their current .state. Senior Ben Heckscher, a student member ·Of the com- mittee, said that .there was considerable debate on the issue at Thursday's meeting. He hopes that with a new network students could avoid the high installation fees presently charged by New York Telephone. He noted that there were some concerns expressed about including student phones in a new system. 'The concerns included the possibility of vandalism, difficulties with billing, and long distance billing. Under the present system, the telephone company has the 1 responsibility for these problems, but if a new system were installed that Union. had to maintain;. the responsi·bility would shift to Union. ln that case, the College would essen-· tiaUy become the phone com· pany and would have to do all maintenance, repairs, and billing, according to Hauser. When asked_ whether a new network coUld save money for the students, Hauser said, \I don't think we snould do it if it's .more expensive/' Faeilities- Telephone ·Coordinator Diane Winkler said that the consulting firm would be conducting a \toll study\ to learn more abQut the usage .of phones ·bY students. . This would nelp to detennine the most efficient system and whether it would be cost ef- fective. . Everyone spoken to on this issue was careful to point out that nothing is definite. There are many possible uses of a new system. The committee will have to decide which uses should be implemented and if the College has an interest in installing a new phone network. If the committee's decision is affirmative, Union could see a . new phone system within one and a half years. AnENTION U·NION STUDENTS: Security wil-l take anyone with a Coll.ege . I D from anywhere on campus to their dorm or nearby, off- campus housing. There is no need to walk alone cit night! Call x6178 ICARUS' CHILDREN A History of the . Dreamers and Doers of Flight through the Mercury Program Friday, March 2, 1984 • 8 p.m. Old Chapel • Union College Schenectady, NY Presented hy Peter Clouse andthe. Civil Engineering Dept. ] ] \lJ c e: tJ () F T tl b s l t 0 J 1 a F. \1 s p I A A li I c r

CONCORDIENSIS, March I, 1984 Page3 Legacy of Blaek Slavery Explored by Paterson ByLINOA M. RAFFAELE Staff \The Meaning of Slavery within American Hifltory and Culture\ was the title of an exCiting and informative lec- ture presented by Professor Orlando Paterson o!l Tuesday, February 21, in Strauss Lounge. The lecture was made possible through an IEF grant received by Professor of Political Science-- and Dean of Undergraduate Affairs William Daniels, and Visiting Instructor of Philosophy Felrnon Davis. Paterson, who was born . in Jamaica and studied at the London School of Economics, is a professor of. sociology at Harvard University. He has wdtt~n .extensively on the subjec;:t of slavery,.and his latest pqblication, Slavery and S9cial · Death, earned him the American Sociologic~H Association Award and the Ralph. Bunche. Award for P0litical Science. Tuesday night's , lecture focused on the changes whi9h · have taken place in the last twenty years in the way Americans view slavery. Paterson believes that although slavery was officially abolished in 1865, the legacy of slavery lives on through today and is stjll affecting the lives of Black· Americans in many ways. \Morally it is an evil which cannot be forgotten,\ he says. The dominant viewpoint regarding slavery up until about twenty years ago was. the traditional or abolitionist view. It ·holds that slavery was in- trinsically evil. \It was per- sonally, socially,. and cUlturally destructive, not only for slaves, but also for their masters and for all supporters of'slavery,\ says Paterson. \Not only was it morally wrong, it was also economically disastrous . . . Moreovel!, it divided the country and led.t() civil war . . . Clearly, it was' destructive of American society in general and had to be eliminated.\ In the 1960!s, another view came about to counter the abolitionist view. Advanced mainly by :E{uey Fb.illips, it put forth the belief tilat slavery was a positive experience for Blacks. The plantation is seen as a great school which educated savage Blacks. Masters are seen as the great teachers. WhY. did this viewpoint come about? According to Paterson, it was the result of \Blacks corning to terms with their past.\ In order to take their claim in society, Black Americans needed to establish some continuity and find their roots, an idea formally established in Alex Haley's famous book Roots. To ac- complish this, however, they had to reject the view of their past as passive. They needed to find their place in society. The problem with this viewpoint is that it misses the _ central point. Although slaves 1983-84 Spring Term Regist.ration Procedures Spring term classes will begin at 8:30a.m. on Monday, March 26th. Student .schedules will be distributed to college mailboxes prior to~the start of classes. Students who do not receive a copy of their class schedule will be able to secl.Jre a copy at the Alumni Gymnasium at 8 a.m. on the first day of classes. . .Formal registration and validation of I.D. cards will take plqce in the Gymnasium on. Monday .:;~nd Tue-sday, Marcil 26th and 2~t.lll, from 8:30 to 11:30 a.m. and from 1:00 to 4:00 p.m. Students should report as follows: LAST Nf\ME REPORT A-E •••••••••• Monday morning F·K ••••••••• Monde~y·afternGon L·R •••••••••• Tuesday mor11ing S- Z • • • • • • .. • • Tuesday afternaon Students may report at a time other than ·above, but only if classes interfere. Registration will not be permitted if a student has not settled his spring term bill and any other outstanding indebtedness to the College. The Business Office will handle late pay.ment of term bills and resolve billing problems at the Gym· nasium on Monday.and Tuesday. Completion of and changes in schedules will be handled at the Gymnasium from 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. except for the noon hour .. Friday, March 30th .is the l.ast day .for making schedule adjustments. \Pass-FaH\ requests may be filed during the first week of the term. The deadline is also March 30th. are removed from tne domination of the master, the social structure of slavery itself has not been removed. The supreme irony here is that: \In an attempt to undo their past, Blacks have come close to undoing the importance of slavery.'' They, with thLs courtterview.point, blame whatever problems Black Americans have on causes found outside of slavery. This, in effect, betrays the ugly reality of American slavery. Says Paterson, \The past lives on through the structures of thought which we inhei·it ftom it, and thus slavery is still af- fecting the lives of Black Americans today.'' Professor of Sociology at Harvard University, Orlando Peterson spoke on slavery in history. Edward Evere.tt Hale Chair ... \. Freund Gives Address ByT.CANNON On Tuesday, February 21, Professor Hans Freund gave the traditional induction ad- dress characteristic of those past professors here. at Union who have been appointed to the Edward Everett Hale Chair. The \Chair\ was founded frorn a grant by Harold Blodgett; a former Union student, who gave the money to be given to out- standing English professors to commemorate Blodgett's fondness for one of his professors, Edward Everett Hale. Freund was appointed by English Department Chairman Harry Marten of the English department for his ''out ... standing teaching ability throughout the years\ here_ at Union:- . Freurtd's customary address was introdueed by. President John Morris in front of a large crowd in S.S. 016; Freund's l9cture was entitled ''Polonius at Supper.\ With great enthusiasm, Freund began by introducing some key concepts for his talk. One of these was \anagnorisis a process by which someone performs one act which then becomes performed ·on them. H~ then alluded to Polonius from Shakespeare's Hamlet, beingcalledto dinner, but being dead and being eaten by worms for their dinner; a rather graphic but excellent description of \anagnorisis.\ A general discussion of tragedy followed. Freund believed tragedy was a personal theme and what seemed tragic to him may not seem so tragic to another reader. He also examined Greek tragedy as a possible source for some of Shakespeare's works. However, he posed the difficult question when trymg to do this; could a pagan Greek form of tragedy have been . brought to Shakespeare's J udeo-.Christian world? Freund believed this was unlikely and that Greek tragedy prooably.bowedmtt-as-a majOr influence - some time · before Shakespeare. He cited the differences in religious beliefs between the two eras. Where the Greeks believed they lived in a circular life pattern, characterized by a renewal of all things; the J udeo-Christian believers thought their lives were linear, that when they died they did not become renewed, rather they underwent a new beginning. Also, where the Greeks seemed drawn by a hero half-man and half-god, the Christians looked to Christ, whom they perceived as all God in the form of a man. Freund believed these essential points made Greek influence unlikely in Shakespeare's time. Freund continued by citing the Bible as a more likely source for Shakespeare. In particular, he called attention to the story of creation in Genesis, and believed that the creativity of God, making something out of nothing, was a great inspiration for Shakespeare and all of Christian drama. As long as something can be created, the Christian belief of new begin- nings will be fortified. Freund's address was ·a 1,miqua .combination of scholarship, wit, and ~een in- $ight. In a sense, · his entire _ lecture revolved around his initial concept of '' anagnorisis.'' Shakespeare has been for decades on end the quintessential role model and . influence for writers who followed him, and what Freund did was examine the influences that may have helped Shakespeare become the tragic writer he was; an examination done in a sweeping, thought provoking talk by Hans Freund. Financing Explained By AARON TOFFLER Staff The Finance Committee, as the name suggests, is concerned with the finances of all the student committees and clubs on campus. Student Forum Vice President for Finance and Chairman of the Finance Committee Ben Heckscher explains that the committee allo.cates money' to student activities and organizations. ''We only handle funds from. the student activities fee,\ said Heckscher, a fee that all students pay at the beginning of each term. The one hundred and fourteen dollars per year from each student amounts to a hefty $220,000 for which the Finance Committee is responsible. If a student group needs funding, it must first be approved by the Student Foru:rn, and then should submit a budget to the Finance Committee. This latter com- mittee later decides how much money to give to each group. New developments in the Finance Committee's activities are the recently developed by- laws and the decision to ap- prove funds for the Women's Support Group. The bylaws are simply a way of \laying down policy that we've always used,\ stated Heckscher. The funding for the Women's Support Group was a controversial issue in the Student Forum and was finally approved after much deliberation. The groUP' ... ~ received the full $330 that it · ; 3 requested for the spring term. ~ Currently, the Finance ~ Committee is planning the .... budgets for next year. A !( meeting was held last Tuesday, ~ February 28, in Strauss Lounge o whereby the procedures for the :g student activity group budget a. requests for next year were discussed. The Department ·of Civil Engineering is conducting a third-year review of Prof. Surinder K. Lakhanpal. Any person who wishes to contribute to the department's investigation should submit statements, either oral or in writing, to Prof. Griggs in the Civil Engineering Department.

Pof(e4 CONCORD/ENS/~: Man'h I. 1984 Many Issues Argued by Forum· Continued .from page 1 because of the IFC's swim-a- .thon last Sunday, $2500 was . raised for the leukemia foun- dation. He specifically thanked Phi Gamma Delta for its raising of $600, ·but also gave a general · thank-you to the community for · its support. Third to talk was ISC Representative Steve Benson. Last weekend, a statewide ISC conference was held in New York City. On Friday night the ISC executive board met. On Saturday, an assembly meeting was held. Benson expressed less than enthusiasm for the weekend. Few members at- tended the Saturday gathering. Said Benson, \The ISC is trying to work on its organizational structure\ rigbt now. Apparently there is a lack of . communication amongst the various colleges involved in the ISC. Benson also reiterated that Union's Lobby Day in Albany is still planned for March 6. All interested parties are invited to attend. Chairman of the CoC Jared Squires then discussed the CoC's pending bylaws. Squires believes that the CoC needs one more meeting of its members to formalize its new bylaws. · However, said Squires, there is \no guarantee that they (the bylaws) will be ready for it (the project) turned out to be more work than I anticipated.\ Also Squires reported that the CoC · had met with the founders of the proposed Investment Alliance last Monday at 9 p.m. in the forum room. This infonnal talk was convened so that both the CoC and the Investment Alliance co'uld discuss the possibilities of the alliance's formation as a recognized student club. Next up was Vice President for Finance Ben Heckscher with his weekly report. With the forum's earlier approval of the Women's Support Group as a financed organization on campus, the Finance Com- mittee then discussed what the actual cost of this group would be. The Women's Support Group requested $400 a term to pay a weekly facilatator $20 per hour, two hours per nigbt, for ten weeks during spring term. . Added to this $400 was a request for $20 to cover poster printing ·costs. The group believes that with a membership dues fee amounting to a totarof $50 and a $40 fee paid by a non-student member, the group itself could raise $90 for spring tenn. Thus subtracting this $90 from the group's request of $420, a total of $330 was requested of the Finance Committee. However, although the Finance Com- mittee approved this amount, Chamber Music Concert The Chamber Music Society of Rochester will present a concert at Union Tuesday, March, 6, beginning at 8 p.m. in · Memorial Chapel. Part of the Schenectady Museum-Union Concert Series, the evening will include works by Beethoven, Debussy, Honegger, Gounod, Britten, Stavinsky and Mozart. Tickets are $6 ($3 for students) and are available at . the Schenectady Museum, Community Box: Offices and at the door one hour before the the Student Forum had a lot to say about it. A Lot of Money Said a candid Senlor Representative James Parsons, \I think $20 an hour is a hell of a lot of rnoney.\ Danziger added, \I was in favor of them (the support group) getting funding, but I wasn't in favor of $40 a week., This type of sentiment was expressed by many of the forum's members. However, Squires and Senior Trustee Melissa Viglielmo took another side. \!think said Squires, \it would look very ridiculous if we nickeled and dimed them (student groups).\ Viglielmo noted, \If they (the support group) have something definit.e and planned out, I think more people would become in· volved.\ U the forum only provided a facilatator every other week instead of weekly, enthusiasm within the group might dwindle. After a long debate over the Women's Support Group, which included an opinion from practically every forum member Senior Representative Matt ~~ankin proposed an amendment to the motion of financing the group. Nankin suggested that the funding be lowered from $420 to $220 for spring term this year. Therefore, the group would be allocated $130 for the spring (with the group's own · con- tribution of $90 composing the rest of the $220.). This would leave the student budget with $7'25 remaining on top of its $5000 contingency fund. Vote one (see box) approved the amendment's placement in tlie motion with 9-yes. 5-no and 2- abstain and vote 2 (see box) approved the original motion of financing along with the amendment with 13-yes, 1•no and 2-abstain. Heckscher also presented the other issues discussed at the Finance Committee's last meeting. According to Andy Resnick of the Finance Com- mittee, the Social Committee wishes to give its remaining funds to the Senior Fling Committee. This venture would entail Finance Committee approval if allowed. Resnick also noted that the plans for a pub video system are in their final stages. A contract between the Pub and student activities is in the works. Preliminary plans call for a $1000 contribution from both the Concert and Social Committees and a $2000 contribution from tbe Pub. This would account for the total sum of $4000 needed for the system. A seven person committee would then oversee the use of the jointly held capital equip- ment. The Finance Committee also had. two requests from WRUC. It would like to. increase the record hop· income budget by $200 and the expense budget for records by $200, as well, The motion was made and seconded and voted on with 3-yes, o-no and 1-abstain. The motion reads as follows: \The Finance Committee will increase WRUC Record Hop's income budget (7000) by $200 and increase their capital budget (8612.) by $200~\ WRUC also requested to use $150 from its capital purchase budget to buy a new display case for the station. The motion was. made and seconded. The vote was 3-yes and 1-no. The motion reads as follows: ''The Finance Committee will permit WRUC to use no inore than $150 from object category 8612 to purchase a display case.\ other finance issues were discussed, hut one did raise Some questiovs. Nankin raised the issue of preventing student organizations from using student activities money for political ,purposes. This issue arose because the Black and Latin Student Alliance {BLAS) \This weekend has proved, in a; way, that there's a need. for it (an escort service).'' -Steve Benson sent some students to a con· ference at SUNY, New Paltz from February 25-26. Also, a reminder was given that a mandatory meeting for all student funded groups was to be held on February 28, at 4:30 prn . in Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall to discuss the budget process for the 1984-85 academic year. The budget deadline is set for April 17. The SAC was next to add to the evenings conversation. Apparently, the SAC is distressed over alcohol abuse on campus. At this juncture, Bogan noted that at the IFC meeting on February 22, .the College's alcohol policy was discussed. Bogan implied if the · IFC does not handle this matter efficiently, the Administration will have to join in. The alcohol liability workshop and sub- sequent article in the February 23 issue of Concordiensis opened the eyes of a lot of people to the conseq~ences of ignoring the legal drinking age at fraternity parties. Said Bogan, \Something's definitely going to have to be done in the spring term\ in regards to this issue. Sophomore Chris Siler of the SAC, once again, tQok the floor on this issue. The SAC is currently con· sidering the distribution of a· campus-wide poll on alcohol abuse, its extent, and students' opinions on the subject. \We . still have to work out a few things about it'' notedSiler, but the SAC is looking into the feasibility of such a .poll. into an escort service and to look into ways of improving safety and security of students and their:· property on campus.'' . This proposal (:see box vote 4) · passedunanirnously. Interested·· members then gave the.ir names to Thurlow to be placed on this ad hoc committee. Freshmen :Representative Class Officers Sam White then asked a . ·· question in regards to the ·spli( With the conclusion of winter term. He alluded to the : committee reports, ThurloW suggestion that the term' brought up the idea of rein· commence two days earlier and : stating Class officers. He has that students get two Mondays been contemplating this Idea, off during the winter term .. but would like to enact this However, Thurlow noted that : · possibilitythroughthe College's witlil spring term beginning on . present organi:zational struc· January 3, an earlier two day . · ture~ Oneidea is that each class start of spring term would fall would receive funds that it on January 1, New Year's Day .. · would carry with it, if not spent, Other suggestions were quickly · until its senior year. Each class noted and discussed. by . the • would also collect money forum. through fund raising activities. It was then reported that , Benson added, ''It wo.uld he although the FJhn Committee . interesting to see if the class sold an almost unprecedented spirit could come from fund 1,048 tickets to last weekends' · raising.'' This proposal will be .showing of ''Risky Business,'' considered at a lat.er date. the: Film Committee's display With the approval of last case is .now missing. Although. week's forum minutes, one has nothing to do with the · Heckscher moved to have the other, a request was made that new F.inance Committee bylaws tbose enthusiastic people. who approved since they were may have appreciated the film tabled at the forum:s last itself might see it in their hearts meeting. These bylaws passed to return the case. Only a mere unanimously (see vote3 in box). cardboard request for return of Under \new business,\ the case hangs where this Benson suggested the landmark once resided. possibility of a campus escort Finally, Thurlow closed· the· service. ''This weekend has meeting with a request directed. proved, in a way, that there's a at all Student Forum members. need forit (an escort service),'' \We all have busy schedUles,'' said Benson. Viglielmo added said Thurlow, \we all have a lot that security presently provides of work, but we are here to such a service. \It's (security) serve the students.\ With finals here, it's existing, and it's being encroaching, a time strain on paid for,\ said Viglielmo. A forum members has been proposal was then made by present, but Thurlow asked the Junior Trustee Shari Midoneck. fortun to bear with him until the It reads as follows: to \propose last meeting of the term next for the Student Forum to create Monday. an· ad hoc committee to look . Ben Heckscher Jared Squires Shari Midoneck Melissa Viglielmo Jim Parsons Barb·Rogers Matt Nankin Sue Brand BrianLaux Jaques Simone Chris Siler Andy George Eric Colsman ,. Sam White Joe Bogan Jamie Danziger Steve Moss 1 A N y N y y y y A N y N N y y y abs. z a. A y y y y y y y y ab$. y y y y y y A y y y y y y y N y y y y y y y abs. abs. Total: 9Ym5N•2A 13Y·_lN·2A 16\7 4 y y y y abs. y y y y y y y y y y y abs. 16Y CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS concert begins. For further information, call 372-3651 evenings and weekends. Course for Retired Persons The ~flee of Graduate and Continuing Studies at Union is offering a series of special daytime courses for persons of retirement age, according to Kathy Armstrong, associate dean of graduate and continuing studies. The program began when Harry Marten, associate professor of English at Union, offered his services at no cost to teach a non-credit course for retired persons. \He was in· terested,\ Armstrong said, \in providing an educational op- portunity for this group of people who prefer not to travel in the evening and who might be living on fixed incomes.\ His course, \The Art of Reading: An Introduction to Literature,'' was offered in the spring of 1983. Because of Marten's initiative, another course, \Selected Topics in Geology,\ was offered the same tenn. The success of those pilot courses led to the offering of two or three inexpensively priced daytime non-credit courses each term. In the fall of '83, \The American Novel Between the World Wars,\ \The Shakers: A Unique Way of Life\ and \How Swiss Seniors Keep Fit: Some Lessons For Us?\ were scheduled. This spring, \Traveling in. the New World with an Ecologist\ beg.ins March 20 and \The Art of Listening to Music\ starts March 21. Several of the course's teachers are themselves retired,. Armstrong said. ''Judging from the increasing number of registrants, the coiiliilunity is responding en- thusiastically to the program,\ she added. Attention Upperclass Meal Card Holders: ' Hale House will be open for dinner on March'4 & 11 ' , from 4:30 p~m.-6 p.m. • - • ( r E '] } l

CONCORDIENSIS, March 1, JCJ84 PageS FEATURES East German Perspectives By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor '.'It is ironic that their revolution has implanted within their country all that it proposed to eliminate. It is these same ironies that the East German people are boWld to, yet blind to,\ states Modem Languages Professor A!lton Warde, who returned from a journey to. East Germany this past Fall Term. . Professor Anton Warde, Chairman of the Modern Languages Department. Professor Warde, who has twice travelled to E. Gennany on a college grant, originally went as a student of German literature. Interested in the Go Ahead. Don't Read This By .T.EDKENDR;IS You may be wondering . why my name has not graced the pages of tJ'lis . wonderful newspaper lately. The truth is I have been searching high and low for something important to reveal to you, the reader. After all my research and all the hours I spent trying to dream something up, I found only one fact which could be of any in- terest: I have a.bsolutely nothing to tell you. That's right. There was no reason for me to have thought of even entering the news room on Tuesday evening (except to get some .pizza and soda).. I know that no matter what I say nobody wiUlisten or even care. We both know you're jUSt ·reading this article be~ause you have nothing better to do. You probably didn~t even look at my name. Admit it. You're just using me. . I don't need any pity. I don't want any mercy reading. Just go away. Put the paper down. Come on - I mean it. . I told yon to stop it. Okay. Fine. Be that way. If you're not going to listen to .me, I'm not going to comnmnicate with you. You'll just have to read something else. I'm just devastated. After all this time I now know that it just doesn't matter what I write. But, then, why should you care? You don't have any worries. I have worries.. What kind ()f worries? For one thing, I have to keep writing articles for this paper when I have no idea w:hat . to write about. It's not my fault. It's just that Dave doesn't feel like telling me. Fine. I don't need a reason to write because I know the Features staff is desperate for material. I have otber worries, too. r . . ow n IDOL The subjunctive is not a tense; it is a mood. Usually, when we speak, ·we use the ·~·. '.· indicative· mood. We lise the subjunctive mood for certain r~asons. Still reading? I can't believe you, I mean, this really makes me sick. For instance, where the heck: are my leather gloves? I had to buy a new pair, you kno:w. They're these huge .ski gloves-- the, )tinJi NeU Armstrong W!»uld. . get I. can't even make a good snow ball with them. But, then again, why am I telling you this? You've used me enough today. And I've put in my 401 words. U is now accepting ~ your creative: • poetry • graphics ~ ~ ~ ~ • drawings ~ ~ SUBMIT: writing and description of. a.rt to Box 2526 with your box no · and phone no. DEADLINE: March,.14 J •••••••••• •• • • Yearbook • • • : Meeting : : Tonight : : 7:30 : : 4th Floor : • Carnegie- • }.. . •••••••••• With all the time and trouble I put in to make a quality article- Big Brothers- Big Sisters This is our 3rd annual fund raiser. Every dollar that is raised goes directly to sup- porting the Little Brothers- Little Sisters iu our program. You can bowl individually, you cart form a team to bowl, you can have your team challenge another team. · You can bowl before finals, which would be Celebrity Sunday, March 11, atBoulevard B()wl on Erie Boulevard; or you can bowl after recess, the week of March 25. Just call in to get a sponsor sheet, 374-4530. We look forward to your. continued support of Big Brothers-Big Sisters at Union · College. · The F.reshman Record Committee is ·looking for an able bodies Union College student to co-edit this year's edition of the Class .of '88. Cut out this ad and fill in your name. box:#; and Ci few sentences about why you wou.ld like to co-~dit the Record. (In- clude pas.t experience and skills which yoUI feel will help you ln running the Record.) Name------------------------~----------- Box#.,.. ------------------------- theory of irony, and how it Warde commented, \In West works in literature, he travelled Germany, it seems to have to th17 town of Weimar., a passed. This is in contrast to the repes1tory of all ·German GDR, which is like experiencing literature, culture, and music. / a time warp. One sees things Once there he continued his here which i1lustrate what work en an analysis of Goethe's fascism is aU abo11t. But now, Faust.e. . . . the country wears t.he politi<:al Whtle conbnumg his mask of its opposite-MarxiSt research; Warde .soon became Cemmunism. The two are, in aware of the practical aspects some way ideologically of irony. \One of rny personal similar.\ Th~ Germans have t~eor~es i~ the linkage of ~ony great reason to be·embarrassed w1th tdealism. I soon realiZed, about what they are purporting that East Germany provided a to be against. real life example of this. The One of the goals of com- entire country is an enormous mWlism is to create a classless, monument to an ideal. ~eir non-exploitative .society. As for goal was to create a society the material differences, Warde where no one should exploit commented, ''They have anyone else. Even with our removed the extremes of both colored perspective, we cannot poverty and wealth. The dismiss that the exploitation is government has removed the there,. with a vengeance. It is bottom 15 percent of human ironic that they have created experience but have also the very smne situation they removed the t()p 15-20 percent of had wished to eliminate/' what humans are capable of. ''It is stimulating to go to East What is left is a mediocre Germany. It is an example of middle.\ failed idealism blind to its own \The government denies failure. In addition, the jux:- stratification. 'lbere are only taposition of East and West farmers and workers present. Germany also is an interesting There is however a certain situation. East Germany, more ambiguity in the definition of so than any other \communist exactly what a 'worker' is. In com1try\ represents \state of addition, the East Germans the art\ eommunism, while its utilize the same sort of system neighbor W. Germany is a as the Russians in which in- central focus of western centives are present. There is capitalism.\ room for aspiration and ad- The p()litical system of East vance. Though the ideal is from Germany (also known as the all according to ability to all German Democratic Republic, based on need, the present or GDR) has a unique impact principle is: from all in ability upon its citizens. \Whenever I to all based upon performance. have conv~rsed with E. Ger- Ego definitely gets .gratified.\ m;ms they always are envious The East Germans also of our freedom of speech, yet possess a different perspective, cannot understand how we are in general. \All is matter to able to maintain it. In the GDR, them. They feel they are obliged there are no criminals, per se, to nuture matter- into being its only 'problem •citizens'; the very best. Hence why they have political dissident is considered such a strong, government- to be just as harmful as the supported sports program. For crook. You see, the East Ger- a country of ()nly seventeen mans are bound to a particular million they are a stronghold of political course (Scientific sports excellence. Every child Socialism, in their case). is watched for talent. This Anyone who questions this talent is then groomed and invites punis~ent.\ nutured. Anxone with ability is Effects ofJhis s_ystem affects ooundto oe discovered. Also, The way people deal with each sports provides them with other. \l have been told by an another method of propagan- East German that he had no da.\ friends, only acquaintances. Though the East German There is a fear of opening up to society is more authoritative people. One can never be sure . . and controlled, Warde does not \ see it as a hot bed of unrest. Critics have always been \There are elements of coer- wary of Germany after World cion in everyone's daily Iife War Two. In particular, the which we don't have, yet for the possibility of another in- most part things are calm.\ surgence of Nazism. Professor Delta Phi's Annual Suitcase Party is coming! Tickets to go on smle the beginning of spring term

Page6 CONC'OROIENSI~: Mon·h /, 198J FEATURES Candidate: On the Career Front: Alan Cranston lnterview;ing Fundamentals By JOHN MILLS Sen;:~tor Alan Cranston ()f California is one of eight Democrats running for President. At age 69, he is the oldest Democrat running and he readily admits he does not look 1)r act like your average Presidential candidate. He is i>ald and at 69 he is not nearly as well preserved as Ronald Reagan is at 73. Cranston's campaign stresses two issues, the nuclear freeze and fuil employment. Although he .is considered one of the most liberal candidates, he tries to downplay this. He feels he has broad based support and points to his huge re-election margin in 1980, a Republican year, as f)roof. Cranston's political career started in the 1950's when he served on the California Democratic Council. In 1958 he ran for California state con- troller and won. He served two terms as controller before being swept out of office in 1966 when Ronald Reagan won a land$li(ie victory for governor. Cranston first ran for the U.S. Senate in 1964, but lost in the Democratic Primary. In 1968 he ran again and won. Cranston has risen through the Senate ranks and now serves as minority whip. In his personal life, Cranston has suffered a few personal tragedies. In 1977 his first wife divorced him and in 1980 his eldest son, Robert, died. More recently it was revealed that his second wife, Norma., sUffers from Parkinson's disease. After his poor showing in Iowa, Cranston hopes to do better in New Hampshire. Should he do better, he could emerge as an alternative to Walter Mondale. If not, his campaign could end after the New Hampshire primary. Sources: The New York Times, Friday, December 30, 1983, \Cranston Would Stress Jobs Over Arms Funds,\ .pp. Ai & Al2, Newsweek, 'February 14, 1983, '' .;ranston: Out .of the Blocks,\ pp. 29-30. ByDIANNEPAVACIC Career Assistant The interview is just anotber step of the job hunting process. As With most successful ven- tures, you must adequately P'rep.are and organize. The thirty minutes or so you spend in a job interview can deter- mine your future. Your presentation of your skills, your personal appearance and preparation for the interview will influence the employer's decision about offering you a job. There are five major parts to the interviewing process. The first is the preparation done befo.re the interview. You should know your skills and most important traits, your training, experience and education. R,eviewing your resume will help you remember the accomplishments you want to point out. Do some homework. Learn about the employer. Know the A Change In Course By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor In addition to the usual college based lecture and seminar courses, Union offers a few \field work'' courses in which students engage in out-of- the-classroom work-research. One of these classes is Marine Biology of the Biology Department which has recently undergone some changes in organization. For the past ten or so years that the course has been in existence, students would spend two weeks before the start of the Fall term on an island in Maine. There they would undergo a series of lectures and lab work as well as involvement in several days of individual research. The class had previously spent these two weekS at Appledore Isle, one of the Isles of Shoals in Maine. This year, howevet·, a different locale has been chosen. Professor Carl George, one of the two teachers of the course (Barbara Boyer is the other) explained the reasons for the change of location. \Due to the increases in price and loss of atmosphere at Appledore which were getting in the way, we (he and . Boyer) wanted to pick a *Seniors* Mark the date on your calendar: March 1st (9:30p.m .-close) and start counting! 101 Days · Until Graduation! Celebrate with your senior friends at the Pub with music and drink specials!!! more primitive location. We then came upon Hurricane Island, a 145 acre spruce covered island. It is located approximately twelve miles :out of Rockland, Maine.\ George feels that the new scenery of Hurrican Isle provides a welcome transition. \The island is forested versus Appledore, which was bmsh covered. In addition, there are literally hundreds of nearby islands. The area is truly beautiful, and contains many marine birds and mammals.\ As for the format of the course, it would remain the same but with · a few modifications. \We are keeping the same format but we are also adding a 200 mile cruise along the Maine coast. We are visiting such areas as marine bird nesting sites, salt marshes, and gravel beaches. There are dramatically shifting features of the coastline. The cruise will provide an opportunity to ob- serve the changing phenomena.\ During the time of the voyage, students and faculty will both live out of tents on island stops. The total trip time, weather permitting, is five days. Hurricane Island is actually the site of an Outward Bound school. Their fine facilities and three powercraft also proved to be an attraction to the island. In addition Outward Bound is interested in Union's Marine Biology program. George comments, \Outward Bound stre·sses individual growth through physical-taxing while we have always stressed growth through individual dependence. Outward Bound is interested in possibly modifying their program to one more along our course lines.\ HOne tbing that has always impressed me about the Marine Biology program is that we really work as a group. Interactions among course members provide better methods, in particular with the research project. Each has both a teachirig and learning role. This is in definite contrast to the class system. One must go through 'tough times' and anxiety with the presentation and vrriting of the research paper. Though it is difficult, it is worth it.\ This coining March 6 there will be a general informational meeting on the course to be held in 8301 at 4:45p.m. All who are interested are urged to attend. WRUC PRESENTS: ECAC Division II Finals • Union vs. liT or PlaHsburgh Saturday night at 7:00 WRUC wlll also cover the Dut- chmen if they qualify for the NCAA Playoffs. listeR ·for Details! WRIIC- Where the Heme Team Plays! company's full name, locations, purpose and products. Research and find out any proJ>lems the company may have. Have some questions ready to ask the employer about . the company. Make sure that the question& do not reflect that you did not do .any research on the company. For example, don't ask \What is your com• pany involved in?\ This only shows that you don't know too much about them and the in- terviewer will question your desire to work there. The ti:brary in the Career Development Center cari help you in researching an organi~ation. There are also tists of possible interview questions available in the Center. 'Know what job you're ap- plying for and the skills it requires. An \I'll take any job\ attitude suggests p()or preparation and little self- knowledg~. Know the exact time and location of the job interview. Find out the interviewer's .narne and h9w to pronounce it. Be on time. Bring a reswne, portfolio, sales figures, newspaper ar- ticles-anything that will help you in the interview. Second irl the ,process is the opening. Remember to use the interviewer's name. Don't shake hands unless the in- tendewer offers a hand first. Don't smoke unless invited. Don't chew gum. Wait for t:he interviewer to sit down or offer you a chair before you.sit down. Bring a pen and notebo()k (small enough to fit in a pocket or purse) to write down any information received and to write down reminders te. yo11r five strongest skills, questions, etc. In this way you won't have to worry about forgetting something and regretting it later. · ,__.. Now the interview hegins. This is when you \sell\ your- self. You should also remember that the interviewer interviews a lot; therefore you should be outwardly oriented. Pay at- tention to their concerns and gear your conversation to them. You must control the content ~f the interview. This will help keep their interest and will eliminate boredom .. Vary the tone of your voice and the tempo of your speech. Get the in- terviewer to talk about them· selves .early in the interview. Get them to give you a job specification as soon as possible so you can evaluate it and. discuss how your s!)ills and experiences fit· in. Throughout the interview maintain eye contact but don't stare. Speak clearly and slowly. Sit up comfortably, don't slump. Be aware of what you are doing- are you tapping your pen, moving your hands a lot . ·. . Remember that your goal is to strike a good feeling in the in~ terviewer about you. Think positively .. A 'lack of enthusiasm about yourself and the job will leave a poor impression. Look interested and alert. The main thing to remember about an interview is that you should be prepared to ask and answer many questions. Be ready to talk about your past accomplishments ·and your potential--can you help the company? Know why the er:nployer should hire you;- · Interviewers may ask· surprise questions like, \Where do you want to be in five years? Tell me about Y,Ourself,\ etc .. Be prepared to answer these questions but don't be afraid to ask for clarification. Present yourself as an honest person; do not try to hide anything. ~ever make unfavorable references to past employers. The fourth step is to close the interview. Summarize why you are interested in the position. You may choose to ask, \Are my qualifications and my ex- perience what you are looking for?\ Thank the interviewer and find out when you will be contacted about the job. If you are offered the job during the interview and are unsure about your answer, tell the in- terviewer that you would like to consider the offer and get back to them within a designated time period. Finally, the last step in the interviewing process is the follow-up. The thank you note can be very important. You can fill in gaps-items that you wanted to discuss but didn't. You can highlight the important areas and reiterate your in- terest in the job and the com- pany. The overall key to successful interviewing is taking the time to plan and organize your thoughts; to research the companies and agencies, to be punctual, to dress properly, to use good interpersonal behavior and to evaluate your per-· formance after each session. As with all things, the more we put into it, the more we get out of it! . Sigma Chi Clambake Coming Soon! Tickets Available Spring Term

\ CONCORDIENSJS, March 1. 1984 Pagel Issue of the Issue': Boosting Campu·s Security By JUDI PHILIPSON Satff Question: How do you thinlt we·can make the campus safer? Kerrie Ticknor '87: Tim Meyer '85: \l don't think it's realistic to make it any safer , than the outside world, All that can really be done is to increase awareness.\ Lori Cf)()per '86: \We could have security at the gate to see who is coming in, or a wa}king service for girls at night. Things are bound to happen anyway if there are enough people around; but perhaps the above coUld help to decrease the chances.\ Joe Dimon '87: \Increase the foot patrols ... station guards at Richmond and North for longer periods. Call 6178 and they'll be there in a matter .of minutes.\ Editor's Nl)te: The .office of Campus Security provides an escort service for people who would like it. It is unfortunate that more people are not aware of this service which has been advertised a number of times. Security's number is 6178. · FEATURES Karen Johnson, Mayor of Schenectady . \:At my other school in Boston, they had an escort service. The way it worked is that a group-of kids would be •on call' at all hours. All of the girls would receive a card with phone numbers on.it to use anytime. It really worked out pretty well.\ Margaret Hess '8.6: ''The campus is in definite need of some sort of escort service. Security should be much more available and Adam Emerson '87: \Student volunteers to help escort other students may help the problem. There should be students 'nn·duty' at all times to walk other students home at night.\ A Talk With Schenectady's Mayor younger.\ · Weather Delays Act Saturday night, February 25. What had promised to be a fantastic jazz performance and jam session-workshop fell victim to the sudden change in the weather. All the Union College Arts Club's publicity for ''Kats-n-Jammers, The Amazing Jazz Band from Albany'' would have been true if only the lead singer, Martha, hadn't been caught in the snow down in Cobleskill. :Although a large audience :was already waiting in the Cabaret . room, relaxing to the music of the rest of the band, by the time Martha arrived the number of ~pec­ tators had dwindled to just a few remaining jazz fans and the people who wanted to jam with the band. By the time Kat$-n- J anuners had played a few warm-up tunes, even those jazz fans had given up. The beer and the candlelight atmosphere just weren't enough to keep people waiting so long. The student \jammers\ got their wish as they and the band played together for over two hours but the original audience members (who were long gone at . this point) were disap- pointed. The band members were extremely apologetic and they, too, were disappointed that they had missed the op- portunity to. perform for the Union College audience. The Arts Club had predicted an amazing performance but hadn't predicted the sudden snow. Kats·n-Jammers is a great band but next time the Arts Club will hire them in the spring! By DAVID FITZGERALD Features Editor If someone were to ask you who the Mayor of Schenectady was would you be able to give the correct answer? The answer to the question is Karen Johnson, who just recently won the position from three-term Mayor Frank DueL Karen Johnson is the first woman mayor of Schenectady and the first Democrat to hold the office in a number of years. Karen Johnson does not feel that ·being a woman has. presented a number of dif- ficulties for her in the running of city government. For eight years before being elected Mayor she was involved in city government; she feels that this gave plenty of time for her to be accepted by everyone. HPeople have had the opportllility to get to know me.\ One thing that being Mayor has done is take a great deal of time away from her private life. The office carries with it a number of large responsibilities; it has administrative, political and YEARBOOK PERSONALS Now is your chance. to send that pers~nal you !!I ways wanted to! For one dollar, you .receive one bne (45 characters) in the special personal section of the 1984 yearbook. At the same time, you will ~e contributing to the success of this year's yearbook. Do It today ... so you will always remember tomorrow! -Forms are avallable.at the box office Deadline: March 5, 1984 ht<r clast CJ.,Bnce, t:o 6rJ1 JnocJza Cro.nclt ll.e ;BlacX JtJre.d Cake ~ llt:xe Cheesecckc. :If 7 .. 4 / and a zultole. Zot moref'; Ope h.. fun ~n i Vea-..t.-)O,.JJ. I ~ LJt tk . .JJut~'A Jlollozu ~ J ~===~p,;~~ public relations dimensions, \When you get to be Mayor you turn your life over.\ Johnson says that there is always some function that she has been in• vited to attend and that being Mayor is not just a nine to five job. · Mayor Johnson feels that Union College is a very im- portant asset to Schenectady both educationally and culturally. The college is a great source of pride for the whole community and the recent successes of the football and hockey teams have excited everyone in the area. Union students spend a great deal of money in the businesses in the Schenectady area and Union employs a great number of local residents. Another important function that Union serves the Schenectady community is the sponsoring of many cultural events. Union draws a large number of speakers and en· tertainers that add to the city's cUltural life. Karen Johnson herself is no str.anger to the Union com- munity. She worked for the college for a while on a fund raising campaign in Lamont House. At times Union students have worked in her office and some worked on her campaign for Mayor. She feels that Union students should do more to get to know the community and the people in it better. \There are many nice and interesting people out there that would like to get to know Union· students better.\ Johnson feels that sometimes Union students do not see· Schenectady as they shoUld. \Schenectady should be looked at in a positive light. . . Students should consider the fact that the people of Schenectady have been able to on their own restore Proctor's. Only a city with a strong cultural life could have the largest theater for live performances in New York State outside of New York City.\ When students worked on her campaign she says that they were amazed that Schenectady had nice residential districts. By getting to know the city and the people better Johnson believes Union students will appreciate Schenectady better. One of the major goals of Mayor Johnson's ad- ministration is to create more jobs for the people of Schenectady. \The challenge that'we are facing is to diversify our economy.\ She feels that history of other industrial cities is that smaller industries are needed. Everyone realizes that another large factory like General Electric will not be moving into Schenectady in the ~ near future so smaller in- dustries are the desired target. The problem with this is that the task of creating new jobs has to be done a nwnber of times in- stead of just once for a big business. Another important task is to fill the vacant Two Guy's building. This woUld be an important step toward redevelopment and would provide Union students once again with a place to shop near campus. Mayor Johnson is supporting Walter Mondale for the Democratic nomination for President this year and is also running for a position as one of his delegates. She says that on the people of Schenectady, Ronald Reagan's policies have been very tough. \Not a single new unit of government sup- ported housing has been built in Schenectady for the poor or elderly since Ronald Reagan has been in office.\ Another thing that the Reagan ad- ministration is attempting to do is eliminate the W.I.C. program, which is a program that provides food for ·poor pregnant women and women with small children. Schenectady has 1,500 clients in this program. \Nutrition is a key to life and the Reagan administration is trying to cut support for the people that need it most-pregnant women and small children.\ Johnson feels that there are a number of programs that are important to the people of the city and as Mayor it is her job to fight for them. Mayor Karen Johnson at• tempts to do her job as best she can and to help the residents of the city in whatever capacity that she can. Union students should take better notice of Schenectady and its people because the people of Schenectady trUly appreciate Union College. \The people of Schenectady are very proud of their community and what it can provide.\ 101 Days to Graduation I

Page8 FrnmtlrJ lit I ftrioo Col/~ ltf!'l --~-------- --------~- 'Release from the Office of the Dean of Students Z/27/84: • Four Union College students were injured in an accident early Friday morning, February 24, at the intersedion of Union A venue and Lenox Road. Briaa P. Muldowaey,'20, or Saranac Lake, N.Y. and Nelson Mazzei, 20,. of Caracas, Venezuela, are listed ill critical condition at Ellis Hospital. Timothy HoweU, Zl, of Niskayuna, NY was treated and released from tbe hospital on Saturday. Jobn · Swift, 20, of North Adams, Mass. was treated and released from the • ·hospital on Friday. The accident occurred at 2:20 a.m. when Mazzei was driving north on Lenox Road from Union Avenue and his car apparently struck a traffic island bJ. the road. The car came to rest against a stone wall that surrounds the Parker-Rice estate at the comer of ·Lenox Road. A Question of Supply and Demand Towards the end of every term, Union students are fortunate enough to go through the exciting process of ''preregistration.'' The fun begins when students get their first look at the courses offered for the following term. Choosing the courses you want to take and those you are required to take is easy. Preregistering for these classes, however, is another story altogether. Getting into most liberal lealT'ing and required courses (for particular majors) is the biggest challenge of all. Many of these classes require a card- -something that is in short supply and great demand at Union. Urifortunately, if has become necessary for students to begin waiting on line as early as 3 a.m. in order to be assured a card for many classes. For certain courses those who wait unti15 or 6 a.m. to get on line may be disappointed to learn that because they are at the end of a long waiting list, they might as well have stayed in bed. The card system at Union was probably developed because it was believed to be a fair and objective way to limit the size of classes. In reality, however, card courses have become a frustrating and serious problem for students who are trying to fulfill their course requirements. Normally, when there is excess demand for a product, producers will increase the supply. Un- fortunately, this is not the case at Union. It is hard to believe that at an institution where students are paying over $10,000 a year, they are sometimes forced to take courses which they are not interested in. This predicament is a common occurrence due to the card system. . The card system has been in effect for too many years. The problems which card courses cause have gotten out of control. It is time for a reevaluation of the present system so that alternative methods ca[l be developed. Some departments seem to be aware of the problems with card courses and have begun using one alternative method-lists. Ust courses, while not objective, are a better way to satisfy the desires of both students and faculty. Professors can limit their class size and students don't have to wait on line for hours. In addition, upperclassmen and majors will be given preference. .. Another alternative to this problem is to simply increase either the number of courses offered or to increase the number of times a year very popular classes are given. This may not be possible, however, due to the limited number of professors. If this is the case then there should be a better balance of classes offered over the three semesters. The imbalance is especially obvious during the spring term when many professors teach a reduced courseload or do not teach at all. The point is not that every student should be able· to take every class they want to when they want to. This is not the case at any school. However, it should nQt be as difficult as it now is for students to take their desired and/or required courses. Having to wait on line at 3 a.m. is ridiculous. A reevaluation of the existing card system is necessary so that such problems can be avoided in the future. CorrectionS for the Winter Term ~inal Exam Schedule 'J'UESDAY, MARCH 13 • 9:00-11:00 a.m. Psychology l()....A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 5- Lipton-PY 113 THURSDAY, MARCH 15·2:00-4:00p.!B· English 3D-Autobiography-Gado-HU li6 TIJESDAY,MARCH 13·2:00-4:00p.m. . E.S. 48-Introduction to Semiconductor Devices & Circuits Sec.l-Kump-BH .203 Sec. 2-}fassiD-BH 201 CONCORDIENSIS, March I, 1984 ~LETTERS Whale- Vertebra Missing To the Editor: Please help· us get our whale vertebra (back bone) back! It · was taken by two male students from the vicinity of the south- we~tern door of the Center for · · Science . and Engineering last week. They were observed in the process by members of the staff and when asked where they were going with the bone they explained that they were.- aid. Arty guidance from any· doing a 'project.' Hopefully, the , member of the community. will tw() are now finished With their be greately appre.ciated. The project and will return the next step, hopefUlly quite un- object for the edification of necess;:try, is to sit down with students in one of our 'biology· the physical plant staff and to courses~ The bone smeUStQ high look for the likenesses of the heaven and will not be a culprits! pleasant companion for anyone · or a 11seful item of decor. Tile odor might also help others to help as find our lost teaching CarlGeorge Prof. of Biology Editorial Comments. Questioned . To the Editor: While I would first like to commend Concordiensis far its prompt discussion of the recent attack that took place on campus, I would also like to question some af the editf ~•s comments in the editorial l.11at was concerned with this matter. I feel that the criticism of the Security Department's student workers was done in a way that illustrated a lack of knowledge of the Student Security program. As a result of this, the criticisms were both inaccurate and inappropriate. First, from a purely technical point of view, I find it hard to follow the logic that lead to the criticism of Student Security workers. There is no mention, either in the article or the editorial concerning the attack; . of any involvement by Student Security workers. Then, without any apparent reasoning, Student Security workers were criticized. If the reader had been informed that student workers were in some way involved with this recent attack, Pathetic Situation To the Editor: First uf all I would like to thank the management of the Rathskellar for offering to the college commWlity a night flf entertainment on Saturday, Feb. 18. I was there and enjoyed the music and overall at- moSphere. Unfortunately my . evening was marred by the actions of a small group of obnoxious people. I and my companion were hit with: a piece of wood about five inches long (apparently from a Skellar table), a pen, and a bottlecap- all of this being completely Wlprovoked. In addition, my Strohs cap, which I had been given by the band earlier in the evening, was taken from my · head and returned (i.e. thrown) to me in mutilated condition. (Hysterical isn't it?) While I applaud the Skellar for their · attempt to bring a pleasant diversion to the campus, I am disgusted that there is a minority of people here Who · cannot have a good time without being destructive; puerile cretins. A Disgruntled Customer then I could Wlder.stand your criticisms. As it stands, however, the criticism arrives from somewhere out of deep left field. Next, let me. turn to the content of the criticisms. Student Security is criticized for \'Hanging out' when they are supposed to be working.'' Altbottgh student workers participate .in four different shifts, I can only assume that ypu are referring to the student foot patrol. This is hard to understand, as it is the job of students who are on foot. patrol . to be on campus and visible. It is hard- to be on ·campus and to be visible without giving the appearance of \hanging out.\ Surely you are not suggesting that the student workers mar(!b around campus for the entiFe durati()n of their three and a half h()ur shift. Just look at a police foot patrol in Schenec- tady, or anywhere else for that matter. What does a policeman do on foot patrol? The policem.an walks around, talks to people, and attempts to be visible. The idea of a foot patrol is to let potential criminals know that someone is around and watching, and to let everyone else know where to look for help, when and if they need it. I do not mean to imply that every Student Security worker Hockey Congratulated To the Editor; By the time that this edition of Concordy hits the campus, we will all know whether the Union Skating Dutchmen have earned a spot in the Ecac Division II Continued on page 9 performs tqeir job with com- plete . diligence and devotion. Indeed, as a former Student Manager of Security, I am fully aware of the problems that exist with the Student Security program. However, I would like · to suggest that some of these problems could be ironed out with the assistance of the college community. This means not laughing at the . highly visible orange vests that are worn by the student workers, not directing derogatory comments towards them and· above all else, cooperating with them. It should go without .saying that when people are shown ~nsideration and ap- preciation, they try all the more harder. · · My last point is that, instead' of pointing the finger of criticism, Conc41rdlensfs should work towards achieving a better situation. For example, Concordiensis should begin to report the positive aspects concerning Student Security. Indeed,. how many people are aware that over Thanksgiving, a ·student worker helped to apprehend two armed burglars. Isn't it just amazing what student workers can do while they are \hanging out, ! Sincerely, David L. Silversmith Class of 1984 - - - - 1 Co w~ R~ ta~ SUJ ret loll ph ye; -yel Du tea wa wh pof l un< wh .an

Poge8 <ILDnr.orbirnsis FounJN/ at limon Coll~e 18 77 ------------ ------~--- \Release from the Office of the Dean of Students 2/27/84: Four Union College students were injured in an accident early Friday morning, February 24, at the intersection of Union A venue and Lenox Road. Brian P. Muldowney, 20, or Saranac Lake, N.Y. and Nelson Mazzei, 20, of Caracas, Venezuela, are Usted in critical condition at Ellis Hospital. Timothy Howell, 21, of Niskayuna, NY was treated and released from the hospital on Saturday. John Swift, 20, of North Adams, Mass. was treated and released from the hospital on Friday. The accident occurred at 2:20 a.m. when Mazzei was driving north on Lenox Road from Union A venue and his car apparently struck a traffic island in the road. The car came to rest against a stone wall that surrounds the Parker-Rice estate at the corner of Lenox Road. A Question of Supply and Demand Towards the end of every term, Union students are fortunate enough to go through the exciting process of \preregistration.\ The fun begins when students get their first look at the courses offered for the following term. Choosing the courses you want to take and those you are required to take is easy. Preregistering for these classes, however, is another story altogether. Getting into most liberal leaiT'ing and required courses (for particular majors) is the biggest challenge of all. Many of these classes require a card- -something that is in short supply and great demand at Union. Unfortunately, it has become necessary for students to begin waiting on line as early as 3 a.m. in order to be assured a card for many classes. For certain courses those who wait until5 or 6 a.m. to get on line may be disappointed to learn that because they are at the end of a long waiting list, they might as well have stayed in bed. The card system at Union was probably developed because it was believed to be a fair and objective way to limit the size of classes. In reality, however, card courses have become a frustrating and serious problem for students who are trying to fulfill their course requirements. Normally, when there is excess demand for a product, producers will increase the supply. Un- fortunately, this is not the case at Union. It is hard to believe that at an institution where students are paying over$10,000 a year, they are sometimes forced to take coi.U'ses which they are not interested in. This predicament is a common occurrence due to the card system. The card system has been in effect for too many years. The problems which card courses cause have gotten out of control. It is time for a reevaluation of the present system so that alternative methods can be developed. Some departments seem to be aware of the probl~ms with card courses and have begun using one alternative method-lists. List courses, while not objective, are a better way to satisfy the desires of both students and faculty. Professors can limit their class size and students don't have to wait on line for hours. In addition, upperclassmen and majors will be given preference. Another alternative to this problem is to simply increase either the nwnber of courses offered or to increase the number of times a year very popular classes are given. This may not be possible, however, due to the limited number of professors. If this is the case then there should be a better balance of classes offered over the three semesters. The imbalance is especially obvious during the spring term when many professors teach a reduced courseload or do not teach at all. The point is not that every student should be able to take every class they want to when they want to. This is not the case at any school. However, it should not be as difficult as it now is for students to take their desired and/or required courses. Having to wait on line at 3 a.m. is ridiculous. A reevaluation of the existing card system is necessary so that such problems can be avoided in the future. Corrections for the Winter Term Final Exam Schedule TUESDAY, MARCH 13 • 9:00-11:00 a.m. Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 5- Lipton-PY 113 THURSDAY, MARCH 15 • 2:00-4:00 p.m. English 30-Autobiography-Gado-HU 116 TUESDAY, MARCH 13 ·2:00-4:00p.m. E.S. 48-Introduction to Semiconductor Devices & Circuits Sec. 1-Kump-BH 203 Sec. 2-Has.siD-BH 201 CONCONDIENS/S, March /, 1984 ~LETTERS Whale Vertebra Missing To the Editor: Please help us get our whale vertebra (back bone) back! It was taken by two male students from the vicinity of the south- western door of the Center for Science and Engineering last week. They were observed in the process by members of the staff and when asked where they were going with the bone they explained that they were .. doing a 'project.' Hopefully, the two are now finished with their project and will return the object for the edification of students in one of our biology courses. The bone smells to high heaven and will not be a pleasant companion for anyone or a useful item of decor. The odor might also help others to help us find our lost teaching aid. Any guidance from any member of the community will be greately appreciated. The next step, hopefully quite lin· necessary, is to sit down with the physical plant staff and to look for the likenesses of the culprits! Carl George Prof. of Biology Editorial Comments ·Questioned To the Editor: While I would first like to commend Concordiensis for its prompt discussion of the recent attack that took place on campus, I would also like to question some of the editor's comments in the editorial that was concerned with this matter. I feel that the criticism of the Security Department's student workers was done in a way that illustrated a lack of knowledge of the Student Security program.. As a result of this, the criticisms were both inaccurate and inappropriate. First, from a purely technical point of view, I find it hard to follow the logic that lead to the criticism of Student Security workers. There is no mention, either in the article or the editorial concerning the attack, of any involvement by Student Security workers. Then, without any apparent reasoning, Student Security workers were criticized. If the reader had been informed that student workers were in some way involved with this recent attack, Pathetic Situation To the Editor: First of all I would like to thank the management of the Rathskellar for offering to the college community a night of entertainment on Saturday, Feb. 18. I was there and enjoyed the music and overall at- mosphere. Unfortunately my evening was marred by the actions of a small group of obnoxious people. I and my companion were hit with: a piece of wood about five inches long {apparently from a Skellar table), a pen, and a bottlecap- all of this being completely unprovoked. In addition, my Strohs cap, which I had been given by the band earlier in the evening, was taken from rny head and returned (i.e. thrown) to me in mutilated condition. (Hysterical isn't it?) While I applaud the Skellar for their attempt to bring a pleasant diversion to the campus, I am disgusted that there is a minority of people here who cannot have a good time without being destructive, puerile cretins. A Disgruntled Customer then I could understand your criticisms. As it stands, however, the criticism arrives from somewhere out of deep left field. Next, let me turn to the content of the criticisms. Student Security is criticized for \'Hanging out' when they are supposed to be working.\ Although student workers participate in four different shifts, I can only assume that you are referring to the student foot patrol. This is hard to understand, as it is the job of students who are on foot patrol to be on campus and visible. It is hard. to be on campus and to be visible without giving the appearance of \hanging out.\ Surely you are not suggesting that the student workers march around campus for the entire duration of their three and a half hour shift. Just look at a police foot patrol in Schenec- tady, or anywhere else for that matter. What does a policeman do on foot patrol? The policeman walks around, talks to people, and attempts to be visible. The idea of a foot patrol is to let potential criminals know that someone is around and watching, and to let everyone else know where to look for help, when and if they need it. I do not mean to imply that every Student Security worker Hockey Congratulated· To the Editor: By the time that this edition of Concordy hits the campus, we will all know whether the Union Skating Dutclunen have earned a spot in the Ecac Division II Continued on page 9 performs their job with com- plete diligence and devotion. Indeed, as a former Student Manager of Security, I am fully aware of the problems that exist with the Student Security program. However, I would like to suggest that some of these problems could be ironed out with the assistance of the college community. This means not laughing at the highly visible orange vests that are worn by the student workers, not directing derogatory comments towards them and above all else, cooperating with them. It should go without saying that when people are shown consideration and ap- preciation, they try all the more harder. My last point is that, instead of pointing the finger of criticism, Concordiensis should work towards achieving a better situation. For example, Concordiensis should begin to report the positive aspects concerning Student Security. Indeed, how many people are aware that over Thanksgiving, a student worker helped to apprehend two armed burglars. Isn't it just amazing what student workers can do while they are \hanging out\! Sincerely, David L. Silversmith Class of 1984 I 1 I I I I I - - 1 C«~ Wt RE tal su rel lor pl; ye; ye; Du te~ WCl wh po: 1. Unl wh an

CONCORIJIENSIS, Morch I, 1984 Page9 . COMMENTARIES Letters ..• Contfuuedftom page 8 Western Region Finals. Regar.dless of whether this takes place, one thing is for sure.·-winning· hockey has returned to ·union. It~s be(m a long time since Union .has had a playoff hockey team--seven years, in fact. However, this Charlie Morri.$on. Mor:r:isbn has had some talented teams in the last sixyears but it is this year~s editionof the Skating Dutchmen that hStS qualified for the playoffs. You don't have to look any fWlther back than saturday night at Achilles, to realiZe that winning hockey is back at Achilles. Not only wfuning, but .doing it ina legitimate way. For that Charlie Morrison,. ShaWl Teevens and the entire '''organization\ should be congratulated. News From The Capital -year's edition of the Skating Dutchmen is different from that team 7 years ago. That team was coached by N.ed Harkness, who· wanted to win . . . in any possible way. Unfortunately, Ned was unable to win in a legal way and when he left, the program was , an absolute disaster. Enter Eric J. Hornick '86 Skating Dutc.tnnen · Hockey Network It's Not Over Yet . .• An organizationa·l meeting will be held for aH women interested in starting a ... FOURTH SORORITY Tuesday, March 6 7:30p.m. 4th Floor Carnegie A discussion will be held concerning the possibility of a Fourth Sorority without housing. Attendance is ext·remely important. If interested but unable to attend, please contact: Shari or Nora at X6546 Navy Gold: By JACK ANDERSON and JOESPEAR. WASHINGTON-President Reagan's political stragegists are convinced that Walter Mondale will be the Democratic standard~bearer this November and are already mapping .plans to beat him. But privately, the president's advisers are more worried about a man who won't be on anybody's ticket. He is .Paul Volcker, the 6-foot- 7·incll chairman of the F'ederal Reserve Board. Republicans are afraid that Volcker's stubborn refusal to loosen up on the nation's money supply will 1 bring a sharp rtse in interest rates over the next few months. This would be bad news for American consumers, especially those who want to buy homes or other big-ticket items. It would also be tough on business~ Without money to borrow at affordable rates, consumers and businessmen will ·stop buying, and the economic recoverywill come to a shuddering halt. When the economy goes sour, of course, the voters take it out on the party in power. In both 1976 and 1980, interest rates went up sharply. And on both occasions, the party in power lo$ the White House. So the president's political advisers want Volcker to loosen up on the money supply. That would hold interest rates down and keep the recovery going. And it wouldn't lead to runaway inflation-at least not until after Election Day. We've seen an internal memo that has been circulating in the White House on this very subject. It predicts that the Federal Reserve Board will start pumping up the money Forged in a Tradition of Excellen,ce - Because the Officers wearing it are the best in the world at what they do . . . they have to be . It takes a special breed of aviator to meet the challenges of Naval Aviation. Strong, dedicated and professional men who can control the world's most sophisticated aircraft. There's no room over the oceans for pilots that are second-best. Beneath the surface pulses a unique environment few will ever challenge. Only an uncompromised standard of excellence earns a submariner l')is dolphins. The Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officers wear them. To find out if you're qualified, see the Navy Represen- tative that will be in the Campus Center on March 29., or call collect(S18) 472·4424 N:avy Officers Get Responsibility Fast. supply at the first sign of a new recession this year. .But the memo offers this blunt warning:. \The li'ed may wait too lo~g before acting to help us politically. Even if it wer;e to reverse policy im- mediate.y, we will still see a significant slowing of economic growth in the second and third quarters of the year.\ That is why Reagan's re- election strategists are worried about Paul Volcker, the man who is not running for anythil)g. lf the economy shows signs of going into a tailspin this sum- mer, the Democrats will get back an issue the Republicans -' thougbt they had sewed up. Beleagured Boat People: Since the fall of Vietnam to the communists a decade ago, desperate refugees have risked their lives trying to reach freedom by .boat across the Gulf of Siam. They have become known as the \boat people,'' and the worst danger they face is from pirates who overtake their frail vessels and murder, rape and rob them. At first, the United States did nothing to protect the refugees. But in receQt years, it has given millions of dollars to the government of Thailand to battle the merciless pirates. Now we have evidence that some Thai authorities have been as merciless as the pirates .. on several recent occasions, boatloads of helpless refugees have reached what they thought was safety in Thailand, but the Thai authorities have heartlessly ordered them towed back out to sea and coast adrift. Thai officials deny the charges, but we have cables from the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok which give the in- criminating details. Just last December, for example, a boatload of 29 refugees landed · in Thailand. After two days' detention, they were towed out to sea by a Royal Thai navy patrol boat. The motor on the refugees' boat conked .out.- -and they drifted helplessly for 14 days. Twice they were attacked by pirate!:!, who · abducted six women. Two small children died of exposure and dehydration. Another tragedy . involved a boatload of 72 Vietname$e refugees. They fled their homeland on New Year's day and reached Thailand tlu'ee days later. Thirty-three of them were put aboard a small boat and towed out to sea. All made it safely to Malaysia. But the remaining·39 refugees were not so lucky. They were also towed out to sea, but their boat capsized and 23 drowned. The 16 who managed to swim ashore were rounded up by police, loaded onto another small boat, and towed back to sea. . Women's Wire: The political r.undits will be talking about the 'gender gap\ this year. That's the difference between the percentage of women who support -Ronald Reagan and the percentage of men who do. But the president's private pollster is not worried. His surveys show that if the election were held· today, Reagan would get more· women's votes than Walter Mondale. The pollster also compares the gender gap to a pair of scissors. The smaller blade is the women's vote, the' larger the men's vote. The two blades together will cut it, he says. -Agent Orange is the deadly herbicide the United States sprayed on Vietnamese jungles to clear the foliage. After years of pressure, the Veterans Administration agreed to study the effects of Agent Orange on soldiers exposed to it. But only male veterans have been studied. Many of the· women who served in Vietnam were also assigned to areas that were sprayed with the herbicide, which may cause miscarriages, stillbirths and birth defects. Finally, at the urging of Congress, the Veterans Administration will give women vets equal study at the federal Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta. Copyright, 1984 United Feature Syndicate, Inc. . SOME·:·COURSE·S·· ·iMPROVE .. SCORES~ r· . .., •. \E. .. ··M'·· ·~R' ... o·· ·'(•: ..... , ..... , ... ' ,. .,. ·\'·! . ,.I. ..,. . ·. , .~.E.; ..... :... ' .. :. ~ , STUDE·NTS. . . ' . . . . ' ~ . . . : . . ~ ..... : .. ' . ·=· .... -~- .... ; . ··········:········ ···>·····:· . :-··\··: BUILD YOUR SKILLS ; ·: ro· BOOST YOUR SCORE! PREPARE FOR: ·. : LSAT LIVE CLASSES ·······: ·······:· : :· . '~ ..... 7 ;- ; . • TEST-N-TAPE® LIBRARY • REINFORCEMENT TEST ::· ·········· • HOMESTUDY PACKET ;i ~ ~ CLASSES STARTING , ..... + ~ . ···r···r~t.~.:i ~:~.::,~:c 1 h.: lr···r····j]••·t···· · .. ;catr ~yS.; E~eninus ·•:w~eten~~ Executive Park Dr. · Stuyvesant Plaza Albany 12203 ., 489-00'{7 .... , ....... , I!I'Sfs·l·s1)fc£-;1~aa····

. ' ' ! CONCORDIENSJS, March I, 1984 Poge 9 COMMENTARIES Letters ..• Continued from page 8 Western Region Finals. Regardless of whether this takes place, one thing is fc:~r sure--winning hockey has returned to Union. It's been a long time since Union has had a playoff hockey team--seven years, in fact. However, this year's edition of the Skating Dutchmen is different from that team 7 years ago. That team was coached by Ned Harkness, who wanted to win . . . in any possible way. Charlie Morrison. Morrisbn has had some talented teams in the last six years but it is this year's edition of the Skating Dutchmen that has qualified for the playoffs. You don't have to look any further back than Saturday night at Achilles, to realize that winning hockey is back at Achilles. Not only winning, but doing it in a legitimate way. For that Charlie Morrison, Shaun Teevens and the entire \organization\ should be congratulated. News From The Capital Unfortunately, Ned was unable to win in a legal way and when he left, the program was an absolute disaster. Enter Eric J. Hornick '86 Skating Dutchmen Hockey Network It's Not Over Yet .•• An organizational meeting will be held for all women interested in starting a ... FOURTH SORORITY Tuesday, March 6 7:30p.m. 4th Floor Carnegie A discussion will be held concerning the possibility of a Fourth Sorority without housing. Attendance is extremely important. If interested hut unable to attend, please contact: Shari or Nora at X6546 Navy Gold: By JACK ANDERSON and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON-President Reagan's political stragegists are convinced that Walter Mondaie will be the Democratic standard-bearer this November and are already mapping plans to beat him. But privately, the president's advisers are more worried about a man who won't be on anybody' s ticket. He is Paul Volcker, the 6~foot- 7-inch chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. Republicans are afraid that Volcker's stubborn refusal to loosen up on the nation's money supply will bring a sharp rise in interest rates over the next few months. This would be bad news for American consumers, especially those who want to buy homes or other big-ticket items. It would also be tough on business. Without money to borrow at affordable rates, consumers and businessmen will stop buying, and the economic recovery will come to a shuddering halt. When the economy goes sour, of course, the voters take it out on the party in power. In both 1976 and 1980, interest rates went up sharply. And on both occasions, the party in power lost the White House. So the president's political advisers want Volcker to loosen up on the money supply. That would hold interest rates down and keep the recovery going. And it wouldn't lead to runaway inflation-at least not until after Election Day. We've seen an internal memo that has been circulating in the White House on this very subject. It predicts that the Federal Reserve Board will start pumping up the money Forged in a Tradition of Excellence Because the Officers wearing it are the best in the world at what they do ... they have to be It takes a special breed of aviator to meet the challenges of Naval Aviation. Strong. dedicated and professional men who can control the world's most sophisticated aircraft. There's no room over the oceans for pilots that are second-best. Beneath the surface pulses a unique environment few will ever challenge. Only an uncompromised standard of excellence earns a submariner his dolphins. The Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officers wear them. To find out if you're qualified. see the Navy Represen- tative that will be in the Campus Center on March 29, or call collect (518) 472-4424 Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast. supply at the first sign of a new recession this year. But the memo offers this blunt warning: \The Fed may wait too long before acting to help us politically. Even if it were to reverse policy im- mediately, we wUI still see a significant slowing of economic growth in the second and third quarters of the year.\ That is why Reagan's re- election strategists are worried about Paul Volcker, the man who is not running for anything. If the economy shows signs of going into a taHspin this sum- mer, the Democrats will get back an issue the Republicans thought they had sewed up. Beleagured Boat People: Since the fall of Vietnam to the communists a decade ago, desperate refugees have risked their lives trying to reach freedom by boat across the Gulf of Siam. They have become known as the \boat people,\ and the worst danger they face is from pirates who overtake their frail vessels and murder, rape and rob them. At first, the United States did nothing to protect the refugees. But in recent years, it has given milli<ms of dollars to the government of Thailand to battle the merciless pirates. Now we have evidence that some Thai authorities have been as merciless as the pirates. On several recent occasions, boatloads of helpless refugees have reached what they thought was safety in Thailand, but the Thai authorities have heartlessly ordered them towed back out to sea and coast adrift. Thai officials deny the charges, but we have cables from the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok which give the in- criminating details. Just last December, for example, a boatload of 29 refugees landed in Thailand. After two days' detention, they were towed out to sea by a Royal Thai navy patrol boat. The motor on the refugees' boat conked out, and they drifted helplessly for 14 days. Twice they were attacked by pirates, who abducted six women. Two small children died of exposure and dehydration. Another tragedy involved a boatload of 72 Vietname$e refugees. They fled their homeland on New Year's day and reached Thailand three days later. 'Thirty-three of them were put aboard a small boat and towed out to sea. All made it safely to Malaysia. But the remaining 39 refugees were not so lucky. They were also towed out to sea, but their boat capsized and 23 drowned. The 16 who managed to swim ashore were rounded up by police, loaded onto another small boat, and towed back to sea. . Women's Wire: The political pundits will be talking about the \gender gap\ this year. That's the difference between the percentage of women who support ·RoRald Reagan and the percentage of men who do. But the president's private pollster is not worried. His surveys show that if the election were held today, Reagan would get more women's votes than Walter Mondale. The pollster also compares the gender gap to a pair of scissors. The smaller blade is the women's vote, the larger the men's vote. The two blades together will cut it, he says. -Agent Orange is the deadly herbicide the United States sprayed on Vietnamese jungles to clear the foliage. After years of pressure, the Veterans Administration agreed to study the effects of Agent Orange on soldiers exposed to it. But only male veterans have been studied. Many of the· W()men who served in Vietnam were also assigned to areas that were sprayed with the herbicide, which may cause miscarriages, stillbirths and birth defects. Finally, at the urging of Congress. the Veterans Administration will give women vets equal study at the federal Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta. Copyright, 1984 United Feature Syndicate, Inc. ·-- -.- -. - - - -- SOME COURSES ··IMPROVE· SCORES- .. WE]M.PROVE:: .. : ... : ... '. . . STUDE·NTS,:TqO! . ·:· ···: . ···=·· BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! PREPARE FOR: LSAI LIVE CLASSES • TEST-N- TAPE® LIBRARY • REINFORCEMENT TEST • HOMESTUDY PACKET CLASSES STARTING At Union on March 31 ·-·.······:······:·····:·····:·· Stuyvesant Plaza Albany 12203 . . 489-oop '\'TESt PR·EPA~ATtON SPECIA:I!ISts: st:tice 1938 . . . : : . . . . .

Page 10 THE ARTS -. . Performing on more than 70 instruments from around the world, Do'a-World Music Ensemble will invite the atJ.dience to an extraordinary ex::.perience in music. Presen- ting original co:r;npositions on flutes, guitars, piano, per:. cu.ssi<Jn and many unique in,.. struments from India, Africa, Asia and the· Americas, they will be in concert this Friday, March 2nd at the Coffehouse. Tl:le Washington Post states, \tbe musicians of Do'a, don't just doable on instruments, they multiply them into a veritable sy:rnphony. '' While . the Boston Globe acclaims their music as, ''powerfully, optimistic com- p()sitionsdelivered with striking originality.\ 'This group was founded in 1974 by Randy Armstrong and Ken J..~aRoche. They blend the rich and varied musical heritage of the world into an unusual and artistic cross- cll.ltural experience .. Their ·fascinating and compelling music bridges jazz, classical, folk and world music in- fluences. Ren LaRoche, who performs Oil concert and alto flute, piano, synthesizer, soprano saxophone, North Indian hansri flutes, South American pan- pipes, South African kalmba a11.d mbira, and various per- CllSsion instruments. Japan, China. South America, South Africa, and West Africa. They chose their name. from the Arabic-Persian language. Do' a signifies a call to prayer and meditation. . Tickets are available at the Student Activities Box Office for $1.50. Please join us at 8:30 for a performance which is not to be missed. The rnusic of Do'a- World Music ·Ensemble will appeal to many people with varied musical tastes. . CONCORDJENSIS, Mard J, 1984 .. ( .... I· · .. : ·.·I~·... .- . . .. Sports Source r I : J WRUC · · 1., • ' ; . 89.7 fM. SIE·IU:O By WRUC staff It is both hard work and a lot of fun. That is the thought I came away With after stopping to talk with WRUC's Sports Director Eric ·:Hornick, outside of the .Union College Fteld House. He had set up three sports broadcasts that week, ... and on the days that he wasn't actually over the air an- nouncing, he had spent a number of hours compiling statistics and questtons for .the pre-game show \Coach's Corner.\ In addition, if you were to put on top of that, the time, effort, and energy it took to line up the area sponsors <which allows the WRUC sports team to travel to· the· g~mes played away from Union) then you have quite an effort that is put behind the production of · WRUC's sports. Yet, it is not glory or . attention that people like Eric Hornick, Scott Wykoff, 'or John Donnelly want; .they take time out from their -schedules because they are true sports fans. There is a tremendous amount of work, but they voice no regrets; their work brings them up close to the fun and excitement of the game. Perhap~, most of the fttn comes when the game is over, wnen the WRUG sports team does what sports fans do best; - talk about the game. That is what WRUC's Sportsline is all about. Every Wednesday nigbt at 11:00 p.m., the news room is packed with Union College's resident sports experts, and they talk, argue, and deliberate with callers from the campus community. Beiltg a real novice when it comes to .sports, I find· Spor:t;sline both an entertaining and informative show. A regular listener reconnted to me the other day that only Boxing comes clo$e to the hard• hitting punches thrown in a Biegen·Mt. Redskins debate, and far be it for me to disagree. with something so well put and so accurate. To describe what WRUC sports is for those who produce it, as well as for those who hear it ove:r the air, I have to resort to analogy. It seems that the men· up in the press box are not much different fi-om. those down on the playing field; they work very long hours in preparation for each game, they are striving hard for that element of professionalism; and it is all because they love the contest and the game. Both a service and a sensational time, WRUC sports is an importaat part of our pro~ramming. Randy Armstrong performs oil ac<lustic and classical guitar, as well as instruments from \Randy Armstrong and Ken LaRoche of Do'a don't just double on instruments; they mu.ltiply them into a veritable symphony.\ Get Active with ''Let's Active'' :By MARSHA DANZIG <Jn March 29, 1984, a great event will take place at Union College. Echo and The Bnn- nymen will be appearing live, ollstage. The opening act will be a band called Let's Active. Contrary to any rumors, they will also be appearing live, Oilstage. Let's .Active consists of three members: Mitch Easter, Faye Hunter, and Sara Rom- weber. (Mitch Easter is known for his phenomenal recording and production work.) Let's Active describe themselves as famous, and they \hail\ from North Carolina, the music capitol of America. They made their debut in 1981 as opening act for R.E.M., the band voted \best new band\ this yeat· by Rolling Stone magazine. Their favorite nwnber seems to be thirteen, which is something to remember, although such a fact may appear to be in- consequential. Two records have been released by Let's Active, on the LR.8'. label, the first of which, Affot, I have had the privilege of listening to. It's great to put on a record and be surprised to hear a familiar, :Concert Committee presents ••• well-liked S<lng, formerly not knowing who the artist was. Such was the case when \Every Word Means No\ beganto blast through my speakers. Let's. Active has a pop• oriented sound, which I think ' will put the March 29 audience at ease. For those who like fun dance music, this band will be well-appreciated. Having a great band like Let's Active as the opening act for Echo and The Bunnymen will only make the concert of March 29 a quality show. So make sure you're there! Echoings in the Gym ByBERNARDOJ.MORA Echo and the Bunnymen will be appearing with Let's Active at Alumni Gym on March 29 on a tour that has taken them through California, the Mid· west, and Canada. Although the Bwmymen hail from Liverpool, England, their sound has its origins on both sides of the Atlantic. [n 1980, the Bunnymen and andher band, The Teardrop Ex:::plodes, were at the forefront of the so-called psychedelic revival in the U.K. Vocalist and guitarist Ian McCtilloch left ie.ardrop to expand on this revived music, which was partially based upon post- :Beatles pop and late 1960's .experimentation of American \West Coast bands such as the ])()<>rs. However, another part (){ this music was the post-1976 \'punk 11 spirit of renewed in- tensity, simplicity, and dirEction. Eoh() and the Bunnymen have lleen together for about five years and have done . 'three al!)urns. Their debut albt.tm, Crocodiles (Sire, 1980), received the highest rating from The New Rolling Stone Record Guide, which described the album as one of \ ... strong songwriting and excellent playing.'' Their next . two albums, Heaven Up Here (1981) and Poreupine ( 1983), also received eritical praise. Recently, Sire Records released a five-track E.P. which contains some of the best songs by the Bunnymen: \Never Stop,\ \The Cutter,\ and \Back of Love\ are in- cluded here. Also included is a version of the song \Do It Clean,\ recorded live at Royal Albert Hall in London in mid- 1983, which contrasts the Bunnymen's approach with their approach in the studio . Tim Sommer of the Village Voice wrote: ''(The Bunnymen onstage is) where you see the punk descent; hard rhythm section, Will Sergeant's wild, needling guitar, (McCulloch's) holler ... '' (Village Voice, Feb. 21, 1984). The Bunnymen have been expanding their SoWld with lush arrangements, as on their new single, \The Killing Moon\ (Korova-Warner Bros.) \The ; Killing Moon\ features strings and brass as well as acoustic and electric .guitars. Ian McCUlloch sings in a sensitive, almost sullen baritone that recalls Jim Morrison. In sh<lrt, Echo and the Bun- nymen are a unique and in- teresting band. Echo and the Bunnymen are Ian McCulloch (vocals and rhythm guitar), Will Sergeant (lead guitar}, Les Patterson (bass), and Pete DeFreitas (drums). Parent's Weekend May 4-6 Tell your parents to make·reservations now! Let's Active in concert March 29. ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE GRADUATE STUDIES PROGRAM The Albany Medical College Graduate Studies Program is designed for qualified students motivated toward teaching and i12vestigative careers in the basic sciences. The Program provides the stude12t with a solid back- ground in all.aspects of modern scientific study with advanced instruc- tion in the student's area of specialization leading to a degree of Doctor of Philosophy or Master .of Science. Requirements Applicants must have a Bachelor's Degree from an accredited college or university and should have taken courses in general and organic chemis- try, general biology and physics. Students applying for admission in the Graduate Studies Program are required to take the Graduate Record Examination prepared and administered by the Educational Testing Service, Box 592, Princeton,-New Jersey 08540. Fields Of Study._---c:--:::-\---:-:--:-----:-::----;-. . Anatomy, Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, Pathology, Pharmacology and Toxicology, Physiology. Financial Aid A limited number of full tuition scholarships and stipends based on teaching assistantships and research assistantships are available. Other financial assistance can be arranged through the department to which the student applies and through the Medical College Office of Financial Aid. Located in Albany, Nf?W York, The Albany Medical College was founded· in 1839. In 1873, Albany Medical College united with Union College, the Albany Lcrw School; the Albany College of Phannacy, and the Dudley · Observatory, to form Union University. Since 1971, the Albany Medical College has also been affiliated with .the Hudson~Mohctwk Consortium of . Colleges and Universities. For additional information contact: . . . Office of Graduate Studies and ReSearch, Albany Medical College of Union University, 47 New Scotland Avenue, Albany. New York 12208, (518) 445-5253 - , l Wi th~ Pr Ur is ch lm of in· dil thl tet su l Sh pr di tr~ in1 le~ vic W< of in• ac ml hi: Ih~ fa1 Ur ol< pll wl HE su de un gr ml ev thl de dil pe TI re, on ab is tal B~: thl H; Ac H~ en ch

To. ,Be or Not To Be By TODD DIMMICK Staff Hamlet~ a , da~ic play by William Shakespeare, opened at the Nott .last Friday evening. Presented by Mountebanks, the Union Theatrical Company~ this is probably one of their most challenging undertakings in a long while. With a combination of language, understanding, interpretation and stage direction, Mountebanks hashad their work cut out for them this term. Overall they were very successful. Haml'et, the longest of Shakespeare's plays, is probably also one of his most di.fficult. A combination of tragedy and comedy, it can be interpreted on many different levels, from simple action and violence . to 1 the deep inner workings of the mind. To think of Hamlet ,today brings to mind indecision and unwillingness to act. Hamlet is Prince of Den- mark. His father had died and his uncle has married his mother. Throughtheghost of his father, Hamlet learns that his Uncle Claudius had. murdered old· Hamlet. For the rest of the play we see Hamlet deciding whether or not to kill Claudius. He keeps tryjng to find out for sure if Claudius had done the deed, but he is never certain until the end. A univetsity graduate with a little 'hit too much thought, Hamlet weighs evidence ad nauseum, and by the time he finally makes a decision he has already in- directly killed several other people involved in his life. There are many messages to be read from the play, such as the one printed on the invitation about being true to one's self. It is the job that Mountebanks has taken on, under the direction of Barry K. Smit~, to interpr~t these messages. I am impressed with the way Hamlet develops on stage. Adam . Storke, who plays Hamlet, creates a full, emotional and believable char,acter. His energy carries ·~~~.~'. ~~ . ,,, .. ,, . - - ·~ ... .. . ,, mucb of the performance. The role of Hamlet .• which ·is usually portrayed by a cha.racter showing deep uncertainty and confusion,. is here a .role of a much more confident and aggressive man. Even when he is hesitating, he seems to do so with confidence. The role is very well done. Claudius (George Siletzsky), is a well played part portraying the callous king who is slowly broken down by self doubt and guilt. Diane Sadak, who plays Gertrude, the mother .of Hamlet, has a convincing combination of guilt · and love for her son, a love. that finally made her·See the evil in her new husband. John D.· Mountford was great as Polonius, the lecturing father of Ophelia and Laertes. Mountford · makes Polonius funny and realistic, so that we start to feel affeetionate towa~ds the old .guy in spite of his fawning servitude to the king: The part of Ophelia was ~n interesting one, and the necessary emotion was ef- fectively done by Lora Nelson. Laertes, (Christopher H. Gaynor) brought appropriate vengeful emotion to the stage. lioratio, Hamlet'~ close friend, is very well done by Steve Strunsky. A quiet, helpful friend who is loyal until the end, Strunsky portrays this young man clearly, and throughout the play he is a calming and rational influence on the others. The direction was good. Although stage direction is something I know nothing about, I could appreciate how . an often confusing text is made so much clearer when the diaglogue is interpreted and put into meaningful action. Hamlet is a great play. It is a pleasure to see a lifeless piece of paper become the flowing and realistic lives of the ' characters. Mountebanks has met the challenge with diligence and enthus~asm, making a potentially confusing play interesting and thought provoking. Take the time to see it this week. Whether you're going to Florida or not Don't Miss Delta Upsilon's First Annual Spring Break PARTY· Saturday, March 3 Come run your feet through the sands of D. U. Beac/1. Drink tropical punch and have a beach hall. Party starts atSundo-wn. Free Hawaiian Tropic Sun Visors & Lotion Beach Attire Required $1 Donation at Door CONCORDIENS/S, Morch I, 1984 Page 11 THE ARTS Adijm .Storke (Ham let} and George Siletzky (Claudius> performing in Mountebanks production of Hamlet. Back at the Cabaret ByARTSSTAFF Last Thursday, before an overflowing and. highly yociferous audience, Luke Fannon returned to the Cabaret stage. By now~ a large part of the campus cQrnmunity has seen Luke do his world famous juggling act, but those who went to Cabaret last week saw a new act. Luke's act is original, very funny and at times, . spec- tacular; and much of his suc- cess is related directly to his wonderfulpersoqality and stage presence, not to mention his obvious juggling talent. He gets the audience to participate, starting many of his juggles with tosses from the crowd. non's world famous juggling act was excellent and got the packed house pumped up for the second act. . After a short intermission, Lori Cooper, Despina Nich()las, Stacey Fassberg and Julie Wildman, provided the audience with the second half ()f an entertaining evening. First, Lori Cooper took the stage with Stacey Fassberg and they did a delightful duet on Bill Withers classic \Lean on Me.\ N' eld Lori did some solo vocals in- cluding a song from the musical \God$pell.'' For her final song, she got the entire crowd to. join her in a spirited rendition ()f Janis Joplin's \Mercedes Benz.'' Despina then took the stage and went througll a thoroughly enjoyable medley .()f Carole King songs. Julie Wildman came on and cap- tivated the audience with some pretty songs including Billy Joel's \Summer Highland Falls.\ One of Luke's newer in- novations is his musical juggle, in which he does a fast paced set of tricks to the tune of ''One Step Beyond\ by Madness. He also showed some of the various positions and some of the various objects that jugglers can use. In short, Luke Fan- All of the credit for the per- formance should not be given to the performers alone. While the c: performers put on a great sllow, t one should not forget the staff of ~ Cabaret who has done a com- .o mendable job in looking for ~ acts, providing publicity, ro putting on performances, e_ serving the audience and the .a countless other unnoticed ~ things. Hats off to the staff, .c: performers and supporters ()f a. Cabaret.

Page 11 CON('ORDIENSJS, Morch 1, 1984 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~t {{ ATTHERAT ·-tc {{ ~ t . Frida~, March_ 2, 1984 . . {( {t 100 Days 'tail Graduat1on Celebration t {r 5-7 p.m. sit-down dinner {t {! ~ {!· *SPECIAL .MENU* {( {! -~ {t for $3. 00 {{ ~ « {( Choice of steak or Shrimp in a Basket {:t {! French fries,·Salad, Cake & Beverage {! ~ (upperclass meal cards accepted) ~ Union c.ollege Concert Committee P.resents ~ ~ {t Plus Our Regular Menu {( Echo and the Bunnymen with Let's Active {C * Please note: No counter service {! {( Strictly-Sit-Down Service {:{ plu$ special guest Me~rch 29 * 8 p.m. {! ~ {C R ~ A:lumni Gym Tickets$5 at the box offi~e {C Back By . equest {:< ~ The Colby Sno Revue ~ •••••••••-. {( . 10-2 a.m. . • {( I a· , ,.oL· S' . I ~ Featured Beer: Pabst • Door Pr1:zes ~ 1 · \-l.L\.. . . • 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~¥~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 Get Jour Derby ·1 Notice to All Underclassmen 1· Day Teams Together ·1: On Thursday, March 1st, the Dutch Hollow Pub will be ~~~~~~~~s adn~~n~;~~ ~~e\~!7~h ~;~~f~~; :~t ~~~ 5 t~! • 1 1 N 0 W 1 1 senior class, have been together, leaving only 101 days . D 't • · 1 get psyched for senior week to which you are ALL in- vited. ••••••••••••••••••• WRUC Trivia Scoreboard: FRATERNITY I SORORITY: Phi/Neat Guys ............................ 28 Z B T . . . . . . .. . • . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . .•..... 26 DORMS: Davidson ................................. 55 Fox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....... 22 South . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...................... 4 Wes-t .......••...................•.••..... 2 Richmond .............................•... 1 INDEPENDENT /HICKORY BRONNER/SMITtt: Brainless wonders ........................ 15 Hickok ......... ,_ ......................... 13 Boobirds .........................•....... 13 Varsity Golf .............................. 10 Three Stooges ............................. 2 :Farside ................................... 2 Dry Heaves ....................•.......... 1 82-83 4th Floor Ghetto ...... , .......... · ...... l President's Commission on Konstan1\in Chernenko .................. 1 187 Total Points 5 Bonus Points Awarded lS.WRUC Stumpers BONUS QUESTION #2: For years ABC'S Wide World of . Sports. has dedicated 'jThe Agony of Defeat\ with the scene of a famous skier tumbliQQ down the face of a mountain. For 5 points, what is the name of the skier? •••••••••••••••••••• ................ _ U.S.NAVYMEDICINE MEDICAL SCHOOL SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM Are you currently in medical school and ~eeking_an. avenue to continue your education without financial burden, a ~edical future that affords a practice with .. out adminiStrative and financial worries? If so, the· Navy has an outstanding()pportunity for you in the Medical School Scholarship Pr()gram. BENEFITS • Full tuition and educational fees • $479.00 per month stipend • Commission as a· United States Naval Officer e Internship and Residency training available upon graduation OBLIGATION • Three years active duty service as a Navy Medical Officer after graduation. • 45.days of required annuar active duty that can be spent in Navy derkships (required, elective, clinical or research) or at Officer Indoctrination .School BASIC QUALIFICATIONS • U.S. Citizen • Excellent p.rofessional references • Enrolled in AMA approved ~edical school For .further information, write or call: LT.John Romac ·Medical Officer Program Leo W. O'Brien Federal Bldg Albany, NY 12207 . (518) 472·-4424 - - S4 du pe W< ar ac tr• co se an AI su ar Ai fr< Pr ca Pr scl en, le~ fen Pil r da scl de stt sis wr E:x an Ri' 432

. . CONCORDIENSIS, March I, 1984 Page13 SClfOL.;J.RSHIPS. Applications for the 1984-85: Pennsylvania State Grants for Pennsylvania residents are now available in the financial Aid Office. Phi Chi Theta Foundation is offerin~$1,000 grants for 1984-85 to women pursuing Bachelor's and Master's programs in business and-or economics. The .~pplication (}eadline is May 1. Further information can be obtained at the FinanCial Aid Office. The Jewish Foundation for Education of Women is a non-. sectarian organization thaf offers need;,based grants and ·interest~free loans. Information and applications for 1984-85· can .be obtained by writing to the Foundation . at 120 West 57 · ~treet, New York, N.Y. 10019. Delta Delta Delta is con- ducting a scholarship corn- petition . for undergraduate women for 1984-85; Applicants are considered on the basis of academic· Fecord,_ ex- tracurricular activities and community service, promise of service to their chosen field, and ~inancial need. Applications, which must be submitted prior to March 15, are available in the ·Financial Aid Office, Dean's Office, and from the Tri Delta Service Projects Chairman on this campus .. The N ati<mal Society of Pro~essional Englneers offers scholarships to undergraduate engineering students with at least a 3,6 G.P.A. Applications for 1984-85, are available in the F-inancial Aid Office~ - ·· - ·' : · · . The Delta Gamina Foun- dation offers loans and schqlarships to its un- dergraduate and graduate student sisters and children of sisters. For more information, write to: Delta Gamma Executive Offices; c-o Grants and Loans Chairman; 3250 Riverside Dr.; Columbus, Ohio 43221. The Albany Area Branch of the English Speaking Union is offering a $1,000 scholarship to nineteen-year-olds for study or personal development in an English Speaking Country during 1984. Copies of the brochure describing the scholarship may be obtained by callitlg Edgar Tompkins, President of the Albany Area Branch at the Albany Public Library 449-3380 or any member ·Of the scholarship committee which is co-,chaired by · Dr. RaymonQ. Vickers and Jerome Flax. The Business and Profe&sional Women's Organization offers grants · to both undergraduate and- graduate women. For more . inf~rmatim1 and an application, write to the Organization at 2012 Massachusetts Avenue, NW; Washington, D.C. 20036. INTERNSHIPS The Assembly Summer Intern Program: Provides an opportunity for 10 to 20 students to· work on research projects supervised by Assembly professional research staff. College students who have completed their junior year by June 1984 may apply. All ap- plicants must be N'ew Y:ork State residents. Deadline: March 31. City()f New York Department of Personnel: Recruitment is now underway for two in- ternships in City government: The Urban Fellows Program & the Summer Management Intern Program. The Urban Fellows Program offers 20 seniors, .recent graduates, and graduate students the op- portunity to work in high levels of City agencies and mayoral offices. , The Summer Management Intern Program provides 40 juniors, seniors and 1984 .graduates with work ex• perience in City government. Applications available in CDC~ Deadline for Urban Fellows: March 15; for Summer Management Intern Program: Marci1l. The Councn of Engineering ot Yale University: offering a limited number of special grants to college Juniors who would like to gain experience in advanced research this sum- GE Summer Fi11ance mer. Applications in CDC. Internship: For male minority Deadline: March 15~ students. This program is designed to give interns direct The Environmental Planning access to GE's Financial Lobby: sponsoring Legislative Management Program after Internships in Environmental graduation based on ·internship Politics for the fall. Applicants performance. Applicants may sh9uld have good written and be Sophomores, Juniors or oral comrnunjcations skills, Senior December graduates. interest in legislative process, Minimum GPA 3.0. Any major and dedication to en- - acceptable, some accounting vironmental , protection. background preferred. Deadline: April 1. Applicants Should have a strong The State Bank of Albany: openings for ·summer interns. Juniors ·wh'o' Wish to explore· banking as a career option are encouraged to apply. Applications available in CDC. Deadline: March 31. The National Trust for Historic Preservation Student Intern Program: provides work learning experience for un- dergraduate and graduate students in a variety of museum operations. Deadline: March 31. desire to enter corporate finance. Turn in resumes to Pat Matteo in the CDC by March 16. - PRIZES\ The Philosophy Department announces a competition for two essay prizes traditionally awarded at Prize Day: The Union College Film Committee Presents: The Celia Glaubach -Prize- awarded to a student who has shown an interest in the cultural significance of the Bible from a secular point of view by sub- mitting a work on one of the following subjects: literary and textual criticism of Biblical subjects; development and production of a short story or play based on the Bible; Biblical archeology; Biblical historicity; philosophy of the Bible. 3/2-3/4 55016$1 The Milton Hymes Stern- feld Prize-awarded forthe best original essay in philosophy by a member of the senior class. Entires for either prize competition should be sub- .mitted pseudonymously to Ms. Marianne Snowden, Hwnanities 215, not·later than March 31, 1984. The author's name and campus address should be enclosed in a separate envelope keyed to the pseudonym. The Department of English invitesthe submission of entries in the following writing com· petitions. The deadline for submission is Friday, April 6. The Allen Essay Prize: awarded to seniors in any department for· non-fiction essays. The writing may be a chapter from a thesis, a revised term paper, an essay written specifically for submission, etc. No limits of length are specified, but custom suggests a lower limit of 6-8 pages, and an upper limit of perhaps 30. The Van Orden Prize: for freshmen (itt any department) excelling in English com· position. CAMPUS. NEWS The Yudis Prize: for the student in any class who bas .produced the best piece of prose fiction. The Department also supervises and judges entries for the Academy of American Poets Prize, awarded annually for the best poem by a Union undergraduate~ Each prize entry should be labeled with· a pseudonym on both the paper and an attached sealed · envelope; inside the envelope should be the student's real name and address. All of this shoUld be placed in a large manila envelope marked with the name of the competition for which it is being submitted. The envelope should be delivered to the Department office in Humanities 212, no later than Friday; April 6 .. Any questions about these competitions should be directed to Professor Smith in the Humanities Building {telephone 6214). G'AREE'R NEWS Please let Mary Rodman know if you have had any company offers. Thanks. Three or four immediate full- time openings in GE's Financial Management Program. 1983 graduates or December graduates. Send resume and cover letter to: Barbara Kirby, Bldg. 5, Sixth Floor West, GE, Schenectady, NY 12345. HELP WANTED Student interested in babysitting-Moo. & Fri. af- ternoons preferably, 2 children 8 months and 3 years. Need own transportation. Niskayuna area. Please contact 783-7611. _ .. Telephone-- -sates-evenings- Cash pay. Two blocks from campus on Union St. For more information please call Bill or Kathy at 374-1492 or 374-5372. .Earn $400 to· $800 a week wo~k 2-3 hours dally processing mall from home, no experience necessary! No obligation! Send stamped envelope to: Matsan 3565 W. Wolfram Chicago II 60618. . ' . FINANCIAL AID Financial Aid application~ are now available for 198~5. .Please pick up yours at · ~inancial aid office in Becker Hall. (Remember you mus~ reapply every year.) FAF's . must be mailed by March 1 s~ that aU forms are received by the April 15 deadline. SPEAKBRS, - Judith Stein, Partner, Strategic Cominunications will speak on Strategies for Getting Action Through Effective Communications on March 1, 1984, 3:45 p.m. in Room 312, Bailey Hall, Union College. Douglas P.. Lackey, Baruch College of the City University of New York, will speak on Nuclear War, Deterrence Threats, and BUID8ll Rights on Friday, March 2, 1984. All colloquia in Humanities · Bldg., Rm. 213. Reception af- terwards in the Humanities Lounge. '!'his Colloquia is open to the public; for further in- formation call Marianne Snowden (518) 370-6376~ TERMS ABR_OAD =======:::::::=:.. Any Juniors, who will be writil)g .a senior thesis in. Economics or a related field, who will be gone in the spring term are requested to stop in at the Economics Department office to fill out a form on which they specify their preferences for thesis advisors. The Film Committee Presents: Richard Pryor, Here and Now on March 2, 3 and 4 in SS016. Admission is $1. National Lampoon's Vacation on Tuesday March 6 in SS016. Admission is $1. CLUB NEWS Newman Club Meeting-- Monday, March 5th at 8:00p.m. in Carnegie 4th Floor Lounge. Mardi Gras Cabaret on Tuesday, March 6th at 8:30 p.m. The Newman Club is sponsoring a pre-Lenten Mardi Gras Cabaret. Admission $1.00. Ash Wednesd~-March 'ftlT, 4-:-00-p;nf. -fif 'Memorial Chapel there will be an Interfaith Prayer Service and the Distribution of Ashes to mark the beginning of Lent. Sister · Joan Vlaun, O.P. and Rev. Hugh Nevin will conduct the service and Hugh Allen Wilson will provide the music ac- companiment. Bible Study--Thursday, March 8th at 4:00 p.m. in Campus Ministry Office. Sister Joan facilitates a study of and a praying with the Gospel of Matthew. SUJ1day Social-March 11th. The Newman Club will host an Open House at the Rectory following the 7: 30 Mass. Refreshments will be served. Come and relax a few minutes before returning to exam preparation. Lenten Program-A series of four Interfaith Prayer Services are being sponsored by the Campus Ministry Office. Sister Joan and Rev. Hugh Nevin are co-ordinating the program and it is their desire to involve as many talented students as possible to show how the Arts provide a way of giving creative praise to God. Thursday, March 15, 4:30 p.m. Memorial Chapel-Choral and Musical Instruments. The Union College Concert Band will perform its Winter Concert this Friday evt\ning March 2, beginning at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The band, under the direction of Mr. Thomas Brown, will perform a broad range of contemporary and traditional works. All are invited to attend this evening of fine music!

'• ! ~, Page 14 CONlVRDIE'NSIS, Mord1 /, 1984 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS. To the \Mild Mannered Reporter,\ Pleqse don't leave us! We'll do (almost) anything! Love, your two favorite women To Gordon, Ob, Ken, and Ted, Welcome and Congrats!!!!!! From the gang at The House and assorted others To the two girls who want FIJI to get a \real\ pledge class: We're sorry to have of- fended you, but FIJI pledges have traditionally had an aversion to seafood, and you two were the inspiration .for Starkist. ~The FIJI Pledge Class No disagreements, less alcohol and hopefully no divider-next term should be as memorable as this one. Thanks! There once was a Delta Gamma named Space, Whom everyone thought was without a trace, She let everyone think .she was a fool, For she was only playing it cool, Now we all know who has the ACE!! Have a great week Lisa. ++Love, your secret sister, LMC YEARBOOK PERSONAL.S: Now is your chance to send that personal you always wanted to. For one dollar you receive one line in the special personal section of the 1984 yearbook, At the same time, you will be contributing to the success of this year's yearbook. Do it today . . . so you will always remember tomorrow. Forms are available at the Box Office. Deadline: March 5, 1984. Dear D., If you won't listen to your two favorites then think about poor me. Who will I abuse each week? You can't do this to me! ! PLEASE reconsider! ! ! Signed, Editor in distress Dear Sharon, I know I'm late-- -BUT-1 hope you have (and had) a great week. This is last week's secret sister so you should get two this week. Love, your late secret sister, LMC KAL-ILY, GL-OYT's. Who are the New Direc- tors???????? Where are the New Direc- tors! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! To the WRUC Trivia staff- please learn how to tech the most listened to radio show that our station has. I hate Dead Air. To the pledges at the Tool Box: Good luck and have fun on your adventurous weekend. Whiit would I do without all of you and especially some of you! Love, Skyd To my bear- You will always be my honey. I just hope I will always be yours. I love you. Forever-XO L.R. Your father is on T.V.- he didn't break the luggage. Brad, is it one or two? You think you could smoke the paper right this time? Aloha-R.G. S., Where's your pantyhouse (not to mention your pants, laundry, bathing suit, etc.)? Shuffles M.E., You put the sheets on the wrong bed! Next time lock the door because. \I Love Lucy.\ K.L.-Ffrst get off the floor, then make the plans-- Switzerland right? Sharon, let's walk-it'll only take one day and a half. Rob L:R., How about tonight? Please, From Across The Bridge Sharon, so you're jQst happy? Another fifteen cups to go. Need a lift. S.K., D.B., M.F., D.L., S.S., L.P., Thanks for the super weekend. \Next year in Paramount.'' Honky-Dori, \Way to go Daddy-0\ 'cause \I like to be in America,\ Hif. We were both wrong! OWH: So glad you were at the Skellar, it has been a fantastic .month! l hope you are looking forward to vacation, Cindy can't wait to meet you! SMC Fraternal greetings to my brothers in Delta Omega ·Tau. Really, it was me first . .AW, come on guys ... Dickens . Sue M.-I STILL WANT YOUR BODY!! -Rm. ? FOX, other side. ZBT --HA, HA HA, HA, HA HA, HA, HA, HA HA, HA HA, HA, HA HA, HA, HA, HA, HA, HA!! -PID NEAT GUYS Jick, Jag & Meesh-Only losers go home during the eighth week!! ! Going home this week too?'?? -An uninterested party ZBT-Don't feel bad, it was a mismatch from the start. Phi Neat Guys JEN- You can't judge a chick by her cup size .... lucky for you!!! -????? To Phi Neat Guys-Don't rock the boat unless you can swim! ! ZBT Rachel-Enjoy your birthday dinner; but don't drink until you lose it, only til you can't stand any more. A neighbor Molson· . . .. --·:··}\ To Phi Neat Guys- The opera ·ain't over 'til the .fat lady sings. ZBT Dear Rachel-M Y Bday B A M 1. Your neighbor. To Phi Neat Guys--You've won the battle, but you haven't won the war yet. ZBT Dear Rach--Hav:e a happy B- day; and goodlUck with the ....... i. Another neighbor. Gee Rachel, you have a lot of neighbors. To Phi Neat Guys-The game~s not over yet. I stab at thee from Hell's Heart. l spit at thee with rnY last breath .. From ZBl' Question: Why don't seagulls like hairy creatures? Answer: Boris. To Phi Neat Guys-Are you up for a match, would youlike totry the game on our terms? ZBT Folk Group will meet Sund;ay,.March 11 at6:30_p.:m. at Sf. John's To· rehearse befo:re leading the congreg·ation at the 7:30 MQss :AVAILABLE AT THE DUTCH HOLLOW PUB ·' .. . . . .. . ........ , ... .. .. ............. ......... . - The finest ale brewed and bottled i1.1 Canada, •mp10rtc:d by Martlellmporting Co., Inc., Great Nook, NiY.@ 1982. - - - ov f01 at R1 di: an Th du tin USI ca Ur ha ev, clE va r on . ho an lo• atl Ju re1 se• thl to Ad rm pl~ ~ do' fro se1 Ad 1 hoc thi: aw No No fin it gaJ

CONCORDIENSIS, March J, 1984 PagelS SPORTS Slcaflng Dutchmen • • • Skiers End Season on Soggy Note Sports Talk By CAROL. VERDEN Sports Staff The ski season may not .be over for many people but it is for the ski tearn .. The last irace at Ji.nuniny Peak, hosted by RPl was somewhat o.f a disappointment to a young team an](:ious to prove their ability. The foul weather conditions during the race rendered the tim.ing equipment practically useless~ and necessitated the cancelling of the Giant Slalom. Unfortunately, the Giant Slalom happens to be Union's strongest event. Thi's set of circumstances clearly put Union at a disad- vantage. The men's team was counting on the second ·event. Only Bart Lehman and Dave Carrier finished the Slalom with competitive times. Carrier held his own in the Slalom beating fifty~eight racers to steal fifth plac'e overall. ''Dave was the most valuable member of the team this year,\ according to Coach ·Earle Stokes. He cer- tainly proved ·his talents in the last race despite the can .. cellation of the Slalom. Brian Walter, Earl Stokes, Torn Baitay, and John Rannestad all disqualified in the Slalom event. \It was a .tight course with a. lot of ·erankers,\ exclaimed Denise Kitsock. · The women's team did well in the Slalom. The course was very confusing and many of the Union women lost time due to their lack of training in the gates. Debbie Carr, Sarah Calderirti, and Laurie Sanders came in just behind · Carol Yerden, finishing their season in the top third. Yerden: beat the best time from both Hamilton and Buffalo,· shaving seconds off her time· in the second run. Jenny Sconniers and Denise Kitsock, both \Giant Slalom Lovers'', were very disap~ pointed a{ter disqualifying in the Slalom. Despite the varying conditions during the season, Union rnailaged to finish. Sixth out of twelve schools in Division Ill ·skiing. Special thanks to Brian Walters' family for their hospit~lity, and to Coach Schaeffer for his fine job coaching. - With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff Hockey has gained quite a name for itself at Union over the past decade. Ten years ago the small Schenectady Liberal Arts c!lllege had no hockey . team. 'The only remnants of a college hockey heritage could be found in old photographs of Dutchmen s~aters from way back when. H()Ckey was recognized as a sport at Union but seemed to fade away with the post World War U boom of the 1950's. Chicago, en~oying the feeling of just having taken his squad to the Championship game of the NCAA's first Division II Tournament. For reasons that must have perplexed his colleagues, Morrison decided during the late spring-early sununer of '78 to take his family back to the East and assume the challenge of rebuilding the devastated hockey progr&Dn at Union. Ath·lete of '.the Week A man named Ned Harkness was approached about the logistics of possibly starting anew with hockey at Union. Harkness was known th.roughout both the collegiate and professional ranks. He had carried a mid 1950's RPI squad to the NCAA Championships. His next move woUld be to the Ivy Leagues and Cornell Uttiversity. Ned brought home th~ national title once ag1iin at his new post and even developed a young Canadian netminder into one of college hockey's p1emier players. This young man named Ken Dryden g1aduated from Cornell and went on to the NHL. So did Harkness, but Dryden's ensuing Sllccess in the pro ranks would n()t be enjoyed by his ex~ mentor. Ned was signed by the Detroit Reg Wings as Head C()ach. Many say that the rah rah college style of Harkness wasnotsuitedforthe~L.Ned believed he could prove his sk:eptics wrong. His rah rah got old very quick and Ned found himself, for the first time in his career, as a coaching failure. But this- wollld not last long. Morrison was. no stranger to the Capital District having once coached hockey at Albany Academy. Morrison arrived in town and set his mind on giving everything he had to return Union hockey to championship level status among small schools in the East. The task before him was incredible. He had no recruits his first cam- paign and had to basically field a roster made up of predominantly J.V. players and match them against the best that Division II hockey had to offer. Upon his arrival at Union, Morrison made it clear to Athletic Director Dick Sakala that he wanted . his Skating Dutchmen to be playing the toughest schedule that was possible. Mariy thought that Morrison was crazy and just abOut sealing his own fate with this tough schedule approach. The hours were long and the miles travelled were many over the first number of seasons. Though often getting discouraged, Morrison knew that with the fine institution he had to offer matched with-the-- wonderful rink and tough schedule he could build a strong program. The goal all along was to reach the ECAC playoffs. Possibly due to the controversy that surro\mded the program when Harkness left, Morrison's squad on three occasions found themselves being slighted by the ECAC Selection Committee. But 6 years later and with an impressive 13-5-1 record Morrison's Dutchmen found themselves as the ECAC's third ranked team in the Cham- pionship playoff. By DREW HURLEY Sports S~aff A magician, who uses a hockey stick instead of a hat and rabbit (as described by a local sportswriter), gains athlete of the week honors. Junior co-captain, Gill Egan receives the honor for the second time this season as his ' three unassisted goals led Union to a 64 victory over North Adams State in the opening round of the ECAC Division II delte Pasquale and score. Gill then scored the only .goal of the second period on a power play that tied the game at three. From the left face-off circle Gill shot a nifty backhand that the North Adams' goalie didn't have a chance on, as it caught the upper left corner of the net. Egan completed his hat trick at 18:53 ofthe final period. It was a key goal as the explosive Mohawks. trailed only by one. He beat Pasquale on a breakaway after picking the puck up at mid-ice and out- skating the two Mohawk defensemen. playoffs.. · With Union shorthanded and down 3-1, Egan stole the puck from a North Adams' defen- seman deep in the N (lrth Adams' zone. He .proceeded to Egan's performance Saturday brought his season point totals to 24 goals and 20 o assists, for a team high of 44 iii points. He already is in .seventh £ place on Union's all-time ;? ]Jt~· Intramural Spot )jtr ByGW Sports Staff The Chi Psi intramural iee · hockey team is the recipient of this week'~ intramural spotlite award. Chi Psi lived up to its No. 1 ranking by defeating the No. 3 ranked Rejects in the finals on February 13. Although it was a close and exciting game; Chi Psi pulled it out in the end with the final score of 3-1. Rob Antonucci, Kyle Woodman, and Steve Kloppenberg (the captain) each scored'> for the champions. Chi Psi had to get by a very tough Sigma Chi team in the semifinals, while the Rejects upset No. 2 seed AD Phi. - Special than~s to Mark Wasserman for his officiating throughout the season. Rock-n-Roll Pizza Pub ·Amazing Sub Sandwishes Mi)(ed . ..................... & • 2 .. 25 H·a m . . . . . . . . ., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2. 25 Turkey .....................•. 2.50 Roast Beef .............•..... 2.50 Tun·a .. ...... , .......... , ..... ~ 2.50 Italian Mixed •............... 2. 25 This Wee.k'• Sp~cia;l: one free sm a H soda with purchase. of any sub sandwich Free Delivery _ Open 7 days/Wk. at 1 :30p.m. ·We will close for spring break, Thurs., March 15, .after normal business hours. HAVE A GREAT VACATION! 1 . · We will reopen Mon., March 2'6 at 1:30 p.m. 0 ..c: c. scoring list with 52 goals and 40 assists for a total of 90 points. qm, who received \ECAC forward of the week\ earlier this season, is from Napean, Ontar-io. The two-year let- terman is an Economics major and a Chi Psi brother. Gill Egan I Softball Signups: I I Men's A League--Pink entry: form due March 29. Mah- datorymeeting: April3,6:30 : Men's B League--Blue entry i form due March 29. Man- dat~ry meeting: April 3,7:00 : Women's. League--Blue entry 1 form due March 29. Man- datory meeting: April 3, 7:30 : Co-Ree League--Yellow entry 1 form due March 3(). Man- 1 datorymeeting: April4,6:30 1 Harkness decided to take on the challenge. of building a pr()gram from the · bottom up alld returned to the college game as the new coach of the new Union College Skating Dutchmen. Next came beautiful Achilles rink, an influx of C~Inadian and American high scll.ool stars and the .rest is history. He packed his bags dlll'ing mid season in 1978 and Union found itself minus a h~key coach and in need of a new direction. Schenectady was ·just not to be for DiviSion I ho(!key and the new Athletic Director returned to the small college prospective in relation to hockey at Union. While Union hockey w:as surrounded by controversy a man named Charlie Morrison was sitting back in his office at Lake Forest College, outside of - The large and vocal crowd at last Saturday night's playoff win at Achilles carne out to see a team that has come a long way over the last 9 years, both up and down, but thanks to the dedication of architect Morrison, Union once again can find themselves at the top of small college hockey ranks. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\­ {( • 28th Annual Union Men's Invitational· ~ ~ The oldest. Division Ill 1rack invitational in America. Hosti . 12 {( {c . teams (overt 50 athlete.s) from the Northeast. {( {! Sa. turday, March 3, 1984 iX ~ ~ Memorial Fieldhouse {( 1 G a.m. - Field Events 1 p.m. · Running Events 5:30p.m ... Mile Relay {( {! {( {( {C •.refreshments available• {C {( •free admission to U~ion students w I ID• {C ~ . BETHERE ~ ~~~~··~~·~·~~~~~·~·~··~~~~~~

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, Mor«.'h I, 1984 SPO. . . . wild victory over No. Adams Skating Dutchmen Advance; 6-4 By A.W. Sports Staff It was their first playoff game in seven years and their first under Coach Charlie Morrison. They were playing a team. they had lost to twice this year, and they were down 3-o after 15 minutes of the game. But the Dutchmen overcame all hurdles to defeat North Adams 6-4 in the quarter-finals of the ECAC division II Western region hockey playoffs. The victory advanced them to the semifinals against Oswego, which was played last night. Gill Egan had three goals for Union-one short-handed, one on a powerplay, and one during the period, Union had regrouped and pulled to within one goal. Dave Weiss scored the first, as a Bill Kirby slap-shot deflected from the goalie off Weiss' shoulder and onto his stick, and he .promptly put it through. Then after the referee put Dave Appleby in the box for one of - the best hits of the season, Egan scored his short- handed goal. He stole the puck away from a rushing defen- seman 30 feet away from the net, and went in one-on-one. After what seemed to be five minutes worth of fakes and shifts, he finally slipped it past the goalie. Union tied it up on Egan's power play goal, as he con- Freshman defenseman Gavin Morten .applies a bone crunching check to a Mohawk opponent. Union d~feated No. Adams St. 6·4 in ECAC quarterfinal action. the closing minutes of the game, a goal which broke open a one- goal game before the Mohawks had time to pull their goalie. Tom Gerry and Jeff Mac- burnie put the Mohawks up 3-0 in the first period. Gerry, who scored five goals and three assists in three games against the Dutchmen, scored the first goal, while MacBurnie scored the other two, his second being a long range slap shot that sur- prised goalie Wayne McDougall. But by the end of trolled the face-off in the Mohawk's end, and flipped a backhand into the top corner. The next 30 minutes of play was a display of cautiousness by both teams, as both squads looked for a break or an op- positi<m's mistake. McDougall had settled down at this point. Granted, it was difficult for Wayne to stay ·alert with only six shots coming his way in the first period, but a .500 average by a goalie isn't going to help win hockey games. He shut Track in RPl Invy ByD.I.U. Sports Staff The Union omen's track team competed this past weekend at the R.P.I. Invitationals. Win- ston Britton took first in the 400 meter dash with a time of 51.1. George Capozzi was a third place finisher in the 45 meter dash clocking in at 5.6. Also third place finishers were Scott Remillard in the 35 pound weight throw, and Rob Hohlar in the 1000 meters. Chris O'Donnel ran a spectacular 1500 meter race overtaking three competitors in the last BOO meters to place fourth in a time of 4:07.2. Bob Bertagna scored in the triple jump, Britton scored also in the 45 meter and Remillard scored again the shotpu~. The team scored 38 points to place seventh out of twelve teams. The women's team traveled to Cortland on Saturday to compete in the N.Y.S.A.I.A.W. Tournament. Though none of the W()men placed in the meet, impressive performances were made by the following: Jenny Snover ran the 500 meter in 125.6, a season's best, and the 500 meter hurdles in 10.3 seconds; Andrea Grief ran a 46.6 second 300 meter, and Gigi Giordano jumped 13'9'' and 28'9\ for the long and triple jwnps respectively. SCOREBOARD HOCKEY (14-5-1) (16-8-1 overall) Union 6 North Adams St. 4 Union 67 Union 70 Union 73 MEN'S BASKETBALL (12·12) RPI58 Clarkson 61 Middlebury 70 North Adams down in the second period though, and in tbe meantime Union had ac- cumulated a. huge 34.-13 shot advantage after two periods. 0 Finally, midway through the third, Duane Joyce gave Union the play it was looking for. \Duane made a great pass on that scoring play,\ praised coach Charlie Morrison, \It was really the turning point of the gam.\ Joyce fed a streaking Mike Rozzi the puck, and it resulted in a dramatic break- away goal, and a 4-3 Union ll;!ad. Eight seconds -later BUI Kirby blasted a screen shot past disheartened goalie John Pasquale, and Achilles Rink almost el'ploded. \Having that sell-out crowd was great for the players,\ said Morrison. ''It gave them a big lift, especially when we took the lead.\ The Mohawks scored their fourth goal soon afterwards, and when Egan went .into the penalty box with four minutes left in the game, the Dutchmen bencn showed signs of concern. But Union did a commendable job at killing the. penalty, and when Egan came out of the box his second break-away goal of the night, Union high-fived its way to the semi-finals. As far as playing Oswego is concerned, Morrison isn't worried that the game is at Oswego, or that they are the defending champions. \Hey these guys play . a tough schedule every year, so they know what good competition is. In our last game against Oswego, we had a fantastic first .period, the best period of hockey. that I've ever seen as a coach. Consistency will be a major factor for us. Oswego's rink is tough for a visiting team, but we've showed this year that we can win on the road. The only question the players have when they go on the road is what time the bus leaves.\ Skating Dutchmen -Top Scorers- G A P Gill Egan 24 20 44 Curt Cole 17 17 34 Joe Caruso 15 19 34 Mike Rozzi 1.2 16 28 Tom Hodgins a 17 25 John MacKenzie 3 19 22 Jamie Knight 12 10 22 _,..Goa ltending- w L T. Ga. Wo McDbugall 9 2 1 3.08 · Bart Brooks 7 4 0 3.113 Score by periods: North Adams Union 3 il 1·4 2 ' 3-4 First periO<t: Scoring - t, North Adams, Gerrr (Hayes), 0:56; 2, North Adams, Mile· Burnie (Carpino, Fairbairn), 5:02; 3, North Adams, MacBurnle (Fairbairn), 14:4; 4, UniOn, Wei$$ (·Kirby), 16:33; 5, Union, Egan (unaulsted), 17:030 Penalties·· Cai'us.o, Ul)lon, 8:17; MatBurnie, North Adams, 9:58; Appleby, Union, 16:42; Studley, North Adams, lB:oiS. Second· period: Scoring • 6, Union, Egan (unassisted), 0;.240 Penalties · Pellerin, North Adams, 4;31; Caruso, Union, 1.0:520 Pasquale·, North Adams: serv~d b.y Downer), 19:200 Tf!lrd period: Scoring • 1, Union, Rozzi (Joyce), 9:5 1; 8, K irt)y (Hawke~. We r· neckel, 10:07; 9, North Adams, Repetto (Pellerin), 11:31l; 10, Union, Egan (unassist- ed), 18:S3o Penalties· Egan, Union, 15:45, Goalie saves • Pasquale, North Adams, 16- 15·13-41; McDougall, Union, 3·7-3-13o Shots on goat • North Adams, 6-7-4-17; Union, 18-16;16-50. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS Athlete of ·fhe Week Gi.ll Egan's three unassis1ed goals helped Union advance to the semi-.final round of the ECACplayoffs played last night in Oswego. • •• school records set Cotug~o Leads Swimmers By RONALD NEWBOID ~ports Staff This past weekend was a most eventful one for the Men's Swim team,· as they traveled to Colgate University for the Division III State Cham:- pionships. Each of the team members swam exceedingly well, setting a total of eignt Union College records during the three day event, and scoring the highest point total in the team's histQry. Individual school records were set by Co-captain Kyle Cotugno, who now holds a total of nine; in the 200 individual medley, the 200 yeard freestyle, and the 50 yard freestyle. Freshman Andy Crossley set school records in the 50 yeard freestyle and the 50 yard backstroke, and Sophomore Brian Chabot now holds the 50 year breaststroke record. Two relay marks were also broken; the 400 yard medley relay by the team of Andy Cr-ossley, Brian Chabot, Kyle Cot11gno, and Ron Newbold, as well as the 400 yeard freestyle relay by Ron Newbold, Kyle Cotugno, Steve .Zehl and Andy Crossley. As a graduating senior and Co-captain, I w-.ollld like to extend my appreciation and thanks to all the varsity team members for a tremendous effort throughout the season, and especially to Dave Weick, Steve Jacobs and Kyle Cotugno-fellow seniors Who have dedicated four enjoyable seasons to the Union, College Swim Team. We won o'ur share of meets, andshollld be proud of our accomplishments~ Garnet five (12-72} Finish Season Strong By JACKNESS and JIMNESS For BLACKNESS Sports Staff The Union College basketball team began its quest for a .50() season last week by defeating a game RPI team 67;.58 at the Armory in Troy and a scrappy Clarkson squad 70-611ater in the week. 0 • At RPI the Dutchmen used an aggressive diamond and one, defense to contain RPI's high scoring guard, Eric Wein- berger. Offensively the Dut- chmEm came out strong, but could only muster a six point half time lead. In the second half the Dutchmen played the type of basketball that had been expected of them all year. Joe Wood's 16 second half-points and Tom Blackburn's ferocious defense allowed the Dutchmen to build a 23 poin.t lead which proved insurmountable despite a late second half rally by the Engineers. Against Clarkson, the Dut- chmen were able to pull out a strong victory despite the tender ankles of both Joe Wood and Torn Blackbllrli. After falling behind in the first half by ten points the D11tchemen ex- ploded to outscore Clarkson 26 to 5 en route tQ a nine point victory. Strong llench efforts were turned in by Brian Laux and Pete Torncello. Joe Wood and Kevin Bartlett combined for 37 points as tlle Dutchmen improved their record to 11-12~ Junior guard Pete Torncello driving during Union'~ 70·61 victory over Clarkson. The Dutchmen's 73·70 win over Middlebury Tues. brought their record to 12-12. ' ...... ..,.. .i: lo.. (JJ :! ..... Ill Q. > ~ 0 ... 0 ..c a (/) c: ..c ..c 0 0:\: (!) > ~ If) >- ..0 0 0 ..c: 0. • c .. I t I 1,i ' r ( E f l 1 I J ( I ' i: Cl 1 r ( Cl I cj d 1 t ] , f ~ ' ' ( t I ( ( I 1: 1 I t ~ l ~ I I I i 1 ~ I ( t

