4p.m .. 6p.m. 1:30 p.m. 1.:30 p.m. 3p.m. 2p.m. 3p . .m, 6:30p.m. I 2:30p.m. 10 Siena 1 tsburgh 1 RPil Uniono Roseo RPI 12 Union2 Union 3 4 Union 0 Union 0 0 RPI34 ore 50 6-yard was ~ekicker drilled. und out have Dut- a knee the has led ~ense in last few solid, p the games most ~hmen 1:30 en >- \\ <1! c E ro ~ >- 1.. L ro _I >- .0 0 .._ 0 r; 0. CXIV, No.6 York Mayor Speaks at Union : I Bulk Rate U.S. Postage J.»aid Permit No. 215 Schenectady; N.Y. 12308 Local Economy Changing By AARON TOFFLER Staff On Thursday October 25, Schenectady Mayor Karen Johnson discussed \Economic Development in Schenectady\ at an Administration and Engineering Systems colloquium. The talk was sponsored by the Institute of Administration and Management. (lAM) Schenectady has seen a tremendous change in economy\ in the past few years. Although there is a distinct lack of huge companies in the city, Johnson cites, ''home-grown 'businesses and small businesses are doing very well.'' has not been able to get them to agree on a price. The major problem that the Mayor cited of was one of \marketing Schenectady. \We have lots of people working on economic development without coordination and with<mt energy. There are a lot o~ good things about our com- munity but we're not packaging it and not selling it.\ Mayer of Schenectady, Karen Johnson, paid a visit to Union last Thursday, October 25 to speak on the city's economy. Mayor .Johnson began by saying that \the city of Employment at G.E. has decreased by 10,000, creating a need for diversification of the Schenectady job market to meet the needs of the residents.·- Johnson also spoke of some of the projects proposed for the economic development of \In order to attract more companies to the area, we must look on a county-wide development. Companies are looking for a general area, not a specific place. It doesn't really matter where they are located.\ Alumni Speak on careers Schenectady. . There is a residential area East of Schenectady called By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor-in-Chief On Tuesday, . Oct. 23 the Career Development Center sponsored a communications panel in the Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall, at 7 p.m. For an audience of some 75 interested students and other servors, four Union alumni from the television, film, publishing, and advertising fields spoke on their professions, industries and how they acquired their respective jobs. First to speak as Gretchen Schwartz, a 1981 Union graduate with a 13A in English, who is currently a film production coordinator with Jalbert Productions, a small New York City company that produces mostly skiing documentaries and similar films. Schwartz listed the various jobs she has had over the past four years. Upon graduating from Union, she interned, without pay, at channel ten's PM Magazine here in Albany for six months. While working ''It is no fun to be an artist in a bank; there is no joy on the periphery.\ · -Henry. Bernhard '52 nights to support herself, Sch- wartz spent those months \seeing what everyone did\ on the show. She also learned just what she wanted to do and what she did not want to do in television production. She made valuable contacts in the field as well. After the internship ended, she took a job with a cable television station in the Albany Assembly for a year. Before that job ended, she started job hunting,. Unfortunately, she learned at Jalbert that \a lot of those resumes\ one sends. to companies \get dumped in the basket.\ Not all resumes are thrown away of coJ,lrse, but many are, ller advice is, \Just tell everybody you talk to that you are looking for a job.\ Next, she held a position with a Boston advertising agency. Her boss-there had -c.bnneetians · at Jalbert Productions so he forwarded Schwartz's name there. However, an opening did not exist right off so Schwartz used an employment agency for a time before the Jalbert job finally came through. She found employment agencies helpful because they kept her finan- cially stable while she was waiting for her desireq job. Schwartz's final. advice is \There will always be some reason they (companies) do not want to hire you, but keep trying.\ Kate White, executive editor with Mademoiselle Magazine, was second to speak. A'72 Union graduate with a BA in English, White had a rather unusual way of entering the job market. Lorraine Marra, director of student activities, entered White into Glamour Magazine's TopTen College Women Contest, White won. She subsequently was hired as a secretary at Glamour. While literally washing dishes there for six manths, she was able to write small articles without pay for Glamour. Although White was given less than desirable assignments applicant which led to his being hired: First,. this person had a special .background . in publishing. This asset sets an applicant apart from the pack. White was not interested in hiring someone with a masters degree per se; she wanted someone with unique ex- perience. Second, she found in the applicant an enthusiasm and liveliness, not the stiffness she found in the other candidates. Finally, the applicant had \a clear sense of what the magazine (Mademoiselle) _was about, better than the other candidates.\ These three points got this applicant the job. Henry Bernharq, a '52 graduate with a BA in English, spoke third. Current president Continued on page 4 at first, Glamour did see \this wonderful enthusiasm\ she showed in her work. She transferred from the promotion department to features and tJ) wrote her own column \On ~ Your Own.\ .s:: She then left Glamour for <a: Family Weekly as an articles _E editor, then an executive editor. c. ttl This past .. year she joined c Mademoiselle as an e~ecutive > ..0 editor. She supervises all the .12 ''There are a lot of good things about our community, but we're not packaging it and selling u.~' · -Mayor Johnson Woodlawn that suffered from a high water table. Plans are being made to drain the area and use it for residential development. Also discussed were plans to try to sell the Carl's and Proctor's complex on State Street. \It is currently owned by North East Savings Bank and banks don't retail very well.\ The complex, however, has lost money and is going to be hard to sell. The city has also been trying to sell the Two Guys store that has been vacant for a few years. The lot is owned by an outside company, however, and the city Johnson also noted that the unique stores attract people to Schenectady. With Union in the heart of the city, and a very good potential source of economic activity, the mayor expressed her hope of im- proving the relationship bet- ween the college and the city. Here, again, marketing seems, to be the major problem. One of Johnson's goals as mayor is to inform the students of what Schenectady has to offer and invite them to become an integral part of the city. Such a relationship, Johnson believes, would be beneficial for students and the city alike. articles not related to fashioQ ~ and beauty and is involved in· c. the long range planning for the magazine. She is also still able Pumpkin Season has arrived!! These were seen at Fo Castle Farms in Burnt Hills. to do some freelancing for Mademoiselle, as well as other magazines. White then discussed a recent case whereby she selected a job applicant ta .. work for Mademoiselle. She 'discussed just what she found in this Hart on Mondale *-Paget eleven-* Intramural Sports Standings *-Page nineteen-*

c: Ill N c: Ill u Ill '- Ill u Page 2 >- .0 0 +- 0 .c Cl. CONCOR/)1/:'N.\'1.\: .Voremher I. /984 Church Gets -copper Top By MARCY BURSTINER The Church of St. John the Evangelist, across the street from the main gate of the college, has been undergoing reconstructionsince last spring. The $450,000 renovation of the large glass spire is the first phase of a project to restore the structural integrity of the red gothic church which has been deteriorating for many years. Dedicated in 1904, the church originally had a solid roof cone of red slate. This roof was replaced twenty years later with a glass top as a result of high winds which would knock off the slate tiles. · water penetrated m over the years, and caused the metal skin to deteriorate. The metal began pulling away from the wood supports, causing more moisture penetration, and. rotting of the wood frame. Last year, architects and engineers studied the church structure and presented a report to the Historic District Commission of Schenectady. The commission, working with the engineers and architects, approved a plan to reconstruct the coRe of the spire out of standing seam copper. As the tallest structure in the area, and because it adds significantly to the Schenectady Skyline, it might be eligible for funds as an historic building, Father Provost commented. Plans for the church were originally drawn up in 1892 from a dream Father John HeHly, pastor at the time, had of \This building has united people ... they have a real ;love and loyalty to it.\ building a • church \in which every communicant wauld have an unobstructed view of the altar and be able to hear the celebrant.\ The Church of St. John the Evangelist, which faces Union's cam· pus, is under const-ruction. Unfortunately, the glass and metal structure created an excess weight on the building. In addition, the glass was dif- ficult to seal, a great amount of Copper was . chosen as a suitable material for its ability to restore the structural in- tegrity, keep out moisture, conserve heat, and still conform with the other materials in the building and remain consistent with the historical nature of the church. The present building, rising 230 feet from .its base to the cross on top of its copper spire, has the capacity to seat 1,700 people. From every seat \there is an unobstructed view of the altar due to the absence of pillars and the pitch or descent of the floor from vestibule to sanctuary,\ a church newsletter stated. Rally Held .... Cost of materials Grenada Remembered In addition, there was a cost factor involved. To replace the roof with a glass and ahuninum structure would have cost nearly $900,000 as compared with the $450,000 necessary for copper. To have constructed it with glass and copper would have totaled over one million dollars. By DAVID GULLIVER Staff To commemorate the United States invasion of Grenada one year ago, the Union College Reagan-Bush Committee sponsored a liberation Day rally on Wednesday, October 24. United States Marine Captain William W. Donahoe spoke to a meager gathering of thirty students on the subject of U.S. foreign policy and the invasion. Contrary to a previous commentary in the October 25 issue of Concordiensis, a student in Grenada at the time of the attack, Salvador Duffa, did not speak at the rally. According to sophomore Brian Kelly, Deputy Youth Coor- dinator for Reagan-Bush, Duffa could not attend the rally due to a flight delay. Many Grenadan students were scheduled to speak nationwide as a part of President Reagan's campaign. Before the speech, junior Eric Upman, Chairman of the Union College Reagan-Bush Com- mittee, handed out American flags and led the crowd in the Pledge of Allegiance. Lipman then introduced Captain Donahoe, a graduate of Hofstra University, who spoke as a \civilian patriot\ and \not as an official representative\ of the military. His speech was informative and concise, stating the background of the Grenadan situation and the three major reasons for the invasion. Prime Minister Maurice Bishop was assassinated in a coup on October 12, 1983. That created an anarchy which U.S. intelligence reports claimed ' was a threat to Americans on the island and could have become a- hostage situation similar to the Iranian embassy takeover. Cuban engineering teams had meanwhile begun construction of a 12,000 foot aircraft runway near the capital, Saint Georges. An 8,000 foot runway, Donahoe claimed, is sufficient for the largest commercial flights,_ whereas 12,000 feet is suitable for \high performance ,air- craft\ such as military air- planes. This situatioh gave President Reagan three motives for the invasion. The first and foremost was the threat to American civilians as stated in the in- telligence report. The. U.S. invaded to protect and evacuate our citizens. Secondly, Donahoe said, was the commitment of the U.S. government to its more than forty-six treaties. Caribbean nations reportedly requested the U.S. to enforce this com- mitment, which can be traced back to the Monroe Doctrine. The final reason for the in- vasion, according to Donahoe, was to maintain the ·~status quo\ in the region. He ,stated that approximately two-thirds of American shipping passes through the Caribbean basin. There was, in addition, the possible establishment of a communist-controlled airfield a mere ninety miles from Florida. \no need for extra people in the way,\ said Donahoe. \It just makes a mountain out of a molehill.\ The press was not informed, he believes, \to prevent the KGB from finding out,\ which might have. com- promised the secrecy of . the mission and jeopardized the American soldiers. Captain Donahoe also feared that the press might have given biased opinions of the invasion, noting, \The Marine Corps is seldom given the same benefit of the doubt as the Peace Corps.\ Much to his credit, Captain William Donahoe, a self-professed \right-winger gave a surprisingly unbiased, impartial, and accurate per- spective of the Grenada in- vasion. Funding for the renovation project has come from a capital fund drive from parishoners. So far, the members have pledged $650,000 according to Father John Provost, Pastor of St. John's. . The first phase is already paid for, he explained, but money for the later phases in the project is still needed. Excess surplus funds will be invested and renovations will be completed as more money is made available. The church is presently researching grants and foundations as possible sources for further funds. According to Father Provost, the congregation of St. John's consists of 1,300 families, over 75 percent of whom have par- ticipated in the pledge drive. The campaign and the con- struction project has reunited the parishoners and has given them a renewed sense of spirituality and enthusiasm. · \This building has united the people ... they have a real love and loyalty to it,\ the Pastor remarked. He believes that partly because of the campaign, more projects have been started in the parish. People are meeting each other and getting to know each other better, the various functions in the church are well attended, a nursery has been set up for children on Sundays, and the idea of a Bible school is being di'Scussed. Captain Donahoe explained the military operation as well. About 1,900 men of the U.S. Marine Corps, Army, Army Rangers and eighty-two Air- borne Division composed the force. The invasion occurred only forty-eight hours after the order was given. The planning, therefore, was sound overall, but inadequate in certain areas. The most accurate maps that the soldiers possessed were road maps and tourist guides. The operation, however, was \quick and accomplished its · objectives.\ Panel Pol icy Reiterated: The troops first captured the airport area and moved from there. Although the casualty count is being questioned, Donahoe said, \Even one person is too much, but com- pared to other situations, the loss was minimal.\ The operation \restored law and order\ and at the present time, the bulk of the U.S. forces have left the island. Elections in Grenada will be held in the near future, but the nation's economy is in turmoil due to the disruption of normal business and the primary industry, tourism. Wood Justffies Position Captain Donahoe's other remarks regarded the notable lack of press coverage of the invasion. The news media was not notified and later ex.sluded from the procedure for the three general reasons of safety, ef- ficiency, and security. There is By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Staff In a recent interview, Director of Residence Life Dave Wood reiterated the policy toward paneling in independent campus-owned dormitories. \We go to great lengths to allow the students to per- sonalize their own rooms as much as possible, however, the rooms must also be maintained with minimal wear and tear,\ stated Wood. \In order to set a consistent policy, it became necessary to remove all paneling from in- dependent student rooms,\ explained Wood. \In the past, we permitted the students to put up their own paneling, which resulted in disaster and much damage to the rooms. We (Residence Life) have a responsibility to maintain the rooms from year to year. The cost of such annual repairs grew too high.'' Presently, only three in- dependent rooms are known to Wood which are paneled. However, annual room in- spections, which will be cond- voted from October 29 to November 9 should bring to light any additional paneled rooms. During the Christmas break the paneling in these rooms will be removed. \The rooms will be replastered and repainted before the students return,\ added Wood. Fraternity houses which make useof dormitory space will be unaffected by the policy due to ''the nature of these organizations. Certain space in the residence halls is dedicated to these organization:;;\ which The Union College Philosophy Department is pleased to announce the first COLLOQUIUM of Fall Term 1984 TEACHING SEDITION FROM DILEMMAS OFFEMIN~TPEDAGOGY Alison Jaggar • Douglas College, Rutgers Univ. Friday, November 2 3:30p.m .. An colloquia are held in the H~anities Bldg,, Rm. 213 RECEPTIONS AFTERWARDS HELD IN HUMANITIES LOUNGE Colloquia are open to the public; for further information call Marianne Snowden o (518) 370-6376 are presumed to remain in these locales for long periods of time. . \Often a member of a fraternity will reside in the same room for three years.\ As a result of this stability, \greater flexibility is given.\ This is in contrast to in- dependent rooms which are subject /to annual turnover. \The likelihood of someone living in the same room two years in a row is small,\ commented Wood. • On the issue of shelving, another potential source of room damage, the policy \will be reviewed.\ There is already an existing policy on lofts (all must be free standing). \To be honest, we . have not allowed paneling to go up in the past four to five years. About three years ago, we ripped out most of the paneling that-did exjst in the dorms. Supposedly, all ofit was removed,\ stated Wood. Restricting freedom in room design \is one of the worst aspects of the job; it is very unpleasant. We want to help the students as much as possible, and to help them to grow. Occasionally, distasteful issues arrive. We try, however, to find the best solution possible to thes~ problems. Actually, ac- cordmg to a survey taken in the dorms last year, most students at Union are happier in their accommodations than students attending other colleges.\ ·

in the it adds igible for building, were from Reilly, had of s united a real it.\ which ~mldhave of the hear the rising to the spire, 1,700 at \there ~w of the ~sence of descent to church Provost, John's over par- ~e drive. con- reunited given ense of the ~eal love Pastor that been are getting ~tter, the church has on a Bible .. • in of . r of a in the ~ars.\ As given.\ to in- are someone two small,\ urce of cy \will already ofts (all \To be allowed past ut three of in the was in room worst is very help the possible, grow. issues ~. to find to ac- in the in their . CONCONOIENSJ.\: NfJJ'emher I, /984 D Phi Penalized By DAVE MARIN staff Delta Phi fraternity hS!S been placed on social probation for the remainder of this academic term by the Office of Students because of an incident that occurred on September 27. According to Assistant Dean of Students, Robert Massa, the fraternity held a party on that day for which they had been denied approval. last year and part of the previous year so there is \no excuse for pleading ignorance. n President of Delta Phi, Steve Cole, said he believed that Dean Massa was \using us as an example\ and punishing them far more harshly than the in- fraction deserved. To this charge Massa replied, \D Phi is not - a fraternity known for causing trouble so there'd be no reason to make an example of them.\ Page ,1 Two days before the party the fraternity requested approval for the party and following his refusal to do so, Delta Phi proceeded to host ~n all-campus Massa added that he could have charged them with two student conduct code violations (section rx: failure to comply with the proper requests of college officials, section XI: behavior which constitutes a violation of rules, regulations, or policies specified by college departments) but believed it unnecessary. Assistant P\rofessor of Sociol'ogy Martha Huggins helped found the Union College Undergraduate Review of the Humanities and Social Sciences. \0 _Phi is not a fraternity· known for causing trouble so there'd be no reason to make an exam.ple of them.\ Union Journal Published ·Dean Massa party anyway. The school's social event policy is clear, states Massa, and requires five day prior notice of large par- ties. He says that he would not approve the request, but agreed to let them hold a small party for a few guests. Apparently Delta Phi ignored the directive, according to Massa, who says that he received complaints from neighbors about the noise, and Security reported that there was far more than a small gathering. Dean Massa explained that the five day notice is required for scheduling so security can hire additional help for any particular evening if they need to, sq.ying, \It is not an ar- bitrary requirement.\ He also said the policy was enforced Massa says he believes-·he hiis a good working relationship between his office and the fraternities, especially the college-owned ones, because of his more frequent dealings with them. At the present time, Delta Phi is the only fraternity on probation as opposed to four at this time last year. In January, Massa will meet with Cole and barring any in- cidents will most likely remove the fraternity probation status at that time. The effect of being on social probation is to remove Delta Phi's right to have parties large enough to require registration. Massa concluded, ''It was really indi3cretion on the part of the officers of D Phl-I can't ignore .that.\ and \I wanted to inake it clear that I'm not fooling around when I say you've got to register a party five days in advance.\ By DOUG LANDON The second edition of the Union Colleg~ Undergraduate Review of the Humanities and Social Sciences was introduced . to the campus community at a reception in Milano Lounge l;:1st Tuesday. The Union ·College Undergraduate Review of the Humanities and Social Sciences is .an academic journal Jounded at Union two years ago by students studying Methods of Social Research with Martha Huggins, assistant professor of sociology. The students: Dave Wollin '83 and Win Thurlow '84, \had done some individual creative research,\ Huggins recalls, and became enthused about the prospect of publishing a journal. The two social sciences majors combined efforts with Jeff Van Detta '84, a classics Debate· Rerun -Di·sc·ussed By DAVE MARIN Staff Last Thursday, October 25, the Student Forum and Phi Beta Kappa sponsored \A not so instant replay of the 1984 Presidential debates.\ The presentation and open discussion was held in the Pub and was attended by over sixty students, faculty. and ad- ministration members. Using a video tape of the first Presidential debate, professors Stanley Kaminsky-'( philosophy) and Charles Tidmarch (political science) commented on parts of the debate and led discussion of various issues. The topics of discussion revolved around style, presentation, and format rather than the particular campaign issues. Both Kaminsky and Tid- march commented on the in- credible lack of clarity surrounding the facts. They said that the facts were twisted by both of the candidates and in some cases the participants simply ignored the facts. To Kaminsky, at least, this seemed to be the issue of most im- portance relevant to the debates and the campaign in general. Throughout the evening he focused on logical fallacies as central to the presentations of both Mondale and Reagan. The contradictions on the facts and in the analysis of them led Professors Klein and Lewis, both of the Department of Economics· to deliberate on whether tbe intent was to discuss substance or logic. There was a consensus that the press tends to pick up on the statements which are \catchy rather than the ones that are important. Kaminsky gave as an example, Mondale's tur- naround of the now famous \There you go again\ conunent by Reagan which he felt was hardly the most significant event of the debate. Yet, this statement was highlighted as if it were of importance to the campaign. This may be largely the fault of the American viewing public which indicates that is what they want to hear, according to Kaminsky. Professor Tidmarch, who now teaches a seminar course on media and politics in America was more interested in the image portrayed by the can- didates-both of themselves and of the nation. For example, Tidmarch believes that Mon- dale tried to exact a sense of gravity and seriousness about his candidacy and make htinself look llke a leader. Furthermore, Tidmarch notes, Mondale made an appeal about the future of America when, in fact, em- pirically it is true that .voters often look retrospectively. The evening was deemed a success by all involved. Many students and professors in the audience participated in the .,_ discussion. President of the Student Forum Steve Benson says he was very happy with the outcome and plans to make the discussions a regular event, hopefully once per month. Sl NS-Serials 'Information System-is now up and ready for use by any student or faculty member. The Sl NS database contains records of Schaffer Library's current serials holdings and approximately half of the retrospective serials holdings. A serial is usually- issued at regular intervals and numbered consecutively. Information on each serial in the database includes; title, language, format (paper or microform), location of the journal in the library, and holdings in- formation (what issues we own), plus additional data. The-database can be easily accessed and searched for any term ina I on the campus whk:h accesses the Hewlett-Packard. Wben a user searches Sl NS, the user enters either the specific title of the serial, or, of the complete title is unknown, keyword/s are entered at the terminal. Each serial record has been processed to find all the keywords in the title, subtitle, and Library of Congress ~ubject headings. ' Although SINS is ready for use, the database is continuously being updated and enlarged. In- formation on Schaffer Library's retrospective serials holdings has not been completely entered. Continuatiotl notes, subject headings, indexing information, and recent title changes are being added. Instructions on accessing and searching the Sl NS database will be available at the terminals in Schaffer Library. Also, within the SINS interactive search program, instructions guide the user through the search. Please ask a librarian if you need any assistance with Sl NS. major, and faculty advisors Martha Huggms and Thomas Warger. The most recent edition is a compilation of six research papers in the fields of humanities and social sciences written by students at Union and other colleges. Pla.ns for this year's Review are already underway, spearheaded by student editor Phii Bean '86: One of Bean's primary accomplishments thus far has been the formulation of a policy statement designed to broaden student knowledge and increase faculty support. \The professors did not fully understand what our purpose was,\ Bean says. \This was damaging our ability to get a good pool of articles.\ The stat'ement explains that not all research papers that receive high grades are ready for publication. Writing style might need improvement or technical jargon may be un- derstood only by those for whom the paf)ers were· originally intended. · The Review seeks ''any'· un- dergraduate academic papers of high quality which exhibit potential for publication in an exclusively undergraduate journal,\ according to the statement. \We are not · soliciting editorial essays or creative writing,\ it continues. \We also request that sub- missions minimize graphics and statistics, as our emphasis is upon the quality of the written argwnent or discussion.'' The number of individuals involved in the journal's publication has been expanded, both on faculty and student . levels. Four faculty members now sit on the editorial board, namely: Adrian Frazier of the English department, Christie Sorwn of classics, Huggins of sociology, and Warger, who has been appointed assistant to the vice president for academic affairs. JoAnn Feeney serves as as~istant student editor under Bean. Vice President for Academic Affairs Tfi'omas D'Andrea praises the e\ditorial board. \we can be proud of our students and faculty for this program for sti.rpulating serious scholarship and dissemination of the results among undergraduate students,\ he says. Both Sortun and Feeney plan to be on terms abroad this winter, and consequently will not play active roles in the Review at that time. Bean stresses that \Professor Sorum has been extremely helpful in the formulation of the policy statement. She has been available to me at a moment's notice.\ Feeney ret:urned to Union early this fall to work on the upcoming edition, and has ''put in a lot of time and worked -very hard,\ Huggins notes. Also, students Dave Beal, Seth ·Anderson and Alex Modica have been appointed staff members to assist the editorial board and contribute to the Review. Huggins, presently the only faculty member from her division involved in the publication, \would feel good if we could recruit another faculty advisor from the social sciences.\ Another feature new to the journal this year is the im- plementation of a process in which anonymous faculty members will serve as \readers\ or \referees\ of papers submitted for publication. These professors volunteer their time to critique the papers and suggest im- provements in the two main areas of general style and in- troduction. A call for papers and copy of the Review are sent to eighteen schools from Maine to North Carolina in an attempt to obtain submissions. Noting that this effort resulted in papers by two Haverford students and one Bryn Mawr student being in- cluded ·in the··latest edition, Bean says, \We are puilding a reputation outside Uniori.\ . This week D'Andrea is sen- ding copies of the Review to a number of deans in the Nor- theast, requesting that they encourage their students to consider submitting material for the journal. Bean also points out that this year the \best\ freshman preceptorial paper from fall term will be published. At Union, input and papers are enthusiastically welcomed. Faculty members may submit any papers they deem worthy, and students may have their papers considered without faculty approval, simply by mailing them to the Union College Undergraduate Review of the Htunanities and Social Sciences, Box 2590, Carnegie Hall. Professors for whom the papers were written will be consulted before actual publication, however. Bean adds that \We are open to professors' suggestions. I am . more than willing to sit down and discuss policy with them.\ Regarding the reception last Tuesday, Huggins believes the event had a \better turnout qualitatively than last time.\ Several administrators and senior people on campus were present. Each person at the reception received a copy of the Review, and others were later distributed to students and faculty. About 300 copies are produced annually, but Bean hopes to increase this nUIIl.ber in future years. \It would be nice · if we could get enough funding to publish a few more copies.\ The 300 copies, including photocopying and mailing charges, cost about $2,000, with funding provided by the Internal Education Foundation (IEF)! Huggins is reacting favorably to the changes and expansions in the Review. \We think the new format is better/' she says. Continued on page 7 E N ro 1... ro ~ .s:: +- <!J .0 ro N w > .0 0 0 -.

Page4 CONCOROIFNSI.S~ Nm·emher/, 198./. >- -\<:: <J) c: E 1'0 ~ >- ..... \- t1) ..J >- ..a 0 +- ! l 0 .s:::. .f' ,. c. Four Unio_n alumni spoke on their careers in the communi cations field last Tuesday, October 23. Career Advice Given r.ontinued from page 1 ot the\' New York City ad- vertising firm of McAffrey and McCall, Bernhard had quite a varied professional past to boast about. At first a naval pilot, he also worked for Tfme Inc., publishing for nine years. Bernhard stTessed the dedication one must have for the demanding advertising world. He also pointed out that a person's \central talent or interest should be at the heart of their profession.\ He added, \It is no flm to be an artist in a bank; there is no joy on the periphery.\ To work in advertising, Bernhard stressed four necessary skills: Marketing, research, math and reasoning, and writing and designing. His emphasis was placed on writing skills \because if you can write you are a rare bird in America,\ said Bernhard. One needs skills and dedication to the advertising world to enjoy it. \If you are not having fun you are really not going to be very good at it (your job),\ said Bernhard. If one likes constant variety and tough and changing challenges, noted Bernhard, then the advertising I\ealm may be for you. Ber- nhard was also kind enough to loan some advertising books to the Career Development Center All four panelists stressed the importance of a willingness to bide some time in one job while working on 'landing the one one truly wants. for students to use. The fourth speaker was Peter King of the class of 1949. King also graduated with a BA in English from Union, as did the other three speakers. King is chairman of the board of Levy, King and White, an advertising agency in Buffalo, ~ew York. King gave a creat1ve talk on what he · believes are ten · essentials for the individual ·in the job market. These·are his so-called Ten Commandments: 1) Keep Your Options Open; 2 l Keep Your Expectations Reasonable; 3) Get A Job; 4) Be On The Cutting Edge Of New Technology; 5) Move On When You Are Ready; 6) Be Flexible; 7) Do Anything and Everything They Let You Do; 8) Be An Opportunist-Fill Voids; 9) If You Are SURE You Are Needed . . . Make Them Prove It; 10) Do Good Work. King also noted areas which he believes are expanding fields for the advertising world: Cable and satellite television, video cassette recorders, and com- puters. All these areas will need bright and innovative personnel within the near future. In essence, all four panelists stress-ed the importance of a willingness to bide some time in one job while working· on lan- ding the one one truly wants. Internships are also valuable as is any experience, stressed the speakers. Researching a company before an interview is vital as well. This latter point shows that the applicant has a real interest in working for that company which is important to an interviewer. Admissions Revises Book By ANDREA BUGBEE Staff The Union College Admissions Office has recently indulged in a new 1984-85 View Book. Though the publication is renewed every year ·to ac7 commodate changing figures and statistics, this year brings a new book twice the size and depth of those released iri the past. Joanna Broda, Associate Dean of Admissions, discussed the new format. Although Broda was unwilling to justify such an extravagant publication being created by an outside publishing company instead of Union's Public Relations Office, she did hospitably agree to describe the physical changes involved. The book has been expanded to accomodate a more :in-depth description of Union's faculty, activities, and course selec- tions. · Broda added that, \ ... more visual shots have been included to capture in picture form the spirit and sense of community here at u-nion.'' Moreov~r, the top margin of each page is de-curated with interesting historial facts about the college in an effort to integrate the Union of today with the tradition of its past. The combined changes described make this year's View Book interesting not only to prospective students and their families, but to current Union students as well. Broda se~ms confident that the im- provements made can only lead to success in attracting new students .. Esragh Motahar Joins Faculty By BETH LEVINE Staff Professor Esragh Motahar fs a new addition to tile Economics Department this year. This term he is teaching two sections of Economics 10. He ~ecognizes the importance of relating theoretical economic concepts to current issues. However, the investments made in his past are of significance as well. Originally from Iran, he was one of seven to win a national scholarship to go to un- dergraduate school at the University of London. Although he was alre~dy in several schools in Iran, the unique opportunity to attend college in another country, all expenses paid, could not be passed up. Before he could start college, on~ year was spent proving his high school credentials because no other diplomas were ac- cepted. With no schoeling in con- versational English, it ·was difficult for him to speak idiomatically correct, but he quickly learned. Although it was exciting to be in another country, experiencing another • culture, he was able to return home only once in six years and missed his family very much. He . worked towards his college degree and master's from 1967 to 1972, when he went back to Iran to complete his compulsory military service. During the summers, he went through training. The rest of the year was spent teaching. He said it was very interesting to change roles so quickly. \One day ;you're the 'boss,' the next day you are taking orders.\ After four years of service, he went to graduate school at Johns Hopkins from 1976to 1980. He is currently finishing his dissertation. His topic is investment theories and the factors that account for the fluctuations in businessmen's investments in equipment, buildings, etc . After teaching at SUNY, Motahar likes the small, in- timate size of Union. Hk is disappointed that th~ new CUE proposal was !JOt· accepted by the students. He feels that he • could develop a better lecture in 65 minutes. 50 minutes hardly gives him time to present an argument and put up diagrams when he is forced to stop abruptly. The day's lecture· cannot start as abruptly, there is backtracking, and time is not put to its best use. He has taken courses under the trimester system, but right now he does not know about teaching them . Future plans Nenterm he will be teaching · Economics 138, Quantitative Methods in Economics. For spring term, he has designed a new course, Contemporary Topics in Macroeconomics. It will be an \uppef level course covering current issues, such as unemployment and interest rates. · Professor Motahar' s favorite spert is squash, but you might also see him bicycling, walking, and taking photographs. Union welcomes Professor Motahar, and wishes him an enjoyable and succes~ful stay. .. c: 10 N c: 10 u 10 !.. 10 u >- J:J 0 .... 0 .r: a. Professor Esragh Motahar is a new face in the Economics Department this fall. Forum Reviews Skeller .-----C-o-nc_o_r-di-:-e-n-si-s-:-is_s_e_e-=-k-=-in-g------. '\' writers, photographers, artists and poets. Submit name, box no. and phone no. to Box 2577 See us at the Northway Mall/Off Price Center: Nov. 14th thru Dec. 23rd \THE JEWELRY GALLERIES OF ALBANY\ \Where gold & silver are always half-price\ We feature 14K solid gold & sterling Silver (Sold by weight} o Chains\ Bracelets o Charms o Rings\ Earrings Thousands of pieces to choose from year round! Diamonds and Precious Stones • Austrian Crystal o Turquoise\ Fashion Jewelry November 7 & 8 Wed. & Thurs.· 9 a.m. 4 p.m. Union College in Carnegie Center Hall cash, Check, ViSA, Mastercard & lav-a-way Plan Stop by and see us for 50% Savings & <;;ave ad for free gift with purchase of $20 or more By TONY DUNAIF Staff The Student Forum met last Monday, October 29, and forth~ first time in five years all the basic by-laws have been established. The Forum quic\kly and succinctly discussed the issues at hand. Closing hours The first order of business concerned the one o'clock closing of the Rathskeller and the Dutch Hollow Pub. Evidently, the administration has a number of qualms about keeping the two drinking establishments open past one o • clock in the morning. They believe that business after one o'clock ri'\arkedly falls off and that it makes little sense to pay people to keep the bars open for only a few patrons. Secondly, the administration believes that the hours past one o'clock are when trouble occurs and the school does not want to increase its liability. Lastly, they believe that it is not the school's job to provide alcohol. The Forum will consider the college's ob- jections and will consider disputing them. Liberal learning The Fomm then discussed the Academic Affairs Council's possible revamping of the liberal learning course evaluation system. The issue was first noticed when the AAC wanted to change an Anthropology course from \B\ course to a \D\ course. Professors in the Language Department then complained, saying that this would ,~ubtract in number of students taking language courses for it would enable them to get arourtcr the language requirement. The AAC however, has not yet reached a decision. Student input A large part of the meeting was devoted to a major matter ,.. of concern: The Forum's opinion that there is a lack of faculty willingness to listen to students surrounding major campus issues. The Forwn plans to devote a good amount of time to look into· and, if necessary, remedy this situation. ] :: l : I • ' t I . .. ...

Page4 CONCORDfENSI.\: Noremher I, 1984 ~!. >- .:,(, i/) ·c E 10 ~ >- ..... .... ltl ..J >- ..0 0 +- 0 .c 0.. Four Unio.n a.lumni spoke on their careers in the communications field last Tuesday, October23. Career Advice Given Continued from page 1 of the~ New York City ad- vertising firm of McAffrey and McCall, Bernhard had quite a varied professional past to boast about. At first a naval pilot, he also worked fm; Tfme Inc., publishing for nine years. Bernhard st'fessed the dedication ene must have for the demanding ·advertising world. He also pointed out that a person's \central talent or interest should beat the heart of their profession.\ He added, \It is no fun to be an artist in a bank; there is no joy on the periphery.'' To work in advertising, Bernhard stressed four necessary skills: Marketing, research, math and reasoning, and writing and designing. His emphasis was placed on writing skills \because ifyou can write you are a rare bird in America,\ said Bernhard. One needs skills and : dedication to the advertising . world to enjoy it. \If you are not · having fun you are really not gomgto be very good at it (your job),\ said Bernhard. If one likes constant variety and tough. and changing challenges, noted Bernhard, then the advertising realm may be for you. Ber- nhard was also kind enough to loan some advertising books to the Career i)evelopment Center All four pa:nelists. stressed the importance of a willingness to bide smne time in one job while working on landing the one one truly wants. for students to use. The fourth speaker was Peter King of the class of 1949. King also graduated with a BA in English from Union, as did the other three speakers. King is chairman of the board of Levy, King and White, an advertising agency in Buffalo, New York. King gave a creative talk on . wbat he· believes are ten . , ess·entials for· the ·tndividual :in , the· job market. These.-are his so-called Ten Commandment~?: 1) Keep Your Options Open; 2) Keep Your Expectations Reasonable; 3) Get A Job; 4) Be On The Cutting Edge Of New Technology; 5) Move On When You Are Ready; 6) Be Fle:!Qble; 7) DG Anything and Everything They Let You Do; 8) Be An Opportunist~Fill Voids; 9) If You Are SURE You Are Needed ... Make Them Prove It; 10) Do Goed Work. King also noted areas which he believes are expanding fields for the advertising world: Cable and satellite television, video cassette recorders, and com- puters. All these areas will need bright ahd innovative personnel within the near future. In essence, all four panelists stressed the importance of a willingness to bide some time in one job while working ·on lan- ding the one one truly wants. Internships are also valuable as is any experience, stressed the speakers. Researching a company before an interview is vital as well. This latter point shows that the applicant has a real interest in working for that company which is important to an interviewer. Admissions Revises Bo.ok By ANDREA BUGBEE Staff ·to justify such an extravagant here at u-nion.\ Moreov~r, the publication being created by an top margin of each page · is outside publishing company dernrated with interesting instead of Union's Public historial facts about the college The Union College Relations Office, she did in an effort to integrate the Admissions Office has recently hospitably agree to describe the Union of today with the indulged in a new 1984-85 View physical changesinvolved. The tradition of its past. Book. Though the publication is book has been expanded to The combined changes renewed every year -to ac-: accomodate a more in-depth described make this year's commodate changing figures description of· Union's faculty, View Book interesting not only and statistics, this year brings a activities, and course selec- to prospective ·students and new book twice the size and tions. · their families, but to current depth ofthose released iri the Broda added that, \ ... more Union students as welL Broda past. Joanna Broda, Associate visual shots have been included se-ems confident that the im- Dean of Admissions, discussed to capture in picture form the . provements made can only lead the new format. spirit and sense of community to success in attracting new Although Broda was unwilling students .. Esragh Motahar ~ . Joins Faculty By BETH LEVIN-E Staff Professor Esragh Motahar fs a new addition to the Economics Department this year. This term he is teaching two sections of Economics 10. He recognizes the importance of relating · theoretical economic concepts to current issues. However, the investments made in his past ar~ of significance as well. Originally from Iran, he was one of seven to win a national scholarship t:o go to un- dergracduate school at the University of London. Although he was alreq.Q.y in several schools m Iran, the tmique opportunity to attend college in another courttry, all expenses paid, could not be passed up. Before he could start college, on~ year was spent proving his high school credentials because no other diplomas were ac- cepted. . With no schooling in con- versational English, it ·was difficult ~or him to speak idiomatically correct, but he quickly learned. Although it was exciting to be in another country, experiencing another • culture, he was able to return home only once in six years and missed his family very much. He - worked towards his college degree and master's from 1967 to 1972; when he went back to Iran to complete his compulsory military service. During the summers, he went through-training. The rest of the year was spent teaching. He said it was very interesting to change roles so quickly. \One day ¥ou're the 'boss,' the next day you are taking orders.\ After four years of service, he went to graduate school at Johns l!opkinsfrom 1976 to 19aO.. He is currently finishing his dissertation. His topic is investment theories and the factors that account for the fluctuations in businessmen's investments in equipment, buildings, etc . Afte.r teaching at SUNY, Motahar likes the small, in- timate size of Union. H~ js disappointed that th~ .new CUE proposal was pot· accepted by the. students. He feels that he • could dev'elop a better lecture in 65 minutes. 50 minutes bardly gives him time to p~:esent an argument and put up diagrams when he . is forced to stop abruptly. The day's lecture· cannot start as abruptly, there is backtrac~ing, and time is not put to its best use. He has taken courses under the trimester system, but right now h~ does not ·know about teaching them; Future plans . Next term he will be teaching - Economics 138, Quantitative Methods in· Economics. For spring term, he has designed a new course, Contemporary Topics in Macroeconomics. It will be an ''upper level cours~ covering current issues, such as unemployment and interest rates. · · Professor Motahar' s favorite sport is squash, but you might also see him bicycling, walking, and taking photographs. Union welcomes Professor Motahar, and wishes him an enjoyable and succes~ful stay, c: ro N c: ro u ro .... ro u >- .0 0 .... 0 .t: 0.. Professor Esragh Motahar is a new face in the Economics Department this fall. ~-----C-o-nc_o_r_di_e_n_si-s~is_s_e_e 7 k~in-g------,o writers, photographers, artists and poets. Forum Reviews Skeller Submit name, box no. and phone no~ to Box 2577 See us at the Northway Mall/Off Price Center: N.ov. 14th thru Dec. 23rd \THE JEWELRY GALLER-IES OF ALBANY\ \Where gold & silver are always half-price\ We feature 14K solid gold & sterling Silver (Sold by weight) a Chains\ Bracelets • Charms\ Rings·• Earrings Thousands of pieces to choose from year ro,und! Diamonds and Precious Stones ~Austrian Crystal o Turquoise\ Fashion Jewelry November 7 & 8 Wed. & Thurs.· 9 a.m.·4 p.m. Union College in Carnegie Center Han Cash, Check, VI SA, Mastercard & Lay-a-.way Plan Stop by and see us for SO% Savings & ~ave ad for free gift with purchase of $20 or more ByTONYDUNAIF , Staff The Student Forum met last Monday, October 29, and for thE: first time in five years all the basic by-laws have been established. The Forum quic\kly and succinctly discussed the issues at hand. Closing.hours The first order of business concerned the one o'clock closing of the Rathskeller and the Dutch Hollow Pub. Evidently, the administration has a number of qualms about keeping the two drinking establishments open -past one o'clock in the morning. They believe that business after one o'clock :ri\arkedly falls off and course to a \D\ course. Professors in the Language Department then complained, saying that this would '>Subtract in number of students taking language courses for it woW.d enable them to get arourHf the language requirement. The AAC however, has not yet reached a decision. that it makes little sense to pay people to keep the bars open for only a few patrons~ Secondly, the administration believes that the hours past one o'clock are when trouble occurs and the school does not want to increase its liability. Lastly, they believe that it is not the school's job to provide alcohol. The Forum will consider the college's ob- jections and will consider Student input disputing them. A large part of the meeting Liberal learning was devoted to a major matter .- of concern: The Forum's The Forum then discussed the opinion that there is a lack of Academic Affairs Council's faculty willingness to listen to possible revamping of the students surrounding major liberal learning course campus issues. evaluation system. The issue The Forum plans to devote a was first noticed when the AAC good amount of time to look into· wanted to change an and, if necessary, remedy this Anthropology course from \B\ situation. ' ' I I I. ...

at is n- is in . a It ~e y. t ~ c: !(} N c: !(} u !(} ... !(} u > .!) 0 .... 0 .r: a. Mountebanks Presents Jacq~es Brei Is Alive Nov. 8, 9, 10 and Well Nov. 13-17 ·and Living in Paris at 8pm m the Nott Tickets $3--Students $4--Faculty $5--Gen~ral Public UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS M.B.A . Students of All Majors and Fields Invited Come to our meetings to hear about our M.B.A. a~d Ph.D. Programs and to ask any questions about the · - curriculum, admission, financial aid, and career op- portunities available in the' following fields of manage- ment: Finance Economics Marketing Accounting General Management Health Administration Public and NonProfit ·Human Resources Management Science Policy Friday, November 2, 1984 Contact Career Development Center for Sign-ups ('ON( 'OR/)//:'.'V.'ii.C.,', ,VOI'emher I. lf.JIU Page 5 LEGE SPEAKERS FORU~l presents The Juggling & Comedy of ·MICHAEL DAVIS *JUGGLES AXES, 80WUNG BALLS, EGGS, CLEAVERS, APPLES, PING-PONG BALLS, AND MORE ... ic'SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE (7 TIM~S), LETTERMAN, CARSON, HBO, 20/20, \SUGAR BABI'ES\ (BROADWAY), RINGLING BROS. CIRCUS, RADIO CITY. *JUGGLING AND HILARIOUS COMEDY COMBINED!!! Friday~ November 9,1984 8:00p.m. MEMORIAL CHA-PEL TICKETS: CARNEGIE HALL BOX OFF~ICE- *ONLY* $1.00 STUDENTS WITH I.D. $3,00 FOR PUBLIC MflNHf\ fiN - ~)t(~IH~~~~ 605 Union Street JOIN US FOR SUNDAY BRUNCH 11 A.M. __:, 3 P. M. OPEN 1 DAYS A WEEK LUNCH-DINNER-FINGER FOODS Serving 11 :30 am-1 :00 am Haircut /Design Perms Colour facials Waxing Make· Up Body Wraps Nail Lengthening Our designers have been trained by SASSOON of London and JINGlES., -N .. Y .C~ on Ti.H~$day & Wednesday or.~ly wHh ~aymond or Tija Gooding Skin Systems 322 State St •r Schenectcdy, N .. Y. 1230 \\\

he at is Y, jg by he in op en . It as or s ~e ~t g s 0 r s c: tO N c: tO u tO 1.. tO u > .a 0 +- 0 .r= 0. Mountebanks . . ,.. .,.. - Presents· ,... . -·-. 0 .. , lr Ja,cq~Jes Brei 2JJ!fj .. ls Alive Nov. 8, 9, 10 and Well ·Nov. 13-17 ·and Living ln Paris at 8 pm m the Nott Tickets ·$3-- Students $4-m'Fac.ulty $5--General Public ' UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS M.B.A . Students of All Majors a·~d Fields In~ited Come to our meetings to hear about o~r M.B.A. a~d Ph.D. Programs and to ask any questions about the · - curriculum, admission, financial aid, and career op- portunities available in the-following fields of manage- _ ment: Finance Economics Marketing Accounting General Manag~ment Health Administration Public and NonProfit Hum<~,n Resources Management Science Policy Friday, November 2, 1984 Contact Caree; Developmeat Center for Sign-ups CONCORJ)/J:'.'VS/.c,·, :Vm·emher I. !98J PageS ,. \· UNION COLLEGES prese.nts The Juggling & Comedy of ·MICHAEL DAVIS .AKERS FORU)J! *JUGGLES AXES, BOWLING BALLS, EGGS, CLEAVERS, A~PLES, PING-PONG BALLS, AND MORE, .• *SATURDAY NIGHT ~lVE (7 TIM~:S), LETTERMAN, CARSON, HBO, 20/20, \SUGAR BABIES\(BROADWAY) RINGLING BROS. CIRCUS, RADIO CITY. *JUGGLING AND HILARIOUS COMEDY COMBINED! ! ! Friday~ November 9, 1s·s4 B:·OO p.m. 'MEMORIAl CHAPEL TJCKETS: CARNEGIE HALL . BOX OFFICE .. *ONLY* $1.00 STUDENTS WITH I.D. $3.00 FOR PUBLIC MfiNH~ flN - ~~~IH~~~~ 605 Union Street JOI·N US FOR SUNDAY BRUNCH 11 A.M. _:. 3 P.M. OPEN 1 DAYS A WEEK LUNCH-DINNER-FINGER FOODS Serving 11:30 am-1 :00 am WlbB Hf Haircut I Design Perms Colour Fac:icds Waxing Make .. up Body Wraps Nail Lengthening. Our designers have been trained by SASSOON of London and JINGLESn-N .. Y .C .. on Tuesday & Wednesday only with Raymond or Tiju Gooding. Skin Systems 322 State St .. , Schenectady, N.Y. 1230 · ' ..,.

Page6 CON( 'OR/)ft:NSI.~~ No,.emha I. /98./ :r·tt=:teewe=:rn::vn=m±,.. • ·s.,mawm w• FEATURES. n Fast For Others By ELLEN M. LAWTON Staff \We are working together to do something about the problem of hunger for ourselves and for our country. The work is hard, but feod doesn't come if we sit at home.\ -Manuela Candido, president of a women's gar- dening collective in Mozam- bique. This year at least 15 million people will die of hunger-related causes. More than half will be children under the age of five. Like Manuela, most of these people are working hard to cembat bunger. But they lack access to land, water, credit, tools, and training. training for war refugees from El Salvador;· -Tools and veterinary supplies for farming cooperatives in Nicaragua. Why fast? Fasting is seen as a symbolic way of demonstrating concern for the world's hungry. It can· take on many forms, from skipping one or all meals, to just giving up snacks, to eating a \simple\ meal of rice and soup. Most importantly, it helps bring the issue of world hunger within our grasp. Join Oxfam America's Fast for a World Harvest and demonstrate your concern for the world's hungry. By skipping a meal or fasting for a day, and donating your food money to Oxfam, you can help make a difference. Perfect Your Skills How can we help? On November 15, groups and in- dividuals across the_. country will be fasting for a day, and donating their food money to Oxfam America. Oxfam America is a non-profit development agency which funds self-help development projects in Asia, Africa, and Latin America,, During the past 10 years, Fast part-icip~nts have donated nearly $3 million to help Oxfam fund projects like these: To learn more about the Fast and Oxfam America, _look fo literature tables in Carnegie on Tuesday, Nov. 6, and Thursday, Nov. 8. Sign up for the Fast will be the following Monday and . Tuesday (Nov.ll andl2) during mealtime at the following locations: West, Hale, Skellar, and Pub. Students on a meal plan will be able to pledge any or all of their meals for Thur- sday the 15th, and Food Service will in turn donate this money to Oxfam America. Students not on the meal plan, as well as faculty and staff, are en- couraged to participate as well, By SONIA SOFFIN and JACKIE JONES Staff Have you ever wondered what skills would be beneficial to you after w!len you graduate from Union? Recently Joanne Tobeissen of the Career Development Center, attended the Eastern College Placement Officer Annual Meeting. Two women, Charlotte Shea, Ph.D. of Mount Holyoke College and Barbara Reinhold, Ed.D., of Smith College presented a report of their findings entitled, THE PREREQUISITES AND MANIFESTATIONS OF SUCCESS: A STUDY OF SMITH AND MOUNT HOLYOKE GRADUATES. A sample of 410 women participated. These women graduated from Smith and Mt. Holyoke during the years of 1960 to 1980. They had received various degrees with the majority of them being in Math- Sci.ence, Humanities and Language Arts. The study found which ·skills were most important in college and which were most important in the working world. Although intellectual curiosity and love of reading were rated the highest, . as quatities necessary for success in school, these were not the same attributes that determine success for these women today. They felt that self-confidence and the abilities to speak and write well were the most beneficial to them. Also ranked highly were listening and social skills, as well as problem solving. These were skills developed in college, but the women studies did not use them to the fullest potential until after graduation. Joanne Tobeissen wants the students of Union to take ad- vantage of the opportunities offered to them to perfect these skills. Due to our generally The Bid Box By PAT VIRNICH IFC Male freshmen have no doubt heard about the infamous Bid Box. Many ask, \Is that where I bid for the Union girl of my dreams?\ No, it is a device, whereby the freshmen can take an active part in the fraternity rush. The primary intent of the box is that a freshman male can choose in order -of preference the fraternity that he would like to be apart of. He must simply write his first three choices on a ballot and place it in the box. Informally, this stands as a voting procedure that preserves a certain degree of impartiality. Freshmen, who for one reason or another, have been reluctant to show favoritism towards the organizations they have in- vestigated, may privately cast his ballet for his choice. This essentially alleviates any embarrassment for the fresh- man when the fraternities begin issuing bids and he must turn one or two down. The ballots are collected and then categorized by the Interfraternity Council. Each fraternity is notified of the choices that have been made. This information serves several ends for the fraternities. Initially, it provides a method for the Fraternity system to find out the thoughts of the incoming freshmen. Often- times, freshmen feel pressured by several houses and as a result, might not join any of thern. Th bid box information serves as an immediate release for the tensions that a situation like this might present. The bid box is not a system of final choice for the freshmen. It just alleviates some of the pressures that they face in entering a new environment. The bid box will be located at the entrance of the West College dining room. Every male fresh- man will pass it so take the time to case your ballot. The box will be there for approximately four days starting on November 8. friday Night Dinners Every Friday in The Kosher Kitchen Services: 5:30 • Dinner: 6:00 Only $3 for great food and a good timeU JSU small class size, everyone here is able to develop good speaking skills. A good way te go about this is to take classes that require oral presentation~. This enables the students to speak under pressure, as well as learn to make clear, concise points, a skill helpful on job interviews . Ms. Tobeissen also recom- mends that a good way to develop good listening· skills is to ask your R.A. because they have had training in this. Health: -Emergency food supplies for refugees fleeing war and drought in Mozambique; -Medicine, blankets and job · and can donate at these locations. Are Vitamins A Panacea? By SHERRY WEITZEN Staff I have always been a firm disbeliever in taking vitamin supplements. So many people are vitamin poppers, never missing their daily dosage of A, Bl, B2, B6, Bl2, C, D, E, and topping it off with a multivitamin. Vitamin ad- vocates claim these pills cure everything from the common cold to sexual impotency. Research is now being done on the possibility of vitamins preventing cancer. In the preliminary investigation that I have done, I found conflicting opinions on the necessity of taking vitamins to supplement a daily diet. In a survey done to study the average vitamin user, it was found that the majority of those who take supplements are college educated and among the middle and upper classes. The article claimed that this statistic was due to the fact that these individuals are more educated about health care and nutritien. When asked why they took vitamins, members of this group answered one or more of the following responses: To supplement an unbalanced diet; vitamins help- people stay healthy; that there are not enough nutrients in food; and vitamins help increase an in- dividual's energy and make him feel better in general. Most of thos~ surveyed said they believed all of the above. (Lewis Vaughn, Prevention) Vitamins are co-enzymes which aid enzymes in the metabolism process· by facilitating chemical reactions. (\Vitamins and Minerals; The Inside Story,\ Current Health 2) As I mentioned earlier, there are conflicting views of the importance of taking vitamin supplements. .One article claims that the daily required dosage of vitamins amounts to less than one eighth of a teaspoon, which the body easily obtaiHs from a balanced diet. (\The Damage of Vitamin Supplements\ Current Health 2) Another investigation proved that it is safe to take a multivitamin that contains at the most, twice the RDA figure of specific vitamins, namely, vitamins A and D. (\Advice on· who needs vitamins, · Who Doesn't, Vogue) An overdose of these two vitamins has been found to cause biological disorders. To a less severe extent, Vitamins C, E and the B vitamins can create problems in the body, and even inhibit other nutrients from func- tioning properly (\The Damage Continued on page 8 There will be a meeting at 3:30 p.m. on Friday, November 2 for all those stud.ents interested in P .S. 76-78, Legislative Ob- servers. This course includes part-time internships in the New York State legislature in the winter and spring terms$ The meeting wiU take place in SS115o Any unrfterested student who cannot attend this . . meeting should see Professor Tidmarch or Underwood at another time. -- - -- 1 OVI Pe aw se' thE wo Co An loc 1 sis se1 an Op Th !101 pe. he. an w~ br I W( co of thl co ra

I g a g ~. ~. 0 e e s r ' ' I ~ CONCORDII:'NSIS. Noremher I, /98-1 Page 7 FEATURES The African Way Looking Into The Attic By DAVID BRUCKMAN Staff As the hot tropical sun arose over the rain forest, Chip Peters, a senior at Union, awoke to begin the day. Already seven iN the morning, most of the townspeople are already workiNg in the town in the Ivory Coast where Chip and the other Americans in his group are located. Fifteen groups, each con- sisting of ten AmericaNs, are sent to Africa each summer by an organization called Operation Crossroads Africa. The organizations functions are not dissimiliar to those of the peace-corp; primarily aiding in health, industry, construction, and agriculture. Chip's group was responsible for building bricks for local construction. Each of the Americans worked with an African counterpart under the direction of an African foreman. Some of the things the Americans had to contend with were constant rain, profuse mosquitoes, diluted beer, and frequent sickness. The biggest adversity, accordiNg to Chip, was not racial animosity, which was almost nonexistent, but the harsh environmental con- ditions. The townspeople were friendly and were eager to know about the political seene, Michael Jackson, and the T.V. show Dallas. Although the Americans lived alone, they took their meals with the townspeople and hung out with them at Hight. After a rou.gh day of work, nightrife consisted of beers, conversation (all in French), and reggae. Despite numerou.s dialects, mast people . of the Ivo\ry ·Coast speak French which is compulsory for the program. ·Chip found the ex- perience rewarding and recommends it. He learned about a different culture, fllade friends, and felt lik-e he made a contribution. The cost of the program is three thousand dollars but funds can be raised sponsorhip from religious and community organizations. By BETSY TREITLER Features Editor There is a dazzliNg chann about an old attic stuffed with lots of treasures left over from grandma's rollicking days and romantic eves. Odds and ends, smothered with dust, are shined revealing their long hidden sparkle. And then use your imagination-think of all the secrets and stories and sen- timental attachments. WJWC's storage room is very much like an old attic except that it holds mostly articles which belong in a radio station studio. Doug Landon, WRUC's Promotions Director, is in the process of clearing ol:lt all storts of old electronic equipment, phonographs, turntables, speakers, records and tapes. Old Western Electric teletypes and Federal Communications CommissioH ''topographical maps\ of Union College and the surrounding Schenectady area from the time WRUC became an FM station were scattered throughout the room. Perhaps most perplexing were the dusty typewriter, board games like Yatzee, 15 year old soda bot- tles-from the days of retur- nable bottles before disposable ones - a mirror covered by a white film almost an inch thick and paper, fold-out celebration decorations. Landon stared at these remants which lay untouched for almost 40 years; \I just don't know why it's all here.\ The old storage room is currently being transformed into a new office for the Student Environmental Alliance Club (SEA). Their old office will become the Student Forum's office for student complaints, finance affairs and anything else that might serve to enhance the forum's efforts to increase campus awarness about its activities. .. Landon, who is iwrolved in Student Forum, is directing the clean~up. Recordings from storage, not the current studio as he specifically notes, are being sold to raise income for WRUC. The articles would otherwise be disposed of in the upcoming renovations of We'd like you-1o m·eet . E 1500 State Street Schenectady, NY 12304. 370-0817 S~n. -Thprs. 11-11 p.m. Fri. & Sat. 11-1 a.m. Eat in- Take out Drive thru We make it mild; you make it HOT .Full Menu Americanized Mexican Fast Food Ask About Our Catering Servi,ce Carnegie Hall. The items, said Landon, were appraised by Keith Wheeler, Consultant to WRUG who has been advising Union's radio station since their conversion from 10 to 100 watts as a more powerful broad- castiNg signal. Some of the recordings will be inspected and perhaps purchased by record dealers. Equipment of little, if any, value was given to individuals, many of whom are electrical engineers, and to students who formed their own bands. Some plan to use the old wiring and patch bays in the construction of their own studios. One person collected some of the left over plywood and installed it as additional support for the micro-wave in his apartment. Landon is \rather pleased that so many of the left-overs are of benefit to people on campus.\ Landon continues to sort out different recordings-every- thing frofll Ethel Merman and Doris Day to the Beatles and · Bob Dillon, and even a few 45's with theme songs from 'fhe Munsters and Batman. A most odd collection of 3-4 records includes Sammy Kaye singing \Massa's in Cold, · Cold Ground,'' a negro spiritual song which was popular in the South years ago. Tapes of a speech given by Bobby Kennedy at Skidmore in 1966 and of Union student's personal shows like the 1970's comedy troop, the \Nott-Witts\ are simply scattered around in the dust waiting to be grabbed up and set into a high-fi so as to fill the air with sounds 'from yesteryear. Meanwhile, lots of WRUC junk has been heaved out of a win- dow from third floor Carnegie. Treasures of a radio station, from an era gone by, are headed toward the dumpster. WRUC seems to have completed its transition into contemporary high-tech society. AD&D Tourney Last weekend in Social Sciences this year's first AD&D (Advanced Dungeons and Dragons) game tournament was held oN Friday and Saturday night. Attendance was low, the better night being the first with sixteen people present. The garners were divided into three groups the first night, and two on Saturday. The purpose of this fairly new club sponsored by the Union College GamiNg Association is basically to have a good time with the role-playing fantasy game of AD&D. Prizes were awarded at the tournament, the winner being John Urbano, who received a plaque and a game module for his efforts. Another tournament will be scheduled for winter term, and possibly also for the spring. Anyone iNterested iN playing AD&D can contact Larry Wilder at x6677. Journal ..• Continued from page 3 \All of this is being done iN an effort to broaden the scope of the journal.\ D'Andrea is \very impressed with the quality of the Review and in the effort it represents to ·provide a forum for un- dergraduate research.'' He also conunends the students for their \initiative and persistence in the project\ As a final note, Bean reminds the Union community that the call for papers for this year's journal is scheduled to begin November 6. I

Page8 CONCORJ>IENSJ.\: Nm·emba /, /984 FEATURES Advice: Satisfy Yourself By LEON+ MONTE Sta.ff Dear L+ M, I am a freshman coed and my problem is that my roorilmate does not shower enough. I cannot confront her with the problem because I'm afraid of embarrassing her, however, I must do something because her body odor is more than I can handle. What should I do? relationship, maybe your committment is too soon, and ·you should discuss this with her. Until then, take cold showers. Signed, L&M DIRECTIONAL SATISFAC- TION: Advice by Leon and Monte _ Finance Panel of Union Alums Monday, Oct. 29, 1984 SSll7, 7 O'clock. Signed, Need a clean roommate Dear L + M, My problem is that I cannot gather enough at- tention to concentrate on my studies. Whenever I try to study, I am distracted. All I can think about is having sex. What should I do? Vitamins and Health Dear Need, Continued from page 6 of Vitamin Supplements\ Current Health 2) I would like to start this overview at the beginning .. Vitamin A is. most commonly known for being good for vision and curing acne. It is found in whole milk, liver, kidney, dar}{ green leafy vegetables, and yellow vegetables, such as carrots. Vitamin A functions as as aid in protein formation, hence its importance to healthy skin bones, teeth, eyes, and in reproduction. (\Vitamins and Minerals: 'The Inside Story\ Current Health 2) Recent developments have revealed that an increase in vitamin A containing foods may decrease the risk of getting cancer, (Bradley Norman, Ladies Home Journal) Yet an overdos~ can prove to be harmful. Since vitamin A is fat soluble, it is stored in the body, in the liver, for a substantial length of time. (\Vitamins and Minerals: The Inside Story\ Current Health 2) Too much vitamin A can cause dermatitis, headaches, blurred vision, hair loss, menstrual irregularities; and more severly, excess vitamin A could cause damage of the liver and create intestinal problems. (\The Damage of Vitamin Supplements\ Current Health 2) (\Supplements Too Much of a Good Thing\ U.S.A. Today) Another fat soluble vitamin is vitamin D. Its function is to maintain calcium and phosphorus levels in the body, thus its importance to the bones. It aids in the reab- sorption of calcium in the kidneys before the body's wastes are excreted. Vitamin D can be made by the body when catalyzed by sunlight, but it is also contained in foods such as fortified milk, eggs and fish liver oil. (\Vitamins and Minerals: The Inside Story\ Current Health 2.) Vitamin D has been discovered in con- nection with insulin production (Norman, Ladies Home Journal) In excess, vitamin D can be extremely harmful. It causes calciwn deposits to build up, leading to kidney stones. It can create high blood pressure and raise the cholesterol level in the blood. In severe cases, multiple fractures can occur due to an overdose of vitamin D (\The Damage of Vitamin Supplements\ Current Health 2) Vitamin E, also fat soluble and stored in the liver, has many myths relating its magical powers. It has been taken in hopes of delaying old JSU General Meeting Thursday 1111 7:30 Stage II 3rd Fl. Carnegie All members invited age as well as curing sexual impotency.. (De_nice Foley, Prevention, May 1984) Its major function is as an an- tioxidant, that promotes the healing of wounds. (\Vitamins and Minerals: The Inside Story'', Current Health 2) Vitamin E is among vitamin A as a possible link in some puzzling . preventative for cancer. (Foley, Prevention, May 1984) Vitamin E can be found in wheat germ oil, whole grains, leafy vegetables, egg yolks, meat, nuts, and milk fat. A deficiency can create muscle weakness and possibly red blood cell breakdown. (\Vitamins and Minerals: The Inside Story', Current Health 2) An overdose of vitamin E can cause problems. Nausea may occur along with headaches and blurred vision. In excess, vitamin E · may decrease the effectiveness of Vitamin K which is necessary in the clotting of blood, and ironically, vitamin E may reduce reproductive functioning, thus creating impotency. (\The . Damage of Vitamin Sup- plements,\ Current Health 2) It is important to realize that all vitamins can be obtained in an average diet. The question is whether supplements are necessary or helpful in _main- taining good health as well as preventing illness. Next week I will continue this overview with a look at the B vitamins, vitamin C, and the benefits and harms of taking megadoses of these vitamins. ('round the corner from the Skeller) Afternoons- Monday-Friday Evenings - Monday-Friday & Sunday Your problem is not so un. sual. Try to confront your roommate with the dilemma. Try to be light hearted at first; posing it to her in a comical way. If she does not get the hint, talk to your RA.-she should be able to talk to your roommate about the .problem. It is not fair that you suffer because your roommate has bad personal hygiene habits. So, muster your courage, and get to it. Signed, L+M Dear L + M, I am a junior with a girlfriend that is on a term abroad. We have been going out for six months and I like her a lot. Quite frankly, its been awhile and I need to relieve my tensions. My hormones are ablaze. Should I stay faithful? Dear Randy, Signed, Randy It seems that both of you have a commitment. I'm sure you would not be happy if you found out she has been unfaithful to you. If you are in any doubt about the standing of your Dear Oost, Sincerely, Lost in space. Firstly, it is not uncommon for a college student to be preoccupied with sexual thoughts. A good sex life will only occupy five percent of your time. A bad sex life will occupy ninety five percent of your time. By the way you display your problem, it seems as if you are sexually deprived. Keep trying to study hard. If your problem continues, maybe masturbation or a cold shower will help. This should relieve your tensions, and you will be able to con- centrate more on your work. Make sure you don't replace sex with masturbation, but it can be used as a viable alternative. Good Luck, L+M Readers: Our views are not necessarily the views of the staff or the Concordiensis. If you have a problem, we can help. Send your problems to boxes 683 or 972. You can remain annonymous when sending your letters to us. The Union College Oxfam Committee welcomes any new members to help · organize the Fast. Please come to our meeting Thursday I at 3:30 in Conference Room A in Carnegie. Faculty 1 staff, and fraternity and so.rority participation -are also welcome and appreciated. The Biology Club will be meeting to discuss a trip to Howe Caverns on Saturday, Nov. lOth. This meeting will take plac.e in Conf. Rm. A at 4:30 on Thursday, Nov. 1st. Elections for freshman representative to the Biology Department will be held on Thursday, Nov. 8tiJ in Con f. Rm. A at 4:30. INTERESTED IN BANKING, INTERNATIONAL FINANCE OR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT? COME HAVE LUNCH WITH TOM LAYMAN, VICE PRESIDENT AT CROCKJ!'R NATIONAL BANK IN CALIFORNIA FRIDAY NOVEMBER 2nd A 12:00 • 12:45 IN THE PUB DISCUSSION TO FOLLOW IN STAGE. II {3rd FL. CARNEGIE) MOVI.E: \Assignment: life' 52 min. • Adm. FREE Monday, 5 November 7:30p.m. • SS016 ·An in-depth look at both sides of the abortion issue through 111terviews with people both for and against abortion .. Discussion period afterward. Sponsored by: Union College Pro-Life Forum .and Schenecta.dy County Right to L'ife Co.mmittee~ Inc. ·. . • !- •••• ' -ll' .,,·, !-< ~ •, Y-\\\ ·~

~ - y t ~ ,. SEBASTIAN INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT HAPPEN. HAIR DESIGN Located on corner of Broadway & Hamilton St. 382-7956- Student Discounts CONCORI>IFNS/.\', Nol'cmher I. /9H.J The Reggae Sounds of 'BLACK SHEEP'· at Alumni Gym T'hursday, Nov. 8 8:00p.m. Page9 Union College students with ID--$5.00. Tickets available at the Student Box -Office.. Beer will be provided throughout the evening. Sponsored by t.,e Union College Concert and Social Committees and Miller Beer .....-wELCOME-----... to 111U.Ler~l ime II 1, • ~/ •' • •,·' .'o I , , .. J, I ,I'• I VWI Union College Is Pleased To Announce The Dates For Parents' Weekend May 10-12, 1985 Please Mark Your Calendar! More information wi II be available in March RUlLO YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! PREPARE FOR: GREPSYCH • TESf.N·TAPE• LIBRARY • REINFORCEMENT TEST • HOMESTUDY PACKET Call Days, Evenings & Weekends SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938

Page /0 CONl'ORIJIJ:'NSI.'!.~ Nm·emht>rl, 198.J C!rllltlllrbirttsis FOIJIJf.kd at limon Col/~~ 1871 ------------ ----------- Card Chaos Preregistration time bas arrived once again. Once each tenn the card war begins and students line themselves up in front of the respective offices at seven, six, even four or five o'clock in the morning to insure that they will not be shutout of a course. There was a discussion last year about reforming . the preregistration system and disposing of the card allocation arrangement. Cards are given out on a first come, first· serve basis, and students without the necessary card cannot preregister for the course he or she desires. Many times students will go get cards for a ~ourse even though he or she is uncertain whether or not to take it the following terms. Other students who might need a certain course as a prerequisite or to fulfill liberal learning credits necessary for graduation may find themselves last on a long line of people waiting for a limited number of cards. This term the registrar has changed the system a bit. All cards will now be distributed on. one day, in one place-the alumni gym. Instead of the confusion that occurs at each department, the chaos will center from one point. On November 14, approximately three-quarters of the student population will congregate on the steps of the gym. The registrar's office has assured us that this situation is merely temporary and will not be repeated in the winter. It's about time, however, that the administration takes a close look at the card system while the inefficiency of the arrangement is most obvious. SEA Recycles Every other Friday during the term, Union's Student Environmental Alliance (SEA) collects paper on campus for recycling. The paper is brought to Buff & Buff, a local recycling plant in Schenectady, whereby the alliance receives a n_ominal and in- consequential payment in return (approximately one penny per pound). However, only a relatively small portion of the College's used paper is collected while much of it is lost to the various dumpsters on campus. Unfortunately, the SEA just does not have the necessary manpower to collect all the recyclable paper on campus let alone on a more regular basis. Also, the College has no overall plan to help the SEA in this matter. Not all the departments adhere to the recycling policy for various reasons: Some depart- ments are unaware of the process while others find it difficult to hold on to the paper for as long as two weeks. Would it not behoove the College to work with the SEA so as to design a feasible plan for recycling paper on the entire campus on a more regular basis? If the Administration were to formulate such a plan, the SEA would receive more response and manpower for paper collection and drop-offs. The College is ignoring the environment on this issue. Also, on a campus where paper is needed by many student organizations and college departments, it is surprising that we do not work through a recycling plant or some other organization to acquire paper at a lower cost. Concordiensis does not need high quality paper yet it is forced to purchase such because of a lack of a cheap paper source. LETTERS ROTC· Responds To the· Editor, I would like ·to. respond to the artide by Miss Steinhardt, and the letter by Mr. Bradley, both of which appeared in last week's Concordy. First off, in reference to the current fantasy that the Navy is threatening to remove scholarship support ff Union does not begin granting credit for ROTC courses, this is un~ true. The Navy's position, according to a senior officer at · the unit at RPI, is that the Navy would like Union to grant credit · .t~wards graduation for Navy ROTU~~.ur~s. There is no threat (}f' ip;unediate removal of scholarship· support. In all fairness, Mr. Bradley should have checked that out~ ·before referring. to the supt>osed \financial extortion\ on the part of the Navy. The Navy does not expect Union to accept all NROTC courses towards graduation, however they would like us to accept some. Many institutions, RPI included, accept six credit hours of NROTC courses as contributing towards a degree. This would be the equivalent of two Union courses. RPI accepts them so I am sure that they have some academic content. What would be the problem in accepting these two courses as electives? It is true that the Navy courses are vocational in nature; that is they are useful primarily to Naval officers, but are they any more vocational than any of the programming courses offered here? Certainly they contain as much academic content as some of the courses offered to satisfy the Liberal Learning requirements. Merely listing the ROTC courses on the transcript will not solve the problem. There is no official policy yet, but the time may come when the Armed Forces will not give · scholarships to schools that do not accept at least some of their courses. While I personally would not agree with a .policy like this., I can certainly un- derstand it. From the viewpoint of the military, why should they spend their money on a school that does not recognize them? There are plenty of quality students out there willing and able to attend quality in- stitutions that do recognize and accept ROTC courses. Schools like MIT, Harvard, Notre Dame, Cal Tech, and Stanford accept ROTC courses, why can't we? I would also like to take issue here with the comments and implications in the statements made by Professor Sorum. If I understand her correctly she perceives that the goal of the military is to produce\ ~in­ dividuals who do not question any type of authority; iri\effect mindless, initiativeless, automatons, interested only in following / o·rders. I invite Professor Sorum to attend my leadership courses with me next semester, or for that matter to attend any Air Force or Army leadership course. If she does, she will find that all officers are taught to question orders that they do not understand, and to refuse to carry out those that they consider unlawful. The kind of attitude that is represented by comments such as Professor Soriun's is per- sonally offensive and unac- ceptable at an institution of Union's quality. If Professor Sorum does in fact believe that the purpose of a liberal education is to \ ... teach people how .to examine various ways in which the world is structured .. . \ and \. . . to encourage each person to accumulate the necessary information to create their own personal system.'' Then I fail to see why she would not welcome ROTC courses as aqpther of ''various ways\ to examine, and perhaps in- corporate iatp an individual's own \personal s)\Stem .. \ If she also ''fuUly understands the need for an army\ wouldn't she rather have an army officered by individuals who were educated in an institution that is more liberal than the service academies? If ROTC refuses to allow cadets and midshipmen to attend Union College then she will have lost her chance to influence and perhaps change in any way the institution that she seems to distrust. Finaliy, I would like to point out that the whole situation is becoming ridiculous. The various service ROTC's are not out to take over Union College as some pr_9fessors seem to fear. WQ<-have enough problems running our own services, without the added burden of running Union too! All they are asking for is academic recognition for the ROTC courses that deserve it; not for them but for us, the people who are taking _ them. It is a reasonable request from one institution to another, and it should be treated reasonably .. not hysterically. Thank you, Midn Eric Cook USNR · Work in the Library? To the Editor: I do not understand why the interior of Schaffer Library should be painted just when most of us are beginning to \camp out\ in the library as the end ofthe term draws near! The school is busy trying to change the academic calender in order to alleviate some of the pres- sure caused by the trimester schedule. Yet the physical plant Letters to. the editor and commentaries do not reflect the opinion of the. editorial board of Co.ncordiensis makes it impossible to study in comfort in the library. The paint fumes, coupled with the warm room temperature, make the library conducive to headaches, not learning. I hope the physical plant will consider the students before it· applies the \next coat.\ e.G. Brand Class of '85 - - rr p Cl A pi il1 VI pi fr Cl D nl tt in pl is ir D dj pi pi VI w SI in B Tl t~ or V< pi bE te w T. ot th fo al bl S€ th gl n! 0' dE AJ m or th sll th u, CC ht M do al a ag at ec

Page 10 CONCORD/ 1:'/'VS/S, .Voremha I, 198./ QlllltOlrbirnsis FounJn/ a/ l lmon Coli~~ 1877 ------------ -------- Card Chaos Preregistration time has arrived once again. Once each term the card war begins and students line themselves up in front of the respective offices at seven, six, even four or five o'clock in the morning to insure that they will not be shut out of a course. There was a discussion last year about reforming the preregistration system and disposing of the card allocation arrangement. Cards are given out on a first come, first · serve basis, and students without the necessary card cannot preregister for the course he or she desires. Many times students will go get cards for a course even though he or she is uncertain whether or not to take it the following terms. Other students who might need a certain course as a prerequisite or to fulfill liberal learning credits necessary for graduation may find themselves last on a long line of people waiting for a limited nwnber of cards. This term the registrar has changed the system a bit. All cards will now be distributed on one day, in one place-the alumni gym. Instead of the confusion that occurs at each department, the chaos will center from one point. On November 14, approximately three-quarters of the student population will congregate on the steps of the gym. The registrar's office has assured us that this situation is merely temporary and will not be repeated in the winter. It's about time, however, that the administration takes a close look at the card system while the inefficiency of the arrangement is most obvious. SEA Recycles Every other Friday during the term, Union's Student Environmental Alliance (SEA) collects paper on campus for recycling. The paper is brought to Buff & Buff, a local recycling plant in Schenectady, whereby the alliance receives a nominal and in- consequential payment in return (approximately one penny per pound). However, only a relatively small portion of the College's used paper is collected while much of it is lost to the various dumpsters on campus. Unfortunately, the SEA just does not have the necessary manpower to collect all the recyclable paper on campus let alone on a more regular basis. Also, the College has no overall plan to help the SEA in this matter. Not all the departments adhere to the recycling policy for various reasons: Some depart- ments are unaware of the process while others find it difficult to hold on to the paper for as long as two weeks. Would it not behoove the College to work with the SEA so as to design a feasible plan for recycling paper on the entire campus on a more regular basis? If the Administration were to formulate such a plan, the SEA would receive more response and manpower for paper collection and drop-offs. The College is ignoring the environment on this issue. Also, on a campus where paper is needed by n1any student organizations and college departments, it is surprising that we do not work through a recycling plant or some other organization to acquire paper at a lower cost. Concordiensis does not need high quality paper yet it is forced to purchase such because of a lack of a cheap paper source. LETTERS ROTC Responds --....---...----------------- To the Editor, I would like to respond to ttie article by Miss Steinhardt, and the letter by Mr. Bradley, both of which appeared in last week's Concordy. First off, in reference to the current fantasy that the Navy is threatening to remove scholarship support if Union does not begin granting credit for ROTC courses, this is un- true. The Navy's position, according to a senior officer at the unit at RPI, is that the Navy would like Union to grant credit .!!)wards graduation for Navy ROTG~o.urs..es. There is no threat or .jpunediate removal of scholarship support. In all fairness, Mr. Bradley should have checked that out, before referring to the sup}:JOsed \financial extortion\ on the part of the Navy. The Navy does not expect Union to accept all NROTC courses towards graduation, however they would like us to accept some. Many institutions, RPI included, accept six credit hours of NROTC courses as contributing towards a degree. This would be the equivalent of two Union courses. RPI accepts them so I am sure that they have some academic content. What would be the problem in accepting these two courses as electives? It is true that the Navy courses are vocational in nature: that is they are useful primarily to Naval officers, but are they any more vocational than any of the progranuning courses offered here? Certainly they contain as much academic content as some of the courses offered to satisfy the Liberal Learning requirements. Merely listing the ROTC courses on the transcript wi11l not solve the problem. There is no official policy yet, but the time may come when the Armed Forces will not give scholarships to schools that do not accept at least some of their courses. While I personally would not agree with a policy Hke this, I can certainly tm· derstand it. From the viewpoint of the military, why should they spend their money on a school that does not recognize them? There are plenty of quality students out there wiHing and able to attend quality in- stitutions that do recognize and accept ROTC courses. Schools like MIT, Harvard, Notre Dame, Cal Tech, and Stanford accept ROTC courses, why can't we? I would also like to take issue here with the comments and implications in the statements made by Professor Sonun. If I understand her correctly she perceives that the goal of the military is to produce-· Jn· dividuals who do not question any type of authority; iri-effect mindless, initiativeless, automatons, interested only in following - o·rders. I invite Professor Sorum to attend my leadership courses with me next semester, or for that matter to attend any Air Force or Army leadership course. If she does, she will find that all officers are taught to question orders that they do not understand, and to refuse to carry out those that they consider unlawful. The kind of attitude that is represented by comments such as Professor Sorwn'<; is per- sonally offensive and unac- ceptable at an institution of Union's quality. If Professor Sorwn does in fact believe that the purpose of a liberal education is to\ ... teach people haw to examine various ways in which the world is structured .. . \ and \. . . to encourage each person to accumulate the necessary infarmation to create their own personal system.\ Then I fail to see why she would not welcome ROTC courses as ill!\)ther of \various ways\ to examine, and perhaps in- corporate ilitp an individual's own \personal s)'Stem.\ If she also \fuHly understands the need for an army\ wouldn't she rather have an army officered by individuals who were educated in an institution that is more liberal than the service academies? If ROTC refuses to allow cadets and midshipmen to attend Union College then she will have lost her chance to influence and perhaps change in any way the institution that she seems to distrust. Finally, I would like to point out that the whole situation is becoming ridiculous. The various service ROTC's are not out to take over Union College as some p~ofess6rs seem to fear. W~have enough problems running our own services, without the added burden of running Union too! All they are asking for is academic recognition for the ROTC courses that deserve it; not for them but for us, the people who are taking . them. It is a reasonable request from one institution to another, and it should be treated reasonably .. not hysterically. Thank you, Midn Eric Cook USNR Work in the Library? ----------------------- To the Editor: I do not understand why the interior of Schaffer Library should be painted just when most of us are beginning to '\camp out\ in the library as the end of the term draws near! The school is busy trying to change the academic calender in order to alleviate some of the pres- sure caused by the trimester schedule. Yet the physical plant Letters to the editor and commentaries do not reflect the opinion of the editorial board of Concordiensis makes it impossible to study in comfort in the library. The paint fumes, coupled with the warm room temperature, make the library conducive to headaches, not learning. I hope the physical plant will consider the students before it applies the \next coat.\ e.G. Brand Class of '85 - m p A P< in \T( pl fr CC D m th in pl is in D di pi p~ vc w sr in B Tl th or vc pc b€ te w. Tl ot th fo at bt se th g€ nc 0\1 dE AI m on th sk th lh; co he M: do ah a ag ab ec

in ,, to n- ~e ~e ~d is ~e ~r a e e s d CONCORIJIEN.\'IS Non•mha /, 198-1 Page II COMMENTARIES Democrats Serve Young Voters U.S. Wary of a ByGARYHART People with long memories may recall that I · ran for Presidt:lnt earlier this year. Out campaign became a cause for Americans who had given up on politics or who had not been involved before. Many of these voters were young, some were professionals and many came from outside the traditional constituencies of the Democratic Party. In the last month, disturbing news reports have indicated that younger voters are getting int~rested in politics again-but planning to vote Republican. It is said that this is in their self- interest while voting Democratic is not. I strongly disagree with this analysis and predict a far different voting pattem among new, younger voters this November. I believe this group, along with others who are young in spirit, will make the difference in the contest between Reagan- Bush and Mondale-Ferraro. The election and the future of the Democratic Party will rest on them. What distinguishes these vofers? They believe in op- portunity, not hand-outs. They believe in giving the free 'en- terprise system a chance but want to see polluters regulated. They have compassion for others but want a Government that works efficiently. They are for a strong defense but are absolutely opposed to a nuclear build-up that threatens our security. They are distingutshed by their experience. An earlier generation experienced the nation's great triumphs- overcoming the Depression and defeating Fascism. Younger Americans have been shaped by more tragedies-assassinati- ons, Vietnam and Watergate- that have produced ..a certain skepticism of Government. other generations have seen their heroes immortalized after lives- rich in achievement. In contrast, this generation's heroes-the Kennedys and Martin Luther King-were cut down with life and promise still ahead. This produced in many a reluc4lnce to get involved again-a sense of hopelessness about the political process. Other generations found economic and political in- fluence in groups-especially trade associations, labor unions and political parties. Many younger voters lack this tradition of shared struggle. This makes them more in- dependent. They also came of age during an information explosion that provided a variety of sources from which to draw ideas. They are less reliant on their company president, union leader or political boss-and are more self•reliant. These young voters care about those in need, but they are skeptical of Government when it perpetuates its own failures. Whether something is liberal or conservative is less important than whether it works. Most of all, these voters are attuned to the future. They're concerned about issues that wm define the quality of life in the years ahead-the environment, the nuclear freeze and.struggles for minorities and women's rights. They are the political vanguard and they want to believe that our best days are still to.. come. What will they do in 1984? Ronald Reagan does not deserve their support. Walter Mondale does. He has earned it, and our future demands it. Consider three major issues- arms control, deficits and personal liberty. Our arms control policy is monopolized today by har- dliners. who confuse diplomacy with weakness and fun- damentally reject the negotiation process. In four years, these arms-racers have closed every opening, derailed every _effort and ruined every chance for an agreement. As new, young voters, who over- whelmingly support a verifiable, bilateral freeze, come to understand this, they cannot help but turn to Walter Mondale and Geraldine F~t:raro, who are not afraid to negot~te with Moscow. On the deficit, too, policy is now imposed by a fringe group--in this c~ a group that is taxing the future to pay for the past. The President. thinks young voters are so· .§hart- sighted that they will ignore these monstrous deficits-if he can distract them with a few dollars to spend now. He is wrong. Debt may be an ab- straction. Int-erest is not. In the . last four years, the interest payments on the debt have reached $110 billion a year. By 1989, interest alone will soar to more than $200 billion a year- four times higher than when , Mr, Reagan took over. Khomeini 'Surprise' In ·contrast, in choosing to spell out his plans to deal with the deficit, Walter Mondale chose the path not of least resistance but of highest responsibi\jty. That is something every generation respects. In a third area, religion and politics, Ronald Reagan has alarmed independent-minded voters by inviting represen- tatives of one small group of Protestants to prescribe our morals and beliefs. Mr. Reagan apparently interprets religious freedom to mean freedom for one narrow segment of the people to impose its beliefs on the rest. That, too, young voters know, is a threat to our future- to the elemental liberties that stand at the heart of the American tradition. Finally and perhaps most important, the Reagan cam- paign makes an entirely wrong assumption about today's young voters-that they are self- centered and self-indulgent, that they care nothing for others. Here, the Adrninistratio~ is merely projecting its own values, and once the young voters recognize this, I believe they will reject the Republican ticket. The youth I worked with in my campaign understand the difference between skepticism and cynicism, between true opportunity and sheer greed. They know our 'society is not made up of 250 million greedy individuals and that we won't become \better off\ one person at a time. New voters have a fateful choice this November-a historic chance. They can choose an Administration that is blatantly ma.nipulative and contemptuous of them-a tired Administration that conceals and compounds old problems- or they can choose a govern- ment prepared for new <solutions and new ideas. I am confident that young voters in .:~pirit will choose the national interest and the common good over the narrow politics of short-term personal gratification. By JACK ANDERSON and JOSEPH SPEAR WASHINGTON-.-:The aging Ayatollah Khomeni is getting too big fGr his burnoose. According to - intelligence sources, ·he not only thinks he was the one who cost Jimmy Carter the election four years ago-but he thinks he can pull Ronald Reagan down this time. Khomeini plans to use roughly the same weapon he believes toppled Carter: armed .fanatics brainwashed into a frenzy of anti-American hatred. Shiite Moslem fun- damentalists devoted to Khomeini are planning tG carry out another bombing attack on an American facility in the Middle East before Election Day, according to what a State Department source called a \specific\ warning received by U.S. intelligence. The trouble is, our in- telligence agencies have been getting so many threats and warnings about imminent at ... tacks on American embassies in the Middle East that they can't handle them all. In fact, sources told our associate Lucette Lagnado, there's a distinct possibility that the flood of intelligence is designed to confuse the experts and lead the embassies to relax when nothing happens-making a later strike that much easier. \There is deliberate misin- formation being given out to wear down our analysts,\ one source said. But the State Department is taking no chances. It has or- dered several embassies in the Middle East on full alert. In addition to the battered Beirut embassy and the ambassador's vesidence there, the endangered embassies include those in Kuqait (already bomood once), Oman, Bahrain and Jordan. (The embassy in Amman, Jordan, is especially vulnerable, situated less than 10 feet off a main road and thus easy prey .for truck-bombers.) Administration critics blame Reagan for the continuing threat of terrorist attacks. They say Khomeini and his suicide squads have been encouraged by Reagan's failure to retaliate against the terrorists or their sponsor governments for the earlier bombings. If the critics are right, of course, there would be no reason for Khomeini to carry out a pre-election strike to sink Reagan. Logically, he'd rather see,Reagan re-elected so he cari kiCk sand in his face for another four years. But since when has logic governed Khomeini-or foreign policy critics, for that matter? The terrorists' ultimate goal is to drive the United States out of the Middle East entirely. Their perception of how this can best be done-with Reagan or Walter Mondale in the White House-will. presumably decide whether they actually carry o~t their threat before Election Day. Meanwhile, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee is due to release its report this week on the September bom- bing in Beirut. Our sources tell us the report will be \hard- hitting,\ but not tough enough to please the Democrats. Apparently, the report won't fault either the decision to move the embassy to East Beirut or the replacement of Marines outside the embassy with Lebanese guards. But it will sharply criticize the failure to take such elementary precautions as temporarily blocking the entry road while waiting for the steel gates to be positioned. BACK COUNTRY VAN- DALS: Senseless vandalism, usually considered a phenomenon of big-city blight, has reached the rugged back country of Alaska. Near the awesome Mendenh~ll Glacier, the National Park Service put up Skaters Cabin, in which hikers can find protection from the artie winds that whistle across the glacier. But vandals keep breaking the cabin's windows. A park Service memo notes that the rangers have \tried a variety of products, including material designed for use in prison facilities.\ None of them proved a match for the vandals, so the service has come up with a bizarre solution: Hikers are issued portable replacement windows, which they can install themselves. WATCH ON WASTE: According to an analysis by the Office of Personnel Management, thousands of federal employees are paid more than they should be. The analysts concluded that 185,000 bureaucrats-about 14 percent of the total-hold job grades higher than they should. \Misgrading as it is called, costs the taxpayers about $700 _ million a year. · CONFIDENTIAL FILE: Intelligence analysts have begun to fear that next year's elections in Greece could spark violence that conceivably could turn this valuable NATO ally into a dictatorship of the right or left. The anti-American rantings of socialist Prime Minister Andreas Papandreous, sources say, have polarized the nation to the point that outright violence has become a distinct possibility. , -An official State Depart- ment warning to American tourists, that they could be physically attacked if they visit Leningrad, has apparently h~d the intended effect on the Kremlin. The attacks stopped overnight. Diplomatic sources suspe~t Soviet offiPials were worried that their lucrative tourist trade wol)ld dry up. Copyright 1984 • United Feature Syndicate, Inc. All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 5:00 pm each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed, .but names will be withheld upon request.

at al in ~h \ ~s 's e e 0 e c r t J: ('ON('ORIJIJ:'NSIS .'Voremha I, 198./ Page I I Democrats Serve Young Voters ByGARYHART People with long memories may recall that I ran for President earlier this year. Our campaign became a cause fer Americans who had given up on politics or who had not been involved before. Many of these voters were young, some were professionals and many came from outside the traditional constituencies of the Democratic Party. In the last month, disturbing news reports have indicated that younger voters are gettimg interested in politics again-but planning to vote Republican. It is said that this is in their self- interest whHe voting Democratic is not. I strongly disagree with this analysis and predict a far different voting pattern among new, younger voters this November. I believe this group, along with others who are young in spirit, will make the difference in the contest between Reagan- Bush and Mondale-Ferraro. The election and the future of the Democratic Party will rest on them. What distinguishes these voters? They believe in op- portunity, not hand-outs. They believe in giving the free en- terprise system a chance but want to see polluters regulated. They have compassion for others but want a Government that works efficiently. They are for a strong defense but are absolutely opposed to a nuclear build-up that threatens our security. They are distinguished by their experience. An earlier generation experienced the nation's great triumphs- overcoming the Depression and defeating Fascism. Younger Americans have been shaped by more tragedies-assassinati- ons, Vietnam and Watergate- that have produced a certain skepticism of Government. Other generatioNs have seen their heroes immortalized after lives· rich in achievement. In contrast, this generation's heroes-the Kennedys and Martin Luther King-were cut down with life and promise still ahead. This produced in many a reluctance to get involved again-a sense of hopelessness about the political process. Other generations found economic and political in- \ ~r:t-IGAN () fluence in greups-especiaHy trade associations, labor unions and political parties. Many younger voters lack this tradition of shared struggle. This makes them more in- dependent. They also came of age during an information explosion that provided a variety of sources from which to draw ideas. They are less reliant on their company president, union leader er political boss-and are more self-reliant. These young voters care about those in need, but they are skeptical of Government when it perpetuates its own failures. Whether something is liberal or conservative is less important than whether it works. Most of all, these voters are attuned to the future. They're concerned about issues that will define the quality of life in the years ahead-the environment, the nuclear freeze and struggles for minorities and women's rights. They are the political vanguard and they want to believe that our best days are still to. come. What will they do in 1984? Ronald Reagan does not deserve their support. Walter Mondale does. He has earned it, and our future demands it. Consider three major issues- arms control, deficits and personal liberty. Our arms control policy is monopolized today by har- dliners who confuse diplomacy with weakness and fun- damentally reject the negotiation process. In four years, these arms-racers have closed every opening, derailed every .effort and ruined every chance for an agreement. As new, young voters, who over- whelmingly support a verifiable, bilateral freeze, come to understand this, they cannot help but turn to Walter 1\'londale and Geraldine F~rraro, who are not afraid to negoti:a,te with Moscow. On the deficit, too, policy is now imposed by a fringe group-in this case a group that is taxing the future to pay for the past. The President thinks young voters are so short- sighted that they will ignore these monstrous deficits-if he can distract them with a few dollars to spend now. He is wrong. Debt may be an ab- straction. Interest is not. In the I ~~~ () last four years, the interest payments on the debt have reached $110 billion a year. By 1989, interest alone will soar to more than $200 billion a year- four times higher than when Mr. Reagan took over. In ·contrast, in choosing to spell out his plans to deal with the deficit, Walter Mondale chose the path not of least resistance hut of highest responsibility. That is something every generation respects. In a third area, religion and politics, Ronald Reagan has alarmed independent-minded voters by inviting represen- tatives of one small group of Protestants to prescribe our morals and beliefs. Mr. Reagan apparently interprets religious freedom to mean freedom for one narrow segment of the people to impose its beliefs on the rest. That, too, young voters know, is a threat to our future- to the elemental liberties that stand at the heart of the American tradition. Finally and perhaps most important, the Reagan cam- paign makes an entirely wrong asswnption about today's young voters-that they are self- centered and self-indulgent, that they care nothing for others. Here, the Administration is merely projecting its own values, and once the young voters recognize this, I believe they will reject the Republican ticket. The youth I worked with in my campaign understand the difference between skepticism and cynicism, between true opportunity and sheer greed. They know our ·society is not made up of 250 million greedy individuals and that we won't become \better off\ one person at a time. New voters have a fateful choice this November-a historic chance. They can choose an Administration that is blatantly manipulative and contemptuous of them-a tired Administration that conceals and compounds old problems- or they can choose a govern- ment prepared for new solutions and new ideas. I am confident that young voters in .~pirit will choose the national interest and the common good over the narrow politics of short-term personal gratification. 0 COMMENTARIES U.S. Wary of a Khomeini 'Surprise' By JACK ANDERSON and JOSEPH SPEAR WASHINGTON-The aging Ayatollah Khomeni is getting too big for his burnoose. Accordin.g to . intelligence sources, he not only thinks he was the one who cost Jimmy Carter the election four years ago-but he thinks he can pull Ronald Reagan down this ti:me. Khomeini plans to use roughly the same weapon he believes toppled Carter: armed fanatics brainwashed into a frenzy of anti-American hatred. Shiite Moslem fun- damentalists devoted to Khomeini are planning to carry out another bombing attack on an American facility in the Middle East before Election Day, according to what a State Department source called a \specific\ warning received by U.S. intelligence. The trouble is, our in- telligence agencies have been getting so many threats and warnings about imminent at .. tacks on American embassies in the Middle East that they can't handle them all. In fact, sources told our associate Lucette Lagnado, there's a distinct possibility that the flood of intelligence is designed to confuse the experts and lead the embassies to relax when nothing happens-making a later strike that much easier. \There is deliberate misin- formation being given out to wear down our analysts,\ one source said. But the State Department is taking no chances. It has or- dered several embassies in the Middle East on full alert. In addition to the battered Beirut embassy and the ambassador's residence there, the endangered embassies include those in Kuqait (already bomoed once), Oman, Bahrain and Jordan. (The embassy in Amman, Jordan, is especially vulnerable, situated less than 10 feet off a main road and thus easy prey for truck-bombers. ) Administration critics blame Reagan for the continuing threat of terrorist attacks. They say Khomeini and his suicide squads have been encouraged by Reagan's failure to retaliate against the terrorists or their sponsor governments for the earlier bombings. If the critics are right, of course, there would be no reason for Khomeini to carry out a pre-election strike to sink Reagan. Logically, he'd rather see Reagan re-elected so he can· kick sand in his face for another four years. But since when has logic governed Khomeini-or foreign policy critics, for that matter? The terrorists' ultimate goal is to drive the United States out of the Middle East entirely. Their perception of how this can best be done-with Reagan or Walter Mondale in the White House-will presumably decide whether they actually carry out their threat before Election Day. Meanwhile, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee is due to release its report this week on the September bom- bing in Beirut. Our sources tell us the report will be \hard- hitting,\ but not tough enough to please the Democrats. Apparently, the report won't fault either the decision to move the embassy to East Beirut or the replacement of Marines outside the embassy with Lebanese guards. But it will sharply criticize the failure tv take such elementary precautions as temporarily blocking the entry road while waiting for the steel gates to be positioned. BACK COUNTRY VAN- DALS: Senseless vandalism, usually considered a phenomenon of big-city blight, has reached the rugged back country of Alaska. Near the awesome Mendenhall Glacier, the National Park Service put up Skaters Cabin, in which hikers can find protection from the artie winds that whistle across the glacier. But vandals keep breaking the cabin's windows. A park Service memo notes that the rangers have \tried a variety of products, including material designed for use in prison facilities.\ None of them proved a match for the vandals, so the service has come up with a bizarre solution: Hikers are issued portable replacement windows, which they can install themselves. WATCH ON WASTE: According to an analysis by the Office of Personnel Management, thousands of federal employees are paid more than they should be. The analysts concluded that 185,000 bureaucrats-about 14 percent of the total-hold job grades higher than they should. \Misgrading as it is called, costs the taxpayers about $700 million a year. CONFIDENTIAL FILE: Intelligence analysts have begun to fear that next year's elections in Greece could spark violence that conceivably could turn this valuable NATO ally into a dictatorship of the right or left. The anti-American rantings of socialist Prime Minister Andreas Papandreous, sources say, have polarized the nation to the point that outright violence has become a distinct possibility. -An official State Depart- ment warning to American tourists, that they could be physically attacked if they visit Leningrad, has apparently had the intended effect on the Kremlin. The attacks stopped overnight. Diplomatic sources suspect Soviet officials were worried that their lucrative tourist trade would dry up. Copyright 1984 United Feature Syndicate, Inc. All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 5:00 pm each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed, but names will be withheld upon request.

Page 12 CONC(~R/)1/:'NSI.\~ Nm·cmher /, 198.J INTERNSHIPS releases and newsletter mailings, assist in public ===========- educ<1tion programs. October and November. Includes White House Fellowship: One-year program in which Fellows serve as special assistants to Cabinet Secretaries or senior members of the White House staff. Fellows also participate in extensive education program. Highly competitive. Deadline: December 1, 1984. Northwestern· Mutual Life: Internship for Juniors and Seniors seeking good paying part-time jobs with potential for a full-time career after graduation. Training sessions c;tarting immediately. Infor- mation available at CDC or call Brian Thomas at 785-4141. Training and development Internship, Infosearch: An Albany based firm is seeking a student intern to develop training materials for their staff in several departments. Writing skills are essential, creativity desirable. Suitable for students interested in business or personnel. Choate Rosemary Hall: Summer teaching internships to give prospective secondary school teachers an opportunity to gain classroom experience. Room and board plus salary provided. Cystic Fibrosis Bowl for Breath, Cystic Fibrosis Foundation: Intern will assist Program Director in overseeing the total organization and implementation of the 1984 fundraising program. Intern will work with volunteers and committees, recruit par- ticipants, prepare news mileage reimbursement and meal allowance. Devereux Foundation: Full- time 12-month preprofessional mental health traineeships at the Devereux Foundation treatment centers which serve mentally and emotionally ·handicapped children and young adults. International Development Program, Agen«:y for Inter- national Development: The Agency for International Development offers internships to train qualified men and women to become Foreign Service officers. Requirements: Graduate degree in certain fields, 2 years experience. Deadline: November 10, 1984. +Please inform students that information is available in CDC. RESEARCH FUNDS The Subcouncil on Research and Grants is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities for this academic year. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Kaplan's Office ( 8100) Science & Engineering Center. The deadline for submission of these applications is Monday, November 12. Questions con- cerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Kaplan, Associate Dean of Faculty. The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foun- dation in two categories-- student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ falls on November·12. Proposals should describe werk to be completed during this academic year. Proposals for student-initiated. research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed t0 supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to Dean Kaplan's office (S100) Science & Engineering Center. Members of the College com- munity who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office. Applications and guidelines are available upon request. Inquiries should be directed to Dean Kaplan, Associate Dean of Faculty. CLUB NEWS Social committee meeting Nov. 1 in Hale House. All are welcome. We will be planning Winter Carnival. The meeting is at 7 p.m. Women's glee club rehearsals are held Monday at 6:30 and Wednesday at 8:30p.m. in Arts 215. If you like to sing we'd like to see you! AMNESTY INTERN A TI- ONAL will be meeting every Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Carnegie, stage two. Everyone is welcome to attend. Newman Folk Group-- Sunday, November 4, 6:30p.m. UNION COLLEGE FOOD SERVICE & THE STUDENT FORUM PRESENT TAKE A PROFESSOR TO LUNCH WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7 WEST COLLEGE & HALE HOUSE A limited number of guest passes for professors will be available in Food Service (3rd Fl. Carnegie) during regular business hours on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday (Nov. 5-7). ID and Meal Card must be presented to obtain pass. WRUC Presents: Union Hockey vs. McGill Tomorrow (Friday) -7:00p.m. Union F~otball vs. Middlebury Saturday 1:00 p.m. Sportsline • 7:30p.m. Every Monday, Weanesday, Friday Union Sports on 89.7 FM WRUC meets with Friar Paul in St. John's Church to prepare for 7:30p.m. Mass. New members welcome. Newman Bi>ble Study-- Monday, November 5 at 4 p.m. with Sr. Joan in ~Religious Programs Office. Newman Weekly Meeting & Social-Monday, November 5 at 8 p,m., 4th Floor Lounge, Carnegie. A representative from Hospice will show slides and talk about the Hospice Program. Tutorial Program-Anyone interested in tutoring Reading one hour a week to primarily second graders of St. John the Evangelist School please contact Peter Fischer, 374-3243. \Jacques Brel. is Alive and Well and Living in Paris\ will be presented by Mountebanks, Union College's student dramatic group, Nov. 8-10 and 13-17 at the college. Per- formances begin at 8 p.m. each night in the Nott Memorial. Tickets are $3 for students, $4 for faculty and staff and $5 for the general public, and are available at the Nott Memorial Ticket Office. SPEAKERS Dr. Roy Malpass, Professor of Behavioral Science at SUNY- Plattsburgp, will speak on \Ethical Hedges and Applied Social Psychology\ on Thur- sday, November 15 at 4 p.m. in PY 213. Refreshments will be served. All are welcome. HELP WANTED GOVERNMENT JOBS. $8,342 - $15,177-yr. CaH 805-687-6000 Ext. R-4000. . Cleaning person needed. Flexible hours. Apply Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream, Mr. Bruno, 346-0251. Furniture store needs strong help to do work pertaining to furniture store such as delivering, window changing, moving furniture,· and so forth. Also need someone who can drive van. Part-time. Ras Furniture Interiors-37 4-7785. Campus rep to run spring br~ak vacation trip to Daytona To AII.Ciub Heads: your club Advertise meetings on the Campus News pages each week. Just fi II out a classified ad slip from the student ac- tivities booth and drop it off at the Concordy Office by 4 p.m. each T_uesday. ACROSS deity Last week's answers 1 Edible seed 67 Worm 4 Symbol lor DOWN tantalum 1 Frui.t seed 6 Fed the 2 Riddle poker pot 3 Paid notice 11 Native 4 South African American Dutch 13 Tidier 5 Cancel 15 Note of scale 6 Incensed 16 Herzog 7 Born or Kuenn 8 Sailors: 18 College colloq. degree: abbr. 9 Latin con- 19 A state: abbr. junction 2.:1 Entice 10 Argument 22 Quarrel 12 Negative 24 Arabian prefix chieftain 14 Badgerlike crew 26 Unit of Italian mammal 32 Profound currency: pl. 17 Seed coating 35 Estimates 28 Devoured 20 Helps 37 Post 29 Title of 23 Parent: 38 Detested respect colloq. 39 Worn away 31 Lascivious 24 Printer's 41 Halt 33 Spanish measure 43 s. Amer. article 25 Tolled animals 34 .Projecting 27 Pitcher 44 Pronoun tooth ~0 Provides 46 Printer's 36 Judge 38 Pronoun 40 African antelopes 42 Domain 45 Exist 47 Series of tennis games· 49 Heap 50 Chinese faction 52 Soaks up 54 Note of scale 55 Man's nickname 56 Postpone~ ment 59 Parent: colloq. 61 Longing 63 Crowns 65 Cupolas 66 Teutonic measure 48 Malice 51 Fierce 53.Mix 57 Before 58 Babylonian deity 60 Beast of burden 62 Conjunction 64 Note of scale Answers in Next Week's Issue Be• 010 Tr1 606 Fie 695 1 pr' Rc an . 9,: 1 av• Ofl SSI - Cl F witl tell rna. T I: co BR wa spe fun Bal tac 1 Im sor at Fri Qu ThE the p.n 1 ha~ flw nm mi1 F cor .A hel Ep Lot Sat froJ vat LoJ Tic doc 1 Clt Eq Sat a.n for ThE Wil An: or, sho pos opr Mo No GrE

r s s Beach. Earn free trip and money. Send resume to College Travel Unlimit~d, P.O. Box 6063, Station A, Daytona Beach, Florida 32022, or call (904) 672- 6955 or -6959. The Film Committee presents: \Broadway Danny Rose\ 11/2-11/4 at 7, 9, 11 p.m. and \The Candidate\ 11/7 at 7, . ~. Up.m. Tkkets are $1 and are avaHable at the Student Box Office. Films are shown in SS016. CLASSIFIEDS FOUND: Gold money holder withthree initials. If person can tell me the correct initials, they may claim such. 370-6112. Typing, call 382-5668. DON'T BE LEFT IN THE COLD. PLAN YOUR SPRING BREAK NOW! I need some warm bodies interested in spending 8 sun-filled days and 7 fun-filled nights in the Bahamas. For more info con- tact: Cristina, x6418, Box 1558. The Traditions of Improvisation Series, .spon- sored by the Arts. Department at Union College, continues Friday, Nov. 2, with the Quadrangee Jazz Ensemble. The concert is free and open to the public, and begins at 7:30 p.m. in Old Chapel. The jazz ,ensemble's music has Indian and African in- fluences and features an in- novative use of various rhyth- mic and melodic patterns. For further information, contact 370-6201 or 6202. A \Holly Day\ Bazaar will be held at Saint Matthew's Episcopal Church, 129 Old Loudon Road, Latham, NY, on Saturday, 10 November 1984 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Reser- vations can be made by calling Lorraine Eaton ( 237-2324). Tickets will not be sold at the door. The Willard Mountain Ski Club's Annual Used. Ski Equipment Sale will begin this Saturday, November 3, at 10 a.m., and will run orl both days for three consecutive weekends. The sale will take place in Willard Mountain's Base Lodge. Anyone having good used alpine or cross-country ski. equipment should drop it as early as possible to provide maximum opportunity for 8ale. Willard Mountain is off Route 40 in North Easton between Greenwich and Schaghticoke. Summer Seminars for Undergraduate Fellows in the Humanities. This program will offer students about to enter their senior year of college the opportunity to study significant texts in the humanities at a major research .institution under the direction of a distinguished teacher and scholar. Application deadline is Feb. 15, 1985. For more in- formation contact the Con- cordiensis office at X6155. Apartment: Van Wranken 3 bedroom flat; no pets. Security and references. Call393-4025, or after 5 p.m. call 393-9728. Student interested in typing, please contact 6227 (on campus) or 439-0817 (Home). Typing: term papers, theses, etc. done by executive secretary. $1 per page. Call Judy at 399-3383. Expert typing, $1 per page. Call Marge at 377-8345. Need a typist? .Contact Kathy Shecky, 399-4656 in the late afternoon. PERSONALS \Hello may I please speak to Harry Nuts.\ \Ya know.Exhale ... Demon Child\ \Do I dare eat a peach? ... but enough about the neighbors.\ \the Anonymous Slime\ Zeb-\R.T.S. rules ... bewate of the 3rd floor.\ \hey Maddogga, pinch noses much? .. .love the device.\ Love those big knees, Eliss Dave downstairs, welcome to the ten man suite. Ali, the yes club .. .let's discuss it over brunch. Lo, betcha ten bucks he ain't. \How brisk it is.\ Mr. J. and Mr. X. identify yourselves, or stop calling. By appointment only. Gar beware of the not so anonyinous lax stick thief, it's not over yet. Darron, embibe man. JeffJ just totally blow me off. Luv ya: S.W., M.O., R.G., D.H., J.Q1, E.S., D.C., A.A., L.S., D.Z., G.C., D.n, J.B.- Jack and Roofus An Ivy League Sprins in Nw..1 York Qualified juniors are invited to apply for admission to Columbia College as visiting students beginning in late January 1985. Full access to housing, library resources, and upper division courses. For further information and an application, write or call: ~Columbia College Admissions Office 212 Hamilton Hall New York, New York 10027 (212) 280-2521 FROGS DON'T SWEAT. Why . don't they catch fire? Because they don't get spyched on a couch! Mo-Love those lean legs, but wher~'s the firm fanny? Dre-na~na-na! Scooch-Get out of the com- puter center. I miss you. Want to play Mexican? Jane D.: Who are you going to scoop next? I think I warit two scoops. Love, your friend with the coot. glasses. Wendy: When are we going to dinner? I'm hungry for Hot Rolls and lots of creamy butter. Have you called security lately? Meg-I love you!-Smitty Chester-Why don't you ever play with me? I promise I won't bite!-Love, Smitts Francie, Do you really love daddy or are you just using him? Koz: Thanks for the memory- -burn me-s'more, please! Love, Ann G. Julie f!nd Linda-Always remember the old saying: The opera's not over till the fat \OGGIE\ sings! But, who is \OGGIE anyway? Love someone who knows his brother David, Marc, A. Bland, It wouldn't have been half as much fun without hou! I love you, Me Skyd-You \legal eagle\ ... Congratulations! Law School watch out, here we come. Love, Nance R Yeah! It's here. Remem- ber-one night in exchange for two chocolate chip cookies. ~N SP- Your very first personal of the school year,and I'm damn proud to send it to you (wanted it to be a surprise)! Please don't kiss my feet too many times - they get all queer. Here's to apartment life ... minus the friends, one boyfriend, and posters! Let's rock on Friday night, kiddo. Your pal-Ka Skyd: Congratulations on your castlessness. We'll see you on the turf! Ciao Bella! Wrong key, wrong \chalet burns and scars, tickets, fires, trivial pursuit, fog, and lots of alcohol... We want s'more! ! D.M.S.-Have a great weekend--See ya' when it's over ... K.A.A. Scott K . ....:\ History .for\ $10, Jack .. .'' I promise I'll never be your Trivial Pursuit partner again! Love, Sue )3 Michel, Groverths D:.ryths are numbered! Your th~uffocating, thstiitemate To Tri Delta-Joel, get off the Dear Kidnappers: Thanks for babysitter! We love you, even. an amazing birthday. Love ya- _ Sony and Jackie, Ace Reporters s Ka and Jill: So we're going out to dinner tonight? Let's go for salads .. .in Montreal! Thanks for everything. Love always, Me Dear Marc, Ann and David: Just remember, \Nothing Matters in Vermont.\ Love ya, Afgan blond To my roommates: Just want you to know that Mr. Walkinan and I are getting along very well. You guys are great match- makers. Thanks for everything. Lots of love, Me. Moose--This Bud's for you!! Thanks for getting wet for us. Love- The Charles Crew John-Thank you for all your help. We couldn't have done it without you. Love-Andrea, Karen, Georgia, Gail, Olivia, Sandy, Ann-Marie ancl Darcee Terry, at Phi Delt, been feeling spontaneous lately?? Attention: Fen~l, Parge, Hane, and Berrill-J ock-strap raid scheduled for tonight at 4 a.m. You know where to meet us. Don't forget the pails. Berrill, you now realize what you realize. You've got The Clue. Welcome to UPP-isn't life strange?? Actually, it's pretty HEINOUS, Love from \Hane\ DAD-Thanks for everything ('specially for Sat. night) Love, MOM f'ony, Cheer up. You're sooo dull! Boring Lisa and Kelly: We're having ahelluva time HO! Ho! You insane driver! Deth! . J.M., Here's your personal! Good luck Friday night! Eh! -M Dinkle and Dinkle: You Bonin? I'm Bonin. Bonin Bonin. Joe Mama's Bonin. Joe Mama's Mama's Bonin. Brutal! We love you guys! To Amy Queen of South, Those who cook in the raw are very likely to get burned! D- You are doing a superior job! Only one more week!! Love ya-Noogie Trojans-We went to Boston. Rowed on the Charles and we were happy!! 'Cause as Rea says \We're a gutsy crew!\ Union Crew-Great Skellar Practice last week. When's our next practice? We want more boat races!! Oh-Geoff-been to the library lately?! ! TROJANS-WE ROW 99 PERCENT EFFECTIVELY!! Des: Welcome back! We missed you. By. the way, gesundheit! Love, your sisters Prisoner, 29, college grad., non-violent, seeks visitors and correspondents. Ronald Davidson No. 76A1166 Elmire Prison, Elmire, N.Y. 14902-500. PERSONALS & CLASSIFIED ADS Must be typed and submitted to the Concordy office or Box 2577 by 5 p.m. Tuesday. Forms are available at the Box Office Have you boughtvour 1985 YEARBOOK yet? Buy one today in the Student Activities Off. - $23 (Starting Dec. 1st the cost wi II be $25.00) FOUR SEASONS CHINESE RESTAURANT if' Phone: 393-5440/393-5441 . . #~~ ~:,. . Specialize in Cantonese, Szechuan & Hunan Hours: Sun-Thu. - 11:30-10:00 Fri.-Sat. 11: 30-11: 00 Take Out of or Eat in c 0 '2 ;:) Not! rrrace We're in Walking Distance We prepare our foods .with. • • Just a Little Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot of experience

Page 14 CONCORD/ENS/.\; Nmemher /, 1984 THE ARTS Collins Plays Proctor's Judy Collins, tamed folk singer, performed at Proctor's last Thursday night. By MICKEY BRADLEY staf.f Judy Collins is so prolific an artist that it is easy to take her for granted and forget some of her many accomplislunents. In her twenty-three year career she has published a book, starred as a professional ac- tress, produced and co-directed an Oscar-nominated doc1:1mentary, writteN articles for various magazines, and been at the forefront of the women's liberation movement throughout the 1970's. She is currently serving on the board of directors for the National Dance Institute, the Wonder Woman Foundation, and the Atari Institute for Educational Action Research. But primarily, she is one of the most· talented songwriters to have emerged in the past two decades, a fact that was in Hall and Oates Jam By STEVE PIRAINO Staff On Sunday night, October 28, Daryl Hall and John Oates performed at The Lake Placid Olympic Center. It was the second stop on their \Big Bam Boom'' national tour. Sponsored by Pontiac Fiero and MTV, the band appeared to be caught uo in their commercial success and tried too hard to promote their new album. That may seem like a cynical statement, but this band seems to have \sold out.\ The best performances of the night occurred when they played their older material. Hits such as \Rich Girl,\ \Wait For Me,\ \Kiss On My List\ and \You've Lost That Loving. Feeling'' were the biggest crowd pleasers. They also opened the show with a great version of their latest hit, \Out of Touch.\ The only lulls in the show happened when they played their new unfamiliar songs (not less than five off the new album). The crowd at the Olympic Center was sparse to say the least. The arena itself was not that large, yet there were many empty seats. This may have happened because the band was also booked to play at Glens Falls on Tuesday. The small crowd was controlled by many security men; fans were forced to stay in their seats. Only rarely was a teeny-bopper allowed to go up front and hand her idols stemless roses. The calm crowd must have taken away from tile performance; the band lacked energy and at times did not show much emotion. The charismatic Daryl Hall sported a suede jacket, a sleeveless t-shirt and black pinstripe jeans while his part- ner John Oates wore a sleeveless \Big Bam Boom\ t- shirt. wild fluorescent orange baggy pants and funky high top Nike sneakers (his pants were the same color as his guitar). The duo were backed by G.E. Smith (short for Great Entertainment) on lead guitar, saxophonist Charlie (Mr. Casual) DeChant, drummer Mickey Curry and Tom T. Bone Wolk on bass. Throughout the show, Hall displayed his versatility by playing both guitar and keyboards. His soulful voice saved the show. Hall and Oates are originally from Philadelphia, and much of their musfc contains the Philly, street corner, doo-wop sound. The band sounded great when they performed a c:appella or mixed in harmonized background vocals, but too often their voices were dwarfed by the tinny sound of Smith's cranking guitar solos. Smith's solos coupled with the hockey rink's poor acoustics gave me a headache rather than adding to the fine music of Hall and Oates. Finally, an attempt to justify the previous statement in regards to their \selling out.\ The band must be criticized on their song selection. Most of the material performed was from either \Big Bam Boom\ or \H20 their two newest albums. They did not play either ·•sara Smile\ or \She's Gone,\ two of their best songs from the past. A friend of mine commented that they have too many hits to play everything. Well, there were people in the crowd who were in their forties and some. more of the older music would have appealed to them. Another appearance of Hall and Oates' commercial success could be seen in the lqbby before the concert. T· shirts were selling for $12, concert books for $7 and buttons for $2; give me a break! Though the concert on the whole was pretty good, it could have easily been much better. Next time around Hall and Oates should leave the t-shirts, etc. at home and play some of their older, more appealing tunes with less fanfare. Also appearing that night was Xavion, a black heavy-metal band from Tennessee. They were unique to say the least, though one could think of some other adjectives to describe them. The lead singer wore tight zebra striped pants to show off his \physique.\ He strutted around the stage trying to be a combination of Prince and David Lee-Roth. Nobody could be Prince except for Prnce and why would anyone want to act like David Lee- Roth? These guys played crap! Also, why were they chosen to open for Hall and Oates? Their music (if you can call it that) didn't belong on the same bill. Xavion gets a Xero! Mountebanks to Perform 'Jacques Brei' Nov. 8- 17 at Union College ''Jacques Brei Is Alive and Well and Living in Paris\ will be presented by Mountebanks, Union College's student dramatic group, Nov. 8-lOand 13-17 at the College. Performances begin at8 p.m. each night in the Nott Memorial. Tickets are $3 for students, $4 for facultY. and staff and $5 for the general public, and are available at the Nott Memorial Ticket Office. For further information, contact the Arts Department, 370-6201 strong evidence Thursday night when she and her talented band played Proctor's Theater. Trying to categorize this lady's musical style based on the songs she performs is about as easy as trying to categorize her art. form based on the in- formation above. She has recorded everything from folk to rock to country, and is en- dlessly experimenting with new styles (her latest album, Home Again, has everything from a country duet with T.G. Shep- pard on the title cut, to a cover of the new wave-synth band Yaz's \Only You\). Her per- formance at Proctor's included a smattering of many styles (sometimes within the same song), concentrating mostly on her sultry ballads and mid- tempo folk-pop hits. Collins' mezzo-soprano was in top form throughout the evening, hitting every note with uncanny perception. Her unique arrangements and beautiful phrasing on such songs as \The Rose,\ \City of New Orleans,\ and \In My Life\-which are exactly the kinds of songs you want to hear Judy Collins in- terpret--brought fresh per- spective to them and made them her own. It also breathed new life into her own standards, such as \Both Sides Now,\ \Someday Soon,'' and \My Father.\ And even though she has performed her signature song, \Send in The Clowns,\ several hundred times since recording it in 1975, she still finds something in it that breaks her heart. Collins developed an im- .mediate rapport with the audience, chatting freely between songs (and sometimes during them) about everything from her high school days to the loose-fitting shoes she was wearing. She also got in some good-natured jabs at Bette Midler (\the woman who taught Cyndi Lauper how to dress\) Ravi Shankar, music video, and-would you believe-Burl Ives, to name a few. And Ms. Collins hasn't lost her political bent either; urging voters to register and expressing her admiration for Gerldine Ferraro. One of her new songs, \Shoot First,\ deals with glorified T.V. violence and handgun control, and a portion of its proceeds will be going to a gun-control alliance group. Her small touring band consisted of Shelton Becton on keyboards and vocals, Frank Vilardi on drums, and Zev Katz on bass and keyboards. Collins occasionally played guitar or accompanied herself on. piano, and aU of the pieces were given tasty arrangements. But the key instrument of the evening was Judy Collins' remarkable voice, which glided gracefully across the surface of the songs like a skate on ice. She per- formed for an hour and a half, then graciously encored with a beautiful rendition of the Beatles' \In My Life\ and an a capella \Amazing Grace\ (her recorded version of that standard still ranks as one of the longest running charts hits in England). She invited the audience to join her fu her final song, stating· \I've decided I don't have to be Republican to believe in God.'' The combination of the woman's irrespressible wit, warm intimacy with her audience, and formidable musical talents made for an extremely enjoyable evening. Judy Collins may have come a long way and done it all, but she shows no signs of slowing down. At 45, she's still going strong. Opening for Judy Collins was magician Peter Samelson. Probably the toughest problem facing a magician these days is finding a unique delivery and stage presence, and that is a hurdle that Samelson has yet to conquer. Samelson tried to be flashy and show-biz,.like, hut came off sounding glib and contrived. He also ex- perimented with such cornball conventions as a melodramatic Houdini tribute, and an awk- ward \mag1cian-with-a-mes- sage\ bit .(while putting on a straight jacket, he observed, \This is a straightjacket. In life, there are drugs, alcohol, and tobacco. These can also be straightjackets,\ as if he were performing for a junior high school) . This wouldn't have been so bad, but he performed such \magic\ as Chinese linking rings and rope illusions- the kinds of tricks your younger brother used to do from his magic kit when your grand- parents came over-that did little to add to his credibility. Samelson does have an im- pressive list of credentials to his name--some European tours ·and extensive workshop-type experience worldwide--but he needs to find a comfortable style and some more deman- ding tricks to liven up his show. VISIT The Internationally Acc!aimed Alternate Dining Experience on Campus THE AMAZING (STUPENDOUS) ROCK·N-ROLL PIZZA PUB Featuring: Damn Awesome Pizza Scrumptious Subs Famous Cookies Popcorn Etc .•• THIS WEEK'S SPECIAL Buy One Topping Get One Free! - - m ra ta la h~ th Cl R• s~ G, de re ro pr R: ni in 01 th pl h~ qt di sl' so gE R1 dE re th co J;: cr J( se cl e) gE th

llins or ano, iven the per- a the of hits the ~d I to the her an g. she wn. a t to be but ex- a be ~se ~er his he ble CONCORIJIEN5;Js. Noremha /, 1984 Page 15 THE ARTS Night Owls Rock the Rat By ERIC LIPMAN Staff choice in the first round, was Queen's ''A Crazy Little Thing Called Love,\ if cmly because the guitar work was most convincing of the three. It was a revival of· how things used to be, as the Night Owls rolled back the tired wooden tables in the Skeller, to perform last Friday. The posters they had tacked on the wall behind them featured such names as Chuck Berry, Buddy Holly, The Rolling Stones-while making special mention of John, Paul, George, and Ringo, This, no doubt, was part of their credo; remembering the currents in roc~ that were, shall we say, pre-Van Halen. Yet the Skeller Rats who assembled on that night did not seem to mind; in fact; it was as if the Night Owls had actually climbed from the jukebox in the corner, playing tunes people would have gladly plunked their quarters in to hear on any or- dinary Friday. Their second set can best be described as a tribute to the glory that was the Beatles; an eleven song walk down memory land. Theonlyproblern was that the Night Owls would follow an upbeat and bouncy tune like \I Saw Her Standing There,\ with a slower, more thoughtful one like \Yesterday.\ These wild swings in tempo stunned the audience,· whom I' thought would explode onto the dance floor if only given the right nudge. Instead, they sat glued to their seats, ,until that nudge, as it were, weuld come in the .final set ... Mercedes McCambridge and Phyllis Somerville star in Marsha Norman's award winning play \'night Mother.\ \ 'night, Mother\ reviewed . . . Witl:)out question, the apex of the evening was the Night Owls' Intense Night Downtown In the first set they started slowly, playing to the dozen or so early arrivals, and generally getting used to the place. The Rolling Stones' \Beat of Bur- den\ was an early favorite, registering the best response on the applause meter, and ac- companied by some wild Mic Jagger imitations from the crowd around Spy Hunter. Billy Joel's \Piano Man\ was a close second in the Night Owls' fare, a clear winner among the teary- eyed turtleme~k types, generally found in the booths at the back of the Skeller. My own · rendition of Bob Seger'.s classic \That Old Time Rock and Roll.\ The mix was perfect: it was a song that had obvious personal significance to the band members, one that the crowd both knew and loved, and was highly dan~eable. From this point on, the dancefloor would be crowded with happy Skeller-goers, and the evening would close a success. My only final note wo.tild be, that if you also like old-time rock and roll, the Night Owls are definetely worth your time-especially if they are playing in their perfect locale, the Skeller. By KIMBERLY HANCOCK Staff Rarely does on~ ·have the opportunity to witness such an intense drama as '\night Mother,\ which played at Proctor's last Friday night. Marsha Norman's Pulitzer Prize-winning play starred Mercedes McCambridge and Phyllis Sommerville as Thelma and Jessie Cates, the eccentric mother and suicidal daughter around whom the play centers. McCambridge and Som- merville's brilliance onstage enabled them to entrance the audience and hold them cap- TRADITIONS. OF IMPROVISATION All concerts at 7:30, Arts Department Recttal Hall, Unton College. Schenectady, NY Friday, Nov•mb•r 2, 1984 Quadrangle Jazz Ensemble Tom Ross, Bob Kolb, Jeff Fuller, Ignacio Berroa ·· Friday, January IS, 1985 Glass Harmonica, Voice, Piano Julie Ka,pat, Marilyn Crispell Friday, F•bruary 21, 1985 lntr6duction to the Music of West Africa with Master Drummer Abraham Kobina Adzinyah Friday, Rprll 19, 1985 With Piano and Drums Jeff Presslaff, David Nelson Friday, May 17, 1985 Music with Microprocessor Ron Kuivila Free admtsston to concerts lnformatton: (518) 370-6201 I 370-6202 Black Sheep makes their triumphant return to Union .on Thursday, Nov. 8. The band is currently blowing audiences away up and down the east coast. ' tivated throughout their night of fears, guilt and confessions. The entire play focused on one night, the night that Jessie decided to commit suicide. She tries to convey to her mother the ten years of fear, pain and anguish that led to her ultimate decision to end her life. A middle-aged woman, Jessie has seen nothing but sorrow in her lifetime. She has been subject to epileptic fits since the age ef five, a fact her mother shamefully refused to admit to her until Jessie was a grown woman. Her father, to whom she was very close, committed suicide. Her husband left her, as did her criminal son who ac- tually stole her jewelry to support his drug habit. Jessie's only evident reason for living seems to be to take care of her mother. In contrast with her daughter, Thelma seems totally content . with her life full of television, puzzles and candy. At first she tries to deal lightly with Jessie's announcement of her suicidal intentions. When Jessie tells her mother she must kill herself, Thelma's reply is that she would probably miss and shoot her ear off. These remarks, although providing the audience ::~ith some lighthearted hlln1or, c\OQtributed heavily to the degree of urgency of Jessie's situation. '\'Jessie continues to ignore thes'e'Comments, trying repeatedly., to convey her feelings of pain, sadness and frustration to her mother. She wants her mother to upderstand why she wants to end her life. Jessie compares her situa~ion to riding on a bus where it is· so crowded, hot and noisy that one feels compelled to get off-only one can't because it's 55 blocks until her stop. She uses this bus analogy to describe the preceding ten years of her life, only now Jessie concludes that it doesn't matter how far she is from her stop-she's getting off anyway. McCambridge skillfully changes Thelma's attitude from monotonistic humor to im- mense guilt as Jessie repeatedly asks all the unan- swered questions she has pondered all her life. The emotion evoked bv their verbal volleys kept the audience on the edge of their seats as they discovered the real reasons behind Jessie's suicidal at- titude. Thelma's concern for Jessie becomes very sincere as she uses everything in her power to talk Jessie out of killing herself. She vainly offers to totally change their lives in order to keep her daughter alive, but it is to no avail, as each offer reinforces Jessie's determination to die. Thelma is finally overcome with guilt and becomes insistent that everything is her fault. Her anguish heightens as Jessie flees--gun in hand--to her bedroom with a fleeting \ 'night Mother.\ Subsequently, the .shot and the end. · McCambridge and Som- merville were superb both together and individually. Their performances in the play, which was very successful when on Broadway, touched everyone in the audience. McCambridge, a very diversely talented actress, has to her credit an Academy Award for her performance in her premiere film, All the King's Men. She has also starred on radio, on Broadway, in her own T.V. series and has authored two books. Her im- mense talent and experience were evident as she tran- sformed herslef into Thelma Cates. derstudfeli-and performed the part of Jessie Cates on Broadway, had no trouble convincing the audience that she was a tormented young woman. Her acting expertise was evident as she managed throughout the show to keep that little bit of doubt in the minds of the audience as to whether or not she really was going to kill herself. \\ 'night Mother\ was a superbly written play that could be related to by every generation. The play meant different things to different people. One woman commented to her husband, \You wouldn't understand why I was crying- you were never a mother.\ Norman's script enabled inner conflicts, conflicts between mother and daughter as well as conflicts between living and the dead to be easily conveyed to the audience. Everyone was held spellbound throughout the play, not a rustle or whisper was heard, because of the in- tensity of the story. Everyone emerged contemplating their past and present relationships because the storv was so real to e\·rryone who had ever been filleLi with Stl much frustration that they wished they would die. Jessie's death surfaced the recognition in each of us that we should be thankful for our life and live it to the fullest. Overall, the play was an immense success. The ac- tresses, director, author, and everyone involved should be greatly commended.

Page 16 (ON( 'ORD/f.'NS/.\', .VOI'emba I, I 98./ CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS Since 1877 Serving the Union Community for 107 years Lipton Presents Paper J.ack P. Lipton, assistant professor of psychology, presented a paper at the XXIII International Congress of Psychology held in September in Acapulco, Mexico. The title of the paper was \Leader Ethnicity and Group Com- position: Individual Produc- tivity and Leader Performance Evaluations.\ The Congress convenes every four years under the auspices of the International Union of the Psychology . .Sciences. While in Mexico, Lipton also presented a paper ttiled \Ethnocentrism in the U.S.A. and Chicano Social Psychology: Towards a General Interactive Theory\ at the biannual VII International Congress of Cross-Cultural Psychology. Lipton, a graduate of UCLA, received an M.A. degree from California State University, Northridge, and a Ph.D. from the University of California, Riverside. His general teaching interests include social psychology, sex roles, per- sonality, community psychology, consumer psychology and advertising, psychology and law, and psychology of prejudice. He has been a member of the faculty at Union since 1980. Admissions Sponsors Program The Admissions Staff of Union College will present a program titled \Union: The College Next Door'' Thursday, Nov. 1. Designed for prospective area students and their parents, the program begins at 7:30p.m. in Social Science Building Room 016. The evening will begin with a brief presentation by faculty arid students on life at the College, bOth academic and extracurricular. Following will be refreshments and informal conversation in Old Chapel. The public is invited .to attend. Nydegger Named Consultant Rudy Nydegger, asso~iate professor of psychology, was named a .cansultant on the Professional Advisory Com- mittee -of the Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Council of the American Lung Association. He was also named as the Psychological Representative of the Professional Liaison Committee· of the National Hospice Association. As such, he will work with represen- tatives of other Hospice professions· and will be the representative for psychologists working with aospice around the country. Nydegger holds B.A. and M.A. degrees from Wichita State University, and a Ph.D. in clinical psychology from Washington University. He joined Union's faculty in 1977, and has served as acting dean of students and chairman of the Department of Psychology. He serves as part-time staff psychologist at Ellis and St. Clare's Hospitals in Schenec- Learn English! Intensive English Language Program SUNY at ALBANY • English study for non-native speakers 16 Week Sessions • 8 Week-Summer • Cultural-Recreati- onal Activities • Small Classes • ALL LEVELS grammar, reading, composition, listeni- ng, conversation • TOEFL test prep. Spring Semester: January 21, 1985 Information: 457-$072 ex 119 Union Coil~ filrnCDrrJmttl:.ee -Pr-esents- Nov. • 13roadway DaNNY l<ose/, ~ 3-r·'-1 - 5SOllo- 1:ti)-r- j 0 , ) tady and as Mental Health Consultant for Hospice of Schenectady. · ·f'IOliJ 1/V 1 _.· ~~6' . tr ::;;~ t~~~ ... ~ )-. , . His areas of expertise include clinical and abnormal psychology, personality theory, thinking and brain activity and the Hospice movement. ~oncor ~3{· j)~~ ultn5l5 ·:l ~~~, .. () ...... ' '\\ 1 c~zr~, Computer Naming '\'«cn.o< The contest aimed at finding a name for each of the three new VAX computers to be installed in December will end next Monday, November 5, 1984. You've been reading it in Coneordy . ~ **Showdown '84** ARMS CONTROL CIVIL RIGHTS ~ .. ., Dl<' &r..A N ~ r\' RFAr.AN Nuclear freeze. YES NO Equal Rights YES NO . uStar Wars\ NO YES Amendment. program, Equal pay for YES NO MXmissile. NO YES work of com- · Bl bombel'. NO Y.m> parable worth. Increase in ·de- ~-4% 7.5% Constitutional NO YES fense spending. amendment to CENTRAL AMERICA prohibit abortion. Affirmative .. Calls for Opposes .. .., u,, &r..A N action. \verll.'lable quotas • U.S. Aid YEs measure- NO -ments.\ to Nicaraguan Voting Rights Supported. Signed after rebels. Act of 1981. Initial U.S. Aid to Tie to human YES opposition. El Salvador. rights. Busing to lnte- YES NO \Contadora YES wavering. grate schools. process\ for negotiated THE ENVIRONMENT settlement. U.S. military Remove all YES In MONnAi.E REAGAN in Central foreign forces. -Honduras. Pollution con- YES NO America. trois to reduce '· Mining of NO YES acid rain. Nicaraguan Increase fund· YES No position. harbors. lng for hazard· THE ECONOMY ous waste Superfund. Compensate YES No position. M\\,..., ••. ,., Dl1 AI\'.A M toxic exposure victims. How to cut Thxreform, Strong Thx hazardous YES No position. federal deficits. cut military economic waste generators, spending recovery for HIGHER EDUCATION Increases increased revenue, cut MONDALE REAGAN spending. Balanced NO YES Federal stu- Wlll Cut in 1981. Budget dent loans, strengthen. Amendment. - grants, oth .. raid. Jobs for youth. Thrgetted Supports Abolish NO YES training subminimum Department of programs. wage. Education. Sources: Congressional Quarterly, 1984 Democratic National Platform, 1984 Republican National Platform, The Washington Post. • National Student Campaign for Voter Registration 37Temple Place, Boston, MA02lll (617) 357-9016 . NEW PREREGISTRATION PROCEDURES Beginni·ng this term, new procedures will be in effect for course preregistration. A preliminary Winter Term course schedule, as well as the required student preregistration form, .will be available to all students beginning Monday, November 12. Students should review this document and, in consultation with their advisors, plan a conflict-free schedule. In order to preregister for their courses, students will need to pick up the appropriate course-section .cards. These cards will be available Wednesday morning, November 14 in Alumni Gym and after that date in the office of the appropriate department. Once students have acquired the cards for their three courses, they should fill out their preregistration forms and bring them, with the three course-section cards, to the Registrar's Office in Silliman Hall. THE APPROPRIATE COURSE-SECTION CARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR PREREGISTRATION FOR EACH CLASS INCLUDING SENIOR THESIS AND INDEPENDENT STUDIES. After the initial distribution in Alumni Gym on November 14, cards for Freshman Preceptorials, Engineering Science courses, Liberal Learning courses, and Engineering Liberal Learning courses will be available in the office of .the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies (SlOO of the Science & Engineering complex). Course-section cards for ,aiJ other courses which do not correspond to a particular department, i.e., Latin American Studies, Comparative Communist Studies, Organizing Theme, etc., will be distributed by the Registrar's Office in Silliman Hall. Preregistration (the act of turning in one's course-section selections at the Registrar's Office) will extend from Wednesday November 14 until Friday, November 30. Anyone who fails to preregister within this timeframe will be assessed a $25 late fee. It is important for all students to understand the changes to past preregistration practices. 1) Students must preregister for the particular section of a course (including lab sections) that they desire. 2) No one will ·be allowed to preregister without the appropriate course-section card. 3) Distribution of the course-section cards will begin at 9:00a.m. Wed- nesday, November 14 in Alumni Gym. Further distribution will be from the relevant office. 4) Each student may preregister for courses ONLY ONCE! Any subsequent change will be processed at the drop-add station in the gym during registration. 5) Course-section cards will NOT be valid after November 30 . ' ( \ b jl jl tl 1' tl is tt ol st si in R in R tt tt ol c p: B a jc in Y' tE rr \ sl IT pi s1 V1 dl s1 p: fr s1 a tl s1

-·-- CONCOROII:'NSI!·;', Nol'emher I. 1984 Pa~e 17 - ----4 ---·-· ~ -- \~-·----~- - ·- ·-- ,._., --- - --- - THE ARTS EM B$ 'f' t¥ ;,spy. Cjoumgegdliearn At Union By LISA POSKANZER Staff You've seen him many times on Saturday Night Live. He's performed his art on The Tonight Show and \20-20\ Newsmagazine. And on Friday, November9, Michael Davis will astound the Union community with his unique blend of comedy and juggling in Memorial Chapel at 8:00 p.m. Best known as \that funny juggler from 'Saturday Night Live,' \ Michael is more aptly described as a comedian who uses juggling to punctuate his unique brand of humor. Davis performs an amazing array of feats that include axes, bowling balls, raw eggs, and meat cleavers, narrating throughout with his characteristic deadpan delivery. Hence the ··term \cjoumgegdliearn a com- bination of comedian and juggler. Michael Davis started out by joining an improvisational theatre group in the early 1970's. He found himself in- trigued with the art of clowning and was one of the few who attended Clown College. He became a full-time down with the Ringling Brothers Ckcus upon graduation. · After several years ·Of circus life on the road, Michael Davis , returned to his native San Francisco where he became a popular street entertainer- drawing customers away from the stores, much to the shopkeepers dismay. Davis was spotted by a talent agent in 1979 and was hired to perform on HBO's \The Young Comedian's Show,'' his first major television appearance. He spent a year with the New York production of \Sugar Babies.\ His notices brought him to the attention of \Saturday Night Live\ 's -producers, resulting in seven guest appearances on the NBC series. A Command Performance at the Ford Theatre found Michael Davis .in the company of Liza Minnelli, Ben Vereen, and Natalia Markarova. He has been honored by his peers with • a Drama Desk Nomination and Dance Revived By ALESIA A. HENRY Staff The dance program at Union is slowly· being brought to life thanks to the careful attention of Michael Steele, a ballet in- structor who has been at Union since January, 1984. He also instructs at his own Ballet Regent School in Saratoga and instructs the Guilderlands. Michael Steele was born in Roanoke, Virginia, but prefers the Saratoga area to the \sleepy\ town of Roanoke. He then was a student at the School of American Ballet in New York City and was a member of the prestigious New York City. Ballet for eleven years. Needing a change, Mr. Steele then journeyed to Europe \to dance in the big opera houses for four years,\ before taking up teaching. Union's dance program at the moment, says Mr. Steele, is \poor and coming along very slowly.\ Steele hopes to play a major role in building up the program, but sees a few ob- stacles in the way 1 such as a very low budget for the dance department. He contends that students need some type of physical outlet . to vent their frustr~tions and tension after studying, and he hopes to be able to provide this. \I realize that this is a school where the students' first responsibility is to academics, but one must have an outlet in order to get refreshed from studying.\ Another major obstacle that Steele sees is that there is ''little interest; however, the interest that is there is serious. I hope -that the new studio that the school is building will peak interest.\ The new dance studio, locat~d on the first floor of tbe Arts building, is supposed to be finished by. November 1, but it is likely that construction will run about two or three weeks over. \I'm very excited about this studio,\ Steele exclaimed. \Union has waited a long time for this, and Dan Robbins is doing everything he can to encourage and build the dance department.\ Another development in the dance department is the for- ming of the new dance en- semble (modern repertory), for which Michael Steele will contribute a ballet piece to be performed in the new studio in the spring. \The new darice ensemble's production will not be esoteric; but fascinating. This type of thing has never been done at Union.\ Also in the spring will be the first dance theory class ever taught at Union. The instructor will be :Pa~ Peterson, who taught moij~. dance at Emma Willard. Have you bought your 1985·YEARBOOK yet? Buy one today in the $iudeni A~iivities Off o .. $23 (Starting Dec. 1st the cost wi II be $25.00) a Theatre World Award for Outstanding Actor in a musical for his performance in \Sugar Babies'' with which he con- tinues toteur, a show he calls \a great piece of Americana.\ Don't mi~s this special per- formance of a gifted young man who is decidedly more than just a juggler, a versatile performer who keeps his audience laughing aloud while dazzling them with his delcterity. Tickets are $1.00 for Union students; $3:00 for the public. As an added bonus, the first twenty-five people who sign up on a list in Mrs. Marra's office will get to meet Michael Davis at a reception in Milano Lounge immediately following the performance. So buy your tickets and sign up soon! This is one evening you won't want to miss! - Comedian/Juggler Michael Davi5 will bring hi5 5how to Memorial Chapel Nov. 9 at 8:00. ''Ins and Outs\ at the Nott ... Caught In Between By JOY RUNYON Staff Ins and Outs made its debut at Union's Nott Memorial on Saturday, October 27. The play is actually a pair of one-acts- the first, titled Ins; the second, titled Outs-written by Union graduate Sharon Rubin. Each play consists of two characters, in both played by Joseph Giardina and Deborah Laufer. According to the blurb on the play's program, Ms. Rubirf-is first an actress and then a playwright, and this is apparent in the quality of her work: Maybe she should have stuck with acting. Ins was the first to be per- formed. Giardina and Laufer starred as Jami and Marta, respectively, the two artists who meet on the beach and happen to fall in love. The difficulties which are to later appear in their relationship are subtly revealed in their first meeting. In a way, this detracts from the later, more visible conflicts in that the audience is not permitted to be surprised; there is not the same amount pf anticipation as there would·~ ·if the .conflicts were slowly developed. Jami is an \independently wealthy,\ handsome, young man who chances upon Marta, an__...actess who has abandoned her role in a play in favor of a life free from commitments, ties and roots. She falls into the very trap she was avoiding, however, when she meets Jami. The first scene is a rather awk- ward pick-up on the beach. Laufer is bland, unconvincing, and presents Marta in a most exaggerated manner. Although the pick-up lines are awkward and off-beat, Giardina, rather than allowing them to remain bumbling, gives them a certain boyish charm-although, at times, he is a bit too emphatic in his delivery of them. Jami in- vites Marta to dinner and, over red wine, they discuss the fine points of fr·eedom from com- mitments and the pros and cons of Marta falling in love with him. Marta, however, agrees to spend the night with him. In Jami's bedroom, she notices a torso sculpture of a woman: the girlfriend-manager whom Jami left behind in Italy. This prompts a series of rapid-fire questions and answers con- cerning this woman, Annie. Jami denies that h~ still loves her-and his denial almost has complete credibility. Whether the semi-feeble denial was intended or not is left up to personal interpretation. Marta, even though she has been reassured that he has no feelings for Annie, still lets the torso sculpture interfere with the time she spends with Jami; she cannot allow herself to feel any real security with him because she believes that old flame will be rekindled and she will suffer for it. Within three . weeks of living together, they have a major argument and split up, agreeing to meet in another three weeks to reassess their relationship. The argument that splits them up is a very superficial one indeed: It really had no importance as far as the realtionship goes, and it is improbable that any couple would find it imperative to separate because of this par- ticular argument. But that deficiency is more a flaw in the script than in the actors'· per- formance. At the end of the three weeks' separation, they meet again and run through a gamut of emotions that leaves the au<lience a bit confused as to how the play could have ended as it actually did. The set for the six-scene play was extremely simple and remained unchanged throughout the whole play. The table with two chairs and the low bed were placed so ·as to enhance the theatre-in-the- round atmosphere. However, it was too simple to carry the script well enough, as the script had the couple moving in and out of the bedroom, hall, kit- chen, etc.-not to mention the beach! Perhaps Ms. Rubin thought her script was good enough that it didn't need a . more elaborate set design, or that her 'script was so wor- thwhile-listening to that a fuller set would have been a distraction from the lines. Well, the script was good at times ... but not that good. - The script itself was usually mediocre, and acceptable at its best. Much of the dialogue was disconnected babblings about irrelevant subjects which in- terrupted the audience's. t!&ill of thought. The expressed emotions were disgustingly capricious: At one moment, Jami and Marta were at each other's throats and the next, in each other's arms-all with no . apparent transition. The background music-which consisted of Tina Turner's \What's Love Got to Do with It?\ Joey Scarbury's \Baby It's You,\ The Police's \Every Breath You Take,\ and Huey Lewis' \If This Is It\-gave more indication of how each emotion came to pass than did the script. Outs was the second in this pair of one-acts. It was better than Ins in all respects, although it is doubtful that it will be up for a Tony A ward this time around (or ever). Outs was better written, and more cogently performed, and had a more suitable set (although not more elaborate). It is the story of two artists- one, a legitimate artist; the other, a self-proclaimed artist- who find each other and then lose their love because of deception. Steven is a young man whose dream of being a real writer is finally being fulfilled, while Ella is a singer who sings with a piano man and wears too much ostentatious makeup. She often is ap- proached by the kind of non- gentlemen who frequent her nightclub. When Steven \rescued\ her from one of these pick-ups by confronting one of those men, Ella accepts the gesture gratefully, although she claims that the pick-ups are . harmless. From then on, the two fall in love and live together in Ella's tiny apartment on a very low combined salary, barely eking out a living; but they don'tmind: Hey, they're in love! Despite the love, there was one obstacle in their relationship, which was the fact that Steven was very open to and confiding in Ella; wlllle Ella was very closed and secretive about her feelings and her life. The <;ommunication between them seemed to work like a one- way street, but in the actual script, it appeared quite dif- ferent. The script was written in the narrative monologue form so that, even though the two characters were on stage together at all times, each was speaking to the audience about the other: a play of only asides The effect was excellent. It was interesting and refreshing to see that two people could t':<•· press their relationship :-.o exactly, even without dialogue. The climax, however, ap- propriately enough consisted of good, forceful. realistic Continued on page 18

Page 18 CON('ORDIENSJ.S: Nm·emherl. 1984 TH_E ARTS L2 ... I. Jazz Artists To_ Perform By EMILY LOOSE Staff At 7:30 p.m. on. Friday, November ·2 the Quadrangle Jazz -Ensemble will perform in Union's Old Chapel. This session in jazz is the second concert in a six-part series sponS()red by the Union CoUege Arts Department and designed by Assistant Music Professor Hilary Tann to acquaint Union students with international traditions of improvisational music. The Quadrangle Jazz Ensemble will give a tree concert at Memorial Chapel on Friday, Nov. 2. Jazz is the one indigenous American music form and evolves into composition through the freedom of im- provisation. A jazz composition varies widely with each collection of musicians to play itt Musicians blend their per- sonal playing styles variously, Production at N ott Continued from page 17 dialogue. Stev.en has made Q.imself out to be a starving artist and Ella had no reason to disbelieve him . . . until he brought her home to meet his parents. She was expecting a little tar-roofed shanty; she was brought to a grandiose mansion in an affluent neighborhood. The anger she felt at his deceptive ways was true to life. The dialogue that followed this revelation was not· nearly as superficial as some of the dialoge in Ins, but neither did it. reach its potential. For in- stance, when Ella pr.oclaims that Steven didn't really love her, that he was using her all along, and that she felt cheated, she ends the whole outburst with, \I don't think you were even her,\ to which there are better replies than the limp, \I love you. . . I love you.\ After that dialogue, the narrative monologue resumes. The set for Outs was also more appropriate than that of Ins. It was· comprised of two wooden chairs with a bottle of alcohol next to each-why the· alcahol is significant is anybody's guess..·- because neither char$ict-er drinks more than once, and it really isn't relevant. In the first play, there wasn't enough of a set; in the second, there was less of a set than in the first, but it was more effective. The acting reached its apex in Outs. Both Giardina ami Laufer went far. beyond the mundane acting they did in Ins. They had more expression, better timing, ·and were ·more convincing in their roles. Giardina put more feeling into his lines and shows himself to be an exceptional actor. If one had seen only Ins, one would not think much of Laufer; however, she turned in a surprisingly good per- formance in Outs. She also put more feeling into her role. The character of Ella was also a more complex character than that of Marta, and perhaps Laufer only needed the challenge to bring out her skills. The emotion which she infused ·into her role made Ella all the more credible with her lower- class Brooklyn accent, her gestures, her laughter, her tears, and her quirkiness. The choice of music was superb: The play was given a distinctive 1940's flavor by scratchy, tinny recordings of \boogie-woogie\ music, the Big Band sound, and tightly knit harmonies. Ins and Outs are a study in · contrast. This would seem to make them all the more com- patible; here, however, it juxtapositions them unequally and disturbingly. Rubin has no right to assume that anyone would want to sit through Ins, so the audience's best bet would be to.,arrive 40 minutes late as to .aVbid Ins and catch Outs. \American Dreamer\ Opens By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor-in-Chief \American Dreamer\ starts out like Agatha Christie's \Murder on The Orient Express,\ but spends the rest of its time playing like \Romancing The Stone.\ With striking similarities to two such successful films ill is no wonder that \American Dreamer\ is a sheer delight. This madcap comedy carries the viewer on a Whirlwind fantasy through France within a mere two hours time. Directed by Rick Rosenthal (\Bad Boys\) and produced by Doug Chapin with Barry Krost as executive producer, ''American Dreamers's\ screenplay is by Jim Kouf and David Greenwalt with a story by Ann Biderman. The music is by Lewis Furey. In \American Dreamer,\ JoBeth Williams (also star of this fall's \Teachers\) plays Cathy Palmer, a suburban housewife who enters a writing contest and subsequently wins the prize, a trip to Paris. In the contest, Palmer was to copy the premise of a well known mystery writer, Margaret McMann. McMann's character is a daring sleuth known as Rebecca Ryan. Once in Paris, Williams is accidently struck by a car and suffers amnesia. She takes on the identity of Ryan and spends most of the film in this role. Tom Conti plays Alan McMann, the son .of Margaret and as it turns aut, the actual writer of the Ryan novels. Williams finds Ctmti and brings him into her fantasy world as Dimitri, Ryan's partner in crime solving. Conti plays along with Williams and they soon find themselves in a web of intrigue with Victor Marshall ( Giancarlo Giannini), a French politician, at the center of it. Every actor is right on the mark in this picture. Williams plays Ryan with the necessary zaniness and Palmer with an expected wariness. Palmer is married to a relatively suc- cessful businessman who is about as exciting as a water- melon. Her two sons have in- sightful lines and are as precocious as most movie children, · but their parts are played well and they are en- dearing. Conti is wonderful as the English playboy in this film. His less than classic leading man looks have a puppy-like quality to them, reminiscent of the influx in the 1960's of such actors as Dustin Hoffman. The chemistry between Williams and Conti is fun to watch and the actors really seem to- be en- joying themselves. Giannini is marvelous as the debonair yet victimized Victor Marshall. The chase involving the three major characters is a delight to behold. This is one of the best comedies out right now. Don't miss it! \American Dreamer\ is currently playing at the U A Towne 1 & 2 in Latham, Mohawk Mall, and other local theatres. Each thursday at noon the Concordiensis is dropped off at Carnegie. PLEASE help carry a stack or two into Carnegie in on your way in if possible. Thank you. mimjd_dng one anather or co~trasting· .... their techniques, while followmg a basic: rhythm and melody from which they continuously depart into solos. or tangents and to which they return in varying degrees of regularity. Much progressive jazz has examined and incorporated international music forms for their similarity in im· provisational composition. Duke Ellington popularized this eclecticsm of style, creating an original style by ·the in- corporation of Indian and African music traditians. Performing together for a decade since undergraduate days at Yale and with several combinations of musicians, the ensemble playing tomorrow features Jeff Fuller on. bass, Bob Kolb on _tenor, alto, and soprano saxophones and flute, Torn Ross on guitar and adding vocals, and percussionist Royal Hartigan. Both Fuller and Kolb have perfor-med with Dave Brubeck, Fuller playing also with Zoot Sims and presently backing CBS artist Paquito d'Rivera. He has scored over thirty films and plays and composed for T.V-\ and radio, and holds a masters degree in composition from Yale. Kolb has backed such famous acts as Andy Williams, Tom Jones, Sammy Davis Jr., and Tony Bennett. Tom Ross, t.he creative force of the' ensemble, has studied Indian vocal music and various aspects of African percussion music, and composes much of the original music of the ensemble. He is currently a Ph.D. candidate and visiting teacher of guitar and com- position at Wesleyan U niver- sity. Filling out the ensemble as guest percussionist, Royal Hartigan, in the wards of Pr()f. rami, epitomises the Traditions af Improvisation series. Har- tigan has studied the music of. traditional Chinese theater, South Indian music with master musician T. Ranganathan, and the music of West Africa with master_ drummer Abraham Kabina Adzinyah. He is presently pursuing a masters degree at Wesleyan University, is a native of Pittsfield, and plays frequently in the Albany area. The ensemble will play a mixture of standard pieces of swing and fusion as well as original pieces exercising the group's experience in world improvisational music. Pr.of. Tann expects the performance to be rousing and hopes this concert Will make mare ac- cessible to Union students the more obscure forms of India.n and African music by demonstrating · ways in which these traditions have been in- corporated into . modern American music. The concert is free and the musicians will be available (after the performance) for an informal discussion . of their • music and the traditions from which it draws. Though both the first concert on October 5 and this second concert had. to be scheduled in the Old Chapel, the remaining four concerts of the series will be held in the new concert hall in the reconstructed Arts Building. Prof. Tann believes a regular schedule of such con- cert series, ideally offering two concerts per term, can oe 9.f vital encouragement to tile development of a lively com- munity of the arts at Union. . IDLE CONVERSATION A women's libber Remarked: \A man's logic is nothing against a woman's intuition.\ A male chauvinist Said, in reply: \Logic is nothing to a man while intuition is everything to a woman.\ Maria Lomotan Tom Conti and JoBeth Wil.liams star in \American Dreamer\ playing at UA Towne 1 & 2 in Latham and at the Mohawk Mall. - • • ~ • w St A S( L fii S( la A

of ith is ~rs a of as of. by rn an ~rt nd in ~ts of ---------------------l_'O_N_(_'l_J_R_l)_fi:'NSIS, N~t-n~·L·m~h~£~·r~l~. ~19~8~./~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R~ag~e~/~9 ORTS Athlete of the· Week By PAUL KURKER Sports Staff ~ongratulations goes to Doug Wtlk of the Men's Varsity Soccer team for garnering Athlete of the Week honors. The sophomore forward from Longmeadow, MA has been on fire lately as he has a six game scoring streak going into the last three games of the season. Among those goals are the game winner against Brandeis, the only goal of the first half against RPI, and two goals, including the game winner in the Dutchmen's 10-1 romp over Plattsburgh. Wilk is a two year starter for the nationally ranked Dutchmen and produced 11 points last year giving him 31 career points. Doug is a LiJ.;)eral Arts major and a brother of the Delta Phi fraternity. Doug Wi'IK Society for Women in Philosophy Eastern Division Fall Conference Nov. 3 & 4 at Union College SATU·RDAY, NOV.3 10:30--FE:MINIST CRITIQUE OF BUREAUCRACY, Hal1e House Lounge. Chair, Donna Catudal. Kathy Ferguson, Political Theory, Siena College; Miriam Isaacs, State University of New York. 2:00--1. I!? THIS BOOK REAL? The Phenomenology and Nuts-and- Bolts of Writing a Book, Hale House Lounge. Chair, Linda Nicholson. Linda Gardiner, Editor of Women's Review of Books (People with experiences to share about writing and publishing a book are en- couraged to join inJ 2:00--11 .. POWER AND ROLES, Milano Lounge. Chair, Reyes Lazaro. Margaret Nash, \Fantasy and the S/M Defense,\ Tamsin Lorraine, ''Power, Sex and s·& M,\ Judith Andre, \Role as a Complex Moral Concept.\ SUNDAY, NOV. 4 10:30 a.m .. --1. SESSION, Hale House Lounge. Chair, Kate Winninger. Christine de Stefano, \In Search of the Missing Mother: Maternal Subtexts in Political Theory,\ Jan a Sawicki, \Foucault & Feminism: Toward a Politics of Difference.\ 11:50 a.m.-- II. SESSION, Milano Lounge. Libby Potter, ''Feminism & the Crisis of Objectivity.\ Union Hudent.'l are inrite_d to all t~lthese talks MEN'S MINI SOCCER RED LEAGUE TEAM ~ Fiji Purple ZBT Del.ta Phi Phi Delta Theta Smith Rebels Sigma Chi Abo. Chi. Psi Rowdies WHITE LEAGUE WINS 3 2 2 2 2 0 0 0 Theta Delta Chi 3 Sigma Chi Blue 2 Third Herd 2 Hurricanes 2 Klingster Squad 2 Ooparts 1 Whalers 1 BLUE LEAGUE LOSSES 0 0 1 1 l l 2 3 1 1 1 1 2 2 3 Deita Chi 4 0 Albany Law 2 0 Fiji White 2 1 3rd Floor Fox 1 2 Ball-Busters 1 · 3 Acme Tools 1 3 Ph.i Sigma Kappa• o 2 CO - REC MINI SOCCER RED LEAGUE FOOTBALL STANQINGS 6 MAN FLAG FOOTBALL Eastern Divisio~: Theta Delta Chi 4-0 Phi .Sigma Kappa 3-1 Phi Delta \A\ l-1 Phi Catcha Passa 2-1 USOFF 2-1 ZB'l' 1~3 Islanders COL central Division: Sigma Chi Gold s-o Fiji Purple 3-0 Psi Upsilon 3-1 Delta Phi 3-1 Express 2-4 Enforcers OOL Meoff COL western Division: Fiji Gold 3-0 Phi Delta B 2-1 Chi Psi 2-1 Sigma Chi Blue 1-2 The Hapsters 1-2 zoo Crew 0-3 Co-ree FOOTBALL Sigma Chi 4-0 Phi Sigma Kappa 3-1 Fox-North 2-2 No Name 2-2 Goat Head soup 2-2 The Bobcats 2-2 3 MAN BASKETBALL Eastern Division: Fiji Purple 6-0 Raiders S-0 Flying Tigers 2-1 Phi Delta 3-2 Delta Chi 2-3 First Team 1-4 Phi Sig 1-4 K-People 0-6 western Division: Theta Delta Chi 4-0 :;;i.gma Chi 4-0 XQBC 4-l Chi Psi 2-1 Fiji A 2-3 Phi Sig 0-2 Zoo Crew 0-4 ZBT 0-4 WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL Posker 's Players 4-0 2nd Fl.oor wesy 3-1 4th Floor North 2-2 DG Crazies 2-2 Fox 1-2 Richmond OOL Special Event Notes: -Men's platform tennis doubles finals: Dan Bruckman and Chris Hutchins .Y!_ Brad Haigis and Dave Factor ScottWykoH On SportS .Saturday's football game with Middlebury marks the an- niversary of the Panthers' 24-21 victory over the Dutchmen. Last y~ar's victory was a big one for our friends to the north. t For a year they could boast -g_ about ending the nation's ,_ second longest winning streak. · As big a win as it was for the Panthers, the loss was quite a big one for the boys from Schenectady. The blemish cost Union The Lambert Trophy as the number one team in the east and very nearly cost AI Bagnoli's ~quad an NCAA play- off bid. As we all know the story had a happy ending for the garnet as they did get the play- o.ff berth, but ask any Dut- chman about Middlebury College and you'll be sure to get a growl. Coming off one of their most satisfying performances of the year the 7-0 Dutchman look to pay the Panthers back for what transpired on that cold, grey afternoon in Vermont. According to the numbers, the home team should not have much trouble making it 8-0 for '84. The . Panthers travel to Schenectady this week coming off a 49-31 drubbing at the hands of Hamilton. The loss was 12th year Head Coach Mickey Heineken's. worst defeat since 1982 (28-() loss to Union) and dropped the Panther:s record to 1-5. But if you think the Dut- chman are taking these Pan- thers lightly just think again. Though the Panthers have only woo a single game, com- pared to five losses, four of those· five setbacks were decided late in the fourth quarter. Middlebury College, despite its losing record, has a great deal of football tradition that can't be overlooked. During the 12 year reign of Heineken the small Vermont liberal arts college has become one of the COUI1tr~ s cia ss football operations. Known for his high powered Wing- T of- fense, Heineken coached teams have only lost to Union on one occassion in the last 12 years. The thirty six Panthers returning from last year's squad know that a win this Saturday cotild erase all the bad memories of their five previous setbacks. Though a number of top Panther players~ have graduated since last falJ, a number still dawn the blue and white. Jon Peterson, whose fourth quarter field goal nailed the .coffin shut last fall, will be back along with a veteran of- fensive line that gave Union's defense all sorts of problems one year ago. No matter how you look at it, there seems no way that Bag- noli's Bombers will let a repeat of that grey Vermont day ever reach syndication. Saturday marks the final regular season home appearance for twenty Dutchmen. The class most responsible for turning Union's football fortunes around have run up an amazing 29-7-1 record since their arrival on campus in the fall of 1981. The nation's second ranked Division III club has won its last 13 games on the phony grass and knows they have to continue to improve over these last two gam~s·d't the season to bid for home filed in post season play. To the layman this Saturday's. matchup must look like something dose to David and Goliath. Bagnoli's troops know they cannot look past the Panthers and ahead to the season finale with Hamilton. On the same count a group of Panthers from Vermont may have proven that just about anything can happen on a given Saturday in small college football. Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call J-312-742- J 142 Ext. 4269 THE COMMinEE ON PUBLIC POLICY STUDIES THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO Master's I Ph.D. Program in Public Policy Analysis and Management . zoo Crew Sigma Chi Beavers 3rd Herd 3 3 2 0 1 1 1 2 2 3 3rd ·Floor West 1-3 Dry Heaves 0-4 -Ted Cannon won field goal kicking contest with 45 Yarder. Mr. Kevin Kiper will be on campus to discuss the program Davidson 1st 2 Phi sigma Kappa 2 Rebels l Gap Makers l WHITE LEAGUE Z. C. II 3 ZBT '3 Theta Delta Chi 2 3rd Floor Fox 1 The- Whalers 2 The :Pros 1 OG - Sigma Chi 1 0 1 1 1 3 3 4 *Note • \OOL\ stands for Out of League 8 HAN PUG P001\'IA.L PLAYOPPS 11/4 IBoOO P.M. 11/8 t7•00 !\·\· 2 1). u. 'l'lm'llOGS 11/4 t7o00 P.M. 3. 00111 and career opportunities Thurs., Nov. 8 • l 0 a.m. & 2: 30 p. m . Career Development Center Call370-6176 for more details Interested students with any maior are welcome to attend these meetings. Study policy issues including: Urban Fiscal Stress, Health Care, Housing, 1 nternational Trade, . Economic Development, Taxation, Regulat1on, Federalism, Welfare, Energy Arms Control, Immigration, etc. · '

1- 0:: >- .c 0 - 0 .c: c. Page20 CON COR /)JJ:'NSJ.<;; .'Vm·emh('l' I. 198../ Dutchmen Continue to Roll Union 35. GARNET SCOREBOARD Oct. 22-28 FOOTBALL (_7-0) MEN'S SOCCER {10-1-1 l Williams 7 By TED CANNON Sports Staff _Senior quarterback Dan Stewart passed for 193 yards and a touchdown Saturday to lead the Dutchmen over Williams 35-7. Stewart has now thrown a touchdown pass in 29 consecutive games, and has passed the 5,000 yard mark for career passing yards. Senior split end Winston Britton got Union on the .board first by blowing by his defender and making his 38-yard touch- down catch look easy. The to Jchdown pass was the 5oth of Stewart's career. Senior tailback John Johnson had a fine afternoon, scoring a touchdown and picking up 62 yards on 17 carries. Senior fullback Steve Olsen had a brilliant day, rushing for two touchdowns and 53 yards on only 10 carries. Freshman tailback Cecil Bright rounded out Union's scoring with a two- yard touchdown run. Junior placekicker Greg Sticka hit on all five P.A.T.'s giving him an impressive 25 out of 26 P.A.T.'s on the year. · Defensively, Union played the same as in previous weeks, simply awesome. Again, senior safety Lenny Huttner anchored the secondary by intercepting his fifth and sixth passes of the year. While senior defensive ends Brian Cox and Mark Tavitian applied pressure on the quar- terback,· in passing situations, from the outside, junior noseguard Tony Valente could not be kept away from the quarterback up the middle. Junior tackles Sherman Parrott and Bubba Koonce played outstanding defense against the run. The key to the defense, however, was the play of back- {( . . •e. :'r\\': .:..':. ' ~· ' ' ' Senior Quarterback Dan Stewart will lead the Dutchmen against Middlebury in their attempt to avenge last year's 24-21 loss. Harriers Fifth By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff Last Saturday at Albany State the men's cross country team scored a total of 159 points at the Albany Invitational which was good enough for a fifth place finish out of 17 teams com- peting. The Dutchmen were led by Billy McRoberts and Chris O'Donnell who finished 2oth and 21st respectively in a time of 26:44 over the 5.05 mile course. As the rest of the team ran a good race, sophomore Mike Reed was the outstanding performer placing third on the team and 27th over all. Reed, who has run well all year, finished just five seconds behind McRoberts and O'Donnell. After taking almost two minutes off last year's time on the same course, this reporter feels Reed is the most improved runner on the Dut- chman squad this year and is a key to their late season suc- cesses. Also placing for Union was sophomore Bob Stenard finishing 4oth and fourth on the team and junior Tim Orcutt finishing 51st and fifth respectively. Winning the meet was an always strong Siena team with 28 points followed by Albany State, Rochester, Cortland, and Union respectively. In the J.V. race Union again placed fifth out of seven teams scoring 117 points. Pacing the Dutchmen was Marc Craw finishing 11th in 28:11. Also placing in the J. V. race was Jim LeBrou finishing 15th and second for the team, Louis Tremante and Mark Sydlik running strong races, finishing second and fourth for the team respectively, and Marc Gagnon finishing fifth. This Saturday the Dutchmen varsity squad travel to Siena for the New York State Meet. •... UNION vs MC·G ILL .... cla.sh In pre season action!!! FRIDAY, NOV. 2hd - 7!30 pm $1,00 Wltll uc 10 Tickets on sale now at the ACHILLES RINK box office · ,o~\co • 0 ., ,. .. a:so~ 4:30pm __ weekdays Skatlnn Dutchm-.n up linebackers Art Polimeno and Bob Loparo. Loparo played tough aU afternoon, making hard hits, and coming up with an interception. Polimeno played gutsy throughout the afternoon. Despite a visibly painful right ankle, which kept him out. of practice most of the week, Polimeno shunned the pain, and instead, inflicted pain 1 0n the Williams ballcarriers wi\Q, several hard' stops. Oi'i'tbe season, the Dutchmen are 7.;() amlare ranked 2nd in the nation. Tlie Dutchmen are ranked 1st in the Lambert Trophy Poll as the supreme team in Div. III college football in the east. This Saturday, the Dutchmen look to avenge a 24-21 loss at Middlebury last year, their only regular season loss, as they play host to the Panthers. Union 8 Union 6 Union 3 Skidmore 2 Colgate 5 WOMEN'S SOCCER (4-1-6) VOLLEYBALL (H-4-14) Vassar Tourney 0-2-2) Albany State Match ( 1-0-2) New England College Match .(3,0-0.) MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY (3-0) Finished 5th out of 17teamsat Albany lnvy. DUTCHMEN SPORTSWEE K Nov. 1- 7 Thursday, Nov. 1 · Volleyball at Oneonta vs. Oneonta & Russell Sage Saturday, Nov. 3 Football vs. Middlebury Men's Soccer at St. Lawrence Men's Cross Country--STATE MEET Women's Cross Country--ECAC MEi::T VoHeybaUat Skidmore, Skidmore Tourn.. Wednesday, Nov. 7 Men's Soccer at North Adams Skidmore o RochesterO Colgate 2 Union 1 Uniono 4p.m. 1:30p.m. 2p.m. 9a.m. 2:30a.m. •• s record stands at 10-1-1 Men's Soccer Dominates ByADAMFALK Sports Staff This week, the Dutchmen continued their winning streak ·by defeating Skidmore, Rochester, and Colgate respectively. With the regular season windfug down, Coach Magee feels that \every game has become a must win for Union.\ His players answered that remark by pounding Skidmor:e 8-0, blanking Rochester 6-0, and squeeking out the third, 3-2. In the last four games, the Dutchmen have exploded, outscoring their opponents 27-3. Asst. Coach John Macnamara believes, \that the recent success of the team can be attributed to their realization of creating their own destiny. If they win, its on to the NCAA's. If not, its wait, till next year.\ Although Skidmore is not a particularly strong squad, the Dutchmen knew that they could not take them lightly. Union's offense, which has recently .Jl_roved its scoring ability, 'stna~b.ed the Thoroughbreds for eight goa\s to continue their scoring ways. Bob Crandall once again started the barrage, by scoring his fifth goal of the sea!=!on. From that point on, it was all Union. Pete Stegeman, Unions field captain would continue to crash the net, scoring th:ree goals, for his second haHrick of the season. Jim Monks, Union's center midfielder also added two goals and two assists, while Doug Wilk and Dave Tewksbury were single goal scorers for the Dutchmen. This game was also a good chance for Coach Magee to build confidence in goalie AI Tragasser. Tragasser has been back up Varsity goalie for two years, and is definitely a key to Union's future. Starting goalie Mike Harris is in his senior year, thus Tragasser will be an important link in Unions defense in the years to come. This was Tragasser's first complete game of the season, and was not only a win, but a shutout as well. When Rochester came to Union on Saturday afternoon, the Dutchmen had to expe<;t a tough and fired up Yellow Jacket team. Fresh in the mind of the hooters was last years loss to Rochester, which almost cost them their season. The _pressure was on the Dutchmen as they knew the Yellow Jackets were expecting to once again play the role of the spoilers. But this would never happen. Freshman striker Dave Tewksbury started things off by hammering his seventh goal of the season. From that point on, the Dutchmen would never look back. They pounded Rochester for five more goals, each of which were unanswered by the Rochester taack. Doug Wilk scored two goals to give him eleven on the season, while Bob Crandall continued to show his scoring ability by netting two the score at 1-1. Then Colgate struck again to make the score 2-1, going into the second half. But the hooters had been in this situation before, and chose this time not to panic. They con- tinuously pounded the· Red- Raider defense,- and patiently waited for their opportunities to come. After a few close calls, Steve Hartman picked up a loose ball from a deflected shot, and tucked home his second goal of the season to tie the game 2-2. With about ten minutes to play, sophomore Senior field captain Pete Stegemann sends a pass across the field. · Stegemann has become the Dutchmen's 3rd all-time scorer. more as well. Fine defensive play by Guy Clavolex, Grant Foreman, Rob Mohlar, and Chris Roberts, also brought the Dutchmen to their second straight game without a goal being scored by the opponent. On Monday, Union travelled to Colgate to take on the Division I Red-Raiders. Although Colgate's record is not tremendously strong ( 4-9-1), they were by no means a pushover. Union realized Colgate's potential, and came out fighting. Dave Tewksbury, who has really turned it on in the last few games, started things off by rifling a shot in the first minute of play~ This gave the booters a 1-o lead, but things would quickly change. Two minutes later, after a falter in Union's defense, the Red- Raiders would convert, to tie midfielder_ Jay Davis ripped a shot from twenty yards out to break the tie, and give the Dutchmen their tenth win of the season. Yesterday, the hooters played their last regular season home game against Vassar College, they travel on Saturday to t~e on the Saints of St. Lawrence. 1984 Union College Soccer Statistics Player G A p Peter Stegemann 10 4 24 Jim Monks 5 10 20 DougWilk 9 2 20 Dave Tewksbury 5 3 13 Bob Crandall 5 0 10 C. Roberts 2 5 9 Jay Davis 2 '2 6 Grant Foreman 1 2 4 Howie Fiedler 1 1 3 Steve Hartman 1 1 3 SUPPORT UN'ION SPORTS - ex - ~ (iJ 'iii \11 Ill -, >- !l 0 0 !: a. R• re F I p, was as 1 opti the R< ~ cauj rn poll: '0 <f) ove1 rn Rep 0 ... u T1 '0 of b > and r:; 0 Ger >- .!} 0 0 ,, r 0. reg t io Re1 is s par reg holt COlli Yorl gav1 Rea awa pop1 per< Ne\ imp plic1 Fer1 SUp) cor< Tid:! scie on' Cuo mar for tion \' witl ren ado like givE

~ate ~ore alf. ~ed- to ~ a the d .. to ed ~e, p 9 6 4 3 3 1!: Q) ,;; Ill Q) ., ). .c 0 0 J: 0. ~ l1l \0 If) ro 0 1- u \0 > r: 0 >- Jj 0 0 ' 0. ( '{ '\ / cx1v, ·N·o. 1 Registrar Dwight Wolf explained the reasons for the new pre- registration procedures. ~ Schenectady, New Yor '/ Preregistration . By DAVE MARIN Staff Registrar Dwight Wolf, in ~n attempt to clarify the new preregistration procedures outlined in last week's issue of Concordiensis, has explained that they are not an effort to establish a new preregistration system . According to Wolf, the old preregistration involved a program that was run on the Burroughs B6805 computer which is now scheduled for dismantling before the preregistration process will be completed. As of preregistration time there will not be a completed comparable program for the existing HP 300-68 computer which is to now handle all administrative computing. Bulk Rate U.S. Postage ~aid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 November 8, 1984 that under the temporary procedure some students who could only take one section of a course that was popular might be closed out, saying \There is no fair way.\ Reagan Wins Election Professor Speaks on Race Director of Computer Ser- vices Wayne Holt explained that in order for the four new VAX academic computers to be functional by the start of the Winter term, dismantling of the Burroughs must begin on November 19. Under the new system, student::: must get a card for each course they plan to take. These cards will be available on Wednesday morning, November 14, iil Alurrini Gym and after that date in the ap- propriate departments. The Registrar does not see competition for cards as being any more intense than under the old system. One fear expressed by Chairman of the Economics Department Dwight Phaup is that some students may take more than three cards and choose later which he-she will preregister for. Professor Brad Lewis also of the Economics Department expressed similar concern. Dwight Wolf acknowledged the problem noting, however, that this apparently occurred with card courses under the old system. Phaup suggested implementing a voucher system whereby each student would be allocated three vouchers and would be allowed one card for each voucher. Wolf indicated that this would be difficult to implement since some students also take labs which will require cards now. By MARCY BURSTINER President Ronald Reagan was quoted- early Tuesday night as saying he was \cautiously optimistic\ about a victory in the 1984 presidential election. Reagan had no need to be cautious, however. When the polls closed, 49 states turned over 500 electoral votes to the Republican Party. To the dismay of supporters of both Governor Mario Cuomo and Vice Presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro of the Queens '' ... coll~ge students are registering ~isproporm tiona te ly In the Republican Party. History is such that normally the party in which you register is going to have a hold on you.\ congressional district, New York state in a rather close race gave its 36 electoral votes to Reagan. Mondale had come away with only 46 .percent of the popu1ar vote tp Reagan's 54 percent. ~ Mondale victory in New York would have had important symbolic im- plications for both Cuomo and Ferraro as a sign of loyal support for future races, ac- cording to Professor Charles Tidmarch of Union's political science department who spoke on WQBK radio Tuesday night. Cuomo in particular is seen by many as· a democratic hopefu1 for the 1988 presidential elec- tion. ''The American people speak with many voices/' Tidmarch remarked. Many voters adopted the attitude-''hey, I like what you have done for me- give me more.\ others voted for Reagan because of the ''negative component\ in the election .. They turned to the incumbent president· only because of a dissatisfaction and dislike towards the democratic candidate. To many voters Mondale appeared too weak, or too liberal. \I think there is -also an element of bandwagon and an. element of fad,\ Tidmarch explained. He compared these voters to the owners of cabbage patch dolls and to the attitude of voters that was prevalent in the 1964 elections. · Many voters, he remarked, may have voted for Reagan not fully understanding the im- plications of the issues and how Reagan stood on those issues. Many college students, it was noted, are very pro-Reagan, reflecting perhaps a con- servative trend among college students. \I think that if you did a poll on American campuses today you wou1d probably find that it is two to one pro-Reagan. A lot of kids who come from democratic families or families who are at least moderately liberal have suddenly discovered Ronald Reagan. Whether this will last remains to be seen.\ \For many of them this is their first ·Presidential vote. They _ haven't had any democratic heroes to turn to ... Here's a hero of sorts ... The new registrants, the first-time voters who have registered for the first time, are registe1·ing disproportionately . in the Republican party. History is such that nonnally the party in which you first register is going to have a hold on yon for a while.\ \I think tonight you have seen the end of the democratic coalition in national .poiitics. This is it. We've been an- noimcing its demise for a number of years ... The resounding defeat of Walter Mondale who is the classic quintesseJ;J.tialliberal democrat, and he has been thoroughly rejected.\ \I think this is the death knell of the democrats ·as we have known them since the 1930s. But what form the new party will take, your guess is as good as niilile.\ Wolf stressed that the new procedure was not an attempt to change the system saying, \This is an emergency stop-gap · method to allow us to get through preregistration\ and \hopefully we will not have to do this in the future.'' Hold said, \It is qur intention to get that software working before spring term preregistration.\ Wolf said his office could not conduct preregistration in the same manner as before without the computer program. \The old system worked on the premise that the most students would get the course . they wanted,\ he said. He admitted Phaup said that except for his concern over the one issue, \the registrar is doing as good a job as he can, given the situation.\ He added, \It's not an ex- periment for experimentation's sake .. .I don't know why that has not come across more clearly.\ Professor Lewis also had no complaints about the registrar's handling of the Continued on page 3 Mountebanks in a dress rehearsal for\ Jacques Brei i'S Alive and Well and Living in Paris,\ which opens tonight in the Nott Memorial Theater and continues through November 17. Albany's Vermont Teddy Bear Company *-Page seven-* Soccer Goes to Playoffs *-Page sixteen-* >- ~ ell c:: E ttl ::£ >- .. .. ttl .J > .c 0 .... 0 .J: 0.

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS: Noremh<'r8. 1984 rJ) 10 Cl .c: u Cll r:: .c: a. rc Cl >- .0 0 0 .c: a. Ronald Krebs, representative tmm Insurance Coverages, Ltd., spoke at the Liability lnsuran'ce Workshop on Wednesday, October 31. IFC Conference Held \' ••• Insurance Described By .fiJDIE STEINHARDT News Editor -On- Wednesday, October 31, there was aLiability Insurance Workshop to inform Inter- Fraternity Council and Pan- Hellenic Council members about insurance needs of fraternities and sororities, and ways of fulfilling those. needs. · The talk was given by RoNald Krebs, of the firm Insurance Coverages Ltd. In opening, Krebs stated that \There are nine chapters here (at Union) that do not carry insurance.\ He could not comprehend this fact, because he believes insurance is atr solutely vital in today's society. He said, \Accidents do happen, intended or unintended,\ and he proceeded to give examples of various accidents that have occurred in fraternities and sororities. Krebs continued, '~It is expensive today to defend yourself in a court of law,\ so insurance is necessary in case such a situation arises. Krebs stated that in the recent past it became in-· creasingly difficult for fraternities to get insurance because of the risk involvecl for the insurance companies: cidents, because they can lilappen no matter what protection is used. . . Krebs continued wi>th his philosophy of preventing ac- cidents before they happen. \The fraternity and sorority house is your hoine away .from home, and it should be a safe place to live in. See if you can't make it a better place to live.\ New Professor Welcomed \Approximately nine years ago the National Interfraternity Council found that because of the drug' situation on college campuses and because many of their chapters were closing, that they were unable to secure liability and property in- surance.\ In a meeting held in Toronto ifl 1974, the National Interfr ate rn i ty Co un c i1 recommended his firm for insurance coverage, according to Krebs. Krebs also discussed what the iNsurance policies' cover, and what is excluded. He said that alcohol-related accidents are covered, as long as the law has not been. broken by the fraternity or sorority. He stated, \If you serve alcohol to anyone under ·age you have broken the law. No insurance contract will cover that.\ The law is a..lso broken when a fraternity-sorority has charged money for the alcohol, and serves a visibly intoxicated person. Krebs specified that alcohol-related acciclents are covered when money is not charged for the alcohol. \If you serve someone free of charge .. . the policy wilJ protect, defend, and pay your claim, but if you make a charge for that {alcohol), then you have a problem by breaking the law.\ By JOANNE MCANDREWS Staff Professor Michael Rudko has joined the Electrical Engineering-Computer Sciience department this year. The courses that he is teaching this term are Engineering Science 41-Electrical Circuits, and Electric':ll Engineering 144- Communication Systa\11S I. Rudko attended Syracuse University from 1961 to 1974 and received Bachelor's, Master's and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering. Before coming to Union, he taught at the Universite de Sherbrooke in Quebec, and more recently, at Northeastern University in Boston. He is still doing some research and consulting with a company in Boston as well as starting a project here at Union. Rudko stated that because of the size of Union's student body it is much easier to relate to students, and to give personal attention. He noted that most students are hardworking, and that the student body is much more homogeneous than those of pr~vious universities at which he has taught. As an example of the effect size can play on a university or college, he commented that at a school such as Northeastern, the campus newspaper did not interview new professors because the school and faculty were too large. The courses that Rudko will be teaching winter term include Electrical Engineering 24·4- Communication Systems II, Engineering Science 31- Electrieal Circuits and Devices. and Electrical Engineering 144- Communication Systems I. During his leisure time, Rudko likes to play tennis, cross country ski, and listen to music. Union is happy to have Professor Rudko join the faculty and wishes him a rewarding stay. Krebs continued emphasizing how essential insurance is for fraternities and · sororities and citing specific examples of cases he has witnessed. One such example was, \Very· recently, four days ago, there was a human life that will be paralyzed from age nineteen on as a result of a fall in a fraternity house.\ Krebs then opened the floor to questions. One question was concerned with reasons for cancellations of policies. The response was, \We have yet to cancel a policy because of a claim ... the major reasons for cancellation are two-fold: one, Security CarS Purchased He explained his use of examples, \I'm not trying to scare you, I'm only trying to give you the information to work with that you need to arrive at an intelligent decision.'' Robert Massa, assistant dean of.students,took Krebs' point on · non-compliance with insuring regulations and number two, non-payment of the premium.\ To sum up the discussion, Krebs listed the policies he proposed: \I'm recommending for primary liability limits, % million dollars injury and property damage and then a one million dollar umbrella above that.'' He also strongly urged the houses to get worker's compensation for cooks, and people employed by the fraternity. \This involves a separate, relatively low cost policy,\ he stated. By JEFF BERNSTEIN Staff Security has two new cars this year. The two new cars were purchased by Security to replace their old ones which were deemed inserviceable after two years of constant use. The first car, a 1983 Dodge Diplomat, was purchased last spring for $8,000 and the second was purchased for $10,000 in July. GRADUATE STUDIES IN BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH Basic Medical Science Department . Active Research Programs Seeking Qualified Applicants Tuition and Stipend Support Available For Further Information Contact: Graduate Committee Department of Physiology Albany Medical College Albany, N.Y. 12208 ( 518-445-5651) The cars were originally purchased under a state· con- tract for use by municipal and state police in Albany. The .College was allowed to purchase the cars which were left over after the government cars were distributed. As a result, Union saved about $5,000. A comparable '84 diplomat sells for $15,000 at retail. The cars have V-8 engines and have heavy duty tires and parts to compensate for the continuous use they will be getting. The cars are, by no means, luxury cars or high speed pursuit vehicles. The ·only ex- tras these cars carry are air . conditioning and AM-FM radios. The funding for the purchase of new cars is allocated· in Security's regular budget. The cars will most likely be replaced after two years and 50,000 miles. The new Student hours are as listed: · the necessity of insurance and expanded on it. He said, \Even if you are sued and win the suit, that is to say: you don't have to pay anything in terms of bodily damage or any other sort of liability, you're still going to have to pay lawyer's fees and those can amount to thousands of dollars . . . these policies protect you in litigation as well as liability.\ Any fraternity or sorority, even the most careful, can find itself a defendap.t in a lawsuit, and it is best to be covered if such an occasion should arise. Krebs stated that the most common accidents are: fire, · flood (usually from burst pipes during winter), overloaded circuits, and alcohol-related acciclents. He said that there are ways of preventing many of these incidents, but some are unavoidable. The best way to protect a house is to follow all the preventive measures, but still have insurance for ac- Right now the one million clollar umbrella policy is ab_out $650, and Krebs believes it will go up to $800 by the end of the year. Worker's compi:msation would run about $300 depending on the amount of coverage., There are brochures available that give more specific information on the different insurance policies- what they cover and what they cost. The main point of the meeting was to make frater- nities and sororoities aware of the need for insurance coverage, and some of the ways they can go about getting it. Forum Office will open today. OHice - MONDAY ' TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 0 II?. N Beth Bernell Chri$ Siler . Steve Benson Shari Midoneck Dave Marin 0 0 .. - 0 ' Cl .. co:! . . Lynn O'Brien Andrew George Tom Megerian Julie Mountain Steve Lipsky 0 0 .. N . .. .. 0 0 .;;. Doug Landon Brian Laux Mary Phillips Sue Brand • Steve Moss 0 0 .. ('I) N< G1 A< be th In II be in WI ed ht ed \1 fu te or te ci: fa er ar ec wl w bt th St fi v< al N y~ rE Sf cc Co sy w: in co E1 gi h~ th th E R 0' \~ bE ni qt m d< fo n<

can what his ac- from safe can't live.\ the and that are has the nyone the a arged and that are not you .. you that a law.\ oorto was for The yet to of a for one, two, he % and a one :~.bove ~ged and the a cost the the they the re of ance it. ('ON( 'ONJ)Jf.'N,\'IS, Nol'emher 8, t98.J Pagel I.E.F. Grant Discussed By·GREGFAY Staff Beginning the week of November 12, the Research & Grants Suhcouncil of the Academic Affairs Council will be deciding how to administer the funds from Union College's Internal Education Foundation ( IEF). These funds, which have been traditionally appropriated in the fall and spring terms, were \established to promote educational innovation and to help enrich the College's educational programs.\ As the IEF guidelines state, ''The primary objectives of the fund are to en.courage in- tellectual curiosity, to provide oppor~unities in which in- tellectual abilities are exer- cized, and to enable students, faculty, and administrators to engage in curriculum .revisions and reforms which are educationally innovative and which initially cannot be funded within the general college budget.\ With these objectives in mind the Subcouncil, composed -of the Student Forum President and five Union professors from various departments, will read all proposals submitted by November 12. In the past two years, the number of proposals received totaled seventy and seventy-six, respectively. Consideration of Proposals. The Subcouncil will seriously consider all pr~posals that contorm to one of three categories: Category A includes any major institutional curricula proposals: Category B is reserved for proposals responding to specific calls initiated by the SubcouncH, which at present includes only student initiated research projects. Finally, category C covers any educationally in- novative proposal by any member of the College com- munity. In past years, the IEF has helped to start such programs as .the Freshman Preceptorial, the \Computerized Humaflities at Union College\ program · (CHUC), and the Writing Center, all from category A. Also many faculty members ·and students have been helped in their more personal academic endeavors. When asked how the IEF has helped individual faculty members, the Associate Dean of Faculty and Administrator of the Sub- committee, Dr. Ilene Kaplan,. commented that the grants usually go towards \innovative projects within their courses ... and most often it's for new courses that faculty have put together.\ Referring to grants for students, Dr. Kaplan stated \Usually they have to do with some type of independent research . . . very often Senior Thesis projects need funds for their completion.\ Many students have been able, Wolf Explains Continue~ from pilge 1 . system .stating, \From what I was told, it was more or less inevitable\ because of the computer changeover. Some departments, Economics included, will not give out cards, but will instead have students .sign up on lists as they did for list courses under the old system. Junior Electrical Engineering major and Resident Advisor Chris O'Donnell rhetorically asked, \What's Alwnni Gym going to be like on Wednesday mor- ning?\ answering his own question, \It's going . to be a mess.\ On the oth~r hand, he does like the idea of registering for a particular section and lab, noting that this will be especially good. for students who do take labs. A Resident Advisor at Webster House, Senior Mike Kline, said, \I don't think it's that bad\ but later commented that handing out cards at nine on Wednesday morning would hurt students who have labs that morning. Wolf made two conclusionsl 1) If students take too many cards \it would be smart for you to come up to registration and try the drop-add procedure at the beginning of Winter Term,\ and 2) It would be wise to pick fourth and fifth choices for courses before corning up to preregistration on Wednesday morning. As for the crowds, he says, \On Wednesday, November 14, I expect almo~ two thousand students lined up outside Alumni Gym.\ Preregistration will be on Wednesday, Nov. 14 in Alumni Gym. At that time, cards for Economics 10, 11,53 (Economy of China), 138 (Quantitative Methods), 141 (International) and Senior Thesis will oe handed out. There Will be a list for Economics 170 ( 1 nternship). On a master sign-up list, we will ask you to rank your preferences among the following courses: Economics 20 (Statistics)·, 31 .(Micro), 42 (Macro), 34 (Financial Analysis), 145 (Managerial) and 39 (Public Finance). With your cooperation, we can help insure that each of you is able to take some economics course that you want to take, even if not in all cases your first choice. Cards will be allocated on the basis of seniority and will be distributed on Friday, November 16, in the Economics office. We will also ask you to indicate which of the six courses on the master list you have already taken (this will help our future planning). IMPORTANT NOTES: 1. -Beginning next year, the Department will be strictly enforcing the rule that the three \core\ courses, Economics 20, 31 and 42 are prerequisites .for the Senior Thesis. This means that any senior who has not completed these three courses will not be permitt~d to register for Economics 09 (Senior Thesis). 2. Be sure to arrive at the Gym knowing your first, second, third, etc. choices of Economics courses, and which Economics courses you have already taken. 4. IF YOU WISH TO TAKE AN ECONOMICS COURSE WINTER TERM, IT IS NECESSARY THAt YOU PLACE YOUR NAME ON THE APPROPRIATE LIST(S} ON WEDNESDAY, NOV. 14. If you have any questions about this pre-registration procedure, contact your academic advisor, or any member of the Economics Department. through the IEF, to buy equipment needed for ex- periments, or to travel, for example, to the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. If) tO 01 To insure that students write good proposals, the IEF guidelines call for every student who submits a proposal to be sponsored by a professor. If a part of a proposal is inap· propriate for funding, then the Subcommittee will often par- tially fund that proposaL Said Dr. Kaplan, ''We try to fund the vast majority of the proposals.\ .s::: u CIJ c .s::: a. ro 0 >- .0 0 .... ANew Press Box for ''U~., By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor-in-Chief Union has added yet another facility to the College Grounds -a new press box for the astroturf field. Built by the Albany Ladder Company, the same firm that produced the scaffolding for St. J ahn 's Church on Union Street and a supplier to the 1980 Winter Olympics' facilities in Lake l?lacid, this new structure has replaced the old weather-beaten green press box that formerly stood on the center back row of the turf's benches. Previously, football spotters used to stand on Phi Delta Theta's roof to relay in- formation to coaches on the bench during a game, but this was a less than effective measure. Also, films of each team's work during a game were photographed from this roof, .but now both spotters and cameramen can work from the new press box. As for the new box itself, \it did not require a great deal of construction,\ said Vice President for Administration Thomas D'Andrea. Plans were finished around Oct. 1, but it could 'not be constructed l:llltil the week of Oct. 15. If) c .0 ..c 0 ~ CIJ > CIJ - U') >- ..c E. 0 .c: a. Vice Pres1dent for Finance John Hauser The Union canvas that covers the box can be removed at the end of each football season to preserve this tarp for future years. The entire project was un- dertaken rapidly and economically. It released sixty or so seats at the top of the risers. President John Morris covered the project's cost of $15,600 by administering the sum from the College's discretionary funds, money to be used by the president when he deems necessary. Originally, Director of Athletics Richard Sakala was going to foot most of the bill out of funds he had set aside for an astroturf cleaning machine. However, with Morris' offer, the College can now obtain both necessary features. The structure itself is fifty feet by six feet deep. It consists of two levels, the first being fourteen feet above grade and . 7 1 ·2 feet existing between the first and second levels. According to Vice President for Finance John Hauser, the College's \assistant coaches are pleased with it (the new press box).\ They are \using it on a daily basis and it is ser- vicing their needs.'' Forum Passes By-Laws Last Monday, November 5, the Student Forum approved one-third ofthe proposed by-laws. The following rules of the Forum were passed: I. Order of Business: 1. Chair calls meeting to order 4. Old Business 2. Secretary takes attendance and reads minutes a. motion to amend (second) 5. Committee Reports 6. New Business b. motion to accept (second) 3. Officer's reports 7. Motion to adjourn (second) II. Rules of StUdent Forum: 1. Discussion on any one issue will be limited to 5 minutes. The Chair will call discussion closed after five minutes. 2. After discussion is closed one of twomotions may be made by a member: a. \I move that we extend discussion ... (specify tbne)\ b. \I move that ... (motion 011subject under discussion)\ 3. The Chair may call discussion closed at any time. A simple majority vote of the members can override this decision. 4. After a motion is seconded and reread, discussion is open for another 5 minutes. a. If there is no second, the motion is dead. b. An individual may be ruled out of order if his/her rJ)marks are not limited to the question. c. To amend a motion say \I move to amend the motion by (substituting, inserting, etc.) ... \Amendments need to be seconded, are amendable and debatable and are voted upon before the main motion. An amdnement can be considered \friendly\ and therefore included in the original motion without a vote if the motion's sponsor agrees to the amendment. d. A motion to \table\ would remove a motion from consideration until the members decide to reconsider the motion. A motion to table must be seconded and passed by a simple majority of the members. e. A motion, amendment, or motion to table may be rescinded by its sponsor. 5. At the end of this discussion, debate can be extended, or a vote can be taken. The Chair has discretion as to the type of vote to be used. a. Unanimous consent-motion carries if all are in favor. b. Voice Vote-\a.ye\-\nay\, a simple majority carries the motion. c. Role call-each member will be called upon individually and may either vote in the affirmative, negative, or abstain from voting. d. Anyone can request a formal count. The Chair votes only in case of a tie. The secretary will count and announce the vdte outcome. 6. A simple majority (50% + 1) implies a majority of those members of the Student Forum present at the meeting voting in the affirmative or the negative on the motion, amendment, or motion to table. The members of the Student Forum may \vote\ in order to arrive at a sentiment of the Student Forwn on a particular issue. Votes taken in order to determine sentiment are in no way binding. 7. The Student Forum may hold closed sessions at their discretion, but they may not vote on any binding proposals during these sessions. 8. In the event a member of the Student Forum is unable to attend a meeting, he/she may send a proxy of his/her own choosing. A proxy may only vote on an issue specified by the absent forum member. 9. An elected forum representative must attend 2!3 of the forum meetings each term. If attendance requirements are not met, the issue will be brought before the forum by the President or acting Chair. 10. Representative's rights: , a. Move to recess~specify time. b. Move to close or extend discussion-specify time. c. Move to reconsider a motion if new information not originally considered becomes available. d. Move to consider a topic in the future-specify time. · e. Call for a point of clarification--keep it limited to the factual. If you wish to be so recognized, call out AF- TER the speaker is through; you get preference'for speaking next. f. Point of order-if the rules are not being followed, call out \point of order\ noting the By-laws. These are just one part of the complete by-laws, two-thirds of the proposed by-laws remain to be passed. Changes are currently being made and the Forwn hopes to approve the remaining by-laws at the next meeting on Monday, November 12. If approved, the Student Forum will be governing under the first by-laws in four years. 0

Pa~e4 C'ONCORDIENSI.~: Nm·emher8, 1984 () SEP. ,!o~kh'n Roll with U · · · · -' on1g tat the Rathskeller AJso tonight T from 7:00-8:00 p.m. C with Heron Hill Vineyards t-tULLUW It's all at the Rat · .·. FOUR SEASONS CHINESE RESTAURANT• ih ~ ~ .r'' . Phone: 393-5440/393-5441 .. ~~~.f .re::; 17 • Specialize in Cantonese, ...: Nott IT. errace :S, i Szechuan & Hunan VI · ;: ~ VI. Hours: Sun-Thu. - 11: 30-10~ 00 ~· · .:! Fri.-Sat. 11: 30-ll: 00 fJ, Toke Out of or Eat in we~re in Walking Distance We prepare our foods with ... Just a Little Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot of experience Fast for a World Harvest Thursday, November 15 Sign up for the Oxfam Fast on Monday, November 12th and Tuesday, November 13th, where you eat on campus. Skip a meal or fast for the day on Thursday, November 15, and donate your food money to demonstrate your concern for the hungry in Ethiopia and throughout the world. Together we can make a difference. W.INE TASTING SEMINAR at the Dutch Hollow Pub on Thursday, Nov. 8 at 4:30p.m. · Learn and taste the different . groups of wine .from our New York Winer}' Expert, Mifis Bishop. Plus Cheese & Crackers. Friday Night Dinners Every Friday • tn The Kosher Kitchen Services: 5:30 Dinner: 6:00 Only $3 for great food and a good timeH JSU Wacky, Witty, Wonderful RUBBER STAMPS The Open Door BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! PREPARE FOR: GREPSYCH • TESlN TAPE' LIBRARY • REINFORCEMENT TEST • HOMESTUOY PACKET Caii.Da~s. Evenings & Weekends ·C~-H ! KIIPIAN . fDUGATIONAL ·CENTER LTD TEST PREPARA~ION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 - ... - - 1 I Bo re< t(!) 1 ala pal GE of CUI off wil GE Le Bo an1 1 OW sol sui pic ex• exi Jol Fil Un thE thE eit int re~ ( hOJ an' dir no1 G.E the HOI per dis lllCJ tur Co ;tbl tht.:

~rn he ,t. ~ ~\ ... , ,,, Q. ,Q: 0 g· II 'q' Q=·c;,y JB , ~ 0\ .r::: u Q) c .r::: Q ro ,.., '-' -.. .0 CONCORD/f.:NSIS. No,.em/Jer 8, l98.J Union the Realtor. • • By PETER MOHR Staff Last month, the Union College Board of Trustees approved and recommended a purchase offer te the owners of a house located along Lenex Road. The heuse, part of the area known as the GE plot, is held by the relatives of the deceased owner and is currently unoccupied. If the offer is accepted, the College will own eight houses within the GE tract, which is bounded by Lenox Road, Glenwood Boulevard, Nott Street, Union, and Rugby Avenues. houses outweighed the benefits. Not wanting to pay the moun- ting ,repair and maintenance bills, the College had a few of the heuses demolished. possible functions for the home. It could be used as a guE:st house for visiting VIP's or faculty or as an alumni or faculty .. club. The College has not attempted to gain special permission to use the house for any of these purposes. Not until Union makes a firm decision as to the fate of the house would such a move be considered., notes Hauser. An additional con- sideration is the cost 'Of main- taining and operating the structure; it would probably require a small staff, especially if it is used for guests. At the present time, the ad- ministration is content with the existing situation regarding the GE plot and is not interested in any large scale changes within the district. In the words of Hauser, \We should be good neighbors.\ FEATURES The Parker Rice estate, p(lrt of the General Electric plot, ·iS located on the corner of Union Avenue and Douglas Road. This land was originally owned by the College but was sold to GE about 1910. The firm subdivided the land into smaller plots which were sold to GE executives who constructed the existing houses. According to John Hauser, Vice President for Finance and Administration, Union began acquiring some of the individual properties during the early 1960's. The College either purchased these tracts or inherited them from former residents. At that time, the residents of the area became concerned about the remaining houses owned by the College. Fearful that their neighborhood might change dramatically, these people persuaded the city to have the GE plot zoned as an historical district. This 1978 ruling forbids the houses to be used for any purpose other than as single family residences. The only businesses allowed within the tract are home offices, such as those used by doctors. Union holds a special permit h> operate one ·Of the houses as Dudley Observatory, located at 169 Union Street. The ordinance also states that any modification to the exterior of a home must be presented by the owner to a special commission established in 1978. About seven years ago, the College had requested per- mission from the city to demolish Harmon House, located within the district. The proposal was rejected and for five years, Union allowed the house to stand vacant with only minimum maintenance. In 1983, however, the Board of Trustees decided to restore the building; since July of this year, the home has been rented to a family. Hauser feels that this restoration improved thr College's relationship with area residents. Advice: Satisfy Yourself Originally, Union used the homes as faculty residences and fraternity houses. Accor- ding to Hauser, the homes were not well maintained during this G.E. Realty Plot sign located in- the front of the Par ker-R ice House. period. ·As the houses fell into disrepair, and as the costs of lllaintaining the large struc- tures continued to rise, the College became concerned ;tbout the value uf the homes to the school. About ten to fifteen years ago, the administration decided that the costs of these Currently, the College owns ail of the properties bounded by Lenox Road, Wendell Avenue, Douglas Road, and Union Street, except for two. A hand- ful of other tracts, some without houses, along Lenox between Nott Street and Douglas are also held by Union. Of the seven structures owned by the College, four are ·rented to families, one is operated as the Dudley .Observatory, one is used for storage, and another is occupied by Dean of Students Joseph Mammola. The home used for storage is the large Parker-Rice house, located on the corner of Union Ave. and Douglas St. According to Hauser, there are several The Reggae Sounds of 'BLACK SHEEP' at Alumni Gym Tonight,_ Nov. 8 8:00p.m. Bv LEON & MONTE Staff near L&M, How can you stop someone from following you around constantly? I have a friend who can't seem to survive without me present. She c~mstantly bombards me with phone calls and T am starting to get an~ novrrl. I don't want to be ob- noxious, hut how can I tell her to get lost? Signed, Leave me alone Dear Alone, F'irstly. we think you should take her attention toward you as :1 compliment. The girl ob- viously likes you, and this is a positive ideal. If you really don't want to spend too much time with your \friend you can sit her doWn and try to explain the situation to her with as much tact as possible. Remember to take her feelings into account. If you don't want to talk to her about the problem, you can just ignore her constant attention. Time will probably settle the problem. Good luck. L&M Union College students with ID--$5.00. 'Tickets available at the Student Box Office. Beer will be provided throughout the evening. · -sponsored by the Union College Concert and Social Committees and Miller Beer ..-.--wELCOME J.o 111Lller<l iine L . '.\ ~i, !,p >~I,\ 'O I \', Y 0 t.l,p~l-f ,..\i Dear L&M, I am a freshman who was a bit overweight before graduating from High School. Since I've been 'here at Union I have lost a lot of weight (which I'm happy about) but my parents think I am becoming underweight. They also feel I am not getting the pr:oper nutritional requirements. How can I pro ;e to them that I'm all right: Signed, Healthy Dear Healthy, A large weight drop in a short period of time may be detrimental to a persons health; .su, if you fit into this category, you have started off on the wrung foot. Listen to your parents advice; their intentions are not to make you \pleasantly plump\ but rather to keep you healthy. Often you can develop eating disorders, such as, anorexia or bulemia. I'm sure your parents have seen some kind of change in eating habits that you have undergone, and they don't want it to develop into one of these eating disor- clers. Make sure that you arc eating properly, and then tell them that they have no need to be worried--- prove yourself by gi\·ing discripti\'e detail of what you have eaten. Remember, it's not necessary to go back for seconds on sweets. Keep strong, L&M Readers: Our views are not ne<:essarily the views of the staff or the Conscordiensis. If you have a problem, we can help. Send your problems to boxes 683 or 972. You can remain annonymous when sending your letters to us. Charmain Mitchell of Union's Bookstore got into the holiday spirit on HalloWeen, Oct. 31, 1984. \' ro (j) ..c u Q) c ..c c. ro 0 > ..0 0 - 0 ..c c. \' <0 Cl ..c u Ci) c .r::: c. Ill Q > .0 0 .... 0 ..c c.

Page6 Notice To All Clubs Fewer than half of the Student Activities Clubs have handed in their Seventh Week Reports. Failure to do so IMMEDIATELY may result in clubs being placed on \conditional status/' the first step toward loss of funding · and/or Student Forum recognHion. You must return the form to Mrs. Marra's office immediately. If you have questions, contact your Committee on Committees (CoC) representative. · Why would anyone choose to go to a college that is right near their home? This and many other questions were addressed by the Admissions Office last Thursday, November 1. The program, which was held especially for area high school students, was entitled \Union: The College Next Door.\ The evening's events con· sisted of a panel discussion and a question and answer period. The panelists were Dean of Engineering Edward Craig, Professor of English H. 'Alan Nelson, Professor of Classics Christina Sorum and three Union students from the Schenectady-Albany area. The panel students were: Meredith Auten '87, Ken Budka '87 and Andy George '86. Each student explained their own reasons for at· tending a college that is close- to home. They also explained their hesitancy, but made the point that \The College is as far away as you want to make it.\ The professors emphasized the unique quality of life at Union as well as the academic opportunities. The program appeared to be well-received and may have convinced at least a few prospective students not to t,urn their backs on Union. ., :. CONCOR/J/EN.\'1.\: Nm·emher 8, 1984 Ita \Jl/4 ''SKIN SYSTEMS\ is a 'Total Salon,' our hair designers have been trained by Sassoon, of london, and Jingles, N.Y.C. We cater to all your needs: Hair Design Perms Colour Ned I Lengthening Waxing Facials .Bodywear Pedicures frnB9:1 ffi1 . - . I 25% discount Tues. & Wed. only with Raymond or Tlla Pl~ase Call: 374-0736 Gooding Skin Systems 322 State Street Schenectady For a FREE program guide leave name and address at 356\5555 day or night or write to WMHT, Box 17, Schenectady,_ N.Y. 12301 • - - 1~ pa cl< tr: Re \r go tw ha se· co co· in1 All ' vo di' su Me lit\ rru tin vol

.................. · ............ a.· .... ·.·.· .. -·.·.···· .. :: ..•. :, ...•. • :::::: · .. : ·• :: :< : ... ·.: :w~>>' ·.·· ... ,. :.- .. : .. '. -~:~--~- .. . . BCIGHOi..--. .. '··· · .. Notice To All Clubs Fewer than half of the Student Activities Clubs have handed in their Seventh Week Reports. Failure to do so IMMEDIATELY may result in clubs being placed on \conditional status,\ the first step toward l.oss of funding and/or Student Forum recognition. You must return the form to Mrs. Marra's office immediately. If you have questions, contact your Committee on Committees · (CoC) representative .. · Why would anyone choose to go to a college that is right near their home? This and many other questions were addressed by the Admissions Office last Thursday, November 1. The program, which was held especially for area high school students, was entitled ''Union: The College Next Door.\ The evening's events con· sisted of a panel discussion and a question and answer period. The panelists were Dean of Engineering Edward Craig, Professor of English H . . 'Alan Nelson, Professor of Classics Christina Sorum and three Union students from the Schenectady-Albany area. The panel students were: Meredith Auten 'B7, Ken Budka '87 and Andy George '86. Each student explained · their own reasons for at· tending a college that is close. to home. They also explained their hesitancy, but made the point that \The College is as far away as you want to make it., .. CONCORD/ENS/,\: Nm·emh(•r 8, 1984 uueed y, \SKI'N SYSTEMS'' is a 'Total Salon~' OQr hair designers have been ·1rained by Sassoon, of London, and Jingles, N.Y.C. We cater to all your needs: Hclir Design Perm$ Colour Nail Lengthening Waxing Facials . BodyV~ea.r Pedicures frnB9:1~. 25% d:iscount · Tues. & Wed. only with Rayrnond or Tija . Pl~ase Call: 374-0736 Gooding Skin Systems 322 State Street Schen.ectady The professors emphasized the unique quality .of life at Union as well as the academic opportunities. The program appeared to be well-received and may have convin<;:ed at least a few . prospective students not to turn their backs on Union. For a FREE program guide leave name and address at 356·5555dayor night or write to WM'HT, Box 17, Schenectady,_ N.Y12301 • - • - 1 p; cl tr R ~·] gl tu h; SE C( C< in A VI di Sl l\1] li1 rc:: ti V<

Page 7 'FEATURES A Bear with Pizzaz Friends of the Vermont Tedc;Jy Bear Company are waiting to be hugged by children of America. 1984 Presidential Campaign: By BETSY TREITLER Features Editor A teddy bear is not just a teddy bear. It is easy to shop through ·almost any department and tgy store and find stuffed animals of a variety of sizes and shapes. But have you ever truly hugged a teddy bear made with \ tender loving care? The Vermont Teddy Bear Co. was but a glimmer in the imagination of its founder John. Sortino, brother-in-law of Union College senior Peter Torncello, about five years ago. Sortino, a successful businessman, had been playing with his infant son and in trying to evoke a few giggles, put a Groucho Marx nose and eyeglasses on a toy bear. The child's unending laughter convinced Sortino to explore the world of the cor- poration and to research ways to venture into a new business and set it on a course toward success. Sortino began by sketching Clash of Ideologies By EMILY LOOSE Staff The 1984 Presidential cam- paign has been reported as a classical confrontation of traditional Democratic and Republican ideologies reviving \rich get richer\ and smaller government themes. Unfor- tunately this clash of ideologies has simplified or shaded several issues perhaps too complex for mass media coverage. The United States involvement in Central America is one such issue. Though the issue of in- volvement .has been simply divided between Reagan's support of intervention nd Mondale's call for withdrawal, little explanation of the ramifications of either con- tinued or increased in- volvement or of withdrawal·has been attempted. In anticipation of the ex- pected Reagan victory and with the purpose of informing students of the Reagan ad- ministration's policies and their perceived ramifications upon world political stability and the more immediate effects upon Central American life, several authorities on the U.S. in- volvement in Central America will gather next Thursday, November 15, at 7:30 p.m. in Humanities 117 for a \teach-in\ organized by Sociology Professor Martha Huggins for United States Out of Central America (USOCA). James McClellan, Professor of Educational Foundations at SUNY Albany, will speak .about the implications of increased involvement for the draft age population. Suzanne Jonas of the Institute for the Study of Come to an Informational Meeting *TODAY*. November 8, 1984 • 12:30 Carnegie Hall, 3rd F·l., Room 11 A\ Militarism and Labor and Economic Crisis will speak about the character of U.S. intervention and militarism in Central America. The pastor of the Saratoga Presbyterian Church will speak about the church sanctuary movement which gives asylum to Central American refugees. More than a series of speeches, this \teach-in following the format used ex- tensively in the 60's, should be a lively question and answer session, allowing £or departures into related issues such as the threat of nuclear war and the ethics of C.I.A. subservice practices. Humanitarian concerns over the Central American situation will be emphasized when Shawne McCord closes the evening discussions with the reading of two original poems concerning the U.S. intervention in ElS Salvador. On-campus organizations ' supporting the \teach-in\ in- clude the Campus Ministry, the Arts Club, BLAS, Oxfam, and UCAM hopes Union students in general will join in this concern over an increasingly aggravated, complex, and significant situation. Many believe that a secon Reagan administration will increase U.S. military in- tervention in Central America, concentrating efforts in Nicaragua through the con- tinued C.I.A. support of the army of the former Somoza government. Echoes of Vietnam and reports of the U.S. training of counterrevolutionaries in Honduras raise questions as to the possibility of a direct U.S. invasion and the rationalization for U.S. involvement as an anti- communist policy of \con- tainment.\ Next Thursday's \teach-in!' will broach such questions by the clarification of this com- plicated situation and its significance for the student age population, for world political stability, and for Central Americans. pictures of teddy bears each with a .different gimmick. The first was of that charming bear reminiscent of Groucho Marx expression, formally named ''Bearcho.\ Sortino had the design patented and then took out a loan to initiate his full- time teddy bear business. The money w·as used to purchase materials-fur and stuffing-and to take out advertisements in newspapers in search of 'community seamstresses' who were usually local women who could be paid and fully responsible for specific jobs in the composition · of the hand- sewn teddy bears. Finished bears were taken to downtown Burlington and set into roadside peddlers' carts upon obtaining a license. Sor- tino observed customers' reactions and questioned people about their preference for a rather preppy \Buffy Bear\ or the mysterious \Bearazar\ or for a completely different model of a teddy bear. Community folk and visitors alike were lured to the soft, cuddly bears. Selling was prosperous. Conse.quently, David Tornceno, Sortino's brother-in-law, entered the business two years ago, .from the manufacturing end. He took out a $100,000 loan, encouraged by Albany County's efforts to stimulate investments in new businesses. Stuffing machines and seamstresses and someone to handle the shipping were brought together into a small, downtown Albany building-- gone teddy bear factory; a place where a few work diligently to bring pleasure to millions. Their goal: to create the most huggable bears in the world and the finest in the United States. The key to the success of their industry, said David Torncello, is to create bears with some sort of gim- mick, the gimmick is usually a costume which adds a rather distinctive personality to the typically loveable bear. The Vermont Teddy Bear Co. makes bears of all sizes and colors and personalities. There are ·regular, soft, huggable bears-some like \Bear Buns\ with unusually soft 'buns' and others dark and reminiscent of a grizzly bear and still others with outfits for different seasons. There are alsa jointed bears--like \Ethan\ and \Molly.'' Ethan, named after Ethan Allen of the Green Mountain Boys wears Shorts and suspenders. \Molly\ also named after a hero of the Battle of Bennington, Molly Stark, wears a femiaine, frilly jumper. Both their outfits are hand-sewn as are all the bears' costumes. Young chilJren hear about the teddy bear factory and often visit either by pleading with their parents or through class trips. The factory gives the children a \share\ in a bear . and ask all the children to decide together to send the bear to some needy person or organization. It is an expression of love and caring from the children and exemplifies the love and. friendship which is stuffed into each an~ every bear. Sortino and Torncello along with friends and relatives often sit around throwing out dif- . ferent ideas. \Invariably one good idea comes out among all sorts of amusing and even ridiculous ones,\ says Peter Torncello, but a lot of the fun really is in the imagining of a gimmick for a teddy bear which will capture the hearts of any audience. A variety of the teddy bears were sold by Peter Torncello during homecoming and will be sold again sometime this term before Thanksgiving. So think of someone who you would like to charm especially over the holidays. Meanwhile, Sortino will continue to 'yell' at his workers so they do not overstuff the bears. Bears will be shipped across the nation and perhaps even to Australia to make a lot of people happy. Of course, there will be bears attracting thousands over to the little roadsie, peddler's cart in Burlington. And anyone who looks into the eyes of any one of the bears will surely realize that he or she is hugging a bear with a special sort of pizzaz. Drop a note of interest in any one of the teddy bears into Peter Torncello's box--No. 1051--at least ten days • before Thanksgiving recess. In Case of Nuclear War: Report to the Skeller Richard E. Hurley, assistant professor of administration and management at Union College, was admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of the United States during swearing i·n ceremonies conducted in Washington, Oct. 15, Chief Justice Warren E. Burger presiding. Hurley was sponsored by the New York State Bar Association. He also presented a paper titled \Depreciation and Investment Tax Credits Within the Tax Reform Act of 1984\ to the Southeast Regional American Business Law Association in Nash ville, Tenn. Oct. 26. The paper focused on the recent legislative tax changes which placed 'limits on investment tax . credits and accelerated depreciation deductions available with computers, automobiles and other business assets. A graduate of Guilderland High School, Hurley received degrees from Syracuse University, Albany Law School, and the State University at Albany. He is an attorney and certified public accountant and has taught at Union since 1977.

l'ON('ORDIENSIS, Nm·emhi!r a; 1984 Page 7 'FEATURES A Bear with Pizzaz Frier:~ds ofth.e Vermont Ted(:ly Bear Company are waitir:~g to behuggec;l by children of America. · 1984 Presidential Campaign: By BETSYTREITLER Features Editor A teddy bear is not just a . teddy bear. It is easy to shop through almost any department and toy store and find stuffed animals of a vatiety of sizes and shapes. But have youevertrl.ll.y hugged a teddy bear made with\' tender loving care? The Vermont Teddy Bear Co. was but a glimmer in the imagination of its founder John. Sortino, brother•in-law of Union College senior Peter Totncello; about five years ago. Sortino, a successful businessman, had been playing With his infl:mt son and in trying to evoke a few giggles, put a Groucho Marx nose and eyeglasses on a toy bear. The child's unending laughter convinced Sor.tino to explore. the world of the cor· potation and to research ways to venture into a new business and set it on a course toward success. Sortino began by sketching Clash of Ideologies By EMH...YLOOSE Staff The 1984 Presidential ·cam- paign has ·been reported as a classical confrontation of traditional Democratic and Republican ideologies reviving ~'rich get richer\ and smaller government themes. Unfor- tunately this clash of ideologies has simplified or shaded several issues perhaps too complex for mass media coverage. The United States involvement in Central America is one such issue. Though the issue of in- volvement .ha.s been simply divided between Reagan's support of intervention nd Mondale's call for withdrawal, little explanation of the ramifications of either con- tinued or increased in- volvement Of of withdrawal·has been attempted. In anticipation of the ex- pected Reagan victory and with the ·purpose 9f informing students of the Reagan ad- ministration's policies and their perceived ramifications upon world political stability -and the more immediate effects upon Central American life, several authorities on the U.S. in- voh•ement in Central America will gather next Thursday, November 15, at 7:30 p.m. in Humanities 117 for a \teach-in\ organized by. Sociology Professor Martha Huggins for United States Out of ·Central America (USOCA). James McClellan, Professor of Educational Foundations at SUNY Albany, will speak .about the implications of increased involvement for the draft age population. Suzanne Jonas of the Institute for tbe . Study of come to an Informational Meeting *tODAY*. . November 8,.1984• 12:30 Carnegie HaUr 3rd. Fl., Room \A\ Militarism and Labor and Economic Crisis will speak about the character of U.S. intervention and militarism in Central America. The pastor of the Saratoga Presbyterian Church will speak about the church sanctuary move~ent which gives asylum to Central American refugees. More than a series of speeches,. this \teach-in following the format used ex- tensively in the 60's, should be a lively question and answer session, allowing for departures into related issues such as the threat of nuclear war and the ethics of C.I.A. subservice practices. Humanitarian concerns over the Central American situation will be emphasized when Shawne McCord closes the evening discussions. with the reading of two origirial poems concerning the U.S. intervention fu EIS Salvador. On-campus organizations . supporting the \teach-in\ in· elude the Campus Ministry, the Arts Club, BLAS, Oxfarn, and . UCAM hopes Union students in general will join in this concern over an increasingly aggravated, complex, and significant situation. Many believe that a secon Reagan administration .win increase U.S. military in· tervention in Central America, concentrating efforts in Nicaragua through the con- tinued C.I.A. support of the army of the former Somoza government. Echoes of Vietnam and reports of the U.S. training of counterrevolutionaries fn Honduras raise questions as to the possibility of a direct U.S. invasion and the rationalization for U.S .. involvement as an anti- communist policy of \con· tainment.\ Next Thursday's \teach-in\ will broach such questions by the clarification of this com• plicated situation and its significance for the student age population, for world political stability, and for Central Americans. pictures of teddy bears each with a different gimmick. The first was of that charming bear reminiscent of Groucho Marx expression, formally named \Bearcho.\ Sortino had the design patented and then took out a loan to initiate his full- time teddy bear business. The money was used to purchase materials-fur and stuffing-and to take out advertisements in newspapers in search o.f 'community seamstresses' who were usually local women who could be paid (lnd fully responsible for specific jobs in the composition · of the hand- sewn teddy bears. Finished bears were taken to downtown Burlington and set into roadside· peddlers' carts upon obtaining a license. Sor- tino observed customers' reactions and questioned people aqout their preference for a rather p11eppy ''Buffy Bear\ ot the mysterious \Bearazar\ or .for a completely different model of a teddy bear, Community folk and visitors alike were lured to the soft, cuddly bears. Selling was prosperous. Consequently, David 'Torncel1o, Sortino's brother-in-law, entered the business two years ago, .from the manufacturing end. He took out a $100,000' loan; encouraged by Albany County's efforts to stimulate investments in new businesses. Stuffing machines and seamstresses and someone to handle the shipping were brought together into a small, downtown Albany building-- gone teddy bear factory; a ,place where a few work diligently to bring pleasure to millions. Their goal: to create the most huggable bears in the world . f:lnd the finest in the United States. The key to the success of their industry, said David Torncello, is to create bears with some sort of gim- mick, the gimmick is usuai.J.y a costume which adds a rather distinctive personality to the typically loveable bear. The Vermont Teddy Bear Co. makes bears of all sizes and colors and personalities. There are ·regular, soft, huggable bears-some like \Bear Buns,, with unusually soft 'bun~· and others dark and reminiscent .of a grizzly bear and still others with outfits for different seasons, There are also jointed bears--like ''Ethan'' and \Molly.\ Ethan, named after Ethan Allen of the Green Mountain Boys wears shorts and suspenders. \Molly\ also named aftei' a hero of the Battle of Bennington, Molly Stark, wears a feminine, frilly jumper, Both their outfits· are hand-sewn as are all the bears' costumes. Young children hear about the teddy bear factory and often visit either by pleading with their parents or through class trips. The factory gives the childr.en a \share\ in a bear . and ask all the children to decide together to send the bear to some needy person or organization. It is an expression of love and caring from the children and exemplifies the love and friendship which is stuffed into each ami every bear. Sortino and Torncello along with friends and relatives often sit around throwing out dif- • {erent ideas. \Invariably one good idea. comes out among all sorts of amusing and even ridiculous ones,'' says Peter Torncello, but a lot of the fun really is in the imagining of a gimmick for a teddy bear which will capture the hearts of any audience. A variety of the teddy bears were sold by Peter Torncello during homecoming and will be sold again sometime this tenn before Thanksgiving. So think of someone who yoti would like to charm especially over the holidays. Meanwhile, Sortino will continue to 'yell' at his workers so they do not overstuff the bears. Bears will be shipped across the nation and perhaps even to Australia to make a lot of people happy. Of course, there will be bears attracting thousands over to the little roadsie, peddler's cart in Burlington. And anyone who looks into the eyes of any one of the bears will surely realize that he or she is hugging a bear with a special sort of pizzaz. Drop a note of interest in any one ofthe teddy bears into Peter Torncello's box--No. 1051--at least ten days , before Thanksgiving recess. In Case of Nuclear War: Report to the Skeller Richard E. Hurley, assistant professor of administration and management at Union College, was admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of the ·United States during sweari.ng in ceremonies conducted in Washington, Oct. 15, Chief Justice Warren E. Burger presiding. Hurley was sponsored by the New York State Bar Association. He also presented a paper titled noepreciation and Investment Tax Credits Within the Tax Ref.orm Act of 1984\ to the Southeast Regional American Business Law Association in Nash ville, Tenn. Oct. 26. The paper focused on the recent legislative tax changes which placed limits on investment tax . c_redits and accelerated depreciation deductions available with computers, automobiles and other business assets. A graduate of Guilderland High School, Hurley received degrees from Syracuse University, Albany Law Schoo.l, and the State University at Albany; He is an attorney and certified public accountant, ancl has taught at Union since 1977.

PageS CONCORDIENSIS, Nm·ember8, 1984 MfiNHf\ t4N London ool conomics and Political Science A chance to study and live ln London J1:mior-year programs. Postgraduate Diplomas. One-Year Master's Degrees and Research Opportunities in the Social Sciences. - ~~~IH~~~~ The wrde range of subjeCts mcludes: Accountmg and Frnance • Actuanal Scrence • Anthropology • Busrness Stl.idres • Economrcs • Econometncs e Economrc History • European Studres • Geography • Gqvemment • lndustnal Relatrqns • lnternatrom;tl History • International Relatrons • Law • Management Science a Operatronal Research· • Personnel Management • P.hrlosophy • · Populatron Studres • Polrtrcs • Regronal and Urban Plannrng Studres • Sea-·Use Policy • Social Adminrstration • Social Planning in Developing Countnes • Social Work • Sociology • Social Psychology • Statistrcal and Mathematical Sciences • 605 Union Street JOIN US FOR SUNDAY BRUNCH 11 A.M. - 3 P •. M. Systems Anaylsis • OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK LUNCH-DINNER-FINGER FOODS Servi;ng 11:30 am-1 :00 am Application forms from: Admissions Registrar, L.S.E., Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, England·, stating whether undergraduate or postgraduate and quoting Room 10. LSE The Biology Club will meet on Thursday, November 8th at 4:30 in Conference Room A to hold elections~ for freshman represen- tative to the Biology Department. Money will also be collected for our trip to. Howe Caverns on. Saturday, November lOth. It will be $7.00 if we have less than ten people or $3.50 if we have more than ten. For more information please attend the meeting. This Week On WRUC .Sports Tomorrow. Sports line 7:30p.m. Saturday Union Football at Hamilton 12:30 p.m. Saturday Union Hockey vs. Colgate 7 p.m. IV\onday Sports line 7:30p.m. Tuesday Union Hockey vs. Army 7 p.m. Wednesday Sports line 7:30 p .. m. The E . , s· r... . . Adventures of mp1re s uper~ver Empire Airlines' Collegiate Defender of Low Airfares, Champion of the Student WI! NOW 1=INP HIM IN HIS MOUN1\AIN AERIE!., 'At>~I<I/IJG OUT A PROBLEM ON· ~SR&: 1 THI!i ~D'S MCST FOWERFUL. COI+tiPUTER-- - . ISN'T rr TRue &MriRI£ HAS SOME OF 71/e I.OWIE$1\ FAR/E.S AVAll-A&e, ANI? THAT I'SIIrf'HOCISlEI I'S 'THREATENING 10 'THeM NE.Xi MON111? DETROIT Book early and save up to 45o/o when you fly Empire home for Thanksgiving. For ·reservations and information call your Travel Agent or 800-962·5665 Toll-Free in New York State or Plus Free Drinks! BOSTON

... .. I • CONCORDIENSIS, Not•ember8, 1984 Page 9 ·arJiltfllrbtrttsis Fountkri at Union Coll~e 1817 --------~-- -------- Courses Needed In many colleges and universities across the nation, journalism is considered an important part of the academic curriculum. However, at Union there is apparently no such belief. There is not even one una dergraduate course here that teaches journalism skills. At an institution that boasts such a wide variety of English courses each trimester it seems surprising that a journalism .course does not appear on the list. Apparently there is no one ·instructor in that depart- ment, the one seemingly most appropriate for such a course, that can teach such skills. If so, then why does -not the College employ such an instructor? Granted, a tight budget does not allow . such random ap- pointments, however, when the Engli.sh department,. for whatever reasons, has notably omitted such a course, does it not behoove the ·college to make amends? . Is it not time for su<;h a course, or more preferably, a series of journalism skills courses, to be offered at Union? Journalism is considered by many educators to be a skill so it does not belong in a liberal arts college such as Union (regardless of the College's engineering departments). However, that is not really the case .. Journalism is just another mode of writing and is it not appropriate .for the English qepartment to teach writing? If not, what is the College's new writing center doing but helping studerlts to hone their writing·skills? Union apparently takes pride in its student newspaper yet the College makes no ·attempt to help the paper's staff learn journalistic ski-lls in a fonnal setting. It is time that -the College takes this matter into con- sideration. Bigger Budget There is talk these days of raising the student ac- tivities fee. The cost of student activities is currently $126 per semester for the academic year. This amounts to $42 per trimester per student. It sounds as if student activities is quite a costly enterprise. It is. The· Finance Committee should be commended for managing a $250,000 budget. Un- fortunately, there is not much in the pot now, for it has all been eaten up in the _many committee and organizational budget allocations. For this reason, members of the Finance Committee seek to raise the fee and bring in increased revenue for the 1985-86 year. - \ The problem lies not only in insufficient funds for too many clubs; there is a problem with the allocation of the funds we have. An increase in funds results in an increase in budget allocations and an increase in budget requests. The result is an even larger fee, a larger budget, and still a shortage of funds. The Finance Committee must learn how to say \no\ and when such an answer is necessary. The Committee must have the courage and be able to use some discretion in the allocation of our student funds. This is not-to say, however, that the activity fee should not be raised. The student union at RPI charges $175 to our $126. With an increase in fee, the Finance Committee and the Student Forum should increase their awareness of the limitations of our financial resources. John J. O'Connor, Campus Officer, suffered a heart attack and passed away Saturday, November 3, 1984. A member of the. Security & Safety Dept. as a Campus Officer since April 10, 1978, Officer 0 'Connor will be remembered for his friendly disposition and devotion to the students at Union College. Officer O'Connor was a Schenectady Police Officer, retiring in 1978, after 25 years of service. He was 60 years old. · - COMMENTARIES Trillion Dollar Folly By WILLIAM B. MARTIN, JR. Barbara W. Tuchman, noted historian, noted in her latest book \The March of Folly\ (1984) that \the earmark of so many (historical) follies (is) disproportion between effort and possible gain--and the \terrible encumbrance'' of honor-\. It seems that we may he in the position of such a folly '(~!though tl;iis one with an in- versed \too much\ effort}. Driven by political pressures now shaping our \security and by either or both the in- dustrial-military lobbying and the \technologically sweet\ accomplishments in weaponry, we may be spending during the next 4 years some .trillion or more for stars wars effort. What do we gain if indeed as President Reagan ''envisions,'' we build a system capable of \total protection\ (challenged by many experts who have worked in weaponry)? I note that no one has publicized what would happen to all of those nuclear warheads \disabled\ in their trajectories. Were these to ''explode\ (for some unknown reason) in space, perhaps we would exper-ience only the in- convenience of EMP destruction of our electric gridwork and our electronics. Were they to explode on reentry (not predictable or even likely), the fission would release plenty of fallout isotopes which would drift to earth and make weeks of \inconvenience\ for animals and plants. Were they to (more likely in my mind) simply \burn lip\ on reentry into .the atmosphere, the plutonium-239 from a large scale attack would drift back to earth; most animals and hwnans would probably breath in at least a speck of this, and tha\'s all that is needed to be almost sure of developing lung cancer in the old and young alike! Think of the folly of spending trillions of dollars, only to have it bring such painful ending to such huge munbers of people of all nations? What a consumate folly that would bet Of course, some of the experts feel that (even without the above factor), star wars might bring us a worse nuclear disaster than had we never undertaken such a program, Dr. Robert M. Bowen, former head of the U.S. Air Force development of outer space weapons and strategy (see the report in the Schenectady Gazette--1 November). This chap pointed out the purposeful \selling of a bill of goods to the American People\ might get a set of weapons .(not really defensive at all) which would fare better as anti-star war weapons poised in space, which would operate at the speed of light, and we could well lose our \eyes in the sky\ (satellites) which are so crucial to us. It would take the most rapid computers to make the decision about firing nuclear salvos, for reaction times :would have to be in small fractions of a second!- Indeed, our efforts seem to avoid the only reasonable study for the future hope of mankind- -that of changing the way of thinking which Einstein voiced. Consequences of Religious Fanatacism By ANNAMALAIMUTHIAH Religious fanatiscism around the world is not a new phenomenon, however, religious fanatics today are resorting to terrorism to ac- complish their objectives and eliminate their opposition. During the last century this method of gaining power within a country has been used by a number -of religious groups. Examples include, the Moslems in Iran and currently the Sikbs in India. The prime minister of India Mrs. Indira Gandhi has been assinated by two of her Sikh body guards. I believe these two men, must have been involved in a plot to assinate the prime minister, in retaliation for the attack on the Golden Temple of Arnr'itsar, which was ordered by Mrs. Gandhi. While her assassination may in fact be . a direct result of her ordering the attack. it is also the latest manifestation of tensions that have been felt by the Sikh majority for the Hindus, since the Akali-Dal Party lost power in 1980. Sikhism is simply a branch of Hinduism, its followers believe in only one God and they do not recognize the Caste System ... Less than two percent of India is Sikh. In the state of Punjab they are a majority. Fifty two percent of the population of Punjab isSikh. From 1977-80 the Sikh's Akali-Dal was in power. In 1980 it was defeated by Mrs. Gandhi's party the Congress-1 party ... Since then the Sikh's have been trying to gain power. They made several demands upon the central government .. . First they felt that the city of Changdigar should belong to Punjab rather than its neigh- boring state of Haryana. Second they wanted· a greater water supply to the state of Punjab. Furthermore, they \\anted a quota changed, which had allowed only a certain number of military servicemen per state, depending on the state's population. Finally their last demand was that the state of Punjab be granted autonomy. The National government agreed to most. of the demands, except it would not hand over Changdegarh and grant autonomy to Punjab. As time went on, riots and killings occured, over. these and other matters. The Sikhs began to compare Mrs. Gandhi to Hitler. ~y no means is this true. Mrs. Gandhi even tried to smoothen out the relations, between the Sikhs and the Hindus. Even more, the president of India was a Sikh, Mr. Zail Singh. He was known to be a close friend of the prime minister. Meanwhile many other Sikhs were trying to overthrow the government. These Sikhs were truely fanaticists. They com- bined religion with politics. For instance, when they. first brought arms into the Golden Temple of Amritsar. Realizing that the security of the nation was at stake, Mrs. Gandhi sent in troops. Upon entering the Indian troops uncovered drugs that wo.uld have been used to fund the revolution. The Sikh Religion prohibits the use of alcohol or drugs. To store such material in a temple is pure blasphemy. This shows how religious fanaticists will not hesitate to Jltilize Machiavellian Doctrine at the expense of their Contor ~· religious beliefs. It makes one wonder if their cause is a religious one or a power hungry one. The Sikhs saw Mrs. Gandhi as a threat and last week she was assinated. Not only did we lose a life, we lost a great leader. During her years in office, she kept stable relations with the U.S. and the U.S.S.R., which I believe was a tremendous job to maintain. She kept stability in a nation that has eighteen languages and many religions. She helped feed one of the largest populations in the world, and finally she was one of the few women in history to show the world what a woman can do in a male dominated country. She was a remarkable woman in every sense. India, as well as the world bas suffered a great loss. I feel that terrorism in any form should be eliminated before it does any more damage; as it did last week. . Editors-in-Chief MarcyBurstiner, Gayle Rosenfeld News Editors Sarah Calderini, Judie Steinhardt Features Editors David Fitzgerald, Betsy Treitler Commentary Page Editor David Fran~ ArtsEditors Brian Laux. Linda Raffaele Campus Page Editors Jill Kaufman, Karen RUga SportsEdit(ll'S - Paul Kurker, Lynn O~BrUm ·· . A1lve g Editor Heidi Rosen Ass dvertising Editor Lauren Sobel Phot0Editors Daphne Chigas, Larry Kaminsky Sports.~h?to EtJ!.tors Pat Merritt, Scott Press Subscription Editors Miteh Bernsteint Jim Campbell Sta{f! .. Jeff. Berkowitz, Mickey Bradley,- Val~rie Bromberg, Andrea Bugbee; Ted Cmmon, Torxy- Dunaif, Adam Falk :aob (}reaves, Janice GrOssman, Jay· Grossman, David oUifiver~ Kim Hanc~k,_ AndY' Hl)dgkin~ Jodi Israel, Beth Levine, Erie •. · Lipman,. Maria Lomotan, Emi}¥. Loose; Dave M~in, Peter Mohr,. Eileen O'Connell, Jennifer Paston, Franklin Scbneider, Laurie Sil~erg, Chris Siler, Janice Tbomsont Kerrie Ticknor, Aaron.Tofmer~ Sherry W:ettten. Scott Wykoff. Photo Stat.£: Dan Brotmanl Andrea Buzasi, cara canzani Leela Chowdhury, Da'trid Croasdale, Mike. !>arming. David d-·t.~,. MikeJacobs. · . · ' ·~·) CONOO:a:ti>:~NS{Si~? published eveq Thursday by the student body of Un~on 9oll Carnegie HaJJ., Scbenectatiy, New York 12308; Publications . ee: SUsquehanna Publications Inc. Box 388~ Si®e-y: ~!:'W York 13838,1 (60'1) 563~3526 •. Ent~ hi the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription raW! flB,perye~r, delivered anyWhere in the United States. · . ~~ltDlENSlS subseri'OO$ . to the College .. Press Service ( · .. \' ~nd utilizes the College News Bru:eau (CNB). - , Office telephooo-37&-6155

Page 10 CONCORD/ENS/.\~ Nm·emht•r8, /98.J. RESEARCH FUNDS SPEAKERS I The Subcouncil on Research and Grants is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities for this academic year. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Kaplan's Office ( SlOO) Science & Engineering· Center. The deadline for submission of these applications is Monday, November 12. Questions con- cerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Kaplan, Associate Dean of Faculty. The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foun- dation in two categories-- student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ falls on November 12. Proposals should describe work to be completed during this academic year. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to Dean Kaplan's office (S100) Science & Engineering Center. Members of the College com- munity -who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office. Applications and guidelines are available upon request. Inquiries should be directed to Dean Kaplan, Associate Dean of Faculty. ACROSS 47Margins 49 Symbol for 1 Deadly thoron 6 Falls short 50 Give 11 Administer 52 Created a 12 Onslaught disturbance 14 Near 54 Memoranda 15 Cuddles up 55 Shouts 17 A state: abbr. DOWN 18 Edge 20 Food 1 Daughter of programs Mohammed 21 Unit of 2 Article Japanese 3 Make into currency leather 22 Send forth 4 Matured 24 Single Slnjury 25 Hurried 6 Hesitate Dr. Roy Malpass, Professor of Behavioral Science at SUNY- Plattsburgh, will speak on \Ethical Hedges and Applied Social Psychology\ an Thur- sday, November 15 at 4 p.m. in PY 213. Refreshments will be served. All are -welcome. The Hon. John E. Holt-Harris, Jr\ Chairman of the City of AI bany' s strategic planning committee, will talk about the strategic plan at the next Albany Roundtable luncheon, November 14th at 12 noon at the old Federal Building which is now part of the State University Plaza. The luncheon will be in the large court room on the 3rd floor. Reservations for this lun- cheon are required by Friday, November 9th and should .be made by calling Ed. Maxwell at 434-1214. For more information con- tact: Alan Ray, Valerie Chevrette, Melissa Evans. 518- 474-5842. November 14: AAUW General Meeting; Topic: \Find out what aid is available to help you enter the work force,\ Calvary Methodist Church (Balltown Road and River Road) 7:30 p.m. November 14: \Researching the History of Women's Rights Activities in Brazil,'' June Hahner, SUNY at Albany, Humanities 354, 12:15-1:30 p.m. November 16: Judith Shapiro speaking on \Women in China: The Impact of the Revolution.\ Last Week's Answers 27 Grain 29 Unit of Siamese 26 Planet 7 The sweet sop 28 Whirlpool currency 32 Haste 33 Cardboard box 34 Extras 30 Attempt 31 Sunburn 32 Parts of play 35 Aquatic mammals 38 Shallow vessels 39 Equality 41 Halt 42 aitter vetch 43 A state 45 Petition 46 Latin conjunction 8 Posses'live pronoun 9 Note of scaie 10 Diatribe 11 Female horses 13 Vari~:ties 16 Playing card 19 Fingerless gloves 21 Kind of piano: pl. •. 23 Twists 25 Quarrels 35 Of bad disposition 36 Courses 37 Squander 40 Succor 43 Speck 44 Great Lake 47 Flying mammal 48 The sun · 51 Negative 53 Symbol for thallium 'strauss Lounge, 12:15 p.m: Bring your own lunch. The Union College chapter of Sigma Xi will sponsor a lecture by Dr. Helmut Hirsch, professor of Neurbiology at SUNY Albany, entitled \The Perfectable Brain: 'I'he Role of Sensory. Stimulation During Development\ on November 13 at 4: 30 p.m. in SS 016 on the Union College campus. This presentation is open to the public and will be preceded by refreshments in the lecture room. CLUB NEWS Michael Davis, a juggler and a comedian, wi:ll perform at Union College Friday, Nov. 9, at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Tickets are $1 for students and $3 for the general public, and are available at the Carnegie Hall Box Office. The event is sponsored by Speakers Forum. Newman Folk Group- Sunday, November 11,6:30 p.m. meets with Friar Paul in St. John's Church to prepare for 7:30p.m. Mass. New members welcome. Newman Bible Study- Monday, November 12 at 4 p.m. with Sr. Joan in Religious Programs Office. Newman Weekly Meeting & Social-Monday, November 12 at 8 p.m., 4th floor Lounge, Carnegie. Tutorial Program-Any student interested in tutoring Reading one hour a week to primarily second graders of St. John the Evangelist School, please contact Peter Fischer, 374-3243. FELLOWSHIPS White House Fellowship: One-year progtam in which Fellows serve as special assistants to Cabinet Secretaries or senior members of the White House staff. Fellows also participate in extensive education program. Highly competitive. Deadline: December 1, 1984. stnrd, 2 dr, 2 new Hres, 2 snows, HELP WANTED: 22 mpg. can 370-4703. GOVERNMENT JOBS. $8,342 - $15,177-yr. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. R-4000. Cleaning person needed. Flexible ·hours. Apply :Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream, Mr. Bruno, 346-0251. Furniture store needs strong help to do work pertaining to • furniture store such as delivering, window changing, moving furniture, and so forth. Also need someone who can drive van. Part-time. Ras Jt~urniture Interiors-374-7785. Coleco Industries of Mayfield, N.Y. has full time position available for a plant clerk. Typing, filing, copying, and other office duties too. $5.00-hr. Mon.-Fri. plus half day Sat. morning. Ful'l time Maintenance Technician also needed. Qualifications are basic knowledge of solid state cir- cuitry, basic mechanical knowledge, and basic elec- tricity knowledge. Salary based on experience or ability. Please contact George Lemieux at (518) 661-5421. . I Sales-Cashier positions. Part- time days and evenings. $3.50- hr. Herman Sporting Goods, Wolf Rd., Colonie. Apply in person at office. CLASSIFIEDS Typing, call 382-5668. Student interested in typing, please contact 6227 (on campus) or 439-o817 (Home). Typing: term papers, theses, etc. done by executive secretary. $1 per page. Call Judy at 399-3383. Expert typing, $1 per page. Call Marge at 377-8345. Need a typist? Contact Kathy Shecky, 399-4656 in the late afternoon. Watch found-see Mrs. Marra in Student Activities. For Sale: '76 NOVA, 6 cyl. Two girls looking for an apartment to rent for winter and spring terms. Call Janice (6658) or Robin (6542). WANTED TO BUY: Dining room table and chairs (3 or 4). Need not be in top condition. Also wanted: rugs,. medium\ sized. Please call 370-6543 or 37().6527. DON'T BE LEFT IN THE COLD. PLAN YOUR SPRING BREAK NOW! I need some warm bodies interested in spending 8 sun-filled days and 7 fun-fi:lled nights · in the Bahamas. For more infa con- tact: Cristine, x6418, Box 155lt The Episcopal Church Women of St. George's Church in the Historic Stockade will · hold its annual \CHRISTMAS PREVUE\ Bazaar on Satur- day, November 17, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in Cranmer House, 30 N. Ferry St., Schenectady. THE SHOP AT ST. GEORGE'S will also be open in conjunction with the Bazaar. All of this is in the celebration of the Church's 250th Anniversary of its founding in 1735; and will continue through 1984-1985. If there are any questions, please call 374-3163. Typing: 399-0165. THE FILM COMMITTEE PRESENTS: on 11-9 - 11-11, \Silkwood\ at 7:30 & 10 p.m. and on 11-14, \Notorious\ at 7, 9, 11 p.m. All tickets on sale at Student Activities Desk for $1.00. Films shown in SS016. PERSONALS Franci~-Peer pressure· strikes again! SRP-Happy Birthday! Maybe you can win another football pool. I'm really thirsty. Gamble and take me out on your day. -DIANA Clifton H. Jones and Ann Seemann, the remarn1ng candidates for the position of the director of Schaffer Library, will be on campus this Friday, Nov. 9 and next Wednesday, Nov. 14, respectively. Clifton Jones is currently director of the DeGolyer Library at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas. He was previously manuscript editor for the John Hay Library of Brown University and for the South Dakota State Historical Resources Center. He will be meeting interested. faculty and students in the Humanities Lounge from 1:30 2:30 p.m. and in room 116N in Science and Engineering from 2:45·3:45p.m. Anne Seemann is presently acting director of Schaffer Library and was previously the library's bibliographer. Prior to joining the Union College Library, she edited the Union List of Serials (7th cumulative edition) for the Capital District Library Council for Reference and Research Resources. She will be meeting interested faculty and students in the Humanities Lounge from 1:20-2:30 p.m. and in room ll6N in Science and Engineering from 2:45·3:45 p.m. To All Club Heads: Advertise your club meetings on the Campus News pages each week. Just fill out a classified ad slip from the student ac- tivities booth and drop it off··at the Concordy Office by 4 p.m. each Tuesday.

CON(:ORJ)Jt'N,\'IS, Nm·em/Jer8, /98.J Page II JR (or is it Al?)-Your payment is on its way. You'll make for a good secretary one of these days. NEXT DOOR NEIGHBORS P.S. The wine coolers are still in the.fridge. Come by and pick them up, tip and all! Dear SRP, Have a happy 22nd! Love, Diana and GLR ME, June 4th at 1:00. Karen Risa, What? Did you say whelping? Karen & Mark Ann, Drink lots of Nescafe-I mean have a nice weekend. Ka In exactly 60 days HSWBBKFI in 211. B. Wonders kick booty-right Mary? ' Toni~good to see you out this weekend!!! Afgan Blond, So--if he's not your friend, and you don't like him .... Karen&Jill Risa, Want to balie some cookies? -Your housemates Risa, Hope your 21st is GREAT! We love you, . us IUsa, Getready ... We're going overboard for your birthday. Love, US Hey Roomies, The flowers finally died. Now I don't have anything to carry around with m.e. Love ya, Afgan T.J., You haven't stopped smiling since Tuesday. Karen HAPPY BIRTHDAY SARAH ANDREWS !! T-BONER-CONGRATS, BUDDY!!! I had no doubts you'd succeed, Doc. Now, stop murdering those little fishies. D-Boner TOMMY-0-Now that you're in, we better make plans for weekly ski trips this winter. - K.P. To Amy Queen of South. Come and Get It!!! Diedre & Rich, Congratulations The \inhabitants\ of 210 Fox will be holding a Rummage Sale today in front of Carnegie to raise money to buy new light bulbs. Two incredibly SWANK phantoms (ISP's) will be selling light bulbs today inside Car- negie to benefit the S.G.T.Z.F. (Send Gerhard to Zimbabwe Fund) Women's Ruggers: Well, the season is coming to an end. Buy Mo a beer if you see her in the 'Skeller-she's bummin' cause not only do I kick her ass in rugby and drinking, but now she's making negative profits on the corner of Wun- derburger!!!!!! MAGGOT: Hope you can handle your drinks over there! Watch out for Kibbles for us, please! We miss her (and you too). Marty says he's waiting but doesn't know what to think. Hey..:.I want my car! Take care, SHNOW , WENCH: Why should we wait 'till tomorrow? What can I say but \What the fuc- and that he's a nice guy but not for me?\ But we never do what we say (and never say what we do!) Domino's could tell you that! WENCH Wench! \He's nice--but not for you!'' Anyone want a station-wagon ride instead?! It's not just a job, it's an ad- venture ... hmmmm! .... bein' \all that you can be,\ wench?! Don't be thinkin' 'bout gettin' even now! The old' Roommate! Leslie, Barb, & Wench .(that's yeu Kevilleville! ), Miss you guys-don't give up on me yet! Al To Davies Babies travelin' far from home-We miss you! Meet you in the Skeller winter term! Silo&Al Hellooooooooooo! Bart, the count's 0-2 and you're up to bat again on Friday! Will you \strike out\ or \hit a homerun\ this time ... hmrnmm?! Come hungry! J. Bebb--Your very own personal! Thanks-for watch'in' out for us ... see ya tonight (at your place .... hmmmm?) ! Silo, it's you and me this term, kiddo - and \this one's gonna be different\! So let's do it up right and quit talkin' about it! Hmmm! DaDa! Fall term - the term that ... ! al Evolution of an E- Man? E- ovum, $-zygote, E-fetus, E- infant, E-baby, E-child, E- MAN! ! ! ! But is this truly a man? · We know about New Year's Eve, too bad you did not have as much luck with the Skiddies! Love, your aunts M.R. What do you do with your life once football season is over? Does it really-the big- one? 1960 has come and gone. We do and we do and we do for you kids and this is the thanks we get. Love, the long and short of it. ATTENTION ALL WEALTHY, JEWISH MALES: THE HOFFER NEEDS POPPING! THE HOFFER NEEDS POPPING! To Fendi Bendl: Happy Eighteenth!! Just think, only eighteen years ago, in your previous life, you were jus~ a little fat cell. Now, you ve blossomed into· a terrific per- son. Congratulations on your womanhood! Love, Berrill, Hane, & Parge. ROBBY-You're not legal yet, but you're getting there. Happy Birthday!!! Let's celebrate. Love, Cristina SAL: Do girls just want to have fuH? -me. P.S. I knew a girl named Nikki... Woman: When are you coming to visit for some Tempta.tien Eyes, Pac-Man, and Commando Tactics? I miss you very much, and we still need to bury Choices. Love, J.T. . Sharon-Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthday dear Sharon, happy birthday to you! That's my phone call! D.L.-happy birthday early-I didn't forget! The UK is just like home-ALL WET! Wish you guys were here to get rained on too-where's my letter? -D-SQUARED Lewi- The weather is here; wish you were beautiful! -Dwork Andy K-Get psyched for London. I love you-Cindy. P.S. How is Ralph? December lOth isn't that far away ... Professor S- Thanx for the Concordys-we ALL love them! How 'bout a letter next time?- Such-and-Such · To the little red-haired girl: Living with a bunch of anti- Sophomores! The beer is good, the weather sucks and I wish you could see it all with me. Miss ya lots! Where's my personal? It'' s only been a year now ... Dinner in January-I'll drive (your baby)! Bath will never be quite the same ... Sex Queen-So ·how goes it? Did he blow it? (You know who). Hope not! Miss ya! +Love, the Sex King Happy birthday St~ve Benson on November 5th. And, ... on November 13th ... happy 2 years! -Love from Bath, Cindy. Beth Melissa- I miss you like crazy-Now it's. 45 days and counting! Don't study too hard! Love always, LALA Bologna face-Hallo. How's the cutest person I know? I miss you Joanie! Love, Lori SDT ......:The sisters in Bath miss you! Keep our memory alive. Welcome to all new pledges-Get psyched for our return! Love always, Laura, Barbara, and Cindy Natalie--How are the crushes? AL-You're dead meat! Where is our mail?? Signed, Your .ex-friends in Bath SU:Z and TW-miss you like crazy. Wish you were here. \I just called to say I love you.\ Love, Zig Personals & Classified Ads Must be typed and submitted to the Concordy office or Box 2577 by 5 p.m. Tuesday. Forms are available at the Box Office Rugachek-Hope you've been \Burnin' Down the House\! You deserve it-GO WILD-in remembrance of me! 'Til next spring! Love you and miss you- Babs BITCHES-I miss you! Say hi to Rupsis for me. Take care of those freshmen. Love, Kibbles Hickok 113--\ AH BACH,\ .T H A T ' S H I G H L Y SIGNIFICANT. The Island Fordy and your little friends-No parties in the shower! Is Wally Wally really there? -The Castaways Eric (Merlin)-! ·miss you both. Only 40 days 'till I keep my own side warm! Love, Mon. Heidi-hang onto that N.J.B. and take some afternoon naps for me. I miss you, Monica PVT. SILER-WATCH OUT FOR YOUR BEAR NEXT TERM. THROW THOSE GRENADES STRAIGHT. I.L.Y. MIKE Pete--One Burger to go, enama way; WTF? Miss you- Mike Chris, Pen La Sukram-Keep your feet dry during house meetings. · Heir C. The Bluter & Meatpuppet- Don't drink everything! Rikki: I miss you! Get psyched for a GREAT winter term! See you soon--Love, CHER Ka trina--Sk ellar--Frida y night-one Month-BE THERE! Miss you. Love, DSD Babs-Loved the personal. I am ... I AM!!! Will write soon. Miss you. Love, Rugachek Steve-have you learned the art of FIREPOWER yet? When I come home I'll teach you how to play ... keep practicing! Your friend in Bath The Exchange was great! We love you, Tri Us Tri Us Love! YE YE YE If you Tri one, you'll Tri us all. So, Tri us you'll like us! Skellar, Friday night at 11:00, Tri us! If at first you don't succeed, Tri, Tri, Tri, Tri, and Tri again. Then you've been totally tried. No retries, Please!! Bubbles, This one's for you. Love, Jaws Lisa P.-I miss you so much. Bath is too far from Schenec- tady. Save me a room-Jo Julie M., Beth B. Lisa K-Miss you all! January's not that far away ... but Bath sure is! Love you, Cindy. To Jaws Bradley: Thanx Kiddo! ! ! That BIG mouth has intelligent things to say. Wendell (Bubbles) Attention Blinkey Delman: Go for it! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Blinkey says it's ok. Pinky Z. Carolyn G. Save me a shot~ Wendy Susan Handler: What is sensory and perception? What Paradym? etc. etc. etc Gwendolyn Marole: (in France somewhere) I miss you incredible! ! But. .. dynamic duo back in action winter & spring S.S.S.S. Wendell (in Schenec- tady,) Union College Is, Pleased To Announce The Dates For Parents' Weekend May 10-12, 1985 Please Mark Your Calendar! More information will be available in March Each Thursday at noon the Concordiensis is dropped off at Carnegiee PLEASE help carry a stack or two into Carnegie in on your way in if possible. Thank you. ~-------------------~--------------------_. Concordiensis is seeking writers, photographers, · artists and poets. Submit name, box no. and phone no. to Box 2577

Page 12 CONCORD! ENS/,\~ Nmwnha 8. !98.J cjoumgegdliearn when you combine a comedian and a juggler ifs confusing, but funny. 0 \Davis is an enormous talent The man has a smidgen of gen1us to h1m he should not be missed \ Clive Barnes The New York Post ·'I was as close as I have been to roll1ng m the aisle with -laughter Noth1ng could top h1m \ ____..-· \DaVIS' act IS like a •lethal VIrUS anywhere, ahyt,me. 11 w''ll k-111 1n a matter of seconds ··Rolling Stone M<lg. Mel Gussow l ~ The New York Times ~~\ .; M'ICHAEL DAVIS (a comed1at\ who needs someth1ng to do w1th h1s hands) Friday, November 9,1984 8:00 p.rn MEMORIAL CHAPEL TICKETS: CARNEGIE HALL BOX OFFICE- .. ) ~--.. $·J -~-::. ~- .:. ;~ :~ -~ ~ ).. ~ *O!'<LY* Sl.OOSTUUF.\TS WITIII.ll !3.00 t'OR PI;RI.IC VISIT The Internationally Acdaimed Alternate Oini.ng Experience on Campus THE AMAZING (STUPENDOUS) RO.CK-N·ROLL PIZZA PUB Featuring: Damn Awesome Pizza Scrumptious Su~s Famous Cookies Popcorn Etc; .. TH·IS WEEK'S SP.ECIA;L F·ree Po-pcorn With Any Sub As addenda to the pre· registration procedwre, the Mathematics Depa.rtment wishes to announce the • · following: 1. Seniors will be permitted to sign up for Mathematics courses .prior to November 14. They should come to the department office ' (Bailey Hall 200) and indicate which course o~ . courses they wish to take. No sign-ups will be . a II owed without valid Union I.D. 2. Students who want cards for Mathematics courses on November 14 must bring valid Union I. D. with them when they come to Alumn1 Gym. Schenectady Office For The Aging 101 Nott Terrace Schenectady, NY 12308 Starting soon, the Salvation Army will begin serving daily breakfast to elderly Downtown and Hamilton Hill residents who a.re nutritionally at risk because of inadequate diet or lack of ·access to ·cooking fac i I ities. The program is funded through New York State's Sup· plemental Nutrition Assistance Program and administered by the S<;:henectady County Office for the Aging. Volunteers are needed •. For more info, please c111ll Joan Speller (346-0222) or Office for the Aging (38~·8481). ' : ~ ' ' I ' •, ' • • • • t ' ' • • ' '

('ON( 'ORIJIENSI.S: Norember 8, /98.J Page/3 THEART.S I D ''G · h '' Kap an · oes · roue. o By LINDA RAFFAELE Arts Editor The great Groucho Marx was reincarnated on October 28 as \Groucho\ was brought to the Proctor's stage. The comical yet insightful production featured Gabe Kaplan as Groucho, Robert Hegyes as Chico, and Katherine Stanleigh as all of the women. The play covers the life .of Groucho Marx from his beginnings in a brownstone on East 92nd Street to the time of his death. Kaplan, as Groucho, tells his life .story directly to the audience, with the help of a projector which flashed slides of the real Groucho in the background of the stage. All of the action took place in the home and dressing room of Groucho Marx. Kaplan, clad in typical vau- devillian clothing and holding an everpresent cigar, strut_ted out onstagetoopen the show. ''I know what you're thinking,\ .he said. \He's .too short. He's too tall . . . Well, for the next two hours, I'm him.\ Withthatsaid, for the next two hours, Kaplan really was Groucho, and he played the role to perfection. Not only did he have the audience roaring with old Marx Brothers' jokes-\I'm not in- terested in belonging to any club that would have me as a member\-but he was also able to· successfully convey the other side of Groucho Marx, a man misunderstood by those closest to him, a man who used comedy to escape his real-life sorrows. The first act focused in on the young Groucho and the ex- periences he encoup.tered growing up with four brothers. ''Have you ever been in a bed with four boys who've just started to dream about girl~?\ quipped Kaplan. \You have to wear a raincoat.\ Of his four brothers, Groucho was closest to Chico. According to Groucho, Chico had two in- terests in life: gambling and girls. It was through one of Chico's gambling encounters that the Marx Brothers got involved in their first play. It was called \I'll Say She Is,\ and it was a smash. It played in Philadelphia for over a year before they took it on the road. It opened in New Yor~ on March 14, 1925. Alexander Wolcott, head dramatic critic for the New York Times, gave the play a rave review, and the Marx Brothers became the \toast of - New York.\ Their next two plays were made into movies- \Cocoanuts\ and \Animal Crackers.\ Groucho was married for the first time in 1920. His bride was Ruth Gordon. A picture of Gordon was to be flashed on the background screen when Kaplan first spoke about her. The slides got mixed-up, however, and a picture of a horse was flashed on the screen instead. After about four tries, the technicians finally got it right. The mix-up, others of which occurred during the night, forced Kaplan to do a lot of ad~libbing in order to keep the show running smoothly. He was successful towards this end. In fact, some of the a d-Ubbed lines brought more spontaneous laughter from the audience than those in the script. Groucho was married three times in a:ll. All of his wives were gorgeous, Gentil~, and 21- years · old at . the time of their marriage to him. One of the most interesting parts of the play involved a look into the core of Groucho's marriages. Katherine Stanleigh portrayed all of Groucho's wives in one. As she spoke about their marriages, it became apparent that none of his wives were happy. Stanleig,h described Groucho as \insensitive unromatic, and cheap.\ He never took his wives seriously; he had to make a joke out of everything. Kaplan admitted that Groucho was never able to tell anyone that he loved them. The second act of the play dealt with Groucho's later years. Kaplan represented Groucho's aging process by slowing down the, way he walked and talked. By the time he hit his forties, Groucho's career was in a slump. His last three movies had been flops. Variety magazine had a headline that read: \Groucho Sloucho, and B.O.\ Just when he thought he had hit rock bottom, he was given an offer to be the host of a new quiz show called \You Bet Your Life.\ The show was an instant hit. It lasted 14 years on the air and won Groucho an Emmy. The last scene of the play involved a reporter coming to interview Groucho in order to write a book on him. This served as a· closing synopsis of Groucho's feelings about his life-his accomplishments and his failures. In the final scene, the lights were dimmed, and Kaplan, looking very much older than he had two hours Have you bought your 1985 YEARBOOK yet? Buy one today in the Student Activities Off. M $2 3 (Starting Dec. 1st the cost will be $25.00) All WRUC Members General Meeting TONIGHT Nov. 8th • 7:00p.m. Stage II, Carnegie · previously, walked slowly off the stage. He stopped midway, turned to the audience, and closed with his famous song lyric-''But I am telling you ... I must he going.\ \Groucha\ was a night to remember. It brought back memories of vaudevillian days and old-time Marx Brothers movies. In particular, however, it showed off the immeasurable talent of Gabe Kaptan. The way he interpreted the role and was able to totally immerse himself in it was unbelievable. The show was originally only scheduled for a two week run-that was two years ago. It is no wonder, though, because the magic of Gabe Kaplan makes \Groucho\ a delight. Gabe Kaplan portrayed the great Groucho Marx on October 28 at Proctor's Theatre. Shakespeare at Proctor~s By JANICE C. THOMPSON Staff On Tuesday night, October 30, the acting troupe \Shakespeare & Company\ performed the play \Romeo and Juliet\ at Proctor's. The theatre was filled almost to capacity, and with good reason: the per- formance was extremely well done and highly entertaining. The story of the rn~fated lovers is familiar to most of those who have completed high school English, and thus is usually more popular than Shakespeare's. history plays. It involves the marriage of Romeo, a member of the Montague family, to Juliet, who is the daughter of the Capulets. The two families have been feuding for many years, so the marriage is kept secret. In a street fight, Romeo kills Tybalt, Juliet's kinsman, in revenge of Tybalt's murder of Mercutio, Romeo's friend. Romeo is then banished from the city. Meanwhile, Juliet's parents, ignorant of any connection between Juliet and Romeo, arrange for her to marry Paris, which she does not want to do. She asks Friar Laurence to help her, and he gives her a potion that will cause a death-like stae, and will allow her to escape to Romeo. Romeo, however, does not receive the Friar's ex- planation in time,. and believes that Juliet is really dead. He goes to her tomb and in his grief drinks poison to kill himself. Juliet awakens and .stabs herself when she discovers her dead husband lying near her. The two families realize that their feud is the cause of their loss, and they finally make peace. The audience's reaction to the first act was good, which was obvious by the frequent bursts of laughter. Bawdy jokes and sexual undertones ran rampant throughout the act. The Com- pany emphasized the off-color banter, much to the audience's enjoyment, from the word games and puns of the servants, Sampson and Gregory, to the Nurses' constant garrulousness, to the good- natured joking of Romeo and his friends. Kevin Coleman, who played Mercuito, was particularly brilliant in his portrayal of the funny, risque and constantly entertaining clown of a friend. The acting of Romeo and Juliet, played by Michael Hammond and Natsuk:o Ohama was convincing on the whole, though they both had weak spots in the balcony scene. Romeo's earnestness was too much in this scene, to the extent that the audience laughed at him. Juliet's speech was a little rushed, as if she still had the script in front of her and hadn't quite learned it. Then again, these things could be interpreted as characteristic of their youth and innocence. The Company may have given the first act too much of a jovial, comic nature in order to entertain and maintain audience attention and ap- proval; one might have won- dered just what made this a tragedy. One innovation that gives an indication of the problems to come, though, was in the dance choreography of the Capulet ball. The main part of the dance involved upbeat music and bright costumes, but this part began and ended with more somber music and slow movements of the dancers, who put dark capes over their costumes. Romeo and J.uliet met during this more solemn dance, which put a pall on a normally happy occasion. Peter Wittrock's per- formance of the arrogant, violent and mean Tybalt skillfully . ended the lightheartedness of the first act and ushered in the loss and tragedy of the second. The second act is filled with fighting and death, and almost all hlUilor was gone. The audien- ce's attention lagged a bit for this part, but only because it was so used to the jokes of the first act; it was not due to any fault in the actors' per- formances. The only obvious downfall in the acting was in the part -of Benvolio, played by Charles Halden. He was on stage for much of the first act, but his speeches were shallow, hard to understand, and often very unconvincing. \Shakespeare and Company\ started in the summer of 1978. The purpose of the Company is \To merge a British approach to language and verse with an American emphasis upon emotional truthfulness in ac- ting; to place the actor and the text at the center of classical theatre performance; and to support the actor through consistent and continuous training.\ The Company per- forms Shakespeare plays ex- clusively, and equally values the playwright's words and the actors' performances. Their current tour involves cities in New England, the Northeast, the Midwest and mid-south. Their performance of \Romeo and Juliet\ in Schenectady showed talent and insight into most of the characters, and was an enjoyable experience for local theatre-goers. November at Proctor's American Pop Dance Spectacular: Thurs., November 15, 8 p,m. Tickets are $14, 12, 8.50. New Black Eagle Jazz Band: Sat., November 17,8 p.m. Tickets arE> $10, 8, 6. Allen Mills in a Pops Concert: Sun., November 18,3 p.m. Tickets are $6. NOTE: Proctor's regrets to have t.o inform that Little Shop of Horrors, scheduled to be performed on November 8, 9, 10, has been cancelled because the tour has been discontinued by its producers. STU DENT RUSH: Tickets for Proctor's can be purchased by students at l·2 price 1 hour before the show depending on availability. ·DON'T MISS ... BLACK SHEEP In concert tonight 8 p.m. • Alumni Gym {Free Beer and a Great Show)

CONCORD/ENS!!;: Nm~emh<lr8, 1984 THE ARTS Hegyes Visits Union By GAYLE ROSENFELD ·Editor-in-Chief On Sunday, Oct. 28, Proctor's Theatre hosted the play \Groucho based on the life of Groucho Marx. Gabe Kaplan, most famous for his 1975-1979-80 television show \Welcome Back, Kotter\ played the lead role while another Kotter alumnus, Robert Hegyes, portrayed Chico Marx. Concordiensis was fortunate enough to obtain an interview with this latter star the following Tuesday, Oct. 30. Robert Hegyes is best known for his character, Juan Epstein, Hegyes is involved with a variety of projects: \Prior Commitment\ for the Academy Award winning producer John Longenecker; \Run To Daylight\ with \Happy Days\ alumni Ron Howard and Anson Williams for their Anson-Major H Productions; ''Rotten To The Core\ co-written with Kotter writer-producer Jerry Rannow and Ralph Pape; and ''A Day at the Movies-The Lost Marx Brothers Film\ with \Groucho\ creator Arthur Marx and co-writer ·Jerry Rannow. a career is not common in Hollywood, directing and writing can supplement and compliment such a career. The more skills one has to offer in the field, the better off one is. Career flexibility is important. - in the now defunct \Welcome . -~ Back, Kotter'' situation Hegyes has also just directed veteran comedian Jonathan Winters and Cleavon Little in the first made-for-home video feature \E. Nick ... a legend In His Own Mind.\ Entering this industry and staying in it are two different matters, noted Hegyes. It is ·important to know people to get started, hut \Once you are there;\ said Hegyes, \there is not much time to mess up. The bottom line in the .film in- dustry,'' as in any multibillion dollar a year field,' \is to make money,\ added Hegyes. Therefore, people must do their jobs and do them well to sur- vive. \If you can go there and do the job they'll hire you again and again,'' noted Hegyes; >- L L <0 -' r,·. · comedy, but he has also been >- .0 0 +- 0 ..c c. - Robert Hegyes at the Dutch Hollow Pub during an interview, Tuesday, Oct. 30. involved Ln a great many projects over the last Four years. After Kotter, he starred in \Just Tell Me You Love Me\ and another feature film en- titled ''Underground Aces.\ · He is also president of his own production company, Media- 2000. Through this venture, With all these projects, and more to his credit, it is apparent that Hegyes has been · very active in his chosen career, a profession he truly loves. Quadrangle Jazz Ensemble Performs ... A New Jersey native, Hegyes graduated with a B.A. in Speech, Theater, and Secon- dary Education from Glassboro College. From there, he went on to Broadway and then Los Angeles. He has appeared in such television shows as \CHIPS \The Streets of San Francisco,\ \Love Boat,\ and \Today's FBI\ as well as in many made-for-television films. \Welcome Back, Kotter\ soon followed. Although television is a competitive .field, Hegyes does foresee a bright future especially for women in the industry: \Women are just beginningto take off .. \ They are reaching a more equar standing with men in the field for they are proving just how creative they can be. They are being accepted on their own merit more and more today. Unique Series Continues Also, there~ is a younger breed of creative talent entering the scene now. These individuals' ideas may not be new, but their approaches are· fresh as are their points of view. Powerhouses such as· Steven Spielberg and George Lucas are taking old ideas from the 1930s and 1940s adventure films aRd adding a new twist to that genre. There is ''a certain energy to young people\ that benefits them in the fast-paced world of television production, said Hegyes. It is an area forever open to vibrant people looking for constant challenges. As for Hegyes, he is being \paid for a job that I (he) love(s) to do.\ For him that is an added plus. By MICKEY BRADLEY Staff Jazz is often described as the one music form to have originated in America, but the Quadrangle Jazz Ensemble proved Friday night that it has since traveled the world, and acquired a wide variety of in- fluences along the way. The quartet played jazz of many different styles that exhibited the flexibility of the genre, and expanded the format of jazz music as an art form of cultural expression. The concert began. traditionally enough, with an . updated Charlie Parker tune that set the basic structure after which each song was patterned; an abrupt explosion of the in- struments, which evolved into a quick succession of solos (brass, guitar, bass, and drums), then resolved with all four re-synchronized. But after that it was quite evident that something new and exciting was going on. Guitarist Tom Ross introduced each number informally, often discussing its cultural background and beat structure. The band ex- perimented with such un- conventional time measures as five and seven beat tunes, and sixteen-bar blues, and exhausted every style from salsa to blues, from funk to supper-club jazz. And their influences were all over the map, borrowing freely from the cultural inflections of Brazil, New Guinea, Zimbabwe, India, and America (mostly the South), to name a few. The source for most of the cultural assimilations in the songs was not so much the music as the mus1c1ans themselves. Tom Ross, who played guitar and also handled the evening's few vocal per- formances, has studied under South Indian master T. Viswanathan (who performed at Union last month) and is also a student of African percussion music. ~ob Kolb has played woodwinds and brass all over America, and has backed such famous lounge acts as Sammy Davis Jr., and Tony Bennett. Drummer Royal Hartigan (sitting in for Ignacio Berroa) has studied the music of Chinese theatre, South India, and West Africa, and bass-man Jeff Fuller has played . with Dave Brubeck. All of the band members are graduates of Yale, where they met and formed ten years ago. Since· then, they have performed worldwide, keeping their ears open and fusing what they heard with traditional American jazz. The result is inventive, invigorating \nouveau jazz\ that owes much to many, but stands on its own as truly original. For instance, how many jazz bands today might incorporate a homemade African mbira to enhance a piece? How many would chose a tribal chant for their audience sing-along? And, though all of jazz requires much embellishment and inflective- interpretive improvisation, how many bands would dare try a total improvisation in the middle of a song? Not only would few be brave enough to attempt it, but even fewer could be so successful. The en- semble's excursion into spontaneous experimentation was an exciting testament to ~ach player's talent and the well-understood interaction between the members. Har- tigan skillfUlly manipulated an unorthodox beat with cool sophistication and each player added on just the right touch; completing the sound without clumsily running into each other. This kind of im- provisational playground was fun and fascinating to watch, and it seemed to spark new life into the musicians, as well as the audience. All of the pieces were well- arranged and well-played. Several original numbers were performed, in addition to worldwide standards by such Concordy is looking for creative writi.ng • poems • short stories etc. Pleas.e submit all work to Box 2577 by Tuesday at 4 p.m& jazz le_gends as Duke Ellington and Charlie Parker, often performing-them with new and unusual twists. The entire evening was as educational as it was entertaining: the Quadrangle Jazz Ensemble has expanded the boundaries of American jazz to include global stylings, and have brought to it a fresh outlook that defies limitations. It was that in- ventive perspective that made last Friday night so enjoyable. The concert was the second in the six-part Traditions Of Improvisation series, the next segment of which will be glass harmonica, voice, and piano, on January 25, in the Arts Building's new concert hall. As for acting, \It is something I always wanted to do,\ ad- mitted Hegyes. In actuality; \Acting was that entry position that I chose to move into directing,\ added Hegyes. Although Hegyes prefers directing and writing to acting, he hopes to continue pursuing both crafts: What. proved so helpful in acting is that \It gave me a situation where I was able to learn about writing, producing ... and the business aspect of the industry,\ said Hegyes. Longeviety in acting as Co-.presidents of ~he Jazz E_nsemble, Jim Hassenfield and Craig Fowler, and Vice President of Un1on Thomas DAndrea Will be among the performers appearing as the Union Jazz Ensemble and the Ron ~artch-Lew Petteys Band get together on November 13 at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Each band w1ll perform separately and then together in a climactic Duke Ellington medley The performance is being sponsored by the Musicians Performance Trust Fund of the schene~tady Musicians Union. The concert is free and the public is invited to attend. Need a Gift? The Schenectady Museum Shops, 12-5 p.m. Weekends 1 0-4:30 p.m. Tues.-Fri. Master Char e/VISA tl :J' 0 ..... 0 tl' '< 0 QJ 'tl :r ::l 10 () :r tCi' QJ (/)

PaJ,:e 1 .J ( l J 'V( ( JRO!F.\'.\'1.\', 'Von·mher X. JW'I.J aW = ... THE ARTS / 1 NSG- W . .... *;;;;:;;; w;;an& Z B4¢1W:; Hegyes Visits Union By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor-in-( 'hid On Sundav. ( )ct 28, Pror:tor's Theatr\ hosted tht• play ·•( ;roueho.\ basf'd nn the life of (;roucho \1arx <;abe Kaplan. most famous for h1s 1!175-1979-80 televisiOn show \Welrome Hack. Kotter\ played the lead ro!P while another Kotter alumnus. Hobert Hegyes. portrayed Chico :vtarx. Conrordlensis was fortunate enough to obtain an interview w1th this latter star the following Tuesda v. Oct. 30. Robert Hegyes ·is best known for his c>haracter . .Juan F:pstein. m the now defunct \Weleome Hegyes is involved with a \' ari ety of projects: .. Prior Commitment\ for the Academv Award wmnmg producer .John Lungent'CkE'r: \Run To Daylight\ with \Happy Days\ alwnni !{on Howard and Anson Wt!liams for their Anson-Major H Productions: \Rotten To The Core.. co-wntten with Kotter \Hiler-producer .Jerry Rannow and Ralph Pape; and \A Day at the Movies- The Lost Marx Brothers Film\ with \(;roucho\ creator Arthur Marx and co-writer .Jerrv Rannow. · a career is not common in Holly:\'ood. directing and wntmg can supplement and compliment such a career. ThP more sk1lls one has to offer m the field, the better off one 1s. ( ·areer flexibility is important. / Hack. Kotter\ situation comedy. but he has also been ( Hegyes has also just directed veteran comedian Jonathan Winters and Cleavon Little in the first made-for-home video feature \E. Nick ... a legend In His Own Mind.\ Entermg this industrv and staying in 1t are two different matters, noted Hegyes. It is m1portant to know people to get started, but ·'Once vou are there,\ said Hegyes, .:there is not much time to mess up. The bottom line in the film in- dustry,\ as in any multibillion dollar a year field,' \is to make money.\ added Hegves. Therefore, people must do their jobs and do them well to sur- vive. \If you can go there and do the job they'll hire you again and again,'' noted Hegyes. 'nll'r v ll'W, involved in a great manv projects over the last fou·r years. After Kotter. he starred in \Just Tell \lie You Love Me\ and another feature film en- titled \Underground Aces.\ He is also president of his own production company. \1edia- :woo. Through th1s venture. With all these projects and more to his credit. it is apparent that Hegyes has been verv active in his chosen career, a profession he trulv loves. Quadrangle Jazz Ensemble Performs., Q • A New .Jersey native, Hegyes graduated with a B.A. in Speech. Theater. and Secon- dary Education from Glassboro College. From there, he went on to Broadwav and then Los Angeles. He· has appeared in such television shows as ··CHIPS.\ \The Streets of San Francisco,\ \Love Boat.\ and \Today's FBI\ as well as in many made-for-television films. \Welcome Back. Kotter\ soon followed. Although television is a competitive field, Hegyes does foresee a bright future especially for women in the industry: \Women are just beginning to take off.\ They are reac:hing a more equal standing with men in the field for they are proving just how creative they can be. They are being accepted on their own merit more and more today. Unique Series Continues Also, there is a younger breed nf creative talent entering the scene now. These individuals' ideas may not be new. but their approaches are fresh as are their points of view. Powerhouses such as Steven Spielberg and George Lucas are taking old ideas from the 1930s and 1940s adventure films and adding a new twist to that genre. There is \a certain energy to young people\ that benefits them in the fast-paced world of television production, said Hegyes. It is an area forever open to vibrant people looking for constant challenges. As for Hegyes. he is being \paid for a job that I 1 he 1 love Is 1 to do.\ For him that is an added plus. Hy VlKKEY BRADLEY Staff .Jazz is often described as the one music form to have originated in America. but the Quadrangle Jazz Ensemble proved Friday night that it has since traveled the world. and acquired a wide varietv of in- fluences along the wav. The quartet played jazz o( many different styles that exhibited the flexibility of the genre, and expanded the fonnat of jazz music as an art fonn of cultural expression. The eoncert began traditionally enough. with an updated Charlie Parker tune that set the basic structure after which each song was patterned: an abrupt exploswn of the in- struments. which evolved into a quick suecession of solos 1 brass. guitar. bass. and drums 1, then resolved with all four re-synchronized. But after that it was quite evident that sonwthing new and exciting was going on. Guitarist Tom Hoss introduced each munber mformally. often discussing its cultural baekground and beat structure The band ex- perimented with such un- conventional time measures as five and seven beat tunes. and sixtE>en-bar blues. and exhausted everv stvle from salsa to blues. ·from funk to supper-dub jazz. And their mrJuen[·es were all over the map. borrowmg freely from the 1'Ult ural inflections of Brazil. \pw <iuinea, Zimbabwe, India. :HHl America r mostlv the South 1, to name a fpw. · ThP source for most of the cultural assimilations in the songs was not so much the music as the musicians themsel\'es. Torn Ross. who played guitar and also handled the evening's few vocal per- formances. has studied under South Indl<Hl master T. Viswanathan · whr1 performed at t:nwn last month, and 1s also a student of Afn['an percussion mus11· Hob Ko!b has played woodwmds and brass all over America. and has backed such famous lounge acts as Sammy Davis .Jr .. and Tony Bennett Drummer Royal Hartigan ' sitting in for Ignacio Berroa 1 has studied the music of Chinese theatre. South InrHa. and West Africa, and bass-man Jeff Fuller has played with Dave Brubeck. All of the band members are graduates of Yale. where they met and formed ten years ago. Since then. they have performed worldwide, keeping their ears open and fusing what they heard with traditional American jazz. The result is inventive. invigorating \nouveau jazz\ that owes much to many, but stands on its ov.'TI as truly original. For instance, how many jazz bands today might incorporate a homemade African mbira to Pnhance a piece: How many would chose a tribal chant for their audience sing-along? And. though all of jazz requires much embellishment and inflective- interpretive improvisation. how manv bands would dare trv a totai Improvisation in the middle of a song? Not onlv would few be brave enough to attempt it, but even fewer could be so successful. The en- semble's excursion into spontaneous experimentation was an exciting testament to each player's talent and the well-understood interaction between the members. Har- tig<m skillfully manipulated an unorthodox beat with cool sophistication and each player added on just the right touch; completing the sound without clumsily running into each other. This kind of im- provisationa I playground was fun and fascinating to watch, and it seemed to spark new life into the musicians. as well as thr audience. All of the pieces were well- arranged and we 11-pla yed. Several ori!o{inal numbers were pt'rformed. in addition to worldvnde standards by such Con~ordy h; looking for c:lf'aaUve wri'S'ing \' po~ms o shor~ z'li'orrie!ll Please submit ali work to Sox 2.577 by Tuesday at 4 p.m. ]azz legends as Duke Ellington and l'harlie Parker. often performing them with new and unusual twists. The entire evening was as educational as it was entertaining: the Quadrangle Jazz Ensemble has expanded the boundaries of American jazz to include global stylings, and have brought to it a fresh outlook that defies limitations. It was that in- ventive perspective that made last Friday night so enjoyable. The concert was the second in the six-part Traditions Of Improvisation series, the next segment of which will be glass harmoniea, voice, and piano. on .January 25, in the Arts Building's new concert hall. As for acting. \It is something I a! ways wanted to do,\ ad- mitted Hegyes. In actuality, ··Acting was that entry position that 1 chose to move into directing.\ added Hegyes. Although Hegyes prefers directing and writing to acting, he hopes to continue pursuing both crafts. What proved so helpful in acting is that ··It gave me a situation where I was able to learn a bout writing, producing ... and the business aspect of the industry.\ said Hegyes. Longeviety in acting as Co pn:\'1dt•nts of 1t1e Jazz Ensembl1·, J11n Hnsscnt.elcl .Hld Cra1g Fowler. and V1CP Pres 1 c!cnl of Un1on Tnomas D'APdrecJ will be an1onq the pcrforml'r'o cJPP•-'drinq a<, ttw Un1on JilZZ Ensprnt)IP ,1nc1 lt11' Ron Partct1 Lf>W Pettey'> Bilncl qct togetrh·r on Novrmhr·r 13 ell 8 p rn in M<·mor1cJI CildPt'i EclCh bnnd will pprform sPpnrotcly oncJ tr1en togl'lhPr 1n ,, ri1!Yiact•c Duke EllinC,Jton nlC'c1iry. rt 1 c p<'rformdnrl' 1S bc1nq sponsorcct tJy the Mus1c1ans Pf·rfo~rn,lnc.c 1 rust Funcf of thP Schencct, 1 dy Mu'>lt ldf1S Union Ttw concert's free cincl thC' putJI1c •'> l'lVil<·ll to aiiEmcl eed a G~ft? fhe Schenectady Mui«nnw Shops 'hl2 .. 5 pemo Weekerod1 10 .. 4:30 porno luese ... fri. Master Char e/VISA a :;;:; 0 0 0' <

s. ~. a y g d ~· n d n d a ~. d 0 d ::l ::l' (J1 CONCORIJIENS/;\: Noremher8. 1984 Paxe 15 By PAUL KURKER Sports Staff Congratulations to senior goaltender Mike Harris of the varsity soccer team for being named this week's Athlete of the Week. Harris has been .the backbone of the Dutchmen's . success this season and will lead the boaters into their second consecutive NCAA post season appearance. Mike recorded an impressive 11-1-1 record in goal this season and also posted five shutouts. As a Athlete of two year starter, Harris'· recorct stands at 23-4~3 with nine shutouts. Last year, the Dut- chmen ranked sixth in the country and first in the state behind Harris' outstanding goaltending. The 5 foot 11 inches Harris is an economics major and hails from Lexington, MA where he was all-league in the potent Middlesex League .. Congratulations and good luck to Mike and the entire Varsity Soccer team on their quest for the NCAA title. Navy Gold: Forged in a. Tradition of Excellence the Week Because the Officers wearing it are the best in the world at what they do ... they have to be It takes a special breed of aviator to meet the chaUenges of Naval Aviation. Strong, dedi- cated professionals who can control the world's most sophisti- cated aircraft. There· s no room over the oceans for aviators that are second-best. Beneath the surface pulses a unique environment few will ever challenge. Only an uncompromised standard of exceUence earns a submariner his dolphins. The Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officers wear them. To find out if yot:~'re qualified. see the Navy Representa- tive that will be in jhe Campus Center on November 13 or call collect (S 18) 462-6119. Minority Students Encouraged to Apply Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast. l!ne rr{duitf!Jalllt( pi[: ScottWykoH On Sports Over the last two years the word playoff has become synonymous with Union athletic teams and end of the season aspirations. One year ago Bob Magee's young soccer team earned a post season NCAA bid while Al Bagnoli's garnet .E football team was preparing for ~ a must win game against a. Hamilton and a chance to get a 0 post season bid of their own. V'J Call it de ja vu or whatever you wish, but one year later both Dutchmen squads find them- selves in the same situations as the first week of November '83. Mirror Image: Only one team stands between the Dutchmen gridders and a return trip to the NCAA Football Playoffs. They are the Hamilton Continentals and our friends to the west are in the midst of the schools first winning football season since way back in 1967. The Hamilton pigskin turnaround has evolved much along the same lines as the Union U-turn. Three years ago Steve Stetson took over the Head Coaching reigns at the Clinton, NY institution and the third year coach has tnstilled a winning spirit that has led to this fall's. 5-1-1 record. Stetson brought in a hard working coaching staff, an intensive weight training program and the dividends have shown up in a football program with new spirit and life. The once apathetic student body has thrown its support Stetson's WaY and the young head coach Dutchmen Hockey Come see the opening regular season game Saturday night against Colgate at Achilles Rink, 7:30p.m. :Dteetre.c b~ 'D I #IE SA-O A-\< looks towards establishing Hamilton as one of the East's top small coUege pmgrams. The Continentals will face their toughest challenge of the season Saturday as the play host to a Union squad that can guarantee itself a post season playoff bid with a win. The Continental's offense, much like the Dut- chmen, revolves around its quarterback, one Seamus Crotty. Crotty set an NCAA small school record two. weeks ago as he threw and ran for a total of 515 yards. Both Crotty and Union's. Dan Stewart are big play QB's and tne match up brings back menJ\.lries of last years Trinity game when Stewart and the Dutchmen slipped past Joe Sheilds ex- plosive Bantam throwing at- tack. Scouting reports praise Hamilton's high flying offense but point to the fact that the Continental defense may be a bit suspect. Only two weeks ago, Middlebury, a team that Union shutout, scored a whopping 31 points against Steve Stetson's Hamilton defense. With three teams still undefeated coming into the last week of the season, (Hofstra, Plymouth and Union) the Hamilton Continentals could make the playoff selection committee's job quite a bit more difficult with an upset Saturday. Return Engagement: While the Dutchmen football team looks to earn a playoff berth with a win Saturday, Bob Magee's garnet booters got the good news Monday and played host to Fredonia St. yesterday in the opening round of the NCAA Div. III soccer tour- nament. Magee knew coming into this falls season that he had a team that potentially was even better than last years squad that won tne NY State region, beating RIT and Buffalo St. The Dutchmen got out of the gates quickly and by mid- October Magee thought his squad had possibly reached its potential as they knocked off the nations third ranked team, Brandeis. But complacency seemed to settle in only three days later as the Engineers from RPI took the win out of the garnet sails with a 4-3 upset win. The team got together after the lackluster performance against RPI and decided that to make the playoffs they would have to go undefeated in the seasons last seven games. They went on to win the last seven regular season outscoring their op- ponents 36-4 while posting four shutouts along the way. Once again Peter Stegeman led all Dutchmen scorers during the regular season and has moved into third place on the schools all time scoring list. Even though he's Union's leading scorer, the senior will be the first to admit that the sophomores have been the backbone of the squads recent success. Two years of college, two years of playoffs, not too bad.

j j j t t } CO.'W ORDJ F.V.\15), .Voremher H. I 9H.J PaJ.:<' I 5 SPORTS By PAUL KURKER Sports Staff Congratulations to senior goaltender Mike Harris of the varsity soccer team for being named this week's Athlete of the Week. Harris has been the backbone of the Dutchmen· s success this season and will lead the hooters into their second consecutive NCAA post season appearance. Mike recorded an impressive 11-1-1 record in goal this season and also posted five shutouts. As a Athlete of two year starter, Harris' record stands at 23-4-3 with nine shutouts. Last year, the Dut- chmen ranked sixth in the country and first in the state behind Harris' outstanding goaltending. The 5 foot 11 inches Harris is an economics major and hails from Lexington, MA where he was all-league in the potent Middlesex League. Congratulations and good luck to Mike and the entire Varsity Soccer team on their quest for the NCAA title. Navy Gold: Forged in a Tradition of Excellence the Week Because the Officers wearing it are the best in the world at what they do ... they have to be It takes a special breed of aviator to meet the challenges of Naval Aviation. Strong. dedi- cated professionals who can control the world's most sophisti- cated aircraft. There's no room over the oceans for aviators that are second-best. Beneath the surface pulses a unique environment few will ever challenge. Only an uncompromised standard of excellence earns a submariner his dolphins. The Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officers wear them. To find out if you·re qualified. see the Navy Representa- tive that will be in the Campus Center on November 13 or call collect (518) 462-6119. Minority Students Encouraged to Apply Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast .. '!!fie rr{dll!ll6rii( ~nlf: Nov. t,q,\0 1 1?-ll n i f'M I n '+h.. tJut+ H erM\'la.l Thr~ r- ~ 35-!Mtrrh 1 4 ffic.u~ - #5 G,.eneroJ Pubb L Scott Wykofi On Sports Over the last two years the word playoff has become synonymous with Union athletic teams and end of the season aspirations. One year ago Bob Magee's young soccer team earned a post season :'>iCAA bid while AI Bagnoli 's garnet o football team was preparing for ~ a must win game against o. Hamilton and a chance to get a e post season bid of their own. If) Call it de ja vu or whatever you wish, but one year later both Dutchmen squads find them- selves in the same situations as the first week of November '83. Mirror Image: Only one team stands between the Dutchmen gridders and a return trip to the NCAA Football Playoffs. They are the Hamilton Continentals and our friends to the west are in the midst of the schools first winning football season since way back in 1967. The Hamilton pigskin turnaround has evolved much along the same lines as the Union U-turn. Three years ago Steve Stetson took over the Head Coaching reigns at the Clinton, NY institution and the third year coach has instilled a winning spirit that has led to this fall's 5-1-1 record. Stetson brought in a hard working coaching staff, an intensive weight training program and the dividends have shown up in a football program with new spirit and life. The once apathetic student body has thrown its support Stetson's way and the young head coach Dutchmen Hockey Come see the opening regular season game Saturday night against Colgate at Achilles Rink, 7:30p.m. :DIRetrEO b~ 1)1.+tvE SA-OA-K looks towards establishing Hamilton as one of the East's top small college programs. The Continentals will face their toughest challenge of the season Saturday as the play host to a Union squad that can guarantee itself a post season playoff bid with a win. The Continental's offense. much like the Dut- chmen. revolves around it:; quarterback. one Seamu:- Crottv. Crottv set an NCA.\ smali school record two week~ ago as he threw and ran for a total of 515 yards Both Crotty and Union's Dan .~tewart are big play QB's and tne match up brings back men 1ries of last years Trinity game when Stewart and the Dutchmen slipped past Joe Sheilds ex- plosive Bantam throwing at- tack. Scouting reports praise Hamilton's high flying offense but point to the fact that the Continental defense may be a bit suspect. Only two weeks ago, Middlebury, a team that Union shutout, scored a whopping 31 points against Steve Stetson's Hamilton defense. With three teams still undefeated coming into the last week of the season, I Hofstra, Plymouth and Union l the Hamilton Continentals could make the playoff selection committee's job quite a bit more difficult with an upset Saturday. Return Engagement: While the Dutchmen football team looks to earn a playoff berth with a win Saturday, Bob Magee· s garnet hooters got the good news Monday and played host to Fredonia St. yesterday in the opening round of the NCAA Div. III soccer tour- nament. Magee knew coming into this falls season that he had a team that potentially was even better than last years squad that won the NY State region, beating RIT and Buffalo St. The Dutchmen got out of the gates quickly and by mid- October Magee thought his squad had possibly reached its potential as they knocked off the nations third ranked team, Brandeis. But complacency seemed to settle in only three days later as the Engineers from RPI took the win out of the garnet sails with a 4-3 upset win. The team got together after the lackluster performance against RPI and decided that to make the playoffs they would have to go undefeated in the seasons last seven games. They went on to win the last seven regular season outscoring their op- ponents 36-4 while posting four shutouts along the way. Once again Peter Stegeman led all Dutchmen scorers during the regular season and has moved into third place on the schools all time scoring list. Even though he's Union's leading scorer, the senior will be the first to admit that the sophomores have been the backbone of the squads recent success. Two years of college. two years of playoffs, not too bad.

Page 16 CONCORD/ENS/~~ Ntn•ember8, 1984 OR Booters Playoff Bound Union 38 GARNET SCO:REBO·ARD Oct. 29-Nov. 4 FOOTBALL {8·0) Mi9dlebtrry0 MEN'S SOCCER (12-1-1) 1:: 10 E ..... 0 ...... Ill 1:: 10 Cl >- .0 0 ..... 0 .c: a. ByADAMFALK Sports Staff The men's varsity soccer team rounded off the 1984 regular season play, by defeating Vassar College and St. Lawrence University !H) and 1.0, respectively. These vic- tories, not only upped Union's record to 12-1·1, but also assured their NCAA playoff spot. Union was seated as the No.2 team in New York State, and begins their quest for the National Championship on Wednesday against Fredonia State. Last Wednesday, Union faced Vassar College, in what was thought to be a strong Vassar team. Vassar was 12-2-2, and ranked No. 10 in the state, coming into this contest, but Union didn't allow these statistics to affect the game in any way. They new that every game was a \must win\ and this one was no different. Once again, the Dutchmen came out strong, pounding the Vassar defense for five goals, each of which were unanswered by the Vassar attaclt. Senior Stopper, Chris Roberts, started things off by netting his third goal .of the season. Dave Tewksbury added two more, while Jim Monks and Steve Hartman each added one each. On Saturday, Union traveled to St. Lawrence to take .on a strong and well disciplined Saints team. Although the Saints record is not particularly strong (5-1-o), they are a fine defensive team and one who is always determined to win. But Union knew how important this game was. A win here would assure their ticket to the playoffs, a goal which they had J?een striving all season to at- tain. The game was primarily a defensive battle for the first ninety minutes of .play. Although Union pressed the S.L.U. goal, fine defensiveplay, held the Dutchmen scoreless. The game then proceded into two ten minute overtime Senior Steve MacGillivary (25) and Junior Scott Richardson ( 15) f~rcheck the McGill zone in the Skating Dutchmen's 4-2 pre-season VIctory. The season opens Saturday night at home vs. Colgate. Harriers Place 8th At State Meet By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff Despite average per- formances by most of the Union men's cross country team, the Dutchmen faired about as expected placing eighth out of 21 teams at the New York State Meet Saturday at Siena College. The one · bright spot last Saturday for the Dutchmen was number one runner Chris O'Donnell who, Coach Russ Ebbets commented, ran his best race all year. The blonde-haired junior from Vermont ran well enough to place 15th in the race recording a time of 28:13. Placing second for the Dut- chmen, running a good race but finishing a distant 44th was sophomore Mike Reed. Also placing for the Dutchmen, in order, were sophomores Bob Stenard and Nell Ricks and freshman Pat DiCerbo finishing 53rd, 67th, and 68th respec- tively. According to Coach Ebbets they each ran so--so races but it was not a bad race for the team. Ebbets seems satisfied with the team's finish because he feels on paper that is how his team was figured to finish. Also finishing for Union was junior Tim Orcutt who finished 72nd and junior Bill McRoberts, normally Union's number two runner just behind O'Donnell, finished 92nd. McRoberts, according to Coach Ebbets, felt sluggish throughout the race and couldn't get going to run a good race. Despite this set-back, O'Donnell and the rest of the team ran well enough to score 247 points and finish six points ahead of ninth place Colgate but 49 points behind Marist. Winning individual honors Saturday was Jukka Tanunisuo from St. Lawrence finishing with a time of 27:15. Taking the team title_ was Siena College with 72 points followed by St. Lawrence 76, Fredonia 97. U. of Rochester 158, Ithaca 158, SUNY Cortland 183, Marist 198, and Union 247. This coming Saturday the Dutchmen take part in the NCAA Qualifiers. Needing to finish in the top three teams, Coach Ebbets feels his squad does not have a very realistic shot at going as a team· this year. He goes on to say, though, that O'Donnell has an outside shot at going individually. periods. The Saints were able to hold the hooters through the first overtime., but then with approximately three minutes remaining; the Union offense ignited. Senior captain Pete Stegeman connected off a ·pass from Hartman to <break the tie for the Dutchmen. This was not only a great win for the hooters, but the first time in Union's history .in which they beat the Saints at St. Lawrence. Union 5 Union l Union WOMEN'S SOCCER Vassaro St. Lawrence 0 Albany State MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY Placed 9th at State Meet DUTCHMEN SPORTS WEEK Nov. 8-14 Saturday 11/10 Football at HamHton l: 30 p.m. Meh's, Women's X-Country--NCAA Qualifier Hockey vs. Colgate 7:30p.m, ... face Hamilton Saturday Dutc.hmen S·hutout Panthers By TED CANNON Sports Staff For the first quarter of play it appeared as if Union would be in a dogfight to remain un~ beaten. Twenty one unanswered second quarter points, however, and a big defensive play late in the first half W{)uld be the dif- ference between a dogfight and a rout, as Union walked away tasting sweet revenge, with a 38-0 whitewashing of Mid- dlebury. Early in the second period, senior quarterback Dan Stewart found senior flanker RichKellaherin the endzone for .a 4-yard T.D. pass to give Union a 7-0 lead. The reception by Kellaher was his 18th career T.D. grab, a new Union College record. Moments later Kellaher would catch his lOoth career pass to set a new record for career receptions. Four minutes after the first score, Stewart, read a blitz nicely, and found senior fullback Steve Olsen on a quick out. Olsen hauled in the pass, and dashed 47-yards for the touchdown to give Union a 14-0 edge. Stewart finished the scoring in the first half himself with a nifty 28-yard T .D. run on an option play. Middlebury almost got back in the game with 37 seconds left in the first half. After driving down the field, the Panthers faced a first and goal from the one. On their first play, junior, outside linebacker Joe Waters made a crushing hit on the Middlebury running back to force the ball loose. Senior defensive end Brian Cox recovered the fumble and dashed any hopes of a Panther comeback. In the third period, junior distance placekicker Pete Cohan drilled a 44-yard fieldgoal to extend Union's lead to 24-0. Minutes later, Stewart hit senior tightend Frank Kraft for a 41-yard score. Lambert/Meadowlands Cup Team Pts. l.UNION(4) 49 2. Hofstra 41 3. Plymouth St. 32 4. Norwich 25 5. Ithaca 21 6. Merchant Marine 20 6. Amherst 20 8. Salisbury St. 19 9. Wa!?hington & Jefferson 7 9. Swarthmore 7 NEFNL NCAA Poll T~am Pts. 1. Augustana, I L (4) 60 2. UNION 55 5. Salisbury St., MD 40 6. HofstrC! 381/2 10. Plymouth St. 24 Stewart, on the day, reached career totals of 359 completions in 758 attempts for 5,138 and 53 touchdowns, all of which are Union College records. Freshman tailback Cecil Bright sprinted 4()-.yards, 'in the fourth quarter, for Union's final score. Sophomore linebacker Bob Loparo and senior linebacker Art Polirneno again played well replacing. the injured starters Pat Wright and Marty Glaze. The Dutchmen are 8-0 and are one win away from- achieving the best regular season record in Union's 98-year football Fullback Steve Olsen grabs a Dan Stewart pass and sprints for a touchdown in Union's 38-0 win over Middlebury. Defensively, Union was outstanding in gaining its fifth shutout in eight games. Union collected six turnovers. Tony Valente, Art Polilneno, and Cox all recovered fumbles for Union, while Len Huttner (14th career), Bob Bertagna (15th career), and Reinhardt Walker· all had interceptions. history. A win over Hamilton will not only make Union 9-0, it would assure them of a birth in the Div. III, NCAA playoffs. Hamilton, however, is 5-1-1 and plays a tough schedule. The Continentals have not beaten Union since 1980, and are hungry fm: a big win. Game time is 1:00 P.M. at Hamilton. The women's Volleyball team has had a successful season. NEFNL NEFNL Upstate NY Poll Northeast Poll Team Pts. Team Pts. 1. UNION Cl:Ol 58 l. l:J NION (9) 53 2. Ithaca (1), 46 2. Plymouth St. 31 3. Hofstra ( 1) 31 3. Ithaca ( 1) 27 4. Hamilton 22 4. Norwich 24 Alfred 10 5. Amherst (1 l 16 . ( - <f). ttl 01 .c u (!) c .c c. ttl 0 >- .a Q 0 §. +- +- ,_ I ,_ (!) ~ +- ttl a. >- ..a 0 .,_ 0 .c c. F ~ F n d tl e F 1 \1 \ y p I d l i~ F c il p n y f \1 s Ol p ... f OJ .n A c ro s 0 OJ 1\ -\- ~ tc >- .n h 0 ... F 0 .!: F. c. E 1\ Sl b a h a p p C' ti n E

~ker ~ze. are ord . it +- ...... ,_ ,_ Q) ~ .._ ro a. >- .J:l 0 +- 0 .c c. Cl ... QJ .0 c ro 0 QJ ::1. ~ > .0 E 0 .c c. -· CXIV, No.8 <f). ttl 01 .c u CL> c: .c: 0. rc 0 >- .0 0 0 c a. Butterfield Hall was closed last Monday morning because of a bomb scare. ,, . ege 1877 Schenectady, New York BombsAway ... Bulk Rate U.S. Postage Paid Permit'No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 November 15, 1984 Security Acts on Threat By JUDIE STEINHARDT News Editor On Monday, November 12., morning classes in Butterfield Hall were canceled because of a \bomb scare.\ At 8: 22 in the morning, a ''male caller phoned Security Control Center and stated that there was an ex- plosive device to go off in Butterfield Hall, and hung up,\ according to Assistant Director of Security and Safety Pierce Fitzgerald. Fitzgerald said that the building was completely evacuated at that point because \we would treat that as if it were a bomb, we don't treat it\ as an idle threat. Security has regular procedures it follows in such incidents, and aU ofthem were rarried out in this instance. These procedures involve such actions as \notification of the Schenectady Police Depart- ment Bomb Squad and the S~henectady Fire Depart- ment,\ explained Fitzgerald. Search conducted He continued, \A search of the building was conducted by security personnel and Schenectady po~ice which turned up negative results. At that time, based on the in- formation and established bomb procedures, it was recorrunended by Schenectady police that the building be closed until noon. For the safety of everyone involved, we closed it.\ proposed that the phone call may have been the result of the fact that several exams were scheduled in Butterfield for Monday morning. Fitzgerald states that if this is so ''it didn't do any good. Professors are making alternative plans for the exams.\ The theory that the caller was a student who did not want to take an exam is not the only possibility being explored, and should not be considered definite. Safety paramount In general, procedures went smoothly, and professors and students were very cooperative . It may have seemed a bit dramatic to go through so much just for one threatening phone call. Forum By-Laws Passed The securement of the building included the locking of all !Jfi:rimeter ;dogr~ anq en- . tranceways, and numerous notification procedures warning faculty and students not to enter the building. It was not .open again until 12:00 noon, after another check of the building was made. But, . as Fitzgerald stated, \safety is of paramount im- portance to us.\ Fitzgerald continued with praise for the people in But- terfield at the time and their ability to react quickly and rationally. He said, \I'd like to thank everyone that was in Butterfield at the time for their cooperation and understanding throughout the whole thing. I'm sure it was a big in- convenience.\ By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Staff The Union College Student Forum met this past Monday, November 12. Although the full Formn was not in attendance, numerous issues were discussed. piscussion was opened w~th the announcement of another event co-sponsored by the Formn and Phi Beta Kappa. On Thursday, November 15, there will be a discussion entitled, \Will you be better off four years from now?\ Three professors from the Economics Department will lead the discussion: Professors Fried, Lewis, and Schaeffer. The event is to be held in the Dutch Hollow Pub at 7:30p.m. Junior Trustee Andrew George announced some of the initial developments in the planning of this year's Fresh- man binner. The dinner this year wi:ll also be held at Hale House-Old Chapel, but the date will be Saturday,. Jan. 19. Speeches this year are to be presented by President Morris, Harry Demgen of Alumni Affairs, and Forum President Steve Benson. President and Mrs. Morris and the Forum are to be the hosts of the event. This year, several changes have been added to the dinner. Following the dinner in Hale House, an ''Evening of Entertainment\ is to be held in Memorial Chapel. Several student cabaret-type acts are to be featured. Later that evening, a non-alcoholic dance will be held in Old Chapel. Charlie T. and the Grads are possibl~ performers at this occasion. Steve Benson, Forum President, brought up the continuing issue of the closing time at the Pub and Skeller. A· meeting of Benson, Roger Harris, Jan Grey, and others was recently held. Benson believed that nothing new was accomplished. Trustee Andrew George thought that \there is sufficient support to cause further pursuit of the issue.\ A Forum five member sub- committee was formed to further investigate the issue. Susan Brand then presented the section of the Forum by- laws. dealing with the com- mitteees of the Forum. The by- laws explain the purpose and member selection processes of these committees. Although the Independent Student· Coalition (ISC) guidelines were not included, a motion was made for ac- ceptance of the by-laws, which subsequently passed. The subsection of the by-laws dealing with the ISC should be ready for approval by next week: The final section of the by- laws, the section dealing with election procedures was also proposed again for acceptance, however with a provision added for absentee ballots. Presently, there are rio absentee ballots for campus-wide elections. The proposal, written by Andrew George provides for absentee ballots to be available to all resident students who will not be on campus the day of the election. Absentee ballots will be available the day after nomination petitions are due through to the day before the election. The absentee ballots will be obtained and returned to a member . of the Elections Committee. A motion was then made to accept the amended by- laws, which passed unanimously. With the passage of that motion, the Fonun by- laws are now complete. The focus of the mee~ing then turned to the committee reports. Vice President for Administration Sue Brand presented the Committee on Committees (CoC) report. The CoC had reviewed the con- stitution of the Union College Pro-Life Forum. The. purpose of the organization was partly ''to promote an awareness of the pro-life issue and stance.\ A motion was made to accept .the constitution, but without fW1- ding. The motion was passed, with one abstention. The CoC will also be meeting soon with the heads of activities who did not hand in their seven- Continued on page 4 Fitzgerald described the event anti what Security was doing about it, after the fact; he said it was \a certain childish prank, a very dangerous prank.\ Investigation underway However, there is an in- ':estigation being ~onducted to fmd out who made the phone call. It has been tentatively The leaves are gone! The snow is coming ... Such occurrences are rare at Union. According to Fitzgerald, the last \bomb scare\ was about three years ago. It is conforting to know that when they do happen, Security has an organized, effective way of handling the situation. ~ . ' : '*. ~ \ . .,. \ . ' ·,. Final Exam Schedule *-Page nine-* Playoffs *-Page twenty-* \' ro 00 .c u <li .E a. ttl Q > .J:l 0 +- 0 .c c.

CONCORDIENSIS: N(;J•emher 15, 1984 Human Relations- Hauser Forms Committee Ill c: _Q _Q 0 0:: Q) > Q) +- (/) >- _Q 0 +- 0 .s::. c. Dianne Winkler has recently been selected as Chairperson of the Human Relations Committee. By DAVE MARIN Staff Vice-President for Finance John Hauser's office recently announced the formation of a Human Relations Committee to establish a \more forma:! communication\ between the staff and the administration. Chairing this conunittee will be Assistant Affirmative Action Officer Diane Winkler and the other ;permanent member, appointed by Hauser, is Director of Personnel George Richards. The rest of the committee is to be made up of two members from each Gf fmir campus staff areas, though presently only five staff members have been selected. Yvonne Huxhold, Secretary of Modern Languages and ·alro President of the Union College Staff Association, is optimistic about the committee~ She ex- plained that the first two Research Paper Presented By CHIDSIE DICKSON Staff Biology professors George Butterstein and Margaret Schadler are the first scientists in. the world to undergo analysis of the plant chemical 6-MBOA ( 6-rnethoxyben zoaxzolinone) by using endcrinological techniques. In 1982, researchers at the University of Utah established tha 6-MBOA incl'\eases ovary production, but were unable to determine the reason. Experimentation with 6-MBOA in the main has been limited to physiological methods where ovaries are removed from laboratory animals, fed with 6- MBOA, and then analyzed as to the reaction. Butterstein and Schadler's innovations came in using the laboratory rat to \determine the site of action of this com- pound.\ Analysis of a rat's blood after being injected with 6-MBOA showed the expected increase in ovulation; however, there was no increase in the estrogen, the female hormone responsible for spurring ovary production. With this in mind, Butterstein and Schadler have theorized that the chemical must work through either the pituitary gland or through the brain. They made their findings known to colleges in other biological fields at a conference of the National Society of Reproduction in Laramie, Wyoming. Th<!ir brief was well received and dignified the researchers by being \chosen as one of the few papers of the 300 presented to be chosen for the press\ Butterstein said. Butterstein and Schadler are presently working with the aid of a Union faculty grant and hope te obtain more fin<lncial help for their costly experiment from the National Science Foundation. If they are able to continue without impediment, then it could mean more op- portunities for Union students to actually participate in the advancement of science. Throughout the duration of the project several students have worked closely in the pioneering project and three were actually accredited in the paper presented at Laramie. The continuation of Union's first scientific contribution in the field of biological reproduction depends on the support of both the • students and ad- ministration. Med School Tuition Up: Students G~ing in Debt CPS - A student graduating from medical school this year will probably already be some \' $26,400 in debt, a new study by the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) says. Based on its findings, the AALVIC warns that skyrocketing tuition, along with financial aid cutbacks, may soon keep all but the children of the rich from attending medical school. The concern over med student debts closely parallels college financial aid experts' fears that all students are falling dangerously far into debt to finance their college educations. Officials say the recent restructuring of federal financial aid programs has forced many students to rely on loans, rather than grants, to pay for college. And while the debt problem threatens all college students, medical students are becoming especially vulnerable, ac- cording to the AAMC study. Tuition has doubled or tripled at most medical schools in recent years, already locking out many middle and lower- class students, according to the study, which was conducted by a panel of 18 m~dical school deans. This year, the average medical school graduate left school with more than $26,400 in debts, the study shows, a 10.8 percent increase over last year. Over 30 percent of the new doctors, moreover, graduated $30,000 or more in debt, com- pared with only 25 percent last year. Over eight percent-one out of every 12-left school owing more than $50,000. \If this trend continues,\ the study says, ''many students may be denied the opportunity to study medicine. A medical education may become an opportunity restricted to the affluent.\ Only 12 percent of this year's med students graduated without debt, compared to 14 percent in 1983. Minority students par· ticularly are being locked out of the medical field by soaring tuitions and dwindling scholarship funds, AAMC of· ficials say. Since 197 4, the report points out, the number of minority . students attending medical schools has stalled at 8.3 per· cent of total enrollment. Many lower-income and minority students who would otherwise enter medical school are opting for less-costly business, chemistry,o and biology degrees that will bring them high-paying jobs without a huge debt obligation, the medical deans report. And cutbacks in federal student aid for med students promises to exacerbate the debt problem, says AAMC spokesman Robert Boerner. The main scholarship program for medical students, the National Health Services Corps (NHSC) awards, ''is being cut radically and vir- tually phased out by the Reagan administration,'' Boerner says. \There will be fewer than 200 (NHSC) awards annually now,\ he says, \compared to about 1200 four or five years ago when the program was at its peak.\ Even one of Ronald Reagan's personal physicians has rebuked the president for the cuts in aid to medical students. Programs such as the NHSC awards \have enabled people with little resources to reach their full potential,\ says Dr. James Giordano, one of the physicians Who operated on Reagan when he was shot three years ago. Including himself as one of the students who was helped by federal assistance programs, Gior4ano hopes Reagan \will not abandon the commitment that has meant so much to me and my family.\ meetings about staff benefits proved to be \extremely in- fennative'' and that her main concern is that the staff un- derstands the information and that they give feedback to the committee. . Though HliXhold feels it is too soon to say whether the ad- ministration is reaHy making an earnest effort, she remarked, ''I think the com- mittee has potential and really hope it will accomplish what it has set out to do.'' The committee was formed early this year after about a year of consideration by the administration according to Chairman Diane Winkler. She says that it was not formed as a specific response to the Staff Association and its demand for a similar committee in a report issued this sun:uner by its Concerns Committee. It is, however, very similar in its composition . to the committee requested !Jy the Staff Association. The purpose of the committee is to recommend l'esolutions to problems, and plan and carry out programs of recognition, such as honoring individuals of longstanding service to the campus community. The first !tern on the committee's agenda 1s staff benefits. According to Winkler, the agenda will be set by the committee as a whole. In discussing the chair- manship of the committee . Huxhold did say sne \would lik~ to see it as an elected office \ adding, \but I certainly ha~e nothing against Diane (Winkler)~! think she'll do a good job. Winkler said she believes that she was made chairman and a permanent member to maintain some continuity from year to year, though she does not know for sure the future method for chairman selection. TONIGHT Teach In On Central America By USOCA* 7:30p.m. • HU 117 SPEAKERS: • Jay Ekman, Pastor, New England Congregational presbyterian Church, Saratoga··\The Church and Sanctuary for Centr·al American Refugees.\ • Dr. St:Jsanne Jonas, Political Science Activist, ISMLEC and USOCA-·\Militarism in Central America.\ • Dr. Jim McClellan, Prof. of Philosophy of Education, SUNY, Albariy··\What a War i.n Central America Would· Mean to Union Students.\ STUDENTS: • Wi II contribute posters ARTISTS: • Will contribute posters Please Come & Discuss These Important Issues e U.S. Out of Central America Supporters: Arts Club, BLAS, Campus Ministry, Oxfam, UCAM, Women's Network. ) GRADUATE STUDIES IN BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH Basic Medical Science Department Active Research Programs Seeking Qualified Applicants Tuition and Stipend Support Available For Further Information Contact: Graduate Committee Department of Physiology Albany Medical College Albany, N .. Y. 12208 ( 518·445-5651) ( t .! c r ( i c ... c .1: c:

~e to ~arry ion, of the fir.st end a to set like a that a to now for ~I y d CONCOR/)1/:N!·jJS. Nm·l'mhcr 15, 198../ Pa~e 3 Five -Year Plan Enacted By .JOANNE McANDREWS Staff Hewlett-Packard 3000 Series 68 computer currently used for administrative purposes, and The Stanley H. Peschel the VAX 11-780 will still be used. Center for Computer Science Each of the four new VAX's and Information Systems is wiH be used for a specific currentlyatthe halfway point of purpose: one VAX 11-785 will be the Five-year Computer Plan. used as a general curricular Wayne E. Holt, director of machine; the other VAX 11-785 Computer Services, commented for statistics and for use by the that \the ,plan shews the Social Science department; one recognition by the ad- VAX 11-750 for computer-aided ministration that there was a instru-ction and word need for very careful planning processing; the other VAX 11- to minimize cost and derive the 750 for Computer Science most benefits\. faculty research and senior- The number of terminals level research. VAX is the available to general student use model of the computers; 11 the wasthe first topic addressed by series; and 785, 780, and 750 are the Five-Year Computer Plan. model numbers. Two and a half years ago, there The advantage of the VAX were forty terminals in use with computers over the Burroughs ten of the forty available for is that all computers will be tied student use as well as one dial- in by a communication system. up line. Presently the College The importance of this is that has 109 terminals available for there will be more central student use, as well as twenty computer devices, and an op- dial-up lines. portunity for growth with the ''No college, regardless of its size, can have the capability to do what everyone wants - it is more important to meet the needs.\ The terminals and their locations are as follows: Steinmetz-twenty·eight ter- minals, Steimetz Micro Lab- ten terminals, Steinmetz Graphics Lab-fourteen ter- minals, Butterfield Terminal Room-fourteen terminals, Humanities CHUG Lab-fifteen termin~ls, Schaffer Library- twelve terminals, the Computer Science lab-eight terminals, and the Steinmetz Express Room-. eight terminals. The next phase of the Five- year Plan is a most significant one. A cluster of Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) computers, made up of four independent but int- terconnected VAX computers is slated te replace the Burroughs computer, presently in use, at the end of fall term. The .: 0 .:x: ui \ \ >- \ ·o= > .., c ' iii .:;· LO~ co capability of accomodation. However, Holt declared, ''No college, regardless of its size, can have the capability to do what everyone wants-it is more important to meet the · needs.\ An open house -and dedication ceremony will take place in January during the third week of winter term, showing students and faculty the new equipment. Holt explained that the campus in general is becoming more computer literate-the demand for services is in- creasing, and the students and faculty want more consulting services and more computer software. The new faculty member·s are more computer oriented, and have higher ex- -e n -....._A ~ lt5U1 '16 kk ~ ~ The Union College Computer Network Gentds: Tardl1 ~I\ - \If' \111\ Gemini Gnmlln Vu 11/780 Science&. Ensinterlng Vax 11/150 Computer Scllence Reieanh Vall 11/185 Genet'Oil Currlculnm VIII 11/186 Stadslks &:. Dala Analysis \lax 11/150 CAI/CBE Reuarch UPJOD0/68 Administration/Network Print Statllln DS 90D6/IlL Terminal Nelwork Control pectations. Students coming from high schools with strong computet science programs also have greater expectations, therefore the cemputer is being integrated into more courses. Under the supervision of Jack Hill, director of Campus Operations, the Burroughs computer will be taken down from November 19\21. Con- struction in the Computer Center to prepare for the new VAX duster will take place the week of November 26th. The VAX cluster will be installed from December 3~28. · t ' •.'.\ g, __ ,,._ ; Director of Computer Services Wayne Holt discusses how the Five Year Plan for computer changes is in the process of being carried out. China Experts to Speak \By BRUCE REYNOLDS . managed to gain a facotry job; studying in the United States. When I saw the ternble and finally, as the Chinese ·This week, Liang Heng and wo,r~s, red characters on educational system came out of Judy Shapiro will visit the bnlhant yellow paper, every its deep freeze, he gained ad- Union campus, under the word engraved Itself on . my mission to college. sponsorship of IEF, the social heart; I would never believe There, in 1979, his story took a science departments, and the that. t~~ gr,ound was steady fateful turn, one which Women's Commission. On agat?. Ltang ~eng ';Vas separated him forever from Thursday, they will deliver a r~admg an accusatiOn agamst the \Cultural Revolution\ public lecture on their ex- h~s f~ther, posted on t~e walls of generation. Seeking help with perience and its relevance for h1s h1~h school. For hi~, ~t age an English composition, he met China's policy problems today. 12, ~hl~ marked the begmnm.g of . Judith Shapiro, a Princeton The lecture will be held at C~ma s Cultural Revolution. graduate who had come to 8:00 in Carnegie Hall, and a H1s mother w~S. ~lrea?y gone, Hunan Teacher's College to reception in Strauss Lounge will accu_se~ ?f nghtlst ten- teach for two years. Deeply follow. On Friday, the public is denclE'S m \1&57 and con- interested in China, Shapiro demn~~ to ref?rm through listened with sympathy, at first labor . Now his father, a to his prblems with English respected . reporter for the grammar, and then, as their Hunan Daily, had also come relationship grew closer, she under attack. listened while he poured out the For the next. two years 7 fr?m story of his experiences since 1_966 to 1968, L1a_n~ Heng s hfe, 1966. They fell in love; married lik~ those of mtlhons of other (with some difficulty), and Clu~~se students, was a saga of emigrated to the United States. P?lltl.cal battles, . group They co-authored a book p1lgr1mages t? Pekmg and about Uang's experience en- elsew~ere, f~m1ly tragedY_, and titled Son of the Revolution. occaswnal p1tched battle~ m the Liang also obtained backing for streets. In the 1970 s, he a new literary journal, called The Chinese Intellectual. The Reynold1· i1· an economin pn~{cssor at journal is written in Chinese Union. andpublishedinNewYork City. It is read avidly by many of the 10,000 young Chinese from the People's Republic who are This week, Liang Heng and Judy Shapiro will visit the Union campus. invited to a bag lunch in Strauss Lounge at 12:15, where Judy Shapiro will discuss the status of women in China, and the impact on them of the Chinese revolution. Attendance Encouraged Liang and Shapiro will also visit the \China\ class in Humanities 117 on Friday at 9:30, for a question-and-answer session. The public is welcome to attend. Hugh Allen Wilson, professor of music at Union College, will present an organ concert, Saturday, Nov. 17, in Memorial Chapel with Eleanor Farnum on the harp. The program will begin at 8 p.m. and is free and open to the public. The concert will include works by Bach, Soler, and Dupre, and is the first of a series of organ recitals by Wilson. For further information, contact the Union College Arts Department at 370-6201. Since 1877 Serving the Union Community for 107 years ~ttot.o 11v ,, ~I ,, ~~ ~.~~1.. )If ' ' ~oncor ~t~~ ultn5t5 'c~lT~~ fJIIICTI-D 1 . The construction of union's new roadway is in full swing, in spite of the winter cold. You've- been reading it in Concordy \' c .0 .0 0 c.:: Q; > Q; +- </) >- .0 0 .,_ 0 .r::. 0.

i I J-- ....................... __ ~.~-- ...... ____ -·----· By MARCY RU.RSTINER Although corporate theft is not a new problem for large corporations, the problem of espionage and other sc.curity breaches has grown m tht- recent p!!st. Joseph Rosetti, the Director of Security at IBM world headquarters in Armonk, NY, spoke in Bailey Hall last Thursday in a colloquium sponsored by the Institute of Administration and Management. The problem with security is the \most costly single expense item\ IBlv1 has, according to Rosetti. ThB problem, he ex- plainecL stems frorr; the d.if- feri..n;..; com:eoi.s of crime m t)cnple's rnind~ .. \J.arl\' do not ser~ \'. £·;ILc· :_;·c]iaJ~ thci, a;, ·.\-r<H1~1 .. 1-b~ :ri\.liYhiiF< \.,,;fl~; t'D!H1Pils :-,uch ~lH ,::c: \;;; ~c·urHJAllh· ;_:~·(·L-.:;.~.!.ii .. , ·.n1< ·•· ... i.hiJ:-:. i i,e cu~~~i,:~; .· ;r.\ 1 ·; r:! ;i_:, ,_:J- .J1t ... ch>c·lsH.;!L ·n ··) ~.:.~ ;1;:~\T~ • .-1 ~)rH':.~ ~·,, tl\ ... \···.~ ~;1::1 ~· i~~: r1n ri.~;~~.·· ; ;: (, . i ' I!\>' ol!tdll ; L;,.:·li.~) i:J rl Cui'~ :-;··r:n lui: an· <.~s costly tO tht ·\.J!:rnn\· ;b i.her' of confldenU<Jl ;:::o.-:r:::!i:,; .. :~i:Iny employee, ~): .. :;x~'\\1 1 .. ~1at ··ta!~ln~: i;·) not '·.;~~'~l ~~:::~;\ r~:vcn ~~- [~r. emplnye(.· i.: ~··ut.c~ .. ,L. rnn:;i .. , H~ ~1~;; o1l 1 \YiJi i;~n\:·: th·: S('cunt \ bn;acht~s ,,;\ , 1 .• h -' i n : c_l r p r ( 1 ·:. : ~ t 1 uri o ;~ 1 i H: Ci\flf'Cr;;c {i~ StcaJ:ng deoPnd:\~ ui} 1:-1<· .\ :'J?!J~;;·~.\\ [i;.tC'i:~;rt~Uli!.i tind .'J'tli :;;;l_.P 1 .lC'rh.'l \\''hC;i :<U!'\\(\~\:t_i c;rl!rtf;_ i f1:::. ~~~1t·~~ :t~i\\t' :<}-JOf)li1tc\ 1 ~~:.il di ;!:_!:. :H.·,;·t·\'!; th;cf. i It:~::·: h~.\'J. ·v\~f;;(~ifi. ;, i_~illllf\~!1 1y ~:)IJ<.' (\Jl(·~Ci \)~-'(,\\.(·;_;lll tll '>,til( l; I il~~'1 (_' 1:: ;:· .. · certainty that action will be taken. At IBM, for example, an employee found guilty of theft is automatically fired. Unfortunatelv, Rosetti remarked. the threat of job loss is not a very strong deterrent. It is, however, the only deterrent. The criminal justice system in this country is not concerned with most corporate crimes because of the backlog of more :;CfhJU~ crirne~ tl1at i.h~.: court.~ cH1·J };~.>lice ruu;..;t handi:~·· .. ·1 hl· '/.\C;rld 1ouks U!JDH U~1~~ J;(tc·n .. ·L~U:. rha:: v~:: do.'' iL.: ! >ti•. :;i dJi;:; difiic~·uit :.;auutiun · hiJ.::i t'\·vh·ed ~t raLhe:r Wl]UJL sys~em calied Lhe private s~cunty system,\' usmg firings ancl demotions as thr only mean~ o£ puni:;hment. Rosetti estm1ated that IB!\~ ~nend.'i $100-200 billion annually .Hi .~ecurit.y syslem;:; ancl sc>eu:·ll v theiL In mos! whic<' collar c~nme.s ven· few oeoolt~ are prosecuted. in ~a::.es of ban:: unbcalement. for examplv. ttw ~.\ erU,t2,t· ~nnoun: ;o)t o.Jtn. t-:) :<W ,flOO \ et on)\' one out 01 four· of : ::l':\~' ca~e\ is clisCQ\'cre·:·;. Thns:· ~~1.di\ idual:) \';hu art: c:rugi\lt tn:~\· :·e,.,:i·.,-,. ~r,mc· tnl· u· fit·na)t:. ;:Lr' run·l:. \'·ill ;1;1~·one :!u to jaii 'Jn ih,··.ldH·; !1~nE:, Hl thP c~-ts~.· ui liy IV!i.itTrtELi.S:rt:L'' Si~::·\· i.~l< .Sencem'~\ Profess;;: .ia.:J: Lnhol· ,,,· Lnion·:-. Psvcholor.\' deoartment flt· t<>n.ded Hw ·international Umon 0i ~svchologtc2; Sdence 1r AcaouiL\o. MeX!c0. Out of th{' hundreds of papers submitted, Lmwn's paoer entitled \1-eadet Ethmcit ~ -and Group Com- positior\ was chosen t0 b•: Dn·St'11!r•l dunn~· t\w. fl\P d<:r,· prouuetlvlt> d!l~j _;nh sattsfacuon. Hts re.se\!r w<.:.; Liont• 111 a l<:~ boratorv seHmg criminals are caught and prosecuted. \The problem is extremely serious and getting wo:rse,\ he said. . In a study conducted in New York state, it was found that if \workplace\ crime were reduced significantly in the area of small appliances, the price of small appliances could be :reduced by twenty-seven percent without decreasing profits for the corporation. Although the problem ap- pears impossible to stop, it is still vitally important to pursue the problem of intellectual stealing. \Inventors truly get turned on more by peer recogmtion-the satisfaction of h:H·ing something uut before somcon~ cis~:. E i.lil L'ngineer' s Je:sign i.s cvp~t:d LH!ll Lhc idea.;;, art: then u~:cd tc de~ign ~n ~v !.iil bi!tter pn.th.!I.:L. tlw rc:>~arch and time spi.:llt \'.'lii appear wasted. L~Iilpluyec~\ th,·n qu(~stiOLI ,livhy ll> .. ~~~ ~JtJLlcr v. drkin~.: for their p~'r'tiL'Ula;· r •.HlHJdm· ll3 \i ;1a:.; ~ll; aggre::,::,lvc IJuiicy tvv::..tr~,, corporate cnmt;,., kosetll claimed. Ali depan- menls must detenn'ine what intellectual asset:; the,· have and then design a security plan to protect those assets. ~lost protection measw·es are unJert3l:cn not on! v ior protl'tUon itself. but rather w prove m court atterward.s tiJa< u,,. company iia:-- take11 preca :1t1unan sr eps tl; proteci. it; .. , ~P(Tt·i ·, • 1.!. 1!\:,!. fur t'X<lHl[)\t.;. a)[ •:mpio~ vc.~ fllu.-;l :>irr,n d1:-;cio;:,urc ~t;..; J\·t~n h·nL-. drHr td ... L.ii_~r~:.u t:.~:~ 1_ t·o;np~H~~ . TiH 1 :--~~· .:.tr;_· ~·onctnc·te(i J(t nrdt~r· i.O· pn}'.·c iai:(~r th:.l\. : nndlhi~·,; icmn p:::c;:· l mu~.': tU \he- hr·l nf tin!r·· left ir; \:h(· ,,._,,_.;; ~t:ii<Jrts on tim(. i'lans ar•:: i\u.mero11s fmanec~ change,; or i.\~!TlL tht' offieP wili no: Of'h\'n o·:.:lL:' :n;;.:•.- ~~,,- ,·rwJrc<:ment. 11f 1,1;!-:_lj(.';; accnun[ were until ne··:l u·nn. f·iov;('\'l\t. ,t;·i;·~~.·• rJi•i.•'.• in lu.mll<· rii~;cuss•:•i by l.hc: Fmancc sPvend inr11ro memlF~r~ ••::::·:: c.;1~·1 ;•:(·, ;nh·: ~~ omrniliec. tndudinl' the as!;l·d li• lnp!; \ni\ U:::' \ ;( .· 1· _:;Hi•·n~ !ri· Fmarwc rt'i.Urn ill the· SL500 of acouisition of supplle:o: fnr il':~ h···L••: L:• , .. ~ pr(•scnted t.h1 ;-.chcm•f'tadv i;<J7eUt· mone1 of!{ce .; i.r. a phonl'. rk:.;l\~. cY•.' .. 'iili•l:·'•,: (!J!JllJ\l:iet· n·pon.. ,'.J '.'>tlich W<b accidPntall~· place;J Uis'ih·. ShF:ri \iidorh:Ct i L·,~l1· ;a~:,~_. :·:·lr·~,-·: ir:~~~ dtt' V·in:·nH_'( tnto la,s\ year·\ bud_g::_·L. The bintq~h~ up ·r hP nnl iorJ o~ ,. HiJ1J:Ji1_T~:·~~ ~t~;·pril\·~·t; ill-,' FtH::nlr:(~ ( on1n1i1te~-· i:1 Blsn dis~rH.n~tin~~ eople~. f1f,~h.~ s\hf'~:'t IJ:i·~~chir;· i.-LUtd:-. reqn~:.~.s!:- ;r1Hn nresend\· di~.:,ens:dru~ [I rossjbh: .'dni;.: rn:~i(~t\· ·t•. H1.1~ ,-.a~nrci:-1~ .~ :;:\ ~ r;_ .. ~· (~~~.~:.:. \t·h~e;·i v.dl !Ji ;.~·;L-~in~~ (~;· ihe Sllhh.·r;~, :'\r·thri,ie,--. i\nnrf.\:~~-1:. /~~1.rl!.· •:·' ~.nt <\f{ur··;~ h! i:·~Lii>i Ch[q,_: tt·i !;~~:_:. :\ f}ropo:~cd. i:< ciu(: ne:< f\!..!J~. :;r:\,·:fd snit~:. ''(\•;·;:\~\!·.''\ \'.iK h<J···· :'uid \':r·~i: ·~~-nr;tr)··;imatL·h· '),f,fi\1.1,Wl0 ,:J''''''~; n:._: ,_~,: S\v\;' Cull< Hc·nson !hen t,,·nu,s;hl uo til•· r·opl~:;.~ will llP pn0ten •lp tr1 iL· , ~~~ i_. ~ ~ __ .:,·:!.: ___ ':' ~2!.~-~- .:·· d lu :.!.: ___ J~~f...Y..L.!J}~- .r · w ~tr..!..L~>fi ~e J!!_!_. \~.·.:.· .. · ... ~ ... ~ \ 1 c. ~! i st r. i b. ,': ; .. d: :l!!.l!Yc~ J'~i~-~.:.- ___ \~ ..,-~· ,::J· .. : .•. :· ... g]·.g\:,:.,. Al, .II II \l lLfi!rfizu~rr:~\) -~--- :t~ • _,_,_ ..c.-:.l.~J~-·L:.L'c_/ .. ,[3.~L 'f i I; \ o ~ · .,,. · .v, •·, · · '- ~ !t. I ·7;:~,!~ l()Z llfJ~[§i cq!fl'~JO T/fj JR; \\~~~~~~i)~.~~.ll.· ,!,._ .I LJ i.!tA.:Y .. J £]; ,..... J ll .. --------H .. .,;:.:;,_, _____ _ ....... _,_________________ v [ _, .. .,.- .. __ ,._ ---~-~ ~ wa:o abtt w confroi and manipulnir \'nriahtr:' R:J;. determn~·.\ th: :·r~us·, I\ relatwn:;hip.· .. · A vanety of grour,;-,,,; peopi ~· werr- brou~ht mt, Lliflercn situations to work on a tasL. ;;nd the interaction::- wer~ studit':' and then evaluated Professor Lipton has beer• with linion';:; Psvrtl<Jiu~'\ Department for five years. hi.; mterest in the Hispanic cuiwr · starte<.i <.li thl· Umvt·rsit' ,,; C:aiif<,rni<• a: HiversHit-. wlH'': i};' ~\('\t> .\'ii..L.h.i\UH iu( {u.> lJI;. i.lpluir :-.a\.-, !tlVer::.iu'' ha:: ,, \ lT. 1argr· l:H:-.u<HHL' pooum: 1,,;; and iJt•cau:.~; of llll:. llle >!1\C!UU:'.' · program h;d <1 wl of research Wlth Hispanic enh)basi .\ Lipton fPeL~ !ho.l ;,i;: n:·t'S'-'';~ l~ P .s P ~i r c h \•; ~J , , qat u ~·:, 1 pLl~re;:;sion of dl(' r~:st·(~.rc!; L~--~ l\;1> been t\ondtLt ir.,: ''': f l:...,nanit':- for th~~ id~i. t\~,~;~~;. vea.rs. Ht> believes the .-;ubi·.c': Wd:> not theoretical in1l r·<.~:~ ~n' applied rea! world relevance:. \With Affirmatl\'E' Ac'i:ioe~ orogrcuns, ther-e are morr nPd more Hispames goin< intr• bu:ilnl'.': ... l.inton nxplrlll!~, ·-Tnert• lifl' vt\r:· fpv P¥n~P .. ~c~~! ...;('iPnti;:(· ·\\t1HilP> n:: rf1l~ ·,~,~.I( v·:~~jct \·(·llr.\ !r\' :...;;.IHii:•·. h·!·\· lwt•n llOW'. anri ;:-i, n! 1 ht'rn h.'''.·,, <..iP:1:f \\'!ti~ i·)[ae;.:~ ;~· :.1· ~·~c~;· !\:.' fl;· on~~ ropu~:,. : Y'j\ ·~~. , .·:~ • ' . ' •• ' ' • ! • ~ ' 1!,,· t'n·~· _...;~~~:;. 1 .. ·----~ .... -.........,.-~-----·-·--·~·------·--· . l Finance Committee IVJieetim1g #7 N·~vember 11~ 1984 Present: Brian Laux {Chairman), Doug Landon, Steve Lipsky, Alex Modica, JaniceGro$sman, Chris Siler, Ira Blaufarb. Guests: Crew Club, Mary Phillips 1. Crew Club is going to sell raffles for $1.00 apiece. Stroh's is going to donate the prizes. Wes Harris and Brandon Cassidy will be running the raffle. They hope to raise about $500. November 16 is set as the drawing date. Doug made a motion which was seconded \to accept Crew Club's proposal for a raffle fundraiser which will be eligible for matching funds.\ The motion was passed with a vote of 6 in favor, 0 opposed. 2. The Cheerleaders have requested matching funds for buttons which have already been sold. Brian will find out how much of what they raised is profit and report back next week. 3. Problems with WRUC: A. WRUC is budgeted to bring in $1500 from the Schenectady Gazette. This money was paid in June and became part of the carryover figure rather than being incorporated into their current budget. The FC therefore owes them more money. Alex made a motion \to switch $1500 from the contingency fund to WRUC under line item 8550. The motion was passed with a vote of 6 in favor, 0 opposed. This leaves us with $3500 in contingency. B. A plane ticket to return from the Colby game was lost. Another $107 had to be paid for replacement ticket. This money should be returned from airlines eventually-if not. it will come out of the Schenectady Gazette money. C. An ad in a sports program that cost $425 should h<n'e been paid out of last year's budget. $182.31 returned fro:-n last year·.s phone expense will defray some of the r-ost. Doug made a matior. '\any bills no!. paid by .Junr ::r.. 198! 1vill be paid ouf. 0f Uw cmrcnt year';.; budget for the rt-spective activity.\ Tbe motiOn was n3ssed with a •:otr of r; in f;,,:or anr! n 31!;•m;>t. Tht·'·,·!w· ~.\'l\UC ;,.ill h;we to covc>r thP rr'st n: th(' ,. •;;t. · D. Chris madt' ~~ mo[iflr, for !inc• itc·n: ch<m!;l's Hl \\'JUiC\s bud~et, that \SIB2 be (raJ:sr~'rT:cd f:·om lirw it('l'• Ill.:) Lu i:•rc· 'tt·m 8518: $2/'t) fro:nl!ne it.':'m R:i:i!l t0 3.iJf;. $Hl <rnp: lin·· ii:•r:1 H'i:1o !.11 8!1!4 and SZOO fro'l' lirH· iil'Dl ·R'i): 1 In Hl;:~ ... Ti: · :i ''''ir•d \'.'~l: passed with a \'OLP nffi in f;n·t•r .:1r.cl (' nppu~ '('. ·l. .Social Conunitiee 1,- apnh·in~ for matJ·i•in·' fund:-; h· .• rr;u 1, sale fundraiser they are hopin£; u m<llw ;, s;iun nrolll .,l '·· Ir ., made a motion \to allocate !Hatching funds lu SoclJl ( 'ur;JWJI.:ee according to profits from mug saies.\ Tlw moli6n was p;<ssPd with a vote of 6 in favor and 0 oppose• d. 5. BLAS incurred food S(lrvice bills amounting tu :04!10. They only have $190 to cover this line ilem. JamL\e made <:1 motion ··to transfer $300 from line item 8550 lo 8546 to cm·er f noli t\XJWllM~:..; fnr RL:\S flPlc·t!~_p·~.: \'The rHnU\:;, ,~:::~\' pa:<\)1...'d v.·i;_h ·; '.\til!' o:~ \: !Ii. fa\'rir and 0 opn<fscr1. r;. Hri<111 dr;,:\., up finarwi;1i :->tatc·mcnlc. :,,,. ;wil'.ILH:~: flil!~··l in prc·viou:\~ n1ir111iPS. The,\· h:r,'(\ bet·;; ~j-,_;~n i, FC t'• ·p.< tn p::s.< 1.)1 i;; thPir :lcll\'il:e: .. ~- Br:a:: \-:ill COillL' dp v:ith ;; .~;)~_'('lfi~,_· prnp<;:-';1; :tT !·:~~:'l:ilt~ :;:~ · .C:lud('ni Arliviuc:..; ft'L' and fH'(':>ent 1 i. at th~ !H.'Xt! \ · :•\;'( ·t.:;_, . R. IJou!..: iiJade ~i l:lPtion iha' \S[:\ Clul> lrans:~_~;- ~·ti~J r; .. r~n; .1!1!.\ it c·rn :~-1: ~! 1 i 1 f R:J u; :! nJ .::} :J f r, nu ii r w ; t c:.: · 05~~ i '·' ~: ; ~~~:. ,, 'r! h' ux 1 1\t;) ~ 1 ~,~::1~- p~t..;st'd v~ I! h d ·:.}i'· of.) 1t; ;·:.~\·,,:· <.tih1 1 vppo.-..:\·,! 'l. T iJC llH'L' U r. e1 1,r as adJourned a! 1; : 2:J p. r t ~. \--·-·-·----~

.\ ' \ \ -c i . --· ; ,, .._·;_ ... _._,._. ----------------------.i By MITCHELL S'lfEll'J §~a.H Last September, Professor Jark Lipton of Union':; Psychology department at- tended th€' International Union of Psychological Science in Acapulco, Mexico. Out of the hundreds of papers submitted. i .ipton 's paper entitled \Leader Ethnicity and Group Com- oosition''. was chosen to b\ oresf.>nted durin;; this five day ;.,.n.fprc~r;:('P ,,.f ov~r rh·rer\ l i·:il\l;1:d·i 1 ; ~J:-:yr·r~nlo·~ls·· ... fr,~;:.·. ~ r ... )un< th·· \\'CrL~ l .intr·n···· p<:ip•.>r s•.nck:c~ hm•. t h· ' rr·Psc.·rw\ '•f Hispanic iP(HiPr~ Rr1 th~~ \·urkplHCP rff-et_·~~ productivity and jOb satiSfaction. His rese3r.:ta w&s uone in a laboratory settmg ... ; Corporate Problems Told By MARCY BURSTINER Although corporate theft is not a new problem for large corporations, the problem of espionage and other se:curity breaches has grown in tht:> recent p3.st. Joseph Rosetti, the Director of Security at IBM world headquarters in Armonk, NY, spoke in Bailey Hall last Thursday in a colloquium sponsored by the Institute of Administration and fVlanagement. The problem with security is the \most costly single expense item\ IBM has, according to Rosetti. The problem, he ex- plained, stems from the dif- fermg concepts of crime in people· s minds. Many do not see wh1te collar theft. as v.Tong. The JnJividu;;l who commii.s such an :1;_, \m;.u~e~ ;; si.mple econouuc Je<:i:·;ioi •. · ;;.nd w._;;gl~;, the co::.ls ;:r;d u''nCriL:i uf this decision. · · :~)l uf us have a pnce ijr\n·iJeJ UH:r;: is no rish~'~ l ~·l:.clx. d<dmed . .Evidendv. .-:,::::1· ~~~·,,ph· fe:>r ri.sk tllotT than 'i j fl.; ._~Jndll trH.;i.·L~ us a cor· . pcr;.J\.io;; are as costly lo the ~·oJnpc.m;· a~ theft of confidential infm;mai.ion. Many employees b<!iievc that \taking i:;; not stcalinr:\'. Even if an employee <.': hilm:.sl, most, Jf not all, will ;guon.: the .secunt y breache:c; of ~c1:ov~· ernpltJyec~-i. ''h\ interpretation of the concept of stealing depends on -me·,., ndtu.rai backgrow1d and 'Sl:ot it ;}~:iH•f: Most hign 'ciwol student.-> when sun·eyed adn:il tiwt they have shoplifted ~)l,: b n 't believe thc;t the_\· havv do:k somettmg \\Ton~. J;, order t(l cvntrol tilt !H·onlem. a comp<my must enact :1 ~~:·\ihrUn) dl \V~1H..:l! ln~n.: t:~~ a certainty that action Will be taken. At IBM, for example, an employee found guilty of theft is automatically fired. Unfortunately, Rosetti remarked, the threat of job loss is not a very strong deterrent. It is, however, the only deterrent. The criminal justice system in this country is not concerned with most corporate crimes because of the backlog of more ~;erious crimes that the courts and police must handle. \'The world looks upon this drfferentl,\\ than we do,\ he com.xnentcd. Ou:. of this diffil:ull situaliuu ··has evolved a rather unjust system called the private security system,\ using firings and demotions as the only means of punishment. Rosetti estimated that IBIVJ. spends $100-200 billion annually on security systems and securitv theft. In most white coliar crimes very few people are prosecuted. In cases of bank embezzlemeni. for examol(;:, the averagv amount stoien, i~.; $30.000 yet only one out of four of these cases is discovered. Those individuals who are caught may recei·;r: some typ~ of pt:nait:y but rarely will anyone go to jail. On the other hand. m the case of bank robbery. thret' out of four criminals a.re caught and prosecuted. \The preblern is extremely serious and getting worse,\ he said. . In a study conducted in New York state, it was found that if \workplace\ crime were reduced significantly in the area of small applianc;es, the price of small appliances could be reduced by twenty·seven percent without decreasing profits for the corporation. Although the problem ap- pears impossible to stop, it is still vitally important to pursue the problem of intellectual · stealing. ··Inventors truly get turned on more by peer recognition-the satisfaction of having something out before someone else ... H an engineer's design is copied and the 1deas are then used to design an even better product. the research and time spent will appear wasted. Employee:o; then question why they bother working for their p<:~rttcular company. IB:\1 has an aggressive policy towards corporate crimes. Rosetti claimed. All depan- ments must determ~ne what intellectual assets they have and then design a security plan to protect those assets. Most protection measures are undertaken not onlv for protection itself. but rather to prove in court afterwards that the company has tal{en precautionary steps to protect it~ ~ecret.:o At IBi\L for example, all employee:> must sign disclosure agn·ements anti UJJdergo exit- , inl<T\ iew::o before leaving the company. These are conducted in order w prove later that mcasun's Wl'rc talz,:;,. Cmninue1l from page l mugs. to the lack of time left in th1~ Wd~t,. reuorts on lime. Pians are l\iumerous finance changes of tern1, the office will not open IYcmg nia<ie for enforcement of WHUC's account were until next term. However. ;; stricter roiwy to handle discussed by the Finance severai forum members V.re're 1nact!'l:e dut;s. Committee, including the asl\ed to look in!·o thr \';ce P <:sident for F'inanre return of the $1,500 of acquisition of supplies for ihl' H r1an LH•x oresented t.he Schenectady Gazette mone:: office i i.e. a phone, desi1:s, etc.' l' i11:mcu C,l:mnlttee report. M which was accidentally placecJ Lastlv. Shari Midoneck ltY:lr l<.1.~l weellng, the Financl· into last year's budget. ThP brought up the notion of t 'o::•mittC'<- approved t k Ftnane~;; Committee is also rlistributin~ copies of the schoN maJr·hii,~. fumb reqtwsl:i rrorn presently discussing a possible ~lrrw nmier H~_ lhi::: Saturd8y'!', k:(' Creu c:ub. whtcll w1ll b•: raising of th~ Student Activities footha!l gmnP in an effort to h;;i.lm~, ;; raffle; tlh: FN•. t\ proposal ts dut• nex[ raise• schooi spirit. c.•;;,•,·rle~Hk:r.~, whu hav,: S<Jld we('f: Anproximately 2.1l!Hl·3,000 tJUU•l!i;-,: ;wd H1-· ~ocicd Con\· Benson then brought up Uw copies wH! he printeM up to be i!illi•'v, v. h' 1nll be scilirl~c--_issue of the For~ office. Due distributed i'lt the game. ~--------·-- H!JJJPj[JJJJ ~· r~------1 l_ ____ __ 7[hOJrraksgfiwiiflf1~- _ ·- ]L.-~ was able ~o control and manipulate variables and determine !:hl' cause oi' relatiom>hips'' .· A variety of groupsof people were brought into ltifferent situations to work on a task. and the interactions were studied and then evaluated. Professor Lipton has lreen with Union';; Psychuiog\ Department for five years. H1s interest in the Hispanic culturE' started at the UniversiLy of California at Riverside. wher,· lle v. d..~ 3LUUV!il~ tU! Ill;, do;·- tvraU~ i,Ipwu ;:,ay.;,. · · htvenm.ie i1at! c~ ver\ !arge Htspan1c popula\..HFi and becaus~ uf thls the ~radut~t\~ program had a lot of research with Hispanic emphasis\. Lipton feels that his present research wa~; A natura! progression of the research he has been conducting o;, Hispanic!'. for the last 'eight vears. Ht> believes the subject was not theoretical but has an applied real world relevance. \With Affirmative Aetion programs, ther..e are more ;;md more Hispanics going into business\ Lipton explains, \There are very few empirical sr·tt•mifw stud1e:-: (In trll' son n' e: l·eet. \i~c•ry rr-w st ucllP<> hc!v•· ueen done. antJ allot thPm hRVf' Oe<ilt Wl! h biaC'K.'i il:< I i I h~r·r,o ttlt' on(\ Pttlfll;' _,;ronr' l hh 1,; tfll' fu·si stutl.' t•; .':n Hl'''' Hispanic leadershri, \ ··--·~--- Finance Commititee IVJeetirmg l+7 NQvember Jll, 19841 Present: Brian Laux {Chairman), Doug Landon, Steve Lipsky, Alex Modica, Janice Gre~srnan, Chris Siler, Ira Blaufarb. Guests: Crew Club, Mary Phillips 1. Crew Club is going to sell raffles for $1.00. apiece. Stroh's is going to donate the prizes. Wes Harris and Brandon Cassidy will be running the raffle. They hope to raise about $500. November 16 is set as the drawing date. Doug made a motion which was seconded ''to accept Crew Club's proposal for a raffle fundraiser which will be eligible for matching funds.\ The motion was passed with a vote of 6 in favor, 0 opposed. 2. The Cheerleaders have reqll:ested matching funds for buttons which have already been sold. Brian will find out how much of what they raised is profit and report back next week. 3. Problems with WRUC: A. WRUC is budgeted to bring in $1500 from the Schenectady Gazette. This money was paid in June and became part of the carryover figure rather than .being incorporated into their current budget. The FC therefore owes them more money. Alex made a motion \to switch $1500 from the contingency fund to WRUC under line item 8550. The motion was passed with a vote of 6 in favor, 0 opposed. This leaves us with $3500 in contingency. B. A plane ticket to return from the Colby game was lost. Another $107 had to be paid' for replacement ticket. This money should be returned from airlines eventually--if not, it will come out of the Schenectady Gazette money. . C. An ad in a sports program that cost $425 should have been paid out of last year's budget. $182.31 retumed from last year's phone expense will defray some of the cost. Doug made a motion \any bills not paid by June :~o. 1984 will be paid out of the current year's budget for the respective activity.'\ The motion was passed with a vote of 6 in favor and 0 against Therefore WRUC will have to cover the rest of the cos!. D. Chris made a motion for line item changes in WRUC's budget, that \$182 be transferred from line item 7000 to line item 85Hl, $276 from line item 8550 to 8518, $18 from line item 8550 to 8514 and $200 from line item 1lG12 to 84.12.\ The motion v:as passed with a vote of 6 in favor and 0 opposed 4. Soria! Committee is applying for matching funds for<.~ nJUg sale fundraiser they are hoping to make a $500 profit otL Ir<..~ made a motion \to allocate matching funds to Social Committee according to profits from mug sales.\ The motion was passed with a vote of 6 in favor and 0 opposed. 5. BLAS incurred food service bills amounting to $490. They only have $190 to cover this line item. Janice made a motion \to transfer $300 from line item 8550 to 8546 to cover food e};penses for BLAS fundi on:>.\ The motion wa;; passed with ;,.: \'Ote of G in favor and 0 opoosed. G. Brian drdw up financi<~l statements ·ioi' ad!vtties noted in previous minutes. They have been g,iven to FC r::ps. to pass on to . their activitie::;. 7. Brian will come up with a specific Jmlposal i'ur rahill,t; tht• Student Activilies fee and present it at the next IC meeting. 8. Doug made a motion that \SEA Club transfer $60 trom line item :3439 to 85411 ;md $15 from hnf' iterr.ll52~ to lH9!!.\ 'fhe motwn was passed with a \·otr~ of .i in favor and 1 oppose,!. C!, The meeting was adjourned at6:25 p.m. ~~ \:~ .... ~ ~J. ,;

' :;i jt·ci' •,\ \..•.l . i ()\ ar,,J is w n :-; r. .,. i ~~ I i :~ I I l I ! i l I ~ CONCOROIENS/.\~ Nm·ember 15. 1984 Page 5 Humor. •. Sk. c·I ~ '' · tp ·. asses .. By MIKE RINALDI Staff FEATURES A new plan for scheduling of classes for the coming term was brought up earlier this week. Under the new system, students would attend classes only on those days of the -week begin- ning with \S\, and not at times when students are either sleeping, or getting drunk in the SkeHer or Pub. Classes would start and end at unusual times, like 8:19 a.m. or 9:52 a.m., which would be posted outside each professor's office on a day- to·day basis. Each class would take place .fot as long as the instructor is willing to speak, which allows for moFe ·to be taught on days of .peak at- tendance. Dean Daniels is in favor of the idea and was ·quoted as saying, ''This new plan'will help students keep on their toes, as they will no longer be able to plan to skip classes more than a day in advance.\ with an intere:;;t in holding a class, there will be a mandatory meeting to decide when the class will meet. If no time can be agreed upon, students can drop the course and enter into a new one. This plan was devised so that students can have variety and not get bored by having the same class for ten weeks. The idea .of fewer class meetings during the Spring appealed to President Morris, who was quoted as saying, \The new· schedule wHI give students the opportunity for life, liberty, and the pursuit of the perfect tan.\ This year's apple harvest was pleR.tiful as seen here a.tFocas.tle Farms. The current schedule has been widely criticized on campus for its coherence, consistency, and problem- solving nature. Students now do not have the opportunity to worry about when their class meets, if it meets at an, and if they're still in it. Without these things to worry about, . it is argued, students have too much time to study, relax, go to movies, and eat dinner. If this plan is not approved, there is still a chance that one of the other scheduling ideas with as much credibility as this one is liable to be accepted. Dean Mammola is also in favor of \snnw routes\ between each building, so that students will be able to trudge through the snow to.classes like he had to when he was a kid. · TheW onders of Vitamins If the new plan passes with a ma.fority vote by the students on Monday it will go to the faculty for approval. If it does not pass in the student vote, it will be sent to the faculty for approval. If it is implemented it will undergo more alterations during the Spring term. Classes would then be held only when students chose to have them. When a majority of the students in a class contact the instructor 40Days Til Christmas By SHERRY WEITZEN Staff As I promised in my last column, I am continuing my brief overview of the subject of taking vitamin supplements with a look at Vitamin C and the B vitamins. Although, as I stated last time, I don't believe that supplements really dG much for a person's health or prevent .ailmentS';- I have more regard for the B vitamins. Vitamin B is water soluble and therefore cannot be stored for long in the body, and cannot, in excess, cause damage like the fat soluble vitamins. (\The Damage of Vitamin Sup- plements,\ Current Health 2). There are eleven B vitamins (Foley, Prevention) and they are active in food oxidation and energy producing functions of the body. The functions of each B vitamin is interconnected . Your talent for math · could get you onto JEtna's fast track With your numbers know-how, you ha~e a lot of options. You could earn your daily bread in a think-tank. Program . computers. Or maybe grad school's on yow· mind. Consider another option. J.oin our Actuarial Stu~ent Program. The experi- ence, ~xpert1se and exposure you'll get may slip you onto the fast track to advancement at fEtna. (It's happened to people who began with skills much like yotJr own!) If you can use your mathematical apti- tude to creatively solve complex prob- lems (you don't have to be a math major) a~d yearn for something big, you just m1ght have undiscovered corner-office potential. Find out more at a reception to be held for ~hose of you who want to explore your options. Underclassmen are welcome. Date: Tuesday, November 27 Place: Carnegie Hall, Banquet Room Time: 7:00 p.m. An equal opportunity/affirmative action emp/t)yer. with the others, and a deficiency in one may inhibit the others from functioning efficiently. (\Vitamins and Minerals: The Inside Story,\ Current Health 2). Vitamin Bl, also known as thiamin, is active in respiration. It can be found in such foods as lean meats, poultry, egg yolks, fish, whole grains, peanuts, and beans. (\Vitamins ·and Minerals: The Inside Story,\ Current Health 2). Thiamin is found in a wide variety of foods but is easily lost due to cooking. (Collier's Encyclopedia). A deficiency in vitamin Bl is common in alcoholics. (B. Norman, Ladies Home Jour- nal). Symptoms of a deficiency produce depression and severe fatigue. (Denise . Foley, Prevention). It has been found to effectively help slurred speech ·and possibly aid in the treatment of repeated fever and gland swelling (Bradley Nor- man, Ladies Homf' Journal). An individual's daily requirement of Vitamin B2 and Riboflavin is 2 to 3 millograms. (Collier's Encyclopedia). Some good sources of riboflavin are milk, cheese, whole grains, liver, and leafy vegetables. Riboflavin \activates Vitamin B6 and folic acid.\ It is also present in the \mobilization of sugars\ and red blood cell production (''Vitamins and Minerals: The Inside Story,\ Current Health). The production of red blood cells is probably how Vitamin B2 developed as a source of in- creased energy (Norman, Ladies Home Journal). Riboflavin is easily destroyed by an exposure to light but is relatively unaffected by heat (Collier's Encyclopedia). A deficiency causes drying and cracking of the skin around the mouth as well as eye disorders (\Vitamin and Mineral: The Inside Story,\ Current Health). women athletes need twice as much riboflavin in their daily diet as the recormnended daily allowance (Foley, Prevention). Foods that contain Niacin, Vitamin B3 are the following: Meat, Poultry, eggs, fish, dairy products, beans, legumes, whole grains, enriched cereal, and yeast. Niacin is an essential coenzyme, assisting enzymes in the release of energy from food (\Vitamin and Mineral: The Inside Story,\ Current Health). Niacin has been studied in relation to treatment of schizophrenia (Norman, LHJ). The daily requirement of niacin is 20 milligrams (Collier's Encyclopedia) and an overdose will lower the level of cholesterol in the blood: A lack of Vitamin B3 hcs been found to promote skin and mental disorders, dia1Thea, and in several cases, a disease called pellagra (\Vitamin and Mineral: The Inside Story,\ Current Health). . I have read a few differing rPports on the function of Vitamin B6, and found that one source says B6 enhances the function of proteins in body tissue; (Collier's Encyclopedia) yet another states its in- volvement in food metabolism and glucose-glycogen ex- change. This source also con- cludes that B6 is related to cell immunity and the nervous system (Vitamins and Mineral: The Inside Story, Current Health). A deficiency has been found to cause acne (Foley, Prevention) . Vitamin B6 has recently been used to relieve premenstrual symptoms such as acne and depression. Curing infertility is another area of research, as well as lessening the fatigue and depression related to the Pill (Norman, Ladies Home Journal). Food sources of Vitamin B6 are: yeast, whole grain, bananas, legumes and potatoes (Vitamin and Mineral.. .. : Current Health). Folic acid is essential in the production of red and white- blood cells as well as being involved in the synthesis and metabolism of the nucleic acids RNA and DNA. Since folic acid is crucial for red and white blood cells, its absence may be the cause of anemia (\Vitamin and Mineral: The Inside'Story,\ Current Health). Folic acid in megadoses has been found to be active in the reduction of cer- vical cancer of women on the pill. (Norman, Ladies Home Journal). The sources of this essential B vitamin are liver, dark green leafy vegetables, such as spinach, asparague, broccoli, yeast, dried beam:, and whole grains (Vitamin and Mineral: The Inside Story. Current Health). Vitamin Bl2 is not found in vegetables or fruit, and therefor vegetarians must watch themselves and make sure to either eat eggs, cheese or drink milk, or supplement their diet in some other way. Vitamin B12 is present in animal protein, fish, and meat, as well as the food mentioned above. It is related to bone marrow development, nerve tissue growth (Vitamin and Mineral: The Inside Story, Current Health) as well as mucleic acid synthesis (Collier's Encyclopedia). It is useful in treatment and prevention of anem1a (\Vitamin and Mineral: The Inside Story,\ Current Health). The other less commonly recognized B vitamins include panthothenic acid, biotin, inositol, and choline. They all contribute to essential bodily functions. Panthothenic acid is Continued on page 8 ·

ra! he 0:1 ~ht ect an ce. n; r CONCORIJIENSJ,s: Nfwember 15. 1984 PageS Humor • .• Skip -classes!! By MIKE RINALDI Staff FEATURES A new plan for scheduling of classes for the coming term was brm~ght up earlier this week. Under the new system, students would attend classes only on those days. of the week begin .. ning with \S'·' and not at times when students are either sleeping, or getting drunk in the Skeller or Pub. Classes would start and end at unusual times, like 8::19 a.m. or 9:52 a.m., which would be posted outside eac;:h·professor's office on a da¥- to•day basis. Each class would take place for as long as the instructor is willing to speak, which allows ·for tnoFe · to he taught on days of peak · at- tendance. Dean Daniels is in favor ofthe idea and was quoted as saying, \This new plan· will help students keep on their toes; as they will no longer he able to plan to skip Classes more than a day in advance.\ with an interest in holding a class, there will be a mandatory meeting to decide when the class will meet. If no time can be agreed l.IPOn;. students can drop the cou~:se and enter into a ne·w one. This plan was devised so that students can have variety and not get bored by having the same class for ten weeks. The idea .of fewer class meeting$ during the Spring appealed to President Morris, who was quoted as saying, \The new· schedule will give students the opportlliiity for life, liberty, and tliie pursuit of the perfect this ye.ar's apple harvest was pler.~Jiful as seen here at Focastle Farms. tan.'' · , The current schedule has been widely criticized on campus for its coherence, consistency, and problem- solvingnature. Students now do not have the opportunity to worry about when their class meets, if it meets at all, and if they're still in it. Without these things to worry about, . it is argued, students have too much time to study, relax, go to movies, and eat dinner. If this plan is not .appro:ved, there is .still a chance that one of the other scheduling ideas with as much credibility as this one is liable to be accepted. Dean Mammola is also in favor of \sn·ow routes\ between each building, so that students will be aqle to trudge through the snow to classes likehe had to when he was a kid. · The Wonders of Vitamins If the new plan passes with a maj'ori~y vote by the students cin Monday it · will go to the faculty for approval. If it does not pass in the student vote., it will be sent to the faculty for approval. if it is implemented it will undergo more alterations during the Spring term. Classes would then be held only when students chOse to have therh. When a majority of the students in a class contact the instructor 40Days Til Christmas By SHERRYWEITZEN Staff As I promised in my last colwnn, I am continuing :my brief overview of the subject of taking vitamin supplements with a look at Vitamin C and the B vitamins. Although, as I stated last time, I don't believe that supplements really do much for a persqn's health or prevent ru,lments;' I have more regard for the B vitamins. Vitamin B is water soluble and therefore cannot be stored for long in the body, and cannot, in excess, cause damage like the fat soluble vitamins. (\The Damage of Vitamin Sup- plements,\ Current Health 2} .. There are eleven B vitamins (Foley, Prevention) and they are active in food oxidation and energy producing functions of the body. The functions of each B vitamin is interconnected . Your talent for math . could get you ontoJEtna•s fast track With your numbers. know~how, you haye a lot of options. You could earn your -daily bread in a think-tank. Program . computers. Or maybe grad school's on your mind. · Consider another option. Join our Actuarial Stu~ent Program. The experi- ence, ~xpertise and exposure you'll get may slip you onto the fast track to advancement at.LEtna. (It's happened to people who began with skills much like your own!) If you can use your mathematical apti- tude to creatively solve complex prob- lems (you don't have to be a math major) ar:d yearn for something big, you just mrghthave undiscoveredcorner-office potential, Find out more at a reception to be held for !hose of you. who want to explare your optrons. Underclassmen are welcome. Date: Tuesday, November 27 Place: Carnegie Hall, Banquet Room Time: 7:00p.m. An equal opportunity!atfitmative action empleyer. / • with the others, and a deficiency in one may inhibit the others from functioning efficiently. (\Vitamins and Minerals: The Inside Story,\ Current Health 2). . Vitamin Bl, also known as thiamin, is active in respiration. It can be found .in such foods as lean meats, poultry, egg yolks, fish, whole grains, peanuts, and beans. (\Vitamins ·and Minerals: The Inside Story,\ Cnrrent Health 2). Thiamin is found in a wide variety of foods but is easily lost due to cooking. (Collier's Encyclopedia). A deficiency · in vitamin Bl is common in alcoholics. (B. Norman, Ladies Home Jour- nal). Symptoms of a deficiency produce depression and severe fatigue. (Denise . Foley, Prevention). It has been found to effectively help slurred speech ·and possibly aid in the treatment of repeated fever and gland swelling (Bradley Nor- man, Ladies Homf\ Journal). An individual's daily requirement of Vitamin B2 and Riboflavin is 2 to 3 millograms. (Collier's Encyclopedia). Some good sources of riboflavin are milk, cheese, whole grains, liver, and leafy vegetables . Riboflavin \activates Vitamin B6 and folic acid.\ It is also present in the \mobilization of sugars\ and red blood cell production (\Vitamins and Minerals: The Inside Story,\ Current Health). The production of red blood cells is ]lrobably how Vitamin B2 developed as a source of in-:. creased energy (Norman, Ladies Home Journal). Riboflavin is easily destroyed by an exposure to light but is relatively unaffected by heat (Collier's Encyclopedia). A deficiency causes drying and cracking of the skin around the mouth as well as eye dis.orders (\Vitamin and Mineral: The Inside Story,\ Current Health). women athletes need tWice as much riboflavin in their daily diet as the recommended daily allowance (Foley, Prevention). · Foods that contain Niacin, Vitamin l33 are the folloWing: Meat, Poultry, eggs, fish, dairy products, beans, legumes, whole grains, enriched cereal, and yeast. Niacin is an essential coenzyme, assisting enzymes in the release of energy from food (\Vitamin and Mineral: The Inside Story,\ Current Health). Niacin has been studied in relation to treatment of schizophrenia (Norman, LH:J). The daily requirement of niacin is 20 milligrams (Collier's Encyclopedia) and an overdose will lower the level of cholesterol in the blood.' A lack of Vitamin B3 hcs been found to promote skin and mental disorders, diat'rhea, and in several eases, a disease called pellagra (\Vitamin and Mineral: The Inside Story,\ Current Health}. . I have read a few differing rPports on the function of Vitamin B6, and found that one source says B6. enhances the function of proteins in body tissue; (Collier's Encyclopedia) yet another states its in- volvement in food metabolism and glucose-glycogen ex- change. This source also con- cludes that B6 is related to <;!ell. immunity and the nervous system (Vitamins and Mineral: The Inside Story, Current Health). A deficiency has been found to cause acne (Foley, Prevention). Vitamin B6 has recently been used to relieve premenstrual symptoms such as acne and depression. Curing infertility is another area of research, as well as lesseningthe fatigue and depression related to the Pill (Norman, Ladies Home Journal). Food sources of Vitamin B6 are: yeast, whole grain, bananas, legumes and potatoes (Vitamin and Mineral.. .. : Current Health). Folic acid is essential in the production of red and white- blood cells as well as being involved in the synthesis and metabolism of the nucleic acids RNA and DNA. Since folic acid is crucial for red and white blood cells, its absence may be the cause of anemia (\Vitamin and Mineral: The Inside'Story,\ Current Health). Folic acid in megadoses has been found to be active in the reduction of cer- vical cancer of women on the pill. (Norman, Ladies Home Journal). The sources of this essential B vitamin are liver, dark green leafy vegetables, such as spinach, asparague, broccoli, yeast, dried beam:, and whole grains (Vitamin and Mineral: The Inside Story. Current Health). · Vitamin B12 is not found in vegetables or frUit, and therefor vegetarians must watch themselves and make sure to either eat eggs, cheese or drink milk, or supplement their diet in some other way. Vitamin B12 is present in animal protein, fish, and meat, as well as the food mentioned above. It is related to bone marrow development, nerve tissue growth (Vitamin and Mineral: The Inside Story, Current Health) as well as mucleic acid synthesis (Collier's Encyclopedia). It is useful in treatment and prevention of anem1a ·(\Vitamin and Mineral: The Inside Story,'' Current Health). The other less commonly recognized B vitamins include panthothenic acid, biotin, inositol, and choline. They all contribute to essential bodily functions. Panthothenic acid is Continued on page 8 ·

Pa~e 6 IFC Workshop Series PRESENTS: The Money Game-D Survival As A Treasurer Keynote Speaker: Mr. Te-rry Burns ·Senior Vice President, Key Bank · Union Alumnus (AD Phi) For all Fraternity/Sorority/Student Activities Treasurers & Prospective Officers 4th Floor Fo,rum Room Carnegie Hall Thursday, November 15 • 7:30p.m. Will You Be Better Off In The Next Four Years? TODAY· A discussi--on on President Reagan's . c;:ontinuing econom- ic policies to be held on Thursday, Nov. 15 at 7:30p.m . • 1ft Dutch Hollow Pub Professors Lewis, freed and Schaeffer will be hosting the discussion Sponsored by Phi Beta Kappa and the Student Forum - -~-- CONCORD/f.'.\'.\1.\: .Voremher 15, 191/.1 MllSJC IN THE TRADITION OF Johann Sebastian Bach The first of t~elve tecita:ls of organ music that will include the majority of the· major works for organ by J .S. Bach. Hugh Allen Wib;on · Organi\·t at Memorial Chapel Union College · Elinore Farnum~ G'uest-Arti\·t Admission is .free and Open to the Public 17 November 1984 8p.m. Memorial (110pel The_ first of twelve recitals of organ music that will include the majority of the major works for organ by J .S. Bach

Page6 IFC. Workshop Series PRESENTS: The Money Game-- Survival As A Treasurer Keynote Speake.r: M.r. Te·rry Burns ·Senior Vice President, Key Bank 'Union Alumnus (ADPhi) For all Fraternity/Sorority/Student Activities Treasurers & Prospective Officers 4th Floo-r Forum Room Carnegie Hall Thursday, November 15 • 7:30p.m. . Will You Be BeHer Off In The Next Four Years? TODAY· A discussi,on on President Reagan's continuing econom- ic policies to be held on Thursday, Nov. 15 at 7:30p.m. in Dutch Hollow Pub Professors Lewis, freed and Schaeffer will be hosting the discussion Sponsored by Phi Beta Kappa and the Student Forum CONCORDIENSIS. Noremha 15. 198.J · MUSIC IN THE TRADITION OF Johann Sebastian Bach The first of t~elve recitals of organ music that will include the majority of the· major works for organ by J.S. Bach. Hugh Allen Wil\·on Organist at Memorial Chapel Union College - Elinore Farnum, Guest-Artist Adtni\'Sion i\·free an{l Open to the Public: 17 November 1984 8p.m. Memorial Chapel The first of twelve recitals of - .. organ musk that will include the major.ity of the major works for organ by J.S~ Bach ~ \ '

~· ll'\\;\.,,i .,, ~ : << -~· MN·\ ·o~~~. · ~. \ ~;iN,~·· .. '>'' \0~ ·····.-:~ . '\ r~ · .. ·'.·. h '' ,.,, C\ C . . ' . ' ~ !.}~ lli EN By AMYOPPENHEIMER Staff , First year women, what were you doing Thursday, November 1 at 7 p.m.? You were all invited to attend, the films Betty Tells Her Story, and Beauty Knows No Pain, shown in the music room at the library; but none of you came. Y.lier §tory, \Betty\ tells us about a funny, sad, and very important story in her life. The discussion following the film centered on self-perception: what about us, as persons, is imp<Jrtant to us; what makes us feel good about ourselves; and how important is appearance in developing self-confidence? The second film, Beauty Knows No Pain, followed the training and selection of new members of a southern tlag squad. This film prompted a closer examination of the importance of ap- pearance. Why is it that sex roles are so narrowly defined that we, as women, are evaluated by how we look rather than by what we do? Are they .still so narrowly defined? A second topic relevan~·~o this film was the common per- ception or misconception of sororities on campus. !Election Analysis: The coordinators of the films and the discussion which followed-Assistant Dean J. Tobiesson and the professors S. Gmelch and L. Mendelsohn~ planned this evening to stimulate student-professor interaction outside the traditional classroom at- mosphere. In other words, they wanted to meet first year women in a casual atmosphere and talk about a topic relevant to all. There are relatively few female faculty and ad- ministrators on campus. The films and discussion were put together to help increase op- portunities for women students and women faculty to meet. In particular it ·was aimed at first year women because of a growing perception that they, as new students, are often cut off from developing possibly ~ewarding relationships with 'the faculty. So no first year women made it on Thursday night-only a few upperclass women crashed the party. We had a great time and met new people, both professors and students. Professors Gmelch and Men- delsohn will be showing these films and hosting other events in the winter term. Look for news in Concordiensis and invitations in your mail. These and other professors are making a serious commitment to reach you; if you have suggestions which can help them or ideas you are interested in, let them know. The at- mosphere Thursday was fun and informal. Come to listen or talk but don't miss this op- portunity. Reagan us Winning Strategy In the first film, Betty Tells Women Voice\ is, by its design, a column to reflect the women of the college and community. Anyone wishing to contribute to the column and its calendar, please contact Karla Hanson, Box 1024. By ERIC LJIPMAN Staff \What do the results of the election mean?\ It is a question that political corrunentators and journalists nave been asking aloud since the returns signaling the fo 1ty-nine state win by Reagan came in a week ago Tuesday . . . No doubt with all the speculation of realign- ments anti a ··shift to the right·', more than a few Union students WQMEN VOICE CALENDAR Nov. 15-5-7 p.m.-Women's Support Group, Women's Network Room Nov. 15.8:30 p.m.-Women's Network Meeting, Women's Network Room Nov. 16-12:15 p.m.-\Women in China: The Impact of the Revolution\ Strauss Lounge 1 bring vour own lunch l · Nov. 17-AAUW Museum Trip to New York City Museum of Modern Art. Writ~ .Joanne Cham- bers. 19 Juniper Drive, Clifton Park, NY 12065. Deadline TODAY! Nov. 17-l p.m.-Women's Swimming at Albany Nov. 20-7 p.m.-Women's Basketball vs. Vassar Nov. 21-12:15 p.m.-Women's Commission Meeting. Women's Network Room Nov. 21-7:30 a.m.-Schenectady Women's Network Breakfast. Holiday Inn, Nott Terrace Nov. 28-7:30 p.m.-League of Women Voters \Program on Natural Resources, .. call370-3998 Nov. 28-12:15 p.m.-\The Weeping Woman: A MesoAmerican Myth.\ Brenda Rosenbawn, I . SUNY at Albany. HU 354 . I Nov. 29-··women and Religion Today,\ Schenectady Unitarian Church, write Lynn Locke. 5 Jefferson Street, Schenectady, NY 12305 NASA Tests Amateur Idea By PETER MOHR Staff There are many students at Union who are interested in research in their fields, but not all of them have the chance, or the time, to fully develop their ideas. Junior Rich Cavoli. however, has had the ex- perience of working on a chemistry project for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) for several years. When he was a junior in high school, Cavoli had heard of a competition ~.in which high school students could submit proposals to NASA for ex- periments on·the space shuttJe. Of the 3600 proposals, only 10 were accepted, including Cavoli's. Specifically, he is attempting to control crystal formation of X-ray sensitive lead iodide. This substance is found in .Xuray detection films, such as those used by doctors to observe bone structures. The problem with x~ rays is that they can be harmful to the body and can even cause cancer. Within the film, there are crystals which are sensitive to X-rays. When exposed to these rays, the crystals produce the familiar pictures of bone structures. If the crystals could be made more sensitive to the X-rays, then fewer of the rays would be needed in taking images of the body. Therefore, a person would be able to un- dergo X-ray tests of lesser in- tensity. The pictures produced, however. must have at least the same quality as those now obtained. Previous experiments in space have indicated that crystals tend to approach a · more \perfect\ lattice (or shape, such as a cube) than that which can be obtained on earth. These near-perfect crystals are highly sensitive to X-rays and are therefore appropriate for Cavoli's project. He assumes, but does not know for sure, that these crystals can be brought back to earth unaltered. So far, Cavoli's work has consisted primarily of gathering the results of . previous experiments and developing the focus of his project. He has worked in- termittently for the past five years on his experiments. Cavoli hopes to have his crystals developed on a space shuttle flight within the first few months of 1985, but he describes that time as tentative. Cavoli, a biology-chemistry major, has received a great amount of support from the College. Each of the ten NASA projects must have a sponsor, usually a large corporation. Between the time his project was accepted by :'-rASA and his freshman year. Cavoli was unable to find a corporate sponsor. Union. however, has provided support to Cavoli; since his freshman year, he has received funds from the Internal Education Foundation riEF). This money has been used mostly to buy materials and to cover travel expenses to NASA centers. Co1.11tinued Gill page 8 il f have been wondering as well what indication, if any, the election gives us on the direc- tion America is travelling in. As long as the debafe and the discussion is raging on, I have been asked by 'the Con- cordiensis editors to include some of my thoughts on the topic. Before I start off though, I would like to leave my \gun at the door\ as it were; throughout the campaign I was an active Reagan supporter, and even chain:J hb re-dedion cow- mittee on campus. Yet, where some might say my affiliation with the campaign would bias anything I might have to say, I think it is precisely those ex- periences which give me an excellent vantage point from which to comment about what the results tell us . . . while reading this, I hope you will decide for yourself. First off, an important con- sideration when trying to figure out what the elections \mean\. might be what mental processes do people go through when they are preparing to choose a President? A prominent theory from every Political Science 11 t.las::. ici the iJea uf retro.::iiJedivt voting. That is, when people are preparing to vote they are in actuality passing judgement on the incumbent; they think retrospectively over the time the incumbent has been in of- fice, asking themselves \Has our representative done a good job?\ It is believed that how a voter answers this question has a tremendous effect on how that person will vote. A con- temporary example of how a politician tries to influence that question is Reagan's famous line from the 1980 debates \Are you l.•.'tter off now than you were ~:::.•· years ago?\ ~ow, presur;::: 6 that people in America vote restrospectively, what might this lead us to think about the strategy of winning the election, and thi: success or 'failure of the strategies used by '}oth Reagan and :W.ondalc-'? .. I regard the :vfondale-Ferraro candidacy as nne that was based on future issues and not things that could be thought of retrutipt:divel}, the ilHpt:uuiug demise of our economy if we do not do something about the deficits, the star wars technology and the arms race of the future, the centrality of providing for our children's education, as this will ensure the future strength of America. By contrast, Ronald Reagan approached the voter saying in effect: we have got inflation down; we have a growing economy: the tax burden for the majority of Americans has been reduced; and not one inch of soil has fallen under communist domination since he has been in office .. Given that the munbers of 1\.ti-~Ulillt.:ilil.S lli Cvn~rt:!s., ili ~384 is less than in 1980, the case for an /\merican conservative realig:!rnent is a weak one. What l think is a better analysis is that Reagan focused on the issues that made an impact on those voters who were ili1- decided, v:hile Walter Mondale focused on those issues that he thought \concerned\ voters the most. There is an important difference. Reagan's, was a winning strategy. UNION · 1 ¥fiHY ~mp@rt@mlt meeti!iig No11 0 ! ~ in Str@lluss Lounge , i' ~ 3 0 ~. m .. Que:.. tions: Contact Andy Arthur :I ~717/-~@~6 il ,~'!f'mzrzmw=¥ *M·U+'Jbi#ii&W'&AA'i'Smh\~-X..·· ... •· · J,J

~ CONCORDIENSI.S: Noremher 15. 1984 Page7 ------~~--------------------------------~------~--------------------------~--~ vv .. * e ? ' & 44Ut - v .. . OMEN ~ tJ . c !!!· . [I; • By AMY OPPENHEIMER Staff , First year women, what were you doing Thursday, November 1 at 7 p.m.? You were all invited to attend, the films Betty Tells Her Story, and Beauty Knows No Pain. shown in the music room at the library; but none of you came. Her Story, \Betty\ tells us about a funny, sad, and very important story in her life. The discussion following the film centered on self-perception; what about us, as persons, is important to us; what makes us feel good about ourselves; and how important is appearance in developing self-confidence? The second film, Beauty Knows No l?ain, followed the training and selection of new members of a southern flag squad. This film prompted a closer exa:miJ:lation of the importance of ap- pearance. Why is it that sex roles are so narrowly defined that we, as women, are evaluated .by how we look rather than by what we do? Ate they stil~ so narrowly defined? A second topic relevani!.•w this film was the common per- ception or misconception of sororities on campus. Election Analysis: IFE1t\ TURES The coordinators of the films and the discussion which followed~ Assistant Dean J. Tobiesson and the professors. S. Gmelch and L. Mendelsohn~ planned this evening to stimulate student-professor interaction outside the traditional classroom at-· mosphere. In other words, they wanted to meet first year women in a casual atmosphere and talk about a topic relevant to all. There are relatively few female faculty and ad- ministrators. on campus. The films and discussion were put together to help Increase op- portunities for women students and women faculty to meet. In partiCular it ·was aimed at first year women because of a growing perception that they, as new students, are often cut off from developing possibly rewarding relationships with the faculty. So no first year women made it on Thursday night-only a few upperclass women crashed the party. We had a great time and. met new people, both professors and students. Professors Gmelch and Men· delsohn will be showing these .films and hosting other events in the winter term. Look for news in Concordiensis and invitations in yolk mail. These and other professors are making a serious commitment to reach you; if you have suggestions which can help them or ideas you are interested in, let them know. The at- mosphere Thursday was fun and informal. Come to listen or talk but don't miss this op- portunity. Reagan is Winning Strategy In the first film, Betty Tells Women Voice\ is, by its design, a column to reflect the women of the college and community. Anyone wishing to contribute to the column and its calendar, please contact Karla Hanson, Box 1024. By ERIC LIPMAN Staff \What do the results of the election mean?\ It is a question that political commentators and journalists have been asking aloud since the returns signaling the forty-nine state win by Reagan came in a week ago Tuesday . . . No doubt with all the speculation of realign- ments and a ··shift to the right'·, more than a few Union students WQMEN VOICE CALENDAR Nov. 15-5-7 p.m.-Women'sSupport Group, Women'sNetworkRoom Nov.15, 8:30p.m.-Women's Network Meeting, Women's Network Room Nov. 16-12:15 p.m.-··women in China: The Impact of the Revolution\ Strauss Lounge (bring your own lunch) Nov. 17-AAVW Museum Trip to New York City Museum of Modern Art. Writ~ Joanne Cham- bers, 19 Juniper Drive, Clifton Park, NY 12065. Deadline TODAY! Nov.l7-1 p.m.-Women's Swimming at Albany Nov. 20-7 p.m.-Women's Basketball vs. Vassar Nov. 21-12: 15p.ru.-Wonien's Commission Meeting, Women'sNetwork Room Nov. 21-7:30 a.m.--Schenectady Women's Network Breakfast, Holiday Inn, Nott Terrace f Nov. 28-7:30-p.m.-League of Women Voters \Program on Natural Resources,\ call370-3998 \ Nov. 28-12:15 p.m.-\The Weeping Woman: A MesoAmerican Myth,\ Brenda Rosenbawn, • SUNY at Albany, HU 354 . · Nov. 29-\Women and Religion Today,'' Schenectady Unitarian Church, write Lynn Locke, 5 Jefferson Street, Schenectady, NY 12305 \ NASA Tests Amateur Idea By PETER MOHR Staff There are many students at Union who are interested in research in their fields, but not all of them have the chance, or the time, to fully develop their ideas. Junior Rich Cavoli, however, has had the ex- perience of . working on a chemistry project for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) for several years. When he was a jWlior in high school, Cavoli had heard of a competition .,.in which high school students could submit proposals to NASA for ex- perir'.nents on·the space shutQe. Of the 3000 proposals, only 10 were accepted, including Cavoli's. Specifically, he is attempting to control crystal formation of X-ray sensitive lead iodide. This substance is found in .X-ray detection films, such as those used by doctors to observe bone structures. The problem with X- rays is that they can be harmful to ·the body and can even cause cancer. Within the film, there are crystals which are sensitive to X-rays. When exposed to these rays, the crystals produce the familiar pictures of bone structur~s. If the crystals could be made more sensitive to the X-rays, then fewer of.the rays would be needed in taking images of the body. Therefore, a person would be able to un- dergo X-ray tests of lesser in- tensity. The pictures produced, however, must have at least the same quality as those now obtained. Previous experiments in space have indicated that crystals ttmd to approach a · more \perfect\ lattice (or shape, suchas a cube) than that which can be obtained on earth. These near-perfect crystals are highly sensitive to X-rays and are therefore appropriate for Cavoli's project. He assumes, but does not know for sure, that these crystals can be brought back to earth unaltered. So far, Cavoli's work has consisted primarily of gathering the results of . previous experiments and developing the focus of his project. He has worked in- termittently 'for the past five years on his experiments. Cavoli hopes to have his crystals developed on a space shuttle flight within the first few rnonths of 1985, but he describes that time as tentative. Cavoli, a biology-chemistry major, has received a great amount of support from the College. Each of the ten NASA projects must have a sponsor, usually a large corporation. Between the time his project was accepted by NASA and his freshman year, Cavoli was· unable to find a corporate sponsor. Union, however, has provided support to Cavoli; since his freshman year, he has received funds from the Internal Education Foundation (IEF). This money has been used mostly to buy materials and to cover travel expenses to NASA centers. Continued on page 8 · have been wondering as well what Indication, if any, the election gives us on the direc- tion America is travelling in. As long as the debate and the discussion is raging_on, 1 have been asked by the Con- cordiensis editors to include some of my thoughts on the topic. Before I start off though, Y would like to leave my \gun at the door\ as it were; throughout the campaign I was an active Reagan supporter, and even ehairt!u. his re-election cmu- mittee on campus. Yet, where some might say my affiliation with the campaign would bias anything I might have to say, I think it is precisely those ex- periences which give me an excellent vantage point from which to comment about what the results tell us . . . while reading this, I hope you will decide for yourself. First off, an important con- sideration when trying to figure out what the elections \mean\, might be what mental processes do. people go through when they are preparing to choose a President? A prominent theory from every Political Science 11 ..;~CiSlo i;; lht iJea vf rtJtruspedtve voting. That is, when people are preparing to vote they are in actuality passing judgement on the incumbent; they think retrospectively over the time the incumbent has been in of- fice, asking themselves \Has our representative done a good job?\ It is believed that how a voter answers this question has a tremendous effect on how that person will vote. A con- temporary example of how a politician tries to influence that ques~ion is Reagan's famous line from the 1980 debates \Are you better off now than you were·:'::·~:\ years ago?\ Now, presur,,:: g that people in America vote restrospectively, what might this lead us to think about the strategy of winning the election, and th€ success or 'failure of the strategies used by both Reagan and Mondale\ . . I regard the Mondale-Ferraro candidacy as one that was based on future issues and not things that could be thought of relrospedi.vel;; the i.mpeuuing demise of our economy if we do not do something about the deficits, the star wars technology and the arms race of the future, the centrality of providing for our children's education, as this will ensure the future strength of America. By contrast, Ronald Reagan approached the voter saying in effect: we have got inflation down; we have a growing economy; the tax burden for the majority of Americans has been 1·educed; and not one inch of soil has fallen under communist domination since he has been in office. . Given that the numbers of ficyul.lllc<ms i.n Cvngn::so hi 1984 is less than in 1980, the case for an American conservative realig runent is a weak one. What l think is a better analysis is that Reagan focused on the issues that made an impact on those voters who were uil- decided, v.:hile Walter Mondale focused on those issues that he thought \concerned\ voters the most. There is an important difference. Reagan's, was a winning strategy. UNION· COLLEGE ~NVESTMENT ALLIANCE ~mportant meeti~ng Nov. 18 in Strauss lounge~ 7:30p.m. f. t i I t. t I I I I Que:..tions: Contact Andy Arthur ~f.·· ~77J .. 9036 r ~---.um-=aa-. .. -.-..- .. .w-.-.~~~,.~~ .,., ~'

>- ..Q 0 - 0 .c Q. IJ) m 0\ .c u Students enjoying an afternoon in Librar CONCORDIENSIS, Nm•emher/5, 1984 Vitamins II Continued from page 5 involved in food metabolism and hormone production in- cluding the synthesis of fats, breakdown of fats, and as crucial participants in the Citric Acid Cycle, which is involved in Carbohydrate Metabolism (Collier's Encyclopedia). · Student Works with NASA In conclusion of this s~ction of the B vitamins, it is said that the B vitamins are resources· of energy and in their absence, a person can expect to feel noticeable fatigue. In one report, vitamin B is difficult to replace by athletes who burn up more energy than non-athletes, and therefore should sup- plement their diets with vitamin B supplement (Foley, Prevention) yet another article says that any athlete who mainta.ins a balanced diet, will obtain sufficient dosage for these essential vitamins. (Vitam and Mineral: The Inside Story, Current Health). Again, the experts disagree, and I cannot reach a conclusion. I think the argument for sup- plementing one's diet with Vitamin B is acceptable, yet probably unnecessary because of the wide variety of food sources it can be obtained from statement). Many people swear by. vitamin C, mainly for cold prevention (Lewis Vaughn, Prevention). In reality, vitamin C cannot be found to prevent or cure colds, but has many other effects on the body. Vitamin C essentially acts as \a water soluble mimic of Vitamin E,\ and is involved in maintenance of collagen, a prevelant con- nective tissue (Gale Malesky, Prevention). It is important in the healing process and may even prevent internal bleed,ing (Vitam and Mineral: The Inside Story, Current Health). Vitamin C is also thought to assist fightfug. infections because for its high concentration in lym- phocytes. New research has uncovered Cas a possible aid in preventing the spread of cana cer, by C surrounding the cancerous cells in a capsule of tissure and isolating them. (Malesky, Prevention). Other researched benefits of Vitamin C include: reducing glaucoma, preventing peridontal disease, relief of asthma by lessening the tightness of chest, decreasing elevated levels of cholesterol andti·iglyceride levels, reducing heat in- tolerance, reducing nervous tension, preventing shingles, and reducing the chance of sperm clumping, a cause of infertility (Eileen Mazer, Prevention) .. Continued from page 7 He cannot say for sure if the result of his project, which will hopefully be highly sensitive lead iodide, will be marketable. The crystals which are formed in space must be returned to earth unchanged. Even if this is successful, these crystals will still only be developed in space, which would require a large amount of money. Cavoli speaks optimistically of this problem, noting that some pharmaceutical companies are presently working with the idea Cavoli has also received a large amount of guidance and advice from Professor Charles Scaife of Chemistry. Cavoli credits him with providing assistance ''in directing the project.\ He is also grateftd for the ad,•ice received from Professor Alan Ns:Jlson of English; William Daniels, Dean of Undergraduate Studies; and Thomas D'Andrea, Vice President for Academic Affairs. Junior Trustee Andrew George one of the planners of President's Dinner for the Class of 1988. ' 213 Days 'Til . Graduation! Paralysis In a world where black i1· !frey, And white i1 dirty, I dwell at the center-- PARALYZED By deep()' rooted prejudices And confusion I exi1t But I am not dead •. . For my reflexes Are only asleep, Lulled in slumber By a deceiving lullaby. Truth is the key To my bondage; Courage will mobilize My senses to the fore. But do /want To break free? ... now, THIS is the paralyzing question. --Maria Lomotun Has Your Muse Left Town? Try ... The Writing Center of building \space factories.'' Although the space shuttle flight will be a landmark in the project, it will be only t~e beinning. Follow-up analysis will require much time, effort, and money. After he graduates from Union, Cavoli plans on at- tending medical school. Ultimately, he would like to work in a large research- oriented hospital, such as the Sloan Kettering Foundation in New York City. Freshmen. . .. On the other hand, vitamin C receives the award for most myths, and least credibility (I'll probably be stoned for that A Special Meal By DAVID FITZGERALD Features Editor All Freshmen should reserve the night of Saturday, January 19, for a very special event. On this evening the second annual President's Dinner for the Class of 1988 will be held. Dean Mammola, Dean Massa, Jan Gray, Harry Demgen, Andrew George, Steven Benson, and Lisa Freed are the members of the President's Dinner Plan- ning Committee. This group of administrators and students are working hard to see to it that the Freshman Class has a fun and memorable evening. The President's Dinner to the Freshman Class is a tradition that was brought back into practice last year. Andrew George, Junior Trustee of Union . College and member of the Student Forum, felt last year that a special event should be held for Freshmen in order to , reintroduce them to the College. This year the schedule of events has been extended beyond the President's Dinner to a full evening of entertainment. The evening will begin with all of the Freshmen reporting to Hale House and Old Chapel to eat dinner. This . in itself is a privilege that Freshmen are not allowed to have normally. At the dinner the Class of 1988 will hear speeches given by John S. Morris, President of Union College; Harry Demgen, Director of Alumni Affairs; and Steven Benson, President of the Student Forum. The Union College Dutch Pipers will sing during dinner and the masters of ceremonies at the dinner will be Dean Mammola and Andrew George. See You 1985 • 1n After dinner the Class of 1988 will go to Memorial Chapel for a one hour program of en- tertainment. Ken Budka will be the master of ceremonies at the Memorial Chapel event. Currently auditions are un- derway for performers at this- event. The entertainment program will end with the Union College Dutch Pipers singing their medley of Union College songs. . When the entertainment ends, the final event of the evening will be a dance in Old Chapel. The committee is also auditioning bands for this part of the evening. It is Qoped that this dance will be just as good and enjoyable as the dance held during orientation. It is hoped that the Freshman Class will have a great evening and this will help them to feel that they are true members of the Union College Community. Freshmen, reserve the evening of Saturday, Januaryl9, 1985! Yet as much good vitamin C does for a person, an excess can cause a number of discomforts. An overdose of vitamin C, has been connected to diarrhea and stomach upsets as well as ulcers. Kidney and bladder stones are among the results of an excess of . C. C inhibits the absorption of Bl2, and thlls. is a possible cause of anemia, as well as an adverse effect on growing bones, (\The Damage, Current Health) and may cause rebound scurvy (\Supplements- - Too much of a good thing, U.S.A. Today). . Vitamin C also interferes with medical tests such as blood andureint tests, and alters the results. This is because it inhibits chemical reactions and gives a heightened result (Anne Goodwin, The Mother Earth News). An overdose of Vitamin C can cause a masking effect of a bleeding ulcer (''Sup~ plements-Too much of a good thing,\ U.S.A. Today). If you decide that you wish to eliminate vitamin C sup- plements, do it gradually, because a drastic reduction in vitamin C level can cause the body to suffer from a deficiency (\The Damage of Vitamin Supplement,'' Current Health). Every one knows that vitamin C is contained in citrus fruits, but other sources include raw leafy. vegetables, strawberries, green peppers, cantelope, potatoes, berries, and pineapple (\Vitamins and Minerals: The Inside Story;' Current Health). This ends my study on vitamins. I make no con- clusions, just that taking vitamin supplements may not always be as healthy as we may believe , in excess could prove to be harmful.

• CONCORD/ENS/~: Noremht•r/5, 1984 P;~ge 9 Final Exam Schedule IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular: ''day'' undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate Studies and Continuing Education courses will be announced, and students in \Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the annotmcement of the exam time for those courses. Some dav courses have common exams with evening division .sections. Please refer to the end of these listings for these courses. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. D' Amato in the Office of the Registrar not later than November 21, 1984. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. AB-Arts Building N-North Wing, Sci-Engr. Center BH-Bailey Hall PY -Psychology Building BU-Butterfield Hall SS-5ocial Sciences Building HU-Humaruties Building SH-5teinmetz Hall MONDAY, DECEMBER 3-9:00-11:00 a.m. Liberal Learning 51-Nuclear Weapons and Arms Control-Martin, BU 109 Arts tO-Introduction to the Arts-Dellaira, Robbins, AB 202 Classics 21-History of Greece-Toher, HU 019 . Economics 11-Introduction to Microeconomics, Sec. 2-8chmidt, SS113 Economics 31-Microeconomic Analysis;...Klein, SS 115 · English 25-Introduction to Shakespeare-Higgins, HU 116 English 46-Modern Drama-Frazier, HU 117 History 40-TheCrusades: Christianity and Islam in Conflict-sargent, SS 010 History 54-Russia in the Imperial Age-Berk, SS 012 History 112;,.Work and Workers in American History-Dudden, SS014 German 138-Ten German Geniuses-Warde, HU 116 Russian 10-Basic Russian I-Jernakoff, HU 114 Spanish 130-Readings in Contemporary Spanish and Spanish-American Lit.- Qualtere, HU 110 Philosophy 20-Classical Logie-Kaminsky, HU 112 Political Science 12-Contemporary International Politics-Gati, SS 112 Sociology 1G-Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 2-Huggins, SS 117 Biology 53-Forests of the. Northeast-Tobiessen, N 016 Biology !50-Evolutionary Biology-J. Boyer, N 012 Biology 162-Introduction to Neurobiology-Lambert, Olberg, BH 205 Math 18-Introduction to Logic and Set Theory, Sec. 2-Niefield, BH 108 Math 41-Linear Algebra I, Sec. 3-Barbanel, BH 207 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I-Bell, N 014 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 4-Foley, PY 113 Psychology 33-Psychology of Memory and Thinking-Greenberg-PY 213 Psychology 3D-Developmental Psychology-Kanner--PY 102 Psychology 62-Practicum in Human Relations I-Girdner-PY 204 E.L.L. 10-Technology in Historical Perspective-Griggs, BH 201 E.L.L. 49-Nuclear Technology in War and Peace: A Study of Issues and Choices- Shanebrook, BU 106 E.S. lO;...Mechanics I, Sec. 2-Lakhanpal, N 116 MONDAY,DECEMBER3-2:00-4:00p.m. Liberal Learning 55-Images of the Sea-Kaplan, Morris, B. Boyer, Schadler, Weiss, BH 104 · Economics 42-Macroeconomic Theory and Policy-Kershner, SS 112 Economics 145-Managerial Economy-Kenney, SS 117 Philosophy 42-Ethics-Baker, HU 116 .., Political Science 21-Methods of Social Research-Weiner-HU 110 Political Science 32-American Political Thought-Brown-ss 113 Political Science 52-Soviet Foreign Policy-Gati, SS 115 Sociology GO-Methods of Social Research-Weiner, HU 110 Sociology 141-Crime and Justice in Society-Huggins, SS 110 Statistics llG-Introduction to Statistical Methods-Belyea, BH 102 Accounting tO-Financial Accounting (M.W. section)-Hurley, BH 207 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, sec. 5-Lipton, PY 113 Computer Science 11-Programming for the Social Sciences-Albright, BH 201 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4-9:00..11:00 a.m. Liperal Learning 50-Special T9pics in Geology-stone, BH 106 Latin 10-Principles of Latin I-8orum, HU 112 Economics 1()-.lntroduction lo Macroeconomics, sec. 2-Klein, HU 117 Economics 11-Introduction to Microeconomics, sec. 1-Lewis, HU 114 Economics 32-Labor and Industrial Relations-Prosper, SS 115 Economics 58-China!-Reynolds, SS 117 English 19-Major English Authors I: Chaucer-Milton-Higgins, HU 115 English 55-shakespeare to 1600-8tevenson, HU 116 History 11-History and Society: The Modernization and Growth of Global Society- Finkelstein, Hansen, HU 019 History 67-China!-Reynolds, SS 117 History 121-American Constitutional and Legal History: The Federal Experience- -Jonas, SS 010 . French to-Basic French I, sec. 1 and 2-McDermott, HU 014 §panish 133-Mast4ring Written Spanish-Qualtere, HU 110 Political Science 11-Contemporary American Politics, sec. 1-Tidmarch, SS 112 Political Scienc3 66-Presidential Politics-Daniels, SS113 Sociology 10-IntrQduction to Sociology, Sec. 1-Lyng, SS 012 Biology 138-Parasitology-Styles, N 222 Chemistry 152-Physical Chemistry II-Anderson, N 116 Math 18-Introduction to Logic and Set Theory, Sec.1-Barbanel, BH 104 Math 41-Linear Algebra I, sec. 1-Fairchild, BH 203 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics 1-Pllcher, BH 201 Physics 13-lntroduction to Physics !1-Davis, N 014 Physics 22-Electronic Circuits-Jones, N 016 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec.l-Huntley, PY 102 Psychology 20-Statistical Methods in Psychology-Greenberg-PY 213 Psychology 31-Abno~l Psychology-Nydegger-PY 113 E.S. 30-Mechanics of Deformable Solids-Weiss, BH 207 C.E. 160-Transportation Engineering-Griggs, BU 106 . . I TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4-2:0G-4:00 p.m. Greek l()...Principles of Greek I-8orum, HU 119 English 18-Introduction to the Study of Literary Forms-Wineapple, HU 117 English 31-Genre Studies: Arthurian Romance--Fleming, HU 114 History 44-A Survey of Modern Europe, 1715-1945-Berk, SS 115 History 118;....American Enterprise Abroad-Finkelstein, SS 113 Russian 133-Intermediate Russian 11-Jernakoff, HU 213 Spanish 10-Basic Spanish I, Sec. 2-Montano, HU 116 Spanish 12-Intermediate Spanish Sec. 1-Krebs, HU 112 . Sec. 2-Vinick, HU 110 . Political Science 11-Contemporary American Politics, Sec. 3-Klunk, SS 012 Political Science 13-Contemporary Political Analysis-Sharl~t, SS 117 Sociology 10-Introduction to Sociology, sec. 3-Weiner, SS 112· Anthropology 50-Sex Roles in Comparative Perspective-S. Gmelch, SS 014 Biology'23-The Cell., G. Smith, SS 016 Biology 32-Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy.:..Butterstein, BH 2CY1 Biology 51-Ecology-George, N 116' Chemistry 40-Quantitative Chemistry-schaefer, BH 102 Math 41-Linear Algebra I, Sec. 2-Sherling, BH 106 Math 146-Advanced Calculus I..Seiken, BH 108 Physics 42-Great Ideas of Modem Phusics-Reich, N 012 Physics 120-Introduction to Astronomy and AstrophysicEMSchick, N 016 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology Sec. 2-Calabria, PY 113 Sec. 3-8pring, PY 102 E.S. tO-Mechanics I, Sec. 1-Weiss, BH 201 E.S. 22-8cience of Engineering Materials (10:30 sec.)-Millllo, BU 109 E.S. 26-Thermodynamics of Deformable Solids-Panlilio, N 210 C.E. 152-Environmental Engineering I-8now, ·Bu 300 E.E. 144-Communication Systems I-Rudko, BU 106 C.S. 18-Introduction to Computer Organization-Albright, BU 204 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5-9:00..11:00 a.m. Greek 130-Homer: The Diad-Toher, HU 110 Economics 10-Introduction to Macroeconomics Sec. 3-Motahar, SS 016 Sec. 4-Motahar, SS016 Sec. 5-Fried, SS 115 Economics 43-Economic Growth and Development-Fried, SS 115 French 141-Fromthe Age of Louis XIV to the Age of Voltaire-McDermott, HU 112 Ge~man 12-Intermediate German-Mache, HU 116 Philosophy 30-Greek Philosophy-Taylor, HU 117 Math 30-0rdinary Differential Equations Sec. 1-Maddaus, BH 108 Sec. 2-Gillette, BH 106 Sec. 3-8tone, BH 203 Sec. 4-Seiken, BH 104 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (For Class of 1988, sec. 2)-Pea}(, BH 201 Physics 131-Electromagnetism-Titus, SH 106 AOP Chemistry 02-Introduction to Chemistry II-Enokian, BH 102 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5-2:00-4:00 p.m. Math 10-Calculus I ' Sec. 4-Maddaus, BH 205 Sec. 1-Sherling, BH 108 Sec. 5-Zimmerman, SS 115 Sec. 2-Rosenthal, BH 102 Sec. 6-Niefield, BH 104 Sec. 3-Muckenfuss, BH 2fJ7 Sec. 7-Zimmerman, SS 115 Sec. 4-Taylor, BU 204 Sec. 8-Lysko, BH 201 Sec. 5-Taylor, BU 204 Math 14-Calculus III Sec. 6-Zwicker-BH 106 Sec. 1-Fairchild, BU 300 Sec. 7-Taylor, BU 204 Sec. 2-Lysko, BH 201 Math 12-Calculus IT Sec. 3-BU 109 Sec. 1-8tone, BH 203 E.E. 30--System Theory I Sec. 2-Muckenfuss, BH 207 Sec. 1-Chang, N 012 Sec. 3-Canjar', BU 109 Sec. '2-Gurubasavaraj, N 116 AOP Math 08- Precalculus Mathematics-Yeater, BU 106 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 6:-9:00..11:00 a.m. Economics tO-Introduction to Macroeconomics, sec. 1-Prosper; SS 115 Economics 141-Monetary Economics-Phaup, SS 117 German 10-Basic GermanI-Warde, HU 116 Spanish 10-Basic Spanish I, sec. 1-Qualtere, HU 110 Biology 16-Introduction to Biology I-Tobiessen, Schadler Sec. 1, 2, 3, 4-SS016 Biology 66-Sex and Sexuality-Lambert, SS 112 Chemistry tO-Fundamental Chemistry I Sec. 1-Hayes, BU 204 Sec. 2-Weick, BU 204 Sec. 3-8caife, BU 204 Sec. 4-Katahira, BU 204 Sec. 5-Katahira, BU 204 Geology 51-oceanography-Zimmerman, BH 102 Math 1~rthogonal Functions and Boundary Values-Bick, BH 106 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (For Class of 1968, Sec. 1 )-Maleki, BH 201 Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II-8chick, N 012 E.S. 10-Mechanics I, Sec. 3-Burke, BU 106 E.S. 20-Mechanics 11-Panlilio, N 222 E.S. 26-Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer-Aubrey, BH 200 C.E. 142-Soil Mechanics-Harlow, BU 300 E.E. 143-Electromagnetic Engineering I-Chang, BU 109 C.S. 34-Cobol and Information Processing-schwarz, BH 203 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 6-2:00-4:00 p.m. Arts 70-European Art from Rembrandt to Romanticism-Robbins, AB 202 Hebrew 10-Basic Hebrew I-Heckelman, HU 110 Philosophy 77-Experiences of Technology-Patrik, HU 112 Sociology 39-;Sociologyof the Family-Kaplan, SS 117 Sociology 163-History of Sociological Thought-Lyng, SS 113 Accounting tO-Financial Accounting (T. Th. section)-Hurley, BH 207 Psychology 24-Social Psychology-Lipton, PY 213 Psychology 48-Clinical Models of Psychotherapy !-Dowling, PY 102 Psychology 50-Educational Psychology-Girdner, PY 204 C.S. tO-Perspectives on Computers-E. Robbins, BH 106 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7-9:00 - 11:00 a.m. Latin 130-Catullus and Horace-8orum, HU 110 Economics 49-Contemporary Economics Problems-8chaffer-8S113 English 22-Major American Authors {The American Renaissance)-Wineapple, F.nJ 114 . History 22-Civil War· and Reconstruction-Dudden, SS 115 ·History 162-Communism in Latin America-Bristol, SS 112 French 131-Introduction to the Study of French Literature-Coppay, HU 116 Spanish 146-Special Topic in Spanish Literature: Nineteenth Century Spanish Novel-Krebs, HU 117 Political Science 46-Soviet Law and PoliticalJustice-8harlet, SS 117 Chemistry 30-0rganic Chemistry I Sec. 1-McGahey, BU 204 Sec. 2-Hull, BU 204E.S. 11-Engineering Graphics-Harlow, BU 300 E.E. 33-Analysis and Design of Electric Circuits, Sec. 1 & 2-Hassib, BH 200 FRID~Y, DECEMBER 7-2:00-4:1)9 p.m. English 26-Tragedy-Heinegg, HU 115 French 12-Intermediate French-Coppay, HU 116 , Philosophy 12-Philosophical Problems-Baker, HU 117 Chemistry.118-Inorganic Chemistry II-scaife, N 116 E.S. 22-Sctence of Engineering Materials {9:30 section)-Milillo, BU 109 C.S. 37-8tructured Programming, Sec. 1 & 2-Hannay, BH 201 Tbe following courses have common exams with the evening division: MONDAY, DECEMBER 3-6:30-8:30 p.m. E.S. 41-Electric Circuits Sec. 1-Rudko, BU 204 Sec. 2-Craig, BU 204 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4-6:30a8:30 p.m. E.S. 18-Introduction to Digital Computers-Itani, BU 204 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER ~:30-6:30 p.m. C.S. 131-Introduction to Compilers-Williains, BU 204 C.S. 136-Advanced Programming Techniques-Wong, BH 'Ji)7

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Noremher /5, 1984 ------ FolllldtJ ·OI llnlon Colletf~ 1817_~--~- Speakers Forum Praised Concordiensis would like to commend this year's Speakers Forum for its success last Friday night, November 9. On that evening, comedian-juggler Michael Davis performed before one of the largest crowds Memorial Chapel has housed in a very, very long time. With posters and advertising in Con· cordiensis ·and even Metroland magazine, the Speakers Forwn made Davis' performance known to the entire community. At a mere $1 ticket cost, students were treated to 1 1 14 hours of juggling, jokes and comical tunes. Davis was a wonderful break in the otherwise tiresome · routine that upcoming finals are bringing upon the student body. Comedians have always done well at Union, as audience size invariably has shown. Tony Randall, Robert Klein, Billy Crystal and the like have drawn in large crowds in the past few years at Union. What is unfortunate is that Union can not get more of these performers during the year. It has been argued that the Speakers Forum should stick to employing speakers who would appeal to a student's \mind.\ However, there are many other college organizatim1s that can and do present such speakers of not~. The lAM colloquium series, the College's various academic departments and so forth all sponsor lecturers during the year. However, there really is no organization beyond the Speakers Forum which can and will bring in entertainers. The turnout at the Davis event shows the demand for such entertainers, yet the Speakers Forum supposedly cannot get these performers; it must provide \speakers\ almost exclusively, as its nam.e suggests. However, this Forum should consider providing more entertainers during the year; ap- parently the student body wants and even needs them. Skell·er Hours The students at this institution are often described as apathetic. As a result of this image, the student voice is often ignored. Once ignored, the ad- ministration then claims that it would have wanted to take the student opinion into account but the voice was too smah to be heard and too indistinct. One wonders how loud we must shout before the administration can no longer deny that the student body as a whole is dissatisfied with an administrative decision. Student body president Steve Benson and . IFC president Roger Harris have both met with Dean Massa and Jan Grey over the issue of the Rathskeller hours. Yes, the issue is becoming a bit tiresome. It is exactly what the administration is hoping; after a while the students grow tired of complaining and soon forget what it was they were complaining about. For the administration to let the issue slide is to slap the student body in the face. We are not children. It is about time that the administration begins to take our opinions seriously. Yes, perhaps the Skeller will have to be closed once the New York State drinking age is raised to 21. It has not been raised yet. The Skeller is the one place on the campus where students can completely relax and forget about their studies for a few hours a couple of times a week. Above all, it is on campus. We make one last plea to the administration to reevaluate their decision to keep Skeller closing hours at 1:00 on the weekends. Do not drive us off-campus. This is a serious issue and may have terribly serious consequences. Above all, do not underestimate the student body. Each Thursday at noon the Concorcliensis is dropped off at Carnegie. PLEASE help carry a stack or two into Carnegie on your way in if possible. Thank you. • Later Hours Still.Sought ·To the Editor: The time has come for us, the Student Forwn, to speak out. For two months we have followed all channels av.ailable · to us in pursuing extended hours at the Pub and Rathskeller. While continuing to acknowledge its willingness to listen.. the administration has not exhibited a willingess to compromise. The arguments brought before the ad- . ministration have not been arbitrary nor trivial. There is ·more to our demands than \we want\. We recognize .the college's intent to remain an institution . ·for learning but we also stred8 the need for social gathering places on campus. One o'clock last call results in many students heading off-campus and although Jan Gray may not . feel that '''we should take responsibility for what people do'' (after closing}, we disagree. The danger of students driving off-campus (drunk) is greatly increased and the Schenectady com- munity is subjected to an influx of students (neighbors of Slapshots complain of the in- creased noise at 1: 15 a.m. on weekends). Furthermore, we believe the administrat.. ·'1 should recognize that much of student social-life does, in fact, revolve around drinking establislunents and that in a high~pressure academic at- mosphere students need a place to go out and relax. When they don't go out until 11:00 p.m. because they are studying, two hours is not sufficient. In ad;. dition, there must be an alternative to fraternity parties and off-campus bars for Union's social life. The administration must learn that students do not go home at 1:00 a.m. After extensive efforts on the · part of the Student ForUIIl (as well as the IFC and individual students) it is clear that the administr.:ation will not respond. Our obligation as Student Forum members is to secure the interests of the student body. We will be heard. The Student Forum Violation of Privacy To the Editor: On Monday, November 5, 1984 room inspections were con· ducted in North College. Unfortunately (for North residents), not all the residents of said building were informed about the event. Because of a lack of -notice from the Residence Life office and in turn from the North College residence advisors, students did not know their rooms were to be \entered\ and looked through. There were no notices in- forming North residents on some floors that the inspections were to occur. Apparently, the inspections were originally to be un- dertaken the preceding Friday, November 2, but because of a time constraint, North was not gotten to on that day. In any case, neither dates were posted on every floor. It was not until days later that some North To the Editor: A past editorial in the Con- cordiensis urged students to be more energy-conscious; turn off the lights when you leave the room; to turn off the TV if you are not watching it. These suggestions are great. They hopefully will decrease our tuition as the article said. But lights and TV s are minor energy consumers compared to the amount of energy that is spent on heating classrooms, dorms, and activity rooms in Carnegie. Every class I go to has the windows wide open. This means that money spent on energy to produce the heat in All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publicati- on. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon recauest. Letter~· to the editor and t·ommentorie.\· do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis . residents even learned of the inspections. Now obviously anyone who has lived in Union dorms knows of room inspections, but that is not the point here. The actual date •of inspections has always been told to students a head of time, a courtesy that Residence Life has always afforded . students. The inspections are not being contested for they are strictly for the noting of damage and safety purposes; both plausible concerns. · However, a sense of privacy is disturbed each time these inspections occur .. Students are willing to accept inspections if given notice, but not when student~ are not even given the courtesy of such information. It is an unsettling notion to discover after the fact that strangers have been wandering through one's room. Dormitory life is difficult enough, with the Hot Classes this school is going right out of the windows. So, to decrease our tuition, we think that the school should turn down the € ' ·.. . :;;····· O ·tt ..... t· o· · · r· ··· < : ' l·· ' ' , .. ·'···o \' adjustment to a pseudo comft munallife style, without having Residence Life being so in- sensitive to the issue. It has been argued that notice before the fact allows ·students to hide any illegal (by dorm standards) equipment. Again this is not the point. The concern is for violation of privacy without due notice! Residence Life should seriously consider its lack of communication with the student body in this matter. ObviouslyResidenceLife is not out to tread on students' \turf but its activities do not show such. Privacy is very important to many students and the least the Residence Life office could 'do would be to take that into consideration. When Residence Life conducts room inspections, the student body should and must be informed in advance. Name withhelabyirequest heat, thus decreasing the energy spent on heat. Student Environmental Alliance 7. Editors-in .. cbief Marcy Burstmer ;'Ga:Vle Rosenfeld New.s Editors Saraf! Cruderini. Judie Steinhardt Features Editors David li'it2gerald, l:letsy Treitl~r Commentary Page Editor · - · , , · ·· · David F'rarttz Arts EditoPs Brian Lamt. LindtrRaffaele ·· · Campus Page Editors , · JilU~attftnah; Karen Ruga Sports Edit9rs . ·Paul Kutker, Lynn o:Brien Advertising Editor Heidi Rosen AssociateAovertising·Editor · LaurenSobel Daphne Chigas, LartyKamimky

t CONCORIJIENSI.r.,: Nm·rmher 15, 1984 Page 11 COMMENTARIES Finance Committee Responds 'Profiteeri:Qg' in Health To the Editor: The purpose of this letter is to clarify some of the points made in last week's editorial entitled ''Bigger Budget\ and to elaborate on some of the reasoning behlnd ·the actions of demands of the student population. Our present budget does not provide adequate revenues to meet the ~merging needs of existing organizations and the requests from new or petitioning organizations. to improve our performance. · However, it is poor budgeting ·.·.c·o-mp. ' an· ·y T' ra·nsactions procedure to rely on the carry ~•• over, instead we should the finance Corrunittee. \ It is the duty of the Finance Committee to allocate the Student Activities Budget between all active, funded organizations in a manner that is as equitable and efficient as possible. Guidelines have been set up to· eliminate wasteful spending and to insure a distribution that is not biased. It is also the duty of the Finance Committee to meet the The Finance Committee does have the ability to say \no\. Last year we trimmed the funding requests from the 52 gr-oups who submitted budgets by over 100,000 dollars. This was necessary in order to stay within our budget constraint. Our \carryover\ has been severely drained by groups wh9 overspent during last year and by our own financial com- mitments from last spring. It is in these areas that we are trying generate sufficient revenues to insure fiscal security. It is [or these and certain other economic reasons that I intend to propose that the Student Activity Fee be raised by a modest amount. I urge interested parties to attend our next Finance Committee meeting to be held on Sunday, November 18 at 5:00 in the Forum Roomon the fourth floor of Carnegie Hall. Br-ian C.A. Laux V.P. for Finance Anything bothering you? Make yourself heard! Write a letter to the editor Concordiensis Needs:· Writers, photographers, artists, and poets~ Su,bmit your name, box number and phone number to Concordiensis, Box 2577. HELP US· HELP THEM Give Canned Goods to The Alpha Phi Alpha Feed A Family Drive No one should he hungry on Thanksgiving! Cans can be deposited in Carnegie Hall, Richmond, or North. Sponsored by the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Incorporated. Classes driving you up a tree? You're 'not alone! - By JACK ANDERSON and JOSEPH SPEAR WASHINGTON-Auditors for the federal Department .of Health and Human Services have uncovered evidence of \profiteering\ by the nation's largest provider of life- sustaining kidney dialysis treatment. The evidence was gathered after the firm, National Medical Care Inc., of Waltham, Mass., sought an exemption late last year from federal rules prohibiting sales practices that unnecessarily inflate the cost of health care. The story is told in a still- secret report by the HHS in- spector general. The auditors found that one of National Medical Care's subsidiaries, Erika inc., sold dialysis sup- plies to another subsidiary, the Artificial Kidney Center of Queens, N.Y., at prices ranging from 22 percent to 56 percent above the going rate. As a result, according to the auditors, Erika made an excess profit of $181,671 on that 1977 deal alone. The IG report also found that during 1981, Erika netted $4.3 million in excess profits from sales to its, sub- sidiaries. National Medical Care Vice President Timothy I. McFeeley, meanwhile, urged HHS not to release the . information gathered by the inspector general. His concerns are easy to understand. For example: -The company claimed that Erike charged National Medical Care's clinics an average of $21.93 less for ·dialysis machine filters than it charged unrelated clinics. The auditors disagreed. They found that clinics within the corp9·rate family were charged anywhere from $38.08 to $83 more per filter. That led to an excess profit of $1.3 million. -The company claimed its clinics paid only 84 cents more for blood-line sets from its Erika subsidiary. The auditors found that the markup averaged $8.46, for an excess profit of $271,693 on that item. In his letter to the IG, McFeeley called the audit \a colossal waste of tax money.\ Yet, if HHS had granted the exemption allowing the higher . prices resulting from National Medical Care's deals with its subsidiaries, those prices would have affected the federalty established reimbursement rate for kidney dialysis treat- ments nationwide. KHOMEINI WATCH: The aging and ailing Iranian ruler, Ayatollah Khomeini., has silenced observers who had questioned his health by emerging for televised ap- pearances looking hale and hearty. But intelligence officials have made sport of predicting Khomeini's health status, and here are some tidbits gleaned from their reports: -Khomeini's heart specialist has m~de several visits to his famous patient in recent weeks. These visits · have been relatively easy to track for the simple reason that the doctor must cancel aU of his regular appointments when he is summoned to Kh9meini's side. -several reports assert that Khomeini suffers from severe prostate -problems, a condition not uncommon for an 84-year- old man. But the leader's personal physician has reportedly joked that Khomeini \could handle another wife,\ perhaps suggesting that the problem isn't as serious as reported. -Under no illusions of im- mortality, Khomeini recently penned a secret will. It was widely believed that the will contained the name of Khomeini's choice of a suc- cessor. Out sources believe that a high official sneaked a peak at the document-and was disappointed. Tbe will named no successor. COVERT AID: In what may be its first venture into covert military operations since preparations for the attack on Pearl Harbor 43 years ago, the Japanese government has taken a modest part in the guerrilla war against the Sandinista regime in Nicaragua. A high-ranking contra leader in the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa told our reporter Jon Lee Anderson the details. The source is an intelligence agent for the Miskito Indian rebel force based in Honduras. He said that from February to June of this year six: Japanese military instructors had been sent by their government to train commandos for missions against the Sandinista regime in Nicaragua. The Japanese trained 100- specially selected Miskito warriors in guerrilla tactics. \They taught hand-to-hand combat, martial arts, and how to make booby traps,\ the source said. MISSING MAPS: Internal audits from the Defense Mapping Agency, the Pentagon arm charged with supplying aerial, land and ocean charts to the services, show the agency has been careless with, and even misplaced, sensitive war- reserve maps. And as innocuous as it may sound, any commander will tell you just how hard it is to fight a battle without a map. In a spot check of eight Central American hot spots, the map agency was found deficient in all eight. One source reports that during th~ Grenada in- vasion, ground troops had to reply on aerial maps for three days before the correct charts came in. In another case during the invasion, Marines used 19th- century maps because it would · have breached the security of the super-secret mission to radio for updated charts. Future Success The future depends on how you man the present, and not on how the present mans you. Success is not something but someone who enters our lives from the back door and makes us worthy of life like never before. -Maria Lomotan

., Pagel2 CONCORD/ENS/~: Nm•emht•r /5, 1984 SPEAKERS The Siena College Speakers' · Committee is pleased to an- nounce that on Wednesday, November 14 at 8 p.m., Christine Craft will be speaking at Siena College. The topic of Ms. Craft's presentation will be \Is Television News Show Business?\ All interested parties can contact The Speakers' Com- niittee at 783-2330. Tickets are available for $1 .(Advance) and $2 if purchased at the door. Teach In on Central.America on Nov. 15 at 7:30 p.m. in HU 117. Topics to be discussed: The Church and Sanc- tuary for Central American Refugees, speaker, Pastor Jay Ekman. ... Militarism in Central America, speaker, Dr.\'Suzanne Jonas. ... What a war in Central America Would Mean to Union Students,·\' speaker, Dr. Jim McClellan, sponsored by US Out of Central America, Co- sponsored by Arts Club, BLAS, Campus Ministry, Oxfam, and UCAM. \The Death Penalty: · Some Questions and Answers\·- Human Rights Discussion\ Table, 12:30-1:30 p.m. Nov. 15 meeting in the Pub. Bring a lunch and bring a 'friend-all are welcome. CLUB NEWS Newman Folk Group-- Swtday, November 18, 6:30 p.m. meets with Friar Paul in St. John's Church to prepare for 7:30 p.m. Mass. New members welcome. Newman Bible Study-- Monday, November 19 at 4 .p.m. with Sr. Joan in Religious Programs Office. Newman Weekly Meeting & Social-Monday, November 19 at 8 p.m., 4th floor Lowtge, Carnegie. Tutorial Program--Any student interested in tutoring Reading one haur a week to primarily second graders of St. John the Evangelist School, please contact Peter Fischer; 374-3243. Social Commitee Meeting Monday, Nov. 19 at 7:30p.m. in Conference Room A of third floor Carnegie. AU are welcome. CLASSIFJEDS Student interested in typing, please contact 6227 (on campus) ar 439-0817 (Home). Typing: term papers, theses, etc. dane by executive secretary. $1 .per page. Call Judy at 399-3383. Expert typing, $1 per page. Call Marge at 377-8345 . . Need a typist? Contact Kathy Shecky, 399-4656 in the late afternoon. WRUC {89.7 FM) Sports Presents: Hockey at North Adams ...... ~ Tonight 7 p.m. Football Playoffs ........... Sat~, 11:45 a.m. Hoops at North Adams ... Nov. 27,7:15 p.m. Hockey vs. Norwich ......... Nov. 30, 7 p .. m .. . . 'RUC will also carry All football playoff games Next Weekend-Nov. 23 & 24 NCAA football semifinals Nov. 24, 11:45 a.m. or Empire Cup hockey ..... a •• Nov .. 23,6 p.m. Nov. 24, TBA Sportsline .......... Mon\ Wed .. , Fri., 7:30 . The Social Committee is pleased to announce the dates for WINTER CARNIVAL . The Open Door 'Q~: \ I , I t :.~· 128 Jay Street Schenectady ·g: • I '., 1 •, - · · o. • • • , ' 0 •1, • \I. ' 'I,., ..:,Q.Q~Q. Q.G QQ Q,G9 G{:JY 1 .1' \' '1\ •1\ ''I' ~~~~- 1 '1\ ''I''!' 1 1' .• ' Crew Night in the Skeller. Nov. 16 at 10:00 p.m. Raffling off Stroh's items. Tickets $1 on sale all week. Two calculators found in Physics labs or classrooms. See the Physics secretary in S&E N308 to claim. TYPING:TERM PAPERS, THESES, E'.PC. $LOO per page. Call \MARILOU\ EVENINGS ONLY at 382-5668. Typing: 399-0165. On November 22 .between 1 and 6 p.m., 250 volunteers will serve appraximately 3,000 Thanksgiving dinners for Capitol District residents at the First Presbyterian Church in Albany. If you wish to tie a part of this event please call 434-0131 for further infarmation. The Film Committee presents on 11/16 - 11/18 \Stripes\ at 7, 9 11 and on 11/14, \Notorious\ at 7:30, 10 p.m. All tickets .$1. Films shown in SS016. PERSONALS AMY SOLOMON-You were the best cheerleading co• captain I've ever had ... I'U miss you tons. Love, Sue l{A VE YOU HUGGED YOUR NUHP TODAY? Rod, Remember, I'll buy the ticket if you get the popcorn! - Gayle Bri-baby--Too bad your sneakers are gone. The smell ·would have instantly destroyed Plymouth State! Good luck Saturday! Love, Amy Feb. 1-3, 1985 Please Mark Your Calendar FOUR SEASONS CHINESE REST1URJ}NT ~ ~~ ~ T -Shirt Contest Design aT -shirt for Winter Carnival, Feb.. 1-3. 1985. Please submit all entries to Mrs. Marra in Student Activities by Dec. 1. *Prize: $10'gift certificate to Bookstore* rt' Phone: 393-5440/393-5441 \ . ~~-$ Seaso 118 \ Specialize· in Cantonese, ..: Szechuan & H unail ~ 0 .Hours: Sun- Thu.- 11:30-10:00 g Fri.- Sat. 11: 30-ll: 00 Ta.ke Out of or Eat in We're in Walking Distance We prepare our foods with •.• Just a Little Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot of experience ~ ( r f. c J. s \ F T a L SJ c

9 I El I INI I 6:1 .~ { t. :e CONCORDIENS/S, NoJ'l'mher 15. 198.f. Page 13 PERSONALS Amy & Sue, CONGRATULATIONS!!.!! We hope you have as .great a squad to cheer with as we had. We love you all! Keep up the high standard of excellence. Love, Sue& Amy Ka:-- Thanks for being such a great friend. Love, Aim Traci; Margie, Kelly, Loren- Thanks for cheering me up. You guys are the greatest! Love, Aim TotheDB'soflJC--Well, even though we're far spread ... ! still love you all! !.! Happy 3rd an- niversary. Love, TPL, President To all who bought a lightbulb last week: Thanks. Zimbabwe is totally FRESH. Unga bunga ungaturiga tWlga yango. (Know what I mean). Forever yours, swippen iri the Ttoutbeck - Gerhard Ha. Ha Karen--Mondale LOST!.! Prepare for another four years of righteous rule by God's chosen president!! Congrats to the new Phi Alphas! ! ! Get Psyched. The sisters of Delta Gamma Congratlilations to Pete and Kirt for becoming Phi Delt Pledges! ... K.B.M.R. CONG RA TULA TIONS TO THE SDT PLEDGES! There are many good times to come! Love, your sisters To MOT, Happy birtl).day--get spyched!! Your partner in Crime John, You can smile now .. .it's. Thursday! Hey Tex: ·See you for Happy Hour this Friday? Maybe a movie? Definitely a football game! Give me a call if you need a break from studying. Get psyched for vacation ... there's no place like home. Luv you tons, GOOBER Dave--My hand stopped shaking, am I back on the job? My .stripes are still glowing ... Save that feather, it may be worth something some day. I guess this is the start ·of WWIII...Remember, CNS&Y say it best. Love, Me J-\If I had one of those in my car, I'd be on it all the time\ ... \Mom I'll be coming home again this weekend. I've just been having entirely teo much fun! \ Tunafish forever! Love, J. Gina and lise, CONGRAT- S!!!!! You'll make great Tri- Delt pledges. Gina, send me an angel!!!!! Love, Jimmy ' To Dim and MOT, Happy birthday to the both of you!! Your Sisters Tri Delta pledges: We love you! All 3X 3X 3X OF YOU. Dearest SIB, Watch out for Chester's tires. Ha, Ha, War- mest regards, Magoo To the ladies of 700 South: ... Looking forward to 2 more amazing terms ... Love ya, Ys th. (A. Bland) To everyone:: I LIKE MY PIN-THANK YOU! Another 2 a.m. meeting so Crew Night in the SKELLER Sponsored By STROH'S Friday, November 12 at 10:00 p.m. · $1 Raffle Tickets sold in Carnegie & from Crew Members PRIZES: Beer Lightw, Pool Table Lights, Mirrors, Hats, T·shirts, Beachballs and more! that I can' wish you a happy birthday properly? Happy birthday Brian! All my love, Sarah ' Congratulations U football players! Get psyched for this weekend-we'll be cheering for you! Dear Paver, I love you and miss you dearly!! Can't wait to see you. Things with me are going well. I'll be ill'touch soon, I promise. ·Hugs and kisses, Thelma Baker A.M. The eyes have it-you're gorgeous! Send me your lef- tovers. I'm getting tired of being seen around. -Ace Happy birthday Shortstuff!!! I miss you and I love you. Have a great birthday and I'll see you soon. Love always, Julie Dear Brian, HaPP.Y bir- thday ... Hope it was a good one. Hope all your wishes came true ... Love ya, Lisa . To Ay & Ann, Congrats on a great cheering season. Do it, do it alright! Love Suz Lisa, Love from afar. Very afar! ! ! I miss you very much. \Je retournai toute de suite, France Hey wool, thanx muchly. love ya and let's keep bumping into each other. Love Dan Moishe, Gismnasium, you know ...... and all that good stuff. Stay out of purple rain. Yom chuledet sama'ach Your roomie. Sunshine: Get psyched for a fantastic and well deserved weekend! Smilie Dear Lis, What until Thur- sday nite Love ya, Me Dear Lori, I'll miss you. Have the time of your life. Love, Randi Raina-Go home-SDT Dear Kara, Nice blue and white afghan. Love, Randi & Lisa · HAPPY GRADUATION, JAKE & SARAH!!!! Jake, Only 2 more weeks! I know you can't wait-but we will miss yoti! Now please relax and BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! PREPARE FOR: GREPSYCH • TESf.N TAPE' LIBRARY • REINFORCEMENT TEST • HOMESTUDY PAC,.;ET Call Days, !Ov~nings & Weekends w~-H ''!!JA~N cL CENTER LTD TEST PREPI\RATION SPECI4LISTS SINCE 1938 · Cheer leading· Tryouts TODAY, Nov. 15th • 4:30p.m. in Alumni Gym All are welcome enjoy! Congrats and test wishes from all of us. Mike and Sarah, How does it feel to be (almost) graduated?! ? Rich G-- This is the perfect opportunity to tell you how much I love yo1:1. I know we haven't known each other for long, but I can't wait to get to know you better ....... ATTENTION-Adam Helf- and's telephone number in the directory is incorrect. For all those trying to contact him, his number is 6616. Dear Aunti Ern, Hate Kansas, hate you, taking the dog and leaving op. the first cyclone fo Oz. Sincerely, Dorothy Dear Jill, Hang in there. I'm glad you're singing down town! ! ! ! Love ya PER- SONALLY YOURS, Randi Pledges - of DDO: Congratulations! Get psyched for a great year. We are! Love, the sisters Dear 'Partner', Sorry I'm late! The oven lives, but E.S. may not. Drop by any time, bring pretzels, forget homework. -semi-Criminal No.2 Heidi~Here's to our new found friendship! I'll miss you this winter, but I'll have a cocoa and schnC\pps for you. Who's going to wake me at 4 a.m.? - Liz a Mike-l still zip the ball. All my love, Warren Hey TB-Bumblebees are everywhere--What are we gonna do? Sting them back!! See ya, HD WENCH: I won't do it without you! Well, since I'm going to be a lawyer, I'm sure I can manage to find a station wagon for you and Indiana Jones. Well, .. do we have to say: NA NA! WINTER TERM, ... the term that, ... Andrea: GET OFF THE PHONE ... Way to go women's ruggers. It was a hell of a game and we showed them what we are made of. Chris you scored every night the week before, why couldn't you score in the game? Get psyched for the spring and our mid-winter scrimmage. AI, I was waiting at the rink for you at 1:00. Where were you? -steve To our new pledges, We're glad to have you!!! The Sisters of DG Kibbles! Can't wait to beat on you! Lightman--we'll have some glom bagels waiting for you, and maybe four beers or so. Will you ever find out what bousheeshee means? CLUB HEADS: Advertise your meeting in the Classifieds. Last Week's Answers Due to limited space and excessive demand, Concordiensis will be charging 25¢ per personal request as of Winter term. The money collected will be donated at the end of the year to a charitable organization. All orders will be handled directly through the Concordy office on the fourth floor of Carnegie Hall. Please pick up order forms at the Box Office and bring them to the office in an en- v:elope with the total amount en- closed. All orders submitted unaccompanied by the required fee will be refused. We ask that length not exceed four I ines. All personals that are obscene or otherwise of- fensive wi II be refused at the discretion of the editors. >I . '

Page t..a CONCORDIENS/5;, Nm·emher 15. 1984 f\;··.·.ru·.. ···F··' · t· • • .. .l r r.; .hu ;;. .,. ·'i\2b'7\i-~ ·;,;,a;, ;,,q ·' ;•;., \·3 t;- ''\'+i. 4¥- ;;y HR!A.:\l L..:.CX . \rts Eilltor *E \W !II+ if?!! fti &!131 ,,... ++ ~~ -.,e cast ot Jacques Bre11s Altve ana Well Nov 15 17 . :n a scene from the production play1ng at the Nott on '!'here is a tragedy tran.spinng ,m the union College campus 0.nd hardly anyone even realizes ;t, Something very beautiful and :ery special is now threatened :Jy extinction. Coffeehouse. the institution at Union which brings vriginal and folk music co campus. is falling prey to that ~ver-pl'esent evil: apathy. !:'here has been very little in- terest shown by students who are badly needed to run all facets of Coffeehouse. \:venin!-{ was nu ;;xceplwn . ;3efore a near capacity crowd oi ,;even people I llOt llciUding nimself 1 ~\1ark Rabin filled the Cabaret Room with a .:lmat- tering of his many musica1 talents. Rabin played six dif- ferent instruments, sang a selection of songs which were a mixture of his own compositions and of unique interpretations of many popular classics, and !Jfovided comic relief. He proved again that he is a polished professional, a veteran of over 15 years of performing and composing. It was Rabin's seventh trip to Union in as many years. Hopefully he will have some more listeners when he comes again. iV\ountebonks kicks off season co . u 0 A' ~@ d W rn I~ to~re~ ~s {~ ~ ~ve ~an · .. e~ • (i There are many respon- sibilities for the managers of Coffeehouse. Acts must be auditioned and booked, which means hours spent on the phone and listening to tapes of artists. · Shows must be scheduled and staffed by waitresses and waiters. Food must be ordered, prepared, and served. The Cabaret Room must be set up beforehand and cleaned af- terwards. Sound like a lot of work? It beeomes a great deal easier when there are plenty of people involved. In fact, it can be very enjoyable and provide some valuable experience. Contemporary folk and original music are always seeking vehicles for expressioN and exposure and Coffeehouse provides a forwn for an artist to present his work, to entertain and to involve his audience in the show. Even if you do not have the time to become fu- volved in Coffeehouse you can surely set aside a couple of hours on some Friday evening to experience it. It will be worth your while. Don't let Cof- feehouse disappear. By JOY RUNYON §taff It is an unwritten rule that everv theatrical production has ltS unsung ·•star'' WhO makes an otherwise good production into a very good production. The :\<iountebanks' performance of Jacques Brei is' Alive and Wen anrl Living in Paris. which runs through November 17 in the :.Jott Memoriai Theatre. is no ~xception to the rule. In this musical, Anne Carl added so much to the production that it ·.vo1lid be a sin not to mention iler specially .. \tls. Carl. without a aoubt. had the strongest and ,nost refined voice out o! the \cvhole cast, foilowed closelv bv \ndre Enceneat. :vis. Carl f;iaved ller roie 'Nith such dar1tv of exoression that 1t ·s~sn,.t in the feast difficult for lhe audience w know exactlv .hat she intended to convev. ; ler smging voice rane dear and true on everv note. She 'altered only once. when she ;ave a slight chuckle when one · ·o~st member acc1dentallv sent :,n aerosol can flvmg from its )lace. A.side from this slight ;uss oi control. :VIs. Carl was an :;osolute asset to the musical . md gave it a real boost. \lost of the actors had singing · ·otces rangmg from fa1r to very ·.:ood. with the exception of two .vho had poor voices. As a , whole. though. the '!Otces '.>orked together to strengthen each other in the cast numbers. The harmonies usually worked out very nicely: pleasing to the ear. tight-knit. and com- plementary. The solos. with the exception 11! one ur two. were very eloquent and stirring, showing an impressive range of emotions that followed each t)ther logically. Two solos that particularly stick in this writer's mind are \Next.\ performed by Steven Brown, and \Jackie by Adam Rosman. Brown sang his melancholy piece about the sieazy loss of his virginity in an army-sponsored brothel with il poignant sadness resentment that made the :;udience understand precisely .vhv this expenence was so demoralizinl! and de~rading to t~RPCI-!!il& •:;;:;:; .: · ;; .. · the human spirit. Rosman bounced around energetically in his piece, and his enthusiasm was instrumental in com- manding the audience's at- tention 1 as it also did in his first solo \Mathilde\). Also induded m the cast: Julie Breslow, Brown. ~vls. Carl. Rachel Etfenbein, EncenEat, LeAta .J acksor, Tracey Kaufman, Eddy Remy, Rosman, and ~slie Shamiladeh t who was absent the mght of review and was replaced by Director Diane Sadak1. The set was completely ap- propriate for this musical. There were props of every size, \haoe. color and texture strewn a<.T~ss the stage. These served to excite the eyes and add to the <.'i brant movement of the actors. T'oe :~et aave a sense of movement imd was aimost as energetic as the actors them- selves. Hardlv a detail was ~pared in transforming the round stage into \\the attic of a .~oon-to-be-town-down theater.·' DPspite the seemingly iumhazard clutter which is an \ld attic. it seemed lo be ·home ' for the actors who loved the old thf;later and were deeoiv saddened bv the fact that it ~~as to be condemned. Boxes uf plastic flowers. dress ilununies, ancient newspaper dippin~s. furniture from the :::ariv 1900's. trunks of bows and hats· and feathers. oid theatre- makeup Jars and bottles-ail :~xtended to the audience the reality of a time gone by. a time when this theater was in its hey- dey. a time when actors were really actors. The musical itself was a last ~athering of the theater's home actors in honor of their old friend and their everlasting bond because of this old friend. Although they are heartbroken over their theater's fate, they are gathering for a last frenzied orgy with this old friend. The orgy, however, isn't always frenzied: sometimes, it is like a group of people sitting with an 4'ld friend who is terminally ill dnd fated to death. There would be a happy, peppy song, then a slow. downcast song: the moods alternated but were effective in ~~apturing the meaning . The end of a good thing :;1. por·if~Oi ijo Otf ~iroo'iograrp;~s ibJy g rush ~r·(as·i A~~r:J MacWeeney~ ·~Nrhoch were made in ~re~and ~rom 1965-72, woU !Oe on view ~hrough December ~n the 1obby of 1he Arts Bui~ding. The rporiffolio is one of several iclonaied_ ~o ~he_ CoUege ~Y Edward ~· 'an A. Shapn·~~~~~\'«:.~~~2. ! _j always comes. This theater met its end in a graceful splendor of celebration of memories and unity. The musical ended with the actors' proclamation that they would stay together despite the death of the friend that brought them together. And thus was the end of a most enjoyable night of theatre. A toast of congratulations to the Mountebanks for a job well done and a fine production. l·l t'RINCt:AHD 111£ fif.VOI.IITlOM Purple Rain- WB•• 2•2 ll!mlC£ 17 The shows themselves are usually very good. Last Friday F\' /. /\ ~IKGSTUII !!om in w U.S.A.- Co!wnbl0il\' 8 J ·• TINA TURNEl! 17 ~.Albums l'riv•te D.ncer-C.puol•• •· ! mi£Y I.£WI5 A!IID 49 TIIEN£WS ~j)O!'b:- OuysaLJe• <>8 'fm FO!NTEII 11 :;mms a...lt Cur- P!.ne.IRCA •• 10'9 Jl.ll.lii!GU:SW ~ 1100 Bel Air Pl.oce- Columbia li·U UONEUliCIII£ 48 ~~SiowDown-Momwn•• '2\0 MV!D OO'IYIE : oru~P'<- EMJ-Amenc. tJ ·10 TilE WOMi!N IH RED 4 Soundlndc- Morown !4•15 Tll£11!11£ l:Z ;.,. c.-m c.:..Je- WJl• \ 5-lJ CHICAGO ! 9 Oliagc 17-FuDMooniWB' !6•18 l'IICIOELEElONES 2 ThcMa~-WB !7•12 JDHNWAITI 12 No Brakes- EMJ-Amcnc.o• 21· ZHWISTO SISVEII 12 S...yHungry-Arhlnlll .. 22·26 EVERIJr!IROTHERS 2 Ell 84- MerauyiPolyGrm. 23·21 BILL':fiOOI. Rcl>el Y cll- auysa~u•• 24·;2 russ AnimalJ:Ie- Mcr:u:y 25·22 SCANDAL Tho w.ma.. Columb.a' 43 12 u;·>J IQ.'I'OHJOIIH 12 ~~~H..m-Gdl'm• 27·38 D!D The l..ol m Line- WB' -'3·19 IIWIA FlOSS S\'$A\\'}'-RCA l2 4 l9·24SHEIIAE. lO lbeG!omorouaUfe- WB 30·«1 ll!GHTIWIGDI 23 Midnight Madneoo- MCA .. Jl·lll RAYT 19 Out ol~ Cdlar- AWntiC 00 3l·'\OSAM IWiRIS Sam Hams- MO!OWn 76 4 J7•-oQUEENSRVCIIE The Waming-EMl-Amcm 38•44 lli!CIWS 6 ~ 6Ut1- Arisr.a ~.II STiYIEIIAY VAUGIWI ~~ Couldn't Scandlhe Weatbtt- Eo.: 41 '45 SAMMY lllGAR 4 VOA-Gdl<n <12'42 1.011 mD 8 Now Sensations- RCA 43•\CJ$1lEErlA EllSTON A i\rivate Heaven- EMl- ~ •!4\ 48 BILLY Hlfl. 57 An innoomtMan- Co!umboa\• 4'•'EJ''IMEJACIISON5 15 VKto~y- Ep:c\ 46• mE IIIC CHILL 34 Soundtmdt- MotDWD\\ 47\ !.IWM lll!ANICI\N 17 ~U'Conttoi-Adantic* ~-8·43 IIMMYBUI'FEIT l Riddle< in the Sand- MCA 119• UNDS[Y 4 BUCKINGHAM Go lnYne-S.ku,.rAsylum :1&41 li'ATMETIIENY 2 FnCUde-ECM ~----------------------------N9ftMBm------------------------------~ 1. in Search of Excellence, by T. J. Peters & A. H. Waterman Jr. (Warner. $!).95.) A look at the secrets of successful business. 2. In Search of the Far Side, by Gary larson. (Andrews. McMeel & Parker, $4.95.) More cartoons from the \Far Side\. 3. living, Loving end Learning, by Leo F. Buscaglia. (Fawcett, $5.95.) Thoughts from the acclaimed Gallfomia professor. 4. Ut!a IBimbaeh'l College Beck, by Lisa Birnbach. (Ballantine, $7 .95.) Everything you always wanted to know about Colleges. 5. Too Ono Minute Manager, by K. Blanchard & S. Johnson. {Berkley, $6.95.) How to increase your productivity. S. Ttae Rood L&~m Tra.rebd, by M. Scott Peck. (Touchstone. __ _$8.95.) Ps~chologi~l and spiritual inspiration by a psychiatrist. i. 'loons for OurT!roo, by Berke Breathed. (Little, Brown. $6.95.) Cart~orw !~om the comic strip ~Bioo~ Coun~---~- ~ 8. Blue Highway@. by William least Heat Moon. (Fawcett. $3.95.) A look at life at the back roads of Americ.a. 9. The Color Purple, by Alice Walker. (Washington Square Press. $5.95:) Winner of the 1983 American Book Award. --- - ------~--------~ ' 10. Mogf!irandll, by John Naisbltt. (Warl'\er. $3 95.) i Forecasting America's future. r ::.~~~; .... ~-M- ... -,.,- • ..,----~~~brt~notw~th.tcvunt'Y Clc1otD\ '\ ~~ I I ,,.,...,.. ,_.., »\\\ ••- Wo, \'\'\\ ..,.,, \\'\ \\•~•\\\' ~~•-\\' •• ·~ '••••\\ ~ I I (Warner. $4.95.) A beaullfully tllustn.\led portfoliO of the spsclflc . holographic theory. j things tn life that would be oblitertlted by a nuclear holocaust The Furlhor Aclventumof HI!Cid61lerryhfln 1 nic, by ~'1 ~att~ws. ~ The Sphinx Dnd !hG Rainbow, by David Loye. (SigneVNAL, $3.95.) A remarkably aut en ec o a wam s ij (Bantam/New Age, $3.95.) Startling new discoveries In the l~nguage. the heart of his humor, and celebration of the j !rontlar of brain research. Probes the workings of righl·braln/1eft a American Wsst. ~ J&ZtSL2L ~~az::c ~'\\'*'\'\\\\\\\'mm.WOJ4.~==:~~.::C.=:c!::Z~

plwn. owd oi the ~mat­ ix dif- a a sitions ions of , and f. He i::; a eteran have he and ehouse rtist to in do not fu- can of vening Cof- l j .I ; ~ i ('ON( :ORIJI J:'N.\'I~~ Noremhcr 15, 1984 Page IS · Photos Shown By CARRIE CERRONE Staff Martin Benjamin, assistant professor of the Arts at Union, gave a Faculty Colloquium entitled ''Selections of Personal Photographs: 1971-1984\ on November 6, 1984. The pictures were ·shown in the fonn of a slide presentation of ap- proximately 125 photos which had been taken over the past fourteen years. Workshop in Rockport; RPI; and the Viewpoint Gallery in LUbbock, TX. Twenty to twenty- five of his selected photographs will appear at the Interior Gallery in Saratoga starting on November 16 and lasUng through the month of Decem- ber. THE ARTS Benjamin has received high honors in severat extremely competitive contests. He won first prize in the professional division of the 1974 Life Bicentennial Photography Competition, the theme of which was the \Declaration of Interdependence.\ Submissions dealt with personal, family, and professional relationships. Benjamin also placed first in the . faculty division of the Nikon-NutsheH College Photography Contest in both 1976 and 1977. In addition to the above distinctions, Benjamin was a recipient of the coveted Creative Arts Program Ser- vices (CAPS) grant and photpgraphy fellowship to aid in the pursuit of his work. Polaroid Corporation chose to adopt several of Benjamin's photos, which were submitted in- their \Selections 2\ competition in the _spring of 1984 into their permanent collection. These pictures will appear in a soon- to-be published book of the same name. The variety of subject matter that he photographs ranges from \everyday experiences\ to essays that focus in on a single woman, Donna; Buddy Holly's grave site; Ellis Island; and Miss America pageants. His work has undergone a transition from -the documen- tary style of his earlier· career to photos that capture \feeling mood, and atmosphere,\ Extensive experimenting with infrared film and the combining of .single shots to fonn more elaborate compositions has been a distinguishing characteristic of Benjamin's work. The majority of his projects involve the use of a simple 35rrun camera and are developed, mounted, and framed by Benjamin. _Cjoumgegdliearn at Memorial Chapel . .. Davis Jokes and Juggles Martin Benjamin was reviewed in the April 1983 issue of American Photographer. His photos of Buddy Holly's burial site and a Rolling Stones con- cert will be published in Timothy White's Rock _Stars early in 1985. Presentations of Benjamin's work have been given at the Arts CenttJr in Troy; Center Galleries in Albany; Imageworks in Cambridge, MA; Maine Photographic Although he devotes the majority of his time to teaching and personal enterprises, Benjamin recently completed a photo essay for St. Peter's Hospital. This annual report was photographed in such a way as to. emphasize the \human- ness and feeling\ of the staff towards the patients. He has also made presentations as a guest artist at Texas Tech University and the University of Illinois. Martin Benjamin has been an assistant professor at Union since 1979. He stresses that teaching is very important to him because he enjoys the \constant contact with people\ in addition to expression and critiques of other photographers. The value of a picture, Benjamin believes, is in its \expression of personal importance\' to the individual artist. By LUKE FANNON Staff At 8 p.m., this. past Friday night, Union College was treated to a night of en- tertainment tmsurpassed but by a few events in recent history. Micbael Davis, America's premiere juggling-comedian, appeared on the stage of Memorial Chapel and dazzled a near capacity crowd with his juggling skill while keeping them on the edge of hysteria with his comedic genius. Mr. Davis, a veteran of Broadway (\Sugar Babies\ and ''Broadway Follies''), television (Saturday Night Live, Letterman, Carson, 20-20, Merv Griffin, Showtime and HBO), and the nite-club and college circuits, began with a classic stand-up routine rivaling that of any professional stand-up comedian. Using one- liners generously, (At one point he urged the crowd in the balcony to \Go ahead, jump. You can make it.\) Mr. Davis set the tone for what was to come. Following his stand-up The new and larger dance studio will b~ used for the first time Winter Term. Classes for P.ractica credit or audit will be offered in both ballet and modern dance. Ballet U will be on Wednesdays(4-5:30}, and Ballet Ill on Fridays (1-2:30). Modern Dance for beginners will be Thursdays (4:30-6) and intermeaiate Modern Dance on Tuesdays {4:30-6) •. Performance Workshops are new to the dance program; the Ballet Workshop will be Fridays (2:30~4) and the Modern Workshop is Thursday evenings (6- 7:30). Students m'ay pre-register and obtain information on the practica credit from the secretary in the Arts office. Pat Castelli, Arts Dept. Cabaret ''What good is it sitting alone in your room? come hear the music I H p,ay .•• Tonite at 8:45 and 10:45 in the Cabaret Room The amazing and multi-talented: Act II- Bob Hartmann & Dave Lindquest Act 1- Bob Katzman and Bob VanVoris as your Master of Ceremonies Refreshments will be served • proper I D necessary Tickets on sale at Student Activities desk NOW routine Mr. Davis smoothly moved on to \what I really came for,\ as he put it: Juggling. After a demonstration of his balancing skills, Davis picked up one red ball. 11 ! have an unusual philosophy about juggling,\ he said as he con- sciously tossed the ball tmder his leg and ar'Jund that back, \I don't feel it's important how many. As long as you do it with style.\ Mr. Davis then proceeded to awe the audience with two, three, and five ball juggles continuously using his wit and co:nedic talent throughout. He then moved on to one of his most famous routines, and the audience was introduced to 'Mac the Knife,' 'Beaver the Cleaver,' and 'George the Axe.' This is one of his funniest routines; one in which Davis used all of his comedic and juggling talents to keep the audience on the edge of their seats. After explaining that 'George the Axe' was used by George Washington to cut down the fabled cherry tree (\I had to replace the head, and the handle . . . But it occupies the same space.\) he assured those in the front, \Don't worry I've done this ... Oh, twice!'' Davis then described how his teacher, 'Lefty,' taught him this juggle. \Kick the axe up in the air, throw the knife, throw the cleaver ... Run like hell!\ Mr. Davis then kicked the axe in the air, threw the knife, threw the cleaver . . . and juggled like hell! Mr. Davis then changed the pace and showed his incredible versatility by singing a couple of hilarious songs while playing the guitar. His first song was a \Semi-autobiographical song about the life of a diesel truck.\ His second was a song about his ex-girlfriend. Both of these had the audience rolling in laughter. Again his sense of humor was evident, especially in the prefaces to his songs. \My girlfriend couldn't be here tonight. She's visiting a relative: her husband.\ \I should stick up for my gender even though my gender doesn't stick up for me.\ He finished this segment of his act by balancing his red top hat at the end of a baton, which he balanced on his forehead, while playing the guitar. When back to juggling, Mr. Davis toolt us to the \world of the unusual . . . where things that happen every day you call daily.\ In this unusual world, Davis ju'ggled two ping pong balls, sucking them into his mouth, and alternately shooting them high into the air and catching them in his mouth again. He continued on to juggle water in this unusual world. That is (and you'll have to take my word for it) something you'd have to see to believe. Michael's final routine was his most famous one. Davis introduced the audience to a bowling ball, which he praved to be as dangerous as a knife by using it to smash a carrot, a-la Gallagher of HBO fame. He then introduced us to \the natural enemy of the h.cwling ball,\ an egg. Finally he gave an apple to a member of the audience who tossed it back to him to start the juggle. Unfortunately, the first attempt failed, with Mr. Davis dropping the raw egg. However, he quickly turned his mistake into screaming laughter as he bent down and threw the broken egg (yolk, white, and shell) flying back into the jugglt!. He then gave a new egg to a member of the audience and started his juggle again from that throw. To see this juggle is to ap- preciate it and one cannot do justice to it in words. It simply is an amazing display of juggling talent and visually it is hilariously funny. As one critic put it: \His feat of juggling a bowling ball, raw egg and apple already is a classic routine, but it becomes more incredible each time I see it.\ Michael Davis finished his scheduled routine at this point but was called back on stage by his first standing ovation of the evening. Michael returned to do what he called 'Juggling Du- Jur.' He first took a whole loaf of Wonder Bread (\We wonder if its bread! \) removed the crust and molded it into a big white bread ball, a little bit larger than a softball. He then took a tub of butter (yes, a tub of butter), and molded that into a ball. Finally, (now hold onto your lunch!) he opened a package containing, 'yuk, liver! He then proceeded to juggle the butter ball, the liver, and the bread ball. Davis lost control of the juggle after a few passes as the butter and bread balls fell apart, throwing pieces of bread and globs of butter everywhere. He finished by throwing the liver high into the air, to screams of disgust of many of the female members of the audience. I have never seen anything like this. I know it sounds disgusting, and it was. But, it was also deliciously funny. Mr. Davis again bowed out, and again was called back, this time with his second standing ovation. Mr. Davis exhibited another one of his talents by taking objects from the audience and attempting to juggle them. He also used his wit and humor to keep the audience laughirlg throughout this final routine of his act. \I'm young enough to be your older brother. I probably am!\ Mr. Davis improvised extremely Continued on page 17

paid for full of en- sin- lists hall of a ~liday the be ~d at .For the mas the Per- · at the t the the Jazz ert at on 1972; their the ~and corn- By ERIC LIPMAN Staff T!Hs past Thursday. u mon -i udents were treated to tht· .astes of culture, as ~ew York':: 'i+'f'iHI Hill brought tnei'· i';.n·p l•.' ii!!l!;u:-; Hiller! '\' i1:: in- .. {Jdtt~·t io: : • vdrt:.· ~asi.i~·~ .. ~\ ti:t· :tternvon W<b a plc·asmllrmx v:· .-!' t~·tiort ll~ educc:t(· a~ 'Ae'll et-.; ·~~~lru·ic:ne t~hnkin;.: .. utl~ ~.!.la~:~'(.~ ... ' 1 i ,\'l(f.!Jlp}il~~· ~!(1f~·b !l~ ~hu:---~~ tiL·i .. ,•rt• _.,(.~~ uu~ \\r'e nv duubL \Vet t' ;.art of the marketing success u~ ·ite yea!. It was so for me. because T was grateful to the winery not •n!y for the free drinks but also :or revealing the all too secret art of wine tasting. The presentation given by Laurie Bishop-an attractive Cornell co-ed, interning with Heron Hill as a sales representative- would impart to us the tricks of the connisseur trade. As a review, I would like to share with you, the reader, what I learned. Wine tasting, as the experts do, is different from just wine drinking , as the former is really putting three senses to work. The real aficionados use their eyes and their noses, in addition to their pallets. The first step is to look at your glass of wine. White wine should be golden-clear and of one consistency throughout. A white wine with a brownish color signals that air has gotten into the bottle and that the wine has begun to mold. Good red wines will have a full and solid color and also be of one consistency. B~r swirling the wine along tJ;e :1Stde of the glass, th? taster , ;.]n tell a great. rleal ::;bout a ·inc'. even befon sippi!lg. .\' :;tehinr~ tr:c· wine as it drip~ · :.~l\\'n along th~ s·!d(\S of 't.hc g1as:-:: .\Jd nr1'i''\' I· .. - .... ,·-a-:; ,·t ct'<J\~\ 'f' •. L~~!,..,,,,..~~ . .._.,_J- _, ~.,.:;.\_; .·:up~ ~:ou into thr ··g1yerriu:; .r !)fJl:~-,nt'' nf \\ . .n,:· :;.:~..;tc--ctian. \ ·l~lL.ho•lr·C'..~' ·~·nr). H·ill 1-.,~,~n. .... r-Jl.\J'' ' . ' {.f ' . ' l i '. ~ .... ~ .. ~ l.., ~ !yccrtq conlt'\:~ ;1nci '·'t~n1 drii) !flrwe slo~··J~: than th,· li;~hi::c•r nJJtinUC'!; i'fom pa;. <' r; . :dl with the ;.Jri ide::. gin\' \, o i.nn from th~· .'JUliienc<': <!. sho::, , crui.cil, aru ,, il•iic<::. i f.,J d,;J:;e uf you wilu bih'en't f<lke11 ~~l:\r[irn\.ll lti~i- 1 •! ... \ ;.-t 1{'\~l''l' t\!:11 ••. ,.. ..... \ ·-· • ... J ~ f - ~ ' ~ \._ \... ;o-.l ~ l . . 'j \\''' . ' .. . ., ' ., \. • 1 ·. Je.\Jt t e-:..,_, 1l,..t'' ..-~•· ~J l- .. ~~J.:,\·Jl ·,·. :i li .:~ b:dL r.~!)\,·c_.~ ... ,:::d l(t :::tili:t:. .. ;;kh is , .. {,f!ikc'io:d ;\ :.1 c;i.il·i~ •.11 :: chojJL · :l-J:L· 11~HJ 110 t_:·,_,!_~_bl·~· ,rjt-l1 ;; c~ shoL n1' ~~~'-~ c,·nici' i;Ul Ul:' · ~ '·';_'r·e ,~,· v; ei~~hi. t.H~trihili \('n \'f't-f·' ~\~; n1ucr ... i·1 h:?nJ~~\' ~1r:d h~· \'t\:l·~ 'j!·t~.l!Jl\ l,,_l .1ll,:J.~.2,!0 d .. 1·1, \t:3.:} 1 !H1H: \;-;e~~' hirn ir) U1r}u .. !h ~t;!f'h;~:._~1 · l:~i;)hcd t1l;~ in~pf'O'.'i~r.;Un:~ ~.'\' . ·tn:.!)in;_ l}q~ Jl!:H .. _' dr:tcl t~J:! :·utcL. plarJnt~ the sitos n~ i:ih~ ::ru;l:•, and balc.ncing \he •'q\•~lun'c'r21 ion •m his forebt<:'::,_l. wines which ~ave less giyceriH The next si.ep is to smell the wine. Considering that much of our sense of taste is actually ou: powerful sens<: of sme!~. i: makes sense w give our nose :.. littJL. r<<>VW •·. i)n\ !.'1-IUttuna::, not\'. howpn·, you ca;, ea;;il:. s n ~; 1 .. .; on 1 . : , ; ~ • , v; ~, ~ . 1\~:. :.J v. : nothlll;' a\ aL abuUL '.Vif'• bt'l'<iU'\(' W)!\l' i\ Ctl!ilC: t(i SBlflllin.. i;:: se~f_l·~·uu;~, Ui~.· iflf'!f'\'i~,dti.y '<:f~.: '·\'(',. L!!:~: ~·-~1··.,, '' \·vmL·rfu: :J'.JUljL~:.:i. . .. Th:: lim·, I hay · noticeL, i:.: par ticularly popular among those preteooing to be experts on the subject. Finally, and it is by far the best step, is the tasting. We were instructed to curl the wine near the back of our mouth- close to the pallet-and, as politely as we could, draw air through it. The air, passing through the tiny store of wine in our mouth, brings out those things which are most pronounced in the wine's flavor. Dry wines at this point will taste crisper, while fruitier wines will taste like a whole produce department. Slurping~ as well, has definite advantages, as you can do as a wine taster what you could never do with chocolate milk as a child. The Heron Hill selections run the gamut from dry table wines to their sweet \Ravat\, any of which would be a good choice for an evening's tasting. In fact, Heron Hill's\Aurora\ has even made it into that beer drinking bastion: The Skeller. For the truly discriminating tastes with eight dollars to spend, the l\ing of Heron Hi11 is without questinr: the Reisiing JGhan· nisberr!. Umrle, our v:inc: tasting tour r,uioc.·, noted H! th<· end of th~ run th:::_ wine t:<!sl.m·-' i: import::m; tJrr:msc American , c'~>nf:·;·?.lJ;· ha\'\' b2e1 a'fraid 0' '\'lin~ f0r n1~n~~:· vrRr.'-:r. A~-:. n:'. fir1cd l\Jt.\' i ,.:_.\. t1r,,.,. S'''\ \L.Il' . .' : Ui ''., ... • o.~ol ,,.{,,' .;,.' .. ·, iJ~ H.\rnn 1.1111 ·(~\'t·\\ ''00 ~ooc{ tn\ l\. --- V• 11 .a. .:::0,) ~., \. •J \' \/j, U.~·· i o he ;lf;-,c:id of any Ionge:·. iJw:is finisllc•1 his second en- . ;'I •.• by jugghnr~ three bowliill', l!~1t:.} rern;1rkiJ1~, ql don't 1rno\·; i, l ~'an <lo Li1b. Xt's too winCJV i1, i1::rc.'' :\'iichac·l Davis finisileLi i ~~f' ';hii\·: t.1_; h:.~ th.irc: staxH:HD·-'. ()\ ~~uon df U;t' rdr~h,. !'r)Uu1'.in~ ilJ,, sbuw Mr. D:J.:!: ·.',:....-,:..·. i.rt· .. riLt·~\ l_rJ i:l recentl.ql'i {,1 ·,ti•Cil'l'i.' .:md e~),wnni in r\lilo.nc 1 .~~J~l;~~ H'hich i:._1 above I~c;Ji: Hou.c:r 1 hf'<;! ~:'lr. D:1vis car•· dit_\j\; ~!·.p~u~ of ln~~. retreer\ 1fih?~ ,;._ h: .• ; _,,_.,_\Jill!lllshe;,t, and i-Yht.••. i-, ·· 1x:' 1\'.s ,.:. achieve in the j\~·.l_t)l C. r•/hJL;f! ashed abQU.l \'r'hr t1v ~.·;a;~ :·:o :~u~~·ces~lnl rvir. f);:nr(: repiiecl ti1,J t. \1 foU.iid thing:·. lh1't th:c aur:lience wonldn'l. waH: av::J:, ~rr.•m. '' He also denwn .. t. ~. , ~· .. f \ ! IJ.:.,; t' L;.., > .. 1. ~· _ .. _ - ·- ... I ·~ ~: r. , ·. I r ... -.. ..... .)____ 1~ j;.:._ j~- Scientist-Adventurer Buckaroo Banzai t Peter Welle· ste~ow• iron1 ieit e1n:• ccHnr·aoe~ ir, arn~- (Left to right~ Perfec1 Tomm·/ (:...ewis Smirt•;, Ne1•. Jc···-.c · Jr·'f Gold:,urn <H':' Rene , P<C>~ Serna) star in the 20th Century FO)( film, \Buckaroo Banzai ' f,:'; uc·· By DAPHNE Cl!UGAS Staff Remember the davs of Batman,· Superman,· and Aquaman? Well, those days are ~ack in the form of 20th Century Fox's 'The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the Eighth Dimension.\ This rather bizarre tale of a comic book hero-crime fighter takes us back to the days of Saturday morning crime fighting car- toons so faithfully watched by so many of us. Buckaroo Banzai 1 playeu by Pe!cr Weller of \Firs~ Bo,·n '' farfl'..' ~ is quite the nenais~an:.:.:· man. ;', top brain surgc••:r~. srientizt. c:--in1!:' righter, and roc:: 'n roll sin;.!,{':'. till' v;hul:.· {~~-~ur .. ~ r:: r~st.~. it~ .. ~ h:~i!~~·~~ C._ H .. s;_:..~ e;~.~ d!l B~2~:1~:!ron~:--- shotddti';:, 1 ju.sL 0:-: 1jr.\r ro~,t\1i·~· tJ'1'-'·~· jii•~ \} 1 ~~ ~~:-~.., 1 ·~-,.~~··r·:·· -'t.'t·: .. '~·. :: ··,· ...... dp:_,r(!q,,. ~.JJ. J3dl..r.:..CHut~ ~.· L!..r .'..,U!J'lf'lULllJ. i~)~ ~~uperiiL:;l~: L< hl1Z~· v.-:.: \.\uut~~ cali cti:. aiici: uein,c;. Buck;wvo b Ju::;i. a plnu, stt'G:i ?d hi.:: sense o~ hurnoc saying. \Anyone can succeed with \.alent.\ The groL1p aJsc learm:d of i11,; nians kr the· 1uturc. While l!e sta1·::6. \l dun't hnow wh>e<t'::; ~~oln&; w hapoen ;.d nr;.\ he does have ~1tans i 1t rln St.\Inc t't·riUn;.::. it~ ;~he iu1 ore .~~ tii:th~ oo~i~rv~ ap(i .nu:\ tt .. ~ t)\~c·r: ·: p)(;_.. 'J hrOUi~_;lctU• u<:· 0\·enjJ,._· .11r JJ&\ i;, l.lf8Videci thos. wi·1~1 Bhended. :1 hllariovsJ~ gr\''' :. tim,~ and hi~ unhi.\' br,~nf: o: cnnw:\y an6 ju~rniu;! si:i1; \\ W noi b~ fm'goU.en soon. Oii u: ... tht'-\':c1\ on:: growl i:; respno· sib~.: icH~ this: til,~· St:?:-t\:(·-~ I~orunL ~/ou ,~uy~ ar ._ .. uoiti 1 ~ r: greHt iob, I~e-~p ii u:--~ ~ 1- , ' I· ·~ WJ old guy from New Jersey. So how does an average guy like Buckaroo get into the situation to have to save the world? Quite simply, Buckaro<• travels through the eighth dimension (you physicists can figure that one out) in hb converted Ford truck with the help of his Oscillation Over- thruster. You see, the good black aliens from Planet 10 have put their bad red coun- terparts into the eighth dimension. hoping for then, never to return. Bu; with Buckaroo'c Oscillation 0\'Cr- thrustr:},r, these red alien:-. c:u\ return bac!; t0 PJar;,:! JO~ ~\nd :~~~ the v:~li be~in~~ t11z: r:'':l. ~lhl'rl.-. t.ryin:.; tlJ gei th:: (J\~en:n~tL-;L_'i. und t!·.c~.bhtck :Jlh::i'J> .-,Ln:•;l;l! 1 : ::. ; f ;.,._.... .' PI;,_ ;Ill ( ~ d<~:;\ f'~J :_·t;uj,· : ;j[' p;·: __ \',_-r,! !Jl~-: rt:d .~:iicns r·Ttll;-·.· T -:·vn1plh_·;ttt :z;~Jtl.'2r.· \-.<..--~~:; rnor.:, nob:x.iy eh; 3r·c th: ~'' :~bt·n:- .. P:~c:~ril f,l- Buci~;:51 !j v,th, cur~ ;;;~·,• then~ c::< a tvs.uii ·\, ltio; ioniz&tion b\' thl: [)\·;~:;; alien:-:. rye.~. Burk;:roo L: '-~·,.j;. l~novrrf~ 0'\/\~P- r~n PJ:.Ha:~ JO l So Buckaroo and his gang, th, Hon~:, i\.on~ C:ava!ir· .·.· s~i tlv [ 1, sa,·e th~ l-~arth. i-:!ucl~ar:;u ·_, gaw. rhem!Jpr:,.: P!<'lUdP ••• _.._. ,!t:rs.e;. t phn;ed 1'J'' }ef: Ci<k blum I rum \'l h1. b1·~ CiJiJ'\' Pcrfecr 1'onuny , Dic.v<·:~ !1· L~~Wi:' .::irnJL;., ·l~'-''HJ _.,(.,·,:, · =p1:t.'.·~~~ b~. I ... ~!p.-_· :'):~-r,,~l) 1 .::.~, Jl;J\'.JI!t!!.' · p:a:v•:c; lv 1:'\ -. [);·(~\IT! 1. \~tl'Jilc pl;o.\lfi'· '\ ;· >. ··. .J,·r.\~\':· dub 1-\ud~:,n ·i'' ,, _!,l~>'·•·· , -~ , i.~L:.:.; .:~ by Penny Priddy 1 Elten .l:larken from \Tender Mercies'' i who turn;; out to be Buckaroo·::: deceased wife's twin sister. or course, Buckaroo knows tni.s right away Thi~ is what Buckaroo Banzai is all abouL Buckaroo Banzai am! lh~ Hong Kong Cavaliers are what one would call really laid bade Their matter-of-fact attitude: toward the impending destruction of the Earth give;;; off the feeling that ye.:>, Buckaroo is ir1 fati:,in r:onLL'l. 1h~:,edR1JcE:· frem Pian~~;~ ·Jp on the othe!· I·~anJ, are ouJ.tt~ d:< O npo\J'i\ \~t~ n''Uro'l, ;, .,,., t-' 0 J ,\,... }1,,.\' • \...- H.• v: tif-!1-':~ beh~_:\\t~·~ i,...; ::-/• ~~,-pi\.~~.~ ~~· 1~~~(,·.~. ~t:1·i~d tlch;entur\.: fti:·,_: 1-~-:, .. f\_'t; r.Ji~_llt. ;;;~·~~ !r:t: i}~. !.~·_a~,: .Johll '~\i-:~1:-Ci;\:\ '·':h,, hc_i:-. l~:~:,-c\· ~./\_\{_·r u~iV !y_~~·,,· i_/ I;:,:d_1;...~;·.' SClCn· i. r)r. r:rrlillL L\7.~.~~·\l~) .' plo.~l'·:,:_l-; ~): . ~..1 on· r ~- j t n ·, o ~,: · · ;>'; • l 1 ~· ~. u :· ~ .· intercstu1~~ ((~ nnL2 ttl~H ~\ \_·: _ 0112 !/ the r··r.rt c:.licn~ ~-) n2.r11;~, · Jot·:n. L;yr:;;' ill\: blacL ~ili'c ·, · w~c•·:· 118IT•( ~' :,nr:• I~ur!::arfH• h;~nza; i:--: d i_~~l-: Ji(!fOd~· o: {tlJ!,' ~:'J<llUrda;- fll_(·~·t:L\ l'rlrneU.~hUt1~cl~1~~~ .. I!: y:til·.:.·~·' l 'I Lt-tkc• ~~ ii(!tll. htH~10t'(1!2~'· .~! 1 ;!:~ r,tr.d. oc(·Upt.cz\: ~Jtlt ; :nlt~ it..~.-. : i' \- • i ' I Ted wass and George Burns star in \Oh God. Yo~' Devil,''': Warnf.'r j' BrothersreleasenowplaymgatMohawkMall C1nema 1·~ ,'. , '------------·-----·\--·--------·

Page 16 CONCORDIENS/S, Nm·emher/5, 1984 THE ARTS Premiere Chamber Concert The world premiere of an original musical piece will be the featured presentation when Capitol Chamber Artists offers its second concert of the season, on Friday, November 16, at 8 p.m. in the Bush Memorial Center of Troy's Russell Sage College, and Sunday, November 18, at 3 p.m. in the State University Recital Hall in Albany. The new composition, written by the highly regarded Michigan composer Clark Eastham, is entitled ''Duo for · Flute and Viola.\ Consisting of three movements, wit'h the tempo markings of moderato, andante and lively, the duo was commissioned by Capitol Chamber Artists and is dedicated to its flutist, Irvin Gilman, and the vioHnist-violist Mary Lou Saetta, director of CCA, who will be the per- formers of the piece. Also on the program for the Capitol Chamber Artists con- cert, which is called \The Muse of Italy: A Delight of Music Mostly Italian,\ are Vivaldi's concerto grosso in D minor, the charming concerto in G for flute, violin and chamber or- chestra by Cimarosa, and \Furanna a work composed in 1981 by Nicolas Flagello, now on the faculty of the Manhattan School of Music. Tickets are $7 for general admission and $5 for students. They will be available at the door or may be reserved by calling ( 518) 489-0507. The Dining Room THE DINING ROOM, A.R. Gurney, Jr.'s Off-Broadway comedy hit, will be staged November at Proctor's American Pop Dance Spectacular Thurs., Nov. 15• a p.m. New Black Eagle Jazz B.and Sat., Nov. 17• 8 p.m. • • USICa November 17 through December 16 by Capital Repertory Company at the Market Theatre in downtown Albany. The second play of the professional Equity theatre's 1984-85, 6-play season, THE DINING ROOM will be directed by Michael J. Hurne, whose previous Capital Rep directing credits include THE GLASS MENAGERIE and TABLE MANNERS. THE DINING ROOM will be performed at 8 PM Tuesdays through Fridays, 4: 30 and 9 PM Saturdays, and 2:30 PM Sun- days. Tickets, which range from $9.50 to $15, are available at the Market Theatre, at aU Community Box Office locations, and at the Saratoga Circuit in Saratoga Springs. Phone orders are accepted by Capital Rep at 462-4534, or 24 hours a day by Chargit at 1-800- 468-3540 (toll free). Discounts are offered to . students and seniors at many performances, and group rates are offered at all performances, except previews. Half price student rush tickets are available half an hour prior to curtain at the Market Theatre box office, subject to ticket availability. Turner/Friedman toPeiform Soprano Anne Turner · and pianist Carole Friedman will present a program of notable songs from the twentieth century on the University at Alfiany Department of Music Faculty Showcase Series S turday, November 17, at 8 p.m. in the Recital Hall of the University Performing Arts Center. Both are well-known performers in the area, New York State and New England. Turner is a member of the faculty of the University and Carole Friedman appears as a guest artist. General admission is $3 with students and senior citizens admitted for $2. Call 457-8606 weekdays between 9 am and 4 pm for reservations. Dewhurst To Appear Colleen Dewhutst, acclaimed actress, wHl .. be doing a reading of Lavonne Mueller's one-act play, THE ONLY WOMAN GENERAL, on Monday, Nov. 19 at 6:30 p.m. in the Skidmore Theater. Immediately following the reading, there wHI be a panel discussion on ''Developing and Producing a New Script.\ featuring Julia Miles, Associate Producer of the American Place Theater and founder of the Woman's Project in N.Y.C. along with Collei:m Dewhurst and Lavonne Mueller. Miss Dewhurst has scored one success after another in ·her career which ranges from Broadway, Off-Broadway and the New York Shakespeare Festival in the Park to motion pictures and television. Admission to the panel and THE ONLY WOMAN GENERAL is free, but reser- vations are recommended. For further information please call 584-5000 ext. 2347. Youth · Open Season The Empire State Youth Orchestra will be opening what promises to be its most exciting season yet, in the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall on Sunday, November 18 at 3:00 p.m. The program for the November 18 concert is Beethoven's Overture to \Egmont\; the Marcello oboe CAPITt,>,.L REP- The Thn1ngRoom by A. R. Gurney, Jr. Are the WASP's an endangered species? Comedy hit- perfect for the holidays. November 17-December 16 Corporate Sponsor: The LA Swyer Companies, St<lle Street Centre t1N ·- Mf1NHf\ ~J&~IHA.~i;~ 605 Union Street JOIN US FOR SUNDAY BRUNCH 11 A.M. - 3 P. M~~ OPEN 1 DAYS A WEEK LUNCH-DINNER-FINGER FOODS Serving 11:30 am a 1 :00 am otcs concerto in c minor, second movement; Mozart's concerto No. 3 in E flat Major for French horn, first movement; Haydn's cello concerto No. 1 in C Major, first movement. The program will conclude with Stravinsky's Firebird Suite. With this concert, Victoria Bond, noted American con- ductor and composer, begins her third season as Music Director of the Empire State Youth Orchestra. Tickets are ·available at Community Box Offices. Admission is $5.00 for adults. and $3.00 for senior citizens and students under 18. Amadeus Stag~d Amadeus by Peter Shaffer will be staged by director William A. Leone for the State University ·Theatre Tuesdays through Saturdays, November 27-December 1 and December 4- 8 at 8 p.m. in the Lab Theatre of the ·University at Albany Performing Arts Center with Saturday matinees at 2 p.m. December 1 and 8. Se.ating is limited in the Lab Theatre so early reservations are recommended. For further · information call the Performing Arts Center at (518) 457-8606 weekdays between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. General admission is $6 with students and senior citizens admitted for $4. Group rates are available by calling the ticket office in advance. Madrigal Dinner Set The second annual Renaissance -Christmas Madrigal Dinners are set for Saturday, December 1 and Sunday, December 2, in the Campus Center Ballroom of the University at Albany. Dinner will be served promptly at 7 p.m., preceded by the opening of a cash bar at 6 p.m. Reser- r • vatwns must be made and paid for by Novebmer 19. Admission is $15 for adults and $12 for students. The event includes a full dinner in the style of Elizabethan England. Whi,le dining there will be en- tertainment provided by sin- ters, dancers, brass fanfares, period instrutnentalists strolling ~through the hall decorated \\in the style of a renaissance ballroom. A fonnal concert featuring the Univer- sity Chamber Singers, David Janower, conductor, will follow the dinner. Sacred and secular music ofEnglandandGermany as well as traditional holiday carols wm· comprise the program. · Group seating will be available only if requested at the time of reservation. For more information about · the Renaissance Christmas Madrigal Dinners, call the University at Albany Per- forming Arts Center weekdays · between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. at (518) 457-8606. The event is sponsored by the University at Albany Music Department and is coordinated artistically by David Janower, director of choral studies at the University. Shadowfax in Concert The Troy Savings Bank Music Hall Association announces the signing of Windham Hill Jazz artists Shadowfax in concert at the acoustically-perfect · Troy Savings Bank Music Hall on December 7, 1984 at 8 p.m. Shadowfax began as a group in an lllinois farmhouse in 1972; from this beginning, their notariety spread regionally, and they were signed to the Windham Hill label in 1982. Playing a hybrid of jazz and rock with classical elements, Shadowfax utilizes both com- plex electronic and traditional ethnic instruments. VISIT The Internationally Acc:aimed Alternate Dining Experience on Campus THE AMAZING (STUPENDOUS) ROCK-N-ROLL PI .ZZA pu·a· ~, . . . 0<·~~~.:~~- ~ Da m:~:~u:~~: Piua .,. • 't . r I I ScrumrJtious Subs -• It ?< Famous Cookies · · \\::_$~ Popcorn -.~ E·tc.. . · ~ THIS WEEK'S SPECIAL Friday 5:00-8:30 p.m. LARGE PIE w/Pitcher: -Of Soda $6.00 -Of Beer $6.50 ' ' ·, • •' • ' ' ' ·.' ' \ ' • <i • ' ~ -· ·~ I ' ' I' .• c a \1 tl r d d p T e g b \ si tl b \\ ! ' !i 1,; I \ •\' (,, . ::

.. Page 16 CONCORD/t:NSI~: Nm•ember·/5, 1984 -. THE ARTS Premiere Chamber Concert The world premiere of an original musical piece will he the featured presentation when Capitol Chamber Artists offers its second concert of the season, on Friday, November 16, at 8 p.m. in the Bush Memorial Center of Troy's Russell Sage College, and Sunday, November 18, at 3 p.m. in the State University Recital Hall in Albany. The new composition, written by the highly regarded Michigan composer Clark Eastham, is entitled \Duo for ·Flute and Viola.\ Consisting of three movements, with the tempo markings of moderato, andante and lively, the duo was commissioned by Capitol Chamber Artists and is dedicated to its flutist, Irvin Gilman, and the violinist-violist Mary Lou Saetta, director of CCA, who will be the per- formers of the piece. Also on the program for the Capitol Chamber Artists con- cert, which is called \The Muse of Italy: A Delight of Music Mostly Italian,\ are Vivaldi's concerto grosso in D minor, the charming concerto in G for flute, violin and chamber or- chestra by Cimarosa, and \Furanna a work composed in 1981 by Nicolas Flagello, now on the faculty of the Manhattan School of Music. Tickets are $7 for general admission and $5 for students. They will be available at the door or may be reserved by calling (518) 489-Q507. The Dining Room THE DINING ROOM, A.R. Gurney, Jr.'s Off-Broadway comedy hit, will be staged November at Proctor's American Pop Dance Spectacular Thurs., Nov. 15 • 8 p.m. New Black Eagle Jazz B.and Sat., Nov. 17\ 8 p;m. • USICa November 17 through December 16 by Capital Repertory Company at the Market Theatre in downtown Albany. The second play of the professional Equity theatre's 1984-85, 6-play season, THE DINING ROOM will be directed by Michael J. Hume, whose previous Capital Rep directing credits include THE GLASS MENAGERIE and TABLE MANNERS. THE DINING ROOM will be performed at 8 PM Tuesdays through Fridays, 4:30 and 9 PM Saturdays, and 2:30 PM Sun- days. Tickets, which range from $9.50 to $15, are available at the Market Theatre, at all Community Box Office locations, and at the Saratoga Circuit in Saratoga Springs: Phone orders are accepted by Capital Rep at 462-4534, or 24 hours a day by Chargit at 1-800... 468-3540 (toll free). Discounts are offered to . students and seniors at many performances, and group rates are offered at all performances, except previews. Half price student rush tickets are available half an hour prior to curtain at the Market Theatre box office, subject to ticket availability. Turner/Friedman to Perform Soprano Anne Turner · and pianist Carole Friedman will present a program, of notable songs from the twentieth . century on the University at Alfiany Department of Music Faculty Showcase Series S turday, November 17, at 8 p.m. in the Recital Hall of the University Performing Arts Center. Both are well-known performers in the area, New York State and New England. Turner is. a member of the faculty of the University and Carole Friedman appears as a guest f;lrtist. General adlnission is $3 with ·students and senior citizens admitted for $2. Call 457-8606 weekdays between 9 am and 4 pm for reservations~ . Dewhurst To Appear Colleen Dewhurst, acclaimed actress, Will\'be doing a reading of Lavonne Muell~r's one-act play, THE ONLY WOMAN GENERAL, on Monday, Nov.l9 at 6:30 p.m .. in the Skidmore Theater.l:rrunediately following the reading, there will be a panel discussion on \Developing and Producing a New Script.\ featuring Julia Miles~ Associate Producer of the American Place Theater and founder of the Woman's Project in N.Y.C~ along with Colleen Dewhurst and Lavonne Mueller. . Miss Dewhurst has scored one success after another in -her career which ranges from Broadway, Off-Broadway and the New York Shakespeare Festival in the Park to motion pictures and television. .Admission to the panel and THE ONLY WOMAN GENERAl is free, but reser- vations are reco:rrunended. For further information please call 584-5000 ext. 2347. Youth.· Open Season The Empire State Youth Orchestra will be opening what promises to be its most exciting season yet, in the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall on Sunday, November 18 .at 3:00 p.m. The program for the November 18 concert is. Beethoven's Overture to \Egmont\; the Marcello oboe CAPITA..L REP- ,w;n~ Ro g . om by A.R Gurney, Jr. Are the WASP's ail endangered species? Comedy hit- perfect for the holidays. November 17 ·December 16 Corporate Sponsor: The LA Swyer Companies. St4te Street Centre MtlNHf\ ~~~IH4~~~ - 605 Union .Street JOIN US FOR SUNDAY BRUNCH 11 A.M. - 3 P. M. OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK LUNCH-DINN,ER-FINGER FOODS Serving 11:30 am-1:00am ctcs concerto in u minor, second movement; Mo:~:art's concerto No. 3 in E flat Major for French hom, first movement; Haydn's cello concerto No. 1 inC .Major, first movement. 'The program will conclude with Stravinsky's Firebird Suite. With this. concert, Victoria Bond,. noted American con- ductor and composer, begins her third season as Music Director of the Empire State Youth Orchestra. Tickets are ·available at Community · Box Offices. Admission is $5.00 for adults and$3.00 for senior citizens and students under 18. Amadeus Stag~d Amadeus. by Peter Shaffer will be staged by director William A. Leone for the State University ·Theatre Tuesdays through Saturdays, November 27-December 1 and December 4- 8 at 8 p~m. in the Lab Theatre of the ·University at Albany Per.fonning Arts 'Center with Saturday matinees at 2 p.m .. December 1 and 8. S~ating is limited in the Lab Theatre so early reservations are recommended. For further · information call the Perfonning Arts Center at ('518) 457~8606 · weekdays between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. General admission is $6 with students and senior citizens admitted for $4. Group rates are available by calling the ticket office in advance. Madrigal Dinner Set The second annual Renaissance -Christmas Madrigal Dfuners are set for Saturday, D~cember 1 and Sunday, December 2, in the Campus Center Ballroom of the University at Albany. Dinner will be served promptly at 7 p.m., preceded by the opening of a cash bar at 6 p.m. Reser- vatlons must be made and paid for by Novebmer 19. Achnission is $J.:5 for ~dults and $12 for students. The event includes a full dinner in the style of ·Elizabethan England. WhHe dining there wHl be en- tertainment ,provided by sin~ ters, dancers, brass fanfares, period instrumentalists stroHi:ng .\'through the hall decorated ' in the style of a renaissance ballroom. A forinal concert featuring the UniVer- sity Chamber Singers, David Janower, conductor, will follow the dinner. Sacred and secular music of England and Gel'Iilaoy . as well as traditional holiday carols will' comprise the prograrn. · Group seating will be available only if rcequested at the time of reservation. For more 1nfornuition about -the Renaissance Christm.as Madrigal Dinners, call the University at Albany Per· forming Arts Center weekdays · between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. at (518) 457-8606. . The event is sponsored by the University at Albany Music Pepartment and is coordinated artistically by David Janower, director of choral studies at the University. Shadowfax · in Concert The Troy Savings Bank Music Hall Association announces the signing of Windham Hill Jazz artists Shadowfax in concert at the acoustically-perfect · Troy Savings Bank Music Hall on December 7, 1984 at 8 p.m. Shadowfax began as a group in an lllinois fannhouse in 1972; from this beginning, their notariety spread regionally, and they were signed to the Windham Hill label in 1982. Playing a hybrid of jazz and rock with dassica1 elements, Shadowfax utilizes both com- plex electronic and traditional ethnic instrunaents. VISIT The Internationally Acciaimed Alternate Dining Experience on Campus THE AMAZING (STUPENDOUS) 'ROCK-N-ROLL PIZZA PUB Featuring: Damn Awesome Pizza Scrumptious Subs Famous Cookies Popcorn Etc ••• THIS WEEK•s SPECIAL Friday 5:00-8,:30 p.m. LARGE PlE w/Pitcher: -Of· Soda $6.00 -Of Be~r $6.50 I' a .I r 1 .. , :! ,. \ ''l ' . . ,

paid 12 for full e of While en- sin~ hall of a onnal niver- ~cular the be at .For the the Per- · at ~usic the Music es the Jazz at ·Troy on group their o the ~2. and com- · \~ ... :;::z:::r::::~~~.2..~!:'~~~-i'f1\'-\·· ===:zt:·\~.-.-=..~:.:-:::._==:i:=::::::;;:: ·c:;:c· ;;;:o· ,;r.:.-.....,:.- ..... ---=v--- -~~,--- •. ---.,..~-,....-:--~· ... -·.,.,..._.-o;~~·'C\~ .. ,~~~~=::.::.._.:::.-.:_-··- ·---:-~·.-~:;:.·~-:.·l,.-~ -:::.:.:...:-.::;_ _:::_:..:.:;;:,=-:~-J::· :;::,,..:::;:-r· ~~~.:.::= .... :..:::~:~~..:::::::;;;.-~~._.,.--~_- ... . - -------~- ByE»UCUPMAN Staff This past Thursday, Union '' udents were treated. to the :astes of culture, as New York's -l.,..ron Hill brought thei<- f11re tu ampus. Bille~~ <>:o 11:1 ir!- :·oduclinr. tr· wirw lastin;.;. tl!t\' .tftemoon wa.~ a .pleasant mix of .<i! efforl to educate as well a:-: 'wbriate Clinking our giasse:- ,rHl !-tHmpling eHdl of.thost> tlwc ,,~_·reset ()UL, we nu doubt. were oart of the marketing success of :rte year. wines which have less glycerin. The next step is to smell the wine. Consider·ing that much of our sense of taste is actually our powerful sense of smell, i<. makes sense w give our nose u little prt>vit\''· Orw cautwna:\~· note. howev~··: you can easil} Sj%t .-;om,·: ''1~· wh~· hiiu\Lc. nothing at all about wint: becaust· wlw:! i1 curm·~, ~v smellin~. th seiectiun. the: inn~vit ;1h!.y .;'t~y · '··~/i:· l that I!:;.: .. a w.onderful bouquei . . \ Th1~; iine, r havt' noticed, is par- ticularly popular among those pretending to be exper-ts on the subject. It was so for me, because I was grateful to the winery not l•nly for the free drinks but also !or revealing the an too secret art of wine tasting. The presentation given by Laurie Bishop-an attractive Cornell co-ed, interning with Heron Hill as a sales representative---, would impart ~o us the tricks of the connisseur trade. As a review, I would like to share with you, the reader, what I learned. Finally, and it is by far the best step, is the tasting. We were instructed to curl the wine near the back of our mouth- close to the pallet-and, as politely as we could, draw air through it. The air, passing through the tiny store of wine· in our mouth, brings out those things which are most pronoWlced in the wine;s flavor. Dry wines at tbis point will taste crisper, while fruitier wines will taste like a whole produce department. Slurping~.as well, has definite advantages, as you can do as a wine taster what you could never do with chocolate milk as a child. Scientist-Adventurer Buckaroo Banzai (Peter Weller, second from left:· ano comrades·in arm~ (Left ·to rig.ht) Perfect Tommy (Lewis Smith), Nevv Jersex (J£>11 Goldnlumi and Reno (PeP! Serna) star in the 20th Century Fox film, \Buckaroo Banza1. [:] ·uckar Wine tasting, as the experts do, is different from just wine drinking, as the former is really putting three senses to work. The real aficionados use their eyes and their noses, in addition to their pallets. The first step_ is to look at your glass of wine. White wine should be golden-clear .. and of one consistency throughout. A white wine with a brownish color signals that air has gotten into the bottle and that the wine has begun to mold. Good red wines wm have a full and solid color and also be of one consistency. By swirling the wine along the nside of the glass, the taster \an tell a great deal about a ''~inc, even before sipping. NRtching the wine as it drips !own along the sides of the glass ·md noting how fas'!: it does so, ··lues you into thr. \glyceri.ng ~·nntent\ of vour selE'ction. A nJ!-hodied v:ine will have a high . :l yeerin content and v'?ill drip· 'TIOre slowly than the lighter The Heron Hill selections run the gamut from dry table wines to their sweet \Ravat\, any of which would be a good choice for an evening's tasting. In fact, Heron Hill's\ Aurora\ has even made it into that beer drinking bastion: The Skeller. For the truly discriminating tastes with eight dollars to spend, the king of Heron HHI is without question the Reisling Johan .. nisberg. Laurie, our wine tasting tour guide, noted at the end of the run thr1t •Nine tastin ~ is important because Americans g!O'neraUy have been a\fraid of wine for manv vears. A':\> my final note. I can only sav that Heron Hill tastes too good- for u::; to be afraid of any longer. By DAPHNE CHIGAS Staff Remember the days of Batman; Superman, 'and Aquaman? Well, those days are 9ack in the form of 20th Century Fox's 'The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the Eighth Dimension.\ This rather bizarre tale of a comic book hero-crime fighter takes us back to the days of Saturday morning crime fighting car- toons so faithfully watched by so many of us. Buckaroo Banzai (played by Peter Weller of \First Born\ fame) is quite the Renaissance man. A top brai.t\l surgeon, scientist, crime fighter, and roc!~ 'n roll sL11r:er, the whole col.U1try rests its hope for safet) on Budmroo's shoulders, jus1. a:, Metropolis tllll'e did with Superman. Bttt Buckaroo is nu Sut.H:rmaH, !or Superman i.'> what we would can an aliell being. Buckaroo is just ~ plaii1 J . ~'~ ,.....,, -,-, T1 i·'l ' ':ll' ~ ~ i•J - ·< ' ~ 1 • ~' ~ ~ - - . • : . :·. ·• t:J::.\ ·'v . . . • . • .. , I. ·1 -nn ,nr dl> J 1 ~;; . 1r -~ rr t:! 3 fhJ CHl u_n:l0P: f.1 WJ.6 ~ - ~ W,j.. u, ~ -t..L - ~~ .:.f-1./ ~ ~·-- ~CY h· ' nntinued from pag~ J5 ·>'Cll with lhe article~ given to :<im from the audience: a shoe, ' crutch, anu u mace. (For .hose of you who haven\t taken nadieval history, a mace c.nn ,._. best descrihHl &s a vJel:lp0n \ith a ball, covered in spil•e.-:. .. ltich is cennecteu to a stick i..•y :, chain. 1 He had no trouble wi.Lh ~he shoe or the cruleh but the ·:1ace's weight distribution was :no much to handle ::md hi: was •mabie to juggle it. H wa:s runny • o see him try. though. Miehacl ;:nished his improvisation by 'angling the mace onto the ·rutch, plaeing the shoe m the ! angle, and balancing the r·rmglomeraUon on his forehead. l; ,, ,. Davis finished his second en- core by juggling three bowling b:1lls remarking, ''I don't know ii.\ l can do this. It's too windy in here.\ Michael Davis finished the ::;how to his third standing ovation of the night. F'oHowing the show Mr. Davb \',re>s invited to a reception v! studenLs and alumni in Miianc; Low1gc, which is above Hale I..:louse. There Mr. Davis can· di.dly spolte of his career, what he has accomplished, and what he wants to achieve in the ful.urc. VV'nen asked about whv he vias so successful Mr. Davi.s replied that, \I found things that the audience wouldn't walk away from.\ He also demon- strated his sense of humor saying, ''Anyone can succeed · with talent.'\ The group also !earned of his plans for the- future. While he stated, \I don't know what's going io hap~)en to me.'' he does have olans lr; do some writing in· the future. a · little po2try. and maybe even !'I play. Throughout iJie evenh•g ;vir. Davis provided those who attended a hilariously great time and hi~ unir.:sve brand of cometly and juggling skiH- will not be forgotten soon. Oh, by~ the--way, one group is respon· si.bie for this: tlv:: Sneaker s Fon.un. You guy~ an::· doing a great job. Keep it up! .. L '- '' I· !.! r: 1.: H 'j I old guy from New Jersey. So how does an average guy like Buckaroo get into the situation to have to save the world? Quite simply, Buckaroo travels through the eighth dimension (you physicists can figure that one out) in his converted Ford truck with the help of his Oscillation Over- thruster. You see, the good ' black aliens from Planet 10 have put their bad red coun- . terparts into the eighth dimension, hoping for them never to return. But with Buckaroo's Oscillation Over- thruster, these red aliens can return back to Planet 10. And su the war begins, the red alien::; trying to get the overt !lruster. and the .black aliens stoppinJC, ;;L nothing : incluciing 1hr~ desi ructioil uf tk Earth: t•) Prt'WRt tl'k red al.iens retw· .. :. T,~ complicate matters even morl'. nobody car; see the red alit-n~. except fe>r Bucka~·u•:, who c<m see them as a resuli ul' his ionization by the blat:h aliens (yes, Buckaroo is wcll- .known. even-on Planet 10 1 So Buckaroo and his gang, the Hong Kong Cavaliers, set ou. to save the Earth. Buckaroo';; gang members include he~'; Jersey (played by Jeff Gold- blum from \The B1g Chill\; Perfe::-t Tommy ' Played by Lewis Smlf.hJ, '.!\eno :'<ien,.; I played by Pepe ~nrnu i' anr; Rawhide \played hy l:lo.w·y Brownl. While pl<lymg 111 a:;,,~\·. .iHsey club. Buc\~anJo is \oinui by Penny Priddy (Ellel'l Barken from \Tender Mercies''; who turns out to be Buckaroo'::; deceased Wife's twin sister. Ol course, Buckaroo knows this right away. This is what Buckaroo Banzai is all about. Buckaroo Banzai and the Hong Kong Cavaliers are what one would call really laid back. Their matter-of-fact attitude toward the impending destruction of the Earth gives off the feeling that yes, Buckaroo is in fact, in control. 11le red aliens from Planet 10. on the other han.d, are quite the opposite. Their neurotic, Uf> tight behav101 is SG typic:•l. ~'~ 19:\0'.:; ser~<.l\ adventure Him~;. Tht red aliens are J.ed by Ltn\·~ J ohL Whorik;, wh,; has tahcu o·rer the bociv o-f Italian scien\i]Si Dr. Erni\.i o Lizarao l played t1: · Joh:; Litil).'_(lv:- ··Til;; 'i,', orL Accordin!! w Garp;· · 'F ootioo,·c, ·· '~Terms (if End~arn1ent~~ 1. L .. ;.~· in!.e~esting ~o note that ewr: one of the rerl aliens is namcl! Jol\m. Even the black alien:-. were named John. Bud<aroo Banzai is a 1n1'' Darody of our Saturday morniil. crime fighting days. If you v:<: r:l to lake a light, humorous lnnk , '' what occupied our time _ius: : f ev· vear:·-: ar:o, then _gr~ ~:;;: Bud~:aroo Ban7.ai. wh1ch -b t:o-.·.· pia~·in ,e a l t h ~! F o::··Col(•rli ( ~li1cat{?r And ren1Pmbtr, in ·,.~_lC vvcrcL: n!· t-~uck:.:'i\CH: H ~,;n n·1Pl; ~> ')s/1'•(-r'l· r-.:1! t~o. -~ncr-:: y111. 1 _ ;.n < ·

Page 18 Come and enioy • an even1ng of music with the Union College Concert Band and the Garnet Brass Quartet on Thursday, Nov. 15 • 1n Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. Free Admission There will be a mandatory meet ... ing for iuniors and· all others. in- terested in applying for medical and dental school for the entering class of Fall 1986. The meeting will be held by Dr. W. Roth on Friday 1 November 16 at 4:30 in room 5301 on the third floor of the Science and Engineering Buil- ding. A second meeting will be held on Tuesday, Nov. 20 at 12:30 in room 5301 for · all of those unable to attend the first. If you are I unable to make either of these 1 you must contact Dr. Roth's office so that an alternate meeting time can be scheduled. CONCORDIENS/.\~.N()I·emher 15, 198-1 THE BEST PART OF THE HUMAN VENT.URE STILL LIES AHEAD. WHERE am I heading with my life? HOW do I make good decisions? WHAT is the Lord asking of me? HOW can prayer help me? WHAT are my alternatives? if any of these questions strike home with you, consider taking some time out to try and find your answers . . . -sponsored by the Holy Cross Brothers, St. Joseph Ce.nter, Valatie, N.Y. 12184-· For Young Men: high school seniors & college age For more information or to register please contact: Brother John Zick, C.S.C. Holy Cross Brothers R.D. #3 Box 113 Valatie, New York 12184 518-784-3481 THE AWARENESS WEEKEND- For a 20\ x 28\ full-color poster of thos ad. send $6 00 check or money order payable to Anheuser-Busch. Inc Depf 11·0. One Busch Place. St Lows, MO e3118. Allow 4·6 weeks QHer expires December 31, 1984. Votd where prOhibited BUDWEISER®• I<INQ Of BEERS® • THIS BUDS FOR VOU '\'• ANHEUSER·BUSCH INC • STlOUIS ' i ( + ( .s: (

CONCORD/ENS/,\~ Nm·emher 15. 1984 Page 19 Skaters Blast D-1 Colgate ScottWykoH c co E +- 0 '- !ll c co 0 >- .0 0 +- 0 .s:: Q. ByALWHITE Sports Staff For the first time in several years, the Union Golleg.e Skating Dutchmen have begun a new season without a sour taste in their mouths, as in years past. No more \if only\ regrets from returning players who remembered games from the past year they should have won but lost, thus j:ust missing a playoff birth. No more com- plaints that ECAC judg(:ls were biased aga~st them, picking So now with the new season upon us, there's no sour taste and Union will go undefeated and will win the ECAC's and the NCAA's, right? Well, no, not exactly. This pa~t summer, Sean Teevens, last year's assistant coach, tried feeding lemon juice to the Dutchmen faithful by taking a job at Princeton this season. Teevens did a great job for Union, and last year he was the main reason why the squad reached its peak by playoff time. But Morrison did Senior Co-Captain Gill Egan put the Skating Dutchmen into a 1-0 lead early in the fir.st period against Colgate. The Dutchmen beat Colgate 5·2. other teams for the playoffs that were less qualified. No more pointing fingers at coach Charlie Morrisson due to their failures, questioning whether he should even be in Schenectady at all. Nope. No more excuses. · This time around they don't need any, for Union came one game away from winning the NCAA Division III tournament, and if they hadn't played in a marathon 4-overtime game the night before, they would have been the champions. Well, OK, so there's one excuse, but that one is legitimate-the point is, it happened not because they choked, but because they foqght their hearts out the night before, and they walked out of Rochester with their heads high. ' something right ·by im- medi;.tteiy hiring Mark Morris, a Colgate grad who just ended a three year pro hockey stint. Both coaches are determined to make the transition a smooth one. Teevens will be missed, but Morris appears to be up to the task. So when March rolls around the Dutchmen hopefully won't have to look back at this change and make it Excuse '84- '85. Granted, the jury is still out, but judging by Union's exhibition win over McGill and their impressive victory over Division I Colgate in their first regular season game, the ,Dutchmen have continued right where they left off. One marked difference is the style of their game. Though with players like Gill Egan, Curt X-C~untry Falls Short By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff While the football team was battling Hamilton in the mud last Saturday, the men's cross country team was battling identical conditions at the Clinton, New York school in the NCAA Qualifier meet. In what turned out to be the last meet of the year for the Dutchmen, Union scored 192 points to finish in seventh place out of the 19 teams competing for a trip to the NCAA Nationals in Ohio. Needing to place in the top eight to go individually, Union's lead runner Chris O'Connell missed by nine places finishing 17th in the meet in a time of 26: 12. · Finishing behind O'Donnell was sophomore Mike Reed, who has taken over the number two spot on the team in the last couple meets, in 31st place with a time of 26:31. Placing third for Union was junior Bill McRoberts in 26:51. Fourth and fifth place for the Dutchmen were held by sophomores Neil Ricks and Bob Stenard who each finished in 26: 53 and 27:08 respectively. James Quinn from Ithaca was- the individual winner in the race while St. Lawrence, second in the State Meet the week before, took the team honors with 58 points. They were followed by Albany, Fredonia, RIT, Rochester, Ithaca, and Union. Behind Union in eighth place was Cortland who had beaten the Dutchmen at the State Meet. The Dutchmen finished their season on a positive note knowing next year the entire team will be back and stands a good chance of moving up in the rankings. They will be led by O'Donnell and McRoberts who will be seniors along with Tim Orcutt who finished 6th for the tam on Saturday. Reed, Ricks,· and Stenard will be juniors while the 7th man for the Dutch- men on Saturday, Pat DiCerbo, will be a sophomore. Coach Ebbets and his squad now turn tlfeir attention indoors in preparation for the indoor track season. For the last couple weeks of fall term before Christmas break the track team will be in the Memorial Field House preparing for. the Dart- mouth Relays sched~ed for January fourth and fifth. Cole, and Jamie Knight, they aren't offensive slouches, Union's game plan has changed in that they played the man ·closer than they had under Teevens. \Mark has stressed to the players to follow through on their hits this year,\ coach Morrison stated, and anyone who witnessed Cole's hit against Colgate could attest to that. The players.seem to be in full support of this· style. ·\It gives us a totally new dimension to our game,\ explained sophomore defenseman Duane Joyce. \Morris has that professional hockey ex;perience that gives him a different angle on the game than what we're used to. I think we'll surprise some people.\ Joyce is part of a defensive unit that has remained intact from last year. He skates with senior T.J. Ryan, and Dave Appleby, Gavin Morton, Dave Weiss, and John Mackenzie round out the defense. In their first game, no one was better suited to score Union's first goal against Colgate than Gill Egan, who is. closing in on several Union scoring records. Jamie Knight, who co-captains with Gill, tallied the second goal of the game. The Dutchmen never looked back after that. Their 5-2 vic- tory was solid in all aspects, and considering it was against a formidable Division I foe in Colgate, this most certainly is a harbinger of the remainder of the season. On Sports A lot of Dutchmen football fans were happily surprised when they got word that, despite the bitter loss to Hamilton, their Grnet had once again been offered a post- season berth. Better yet home field. A late season loss by Union sent the Div. iii selection committee to the proverbial \smoke filled\ room for a second straight year. Coming into last week's games there were three undefeated teams in contention for two playoff berths. Plymouth State defeated Curry College to end its campaign while Hofstra and Union lost to St. Johns and . Hamilton respectively. The selection committee was then forced to choose between four teams with one loss each (Hofstra, Ithaca, Norwich, Uhion). \We were clear that we had Plymouth State,'' said Rocky Carzo, NCAA selection committee chairman. ''Then we wanted to find somebody who had a justifiable reason for being in the playoffs.\ To make a long story short, Union had been ranked higher than any of the teams all season so they got the invitation. Norwich had already lost to Plymouth St. earlier in the season, Ithaca had not shown up in the rankings aH years. Due to those factors both schools were out of the running. When the committee compared Hofstra and Union they reasoned Union had been ranked ahead of our friends to the south all season and the Dutchmen walked all over the Flying Dutchmen last year so they gave the bid to Union. BagnoL i and his players are grateful for another crack at the national championship and after the loss to Hamilton had settled in Bagnoli com- mented, \The game left a bad taste in our mouths. We want to ma~e sure it doesn't happen again.\ · Remember what happened when he said that last year. Crew Row Away Serum Report: With all the publicity afforded the football team's quest for a national championship, a group of Dutchmen Rugby players ac- complishments have not received the print they are due. Two weeks ago a group of five players from the Union Rugby Club traveled to Rochester to tryout for the Upstate Rugby Union All-Star team. There were twenty positions available and when the final word came down all five of the lads from Schenectady made it. Doug Baumgarten, Scott Collins, Jim McNeil, Mead Swnrners, and John Friske were the five Dutchmen to earn a spot on the team that has quite an exciting schedule. Last week the Upstate All-Stars traveled to the Bronx to battle a tough New York All- Star squad. It took the Upstaters a while to get going and when it was all over they ended up on the downside of an 18-14 score. This Saturday the five Union ruggers will have to catch the late evening news to see highlights of the football playoffs because they will be in Syracuse to take on the Patomic Rugby Union All-Stars. They finish up their post season schedule over Thanksgiving weekend as they head down to the city of brotherly love. By SANDY NAGLER Sports Staff As the rest of the campus was retiring from a night of carousing, the Union Crew Team w~s just awakening. They left Union at 5:45 a.m. for what was supposed to be a four hour bus ride to Rochester for the second annual I-lead-of-the- Genessee Regatta. However, at 8:45a.m. a loud bang was heard from the front of the bus. Pow! The front tire blew out. The bus driver managed to pull over and steer us clear of the cornfields outside of Syracuse.· This, however, did not dampen the spirits of the rowers. as they waited patiently for three hours until they once again began their journey. Union arrived in Rochester at 12:30 p.m. and immediately sent out two men's shells. They rowed against Ithaca, Rochester and Mercyhurst colleges in the novice eights division. The men entered a total of five boats, all of which finished within ten seconds of each other. The best time in the first heat, 17:34:55, was stroked by Chuck Lane, Geoff Camuso, Matt Hopkins, Carl Schuldt, Lloyd Maliner, Paul Empto, Dave Jones and Brad Spitz. This gave Union a second place finish behind a strong Ithaca Crew. In the second heat, Union captured third place with a time of 17:31:55. This shell was rowed by Spitz, John Ciavacco, Meserve Platt, Schuldt, Tom Christopher, Steve Tulevech, Jeremy Lorge and Brendan Cassidy. The women did not far as well. They entered two novice eights which finished strong but not enough to place in their heat. The fall season is now over and the team is beginning to prepare for dry land work-outs in the winter. The rowers are also working on raising some money for their young club. On Friday night, Nov.16 at 10 p.m. in the Skeller, Stroh's brewery will be sponsoring \Crew Night.:· Raffle tickets can tie purchased in Carnegie or from a team member for $1. Prizes to be awarded include: pool table lights, mirrors, hats, beer lights, t-shirts and more! ! So come on down to the Skeller, have a Stroh's and help the Crew Team keep on rowing. See you there! Sidelines: Hats off to the Union College Cheerleaders for yet another banner campaign. Led by Captains Sue Serenska and Amy Soloman, the women in Garnet have traveled all over the great northeast to root on Al Bagnoli's gridders. Over the last four years this organization has grown to be an important part of Union's football program. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS TICKET INFORMATION Tickets for Saturday's first round NCAA Division Ill playoff game went on sale earlier today. Tickets will be on sale today until 5 p._m. and from 9-6 tomorroyv at Alumni Gym. The prices are: · Non-reserved bleacher seats- $5 General Admission- $3 Gen. Admission- Students w/1 D- $2 C 1 ticket per I D) Gates for Saturday's game will open at 10:30 a.m. and kickoff is at 12:30 p.m.·

+- - ·;: ,_ QJ ~ .... ctl 0.. > ..0 .2 0 ..c Q. Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS. November 15, 1984 SPORTS .. . host Plymouth St. Sat. Continentals Upset Dutchmen By TED CANNON Sports Staff Last Saturday in Clinton, New York, the Hamilton Con- tinentals took a perfect season out of Union's hands by pulling off the upset of the year 10-3. Despite compiling 280 total yards to just 175 for Hamilton, the Dutchmen simply could not put the ball in the endzone. Union's best chance to score came late in the first half with a first and goal at the two, with only two seconds left, but senior quarterback Dan Stewart's pass sailed out of the endzone incomplete. The only points Union could post came in the third quarter as iunior placekicker Greg Sticka, despite swampy conditions, drilled a 22-yard fieldgoal. Although Hamilton did come a way witb a touchdown via a Seamus quarter fieldgoal, Union's defense held them at bay most .of the game. The key factors in the upset had to be Union's seven tur- novers to none for Hamilton, and the muddy condition of the field. 'The turnovers time and again seemed to disrupt a Union drive, and the field conditions did not allow Union to fully use its team speed and quickness, for which the Dutclunen are well noted. Despite Union's loss, however, your Union Dutchmen will host the 1984 NCAJ\ Eastern Regional Championship this Saturday. The Dutchmen were granted a bid thanks to St. John's defeat of Hofstra last Saturday. Union, 8-1 will play host this Saturday at 12:30 p.m. to the Plymouth St.Panthers.(ltf. OJ The game appears to be a solid matchup.- The Panthers have won the New England Football Conference title each of the last four years, averaging 36.5 points a game, whil~ allowing only 7.8 points a game. The Dutchmen on the other hand have playoff experience. The Dutchmen traveled all the way to the National Cham- pionship last year only to come away with a disappointing loss. Union has waited all season for a chance to claim what they so much desire and so narrowly missed last year, the National Championship! • e .playoff preview Hami.lton Hl Fredonia 2 GAR~ETSCOREBOARD FOOTBALL (8·1) MEN'S SOCCER (12-2-1) Post-season Play MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY Union3 Union 1 Placed 7th at the NCAAQualifier out of 19 teams HOCKEY(l-0) Unions Colgate 2 J.V. HOCKEY (1·1) Northwood'9 Union 8 Union 1 Amherst Jr, Kni.ghts 3 Dutchmen Sportsweek Nov. 15-21 Thursday ll/15 Hockey at North Adams 7:30p'.m. Saturday 11117 Football vs. Plymouth State 12:30 p.m. Support Union . · Sports Gridmen Get 2nd Chance By SCOTI WYKOFF Sports Staff - :i!:f: \ . \\' On paper it looks too close to call. Each team has balanced attacks. Emotions have been at a fevor pitch. All the ingredients that go into a playoff recipe will be mixed together Saturday when the Union College Dut- . chmen look to defend their 1983 NCAA Eastern Regional Championship as they take on the Plymouth State Panthers. Senior tailback John Johnson had a good day on Saturday as he rushed the ball 27 times for 134 yards. Playoff Notes By SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff The defensive units of the two squads are both very stingy and like to take the ball away from the opposition. The Panthers defensive unit has allowed an average of 189 yards a game. The Dutchmen defense has given up 198 yards a game while only letting their opponents score a total of 31 points in nine games. Both squads have forced over 40 turnovers. Union has been invincible on the astro-turf the last two seasons. One would have to go back three years to find a loss for the Dutchmen on the turf. Plymouth State plays on the real stuff at home but does enjoy the artificial substance. The Panthers are known for their speed and played quite well in their only astro turf game of the year at Westfield State. Saturday's game will match two of the nation's most respected up and coming small college coaches. Al Bagnoli and Jay Cottone have enjoyed a great deal of success with a similar low key approach to the game. Bagnoli maintains an even keel win or lose. Cottone tries not to ever get too excited and has been known to don dark sunglasses on the sidelines. terviews will have to put their microphones and notepads on ice for ten minutes as the NCAA likes to give each team a ten minute cooling off period after the final gun. Don't be surprised Saturday when you look down on the sidelines and don't see as many players in tmiform as during regular season home games. The NCAA only allows each squad to dress 48 players for tournament games. The Dut- chmen have dressed as many as 85 players for a home contest this fall. Over the last few years, Plymouth State and Union have built football programs that have received quite a bit of national publicity. A lot of credit must go out to the Sports Information Directors of the respective institutions. Plymouth State's John Garner and Union's George Cuttita have shown they know how to effectively hype their teams while also accommodating the working press. During the playoffs, the home team is responsible for the game program and credentials while both office's phones ring off the hook. Garner and Cuttita will talk to each other via Ma Bell at least once a day this week. Plymouth State will travel to Schenectady via bus tomorrow morning and hava a full work out on the turf in the afternoon. The winner of the Plymouth- c Union game will travel to the tO northern region next weekend .§ to play in the semi-finals ~ against the winner of this c: Saturday's Augustana-Dayton ~ contest. There will be a >- weekend off after the semi- .o 0 finals and the Stagg Bowl will '0 \The match up could not have been better,'' says John Rice, ''these teams are so loaded on both sides of the ball. This should be one heck of a football game to watch.\ John Rice should know. He's the Editor of the New England Footbail Newsletter, known as \the printed voice of small college football in the Northeast\. Rice has seen Plymouth State and Union play on numerous oc- casions over the last few years. \Without a doubt it should be a great one\ says Rice. The Dutchman are making their second appearance in the NCAA tournament while this post season NCAA stuff is all new for the Panthers. In fact, Plymouth State is the first New England team ever to be selected to the prestigious event. Over the last four years the green and white have been passed over by the NCAA despite an incredible 38-3 record over the period. Rice com- ments, \They haven't gotten to go in the last three years and they thought they richly deserved a bid at least one of those seasons.\ Convincing wins at the hands .of strong Norwich and Western Con· necticut teams match~d with an tmdefeated campaign gave the selection committee no other choice but to give the boys from the granite state a bid. \We're thrilled about getting into the NCAA's.\ said Plymouth State's receiver coach Mike Currier, \We're also pleased about getting a chance to play Union. Playing a nationally recognized team will do alot for our program.\ Union's head man Al Bagnoli says, \I think it's about time they were in· vited, they obviously have a. very good football team.\ Despite the tough loss last weekend to Hamilton, Bagnoli's troops are elated to get another chance at a national cham- pionship. One year ago, the garnet took full advantage of their second life by knocking the feathers out of a previously undefeated Hofstra team. The scenario has a new . twist this year with the Dutchmen being awarded home field for the first rotmd. Coming into .the post season on the heels of defeat, Bagnoli feels fortunate that his squad will be playing at home .. \Psychologically more than anything else, it will help us. Being at home and playing on a fast track should help us alot\ said the third year Dutchman coach. When you look at the stats, Plymouth State appears to have the strongest offensive tmit the Dutchmen have yet to have seen. The Panther's most potent offensive weapon is Junior All- American tailback Joe Dudek. Dudek has averaged 138 yards a game while ptmching the ball into the endzone on 21 oc- casions. \He's a slashing kind of runner,\ says Rice, \though he doesn't look it, he's a very powerful and elusive back.'' Panther assistant Currier is also high on the Junior tailback. \Joe's an ipstinctive ball player who's plainly and simply a natural,\ Currier said. Fullback Connell Daniel gives Head Coach Jay Cottone a fine one-two ptmch out of the back- field. Rice agrees, \It's not all Dudek, ·Daniel gives them a balanced backfield attack.'' Plymouth State signal caller Larry Cummings shows even better statistics than his Dut- chmen counterpart Dan Stewart. Rice was quick to point out a key similarity between the two signal callers. \Both guys are brilliant at coming up to the line, reading the defense, and switching off.\ One Dutchman who e_njoyed a fine day last Saturday was John Johnson. The Senior has had a banner punch out campaign averaging just under a 100 yards an afternoon. In the muck and mud in Clinton,Johnson was a bright spot in a rather bleak Union performance rushing for 134 yards on 27 carries. Dan Stewart did not enjoy the best day of his career Saturday but he hasn't offered any excuses, even though his grip on the ball was severely hampered by an injury to his hand. Back to back bad days have been few and far between during Stewart's career. Dan has been practicing well all week and is chewing at the bit waiting for Saturday's kickoff. The Brian Cox led Dutchmen defensive unit have carried . the offense through tough times before and despite Saturday's loss is still ranked amongst the top in Div. III. A lot of time has been put in during the week to prepare the athletic omplex for Saturday's NCAA tournament game. The NCAA dictates that all fans in attendance must have pur- chased a ticket to the game. Fences will be erected to control access to the field while ropes will be employed to mark off reserve seating. All media will be issued credentials while access to the sidelines will be tightly controlled. All those reporters who run down the field after the game to get in- be played at the College '§. Football Hall of Fame in Kings Island, Ohio on Saturday, December 8. Fullback Grant Foreman ·(23) played an instrumental role in the booters' success this season. The Dutchmen lost to Fredonia 2-1 to be eliminated from post season play. \We feel fortunate to have another chance at a national championship,\ said Bagnoli. \I feel we have nothing to. lose. We should be loose and con- fident on Saturday but we'll just have to wait and see.\ Currier thinks the Panthers will be at their best for the first round game. ''We really began to peak a couple of weeks ago. We feel the kids are ready to give Union a great game,\ says the Plymouth State assistant. \ ·~· ( If> ctl Ol .r::: v QJ c .r::: Q. ro 0 > .c 0 0 .r::: Q.

