.-----Orientation '84 liege 1877 CXIV, No. 1 \ A ' SchenectCJdy, New York 1 September 13, 1984 To Join or Not to Join? \Memories ... lightthe corners of my mind .... \ By 'DIANE SADAK Orientation Committee To be, or not to be, involved in extra-curricular activities is often a tough decision in a collegE\ as academically demanding as Union. There are so many different clubs and activities to become a part of .. . how does one decide not only what to become involved in, but also, to wbat extent that in- volvement should be carried? Often, to make the decision more difficult, there are parents, professors, and peers ready with well-meaning, but confusing, advice. To add yet another voice to that crowd I, myself a senior who is ad- mittedly over-extended in the area of club involvement, would like to place my own two-cents out to you in the hopes of .. passing on sc;>me of what ex- perience has taught me. First of all, know what is available to you at Union. Besides the clubs, which will all be represented at the Club Expo soon-to~be-appearing at Car- negie, there are always guest speakers, athletics, committees Welcome Class of '881 By THE ORIENTATION COMMJTI'EE \The Way We Are.\ Four simple words which have been used to predicate any number of different thoughts (especially during Ot.ientation '84). But there is more to that particular statement than what merely meets the eye. At Union, there is a long history behind what we are. There is a certain feeling among the students and faculty, there is that' special som~thing that makes us the way we· are. The theme for this year's Orientation has been chosen by the Orientation Committee because it is believed that the best way to introduce new students to life at Union would be to show them the way we are, and in addition, to explain why - we are the way we are. The way we are is a group of unique individuals. The stress is on the word individual because that quality of individuality is part of what makes Union such a special place. Here, people are given the opporttmity and the means by which they can ; expand on their own in- ~ dividuality in conjunction with 05 their peet·s. We are a student >- body in which unique talents ~ and interests are respected and :E admire~ by the populus, and ,., perhaps even . more . im~ ~ portantly, in which those \0 pursuits by students are sup- £. ported by the whole. Why we are the way we are is perbaps an easier question to answer. Instilled in a Unionite is a . sense of a very prestigious history-a championship football as well as.soccer team; the first college radio station in the nation; the first fraternity in the country; the only sixteen sided building in this hemisphere; award winning faculty; alwnni which include 15 U.S. Senators, 91 Congresspeople, 13 governors, one president; and one major film. \The Way We Are\ \The Way We Are\ has another meaning for the Union • community. Ten years ago film greats Robert Redford and Barbara Streisand came to Union to film part of the movie The Way We Were. Using such notable features of the College as the Nott Memorial, Carnegie Hall, Jackson's Gardens, and, of course, the ever popular Chester Arthur statue, these mavens of Hollywood propelled the College grounds into motion picture history books. They chose Union as the site for the filming because of the unique atmosphere available here; they chose Union because of the way we are. Welcome to the Class of 1988! Welcome to the Way We Are!!! You are Here l! ! (:.Such as the Orientation Conunittee which organizedthe five day joy-ride you en- countered when you first arrived), concerts, aNd com· munity service groups which are always ready for a new face and a helping hand. Lists of clubs and committees, too numerous to mention here, can be found in both the Freshman Record and tbe Union Catalog .. . which can be fotmd amidst the 36 other items stuffed into your Orientation packet. After you are more aware of the opportunities and choices Union presents, you are ready to make a more informed decision. It is important to remember: It is your decision. Parents tend to argue in favor of a strictly academic adjustment period. Although it is wise not to sign up for ·aU 13 clubs you find in· \When considering a club, it shows more leadership and responsibility if you find something you really enjoy. Then stick with it and make something of yourself within the organization you have chosen.\ teresting at the Club Expo, extra-curriculars do provide a great social base to begin from, as well as serve as a con- structive diversion from the inevitable pressures that courses bring with them. Beware of over-zealous professors who plug their own academic societies. Remem- ber, you may, as I did, begin as a bio-chem major boWld for med school only to switch over to poly sci-eco heading for law school or business. J wnping into the Pre-Med or Pre-Law societies because they will F \look good on your transcript\ is definitely unwise. If you enjoy those societies . . . fantastic. That is what extra-curriculars are all about. As a professor of mine once said, when con- sidering a club it shows more leadership and responsibility if you find something you really enjoy. Then stick with it and make something of yourself within the organization you have chosen. In a school Union's size anything can happen. You can make a difference. What have you got to lose? Maybe one tenth of a grade point or a little sleep, but in 15 years what will it be about Union that you will really remember? l am not knocking the academics, after all, that is why we are all here. I guess what I am saying is let. the myriad of opportunities at Union make your experience even more worthwhile. You will be helping yourself and your college grow. As preachy as thatmay sound, just thinkabout it ... it is really true. Looking back I see sleepless nights and unbelievably hectic days, cramming for exams, pulling all-nighters for papers, and standing in the middle of the theater at 3 a.m. wondering why I do it. But more importantly I see very special friends who I have shared a lot with. I have more private jokes and memories than I can cotmt, and a sense of pride in ac- complishment that being in- volved with a club that you care about can bring. Talk to your fellow students. Most ()f them are more than willing to provide lengthy, glowing endorsements for their own organizations. They will even give you a helping hand with getting in- volved. By the way, you may hear a nasty rwnor going around about a lot of apathy on campus. P~rsonally, I prefer to focus on the positive instead of com- plaining about the negative. See you at the Expo! ! ! w E R L c 0 M E E ·5 H M E N

<I! ro Cll .c u (j) c .r;: 0. ro a >- .0 0 .,.._ 0 .c 0. Page! OONOORDIENSIS, September 13, 1984 Dean Massa Profiled ·'--',: .,_ ·'· ,_, .· \. ;:. ' Assistant Dean of Students Robert J. Massa By mE ORIENTATION COMMI'ITEE As a Unionstudent progresses through the school year and becomes accustomed to our College environment .• one name will stand out and be remem- bered, \Dean Robert Massa\. Deans threughout the year have been stereotyped and com- pared to the strict, unemotional, non-bending, anti- fun elder, we first experienced in the movie Animal House. Dean Wermer provided coHege communities with a person to hate. His ill-tempered and gest.a!)o·like tactics enhanced our reluctance to communicate with our deans and avoid c~nfrontations at all costs. High College Costs Appear Leveled Off I myself ()Ver the years have · built up stereotypes and .self- defense me~hanisms in order to avoid seeing the dean around campus. Bat, within the past year and 11 half, my ill feelings. were broken dawn afte~ meeting Dean Massa. He is not at all like the old man in the back office that we learned to hate. Dean Nassa is very easy to communicate with, straight .. forward and helpful in any way possible. M11ch of Dean Massa's cooperative attitude towards students stems from hi's background, ex;perience, and educational record. Dean Massa graduated: and received his B.A. and Masters degree from the University of Rochester in 1972' and 197 4'., respectively- After completing his Masters, he obtained his Doctorate f.r-om Columbia University in 1980. (CPS)-The total cost of attending college this school year will increase only six percent over last year, a new report by the College Board concludes. Over the last few years, says College Board President George Hanford, college costs have increased 10-to-11 percent a year as colleges boosted tuition to keep pace with high interest rates and inflation. The comparatively small increase in this year's college costs marks what many experts hope is an end tp the double- digit cost increases of the last several years. At public schools, moreover, the increase amounts to only a five percent rise over last year, making the total cost $4881 for four-year resident students, and $3998 for students at two-year schools. Private College Fees Increase Private school students aren't faring quite as well. Costs of attending private colleges are up seven percent over last year, for a total cost of $9022 at four- year schools and $7064 at two- year institutions, the study of over 3000 schools nationwide reveals. Total college costs in the survey include tuition and fees, books and supplies, room and board, personal expenses, and transportation. While total costs will rise only six percent this year, however, the study also shows that tuition and fees will increase eight-to- nine percent at both public and private schools. Students at four-year public schools, for example, will pay average tuition and fees of $1126, while their counterparts at private colleges will pay an average of $5016. MIT Most Expensive The Massachusetts Institute of Technology will be the most expensive school to attend this year, the survey sho'Ws, where total costs will average $16,130. Bennington College in Ver- mont comes in second for a total cost .of $16,040 followed by Harvard at $15;750, Pr-mceton at $15;625, and Barnard at $15,558. Yale, Brandeis, Tufts, Brown, and Sarah Lawrence College, in that order, round out the list of the ten most expensive schools to attend. But the College Board figures may be a bit deceiving, points out Meredith Ludwig with the American Association of State Colleges and Uni varsities (AASCU), which is conducting a similar survey for release later this fall. • \Many schools are still in- volved in the legislative process (for state funding) and tuition and fees haven't been. set yet,\ she points out. \We expect (this year's cost increase) to be a little less than last year's,\ she speculates, probably around ''siJl:-to-eight percent'' when all tile figures are in. The cost increases of the last few years came because colleges had put off things like building maintenance and salary increases dlll'ing the seventies in an effort to hold down tuition and fees, says Kathleen Brouder, associate director of College Board's Scholarship Services. This year's curtailment of cost increases, she adds, may mean colleges have finally caught up with Sllch deferred expenses. Costs co~d level off Now that inflation has sub- sided and mterest rates are down, agrees AASCU'S Ludwig, college costs could level off for a few years. But Ludwig and College Board officials are.q11ick to note they really aren't sure why Extra Freshman Records are now alailable in the Student Affairs Office at $7 per copy ATTENTION: September 18, 1984 at 9:00 p.m., there ·viii be a meeting for all who wish to work at West College Dining Hall. If you want to work, you must aHend. If you have a problem, please call Jenny X6193 costs increased so little this year. \Everybody's been saying it's because colleges have finally caught up with expenses and because the economy is better,\ she says. \But we're really just using that reason because there aren't any other explanations.\ His first college related job came in 1971-75, where he was the admissions and financial aid counselor at Columbia University. Fmm 1975-79 he was hired as assistant director of financial aid at Colgate University. In 1979-80 he became the assistant dean of - ~\ tl IJ'~B~~o WRUC Welcomes Freshmen! Sat., Sept. 15- Union Football vs. R.ochester Hear the No. 1 ranked Union D11tchmen on WRUC. Pregame Show at 1: OS p.m. Game time: .1:30 p.m. Exclusively on Union\s own radio station, WRUC, 89.7 B Sun., Sept. 16- WRUCOpen House 3rd Floor Carnegie Ha II . 6:30-9 p.m. We need DJ's, News & Sportscasters Wed., Sept. 19- Season Premiere of Sports line 7:30-8:00 p.m. Followed by repeat of footballbr()adcast at8 p.m. Sportsline- Mon., Wed., & Fri., 7:3()·8 p.m. Call and Win! R N c H A rewardjng $795 ._repast. • • • Every Sunday, you can enjoy a deliciou.schampagne brunch served in the refreshing atmosphere of our Brass lantern Restaurant. So come and relax over brunch at our Ramada - where we've- got a new world for you. RAMADA® INN 450 Nott Street, Schenectady,. NY Call for reservations (518) 370-7151. admissions at Colgate. At the onset of 1980 Dean Massa moved to the Niskayuna area with his wife Cary. His first contact with Union came in 1980-83 where he became the director of financial aid. In 1983 he moved to the assistant dean of students position, where he presently resides. This past summer, he and his wife hacl their first child, Haley Angela. As assistant dean, the responsibilities seem endless, Patience, cooperation, respect and time all play an intricate part in his weekly events. Dean Massa is responsi~ble for Orientation, Parents' Weekend and other special programs and college functions. He is also responsible for all fraternity management and serves as the advisor to the lFG (Inter- Ff'aternity Council).. Dean Massa is also the liason for tlie Student Concluct Committee, as well as advisor to the Student Forum and its committees. Currently he serves as the legislative affairs coordinator for the New York State College Student Personnel Asseciation. Dean Massa has brought to Union an air of professionalism and hard-working enthusiasm. The Orientation Committee appreciates his help with Orientation and looks forward to a prosperous year. Academic Register Errata: Page 23, right-hand column, paragraph 3, I i ne 4-- The correct reference is page 35, not page 149 as printed. Plea.se correct your copy! Open Evenin_gs ,til~ Zip woolloned TREN·CH COATS Cotton/Polyester, water repellent for year around weather portec- tion. Belted waist and sleeves. Regulars, shorts and longs. regular price 165. Sale $129 90 includes alterations 1 -JCQ.u ''l(F; ~fler (':1.\' )I ei'Cf)fl• .\ tof. ,.\'c,//1 \I bl \/I l ~ . ,, · y· qtni' (:/lot~'::r'j y ' \___,.\ltut /o;_; ~~-.- ~· 420 State Street • Schenectady Free Parking on Broadway Adjoining Our Rear Entrance Mastercard • Visa • Am. Express Squire Shop Charge Open daily til 9 • Saturday til $ By All ril not app too disa so far. are offt what lf: or you I not too, pro·bler. people t possibl· ministr~ pack, suggest genuine For E really roommll increas your eff do not SE Wood, tl life, is tt thethirc Wood an of stude Just ac1 Residen1 Food Se1 in charg1 with all relating Nowtl board cc wonderh this who: over tot (located the A rememb Ellen Fr there, rnultitud with fin money c Nowle room is , Tl (CPS)· freshma four-yea A just· State st Jean H researcl an aver:: their fi Women gain. And t up each 7.3 pouiJ 7.8 pot pounds, Many tening < says the \Resi pus) we: change student: cafeteri aren't c: The 2,400 dergrac respons weight, Results menqu of the v weight . Only weight, exercis Emo1 factors from h but H: people plannir: the infl student Noo: put on PennS The, Associl anyna the Pe1 1978 fE colleg, averag than tl · Yet·

the a ~in the ~ he past had ela. the ean for the ~an tHe as ent on. to sm ith d r J) OONOORDIIiJNSJS, September 13, 198_. PageS Who's Who to Help You By THE ORIENTATION be better and who the heck Massa, assistant dean of COMMI1TEE needs to worry about money students, is in charge of coor- anyhow? Let us face it; we are dinating a variety of ex- All right, as freshmen it does not appear as though anything too disastrous has gone wrong, so far. Good! That means you are off to a very good start. But what U something does come up or you have a question and are not too sure where to turn? No problem. Among the many people to help you in arty way possible, the College ad- ministrators are leading the pack, complete with suggestions, support and genuine concern. · For example, what if you really cannot stand your roommate, you are growing increasingly frustrated, and your efforts to work it out just do not seem to help? Well, Dave Wood, the director of residence life, is there to help. Situated on the third floor of Carnegie Hall, Wood and his staff are in charge of student housing on campus . Just across the hall from the Residence Life office is the Food Service office. JaJJ. Gray is in charge here, available to deal with all questions or problems relating to meal plans. Now that we have room and board covered, what if you are wondering about how t() pay for this whole deal??? Well, trot on over to the Financial Aid office (located in the same building as the Admissions office-- remember that fateful visit?). Ellen Frishberg is the director there, and can answer a multitude of questions dealing with financial aid and other money concerns. Now let us assume that your room is grl'lat, meals could not all here to study and learn a bit. tracurricular activities. These So, if any problem should arise include the Interfraternity where should you go? Well, Council (IFC), the Student Dean William Daniels, Forum, the Student Conduct associate . dean of un- Committee, and your favorite- dergraduate studies and Dean the ORIENTATION COM- Dene Kaplan, associate dean of MITTEE! Across the hall from faculty, are very helpful, student affairs (take a right at friendly people ready to give the top of the stairs on the main you a hand. The ·office is hidden .floor of Carnegie) is the office of just a bit, tucked away on the Lorraine Marra, coordinator of first floor of the Science and student activities. She can and Engineering Building. will answer any questions you Now let us turn to that ever might have about Union, popular question of career especiaUy with regard to clubs choice. Before you panic you and activities. 'can turn to Joanne Tobiessen Campus security is another and the entire Career Center important function on this staff, to help you decide what campus. Clifford . Wood, the you want to do. The Career , director of campus operations, Center is located across the deals with Union's Safety and street from the tennis courts Security Department, which that are behind the Alumni takes care of, among other Gym. Along with counseling things, student car registration, sessions to help you to define traffic violations, and constant your· career goals, there is a patrol to keep this campus as career library and plenty of safe as possible. resources available. Every The most highly respected year arrangements are made couple en this campl,lS is Dr. for interviews with various John Morrls, the president of companies \looking for new the College, and his wife, Enid. employees. {ijelpful hint: Keep You wHl see them around your eyes open for notices in campus quite a bit, as they love your mailbox about workshops to mingle with and get to know and internships. Sh.hh; you the students here. So if you see heard it here first! ) them, do not hesitate to go up Another crucial office on and say \Hello!\ campus is Student Affairs. Enough of this brief overview. Dean Joseph . Mammola, the The point to be made here is dean of students, makes many very simple: the administrators administrative decisions that are here to help you, and will, if deal with students in a variety they know what you need help of ways. Among these are with. Do not think twice about disciplinary problems, leaves of asking; they are good people, absence, and the initiation of and will do what they can. new campus clubs and Above all, enjoy yourself as you organizations. Dean Robert open your own doors!! There'sMoreToGain (CPS)-If you're a college freshman, arm yourself for a four-year battle of the bulge. A just-released study of Penn State students by nutritionist Jean Harvey and two other researchers reveals men gain an average of 9.1 pounds during their first year of college. Women average a nine-pound gain. And the extra pounds sneak up each year. Sophomores gain 7.3 pounds while juniors put on 7.8 pounds and seniors 6.5 pounds, the study -found. Many students blame fat- tening dorm food, bat Harvey says the study exonerates it. \Residence (on or off cam- pus) wasn't a factor in weight change,\ she states. \So students' claims tb.at dorm cafeteria food caused the gains aren't accurate.'' The questionnaire, sent to 2,400 Penn State un- dergraduates, drew about 1,000 responses to 36 questions about weight, eating and exercise. Results show 67 percent of the men questioned and 62 percent of the women admitted gaining weight. Only senior respondents lost weight, apparently thanks to exercise, Harvey says. Emotional and psychological factors, such as living away from home, weren't surveyed, but Harvey has \a feeling people at Penn State are planning a study to detel'II14}e the influence of these factors on student weight gain.'' No one knows if all students put on pounds at the same clip Penn State students d(). The American College Health Association shows no record of any national surveys similar to the Penn State study, though a 1978 federal study determined college students were an average of six pounds heavier than the students of 1968. Yet ·overweig~~ students and health and nutritional concerns have prompted many colleges to implement diet and exercise programs. Wayne State University in Detroit bases weight control on behavioral methods to improve eating habits. Many student health clinics publish diet tips in campus newspapers, especially during the spring \get in shape\ rush. In 1982, Stanford developed a dorm ·nutrition program, posting nutritional information for cafeteria food. It listed the calorie, fat and cholesterol contents of each item it sold. A sinlilar program exists at the University of the Pacific in Stockton, Calif. Dietician Joan Nikirk calls it an \educati9nal program, mostly presented through posters and pamphlets to make students aware of basic food groups and nutrition.\ But the program has done little so far to change students' eating habits, Nikirk admits, although a survey shows 80 percent of the students are aware of it. \There's only so much you can do in the dining halls,\ she says. \Maybe next year we'll take a different approach.\ Orientation Committee '8.4 President John Morris Some Words OfLldvice \' By THE ORIEN'l'ATION COMMITIEE The summer be'fore entering college is the summer for ad- vice. Everyone gets in on the act; parents, brothers, sisters, grandp~rents, the mailman, and the family pediatrician . . . everyone! Of course, they are all giving conflicting advice: \Study hard,\ \Do not study,\ \Go out,\ \Stay in.'~ By the end of August, the typical freshman is thoroughly bewildered and has no idea of how to act or what to do at college. This article is for that freshman. It is a list of DO's and DON'Ts by an up- perclassman who once felt the same way. DO set some kind of work schedule that fits your own needs. A little discipline is aU it takes. DON'T get \married\ your first week. DO get to know people in your classes. It is easier to make friends when you know you have Orientation something in common. DON'T sltip a lot of classes. Each one costs your parents about fifteen dollars. DO get involved, wh.ether it be in a club, a team, or an office. Do something that will help you meet people with similar in- terests. DON'T expect to have everything your own way. Life is full of compromises. DO speak to professors when you have problems with courses. Although other students can be helpful, it is always best to go to the source. DON'T always study alone. Group study can be more ef- fective in many cases. DO go out! Go to parties, movies, plays, and other social gathering places. Enjoy yourself; these four years will be like no.other time in your life. DON'T panic .. Everyone goes through the same thing, and we all survive. Changes Made By2DBSorUC Orientation Committee A new and improved Orientation awaits this year's incoming freshman class. It begins with a switch from a four-day schedule to a five-day schedule, designed especially to handle all the newly planned ~~ .~ .c: u Cll c: .c: a. B ~ 0 0 .c: a. activities. These activities include an ice cream social sponsored by Vennon 's Finest, Ben & Jerry's; a walking tour of Schenectady; and what we think is the most special event, instead of the usual square dance, a special semi-formal that has been planned that will recreate the dance scene from the movie \The Way We Were.\ This film is the basis for this year's theme \The Way We Are.'' other changes include an increased residence advisor (RA) involvement, starting with selected RA talks on ''The Social Life at Union.\ There will also be more panel discussions for both parents and students than there has been in the past. Finally a serious effort has been made to make transfer students more a part of Orientation than they every have been before. What all these changes add up to for this year's freshmen is an Orientation that is bigger and better than ever! ! ! ! Writers Sought For Concordiensis x6155 >- ..ll: Ill c: E m ~ >- 1.. 1.. «< ..J £ 0 0 .c:: 0..

U) ltl .!? ..c u <II c: ..c Q. ~ >- ..Q 0 .... 0 ..c Q. en ltl Ol ..c u Ql c ,£ a. ~ >- ..Q E 0 ..c 0. Page 4 OONOORDIENSIS 1 September 1~J 1984 Co-Editors-in-Chiei Ga~le R()sen\field -a11cf !Marcy Burstiner Editors' Welcome The way we are, the way we were, the way, we will be. Union ts changing, and changing fast, although it has never reaUy stopped changing. Carnegie Hall \\''ill so<>n be r~built and a bright new long-awaited Student Center will arise out of the dust. Fox, D-av-idson, and West all have had faee lifts this past; sttmmer. The Arts building, Administration h:ui:ld:tng ~ anCI Silliman have all been renovated. recently. In addition, that lovely old and prese11. tly inadequate .Alumni Gym wUl finally receive a ~much needed overhaul. Changes, chmg,es before ollr eyes. Changes all around us. Schenectady is changing as well. The downtown area is being refurbish.ed; old :stores, restaurauts, and bars have left .andnew ones have come in. Changing places and with tll.ern, changing faces. The Class of 1~88. It has a nice sound to it. You are the new faces ~t Onion this year and you bring a new spiritoffre~lmess, of individuality. You notice some aspects of l.Jnion that many of us here may have forgotten aad Y<>U will .add some things t<> Union that m.an.y .of us would h.ave liked to have experienced earner. You are a :part 0f Union n<>w. You are Union College students. Be proud. Y<Ju a..re tll.e new Union. Look arouncl, meet friends, 'g-at.ller confidence, and then take charge. Union is srnall, and as such there is plenty of room for invoi vern. ent. Every organization need~ your help, your entil.usiasm and your ideas. Union is full of ol-d traditions. Y\ et every year new traditions spring 1.:1p, take hold, and soon become old memories. r'\he four years go by fast. Act now, become involved 11.ovv, speak UJlllOW as freshmen., as students; before you know it :you will be laughing and talking aboiit the til.ings yo1.1 did, the things you got started at lTnic:m, at your :first ReUnion. We at Ooncordi~nsi8 welcome you, the Class o:f 1988, to Union. We hope the changes you will experience thesE next four years will be better, challenging, ancl rnost of all, fun. Welcome! Richmond House Seriously, Can WeTalk? By THEORIENTATION COMMITTEE Dear Jane Doid, I'm a Freshman girl and am very concerned about my social life, mainly guys. What kind of courtship ritllals ·can I e~pect\? Dear Clueless, Signed, Clueless Well serieusly clueless, Union has some very exciting and interesting dating rituals. Once you have gone to the Skeller, Pub, and a movie together you are an \item\ on campus! Dear Jane Doid, Seriously, ean we talk about it? I mean who do these Skid- more girls think they are'? As a freshwoman I've had no ex- perience in dealing with them. How do I thwart the menace and get them off my turf? Signed, Have-had..:it-up- to-llere-with-8kiddies Dear Have-had-it•up-to-here- with-Skiddies, Well I mean seriously this is something we should talk about. Listen, first I suggest you read Vera's article on Skiddies . However from .past ex- periences, I have some ;good solid advice to get rid of these intruders. Why not go golfing on Psi Upsilon's roof, maybe you. will get lucky .and hit a ''Buf- fy''? . Dear Jane Doid, I'm a F,reshman guy and I feel very intimidated in my new environment. In high school I was the \Big Man On Campus'' and now I am just the ''Low Man On the Totem Pole\. Help! Dear Boris, Signed, Boris Being a female, I know your problem. It is something that most Freshmen men ex- perience. Be patient, you will find your niche. Dear Jane Doid, What do you do when your date spits a piece of food on your shirt by accident? Dear Lester, Signed, Lester Listen, this is serious. Can we talk? If· my date spit a .piece of food on my shirt,. I would throw it back! Dear Jane Doid, How do you tell your room~ mate his-her clothes need to be washed? Dear CC, Signed, Clean Clarence Be subtle, for example say, \You smell\. If that does not work, strategically place a box: of Tide ·in a location where your roonunate can find it easily. -Dear Transfers- By THE ORIENTATION COMMrrl'EE We, the writers of this article, understand your predicament. We were once transfers t-oo. We'd just like to offer you a little advice. '·'Indonesian Dialects?\ Do not panic when you find out that none of your credits transfer. They will ... even- tually .... And did your campus by any cnance have an ex- tensive program in Indonesian dialects? Perhaps you majored in it. Do not despair.· It is never too late to change majors. And then there are the questions, the ENDLESS questions! \Why did you transfer?\ We have a suggestion. Rather than telling the questioner the truth, tell him-her that you are not at liberty to discuss this issue, as it is between your father and President Morris. Along these same lines is the question, \What on earth made you choose Union?\ Tell them the truth, \I wanted to go to school in the country.\ And when people ask you if you like Union · better, just say, \Better than what?\ That ought to tell them just about nothing, except maybe that you are tired of answering so many questions. But seriously, enjoy your time here and do not worry, the transition will be very easy if you want it to be. Join Us Now Concordiensis is now seeking -persons interested in the field of College Jour- nal ism. We have positions available for students who wish to learn more about newspaper wri-ting, layout, editing, business, ad- vertising, photography and subscriptions. --------------------------------------------- If interested, fill• out this slip and return to box 2577 Name ____________________ Box _____ _ Phone ------------------------------- Editors-in-Chief News Editors Features Editors Advertising Editor Photo Editors Marcy Burstiner, Gayle Rosenfeld Sarah Calderini, Judie Steinhardt Dave Fitzgerald, Betsy Treitler Heidi Rosen Daphne Chigas, LarryKammsky CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie ijall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc.; Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-3526. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first {:lass matter . .Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $18 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS) and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB}. Office telephone- 370-6155 Moffett's Liquor Store YOUR FAVORrTE Ill( .. ·~ m IX:i tlutiS l,l Across from Field House 1505 VanVranken Ave. 346·0392 Serving Union College for Over 42 Years - •, -

our we of ~ol pt s. if OONCORDIENSIS, September ,!3, 1984 UNIO:N Fall Orientation Schedule 1984 Friday, September 14 8:3oa.m.- t2 Noon: 11:30 a.m.- 12:45 p.m.: ·t:oo- t:45p.m.: 2:00- , 3:oop.m.: 3:oo- 4:oop.m.: 3:45- 4:30.pm.: 4:00- 5;15p.m.: 4:30- 5:15-p.m.: 5:30- 7:30 p.m.: 7:30- S:30p.m.: 9:00- 12:\lo- midn~ht: Reqistta:tlon ·Orientation information and reQistration for all new students and parents, Continental breaRfast av- ailable. After -reijlistration proceed to residenc~halls. ''Welcome to Union Luncheon'' Buf- fet-style lunch will be served for new students and their families: hosted by Presiden t.and:Mrs. Morris. President's Convocation for the Class oE l~SS · President Morris of- ficially welcomes all new students and their families. I. Paren• Session: Academic Expec- tations for the Freshmen Year · Vice PresidemtD\Andrea and Faculty Precep- tors discuss what's in store for new students. H. Student Session: Ori~ntation Overvi~: Introduction to the Aca- demic E:i!Vironment -a discussion with Dean Da11iels. the Orientation Commit· tee-andselected faculty. President's geception ·President and Mrs. Mmris. members of the Administra- tion and faculty Will meet with new stu- dents and their families. l. Parent 'information Sessions a. Financial Aid b. careerDevelopment First Orientation Group Meetings · New stucl1ents will meet in small groups with faculty and student Orientation Advisors. The campus and life at Union wi II be di:swssed. II. Paremtinformation Sessions a. Student Life: Transition to Colleqe A discussion with the Dean and Assis- tant Dean:. of Students. Resident Ad- visors and the Associate Dean for Resi- dence Life. b. Oppl()rtunities for off-campus study · !he Director o! Union Terms Abroad ProQrams will discuss the Col- kge·s manv special programs. Dinner for all New Students Residence Hall Floor Meetings- Stu- c\ents will meet with their Resident Ad· visors and other floor residents. Ice Creaill Social- Enjoy Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream: \\Vermont\s Finest:\ and dance to music by WRUC Record Hop. Saturday, September 15 s:oo- 9~3oa.m.: 9:30- ll:30a.m.: 11:45 a.m.- 1:00 p.m.: t:oo- 2:5op.m.: t:00- 2:30 p.m.: 2:30- 3:30p.m.: 2:30- . s:oop.m.: 5:30- 7:30p.m.: 8:30- 12:00 midnight: Continemtal Breakfast Faculty .Advisin~ Brunch: Meet with faculty .informally. Tables will be ar- ranQed byrdepartment. Second Orientation Group Meeting · Faculty Ori.entation Advisors will dis- cuss the academic progr.am and regula· tions. Freshrnam Surveys · BrinQ #2 pencils lransitiom to Union: 'ftansfer Meet- ting · Session will include information on credit evaluation. financial assist· ance and 5pecial proQrams at Union. Divisional Meeti~s · Faculty will pre- sent an over\l\iew of offerinQS in each di\c>ision (!:'late: vou do not have to in· tend to major within a division to at- tend a pa.-ticular meetinQ. Use this time to explore options). I. Humar:~tties !!.Social Sciences Ill. Sciences IV. Engine.erin~,;~ HUOt9 SS016 Old Chapel BU204 CONCUR!RENT ACfi\7ITIES a. Group WaThinq Tours of Schenec- tady · lec1ves (by Orientation Group> every 20 minutes from the main gate on Union Str.eet. Sponsored by the Schen- ectady C~amber of Commerce· recep- tion at HOlliday Inn immediately follow- ing tour. b. Movies (at 3:30: to be announced) c. Video Shows (to be announced) Dinner for aU New Students (tables arranged l:lyr Residence Halls & floors) Semi-Formal Dance· \The Way We Are\ for all new students. OA5. FOA5 and RAs Sunday, September 16 Canne\?ie Hall Memorial Field :House Memmial Chapel Memorial Chapel Old Clilapel Jadson·s Gardens (alternate: Field House) 55016 Carnegie· Strauss LounQe Locations will be announced Memorial Chapel Strauss LounQe CarneQie Hall West Colle~e Hale House Hall LounQes West College West College West ColleQe Locations will be announced Groups 1-6 550!6 7-12 BU204 13-30 Old Chapel Banquet Room Carnegie 'Hall 55016 Dutch Hollow Pub West ColleQe & Hale House Alumni Gym . 9:00- ll:OOa.m.: New Studemt Brunch with OAs and RAs West College 11:30a.m.- t2:45.p.m.: i:00- 2:15 p.m.: 2:30- 6:30 p.m.: 7:30- 9:00 p.m.: 7:30- 9:00.p.m.: 7:30- 9:00p.m.: 9:00- mid.ni.qht: a) third Orientation Group Meetin~ · Important information regarding reQis· tration procedures. Add/Drop and card courses will be discussed. (Groups l-15) · b) Union's \Social- Environment'' What you need to lmow ·to survive at Union · A special discussion with se- lected Resident Ad\17isors. (Groups 16-30) A Repeat of thle above sessions: Groups 16-30 with OAs Groups 1-15 with ·RAs. New Student Picnic · Busses will leave every ten minutes from Carnegie Hall for fun and games oft-campus. Newman Club-Sunday Mass · Recep- tion immediately tollowinQ Mass in School Hall Protestant Ministry Council Recep- tion Jewish Student Union Reception a) cabaret Show b) Coffeehouse with student talent c) film Committee presents: \the Way We Were\ Monda~ Septem-ber 17 7:30- 9:30 a;m.: 9:00- 10:00a.m.: 9:00- 10:00a.m.: 10:00- 11:00 a.m.: 12:00- 1:30 p.m.: 1:00'- 2:00p.m.: t:00- 5:00 p.m.: 1:00- 2:\lop.m.: 4:00- 5:00 p.m.: 5:30- 7:00 p.m.: S:30- 7:00p.m.: 7:15- s:oop.m.: s:oo- 9:0()p.m.: 9:00- 12:00 mid~ht: Breahl\ast Special Academic Mee~s: Students may obtain information conceminQ: a) Undeclared Majors. b) health profes- sions .. c) pre-law. dllnstitute ol Admini· stration and Mana11ement Departmental Meetings · First Session · Students will meet with faculty mem bers in each department of interest to obtain speci!ic information. Departmental Meetinqs · Second Ses- sion . A chance to meet with faculty from a second department of interest. Lunch Reception for New Students: Presi· dent and Mrs. Morris will welcome students in Groups 1-15 to the Presi- dent's House. Class gegistration for Transfer Stu- dents. Academic 'Advising Meetings for Freshmen · Advisor's name and ap- pointment time included in Orienta- tion paci<et. Reception ior New Students: Presi- dent and Mrs. Morris will welcome new students in Groups 16-30 to the Presi- dent's House Dinner for Freshmen· with floormates and Resident Ad\7isors. Picnic for Transfer Stadents · Enjoy a buffet dinner with the Student Affairs staff and faculty. Final Orientittlon Group Meetin~: An opportunity to as!< last minute ques- tions and prepare for the Mandatory meeting to follow. Mandatory Meeting· for all new stu- dents. OAs and RAs a) Cabaret Show b) Coffeehouse c) Movie: \The Way We were\ Tuesday, September 18 7:30- 9:00a.m.: '9:00- 12:00 noon: 8:40- 12:()0 noon 9:30- 10:30 am.: 10:30- 11:30 a.m.: 11:30 a.m.- l:Oop.m.: 1:00- 5:oop.m.: 5:oo- 7:oop.m.: 9:0()- Breakfast Academic Advisin~ by pre-scheduled appointment Re~istration for Classes (By Groups) Career Development Workshop for Transfers (first session) Career Development Workshop for Transfers (second session) Lunch· Re~istration for Classes (By Groups) All-Campus Picnic ·Meet upperclass- men. faculty and staff for a gala celebra- tion of the star.t of the vear! Dorm Social Activities Locations will be announced \Locil'tions will be announced Girling Center St. John the EvanQelist Church Strauss L0unge Came(Jie Hall Banquet Room Cabaret Room CameQieHall Old Chapel 55016 West College Locations will be announced Locations will be announced Locations Will be announced West College Alumni Gym West College Dean of Students' Residence Locations will be announced Memonal Chapel CarneQie Old Chapel 55016 West Colle~;~e Alumm (iym Career Development Center Career Development Center We:>t College Alurnm Gvm Library Fteld (ratndate Wednesddy)

Page 6 OONOORDIENS18, September 13, 1984 . Invaders ·From Skidm,ore Hair Design Located on Corner of Broadway and Hamilton St. * 382-7956 * * *Student Discounts* * By VERA Orientation Committee Hold on! It's a bird, it's a plane, it's an invader from another planet. No, it's a \Skiddie\ (dictionary meaning not available). It is the duty of aU women students at Union College to warn incoming fresh- men women of this epidemic which plagues Union College men. How to spot a ''Sidddie\ This can be a very easy task once one knows what to look for. A Skiddie is likely to be visible at any fraternity party. She is placed .in the most strategic locations (near men) in order to easily surround her prey. This is known as the \meat market syndrome.\ What do they look Uke and what are their distinguishing characteristics? One of the easiest ways to spot a \Skiddie\ is by her dress. Her favorite patterns are checks and plaids. She enjoys wearing bright colors such as lime green and hot pink. Of course, no \Skiddie\ is seenwithout plenty of accessories: oversized earrings, add-a-bead necklaces, ~ loads of rings, and don't forget the pearls t But the sure-fire give away is :the overnight bag that every \Skiddie\ can be seen carrying into any fraternity party. If one is stiH unsure that she has spotted a \Skiddie then it ·~.~.~~.~ Tbe: Qpen Dmr 12&-1.36 ]<1'6 ~ ~ecta~NZI ·_34.6-2719 Bochx~ 61H8~a~et1ng Ca rd3~:Poster3 LongestlfaBdng-On-HandS In 190a Johann Hur/inger of Austria walked on his hands from Vienna to Paris in 55 daily 10-hour stints, covering a distance of 871 miles. AT&T long distance wins hands down when if comes to immediate credit for incomplete calls and wrong numbers. Longest Bicyc'e Race The longest one-day \massed start\ race is the 551-620 km (342-385 miles) Bordeaux-Parjs event. In 1981. Herman van Springe! averaged 41186 kmlhr (2932 mph) covering 584.5 km (362.4 miles) in 13 hl35 mtn. 18 sec. AT&T long distance lets the good times roll for you, too -with discounts of up to 60% every day. Nobody can match AT&T for savings and service: • 40% discounts evenings, 60% discounts nights and weekends. • Immediate credit for incomplete calls and wrong numbers. • Calls from anywhere to anywhere, anytime. • 24-hour operator assistance. • Quality that sounds as close as next door. It's a winning combination. Why settle for less? For details on exciting new plans-ideal for students- visit the display in the Campus Store. The more you hear the better we sound.'m AT&T is essential that one eavesdrop on her conversations. This is a fool-proof way to confirm one's suspicions, since names like Muffy, Buffy,. Babs, and Maria (pronounced with a long i) are indicative of \Skiddies.\ The focus of their discussion may cover a broad range of topics: * Barclays, men, 'I< ·the Metro, men, the *Rafters, and men! When one happens to realize that these \strangers\ are from Skidmore College, one should casually saunter by and take pride in being a Union College woman. · *Bars frequented by ''Skid- dies\ in Saratoga Springs. Fo-ot· Loo.se By JULIE MOYNIHAN Orientation ·Committee On Saturday, September 15, Union's Orientation Com- mittee will host a dance for all incoming freslnnen and tran- ~fer students in the alumni gym from 8:30 p.m. to 12:00 mid· night. The dance will feature music performed by the rhythm and blues band, \Out of Control.\ The dance is the first of its kind a.s it will carry the theme of Orientation 1984, \The Way We Are\ tying in with the movie \The Way We Were.\ As many know, one of the scenes was filmed in Union's alumni gym. The committee would like to give special recognition to the following people. Their assistance is greatly ap~ preciated: Mr. Kevin Kennedy of Carl Co., Mr. William Morgan of White's Funeral Home, Mrs. Jacquelyn Mountain, and Father John, Provost of St. John the Evangelist Church. ' ' . ' - 'Pen Even!_~~ ,tiJ.·g. impcrrted English SPORT COATS traditional all wool Yorkshire Tweeds ... Very British in shorts, regulars and lol)gs. $139 90 includes alterations ~(QUI'l(4$Hicij . G'~'~.)l, ei'C2!;•!:RJ;.,\v'6Yfl· \h:JI} In ~ ,.. 117f b'/11/ !..urti . ,.\lfltr /Q,IQ . ~- . {01 420 State Street • Sc~enedady Free Parking on Broadwuy Adjoining our Re11r Entrance Mastercard- Viso·A m Express Squire Shop CLor!je Open daily .til 9 .. S11turdoy til 5 - .F 1 B: We welCOI here·c; of the be int look a get tc better you hi Justa class 1 in the have I extra group: your 1 to son Oftl freshiJ and l,l 42.9 I those1 eertaiJ things a clasf and w Early which percer your r. The also 1 avera! while was 6 ninety class school atten< MaybE public educat States, evideri some I are de job. The be es] school statisti perce1

~ a ~s: ~n.! n- ic \ r OONOOBDIEN818, September 13, 1984 Page 7 .Freshnlan Class Meets Tough Union Standards By THE ORIENTATION COMMITI'EE Welcome, welcome, welcome! Now that you are here and are a clear 25 percent of the Union population, it might. be interesting to take a closer look at who you are ·so you may get to know each other even better or just be proud of what you have accomplished so far. Just a warning though, you, the class of 1988, have done so well in the past that many people have high hopes, .espeCially the extracurr.icular activiti.es groups which are .excited about your participation. But now on to some specific statistics. Of this class consisting of 532 freshmen, 2,972 people applied and 1,241 were accepted. That's 42.9 percent attendance by those who were accepted, which certainly says some positive things about Union. Also within a class of 532, 145 of you applied and were accepted to Union as Early Decision candidates,. which means that for at least 27 percent of the class, Union was your number one choice! The average SAT scores were also quite impressive. The average verbalscore was 560, while the average math score was 630. Three hundred and ninety-five or 74.3 percent of the class of 1988 attended public school while 137 or 25.7 percent attended private schools. Maybe it is not true that the public schools are failing to educate the future of the United States, at least there is some evidence here at Union that some public and private schools are doing a pretty impressive job. · · · The class of 1988 was found to be especially active in high school. Some interesting statistics include the fact that 50 percent of the class were members of the National Honor Society. Fony-five percent of the class were involved in a social service organization or did volunteer work <if some sort (all of you keep yow eyes open for the Circle K Club). Thirty- five percent of the class wrote for . either their school newspaper or for tlleir year- book, so also keep an,eye out for the Concordiensis and the Gamet. Thirty-three percent played a musical instrument in the past, but even better, over half the class was involved in music or in the theater. Fresh· men watch out, people at the Student Activities E;<po will be looking for you, and will be very ,33 CANAL SQUARE DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 370-4288 pleased to meet you. Again, over one-half of the class worked at a part-time job while attending high school. One of the illustrious class of '88 even owns his own busi,ness. Thirty-four percent held offices in some form of student :government, and 80 percent (at least) of the class were involved in some form of athletics. Girls, the odds are in your favor: the maleafemale ratio is 60:40. So have fl.lil, get to knc)weachother, get involved at Union and do well, everyone's rooting for you! Welcome once again Class of 1988, you wm·an surely be making your mark on Union! 370 BROADWAY DOWNTOWN SARATOGA, N.Y. '001-8007 Mon- Wed 10-6 Th-Fr 10-9 Sat 10-5 15% Discount $ 1 5 or more excluding Sale items MfiNHf\ flN - ~~~IH~~i;~ 605 Union Street \The Most Exciting New. Bar in Downfo,wn Schenec tady'• OPEN 1 DAYS A WEEK LUNCH-DIN:NER--FINGER FOODS Serving 11:30 am-1:00 am Join Us for Sunday Brunch J 1:00 am-3 pm it\. FOUR SEASONS CHINESE REST4UJl1NT f'1' Phone: 393-5440/393-5441 #~'~~..f Se::; I ~~ . Specialize in CantonEse, NoH Terrace lll!!r .... Szechuan & Hunall ~.. I .-#~1 ~ Hours: Sun-Thu. -ll: 30-10:00 § i .S ~ Fri.-Sat.ll:J0-11:00 a Take Out of or Eat in We're in Walking Distance We prepare our foods with •.. Just a Little Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot of experience / SUBSCRIBE TODAY I .. Attention Freshmen Parents: Keep up with what'_s happening on campus. Have a part of Union mailed home each week. For only $18 .• 00 you can have CONCORDY for the whole year. Make you.r check payable to CONCORD I ENS IS Mail to Box 2577, Union College Schenectady, N.Y ~ 12308 --------------~----------------- YES! Enclosed is my check to receive Concordy aJI year. Name -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------1 ~ddress _______________________________________________________________________ _ zip- WEEKENDS to escape from the other five. per nigh I l~elax by our health club will} indoor pool and exerci~ mom. For complete details, give us a ·call. Then esca to our Ramada- where we've got a new world for you. RAMADA® INN 450 Nott Street, SCHENECTADY, NY (518) 370-7151 ladies' cut $18.00 men 1 s cut $14.00 $5.00 off with this ad hair cuts, perms and color make-up, skin care and hair care products 137 south ferry st schenectady n y 12305 516-372-1949

Page 8 orts OQNOOBD1EN818, Septembter 13; i9B.t • • Old,andNew '':.::J~: ,, 't if. . ~':. ,._: ci >. .0 0 ... 0 .s:::. Q. tl) Ill Ol :2 u CIJ c .c: c. Ill ·0 >- .c 6 0 .c: c. - C:XP - <I' 10 01 .c u Cll c .c a. rc 0 >- .c 0 - 0 .c a. impoJ relati, cou)d mana; shewl all the to eJq: would levels availa conce1 ad van least 1 evider they busim: they< areas Sati mana1 Pub, twelvE ext en~ restau at me helpin worke worke

