1-: 0! > .0 0 0 .s:::. 0. > J<: Vl c: E Ill ~ > 1.. 1.. Ill ...J > D £ 0 r:. 0. ' . .... ,.CXIII, No. 22 Student managers of security, sophomores Jos~ph Pi colla and' Patrick Salvador, explain the tasks of the student se<Jurity workers. • • .. - :May 3, 1984 . . . - . ~ . . . . Patrol System · Improved ByGAYLEROSENFELD News Editor Upon request of Union's student security m13nagers, this reporter accompanied a student foot patrolon its.evening rounds last Friday, April27. However, even with Union's usual Friday night parties, the night was rather quiet and typical for student security. The evening began· at 8:20 p.m. with an overall ex- planation of student security's workings by its two student managers, Joseph Picolla and Patrick Salvador, both sophomores. According to the latter manager, on weekday nights there are five students on duty at once while on weekend nights, six students work concurrently. Sereen Visitors As to the North and Richmond College shifts, there are ·two: student managers must take the place of the. delinquent security person. However, Picolla and Salvador have found that this instance rarely occurs. H .. 1r1ng Policy Questioned One exists from 8:30 p.rn. to 12:00 a.m. and the second lasts from12:00a.m. to7:00 a.m. One person covers Richmond while another is situated in North. Said .Salvador, \The workers will just screen all males coming·in(o the dorms.\ J.D.'s will be checked when· necessary. Beginning at 8:30 p.m., eachm!de visitor is asked to wait while his name is called l!P to the person he wishes to see.When this visitor is approved, he is then allowed to continue on Picona did wish to stress also that \Student security is not an enforcement body. We are the extra eyes and ears\ of security. ''We don't want them (student security personnel) subject to physical violence or verbal abuse.\ Occasionally ·~you get a male that will try to go tbrough\ the female dor- mitory without being an- no11Jlced, said Salvador. When this occurs, the student on duty calls Campus Security and this person is then apprehended. The -student security person is not to subject him or herself to any danger in any way. During last winter tenn, a Science andEngineering.(S&E) C()mplex shift was instituted. Formerly, the student security foot patrol would lock up the S & E complex, and then campru; officers would double check the area later in the evening. Now, this new shift alleviates the bw<len Pn the foot p~trQl. This By JULIE ADELMAN Editor·in..Cbief In the .Aprill~, 1984 issue of Coneot:diensis, . Vice President for Finance ~d A<,hninlstr~tion John liatJBer stated that Union has adopted a \new hiring po\icy.\ He explained t}lat thl~ policy would requite all physical plant employees to authorize law enforcement agencies to notify Union of their arrest records. The new . hiring policy i.$ a result of an incident in which a female student was accosted by an employee of the College. After this incident, which oc- curred in March, Union learned that the employee (who was subsequently fired) had a criminal r~cord for rape. The objective .of the new policy is to prevent the hiring of employees who may pose a . potential danger to the campus com· munity. The new hiring policy, as explained by Hauser, \ •.• will only affect physical plant employees. Applicants for other non-academic jobs at Union will not be subject to this kind of a check.\ · Many members of the college community have voiced their opposition to this policy, mainly because they- feel that it is discriminatory. A petition, requesting \that the new hiring policy . . . be amended to in· elude all employees of the college so as not to discriminollte against any particular group\ was clrcul~ted around the campus this .past week. Thi$ peti~ion was signed by a cross- - section of the campus coma munity, including professors, students, and non-academic staff members. The large number of people who signed the petition indicates that there is great concern and objection to the new policy. The individuals who oppose t~e new policY feel that it discriminates 'against physical Plant workers. They believe that if Union is going to have such a policy it should include all employees of the College and not single out just one depart- ment. Hauser explained that the Policy will only affect physical Plant employees since \they have accesst() T.arious areas of the camP.US c:m weekends and nights. and woe just felt it was something tllat needed to be done.\ B{)w-evEr,. there are J:PI;lllY ~mploy~ee d tb~ Cpllege who are not part of the physical plant departraera wh() a.lso haw keys and acce::)s to campw bui1dings, Thi~ is another reaso.n for the ol)position to the policy. Whether th~ new poficy discriminates. .agai:nst physic81 plant employees and whether the Administratimt has a rigbt to . discriminate are very dif. ficult questions . ...Associate Dean o{ Undergradua-te Studies and Professor of. Political Science . William Daniels elqllained that there are a ntllllller .of conc.erns which must i.e considered before answ~ring · · these questions. _ _ One concern, Daniels stated, is that \there is a right to privacy on th~ pa1-t of any person who is cGntemplating employment at the College.\ If an individual ha.:s a record and they have paid their debt to society, this. perso!'l has a right to keep their r-ecord private. Daniels believ-.es \that one should observe tint right to privacy . • . . Th:.<EW should have an opportunicy to. get 'over the past.'' Another co11cernb()nthe part of the College. Union wants to hire ''individtuls who are competent, capalll~, and are not apt to engage im co11duct that the College would not .approve of,\ stated Daniels. In other words, the .Qc>llege has an in· tere·st in r()uting out un- desirables befC>re they are hired. Daniel5 ~ent on to ex· plain that \in order t() route out Uildesirables, the College has a right to est~blisb some guidelliles or rules.\ However, according to Daniels, an im- portant constr:airlt ()fthese rules is that \they satisfy some minimum stancl.ards of equal protection. 'I'Ilat is,, everyone should come tnder the rules. The rules sh()11lll apply equany to all; everyone similarly situated sbould be .treated the same way.\ Daniels did nlllt collliUent on whether he feels tllat the new hiring policy is discriminatory. He did state, llo-wever, that his way. Howev-er, at 12:00 a.m. \every rtile discriminates in a the male visitor is no longer sense. But, there is acceptable . allowed to enter farther into the discrimination and unac- building unless the female ceptable discrimination. And student he wishes to see comes what you. don't want is unac- down to the entryway . of the c~ptaQle discrimination.\ puilding to meet tilin· This is Daniels also explained that in Just an()th.~r meUWd to ensure · «der<for tules to be fair, there .. go~ secur1ty measures,. are certain standards that RIChm()nd and North s front shollld -be met. ''The · rull~s doors are. allowed to remain should have some stated ob- open: between 8:30 p;m. and jective; the rules should be 1~:00 a.~., but. no~ after tbat precisely tailored to meet that tune. '!'Jlis tacttc. lS used for objective; the rules should converuen~e sake m regards to intrude on one's privacy to a the secun~y person on duty limited extent· and the rules when trafftc IS greatest, but should be the' least objective convenie~ce must. be. sacrificed means for accc,mplishing the for security at Inidnight. valid objective.\ AlSo, upo~ each h~ur the In essence, Daniels believes student se.clll'!-tY person m these that a rule must bear a two dornutones must check all ·reasonable relationship to a back and side doors .of their stated objective. respective buildings ~0 ensure Opponents of the new hiring that t~ese .doors remam closed. policy feel that it is unfair and At this yo.int, the front door of does not meet the objectives the building must . be closed stated by Hauser. They feel that regardless of the tJm~ .. ~ven in order for the new policy to though the board ( mttl~ly meet the stated objectives, it turned on and .off each eve~g must include all employees who and ~ollowmg mormng, have keys and thus access to resp~ctlvel¥, by a campus campus buildings. At the secur~ty ()fftcer) used ~Y the present time, many Union security person. detects .!f ~ny employees have keys who are d~rs are open m the buil~g, not part of the physical plant this cheek of doors by ViSual department. However, these inspection ensures the ~ard's employees will not be checked accu~acy, thus, maximum wtder the policy described by seeur1ty. . Hauser. · When the Richmond . and Assistant Professor of North guards be~in their shifts, Socioltlgy Martha Huggins is they ~ust ca.ll m to Campus very much Qj>posed to· the new Security.. This assures that policy. She feels that it is some~ne 1s alway~ on duty. If a ''blatantly discriminatory.'' secur1typerson fail$ t<? show up Huggins also feels that the fo~ a shift, whether m a. dor- Administration is only focusing nutory or for campus .patrol, the on one level: ''to make sure that :we don't hire anyon~ with a record who might be a danger to students.\ She questioned whether employees who have keys are required to return them before they leave campus at night. \If they are not,\ stated Huggins, \maybe they should because the keys could be stolen or accidentally lost.\ Many of the opponents of the new hiring policy agree with Huggins. They feel that the physical plant employees have been degraded and insulted by this policy partly because of the fact that other college em- ployees have keys to campus building$. These opponents also feel that the reputation of Continued on page 4 _ new shift incluq~s the Science and E.-.gineerizig Building, Bailey HaU,stelnrhetzitafl, and Butterfield Hall. One student security person, frolll8:30 p.m. to midnight ·each day, must lock up all the doors and windows in this complex. From 8:30 to 9:30 p.m., he or she is to lock all first floor doors extept the black double doors whicb lead into the Peschel Center. These doors are locked at 11 p.m. by this student secux;ty person. After this time, students wishing to gain acce$s to the computer center must ask security to admit them. From 9:30p.m. to 10:30 p.m., all second and third floor doors are locked in the S & E complex. If any laboratories or ()ffices are still unlocked at this time. the student security person will call Campus Security on his or her \'alkie-talkie during their shifts. At that point, a Campus Security officer will theri lock up tbat open office or lab. Student security people only have keys to lock the outside doors on campus, not the inner offices. These keys are unique in that they can only lock doors; no student security person can use them to unlock a locked door. These keys are picked up at the Continued on page 5

Page2 >- ,:,/. en c: E 10 :It! >- L. ·I.. 10 ...J >- .0 12 0 s::. c.· Alfred Scott, the president of Scott Mason, Ltd., lectures on \Entrepreneurship and Investment .Banking.\ CONC(JRDIENSIS. Mal' 3, 1984 Entrepreneur Lectures On Successes In Investment By JAN BARAN Associate News Editor On Thursday,. April 26, 1984, an administrative and engineering colloquium was held in Bailey 312. Alfred Scott, the president of the investment banking finn .of Scott-Mason, Ltd., spoke on ''Entrepreneurship and, · Investment Banking.\ Scott graduated in 1953 from Union - with a major in English. Later, he attended New York University School of Law and ob~ained his law degree. •. Maryland Paper Sues Scott began his lecture with a description of the personal qualities needed to make a successful.entreprenetll\. First, h.e mentioned that knowledgeable contacts can aid the potential entrepreneur by leading him to the needed resources,. such as capital and possible deals. In addition, this investment banker suggested that. an entrepreneur needs to have a. good rapport with people. Whentrying to establish a new business, the ''word of mouth'' that satisfied customers or clients can pass on is especially helpful in obtaining more clientele. businessman was able to negotiate a land package for the United Nations Building in New York City, he had a \com- pulsion to constantly acquire'' capital which led to bis filing for bankruptcy when his lending fitm was. able to withdraw the financial resources before the deal was completed. For the potential investment hankers in the audience, Scott advised them to know their clients before engaging in a business deal. In this \dangerous'' world of high finance, some detrimental economic tran,. sactions can be avoided if the client is known to the in:- (CPS)~ The University of Maryland's student paper plans 'to sue the university for the right ·to report about student disciplinary hearings. Maryland's \judicial system provides ttie equivalent of a closed, secret trial\ that con- flicts with the First Amend- ment, explains Gary Gately, editor of The Diamondback. The secrecy .. places a direct constraint on the press.\ The University of Maryland's \judicial systen;t provides the equipment of a closed, secret trial\ that conflicts with the First Amend· ment.i -Gary Gately In March, the state attorney general had recoinmerided keep~g DJamondback repor- ters 'out of judicial board hearings because it would violate the Buckley Amendment to the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974. The law guarantees the confidentiality of student records. \The student's right to privacy is greater than the Diamondback's right to know,'' adds Michael Bishop, assistant to Maryland's director of judicial programs. , \We see no evidence that the Buckley Amendment applies to (judicial board) hearings,\ ·counters Lee Levine, lawyer for Maryland Media, the in- dependent organization that owns The Diamondback and four other student publications. The case could influence how readily papers on other cam- puses get to report on student disciplinary cases. The issue has become more important over the last six months as colleges have intensified their efforts to control student misbehavior. The paper argues the judicial board hears criminal cases that would ordinarily be open to the press if the crimes had occurred just off campus. \They try rape, and wouldn't report it to the authorities unless they think the defendant is in danger,\ Gately contends. _Reporter Erik Nelson recalls that last fair a .star basketball player secretly was brought before the board. \At first, all the word we had was that there was a dorm rule violation. Then we found out that there was a question of sexual assault. This is something that should be known.\ Nelson argues criminal charges are not part of a student's record, and therefore Bylaws Approved By LINDA RAFFAELE staff On Apri118, the Committee on Committees ( CoC) adopted a set of bylaws to help clearly define its responsibilities and procedures. The committee had formerly functioned according to a set of somewhat vague rules which had been passed down by word of mouth from year to year. Now the connnittee, which is chaired by Senior Jared Squires and includes Sophomore Representative Eric Colsman, Junior Representative Susan Brand, Junior Gayle Rosenfeld and Senior Representative James Parsons, has a more clearly defined set of laws. The bylaws cover the major re~ponsibilities of the CoC: Meeting procedures, voting; rules, and the selection process for student committees and student-faculty committees. The most important law is the one governing the selection,. process for student committees and student-faculty com~ mittees. Prior to the adoption of the bylaws, students who .. wished to apply for a committee would fill out an applicati()n. The applicant was identified on the application only by his or her I.D. number. The ap- plication would then be evaluated by the five members of the CoC, with CoC members free to discuss each application among themselves. It is thought that this procedure did not ensure total fairness. If one member of the CoC knew the I.D. number of a friend who wanted to be elected to a committee, he or she might be able to convince other members of the CoC to vote for this applicant. Under the new bylaws, however, this is guarded against by a new voting system. From now on, each member of the CoC will rank each ap- plication separately. The ap- plications will be ranked on a score of one to ten. Squires says, \This new system will prevent the possibility of any perSon being railroaded on to a com· mittee.\ · other important aspects of Continued on page 3 SAVE THE SKELLAR shouldn't be covered by the Privacy Act. College Park, he adds, has 40,000 students and all the crimes that happen in a small city. \We have robberies and assaults. If it happeJled off campus, anybody could attend the trial.'' \As far as I'm concerned \ ' Bishop says,- \if a student wanted something to be public, then we would grant it.\ . The business qualities of a good entrepreneur were also' mentioned by Scott. One of the main concerns Qf a businessman is to avoid ob- taining capit;;ll from the sowces that have an ability to withdraw· their money too easily. To emphasize this poinf, Scott recalled the story of William Zeckendorf. . Although this vestment banker. ' · Scott concluded that presentation with a few general comments on investment banking. When asked whetherthe investment banking 'industry has changed he stated, \Investment banking is an activity which keeps on going, forever changing with the current economic conditions. It's not a business one can start up without some experience, some contacts, and some financial backing.\ Career Sources Developed Five Union students are working this spring on. special ·. research projects designed to expand the resources of the College Career Development Center. The nve students have worked this year as Career -·As!!ist~s, serving as liaisons bet:weeh underclassmen and the · Career Development Center. Pam Hartman, career development specialist at Union- and coordinator of the new program, said it \has been very successful. We learned a lot as a group.\ Research Projects The research projects are the final phase of the year-long Career Assistant program .. Each project, in addition to benefiting the Career Development Center, enables the student to persue an area of personal interest. Two students,. senior ·Sarah Couch and Junior Dianne Pavacic, are compiling a student advising guide, with information on graduate programs, scholarships, fellowships, internships and study abroad as well as lists of faculty, staff and written resources. The guide would include such specifics as which faculty members serve as advsiers for certain career paths, such as pre-med; what By AARON TOFFLER ·staff On Friday, April 27, The Institute of Electrical and Electronical Engineers (IEEE) held an awards banquet in Union's Old Chapel. The banquet was held in recognition of the centennial year for the IEEE and its semicentennial year at Union. Good Turnout The conference attracted a good turnout including about 15 Fellows, one of the highest cllstinctions one can achieve in tests are required for certain occupations or graduate schools and when such tests must be taken; and where to write for fellowships, The. project was actually begun in 1981 but never com- pleted, Hartman said. ' 1 '1'he · st;udent~:~ .ar.e now meeting with members of the faculty to UP\' date what information they have.\ She said the guide should be completed by the beginning of the next academic year. Sophomore Mike Palmer is studying entreprenetll\s.bip for his project. Hartman said he plans to compile and edit a collection of articles on starting a business. \He also is talking to Union students who have started their own businesses during the smnmer,\ she said, \to get their experiences and advice.\ Students-at Union have begun their own landscaping fftms, painting businesses, boutiques, and chimney sweep services, she said. Palmer also hopes to prepare a list of Union alumni en- tl\epreneuis for interested students to use as a reference. Survey Conducted Junior Tom Will and Senior Diane Rothbaum have prepared a survey they will conduct ·of personnel and college relations officers at a variety of com- tqe IEEE. After the .dinner, Kenneth Mathes, the first chairman of the Union branch of the IEEE presented the Most Improved. Student Award and the Faculty Recognition Award. Also, two more people joined the prestigious group of Fellows. The banquet cameto a climax when William McMurray was presented with the Lamme Medal. McMurray received a Master's degree in 1956 frorn Union. He was one of only seven in the country to receive such a high distinction. Two of the other. six, Athanasios Papoulis and Samuel C. Phillips, taught panies, asking, \What do you look for in a resume?\ \What they hope to find,'' Hartman said, \is what turns them off and what turns them on about a resume.\ Rothbaum, a modern languages major, is focusing on liberal arts careers, and Will, an . electrical .engine.ering major, . on technical fields. The two will then assemble the survey re_sults for students to examine when preparing their own resumes. During the year,_ the five Career Assistants have con- ducted workshops on such topics as getting summer jobs and career self-assessment, as well as spreading the word about Career Development Center events. In addition, they have conducted interviews with , a variety of professional men and women to obtain in- formation· on their training, · average day's activities, duties and responsibilities, and assets and liabilities of each chosen field. Those interviews are collected into book form for students to peruse. Hartman said all students are en- couraged to complete such- interviews, and the Career Assistants' work \serves as a good example. They can see from this that yoU can get all kinds of valuable information.\ Of the program in general, Hartman said, \They're learning a lot and we're having a lot of fun.\ at Union in 1952 and 1944 respectively. This is a great accomplishment both for these men and Union given that the IEEE has over 200,000 mem- bers. ·*** Welcome Parents **-* - A IntE the una estCl spo1 frat Psi sup] Phi Ace Stu( did tici Ins1 tici) rea: in tl Tl thrc of tl Pre Bro Assi Pie1 .Jarr of forr. will for toni Ei will Whil mer The ( In sign at 1 Com Ane repl~ syst~ soon CoU grap Ac Dir1 Acac Wysc laser nectE will~ atai dots. enha capa cent1 sci en cludi and ( W3 sacri qual fers1 c Conti the 11 expa grou fund1 prob the aske1 ledt( not it supp1 men' Th had whicl grou1 newl this 1 Un Willl tryin, an a< to be to pr~ of m~ hand: Year, consi; mem·

CONCORDIENSIS, May 3, 1984 Escort Senice Improved SyDAVE MARIN Staff sibilities except excorting students. When calls come in for an escort, one of the brothers will be sent while the other stays for other calls. When the escort reaches his destination, he will phone back to security to see if. any calls have come in since the time he left. The ·escorts will be wearing bdght jackets labeled \Escort Ser- vice\ but will not carry walkie- talkies. pression that I think this campus is unsafe,\ stressed Massa. He belleves, though that students should be more con- sclous of their actions such as propping dormitory doors open for friends and ,plzzamen. The Escort Service will run every . Thursday, Friday, and Saturday night from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. starting tonight and continuing until June 2. All students are encouraged to use the service which can be ob- tained by calling security at 6178. Security's regular escort service will still be in operation at other times. Page3 Assis·tant Dean of Students Robert Massa and the IFC approve a fraternity-sponsored escort service. At the Aprill8 meeting of tne Interfraternity Council (IFC), the 13 · fraternities present unan·imously approved. the establishment of a fraternity- sponsored escort service. Of the fraternities not at the meeting, Psi Upsilon has indicated its support, and Chi Psi and Delta ·Phi have not yet responded. According to Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa, the I,FC did not want to inipose par- ticipation on its members. Instead, it has made par .. ticipatiorvoptional and for that. reason has not included \IFC\ in the name of the servic~. Begins Tontgh~ The service has come about through the efforts of President of the IFC ·Roger Harris, Vice.. President of the IFC Ron Brosnihan, Junior Jamie Dees, Assistant Director of Security Pierce Fitzgerald, and Massa. Jamie Dees, who is a member· of Kappa Sigma and a former student.security worker, will be the student coQrdinator for the ser-Vice which begins The service was established hl respopse to recent concern QVer student safety and in the hopes of allowing regular security workers to spend their time more U$efully. On peak nights, security receives 20 to 30 calls requesting escorts, Tbese calls take . time away from security's other duties. Students will undergo a training- sessic:m before they start work. Jamie Dees Will. conduct the first se~sion this Thursday night. - There are other measures currently being taken to make the c~mpus safer. Among them are the increased lighting that is being added to campus and the creation of a map with suggested routes for traveling the grounds at night. As for. other measures, Massa believes that more educational programs may be in order. He does riot believe that most students are aware of what .goes on as far as undesirable activity on campus is concerned. \I don't want you to get the im· Liability Workshop Held On Fraternity fusurance tonight. _ Each participating fraternity will be assigned. one night on . which it must send two of its members to the security office. They. will have no respon- by LORI OLIWENSTEIN Staff On Wednesday, March 25, Robert Heron, Union's business manager, andJack Kolodziej of Jardeen Insurance Brokers of Schenectady, addressed the topic of liability insurance at another in a series of Inter- fraternity-Panhellenic Council sponsored workshops. The workshop was set up as a result of a previous one when Troy Attorney Charles Carletta spoke on alcohol related Computer Center Changes By STEVE PIRAINO Staff In the near future, many significa..r,tt . changes wilt occur at the Stanley G. P.eschel Computer Center here at Union. A new system will be chosen to replace the outdated Burroughs system, and a new printer will soon be added to fulfill the College's need for better graphics and scientific outputs. According to Assistant Director-Coordinator of Academic Affairs Mark Wysoski, \An Imagen 5-480 laser printer has been con- nected to our VAX system. It will print five pages per minute at a print resolution of 480 by 480 dots.\ It was purchased to enhance the. graphics capabilities of. ·the computer ce.nte~. and wlll support scie:r;tbftc word .processing in- cluding mathematical symbols and Greek characters. Wysoski said, \We have sacrificed speed to gain high quality output. If of- fers type set quality and. a much finer print than the Hewlett Packard which has a resolution of only 180 ~ 180 dots.\ Another advantage of this printer is that it offers· cut sheet 'output, meaning · that it requires no trimming or bursting. Students should be able to access it by next week, but this is not definite. \The laser was delivered without a disquette, therefore they (the distributor) had to ship us one from California. Then the disk drive wasn't functioning. It will be tested and programs will be worked through it as soon as possible.\ Wysoski was also excited to view the printer's performance. He said,' \It is a brand new model from Imagen. We are one of the first groups in the nation to get it.\ Another major decision for the computer center will be the choice of the ''General Curricular Time Sharing System for Academic Services\ which Will replace the current Burroughs System. The com- mittee in charge of the decision is in the final stages of evaluating proposals from four venders: Digital, Hewlett Packard, IBM, and Sperry. They will soon give their recollllil,endations of the a~ propriate system to Vice President of Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea. Wysoski declined to comment at this time about who will use this new system. However, he did say, \We are trying to assess the conversion of the academic~ programs from the Burroughs to those offered by those of the four venders.\ It is hoped that the transition from th~ Burroughs to the new system will be ionplemented during Christmas break of the next academic year. Student programmers will be working diligently on the conversion this summer. The computer center will be open during regular operating hours this coming weekend. Wysoski added, \Parents are welcome to drop by anytime this weekend.\ CoC Defi.nes Duties Continued from page 2 the new bylaws are those which expand the criteria by which groups are recognized and-or funded by the Student Forum. A problem arose last winter when the Women's Support Group asked for funding. The reques.t led to the question of whether or not it was fair to fund a women's support group if there were no men's support. group. The CoC real~ed that it really ha~ no significant criteria by whtch to judge whether or not a group should be funded~ The new bylaws will help to correct this problem. · ,Under the new laws, groUP$ wfl! have to prove that they are trymg to create and maintain an active membership in order to be eligible for funding. This is to prevent a substantial amoWlt of money from falling into the hands of a very few people. Last year! .~or example, a group, cons1~mg of. only two active memBers was tmt in charge of $3000. \Since the money for these groups comes out of the St11dent Activities Fee,\ Squires says, \we want to make sure that the funds go to a good purpose.\ Groups funded by the Student- Fonun will have to prove that they are trying to maintain an active membership and put their filnds to good use by submitting a one-page sum- mary of their activities at the end of the .seventh week of each term. I Conditional Status If a group fails to ·meet any of the above criteria, the GoC can .place: _it on conditional status. This means that it is given a specific time to get organized ( usua:Uy about a tenn) before it can begin receiving funding from the Student Forum again: If it does ~ot get organized within this time period, the Coc can decide to revoke its recognition, New groups will be given a trial period anywhere from a term to a year to prove that they are worthy of CoC recognition and funding. It is believed that these measures will help to strengthen the system. Squires adds in conclusion that \The CoC is a difficult committee on which to serve.\ He explains that usually each year the committee is com- prised of five new members. Knowledge of the committee's workings is limited in the beginnhlg of the year so that each year the five new mem- bers are rather confused as to procedures. Because Qf this change-over each year. Squires believes that bylaws are very important. He says, \The ·bylaws will aid future· CoC's. They will make the governj.ng system more effective by helping to ensure that student activity funds are more equitably distributed.'' liability, and wamed Union's fraternities and sororities about the dangers of being uninsured. Heron spoke first on the in- surance which Union presently has. The College carries a general liability plan, but in addition to this policy, \We also carry another plan called an umbrella liability policy . . . (which is) excess coverage over and above the general liability plan.\ He believed that, \ ... in terms of y.our (fraternities and sororities) own relationships and the status of your houses and the operations you're in- volved in, I think all of you really should become acquainted with general liability, and in some form or another, the potential use of an umbrella or an excess kind of liability policy.\ Kolodziej agreed. wjth this ~atement and added tbe information that the premiums .-on an umbr.ella ·policy are often cheaper than· those on a general policy. This is because there is the protection of the general policy above it, making the company supplying the umbrella less vulnerable. Kolodziej reasserted the importance for the fraternities and sororities to be covered by insurance: \If you don't have insurance what happens is that the responsibility is then spread to the members of the frater- nity.'' When asked how much insurance the fraternities and sororities should be buying, he replied, \I think that each one of you warrants' an individual kind of review of your own situation . .. it comes down to dollars and cents, what you're comfortable with and what you can afford,\ It was then suggested that a group policy might be a cheaper way of insuring all the frater- nities and sororities, but Kolodziej was not particularly supportive of the idea. \It might scare some insurance com- panies ... they might be afraid to get involved feeling that because there are. so many activities, the likelihood of someone getting injured is fairly high . . . it may not be worthwhile to them.\ He reacted similarly to the suggestion of attaching a rider onto the school's policy to cover the fraternities and sororities. 41 (The insurance company covering the school) has enough headaches worrying about the College and what they're responsible for ... they may do it separately' but they won't add it to the College policy.\ Kolodziej then went on to discuss the costs of a policy. ''The cost fluctuates. Most insurance companies are a little reluctant to insure fraternities simply because of liquor ex~ posure. They're willing to do it, but the price varies . . . if you own or lease a bu.ilding,\ (all the fraternities at Union either own or lease their residences) \It's more expensive than if you didn't ... The rates are based on square feet of that particular building you own or lease.\ For fraternities housed in college- owned dormitories, however, the amount of insurance needed is less, since the College shares the responsibility for many of the possible problems such as fire, injury, etc. There is also the lessened cost of an wnbrella policy as was discussed earlier. One of the most important aspects of the policies to be purchased, according to Kolodziej, is the attachment of a specific endorsement. ''There's an endorsement to the policy that provides covereage for all members of the fraternity or sorority if you're engaged in activities that are operated by the fraternity or sorority. What that does is it enables the in- dividuals to receive the benefit \I tliink that the ·strong showing (at the workshop) on the part of the frater- nities and sororities demonstrates again that these ~oups are con- cerned about the weHare of the organizations they belong to, are concerned about their own safety and are willing to take a stance as responsible citizens of the community.,' -Massa of the lawyers of the fraternity . . . you have the enjoyment of someone else working on your behalf for the amount of premium that you pay.\ This endorsement has to be added to the policy, but it costs nothing extra. Being a corporation helps but only the alumni officers of the corporation are· protected, while the members of the house are not. Thus, the aforemen- tioned endorsement is still a good idea, since house members can be brought to suit in- dividually. The endorsement would provide legal aid for these people. Speaking more specifically, Kolodziej discussed what he considers the biggest problem facing firatemities which are not in college owned dor- mitories. n they are, \The College, because they own the building, has to provide you a safe place to live in, they have to maintain the premises ... If the school owns the building, the physical damages are the responsibility of the College.\ The subject of liquor and parties was then brought up, since it is a major part of the concern for insurance. Kolodziej says, \If you sell liquor, you need a special type of insurance. If you provide liquor, as at a party, most policies provide that . Continued on page 4 c ·a; :II! '3 Ill 0:. > .D 0 0 .c Q.

Page4 ( 'ONC'ORIJIENSJ.f;: Mar 3, 1984 Student Forum Meets The Woodrow Wilson -Academic Fellow for '1984-1985, Dr. J.W. Cole, Ensign Professor of Surgery at Yale University wiM visit Union next week. SCHEDULE Dr. J.W. Cole, M.D. Ensign Professor of Surgery Yale University School of Medicine Woodrow Wilson Visiting;Fellow May 7-11,1984 Monday, May 7 11:30-12:20-History 82-Development of Modern Meclicine- Dawson-s8112 2:30-4:20-Philosophy 146--Social Philosophy-Baker-HU 117 4:30-Women's Lacrosse-Union vs. Hartwick College Tuesday, May 8 9:30-10: 20-Psychology 31-Abnormal Psychology-Nydegger- ·PY102 3:30-Lecture: \Medical Ethics: Forging a New Part- nership\-8trauss Lounge · 4:30-Reception: Sponsored by Pre-Health Society-Strauss Lounge, all welcome Wednesday, May 9 3: 3o-5: 00-Infonnal Discussion-Medical Education/Careers- -Career Development Center Thursday, May 10 4:00-5: 30-Informal Session: Medical Oncology Department- Ellis Hospital Friday, May 11 10:30-11:20-Biology 11-Topics in Contemporary Biology- Schadler-8S012 By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor \Due to the large amoWlt of supposed rumor which surrounds the issue, I propose a motion to call a meeting of the Skellar Board for next week, and to report its findings at the next meeting,\ stated Senior Representative Mathew Nankin, at the . last Student Forum meeting concerning the issue of the purported closing of the Rathskelrar. other issues of campus importance were also discussed at the April 30 meeting. As is consistent with the standard procedure, conunittee reports were presented first. Academic Affairs Represen- tative Jamie Danziger presented the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) report. The AAC has approved a psychology department proposal which would give more structure to the present major requirements. The specifics of the changes were not revealed by Danziger. The math department had its proposal to change. a visiting professorship position to one of a tenure-track nature approved by the AAC. Escort Service Due to IFC President Rog.er Harris' absence, Jamie Danziger presented the Intrafraternity Council report. Currently the IFC is working on an escort service. As the system proposal stands now, two students from a particular house would be on duty on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights. It would be the Insurance Broker Sp· eaks Continued from page 3 automatically- ... they consider . showing. .on the part of. ~he that an incidental function The meeting ended with fratermties and sororities since you are not in the busines~ Assistant Dean of Students demonstrates again that these of selling alcohol or distributing Robert Massa suggesting that groups are concerned about the alcohol. In fratemties I would the fraternities and sororities welfare of the organizations consider that beirlg a primary get together and retain the they belo!lg to, are concerned function.\ When you are selling Jardeen Agency to look into a~?o~t their own safety and are liquor at a party it is a different possible policies for them. When wtllmg to take a stance as matter. \You ~an buy an en- later asked about his view of responsible citizens of a com- dorsement to your present what happened at the meeting, m111!-ity.\ In summation, he policy for (selling liquor) but Massa stated, \I was en- praised the students for their you get into a very sensitive couraged by the attendance at concern: \They're trying to situation when you start selling the workshop. There must have assure that. no problems do liquor ... some companies will been close to 60 people there, occur. But if they do, they're not write that endorsement.\ and I think that the strong going to be ready.\ Regulation. Discussed Continued from page 5 to \remove obstacles in government\ to further nurture industrial growth. There is the possibility of a Department of Trade to better organize this area of business. Fritschler also said there will be more controversy over \who should control the regulatory process? Should it be Congress, the President, or the Courts?\ The United States has tried all these methods of control. Right now, the independent regulatory agency is the most conunon means of control at the federal and state levels. Frit- schler believes this method \is not very efficient and frustvates presidents a great deal.\ Nevertheless, Carter was very careful not to impinge on the territory of the independent commissions. Reagan, however, has not been so concerned with the independence of the com- missions. Fritschler said, \President Reagan has stepped over that boundary between the independent commission and the White House already several times.\ For example, regulations now have to be cleared tbrough the Office of Management and Budget before the commissions can adopt them. Fritschler believes this will be a continuing battle between the commissions and the OMB. Fritschler is also concerned that \public support for regulation itself seems to be coming back a little bit.\ The public did not approve of telecommunications and airline deregulation after the fact. He supports deregulation himself, hewever, and believes it will be beneficial in the future if the public will be patient. In ad- dition to the public, Congress and the courts are also tending to disapprove deregulation more frequently. The 'issue has not been settled yet, however, and it remains a major con- troversy within the government. Housing Lott-ery 1984-85 Distribution of lottery numbers--May 3 • 6:30·8 p.m.--Seniors, Stage II. MUST HAVE YOUR 10 • 6:30·8 p.m.--Juniors, DavidsM Lounge. MUST HAVE YOUR 10 • 6:30·8 p.m.--Sophomores, Fox Lounge. MUST HAVE YOUR 10 Co-op Lottery--May 8, 6: JOp.m., Stage II·Carnegie. Must bring 1 o. Lottery card .. Singles·Lottery--May 10,6:30 p.m., Stage 11-Carnegie. Must bring 10, Lottery card ~- Senior ·Lottery (doubles & suites).. May 15, 6:30 p.m., Stage 11-Carnegie. Must bring 10 Lottery card. All roommate.:> must attend. J Junior Lottery (doubles & suites)--May 17,6:30 p.m., Stage II·Carnegie. Bring 10, LOttery car • All roommates must attend. . Sophomore lottery (doubles.& suites)--May 22, 6:30p.m., Stage II·Carnegie. Bring ID, Lottery card. All roommates must attend. \\Stage Ills located next to the Game Room on 3rd floor of Carnegie Hall. students' responsibility to escort female students home. A training session is schedule(l for next week. The Independent Student Coalition (lSC) Representative, Steve Benson, presented the ISC report. The ISC had its last meeting of the year this past Sunday. Future ISC events were discussed at the meeting. . passed, 13 Y. Former Chairman of the Traffic and. Pet Court Mathew Nankin also presented a· repOrt of his group's involvement. The Traffic and Pet Court is a group of students which hears and decides upon individual student appeals of acquired parking violations. Finance Committee Report Presently, the viability of funding the ISC by the forum is in question. Discussion again The last committee report to continued this week. The main be presented was the Finance problem remains to decide Committee (FC) report. Offirst whether the ISC is a political priority was the forum's ap- group (which cannot be funded pr()val to provide the Concert under forum guidelines). It was Band with full funding. The decided by consensus that the group submitted its budget late, ISC is an extension of the forwn and according to present rules, and should thus be funded. had to come to the forum to Committee on Committees formally request funding. A ( CoC) Chairman Jared Squires motion was made to provide the gave the CoC. report. Though. group with funding, which was the CoC did not hold .a meeting passed by unanimous consent. this .past week, all of the Chairman of the Finance committee applications were Committee Brian Laux then received and the CoC will begin presented the report of the last interviewing for committee FC meeting. Steven Benson of cllairmanships this week. the ISC was present to discuss In addition, Senior Daniel the natme of the ISC. It was also Savarin of the Skellar Board noted that several budgets were. presented a rep01't of the Skellar submitted since the last finance Board's activities. Currently meeting.. Ffowever, some several rumors are circulating groups have not submitted their the campus surrounding the bm:fgets for next year. pUrported closing of the The issue of the Big Brothers- Ratllskellar. Three main Big Sisters request for $8,500 in reasons were cited by Savarin its budget next year to cover as ·possible justification for the costs of a new car was Skellar's closing: .A ·con- discussed. Alternative funding solidation of Food Service, seurces are presently being problems with health codes, and sought. In an unrelated issue, the drainage problems of the the Outing Club was brought in Skellar. These issues were line (in terms of travel ex- addressed by Savarin, penses) with the other student nwnerous forum members, and activities; the FC will now only David Greenway, a head pay half of the club's travel student of the Skellar. Further expenses. discussion ensued resulting in a The Black and Latin Alliance motion to call a meeting of the of Students (B.L.A.S.) made a Skellar Board (made by Senior request for additional funds for Representative Mathew three upcoming events: Kid's Nankin-See lead). The motion Continued on page 13 Hiring Policies ••• Continued from page 1 physical plant workers has been unnecessarily damaged both by the policy and as a result of the criminal record of a former employee of the physical plant department. Some feel that this is especially unfair since both students and faculty have been arrested in the past. Two weeks ago, Hauser stated that this \new hiring policy\ had been adopted and became effective on AprU 1, 1984. However, it is unclear to this reporter if there really is a new policy. Director of Per- sonnel George Richards stated this week that \we in fact do not have a new hiring policy. We are going to be exercising the policy that we have always had.'' Richards explained that Union has ·had the ability to eheck the backgrounds of in· dividuals applying for jobs (including conviction records) since 1978. He explained that Union will utilize this ability more frequently from now on but that this process would be done \selectively\ on only certain appJjcaQts. Richard.s stated that \If the job, what is done, or circumstances under which it is done indicates that we should check out certain aspects of a person's personal· or employment history, we will do so.\ HOUSING LOTTERY Time 6:30-7:00p.m. 7:00-7:30p.m. 7:30-8:00p.m. 8:00-8:30 p.m. 8:30:.9:00 p.m. 9:00-9:30p.m. 9:30-lO:OOp.m .. 10:00-10:30 p.m. Junior Lottery 1-50 Sophomore Lottery 1-50 50-100 100.·150 150-200 200-250 250-300 300onup until last person is called The Senior Lottery i>0-100 100-150 150-200 200-250 250,.300 300-350 350on up · until last person is called The senior lottery does :not have lottery numbers assigned to a specific time period. The senior lottery will begin ~t 6:30 p.m. Stage II, Tuesday, · May 15, with the senior present who has the lowest lottery number (no. · 1). The senior with the next lowest lottery number (no. 2) and present will then be called. This process will continue until the last senior present · is called. It is to your adv~;tntage to be on time as the senior lottery has historically been completed within one hour. The Junior and Sophomore Lottery ()nly those st1,1dents with the assigned lottery numbers and their rooiiliil.ates will be allowed ontQ the thirq floor o~ Carnegie Hall during · the apf· ropriate time period. All others will be asked to wait .. on the 4th · floor o Carnegie. The 4th floor lQunge will be available for waiting and is designated as the area for students who are looking for roorrunates to meet and, hopefullY, find suitable roommates. Members of the Residence Life Staff will be available on the fourth floor of Carnegie to answer questions about the selection procedure in Stage II and pass on up-.to-date.inforrnation onremaining rooms, etc. • I ' • ,• 'I Stu Brc Fri· \R4 in Adl gra 195! Ma: A eli Un] Am Wa: dea var gov cha Rat spe1 Bra SciE F Spei mel der1 oft and as sect Fri1 bys thez reg1 ThE me; reg1 the ch~ proc Pre out· ind1 well witJ NE the and wen1 Alex a \1 whic econ busiJ said beer. relat and StatE bush gove demc theo busir majCJ ment schle baun when ficial gove1 is ur singl4 occw gove1 corp4 go vet thell Said, exect govei Fril busiiJ goveJ belie' wor~ 1>0rat1 how helps fiscal in Wh $73 bi The credil progr progr~ elude resea expen businE added Togetl alrii.os budge:

CONCORDIENSJS, Mil)' 3, 1984 PageS Fritschler Lectures By JUDIE STEINHARDT Staff The Director of the Advanced Study Program of the Brookings Institute, Dr. A. Lee Fritschler, spoke Monday on. \Regulation and Deregulation in the Carter and ;Reagan Administrations.\ Fritschler graduated from Union in 1959, andqeontinued on to get his Master's and Ph.D. in Public Administration\ from Syracuse University. He taught at. American University in Washington, D.C. and became a dean there. Fritschler has had various positions in the federal government, including the chairmanship of the Postal Rate CommiSsion in 1982. His speech was part of the Annual Brackett Lecture of Political Science series. Fritschler opened up his speech by saying that govern- ment regulation . and deregulation bas become \one of the most important political and ·economic issues around,\ as government action in ~his sector has . greatly increased. Fritschler illustrated this point by saying, ''In the last Congress there were nearly 200 pieces of regulatory reform introduced.\ These reforms included measures · to eliminate regulatory programs, to extend· the legislative veto, and to change administrative procedure of these programs. President \Carter was out-of-step with what industry wanted . . . he went after deregulation with a vengeance.\ .-Dr. Fritschler Next, Fritschler described the \background of business and government relations.\ He went way back in history to Alexander Hamilton, who wrote a .. report on manufacturers\ which laid out a partnership for economic development between business and government. lie said that since then there has been . a \cooling of the relationship between business and government.\ The United States is unusual because big business developed before big government. In most western democracies, such as Japan, the opposite is true. As a result, business has always played a major role within the govern- ment, as it does today. Frit- schler quoted 'Cbarles Lind- baum, a professor at Yale, '!hen he said, \Corporate of· ftcials play a very large role in government and it is a role that i~ unsurpassed by any other smgle group.\ Most business occurs in the private sector, and government is \beholden to the corporate world.\ Despite government cooperation with the business world, Fdtschler said, \You find the corporate executive (is) very much anti- government.\ Fritschler understands the business executive's · anti- government stance, but he believes that the government works hard to assist the cor- porate world. To demonstrate how much the government ~elps in this area, he used the fiScal year 1983 as an example in Which the government spent $7Th3 billion directly on business. e spending included \tax credits, direct spending Programs, and credit programs/' However, it ex- cluded defense purchases, research and develop01ent e~nditures, plus many other busmess-related costs, which added up to $350-$375 billion. -· !~ether with.the other· figure, au.uost half of the federal budget was spent on business in some form.· Not only has government helped those businesses in need, it h~s actually helped certain industries .get their start. The airline industry, for example, had its base in the United States Postal Service. In addition, much of the research which helped the computer industry progress was conducted by the government. Fritschler asks, with such a strong relationship between business and govern. ment and the major role of corporations. within the government, ''What happened in the last twenty years to turn this around?\ Fritschler believes that busi-nesses began to resent .government intervention in the 1960s. H~ says that early regulation worked in favor of businesses as it \permitted remarkable.\ ife said that such industries as airlines, natural gas, banking railroads, and telecommunications have greatly profited from Carter's deregulations, alth()ughit failed in the trucking industry. Carter a'lso worked t() improve regulatory management and began a regulatory council. He also began tbe Calendar of Federal Regulation as a guide to all federal government regulators. Fritschler then talked abaut Reagan and· his reforms ill regulation and deregulation. He said that regulation wa~ a much bigger iSsue in Reagan's campaign than in Carter's because \it was elevated by the candidate himself. R,eagan proceeded with a policy of .regulatory ventilation,\ in which he looked at all regulation, analyzed it, and tried to slow it down. He was successful in retarding regtilatory growth in several ways: there were actually fewer regulations, .. fewer regulatory agency employees, and increased budget cutting of the agencies. Fritschler was careful to explain that Reagan's Dr. A. Lee Fritsc;hler spoke last Monday on \Regul·ation and >Oereguiation in the Carter and Reagan Administrations.\ cut it back. the office had already reviewed 2,700 new regulations, of which only five percent were not approved. _development\ while protecting it. Re-gulation was more purely economic in the beginning, Fritschler continued, \but in the '60s, the focus shifted and there was a dramatic change. We shifted from an era ... of focus on economic .regulation to a focus on social and enm virqnmental regulation.\ It was this shift that prompted a negative re~ction from the business community and caused the \tum-around\ ill busines~goverrunent relations. . achievements have slowed dow.n regulation, but not really According to Fritschler, President Reagan has also .increased the direct role of the White House and the executive branch in regulatory proceedings. A major step was to give the Office of Management and Budget ( OMB) more power to review regulations. By January of 1982, The last part of Fritschler's lecture was about the role of regulation in the future. He said lt would become an even more important aspect of politics. There will be more of an effort Continued on page 4 In the 1960s, new reglilations were applied differently and to · many more industries than before. Many of these recent regulations, including equal employment opportunity, retirement benefits, and en- virorunental protection, apply to all corporations, not just a few. These common causes \gave them (the industries) _the political opportunity to organize some opposition.'' · · Another change in policy took place in the regulatory ad- ministrative agencies. The old agencies had been very well defined, \quasi-judiciaP' organizations in which a business could lodge complaints at formal hearings. In the shift toward social regulation, the agencies had to focus less on the purely economic solution, and look more toward protecting society and the environment. This protection involved such causes as \safety in the work- place\ and \environmental protection.\ Because the agencies needed to put forth this new type. of protection, they could no longer exert concrete, judicial authority, but had to switch to more \generalized rule-making.\ This new .type of regulatory procedure was much more informal and more like legislative procedw:e. Industry did not have as muCh power to command the hearings as it did before because formal jQdicial proceedings were no longer upheld. These changes were primary in dividing business and government. Fritschler then discussed what Carter did with regulation and deregulation because it was Carter who felt the brunt of the pressure when business was t!Jrning against regulation. Fritschler said that qCarter was out-of-step with what in- dustry wanted ... he went after deregulation with a vengean- ce.\ Carter himself was a small businessman who looked upon regulation negatively. He greatly reduced regulation, but only economic, nQt social or environmental regulaticn. In the end, jt was the corporations themselves that fought his deregulation policies because they believed their protection was being revoked. Fritschler believes that, in the long run, Carter's policies have been qJJite helpfUl to in- dustry. He said, \The record of deregulation in the carter years iS absc)ltttely outstanding and .. Security More Visible\ Continued from page 1 start of a shift and returned to student foot patrol shift. visitors to the College. security at the ·shift's com- Picolla, who was subbing for a Unfortunately~ it is not a job pletion for the night. At 10:30 worker, and sophomore sought after by women on p.m., a second door check of the Lawrence Wilder were on duty campus. Three women quit last first floor doors and windows is that evening. Equipped with a semester which now leaves only made ill this complex. blank security report, walkie- two or three female student At the beginning of ·spring talkie, flashlight, orange vest security personnel out of a total term, a one man ·perimeter (orange y.rilldbreakers will soon of 42 on campus. These women patrol. was establis·hed .by be used t() ·repla~e these vests); - are allowed to work any· shift student s.ecqrity .. This person a.nd key, the .!@~rol.began. . . although. Picolla ~d note tbat walks along the lower campus Throughout the walk, Picolla student security does try to use checking the dQrmitories, and Wilder answered further \discretion in regards to parking lots, and ·North and questions. They stated that women\ security personnel South Lanes. There are two their duty is merely to patrol shifts. He does not believe that .shifts here: One from 8:30p.m. various campus buildings and it would be wise to have a to midnight and the other from dormitories and to make sure woman security person work 12:00 a.m. to 3:30 a.m. they are locked up tight. The the midnight to 3:30 a.m. According to Salvador, this new Arts Building was checked first, perimeter shift, for instance. added shift has proven very followed by North College.- A \We don't think it's good effective. door was open in North so because of the past incidents,\ ·Student security encom- Picolla called into security to added Picolla, referring to passes a great chWlk of working see if it should be open or not. security problems involvi:~1g .students at Union. With 42 Since no college worker was to women on campus during students, 19 of which are· on be working in there at the time, winter term. wor~ study, this policing body is Picolla was told to lock it. He Student security has been quite large. Howevei\ obviously then noted this incident on his criticized in past years for not not all of these students work report sheet. Richmond and taking its job seriously. full-time, a seven-llour week. West College were next. However this,. like most things, Many student security people BasicallY, Wilder and Pi colla is not the case with all of these work only three an:d one-half walked in a large circle around workers. Obviously, there are hours per week and others just the campus, checking each some security students who act as substitutes for persons building along the way: Fox, may not, or have not in the who may not be able to work on Davidson, Webster, South past, do their job as effectively a given night. College, the Skellar, Silliman as possible, especially on cold Pierce Fitzgerald, a former Hall, the Administration winter nights. Student security Union Campus Security Building, Hale House, Old personnel are allowed to take sergeant, is now the assistant Chapel, Wells House, Job breaks during their patrol, but director of security at Union. Place01ent, Lamont House, not when this time extends for a Therefore, be has the job of Humanities, the Nott, Social half hour or more. If a student supervising student security. Sciences, the library and back security person is found not to As to Campus Sec~ity itself, to the Psychology Building. The be doing his.or her job, he or she Picolla expressed a cooperative order may vary on a given is called before a security effort between that group and night, however. In either case, disciplinary board whereby student security. \From the Social Sciences and Humanities each side gets to relay its story. students; point of view, the are· locked up between 10:20 Clearing of all charges, officers do a very good job,\ p.m. and 10:40 p.m. At 11:00 suspension or firing may then said Picolla. They are \more p.m., the library is cleared out ensue depending on the in- than willing to help\ and \we with the foot patrol's nocence or guilt and degreee of appreciate their support very assistance. The student workers the incident. However, rarely is much.'' also take a look around the S & a student person delinquent in The training process for E complex. his or her duties to this extent if student security personnel is Throughout the . evening, at all. not long, but extensive. In the Picolla and Salvador closed Under the auspices of Picolla course of one and. one-half windows and checked out and Salvador, it is hoped that hours, ,.~we cover every post in buildings which were not student security can continue to depth,\ said Picolla . .An officer locked, but should have been. and possibly even improve its accompanies trainees and Campus Security officers were role on campus. Even so, it shows them the shift's route, quite prevalent, friendly, and must be maintained that use of both the key and walkie- helpful. Whether .a problem student security is not Campus talkie, how to fill out bclth a time existed or not, they would stop Security, therefore, these and report sheet, the ·latter of and talk to the foot patrol to see students are not to place which each student security that everything was all right. themselves in any kind of person 01ust fill out upon \Basically said Pi colla, danger whatsoever while completion of each shift. This \we just try to be. visible.\ working. With this com- brief. form is used to note any Student security also serves plementary relationship bet- incidents encountered during other purposes ~s well, ween Campus Security and the evening, stich. as an open however. It is often·caUC!d upon student security, however, door, and must then be turned to work traffic control on effective security measures on into Campus Security-. campus during events and cbmpus may be ensured. At 8:40 p.m., this reporter asked for information by accompanied · the evening

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS. Mo_t' 3, 1981 Phi Beta Kappa Election Results Alpha of New York Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa held its annual election meeting on Monday, AprD 30, and· is pleased to announce its ·newly elected members. The following new members from the Class of 1984 were elected: Ellen B. Arndt Karen Balla ban JillBercow Jean Bruch EJ.izabeth Carr Rachel J. Cohen Susan R. Cohen James Danziger Lawr-ence Deutsch Michael Factor Paul Ginsberg Hilary Haftel Mark Klaiman William Lennen Pamel'a Marcu~ NalinMehta Naomi Mendel GreggS. Meyer Sharon J. Parish Brian D. Pattison Lawrence Rifken Juliana Rodgers Peter Ruggiero . Peter Schulam . Lisa Seemann : TimothyJ.Smith · Winthrop Thurlow Greg Tobin Karen Wytrwal 'From the Class of 1985, thefoHowing new members were elected: Je~nifer F. Inm0;n Sarah Schaefer Jeffrey Van Detta Bnan G. Papern1k John Whalen Those of the Class ()f 1984 who were elected last year as juniors are: Cheryl L. Harkness David A. Katz Jonathan D. Ruzi Theresa P. Shank Barry J .. Tils . . Students interested in running for th~ following elected offices for the 1984o85 school year should pick up petitions in the Student Activities Office. Student Forum President Vice~President for Finance Vice-President of Administration Junior Trustee Senior Represente~tive (3) Junior Represente~tive (3) Sophomore Representative (3) Academic A Hairs Representative Pictures for Concorcly will be taken Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Concordy OHice. Petitions. along with TYPED statements, are due in Mrs. Marra's office .(Student Activities) by 4:30 p.m., Monday. May 7. Class Representative petitions require 100 signatures from the respective class. All other petitions require 200 signatures from any full time students. • Juniors Win $10,000! All you need is the best idea of how to spend $10,000 and one year on international travel. Sounds rough! Watch for further details, and plan to apply for the Thomas J. Wats.on Traveling Fellowship. PLO Advocate At Union Dr. Clovis Maksoud, Arab League Am- bassador to the United Nations, will speak at Union College. Dr. Maksoud: •.• advocates \the dismantlement of the present state of Israel .•• \ •.. says,\ Arabs do not concede that Jews constitute a nation , •.• as ambassador to the Arab League announced the ex- pulsion of Egypt from the League as a consequence of its attempt to make peace with Israel. The .presence of Dr. Maksoucl, propagandist for the Ar.ab League, and apologist for PLO terrorism, is not consistent with the theme of the Anwar Sadat Peace Lectureship. THE UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS IS ENCOURAGED TO JOIN A PROTEST OF DR. MAKSOUD, THE ARAB LEAGUE AND THEIR POLITICS. Monday, May 7th 7:30p.m. EFFECTIVE 4/23/84 • 6/15/84 Two Summer C/ourses for Union Students only Offered by Union College In New Yo·rk City CS 15 h~troduction to Computer Programming CE> 970015-52 $575 + $25 lab fee Introduction to computer organization and assembly language. The use of computers in problem-solving with emphasis on the p,rogramr:n ing lang·uage PASCAL; data representation, algorithms, programming techniques and debugging. At least eight progra·ms Will be written and run using. both mainframe and m·icros. Prerequ.isfte: high school algebra. Wednesdays, June 20-August 8 (classes normally held July 4 and August 8 will be held on Mondays those weeks l s: 30-8: 30 p.m .. Location: 40 W. 40th St. ACC 10 490010.r52 Ad:junct Prof. Michael Gargano Financial Accounting I $475 Basic accounting concepts and procedures. Double entry book.keeping, balance sheets and income statements., financial relationships (accountability, price level changes, rate of return, sta,tem'ent relationshi,ps, working capital and cash fl<iwsJ. For undergraduate students. only. l · Tuesdays, June 19·August7 5:30-8:30 p.m, Location: 622 Third Avenue Adjunct Prof. Jonathan Shiff PLEASE: NOT'E: The College retains the right to cancel either course if the enrollment is i.nsufficJent. - REGISTRATION AND..-- 1 NFORMATION: , Graduate & Continuing Studies Wells House Union College 370-6288 HOW IN THE ,WORLD DID YOU ACCUMULATE All THA'T STUFF THIS YEAR? .... And what are you going to do with it? Adirondack 1:railways will ship your bags, boxes; suitcases, tr.unks, books, teddy bears, bikes, sl<ates. skis, cartons, records, bundles . and laundry home for you . 2•0- ·_. ~ · regular package express rates at OFF Just show your student 1.0. card to our package express ... . . . and let us do the rest! For Information Call: Memorial Chapel Steps 1 n honor of 1 sraeli Independence Day, the JSU will present the movie Operation Thunderbolt Monday 1 May 7th, 8:30 p.m. in 55016. Sponsored by Adirondack Trailways,. The Travel Center 22 State Street, Schenectady (518) 346-3415 or436-9651, ext. 17 ... # JSU. P.S. We'll take you home too! - - g, In a Pr to4 Sp pr, Er A4 M; be Ha ~ Ne ba COl de1 Un In ma inv inv wil pia am rea em evE dUJ rec hYJ s to Ad' witl per; Coil Gre } . Un tinl oft ma u· ,, be~ Ch; stu put E one for eve COll WOJ incl see:

- • CONCO.IlDlENSIS, MaJ' 3, 1984 Pagel CAMPUS_ 'NEWS BRIEFS- Sere huck To Talk A talk titled ''A Piece of Cake S o m e t i m e s C a u.s e s Indigestion :''The Financing. of a Real Estate Development Project\ will be held at Union today, May 3, at 3:45 .p.m. Speaker is Jerome Serchuck, president of Jerome ·serchuck Enterprises. · Sponsored by the Institute of Administration and Management; the lecture will be held in Room 312, Bailey Hall, Md is open to the public. Serchuck is a graduate of New York University with a bachelor's degree · in ac- counting~ and received his degree from the New York University Law School in 1952. In addition to being a phar- maceutical executive,' he is involved in real estate as an investor and developer. His talk will provide an overview·of the planntng, building, financing and marketing of a residential real estate project. He will emphasize the strategies- and events which came about during the severe mid-1970 recession and 1980-82 hyperinflation. . Serchuck was recently named to the Trustee Board of Advisors at Union and serves with his wife, Joan, as chair- persons of the College's Parents Committee. ·He is a resident of Great Neck, N.Y. Mash Revisited Author David Reiss will be at Union Friday, May 4, presen- ting an intimate backstage view of the actors, crew and sets that made \M-A-S..H\ a hit series for 11 years. \An Evening of M-A-8-H\ will begin at 8 .p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Tickets are $2 for students and $3 for the general public. Reiss visited the M-A-8-H set one day as a .guest and stayed for more than . two years, eventually publishing his ac- count of the show's inner workings. His talk at Union will include tales ·of .behind-the. scenes pra~tical jokes and of the warm relationships among cast members, as·wellas a film of the series~ \Fabulous Flubs.'' . Reiss holds a B.A. from the State University at Stony Brook and M.A.'s in education from Stony Brook and in TV-film from the University of Michigan. He has written, produced and directed documentaries and in- formationa:l programs for public broadcast.,. and has taught photography, fibn and television at various univer- sities. He now writes for television. Parents' Weekend To BeHeld Union's 34th annual Parents' Weekend will be held Friday, May 4, to Sunday, May 6, with ·activities planned f-or the entire family. Highlighting the weekend will be the traditional Prize Day awards ceremony, to be held Saturday· morning in .Memorial Chapel. Each year a select number of Union students are recognized on Prize Day for academic and athletic achievements, as well as for outstanding contributions to the College. Many Parents' Weekend activities are open to the public. Among them is a gala per- fonnance by the Men's and Women's Glee Clubs Saturday at 8 p.m. in Memorial Cbapel. The concert of 18th century music features invited soloists and an orchestral assemblage of the country's leading per- formers on historical in- struments. Admission is $6 and tickets are available in the Student Activities office at Union and at the door. In· addition, autbor David Reiss will present an inside look at the hit TV show \M-A-S-H\ Friday evening at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Tickets are $2 for students and $3 for the general public. Other activities include campus tours, a panel discussion on \Opportunities for International Education at Union,\ an art exhibition, the film !'A Union of People\ and tapes of highlights from the 1983 football season. . . .. . -. ·- ------- -- -- I·FC ·Escort Service WHEN: Every Thursday, Friday & Saturday Night WHO: Any Union College Woman Needing an · Escort to Her Destination HOW: Call 370-6178 and ask for: the ESCORT SERVICE This. program is voluntarily staffed b.y brothers from the Union College Fraternity system. AT THE RAT Coming Events • Entertainment Sat., May 5th l0-2 a.m. The new wave sounds of THE USHERS Thurs., May lOth 10-2 a.m., BRIDGET BALL Sat., May 19th 10-2 a.m. Union College's Own NET WEIGHT Sat., May 26f·h 10-2 a.m. Back By Request '{HE NIGHT OWLS Am/Jassador Moksoud Yisits Ambassador Clovis Maksou~, perma11e11t observer of the League of Arab States to the United N\alions and chief representative of the Arab League to .the United States, will speak at Union on \Prospects for Peace in the Middle East\ Monday, May 7. His lect11re, sponsored by the history department, Will begin at 8: 30 !).Ill. in Memorial , Chapel, and is ·open to the public. Maks()ud, 52, served as Arab League ambassador to India and Southeast ASia in the 1960s and was the league's special envoy ill the U.S. in 1974 and 1975. He \Wa$ senior editor of Al- Abram in Cairo, Egypt, from 1967-71 and later editor-in-chief of Al•Nabar Weekly, published in Beirut, Lebanon. A Lepanese national, Maksoud· is a well-known journaUst who has written several books on the Middle East, including The Meaning of Non-AligDIIlen.t, . The Crisis of the Arab Left, Reflections on Afro-Asianlsm, and The Arab Image. He is a graduate of the American University of Beirut, George Washington University and Oxford, and is now a lawyer by pmfession, Lamont Professor Speaking Jaroslav Pelikan, Sterling Professor .of History and William C: DeVane lecturer at Yale University, is currently visiting Union as Thomas Lamont Visiting Professor in the English Department. Pelikara has written numerous ' studies of the Christian tradition, of early Church fathers, and of the Christian intellectual. He is a leading authority on the Refonnation, and in 1~83 received from the NEH tbe Jefferson Award as distinguisbed American scholar of the year. More recently Pelikan wrote the cover article for the New York Times Magazine (September 18, 1983) to commemorate the five- hundredth anniversary of Luther's birth. Pelikan visits Union (Juring the weeks of April30 and May 7. He will deliver a public lecture, \Martin Luther-Doctor of the Church and Prophet for Our Time,\ at Memorial Chapel, Union College, at 8 p.m. on May 8. A reception will follow in the Milano Lounge. In addition, Pelikan wlll deliver a series of eight lectures at Union which will consider the _ intellectual history of the · Middle Ages~ These lectures will be held today, May 3 and. May 7 to May 10, at 11:30 a.m. in the Hwnanities Building, Room 014. Union and the Department of English welcome the com- munity to any and all of these lectures by this distinguished visitor. Lunchtime Colloquium Sponsored The last in a series of lun- chtime colloquia at Union sponsored by the President's Commission on the- Status of Women will be held Tuesday~ May 8, at 12:30 p.m. in the · Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall. Anne Higgins, instructor of English, will present a lecture on \Medieval Women.\ Ih her talk, Higgins will discuss the myth of courtly love and its consequences for the study of medieval women. The lecture is open to the public. Bring a lunch; coffee and tea will be provided. Higgins joined the facUlty at Union last fall. She Is a graduate of the University of Connecticut and holds an M.A. in English from McGill University, an M.A. in French from the UniVersity · of Massachusetts and an M.A. in Medieval Studies from Yale University where she is com- pleting a Ph.D. She has taught at Yale, the University of Massachusetts and the U.niversite de B.ordeaux in France. A colloquium on women's needlework by Prof. Linda Patrik scheduled for Wed- nesday, May 16, has been cancelled. Photojournalism ·Course To Be TauRht Anne LaBastille will teach a weekend course· in photojour- nalism at Union May 11·13, offered through the Office of Graduate and Contin11ing Studies. The course will help students develop their .photographic and writing abilities, including the pr()cess of selecting photos ,and sub- mitting articles for publication. LaBastille also will present a slide-illustrated lecture on' '1be Adirondacks-My Backyard\ Friday, May 11, at 8 p.lll. in Social Science Building R.oom 016. She draws from ex• periences living alone in a log cabin on a remote lake as well as from her work as a photojournalist for National Geograpbic Magazine and as a commissioner for the Adirondack Park AgencJ. To register, contactthe Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies at Union, Wells House, 37()..6288. Writing Center ToBe · Established This is the first an- nouncement of the establish- ment next September of a Writing Center at Union. It is also to solicit the interest · of current juniors, sophomores, and fr.,eshman who could serve as writing. tutors for the center. The Writing Center will furnish help to any student in his or her writing-guidance in the process of writing, fl.\orn getting started to finishing up. The center will also be glad to confer with faculty on writing assignments, evaluation, and the means of Using writing in any course as a device in learning. Student tutors will be available for several hours each day to confer with writers on their work. They will be sup- ported and trained by the directors of the center. While the tutors must of course be adequate writers themselves, their knowledge of the finer points of grammar is probably less important than their abilities as patient listeners and perceptive encouragers. Students interested in applying for the positions of tutor sbopld attend an Information Meeting ou Tuesday, May 8, at 4:30 p.m. ih Humanities 116. Those unable to attend :may reach me, Alan Nelson, by leaving their nam.es and telephone numbers in my mailbox in Humanities 212. Fathers and Founders of the Middle Ages J~roslav Pelikan/ Anne Higgins (Lecture Series to be given in Professor Higgins' Class, English 52 (Literature of the Middle Ages), which meets in HU 014, 11:30- 12:241.) The leetures and diScussions will be organized on the basis of E.K. Rand, Founders of the Middle Ages{C!Ullbijdge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1928). Each lecture will seek to put Rand's question into the context of the present \state of the art,\ and the discussion that follows will relate the issue to other aspects of medieval literature and thougbt as these are being studied in the course as a whole. · 3 May. St. Jerome the Humanist. Humanistic scholarship in the Carolingian era. The monasteries as centers of both classical and Christian learning. The idea of a ''medieval hwnanism\ (Richard Southern}, and the concept of a \twelfth-century renaissance\ (Charles Homer Haskins) Erasmian humanism as both the product and the rejection of the Middle Ages (Erasmus as the new Jerome).. . 7 May. Eoetbius, the First of the Scholastics. The place ofE.K. Rand in the history of Boethian scholarslli.p. The continuing puzzle of The Consolation of Philosophy. Boethius as the pupil of Augustine and the translator of Aristotle. Toward a definition of '!scholasticism\ and of the relation d Boethius to it. The subsequent career of Boethius: Aquinas, Dante, and Chaucer. 8 Ma:y. 'The New Poetry. Classical and vernacular roots of medieval literature. The medieval picture of Vergil. The secular poetry of the Middle Ages. The relation of Latin and vernacular poetry, both secular and sacred. The troubadors and De vulgari el41quentia. Relation between the Middle Ages and the Renaissance in the cultivation of the vernaculal'. 9 May. The New Education. The monasteries, the cathedrals, and the courts as educational centers ill the Middle Ages. The\universities\ of the Byzantine empire and their culture. The philos&phical, theological; scientific, and literary significance of the rise of the universities. The unique status of the University of Paris in the thirteenth, fourteenth, .and fifteenth centuries. 10 May. St. Augustine and Dante. \Allegory\ as a literary form and as a method of biblical inter-pretation. The Divine Comedy as an Augustinian !'epic\ of the relation between nature and grace. The problem of Dante's alleged Thomism: Madonnet versus Gilson on \Dante as theologian.\ The ambiguous relation ofDante to the Renaissance ( cf. Burckhardt).

Page8 <llDnrnrbirnsis Foumkd al linton Coll~t 1877 ------------ ----------- Unfair D . . . ti IScnmma.on The students, faculty and staff of Union College are ~ry fortunate to have a dedicated and hard-working paysical plant department. However, the reputation of this department and its employees was damaged recently as a result of information included in an article in the April19,l984 issue of Concordiensis. The article contained two pieces of information which led to this unfortunate result. First, it described an in- cident in which a physical plant employee accosted a female student. Second, it described a new hiring policy which will check the criminal records of only physical plant workers. The resulting degradation of the entire physical plant department was unfortunate and unintentional on the part of Concordiensis. Since the article appeared, some students have expressed fear of physical plant employees. It is unfair for these students and others to assume that since one employee was arrested all others are. equally as dangerous. If this was a logical conclusion, then students should also fear their professors as well as all other students. Obviously, if one member of a group commits a crime, the other members are not guilty as well. The Administration has also hurt the reputation of the physical plant workers with a new hiring policy which reinforces the students' fear. This policy, as described by Vice President for Finance and Ad- ministration John Hauser will only affect physical plant employees. The fact that this policy singles out the physical plant is an insult to that department's workers.. The policy should apply to all employees of the College and not to just one class of workers. Many employees in the physical plant have worked at Union for several years. For many of them,. Union is a major part of their lives. Some of them take classes here, and some of them have children who go here. In any case, Union is important to them and they all want it to be the best and safest place possible. The physical plant employees realize that there is a need for a hiring policy which protects the well-being of the college community. However,. this policy should apply to all employees of the College in order to ensure equal protection for all. CONCVRDIEN!:i/S, Mu_1• 3, 1984 LETTERS New Hiring Policy Qu~stioned To the Editor: Two weeks ago an article appeared in Concordlensls which explained an incident involving the accosting of a female student by a nighttime employee of the physical plant. Subsequent investigation revealed that the alleged at· tacker, who had been with the college for a period in excess of two years, is a convicted rapist on parole. After turning the employee over to local authorities the college im· mediatelv. and rightfully, dismissed him from their employ. As a result of this unfortunate occurrence the college has adopted a hiring policy which went into effect this past April 1. The new policy, as outlined by Vice President for Finance Mr. John Hauser, seeks to rectify \a weakness that had never QE!en exposed before.'' By ·establishing a process through which potent!al employees mUst authorize law enforcement agencies to notify Union of their arrest recor~ the- new policy addresses a noble purpose. As concerned members of the Union community we are, no doubt, primarily interested in the safety of ou.r enYirons. On this count the quick action taken by college administrators should be commended. However, this new policy has been made to apply exclusive~y to potential employees of the physical plant. It is with specific regard to this fact that we deem the new policy to be acutely ·discriminatory. Fur- thermore, considering the subject matter around which the policy has been drafted, singUng out the physical. plant provides administrative decree for the utmecessarystigmatizing of our current maintena.nce staff. Should college administrators have firm reason to believe that the implementation of this type of hiring process can provide an important device for enhancing the safety of our campus then it is not fair, and logical, that ~uch a policy should be made to apply to an potential college employees? Application of such · a policy to just the physical plant assumes that ''this class. of Individual\ represents a greater risk to safety and, henceforth, deserves special consideration. As concerned students and, admittedly, friends of the physical plant, we strongly urge · support ·.for the immediate retraction. of this new policy- alter whiCh certain ad- ministrative personnel should take a more enlightened look at the reasons for a policy decision which was apparently made hastily and with poor judgement. Sincerely Charles J. Phillips Michael Brice More Recruitment Needed To the Editor: Upon becoming a senior, I had hoped to take advantage of the on-campus interviews of- fered by the Career Develop- ment Center (CDC). I had known older friends at other colleges who had received their current jobs this way and it seemed like a fairly painless way to explore careers and at the same time very possibly land a position. However, much to my disappointment only 11 of the 89 companies that were · scheduled to interview this academic year were not looking for engineering and science majors. Of these 11, three were for retail managrnent, three ior sales, two banking, two in- petitive world is my main concern-not listening to others discuss their own line of em- ployment. In addition, I question the amount of support such activities receive. In the February 16, 1984: Concordiensis it was reported that, \only five students expressed enough interest to attend\ · a CDC workshop entitled ''Careers in Government and Public Affairs.\ ln other words, the number of students in at- tendance equalled the number of panelists from the public sector. I cannot argue that it is not important to know and be aware of different career fields. However, I think this purpose . could best be served by en- couraging on-campus recruiters to . visit Union enabling students to interview for jobs and learn about com- panies and occupations at the same time. The current philosophy guiding the CDC emphasizes exploring careers and visiting in those fields you might like to enter. Although this might be fine for juniors, sophomores, and freshmen; when one becomes a senior getting a job is the only prac- tical objective. As the situation stands now, the needs of seniors who have ma.jore<l in the humanities and social sciences and will be entering the working world simply are not being met. Name withheld upon request surance, and one financial·~=======================~ management. The CDC, at their I meetings 1:1t the beginning of fall and winter terms, gave the impression that companies looking for liberal arts graduates do not \go out\ in- terviewing anymore and that is why more of them are not scheduled. After carefully researching the issue, I have . . foUnd the contrary to be the case. The number beside the · following schools indicates the number of companies that visit there annually recruiting for liberal arts majors: Williams 80; Colgate 57; Trinity 54; Bucknell 42; (Business & Economics 62) ; Colby 35 plus; Franklin and Marshall35; Bowdoin 29. So what is it that the staff of the CDC does do? To be fair, they do work very hard scheduling workshops, panel discussions, and career ob- servation days. These are all very nice and a great deal of fun, but they are not going to get anyone a job. All they may possibly produce is a few contacts. Although I know I cannot speak for the rest of the Class of '84 in my predicament, finding a job in today's com- All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 5 p;m. each Tuesday before publicati- on. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. EditorsMin..chief News Editor Associate New Editor Features Edib>r Associate Features Editor Commentary Page Editor Arts Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Associate Sports Editor Advertising Editor Associate Advertising Editors Photo Editor ~oclate Photo Editors JulieAbelman~ r>omh'f~ets()n · Gayle Rosenfeld Janaaran Franklin Schneider Betsy Treitler Peter Mohr Debbie Albert, Brian Laux Karen Greaves, Jill KaUfman Drew Hurley, Lynn O'Brien Doug Baumgarten Mary Ann Gagliardi Debbie Rt)se. ·· Ellen 'SiitJp Daphne Chigas John Barofsky, Larry Kaminsky, Steve Robbins Sports ~h~() E~tor . - Rof!ert Tang Subsenptton Editors Jun Campbell, Davtd Frantz Staff Tom Barrett, Richard Biegen, Sarab Calderinl, Ted Cann~n. Maureen Col~man, Scott Collins, Lori Cooper, Tod Dimmick, Barbara Doyle, Diane Duffy, Ilysee Feingold, Mike Fox:, Lynn Hano, ~ed Kendris, Michael Knopf, PaulKurker, Karen I.Jssauer, Dave Marin, Georg eA. Murray ill, Matt Nankin, Lori Oliwenstein, . Sharon Pearl, Jtidy·Philipson, Steve Pit·aino, Linda hffael&j B$bltisse1l, ·• Bosenkralltz, · Larry Shapiro, Lauren Sobel, StefanieSpanier, Judie Steinhardt, Janice ~o~pson, · · · ·'1\:al.\oh Tofflef, ScottWyloff l?hota.Staff.,, ..... .·. } ·Jim£ampbell~dllavid'Dwo-rcktn;Ktnc;U·Balm;\''. . Pat Merritt, Patti Sacks, Steve Shapiro, FrankSkorina CONCORDIENSJS is published every Thursday by the student bod'y of Union Colleget Carnegie Ball, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publicatioos Office: Susquehanna l?ubltCfltions, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838. (607) 563-8526. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first class ma.tter. Subscription rate, year z. d&livered anywhere in the United States. Office . 31~55. ' ·· ·· ··. · 1o · ·· ·

OlnnrDrbtrnsis Foundtd at { lmon ('ollq]t 1877 ------------- ------------ Unfair D . . . ti JScnmma on The students, faculty and staff of Union College are ~ry fortunate to have a dedicated and hard-working ptlysical plant department. However, the reputation of this department and its employees was damaged recently as a result of information included in an article in the Aprill9, 1984 issue of Concordiensis. The articlf' contained two pieces of information which led ~o this unfortunate result. First, it described an in- cident in which a physical plant employee accosted a female student. Second, it described a new hiring policy which will check the criminal records of only physical plant workers. The resulting degradation of the entire physical plant department was unfortunate and unintentional on the part of Concordiensis. Since the article appeared, some students have expressed fear of physical plant employees. It is unfair for these students and others to assume that since one employee was arrested all others are. equally as dangerous. If this was a logical conclusion, then students should also fear their professors as well as all other students. Obviously, if one member of a group commits a crime, the other members are not guilty as well. The Administration has also hurt the reputation of the physical plant workers with a new hiring policy which reinforces the students' fear. This policy, as described by Vice President for Finance and Ad- ministration John Hauser will only affect physical plant employees. The fact that this policy singles out the physical plant is an insult to that department's workers.. The policy should apply to all employees of the College and not to just one class of workers. Many employees in the physical plant have worked at Union for several years. For many of them, Union is a major part of their lives. Some of them take classes here, and some of them have children who go here. In any case, Union is important to them and they all want it to be the best and safest place possible. The physical plant employees realize that there is a need for a hiring policy which protects the well-being of the college community. However, this policy should apply to all employees of the College in order to ensure equal protection for all. ·~·~ ' . ~ z;~ ~·-A.;.,.. - . ·~· . ' . - ' CON( 'ORDIEN.'•;t~: MaJ' 3, /984 LETTERS New Hiring Policy Questioned To the Editor: Two weeks ago an article appeared in Concordiensis which explained an incident involving the accosting of a female student by a nighttime employee of the physical plant. Subsequent investigation revealed that the alleged at- tacker, who had been with the college for a period in excess af two years, is a convicted rapist on parole. After turning the employee over to local authorities the college im- mediatelv. and rightfully, dismissed him from thei'r employ. As a result of this unfertunate occurrence the college has adopted a hiring policy which went into effect this past April 1. The new policy, as outlined by Vice President for Finance Mr. John Hauser, seeks to rectify \a weakness that had never QE!en exposed before.\ By establishing a process through which potential employees mUst authorize law enforcement agencies to notify Union of their arrest records the new policy addresses a noble purpose. As concerned members of the Union commWlity we are, no doubt, primarily interested in the safety of our environs. On this count the quick action taken by college administrators should be commended. However, this new policy has been made to apply exclusively to potential employees of the physical plant. It is with specific regard to this fact that we deem the new policy to be acutely discriminatory. Fur- thermore, considering the subject matter around which the policy has been drafted, singling out the physical plant provides administrative decree for the unnecessary stigmatizing of our current maintenance staff. Should college administrators have firm reason to believe that the implementation of this type of hiring process can provide an ' important device for enhancing . the safety of our campus then it is not fair, and logical, that such a policy should be made to apply to all potential college employees? Application of such a policy to just the physical plant asswnes that \this class of individual\ represents a greater risk tt:J safety and, henceforth, deserves special consideration. As concerned students and, admittedly, friends of the physical plant, we strongly urge support for the immediate retraction of this new policy- a'Iter which certain ad- ministrative personnel should take a more enlightened look at the reasons for a policy decision which was apparently made hastily and with poor judgement. Sincerely Charles J, Phillips Michael Brice More Recruitment Needed To the Editor: Upon becoming a senior, I had hoped to take advantage of the on-campus interviews of- fered by the Career Dev~lop­ rnent Center (CDC). I had known older friends at other colleges who had received their current jobs this way and it seemed like a fairly painless way to explore careers and at the same time very possibly land a position. However, much to my disappointment only 11 of the 89 companies that were scheduled to interview this academic year were not looking for engineering and science majors. Of these 11, three were for retail managment, three ior sales, two banking, two in- surance, and one financial management. The CDC, at their meetings at the beginning of fall and winter terms, gave the impression that companies looking for liberal arts graduates do not .. go out\ in- terviewing anymore and that is why more of them are not scheduled. After carefully researching the issue, I have found the contrary to be the case. The number beside the following schools indicates the number of companies that visit there annually recruiting for liberal arts majors: Williams 80; Colgate 57; Trinity 54; Bucknell 42; (Business & Economics 62); Colby 35 plus; Franklin and Marshall35; Bowdoin 29. So what is it that the staff of the CDC does do? To be fair, they do work very hard scheduling workshops, panel discussions, and career ob- servation days. These are all very nice and a great deal of fun, but they are D()t going to get anyone a job. All they may possibly produce is a few· contacts. Although I know I cannot speak for the rest of the Class of '84 in my predicament, finding a job in today's com- -------------- -- ------------------- /\11 lr>ttrrs to the· editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday before publicati· on. All letters. must be signed but nelmes will bC' withheld upon request. petitive world is my main concern-not listening to others discuss their own line of em- ployment. In addition, I question the amount of support such activities receive. In the February 16, 1984 Concordiensis it was reported that, \only five students expressed enough interest to attend\ a CDC workshop entitled ''Careers in Government and Public Affairs.\ In other words, the number of students in at- tendance equalled the number of panelists from the public sector. I cannot argue that it is not important to know and be aware of different career fields. However, I think this purpose could best be served by en- couraging on-campus recruiters to visit Union enabling students to interview for jobs and learn about cGm- panies and occupations at the same time. The current philosophy guiding the CDC emphasizes exploring careers and visiting in those fields you might like to enter. Although this might be fine for juniors, sophomores, and freshmen; when one becomes a senior getting a job is the only prac- tical objective. As the situation stands now, the needs of seniors who have majored in the humanities and social sciences and will be entering the working world simply are not being met. Name withheld upon request Editors-in-Chief Julie Abelrnan, Donna Getson News Editor Gayle Rosenfeld Associate New Editor Jan Baran Features Editor Franklin Schneider Associate Features Editor Betsy Treitler Conunentary Page Editor Peter Mohr Arts Editors Debbie Albert,Brian.Lanx Campus Page Editors KarenGreaves, Jill Kaufman Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Lynn O'Brien Associate Sports Editor Doug Baumgarten Advertising Editor Mary Ann Gagliardi Associate Advertising Editors Debhie fu)se, Photo Editor ~sociate Photo Editors EllenSlipp Daphne Chigas John Barofsky, LarryKamins\ky Steve Robbins Sports Photo Editor Robert fang Subscription Editors Jim Campbell, David Frantz Staff Torn Barrett, Richard Biegen, Sarah Calderini, Ted Cannon, Ma.urecn Coleman, Scott Collins, Lori Cooper, Tod Dimmick, Barbara Doyle,. DianeDuffy, Ilysee Feingold, Mike Fox, Lynn Hano, Ted Kendris, Michael Knopf, Paul Kurker, Karen Lissauer, Dave Marin, Grorge A. Murray m. Matt Nankin, Lori Oli wcnstdn, Sh~ron Pearl, Judy Philipson, Stcvt: Piraino, t .inda Raffaele, Rob Risse II, Amy Rosenkrantz, T .1rry Sh:1piro, l~lurrnSobrl, Stef;.~rJieSv~mier, .Judie Steinhardt,. JaniCe Thompson, Aaron Toffler, Scott Wykoff Photo Staff Jim Campbrll, DavidDworkin;IIeidi Kahn, Pat Merritt, Patti Sacks, Steve Shapiro, FrankSkorina CONCORD lENS IS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308: Publications Office: Susquehanna Public;Iticms, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-3526. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first class matter. Subscription rate, $18 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Office Telephone: 37o-6'155, CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utillzestheCo~ege ~ews~ureau (~) •. (i I l I \ i i , I ' I \ 1 ! ' ' ~ ,I.' . I I . ' ,. ) J }I l ' ' ~ l ( \ t~i l, : l I , .I i; i i ' ' 1 ~

CON(VRDIENSIS, MayJ, 1984 Free Speech Defended To th~ Editor: ~ . While I agree wit~ many Qf ' the statements in the letter in '· last week's Concordieosis regarding Ambassador Clovis Maksoud 1 s scheduled lecture, I disagree with its conclusion. To argue as the letter does, that free speech ne.ed not \encompass views that (are). morally wrong, or would seriously harm others\ is a dangerous premise that can easily 'lead toward the abolition of free -speech itself. · For any single gronp_ to believe that should deterinbne· for others what ideas are ''morally wrong or would seriously harm o.thers'' and then work to prevent those ideas from being heard . constitutes a first step toward censorship. And cen- sorship, as the twentieth cen- tury has taught us so vividly, is the sine qua non 'Of unfree societies. · Ideas in themselves are not harmful. It is ccmduct, not opinion that harms others. The right of an individual to use his or her first stops at the other person's nose. But the right of an individual to express his or her ideas ought not to be inhibited. Ideas ought to be confronted, not avoided. Of course, it is the listener's responsibility. to listen actively and carefully in order to determine whether the ideas being expressed are true and sound or whether they' warp truth through perversion Qf language. Creative listening is a free people's obligation. As free • people we ought not to he able to avoid that obligation by having ''morally wrongt• ideas screened from our hearing. If we do, our own ideas remain unchallenged and. become in- flexible, blocking our own creative action. As Martha · Graham said, \The channel must be kept open.\ Sadat understood this. 'The Union community has the respon- . sibility to listen to Ambassador Maksoud's ideas with creative attention and to challenge his ideas, if we can; with better ones. Donald R. Thurston Chair Department of History Another Vote For Free Speech To the ·Editor: I write in response to the letter written by Professors Berk, Finkelstein, Greenberg, Hansen, and Weiner and printed in your last issue (\Choice Draws Regret\). 1. I agree with their view of Clovis Maksoud and of the Arab League he represents in the u.s. - 2. I agree with what I take to be their view: that since Mr. Maksoud refused to he spon- sored by \The Sadat Peace Lectureship\ series, it is regrettable that the invitation was not withdrawn. Outside speakers should not be allowed to dictate college policy. 3. It seems that the invitation was extended · wUhout the consent of the sponsoring in- stitution-the Department of History. If so, all ad- vertisements should list the name or names of the actual sponsor who should also be asked to pay for the costs associated with the lecture. 4. However, if departmental custom was followed when the invitation was extended, then I take exception to that part of the letter by Berk et al. which argues, in effect, that free speech ought to be restricted at the college. Alluding to 19th century liberal thinkers, my colleagues claim that ''free speech (does) not need to en- compass views that (are) morally wrong, or would seriously ·harm others\ I dare not argue history With historians, but I wonder ho:w far they would go to curtail speech they judge to be \morally wrongt' or harmful. Over the years, for· example, variou.s campus organizations have invited Soviet spokesmen to lecture at the college. Speaking for a government which, in terms of the number of people killed under · its sponsorship, is by far the most barbarous regime in history, these official spokesmen had the audacity to accuse the U.S. of \genocide\ and other evils. The last time I heard two of these characters at Hale House, they were treated to a barrage of questions and comments so critical, so penetrating that, instead. of answering questions, they retreated to a pathetic r& reading of a Soviet leader's latest speech. In that con• frontation of ideas; they lost and they lost miserably. Would my colleagues have denied us the pleasure of watching their hwniliation? · Both legally and philosophically' free speech means free speech. It does not mean free speech for the people my colleagues either agree with or for people they only slightly disagree with. If 1 therefore, there is interest on campus in the nonsense these guests speakers seek to .perpetuate, let these slick promoters of in,. tolerance and hate come and revealthemselves for what they are. This is all the more important because it is impossible to know who is to decide what con- stitutes \moral wrong. 11 Per- sonally, I happen to think the Arab League is morally wrong. Its members-confrontationist or \moderate\-differ only on how soon and . by what techniques Israel and its people should be liquidated. Yet, however clear the issue is to me, I recognize that others may think differently. Even as they watch Israel's legitimate struggle for survival from the safety of distance> they offer cheap advice on howto meet the Arab League \half-way.\ Still, in a pluralistic society, there is no philosopher-king to decide which view is morally right or wrong. . I plan to attend the lecture. I hope Professors Berk, Finkelstein, Greenberg, Hansen and Weiner will also attend. They are fine sch(>lars and superb debaters. r also hope that whoever chairs the meet- ing wi~ insist on our right to engage the speaker in a spirited debate. Let us ask Mr. Maksoud about reciprocity, for example: . Is he going to arrange for a similar appearance by Professor Berk at an Arab · university? Let us press him on Israel's right to ex:ist. Let us confront him with probing questions about terrorism: When is the Arab League. going to instruct its members to stop detonating scho()l buses . carrying innocent Israeli . children?. With faith in the marketplace · of ideas, let us have an orderly, civilized confrontation. Charles Gati Professor of Political Science A Lecture For Peace To the Editor.: rtot started as yet another biased forum for the delivery of The letter published in the a known point .of view. It was April 26 issue of Concordien8is started in an attempt to explore regarding tpe upcoming lecture any possible thread which by Dr. Clovis ,M:aksoud contains might lead toward less tension a great deal of truth. But. it falls in the Mid-East. the Sadat test. Sadat did the Even. though Dr. Maksoud's unthinkaDI.e. He went to the views as of the night of the home of his avowed enemy to- lecture may be completely_ discuss peace. His initiative known, it is still just possible was the best example of that he will offer some unex- creative peace making- plored area where ac- possibly ever. · commodation can occur, but The Sadat lecture series was has not yet been tried. Even he .__ ........... _________ ...., might not be aware of his offer. .-------------..., ·. Perhaps one teacher or one Cotnmentaries Represent the Views of the Author and not the Editorial - Board of Cona cordiensis. student may find an area where a new logic might flourish and grow. Perhaps a question will evoke a response not an- ticipated. We are looking toward the listener, not necessarily the speaker. The real question is: why is he allowed to speak when I,· the sponsor, disagree with his views sri vehemently? The answer is: Is it possible that he may yield the raw spot to save a life or stop a war? I strongly recommend those of you who . consider this issue important to the security of the world to attend. Sometlting may evolve. Nothing is left untried, • including a reevaluation of existing feelings and in- _formation. Nothing can gloss over many of the events which have transpired between Mid-East countries and peoples, but by continually reciting the litany of past actions, we block out further possibilities. We have to , look forward as well as back- ward. Peace will not break out in the Mid-East spontaneously. we must aggressively wage the peace, now, and with the tools ·available. Fredric Miller Union alumnus and lectureship sponsor ·Page9 LETTERS Stop 5. T .O.P. ByBEAUREGUARDSNnTH What is all of this nonsense about depriving students of their Civil Bights? I do not mind if an assembly of students want to form an organization to oppose pornography, but I do mind if that same organization can take away my ability to see · any movie I so desire seeing. I thought we beat that dog enough last term. . It really disttn\bed me when I read that a member of the Union College faculty was quoted. as saying in the 'Issue of the Issue: Pornography at Union?' article printed in the February 16, 1984 issue of Concordiensis that, \I don't believe that it violates civil liberties or free speech to prohibit the showing of these films.'' With such comments coming frGm the faculty, I really began to worry about the education I am getting here at Union. It also worried me that that person is ~rying to prepare · us for the real world, by ad- vocating the suppression of our Civil Rights. Now that this ugly beast is rearing its head once again the · issue must be dealt with one more time. I have to ask the members of the S.T.O.P. group (Students To Oppose Por- nography) why they should stop with their attempt to censor only the showing of por- nographic movies on campus; why not move on and attempt to ban all Clint Eastwood movies because of their display of excessive violence? That group could. call .itself S.T.O.V.E. (I adaed the E myself). Why stop there? Why not ban Fellini and Bergman fihns for their rather unconnected, ab- stract, and artsy ideas about life and death? I don't like or agree with what they have to say, so you shouldn't be allowed to see them here on campus. So where are you going to draw the line on what movies the campus conununity can see or cannot see.? And who left you in charge to make that .decision? I have got nothing against the S.T.O.P. group voicing its own opinion on the showing of pornographic films here at Union; that right is granted to all of .us in the u.s. constitution, under the Bill of Rights. But if you can censor what I want to say, do, or see, within the boundaries of the law, then what is there to stop me from censoring what you say, do, or see, withing the boundaries of the· law? If you still do not see my point then maybe I will fonn an , organizatiom called STOP S.T.O.P. That way I could have anything you say censored because I don't like what you are promoting, doing or saying. If Union College students are required to pay a student ac- tivities fee which in turn help finance · the films which are shown on campust then why can't those same student~ have a say in what movies they want to see? You might rightfully say yourself, \I am one of those students who pays the student activities fee and I want porno films banned from Campus.\ Fair enough, yet seeing that almost every showing of any pornographic movie shown in SS016 by the Union College Film Committee is either sold out or filled to near capacity. (No other movie can claim that achievement . . . not even the free movies on Tuesday nights.) I believe that that is an af- firmative vote by enough students here at Union that they do want to .see at least one pornographic film a term. And if you censor these movies, then you are suppressing my, as well as their I Civn Rights. We are old enough and in- telligent enough to make our own decisions, so don't try to impose your morals on us if we do not necessarily agree and-or want to accept them. And if you really are offended by the showing of pornographic fihns on campus, no one is forcing you to attend them. P.P.S. There will be a general organizational meeting of the STOP S. T.O.P. group in the Skellar on Friday night at 11:00 p.m. All of those students and faculty members who are in- terested are welcome to attend. r .................................. ....,....,.. .. ...,....,.....,....,....,...,., ...... ...,.. .......... , I . AnENTION 1 I · Order the Freshman Record ~ 1 (1988)Now! I I Deadline- May 7 1 ~ Where- Office o.f Student Affairs I 1 Who- Clubs, Sororities, Frater- I I nities, etc. I 1111 Order Now Before S ·I I 1 · It's Too Late_! 1 .,...,.,...,.,.,,,,,..,.,,,,....,..,..,.,,,..,.,....,....,,..,. Women's Lunchtime Colloquium Series presents Anne Higgins speaking on \Medieval Women\ Tuesday, May 8 •12:30 p.m. Banquet Room, Carnegie ' For more info. call 370·6288

Page If) LETTERS Further Outrage To the Editor: It has become imposSible to ignore that something has gone rotten in the history department at Union College. The Anwar Sadat Memorial Peace Lec- tureship, a forum promoting the discussion of peace in the Middle East, has been bastardized and corrupted in order to accommodate the presentation of Dr. Clovis Maksoud. Dr. Maksoud's right to speak on campus is not disputed~he is as welcome here as any other person. However, Dr. Maksoud's ap- pearance under the sponsOJ.~ship of the Anwar Sadat Peace Lecture is an attempt to deceive us. How utterly ironic it is that Dr. Maksoud, the permanent representative of the Arab League to the United Nations, represents the organization which chose to expel Egypt from its membership upon her participation and adherence to the Camp David accords. As a result of Egypt's attempt to establish a peaceful relation- ship with Israel, she was ostracized by the Arab body representing the vast majority of Arab nations. As a representative of the Arab League, Dr. Maksoud's ap- pearance under the auspices of the Sadat lectureship f:!Ulding is a farce, is it not a sad comment on the only Arab leader who has made an attemp~ to create a framewor~ of peace in the Middte East, and on whose name this lectureship was found>ed. Dr, Maksoud has no qualms about making his PQSiti()n clear; he has agreed to speak here on the condition th<:\t the tl1le ''Anwar Sadat Peace . Lectu:.re\ be omitted from his talk. Dr. ·Maksoud's attitude towar-d peace in the Middle East becornes clearer upon in~ vestigation into his political activity. In his outspoken support of the Palestine Liberation Organization he openly advocates the use of terro:rism as a legitimate method of action, and in a publication of the American Israel Public Affairs Com- mittee (AIPAC) Dr. Maksoul;l is quoted as saying, \Once the Jewis.b State (was) abolished, all p~ople would be allowed to live tllere ·freely.\ A very generous alumnus has been kind enough to est1,1blish the A.nwar Sadat Peace Lec- tursh.ip so that .the Union Comrrmnity can gain insight into tile process of establisbing a ju~t. lasting peace in the Middle East. Dt. Maksoud does not belong here on this forum, and [ urge both students and faculty to protest his ap- pearaJlce. Sincerely, Julie Baretz Cause For Alarm To the Editor: On Sunday, April 22, 1984, West College Dining Hall hosted a special Easter dinner for all those students on campus. The meal was considered to be well- prepared by most students who att-ended the meal. The quality of the food, however, was not the problem. During the course of the meal, an incident oc- curred which indicated a serious flaw at West College Dining Hall. As the result of an apparent· mistake in the kit- chen, smoke entered the main dining area and formed ap- proximately a two-foot mass of smoke below the surface of the ceiling. As evidenced by the noise and stir around me, most of the students who witnessed the smoke expected an alarm to be heard. Unfortunately, none of the alanns surrounding the dining hall were activated by this smoke. I realize that every slight mishap in the kitchen of West or in the lounges of any dormitory on campus cannot result in fire alarms every time. This would cause much inconvenience to the students and is not ad- vocated by the author. When a two-bot mass of smoke appears below the light fixtures of any buildiltg on campus, however, I would hope that ·the alarms would be sounded. The dining hall, especially with the number of stu.dents it contains, should not b-e an exception to this principle. Although some in- convellience would have oc- curred if the alarm had been soundEd, the safety aspect in this case outweighed the potential inconveniences. Similar problems with the alarms have been noted at West during the last few terms. Sometimes, the alarms went off; s~metimes, they did not. An extr~\~ensitive alarm is not being advocated here. But in this day and age when alarms are ~>ounded because of a pOpCorn popper in a hallway, certaillly a smoke alarm should be a!J.le to detect a two-foot mass of smoke below a ceiling. A concerned West eater From CUSS To the Editor: We ·the members of Campos United to Save the Skeller, (CUSS), are deeply concerned at what we perceive to be the current course of events at Union College. Recently we were subjected to a vile rumor that the administration had plans to close the Union College Rathskeller in the future ... Acknowledging the recent slfrge of Skeller popularity, and noting its long tradition as a forum for social interraction, we find this rumor unfathomable. We call upon Dean Mannnola, as a representative of the Union Colle~e Administration, to squelcll this ugly rumor in the fortheoming issue of Con- cordiemsis. If the ad .. ministration neglects to respolld to our request, we will be for~ed to assume that this horrible rumor is in fact, the truth. Respectfully submitted, cuss Marcus Keller Mark Klairnan Andrew Rosen J enifer Thompson All letters to the ~editor must be typed and submitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. ----~----------------------------~· ('ON('ORD/f..'N.\'1 .. \~ MttJ' -~~ 1984 Attendance At Lecture Urged· To the 'Editor: The itnage of Union College as an educational institute will be seriously tarnished if the request of Professor .Berk, Professor Finke.Is.tein, Professor'Greenberg, Professor Hansen, and Professor Weiner is honored. Their proposal of not granting Clovis, Maksoud a· forwn will force Union tc cross the thin line· between an in- stitute of education and an institute for propaganda. The intent ()f this letter is not to justify not to explain the goals or actions of the Arab League; it is, however, a request that aU interested in the Middle East attend Maksoud's presentation .. The five professors are correct in their assertion that the Sadat Peace Lectureship should not sponsor Maksoud. The Arab League, in the company of many other Arab organizations, has shown nothing but contempt for Anwar Sadat, and the peace he at- tempted .. This is clearly visable, from Egypt's suspended membership in the League~ and the moving of the Arab League headquarters from Cairo to Tunisia. Anwar Sadat does not receive the same grandeur iJ} the Arab World that he does in the United States. If tbe dif- ferent views are a result of his trip to Jerusalem or a result of his domestic policies .is as yet unresolved, and unimportant in the context of this letter. The important point is that if Union College presents only speakers who qualify for sponsorship by the Anwar Sadat Peace Lee- tureship, then we had best resign ourselves that few, if any prominent Arabs will be visiting Union College. The professors' Ietter seems. to imply that it is the Arab League that is responsible for the assassination of \moderate Arab spokesmen.\ Not knowing exactly which spokesmen the professors would classify as moderate, I can only assume that SUcb leaders as Sadat, Geymayel, and perhaps Satawri 1 would fall into the category· of assassinated \moderate Arab spokesmen.\ Of these three fallen men, two were assassinated by disgruntled factions of their populations. Only Satawri's assassination cannot be ex- plained by ·internal unrest. If the professors truly mean to implicate the Arab League's involvement in such acts, specific instances are warranted. As for the professors' statement .that, \No organization deserves less a forum for its ideas than the Arab League/' I could not disagree more. Whatever your · personal beliefs on the Arab League, let your beliefs be based on knowledge. For those supporting the LeagUe, attend the lecture and see ~hat t:ype of an organization you are sup- porting. For those against the League, attend the lecture and learn what you oppose. Merely because Union College has not seen fit to insure a ·forum for debate, that does not mean one cannot exist. If you oppose the League then prepare yourself to question .Maksoud. If Maksoud presents something that offends you be .prepared to respond. Maksoud's presentation offers us an an opportunity to expand our knowledge on the. Middle East-be that from hearing the lecture, or from preparing to debate Maksoud~the result is the same. The Middle East is a part ofthe world where opinions . are formulated and actions taken on the basis of ignorance and emotions.. Maksoud's lecture may provide a forum by which decisions can be made with knowledge and un- derstanding. To those· members of the Union College Jewish· Com- munity that may feel my proposal is nothing less than treason against the State of Israel, I can do no more to allay your fears than to tell you ~at thisis notthe case. At the risk of being redundant, I repeat that l do not advocate or support the Arab League, I merely wish to listen, to learn, and to maybe understand a little more about the workings of the Middle East. The sovereign priority Of thi:s letter is to request all, whatever your feelings on the Midi:Ue East, to expand your knowledge, to confront the intellectual challenge of an opposing viewpoint, to no longer accept a one-sided story as education, and no longer hide behind the veil of ignorance . . . to attend Clovjs Maksoud's lecture. Sincerely Mark Klaiman College Employees Take Note To the Editor: . I recently took advantage of a little-used opportunit:y for college employees, and I think that other employees .might be interested to hear about it. As part of its employee benefit package, the College grants its employees one free course per term. Since I started working at the College, I have beentakingcoursesto finish my B.S. With the sUpport ()( my department, I took a leave from my job for the winter term and spent three months in Greece on the Term Abroad program. To my knowledge no other em- ployee or part-time student has taken advantage of the Term Abroad program, and few are aware that they can. The usual requirements~matriculation, minimum GPA, and prerequisite courses-apply to all students. In addition to having granted rne a leave of absence for educational purposes, the College also allowed a tuition. waiver for one course for the term-an unexpected benefit, and generous in. light of the expense involved. A ~erm abroad is, for some, a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. I strongly encourage all eligible students to consider spending a term in another country. For employees who are interested in hearing about my experiences as a Union Term Abroad student,. I would be happy to give you my impressions of tbe program, the advantages and disadvantages, whatever. At a risk of sounding trite or am- biguous I will say, for now, that my Union tenn abroad was like no other experience I've ever had. .. Sincerely Debbie Gray Physics Department TAP Aid Increased To the Editor: On Aprll 19, 1984, Governor Cuomo annoWlced that b.e had signed into law new rUles and regulati(.)ns to increase finan- cial aid through New York's Tuition Assistance Pr()gram (TAP). The new TAP law in- corporates the first year provisions of the Independent Student Coalition (ISC) sup- ported TAP Parity bill. TAP Parity called for a $500 increase in maXimum awards levels and eXpanded· eligibility to include families that earn up to $29,000 annual net taxable income. This means that Union College students eligible for TAP will receive a total of $254,691 more in financial aid next year. On behalf of the Independent Student Coalition, I wish to thank the leader~ in student governiDent and ISC representatives who worked very hard to support TAP Parity. Their decision to invest their free time and 50 cents per student in dues to' the· ISC is well rewarded by this increase in student aid. Without their hard work it never could have been done. niis year's new law makes us one-quarter .of the way to the full four year TAP Parity goal. We'll have to work even harder next year but with continued · support from our members, I'm sure it can be done. Thanks again for all of your hard. work-the students here have the right to be proud of their representative leadership in student goverrunent. Sincerely Jeffrey Serafini Executive Director, ISC Rooms/ Ap,ts. Wanted for Summer----- ...... CoUege students from throughout the country will be at General Electric Cor- porate Research . and Development this sum mer for a technical program and are in need of svmrner housing. Please ca II: Phyllis Martinez at 385-8164

CONCORDIENSIS, Moy 3, 1984 P(lge 11 : ' .. ' . FEATURES Humor- Security: Open House Prof. Reflects Upon Law # By MATT NANKIN Sentor Writer Since its inception in 1950, Parents Weekend at Union College has continually diversified itself to the point where this year's festivities- will offermore than ever toone and all. Added to the schedule this year, for the very first time; is something special that I can only hope will be a fixture of Parents Weekends for many years to come. Of c;:ourse, I am referring to the Security and Safety Department Open House to be held at the Campus Operations Center this Satur- day from 9:00-ll:OO a.m, The official description of the Open House reads as follows: View the operation of . the l)nion Security Control Center •. Staff will be on hand to explain services and answer questions. At this point I can only speculate on what the parents will see at the Open House, but most likely it will include the following: Tour of Reception area: Learn all about the pay phone, the map of Schenectady, and the walk:-up window. If this tour is really stretched to its limits, it just might encompass all of two minutes. 'l'our of Inner Office Area: At this point, parents will see things behind the walk-up window that they are probably not used to. For example, there will be d~sks, chairs, filing cabinets, and phones placed on display as well as a calendar courtesy of a local funeral·home on the wall. Let . tis hlso not forget the clock on the wall that reminds us how time stands still at a place like this. Tour of Adjacent Parking Lot: Here parents will be able to witness Sargeant Dwnphy write outtickets to unsuspecting cars~ The highlight of this part of the tour will be when the parents realize that the cars being ticketed are their own since they failed to obtain a tem- porary visitor~s parking pass when they arrived. . Film: Entitled, 41 The West College Fire Alarm Outbreak of 1982-83~'' this28 minute 'filin will explore the epidemic of fire alarms at West last year and how Union College campus security coped with the problem. After arresting five suspects, an electrical engineering major finally discovered that a loose wire was the cause of all the lat~night alarms. Immediately af- terwards, live off.icers will . simulate how they respond to a real fire alarm which should take about .as long as the fiJin. Lecture: Entitled, ''Union Security: The Man Behind the Badge,\ .this lecture will focus on the personal lives of Union's finest. Learn how the lack of any social life keeps Union's security .officers devoted to their dead-end jobs. Also, fijtd out what doughnuts Security likes best while on duty and which newspapers and magazines they read while in the patrol car. A question and answer period will follow-- although the security officers will be asking most .of the questions. · In all seriousness, Union currently enjoys a level of safety and security un- paralleled by any other college in upstate New York beginning . wit~. the.l~tter .\P·\ .F!o~f!J]).y ., one day there\' will not be any need for such a department at this school. Although this might sound like a ridiculous statement to make, when it comes to security at Union College there reany is no other wa~ to respond. Unde.rgraduate. Psychology Conference By BETSY TREITLER Associate Features Editor The role of women bi society has evolved over the years from mother and homemaker to serving in ·important positions in corporations. Male and female views about a woman's function vary according to generation and according to individual. Elderly people often maintain traditional attitudes and values and consequently continue to believe ,that a woman should care for the 'children at home and perform household .and family duties. Some suggest that the divorce rate is. high and that adolescent behavior is less respectable than in past years because the mother and father are at work. The children, as a result, do not receive adequate guidance. A hotbed of debate is created by free-thinking women who focus on the woman as a person and a citizen. They acknowledge that a female is different from a male but only by virtue of her reproductive ability. Contemporary women maintain perspectives on the role of women which are, in part, based upon their professional duties. Professor Long is temporarily teaching the political science course \Civil Liberties.\ She holds an MA from Washington University and a JD from New York University. She has been practicing law for more than six years, directed a clinical program at dase Western Law School and taught a course on women and the law at SUNY Albany. Presently, she works for Walter and Thayer Law Firm in Albany primarily in Civil rights litigation in social security disability, health law issues, workers compensation and some criminal misdemeanors. She practices and teaches because she believes that ''teaching makes me sit back and reflect on law.\ Professor Long reflects upon her course \Women in Law\ which focused on women from an historical perspective. \Law she says, \shapes at- titudes toward women by virtue of the law, courts and judges influencing cultural values.\ She continued to describe how the \-law prevented women from being citizens.\ Voting rights were restricted and further, married women historically were not permitted to k\eep their own income because they were considered to be incompetent in such areas as possession of property. Consequently, it was difficult .for a woman to .support herself. Coui\t decisions in cases, particularly toward late 19th century, such as Minor v. Happersett demonstrated the feeling that women were essentially \grouped together with children and in- Issue of the lssu~ ' '' . - - ' ' ~ . ' . . ' , . - ' -. . By JUDI PHILIPSON Staff WHAT PHYSICAL IM- PROVEMENTS DO YOU THINK THIS CAMPUS NEEDS? Jamie Gray, '86 We need more and better computer terminals .•. ! think that's really important. Jennifer Brown, '87 How about improving the bathrooms in West College ... or on the whole campus? Sean Gilligan, '64 We need to double tbe size -of the libr~ry- we need a lot more books ... Laurie Segal; '85 rounded Columbia men. I think that would be a definite im- provement. Lance Humphrey, '87 The school should get a bigger and more efficient bookstore ... Tony Pallone, '84 I think another Nott Memorial would be appropriate ... no one should be without two ... Penni Morganstein, t87 They shoUld improve the bookstore, change the format and improve the appearance. Also they should fix the grass around campus ... , Bruce Witherspoon, '87 . They· should make Webster co-ed. So many people want co- ed dorms ... competence.\ It wa~ argued ,in the case that the fifteenth amendment to the Constitution protected the voting rights of citizens. The court essentially ruled that women were not full- fledge people and did not have the right to vote. \Professor Long further cited Bradwell v. Illinois as a case in which the court ruled that Bradwell, as a woman, did not have the right to practice law even after she completed law school and was publisher of a legal journal. Moves were made to reconsider and redefine a woman's position when cases of men battering their wives and wastirtg assets were publicized. A changing economy, from rural to industrial, free-mai\ke~ also instigated a redefinition of women, their roles and the law. Professor Long pointed out that the function of the family unit, which originally served economic purposes in a primarily. agricultural society, changed along with the economy. She refers to the family in an industrial age as \a sort of- humanizing element needed to educate and socialize and essentially represent a haven away from the harsh, work world.\ Further, she noted that the home provided protection for women while it also gave them a plac~ in which they assumed a sense of control. \Now we are reaching a new dilemma,'' says Professor Long, one which is based on the idea that current laws have established a \qualified legal equality;'? She: cites, such examples as male conscription and statutory rape laws which. designate \age rather than age difference\ for legitimate consent for sexual intercourse. Professor Long suggests that this kiiid of law is implemented to discourage males so as to protect females. The protec- tions, the special treatment in terms of minimum work how· legislation and breaks before men and even protection from dangerous jobs are lost in the process of striving toward complete equality between men and women. The protections are justified by the woman's childbearing capacity. They are questioned, says Professor Long, when the law must ad- dress the \interplay between reproductive ability and working in the professional world.'' The 20th Annual New York State Un· dergraduate Psychology Conference will be held in April 1985 here at Union College. An organizational meeting has been scheduled for all students interested in getting involved in the planning and . administration··- of the conference. The meeting will be held Monday, May 14 at 4:00 p.m .. in PY 113. for further information, please contaCt Prof. Lipton. I think the lighting could be improved for a really nice effect on the campus. Maria Dakota, '87 I think that we should import a substantial number of well Circle K Induction -Campus Bands Interested in playing for 11 Camp Union\ on Friday, May 25 please submit: · - De.mo Tape - List of band members 'Nith I.D. numbers To Box 64 or Box 1011 no later than May 1 0! STUDENTS $$$SAVE$$$ Ecstasy Hair Design Quality Precision--Latest Technique~ in Haircare & nesign Students save $3 e»n Haircut $lOon Perm Located next to P&C in Sheridan Plaza off Rosa Rd. & Gerling St. Call 346-5529 . By JEFFREY CHESS Staff On Friday evening, April 28, Circle K members from nine different schools . gathered at the Van Dyck Restaurant to celebrate the induction of the new Union College Circle K Board of .officers. Represented were SUNY Albany, College of Russell Sage, Albany College of Pharmacy, College of St. Rose, Adirondack Community College, Marist, Fordham, Manhattan College, and of course, Union. The new. board consists of . ' President John Rusnica, Vice- president David Dworkin, 'l'reasurer Robert Gross, and Secretary Meg Egan. In ad- dition, Peter Ralbovsky was inducted as Administrative Assistant for Capital Division. In attendance was the Executive Board of New York District Circle K, including Governor Rosemary Manning. Following the dinner and ceremonies, the club went up to the Rafters for a dance party. 'Ibis gave members from an of the different clubs present a chance to get to know each other better on a social level. Interclubs such as this one will frequently occur in the future. Members enjoy meeting members from around the state. The next state-wide event, sponsored by New York District will be a weekend long conference in Utica. In addition to its social events, Circle K, of course, organizes many services and events for the Union Campus, as well as for the community. Possible events include a beer rally, and a dance marathon. New members are always welcome. M~etings are on Wednesday evenings at 7:00 in the fourth floor lounge of Carnegie Hall.

Page 12 CONCONDIENS/.S: Ma.r 3. /984 '- FEATURES On tll:e Career Front: A Japanese Working Ex,perience 'I•J WR~C Report By DIANNE PAVACIC Career Assistant Last summer,Jared' Squires, a senior economics major, worked a5 a Management Trainee for Matsushita Electric Industrial Company in Japan. Matshusllita (pronounced motsushtall) is the biggest consumer Electronics firm in the world as well as the 33rd largest company. Last year, they had sales in excess of $16 billion. The company licenses products under the brand names of Panasonic, Quasar, and Technks. It also controls 50.1 percent (){the voting shares of the JVC corporation. Each summer for the last fifteen year-s, Matshushita has offered an eight week Management Training Program forstudents. While the students ar-e considered tern .. porary \ernployees\ of the company, tile emphasis is not on workin~ but on training. According to Squires, they were told to \obsErve and learn. The main purpose of the program is to create ~international un- derstanding'.\ Jared was one of four students in the 1983 program. HE was accompanied by two Princeton students and a student from Switzerland. During the session, they spent two weeks learning about Japanese culture and the Matsushita Company in general, a week at the world's most efficiEnt battery plant (they make 700· batteries per minute), a week at the Mat- sushita Sch()ol of Government and Management, and attended many lectlll'\es and discussions dealing witll the managerial practices and corporate philosophy of Matsushita Electric. ORIENTATION During oTientation, Jared stayed at the Matshushita Overseas 'l'raining Center (OTC). Jared explains that the Center \is a very rare facility. It takes all overseas Mat- shushita personnel that come to Japan for tr-aining and admits all Japanese personnel that are going abroad to work. The Westerners f:lecome oriented to the Japanese culture while the Japanese learn about the Western culture/' At the OTC, Jared. was among 25 people in his orientation session. They were from all parts of th:e world--Burma, Australia, United States; S. Korea, In-dia, Singapore, Philipines, Switzerland, Brazil and Taiwan. Mter two '\'leeks at the OTC, the four students in the Management Training Program me>ved · to the dor~ mitory that lloused Matsushita male emplo;yees. Jared says that it is {l r-elatively common practice amomg Japanese finns to provide li:ving quarters for thek emploY\ees.'' Apparently, according to Squires, the donns are \very safe, reasonable and extremely close to the com- pany.\ He ~tdded that, \very few of them C()uld speak English and we were the only four Westerners in the whole donn! We tried the best we could to conununicata-we really didn'~ have any chol(!e because we had to live, eat and take baths together.\ H.e points out that there were no private bathrooms-oriy a · large hot bath the size of a small swim- ming pool at the bottom of the dorm for eveJ'yone to bathe in. It was here cLaims Jared, \that some of the most intense con- versations (in Japanese, of course) took place.. They fostered an atmosphere of comraderie among Mat- sushita's workers.'' FACTORIES \My most meaningful' ex- perience of the program was when I .got to see first-hand the famous Japanese labor and industrial relations which have 'been heralded by most American authors as one of the ,prime reasons for Japanese economic success.\ The students visited a battery plant, a sub$idiary of Mat- sushita. Although the plant is ·owned by Matshushita, the division has full autonomy due to the company's decentralized management style. \We learned about the practices of one division within a huge company. We got to see if the Japanese workers are as happy as everyone thinks they are. We were on-line laborers for a week.\ · A typical day went as follows. All the employees gathered together at 7 a.m. to start their day. They sang the company song and recited the company's .principles, did ten minutes of exercises and then went to work. At noon, everyone would stop for a one-hour lunch. At some point in the afternoon they would all take a break and upon completion of the_ day, they would all take hot baths. Jared explains the reasons for this: \The explanation is twofold. First, manganese carbonate is required to make batteries. It is black and can get .all over you while you are working. So, we took baths for cleanl.iitesss. However, second . and more importantly, Matsushita strongly believes in \Skinship\ which is the belief that everyone is equal with their clothes off. In other words, the manager and the worker are no different and therefore they all should be able to take baths tQgether. There is · no such thing as an \Executive Shower Room\ at Matushita.\ It · is because of this philoosophy, Jared believes, that employee dedication is so strong towards the company. The employees feel they are treated fairly and equally. SCHOOL The Matsushita School of Government and Management was founded five years ago. It is funded by a $60 million dollar gift from Konosuke Matsushita. Its purpose, according to Squires, \is to create a more efficient form of government in Japan and hence, create in- ternational goodwill.\ The School pays thirty top graduates from the best Wiiversities in Japan to attend. Once admitted they un~ergo a five year program including strong training in the English language and independent study in the discipline of their choice. One student might study Japanese Defense, or Soviet- China relations or CitiZens' Group Movements. Jared says that, \when they . finish they have no obligation to work for Matsushita. Most go into politics or business.\ \We were the first foreign students to attend the school for more than a day--we had seminars with all levels of students about Japanese management, Japan's role in the future, and ·Japan-U.S. relations. We lived with them in their dorms and they held numerous parties for us!\ The rest of the eight week summer session was spent making trips to Matsushita's administrative offices (Public Relations, Trade, the Company Hospital, Health Administration, etc.) and to a \zillion and one factories! \ The Management Trainees were paid a stipend once a month and their transportation and housing, were all paid for. According to Squires, the only actual \work\ they did for Matsushita was either office work or having to attend formal dinners where they would meet Japanese scheduled to go abroad and would have to talk to them about Western culture. Overall, Jared says that, ~'it · was the best learning ex- perience of my life as far as employment!\ Jared's enthusiasm for .Japan didn't start with Matshushita however. His parents moved to Tokyo four years ago because his stepfather was appoint~d to the position of Scientific Representative for Asia for General Electric's Research and Development Center. Consequently, Jared has visited Japan nwnerous times. During the fall of his junior year he studies at the Kansai University of Foreign Studies independently. This is the same school where the Union term abroad will take place this Fall. In addition, Jared collected over sixty hours worth of tapes from his lectures at Matsushita which he incorporated into his economics thesis on Japanese · M.anagement. And, in case you are wondering, Jared found out about the Training Program from a friend he met w.hile traveling in Japan. So keep in mind that old job search rule on making contacts--J)on;t un- derestimate the knowledge of any person you know!! • 89.7fM nut:.o by DOUG LANDON . The WRUC record hop con· ducted its second remote broadcast from Chuck E. Cheese's yesterday, With B.J. as D.J. Jackie Hatfield, Eric Hornick, B.J., and others have been working hard to m~ke thiS series of remotes a success. This Saturday, the record hop will be seen and heard an the sidewalk in front of Carnegie Hall .iJi a drive to promote the station and participate iii the Parents' Weekend celebration. The tlroadcast is designed to attract parents to the Carnegie area, where they can register for the weekend's activities. Mike Klein is scheduled to D.J. the event. Eric Hornick and Scott Wykoff remind the corrununity that sports line lives on from 11 p.m. to midnight each and every Wednesday. Tune in, and-better yet .... call in! The news department will be making an important switch this summer, replacing UPI wire service with that of AP. The move is designed to make the news feed more efficient and improve the quality of stories. Newscasters who have experienced problems with UPI in the past should especially appreciate this change . The finance committee, in- cluding WRUC representative Andrew George, voted unamimously last Sunday to allow the promotions depart- ment to hire a Union student at nominal cost to create some artwork bearing the WRUC logo. This artwork is needed for promotional giveaways and J)O'sters, and the station thanks the finance committee for its approval in the matter. Having the designs drawn professionally would cost considerably more money. ~e 6: 15 news team, whicb ai;rs its weekly comical in~ terpretath:m Qf world and crunpus happenings on Sundays at 11:15 p.m., has on]y a few weeks left. Most of the team members are seniors and will graduate soon. Tum on WRUC eachStinday at 11: 15 and have a few laughs. The next several editions· should be good ones. Our D.J.'s now have some giveaways and that means prizes for you-but O.nly .if you're the correct caller. Listen to 89,7 for more details~ Look for WRUC . at Camp Union this year. You'll like what you see. Senior Fling Committee Hosts: '~Touch of Class'' A formal dance at the Gideon Putnam in Saratoga Springs,N. Y. 9 p.m.-1 a.m. Friday, May 18, 1984 Tickets on sale soon! Any questions? Come to the Senior Fling meeting to discuss further · arrangements!!! Ambassador Clovis Maksoud Biology Club Meeting The Permanent Observer of the League of Arab States_ to the United Nations, will speak on Prospects for Peace in the Middle East Monday, May 7 8:30p.m. M.emorial Chapel His talk is being sponsored by the His tory Department and is open to the public Date: Mon., May 7 Time: 4:30p.m. Place: Conf. Rm. A '~Come help plan the picnic!'' }. ~ , r ' f r I ( II ( l l l F s ( a 1: c fc I\1 S] B oj P• ~ y T ill al (I - RE wr ter

(VNCORDIJdVSIS. MBJ' 3, 1984 P(lge 13 CAMPUS NEWS SPEAKERS ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENGINEERING SYSTEMS COLLOQUIUM SPEAKER: Jerome Serchuck, President, Jerome S'ercltuck Enterorises TOPIC: A piece of Cake Sometimes Causes .Indigestion: The Financing of a Real Estate · Deveh>pment Project DATE: May 3, 1984 - 3:45 p.m. PLACE: Room 312, Bailey Hall, Union College Ralph Nader organiZation that supports and cond!lcts a. variety of research lind educational projects. to eneourage. an ·in- creased awareness of the needs of the c.itizen consumer. Openings at aUtimesduring the year. NY State Department of Social ServJees: summer in- ternships in Albany for minority college students. The 12 week, paid. internships will ,give in- · dividualS valuable experience in the social senices field. Applications are available in the CDC. Women's Network Room, Carnegie Hall. All interested. women welcome .. HELP WANTED Social Change Jobs. Professional position.s with Public Interest Groups ( PmGs) available nationwide. Work on environmental-social justice-arms control issues. Send resume to: Janet Domenit+PIRGs-37 Temple Place-Boston, MA 02111 {61'7)423-1796. Summer jobs also. ·College Students Needed for ----..---..-._ .... __ · jobs with career posl:!ibilities at Schenectady visiting nurses. Effective May 21, college students who have an interest in the health, social services or hUman services fields, have the opportunity to qualify for .certification as a Home llealth Aide with the option to further their career interests as they serve patients at home. TERMS ABROAD On Tuesday, May 8 at 7:00 p.m. in the Banquet Room there will be an interesting panel for seniors: \How toSurvive After Union.;' Poug Vergith, . SeniQr ,Yice President at Northeast Sa:vmgs; will discuss money matters such as budgeting, loans and savings accounts. Carlene Carlson, Sl:JNY Albany -~f­ Campus Housing Office will talk about important issues related to finding a place to live such as what to look for in an apart- ment, leases, and landlord and tenant rights. There are several places open for the winter, 1985 term in Israel. The deadline for aJr plications is n&-w. Anyone in- trested in the ,program should come to the Terms Abroad o£fice as soon as possible, as plans for the term must be made shortly. ..- CLUBNBWS THEATRE: PARTY:-Thu- r,sday, May 3 to Proctor's to see Hello Dolly. Meet in front of Carnegie at 7:15>topick up half price tickets for$5,$4, or$3 with a student ID. BIBLE STU'DY-Friday, May 4, 4 p.m., Campus Ministry Office. Sr. Joa11 willleada study of and pray with tb.e Gospel of Matthew. .Applican~s will be in- terviewed on a first-come.-first~ served basis. Interested students shoUld contact Mrs. Lynn McGuire by May 9,.1984 (382-7932} for an appointment. CLASSJFIEDS Travel to Rome, Athens, .Lisbon, London, Paris, Frank- furt, etc. from only $99 each way. Call now or send for your FREE brochure. Operators 1 always on duty. Enclose one dollar for postage and handling. Europe Express, Inc. 3460 Main St., Hartford, CT 06120 (203) .522,;. 6580. ' . Car Stereo For Sale. Blaupunkt 20002 AM-FM-- Cassette $150,00. Jensen car speakefs, co-axil, 25 watts per side $30~ Call Roberta at 374- 8769. For Sale-1975 Ford Grenada two door, three speed $800. can after 5 p.m. 3814180. - Friday, May 4 and Saturday, May 5 Schenectady area food pantries will conduct a food drive in area Grand Union, Price Chopper, and P&C super- markets. A similar drive in Feb. raised over 5,000 canned goods in these stores. This drive signals efforts to replenish lo~al pantry shelves. These pantnes :provide several days of needed .food to families in crisis. For more information about Food Ddve locations and hours contact: Pat Obrecht, 346-4445. You and your donations do feed the hungry of the Schenectady area. The Film Committee presents on Tuesday, May 8, \True Grit'' at 7•30, 10:00 p.m. Free. Wed- nesday, May 9, \Pauline at the Beach\ at 7, 9, 11 $1. This weekend; 5/4 thru 5/6, \The Big ·Chill\ at 7, 9, 11, $1. PERSONALS . J . . . Nina's philosophy-\So many men, so little time\ Continued this swnmer? For the sake of Greece I hQpe so! Who loves ya baby? I do! TO PATrY & TEDDY: HOLI- DAY never saw such action! Nice teddy . ya got there--but what did V. WEAR? GOD BLESS those ITALIANS! ! That's better than a Cadbury, huh? SUP PAM: Go to Washington for the weekend and look what happens. Next time why don't you just stay there. Then the phone bill will.be a lot less! PSEUDO-COHABITANT To the brothers of Delta Phi, Thanks for the BBQ. W~ had a great time~ Let's do it again neld: year. Same bat time, same bat channel. Love, Bronner Lost: 1 small grey mouse. If found please return to first floor North. CAUTION: ALVIN is VERY dangerous. But he can be captured using black jelly beans. Sunshine-You'll always be very very special to me, and who knows? Maybe things will work out with time! Always yours; Smiley To the boy with the waxed back, and smashed head, nothing gets between me and my Calvins ... except maybe yours. Love you, the girl with the open window May 4: Starting a Business in the 'SO's, speaker from Coope.ration Extension Association .of Albany County. Sponsored by the Schenectady's · Women's Network, Friday, 12 noon, Schenectady YWCA, 44 Washington Avenue. Members free, non-members $1.00. For more information call Miriam Ballert at 346-6106, or Phyllis Ochs at 382-3500. · May 8: Womeri's-· Lunchtime ColloquiUin Series - Medieval Women, speaker--Anne Higgins, Instuctor · of English, Union College. Sponsored by the President's Commission on the Status ·of Women at Union College. Bring bag lunch-coffee and tea provided. Tuesday, 12:30 p.m., Banquet ·Room, Carnegie Hall. For more in- formation call 370-6288. NEWMAN FOLK GROUP- Sunday, May & will meet in St. John's Chureh at 7:20 p.m. to lead the congregati1m in song at the 7:30p.m. Mass. Typing-Papers typed with professional results by executive secretary. Fast service and accurate proofreading at $1 per page. Call Judy 399-3383. T.S.S. (momma's baby brat, cripple, studly but nerdly)- - Have a great weekend ... a few tips ... don't confuse names, it's tacky, do not have· any \ac- cidents\ it's a strike (of which you have three! ! )against you. · yours: Brat baby No. 2 Dear handsome baby boy, Just writing this to remind you to: brush your teeth, take your vitamins, stay away from all girls (aU you need is M~m anyhow!!) Yes Nucci am a pig- ·but I got it all from you!! revenge for strike 2 complete May 8: Presentation on Rape, sponsored by the Evening Branch of the Women's Alliance of the First Unitarian Church as part of their Violence Against Women Program. Schenectady YWCA, 44 Washington Aven11e, Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. For more information call Anne Donnelly at 382-3290 (work) or 372-5573 (home). INTERNSHIPS. The Center for Study of Responsive Law: Several writing and research in- ternships available in iion-profit NEWMAN CLUB MEETING & SOCIAir-Monday, May 7th, 8 p.m., 4th floor Lounge, Car- negie. THEATRE PARTY-'I:hu- rsday, May 24, Proctor's 8 p.m. to see Richanl Harris in Camelot. Group tickets may be obtained for $10.80 through the Campus Ministry- Office. 370· 6087. Arts . Department presents: Student Voice and Piano Recital. Saturday, M:ay 5 at 10 a.m. in AB 20~. Works by Menotti, Rachmaninoff, Lits~, Beethoven, Schubert, Chopm and Bach will be performed by Jill Bercow, Scott Dexter, Dianne Pavacie, Dai'li Raphael, Janice Thompson and Marlene Waldman. The recital will last one hour.. May 9: 'U~i~n Coll7ge Women's CoiiliillSSlon meetmg. Wedne~day, 1~2:30 p.m., Typing done for students. Please contact 346-5104 Niskayuna area Please contact 355-3239 Knows medical terminology Please contact 377-4215 Scotia area. NEED CASH? Earn $500+ each school year, 2-4 (flexible) hours per week placing and filling posters op campus. Seriotis workers only; we give recommendations. Call now for swnmer and next fall. 1-4!00-243- 6679. Need room in an apartment for next year. Call 6993. Springfest and Neighborhood Walkabout, Schuyler Mansion, Catherine St., Albany, Satur- day, May 5, 11-4, colonial crafts, • fife & drum music, walking tour. The Sociology Department's Educational Program About Central America Presents: Thursday, May 3, 7:30p.m. lnSS016 11 When The Mountains Tremble'' The story of a Guatemalan woman whom history transforms from an inpoverished migratory peasant to a leading voice .in shaping the destiny of her people. Patrice, How's your stomach? Too many hot rolls with butter! Love Jill and Wendy Dwayne, Here's the personal I promised, Love the girl with the third key. Last Day to Withdraw from, a Course is Friday, May 4, 1984. Quote of the Week: ''Bubba likes seconds! \ Moo-r don't appreciate golden showers, thanks anyway! -Chuck MURAT, DIMITRIS, IANNI~ Keep your headlights on BRONNER'S highway. Forum • •• Continued from pg. 4 Day, Aliunni Weekend, and its senior dinner. The FC decided to provide B.L.A.S. with an additional $332 to cover ex- penses for the upcoming Kid's Day. Additional funding requests are still pending. With the committee reports finished, discussion centered upon \Old Business,\ of which there was none discussed. There was also an absence of \New Business\ to discuss . . ' with a motion to adjourn the meeting being propose~ and passed. WPI·X and the Concert Committee present EDDIE MONEY w/specia I guest at Proctor's Theater May 13 at a p.m. Students $8 Tickets on sale today at the Box Office

0 Q) \' 1... 0 u >- c 0 .t: .... c <t: >- .0 0 ..... 0 .r::. c. Page 14 SPO s ByT.B. Sports Staff Congratulations to baseball players Joe Wood and Alex Rita for sharing Athlete of the Week Honors. Wood and Rita have helped to lead the Dutchmen to a Hi. Captain Joe Wood has started off this year in his typical great hitting manner. In his first 12 Ath·lete of the Week games, Joe is batting at a healthy .369 clip with 4 doubles, a triple, 3 home runs and a team leading 24 RBI's. Wood has not only produced at the plate, but is also, a top pitcher for the Dutchmen. This past weekend at Middlebury, Joe hurled a two-hitter to· blank the Panthers 4-0. Freshman Alex Rita started CONCORDif.'NSJ.ft,: May 3, !984 off his baseball career here at Union in the .same manner he left football, playing superb ball. Curently, Alex leads all Union hitters with an awesome .460 batting average which includes 2 doubles, 2 triples, 3 home runs and. not a single .strike out. Rita has also played an excellent center field for the Dutchmen coming up with tnany diving catches. Seniar Joe Wood, who has led the team in RBI's for the last 3 years, is a brother at Sigma Chi and is majoring in Managerial Economics. Alex Rita is a brother at· Beta Theta Pi and is a history major. ~ Centerfielder Alex Rita is currently leading the 7-6 baseball team with a .460 batting average. Stone Boaters Host Race Dwight Moore and the rest of Union College Tennis team currently stand at 2-4. Tennis' final three matches are away. States Ahead For Track ByQIV Sports Staff Men's Track finished their dual meet season with a 4-4 record after a loss Tuesday to RPI and Albany State. Not~ble wins at the meet were Bob Eertagna in the triple jump and Todd Allen in the 200. This past Saturday, some members participated in the Union Open meet with Mark Dunn making an impressive showing in the hammer with a first place throw of 150'6\. Bob Eertagna took two wins in both the long and triple jumps in which he has been consistently successful. Jon Walter came from behind . with a strong stretch drive to take first in the quarter mile open for his first college win. Coach Russ Ebbetts praised Walter's performance. And on Sunday the team went to the Dartmouth Open where a number of quality per- formances were made. Chris O'Donnell qualified for the state meet with .a time of 9:.51.1 in the steeple chase that got him 7th in the high power meet. Winston Britton took fifth in the quarter mile open and Todd Allen tied for. seventh in the 200 meter dash. Rob Mohlar also made an impressive half mile run in 157 flat. At the Union Open, Jenny Dilorio won the javelin with a toss of 116'6\ followed by Karin Krolikowski in second. Also taking first place were Andrea Grief in the 100, 200 and Gigi Giordano in the long jump. The women's dual season record ends at 1-3. Satw·day, the women go to the NYSAIAW (state) meet at Albany, and the men go to the. Colgate Open. Women's softball • • • Continued from page 16 Kim Mingino. Bailey smacked a double to complete Union's offensive picture. The highlight of the week came on Monday when Union beat RPI at home 5-3. Both teams scored one run in the first inning, both teams had eight hits total and RPI had two errm;s to Union's three. The teams played the next few in- nings scoreless and the game went fast. In the fifth inning Union scored four runs to RPI's oue run, and they held on the lead with a few outstandinl! defensive plays. Hitting well for Union were pitcher Miczek (two singles and two homeruns), shortstop Petro- (a two run triple), Patty Richards with two singles, Jeannie Haller (single and stolen base). Union played a clean game after a shakey first inning in which all three errors took place. Union only has two games left this season, both home so come watch Friday at 3:30 p.m. against Lemoyne and Saturday at 1:00 p.m. against Pace. ByUCSBC Sports Staff The Union College Stone Boat Club again made a fine showing last Saturday at Lake Taghkanfc State Park near Hudson, New York. The race was sponsored by the Union Stone Boat Club and the Hudson Valley Community College Concrete Canoe Club. Union's two concrete canoes, both of which were constructed by the club this academic year, and a team of twenty-five paddlers finished an overall second for the day, with many fine in· dividual shoWings. First place was earned by Elissa Adler and Katja Bock in the women's finals. Union had a rash of second place finishes, including Dan O'Neill and John Bensley in the men's race, Professors Tom Jewell and Frank Griggs in the faculty race, and John DeMis and Julie Stone in the mixed doubles. The afternoon events included a grueling 1.6 mile long- distance relay, in which the Union team of O'Neill, Bensley, Jeff Doolittle and Tim Lowry Ruaby ••• ContinueNom page 16 Lose to Buffalo St. From here the A squad moved to its fourth game of the day, to the semi-firial of the -con- solation round. Tired and beat up, the Club put in an ex- traordinary effort in the first half against Buffalo State. Looking the best it has all season, the Garnet pressured its opponents the whole time, only to be repealed by time running out and the ball deep in Buffalo territory. The second half was a little bit .of a different story though. Exhausted from playing three and a half games lUlder the strong sun, Union ran out of steam. Aided by a few questionable calls by the ref, Buffalo, which had only played two games prior to Union, rallied for two tries to put the game away. The Garnet lo•st the game 10·0, but surviving the day of rugby was success in PANEl QISCUSSION FOR SENIORS 11 HOW TO SUR.VIVE AFTER UNION'' Tuesday, May, 8th 7pm Banquet Room- Carnegie Hall took second place. The last event of the day was a mixed medley which was open to students, faculty, alumni, and any other willing .participants. The event included a \switch which means that at a given spot in the race, the two pad- dlers in the craft must stand up and switch their respectlve positions. Hudson Valley Community College took an overall first place victory for the day with their lightweight boat design. However, they ran into problems with the strength of their boat in the final event. During the switch, when both crew members were near the center of the boat, the hull cracked and the boat folded over itself lengthwise and sank, giving its riders a taste of the chilly waters of Lake Taghkanic. Clarkson University finished an overall third with their ex- tremely heavy version of the stone boat, which weighed in at 275 pounds. Norwich University arrived with a boat which did not meet flotation requirements. The boat's itself. B-Side· Splits· The Killer Bs split the day with one victory and one loss. In its opening game, the B squad defeated Niagara by a dif- ference of 13-9. From the foot of Matt Schambers, the Garnet kicked itself to victory by making good three penalty boots. With'the score locked at nine apiece, Union needed another score, for according to tournament rules the game would have been awarded to Niagara unless Union could break the deadlot::k. Knowing what it had to d(), the Garnet serum surged the ball towards problems were corrected, it was thought, in time for the af- ternoon races, hut only raced in one leg of the long-distance relay before succumbing to the elements. The day was marked with sunny, 70-degree weather and a calm lake. Many thanks to WRUC Record Hop for providing the sound system and music, Hudson Valley's food service for a fine chicken barbeque, and tbe many stone boat fans and alumni who were there to cheer the teanns on. Thanks also to the judges and timers from the American Concrete Institute and the American Society of Civil Engineers. Next in line for the Stone Boaters is a race this weekend at New Jersey Institute o£ · Technology. Union is also looking toward next year and · building two more boats with an even better concrete rnix. The Stone Boat Club welcomes new members, and guarantees to each of its members good technical experience and great times. its opponent's try-line. Late in the second half, serum-half J efi · Wilson sprang out with the ball and gave his team the extra score it needed to ensure vic- tory. In their second game, the Killer Bs faced the top ceded squad . from Brockport State. Here the ruggers dropped a disappointing 16-o loss which knocked them out of the tour- nament. Wednesday the RFC played the Engineers of RPI. This upcoming Saturday the Club will be playing Si~ma on library field at 3:30. It is important to note that Siena ended up win- ning the Senior Men's College bracket in this past weekend's tournament. IA.IY\~l~A·~ IAt~ CieeO~rff>MPOR I U:M FREE 32 oz. SODA With Purchase of Any 8-12-or 24Cut Pizza or Any Order of $4.50 or More C~>lfer Goodthru Septeri'lbt!r 30) 109 Canal Square, Broadway, Sch·d· Phone: 374-4332 , . • J~ ~· ~ ~ >- _Q 0 +- 0 ;C Q_ ,_.;, ~ >- .0 -2 0 .r::. c. . • • , tl g v fi v si 0' ltJ s, \ w: UI Til Sc co WE fm Ur we . an ru po: ceJ ( 1 tea ~0 rec by Ha 'I

; 1- a::: >- ..0 .E 0 .c a. CONf'ORDIENSIS, May 3, /984 _ Page 15 . .. . bow to Ephs, Cont~ntals -.Scott Wykoff ' . 'On sp~_rtS · New took-for Alumni Gym Tough Weekend FQr Dutchmen Lax ByG.M. Sports Staff The Men's Varsity Lacrosse team dropped both of their games this week on the road at Williams and Hatnilton. In the first game, the Ephmen from Williams played with con- sisten<:y and were able to overpower the D11tchmen 8-4. ~ The game was a close matchup but too many mental mistakes caused Union to fall behind. Once trailing, the Dutchmen w~r~ never able to challenge Williams,for the lead again. The first q:uarter ended in a scoreless tie as both teams played well defensively. By. the end of the first half, the Dut· clunen were behind 4-1. Union's Men's lacrosse is struggling this spring at 3-8 going into Saturday's 1 p.m.~contest on the Astroturf. . - only goal in the first half was scored by senior co-captain Chris DaVis. Witb6: 25left in the first half, Davis took the ball out in front of the net, swept left and scored on a crisp bounce shot with Andy Larkin screening the goaltender. Second half scoring for the Dutchmen included a third quarter goal by Will Piersol. The unassisted tally came with 10:15 gone in that period and the score then stood at 7·2. Union bad a stronger fourth quarter, but were not able to ~vercome the Ephmen lead, Two fourtl.l -quarter goals . came· from Juniors Mark Ehudih .and Sam Murray. Ben Maynard continued to play well stopping 24 shots. Union's next game saw them lose convincingly to the Hamilton Continentals 16·2. The team was missing several players due to ·injury and they appeared weak against the Continentals. The Dutchmen never got play generated and were totally outplayed. Union's ()nly goals of the game came from Andy Ross on a nice pass .from Mark Eh11din in the first quarter and Jim Ilney from Eric Kaye in the final quarter. 'l'he only bright spot of the game was freshman Jay Grossman's first collegiate $tart in the net for the Dutchmen. He playe.d· ' well, stopping 15 shots. Women's Rugby Club.Scoreless BySPORTSSTAFF This past weekend, the UC. WRFC played two games in the Upstate Rugby Union's Annual Tournament at Collins Park, Scotia. Despite tlie poor playing conditions, the lady ruggers were satisfied with their per- formance. In 'the first game, Union pfaye.d the Albany women, a team of superior skill · and weight. Although the Union ruggers never ·- gained possession l>f the ball, they certainly did brush up on their tackling skillS. Notable per- formances included sophomore Wing Forward Kathy Hawkes' illegal trip, junior Chick Megan Lutzker's amazing barging on line-outs, and junior Wing Forward Janette Carron's tackle; Union played a very clean game so as not to anger the Albany women. When all told, the Alb~y women thun· dered to a 60-0 victory. In the second game, a bat· tered Union team entered the field .of play against a tough Potsdam team. This match was Golfers Finally Compete By VINSCULLY SportsS~f and Tim Diemoz (83) was the lowest total in the past four golf seasons for Union. The Union College Mens Golf team defeated. Utica College Union traveled to Williams t\fonday, 402-424, to up th.eir College to play Taconic Golf record to 3-2. The team was led Club in a tri·match between by Mike Rozzi(77), and Charlie Union, Williams and American Hauser (79). International ·College. In its The team got the season off to first match on a new course the a good start downing Skidmore ~team played poorly. It 420-442; and Middlebury 289-420. 1 struggled to a 440 and a third The 289 total compiled by Rozzi place finish. Today the team (71), Chris Hutchins (78), travels to Hartwick for a dual much better suited to the Union women who held the score to a 16..0 loss. After realizing that all teams were not the caliber of the Albany team, the Union ruggers played an aggressive game. The Union serum worked well together with fine, hooking by freshman Gretchen Becker. Two fries were ahnost scored with an impressive run downfield by junior co-captain Sarah Andrews that was ended by an illegal and brutal high tackle, while junior co-.captain Joyce Harrington's valient struggle into the try zone was not awarded due to the confused muddle that went down with her. Other notable per- forman(,!es included junior Allison Barry's and sophomore- outside center Chris Siler's fine loose baUplay. _ . The UCWRFC would like to extend their thanks to Coach Dr. Dave Benz~ger and to the Union Men's Rugby team for all their support and help. The lady ruggers' next game will be played Sunday, May 6th at 1:00 p.m. on Library Field against William Smith College. Come out and cheer on the Union Ruggers. Hauser (79}, Tom Ryan (81) ·match. ----------------------------------------------------------------------- Women's lax ..• Continued from page 16 either team always within two goals .of the other. Until 15 · minutes were left in the game, when the score was 10-10, the game could have gone either way. At, this point, · Oneonta scored two goals, and the Dutcbwomen were tmable to come back. Washburn had an excellent game on_\ defense. Washburn has played con• sistently well_this season; she is essential to the defensive unit, .. as well as an offensive threat. Rushforth led the scoring with an astounding six goals. Rush· forth is one of the leading scorers on the' team. Even though Union lost, the team played one of their best games of the season, as they passed well and played a smart team grume. . Although the JV squad bas not , had the most successful season, these women deserve recognition. This team has worked hard throughout the season, always keeping an optimistic attitude. The out\ come of their games is not necessarily reflective of their performance. or their ability. The laxwomen wind down their season this week. The team now stands at 6-6, and hope to finish up with a winning season in their final game against Hartwick. ·Come sup- port. them on Monday at 3:301 . ' . \. Recreation and sports have played an important role in. our society for deca.tles. Jim Fixx got the nation to lace up their sneakers and go out for a job in the late 70's~ More recently, Jane Fonda has convinced the country that a twenty minute workout a day will keep the family doctor away. Lifetime sports and recreational in- volvement have become a major priority throughout the country and Union College has decided to make sure this liberal arts institution's role in this area will be an active one. If an goes smoothly, While the class of '85 is searching for jobs next spring, workmen will be getting started on the major task of renovating the college's Alumni Gym. A committee of assorted administrators, faculty, coaches and Students got together earlier this year to formulate a plan for renovating the athletic stiVcture built in 1912. The Board of Trustees was presented with the diversified committee's repor.t and now the job of choosing an architect is the task. A man that has had a great deal of experience with projects similar to what's planned for Alumni Gym is Athletic Director Dick Sakala. Prior to coming to Schenectady, Sakala coordinated the process of creating an impressive athletic and recreational center at Colum~~~ :Untversity, Sakala is excited about what the -renovations will mean to the college. He is quick to point out that the Alumni Gym renovations will serve the needs of the entire campus com· munity. Sakala took time out earlier in the week to describe the proposed renovations to this reporter. The concept revolves around gutting the structure from ground level up. The basement level will be packed full of lockers for all members of the campus community. Extensive facilities with all sorts of dif. ferent types of weights and exercise equipment will he incorporated into the structure. What now serves as the actual gym will be turned into an open recreational area. A splendid new pool with seating capacity has be proposed to be put where the small parklng lot now exists between Alumni and the library. Lounges, a classroom, and offices will also be located in the renovated building. Plans for squash and racquet ball courts have 'been proposed but the exact number and location still must be decided. Sakala looks to the renovated Alumni Gym to provide the school with, ''A bright, clean pla~e people will feel good about coming to.\ The Alumni Gym renovations will be the sixth in the schools plan for seven in the schools athletic and recreational plant. Prior projects have resulted in Achilles Rink, the astro turf field (which still needs a name), the all weather trac}{, new soccer field and the aU purpose floor for the fieldhouse. The school hopes to one day upgrade the bleachers and .press box at the astro turf complex. Sakata remembers what an impact the new facllity at Columbia had on the everyday life of students, faculty, and athletes. These plans have given him a glow in his eye that is usually reserved for a young child on Christmas eve. Movin' on Over: Chris LoBello ventured to New York State two years ago to fill an opening in the Union College Athletic Training Department. The petite U.Mass graduate learned of her appointment only days prior to the three weeks known as p~season. Lobello quickly became a favorite of fall athletes and in her rookie campaign she seemed to leave a lasting impression on all the Dutchman athletes she came in contact with. WeU.late last week Head Trainer Tom Fashouer was informed ofsorne bad news and some good news. First the bad news. Chris LoBello, at the end of May will leave Schenectady for the confines of Amherst College. The good news is the Amherst job is somethinl{. that Lobello has always hoped for since her graduation from UMass in 1979. Lobello is a native of nearby Northhampton and did her student training in the Amherst College Athletic Department. It goes without saying that Chris · Lobello will be missed when another athletic calendar opens in August. The Dutchmen's l()ss will be the Lord Jeffs' gain. . . . to compete in Nationals Crew Places· Third , ByE.W.HARRIS Clear skies,ocahn water and • warm sunshine Welcomed the first crew race on the Mohawk in over a hundred years. Present were the University of Rochester, Canisius College, Hobart, and the Union Rowing Association. Both Canisius and Rochester brought their professionally trained crews and sleek, new boats, and took first and second respectively. Union's third place finish was quite respectable for a team which has been training together for two weeks and has ·somewhat less than state of the art equipment. Under the leadership of founder John Ciovacco, the men's first eight defeated Hobart's eight, who have been together since last spring, and the men's four defeated the Rochester four man shell. All of Union's shells, two men's eights, a women's eight, a men's four and a women's four performed out· standingly for a team which has been together two short weeks. Union's outstanding per· fonnance on Saturday qualified them for the nationals next weekend· in Philadelphia. With two more weeks of intensive training and early morning practices, Union shoUld per- form well in this most collegiate of sports. . . . Support Union S~orts ·

Page /6 SPORTS .... record at 7-6 CONCORD/EN SIS •. May 3. 1984 DUTC:HMEN SPORTSWE.EK May3-l0 Busy Weekend For Gamet Nine Thursday 5/3 Gol.f·-at Hartwick, l.p.m. Fridav514 Baseball--vs. Rochester, 3 p.m., Central Park Softbalk··vs. L~Moyne, 3:Jo·p.:rn,, Library Fie.id Tennis--a,t BinghamtQn, 3p.m. 1-- Q: > .0 ByTWEIS Sport$ Staff The Union Baseball team just finished playing eleven games in seven days. Union started the stretch well with a victory over Colgate 7-1. Nat Harris went the distance for his third win of the season. Joe Wood collected two hits including a double and a home run. Union then crushed Hamilton 27-6 on Friday giving Steve Alves his first complete game victory for Union. Four players had home runs, Pete Cohan, Joe Wood, John Moretti and Alex Rita had. a big blast with a Grand Slam. Unionwent.on the road for the 0 0 ~ .t::. . \ '•I ~~(~~'··'\:J4..\',)-4~ 0. Dutchman speedster Reinhard Walker takes a swing in baseball action at Central Park. Union trounced Ham Hton26·6. Softball Defeats Siena, RPI ByGOOTS Sports Staff The Women's Softball Team won two out of three games this week bringing their record to 3- 5. Thursday the Union women hosted Siena, a team that had previously beaten Union in their first game of the season 9-5. If the Siena team thought they were going to walk all . over Union they were mistaken. Although Siena won 6-4, Union was ahead 3-6 until the top of the fifth when Siena scored four runs. In the top of the seventh, Siena scored two runs and even though Union made a good effort to overcome the lead they . only scored one run and fell Short of a victory. The Union women played well, they had ten hits to Siena's 11 and each team had only two errors. Barb Bailey lead the team in hitting going 4-4 with all singles, pit- cher Angie Miczek had a single and a double, Lyle Meader and Jeannie Hatler slammed a double apiece and Peg Petro and Patty Richards each had a single. Union also had stolen bases credited to Patty Richards two, Bailey two, Miczek one, Peg Petro one, and Unda Gutin one. All in all, Union look~d sharp defensively and their batting was strong, but they had a little trouble capitalizing on their baserunners. On Saturday, the Dut- chwomen travelled to Hamilton and even though the ·distance. was tiring it was w~ll worth it. Unhampered by the plungeant breeze which carried the smell of the surrounding cow pastures on to the playing field, pitcher Miczek led the team to a 20-0 shutout. Union's big inning was the second when they scored seventeen runs. The Hamilton pitchers combined walked a total of nineteen batters, eleven coming in the second inning. Offensively, Union had thirteen hits and only two errors defensively. Pitcher Miczek gave up only three walks and had three singles, and a slew of other players added a single a- piece including Melissa Viglielmo, Robin Werner, Gutin, Patty Richards, Petro, Continued on page 14 ... face Alumni SGt. Women's Lax, 6-5 ByC.G. Sports Staff The Dutchwomen may have ctropped two games on the road, but they know how to please the crowds at home. Last 11mr- sday, the laxwomen beat an aggressive, yet unskilled Russell Sage squad, 16-3. Unfortunately, they dropped two disappointing games, to Hamilton and Oneonta State. The Dutchwomen have had a difficult time adjusting to the enormous difference in the skill of their opponents, as they have won games by as great a score as those that they have lost. • Jackie Tario led the team's scoring against Russell Sage, with five goals. Lorna Rush· forth tallied four times, and Bonnie Faulkner . three. Although the Russell S~ge squad is not a great challenge for Union, the laxwomen used this game to work on skills and teamwork. Awaygames have continually posed problems for Union this season. On Saturday, Hamilton clearly overpowered the game. Despite the loss, Tario, Rush- forth, Faulkner, Cheryl Wash- burn, and Kathy Furst were able to notch goals against the Continentals. The Oneonta State game was probably the most evenly matched game of the season. The Dutchwomen played ~P to their potential, and, un- fortunately, had a fi:ve minute span which proved to be costly, as they dropped the game 16-12. Both teams kept the score fairly even through inost.of the game; Continued on page 15 weekend and split two doubleheaders. On Saturday Union traveled to Middlebury. Union 'lost the first game of the twinbill 8-3 after falling behind early. The Dutchmen 'bats never got.going despite Rita and Dan Connolly's two hits. In the second game, Union beat Middlebury W behind the two hit shutout pitching of Wood. Wood also provided the big hit VVith a two run .single in the third. Union finished their Vermont swing in Norwich where, after dropping the first game of the doubleheader 7-3, they rebounded to pummel Norwich lB-10 to gain the split. Connolly picked up his first win for Union with a strong relief .performance. Rita and Adam Ross.rnan led the attack with three hits apiece. Rossman also played .a fine defensive game behind the plate~ The Dutclunen returned home and faced St. Lawrence in another doubleheader on Monday. Again Union lost the opening game by a score of 8-3 despite Rita!.'S three hits. In the second game, Alves got his second victory of the season leading the Dutchmen to an 11.;3 win. Alves had a no-hitter almost six full innings. Union bats were led once again by Rita's two hits and three RBI'S and Reinhard Walker's two RBI'S. Union ended its busy week on a sour note as they dropped a 9-6 decision to Albany State. The Dutchmen beat themselves by committing six errors and mustering only six hits. Harris pitched well in relief giving up only one hit and striking out four but, it was not enough as a late Union rally fell sllort. Union is home this Friday and Saturday afternoon vs. Rochester and Hobart respectively. Women's Track:·NYSAIAWat Albany St., 2:p.m. Satvrday, 5/5 - Par•nts' Weekend Action ! Men's L.acrosse--vs. Colgate, 1 p.m., iurf . Baseball Doublehea(ler·:vs. Hobart, 1 p, m., Central p,ark Softball--vs. Pace, 1 p.m., Library Field Rugby··vs. Upstate Champs Siena.,3:.30 p.m., Library Field Women's Lacrosse--vs .. Alumni,4 .p,.r.n., Turf Women'sTrack--NYSAIAW C!f Albany St., noon Men's Trac.k--at ColgatEHnvy:, noon Mondavs/7 women's Lacrosse--vs. HartWit:k A&. B, 3:30p.m., \furf Tuesday 5/8 Baseball-·atHartwick, 3·p.m. Tennis,· at Middlebu.ry, 3p.m. -. GARNET SCORe;BOAR'D- BASEBAI-L {7'-6) Union 7 Uh.ion 26 Middleb.ury 7 Union 4 N'orwich 7 Union 18 St. Law.rence 8 Union H Albany St.9 Williams a Hamilton 12 Siena 11 Union 16 Hamilton 23 Oneonta 16 Oneon1a 6 Siena 6 Union 20 Uni.on 5 Union 5 Col gates Plattsburgh St. 10 Utlion 28 Union 13 Buffalo St. 10 Union 420 Union 389 Williams 397 A. I. C. 411 Union 442 MEN'S LACROSSE (3-SJ WOMEN'S LACROSSE (6·5) SOFTBALL (3·5) TE NN IS (2•4). RUGBY (4c4) WOMEN'S TRACK ( l-3) MEN'S TRACK (4·4) GOLF (3·2) ~olgate~ Hamilton6 Union 2 Middlebury o lJnion4 Norwich. TO Union3 St. Lawrence 3 Union 6 , Union 4 Union 2 Union 4 Russell Sage 3 Union6 Union 12 Union o Union 4 Hamilton o RPI3 Siena4 Uni6n4 Union 4 Hamiltono Albany St. 4 Union o . Skidmore 443 Middlebury 422 Union 436 Union 436 Utica429 . . . four games in one day Ruggers Split In Ups tote T ourn. ByUCRFC SportsStaH The Rugby Club participated in the Upstate Rugby Tour- nament held at Collins Park in Scotia this past weekend and both Union sides made quite respectable showings. The A team made it to the semi-final of the consolation round in the senior men's college bracket while the Killer B's went to the quarterfinals in their respective tournament. The A team opened the tournament Saturday morning with a nine o'clock game against Plattsburg State, and it appeared that the hour was too early for the Garnet to handle. By the time Union woke up the final buzzer was sounding and the squad was UpSet by a score of 10-4. Tim Riley brought one of the few bright spots to the Union performance late in the second half when he brought a Platt- sburg kick back 75 yards for a Gamet try. There were a couple of other close calls. In the first half, co-captain Steve Cole pounced on the ball behind the Plattsburg try-line; however, possession was not recognized and the try was not awarded. Later in the closing minutes of the game, Union was on the drive deep in their opponent's territory only to have time expire with the ball within five meters of a second Garnet try. Garnet In Consolation Bracket Union then dropped into the consolation bracket where it easily won its first two games. The first victory of the day came against a team the Gamet always enjoys playing, Hamilton College. Here the ruggers walked to an easy 28-0 victory. Keeping in mind that all these games were half the length of the usual eighty- minute game, scoring 28 points is quite a feat. The Gamet machine was scoring at will. Tries came from the following: Cole, Riley, Tom Gengo, John Wilber, and Steve Testo, who put down two. Ed Hart con- verted two of the tries to cap off the successful game. Dump Great Danes The second victory came in the next game which was against Albany State. Again Union generally dominated play as it rolled to a 13-4: victory. Scoring tries for the Garnet in this game were Meade Sum- mers off a pass from Hart, and Rob Israel after a pass from co- /'captain Doug Baumgarten. Summers converted one of the · tries and later split the uprights with a penalty-kick-for-goal. Albany did score one try just as time ran out at the end of the game. Continued on page 14 ,, _\ t ~- ?i 't The Union College Rugby FootbaH Club competer;l In the prestigious l)pstate Rugby Tournament thiS past weekend posting a 2-2 record with wins over Hamilton and Albany state. :::: 'i: !... <ll :?: .... ro !1. > .0 ·0 - 0 J:: 0. <I) ro Cl .!:: u QJ c: .!:: a. ro 0 > .0 .E 0 .!:: a. j ( t \' j t t J: (] t ~ IJ f s I ( f' a f, I: - - \ p k S1 D k b c: - '- c A tl 0 s 1\ a lE t1 t] 'I d s q \II lE \11 r,

PARENTS' WEEKEND 1984 Page A

PARENTS' WEf..\'KEND 1984 Page A ' '' i: : !

PageB PA RENJ:'i' WEEK END 1911-1 PARENTS' WEEKE~NfrD~AuuTtcr~Ion-N· =====at===============. 12:30 p.m. Saturday, 5 May 1984 B' Chester Arthur Statue R . . ' N ·in ca.\l' of rain--on th~ !!h•p!> nf lhl· Chapt'l Proceeds from the Auction will be used to support the Union College Child Care Center Fa,·u/t • Senices or Auction Auc·tioneer: Byron Nic:ho .i, A.\',\'O£'tute Prof. of Politkal Sci. l. Brad Lewis, Assistant Professor or Economics, offers one hour of \financial consulting from a slightly biased \Chicago School\ graduate (Ph.D.; Economics, 1982) with Industrial background (General Electric, 1969-75) and a Certificate in Manage- ment Accounting. He will warrant the effort but not market results!! Consulting may take place at his plushly carpeted and meticulously cared for office or In an expense account type restaurant, such as Peter Pause (Dutch Trea.t), whichever suits the convenience of the bidder. · 2. Jack and Susan Upton, Assistant Professor of Psychology, offer a 'Mexlcan- Califomia brunch for two at their home replete with Callfornla beach music. 3. Bill (Take No Prisoners) Daniels, Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies and Professor of Political Science, offers foor hours of Karate and self-defense Instruction for 2 to 6 persons. He has studied in Shorin-Ryu Karate for ten years and holds a blue belt. 4. George Gmelch, Associate Professor of Anthropology, offers two hours of batting Instruction to an Intra-mural. softball team or any Interested Individual. He Is a former professional baseball player and clean-up hitter in the Detroit Tiger · organization (AA ball). 5. Suzie Benack, Assistant Professor of Psychology, offers a .morning of bread- baking lessons for 2-3 persons, fo.llowed by a brunch of breads, jams and tea. The lessons will be on the preparation of yeast breads, quick breads,. and muffins. 6. Bill Zwicker, Associate Professor of Mathematics, and Cathy Brodie (both ciQSet gourrilet chefs) offer a champagne brunch for two. 7. Janet Anderson, Associate Professor of Chemistry, offers for auction one gourmet picnic basket for enjoyment In Jackson's Garden or similar enjoyable setting. 8. Tom D'Andrea, Vice President of Academic Affairs, offers four one hour drum lessons, V. P. D'And1ca is a talented jazz drummer and has made a guest ap:- pearance with the Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra. 9. The Zeta Beta Tau fraternity offer one morning of general labor by three brothers. They would be available for yard work, painting, toting b!Jrges and .lifting bales. ·10. Steve Sargent, Assistant Professor of History, offers to type and proofread ooe ten page pa~r and g-uarantees H to be typographically error free. ll. Joe and Marilyn Mammola, Dean of Students, offer a romantic candle-lite dinner for two on a h1111 of the century verandah. 12. Joanne Tol>iessen, Director of the Career Placement Center, offer& two llours of mid-career change counseling. This service would be .a personalized follow-· up to Sunday's workshop. 13. George Vfilliams, Associate Professor and Co-Chairperson of the Computer Science Dept., offers two sessions of professional advice on how to purchase and flow to Install the ideal home computer system. 14. Marc and Judy Dawson, Assistant Professor of History, offer for 6 to 8 ap- propriately aged individuals an evening of wlne-tastlng with refreshments. 15. Bob and Cary Massa, Assistant Dean of Students, offer a home-made (like Mama used to make it) lasagna dinner for four. Successful bidders wUI please pay at the barbecue booth and should contact the above individuals to arrange a mutually convenient time. The proceeds of the auc- tion wHI go to the Union College Care Cet)ter. Fireside Pizzeria Inc. Sandwich Pub Lounge ***· Welcome Parents *** A rewarding • $7· ·95 ._repast. e • • • · Every Sunday, you can enjoy a delicious·champagne brunch served in the refreshing atmosphere of out , Brass Lantern Restaurant. So come and relax over,. · brunch at our Ramada - where we've got fl new; . world for you. RAMADA® INN 450 Nott St11eet,· Schenectady, NY Call for reservations (518) 370-7151. U,monCo ege Department of the Arts presents Voice and Piano Recital Saturday, May 5, 1984 Pal.\ents' Weekend .10·: 00 a.m. - ft()om 202- Arts Bldg. PROGRAM Liszt-Lie-bestraum No. a Beetb()ven-son·ata Op. 31, No. 2 inD Minpr. Largo-Allegro JILLBERCOW, Piano . Schubert-Intermezzo_Op. 90, No. 2, in E Flat Major DIANNEPAVACIC, Piano Menotti-Lullaby (from \The Consul\) Rachmaninoff-Three Russian Songs . DANI HAPHAEI.,, Soprano ~ BAR;BARA WRIGHT, Piano · Chopin-F .antasie-Impromptu Op. 66, inC Sharp Minor MARLENE \WALDMAN piano Beethoven-Sonata Op. 2, No.1, in F Major-Prestissimo SCOTT'DEXTER, Piano Bach-Chr.-omatic Fantasia and Fugue in D Minor, BWV 903 JANICE. THOMPSON, piano Welcome Union College Parents Open 7 0..,. 11:30 a.llll.•l a.m. Prf. & Scot. till 2 a.m. How much love, sex, · and friendship can a person take? 382-1616 1631 Easfern Parkway Copp. Price Chopper) it .lfJ. $] DRAGON GARDEN Chinese and American Restaurant 120 Mohawk Ave. • Scotia, N.Y. (518) 377-6637 \One of the Top 1 0 Restaurants\ 11 Without a doubt, this is the BEST CHINESE Restaurant in the.· Capital District\ Knickerbocker News 120 Mohawk Ave. Scotia They're eight old friends who·haven't seen each other since the sixties. Searching for something they've lost And finding all they n~d Is each other. Presented by the Union CQHege Film Committee 514- 516 7, 9 and 11 pm SS016 '., II I I I I I I I l

PARENTS' WEEKENO ~91Ji/ Dance Contest · ·. Ramail_a Inn • May 5, 1984 • 9 p.m.- I a.m. Jitt-erbug- Father/Daughter; Mofh·er/So.n Open-st~yle--student pairs Latin & Amer·ican ·Dances- Father/Moth;er . - I - . Trophies-to winners in all categories ·come a:nd tri~p the light-- and we D·O mean -FANTASTIC!! . ~\ \The Most Exciting New Bar • Welcome Parents • CORNELL'S 1733 VanVranken Ave. 346-6022 -Weekend Specials- Linguine Pescatore- $8.95 Veal Parmiaiana- $7.25 PqgeC PHONES: 372-7270 370-3735 COR. UNION STREET 8c VAN •NTWERP RD. SCHENECTADY. N.Y. FEATURING ORDERS TO TAKE OUT . . ~c_O~~ in Do~towa Schenectady\. · ~ 1 ~~~ · Happy Hour Everyday oP. OF P1UII[I l'.IB PURV~'t .t POTAJILI! SPIJ>.ITS 4-7 p.m .• Free Hors D 'oeuvres ·---------·Redeem for:·----------, I . t : 1 Free Cocktail .: ; pe-r person wi.th dinner· l I . I : with Student I D : ---MfiNRl\!{t\ffr'i __ _ iE~~IH~~~~ 605 Union Street · ~The Dutch Hollow Pu~ '11) Dutch lfollow Pub will be open for 'U} three seatings on Saturday night for Dutchman's Night The seatings will be 5, 6, & 7 p.m. Reservations for Sat. nights will be te~ken at the Dutch Hollow Pub or call x6051 Reserve~tions end Friday at noon Still featuring 480 andCreek Rd Colonie, NY 12205 *** Welcome ,Parents *** Reservations Are Required To Participate! Dutchman's Night is avai-lable to 19-mea.l plan holders twice a month and to 14- and 10- meal plan holders once a month. Don't forget!! Make reservations e~rly, bring your meal card and LD. and prepare to enjoy yourself! You don't have to feel left out if you're not on a meal plan. We'll gladly accept cash reservations, too, . STEAK & SEAFOOD r-·wiNGWArrorr·· i I ~-,~~ @?~· I •. ~~· · .. ~l.~~ .. ~. 827 McClellan Street . I I ~...;>- ·~~- · - Schen~ctady I B11jfulo .Style Chicken Wings our specialty . . ' I I WELCOMEUNIONCOLLEGEPARENTS ·II ·~ SPECIAL · Treat your parents to 50 wings . lunch or a snack! 3 p~tato fries I 393 a 0164 . lliter~ocla L · $9.44 . tax • savings of $2.50 . . Good Friday 4th,5 p.m.- May 6th, 5 p.m. - plus Our New Creole Menu DINNER Mon.Cbru Thurs. 5 p.m. 'tD 10 p.m. Fri. & Sat. 5 p.m. 'til 11 p.m. Sun. 4 p.m. to ' p.m,. Coruer Eastern Parkway and Mc.CleUan Street, Schenectady m. W. Wagoner, Your Host Ph. 393-2186

Page lJ 5-7 p.m~-- Parents' Registration, Lobby Carnegie Hall 5-11 p.m.--Library op~n to visitors 6 p.m.--Dinner, Kosher Kitchen, W ~st College 7, 9, & 11 p.m.--Film, \The Big C\ill SS016 B p.m ... -An Evening of M* A *S*H, with author David Reiss presenting the exclusive inside story of TV's most . popubu' show, Memorial Chapel 8 p.m.--Mountebanks, Student.;produeed play, . Nott Memorial · · 8:30 p.m.--Coffeehouse entertainment, Cabaret Room, Carnegie Hall . · 10 p~m.:.-Circle K Square.Dance,:Library -Plaza. ••• - • L • \< ·- • . . 9 ILm.-1 p.m.--Parents' Registration: Meet Student Atlairs Staff and enjoy cot1ee and donuts, Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall 9-11 a.m.--Security and-Safety Department Open House: View the operation of the Union Security Control Center. Staff wiD be on hand to explain services and answer questions, Campus Operations Center . . i 9i -9-~;~popn:~~A.rt .Exhibition:_, Aar.on . Sisken, artist4n- .· i residence and .~tuftents' ·art, workj Kruesi. ,and adjacent. galleries. Arts Building. 9:15-10:45 a.m.--Parents' Committee Meeting, Lower Lounge, Hale House 10-11 a.m.--Student Piano and Voice Recital, Arts 202 JOa.m.-1:15 p.m.--\A Union of People\ and \Hightights from the 1983 Dutchmen Football Season~': A con· tinuous alternating showing of twcO exciting films, Banquet Room, Carnegie Han (Repeated from 5~8 p.m.) 10 a.m.-5 p.m.--Campus store open. Nott Memorial ' .11 a.m.--Prize Day Awards Ceremony, Memorial Chapel 11 ttm.-2 p.m..-nBiology Club Open House and Ex- position--SSl 03 and SS105 11:30 a.m.--Jewish Student Union Reception, with Professor Stephen Berk speaking on \Soviet Jewry~­ Calling for God and People,\ Strauss Lounge, .Carnegie HaD . . 11:30 ILnt.-1:30 p.m.--Benefit Bar-B·Q lunch for Union Day Care, Chester Arthur Statue _, Noon-2 p.m.--Photo Oub Exhibition/Contest, Nott Memorial 12:30-p.m.-· Auction to benefit Union Day Care, Chester Arthur Statue . 12:30 p.m.--Concert Band, Library Plaza 1 p.tn.- .. Dutch Pipers, Union's twelve-voice male singing group, Memorial Chapel steps 1-5 p.m.--Late Nite Bites dessert cafe, Cabaret Room, Carnegie HaD 1:30-2:30 p.m.-·''OpPortunities _for International Education at ~Uni,on,~' ai panel discussion with President Morris presiding, Memoriai·Chapel 2-4 p~m.--Open bouse and reception for alumni and families, Alumni Office, Lamont House. 2:30-3:30 p.m.--Class sessions in academic disciplines (refer to schedule available at registration) 2:45-3:45 p.m.--Dance Club and Arts Club present \Arts Festival '84,\ Memorial Chapel, Reception following, Strauss Lounge, Carnegie · 3:30-4:30 p.m.--Speciallnterest ~essions: . • Financial Aid'lnfortnation Ses~ion, SS016 • Freshman Preceptorial Class; Strauss. Loong~, , Carnegie Hall --- • The Personal Computer and Students in the 1980's, 110 Steinmetz HaD • \Student and Faculty Research, Technology, and the ; ·: · · Library of the '80's,\ Librar)r Music Room I .. . 4-5:30 p.m.-- President's Reception for parents, students, ~I faculty and staff, with the Union Jazz Ensemble,. Jackson's G;Jrden (Alternate-Hale House) I ' . 4:30-5:3(! p.m.--Career De-velopment Center Open House--Meet ·CDC counselors, tour career library, 'View \Marketing the Liberal Arts'' vide~tape, Career and Counseling Center Building · · 4:30 ·p.m.--Christian Fellowship Bible Study, Fourth Floor ·Lounge, Carnegie HaD ' \ L I L p S:

5-8 p.m.-'r.A Union ofPeople'; and \Highlights fr'olll the 1983 __ Dutchmen Foot-hall Season,\ a· coatinu()tts . alternating showing, Banquet Room, Carnegie llall . ' ' .$, 6, &t 7 P•IIL··Dutchmen.~s· Night, ·Dutch Hollow Pub Restaurant, three seatings, reservations require4, 370- 6051. 7 p.m. ... Mountebanks, Student-produced play, NCltt Memorial · 9 a.m.--Early morning jog, meet in front of Cllester Arthur Statue 9 a.m.-noon- ... Art Exhibition: Aaron Sisken, artist-in- residence, and student art work, Kruesi and adjacent galleries, Arts Buildinl! · 10 a.m.--Christian Sunday worship,. Memorial Cbapel 10u~~-J:30p.m.--Family br~nch, We~t ~l_ling·IIa~., ~ .. ~ . ·,' . ,. .\ . - ' - -· 11 a.m.--Christian Commuility Reception, Hale H()11se . Prize Day Awards Cerem~fY Saturday, 11 a.m., Memorial Chapel Panel Discussion \Opportunities fo_r lntematio,nal · Education at Union'' President Morris presiding . Saturday, 1:30-2:30 p.m., Memorial ChaJ)el · J ·PageE 7. 9. & J·Jp· m.-Film \The· Big Chill\ SS016 ' ' . ' ·. . ' 8 p.m.--Union College Men's and Women's Glee Oabs, Memorial Chapel 8 & JO p.IIL .... Student Cabaret Show, Cabaret Room, . Carnegie Hall · 9 p.in.-1 a.m.-Dance Concert featuring. the Ron PaRh· Lou Petty Orchestra, Ramada Inn, Nott Street (pur- . chase tickets in Carnegie Hall--$2.00) 11 a.m.-1:30 p.m.-Jewish Student Union bmnch, Kosher Kitchen, West CoDege . , Noon--Parent-Child Dynamics during th~ CoDege Years, Discussion with the Women's Support Group, Carnegie, 4th floor louJtge Noon-1 p.m. --Parent Workshop: \Opportunities for ~l\~~¥e~r, Gltanges,, presented by Joanne>Tobiessen, DireetOI', Career:Developmenf 1 Center, SS113: · '\ · '~.~ · · Noon- I p.m.--Student Chamber Music Recital, Arts 202 President's Reception for Parents, Students, Faculty and Staff Sat~rday 4-5:30 p.m. With the Union Jazz Ensemble Jackson's Garden (Alt.--Hale House) - Danct:!Concert Featuring the ~on Parch-Lou Petty Orchestra Saturday, 9 p.m.-1 a.m. · Ramada Inn, Nott Street Athldictvcnts~· ~~~~~~-~·· ~ Baseball: Union vs. Rochester · Central Park, 3:00p.m. - Women's Softball:. Union vs. LeMoyne Library Field, 3:30p.m. · SATURDAY Baseball: Union -vs. Hobart Central Park, 1 p.m. Lacrosse: Union vs. Colgate Astroturf, 1 ·p.m. Women's SojtiJa/1: Union vs .. Pace Library Field, 1 p.m. Women's Lacrosse: Union vs. Alumni Astroturfj 4 p_.m. Rugby: Union -vs. Siena Library Field~ 3:30 p.m. Alumni Gym and Union Field House open noon-9 p.m. Saturday and Sunday. Athletic equipment available through Intramural Office, Alumni Gym. Advance registration required. 370-6119.

.. PageF Schenectady's Guide to Good Dining . . . By RICHARD BIEGAN Editor's Note: 'lbe following article is part I of a two part article reviewing local restaurantso'rhe opinions in this article in no way reftect the sentiments of the editors or of Concordiensls. At Union we tolerate the Schenectady cultural scene, and only because we have to. We came here to leatn, not to have a good time (although at times it seems like we may be taking this sacrifice to ex- tremes). There are, however, those among us who seek out epicurean revelry, no matter how elusive it may prove to be. For the irrepressible gour- mand, Schenectady offers a few surprisingly enticing options, despite, a limited quantity of choices. . Tlle key here is ethnic: at none of the four top establish- ments will you be able to con- verse easily with the chef, because all four speak English · as a second language. Native Schenectady cuisine (is this Dutch, New England or Mohawk?) is a disappointment, with the sole exception being the chowder at The Oxbow Inn. There also seems to be a disproportionate amount of \Ristaurantes.\ A few words of caution are in order. First of all, a lot of for- mer eateries are indeed closed: Pompeii Room, Garahan's, Chez Pierre Too, and Sundays , have all gone · the way of Abercrombie- and Fitch. Also keep in mind that restaurants vary in their lev-els of con- sistency, and that it is entirely possible to have a very good meal and a very poor meal served to the same table o.f four .. Finally, remember that the ratings of the restaurants are nothing more than my personal, highly subjective reactions to the meals that I have sampled. It is quite possible that another person would have totally different experiences than the ones I have had. Constraints on time, funding, and knowledge have made it impossible to visit every restaurant in the area. I have tried to review the establish- ments that are most visible to the campus community. Restaurants are given up to four stars an dare listed in order of quality. ++++Sitar, 1929 Central Avenue (7 miles from campus). Opened just last fall, Sitar has the look of a typical Indian restaurant~ with its stucco walls and heavy red chairs. In the background is the music of the instrument that lent its name to the establishment. You are greeted at the door by a friendly member of a large . and professional staff. The at- mosphere is·comfortable, if not exactly cozy. There is atemptation to order the appetizer assortment. While this would be adequate, you can do much better by. ordering Pakova, deep fried vegetable fritters served with mint chutney, and Aloo Chat, boiled potato cubes,coated with a zesty sauce. The two will easily ap- petize a table for six. The best way to experience the full range oflndian dishes is for two or more people to share orders. The Tandoori dishes are all good, especially Boti (lamb) Kabob. The Tandoori chicken is marinated and spiced with cumin, and arrives at your table without the slightest hint of dryness. The Sheek Kabob (ground lamb) is not for everyone. Other choices include sen- sational shrimp palak, several shrimps bathed in a mild spinach sauce. One person should order Shahjani Pillao, a .well balanced pilaf of rice, chicken and almonds. Sitar offers generous combination assortments which include several dishes, mostly Tandoori style, that can probably satiate two people. Everything is served with han, a puffy Indian bread. Make sure to .save room for dessert, for therein lies the most precious jewel of all. the object of this passion is Kheer, a rice pudding filled with raisins and almonds, perlumed with car- damon, and topped with fround pistachios. Rasrilalai, ls a milky cheesecake that also utilizes pistachio and cardamon. Kulfi, a seemingly watered down mango ice cream, does not compare with the other desserts. On your way out, take a peek through a glass showcase and watch the chef cook in two authentic Tandoor ovens .. Grab a few toasted fennel seeds from near the cash register and you will have finished a meal that could qualify as excellent in any city in the U.S. (approx $35 for two, closed Mondays.) ++++ Sugi, 1579 State Street ( approx. 3 miles from AnENTION· GRADUATES Orange Motors has a CoUege Graduate Finance . Plan No Previous Credit Required Very liHie Down No Co-Maker Necesse~ry For Details & Appointment Call Orange Motors 799 C·entral Ave .. Albany, NY 12206 Ask for Joe Bruno or Vince Cristaldi 489-5414 campus). The other outstanding restaurant to open last yeal\ was Sugi of Japan. Sugi features fantastic Japa.nese ll.food prepared under the direction of Sushi Chef extraordinaire Tetsuo Abe. Sugi is small and always crowded on weekends (for good reason), so make sure to call in advance. Appetizers are excellent and diverse, from the light, crunchy Tempura, to Hijiki, seaweed simmered in soy sauce and sake. Try Yakitori, grilled chicken skewers with a Japanese barbecue sauce. Hirame Negi (not on the menu) is a mixture of raw fluke and scallions. Sashimi is excellent, and the sight of Tet' s con- struction is an added bonus. Tet makes the sushi himself at a par that beats seven people. His sushi is first-rate: pearly fill~ts of raw fish. pressed onto rice so exquisite as to reveal years of training. There is an occasional serving that is too cold, and a banal fisp cake will occasionally ·sneak onto yoilr plate, but as a general rule the sushi is well made and finely garnished. Tet makes beautiful futomaki, which is a d~zling array of fish and vegetables rolled with rice and seaweed. Ask for the ''Schenectady Roll,\ Tet's invention of crab and crab roe. A nice way to end the meal is with a temaki, a hand-held cone of seaweed and rice, plus the filling of your choice. I prefer Unagi, a salt water eel . broiled with a hearty barbecue sauce. Sugi also has a kitchen that turns out more conventionally prepared dishes. The Sukiyakis and Teriyakis are both capable of satisgying those too faint- hearted for sushi. Shabu-8habu, meat and seafood simmered in a v:at of broth, will satisfy both tastebuds and belly. Tempura can be ordered as a dinner, with soup, salad and ice cream. Sugi used to have great desserts, but the dessert che.f has left to charm palates elsewhere. Yokan is a sweet bean paste that has only novelty value, if that. Purist will order Tomago, a sweet omelette that serves as the traditional Japanese dessert. otherwise, you'd do best filling up on the glorious .. sushi and foregoing dessert.· Those at the sushi bar will usually receive Tsukidashi, edible gifts on the house. ( ap- prox $35, closed Mondays until June.) · ++++Roma Appian Way, 1839 VanVranken Avenue (less than 1 mile from campus). Walk in and suddenly you're back in Italy. Roma Appian Way is the labor of love .for two Italian immigrants: Sina, the chef, and her husband Aldo, a quiet man who serves as maitre d'hotel and the solitary waiter. The dining room is comfortable and relaxed, with -about ten tables and a fireplace. The pace is very slow, as if to give you more time to drink wine and talk. The antipasto i$ perfect; a brilliant co1mterJl()int between spicy (pepperoni), sour (mushrooms and green beans vinaigrette), sweet (honeydew melon), bitter (olives), and salty (cheese), .rounded out with delectable homemade .prosciutto and slices of that fabled Italian fruit, the avocado. At three dollars a person the dish is so good that it obscures other appetizers, such as a generous bowl of plump mussels in white sauce, or creamy fettucine. There is no menu, so Aldo will tell you what is available, and Gina will make it to perfection. (Expect each entree to cost about ten dollars, or as)t.) Veal francais is prepared delicately with just. enough lem.on. Colossal shrimp come with lingine and are drenched in a pool of garlic sauce. Reports of other chicken and veal dishes are favorable, so order with confidence and abandon. Romanowhasa wine list, and doesn't mark up more than the minimum. Almost everYthing is homemad-e, including some crusty bread. Desserts are infrequent in number' ·but when the rum cake is available, snatch it up. The pace of the meal may be a bit slow, especially if young . chill;lren are involved, but the authentic Italian cuisine is well worth it. Reservations are not required, but a good idea, especially on weekends' when all roads lead to Roma. ( approx. $40 for two; closed Mondays.) +++ Mabaralah, 2009 Central A venue ( approx. 5 miles from campus) .. Kris Pradhan is, besides being a dead ringer for Charles Bronson, an exceedingly kind and generous man. As general manager for Maharajah, he will greet you at the door, help you order, stop by periodically to make sure that everything is okay, and maybe even give you a tour of the kitchen. On one occasion he brought appetizers and desserts to my table, on the house. On two other occasions he gave us discounts, un- solicited. His friendliness and the regal atmosphere (in- cluding some finely carved paneling) make Maharajah a good place to enjoy a quiet, relaxed dinner. Maharajah's menu is very similar to the aforementioned Sitar, and in fairness it should be pointed out that a large part of Sitar's staff, including the chef, were formerly employed at Maharajah, which opened ten years earlier. There is an appetizer assortment, which will serve four, and several other choices which I unfortunately never got a chance to try. For entrees, there is an emphaSis on Tan- doori preparations, spicy dishes that are cooked on skewers in an over that resembles a cannon. Shrimp Tandoori is Ladies: Derby Day Team events · begin on May 101 Submit your team rosters to Sigma Chi '· By Friday May 4th subtly .spicy, ~nd · served witfl oni()ns and lemop. The Murgh (chicken) Tandoori is marinated in advance, becomes bright red, and is roasted to peak tenderness. Lamb Vindaloois a.spicy stew of lamb and pOtatoes. Murgh Tikka Masala, a creamy chicken .concoction, baliinc.es well with the other spicier dishes. Lamb Biryani is a deligbtful pilaf of lamb, almonds, and (as the menu claims) 21 exotic spices. No Indian meal is complete without an order of Shrimp PaJak, the stdding of shrimp and spinach. All dishes come with Nan, a fluffy bread that js similar to middle eastern pita, or its whole wheat sister called roti. There are two Indian alcoholic drinks, Which are amusingly labeled Bangal Tiger and Kamasutra. Try instead Lassi, a sweet yogurt shake. (I'm sure there is a joke here about the hair of the dog.) _ Desserts are just .passable, the best of which is Kheer, rice pudding with almonds. Make surethat you take a few to~sted green fennel seeds that wait for you near the cash· registeJ;\. (Approx. $35 for two.~ · +++ St. Martin's Cafe, 1 Mill .Lane· ( lh mile from cam- pus). If you can .find this quaint little cafe, you will be treated to a setting that is unique in Schenectady. Comfortable (one dining room actually has a couch and magazines), and romantic, St\ Martin's has sprinkled a cozy collection of trinkets on the walls. The cuisine at St. Martin's aspires to French, with some Italian, and attempts dishes that are more complex than any in the county. Unfortunately, the execution of these dishes is less than exactj but With the quality of the ingredients, and such intangibles as atmosphere, the establishment rnerrited three stars on mY single visit. An. appetizer of broccoli and caratelli arrived short on broccoli but contained m.ore than enough butter and garlic. The bread was well warmed (as the, waitress made sure to tell us), and the ·salad fresh and crispy. I ordered a chicken breast with a raspberry sauce that the menu claimed would be zesty. What ar.rived was a properly cooked piece of chicken and a cloying sauce that tasted like thickened raspberry Kool-Aid. The chicken was served over bland long-grain rice (as are most dishes), and soon the rice had completely mixed with the baneful syrup, thus rendering it inedible. A veal francais was much, much better, although a bit SPOngy. other people rave about the Veal St. Martin, and the Cordon Bleu, so my rasp- berry sauce was probably an aberration. Just the same I won't order it again. A smooth chocolate velvet, and an average cheesecake were cut long in advance, although this didn't affect the flavor very much. (Approx. $40 for two.) Late Night Snacks Fireside (see above)~pizza and miXed drinks, nice romantic setting Slicks-legendary sandwi- ches, though little else (127 S. Ferry St.) Manhattan Exchange-an- other bar, with potato skins and nachos . Carms-pizza and subs (140 Freemans Bridge Rd.)· I wolild like to thank Susan Stern, Barbara Broughton and Geoff Tyre for ,their help and .suggestions; and .especially Susan Kelly without whom this article would not have been possible. .... n T Sl s· ·P is yl cl T p is

\' ' PARENTS' Wl?lKEND 1984 Page G - Dance 'Club/ Arts Club This Saturday, May 5 at 2:45 p.m., there is only one place you should be. . . and that's at Memorial Chapel watching the Arts Festival '84. The Dance Club and Arts ·Club Will be performin-g their annual Parent's . Weekend Per- formance, and this year will outdo an other years by far! Here's a sneak preview of what's in store for you this Satl,l11day. The. dances range from modern jazz to classical ballet. The music is even more varied, such as music from Fame, Spiro Gyra, The Rolling Stones, Phil Collins, Scott Joplin, and even a touch of class with Vivaldi's Concerto in D major. In brief, the opening number is a dynamic duet which will set your heart pumping, choreographed and danced by Tricia . Allen and Tricia . Pa.squalini. \Just Because· . . . \ is a soft tranquil modem dance choreographed and danced by Susan Cohen. \Refraction'' another terrific duet, is 'a smooth sensual .piece choreographed by Michelle :Manley.. ''Time for Il'unu is a spunky and uplifting group dance which is sure to put a smile on YQur face. \In The Air\ is a fantastic and pulsating number choreographed by Susan Cohen. Karen · Wytrwal, Lynda Richards, and :Meredith Auten choreographed a ~eautiful~ courtly and quite 1mpress1ve ballet namber danced on pointe. · The ~rts Club will be proudly presentmg the musical talents of Union which range in diversity from 16th century tonal cou.nterpoint to the modern jazz of Manheim Steamroller. In brief~ the performances include Jean- Jacques Moudot's flute duet played with the utmost of skill· by Joann Berger arid Sarah j ••• Carpenter. Next, Karen Stash joins them for the Tonal flute trio, \Tanjarello '' composed by Melissa Beth Bruen. Lisa Fratianni and Howard Fiedler do an admirable job tackling Beethoven's Spring Sonata in F. Diane Pavacic joins flutist Joann Berger for the beautiful Poulevc Sonata for .flute and piano. Mark Steingesser, along with Bob Hartman and friens, present their own rendition of Manheim Steamroller's ''Return,\ a multi instrumental piece opening with a vocal chant. Scott Dexter will play a solppiano rendition of Chopin's Etude, Opus 10, no. 9. Finally, the dancers and musicians unite in a ragtime number choreographed by Melissa Beth Gruen. The · show is free and no tickets are needed. Please come and support Union's creative talent. We promise to give you a w.eat hour of entertainment. J Glee Clubs Perform A major performance of the Union College Men's and Women's Glee Clubs will take place Saturday, May 5, featuring music from the 18th century. The evening will feature invited soloists and an or- chestral assemblage of the country's leading performers on historical instrwnents-one of the few times a group of this kind has been gathered in tlie Capital District. The concert begins at 8 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel. To be performed are Bach's \Magnificat'' and Henry Purcell's \Come Ye Sons of Art.\ Soloists include Patricia Winters '84, Drena Webster '87 and Kenneth Budka '87 as well as nationally known Rodney Hardesty . and. area singers Carol Randles, Bradford Logan and John Malthouse. Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson will direct. The instrumentalists play in most of the important Baroque ensembles in the United States and Eur-ope, such as the Collegium . Aureum, the Sn:Uthsonian Chamber Players, the Concert Royal, Banchetto Musicale and Aston Magna. All the instruments are either original 18th century or authentic replicas. Admission to the concert is $6 for the general public, but is free for Union students, their parents, and other members of the college community. Tickets are available with Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. ***** Welcome Parents! ·****** Arts Festival '84 , '\.~'~'·~~:'r\iiv~ ''<~t-· :,~,' ·. : J, .Y : ;·~:j;f~~ Dance Club & Arts Oub . · ... J·· .. ··:· ·-::-\\' ,.·.: . r Parents Weekend Performance Sat., May5 2:45p.m. Memorial Chapel Free Admission! .AVAILABLE AT THE DUTCH HOLLOW PUB;::: .1· . ...... • . • ·- •• ' •• '·; ...... ··... •. . . • ' ' • \·.·-· .: .• Be there!! The finest ale brewed and bottled in Canada. Imported by Martlet Importing Co., Inc., Great Neck, NfiY. © 1982. I

Page II 374-2406 I · Luncheons served daily Cocktails served Phone: 869-0634 PA RI:'NJS' W 1:'/:'K I:\N /) /WU We have been serving Union College for 36 years! OPEN DAILY· Lunch· Brunch . Dinner Late Evening Snacks 237 Union Street Schenectady, New York America's grea.test Jazz entertainers. in our .lounge Italian. Continental, American Food RISIORANTI Just off Northway, Exit 2W Schenectady's Most· Unique Restaurant/ Lounge A Restored Turn of the- Century· Firehouse A chic, casual atmosphere with relaxed dining and excellent food. • • • • I 4 • • * ........ • * •• •• • • • • •• • * •• * ·~··· • • • . • * •• • • *. •* • • • • • • • ~- \ • * • • • * • ~an CAFE 1584 State Street, Schenectady. N.Y. (518) 382·0257 Welcome Parents Perrino's Restau~nt And Cocktail Lounge T Phone 37 4-4515 Ralph Perrino P.roprietor 2015 Rosa Road Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 f! 74 I -

::= ·;:: !.- (!) ::E ..... 10 f.i., > .0 ·0 - 0 .c: 0. ell I'll Cl .c: u a; c: .c: a. n:J 0 > .c 0 - 0 .c: c. • ' CX:IU, No. 23 Schenectady, New York May 10, 19-84 Skellar Procedures Questioned- On May 7, J SU protested. the appea ranee of Ambassador Ck>v isMaksoud of the Arab League. Two Resigned . .iJ By GAYLE ROSENFELD News ElditoJ;\ On Tuesday night, April24, an incident occurred whereby Seniors Michael McCreary and Kent Avery both quit their jobs as assistant manager and employee, respectively, of the College's Rathskellar. Upon request by Director of Food Services J.an Gray, Jack Parisi, assistant health com- missioner for the city of Schnectady and part time manager for Union's food service, was to oversee Skellar activities on Tuesday, Wed- nesday and Friday evenings starting April 24 of this year. server can be liable if anything should ensue. Also, she believes that students cannot always say \no\ to their friends .and fellow students. \You're asking the · student managers to supervise\ students they know, said Gray. Food Service personnel ''have an advantage as nonstudents,\ said Gray, \that although\ there are interpersonal relationships between staff people as well, \generally when we leave here (the· campus) our \' I'D .~ Ambassador's Le-cture . This shift was normally covered by McCreary on weekends and Skellar Manager Brian Cot- terell during the week. Cot- terell's position has been retained whereby he will be on duty on Thmsday and Saturday evenings, but tbat of student managers and heads has been greatly diminisned- ·( altlmugh) they will still be in charge on Sunday and Monday nights} with Parisi's new position. .c: u Q.l c .c: c. Ill 0 >- ..c e ~ k' . • Spar .sDemonstration 0 .c: c. O.irector of Food Services Janet Gray By JAN SARAN Associate :News Editor Last. Monday night, May 7, a demonstration, spons()red by the Jewish Student Urii()n ( JSU) was held to protest the visit of Ambassador Clovis Maksoud of the Arab League~ .(\.ccording to . the leaflet handed out at the p1•otest, the JSU has many objections to his visit. First, t:hey are against his policies. Specifically, objections were made to -the expulsion of Egypt from the Arab Leag:ue, the support of the Palestinean Li-beration Organization's (P.L.O.) claim that Isreal \is flltldamentally mlll and void,\ and the Arab League's lobbying for .the non-recognition of Israel. ''The purpose of the protest is to let people know what Mr:lksoud stands for. We want to male sure that everyone knows both sides of .issues befClre walking io.to the chapel.'' - -protestor The second objection con- cerned the controversy over the Anwar SadElt name to the lec- ture. Originally, Maksoud was offered the opportunity to speak, sponsored by Frederic Miller~ the history departJnent, and the Anwar Sadat Peace lectureship Series. He accepted this position on the condition that the name was withdt\awn. The J .S:U. objected to this with· drawal writing that it was in- sulting, inconsistent, and questions: '\Why the invitation was not withdrawn?'' A third point made in the leaflet hand~d. out at the protest was that the J .S. U. does ' 4 not reject Dr.. Maks()tid' s right to speak'; but it objects \to the history department's sub- mission to the dictates ofsuch a. controversial man.'' A protestor clarified this position: \To have a Speaker dictate the rules of a school is not toe> great.,, A second protestor, Mike Factor, former president of the J.S.U., also commented on this issue: \He was invited here originally under that guise (the Anwar Sadat Lecture Series), he rejected it, and therefore we feel that he should have withdrawn.\ An objection to the title of the lecture was also brought out at the protest. The title of his lecture was \Prospects for Peace in the Middle East.'~ Factor questioned the issue .of peace. As he stated at. the protest, \The man is speaking for peace. We (the students of J.S.U~) don't understand how you can have peace when y-ou totally reject the right of one of the nations (Israel) to exist.\ He ended with one final com· ment: \Maybe he'll have ·peace, but his peace is one where Israel does not exist.\ The main purpose ·Of the demonstration, however, was mentioned by an()ther protestor. As she stated, ''The purpose of the protest is to let people know what Maksoud stands for. We want to make sure that everyone knows both sides of issues before walking into the chapel.\ It was em- phasized that the J.S.U. did not want to block any students from attending the lecture, but merely wanted to inform the audience. The J.S.U. organization responded to a question posed by this reporter concerning the timing of the J.S.U. movie . (Was the timing of \Operation Thunderbolt\ purely coirl· cidental?.) Junior Ravit Avni stated, ''The movie was plt~nned three monthS ago to honor Israel's independence. It was not intended to draw people away from the lecture. The timing was purely coincidental. We decided not to change the time of the movie because we realized that students would not want to spend five hours at,. tending both a movie and a lecture.'' The protest itself was very peaceful. Both Dean of Students Joseph Mammola and Union Security were at the protest to diffuse possible violence. The security men continuously tried to keep the protestors moving so that an unpenetrable group of students would not form. According to Gray, \This year I asked for much greater management coverage.\ In the past, it was vex:y connnon to have student heads close the · Skellar \because of the ex- pansive hours,\ said Gray, but she believes that this should no longer be placed upon students. \Last year I felt we (the College) would be better served to have managers\ of the Skellar who were not students, said Gray. · One concern that Gray ex- pressed was student liability on this issue. If a student serves another student alcohol, t~at con1munity is separate from this. We're not under that constant pressure\ to adhere to the wishes of our peers. Extensive consumption of alcohol by students at the Skellar is what Gray views as a problem here. \We (Food Service) are not to serve anyone who shows any real or apparent intoxication,\ said Gray . However, she believes that students are and have been served past the point of in- toxication at the Skellar. She does not particularly blame the Skellar employees per se, but she does \think it's very dif- Continued on page 9 As part of Parents' Weekend festivities, two students performed last Saturday, May 5 during the Arts Festival.

• • • .. • • • • ·• e • If) 10 Ol .c v CIJ c: .c Q. Ill 0 >- _Q 0 .... 0 ..c: a Page2 CONCORD/t.\NSIS M~J' fO, 1984 Proiessor .:1 ack Lipton of U nmn's psychology department has recently become head of the Sc.henectady County Crimina I Justice Advisory C<>uncil. foru·rn Meets - Lipton Elected to IJy JUDIE STEINHARDT Staff Jack Lipton, assistant professor of psychology at Union, has been eleeted chainnan of the Schenect.ady County Criminal Justice Advisory Council. He was elected by the twenty members of the Counell to be the first chairman of the recently for- med committee. Prof. Lipton was one of the original members of the counC!il, which was formed last year by the County Board of Re.presentatives. The Board nominated Prot Lipton for the position because the council had no chairman, and he was considered .the best person for the job. Prof. Lipton says there was no chairman before because the council is \just developing some structure now.\ The idea for the Criminal · Justice Advisory Council came from other counties, which have had great success with similar bodies. topics are: $uicides in jail, bail, and police practices. Prof. Lipton, Who was · originally nominated as a community-at-large member, says he was elected chairman because he is \really neutral, an outsider to the cri.Illinal justice system.'' His e;q>ertise in the- area, however, is unquestionable. He is a specialist in the psychology of eyewitness testimony, as well as jury decision-rnakillg. He has published research on both topics, and' his doctoral dissertation was on the ''social psychology of jury behavior.'' Finance Issues Reviewed The purpose of the council i$ to stimulate .interchange bet• ween members of .Schenec- tady's criminal justice system. Prof. Lipton says it \brings together all the people from the criminal justice system . . . so they can communicate in an open, civiUzed, constructive way.\ He says that many of these people are in natural opposition to each other-~ople ~rom the Bar Association, the Police, Judges, the District Attorney's Office, and the community itself. The J tistice Advisory Council gives them a chance to converse in a less charged atmosphere than the normal workplace, and possibly even to settle some disputes. Prof. Lipton teaches a course at Union called \Psychology and the Criminal Justice System,\ which he has taught for four years. In his class, he takes students to observe court rooms, police stations., and prisons. Through this and various other activities, he was known as an interested citizen in · Schenectady's criminal justice system even before tpe council's formation. If) 10 Ol :c v CIJ c: .c Q. ttl Q >- .0 .2 0 .c Q. By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor \I feel that the students should have some input as to prograrnmtng decisions for the new Pub video system . . . , \ stated Junior Trustee Shari Midoneck at the last Student Forwn meeting (of May 6). In addition t4l the Pub video system coniract, a variety of old and new business was discussed bJ the forum. As is the usual procedure, committee reports were presented first. Chairman of the Finance Conunittee Brian Laux presented the minutes of the last finance committee (FC) meeting. At its last meeting, Chairman of the Elections Committee., Doug Landon, suggested that this year's Student F()rum elections be conducted with paper ballots, as opposed to the usual voting machines. The FC agreed on the money-saving scheme. However, when the issue reached the forum for discussion, tile forum believed that too m811y problems 'would be created by the use of the cheaper paper ballots. It was also noted that the money for the machines has already been allocated. In its 1984-85 budget, WRUC, · Union's radio station, has allocated funds for summer student laoor to help maintain the station ill working order and keep it <Jn the air. WRUC General Manager Scott Wykoff was present at the forum meeting to discuss this. Wykoff stressed the need for main- tenance of the station. It was decided by the forum that the FC sho.uld further delve into the viability of student labor. The last fillance concern was the funding of the new Big Brothers-Big Sisters car. It was determined by the FC that the cost of the automobile would be repaid t() the school next year out of the '\carry over\ from this year's budget. Chairman of the Committee on Committees (~CoC) Jared Squires presented the CoC report next. Presently, the CoC is conducting committee chairmanship interviews in addition to reviwing three constitutions; Committee selections for nextyear will be submitted to the forum as quickly as possible. Escort Service Initiated Discussion then turned to the Interfraternity Council (IFC). IFC President Roger Harris presented the report. Last week, the IFC initiated its escort service. Feedback from the service's success is not yet available. In addition, the IFC is also looking into the issue of house liability, with each of the campus Greek organizations determining its individual in- surance' needs. Lastly, it was announced that Greek Week will be held the week of May 19. Scheduled events on that day include a performance by the band \New Riders of the Purple Sage\ (the performance to be held on West College Beach). The last conunittee report to be heard was that of the Student Affairs Council (SAC). Senior Representative Barbara Rogers reported that the SAC is currently looking · into a definition of the role of resident advisors (RA's). Assistant Dean of Residence Life, Dave Wood, was present at the last SAC meeting to help answer questions about the R.A.'s. Discussion is expected to continue at the SAC's next meeting. Forum discussion then turned to the area of \old business.\ Earlier in the year, the possibility of a Pub video system was analyzed and ap- proved. Forum President Winthrop Thurlow presented On Thursday, May 3, Jerome Sercnuck, president of Jerom.e Serchuck E11terpr.ises, lec::tured on the \Financing of a Real Estate Development Project\ at 3:45p.m. in BaileY 312. the contract for the vic:leo system to the forum .for ap- proval (the contract involves the Pub, the Social Committee, the Concert Committee, and the • forum). One clause in the contract came into question concerning the Pub's s<Jle decision over the showitlg of \controversial material.'~ rt was decided by the forwn (im a motion) to delete the clall:Se, thus .providing both the fortml and Pub with programming rights~ The contract was then appr()ved with the clla11ge made. Freshman Representative Sam White's proposal for Washington's Birthday off is still in the working stages. Whife announced that he is checking all possible aveniies and will have a forrmal resolution drawn up so tliat it can be presented properly to the Student Affairs and Acade!Oic Affairs Councils. · \New business\ then became the subject of forwn discussi()n. The idea of a representative from the Panhellenic Co11!1cil was discussed. It was argued that since tile IFC has a representative, the Panhellellic Council should also have one. It · was noted that this topic wcs previously brought up, with tbe Panhellenic Council, not taking sufficient action for it to acquire a forum representative. The viability of maintaining an we representative was also discussed, without any motions for further action being made. A m()tion was then made a11d passed to adjourn the meeting. Council's Goal The stated goal of the council, which has become a written law as a County Resolution, is to \assemble information and to advise and to make recom- mendations to the County Board of Representatives\ and to serve as a \vehicle for the identification of · criminal justice issues and the coor- dination of efforts to formulate a policy for resolution of the saiile.\ Some of the topics the com- mittee covers are the public defense and jail systems. It evaluates the assigned councll program and makes recom- mendations. Schenectady is possibly going to another system of public defense. Right now there is no public defenders office-if a defendant cannot afford a layer, he is assigned private counsel. The Justice Advisory Council is considering the advantages and disad- · vantages of an office of public defense. It is also discussing \alter- natives to incarceration in the county,\ says Prof. Lipton. There · is tremendous prison overcrowding in the Schenectady ColUlty Jail, the only jail in the county. Other Despite his obvious suitability for the job, Prof. Lipton modestly claims again that his most relevant qualification is being neutral: \I don't have any politicalalliances,\ he says,\ .. . no constituents, no political party.\ As chairman, Prof. Lipton is required to set the council's • agenda, whatever concerns he or the other members want to discuss. He also finds that as chairman, people outside the committee call him up and want him to bring certain topics up within the council. These people a~e usually from agencies, and the topics are very political. Prof. LiptQn \encourages people to do that\ because he has a \Whole audience\ with the power to make changes. He says \this is the only time these people get together,\ so it is a good idea to contact him with grievances about Schenectady's criminal justice system. Prof. Lipton is a graduate of the University of California, Los Angeles and received his M.A. from the California State University. He earned a Ph.D. in 1979 from the University of California, Riverside, and has been a member of Union's faculty since 1980. His expertise in the psychology of the actors in the criminal justice system, is an asset to the commWlity, as well as the College. Student-Phon-a-thon A Success Thanks to an tlte support fr~lll student phon-a.;thon teams, the · Twelfth Annual Student Phonathon was a success! The student pho~e-a-thon coD'imittee and d!t'ectors of the annual fund hope for contmued suppc.rt and enthus1as~ for the phon-a-thou and wish t<» extend their gratitude to all of this year's participating members. During the four nights . of calling, over two hundred callers participa1ed. Below are the results of ,their dedicated work: Total dollars pledged ••••••••••• ~ •.••••••••••• $56,756 'fetal no. of definite pledges •.•.. ~ .. · .•••••••.. : •. 1540 New pledges • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • -• • • 434 ID.creased dollars • . • . . . • • • • . . . . . . . • . . . • • • . • • . $18,956 Winners of the stttdent phon-a-thon competition: A . .Definite Pledges Secured: · 1. Phil's Mystery: team (Chi Psi) ••.••••.••...••••••••••.•.•• 106 2. The Nankins. I •• •· ••• ' •• e •••••••••• ~ •••••••••••.••••••••• e ••• 97 3. The Foxes •...•.•.••••••• e •••••••••••• e •••• e ••••• ·• ••••.• $ I • 95 B. New Pledges .1. The Foxes. • • .. .. . • . • • • • • • • . • • . • . • • • . . • • • • . . • • • • • • •. • • •. . • . ••• 40· 2. Delta Gamma IJronze •••••••.•.•••••.•.•. · •••••.••.••••.•.• 38 a·. Delta Gamma Pink ••• e ••••••••••••••••••••• s • a ••••••••.•••• 37 C. Total of Increased Dollars Secured: 1. Phil's Myster.y team ..................................... $1451 ·z~ The Foxes • . • . • • • . .. • • • • .. • • • • • • . • -· • • . o • • • • • •• e ••• * • • • • •• $1370 :J. 4th Floor Richmond •••.•.•••.•.••••..••.•.•••••••.••••• $1198 Tile winning teams will be contacted ..... ..... :I 0 0: ClJ 'iii \' ClJ \\l I I M R! tel pr ab sh \b ac Ri su un sol ye de IDl WB ba RE Ce COl tlu de' Th ( He '):' ~ ~ !,:> > ..c 0 .... 0 .c c. Au M* pre sel' thE cor Tht Re: Al~ Ha \A do He1 tha He1 hac sig ch~ Lat Me' sho Mil and She R ane intE tbr< obs' Far he Klii dre: get He· and knu The Jan day g<>ir H that triv Aldl C<>n chill M:or m~u {An TolE Nt shm vari wen its 1 cast vie~ Ace que! has II a\ que~

s :::: :::> 0 0:: Q} 'iii (/) Q! \\l >- ..0 0 .... 0 ..c c. MASH Revealed By STEVE PIRAINO Staff On Friday night, May 4, in MemorialChapel, Author David Reiss discussed the renowned television series MASH. His presentation included stories about the east and crew, a slide show of interviews, and afihn of \bloopers~' from the show. According to Reiss, ''MASH actually began in 1950 when Dr. Richard Poinberger, a chest surgeon in Korea at a MAsH unit, was putting wounded soldiers back together. Fifteen years later, Dr. Poinberger decided his adventures would make a great book.\ The book was a bestseller, and the movie based on· the book was a hit. Reiss stated, ''Twentieth- Century Fox, figuring they could probably make two or three thousand dollars more, decided to do it as a TV series. The rest was history.\ Gene Reynolds, of \Hogan's Heroes\ fame, was chosen to Author David Reiss talks about M*A*S*H series. produce the new series. He selected Larry Gelbart to write the pilot, which he ac- · complished in a mere 24 hours. Then the cast had to be chosen. Reynolds and Gelbart. wanted Alan Alda to play the part of Hawkeye Pierce. Reiss stated, \Alan said, 'No, I don't want to do a show like 'Hogan's Heroes.\ Reynolds explained that he, too, hated \Hogan's Heroes\ and he wasthe one who had produced it! Alan then signed. The rest of the characters were ·soon cast. Later, when Wayne Rogers and McClean Stevenson left the show, they were replaced by Mike Farrell as B.J. Honeycutt and Harry Morgan as Colonel Sherman Potter, respectively .. ''Ran For HiS Life\ been away to catalog character traits abo11t Hawkeye that I normally avoid doing.'' Each character was thus explained in a very informative way. · Reiss then talked more about the sho:w. \MASH was shot 99 percent indoors in a room about the siZe of this room (Memorial Chapel:), ttte noor was tar paper, and there were some · strategically p]aced shrubs, rocks ~d dirt .. It was very deceptive. The Korean background th.at you saw was really a painted curtain.'' The average day was nine to ten hours long, five days a week. They had '\rap\ ·sessions and were a fam.ily that loved each other. I Pradi<!al Jokes Reiss proceeded to discuss the practical jokes between the cast members. Many of these jokes went on to become part of a show called \April Fools.\ One of the funniest jokes, ac· cor_ding to Reiss, was when \Harry and Jamie got together and put a naked mannequin on Mike Farrel's couch and then hid in the closet. They heard Mike coming 11p the stairs and got the giggles. Mike knows something is up. He sees the mannequin, goes over to the closet, locks it and leaves them there for twenty minutes.\ They allhad a good time as long as no one got hurt and Reiss spoke of them as a real fun- loving bunclt. Reiss then showed .a blooper reel. The highlight of the reel occurred when a camera man walked onto the .set, while the camera was rolling, to get a light reading. Alan Alda em· harasses him, and you see the camera man slink off the set. Reiss explained MASH's uniq-ueness: \In the second show ever aired~ called 'Sometimes Your Hear the Bullet,' a journalist friend of Hawkeye's gets hit by a bullet and dies on the operating ta:ble. CBS said 'People can't die on television for real.' But they did it anyway.\ A similar oc- currence ha,ppened when Henry Blake's plane got shot down over Korea. It was done because MASH once and for aU wanted to show that war was not a game. Reiss concluded by· talking about the effect that MASH created on society. Mike Farrell received a letter thanking him for saving a life. A heroin addict had seen B.J. Honeycutt refol'lll a soldie,r who was addicted to the drug on MASH. The addict then stopped cold turkey and straightened his life out. According to Reiss, \MASH had that type of impact on people/' COiVCORDIENSIS, May 10, 1984 Page3 ~nion·~ Ptesident John MOrris presided over panel discvssion last Saturday, .May 5 on \Op- pottumties for International Education.\ Terms Abroad Discussed By LINDA RAFFAELE Staff '''Opportunities for Inter- national Education\ was the title of an interesting and in· formative panel discussion presented on Saturday, May 5, in Memorial Chapel. Presided over by President John Morris, the panel spoke about the dif- ferent opportunities available to Union students for study abroad. President Morris began the disc1,1ssion by speaking about the importance of terms abroad. He believes they are · important for three main reasons. First of all, he feels tbat, \Co).lege should demand a breadth of knowledge,\ and experiEmce in the international sphere enhances that knowiedge tremendously. Secondly, he said, \We need to know how the world fits t<Jgether. By placing ourselves in a different situation, we can understand the world and its different peoples better.,., Finally, by understanding othe~s, we can begin to really understand ourselves. Morris s.aid, \We hope that stud,ents who participate in terms abroad will begin to see themselves in new and improved ways.\ · Professor William Thomas, Ass<Jciate Professor of French and Director of the Terms Abroa<J_ Program at Union, was nex:t to speak. Thomas spoke about the unique aspects of Uni<Jn terms abroad. He began by mentioning that this is the fifteenth anniversary of Union terms abroad. Back in 1969, Unhn began term abroad prDgrams in Austria, . France, and Spain. Since then the program has expanded greatly. With the addition of terms in Mexico and Japan next year, Thomas joked that, \The sun alm()st never sets on Union's empire.\ · One of the unusual aspects of the program is. that it permits practically any student. to go on a term abroad. Even engineering students, who are on a vefY tight schedule, can take a term abroad if they plan for it ahead of time. Also, students can go on more than one term abroad. Thomas believes that it is a very ''democratic process.'' He explained that, \The basic goal of the pr.ogram is to in- tegrate the student into the cultural life as quickly as possible.'' This is accomplished by \placing the students with families and by designing the courses offered to be particular tc the country.\ The school has tried to keep the cost for a term abroad the same as the cost for a term at Union. The student is asked to pay the cost of transportation to , and from the country and all personal expenses. All scholarships received at Union apply to terms abroad. Thomas says that about 35 to 40 percent of each class takes a term abroad. He considers it to be \one ~f. the most significant experiences of the college career.\ Vice President for Academic Affairs, . Thomas D'Andrea, spoke on the student exchanges with other countries offered at Union. There are four such exchanges. For every student Union sends to a university abroad in these programs, it will receive a student to study here. . The first exchange D'Andrea talked about is the one with St. Andrews University in Scotland. The exchange is for a full year of study. Tuition and room-board are the same price as at Union. This year the ex- change student at Union is junior Gordon Sloss. His counterpart at St. Andrews is a grandmother from the district area. Union also has an exchange with the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, Switzerland. Selected students spend their junior year at the institute studying science or engineering. The program is unique in that it is the only program in which foreign students can spend over three months studying in Switzerland. A less fonnal exchange is the exchange that Union has with West Germany. The Society of Women's University Clubs in West Germany tries to raise enough money to support a student to study in that country each year. A student attends almost every year. The last exchange is the one with York, England. Each year three to five students spend a semester (fall term-winter break) on this exchange. They pay Union tuition but spend the time in England. Reiss· proceeded to tell anecdotes of some of his more interesting me~ories of MAsH through the eyes of an on•set observer. He stated, \Jamie Farr's favorite story was when he was playing the part of Klinger and couldn't unzip his dress. He ran back to the set to get help but everyone was gone. lie walked into the men's room and found a guy in there 'whose knuckles scraped the ground.' The man unzipped the dress and Jamie _ran for his life. To this day Jamie is still 'afraid of g()ing to the men's room.\' Cal.ifornia Awaits Games In addition to these ex- changes, there are three scholarships available to students for study abroad. The Marshall Scholarship provides for two years of study in England for students working towards their baclaureate degree. The Rhodes Scholarship offers two years of study at Oxford. Finally, the Watson Traveling Scholarship makes available funds for students wishing to study a particular topic abroad. Students from selected colleges and univer- sities around the country submit proposals for study abroad. These proposals are judged by a committee and selected students receive $10,000 to finance their studies abroad. Participants in the program are asked to submit a summary of their studies when they return. D'Andrea com- mented on the Watson Scholarship: \It is a splendid opportunity for students wishing to study .abroad. It offers an interesting hiatus from one's major because it is not aimed at a narrow career path. Students can study almost anything that interests them.,. He advises that students in- terested in this fellowship start thinking about proposals very early. Reiss spOke of many things that don't always make the trivia books. He talked about Aida and Farrell's personal C().mpetitiveness, Aida's childhood bout with polio, Harry Morgan's fatherly image, and many, many more stories. (And, yes! Jamie Farris from T()ledo in real life, too!) . Next, Reiss presented a slide show of his interviews with various members of the cast as ~ell as the theme song sung in 1ts entirety. Reiss asked each c~st member to explain. how he vtews his own character. Acco~ding to Aida, \This question is very interesting. It has made me talk about Hawkeye more than any one question that I've ever had. It's CPS - Despite worries about crunched summer school schedules, being thrown DUt ~,>f tbeir donns or apartments, and the noise and inconvenience of a great deal of on-campus con- struction projects, college students in Los Angeles ap- parently are gre~ting one of the largest intrusions.on college life ever concocted-the Swnmer Olympic Games-,stoically. ''UCLA,\ con. cedes 2()..year- old Colleen Kenby, a UCLA junior, iii a typical assessment, \has don~ the best they could/' Students have long · been worried they'dbevictimized by the huge infusion of viSitors to the Olympics. The main reason is that many of the games arad m11ch of the housing will be in the Civic Center· area of town, near the University ()f Southern California, and in Westwood, hOme of UCLA. P~pperdirie, which is on the beach in Malibu, Loyola- Marymound, Cal State-Los Angeles, and Cal State- Dominguez :flills Will also play major roles fu . the games, hosting events and housing up to 10,000 athletes. .All the activities-which are expected· to bring an estini.ated 200,000 people a day to Southern California and clog freeways- take place July 28 through August 12, at a time when many of the students at the campuses involved ordinarily would be going to sununer school or living in their apartments holding their leases until the re!lular school year. None of ~hat is possible this swnmer. · :USC is converting some of its d(nms into the main Olympic Village, housing up to some 700 atbletes. Summer school, which nor- mally runs into early August, will start earlier (May 9) and end earlier (July 25) than usual, reports Duane Hickling, USC's executive Olympics ad- ministrator. UCLA is also starting its summer sessions a week earlier than usual, and cutting them short in July. · Pepperdine is changing the format of its swnmer sessions to accommodate the games, says Dean JohnS. Wilson. Most student worries, however, have concerned where they'd live during those sum- mer sessions. With athletes moving into the dorms and off-campus rents jacked up beyond student budgets in order to profiteer from the visitors, students would have no place to go. \Everyone's been cautious to plan carefully,\ says Felicia Sison,, student Olympics coordinator at UCLA. \Students have anticipated the housing Continued on page 4 Chairman of the History Department, Professor Donald Thurston, addressed the tenn abroad in Japan planned for next fall. He believes that the addition of Japan to the Terms Abroad Program is important because American business is becoming increasingly in- ~emational and Japan is an important country in this process. He mentioned that the Comparative Communist Studies .program at Union is the only one that he knows of like it in the country. Unfortunately, though, no course is offered in the Japanese language so students participating in the program will not have the op- portunity to learn the language before going abroad. Thurston Continued on page 9 •

ill ltl 01 .c v Q) c: .c a. ltl 0 >. ..Q 0 - 0 .c c. Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, May /0, 1984 Arab Head Defends Views By JAN BARAN Associate News Editor This past Monday, May 7, 1984. a press .conference was held h()noring Ambassador Clovis Maksoud, perm~ment observer of the League ·Of Arab States to the United Nations and chief representative of the Arab League to the United States. In his ·opening statement, he add.ressed the rejoining of Nabih Berri to the Lebanese cabinet. He hoped that this development would ''diffuse the level of violence\ in that area. Maksoud. also declared that the \promise of stability is now far more (likely) than the pessimism that has charac- terized\ the region suggests. The leverage from this ap- A.mbassador Clovis Maksoud spoke last MoAday, May 7, at 8:30 pointment should be used. p.m. Computer ·future Foreseen By SARAH CALDERINI Staff \It's the 80's.'' This has been said a million times, but what does it mean? To a large extent, \the 80's have been, and will continue to be, the pioneer decade for the computer. Union is keeping time with the technological advances by making many changes in its computer facilities. Last Saturday, May 5, a discussion was held in Stein- metz about Union's present computer facilities and the prospects .for a computerized future. The discussion was entitled ''The- Personal Com- puter and Students in the 1980's.\ Associate Professor Robert Baker of the philosophy department, opened up the discussion by speaking on the recent development of the Computerized Humanities Undergraduate Courses (CHUC). Prof. Baker spoke of the traditional attitude of the humanities toward technology as an enemy. \The invention of the telephone was thought to discourage writing and the invention of the television was thought to discourage reading, writing and thinking.'' However, this ttaditional view has been disproved and the humanities have found that they can indeed survive in a technologically . advanced society. By using the word processor through CHUC, the humanities courses at Union have been introduced to the computer. Assistant Professor Jordan Smith of the English depart- ment explained the advantages of combining the two areas which, until recently, had not been considered to be even remotely related. Ptof. Smith stated that \students (using the word processor) seem to be taking their work more seriously.\ Many humanities thesis students have taken advantage of the CHUC facilities. In the basement · of the Humanities building, the CHUC room serves those students enrolled in specific CHUC classes. Prof. Srnith is pleased with the en- thusiasm. He believes that .Professor Robert Baker of the philosophy depa~tment. students are taking more time with their work and that they are using the CHUC room to their advantage. The room appears to have become a conunon place where students cannot only compose but where they can talk about their writing . with one another. To complete and .perfect CHUC, Professors Smith and Baker believe that a more sophisticated software program is needed. Also, as' more and more students are being in- troduced to CHUC, the demand will in~rease for machines and Union will need to provide more computers. Associate Professor George Williams of the computer science department stated that ''70 percent of all students take an intense computer course before leaving Union.\ However, Prof. Williams was careful to consider the changing future. Tomorrow's student body will be quite different from today's. \Children of today will arrive at our doors with previous knowledge of com- puters.\ All the speakers believe that the visuality of computers is a key factor in learning. Eventually, the humanities classes would like to own a large screen where student WOJ)k can· be displayed and critiqued. There seems to be more learning taking place whereby one can actually see one's mistakes. Grammar drills and practices are part of Computer Aided Instruction ( CAI), another · recent development. This system makes drilling and practice more enjoy.able While it also provides immediate reinforcement for the student. Those who attended the discussion were also shown the TEK and GIGI (Graphics Imaging Generating Interface) computers which vividly in- corporate color into their problem solving. The possibilities of what computers can do appears to be never- ending. From the enthusiasm exhibited by the professors speaking at this discussion, it is apparent that Union is becoming a more computerized institution in order to SijrviVe in a computerized world. Olympics Intrude on L.A. Continu.ed from page 3 shortage.\ \Nobody lives there per- manently anyway,\ adds Manuel Torres, a member of UCLA's student government. USC's Hickling says any students who need dorm rooms but can't get them during the games will be moved \just across the street\ to off-campus housing. In anticipation of the problem, the L.A. City Council passed a law making it difficult to evict any Angeleno from any housing during the Olympics period. But Damon Martin, UCLA's assistant housing director, warns students \have to be aware of the law\ in orderto be protected by it, and to avoid being evicted by off-campus landlords trying to impose \monopoly-level'' rents. Generally, \the only way a landlord can evict you is if you break the lease,\ he says. Some landlords consequently are watching students closely for anything resembling lease- . . . college students in Los Angeles apparently are greeting one of the largest intrusions on college life ever concocted the Summer Olympic games - stoically. breaking behavior. '-'You have this feeling you've got to be on your best behavior,\ explains Nancy Cutler, a 22-year-old UCLA senior. In the Westwood area around UCLA, one-bedroom apart- ments currently rent for about $700 a month. Some press reports say the asking price for the summer is up to $800-$900 a Week. At the 1982 World's Fair, held next to the University of Ten- nessee, Knoxville city or- dinances against rent gouging during the fair didn't prevent landlords from evicting about a score of· students, UT officials report. Yet, aside from a USC grad students, Southern California schools have received few complaints from students claiming they · were being evicted in order to vacate apartments for higher-paying Olympic visitors. Some students, of course, are not even bothering to try to go to school during the Olympics. \A lot ofpeople plan to get out of the . area,\ says Gigi Fait- child, USC's student liaison to the Olympic committee. And some students are not above profiteering themselves. according to Maksoud, to bring about the withdrawal of Israel from Southern Lebanon i:n accordance with Security Council Resolutions 508-509. . THe second issue discussed by Maksoud was the peace plans that have developed in the last years. In September 1982, \a credible peace plan\ was spelled out by the Arab League in its summit conference, ac- cording to Maksoud. After taking this plan to many governments, the United Nations and the \capitals of major countries who are the permanent members of the Security Council,''the L.eague found many \points of con- vergence,\ especially as they pertained to the need for Israel to withdraw from Southern Lebanon. The main problem with previous plans for peace, such . as the Camp David Accords, was that they did not account for the Palestinian's right to self-determination, according to Maksoud. Maksoud also distinguished between the two types of peace, just and unjust peace. ''A just peace would be a durable peace,\ stated the ambassador. On the contrary, an unjust peace is one which \maintains rights denied,'\ and is \amenable to alternation.\ The Isreal agreement was rejected by Maksoud as a just peace because. it was \negotiated under duress of Israeli oc- cupation.\ Finally, the credibility of the Palestinian Liberation Organization {P.L.O.) was discussed by Maksoud. The Arab League has \recognized the P.L.O. as a full member among its membership.\ He also stated his opinion on the legitfmacy of the P.L.O. in the international community: \The internation~l community recognizes the P.L.O. as the official representative of the · Palestinians. The P.L.O. constitutes a viable, legitimate organization in terms of the international community.\ Since \most liberation movements have been called terrorist movements\ at one point or another, the denun,.. ciation of the P.L.O. by Israel should not mean that we ''pay exhaustive amounts of attention to 'shrieks of irrationality' by the Israelis,'' according to Maksoud. This debate on the proper course for p.eace in- tbe Middle East continued when Maksoud spoke on the \Prospects for Peace in the Middle East\ in Memorial Chapel at 8:30 p.m. later that day. This lecture and the entirety of Ambassador Maksoud's visit was sponsored by Union's history department and Frederic Miller, a Union alumnus. Originally, this lecture was to be part of the Anwar Sadat Peace Lectureship. Ambassador · Maksoud, however, refused to give the lecture with that title attached. His reasoning for the refusal was given during the lecture in the chapel. He stated, \If I had accepted the title of the Sadat sponsorship, I would have come under false pretenses.'' He elaborated on these pretenses by noting that he wanted to feel free to speak against the peace accords reached by Egypt. The addition of the Sadat name to the lecture would necessitate that Maksoud speak in favor of Sadat's policies if he did not want to eome under false pretenses. Therefore, .Maksoud stated that he would not appear with that title attached. History Department Chair- men Donald Thurston and Frederic Miller then decided to accept his refusal and to allow him to speak without the Anwar Sadat title attached. This decision, however, was made without consulting other members of the history department. Thurston com- :mented on this decision: \Frederick Miller and I decided that there should be a forum to allow Arnbass&dor Maksoud the opportunity to speak. It was unforttmate that many .mem- bers of the department did not agree with our position. Regrettably, the lecture probably would not have oc- cured. if our decision hadn't been made.\ · Professor Thurston atso stated that politicians' names should not be attached to a lecture sex::ies. The inclusion of the politician's name in the lecture series title almost mandates that the speaker lecture in accordance with the gener~l policy of the politician. Thurston, however, believed ~that the othet side needed to be heard, thus · supported Maksoud's visit without the Sadat title. The lecture itself began with an analysis of violence and nonviolence by the ambassador. He was impressed with the notion of non-violence. Too often, \the innocence of the many gives way to the violence· of the few.\ Unfor- tunately, in this situation a small group can \exercise so much power as to underniine the · influence of a large majority.'' Maksoud argued that this situation, which in- cludes both victims and vic- timizers, has caused much of the conflicts. Instead of this conflict-causing arrangement, \The international community recognizes the P .L.O. as the official representative of the Palestinians. The . P .L.O. constitutes a viable, legitimate organization in terms of the international community.'' -Ambassador Maksoud . Maksoud hoped that citizens of the world could converge because of their consciences on a common ground. He then reiterated his desire for a \more durable peace.\ At this point, a \non-violent\ action occurred at the lecture. An assemblage of ap- proximately 10 Union students left the lecture in an apparent boycott of. Maksoud. Mak$oud responded by telling his audience that the students who boycotted in such a \planned\ move did not have enough nerve to remain and hear what they did not want to hear. Then Maksoud commented on semitism and anti-semitism in the world. He urged the audience to recognize that the Arabs have a \share in the struggle agafnst anti- semitism.'' The ambassador noted that this idea of shared perception of anti-semitism has been missing in the argurtlents of the Israel advocates. ,. His lecture concluded with a response to the often asked question, \Why doesn't the Arab League · of Nations recognize the state of Israel?\ Fh-st, he noted that ''autonomy is not a political right, it is an administrative formula.'' Then, he spoke on the actual recognition of Israel. He asked, ''Which Israel do you want us to recognize?\ After leading his argument off with this question, the ambassador noted it is hard to recognize a state which is ''borderless.\ The state has no borders because \an in- ternational consensus\ has not been reached on the dimensions of its external border. He concluded by stating that Israel ''is a state still in the making'' and consequently any recognition of it at this point would be premature. 0 tl p s1 Tl C' tE a tl tl fi fi lV a: F h: aJ a w h• lo de of w C< til til m pr an Iii! ab thi: an< I t abc: pa~ at l likE rep het• .11 '85 SeE ne~ po~ Un] of 1 I anc go' rec ye~ I

to a of a :!d n- .c- of tis lt, al he ial ~e o. e, in .al ld [)f ~e m 1n a ·\ e. >- :s lt d .s 10 \ ·e y n n n e .e .e i- 'r d s s a d e s '' y l1 l, 1 ,, 0 s ., i s J t s ~ I r t CONCORDIENSJS, May 10, 1984 PageS ST:UDENT F'ORUM ELECTION STATEMENTS Michael Baltay w In order to best .represent the opinion of the $udent body to the admini'stration and the public it is necessary that the student forum president have a real grasp of the. entire Union community. I have been ex ... tensively involved in campus affairs and have been here for three active years. Thr.ough the IFC, in- tercollegiate athletics., fraternity offices, ski team, frisbee & outing club, College Maintenance Business, fine arts, mechanical engineering, French and everything else, I have cometo knowthis campus, and more importantly, to know a great deal of Union students well. I have found that we all have small problems and that a lot of students wotild like things done but don't feellilte going out of their way to do something. I will be around to talk and communicate to people and dig these individual problems out of the woodwork. While being able to com- municate intelligently with *~,PRESIDENT~* · . many individuals on this campus I hope to be a great representative of the diverse student body as a whole. •••••••••••••••• Seniors May Vote •••••••••••••••• Steven Benson Pride. It's the backbone of our college~ 15 U.S. Senators, 91 members of the House, 13 governors, and one President. The first fraternity. The first to offer engineering. Beating Harvard for our colors. A winning football team. We have a history to continue; we have a · tradition to keep~ We have much to look back on, but we also must act today and keep those standards of tradition alive within the workings .of our school. I would like to enhance that tradition and that is why I am running for President of the Student Forum. During my three years as freshman, sophomore, and Independent Student Coalition representative to the Student Forum, I have seen the Forum develop into a more respected and productive organization. As a representative I tried to help the Forum develop with, for exampl~. ideas like Late Nite Bites and actions like the successful TAP Parity Capt- paign. Now it is time for the Forum to further develop its purpose. The Forum must become a more active liaison hetween the students and our ad- ministration. One 'idea is the creation of a Student Forum Benson grievance board which students could report any problems about housing, food service or · any other subject. The Forum members would then know where to bring these problems to get them resolved. Fur- thermore, it is quite important that the Fortun. take an active role in th~ future of the Skellar, the development of the proposed College Center, and other aspects of administrative decisionmaking which will affect student life. Finally, I would also .promote activities on campus which should help bring more spir~t and pride to our conununity. For example, why not have a full campus rally in front ofthe Nott Memorial at the beginning of each academiC year? Here the President of Union, the deans and the student leaders could speak their objectives for that year. Such an event would show . that we are a true Union of People. · It is ~impossible for me to elaborate on my points any more. If you have any questions or ideas please contact me. Deciding to run for President of the Forwn is not a decision I have made lighUy,and because of this I can assure you that I will carry out my duties of of- fice in the proud tradition of Union-the tradition of ex- cellence. ..-..-SENIOR REPRESENTATIVE-* Rob Israel Rather than create and propose a detaile statement and-or list of promises I would like to say simply (in an abridged form so you may read Israel this! )-I'm proud of this class and the people who compose it; I have learned a great deal about you all (and myself) these past three very short years here at Union and I would very much like to have the opportunity to represent us in our last year her-thanks. Doug Landon None of the present Class of '85 Forum representatives are seeking the same offices for next year. This opens up three positions that are critically important to the representation of both our class and the school. I know the responsibilities and procedures of student government. My attendance record at furllm meet·ings this year is over 90 percent, .and my voice has been heard. I've written and editorialized about the activities of the 1983-84 Forum in Concordiensis and The Knickerbocker News. What. would I do on the Forwn? My concerns range from the futures of our beloved Skellar and the Nott Memorial, to \unnecessary' 1 tUition rate increases, to student input toward planning . of the new student center. We- have the issues. The Forum needs not only to discuss, investigate and take stands on the issues, it must be just what its name indicates; a FORUM for· student concerns. The stances of For.wn members must be guided by the views of the student body, and those views must be conveyed to the administration. Among the undergraduates on campus, there appears to be a sentiment that administrative decisions regarding academic and social life are made without consultation with the students. In many cases, this feeling is justified. Through my terms as news editor and editor-in-chief of Concordiensis, I have developed an excellent rapport with many administrators, and would have no fear of bringing student concerns and com- plaints to them. I pledge to be a true \representative\ of niy class. Remember to vote at Car- negie mill tomorrow. I look forward to serving and working with the Class of '85 as we enter our final year together. Jill Liebman Right now all of you reading this statement are asking yourself; who is this girl? Where did she come from? What did she ever do for this campus? Well, basically, these questions are unimportant. What is important is W:hat· will this girl do as your senior rep. My main goal is to keep the senior class informed. I feel this is very necessary since this is our final year to be involved and make our mark on this campus. The seniors should be the leading force in school spirit. r Liebman feel that I can help build up this force and help those who want to be involved get involved. I can be a positive factor to this class in this way and keep a constant feedback between our class and the forwn. I am a highly energetic person who will not give up on anything I put my mind to. I hdpe that you as a class will see to it that I will be given a chance to .act as your Representative and be your voice on the Student Forum. I. believe that I am the right person to represent our class. Lynn O'Brien I am running for Senior Class Representative because I feel I am qualified to attempt and be successful in striving for the well being of the campus O'Brien community. I will always present the ideas of my fellow classmates along with those of my own to the Student Forum. I will be dedicated to this job just as I am to my present position as Sports Editor of Con- cordiensis. If I feelthe suggested solution to an issue might not be for the good of Union College.or benefit the student body I would not be frightened to voice my opinion. (Those of you. who know me already know this.) I am more than willing to dedicate my time and energy to see that not only a sblution to an issue be found but that it be carried out as well. Mary· Phillips Rather than drag · my statement out with a long list of credentials and promises, I hope to make this short and to the point. The Student Forum is not something new tome. I have worked with several members this year in getting the newly · formed Crew Club off the ground and am familiar with the procedures of the Forum and its members. Phillips The administra:tion may make several key decisions every year concerning us but it is our place as the student body to let them know when we are satisfied and when we are dissatisfied. On a small and personal campus such as Union the voice of the student is very im- portant-after all it is our school. We chose Union and we expect to get as much as we can out of our four years here. One year left to go for our class-with this year I hope to help Union continue its fine tradition and upgrade its existing status for the future alumni (tis) and classes to come. I am looking forward to accepting the responsibilities necessary to be an effective representative. Be sure to vote tomorrow. Gregg. Shack· . \It was the best of times, It was the worst of times. It was the age of wisdom, It was the age of foolishness.\ Charles Dickens was, of course, referring to senior year at Union College. The best of times-Senior Fling. The worst of times-thesis deadline. The age of wisdom-the culmination of four. years at a prestigious institution of higher learning. It was the a,ge of foolishness- staying at the Skellar until 4 a.m. the night before you have to take the final to your \F\ liberal learning course. I can't conderim your foolishness and may only ease your worst of times, but I can help with the best of times and appeal to your wisdom. I want to be the dedicated and responsible voice the seniors need on the Student Forum. I am sensitive to the needs of the campus and, if elected, will encourage and pursue input as well as inform the senior class of the decisions made and issues discussed. I want to get the Senior Class' voice back. I feel that I am qualified for the position of Senior Representative. I consider myself imaginative, concerned, and active. These qualities are all essential for a successful Senior Representative. One can see these qualities through my participation in various extra- curricular activities on campus and my involvement in campus concerns. I don't want to make any impossible campaign promises I can't keep (like promising sun constantly during the spring term, or changing Senior Week into Senior Month), but I can, and will promise to do my best and work my hardest to be the most effective Senior Representative ·on the Forum.

Page6 CONCORDIENSJ:l: May 10, 1984 *--SOPHOMORE REPRESENTATIVE---- * Ste-ven Black Hi, I'm Steven Black and I'm running for the office of Sophomore Representative. As you all know in the past year we have all run across many new experiences at Union College. Many of these experiences have been good, but for all of us there are many things which we would also like to change. One of the institutions which I would like to see change is the Student Forum. That is my main reason for running for Sophomore Representative~ I think that tl)e Student Forum should be a more influential part of Union College life. To do this I believe that there should be more interaction between the Student Forum and the administration. I believe that if we can gain the respect of the administration; then they will be more receptive to the ideas that we bring up. While interaction with the administration is important, I also feel there should be more student participation. While everyone on campus complains of apathy, I do not believe that is the real-problem. I think that many people just do not know how to become involved. I believe that if we better educate and publicize what is available · on campus, and ways that people can get involved, then more people will .get involved. I have not seen very many three by three ads in the school newspfiper which have inspired anyone into decisiv~ action. I believe through more personal interaction we will be able to better motivate people and help the campus community shed its lable of apathy. On another note, I believe that the Student Forum should have more interaction with the fraternities and sororities on campus. I believe this because no matter what anyone says we all know that they control the social life on c~mpus. By coordinating Greek activities with those sponsored by Student Forum committees I thin~ that we can enhance ou_r enjoyment of our college experience~ I hope that when you all go to vote you Will remember the name Steven Black, and give me the chance to serve all of us and make Union College the best that it can be. · Valerie Bromberg I would like to take this op- portunity to introduce myself as the candidate for Sophomore Representative. I have been a prominent freshman during the 1983-84 academic year through dint of hard work, deep con- centration and jogging, I have been able to persuade the college authorities to give me a second chance. (I've also persuaded my parents to fork out another year's tuition.) So ··-. Bromberg now as a sophomore, I have the good fortune to offer my very substantial skills to those still in need of assistance. On election day~ I'd like to encourage those who understand the need for a class representative to vote for the candidate who most un- derstands your needs. Her name is VALERIE BROM- BERG. Jason Green Since the day when our parents first told us of the great times that we would have at college, often drawing from their own experiences, I think '<le have alJ. looked forward to being here with great ex- citement and enormous an- ticipation. We saw our friends in high school graduate, and come back to visit, each with a thousand stories, each creating in us a greater sense of urgency to pick up and live- away at college. What they don't tell us, and what many times we overlook, is the fact that the college life that we have and should con- tinue to have, is the result of work not only on the part of the college administration, but equally a result of the input of the students. Without student participation, the college life that we have always heard of and wished for is sever.ely dampened. Student input does have an effect, and if the effect is not satjsfactory to the Green students, then more pa~­ ticipation and change is m order, and the people . who represent the students should be more effective in their work, and should be elected with that in mind. Student government is something we have all known of before coming to Union. It's purpose is to make better the conditions in which students must function. I think that in an isolated environment such as our campus, it is important that we all take an active role in promoting the kind of academic, athletic, social, and extracurricular programs which we feel can enhance our good times, further our awareness, and make our stay here better each day. I don't promise specifics; I don't yet fully understand every problem faced on campus. What I do know is that where a problem exists, someone is responsible for creating it, and someone should be responsible for remedying it. Prudence in decision~making is healthy, but here at Union, there is no ex-· cuse for prudence to take precedence over the well-being of our campus life. In my mind, there is no excuse for poorly financed clubs and organizations when there are people Who desire more for their activities. Making do with inadequate financing is not something I support. The example set by John Ciovacco and the rest of the Crew team is one that can be repeated in the future. My position, I believe, is solid. Anything that can make our educations better, and that includes all aspects of the College, will be actively promoted as a means to the end of securing for the student population the ability to express themselves .in any way they choose,. to avail themselves of anything that is of interest, and to make their careers here not simply the experience that everyone bas, but to make it a unique experience. Union is a speCial place, and can and should be made more exciting, and more special. It would be a crime and a shame to look back in our years here and not have been satisfied in every respect. If elected, the one promise I can make and keep is to represent and secure the desires of my classmates, and to improve what is already ours. for the taking. I intend to be a respected and effective ad- vocate for oirr class and not just a reporter of the minutes of student meetings. We have the Concordiensis for that. The students should not suffer rejection from their representatives, and I most certainly ascribe to that opinion. When you vote this Friday for Sophomore Representative, keep this in mind, and make the dec sion you will be most pleased with. ·stephen Lipsky Congratulations are in order for all of us, the Class of 1987, for the quality job we have done in beeoffiing members of the Union College society. As it is so aptly put, ''The first is the worst,\ and as it draws to a rapid close, step back and reflect on the good times and experiences we all shared together during this past year; I know I do. As you look back, I'm sure a number of issues must stand out in your minds that you woUld like to see changed and I know the diversity and quality of our class must hold a nwnber of ideas that would make life here at Union even better. Thus, I, STEPHEN LIPSKY, am running for this position of Sophomore Representative to the Student Forum in order tQ help strike life into these ideas 1 know are out there. As a responsible individual I feel I am the one best suited to receive and present your views in such a way that we, as a class, could make a difference here at Union. Union has a multitude of things to offer but they can only b~ attained by pursuit and representation. It's just the beginning of an in- credible voyage and now is the time to mold this campus into one we can be happy with and proud of. The only way to ac- complish this is by having our voices heard and I'm the one to make sure they are. Together as a class we can make a dif- ference. Your support would be greatly appreciated ·and returned in kind. Angela Mercurio Hello. My name is Angela Mercurio and I am running for sophomore representative. First, I'd like to say that I am running not for myself, but for you, the sophomore class. I promise· you nothing, but the dedication, loyalty, and con· sciencio.usness it takes to represent the class of 1987. I will try my best to serve you as honestly and objectively · as I can. I have had four years of \··~·, Mercurio experience working in student government and I know the importance of working hard to achieve beneficial changes. While in office, I'll concentrate my efforts on improvements in class unity, housing and security. I sincerely hope you'll vote for me on Friday, May 11. You won't be sorry you did. Steven Moss Hello, my name is Steven Moss, and I am presently one of the freshman representatives. I have been serving on the Student Forum, acquainting myself with the other members of the forum, with the procedures of the decision making process and the overall governmental structure. Most importantly, however, I have been following and ·discussing the prevalent issues as well as the proceedings of each of the various committees. Con- sequently, I will, if elected, be able to actively participate on next year's forum from the beginning of the year, instead of having ·to start out by familiarizing myself with the procedures. M_Q._SS Currently1 there are several issues at hand which must be noted. TWo of my imniediate . concerns are: the proceedings with the Skellar, and the inadequate plumbing system in West College dorm.. At this time, the future of the Skellar is unknown. We as students must express our support for the Skellar-one of the soCial highlights on campus. If elected, I will make sure to keep the Skellar a topic of discussion at the forum meetings so as not to let this issue entirely slip into the hands of the ad- ministration. In addition. I have been looking into the problem of the plumbing system in West College and have spoken to the head of Residence Life about it. Right now, I am waiting for the results of a survey taken a few weeks ago. If elected, I will continue · to try to hav.e the system repaired. Finally, my major long-term concern isto make sure that our views, as students, concerning the Alumni Gym renovation and the Student Center proposal will not be overlooked in the midst of the proceedings, especially when construction begins. Julie Mountain Why is there a lack ·of com- munication between our student body and our administration? Why must the feelings and ideas of both parties fall short of reaching each other? The Student Forum exists ta bridge this gap, but whether it is a success depends on the qualifications of its individual members. Mountain As a class representative, I would be accessible to both the students arid administration and open to their ideas and opinions. I will make it my top priority to be a well informed liaison; someone able to update both parties on the current issues confronting the Forum. One way I, would inform the students is to suggest that forum members occasionally speak at dormitory floor meeting's. I feel I have a creative ability · necessary for the integration of student idtias and administrative policy. In addition to these qualifications, I have a great loyalty to the members of the Class of 1987. Please remember to exercise your right to vote. Adam Rosman Energy. Enthusiasm. Cim- mitment. I can offer these three attributes as a representative of the sophomore class. These are important because I believe the job will entail three things: A time commitment, fresh and relevant ideas, and most im- portantly a person who really wants to represent the class. I believe I am qualified to be that representative. I have been involved in many areas during m:y freshman year at Union stemming from three sources: Rosman Fraternities, Dramatics, and Athletics. They Will help me to be a more successful representative because they themselves represent the dif- ferent individuals that make up our cqmmunity. I will have two major ·goals as sophomore representative. 1) Either a partial or complete schedule change; and 2) a more politically a~tive campus. I know that Union has many different political ~ttitudes and to not manifest these takes awayabigpartofwhat could be the most interesting aspect of our class. Opinions should be heard and political groups organized. I believe I will be able to speed up the process of \political awakening\ at Union. t r r• o: I \' a g ti sJ :h; ir b· di in tt re m .hE th F Cc bE si: th Fi or Co of co S\1 ap th4 Ad thE CD

I a e tt e 1- !e >f ·e .e 1\ d 1- y I tt n g r1 I CONCORDJENSJS, May 10,1984 Page 7 NTS * -SOPHOMORE REPRESENTATIVE---- * Pam Shapss Hi. I know a lot of you may not know me. My name is Pam Shapss an.d ·I am running for Sophomore Class Represen- tative. Some of YoU may be wondering why I chose to run, sor'lltell you. I am interested in becoming active in school and I figured the best way to do this would be to run for a student government office. I want to help the Sophomore class get as much out of school as possible. I have had some experience in student governement before which will be helpful. I am willing to listen to your ideas about what you would like done and hopefully I will be able to accomplish some of them ii elected. This iS the pmpose of a class representufive totake the students' ideas and to put them into action. So when you're voting, please vote forme, Pam Shapss, for Sophomore Class Representative. Sam White ACTION!! The experience of being your f.reshman representative has been in- valuable. I now know what it takes to get something done at Union. I am coming to you again to ask youlpr your vote. I want to · · be your sophomore represen- tative in order to continue the work begun on behalf of our class and the student com- . munity. Even now, there is a proposal ·*-TRUSTEE--* Andrew George When I ran for sophomore representative last year, I reflected on :my freshman year on the Student Forum and found I really did not enjoy it. There was very little hands-on work, and many arguments seemed to go on endlessly with no prac- tical solutions in sight. We still have more than our share of endless arguments, however, the Forum is turning into a workable and active body. The Forum initiated discussion of the escort service, improvement of the lighting on the grounds, and has recently reactivated the Skellar Board to make certain student views are heard concerning the future of the Skellar. Bylaws for the Finance Committee and Corrunittee of Committees have been approved to insure con- sistency in the management of tlleir internal affairs. The Finance Committee is more organized and structured than most finance committees in- private New York State Schools, and I am. pleased to see the Cornmittee on Com· mittees is taking a more responsive role in dealing with George student activities directly. We are now seeing our student government take on an active role instead of a reactive one. This attitude should benefit all. The Forum also helped initiate a project which I was greatly involved with, 'the President's Dinner for the Freshman Class. This is a prime example of what ad- ministrators and students can do when both parties work towards the same goal. The President's Dinner should serve as a building block for other events where administrators, students and other parts of the. Union community come together in a communal at- mosphere. _ The position of Junior Representative to the Board of Trustees offers me an op- portunity to begin projects wb.ich I think are important to · the student body. In my present position as Associate Chairman of the Finance Committee, the day to day concerns of finances have limited me in beginning new projects. The Board of Trustees meet only four times during the year, so for the majority of the year I can concentrate my energies to the business of the Student Forum. Tomorrow, I hope that the student body will take an active role by voting for the best qualified individuals who will compose next year's Student :Forum. *-VICE-PRESIDENT -ADMINISTRAr;fiON- * Sue Brand The committee is responsible for reviewing student club constitutions and selecting students for various student- faculty and liaison committees. I feel my experience on the Forum and CoC qualifies me to successfully carry out the responsibilities of the Vice President for Administration. of mine being considered by the administration which concerns the alleviation of winter blues. This involves having a long weekend on Washington's birth- day. As your representative, I will contillue to make sure your voice is heard on vital issues. There is the issue of the Rathskellar being removed. These actions could have a serious neg;~otive impact on the S()ciallife at Union. I will help you fight to keep the Rathskellar as is. The social life at Union must get better, not be Impaired. I bear the needs and s11ggestions of our class, and make them kqown with a strong voice in the forum. With con- fidence that comes from ex- perience, I will take action. Allow your voice to be heard through experience-SAM WHITE White Don't Forget To Vote , Friday, May 11th 9 am-4 pm Carnegie Hall *-VICE-PRESIDENT-FINANCE-* Brian Lau:x My name is Brian Laux and I am a candidate for the position of Vice President for Finance. I believe that I am qualified for th~ office .. I am presently the Cahirman of the Finance ·• Committee and as such it is my dtlty to run the weekly meetings, keep accurate and complete minutes and to present all committee business to the Student ForUill. I am familiar with the position and I enjoy both its duties and challenges. The Finance Committee has established bylaws from which it can function smoothly and ef- fectively. I would stress that these bylaws be interpreted and understood so they may benefit the student body to the fullest extent. There are other areas which I - would like to confront as a member of the Student Forum. Among my primary concerns are the fate of the 'Skellar, campus safety and the restoration of traditions to Union College. I believe that Union can best benefit from involved, dedicated and creative leadership. Please supp()rt me on Friday, May 11. Thank you. Laux 'The CoC or Committee on Committees i~ an integral part of our student government. It is composed of three elected student representatives, one appointed representative, and the Vice President for Administration. Currently, I am the junior representative to the Until this term, the CoC did not have any guidelines defining its purpose or its criteria for recommending funding. 'rhe by- laws passed by the forum four weeks ago, clarify many of these problems. As co-author of these bylaws, I fully un- derstand the rationale un- derpinning the new CoC policies. I believe my knowledge of this governance system will enable me to suc- cessfully institute it ne:xt year. *-JUNIOR REPRESENTATIVE·-lf. CoC; . Brand A smooth running CoC will in turn allow the Forum to devote less time debating itS own purpose and more time on issues sUCh as the Skellar and the new studentcenter which, in the long run, will drastically affect student life at Union. The following is the proposed a mend- ment to the Constitution of t~e Student Body of Union College, Article Ill: 61 Sfudents who graduate at the end of the Winter Term of their senior y.ear shall be considered voting members of the SGA during the term following their graduation.\ Students wi II be permitted to vote for or against ratification of this measure on Friday; May 11 in Car.negie Hall. Beth BerneU Life at Union for juniors, couldn't it be nicer? My goal, if elected junior class representative is to strongly improve the quality of life at Union College. I see as a major priority the unifying of the student body so that all of our ·common goals can be achieved. We possess the means by which· to become a more integrated and unified body. That establishment is the Student Forum. . I feel I have the necessary qualifications to contribute to the· Student Forum and its success as, the liaison between Berne II the administration and the students. I realize that personal responsibility must extend beyond one's own goals and aspirations and reflect the needs of the community. I will strongly advocate academic and social events specifically for the junior class as well as for the campus as a whole. For e:xarnple, I would like to organ~e a junior class banquet to· help alleviate winter term blues. I would also like to see a weekend solely dedicated to the junior class, an event analogous to freshmen orientation and· senior's week. I am extremely motivated and believe I possess the necessary skills of leader- ship to make my aspirations a living reality. Chris Siler Fellow classmates of '86: I feel tllat I have served you well as your sophomore representative and I would like the opportunity to continue on, as a junior rep. My first year as a member of the Student Forwn has given me valnable experience so that I may become more active in the year to come. I can honestly say that on voting on con- troversial issues, I ask myself what the majority of our class would want-the opinions of the class I represent take priority over my own. Next year I will be particularly interested in establishing some- sort of traditional activity for our junior class (fre$hman now have their Pres.'s dinner, seniors have their \fling\). Please put me in a position where I can be effective in serving you, by voting for me for your junior representative. Thank you!-chris Siler. Siler

· PageS CONCORD/ENS/~: May 10, 1'9ll4 , • • 1 ma 1 am a e Saturday, May 12 Enjoy the Fun! Enjoy the Sun! • Derby Day Events· • Painter Hats • Clams, Ho1 dogs, • Clambake T~Shirts Burgers • Raffle gifts & prizes • Beer, Non-alcoholic * Free transportation leav·es· Carnegie or else use yo.ur own. (Buses leave at 1 5 ~ minute intervals between 12:30 and 6:30) Refreshments · * Pick up tickets at West or Carnegie all this week * Enioy the fu.n, eni~Y the sun, take a bos to the bake! BAKE TIME IS MILLER TIME! WPI X and the Concert Committee present _ EDDIE MONEY w/specia1 guest at Proctor/s Theater May 13 at 8 p.m. Students $8 Tickets on sale today at the Box Office Coine Celebrate the end of Prohibition 21st Amendment Party ZBT Friday 12:00 Midnight EFFECTIVE 4/23/84 - 6/15/84 HOW IN THE WORLD DID YOU ACCUMULATE All THAT STUFF THIS YEAR? ... And what are you going to do with it? Adirondaek· 1raii:Ways '. ·will ship your bags, boxes, suitcases, trunks, books, teddy bears. bikes, skates, skis, cartons, records, bundles and laundry home for you 2 0 . %_ o_ .• . regular package . Q F F express rates · at · · Just show your student 1:0. card to our package express .. _ ... and let us do the rest! For Information Call: Adirondack TraHways, The Travel Center 22 State Street; Schenectady · . (518) 346-3415 or436·9651, ext. 17 P.S. We'll take you home too! of Tl th F: th e1 bl tll Tl fo w m t\1 st' Fl so th th of \I

t CONl;ORDJENS/S, May 10, 1984 Beta Completes Project By AARON TOFFLER staff Union's chapter of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity has just completed a community work service project witll the Schenectady Battered Women's Shelter. Each of the brothers donated three hours over a period of two weeks to do work on the shelter~ Included in the work was hauling furniture, painting. walls and ceilings and cleaning carpets. work that needed to be done. It was something worthwhile.\ Women's Shelter is run by the YWCA and opened its doors in 1979. It is partially funded by the Department of Social Services and receives support from the United Way and various outside grants. It operates a Crisis Hotline for women and children who are victims of abuse at 374,;3394. The shelter houses about 110 women and 200 children per year. The Battered Woman's Shelter and the YWCA have extended their heartfelt thanks to the brothers of Beta Theta Pi at Union for a job well done. Page 9 (fj Ill Cl .r:: u Cll c: .r:: Q. \' 0 >- .c Y,or: ' • .E: ~·v- _g -~-·•W••'*'· ·•· C. President of Beta Theta Pi Ron ·B rasnil:lan Ron Brosnihan; the president of Beta, explained that the fraternity was ''trying to get (itself) looking better with the College!' The fraternity, just coming off of social probation, was \'conce111ed with relating with the schooL\ To show that it is an improved Greek organization, it went to the school looking for a community service project and the school gave them some choices. The fraternity chose the shelter because ''it was something that everyone could get involved with because of tbe amount of According to the shelter's director, Carol Celegucki, herself a Union grad,uate, ''the m~n. of Beta were extremely efficient, well behaved, did a great amount of work. and always conducted themselves as gentlemen.'·' Because the shelter's residents are· women and children who have been beaten by men, Ms. Celebucki was concerned with the residents' reactions to the fraternity men. ''It was purely positive,'' she said. \The fraternity made a great effort to be helpful and ~·pleasant while · accomplishing many needed repairs.\ Brosnihan also ex- pressed concern that the women. and children would be afraid of the fraternity men, ! 'because of our size.'' He commented however, that they had ' 1 no trouble getting along. The reaction was varied,'' he said. \Some would shy away while others talked to us ·and we had some good conversations.'' New Position Established The Schenectady Battered Continued from page 1 ficult for students to make those (intoXication point) kinds of judgments· about their peers.\ It is much easier to use a non~ student employee as a scapegoat for the cutting off of alcohol distribution to a patron. Gray also does not believe ''Broaden Their Horizons'' Continued from page 3 believes that this will be compensated for by the student living with a Japanese family. A course in spoken Japanese will be one of the three courses taught in Japan. Next to speak was :president of the Student Forum, Winthrop Thurlow, who participated in the term abroad program in Florence, Italy, in 1982. He said that the one reason the trip was exciting · was because of the broad diversity of students and their reasons. for going. Thurlow's own personal reason for exploring Italy was that it was the homeland of his maternal grandparents. Thurlow traveled with twenty-four other Union students. All were housed with Florentine citizens·, although some like Thurlow lived out in the country while others lived in the city. One of the courses offered in Florence was \Renaissance Art in Florence.\ Thurlow found it \a rewarding experience.\ \I now have a greater appreciation for the art of that period,'' he said. In conclusion, he pointed out that students are not necessarily limited to what Union offers abroad. They can take an extra term off to teach English in a foreign· country or perhaps do some further traveling. There are many opportunities. for students to D'Andrea commented on the Watson Scholar- sqip:\It is a splendid op-. portnnity for. students wishing to stud)' abroad.\ . \broaden their horiZons.\ Finally, sophomore Kelly Williams, who will be . par- ticipating in the new term abroad to Japan in the fall, spoke about what she is an- ticipating. As a major in political science with a leaning tow!:nd international affairs, she believes that her term in Japan will help her in her career. She is a little ap- prehensive about the term considering that it is a brand new program and she does not know how to speak the language~ She is very excited about the opportunity to study in the Far East, however., and especially about staying with a Japanese family. \They seem like very gentle and caring people. It will be interesting to see how the family unit works,''· she said. Adapting to different customs (\I'll have to get used .to eating sushi\) might be a little difficult, but overall, Williams is optimistic about the term. One note of interest for those people who might have become interested in a term abroad in Australia after reading an advertisement for an organizational meeting in Concordiensis. According to n; Andrea, \The possibility of a term abroad in Australia is probably as remote as Australia itself.\ This 'is not to say that the possibility of a term abroad in Australia is out of the question, but it should be noted that the school is not planning it for. the near future. that the Skellar should remain open as long as it has in the past: \I don't see any reason for it to be open until 3':00 in the morning.\ However, Gray does not necessarily hold this view at this time: \The longer you stay open, the trashier the place (Skellar) gets.\ As past incidences have demonstrated, allowing the Skellar to. remain open as late as desired does not stop students from drinking and driving. \I don't think alcohol is 100 percent necessary to have fun at college\ either, noted Gray. She realizes that students have ''to have some place where they can be loud\ and put their feet up, but that should not include drinking to the point of utter intoxication. When the Skellar opened in 1949, its purpose was to supply \a snack bar,\ said Gray, where ''the students could get food and beverages after\ the other food places on campus had closed. At that time, there was no other place to get food on campus after FQod Service closed for the day. However, in the 1950s, the Skellar began selling beer as well. Gray believes that her first priority is to supply food to the student population and not necessarily just alcohol. With the lack of demand for food at the Skenar at night, Gray does not believe that the Skellar must remain open so late. However, th~ problem that the Skellar, in the past, has been run mostly by students. The placement of Parisi as a manager in the Skellar, has tended to step on the toes of the student body. Also, the Administration was less than democratic in this matter. According to Cotterell, a few weeks prior to Parisi's in- stallation, Gray had asked him for his opinion on the addition of the manager. On Friday, April 20, Cotterell ·was formally in- formed of Parisi's new position. On the following Monday, April 23, Cotterell told· M~reary of the change and he in turn in- formed as many of the student heads that he could. On Tuesday, April 24, Cot- terell introduced Parisi to the Skellar employees and then left for the night at approximately. 10:30 p.m. Parisi was to inform the student head on duty for the night if he saw any problems. In turn the student head was then to intervene in any incidents that required his attention. However, when Parisi at- tempted . to close the Skellar at 2:00a.m., upon Gray's request, with last call at 1:30 a.m., problems between him and some of the Skellar employees ensued. McCreary and Avery subsequently quit. Previous to this incident, it was Gray's desire to close the Skellar by 2:30a.m. each night and according to Cotterell, \We tried to work as closely to it . (this time) as possible.\ However, there was no other outside party to strictly enforce this ruling until it was m<1re strongly Implemented with the installation of Parisi by Gray. On Wednesday, April 25, Parisi notified Cotterell that he had quit his job at the Skellar, but upon Gray's request, he returned on May 1. He will continue there as planned from 10:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays. As to Gray, ''I'd like to see what I've requested (a 2:00 a.m. closing time) be rein- forced.\ McCreary's job has been split up for the remainder of the term amongst some of the student heads. CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS Richard G. Day, Jr. '39, M.D., Life Trustee ahd vice chairman, Union College Board ofTrOstees, weltom~d parents and students to Prize Day ceremoliy last .Saturday, May 5, in Memorial Chapel Prizes Awarded On May 5, 1984, over two hundred people attended the Prize ·Day Ceremonies at Memorial Chapel. Prizes were awarded to students based on various criteria, including service to the College, scholarship, sportsmanship, and participation. Descriptions of the awards may be found at the back of the Union Academic Register. Sigma Xi Meeting to Occur Union's Chapter of Sigma Xi will hold its annual initiation meeting on May 16, 1984. The traditional initiation ceremony and dinner will be. followed by a talk by Dr. Thomas Brill en- titled \The Application of Science to Art and Art Con- servation.'' Brill's address will begin at 9:00 p.m. in the Social Science Building (SS016) on Union's campus and will he open to the general public at no charge. Brill is a professor of chemistry at the University of Delaware and has also taught in the Winterthur Museum Art Conservation Program. His book, Light: Its Interaction with Art and Antiquities, was published in 1980. Memorial Service to beHeld Memorial services for retired frofessor of Physics Winfred M. Schwarz, who died at Ellis Hospital last week after a long illness, will be held on Tuesday, May 15 at 4:30 p.m. at the Unitarian Church on Wendell· Avenue. Watson Fellowship The Thomas J. Watson Travelling Fellowship offers ~raduates from a small group of liberal arts colleges (including Union) the opportunity for a year of international travel following their graduation. The stipend is $10,000 and each year there are 70 winners from across the country. Your application consists of a description of what you would do with your year of travel, and why your plan is significant to you. The year is not designed to be academically oriented, but rather to provide you with a new and important experience. Students who will be seniors next year will be invited to apply. An informational meeting will be held later this term. Watch for further in- formation or contact Prof. Doug Klein in the Econ()mics Department. \

Page 10 Olllltfnrbirnsis Foundrc/ at l1111on Collec_e f877 ------------ ----------- Basis For Rumors? .. Rumors have been circulating. recently about the fate of a beloved campus establishment-the Rathskellar. The Skellar faced some problems last year and was consequently closed on certain weeknights due to lack of business. This year, however, the Skellar has regained its place as a center of social life on campus. One of the reasons behind the rumors is the new earlier clcsing time of '· the establishment. As of approximately two weeks ago, the Skellar has been closing between 1: 30 and · 2: 00 a.m. regardless of how many peoplE are there or . · on their way in. Director of Food Service Jan Gray has initiated the 1 new closing time as well as ordered a reduction in the · number of student managers and heads. Her reasons for the changes are varied, and S()IIle are un- derstandable and logical. For example, the increased use of non-student managers may reduce the risk of . liability on the part of the student workers as well as · take pressure off students to continue serving beer to • . intoxicated friends. Gray's reasons for the earlier closing time, however, are not as understandable or logical. She · states that the Skellar was originally established as a ''snack bar\ and indicates that she feels a later . closing time promotes drinking and driving. Such circular logic coald also be used to prove that closing · the Skellar earlier drives students to off-campus bars which further promotes drinking and rlriving. This even seems to be a more valid point since most , students don't drive to the Skellar tobegin with. The Skellar, as many of us have found, has . traditionally been a place to meet people, socialize . and relax. Students often go there after a pressure- . filled day of academics, sports, extracurriculars and jobs, in order to release tension and have a good time. Sometimes, this includes having a beer or two. It is easy to understand . the Food Service and Ad- · ministration's position as they do not wa11t to promote excessive drinking. However, it is illogic~! for them to ' conclude that closing after 1:30 a.m. promotes ex- cessive drinking. Union students are adults who work , hard, both in classes and at jobs in ordEr to support their education. As adults, they should be able to decide for themselves when they have had enough to drink, when it is time to go home, and when to go to bed. · The Skellar and the atmosphere it :provides are . important to almost every Union student, past and present. The Administration should try to find other solutions to the drinking and driving pr()olem rather than the illogical one of an early closing time. Those students who are responsible, mature and enjoy the Skellar at late hours are being both unfairly penalized and insulted by this new policy. Student Workers Needed for ReUnion Weekend June8·&9 ,, Students who would like to work during ReUnion Weekend (June 8 and 9), please stop by the Alumni OHice or call Mary at 6168 by Friday, May 18. ReUnion workers will be 11eeded at the following e,ents: Registration at Lamont House, Minerva's Footrace, Junior ReUnion, Alumni Parade, Picnic, Gala-Fest and more. A mandatory meeting of all student workers will be held on Tuesday, May 29 at 4:30 p.m. in the Banquet Room. CONCORDIE'NSIS, Ma;~•/0, 1984 LETTERS Porno.graphy Still An Issu.e To the Editor: I am wtiting regarding the recent article in the May '3 Concordy by a Mr. Beauregard Smith (if there is such a per- son). The Registrar has rio . record of such a student being enrolled at Union, and thus I assume that the pseudonym reflects an unwillingness on someone's part to reveal their identity, which in my judgment, makes Mr. Smith's initials far more interesting. I, too, had hoped that the pornography issue was behind us, but with a brilliant strng of non sequiturs in the guise .of a logical argument, Mr. Smith once again reveals how insensitive · and narrowminded supposedly liberally educated people can be. Mr. Smith misses the issue entirely with his silly references to Civil Rights and freedom. I do not recall anyone advocating taking away the right for anyone to see pornography if they wish. Private parties, \art\ cinemas, etc., are ap- propriate ways to satisfy whatever needs are met by viewing such films. The issue for me is that I do not feel that a college should sanction ex- ploitative, sexist and debasing materials in the name of en- tertainment. To me that runs afoul of everything a college should stand for. Like many, Mr. Smith obviously does not · understand the difference between freedom and lice~e-a subtle distinction apparently lost on Mr. Smith. Freedom impli'es responsibility and the willingness to acc()unt for the consequences of one's behavior as it might impinge on the lives and sensibilities of others. Mr. Smith also fails to realize t}lat the Union community is made up of far mote than the stu~ent body, and also includes the faculty, staff, ad- ministration and their families. Most students are here for four years and then are gone . .Most of the rest of us will be here far longer, and see the campus as the extension of our homes. I do object to bringing my kids on campus and having to· explain ads for pornographic fihps. I also object to the trash that is . placed in my mailbox by people who lack the courage for honest debate. A number of faculty have reported having such materials put in their mailboxes apparently as a joke. The last link in the brilliant logical chain that Mr. Smith develops is his assertion that since SQ many students went to \Wanda\ it is an obvious vote of support for pornography. I suspect that the Colisetnn was packed when they fed Christians to the· lions but I hardly see that as justification. If Mr. Smith sees his argument as compelling, then r would certainly agree with his concern about the education he is receiving at Union. The problem, however, is not faculty who simply· and honestly disagree-with Mr. Smith, but rather I am afraid that · Mr. Smitb has not been· paying attention. \ I do not want Mr. Smith . to think as I do or feel like I do, I only want him to respect .... my rights as I do his. I do not want to limit what he sees or does. I only want to suggest that I do not believe that a college sanctioned committee which represents all of us should show pornographic films. That is not a dictate, it is an opinion. For some reason, Mr. Smith seems to feel that anyone who disagreeswith him is a rigid,up- tight, idiot. In looking at the childish argument he makes I was reminded of a quote that I feel represents· Mr. Smith's po-sition: ''All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others.'' Thank you for the opportunity to express my views. Sincerely, RudyV. Nydegger, Ph.D. Associate Professor& Chair CoC Selection Process Criticized To the Editor: We would like to comment on :vhat we perceive as a problem m the Committee on Com- mittee's process of selection of chairpersons for committees. In past years, the preceding years chairpersons had substantial amounts of input in the selection pr()cess; however, this year the CoC has decided that they wish to have complete control over this choice. The chairperson of a com- mittee has the unique op- portunity to watch and judge the work done for the com- mittee by a potential applicant, and only the chairperson can truly understand what is necessary for the proper run- ning ()f the committee. This can not be judged on the basis of a short application and a fifteen minute interview. It is entirely possible that a person who has done little or nothing for a committee could present themselves in a very favorable light, while a person who has done much for the committee may not interview well. Simply asking chairpersons about their responsibilities is not sufficient. One could argue that a past chairperson's presence at an· interview might make the candidate feel Wlcomfortable should the candidate wish to criticize the actions of :the cur-rent committee. This problem is easily solved by adapting the following system. After interviewing the chair· person(s) of the committee, and r-eceiving their opinion(s) of the applicant, the CoC can then ask tbe applicant if he or she wishes the chairperson to be present at the interview. If he or she does not~ then the chairoerson would All letters· to the editor must be typed ahd sub· mitted by 5 p.m. each Tue.sday before pubHcati· on. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon reouest. not be present. The CoC should make the final decision, but only after hearing the opinions that current chairpersons hold concerning applicants. If the Committee on Com- mittees maintains complete control of selection of chair- persons of student forum committees, then we believe that the quality of Student Activities at Union College will suffer. We urge the Committee on Conunittees, and the Student Forum to a~end this policy. Sincerely, Sarah McMahon and Andrew -Rosen Film Committee · Co- chairpersons Peter Holmes and Marc Keller Social Committee · Co- chairpersons

Page 10 CONCOND!tNS/S, May 10, !984 <itlltlfllfbittt.SiS LETTERS ___ Foundt-d al Unum Collq:t 18?7 Pornography Still An Issue Basis For Rumors? Rumors have been circulating recently about the fate of a beloved campus establishment-the Rathskellar. The Skellar faced some problems last year and .was consequently closed on certain weeknights due to lack of business. This year, however, the Skellar has regained its place as a center of social life on campus. One of the reasons behind the rumors is the new earlier closing time of the establishment. As of approximately two weeks ago, the Skellar has been closing between 1: 30 and 2:00a.m. regardless of how many people are there or on their way in. Director of Food Service Jan Gray has initiated the new closing time as well as ordered a reduction in the ntunber of student managers and heads. Her reasons for the changes are varied, and some are un- derstandable and logical. For example, the increased use of non-student managers may reduce the risk of liability on the part of the student workers as well as ~ake pressure off students to continue serving beer to intoxicated friends. Gray's reasons for the earlier closing time, 1owever, are not as understandable or logical. She states that the Skellar was originally established as a ·'snack bar\ and indicates that she feels a later closing time promotes drinking and driving. Such circular logic could also be used to prove that closing the Skellar earlier drives students to off-campus bars which further promotes drinking and driving. This even seems to be a more valid point since most students don't drive to the Skellar to begin with. The Skellar, as many of us have found, has traditionally been a place to meet people, socialize and relax. Students often go there after a pressure- filled day of academics, sports, extracurriculars and jobs, in order to release tension and have a good time. Sometimes, this includes having a beer or two. It is easy to understand . the Food Service and Ad- ministration's position as they do not want to promote excessive drinking. However, it is illogical for them to conclude that closing after 1:30 a.m. promotes ex- cessive drinking. Union students are adults who work hard, both in classes and at jobs in order to support their education. As adults, they should be able to decide for themselves when they have had enough to drink, when it is time to go home, and when to go to bed. The Skellar and the atmosphere it provides are important to almost every Union student, past and present. The Administration should try to find other solutions to the drinking and driving pr-oblem rather than the illogical one of an early closing time. Those students who are responsible, mature and enjoy the Skellar at late hours are being both unfairly penalized and insulted by this new policy. Student Workers Needed for ReUnion Weekend June 8 & 9 Students who would like to work duri.ng ReUnion Weekend (June 8 and 9), please stop by the Alumni OHice or call Mary at 6168 by Friday, May 18. ReUnion workers will be needed at the following events: Registration at lamont House, Minerva's Footrace, Junior ReUnion. Alumni Parade, Picnic, Gala-Fest and more. A mandatory meeting of all student workers will be held on Tuesday, May 29 at 4:30 p.m. in the Banquet Room .. To the Editor: I am writing regarding the recent article in the May \3 Concordy by a Mr. Beauregard Smith (if there is such a per- son). The Registrar has no record of such a student being enrolled at Union, and thus I assume that t!;Je pseudonym reflects an unwiHingness on someone's part to reveal their identity, which in my judgment, makes Mr. Smith's initials far more interesting. I, too, had hoped that the pornography issue was behind us, but with a brilliant strng of non sequiturs in the guise of a logical argument, Mr. Smith or:tce again reveals how insensitive and narrowminded supposedly liberally educated pe0ple can be. Mr. Smith misses the issue entirely with his silly references to Civil Rights and freedom. I do not recall anyone advocating taking away the right for anyone to see pornography if they wish. Private parties, \art\ cinemas, etc., are ap- propriate ways to satisfy whatever needs are met by viewing such films. The issue for me is that I do not feel that a college should sanction ex- ploitative, sexist and debasing materials in the name of en- tertainment. To me that runs afoul of everything a college should staml for. Like many, Mr. Smith 0bviously does not · understand the difference between freedem and license-a subtle distinction apparently lost on Mr. Smith. Freedom implies responsibility and the willingness to account for the consequences of one's behavior as it might impinge on the lives and sensibilities of others. Mr. Smith also fails t0 realize that the Union community is made up of far more than the student body, and also includes the faculty, staff, ad- ministration. and their families. Most students are here for four years and then are gone. Most of the rest of us will be here far longer, and see the campus as the extension of our homes. I do object to bringing my kids on campus and having to explain ads for pornographic fil.rns. I also object to the trash that is placed in my mailbox by people who lack the courage for honest debate. A number of faculty have reported 11aving such materials put in their mailboxes apparently as a joke. The last link in the brilliant logical chain that Mr. Smith develops is his assertion that since so many students went to \Wanda\ it is an obvious vote ef support for pornography. I suspect that the Coliseum was packed when they fed Christians to the lions but I hardly see that as justification. If Mr. Smith sees his argument as compelling, then I would certainly agree with his concern about the education he is receiving at Union. The problem, however, is not faculty who simply and honestly disagree with Mr. Smith, but rather I am afraid that Mr. Smith has not been paying attention. I do not want Mr. Smith to think as I do or feel like I do, I only want him to respecL my rights as I do his. I do not want to limit what he sees or does. I only want to suggest that I do not believe that a college sanctioned committee which represents all of us should show pornographic films. That is not a dictate, it is an opinien. For some reason, Mr. Smith seems to feel that anyone who disagrees with him is a rigid, up- tight, idiot. In looking at the childish argument he makes I was reminded of a quote that I feel represents Mr. Smith's posit ion: ''All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others.\ Thank you for the opportunity to express my views. Sincerely, Rudy V. Nydegger, Ph.D. Associate Professor & Chair CoC Selection Process Criticized To the Editor: We would like to comment on what we perceive as a problem in the Committee on Com- mittee's process of selection of chairpersons for committees. In past years, the preceding years chairpersons had substantial amounts of input in the selection process; however, this year the CoC has decided that they wish to have complete control over this choice. The chairperson of a com- mittee has the unique op- portunity to watch and judge the work done for the com- mittee by a potential applicant, and only the chairperson can truly understand what is necessary for the proper run- ning of the committee. This can not be judged on the basis of a short application and a fifteen minute interview. It is entirely possible that a person who has done little or nothing for a committee could present themselves in a very favorable light, while a person who has done much for the c.ommittee may not interview well. Simply asking chairpersons about their responsibilities is not sufficient. One could argue that a past chairperson's presence at an interview might make the candidate feel uncomfortable should the candidate wish to critiCize the actions of the current committee. This problem is easily solved by adopting the following system. After interviewing the chair- person(s) of the committee, and receiving their opinion(s) of the applicant, the CoC can then ask the applicant if he or she wishes the chairperson to be present at the interview. If he or she does not. then the chairperson would All letters· to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday before publicati· on. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon reguest. not be present. The CoC should make the final decision, but only after hearing the opinions that current chairpersons hold concerning applicants. If the Committee on Com- mittees maintaiiJS complete control of selection of chair- persons of student forum committees, then we believe that the quality of Student Activities at Union College will suffer. We urge the Conunittee on Committees, and the Student Forum to amend this policy. Sincerely, Sarah McMahon and Andrew Rosen Film Committee Co- chairpersons Peter Holmes and Marc Keller Social Committee Co- chairpersons i '1 l ··~ I ' ' l

CONCORDJENSIS, May 10, 1984 Page 11. Junior Expresses Job Concern To the Editor: As a junior m~joring in the Liberal Arts who soon plans to enter the job market, I was quite disturbed .to read. the letter that appeared under the title ''More Recruitment Needed\ that appeared in last week's ConcordieQsis. The issues the letter brings up are good ones and I only hope something is done to rectify the · situation before it .is too late for my class, also. Much like the author of the letter, I have also attended Career Observation Days and workshops run by the Career Development Center (CDC). I found these to be enjoyable and quite informative about dif .. ferent occupations. However, I was always under the assumption that these were merely a prelude to on-campus recruiting which would finally result In the inevitable goal-a job. As the situation now stands, I can only asswne that the CDC expects students to go out on their own looking for em- ployment once they have acquired the necessary jof>. hunting skills. This approach is very impractical for the following reasons. First of all, seniors having to write a thesis, attend regular classes, and fulfill all other outside responsibilities have little time to go on tripsto major metropolitan areas looking fQr employment. Also, there is the cost of travel (especially if one does not own a cat), food, and possible lodging. This last point is especially relevant to me since I come from a rural area where job opportunities . are scarce. To try and \establish myself\ in an area in which I am not familiar w:ithout having a job first is not very appealing to someone who has just spent over $12,000-year for an education. As for ,on-campus interviews, they offer many positive factors in addition to the most obvious one-they are a direct link to possible employment. To begin with, interviews help prepare one for more of the same out- side of the campus. Also, they are extraordinarily more convenient for ful'l-time residential studehtsjor reasons stated above and one can be assured that all companies that do visit the campus have at least some job openings or they would not bother to send a recrUiter in the first place. In conclusion, I can only hope that this letter will motivate those who have the power to \straighten out\ the present philosophy at the CDC and assign at least one person in that office to go out full-time to cities like Boston and New York and encourage recruiters to visit Union as much as com- parable schools. I do not think this is asking for too much, especially since one of CDC Director Joanne Tobiessen's goals in assuming her present position last spring was to spend \much of her time contacting businesses and employers and encouraging them to consider Liberal Arts students . . . \ (Concordiensis, April 7, 1983) A Concerned Student Transportation Provided to Clambake To the Editor: Sigma Chi's Sixteenth Annual Charity Clambake and Derby Day is this Saturday, May 12, at the Girling Center. As the Clambake Chairmen we deem it necessary to inform the College community' of the free tran- sportation being provided for your convenience on the day of \The Bake.\ In compliance with Union College's and our standard policy, we are offering free bus service departing from Car- negie Hall at fifteen minute. intervals., commencing at 12:30 p.m. and ending at 6:30 p.m. This bus service is not mandatory. If you would rather drive to the Girling Center, do so but with extreme caution. We ask the College community to take advantage of the tran- sportation p:t;'ovided. Have a safe and enjoyable day. See you at \The Bake!\ Thank you, Michael R. Brice Richard P. Callanan Clambake Chairmen Protest A Success To the Editor: The Jewish Student Union would like to thank the students who participated in the protest of Dr. Clovis Maksoud and his sponsorship _under the Anwar Sadat Peace Lectureship. In a!ldition, ·we would like to thank security for their cooperation. The students of Union are concerned with the academic integrity of the college. It is our hope that as a resttlt of the demonstration the ad- ministration will take more care in the future in who they select to present before the campus and under what pretext this presentation manifests itself. Respectfully, JSU Did the Protestors Prove A Point? To the Editor: On Monday night during Dr. Maksoud's lecture in Memorial Chapel a group of Union students who were involved in the protest prior to the lecture walked out of the lecture after the first ten minutes. These protestors obviously felt that they would prove a point by walking out. In fact, though, they only -showed their un· willingness to listen to the other side of the Middle EaSt issue. Are they so sure ·Of themselves that they need not hear what others have to say on the issue? Dr. Maksoud said that they must be afraid of hearing the \truths\ that he had to say. My question here is why the protestors chose to walk out of the lecture instead of listening to him and then questioning him on the issues that they find to be controversial. If Dr. Maksoud is a propagandist, then he should have been shown to be one. Earlier that day there was also a news conference attended by students, reporter$, and faculty members. But, none of the protestors wer~ there. Once again I ask them if they are so confident in themselves that they need not question an authority on the issue? Those who are not willing to hear the other side of the issue tend to prolong conflicts such as that in the Middle East. In the future I would hope that protests and demonstrations will be conducted in a more constructive and less rude manner. Sincerely, Daphne Chigas Explaitation Requested, To the Editor: I am not writing this letter to criticize the views or speech of Ambassador Clovis Maksoud. I am also not writing to deny the right of any individual to speak at Vnion.In . fact, I . found the Ambassador's lectUl\e to be quite interesting and in- formative, despite .my op- position to his views. I am writing With one specific aim. I request that the Department of History publicly defend (in Concordiensis would be appropriate) its invitation to Maksoud after he refused to allow the name of Sadat Peace Lectureship to be used in conjunction. with his talk. I believe that the college com- , munity is entitled to !ID ex- planation· or . some. . kin.d of response on this sensttlve ISsue. Respectfully, Dave Marin '86 ·· ·Rooms /Apts. Wanted for Summer . College students from throughout the c·ountry wi II be at General Electric Corporate Research and Development this summer for a technical internship program and are in need of ~ummer housing .. Please call Phyllis Martinez at 385-8164 COMMENTARIES Another View On Selection By BEAUREGUA~D SMITH I have to laugh at the people · crying about their not being · selected as Orientation Advisors for next year's in· coming freshman Class. My only suggestion to them is to get a real idea about life and how our, as well as anyone else's . system of selection works. You · are lucky we are not in Great •: Britain where you last name is • more important than your abilities. Or how about a communist country where if ' you are not a devote follower , · and become a member of the communist party a~ a young age . there is no way that you could . ever climb the ladder of success through intelligence and per- severance alone. In selecting a person for any · job one must realize that people making the decisions will always favor their . friends or people they know better over people they do not know or people they would rather not deal with .. If a person, such as any member of the Orientation Committee, has to choose between one person or another they will usually choose that person who they believe will best carry out the prescribed duties of the position for which they are interviewing for. So if that person is a friend, or a fraternity brother-sorority sister, or a relative, then they might pick that person because they know how they can deal with other people or handle a stressful situation. In the case of a person they do not know or have never heard anything about, then they would ob- viously trust their own con- fidence in the person that they do know something about. How many times have friends spoken up for you and chosen you over another equally qualified person for the same position? Probably more times than you can imagine. If you are going to play by the rules, then you must also abide by their results. If things do not go your way do not start crying after the fact. Would you have written the same article complaining about the Orientation Com- mittee's selection process if you had been .selected as an '84-'85 Orientation Advisor? Probably not. I also love the proposal which would require all of those students who are interested in becoming an O.A. submit a Contributors wr-itten application to the Committee. This would be similar to the appUcatien process one must go through to be a part .of a governmental committee. The proposal sowuls great on paper' but it will never work. O.A.s must deal with people on a personal level. If it is the decision of the Orientation Committee that one person has this ability over the next person who does not, even though the ()ther pe~son might have a higher G .P .A., might be on a var-sity sports team, might have held a ,position on the Student Fonnn since Freshman year, anti-or might be the President of llis-her fraternity-sorority, then tile Committee is correct in favoring the first person l>ecause they are better qualified for the job. An impersonal written ap- plication might be sufficient criteria for the selection of a person to fill an administrative job where intelligence and the ability to get the job done is mor-e important then the ability to deal with other people. But an ().A. represents this school. Tb.ey are the first people (maybe next to roommates) who the Freshman meet and deal with, and thus it is vitally important to give those students the best impression possible regardless of the O.A. 's in- telligence or other extra- curricular actlvities. · ·This proposal would be like me applying to become .a violinist with the Boston Symphony Orchestra through · the simple channel of a writtep application. I would be stupid to think that I would just have to fill ()Ut an application and hope I would get the job. I would probably be required to play in fr-ont of a panel of musical judges who would give me or n()t give me the job judging upon my playing ability and not upon my ability to bullshit my way through a written essay. Grow 11p and learn how to deal with the situations we all face in life because we are all rejected on<!e in a while~ Once you pass thro~~g!J. those gates and leave Union College only to return as an Alumnus, you will have to face much more rigorous and diffic:ult processes of selection. If y()u don't succeed at first, leam what you did wrong, learn how you can correct your own sitmtion .in order to succeed the next time, and try try again. to the Idol may have their works returned by Joan GoHiib: • contact1ng 370-6573· The Student Forum would like to extend an invitation to the Candicla1es for Student Forum Pres.ident to deba1e today, Thur- sday, May 1Oth, at 4:30 p .. m. in 55016. The entire campus community is encouraged to attend. ·.~ . \

Page l2 CONCORDJEJVS/5: May 10, 1984 FEATURES A Preference For lliegal Pot (CPS)-Most college students now opp()se legalizing marijuana, a new survey of st1:1dent attitudes has found. Two out of every three college students oppose the legalization 'lf marijuana, Newsweek On Campus discovered in a survey of some 500 students nation- wide. Tn a compara'ble college sutvey taken in 1975, 52 percent of the American college student body favored legalizjng use of the drug. N()w, 52 percent of 1984's students have used marijupna. In 1979, the nurhber was 64 percent. tinue to show higher levels of drug use for some time, Adams says, today's students use illegal substances in a more restrained, less frequent way, even though many of them. may have grown up seeing their parents use drugs. Overa:ll, marijuana use reached its high point in 1979, Adams says, when 39 percent of the Americans in the liJ..to-25 age group reported they were currently using marijuana. By 1982, the last year for which statistics are available, that figure had dropped to 27 percent. . Over halfof the students who use ~t or other dru&s do so for fun and recreation, the new Newsweek On Campus survey shows. Thirty-two percent of the respondents use drugs to relax, and 20percent ''to be sociable at parties.\ says. Adams believes cocaine is too ---~~pensive for students to use regularly. Indeed, the Newsweek On Campus survey found that sixty-e:ight percent of the students surveyed say they don't spend any money to 'get their drugs. Twenty.:two percent .of :the students spend under $25 a month, and fewer than seven percent sp~nd more than $25 a month. Twelve percent of the students have worried about being too dependent on nar- cotics. Students in the Midwest are most opposed to legalization,....72 percent~while only 56 percent of the students in the West oppose legalizing pot, the survey found. Humo·r- Social Security By MATINANKIN Senior Writer One of the most serious problems thiS country faces into the 21st century will be the future of our social security system. The problem is that there are too many elderly people and not enough workers to support them. Just this week, Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan was quoted· saying that the Goverilment should \rethink'' social security and that \at some cutoff point we should ask why a person . . . should receive anything.\ At this time, I would like to propose that the elderly simply work for their benefits in a way that will help make this country a better place for all of us. There are many jobs to be done- • -and it is the nation's old people with so much time on their hands that are just the ones to do it! ! Let me cite just three areas where \Gray Power\ can be put to good use. l. IMMIGRATION......:Every year hundreds of thousands of Mexicans illegally emigrate into the U.S. partially due to the lack of border patrol guards. It is these illegals who take jobs away from honest hard-working Ameriean citizens. I propose that tiny shacks be built throughout the southwestern part of the country where ar- med senior citizens may stay -and stop any illegal crossings by simply \firing away.\ \'Ihat information is com- parable with our field studies find high school surveys which mdicate drug use is declining in the younger population,\ says Edgar Adams w1th the National Institute on Drug Abuse ( NIDA) in Washington, D.C. Students are using far fewer drugs than their counterparts of the late sixties . and early seventies, Adams says, primarily .because ·Of the health hazards associated with frequent use. College may even cause students to use fewer drugs, according to the study. Eighty .percent of the students say they started using drugs before entering college. Over 60 percent of the students say they use fewer drugs than before coming t\> campus. Against Torture 2. TAXEs-Millions of tax- payers annually miss the April 15 filing deadline ·for their federal tax returns. Because of thi~, the federal government is delayed in collecting millions of tax dollars. I propose that approximately one month before the filing deadline senior· citizens be placed ·ight in the homes of previous tax delinquents to constantly remind them to \pay up\ or be nagged to death. \The perceived harmfulness of marijuana use is increasing. Sixty-three percent of the high sch()ol students surveyed last year said there was great risk in smoking marijuana regularly, compared to only 35 p~rcent who felt that way in 1978,\ he notes. Although the generation that made drugs popular during the sixties and seventies will con- Satire: Yet, excluding alcohol and cigarettes, marijuana is still the drug of choice on campus, followed by cocaine, bar- biturates, amphetamines, l.SD, PCP, and heroin. Cocaine's rise in popularity may simply mean more people have tried the drug, not necessarily that more people are using it regularly, Adams Torture is a topic which is not talked about. At the very least it is studied as a part of history. But, torture is a reality today. Most people are not aware that torture,. cruel and inhumane punishment, is actively com- mitted in nearly 100 countries each year. It is a problem that the world tends to close its eyes to and ignore. No Show Po r·ents Amnesty International has recently implemented a two year campaign against torturE. Its purpose is to raise people's awareness of acts of torture which are being committed around the world. The Union College chapter of Amnesty International along with campus chapters across the nation have each been assigned a specific case where torture has been allegedly committed. The campus groups are asked to bring the plight of their specific prisoner to the attention of their campus community along with the general public and the responsible government. By STEVE GLAZER Inthe beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. And tbis was go()d, or at least O.K. On the third day though, he was called away to Buffalo on bllbiness, and thus left the rest of t:he world in the hands of his brother Murray. Murray was a nice enough guy, but was a little on the dense side. Flush with the excitement of the power that his brother left in his hands, Murray cisobeyed his orders and started to piay around with the creation machine. Thus may parents carne into existence. Not quite Adam and Eve, my Mom and Dad made a few little mistakes, and on the eighth day I was born. My childhood was like that of any other kid, filled with ritual beatings, a bread and water diet, and a Capital Di.strict education. All in all, my psychiatrist says I have ad· justed well, and in a few years 1 if the arms race continues, every one will look like me. Anyway, to continue the story, the \iRkblot\ and \identify the noise\ and \tell me wben the cigarette goes out\ tests were all going well until my parents informed me they were not going to come up for Parents Weekend. I was broken. The symptoms began to show. My mouth began to foam, and I kept asking my friends to go to Cohoes and to Jack's in Albany witb me. Worse still, I had visions of having to go to the President's reception in Jackson's Garden (Hale House in the event of rain) and see \The Big Chill\ all by myself. As it turned out, the weekend wash't so bad. A family from Long Island with 2.3 kids, 1 dog and six Cadillacs took me out to dinner both nights. They even took me to Cohoes (although I had to pay for the Compliment Jeans). And best of all I didn't have to clean my room, explain the significance of my hoop earring, or account for all of the psychedelic posters on my walls. I guess I can reflect on the weekend and use it as a learning experience. Did anybody ever tell you that you ca.nnot put a price tag on love? Well, you can. My parents told me that they loved me, but not as much as the $2B9 for an airplane ticket. That puts me at two hundred and eighty-eigbt bucks. Any offers? Union College's Amnesty chapter has been assigned the case of Vladmir Khailo, a Baptist from the Ukranian Republic of the. Soviet Union. He, because of practicing his religious beliefs and attempting to emigrate, has been forcibly confined and subjected to treatment with powerful anti· psychotic drugs. This cr11el form of torture has lasted f()r three years and his health is Do you w.ant to work Camp Union? - Sign-ups for shifts will be on Thurs .. / May lOth at 4:30 p.m. in·strauss and 7:30p.m. in Carnegie Lobby Help out and have fun!! reported as \very poor.\ In conjunction with the Amnesty International worldwide campaign and the Union case of Vladimir Khailo, the Union Amnesty chapter has declared the week of May 14 \Torture Awareness Week\ at Union College. A series of events to make the campus community aware of the existence of torture in the world today has been planned: Monday, May 14, Film: \Your Neighbor's Son: The Making of a Torturer,\ 8:00 p.m., Strauss Lounge. Tuesday, May 15, Letter Campaign, Carnegie Hall. Wednesday, May 16, Prof. Sharlet speaking on a torture related topic, 8:00p.m., Strauss Lounge. Thursday, May 17, Letter Campaign, Carnegie Hall. Mon.-Fri., May 14-18, Display case on Torture Today, Basement, Schaeffer Library. Torture is a modern day problem which receives little attention. Amnesty Inter- national is hoping to make this atrocious problem an issue which students are aware of so that we may aid in ending this cruel mistreatment of our fellow man. VOTE ON FRIDAY 3. TRANSPORTATION~The 55 mile per hour speed limit is frequently violated on highways and byways all across America. This speeding directly causes more traffic fatalities and in- creases automobile gas con- sumption. I propose that senior citizens be placed at precarious spots directly on the highway to ensure that the speed limit is not exceeded. The average motorist will almost definitely slow down to avoid hitting an elderly person in his travel lane. Although some might balk at these cruel, Orwellian, governmental ideas, let us remember that in times of fiscal restraint we must all \pitch in\ and do what we can to help out our country. FALL TERM Images Of The Sea (Liberal Learning 55-F) • Live on an island off the coast of Maine. • Orientation Meeting: Monday, May · 14, 4:30 p.m., Science & Engineering· Center, RoomS301. ADP Annual Porch PARTY Saturday 2: 00-Eve. Come bake in the Sun! Net Weight oancin9 & Big Feachets A~ LIVE Q~ t?q (!~

'Big Brothers- B • s·. 19 1sters RIVERSIDE AMUSEMENT PARK. T-RIP-SUNDAY, MAY'20 'Tr-ansporl;~;ttion, admission, lunch and rides are provided. This trip is sponsored by the Executive Committee :of Union CoHeg-e Big Brothers-Big Sisters. -AU Union Coll.ege Big Brothers-Big Sisters and their Little Brotners~Little Sisters are invited. This is our major trip of the ye~r and has always been very enJoyable. We have limited spaee on the bus, so please make your reservations early. Call our office (374-4523) and reserve your seats. APPRECIAl'ION PARTY Brothers-Big Sisters would like to show our ap- preciation to the volunteers and the l}\n!on C~llege faculty and adm1mstratron for their dedicated service and support. You are cordially invited to an Appreciation Party, May .22 4:00,():00 p.m., Strauss Lounge. SENIOR BIG BROTHERS-BIG SISTERS This is an especially hard time for your Little Brothers- Little Sisters. It is important to discuss your graduation with them. They need to hear from you , that your friendship will contmue and you will keep in touch with them. I will be set· ting up case conferences with you this month to prepare for your graduation. . ····::·-··· :· ' .CONCORDIENSIS, May 10, 1984 PageZ3 FEATURES Cclreers: Your First Job ByTOMWIU. Career Assistant So, you have or are going to get a great job, with a great company, with great pay. You'll probably move quickly up the corporate ladder and into the ~ard ~oom. Eventually, you wtll rettre with a good pension and a handsome gold watch. Right? . Probably not. Chances are the first job is somewhat of ~ disappointment because most students hold unrealistic notions of what their job should be like. In many cases the \real life\ seems like ~ let down, and the entry level job, a demotion. Many entry level graduates become disappointed at the job prospects, some so severely that they ref~e to accept an entry level position because they feel it is demeaning. In the past five years, about 70 percent of liberal. arts and: social science graduates and about 30 percent of all technical graduates have not found work in their field of study. There is just ~ excess of degreed talent that keeps the sought-after, high-:paying jobs scarce. Not many students are lucky enough to . get a job that is directly related to their career. Unfortunately, the liberal arts and social science majors make up a large proportion of those who cannot find a directly related job. The liberal arts and social science majors should not, however, make the mistake of only accepting employment that directly relates to their major. It is the liberal arts and social science major's broader, Blore transferrable skills, such. as -reasoning ability, research experience, and oral and written communications skills, that makes them flexible in the job market. These skills can be utilized in a multitude of various career oriented positions. The liberal arts and social science majors should not narrow themselves down to a Specific short term career objective for they may in essence narrow themselves out of the entry level position market. Today's long tenn career development is no longer focused on the first job for it seems that most graduates leave their first company within the first three years. Indeed, two typical courses of action taken by recent graduates have been noted by experts. The graduate either takes a position he or she hates and quits in a few months, ot stays for a promotion or two and then quits because the ad- vancements come too slowly. The trend is becoming quite clear though; the first job just d<>esn't matter that much any more. Recent studies support this philosophy. Studies have shown that many students take positions with the intent of jwnping ship at the first sign of a better opportunity, with most leaving within three years. In any case, one should not downgrade the importance of the first job. It is the graduate's first opportunity to prove themselves in the working world, make long lasting contacts, develop extremely important business skills, and th~ first job serves as a starting pomt that any career objective can be built on. Because the first job is important, the student should devote much time and consideration to the search. All possibilities should be explored. Students should be flexible in what they are willing to consider and explore em- ployment areas they may never have considered. The alter- natives may be surprisingly interesting. The key is to not be narrow-minded; have some options open .. As far as salaries go, the graduate should get an idea of starting salaries. Though it may be disappointing to learn, salary is not · based on kn'Owledge, and the $12,000 starting salary is not un- common. However, it may be cornfovting to know that the salary offered is the going rate and not a reflection of worth: Remember, the first job is important. It is the first real experience in the working world and serves as a steppingstone to . career advancement. Just recall that success no longer hinges on the first job and that the first job is not necessarily the last. (Information taken from the Wall Street .Journal's National Bus~ess Employment Weekly. Sprmg 1984 College Career Edition.) Concordy .Elections FOR Editor- in-chief May.22 . Concordy Office All candidates must have their · ·names with Mrs. Marm in Stude11t Activities Office br .5)21(84.

- 0 ::> a::: 0.1 \in V) 0.1 .., >- .0 0 .,_ 0 .c: 0. >- ~ \' c: E ttl ::.! >- 1.- I.- ttl .J >- .0 0 +- 0 ..c: 0. Page 14 THE ARTS .... ; ~~·:.:·,=:.~ ' ' . .- \Arts Festival '84\- La Primavera Senior [)ani Raphael bid farewell to the Cabaret Stage last Saturday evening during Parents' Weekend. As usual, Dani was excellent\ and her talents will certainly be missed. Also appearing last weekend were Jim Havard and Luke Fannon, the juggling M.C. - CONCORDIENSJS, May 10, 1984 . - - '\ Parents' Weekend Events- A Festival\ ·of the Arts By BRIAN LAUX Arts Editor Memorial Chapel is humming with anticipation, the near ca.pacity crowd anxiously awaiting the start of \Arts Festival '84.\ The crowd is a fair mixture of parents, students aml frtends. As the f.inal checks -on the sound system are completed and the- opening act is readied to beg-in, Mary Carrol of the Arts Club announces the opening of the show. The band onstage begins a lively musical number which sets the tone for the rest of the performance-the movements within the tune are smooth and clean and the tempo varies from fast to slow and then back again. In essence, this is an accurate foreshadowing of what is yet to come: As the band completes its ,opening number several members of the club rush onstage to assist in the movement of the equipment ... The Dance Club then took the stage and began a warm-up to the accompaniment of Marc Steingesser on the piano, and this was followed by a dance performed by Tricia Allen and Tricia Pasqualini. It was beautifully choreographed by both girls and done to the song \The Body Electric\ from Fame. The next act was a \Sonata for Two Flutes, Adagio and Allegro (Temp Vivo).\ This was coupled with another song \Tangerello\ (written by Union's own Melissa Beth Gruen) and performed by Joann Berger, Sarah Carpenter and Karen Stash. The two flute melodies were quite different, the first having a Renaissance flavor to it and the second having a more modern feeling- a slightly faster tempo in a melody which w~nded its way through from start to finish, almost as though it was following some sort of winding road. \Just Because\ and '\'Hefraction\ were the two dance acts which followed. The first was choreographed and performed by Susan Cohen to \Lady Jane\ by the Rolling Stones. It was a beautiful light- hearted dance characterized by various warm movements and jwnps which fully utilized the stage. The second. was choreographed by Michelle Manley and danced ·by Michelle and Randi Bell. This dance was more provocative, done to Spyrogyro's ''Catching the Sun\ and characterized 'by swiveling body moves. The next act was another dance club effort choreographed by Susan Cohen and danced by six members of the club. The dance entitled \Time for Fun\ was .performed to \Honky Tonk Woman,\ another Rolling Stones tune. It was a synchronized exercise in which the dancers often split into groups of two or three and which incorporated some moves similar to those of a square dance, whirling circular motions with joined. arms or hands. This was followed by another song \Sonata in F, Opus 24, Allegro\ by Beethoven. It was very nicely done by Howard Fiedler on violin and Lisa Frattiani on piano. ''In the Air\ was another synchronized dance that used slightly more complex movements such as in- tertwiniilg body moves and rolls. The dance was snperbly choreographed by Susan Cohen and danced by Trieia Allen, Susan Cohen, Lynda Richards and Betsy Stein. The action kept moving and changing pace with the music. Three musical numbers and one dance act provided the rest of the action before the finale. The first of these was mysterious and intriguing melody on flute and piano, with a kind of classical \Mission Impossible\ feel to it. This was performed by Joann Berger and Dianne Pavacic on flute and piano re~:;pectively. Etude Opus 10, N.o. 9 Allegro Molto Agitate, provided the audience with the thrill of witnessing some ·fan- tastic classical piano. Scott Dexter amazed the audience with an emotional and technically excellent per- formance. Glenn Wogalther provided another treat on piano with· a rendition of his own composition (\Untitled\) . The song was a jazzy up-tempo com.position which moved from a New Orleans Ragtime to a boogie-woogie style. A colorful dance. number choreographed and costumed and danced by Meredith Auten, Lynda Richards and Karen Wytrawl was placed into the space between Scott Dexter and Glenn Wogalther. This was a toe-dance and was most beautiful to the eye because of its flowing movements and colors and its mm;ic (Vivaldi's Concerto in D Major). . The finale was a joint effort of both clubs, choreographed and . arranged by Melissa Beth Gruen. The performers, clad in red and black ragtime costumes and scattered all about the stage gave life to, as the banner which provided the backdrop proclaimed, \A Ragtime Two- Step composed by Scott Joplin.\ The entire festival was delightful and was run with great ease and success. It was obviously the product of hard work, skill and creativity on the part of all involved. Money's Worth the Money By ':rOD DIMMICK Arts Staff The Ullion College Concert CommitteE will present this Sunday its final fling before Camp Union. Eddie Money is perhaps ome of the best known . <h It) 0 ..c: .~ z _,_: V') <II <II '0 c: ro.- 0:: >- .0 • 0 .... 0 ~ ..c: 0. singers in the realm of rock and roll to come to Union. With easily recognizable and well · known music, Money should attract a large audience this Sunday. Eddie Money has made 5 albums in the past seven years, .. Eddie Money to appear at Proctor's; Sunday, May 13: ·which isn't so unusual. What is unusual is that two of these albums have gone gold and another has gone platinum, and Money is still running strong. Before his most recent album, Wbere's The Party?, he finished a seven month tour that was successful enough to give-him a reputation as one of tbe most _ popular rock singers in the country. In his' first four albums, he wrote a number of songs that built his reputation as a solid producer of great music. Of the past albums, probably his most popular albums are Eddie Money, with \Baby Hold On\ and ''Two Tickets to ·Paradise;\ and the more recent album No Control, with the songs \Shakin'' and \Think I'm in Love.\ His newest album, Where's The Party? (1983) hasn't had much publicity yet, but promises to be a success. With such songs as \BadGirls\ and \Back on the Road,\ Eddie Money continues his emotional and powerfUl rock ·and roll. His concerts have been energetic and outrageous, and this Sunday at Proctor's shoUld be no exception. The Dutch Pipers on Memo~ial Chapel steps. WEEKE·NDS escape from the other five. per night Relax by our health club with indoor pool and exercise' room. For complete detailsf give us a call. Then escape to our Ramada- where we've got a new world for you. RAMADA®·INN 450 Nott Stree.t, SCHENECTADY, NY (518) 370-7151 The .A TheBt spectacu Patricia 21. · Patr star attr andher1 Ib Andel York Ci Berkshir night pe formanc celebrati Week a1 McBride known d with aniJ as well. Herda1 the Schoc where sl apprentic theatres Ballet. Fi began as~ dancer fa Ballet in overn Choreo~ Balanchir bins have roles for l: has enabl• all areas 1 more tha danced in !I.Nr ~ ~ rn H

CONCORDIENSJS. May 10, 1984 PagelS THE ARTS ,. . . ·-- The Berkshire Bacllet ••• A Night On The town ByTOD DIMMICK Arts Staff The Berkshire Ballet made a spectacular combination with Patricia McBride Friday, April 21. Patricia McBride was the star attraction of the show. She and her partner, the well .. known Ib Andersen, both of the New York City Ballet, joined the Berkshire Ballet for this one night pedormance. The per- formance is part of the celebration of National Dance Week at Proctor's. Patricia McBride is one of the most well known dancers in the nation, ' with an international reputation as well. Her dance education began at the School of American Ballet where she performed as an apprentice dancer to several theatres as well as the NYC Ballet. Finishing school, she began as the youngest principal dancer for the New York City Ballet in 1961, winning almost overnight fame. Choreographers George Balanchine and Jerome Rob- bins have both written starring roles for her. Her flexible talent has enabled McBride to excel in all areas of ballet. A few of the more than 75 ballets she has danced in include \Afternoon of a Faun,\ \The Nutcracker,\ \Tarantella and \Coppelia.\ She has danced at the Stravinsky Festival of 1972 and with the Paris Opera Ballet. Her appearances before several presidents and also on the Ed Sullivan Show have served to enhance her growing reputation. Ih Andersen, McBride's partner, also deserves at- tention. Andersen has worked with the New York City Ballet for four years. A native of Denmark, he danced leading roles with ·the Royal Danish Ballet before being invited to join the New York City Ballet. Ib Andersen started his dance career at the age of seven at the Royal Danish Ballet School. At the age of seventeen he played his first leading role for the Royal Danish Ballet. He has danced leading roles in such well-known ballets as \Swan Lake,\ \The Nutcracker,\ and \Romeo and Juliet.\ Perhaps a good indication of his popularity was his performance at the 1981 Tchaikovsky Festival where he danced so much that, according to Time Magazine, the festival should have been called the \Ib Andersen Festival.\ The Berkshire Ballet was a major part of the performance at Proctor's. The choreography, $~!1-A •• PHONES: 372-7270 ~ -·~ ..:. . PillA f'~~ ~ UYitU -s _, ~ SPASIEm I PIZZERIA I 370-:3735 COR. UNION S7'FtEET 8c VAN ANTWERP RD. SCHENECTADY, N, Y. HOME STYLE PIZZA FEATURING ORDERS TO TAKE OUT dancing and enthusiasm of the company showed that they were worth seeing. In fact, they may not have 'been given credit for being as good as they were. The company performed several works that, in my admittedly inexpert opinion, were, at least as enjoyable as the works of Patricia McBride and Ib Andersen. Most notable was a work entitled, \Autumn into Winter,\ set to great piano solos by George Winston. An en- chanting work, dancers in the brown and orange of autumn swirled through the subdued light like so many fall leaves. The enthusiasm and skill of the company shone through in this piece. It was in \Autumn into Winter\ as well as the playful \Little Improvisations,\ that the dancers really started to move, after a slow start in \Premiere.\ . As for ·McBride and Ander- sen, their most interesting dance was probably \Apollo a sensual and graceful duet. The emotions contained in them- selves material for success with the audience. Patricia McBride and Ib Andersen are known quantities and undeniably worth seeing. As for the Berkshire Ballet, they are still on the rise after existing for 25 years. . -' ./ '' Patricia McBride at Proctor's Mountebanks Nest Mountebanks, Union Burdman as Ma:dini; Jim College's student dramatic Cristo as Ruckly; Andre organization, will present \One Enceneat as Chief Bromden; Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\ Doug Langholz as Dale Har- May 17-26 in the Nott Memorial. ding; James Marshall as Billy Perfof1llances begin at 8 p.m. Bibbit; Nina Mogilnik as Aide each night but the 25th when the Williams; Lora Nelson as play begins at 7 p.m. Candy Starr; Melinda Phillips \One Flew Over the Cuckoo's as Aide Warren; Diane Sadak Nest\ is a play in two acts by as Nurse Ratshed; Paul Seline Dale Wasserman based on the as Dr. Spivey; Eric Swann as novel by Ken Kesey, and is a Scanlon; Steve Strunsky as study of insanity. R.P. McMurphy; Kerrie Adam Storke will direct. Ticknor as Nurse Flinn; John Tickets will be on sale begin- Tierney as Cheswick; 'and Alex ning May 7 at the Nott Whatley as Aide Turkle. Memorial Box: Offi~e. State manager is Barry Performing will be Shauna Smith. Set and lights will be Bavar as Sandra; Stephan done by Steve Boone . .....•.......•.....••.. , i WING WAGON I I ~-...: ~:-;} I I~ ·.. . Jl?~l-J:~ . . I 1 ,~· ..... ~ ~··\.''·~~-~~;ft ... , ... 821 McClellan Street I I f\J- · ·· ::P 09 Schenectady I I 's; . Jallalo St$7le 1 'Cblcken W1Dg3 1 I Monday..;Thursday ttam-lam I 1 Friday-Saturday 11am-2:00am I 1 Sunday 12pm-12am I ~ ' Order By Phone or Eat In : 1 393-0164 I I ~-. 1 Buy'20or More Wings and I 1 Get lO.FREE I ••••••IGotldlhruMay 161hexceptWed.nights ...... Housing Lottery 1984-85 Singles•l.otterv--May 10, 6:30 p.m., Stage 11-Carneg ie. Mvsf bring I o, Lottery card Senior -Lottery (.doubles & suites)-- May 15, 6:30p.m., Stage II·Carnegie. Must bring 10 Lottery card, All roommates must attend. J J4nior Lottery (doubles. & suit~s)•-May 17, 6:30p.m., Stage 11-Carnegie. Bring 10, Lottery cart All roommates must attend. Sophomore Lotterv (doubles & suites)--May 22, 6:30 p.m., Stage II,·Qrnegie. Bring I 0, Lottery card. All roommates must attend. *'Stage II is locatednexttothe G.ame Room on 3rd floor of Carnegie Hall.

Page 16 ~The Dutch Hollow Publ( · Friday, May 11 FITZHUGH . LUDLOW DAY The Pub Bar. will open at 7 p.m. CONCORDIEJYSIS, May /0, 1984 I Senior Fling Committ.ee Hosts: ''A Touch ofClass'' A.formaldanceat the Gideon Putnam in .Saratoga Springs, N. Y. 9 p.m.-1 a.m. Fri~ay, May ·1a, 1984 Tickets on sale NOW! Any questions? Come to the Senior Fling meeting to discuss further arrangements! r···············-···················· 1 Cabaret Presents: I I .Act 1: Lori Cooper -1 I and Despina Nicholas I Undergraduate Psychology_ Conference 1 Act II: Bob Hartman I I and The.Shades I The 20th Annual New York State Un- dergraduate Psychology Conference will be held in April 1985 here at Union College. An organizational meeting has been scheduled for all students interested in getting involved in the planning and administration of the I M.C.: Joel Rosenfield I 1 Showsat8:45&10:45tonite 1 1 Buy Tickets at 1 I Student Activities Desk I · conference. The meeting will be held Monday, May 14 at 4:00 p.m. in PY 113. For further information, please contact Prof. lipton. I NOWll . I ...................................... .._ ______________ __. .... -- ----· ·----··---. --- .. ·,--· -1 i n\E. (_oU..~G~ ~IDS ~~ 80UoHfT'\ 1'1 l'l;t:r.A fROfo'\ :SL/I:Ez.o .1,., (j( '({)IIJV... P\U./'11 1 tiE:! rT '.s 8UP.N T; ~NO 1L ICIDS! ~£~! Ht~! . \111-\E~E. S THE. 0-IEE.SE.? . t;PV..'fi...Y -NO RE flJIIPS ~ A~ ~ \ H A 1-4 fl \4\ H~ WE WAN~ 0\J~ MOI'J€. Y ~,1{;\;:. ~ CAN I !lAVE- A. PEI<:.E? Tt4E GOOO 1\1%%1\ r-\AN WILL BE. s•L.i..ING SLICU SUBS 1'\WO .SOD!\ A1\ fOlC- e>.-.'ltD.SO~ BEI'ot.t-1 A'T '3:oo . Nil' llS'r llti.D (lrr :oo '1'\~1~ SA'T'. ANP Sl.lr,-1, r--- - . - OPERATION. SWEET TOOTH Campus Bands Interested in . playing for \Camp Union\ . Buy a snow cone~ ice cream cone or cotton candy for the Prev·ention of Child Abuse. Sponsored by SDT in front of (:arnegie Thurs. 12:00~5:00 Fri.12:00-6:00 DELTA GAMMA'S on Friday, May 25 please submit: -Demo Tape - List of band members 'Nith I. D. numbers To Box 64 or Box 1 011 no later thaq May 10 ·! '84 OLYMPICS Saturday, tytay 19th 11 a.m. Richmond Beach Events Include Obstacle Course, Human Pyramid Buil-ding~ Relay R-aces~ a Mystery . . Event and much more fun! · Lots of Raffle Prizes Team members receive free T-Shirts! ~·guys and s girls per team To Enter Call 6455 or 6408 . Entry F._~e $3.00 ,per person - Proceeds benefit Northeastern Assoc. of Blind. - JN1 The Respo writin temsh Ralph suppm of re! projec crease of th Openir year . NY: Social ternshiJ college paid in dividua: in the Applica the CD< Sum Interns! Schenec the m• applicm with nu and peo commw onal an Juniox:s Send re nor, D'I Ferry l 12305. 1 availabl' TheN of I placem• students governrn and juve areas r services. data pre informat and ' program Public Group's This no which e< consumeJ issues ra the citi: PIRG, h as Can· Manager: the field National: Voter Re musthavl ability to enthusia responsibJ More info CDC. ...

INTERNSHIPS The Center for Study of Responsive . Law: Several writing and research in- ternships available in non-profit Ralph Nader organization that supports and conducts a variety of research and educational projects to encourage an · in- creased awareness of the needs of the citizen consumer. Openings at all times during the year. NY State Department .of Social Services: summer in- ternships in Albany .for minority college students. The 12 week .paid internships will give in~ dividuals valuable e:xperience in the social services field. Applications are available in the CDC. Summer Ad ve rtis.ing Intel;'nship: DTV Advertising, Schenectady. Internship is in the media <!,rea: Successful applicants will be able to deal with numbers, problem.SQlving and people, and will have ,good communications, organizati- onal and interpersonal Skills. J unim:s or Seniors prererred. Send resume to Diane O'Con- nor, DTV Advertising, 111 S. Ferry St., Schenectady, NY 12305. Additional information available in CDC. The New York State Division of Probation: Intern placements available for students interested in state government and~or the crirn.inal and juvenile justice systems in areas related to probation services. Includes electronic ~ata processing, management mformation, juvenile planning and alcohol treatment programming. Public Interest Research Group's Citizen Canvas Staff· Th~s non-profit organization: which educates the public on ~onsumer and environmental Issues raises funds and builds the citizen membership of PIRG, has paying internships as Canvassers and Field Mana~ers. They will prqvide the . field operation for the National Student Campaign for Voter Registration. Applicants m~t have interest in the issues, ability to relate well to people enthusiasm, leadership' respon.sibility and commitment: More mformation available in CDC. CONCORDJENS/S, May 10; 1984 .HELP WANTED Social Chau.ge Jobs. Professional positions with Public . Interest. Groups . (PIRGs) available nationwide. Work on environrnental\social justice-arms control issues. Send resume to : Janet Domenit+ PlRGs-31 Temple Place-Bo~ton, MA 02111 (617)423-1796. Summer jobs also. Entries are being sought for the second annual Dore Schary Awards for Human Relations Fihn and Video Productions. The competition, sponsored by the Anti~Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, will select the best student-developed films and video productions on human relations themes of 1983-84. Cotm1elors : CerEd overnight call?-p near Albany. Head and Assistant Instructor position in: Archery, Arts and Crafts Basketball, Radio Statio~ (AM),, Tenn~s, Photography, Music _Director-Piano Accompamst, Dance Counselor- show Choreographer, Com.- puters, SoftbaTI and Unit Leader-Good salary- friendly atmosphere. Contact: Marc 432-7794. ' SPEAKERS John Rodat, Committee on Health, New York State Asse!llbl~ will be speaking on Alternative. Strategies for Regulating New York's Health Care System.onMaylO, at 3;45- 5;00 p.m., Bailey Hall Room 312. ' Edward Norton, Senior Manager, Health Care Con- sulting Practice, Price Waterhouse and Campany will be speaking on Health Care Finance--Evolution and Revolution on May 17, 3:45-5:00 p.m. in, Bailey Hall, Room 312. CLUB NEWS Bible Study--Friday, May 11th, 4 p.m., Campus Ministry Office. Sr. Joan will lead a study of and pray with the Gospel of Matthew. Newman Folk Group-- Sunday, May 13th will meet in St. John's Church at 6:30p.m. to rehearse before leading the Congregation in song at the 7: 30 p.m. Mass. Newman Club Meeting & Social-Monday., May 14th, 8 p.m., 4th floor Lounge, Car- negie. Theatre Party-- Thursday, May 24th, Proctor'S 8 p;m. to see Richard Harris in Camelot. Group tickets may be \Obtained for $10.80 through the Campus Ministry Office. 3-70-6087. Fllm Committee Presents: To Be or Not To Be-May 11-13 at 7 ,9,11. From Mao to Mozart: Isaac Stem in China-May 15 at 7,9,11 IJfeboat, (Alfred Hitchcock)- May 16 at 7,9,11. CLASS/REDS FOX-DAVIDSON ALL CAMPUS PARTY--Thi.s Saturday £rom 3-8 p.m. Live band, free beer, hamburgers and hotdogs-25 cents. Don't miss it!!!!! Images of the Sea-(Liberal Learning 55-F) Orientation Meeting: Monday, May 14, 4:30 p.m. in Science and Engineering Center, Room 8301. T·he SteriUz;ation Option, sponsored by Upper Hudson Planned Parenthood. Albany Planned Parenthood Center, Monday, May 14, 6-8 p.m. For more information call 434-4037. Sexual Harassment-What do you do when your boss kisses you during a performance appraisal, or when faced with other close encounters of an unwanted kind? At work or in a · summer job. Speaker: Susan Lein Brown, UC '78, presently Manager of Affirmative Action and EEO at Corning Glass. Thursday, May 17, at 4 in the Career Development Center- second floor. Dance Auditions-eba Dance Theater, Albany's resident professional danee theater company will hold auditions for men and women as company members and apprentices on Sunday, May 20, 1984 at the Chapter House Theater, corner of Lark and Hudson Ave., Albany. Auditions for men will be held at 12 noon. Auditions for women will be held at 2:00 p.m. The studio will be available one hour before the audition for warm- up. Resumes may be sent in advance. Applicants should have a solid backg~ound in performing and teaching of contenaporary modern dance theater. For more information, please contact eba Dan~e Theater, 351 Hudson Ave., Albany or call (518) 465-9916 Monday- Thursday, between 1 and 9 p.m. All student productions completed in the 1983-84 college year are eligible for the first, second and third place prizes which will be awarded in four categories, two each for film and video. All entries mliSt be submitted by June 30. The categories for both film and video are: -Narrative, animation, live action; and -Documentary, experime- ntal. Students desiring to enter the competition must submit a 16mm print or a % inch video cassette along with an entry form and a letter of recom- mendation from a member of his or her school's teaching faculty to Dore Schary Awards, Television, Radio and Film Department, Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, 823 United Nations Plaza, New York, NY 10017. Entry forms are available from the film and video departments of colleges and univ.ersitfes and from ADL. Travel to Rome, Athens, .Lisbon, London, Paris, Frank- furt, etc. from only $99 each way. Call now or send for your FREE brochure. Operators always on duty. Enclose one dollar for postage and handling. Europe Express, Inc. 3460 Main St., Hartford, CT06120 (203) 522- 6580. Typing-Papers typed with professional results by e~ecutive secretary. ]fast service and accurate proofreading at $1 per .page. Call Judy 399-3383. Typing done for students. Please contact 346-5104 Niskayuna area Please contact 355-3239 Knows medical terminology Please contact 377-4215 Scotia area. NEED CASH? Earn $500+ each school year, 2-4 (flexible) hours per week placing and fill~ng posters on campus. Sertous workers only; we give recommendations. Call now for swnmer and next fall. 1-800-243- 6679. PERSONALS Page 17 Delta Gamma sis,!ers are you ready for the Olympics? Get . psyched. MARY PHILUPS for Senior Class Representative. Cheryl and Jack: everyone in Vienna says hi!! Write soon! Love, us , KAF and SMC: Something's wrong. The mail man refuses to deliver any mail from you guys. Regards to B & J. Miss you. - D&T Do you have your . Olympic: teams yet? HAPPY BIRTHDAY :EARACHE!!!!! Love, Flakey, Lazy, Jappy, and Sloppy ie. Get the ''good thing\ C. U.S.S. will have its first organizational meeting tonite, May 10, in the Skellar (where else?!) at 10:00. All those in- terested please attend. Save the Skellar! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Klainaan; Thompson and Rosen; The Dean wants to see you now! ! ! ! ! ! Dear Lynne, Gone Whaling much lately? Your nineteen behind the leader. CONGRATULATIONS to CHRIS SILER and SARAH ANDREWS for scoring for the Women Ruggers on Sunday afternoon. It was a great game. GET PSYCHED FOR SUN- DAY!!!! Dearest John, A.S. has in- formed me that you are the new Lean, Mean, Sex Machine. I'm quite astonished to find out about your newest sexual powers. Get psyched for some SERIOUS MOONIJGHT! ! ! . Lois-Happy Mother's Day! Hope you have a great one! - Love, your 1st daughter Delta Chi's Watch out fellow students, Big Brother Mammola and the rest of the Campdown Administration are watching every move you make. J.S. JWD-..How about a freshman year replay drink for drink until one of us if FUBARed (probably me! )-You know Who P .S. Who said the personals were never for you! Molson Keg Par~ty Friday, May 18th I 0:30p.m. Live Music Be There! So there-! think that the Skellar should be open all night long ......... . Fitzhugh Ludlow Day is coming! ! Fitzhugh Ludlow Day is coming! ! Fitzhugh Ludlow Day is coming! ! Fitzhugh « Ludlow Day is coming!! Don't miss it!! Don't miss it!! Don't miss it!! Susan: Saw Franz in Wien today. He's been asking about you. Have a WILD Spring Term. We miss you. -D&T JH: Hope you're getting lots of chances to increase yoUI\ sweatshirt collection. We aren't. We miss you. Have fun.- ·D&T Moses: Hi...We can't come to Union right now, but we'd sure like to see you. Please take the next plane at the tone of the beep. BEEP. Be home soon. Love, US Jim and Jay, I hope it's not as bad as you told me it was going to be. Good luck. Love Julie Jeff; Ira, Barry, Brian, Don & Steve-Good luck next year { You may be ready for the real w~rld, but is it ready for you!?! Richelle Help out at Camp Union and haye a blast! ! ! Sign qp for work shifts is today at 4: 30 and 7:30 in St~auss and Carnegie Lobby. Without you there will be less beer and fun!!!!! ! FOX AND DAVIDSON RULE! ! ! ! Fox and Davidson are the \real\DORMS- ON CAMPUS!! To my big honeybear-We've come a long way in two years- I still love YQU and you still love me!! Let's keep it that way forever. sososososososo 7 ...

Page 18 CONCORDf!'f\ISJS, May /0, 1'984 Guidelines for Dutchman's Night Reservations Reservations for Dutchman's Night will ~nly be accepted at the Pizza Pub during nornlal' business hours MBnday through Thursday. • When making reservations aH persons or ITieal cards must be present. This ·is to insure pr()per reservation taking. • The party must be booked a:ll at once, this VJi II insure a better dining atmosphere. We ca;!'not accept\ maybe\ reservations. • Cash reservations are welcome. Those who VJi U be pay i:ng f.or dinner, please pay at the door. • A pers.on must bring his-her 10, meal card.alld entry ticket at Dutchman's Night. If these a:re not present, a person cannot be seated. • Anyone caught using aaother individual's J,O, meal card or dinner ticket will be turned over to the director of food service. Meal card and 'I1D will be taken. • Because of a Ia rge dining room turnover, v.~e ask that you be prompt for dinner. This wi U insure an easy turnover, and no waiting for people at later seatings. AnENTlON G·RA·DUATES Orange Motors has a College Graduate Finance ·Plan No PreviQus Credit Required Very Little Down No Co-Maker Necessary For Details & Appointment Call Orange Motors 799 Centra I Ave·. Albany, NY 12206 • No Dutchman's Night on Sat., May 12th. EnjBy the Clambake! Bar wiH open 4 p.m. LAST DUTCHMAN'S NIGHT OF THE YEAR wiU be Sat., May 19th.. Make reservations now! Ask for Joe Bruno or Vince Cristaldi 489-5414 Management of the Dutch Hollow Pub BETA SUNSET PARTY is coming! Friday, May 18th Tickets $2 On Sale Now Proceeds go to the Law, Order and Justice Society - - - • • • - - - - • - - - - - - -A\ Salvation Army Drive sponsored by The Brothers of Alpha Phi Alpha (pre-chapter) May 16-20 Carnegie Hall PLEASE HELP THE NEEDY I For more information call: 370-6697 or 370-6970 ~~, •• ,,,~ •• ••• •• \Tonight & Every Thursday at Station #3 ''Original Musicians Showcase\ -· Hosted By- COLBY SN,O REVUE (Top 40 Band) --Special Guests- SYNAPSE Featuring Betsy Rae 374-4835 • 10 N. Jay St. •• - - • - • - - • - - - • - - - - -- -·------- JATI611~3 ;Greek Week Tournaments Tuesday May 15 J : 0 Op , rn • ~'\\::'\\'1..-1..-LJ.W...Io.Q.-..I.....L..-'\\\' ~vedne sda ~......_w.g............,.~..o~..... __ _ Greek Week One-Pitch Softb~ll Tournament Saturday May May 16 3:00p.m.~~~~~~~ r---------\ . r-\\:....6....1.tJ;il.......loU,.I..,.___~- Friday May 18 ______ ..__~~~~~~==t:=::::::::...:A=l::l g~ames played on Library Field Tuesday May 15 3' OOp .m. All fust round tugs Friday May lS 1 : OOp .rn, Greek Week Ultimate Frisbee Tournament Saturday May 19 All games played on West College Field All other rounds Saturday May 19 • :1- All Tugs en Library Field IJI1f La~ The Un team fi tercollegi~ losing the1 Siena and game, UIJ agai.rist an losing u~ outplayed in ground offensive twenty m Dutchmen At the en the score vantage. came fron scored ant Rebecca C goal. The 1 The final n - .. ·- c::: L-

~ ~ >- ..0 0 .... 0 .r::: 0. CONCORDIENSIS, May 10, 1984 Pagel9 Laxtnen ·Finish Season At 3-9 . . . - ' ByG.A.M. Sports .Staff The Union Men's Lacrosse team finished their in- tercollegiate schedule this week losing their l.ast two games to Siena and Calgate .. In the first game, Union looked. sluggish agairtst an average .Siena team, losing 11-7. The Siena team outplayed Union, .. beating them in groundballs, ~ace-offs, ~nd offensive opportunities taking twenty more shots than the Dutchmen in the game. At the end of the fir$t quarter, the score was 2\'1 Siena ad- vantage. Union's only goal came from Chris Davis as he scored an unassisted goal at the 6:08 mark of the first quarter. Union was badly outscored in the second quarter; the half- time score was 6-,1. Andy Larkin scored two goals iJl. the third quarter, the score was 9-3 going into the fourth quarter.• Union was only able to muster one more goal as Mark Ehudin scored . on a pass from Eric Kaye. Siena scored two more goals leaving the final score at 11-:7. . The Dutchmen's next game came against Colgate on Parents' Weekend. Union came out fired up and were able to score the game's first three goals. On the first goal, Ehudin scored on an empty net on a feed from Pete Agricola. One Rebecca Clemente of the women's lacrosse team makes a shot on goal. The Dutchwomen beat Hartwick 14-10. Monday on the turf. The final record is 7-5. minute later, Union's Kaye scored on a pass·from Ehudin. Union was now ahead at the 8:04 rn~rk ofthe first period and was able to increase the lead to :ro. Being three goals ahead, the Dutchmen became sloppy, giving up four goals late in the first quarter. At tlle end of 1 the first quarter, the score was 4.-3 in fawr of Colgate. The second and third quarters were played tough defensively, the only goal for either team being scored by George Murray. The goal was unassisted with just four minutes left in the third quarter. This proved to be the last Union tally while Colgate gathered three more goals and won by a 7-4 margin. All student ·athletes who received an invitation to the May17 Awards Banquet must pick up their tickets between 9 a.m.;.4 p.m. at the A th leti c .Dept. by Friday, Mayll '84-'85 Yearbook n~eds your help I Come to the first staff organizational meeting today --- thursday, May 10 at 7:30 in Yearbook Q.ffice (4th floor Carnegi:e) PH J. DE.LTA )U£TA \ SUNS[T 'PARTY -----.::::_ ~-==>·- - . . -\ ' ...... ·- - ·-·-=-·~-~- ...,_.. __ ~ .. ~ ...,e::.. .... ·- - -- ---- ......... THUK. -·-... M..4Y 17 Scott Wyk.off On Sports It was not .a typical day at the ballpark for .six Dutchman athletes last Saturday .. There were n() team introductions, rather the proceedings opened with the sounds of an organ. College Tl'llStee Richard Day took the place of Robert MerrilL In place of the National Anthem, Day welcomed all to the event. The officials lacked the zebra str-ipes and were drapped in the robes of their respective Alma Maters. Like the Super Bowl and World Series the May 5th ex- travagance is an annual ceremony. A capacity crowd filled the pews of the college's Memorial Chapel last Saturday morning to honor students for distinction and achievement. The event was Union CoUege'S annual Prize Day. Moms, dads, grandparents, brothers, and sisters aiike sat in attendance waiting to share in the thrill of the reco~Pl;ition that each award recipient would be _bestowed with as they walked across the Chapel's stage. Tim Alibozek, Elaine Pick, Dan Stewart, Tim Howell, Cay Lynch and Joe Wood will aU admit they were part of a definite minority sitting in the roped off sections of the Chapel. But when Director -of Athletics Dick Sakala took to the podium and announced the athletic departments P·rize Day_ Awards, they fit right in with all those honored that morning. Junior Tim Alibozek was the first of. the six: athletes to be honored as Sakala presented him with the Fred W. Bruhn Award. Theawardis given each spring to a member of the - varsity baseball team who has made the greatest contribution in terms of leadership, team and college loyalty, and service as a player. Tim has enjoyed a fine career on the Dutchman baseball diamond. · The Pitt- sfield native does it all for Coach John Audino's squad, both up at the plate and out at second base.· Around this time last year the campus community was realizing how fine an athlete Rebbeca Clemente was. 1984-85 saw tne emergence of yet another fine freshman female athlete; Her name is Elaine Pick and she won the Terri Lynch-Jackie Havercamp Cuttita Memorial Award given to the freshman female athlete - who has shown desire, dedication, sportsmanship and inspirational leadership on the fields of competition as well in her daily life. One must be sure that Dan Stewart was quite hon()red back in December when he was named offensive MVP of the Stagg Bowl. When interviewed after the game,.Stewart showed the composure usually reserved fora victor. Stewart was a true victor this past fall even in defeat and Dan was awarded the William A. Pike !v.lem.orial Trophy this past Saturday. The award is given each year to a junior for attitude, par- ticipation, and achievement in intercollegiate sports. Any Dutchman pigskinner would be the first to admit how deserving Stewart is of this award. Another Dutchman football player to be recognized at Prize Day was Senior Tim Howell. Howell is a three year starter at linebacker who was named an Associated Press \Little All- American\ for his senior year eXploits. Tim was awarded the Ronald Plwnb Memorial Prize, presented annually to a senior member of the .football team who best exemplifies the qualities and characteristics of Plwnb, class of 1980~ Cay Lynch has done alot for women's athletics at Union .during her four years as a student athlete. Cay's biggest notedety has come from her uncanny play as a Dutch women roundballer. Lynch was given the Robert B. Ridings Award Saturday morning, given an- nually to a senior for her at- titude, ability, participation and achievement in interc()llegiate sports at Union College. Winters in Schenectady won't he quite the same without Cay in tbe Garnet uniform. The last athlete and certainly not the least athlete to be honored at Prize Day was Senior Joe Wood. It goes with out saying that Wood I:Jas en- joyed an exciting foUl' years as a Dutchman. Joe's name is high on all the Union basketball record boards and if records were kept for baseball he would probably own most of them. Wood's many accomplistunents were recognized as he was named as the William Jaffe Award Medalist. The .Medal is given to the student chosen as the outstanding athlete of the year. B.L.A.S. ' ~ ~ : i Annual Children's Day TIME: May 12 .from 9:00a.m. to 5:00 p.m . PLACE: Union College Alumni Gym EVENTS: athletic activities, swim· ming, picnic, movie and a magic show. : ORGANIZATIONAL PARTICIPATION: : YWCA, Schenectady Boys Club, Girls 1 Club, Carver Community Center, Big : Brother and Big Sister of Schenectady. ; : i l For further information call: wanda Torre$ - 382-2001 or Greg Bolwer - 370-6607

.... .... 'L: I.. (JJ :;E .... ro a. > .0 0 ._ 0 .c 0. Page10 CONCORDIENSfj: May /0, /984 . . SPORTS Garnet Ruggers Add Two W's ByUCRFC Sports Staff The Rugby Club continued its roll last week as it picked up two more victories with a win against RPI and a forfeit from Si<ma. Playing RPI at home on Wednesday afternoon, the Union ruggers defeated a big Engineer squad quite easily by a score of 16-8. However the score was no indication of the game's tempo for the Garnet completely· dominated play allowing RPI's score only because of several C()Stty mistakes. After failing to bring the ball in for a successful try several times in the first half, Union finally was able to .put the ball down late inthe first half. From a successfulscrum-down to able passing by theline, the ball was worked out to winger Tim Riley who streaked down the sidelme. Several broken tackles and 25 meters later, Ril~y put the ball down directly behind the posts for his fifth try of the season. Meade Summers converted and Union was up by 6..(). Again in the second half the Garnet ruggers appeared as if they were ready to run away with the game, but sloppy play kept RPI right in the action. Early in the half, Union ran a penalty play that if successful was destined to score. And, indeed it did as Pete Ladd Fullback Scott Collins receives the ball. The f>. team played the killer·B's for the parents' benefit since Siena forfeited. ... Jen DUorio makes headlines Men's Track In States· By DAVE MARIN Sports Staff The 400 meter relay team of Giordano; Greif, Halpern, and · Tuthill placed seventh with a time of 55.8 at the same meet. pitched out to Doug Baumgarten who carried the ball half the field for his fourth try of the season. Again Swn- mers converted putting his team up 12-0. At this point the home club seemed to fall apart. After dominating the entire game, the Union defense weakened as it struggled to fight back the RPI surges. 'With all this, the Engineers were able to squeeze out one try with a successful conversion to cut their deficit in half. After a couple of defensive kicks., Union was able to regroup itself for a final try. This time it was Steve Cole who put his shoulder down and busted through the RPI defense for a final Garnet try and the score stood at 16-f). Then this past Saturday, the Union RFC was to play Siena, this year's Upstate Tourney's champs. Yet, Siena failed to show. Not to let the parents down though, the Killer B's put forth the challenge to the A squad. Spotted with ten points, the second team challenged the A side to a game in which the loser buys a keg. Though it appeared to be merely an inter- squad scrimmage, both sides were out for blood. One rugger commented, \It's not every day you play for a Michelob Light.\ The Killer B's held tough as they shut down the Garnet of- fense early in the first half. Yet the A side refused to be held back for long. A penalty for the B side allowed Summers to put the A side on the board with three points. Later in the half carne a try by Steve Patterson as he sprang out from a serum- down and put it down. Summers converted, but the Killer B's still led by a score of 10-9. Down at halftime, the A squad came out determined to win that keg. Quickly into the half,. the Garnet ·broke the B's domination. After the line worked the ball out, Rob Israel · made a picture-perfect pass to incoming fullback Scott Collins who put his team up with a try. Again Summers split the uprights on the conversion .and the A side was up by five. To cap off the A's 25-10 victory were two more tries, one from Ladd (with Summers converting) and another by Cole, his fifth of the season. This Saturday the Union RFC, now 6-4, will host (tentatively) RIT on Library Field at 1:00. DUTCHMEN SPO'RTSWEEK May 1()-17 'Thursday 5.110 Tennis--at Hartwick,3:30 p.m. Friday 5/11 Men's Track-· NYS Mee.f.at Hartvv.ick, 3 p.m. Saturday 5/12 Men's Track--NYSMeet.atHartvvicl(, noon Men's Lacrosse-·vs. Alumni, lp, m~, Turf GARNET S·COR EBOARD BASEB.ALL(7-6) games postp<>Red MEN;S LACROSSE (3-9) Colgate7 Union 4 WOMEN'SLACROSSE (7·5) Union14 .. Hartwick 10 SOFT.BALL(4·6) LeMoyne game rained out Union6 PaceS TE: NNI.S (2·6) B:inghamton 7 Middlebury 8 Unioh 2 UniQn l RUGBY (4·4) l,Jnion 16 RPI6 Siena withdrewfror:n Sat. game GOLF (5-4') Union 404 HartwrcK 416 Support Union S~orts. Softball Ends Seaso-n By LINDA GUTIN Sports Staff The Union College Women's Softball team ended their season on a high note on Saturday in front of a large crowd of parents and fans. Aided by the roar of the crowd the Union team beat Pace, despite their metal cleats, 6-5. The game was forced to go into extra innings, after the team's were tied 5-5 at the end of regulation play. In the bottQm of the ~ighth inning Jeannie Haller hit an awesome sbot ov:ei.\ the left fielder's head to score Peg Petro for the winning rurt. · Haller went 3-5 for the day with two singles in addition to the game winning hit, . a double. Knocking in a grand total three RBI's, Barb Bailey had· three singles in four at bats and scored twice; Petro was 2.;a with a stolen base, and scored twiCe; while Lyla Meader, Nia Cholakis, and Patty Richards added a single each. Pitcher Angie Miczek had a single and a run scored offensively, while defensively she struck out three batters, made four- putouts and had three assists. Shortstop Petro had five putouts and three ' assists. Nia Cholakis made a great catch at first, sacrificing her back bone for the team. Uni()n had a total of 12 hits and 6 r11ns, While Pace had7 hits and 5 nms. F€lr the season the top five batting averages were earned by: aarb Bailey, Sr. Angie Miczek, Jr. NiaCholakis, Sr. Peg Petro, Jr. Patty Richards, Soph. .571 .545 .454 .433 .364 Although the teams final record was 4-6,_three of the four wins came in the last three games of the seas.on, indicating that the team did not shrug off the end of the season, but in- stead took the bull by the hams and finished up the season with flying colors. The team wouLd like to express their warmest thanks to the head coach, Cbarlyn Robert, assistant coach, Jim Carafano, and to all the people who came to watch our games and cheer us on. This week J en Dilorio highlights track news for her outsta!lding performance at the NYSAIA W (state) Cham- pionships held this past Saturday at Albany. Dilorio placed third in the javelin throw with a toss of 120 feet, 7 inches, .vhich is her best throw ever and 1lso a school record. Dilorio also set school records last week in .the discus and javelin. Coach Russ Ebbetts com- mented on her performance: At the Colgate Open-, the men came through with some place finishes including Scott Remillard's first in the discus and third in the hammer, Mark Dunn's third in the discus, Gary Wenner's third in the pole vault with a jump of 12 feet 6 inches, Todd Allen's consistent per- formance which gained him fifth in the 100 meter in 11.1 seconds, and a fifth place tie for Chris O'Donnell and Billy McRoberts in the 5000 meter. Women's Rugby Club Victorious \She's consistently impr<Jved throughout the season and produced well under pressure; She's worked very hard and the success is well-deserved.\ .;-(,.Y· - M . . The women's season is over · and the men go to states (NYSCT&FA) at Hartwick next Friday and Saturday. The >Oftball team beat Pace Saturday on Library Field. Parents were able to cheer the Dutc.hwomen on toth~ir final victory. ByUCWRFC Sports Staff Sunday May 6, 1984; a day that will go down in history. In front of a capacity crowd, in the true spirit of the garnet and white, the Union College Women's Rugby team bounced back from recent tournament losses to defeat visiting William Smith by a score of 8-0. The game was plaglled with in- juries, a total of six Union players were substituted for the opposition. Aiding William Smith were Kate Douglas, .Lisa Coppolo, Louisa Rooney, Donna Greenfield, Donna Gardiner,. and Kathy Hawke. Union dominated the game from William · Smith's opening kickoff, with the best coor· dination of backs and serums yet this season. Rarely behind their own 22 meter line, Union was on the offE!nsive for the majority of the game. In the first half there were two scoring attempts. The first one came early on in the game with Kathy Maglioto plowing thirty yards through the William Smith defense only to spike the ball, an attempt which was disqualified, as the ball was not touched down. The first official try of the women's rugby team was awarded to Chris Siler. The ball was rapidly moved through the backs on a penalty play to Siler, who ran it into the try zone. 'The second try in the game .(each is worth four points) was scored by Sarah Andrews in the second half, who brought in a ground ball from inside William Smith territory. The second half opened with a fine kickoff by Gretchen Becker, whose kicking. and hooking were exceptional all day. The Union serum com- pletely dominated the William Smith serum and won the majority of the scrwndowns. Tbe driving force of the Union serum consisted of Allison B-arry; Gretchen Becker, Maureen O'Day, Caroline Brandenstein, Betsy ·Boutwell, Megan Lutzker, Janette Carron, Jeanine Vivano, and Hawke. It is the strength and aggression of this unit which provide support and proteCtion for the backs; they are also the jumpers and binders in the lineouts. The William Smith team is in their first year of play, like Union, yet many of their scoring drives were led almost ex- clusively by the substituted Union Players. Any attempts they made were foiled by strong defensive tackling, especially by fullback Louise Fisher, Andrews. and Maglioto. The Union Ruggers will play their final game of the season nelrt Sunday at William Smith. Good Luck to both the men'$ and women's teams this weekend! President c difficulties Col By D. While m4 community upcoming , campus stu located at C< proposed re1 Gym, very aware of the will be mad the camptis. include rerr parking lots . construction will take pi~ The chaJ proposed by with the : Planner J; i· . •' ·· .. Vice Presld'er Hauser ···;, Saratoga Ass which have submitt,ed to Priorities Cm and will soon Board of Tru~ their final basic outli developed f Projects to b CollegeCe1 modifications ~arnegie Ha mterior \cru The major f, Planned-to'be Service, the Student Acti, room.. Accc President f, Administrati< the dining ha not be open West Dining to operate as Hauser indica a 'Very stro ticuiarly am1

I I r I )n ~n o- es er o- . i Fitzhugh Ludlow Day .. FHLHonors Isaac W. Jackson For more than 50 years Isaac W. Jackson devoted his life to this College. Jackson was born in Cornwall, Pennsylvania on August 28, 1804. Early in his childhood he exhibited many talents, in particular, a strong aptitude for mathematics and mechanics. At the age of 17, he was sent to the Albany Academy. Upon completing his studies at the Academy he entered Union College, where he attained high standing in the classics. Jackson graduated from Union with first honors in both mathematics and chemistry i,n the year 1826. Shortly after graduation he was appointed a Tutor by the College. Jackson for his magnificent garden. However, there is much more to Jackson than his garden. He was deeply involved with the workings of the College; he wanted to see Union be a success. His whole life centered in and was bounded by his College. He spent all of his time in his family circle, his study, the classroom or with members of the faculty. He was not interested in big public occasions because he had no desire for personal recognition. requests to the graduates to start organizing local Alumni Associations. It was hoped that these Associations would get the College back up on its feet so that its prestige could once again begin to prosper. It was Professor Jackson's in- . volvement that turned the College back in the right direction. Even though the Professor spent many hours in the classroom he still found plenty of time to devote to \his\ garden. When Jackson first arrived at Union he found only a. few beds of poor flowers and vegetables. When he departed he left a garden which was well ordered, widely extended, filled with select plants, shrubs, and flowers. His garden became one of the most attractive possessions of the College. Isaac W, Jackson, Union class of 1826 afld founder of Jackson's Garden. While he was still attending Union he became actively in- terested in military drill. \Captain Jack\ as Jackson was often called received his commission from President Eliphalet Nott in the summer of 1828 after he was unanimously elected to the post by \Com- pany A\ of the Union College Cadets. \Captain Jack\ was eventually promoted to major; however . the nickname \Cap- tain\ always stayed with him. Professor Jackson turned into an affable teacher, a truly remarkable professor who made learning easier for his pupils. Jackson, being of Quaker heritage, entered Union with a strict code of discipline but the late President Nott, whom he loved and assisted most faithfully, modified Isaac's conception of discipline. In time, the impetuousity of his nature was mellowed through experience, inborn kindliness and Christian charity. His disposition became such that students would always think favorably of Professor Jackson after being in one of his classes. Professor Jackson cultivated well over 300 varieties of roses. ·He corresponded with the best horticulturists in both England and America. He also con- tributed vast amounts of money to the maintenance of his garden at a time when salaries of collegiate professors were often declared to be too small to permit their enjoyment of the pleasures of the world. P'rofessor Jackson stated· privately just a short time before his death that he had put around $10,000.00 into the garden. .>· In the year 1831 Captain Jack was promoted to the Professorship of Mathematics. As Professor he wrote numerous books on subjects such as Trigonometry, Optics, Conic Sections, and Mechanics. His books were adopted and put to use in some American colleges and British in- stitutions. But Professor Jackson simply wrote them for the benefit of his' own classes: . He had no desire for publicity, but simply wanted to help his students. Professor Jackson had the degree of Doctor of Laws conferred upon him by Hobart College, but his modesty led him. to hesitate before finally giV'i.ng in and accepting the ·degree. . . No'! that most of the . truly Important dates in Isaac Jackson's life have been alluded to we can turn to the real man, the man that has given so much to this College. Unfortunately, most people only seem to remember · A Tribute To Isaac W. Jackson Jackson affected the . College community in other ways also. When fraternities were in their early years at Union Professor Jackson was an avid supporter. Professor Jackson believed that the students were in a stage of life where they most needed the cordial intimacy of elder friends, and that they might receive the right advice and counseling through the con~ fidences of friendship that develop in the fraternities. Professor Jackson also thought that the Alumni from these fraternities would also be of great service in helping the undergraduates. · Professor Jackson would always step in when he saw that the College needed help. For instance, right after the con- clusion of the Civil War, Union College was in critical con- dition. It had been declining . steadily during the years in prestige, influence and num- bers. Doctor Jackson was among one of the first to really comprehend this. problem. Jackson sent out personalized ...... _.' \Union College may possibly have sent out graduates -more illustrious, . but among all her sons, she has never had one who has given his Alma Mater a more nndivided, persistent and self{orgetful devotion. \ .. The garden used to be used by Professor Jackson and President Nott to extend the reputation and influence of the College. President Nott used to invite the inquiring visitor, usually a potential donor, to call on Profoessor Jackson for a walk through the garden. This walk would not only produce a pleasant general impression of the College, but it would em- phasize the beauties and the capabilities of the school. Professor Jackson's cordial hospitality was also very beneficial in these situations. Professor Jackson learned with much pleasure in the last year of his life that a fund had been projected for continuing his work in the garden. The culmination of Doctor Jackson's career finally came in 1876; at the se.rrii.-centennial anniversary of his connection 'with the college. Allliis friends and associates gathered to congratulate him on this momentous occasion and to pay ~ribute. Displaying his modesty m front of public crowds once again he had Governor Hoff- man, an old student, read the speech he had prepared. Just as· Professor Jackson became conscious of failing powers, he ebbed tranquilly #away in his sleep. Selected material extracted from Discourses Com- memorative of Professor Tayler Lewis,· LL.D., L.H.D., and of Professor Isaac W. Jackson, LL.D. and from Semi· Centennial Anniversary of the Connection of Professor Isaac W. Jackson witlt the Faculty of Union College 1876 .

I to I I I I mt ly, on en :o- . es .er :o- ! I l ' 1. ' -~~ 0 • ' • 1 , ' 0 ' < I , ' • ' ' •' ~ • 0 ', ' 0 , O • '• • • \'- 0 > , 0 ...._ ·~: \ 0 -! '•: ~ ' Fitzhugh Ludlow Day ~~~May 11, 1984 . ' ' .' ' ' .. ; ' . . ' ' ' ' ' ~~ ·. : ' . :· ~ ·.... . '. FHLHonors Isaac W. Jackson Isaac W. Jackson, Union class of 1826 and founder of Jackson's Garden. For more than 50 years Isaac W. Jackson devoted his life to this College. Jackson was born in Cornwall, Pennsylvania on August 28, 1804. Early in his childhood he exhibited many talents, in particular, a strong aptitude for mathematics and mechanics. At the age of 17, he was sent to the Albany Academy. Upon completing his studies at the Academy he entered Union College, where he attained high standing in the classics. Jackson graduated £rom Union with first honors in both mathematics and chemistry in the year 1826. Shortly after graduation he was appointed a Tutor by the College. While he was still attending Union he became actively in- terested in military drill. \Captain Jack\ as Jackson was often called received his commission from President Eliphalet Nott in the sununer of 1828 after he was unanimously elected to the post by \Com- pany A\ of the Union College Cadets. \Captain Jack\ was eventually promoted to major; however the nickname \Cap- tain\ always stayed with him. In the year 1831 Captain Jack was promoted to the Professorship of Mathematics. As Professor he wrote numerous books on subjects such as Trigonometry, Optics, Conic Sections, and Mechanics. His books were adopted and put to use in some American colleges and British in- stitutions. But Professor Jackson simply wrote them for the benefit of his own classes. He had no desire for publicity, but simply wanted to help his students. Professor Jackson had the degree of Doctor of Laws conferred upon him by Hobart College, but his modesty led him to hesitate before finally giving in and accepting the degree. Now that most of the truly important dates in Isaac Jackson's life have been alluded to we can turn to the real man, the man that has given so much to this College. Unfortunately, most people only seem to remember A Tribute To Isaac W. Jackson Jackson for his magnificent garden. However, there is much more to Jackson than his garden. He was deeply involved with the workings of the College; he wanted te see Union be a success. His whole life centered in and was bounded by his College. He spent all of his time in his famil.y circle, his study, the classroom or with members of the faculty. He was not interested in big public occasions because he had no desire for personal recognition. Professor Jackson turned into an affable teacher, a truly remarkable professor who made learning easier for his pupils. Jackson, being of Quaker heritage, entered Union with a strict code of discipline but the late President Nott, whom he loved and assisted most faithfully, modified Isaac's conception of discipline. In time, the impetuousity of his nature was mellowed through experience, inborn kindliness and Christian charity. His disposif;ion became such that students would always think favorably of Professor Jackson after being in one of his classes. Jackson affected the College community in other ways also . When fraternities were in their early years at Union Professor Jackson was an avid supporter. Professor Jackson believed that the students were in a stage of life where they most needed the cordial intimacy of elder friends, and that they might receive the right advice and counseling through the con- fidences of friendship that develop in the fraternities. Professor Jackson also thought that the Alumni from these fraternities would also be of great service in helping the undergraduates. Professor Jackson would always step in when he saw that the College needed help. For instance, right after the con- clusion of the Civil War, Union College was in critical con- dition. It had been declining . steadily during the years in prestige, influence and nwn- bers. Doctor Jackson was among one of the first to really comprehend this problem. Jackson sent out personali2ed \Union College may possibly have sent out graduates more illustrious, but among all her sons, she has never had one who has given his Alma Mater a more undivided, persistent and self-forgetful devotion. \ requests to the graduates to start organizing local Alumni Associations. It was hoped that these Associations would get the College back up on its feet so that its prestige could once again begin to prosper. It was Professor Jackson's in- volvement that turned the College back in the right direction. Even though the Professor spent many hours in the classroom he still found plenty of time to devote to \his\ garden. When Jackson first arrived at Union he found only a. few beds of poor flowers and vegetables. When he departed he left a garden which was well ordered, widely extended, filled with select plants, sr.ll'ubs, and flowers. His garden became one of the most attractive possessions of the College. Professor Jackson cultivated well over 300 varieties of roses. He corresponded with the best horticulturists in both England and America. He also con- tributed vast amounts of money to the maintenance of his garden at a time when salaries of collegiate professors were often declared to be too small to permit their enjoyment of the pleasures of the world. Professor Jackson stated privately just a short time before his death that he had put around $10,000.00 into the garden. The garden used to be used by Professor Jackson and President N ott to extend the reputation and influence of the College. President Nott used to invite the inquiring visitor, usually a potential donor, to call on Professor Jac~son for a walk through the garden. This walk would not only produce a pleasant general impression of the College, but it would em- phasize the beauties and the capabilities of the school. Professor Jackson's cordial hospitality was also very beneficial in these situations. Professor Jackson learned with much pleasure in the last year of his life that a fund had been projected for continuing his work in the garden. The culmination of Doctor Jackson's career finally came in 1876, at the semi-centennial anniversary of his connection with the college. All his friends and associates gathered to congratulate him on this momentous occasion and to pay tribute. Displaying his modesty in front of public crowds once again he had Governor Hoff- man, an old student, read the speech he had prepared. Just as Professor Jackson became conscious of failing powers, he ebbed tranquilly , away in his sleep. Selected material extracted from Discourses Com- memorative of Professor Tayler Lewis, LL.D., L.H.D., and of Professor Isaac W. Jackson, LL.D. and from Semi- Centennial Anniversary of the Connection of Professor Isaac W. Jackson with the Faculty of Union College 1876.

PageB FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY, May-11, 1984 - The History of FHL Day Fitzhugh Ludlow Day was first celebrated on April 21, 1979. When first conceived, it was meant to accomplish three major goals . .First, it was to be a buffer for the apathy ~overing the school. Ill a time of beavy feelings, Fitzhugh Ludlow Day was celebrated to promote student interaction. Second, it was to be organized by a committee of individuals doing something for the school rather than themselves. The committee was anonymous, therefore the members could not use the committee for resumes or transcripts. Third, and most importantly, Fitzhugh Ludlow Day was to be non-alcoholic. This is to show that fun can be had without the heip of alcohol. It is important that it is noted that this day is not anti- alcoholic, As Fitzhugh Ludlow I>ay approaches, we would like to remember those other worthy Union graduates who have been honored on this day in the past. In the beginning; it was Fit- zhugh who honored himself. Four years ago he became more traditional and honored squire Whipple. In 1981, two Union graduates were honored: Robert A. Toombs and William H. Seward And in 1982. Fit· zhugh honored Henry Wykoff. Last year, Mrs. Perkins became the first woman to receive the honor. Fitzhugh himself enjoyed. school, and will always be a strong remembrance of ~Fit­ :lhugh Ludlow in the hearts of all Union ~raduates. Fitzhugh Ludlow Day Union immensely. An 1856 graduate, he spent his days and nights in pursuit of good times as well as academic excellence. The H~sheesh Eater, his most well known literary work; was written with a sincerity and a. reality wllich be later had trouble recapturing. His \habit\ gave scope to his literary gift while in school, but it nevertheless led to his demise. Union's Alma Mater was written (perhaps under the influence) while he attended the. Squire (a given name, not a title or. a. nic~ame)' Whipple was a c1vil engmeer and an 1830 Union graduate. Quite different than Fitzhugh, . Whipple graduated· i8th out of 96 in his dass and was perfect in at- tendance and conduct. He began work for the railroad as a civil engineer and was given the task of better bridge· design. One .of his many ac- complishments ·in this area spans the \brook that bounds\ behind Achilles Rink. The Whipple Bowstring Truss was patented in 1855 and Whipple was recognized as the man who practically created the modem art of bridge con$truction. · , .. William H. Seward was from a h~let in Orange County in New York and came to Union becaw;~e of the reputation of President Nott. In the 1820's, Union was the college choice of· more undergraduates than Yale or Harvard. A good share of them came from ·the South. One of these studentS.; Robert A. Toombs, was to become part of a unigue combination .... two men 1rom the same college serving concurrently as the Secretary of State~. It could only have happened during the Civil War · when Toombs· (1828) was Secretary of State for the Confederacy and Seward (1820) was Secretary of State for the North. Toombs became the chief clerk for Jefferson Davis and soon after the war resumed a law practice. Seward left a more notable mark in history. He was governor of New York, a United States Senator, Secretary of State, and (his most notable accomplishment) was -responsible for the pur- chase of Alaska. · By W .T.SMYTIIE Nephew of Eustas Smythe This is the sixth Fitzhugh Ludlow Day, and since practice makes perfect, I'm already prepared for questions along the lines of: What is this all about? (By· the way, if you remember my Uncle Eustas, you are showing signs of age and had better be on the verge of graduation.) What it is all about today isn't far different from what it was all about back in the fall of 1978, when the first FHL committee convened in the Pub. What has changed is the context. 1978 was not a par- ticularly happy. year at Union. We had just come through the hockey scandals and the departure of President Bonner, and to say that morale was low is to put it mildly. A number of students felt that something needed to be done to restore morale, and thus they decided to organize a day in the spring to celebrate Union. There were a number of sub- themes in the way things were arranged: the day was to be non-alcoholic (not, I would like to point out, anti-alcoholic), to prove that Union students could have a good time without alcohol; there was to be an important component of Union's history, often unknown to students; and, the day was to be a surprise created by an anonymous committee, doing what it did for the sake of Union and not for personal recognition. U ntil1983, the day was held on Saturday, the administration not wanting to cancel classes on a weekday. Last year, happily, we were able to move to Friday, thus fulfilling tbe original in- tention. And what else have we done, besides proViding lots of super tee-shirts? Well, we've . brought you a lot of history, although perhaps not as much as we had wanted. And we have brought you some fun, I hope, although back in 1979 a number of people didn't think it fun to be awakened to shouts of \Wake up! Wake up! It's Fitz.hugh Ludlow Day!.\ And, we have brought Union certain traditions, starting with the day itself. The Alunini Office, quick to pick up on good ideas, followed our lead of fireworks on important occasions. In 1979, we set them off on the in- process-of-renovating · Garis Field. In 1980, we brought you a rerun of Apocalypse Now on Alexander Field, with live coals to be had for the picking up on University Place. Well, we always wanted to be in- teresting. And, thanks to Joe Zolner '76, Fitzhugh brought you the slogan \A Union of People\--and has always worked hard to make the slogan a reality. Because time flies when one is having fun, the history of Fitzhugh Ludlow Day never gets written down. So, before they are forgotten the honorees since the beginning are: Union's ''Relic'' In 20 years, when you think back on your time at Union, what will flash in your mind? A picture of the Nott Memorial rising out of the center of campus? The Skellar'? Jackson's Garden? Union has obviously changed greatly since the mid-nineteenth <Century, when a graduate sent the college a stuffed whale's penis in appreciation of his fine education. This questionable idol of the Union community is known as the \Relic.\ Apparently, the choice of such an esoteric and, we might venture, bizarre gift hinged upon Dr. Eliphalet Nott's reputation as a ladies' man. It seems that Nott's many years as President of Union were not solely filled with academic pursuits. A long line of alleged illegitimate children by local women attests to this. This rumor was well known at the time among students, faculty and the community. Nott's succession of 3 wives suggests that they learned of his ex- tracurricular activities. At the time, this graduate was captaining a trans-Atlantic ship. While at sea one day, the vessel collided with and killed a large whale. Nott's sexual prowess must have been the subject of a prodigious myth, for the Captain ordered the body be taken aboard, and the genitals removed. The phallus was then preserved, stuffed and sent to Nott. , Dr. Nott must have had quite a high opinion of himself, as well, for he supposedly loved the novel gift. Throughout the remainder of his career, the trophy stood in his office. Although the object would, of course, have had a limited usefulness, perhaps as a coat rack or a paperweight; it must have been a great conversation piece. The item became so cherished by the Union com- munity that it became a traditional ornament which graced the President's office. There it stood, through each President's term, polished every day, until its mysterious disappearance about 30 years ago. Now who every said history isn't interesting? 1979-Fitzhugh Ludlow, 198()-Squire .Whipple, 1981-8eward and. Toombs, 1982-Henry Wykoff, 1983-Mrs. Perkins, · 1984- Isaac Jackson. Enjoy Fitzhugh Ludlow Day. Have fun, and learn something about Union. Remember this day ••. Buy Your FHL T-Shirts Carnegie Hall Ring in fhe Day Henry Wykoff was a colorful character indeed. Of dubious origin, his birth and paternity were ·'both carefully and suc- cessfully concealed. He graduated from Union in 1832. 1 . . Early in his life he inherited a considerable fortune WhiCh enabled him to travel ex- tensively. It was said that no · other American of his period The Fitzhugh Ludlow Day Committee proudly .presents a day full of special en- tertainment surprises. We have · it all from jugglers to rock bands; from bells to pipers. Along with the day's en- tertainment highlight, the Sex Execs, the committee gives you a star-studded collection of student performances. The day's celebration beginS with the ringing of the bells in Memorial Chapel. Li~ MacKenzie, Ted Carlson and Barry Gilhnan will present a concert of Olde Union Tunes, traditional favorites and · modern melodies. · At 1:00 p.m., Steve Stronsky and his band will rock Library Plaza and ,Fitzhugh Ludlow Day will officially be off to a swinging start. Then, just to keep things up in the air, Luke Fannon will de:monstrate his juggling piz- zaz. At 2:30, Barry Cohen will entertain all with his comical wit. · Next, (you've seen her in Cabaret, you heard her when she won the talent ~how this winter tel'Ill), \She's the in• comparable Jodie Cohen. A master .of song, she's certain to sing her way into your heart. At five, mellow out and har- monize with Union's own Dutch Pipers. If you· haven't hea1,'d them yet, you're in for a· real treat. From Union songs to fifties tunes, they do it all. The last of the student acts and third place winners in thiS year's talent contest: Jim Hasenfeld, Mike Klein, Steve Dockery m1d friends will take you through the dinner hour with their own brand of music. · They'll warm you up for the evening's grand finale, beginning at ~:00, the Sex Execs. · . So, at 12:30, when the bells ring, come out to library plaza and help us celebrate Union. And don't ask for whom the bells toll ... they toll for \U.\ FHL Celebrates with FIREWORKS Friday, May 11th 9 pm at the Nott knew· as many ' European notables as Wykoff. His in- terests were. many--politics, diplomacy, journalism and theatre. The Reminisences of an Idler (1880) his most im• portant literary production, included many charming anecdotes and .profound ob- servations of his. life prior to 1840. He_ wrote of his years at Princeton, . \I doubt if I could have learned any less if I had been allowed to linger four years longer in Princeton, and to bask in idleness Under the lofty shade of the fine old campus, the pride of the college. n So much for the academic quality of Ivy League· schools. Last year, Anne Dunbar Perkins was honored by Fit- zhugh. Affectionately known as \Mrs~ PerkinS,\ she was .the wife of \one of Union's most respected professors,'' Professor Maurice Perkins, as well as mother-ln-law of · Professor Hale (of Hale House fame) with whom Mrs. Perkins resided after the death of her husband. She is most well known for her garden which is located next to the Skellar, and for her colorful spirit which made her a very well liked · .person at Union. And. so Fitzhugh is in business again. This marks the seventh annual celebration of Fitzhugh Ludlow Day, a day of food, fun, music and merriment. Can you think of a more deserving hOst? >- ~ II) .s E I'C ~ :>. \- \- I'C ....J :>. .0 E 0 J:: 0. t ( . I

- • FITZHUGH l-UDLOW DAY, Moy 11, 1984 Page C FHL salutes: ''Two From the Old School'' H. Gilbert Harlow A comlilittnent to one in- stitution for 44 years is ex- traordinary as well as quite admirable. H. Gilbert Harlow will be retiring this summer after joining the College community in 1940. As a professor of civil engineering and chairman of the depart- ment for 29 years, Harlow has made his mark in many halls including academia, hor- ticulture, .photography, business and fatherhood {he has five children~Priscilla,. Sally, Susan, Brad and neidi). , Although he does. not have a degree in biology, Harlow is a nationally known horticulturist. He has been a plant hybridizer for more than forty years and has . spoken to over fifteen himdred groups on the subject and even has a garden club named after him. He explains that,. ''A scientist discovers new knowledge and an engineer makes this knowledge useful to mankind., ae· has taken producing these flowering plants in grea.t numbers with as· little effort as possible. 'He for. mu1ated the system two and a half years ago. l{is ultimate objective istohavethese plants grow in the soil and he says that in a couple of weeks the first plant fromaUofhis work will be in bloom. Harlow hopes that every student who has an op- portunity tD do research will \follow it up and see if it is for them\ because, \Research is a real thrill!\ He adds that the \best type of .research is the kind where you can involve students. I'd love to have some students help. me~\ . After he retired., Harlow plans to continue his .research at his 200 year old horne in Schenectady. He says that his work is \very vewarding and exciti.Qg and at my age if I can still get excited then it must be a pretty .good bobby!'\ He adds; \Most people. try to figure out what it is they want to do when they grow up-Well, I've f()und it at 68!\ ;:... .;,(. .., c: E ro ~ :>. ,_ ,_ ro _J >- .c E 0 .c: ' 0. . Professor of Civil Engineer:ing H. Gilbert Harlow. biologists' knowledge of plant cloning (tissue culture), has applied engineering principles to it and has ·developed a four deck, :floor to ceiling apparatus which allows tiny hits of plants to . grow in large volumes without the risk of pathogens. He focuses on tuberous begonias and directs his efforts toward developing a system of Harlow's most rewarding experience at Union was with \his good friend Professor Huntley and the systematic area-by-area · landscaping program that they implemented in Jackson's Gardens and the rest of the Union grounds. For -every Dutch Elm tree lost there Were at least two trees plMted. Another rew~rding ex- Everyone Must Bring Their MEAL CARD. & I.D. CARD i.n order to eat free at the barbecue 1 f you are not on th,e meal pla_n- $2.00 perienee was when he was the movie photographer for all of Union's .footban games. He covered every home and away game. for 35 years. \I think I have seen more Union football games than any other living person!\ He will also never forget when Professor Huntley (Dean of Students at the time) requested approval for a new dormitory to be built in 1950 (West College). \The government asked for the construction date of the last dormitory and Huntley replied, \1814.\ They said, 'Oh, you must mean 1914,' and Huntley said 'No!-1 said 1814.' They gave us the okay!\ Professor Harlow has been of great service to Union, especially to the students. He is a dedicated professor-comes to work at 6 a.m.; l~aves at 5 p.m. He therefore has enough time to see his students and to do his research. lie explains that ''The profe~sors that do the most research usually have the least time for their students. One can get carried away.\ However, Harlow says that when a student comes in to talk, \I sit them down immediately and will spend whatever length of time it takes to solve what's on their mind.\ Last week he received a phone call from a 1949 graduate wanting to know how he was. \It's the people at Union that I will remember and miss the most! \ - Without being overly sen- timental, we would simply like to thank Professor Harlow for doing what we think he does best-teaching. Few scholars can present their material in a challenging yet delicate manner. The campus com- munity will be at a loss without, and we say this with affection and respect, Pr-ofessor Harlow . , C .. William Huntley We would like to take this time to salute and thank Professor Huntley who has been one of the major backbones of Union College for many years. Huntley graduated from Union in 1934 and returned from Harvard Graduate School in 1947 as dean of the college. Although he left the dean's office after twenty years in order to teach, he has .gone back and forth whenever he has been needed. Assistant Librarian Ruth Ann Evans stated that \Professor Huntley was the first dean that did not take a strict authoritarian type of rule. He seemed to be the first dean that was very understanding of the students' problems.\ Huntley was asked to return as Provost due to the Bonner incident. President Bonner was preSident from 1974 to 1978. During this time many talented hockey players were admitted in order to boost the hockey team's standards. It seems, however, that President Bonn,er admitted. many hockey players who were not up to Union's academic standings. This upset many of-the professors, faculty and atbninistrators and as a result Union nearly fell apart. President Bonner left Union ina state of shambles. It was Huntley who took over and helped pull the school back together. Not only .has Huntley been a strong arm in holding up. Ufiion'~ academics but he has also contributed to Union's grounds. The Elmtree was the primary tree used in the land- scaping of Union during the last century. The American Elms grew and formed a line of beautiful canopies which surrounded all the major ,campus roadways. Unfor- - Professor of Psychology C. William Huntley. tunately, the Elms reached their climatic size just as Dutch Elm disease arrived in Schenectady. As a result of this disease, one could only find scattered remnants of these trees three decades later. Professors Huntley and Harlow worked to restore hundreds of trees that were lost during this epidemic. Huntley also helped in the restoration of the college clock over the old Memorial Chapel. While most people were not paying attention to the clock, Huntley felt that it was a wonderful piece of old machinery that shOuld not be neglected. In addition, the bells that work the chimes were in terrible C()ndition yet Huntley restored them back into shape. Professor Huntley is presently writing a book about things which have happened at Union over the years. Included are serious issues, such as what has happeiled to tuition over the years as well as lighthearted issues such as Union's old social norms. He is thinking about calling it \The Way It Was.\ Huntley believes that \a lot of interesting things have hap- pened and if they are not written down then a lot of them will be forgotten.\ Huntley recalls how the social life has changed over the years - at Uruon.· In the past most ofthe social life was organized around the fraternity houses and ahnost all of the social life was on campus. A party was · usually held before Thanksgiving or there was a Junior Prom and the male students would invite women from other schools or from their home towns. Some of the men had to give up their houses for this period of time in order to form a women's dormitory. On the first night of this event there was a majDr party held in the Old Gym and on the second ni~ht each fraternity had its ·own party. All of the professors and deans were invited to each fraternity house and made their rounds during the night. Huntley seems to recall a much closer relationship between the faculty and the students at the' time. He states, \I remember when the professors and deans were invited to dinner at least once a week by a fraternity. The dinners were kept very fomtal and therefore the men had to wear coats and ties to every meal It was all nice back then, but cheer up, you know how the pendulum swings. One of these days someone will rediscover evening dresses, coats and ties and they will be back into the fraternity scene! \ Huntley believes that Union~s academics hav~ changed a lot as well in that they have gotten a little more difficult and much more specialized. As the size of the student body grew from 800 to 2,000, the size of different departments also ex- panded. There are now also many more specialists within the departments. Huntley also · believes that the flavor of the f;:tculty has changed in that there is less emphasis on teaching and more. emphasis on research. When asked what his major concerns were in sustaining Union's high quality of education, Huntley stated that classes should be kept smaller, which can be done if the college population diminishes in size. He also thinks that the. faculty should be more accessible to the students. He believes that it is unfair to have set office hours only on certain days but instead thinks that the faculty sbould be available at all times. Although Huntley is retiring and moving off campus he will still keep busy both at home and in the college community. He plans to teach at least one section of Psychology 10 and to return to his private practice of counseling. One can see that Professor Hruttley has been a major support system at Union College. We would like to extend our thanks and salute him on this Fitzhugh Ludlow Day. I FHL Trivia - off I How much do you know about Union? In the Fitzhugh Ludlow Day tradition of highlighting Union's history, this year's committee bvings you the first annual Fitzhugh Ludlow Trivia· off. This is your chance to demonstrate how much Union trivia you've absorbed, ttl learn a few Wliinportant but in· teresting tidbits of Union trivia, impress your friends and, if you -· are the top scorer in your class,. to win a free Fitzhugh Ludlow tee-shirt. Finally, the top scorers from each class will h~ve the opportunity to represent their class ih the Trivia-off finals. The final results will be recorded for posterity on a plaque which will be a welcome addition to the student center. The questions will come from many sources: the catalog, the handbook, alumni and an. ob- servational walk through campus. Not only will prizes be awarded to the finalists, but anyone scoring 85 percent or above in the first round will be awarded free tickets good for food and other events. So, try your hand ... Pledge classes unite! ! Gatesman take the challenge! ! See how well YOU do in the first annual Fitzhugh Ludlow Trivia-offt ! \'· \

>- ~ 1/1 c E 10 ~ >- ..... ..... 10 ...J >- ..0 E 0 .J::. c. PageD FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY, M11y JJ, 1984 Jackson's Gardens, one of Isaac W. Jackson's greatest contributions to Union. FHL 12:30 1:00 1:30 2:00 2:30 .3:00 3:30 \ 4:00 4:30 5:00 5:30 6:00 6:30 7:00 9:00 LibraryPiaza Bells Concert Steve Stronsky Luke Fannon Barry Cohen Water · Balloon Toss Chester Arthur Pie-in-the-Face 4-6 .m. llarbecue Live from Boston The Fihhugh Lu~l~w Day CommiHee presents The SEX !EXECS Only two years old the band has toured with such groups CIS Tile· Stompers, _Motels and the Stray Cat;s Calling themselves a ''new wave .. - rhythm · and blues band,'/ the Sex Execs promise to be a great· ad- dition to Fitzhugh Ludlow Day 1984! Don't forget to see Th,e SEX EXECS in Library Plaza 7-9 P~m. · (in case o.f ra:in, go to Alumni Gym!> FI·REWORKS Immediately Following The Show!!! Carnegie Hall Ice cream,· Gra .. iti board T-Shirts All day At the Nott TRIVIA FIREWORKS

President of the Union Staff Association, Yvonne Huxhold airs the difficulties faced. by staff members at Union. Schehe<;·tady, New York May 17, 1984 Staff· Grievances Voiced BySARAHCALl>ERINI Staff The title of \staff member,\ according to the Union Staff Manual, \does not apply to faculty and salaried ad· ministrative staff members.\ A staff member then, may hold the position of a secretary, a . physical plant worker, a · security officer or any number of hourly paid employees of the College. A group of these staff members have recently formed the Union College Staff Association. Membership is presently at 90 members and meetings are held once a month from September through May. Accor<Ung to Secretary of the Modern Language Department and President of the Union Staff Association, YvcC;Jni1e Hmdlold, \The meetings are the O!IIY place we have to sit and discuss common problems.'' Reco~tionDtserved The Staff Association minority status.\ But, Huxhold asks, \What about other work- related problems? There is no fotnlal place to go.\ In addition to the problem of having no vehicle by which to voice .problems, the Staff Association believes that there should be a routine employee review procedure. A review is - not scheduled unless a worker asks for. one to be performed concerning his-her position. According to the Staff Manual, \Matt~rs which shall not be c.onsidered . . . include em- ployees' rate of compensation (and) type of work assigned.\ Even if reviews are requested, Huxhold says that \often times people wait more than a year for an answer.\ College Builds On Ideas generally believes that it is not given the recognition. it deserves. Many staff positions involve a great deal of in- teraction with the students and because of this inteNcti()n, the staff members want more representation in the College's governance system. Tile members believe that they are not.given an adequate chance,to · get involved in other aspects of college life. \Ninety percent of tile problem,\ says Hilxh<ild, \is that the Admini~tration won't listen. At our last (March) meeting, Vi~~ President fDr Finance and Administration John Hauser, was opposed to a formal recognition of ollr organiz~tion, seeing it merely as a social organization.\ Vice President of the Union Staff Association, Neila Harrigan, claims that \the only time a position is evaluated is when someone leaves and it is evaluated for the incoming worker.\ The Staff Association believes that all aspects of a position should be reviewed on a regular basis. By DAVE MARIN Staff Wlill.e most of the Union community knows about the upcoming construction of a campus student center to be located at Carnegie Hall and the proposed renovations of Alumni Gym, very few people are aware of the many changes that will be made to other parts of the campus. These changes will include removing and adding parking lots and road$. Also, the construction of a new building will take place. The changes have been proposed by the Administration with the help of . Campus Planner Jack Litinsky of ' ' . ;, ... Vice Pre~icttl.rit for Finance, J(llln H.a user ·;' ;,;._:· t:;-; ·. · · · ·. · · Sa~atoga Ass~~hit~s. The-prnns~ whwh have recently been · submitt,ed to the Planning and Priorities Colllll}ittee. for review and will soon be presentedto the Board of Trustees, are not yet in their final stage. However, basic outlines have been developed for each of the. projects to be undertaken. College Center: Additions and modifications will be made to ~arn~gie Han to provide an mter1or \campus-crossroads The major faeilities presently Planned-to•be included are Food Service, the . Campus Store, Student Activities and a film room. According to Vice- President for Finance ·and Administration, John Houser, the dining bali in Carnegie will not be open to freshmen and West Dining Hall will continue to operate as it presently does. Hauser indicated that there was .~ very strong feeling, par- ticularly among the students, that (West) did somethilig good for the freshman class and should be continued.\ Hale will probably no longer function on a daily basis but will probably be used instead for receptions, conferepces, and seminars, which Hauser believes is a \good use for that facility.\ There will also be a pub-like facility in the Campus Center, though the actual fonn has not yet been deterlllined. When asked whether this would take the place of the Skeller, Hauser stated \the future ofthe Skeller, as far as I know, ·has not been determined.\ Alumni Gym: The bUilding will be enlarged and the existing structure modified to accommodate expansion and upgrading of facilities. Probable changes include, but are not limited to, an eight lane nstretch pool,'' new locker facilities, an improved or new gym court, squash-handball . courts, and improvements in ~xisting facilities. Many ideas -·ha:ve been brought forward, but the final plan has not yet been ·determined . . : J~Iaking the building larger may necessitate moving the pJ}ltfoim tennis courts, though a site -for them has not yet been . ···designated. Central Services : This building will be constructed in the parking area between the Physical . Plant Building and Butterfield Hall and designedto blend in with the surrounding buildings~ with the intention of screening the Physical Plant and Security buildings. The facility will house a machine shop, storage areas, and a print shop. The machine Shop, presently located in the Mechanical Engineering · Lab behind Carnegie, will be torn down for the expansion of the Student Center. The print shop is currently located .in the basement of Lamont House. Hauser sites several reasons for locating the building in this particular sp(lt. This would be an appropriate location since tile main users of the machine shop would be in the Science Center and this would afford them ready-access to the supplies and materials they need. This Will also serve to screen the buildings behind it. Hauser also e:xpressed concern . over the foot travel that passes through the parking area there. Hauser believe& that closing the area off .would force peopl_e to walk in otner areas where there are not trucks and cars con- stantly driving around. Essential to understanding the proposed changes in the traffic and parking patterns is the College's desire to become a \walking-campus.\ Hauser explained that baek in the mid· 1970's a master plan for the campus was developed which \advocated and received strong support for the, interior of the campus being · a walking Continued on page 5 The Staff Assocfation does not know if the problems are a result of the governance system's structure or simply a lack of communication between the association and the Administration. One of the problems is that the Staff Association's grievances are not recognized officially by the school. The Staff Manual states that \grievances are limited to cases of perceived discrimination based on sex: or Harrigan states that \our main coneern · is their (the Administration's) lack of concern.'' At the Staff Association's last meeting where Hauser spoke, Harrigan said that many of those who attended believed that \he was only telling us what we wanted to hear.'' According to Harrigan, Hauser believes that, indeed, the staff is an important and necessary part of the College community, yet the Staff Association questions Coniinued on page~ Eddie Money at Proctor's last sunday, May 13th. MonE;y's performance was the concert Committee's last sllow before Camp Union.

• • • • • • • /loge 1 CONCORD/f.\'NSI~: M(ly 17. /984 \Union Goes to Washington \ • • • Internship Discussed By LYNN HANO btl· 't · · t ·t' f d 1 d. . . t l S Staff ~ · 1 Y, ~xpec a Ions o a !I chal enge . app~opr1a; e y. o~e Interest m the .program, m- of ·the offtces 10 which Umon volvement in relevant ex- interns· have been placed in· tracurricular activities and elude: Representati¥e Austin recommendations from. faculty Murphy- D-Penn., Senator members. Although it is im- Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., porf;ant to have a background in Senator Daniel Patrick American politics, .Political Moynihan, D- N.Y., and Science Department Chairman· Representative Marge Frederick Hartwig stresses that Roukema, R-N.J., to name just one need not be a political a few. Interns have also served science major to participate in in S~.Jch · organizations as the the program. Students Northeast-Midwest Coalition, majoring in the natural Comm.on Cause, and the sciences, engineering and the Democratic Congressional humanities have been selected Campaign Committee. Political Science Professor Frederick Hartwig will lead the term in Washington., D.C. next spring. A meeting will be held tomorrow in ss 115. Every spring term since 1977, Union's Political Science department has offered a term in Washington, D.C. Students must apply for the program in the spring of the preceding year. Out of those who apply, 20 students are chosen to serve as interns in the nation's capital, usually in Congressional of- fices. Sophomores, juniors and seniors are all eligible, although the majority of participants tend to be juniors. The selection is based on academic performance, writing Rathskeller Opening .· For Prom Weekend (Taken from November 4, 1949 issue of Concordiensis.) Tentative plans call for the opening of the Dutchmen's Rathskeller for prom weekend, if work progressing in the cellar of old chapel is finished by then. The long awaited opening of the lounge and snack bar will culminate a project which began nearly a year ago and has had a stormy career. Chronogically, the Rathskeller arose as follows: December 5, 1948: Student faculty conference at Tip- pecanoe discusses possibility of erecting . a Rathskeller on campus. December 10, 1948: Board of trustees gives council authority for running gathering place in basement of old chapel. Trustees agree to equip basement with entrance and toilet facilities. February 15, 1949: Student council ratifies constitution of proposed Rathskeller, calling for organizat.ion into group named Dutchmen's Rathskeller, directly respon- sible to council. February 28, 1949: Drive for funds forRathskeller opens, with goal of $3,000, half this amount necessary for opening. March 18, 1949: Delphic Society, under fire from student body because of proposed purchase of blazers, contributes $700 to rathskeller fund. April 8, 1949:. Wilford Ketz requests that work be held up UPtil fund reaches $2,000. Fraternity pledges total about $500. May 6, 1949: Elliott reports that student assistance in construction is disappointing. July-August: College con- structs additional entrance and toilet facilities in basement -of old chapel. September 22, 1949: Elliott elected general manager; Charles Lindstrom, business manager; and Martin Mandel, secretary of Dutchmen's Rathskeller. October 23, 1949: Graduate council meeting discusses inadvisability of selling beer on campus. Officers feel Rathskeller· cannot function successfully without beer. November 5, 1949: Hope expressed that snack bar will be open for business on .prom weekend by officers. Staff Association Talks Continued from page 1 \whether or not he means what he says.\ Worthy of Recognition \I feel strongly that the staff members are worthy of rec(lgnition,\ says Hauser. He believes that the external factors, the students and faculty, are the groups which give a school a name, but that the internal factors, the staff, are essential to keep the school running. Hauser defines \staff member\ in a different way from the Staff Association. He believes that \any non-faculty personnel is staff,\ thereby including himself. · . Addressing the issue of representation, Hauser s~ys, \The staff does have a vmce. There is one staff member on both the Planning· and Priorities Committee and the Campus Operations Committee.\ Hauser does not \know how many voices they want.\ Hauser has recognized the problems of the Staff Association. He believes that his concern is apparent by his attendance at the last meeting. \At the meeting,\ Hauser continues, \I told them to please tell me specifically what their concerns are and, as of Q:i late, I have not heard from ~ them.\ · m only partly with Huxhold's cl:;Jim that reviews are often delayed, Hauser does not know of any cases taking so long and says that delays are typical in an organization such as a college. \To some extent, these are problems which have been going on at all colleges for the past 200 years and most likely will continue for the next 200 years,\ Hauser says. \But he goes on to say, \this does not mean that we, can ignore them.'' A barrier has been con- structed somewhere to prevent communication between the Staff Association and the Administration. Hauser says, '~To use the old cliche, the door is always open.\ The Staff Association, however, does not take advantage of his offerings . because it believes that no one will listen. A vicious cycle will continue until moves are made to stop it and break down the barriers between the ,two major governing bodies. Hauser sees the Association as .c · be t a social organization cause ro members \must pay dues in order to be represented. If someone is not willing to pay then they cannot be heard as a member in the Staff Association.\ He agrees with the Staff Association point \that there should be some standardized method for reviewl'' Agreeing Anne LaBastille taught a weekend course in· ism at Union May 11-13, offered through the Office of Graduate and· Continuing studies. She also presented a slide·ilhi'strated lecture, open to the public on \The Adirondacks-My Backyard\ Friday, May 11, at a p.m. in SS016. in the p~;~.st. Hartwig explains that interns Hartwig ~ays, . , ''having begin by doing menial' work, the knowledge m btology or wgrunt work'' that has to be economics can be a help in done. If they show they can do Wlderstanding public policy.'' that work, then the students are Students are encouragedtotake given more responsibility. \Contemporary American Students usually start by sor- Politic~\ and \Congressional ting the mail. Although this Politics\ prior to the seems trivial, it: allows them to Washington term, however; learn what kind of mail comes It is comforting to know that in and who the constituents are. when it comes to housing Union Interns then may begin· to students are not left on their respond to mail, and find out own. The College arrang~s for where the Congressman stand~ all interns to be housed In the on particular .issues. Much of same apartment--hotel. By the mail is informational; living and talking together, the therefore, an intern might have Union students develop a sense to research or contact different of camaraderie and they learn committee staffs to get replies. much about the other interns' Last spring, one Vnion intern responsibilities as well as their wrote a position for own. Representative Austin Murphy Students get three credits as which was entered into the part of the Washington term. Congressional Record. Students The first credit is for the actual should not be under the illusion internship, In which a weekly that as interns they will be journal is kept to record what writing legislation, but they do the intern did each week. The serve an important function. second credit is for the 20 page Hartwig says, \What they are research paper written on a doing is -participant ob- public policy in conjunction servation, trading their labor with the internship. The final for the opportunity to observe credit is for the course which all the legislative process from the 20 Union students take. This inside.'' Part . of the work they course is not related to political are doing, themselves, but.most science, but does take ad- importantly, they can see from vantage of the Washington the inside what others are doing location. In the past, there has and know what major been a course on \Museum legislation is going on at the Anthropology,'' taught at the· time. The internship, Hartwig Smithsonian Institute, and a says, \offers an alternative way course on the \Architecture of of learning about public the Federal Capital\ both policy.\ Having gone down to classified as art history cour- Washington last spring, Hart- ses. The third course meets one wig observed a great amount of morning a week and involves personal growth in the students. field trips around Washington. \In Washington, they were The program also includes operating in an adult world and weekly evening seminars in were learning how to be an Which people involved in all adult in a white-collar con- different areas in Washington temporary American society. informally speak with the Students work hard at Capital students. In the past, the Hill and play hard at program has included speakers G.eorgetown.\ from such places as the In terms of long range goals, Department of State, the the term in Washington is Central Intelligence Agency, helpful in orienting Union the federal judiciary, students toward possible Congressional staffs and careers in. Washington in the campaign organizations as well .future. The internship does not as journalists from the print usually lead to specific jobs in and broadcast media. Washington. Instead it allows Most of the students' time is spent on Capital Hill working as an intern. Intern'$ work in their office four full dli}rs a week for the entire 10 week term. The faculty director this coming spring, Hartwig, consults regularly with work supervisors to assure that the interns are meeting expectations and being students to be familiar with how the actual legislative process works. Hartwig stresses that, \Interns are not learning a trade, they are learning first- hand about politics.\ Anyone interested in the Washington term this coming spring should attend the in- formational meeting Fri_day, . May 18, at 1:30 p.m. in SS 115. Term in Washi·ngton The only informational meeting on the political science department in Washington Term for next spring will be held on Friday, May 18th at 1:30 p.m.· in SS115. At that 'tfrne, applications wil'l be made available- to prospective par- ticipants. :If you are interested in the p.rogram but cannot attend this meeting, you should see Professo.r H~rtwig in 55119. The program is open both to political science majors and students in oth.er majors. The program is scheduled for spri.ng term 1985. S . a1 OnW p.m.,tt the Ur Council Board, studenf board · and C1 Thurlo• preside Interf preside Andre~ corrimi Joseph student Union'~ presider board; Humplu director Regis began tl synopsll: history: about b terest. ' ning it v Council, Student In th College': granted Council1 operatic departm Hall. I followin! Council1 Rathske: creating organiz: students busy cU. project. was rai~ fall, vo: front anc and tab also pai ment ar work foJ summer construc1 and ins1 and st01 prevent .j 2, 1949, 1 business. s: Accord brief hi Decem be the \Sk student a managen unpaid c reinveste equipmeJ improvh facilities. this , p« became!, service, conditiQn dropping midt, thE service ~ items\ w In the Dutchm student adviser < decided i1 in the fall manager Accordin1 tioned hi~ fall of 196 open; ne Food Ser contract (the) Ske contract Directors Student C the .l~gal the asset; (The) organiza existence. of the ~ although

CONCORDIKNSJS, May, 11, l984 Page3 Skeller Board Meets and Talks of History By·GAYLE ROSENFELD News Editor On Wednesday, May 9 at 3:30 p.m., the Board of Directors of the Union College Student Council, Inc., or the Rathslceller Board, met in the dean of student's conference rootn. The ·board was in full attendance and consists of Winthrop Thurlow, Student Forum president; Roger Harris, Interfraternity Council president; Brian Laux and Andrew George, Finance Committee co-chairmen; Joseph Mammola; dean of students; Calvin Schmidt, Union's registrar and the president's ~ppointee to the board; and Seniors Thomas Humphrey and Daniel Savrin, directors~~t-large. · Registrar Calvin Schmidt began the meeting by giving a synopsis of the Rathskeller's history: \The Skeller came about because of Student in- terest. The authority for run- ning it was given to the Student Council,\ now known as the Student Forum. In the fall of . 1948, the College's Board of Trustees granted the authority to the Council to maintain a snack bar operation in the geology department's basement, Stoller Hall. In February of the following year, the Student Council ratified the Dutchman's Rathskeller's constitution, thus creating a new student activity organization. By March, students, faculty and staff were busy collecting funds for the project. An eventual $3,278.30 was raised. In the spring and fall, volunteers constructed front and back bars, and booths and tables. These volunteers also painted, installed equip- ment and did the electrical work for the Skeller. In the summer of 1949, the College constructed the front entrance, and installed toilet facilities and storm sewer pumps to prevent flooding. On December 2, 1949, the Skeller opened for business. Skeller's History According to the Skeller's brief history outline, from December, 1949 to June, 1961 the \Skeller operated as a student activity with day-to-day management in the hands of unpaid. officers.· Profits were reinvested in fUrnitme and equipment over the years, thus improving the original facilities. In the latter part of this , period management became lax, with resultant .poor service, incre~sing unsanitary conditions and, consequently, dropping patronage.\ Said Sch- midt, the Skeller \was filthy, service was poor, and menu items\ were often unavailable. In the spring of 1961, the Dutchman'·s Rathskelle'r student officers, · the faculty adviser and dean of students ?ecided not to open the Skeller m the fall unless a professional manager could be employed. According to the aforemen- tioned historical outline, in the fall of 1961 the \Skeller was not open; negotiations with Saga Food Service resulted in (a) contract for Saga to operate (the) Skeller on a year-to-year contract with the Board of Directors of the Union College Student Council, Inc.; which is the .l~gal entity holding title to the assets of the Rathskeller. (The) student activity organization went out of existence. Major refurbishing of the Skeller took place, although the physical layout and appearance was un- changed.\ Since Saga· Food Service entered the scene, there has been a professional manager on duty at the Skeller. At first, Saga Food Service was very reluctant because it had never been some place where a liquor license was invoked \ said Schmidt. ' In January, 1962 the Rathskeller reo.pened under Saga's management and operation WCI:$ sul;lject to the annual renewal of a contract by Saga and the Corporation. This latter organization was also quite important in the beginning of the Skeller. According to New York State law, only an in• dividual or a corporation can acquire a beer-liquor license. The then coordinator of student activ·ities, Wilford H. Ketz, acquired the license in his own name in 1949 and ''then he proceeded to have the Cor- poratioh formed,\ said Sch- midt. In the spring of 1950, the license was placed in the Corporation's name. It is for this reason the Corporation was established. \It did, however, become the legal entity that held all the assets of the student activity organization,\ said Schmidt. The Union College Student Council, Inc. is a non• profit, membership cor- poration. Originally its mem- bership was the entire student body. However, that was changed so that only the· members of the Student Council (Student Forum) constituted the membership. In September of 1978, Union's Food Service .began operation of the Skeller under an annual contract with the Corporation. Originally in order to obtain the basement of Stoller Hall for the Skeller, the Dutchman's Rathskeller student activity had to acquire a yearly lease for the premises from the College.- This was accomplished. The terms of the lease required that the student organization pay the College· $1 annually for the rights to the area. Therefore \the eXistence of the Skeller does depend on access to the building,\ said Schmidt; \consequently the College owns the key\ to the entire operation. After this information was delivered,· new officers for the Board of Directors for the remainder of this academic year were selected. Junior Brian Laux was named president of the board, junior Roger Harris became vice president; Calvin Schmidt was named secretary, Dean Mammola was named assistant secretary and Thomas Hum~ phrey became treasurer. Dean Mammola was then asked to respond to the question of the Skeller's future. Many rumors have been floating around the campus lately and he was asked to clear up any misconceptions on the part of the student body. Said Matnmola, \My own feeling is that at least for the next couple of years, it's (the Skeller's) going to stay the way it is\ unless a change in the state'·s legal drinking age en- sues. However, Mammola did present a list of concerns about the Skeller: \There is a major structural problem with the Skeller facility at the moment.\ The architectural firm of Saratoga Associates underwent a survey of . the Skeller in December; 1982. In this report, a number of problems were cited with the facility. There has been a \continual deterioration of the en- , viromnental space\ in the building, said Mamn'lola. There are some problems with overheating, humidity, moisture, and aging kitchen equipment in the Skeller. New Health Codes Also, in 1985 there will be some new statewide health and safety codes which could have adverse effects on the Skeller's continued survival, noted Mammola. Currently a grand· father dause exists with the old clauses, but this will be obsolete with new codes in 1985. Mammola added, \We are going to haveto make a decision Continued on page 5, Registrar Calvir:~ Schmidt gives a synopsis of the Skeller's history. Finance Budget Approved •.. F orumHears Reports By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor ''As present committee ch_airpersons, we must object to the Committee on Committees' (CoC) selection process of next year committees' chairpeople. We feel that without the input of the present committee heads, the CoC cannot make a com- pletely fair decision,\ stated Film Committee CoChairperson -Andrew Rosen at this week's Student Forum meeting con- cerning the present CoC selection process of committee chairpersons for next ,year .. As is standard meeting procedure, the committee reports were presented first. Student Representative to the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) Jamie Danziger presented a synopsis of the AAC's activities. Several new courses were approved by the AAC. These include: History 115, \The History of the American Family,\ and Civil Engineering 14 (a half-course), \Building and Construction.\ A proposal was made by the sociology department to change the nature of the degree offered by the department. The proposed change would make the graduate degree a Bachelor of Arts degree in Sociology- Anthropology. At least two courses in anthropology would be required for the major. In order t() be appmved by the AA.C, the proposal would have to receive approval from the state before action could be taken. Nekt, Chairman of the Elections Committee Doug Landon pr.esented the results of this,past Friday's election. (See box with announcement of the winners). It was also announced by Landon that the proposed resolution to still consider seniors who graduate after winter term as students passed. In a related incident, Fresh- man Representative Ste.ven Moss made a moti<>n in which the .Sophomore Representative candidates who made un- necessary expenditures for a · runoff election (which was not held) be reimbursed by the forllln. This motion was passed unaniinously by the forum. Chairman of the Finance Conunittee (FC) Brian Laux: reported upon the FC' s ac- tivities for the past week. On Friday, May 11, the committee met t() make up the proposed 19&4415budget. (The budget was later proposed for approval under \new business\ at the meEting). A.t its last scheduled meeting, the C()mmittee allocated the Black-Latin Alliance of StLtdents (B.L.A.S.) an ad- diti()nal $240 for its upcoming senior dinner, with the con- tingency of B.L.A.S. 's bringing back $210 in income. The money, which would cover up- front · costs, would be br()ught back through charging of ad- mission at the dinner (to the non-seniors). Instead of ap- proving the measure proposed by the FC, the forum amended the measure to provide full funding for the B.L.A.S. dinner. The conunittee also recently adopted a policy which will allow members of on-campus publications to receive free tickets in order to cover those events for a future issue. The issue arose because of the refusal to admit a photographer to a campus-sponsored event. The new policy, according to the motion, is as follows: \The Finance Conunittee moves that organization heads permitted one free admission (one reporter and-or one photographer) for an event to be covered in a future issue. This motion affects Con- cordiensis and Garnet. The tickets to these events should be obtained in advance.\ Lastly, the committee switched sorrie line items in the Women's Rugby Club's budget. The focus of the meeting then turned to ''old business.\ Presently, the forum has submitted its version of the Pub video system contract. Food Service has not responded to the proposed changes. Continued on page 5 Campus-Wide Election Winners President-Steven Benson 443 V .P. Administration-Bile Brand 484 V.P. Finance-BrianLaux 479 Junior Trustee-Andrew George 477 A.A.C. Rep.-Tom Megerian 475 A t()1al of 721 students voted 61% 67% 66W, 66?£, 66% • The proposal on Seniors\vllo graduate at the end of winter term passed 475- 187. Class Representative WinDers Class of '85 (198 yoters) Doug Landon Lynn O'Brien Mary Phillips Class()f'86 (159 vot0rs) Chris Siler Beth Bernell ( allfne ran unopposed) Dave Marin-19 write-in votes Eric Lipman--18 write-in -votes • Run-off Friday, May 18 Julie Mountain Steve Moss Steve Lipsky Cl~ss of '87 (249 -voters) <98 89 88 113 87 125 98 78 50% 45% 44% 71% 51)!% 50% 40% 31%

Page4 CONCONiJit:N.\'J,\: Ma.r 17, 1984 There will be another meeting for work shift sign-ups on Thursday, May 17 at 4:30 ,in Strauss Lounge. If people do not sign up for certain shifts which are presently empty, the beer trucks wi II be forced to leave for that hour. We cannot have \open taps.\ SIGN UP NOW! If you want to eat at Camp Union's B-B-Q you must get a ticket: Meal plan members get 2 punches punched on Thurs. and Fri. at regular meals. and receive ·tickets. Or ... Non-meal members pay $5.00 at table in C~r­ negie on Mon.-Fri. afternoons and g.et tickets. Biology Department Picnic Friday, May 18th in Jackson's Gardens 1:00-4:00 p.m. Seniors $l. 00 Others $2.00 tickets available at the Biology Department Office & the ticket office in Carnegie AnENTION GRADUATES Orange Motors has a College Graduate Finance Plan No Previous Credit Required Very Little Down No Co-Maker Necessary First Annual Air Band Co:ntest Fr:iday afternoon, May 25 on West Beach in conjunction with the Student Band Concert. ''Shew how untale·ntecl· you really are!'' Get your band tog.ether and enter. A NYT,H IN G GOES. If Y9U wish to enter or if. you have any questions, ca'll Mike Kl-ein at 381-9540 o:r drop a note with your name and phone numbe:r to Box 579 . ACT NOW! The more acts we .have the better Friday afternoon: Bands and beeron West· .• Beach af4: 00. Friday ni.ght: Movies and beer on Library'. Plaza at 8:30 , · Saturday afternoon: Bands, beer, and food on West Beach. S~turday night: comedians on Library . HOW IN THE WORLD DID YOU ACCUMULATE ALL THAT STUFF . THIS YEAR? ... And what are you going to do with it? Adirondack . Trailways will ship your bags, boxes. suitcases, trunks, books, teddy bears, bikes, skates. skis, cartons, records, bundles and laundry home for you 2 . . 0 % reg.ular package at OFF e ><press rates Just show your student to. card to our package e~press ... ... and let us do the rest! I;:FFECTIVE 4/23/84 - 6/15/84 For Details & Appointment Call Orange Motors 799 Central Ave. Albany, NY 12206 Ask for Joe Bruno or Vince Crista ldi 489-5414 For Information Call: Adirondack Trailways, The Travel Center 22 State Street, Schenectady (518) 346-3415or436-9651,ext.l7 P.S. We'll take you home too! ByU Unde Profess English soon .h center. located Stoller I the fall Durini year, 1 sa'bbati allowed colleges centers Skidmoi Techno] Carleton Frankl ill Bucknell Nelson, visited, 1 the· mo: college different the writi1 the cUrl mainly English.' Althou working center, hi as to wl Stoller H finished Film Co Continue~ TheSkel meeting c Presently meda coz the possit regulatio formation its next n Discuss! area of ' Chairper: Committ1 presented the curre selecting· mittee ch~ paragraph \The pre: person m1 CoC with .formation not availa presently l applicant's to that c• Continued f finalty in tl about the Skeller wi1 center. \'I different Skeller,\ ~ the Skeller' new center Theques1 State drill associated · legal age Governor 1 like, it woul (the) natu campus. If sense to : liquor fac majority oi able to drir Although tl Two vis Daniels/C Monday, 1. and actlvi discuss \ Public: Off 28, the su Paign,\ to Issues cc President, Wlllingh North Car Sity, Atla~ has writte . eldridge tlclpation ; Wlllirigh,

CONCORDIENS/S, May 17,1984 Writing Center tO· Start By GAYLE ROSENFELD New~ Editor Under the auspices of Professor Alan Nelson of the English department, Union will soon have its own writing center. This complex win be located on the second floor of Stoller Hall and is set to Qpen in the fall term. only an \empty car.peted space,\ said Nelson. It needs furniture, a small library, a telephone and possibly a Xerox machine and even word processors. However, this latter equipment may not be available at the beginning .. tutors will do the best they can. They will help students, but as Nelson puts it,. the tutors are \not hete to help the paper, they're here to help the writer.\ The center will \help the clients help themselves,\ added Nelson. The tutors are not to write papers, but merely to act as assistants to those students who may need a little guidance .. Students with different types of writing needs, from occasional help to more of a long term arrangement, and from all majors are encouraged to visit the center this fall. PageS Professor Alan Nelson of the English department will conduct a writing center next year to help students with writing problems. Students will be employed to work at the center to be advisors. During this past academic year, Nelson has been on sabbatical. This time has allowed him to visit various· colleges with working writing centers. He bas observed Skidmore College, Michigan Technological University, Carleton, St. Olaf, Lake Forest,. Franklin and Marshall and Bucknell, to name a few. Said Nelson, \Of all the places I visited, Bqcknell impressed me the most.\ However, each college runs its own center differently: \Some coordinate the writing in consensus across the curriculum; others are mainly adjunct to freshman English.\ Nelson would like to set up possibly four tutoring areas and a reception area for the facility by this fall, Money for this project may be obtained in the form of a .grant although a total cost has not yet been fixed .. He foresees a staff of eight tutors plus himself and possibly another non-student assistant with expertise in the writing center field. The students will workapproximately eight bours per week. These tutors will be on duty five days a week, four hours a day, but these hours may be changed depending on demand. Ideally, at any given time, a couple of tutors would be on duty with either Nelson or the other non-student assistant. Changes Will Disrupt· Although Nelson is still working on a budget for the center, he does have a few ideas as to what it should include. Stoller Hall's second floor is a finished area, but currently \I'd like it (the center) to be a pleasant space ... a well set up establishment,'' said Nelson. The atmosphere will .be relaxed and informal. \There will be lots of frustrations,'' said Nelson; no tutor can promise to solve every problem, but the Continued from page 1 campus closed to general vehicular traffic.\ The new plans will make this theme a reality. It will not be possible to drive between most parts of the campus after the construction is c()mpleted. Among the roads which will be removed or closed are the road between North and Carnegie, the road between Security and the Turf field, and from in front of Hale House to South 1 Fox, Film Co-Chairperson speaks at Forum ••• CoC Policy Criticized Continued from page 3 The Skeller Board held its first meeting on Wednesday, May 9. Presently, the board has for- med a committee to investigate the possible changes in health regulations. Further in- formation will be presented at its next meeting. , Discussion then turned to the area of \new business.\ Co- Chairperson of the Film Committee Andrew Rosen presented his argument against the current CoC process of selecting-interviewing com- mittee chairpersons. (See lead paragraph). As Rosen stated, ''The presence of the chair- person may help provide the CoC with explanations of in- .formation which ordinarily is not available. Also the CoC presently has no method of an applicant's actual contribution to that committee. Someone who may appear very qualified on paper and in the interview may not nave contribute.d the most time.\ Chairman of the CoC Jared Squires defended his organization's current policy stating that this process was developed in the attempt to be as objective as possible when reaching a decision. In addition, the CoC' s current bylaws do not dictate any specific type of policy on the issue. Next year's CoC can set its own policy. Further discussion ensued with no real resolution of the issue occurring. The possible illegality of the Pub's showing of movies for free in the Pub (on the new video system) was raised. This issue will be investigated when the Pub video system contract is discussed with Food Service. Freshman Representative Steven Moss brought up the issue · of absentee ballots. Chairman of the Elections Committee Doug Landon ex- pressed initial objections to the plan, although he and Moss will try to work on a proposal. Landon, in a related incident,. raised the issue of having the Student Forwn run the elections in lieu of the Elections Com- mittee. A tentative proposal is in the works. The last issue to be covered was the approval of the proposed Student Forum budget of the 1984-85 academic year. A motion was made by Brian Laux for approval of the budget. The motion was approved by the forum. The forwn then went into closed session to discuss an issue of special concern. Skeller Future Reviewed Continued from page 3 finaliy in the next two months\ about the existence of the Skeller with the new campus center. \The Pub is a very different facility than the Skeller,\ said Mammola, but the Skeller's relationship to the new center must be considered. The question of the New York State drinking age is also associated with this issue. If the legal age is raised to 21,. as Governor Mario Cuomo wotlld like, it would \change radically (the) nature of alcohol on campus. It doesn't make much sense to have two licensed liquor facilities when the majority of the students aren't able to drink,\ said Mammola, Although the College respects the importance of the Skellerto the students and alumni, it may not be financially possible to run two drinking facilities with so few patrons. Mammola's last point was associated with the Skeller's location. Stoller f.Iall's second floor will probably be used for a new writing center and its third floor will be used possibly as a casual lounge for studying. The hall's first floor would be used as a reception area for the building. If this plan comes into fruition, it may not be suitable to have a rather noisy Skeller directly below these facilities. The board then looked into some ways of renovating the Skeller so as to meet any new stringent building codes. \Historically said Schmidt, \Union College has provided the costly physical im- provements to the basic building (Skeller). Even though the Skeller does have some funds to use in this manner, it could not finance the entire project. The Skeller's new floor alone cost Food Service $10,000. Upon Senior Dan Savrin's motion, it was decided that he and Tom Humphrey would look into the matter by correlating the Skeller's needs with any new code requirements. The ineeeing was adjourned at 5:10 p.m. after another meeting of the Board was set for the following Wednesday (yesterday), May 16 at 3:30 p.m. r------Minority Affairs Dialogue Continues---- ..... Two visitors will conclude the 1983·84 Professors Daniels/Davis seminar series on minority affairs. On Monday, May 21, Alex Willingt'iam, polltlcal.ttleorlst and activist, will visit classes and In a public forum discuss \responsibility of the New Rising Black Public Official.\ The following week, Monday, May 28, the subject will be \The Jesse Jackson Cam· paign,\ to be addressed by Ronald Walters, .National Issues Coordinator for the Jesse Jackson tor President Campaign. . Willingham earned his Ph.D. from the University of North carolina and has taught at Southern Univer- sity, Atlanta University and Dillard University. He has written articles on the southern Black caucus, eldridge Cleaver, Thomas Sowell, political par· ticlpation and the challenge of the.t'lewconser.vatl$m, Willingham will meet with Professor Baker's social Philosophy Class and give h!s public lecture at 8:00 p.m. (May 21) intheOid Chapel Hall. Ronald Waters earned his Ph.D. from Atlanta University and has taught at Syracuse, Brandeis and Howard University where he also served as chair· man. He has authored more than 80 articles; Including so in professional academic journals. HE! is presently completing a book on the subject of Blac~s and Presidential Politics. Walters will address Professor Brown's class on the contemporary Presidential campaign and will deliver his publ'c address (May 28) at 8:00p.m. in Old Chapel Hall. · There will be several Informal sessions scheduled with each visitor. Please contact Professor Daniels for details. and Davidson. It is also possible that the road from the Field House to the gate by Alumni Gym will be closed to traffic, though it will remain as a service road. Most gates will have roads that end in a circle or similar tum.-around. Of the roads that are closed, some may remain open for service and emergency vehicles and-or footpaths. The area around the Physical Plant Building will be the site of the greatest change in parking and traffic, A new entry road to the campus will start at the comer of VanVranken and Nott Streets and lead to Carnegie Hall. Because there is already a traffic light at that corner, there will be no problem with the city of Schenectady. Though the exact path of the road has not yet been detennined, it will cut across some part of the field that lies below Garris Field and then join the river at a point probably just below the security building, taking with it a small piece of Jackson's Garden. Hauser sees both good and bad aspects to this, but defends the move saying that this \sets a very definite boundary for the Gardens. Right now there is not such a boundary.\ This new road will serve several functions. Initially, it will be an access road for the heavy machinery that will be used for the construction of Carnegie. Only the first two layers of the' road will be laid down until the construction is completed, whereupon the road will be surfaced for permanent use by regular traffic. The road will end by Carnegie, and will most likely end in a circle. There may be some parking near the Security building for Carnegie visitors and users. The lot presently behind Car- negie will not exist after con- struction. The entire parking area that exists by the Physical Plant Building is going to be moved across the brook. The parking lot wm extend from the brook to the new entry road. Although a few trees will be lost, Hauser stressed that \our architects will be working very hard to maintain as many of those trees as possible,\ evenif that means losing a .few parking spaces. The other major parking cl!ange will occur next to the Kappa Alpha fraternity. The grass area that now lies bet- ween the fraternity and Wells House will become a parking lot to accommodate the lost parking fr-om behind the gym. Eventually, the tennis courts may be moved to ·increase parking- None of the plans are detailed yet because architects have only recently been chosen. Hauser sets a rough estimate for the cost of the campll$-wide ·improvements at twelve to thirteen million dollars. The bulk of the money wi).l be borrowed at low interest rates from the New York State Dormitory Authority. Construction .for some of the projects will begin as soon as July 1. 'rhis summer, con- struction will begin t'n the North entry road, relocation of the Physical Plant-Butterfield parking, and relocation of the gym parking. In September, construction will begin on the new Central Services Building. Renovations of Carnegie and Alumni Gym will begin next spring, and all construction is scheduled to be completed by December of 1986. The construction is being coordinated to cause as little disrupti()n to the community as ' possible over the next few years. Nonetheless, there will be inconveniences. According to Hauser, \the major disruption will be in tile College Center . . . The kinds of activities that currently take place in Car- negie, to some degree, will bave to be rel()cated or perhaps even curtailed In some instances.\ He also mentioned that \somewhere along the way the Pub is going to be out of operation,\ though he does not know for bow long. StudemtloputSought Student input into the changes occurring around campus are being sought in a few ways. Both the College Center and Alumni Gym conunittees have student members and the Planning and Priorities Committee which has three student representatives and oversees overall campus proposals gave its usual \rubber stamp.\ There will be at least two open meetings at which architects will present plans for the various projects and be open to questions and comments. One of these meetings will take place before the end of this year. Class of '86 Run~off election Friday for 3rd Junior Repe Position Dave Marin EricUpman Vote at Carnegie Tomorrow, 9a.m.-4 p.m. .... 2 <II !D - 0.. E '- 0 z >- .0 ~ 0 ..c:: a.

Page6 CONCORDII!_'NSJ~: Ma.r 17, 1984 FEATU.RES Humor- . . . . T . d A·· M . p.. f . . u · .. · X.COuntry,Exchange owar s . ore .. er ect nton. .. . .. By STEVE GLAZER Every day I hear the same complaints, and I have just about had it. Everyone tells me that they hate things about this school; like the social life, but they never propose measures to change the way that things are. I have spent many long minutes this weekend exploring all that Union College of Schenectady, New York (NOT New Jersey) has to offer, and have come up with ten ideas to help us form a more perfect Union. 1. I propose that the campus forget all about student box numbers and distribute mail randomly. This action would induce several things. First of all, . the school would save rrioney because it would take less time to sort the mail. This process would also force 'ltudents to get to know the entire student body by name, unless they would rather not ever get that check from home again. This system would also, by its nature, promote in- teraction between the sexes. 2. The next action taken in this \ten-part-plan-for-happ- iness\ is to destroy the pub and replace it with a \Space Walk\ tramPQline, like they have at cheapo carnivals. This cQuld still be a campus meeting place, but would show the ad- ministration that students can have fun without ·alcohol. I'm sure this place would become very popular during midterms and final periods, as well as on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday nights. 3. Many peopl.e I know complain ·of tension due to lack df .promiscuity .. I believe the purchase of a dozen <!sensory deprivation tanks\ would serve thi~ school's student body very welL These tanks should be like the one that was used in the movie ''Altered States,\ 4. The Skeller should remain open at all times. I mean this! It should be kept open 24 hours a day., 7 days a week, 52 weeks a year. Perhaps the addition of both a Sushi bar and a raw bar will improve the atmosphere. 5. I think the new AstroTurf field should be painted a dif- ferent color. Bright orange or purple would be kind of nice. It seems pretty stupidto me that a \:fake\ field should be painted green so as to make it look real. 1 truly believe that if the turf was repainted, student apathy would decrease by 300 percent. 6. The school colors need to be changed. Everyone is sick and tired of hearing the same dumb story of how we beat Harvard for our colors. It seems they weathered the loss O.K. Our new· colors should be plaid. It seems plaid is the most popular material for on-campus clothing anyway. 7. The Nott Memorial needs to be restored. This fact seems to be obvious to all but the most moronic of people. This building is a symbol to many students, more important to them than Ralph's Polo or Izod's Alligator. 'Where is the money going to come from, you ask'? I propose tl1at next year for Greek Week all fraternity members get are. now being accepted for two positions on The 1984 Orientation Committee Forms may be picked up in the Dean of Students' Office. The deadline for ap· plication is Thursday., Af\ay 24. Don't Miss Out! It is sti II possible to get A Fitzhugh Ludlow T-Shirt Additional shirts are being ordered; anyone interested s.hould sign the list i~ Mrs. Marra's office and pay her $5.00 (please indicate size), Orders WHI be taken until 4:30 p.m. on Wednesday, May 23rd. people to pledge them one dollar per each beer they drink during a twenty-four hour period. With all the money that is raised we can rebuild the Nott and build a new student center. 8. Each student shall be issued a library punch card. Students .must punch in and out of the building, and a strict mf;lximum of five hours study a day wiU be enforced. Students caught exceeding the limit will be shot, and then forced to wear the scarlet letter \T\ on their clothing for their remaining years at Union College. 9. A psychology major's thesis has proven that if the science and engineering building were to accidently explode, student happiness would raise by a factor- of five. The appropriate measures should be taken. 10. On the first floor of the arts building a Graffiti room should. be constructed. Only one student shall be allowed in at a time. In exchange for their I.D. card students will receive one spray paint can. This will be one last safety· measure to insure that all of the students' frustration and anger has been vented. I propose that the ad- ministration of Union College seriously consider these ten proposals. This .school is not such a bad place, but with these unique additions, Union would be an incredible. place to spend four years. And plus, if you don't pay attention to . these proposals,. I'll get mad, and never talk to you again. Union trackster Chris O'Donnell, a sophomore elec- trical engineer is off to - in, ternational cross country races this June. Chris will join 60 other X Division III distance· runners from across the nation for the l~day race circuit in New Zealand. These athletes have been chosen for their performances in NCAA regional cross country championships this past November. Chris ran down from the hills of Vermont in· September of '82 to eventually become team captain in cross cotmtry and indoor-outdoor track. Over the past two years he has compiled personal bests of 26:02 fo~ five miles (X-C), 4:02 for 1500 meters and 2:00 for 800 meters. Possibly his most impressive performance carne this past weekend at the NYST&FA state meet where he _placed third in a school record time of 9:39.4 in the 3,000 meter steeplechase. With the outdoor collegiate track season finished, Chris is now concentrating on in- creasing his weekly training mileage in preparation for the competitions down under. He will compete in two 12 kilometer (7 .5 miles) cross country races during the 10 day visit. · New Zealand is widely known as a hotbed for elite distance runners. Among the most prominent to emerge from the small island country are world class marathoners Rod ·Dixon and Alison Roe, and fonner world record holder in the mile, John· Walker. · The Union track team members have offered varied opinions of the trip. Coach Russ Ebbets has been most sup- portive in organizing the logistics, noting \Chris will gain great experience from both international competition and exposure to a different culture.\ A freshman distance ace and teammate of Chris' had one strong interest; \Olivia Newton John, right?\ Chris will be traveling to Los Angeles to meet the team and coaches on June 4, before leaving for Auckland the following day. Best of luck and congratulations to Chris and the rest of the athletes. Come t.o the J SU B-B-Q in Jackson's Gardens on May 2lst at 4 p.m. ALL ARE WELCOME! FREE BEER Dinner is $1.00 for non-members and free for members Raindate is May 23rd, • •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • : Delta Gamma's : • • • • : '84 : • • : OLY PICS : • • • • : Sat-., May 19 • ll a.m. : : Fun & Games : : Raffle Prizes : • • • • : Come support your i : favorite team! : • • • • • • • Proceeds benefit • • • : Northeastern Assoc. : : · of the Blind : • • ·······························~ . . By~ s The fol14 to the lettE my own The letter (and only) as to the·< the· town. Nankin ( Federated Box 63 Nankin, 0 Dear Matt I receiv cerning tll town-Nanl resident moved her, my famil~ your searcJ will be mill to know, coming SUl worship I a letter and some of the congregatio help~ Our

CONCORDIENSIS, May 17, 1984 Page7 FEATURES On the Career Front: My Town·~n Ohio II By MATT NANKIN Senlor Writer teresting history in itself. As you know it is Federated. This word is literal in this case. Some ·52 years ago the local congregations of the Methodist and Presbyterian Churches decided to join ·congregations. That's not strange--but they also movetl their buildings together to form one church- Nankin Federated. I am a Methodist pastor, the last was Presbyterian. As you can see, we alternate back and forth. I love our little toWn and· I'm sure you would, too. I hope to get the information you want. I also send you an open invitation to come visit us. I would be glad to furnish you room and board at my house .. Please consider. I'll write again when I have the necessary info. Mastering The Job Market The following is the response to the letter that was sent out to my own town ..... Nankin, Ohio. The letter was sent to the main (andoniy) church and inquired as to the origin of the name of the' town. It read .as follows: Nankin Community Church Federated Box 63 Nankin, Ohio 44848 Dear Matt, I received your letter con· · cerning the name of our fair town-Nankin. I ain a new resident of. Nankin having moved here six months ago with my family in September. So your s~arch for tbe toWn's name will be mine also as I would like to know, too. Therefore this coming Sunday morning during worship I am going to read your letter and article in hopes that some of the old-timers out of our congregation will be able to help~ Our church has .an in- Blessings, Rev. Ed Tolley P.S. Any towns in N.Y. named Tolley? As is evident from the above letter, the people who live in Nankin, Ohio are friendly, down-home folk. First meeting of CUSS: - Campus United to Save the Skeller . in the Rathskeller at 4:00p.m. Today,. May 17 In the face of unprecedented cycles of change, the American. work force has its jobs on the line as never before. No longer is it sufficient to take the best job offer, .get to work on time, do what you are asked (or told), and energetically support · company goals. Mastering today's job market requires a whole new level of versatility and flexibility. This may in- volve anticipating changes of which the organization itself might not be aware. -· Job loss associated with organizational change or technical obsolescence is no longer a looming or distant threat. Even the high-tech crowd has. its problems: Atari, Mattel, and Texas Instruments have all had recent and unex- pected layoffs. Corporate survival today reqUires swift initiative, quick response, and innovation. Individual career planning takes the same fast· footwork. Managing your career calls for the same attention as personal financial planning: simply holding on to the tried~and-true methods isn't good enough. A fundamental principle of the new work ethic is that you are responsible for the quality of your work life, as well as its durability. The way your parents approached their car.eers is outdated. The old myths are crumbling, and fast: The myth of security. Simply .getting the job is not sufficient- versatility is the .key. You need to be constantly alert to emerging opportunities, to develop and refocus skills and abilities, and to acquire new U.S. NAVY.MEDICINE MEDICAL SCHOOL SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM Are you currently in medical school and seeking an avenue. to continue your education without financial burden, a Medical future that affords a practice with .. out administrative and financial_ worries? If so; the Navy has an outstanding opportunity for you in the Medical School Scholarship Program. BENEFITS • Full tuition and educational fees • $4 79.00 per month stipend e Commission as a United States Naval Officer • Internship and Residency training available upon graduation · OBLIGATION • Three years active duty service as a Navy Medical Officer after· graduation. • 45 days of required annual active duty that can be spent in Navy clerkships (required, elective, clinical or research) or at Officer Indoctrination School. BASIC QUALIFICATIONS • U.S. Citizen. • Excellent professional references • Enrolled in AMA approved medical school Fot further information, write or call: LT. John Romac Medical Officer Program Leo W. O'Brien Federal Bldg Albany, NY 12207 . (518) 472 .. 4424 personal and professional contacts in anticipation of changes in your company and industry. Blind passivity will surely get you in trouble when. your firm moves from physical to electronic transactions, from product to service, from local to global. Read at least three professional or trade jolll'nals regularly. Pay attention to your competitors. Watch. carefully what your company's customers are doing.· The myth c,f need. The typical job seeker has a tendency to operate from a position of ''I need a job ... do you know of anything~\ This doesn't work any more. Tbe neediest people have the poorest jobs. Comm panies have sharpened their requirements and are looking for graduates who know how to . create value, not expense. The myth of quiet compllance. Many old-line organizations have a culture which instructs its employees to wait to be asked for a job change: don't call us, we'll call you. Be discreet but assertive as you establish relationships in other departments or, for that matter, in other companies which demonstrate an active interaction with the future. The myth of scarcity. Despite every piece of propaganda, every .article, every caution and worry in the media, there is no inherent scarcity of job op- portunity. A job is an op- portunity to solve .a problem and, without question, there is an abundance of problems to be solved. If you get panicked by the fear of job scarcity, yo11 will tend to hold on tightly to what you've got, take few risks, and not fully explore your options. Develop a sense of career entrepreneurship, wtih you as the \produce.\ Invest in training, research, and per- sonal development. Most im- portantly, be willing to take chances. The myth of work as effort. You are living when you .are working. If you hold on to a job which has gone stale, and drag yourself through 40 hours per week of complaint and com- pliance, you greatly imperil the qilality of your life. Integrate your career development with personal development and look , for ever evolving work that feeds both . the paycheck and West Beach Party will take place on Friday, May 18 at 2:00p.m. Look forward to Miller Beer and Tapagel I D's Required! psyche. There are ten steps to managing your career tran- sition. They are summarized as follows: 1) Manage change. Know that change can be both threatening find exhilarating. Find three. or four people in your organization and meet regularly to discuss growth opportunities in your field. Attend professional association meetings. 2) Discover the building blocks. Investigate personal patterns of success and allow others to assist you in the expression of marketable skills. Use basic career development inventories, testing, and introspection to analyze your skills, abilities, interests, and the basic qualities you bring to work. 3) Create a vision. The road to the future does not appear on a blueprint or map. Exercise your imagination to create a picture of your company four or five years downstream. 4) Work the network.. Develop a list of contacts in other industries, or other companies within your industry. Use these networks to obtain information and make new contacts. 5) Overcome roadblocks. Steel yourself from potential rejection and from internal barri~rs of laziness, procrastination,.and fear. Know that the experience of these barriers is normal to any active engagement in personal and career growth. 6) Master communication. Sharpen what you have to offer and how you want to communicate this knowledge. 7) Update your resume. When striving to move ahead, stress your capabilities not just your accomplishments. 8) Practice interviews. Even though what you are looking for . might be internal to your organization, · consider every · meeting up the line in your company as a potential in- terview. 9) Plan your future. Operate with a written plan and rough timetable based on what you want to achieve, what you need to learn, who you need to nieet, and appropriate time frames. Don't be afraid , to change your plan at periodic intervals. 10) Hang tough. There is no question that the work place is engulfed in waves of change; that many' once ''protected'' institutions or companies will be dramatically reshaped or· eliminated by the power of new technology, social requirements, and new in- ternational constraints. As the waves pound more strongly on the shore, it is no longer suf- ficient to swim against the tide. What's needed is a surfer's mentality: use your in- telligence, coordination, and fast reflexes to ride the waves and. allow the energies of change to propel you in the directions of your choice. Information for this article was taken from \Bridging the Obsolescence Gap,\ by Tom Jack·son, Business Week's Guide to Careers, Summer 1984. . g.QitUJU6. ~.44 •• t·~~ ' Utttll ~ --~~ Pllll ... ~ ·, _, .. {~SPACIE111 PHONES: 372-7270 370-373'5 COR. UNION STREET Sr VAN ANTWERP RO. I PIZZERIA I SCHENECTADY, N. V. HOME STYLE PIZZA ' FEATURING ORDERS TO TAKE OUT

Page8 <!LnttnJrbirnsis FounJ,J at {/mon Co/Jeer )877 ------------ ----------- In Response To Criticism This editQrial is in response to some accusations made in a letter by Director of Food Services Janet Gray in this week's issue of the Concordiensis. Although we do not normally respond to letters to the editor in the same issue in which they appear, we believe that since next week's issue is the last of the trimester, it would be appropriate in this case. Gray, in her letter, att~sted that she was \misstated\ in an article entitled \Two Resigned\ which appeared in the May 10 issue· of the Con- cordiensis. It is our feeling that the editor who wrote this story had no intent to \misstate\ Gray or in any manner relay false information. We have confidence in our writers and do not believe that Gray was in fact ''misstated.'' Infonnation was acquired from various sources including Gray and Skeller student workers. It is our feeling that the article was well researched and that the sources were credible. We do concede that Jack Parisi's title may be Public Health Sanitarian for the City of Schenectady rather than Assistant Health Commissioner as Gray states. Unfortunately, one of our reporter's sources was misinformed. According· to Skeller employees interviewed, head students and student managers are no longer empowered to close the Skeller on Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday evenings, therefore, their duties have been diminished. During· Gray's interview, she stated that she was concerned about the problems that could ensue (when students serve alcohol) if an accident should occur, as unfortunately did winter term. This is an honest concern and we do not understand why Gray would be angered at having her thoughts conveyed. · Lastly, Gray did express concern in her interview that students were being served in the Skeller beyond the point of intoxication. She was quoted as saying that \We (the Food Service) are not to serve anyone who shows any real or apparent intoxication,\ but she did admit that this policy has not always been en- forced as stringently as it could be by Skeller em- ployees. Again, we have full confidence in our writers. We thank Gray for her compliments that we are \com- mitted to quality journalism\ and that we are a \staff of integrity.\ We believe that these corrilllents are not unfounded in any of our articles including the article h~ question. Elections for Editor-in-Chief of Concordie.nsis Tuesday, May 22 7:o·op.m. * All staff members are eligible to vote * All candidates must submit their name to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office by Monday, 4:30 p.m. If you would like to vote but cannot at- tend the meeting, please call Concordy on Tuesday, 3-7 p.m., ext. 6155. To The Campus Community: CON CORDI ENS IS arrives at Carnegie every Thursday 12-12:30 p.m. We greatly appreciate the help by anyone who is there to carry the stacks of papers into the building. CONCORDIENS/5~Ma_J'l7, /984 . ' LETTERS To the ~dttor: Th . 1· · · . · ·. k d M Re: Name Withheld &. Con- · ese sma I colleges room . ts pa~ e · . . . organ . . cerned Student · generally hav.e. bad well ~uarant~ had 85 .turn out fo_r an r can Wlderstand the eoncem developed. recrmtmg schedules mformahon. ~esston at Hanulton , y 011 expressed in your letters for. the. ltberal arts, whereas and were ~0. unpressed they~et about how you will fin<l a job Umo~ has not. W~ are .now u~arecrmtmg da~e. CQmpam~s without more recruiteFs on seekmg to expand. thts aspect of Will be more Jnterested m · · campus for the liberal arts. our program. A~ost on~third ~olleges which show an interest You have many varied career of _the C?mpames .com~g to m them. . . .· . options as liberal arls students. U.mon thts year mtervtewed Info~atlon sessxons can be Your career planning is liberal artsstudents. I have met prodnchve. At Wesleyan, · therefore, typically mor~ ~ith alumni-ae _and recruiters employershi;e as many from complex and time·consuming !0 NYC s~veraltunes ~s well as these .. sesstons .. as . from than that of a technical student. m Washington,. n~~. In ~he re~ruttmg. We . Will .contmue. to This is why we have many next few months I will be .gomg bu1l~the munber.of mformatlon programs to develop your toNYC.andBost~n. What Iha~e sess~O!~S ~nd will need your career thinking early incollege. found Is that, m. last . years parttctpatlon. . . we are teaching you abo lit self- economy, co!llpames were very Let us know-your mterest~ so directed job hunting in o:rder to c~st.-co~sctou.s, . a.ctuaUy we ca!l encourage ap~roprmte provide you with skills you can ehmmatmg ~chools wh1ch were alumnilae ~nd · recrmters to use now and in the future,.(The not pr?dpctrve. Emplo~ers do come to U~1~n. But rem~~ber most effective way t<> fin<l a job not easily add colleges WithDut a tha~ recrmtmg _offers limit~d has been shown to be tl!rough proven track. record. opti~n.s af!d . ts . useful m applying directly to employers , , It ca_n t,~ke several years. ~f acqulrll1g JObs for . only . 21 and-or iJsing contacts.) ~ourt~g a CO!Jlpany before 1t percent _of those w~o mterv1ew There is a growing tr-end i,n wdl .1!1vest m on-campus nationw~de (at Umon, 23 per- the career centers acmss the recrwtmg. I have, therefore~ cent this ··year). The Career colin try to become more ~ought <!lumnil~e . to provide Dev.el<>pment Center. is here to developmentally oriented. mformatlon seSSIOnS a~d tak~ aSSISt aU s.tudent~ deye~op Recruiting is only one aS]lect of back resumes to bmld our ca~eer plannmg and ]Ob hmtmg the total program we offer, just record. When the alwn from :kills.. . . . as it is at the small .cdleges Manufr;tcturer~ Hanover came to encotlfagerecrwting, (Wesleyan, Colgate, etc.} who to Umon, thtrteen students attended our Career Coun- turned out. He co~entedthat Sincerely, JoanneTobiessen selors? Conference \last week. when they go to Middlebury the Director . . - - .. -.. ·'· Skeller Issue Clarified To the Editor: On Thursday, May 10, 1984, a news article was publisl!ed in Coocordiensis under the headling, \Two Resigned.\ I am compelled to speak out in order to correct several misstatements that appeared in your article: 1. Mr. Parisi is a Ful:Jlic Health Sanitarian for the Cit.y of Schenectady (not the Assistant Health Commissioner). 2. Positions of student managers and head students in the Rathskeller have neither been cut nor their responsibilities diminished. 3. Support and reinforcement of existing laws and policies is the essence of our concern, not liability. 4. In compliance with the law, and contrary to any direct or indirect statement attributed to me in the article, our policy and practice have always been and will remain never to serve anyone displaying any real signs ·Of intoxication. I hold a firm belief that the editors and staff of Con* cordiensis are people of ·in- tegrity and commitment to qualify journalism and ask that this matter be clarified. · Janet R. Gray Show Some Respect For· Union To the Editor: A greater respect for Union College property is.definite}y in order. A frustrated student This letter is written to· make the Union community think. ---------'\\\\:\\\\-_.._.;;..--- ....... ~--_....-~- Tw<> weeks ago, there were flowers planted in the brick planters in Carnegie Hall's main lobby. There. were also eight hanging baskets with fuchsia in them hung in front of the windows along the back wall. The indoor landscaping was ordered by Mrs. Marra and was intended to enhan«!e the beauty of the lobby of Carnegie Hall, not only for Parent's Weekend but for the rest of the sch<>ol year and the Sll:ll1Iller. Somebody was .assigned to keep them watered and fed so that they could' successflllly grow. Some people actually e11joyed the new additions. On Monday, I found out that five ·Of the hanging baskets and one geranium were stolen· over the weekend, probably in the evening, WhY do people ilave to steal college property--like these plants? Who in the !tell do they think they are? Those plants were bought by Union . College not the students' tuition money and that makes them property of the college. If there were. any witnesses why hclven't they stepped forward? Mrs. Marra was quite upset because whenever she tries t() brighten that. C(mcrete lobby, some jerks steal the plants. I feel that stricter measures ought to be ·imposed on the operating hours of the main lobby. 'l'hose planters and plant hangers were p11t in for the purpc>se of being.used not abused. It -would be so appreciative if the V;andals reconsidered their shamful actions and returned the missing plants. The rest d the Union community ought to be pretty pissed that some of the beautiful aspects of their campus are being stolen,. probably by fellow stude11ts!! I To the Dave that ti defend Maksm allow tl Lectur conj.un Since l positiv made I Histor~ junctiol the be suiting whole, alone copcerr To the Anoper DearD I am original printed which phone~ rest rail: When Thursto name c year), mediatE Do.n's r not loa< directio have be' Sadatw The is towhon the poss and the the eye], and-Or I the first others 11 To the I The 1• April26 regardill by Dr. C a great c it was w thelectu The boil by this s1 from thE sensitivE good reB Butth test. Sad He wen1 avowedE He camE anything continuo1 country showed alternati caughtn alternati as now, l it could done. It To theE Do you responsi ~ducatin~ Job too recruiter: arts maj1 to the de majQrs ir Joanne attract 1 College l All p.rr be s

Paxe 8 <!Lllltfllrbirnsis Fotmtkcl at timon ('ollt:gt l877 ------------ ----------- In Response To Criticism This edit~rial is in response to some accusations made in a letter by Director of Food Services Janet Gray in this week's issue of the Concordiensis. Although we do not nonnally respond to letters to the editor in the same issue in which they appear, we believe that since next week's issue is the last of the trimester, it would be appropriate in this case. Gray, in her letter, attested that she was \misstaced\ in an article entitled \Two Resigned\ which appeared in the May 10 issue· of the Con- cordiensis. It is our feeTing that the editor who wrote this story had no intent to \misstate\ Gray or in any manner relay false information. We have confidence in our writers and do not believe that Gray was in fact ''misstated.'' Infonnatien was acquired from various sources including Gray and Skeller student workers. It is our feeling that the article was well researched and that the sources were credible. We do concede that Jack Parisi's title may be Public Health Sanitarian for the City of Schenectady rather than Assistant Health Commissioner as Gray .:;tates. Unfortunately, one of our reporter's sources was misinformed. According to Skeller employees interviewed, head students and student managers are no longer empowered to close the Skeller on Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday evenings, therefore, their duties have been diminished. During Gray's interview, she stated that she was concerned about the problems that could ensue (when students serve alcohol) if an accident should occur, as unfortunately did winter term. This is an honest concern and we do not understand why Gray would be angered at having her thaughts conveyed. Lastly, Gray did express concern in her interview that students were being served in the Skeller beyond the point of intoxication. She was quoted as saying that \We (the Food Service) are not to serve anyone who shows any real or apparent intoxication,'' but she did admit that this policy has not always been en- forced as stringently as it could be by Skeller em- ployees. Again, we have full confidence in our writers. We thank Gray for her compliments that we are \com- mitted to quality journalism\ and that we are a \staff of integrity.'' We believe that these comments are not unfounded in any of our articles including the article h~ question. Elections for Editor-in-Chief of Concordiensis Tuesday, May 22 7:00p.m. * All staff members are eligible to vote * All candidates must submit their name to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office by Monday, 4:30 p.m. If you would like to vote but cannot at- tend the meeting, please call Concordy on Tuesday, J-7 p.m., ext. 6155. To The Campus Community: CONCORD I ENS IS arrives at Carnegie every Thursday 12-12:30 p.m. We greatly appreciate the help by anyone who is there to carry the stacks of papers into the building. CONCORDIENSIS, Ma.1· 17. 1984 LETTERS To the Edltor: Th . . 11 1 ·1 . · k d M Re: Name Withheld & Con- ese sma co eges room IS pac e . organ cernedStudent g·enerally hav.e. had well. ~uarant~had85.turn out fo.r an I can understand the concern developed. recrmtmg schedules mformatron~ess1on at Hannlton you expressed in your letters for. the liberal arts, whereas and were ~~· Impressed they ~et about how you will find a job Umo!l has not. W~ are now UJ?arecrmtmgda!e.Compani~s without more recruiters en seektng to expand th1s aspect of wtll be more mterested m campus for the liberal arts. our program. A~ost one-third ~olleges which show an interest You have many varied career of . the c~rnpames . com~g to m them.. . . options as liberal arts students. l!n10n thrs year mterv1ewed Infor~atlon sesswns can be Your career planning is, h~ralarts ~tudents. I have.met productive .. At Wesleyan, therefore, typically more ~tth alwnm-ae .and recrwters employers lu~e as many from complex: and time-consuming ~n NYC s~veral times ~s well as these. . sessions.. as .. from than that of a technical student. m Washington, D.C. In the recrmtlng. We wtU contmue to This is why we have many next few m<Jnths I will be going buil~ the number.of information programs to develop your to NYC.and Bost~n. What I ha~e sess~o~s ~nd w~ll need your career thinking early in college. found 1s tbat, m. last years partiCtpatlOn. . We are teaching you about self- economy, co~pames were very Let us know·-your mterest~ so directed job hunting in order to c~st.-co~sctous, a.ctually we ca~ encourage ap~ropr1ate provide you with skills you can eluntnatmg ~chools whtch were alumm/ae ~nd recrmters to use now and in the future. (The not pr~ducbve. Employers do come to Umon. But remember most effective way to find a job not easily add colleges without a that recruiting offers limited has been shown to be through proven track record. opti~n~ a~d is useful in applying directly to employers \ It c~n t,~ke several years ~f acqmrmg JObs for . only . 21 and-or using contacts.) ~ourt~ng a co!'llpany before It per~ent .of those w~e mterv1ew There is a growing trend in Will mvest m on-campus nationwide (at Umon, 23 per- the career centers across the recruiting. I have, therefore, cent this year). The Career country to become more ~ought ~lunmi/~e to provide De~elopment Center is here to developmentally oriented. mforrnatron sessions a~d take asstst all ~tudent~ deye~op Recruiting is only one aspect of back resumes to bwld our ca~eer plannmg and ]ob hmtmg the total program we offer, just record. When the alum from ~kills. . . as it is at the small colleges Manuf~cturer~ Hanover came to encourage recrwtmg. (Wesleyan, Colgate, etc.) who to Un1on, thirteen students attended our career Coun- turned aut. Ee commented that Sincerely, Joanne Tobiessen selors' Conference last week. when they go to Middlebury the Director Skeller Issue Clarified To the Editor: On Thursday, May 10, 1984, a news article was published in Concordiensis under the headling, \Two Resigned.\ I am compelled to speak out in order to correct several misstatements that appeared in your article: 1. Mr. Parisi is a Public Health Sanitarian for the City of Schenectady (not the Assistant Health Commissioner). 2. Positions of student managers and head students in the Rathskeller have neither been cut nor their responsibilities diminished. 3. Sllpport and reinforcement of existing laws and policies is the essence of our concern, not liability. 4. In compliance with the law, and contrary to any direct or indirect statement attributed to me in the article, our policy and practice have always been and will remain never to serve anyone displaying any real signs of intoxication. I hold .a firm belief that the editors and staff of Con- cordiensis are people of in- tegrity and commitment to qualify journalism and ask that this matter be clarified. Janet R. Gray Show Some Respect For Union To the Editor: A greater respect for Union order. This letter is written to make College property is definitely in A frustrated student the Union community think. --;::==:::::;::::;::::;:;:::::::;::::;::::;::::;::::;::::;::==::======::=::::: Two weeks ago, there were flowers planted in the brick planters in Carnegie Hall's main lobby. There were also eight hanging baskets with fuchsia in them hung in front of the windows along the back wall. The indoor landscaping was ordered by Mrs. Marra and was intended to enhance the beauty of the lobby of Carnegie Hall, not only for Parent's Weekend but for the rest of the school year and the summer. Somebody was assigned to keep them watered and fed so that they could. successfully grow. Some people actually enjoyed the new additions. On Monday, I found out that five of the hanging baskets and one geranium were stolen over the weekend, probably in the evening. Why do people have to steal college property-like these plants? Who in the hell do they think they are? Those plants were bought by Union College not the students' tuition money and that makes then1 property of the college. If there were any witnesses why haven't they stepped forward? Mrs. Marra was quite upset because whenever she tries to brighten that concrete lobby, some jerks steal the plants. I feel that stricter measures ought to be imposed on the operating hours of the main lobby. Those planters and plant hangers were put in for the purpose of being used not abused. It would be so appreciative if the vandals reconsidered their shamful actions and returned the missing plants. The rest of the Union community ought to be pretty pissed that some of the beautiful aspects of their campus are being stolen, probably by fellow students! ! I Editors .. in...cbfef News Editor -ociateNews Editor F~tures !Editor . Associate Features Editor Commentruy Page Editor Arts Editors__ Camp··.J us.,Page .. Editors Sports Editors AssQeiateSports Editor Advertising Ediwr As$ociateAdv:erti&ing Editor& Photo Staff ' ~ l I '' I ~ ... I ! ' 'i To the Dave that tl defend Maks01 allowtl Lectur conjun Since 1 positiv made I History junctiot the be suiting whole, alone cone err To the An ope11 Dear D I am original printed which phone a restrail1 When Thursto name c1 year), mediate Don's 11 not loac directio1 have be1 Sadat w The is to whorr the poss and the thecyd and·or 4 the first others n To theE The IE April 26 regardin by Dr. C a great ( it was w: the lectu The boil bythisst from thE sensitive good rea But th1 test. Sad He went avowedE He came anything continuo! country showed alternati caughtrr alternati as now, v it could done. It To theE Do you responsi educatin~ job too· recruiter: arts maj1 to the de majors ir Joanne attract 1 College ~ All p.rr bes

CONCORDIENSIS; MaJ' I 7, 1984 Poge9 . . Lecture· Choice Defended To the Editor: Davli! Marin has ·requested that the History Department defend ''its invitation to Maksoud after he refused to . . allow the name of Sadat Peace Lectureship to be used in conjunction with his talk.\ Since the decision to respond positively to Ma~soud was made by me, as Chair of the History Department, in con• junction with Fredric Miller, th~ benefactor, without con~ suiting the department as a whole, it is appropriate that I alone respond. Maksoud's concern was, that it wQuld be inappropriate, m;politic, and .false for him, as the Ambassador of the Arab League,. t() give a lecture in a series that implied. the approval of Sadat's policies. I agre~d tQ. drop Sadat's name becau~e I felt it was more important to hear the views of the . Arab League from its leading spokesperson than not to hear them at all. I · still believe this to be true. Most people who listened to Maksoud, whether tlley agreed with bim or not, ()f whether they thought he was a highly effective spoltesperson or not, have a better 1UiderStanding of the views of the Arab League than they did ~efore and, con- sequently, a better un- derstanding of the Middle East's int:tactable problems. I did not consult with the Department as a whole, because, frankly, at the moment the decision was made, I did not think I needed to. Obviously, thiswas an error. Whatever the outcome of the Maksoud affair, I fervently h()pe that we will be able in the future to hear the views of aD sides of the extraordinarily diUicl!l.t search for peace in the Middle East. D~R. Thurston Sponsor Explains Position· To the Editor: An open letter to Dave Marin'86 Dear Dave, · I am enclosing a copy of my original letter to the editor, printed below, of ConcorcUensis, which was dictated over the phone and edited due to space restraints. · When approached by Don Thurston about the lectureship name change (deletion for this year), my response was im_. mediate and positive. As is Don's normal manner, he did not load the question· in either direction. It was I who could not have been more positive; it was Sadat who caused me to do this. The issue is not who did what to whom and when. The issue is the possible saving of lives now, and the possible interruption of ~e cycle of death. The religious and-or cultural background of the first life saved is irrelevant; others may be saved fl·om the other side as a ·result. Dr. Maksould came to tell us how the Arab League looks at things. He was quite specific; his positioiL is not popular in many areas of this country. Those who walked out, like those professors who signed the . original c~neordiensis letter, and did not attend, have closed their . miBds to reality. Evidently their ground is so uncertain that they felt threatened by another point of view. They could only absorb one position in one lifetime. In fact, I d()ubt anyone converted from one side to the other as a result of 1he lecture. True? Of course tr11e. There are about 150 million Arabs. This is a sizeable group of people. While U.S. Marines were still in Beirut during the heat of tile fighting. I was in Haifa on l>usiness, about 50 miles away. Fifty miles is a few stQps on the Thruway. As the missles fly, it is a matter of seconds. · The Mid East is too confined for the type of posturing, by both sides, which has been going on for years. Nuclear weapons are unnecessary; vast nwnbers of people can be killed with WW II weapons. While I read and love history, history is a great roadblock in the Mid East. It is used by both sides to excuse present and future killing. This is not good enough. I urge you to open your eyes, ears, and mind. Go about the business of attempting to make contact, . rather than shooting across the barricade. The nonnal methods of attempting to make peace have failed miserably. What have you to offer that is new? We need your input. What would Sadat have done? Fredric Miller '60 A Lecture For Peace To the Editor: The . letter published in the April 26 issue of Concordiensis regarding the upcomiQg lecture by Dr. Clovis Maksoud contains a .great deal of truth. However, it was written in anticipation of the lecture, as yet not delivered. The boiling emotion generated by this subject, some6,000 miles from the Mid East shows how sensitive the issue is. And for good reason. But the letter fails the Sadat test. Sadat did the unthinkable. He went to the home · of his avowed enemy to discuss peace. He came to the conclusion that anything was better · than a continuous war between his country and any other. That showed . sanity; the · other alternative did not. And he caught moSt of us off-guard. His alternative at that time, as well as now, was a non ..alternative- it could not and would not be done. It was not on the list of probable alternatives. But it was done. If Dr. Maksoud's views, as of j.he night of the lecture, are completely known, jt would be a great waste of time to· attend. Just perhaps lle will offer some unexplored area where ac- commodatioll is possible, but has not been tried.Even he might be aware of it. Perhaps one teacher ()r one student may find an area where a new logic might fl()urish and grow. Perhaps a questicn might evoke a response not anticipated. We are looking toward the listener, not necessarily the speaker: The real question is: Why is he allowed to speak when I disagree with is views so vehemently-in advance? The answer: It is po~sible he may yield the raw stock to save a life or stop a war? I strongly recommead those of you who consider this, issue important to the securi1y of the world to att~nd. Something may evolve. Nothing is to be left untired, including a reevaluation of existing feelings and in- formation. Nothing can gloss over many of the events which have transpired between Mid East countries and peoples. But by continually reciting the litany of past actions, we block out future possibilities. We have to look forward as well as backward. The letter-in-advance was dated literally when published. What path toward peace does it offer? In the Mid East and elsewhere, war appears to be the normal state. Peace, when and if it comes, is a temporary aberration. It will not break out spontaneously. We must aggressively wage the peace, now, and with the tools available. Fredric S. Miller '60 Anwar Sadat Memorial Peace Lecture, Sponsor ·student Defends CDC To the Editor: Do you really think Union is · responsible for not only ~ducating you but getting you a Job too? The number of recruiters looking for liberal arts majors is directly related to the demand for liberal arts maj~rs in the' real world. · Joanne Tobiessen's efforts to · attract recruiters to Union College and have been sub- .stantial and she has suceeeded in bringing more recruiters interested in employing Liberal Arts majors. On campus interviews should be seen as b()nus opportWlities for students looking for jobs. · The job market is and will remain a buyer's.·rnarket. As a member of the class of 1985 you will be lueky. Because of the strength of the economy, fin- din~ a job will be much easier for you than it has been for many Union graduates in the past. Yes, finding a job a:s a senior is a task, but one to be accepted as a part of your life experience and not to be pushed off on the CDC. Do yourself a favor and take an economics course before you leave· this great institution for the real world. Good luck. Heidi Horak Class of '84 All letters to the editor must.be typed and submitted by 5 p.m. each ·Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed but na.mes will be.withheld upon request. COMMENTARIES Telling It Likeltls ByPAUI.R.EDWARDS This editorial is written in response to the pro-Zionist demonstrators who have recently been active on campus. Their ethnocentricity should not cloud the fact that both Arabs and Israelis have used Violence regularly. The Israeli govermnent has ~en guilty of human rights VIolations equal t(), if not sur- passing, . those of the PLO. Former Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin was once a terrorist himself, ~ing many of the same violent tactics now used by the PLO. In the late 1930's and early 1940's, Begin was head of the underground Irgun, a group dedicated to supporting illegal immigration of Jews into Palestine. The terrorization of innocent Arab villagers by the Irgun was strikingly similar to modern PLO atrocities. Supporters of Zionism speak best for themselves. J. Weitz, head .of .the Jewish Agency's Colomzat10n department, wrote in 1940 that, \There is no room for both peoples in this country . . . There is no way but to transfer the .Arabs from here into the neighboring countries .. . not one village, not one tribe should be left.\ The Zionist Hagnah and Irgun later con- ducted terrorist raids against Arab villages-one massacre alone took the lives of 254 in- nocent Arab men, women and children. Although the Jewish Agency condennned the massacre, the Irgun was ab- sorbed into the Israeli joint military command on the same day. These are just a few examples of Israeli terrorism which has been conducted for over forty years. The demonstrators on this campus proudly co- memmorate the Israeli War of \Independence\: a war fought, not on existing Israeli territory, but fought to conquer even more land from the Arabs. Both government~backed and in- dependent Israeli groups continue this terror today exemplified by the placing of bombs on buses carrying in- nocent Palestinians by Israeli strong-arm gr()ups last month. Naturally, violent crimes committed by various PLO factions must alro be brought to light. The strikes against Israeli Olympic athletes by PLO members seemed to be acts of sheer hatred, totally devoid of any rational political goal, and were reflective of many other senseless acts committed by the leading radical PLO factions. These PLO crimes are equally as atrocious as those of the PLO's self-proclaimed op- ponents. But the key word here is 'equally.' If weare to criticize PLO violence, we must also consider the crimes committed against the Palestinian people as wen. The fact that one group is Moslem and the other Jewish should not prejudice our judgement of terrorism. Let's be realistic. Israel was in the same plight 50 years ago that the Palestinians are in now. And not all Jews support Zlonist aggression, just as not all Palestinians support the PLO. When either Israel or the Arabs walk out of UN peace talks-or when students on this campus walked out on Dr. Maksoud's lecture:-they are acting in a bigoted and closed-minded fashion which is detrimental to the cause of peace and un- becoming to any civilized human being. Peace will never be achieved when any group refuses to listen to the per- spectives of others. Both the PLO and the Zionists have been guilty of racist violence, and this bigotry has unfortunately stained our own campus. Neither group merits our support. Can we, as a free society, condone any group . which advocates violence, be it Arab or Israeli? Vliolent attack is inherently · malevolent, no matter what cause it purports to serve. If violence is to be condemned, the condemnation must apply to both parties involved in the conflict-otherwide we become identical to our opponents. Student Workers Needed for ReUnion Weekend June8&9 Students who would like to work during ~eUnion Weekend (June 8 and 9). please stop by the Alumni OHice or call Mary at 6168 by Friday, May 18. ReUnion workers will be needed at the following events: Regist-ration at Lamont House, Minerva's Footrace, Junior ReUnion •. Alumni Parade, Picnic, Gala-Fest and more. A man.datory meeting of aU student workers will be held on ruesday, Ma.y 29at 4:30p.m. in the Banquet Room.

I 1 ' I I ' r l • J I I I . CONCORDIENSIS, May 17, 1984 Page9 Lecture Choice Defended To the Editor: Dave Marin has requested that the History Department defend ''its invitation to Maksoud after he refused to allow the name of Sadat Peace Lectureship to be used in conjunction with his talk.'' Since the decision to respond positively to Maksoud was made by me, as Chair of the History Department, in con- junction with Fredric Miller, the benefactor, without con- sulting the department as a whole, it is appropriate that I alone respond. Maksoud's concern was. that it would be inappropriate, imPolitic, and false for him, as the Ambassador of the Arab League, to give a lecture in a series that implied the approval of Sadat's policies. I agreed to drop Sadat's name because I felt it was more important t@ hear the views of the Arab League from its leacling spokesperson than not to hear them at alt I still believe this to be true. Most people who listened to Maksoud, whether they agreed with him or not, or whether they thought J:te was a highly effective spokesperson or not, have a better underStanding of the views of the Arab League than they d'id before and, con- sequently, a better un- derstanding of the Middle East's intractable preblems. I did not consult with the Department as a whole, because, frankly, at the moment the decision was rna de, I did not think I needed to. Obviously, this was an error. Whatever the outcome of the Maksoud affair, I fervently hope that we will be able in the future to hear the views of all sides of the extraordinarily difficqlt search for peace in the Middle East. D.R. Thurston Sponsor Explains Position To the Editor: An open letter to Dave Marin'86 Dear Dave, I am enclosing a copy of my original letter to the editor, printed below, of Concordiensis, which was dictated over the phone and edited due to space restraints. When approached by Don Thurston about the lectureship name change (deletion for this year), my response was im- mediate and positive. As is Don's normal manner, he did not load the question in either direction. It was I who could not have been more positive; it was Sadat who caused me to do this. The issue is not who did what to whom and when. The issue is the possible saving of lives now, and the possible interruption of the cycle of death. The religious and-or cultural backgroWld of the first life saved is irrelevant; others may be saved from the other side as a result. Dr. Maksould came to tell us how the Arab League looks at things. He was quite specific; his position is not popular in many areas of this country. Those who walked out, like those professors who signed the original Concordiensis letter, and did not attend, have closed their minds to reality. Evidently their ground is so uncertain that they felt threatened by another point of view. They could only absorb one position in one lifetime. In fact, I doubt anyone converted from one side to the other as a result of the lecture. True? Of course true. There are about 150 million Arabs. This is a sizeable group of people. While U.S. Marines were still in Beirut during the heat of the fighting. I was in Haifa on business, about 50 miles away. Fifty miles is a few stops on the Thruway. As the mtssles fly, it is a matter of seconds. The Mid East is too confined for the type of posturing, by both sides, which has been going on for years. Nuclear weapons are unnecessary; vast numbers of people can be killed with WW II weapons. While I read and love history, history is a great roadblock in the Mid East. It is used by both sides to excuse present and future killing. This is not good enough. I urge you to open your eyes, ears, and mind. Go about the business of attempting to make contact, rather than shooting across the barricade. The normal methods of-attempting to make peace have failed miserably. What have you to offer that is new? We need your input. What would Sadat have done? Fredric Miller '60 A Lecture For Peace To the Editor: The letter published in the April 26 issue of Concordiensis regarding the upcoming lecture by Dr. Clovis Maksoud contains a great deal of truth. However, it was written in anticipation of the lecture, as yet not delivered. The boiling emotion generated by this subject, some 6,000 miles from the Mid East shows how sensitive the issue is. And for good reason. But the letter fails the Sadat test. Sadat did the unthinkable. He went to the home of his avowed enemy to discuss peace. He came to the conclusion that anything was better than a continuous war between his country and any other. That showed sanity; the other alternative did not. And he caught most of us off-guard. His alternative at that time, as well as now, was a non-alternative- it could not and would not be done. It was not on the list of probable alternatives. But it was done. If Dr. Maksoud's views, as of the night of the lecture, are completely known, it would be a great waste of time to attend. Just perhaps he will offer some unexplored area where ac- commodation is possible, but has not been tried.Even he might be aware of it. Perhaps one teacher or one student may find an area where a new logic might flourish and grow. Perhaps a question might evoke a response not anticipated. We are looking toward the listener, not necessarily the speaker. The real question is: Why is he allowed to speak when I disagree with is views so vehemently-in advance? The answer: It is possible he may yield the raw stock to save a life or stop a war? I strongly recommend those of you who consider this issue important to the security of the world to att.end. Something may evolve. Nothing is to be left untired, including a reevaluation of existing feelings and in- formation. Nothing can gloss over many of the events which have transpired between Mid East countries and peoples. But by continually reciting the litany of past actions, we block out future possibilities. We have to look forward as well as backward. The letter-in-advance was dated literally when published. What path toward peace does it offer? In the Mid East and elsewhere, war appears to be the normal state. Peace, when and if it comes, is a temporary aberration. It will not break out spontaneously. We must aggressively wage the peace, now, and with the tools available. Fredric S. Miller '60 Anwar Sadat Memorial Peace Lecture, Sponsor Student Defends CDC To the Editor: Do you really think Union is respo~sible for not only ~ducatmg you but getting you a Job too? The number of recruiters looking for liberal arts majors is directly related to the demand for liberal arts majors in the real world. Joanne Tobiessen's efforts to attract recruite1·s to Union College and have been suJJ.. stantial and she has succeeded in bringing more recruiters interested in employing Liberal Arts majors. On campus interviews should be seen as bonus opportunities for students looking for jobs. The job market is and will remain a buyer's market. As a member of the class of 1985 you will be lucky. Because of the strength of the economy, fin- ding a job will be much easier for you than it has been for many Union graduates in the past. Yes, finding a job as a senior is a task, but one to be accepted as a part of your life experience and not to be pushed off on the CDC. Do yourself a favor and take an economics course before you leave this great institution for the real world. Good luck. Heidi Horak Classof'84 All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 5 p.m. each ·Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed but names will be.withheld upon request. COMMENTARIES Telling It Likeltls ByPAULR. EDWARDS This editorial is written in response to the pro-Zionist demonstrators who have recently been active on campus. Their ethnocentricity should not cloud the fact that both Arabs and Israelis have used violence regularly. The Israeli government has been guilty of human rights violations equal to, if not sur- passing, those of the PLO. Former Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin was once a terrorist himself, using many of the same violent tactics now used by the PLO. In the late 1930's and early 1940's, Begin was head of the underground Irgun, a group dedicated to supporting illegal immigration of Jews into Palestine. The terrorization of innocent Arab villagers by the Irgun was strikingly similar to modern PLO atrocities. Supporters of Zionism speak best for themselves. J. Weitz, head of the Jewish Agency's Colonization department, wrote in 1940 that, \There is no room for both peoples in this country . . . There is no way but to transfer the Arabs from here into the neighboring countries .. . not one village, not one tribe should be left.\ The Zionist Hagnah and Irgun later con- ducted terrorist raids against Arab villages-one massacre alone took the lives of 254 in- nocent Arab men, women and children. Although the Jewish Agency condemned the massacre, the lrgun was ab- sorbed into the Israeli joint military command on the same day. These are just a few examples of Israeli terrorism which has been conducted for over forty years. The demonstrators on this campus proudly co- memrnorate the Israeli War of \Independence\: a war fought, not on existing Israeli territory, but fought to conquer even more land from the Arabs. Both government-backed and ill- dependent Israeli groups continue this terror today exemplified by the placing of bombs on buses carrying in- nocent Palestinians by Israeli strong-arm groups last month. Naturally, violent crimes committed by various PLO factions must also be brought to light. The strikes against Israeli Olympic athletes by PLO members seemed to be acts of slleer hatred, totally devoid of any rational political goal, and were reflective of many other senseless acts committed by the leading radical PLO factions. These PLO crimes are equally as atrocious as those of the PLO's self··proclaimed op- ponents. But the key word here is 'equally.' If we ate to criticize PLO violence, we must also consider the crimes committed against the Palestinian people as well. The fact that one group is Moslem and the other Jewish should not prejudice our judgement of terrorism. Let's be realistic. Israel was in the same plight 50 years ago that the Palestinians are in now. And not all Jews support Zionist aggression, just as not all Palestinians support the PLO. When either Israel or the Arabs walk out of UN peace talks-or when students on this campus walked out on Dr. Maksoud's lecture-they are acting in a bigoted and closed-minded fashion which is detrimental to the cause of peace and un- becoming to any civilized human being. Peace will never be achieved when any group refuses to listen to the per- spectives of others. Both the PLO and the Zionists have been guilty of racist violence, and this bigotry has unfortWlately stained our own campus. Neither group merits our support. Can we, as a free society, condone any group . which advocates violence, be it Arab or Israeli? Vliolent attack is inherently malevolent, no matter what cause it purports to serve. If violence is to be condemned, the condemnation must apply to both parties involved in the conflict-otherwide we become identical to our opponents. Student Workers Needed for ReUnion Weekend June 8 & 9 Students who would like to work during ReUnion Weekend (June 8 and 9), please stop by the Alumni Office· or call Mary at 6168 by Friday, May 18. ReUnion workers will be needed at • the following events: Reg•stration at lamont Housew M• r •nerva s Footrace, Junior ReUnion, Alumni Parade, Picnic, Gala-Fest and more. A mandatory meeting of all student workers wiU be held on Tuesday, May 29 at 4:30p.m. in the Banquet Room.

Ul m 01 .r::. v Q) c ..c:: c. m 0 >- .0 0 +- 0 ..c:: c. >. u c Q) 01 <( m .0 c c m v Q) ..c:: 1- >. .0 E 0 ..c:: a. Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, MuJ' 17, JWJ.I THEA.RTS Eddie Money cit Proctor's \ . • • • A Ni>ght On The Town l Eddie Money performing to a great crowd at Proctor's. Pianist To Perforlll Pianist Pola Baytelman will offer a piano recital Tuesday, May 22, at Union College, beginning at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The program will in- clude a work by . composer Hilary Tann Presslaff, assi~ant professor of music at Union. The concert also will feature works by Beethoven, Albeniz and Schumann. Admission is $5 for the general public ($3 for students) and tickets are available at the door. The concert is free for Union College students. Baytelman, who teaches piano at Union, is a native of Chile and made her debut with the Chile~n Symphony Orchestra at age 17. She is a summ.a cum laude graduate of the University of Chile's National Conservatory, where she received the Orrego- Carvallo Prize fo·r highest student accomplishment. The recipient of a Fulbright grant to . study in the United States, she received her Master's degree and artist diploma from the New England Conse1vatory in Boston. She has been a soloist with numerous orchestras, including the Boston Pops, and has performed recitals and chamber music locally. This is her last area concert before she leaves to attend the University of Texas in pursuit of a doctor of music degree. Baytelman has been ac- claimed for her versatility and personality in a wide repertoire, and has been described by Gunther Schuller as \an out- standingly sensitive and talented musician whose per- formances are always a joy to hear.\ Area reviews of called her \brilliant and truthful,\ ''a musician of international stature.\ By TOD DIMMICK Staff \First of all;\ Eddie Money said with a grin,\ I wanna set the record straight. r was a fireman, not a policeman .. My father was a fireman. My grandfather was a fireman.'' Eddie Money, with a Buffalo style chicken wing in one hand and a beer in the other, was describing how his career got started.· Apparently advertisers use Money's image of an ex-cop because of tlie greater contrast with his present career of ·rock singer. Relaxed, joking and at ease backstage, He was equally at ease on stage for this concert Sunday oigbt. Eddie Money didn't seem too unhappy with the small crowd. As he put it, it was a rainy Sunday night, not to mention that it was Mother's Day. Those who did come, however, were certainly enthusiastic fans. The more energy Money put into his . music, the more enthusiastic was the reception from the crowd. The audience was varied, with people from all age groups. Particularly vocal was a group of high school-aged girls who seemed to be dying to get up on stage with Eddie Money. In fact, they constantly threatened to do just that. As might have peen expected, the hits for the night included past favorites such as \Baby Hold On,\ \Two Tickets to Paradise,;' \Think I'm in Love,\ and \Shakin.\ From his newest album the song \Where's The Party?\ was effective as an opening. i'The Big Crash\ was his other newer song he played. For the most part, Money's music is rocking, energetic and compelling. A brief excursion into slower music was the song \Friends sung to a solo by keyboard.ist Randy Nichols. New Riders of the Purple Sage will be performing at Union this Saturday, May 19th for free. The concert wi 11 be in the afternoon outside of West College. It is being sponsored by the I FC and Concert Committee. Tapage, the Union College group, Qpened for :Eddie Money at P·roctm;'s. The five member group, made up of lead singer Bill Unterborn, guitarist Steve Kling,, Drummer Larry graduating and: taking their · m~ic to New York City as professionals. Considering the small tur- nout, the concert . was still a success. Money rocked the Bill Unterborn of Tap.age is part of the first Union band to perform at Proctor's. Kanusher, Keyboardist Dan Lindy, and Peter DelRosario on Bass, played an inspirational and novel concert. The group, that you might recognize as the one that is always practicing next to WRUC in Carnegie, was well received by an audience that did nor have many Union students. Thus for a \real world\ performance ·by Tapage, they have done well. All of the songs they played were written by the group. Two of the songs, \Fantasy\ and \Tyger-Tyger '' seemed to make the most impression. Of the group, . Unterborn, Kanusher, and Lindy are stage; and the audience responded with enthusiastic approval. Tapage came across as a smooth, confident group with a definite future. Money said about Proctor's \I like it, it's more fun. There's no pressure.\ Money, used to playing before audiences of over 10,000 with .38 Special, certainly had a point about less pressure! As for the audience, one would have to say that people who saw Eddie Money must agree with what he said afterwards; \I just like it good. .. basic (music) that makes you move.\ - - Senior Cabaret ~ Is Coming! Attention all seniors: Anyone interested in doing something/anything for Senior Cabaret (musical acts; co.medy, skits, zany animal acts, or whatever it is 11 you've always dreamed of doing on • stage, within reason ... ) please contact Renee Haber, 377-5543, or Box 1098. ~ .~ Everyone is welcome, talented or otherwise. We look forward to hearing ~ from you. L - - - * * CABARET * * PRESENTS The amazing and talented ACT 1: Jodi Cohen and Friends ac- companied by P.hil Spoor and ACT II: Pravda, an incredible band. MC. will be Ken Budka Tickets on sale at Student Activities Desk Shows at 8:45 & 10:45 · B~ft, WINE, PUNCH CHEESE & CRACkERS IMP(] coursi COUfSI alert I three Room howe\ Confli Regis I Ex a Ill buildi AB~ B!I- BU- MONI Classi1 Econo Econo: Englis Englis Englis Histot: Civiiiz, Histor: Histor: Frencl Italian Genm Russia Spanis PhilOS( Politic, Politic, Sociol() 1/) BiologJ llJ BiologJ C1 :c BiologJ u Chemi1 Q) c: Sec.: .r::. c. Sec.: llJ 0 Sec.; >- Chemi! .0 0 Mather +- 0 Mather .r::. c. 2-Nief Mather Mather Mather Physic! Physic! Physic1 Psycho Psycho E.L.L.: E.S.to- MONDJ E.S.lo- E.S.33- E.S.42- C.S.40- C.S.42- MONDJ Econon Sec.l Sec. 2· PhilOSOJ PhilOSOJ Politic a Sociolo~ Statisti< Account Psychol E.E. 15: andApp MONDA Econom Hebrew Philosot Political Sociolog Sociolog Account. Biology: Math18( Psychol( ton'-PY E.X.ll- C.E.l70. C.S.lo-- C.S.ll- c.s. 260- TUESD1 Fresmm 106 Greek 12 Economl Economi English~ History turies-l History? Frenchl French 1 Spanishl Philosopl Political Political Socilogy Sociolog3

CONCORDIENSIS, May 17, 1984 Page 11 . . . Final Examination Schedule Spring Term 1984 IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarilyfor,regular, ''day'' uridergrc,lduate ' courses. ~ separate schedule for Graduate Studies and Continuing Education courses wtll be announced, and students in ''Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam ,time for those courses. Those who have three. (3.) ex~nations in. on~ day and wish to seek relief may see Dean Daniels, RoomS-100, Science andEngmeeringBldg. before May 28, 1984.lt should be noted, howeyer, .that stu~en~s are regularly expected to take two ex;ams in a single day. Con~cts lll exammat10ns ~hol,lld be reported to Mrs. D' Amato in the Office of the Registrar not latertban Frtday, May 2S, 1984. E~a~nations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the bwldings to be used. · · · Bilogy 24-Genetics and Evolution-J. Boyer, Butzel'-BH 207 Biology 66-Sex.andSexuality, Sec. 2~Butterstein, Lambert-BU 204 Biology 68-Genetics and the Law-Butzel-BH 108 · Biology 147:....Immunology-Styles-N 016 Chemistry 40--Quantitative Chemistry--Schaefer-BH205 Math 21-Mathematical Methods for the Social Sciences, Sec. 1-Zwicker-BH 203 Math 41-Linear Algebra I Sec~ 1-Taylor-BH 201 Sec. 3-Seiken....:BH 102 Math 185-Mathematical Models in the Life Sciences~Bick-BH 104 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I, Sec. 2-Reich-8H 106 AB~ Ar~ Building CH ...._Carnegie Hall P'Y- Psychology Laboratory BH- Ba1ley ~all . . . HU- Humanities Building SS- Social Science Building Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II, Sec. 1-Jones~N 102 Physics 14-Elements of Modern Physics, Sec. 2-Davis-N 116 PSychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 2-Broida- PY 113 Psychology 20--Statistical Methods in Psychology-Greenberg-PY 213 Psychology 31-Abnormal Psychology-Nydegger-PY 102 BU -Butterfield Hall N- North Wing, Science/Eng. Ctr. SH ~Steinmetz Hall MONDAY,JUNE4-8:~0-10:30A.M. Classics .23-Hist?ry of ~Rome: The Empire-,. Toher-HU 019 EconoDllcs 36-Fmanmal Markets ........ Lewis-88 112 Economics 63-The Economics of Health-Lambrinos.....,:BH 312 - Engl!sh 21-,--cMajor En~lish Authors III: Tennyson-J 0 yclr-Ullinann-HU 213 English 2:J---,.. The American Short Story~ado---HU 112 English 56-Shakespeare after 1600-Freund-HU 115 lJ!s~<!fY ~0-History and Society: The Emergence and Character of Traditional Ctvliizatlon-,Hansen, Wells-ss 115. History 27---Twentieth-Century America in F.eatureFilms-Dunar~CH 205 History 58'--The Holocaust-Berk-ss 016 · French 134-MasteringSpoken French, Sec. 1- Thomas-HU 116 Italian 1~Basicitalian I, Sec .. l~DiSalvo-SS 014 German 11-Basic German II-Kellenter, Warde-HU no Russian 12-Intermediate Russian I-Jernakoff-HU 113 Spanish 11-Basic Spanish II, Sec. 2-Ginsberg-HU 114 Phi~~sophy ~1......Symbolic Logic:-Ludwig-HU 117 PolltlcalSctence 1~ContempQrary Political Analysis Sec. 1-Board_,..gg 117 Political Scienc.e 45-:Chinese Political Behavior- Thurston-ss 113 Sociology 34-Race and Ethnic Relations-s. Gmelch-8S 110 Biology 11-:-- Topics in Contemporary Biology-B. Boyer Schadler-ss 012 Biology 23- The Cell-G. Smith-BH 207 ' Biolo~y 154-Chordate Embryology-Rappaport----N 116 Chemistry 12-Fundamental Chemistry II Sec.1-Foust-BU 204 Sec. 2-Foust--:BU 204 Sec .. 3-Schaefer-BU 204 Chemistry 150-Physical Chemistry I-Hayes-N 014 · Mathematics 19- Topics in Discrete Mathematics- Taylor-BH 104 Mathematics 21-Mathematical Methods for the Social Sciences, Sec. 2-Niefield-BH 106 Mathematics 41-Linear Algebra I, Sec. 2-8tone-BH 203 . Mathematics 101-Advanced Calculus for Engineers, Sec.1-Barbanel~BH 108 Mathematics 134-Differential Equations-RosenthaF--BH 102 Physics 13~Introduction to Physics II, Sec. 2-8chick-N 012 Physics 24-Statistical Thermodynamics-Maleki~N 016 Physics 44-Introduction to Astr.onomy-Titus-8H 106 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 3-Benack~PY 113 Psychology 166-Brain and Behavior-Broida-PY 213 E.L.L. 12~Homes, Buildings and EngineeringPrinciples~Harlow-BH 201 E.S.1D--Mechanics I, Sec. 1-Weiss-BU 109 ; · MONDAY, JUNE 4--8:3()..10:30 A.M. E.S.lO-Mechanics I, Sec. 2'-Lakhanpal-BU300 E.S. 33-Fluid Systems Analysis-Ketchum-N 222 E.S. 42-signals and Systems, Sec.1~Craig-BU 106 C.S. 40-Machine and Assembly Language, Sec. 2-Federighi-N 210 C.S. 42-Numerical Methods~Wong-BH 205 MONDAY,JUNE.4-11:15-1:1iP.M. Economics 11-Elementary Economics Sec. 1-Reynolds-SS 115 Sec. 2-Reynolds-SS 115 Philosophy 61-Philosophy of Religion-Morris-HU 110 Philosophy 14~ocial Philosophy-Baker-HU 116 Political Science 169-Seminar: American Politics~Brown-ss 117 Sociology 13Hociology of Mental Health-Belyea-ss 113 Statistics 110-Introduction to Statistical Methods-Schmee-,.BH 201 Accounting 11-Financial Accounting II-Hurley-BH 205 Psychology 24-Social Psychology-Lipton-PY 113 E.E. 152-Microprocessors and Microcomputers: Architecture, Programming, and Applications-Gajjar-BH 207 · MONDAY,~ 4-2:00-4:00P.M. Economics 20-Introduction to Statistical Analy,sis-:Fried-ss 117 Hebrew 12-Intermediate Hebrew II-Heckelman-HU 110 Philosophy 78-Technological Values-Patrik, Kaminsky-HU 117 Political Science 7~Civil Liberties-Long-ss 113 Sociology 133---Seminar in Personality and SocialStructure-Kaplan-ss 010 Sociology 137---Sociology of Developing Countries:.....Huggins-88 110 Accounting 10-Financial Accounting I~Arnold-BH 207 Biology 36-Jnvertebrate Zoology-B. Boyer-BH 102 Math 180-Foundations of Mathematics-Zwicker....:BH 105 Psychology 153---Seminar in Psychology and the Criminal Justice System-Lip- ton-PY204 · E.X.ll-Engineering Graphics-Weiss-BU.104 C.E.l70--DesignProject-Harlow--\BU 300 C.S. 10-Perspectiveson Computers-E. Robbil).s-BH 104 C.S. 11-Programming for the Social Sciences-Albright-SS 115 C.S. 260---Software Engineering Seminar-Williams-N 016 TUESDAY,JUNE5-8:3D-10:30A.M. Freshman Preceptoriali~Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 3-Anderson-BH 106 Greek 12-Greek Reading-8orum-HU 119 . · Economics 10-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2--Klein---SS 113 Economics 39-Public Finance-Schaffer-ss 012 English 44-Humanities: Engllghtenment and Romanticism-Freund~HU 116 History 50---Western Imperialism in the ·Nineteenth and Twentieth Cen· turies-Hansen-ss 016 · · History 71-The Modern History .of the Middle East-Berk-88 U7 French 12----Intermediate French-Wetterhall-\:HU 117 French 139-A Survey of French Literature 11-Warger-:-HU 213 Spanish U -Basic Spanish II, Sec. 1-Qualtere---HU 110 Philosophy 12~Philosophical Problems-Kaminsky-CH 205 _ PoliticalScience 12-Contemporary International Politics-Brown-ss 112 Political Science 20-Social Data Analysis-Hartwig--SS 010 Socilogy 10-Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 1-Lyng...:...SS 115 . Sociology 62-social Data Analysis-:-Hartwig--88 010 E.S. 10--Mechanics I~Kennedy-N 210 E :S. 32~Electrical Circuits and Devices II, Sec. 2'-Kump-N 014 C.E. 15-Fundamentals of ComputationalCivil Engineering-Jewell-BU 300 C.E. 150:-Water Resources-snow-BU 100 · E.E. 36-System Theory II-Gurubasav:araj~HU 115 C.S. llJ..,-Introduction to Computer Organization,·sec. 1-Hassib-HU 019 C.S. 40-Machine and Assembly Language, Sec.1-Federighi-N 222 'rUESDAY,JUNE5-11:15-1:1iP.M. Latin 131J..,-Lyric and Elegaic Poetry- Toher-Hb 213 English 27-Comedy-Heinegg-BU 204 English 32-Author Studies: Cooper, Faulkner, and Warren: History as Myth in : the American Novel-Gado-HU 112 Italian 10-Basic Italian I, Sec. 2-Di Salvo-HU 114 Spanish 12---Intermediate Spanish-Ginsberg-HU 117 Spanish 14D--Cervantes: Don Quijote--DiSalvo-HU 114 C.E.ll-Advanced Communications-Griggs-BU 109 TUESDAY, JUNE 5-2·: 00-4:00 P.M. ·Philosophy 7~Philosophy of Law....:Taylor-HU 114 Math 12~Calculus II Sec. 3---$arma-BH 106 _, Sec.1-Muckenfuss-BH 108 - Sec. 4-Lysko-BH207 _Sec. 2-Rousseau-BH 102 Sec. 5-Sarma--BH 106 Math 14-C~lculus III Math 30....:0rdinary Differential Equations Sec.l-Bick-BH 203 Sec.l-Maddaus'-BH201 Sec .. 2-Canjar~BH104 Sec. 2~Lysko-BH207 WEDNESDAY,JUNE6-8:30..10:30A.M. i 1 ~eshman Preceptorial 10-Perception and Persuasion, .Sec. S-Q. Gmelch-ss Classics 43-Classical Mythology-Sorum-HU 019 Latin 12-Latin Reading- Toher-HU 119 Economics31-Microeconomic Analysis-Reynolds-SS 112 Economics 42-Macroeconomic Theory and Policy-Schaffer-ss 113 English 40-Literature of the Bible-Freund-HU 114 E!lglish 52-Literature of the ~iddle Ages-Higgins-HU 116 History 42~Renaissance Europe: Petrarch to Machiavelli-Sargent-ss 010 French 134-Mastering Spoken French, Sec. 2-McDermott-HU 112 F~ench 146- The Individual in Crisis in Twentieth-Century French LJterature-VVarger--F.nJ110 German l~InterniediateGerman'-Mache-,.HU 213 · Pb.ilosophy 43-Metaphysics-Kaminsky....:HU 115 Pc.~t~cal Sc~ence 11-Contem~orary American Politics-Hartwig-SS 117 P()~tteal Sctence 55-InternatiOnal Security Affairs-Brown-ss 012 S?ciology 10-Introduction ~o Sociology, Sec. 2-Lyng-88 115 B1ology 66---Sex and Sexuality, Sec. 1-Butter-stein Lambert-BH 207 Biolo~y 165-Neural Circuits and B~havior-Qlberg-BH 104 Chenustry 1~Furtdamental Chenustry I Sec.1-Werner--BU204 Sec. 2-Anderson~BU 204 Sec. 3-Hayes~BU 204 Chemistry 134-0rganic Chemistry III-Martin-BH 205 Math 18:--Introduction to Logic and Set Theory-Seiken-BH 108 Math 35-Number Theory-Niefield-BH 100 Math 101-Advanced Calculus for Engineers, Sec. 2-Canjar--BH 102 Physics 13-Introduction to. Physics II;Sec. 3-Bell-N ()12 Physics 125-Modern Computing Methods in Physics-Reich-sH 100 Psychology 38-Developmental Psychology-Rice-PY 213 E.L.L. 49-Nuclear Technology in War and Peace: A Study of Issues and Choices-Shanebrook-N 014 - · ··- · · · · E~S. 42-8ignals and Systems, Sec. 2-Chang-BU 106 C. E. 35-Water Resources and the Environment--8now~BU 109 C.E,l51-Hydr,aulics and Hydrology-Jewen....:...Bu 300 E.E.llQ.-..;Device Electronics-Kump-N 016 E.E:.l-48--Digital Circuits-Hassib-N 116 M.E. 4D--Enginee~ng Design I-~isenstadt-N 222 M.E. 40-Engineermg Design I-Guntur-N 210 C.S. 18-Introduction to Computer Organization, Sec. 2-Branch-BH 201 W~DNESDA Y, JUNE 6-11:15-1: 11) P.M. History 30- The Development of the American Economy-Finkelstein-88 113 History 161- The Catholic Church in Latin America-Bristol--ss 110 German 140-Das Deutsche Mittelalter-Warde-HU 110 ~thropology 11-'Comparing Cultures through Film-G. Gmelch....,SS 115 Btol~gy 164--Ethology-George-N 116 C.E. 12......,Ethics and Professionalism-Griggs-BT:J 109 C.S. 12-Programming for the Sciences-Albright-BH 201 C.S. 34-COBOL and Information Processing-schwarz-BH 106 C.S. 37-Structured Programming-8pallholz-BH 108 . . WEDNESDAY, JUNE 6,-2:00..4:00 P.M. Eco~omics 10-Elem~ntary Economics,.Sec.l-Prosper-ss 115 English 18----'Introductwn to the Study of Literary Forms-Higgins-HU 110 History 26-The United.States in the World Arena-Dunar-88 113 History 52-Modern France: The Paris Commune to De Gaulle-Hansen-ss 117 French 11-Basic Frenchii--McDermott'-HU 114 SJ?anish 134-Masteri~g Spok7n Spanish-Qualtere-HU 116 B10logy 18-Introductwn to BIOlogy II, Sec.l, 2&3-Frohlich-BH207 Chemistry 16-Inorganic Chemistry I -scaife-BH 205 Chemistry 30---\Qrganic Chemistry-1-McGahey-BH 108 Gedlogy u......:Historical Geology-Dobday-BU 106 Matb.10-Calculus 1-Muck.enfuss-BH 102 Phys!cs 11-Introductionto Physics I, Sec. 1-A. Anderson-sa 106 Physics 14-Elements of Modem Physics, Sec; 1-Newman-N 116 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 1-Huntley-PY 102 t.S. 21}---Mechanics II-Panlilio-N 222 E.S. 2hElectrical Circuits and Devices II, Sec. 1---Branch-BH201 E.S. 70---Managerial and Engineering Economics-Griggs-BU 109 . C.E.129-Structures 11-Lakhanpal-BU 104

Page 12 . CONCORD/ENS/~: Mo.r I 7, 1984 Delta Chi's Molson. Keg Party Friday, May 18th I 0:30p.m. c H • A rewarding ' . $7· 95 ,repast. · • • • . ·• Every Su·nda y, you can enjoy a delicious champagne ,brunch served in the refreshing atmosphere of our Brass Lantern Restaurant. So come and rela·x 0ver , , 'brunch at our Ramada - where we've got a new · world for you. Live Mus.i·c ·BeTh.erel Dance Under the tt Stars at .. SDT!! Saturday, May 19th 11 :00-? Come shine at Sigma Delta Tau all are welcome! Sigma Phi's Annual Rum&Reggae Party Is this Friday afternoon! May 18 at 1:00 p.m. DAIQUIRIS, BEER FOOD ( BYOG and Party with JAH) .. Tri Delta's Annual GREEK GOD PARTY Saturday, May 19th at 10:00 Buy a vote for your Greek God · and grab a toga/ Benefits go to Children's Cancer and Women's Scholarship RAMADA® INN 450 Nott Street, Schenectady, NY Call for reservations (518) 370-7151. P\-\ \ DELT~ ~~A~t\l\)AL SUNPDRG\ PARTy .. ,_,......._,.- Senio-r Fling Committee Hosts: \A Touch ofC/ass\ A formal dance at the Gideon Putnam in Saratoga Springs, N. Y. 9 p.ni.-1 a.m. Friday, May 18, 1984 ' Tickets will only he Oil sale until Thursday, May 17 at 4 p.m~ Those intending to take the bus must sign up in Mrs. Marra's office on Thursday for $1. Rooms I Apts. Wanted for Summer College students from throughout the country wi II be at General EJectric Corporate Research and Development this summer for a technical internship program and are in need of summer housing. • Please call Phyllis Martinez at 385-8164 JNTJ Sum Interns: Schene• the rn applica. with nu and.pe<i commUJ onal a11 Juniors Send re nor, D1 Ferry , 12305. j availabl TheN of I placemE students governm and juve areas r services. data pro informat and ; program SUMl\1 TERNS I Cross gat' full-time stqdents and seni' terested l managen per hr. 1 the intel'l the sch students apply. A May 25. I Penney, Washingt Albany, . Ms. Kane CLUJJ NE\VMJ Sunday, Pi St. John's Newma Sunday, Pi John's Cl rehearse Congrega1 .p.m. Mas: Guest May 21, Lounge. 'l Office h Harney, F who has li '· i . ), !..A\t'E. R, •., tiE¥ • 'f\1 f\'t lltA!-t..Y ~ I?Oi I~

·CONCORDIEJVSIS, Ma)\/7 1984 Pagel3 INTERNSHIPS Summer Advertising Internship: DTV Advertising, Schenectady. Internship is in the media area. Successful applicants will be able to deal with numbers, problem-solving and people, and will bave good communications, organizati- onal and interpersonal skills. Juniors or Seniors preferred. Send resume to Diane O'Con- nor, DTV Advertising, 111 S. Ferry St., Schenectady, NY 12305. Additional information available in CDC. The New York State Division ·Of Probation: Intern placements available for students interested in state government and-or the criminal and juvenile justice systems in areas related to probation services. Includes electronic data processing, management information, juvenile planning and alcohol treatment programming. SUMMER RETAIL IN· TERNSHIP: J.C. Penney; Crossgates Mall, is sponsoring a full-time summer intevnship for stqdents between their jUnior and senior years who are in- terested in learning about retail management. Pay will be $5.50 per hr. There is a possibility the intern may stay on during the school year. Minority students are encouraged to apply. Application deadline: May 25. Send reswne to: J.C. Penney, Crossgates Mall, 120 Washington Avenue Extension, Albany, NY 12203, Attention: Ms. Kane. CLUB NEWS NEWMAN STEAK ROAST- Sunday, May 20, 2 p.m. Outside St. John's Rectory. Newman Folk Group- Sunday, May 20 will meet in St. John's Church at 7 p.m. to rehearse before leading the Congregation in song at the 7:30 . p.m. Mass. Guest Speaker-Monday, May 21, 7 :'30 p.m., Strauss Lounge. The Campus Ministry Office has invited James Harney, Free Lance Journalist who has lived and worked in the controlled zones of El Salvador to speak on ''El Salvador: Election Report and Com- mentary.\ Ail welc()me. Confirmation Class- Tues- da.Y •. May 22, _7-8 pm. Campus Mmutry off1ce. 'F'or Uni:on students preparing for con- firmation on May 26. Theatre Party- Thursday, May}4- at Proctor's, 8 p.m. to see . Camelot.\ Gr~up tickets may be obtained for $10.80 thr?ugh the Campus Ministry Offlc~. 37~087. TERMS ABROAD TERMS ABROAD--If you still wish to go on a term abroad in the winter term, 1985, there are still places open for the term abroad in Israel. Application blanks and ad- ditional information are available iil the Terms Abroad office, HU 211. · SPEAKERS THE UNION COLLEGE PRE-HEALTH SOCIETY presents a seminar on \Experiments of N'ature-An Approach · to Clinical Investigation\ by Dr. Richard Pickering, Professor of Pediatrics and Micr-ob'iology- Immunology, Albany Medical College, Thursday, May 17 at 4:30 p.m. SS115. ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENGINEERING SYSTEMS COLLOQIUM presents: James Benson, Vice President of Marketing, Thomas J. Lipton Company, \New Product Development and Laimching: The Cup-A-Soup Case History'-' on May 24, from 3:45·5:00 p.m. in Bailey Hall, Rm. 312. THE COALITION AGAINST AP AR'THEID AND RACISM is sponsoring an eveni11g called Focus on South Africa on Friday, May 25 at 7:30p.m. ai the Wilborn Temple CllUrch, 121 Jay St. in Albany. Guest speaker will be Mr'. David Ndaba, Administrative Secretary of the -African National Congress Observer Mission to the United Nati1ms. The public is invited ... for more information call 489-1767, TH:E FILM COMMITTEE PRESENTS: Double Feature- \Psycho\ and \Psycho H\- May ltJ-:20 .. I at 7, II at 9' and 11. \A Sense of Loss\-May 22 at 7:30, 10. Double Feature-\Kentucky Fried Movie\ and \The Groove Tube\-May 23 at 7, 10. All .movies in SS 106. CLASSJHEDS Typing done for students. PleE,tse contact 346-5104 Niskayuna area Please contact 355-3239 Knows medical terminology Please contact 377-4215 Scotia area. Typlng-Papers typed with professional results by executive secretary. Fast service and accurate proofreading at $1 per page. Call Judy 399-3383. CAR STEREO FOR SALE. · Blaupunkt 20002 AM-FM-- Cassette $150.00. Jensen car speakers, co-axil, 25 watts per · side $30. Call Roberta at 374- 8769. OFF-CAMPUS JOBS: Summer work, Warehousing part-time 8 to 2 (flexible). Checking stock and inventory and receiv~g stock. Location: 1459 Santa Fe St., Schenectady, NY 12303 · (right off Michigan Ave.). Please contact 377-0548 and ask for Randy or Robert. Full-time salesman for summer work. Must have driver's license. For further information please contact 377- 0548 and ask for Randy or Ro~ert. FOR SALE: 1970 Buick Skylark-Silver only 49,000 miles!! AM-FM Cassette, air conditioned, power steering and brakes, great engine, runs well, powerful. Asking $950. Call 370- 6833 after 7. CAMERA BUFF???? Cannon Super Sureshot with Ikelite tJE LL 1 G.O<ll> PIZZA l\'t.tJ I t-'1'< F~ It !'IDS AL.t.. SAY I'M ToO fUf\11\ iO f't.AY LAiE. R, , •. , IT IS ~ f!.(!.S 1:7 ~ PIZl..A -1~ \(OV t1tJD H~YJ '(oU l:::tJoW 0JH,:!T? t'L£. :rcJST u:-r Yov'!!l:!. s-rR0~>~6' r;:tJou€.11 t'lFrE~ -n-1117 otJ£ fl z. --t- A -ro 5~::~• -r:..tost.. (AT SOME ~li~Y f)rt,YJ voo 1 L.LG£•·s,, fs-r~tJGl ~~.~--.----1 \ t;o·'-f!Ll .. E-ll ff!lt.tJD$ oF Y. o<JRS ;o \'A fU/..P! wtl\\ Oo!ll1- )'o(.) ~otJ '?' II . A/...orJ G 1'\ NO t~Y 11\ • • . \'f'l-IE ·GooD PIZUl MqtJ WIL.L. Sta St:£.1,.../N~ fOoD 1\ND fJR ltJI<-S. 1\T DIIV·H>SorJ Be.f)~ fiN I) t;T w-'Sl\ f 1e:L.D THIS Wf:t..r;;.l:.t:.IJO. CAMPUS NEWS housing. Many features. For sale ... $225,00 or best reasonable offer. Contact Sue at the Computer Center-6293. A NEW STUDENT ORGANJZATlON: Alliance to Save tlte S·keller With Imagination Purpose and Eloquence. PERSONALS Hey Ptm1pki.n head, Psyched for Siouxsie and the swnmer! I ! Love ya, Lester Barry and Pete: Hey you guys: \Thanks for coming.\ Suzanne and April ATTENTION SCOTT KOZAR! ! ! We can't wait to see harey hiney! l! P~S. and we're likin' it!! ! TERD, Happy B-Day!!!! Muh, muh (always)!!!! ++POOPER SDT Seniors-Beware! You didn't bury your dirt deep enough! SINGLE MALE JEWISH Bunny--Cute,. Aubu.r-n and Loving, Seeks young ·FJB to share good times and possible future relationship. Must enjoy carrots, color TV and tnavel. ·send photo; Harvey Box 1795. Dave, Once you go once, there is no way t~ not go again. The sisters of Delta Gamma would like to congratulate the newly initiated brothers of Delta Upsilon. JSU Spring Barbec11e, Monday,. May 21 at 4:00 in Jackson Gardens. All are welcome. Chicken, hamburgers, free beer and more. Non-members $1.00, members free. \PH'NGLUI mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn!\ IF you can translate this and give the author's name I want to hear from you. Send it on a note with your 'box number to Box 1122 .. To \my\ Julie, alias Da:vey- Congratulations! !,! You'll be the best rep ever! I love you! Love, Cindy To all SDT' s-Only I lmow who will be the next President ofour infamous club ..... Dirt R, Je t'aime ... touj()urs Echo To the new board members of the ETA chapter: Good luck with your job. and try to make things work. Signed: The Old Board Thanks to the committee that worked out the Senior Fornial; everyone should have a great time!!!! Gregggggg-I hopethat Mary Jo does a good \job.\ If there is anyone that is still interested in shooting pictures for the 1984 yearbook please leave your name and number and box number in Box 2538. We need help!!!! Karen-It's not St. Patrick's Day, so tell what the story is already. To the men who \Survived\- it was a fu:n time. I love your hair, Eric. ! ! ! !Juice for Greek God!!!! TO MOLBFWITEDC-Co- ngratulations on your promotion-you'll always be my curly little blond friend-even when you're a doctor!! All my love, Cindy To Gregg and Renee- Everyone's dying to know Dear Steve, Congratulations, what's up, Mr. President!! Love, Cindy Dear Miss Susie-How's the HAPPY BIRTHDAY LORI- project going?? Your partner is Hope yo11r day is amazing! dying to know. Love, DES !.G.-With whom are you R.N.-I think it is pretty in· MFing with now? teresting that your initials are the same as those of the 37th Lisa-The day that we P 'd t B' S became friends has been · res1 en . . . - CURSED by many people, but Rudy, isn't it great that both to hell with them because I am of us can express our different glad that it happened! ! ! Julie opinions on the same subject and not be afraid of censorship E·bone, Boop-oop de-doop, I or suppression by higher love my barbalootl Im' forever, authorities. Signed, Beau your red, juicy T-hone! Rainabelle: Happy 17th birth- day! (A little early maybe, but you've only been reminding me for weeks .... ) ... Sweet Seventeen and never been -. Maybe Camp Union??!? Fr-om a close personal relative Lori, Congratulations on St. Andrews! Think of us. when you are in Scotland. We're all going to miss you. . Love, Stacey, Stevelee, Craigala, J.D. and Lynch ----~~- FUh on a Monday afternoon. Davey Dog, Who loves ya buddy? Take a guess! Dear dog breath dave, Though times together have been few, When it comes to best bud- dies, You know it's you! Love, T SOT -Get psyched for Sat. nite. Ellen and Amy-Good luck on your first party-you've done a great job already! THE MAGIC FLUTE afllmby Ingmar Bet:gman based on Mozart's opera will be shown in SS 016 ~t8:~p.m. · · THURSDAY MAY17,1984

Page 14 ('ONCORDJENSJS: Mar 17, 1984 ~~~~'!:~_., ............. , .... -.; .. ~, ..... • .,..;.,.·.,..,. •••••••••• :. ••••••••• :: • Don't Miss: ~ 0 0 Q BETA SUNSET PARTY. ~ 1&1 ...1 II. Ill z 0 OPENING TONIGHT! May 17-19, 23, 24, 26 at 8 p.m. May 25 at 7 p.m. Get tickets at Nott Memorial from 1 :30-5:30p.m. daily All seats $2.50 U.S. OUT OF CENTRAL AMERICA (USOCA) If you are interested in finding out more about the international violations of the U.S. and its activitie.s during this Central American crisis, please contact Ira Bethea a1 381-6618 or Prof. Huggins in the Sociology Dept. Tomorrow there wUI be a table at Carnegie Hall where literature on Central America will be ava.ilable. You will also be able to find out about starting a USOCA chapter here at Union! Last chance to become a financial member of the Union Colleg·e Investment Alliance It is MANDATORY for· all financial members to attend - voting on in- vestment decisions will take place. The meeting Will be TONIGHT, Thursday at 8:30p.m. in Strauss Lounge (Carnegie) If you are unable to attend, please contact Russ Fein at 377-0820. ·····------------·-·---, I WING WAGON 1 I ~·~ ~~ I 12~ -.. Jlr -:r--x~ • 1 ~~·. ....1-3 _ ··\'·~,~~. ...~ ... - .. 827 McClelJa,n Street I 1 f\. J.. · · ~ '! · Schenectady I I 'i't't' . BaU.da Style I I . 'Cb!ckeu Wings I I Monday-Thursday :Ham-lam I 1 Friday-Saturday 11am-2:00am I 1 Sunday • 12pm--12am I I Ordet By Phone or Eat In ! I ~ ~ I 393·0164 . 11 I Buy 20 or More Wi~gs a~d------ I 1 Get 10.FREE . I •••••• Good thru.May 23rd except Wed •. nights ·• .... friday, May .J 8th 3~:3,0·-9:00 p.m. Tickets: $2.00· in advance $3~00 at the door Beta's Famous Punch Beer • Entertainment Proce.eds benefit The Law, Order & Justice Society In case ·Of rain, bring an umbrella 1984-85 Fall Term Preregistration Notice Pre-registration materials for fall term 1984-85 are now avail11ble~ at the Office of the Registrar, located in Silliman Hall. Students are urg~d to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to .return to Union for the fall term, except for graduating seniors, must immediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. St.udents should confer with Fac~lty Advisers during the week. of May 14-18. Some departments may announce s,pecial arrang.ements ior ad- vising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, May 21st. A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THEREAFTER! Please be on time even though your schedule may be in .. complete! The World Is Your Campus Two around-the-world sailing.s each year Departs in September from Seattle and in February from Ft. Lauderdale with stops in the Orient, South Asia, the Middle East and the Mediterranean. A representative will be in Carnegie Hall today, May 17, from 10·2 p.m. There will be a slideshowat7 p.m. in HU OlCJ. Adult Education Programs also available Sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh, Semester at Sea offers students a superior full semester academic program and supporting fie'ld experiences. This bne semester, fu-11 credit -experience is 9Vailable to qualified students from all accredited colleges and universities. More than 60 voyage-related university courses. Faculty drawn from the University of Pitt- sburgh and other leading universities, augmented by visiting area experts. Optional tcurs, including special tours into J·he People's Republic of China, available. Semester at Se.a admi.ts students without regard to color, race or creed. The s.s. Universe is fully air-conditi.oned, 18,000 tons, registered in Liberia and :built in America. For a free color brochure, write: Semester at Sea, UCIS, University of. Pitt- sburgh, Forbes Quadrangle, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, or caH ton free (800) 854- 0195 (in Pennsylvania (412) 624-6021). SEMESTE·R .AT SEA The World Is Your Campus! - - - Cr• Thi crew parti1 Reg a Phih colle! the r them latest brou~ four, men': calim outcl . ' ' or At Pr1 30 We N< • l ·\' . ' • l ov -II D Carie at fin man~ Mane: skill t peop. getst w~ek andr passt · stron! a con Arm) shipt lenge your::

' Crew To Go To Sem·i-,Finals · By E.W. HARRIS . Sports Staff This past weekend Union's crew team traveled south to participate in the Dad Vail Regatta Nationals in Philadelphia. Eighty seven colleges, among them some of the most prestigious crews in the nation were pres~nt with the latest in crew technology. Union brought three crews; a men~s four, ~a WODJep's reight, and a men's eight and it's museum caliber shell. Despite being outclassed equipment wise, Union more than made_ up for this defi~iency in it's spirit and dedication. AU three crews performed respectively with the men's four, who had only been together for two days, losing to the University of Alabama by only two seconds and the women coming in less than half a boat length behind the · prestigious Johns Hopkins crew. Union's best performance was given by the men's eight which beat rival Ithaca College soundly to qualffy fop the semi- finals. However, the brightest moment of the entire weekend occurred on Saturday morning when Union's men's eight rescued a drowning man who had driven into the river. Union's .spirit of adventure was present even .in it's lodging accomodations. While the other crews jodged in comfort at the Hilton and the Marriot, Union camped out under the stars and felt in tune with nature; The Dad Vail Regatta was a pleasant el{perience for all and will hopefully be attended by Un.ion crew teams for a long time to come. The future looks bright for the crew team. With'the possibility of more funding, new equip- ment will help and another year · together ought to make Union a prime contender in future regattas. Track Strong At States (516)481-4034. Toll Free: 800·222· TEST or write: By T .0. AND C.O.D. SportsStaff- The NYST&F A State Championships were held this weekend,just 85 miles down I-88 at Elway Field on the campus of Hartwick College. Scott Remillard threw his way to two fourth place showings in the hammer and discus (164 ft. 10 inches, 146 ft. 8 inches, respectively) to tally the first of Union's twenty points. Mark Dunn narrowly missed scoring twice, placing seventh in both the hammer and discus (145 ft. 9 incpes, 139 ft. 10 inches). Chris O'Donnell assumed a tactical position in the middle of , the }1ack of twelve steeple chasers before working his way to a fine third place finish and a school record of 9:39.4. Aft.ef a delay of the meet due to rain, Bill Lichtman threw his javeim 163 ft. 8 inches for a sevenlih place finish on the muddy grass approach. Bob Bertagna weathered the storm ·with a fourth place triple jump of 44ft. 3 inches. Adding to Union's point total were Win- ston Britton and Gary Wenner. Junior speed merchant Britton cruised to a 49.4, si:x:th place finish in the 400 meter. Wenner also placed sixth with a vault of 13 ft. AdelphiUniversitV' Preparation Courses 307 Eagle Avenue West Hempstead, N.Y. 11552 Next Week Will Be NOW OFFERED IN: • Long ·Island . • Manhattan • NewJefsey • Upstate NY • Westehester GUARANTEE: Score In th·e lop 25% or take lhe·next . course:FREE. .AIIU,I\'ftl In cooperalton w1th The Nat,onal Center for Educational Tesltng Inc The Last Issue Of Concordiensis For The School Year. IfO.C.S. (Army Officer Candidate School) looks tangential at flrst, look again. Look at it from management's point of view. Management wants engineering skill plus leadership ability in the people it mov-es up the ladder. . O.C.S. is a great place to get started on leadership. It is a 14-- w~ek challenge to your mental · and physical toughness. And if you pass the tests, you will come out strong, s~r~ and in_~ea~ shape- a commtsstoned officer m the Army, ready to exercise the leader-- · · . ship that ciVilian companies put such a premium on. . . If you are about to get your degree in engineering, the O.C.S. chal-- lenge could be your best next step. . . . To find out more about O.C.S., call the Commandtng Offtcer tn your area: ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAM BE. PagelS Union Ruggers John Whalen, Scott Collins and Tim Reilly swarm Albany Old Green fly hold in Saturday's 10-6 Garnet victory. Union College 'Rugby Club's Banquet at Tiffany's Date to be determined Please give $5 to Gene Gass at practice today Todd Flanagan ducks a George Capozzi right during the heavyweight con:test last Tuesday. See the Intramural Spotlite on page 16. · Guidelines for Dutchman's Night Reservations Reservations for Dutchman's Night will only be accepted at the Pizza Pub during normal business hours Monday through Thursday. • When mak-ing reservations all persons or meal cards must be present. This is to insure proper reservation taking. • The party .must be booked all at once, this will insure a better dining atmosphere. We cannot accept ''maybe\ reservations. • Cash reservations are welcome. Those who will be paying for dinner, please pay at the door. • A person must bring his-be.r ID, meal card and entry ticket at Dutchman's Night. If these are not present, a person cannot be seated. • Anyone caught using another individual's I D, meal card or dinner ticket will be turned over to the director of food service. Meal card and I D will be taken. • Because of a large dining room turnover, we ask that you be prompt for dinner. This will insure an easy turnover, and no waiting for · people at·.later seatings. Last Dutchman's Night of the Year will be Sat., May 19 Make reservations now! Thank you for your patronagel Management of the Dutch Hollow Pub

Page 16 C()NCORIJIE.NSJ.~~ May 17, 198./ SPORTS Union Ruggers On A Roll ByUCRFC Sports Staff The Rugby Club notched two more victories Saturday with victories against RPI and Albany Old Green to lift its record to 8-4. After a delayed starting time and some initial trouble in the opening minutes of the first game, the Garnet bounced back to continue its, dominating mode of play. Playing in the rain and mud, the ruggers started the af .. ternoon off with a 4-0 win over the Engineers of RPI. From the opening kick-off though, Union seemed a bit stunned, for RPI quicklymoved the ball deep into Garnet territory. Yet, the ruggers' defense held strong to hold back the surprisingly rapid RPI surge. After the first ten minutes of the game, and keeping its opponentsscoreless, the Union squad regrouped turning the tide in its own favor. After this the RPI offense did all it could to muster success, but the Garnet defense refused to yield as it completely shut down the visiting team's attack. Playing abbreviated halves of 25 minutes each, the teams played to a 0-0 deadlock in the first half. As for the second half, it was all Union. A Garnet score came early into play which put Intramural Spot J!lr ByG.W. Sports Staff c: .c Ill ~ \0 'iii J: >- .a E 0 .c Pnion up for good. John Friske broke off the pack from eighth- man and plunged in for the winning try. Though it was the only score of the game, it was only because of thoughtless mistakes on the part of Union that kept itself frarn blowing the game out. In the second game, after a number of replacements on the Union team, Albany Old Green · was defeated 10-li. Also in this game though the Garnet started the game off very slowly allowing its opponents' only try of the day. Early into the half, the Old Green fly-half put a boot on the ball which when hitting the ground took a nasty bounce over a Union defender and back into the oncoming fly\half's hands. From here the way was clear for the Albany back to bring it in for his team • s only try of the game. The conversion was successful and Old Green led by 6.0. Refusing to suffer defeat, the Garnet ruggers bounced back on the following kick-off and marched their way on to a score. Off a successful serum- down, several sweet passes from Dave BPal to Andy Kllinlpp to Tim Riley opened :the way for Union to put itself up on the board. Riley then brought it in and put it down behind the goal- posts. Meade Swnmers split the uprights on the conversion tying the score at six. Minutes later came the winning try as the Garnet returned with the baH in possession deep into Albany territory. After a five-meter serum-down, the line worked it out where it had to set up a platform. Coming out of the maul was Summers who pit- ched out to Ed Hart. Hart then rolled over three defenders narrowly putting the .ball in the corner of the try-zone for his first try ofthe season. The score stood at 10-4i and Union had its second victory of the day. Saturday the RFC will travel to Lincoln Park in Albany where it will face a rematch against Albany Old Green. o. Ed Hart wins ball tor Union. during lineout. Ruggers finish their season Saturday at Albany. Ends season with two win·s . . . I Scott Wykoff On Sports Now that the Spring SpOrts season ha come ·to an end, here's a little bit of this mi:Ked in with a little bit of that to keep you in the sporting spirit. Banquet Time: The many Union student athletes, coaches and athletic staff members will · have their collective· day in the sun this evening at the Athletic Department and the Friends of Union Athletics Annual Athletic Banquet. The evening of fun recog.nizes those who have participated in the in· tercollegiate athletic. program and celebrates their individual and collective achievements. Tonight should be quite an upbeat affair packed with food, frolic and friendship. Proving Ground: A handful of Olympic hopefUls will travel to Union College this weekend. to compete in Saturday's 44th - edition of the William Eddy Memorial Track Meet. The meet is a showcase for New York State's top school' boy track and field athletes. Ovet· the years some big names in track and field have made appearances at the · classic. World record long jumper· Bob Beamon competed in the Eddy Meet during his high school days when the meet was run _on the cinders at Linton High School. It looks as though this year's Olympic Team could quite possibly include some Eddy Meet alumni. The list includes such names as 1980 team member Don Paige, Shenendehowa race walker Tim LeWis and local shot putter and world class athlete Kevin Akins. Curtain Call: A man that is called upon each year to present athletic awards has recently received an award of his own. Athletic Ditectoi· Dick Sakala has been named winner of the 1984 Meritorious Award. The honor is given out each year by . the Alumni Council to a member of the faculty who has· rendered exceptional service to Union College. Sakala has had a busy year traveling half the country with Dutchman playoff squads and helping to get the Alwnni Gym renovations off the ground. Wood Grain: An article ran in a local paper earlier this~ week about Joe Wood and his choice to attend Union ·coUege four years ago. The article ad- dressed the question of why did Joe decide to pass. up the op- portunity of heading south to attend college and play baseball. When looking at schools, Wood placed a priority on playing basketball as well as baseball. Union offered a fine basketball program as well as a competitive baseball team ~nd Joe decided he would be hap- piest. at a small institution. Even with the short seasons that come in hand with nor- . theastern baseball, Wood has proven him~elf each time he has 'hit the diamond. In attending Union, Wood has also had the opportunity to compete against his two brothers. Billy, a sophomore at St. Lawrence, played outfield .for the Saints while youngest brother Tom -was a member of an BPI squad that Union walked all over early this rain-hampered season. Joe ended his four year career in the garnet with a .358 lifetime .mark at the plate. By the way, Wood admits that basketball is his favorite sport . The Intramural Boxing Tournament is the scene for this week's · Intramural Spotlite Award. The tournament con- sisted of four fights in four different weightclasses. The fights started off with the heavyweight division with George Capozzi taking on Todd Flannigan. This fight turned out to be the closest and most ex- citing bout, with each fighter landing some painful blows. When the scorecards were tallied, Cappozzi ended up edging Flannigan 145-142. The light heavyweight division followed with Joe Picanno fighting Joe Waters. Waters dominated the fight over- shadowing a gallant effort put on by Picanno. Waters won the fight· by a technical knockout after the first round. Baseba II Finishes At 9-6 Coaches Corner: Rumors have ·it that two ex-Union College football coaches have found themselves entering . the ranks of pro football. Mark Whipple is an offensive coach for the Arizona Wranglers ofthe USFL while John Lovett is said to be a member of the NY Jets coaching staff. Both coaches left Union a little over a year ago for Brown University. A head coaching change at Brown gave the two an opportUnity to move onto the USFL and NFL respectively. Darryl Hunt took on Rob Israel in the lightweight division. Hunt's previous ex- perience in the Air Force Academy as well as his 12-pound weight advantage proved to be the deciding factor in this bout. Hunt controlled the fight early and withstood a hearty comeback in the third round to take the fight 146-133. __ John Friske and Marc LeCalvez were the opponents in the middleweight division. Le Calvez's, a native of France, inexperience showed as Friske corrunanded the fight early. '!'he fight was stopped at the end of ,_: the first round with a TKO ~ awarded to Friske. >- Special thanks to judges Bob ~ Montana, Russ Ebbetts, Roger o Penland, Ed Miron, and Bob :[ Pezzano; Referee Gary Wen· ner; Timer Steve Nowak; and Trainer Larry Perez. :QyCPSIS Sports Staff Union traveled to Hartwick last week and came away with a 9-5 victory. Nat Harri~ went the distance picking up his 4th win of the season. Harris yielded 7 hits while striking out a season high 14 batters. The offense was led by Reinhardt Walker, John Moretti, Alex Rita and Pete Cohan who each had two hits. Union handle$ Williams In Union's final game of the season, the D11tchmen ended the season on a good note with an 11-9 victory over a strong William's team. Steve Alves won his third game of the. year to end an impressive freshman year at 3-0~ Ted Cannon came on to relieve Alves in the 8th to hault a mild William's threat and pick up his first save of the year. On the offensive side of the coin, Joe Wood ended a legendary Union career with 3 hits and 2 rbi' s. Tim Alibozek, John Mo:retti and Andy At the Intramural Boxing Tournament on May 3, Joe Waters won the light heavyweight title against Joe Picanoby aT .K.O. Markopolos each had two hits. Markopolos slammed his first home run of the season in the third. Andy commented, \When I swung, I knew I hit a screamer, which certainly helps my on~base percentage.\ Despite having thirteen games rained out, the Dut- chmen were able to remain close to an ECAC Playoff bid. Next year Union loses only 1 player, and maybe with a little better weather, may turn ot.Jt one of the finest seasons in Union's recent baseball past. SUPPORT UNION SPO·RTS Dutchmen Sportsweek Friday 5/18 Men's & Women's Outdoor Track Union Open- 5 p.m. Saturday 5/19 Men's Rugby--at Albany 1 p.m. -GARNET SCOREBOARD BASE BALL (9-.6} . Union 9 Union 11 Union6 Union 10 MEN'S RUGBY (8-4) Hartwk:k 5 Williams 9 RPIO Albany Old Green 6 CXHI, </l rtl Ol J: u Gi c .c a. <tJ Cl >- .0 0 +- 0 .c a. Directo who for Gt Thoma chairmar national Corpo:rati States An Union, \i rnencemE Sunday, serve as and wi1 honorary Ho The Co honorary Fleming. in engin« jamin K educator Pelikan, Sarton, nt will awa1 Bachelor' degrees degree irJ the Col menceme begin at Schaffer (Achilles Watson BrownUr career wi serving ir World W: IBM and president 1961 an< executive He was froml979 on a nur forces, Presiden1 War Aga senior fel Wilson 1 Foundat: regent c InstitutioJ .of the N; BoyScou received 1 of Free< highest c: Flemin in 1961. A. Machine been invc projects,: of the WI Civil EJ Landmar:

\' Ill 01 J: u Ill c:: ..c:: a. ttl 0 >- ..0 0 .... 0 ..c:: a. CXUI, No. 25 Director of Safety and Security Cliff Wood com meats on the student who forcibly entered President Morris' house, Schenectady, New York, :Lost Student By MIKE KNOPF Staff Recently, the President's House has been the site of two peculiar incidents. In the past few weeks structural damage was discovered in rear portions of\the roof. In addition, during the early morning of Sunday, May 6, the house was forcibly entered. Fortunately, neither of these incidents was considered serious and . was successfully handled .bY the Physical Plant and Campus Security. The break-in was· apparently a case of \mistaken identity.\ According to Clifford Wood, J)irector of Safety and Security, an \overindulged\ student lost his way on campus and mistakenly confused the President's House for his own residence. Finding the rear entrance locked, the student broke the door, triggering the building's alarm syStem and alerting security. Security quickly arrived on the scette and apprehended the intruder. Graduation Is Almost Here The fact that theJie was no attempt to burglarize tbe house was emphasized by Wood. The student, W{)od recounted, simply \went back to the wrong place.\ Unable to enter, the student thought that \his brothers had locked him out\ and proceeded to break down the door. The student has agreed to ~Y for all damages and must appear before the Conduct Committee to answer for his actions. Director · Wood remains confident with the existing night security measures which consist of one officer on foot· patrol and two roving security cars. In addition, the alarm system has an immediate relay to the Security and Safety control board which is manned Thomas J. Watson Jr., chairman emeritus of Inter- national Business Machines Corporation an(l former United States Ambassador to the Soviet Union, will deliver the com- mencement address at Union Sunday, June 10. Watson Will serve as honorary chancellor and will be awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree. Honorary Degrees The College also will award honorary degrees to William H. Fleming Jr., technical assistant in engineering; Edward Ben- jamin Koren, cartoonist and educator; Jaroslav .Jan Pelikan, historian; and May Sarton, novelist and poet. Union will award approximately 600 Bachelor's and 135 MaSter's degrees and one Doctoral degree in ceremonies marking the College's 190th com- mencement. The prQgram will begin at 10 a.m., June 10, on Schaffer 'Library Plaza (Achilles Rink in case of rain). Watson is a graduate of Brown University and began his career with mM in .1937. After serving in the Air Force during World War II, he returned to IBM and was named company president in 1952, chairman in. 1961 and chairman of the executive . committee in 1971. . He was ambassador to Russia from 1979 to 1981 and has served on a number of national task forces, including the President's Task Force on the War Against Poverty. A past senior fellow of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, a past -citizen regent of the Smithsonian Institution and a past president .of the National Council of the Boy Scouts of America, he has received the Presidential Medal o~ Freedom, this country's htghest civilian honor. . Fleming joined Union's staff\ m 1961. As administrator of the Machine Laboratory, he has been involved in many College Projects, such as the restoration o~ the Whipple Bridge, now a Cwil Engineering Historic Landmark. Born in Scotland, he is a graduate of Mount Pleasant High School in Schenectady and won a number of decorations as a taU .gunner and fligpt engineer on bombers d~rbng VVorld VVar II. . · His Sister, Sarah~ .is . an ad- miniStrative assistant iii the College's Business. Office and .his brotller, Alexander, is office manager in the Physical Plant; t.ogether they have given 92 years of service to Union. The College will award him an honorar,y Master of Pedagogy degree. Koren has enlivened the pages of The New Yorker for more than 20 years with his drawings of hairy, fuzzy people. A graduate of Columbia University, he received his M.~\'.A. from Pratt Institute. Frem 1969 to 1977, he was an associate professor of the arts at Brown University, receiving a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1979. He continues to teach at the university as ari adjunct professor. E:Jdlibited in M\ISeWUS Koren's work has been exhibited in museums here and abroad, inCluding the Swann Collection of Caricature and Cartoon; a11dappears regularly in such publications as Har- per's, Satltrday Review, and The Nation. His books include Don't Talk to Strange Bears, How to Eat Like a Child, and Do You Wmt to Talk About It? Union will award him an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree. Pelikan is an expert in medieval and Renaissance history and literature. and has written numerous studies of the Christian tradition, the early church fathers and the Christian intellectual. He is a graduate of Concordia Seminary and received his Ph.D. from. the University of . Chicago. He taught at Valparaiso University, Con· cordia Seminary and the University of Chicago before coming to Yale University where he is Sterling Professor of History. He also has been dean ofthe Graduate School at Yale. The Reformation has been one of his- particular academic interests; he has edited and translated the works of Martin Luther and · written · the screenplay for a movie about Luther. ·' · Tit~ . ·National Endowment for the HUmanities awarded him the 1983 Jefferson Award as the distinguished American scholar that year. This spring he was the Thomas Lamont. Visiting Professor at ·Union. The College will award him an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree. Sarton began a career in the theater Upon graduating from Continued on page 4: 'twenty.-fuur.s a. day, · Wood did not appear overly· concerned With the break-in, \With two thousand people, we're gonna have problems.\ He was, however, extremely concerned with the use of alcohol on campus and how it affects students' safety in the future. Recently, Physical Plant was forced to make extensive repairs in order to correct portions of the rear roof which • was somehow displaced. The cause of the damage was at- tributed to the slipping of the collar ties; the structures which support the rafters which in turn, hold up the roof. The resulting pressure broke off the upper portion of a brick wall on which the roof rests, causing the roof to drop approximately ten inches. Physical Plant was forced to utilize a jack to lift the roof while repairs on the brick wall were being made. It is unclear as to what caused the collar· ties to collapse. According to Director .of · Campus Operations Jack Hill, \one month ago, the roof was in good shape.\ Some believe that the earthquake which rocked the College some weeks ago was the cause. Director Hill cites age to be the probable cause of the damage. The President's House was designed by Edward T. P Cotter, grandson of Eliphalet Nott. Nott's third wife, Urania Sheldon Nott, was unhappy living in, the cramped Geological Hall and com- ~si.Qn~d :Potter to bqj.ld a new house of her-· own. Construction began in 1856, but it was held up by financial difficulties. The house was completed in 1861. President Nott lived in the house only five years, but Mrs. Nott lived there for over twenty. The President's House has continued to be the residence of Union College Presidents. The current residents, President and Mrs. John Morris, have lived there since 1979.

tage2 CONCORD/ ENSJ~: Ma.J' 24, 1984 Taken from the June 9, 1934 issue of:Concordiensi~ Exercis.es Held By VAN TRUMBULL One hundred and sixty\'five seniors will receive their diplomas at \the annual com.: rnencement exercises Monday morning at ten o'clock .in the Memorial Chapel. The .graduates of the Albany College of Pharmacy and Albany Medical College will a)so be awarded their diplomas and eight men will receive honprary degrees .. Leslie R. Long, William 1'. Winne., Paul Wassmansdorf, James Horvath Jr., Harold D. Merry, and. Charles S. Bridgman. Four seniors will then com- pete for. the Blatchford Oratorical Prize in the following· order: Leslie R. Long, ''I Am Innocent of This Blood;i'' Paul Wasstnansdorf, ''Mediocre Ideals and Progress;\ Henry 'f. Tulloch, ''The .Price of Economics,\ and Julius J. Sitney's Valedictory, \Tolerance.\ Judges for these speeches will be Robert F~ Coggeshall, Mills Ten Eyck and Lewis B. :Sebring, '92. Class of 1934 celebrates it's fifth r·eunion with a rather' 'unusual\ theme .. The Honorary Chancellor's address, .. Science as a Guide to Life,\ will 'be broadcast at 11:15 over WGY. Dr. Irving Langmuir, the Honorary Chancellor, distinguished. scientist and Nobel Prize winner in Chemistry, is being awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws. Prizes and awards will be announced by Dean Garis; Dean Mansfield and Dean Ordway will ma~e similar announcements for their respective schools. Class of '34 He Unionized Traditional Procession The 138th commencement will open with the · traditional academic :procession with Dr. Charles B. Fi:urd, Professor of Chemistry, as Grand Marshall. The order of the processiQn will be: Acting President Edward Ellery; Dr. Irving Langmuir, Honorary Chancellor; the recipients of honorary degrees; the trustees; Dean Charles F. F. Garis; De;m William Mansfield, of the Albany College of Pharmacy; Dean Thomas Ordway, of Albany Medical College; Major James H. Blackwell, ROTC officer; followed by the faculty, the Class of 1934, and the can- didates for . degrees from the . graduate schools. Dr. Edwin W. Rice, Jr.,. Chairman of the Board ·of Trustees, · will · present the candidates . for honorary degrees to Dr. Ellery, who will read the citations and.award the degrees. Hoods will be placed upon the reCipients by Dr .. John E. March and Professor F. L. Bronner. By GAYLE ROSENFELD News Editor On Sunday, June 10, Union's 190th commencement exercises will take t>lace. Another group of young men and women will leave the College to make way for the class of '88. But this year's ceremony marks riot only the graduation of the class of 1984; it commemorates the 50-year anniversary of com- mencement for the class of 1934. In 1934, 169 Union seniors (one of which was Professor C. William Huntlev of Union's psychology department) received their undergraduate · diplomas; eight honorary degrees were awarded. Also, 21 doctors from Albany Medical School and eight Albany School of Pharmacy pharmaceutical chemists were in attendance in Memorial Chapel to pick up their degrees. In a morning edition of the \Schenectady Gazette,\ dated June 12, 1934, a reporter noted that \Many of them (the new graduates), already assured of positions, will go out into the business and professional world and more will go on to graduate school, but still a great number of them are unable as yet to find work or funds whereby to continue their educations.\ Back in 1934, the graduates followed the College's faculty and trilstees through the Payne Memorial gate and then into Memorial Chapel: Dr. Irving Langmuir, associate director of the research laboratories of the General Electric Company, and honorary chancellor, lectured on \Science as a Guide it.t Life.\ Langmuir received the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws. Acting President Edward Ellery conferred Langmuir's and the remaining seven honorary degrees upon their. recipients. · One point of interest, since Union did not become a co- educational institution until 1970, there were obviously no female undergraduates in the class of 1934. However, Catherine Doris Burto did receive ·her degree from the Albany School of Pharmacy, the only woman given a degree at commencement that year. The graduation exercises themselves, held on June 11, included the 117 psalm, a prayer by Reverend John van Schaick, D.D., LL.D., class of 1894, acknowledgement of the honor men, four orations, an an- nouncement of awards ·and prizes, Chancellor Langmuir's address, granting of the ·eight honorary degrees and then of the students' degrees them- selves. The \Ode to Old Union\ by Fitzhugh Ludlow was then heard along with the benediction and closing ceremonies. The entire commencement program itself began on Thursday, June 7, 1934, with an ertemporaneous prize debate in Old Chapel and ended four days later on Monday, June 11 with the A:lbany Medical College Alwnni dinner at the Mohawk Golf Club. During these four days, a variety of activities took place to celebrate com- mencement; fraternity teas were held in several chapter Attention All U·pperclass Meal Card Ho.lders Old Chapel will not be opep on Thursday 1 May 31, 1984 for dinner 1 due to another college function. However, Hale will be open that • eve nang. On Monday, May· 28, 1984, Hale House will be closed for lunch. Old Chapel will be open. PleCtse use that entrance. Thank you for your cooperation. houses on Friday, June 8, a lacrosse game between alumni and students was played on Alexander .Field on Saturday, June 9, and an organ recital was given by Dr. , Elmer A. Tid- marsh, along with various area men's choruses on Sunday, June 10. On Saturday, June 9 the alumni held their annual parade; classes dating back to 1863 were in attendance. In 1934, Jhe class of 1884 was celebrating its 50 year reunion. This group was awarded the Cornelius Waldron Cup which is given to the class each year with the largest percentage of turnout at a reunion commencement. With 23 .living members, the class of 1884 was represented by 17 of this group at its 50 year reunion. Its class marshal was Dr. Harry ·C. Young. A schedule for this year's commencement and reunion weekend follows on Names of the eleven seniors who received stage ap- pointments for high scholastic standing will be read by Dr. Ellery. These men are: Julius J. Sitney, Henry W. Tulloch, Robert W. Gurry, Philip B. Langworthy, Lottis Reed TriPJ?, Dean Garis will present the members of the Class of 1934 to Dr. Ellery who will award the diplomas, assisted by Dr. Egbert K. Bacon. Dean Man- sfield will present the Phar- maceutical Chemists, Dean Ordway will pr.esent the can- didates for the degree of M. D~ Major Blackwell will award 'the commission of first lieutenant, ROTC, to the medical men. The exercises will close with the singing of the Alma Mater. Rev. John Van Schaik, D. D., of the class of '94, will give the invocation and benediction. Music for the processional and recessional will· be supplied by Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. page 3. Taken from June 9, 1934 issue of Concordiensis ''B. ·11 ,., L. . d p· .. d . . . 1 y ea s . ara ·· e William Barker (Uncle Billy) Landreth, of the Class of '81, for many years a resident of Schenectady and a familiar figure on the campus, led. the members of the non-reunion classes in the colorful alumni parade this morning. Grand Mar.shall for the annual procession was Dr. George A. Hoadley, '74, professor , emeritus of Physics at Swar- thmore, and father of Anthony DeH. Hoadley, Bursar- Engineer of the college. After marching around the college to the music of the massed college; and . alumni bands, the procession deployed on the Library field while the Class of 1934 passed in review before them. Following the flag- raising, the entire alumni bOdy and. the senior class joined to form a large U in the center of , the field and sang the Alma Mater. The Waldron. cup is awarded at the Alumni Luncheon to the class with ,the most original costumes, and the Anable cup to the delegation with the highest attendance. The varied and unusual costumes of the reunion classes added much color to the parade. The class of 1909 went Bohemian in lavender artist's smocks and flowing black ties. Natty garnet jackets trimmed with white, white trousers, and g1{rnet berets comprised the costumes for the class of 1914. The class of '24 was disguised as a band of Tyrolian suspen- ders, green shorts, and garnet. colored Tyrolian hats with feathers of different hues. As impressive as the younger alumni, but in a different -way, were the old grads back for their fortieth or fiftieth reunion. Altho.ugh their ranks had been thinned by time, they marched with firm steps, and were costumed modestly in smiles and arm bands. Marshalls of the reunion · classes were: 1879, Dr. Lee W. Beattie; 1884,. Dr. Henry C. Young; 1889, Michael D. Nolan; 1894; H. Earle Fun:nan; 1899, William J. Smith; 1904 ... William Cronkhite; 1909, Raymond Finch; 1914, J. Gordon Gidley; 1919, Roland V. I. Kathan; 1924, Jasper Levine; 1929, James Glenn~ Jr.; and 1931, Edward B. Wintersteen. From all corners of the earth Union alumni have come back to the campus to reunite with their classmates. The record for distance. goes to Lester M. Carson, '24, who is enroute from Shanghai, China, by way of Siberia. Aaron Feinstein, '29, has come from Dublin, Ireland to attend his fifth reunion. Rev. Edward C. Hoyt, '79, is up from Tampa, Florida for the fifth- fifth anniversary of his . graduation. CAMP STARLIGHT Is looking for upperclassmen interested in working as counselors at a leading private co-ed camp with 400 boys and girls on a 385-acre . ' . campus 150 miles NW of NYC. Looking specificaJiy for counselors with interest/experience/skill in land sports, tennis, canoeing, nature, and photography. Season runs from June 23rd to August Z2. Contact: Hy Schmierer; Director 516-599-5239 Or on-campus Rep: Eric Hornick 370-8626 or Campus Box #981 PE ByL1 The f< College Conferen4 onMaylC Pat Matt• represen Center at also inch Colgate, I St. La' Trinity, Accordin~ conferenc opportuni colleagu• orientatio and shar' The COl into di: sessions. ( was on- sessions; panies co terview s tive emp much mu the couns sessions t1 function o result, V sidered e: altogethe agreed tb offices bt with seni' terviews. _other stu4 clition, oth1 near futur developin€ fewer schl The sch formation companies these sess ducted by purpose is give studm his-her er FRIDAY; 8:00a.m. 9:00a.m.- 1:30p.m. 2:00 & 3:00 2:45p.m. 3:30p.m. . 4:00p.m. Ev<!ning 6:00p.m.- 9:00p.m.- SATURD 8:15a.m·. 9:00a.m.-! 10:00 a.m .. 10:00 a.m. ll:ooa.m. Noon !2:30p.m. 12:30 & 1:00 . 12:30- 3:30 1:30 p.m. 4:00p.m. 5:00p.m. Evening 6:00 & 8:00 p. 7:00p.m. 9:00p.m.- 1 SUNDAY, 8:00- 11:00 a:oo - 'to:oo !O:OOa.m.

CONCORDJENSJS, Mav 24, :/984 Page3 Peer Programs Initiated - .. By LINDA RAFFAELE Staff said, \These sessions are a good step in getting the employer to know Iriore about the College with the .possibility that thE:Y might recruit in the future.\ The fourth annual Small College Ca-reer Counselors Conference was held at Union on May 10.11. Joanne Tobiessen, Pat Matteo, and Pam Hartman represented Union's Career Center at the conference which also included Bowdoin, . Colby, Colgate, Hamilton, Middlebury, St. Lawrence, Skidmore, Trinity, and Wesleyan. According to Tobiesseo.. the conference is \an excellent opportunity to get together with colleagues with a similar orientation to exchange ideas and share accomplishments.\ Also shared at the conference was information on what graduates are doing. A representative from Hamilton reported that of the average graduating class at graduation, onC\-third have a job, o.ne third- go on to graduate School, and one-third do not know their plans for the fall. lt was men- tioned that it usually takes longer for liberal arts students to find the right position, hut, in the long run, they are better prepared for advancement in the career they .. choose. Tobiessen commented that \Employers appreciate the breadth. of knowledge that liberal arts colleges offer.\ The conference was divided into differe.nt discussion sessions. One topic of discussion was on-campus recruiting sessions; this is when com- panies come to campus to in- terview students for prospec- tive employment. There._ was much mutual concern among the counselors that recruiting sessions tend to stereotype· the function of their offices. As a result, Wesleyan had con- sidered eliminating recruiting altogether. The counselors agreed that in February the offices become overcrowded with seniors in line for in- terviews. This crowd drives · The counselors also agreed that both alumni and parents were helpful in finding em- ployment for students. Next year, Union is planning to have parents in different careers volunteer to sit on panels to discuss their professions. The career centers are also trying to build credibility wit-h the fac1J}ty. Union hopes to ac- complish ·this through the departmental representatives and a divisional colilil1ittee in order to keep faculty informed about activities in the program and develop mutual projects to assist students. . other students, away. In ad- dition, others believe that in the near future, companies will be developing stronger ties with fewer schools. Peer advising programs were considered valuable by the schools. Union, Wesleyan, and Hamilton have recently initiated peer programs, and they seem to be working well. Union's version of the peer advising program is called the Career Assistant Program. This The schools agreed that in- formation sessions given by companies are very helpful. these sessions are often con- ducted by an alumnus(i). The purpose is for the alumnus(i) to give students information about his-her employer. Tobiessen Commencement and Reunion Weekend Schedule June 8-10, 1984 . FRIDAY, JUNE 8 8:00 a,m. Alumni GoiC 1bumement. The Edison Club. 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Registration. Lamont House. 1:30 p,m. Minerva's Race. A.,semble near Garis Field, west of Memorial 2:00 & 3:00 p.m. 2:45p.m. 3:30p,m. 4:00p.m. Evening 6:00 p.m. - Midnight 9:00 p.m. - 1:00 a.m. Fieldhouse. A 1-mile \!'d 3-mile race over the cross-country course. For all alumni, faculty, guests, and seniors. · Campus 'Ihur. Leaves from Lamont Hquse. \Highlights from the 1983 Dutchman Football Season.\ Social Sciences Building, Room 016. \A Union of People.\ Social Sciences Building, Room 016. Union's award·winning film that captures the essence of academic and social life on campus a.s seen through the eyes of students and faculty. \Hlghllghtl'from the 1983 Dutchman Football Season.'' Social Sclencu Building,. Room 016. Class ReUnion ·Dinners. Junior ReUnion for children ages 6-16. Memorial Fieldhouse. Alumni Gala-Fest. Girling Center. SATURDAY, JUNE 9 8:15a.m·. 9:00 a,m, - Noon !O:OOa.m. !O:OOa.m. ll:ooa.m. Noon !2:30p.m, 12:30 &: 1:00 p.m, 12:30 - 3:30 p.in. 1:30 p.m. 4:00p.m, 5:00p.m, Evening 6:00 &: 8:00 p.m. 7:00p.m. 9:00 p.m, - 1:00 a.m. llitiite Mfalrs Breakfast/Seminar. Hale. House Dining Room. Registration. Lamont· House, Phi Beta Kappa Meeting. Schaffer Library. ReUnion ClaM Photographs. Alexander field. Alumni Parade. Forms on AleXIUlder Lane, moves to Noll Street, onto· Lenox Road and Union Avenue, in the 1884 Gate, down South Lane to Memorial Chapel {where it will be reviewed), b seating in. Library Plaza for tbe Convocation. Ale:tander Turner, Class ol1934, will actllll grand marshal of the parade.. • Alumni ConvoCation. Schaffer Library Plaza. Welcoming of ·the Class of !984 into the Society of Alumni. Presenta~on of Alumni Gold Medals and Meritorious Service Award. Address and presentation of parade trophies by President John S. Morris. Chimes Con~ert. Memorial Chapel, Peter K. Smith '70. \A Union of People.\ Social &iences Building. Room 016 .. Alumni Picnic. Girling Center. Seniors and parents are invited. - Adults - S6; Under 12 - $3. \Highlights from the 1983 Dutchman Football Season.\ · Social Sciences Building. Room 016. President's Reception. Hille House Court~ For all seniors, alumni, and their families and guests, and (acuity. (Rain location - Hale House.) ''Highlights from the 1983 Dutchmm Football Season.\ Social Sciences Building, Room 016. Class ReUnion Dinners. SteiUlllhlp Round Buffet. West College Dining Room. All you can eat Steamship Round of Beef, Seafood Newburg, variety of vegetables, saiads, desserts, beverages. Adults- 'SlO;. Children 6-12- $5; Under 6 - Free. Cash bar available. Early reservations suggested by ~ling the Ahunni Office 111 .(5181 370-6168. 'Thrrace Coun~U Dinner. Saturday NISht teiC!bratlon. Achilles Rink. Jlntertainment and dancing to the Big Band Sound of AI· Cavalieri arid His Orchestra. Seniors and their .parents will be gu~sts of the Alumni Office. Obtain tickets In advance at the Alumni Office, Lamont House. SUNDAY, JUNE 10 8:00 - 11:00 &,m, Bon Voyage Breakfast Buffet. West College Dining Room. All you can eat: e!igs, .french toast, bagels, sausage, danish; juice, etc. Adults- $6; Under 12-$3. 8:00 - ·10:00 a.m. . Coffee, doug!tnuts and soda available outside Carnegi~ Hall. 10:00 a.m. Commencement Exercises. Schaffer Library Plaza {Rain location - Achilles Rink, tickets required ). ·Honorary Chancellor: TbomasJ. Wwlon,Jr., fotmer U.S. Ambuudor to the Soviet Union. Immediately following the Commencement Exercisell; membera of the·Class of 1984 Wi!!__be awarded their diplomis aHbe following.reccption areas: Division I Majors: Hale Hou$C Lounge and Garden biviston II Majors: East .End· Field House Division III Majors: Alumni GymnasiWll DiviSion IV Majors: Science&: Engineering Court . Graduate Degree~: ~ above l<lcations Parents and Olher guests are cordially invited to meet with ,faculty members at the diploma presentation. Light· tefreshn:ent Will be available. . . . . program is designed for 4-5 students to work together with the different academic departments to conduct workshops mainly for freshmen and sophomores, to introduce them to the career planning program, and to advise them about summer job hunting, etc. In conclusion, the. counselors found that they are generally all on the same track. The meeting was beneficial to all in as far as new ideas were generated and accomplishments were shared. Next year's. conference is being planned using the ideas established by this year's program. -·.- '~ ~- , .. · ···w*- it \'' .. /e4_A; • ...._A .f )/J Director of the Career Development Center, Joanne Tobiessen attended a career s,ymposium on May 10-11, 1984. Many plans propostdfor forum . .. Benson States Goals By JAN BARAN News Editor On May 11, 1984, junior Steve Benson was elected as president of the Student Forum. He comes to the post with three years of experience, including two years service as a class represen- tative and his past year's service as Independent,Student Coalition Representative. At Union, he majors in political science-mathematics. Two Primary Objectives During his campaign for president, Benson stressed the two primary objectives that he wanted to achieve if he were elected. First of all, he em- phasized the proposal of a grievance committee. This committee would act as a liaison between students and the Administration and thus would bring more com- munication between the two groups. A possible set-up for the grievance committee would be to have Student Forwn mem- bers available several hours a week in a publicized location . He also Indicated the im- portance of having the forum members \go to every single · floor in the first few weeks of the fall term'' to familiarize students, especially the in- coming freshmen, with the activities of the forum and campus activities in general. Benson's second objective is to instill more spirit on the Union campus. A possible suggestion proposed by Benson in his campaign is the all- campus rally. Ideally, this rally would be held at the very beginning of the school year to get as many students as possible involved. Other possible changes and improvements for the forum have also been suggested by Benson. For example, \The forum next year will need to communicate with the Administration about some basic factors that go into the College Center and the Skeller.\ Surveys of student opinions could be conducted by the forum to ensure that the students' interests are met. As Benson pointed out, the main concern here is that the \students' interests are taken care of\ in the new plans. Top·of ·Gates·Stolen By SARAH CALDERINI Staff The top of the Kappa Alpha gates at the entrance to Jackson's Garden has been stolen. Director of Security Cliff Wood believes that there is no cause for alarm \because things like this happen all the time. Of course, it's an in- convenience, but the top to the gates will probably be retur- ned.\ Wood believes that the theft is just a prank as many other thefts in the past have been. Many objects around the carripus have been taken before, \usually because they look good hanging on a wall or merely for the fun of it,\ according to Wood. However, ~!though Wood says that the vandalism this year has not been as bad as usual, the theft of the top. of the ,gates shows outright disrespect for College property. Jan Ludwig, chairman of the philosophy department, is also chair of the Conservatorial Com- mittee. The committee consists of Assistant Director of Schaffer Library Ruth Anne Evans, Chairman of the Arts Department Daniel Robbins, Professor of Mathematics William Stone, Executive Associate to the President Jack Maranville and junior Gayle Rosenfeld. \The committee would like to heighten peoples' awareness of Union's history and tradition,\ .says Ludwig. \We want people to appreciate things around Union.\ The committee was started in the fall of 1982 by a request of Union's President John Morris. Its purpose is mainly to preserve any moveable object which is artistically or in- trinsically important to the College. Eventually, the committee would like to start a musewn \to prevent objects from just being 'thrown into a corner' and lost for 30 years,\ says Ludwig. Displays would be both en- joyable and educational to see. As for ttte theft of the top- of the gates, Ludwig ''hopes it will turn up somewhere.\ The committee, speaking for the College community as a whole, would like to see more respect for objects of historical im- portance and beauty. CLASS ReUNION DINNERS · Friday, June 8 Saturday, June 9 Clas' 1921 1922 1924 1926 1929 1934 1937 1939 1941 1944 1949 1954 1959 1964 1969 1974 1927 1929 1979 1983 1974 Location ' Time The Mohawk Club 6:00 p.m. Holiday Inn 6:00 p.m. The Mohawk Club 6:00 p.m. The Mohawk Club 6:30 p.m. Ramada Inn (Reception) 7:00p.m. Mohawk Golf Club 6:00 p.m. Mohawk Golf Club 6:00 p.m. The Mohawk Club 6:30 p.m. Dutch Hollow Pub 6:00 p.m. Mohawk Golf Club 6:00 p.rn. Americana Inn 6:30 p.m. Mohawk Golf Club 7:00 p.m. Van Dyck Restaurant 6:00 p.m. Thrf Thvern ·6:30 p.m. Century House 6:30 p.m. .~errino's 7:00 p.m. Albany Country Club 6:00p.m. Mohawk Golf Club 6:00 p.m. Dutch Hallow Pub 6:00 p.m. Hale House (ReceptionJCourtyard 5:30 p.m. (Rain location-Lower Lounge) Reception in Arts Bldg. Lobby 8 • 00 p.m •

Page4 CONCORDIENSJS, Muy 24, /'984 ·New RegiStrar Selected By JUDIE STEINHARDT Staff In the April 5 issue of the Concordlensls, an article featured Calvin Schmidt, Union's Registrar, who is retiring at the end of this year. Schmidt will be greatly missed, but students need not worry about the organization .of their schedules and grades because Schmidt's rep(acement, Dwight Wolf, is also an experienced and qualified man. Wolf, who is currently Assistant to the Vice President, is looking forward to Dwi.ght Wolf will replace Calvin Schmidt, who retired, as Uni.on's the move because it will give registrar. 'Plans for West Ma-de By DAVE MARIN Staff In response to the questions over the conditions of West College's bathrooms, Director of Residence Life Dave Wood sent out a questionnaire to residents of that dormitory asking what they believed was more important: Enhancement of the bathrooms or replacement ot · the old fur- niture. With 106 of the 168 residents responding (or 63 percent), there was an over- whebningmajority (89 percent) which believed that the bathrooms should be the first priority. Nine percent indicated they would rather see new furniture and two percent of the respondents were un- committed. Wood will be reviewing the bathrooms with Director of Campus Operations Jack Hill tonorrow to See what needs to be done. At present, Wood has rlesignated the sinks as first priority. He will have the sinks modernized so that both hot and cold water run out of the same faucet. He will probably have the basins replaced, too. Wood also wants to paint or replace all of the present stalls. He plans to have all window hard~ ware upgraded or replaced; entire window systems will be changed if necessary. The next objective on his list is to replace the missing shower curtains. Wood also hopes to \spruce-up\ all the tiling in the bathrooms and possibly replace the black I tiling on the floors with ceramic tiling. As for the showers; Wood said that he would be looking into improving thembut a large part of the problem is that city water clogs the heads of the showers. As a solution to this, he is recommending preventive maintenance. Between $12,000 and $24,000 will be allotted from next year's Residence Live Budget to finance the repairs; this money will be taken from the money originally' set a§ide for the new furniture. Wood is hoping that much of the bathroom upgrading costs will be covered by the Physical Plant's budget. The repairs will probably be completed by the end of this swmner. Conduct Cases 1983-84 A. Cases Total Cases Heard Guilty Judgments Summary as of 5/21/84 Not Guilty Judgments cases Dropped or Settled w/o Hearing . 'stud. 27 20 3 4 Org. 7 7 0 0 .B. Charges Filed (Note·- Total number of charges will exceed number of cases because of multiple charges per case) Group !-Behavior threatening others Group 11-Verbal abuse, intimidation Group IV-Abusive or offensive behavior Group V- Theft Group VI-Vandalism Group VII-Entering College Facilities wlo Authorization Group IX-Failure to comply with College requests Group X-Furnishing false information Group X 1-Vi.olations of College or Forum Policies · Group X 11-Bellavior stemming from excessive use of alcohol Group X Ill-Possession or Use of Firearms or Fireworks c. Action Taken Dismissal from College on-Campus residence privileges removed Social probation Reprimand and/or warning work De.taits Formal letters of apology Alcohol counseling recommended Fines 10 2 0 0 8 6 4 1 4 4 3 1 1 10 20 5 6 2 9 Fifth Union College Conference on Category Theory and Set Theory Time: Saturday and Sunday, May 25-27 Principal Speakers: • F. William Lawvere: On Space and Quantity as a Base for Logic • Saunders Maclane: New Views on the Philosophy of Mathematics • Donald A. Martin: Proofs of Determinacy: Old and New Results 3 0 3 1 2 2 1 0 0 3 0 A fee of $12 with a registration slip can be obtained for this conference .from the mathematics department office .. This fee includes the cost of a wine and cheese reception (Friday night at 8:00p.m. in the Milano Lounge of Hale House on campus), a cocktail hour, buffet dinner and party Sunday evening (again in Hale House), and lunch on Sunday. For further information contact Ms. Bing in the math department office. PROGRAM Saturday 10:00--Coffee and registration 10:30·-Lecture by SaundersMacLane 11 :JO··Shorter Talks 1 :30··Lunch 3:00·-Lecture by Donald A. Martin 4:00·-Shorter Talks Sunday 9: OO··Coffee 9:30··Lecture by F. William Lawvere 10:30--Shorter Talks 1 :00-·Lunch 2:00-·Shorter Talks 5:00-·Conference Ends himtlle \opportunity to work a lot closer with faculty and studelits.\ Wolf was selected to be registrar by a- small search committee formed ·by Vice President of Academic Atrairs Thomas D'Aadrea. The com- mittee cgnsisted of five members: Professor Joseph Boar-d, chairman of the faculty executive committee; Dean WiHiam Daniels.; Dean Joseph Mamrnola; Miss Mary Wemple, Registrar's Office; and Mrs. St. George, registrar, Wells House. The committee an- nouncEd the •opening c>n campus first, and decided that i.f neces~ary, it would search outsidE the College community for a new R~gis~rar. The 'com-. rriittee's search never made it that far. A number of campus emplo:yees applied for the job,· and D-wight Wolf was . selected. D'Andrea says, concerning the declsicm to select Wolf, \We are rea:Ily fortunate to have someo11e like that who can step into thE job,\ Wolf is not only an ~ al umt1 tiS of Union, he also· has been \Working here for many years and is very familiar with fJle College. D'Andrea says that in Wol:f~s jobs as his assist'ant, and as the directQr of in- stitutional studies, Wolf worked very closely with Schmidt, which is a further advantage. D'Andrea continues his praise of his current employee, \We'll miss him in this office, but he won't be that far away.\ Wolf believes the fact that he is an alumnus of Union will prove invaluable in his new position. He graduated in 1968 and was here for many of the changes that have taken place since then. He was at Union when it changed from a semester to a trimester system. He also was present when the distribution requirements were changed from a fairly rigid, specified system, to comprehensive education, in which requirements were more generalized. Later, he wit- nessed invocation of tile current liberal learning program. Wolf is quite familiar with the background of many of the current systems utilized-by the Administration·. He says this will l>e an \advantage in moving over to the registrar's position,\ because he knows what went on in the past. Wolf says that in his new role as registrar, ''the position is not going tCJ change in terms of what it does.' • He is going to continue Schmidt's tasks of class schedulingt registering grades, maintaining tran- scripts, etc. As r·egistrar, he must work with .the faculty to organize a rel.lsonable schedUle. He says, \You can't offer Chem 10 and Math 10 at the same time, for instance.\ After preregistration, he must allow professors to make changes-to limit the number of students in a class or· open up another section, ''so faculty does not feel overextended.\ He has the essential job of making sure there is \enough of the right cd'urses at the right time for the students.\ But, Wolf comments that these are the basic, required tasks of any registrar's office. One possible reform, however, may be closer in- teraction 'between the Vice President and. ·Registrar's Office .. Wolf says, \a lot .of the data that's used over there (Registrar's Office) is used here (Vice President's Office).\ The .plan has not been worked out yet; so it may be quite a while before it is. put int,o use. Wolf has to face an inevitable change right away when he begins his new job. He says, \An· inunediate challenge is that we're going to have to change olir computer system.\ The Registrar's Office currently operates on the Burroughs, which is going to be disposed of at the end of this year, so the office must switch all of its data to the Hewlitt Packard computer system. Wolf says that it will be difficult to work on the one, while switching to the other. He says, \It will be very hectic in the summer -and fall because we are going to have to do two jobs.\ If anybody can face the challenge of a new job and the formation of a new computer system, it is Dwight Wolf. In addition to his endless amount of applicable work experience, Wolf has had an impeccable education. He graduated from Union with a bachelor's degree in History (in 1968, as stated before), obtained his master's in East Asian History from the University of Virginia, where he also got his Doctorate in higher education administration. The student body can rest a11sured that the Registrar's Office will continue to run smoothly under the auspices of Dwight Wolf. Degrees Awarded Contin.ued from page 1 The Higll and Latin School in Cambridl(e, Mass. Writing soon claimed 'ller attention. Her first publishedwork appeared in 1937 and she has since written more than 30 novels and volumes of poetry. Sh.e has received the Golden Rose of the New England Poetry Society, a Guggenheim Fellowship in Poetry and a National Foun- dation of the Arts and Humanities grant. Sarton also has been a Phi Beta . Kappa Visiting Scholar and a Danforth Visiting Lec- turer at a number of colleges. She is a fellow of the American Academy .of Arts and Sciences and a member of the New England Poetry Society and the Poetry Society of America. .Union will award her a Doctor of Humane Letters degree. The 1984 Yearbook Will arrive during Se.nlor Week! You rnay still order one for $25 in the Student Ac~ tivities Office. Quantities are limited··once they are sold out no more can 'be ordered. ........... F ,p Gar cha: the pre~ tele· V.H w thot: syst that stud SalE stud ma;> is st it·.H Con4 idea part Holl Sen How tivit som' com app1 Tl: Socii mad Sale: equi foot Nov. mon V.H. rece all..:t Holle half Cone fort At has vide form appr that appr equiJ toge· the Sale I vide' Weel syste samE $200 Pare and syste was Pub'l chasE help Conu confi1 mone mitte Form our c terirn syste: ThE prove video jectio contr. chase Howe Sal en an at to w. jectio becor signe' Pub, ConcE Food tivitie Stude Pre Forur that t

CONCORDIENSfS. Mo.v 24, 1984 PageS Pub InveSts In Video By JULIEABELMAN · EdJtor·ln-Chlef Dutch Hollow Pub Manager Gary Salerno recently .pur• chased a videCJ system .for use in the Pub. 'l'his system is presently being used to show television Sl1ows and rented V.H.S. mov1es to Pub patrons. When Salerno originally thought of .buying a v:ideo system for the PUb, he believed that it wC>uld be beneficial if students paid for part of it. . Salerno stated that if. the studen~s own the system they may be mbre interested in what is shown and take better care of it·. He approaehedtheSocial and Concert Conunittees with this idea and they agreed to .pay for part of it, while the. Dutch Hollow-Uniom. College Food Service would pay the rest. However, before student ac- tivities money can be used for something such as this, the committees .must· get Forum approval first. The chaiimen .of both the Social and Collcert Committees made a verbal agreement with Salerno that the cost of the equipment,. wllich includes a 10. foot ceiling rno unt screen, a Novabeam ceiling mount monitor (projector), and a V.H.S. video .player and receiver> wo1lld be covered by all -three sou.xce_s. The Dutch Hollow would' pay for about one- half of the cost and Social and Concert Committees wQUld pay for the other llalf. At the present time, the Pub has paid tbe full cost of the video system because the forum still has ! not given its approval. Salerno explained that he did not wait for Forwn approval befCJre buying the equipment, because· he was able to get \!a special price for making the purchase when he did. Salerno had to rent a different video system for Parents' · Weekend. By purchasing the system we ll()W have at the same time, he was abe to save $200 on ·the rental ..lor the Parents' Weeltend Conunittee and $400 on the permanent system now fn the Pub. Salerno was forced b overextend the Pub's budget in order to pur- chase the systtm without. the help of the SO<:ial and Concert Committees. However, he is confident that :he will get the money back from these com- mittees. 1 'We (the Pub and Forum) will be able to iron out our differences and in the in- terhn the students can enjoy the system,\ stated Salerno. The Forum has not yet ap- proved of fuading the Pub's video system because of ob- jections it had with the original contract for the use and pur- chase of the video system. However, on Monday night Salerno revised the contract in an attempt to alter the ~lause to which the forum had ob- jections. Before tb.e contract becomes effective, it must be signed by the Dutch Hollow Pub, the Social Comil1ittee, the Concert CoiOiilittee, Director of Food Service, Student Ac- tivities Coordinator, and the Student Forum President. President -()f the Student Forum Win Tltlll'low explained that the ForlliEl would not ap- prove of or sign the original contract until one of the clauses . was either altered ·or removed. 'fhe cont.-oversy was over a clause which stated that ''The Dutch Hollow management and Union College Food Service :will have final .deciding power with regard to controversial material to be viewed.'' ThUrlow stated that \Tiley (the Dutch Hollow and Food Ser- vice} have to he prepared to let students have a .say if they (the students) are paying for it.\ Salerno explained that he did n()t write this clause so that he (the Dutch Hollow) would have total control .of· what-television shows and movies would be shown. He wants to use the video· system to show wbat the students want. ''I want the committee to tell me what they wanttosee,\ ScUemostated. \It is for the students. I just make sure it is in go()d working order. This .place (the Pu.b) is here to serve the students and that is what we are trying to do.'' Thurlow stated that the Forum believes that if the students are paying for half of the video system, then the Food Service shoUld not have the final say in what will or will not be viewed. Salerno explained that while he wants to show what the students want; he thought the clause in the original contract was necessary \to protect our viewing people from offensive material.'' He went on to .say that the Pub is a public place and used by par.ents, children and facUlty as well .as students. For this reason every movie that students wish to see may not be suitable for the Pub environment. \I don't care what they (the students) want to show,\ Salerno com- mented, \as loBg as they have a good time and show common courtesy,. to all of tbe Pub's patrons~ Whether the Forum will approve of funding tbe video system and sign the contract is still pending~ The clause that the Forum objected to, which gave the Food Service final say on what material can be viewed, has been deleted frQm the new contract. However, a different clause was altered to avoid the showing of con- troversial material during a catered event (when people other than students are present). This revised clause states that~ ''Viewing hours for equipment will go along with normal business hours of the Dutch Hollow and not interfere with College catered events.\ Another clause in the contract states that \pl'ogramming will be determined by a seven person committee.'' This committee will decide which movies and television sbows the College co:minunity would most like to see. The committee will consist of two members from the Dutch Hollow, tbree Social Committee members, one ·Concert Committee member, and olie coordinator of student activities. According to the contract, both the Dutch Hollow . and Student Activities will be responsible for the maintenance and repair of the video equip. ment. This will be accomplished Class of '86 Rep. RUnoff Results Win-ner: oa.ve .Marin 72 votes • 56.7% 127 sophomores vot~d >, with a '$500 colltributioil from each. However, 1he expense of renting video cassettes will be the sole respon~ibility of the Pub. Ill addition to these Clauses, the contract includes an option for any ofthe parties owning the equipment to buy out the others in. the event of disagreements, with the consent of the panel, and student forum. The student forum will meet one more time this academic year. At this meeting they will vote on the contract for the Pub video system, and the future of this ~ystem will i)e determined. Manager of the Dutch Hollow Pub, Gary Salerno, discusses the Pub's v.ideo system. ,EI. Salvador Debated By JAN llARAN Associate News Editor James Harnay, a writer and political activist who has traveled extensively ,in Central America, discussed \Living with Guerrillas in El Salvador\ in a lecture an:d slide show· pr.esentation at Union on Monday, May 21. His talk was sponsored by t:be sociology department, thE Black and Latin Alliance of Students, and the Campus Ministry. Harnay first described the economic situation in El Salvador. His slides depicted an impoverished \barrio\ where many of the peasants live. H.arnay noted that 90 perent of the 10;000 people who live in this ''barrio\ are unemployed. Most eam less than $60 per year. These poor arems and their sentiments were ignored by the .press in its coverage of the elections earlier this year, according to this journalist. A \prodigious mmount of econ()mic aid\ comes into this country, mostly for military purposes. Harnay conunented on the United States' role in managing the Salvadoran economy: \The United States is keeping a country afloat that is · near bankruptcy;\' The recent elections in El Salvador were also included in Harnay's talk. Harnay's main point was that the \democratic\ elections which put Napoleon Duarte into power recentlyare deceptive. Because the president-elect \is not able to control the security forces,\ Hamay is afraid that not much will change in El Salvador despite the elections. To support this view, Harnay indicated that \politics\ was rarely talked about openly before the elec- tion. People only talked about the \situation.\ He further noted that participation in the elections was mandated and that people who did not vote as designated by the lack of a mark on their identity card were subject to harassment and arrest .. Harnay's view on democracy in El Salvador was fully stated when he said, \The democratic process has never worked in El Salvador.\ The main part of the lecture and slide show, however, stressedthe war, its impact, its participants, and the role of the Unitecl States. Harnay was at first optimistic. He noted that, \The discrepancy in the statistics (of casualties) shows that the Salvadoran army is afraid now.\ The influence of the FMLN, a major liberation group within El Salvador which Harnay supports, is also much more significant, according to Harnay. The FMLN is a group of guerrillas, the majority of whom are peasants, who are fighting to change the situation. As Harnay noted, \The real reason why people are fighting in El Salvador is because they can't be pushed any further down into the planet.\ The role of the United States in El Salvador's war was deplored- by Harnay. He believes that the guerrillas who represent the majority of the people would have won if it had not been for the United States' intervention. The war will continue because both sides in one way or another are using weapons supplied by the United States. ·The election of Duarte as president will not help matters, according to Harnay. As he noted, \Having Duarte as president will only facilitate a military solution to the war which means the extermination of millions of innocent people.\ A military solution will result because \it is the military that is running· the country. The President-elect of El Salvador (Duarte). is just a figurehead.'' Despite these grim predic- tions of extermination, Harnay ended his lecture on an op- timistic note indicating that during his visit to El Salvador \people were still able to dance, sing, and celebrate\ despite the hard life and on-going threats to their lives. Search Committee Formed EyLORIOLVWENSTEIN Staff When a position of im- portance opens up on campus, often tiin.es a searcll committee . will be formed in order to try to find the best possible person for the job. Such a search com- mittee has recently been for- med to make recommendations for the new director of Schaffer Library. This committee is comprised of three members of the library staff, Ruth Anne Evans, Inga Dambergs and Bruce Connolly, ~long With Professor Janet Anderson from the chemistry department and Professor Shelton Schmidt of the economics department. The chairmanship of the committee is a rotating one. woking for UIJrarian The first step in th;e search for the new librarian vras art ad- vertisement placed nationally, announcing the poSition. From here,the selection Will involve a reading of aU the resumes and letters of recommendation by each and every mernber of the committee. · Three to four .of these applicants will then be brought to the campus this fall for interviews. The committee wil then, on the b~sis of the interview and ~valuations based on this inteview, make a recommendation to the · Vice President for Academic Affairs Thoinas D'Andrea who does the final selection. The entire . process is hoped to be com- pleted by October of this. year although this is not a definite date. Despite the fact that there are no students. on the corruni.ttee, there is still much room and need for student participation in this selection. Ruth Anne Evans, one of the aforeme.ntioned committee members, urges the students to get involved in the process. Anyone who has a suggestion of a qualified person is enco11raged to hand in .their name to any one of the com- mittee emembers. Then, in the fall, tlle students will be welcomed to talk to the can- . didates-and evaluate them, and thus put in their opinions, which Evans ass11res will be seriously considered. \Students will be invited and are encouraged to attend all meetings. It's very interesting to watch this process,\ said Evans. Qualifications for this position include professional experience at the staff level, familiarity with current trends and ap- plications of automated library systems. and the ability to work effectively with all segments of the college community, among others. Students who believe they know of someone who is both qualified and would be interested in the position are once again asked to submit these names to the committee members. The search is being conducted because the ''previous director will not be returning,\ ac~ cording to Evans. Currently, Ann Seeman is acting as director, but woUld have to go through the application process with all the other candidates if she is interested in officially obtaining th~ position. Evans says that she \hopes (Seeman) will be applying.\ The advertisement about the position is being placed in the Chronicle of Higher Education and other appropriate library periodicals, \so that people will know that we are serious,\ says Evans. She stresses student participation as an integral part of the selection, believing that if the students cannot get along with a particular can- didate, then that candidate, however well qualified, will not be able to handle the position pr.operly. The final applicants will be on campus in the fall, and at that time the students will be able to attend the meetings and help in the selection precess. >- .:.!. rn c: E Ill ~ >. .... .... 10 .J >. .0 .e 0 .c: a.

u Q >- ..c 0 - 0 E. Page6 CONCORD/IlNSIS,May 14, /984 Video System· Questioned . .• I Forum Discusses Issues By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor On Friday, May 18, at 3:30 p.m., Jonathan Bennet, .professor of philosophy at Syracuse UniversiJy, spoke on \Spinoza Error and Ignorance\ in HU213. His presentation concluded the Philosphy Department's Spring Colloquia. \The showing of movies by Food Service in the P_ub is illegal. They are !doing something that is against the law, and should be stopped!\ stated Senior Representative Matt Nankin at the last Student Forum meeting in relation to Food Service's showing of movies on the Pub video system. This issue was just one of numerous issues discussed by the forum at the May 22 meeting. As is the standard procedure, committee .reports . were presented first, with the Student Union's Ranking Affairs Council (SAC) presenting its report . Sophomore Representative Chris Siler reported that the SAC is investigating \Winter Term Crisis\ and possible ways to relieve the monotony of the winter term. Sam White's proposal for a four-day weekend was also discussed. It was endorsed by the SAC. However, further action is curtailed until the fall of 1984, when an attempt at raising student support for the measure will be made. By LINDA RAFFAELE Staff The 1984-85 Comparative Tution and Room and Board Study, prepared by the Office of Institution Studies at Union, was released last April. The study compares the cost for tuition and room and board at 46 institutions comparable to . Union. For the second year in a row, the study found that Union's total cost is below the mean and the median cost of 46 comparable colleges surveyed. The tuition at Union for 1984- 85 will be $8710, an increase of $660 (8.2 percent). Average room and board will be $3070, up $230 (8.1 percent) from this year. Student activity fees will be raised fr.mt $114 to $126. Overall, the direct costs will increase $902. The study found that the cost of a Union education makes the school \a tune 'bargain' among those institutions offering an undergraduate education of the highest caliber.\ It was found that for the colleges in the study the average increase in tuition for 1984-85 will \be $711 ( 8.8 percent) whereas Union's tuition Will only increase by $660 ( 8.2 percent). The average increase last year was $750 (10.3 · percent) compared to $820 (11.3 percent for the mean of the other colleges surveyed. The room and board situation is \equally as positive.\ While Union's room and board charges will be increasing by an average of $230, which is $6 more than the average increase of the other schools in the study, Union is still well below the group mean in this area. In ranking the schools studied from most expensive to least, Union is in the 32 position in the comparative rankings. The study fouhd that ''while we were $335 below the group mean and $471 below the median this year, we will be $343 and $514 below the comparable figures next year.\ According to the survey, ''As in past years, students at Union find themselves in a rather enviable position when the comparative figures are examined.\ Lastly, the Couns.eling Center's poot on-campus image was discussed. Possible measures of improving awareness .of. the center's existence. were also mentioned- - i.e. better advertising. Due to the absence of Jamie Danziger, the Academic Affairs Council Representative, the next report given was from the Chairman .of the Committee on Committees (CoC) Jared Squires. The CoC has presently been interviewing people for committee chairpersons for next year. Approval of other. positions is underway. · Also, after Thursday, the student activities constitutions which will be subject to revision will be available in Mrs. Marra's Union College Student Activities Budget 1984-85 Special Accounts Request Allocation Student Forum 4200 3200 Senior Fling 750 500 Student Activities Office 6500 6500 Homecoming 2300 1300 Summer Bills 3000 3000 Entertainment: Cabaret 3683 2030 Coffeehouse 4630 3041 Concert Committee 34000 25000 Film Committee 13379 13379 Social Committee 9000 4000 Speakers Forum 35219 28000 Mountebanks 3950 2330 Fitzhugh Ludlow Day 5000 4000 Camp Union 24000 20000 Communications and Publications: Concordiensis 22260 23260 Idol 14315 13015 WRUC 33207 25211 WRUC Record Hop 1010 210 Clt1b Sports: Cheerleaders 555 515 Curling Club 494 294 Frisbee Club 2756 1290 Men's Rugby Club 3933 2157 Stone Boat Club 2020 1810 Volleyball Club 1521 1261 Sailing Club 1258 888 Ski Club 3117 2200 Scuba Club 899 899 Crew Club 15522 8072 Women's Rugby Club 1533 1483 Dance and Music: Dance Club 3375 Jazz Ensemble 2985 Men's Glee Club 13645 Women's Glee Club 10469 Concert Band 4774 Dutch Pipers 415 Arts Club 2329 Cultural Orgailizations: Black and Latin Alliance 12058 Women's Network 3530 Women's Support Group 1906 Other Student Activities Amnesty International 1650 Big Brothers/Big Sisters 14885 Chemistry Club 325 Economics Club (Ceteris Paribus) 896 Circle K Society 2062 Outing Club 4972 Photography Club 1400 Pre-Law Society 473 < Student Environmental Alliance 1503 Gaming Association 236 W2UC (amateur radio club) 1112 Political Forum 1035 Biology Club 1810 Pre-Health Society 1570 I 1915 2425 6700 8469 3964 395 ·1729 2232 1955 718 1565. 4220 325 550 1713 2135 910 325 1091 236 55.7 535 1805 .705 ·Any questions concerning the budget figures should be addressed to the group's own Finance Representative. Also, no more vouchers will be written after May 31. All monies will thEm have to ~e obtained through Mrs. Marra. office. The issue of administrative . appointments to speqial· com .. mittees was also raised by Squires. He presented the Ad- ministration's ca~e. which believes that because the ac- tivities of these committees are funded by the Ad.minist~;ation (i.e. Orientation) then the Administration should piclt the students it believes can most effectively help with .the job. The forum felt otherwise, and after a rather long discussion came up with a formal motion on the issue: \Any ad hoc or permanent committee, presently existing or to be formed, containing student representatives, should have the student represen- tative( s) chosen by the Co C. The motion '.passed unanimously; 13-0. Oavid Neiblwn '85, of the Admissions Liaison Committee, presented a report of the committee's activities for the past year. The Admissions Liaison Committee has met only once this 'year to date, althOugh another . meeting is planned next week .. The purpose of this committee is to \relate admissions statistics to tl:le faculty and student bodies.\ It serves mainly as an in· formative body. President of the Inter Fraternity Counc'il (IFC), Roger Harris, reported on the IFC's latest activities. The IFC proposal to require higher minimum academic standards from all Greek houses is con- tinuing to be discussed. Some opposed the measlll\e desiring a , tutoring service or another positive outcome. Greek Week was also discussed; being seen by all as a big success. The IFC Escort Service has r:eportedly not been used that much. The IFC will try for greater advertisement. It was also believed that the escort service would mainly be used during late fall and winter, when weather and outdoor lighting are less than favorable. With no new report from the Trustees, the attention then turned toward Finance Com- mittee (FC) Co-Chairman Andrew George, who presented the Finance Committee Report. ~iscussed at the last meeting was the issue of the Crew Club's outside account with Lamont House. The FC decided that the money would be transferred over to Student Activities. Co- sponsoring ·Of events between Student Forum-funded ac- tivities, and non-funded political activities was discussed. A resolution was then passed by the Finance Committee which prohibited such joint funding measures without FC approval. The term \reception\ was defined by the Finance Com- mittee. It was determined that a reception was \an event which was open to the entire campus, held for a specific purpose relating to the club's func- tioning.'' Also to be discussed was the possible adininistrative funding of the Black and Latin Alliance of Students (B.L.A.S.). It was felt by the Finance Committee that B.L.A.S . though it had -ve~y good ideas for. activities, could not receive all of the requested funding. Several suggestions were proposed by the forum. Further .jnvestigation ·Of the issue will ensue. Lastly to be discussed were two problems which arose at WRUC. The first concerned phone caUs made by former General M.anager Jeff Dinces to England,. for the purported purpose of an interview. No interview, as of yet has been produced. Dinces has been given an ultimatum by WRUC; either present an edited in- terview by a set date; or be forced to pay for the calls. Secondly, a problem arose with the Music Director of WRUC making personal calls and charging thern tQ W{{UC. Presently, the amount · is ap- proximately $140, with the new phone bills (and additional charges) due. It should. be noted that the Music Pire.ctor did admit :to making the . calls.· In . response to the incident, the WRUC Executive Board decided to remove the in- dividual· from WRUC, make hi.tn repay the calls, and face Conduct Committe.e charges. The attention of the forum then changed· its focus toward ''old business.\ Of pril)lary concern was the status of the contract for the Pub video system between Food Service and several student activitie.s (including the forum). Presently, Food Set-vice wiLl not accept the . amended contract that the forum presented; they stilL wi.sh to .. exerCise\ 'the final say in. some programming of material for the system. An alternative clause may be in the works. (See article page 5.) Another point of concern about the video system is its sbowing of movies, a practice which is considered illegal without a proper license {See lead paragraph). Much discussion upon the issue followed, with the forum ap- proving a motion on the issue: \The Student Forum does not allocate money to the Pub video system without investigating tl:le legalities of the showing of movies.\ This motion was passed 12 Yes-1 No. The last item on the agenda was the proposal for absentee ballots in campus-wide elec- tions. Elections Committee Chairman Doug Landon and Freshman Representative Steve Moss believed that many problems caused by the Friday election date could be alleviated if the day of the elections was changed to Tuesday. As for absentee · ballots for students abroad, the idea was· not believed feasible due to the time factor involved. With no , \new business\ to discuss, the forum went into closed session to approve committee chairper.son selections made by the CoC. In addition, the forum changed the meeting time of its last meeting from 10 p.m. to 9 p.m. Effective June 1 , 1984, the Security & Safety phone number will be cha_nged from 370-6178 tG 370-6911. We are af· tempting to make the number for emergency calls to the .Security & Safety department easier to remember and use. The 911 number is the basic emergency number used in many of our major cities, several. student groups have endorsed the change. If the occasion arises that you should nee~ the services of the Security & Safety department, cli11l tlte 6911 on campus, should it be busy, the call will automatically transfer to the 6178 number. If you .forget the change af the phone number, 11nd dial 6178, you still will be able to get our office as a secondary number. ·In ByF: In p. main sonali1 and ty A'ster and hl petitiv is exp such ·I traits. Psyche wrote relate1 measrn studenl monotc charac sonalit: \I h with th Experi class. C condud learnm: people· wonder Union) this.\ In or subject: from P: distribu student: more disting types. I the top bottom After Bercow level of in the t1 certain made;' type A.p driving. test co1 render relaxed making of intelll - We. tha wis Due Rath ena~ reop -

CQNCORDIENSIS, May 24, 1984 Page7 FEATURES ·Investigation of Impatience By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor In psychology, there are two main types of general per• sonality classifications, type A and type B. Of these two, type A's tend to be more competitive and hard driving. At a com• petitive school such as Union it is expected to find numerous such ·people displayjng these traits. Jill Bercow, a Senior Psychology major at Union, wrote her thesis on a study related to this. Bercow measured the irritability of students when performing a monotonous task-one of the characteristics of type A per- sonality is impatience. \I had originally come up with the idea while taking an Experimental Psychology· class. One of the tests we had to conduct was a human memory· learnmg test. I personally know people who are impatient and I wondered how students (at Union) would react to a test like this.\ In order to find a group of - subjects, Bercow elicited help from Psychology 10 classes. \I distributed a qu.estionnaire to students, which is one of the more trusted means of distinguishing personality types. I then scored it and took the top 1-4 (type As) and the bottom 1-4 (type Bs).\ After finding the stibjects, Bercow tested them for their level of impatience. However, in tlte testing of the type 'A's, certain .considerations were made; ''A characteristic of the type A personality is their hard- driving nature. I had to create test conditions which would render them as calm and relaxed as possible - i.e. not making the test a determinant of intelligence. In response to AT ·THE RAT this ,problem, I presented the test as a comparison, that I just \Wanted the subjects' impression on the testing methods used.'' The specific test utilized was one iitvolving a memory drum. 'The drum rotates and presents the subject with nonsense syrnbols. The goal of the subject is to try to anticipate the next ' 'words'' to appear on the drum. Usually the test is performed until all of the \words\ are learned. However, in this case, Bercow intentionally did not let the subjects complete the. test. ''Not letting them complete the task heightened th~ir ' britation,\ added Bercow. After the test was performed, Bercow presented each subject with a questionnaire which served to measure irritation. In additio!l, each subject was presented with a 'free 'response form in which they could praise or criticize the methods used. In terms of her results, Bercow feels she \did not get significant results, although tbere are interesting ten- dencies.\ 'I'he irritation scores for the type A's were higher but not significantly higher. However, the comments given by the type A's on the free response form were only negative. Type B's were negative, but presented an occasional positive comment. A pcssible explanation would be that thetest of retention was not strong enough~ If a test were cbosen with more predictable results, there may have been more significant results. B.ercow also checked for different results among the sexes. It was found that test results varied little for women; but much for men. Outside studies have previously shown this. Possibly it is due to a difference in typing male and female type },./B personalities. We, the staff, would like f() express our sincere thanks for your patronage this year, and our best wishes to the graduating class of '84. Year End Musical E,ents Thurs., May 24 9:30-1:30 The Night Owls Back by .reqllest Thurs., May 31s1~:30-1: 30 Bluegrass Sounds of Midnight Flyer Tu.es., June 5 9:30-1 :30 Close theSkeHer for the Summer with the sounds of Mark Me~son Due to the Ce~mp Union Festivities, the Rathskeller will be .closed Gn Sat., May 26th, enabling our staff to loin in on th~ fun. We will reopen on Sun., May 27th at noon. Have a good Jummer And we 'II see you Back at the Rat In the F till! In terms of subject distri;bution, Bercow sur- prisingly got a good A-B distribution. \One would think that Union would be a type A, competitive environment.\ Overall, Sercow is quite pleased with her results, however she would have liked tp use a larger subject pool-only twenty four students were used. \With. a larger subject pool the differences would have been that much more apparent.\ In addition, a better test ·Of measuring irritation should be sought. \The test I used was picked due to its ease of run- ning.\ All in all, however, Bercow is satisfied with her research, .adding, \It was thoroughly interesting. Though I ran· into problems with methodology, the project was a · neat idea.\ Jill Bercow; senior PsYchology major, conducted a study related to personality classi.fi.catiori for her thesis. On~Campus Drinking: Programs Don't Work Well PITTSBURGH, PA (CPS)- Most of the student drinking abuse prevention programs on the nation's campuses aren't working well_, a University of Pittsbu;rgh psych,ology professor contends. A thorough review of the programs presents \no evidence that anything that has been done works in changing attitudes, knowledge or behavior,\ asserts Howard Blane, a professor of education and psychology at Pitt. Blane's criticism of existing campus programs caused a major stir at the recent con- vention of the American College Health Association in Atlanta, if only because so many· cam- puses have begun abuse prevention .programs in recent years. Almost 80 percent of the · nation's colleges now have some kind of · program, a Radford University survey recently found. That represents an increase of some 300 colleges between 19'78 and 1982. Blane, however, qUestions whether the programs are doing any good. He says t~ey are often directed at the wrong people. \For every 100 youngsters in college, 70 to 80 percent drink in ways that are not hazardous,\ he says. \You want to focus on the other 20 to 30 percent. But all college programs focus on the student body as a whole. Yet most students, rightly, don't see themselves as problem drinkers.\ Problem drinkers often don't see themselves as problem drinkers, either, and aren't likely to benefit from programs that \say 'Call the counseling center/ Research shows that students with substance abuse disorders don't use counseling centers very much,\ Blane adds. As proof, he points to a federally-funded program at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst. After five years, research showed that student problem drinkers got drunk an average of four times a month instead of five times. Blane is \focusing on just one part of our evaluation,\ counters Dr. David.Kraft, head of UMass's health services and of the campus alcohol abuse Big Brothers- Big Sisters You are invited to a Big Brothers-Big Sisters picnic on Sunday, May 27 at 1 :30 p.m. in Jacksons Gardens. This is our end ofthe year picnic for all Big Brothers-Big Sisters and their Littles, Group volunteers, and prospective new members. There will be food and refreslunents, games such as volleyball and soccer, and lots of fun. Please call and let us know if you can come. (374- 4523). ·Summer Vacation Please remember to discuss your summer vacation with your Little Brother-Little Sister. If possible, provide them with writing material such as paper, envelopes, and stamps so they can write to you during the surnt.ner. · g~ !JM • • ·~h-,.,:\~~·· I ·~~~~ J'!~~l - • · 1 srasum PHONES: 372-7270 ~70-3735 COR. UNION STREET & VAN ANTWERP RD. I PIZZERIAJ SCHENECTADY, N.Y. HOME ·sTYLE PIZZA FEATURING OROERS TO TAKE OUT \ prevention program. He argues the program helped make other, more subtle changes in student drinking habits. ''Individual reported drinking behavior didn't decrease,\ he concedes, ''but in the dorms, there were changes.\ The kinds of refreshments served at dorm parties changed, students confronted drinking students more frequently over disruptive behavior, and traffic at the counseling center increased, he points out. \Blane is right in criticizing this (educational) approach if it stops there,\ says Dr. Peter Claydon, director oi Cal..Santa Barbara's Alcohol and Drug Awareness Program. An awareness, educational program \can be like a drop in the ocean,\ he says. \Ideally U you give students information, they would make responsible (drinking) decisions,'' Claydon says. \But there are some students. for whom this doesn't work.\ Blane's convention attack on campus prevention programs was widely interpreted as an attack on BACCHUS, one of the biggest of the awareness programs. BACCHUS, which stands for Boost Alcohol Consciousness Concernin·g the Health of University Students, is now on some 153 campuses, reports Gerraldo Gonzales, assistant dean of student services at the University .of Florida and BACCHUS's national coor- dinator. Gonzeles says BACCHUS's rapid growth ,over the last. two years is ''evidence\ that campus attitudes are changing. He readily agrees awareness of abuse problems probably isn't enough to change behavior. \There are a number of op- tions, but they must be tied together into a comprehensive program if they're to change student behavior ;• he says. \Tightening policies won't do it alone. Awareness measures won't do it alone. Balance is needed. Programs are begin- ning to evolve ih this direction.\ At UMass, for example, tougher rules now hold students responsible for their drunk behavior, Kraft says. \Drinking is no longer con- sidered a mitigating cir- cumstance,\ he says. II) llJ .!:!> J:. u Ql C- J:. Q. Ill c >- .0 .e 0 J:. 0.

Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, May 24, 1984 TH.E ARTS \' 10 Ol s::. u Q >- .c 0 <- 0 s::. a. The San Francisco legacy By DEBBIE A'LBERT and BRIANLAUX The common denominator between the two hands at last weekends abbreviated Greek Week festivities ·was a musician, singer and comJ)Ol)er Morrigan of Santana an({ Papa ·John Creeks, one of the most amazing violinists (or fiddlers) of the rock age. The San Francisco All-stars did a short but energetic show that varied vetween soul, rhyth~ m & blues and rock & roll. The John Dawson, veteran ot the San Francisco music scene. of enormous talent. -John Dawson, the lead vocalist of the New Riders of the Purple Sage was among the many talented performers to grace the stage during Saturdays show on West. Beach, Dawson first played rhythm guitar and did some vocal work for the San Fran- cisco All-stars, a collection of artists was Joey Covington of Jefferson Airplane, David musicians themselves seemed to be enjoying the performance which only added to the fun and energy of the music they played. Dawson reappeared after a short intermission with his group, The New Riders. For those who are familiar with their music, the show was a treat, a collection of their greatest hits including Henry, Last Lonely Eagle, Panama Red, Lonesome L.A. Cowboy, and Lousiana Lady. In addition they performed the Grateful Dead classic, \Friend ·of the Devil\ which Dawson co- authored With Hobert Hwtter. Despite complaints that the show was too short (about an hour) it was extremely . en- joyable, especially for NRPS fans. Dawson confided that his plans for the future were still up in the air, but he might consider \doing this all-star thing again.'' Considering how much he seemed to enjoy doing it, I can't say that I blame him. A scene from \One Flew Ove;the Cuckoo's Nest,\ which will be performed May 23,24, 25, 26. , An Unusual ,Cafe By TOD DIMMICK Staff Breaking from my usual classy haunts in the downto\vn Schenectady metropolis, I decided to explore the delights of upper State Street. Sarcasm aside, I believe I have .found a restaurant and bar, tlle likes of which -cannot he found elsewhere in the area. - Tiffany's Cafe, 1584 State Street, doesn't look like much at first. Located next to Woodland Plaza, the cafe is small, seating aBout. 25 in the dining room downstairs. Softly lit, with blue tablecloths and maroon wallpaper, the atmosphere is intimate and comfortable. The entrees average $11.00. For that price, with salad or. soup, vegetable and potato of the day, you will be served a memorable main dish. The specialty of the house is the Double T, The \Tiffany Treat.\ This is a unique steak; New York strip. Sauteed in cognac and cream and covered with peppercorns,. this steak is flavorful and tender, with the combining tastes of · pep- percorns and cognac massaging the palate. Another specialty is Sole Meuniere, baked stuffed sole. Stuffed with shrimp and light breading, the delicate flavor of fresh sole is com- plemented in the whole dish, Other specialities include unusu~l .poultry and seafood dishes, The salads are fresh and ·Tiffany's ma)!:es . all their own dressings. For a vegetable I att~mpled to eat, neatly. an artichoke heart (it is 1m- possible, by the WC!Y! ). Other vegetables are cooked just right,. steaming, yet still crispy. A finishing touch for one of these excellent meals might be a mouth watering fresh strawberry daiquiri. The entree offerings. are few in number, but the. quantity tha_t is sacrificed is easily eom- pensated by the surpassing quality. The intimate at- mosphere and the efficient · service make for a carefree and delicious dinner. Tiffany's is not only a fine restaurant. Upstairs is a Vlell- stocked bar. With a D.-f. .and room for about 50 people, Tif- fany's lounge has been packed on more than a few weekends. Tbe · crowd varies in age, with most people being in their twenties. With this combination of food and drink, Tiffany's outshines any other establish- ment close. r to c. ampus; f. or .. those willing to be. pleasahtly surprised for fine food and drink, Tiffany's is the place to go. Su.m.mer Housing Rooms available at the Chi Psi Lodge from 6/ll thru 9/4. Very reasonable rate and access· to all facilities. Contact Mike Kozub or Paul Kurker at 382-9029. ~~--------------~~~~~------------~----~----· EffECTIVE 4123184 • 6115/84 HOW IN THE WORLD DID YOU ACCUMULATE ALL THAT STUFF THIS YEAR? ... And what are you going· to do with it? Adh·ondaek Trallways wlil shiP your bags, boxes, suitcases. t~unks, books. teddy bears, bikes, skates. skis, cartons, records,'bunelles and laundry home fOr you 2 ·o. % regular pack~ge at . OfF express races JuSt show your stUdent 1.0. card to our package e~~:press ... ... and, let us do the restl For Information (:all: Adirondack Trailways, The Travel Center 22 State Street, Schenectady (518) 346·3415 or 436-9651, ext. 17 P.S. We'll take you home too! /~~---···· ( /) - - - Te A gat . bepl until The Emp Perf1 uniq1 Sp1 Uttl1 dHfe ment that focrn over instr1 it ere actin Fort area Thus avail Ten 1 the fonn• Pul them with II. Tl infarr Chan F s p Eri pe1 U.n Ur fe Frit at us Co1 the will 3:3 Gar1 bee1 vollt held

Christie Mystery By TOD DIMMICK Ten Little· Indians, an Agatha ChriStie mystery, Will . be playing at the Egg in Albany until May 26 at various times. The Egg is the 'home of the Empire State Institut~ for the Perforiiling Arts (ESIPA); a unique theatre in the northeast. Speaking with the cast of Ten Uttle Indians, some of the differences of ESIP A were mentioned: \A difference is that we have an educational focus. We travel to schools all over for demonstrations and instruction. This is useful in that it creates an interest not only in acting but in ESIPA as well.\ For those in college, internships are available in tectmical areas. Thus at the Egg, a lot more is available than just great plays. Ten Uttle Indians is the last in the season's series of per- formances. Published in 1939,. this play in theme -follows closely in spirit with the unfolding World War II. The play is set during the infamous weekend of Neville Chamberlain's meeting with Ado_lf Hitler to discuss the al'lllexation of the Sudetenland. \Peace in our time\ became· one of the most tragic;~lly ironic quotes of all time. As Adolph Hitler was a self-ordained superman, the antagonist in this mystery takes upan himself the role of the judge, jury and e;s;:ecutioner for his guests. The guests are 10 people visiting an island fortress off the coast of Devonshire, England. Isolated by a storm and. no communication, the purpose of their visit slowly becomes fiendishly clear. Every one of the ten is accused of murder. Then sloWly, amid frantic speculation among the prisoners, people start to die. Accusations fly, yet slowly, inexorably, th,e tenJittle Indians over the fireplace dwindle, one by one. The acting is flawless, and the special effects combine with the intricate set to create an at- mosphere of great tension. A masterpiece of chilling suspense and intrigue, Ten tittle Indians should not be missed. APPLICATIONS are now being accepted for two positions on . The 1984 Orientation Committee · Forms may be picked up in the Dean of Students' Office. The deadline for ap- plication is Thurscfay, May 24. CONCORDIENSIS, May 14, 1984 Page9 THE ARTS Camelot at Proctor's A Night On The Town ~y TOO DIMMICK Camelot, the now famous Broadway mu~ical starring Richard Harris, will be at Proctor's until this Sunday. The production tells the legend of King Arthur in England long ago, Based on The Once and Future King by T.H. White, this musical carries the rQmantic intrigue of the Court at Camelot, the ill-fated love of Guenevere and the virtuous Sir Laneelot. A musical of national fame, the performances should be memorable. Merely from witnessing part of the rehearsal, one feels compelled to stay and watch. Richard Harris, who was awarded the Golden Globe Award for best actor in 1967 for the film \Camelot has im- mortalized the role. of King Arthur. Speaking of Camelot, he saia: \It stimulates me more that I have directed it. I'm a perfectionist and I never get bored. There's always something wrong! All that helps to keep it alive for me.\ He wants his players to always be conscious of themselves, and often has them watch other actors doing their own roles to see how to improve. Harris had a lot to say about America and the attitudes of people here. He describes Americans as \Healthily Naive: They still believe in that morality, that ethic (from Camelot). They still believe we can all live together peacefully. This ideal, I'm not Richard Harris stars in Camelot at Proctor's afraid to say, lives nowhere For those of you who were else.\ He referred to the outside on Tuesday, you might reception of Camelot in have seen Richard Harris England, where people con- wandering around campus. He sidered the play to be trite and even went into the Bookstore unrealistic. The reception in the and bought a couple of pairs of U.S. is certainly different. sweats! Harris loved Union,. Richard Harris, who lives on an with spring just getting un- island called Paradise (!) in the derway this week, \I spent the Bahamas, won't be going home afternoon wandering around the until this tour ends next school-Union-it is reaUy December 22. Richard Harris beautiful!\ he said. He plans on would have it no other way. In coming back later this week. the future, he plans. never to Anyway, for those interested take any extended break from in great theatre, don't miss the stage. Camelot this week. Eric Kilburn will be performing at the U.nion · at the Union's Final Arts Montage Union Cof- feehouse on . \ . Friday;_ May 25th at 8:30 p.m. Join us for the last Coffeehouse of the terml Typing 382- 5668 The Economics Picnic will be held May 24 at 3:30 in Jackson's Garden. There will be beer and bar·b-q. A volleyball game will be held. All are welcome. FREE. Jill Bercow toPeiforn, On Wednesday, May 30 at 8 p.m., the Arts Department will sponsor a piano recital by Jill Bercow, a senior psychology major. Jill has been playing piano for 13 years, and has performed in solo competitions and with jazz and choral groups. Her forte, however, is classical music, and she is presently studying under Union College pianist and teacher Pola Baytelman. Next year, Jill plans to begin pursuing a Ph.D fu clinical psychology at SUNY Buffalo. Wednesday's recital will feature works by Bach, Beethoven, and Liszt, plus the first movement of a Mozart concerto, accompanied by Ms. Baytelman. The recital ~ be in room 202 of the Arts Buildmg, and a reception will follow. Outdoor Farewell Concerts By STEF ANIESP .ANIER Today, May 24, and next Thursday, May 31, the Garnet Quintet will be performing out of doors! Sarah Carpenter, flute;' Irene Fassler, oboei Lauta Robin, clarinet; Davia Civale, hotn; and Stefanie Spanier, bassoon, will gi~e two open air concerts on Library Plaza at 3:30p.m. the woodwind quintet will perform pieces by Mozart, Beethoven, Fine, and Milhaud. These two recitals will be the farewell performances of the Garnet Quintet as four of its members are leaving the ,Union community this year. These concerts will be informal, so just come by, sit on the grass, and enjoy! Night Owls at the Rat At the Rat this Thursday, May 24 are the Night Owls, a rockin' rhythm n' blues trio. Guitarist-vocalist Mark Davenport, drummer Dave Kavanaugh, and pianist Robert Aronstein are sure to follow up their April appe~rance with another good show this Thur .. sday. ' The Night Owls entertained on Feb. 28 with a broad selec- tion ·of tunes from the 50's .through the 80's. Included in their repertoire are Chuck Berry, theBeatles, Dobey Grey, the Eagles, Genesis an,d the Allman Brothers. Expect some different tunes by these artists in addition to more new songs and original material. Since their last appearance at the Rat, the Night Owls have been playing at Boreali's and Fernando's in Cobleskill, Shooters in Latham., and the Blockhouse Beef n' Brew in Schenectady. From Shooters they played on a live . radio broadcast celebrating WPTR's 25 years on the air. They expect to be doing some large events of this type in the near future. A new dimension has been added to the sound of this group with the addition of organ, bass, and synthesizer to the keyboard set-up. Also, especially on the Beatles material, the Night Owls have worked out vocal harmonies authentic to the original recordings. These factors make the group an exceptionally full sounding trio. The diverse talents of Mark, Dave and Rob make the Nightowls a ~usical treat for anyone, and definitely .pleased the palates of the Union College crowd at their last appearance. For a night .guaranteed to deliver cooking blues, moving ballads, and hot rock n' roll see the Night Owls at the Union College Rathskeller this 'Thursday, May 24 9:30 to 1:30. Debut Solo Recital This Friday at 7 p.m., Miss Janice Thompson will be per- forming her first solo piano recital at Union College. Janice is a sophomore at Union and takes piano lessons from Ms. Pola. Baytelman (adjunct faculty member) here on campus. Janice is quite musical, having been a manbet of the Concert Band, Jazz Ensemble, wind nonette, and also performing in other recitals on both the piano and trombone. Janice has been playing piano for twelve years and has studied with Miss Helen Harendza, Mrs. MaryLou Muratoti~ and :Mts. Jeannette Sinisi. She spent' two summers at the New England Music Camp in Oakl~d, Maine and studied there with Mr. Dan Forman. Here, at Union, Janice has a private music lesson once a week with Ms. Baytelman, and she usually practices an average of five days a week for up to three hours at one sitting. She started practicing the music .for this performance last spring term. According to Janice, \Pia.Do is an 'escape' for me-a break from classes. It's ironic that it's so important to me, because when I started, I hated it. i didn't even want to start taking lessons. I would have rather played guitar at the time, but my music teacher father wanted me to take a year of formal music training on piano first. I did so, and threw tan- trums throughout my prac- ticing time, but I never quit. And I never did play guitar.\ We should .be very glad that she never did quit. Janice is quite a talented musician and her recital should be thoroughly enjoyable. Included in the recital will be pieces by Bach, Debussy, and Mozart. Again, it is Friday, May 25, at 7 p.m.; there will be a reception to follow. All are welcome! 17 Days Until Graduation

Page 10 Fountkd at lfmon roll~t '1877 ------------ ----------- It's Time fora Beer! It is four o'clock in the morning and weare having a lot of trouble writing our last editorial for Con- cordiensis. It is difficult to say goodbye to a school and a paper that we have been a part of for four years. We will truly miss the late nights with aur smal~ ~ut dedicated staff and we regret the end of an acbvtty that at times was more important than anything else. On the other hand, we are ·looking forward to the next few weeks. We will no longer have to worry about what to write ·about, why certain staff writers are late with their articles, why certain others haven't bothered to write at all, and whose criticisms to consider carefully and whose to disregard. For the first time in a long time we will be able to go to the Skeller before 1 a.m. on Tuesday nights. We will also be able to do what we want when we want without the responsibilities and hassles of being an editor. We have worked hard this year to make ·Concordy a paper Union could be proud of. Whether we have succeeded is hard for us to know. However, we are confident that next year's editors will serve the college even better. They have more experience than many of the editors in past ye~rs. W, e hope that they will have your support and gratitude m the future. Congratulations to the new Concordy Editors- in-Chief Fall-Winter 1984 Marcy Burstiner & Gayle Rosenfeld Ushers Needed for Commencement. Sunday,JunelO All Interested Volunteers Should Sign Up in the Student Activities Office . Please note the corrections for the final exam schedule for Spring 1984 MONDAY, JUNE 4-8:30-10:30 a.m. Physics-Introduction to Physics II, Sec. 2-8chick-N OIZ WEDNESDAY, JUNE 6- 2:00.4:00 p.m. E.S. 26-Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer- Shanebrook, N 014 E.S. 32-Electrical Circuits and Devices II, Sec. 1-- Branch-BH 201 SAYE THE SKELLAR CONCORD/t:NS/5: May 24, 1984 LETTERS COC Criticism Continues ro the Editor: I would like to take this op- portunity to reiterate some very appropriate comments made by other dissatisfied committee chairmen. Quite simply, the members of the Committee on Committees have turned the entire selection process into an ·embarrassment to Union College .. As is known by the student body, the COC chooses the members ofthe following years' committees. The student body, ltowever,. has not been told of the absurd matter in which this is done. Most members of the COC have little idea of w.ho has clone the work this year for various conunittees and a~ solutely no idea of who would do the best job next year. As a result, we would expect ·that they would invite the current chairpeople to be involved in the selection process. As a current chairman. however. I can attest to the fact that no attention has been paid to my input. Thus, at the current level of extremely efficient work that the COC is doing I would expect· that the \qualified\ new commlttee chairmen will be selected during finals week. Is this enough time to train them fQr next years~ responsibilities? As a result ofthis reason and those that follow, ( :have per- sonally withdrawn my ap- plication for chainnan of Social Committee. 1) My interviewers, members of the COC, asked questions Whose answers would have absolutely no bearing on. my performance as Social Chainnan. 2) I was called af 4 PM for an 8 PM interview. Instead of questioning my performance and efficiency, as a candidate for Social Chairman, perhaps - the COC should take one step . back and look at their own performance and efficiency. 3) Applicatioils were reopened . aftel' interviews were com- pleted. It does not take a dOI~­ torate in Soci<Jl«>gy to draw the conclusion that r.esp.onsible students who wanted the chairmanship and would do· a fine job would have applied before the deadline. 4) The Social Committee budget is half of last. years' budget. 5) The Camp Union budget has remained at $20,000 for the tbird consecutive year. All of this should make one · wonder whether the COC and the Finance Committee are committed to increasing student apathy and destroying the social atmosphere at Union College. I for one, think so. Sincerely, . . Joe Cernigliaro Speakers Forum Chairman & FORMER. candidate for Social Committee Chainnan Process Draws Anger To the Editor: As candidates for selection as chairman of two different committees, we would like to call attention to some of the failings ·of our committee selection process. First of all, we would like to make it clear that this is not a 'sour grapes' letter, for as of the date that this ·letter was submitted to the Concordiensis · the Committee on Committees has yet to make a decision (although the ap- plications had been submitted 3 weeks ago and the interviews ltad be·en completed weeks Library Criticized To the Editor: Union College is constantly seeking to upgrade and maintain high educational, academic and physical stan- dards for its student body and its campus, and yet among all the vast improvements being considered for the near future, one glaring omission is ap- parent. Schaffer Library is not an. adequate facility for an institution that seeks to be mentioned in the same breath as Williams, Amherst, Trinity or Bowdoin. 440,000 volumes for an academic institution of our nature is a disgrace. Other schC>ols have double and triple the amounts of volumes. Students who seek to do ex- tensive scientific engineering or other technical research often have to travel to R.P.I. or Albany. Even • students doing thesis work in the Social Sciences or Humanities must go elsewhere to find resources. Some students have turned to the Schenectady Ubrary as an alternative for research. It seems paradoxical that while our tuition, endowment and annual fund can keep pace with other \top notch\ in- stitutions, something so essential as our library can be so inferior. Some action should be taken to expand the size and scope of Schaffer Library. It should be more than just an adequate (or inadequate) library, it should be a symbol of excellence. Union is an out- standing school, we Should have an outstanding library. Students for the :Betterment of Educational and Experimental Research. Ken D'Orazio, Peter Gillen, Tim Devlin, Brianl..aux ago). For most committees this procrastination is merely an inconvenience but for the Speakers Forum this means that there will be no speaker booked for Homeco:tnirig next year. Our major complaint with the COC is that not only are they tal{ing so long to make a final selection, hut that about one week after the interviews for positions were completed, they reopened C!I!Plications for chairman of several com- mittees, including Speakers .Forum and Social Committee. We cannot describe our feelings of shock and anger when we read the notice that the COC had distributed to all the mail boxes a week after our interviews. There is no other way to describe their action but as a slap in the face. As candidates ·for tnese positions we felt that the COC was telling us that we were not good enough to . head these - committees. An analogy to this situation is having the Yankees win the Worl<l Series and then the Commissioner of Baseball saying that this is not the team he wanted so the World Series must be played over. To end this letter we can honestly say we can offer no better method to replace the COC but we are sure that if the Student Forum sets its mind to it, they can ; find a better method. Sincerely, Craig Mandelblit Applicant for Speakers ForumCharr GabeElkin, candidate for Speaker Forum Chair TotheEd Recen1 in the \Opportt Educatic how eal student! \Even who ar' schedule abro~d 1 for it ahE this pro~ in theco1 have m< most col abroad. 1 I was no to the pr, chance < Greecet~ my Juni were not seems t biased 1 majors. To theE~ I appr Sophomc allowing letter in And, I ~ sense of shared \VI not only to Gree< subs crib will not 1 if this ye. (over 8 positions especia11 c TotheE1 On th4 Chi's ar perverte the Girl $1200 w moneyp; 'To the Ed I am w respect t~ more recognitio junior v~ teams pr just as varsity co To the Ed I consi~ to have h Professor Professio. class op~ mind) to and ethic engineer. shame tl er classm given this for the stt for societ Studies' TotheEc The 1! has beer one yet • Film Cc 19,000 h appreciai communi c

Page 10 CONCORD/ENS/~: May24. 1984 LETTERS dtnmrbirnsis Foundnl at l lmon Coli~~ \J!i 77 ------------ ---------- COC Criticism Continues It's Time fora Beer! It is four o'clock in the morning and we are having a lot of trouble writing our last editorial for Con- cordiensis. It is difficult to say goodbye to a school and a paper that we have been a part of for four years. We will truly miss the late nights with our smal! ~ut dedicated staff and we regret the end of an acbvtty that at times was more important than anything else. On the other hand, we are looking forward to the next few weeks. We will no longer have to worry about what to write about, why certain staff writers are late with their articles, why certain others haven't bothered to write at all, and whose criticisms to consider carefully and whose to disregard. For the first time in a long time we will be able to go to the Skeller before 1 a.m. on Tuesday nights. We will also be able to do what we want when we want without the responsibilities and hassles of being an editor. To the Editor: I would like to take this op- portunity to reiterate some very apprapriate C(i)mments made by other dissatisfied committee chairmen. Quite simply, the members af the Committee on Committees have turned the entire selection process into an embarrassment to Union College .. As is known by the student body, the COC cheoses the members ef the following years' committees. The student body, however, has not been told ef the absurd matter in which this is done. Most members of the COC have little idea of who has done the work this year for various committees and alr solutely no idea ef who would do the best job next year. As a result, we would expect that they would invite the current chairpeople to be involved in the selection process. As a current chairman. however, I can attest to the fact that no attention has been paid to my input. Thus, at the current level of extremely efficient work that the COC is doing I would expect that the \qualified\ new committee chairmen will be selected during finals week. Is this enough time to train them for next years' responsibilities? As a result af this reasc:Jn and those that follow, I have per- sonally withdrawn my ap- plication for cha:irrnan of Social Committee. 1) My interviewers, members of the COC, asked questions whose answers would have absolutely no bearing on my performance as Social Chairman. 2) I was called at 4 PM for an 8 PM interview. Instead of questioning my perfannance and efficiency, as a candidate for Social Chairman, perhaps the COC should take one step back and loak at their own performance and efficiency. 3) Applications were reopened after interviews were com- pleted. It does not take a doc- torate in Saciology to draw the conclusion that responsible students who wanted the chairmansflip and would do a fine job would have applied before the deadline. 4) The Social Committee budget is half of last years' budget. 5) The Camp Union budget has remained at $20,000 for the third consecutive year. All of this should make one wander whether the COC and the Finance Committee are committed to increasing student apathy and destroying the sacial atmosphere at Union College. I for one, think so. Sincerely, Joe Cernigliaro Speakers Forum Chairman & FORMER candidate for Social Committee Chairman We have worked hard this year to make Concordy a paper Union could be proud of. Whether we have succeeded is hard for us to know. However, we are confident that next year's editors will serve the college even better. They have more experience than many of the editors in past ye~rs. W,e hope that they will have your support and grab tude m the future. Process Draws Anger Congratulations to the new Coneordy Editors-in-Chief Fall-Winter 1984 Marcy Burstiner & Gayle Rosenfeld To the Editor: As candidates for selection as chairman of two different cormnittees, we would like to call attention to some of the failings of our committee selection process. First of all, we would like to make it clear that this is not a 'sour grapes' letter, for as of the date that this letter was submitted to the Concordiensis the Committee on Committees has yet to make a decision (although the ap- plications had been submitted 3 weeks ago and the interviews had been completed weeks Library Criticized To the Editor: ••••••••••••••••••••-• Union College is constantly Ushers Needed for Commencement Sunday,JunelO All Interested Volunteers Should Sign Up in the Student Activities Office seeking to upgrade and maintain high educational, academic and physical stan- dards for its student body and its campus, and yet among all the vast improvements being considered for the near future, one glaring omission is ap- parent. Schaffer Library is not an adequate facility for an institution that seeks to be mentioned in the same breath as Williams, Amherst, Trinity or Bowdoin. 440,000 volumes for an academic institution of our nature is a disgrace. other schools have double and triple the amounts of volumes. Students who seek to do ex- tensive scientific engineering or other technical research often have to travel to R.P.I. or Albany. Even students doing thesis work in the Social Sciences or Humanities must go • •••••••••••••••••••••1111 elsewhere to find resources. Some students have turned to . Please note the corrections for the final exam schedule for Spring 1984 MONDAY, JUNE 4-8:30-10:30 a.m. Physics-Introduction to Physics II, Sec. 2-Schick-N 012 WEDNESDA 'V, JUNE 6-2:00..4:00 p.m. E.S. 26-Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer- Shanebrook, N 014 E.S. 32-Electrical Circuits and Devices II, Sec. 1- Branch-BH 201 SAVE THE SKELLAR the Schenectady Library as an alternative for research. It seems paradoxical that while our tuition, endowment and annual fWld can keep pace with other \top notch\ in- stitutions, something so essential as our library can be so inferior. Some action should be taken to expand the size and scope of Schaffer Library. It should be more than just an adequate (or inadequate) library, it should be a symbol of excellence. Union is an out- standing school, we should have an outstanding library. Students for the Betterment of Educational and Experimental Research. Ken D'Orazio, Peter Gillen, Tim Devlin, BrianLaux ago). For most committees this procrastination is merely an inconvenience but for the Speakers Forum this means that there will be no speaker booked for Homecoming next year. Our major complaint with the COC is that not only are they taking so long to make a final selection, but that about one week after the interviews for positions were completed, they reopened ~QPlications for chairman of several com- mittees, including Speakers Forum and Social Committee. We cannot describe our feelings of shock and anger when we read the notice that the COC had distributed to all the mail boxes a week after our interviews. There is no other way to describe their action but as a slap in the face. Editors-in·Chief News Editors Features Editor Associate Features Editor Commentary Page Editor Arts Editors Campus Page Erlitors Sports Editors Associate Sports Editor Advertising Editor Associate Advertising Editors Photo Edit{)rs SportS Photo Editor Subscription Editors As candidates for these positions we felt that the COC was telling us that we were not good enough to head these . committees. An analogy to this situation is having the Yankees win the World Series and then the Commissioner of Baseball saying that this is not the team he wanted so the World Series must be played over. To end this letter we can honestly say we can offer no better method to replace the COC but we are sure that if the Student Forum sets its mind to it, they can find a better method. Sincerely, Craig Mandelblit Applicant for Speakers Forum Chair GabeElkin, candidate for Speaker Forum Chair Julle Abelr.fian, Donna Getson Jan Baran, Gayle Rosenfeld Franklin Schneider Betsy Treitler _ PeterMohr Debbie Albert, Brian Lau.x: Karen Greaves. Jill KaUfman Paul Kurker~ Lynn O'Brien I)()ug Baumgarten Mary Ann Gagliardi Debbie Rose, ElfenSiipp Daphne Cbigas, Larry Kamin~ky Robert Tang Jimcatnpbell, David Frantz Tom. Barrett .• RichardBiegen Sarah Calderini • Ted Gannon, Jeff Chess, Scott Collins, Lori Cooper, Tod Dimmick, Barbara Doylt\l Diane Duffy, Ilysee Feingold, Steve Glazer, Darryl Grux, Linda Gutb), Lynn Hano, Ted Kendris, Michael Knopf, PaulKurker, Karen Lissauer, Dave :Mar.in, George A. Murray Ill, Matt Nankin, Lori Ollwenstein, Sharon Pearl, Judy Philipson, SteveJ?iraino, Linda Raffaele~ Rob RisseU, Amy Rosenkrantz, Larry Shapiro, Lauren S()bel, Stefanie Spanier) ~udil) Steinhardt, AaronToffler, Scott Wykoff Photo Staff Beth Bernell;Heidi Kahn, Pat Merritt, Staff • Jessie Ruofft Patti Sacks, Steve Shapirot Frank Skorina . . . CONCOltDlENSIS i$ published every :Thursday by the stud,ent body of Union College;, carnegie Hall, Schenectady 1 New Y~rk 123Q8; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publi.cfltions, Inc., Box 388. Sidneyt New York 13~8, (60?) 563-3526. Entered in the Schenectady Poat Otfice as first clas~linatter. Subscription rate, $18 per year~ delivered anywhere ifl, the United States. Office Telephone:.. · s, .. . . ... . · CONCORD .· . . . auli$Ctlbes . to the College . Press Service ·(CPS),. and uti~ces:tbe Coll~S'eNewsBtttet\U(CN,S), . ·I To theE< Recen in the \Opportl Educati1 how ea, student, \Even wha ar schedulE abroad £or it ah• this pro! in the co have m' most co: abroad.· I was n(] te the pr chance ' Greecet my Juni were no1 seems 1 biased majors. To theE I appl Sophom1 allowing letter in And, I ' sense ol shared v not only to Gree1 subs crib will not· if this ye (over ~ positiom especial: ( To theE On th Chi's a1 pervert€ the Girl $1200 \\ moneyp. 'TotheEc I am~ respect t more recognith junior Vl teams p1 just as varsity C< TotheE<i I consi to have 11 Professm Professio class op mind) to and ethi< engineer. shame t er classn given thh for the st1 for societ Studies To theE< The 1 has beeJ one yet Film 0 19,000 11 apprecia commun c

CONCORDIENS/S, frlt~Y :u. 1984 Pagell LETTERS I. A Democratic Process To the Editor: Questions Answered Recently an article appeared in the Concordiends about ''Opportunities for ll)ternational Education.\ The article. stated how ea~y it was for Union students to study abroad; \Even engineering students, who are on <1 very tight schedule, can take. a term abro~d program; if they plan for it ahead of tinle.\ I feel that this program is <me of the best in the country. It is true that we have more opportunities than most college students to study· abroad. Unfortunately, because I was not an engineer· applying to the program, there was little chance of my getting into the Greece termabroad program in my Junior year. Although we were not told ahead of time, it seems that' the program is biased towards engineering majors. Almost two-thirds of the available spaces for the 1985 term abroad .to 'Greece were automatically given to a list of ''preferred students.'' Students Who are in the six-year-med prograp1·. those who are going to be semors or those who are in t~e engineering program were given preference over all other students.. This happened even tl1ongh we were told \because of the heavy competition this year, a student's cumulative index will be a major portion of the decision.\ I am not an eJJgineer, nor a six-year-med student, nor will I be a senior· i:le;d year. The problem is that many other students have \conflicts\ which are keeping t!tem from going at any other time. As a freshman. it was ~possible to. go and as a senior, ·I will have a thesis to prepare. Preparing a thesis over a split fall-spring term .is not only difficult but also a distinct disadvantage. I do believe that due to their rigid schedule, Engineers should · have some special con- sideration. The permissiveness, however, that is being shown to them is above and beyond what I consider \fair play.\ An engineering student with a G.P.A. of under 2.5 was ac~ cepted over students with cumulative indices well over 3.0 including a physics major. with a 3.4 average. If this is what the Union College administratjon calls a \democratic process,\ then I for one will· not be ex- pecting to spend a term abroad during my time at Union College. As a solution, I propose a lottery system similar to the housing lottery. That way, a term abroad is open to all. A Frustrated Sophomore Response From Terlns Abroad . ' To the Editor:· accepted in a m()re normal year, would agree. What would be most helpful to the program would be for \A Frustrated Sophomore\ to come forward and e1q>lain to me how the lottery would work. To the Editor: There seems to be a few questions circulating around campus concerning the newest addition to the Dutch HollDw. Those q:uestions are concerning the installation of the 10 ft. Video screen. A. What is it? B. What is it for? c. Why? D. Who paid for it? E. What are we going to do with it? The question of wllat it is can be explained in this manner: The system consists of three pieces: 1. 10 ft. ceiling mGunt screen 2. Novabeam ceiling mount monitor (projector) 3. VHS Video player and receiver What is it for? Usillg this equipment we are able to view the .five local television stations, channels 6, 10, 17,13 and 23 and Video cassettes. We are presently looking into a com- pany that rents cassettes and covers all copyright laws .. Why? It was felt that Union College Camous needed a place where the entire campus community can come and relax and be entertained without going\to a lot of expense. The purchase Df this equipment was felt to be an investment rather than a direct expense. The cost of the live entertainment is quite expensive, which· limits the number of engagements that can be b()oked. The equipment makes it possible to have entertainment every night on which the Dutch . Hollow is open. Entertainment means videos, sporting events, news and television shows. Come next fall when Union College's football team participates in the championship game, whlch is televised, we'll be all set. Who financed the purchase? The system was jointly financed through Union College Food Service, Student Forum, Social Committee and Concert Conunittee with the approval of the administration. Student Forum approval is pending. What are we going to use it for? For the enjoyment of the Union College Campus Com- munity. Gary Salerno Manager, The Dutch Hollow I appreciate ~'A · Frustrated Sophomore's'' consideration in allowing me to see his or her letter in time to respond to it. And, I apreciate the person's sense of frustration, which is shared with many other people, not only those who hoped to go to Greece, but on other over- subscribed programs as well. It will not he clear until next year if this year's situ~tion in Greece (over 80 applicants for 30 positions) was a fluke due to our especially lengthy Winter this year, or if it is a trend that will continue. Two things. howev- er are .clear. Students who are willing to consider one and only one program may find them- selves dosed out, no matter what system of selection is used. And, if we continue to have large numbers of students who fall into a \special\ category, then indeed the selection process is not working fairly and a new one needs to be devised. The idea of a lottery is an interesting one, although I am. not sure if the 3.4 physics ma]or, who would have been Might I use this opportunity to mention that there is still space available in the Israel program for next winter. Inte11ested people should apply im- mediately. Reevaluation Urged Sincerely yours, William W. Thomas Director of Tenns Abroad Clambake· A Success Despite Theft To the Editor: On the nigl!t before Sigma Chi's annual clambake some perverted individuals broke into the Girling Center and stole $1200 worth .of clams. The money paid for these clams was t«? go toward a local charity. We would like to extend our apologies to those wbo paid for clams, but were unable to receive them. We are happy to report that despite this theft the clambake was a success. A good time was had by all and more importantly \Ve were still able to donate money to a local charity. Many thanks to all who attended and we look forward to seeing you there next year. Sincerely, The Brothers of Sigma Chi J. V. Recognition Requested 'To the Editor: I am writing this letter with respect to the recognition (or more accurately non- recognition) given to Union's junior varsity teams. These ~earns practice and compete JUst as rigorously as their varsity counterparts-however, they are not honored at the sports banquet, nor are they given any type of award. Granted, the skill level of the J. V. team is not equal to that of varsity, yet their enthusiasm and competitiveness is on the same par. N ex:t year, when handing out a wards and making invitations to the banquet, I sincerely hope the athletic cadministration will at least consider the J. V. squads and keep in mind the J.V's invaluability as a building block for future varsity teams: A frustrated J.V. player Ethics Course Praised To the Editor: I consider myself privileged to have had the chance to take Professor Griggs' Ethics and Professionalism course. This cl~ss opened my eyes (and rnmd) to what professionalism and. ethics are to the aspiring engmeer. I feel that it is a shame that rny fellow low- e~ classmates 'Will no longer be g1ven this opportunity, not only for the studentsthemselves, but for society as a whole. Studies have indicated that graduating engineers who have not been exposed to ethics and professionalism during their undergraduate education .are grossly deficient in this area. They tend not to relate to what is in the best interests of the public, but rather towards eg!)ism. The administration here at Union seems to be of the opinion that engineering ethics should be taught through the philosophy department. I would have no qualms about this if the philosophy department had on its staff an eltperienced engineer to teach this course. It is ludicrous for the ad- ministration to stop a professor from teaching a subject that he- she feels is important because this course falls outside of their department; especially when these courses are not offered by the other departments. How then are we to be exposed to this subject matter? JohnC. DeMi:s Classof'84 Free Film To Be Shown To the Editor: support, the Film Committee will be presenting free showings The 1983..84 academic year of the Academy Awa1·d winning has been the most successful film \Tern.s of Endearment,\ o~e yet .f()r tbe Union College on Friday, June 1 and Saturday, Film Conunittee, with over June 2 at 7 :30 and lll p.m. In 19,000 happy customers. In order to prevent overcrowding, appreciation to the· campus free tickets will be available at community for their enormous the Carnegie Hall Box Office one hour before each show time (two tickets per person, maximum). We hope you enjoy the show. Thaaat's all folks!'! The Union College Film Committee This I$ the last Issue of Concordlensis for the year. Publiccltion will resume In the fall. To the Editor: We urge the Administration to reconsider the proposed parking lot between Wells House and McKean (Kappa Alpha Society) House. We feel that with the proposed new lot next to Garis Field and the current excess parking behind Richmond there is more than ample parking for a \walking campus.\ In addition we urge the Administration to recon- sider . the placing of the proposed new road in: or next to Jackson Gardens since this road will cause both noise and air pollution detracting from the natural beauty of the gar- dens. For those who agree with us we hope you will stop by Car- negie today to sign a petition letting your views be heard. Student Alliance ·Peter Hutc'hison '86 Shawne McCord'85 Mike Factor '84 Representing the Environmental Help Out The Garnet To the Editor: The yearbook staff is down to an all-time low of three members. As these few members attempt to produce a ye!'!rb,oo~ for the entire college community the reslllt is an exhausted staff doing the best they can, but having trouble arriving with a quality book. Whose responsibility is the yearbook? The Union Co1lege yearbook, entitled the Gamet,. represents a year at Union College. A poor quality year- book represents both a poor representation of the year and also a lack of caring from t,he college community concerning this representation. Much of the blame for the results of the yearbook are usually attributed to the \apathetic\ students. Yet why should a student feel that s-he should spend long. hours in a darkroom when there are many · off-campus organizations that can readily be paid to do such work? Getting the finances to pay these off-campus workers is easily accomplished. Yet to get a fraction of this amGunt of money to pay students to do the .same work for their own college is impossible. There is no logic in the reasoning that the yearbook may pay outside contractors but may not pay students a fraction of this for the same work. Yet there is a logical argument against paying students: students shoUld want to work for their school by reason of their dedication. Although this makes sense, the results have not come true. The lack of quality in past year- books as well as the coming Garnet stems from the lack of staff. Is there a solution to this dilemma? Although each school varies, it is helpful to analyze their situation. Some schools pay the editors of the yearbook. Others, including SUNY at Albany, have a photo service run by students. This service supplies all of the phot9graphy needs of the school. At Union this would include the needs of the Garnet, Concordiensis, Freshman Record and some of the needs of the school's publication office in Lamont House. This would keep all the work done on the campus, reduce the cost, maintain or increase the quality, as well as eliminate the duplication of photography assignments. A third method used at other schools, sometimes in addition to paying students, is giving them course credit. Although this is normally in the form of pass-fail with the amount of credit proportional to the amount of work done; everything usually gets done since anything not completed by a deadline receives an \F.\ We are not sure if there is any viable solution that would work at Union, but we feel that the situation of paying students comes about for many clubs on c~pus and must be openly discussed. We also 'See a need for finding a method.to increase the quality of the Garnet to the level it should be at our college. The Garnet Editor-in-chief and staff

CONCORDIENSIS, May 24, 1984 Page 11 LETTERS A Democratic Process : ~~=-------~--~~~~~~~---------- Questions Answered To the Editor: the available spaces for the 1985 term abroad to Greece were automatically given to a list of \preferred students.\ Students who are in the six-year-med progr~, those who are going to be semors or those who are in t~e engineering program were given preference over all other students. This happened even though we were told ''because of the heavy competition this year, a student's cumulative index will be a major porti<Jn of the decision.\ I am not an engineer, nor a six-year-med student, nor wiU I be a senior· next year. The problem is that many other students have \conflicts\ which are keeping t~em from going at any other time. As a freshman. it was impossible to go and as a senior, I will have a thesis to prepare. Preparing a thesis over a split fall-spring term is not cmly difficult but also a Recently an article appeared in the Concordiensis about \Opportunities for International Education.\ The article stated f;low easy it was for Union students to study abroad; \Even engineering students, whe are on a very tight schedule, can take a term abroad program, if they plan for it ahead of time.\ I feel that this program is one of the best in the country. It is true that we f;lave more opportunities than most college students to study abroad. Unfortunately, because I was not an engineer applying t@ the program, there was little chance of my getting into the Greece term abroad program in my Junior year. Although we were not told ahead of time, it seems that · the program is biased towards engineering majors. Almost two-thirds of distinct disadvantage. I do believe that due to their rigid schedule, Engineers should have some special con- sideration. The permissiveness, however, that is being show.n to them is above and beyond what I consider \fair play.\ An engineering student with a G.P.A. of under 2.5 was ac· cepted over students with cumulative indices well over 3.0 including a physics major with a 3.4 average. If this is what the Union College administration calls a \democratic process,\ then I for one will not be ex- pecting to spend a term abroad during my time at Union College. As a solution, I propose a lottery system similar to the hausing lottery. That way, a term abroad is open to all. A Frustrated Sophomore Response From Terms Abroad To the Editor: I appreciate \A Frustrated Sophomore's\ consideration in allowing me to see his or her letter in time to respond to it. And, I apreciate the person's sense of frustration, which is shared with many other people, not only those who hoped to go to Greece, hut on other over- subscribed programs as well. It will not be clear until next year if this year's situation in Greece (over 80 applicants for 30 positions) was a fluke due to our especially lengthy Winter this year, or if it is a trend that will continue. Two things,howev- er are clear. Students wh() are willing to consider one and only one program may find them- selves closed out, no matter what system of selection is used. And, if we continue to have large numbers of students who fall into a \special'' category, then indeed the selection process is not working fairly and a new one needs to be devised. The idea of a lottery is an interesting one, although I am not sure if the 3.4 physics major, who would have been accepted in a more normal year, would agree. What would be most helpful to the program would be for \A Frustrated Sophomore\ to come forward and explaih to me how the lottery would work. Might I use this opportunity to mentian that there is still space available in the Israel program for next winter. Interested people should apply im· mediately. Sincerely yours, William W. Thomas Director of Terms Abroad Clambake. A Success Despite Theft To the Editor: On the night before Sigma Chi's annual clambake some perverted individuals broke into the Girling Center and stole $1200 worth of clams. The money paid for these clams was to go toward a local charity. We would like to extend our apologies to those who paid for clams, but were unablE to receive them. We are happy to report that despite this theft the clambake was a success. A good time was had by all and more importantly we were still able to donate money to a local charity. Many thanks to all who attended and we look forward to seeing you there next year. Sincerely, The Brothers of Sigma Chi J.V. Recognition Requested 'To the Editor: I am writing this letter with respect to the recognition (or more accurately non· ~ec?gnition) given to Union's JUmor varsity teams. These ~earns practice and compete JUSt as rigorously as their varsity counterparts-however, they are not honored at the sports banquet, nor are they given any type of award. Granted, the skill level of the J.V. team is not equal to that of varsity, yet their enthusiasm and competitiveness is on the same par. Next year, when handing out awards and making invitations to the banquet, I sincerely hope the athletic administration will at least consider the J. V. squads and keep in mind the J.V's invaluability as a building block for future varsity teams. A frustratedJ.V. player Ethics Course Praised To the Editor: I consider myself privileged to have had the chance to take Professor Griggs' Ethics and Professionalism course. This cl~ss opened my eyes (and rnmd) to what professionalism and ethics are to the aspiring engineer. I feel that it is a shame that my fellow low- e: classmates will no longer be given this opportunity, not only for the students themselves but for society as a whole. ' Studies have indicated that graduating engineers who have not been exposed to ethics and professionalism during their undergraduate education are grossly deficient in this area. They tend not to relate to what is in the best interests of the public, but rather towards egoism. The administration here at Union seems to be of the opinion that engineering ethics should be taught through the philosophy department. I would have no qualms about this if the philosophy department had on its staff an experienced engineer to teach this course. It is ludicrous for the ad- ministration to stop a professor from teaching a subject that he- she feels is important because this course falls outside of their department, especially when these courses are not offered by the other departments. How then are we to be exposed to this subject matter? John C. DeMis Classof'84 Free Film To Be Shown To the Editor: support, the Film Collllilittee will be presenting free showings The 1983..a4 academic year of the Academy Award winning has been the most successful film \Tern .s of Endearment,\ o~e yet for the Union College on Friday, June 1 and Saturday, Film Committee, with over June 2 at 7:30 and 10 p.m. In 19,000 happy customers. In order to prevent overcrawding, appreciation to the campus free tickets will be available at community for their enormous the Carnegie Hall Box Office one hour before each show time (two tickets per person, maximum). We hope you enjoy the show. Thaaat's all folks!! The Union College Film Committee This is the last issue of Concordiensis for the year. Publication will resume in the fall. To the Editor: There seems to be a few questions circulating around campus concerning the newest addition to the Dutch HoNow. Those questions are concerning the installation of the 10 ft. Video screen. A. What is it? B. What is it for? c. Why? D. Who paid for it? E. What are we going to do with it? The question of what it is can be explained in this manner: The system consists of three pieces: 1. 10 ft. ceiling mount screen. 2. Novabeam ceiling mount monitor (projector) 3. VHS Video player and receiver What is it for? Using this equipment we are able to view the five local television stations, channels 6, 10, 17, 13 and 23 and Video cassettes. We are presently looking into a com- pany that rents cassettes and covers all copyright laws. Why? It was felt that Union College Campus needed a place where the entire campus community can come and relax and be entertained without going to a lot of ex::pense. The purchase of this equipment was felt to be an investment rather than a direct expense. The cost of the live entertainment is quite expensive, wbich limits the nwnber of engagements that can be booked. The equipment makes it possible to have entertainment every night on which the Dutch Hollow is open. Entertainment means videos, sporting events, news and television shows. Come next fall when Union College's football team participates in the championship game, which is televised, we'll be all set. Who financed the purchase? The system was jointly financed through Union College Food Service, Student Forum, Social Committee and Concert Committee with the approval of the administration. Student Forum approval is pending. What are we going to use it for? For the enjoyment of the Union College Campus Com- munity. Gary Salerno Manager, The Dutch Hollow Reevaluation Urged To the Editor: We urge the Administration to reconsider the proposed parking lot between Wells House and McKean (Kappa Alpha Society) House. We feel that with the proposed new lot next to Garis Field and the current excess parking behind Richmond there is more than ample parking for a \walking campus.\ In addition we urge the Administration to recon· sider the placing of the proposed new road in or next to Jackson Gardens since this road will cause both noise and air pollution detracting from the natural beauty of the gar- dens. For those who agree with us we hope you will stop by Car- negie today to sign a petition letting your views be heard. Student Alliance Peter Hutchison '86 Shawne McCord'85 Mike F'actor '84 Representing the Environmental Help Out The Garnet To the Editor: The yearbook staff is down to an all-time low of three members. As these few members attempt to produce a yearbook for the entire college community the result is an exhausted staff doing the best they can, but having trouble arriving with a quality book. Whose responsibility is the yearbook? The Union College yearbook, entitled the Garnet, represents a year at Union College. A poor quality year- book represents both a poor representation of the year and also a lack of caring from the college community concerning this representation. Much of the blame for the results of the yearbook are usually attributed to the \apathetic\ students. Yet why should a student feel that s-he should spend long hours in a darkroom when there are many off-campus organizations that can readily be paid to do such work? Getting the finances to pay these off-campus workers is easily accomplished. Yet to get a fraction of this amount of money to pay students to do the same work for their own college is impossible. There is no logic in the reasoning that the yearbook may pay outside contractors but may not pay students a fraction of this for the same work. Yet there is a logical argument against paying students: students should want to work for their school by reason of their dedication. Although this makes sense, the results have not come true. The lack of quality in past year- books as well as the coming Garnet stems from the lack of staff. Is there a solution to this dilemma? Although each school varies, it is helpful to analyze their situation. Some schools pay the editors of the yearbook. Others, including SUNY at Albany, have a photo service run by students. This service supplies all of the photography needs of the school. At Union this would include the needs of the Garnet, Concordiensis, Freshman Record and some of the needs of the school's publication office in Lamont House. This would keep all the work done on the campus, reduce the cost, maintain or increase the quality, as well as eliminate the duplication of photography assignments. A third method used at other schools, sometimes in addition to paying students, is giving them course credit. Although this is normally in the form of pass-fail with the amount of credit proportional to the amount of work done; everything usually gets done since anything not completed by a deadline receives an \F.\ We are not sure if there is any viable solution that would work at Union, but we feel that the situation of paying students comes about for many clubs on campus and must be openly discussed. We also see a need for finding a method to increase the quality of the Garnet to the level it should be at our college. The Garnet Editor-in-Chief and staff

Page 12 CONCORDIENSif,: May 24, 1984 -I.E.F. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal' Education Foundation in two categories--st.udent-tnltlated research profects a:ad 'educat·lonally inncvat.lve proiects' ... falls on Wednesday, M_ay 30. Please specify in your applicat·ions the time for wh·ich funds are being requ~sted. Pro.posals for student-initiatecl research proiect~ m·ust' ·have the written approved of Cl faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the protect. T·he proposals should be subm-itted to the Dean's Office (S 100, · Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Members of the College community who have· \educationaUy innovative\ proposals shoul·d submit them to the same office on forms available there. Guidelines re I.E.F·. are availa,ble at Dean's offi.ce .• Inquiries should be directed to Dr.. Ilene Kaplan, Assistant Dean of Faculty. First Annual Air Band C:o.ntest Friday afternoon, May 25 on West Beach in_ coni unction with the Student Band Concert. 1 'Show how untalented you really are!'' Get your band together and enter. ANYTHING GOES. If you wish to enter or .if you have any questions, call Mike Klein at 381-9540 or drop a note with your name and phone number to Box 579 . ACT NOW! The more acts we have the better WEE 1{. E N D S to escape from the other five .. $2· ·5· .. _per · _··· . night Relax by ourhealthdub with-indoor pool a.nd exercise · room. For complete details, give us a caB. Then escape · to our Ramada- where we've got a new wotld for you. RAMADA® INN 450 Nott Street, SCHENECTADY, NY (518) 370-7151 - Student Workers Needed for ReUnion Weekend June8&9 ' Students who would like to work during ReUnion Weekend (June 8 and 9), please stop by the Alumni . · . Office or call Mary at 6168 by Friday, May 18. ReUnion workers will 'be needed at the following eventsi Registra·tion at ·lamont House, Minerva's Footrace, Junior ReUnion, Alumni Parade, Picnic, Gala-Fest and more. A mandatory meeting of all - student workers wi U be held on Tuesday, May 29 at 4:30 p.m. in the Banquet Room. WRUC- 89.7 FM Presents Don't Miss: .. The Final Sports Line for 1983-84 Wednesday- 11 p.m~-Midnite Calland Win ~ . o. 0 Q 370-6151 or 370-6154 r···wiNG.WAli01\f! I ~-..;: (iGJ I !.\'.i~>: ·•• l M. \\'.- I •. ·. ~ ~y• I ~ ·:~· ....... ~ _ ··~1{!- ~ .. ~ ... :. 827 McClellan Street I !\ . .J. ·· ~ Schenectady I ~ 1.11 ...1 II. ,._.,... . lufblo Style . il 'C:blcken wtngs I Monday-Thursday 11am-1am I 1.11 1 Friday-Sa·turday 11ani-2:00am I 1 Sunday 12pm-12am. I z 1 orde;;;;.hOi(; 4 Eat m 1 O ! Buy 20or More Wi~gs a~d-·--~~ 1 . Get 10 f:REE . I •••••I Good thru May 30th except Wed. nights ••••• ' . .This is the last weekend Pla.v runs M-ay 24, 26 at_ 8 p.m. and May 25 at 7 p.m. Get tickets at Nott Memorial f.rom 1:30-5:30 p.m. daily All seats $2.50 To .theE' PaulE piece (T publishec co .. cordi aptly en1 Way ItS Have B· article a points: terrorisn prevalen~ during 1 Israel's then; a: students Maksoud college, 1 presenta1 \bigotec fashion~ the caus~ seeks to 1 recountin similar t period dt created. because: history i: anything at Union book. It is of the fac· truth ar makes r Edwards . pushing : Ed ware 1930's an• Begin w; dergroun dedicated immigra Palestine. innocent. Irgun wa: modern I he contin alone tool nocent Ar To the Ed This ed response comment;: last wee cordiensi mentary~ half-truth~ most de-J overtones. categoric~ points. Edward demonstr;: Maksoud, This is to· one demt claim to otherwise shape, or stra,tors n to stifle merely att imlignatio1 Anothe[ Edwards governme1 human ri~ to, ifnotst P.L.o~ Ti ridiculous vicious lie . is usually - Sb - Ra - Ch - Co Hale 1 event• Wind do at carnE

CONCORDIENSJS, May 24, 1984 P(lge 13 \ ' LETTERS Commentary Rebutted CDC Still. An Issue To .theEditor: Paul Edwards• eommentary piec~ (Te~ng It Like _It Is), published IIi the May 17 Issue of Col\cordiensis, would be more aptly entitled \Telling It The Way It Should Be\ or \Should Have Been.\ Mt. Edwards' article attempts to make two points: one, that Jewish terrorism was and has been as prevalent as Arab terrorism during the period prior to Israel's formation and .since then; and two, that those students who protested Clovis Maksoud's lecture here at the college, by l~aving during his presentation,. were acting in .a · \bigoted and close-minded fashion which is detrimental to the cause of peace.\ Edwards seeks to make his first point by recounting something vaguely similar to the .history of the period during which Israel was created. I say vaguely similar because Edward's rendition of history is very dllferent from anything I've been taught here at Union or read in any text- book. It is his misrepresentation of the facts, his manipulation of truth and half-truth which makes me wonder whether Edwards is misinformed or _ pushing some hidden agenda. Edwards states: ''In the late 1930's and 1940's, (Menachem) Begin was head of the un- derground Irgun, a group dedicated to supporting illegal immigration of Jews into Palestine. The terrorization of innocent Arab villagers by the Irgun was strikingly similar to modern PLO atrocities. Later he continues, \one massacre alone took the lives of 254 in- nocent Arab men, women, and children.'' While it is true that the lrgun was dedicated to the smuggling of Jews into Palestine in the late 30's and 40's, if .Paul knew his history lle would know that this was precisely the time that Hitler was carrying out the annihilation of the Jewish popul:;~tion of Europe. The British White Paper of !939 had severely curtailed the im- migration of Jews into Palestine and it was in that context that the lrgun was trying to smuggle Jews into the area, to save their lives. Perhaps; from the way Edwards seems to abhor this illegal immigration, he would like to argue that facing the alternative nothing should have been done. Even to compare the tactics of the PLO and those of the Irgun is to misrepresent the truth. ~The truth of the matter is that the Irgun was dedicated to ending the British military occupation of Palestine. Attacks against British military installations, it was hoped, would expedite a British with- drawal. Edwards, like most anti-Israel propagandists over the years have, points out the isolated incident at Deir Yassin as evidence of Jewish terrorism against Arab civilians. While this incident cannot be con- doned, it stands, as I said, as an isolated incident in the past. Comparing this one unfortunate episode with the scores of attacks perpetrated by the PLO against Jewish civilians over the years, most recently on a bus in Tel Aviv just a month ago, is absurd. - Mr. Edwards states that \both government backed and independent Israeli groups TotheEditor: continue this terror today exemplified by the placing of As someone who has only bombs on buses carrying in- been· an onlooker to the current nocent Palestinians by Israeli discussion on these pages in strong arm froups last month.\ recent weeks as to the purpose However, what he .fails to state of Union's Career Development isthat it was the Israeli army Center (CDC), I feel it is now which discovered the pl 0 t, time, to give what I believe to be averting the potential tragedy. a more balanced and objective He also forgot to mention that 20- . viewpoint than some of those Israeli Jews were arrested in presented in recent weeks. connection with the incident. Although we may never know Furthermore, all officials with why the first two letters, were the government of Israel and left unsigned, it may very Jews all over the world possibly be the same reason I renounced the act as deplorable choose to do s<r-since the issue and further measures are being here is the CDC, I do .not wish taken to avert similar activity_ for any attention to be diverted by other fanatics. The bottom to myself. Almost any student line is that Israel will not could have written the following tolerate Jewish terrorism letter, and that is the im· against Arabs any more than it pression I wish to give. will tolerate Arab terrorism First of all,. after checking on against Jews. On the other the number of recruiters hand, the various factions of _the corning here this year it seems PLO, including those still as though the original letter controlled by so-called three weeks ago that set off this \moderate•f Yassir Arafat, all dialogue was far more correct rush totake credit when a bomb than CDC Director Joanne exploses on a bus in Jerusalem Tobiessen's response to it last or gunmen run rampant w·eek. I have checked the through an Israeli city. original recruiting lists in the There are several other such handout \Career Development misrepresentations and News for Seniors\ and only 12 mistruths in Mr. Edwards' ar- .. percent (11 out of 89) of the ticle; only time and space companies coming to Union this preclude my addressing them. I year were looking for Liberal suggest, Mr, Edwards that Arts graduates as opposed to before you attempt to discredit the \almost one-third\ figure Israel or those students who that Ms. Tobiessen cited. seek to protest against a Unfortunately, I cannot check speaker with an agenda similar on her claim since she fails to to your own, that you take a give any specific numbers or good course on Middle East soqrces or even a breakdown of history and at least learn to do it what types of companies these intelligently. Ignorance, too, is were-all of which is contained one of the greatest impediments' in one of the previous letters to to peace. wbich she is responding. • Respectfully, Robert.H. Bassin range of programs continues to be offered~ I do not know if the five students who attended the workshop (cited in the letter three weeks ago) is a typical indication of support for them, but It does seem as if by staying away students are giving a definite message to those running these CDC events. One constructive project I would very much like to see the CDC take on in the near future is research into the amount of student support for the entire range of services they currently provide in what Ms. Tobiessen refers to as its \total program.\ For example, I'm sure the entire campus community would be interested to know the answers to questions such as: How many stUdents actually read and pay attention to the \On the Career Front\ articles that Career Assistants are paid by the CDC to write weekly for Concordiensis? How many read the .cnc Newsletter that is. periodically mass-mailed to all students? How many actually use Union's extensive alumni network or go on \in- formational interviews''? How many attend the various workshops and panel discussions? How strong is the desire for more recruiting? Comments. Questioned Although a few companies of all types might have been added since the oi:iginal recrUiting lists were distributed at the beginning of fall and winter terms, I doubt if these would amount to any significant percentage increase for the Liberal Arts student. Finally, if there was one part of Ms. Tobiessen's letter that was most disturbing it is the following line, \We are now seeking to expand this part of our ( recuriting) program.\ Admitting that it has to be expanded is also an admittance that the current program is inadequate to meet student needs. What I wonder is why this effort at expansion did not begin when Ms. Tobiessen was originally hired just over one year ago. Seeking out recruiters now is not going to help those in the Class. of '84 who will be graduating in a few weeks and whose interviewing experience through the CDC is primarily limited to \mock\ interviews, interview workshops, and videotapes of strangers during interviews. Although it is certainly not the responsibility of the CDC to get every student who comes to them a job, it is not asking too much that they be provided with the same op- portunities and advantages as those attending similar schools. We will all wait eagerly to see what the CDC has in store for the Class of '85. To the Editor: This editorial is written in response to Paul Edward's commentary that appeared in last week's igsue of Con• cordiensis. Edwards' com- mentary was not only filled with half-truths and innuendo, bqt it most definitely had racist overtones. My intent is to categorically refute Edwards' points. Edwards accuses the demonstrators against Clovis Maksoud as being ethocentric. This is totally unfounded. Not one demonstrator ever laid claim to being superior or otherwise, in any manner, shape, or form. The demon- strators never once attempted to stifle Mr. Maksoud, they merely attempted to voice their iml.ignation over his presence. Another contention of Edwards is that the I-sraeli government has been guilty of human rights violations equal to, if not surpassing those of the P.L.o~ This is not only a ridiculous statement, it is a yicious lie •• This type o£ rhetoric Is usually reserved for PLO sympathizers. So if the shoe fits . . . ! The Israeli government is the only Middle Eastern country that practices human rights ·that exist in Western nations. Edwards' lack of in-depth knowledge is. quite vast. While pointing out that the Irgun was dedicated to supporting illegal immigration of Jews into Palestine, he failed to point out that this group was dedicated to this principle because at that time the British were turning away survivors of Hitler's Holocaust. Perhaps one of the most ridiculous of Edwards' com- ments was his quoting of Mr. Weitz, whose comments were made 44 years ago. Good job Paul, but don't you think you could .have gotten a more current quote? Edwards' racist thinking aUows for him to justify such perverse thoughts. The Israeli government has never once supported Israeli group~ of terrorists to conduct actions against Palestinians. In fact., they have recently broken up an independant group that were proponents of vi~lence against Arabs before they had a chance to operate. Edwards ·accuses Israel· of having walked out on peace talks. Let me ask a simple question, WHEN? Israel so desperately wants peace with its Arab neighbors that it gave back land which accounted for more than half its size (Sinai.) All this in the name of PEACE. Edwards is constantly referring to the word Zionism as · if it were some sort of evil' word. Zionism by definition is a theory, plan, or movement for setting up a Jewish nation in Pale$tine. Zionism is something very near and dear to all Jews. It reaffirms our belief in our homeland. Zionism doesn!t stand for racism contrary to PLO rhetoric. The .people of Israel don't support racism in any form. It's a shame that the PLO is based on racism. So Paul, I guess I've done it. I've countered everyone of your lies with the truth. You pur- ported to \tell it like itis\ but it was I who ''told it like it really is\! Jason Oshins '87 At Scenic West Beach Fri.day, May 25, 1984 - Six foot ICJng super special sub sandwiches - Rare roast beef torpedoes - Chilled .saJads free to meal card holders - Cold dmtks upon presentation .of valid .ID and mecil card, or $3 cash Hale House Dining Hall and West College Dioing Hall will be closed in the event of good weather; West will be open if it rains. Wind down frorri camp Union with our Luau rescheduled for Monday, May 28 with hors d'oeuvres at Carnegie ·Plaza and fabulous. feast at Old Chapel. west Will be closed Molt day night. As for the \information session\ of which Ms. Tobiessen speaks, seniors I have talked to maintain that they were not made aware of the direct job possibilities that could result from such meetings. I am sure that if the CDC were to make more people aware of thiS fact the attendance would be better. As for recruiting itself, this is the one part of Ms. Tobiessen's letter that does not seem to niake any sense-the idea that it takes \several years of courting a company before it will invest in on-campus recruiting.\ I simply do not believenorwill I accept the fact that it is all that difficult to get companies looking for Liberal Arts majors to recruit at Union. But once again Ms. \Tobiessen fails to offer any specifics regarding the trips she did take this year to ''court'' companies. The development of career goals is defmitely a positive objective for the CDC to try to achieve. However, the only disturbing aspect of this is that the demand for such services is questionable and yet a full Name Withheld P.S. By the way, Ms. Horak failed to mention in her letter last week praising the CDC that she will soon begin work at an entry-level position at IBM- Albany, which she obtained by doing no more than submitting a resume and .interviewing with them-through which the CDC was not in any way involved. Therefore, it is quite easy for her to both criticize ,others who have yet to find employment as well as defend the CDC without offering any facts to back up her claims. I . Open Air Performance by the I Garnet Quint.et Laura • Sarah • Stefanie I rene • David Thursdays, May 24 & 31 at 3':30 on Library Plaza

Page 14 ~ .. C'ONCVRDlhNSI~: Ma)' 14, 1984 FRIDAY- 4:00-7:00 p.m. 5:00~6:30 p.m. Campus Band P-erformance&_ 1st An,nual Air Band Contest and, of course, BEER! Food Service Sponsors: Six-foot long subs at Scenic West Be.ach *roast beef subs w/col:d cuts* ·*chilled salads* *cold drinks* Free for meal card holders (with card and I D) $3.00 for a II others 8:30 p.m.-1 :30 a.m. The Film Committee presents: ''A NIGHT OF FANTASY\ *Yellow Submar-ine* *Wizard of Oz* *The Rocky· Horror Picture Show* *BEER!*

11 :00-2:00 p •. m. 5:00-7:00 p.m. 8:00-11 :00 .p.m. · Comedians in Library P.faza . -3 Albany comedians.- will entertain you as you relax after the afternoon PLUS Volleyball, Mille·rball, Frisbee and· Tug-of-War all day! RD ' THE CONCERT • 1-topia • Urban Blight .• The Band Lu_nch Barbeque (must have·ticket) • 2 hamburgers & 2 hot dsgs • chips, salad • beverages Dinner barbeque (must have ticket) . • 1 /2 broiled chicken • corn on the cob • baked potato • cole slaw • bev.erages Tickets can be purchased in Carnegie for non-meal card holders during the afternoon for $5.00 (2-part ticket for both lunch and dinner) and for meal card holders at meals in Hale and West for 2 punches. DANKO.HELM,MANUEL,HUDSON

Page 16 CONCORDIEWSJS, May 24, 1984 CAMPUS NEWs·· SCHOLARSHiPS There will be an in- formational meeting ·for all Juniors interested in applying for a $10,000 Thomas J. Watson Travelling Fellowshi:p on Thursday, May 24 at 8:00 p.m. in Conference Room A of Carnegie HalL The meeting will cover the appUcation procedure, deadlines, and a discussion of· past winning proposals. If you cam1ot attend this meeting, but would like more information about the Watson, contact Doug Klei.Q in the Economics Department. I.E.F. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foun- - dation in two categories-- student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ falls on Wednesday, May 30. This round will primarily fund projects for the next academic year. A limited amount of ~unds are available, however, for projects completed this past Spring. Please specify in your ap- plications the time for which funds are being requested. Proposals for student- initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's Office (8100, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have ''educationally innovative'' proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Guidelines with respect to th~ 1.E.F .• are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries -should be directed to Dr. llene M. Kaplan,. Associate Dean of Faculty. SPEAKERS Administrative and Engineering Systems Colloquim presents.: James Benson, Vice President of Marketing, Thomas J. Lipton Company, speaking on \New . Product Development and Launching: The Cup-A-Soup Case History'' May 24, 3:45-5:00 in Bailey Hall, Room 312. May 24: Presentation on Pornography, part of the Evening Branch of the Women's Alliance of the First Unitarian Church as part of their Violence Against Women Program. Schenectady YWCA, 44 Washington Ave., Thursday, 7 :30 p.m. For more information call Anne Doonnelly at 382-3290 (work) or 372-5573 (home). May 31: Feminization of Poverty, speaker-Mabel Lean. Sponsored by the Evening Branch of the Women's Alliance of the Unitarian Church, 1221 Wendell Ave. Thursday, 6:15 p.m., Dinner and Program $4.50; Program only $1.00 (7:45). Call Deanne Docteur for more information including child care. The coalition against apar- theid and racism is sponsoring an evening called Focus on South Africa on Friday, May 25 at 7:30 p.m. at the Wilborn Temple Church, 121 Jay St. in Albany. Guest speaker will be Mr. David Ndaba, Administrative Secretary of the African · National Congress Observer Mission to the United .(· l Nations. The public is invited . . . for more information call 489-1767. HELP WANTED General Telephone Co., Clifton Park, N.Y. 1:2065 (located on Rt. 146)-Mr. Coman 383·0843. P~T to start im- mediately-rate of pay to be discussed-designing tel~phone circuitry and related products. Attention UnionCollege Work Study students~GHUC Teaching Assistant positions · are available for Fall Term 1984. Any interested applicants please sign up .for an interview in the Philosophy Department Office. (Humanities Room 215}. Please note: These positions are only open to Work Study students. If anyone is planning on being on Campus June 8 and 9 for ReUnion-Commencement Weekend, the Alumni Office needs student workers to help with various events. (Pay will be $3.35 per hour.) Please call us at 6168 if you would like to work_ CLASSJHEDS For sale for the Dorm Room: Full (double) size mattress-7 mo. old, good condition- clean-$40 AND! ! Carpet-gold color, good condition, 7 ft. by 6 ft.'-$10-Call 6833 after 7 p.m. Queen size mattress, box spring, and metal frame;· KLH stereo with FM radio and two speakers; Sony color TV -all in good shape, all cheap. Call Eileen (days) 370-6112, (evenings) 346-2943. Typing done for stud~nts. · Please ·contact 3•6p5i04 Niskayuna area Please .contact 355•3239 Knows medical terminology Please contact 37-7-4215 Scotia area. Typing-Papers typed with professional fesults .. by executive secretary. Fast service and accurate proofreading at $1 per page. Call Judy 399-3383. CAR STEREO FOR SALE. Blaupunkt 20002 AM~FM-m Cassette $150.00. Jensen· car speakers, co-axil, 25 watts per side $30. Call Roberta at 374- 8769. FOR SALE: 1970 Buick Skylark-Silver only 49,000 miles! ! AM-FM Cas:;;ette, air conditioned, power steering and brakes, great engine, runs well, powerful. Asking $950. Call 370- 6833 after 7. NEEDED Back-pack for travel m Europe. Call Lisa-Lori at 6918. The Film Committee Presents: Terms of Endearment~Fri. & Sat. June 1 & 2-7:30 and 10. SS016-FREE!.!!!! Free tickets available 1 hour per showtime maximum 2 tickets per· person. · Friday, May 25, Camp Union! \A Night of Fantasy, \Yellow Submarine\ (8:30) \The Wizard of Oz (10:00), \The Rocky Horror Picture Show\ (12:00). Tuesday, May 29, '~Tbe IQng and I'' at 7:30 and 10:00, Free. We$e$day, May 30 \M H'; at 7, 9, and 11. PERSONALS. My BUbboo: Lucky I'll have the little .guy to keep me c.om. pany next fall 'cause I'll miss you lots! I love you and I'll be keeping count.--the Wing Ding Tangoer Jodi, Thanks for being. such , a wonderfUl friend\ Have a great time .tonight. Sorry I can't be there. Happy Birthday. Love, Pips Typ,ing Service· 'bY Cheryl 399- 7614 75~ per page The Professional Moving And Storage Company Created Witb Students l.n Mind Door to Door Moving Summer Stor.age • Service anywhere available to in the· United States . • Specializing· in service to the Boston and Ne~ York Metropolitan regions. • Home from school in the spring, back to school in the fall. • ASM wHI pick up your belongings at your .room- or apartment, store ·them for the summer and return them to your new residence upon . your return i.n the fa-11. American Student Moving, Inc . Fully lnsur~d Boxes AVailable * Accept N.o Less * Pay No f\.l\ore . in Albany 434-6655 or 1-800~448-7878 - - P1 -. 01 stay WVI jJ GRi gett: roUE rene oflc Dt Susi HAl THI B< MY1 long Mid DE You' has L.· a par and time Ba year rnan. tougl can 1 Bub He every have bette nK. NO GUP the o Lol reall (well allre year! Q.ave1 your Sm Brigc: twenl butg1 Part: \pals FU< miss and 1 buttoJ when and 1 Alwa1 sister P.S eat a Du~ Reme be a 1 Sca1 \stucl alway you .. .J De a

CONCORDIENSJS, May 24, 1984 Page17 .. : .. a h •• PERSONALS Dearest J.P.Q. Thanks for staying by my ::;ide. I love you . U>ve, A.M.C. uear HlPNose•-HAPPY GRADUATION, Dr is it? I'm getting psyched for my BIG roller coaster ride and our rendezvous in Stockholm. Lots of love from Noodle! Dear Connie-Sue, Cliff, and Susie (May 24, 25 and 26 )- HAPPY HAPPY BIR- TllDA YS! ! ! Love, Krissy Barbaloot ..... Can't wait to MYM, ML, and MYM all week long ..... I luv you mini! love, Mickey Deidre, Good luck next year! You'll do great-from one who has confidence in you--L. L.~Even though we'll be apart I'll still be thinking of you and missing you-time after time ... Baby- Thanks for two great years. I look forward to many, many more. It's going to be a tough next year, but if anyone can get through it., we can. ILY. Bub Hey kid! Thank you for everything.l don'tthink we could have found each other at a better time! Remember, it's O.K. to cry, and if all else fails, NO ONE can resist THE GUPPY! Love, and a hig hug, the other kid Lor, We actually made it!! I really loved being roomies (well, most of the time!) We're allreally gonna miss ya next year! -Ya know, you still qaven't seen Rob! Love you- your roomie Smith House Birthday Brigade-Have three fantastic twentieths! ! Tiple now to party but good! -Love, Smith House Partying Committee (alias \pals\). Fuckhorn Leghorn, I will miss you! The fucking shipdog and Bulgarian blankets (with buttons! ) 'Will live forever. Call whenever you are \in the pub\ and need legal counsel. Love Always, your Rumanian little sister. \' P.S. Where'd you learn how to eat a banana????! Dustin, (I mean Justin), Remember a Harlot will never be a used car! Love, Sheena Scarlett-I'm so glad I· got \stuck\ with you; Good luck always-my thoughts are with you ... Love, Snow Wbite . . Dear SLG' s, It hasn't been the easiest :rear ,but Olll\ friendships r~main ·pr~cious. I love you: guys, KSLG 213's-1t's been 4 great years. Here'sto livingtogether again- love, 1/3. ABA- I {finally got around to· sending you a personal. Here's to a great summer together and the times to come ... Ilove you! To Alex, Sue, Gail, etc.-You did a gr-eat job and we're all proud of y!Ju, TFSF-rt's been a great four years. · LIS--,I'm. going to miss you. very much. Don't make me cry. CAW-F()W years and you're still the balls; Love, .. Me ZAGA~I wish I had more time to spe!ldhere with you; Do the best yoa can without me for a while. Love, 10-0 Slimy-Good 'luck at PCOM. Maybe I'U even pay you a visit or two. Love, YR Mintchell., I'm so glad we're friends. I'm so psyched for this summer. Love, Alissa To the future residents of 700 South-Get set for a great year! Love Karen Your last one . . . Let's remember t() pretend it's Sunday before it's too late~ I'm going to miss. you ALOT. . . Thanks-for. everything. Love ya. ------------------ frustrated: U. C.B.B. T~S. strikes.again ... To all our buddies in West: \So 'now befDre we end, and then begin., we'll drink a toast to how it's been •.. I've loved these days\ Weloveyou ... FFancie and Laurie UJ- Alright, who really smokes ?-CI' J G.J.K. and ·Ill: Thanks • . . You made it all worthwhile. -A. 700 Southers: It's been !lil amazing year! I'll miss ~ach and every one of ,you! loveGreavious To my one and only, Never again will I find someone like you-my friend, my sister, my immature one-, we'll always keep in touch- graduation is really com- mencemeat. 1 don't think my eyes will hurt anymore either. Roz, Rosie, Susie- In regards to our friendship: It's better late than never! Loveya,K Bob and Leon, We hope you enjoy your folll\ years at Union as much as we have. Try not to miss us next year too much, because we'll miss you! love big sises, Karen and Ros To our 26 House Guest:!!, you owe US • .. 2 doz. eggs 3 doz. bagels; 1 lb. of bacon 1 roll of t. p. ~The Brothel- To my noodle--Baked Ziti- You're really ::;omething special! I love you for always! ! ! NESS-It's been fun, but I hear it gets even better. Love, 10-0. Sue Bit-I'm a likin' that paddle! ~finally!) RMG-- CONGRATULATIONS! 1 knew you could do it: I'm S() proud of you. \Ganoog\ studying-enjoy-It's play time now until July 28. I'll always love you ILYM. SMN To all Tri Delta Seniors- A fond so long, but never good-bye; Take care and best of luek in all your endeavors. Love always, Noogie Dear Kevin, History classes just won't ·be the .same without you-Best of luck in Connecticut! I'm told the state has great golf courses. Enjoy! GLR FF~ Q,L,S, BUM. -L.S. Roommate: 228. Miller-Bud? Street signs, CVS naturals, is anything sacred? Pledge?! t- 2-3 diet~ boxers, callone throat. Conn- typical. I? Can you believe we survived living together? -Let's try again sometime soon. Don, Jeff, Ira, Barry, Jamie, Q-unit, Bri-an J{., Sob R, Bob V2, Klingster, Lindquist, Klumpper, Pete, Tedder, Ob, Gordon, Jess, Bill, Ken- Thanks for the memories ... - T-woman and Biff_. Jeffrey-You can't leave Union without getting one. Now you can leave. \\\\\T. Congratulations Regan, Sean, Susan, Dave, and Minnie on your Confirmation! Love, The Delta Gamma's annual OCEAN PARTY Friday 3:30·? (at DG behind the Fieldhouse) Sea!Jreezes CMAPE Codders Blue Whales CAMPUS.NEWS ·Newman Club LS, Do roommates really share everything? -FF. Lau, we got a late start, but that didtl't .stop us. Remember 2-3 CVS runs, lat~nite studying and partying. Great times. to come. Road trips to Ct. and L.L all summer long. Love you, Francie SLIP: That gift really was perfect. Thanx again! Scollowitz: I love you! I'm going to miss you 3 so much! Graduation is almost here, but we still have 2 more weeks to play, so let's not waste them! Love you, one fourth. To my favorite roomates: You guys are terrific. Thanx for taking me in! Love, Your Fifth. Wong: I just wanted to say \ID\ and that \I MISS YOU!\ Love, Y F Ex Stump-Unfortunately, there is a loaf in the oven. -sharon J u 1i e , Donn a , Drew , Matt, Frank, Pat, Scott, Heidi, Pete, Debbie, Bonnie, Lynn, Paul, Doug, Diane, and everyone else of Concordy who I have had a close encounter: thanks for putting up with me and making my stay here a memorable one. , Much appreciation to the coaches, athletes, and George Cuttita for their support and privilege of being close to Union sports. Smile, the camera never blinks, Robert Tang Dear Matt, how come they let some kiss ass give the speech at graduation? Signed a person that is tired of the same people getting everything. ROSS IS WHIPPED! ! ! ! ! ! SEAVEY IS JEALOUS! ! ! ! ! ! SIEGEL IS A WANKER, SIEGEL IS A W ANKER, AH- AH-AH-AH AH-AH-AH-AH! NO SNATCH DURING POOL SEASON!! HE MAY BE A RAT, BUT HE'S THE ONLY ONE WE'VE .GOT!! t · WHO IS THE EX-FINANCE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN? AND WHY DOES HE STILL HAVE HIS NO:S E IN EVERYONE'S BUSINESS? KANUSHER: THESIS: ROGET: THESAURUS Hey Larry, thanks for letting some loser give the speech at graduation. signed the senior class Hey Ben heard something big is up with finance committee and you d<m't kno_w. If Unterborn is a rock star where are the girls? , D. Ross-What is it like to be married. Signed a single per- son. Hey Larry, who is that girl tt()lil Albany. She doesn't no the first wor,d from Roget. Hey Dude Huh whats hap- pening? Hey you guys, thanks for my making my short time at Union so enjoyable-I'll miss you but I'll only be a phone call away! Thanks .. Goodbye Union-the time was short but sweet. Oh, what warmth a fire could bring to the heartless. Rachel, Look for something that's worth your effort; looking at scum isn't worth the time. - s GMO: We need to have one more good fight before June loth. L To the last of the Charters of DDD: It was tough but we love it! DX, Sally Click Eat a peach ... lead 10-0: You're the best! What am I going to do without you next year? L Sony 3-0: Take care--keep away from those lead people- . remember I have your couch. L Cheryl: Hard to believe it's four years since 359-it's been great. L Margaret, Meredith, Amy Noog.: To all my little sisters- good luck next year-I'll miss you-you're terrific. L Craig, If you knew what you'd lost in the spring-you'd be devastated. You'll know by ( down)fall. Bruce Congratulations to Ralph Tortorella on his hole-in-one on the sixth hole of the Schenec- tady Municipal Golf Course last Tuesday afternoon. The Bros. of Beta To DDD: We the seniors are sure going to miss you! Good luck next year. Zaga: Thanks for being you. Hope road trips to Boston are in your plans for next year. L Mrs. T, Thanks for all the good times, wench! We made it -teddy bears, beer, and all!!! Hmmm, da-da! Fall term! the term ... ! ! ! Give me a call some night when \Creature\ keeps ya' up! Peachy J.T.-You've had the leopard for almost a week. Don't you think you should let it out already? Here is your personal, Ted. Have the \NEO'S\ taken over??? Mara and Amy-You Qetter have a good time this weekend- but don't pick up too many guys. Maybe you'll stop by and say hello during your visit, M.S.?? Kelly, \How big is your -- ? \ \I'm going to - the rapist!\ Sound familiar? The \D\ is key! ! Here's to you kiddo. To the DU Brothers with ''Midnight Madness''--- You really pulled through with the \Big 10 inch\ thanks for making us number 1! J.D. Buddy, Watch out it's wilderbeast season! 1 ! ! Have a nice summer at the Cape. Beware of road trippers! TO LAST YEAR'S SECOND FLOOR DAVIDSON (DAVIE'S BABIES): Good luck to those who are traveling far and wide next year. I'll keep the home fires buring and the men warm 'till you're all home.-The Sleaze GEEK: Don't think we don't know and don't think we don't care-we'll always be there!

Page/8 CONCORDIENSJS, May :u. 198.f. If anyone is planning on being~on campus June8&9 M The Dutch 1-lo~low Pub ~ 1ll Would like to thank 1kl the Union Commun:ity For ReUnion/Commencement Weekend the AI u mn i Off ice needs ... student workers to help with various events for its patronage Have a safe sumlner < • • (pay--$3.35 per hour) Good luck to the Class of 1984! Please call us at 6168 if you would like to work Congratulations! Vt;»lunteer Campaign Internship If you will be living in Westchester County this summer and want to aid the campaign of Oren Teicher, who is seeking the Democratic nomination to replace Richard OtHnger in Congress next January, you may apply to do the followi.ngthings: < • help research and write substantive issue papers • accompany Oren as he campaigns throughout the District • Organize various constituent groups • and more More information about candidate as well as application procedure available in the Career Development Center. Rooms/ Apts. Wanted for Summer College students from throughout the country will be at General Electric Corporate Research and Development this summer for a technical internship program and are in need--of summer housing. Please call Phyllis Martinez at 385-8164 Phi Delt's Day Party Wednesday, June 6th after the last fina:l 4:30p.m .-·-ta II WRUC- General Meeting for all station members Thurs., May 31 7 p.m. Stage II • Carnegie * * Congratulations to the 1984 GREEK ; - •· - . GODS 1 • Jake Cunningham 2. Stefan Deptula 3. Jim Doherty 4. Bill Kirby Thank you to all who contributed! AnENTION GRADUATES Orange Motors has a · College Graduate Finance Plan No Previous Credit Required Very Little Down No Co-Maker Necessary For Details'& Appointment Call Orange Motors 799 Central Ave. Albany, NY 12206 Ask for Joe Bruno or Vince Cristaldi 489-5414 ... 0 ~ Ill 0 u +- ru a. >- .!l 0 ,._ 0 .c:: c. Cr Unior come t1 joyed.·. passed thedut fallr all particit: it thro1 entli.usil Union agains· success. l competit In the granted program further sponsore1 an erg, simulato1 hours. 1 approxirr a timely< owner ' struction was abl existing consists racing sl chased fr and Nort: an ergo1 trailer < three eigi Rowin! limited, b upasapp women b1 anticipati season. ~ came in week of I Compe freshman men'san1 able to a defeating Universit Hamilton' oniy by ~

CONCQRDIENSIS,. Moy 24, 1984 Page/9 ScottWykoH Crew Team Has High Hopes On SPorts 0 ~ Ill 0 u +- Ill 0. >- .!l 0 +- 0 J: Q. By PA. VIDSVEDEN ·and JQIIN CIOVACCO Sport$ Staff Union's first. crew season. has come to a close. The team en- joyed . a success which,· sur- passed aU expectations. Since the club was flrst organized this fall, a high. level of interest and participation has strengthened it throughout the year. This enthusiasm was shown in the ~en's and women's crews in the fmals. · · · 'fhefollowing weekosaw Union back on home waters competing against Canisius College University of: Rochester, and Hobart. Union's first home regatta sponsored seven dif- fere~t competitive categories r~ngmg from men's varsity e1gbts to women's novice fours. The men's first eight moved up to the junior varsity division in search of better competition. . wmnen 's. first eight consiSting of: coxswain Gale . Burstein, Margo . Salisbury, :Karen St. Germain, Olivia Listzwan, Kathy Stoll, Georgia Sullivan, Darcee Evans, Karen Stash, and Margaret Hess came o(f the line $trong ahead of Johns Hopkins University, fighting for fifth place for tnost of the race, only to find themselves sixtb at ·the end of the 2000 meter course. The men's first boat was not to decide if Union crew packed its bags and went home or stayed for an()ther day of racing. The boat, consisting of: co:xswain John Macone, John Wyatt,. Jolm Ciovacco, Moose Raynard, Carl Schuldt, Gregg Clark, Bryan McGuirk, Lance .·~ Humphrey and David Sveden, had a· weak start. At the 500 meter mark, Union was a length behind Temple and Wesleyan and two lengths behind Trinity, who trailed New Hampshire by half a length. By the 100() meter mark, Union ·had passed Temple and was dead even with Wesleyan. The fight for third was ntpand tuck until the finiSh, with Union edging Wesleyan by 3/10of a second to qualify for the semifinals. Union Women's Crew co,J1ies in for a landing after their race against the University of R,ocheste_r on the Mohawk River. The semifinals proved dif- ficult .for the Union men, who found themselves battling for fourth place with Williams for most of the course, only to be nudged Dut at the finish by 7/10 of a second. In the final stan- dings, the men's crew placed a highly respectable twelfth out of thirty, defeating such crews as success of the team during its competitive racing season. They finished a hard fought third, two boat lengths ahead of Hobart and only a few seconds behind University of Rochester and Canisius. The women's first . .eight, men's second eight and women's novice four all fell short of the more experienced visiting crews. The men's novice four, consisting of the stern four rowers from the men's first eigfit finished second behind Canisius while defeating University of . Rochester. . WPI; University of R()chester, Lowell, and Marist, to name a few. After ~l higl)ly successful first year, Union Crew expects to carry the momentum into next fall. The club is looking forward to purchasing new eqUipment which will enhance its level of competitiveness. Union hopes to compete in several regattas in the fall, including the Head of the Charles, working towards even a better showing in next year's Dad Vails. Since returning to campus from summer vacation last fall,. one could fill a library with volume upon volume of newspaper and magazine ar- ticles about subjects from Beirut to Granada. While terrorists took .their toll in Lebanon and Marines stormed a tropical ·island, athletes clad in garnet were making a name for themselves in small college sports circles. Since 1983-84 is n9w history, in terms: of Dut- chman athletics, let's take a look back at the year and its offerings one last time. The banner year began way back in August with the arrival of fall athletes for: their respective bouts with pre season and the ·tate summer heat. The Dutchman pigskin- ners looked forward to season number two under the direction of the mentor they refer to as Bags. The sky was the limit for the garnet juggernaut as the squad brought distinction to the college with a fine performance that was viewed by all on the station that was on that December day, truly the home of winners. Magee and McNamara were not to be outdone last autumn as one of the youngest soccer teams in recent times broke into the nation's top ten. Led by veterans Sheridan and Zeifang~ the garnet hooters grew with each game and ended the year better than any soccer squad before them. How ironic, as only one year e~rlier Union's soccer team finished flat on its face with little hope for the future. While both of the before mentioned teams enjoyed their respective days in the sun a group of hard nosed skaters hit the ice of Achilles with the hope of harvesting such post season enjoyment. By early Janll8ry it. In the fall, the team was granted $3,035.00 to begin its program. In an effort to raise further funds, the teams sponsored an ergathon in which an ergometer (a rowing simulator) was rowed for 48 hours. The ergathon raised approximatley $700;00 and with a timely donation by Lou Swyre, owner of an Albany con- struction c;ompany, the club wa~ able to purchase its existing equipment. This consists of three eight-man racing shells wipt oars, pur- chased from Harvard, Amherst and Northfield Mount Hermon, an ergometer, and a shell trailer capable of, carrying three eights and one four. Th,e crew team finished its season competing in the 46th Annual Dad Vail Regatta. The Dad Vail is one of the largest small-school regattas, spon- soring 16 competitive categories, some with over 25 crews entered in them. Preliminary . races . began .. on e e . finish season at 9~4 looked as though the Skating Dutchman's fortunes would remain status quo for yet another season. But the un• selfish team began to win and Wjn and win again. Soon, in- st;ead .of talking about how the squad would blow it, fans began to get in line fortheirticketsfora . &~he:r•.2ctady happening. With a biiiik of the eye Union found its hockeyteatna game away from a NCAA finals appearance. Five h()urs and seven periods later, the garnet skaters knew they ·had made their mark. The past year also held a number of fond moments for many ()ther Dutchman teams and individual athletes. The fall saw the emergence of a com- petitive varsity soccer team for women. Julie Miller proved that hard work can make up for lack of experience as she ended her four year tennis career as the state's top female player. Though the Dutchman basketball team didn't match the record it posted in the previous year, they never once said die, and finished the winter strong with a victory over nationally ranked Hamilton. Women's hoops fared well in 83- 84 and two women named Cay Lynch and Julie Miller pun- ched out having left a mark not long to be forgotten. Spring brought rain but the Dutchmen got out from under their um- brellas long enough to knock the ball out of the park; make it to the tape out in front and face adversity with their sticks held high. Now tbat we have enjoyed the past it is time to look forward to the future. It all starts over again this corning August. This past year was eventful to say · the least and with another year like 83-84 this reporter will have no problem finding features for future C()lumns. Rowing in the fall was . limited, but activity soon picked up asapproxii:nately 60 men and women began winter training in anticipation of the spring racing seas()n. The team's first test came in Ithac!l, after only a week of practice on the water. Friday, May 11, in heats of six boats, with the top three crews in each heat moving to the semifinals. The men's four, consisting of: coxswain Wes Harris, Chris Nolan, Ken Sipperly, Brendan Cassidy and Brad Spitz, opened the competition finishing sixth in their heat, 14 seconds behind the fifth boat, after only two practices in a four-man shell. After races were delayed due to high winds and rough water, the Ruggers Destroy Old Green Competing in the novice- freshman division, both the men's and women's crews were able to advance to the finals, defeating the likes of Colgate, University of Rochester and Hamilton. Union was defeated only by strong Ithaca College ~~~--- 4· ear Winners Joseph Bogan, Jr .-Football Jodi arenner-Volleyball Barton.Btooks-Hookey Joseph Caruso-llockey I<yle Cotugno-Swinuning Christoph~rDavis-Lacrosse ~ MarkDLinn-Track Linda Gutin..Softball Timothy Ho'weil-Football William Huttner-Football Steven Jacobs-swimming Rita Lindenburg-.Tennis Catherine t.ynch-:Sasketball Benjamin Maynard-Hockey, Lacrosse Julie Miner-Tennis, Basketball . pwightMoore-Tennjs .. Ronald Newbold-8wunmmg Sharon Pearl..Swinuning Thomas Plungis-Football Thomas Qub·k-Football David Sheridan ...Soccer Roberta Stein-Lacrosse David We!ck-8Wimming Gary W_ ·.,.nn•~•·-'T Basketball BytJCRFC Sports Staff The Rugby Club 'closed out its spring season with an easy- handed victory over the . Old Green Club from Albany this past Sattirday at Lincoln Park in Albany. Led by sophomore Tim Riley, the Garnet ruggers capped off their 9-4 season by rolling to a 29;.() win. Riley who has consistently been a scoring machine .all season put in his finest game after scoring three tries, two from breakaway runs of over 30 meters. The Garnet got on the board early in the first half with Riley's first try of the af• ternoon. This one came after a surging serum gained possession for the line to quickly move the ball out to its wing who broke through two defenders for the score. Union's second try came on a very similar play, but. this time it was Scott Collins breaking through for the score. Matt Schambers made good the conversion and the ruggers led by ten. Yet, this was not it for the tll'St half. Riley broke a long run of 45 meters to put his team up 14..0 at half-time. The five-minute break did nothing to cool off the Garnet machine. Soon after the initiation of the second half, it was Steve Cole who put his shoulder down and drove through the Old Green defense for a fourth Union try. Again Schambers made good the conversion increasing the lead to twenty points. Schl!Inbers then split the uprights .(again). for three more, this time from 42 meters out after an Albany infringement. The final Garnet try came after Riley's third try of the game for his hat-trick, and his ninth try of the season. This one came after several extraordinary fine fakes, for as Smiley was placing the ball down directly behind the posts, he turned back only to see the frustrated Old Green fullback trailing behind. .The points- after.;kick was again successful by Schambets and the Garnet had their 29-0 finale. The Club would like to thank. its two captains, serum-captain Doug Baumgarten and line- captain Steve Cole, for their outstanding leadership guiding the team to its fine 9-4 season. Special thanks and congratulations go to the graduating members who in their own way, and in more ways ~an one, served to guide the younger players on the squad. In tile serum, the seniors include Gene Gass at hooker, Pete Ladd playing second.;row, wing-forward Steve Testo, and prop Tom Gengo. Out on the line, the gr-aduating ruggers are serum-half Steve Patterson, fly- half John Wilber, and Eric Serrilli at outside-center. The RFC then celebrated its laurels Tuesday night at its annual banquet. Elections of new officers were held Wed- nesday afternoon. Remaining players have the summer off and begin practice upon returning in September when the Club will begin its first season ever of league play. Included in Union's league are the following clubs: Albany State, Hamilton, RPI, Clarkson, and Potsdam. Enjoy your summer, ruggers, and good luck to the graduating seniors.

P111W 10 SPORTS CONCORDJENSIS, May2t/., 1984 ear 1983-84 Most Valuable Players FALL . Men's Cross Country--ChristopherO'Donneil W<>men's Cross Country-- Amy Walsh Field Hockey--Dianne Moskaluk ·Football--Daniel Stewart. Men's Soccer·\ David She.ridan Women's Soccer--Lisa Ra.thbun Women'~ Tennis--Julie Miller Volleybaii--Cheri-Ann Wong WINTER Men's Basketball--Joseph Wood Women's Basketball--Rebecca Clemente Hockey--Gill Egan Men's Swimming--Kyle Cotugno Women's Swimming--Sharon Pearl Men's Indoor Track--Winston Britton Women's Indoor Track--Jennifer Snover SPRING Men's Baseball--Nathaniel Harris Men's Golf--Michael Rozzi Men's Lacrosse--Benjamin Maynard Women's Lacrosse-- Roberta Stein Men's Outdoor Track--Scott Remillard Women's Outdoor Track--Jennifer Oil orio Women's Softball-- Angela Mizcek Men's Tennis--Dwight Moore orts CXHI Dean black (CPS) of colle suicide! attribUI hasn't provem ... su .IapUOM JarraJls prau aq S'eM .I. anne asatn l'el{A\ ' aJada.t< lBql }[ a:ql JO ue ne; dtunH· .xanalls 01 aan <~M pue epua~e s~l a;> -uag u UIUJO.!{ \;.anJl a~ano:J seq pas .xaq1aq11 JO S{Ra1 01 pa1e1 a~ano::> Jl') ~ma 01 uo 11 l'IUllllS ; awos aql 01 ; u! peor. }DO

Pane 20 SPORTS - - ~~- en >- .0 0 +- 0 ' .c: 'o/.-\'Wr\\' Q. - f- ~ >- .0 0 +- 0 s=. Q. f- !X >- .0 0 - 0 .c c. >- ~ lJ) c: E ~, ltJ ~ >- 1- '- ltJ _j >- .:::> \' E ._,\'~·~. 0 ,.-<Jr'W '§.,. f- !X >- .0 0 - 0 s=. Q. ~ c<> ~ CONCO!lDIENSIS, May 24, /984 ear n 1983-84 Most Valuable Players FALL Men's Cross Country--Christopher O'Donnell Women's Cross Country--Amy Walsh Field Hockey--Dianne Moskaluk Football--Daniel Stewart Men's Soccer--David Sheridan \Nomen's Soccer--Lisa Rathbun Women's Tennis--Julie Miller Volleybaii--Cheri-Ann Wong WINTER Men's Basketball--Joseph Wood Women's Basketball--Rebecca Clemente Hockey--Gill Egan Men's Swimming--Kyle Cotugno Women's Swimming--Sharon Pearl Men's Indoor Track--Winston Britton Women's Indoor Track--Jennifer Snover SPRING Men's Baseball--Nathaniel Harris Men's Golf--Michael Rozzi Men's Lacrosse--Benjamin Maynard Women's Lacrosse-- Roberta Stein Men's Outdoor Track--Scott Remillard Women's Outdoor Track--J en niter DiIorio Women's Softball--Angela Mizcek Men's Tennis-- Dwight Moore CXII - i '. ! De a blac p tCPi of colJ suicidE attrib hasn't prover 0 •• s .Iapuo .ran a~ lX8U < St?M annb asaq1 WLf.&\. aJada lBL{l aq1 j ue rr dumH Janall 01 aa: ;)M. pt -epua~ S!Ql a -uag um.IO .. ;.an.I . ! a~ an< Si?Lf p;; J<lL{l<ll JO SJ'B 0 1 P<lll a~auo. JO au 01 uo ~UYllT~ amos a41 Ol ll! pee ~0(] paa < -- I i '







:1 ·~ 1· •· L r-o 1c1es . ax By JONNY B.GRUX Student Forum Vice- President for Finance--elect, Brian Lax: announced today the complete restructuring of the policies governing the control of the student activities' budget. In making the announcement, Lax said that he felt that there is a need to \ease up on the .groups so that they don't feel a need to control their spending.\ Some of Lax's new policies will include: the elimination of the voucher system, ledger books; audits, and \finance committee representtltives.\ He said. that these few but simple -modifications to the. system would .put us back at least three years-'to a time of · ·more \fun and excitement.\ Lax went on to say that Forum President-elect Steven Ben-· doveragreedwith him that \the Formn was a lot more fun two years ago when there was one · scandal after another.'' Lax stated that he felt that there would not be much trouble getting the· F~rum to go al~ng with the new plan. \Jt' s simple- J.f I do nothing at all, the whole system will fall apart by itself and I'll have scandals just knocking at my door. \I mean .. .. who can worry about this fmance stuff with 'hoops' season less than five months away!\ said Lax. · · Upon hearing . the news, former V.P. for Finance Ben Heckser told this reporter that he really didn't care- ''this will just .give Dean Mazza a reason to come to Student Forum meetings.'' Heckser went on to say that he believes that Ray Oavies, of the Kinks, was right- just \. . . give the people what they want . . . \ The 'Lax System' of \natural degeneration\ through the passive leadership of the Finance Committee will surely give ass reporter Franklin \we've got to talk\ Schnider something to write about next year.. Thismaybringback some of the great Concordy headlines such as ''More Student Activity Heads Role.\ · Only time will tell. ~ ,J4 ~ r·-....,,~-r '''''''~\'!t~ .(;.~ _, Possible relocation site forth~ Me Pub. IJISTORDIENSJS, June 1984 Page.? Students who led revolt and took over Ben & Jerry's. ReVolting Students HitB& J's LasfTuesdaynight five Union college women stormed into the famous Ben and Jerry's ice cream parlour on Union Street and began their occupation of this popular Schenectady night spot. This group who ,go by the name of \The Prime Time Ice Cream Eaters'j are led by Chris Shorta, a sister of Sigma Alpha 'll Tau. According to Shorta the Union students that he \Jikes parlour was taken over be~ause ice ~ream and it is in fact very \West College can not meet the good .for you.\ Deans needs of Union Students when it Massachusetts and Mammalia comes to good food.\ voiced their concern about rum Schenectady police responded raisin ice cream saying that to the scene but decided that it they do not want to see students would be better for Union driving under the influence students ·to run the place s~ce af~e~ e~ting a small cone of_r~ they are the only people who go raLSlll ICe cream. Our nation s there anyway. Head of campus president, . Ronnie Rea&an security Cliff Woodward was applauded the women saymg appalled by the actions of the that he hoped that other schools Schenectady police calling would follow in their footsteps. them lazy ice :Crea~ lovers. Reagan is enthusiastic that ice Said Woodward, \Since the city cream will soon be considered a is not going to take any action vegetable. against these.. criminals, we at In an exclusive interview With Campus Security must once NBC's Today show host .Jane again take the law into our own Pauley, Shorta discussed the hands: If they ever set foot on occupation. \We don•t want to the Union campus we will slap hurt anyone,\ said Shorta, c•we them with a $50 fine.\ just want to· feed Union students At first Director of food well. Look, if you were at a Services Jan Greystoke was school where you had to study upset about the takeover saying all the time, you too would want \Why don't they like West? We to go to a nice place to eat. The serve ice crearntoo, you know.\ problem is that nobody has But in a letter to the editor enough money to pay for a Greystoke ~tated that she did dinner at a nice restaurant so not say this but rather said that we go to the dining halls. I've she was enthusiastic about the seen what happens to Union takeover and hopes that the graduates. It's something in the Prime Time Ice Cream Eaters water!\ will allow her to run the parlour As of this writing Sborta has herself. \I have some really no plans for leaving the great ideas for redecorating the premises at Ben and Jerry's. place ... ,\ said Greystroke. 1 Schenectady police are not Relocation Sites Announced Most all of the faculty and concerned with the occupation. administration seem to be for As for Ben and Jerry, they said the takeover. ·President Borris that they can ''use all the free commented that he thought it publicity they can get.\ was a good idea and assures all During the reconstruction of Carnegie Hall into the Campus Center next year it will be necessary to relocate·· some of the departments and .. student activities currently housed in Carnegie Hall. Anticipating the move, the College's \campus. planner''. Jack Lutiski (alias Mr. Saratoga Associates), has devised the following tem· porary location plan: 1. Mrs. Marra and her \Student Activities greenhouse,., will move to the conference room in the basement of the administration building-right next to George Schieler's accounting office. 2. Dave Wooden will have to relocate and set up his Housing Office in an apartment up on University Place. This new site will give students the chance to see what \the good life\ is really like. 3. Janet Graystone will move her little \experimental kit· chen\ and the Food service office to the S~eller--her JUNIORS Buy your senior thesis NOW before they are all gone For more info. See.Mrs. D'Ma.rara in the Office of Active Stud·ents favorite place. 4. Radio Station WRUC will have to move its broadcast site to the library. We figure that this will keep their \noise\ to a minimum. 5. The Student Forum room is tougn. Like its present location, on the top floor of Carnegie, it should be in a really out of the way place where no one can find it. How about:·-the curling ''Warm room\ under Achilles Rink? 6. The Dfstordiensis, mUst be moved to a location that provides easy access to free pizza and soda; the Skeller, Vice-President D' Andyea, and at the same time be far away from Janet Graystone. They shall be relocated to 1068 Wendell Avenue-so Julie and Donna don't even have to leave their apartment to put together the paper. 7. Dean Mammoli will be put in the administration building with the rest of the people who are always referred to as \'THE administration.l• · 8. Dean Mazza will be m<>ved into an empty room in· some fraternity house--some frat where they have lots of his favorite kind of activities-- parties (with lots of underage kids drinking beer!) 9. The McPub will be con· tracted out to a concortium of DU brothers and the McDonalds Corporation-actual operating site is to be determined:. It. is the hOpe of THE ad· ministration that these minor changes will be of little in· convience to the little people on this campus-the students. On the Career Front By DIANE PAVACHICK Career Assist~nt





\Oh God! I knew I shouldn't have tried that magic trick.\ I I I Working on senior theses.::; Future Skeller Rats. \I w.ish theywCJuld fix the bathrooms in the S.S. Building. DISTORDIENSJS, June 1984 \ DU.invest~ in new art sculpture. -- ,,_.~ , . . . . ... \'''f .. ' ,- / .•. ~ l \ l:

',-_,,., ':':;·.-. \Oh God! I knew I shouldn't have tried that magic trick.\ I I I I Working on senior theses ... Future Skeller Rats. -- \I wish theywou ld fix the bathrooms in the s.s. Bui I ding, \' ...,_, . ··~ \.,&-m\.:.. \Yep it's stiH tf:lere.\ DU invests in new art scu•lpture. If they don't raise my salary, I'll do this for real, HA, HA, HA ,,,, ;l ~· -.-- J





J Head, shoulders, knees and toes ... He's a ratbu,t he's the only one we've got! T ~ DTSTORJ)IENSIS, June 1984 Meet your new Alumni council Representative; Poge '1 Richard: \That pipe does not exist, Jan.\ Jan: \If this is true, then my hand wili catch on, fire.\

i ( , I i Head, shoulders, knees and toes ... He's a rat but he's the only one we've got! T '*1~., $~ Gentlemen prefer Hanes. •J;:~' .. ~,,-\<' _,., •\'. • DISTORD!ENSJS, June 1984 11 1 thi•nk t·hatourmaxi mum level of utiHty atthis function has been aftai,ned.\ ···'!=.._- ;alii ~-~ ·'\; ;;;_] Meet your new Alumni Council Represel'ltative. Page 7





