...... .... .i: 1.. .(IJ :E .... fll n. > .0 0 0 J: a rJl c: .J:l .J:l 0 ~ (1) > ~ V) ).. .J:l 0 +- 0 .c: c. C)(,l U, No. 18 Profess.or Byron Nichols will lead the new term abroad pro.gram in Mexi <JO next winter. AprU 5, 1984 Mexico Term Established ByLYNNHANO .staff Believe it or not Union is offering another new term abroad. This program will be loca:ted in C11ernavaca, Mexico, at the . Center for Bilingual Multicultural Studies. This center, says Professor Byron Nicl10ls \is described by many as the best institute for foreign study in Mexico.\ Last December, Nichols was sent down to Mexico by Union to investigate possible 'locations for a Union program. Nichols foWld Cuernavaca to have the most appealing cultural and academic program. Tlle center is not only used by American colleges, such as Colby, but is used by various businesses and · government officials to develop proficiency in Spanish. The Mexico term is scheduled for Winter 1985. Nichols will be the faculty member in residence. Union students will be required to take three courses, Political Science 59, Liberal Learning 119, and a SpaniSh language .course. The political science course entitled, \Global Development and the Inequality of Nations: other two courses toward the term's end. As to requirements for par- ticipation, students must have completed at least Spanish 10 prior to going to Mexico. P.S. 59 and LL 119 will be taught in Spanish. At the end of each class, instructors will provide English summaries for those who are not yet proficient in The Center for Bilingual Multicultural Studies \is described by many as the best institute for foreign study in Mexico.'' -Prof. Byron Nichols Arts Building Renovated The Case of Mexico,\ will be taught by Nichols. In this class, students will involve them- selves in ''cross cultural ex- ploration of the process by which Third and Fourth Worlds achieve political 'modernity.' \ The liberal learning course, called \Mexican Culture and Civilization,\ wUI be taught by several different Mexican professors at the center ~who have their PhD's from American universities. This class is basically a hwnanities course, focusing on the study of Mexican art and literature as a cultural .phenomena. Nichols :.s~y~, \The liberal learning course will consist of several parts in. which we will take advantage of relevant two week . mini•courses offered- by the center.\ Spanish. Classes at the center begin at 8:00a.m. and end at 2:00p.m., when a typical Mexican school day is completed. Students will be living with upper middle class Mexican families whose houses are located within walking distance of the center. Alhneals will be taken with the family. 'Typically, the day begjns with ·a light breakfast before one leaves for school; then after 2:00, when school is over, the students go home to their families for the large meal B:y PETER MOHR Staff During the upcoming sum- mer, tb.e second part of the tht-ee . phase .renovation prog~.e~rn of the Arts Building will I:Je developed. This phase will ·inctude a performing arts ro!Jin,. several new studios and cl~sl\oD:ms and a new st11dent exbibitiDn area. I:r1 19\72~ the offices and faeilities for Union arts were .br()ugl!t together in the present Arts Btlildin_g. The structure, part c()f the original plan of Josepll Jacques Ramee, wa:s const:TUded in 1852 as PhilosoJ)hical Hall. The building was wec:l for natural sciences, inclmling physics, before the arts wer-e installed. During the 197fl's,. there was a growing realiz~ti~n o.n the part of the carnpms community that the arts pt•ogram could be hn- pr.oved with new facilities desig:ne<l especially for the departm:ent. The possibility of renovations to the Arts Building was · fur: thered ~Y the bequest of Walter Kreusi, a Union alumnus. In his will, Kreusi stated that the fUll.ds were to be applied to the arts . de-partment. This fund, -wh.ic!I grew to $250,000 by 1980, wa~~Hrniployed in the first phase of the three-phase renovation of the Arts Building. The first phase was primarily executed during tile smnmer ofl982. This cornpc:ment of the restoration progr;an consisted of the in- stalla:tiDn of the temporary Kreusi galleries, a graphics roCJm,. and a stairwell designed to meet fire code regulations~ In addition., the entrances to the buildi:ng were relocated so as to all'()W\ the south facade to resexnblE the original Ramee plan. \First Class Work\ The three phase plan is the prodttet of John Mesick of the Albaray architectural firm of MendEl, Mesnick, Cohen and Waite. The firm specializes in presenation work. In the words of Dmiel Robbins, chairman of the ar:1s department, \ • . . they specialize in accommodating to the elegance and propriety of the original spaces and they do first-clas~ work. We are very, very pleased that the College chose tbe firm .•.. TbeY have an historical and artiStic con- science that few contemporary architects have.\ The college business office selected Clifford H. Quay and Sons to do the actual con- struction work for the first pl'lase. Robbins notes, \The · firm ... did a very satisfactory job.\ After reviewing proposals from several contractors, the College selected the same firm to develop the .second phase. Work on the building may begin as early as mid-April, but certainly no later than June. To assist the arts department in financing the second phase, the Kresge Foundation of Troy, Michigan provided the College with a three for one matching grant of $100,000. In the sununer of 1982, Union was given a one- year deadline to raise $310,000. At that time, the College began a campaign to raise money ·from the alumni and friends of Union. The campaign was successful, raising $338,000 within the required time. The work of the second phase will cover a more extensive area inside the Arts Building than that of the first phase. On the first floor, one large room will ·be developed for the per• forming arts. There will also be renovated studios for sculptw·e and three-dimensional design. The second floor will contain new rooms for ~drawing, lec- tures, and rnusic. There will also be- one seminar room as well as office space. Apprmqmately one-third of the second floor will be reserved for photography. The new facilities will all be located on the south: side of the building and will include two labs for students, . one for faculty members, a $hooting studio, and two offices. The most novel feature of the second phase plan will be. the construction of a \student forwn.\ This room will be employed as gallery space where students may exhibit their work. It will be con- structedinthe northwest corner of the building, extending from the present first floor lobby to the current arts annex. The gallery will be~ two and one-half stories bigh, and will receive light from a skylight. It will be . connected to : j.Jae ' .room . for pe!\fotming arts by several sliding glass doors. Robbins envisions the forwn as being used for receptions after per- formiJ,nces in the adjoining room. _ Extensive Second Phase Although the work of the second phase will be extensive, Robbins hopes that the renovations will be completed by September. This would allow fall classes to begin right away in the new .rooms. In com- menting on the work ahead, Robbins notes, ''If the quality of the space and the workmanship is what we've been led to expect by the first phase . . . then the arts building will be beautiful.\ · Students will be required to take Spanish, as well. The center · at Cuernavaca specializes in Spanish and has a unique method ()f teaching the language. Each student is placed -in a class specifically at his own level. There are no more than five students in a class and there may be as many different levels as there are classes~ The Spanish program will be taught intensively so that the language studies will be completed after six weeks, thus allowing more time for the of the day. . After the afternoon dinner and ample time for relaxation, students may return to the center for informal activities. These include: seminars in health care delivery, classes in Mexican foll~ dancing and music, as well as Mexican cooking taught in a Mexican home. After these late af. ternoon activities, students will most likely return to their respective families where they will eat their light evening meal at about 9:00 p.m. Continued on page 4 The Skating DutChmen's long journey to the National finals started at Achilles with a 6-4 victory over No. Adams and what followed was th€l ECAC West Finals, a trip to Wisconsin River Falls, exams and the final four in Rochester. Junior Co·Captain Gill Egan (11) and sophomore defen~ . seman John Mac~enzi~were chosen for the prestigious NCAA Division Ill AII·Tournament team.

~ .0 .0 0 0:: Cl1 > Cl1 ... II) >- .0 0 .... 0 .t: a. Pagel L>l·rector of Computer Services Wayne Holt comments on limited HPuse. CONCORDIENSJ!): Apri/5, 1984 Computer Use Restricted By DAVE MARIN Staff . To alleviate pressure on the Hewlett Packard (HP) 3~8, the office of computer services has restricted student use to weekends an dafter 5:00p.m. on weekdays. Director of Com- puter Services. Wayne Holt explained that the transition of administrative accounts from the Burroughs to the HP has created an additional strain on the system. Eventually, all student HP users will be tranSferred to the new general curricular computer to be in· stalled in December while the HP. will fUnction only ·as an administrative computer. Encouraging VAX use o~rator on duty and therefore cannot W!e the microcomputers at time$ when these people are not working. Currently, there are 72 thesis accounts on the HP and only thirty non-course personal accounts of the· 600 on tlte VAX. H<>lt noted that use of the microcomputers has increased and. he hopes to see that trend continue. lJe also wishes to em,phasize that only students with approved thesis projects would be able to purchase ac• counts on either the VAX: or the HP. Forum Discusses lssue,·s The office of computer ser- vices is also making two other reconunendations to cut down on usage. First, it is en· couraging students to buy ac· counts on the VAX 1110 for the same $25 .fee they woUld pay for the HP. In addition to this relief for the HP, students may use the VAX at any time of the day since, as art acadelilic com- puter, the VAX gets less use during the morning and af- ternoon. Presently, the VAX does not have quite the printer •. output quality of the HP, though . this may change by December. The question of printer q)lality is one which Holt said could be speculated upon. He sees .the possibility in the future, however, for interfaces between the main computers that would enable students to use the cheapest and hest-qual,ity printer available. At present, it has not been determined what kind of printer capability the new mainframe computer will have. By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor \ . . . And so I propose that an amendment be made to the SGA constitution which would allow seniors who graduate in winter term to be considered voting members of the student body (SGA), for an additional term following graduation,\ proposed Vice President .for Finance Ben Heckscher at the last Student Forwn meeting. The forum, in its first; meeting of the spt:ing tenn, discussed several issues. Committee Reports As is standard procedure, the committee · reports were presented first. Jared Squires, the Committee on Committee's ( CoC) chairman reported that the CoC will be making a · decision on selections to fill the vacant finance committee positions within the week. Squires also apologies for the delay of the CoC bylaws and ensured that they will be ready before the next forum meeting. term ''expensive events,\ such as Camp Union. The crew club's request for an additional $500 was passed by the FC. A motion was made by Heckscher for the forum to allocate the funds. The motion passed unanimously, 14 yes. Also, a fund raising incentive program was proposed by Sophomore Representative Andrew George. Part of the proposal Includes a matching fund clause: if the fund raising event is approved by the finance committee, then · the raised funds will be matched (up to a specific amount) by the finance committee. Lastly, Heckscher announced his resignation this term due to personal reasons. Reluctantly, the forwn acknowledged his action.lt was also announced at this time by Forwn President Win Thurlow, that Junior Representative Brian Laux is to be chairman of the FC, with Sophomore Representative Andrew George as associate chairman. Though the titles denote a difference of irn· portance in the two positions, Thurlow described Laux's Shari Midoneck, junior trustee, reported that although nothing has recently occurred within the Board of Trustees, it will be meeting on April 12 and :c 13. The tentative agenda in· ~ eludes approval of an architect c:: for the college center and itl alumni gym. No student affairs ~ council. report was issued t because it has not met yet this <C term. ~ Because Academic Affairs ,g ·«•~iM CQll11Cil Representative Jamie g Danziger was absent, no a. academic affairs council report Vice President for Finance Ben was. given. However, Inter· Heckscher resigns. F r a t e r n i t y C o u n c i l position as one of \first among Representative (IF C), Joe equals.\ Bogan, reported that the IFC The focus of the meeting then had a meeting on April 2. It turned toward the subject of discussed party policy and the \old business.\ Improvements possibility of an escort service. in campus security was the \As you know, the New York· focus of the meeting in which State Budget was recently Junior Representative Susan passed. The first year of TAP Brand, President Thurlow, parity passed, but un· Dean of Students, Joseph fortunately the four-year· Mammola, a;d several other program was not,'' stated administrators took a walking Steven Benson, the independent tour of the campus, examining student coalition (ISC) places of poor lighting. As,, representative. With the Brand stated, \the ad- recently passed state budget, ministration seemed very regent scholarship payments receptive to our input.\ Also, as have been increased, along with passed at the March forwn the maximum income limit and meeting, the Security and payment amounts. Also, a Safety CoiD:mission met with Vietnam veterans educational Sue Brand, Melissa Vigliehno assistance bill was passed. (student trustee), and Junior Vietnam vets can now go to both Representative Jacques Simon. public and private institutions Student input at this meeting tuition free. The ISC is now was also well received. setting its sights on next year's \Hopefully we will see action,\ state budget. . added Brand. Heckscher then presented the The last area of disclission finance committee (FC) was \newbusiness.\Heckscher minutes. At its last meeting, the made two proposals at this finance corrunittee went over point. the February Project Director's The first concerned a report-it lists the financial proposed change of rnem- status of a11 student activities. bership in · the Planning , and Presently, approximately 50 PrJorities Group. Presently, percent of the student activities there are three student rnem- budget has been spent, keeping bers. Heckscher proposed in mind the upcoming spring keeping three student mem- bers, but making one of those positions to be held by the student forum president. This way, the forum would have a \direct line of input\ to the· group. A motion was made to the forum for passage of the proposal. It passed unanimously. The proposal will now go before the faculty for approval. . Heckscher's last proposal concerned allowing students who graduate early to still .participate in student activities Horizon Seven outstanding juniors majoring in science or engineering at Union have been chosen as General Electric Expanded Horizon Scholars for 1984.-85'. . Those receiving scholarships will undertake research projects in university laboratories this summer and will continue those projects when they return to Union in the fall. A faculty advisor will aid the student both at the host university and at Union. The students selected are: David G. Barrett, a chemistry maj()r from Willseyville, NY, who will study cyclophane chem~stry under Professor Virgil Boekelheide in the Department of Chemistry at the University of Oregon, and at Union with William B. Martin, Jr., professor of chemistry; Steven Bertman, a chemistry major from Rochester, NY, wh(). will study cloud-water con- centrations of aldehydes under- Dr. John A. Kadlecek of the Atmospherie Sciences Research Center ()f the State University of New York at Albany, and at Union with Leslie A. Hull, associate pr()fessor of chemistry; Karen .J. Colucciello, a ·mechanical engineering major from Scotia, NY, who will studythe effects of alloying on nitride em- brittlement of high chro:nllmn The computer center also . suggests that students use the PRO 300 microcomputers which . may be used for free. However, the disadvantage . to that · arrangement is that students must obtain software from the computer consultant or with undergraduate statu.s without paying a student ac· tivities fee during the spring term following their graduation (see lead paragraph). A motion was also made for this proposal which was pa~sed- by the forum Scholars ferritic stainless steels under Prpfessor Roger N. Wright in the Materials Engineering Department at Rensselaer Polytechnic ·Institute, and at Union under Frank Milillo, associate professor of mechanical ,engineering; Douglas C. Eddy, a mechanical engineering major from West Springfield, MA, who will study the design, calibration, and testing of a cloud-fog sample collector under Dr. John A. Kadlecek of the Atmospheric Sciences Research Center of the State University of New York at Albany, and at Union with Andrew F. Burke, visiting professor of n1echanical engineering; Collin W. Green, a physics n1aj.or from Win- chester, MA, who will study medical imaging with a limited angle positron camera under Professor B. L. Holman of the Harvard Medical School and Professor L. Osborne of the Physics Department at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and at Union with Gary Reich, assistant professor of physics; Joyce M. Harrington, a mechanical engineering major from Morris Plains, NJ, who will · study stress relaxation in copper under Professor Roger N. Wright in the Materials Engineering Department at ' (13 Yes-1 No). Before the meeting ad- journed, Win Thurlow an .. nounced a change in the f<n1Um's meeting times: they Will now meet on Monday nights at 9:00 p.m., instead of 10:00 p.m. Chosen Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and at Union with Filadelfo Panlilio, professor of mechanical engineering; and Christopher R. Hoop!~, an electrical engineering major from Wolcott, NY, who will study electronic charac- terization of sen1icon:ductor surfaces at the National Research and Resource · characterization of semicon- ductor surfaces at the National Research and Resource Facility for Submicron Structures in the Knight Laboratory at Cornell University, and at Union with Herbert J. kump, assistant professor of electrical engineering. Charles Scaife, professor of chemistry and· program director, said the students 'Were chosen from among thirteen applicants nominated by departments by committee members Scaife, Kump, Milillo, Christopher Jones, and Robert W. Schaefer. Students . will receive $2,500 summer stipends and travel funds from a $65,000 grant fron1 the General Electric F'olln• dation. . The program is designed to encourage in- creased nwnbers of science and engineering students to enter graduate school and piU'sue teaching careers at colleges and universities. The Mathematics Depar-tment is conduCting a third•year review of Professor Kimma Rosenthal. Anyone who is interested in .m!Jking a contl:ibution to this evaluation is invited to dG so by contacting Professor Zwicker ~t·the Mathematics Department or at extension 6197. · The Mathematics Department is· conducting a third•year review of Professor Julhn Barbanel. Anyone who is interested in niaking a contribution to this evaluation is invited to dG so by contacting Professor Seiken at the Mathematics Department or at extension 6177. The Mathematics Department is conducting a third-year review of .Professor · Susm11 Niefielcf. Anycnte who is interested in making a contribution to this evaluation is invited to cle so by contacting Professor Taylor at the Mathematics Department or at extension 6192. The Biolagy Department is canducting a third-year review of the qualifications of Assistant Professor RoiJert Olberg in the aregs of teaching, scholarship and College service. Members of the College community are invited to mail comments on Professor Olberg's perform1nce ill these are11s ta Professor F.L. Lambert, Room 5·324, Science and Engineering Center. I IJ COll gta sai, res] .stu~ the Uni ver job asp Thi res:. -~whi isC s Uni aft. Te~ Uni Uni adr in poil stu fin: li wa: reg Tl hav, last Mu1 Lak Cia: Elli bee1 aut4 nea Mul Sar whE the bas by Job Job sist Cin of ~

Vl c:: .c ..c 0 ~ a.> > 2: <f) >- .!:1 0 ... 0 .l: a. ' . L> 1rector of Computer Services Wayne Holt comments on limi.ted H P use. CONCORDif..'NSJ~: Apri/5, 1984 Computer Use Restricted By DAVE MARIN Staff To alleviate pressure on the Hewlett Packard (liP) 3()()()..68, the office of computer services has restricted student use to weekends and after 5:00 p.m. on weekdays. Director of Com- puter Services Wayne Holt explained that the transition of admLnistrative accounts from the Burroughs to the HP has created an additional strain on the system. Eventually, aH student HP users will be transferred to the new genera,l curricular computer to be in' stalled in December while the HP will function only as an administrative computer. Encouraging VAX use operator on duty and therefore cannot use the microcomputers at times when these people are not working. Currently, there are 72 thesis accounts on the HP and only thirty non-course personal accounts of the 600 on the VAX. Holt noted that use of the microcomputers has increased and he hopes to see that trend continue. He also wishes to emphasize that only students with approved thesis projects would be able to purchase ac- counts on either the VAX or the HP. Forum Discusses Issues The office of computer ser- vices is also making two other recommendations to cut down on usage. First, it is en- couraging students to buy ac- counts on the VAX 1170 for the same $25 fee they would pay for the HP. In addition to this relief for the HP, students may use the VAX at any time of the day since, as an academic com- puter, the VAX gets less use during the morning and af- temoon. Presently, the VAX does not have quite the printer output quality of the HP; though this may change by December. The question of printer quality is one which Holt said could be speculated upon. He sees the possibility in the future, however, for interfaces between the main computers that would enable students to use the cheapest and best-quality printer available. At present, it has not been determined what kind of printer capability the new mainframe computer will have. By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor \_ .. And so I propose that an amendment be made to the SGA constitution which would allow seniors who graduate in winter term to be considered voting members of the student body r SG A), for an additional term following graduation,'' proposed Vice President for Finance Ben Heckscher at the last Student Forum meeting. The forum, in its first. meeting of the spr:ing term, disc11ssed several issues. Committee Reports As is standard procedure, the committee reports were presented first. Jared Squires, the Committee on Committee's ( CoC) chairman reported that the CoC will be making a decision on selections to fill the vacant finance committee positions within the week. Squires also apologies for the delay of the CoC bylaws and enswed that they will be ready bef<>re the next forum meeting. Shari Midoneck, junior trustee, reported that although nothing has recently occurred within the Board of Trustees, it will be meeting on April 12 and \O 13. The tentative agenda in- cludes approval of an architect for the college center and alumni gym. No student affairs council report was issued t because it has not met yet this <t: term. ~ term \expensive events,\ such as Camp Union. The crew club's request for an additional $500 was passed by the FC. A motion was made by Heckscher for the forum to allocate the funds. The motion passed unanimously, 14 yes. Also, a fund raising incentive program was proposed by Sophomore Representative Andrew George. Part of the proposal includes a matching fund clause: if the fund raising event is approved by the finance committee, then the raised funds will be matched (up to a specific amount) by the finance committee. Lastly, Heckscher announced his resignation this term due to personal reasons. Reluctantly, the forwn acknowledged his action. It was also announced at this time by Formn President Win Thurlow, that Junior Representative Brian Lau.x is to be chairman of the FC, with Sophomore Representative Andrew George as associate chairman. Though the titles denote a difference of im- portance in the two positions, Thurlow described Laux's Because Academic Affairs .a Council Representative Jamie _g Danziger was absent, no a. \' academic affairs council report Vice President for Finance Ben was given. However, Inter- Heckscher resigns. F r a t e r n i t y C o u n c i I position as one of \first among Representative (IFC), Joe equals.\ Bogan, reported that the IFC The focus of the meeting then had a meeting on April 2. It turned toward the subject of discussed party policy and the \old business.\ Improvements possibility of an escort service. in campus security was the \A..s you kn<lw, the New York focus of the meeting in which State Budget was recently Junior Representative Susan passed. The first year of TAP Brand, President Thurlow, parity passed, but un- Dean of Students, Joseph fortunately the four-year- Mammola, aud several other program was not,\ stated administrators took a walking Steven Benson, the independent tour of the campus, examining student coalition (ISC) places of poor lighting. As representative. With the Brand stated, \the ad- recently passed state budget, ministration seemed very regent scholarship payments receptive to our input.\ Also, as have been increased, along with passed at the March forum the maximum income limit and meeting, the ~ecurity and payment amounts. Also, a Safety Commission met with Vietnam veterans educational Sue Brand, Melissa Viglielmo assistance bill was passed. (student trustee), and Junior Vietnam vets can now go to both Representative Jacques Simon. public and private instituti<>ns Student input at this meeting tuiti<>n free. The ISC is now was also well received. setting its sights on next year's \Hopefully we will see action,\ state budget. added Brand. Heckscher then presented the The last area of discussion finance committee (FC) was \new business.\ Heckscher minutes. At its last meeting, the made two proposals at this finance committee went over point. the February Project Director's The first concerned a report-it lists the financial proposed change of mem- status of all student activities. bership in the Planning - and Presently, approximately 50 Priorities Group. Presently, percent of the student activities there are three student mem- budget has been spent, keeping bers. Heckscher proposed in mind the upcoming spring keeping three student mem· hers, but making one of those positions to be held by the student forum president. This way, the forum would have a \direct line of input\ to the group. A motion was made to the forum for passage of the proposal. It passed unanimously. The proposal will now go before the faculty for approval. Heckscher's last proposal concerned allowing students who graduate early to still participate in student activities Horizon Seven outstanding juniors majoring in science or engineering at Union have been chosen as General Electric Expanded Horizon Scholars for 1984-85. Those receiving scholarships will undertake research projects in university laboratories this summer and will continue those projects when they return to Union in the fall. A faculty advisor will aid the student both at the host university and at Union. The students selected are: David G. Barrett, a chemistry major from Willseyville, NY, who will study cyclophane chemistry under Professor Virgil Boekelheide in the Department of Chemistry at the University of Oregon, and at Union with William B. Martin, Jr., professor of chemistry; Steven Bertman, a chemistry major from Rochester, NY, who. will study cloud-water con- centrations of aldehydes under Dr. John A. Kadlecek of the Atmospheric Sciences Research Center of the State University of New York at Albany, and at Union with Leslie A. Hull, associate professor of chemistry; Karen J. Colucciello, a mechanical engineering major from Scotia, NY, who will study the effects of alloying on nitride em- brittlement of high chromium The computer center also suggests that students use the PRO 300 microcomputers which may be used for free. However, the disadvantage to that arrangement is that students must obtain software from the computer consultant or with undergraduate status without paying a student ac- tivities fee during the spring term following their graduation (see lead paragraph). A motion was also made for this proposal which was passed by the forum Scholars ferritic stainless steels under Pr!)fessor Roger N. Wright in the Materials Engineering Department at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and at Union under Frank Milillo, associate professor of mechanical 'engineering; Douglas C. Eddy, a mechanical engineering major from West Springfield, MA, who will study the design, calibration, and testing of a cloud-fog sample collector under Dr. John A. Kadlecek of the Atmospheric Sciences Research Center of the State University of New York at Albany, and at Union with Andrew F. Burke, visiting professor of mechanical engineering; Collin W. Green, a physics major from Win- chester, MA, who will study medical imaging with a limited angle positron camera under Professor B. L. Holman of the Harvard Medical School and Professor L. Osborne of the Physics Department at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and at Union with Gary Reich, assistant professor of physics; Joyce M. Harrington, a mechanical engineering major from Morris Plains, NJ, who will study stress relaxation in copper under Professor Roger N. Wright in the Materials Engineering Department at (13 Yes-1 No). Before the meeting ad- journed, Win Thurlow an- nounced a change in the forum's meeting times: they will now meet on Monday nights at 9:00 p.m., instead of 10:00 p.m. Chosen Rensselaer P-olytechnic Institute, and at Union with Filadelfo Panlilio, professor of mechanical engineering; and Christopher R. Hoople, an electrical engineering major from Wolcott, NY, who will study electronic charac- terization of semiconductor surfaces at the National Research and Resource characterization of semicon- ductor surfaces at the National Research and Resource Facility for Submicron Structures in the Knight Laboratory at Cornell University, and at Union with Herbert J. Kump, assistant professor of electrical engineering. Charles Scaife, professor of chemistry and· program director, said the students were chosen from among thirteen applicants nominated by departments by committee members Scaife, Kump, Milillo, Christopher Jones, and Robert W. Schaefer. Students will receive $2,500 summer stipends and travel funds from a $65,000 grant from the General Electric Foun- dation. The program is designed to encourage in- creased numbers of science and engineering students to enter graduate school and pursue teaching careers at colleges and universities. The Mathematics Department is conducting a third-year review of Professor Kimmo Rosenthal. Anyone who is interested in making Cl contribution to this evaluation is invited to do so by contacting Professor Zwicker at ·the Mathematics Department or at extension 6197. The Mathemat.ics Department is conducting a third-year review of Professor Julius Barbonel. Anyone who is interested in making a contribution to this evaluation is invited to do so by contacting Professor Seiken at the Mathematics Department or at extension 61 77. The Mathematics Department is conducting a third-year review of Professor Susan Niefield. Anyone who is interested in making a contribution to this evaluation is invited to do so by contacting Professor Taylor at the Mathematics Department or at extension 6192. The Biology Department is conducting a third-year review of the qualifications of Assistant Professor Robert Olberg in the areas of teaching, scholarship and College service. Members of the College community are invited to mail comments on Professor Olberg's performance in these areas to Professor F. L. Lambert, Room S-3 24, Science and Engineering Center. l j I . . ._!. ,:,'f i ! j ~ : I \ l , _I rr . I .. i i. , i i i ; , 1 f ~! I ] cc gt sa re st' th Ui VE jo as 11 re wl is Ui af T• n u ac in P< st fi.J w 1'€ ll.a la: M1 La Cl< El be au ne M Sa wl th ba b~ Jo Jc si: Ci of

- CONCORDI'ENSIS, Apri/5,./984 Registrar Schmidt Bids a Farewell to Alma Mater By SARAH CALDERINI Staff ' Imagine being in chatge of courses, .. schedul~ng, student gtac:tes, and the recording of said grades. Thus, being responsible for handling every .student's academic portfolio. At the end of this academic year, Union will say farewell, to a very important man, one whose job incorporates all of these aspects of college life .and more. This man is · in great .part responsible for getting 'Union ---whel.\eit stands today .. Thisman is Calvin Schmidt, the registrar. been two positions, that of the registrar and that of · the recorder. The registrar handled registration and_ course scheduling while the recorder handled student grades and transcripts .. However, Sch- midt's position gave new meaning to the title of registrar: he combined both existing off~ces into one position. He is directly responsible for creating the office of the registrar as Union knows it today, limited.'' Since this first computer, Urtion has seen a few more which, along with Sch- midt's helphave paved the way fvr Union's present computer. So, \the man behind the scenes,\ the man wl:lo is in charge of so many things which affect Union students, is leaving the CollegeinJune. He has been with Union for 30 years. His hard work and dedication to the school is.appal.\ent in the fine job which he has done. Schmidt looks back on his years here with · fond memories and believes his work at Union Hhas been a rewarding experience.'' The student community wishes to thank him for all his efforts and dedication to the College during his many ·years of sel\- vice. Page.J ' Registrar Calvin Schmidt will retire after 30 years of service to Union. Schmidt graduated from Union in 19~1. In the fall of 19.54, after l.\eceiving his M.S. from Teacher's College of Columbia University, Schmidt retlU'ned to Union to take a position on the admissions staff; While serving in ,this capacity, he. was ap- pointe(! the first director of studeti't aid; now known as financial aid. - - \The decision makers at Union felt the need to create this new position . because the College was unde~going many changes,\ says Schmidt. Upon Schmidt's arrival to the office of tqe registrar. Union did not own a- school computer. Student gl.\ades and registration were recol.\ded on punch cards which had to be hand sorted.. The school· later realized that it needed a more efficient system to handle these responsibilities. Campuses are Pro-Hart Position of Registrar In August of 1964, Schmidt was appointed to the position of registrar. Previously, there. had Schmidt recalls the first computer as ''mal\king the coming of a new era at Union, but it was still very slow and (CPS) When a Ionely candidate named Gary Hart . visited Albany in May, 1983, Governor Mal.\io Cuomo was too busy to see him. In Memoriam. Three Union College students have passed away during the last month. Brian P. Muldowney, 20, of Saranac Lake, N.Y., a member of the Class of 1986, died March 1 in Ellis Hospital, where he had been hospitalized following a.n _ auto accident on February 24 near the campus. Mr. Muldowney was a graduate of Saranac Lake High School where he sen'ed as captain of the football, basketball, and baseball teams. He is survived by hiS parents, Mr. and Mrs. John J. Muldowney, a_brother, John, of SYJ.\acuse; and three sisters, M;aureen and Mal.\ilyn of Cincinnati, Ohio, and Patricia, of Cambridge, Mass. Lawrence J. Hirsch, 20, of New York City, a member of the Class of 1985 died in New York on March 27, ,following a long illness. Mr. Hirsch was iii at- tendance at the College fol.\ the Fall1983term but was unable to return because of illness. A graduate of the Bronx Hi,gh School of Science, Mr. Hirsch was a liberal arts major at Union and a membel\ of Hillel. He is survived. by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Paul Hirsch, and a brother, Robert. Christopher H. Breedlove; 21, of Albany, a member of the Class of 1985., died Saturday, March 21, in St. Petel.\'s Hospital, Albany, where he had been hospitalized for a short period ·of time. Mr. Breedlove was majoring in electl\ical engineering and was a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers. He graduated from Christian Brothers Academy, Albany, in 1981. Survivors include his parents, Mr. and Mrs.· Horace F. Bl.\eedlove; two brothers, Brian and Gregory, a member of the Class of 1975 at Union; and five sistel.\s Carleen, Mary, Alisa, Laura, and Jill, a member of the Class of 1984 at Union. Funeral services were conducted on Monday at Holy Cross Church, Albany. Burial was in Our Lady of Angels Cemetery, Colonie. The Alumni Council is u·rging seniors to run for the positions of Class Representatives. The Council is the governing board of the Alumni of Union. Each. graduating class elects i two Represen- tatives to the Council. These alumni, through committee work and periodic Council m.eetlngs, provide an import ant input to the College decision making process. . . . Elections for the two positions w·ill take place on Fraday, Aprtl 13, on the 2nd floor of carnegie Hall, between the hours of 9 a.m. and ·4 p.m. Only seniors are allowed to vot~. . . , Nominating petitions will be available m the Alumna Off.1ce on Monday, April2 through Tuesday, April10 and must be e~dor~ed by 25 classmates. Petitions must be returned to the Alumm Off1ce by 3:00p.m. on Tuesday, AprillO. All nominees should submit their pictures and sta.tements to CONCOR Dl E NSIS .by 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday, April 10. Pictures can be taken ·by CON COR PI ENS IS. Questions should be directed to Edie Berkowitz, Director of Alumn-i Programs, at 370-6168. . . . Hart's organizers gave up trying to book a room at the State University of New York- Albany (SUNYA) campus because, as one organizer remembers it, they were worried the candidate could not draw a crowd big enough te> fill one. Things have changed. In the weeks before the April 3 New York primary, the campus chapter Gf Americans with Hart had about 100 volunteers, about 40 of whom were \active says Michael Schmall, the campus campaign's co-coordinator. And while there is student support for both Walter Mon· dale and Jesse Jackson on the campus, Patty Salkin, the of- ficially uncommitted head of the Albany State Young Democ11ats, concedes that ''from what I've seen and personal contact, I'd say there's a lot of student interest in Hart.\ Indeed, for the first time since 1972, a Democratic presidential candidate seems to have caught fire among a broad cross sec- tion of students al.\ound the countl\y. Over 5;000 students heard Hart speak at the University of Tilinois two weeks ago. About 1,200 showed up to listen to him at Cal-Berkeley, while another 300 couldn't get in. During the Mass-achusetts primary, Hart handily won student precincts ih Amherst. Now Eric Schwartz, Hart's youth coordinator, speaks of mobilizing a nationwide volunteer col.\ps of 10,000 students to match Walter Mondale's volunteers from organized labor. · At Marquette, Hart seems to be drawing a lot of support on a campus that is \about 00 per- cent Rep11blican,\ reports Kevin Jereczek, president of Marquette's Young Democrats' chapter. With the possible exception of schools in New York and Pennsylvania, adds the nominally uncommitted Dave Sinith of Young Democrats' headquarters in Washington, D.C., \campuses are pro-Hart as opposed to Mondale.\ \I sense a gl.\eat lack of en- thusiasm andlack of inspiration for Mondale,\ says Cathy Campbell, :Berkeley's student body president. Campbell believes Hart's \spunk\ and faithful evocation of the Kennedy style probably help attract student support as much as anything. Mondale's student organizers contend their volunteers are more concerned with issues than Hart's. \Students who look at the issues and not at appearance are .swinging to Mondale,\ claims Valerie White, national student coordinator at Mondale headquarters in Washington. Mondale's campus sup- porters, adds Sean O'Brien of SUNY A's Students for Mondcile chapter, are more \com· mitted\ than Hart's. \Rather than jwnping on the band- wagon, they are a determined group.\ In a sort of revel.\se band- wagon effect, O'Brien says \we got 10 new members\ after Hart beat Mondale in the New Hampshire primary in early March. \Since New Hampshire, (the campaign) has really started to l.\oll adds Schmall of Hart's campus group. Schmall says he has 40-45 active volunteers. O'Brien says he has 30. Both have been courting student support - and the im· mensely valuable free labor that comes with it - for a long time. Hart, for example, made campaign hops through nor· thern California and Colorado campuses '3S early as spring, 1982. Hart spoke against the nuclear arms buildup to Univel.\sity of Denvel.\ students in May, 1982. The month before, Mondale delivered the same message at Yale. Mondale and his family have worked campuses in all the big caucus and primal.\y states for the last two years. Hart's l.\each -has been a little shorter, due primarily to having less money to spend. Still, by last November, Patti Gl.\ogan president of the national Young Democrats, told College Press Sel.\Vice ''There is no student candidate. No one has really touched the hearts and minds of students across the nation.\ The early primaries and caucuses appear tG have changed that. \I think there is a revival of student activism,\ contends Chris Phillips, a Hart national student support coordinator. ''Student activism is coming around a little bit,\ says Brian Gl.\ossman president of the University of IDinois' College Democrats, of the campus suppOrt for Hart. But \we still have a little way to go to get students involved.\ Involved or not, students historically don't vote. Only 30 percent of the registered college-aged voters actually cast ballots in the 1980 presidential race.

I : :::t . \ l: u : I 11 ' { 1 l ; ! ~ 1 l ! l rl ti l I ' / - CONCORDIENSIS, AprilS, 1984 Registrar Schmidt Bids a Farewell to Alma Mater By SARAH CALDERINI Staff Imagine being in charge of co11rses, scheduling, student grades, and the recording of sa,[d grades. Thus, being responsible for handling every student's academic portfolio. At the end of this academic year, Union will say farewell, to a very important man, one whose job incor-porates all of these aspects of college life and more. 'This man is in great part responsible for getting Union where it stands today. This man isCalvinSchmidt, the registrar. been two positions, that of the registrar and that of the recorder. The registrar handled registration and course scheduling while the recorder handled student grades and transcripts. However, Sch- midt's position gave new meaning to the title of registrar: he combined botn exi:sti:ng offices inte one positi:on. He is directly responsible for creating the office of the registrar as Union knows it today. limited.\ Since this first computer, Union has seen a few more which, along with Sch- midt's help have paved the way for Union's present co1nputer. So, ''the man behind the scenes,\ the man who is in charge of so many thlngs which affect Union students, is leaving the College in June. He has been with Union for 30 years. His hard work and dedication to the school is apparent in the fine job which he has done. Schmidt looks back on his years here with fond memories and believes his work at Union \has been a rewarding experience.\ The student community wishes to thank him for all his efforts and dedication to the College during his many years of ser- vice. Page3 \. ... ~ Registrar Calvin Schmidt wi II retire after 30 years of service to Union. Schmidt graduated from Union in 1951. In the fall of 1954, after receiving his M.S. from Teacher's College of Columbia University, Schmidt returned to Union to take a position on the admissions staff. While serving in this capacity, he was ap- pointed the first director of student aid; now known as financial a,id. \The decision makers at Union felt the need to create this new pCJsition because the College was undergoing many changes,\ says Scnmidt. Upon Schmidt's arrival to the office of the registrar. Union did not own a school computer. Student grades and registration were recorded on J')UHch cards which had to be hand sorted. The school later realized that it needed a more efficient system to handle these responsibilities. Campuses are Pro-Hart Position of Registrar In August of 1964, Schmidt was appointed to the position of registrar. Previously , there had Schmidt recalls the first computer as \marking the coming of a new era at Union, but it was still very slow and (CPS) When a lonely candidate named Gary Hart visited Albany in May, 1983, Governor Mario Cuomo was too busy to see him. In Memoriam Three Union College students have passed away during the last month. Brian P. Muldowney, 20, of Saranac Lake, N.Y., a member of the Class of 1986, died March 1 in Ellis Hospital, where he had been hospitalized following an auto accident on February 24 near the campus. Mr. Muldowney was a graduate of Saranac Lake High School where he served as captain of the football, basketball, and baseball teams. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. John J_ Muldowney, a brother, John, of Syracuse; and three sisters, Maureen and Marilyn of Cincinnati, Ohio, and Patricia, of Cambridge, Mass. Lawrence J. Hirsch, 20, of New York City, a member of the Class of 1985 died in New York on March 27, following a long illness. Mr. Hirsch was in at- tendance at the College for the Fal11983 term but was unable to return because of illness. A graduate of the Bronx High SchCJol of Science, Mr. Hirsch was a liberal arts major at Union and a member of Hillel. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Paul Hirsch, and a brother, Robert. Christopher H. Breedlove, 21, of Albany, a member of the Class of 1985, died Saturday, March 21, in St. Peter's Hospital, Albany, where he had been hospitalized for a short period of time. Mr. Breedlove was majoring in electrical engineering and was a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers. He graduated from Christian Brothers Academy, Albany, in 1981. S11rvivors include his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Horace F. Breedlove; two brothers, Brian and Gregory, a member of the Class of 1975 at Union; and five sisters, Carleen, Mary, Alisa, Laura, and Jill, a member of the Class of 1984 at Union. Funeral services were conducted on Monday at Holy Cross Church, Albany. Burial was in Our Lady of Angels Cemetery, Colonie. The Alumni Council is urging seniors to run for the positions of Class Representatives. The Council is the governing board of the Alumni of Union. Each graduating class elects two Represen- tatives to the Council. These alumni, through committee work and periodic Council meetings, provide an important input to the College decision making process. . _ Elections for the two positions will take place on Fnday, Apr11 13, on the 2nd floor of Carnegie Hall, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. Only seniors are allowed to vot~. . . Nominating petitions will be available 1n the Alumm Ofhce on Monday, April 2 through Tuesday, April 10 and must be en_dor~ed by 25 classmates. Petitions must be returned to the A.lumn• Offtce by 3:00p.m. on Tuesday, AprillO. All nominees should submit their pictures and statements to CONCORDIENSIS by 7:00p.m. on Tuesday, April 10. Pictures can be taken by CON CORDI EN SIS. Questions should be directed to Edie Berkowitz, Director of Alumni Programs, at 370-6168. ' Hart's organizers gave up trying to book a room at the State University of New York- Albany (SUNYA) campus because, as one organizer remembers it, they were worried the candidate could not draw a crowd big enough to fill one. Things have changed. In the weeks before the April 3 New York primary, the campus chapter of Americans with Hart had about 100 volunteers, about 40 of whom were \active says Michael Schmall, the campus campaign's co-coordinator. And while there is student support for both Walter Mon- dale and Jesse Jackson on the campus, Patty Salkin, the of- ficially uncommitted head of the Albany State Young Democrats, concedes that \from what I've seen and personal contact, I'd say there's a lot of student interest i.:n Hart.\ Indeed, for the first time since 1972, a Democratic presidential candidate seems to have caught fire among a broad cross sec- tion of students around the country. Over 5,000 students hear-d Hart speak at the University of illinois two weeks ago. About 1,200 showed up to listen to him at Cal-Berkeley, while another 300 couldn't get in. During the Massachusetts primary, Hart handily won student precincts in Amherst. Now Eric Schwartz, Hart's youth coordinator, speaks of mobilizing a nationwide volunteer corps of 10,000 students to match Walter Mondale's volunteers from organized labor. At Marquette, Hart seems to be drawing a lot of support on a campus that is \about 80 per- cent Republican,\ reports Kevin Jereczek, president of Marquette's Young Democrats' chapter. With the possible exception of schools in New York and Pennsylvania, adds the nominally uncommitted Dave Smith of Young Democrats' headquarters in Washington, D.C., \campuses are pro-Hart as opposed to Mondale.\ \I sense a great lack of en- thusiasm and lack of inspiration for Mondale,\ says Cathy Campbell, Berkeley's student body president. Campbell believes Hart's \spunk\ and faithful evocation of the Kennedy style probably help attract student support as much as anything. Mondale's student organizers contend their volunteers are more concerned with issues than Hart's. \Students who look at the issues and not at appearance are swinging to Mondale,\ claims Valerie White, national student coordinator at Mondale headquarters in Washington. Mondale's campus sup- porters, adds Sean O'Brien of SUNY A's Students for Mondale chapter, are more \com- mitted\ than Hart's. \Rather than jumping on the band- wagon, they are a determined group.\ In a sort of reverse band- wagon effect, O'Brien says \we got 10 new members\ after Hart beat Mondale in the New Hampshire primary in early March. \Since New Hampshire, (the campaign) has really started to roll,\ adds Schmall of Hart's campus group. Schmall says he has 40-45 active volunteers. O'Brien says he has 30. Both have been cour-ting student support - and the im- mensely valuable free labor that comes with it - for a long time. Hart, for example, made campaign hops through nor- thern California and Colorado campuses -as early as spring, 1982. Hart spoke against the nuclear arms buildup to University of Denver students in May, 1982. The month before, Mondale delivered the same message at Yale. Mondale and his family have worked campuses in all the big caucus and primary states for the last two years. Hart's reach bas been a little shorter, due primarily to having less money to spend. Still, by last November, Patti Grogan, president of the national Young Democrats, told College Press Service, \There is no student candidate. No one bas really touched the hearts and minds of students across the nation.\ The early primaries and caucuses appear to have changed that. \I think there is a revival of student activism,\ contends Chris Phillips, a Hart national student support coordinator. ''Student activism is coming around a little bit,\ says Brian Grossman, president of the University of illinois' College Democrats, of the campus support for Hart. But \we still have a little way to go to get &11dents involved.\ Involved or not, students historically don't vote. Only 30 percent of the registered college-aged voters actually cast ballots in the 1980 presidential race. l . > .::(. rJ) c E ro ~ > ...... ...... ro ..J > .J:l 0 - 0 .s:::. 0.

Page4 CONCORDIENSfj: Apri/5, 198-1 > ..l< cr c: E It: ~ > .... .... Ill ...J >- .0 0 - 0 .c a. Junior David Lindquist, Leukemia Representa.tive Deborah Casaceli, Fiji Brother Chris Hutchins, and Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa at IFC meeting congratulating swimat.hon par- ticipants. Swimathon Raises Funds On Feb. 26, Union's Inter- Fraternity (IFC) and Panhellenic Councils sponsored a special Leukemia Super Swim Classic to benefit local leukemia patients and research-. This event was held in Union's swimming pool. $3,000 Raised were awarded to Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity for raising over $400 and for having the largest turnout of 21 par- ticipants. Other fraternities and facilitated the program. At the March 28 meeting of the IFC at 8 p.m. in the forum room in Carnegie . f!all, Casaceli distributed the prizes awarded to various swimathon par- ticipants. If a swimmer raised more than $25, he or she received a teshirt. If over $50 was raised by an individual, a checkbook calculator was awarded to that person. AACViewed By JAN BARAN Associate News Editor Concerns with the curriculum, the number of faculty, and the availability of majors offered have an been discussed by the Academic Affairs Council (AAC). This council, which meets every Monday in. the Science and Engineering Conference room, recently voted on the class list system at Union. Originally, the list system was regarded by many students as unfair because the priorities for admitting students on a Ust basis were unclear and previously unpublicized. The proposal, approved by the AAC on March 26, 1984, included the understanding tha.t the priorities for admittance into the courses would be posted before the actual list itself. Problems with the list system during the last preregistration have also been considered with the understanding that the various academic departments would comply with the stan~ dards set by the AAC. Another concern of the March 26 meeting was the situation where actual enrollment ex- ceeded expected enrollment in a course not limited by the r~gistrar. Whil.e the · AAC recognized that an excess of ·students in certain courses could be a problem, the AAC also wanted. to avoid cancelling a student's preregistration for a class if at all p6S$ible. The agenda for the spring term will consist .of two major concerns. First, the council WiU discuss faculty loading; This item on ,the agenda entails the nunnber of courses taught by each professor. In addition, the distribution of faculty members among the various departments will also be considered this term. Chairman of the council, Professor Dwight Phaup of the economics department, noted that the distrlbution would be - discussed specifically when a special request bad been received from an academic depart_ment. The council is made up of seven faculty members with Phaup as chairman. Four oLthe sev~n :members are . elected from each of the four academic divisions. There are also three ·faculty members chosen at large to serve on the council. Other members of the council include three administrative members (only two of which hawe a vote,) and four student members chosen by the Committee on Committees. · Nearly $3,000 was raised by 65 participants who collected pledges on a per lap basis. Swimmers were awarded prizes according to the largest amounts of ~ money they collected. sororities also participated in the swimathon. Among them were Sigma Chi which raised $351 with four swimmers;. Beta Theta Pi with $188; Theta Delta Chi, $141; Delta Gamma, $108; Psi Upsilon, $92; and Delta Upsilon with a donation of $75. Two Schenectady residents not affiliated with Union also participated in the event. Melody Bailey, a senior at Linton High School, raised a total of $377 and swam 20 laps. Amy Weber of University Place, raised $133 and swam 100 laps. Students Study in Mexico· JWiior David Lindquist, a member of Kappa Sigma Fraternity, was the grand prize winner of a SONY trinitron television. Lindquist raised $399 and swam a total of 100 twenty- five yard laps. Two kegs of beer donated by -McNeatney Distributors Inc., Deborah. Casaceli, a representative from tne Leukemia Society of America, . Continued from page 1 The Mexican families are carefully screened by the center and are prepared ti> host a foreign student. Many of the families will have Mexican children of university age. Generatly, most of the faJUijies will not speak English so students should quickly learn CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS Chinese Art Lecture Donald R. Thurston, professor of history and political science at Union, will lecture on \Chinese Landscape Painting\ at 7:30 p.m. on April 12 at th.e Schenectady Museum. The lecture is sponsored by the International Center of the Capital Region. Admission is $1. Thurston teaches courses on Chinese history and politics. He has studied with Professor Chu Tsing-li, a leading Chinese art historian, and with Professor John Hay at Harvard. In 1981 he studied original Chinese paintings at the National Palace Museum in Taipei. Summer Enrichment Program Summerskill, Union's summer enrichment program offered through the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies, begins July 9 providing a variety of courses for students grades 4 through 10. The program is offered in two sessions, one July 9-20 and the other., July 23-August 3. Students in grades 6 .. 10 are on campus from 8:30a.m. to 3:45 p.m. Monday through Friday, with their day including two courses, lunch and recreational activities. Students entering grades 4 and 5 are at Union from 8:30 to noon, with two classes, a snack and recreation period scheduled. Course topics include word processing, programming, rocketry and ballooning;. earth science, sCientific creativity, computer electronics, theater workshop, introduction to journalism, artistic im-, pressions, creative writing, LOGO for young people, great books, Latin, math, and the art of portraiture. To register or obtain further information, contact the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies, Wells House, Union 1 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308, 370- 6288. Deadline is June 30. Contingency Grant Received A $25,000 presidential con- tingency grant has been received by Union from the Exxon Educatioll Fomdation. The grant, to be used at the discretion of President JohnS. Morris, may be used for any educational purpose or program at Union, \We are · honored by Exxon's ·en- dorsement·of Union as a quality educational institution,'' said President Morris. \The funds will b~ well-used to help preserve that quality and en- sure its continuation in the future.\ Visiting Professor Named • F.aYe Dudden, visiting assistant professor of history, has been appointed John D. MacArthur Assistant Professor of History at Union, President John S; MortiS has annoUnced. The appointment is effective Sept. 1. Dudden is a graduate of Cornell University and earned M.A .. and Ph.D. degrees at the University of Rochester. In addition, she lias taught at Cazenovia College and the University of Miami. She also has been historian at the National Women;s Hall of Fame in Seneca Falls, N.Y., and . historian-in-residence at The 1980 House Museum and Center for the Arts in Cortland; N.Y. Her areas of specialization are 19th-century American social and cultural history and the history of American women's work. She is the author of Serving Women: Household Service in Nineteenth-century America, published recently by the Wesleyan University Press. The MacArthur Chair is made possible by a grant from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation of Chicago to assist the work of · new and promising faculty at Union. Serchuck Named to Board Jerome S. Serchuck has been named to the Trustee Board of Advisors at Union. This Board acts as an adjunct to the trustees in promotfug the in· terests of Union. It is a proponent of Union in its relationship with external commmities and serves as a reservoir of diverse individual knowledge and talent. \Mr. Ser~huck joins in this endeavor with other distin~hed alumni and friends of Union who bave performed especially noteworthy service to the College,'' said College President John S. Morris. how to communicate in Spanish. Mail will be received at the cultural center, and not at the families' homes, in order to make things easier. The in- stitute .also provides a phone from which students can make calls . directly to the United 1 States. A doctor is available at' the center, for a fee of one dollar, if any illnesses occur. If someone is seriously iil, the doctor will even make hoUse cans: Field trips will be provided by the cultural center on the weekends, of which Union students are encouraged to take advantage, as well as the planned field trips that Nichols will be guiding. Cuerl)avaca is . located 5() miles southwest of Mexico City so that trips into the city will be relatively easy. The town itself is located on the side of an inactive volcano, at an altitude of 70,000 feet. People with high blood pressure, heart conditions or asthma are recommended to check with their physicians before entering the program. Nichols says that, \The mountain climate is wonderful, the air is pollution free and the narrow _winding streets, with the stucco houses are quite pretty.\ He admits, though, that, \It is not a resort town and it is not · without · modern problems, such as unemployment.'' Students going on the Mexican term abroad should be aware that the social life out- side the institute is much more restricted than what one is accustomed to in· the United States. Union women will find that their father will not permit . them to go out unchaperoned. In addition: Mexican authorities are, according to Nichols, \hell on wheels with reference to drugs.\ Unless someone wants to spend their term abroad in a Mexican jail, \doing drugs'' is not advised. On the other hand Nichols says, \Mexican P..eE1r is really good\ and remember there is n9 drinking age in Mexico. Still, says Nichols, \Mexicans do -not tolerate drunkenness.'' Those interested in the Cuernavaca term abroad should get their applications in by April26, 1984. There will be a meeting that afternoon at 4:30 p.m. where details will be discussed and copies of the -'Cuernavaca guide on how to act in Mexico will be distributed. The cost of the program will be $3,790 (approximately the cost of a tenn on campus) which covers tuition, board, room, and the administrative ex- penses. The cost of an airline tick;et is the responsibility of each student. Those trying to save money may take the long route of a train OI\ a bus into Mexico. Students are strongly discouraged from driving into Mexico because of the problems involved in being responsible for a car down there, as well as insurance costs. In terms of spen'd.ing money, Americans will be happy to know that the dollar is extremely strong and that the Mexican peso will go a long way. All and all it sounds like another great term abroad program at Union, so one is well advised to submit applications early as only twenty students will be accepted for this· winter program. CAMP UNION Organizational Meeting Thursday, April 5th 1:30 p.m .. • Stage II If you cannot make the meeting and want to help, send your name, phone, and address to: Box 2548. ( ] s v 1', 11 I t i l i .1 .J

CONCORDIENSIS, A.pri/5, 1984 Chadwick· resigns • • • Replacements Interviewed By GAYLE ROSENFELD News Editor On January 4, 1984, Assistant Director of Security and. Safety Christopher Chadwick sub- mitted his letter of resignation, effective January 17, to ·:Director of Security and Safety Clifford Wood. His reason for leaving, asserted Wood, was that \he wanted to finish his education.\ · · assistaat director of security and safety. As to fUrther plans, Chadwick is considering industrial security work, noted Wood. He is also directing bis studies towatd the computer field. Added Wood, \I could recommend him very highly for any position he should seek.\ Wood had nothing but praises to convey for aU of Chadwick's devotion to the College. John Katraba. Fitzgerald is now among the final four candidates. The job of assistant director of ·security and safety has been changed since Chadwick's resignation. It is no longer an hourly wage .position, tnus, the ''trustees have to vote on who we hire,\ said Wood. However, if all.goes as scheduled, Wood is hopeful that Chadwick's replacement will be named within the next couple of .weeks. Psge5 Director of Security and Safet.y Clifford Wood discusses interview proc~ss. Chadwick had been attending classes at Union to acquire his degree for the· last few years, but according to College policy, ~ degree must be completed within a ten year span or cer- tain courses must be retaken. This June will mark the end of this ten year period for Chad- wick so he decided to attend Union as a full tfine student to Applicants for the now vacant assistmt dir.ector of security and safety position at Union are nuw beingc interviewed. Out of fifty applications, twenty people were interviewed. This number - has recently been narrowed down ;t() four possibilities. \The .four are now being interviewed around the can pus,\ said Wood. They will be reViewed by Dean of Students Joseph Mammola, Vice President for Finance John H~user, Faculty Trustee Rudy Nydegger and Affir- mative Action Director Diane Winkler. New Courses ORered . avoid repeating. classes. \A lot of l~yalty\ \He has a lot of loyalty to this school;'' .said Wood. He began working at Union on Feb. 25, 1914 as a campus officer .. On March 10, 1974 ne became a !!]e~ant and then on Oct. 1~,. 1978 he was promoted to ad- ministrative sergeant. Finally on March 8, 1982, he was ap- pointed to his final post as Said Wood, \We had very good applicants. They all had experie11ce andthey all had the educati()nal background.\ or the fifty applicants, two are presently employed by Union's security deP.artment, Sergeant Pierce Fitzgerald and Sergeant By LINDA RAFFAELE Staff Two new hiStory courses will be .offered in the spring of 1985 at Union. The first, to be en- titled \Mlnorities in America,'' will be . taught by Professor Robert Wells. This class will concentrate on the five major minority groups in America: Blacks, Indians, Hispanics, Asiatics, and Europeans. The C.9tlfS.!L will look at the histor'ical experience of each of the five groups and then compare these experiences,\ says Wells. He explains, \All of these groups have main elements in their stories that need to be tolq, i.e. the inflaence of Slavery on Black culture an4 the influence of reservation life on the American Indians. ·The course will look at and discuss these key topics.\ The second class is called '_'High-Tech History:Computers and Historical Analysis.'' It will be taught by both Wells .and Professor Steven Sargent. According to Sargent, the-- course has two main purposes: who concentrates on European History, have used computers in their own personal research. f\'_\'\\\\W, Hospice lecturer to Speak \First of all, to have students understand what historians are using computers for, and secondly, to give the students . some practical e:xperienee in the use of computers for historical analysis.\ The enrolhnent in this second course is limited to 15 students and will be taught as a seminar. However, although use of computers is an essential part of the course, no previous computer training is necessary. Students will make use of St'SS p~ograms tq anal~e hist()rical data and draw conclusions. Professor of History Robert Wells. \Not many realize that com- puters are used in historical analysiS today. We would like to expose students to the possibilities available to them,\ says Sargent. He also adds that he is thinking of inviting speakers from other schools to speak on the subject of com- puters in historical research artd analysis. On Thursday, April 12, Program Director of St. Peters' Hospice Ihge Corless will be speaking in the fourth floor loungE) of Carnegie Hall at 7 p.m. on \Loss and the College Student.!' Admission is free and all are encoQ.raged to attend. Dr. Corless is a graduate of the Bellevue School\ of Nursing in New York City. Sbe earned her bachelor's degree in Nur- sing from Boston University, earned a master's degree in sociology from the University of Rhode Island, and received: her doctorate from Brown University. . She has received special training in the field of \death and dying.\ In addition to work at Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases in New York, Corless served an internship in the Palliative Care Unit, Royal Victorial Hospital, ·M{}ntreal, Canada, during the spring of 1979. Former positions held by Corless include instructor in Socioll)gy at Russell Sage College and Assistant Professor of Nursing at UniVersity of Michigan School of Nursing. She was appointed. Program Direct()I' of St. Peter's Hospice in September of 1979. Corless is a Fellow of the Ameriean Academy of Nursing, has served on the Board of Directors of the New York State Hospice Association; is a member of the Research and Evaluation Committee of the National Hospice Association and serves on the editorial board of Death Education. A lecturer at various universities, colleges, and organizations across the country, Corless attempts to convey her thoughts while opening up the floor for discussion. Her lectures are relaxed and informal as she desires to allow her audience's views to be heard and discussed. \ Rock-N-Roll Pizza 8-cut large cheese pizza 6-cut small che.ese pizza $4.85 $3.75 Subs Mixed$2.25 Ham $2.25 Turkey $2.50 Roast-Beef $2.50 Tuna $2 • .50 - Tuna $2.25 Cal/370-6060 Free Delivery ·Coming Soon: The Good Pizza Man Watch for him! I At Union, Corless will look at loss as it relates to · college students in various ways, such as loss through death, separation, and the general displacement from a home environment into the college world. Both Wells, who specializes in American History and Sargent, Trustees' Role Ex.amined EyJUDIESTE~DT Staff The Board of Trustees is the main governing body of Union. The board consists of thirty-five trustees. including life trustees who are appointed from the trustees with an unlimited term, regUlar term trustees, alumni trustees, campus trustees (two faculty members and two .students), and the president of the College. SpecHic Functions The board is divided into six committees, each with a separate and specific function. Although the committees work somewhat separately, the Board of Trustees meets four times a year to discuss and vote on all the issues. Because these six committees initiate the final actions taken by the board, the roles of these bodies need to be understood. The Academic Affairs Committee, not to be confused with the Academic Affairs Council, \approves everything that has to do with academics,\ according to Junior Trustee Shari .Midoneck. It approves tenure, grants promotions, new faculty, and awards degrees. The College Resources Committee ( CRC) raises and organizes· Union's funds. CUrrently, this committee is interested in .increasing the endowment, which is the money Union has available in trust. To increase the endowment, the CRC has been employing the Campaign for Union, a seven- year plan. Other duties of the coilllllittee include reports on the. money raised }?y the annual fund and public relations. The Finance Committee \oversees investments done with the endowment,'; sum- marized Midoneck. Union's endowment presently is above forty million dollars and the money from this endowment is invested by a company em· ployed by the College. Some of the mtmey made from the in· vestments is returned back to the endowment while part goes into the budget. The school is working diligently to increase the endowment which will in turn decrease the College's financial dependency on tuition. At the present time, about seventy-five percent of the budget is paid by tuition and thirty percent by other factors, such as the annual fund, grants, and part .of the endowment interest. As part of its responsibilities, the committee is also responsible for planning the major projects, such as the future college center and alumni gym renovations. The members of the committee want to ''make sure that the weight of the financing of these projects does not fall totally on the students' shoulders,'' says Midoneck. The Student Affairs Com· mittee \oversees the goings on of the students,\ continues Midoneck. The members of this committee are responsible for all non-academic aspects of student life. Currently, plans are being made for the development of a new student center. Past actions of the committee include discovering the need for more dorm space. To overcome this problem, it suggested tlle building of more rooms in Fox and Davidson dormitories. The committee also oversees the Career Counseling Center, fraternity activities, and the student activities fee. The Buildings, Grounds, and Equipment Committee is responsible for any buildings constructed on campus, the upkeep of the grounds, and the administration of other property owned by the school. Pcesently, the committee is trying to sell Giding Center because it requires expensive upkeep and is not used enough to be worth the expenditlll'e, in the view of the committee members. Approving tbe Budget The Budget and Audit Committee is in charge of \approving the budget for the coming academic year,\ says Midoneck. This group calculates the amount tuition needs to be raised each year. It is also responsible for the financing of projects in the budget such as improvements on the computer science center and the construction of new labs. Midoneck describes the members of the committee as \very educated on finances and budgets.'' This committee formUlates the budget using tuition and the money raiSed by the Finance Committee and the CRC. The major issues before the board right now are the con- struction ora college center and the renovation of alumni. gym. The members are discussing how these projects can be financed and what they will involve.

Page 6 CONCORDIENS!S, Aprii5,19H4 FEATURES Housi:ng's New Member By MAUREEN COLEMAN Staff ' Marguerite Sharkey is the newest addition to the Residence Life Staff. Marguerite accepted the position of Chief Coordinator- Resident Direct~r in February and has since resided in the West College apartment as a full-time staff member. The recently completed \West College Office,\ located on first floor, north side of West, is simply an extension of the Residence Life Office, com- mitted mainly to the super- vision of West College, Rich- mond and North College residence halls. Dave Wood, Associate Dean of Residence Life, explained that Marguerite's position signifies an attempt to decentralize the Residence Life• Office and provide support for RA's and students through a professional who is available at all hours. Marguerite is responsible for managerial and counseling aspe'cts of operating West, Richmond, and North. In ad- dition', she will supervise and evaluate Resident Adisers and help coordinate R.A. selection, .training, and in-:service training. She has been <\P\ pointed advisor to the donn councils in all residence halls and now provides guidance which has long been nee.ded. Marguerite looks forward to .issuing a Dorm Coun~il Manual through the Residence Life Office. other Area Coordinator- Resident Director respon- sibilities inClude interpreting and enforcing rules, .super- vising activities within the residence halls, participation in residence hall programming, student consultations, and referrals to other offices of the college. As a student at Skidmore College, Marguerite was a member of the Residence Life staff for three years as a House Counselor, Resident Assistant, and finally as Head Resident. Her current position exercises both the interpersonal and administrative skills gained from her experiences at Skidmore. She has foWld her New WRUC Officers By DOUG LANDON WRUC Promotions Director A new tenn of programming is well Wlderway at WRUC, supervised by the newly elected executive board. A general meeting was held late last tenn, at which the membership elected leaders to serve through winter, 1985. Scott W~koff remains at the helm as general ~nager, and the station can look forward to a full year of his efficient leadership. Involved with the station for over two years now, Scott previously acted as sports director and news director. The new program director is sophomore John Euell, who held the post of acting director during the interim between former director Jeff Dinces' resignation and this election. John has demonstrated a bonafide interest in WRUC and its programming. Kathi Zuckerman was soundly reelected as business manager of the station, which indicates satisfaction with her performance from fellow station members. Also, we are assured of accurate well kept record books for the next year. This is Kathi's third term as business manager. Senior Geoff Tyre leaves the position of technical director in the capable hands of Mike Palmer. Mike has assisted Geoff for some time now and was the logical choice for succession. Fonner news director Doug Landon was elected director of promotions .. for the next tbree tenns. Eric Lipman previously held the position. Weekly radio shows and newscasts have been scheduled for the spring term, but a few openings may still be available. Contact John Euell if interested in serving as a DJ and Scott Elkind for newscast openings. The new executive board met for the first time Monday night, with department budgets for the 1984-85 school year taking the primary focus. New op- portunities for remote broad- casts, record hops and promotional ideas were also discussed. Also on Monday night, Scott Wykoff and Eric Lipman aired a special program analyzing the presidential candidate nomination process in an- ticipation of New York State's Democratic primary on Tuesday. Listen to WRUC-more giveaways should be coming up soon, and DJ's are always looking for requests from their audiences. Old favorites such as sports line and the award- winning 6: 15 news are being continued as well. Have a great spring term, and we'll keep you posted on the happenings and upcoming events of the alternative radio station, WRUC. Issue of the Issue By JUDI PHILIPSON Question: What is your favorite part of Spring Term? Chuck Pollard '85: ... bikinis on West Beach. Lyssa Mendelson '86: .... having lunch and cocktails at the clubhouse, after a round of golf on library field. Tom Higgins '84: ... outdoor porch parties and drinking beer in the sun. John Dakota 'fl4: .•. certain members of the student body lose the excess insulation acquired during Winter term. Carol Verden '86: ... sunning and socializing between classes in front of Carnegie and Library quad instead of rlinning to clasr witb heads down, too cold to even say hello. Tim Meyer '85: ... cranking tunes out the Window. Regan Cardamone '87: . . . waking up guys in South who go to sleep at 11:00 p.m. Jeffery Chess '86: ... Camp Union. Mike Bowman '85: ..• being able to be outside without protective clothing and equipment. Jennifer Thompson '86: ... being outside with my friends - and the parties. Sean Gilligan 85? • • • constant parties, plenty of sun, and know.ing that summer is right around the corner. position to be ''rewarding and challenging. I love it.'' Marguerite feels qualified for her job, and wants to continue work in student development as she hopes to get her master's in this area. Overall, Marguerite Sharkey in the position of Area Coor- dinator-Resident Director can be expected 'to make some changes Which Dave Wood sees as definitely \for the 'better.\ She will be able to spend time working dosely with RAs and students in a way which was not previously possible, and will hopefully give the dorm councils the· strength to \pull together and become a viable entity.\ The West College Office has a new face and a new position, with Marguerite Sharkey helping Residence Life to make some positive changes in life at Union. Marguerite Sharkey the new chief coordinator/resident director of Residence Life. <-- April9-14: Women's Week Women's Network and the Department of the Arts of Union College is sponsoring an exhibition: \Women's Art at Union.\ The show is held in conjunction with Women's Week activities at Union from April 9-14. The exhibition is comprised of photographs, drawings, paintings and prints executed through fall and winter terms by Union women artists, and will be displayed in · the lobby outside the temporary Kruesi Galleries in the Arts Building from April 9 - May 16, \Women's Art at Union\ in- eludes art works by Jill Bleifer, Jean Bradley, Jodi Cohen, Linda Fischer, Marie Guariniello, Sharon Gmelch, Shawne McCord, Susan Mettler, Beth Stinson, and Tina Tryforos. The reception is being held April 11, 4:30-6:30 in the galleries. Women's Week Schedule 1984 Monday, April9 · 8:00 p.m.-Movie: ''Miles To Go,\ Strauss Lounge Tuesday, AprillO . . 3-4:30 p.m.-Alumnae speak on \Life at Union,'' Old Chapel 5-7 p.m • .-Dinner and reception, Banquet Room-$3 student, $10 non-student · . 7:30-9 p.m.-Alumnae speak on \Life Mter Union,'' Old Chapel Reception following evening program Wednesday, Aprilll 12:45 p.m.-Mayor KarenJohnson speaks on \Women in Politics,\ Dutch.Hollow Pub, $4· 3:30 p.m.-Writer Toni Cade Bombara speaks, Humanities Lounge. Form and Themes in Current Women's Writing in the U.S. 4:30-6:30-See Carol ~·:00 p.m.-Writer Toni Cade Bombara reads from her works, Lower Hale House Lounge; reception following in Milano Lounge. Thursday, April12 . · · 3: 30-5 p.m.- Women's Support Group sponsors a workshop on \Conununication between Wom~n and Men led by Betsy·Osborn, Conference Rm. A. 7:00 p.m.-Inge Corless, program clirector of St. Peter's Hospice, speaks on loss and the college student F,riday, April 13 . · 3-5 p.m.-Gabriella Videla speaks ()D ''Women and Theology,'' .Conference Rm. A 8: 30 p.m.-Coffeehouse artd the Women's Network presents folksinger Chris Lavin Saturday,April14 . 10:30 a.m.- Women's Week brunch, with slide show of women in art, Strauss Lounge-Food Service. T -Shirts and Helaine Victoria postcards will be sold all week in Carnegie. Exhibit of women's art a~ Union will be on display all week in Arts Building. Communication between WOMEN&M.EN A Women's Week Discussion & Workshop Thursday ,.April 12 3:30-5 p.m. Sponsored by Women's Sup,po~t Group Discussion led by Betsy Osborn, ACSW .. - I.- Q) :J rc Ill Ill ..J c (J) ... Ill :i > .D 0 Ill 0 10 .~ J:: 0. .s::. v Cl) c .s::. a. l tO Q >- .D 0 .... 0 .s::. a. th bE fii CCI sp w J~ w itt th th Wt se he Je th R1 AJ Is: fU: to b~

' .. '. ~- •. . Assistant Dean Joanne Tobiessen, speaking on the lOth an- niversar'yofwomen graduates at Union, CONCORDIENSIS, AprilS, 1984 Page 7 FEATURES 10 Years: Women At Union By ANDREW CHANG . Staff Though Union CQliege was founded in 1795, it has been little more than a decade ago that women have been admitted. In commemoration, thene will he a banquet and panel ·discussions next Tuesday, April 10. The panel discussions will feature approximately a dozen graduates who will speak about life at Union during the first decade of coeducation and life after Union. Among the .professions to be represented include entrepreneur, af- firmative action specialist, engineer, computer systems analyst, manager, lawyer, research chemist, microbiologist, and im- munologist. Women in 1975. The group was formed largely through the efforts of Mrs. Bonner, wife of former President Bonner, who felt that the needs of these women should be attended to. Karla Hanson, who will be presenting the study says that the climate of the campus at the time was one of transition. She adds that, \ . . . while most faculty and alU11llli: favored coeducation, some strongly resented it.'' Kate White, class of '72, wrote in Glamour that she \ ... found herself smack in the middle of student revolts, women's lib and the sexual revolution.\ United Jewish Appeal At the buffet dinner, a study will be presented on a .survey of graduates from the classes of '74, '79, and '82. The study at- tempts to answer questions about life at Union, what careers the early women were interested in, and what, if any, are differences between the women of today and of a decade ago. The survey was conducted through telephone interviews by a social research methods class. One hundred thirty women · responded from the three classes plus a smaller sampling of men. · The study will be presented by Karla Hanson and will in- clude careers and possible employment in comparison with male counterparts. The first graduating class of '74 included four engineers while the class of '84 today includes 37. The program is sponsored by the President's Commission on the Status of Women with financial assistance from the offices of President Morris and Vice :eresident Rasmussen. D~.~ring the next two weeks, the United Jewish Appeal Will be running its educational and financial campaign across the campus. The UJA will be sponsoring a Jewish Awareness Week in cori.jtinction with the JSU during the week of Apri129. We are focusing our efforts to its goal of lrelping Jews throughout the world. Presently the agency provides hea1th, welfare, and rehabilitation services for the needy, aged, handicapped, and destitute Jews in 25 countries throughout the world, in places such as Russia, Eastern ·Europe, Soutll Africa, Asia, North Africa, Israel, and the United States. Approximately half of the funds raised by UJA is allocated to Israel and is dispersed there by the United Israel Appeal. , The UIA is engaged in helping new im· migrants receive tran,.. sportation to Israel and then helps in absorption. Funds are also spent on establishing new rural settlements throughout Israel. The agency also provides and finances various health services, educational programs, and housing programs. These funds to Israel are essential since the defense needs are necessarily such a large part of the Israeli govermnent budget. There is not much left over for social needs and UJA fills the finan- cial gap for these essential social programs. It shoUld be noted the UJA funds are never used for political or .military purposes, rather they. provide for human needs. STUDENTS· $$$ SA VE'$$$ Ecstasy Hair Design Quality Precision--Latest. Techniques in Haircare & Design Students save $3 on Haircut $10 on Perm ' Located next to P&C in Sheridan Plaza off R-osa Rd. & Gerling St. Call 346-5529 For a free .brochure and an Invitation to a free sample class covering !he exams and the College or Graduate Schools admission process, call now: . ( . 516 . 1 481 4034 Contact locally: · . · · • BeJh Swartz . 518·465-1703 Toll Free: 800•222·TEST orwrlte: Adelphi Univenlty Preparation Courses 307 Eagle Avanue, West Hempstead, NY 11552 On. a worldwide basis, UJA helps Jewish immigrants resettling in countries · other tban Israel, helps support .destitute Russian Jews and engages in various social programs throughout countries with Jewish populations. Throughout our 4,000 year hlstory it has always been an obligation and commitment (a mitzvah) to care and to provide for those less fortunate than ourselves. With this in mind, the UJA will be asking for donations to help finance its worthwhile programs. Over the next two weeks, there will be solicitors on campus explaining the needs and commitments of the UJA and we ask your moral ;and financial support in helping · .Jews ar-ound the world. Thank you. There has been some increase in the relative numbers of women at Union. The class of '7 4 began with about 125 women in a class of 437. The class of '84 is graduating with about 172 women in a class of 436. The first women's support group appearing on campus was the Women's Faculty Caucus which worked to get an affirmative action officer for the faculty. They sought to educate the campus about the ways for qualified women to get faculty positions. In the wake of this organization was the cr~ation of the President'~ Commission on the Status of Helmut Sonnenfeldt; \Students now seem to be definitely more career oriented and not following the philosophy of the '70's-finding yourself first and career second-as stated by Kate White,'' says Joanne Tobiessen, Assistant Dean and Director of the Career Development Center. The panel on \Life at Unionn will be held from 3-4:30 in Old Chapel, to be followed up by a discussion on \Life After Union'' from 7:30-9. A buffet dinner will be held from 4-7 in the Banquet Room at Carnegie Hall. Tobiessen encourages the campus to come and get \some perspective on Union ·and take the opportunity to see whene their predecessors have gone and listen to issues that these women have had to deal with.\ Guest of Freedom Forum Helmust Sonnenfeldt, Guest Scholar at the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C., will be the_ final speaker of the Freedom Forum series on April 9, Monday, 8 p.m. at the Union College· Memorial Chapel, Schenectady. Guest of Freedom Feature Between March 1977 and August 1978, Sonnenfeldt was a Visiting Scholar at the School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University, ,Washington, D.C. Prior to ·that appointment he served in the U.S. Government, from 1952 to 1977. Between 1952 and 1969, Sonnenfeldt was a research and intelligence specialist in the Department of State dealing with Soviet, East European and international affairs. During the mid and late sixties, he headed the Office of Research and Analysis for the USSR and Eastern Europe in the Department of State.In 1960- 61 he served as a .policy officer in the U.S. Disarmament Agency. From 1969-1974, Sonnenfeldt was assigned to the National Security Council as a senior staff member dealing with U.S . .:. European and East-West relations. Subsequently, he served as Counselor of the Department of State and retired from the State Department and Foreign Service in 1977. Since leaving the Govern- ment, Mr. Sonnenfeldt has worked as a consultant on in- ternational affairs to several American corporations. He has published articles on various foreign policy matters in Foreign Affairs, WashingtDn Quarterly, and NATO Review. Mr. Sonnenfeldt is a Trustee of the Johns Hopkins University and a member of the Advisory Council of that institution's School of Advanced Inter- national Studies. He is a member of the Council of the International Institute of Strategic Studies (London), the- Advisory Council ·Of the American Ditchley Foundation, the Board of Directors of the Atlantic Council of the United States, the Board of Governors of the United· Nations Association of the United States and the Council on Foreign Relations (New York). Mr. Sonne~feldt served in the U.S. Army in 1945-1946. He was born in Germany in 1926. He received his primary and seconday education in that country and in England and attended Manchester University. After World War II Coffee House Presents SKIP BARTHOLD Performing a collection of works by contemporary Greenwich Village Folk Musicians Friday • 8:30p.m. • $1.50 he attended . Johns Hopkins where he received his AB and MA degrees. General admission to the lecture will cost $5. Students and the elderly will be charged $3. Freedom Forum was organized in 1943 by the Sub- committee on Post-War Planning of the Citizens Unity Committee of the Schenectady Consolidated War CounciL Headed by the Rev. Edwin H. Wilson, then minister of the local Unitarian Church, the Subconnirlttee proposed that there be established in Schenectady a public forum to which eminent authorities mig~t be invited to address significant and controversial issues, especially those likely to confront tp.e post-war era. In 1951, Freedom Forum was incorporated by the State of New York as a non-profit educational corporation. Freedom Fortun is headed by a Board of Directors drawn from Schenectady and Capital District communities. Freedom Forum's audience represents a cross-section of New York State's Capital District, a community unique 'in its cultural and civic enterprise. When desired, newspaper and television coverage of Freedom Forum programs is excellent. Freedom Forum offers a platform from which a speaker may advance ideas and test public reactions. A non-profit, nonpartisan community organization, Freedom Fortun looks forward to many more years of spon- soring informed and informing programs on matters of great public interest.

. I - Page8 CONCORDJENSIS, Apri/5, 1984 ~------------------~--------~----~~~------~~------------------~------~~----~~~ Delta :Phi's ·\' I I Annual Suitcase,Party Saturday, Aprill4th at Girling Cente.r 8 .•. .·~ p.m.- • .1st Prize: Tropical Trip for Two Tickets $20/couple on sale now at Delta Phi 66 Days Until Graduation! Arts & Science Majors! · All dressed up, with nowhere to go? It's not too late to think about N crtheastern' s MS in Professional Accounting Program. This Program is a 15-month course of study designed for graduates of Arts and Sciences and other non- accounting majors. It's a full-time grad- uate program divided into five · quarters, preparing you for the CPA Examination and a career in public accounting. The third quarter is an internship where you are employed by a leading public accounting firm such as Arthur Andersen, Alexander Grant, Coopers & Lybrand, Peat Marwick, or Price Waterhouse. In ad- dition to student loans and tuition scholarships, significant financial aid is provided by internship earnings, which averaged $5,000 for the three month internship last year. You still have time to apply for the class beginning in June. Send for brochure, or call (617) 437-3244. ------------~-------------- Please send more inforna.tion about the MS in Accounting Program. Graduate School of Professional Accounting Northeastern Universit-y 360 Huntington A venu.e Boston, MA 02115 3-84-X Name ________________________ _ Address -------------~---........,...._ City /State/Zip --------------------- I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I College . . Class I Northeastern University -! • - INBOSTON Northeasteril University is an eqtlal opportunity/affirmative action educational I 1 institution and employer. The College of Business Ad~nistration is accredited by the I 1 American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business. I L----------~---------------------~ PARENT'S WEEKEND Tickets for Parentis Wee·kend will go on sale/ starti-ng 12:00 noon Aprilll, 1984 _Tickets will be sold at the Ticket Booth in Carnegie Tickets will cover the following ev~nts: May 4th Film Committee- 7 p.m., 9 p.m., 11 p.m. Speakers Foru.m- 8 p.m. Mountebanks- 8 p.m. Coffee House- 8:30'p.m. May 5th {V\ountebanks- 8 p.m.-- Cabaret - 8 & lO p.m. . \ Dance I Concert Ramada Inn- 9 p .• :m. Film Committee_- 7, 9, & 1·1, p.m. Iiiii - • I l

CONCORD/ENSIS, AprilS, 1984 Page9 •• FEATURES -- On the Ca,reer Front A Career .Big Brothers- B • .• • 1n Retail Sales 19 S1sters We are in tbe process of recruiting new volunteers for the fall. You can help by en- couraging friends to call us now if they would like. to be a Big Brother or Big Sister. We are seeking volunteers who you feel are responsible and Would be consistent with a Little Brother or Little Sister. Tales of Big Brothers-Big Sisters Did you know that Scott Colli.Qs and his Little Brother, Billy, won first priZe in the Pine Wood Derby race sponsored by the Cub Scouts? They built a model car and took f.irst place-- contratulations! Toni Huebscher's Little Sister, Sassy, has terrific grades in school this year. Sassy' mom thinks Toni has a lot to do with the improved grades. Nice work Toni! Attention: All Members of the UCGA Gaming Association Elections TODAY Thursday, April 5 _ Conference Room A, Carnegie Hall Open Gaming Afterwards ... By CDC STAFF Many students who are seeking fasHrack careers often overlook the retail industry as a place to seek that career. Today's college students will be tomorrow's trendmsetters. Marketing offers many challenges to students who are hard working and willing to dedicate themselves to satisfying the American public's buying appetite. College. graduates who have good interpersonal skills- and who are service oriented should definitely consider careers in retail sales management. Le.aders in today'.s retail in- dustry are. successful because they recruithighly talented and educated college .graduates who have the potential to apply their people skills in a management situation. In today's fast-paced, ever- changing retail industry, an ·· unlinlited number of positions are currently available and that availability will continue to rise in the future. Today's sue- cessful retail leaders have instituted their own · internal training programs in order to ., teach their future sales managers the way to ac- complish corporate sales ob- jectives. It is not uncorrunon, in some retail organizations, for college graduates to advance to store manager or department ·manager position~ within two or three years of their em- ployment and earn over $30,000 a year. Kay Jewelers, Inc., for example, employed college students who graduated in 1980 and 1981 and managed a typical Kay store in 1982. They earned an average compensation of $26,525 and also received benefits which cost an ad- . ditional $8,141. Those sales manager's, therefore, averaged a total compensation and benefits package of $34,666 in 1982. As the manager of your own store or department, you will .have excellent working con- ditions and will be working, in most cases, with state-of-the-art . -· ~··· ·• ... . ~- . Prerequisite·.tot·i CaaadJP Mcgors~ ,._jt >. : .. . ' .... ,, ... ,. Molst»Q· .. \l.. 'u \ .. ,.rF•·'{' . AVAIL ABLE AT THE DUTCH . . - ' . .. .... The finest ale brewed and bottled in Canada. Imported by Martlet Importing Co.,lnc., Great Neck, Ni:Y. © 1982. merchandise. It's your job to sell that merchandise, service the customer and keep him or her happy. You must be able to exude enthusiasm and be highly motivated, be extremely ethical and be responsible for your obligations. Not only will your financial rewards be great, but the satisfaction of having performed. a job well done makes each day a challenge. If you are considering a career in retail sales management, here are some of the things you should look for, in order to select a company which is right for you. Since you are seeking a career and not just another job, what type of merchandise would you prefer to see-- women's clothes, men's clothes, jewelry, furs, food, shoes, furniture, etc. :Narrow your options down and then target in on. those companies that best fill your interets. Evaluate the various retailers who carry the type of mer- chandise you would like to sell. What do you know of their reputation? Do they carry quality merchandise, backed up by sound guarantees, at a fair price? You might be attracted to a company catering to middle class America, as opposed to a retailer who caters to the upper class. It is imJ)()rtant for you to feel comfortable with the customer mix, so that you can maximize your sales and your income. If you feel you will be a success catering to middle class . customers, do it; if you feel you cannot identify with and sell to upper class customers, avoid it. Does this company offer the type of compensation you are seeking and, more importantly, does this company offer a realistic potential for your personal growth? Are you willing to start at a lower in- · come level than most of your recent college graduate peers in order to realize longer term gains'? Ask the employer \What is the typical length of time for a recent college graduate in your company, with no retaU ex- perience, to be promoted to a store manager or department manager position?\ Ask what the typical e~rning are at that time. Are you required to work five days a week? Six days a week? Are you required to begin work at 8 a.m.? End work at 10 p.m.? The compensation can be ex- cellent, the benefits very good and working conditions great, yet many retailers still insist on · a six-day work week. Therefore, it is essential that you deter- mine in advance what your working limitations will be. A career in retail sales management can be very satisfying and rewarding. It is a lucrative field, that, unless you have already made a career decision, is an area you might want to pursue. Information for this article was taken from \Careers in Retail Sales,\ The Black. Collegian, April 1984. Easter Cards Eggs • Chocolate and Kite$ Ope1t 10:30·5:30 Tltun. to 1:30 164Jay St. SclleiiKfllly, NY 12305 \\\\= 511-~74-2103

,• Page 10 (1Jllt1nlrbirnsts ----\----- Folli'IIJrci at ( 1,.,on (o/l~e /liT( ------ A Word of Thanks On Monday evening, Ben Heckscher resigned from his position of vice president for finance. Ben has been an extremely valuable member of Union's student government and he will be sorely missed. Since Ben was elected last spring, he has proved himself to be one of the finest leaders our student government has ever had. Ben spent over 160 hours last summer saccessfully organizing the student activities budget. He also wrote and designed a finance handbook which has been (and will continue to be in future years) an efficient and comprehensive guide for student activity leaders. Union's student finance committee has traditionally been criticized for disorganization due to mismanagement. Ben has broken this tradition, however, and is responsible for the organized, fair, and consistent activities budgets which exist this year. We are confident that because of the guidelines which Ben set, both Brian Laux: and Andy George will be able to continae with this new 'tradition of ex- cellence' in their rcle as heads of the finance com- mittee. Ben is respected by all students and administrators who have been fortunate enough to work with him this year. He has been a vital member of the StudeiJ.t Forum and will be greatly missed this term. On behalf of the entire college community, we would like to thank Ben. for a job more than well done. Attention: All Student Activities Budgets are due into Mrs. Marra by 4:30p.m., Apr. 17, 1984 -No Exceptions- ( see I ist of requirements printed below) StaJJ.dard Format for Budget Submission 1984-85 A. All Student Forum sponsored clubs, committeeees and organizations desiring student activities funding for the 1984-85 academic year will sub:mit a formal budget request on or before Tuesday, Aprill7, 1984 at 4:30 p.m. All budget reQuests will be - submitted to the Coordinator of Student Activities, Mrs. Marra. . B. Budgets turned in after this deadline run the ruk of receiving NO student activities funding for the 1984-85 academic year I C. All budget requests WILL include the following: 1. .A reprint of Article II from the organization's Constitution, specifically stating the ''purpose'' of the organizati'W· 2. Written justification of each object category. Each request within an individual object category should be broken down to reflect these proposed expenditures. Be very specific about each of these proposed expenditures, e.g., amount needed, cost per unit, etc. 3. A detailed inventory list of all group held capital equipment (total value over $100.00), the date of its original purchase, and its estimated value. Please note where the inventory is currently st.:> red. 4. A list of active participants and/or members of the club, committee or organizati<Jn accompanied by telephone nwnbers and class year. The list should note which members are officers> their titles and the dates when they were elected or appointed. Only include students who are active members as defined in Article III of your constitution. · 5. A written e1Q)lanation of how the budget request was prepared and approved by the officers and/or membership of the. organization as outlined in its Constitution. This explanation need not be more than a paragraph or two. D. Budgets turned in ·incomplete (not filling ALL above requirements) will be turned back and are expected to resubmitted in no more than five ( 5) business days. . E. It is recommended that the person(s) submitting the budget keep a copy for their ownfiles. CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/5, 1984 LETTERS On Terms Abroad To the Editor: In discussing Terns Abroad with people from outside the College, I often find myself saying that our programs have a significant effect on everyone at Union. At first glance, this statement may sound somewhat exaggerated, for if the Class {)f 1984 is statistically typical, only about two hundred of you have gone on a term abroad. This figure is no doubt much higher than at any other college comparable to Union, but it is obviously not everybody. What has always impressed me most about Union is that everyone here seems engaged in one ~ctivity or another, academic· or extracurricular, that is rewarding not only to that person, but to others in the community as well. This opinion certainly holds true for Terms Abroad. Although students often retutn home feeling duty bound to describe their term abroad as a \good time\ ( wbich it no doubt was, at least in part), they also call·jt, · in more private moments, one of the most significant ex.- periences of their college career. And anyone observing them from a more objective point of. view would certainly agree with them. When the somewhat passive student who sat rather uncomfortably through Freslnnan Preceptorial conferences goes to France, takes hold, and then begins to tell me things about France that I had· never really noti<:ed before, then I know we are doing something right. The value of this experience con· t.inues, both for the studen.t and his-her friends. Three out 6£ five students at Union do .not go abroad, for reasons that make good sense to them. Yet to a certain ex:tent 1 they participate in the experience · as well, through different perceptions offered in class and in more informal situations. And eventually, when they finally do go abroad, they ·often tend to avoid the usual tourist traps because they remember what friends .have told them about seeing, the country as it really is. For everyone here, ~enns Abroad provides a transition between two different worlds. Next year, we begin a·· program in Japan, and thus we are about to be able to say that : the sun ·(almo.st) never sets on the Union Empire. More im-. portant is the fact that we can begin new programs and maintain our existing ones because since 1969, Union. students abroad have represented the College superbly. We go to twelve different. countries, and What you prove in these twelve . countries, year after year, is that you can give as much as you receive. I can't think of another .foreign study program that can match your record. I hope that you will all · remember Union, both Union in Schenectady and Union elsewhere. William W. Thomas . Director of Terms Abroad Canadian Flag Demanded To the Editor: This letter questions the absence of the Canadian flag in Achilles Rink. We feel this oversight is an .insult to the outstanding Canadian athletes From the Apathy Party To the Editor: There could have been a recent rise in support of a new political party on campus. A select few have decided to direct these energies to inac- tion. We of the Apathy Party are not interested in providing alternatives to the Democratic, Republican, Socialist, or any other pre-ex:isting political party. Tlleir actions toward the social problems have not had significant results; we, however~ have no significant views. Nor are we anarchists. Further description of the Apathy Party is not possible, due to the detrimental effect it would have on the foundations of our program. We have already been endorsed by our society, by every non-voter, and those who never implement their right to vote. In our ambigious struggle to fight with apathy, we are considering enlisting the whole of Union College. campus into our numbers~ All those unin- terested in being considered interested need not reply to this notice. If we do not receive notification of your desire not to be a rnember, we shall automatically, and retroac- tively, consider you to be a member of the Apathy Party. t\ caucus may or may not be held or dropped after the primary-- no candidates will run, and no · ballots will be accepted. Our next publication will be a list of members on campO$ who have not expressed their desires not to be apathetics and therefore automatically are considered apathetics. Detachedly, President: Meserve Platt Premier: Paul Edwards Disinterested Alien: . Nikolia Ma akovsk who have contributed to the Union College Athletic Program. . During this past season 40 percent of the varsity hockey team was of Canadian descent. The leading scorer (and co- captain) was. Canadian and two out of three goalies were Canadian. Furthennore, in the incredible four-overtime N.C.A.A. semifinal game against R.I.T. 60 percent of the goals were scored by Canadian team members. These statistics are not surprising as there has been a strong history of Canadian contribution to the Union. Hockey,., Program since its incepti?n in the early 1970's. Finally, the coach who has led· the team to its first national playoff is himself a native of Canada. Therefore, in recognition of the notoriety brought to Union, . College through the efforts of . the hockey team and realizing that this is due in great part to · the accomplishments of the Canadian hockey· players, we implore the Athletic Depart• ment to do ·the same by ·placing the Canadian . flag alongside that of the United States. Sincerely, we are · People UnderstancUng · CanadlanKudos (P;U.C~K.) iiiiiii - ell Tl wl fe .bE fr te hl d« ft at fa .la C< pl m ir aJ pl l Nc: illl to co m de hE \I UJ de \i fa a~ ge at ht sl: dE of VE W< se th ni S< m b1 fo

Pa1-:e lfJ Foundtrl at limon Collq{~ 1877 ------------ ------------ A Word of Thanks On Monday evening, Ben Heckscher resigned from his position of vice president for finance. Ben has bren an extremely valuable member of Union 1 S student government and he will be sorely missed. Since Ben was elected last spring, he has proved himself to be one of the finest leaders our student government has ever had. Ben spent over 160 hours last sununer successfully organizing the student activities budget. He also wrote and designed a finance handbook which has been (and will continue to be in future years) an efficient and comprehensive guide for student activity leaders. Union's student finance committee has traditionally been criticized for disorganization due to mismanagement. Ben has broken this tradition, however, and is responsible for the organized, fair, and consistent activities budgets which exist this year. We are confident that because of the guidelines which Ben set, both Brian Laux and Andy George will be able to continue with this new 'tradition of ex- cellence' in their role as heads of the finance com- mittee. Ben is respected by all students and administrators who have been fortunate enough to work with him this year. He has been a vital member of the Student Forum and will be greatly missed this term. On behalf of the entire college community, we would like to thank Ben for a job more than well done. Attention: All Student Activities Budgets are due into Mrs. Marra by 4:30p.m., Apr. 17, 1984 -No Exceptions- ( see I ist of requirements printed below) Standard Format for Budget Submission 1984-85 A. All Student Forum sponsored clubs, committeeees and organizations desiring student activities funding for the 1984-85 academic year will submit a formal budget request on or before Tuesday, April17, 1984 at 4:30 p.m. All budget requests will be submitted to the Coordinator of Student Activities, Mrs. Marra. . B. Budgets turned in after this deadline run the risk of receiving NO student activities funding for the 1984-85 academic year! C. All budget requests WILL include the following: 1. A reprint of Article II from the organization's Constitution, specifically stating the ''purpose'' of the organizati~. 2. Written justification of each object category. Each request within an individual object category should be broken down to reflect these proposed expenditures. Be very specific about each of these proposed expenditures, e.g .. amount needed, cost per unit, etc. 3. A detailed inventory list of all group held capital equipment rtotal value over $100.00), the date of its original purchase, and its estimated value. Please note where the inventory is currently stJred. 4. A list of active participants and/or members of the club, committee or organization accompanied by telephone numbers and class year. The list should note which members are officers, their titles and the dates when they were elected or appointed. Only include students who are active members as de{ined in Article III of your constitution. 5. A written explanation of how the budget request was prepared and approved by the officers and! or membership of the . organization as outlined in its Constitution. This explanation need not be more than a paragraph or two. D. Budgets turned in incomplete (not filling ALL above requirements) will be turHed back and are expected to resubmitted in no more than five ( 5 l business days. E. It is recommended that the person(s) submitting the budget keep a copy for their own files. CONCORDIENSIS, AprilS, 1984 ~.0'1!?:·*'\·! ~~m:t $ : ;sm• ·=LETtERS On Terms Abroad To the Editor: In discussing Terns Abroad with people from outside the College, I often find myself saying that our J>rograrns have a significant effect on everyone at Union. At first glance, this statement may sound somewhat exaggerated, for if the Class of 1984 is statistically typical, only about two hundred of you have gone on a term abroad. This figure is ne doubt much higher than at any other college comparable to Union, but it is obviously not everybody. What has always im)!>ressed me most about Union is that everyone here seenns engaged in one activity or another, academic or extracurricular, that is rewarding not only to that person, but to others in the community as well. This opinion certainly holds true for Terms Abroad. Although students often return home feeling duty bound to describe their term abroad as a \good time\ (which it no doubt was, at least in part), they also call it, in more private moments, one of the most significant ex- periences of their college career. And anyone observing them from a more objective point of view would certainly agree with them. When the somewhat passive student who sat rather uncomfo·rtably through Freshman Preceptorial conferences goes to France, takes hold, and then begins to tell me things about France that I had never really noticed before, then I know we are doing something right. The value of this experience con- tinues, both for the studel)l; and his-her friends. Three out of five students at Union do not go abroad, for reasons that make good sense to them. Yet to a certain extent, they participate in the experience as well, through different perceptions offered in class and in more informal situations. And eventually, when they finally do go abroad, they often tend to avoid the usual tourist traps because they remember what friends have told them about seeing the country as it really is. For everyone here, Terms Abroad provides a transition · between two different worlds. Next year, we begin a program in Japan, and thus we are about to be able to say that the sun (almost) never sets on the Union Ernpire. More im· . portant is the fact that we can · begin new programs and maintain our existing ones because since 1969, Union students abroad have represented the College superbly. We go to twelve different countries, and what you prove in these twelve · countries, year after year, is that you can give as much as you receive. I can't think of another foreign study program that can match your record. I hope that you will all remember Union, both Union in Schenectady and Union elsewhere. Wllliam W. Thomas Director of Terms Abroad Canadian Flag Demanded To the Editor: This letter questions the absence of the Canadian flag in Achilles Rink. We feel this oversight is an insult to the outstanding Canadian athletes From the Apathy Party To the Editor: There could have been a recent rise in support of a new political party on campus. A select few have decided to direct these energies to inac- tion. We of the Apathy Party are not interested in providing alternatives to the Democratic, Republican, Socialist, or any other pre-existing political party. Their actions toward the social problems have not had significant results; we, however, have no significant views. Nor are we anarchists. Further description of the Apathy Party is not possible, due to the detrimental effect it would have on the foundations of our program. We have already been endorsed by our society, by every non-voter, and those who never implement their right to vote. In our ambigious struggle to fight with apathy, we are considering enlisting the whole of Union College campus into our numbers. All those unin- terested in being considered interested need not reply to this notice. If we do not receive notification of your desire not to be a member, we shall automatically, and retroac- tively, consider you to be a member of the Apathy Party. A. caucus may or may not be held or dropped after the primary- no candidates will run, and no ballots will be accepted. Our next publication will be a list of members on campus who have not expressed their desires not to be apathetics and therefore automatically are considered apathetics. Detachedly, President: Meserve Platt Premier: Paul Edwards Disinterested Alien: Nikolia Ma akovsk who have contributed to the Union College Athletic Program. During this past season 40 percent of the varsity hockey team was of Canadian descent. The leading scorer (and co- captain) was Canadian and two out of three goalies were Canadian. Furthermore, in the incredible four-overtime N.C.A.A. semifinal game against R.I. T. 60 percent of the goals were scored by Canadian team members. These statistics are not surprising as there has been a strong history of Canadian cont~ibution to the Union Hockey., Program since its inception in the early 1970's. • :Editors..jn..Cbief .• News Editor .. · .. Associate New Editor Features Editor Ass~eiattJ.li'e&:tures EditDr · . ·Gc~nunentacy Page Editor · Arts E&tors Campus Page Editors Sports .Editors Assocls:tte Sports Editor Advertising Editor · Associate Advertising Editors Pho~o Editor Associate· Phottl Editors Sports Photo Editor Subscription Editors Finally, the coach who has led the team to its first national playoff is himself a native of Canada. Therefore, in recognition of the notoriety brought to Union College through the efforts of the hockey team and realizing that this is due in great part to the accomplishments of the Canadian hockey players, we implore the Athletic Depart- ment to do the same by placing the Canadian flag alongside that of the United States. Sincerely, we are People Understanding Canadian Kudos (P.U.C.K.) . . Julie Abelman, Donrta Getson Gayle Rosenfeld Jan Baran Franklin Schneider Betsy Treitler Peter Mohr Debbie Albert, Brian Laux Karen Greaves, Jill Kaufman Drew Hurley, Lynn O'Brien Doug Baumgarten Mary Ann Gagliardi Debbie Rose, EllenSJipp Daphne Chigas Jon Barofsky, Larry Kaminsky, Steve Robbins Robert Tang Jim Campbell, David Frantz Staff Ricbar<iBiegen, TomBlackburn, Sarah Calderini, Maureen Coleman, .Lori Cooper, Tod Di.mmick, Diane Duffy, Mike Fox, Josh Greene, LynnHano, Ted Kendris, Dave Marin~ LoriOliwenstein, Sharon Pearl, Judy Philipson, Linda Raffaele, Rob Rissell, Amy Rosencrantz, Larry Shapiro, Lauten Sobel; StefanieSpanier, Judie Steinhardt, Janice Thompson, Aaron Toffler, AI White, Scott Wykoff Photo Staff Jim Camp.bell, David Dworkin, Uz Karazirn, Pat Merritt,. Patti Sacks, Steve Shapir<>, FrankSkorina CQNCORDIENSIS is published every Thnrsday by the student body of l!nion College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc,, Box 388 1 Sidney, New York 13833, (607) 563·3526. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first class matter. Subscription rate, $18 per year, delivered anywhere in tlie United States. Office Telephone: 37()...6155. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the Colleg~ Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB ). ' i 1,; i I i I , I . , I ! I I . I I i 1 ~I I, I , ) I !ill • I - DE ex Tl wl fe' be . fr te ht d;J fr1 a~ fa la cc pl m in ar p< l Na Hlt to COl m~ de hu \f Ur do \iJ fa ag ge ab hu I sh de of ve WI se th ni, Sc m bl fo liE

----~--------------------------------O~O~N~C~O~R~.D~l~E~N~S~1&~,~A~or~U~5~,1~9~84~--------------------------------R-~g_e_ll View on. Nicaragua Dear .Editor: The situation in Nicaragua is extremely critical at this time. The Nicaraguan economy which depends heavily on only a few agricultural exports has .. been under increasing attack from CIA-backed coun- terrevolutionaries. Several hundtedmillion donars worth of damage bas already r~sulted from attacks such as the one against the vital oil storage facilities at the port of Corinto .last October. Nicaragua needs a successful coffee harvest to be able to purchase basic f.ood stuffs, medicines, spare parts for industry and transportation, and oil. Because of the urgent political and military situation, many Nicaraguans have been mobilized in the de(ense <if their ~ountry and cannot participate m the December-February coffee harvest this year. That is why I have chosen to respond to Nicaragua's can for international work brigades to ensure a successful coffee harvest this year. In the United States, the National Network in Solidarity with the Nicaraguan People (NNSNP) is working to coor- dinate volunteer participaticln. U.S. citizens have a particular role in this harvest, because if it were not for our government's open attempts to overthrow the government gf Nicaragua, the Nicaraguans would be free to develqp ~heir own political life. and their own . economy in eace. By participating in the volunteer coffee harvest, I hope to show that as an American citizen, I stand with the people of Nicaragua in their moment of need and that I oppose the policies of the Reagan ad- ministration. I urge others to support and write to NNSNP for further infol'mation on how to help the people ·of Nicaragua and to make donations. Their address is: NNSNP, 2025 \I\ Street NW, suite 402, Washington, DC, 20006. The time has come to give Central America back to its people! . Sincerely, David L. Wiltsie 1800 Market St. No. 7 San Francisco, CA 94102 · Underlying Principles BymOMAS HAVEN The massacre of the Jews by Nazi-Germany in World War II illustrates mankind's potential to be inhumane. I have a bias, I confess, which compels me to make this statement con- demning the senseless abuse of human life! I am an \Humanities\ student here at Union, an English major, and do hereby protest \inhumanities.\ All students, faculty, and alumni would agree, I hope, that the mass genocide which occurred is an abomination, though they be not humanity majors. The principle underlying that shocking event is equally despicable; namely, any abuse of human life. Many of us are very concerned that a few women were frightened and sexually harrassed recently, as they were walking alone at night here on the Union campus. Some cry for improved security measures, putting some of the blame on our security police force. I feel that the responsibility lies within our grasp. The power of suggestion should never be underestimated. If a person · ya'WD.s ~class; though-the elas~ may be interesting, do not others. become distracted and end up yaWning themselves, much to the chagrin of the professor. and tile missed comprehension of the student? Negative actions and attitudes are very contagious, as is the yawn, yet, on the other hand, .so are positive ones. To indirectly deal with the present s.ec:urity problems is to start with our· selves. Are our attitudes and actions positive, or negative? How much do we inf111ence others? The principle · behind the shocking massacre, which happened only 40 years ago, is , very much alive in our present day, though seemingly not in such extreme degrees. Let's look at the relationship the Nazis had with their prisoners who were, for many of us, our forefathers. It was not a very pleasant __ one. Humanistically speaking~ the Germans had no respect for the \person\ within the doomed bodies. No respect for the person and abuse of the body, HOMECOMING '84 All students interested in helping with Homecoming '84 are invited to attend the _first student Homecoming meeting on THURSDAY April 12th at 4:30p.m., 4th floor lounge ' This Summer At Cornell University you can enjoy a remarkable variety of courses and learning opportunities. In a setting of • beautiful lakes, parks, ravines, and waterfalls, you can fulfill requirements, accelerate your degree program, or simply take the courses that you've • always put off. Ithaca, a small cosmopolitan city, is located in a magnificent. varied countryside that offers you water sports and ball games. climbing and camping, theater and outdoor concerts, soaring and .biking, birding and hiking ... Call or ~rite to see for yourself why Cornell is the place you should be this- summer. Cornell Unlv.ersity Summer Session EH2 lves Haii-Box.65 Ithaca, New York 14853 607/256-4987 thus resulted in millions of deaths. For the prisoners, the deaths &eeurred physically whereas for the- executioners, the deaths occurred on a moralistic kind of level, but eventually also physically. My point of dwelling on this vecy mcrbid history is to pin•point the inevitabl~ consequences which result from the abuse ol an()ther person's body with the simultaneous lack of respect towards their inward person. Because the abuse of the human body consistently results in some form of death, and because of the power of suggestion, I condemn the actions of the Union College Film Committee, aml the ac- tions of anyone who supervised its process of selecting films, for the showing of the X-rated film \Wanda Whips Wall Street.\ Anyone who approves of that kind of \entertainment\ intrinsically approves of the massacre which took place in the Nazi Germany con- centration camps. The \freedom of speech\ justification of the pornography makes me wonder if neo-Nazi or Klu Klux Klan recruiting films will soon be available for the variety and pleasure of public viewing. I feel that the standards held by the Union College trustees shollld be consistent with any activity associated with Union's name. Since it is obvious that this consistency does not exist as evidenced by the por- nography trash, I feel that someone responsible for these actions should be called to resign from his respective post. Important: Dance Club Meeti.ng Sunday, April 8 AB 202 • 8-10 p.m. ·All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday before pub I icati- on. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. ·coMMENTARIES Sounding Off ByHILARYTANN Assistant Professor of Music Recently I attended a concert on campus. The first piece on the program was a com- paratively modern work-just some 50 years olci It was more than ably perfonned by two students. I listened to them with pleasure as they negotiated the twistS .and turns in the musical rhetoric. At the conclu.Sion of the piece I found myself warmly applauding their success. Just at this moment a senior made her way towards me and, unannounced, announced, flatly, \I didn't like that.\ \I didn't like tnat\ ... nothing more. The judgement was given; the sentence pronoun- ced; and, I assume, the case dismissed. Even from a social point of view consideration might have been given to the amount of time and. energy committed to the preparation of this work ~y its interpreters; and surely, there must have been a few palatable moments, even for those of most delicate sensibilities. But no, the ap- propriate response for this listener was, quite simply, and quite damningly, \I didn't like that.\ For this student, I'm sure, music is a commodity much as items on supermarket shelves are commodities. As a con- sumer, she feels it perfectly within her right to sample at will, with little effort, and to pronounce that she will, nor will not, \buy\ the product. Her refrain, as she moves through her musical experiences (and, for all I know, through her life as well) will be variations on the four-beat spondee, \I did like that,\ and on its lamer com· panion, \I didn't like that\-a Commentary: refrain which echoes that of the Keatsian stan2as which con- clude \And no birds sing\ (and, yes, I do intend to invoke an analogy between music (the knight-at-arms) and the students (LA BELLE Dame sans Merci)). Now I have heard the term • \music as commodity\ before, and I am aware that music functions as wallpaper in many homes, supplying an ''at- mosphere\ cheaply, and, one trusts, inoffensively. I also recognize that this wallpaper music transforms our methods of transportation into ex- tensions of our living rooms as we mam the highways to Haydn and hope not to have to tolerate anything post-Baroque in dif- ficult traffic conditions. But here is music-trapped, inert. and passive-treated as commodity within the concert hall. Here is music drained of communication-instant music powder; music as packaged deal; music as mime-show. Here is music, an object of thought, thoughtlessly treated as object. Object! Friends, the stock price index of Muzak notwithstanding, Liis is serious business. . The appalling ever-presence of music is lulling us into a stupor where, in an age of consent, we are being trained not to listen. We are being trained to hear new thoughts as either in sync with our own prejudices or not in sync with our own prejudices. And we are in danger of treating the advent of all new ideas this way. Be warned: the tenor of your response to the world of music says much about the tenor of your response to the world at large. Act Your Age ByMARCYBURSTINER It is finals weekend and here I sit on my bed concentrating on everything but my notes for the test on Tuesda.y. I had just eaten three fudge brownies and a glass of milk' and had felt wonderfully childish. After licking my fingers and putting my plate and glass away, I c-ame back to my room, jumped onto my bed, and continued jumping for the next ten minutes. In the midst of doing so, I thought, \Marcy you are not acting your age. Twenty years old and jumping up and down on your bed? Now really, you must settle down. You have too much work to do t() be wasting your time like 'this. Do your work!\ So I did. Yet, asitake pen in hand and write down sentences that have no connection with my course, I think, \What. is Acting-My-Age anyway? Is it drinking coffee and eating doughnuts rather than having brownies and milk? Commentaries Represent the Views ·of the Author and not the Editor.ial Board of Con- cordiensis. Is it sitting at a desk studying feverishly? Is it hanging up all the clothes now piled up' in front of me on my bed? What, after all;-is Acting-My-Age?\ Since no definite answer comes to my mind, I continue to the next obvious question. \Why? Why must I Act-My- Ag.e? Why must I rise out of my happy Never Never Land and enter that seemingly horrible cold atmosphere of the Grown· Up world?lf However, several reasons do unfortunately enter this stubborn head. In two years, I sadly realize, both this college and my father will send me out into that cold com· petitive land with diploma in hand. Unlike Doonesbury's lucky Zonker Harris, I cannot be an undergraduate all my life. On the other hand, I not-so- sadly realize, there are millions to be made in that capitalist climate. What then am I to do? Should I file away my wonderful \red light, green light,\ u cookies and milk,\ \finger licking,\ \strawberry licorice chewing,\ childlike attitude toward life? Should I throw it all away and take out of my magic bag the grey three piece suit, three martini, nine to five, goU on Wednesday, squash on Satur· day, attitude of the jungle-out- there world? Yes, I face a serious dilemma. I must ponder this. As it is a serious issue, I go to my closet, take out my official Yankee baseball hat, sit back on my bed, and lll1wrap an orange lollipop. There must be an answer ...

i I ' . ' ' l • i I I rl I I , I . l I I n I i i i i l i . l [! l j ~I i ------------n---------------------------C~O~N~C~O~R~D~l~E~N~S~IS~·~A~p~ri~I5~,~1~98~4----------------------------------R-a_g_e_ll View on. Nicaragua Dear Editor: · The situation in Nicaragua is extremely critical at this time. The Nicaraguan economy · whlch depends heavily on only a ·few agricultural exports has been under increasing attack . from CIA-'backed coun- terrevolutionaries. Several hundred million dollars worth of damage has already resulted from attacks such as the one against the vital oil storage · facilities at the port of Corinto last October. Nicaragua needs a successful coffee harvest to be able to purchase basic food stuffs, medicines, spare parts for industry and transportation, and oil. Because of the urgent political and military situation, many Nicaraguans have been mobilized in the defense of their country and cannot participate in the December-February coffee harvest this year. That is why I have chosen to respond to Nicaragua's call for international work brigades to ensure a successful coffee harvest this year. In the United States,. the National Network in Solidarity with the Nicaraguan People (NNSNP) is working to coor- dinate volunteer participation. U.S. citizens have a particular role in this harvest, because if it were not for our government's open attempts to overthrow the government Qf Nicaragua, the Nicaraguans would be free to develoo their own political life and their own economy ia peace. By participating in the volunteer coffee harvest, I hope to show that as an American citizen, I stand with the people of Nicaragua in their moment of need and that I oppose the policies of the Reagan ad- ministration. I urge others to support an.d write to NNSNP for further in:fermation on how to help the people of Nicaragua and to make donations. Their address is: NNSNP, 2025 \I\ Street NW, suite 402, Washington, DC, 20006. The time has come to give Central America back to its people! Sincerely, David L. Wlltsie 1800 Market St. No.7 San Francisco, CA 94102 Underlying Principles By THOMAS HAVEN The massacre of the Jews by Nazi-Germany in World War II illustrates mankind's potential to be inhumane. I have a bias, I confess, which compels me to make this statement con- demning the senseless abuse of human life! I am an \Humanities\ student here at Union, an English major, and do hereby protest \inhumanities.\ All students, faculty, and alumni would agree, I hope, that the mass genocide which occurred is an abomination, though they be not humanity majors. The principle underlying that shocking event is equally despicable; namely, any abuse of human life. Many of us are very concerned that a few women were frightened and sexually harrassed recently, as they were walking alone at night here on the Union campus. Some cry for improved security measures, putting some of the blame on our security police force. I feel that the responsibility lies within our grasp. The power of suggestion should never be underestimated. If a person yawns in class, though the class may be interesting, do not others become distracted and end up yawning themselves, much to the chagrin of the professor and the missed comprehension of the student? Negative actions and attitudes are very contagious, as is the yawn, yet, on the other hand, so are positive ones. To indirectly deal with the present security problems is to start with our- selves. Are our attitudes and actions positive, or negative? How much do we influence others? The principle behind the shocking massacre, which happened only 40 years ago, is very much alive in our present day, though seemingly not in such extreme degrees. Let's look at the relationship the Nazis had with their prisoners who were, for many of us, our forefathers. It was not a very pleasant one. Humanistically speaking, the Germans had no respect for the \person\ within the doomed bodies. No respect for the person and abuse of the body, HOMECOMING '84 All students interested in helping with Homecoming '84 are invited to attend the .first student Homecoming meeting on THURSDAY April 12th at 4:30p.m., 4th floor lounge ' This Summer At Cornell University you can enjoy a remarkable variety of courses and learning opportunities. In a setting of beautiful lakes, parks, ravines, and waterfalls, you can fulfill requirements, accelerate your degree program, or simply take the courses that you've • always put off. Ithaca, a small cosmopolitan city. is located in a magnificent. varied countryside that offers you water sports and ball games, climbing and camping, theater and outdoor concerts. soaring and biking, birding and hiking ... Call or write to see for yourself why Cornell is the place you should be this summer. Cornell University Summer Sess1on 612 lves Haii-Box65 Ithaca, New York 14-853 607/256-4987 thus resulted in millions of deaths. For the prisoners, the deaths O<!curred physically whereas fm· the executioners, the deaths occurred on a moralistic kind of level, but eventually also physically. My point of dwelling on this very morbid history is to pin-point the inevitable consequences which result from the abuse of another person's body with the simultaneous lack of respect towards their inward person. Because the abuse of the human body consistently results in some form of death, and because of the power of suggestion, I condemn the actions ()f the Union College Film Committee, and the ac- tions of anyone who supervised its process of selecting films, for the showing of the X-rated film \Wanda Whips Wall Street.\ Anyone who approves of that kind of \entertainment\ intrinsically approves of the massacre which took place in the Nazi Germany con- centration camps. The \freedom of speech\ justification of the pornography makes me wonder if neo-Nazi or Klu Klux Klan recruiting films will soon be available for the variety and pleasure of public viewing. I feel that the standards held by the Union College trustees should be consistent with any activity associated with Union's name. Since it is obvious that this consistency does not exist as evidenced by the por- nography trash, I feel that son1eone responsible for these actions should be called to resign from his respective post. Important: Dance Club Meeting Sunday, April 8 AB 202 • 8-10 p.m. All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday before publicati- on. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. COMMENTARIES Sounding Off By HILARY TANN Assistant Professor of Music Recently I attended a concert on campus. The first piece on the program was a com- paratively modern work- just some 50 years old. It was more than ably performed by two students. I listened to them with pleasure as they negotiated the twists and turns in the musical rhetoric. At the conclusion of the piece I found myself warmly applauding their success. Just at this moment a senior made her way towards me and, unannounced, announced, flatly, \I didn't like that.\ \I didn't like that\ ... nothing more. The judgement was given; the sentence pronoun- ced; and, I assume, the case dismissed. Even from a social point of view consideration might have been given to the amount of time and. energy committed to the preparation of this work by its interpreters; and surely, there must have been a few palatable moments, even for those of most delicate sensibilities. But no, the ap- propriate response for this listener was, quite simply, and quite damningly, \I didn't like that.\ For this student, I'm sure, music is a commodity much as items on supermarket shelves are commodities. As a con- sumer, she feels it perfectly within her right to sample at will, with little effort, and to pronounce that she will, nor will not, \buy\ the product. Her refrain, as she moves through her musical experiences (and, for all I know, through her life as well) will be variations on the four-beat spondee, \I did like that,\ and on its lamer com- panion, \I didn't like that\-a Commentary: refrain which echoes that of the Keatsian stanzas which con- clude \And no birds sing\ (and, yes, I do intend to invoke an analogy between music (the knight-at-arms) and the students (LA BELLE Dame sans Mercl)). Now I have heard the term . \music as commodity\ before, and I am aware that music functions as wallpaper in many homes, supplying an \at- mosphere\ cheaply, and, one trusts, inoffensively. I also recognize that this wallpaper music transforms our methods of transportation into ex· tensions of our living rooms as we roam the highways to Haydn and hope not to have to tolerate anything post-Baroque in dif- ficult traffic conditions. But here is music-trapped, inert, and passive-treated as commodity within the concert hall. Here is music drained of communication-instant music powder; music as packaged deal; music as mime-show. Here is music, an object of thought, thoughtlessly treated as object. Object! Friends, the stock price index of Muzak notwithstanding, this is serious business. . The appalling ever-presence of music is lulling us into a stupor where, in an age of consent, we are being trained not to listen. We are being trained to hear new thoughts as either in sync with our own prejudices or not in sync with our own prejudices. And we are in danger of treating the advent of all new ideas this way. Be warned: the tenor of your response to the world of music says much about the tenor of your response to the world at large. ActYourAge By MARCY BURSTINER It is finals weekend and here I sit on my bed concentrating on everything but my notes for the test on Tuesday. I had just eaten three fudge brownies and a glass of milk' and had felt wonderfully childish. After licking my fingers and putting my plate and glass away, I came back to my room, jumped onto my bed, and continued jumping for the next ten minutes. In the midst of doing so, I thought, \Marcy you are not acting your age. Twenty years old and jumping up and down on your bed? Now really, you n1ust settle down. You have too much work to do to be wasting your time like ·this. Do your work!\ So I did. Yet, as I take pen in hand and write down sentences that have no connection with my course, I think, \What is Acting-My-Age anyway? Is it drinking coffee and eating doughnuts rather than having brownies and milk\? Commentaries Represent the Views of the Author and not the Editorial Board of Con .. cordiensis. Is it sitting at a desk studying feverishly? Is it hanging up all the clothes now piled up in front of me on my bed? What, after all, is Acting-My-Age?\ Since no definite answer comes to my mind, I continue to the next obvious question. \Why\? Why must I Act-My- Age'? Why must I rise out of my happy Never Never Land and enter that seemingly horrible cold atmosphere of the Grown- Up world?\ However, several reasons do unfortunately enter this stubborn head. In two years, I sadly realize, both this college and my father will send me out into that cold com- petitive land with diploma in hand. Unlike Doonesbury's lucky Zonker Harris, I cannot be an undergraduate all my life. On the other hand, I not-so- sadly realize, there are millions to be made in that capitalist climate. What then am I to do? Should I file away my wonderful \red light, green light,\ \cookies and milk,\ \finger licking,\ \strawberry licorice chewing,\ childlike attitude toward life? Should I throw it all away and take out of DlY magic bag the grey three piece suit, three martini, nine to five, golf on Wednesday, squash on Satur- day, attitude of the jungle-out- there world? Yes, I face a serious dilemma. I must ponder this. As it is a serious issue, I go to my closet, take out my official Yankee baseball hat, sit back on my bed, and W1Wrap an orange lollipop. There must be an answer ...

Page 12 CONCORDIE\NS/S Apri/5, 1984 lmprc:!;si\•c:·looking portable: hc:c:r ball contain., equivalent of jiftyjit•e 12m: bottles of hc:.Tr Onlv th1s i~n't ju~t het·r. ·ini~ ~~ ,\'iatt ·~ premmm .elmft hcer. Professional quality pump/up with.faueet lets you draw genuine draft hcc:r t:ffortles~IY. And cxpc:rtl)', Rc:·usabk. of t:ourst•. Mall's hcerhall coli1e~ in a-tough. leakproof carton. M> )'OU t·an icc it up atleld 1lf time. The taMe is spectacular. If you 'rt expecting friends Whi) know vou always come up with the unc::x;pcctcd. watch their cxpre~sions whe·n you turn on .this faucet. ~· .. .. ~~,.. ..... ~ ·'t.;~'t ___ ere are 3, only 3, great draft beers in the entire world. One of them comes in this contraption. The others can't survive the trip. 'k~ The good old days are almost gone. Where there used to be forests that belonged to nobody, there are now toll gates. Or windowless factories making microchips. There used to be fresh hot pies cooling in kitchen windows. Aman used to be able to walk to Oklahoma and come back two years later with a small fortune. Today we have tomatoes as hard as baseballs. And beer that is actually brewed. for shipping, brewed to ride in the back of a truck instead of in your mouth. Genuine draft beer, fresh and yeasty and worth drinking by the bucketful) simply can't survive the trip down from Canada or across from Europe. . In the town of Utica, in the Adirondack foothills of upstate NewYork,we have been making truly rewarding draft beer,, the real article, since 1888. Matt's premium draft beer is never avail- able in large quantities. But it is available. And if you live no farther away than Boston o~ New York, you can get it. It's worth the effort. Its one of the few things in life that's the way it's supposed to be. The F. X. Matt Brewing Co. of Utica, New York Gteat draft beer brewed real close to where you live. For those e:xtta fu~ beer drinkers out there. . -· - - - ll ] pa 81 hii ou int rg1 Ini rel an fr< La WE co: l ti.IJ an pl< tr~ WE in 'hi: de dij 'lli:c ha se tr' PI

CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/5, 1984 1 n The Memory of Larry -Hirsch lly J~CQUES G. SIMON Larry or Larwence, as his parents ,prefer to call him, was a good friend of mine. I knew him since tbe very begfuning of ?urfr~sbmanyear, wherrwe got mto some $O.rt of a political rgument ever Israel. In the middle ~of the &arne year i relocated in Webster llouse, and Lar:ry lived across the hall £rom me. As time passed by, Larry and I became friends and we found a lot of things in common. Last year we spent a lot. of time tDgether: jogging, cbatti.Iig and going out to different places. We even made plans to travel together in Eur(>pe, but we gave up the idea due to lack in funcls. During the first half of his sophomore year, Larry developed a tumor in the digestive system, which was 'l:liagnDsed to be cancerous. He had to take .a \leave .of ab- sence•• in order to undergo treatment at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York City. Larry was subjected to. chemotherapy.. - When I saw him towards the end of the Spring term last year, Larry had lost some hair and weight, but he did not lose his sense' of humor and his op- timism; We walked around the Manhattan streets together and we were talking about rooming together in a sUite during orir junior year. Furthermore, Larry was really looking ·for- ward to returning to Union, and he was asking me lots of · questiOns about his colleagues and friends. I had not seen Larry during the sununer due to the location of my job away from home. However he returned to Union at the beginQing of tnis year,. psyched to continue his college ex- perience. Unfortwtately, a short time after his arrival he had to leave due to the spreading of his twnor, and to return . to Columbia Pr.esbyterian for further treatment. There he was sub- jected to surgery i.it an effQrt to stop the spreading of the can- cerous tumor into the nervous system. Last time I saw Lam was in December at the hospital. He was very optimistic · and he continued to say that he _would return to Union in the b1H of the next year. Ap~arently he had thi$ hope until the last moment. Last week, on Tuesday night, March. 27, 1984, Larry Hirsch died of cance-r at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York City. For me as his friend, this is a great loss. ·For others who knew him, especially his ex- roommates from last year: Steve Dockery, Martin Krawshuk and Loc Le, Larry's death also represents a great loss. All of.us lost a friend and a great person. Together With David Bloelt, who also knew Larry well, we would like to express ou condolences and sympathies to Mr. and Mrs. Hirsch as wen as to Robert ·Hirsch, Larry'.s younger brother .. llomecoming Weekend 84 / You are invited to the First Homecoming Committee Meeting Thursday, April12, 1984' . 4th floor lounge, Carnegie 4:30p.m. If any student group wish~s to spons~ an event o:r to partic~pate in Homecoming '84: Please have a representative from your group a.~end this meeting! H you have any questions or you cannot attend this meeting, call Edith Ber~owitz at 6181. First Diftchman ~Night is this Saturday, April 7 Reservations. are now being accepted for this weekend.· Make yours now! . Reservations will close today at closing. * There will be NO Dutchman's Night on Camp Union or Clam Bake* Guidelines for Dutchman's Night Reservations Reservations for Dutchman's Night will only be accepted at the Pizza Pub during normal business hours Monday through Thursday. ~When making reservations all persons or meal cards rnust be present. This is to insure proper . reservation taking. • The party must be booked all at once, this will insure a better dining atmosphere. We cannot accept \maybe 11 reservations. e Cash reservations are welcome. Those who will be paying for dinner, please pay at the door. • A person mu$t· bring his-her I D, meal card and , entry ticket at Dutchman's Night. If these are not present, a person cannot be seated. • Anyone caught using another individual's 1.0, meal card or dinner tict<et will be turned over to the director o.f food service. Meal card and 1 D will be taken. • Because of a large dining room turnover, we ask that you· be prompt for dinner. This will insure an easy turnover, and ·no waiting for people at later seatings. Manage,ment of the Dutch Hollow Pub COMMENTARIES ·capital News By .JACK ANJlE:RSON andJOESPEAR W ASIUNGTON - ·Mary and ·Carrie Dann are t\Wo middle- ;aged Shoshone Inclian. siSters 'Who have been :fighting the federal governiilent'·s un- derhanded attempt to take their land, in northeastem Nevada for the past 10 years. In 1983, the Dum sisters won their case in the.!.tth U.S. Circuit Court· of Appeals. That should have ended it. But now the government has appealed the case to the Suprellle Court, and ifthe government wins, it could be one of the biggest land sWindles in history,. Here is the _story: The Dann sisters' ancestors raised cattle and horses in the Nevada desert .for generations. The Western Shosbones have lived on.. the land br thousands of years. · The Dann family's case in- volves only 6,000 aeres, but the Western Shoshol)tJLClaiin title to 16 million aeres. So if the gov.ernment wins its case against the Dann siste.rs, it could serve as a legal< precedent that could be use<l.t<Jtake all16 million acres a\'a:y from the Shoshones. .'J'he Danns' tr()llbles began 10 years ago when a government official demanded to see their permit for grazing cattle on federal land. The Dams told the bueaucrat tliey did31't need any permit because they owned the land. The govennnent official didn't believe them and charged tl).em with trespassing. ·The Dann sisters' case was simple and str:.aightforward. They cited an Ul6:J treaty bet· ween the Shosho11es and the U.S. governmeat. The· treaty gave the govenunent certain rights of access to the land, but it never gave the government title to the property. In fact, when the government tried to pay the Indians for the land, the Shoshones refused to accept any money-. They said the government had never taken the land; therefore, there was no need for payment. Last year, the 9th Circuit Court agreed with the Indians. But the gove1nment has appealed to the Supreme Collrt, and its argument 'Would warm . the heart of a Fh.iladelphia lawyer. The govermnent claims \ that once it attempted to pay the Indians for the land, they no longer owned it-even though the Indians reftJSed to accept the $26 million the government offered. We're not laWJ'ers, but to us the government's case sounds cra~y. We ne-ver heard of anyone winning title to property just by offering to buy it. Even one of the go-ver'IIIIlent's at- torneys admitted to our associate John Dillon that the government's case is \a technical Qne of procedural law.\ PACEMAKER PROBLEM: The world's biggest manufacturer of heart pacemakers is bolting for a multi-million-dollar bailout from the federal government. Under the law, Medicare usually pays the cost of replacing pacemakers. The operations cost about $5,000. B11t the Food and Drug Administration isn't sure it sb.ould pay for replacement of pacemakers made by Med· tronics Corp. of Minneapolis. The company inade thousands of ,pacemakers with a poten- tially dangerous wiring problem, and they should be replaced. 'lb.e FDA and congressional investigators claim that Medtronics knew about the pl\oblem well in advance. But tlle company only told physicians about it after a flurry of bad publicity a couple of monthS ago. Now, physicians all over the country are urging . tlleir patients to have the defective pacemakers replaced. It will cost an estimated $96 million to replace them all. The question is, should Medicare pay for it? NO INTEREST: The United States has been wtable to convince the Colombian government to support a crack- down on illegal drug trafficking. High profits and a lack of concern for American interests have encouraged the Colom- bians to continue the cocaine cultivation trade. According to one internal congressional repDrt, the Colombians clearly are not enthusiastic about the anti-drug effort. Drug Enfor- cement Administration officials have told members of Congress that the Colombian governemtn is bugging the DEA's offices in that country. BALLOONING INTEREST: Several radar balloons, designed to detect drug- srnllggling boats and planes on their way to the United States, are floating above Florida's southern coastline. They have attracted the attention of of- ficials in foreign nations who are searching for ways to monitor their own borders. The People's Republic of China, for example, has placed an order for several dozen radar balloons. Insiders speculate that Chinese officials want to protect their vulnerable southern coastline from possible Taiwanese attack . FUTURE FILE: Massachusetts is a traditionally Democratic state, but it still harbors support for Bralunin Republicans like Elliot Richardson. Democratic polls shDw him ahead in the race for the seat of retiring Sen. Paul Tsongas. -The Federal Trade Com- mission will finally release a report on the real estate in- dustry prepared by its Los Angeles office in December 1980. The initial 475-page doeument was highly critical of the lack of competition in br<>kers' fees and \barriers to the free flow of information to consumers.\ But the final report will be substantially watered down. Voter Registration Drive •egister to vote in the No'Vember Elec1ion Now! Where: Carnegie Hall When: April 9, 10, ll SporiSored by Union College andthe~ndependentStudent Coalition (lSC) ..

Page 14 CONCORD/ENS/~: Apri/5, JCJM .- THE ARTS m§ The Thorn,pson TVIins at Proctor's By MARSHA DANZIG Staff Torn Bailey, Alannah Currie and Joe Lee :way are not names that most of the public would readily acknowledge. Yet these three names indicate the people who fonn the internationally known group \The Thompson Twins.\ Formed in 1977, The Thompson Twins have risen in fame with such hits as \Hold Me Now,\ ''Loveon Your Side,'' ''Lies,\ and their first big hit \In the Name of Love.\ \In the Name of Love,\ The Thompson Twins claim, came about by accident. They were .completing an album, when they found they needed one more song. Their music is a blend of African, Latin American, and New York Funk. As one band member put it, \We married percussion and synthS.\ One can unquestionably say that Thompson Twins music is very danceable. Living in South London has made the band members appreciate and . ex- periment with funk, African and Latin rhythms. Their newest single ''Hold Me Now'' has proven the band as continually changing and growing. Although it seems to be a \chocolate box lovers . song,\ as Tom Bailey put it, the band members feel they have tried to put an element of reality into the ballad. The result is a gold single in England and a top five hit in America. One can find ''Hold Me Now\ on the groupJs release ~to The Gap. Their other hit songs can be found on the album Side Kicks. The Thompson Twins have opened for David Bowie, The Police, and Peter Gabriel. The Thompson Twins are obviously a good band, so Union College Students should buy their tickets now. Hope to see everyone at Proctor's on April 12 at 8:00p.m. Some Melodious Sounds The Thompson Twins: Into the Gap • • . Pat Metheny Trio to appear in Troy On Thursday, April19, at 8:00 p.m. in the Troy Music Hall, the Renssalaer Union Concert Board is proud to present the Pat Metheny Trio featuring Charlie Haden and Billy Higgins. In this brief departure from the Pat Metheny Group, Metheny brings together some extraordinary talent for what should prove to be an un- forgettable evening of jazz. Playing bass in the trio is Charlie Haden, who has worked and recorded with such greats as Ornette Coleman, John Coltrane and Keith Jarrett. On dn.rrns is Billy Higgins, who has been playing professionally since his teens. He played for_ tvvo years · with the' legendary Ornette Coleman Quartet. In the 1960's Higgins recorded with ja2z giants Thelonius Monk, John Coltrane and Sonny Rollins. For more information see the enclosed biographies. Tickets are$8forthe general public and seating is reserved. By STEFANIE SPANIER Staff Professor Hilary Tann is: pleased to invite you to attend a masterclass and concert of woodwind chamber music on Sat11rday, April 7. The Nor· theasterly Winds, a professional woodwind q·uintet, came to Union College last year as a teaching and performance tool for Union's own group, .. the Garnet Quintet. This year, Union and its quintet are very fortunate to have them back again on April 7. The day is being co-sponsored by IEF and the Union Arts Department. An open masterclass and per· formance workshop will take place froml :30 to 3:30 and from 4:00 to' 5:00, in AB'202,·'the Northeasterly Winds will give a concert including pieces studies by the student, quintet. The Garnet Quintet-sarah Carpenter, flute; Irene Fassler, oboe; Laura Robin, clarinet; David Civale, horn; and Stefanie Spanier, bassoon, practice weekly on their own Siskind Photo · Exhibition An exhibition of photographs by Aaron Siskind will ·be presented from April 4 through May 16 by the Arts department of Union College in the tem- porary Kruesi Galleries of the Arts builcing. Selected by assistant professor of photography, Martin Benjamin, the works on exhibition will constitute a mini-retrQspective of this veteran photographer, hailed as one of the leading artists of our time, as the in- dividual, in the words of Henry Holmes Smith \responsible for bringing photography into the twentieth century.\ Born in New York City in 1903, Siskind's first major photographs begin in the late 1920's. In the 1930's he executed the famous \Harlem Document\ series, while in the following decade his work paralleled and, some say, even anticipated the principal thrust of the American Abstract Expressionist movement in painting; revealing a special affinity with work of Franz Kline, William DeKooning, and Robert Motherwell. Siskind's odyssey in photography is a. record of the single most recognized American artist in this medium since Alfred Steiglitz. From the early social documentatio~ pictures to his c11rrent work in New England and Hawaii, most phases of Siskind's work are included in tile Union exhibition. Aaron Siskind taught photography for twenty years at the Institute of Design · in · SERVICE we can save you$ Chicago, and until 1976 at tile Rhode Island School of Design. He has been Bingham distinguished Professor of Humanities at the University of Louisville; he has been distinguished lecturer in photography at the Carpenter Center at Harvard University. He is presently in Schenectady as the Jaffe Artist-in-Residence at Union College. · Also on view in the acts building lobby through tile spring term are photographs from a portfolio of work by Edouard Boubat. The portfolio is part of Union College Special Collections, and is the most recent of four photography portfolios donated to the College by Edward A. Shapiro, Union class of 1962. and also with their advisor, Professor Hilary Tann. They are all quite excited to be ex: .. posed to this great and rewarding opportunity. The visiting quintet consists of Wendy Stern, flute; G. Randall Ellis IU, oboe; Susan Hoenberg, .clarinet; David Saunders, horn; and Stephen Walt, bassoon. Not only is the masterclass profitable to the students, but the Nor- theasterly's performance is bery beneficial to Union's quintet due to the fact that the students will be performing some of the same pieces on Parent~s .weekend. When the two quintets work together, they sit in a semicircle of ten. SucP; a fQrmation results in a highly concentrated musical experience for the students. Professor Tann heads the chamber music program at Union as well as being the faculty advisor-director of the Garnet Quintet. She believes } that this program is innovative and advantageous n9t only to the musicians involved but to the Arts Department_ and its students and the Union com- munity as a whole. This is my fourth article published in the Concordiensis; I've tried to enrich your life with each article pertaining to a musical event on campus . Unfortunately, I haven't seen many of you attending. The Northeasterly Winds program should be an invaluable ex- perience. Please come and prove to me that you're out there and reading my articles. Every member of the Union College community that attends this concert and makes themselves . known to me will . have their name announced on the WRUC radio show, \Classical Oldies with Jam 'n Starn\ 12:30 to 3:00 on Sunday. Call my bluff~I'm calling yours. Dutch Hollow Pub HAPPY HOUR .. Start Your Weekend Right! Special Pr.ices on· Fridays Between 5 and 7 p.m. COMING SOON · Bogart Night on Thursday, April 26. Sponsored by the Pub and Gordon's, ''maker of fine gin.& vodka.\ FREE door prizes and great drink specials .. You make the night SPECIAL! We will honor competitors' ads at the ·Pub (or matcti them a~ best we can) 9-11:30 Bring in an ad for another establish- ment, give it to the Pub ·manager, and 1startthe special for the n-Ight! CAUTION: We will not honor any 11 give away\ ads - -- A: Ter foll( the In t the stu< forr Mo~ dis< con WhE .pri< one rati tha ove mo p Str1 is : per but pol fea Pr1 aw eitl I km be< Ca.I in be: re< ret an1 ] ffi( cit ter wi Ur pr1 Tv pe sy sir qu co su Bt H1 ps Dl pl PI El Tl C; 95 P: w to al p; c' 1 u tl p 0 a ll 1: t I ( '

CONCORDIENSIS; Apri/5, 1984 Page 15 THE ARTS Local theatre guide ••• A Night on the Town By TOD DIMMICK Staff As an opening for the Spring Term, I have written the following brief descriptions ,of the area'srnajor stage theatres. In the summaries can be found the locations, affordability for students and the types of per- forinances generally offered. Most places offer a student discount of some kind. Most common is the \student rush,\ where a student can get half price on available tickets within one hour of showtime~ The price rating is: inexpensive for less than $10, moderate for $10 or over, and expensive for $15 or more. Proctor's Theatre State Street, Schenectady, Capacity is 2719. Prices vary from ex- pensive to moderately priced, but student rush is a constant policy. Prices also vary with the featured show and the seating. Proctor's is about five minutes away by car and parking is either free or not much. · Proctor's is the inost well known theatre to Union students because of its proximity to campus and what it offers. Built in 1926, Proctor's is an ornate, beautiful theatre. It has recently gone through extensive renovations. The lighting, seats and other parts are in top shape. Proctor's Theatre is one of the most prized possessions of the city. The wide variety of en· tertainment is unceasing. Union will use the theatre for the Union c()ncert committee's presentation of the Thompson . Twins April 13. Proctor's performances range from symphony and well known smgers to magic and, of course, quality plays from all over the country. Dance this spring inCludes such notable groups as The Berkshire Ballet and The Hubbard Street Dance Copt~ pany. Theatrics include Hello, Dolly and the classic Broadway play, Camelot. Empire State Institute for the Performlng Arts (ESIPA), Empire State Plaza, Albany. There are two theatres. Capacity in the main theatre is 950; in the recital hall, 450. Prices are inexpensive to start with and student rates are soon to be available. The institute is about 30 minutes away and parking is free. ESIPA, commonly referred to as The Egg,. is the newest of the area theatres. It's unique shape is well known on the Albany skyline. Visiting the place is an adventure in itself.Walkmg in, one has the impression of overwhelming size, with 50 foot ceilings that curve into walls. The theatre seats break with· usual theatre tradition in that they are comfortable and have plenty of leg room. There are no obstructed views, and the acoustics are very good. . T9 cover the variety of productions they off~r' they have two programs. The first is the Resident theatrical com- pany that offers many popular and imaginative plays. The other prograrp. consists of visiting musicians, comedians and dancers. Performances this term include Sleeping Beauty, The Threepeuy Opera, and Ten Little Indlans (Agatha Christie). C;~pital Repertory Company The Market Theatre, N()rth Pearl Street, Albany. Capacity ls 250. There is student rush. Prices are moderate; It is about 30 minutes ·frotn · Union, and parking will cost you a buck. Capital Rep is a small, celebrated theatre near the center of downtown Albany. Devoted ·solely to stage drama, Capital Rep has presented many popular and engaging plays. The stage is always a masterpiece in set design and artistic expression. Because of its small size, an intimate at- mosphere is created where one feels a part of the performance. The actor& and actresses are skilled, often known artists who combine efforts to create wonderfully realistic and en-. joyable plays. The Capital Rep season runs from October to April. This season the finishing touch~.iS .... The Wake of Jamie Foster.,\ ending . April 15. The appeal of Capital Rep is in the small size and in the quality of what they offer. For the same reason they are limited in what they offer, but youwill never go away displeased. . 'l'he .Palaee Theatre North Pearl Street, Albany. Capacity is 2900. Prices vary with per- formance. Student rush is available 'only for Albany Symphony Orchestra concerts. Thetheatre.is about a agminute drive. Parking is 'not lhard to find. The Palace Theatre seems somewhat of a sleeper. It is the largest theatre in the capital area, yet it is not used as much as it could be. The main at- traction of the plush edifice, is the Albany Symphony Orchestra, which presents classical concerts every couple of weeks that are very popular.· Rock concerts are alSo at- · tracted to the place. The Stray Cats and The Blue Oyster Cult have been recent attractions. The Clash will soon put on a show that promises to do well. T.he Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, Second Street, Troy~ Capacity is 1253. Prices vary, but are usually moderate and student rush is available. Parking is free, and the Hall is about a 40 minute ride from Union. The Troy Savings Bank Musica Hall is romantically· beautiful, on the inside. Built in the 1870's when the science of acoustics was hardly known, the hall boasts excellent sound conveyance. From every seat the sound quality is supposed to be the same. 'l'he hall is dif- ferent from an ordinary theatre in design. Basically it is rec- tangular with lofty ceilings and the curtained boxes in the walls that are characteristic of the Italian Renaissance style. The buli:lding makes one imagine being in Europe many years ago. For those who enjoy classical music, the place is a haven. This spring per- formances include concerts by the Albany Symphony and the Northeastern Wind Quintet 1 bert• F ine• Vi Ua-Lobos•A mold Saturday, April7 ~ 4 p.m. • Arts 202 Bethel Baptist Choir. Other concerts of unusual and fascinating musiC occur periodically. . Memorial Chapel, Addi'es&- If you don't know, go back to high school. Believe me, this place is not hard to find. Quite literally, it is right outside your .front door. Performances are dirt cheap and the variety of lecturers, politicians, and en- tertainers is astounding. Out in the real world Memorial Chapel is actually pretty well known. for its productions and superb acoustics. Proctor's Theatre: provides a wide variety of entertainment The Union Arts Montage Glee Club Concert On . Saturday, April 7, the Union College Women's Glee Club will perform a concert with the singers of the United States Military Academy Cadet Cahpel Choir. The concert, which will take place at 8:00 in the evening, occurs oack to back to a concert performed last weekend at West Point. The main feature of the per- .formance ''Te Deum\ by Franz Joseph Haydn will be a joint effort by the two groups. Selected features from ''Alice in Wonderland\ by Irving Fine and a group of madrigals in celebratic;~n of Spring will also be sung_·by~the tJnion women. The gueSt director, Dr. John A. Davis Jr., is an outstanding organist who has been with the Cadet Choir for many years. The visiting choir which per- forms weekly for Sunday morning services at the Cadet Chapel is highly regarded for its work and travels extensively. ·We extend to them a warm welcome and to the Union College community an in- vitation to the concert. Bittle man Drawings on Exhibit A collection of drawings by Arnold Bittleman; professor of art at Union College, is on display at the Alexander F. Milliken Gallery in New York City through April 11. The drawings, nearly all done between 1970 and 1974 in Cambridge, N.Y.~ Bittleman's home, involve the figures of the Holy Week procession. In the catalog accompanying the eXhibition, Daniel Robbins, Baker Professor of the Arts at Union, says, \The drawings began with specific memories of Spanish celebrations of Holy Week. But the imagery was influenced by where the artist was when he started to work and by the fact that he was thinking about the Vietnam war-\and the holocaust as well.\ Bittfeman has taught at Union since 1966. His work has been exhibited at museums and galleries in New York, Boston, Houston, and other cities and in the United States Embassy in Moscow. Chamber Music ' in Chapel The Academy of St. Martin in the Fields Octet will present a concert of chamber music at Union College Thursday, April 5, in Memorial Chapel, beginning at 8 p.m. The program, part of the Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series, will include string octets by Men- delssohn, Spohr (Op. 77) and Griere. Tickets are $10 and may be purchased at the Schenec- tady Museum, all Gorrununity Box Offices, and at the door one hour before the concert. Student tickets cost $5. The Academy of St. Martin in the Fields Orchestra is known as Great Britain's finest per- forming ensemble. The octet has \toured Europe and North America. Its American debut in Los Angeles was praised by the Los Angeles Times, which said the octet \exhibited poise, equanimity and polish in their music making-without sacrificing expressivity or spontaneity.\ The 1983-84 Schenectady Museum~Union College Concert Series concludes Apri124 with a concert of Haydn, Barber, Beethoven and Brahms by \Music from Marlboro.\ Music of North India Amjad Ali Khan, India's best- loved musician, will give a concert titled \The Music of North India\ on Tuesday, April 10 at 7:30 in Arts 202. Khan will perform on the sarod ac- companied by two Indian musicians on the tabla and the tamboura. The concert is being sponsored by the Arts and History Departments and the Minerva Committee. Khan, inducted into classical Indian m1lsic at the age of five, is descended from oneoflndia's greatest musical families. Today he is the highest paid classical musician in India, . extremely popular there as well as in Asia and Europe. He has performedless frequently in the U.S. but is currently on a coast- to-coast tour that includes Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, New York, Boston, Chicago, Houston, San Francisco and Los Angeles. We are most fortunate to have him come to Union. The sarod is an extremely difficult instrument to play, demanding of the performer perfect pitch, since there are no frets to help as in the sitar. The instrument has 19 metal strings, four carry the melody, four vibrate the basic note, and eleven are tuned to the notes of the raga. It is made of a single piece of teak wood shaped and hollowed out with the large end covered with stretched skin. As · is customary in India, the musicians will perform on a slightly raised platform with the audience gathered around them on the floor. The public is invited to attend. AUSTRALIA Are you interested in visitin·g Australia? A group of students is looking into the possibility of starting a term abroad to Australia. Many students are interested, so please get your name to us. . \ Please send your name, box n.umber, and phone number to Box 2185. . A meeting will be held next Monday at 3:30 in Strauss Lounge. All interested please attend! > ~ rn 0 ... Ill Ill c 0 ..., > .0 0 0 ~ Cl ...

CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/5, 1984 CAMPUS NEWS SCHOLARSHIPS The National Endowment for the Humanities has announced a unique grants program for individuals under 21 to spend a summer carrying out their own non-credit humanities research projects. The Younger Scholars Program will award up to 100 grants nationally for outR standing research and writing projects in such fields as history, philosophy and the study of literature. These projects will be carried out during the SUilliiler of 1985. The . application deadline is Sepm tember 15, 1984. For guidelines, write to: Younger Scholars Guidelines CN, Rm. 4!6, The National Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, D.C. 20506. The Capital District Chapter of the National Association of Women in Construction (NAWIC) No. 261 will soon be awarding its' .fourth annual scholarship. The award is given in the amount of $250 per semester for a total of $500 per recipient. It is awarded on the basis of need and scholastic achievement to full-time students in an ap- proved degree program related to the construction industry-ie., architecture, engineering, construction technology. For more info contact the Financial Aid Office. The Jewish Children's Ser· vice Organization (JCSO) offers need-based scholarships and loans to Jewish students from the Hartford, CT area on a continuing basis. For in- formation, write JCSO at PO Box 17-386, Bishop's Corner Branch, West Hartford, CT 06117. The Purchasing Management Association of Eastern New York is offering two $650.00 scholarships to juniors and seniors with interest in pur- chasing as a possible career. Applications, which are available in the Financial Aid Office, must be completed by April10. Region 1 of the National Association of College and University Food Services is offering a scholarship to a student who intends to pursue a degree in Food Service Administration or a related field of study. The basis for selection includes, but not primarily, need and academic achievement. More information is available in the Financial Aid Office. The Subcouncil on Research and Grants is now soliciting . proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Please specify if your project will be completed before June 20, 1964 or if funds will not be needed until July l. Applications and guidelines are available .in Dean Kaplan's Office (S100) Science and Engineering Center. The deadline for submission of these applications is Monday, April 23rd. It is anticipated that another round of funding will occur sometime during the fall term. That round will be primarily for new faculty who have not previously received such funds or faculty who wish to begin research in an ~rea new to them. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should bedirected to Dean Kaplan. CAREER NE'WS WMHT-TV: WMHT. is par- ticipating in the Nelson A. Rockefeller Minority Intern· Program. One student will be selected to spend 10 weeks acquiring an overview of a public broadcasting facility and receiving on-the-job training in specific technical areas. Deadline: April 6. The Environmental Planning Lobby: sponsoring Legislative Internships in environmental politics for the fall. Applicants should have good written and oral communications skills; interest in legislative process, and dedication to en- vironmental protection. Deadline: May 1. Soutb Street Seap()rt Museum: offering sl!_mmer internships for students en· tering sophomore, junior and senior years. Located on the East River in lower Manhattan, the pro-gram offers interns a diverse and challenging work experience. Deadline: April 16. The Center for Study of Responsive La.w: non,.profit Ralph Nader organization that supports and conducts a variety of research and educational projects to encourage an in· creased awareness of the needs ofthe citizen conswner. Several writing and research in- ternships. are available. Summer Jobs in Securities Industry--Juniors: are you interested in a summer position with Shearson·American Express? There are potential openings in local offices and New York City ip sales, operations or )unior ad- ministrative work. Send your resume and cover letter to George Murray, Shearson~ American Express, 7 Village Square, Westport, CT 068880. Recruiting Federal Reserve Bank of N.Y.--4-10-84-·BS--Computer Science Mjrs. for Systems Development Function. Mutual Ufe Ins. Co. of N.Y.- 4-10-34-.Ap.y Major for Sales (Mutual Funds, Disability Ins., Estate Planning, Life Ins. Busine.ss-working towards Sales Manager. mM Corporation-Owego-4- 12-84-·BS·MS--EE's & CS Majors--E·E's-·for Computer Design, Sys. Engineering, Component Engineers, Test Equipment Engineers. CS Majors--for Programmers (Software Developxnent, De$ign Automation & Information Systems) Vemltech-Deer Park, N.Y.- 4-12-84-BS·-EE's for Protect Engineers. (instrument motors) ( AC-Servo Motors) If you are interested, please stop in the Career Development Center and sigD-up. There are position openings at IBM- Poughkeepsie for Electric Engineers and Physics Majors in Corporate Coinponent Procurement and Component Vendor Assurance. Minimum GPA: 3.0 Please mail your reswne and transcript to: Mr. Paul Levitz, IBM- Poughkeepsie,- Dept. A22-, Building 908, Poughkeepsie, . N.Y. 12602. SPEAKERS· On April5, 1984-3:45 p.m. in Room 312, Bailey Hall, Union College, J. Lawrence Murray, Retired, Vice Chancellor ·for Administration, S.U.N.Y., Retired, Executive Director of State Facilities Development Corporation will be speaking on the subjectofBWlding a Camel: Designing Facilities to Fit the Purpose of the Program. Faculty, students and the interested public are invited. Friday night, April 6th, J.S.U. will be holding its B'nai Brith dinner. Cult deprogrammer, Hesch Morgan will be speaking. Dinner is at 8:00 in West College and the speaker will be following dinner. $2 for mem· bers for dinner with mem- bership card; $5 for non- members for dinner. Speaker is free . .......... - ... - ............ 1 I 12th Annual Student I I · I 1 PHONATHON 1 1 1 April 30th- May 3rd 1. 1 5 : 30-9 : 30 p. m. 1 Carnegie Banquet Room 1 I Sign-up sheets posted in .·I· residence halls I RSVP Annual Fund Office I I By April 25th with your team - x617 4 I 1 Prizes, Fun, Food 1 ............. - ........ ; ...... 11 On Thursday, April 12, Program Director of St Peter's Hospice Inge Corless will be speaking . in the fourth noor lounge of Carnegie Hall at 7 p.m. on \Loss and the College Student.\ Admission is free and all are encouraged to attend. CLUB NEWS Social Committee is spon- soring a T-shirt contest for Camp Union T -shirts .. There's no theme so draw what you wa11t!!! $25 prize. Drop them in Student Activities with name and phone No. There will be an· organbational · meeting for CAMP UNION tonight, Thur ... sday April 5th at '1:30 in Stage II. If you can't make it but want to help, send name and Phone No. in box 2548. Hebrew Speaking Table, Mondays, 12:30 in the Pub. A.prH 6-Cooking with y41ur Coat On: Quick and Nutritious Meals for Busy Women, speaker-Anne Bartholomew of the Cooperative Extenslon. Sponsored by the Schenectady Women's Network, Friday, 12 no()n, Schenectady YWCA, 44 Washington Avenue. Members free, non-members $1.00.. For ffi()re information call Miriam Ballert at 346-6106, or Phylis Ochs at 382-3500. 'Fhere will ·be_ an organizational meeting for all students interested in Curling next Winter. The meeting will be at 1 p.m. on Friday, April 6th, 1984, in the Warm Room- Achilles Rink. If you cannot attend please contact Steve Wing-382-8673. Bible Study--Fri~ay, April Gth-4 p.m. . in the Campus Ministry Office. Sr. J()an will lead a study of and pray with the Gospel of Matthew. New members welcome. Newman Club-Monday., April 9th-8 p.m. 4th Floor l.Qunge Carnegie. Weekly meeting and social. Ecumenical Lenten Prayer Service--Thursday, April 12th- 4: 30 p.m. Stage II Carnegie. Gail George, through the ex- _pression of Liturgical Dance, · will lead us . into a .prayerful experience of God. .conf.irmatlon Classes--Su- nday, April 8th--3·5 · p.m. Campus Ministry Office. · For College students wishing to be Confirmed on May 26th. For further information call Sr. Joan 3'7o-6087. Lenten Program-A series of four Interfaith Prayer Service~ are being sponspOred by the Campus Ministry Office. Sister Joan and Rev . .:Hugh Nevin are co-ordinating the program and it is their desire. to involve as many talented · students as possible to show how the Arts provide a way of giving creative praise to Gpd. Thurs. April 5,- 4:30 p.m., Carnegie, 4th floor lounge..:viswil AJ:1S:' - The Film Committee Presents: April6 thru April&-zetrg;-r, 9, 11-SS 016. Admission is $1. April 10 and April ll~ne with the Wind, 7, 9, ll-SS016. Admission i~ $1. HELP WANTED.· PositiQns at Grafton Lakes State Park, P.O. Box 163, Grafton, New York 12082. S~asonal Employment-salary '!Ill be ~3.40 Per Hour. Starting tnne will be late May to Labor Day. Three Positions on Maintenance. Applications available in the personnel Dept., Silliman HaU. Relief· Station Needed in a supervised cominunity residence for adults in the Mental Health System. Must be available through the summer and be willing to work weekends and. overnights. Mature, flexible, caring people need only ap.ply. Experience preferred, but not necessary. Call Mary or Karen at 372-3934, Monday-Friday. DUll • - - 0] nE fo fr A] aJ aJ m p, A 1~ - c H A; p' fo tt cc u 5, b4 s, c ir d T p &

CONCORJJIENSIS, Apri/5, 1984 Paxe 17 CAMPUS NEWS HELP WANTED' Union College's Acad\emic Opportunity Program (:AOP) needs 3 peer tutor counselors for its 1984 Summer Pr()gram from June 29 to August 11. Applications are now available and interviews . are being arranged in the .A:OP Office. For more information contact Patrice .J3urwell at 371Hilt5. Application deadline: April 16, 1f}84. Football, Hockey, Soccer players, etc. wanted by local · photographer for male figure studies. Some nude work required. $20;00 per hour. Must be 18-24. years, 6 feet or more and at least 195 lbs. Photo or detailed' description and :PhOne to; Box 2169 ESP Station Albany, New York 12220. CLASSIFIEDS 1983 Subaru . Brat w-cap. Excellent Condition. Asking $6800.00. Call after 6 p.m. 370- 3398. . . CPR course to be offered at Health Services, beginning Ap~il 11 fr-em 2:00-4:.00- PM. Please call for more in- formation 6121. The Academy of St. Martin in the Fields Octet will present a concert of cha~ber music at Union College Thursday, April 5, in Memori~l Chapel, beginning. at 8- p.m •. , . The program, part of the Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series, will irlclude string octets by Men- delssohn, Spohr and Griere. Tickets are $10 and may be purchased at the Schenectady Museum, all Conununity Box Offices, and.at the door one hour before the concert. Student tickets cost $5. Travel to Rome, Athen&, Lisbon, London;· Paris, Frank- furt, etc. from only $99 each way. Call now or send for your FREE' brocnure. Operators always on duty. Enclose one dollar for postage and handling. Europe Express, Inc. 3460 Main St., Hartford,. CT06120 (203) 522- 6580. Safe Place is a support group .fer families and friends of suicide victims. Suicide ''survivors'' are often devastated by this cruelest of all deaths. Twice a month people who have exPerienced this doubly tragic death to a loved one meet to share cir- cumstances, emotions, ex- periences, information and s~pport. Meetings this month will be held on Tuesday, April loth and Tuesday, April 24th at 7:30 p.m. at 727 Madison Avenue, Albany (The Friends . Meeting House.) For more information call 482.;0799. Typing-Papers ·typed with professional results by executive secretary. Fast service and accurate proofreading at $1 per page. Call Judy 39!)4383 .. Typing done for students. Please. contact 346-5104 · ~iskayuna area Please contact 355~3239 Knows me<Ucal terminology Please contact 377-4215 Scotia area. Orientation Advisors' Applications· are now . being accepted. Pick up r your ap- .plication at the student affairs office and return no later than Friday, April 6. Interviews should be scheduled upon turning in completed ap- plications. Found: One small young male cat. He is orange and striped (like Morris) . .If you lost him, or if you want him, please call 370. 6730 and i!Sk for Jackie or Chitr.a, The National Guitar Summer Worksl)op (NGSW) will begin its 1984 season in New England on July 21st. The NGSW is a series of one-.week long in· tensive guitar workshOps. An outstanding faculty of professional perfonnerl!!\tea- chers will conduct courses in Rock, Classical, Jazz, Bluegrass, . Folk-Blues (fingerpicking) and Bass. For more information con- taGt: Mr. David· Smolover, Director, .. NGSW, Dept. C, Box: 222,. Lakeside, Connecticut, ·06758, or call 203.007-8529. PERSONALS ... : Dear J odi-Happy 22nd'! Love ya! Love your housemates at 700. Big John~ Thanks for \sweeping me off of my feet\ at Slapshots! I ! Little Santa CongratUlations Davidson. You played quite well. But don't expect the same luck next y_ear!!!! SOT New Sisters: Congratulations!!! · You're terrific! Love the old sisters Delta Gamma would like to congratulate the new sisters and brothers in Sigma Delta Tau, Beta Theta Pi, Phi Delta Theta 1 and Sigma Chi. - · Dear Baby Bro-Here's a personal just for you. Love ya (most of the time)! Love, Sis Hey sidekick! -sidekick HEY 3rd Floor Rich: Thanx for the ZOWIE Bon Voyage Party. GO WilD this spring but PLEASE take it easy on Sigma Chi. WRITE SOON!!.!! Tr;idHooMare BETH: I miss ya. THANKS for everything. Good luck with Lax, beware of the BLOB, and keep an eye on Bazooka Joe. I've · definitely come to the conclusion that sometimes you're HYPER. Luv Mare {No Way Man) To Lenny (the king of bees): Licka.....Sticka- Poka....JTeUa~ !don't even kno-wa! ??? Mr. Potato Head: How's Mr. Nick these dayS?'! I hope he's OK. I LOVE YOU, I LOVE YOU! I YOU KNOW YOU'RE MY ONE AND ONLY! ! ! Heh, Saturday nite, let's eat, urn, them with salad dressing. Should be a blast. xoxoMrs. Potato Head Lisa F: The last time I was at a pacty, I didn't see any fog or hear any good romantic music. WHY NOT????! Hey, typing got a little more expensive, it's now uh, er, a few more .... Love ya lots and I always will. Di CLIFF: Throwing me in the pool is the only way you'll ever get me wet! -Fifi ROBB · IN 4TH FLOOR WEST: You low-life worm! Clean up your barf in the hall because you're disgusting the rest of us on the floor. -The Classier Zoo People LUDWIG: We will always hrtY.e the las~ J~ugh. Ah,.,. ~weet revenge! -The slick ststers Daniel Bart, my favorite KLUTZ! It's always party-time over there. Give more advanced notice about your. car, please ... Did you find my album yet? Oh well, someone has -a THE SHORTEST DISTANCE BETWEEN YOUR EMGIM DEGREE AND MAMACi COULD BE O.C.S. If 0 .C.S. (Army Officer Candidate School) looks tangential at first, look again. Look at it from management's point of view. M~nagement wa~ts e~g.in~ering skill plus leadershtp ability tn the people it moyes up the ladder. O.C.S. is a great place to get started on leadership. It is a 14-- week challenge to your mental and physical toughness. And if you pass the-tests, you will come out strong, sure and in great shape-_ a commissioned officer in the Army, ready to exercise the leader- • · ship that ciVilian companies put such a premium on. If you are about to get your degree in engineering, the O.C.S. chal~ lenge could be your best next step. . To find out more about O:C.S., call the Comma~ding Officer in your area: . ARMY. BEALL YOU CAN· BE. good frisbee I guess! ILU, Diane Union College .... Where the men are men ·and so are the women. Anonymous FACE l!! It's Gonna Get Better ... never forget that. I can't wait until the blur ()f spring term-again! No more dancing on slippery tables. You know I love you more than I could ever say. You've finally gotten your long awaited per- sonal. Pete the Geek: Close :rour legs! Your breath,stinks! They're dead-l'm not sure about the taller one but the shorter one sure as hell is. I'm watching you and I still like what I see .... I'm watching you now, Craig. Don't go baking for nQ~y­ you know what I mean, so don't be doing it. L.S.-Drop Her. Richmond is ·back in town; Fuzzballs-We've missed you in the library. Your fraternity brothers say you're back at the house studying car\nal knowledge. Hope to see you soon. OK, Wendy! On your mark, cadet, go!!!! Kaddish will be said this evening for Othello and Orada (I hope not for Adaro also). Burial at sea is planned. Hey Posk-I don't care. what anyone says-you cause smiles!· Guess who If. you ever want to see Granny again follow these in- structions carefully! You must swear under oath never\ to threaten your male grants -with - again. Secondly, if you continue to force all the heavy work on your one male grant, Granny will be swinging fl'()m a ceiling. If you should attempt to stop us by threatening our members, Granny is history! Please sign an agreement and post it within 24 hours or else ... M.G.T.O. Male Grant Terr()rist Organization P .S. Don't call the cops or we'll flush ~ranny down the t()ilet I To the poor, frustrated M.G.T.o~~ Please do not llarm my poor, innocent, 97-year old Granny. She has a weak heart and cannot take much more of your amorous advances. I understand that she has been your only date for the past six months. but will you please return• her. All demands will be agreed upon. S. Organizational Meeting for Camp Union Tonight 7:30p.m. / Stage II

. :. Page18 CONCORDJENSJS, AprilS, 1984 Campus Parking No parking will be allowed by any student, faculty or staff from approximately ~pril 16, 1984 until the construction and rehabilitation of the Arts Building is completedo The area in back of North College adjacent to the Greenhouse and back of the Arts Department will be used for trucks and equipment No parking will be allowed at any time in the areas mentionedo _ Please cooperate and park your vehicles in the Seward and Nott lot Sorry for the inconvenience, it will be only for this 84·85 school yearo l<estaura11l ard Betr .S01 1-i~ITI [ 5 T. 3q3 • ·OSQ:LJ \Spring Term Specials'' * Thursdays • Ice Teas $l. ()0 '* Fridays~-Happy Hour 4:30·7,. Frozen Daiq.,iris '* Saturdays--Molsons $1.0'0, *Sundays--Rolling Rocks Z for $1.00 * Mondays~-16 oz. Draft 50¢ * Tuesdays--Sea Breeze $1.()0. * W_ednesdays~-Chicken Win11s 2 for 1 Also join us for lunch and dinner weekends as we now have a cook!! ' ' . Union College Concert Committee and WFL Y FM 92 Present The Thompson Twins Ap,ril 12t,h • 8 p.m. Proctors Theatre Students $7 Tickets naw available at the box office Welcome to Miller Titne Beer Brewed liy The Miller Blewii'IQ Comllanv, Milwaukee, Wisconsin THIRKDTG ABOUT SUMMER ••• COLLEGE? TRDJK ABOU'I' L.I. U. L.I.U.-C.W. POST L.I.U.-BRENTWOOD L.I.U.-SOUTHAMPTON More than 1200 undergraduate and graduate courses, intensive institutes and workshops, Festival of the Arts, (workshops, master classes, performances). For a copy of ttle COMBINED BULLETIN· listing offerings at all 3 Campuses telephone .__.:::::.,;,:.;:::;:~ LI.U.-C.W. POST . o • • • • • •••• (516) 299-2431 For Information regarding the Campuses listed below, telephone ' LloU.·BRENTWOOD .............. o . o o 0(516)273·51-12 LI.Uo 0 SOUTHAMPTON .. o .... o .... o .... (516)283·4000. tJ OR MAIL COUPON - ········-·-. ········- • SUJ'ttJIER SESSIONS OITICE c I 1 Long. Island University · I I c.w. rost campus I I GREENVALE, NoVo 11548 I I Name Please oond I 1 Bummer '64 BUlletin for 1 I Address D C.W. Poot I 0 Brentwood 0 Southam:pton I I City' Sta.te, Zip I am int!lreat.ed 1n 0 Da.y I · D Eventng or D Weekend I I Phone ( ) · 0 Undergraduate 1 An Equal OpportunitY 1 Afflrmat1vo Action Inetltutlon 0 Graduate . · · ······-·············-·-~· AT THE RAT Special Events Tonight 10-2 a.m. MARK MASON . Upcoming Events: • Apri I 14th-- The Night Owls--Return Engagement • Ap.ril 21st--The Shades--Union's Own • April 26th--Lynn Miller--Balladeer Extraordinaire Starting on Wednesday, Aprillltll, ope11 mike workshop 9 p.m.\-2 a.m.--musicians needed--sign up at the R(lt• Try out your Cabaret acts ahead of time. The Rat is also· l.ooking for talent f.or this year and next fall. Area musicians will act as consultants, so,come show your stuft • .. - w 1- ~ >- .c 0 - 0 .r: c. Jc Jo lee A this SOil win Du1 Cot· neb for bon K swi his car nin1 T teru div: wit: but me, 54J In me: 400 pos Ant anc fre1 Ne' rec 800 (Nt Ma

CONCORDIENSl=S~,A~p~n~15~,~~-~-4------------~-------------------~-o_~_e_19 .. Wood is Selected to ECAC All-Star Team 1- 0::: >- .c 0 .... 0 .s::: c. ByGAC.SID Sports S.taff Joe Wocd, Union College's senior guard and co-captain, was elected to the 1984 Eastern College Athletic Conference All- Star squad it was armounced Joe wood ended his outstanding career as Union's third all-time leading scorer with 1,398 points. -SCOREBOARD-· MEN'S LACROSSE (2-0) UnionlO Rochester 7 Union 9 Hartwick 8 y~ste.rday by the ECAC. It marked the first time in hi$ four-year career at Union that Wood.bas been selected to the prE)stigious. team. Wocd, who last month was chosen to the National Association of Basketball Coaches' second team for the second-straight season, finished the 1983-84. season at Union's leading scorer with 472 points and a 19.6 scoriiig average. It was the second consecutive year .that Wood led the Dut- chmen. Last year Wood scored 498 points. A managerial economics major, Wood ended his out- standing career as Union's third aU-time leading scorer with 1,398 points. Eleventh-year head coach Bill Seamon had nothing but praise for Wood. \Not only has Joe Wood made his presence felt as a basketball player at ·Union College, but he's made a tremendous con- tribution to tlle college. As a fine an athlete as he is, he's an even better person. That's saying a lot because he's a heck of an athlete. Wood who has been a starter throughout his entire career, will be playing his fourth year of baseball this spring. AthJe.f.e. of _th·e Wee.k By DREW HURLEY Sports Staff Athlete o·f the Week honors for this week will be taking care of some unfinished business from winter term. Congratulations to Dutchman swimmer Kyle Cotugno and Skating Dutchman netminder Wayne McDougall for gaining athlete of the week honors. Kyle Cotugno is a great swimmer who recently ended his four-year varsity swim career and w1U graduate ~th nine Union College records. 1'he captain of the 1983-84 teams owns the following in- dividual records: 200 freestyle with a time of 1: 50.96, 200 butterfly 2:00.2, 200 individual medley 2:06.11, 100 butterfly 54.1, and the 50 butterfly 25.59. In addition, Kyle was also a member of the record breaking 400 medley relay team which posted a time of 3:49.1 (with Andy Crossley, Brian Chabot and Ron Newbold), the 400 freestyle relay team (Crossley, Newbold and Steve Zehl) that recorded a3:23.21 time, and the 80() freestyle relay team (Newbold; Chris Meyer, Tom Ma.ryanopolis) which holds the record time of 7:33.7. Cotugno is · a biology major and a Phi Gamma Delta brother. The nearby Amster- dam resident plans to attend dental school next year. All Wayne McDougall did was lead the Skating Dutchmen to the national championship game. En route to the final game McDougall was amazing against defending champions R.I. T. as he came up with 61 ~ saves, including 25 in the .four _g overtime sessions. Three of the c. four R.I.T. goals came on the ci powerplay. ;;; Previously, McDougall shutout Wisconsin River Falls 4- 0 in the first game of the two game total goal series, and was superb in ECAC West playoff games against No. Adams and Oswego. On the season Wayne posted a 12-4-1 record with a 3.12 goals against average and a 90.0 save percentage. Prior to the Babson game McDougall'S GAA was 2- 84. In his two seasons in Garnet, McDougall shows a record of 17- 11-3, aGAAof3.5anda90.0 save percentage. . . Wayne, an econonucs maJor, is from Guelph~ Ontario: T -Shirt Contest! Designs needed for Camp Union T-Shirts Turn the design in to Mrs. Marra in. Student Activities with your name, box no. and phone by Mon., Apr. 9th. $25 prize Wayne Me Doug a II Chi Psi Lodge Tonite Semi-formal Attire 11 p.m. SP.ORTS· Winston Britton set a new Div. Ill State meet record in the 500 meter dash with a time of 1': 05.8. Something About Tracksters Britton and O'Donnell By DAVE MARIN Sports Staff The Men's Indoor Track team finished off its season with a second place finish in the Union Men's Invitational (UMI) and several other impressive State Meet performances. Winston Britton set a new Division lli State Meet record in the 500 meter dash to become Coach Russ Ebbetts' first NYST&A Champion. Britton went wire to wire in the semis and finals. Re also ran in the mile relay team which ran its season best of 326.0 only to be disqualified from third place. At the Union Men's Invitational held a week before, Britton took first U1 the 500 meter dash with a time of 1: 05.8; second in the 50 meter dash with a time 9f 5.9, and ran in the second place mile relay team. The other outstanding per- formance .came from the distance medley relay team anchored by Chris O'Donnell which placed first at the UMI. Dave Stanland led off in the half, followed by Steve Black in the quarter, and Rob MoWar in the %. mile. Chris O'Donnell then ran a 4:26 mile, taking the baton in second place and about fifty yards behind. With a lap and a quarter to go, he burst into a sprint that brought him a five yard victory over the previously leading Trinity runner. other notable performances for the season finale were also made by Scott Remillard who placed in the Shot Put and weight throw, along with Mark Dunn. Neal Ricks ran a tactical 5000 meter at the UMI placing fourth in 15:42 and also ran in the State meet. Jim Mann, ~ Union's racearace walker, easily · took first in the 3 kilometer walk. Chris O'Donnell anchored Union's distance medley team which placed first at the u nicm men's I nv. meet. Intramural Spot ]jtr ByG.W. Sports staff \. Sigma Chi's intramural broomball team is the reCipient of this week's Intramural Spotlite Award. Sigma Chi defeated Home Office, a dominant force in broQmball, in a shootout on February 15th. Both teams were undefeated during the regular season with the Homos getting the No. 1 seed. Sigma Chi, captained by - Rick Cananan, defeated TDChi 5-l in the semis behind the scoring of Dave First while the Homos downed the Dry Heaves 3-1. In the finals both teams battled to a 1-1 tie after regulation with Sam Gifford and Eric Collins (Homo cap- tain) scoring, and superb goaltending by Anthony Iacoviello and Larry Perez. After the overtime period went scoreless, both teams prepared for the OiitHJn-one shootout. Finally, Gifford once again slipped one past Perez for the lead and the victory. In the women's broomball final, the Jetson's upset the No. 1 seed Collins' Killers. The Jetsons avenged a 3-0 loss dtiring the regUlar season (their only loss) with a 1..() win in the championship game. ATTENTION! ELECTIONS for new Biology Club officers on: Tuesday, April lOth 4:30p.m. Conference Room A Carnegie .Hall Anyene Interested in a position please contact Stephen at 372· 0358. General Meeting on Thursday, April 5 4:30p.m. • Conf. Rm. A • Carnegie Hall

i ~ ' ' . 10 c 'i: 0 ~ V) ~ c 10 .... u. >- .0 ~ .c Q. Page20 CONCORDIENSIS. AprilS. 1984 PO ••• defeat R.I. T. in semis 5-4 in 4th O.T. DutchDien Lose in NCAA Finals By A. WHITE Sports staff \I don't care if the score was 20.0, those boys can raise their heads high. They had a helluva year.\ So proclaimed head coach Charlie Morrison, referring to the 8~ loss to Babson in the finals of the NCAA Division 3 hockey playoffs. With all due respect to Babson, the result can more than likely be attributed more you he that humble. The 1983-34 Union College hockey season was a great achievement, so you deserve a good gloat. Union had a slightly better record against common opponents than that of Babson, and Babson was much fresher for that game. \We were emotionally and physically exhausted for that· game,\ admitted Morrison, ''and I was a little concerned someone could have been hurt seriously against Senior Center Joe Caruso is one of four senior skaters who have witnessed the turnaround of Union's hockey program. Caruso ends his career at Union third on the all·time scoring list with 121 pts. to Union's 4-hours-plus, 4 Babson.\ overtime victory over R.I. T. the One could almost argue that night before than to assume that the Babson game was an an- Babson was that much better ticlimax to this wonderfully than the Dutchmen. Says long season. The R.I.T. game Morrison, \I'm not one for sour was an epic, a see-saw battle grapes. Babson has a great that lasted until both sides could team. Who's to say how we barely move. Wayne McDougall would have done under normal played the most spiritea game circumstances.'' of his career in net. This was the Sour grapes? Sorry, Charlie. I same team that defeated Union don't think the school will let in the ECAC finals two weeks ... vs. Williams Ruggers Open Sat. earlier, but the Dutchmen weren't intimidated. ''They could b!i playing the Soviet Olympic team and they wouldn't care.\ Morrison claimed {taking a good ·gloat perhaps a little too far).,. ''These guys were just amazing all year. They always. worked hard. They never quit. These guys, Sean Teevens, .botb captains, all the way down the line-I've never been associated with a better group of people ... But we're looking ahead now. All of these accomplishments are just memories.\ Memories, yes. But can't we savorthemsome more Charlie? It's hard to knock some of these moments as just memories: --Union traveled halfway across the country to play Wisconsin River Falls, and were up 3-0 thanks to the tremendous play of the Knight- Caruso-Hodgins line. With one second left to .play Tommy Hodgins snuck a fourth goal by, and that turned out to be the difference in that two game, total goals series. Explained Jamie Knight, \Psychologically there's a big difference between a three goal lead and a four goal lead.\ ... -Joe Picano played in his first game all year in the semi-finals against R.I.T. and scored his first goal on a deflection. That goal represented more than that, for it shows what a fine J. V. system coach Teevens has developed while at Union . . . -GillEgan'sgoal in the fourth overtime against R.I. T. Egan seemed to use all the energy he had left to drive that puck into the top corner. The team was so drained, it barely had enough left to celebrate. But it didn't ·stop fan~ from celebrating. Accomplishments, memories, hardwork, guts. Call it what you will. This team will be a major force in their league for the next few years, and one can only expect more for next year. Thank you, and congratulations! SPORTS HAPPENINGS AprilS-12 Base.ball· Men's Lacrosse Women's Lacrosse Softball • Men's Outdoor Track Womer.i's Outdoor Track Tennis Men's Rugby AprilS Siena Apri.l 7 St. Lawrence AprilS Williams AprillO at Albany Aprilll at Siena April12 Hartwick AprilS at Albany April7 Geneseo A.prilll atSt. Lawrence April6 at We.lls April 1 a~ Rochester AprillO Skidmore (A & BJ AprillO at Siena April nat Albany April 7 R.Pf, NprWich Apri.l n Hamilton, Middlebury Aprilll Ham., Mid, AprH6 Hobart April9 at Oneonta Aprilll Hami,lton April? Williams 3:30 12:00 12::00 3:00 7:00 3:00 3:00 2:00 3:00 3:30 10:00 3:30 3:30 3;30 9:00 .3:00 3 :00' 3:00 3:00 3:00 1:00 • • • St. Rose today Softball Strong ByG.O.O.T.2 Sports Staff The 1984 Union Women's softball team is looking towards another successful season this year. With their eyes set on the State Championship at the end of the,season, the team has been practicing since February 15th. With the crazy weather that we nave witnessed lately the team has spent most of their time practicing in the fieldhouse with only a few opportunities to feel the thrill and excitement of practicing outdoors. Coached by Charlyn (Charlie) Robert and Jim Carafano the girls are being whipped into shape quickly for the opening game against Siena on April lOth. Returning veterans cited although the team lost some strong players after last season, the returning letterwomen are bringing their experience to a young team. The returning players include seniors Barb Bailey, JoAnne Dolan, Ruth Ewing, Linda Gutin, Melissa Viglielmo, junior Peg Petro, and sophomore Patty Richards. In addition to freshmen Jeannie Haller and Amy Stake; there are a few upperclassmen coming out for the team for the first time. Senior Nia ~olakis, junior Robin Weiner, and sophomore Lyla Meader are adding their abilities to the team. Additionally, the team has acquired a few transfer students to . play this year. Junior Angie Miczek tran- sferred from Springfield, a Division I school, to Albany College of Pharmacy, which is part of Union University. Her pitching prowess is going to be a strong asset to the team. Sophomore transfers Kim :Mangino and Gina Zaccardo are als<J going to add to the team's strength. Managing the team will be Lisa Foley. Weather permitting, the team will play a scrinunage today at home against st. Rose at 3:30 p.m. The season begins on April lotb when the team travels to Siena. Come out and support the team at the scrimmage on Thtii'sday and at our first home game, against Skidmore, on April 14th. The game will be played on Library Field star- ting at 1 p.m. A little hint to. all prospective fans,. we're gonna be awes.ome this year and if you miss our games you'll be :mi.s~ing some truly . incredible ballplaying. We'll see you out there!! ByUCRFC Sports Staff this Union squad should be exceptionally strong as thirteen out of its fifteen Apside players are juniors and seniors. This year's squad has so much talent that some players with over two seasons experience will have to play at least part of the season on the B-team, a team'normally reserved for rookies with little or no experience. Even though the team is packed with veterans it is never to late to come out. The Ruggers practice every day at 4 p.m. on Library Field and are always looking for new players. , Laxmen Win First Two Games E .N 10 .... 10 ':£ N .J >- .0 0 ... 0 .s:. a. The 1984 Men's Rugby Team is hoping to duplicate last years performance of 10-3-1. Although the team has lost star fly-half Russ Backhouse from last years squad, it should be able to fill the gap with an overabundance of experienced players. Led by Captains Doug Baumgarten and steve Cole, the team has been practicing since mid-February, and expects to open its season strong against a very tough Williams squad this Saturday at 1:00 p.m. on Library Field. Rugby is an eighty minute physical contest for which experience and excellent conditioning are normally the deciding factors. Considering • If you are sitting around Saturday with nothing to do, there will be an exciting rugby· game in the center of campus, So come support last spring's winningest men's sport-- Rugby! The Union RFC expect to improve their fall record this spring as they open Saturday vs. Williams at 1:00 p.m. on Library Fi~ld. ByG.M. Sports staff The Men's Varsity Lacrosse team returned from Florida after participating in The· Suncoast Lacrosse Tournament over spring break. The Tour- nament was highlighted by a 22- 7 victory over the University of Hartford. The Tournament was a great experience for theteam as they appeared better organized early this week, with victories over The University of Rochester and Hartwick College. · In the first game, the team travelled to Rochester. Con- trolled play enabled the Dut- chmen to win 10..7. The attack looked strong in scoring half the goals. Freshman Rona Piersal scored two goals and added an assist .in his first game for Union. Veterans Eric Kaye and Marc Ehudin also did well, Marc had two goals despite getting injured in the first half. His absence will definitely be felt, he was Unions leading scorer in the Suncoast Tour- nament. The teams depth shOuld help keep them strong in the upcoming games, despite Ehudin 'sloss. The midfield play was consistent as they con· trolled the groundballs and, in turn, the play. Captain Chris Davis, Sam Murray, and Andy Ross each had two points. The defense, especially goalie Rob Crispi, who turned away twenty shots, proved to be the back- bone of the team. Last Tuesday, the Dutchmen faced Hartwick. In a close finish, the team was able to outlast their opponent 9-8. Union controlled the game in the early going, taking an 8-4 advantage. Hartwick fought back, but a late Dutchmen tally secured the victory. Rona Piersal continued to look good scoring three goals ... -· .... - and an. assist. Anojher Fresh· man· attackman, Jim Olney, scored two more goals in a fine effort. Midfield and defense looked strong as they were able to hold their adversary to under ten goals. for the secoild time -this year. Strong points for the team were midfielder Andy Ross with two goals, and defenseman John Drake the gr()urtdballleader in the game. .Special mention should go to the coaching staff, as they were able to get a team with ten freshmen ready to play con- sistently this season. .·~ .. Freshman Rona Piersal (44) and Roger Likewise (25) hustle to control a loose ball against Hartwick Tues. on the turf. Union won 9· 8. . > .::.: \' c ·e ro ~ > ... ... 10 ..J > .D 0 - 0 .c 0. c: ]! ::i :l ro· a. >- .0 0 .... 0 .r; a. - c: A p c I hE St in A: BJ pi tl N 1\1 c: F s I 0 v I s 1

' l 1 r i f s r l 1 s 1 > .:.: \' c: .E IC ~ > ... ... Ill _l > J:) 0 .... 0 s:: c. - 1877 CXIU, No. 19 April 12, 1984 '· Party Guideline Adopted Assistant Dean <>f Students Robert Massa explains the new campus party policy established by the I FC/PHC. · One Year Only . .. By GAYLE ROSENFELD News Editor The Interfraternity (IFC) and Panhel'lenic (PHC) Councils have recently succeeded in drawing up some party policy guidelines which \will apply to all fraternity and sorority social ftmctions which are registered with Union College and-or in• volve greater than 20 persons from outside the house,\ as stated in the actual policy document. This policy took effect Wednesday, April 11. Minimum Requirements The rules themselves are, in actuality, the minimum requirements that fraternities Parity Bill Succeeds By JAN :BARAN Associate News Editor \We students at Union have helped convince the New York State Legislature.of the need for increases in the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP),\ said Independent Student Coalition Representative (ISC), Steven Benson. After many weeks of lobbying and petition-signing for the TAP parity bill in the state capitol, · the results finally came in the New York State Legislature in March, giving major aid in- creases for TAP recipients. The two primary changes were increases in the maximum amount of aid given and income eligibility. Under the original TAP parity proposal, the maXimum award level would have been increased from $2,200 to $2,700, giving an additional $500 to students meeting the maximl.Uil award requirements. These requirements set the level of New York State net taxable income which enables the student to receive the maximum award from TAP. Under the proposal, th~ inc;orne level was raised from $4,000 to $5,000, or a $1,000 income in- crease. Both of these objectives were passed intact, but only for one year, as opposed to the fow-• rear plan originally stipulated m the proposal. Consequently, a drive to pass another TAP parity bill will be needed for the 1985-1986 academic year. As Executive Director of the ISC Jeff Serafini, pointed out, \The New York State Assembly was not even willing to make a four- year commitment\ to students from independent colleges. The TAP revisions were Continued on page 2 Sonnenfeldt Lectures ByAARONTOFFLER Staff .. On Monday Apri19, in S.S.016, Helmut Sonnenfeldt, guest scholar at the Brookings Institute, spoke on \Dilemmas of Arms Control in the 80's.\ In what amounted to a pessimistic prediction, .Sonnenfeldt ob- served that \N<lt a great deal is likely to happen\ and that he sees ''bleak prospects for arms control in the 1980's.\ Sonnenfeldt gave two general reasons why the prospects for arms control in this decade are so bleak. The first is the technical difficulty of ·doing things that are agreeable to both superpowers. When American administrations have come up with . ideas that were negotiated with· the Soviets and would have significant. effect, these ideas were unacceptable to the Russians. The requirements of the two sides cannot be reC()nciled. As a result of Soviet disap- proval, American ad- ministrators change their positions and the result is a proposal that has a marginal effect on the United States' military and little or no effect on the Soviets. To back up this point; Sonnenfeldt eited the proposals of the Carter and Reagan Administrations. The Carter Administration had approximately efght negotiations with the Soviets. They includedS.A.L. T., A.B.M., weapons control, etc. Unfor- tunately, none got very far, even on tbe technical level. The same fate has come to the various proposals of the Reagan Administration. This ad- ministration has put forward many pt•oposals, that, if negotiated and implemented, would result in substantial reduction in strategic nnclear .forces. Almost all of these were rejected \out of hand.\ As a result, the American people label Reagan as insincere. Sonnenfeldt pointed out with tragic irony that the test of Reagan's sincerity will be whether he can come up with something negotiable and therefore useless. In order for a proposal to be accepted, it must be developed, negotiated, passed by ·Congress, approved by the Soviets and it must have an impact. Because of all these steps, obtaining a nuclear freeze or build•down \becomes very elusive.'' Technical difficulty is not the only dilenuna of arms control in this decade. Many Americans believe that there must be a common interest in the part of the two superp_owers to make them collaborate in order to make nuclear war less probable. However, as Son- nenfeldt points out, \Fear of nuclear war is not enough to produce the degree of cooperation· and trust; the degree of impulse required to push ahead in this field.;. \The Right Mood\ . The problem arises when we try to dissociate the topic of arms control from other problems between the two superpowers. The political and psychological environment has considerable influence over even marginal progress. Progress will come from a general environment of im- proved relations. The \right mood\ must prevail before we can make any progress. This point is illustrated by the fact that the· crises with the Soviets in the post-war era have not· been over weapons or weapons programs, but over very specific pieces of real estate. The United States cannot negotiate arms control on the brink of a clash over some real Continued on page 5 and sororities mustfollow.while holding a party. They include a show of identification at the door by all partygoe:rs in return for a stamp which would allow the guests of legal age to drink, a minimum of one elected house official and two house members in charge of the function who will remain sober throughout, no tmattended taps or drinking areas, and the availability of non-alcoholic beverages. Beyond these criteria, the fraternities and sororities may add their own further safeguards. The IFC and PHC suggested that these additional measures could include the hiring of off- duty Schenectady police of- ficers for the night, three sober botmcers to supervise the event, a special house stamp to identify legal age drinkers, avoidance of party over- crowding, admission charges for parties, and a supply of food to \help guard against extreme intoxication,\ ... as noted in the Addendum to the lFC-PHC Party Policy. The rules were officially completed by a committee composed of students in the lFC-PijC. These members are Chairinan and Jt.mior Roger Harris of Delta Upsilon Fraternity; Senior James Parsons. of Sigma Chi who, as noted by the ISC-PHC advisor, Assistant Dean of Students Robert Mass, \basically wrote the final version of the pdlicy\; Jru1ior Jamie Dees of Kappa Sigma who created the policy's en for c em en t rra t ure; Sophomore Daniel Rabinovitz of Beta Theta Pi; Sophomore Robin Gross of Tri-Delta; J.unior Kelly DeFelice of Tri- Delta;. Senior Kathy Stoll of Sigma Delta 'I'au; and Junior Marlene Waldman of Delta Gamma. Massa is quite pleased with the document. ''It really demonstrates what the students can de when they get together to solve tl!eir own .problems.\ With the four fraternity party incidents last fall, Massa sees this plan as \a major step in the right direction.\ The frater- nities and sororities realize the problems involved in hosting a party and are willing to take preventive measures to nalt further incidents. 'the rules incorporated into the policy are not new in themselves, but they represent a commitment from the students. \These are things we've always said ... , but it comes fr.om the students and not the administration this time,\ said Massa. FlleUst According to the party policy, \Each house must file a list of party policy measures with the dean -of students' office. The assistant dean will determine if a house's party safety measures fulfill the minimum requirements outlined ... Each .house must submit its party policy for the coming academic year by the second week of the term. Once submitted, this party policy can be amended by the house at Bn}] time. No house may f'egister a _party tmtil the dean's certification of the policy Continued on natm 2 Program Director of St. Peter's Hospice lnge Corless will speak in the fourth floor lounge. of Carnegie at 7 p.m. tonight as part of the Women's Week celebration, Sbe wilr dfscuss \Loss and the College Student.\ Admission is free . Baseball Wins Two

Page 2 E l'ON('ORDIENSI.~: Apri/12. t98.J By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Featmes Editor 10 \' \It is the purpose of the Planning and Priorities Group to elicit and hear the opinions of the students, faculty, and ad- ministratQrS on the various proposed camp:us projects. It is a means of acquiring opinion, ... stated J!Ulior Peter Mohr,. a member of the Planning and Priorities Group, at the last Student Forum meeting. Last week's meeting diE!oussed a variety of n~w topics. ~ >- .... .... 10 _. >- .0 0 +- 0 ~ a. Junior Brian Laux and sophomore Andrew George have become·chairman and associate chairman, respectively, of the F ina nee Committee. ! The meeting began, as usual, '~ With the coffi.,Illittee reports. Union Finance Committee Modifications Explained By SARAH CALDERINI Staff Many changes have taken place within the Student Finance Committee (F'C). Senior Ben Heckscher has resigned from his position as chairman of the committee. \Ben was an unusual person.' He gave the FC a new image,\ says Sophomore Representative Andrew George, one of Heckscher's successors. Instead of holding an election, as would be done under normal circumstances, President of the Student Forum, Winthrop Thurlow, appointed two people to the position of chairman. Sharing the ''Position are Junior Brian Laux and Sophomore Andrew George. \Since Ben resigned so late in the year, by the time we held an election to replace him, we'd .be into elections for next year's officers,\ says Thurlow. So, Thurlow appointed Laux and George as chairman and associate chairman, respec- tively. Basically, Thurlow suggested that Laux and George split up Heckscher' s responsibilities among themselves. Each are retaining their previous duties as FC members and with their new appointment comes new responsibilities. Laux, in becoming technically the chairman, has lost his vote as an FC member. He is_ in charge of running the FC meetings and taking minutes and also deals with relations between the FC and the College's Comptroller's Office. He also handles project reports from various student organizations. George, as associate chair- man, has retained his vote. In addition to his other duties, George is now a representative for the college radio station, WRUC. The two chairmen, Laux and George, feel confident that they wm chair the FC in the same excellent\ way in .which Heckscher acted. Speaking for Laux, as well as himself, George comments that they are very enthusiastic about their recent assignment. In addition to this new development, another change Fraternities and Sororities Beware . has also taken place wttnin the FC. With FC member Andrew Resnick's graduation at the end of winter term, another spot was left vacant on the FC~ Although Resnick's rl!signation and Heckscher's resignation were merely coincidental, Resnick's resignation did pose still another problem for the FC. The Student Forum approved the Committee on Gornmittee's suggestion of Junior Ira Blaufarb as an official voting member of the FC. Blaufarb's duties include representing the Film Committee, the Social Corn.mittee, and the Speaker's Forum. Alol}g with Blaufarb, Junior Franklin Schneider was ap- pointed as an ad hoc member to theFC. Schneider does not have voting priviledges buf iS now in charge, of the financing· for Camp Union, Fitzhugh Ludlow Day , Senior Fling, and the Concert Committee. The Finance Committee would also Uke to remind all concerned that budgets are due on Tuesday, Aprll 17. . . Fines May Be Levied Continued from page 1 is granted.\ This board will be comprised of fraternity and sorority members. Each house will select a possible panel member from amongst themselves. When needed, four students will be randomly selected from those elected members. If requested, the house being reviewed by the panel may replace as many as two of the ftve panelists whereby replacements will be, once again, drawn from the remaining pool. organization on campus needS to take in order to ensilre a safe and enjoyable social function,\ said Massa. With continued support on behalf of the IFc~ PHC along with campus-wide consideration, this policy should · help to alleviate the problems that fraternity and sorority parties occasionally create. ELECTIONS Fri., Apri I 13 9 a.m.-4 p.m. Carnegie Hall SENIORS' VOTE! Chairman of the Committee on Co.rnmittees (CoC), Jared Squires, pres.:lntedthe CaC's by- laws for official forum ap- proval. However, several argum(!nts were raised to an addition tne~de by Squires regarding recognition · of groups.. With the CoC by-law revision in place, groups who discriminate dn the basis of race., creed, sex, or financial limitation could possibly achieve recognition, ay CoC · approval. Ntunerous members of the forum, inClUding Senior Representative James Parsons believe that t® provision was intended, and should be directed, only to clubs who \discriminate because of gender.\ In addition, several other revision suggestions were made by the .foruni. In response to this, Squires made a motion to table the issue until next week, when the revised by-laws will be presented for approval. The motion we~s voted upon and passed, 7Y -6N-1A. Committee Applications Besides the discussion of its py-laws,. the .Go~ announc~q that .applications for next year's committee. positions \\rtll be available on Thursday, April12. Interviews for positions will comn'lence the :week after. · Next to speak was Peter Mohr, one of the student members of the Planning and Priorities Group. Mohr ex- plained the committee's pur- pose (see lead paragraph) and what the committee has done to date. Some of these topics in- clude the 1984~5 budget, as well as, the renovations to Alumni Gym and the Student Center. When questi<med about the value of student input, Mohr responded that he believbd \that our input is taken into regard. I feel that the group is definitely worthwhile.\ . The Academic Affairs Council (AAC) Student Representative Jamie Danziger presented his report of the .AAC's activities. Presently (as was discussed in last week's Coiicordlensfs ar- ticle) the AAC is working on an improved system for preregistration. The new AAC system makes use of a priority system in which preference is given to certain students based on specified criteria (i.e. senior, major, etc.). On the Monday of preregistration week, the priority of each department for the term's courses is to be ,posted. On Wednesday of that week, sign up lists for the of- fered courses are to be cir- culated. By the Friday of preregistration week, each department will post a list ofthf! students signed up for each of the courses. Card courses will be those which are open on a first-come, first-served basis. . IFC Party Policy Because·ofthe absence of IFC Representative , Joe Bogan, James Parsons presented the Inter-Fraternity ,'Council {IFC) report. At its last meeting, thE IFC formally adopted a party policy. Some of .the new provisions include: the eqrding of all attenders, a required number of brothers who are in charge of the party, the serving of non-alcoholic drinks, and no unattended keg taps. A board was also set up by the IFC to investigate any problems that occur during a party; If trouble arises during a party, the board will c1heck if the house did ac- tually abide by the regulations. If a violation isfound, the guilty house will be fined; up to $5 per brother. With the Trustees not meeting until today, the next report came from Chairman of the Finance Committee, Brian Laux. At its last meeting, the Finance Committee (FC) discussion mainly centered on setting lower ticket prices for student admission to on-campus events. A fonnal motion was adopted in Which starting next academic year, all funded student activities should offer lower prices · of· admission to students. Laux also announced tbat tne .. Fina!ic;e, c.o~ittee W(lS DOW going t~l ui;e part Of 1ts .. $5,000 ~ · ''emergency-continge- ncy\ fund. The fund was decreased from$5,000 to $4,000, making the new total of unallocated fwuls $1,333. Last to be heard from was. the Independent Student Coalition Representative (ISC) Steven Benson. The ISG, together with the Political Forum, College Democrats, and Young Republicans are currently running a student voter registration drive. This effort has been ''quite successful,\ as · Benson put it. Because of the lack of \old business,'' discussion turned towards the area of \new business.\ Elections Com- mittee Chairman Doug Landon announced that alumni representative elections will be held this Friday. Lastly, the forum discussed the Wendy Burnstein Award, an award given by the Student Forum to the member of the sophomore class to whom it believes has performed the most service toward the school. The forwn then ended the meeting by going into closed session where it discussed possible nominees for the award. The committee has drawn up an Individual Fraternity- Sorority Party Policy Form which is to be used to relay each fraternity's party policy to the dean's office. This form calls for the signatures of the president, vice president, and social chairman of each house stating that their respective houses will follow the guidelines they themselves have sub- mitted. These officers also agree to \take full respon- sibility for executing these measures and following all state laws and college regulations concerning the serving of alcohol.'' If a house is part of a corporation then if a problem arises at a party, the entire house is liable; however, if a house is not a member, the three aforementioned officers are the liable offenders. They \are going to be on the line if anything goes on. It's their responsibility,\ said Massa. If this investigating com- mittee finds the houses \negligent .in controlling the event, a fine may be levied,\ states the policy. A maximum of five dollars, per active house member, could be reqUired of the \negligent\ house. \Failure to pay may result in expulsion from the IFC or PHC which endangers the charter of the fraternity or sorority,\ as stated in the policy. Massa's only complaint with this fee is that the committee lowered it from the initial idea of ten dollars per member to five dollars. \If it's a stiff fine then that's going to drive home the necessity'~ of this policy, noted Massa. He does not see a five dollar fine as ''stiff\ as a ten dollar one. TAP Revisions Made 'I:here are several im- plications for Union Students, of Tap ·parity's recent passage. First of all, during the next year, Union will receive $254,000 from New York State to spend on scholarships and financial assistance. Thus, students on financial aid who are not from New York will also benefit from the passage of TAP revisions. The target of theiSC is to have a total of $882,000 in additional funds for Union within the upcoming four years. As for enforcement of the · policy, the IFC-PHC is qttite clear on the subject. \In the event of a problem at a fraternity or sorority party, i.e., fight or problems relating to alcohol consumption or a violation of the Student Condu,~ Code, a complaint may be filiC!d with the.IFC-PHC in which case that fraternity or sorority will come before a panel. · Enjoyable Social Function As a party policy, \It for- malizes the minumum requirements that an Contbued from page 1 devised to eliminate a dilemma previously . faced by in- dependent college financial aid .·office~. The colleges could not afford to tell the students not to apply if they lacked funds; but on the other hand, \The colleges weren't receiving the assistance they shoUld have been receiving from New York State,\ according to Serafini. The campaign for the TAP parity hill in Albany was led by the ISC and cultninated in five days of lobbying in the state capitol which included petition and letter drives covering the Capitol District Area. At Union, the ISC Committee on TAP parityj headed by Steven Benson, collected over 400 names of Union students and delivered this list to the leaders of the legislature. In addition to support from the ISC, TAP parity received· the needed support of the Coinmission on Independent Colleges and Universities (CICU). These organizations were concerned that the hlgh costs of tuition for independent colleges and the lack of assistance · available from New York State would pressure students into attending state institutions because of the lack of funding-. As Benson stated, \The opportunity should be there for a student to make a choice about Which college he or she attends.\ The recent passage of the parity bill does not come wi~out serious opposition. ''Animosity towards in- dependent colleges\ has been noted ~ along with strong criticism from the Legislature. _( 1 wa JoJ th~ r.eJ Alt clt Ac D', Ri Mi As fir Pr He Fr Vf. Le de St E~ PI Di H~ A< a11 M to Al PI el1 m m re h~ \I w rE tb tli t(J w c D a: g b A E n s 0 v 0 t c I ( t

Dr t>e at lf- r- ()f !h l~ of ill a s. 'C .1, te ~) ae ;y w tg d .n g 10 d 0 tt e d ;. y r g t e rl e ) rl r s s t i r ) i ' [ l CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/12, 1984 Page3 Gym Committee Appointed By GAYLE ROSENFELD· News Editor Last November, a committee was appointed by President John Morris to discuss features that might be included in the renovation of the College's Alumni Gym. This group in- cludes Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea; Director of Athletics Richard Sakala; Con$ultant Michael Rudden of Saratoga Assoc·iates, an architectural fimi.; Coach Lynne Barta; Vice· President for Finance John Hauser; Sophomore Lisa Freed; SO'phomore Anthony Valente; Professor Bradley Lewis of the economl<!s department; Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa; Executive Associate to the President Jack Maranville; Director of Alumni Affairs Harrison :Oemgen; AssiStant Adjunct Professor of Biology and Affirmative Action Officer Margaret Schadler; Assistant to Vice President-fot_ Academic Affairs Dwight Wolfe; and Professor Edward Craig of the electrical engineering depart- ment. As of last Friday, this com- mittee submitted its formal report. President Morris Will have reviewed it this week and \Our jOb was to cor:ne .up with a program wi'th some realistic constraints.n D'Andrea then it will be presented before the Board of Trustees today-and tomorrow. \For all practical purposes, we're done with our work,\.said Committee Chairman D'Andrea. The president has - asked D'Andrea to present the group's ·proposal before two board committees, the Student Affairs Committee and the Building and Grounds Com- mittee. With the entire board's subsequent approvl!_l, selection of an ~rchitect for the project wili be the next step, possibly occurring this spring. After that, a contractor will be chosen. \And then,\ added D'Andrea, \I would hope that construction would begin about a year from now.\ Hauser sees the construction phase as taking approximately 18 months to. complete. As for the Alumni Gym Committee, \Our job was to come up with a program with some realistic constraints,\ said D'Andrea. The coiillhittee itself is really a \program\ group. Its job is merely to make suggestions as to what facilities should be included in the gym. The conunittee members are not architects, with tbe ~x­ ception of Rudden. For assistance, the committee conferred with consultants in this field. Jackson Smith, a well known architect of gym facilities, was asked for his proposals for a renovated Alumni Gym. \Some of his ideas may cost more money than we are able to spend, but I think he had some very good\ suggeStions; said Demgen. Also, Colgate University's . athletic director was consulted. The group's members, individually and as a committee; .have visited other colleges with good gym facilities. Among those cam• puses vi~wed were Skidmore, Hamilton,.Bryn Mawr, Hofstra, and Vassar. Obviously, the most im· portant change in Alumni Gym will be its swimming pool. A 2P yard pool size is no longer ac- ceptable when a 25 meter pool is most ·often used in competition. Also, a diving facility w:iU be built so that Union may com- pete in div:ing competitions with other schools. A possible plan for this included diving area would be a \stretch pool.\ In this system, a movable bulkhead would be constructed whereby po()l length may . be adjusted while allowing a diving section to be cut off .from tbe swimming area. Said D'Andrea, \A 'stretch pool' is probably the most versatile design,'' The committee has also suggested that some indoor squash and racquetball courts be constructed. Possibly .a basketball court could be built whereby this game could be _ played either the full length of a gym room or on a smaller portion of the floor. This would allow for additional games to be played in the same room simultaneously. General locker rooms have been discttSsed along with intramural offices, equipment areas, ad- ministrative offices, circulation areas and loWlge space. The key term in ail of this is ''multipurpose.\ With a limited space, .the committee is at- tempting to create rooms that can accommodate more than one type of activity. \The primary focus of the facility is recreation.al and instructiot:tal sports;\ said D'Andrea, excluding that· of the pool's ·use for competitive sports, as well. The Field House Will · still be used for in· tercollegiate sports. There will be a probable space problem, however, if the gym is to incorporate these new facilities. The committee believes that ifthe gym's size is to be increased, it will either be in the southern and-or western direction. \I think we shouldn't fuss too much with the facade of Alumni Gym,\ added D'Andrea. There will be, Wlfortunately, \some disruption in the athletic program\ in the gym, said D'Andrea. The swim team may have to use another school's facilities. However, \It might be possible,\ added D'Andrea, \to phase construction in a way to minimize'' disruption. Throughout this process, the committee has been aware of this relocation problem and has been considering possible alternative spots for the gym's offices during construction. I As to financing the project, a loan will be obtained that will be included along with the loan to be received for the campus center. Hauser sees the project costing approximately four milliondollars, but this figure is flexible at this time. Thirdnyear t\eview The Mechanical Engineering Department is conducting a third-ye.ar review of Rao Guntur, visit~ng ~ss?ciate professor. Member's of the College commumty W1shmg to provide information should send comments. to the Depart- ment Committee, care of Professor W•lllam Aubrey, professor of Mechanical Engineering. The Psychology Department is conducting a third·year review of suzy Benack, Assistant Professor of Psychology. Members of the college community wishing to provide in- formation should send comments to the Department chairman, Rudy Nydegger. D'Andrea hopes that the gym will constitute \a focus that people will really be attracted to .•.. , . Demgen addedtbat the gym could be ''something that alf of our students could use.\ The committee itself wants to see the gym as part of .the College's total program rather than just another facility, noted D'Andrea; With the board's ;probable approval of the comniittee's proposal, these hopes for .. Alumni Gym willsoon become a reality to a college that is .trying to offer the best possi:ble facilities to its campus com- munity. Vice .President for ,l\cademic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea discusses proposed renovations for Alumni Gym. Students Visit Barbados By JUDIE STEINHARDT Staff This winter Professors George and Sharon Gmelch led four studentsto Barbados for an intensive field training program in anthropology. Students took three courses from the Gmelchs: \Peoples and Cultures . of the Caribbean,\ ''FieldResearch Methods,\ and \Independent Study.\ The focus of the program was .field research which the students conducted in separate rural communities in Barbados. Field Methods The first ten days of the program consisted of orien- tation which was held at McGill University's marine station in Barbados, ' called Bellairs Research Institute. The lec- tures given during the first week covered the field methods the .students would' be using to. do work on their' ovm, plus an overview of Caribbean cultures. They were also given assign- ments which enabled them to conduct research in the com- munity immediately. \During the second week, the students were placed in the homes of native Barbadian families. The students were deliberately separated from each other so they would not be hindered in any way from becoming a part of the com- munity. They were given a series of projects and were taught a different research method each week. They learned the following activities: to record data obtained through participating and observing community life, mite up ~ family's genealogy, map a community, and research ar- chival resources and govern- ment . agencies to get in- formation, among other ac- tivities. The goal of these assigtunents was to ease the task of becoming involved in the community. The students were very successful in becoming part of the culture. There were ac- tivities with their families, such as attending church, .cutting sugar cane, catching crabs, or working in the family shop. Almost all assignments in~ volved interviewing or working with the native people in some way, in order to enhance the cultural experience. As S. Gmelch explained, \Field programs teach peop·l.e how to do anthropology, rather than just learning about ~< .. <,;;~·. ~ ~'$: ·.:,.,.J.:. ,~~~0;. ,~:~%§'t~;; ... ' ~ -. . \·\\'-\ .- _:. : ;~--- . -~_.o-, were pleased wben they ·found the students became committed to their projects and involved in the culture. The reason Barbados was chosen as the location for the program was because of the uniqueness of the culture combined with the friendliness of the people. S. Gmelch described how the island was conducive to this type of study: ''Barbados is an ideal place for breaking in student resear- chers-it's safe, the people are friendly, and it's English . . speaking, and the warm climate · · 1: ' VI means that people are outside ~/ ~.,.~ ~ much of the time and therefore _ : :c more accessible to students.\ · i ~ The Gmelchs have directed ,, .E similar programs in different g. places such as Ireland, but they . · \' o consider Barbados the best ~ location. !! Because of the success of the _g program, the departments of c. sociology and anthropology Professor Goerge Gmelch of the may offer another term in sociology/Anthropology Depar- Barbados this year or next. tment. They are not going to make any cultures and behavior from a major changes, but they do book and a classroom lecture. hope more students sign up for Instead of learning what others the tenn to make it more worth- have found, ·students are while. The program should discovering it themselves.'' appeal to students who are Each student had to design a interested in experiencing other research project and then cultures. Anthropology and gather the data using sociology courses are a good techniques they had been background, but not necessary. taught. They wrote up their Students from any discipline findings in the form of two may benefit from the program, lengthy papers; a community however \it is most helpful for study and a problem study. All those who eventually want to do the projects bad one thing in social science research.\ common: all the research was gathered by the participant1 The Gmelchs stressed lhe lliliqueness of the program in their description: \It is not a regular term abroad. This is a ''field program in which students live individually in different communities, and participate in the daily life of those communities.\ It involves a lot of work, but there are many rewards. In designing the program, the professors had been a little apprehensive, thinking it might attract students interested primarily in the sun and beach, but they A Lot of Curiosity The growth experienced from living within another culture lll traverses all lines of academics. S. Gmelch described the benefits for students in another culture. \It makes the students more broadminded ... and they gain more self-confidence in their ability to cope with new ex- periences.\ Students with a little sense of adventure and a lot of curiosity about them- selves, as well as other cultures, will benefit from the program. Software Lacks Quality ( CPS)-As more and more colleges rig their campuses with personal computers-some now require all entering students to come eq~pped with their own micros-- administrators and curriculum planners find themselves· on the threshold of a .new dilemma: the lack of sophisticated, quality software to run the machines. \Ninety-eight percent of the software (on the market now) is junk,\ grumbled Seymour Papert at a recent college convention in Chicago. Papert is a math professor at the . Massachusetts of Technology, and one of the developers of the LOGO program language. ''Generally, not much quality . higher education software has been developed, and what has doesn't have many avenues of dissemination,\ agrees Kim Wiley, research director with the EDUCOM Computer Literacy Project, a consortium of colleges .studyrng t;le c~pu« .. computer revoll!tion. \A lot of schools have startJd acquiring computers and training faculty to use them,\ she adds. \And now that they're ready to go on to the next step (of selecting software) they're hitting a brick wall and asking 'What can I do now?' \. The college software problem stems mainly from a lack of commercial, ''off-the-shelf'' programs for specific subjects and disciplines, officials say. .Aside from mass-marketed word-processing programs, there has been a severe shor- tage of good programs for the liberal arts and even the sciences, they explain. · \The amount of software is quite limited,\ acknowledges Joseph Moeller, dean of educational development at Stevens Institute of Technology, Continued on page 5

Page4 ('ON( 'ORJ>l ENSfS. Apri/12. /'984 Alumni Council Rep Elections Dayton Lee Dayton My fellow cla~smates, the Alumni Council representativt ,; are positions we should ta:i e seriously. As members of tne Alumni Council, they have input into planning ReUnion and Homecoming weekends. 1\s class representatives, they serve as an important com- munication link between the members of our class and events at Union after graduation. The job requires dedicated, qualified people. I am dedicated. The Alumni Council meets twice a year, and I am willing and able to attend an of these meetings. I will take an active role on the council to ensure that the concerns of our class are voiced. I am qualified. As a fonner president of the Union College Glee Club, I have worked with a broad spectrwn of people within the college a-dministration; including alumni affairs. I have helped with ReUnion weekend. Through the Air Force ROTC program l have improved my own leadership skills; and in so doing have learned how to work with other people. This past fall I organized and ran a week-long orientation program for 80 freshman cadets. I enjoy working with people · and as your Alumni Council rep. I believe that I can make an honest, worthwhile contribution to our class and to the college. Remember dedication, qualifications, and DAYTON this coming Friday. VOTE Glaser June Glaser The time has come for you to elect The Alumni Council Senior .Rep. Friday the 13th is the (lay to vote, So mark it down, make a note. I know I can handle whatever it takes To make our reunions really · great. - I've done activities like this before, Maybe I'm crazy for wanting to do more? I organized ''EXPOse Yourself to Union\ in the Fall. And, for two years on the Orientation Committee, I've had a ball. • Now as chairman of the Senior Fling Committee, It seems quite obvious I like to keep busy. What more can I say\? Please do me this favor. All that I'm asking you· Is to vote for JUNE GLASER!!! Melissa Gruen Did you know that there are no events on Homecoming Weekend geared specifically for first year alumni? Considering that over one third of the first year graduates atten,d. Homecoming, this should be changed. How about a reception or even an outdoor tent party with a band? It would be the Alwnni version of Camp Union! Homecoming should be a time to remember our college days; we should really feel like we're Gruen coming home! As president of the Un.ion College Arts Club I have organized events for both Homecoming and Parent's Weekend. As founder of the Club I know what it takes to work hard, to maintain interest over the years, and to start new traditions; I'd .like the class of 1984 to start some of oqr own! I will make things happ'en! Sipperly Stephen Sipperly To the Class of 1984: Working this past fall with Orientation, I've come to realize just how important it is to introduce the incoming students to Union. As the next four years come and go these. students will have some of the most memorable times of their lives and make the greatest friends and receive a fine education. Then graduation will follow and Union will be in the past. But at the same time Union doesn't have to be forgotten, only relived as alumni. Thus I feel that the position of alumni council representative is valuable in keeping us, the class of 1984, together and in touch with Union. The alumni of Union today are one {){ its greatest assets and their input aids in making UniDn one of the best experiences that we will ever have. Therefore we should ensure that future generations get just as much and even more out of Unicm. I would .enjoy keeping my class together and representing them at alUil1ni council meetings. So this Friday, Apdl 13, vote for Stephen Sipperly, alumni council representative. Thank you. · Wilder Susie Wilder There are many reasons why you, , should elect me, Susie Wilder, as your Alumni Representative. Primarily, this is because I posess the necessary qualities and experience to best represent tlte class o£·1984. As a student at Union, I have participated in many clubs and have been an active member of many collliilittees. · I was a quintessential· element in the resurrection of the ·Union College cheerleaders, thus illustrating my sense of the need for campus spirit and unity. I personally saw to the development of the Activities E1q1o, an event now thought to be an inval11able introduction to student life at Union. Aside from this, I have also involved myself in. many well- established committees, such as the Orientation and R.A. Selection Committees, com- mittees fundamental yet in- valuable. I have come in con- tact with ·nearly every aspect of the Union community and it is this contact which makes me, undoubtedly the outstanding candidate .for Alwnni rep. · .I believe, by the way, that the position of A.J.umn.i represen• tative will also enable me to maintain the strong bond which I now feel for our soon~to-be alma mater. Please vote for me-you will not regret it, and neither will I. Thank you. Wilkinson Cynthia Wilkins-on As ·graduation approaches · there are a number of things that pass through a senior's mind. For tne, the common theme among such thoughts is the fact that I have truly en- joyed my- time at Union and have gained much from \the Union experience!' It is this sense of satisfaction thathas led me to seek a way to hold on to Union. The Alumni Council seems to be an ideal way to acc.omplish this goal, not only for myself, but for the rest ()f our class as well. Commencement is a begin- ning but also an end. Our year~ as college students are over, yet our whole lives stand before us, beckoning us ~ith their promises.· The· time we have spent at Union, hoWever, does not need to be forgotten, n()r should our ties with our alma mater fade away. As Alumni Council Representative I would consider my most important dUty to be to maintain O\lr contact with Union and serve as a link between our class and decisions Il\).ade pertaining to life at Union. · I have ·no fancy \campaign promises\ or platforms. All I offer is a simple determination and willingness to accept a challenge. This combination, however, is an it would take to make Union remember the class o.f 1984. The Alumni Council is the governing board of the making proces~. Your considered selection of Alumni of Union. Eac·h year; the seniors elect two Representatives and your continued support of those Representatives to the Council. These Alumni will persons through the years will prove of service to the provide an important input to the College decision- College and yourself. ALL SENIORS ARE EN(:OURAGED TO VOTE. Restaura11t ard Bar S01 HIITII( .ST. 3~3- ().SQLJ Spring Special $1.99 60Z. BURGER FRIES SODA Attention to all Fraternity-Sorority members Non-Mea I Plan goers & those who need a break from cooking! ANNOUNCING the addition of a cook to our staff Saturdays· & Sundays . ~ The fire which raged through 1 07 6 Park Avenue last week severely damaged several flats, including that of Robert Knapp, manager of Hale House. Knapp, who was aHending a conference in Vermont at the time of the fire, lost virtually all of his possessions in the blaze. The College Food Service has organired a drive to assist Knapp to reestablish his apartment. Persons who would like to help wi'lh furniture, household goods or money should contact Kathy Herrick on extension. 6050 or post their (!Ontributions to the food Service Office in Carnegie Hall .. Voter Registration Occurred on Apri18-9, 1984 149 new vo.ters registered Registration was sponsore~ by Independent Student· Coalition, Political Forum. College Young Democrats, and ·Young Republicans / - ,,, I On Form den bE fictio1 accla Trek. tatior Star visi01 the '' talk shQW Trek neve episc the stud• Merr In prod Star wtit1 and mov \QU int~ invo Sta1 pro• Mot exec seq1 ofF A sev thr• the Wal a ,, \a pre car POI off its die ga1 in' ha1 wb teJ jol as he c aJ C( c; D \ w r• c s n v b i f

....... . CONCORDIENSIS, April/2, 1984 · PageS \The Shape of Tomorrow\ By MICHAEL,KNOPF Staff On April 2, Union's Speaker's Forum presented Gene Rod:. denberry, author .of science fiction and creator. of the mghly acclaimed television series Star Trek.. Roddenberry's presen- tation included various bits· of Star Trek trivia, as well as his vision of scientific progress and the \shape of tomorrow.\ The talk ·was highlighted by the showing of the ·infamous Star Trek ''blooper\ reel and the never-aired Star Trek pilot episode, \The Cage,.'' much to the delight of the adult and student audience which filled Memorial Chapel. evening was the viewing of the Star Trek blooper reel. Mr. Roddenberry described the bloQpers as \mistakes made while the camera is running.\ Star Trek fans were treated with seeing the usually reserved Mr. Spock convulsing with lau,ghter and other familiar Star Trek personalities out of their usual character. Judging by the audience's reaction, the bloopers were a tremendous success. The presentation continued with Roddenberry offering his views and predictions of life in the future. According to Rod- denberry, \tommorrow is here now.;, One manifestation of tomorrow is man's vast in- crease in knowledge, doubling what he knows \every seven years.'' Human beings have multiplied tbeit knowledge .eight . times in the past two questions concerning all aspects of science fiction such as the possibility of there being other .intelligent life in the universe. By far, the topic most asked about was Star Tr~k and the subsequent Star Trek films. In addition, Roddenberry gave his opinion on other science fiction television programs and movies including \Star Wars\ and \E. T .'' Roddenberry closed the presentation with the never televised Star Trek pilot, \The Cage,\ an episode turned down by the network \on the basis of it being too intellectual . . . \ a treat for any avid \Trekkie.\ \The World of Star Trek and the Shape of Tomorrow\ proved to be an interesting, enlightening and enjoyable evening with the creator of Star Trek, Gene Roddenberry. Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry spoke to a large crowd in Memorial Chepel on April 2. In addition to creating and producing the television series Star Trek, Roddenberry has written many television pilots and made-for-television movies, . most notably \Questor.'' Along with his work in television, Roddenberry was involved in the two successful Star Trek feature films, producing \Star Trek--The Motion Picture'' and serving as executive consultant for the sequel ''Star Trek 11-The Wrath of Khan.\ decades. By the year 2000, R_oddenberry enthusiastically predicts that man will possess thirty~two times the knowledge as in 1961. · Education Automated \Not a Success\ Altliough the series aired seventy-eight episodes over three years, Roddenberry told the audience that \Star Trek was not a success.\ It was only a \rising fan movement\ and ''a million letters to NBC\ that prevented Star Trek from being cancelled. Despite the show's popularity, Star Trek wastalten off the air at the conclusion of its third season. While in syn- dication, Star Trek began to gat)ier a. ct4t•like following, anc;l in' \its second year in re-runs, had four tiri:res the audi:ence\ as when it was show on network television. Roddenberry jokingly referred to Star Trek as a \show that died and went to heaven.\ An amusing portion of the He perceives the manifestation of'this new-found lmowledge to be the develop- ment of the computer .. He cites the computer as a major in- fluence on society, a \primal human invention on the order of the wheel, language and the printing press.\ According to Roddenberry, the computer, \man's perfect servant,\ will completely. transform the manner in which man lives. He predicts that the computer will necessitate the creation of ''totally new economic systems\ and will displace ten to twelve million jobs over the next ten to twelve years. Despite these potential problems of the future, Rod- . den~rry. believes that \th.i.ngs · are getting better,\ and. that humans are living. \longer and more fulfilled. lives.\ Following his insights on future trends, Roddenberry came down into the audience for -a lengthy question and answer session. He skillfully fielded Continued from page 3 which broke new ground last fall by requiring all entering freshmen to purchase personal computers as they enrolled. \There's a long way to go in the development of quality software,\ he laments. \A lot of it is still in the mode of page- turning (merely using the computer as an ·electronic textbook), which doesn't take advantage. of the sophisticated ability of computers.\ Indeed, college experts now argue that software should move from the traditional \flashcard\ use of computers to a new, higher level of software which calls on students' abi:lities to synthesize and hypothesize what they are learning. ~ ''That 98 percent of the soft- ware that Papert calls junk is basically drill-and-practice programs,\ observes Marc Tucker, director of the Project on Information Technology and Education in Washington, D.C. Lighting increased • •. Campus To IDuminate the pedestrian gate, and will last up to six to eight By WRI OLIWENSTEIN pruning of the shrubs there to months in contrast to the three- Staff permit better visibility; ·an month life of the globe lights. On March 27, a group of male and female Union students conducted a walking tour ·Of the campus, accompanied by Director of Security Clifford Wood. The purpose of this tour was to compile a list of recommendations concerning campus lighting. These suggestions included areas needing fixtures and areas which already have lighting, but for which the lighting is insufficient, or blocked by foliage. . These students and 'Campus Security developed a list of twelve requirements for campus lighting. . These proP<>sals will be attended to as part of an C>ngoing lighting program which has been !It progress for the last three or four years here at Union. This survey discovered twelve areas for lighting in- stallation or improvement. These include an additional fixtW'e required on 'the nor- theast corner of the bridge by the Field House; a wall pack installed on th~ southeast corner of the Field Hquse toward Hickok Hoq.se; a 1ight · standard to be installed on the walk from Alexander Lane to Phi Delta Theta Fraternity, located near the southeast corner of the field; an ad- ditional Ught standard in the area from Alexander Lane to additional light standard on the Wood also believes that vapor walk by the southeast corner of lights illuminate better, and Lamont House; an additional there i.S a clemopstrator backup light standard to be installed on which is on the Science and the north side of South Lane Engineering Building currently across frd'm the Career to see to the .effectiveness of the Development. Center; light units. standards at the stairs down to This concern for the lighting West College and Richmond on campus is not new to College; a light standard at the Security. As Wood states, \We south side of Becker Hall along spent around ten thousand the walk; an additional parking dollars in the last three years lot light standard in Fox Dorm- for additional lighting on tory's parking lot on the nor- Union's campus. This is an theast corner near West ongoing program. What we're Cotlege; a wall pack over the saying here is that we're always east door of Richmond College; trying to bring our lighting and a light standard on the program tQ a point .where our south path to Chi Psi Frater- COllege· will tie' as w'eU-lit as any nity. - oth~r college in the area, but there always is room for im· provement.\ Jacksoa's Gardens Lighting In addition to the above changes, Campus Security has recommended a couple of areas in Jackson's Gardens for lights. According to Wood, \We don't want students walking around ther~ (the gardens) in the middle of the night, but I say for the time when people are using it, until we close it at night, it's important to have some illumination.\ ''An addition to the aforementioned list of changes is the new type ·of vapor lights which are going to be installed in place of the traditional globe lights on campus. These lights Campus Security is presently drawing a map to be included in the new Student Handbook. \We are preparing a map of safe walkways, walkways that would be more patrolled than offbeat walkways,\ says Wood. In addition, he believes that student input is an important part of the process. \With the students' input, it helps tremendously to organiZe our budget and organize our planning for the future.\ The Campus. Security hopes to get a good deal of the lighting work completed before tbe 1984- 85 acadenrlc year begins but primarily during SUIIliiJ.er break. Most software simply uses the computer \like it was a 16 millimeter projector\ to display information and check students' responses to questions, 'Tucker says. \But a computer is a very soppisticated tool\ which in- stead should be used to help students create models, syn- thesize information, and create \·what tf?\ scenarios, he asserts. In a history course, for in- stance, Tuckersaysrathertlban drilling stUdents on the dates of historic events, software should allow students to change the course of those events and test various history theories on computer models. In the absence of such soft- ware, however, many colleges are now developing programs themselves. Experts at Brown University, for example, are developing some ''very sophisticated graphics programs\ that allow students to make graphics models and take fuller ad- vantage of computing power, Tucker says. Likewise, University of Maryland researchers just developed a program wbich allows students in .photo-optics classes to \build\ optical systems on a computer instead of in a laboratory. \There is a need now for colleges to develop software for their own needs\ rather than using the general, often low quality software available commercially, explains , Stevens' Moeller. But not everyone believes there is a dearth of quality, off- the-shelf software. 'Ole idea that most software is junk \was all right a couple of years ago, but things have changed a great deal in the last several years,\ claims Caroline Stauffer with Apple Computet·s' education division. \Weymour Papert wants you to look at LOGO\ when he assaults the quality of most education software on the market, she argues. \Of course, out of the 24,000 education programs on the market, some have to be in· ferior; But there are now top-of- the-line programs available that anyone would be hard _pressed to label jWlk,\ Stauffer says. And as the market grows, more quality software will appear, she and other experts predict. Textbook publishers, for example, are now jumping on the programming bandwagon, while some universities themselves are creating spin- off companies to market the software they've developed. Still, . the majority of education software remains based on the notion that com- puters must ''automate education\ rather than \enhancing it,\ according to MIT's Papert. \When computers first en- tered the realm of education in the sixties, they had a very simple process: to automate teaching through rote drill-and- practice exercises,\ he says. To have su<:h programs available commercially, however, \we need to change the ways we negotiate licensing for mass program purchases,\ says EDUCOM's Wiley. Arms Debated Continued from page 1 thing. Americans need to be · cabn and patient. After discussing the major dilemmas, Sonnenfeldt made a recommendation to the U.S. government and that of the Soviet Union. He suggested that the two \try to make progress in very specific, very concrete, and very modest areas.\ He made an analogy to governing New York City. When governing New York, although it would be impossible ;to fill in aU the potholes and get rid of all the. rats, it is possible to put a dent in the rat and pothole population. This same dent in the area of arms control would :tnakelife easier and migbt yield more results than the grand, comprehensive proposals, the so-called \millenia! .suggestions.\ In conclusion, Sonnenfeldt expressed his hope that both the United States and Soviet governments exercise caution in what they do .in their military programs. He would like to see careful, not careless, programs. Programs that would help improve and increase - Sonnenfeldt suggested that the two (super- powers) \try to make progress in very specific, very concrete and very modest areas.\ deterrence to make the threat of nuclear war le.ss probable. Finally, in response to a question that expressed how difficult it was to find happiness in life, Sonnenfeldt said regretfully, \It is easier to achieve happiness than arms control.

Poge6· CONCORDlf.'NSI.~~ April 11, J'JI!J-1 FEATURES lma·ges:- Changes. Islands Ilene Kaplan, DeaR of Faculty, is the I mages Sociology Professor. Schaffer Library: By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Featured Editor Union is a unique school in that in addition to its terms abroad program, it offers specialized field courses, and , multi-discipline courses. One relatively new course which embodies both .is Images of the Sea. Images of the Sea, which is now presently planning its third season, is a multi-disciplintary course which encompasses biology, philosophy, soCiology, • and engineering. The main goal of the course is to \focus on island and sea life and the technological applications involved in the pursuit of in- dividual, soCial, and biological adaptations to the marine en- vironment.\ The course, which is offered only during Fall Term, actually begins two weeks before the start of the term. Students and faculty (Biology, Barbara Boyer and Margaret Shadier; Matt's Unique Experience :By MATT NANKIN The fourth floor of Schaffer Library houses the Special Collection which contains the archives of Union College. It is a very special floor, yet many students spend their entire four years here without once ven- turing into a place that em- bodies the very spirit of their school. This is unfortunate because going up to the Special Collection is actually very simple. As a public service, I now present my own first ex- perience to the top floor of the library. Upon asking the reference librarian if I may enter the hallowed halls of Union's rare and valuable archives, I am immediately given a complex form that asks about my references, work experience, and criminal record. l aro. told to wait for an indefinite period. I later learn that such diverse individuals as my grandfather, third grade teacher, and the doctor w:ho delivered me are all interviewed on :the nature of my character. Three weeks later, I am called back to .Schaffer Library and allowed to visit the dreaded \Special Collection.\ The reference librarian leads me into a vault-like room with a twelve-incll steel door. The room h0;uses the elevator that will take me to the top floor. The librarian leaves me in the ·elevator alone and pushes the proper buttons. However, she warns me not to touch the electrified walls and , at this time I notice that there are closed circuit cameras at the top of th~ fourteen-foot ceiling. The doois finally re-open on the top floor and I hesitate just before stepping outside into the great unknown. As I turn the corner, two German shepherd~:; instantly lunge toward me, held back only by a strong metal chain, held onto by an ole! security guard named Fritz who was recently put on trial by the U.S. Justice Department as an alleged Nazi War Ciminal. The book I have requested is waiting for me, btd the German shepherds gnash their teeth as I reach for it on the otherwise barren table. After hurriedly taking down the information I need, Fritz calls back the elevator, wishes me a fond farewell, and throws a piece of raw meat at the dogs to keep them occupied while I depart. I leave the Special Collection and the library, also. Immediately, two men in black overcoats appear out of shadows and tail me back to my room. It has not been a very pleasant day, but a most informative one though. 827 McClellan Street · Schenectady Baflalo Stylet ~ Chicken wmgs UNION COLLEGE NITE Every Wednesday, • 5 pm til 1 am1 2 () ·\'!.. · Discount with a current 7fi Union College 1.0. Card WINGS ONLY • Celery and Blue Cheese not included No Deliveries • No Coupons On Wednesdays . •••••••••••••couPoN••••••••••• .. I Buy 20 or More Wings and I I · . · I 1 Get 10 FREE 1 1 Good thru A1>ri I 21st (except Wed. nights) I • Closed Easter Sunday • =-··-························ 393-0164 . PLEASE NOTE: Wing Wagon is currently 11.1nder new ownership. Therefore; as of tOday, no coupons issued before April12, 1984 will be honored. Orlly colJpons from this date on will be l!ccepted. Philo·sophy, President John contrast. The implications are Morris; Soci~logy, Dean Ilene not just biologjcal.'' Kaplan; and Engineer.ing, .Paul \In addition, the oppor~ Weiss) stay on an island in tunities at Hurricane seem Maine for the two ·weeks~ There greater (-that at Appledore). We they study the adaptations (Union) together with Outward made by the inhabiting Bound are workiJ:tg op. an em- organisms to the conditions of bryonic institution 1 Though we islancf life. The ethical and are sacrificing laboratory sociological impliaatfonsof the facilities, the fact we have island · environment are also direct input counteracts the examined. loss.'' Outward Bound also The conditions of this island possesses three powercraft, are then contrasted to those of making trips to nearby islands an island which is more feasible. In addition to the ten or \civilized\ (i.e. Manhattan so days spent.on the island, both Isle) during a weekend fieldtrip the students in Marine Biology which ta~es place near the end and Images will sail on a 2.00 of the fall term. mile cruise northward along the Upon return to Union, Maine coast. \The cruise will analysis of island life is con~ provide ·additional illustration$ tinued, culminating in the of the points we bad been presentation of student making,\ quotes· Dean Ilene research papers. The focus of Kaplan, the Images sociology the paper. (and an o.ral .professor. . presentation) is on an in- As said before, Images is a terdisciplinary. marine topic, course of a different nature. somewhat along the course Kaplan adds, \What I find most lines. . unique about Images is the fact In the previous past two that several faculty, (at least) years, Images of the Sea has one from each of the four spent its two week .perio~ at disciplines is brought together Appledore Island in Maine. This in such at atmosphere . . . The year, however, a different informality, and more personal locale has been chosen: nature of the student-teacher Hurricane Island, Maine. relationships is an added bonus. Whey the switch? \Hurrican Images is truly a special Island is unique in the sense course.\ that it gives us access to dif- Images of the Sea is currently ferent island environments,\ making plans- for its third states Barbara Boyer, one of season. A general informational the Images biology professors. meeting will be held Thursday; \Besides Hurricane, there are April19 in S301 at 4:45. All who two other nearby islands which are interested are urged to· offer a direct environmental attend. .------------~--1 I 12th Annual Student I I I Pf!~~1-'£~qN il 5:30·9:30 p.m. ·I Carnegie Banquet Room 1 I Sign-up sheets posted in 1 residence halls I RSVP Anmtal Fund Office I 1 By April 25th with your team· x6174 I 1 Prizes, Fun, Food 1 ·--------------· He I Hom1 Union's the Col games, events Homec until 0 alreadJ wm 1 organil sible variow Homec comm stud en I severa tenn. Ther this Promo .andthl forme facilit< ofthel Pro me about weeke subco: supen memt I Thi: Colle! the 21 Conv1 with distin Circl1 ThE Jeffr1 Uniot Outs A wax only appr1 andi - - -

, ........ / CON{ORDIENSIS, Apri/12, 1981 Poge7 FEATURES. Homecoming .Plans Begin By PETER MOHR Staff community can obtain in· form.ation regarding Homecoming. Last fall, buttons displaying the Dutcbman logo were distribtJted as well. ahunni during Homecoming. The Homecoming Committee, supervised by Edith Berkowitz, Director of Alumni Programs, will be holding its first meeting on Thursday, April l2. at 4:30 p~m. The meeting will take place in the :fourth floor lounge of Carnegie Hall. Anyone in· terested in joining the com· mitte.e is invited to attend. Edie Berkowitz, Director of Alumni Programs. Homecoming is a time for Union's graduates to return to the College for a weekend of games, speeches, and speci~l events. Although Union's Homecoming Weekend is not until October 12-1 '!, ·plans have already begun to ensure that U will he a success. Tb~ organization which is respoil· sible for coordinating tbe various weekend events· is the Homecoming Committee. This committee, is open to all students and will be meeting several times durin~ the spring tenn. The Parade Committee organizes · the float parade which. takes place on the Saturday of Homecoming weekend, Members of this committee provide infondation regarding the floats. On the day of the parade, committee members also ensure that the event runs smoothly. Exposing My Inner Self 'l'llere are two subdivisions of this organization, the Promotional Day Committee andthe Parade Committee. The former is responsible for facilitating .camptis. awareness of the Homecoming activities on Promotional Day, which occurs about one week before the big weekend. The duties of this subcommittee in elude the supervision of a table whelle members of the campus Members of the committee are encouraged to contribute to the development of the Homecoming theme and to the design of toe weekend brochure. They design posters and a sheet sign which is hung frmm Carnegie Hall as well. The Hom.ecomirig Committee also needs students to assist in greetiilg the alumni at Lamont · House dtiring the Friday and Saturday of Homecoming weekend. Lamont House con- tains the Office for Alumni Affairs and is often one of the first places visited by the By CHRIS SILER Once in a great while, you make a mistake that you know will literally haunt you for the rest of your life. My purpose in writing is to sJiare my big mistake, in the hope that it prevents at least one person from dofug what I have done. I am not looking to be redeemed-for the only one who could have forgiven me is gone, but perhaps someone will benefit from my loss. Let me tell you about my Ullion's Circle K Wins Awards · By DAVID DWORKIN Tbis past weekend, the Union College Circle K Club attended the 25th anniversary Circle K Convention and walked away with three of the most distinguished awards given to a Circle K Club. The fir.st award, received by Jeffrey Chess, the President of Union College Circle K, was the Outstanding. Preside-nt's Award. This award is given to only one president out of the approximately 70 in the state, and is based upon achievement, involvement and general leadership. The second award which Union received was the Single Service Award, which was given for our annual Freshman Starvation Kits. This award is given for the most meaningful project which best fulfills the themes and objectives of Circle K International. The final and greatest award received was the first place tropny for the gold division of the New York District, which is awarded to the best and most successful Circle K Club in the state. , Circle K is an international service organization that raises money for various charities and organizations, and contributes man-hours for public. and school Tonight at Proctor's Union College Concert Commi!tee and Wf-L Y FM 92 Present • • • The Thompson Tw1ns April 12th • 8 p.m. Proctors Theatre . ' . Students $7 Tickets now available a1 the box office Welcome t.o Miller Time events. Each activity that our club members attend are like social events {especially the dinners and discos that are occasionally commandeered by Circle K members). There are also inter-club events with other Circle K clubs, including SUNY · Albany, Skidmore, and Russell Sage. We are very proud of Jeff and the rest of the club, and look forward to another award- winning year with our new board. If anyone is interested in joining Circle K, or just in seeing what it is all about, weekly meetings are held Wednesday nights at 7:00 in the fourth floor Carnegie Lounge. If you are interested in the group hut can't make the meetings, please don't hesitate to speak with any of the officers. President-John Rusnica-370. 6957. Vice-President--David Dworkin.-370-64ri1. Secretary--Meg Egan-370- 6492. Treasurer-Rob Gross-370. 8617. Lieutenant Governor-Jeffrey Chess-370-6957. grandfather. The .first day the flowers came out in the spring he would call my brothers or sister and ask one of them to pull the weeds--sometimes they went, sometimes they didn't, but I never did. We would go to visit my grandparents and he would give us cokes and tell us long ·stories about boxing, porses or early cars. I watched t.v. instead of listening. I remember being embarrassed during a cross-country race because he was the loudest of all, cheering. Our birthdays feil on the same day and he used to send me silly poems scribbled on paper-last year I for;got to send him a card. This past summer my grandfather was in the hospital. He said that he was old and would die soon. I told him not to talk such nonsense--.that he was strong and would be around for a long time. I really believed it, too. But then I 'Went away for the summer and didn't really think of my grandfather until my sister was calling me early one morning to say my grand- mother had died. I went to the f1meral and in the midst of his sadness my grandfather took a moment to notice that I had put on weight and said, \Chrissy you should start running again.\ I didn't realize how proud he was of my achievements. I didn't think he even noticed. It turned out that my grand- father was devastated by the loss of my grandmother. {Funny how we tend to think that \old\ people don't feel emotions as strongly as we do.) He became very ill and was in the hospital for several months, and then in a nursing horne (regrettably) fQr a couple of weeks. He would get cranky because he wanted to go home, so visits with him were not always pleasant. I conveniently managed to avoid them. To think that all he wanted was a little attention. But when I went to see him on March 2, it hit me. He was very ill, and would never see me run again. How many times could I have just sent him a letter or called him to show him I cared? Now it was too late. On March 3 the call came. He would've loved the flowers at the funeral. Why wouldn't he wake up for just a minute so I could tell him how sorry I was? I know I'm not the only one who has gone through. tbis. I hope someone who reads this will try to put him-herself in my_ place, and take a minute to call someone who is lonely. I learned too late that being in college doesn't give on an ex- cuse to forget home. Strange that I rWl more often now. Whenever I do, I think of him- and I dread the first flowers of spring. Se11iors Don't forget to vote tomorrow 9am- 3 p~ Carnegie for your Alumni Council Representatives Fridays HAPPY HOUR 4:30-7:00 ~~&LAPSHOTS Frozen Daiqlliris i$1. 50 Mixed Drinks .95<: Ill 10 Cl :E u Cll 1: .r:;. Q. 11) 0 ~ ~ .r:; Q.

PageR Foun~M al lfnion. Coll~t 1!17'! ----~----~ --~------ Party Policy Found . The IFC/PHC party policy took effect this week. This policy was. designed to set guid~lines for maintaining a safe party atmosphere while protec- ting the liability of the fraternity or sorority spon- soring the event. Such policies are necessary to protect against parties getting out of hand and the serving of minors, as well as the preventi~n of alcohol-related accidents. In order for such a pohcy to work, however, there has to be cooperation from the members of the Greek m~ganizations as well as the campus community at large. The policy guidelines call for such practices as th~ checking of ID's and the supervision of the event by sober housemembers. While the theory behind the party policy is good, we have to wait and see .if sucn guidelines will be upheld in practice. While we have seen the administration's past attempts at alcohol policies falter, perhaps this student-initiated policy wiH be more effective in preventing some of the party problems which were seen last fall. We hope that the College conununity will cooperate in carrying out. the new policy. ~ile ~veqrone may not approve of the changes the policy Will brmg about, such measures are necessary in order to ensure a safer and more pleasant party atmosphere. Forum Bylaws ~Missing At the end of last year, the Student Forum had promised the arrival of its bylaws-the guidelines for · the operation of the student government. Yet, even after an official campus-wide acceptance of the bylaws, they were never produced. The new year began, and new promise of the Student Forum bylaws carne. Delay after delay followed. Finally, after a critical funding question faced the Forum, bylaws were promised. Three weeks later, the Finance Committee presented their bylaws. We laud their expedient efforts. Now, some twelve weeks after the announcement, the Conunittee on Committees is coming forth with their bylaws. But what about the Forum itself? An ad-hoc committee was formed some three months ago, with no evidence of their efforts. The Forum is presently operating without gu!de~i:r~es. It is unfair of the ~or~ to ask each student: activity to possess a constitutiOn and operating regulations if they themselves have none. We need the bylaws soon to insure the . legitimacy of the Forum. FINAL NOTICE All Student Activity Budgets are due into Mrs. Marra · by 4:30p.m. next Tuesday (4/17/84) • NO EXCEPTIONS • - AnENTION SENIORS- NOWISYOURCHANCETO SPEAK AT YOUR GRADUATION Any Senior Interested in Delivering OUR Student Address Please submit a typed copy of your 3-5 minute speech to Mrs. Marra, in the Student Acti~ities Office. By MONDAY, APRIL 30th Please include your name and I D number ('(JNCORDit'NS/.S: April/2, 1984 LETTE.RS A Different Principle ' . To the Editor: that it was the underlying principle of Nazism. In Commentariesofthe AptU In his commentary, Mr •. 5, 1984 Concordlelisls Thomas Haven discusses. how power pf Haven in Underlying Principles suggestion can be positive or · equates the atten<ling . of por- negative. However, he faUs to · nographlc movies with certain discuss whether going to por· elements (no less than the no graphic movies is actually principle itself) of Nazism. This positive or negative. I can site creative reasoning is faulted several aspects of viewing a and misleading in many ways. pornographic· movie (e.g. Mr. Haven cites the abuse of release of tension) as well as . • the 'body as \the principle negative aspects. Certainly one ·. underlying\ Naxism. Certainly person's pornography is · such ab~e was present in the another person's en· • holocaust. However, I reject the tertairunent. And what about propo~ition that it was ·indeed violence itself? Does Mt. Haven · the underlying element. Some infer that the violence (abuse .of · elements of Nazism were the body) iriherent in football · • militarization, the Volkish and.hockey provide .grounds for . movement, the stern peace of their removal from Union • the Treaty of Versailles, College? What about the · Hitler's own perverted beliefs negative effects of these violent and ambitions, etc. Abuse of the sports? . body does not underlie these Another deficiency in Thomas factors. The said. abuse was not . Haven's commentary results. present In itseU in Nazism~ It from his failure to prove (or was a by-product of other even try to prove) that por- factors such- as Hitler's own nography necessarily equals or anti-semitism and· the Jews' entails the abuse of the body. . position in German society at The Film Committee has tried . that time. Beacause anti- to select films of this genre that semitism was just one element do not contain scenes of rape or in Nazism and abuse of the body S&M that ~ertainly would in- was just one element of anti- volve such bodily abuse. Such semitism, I reject the notion scenes were not present in Wanda Whips Wall Street. · In regard to the public viewing of Klu Klux Klan or' Nazi recruiting films as en· tertainment-Doesn't Mr.· · Haven believethat if such films · were shown i,n theatres (whose · purpose is to make money) people could show their . displeasure by not attending ... Many people on Union's campus attend the occasional x~ rated movie. As soon as there is not an interest in this sort of · movie they will cease to be Shown. However, the crowds at such movies at the present time bear witness to their pppularity. Finally, to equate Nazism · With pornography is as abSUrd as if I had made the following • argument: The limiting ·of · freedi>m was the underlying .. element of Nazism. Thomas· Haven' s efforts to discontinue pornographic movies on · campus limits freedom of speech and . action. Therefore, he \intrinsically approves••- of. Nazism. Certainly Tb()mas.·· Haven doesn't. but then again neither does the Film Com'- mittee nor anyone who attended· Wanda Whips Wall Street. ·· Andrew H. Sharp Film Committee . Softball Rule Appalls Student To the Editor: I am writing to express my when it should have been changed. Kenneth C. Budka '87 It is shameful that such a rule was ever proposed for the league and long past the time disbelief over a new rule im· .-----------------------------' posed on the co-recreational softball teams by the Intramural Office. It se.ems, for some odd reason, that it is against league rules to place a woman on the pitcher's mound~ Now I have it from a reliable source that the Intramural Office is afraid of the ladies being hurt. Their rationale appears to be that women are not strong enough to reach the plate from the regular pitching · distance and must stand ~loser to the batters. Because they stand closer, there is an in- creased chance of injury. Simple answer to this problem: women will not be allowed to pitch. I hope the readers of this letter are as appalled as I am. Perhaps a better, non-sexist answer would be to extablish a minimum pitching distance; those who could not reach the . plate would simply not pitch. . All letters to the editor must be · typed and sub- mitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday before publ icati- on. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. Com.mentaries Repre•en.t the Views of. . the Author and not the Editorial · Board of Con- cordiensis. . SeniQr Fling Meeting! ,:~ \.<-- ........ ~.·~~·~ ·~ ..... ~' :'·: ... ·-, Every Wednesday at 4:00 p·. m.- 1 n Student Activities Office If interested, but can't at-tend, Please put a note in Box 1173 - - - - - I ..

Page 8 (JJJlltfllrbtrnsis Foundffl al ( lmon Co/leg~ 1.'17? ----~----- ---------- Party Policy Found The IFC/PHC party policy took effect this week. This policy was designed to set glilid~lines for maintaining a safe party atmosphere while protec- ting the liability of the fraternity or sorority spon- soring the event. Such policies are necessary to protect against parties getting out of hand and the serving of minors, as weH as the prevention of alcohol-related accidents. In order for such a poLicy to work, however, there has to be cooperation from the members of the Greek organizations as well as the campus community at large. The policy guidelines call for such practices as the checking of ID's and the supervision of the event by sober housemembers. While the theory behind the party policy is good, we have to wait and see if Slilch guidelines will be upheld in practice. While we have seen the administration's past attempts at alcohol policies falter, perhaps this student-initiated policy will be more effective in preventing some of the party problems which were seen last fall. We hope that the College community will cooperate in carrying out the new policy. While everyone may not approve of the changes the policy will bring about, such measures are necessary in order to ensure a safer and more pleasant party atmosphere. Forum Bylaws ·Missing At the end of last year, the Student Forum had promised the arrival of its bylaws-the guidelines for the operation of the student government. Yet, even after an official campus-wide acceptance of the bylaws, they were never produced. The new year began, and new promise of the Student Forum bylaws came. Delay after delay followed. Finally, after a critical funding question faced the Forum, bylaws were promised. Three weeks later, the Finance Committee presented their bylaws. We laud their expedient efforts. Now, some twelve weeks after the announcement, the Conunittee on Committees is coming forth with their bylaws. But what about the Forum itself? An ad-hoc committee was formed some three months ago, with no evidence of their efforts. The Forum is presently operating without guidelines. It is unfair of the Forum to ask each student activity to possess a constitution and operating regulations if they themselves have none. We need the bylaws soon to insure the legitimacy of the Forum. FINAL NOTICE All Student Activity Budgets are due into Mrs. Marra by 4:30p.m. next Tuesday (4/17/84) o NO EXCEPTIONS • -A nENTION SENIORS- NOWISYOURCHANCETO SPEAK AT YOUR GRADUATION Any Senior Interested in Delivering OUR Student Address Please submit a typed copy of your 3-5 minute speech to Mrs. Marra, in the Student Activities Office. By MONDAY, APRIL 30th Please include your name and I D number CO NCORIJI EN.W.\: April 12, 1984 LETTERS A Dif lerent Principle . To the Editor: In Commentaries of the April 5, 1984 ConcordJensis Thomas Haven in Underlying Principles equates the attending of por- nographic movies with certain elements (no less than the principle itself) of Nazism. This creative reasoning is faulted and misleading in many ways. Mr. Haven cites the abuse of the body as \the principle underlying•• Naxism. Certainly such abuse was present in the holocaust. However, I reject the proposition that it was indeed the underlying element. Some elements of Nazism were miHtarization, the Volkish movement, th.e stern peace of the Treaty of Versailles, Hitler's own perverted beliefs and ambitions, etc. Abuse of the body does not underlie these factors. The said abuse was not present in itself in Nazism. It was a by-product of other factors such as Hitler's own anti-semitism and the Jews' position in German society at that time. Beacause anti- semitism was just one element inN azism and abuse of the body was just one element of anti- semitism, I reject the notion that it was the underlying principle of Nazism. In his commentary, Mr. · Haven discusses how power of suggesticm can be positive or negative. However, he fails to discuss wJ:lether going to por- nographic movies is actually positive or negative. I can site several aspects of viewing a pornographic movie (e.g. release ()f tension) as well as negative aspects. Certainly one person's pornography is another person's en- tertainment. And what about violenceitself? Does Mr. Haven infer that the violence (abuse of the body) inherent in football and hockey provide grounds for their removal from Union College? What about the negative effects of these violent sports? Another deficiency in Thomas Haven• s commentary results . from h.is failure to prove .(or even try to prove) that por- nography necessarily equals or entails tile abuse of the oody. The Film Committee has tried to select films of this genre that do not contain scenes of rape or S&M that certainly would in- volve such bodily abuse. Such scenes were not present in Wanda Whips Wall Street. In regard to the . public viewing of Klu Klux Klan or Nazi recruiting .. films as en- tertainment-Doesn't Mr. Haven believe that if such films were shown in theatres (whose purpose is to make money) people co uid show their displeasure by not attending. Many people on Union's campus attend the occasional x- rated movie. As soon as there is not an interest in this sort of movie they will cease to be shown. H<Jwever, the crowds at such movies at the present tilne bear witness to their popularity. Finally, to equate Nazism. with pornography is as absurd as if I had rnade the following argument: The limiting of freedom was the underlying element of Nazism. Thomas Haven' s efforts to discontinue pornographic movies on campus limits freedom of speech and action. Therefore, he \intrinsically approves,. of Nazism. Certainly Thomas Haven doesn't~ but then again neither does the Film Com- mittee nor anyone who attended Wanda Whips Wall Street. · Andrew H. Sharp Fihn Committee Softball Rule Appalls Student To the Editor: I am writing to express my disbelief over a new rule im~ It is shameful that such a rule was ever proposed for the league and long past the time when it should have been changed. Kenneth C. Budka '87 . posed on the co-recreational ,-----------------------' softball teams by the Intramural Office. It seems, for some odd reason, that it is against league rules to place a woman on the pitcher's mound. Now I have it from a reliable source that the Intramural Office is afraid of the ladies being hurt. Their rationale appears to be that women are not strong enough to reach the plate from the regular pitching distance and must stand closer to the batters. Because they stand closer, there is an in- creased chance of injury. Simple answer to this problem: women will not be allowed to pitch. I hope the readers of this letter are as appalled as I am. Perhaps a better, non-sexist answer would be to extablish a minimum pitching distance; those who could not reach the plate would simply not pitch. All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday before pub I icati- on. A II letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. Commentaries Represent the Views of the Author and not tile Editorial Board of Con- cordiensis. SeniQr Fling Meeting! Every Wednesday at 4:00p.m. In Student Activities Office If interested, but can't attend, Please put a note in Box 1173 Photc Staff Jitn c·, tt.n ll>bell, l),avl:dLD-wrotklin, Liz K~itl\,. Steve 'Shapiro~ FratRk1:Jkm~.ina CON'()Ol\DIENSIS is published ey 1rhursday by til~ stu~Jent bOdy of Union Cnlleg~, <Jal'Jl;· · · ··· ... SdlJ.en~m~y, New Yfirk 12308; Pul>lications·Office: Susqu~tm~Pub;icatillns, Ine.l Box 388l Sidney)· ~ew York 13838,. (607J .563-3526. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first class matter~. ~lli.l~eription rate, $!8 per year~ . delivered anywhere in the tJnit~d States. Office ne: 379-6155. ;·ltt,llm}lqStS subscribes . to tile College .. Press Service ), and utilizes the Coll~ge News Burean {CN13}.. · - - - t •! ~· ., .. - •· I _,

CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/12. 1'984 Page9 COMMENTARIES The Union College Staft Association v.till hOld a used book sale from 10 to 4 'P'\rn. Thursd-a;y, Apri.l 26_ in the. lobby of Carnegie. Proceeds of this sale wni be used for tile Student Book Fund. Thi·s i'S a fund set trp to help students who need financial assistance News From The C.apital -for purchasing books. Al:l types of books will be for sale and your donations are needed. Books may be left in the lobby of Lamont House or in the Student Activ'ities Office in Carnegie Hall· between Apri'l16-25. On-Campus Student Employment ·Attention: College Work-Study Stude11ts Position vacancies -exist in va-r:ious departments on _campus, for eligible .CWS students for the remainder of Spring Term .. Students who have received E mployrrrent Opportunity as part of financial aid for the 83-84 academic year and who are not presently employed, are -asked to contact Cin.dy Bouck, Personnel Dept., SHiir.nan Hall. • AUENIION All Photographers. The annual Photography Club Photo Contest will be. held during - Parent-'s WeekeWd 'cin May stll at \ the Nott Memoria-l. • Limit 5 entries per person • All entries must be mounted • Entries may be black and white. or ,color • Bring entries to Mrs. Marra in Car- . negie Hall Dea·dlin~ o-n 'May 2nd By JACK ANDERSON · and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON - Genevieve Giuffrida recently returned from a free, all•expenses--paid trip to Brussels, Rome, Tel Aviv and Paris. She and her husband went first-class- aU the way. They were not sweepstakes vvblners. , , Her hUSband, Louts GUifftida, happens to be the nation's ciVil defense chief. 'lbe trip was official business--which means the taxpayers paict for it. Why did Mrs. Guiffrida get to go along? She is not a goveJ:'Il• ment officiaL We made some inquiries and learned that her run of good luck began when she received a letter last month at her home in Falls Chw-ch, Va. We don't · know if the envelope said, ''YOU are a winner!\ or warned her \Don't throw this away without reading,\ or any of the other come-ons used by mail-order contest hustlers. Probably not. But the letter sure sounded like the kind of junk mail we all · get from tiiile to time. It began, \Dear Mrs. GuHfi'ida: You have · been· invited by the governments of Italy and Israel . . • \ and went on from there. The letter informed her that she had been invited to attend a session of , NATO's civil emergency planning com- mission in Brussels. She was also to go to Rom~, Tel Aviv and .Paris. . . . Mrs. Giuffrida was told· she would fly first-class, and have her .per diem expenses paid throughout the trip. The estimated cost was $7,200. The letter announcing Mrs. Giuffrida's . good fortune was from the Federal Emergency Management Agency-he_r husband is the director-and it was Signed by his executive deputy director, Fred J. Villella. . The letter didn't explain what led the governments of Italy and Israel to invite the dir~ tor's wife to accompany him on HOMECOMING '84 All students interested in helping with Homecoming '84 are in- vited to attend the first student Homecoming meeting. on THuRSDAY, April 12th at 4:30 p.m.~4th floor lounge, Carneg1e. . Winter-1985 Terms.Abroad · Applications are now being accepted for the ~hree terms abroad to be offered in ~e wint~r term, 1985. Tile Cc!leg-e Will offer term~ 1n Athens, Greece, a Klbbutz .J:n Israel, and a tenn<tn Cuernavaca, Men co. . For each program there is a necessar)T Qrereq~ite: For-Greece, Classics 21· for Israel, Hebrew 10; and for Mextco, any level of ·Spanish. E~ch progr~m costs. _abo~t. t~e sam~ as_ a term spent on campus. All scholarships and f1nanc1al a1d recety~d by the student are transferred to the term a broad. ~n orcler to partlc1pat~ a student ID!J.St · maintain at least a 2.0 cumulative average, and be 1n good standing with the Dean of Students. The deadline for submitting applic:atiop.s to ~n:y of Union's ~in~er t_erms is Thursday, April 26. For m()re 1nf~. rmatlon and appllcat10n blanks, please eome to the Terms A bread Office, HU 211. his offi~ial junket. But then, they could afford to be gracious-the U.S. government was picking up the tab. Our associate John Dillon inquired about Mrs~ Giuffrida's trip, but a FEMA spokesman could not explain why it was ''necessary\ for her to par-:- ticip.ate, as the letter had stated. This question is especially germane because the agency's travel budget was recently cut by 20 to 25 percent. But ~e spc~mnan had a ready explanation for why Mrs. Giuffrida travelled first class. Her husband has a back con- dition. It flares up whenever he has to fly for more than 3,000 miles in the cheaper seats, so he goes first class on long trips. Although Mrs. Giuffrida's back is apparently fine, she went first class so she could sit with her husband. RETURN OF THE JACKAL? The world's most notorious terrorist may be planning a bloody ''hit\ at the Olympic games in Los Angeles this summer. He is Carlos the Jackal, the real-life model for the hired killer who almost assassinated French President Charles de Gaulle in the movie \The Day of the Jackal.\ Carlos dropped from sight in 1976 after the botched hijacking that ended in the Israeli rescue mission at Entebbe. He con- tinued his shadowy operations for Palestinian terrorists in Beirut and fled when the • Israelis invaded . Lebanon in 1982. Since then, he has been reported dividing his time between Syria and a Cu~ government estate near San Jose del Lago. But Carlos still owes allegiance to · Palestinian terrorists, and our CIA sow-ces are afraid he will try something at the Los Angeles Olympics- either a terrorist attack or a hostage seizw-e. There is a griiil precedent. Carlos was the man who organized the massacre of Israeli athletes at the Munich Olympics in 1972. JUDGES' COMPLAINT: There is a new t-wist in the Reagan administration's effort to cut the fit and the fraudulent off the federal disability rolls. Social Secw-ity bureaucrats were taking disabWty pensions away .from thousands of men and women, and their methods were often abrupt and highh8nded. Most of those who lost their benefits thDught they had not been treated fairly. They appealed to Social- Security administrative law judges. And in roughly 65 percent of the cases, the judges overruled the_ bureaucrats' decisions. Last year, the administrative law judges filed suit in federal court. They charged that Social Security officials werebringing undue pressure on them, noping to cut down on the number of decisions that are overruled. U.S. District Judge Joyce Green is hearing the judges' complaint in Washington, D.C. If she finds that the Reagan administration is. bringing improper pressure 4;>D the Social Security judges, it could give the Democrats more am- munition on the · \fairness\ issue. I EYE ON THE ECONOMY: Don't be fooled by the recent recall of 162,000 a11to workers to Detroit's assembly lines. There are still almost 40,000 fewer workers employed than at the auto industry's peak of more than 750,000 in 1978. Sources say that some out-of .. work em· ployees will never be rehired because of automation, foreign competition and U.S. com- panies' moves to plants outside the country. -A Federal Reserve Board official privately told us that inflation is the \Loch Ness monster\ of the current economic recovery, because wage pressures are building up in many industries. Inflation could bob to the surface at any time, the o.fficial wamed. Opportunities for Speaking and Hearing Your Favorite Foreign Language at The Dutch Hollow Pub French--Mondays--12: 30 Span ish- .. Tuesdays--12: 30 German-- Thursdays--12: 30 JOINUS!l ATTENTION SENIORS GRA:OUATION IS JUST 59 DAYS AWAY!! Any Senior interested in singing the 'Star Spangled Banner' and the Alma Mater at Graduation Please contact Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office Ltck=::cy=F=r:;):nc., a=y=,=Aa~~c:r=i=l~ 2~~:=h=>t:tcK==•J

.l t i t\'' '\• •. I _, CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/12, 1984 Page9 COMMENTARIES The Union College Staff Association will hold a used book sale from 10 to 4 p.m. Thursday, April 26 in the lobby of Carnegie. Proceeds of this sale Will be used for the Student Book Fund. This is a fund set up to help students who need financial assistance for purchasing books. News From The Capital All types of books will be for sa.le and your donations are needed. Books may be left in the lobby of Lamont House or in the Student Activities Office in Carnegie Hall between April 16-25. On-Campus Student Employment Attention: College Work-Study Students Position vacancies exist in various departments on campus, for eligible CWS students for the remainder of Spring Term. Students who have received Employment Opportunity as part of financial aid for the 83-84 academic year and who are not presently employed, are asked to contact Cindy Bouck, Personnel Dept., Silliman Hall. ' AnENT ION All Photographers The annual Photography Club Photo Contest will be held during Parent's Weekend o·n May 5th at the Nott Memorial. • Lim it 5 entries per person • All entries must be mounted • Entries may be black and white or color • Bring entries to Mrs. Marra in Car- negi,e Hall Dea·dline on May 2nd By JACK ANDERSON and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON- Genevieve Giuffrida recently returned from a free, all·e:.qJenses-paid trip to Brussels, Rome, Tel Aviv and Paris. She and her husband went first-class all the way. They were not sweepstakes winners. Her husband, Louis Guiffrida, happens to be the nation's civil defense chief. The trip was official business--which means the taxpayers paiq for it. Why did Mrs. Guiffrida get to go along? She is not a govern· ment official. We made some inquiries and learned that her run of good luck began when she received a letter last month at her home in Falls Church, Va. We don't know if the envelope said, ''YOU are a winner!\ or warned her \Don't throw this away without reading,\ or any of the other come-ons used by mail-order contest hustlers. Probably not. But the letter sure sounded like the kind of junk mail we all get from time to time. It began, \Dear Mrs. Guiffrida: You have been invited by the governments of Italy and Israel . . . \ and went on from there. The letter infonned her that she had been invited to attend a session of NATO's civil emergency planning com- mission in Brussels. She was also to go to Rome, Tel Aviv and Paris. Mrs. Giuffrida was told she would fly first-class, and have her per diem expenses paid throughout the trip. The estimated cost was $7,200. The letter announcing Mrs. Giuffrida's good fortune was from the Federal Emergency Management Agency-her husband is the director-and it was signed by his executive deputy director, Fred J. Villella. The letter didn't explain what led the governments of Italy and Israel to invite the direc- tor's wife to accompany him on HOMECOMING '84 All students interested in helping with Homecoming '84 are in- vited to attend the first student Homecoming meeting. on THURSDAY, April 12th at 4:30p.m., 4th floor lounge, Carnegte. Winter1985 Terms~ Abroad Applications are now being accepted for the ~hree terms ab!-\oad to be offered in the winter term, 1985. The Co!lege w1ll offer term~ 1n Athens, Greece, a Kibbutz in Israel, and a term m Cuernavaca, MeXIco. For each program there is a necessary prerequi~ite: For Greece, Classics 21; for Israel, Hebrew 10; and for Mex1co, any level of Spanish. Each program costs. abo~t th.e sam~ as a term spent on campus. All scholarships and financtal aid recety~d by the student are transferred to the term abroad. ~n order to part1c1pat.e a student m!lst maintain at least a 2.0 cumulative average, and be m good stand1ng with the Dean of Students. The deadline for submitting applicatio!ls to an~ of Union's .win~er terms is Thursday April 26. For more mfonnatlon and application blanks 1 please come to the Terms Abroad Office, HU 211. his official junket. B11t then, they could afford to be gracious-the U.S. govermnent was picking up the tab. Our associate John Dillon inquired about Mrs. Giuffrida's trip, but a FEMA spokesman could not explain why it was \necessary\ .for her to par· ticipate, as the letter had stated. This question is especially germane because the agency's travel budget was recently cut by 20 to 25 percent. But the spckesman had a ready explanation for why Mrs. Giuffrida travelled first class. Her husband has a back con- dition. It flares up whenever he has to fly for more than 3,000 miles in the cheaper seats, so he goes first class on long trips. Although Mrs. Giuffrida's back is apparently fine, she went first class so she could sit with her husband. RETURN OF THE JACKAL? The world's most notorious terrorist may be planning a bloody \hit\ at the Olympic games in Los Angeles this summer. He is Carlos the Jackal, the real-life model for the hired killer whG ahnost assassinated French President Charles de Gaulle in the movie \The Day of the Jackal.\ Carlos dropped from sight in 1976 after the botched hijacking that ended in the Israeli rescue mission at Entebbe. He con- tinued his shadowy operations for Palestinian terrorists in Beirut and fled when the Israelis invaded Lebanon in 1982. Since then, he has been reported dividing his time between Syria and a Cuban government estate near San Jose del Lago. But Carlos still owes allegiance to Palestinian terrorists, and our CIA sources are afraid he will try something at the Los Angeles Olympics- either a terrorist attack or a hostage seizure. There is a grim precedent. Carlos was the man who organized the massacre of Israeli athletes at the Munich Olympics in 1972. JUDGES' COMPLAINT: There is a new twist in the Reagan administration's effort to cut the fit and the fraudulent aff the federal disability rolls. SGCial Security bw-eaucrats were taking disability pensions away from thousands of men and women, and their methods were often abrupt and highhimded. Most of those who lost their benefits thought they had not been treated fairly. They appealed to Social Security administrative law judges. And in roughly 65 percent of the cases, the judges overruled the bureaucrats' decisions. Last yeat·, the administrative law judges filed suit in federal court. They charged that Social Security officials were bringing undue pressure on them, hoping to cut down on the number of decisions that are overruled. U.S. District Judge Joyce Green is hearing the judges' complaint in Washington, D.C. If she finds that the Reagan administration is bringing improper pressure on the Social Security judges, it could give the Democrats more am- munition on the \fairness\ issue. EYE ON THE ECONOMY: Don't be fooled by the recent recall of 162,000 auto workers to Detroit's assembly lines. There are still almost 40,000 fewer workers employed than at the auto industry's peak of more than 750,000 in 1978. Sources say that some out-of-work em· ployees will never be rehired because of automation, foreign competition and U.S. com- panies' moves to plants outside the country. -A Federal Reserve Board official privately told us that inflation is the \Loch Ness monster\ of the current economic recovery, because wage pressures are building up in many industries. Inflation could bob to the surface at any time, the ~fficial warned. Opportunities for Speaking and Hearing Your Favorite Foreign Language at The Dutch Hollow Pub French--Mondays--12: 30 Spanish--Tuesdays--12:30 German-- Thursdays--12: 30 JOIN US!! ~<=~;T;N=~='J:MIC~=iff::::=. ;E='N=;O=il=;=:;)\111 GRADUATION IS JUST ~ 59 DAYS AWAY!! Any Senior interested in singing the 'Star Spang led Banner' and the AI ma Mater at Graduation ~ Please contact Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office L.====:=F=r:x=x~=y=,=Ax+rcp=ri=l=2x::rch==>~k==J

Page 10 CONCORDIENS/S, Apri/12, 1984 FEATURES On Careers: Be Your Own Boss C.S.D.: By DIANE PAVACIC Career Assistant Starting your own business- it's a dream everybody dreams from time to time. But few ever really achieve that dream, thanks to high start-up costs and high overh~ad. Some people, however, do more than just dream and are actually successful at their en- trepreneurial ventures. An article in the New York Times last year .featured two Tufts University sophomores, owners of DNG Properties, a real~estate company they founded last September that recently purchased a 12-unit apartment house near the school. The two are predicting a $13,000 profit by the end of the year. Another Tufts student designed a calendar titled, \On Campus in Boston '83\ that featured photographs of twelve male college students in both sports clothes and more formal attire. Recently interviewed by the Knickerbocker News, were Cathy Panagopoulos, Kim Jordan and Anne Rourke, ~tli.'l-I'Jo RffUliP.S t f\\t ~ ~ tiA IotA\\ Hf\ graduates of the College of St. Rose, who formed \Silk.Screen Triangle\ years ago. They paint, silk-:screen and draw their own designs onto cards, socks, baby clothes, sneakers, T-shirts and sweatshirts, which they sell at craft shows and shops in the Troy area. The rise in self-starters could be due .to the state of the economy which has brought out the entrepreneurial flair in students. With the cost of education continuing to rise, topping $13,000 a year at some schools, toe extra money is often needed for necessities. One student puts herself through college by running a unisex haircutting business at Sarah Lawrence. She started out practicing on a few trusting friends two years ago. Also interviewed by the New York Times . was Larry Wei:;stnarp1, a senior at the State Unfversity of Albany. He is c<H>wner of the Comic Boo~, which books professional comedians and has produced shows in Buffalo, Albany and Schenectady. He and a friend saw a market in the college audience, put together $3,000 from their savings and went into business. Still, many self-employed students follow well-worn formulas: they deliver balloons, flowers, birthday cakes, break .. fast in bed, late-night snacks, and survival kits during final examinations; run typing, dry- cleaning, house painting, carpentry, massage,, photography and transportation services; plan trips; publish alternative newspapers, and sell clothing, art supplies and stereo sets. While the profit motive is a factor for virtually all students,. some are in business to gain experience. They are providing goods and services, making marketing and f.inancial decisions, dealing With banks and lawyers, hiring personnel and keeping the books. Some finance their· ventures with their savings; others convince bank:;, friends or relatives to invest. Their profits range from pocket money to thousands of dollars and at the same time they love the sense of control inherent in self-employment. Of course, some en• trepreneurial ventures fiZzle or run their course. But, at least these individuals followed through with an idea and took a risk. Next time you're looking for a job, ·consider hiring yourself_;be imaginative and creative. Who knows, maybe there's another Steven Jobs or David Liederman here at Union College. 59 Days until Graduatlon Survey Conducted Untill970, Union was an all- male college: as such, it never had to address the concerns of men and women students studying and living together in a c:ampus environment. Along with other formerly an~male colleges, . Union admitted women more than a decade ~go to provide a more \natural\ learning environment for its students. In the mid .. seventies the nature of the College changed as it became more and more a co-educational in- stitution. Now, almost 10 years after graduating the first full class to· include women;. what is the climate like at Union for its students? Has a coeducational Union su~cessfully .provided educational opportunities for both men and women students? T-he Committee on Student Development ( CSD) was for- med last term to address these and other questions concerning the campus environment and its effects on the intellectual, social and emotional development of students. Committee members are Assistant Dean Joanne Tobiessen and Robert Massa (Co-chairs), Professors Christie Sorum and Brad ~wis, AOP .- Director Maxine Shuford and students Jay Baruch, Greg Bowler, Charlene Schultz and Vivian Stern. The Committee is assisted by Julie Wildman,. a senior psychology major who designed the survey in- stl'l.Unent. Early next wee~, ap- proximately 500 questionnaires will be mailed ,to a randomly chosen sample of students. The success of the Committee's study depends ln a major way on student cooperation in completing the 28-question .survey. Once .completed and returned, the surveys will help the Committee identify the issues which need to be ad- dressed in order to assure that men and women have equal opportunities to share the resoUfces of the campus en- vironment, and to face ''life after Union\ as well-prepared, mature individuals. At the conclusion of the study, the Conunittee plans to issue a paper on relationships between men and women students at Union College. The paper would provide recommendation.s to the Student Affairs Council for changes in policy and program development. 1984 Hunger Walkathon April 29th Registration 1 p.m. The lOk walk starts 2 p.m. at Linton High School More info: Call-- Concerned for the Hungry, Inc. 372-9881 U.S.NAVYMEDICINE MEDICALSCHOOLSCHOLARSHIPPROGRAM Are you currendy in medical school and seeking an avenue to continue your education without financial burden, a Medical future that affords a practice with .. out administrative and financial worries? If so, the Navy has an outstanding opportunity for you in the Medical School Scholarship Program. BENEFITS • Full tuition and educational fees • $4 79.00 per month stipend· • Commission as a United States Naval Officer • Internship and Residency training available upon graduation .OBLIGATION • Three years active duty service as a Navy Medical Officer after graduation. · • 45 days of required annual active duty that can be spent in Navy clerkships (required, elective, clinical or research) or at Officer Indoctrination School. . BASIC QUALIFICATIONS • U.S. Citizen • Excellent professional references 8 Enrolled in AMA approved medical school For further information, write or call: LT. John Romac Medical Officer Program Leo W. o•Brien Federal Bldg Albany, NY 12207 (518) 472 .. 4424 ,,. f.• Ct The term should rewar' shOW( to the first B and 1 warm Leslie thrOU! stage profe! the L The .h herr€ My (dedi1 wasi.J songs \Out ''The comp Ever: Love: were andv vers Ther even a ra noun It seco Hart . thee the audi, Her of B popt >- I .:.!. (/) c: ; E tO ::.! >- I.. ..... ttl _J >- .0 0 +- 0 ..c: a. l_ l b( G: dE th C< SE w al B w s1 a: a o: t f~ c c t ( B

,-- f.• CONCORVIENSIS, Apri/11. 1984 Page 11 THE ARTS Cabaret Opens By ARTS STAFF The first Cabaret of spring term set the tone for what should be an entertaining and rewarding season. The second show of the evening was packed to the raft~rs and greeted the first act of Leslie Shalrnizadeh and Dianne Pavacic: with a warm round of applause. Leslie's voc.als were excellent throughout the evening and her stage . presence was very professional reminding one of smattering of originals. Bob opened with some older Beatie ballads, such as \We Can Work It Out\ and \Things We Said Today.\ The best song of the evening was an excellent cover of U2's \Sunday Bloody Sun- day\ in . which he did some masterful guitar. work in his unique interpretation of this new folk piece. Bob did several originals, among them a siJnple, but beautiful love .song and a clever instrumental, done with the help of Marc Steinge!!$er on keyboards. The duet also did a teakoff on Michael Jac~son's \Beat It\ entitled \Drink It.\ The frenzied crowd ·called Bob the Las Vegas nightclub style. The highlights of her act were her renditions of ''Don't It Make My Brown Eyes Blue\ (dedicated to her father, who was in the audience) and-of two songs from the movie \Fame \Out Here ·on My Own\ and ''The Body Electric.\ After completing her set with the Everly Bros. clas$ic \Bye Bye Love,'' both Leslie and ·Dianne were . presented with flowers and were then brought back out ::.. on stage by the screaming ~ crowd. Following the encores, ~ which included· a very pretty ro version of the Ice Castles ::.£ Theme, the M.C.- for the i:': evening, Franklin Schneider (in j a rare stage . appearanee) an- ::.. nounced the intermission. .o It was then time for the ,g second act: \Beatie\ Bob _g Hartman. Bob is a veteran of o. . the cabaret stage and knows all the secrets of putting his audience (and himself) at ease. He manages to blend a medley of Beatles' songs, some other popular and folk songs and a Leslie Shalmizadeh singing at Cabaret out for three encores, and as the final lights came on it was clear that it had· been a thoroughly enjoyable evening for all. >- ::,t. Ill ·= E 10 ~ >. .... .... 10 _J >. .0 0 .... 0 ..t: a. \Beatie\ Bob Hartman on guitar. The Hubbard Street Dance Company. A Night On The Town . By T01> DIMMICK The Hubbard Street Dance Company started the first performance of a two-day stay at Proctor's in .front of an ex;- pectant audience. For those who follow the arts, the light- ning ascent of the HSDC into national attention is well known. For those of us who didn't know, the story is star- tling. Founded a mere five years ago by veteran Broadway dancer and choreographer Lou Cone, the HSDC originally served the unassuming function of senior center entertainment. The reception in their home state of lllinois was so en- thusiastic that the fledgling organization decided to expand their enterprises. Per- formances at local celebrations received critical acclaim,· particularly from Richard Christianiansen of the Chicago Tribune. The local PBS television station created a one- hour show of the HSDC that was so popular it was made available to PBS stations nationwide. After that, the Hubbard Street Dance Com- pany went international in late 1982 at the Paris International Dance Festival. Among later performances were those in New York City and The Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival last year. Wherever this troupe goes the reception always seems to be enthusiastic and glowing . Lou Conte is the Artistic Director and creator of the IiSDC. Several years earlier than the founding of the HSDC, Contestarted the Conte School of Dance in Chicago, Dlinois. It is from this school that Conte takes most of his Hubbard Street dancers. Consisting of eight women and three men, the HSDC has unique talent and energy that is refreshing to see on stage. More than just ballet, the company offers a spectacular com- bination of jazz, tap and ballet. With absolute finesse and physical mastery, the dance combination allows a freedom of movement and expression that will keep the most doubtful viewers interested. It is hard to describe the exact ingredient of their success, rather it is a blending of talents. A summary of the night's dances may ex- press this feeling partially. · The first piece was called lJne Drive, a modern dance set to the music of violin and mandolin. From the start one notices the perfect timing of the company. Every dancer, wearing a skin tight dark suit with a single white stripe along the right side, moved in perfect synchronousness with every other dancer. Our eyes began to see mere flowing lines in the subdued light. As I started to appreciate the perfect timing of the company, I realized its function is not only sameness, but to accentuate contrasting movement. Thus when a dancer steps out of line, and suddenly moves purposely in a new direction, all eyes notice and wonder. \'Go!\ Said Max was a duet between Kitty Skillman and Carlton Wilborn. With red costumes, dark lighting and the slow tune of an alto saxophone leading the dancers through a sultry, moody piece, the tempo was changed radically from the first. The third dance, At the R~sebud, is a classic presen- tation of the HSDC. Set to the ragtime music. of Scott Joplin as well as Billy Joel and Artie Matthews, this series of dances- playlets shows the experiences of two men in a St. Louis brothel, the Rosebud. llumorous and human, the dancers portray the jealous interplay of man. and woman in a smooth, erotic and un- derstandable act. The final three, Full Moon~ Diary and The 40's, the HSDC once again runs the catharsis of emotions. From slow and solemn to fast and funny, the performance was a hit with the audience. Combining lighting and sound with the movement, created a sensual performance where one could feel the passion, not only of the characters portrayed, but also the passion of the dancers themselves. As they danced, I could see excitement on their faces and in their bodies as they lived the parts they were por- traying. Lou Conte, the Artistic Director, has done well, bringing together superb dancing talent with his ad- mirable skill as a choreographer. That the company has risen quickly to fame is no surprise for, after seeing them, I wonder why more people don't know about them already. U.n ion Arts Montage: A Mixed Bag Baytelman to Give Concert Pola 13aytehnan, the Chilean- born pianist now living in the Gapital District, has been described by GWlther Schuller, the renowned composer and conductor, a~ \an outstandingly sensitive and talented musician whose performances are always a joy to hear.\ Baytebnan, who feels at ease with widely different musical styles,. is a well known recitalist and chamber music performer and has appeared as soloist with orchestras in Chile and the United States. Her per- formances have been ace claimed by audiences and critics alike. Ms. Baytelman is presently teaching piano at Union College. A eortcert will be held at Memorial Chapel on Apri118. This one will feature four bands and a solo performance by Ms. Baytelman. She will be per- formirtg a piece by Professor _ Tann, of Union's Arts Depart- ment. The piece is entitled ''Doppelganger,\ and the concert will begin at 8:00 p.m. Institute Seeks Interns. The Empire State Institute for the Performing Arts at the Egg in Albany is now accepting applications for internships for the fall semester, September to December, 1984. The internship is designed to offer teachers, college students and· high school · seniors academic' credit for a semester's work at the Institute. Working as full-time members of the Institute staff, the interns partici'pate in all phases of activities of a _ professional theatre company. During the semester, intersn take part in crew work on sets, · costumes, lighting, or public relations. They attend classes· and workshops in acting, music, movement, voice and education, and are encouraged to audition for parts in the resident company's full-scale productions. Applications and further infonnation may be obtained by calling 474-1199 or by writing to Intern Program Administrator, Empire SUite Institute for the Performing Arts, Empire State Plaza,;Albany, New York 12223. Glee Club Conference On April6-7 four members of the Union College Glee Club went down to Morehouse College in Atlanta, Georgia for the Intercollegiate Musical Council (IMC). The conference theme was \The Male Choir Tradition: Past, Present, and Future.\ The colleges represented by student delegates were Morehouse College, University of Georgia, Appalachian State, Kansas State, Wofford College, Rutgers University, Amherst C,ollege, Cal. Tech. University and Union. The four Union delegates were Christopher Hoople, Meserve Platt, Philip Hot- chkiss, and Winston Bliss. On Friday we attended three sessions. The first session was by Leonard de Paur who talked about his experiences with male choirs. Dr. de Paur directed a choir while serving in the army and toured in the South Pacific during the Second World War. Dr. de Paur is also a well published composer and arranger. The second session dealt with the governing of glee clubs. The student represen- tatives of the various Glee Clubs had problems similar to those of the others; attendance at rehearsals, . ftmdinll from the college, and other sources, support of the administration. and st\,\dent body support. The third session was conducted by Robert Shaw, the music director and conductor of the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra. He is also a well known arranger with the Lawson- Gould Publishing Co. Concordy Meeting Tuesday Night • 7 p.m. 4th Floor Carnegie u c ' .... c ell E (I) Ol 10 1: 10 ~ en ti :.= .... 4: .~ .0 E :;) 0 u >. .0 ,g 0 .c: a.

Page 11 CAMPUS NEWS SCHOLARSHIPS. The National Endowment for the Humanities has announced a unique grants program for individuals under 21 to spend a summer carrying out their own non-credit humanities research projects. The Younger Scholars Program will award up to 100 grants nationally for out- standing research and writing projects in such .fields as history, philosophy and the study of literature. These . projects will be carried out during the summer of 1985. The application deadline is Sep- tember 15, 1984. For guidelines, write to: Younger Scholars Guidelines CN, Rm. 426, The National Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, D.C. 20~. The Capital District Chapter of the National Association of Women in Construction (NAWIC) No. 261 will soon be awarding its' fourth annual scholarship. The award is given in the amount of $250 per semester for a total of $500 per recipient. It is awarded on the basis of need and scholastic achievement to full-time students in an ap- proved degree program related to the construction industry-ie., architecture, engineering, construction technology. _ For more info contact the Financial Aid Office. The Jewish Children's Ser- vice Organization (JCSO) offers need-based scholarships and loans to Jewish students from the Hartford, CT area on a continuing basis. For in- formation, write JCSO at PO Box 17-386, Bishop's Corner Branch, West Hartford, CT 06117. The Purchasing Management Association of Eastern New York is offering two $650.00 scholarships to juniors and seniors with interest in pur- chasing &s a possible career. Applications, which are available . in the Financial Aid Office, must be completed by April10. . Region 1 of the National Association of Coll·ege and University Food Services i~ offering a scholarship to a student who intends to pursue a degree in Food Service Administration or a related field of study. The basis for . selection includes, but not primarily, need and academic achievement. More information is available in the Financial Aid Office. The Subcom1cil on Research and Grarits is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Please specify if your .project will be completed before June 20, 1984 or if funds will not be needed until July 1. Applications and guidelines.are available in Dean Kaplan's Office (8100) Science and Engineering Center. The deadline for submission of these applications Is Monday, April 23rd. It is anticipated that another round of funding will occur sometime during the fall term. . That round will be primarily for new faculty who have not previously received such funds or faculty. who wtsh to begin resear.ch in an area new to them. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should bedirected to Dean Kaplan. SPEAKERS The Development of Proctor's Theatre and Its Programs present Dennis Madden Executive Director, Proctor'~ Theatre on April19, 1984 at 3:45 p.m. in Ro()m 312, Bailey Hall, Union College. } Dutch Hollow· Pub HAPPY HOUR Start Your Weekend Right! Special Prices on Fridays Between 5 and 7 p .. m. COMING SOON Bogart Night on Thursday, April 26. Sponsored by the Pub and Gordon's, 11 maker of fine gin- & vodka.\ FREE Door Prizes and great ·orink Specials. You make the night SPECIAL! We will honor competitors' ads at the Pub (or match them as best we can) 9-11:30 • Bring in an ad for another establish· .ment, give it to the Pub manager, and start the special for the night! CAUTION: We will not honor any \give away\' ads CONCORDIENSJS, April 12, 1984 On Saturday, AprU 14 at 7:30 ' p.m. in Strauss Lounge the Black and Latin Alliance of Students and the Campus Ministry Office are pleased to present An evening of Poetry Reading and Discussion with Howard Eybers; AprU 17-Women's Lunchtime Colloquium Series--Un·ion College Science and Math Panel. Topics of discussion include: · \Calculations of Con- format.ional Energy of BiologicaTly Significant Molecules\' speaker-..,Janet Anderson, Assistant Professor of Cehmistry. · ''Marine Biology: From Woods Hole to .the Phillipines\ speaker--Barbara Boyer, Visiting Assistant Professor of Bilogy. \Developmental· Aspects of Memory\ speaker-Barbara Markiewicz, Assistant Professor of Psychology. ''What Do Mathematicians Do?\ speaker-Susan Niefield, Assistant · Professor of Mathematics. Bring bag lunch-coffee and tea provided. Tuesday, 12: 30 p.m., Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall. CARE'ER NlfWS. •.... The Environmental PlmmJng .. Lobby: sponsoring Legislative lnterns}lips in environmental politics· for the fall. Applicants should ha.ve good wtitten and oral COlllmunications .skills, interest :m legislative process,,. and dedication to en- vironmental protection, Deadline: May 1. ·South Street Seapor·t M-useum: offering .s-ummer internships .for students en- tering sophomore, junior and senior years. Located on the East River in lower Manhattan, the program offers interns ·a diverse and chaUenging work experience. Deadline: Apri116. The Center \for study of Responsive Law: non-profit Ralph Nader organization that supports and conducts a variety of research and educational projects to encourage an in- creased awareness ofthe needs of the citizen consumer. Several writing and research in- ternships are available. Summer Jobs in Securities Industry--Juniors: :are you interested in a sununer position with Shearson-American Express? There are potential openings in local offices and New York City in sales, operati()ns or junior ad- ministrative work. Send your resume and cover letter to George Murray, Shearson- American Express, 7. Villaaze Square, Westport, CT 068880. If you are interested in working in the C'areer .Development Center . as a Career Assistant for the 1984-«) school year, please return completed ·applications to the Center by April 16. Two reconunendations are due by A,prll 23. Applicatiorts and recommendation forms are available in the CDC arid in the· Student Activities Office. If you missed sign-ups for the Alumni Career Observation Days, you will have another opportunity to spend time \on- .the-job'' with a local professional. On Thursday, May 3, members ,of the Schenectady Rotary Club will host students at their work places for a half- day, followed by a luncheon. Sign-ups will be held in the CDC. on Wednesday, AprU 25, from 8 :.30-5:'00 p.m. Students of all· majors and class years are encouraged to take advantage of this program. · CLUB NEWS ... . ' The New Union College · Debate Organization, the Phllomatheans, ls looking for interested, enthusiastic members. Anyone interested should call either Ben Haftel at Mark This Date On Your Calendar: FRIDAY/ MAY 18 Senior Fling Committee, Hosts ':4 TOUCH OF CLASS'' A Formal of the GideonPiltnam : .... , .. ·· More Detail;s Will Follow! Navy Gold:_ Forged in ·a Tradition of Excellence· Because the Officers wearing it are the best ip the world at what they do ... they have to be It takes a special breed of aviator to meet the challenges of N,aval Aviation. Strong. dedicated and professional men who can control the world's most sophisticated aircraft .. There!s no room ove( the oceans for pilots that are second-best . Beneath the surface pulses a unique environment few will · ever challenge. Only an uncompromised standard of excellence . ear·ns a submariner his dolphins. The Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officers wear them. To find oyt if you're qualified. see the Navy Represen- tative that will be in the Campus Center on April 19; or call collect (518) 472·4424 Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.

.CONCORDIENSIS, April U, 1984 Page 13 CAMPUS NEWS 370-6489 or Marc Arkovitz at 370- 6705. A new Wrestling Team Club is in the organizing stage. Interested Grapplers should contact Waseem Khan at 365 :Fox, 370-6705 or Louis Hughes at DU, 382-9272. HELP ,WANTED Positions at Grafton Lakes State Park, P.O. Box 163, Grafton, New York 12082. Seasonal Employment-salary will be $3.40 Per Hour. Starting time will be late May to Labor Day. Three Positions on Maintenance. . Applications available in tlie personnel Dept., Silliman Hali. ReUef Station Needed in a supervi~;~ed com·munity residence for adults in the Mental Health System. Must be available through the summer and be willing to work weekends and overnights. Mature, flexible, .caring people need only apply. Experience preferred, but not necessary. Call Mary or Karen at 372-3934, Monday•Friday. Union Coile·ge's Academic Opportunity Program (AQP) needs 3 peer tutor counselors .for its 1984 Summer Program from June 29 to August 11. Applications are now availa.ble and interviews are bemg arranged in the AOP Office. For more information contact Patrice Burwell at 370-6115. Application deadline: April 16, 1984. Football, Hockey, Soccer players, etc. wanted by .local ·photographer for male f1gure studies. Sotne nude work required. $20.00 per hour. Must be 13-24 years, 6 feet or more and at least 195 lbs. Photo or detailed description and phone to.: Bo.x 2169 ESP Station Albany, New York 12220. CLASS!FJEDS Travel to Rome, Athens, Lisbon, London, Paris, Frank- furt, etc. .from only $99 each way. Call· now or send .for your FREE broch11re. Operators always on duty. .Enclose one dollar for postage and handling. Europe Express, Inc. 3460 M;ain St., Hartford, CT 06120 (203) 522- 6580. ' Safe Place is a support group for families and friends Qf suicide victims. · Suicide \survivors\ are often Thia Summer At Cornell University you can enjoy a remarkable variety of courses and learning qpportuniti.es. In a setting of • beautiful ·lakes, parks, ravines, and waterfalls, you can fulfill requirements, accelerate your degree program,. or simply take the courses that you've always put off. Ithaca, a small cosmopolitan city, is located in a magnificent, varied countryside that offers you .water sports and ball games, climbing and camping, theater and. outdoor concerts, soaring and biking, birding and hiking ... Call or write to se.e for yourself why Cornell is the place you should be this summer. Cornell University Summer Session 812 lves Hall-Box 65 Ithaca. New York 14853 607/256-4987 devastated b'y this cruelest of all deaths.. Twice a month people who have · experienced this doubly tragic death to a loved (>ne meet to s.hare cir• cumstances, emotions, ex- periences. information and support. Meeting tbis month will be held ·on Tuesday, April 24th at 7:30 p.m. at 727 Madison Avenue, Albany (The Friends Meeting House.) For more information call 482-0799. 'J'Yping-Papers typed with professional results by executive secretary. Fast service and . accurate proofreading at $1 ,per page. Call Judy 399-3383. Typing done for students. Please contact 346-5104 Niskayuna· area· Please contact 355-3239 Knows medical terminology Please contact 377-4215 Scotia area. 1983 Subaru . Brat w-cap. Excellent Condition. Asking $6800.00. Call after 6 p.m. 37().. 3398. Found: One small young male cat. He is orange and striped (like Morris). If you lost him, or if you want him, please call 37().. 6730 and ask for Jackie or Chitra. its 1984 season in New England on July 21st. The NGSW is a series of one-week long in· tensive guitar workshops.. An outstanding faculty of .professional performers-tea· chers will conduct courses in Rock, . Classical, Ja:t.:z, Bluegrass, Folk-Blues (fingerpicking) and Bass. For more infonnation con· tact: Mr. David Smolover, Director, NGSW, Dept. C, Box 222, Lakeside, Connecticut, 06758, or call 203-567-3529. C.I.S. 1..800-462-6204 Citizen Information Service Status of Legislative Concerns in NYS Mon-Fri: 10-4 League of Women Voters of New York State FOUND: A male orange cat with a white flea collar. Please . call 382-9227. The Film Committee Presents: Here Comes Mr. Jordan- rues. AprU 17 at 7, 9, and 11. Admission is Free~ Attack of the Killer Tomatoes-Wednesday, April18 The National Guitar Summer at7, 9 and 11. Admission is $1.00. Workshop (NGSW) will begin Never Say Never AJ(ain- .tf''\''''\\'~::::::.~t-:>m.::::~: · · ·.· :r l\liAI~ ~~~Ar·l~\~ \\\' \eJeeO~rfi;MPOR I U M ~~ i . FREE ~~ I 32 oz. SODA I I ~:::;d::~:~:~~::: I ~ IPffer Good thru September 30) ., .. ~ .i)~Asg~~~giEE ~ \\~ ~0.~::::~~~::.~~· I Phone: 374-4332 .~: ~~1: - . ':o'!·:·:::~:~:::-:<::::~~~~.':!l~~=:=\«-\='!:::~::::::..-:::::::::::»->::::;~-t-:'!::'5-::::::::x:::::::::::'f.:'$:!:~-::.~:\«);\.:::?::::*:::.;.::::-:.:.::~::~:::t::~:=~'!!:>;:~ \The Most Exciting New Bar in Downtown Schenectady'' Happy Hour Everyday 4-7 p.m. Free Hors D'oeuvres Redeem for: 1 Free Cocktail per person per night with Student I D Mt4NHf\1tttN ~··~ ~·IH~~·~··~ 605 Union Street \ weekend of April 13 through April 15 at 7:30 and 10. Admission is $1.00. PERSONALS Marge--Happy 22nd! Love your housemates at 700. To Anonymous: If you think the women at Union College are men-you haven't met the right women! Kim and George, Congratulations! Best of Luck! We're so happy for you! Congratulations to all the new SDT officers! The Nikolas Reign of Terror is here! Ranski-\Why do men halt between two opinions, and expect impossibilities? Why do they expect virtue from a slave, from a being . whom the con- stitution of civil. society has rendered weak, if not vicious?\ Dammit, doesn't it feel good to be over those headstrong feelings!-Marg. Erica--Please except our condolences. We're with you every step of the way!-Bear . Congratulations to the new initiates of Delta Chi, Phi Sigma Kappa 1 and Theta Delta Chi. The sisters of Delta Gamma Dear Beth, It's great to have a roommate. who is a great pledge. Get psyched for the spring- Love your roommate and DG sister, Lynne To 1st Floor Richmond-After the 4th·Fire Drill, we've decided it would be easier for us if you just asked us to make your toast for you-A Perturbed Floor Frog--When does varsity wrestling start? Do me a favor and get a clue PLEASE!!! You really are slubow sometimes, but Hove you anyway. Love, the Ultimate Sex Goddess Breakfast Man, why don't you come eat with us? Wooey-so glad you're feeling better. Get psyched to· go off- the-earth SICK and have another spitting contest! When does the L.S.S. Therapy start? Farlde! Love, the Boot Destroyer Moses, the amazing, the ultimate, the woman. Your pillow smells gross! You Have to stop hanging out in sleazy hotels. SENIORS! Don't Forget to Vote April13 For Your Two Alumni Council Representatives '• ·.

Page J.l. Pack Your Bags and ·come To CONCORD/EN!,'/.\: Apri//2, 1984 . . . I ~ v ., 3 e April14th 8pm-3am Girting Center . Trip for Two Gruuul P• to the Bahamas TICKETS:$20 ·On Sale at DP and At the Student Activities Office. *All Ticket Stubs MUST Be in by 1 0:00 to be Eligible for Drawing·. · NOTE: Due to upward spiraling liability proble~s, no cars will be allowed to park at or near the Glrling Center. VAN TRANSPORATION TO AND FROM THE PARTY WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM CARNEGIE HALL ALL NIGHT. ,) - - - -- ·• ' ·I ne w wi to se de Cll Jc or GJ JE ai B< J~ K K, 31 sc - Jl c. OI SE T F tb al R 31 pi Sl aJ hi Sl c Sl ~-al J:J. e; cl g s ' ~

' CONCORDIENSIS, April 12, /984 Page 15 ----------~------------------------------~--~ --------------------------------------------~ / ..•• at Hamilton / Women Ruggers Debut Saturday ByUCWRFC Sports Staff This Saturday, April 14:, the newly formed Union College Women's Rugby Football Club Will travel to 'Hamilton College to play its first match ()f the season. The team consists of 21 dedicated women led by JuniQr captains Sarah Andrews and Joyce HaiTington. The seniors on the team are Donna Greenfield, Louise Fisher and Jeannine Vivona. The juniors are Allison Barry, Nancy Baum, Caroline Brandenstein, Janette Carron; Lisa Coppolo, Kate Doul)lass, Magan Lutzger, Kathy Magliato; Louisa Rooney and Judi'e Steinhardt. The sophomores are Betsy Bout- well, Maureen O'Day and Chris Siler and the freshmen mem- bers are Gretchen Becker, Donna Gardiner and Kathy Hawke. The team .is being coached by Dr. Dave Benziger, a member of a local Rugby Football Club. The UCWRFC can be seen practicing every day on West B.each beginning at 3:30 p.m. except Friday when we in- crease our intake o.f car- bohydrates over at \Slap$hots\ for Skellar Practice'! The Women's Rugby Football Club would like to especially thank the Men's Rugby Club for their support and guidance in helping us to get started this term. Get Psyched!!! Intramural - spot )jte ByG.W. Sports Staff Theta Delta Chi's Curling team is the recipient of this week's Intramural Spotlite Award. TDChi's team, cap- tained by Steve Wing, entered the playoffs with only one loss coming from Kappa Sigma. The - league showed its com- petitiveness with no team remaining undefeated. TDChi defeated The Whalers in the championship ~7 to take the title. Other team members included Dan O'Neill, Scott Adams, Dave Greenway, John Moretti, and Cliff Wollaston. Congratulations for a fine season. SPO Sports Talk With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff The fall brought us .two nationally recognized teams and who wollld have ever guessed that the Skating Dut- clunen wouldplay on into spring break. One has to wonder what the upcoming spring has to offer. Well the spring has already offered a week without Sports Talk and:b.ere's my first installment for all those still on the edge of their seats. right field against the Danes. Though Wood has been recognized in the Past by a number of ·major leag,ue organizations, one has to think that Wood's e1q>loits would have been better showcased at another school. Don't get me wrong, I don't mean an AriZona State or Miami but look at such small school teams as Amherst College. Amherst College is respected as one of our nation's top academic institutions and has an enrollment of 1,800 which puts the Lord Jeffs in the NCAA Div. III. Like Union, Amherst has proven itself as a small Women's Lacrosse . .• Continued from page 16 oriented game. Leading the offense are seniors Cay Lynch and Jackie Tario. Sophomore Bonnie Faulkner is .also a great scoring threat. Strong offensive play is also to be expected of Lorna Rushfort)l, .Rebecca Clemente, and Cheryl Washburn. This unit plays well together and is successful at working the ball around and toward the goal. Athlete of Sad But True: Over spring break former Detroit Tiger pitcher and Cy Young Award winner Denny McClain was indicted on charges of racketeering, loansharking, bookmaking,. eKtortion and various drug cllarges. As most baseball fans know this is not the first time that the former T·iger ace has come in conflict with the law. While McClain was a yoWlg impressionable flame thrower pro sports took its worst toll as he quickly came in contact with bad company .. ThiS bad company led· McClain down the road of ill repute that he has never been able to get off. As great as w.e make pro sports out to be,. we must also realize that it is merely . a micro.cosrn of our everyday society. It's the responsibility of ownership and management to watch out for the young Denny McClains of the world. Possibly if some owner, general manager or coach took some interest in Denny McClain as a person, when he broke onto the scene of stardom, he would not find himself answering to such charges as extortion, racketeering and drugs today. ' college power in basketball, hockey, football and soccer. They also have had a tradition of fielding a pretty darn good baseball team. The small New England liberal arts college has placed a number of recent graduates into the ranks of pro baseball. One has to wonder why Union has let its baseball program slip to . where it is today. Hopefully for tt1e future Joe Wood's baseball will be brought back in Schenectady along the same lines as hockey and football. the we-ek Senior Roberta Stein is the backbone of the team's defense. She is joined by jWliors Sally Carey and Carolyn Gilbert, sophomore Julie Fitzsiplmons, ~ and Freshman~ Elaine Pick. Monica Lobel continues her excellent performance in goal. By DREWS. HURLEY Sports Staff Congratulations to junior pitcher Nat Harris who has led the Garnet nine to a 2.0 start and })as gone the distance in his first two outings. In Dutchmen wins over RPI and Albany State; Harris has given up eleven hits, has struck out eleven and walked only seven. He has given up only four earned runs and his ERA is an impressive 2.00. Nat is a two-year varsity letterwinner With a record of 5--3 going into the season. Last season he was the Dutchmen's top hurler with 36 strikeouts, a 3-1 record, and a 2.68 earned runs average. The 5'10\ 180 pound history major is from Hebron, Maine where he attended Hebron Academy. Nat is a Phi Gamma . Delta brother. Congratulations to Nat and good luck Dutchmen baseball. Come cheer for the Dut- chwomen at their next home game against Castleton, Saturday at 1:00 PM. [ SUPPORT UNION SPORTS Stone Boaters_ Triumphant Guess What?: Anyone who has picked up a campus newspaper or local sports page wotild know that Senior Joe Wood enjoyed a fine career as a ByUCSBC Sports Staff The Stone Boat Club captured overall first place honors at the annual West Point Stone Boat Race on Sunday. Skillfully managing the choppy waters of the Hudson River, Union took first place victories in three of the four events. First place finishes went to Jim Griggs and Chuck Farrell in the men's race, Jeff Doolittle and Roberta Stein in mixed doubles, and Shamir Pasha and Tom Webb in the faculty race. Third place in the women's race was gained by Roberta Stein and Patty Win- ters. Seven schools were represented at the· race. Deiegations of boats and crews were sent from West Point, Colu..m.bia, NJIT, CCNY, Hudson Valley, Nassau Com· munity College and Union. The teams experienced varying degrees of success. The West Point craft sustained a puncture wound and sank before the races began. Some boats were not designed to withstand the rough water. Said a delegate from City College of New York, Attention Democrats! There will be a general meeting of the Union College Young Democrats Thursday, Apri/19, 1984 Strauss Lounge • 7:00p.m. -Agenda- 1. Voting for Secretary--voting position on executive board 2. Voting for general voting position on executive board · New Menlhers Welcome Support Senior Fling! Guess How Many Jelly Beans Are In The Jar? \Our boat filled with water in basketball player for Bill the first race, and it's down Scanlon's Dutclunen. As good a there somewhere. We can't basketball player as Joe Wood seem to find it yet.\ is, amazingly enough he is an The next adventure for the even better baseball player. Joe Stone Boaters will take place on has enjoyed three fine seasons Saturday, April 28, when the as a Dutchman and if last clubs .from Union and Hudson Monday's rout of Albany State Valley will jointly sponsor a is any indication Wood is well on race at Taghkanic State Park his way to enjoying a banner near Hu~on, New York. All seniorcampaign. TheHerkimer stone boat fans and those new to native ripped a grand slam and the sport are encouraged to made a nwnber of putouts in pack a picnic lunch, spend the day at a beautiful park,. and much the same as the first. cheer Union Stone Boaters on to Again the Union serum and line another victory. dominated, but Williams' -------..---~----__.· kicking held· them: off. There was one other play in which the Garnet nearly had a tty to tie the score. After the home pack won a serum-down, the · line moved it out to winger Ira Suck- man who nearly put it in for a goal. However the ball was, placed out of th.e and ' Men's Rugby • .• Continued from page 16 an opening-day loss by a score of 20-7. The second game was a different 13tory. Although the Union squad was made up of many inexperienced player&, the team played quite well. Led by the experience of Steve Testo in the serum and Andy Klwnpp on the line, the Garnet held a strong Williams team to four points. Opening Day: Albany's Eastern League entry, the A's, will fly into LaGuardia today and weather permitting will work out at Heritage Park this afternoon. Heritage Park was opened while we were on vacation last summer and truly is one of the nicest facilities in minor league sports. The A's are affiliated with the Oakland Athletics and open up their Eastern League campaign on Saturday against the Buffalo Bisons. It is also recently an- nounced that Albany (really Colonie, as the field is located off Wolf Rd.) will play host to the 1984 Eastern League All- Star game. · Down the Pike: Former Union College goalie Steve Baker will be between the pipes tonight as the Maine Mariners play host to the Adirondack Red Wings in game four of their best of seven series. Who know,s maybe we'll be talking about the pro career of current S~ating Dutchman netminder Wayne McDougall a few years from now. If he matures over his next two seasons the possibilities are numerous. Williams was able to boot it out. Nedless to say, the B squad dropped a tough game by a 4-0 margin. With these tough losses behind it, the Union RFC traveled to Albany State Wednesday to avenge its losses. Saturday the Club will journey to Hamilton where it looks to further improve its record. ,, Play went back and forth over the field in the first half as the horne team ran amuck only to be held off by .strong defensive kicking. Yet, Williams was able to penetrate the Garnet defense once through its kicking to put itself in for a try deep in the corner of the try zone. The conversion missed and the B squad was down by four. Union did come especially close on one occasion, but the . ball•handler failed to put the ball down and the score was not accepted. ) 'A ·\' Look for us in Carnegie! .. Tlw second half was very Strum half Steve Patterson passes the balr to fly half John Wilbur during Union's 20-7 loss to Williams Saturday.

.... rtJ fl. >- .0 0 .... 0 .s:: c. Pagel6 CONCORDII::N.~'JS. April 12,1984 . . Baseball Opens With Twin Victories ByTWC'S Sports Staff The Union College Baseball Team is ready to rebourtd from last years' 5-11-1 record which .featured six 'tough one run losses. Second year head-coach John Audino and returning assistant coachShaun Teevens are looking forward to a competitive year with ten ballplayers returning from the '83 campaign. The Dutchmen opened the '84 season on a good note as they beat the Engineer's of RPI by a score of 17-1. Junior hurler Nat Harris breezed his way to his first win by allowing just 1 run on six: hits, · Union broke the game open with a six run 5th inning on a bases loaded three run triple by Captain Joe Wood .. The 21 hit barrage was led by Captain Tim · AHbozek with four ·bits (3 RBI's), Reinhardt Walker (.2 RBI's), John Morretti (4 RBl's), and Joe Wood ( 4 RBI's) each had three hits and Alex: Rita, Pete Cohan and Gerry Campinelli each chipped in with two. The steady play at shortstQp by Freshman Andy Markopolis, · in his first game as a Dut- chman, and strong all around outfield play .helped Bards keep the RPI bats at bay_. ..• UnJon Bats Boom again ... Union College, led by strong 'Pitching from Nat Harris, and an intense team hitting per· fonnance, stonned past Albany -State Monday, 1s:-6. Harris went the distance for his second straight victory, yielding only sbt runs ( 3 ear- ned), on five hits, three walks~ and four strikeouts. The team put on an im- pressive . hitting display featuring five homeruns. Rita, Cohan, and Dan Connelly were responsible for three homeruns, while Reinhardt Walker and Joe Wood provided the big blasts with grand slams. John Morretti played an outstanding defensive game behind the plate for the Dut- chmen; gunning down three rl.lililers. . Coach Audino, im- pressed with the powerhouse .he has created, commented after the last game, \We are very hot!\ The Dutchmen will defend their unbeaten mark against Div. I Siena Wednesday night, and host Hartwick Thursday, and Clarkson on Saturday . Baseball Men's Lacrosse Golf Rugby Aprill2 Hartwick 3:00 April 14 Clarkson .(2) 1'2:00 . Aprill60ne.ont& (2) 1:00 Aprill8 at N. Adams 3:00 AprU 19 RP I 3:00 Apri:l 14 at Oneonta 2 ;00 Aprill8Miqdlebury 3:.0'0 April16atHamilton 1.:00 Aprill4 at HamJiton 1 :00 AprH 18 at Schenectady Reds 3:00 Women's Lacrosse .April14 Castleton l :00 April 16 at Russell Sage 3:30 Ap.ril18atWiHiams 3:'30 Softball April 12 at Albany 3:30 Apri.I14Skidmore 1 :00 Aprill7 WHliams 3:30 Men''s Track April15 at U. Mass Relays 9:00 ApriH-BatAibimy 3:00 Aprill4 at Albany lnvy 9:00 Women's \Track Men'sTennis April 13 Siena 3:00 April 19 at Skidmore 3:00 Women's Rugby .. April)4 at Hamilton -SCOREBOARD-·· BASEBALL (2:0) Union 17 RPil Union 18 Albany St.6 MEN'S LACROSSE (2-2) Albany 11 Union6 Geneseo 11 Uni0n 10 RUGBY (0-1) Williams 20 Union7 WOMEN'S LACROSSE (2-2) Union 12 Army a Rochester 9 Union4 Wells9 Union7 Union 8 Skidmore 7 MEN'S TRACK (1-l) Union 77 Norwich 31 RPI87 Union 77 Dutchmen defenders (L to RJ Mark Leyten, Tod.d Johnson and John Drake battle Geneseo. Union lost 11-10 in 2 OT. 1-1 Start For Harriers Laxmen Lose Two ByG.M. Sports Staff After a strong start, the Men's Lacrosse team finished their first week of the season by losing two games to Albany State and Geneseo State respectively. They now stand at 2-2. Last Thursday, the team traveled to Albany State to face their cross t()wn rivals in ex- tremely inclement weather. Union was able to take control early in the game leading 3-1 on goals by linemates Chris Davis and Andy Ross, and another score by yollng Will Piersol. Piersol continues to do well fS he leads the Dutchmen in scoring. The Great Danes rallied back to tie Union 3-3 at half-time. The team seemed discouraged and their play showed it as the second-half of play was controlled by Albany. In the second half,. Will Piersol, Andy Larkin, and Tim Clorite were able to score, but this was not enough as Albany State scored eight times in the second stanza to win 11 ~. Saturday's home contest against Geneseo State lasted three overtime periods before Geneseo won in sudden death 11-10. Despite the loss, the Dutchmen played well lead by junior midfielders Tim Clorite and George Murray, who each scored two goals. The games momentum continuQusly changed hands as Union lead 6-5 only to fall behind 8-6. Again, the Dutchmen fought back to tie the score. The Lax:men again fell behind 1()..8 with only five minutes left to play but managed to knot the score at ten at the end of regUlation play. Both squads entered into overtime with ten goals and it would remain that way for two complete overtime periods. Each team had opportunities to score, but fine goaltending at both ends of the field forced the game into a third overtime. With 1:33 left in the third OT, Geneseo was able to slip the ball past Sophomore netminder Rob Crispi for the win. By DAVE MARIN Sports Staff In less than favorable weather conditions, the Union track team placed second of three in last Saturday's home meet against ,RPI and Norwich. Scott Remillard and Winston Britton were the top scorers with Britton taking first in both the 100 and 200 meter dashes with times of 10.9 and 22.5; respectively. Remillard placed second in the shot put ( 41 feet 11 inches) and the hammer (160 feet 1% inches), and first in the discus. His hammer and discus throws both set new school records and both qualified him for Nationals. His discus throw also qualified him for the IC4A's (Intercollegiate Amateur Athletic Association of America). Other first place finishers were Bob Bertagna for his 42 foot 8 inch triple jump {he also placed second in the long jump), Bruce Witherspoon in the high jump {6 feet 6 inches), and Gary Wenner for the pole vault. The mile relay team of Staaland, Gist, Mohlar, and Britton also placed first with a time of 3:29.9~ Rob Mohlar also made a significant showing in Rugby Drops Opener To Williams ByVCRFC Sports Staff With playing conditions on Library Field What they were . Saturday, the Garnet ruggers opened their season with disappointing losses against a tough Williams squad. Though the Union serum dominated in the first game, the muddy pitch held the fleetfooted backs ineffective. The first half of the A game was marked by tight serum play, and this is where Union was able to maintain control. Early on the home team pushed the ball deep into Williams territory. Taking advantage of a costly infraction Gamet's Meade Suiiimers split the uprights with a penaltyakick- for-goal and Union was up by three. Soon after, the home scrmn again pushed the ball back into Williams territory. After a serum-down on the five- meter mark, co-captain Doug Baumgarten broke from the pack, ditched off to Steve Patterson and Union had its first try of the season. The conversion missed but Union had an impressive 7-0 lead. However, the Union momentum going into halftime was lost as the teams carne back on the pitch aft~r the five-- minute break. The Garnet appeared flat while Williams was ready for their comeback. After playing ten minutes of good hard Rugby, Union faltered. Williams immediately took advantage of the situation. By moving the ball out of the serum and into loose play, Williams moved at will. Quickly the away ruggers scored to close the gap to four. Again after .sloppy play and penalties by the Union team, Williams moved in foranother score. The Garnet's lead was broken as Williams went up by a score of 8-7. Two further scores put the game . away for Williams and Union's first side had suffered Co:ntiilued on page 15 the 800 meter with a time of 1:59.7. Overall, Union claimed 26 individual places and first in the relay to score 10 behind RPI's 87 with 77 and ahead of Norwich's 31. Results from yesterday's men's and women's meets versus, Hamilton and Mid- dlebury will be published next Thursday. This weekend the men will travel to the UMass Relays irt Amherst. Senior trackster Gary Wenner con'lpeting in the 400 m hurdles. W.LaxWins ByC.G. Sports Staff The Women's Lacrosse team opened their season last Tuesday with a convincing 12-8 win over West Point. Despite inclement weather; the team was able to adjust to the rain, as well as the natural turf. Union's skills proved to be more of a winning factor than Army's endurance. Sophomore Bonnie Faulkner lead the scoring with five goals. The Laxwomen displayed the mental · deter- mination necessary for a winning season; as they were able to overcome an Army scoring surge by coming back with five unanswered goals. The. J.V. team also played a fine game, and although a young and inexperienced team, they show a lot of promise. This· year's varsity squad shows a lot · of potential. The team has a lot of unity, both on and off the field, which should prove to be a great asset. There are many talented players returning this season who have, thus far, .proven that they are able to display their talents while still playing a team Co~tinued on page 15 ro s:: ,_ 0 ::L. U'l ::L. s:: ro ,_ u. > ..c 0 - 0 .s= 0. ~ .. 1/) rtJ :;: n. E ... 0 z >- .0 0 0 - - :t: ' c. .. 1 ' o-r ,p::r· .e\V at VWt \WI VWt in 'SE!I foll: a:JJ 'VWt h:u A ... In I Sal A..r trt Sl! e~ al! th A..r gE hliO A..t sa m th~ igJ inl c; I di! to th ('C) I e:x

ro 1:: .... 0 ~ J) ~ c ro .... .L > 0 0 .... 0 1:: c. ~ ... 1/J Ill :;:: a. E ... 0 z >- .0 0 0 :s: 0. :C)ClU, No. 20 Both Sides Presented • • • Class Schedule Proposed By PETER MOHR Staff Professor Ah:m l\lelson of th~ t:nglish department debates the CUE's plan of a split winter term. Last spring; the Committee on Union Educatiqn . (CUE) began to develop several plans which Were concerned with changing Union's academic schedule. CUE members . in- clude Vice President for Academic Affairs, Thomas D; Andrea, Associate. Dean of Und.ergraduat.e Studies, William Daniels, and Professors Edward Craig of electrical engineering, Daniel · Bambara Speaks at Union · . · At the evening reading in the :By DAVE MARIN dis~es. or whatev~r. If thin_gs Hale House· Lower Lounge, Ms. Staff spml m ,~he . refngerator, life Bambara brought life to her .Author and Community .()rganizer Toni Cade Bambara ]):resented an. afternoon talk and e\'Veningreadingfrom her works at her visit to Union last \We(fnesday, AprilU. Her visit ~Was: p11tt ~of the College's ~omen's Week 1984 program. At the afternoon session, held in the Humanities Building sec()nd floor lounge at 3:30 p.m., l'lls. Eambara spoke on \Forms· a:nd Themes in Current '\Vomen's Writing in the U.S.,\ ln1t predominately discussed A..fro-American and multicultural literature. She satpports the view that Afro- A..rnerican literature is the only tr:'uly American literature and stressed the importance of its e.-Jntributions to writing. She also mentioned the difficulty that these newer Afro- A..merican writers have in I{Etting their works published. Slle spent most of the hour, hii()WEver, answering questions. A..bn.lt. writers themselves, she s~icl that everyone needs space a.Jd time of his or her own and that writers have the right to ign()re other things. ''It's more itnp()rtant to writethan to do the goes on, . satd Ms. Bambara. short stories. She read from her She ~entioned that even the collection entitled Gerilla, My materials use~, such ~ pens Love. These stories are mostly and paper l are lffiP~~ant m how told from. the perspective of a one feels about wntmg. Black City child and explQrer. As for her own ~cltground, Her readings made the stories Ms. Bambara de~crtbedhe~self . roor.e. _ comprehensible and as. a co~umty-\ or~amz-er, helped to bridge the language agttator, cr1er,. and basiCally a gap between her character and trouble maker.\ She has been the audience. She also read active in generating public from her novel The Salt Eaters ~ct~vi~y where the rights of and her upcoming book on the tndtvtduals or groups are Atlanta murders. Ms. Bambara violated. is also the author of · the Sea Ms. :Sambara is presently writing a .factual book about the missing and murdered children, of Atlanta, Georgia. She said that she is going to challenge the \official view of things\ and hopes to \prevent amnesia\ on the part of the public in regards to this terrible crime. As to Afro-American literature, she would like to see it more widely read as she feels that Black people are affecting the way people live and view things. As Blacks enter daily life in new arenas such as sports, political office, and writing, the way Americans traditionally view things will have to be amended. Birds are Still Alive, Tales and Short Stories for Black FoJk, and The Black Woman. Her evening reading was followed by a reception in Milano· Lounge. c'L .... · '' · ass Discussed :By MIKE.KNOPF Staff health field, graduating from Boston University and ob- taining her Master's pegr~e in soci()logyfrom the Untverstty .of Rhode Island. Desiring to seek answers to personal questions, Dr: Corless obtained her Doctorate from Brown University. Robbins of arts, James Underwood of political science, Thomas Werner of chemistry, and Brenda Wineapple of English. In addition, Professor Alan Nelson of English was a member of the committee. Nelson had served as the Dean of Undergraduate Studies before he took his sabbatical for the current academic year. Nelson mentions that the cominittee's purpose is \to give its attention to some curricular matters which the AAC couldn't be expected to so easily because they were so bound up with routine things.'' CUE Proposal One of the proposals recommended by the CUE centered on the idea of a split winter term. This plan, which was examined by the campus community earlier in the year, apparently never achieved widespread popularity. Recently, CUE released another plan wbich presents an alternaUve .. to the cnrrent acadelllic schedule. Under the new proposal, all classes would meet according to one of two possible patterns: Monday, Wednesday, and Friday or Tuesday and Thursday. This schedule would contain five class periods during the former pattern and three during the latter. Sessions meeting on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday ·would last one hour and five minutes. The periods would \ -~~. be as follows: 9:(1()-10:05, 10:15- 11:20, 11:30-12:35,2:00..3:05, and 3:15-4:20. Tuesday and Th1,1rsday sections would meet for one hour and forty minutes. These classes would be scheduled in the· following manner: 9;00- 10:40, 12:50-2:30, and 2:40-4:~0. Currentiy, nearly all classes meet for 200 minutes each week, except for labs. Under the new plan, classes assembling during the former schedule would last for 195 minutes each week. Tuesday and Thursday sessions would meet for 200 minutes. The proposal also indicates that classes which currently meet for 250 minutes, such as Math 10, would assemble for an additional 20 minutes per session under the schedule beginning on Monday. Sections would begin at 8:40 (instead of 9:0Q),andl:40 (insteadof2:00). ln addition, the 12:35 session would be extended to 12:55. Nelson mentions that the recommended plan resembles the schedule used at Dart .. mouth. ·Its prograiD, however, iS slightly more complex, in· volving special times for examinations. If put into effect, the proposal would resolve several problems ·inherent in the current schedule. Because classes would meet every other day, CUE members believe that students would be allowed more time to absorb course material. It's hoped that this extra time Continued on page 3 , For many, the death of a friend or relative is a difficult time. Also, the manner in which tile loss is handled varies with e~cb individual. Death and oltherlosses were the subjects of a. talk led by the Program Director of St. Peter's Hospice, Dr. IngeCorless. The discussion took: place on April 1~ in the fouMh floor lotmge of Carnegie u part of last weeks ongoing \ilornen's Week activities. ExpresElon Of Views In addition to her formal education, Dr. Corless has received special traini!lg in the field of \death and dymg\ and bas worked with terminally ill patients at Memo~ial ~ospital for Cancer and Allted Diseases in 'New York. Dr. Corless is activeiy involved in the New York State Hospice Association,. serving on its board of directors and is a member of the Research and Education Committee of the National The ThOmpson Twins, sponsored bY the Union College (:oncert (:ommittee, drew a crowd of 1,100 last Thursday hight at Proctor's. Dr. Corless led an informal disc-11ssion, opening up the floor tnallow the students to express their views and experiences l'CJnceming loss. IDr. Corless possesses an e~ensive background in the Hospice Asso~iation. . The diSCUSSIOn began With Dr. Continued on page Z

</) <1.'1 01 .c: u (l) c .r: c. \' a >- .0 2 0 .r: c. CONCORDIENSIS, April 19. 1984 Many Issues Considered •••• . U •. .n1on Trustees Meet Student Trustee Melissa. Viglielmo talks about recenl Board of Trustees meeting at Union. By LINDA RAFFAELE Staff The latest Board of Trustees meeting was Qeld on April12-13. According to Student Trustee Melissa Viglielmo, the first order of business was the discussion .of the proposed College Center. President John Morris will definitely. decide upon an architect by the next meeting. The date for the project to start depends on flinding. Corless_ Speaks on Death Continued .from page 1 Corless remarking that in our society there is not much \preparation for loss\ and asked the students to comment on this. Most agreed that death is a \taboo subject,\ one that ''makes· people feel un- comfortable.\ One topic of discussion revolved around expressing sympathy when. someone else experienres the loss of a friend or relative. Most admitted feeling uncomfortable in this situatiDn, wanting to help but finding it difficult to express their thoughts. Dr. Corless soliticed the response of one student who had experienced the loss of a parent, asking her what she would have liked to hear from others. The student responded that there were no magk words to make her ·feel better; but one shoUld \let the person know that you are there\' and available for support. Moving· away from the sub- ject of death, Dr. Corless asked the students if they could think of other types of losses. She questioned whether Dne could distinguish between a \major'' loss and a \minor\ one. Many ofthe students cited the d~athof someone close and tne loss Df friends as major losse~. others argued that any loss in which sentimental value was involved could be • classified as a major loss. Most agreed that \loss is relative\ and depends on the degree that the loss had for the individual. All agreed that it is difficult to make assumptions as to the severity of any loss. One way in which loss relates to all of us is the chmge from high school to college and the resulting frustrations and disappointments. The transition is characterized by many ''positive and negative aspects.'' Old friends are left at home while new friends are made. One .student contrasted tbe loss of privacy 'in her college suite witlt the gain of. being with others. · · · · · · An interesting discussion occurred when Dr. Corless asked the students if they would rather die from a heart attack or from cancer. The choice involved a quick sudden death or a slow lingering one. The majority of the students chose a quick death, while a few others chose a slow death in order to· settle \unfinisbed business'' with the people in their lives. Loss is somethj:ng which teaches us aH, whether it be the death of a loved one or a defeat in an athletic contest. Dr. Corless, in her informative discussion, talked of the feelings which accompany loss and suggested some ways to cope with this emotion. A support group is being formed for anyone who has experienced the loss of a friend or relative, or would just like to talk with someone who bas·had · a similiar experience. Send your name and' number to Box 1953 or call Marcia at 370-6827. CIA Seeks Students (CPS) The Central 'Intelligence Agency (CIA) is making a new push to recruit college students this spring, according to reports from a number of campus and CIA sources, but not withoat some student protests and demon· strations against the agency's policies and operations. In recent interviews, CIA officials have said their campus visits nave been happy affairs that differed dramatically from the huge demonstrations they encountered a decade ago. Things got so bad then that many campuses asked the CIA not t() recruit on college grounds. A few camp,uses ac- tually banned agency recrtti.ting for a while. This is the first spring the agency has gone out of its way to publicize its recruiting ef· forts. The results haven't always been as peaceful as the CIA portrays. At the University of Tilinois recently, for instance, about 500 people attended a presentation by four CIA agents--two of them former lliinois student!r- touting the benefits of CIA life. The crowd, responding to three full-page ads in the Daily Tilinit was a combination of serious jol> applicants, c11riosity seekers and about 70 protestors; university officials report. Likewise, recent CIA recruitment seminars at protest movement Stanford, once a center of the student movement, drew over 12() career-oriented students aiong with 20 .protesters from the Stanford Central American Action Network (SCAAN:) And several weeks ago about a dozen students seized the career planning center at Wesleyan University to oppose on-campus CIA interviews being conducted there. Although dozens of students showed up to apply for the 16 interview slots the· CIA bad scheduled, the prc-otesters succeeded in turning away several student interviewees before school. officials issued . - . - - - warnings against pllysically blocking students from at-. tending the interviews. The CIA campus recruitment .drive is part of a new .effort to replace the last generation of CIA workers, many of whom are approaching retirement age, says CIA publicist DaJe Peterson. . The sizeable student Interest in CIA openings stems from a newfound sense of patriotism following American militazy exploits in Beirut and Gr.enada, c()upled with a tight job market tbis spring, Peterson contends. · And despite some well- ()rganized protests, the CIA is labeling its campus talent search a success. \The recruiting effort has been highly successful so far,\ adds CIA spokeswoman Pat Volz, with the agency's headquarters in MacLean, Virginia. \We've had a fairly active early spring,\ .she says, and agency recruiters are con- tinuing to visit campuses nationwide ill search of students \interested in staying on\ with a career in the intelligence- gathering industry. \People's perception of the agency has changed in the last 10 years,\ Volz thinks, as \the entire world situation'' calls people's attention to tlle need for a strong intelligence net- work. But many campus protesters don't see it that way. \The vast majority of (the CIA's) resources .are going to support oth~r things (besides intelligence-gatheJ,'ing') which I don't see as legitimate at all,\ ·says Stanford graduate student Steve Babb, one of the 20 SCAAN members who demonstrated against the CIA's recent recruitment drive there. Babb and the other .protesters wanted their arguments against the·CIA heard so students would know about \some of. the very unsavory things that they have done and are currently doing\ in places like Nicaragua, he says. Wesleyan protesters, in ad- dition to blockading CIA in- terviews there, handed out over 200 flyers arguing the agency should not be given university office space to hold the in- terviews. And in one of the largest and best-organized anti-CIA demonstrations, University of illinois students took a similar complaint to Chancellor John Cribbet, who said he could not bar the recruiters from campus unless the CIA was proven to be an illegal organization. \Our chancellor is a law professor, and we'd hoped he'd be ·more attentive to our arguments,'' says Belden Fields, ·a political science in- structor and one of about -70 People's Alliance on Central America (PACA) members involved .in the CIA protest there. Protests and demonstrations aside, though, the CIA is happy with its. new campus recruit- ment drive, Volz says. Also discussed was .the renovation of the Alumni Gym. The gym's renovation com- mittee, headed by Vice Prestdent for Academic Affiars Thomas D'Andrea, came out with a forty page report on what might be inCluded in the gym. Approval was given for funding for· both the Alumni Gym and the College Center. lt is estimated that the total cost for tbe two will be between $10 and $12 million. The College is seeking financial assistance from the New York State Dormitory Authorities. In other areas~ faculty ap-. pointments. and retirements were approved by the Academic Affairs Council. The most important of these was the appointment of Professor Edward Craig of the electrical engineeri.Qg department as the new dean of engineering. There had been· no head ·of ·this departmi:mt ·prior ·to this ap- pointment. · · · Soeial Sciences Presentation The social sciences depart· ment made a special presen· tation · at the meeting. Economics Professor Dwight Phaap, Politi.cal Science Professor James Underwood, History Professor Robert ~ells, and Sociology Professor Terry Weiner each gave a presen- tation on what his respective department does . Arts Building Renovation Finally, the second phase of the Arts Building renovation was discussed. The work will begin in May, and is scheduled to end on September 7. Included in this second phase ·is the construction of a new photo lab •on the second floor where the mU&ic cubes are now. The music cubes will be moved out . to the cat' lab temporarily. There will also be a student forwn constructed to display student artwork. The most exciting part of· the· project; though, is the constrtiction of· a, two-story Performing ·Arts. Center .It Will' be built wliere the · dance studio is · now and will · extend out to the cat lab~ It will include a .skylight. The estimated cost for this second phase .of renovation is $408,000. The cost for Phase I was $260,000. Alumni Council Election Winners · Class·of.l984 June Glaser Susan Wilder 90votes 75votes 51.1% 42.6% 176 seniors voted, and each was permitted to vote for two (2) candidates. Yearboo eetint Thursday night at 8 p.rYJ. there will be an organizational meeting for anyone interested in working on the spring ·' supplement or next year's book at this time. Whitewater -Rafting Trip Exciting Whitewater action on the Upper Hudson River When: Wednesday, May 2, Day Trip NOEXPERIJINCE NECESSARY * If interested, please call L. Nelson at 382~ 8281 for details. Call immediately--we want to catch the water at its wildest! Sc At ByG~ On w Schenec Johnson Polities Strauss: was s Schenec1 was pre• Mayor speech Union's teams f4 this pas said J( nothing going t cheering Also she and the honotUr recent c• As to· mayor hi Before < day poli she gav women i .process, statistics point he1 that altl teringln1 andmOr4 women positions loadedw \I thiDl! to offeJ pretty g when tb:em.\ -Ma \more women,'' in that po to holdotl other we (women) inroads,'' \we have Them< vocate fo play inpo have a · They're officials them,\ ~ Through mayor t1 effective especiall~ getting el specifical As to MayorJo much to' felt trerr women\ of my cB older w< Mayor ~ quite a d1 mayor's ThE cur on• ShJ ren int4 up Act the Act 26t

CONCORDIENS/S,.Apri/19, 1984 Page] Schenectady Mayor Talks Ab . t w·· • · p· · · n·t· •. ··• on· ·. · · omentn • .·· o: · ·tcs By GAYLE ROSENFELD News Editor On Wednesday, April 11, Schenectady's Mayor Karen Johnson spoke on \Women in Polittes\ at 12:45 :t>.m. in Strauss Lounge. The short talk was sponsored ~Y the Schenectady Alumni Club and was preceded by a luncheon. Mayor .Johnson began her speech by congratulating Union's football and hockey teams for their performances this past year. \As mayor,\ said Johnson, ''there was nothing more exciting than going to the airport\ and cheering on the football team. Also soe noted how pleased she and the city council were to honor Union's hockey team at a recent council meeting. As. to wonwn in politics, the mayor had a few things to say. Before oQ5erving. the present;.· · day political realm, however, she g;lve a brief history of women in government. In the .process, she threw out some statistics on the subject. Her point here was to demonstrate that although women are en- tering into political offices more and more, there are still too few women holding political positions. School boards are loaded with women because it is \I think women have a lot to offer politics. They're pretty good public officials when we finally get them.\ -Mayor.Karen JoJ.ulson \more comfortable for women,\ said Mayor Johnson, in that political realm than. it is to hold other political offices. In other words, ''While we're (women) making some inroads,\ said Mayor Johnson, \we haven't made it yet.\ The mayor is quite an ad- vocate for the role women can play in politics. \I think :women have a lot to offer politics. They're pretty good public officials when we finally get them,\ said Mayor- Johnson~ Through this statement, · the . mayor tried to explain how effective women can be, especially in politics, but how getting elected is quite difficult, specifically for women. As to her own campaign, MayorJohnson again attributed much to the -role of women. \I felt tremendously that young women were really supportive of my candidacy,\ along with older women as well, said Mayor John.s.on. . They were quite a <hiving .force behind. the mayor's campaign and fmal victory. In regards to how men .feel about her as a female mayor, she is not bitter. \A lot of men who :don't know me are taking the p{)sition that they're not against me/' noted Mayor Johnstm., \but theyJre holding their judgement. That's okay.\ The mayor has come to accept this relationship, but she does have :Problems with it, at times. She rthen went on to list and expla:iil some disadvantages and a~vantages of being a female· mayor. As to the former, Mayor Jobnson .said, uit's not very ea11y to get party .support as a woman unless they think you're going to lose andthen it's very · easy.\ When she· first · decidedto.run, she believes that since ller party really' thought that sl:le was going to lose the election, the word was to con- tinue. Since the party did not foresee-'her ruiming as a threat, she received little attention. - On that vane, the mayor explained how difficult it was to run against her :own party, \You really have to find a mentor, if you can't get party support, who knows the ins and outs,\ said.~ayor Johnson. The system is difficult and without ' someone who knows how to work it, victory in an election can be virtually impossible. Thirdly~ she e:!q)lained the difficulty of ac_quiring earn· paign funds as a women. \I raised about $32,000 in my campaign,\ said the mayor. However, she attributed much of this to a cbamber of com- merce political action corn· mittee gift of $1,200 and to . repeat donations. \Media attention is hard for anyone to get,'r said Mayor Johnson, \but it is difficult\ if they d{) not think you will win. However, she did not allow this situation to dissuade her either. \The numbers were there,\ said the mayor. She was sure she could Win the mayoral election, but she had to develop and maintain the tools to do so. ·The last disadvantage she cited was that .of time. \It's particularly hard to find the time to run for office,\ noted Mayor Johnson. The campaign proved burdensome economically, as well as emotionally. Because she had to stop wol'king in· order to run for office, there was less money flowing into her home. Also, it was \a tremendous burden on my family,\ added the mayor. However, Mayor Johnson does n()t regret her decision to run and hold office. She genuinely believes . that \in general, the public trusts women.\ She feels support not only fr{)m the public sector, but The Committee on Committees is currently accepting applic::a.tions for one position on the Standing ot Students Committee for the· remainder of spring term only. All interested applicants should pick up applications at the Student Activities Booth and should return them to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activit·ies Office by Tuesday, April 26th. : also from all the volunteers in the community that aided her in her campaign. As a female mayor ·of such a large city, she has received qllite a bit of media attention along with much notice from the Cuomo adtninistration. She has also been appointed to many com- mittees and boards throughout the state. Overall~ Mayor Johnson stressed the importance of women in Schenectady. \Our conunJlllity would benefit if more women served in public oftice,\ said the mayor, but unfortunately the political door is still not completely open to them. Mayor of Schenectady Kc;tren Johnson lectures on \Women in Politics.\ Moth Professor Appointed By STEVE PIRAINO Staff Next.fall, there will be a new professor at Union in the mathematics department. This .position was made available last fall when Professor George Reynolds resigned after a three- year hiatus from the College. Reynolds, who was a professor at Union for seven years, went to the University of Massachusetts three years ago to study computers and ar- tificial intelligence. Since his resignation, Reynolds has worked as an independent computer consultant .in Amhet:~t, Ma~sachusetts. The., mathematics department received over 130 applications for Reynolqs' old position. Many of these applications were from graduate students, and several were from foreigners, including some from Singapore and West Germany. Eight Applicants Visit According to Mathematics Department 'Chairman Theodore Bick, \I attended a mathematics convention in Louisville, Kentucky, this winter and interviewed many candidates there.\ Of these applicants, Bick selected eight to visit Union. Among the eight were two women. All of the applicants were able to meet the members of Union's math department and gave talks on mathematics. Then, the members of the department voted on the ap- plicants. Dorothy Sherling was then selected to work here next fall. \Rave Reviews\ ·o.'- Bick stated, \Sher'ling is · sound mathematically, has great teaching credentials, and will fit right in here.\ Sherling received her B.S. from Auburn University in Auburn, Alabama in 1971 and her M.S. and her Ph.D. from the University of :Houston in Houston, Texas, in 1981. She worked as a geophysicist for the Texaco Corporation in Bellaire, Texas, from 1981 to 1983. During the past year, she has taught mathematics at Smith College, where, according to Bick, \she has received rave reviews.\ Bick added, ''Dorothy is a v.ery pleasant and attractive person and will be a valuable addition to the math department.\ She is also a tennis player and a runner, as are many members of the department. Next fall, Assistant Professor Sberling will join the thirteen full-time and two part-time professors at Union. She will be Union's third female professor in the mathematics department along with Assistant Professor Susan Niefield and Visiting Instructor Joyce Muckenfuss. In the fall, she is slated to teach Math 10 (calculus) and Math 41 (linear alg'ebra). In the future, she may teach a course in her special field of interest, topology. CUE Plan May Also Offer Some Problems Continued from page 1 would alleviate some of the pressure of the trimester system. The new plan would also eliminate the current \two- weekend\ week. Professor Craig believes that 9:00a.m. classes would be more popular than the current 8:30 sessions. Faculty with young children would perhaps have a less hectic morning rush. He mentions that more students would probably enroll in 9:00 a.m. classes as well. Free Time Slot Another a~vantage of the CUE proposal is its provision .for a free time slot, a feature not present in the existing schedule. Under the present system, students occasionally have conflicts between cou);ses and activities. It is not unusual for the faculty to meet at 4: 30 p.m., an unpopular time because of its position at the end of the day. Craig notes, \. . . one of the ideas of the weekly schedule was to block out at least one and one half hour or two hour period which would be free for scheduling meetings.'' Thi.s goal has been achieved on two days during the proposed schedule. Under this plan, there would be free time on Tuesday \One of the ideas of the weekly schedule was to block out at least one and one half hour or two hour periods which would be free for scheduling meetings.'' · -Professor Craig and Thursday between 10:40 a.m. and 12:50 p.m. This slot would be advantageous to student and faculty meetings as well as to scheduling guest speakers. The only classes which would meet during this time would be morning labs. The CUE plan may present problems to some departments, however. Foreign languages and mathematics are two areas which many regard as requiring constant drill and practice. Classes which meet every other day would certainly not permit this type of- in- struction. A summarized report of the CUE proposal has been sent to all faculty members. Depart- ment chairmen have received more detailed versions of the schedule as well. Craig expects that faculty members will be holding meetings to discuss the plan. \It would be nice to hear from the students, too,\ he adds. If it appears that the proposal is popular, the new schedule could probably be affected by an announcement from the administration Because of the studies and meetings which would be required, the new system would not be implemented before next winter term. Nelson mentions that, should the plan be ap- proved, the administration may not carry out the new schedule until the 1985-1986 academic year. Concordiensis welcomes opinions regarding the proposed CUE schedule change.. Please bring any letters to the Concordiensis office by 5 p .. ~. on ruesdays.

Page4' ·. CONCORD/ENS/$, Apri/19, 1984 Union Student ·Accosted • e • Hiring Policies Questioned By JULIE ABELMAN On Friday, March 16th, at approximately 4:30 in the momlng a female Union College student was accosted by a· naked man in the Arts Building. She was working on a project in the Arts Buildjng when this incident occurred. Fortunately, the woman was able to escape unharmed and managed to call Union Security. When they arrived at the the entrance stairs. The student positively identified him as the man who had approached her. Security let the man go and contacted the .Schenectady Policetbe.next day~ Hauser, ''the actual hiring and firing is done by the particuhu· department head.\ ·. Vice President for F·inance; John Hauser comments on Union's Arts Building, it found a fully hiring process. clothed man hiding underneath The man who is alleged to have accosted the · woman student is John King; a night· time maintenance employee of the College. King has worked at Union for two and a half years. However, he was dismissed permanently from College emploYJllent the day after the incident occurred. Vice President for Finance and Administration John Hauser stated that in firing King the College was ''not saying that there was definite conclusive legal proof'' of his gUilt. Hauser went on to say that \In terms of pure work performance, he was an excellent employee.\ King made it. through this screening process and was subsequently hired. because he did not · admit to having a criminal record'. On his ap- plication, \there was no in· dication of a previous arrest,\ stated- Hauser. Hauser also pointed out that the school does not, in general, check the validity of statements made on a job application. He explained that it-is not possible to obtain arrest record information · without the specific CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS authorization of the particular individual involved. New Hiring Policy Adopted The employment of King has made Hauser aware of what he calls ''a. weakness that had never been exposed before.\ In an attempt to get rid of this \weakness'' and as a result of the incident between King and the student, Union has adopted a new hiring -policy. This policy . became effective on Aprill and requires all physical plant employees to author.ize law enforcement agencies to notify Union of their arrest records. Siskind's Photos Exhibited Union's arts department is exhibiting photographs by Aaron Siskind in the temporary Kruesi Galleries of the Arts Building. The exhibit will be presented through May 16. Also on view in the Arts Building lobby are photographs from the portfolio of Edouard Boubat. The portfolio is part of Union's special collection, and is the most recent of four photography portfolios donated to the College by Edward A. Shapiro, Union class of 1962. Siskind's photographs, which were selected by Union's Assistant Professor of Jhotography, Martin Benjamin, constitute a mini-retrospective of the veteran photographer. Siskind has been hailed as one of the leading artists of our time. Siskind's life and works are documented in dozens of books and exhibition catalogs including: Siskind Photographs at the Egan Gallery, Aaron Siskind: Photographer, Aaron Siskind: Places, and Aaron Siskind: Pleasures and Terrors. Siskind taught photography for 20 years at the Institute of Design in Chicago, and until 1976 at the Rhode Island School gf Design. He has been Bingham Distinguished Professor of Humanities at the University of Louisville and a distinguished lecturer in photography at the Carpenter Center at Harvard University. He is in Schenectady as the Jaffe Artist-in-Residence at Union Boubat stud•ied printing, design, and topography at Ecole Estienne, Paris, from 1938 to 1942 and worked as a photogravure printer in Paris from 1942 until 1945. \Women's Art at Union'' Chisholm to Lecture Roderick Chisholm, professor of phHosophy at Br()wn University, was-the first of four guest speakers this spring in Union's :Philosophy Depart· ment's colloquia. Chisholm discussed \Some Ancient Puzzles About Parts and. Wholes\ on Wednesday, April 11 at 4 p.m. in the College's Humanities Building, room 213. _ On Tuesday, April 24 at 8 p~m., Burton Leiser, professor Union's Women's Network of philosophy at Pace and the Arts Department is University, will discuss sponsoring an exhibition \Journalism and Common entitled ''Women's Art at Decency: The Limits of Union\ from AprU 9 until May - Reportorial Freedom.\ 16 in the lobby outside the Carol Ochs, professor of temporary Kruesi Galleries in philosophy at Simmons College, the Arts Department. . . will speak on \A. ~dder Ac~oss The show is being held in the Ages: A Feminist Theology conjunction with Women's For The Nuclear Age,\ on Week activities at Union, :which Friday, AprU 27, at 3:30 p.m. ran from April 9 to the 14th. Jonathan Bennet, professor of The eXhibition is comprised of philosophy at Syracuse photographs, drawings, University, will conclude the paintings, and prints executed colloquia on Friday, May 18 through the fall and winter at 3:30p.m. with a discussion on tenns by Union women artists. ·~spinoza, Error, and The exhibit includes art works Ignorance.\ by Jill Bleifer, Jean Bradley, All four lectures will be held Jodi Cohen, Unda Fischer, ill Union's Humanities Building Marie Guariniello, Sharon in room 213. Gmelch, Shawne McCord, Colloquia are open to the Susan Mettler, Beth Stinson, public. and Tina Tryforos. The public is invited to attend. Furthe-r investigation into King's background has revealed that he is a convicted rapist on parole. Hauser st~ted that the school was not aware of this fact when King was hired, and did not learn about King's ~criminal record until the end of March. Both Security's records and the student's statement about the incident have been sub- poenaed. King]s now being held in the Albany County Jail. The fact that a convicted rapist was hired by Union to work from 12 a.m. to8 a.m., five nights a week, with access to any building on campus has led- to a re-evaluation of the hiring policies at Union. For non-academic em- ployment, the personnel office assists department he~ds in recruiting, screening, and testing applicants. According to H~user eX}'.)lained that this new policy will only affect physical plant employees. Applicants for other non- academic jobs at Union will not be subject to this kind of a check. He stated that this is due to the fact that the \physical plant has access · to various . areas of the campus on-- weekends and nights and we just felt it was something that needed to be done.\ 12th Annual Student PHONATHON Apri I 30th · May 3rcf 5:30-9:30 p.m. CarnegJe Banquet Room Sign-up sheets posted in residence .halls RSVP Annual Fund Office By April 25th with your team • x6174 .Prizes, Fun, Food Housing Lottery .1984 • 85 The housing lottery will be conducted from May 3 to May 22. The computer will ·randomly assign numbers to students by class year. That is to say, the compute1· randomly assigns numbers to members of the classes o£85, 86, and 87 that live in college owned residence halls. The computer then translates the random number to a number that is t~n­ derstandable- one through 300 • - roughly the class size for each year. This will be done for each class with the exception of the incoming new students. Members of the Residence Life Staff will distribute to eligible students a lottery card bearing the student's n~e, ID number, and lottery number. The student MUST present his- her ID ~d pick up his-her lottery card IN PERSON. Only students presenting IDs will receive a lottery card. If it is impossible for a stupimt to pick up his-her lottecy card. that night, he-she may do so at the Residence Life Office ·the next day. The selection of available on· campus housing will be divided into three categories: co-ops - singles • double~. triples and suites. There will be a meeting to explain the selection process for co-ops on April 24. Members of the Residence Life Staff will answer all questions about the co-op lottery. The remainder of the campus housing will be selected according to class year and by the lottery- nwnber assigned to each student. Singles Lottery: The senior with the lowest lottery number {No. 1) will have first choice of available singles. The senior with the next lowest lottery number (No. 2) will have the second choice. If some singles have not been selected and there are no more seniors present, the jwtior present with the lowest nwnber will have first choice of the remaining singles. This process will continue until an singles have been selected or no eligible student is present to select a single. Double and Suite Lottery: The lottery for doubles, · triples, and suites wlll conclude the process. The senior lottel'y will be held first~ followed by the junior lottery, and, .finally, thl! sophomore lottt>ry. The elass member present With the lowest lottery number will have first pick. The class member with the next lowest lottery number, and present, will follow. When a suite or double is selected, all roommates MUST BE present and aU·MUST SIGN CONTRACTS.. The room or suite will be placed back into tbe lottery .if any of the room· mates do not sign the contract when the room or suite is selected. All occupants of a room or suite who are found to have cheated will lose any right to the room or suite. Additionally, the person(s) who cheated will be fined $100. Points of interest: class .stan- ding is determined by the number of credits received at the end of the winter term-no exceptions; you must be on campus all of spring term to participate in the lottery. REMEMBER ........ . -You must have your ID and lottery card when choosing a room. -The class member present· with the lowest lottery nwn her will have first pick. -The class member with the next lowest lottery number, and present, will follow. -All roommates MUST BE PRESENT AND SIGN CON· TRACTS when the room or suite is chosen. · -Two people may claim one - half of a suite. -All occupants of a room or suite who are found to have cheated will lose any rights to the room or suite. Additionally, the person(s) who cheated will be fined $100. Housing Lottery -1984-85 to-op interest meeting•-Apr. 24,6:30, Fox Lounge. All members of your co-op must attend. Distribution of lottery numbers--May 3 • 6:30·8 p.m.--Seniors, Stage II. MUST HAV.E YOUR 10 • 6.:30·8p.m.--Juniors,. Dav'idson Lounge. MUST HAVI: YOUR 10 • 6:30-8 p.m.--Sophomores, Fox Lounge, MUST HAVEYOUR ID co-op Lottery--May a, 6:30p.m., Stage 11-Carnegie. Must bring I D, Lottery card Singles Lottery--May 10, 6:30p.m., stage i !-Carnegie. Must brirng I D, Lottery card Senior Lottery (doubles & suites)-- · May 15, 6:30 p.m., Stage !!-Carnegie._ Must bring 10, Lottery card. AU roommates must attend. iunior Lottery (doubles. & suifes)--Mav 17, 6:30p.m., Stage 11-Carnegie. Bring I D, Lottery card. All roommates must attend. · Sophomore Lottery (doubles & suites)-·May 22, 6:30p.m., Stage 11-Carnegie. Bring 10, Lottery card. All roommates must attend. · * Stage 11 is ·located next tothe Game .Room on 3rd floor of Carnegie Ha.ll. E It ha< that the somewl ours ·th my nan not a VI are c111 hundre< I kne~ legenda town, e 1 after tl stoodst thenort that lis ·outside see thal the com Ashlan~ hundrefl Clevela1 My .fi1 letter to althougl my lett Ashlanrl (AGS) Nankin: the hoi basketb Ashlanrl previow the nam In addit of the to to me. 1 importa Routes f AGS stil thetowr J BCl Sp \'11 DCJ Sp1 w p, Br mE stc ThE Jun

CONCORDIENSIS, April i9, 1984 PageS FEATURES On the Career Front: My Town in Ohio Discussion: ''Life After Union'' By MATT ~ANlON It had never occurred to me that there couli:l be a small town . somewhere in this great land of ours that would actually bear my name--especially since it is not a very conunon one~ There are curr~ntly less than one hundred Nankins in the U.S. and 1 .knew of none who were legendary enough t!> have a town, even a small one, named after them. However, there I stood s~ring at it on the map of the northeastern J)artof the u.s. that used to be on the wall · outside Strauss Lounge. I could see that it was located next to the comparatively large city of Ashland which is perhaps a few hundred miles southwest of Cleveland. • My first step was to write a letter to the Nankin library, and although no such ·place eldsted,. my letter was referred to the Ashland Genealogical Society (AGS) which characterized Nankin as a one-street town and the home of a semi-famous basketball coach at nearby Ashland College. The ~own was previously known as Orange but the name was changedln 1930~ In addition, copies of old maps of the town of Orange were sent · to me. Today, Nankin is at the important intersection of State Routes 58 and 302. However,. the AGS still could not tell me why the town had .changed its name to Nankin in the first place. By this time, the e-xcitement and suspense of the my~tecy was . more than I c~uld :wi~tand. The preceediilg all occurred about two years ago when the thrill of the case became too overwhelming aad: I had to drop it. However, a few weeks ago I ordered the AShland phonebook (which included Nan}Qn) from · the telephone company. I imnu!diately went through the book and checked off everyone living in ''my\ town.1 wa$ v~ry proudtolearn there is a Nankin Post Office, Nankin Fire Department, and even a Nankin Federated Church. However, there is no one ·in Nankin or any of the surrounding communities named Nankin (,people, that is). One day 1 have a dream of going back to my town where I · will be greeted by throngs of well-wishers and a parade down Nankin~s Main Street .. When night comes, I will make off with all s~gns that bear my name (except those on the church) and decDrate my room with them. MY .11ext step is to send a copy of this article along with an accompanying letter to the Nankin F1ederatedChurch in the hope that they will be able to solve the mystery .of the town's name. It is not easy having a town named after me; I only hope I can live up to their expectations. } Dutch Hollow Pub H.Ap·py HOUR Start Your Weekend Right! Special Prices on Fridays Between 5 and 7 p.m. COMING Bogart Night on Thursday, AprU 26. Sponsored by the Pub and Gordon's, ~~maker of fine gin & vodka. 1 ' FREE · Door · Prizes and great Drink Specials. You make the night SPECIAL! We wi II honor competitors' ads at the Pub (or match them as best we can} 9-11:30 Bring in an ad for another· establish- ment, give it to the Pub manager, and start the special for the night! CAUTION: We will not honor Cln.y \give awayn Clds Sophomores • By DIANNEPAVACIC Career Assistant Coeducation has existed at Union for ten years now. ln conunemoration, on Tuesday, AprillO, eleven women alUinni participated in 2l panel discussi<m on \'Life After Union.\ Graduates from classes of 1974:, (the first graduating class of women) through the class of 1983 were represented. . .All the graduates agreed that their life at Union was nothing like their life now. To the students in the audience, they stressed that they should broaden their Union experience by· participating in other activities besides theiJ: school work. GaUSnitkoff '74 put it this way..,..\The ability to diversify ·is something that you'll never get another chance to do ~gain to the extent you can at Union. You should all take advantage of it. It'll give you a lot of confidence later on when faced with challenging · work responsibilities.\ Career Paths Kathryn Mullaney '74 said that there was no connection between what she had originally set out to do and what she is actually doing now. \As long as 1 have a challenging job and I'm learning I will contin11e at that job.\ Ms. Mullaney is the manager of the Internal Auditing Department of. General Electric in Utica. She ~I By DOUG LANDON WRUC is almost midway through a very successful and active term, and has . a busy schedule planned for the next several weeks. At Monday's executive board meeting~ the 1984-85 budget was unanimously approved. We have trimmed out bottom line request by about $1500 in an effort to increase the efficien«!Y of the station and conserve student activity funds. Business manager Kathi Zuckerman worked diligently to arrange and type the detailed budget in order to turn it in on time. Of course, we made the deadline! . The executive board voted unanimously to approve the proposed budget. Remote broadcasts from Chuck E. Chee's. are schedUled to begiil next Wednesday, April 25, and will continue through the riext three weeks. Jackie Hatfield organized the month· long feature with manager ·of the Chuck E. Cheese restaurant on Route 7, Bob Natowitz. The promotions department Win an All-Expenses Paid Yea~. in Scotland lnformatiQna'l Meeting tonight • 7 p.m. Conference Room A Carnegie 11aU The st. Andrews Scholarship covers al·l tuition, room and board for your Junior year at St. Andrews University, Scotla~d. had originally wanted .to go into marine biology. Similarly, Ivette Mesa \19» graduated with. a psychology degree intending to be a cotmselor. However, she foiDld herself working at Key Bank managing training programs. She is now a8sist;mt manager of the branch. She explains, \1 realized that because I was involved in different activities on campus and had acquired some skills other than counseling that it opened a lot of doors for me.\ In contrast, Catherine Gifford '83,graduated wit'lan electrical engineering degree. She w~s the only person on the ·panel that actually entered the field she intended to pursue. Ms .. Gifford claimed that, \Every company wanted EE's wh,en I got out- I'm the only woman engineer in my department. I work 60-hour weeks but everything is going well.\ Linda Burns '75, discussed the difficulties of finding a job. She did an extensive search for seven months. Through the help of agencies, advertisements and networking, she went to fifteen interviews. \The more interviews I went on the more confused I got as to what I wanted.\ She now works for the Continental Grain Company as a com~nsation analyst for top executives. She described the business as \secretive\ and ''what you know, when, is crucial.\ Persoul Life Gail Snitkoff '74, went on to News is planning giveaways and sales of publicity items for a few upcoming spring weekend events. Look for us at Camp Union or before! We should have· something to interest everyone. Also, the staff is in the process of having some attractive advertising posters for the station made up. . The board unanimously- approved nominations for a few appointed positions. Scott Elkind, who has been acting news director since I left the position to become director of promotions at the end of last term, was officially confirmed. By already arranging a full schedule of newscasts for the spring term, Scott has proven himself willing to take on the job. The new record hop directors are B.J. Mora and Tony Cor- sello. They have prepared ·a comprehensive budget for next year, which the board okayed as well. · Jackie Hatfield, who has worked with former promotions director Eric Lipman to en· courage the community to tune- in to WRUC, was named publicity director. Eric Hor- nick, with his long history of involvement with sports, will be in charge of sports and special programs. The new music director is Kaveh Shebani. Kaveh reported that a playlist would be sent out yesterday. As alway~ we encourage everyone to listen to WRUC. Turn on 89.7 FM and try to win one of our giveaways, while at the sanae tinne catching sonne progressive tunes and an in~ fonnative, if not Innovative, newscast. get her PhD in Immunology, married a Union graduate and is currently home witb her two children. She .. explained that she wants to teach but doesn't want a full-time Job. \I couldn't balance it all to my satisfaction right now.\ Yet, Amy Titus '75, a consultant and director of Titus Associates, travels nine months out of every year and said that it has \taken a tollon my personal life. She said that, \To be a consultant you need experience and credibility. A woman going into third world countries has to gain the trust of the people before they will respect her dech!ions. I feel like I'm really making it.\ Vicki Watkins, '76, is a chemist at GE's Research and Development Center and is extremely happy with her job because it enables her· to work from 8-1 p.m. and then to be home with her children. \My family is very important to me: I feel very fortunate to be able to blend both areas of my life right now.\ Sharon Blum '78, started out planning to go to law school, married a Union graduate and ended up as a paralegal. She said, \1 noticed many women who were in the paralegal field were here because of childbearing and that they weren't happy with what they were doing.\ She decided to start her own market research firm while her husband went on to get his MBA from Wharton. She said that being her own bOSs is \extremely rewarding but very taxing.\ She also said that she was very fortunate to have such ' an understanding husband. \The worst 1 could do, is to fail and my husband's attitude was one of 'go for it and see what happens'.\ Susan Brown '78, also married a Union graduate and claims that \Every time 1 went through a .career change I was considering two careers.\ Her husband got a job· with Corning Glass in Corrung, New York. The company, according to Ms. Brown, is very interested in hiring couples and so she was able to get a job there as manager of EEO and Affirmative Action . Adviee All of the alwnni stressed the importance of doing more than just schoolwork so that you will be prepared to adapt to new jobs that require skills you don't get from books. Sharon Blum '78 recommended that everyone should take advantage of Union alumni-\Call them up and talk to them about their jobs. You will always get a positive reaction-it is a sisterhood under Minerva too!\ Others talked about how hard it is to \break away\ from Union. They spoke of the change from a \community family environment like Union\ to the atmosphere where \you are considered to be a superwoman.\ Gail Snitkoff '74 said that, \You don't have to be a superwoman. You're going to have to make compromises from the day you get out of here. So make the ones you can live with. People will expect you to do everything. Balance it out and don't feel guilty about making· compromises.\ . Catherine Gifford summed up the evening with a good analogy-\Be willing to ask for help-it is easier to look at a wall twenty feet away than it is an inch away.\

Poge6 FOIIIWlnl at ·union Coli. I!Jli ----------- ---------- A Stronger Week The Committee on Union Education (CUE), famous for the split winter tenn proposal, has recently come u.p with another plan which presents an alternative to the current weekly class schedule. Under this proposal, the meeting times of classes w(luld alter- nate between two patterns. In this way no class would meet on two consecutive days. . . The proposal itself has some good benefits. Under Union's present schedule, students often feel over• whelmed by the pressure of having a class meet four or five days· per week without allowing. them any time to absorb the matenal or to catch up. The recom~ mended plan. also provides for a free time slot on certain days of the week which would provide a convenient way to eliminate conflicts between classes and such activities as organizational meetings and guest lecturers. With the present plan, such functions often have to be held late in the day so that the maximum nwnber of participants can attend. Although it is good in theory, the proposed plan will take some getting used to for those students who are accustomed to the way things are now. Classes would no longer start on the half hour, but instead would commence at such obscure times as 12:50 or 2:40. You will no longer just be thinking of where your class is held or what day of the week it is held on. The new question will be what time does it start. (By the way, the first class of the day would not begin until 9:00 under the new schedule, thus eliminating the dreaded 8:30.) Seriously though, the initial problems could be easily worked out and it wouldn't be all that difficult to adjust to the new schedule. Some students will also be sorry to learn that should the proposal go into effect there would no longer be the common \two-weekend\ week which now exists. This might initially cause some dissent among the Tuesday night Skellar rats and partygoers. However; these problems can also surely be worked out. Overall the plan seems to be a good one as it alleviates some of the disadvantages that Union students and faculty now experience :which are inherent in the trimester system. CUE is willing to hear all input from faculty and students about the new proposal. It is certainly something to think about as it could enhance the academic atmosphere at Union while alleviating some of the pressures of the trimester system. The following clubs Dl D NOT submit budgets for the 84-85 academic. year 1. Concert Band 6. Spanish Club 2. Crosscurrents 7. Un.ion Lampoone 3. Electronic Music Club 8. Volleyball 4. Intellectual Cabaret 9. Sailing Club 5. Political Forum <Steve Benson> These clubs should contact Brian Laux or Andy George IMMEDIATELY! The Committee on Committees is now accepting applications for ALL Student/Faculty and Student/College committees for the l91W85 academic year. All interested applicants should pick up applications at the student Activities Box 'Office. Applications are DUE MONDAY, APRIL 23rd, and should be returned to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. Applications will be accepted for the following committees: · *Traffic and Pet Court *Concert Committee * Conductcornmittee *Social Committee *Film Committee Athletic Liaison Committee Residence Life Committee Finance Committee Research and Grant Sub-Council Planning and Priorities * Speaker's Forum Standing of Students committee Admissions Liaison Committee Committee on Committees Student Affairs Committee Academic Affairs Committee Academic Affairs Council Skellar Board * Elections Committee *Denotes committee with a student chairman. For desct:\iPtion of all committees, look in the back of any l=reshman Record. COIVCORDIEN_.SIS, Apri/19, /984 LETTERS Selection Processes Criticized To the Editors: I would like to take' this op- . portunity to question the Orientation Committee (OC) and Orientation Advisor (OA) selection: process here at Union. This matter has bothered me for a long time now so I am hoping that my inquiries here will be taken as constructive criticism on the part of the administration and the com- mittee itself. Every · year, the dean of st~dents and the OC's previous committee chairmen pick students from . submitted ap- plications to sit on the Orien- tation Committee. It is then this committee's job to, among other things, undergo a selection process for Orien- tation Advisors. After beillg . · inundated with numerous ap- plications and undergoing a lengthy interviewing process for prospective OA's, the OC · must then make a decision as to who should represent the College as OA's to incoming freshmen. ·Obviously, the OC must get many qualified applicants from which to choose so the decision process must be more than difficult. Also, the dean of students must do his best to select students to be on the OC althoUgh he must have to rely highly on his advisors, the former OC chairmen, for he cannot possibly know every student who applies for the OC as well as he might like in order to make his final decisions on OC members. · · My complaint about this pr~cess is that it is, as it has been at least during my three years here, reminJscent of a spoils system. Friends select friends; brothers select brothers. I have no proof of this nor do I desire to point a finger at anyone; it wouldn't do anyone any good if I did. Also, itis nearly impossibl~ to negate any biases that a member has for an individual; we're only human may sound like a cop out, but it holds true. The OC may pride itseH on its objectivity in the selection process, but this does not always display itself in the end. Of course, people wish to make their friends· an OA if they wish to be. More importantly, these friends selected would and have made, excellent OA's in the past. No one will deny that almost anyone can be a AU letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday before publicati- on. All letters must be signed bot na rnes wi II be withheld upon request. Any senior interested in deUyering OUR student address ple.pse submit a . typed copy of. your 3- . 5 minute speech to Mrs. Marra in · Student Activities by Monday, April30. good OA if he or she b~ ail interest and desire to do so. What really bothers me; however,. ~that if t._e OC is just going to select it$ friends and brothers and sistef.S, with . a scattering of \outsiders\ for eff~ct, why bother subjecting that .portion 9f the campus which doesn't have a friend on the committee, and may even have an enemy on it, to thiS process .if their selection is not. going to be considered th~t highly? There are many qualified members of this campus who don~t even bother to apply because they know that without a friend on the com- mittee they won't 'be selected. Of course, this helps the OC by narrowing down ~he field,·but it just wastes its time along with those people who don't have a · shot at becoming an·OA because they don't know the right people involved: · What is even more .interesting is when people are chosen to be an OA one year and not· the following two. Maybe these people were.not good OA's, but I doubt this is really the case. I know of very capable and en.· thusiastic people who have been selected to be an OA and have done great jobs, as noted by the· freshmen in their group. These people's only folly is that they made the · mistake of not knowing anyone on the com- mittee in succeeding years in order to get the OA position. I suppose. that if I want to make this sound like con· structive criticism as desired ratherthan. a lett€lr di.rected out- of mere spite, I will have to make a few more· .personal claims here. I was an OA my sophomore year and I am the first to admit it is primarily because I knew quite a few people on the committee. who happened to be close friends. I also know .other people who were in this same situation~ However, in the last two years, I have not known aJ1yone on the • committee that would necessarily pull for me as these earlier people would have and · did. There may even be some people on the committee that I . do not get along with, but ijlat shpuld not t~fiect on my ability . to be a good OA. I know more about tbis school than do most students, a~d enjoyed Jn· teracting with 'tbe · incoiDinJ! . £reshman; the OC and· other · OA's in the past. I still keep in touch with some of the fresh- · nian in_ my group when I was an . OA and. consider them friends even today. I know it is ·fair to give other students a chance to · be an OA, but that doesn't ac- count for the same students selected to be an OA year after year. My statement here is, after this long explB.Aatpry note, that · the administration and the OC should reevaluate their · selection process· along with their motives. This problem arises not only in the OA selection~. but also in ruttesmen as well. These committees are · comprised of stut;l~nts that are supposed to be adult enough to make decisions based op merit . and not on friendships. The OC and administration should take a long look at themselves and instead of being proud of ,their endeavors, it should be more · · critical. There are problems with the selection system, but instead of admitting that they exist,. they: should be rectified: . otherwise, the OC should take some lessons from the Com- mittee on Committees where, although it may not be perfect, at least selections are made on merit. · Respectfully submitted, . Gayle Rosenfeld ] ·To the l 1'his eq>lain resignat mernbet mittee. \The : sh~wna my sol • p()rnog1 Ct»mmit job in e, respons callousn they ~a· opponen po.rnQgi disgracE A casE c~mpro wllen it \pomo\ the wint spring.1 on and showing StFeet\ Qf · prot1 Cllairm, pr.CJpose no graph! tennsot the imp influenc• show the aided b: proxy .V( margin. member selves to \Cafe : designat An ByBEAl What U: abotlt ilb campus? Wood ge College w within thE alltbe wa: use theca theEastc for a bett Russians 1 missiles ~ plmt. Wit: created, t haveto ra times, an.c mo11ey th1 ovet\ the , new fa< CHMEND Mr. Woe studtmt in1 . . nnportant read on a11 do 11~t dis. r··· I I I I I I I I I • ac I • a I hou I • tl 1 cov I •wl I I I I I :I s -··

Page6 <llDttnlrbirttsis FountlN 111 {Inion Coll~t 1877 ------------ ----------- A Stronger Week The Committee on Union Educatic;m (CUE), famous for the split winter tenn proposal, has recently come up with another plan which presents an alternative to the current weekly class schedule. Under this proposal, the meeting times of classes would alter- nate between two patterns. In this way no class would meet on two consecutive days. The proposal itself has some good benefits. Under Union's present schedule, students often feel over- whelmed by the pressure of having a class meet four or five days per week without alowing them any time to absorb the material or to catch up. The recom- mended plan also provides for a free time slot on certain days of the week which would provide a convenient way to eliminate conflicts between classes and such activities as organizational meetings and guest lecturers. With the present plan, such functions often have to be h.eld late in the day so that the maximum number of participants can attend. Although it is good in theory, the proposed plan will take some getting used to for those students who are accustomed to the way things are now. Classes would no longer start on the half hour, but instead would commence at such obscure times as 12:50 or 2.: 40. You will no longer just be thinking of where your class is held or what day of the week it is held on. The new question will be what time does it start. (By the way, the first class of the day would not begin until 9:00 under the new schedule, thus eliminating the dreaded 8:30.) Seriously though, the initial problems could be easily worked out and it wouldn't be aU that difficult to adjust to the new schedule. Some students will also be sorry to learn that should the proposal go into effect there would no longer be the common \two-weekend\ week which now exists. This might initially cause some dissent among the Tuesday night Skellar rats and partygoers. However, these problems can also surely be worked out. Overall the plan seems to be a good one as it alleviates some of the disadvantages that Union students and faeulty now experience which are inherent in the trimester system. CUE is willing to hear all input from faculty and students about the new proposal. It is certainly something to think about as it could enhance the academic atmosphere at Union while alleviating some of the pressures of the trimester system. The following clubs DID NOT submit budgets for the 84-85 academic year 1. Concert Band 6. Spanish Club 2. Crosscurrents 7. Union Lampoone 3. Electronic Music Club 8. Volleyball 4. Intellectual Cabaret 9. Sailing Club 5. Political Forum (Steve Benson) These clubs should contact Bria11 Laux or Andy George IMMEDIATELY! The committee on Committees is now accepting applications for ALL Student/Faculty and Student/College Committees for the 1984-85 academic year. All interested applicants should pick up applications at the Student Activities Box 'Office. Applications are DUE MONDAY, A~RIL 23rd, and should be returned to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. Applications will be accepted for the following committees: *Traffic and Pet Court * Concert Committee *Conduct Commit.fee *Social Committee *Film Committee Athletic Liaison Committee Residence Life Cornm ittee Finance Committee Research and Grant Sub-Council Planning and Priorities *Speaker's Forum Standing of Students Committee Admissions Liaison Committee Committee on Committees Student Affairs Committee Academic Affairs Committee Academic Affairs Council Skellar Board *Elections Committee * Denotes committee with a student chairman. For description of all committees, look in the back of any Freshman Record. CONCORDJENSIS, Apri/19, 1984 LETTERS Selection Processes Criticized To the Editors: I would like to take this op- . portunity to question the Orientation Committee ( OC) and Orientation Advisor ( OA) selection process here at Union. This matter has bethered rne for a long time now so I am hoping that my inquiries here will be taken as constructive criticism on the part of the administration and the com· mittee itself. Every year, the dean of .students and the OC's previous committee chairmen pick ·students from submitted ap- plications to sit on the Orien· tation Committee. It is then this conunittee's job to, among other things, undergo a selection process for Orien· tation Advisors. After being inundated with numerous a p- plications and undergoing a lengthy interviewing process for prospective OA's, the OC must then make a decision as to who should represent the College as OA's to incoming freshmen. Obviously, the OC must get many qualified applicants from which to choose so the decision process must be more than difficult. Also, the dean of students must do his best to select students to be on the OC although he must have to rely highly on his advisors, the former OC chairmen, for he cannot possibly know every student who applies for the OC as well as he might like in order to make his final decisions on OC members. My complaint about this process is that it is, as it has been at least during my three years here, reminiscent of a spoils system. Friends sel~ct friends; brothers select brothers. I have no proof of this nor do I desire to point a finger at anyone; it wouldn't do anyone any good if I did. Also, it is nearly impossible to negate any biases that a member has for an individual; we're only human may sound like a cop out, but it holds true. The OC may pride itself on its objectivity in the selection process, but this does not always display itself in the end. Of course, people wish to make their friends an OA if they wish to be. More importantly, these friends selected would and have made, excellent OA's irl the past. No one will deny that almost anyone can be a All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday before pub I icati- on. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. Any senior interested in delivering OUR student address ple;:~se submit a typed copy of your 3- 5 minute speech to Mrs. Marra in Student Activities by . Monday,April30. good OA if be or she ntiS an interest and desire to do so. What redly bothers me, however, is that if the OC is just going to select its friends and brothers and sisters, with a scattering of \outsiders\ for effect, why bother subjecting that portion of the campus which doesn't have a friend on the committee, and may even have an enemy on it, to this process if their selection is not going to be considered that highly? There are many qualified members of this campus who don't even bother to apply because they know that without a friend on the com- mittee they won't be selected. Of course, this helps the OC by narrowing down the field, but it just wastes its time along with those people who don't have a shot at becoming an OA because they don't know the right people involved: What is even more interesting is when people are chosen to be an OA one year and not the following two. Maybe these people were not good OA' s, but I doubt this is really the case. I know of very capable and en- thusiastic people who have been selected to be an OA and have done great jobs, as noted by the freshmen in their group. These people's only folly is that they made the mistake of not knowing anyone on the com- mittee in succeeding years in order to get the OA position. I suppcJse that if I want to make this sound like con- structive criticism as desired rather than. a letter directed out of mere spite, I will have to make a few more personal claims here. I was an OA my sophomore year and I am the first to admit it is primarily because I knew quite a few people on the committee who happened to be close friends. I also know other people who were in this same situation. However, in the last two years, I have not known anyone on the committee that would necessarily pull for me as these earlier people would have and did. There may even be some people on the committee that I do not .get along with, but that should not reflect on my ability to be a good OA. I know more about this school than do most students, and enjoyed in- teracting with the incomin~ freshman, the OC and other OA's in the past. I still keep in touch with some of the fresh- man in my group when I was an OA and consider them friends even today. I know it is fair to give other students a chance to be an OA, but that doesn't ac- count for the same students selected to be an OA year after year. My statement here is, after this long explanatory note, that the administration and the OC should reevaluate their selection process along with their motives. This problem arises not only in the OA selections, but also in @tesmen as well. These committees are comprised of students that are supposed to be adult enough to make decisions based on merit and not on friendships. The OC and administration should take a long look at themselves and instead of being proud of. their endeavors, it should be more critical. There are problems with the selection system, but instead of admitting that they exist, they should be rectified. otherwise, the OC should take some lessons from the Com- mittee on Committees where, although it may not be perfect, at least selections are made on merit. Respectfully submitted, Gayle Rosenfeld J To the I This explain resign at member mittee. The l shown a any sol1 pornogr Commit1 job in e\ · respons callousnt they ha, opponen1 pornogr disgrace A case compr01 when it \porno\ the winb spring.1 on and showing Street\ : of protE Chairml propose' nographi term sot ! the imp1 influence show the I aided b~ I ! proxy vc margin. I member: I selves to :. ' i \Cafe 1 designate An ByBEAl What is about illu campus? Wood ge· College wl within the all the wa~ use theca theEastc' for a bett' Russians< missiles a plant. Wit! created, t: have to raJ r times, and ; money thE I over the< new fac CHMENDI Mr. Woe student in) important read on an do not disl r··· I I I I I I I I I I I • ac I I • aJ I hou I • tl I I cov I •wl I I I I s I I .. ..

CONCORDi£NSI~ApHl~lM4 Pf16e 7_ Film Committee Menlber Resigns · To the EditOr: \This· letter is intended to eEplain the reasons for my resignation of my position as a member of the Fihn Com- mittee~ 1he Fib:n Committee has sh~wn a lack .of desire to reach · my solution on the issue of ptnnography. Granted, the · ~DPirlttee has done a decent job in every other aspect of its responsibilities, bll:t the callousness and arrogance that . they }Jave shown towards the opponents of the showing of p()lrnographic .films is a disgrace. A ·c8$e in point: Fall tenn, a co-mpromise was. attempted wllen it was agreed that a \porno\ film would be shown in th~ winter term, but not in the spring. The proposal was voted on and approved; After the showing of HWanda Whips Wall StFeet\ sparked an outpouring of protest, Film Conunittee Cllairman Andy Rosen pr.()posed that. another por- nographic film be sbown spring tenn so that people wouldn't get the impression that they had influenced the Committee not to show these films. The proposal, aided by rwo \queStionable\ proxy .votes, passed by a sllin margin. The Committee members then treated them- selves to a private screening of \Cafe Flesh,\ this term's designated smut movie. Meanwhile, ther,e was a similar potpourri of spurrious logic being tossed about at a Student Forum meeting.. One Foi'UIJl member, Matt Nankin, claimed that studies have \psyGhologically proven\ that these. fjlms reduce violence, a claim that every member of the Psychology and Sociology .Depart;ments that I have spoken to would disagree with. I challenge Mr.· Nankin to produce any worthwhile evidence to back up hia o·utrageous testimo.nial. Another Forum member, JacqJJ.e$ Simon, stated that pornography should not be compared with the Holocaust because the Nazis killed millions of 'people,. and as .far as he knew, nobody dies bec:ause of sex. What Mr. Simon doosn't realiZe· is that women are murdered on screen (for real) in \snUff\ films the ultimate . ' extension of pornograp)ly. It should also be. pointed out that the violence caused by por- nography leads to murder. (I have nothing against either Forum members personally, but I must disagree with their beliefs.) What the students of this . sch<lol don't seem to understand is that pornographic films do cause violence, particularly violence against women. These films depict women as existing for the sole purpose of giving men pleasure. They are filled wlth $Cenes where rnen degrade. and take advantage of women. They portray situations which. are grossly WU\ealistic. Finally,: they encourage sexual and social behavior that can best be . described as dubious. It iS certain that people imitate what they see in films; just the sight of. an entire generation wearing \Flash- dance\ sweaters should make this point obvious. Three years. ago, a man tried to kill the· President because he saw an actor try to do the same thing • in a film he watched over thirt;f • tin'ies. When the students of this college imitate what they see in \Wanda Whips Wall Street,\ it leads to tension, frustration, andviolence-problemsthat this campus has enough of already. So, in an attempt to show my disgust for the Fibn Com- mittee's · actions, and to help · • enlighten the campus com- · • munity, I hereby tender my · resignation from the F.ilm Conunittee. In doing so, I urge a . campus-wide .referendmn on the question. Let us together end this disgrace. Richard Biegen '84 · P.S. AU are welcome to attend tonights' meeting of STOP- . Students To Oppose' Por- nography at 8:00 in the Car- negie 4th floor lounge. An Enlightening Issue . By BEAUREGUARD SMITH proposed additions to the out- through the Gardens late at door light standards and wan night, by themselves? If they What is all of this nonsense pack lights mentioned in the do, well they deserve what is abont illuminating the entire \Campus to llluminate\ article coming to them because of their campus? Pretty soon, if Cliff in last weeks issue of Con- stupidity. Wood gets his way, Union cordienses of April 12, 1984 H you really have to put up College will be a mecca of light except one-the illumination of more lights, illuminate the within the city of light; pilots, Jackson Gardens. American Flag, which is con- alltbe way from California, will Why ·ruin a ratber natural, spicuously left up twenty.;four use the campus as a beacon for peaceful, serene, and romantic hours a day. At least. it would the East coast; and it will make setting with unattractive, an- illwninate that \dark\ part of for a better bullseye when the noying, highly costly; gauky, the campus and you would be Russians decide to launch their grotesque, and harsh vapor· recognized as a true American missiles and blow up the GE lights? Jackson Gardens is one patriot. Plllllt. With all of the extra lig~t of the last remaining places on Oh, and if you really want created, the school WQuld just campus which has not been some advice as to how to, \ ... have to raise tuition a few more invaded by the latest in modem organize your budget and times, and with all of the extra age gadgetry. . orgamze your planning for the mo11ey they could put a dome If you want the gardens to be future,\ why not try donating ovei\ the campus and call the ill11Illinated, let them . be some of the next ten thousand new facility the '' DUT- illuminated by the light of a full dollars you spend to the library CHMENDOME\. moon. The Gardens are a place · so they can buy more books. In Mr. Wood, if you want some where one (ortwo) cangotoget that way we can aU plan on stud~nt input. which, \ ..• is an away from it all. Do not force us enlightening our minds as well important part of the process,\ to enter a urban concrete jungle as the rest of the c~pus. Well reatl on and you will get some. I setting before we have to. By that is what we go to college for, do IL~t disagree with any of the the way, how many girls walk isn't it? r -----------·--------------------- .. . - I I UNIONCOLLEGE IFC I 1 sponsors 1 I I I Liability Insurance Workshop 1 ! Insurance agents will speak on: I I • adequate protection--how !\uch i~su.rance is en~ough? I 1 • are you covered for a.cc•~ents 1ns1de. & outs1de your I I house? · I I • the difference between corporation and association I 1 coverage. - , . . 1 1 • what are the various cost options I I ALL fraternity /sororit! officers are urged to attend I 1 Wednesday, Aprrl 25, 1984 at 7:30p.m. 1 I Stud.ent Forum Roo·m, 4th floor, Carnegie I I I -·······---·------·-··············· COMMENTARIES Capital News By JACK ANDERsoN and JOE SPEAR \V ASHINGTON-Just in case you didn't file your tax retums t11is year, let us warn you: It could mean big trouble. The blternal Revenue Service has a f()rmidable arsenal of legal weapons it can use to collect taxes • .And ln recent years, IRS agents have been using these weapons with ever-greater enthusiasm. One of the govermnent's most powerful weapons against delinquent taxpayers is the lien. The IRS can slap a lien on your :property that will keep it tied up for years. If you own a house, for example, you won't be able to sell it Ulltil you agree to pay off the IRS. 'l'he tax collectilrs can also take part of your ballk account and garnishee part .of y()ur wages. In a \worst-case scenario,\ as they say in Washington, the IRS can ac- tually seize your property to pay off your tax debt. The use of these legal weapons has increased dramatically in the past three years. Between 1981 and 1983, levies ·en income and assets nearly doubled-from 740,000 to 1.4million. There was a similar jump in property seizures, from 8~848 In 1981 to 15,554 last year. Some members of Congress have been trying for years to put the brakes on the IItS juggernaut. Two senators, Charle$ Grassley, R-Iowa, an.d Carl Levin, . P·Mic}h , have proposed a change in the law· that would give delinque11t t~ayers greater protection against levies and seizures. As things stand now,- fllr .example, tile IRS usually sends three or four notices of delinquency · before the final one. But the last one is a crusher. It is a registered letter that gives yllu 10 days' notice before your assets are either sejzed or levied, Grassley and Levin want to increase that final grace period to 30 days. .Another area of controversy is how much and what kind of in<!ome and .property is exempt fr()m seizure or levy by the IRS. Until two years ago, a delinqaent taxpayer was granted only a $500 exemption for food, fuel and furniture, plus another $250 for books or tools of the trade. Tbese limits have ·since been raised to $1,500 for necessities and $1,000 for tools of the trade. B11t ·Grassley and Levin think these limits are far too low. They propose an exemption for fOOd, fuel and furniture of $24);000, and they want the ex:ernption for tools of the trade to be $10,000. lRS Conunissioner Roscoe Egger strongly opposes these proposed exemptions. He l,lelleves they would make most · taxpayers immune from IRS efforts to collect delinquent tases. 'I'h.e two senators have other changes in mind for backsliding taxpayers. One would make the IRS responsible for any advice it gives a taxpayer that turns olltto be ~~ng. Another Would automatically pay. attorneys' fees .for taxpayers who Win their cases-if the government's position is \not substantially justified.\ And the government would bear the burden of proof. POI.JTICAL ROAD SHOW: President Reagan's trip to China this month will ac- complish little of substance- beyond giving a .boost to the president's election-year image. Trade agreements will be signed, and announcements of cultural and scientific ex- changes between the two countries will be announced. But all of this was worked. out long in advance. The large controversies, such as the Taiwan issue, will be quietly ignored, and even some of the little controversies will remain unresolved. For example, American businessmen are leery ·Of China's relaxed copyright laws. They don't want to invest a lot of money in China if their designs and techniques can be pirated. Another sticking point in· volves nuclear technology. Chinese officials want U.S. companies to build nuclear reactors for them. Under American law, the United States retains strict control over the reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel to keep it from being used for weapons. But the Chinese believe that what they do with their spent fuel is their business. The Whlte House denies it, of course, but the political ad- vantages of Reagan's trip far outweigh the diplomatic goals. The China visit will portray Reagan as an experienced statesman accustomed to dealing with world leaders. Millions of television viewers will see their president \walking taU\ in China, and Reagan's adviers hope this will make the pubUc forget about the situation in Lebanon and the growing troubles in Central America.·· . POLITICAL POTPOURRI: Democratic presidential con- tenders Walter Mondale and Jesse Jackson have argued fiercely in public debates, but they privately hold strong feelings of mutual respect. Last year, as Mondale waited to address a group of black educators in Washington, Jackson entered the room and genuflected. Mondale returned the gesture. The two men then shook hands and rose simultaneously. -A group called \Athletes for Reagan-Bush\ has been organized by Dick Schafrath, the Cleveland Browns offensive tackle for 13 years. Joining hhn are football greats Jim Brown of the BrownS, Willie Davis of the Green Bay Packers, two- time Ol)'mpic decathalon gold medalist and fonner California Rep. Bob Mathias, former heavyweight champ Floyd Pattemson ant! Han-of-Fame pitch~r Bob Feller of the Cleveland Indians. Copyrlgbt, 1984 United Feature Syndicate, Inc. Union College Cotleenouse pl'esents: FANCY'S TRAIN Friday, April20 • Cabaret Rm • 8:30 Humorous ••• serious •.• songs and airs that will tickle youl' 'fancyt and lead your imagination on a train into the past and future ••••

f ; l ~ l l I I i I I l ·I . I l I -I l I I I - i ~ I i j l I I l II I ! \ CONCORDIENSI~Apml~1~4 Film Committee Member Resigns To the Editor: This letter is intended to explain the reasons .for my resignation of my position as a member of the Film Com- mittee. The Film Coi!liilittee has shown a lack of desire to reach any solution on the issue of pornography. Granted, the CoD]ITtittee has done a• decent job in every other aspect of its • responsibilities, but the callousness and arrogance that they have shown towards the opponents of the showing of pornographic films is a disgrace. A case in point: Fall tenn, a compromise was attempted when it was agreed that a \porno\ film would be shown in the winter term, but not in the spring. The proposal was voted on and approved. After the showing of \Wanda. Whips Wall Street\ sparked an outpouring of protest, Film Committee Chairman Andy Rosen proposed that another por- nographic film be shown spring term so that people wouldn't get the impression that they had influenced the Committee not to show these films. The proposal, aided by two \questionable\ proxy votes, passed by a slim margin. The Committee members then treated them- selves to a private screening of \Cafe Flesh,\ this term's designated smut movie. Meanwhile, there was a similar potpourri of spurrious logic being tossed about at a Student Forum meeting. One Forum member, Matt Nankin, claimed that studies have \psychologically proven\ that these films reduce violence, a claim that every member of the Psychology and Sociology Departments that I have spoken to would disagree with. I challenge Mr. Nankin to produce any worthwhile evidence to back up his outrageous testimo,nial. Another Forum member, Jacques Simon, stated tllat pornography should not be compared with the Holocaust because the Nazis killed millions of people, and as far as he knew, nobody dies because of sex. What Mr. Simon doesn't realize is that women are n1urdered on screen (for real) in \snUff\ films, the ultimate extension of pornography. It should also be pointed out that the violence caused by por- nography leads to murder. (I have nothing against either Forum members personally, but I must disagree with their beliefs.) What the students of this school don't seem to understand is that pornographic films do cause violence, particularly violence against women. These films depict women as existing for the sole purpose of giving men pleasure. They are filled An Enlightening with scenes where men degrade . anr:l take advantage of women. They portray situations which are grossly unrealistic. Finally, · they encourage sexual and social behavior that can best be described as dubious. It is certain that people imitate what they see in fllms; just the sight of an entire generation wearing \Flash- dance\ sweaters should make this point obvious. Three years ago, a man tried to kill the President because he saw an actor try to do the same thing in a fihn he watched over thirty times. When the students of thiS college imitate what they see in · \Wanda Whips Wall Street,\ it leads to tension, frustration, and violence-problems that this campus has enough of already. So, in an attempt to show my disgust for the Film Com· mittee's actions, and to help enlighten the campus com· munity, I hereby tender my resignation from the Film Committee. In doing so, I urge a Canlp~wide referendum on the question. Let us together end this disgrace. Richard Biegen '84 P .S. All are welcome to attend tonights' meeting of STOP- Students To Oppose Por- nography at 8:00 in the Car- negie 4th floor lounge. Issue By BEAUREGUAR.D SMITH proposed additions to the out- through the Gardens late at door light standards and wall night, by themselves? If they What is all of this nonsense pack lights mentioned in the do, well they deserve what is about illuminating the entire \Campus to illuminate\ article coming to them because of their canlpus? Pretty soon, if Cliff in last weeks issue of Con- stupidity. Wood gets his way, Union cordienses of April 12, 1984 If you really have to put up College will be a mecca of light except one-the illumination of more lights, illuminate the within the city of light; pilots, Jackson Gardens. American Flag, which is con- all the way from California, will Why ruin a rather natural, spicuously left up twenty-four use the campus as a beacon for peaceful, serene, and romantic hours a day. At least it would the East coast; and it will make setting with unattractive, an- illuminate that \dark\ part of for a better bullseye when the noying, highly costly, gauky, the campus and you would be Russians decide to launch their grotesque, and harsh vapor recognized as a true American missiles and blow up the GE lights? J·ackson Gardens is one patriot. plant. With all of the extra light of the last remaining places on Oh, and if you really want created, the school would juSt campus which has not been some advice as to how to, \. . . have to raise tuition a few more invaded by the latest in modern organize your budget and times, and with all of the extra age gadgetry. organize your planning for the money they could put a dome If you want the gardens to be future,'' why not try donating over the campus and call the illuminated, let them be some of the next ten thousand new facility the \OUT· illuminated by the light of a full dollars you spend to the library CHMENDOME\. moon. The Gardens are a place so they can buy more books. In Mr. Wood, if you want some where one (or two) can go to get that way we can all plan on student input which, c' .•. is an awayfromitall. Do not force us enlightening our minds as well important part of the process,'' to enter a urban concrete jungle as the rest of the campus. Well read on and you will get some. I setting before we have to. By that is what we go to college for, do not disagree with any of the the way, how n1any girls walk isn't it? r·························--······1 I UNIONCOLLEGEIFC I 1 sponsors 1 I I I Liability Insurance Workshop 1 I I 1 1 nsurance agents will speak on: 1 I • adequate protection--how much insurance is enough? I 1 • are you covered for accidents inside & outside your I I house? I I • the difference between corporation and association I 1 coverage 1 1 • what are the various cost options I I ALL fraternity/sorority officers are urged to attend I 1 Wednesday,April25,1984at7:30p.m. 1 I Student Forum Room, 4th floor, Carnegie I I I ----------------·-···-------------· COMMENT ARIES Capital News By JACK ANDERSON and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON-Just in case you didn't file your tax returns this year, let us warn you.: It could mean big trouble. The Internal Revenue Service has a formidable arsenal of legal weapons it can use to collect taxes. And in recent years, IRS agents have been using these weapons with ever-greater enthusiasm. One of the government's most powerful weapons against delinquent taxpayers is the lien. The IRS can slap a lien on your property that will keep it tied up for years. If you own a house, for example, you won't be able to sell it until you agree to pay off the IRS. The tax collectors can also take part of your bank account and garnishee part of your wages. In a \worst-case scenario,\ as they say in Washington, the IRS can ac- tually seize your property to pay off your tax debt. The use of these legal weapons has increased dramatically in the past three years. Between 1981 and 1983, levies on income and assets nearly doubled-from 740,000 to 1.4 million. There was a similar jlUllp in property seizures, from 8,848 in 1981 to 15,554 last year. Some members of Congress have been trying for years to put the brakes on the IRS juggernaut. Two senators, Charles Grassley, Rbiowa, and Carl Levin, D-Mich., have proposed a change in the law that would give delinquent taxpayers greater protection against levies and seizures. As things stand now, for example, the IRS usually sends three or four notices of delinquency before the final one. But the last one is a crusher. It is a registered letter that gives you 10 days' notice before your assets are either seized or levied. Grassley and Levin want to increase that final grace period to 30 days. Another area of controversy is how much and what kind of income and property is exempt from seizure or levy by the IRS. Until two years ago, a delinquent taxpayer was granted only a $500 exemption for food, fuel and furniture, plus another $250 for books or tools of the trade. These limits have since been raised to $1,500 for necessities and $1,000 for tools of the trade. But Grassley and Levin think these limits are far too low. They propose an exemption for food, fuel and furniture of $20,000, and they want the exemption for tools of the trade to be $10,000. IRS Commissioner Roscoe Egger strongly opposes these proposed exemptions. He believes they would make most taxpayers immune from IRS efforts to collect delinquent taxes. 'The two senators have other changes in mind for backsliding taxpayers. One would make the IRS responsible for any advice it gives a taxpayer that turns out to be m;ong. Another would automaticany pay attorneys' fees for taxpayers who win their cases--if the government's position is \not substantially justified.\ And the government would bear the burden of proof. POLMITCAL ROAD SHOW: President Reagan's trip to China this month will ac- complish little of substance- beyond giving a boost to the presid,ent's election-year image. Trade agreements will be signed, and announcements of cultural and scientific ex- changes between the two countries will be announced. But all of this was worked out long in advance. The large controversies, such as the Taiwan issue, will be quietly ignored, and even some of the little controversies will remain unresolved. For example, American businessmen are leery of China's relaxed copyright laws. They don't want to invest a lot of money in China if their designs and techniques can be pirated. Another sticking point in- volves nuclear technology. Chinese officials want U.S. companies to build nuclear reactors for them. Under American law, the United States retains strict control over the reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel to keep it from being used for weapons. But the C.'hinese believe that what they do with their spent fuel is their business. The White House denies it, of course, but the political ad- vantages of Reagan's trip far outweigh the diplomatic goals. The China visit will portray Reagan as an experienced statesman accustomed to dealing with world leaders. Millions of television viewers will see their president \walking tall\ in China, and Reagan's adviers hope this will make the public forget about the situation in Lebanon and the growing troubles in Central America. POLITICAL POTPOURRI: Democratic presidential con- tenders Walter Mondale and Jesse Jackson have argued fiercely in public debates, but they privately hold strong feelings of mutual respect. Last year, as Mondale waited to address a group of black educators in Washington, Jackson entered the room and genuflected. Mondale returned the gesture. The two men then shook hands and rose simultaneously. -A group called \Atbletes for Reagan-Bush\ has been organized by Dick Schafrath, the Oeveland Browns offensive tackle for 13 years. Joining him are football greats Jim Brown of the Browns, Willie Davis of the Green Bay Packers, two- time Olympic decathalon gold medalist and former California Rep. Bob Mathias, former heavyweight champ Floyd Patternson an~ Hall-of-Fame pitcher Bob Feller of the Cleveland Indians. Copyright, 1984 United Feature Syndicate, Inc. Union College Coffeenouse presents: FANCY'S TRAIN Friday, April 20 • Cabaret Rm • 8:30 Humorous ••• serious ~ .• songs and airs that will tickle your 'fancy' and lead your imagination on a train into the past and future •••.

II) c: ~ .g a! Q.l > Q.l +- V) >- .a 0 .... 0 ..c: Q. Page8 CONCORDJENSIS, Apri/19, 1984 FEATURES ' St. Andrew's University Student Exchange Offered year abroadatthe University of St. Andrews, Scotland's oldest university. fmalists during the week of May 7. Submit applications to the Economics Department Office, SS212. Jennifer· Lane '86, who i ust returned .from the Winter Te.rm in Union College sophomores with a B or better grade point average are encouraged to apply for selection as the Union College \St. Andrews.:Exchange Student\ for the 1984-85 academic year. The selected student will spend his-her junio~ This studeat will enjoy a full year's scholarship at the University of St. Andrews in· eluding tuition, room:and board. There :will ~ a meeting to discuss the program on Thursday, Aprill9. at 7 p~m; in Carnegie, Conference Room A. All interested students are · urged to attend. st. Andrews is located on the Fife coast, 45 mUes north of· Edinburgh and 13 miles south of Dundee. This 11Jliversity city, while it is easily accessible by public transport, still retains much of its rural and historic flavor. Barbados. Term in Barbados Unique . By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor One of Union's features has been its st11ong Terms Abroad Program. One of its more unique offerings is the Anthropology Term Abroad in Barbados. Unlike the usual terms abroad program where the Union students study the foreign culture together as a group; the program in Bar- bados is more in· dividualistically oriented, offering students a chance to learn field study methods, and to formulate their own ideas. ''The tenn teaches you now to be an anthropologist,\ states Sophomore Jennifer Lane, one of the two students par- ticipating in this year's program. (The other was Junior Ellen Lawton.) The two students, who were accompanied by professors George and Sharon Gmelch, were assigned numerous projects\ during their 10 week stay. Initially, Lane was assigned to map the geneologies of two families, conduct a census of twenty families, and a household inventory of over 200 households. These projects were followed by a study of a community problem. Lane chose for her project a unique _ problem. \I had wanted to do a project which also related somehow to biology; in particular the Green Monkeys of the area.\ adds Lane. \Unfortunately while conducting initial research I ran into difficulty relating the two ... It actually turned out for the better; I ended up doing two papers: one which was an en- thnography ( a description of the community), the other a study of folk beliefs (attitudes about the monkeys by · the community).\ In order to conduct her research, let alone become a member of the village in which she lived, Lane went through several adjustments. \During the first week of my stay I felt like a total outsider. Relations with the villagers, even though they spoke English, seemed so hard . . . you have so little in common. The cultural barrier just seems so formidable.\ \What separates the Term in Barbados apart from other Terms Abroad, is the aculturation process which one must go through. Unlike a language barrier, where you have things in common, but cannot fully communicate, I was able to communicate with the natives, but had to over- come a cultural barrier in order to find something in common with them. The people of the village I lived in practice customs which would be deemed unacceptable by people of the U.S. One must learn to accept and eventually un- derstand why they are per- formed.\ With a new openess to dif- ferent customs acquired, Lane reflects upon the value of her experience; \It was one of my most valuable educational experiences. One watch~s the evolution of their attitudes. I initially went from total lack of understanding of these people to being able to understand them, and Why they do things. In addition, upon my return to Union I saw things in a new perspective. You learn that there is not only one way to behave. It is hard for a lot of Americans to believe that there is a totally different 'world' out there . . . To think that such different things are going on out there.\ Lastly, Lane commented on the quality of the term in general.\ A~ I said before, it was one of the . best and most unique educational experiences I have ever bad. However, I feel that the term is not for everyone. Not to be :snobbish, but the experience of being a stranger for 10 weeks, trying to fit, and not quite being accepted is unique. Vacationing ·in Barbados is incredibly dif- ferent from living there. Even with all the difficulties of ad• justing, I still feel it was well worth it.\ Molson Apl)licants are to submit a 2·4 page essay (typed) evaluating their own education at Union ( g()als, success, failures and :SO forth)\\\\\with some attention paid to ways in which a year at St. Andrews might serve them: Students are also asked to Sllbmit one letter of recommendation from a faculty member who knows their work well. Applications must be received by Friday. April 27, 1984. A selection committee will screen the applications and will interview A special attraction of St. Andrews as a univeristy lies in its history,. extending over five. and a half centuries. It$ lOcation also is particularly fortunate;, and in its si1;e it strikes the )lappy .mean, small enough to retain lbelose sense o~ identity and personal contact, large enough to posess the facilities and to attain· the level of academic achievement which distinguish 1:he great univer- sities. · This is an oppOrtunity that every sophomore ought to consider. <,\.: ~.·· .. AVAILABLE AT THE DUTCH HOLLOW PUB. .. The finest ale brewed ~d bottl~ in c~~d~·~··~~~;ted by M~~tlet lmportin·~ u;,' In~.' Cr~~t i'i~k::·N~Y. © 1982. . . . . . ' . .. LE Mark On Tu1 Davenpo1 The Dut< Union Co yournay1 guitarist Nightowl: Rathskell The bancl Mark likE variety a Coming Chicago, profoundl great blt city. He l of the bl1 most re' Locally, associate< Smith Blu innovativ1 duos and Variet~ define M Hehasag wants to U1 Sta~ Us Thur Ca Be1 Papt Hart

CONCORDIENSIS, Apti/19, 1984 Page9 / m··, · .. ··· _E ARTS Th,e Thompson Twins at Proctor's A Night On The Town .. . ~\··~ -- Lead vocalist Tom Baily sets the pace on \Lift Me Up\ .. Mark Davenport Returns Solo On Tuesday, April 24, Mark Davenport will be appearing at The Dutch Hollow Pub on the Union Ccllege campus. Some of you may remember Mark as the guitarist and vocalist for The Nightowls, who played at The Rathskellar back in February. The band is going strong, but Mark likes to play solo ·gigs for variety and diversity. Coming not so directly frmm Chicago, Mark has been profoundly influenced by· the great blues tradition of that city. He has even backed some of the blues giants during his most recent return home. Locally, he has long been associated with the Charlie Smith Blues Band,. and was the innovative force behind their duos and Charlie's band. Variety and spontaneity define Mark's performances. He has a general idea of what he wants to do, but there are .. Union College Staff Association Used Book Sale Thursday, April 26 10-4p.m. Carnegie Hall Benefit Student Book Fund Paperbacks 25 ~ Hardcovers 50~ always detours during the night. He likes to start off the evening with country rock. Songs from Willie Nelson, Marshall Tucker, Bob Seeger, Delbert McClinton or Charlie Daniels flow into one another. The second set switches to Beatles music, with tunes spanning their whole career. Mark knows most of their songs and is only happy to play sen- timental favorites. After midnight, when the night starts to mellow, so does mark. His final set is full of blues, ballads and other stan- dards. You may hear anything from Sam Cook to Frank Sinatra. · By TOD DIMMICK Arts Staff The Thompson Twins ap- peared before a crowd of about 1100 people l~st Thursday night. Judging from the interesting outfits I saw that night, I would say that ·The Thompson Twins appeal to q:uite a variety of people! Moving restlessly about, the crowd waited im· patiently for the concert to ~gin. T-shirts seemed to be in short supply, because I wit• nessed several .attempts by younger fans to remove the Thompson Twins shirts for- cefull:y from Concert Com- mittee members, who weren't sure exactly what to make of the situation. At another moment, . a person with a mohawk, whose gender I couldn't determine, was telling me that I had better give her a front row ticket or I would regret it. With stuff like this going on, I couldn't wait for the concert . Opening for the Twins was a fast-moving, energetic band by the name of .crossfire Choir. As an unknown, and with many people apparently expecting the previous opener Reflex, the band unfortunately was not a big hit. They played about eight songs and left the stage for and endless 20 minutes before The TholJ1pson Twins began. The Thompson Twins had a stage· set that was quite dif• ferent from any other group I have seen. This plus the .exotic instruments played by Alannah Currie and Joe Leeway created a lot of interest. Supported by three huge coltunns on back of the stage, many computer controlled lights swiveled around and pointed in seemingly random directions, accentuating the singers. Multicolored lights were sup- Guitarist Mark Davenport of the Nightowrs. STOP Students To Oppose Pornography . . · . will be having its first meeting. tonight at 8:00 .·in Car- neg·ie in the Fourth Floor Lounge. ----....---Everyone is invited to attend ____ _, ported by fog and unique lightplay on the back of the stage in wavelike motion. Tom Baily, with his characteri$ic raccoon-cap like hair and Alannah Currie with her abstract witch's costume gave an exotic touch to the show. Alannah, in addition, seemed to have Shaved the sides of her head. Hmmm. Their Music? It was vibrant, energetic and-excjting. Using a number of instruments that are nowhere near the conventional guitar and drums groups, they created some stirring music other groups. The other factor is the extensive synthesizer usage by beth Joe Leeway and the lead singer, Tom Bailey. Combhied, the instruments create music that can be unique and attention getting. Indeed, on Thursday night, it was. Almost every song they played, starting with their first was a hit with the audience. As a security guard for the Concert Committee that night, I can attest to their enthusiasm. As expected, the favorites were the national hits, \Lies \Love on Your Side\ and, of course, the song played ad nauseum· on The Thompson Twins rocking Proctor's. that, for me at least, was a public-stations today, \Hold Me welcome change, .fWpt tbe Now.'' One of the most popular mindless guitar cranking that songs of the night was \Doctor! some groups call music. Doctor!\ a recent song of theirs Instrume~ts comprising per- that they actually played twice cussion consisted of a lot during the concert. besides the drutn set. Gongs, The Thompson Twins concert, chimes, marimba and a presented by the active Union xylophone helped to add the College Concert Committee, Reggae-Latin American touch was a success and well worth that is a big difference The seeing. Watch for more great Thompson Twins have from concez1S this spring! Piano Recital Pianists Ann Monaco and Pola Baytelman will offer · a recital of works for four-hands and solo piano music on Wed- nesday, April18 at 8 p.m. in the Union College Memorial Chapel. The program will include works by Scarlatti, Mozart, Poulenc, and Dvorak. The New York premier of \Dop- pleganger,\ a piece for solo piano by composer Hiiary Tann Presslaff, will also be pres.ented. Monaco studied with Jacob Maxin at the New England Conservatory of Music. She has performed extensively on the East Coast and has recorded for WFMT, Chicago's leading fine arts station. Since 1974 she has also been active as ac- companiest for singers and instrtunentalists, performing in Carnegie Hall and other major theaters. Monaco has been on the faculty of the University of Ill~nois at Chicago Circle, C~ICa~o Sta.te University, M1am1 Umversity, and Wilmington College. Baytelman is a well known performer in the Capital District. A native of Chile Baytelman first came to the United States under a Fulbright grant to study at the New England Conservatory. In addition to many solo and chamber music concerts, she has played as a soloist with both the Schenectady and Albany Symphony Orchestras. Baytelman made her debut with the Chilean Symphony Orchestra at 17 and has also performed with other major orchestras such as the Chilean Philharmonic and the Boston Pops. Her concerts have been broadcast on radio and television both in Chile and the United States. · Fancy's Train On Friday, April 20th, serious) songs and airs Will FANcv~s TRAIN will be tickle your 'fancy' and lead perfonning at the Union College your imagination on a train into Coffeehouse. These ac- the past and future. The cof- complished area musicians- feehouse will begin at 8:30. Ray Wall, Larry Meyerhoff and Tickets are available for $1.50 Paul BoudreauM-combine at the Student Activities Box hammered dulcimer, whistles, Office. Come and join us at a . g~itar, ~odhr~n (drum), perfonnance which shall be Uilleann (IriSh) p1pes, bouzouki, enjoyable even fqr those not yet cittern, harmonica and flute in acquainted with Irish folk a delightful blend of Irish songs music. and tunes. Their humorous (and

·Page 10 CAMPUS NEWS SCHOLARSHIPS The National Endowment for the Humanities has announced a unique grants program for individuals under 21 to spend a swnmer carrying out their own non-credit hwnanities research projects. The Younger Scholars Program will award up to 10() grants nationally for out- standing research and writing projects in such fields as history, philosophy and the study of literature. These projects will be carried out during the summer of 1985. The application deadline is. Sep- tember 15, 1984. For guidelines, write to: Younger Scholars Guidelines CN, Rm. 426, The National Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, D.C. 20501. The Capital District Chapter of the National Association of Women in Construction (NA WIC) No. 261 will soon be awarding its' fourth annual scholarship. The award is given in the amount of $250 per semester for a total of $500 per recipient. It is awarded on the basis of need and scholastic achievement to full-time students in an ap- proved degree program related to the construction industry-ie., architecture, engineering, construction technology. For more info contact the Financial Aid Office. The Jewish Children's Ser- vice Organization ( JCSO) offers need-based scholarships and loans to Jewish students from the Hartford, CT area on. a continuing basis. For in- formation, write JCSO at PO Box 17-386, Bishop's Comer Branch, West Hartford, CT 06117. Region 1 of the National Association of College and University Food SerVices is offering a scholarship to a student who intends to pursue a degree in Food Service Administration or a related field of study. The basis for selection includes, but not primarily, need and academic achievement. More information is available in the Financial Aid Office. The Subcouncil on Research and Grants is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Please specify if your project will be completed before June 20, 1984 or if funds will not be needed until July l. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Kaplan's Office (S100) Science and Engineering Center. The deadline for submission of these applications is Monday, April 23rd: It is anticipated that another round of funding will. occur sometime during the fall term. That round will be primarily (pr new faculty who have not previously received such funds or faculty who wish to begin research in an area new to them. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should beldirected to Dean Kaplan. CAREER NEWS NY State Department of Social Services: Summer. in· ternships in Albany for minority college students. The 12 week, paid internships will giv~ in· dividuals valuable experience in the social services field. Applications are available in the CDC. If you missed sigh-ups for the Alumni Career Observation Days, you will have another opportunity to spend time uon- the-job'' with a local professional. On Thursday, May 3, members of the Schenectady Rotary Club will host students at their work places for a half· day, followed by a luncheon~ Sign-ups will be held in the CDC on Wednesday, April 25, from 8:3o-5:00 p.m. Students of all majors and class years are encouraged to take advantage of this program. .. The Center for Study of Responsive Law: non-profit Ralph Nader organization that supports and conducts a variety of research and educational .projects to encourage an inti rcreased awareness of the needs of the citizen consumer. Several writing and research in- ternships are available. S1lDliD.er Jobs in Securities Industry--Juniors: are you interested in a summer position , wit.h Shearson-American Express? There are potential openings in local offices and New York City in sales, operations or junior ad- . ministrative work. Send your resume and cover letter to George Murray, Shearson- American Express, 7 Village Square, Westport, CT 068880. The Environmental Planning Lobby: sponsoring Legislative Internships in environmental politics for the fall. Applicants should have good written and oral communications skills, interest in legislative process, and dedication to en- vironmental protection. Deadline: May 1. HELP WANTED Positions at Grafton Lakes State Park, P.O. Box 163, Grafton, New York 12082. Seasonal Employment-Salary will be $3.40 Per Hour. Starting time will be late May to Labor Day. Three Positions on Maintenance. Applications available in the . personnel Dept., Silliman Hall. Relief Station Needed in a supervised community residence for adults in the Mental Health System. Must he available through the summer and be willing to work weekends and overnights. Mature, flexible, caring people · need only apply. Experience· preferred, but not necessary. Call Mary or Karen at 372-3934, Monday-Friday. Football, Hockey, Soccer players, etc. wanted by local photographer for male figure studies. Some nude work required . .$20.00 per hour. Must be 18-24 years, 6 feet or more and at least 195 lbs. Photo or detailed description and phone to: Box 2169 ESP Station Albany, New York 12220. Faculty wife seeking household help--1 afternoon weekly-within walking distance of campus. Please contact 377- 7235. Student to do painting, please contact 370-3233. Must be ex- perienced. Must be ·available for 100 hours over next month. Duane Rentals needs a few students to set up large tents- delivering-set ups-Must have driver's license--Weekends•- $3.35 per hr. Please contact 346- 3477. Help with garden .. work-- Hours may vary-10 hours a week. $4.00 per hr. Please contact 37()-3322. CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/19, 1984 2 students needed to do odd · j()bs, SOIJle repairs, painting, leaf raking, garden work, miscellaneous hours & grounds chores. Please contact :382-2412 Coffice) 372-2769--Home (evenings). 2 students needed to do odd jobs, some repairs, painting, leaf raking, garden work, miscellaneous, hours and grounds chores. Please contact 382-2412-office. 372-2769-Home (evenings). Student to help with garden work $4.00 per hour. Hours vary-10 hours per week. Please contact 370-3322. CLUB NEWS The New Union College Debate Organization, the Philomatheans, is looking for interested, enthusciastic members. Anyone interested should call either Ben Haftel at 371).6489 or Marc Arkovitz at 370.. 6701>. A new Wrestling Team Club is in the organizing stage. Interested Grapplers should contact Waseem Khan at 365 Fox, 370-6705or Louis Hughes at DU, 382-9272. On April 28, 1984, the Union College Stone Boat Club and the Hudson Valley Society of Civil and Construction Technicians will sponsor a concrete canoe race at Lake Taghkanic State Park. Races will start promptly at 9:00 a.m. Engineering students from schools in New York, New Hampshire, New Jersey, and Ohio will he par- ticipating. Anyone who does not believe that· a canoe made entirely of concrete will float, should plan to attenq. Bring .a picnic lunch and enjoy the day.- For further information contact Prof. Tom Jewell at :37o-6309, or Earle Stokes at 370-6397. SPEAKERS George NcNamee, President, First Albany Corporation will speak on Structural Change in Unit~d States Financial Markets in the Wake of Deregulation on Apri119, 1964 at 3:45 p.m. in Room 312, Bailey Hall, Union College. CLASSIFIEDS Young M.D~ moving to area seeks graduate student, factilty _ or staff person, or serious student to share lat'ge house beginning in June or Sep- tember-On bus line. $250-month includes utilities. Call Carl Osier (716)442-7470. Car For. Sale--1974: Buick Apollo, 74,000 miles. Only $350.00. Call 374-8769. NEED CASH? Earn $500+ each school year, 2-4 (flexible) hours per week placing and fining posters on campus. Serious workers only; we give recommendations. Call now for summer and next fall 1-800-243• Cl679. The National Guitar Sununer WorkshOp (NGSW) will begin its 1984 season in New England on July 21st. The NGSW is a series of one-week long in- tensive guitar workShops. An outstanding faculty of professional performerg.tea· chers will COilduct courses in Rock, Classical, Jazz, Bluegrass, Fo,l:k-Blues ( fingerpicking) and aass: For more information con- tact: Mr. Daviq Smolove·r, Director, NGSW ~ Dept. C, Box· 222, Lakeside, Connecticut, 06758, or call 20~7-8529. c.r.s. 1..800-462-'6204 Citizen Infol,'tnation Service Status of Legisl~tive Concerns in NYS Mon~Fri: 1~ League of :Women Voters of New York State Travel to RQme, Athens, Lisbon, London, Paris, Frank- furt, etc. from only $99 each way. Call :now or send for yoUr FREE brochure.. Operators always on duty. Enclose one dollar for post~ge and handling. Europe Express, Inc. 3460 Majn St., Hartford~ CT 06120 (203) 522- 6580. Safe Place is a support group for families and · friends of suicide victims. Suicide \survivors\ are .often devastated by this cruelest of aU deaths. TWice a month people who have experienced this doubly tragic death to a loved one meet to share cir· cumstances, emotions, ex- periences. information and supporl;. Meeting this month will be held on Tuesday, April 24th at 7: 30 p.m. at 727 Madison Avenue, Albany (The Friends Meeting House.) For more information call48Z..()799, Typing-Papers typed with professional result.; by executive secretary. Fast service and accurate proofreading at $1 per page. Call Judy 39!F3383. Typing done for students. Please contact 346-5104 Niskayuna area Please contact :355-3239 Knows medical terminology Please <!ontact 377-4215 Scotia area. VOLUNTEER~ Any students who Would be interested in doing volunteer work for the Schenectady · Salvation Army (soup· kitchen, surplus· food. distribution, toy and Clothing distribution at Christmas time) please contact e.fther Win Thurlow ,or Pr.ofessor Joseph Board, Political Science Department. Tbe Film Committee Presents: Fahrenheit 451--Tuesday, April 24 at 7, 9, and 11. · Cafe Flesh (X)-Wednesday, April25 at 7, 8:'30, 10 and 11:30. Fanuy . and Alexander-· weekend of April20 at 8:00. PERSONALS Karen-21 years ago a star was added to the sky when you inhaled your first breath, and have since become a wQman. · Happiest· of birthdays and love always-Patience. · NAT.:..we hope you will not continue wild escapades with the \natives\! Way to promote streaking! To my roommate-How was the concert? .• J.D. (or should I say Chuck) The sisters of Delta Gamma would like-to congratulate the newly initiated brothers · of Alpha Delta Phi and Zeta Beta Tau. Todd-Lose some weight Signed. the Twelve people who carried you up the stairs. 12 shots of Jack Daniels +28 minutes--one trip to Ellis Hospital. 1983 Subaru Brat w-cap. Excellent Condition. Asking Maryann, Congratulatl.ons on $6800 • .00. Call after 6 p.m. 370- · getting a job . . 3398. Spring Term . is Party Term!· Come Party at the 47th Annual Delta ·upsilon's 11 50's Party\ on April 28th 10 pm-? Fabulous 50's attire required Leather and steel recom rnended Love; 700 ,._WELC~OM E---....... .to 711li.Ler c' iJne . . . -~ Dl The played Bothga1 they fa Wednest on Satt were at time, b1 defeat t: game. The [ outplayE St. Lav defeate seventh Lawrie~ perience depth af! Union tt their off fine de La wren< defenser: defensiv' stymied score aft 2·2 on 1 Andy Lc; This COil the Dut< scoreles: the Law: goals .. barrassil Union's: By: Sophoi Faulkner Week ho1 like scor. the Dutcl to a stro1 Bonnie team wit has had formance over Am past Mon Russell Skidmore goal can RIJ Continue' Friske, . Testo, a Garnet< first try. opened 1 Union l Patterso: down the to pitch< finished second t third oft try was who sco kick, pre: then tool The scor B In the Killer I again. T was foil(] the Garn at wru. terson, :

CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/19, 1984 · Pagell • • • CrispJ out for season Dutchmen Lax Wins In OT ByS,A.l\f. SJH)rtsStaff The men's lacrosse team played two games this week. Both games were on the road as they faced St. Lawrence on Wednesday and Oneonta State on .Saturday. The Dutchmen were able to win one in over- time, but suffered their worst defeat this season in the other game. The Dutchmen were clearly outplayed Wednesday against St. Lawrence as they were defeated handily 16,2. The seventh-ranked Division UI Lawries looked very ex- perienced and showed good depth as they picked apart the Union team. l,Tnion never got their offense going due to the fine defensive play by St. Lawrence led by aU-American defenseman Chip Santry. Good defensive play by the Dutchmen. stymied the Lawries early. The score after the first quarter was 2-2 on nice goals . by seniors Andy Larkin and Chris Davis. This concluded the scoring f.or the Dutchmen, they were held scoreless for three quarters as the Lawries rolled up fourteen. goals. . Despite the em- barrassing loss, Rob Crispi, Union's goalie, played his be8t game of. the season stopping 32 shots. Other fine defensive efforts came from John Drake and captain Ben Maynard. The team was definitely outclassed and iminediately looked for- ward· to Saturday's game against oneonta State. This game proved to be very exciting and a good win. for the Dutchmen, who won 7-6 with Andy Ross' overtiine goal with b 19 left in the first overtime period. The Dutchmen are now 3-3 for .the year and l-1 in two overtime contests. Union jumped out to a 2-llead at the end of the first quarter on an unassisted goal by Andy Ross and another goal bf Mark Ehudin, who returned after being injured in the first game. Andy Ross helped set up Mark · Ehudin's first goal. Union definitely controlled the first half of the game as Davis continued the scoring in the second quarter on a nice pass from Ross. Ehudin finished the scoring in the first half with a goal on a pass from Mike Baltay, who was looking to shoot but saw Ehudin open in front of the net. The goal came with just 45 seconds left in. the half. Union opened the second half with a 4-2 advantage·. Oneonta took just 39 seconds to • Athlete of\_ the. Week By DREW HURLEY Sports Staff Sophomore attack Bonnie Faulkner gains Athlete of the Week honors for her Gretzky- like scoring pace that .has led the Dutchwomen lacrosse team to a strong 4-2 start. Bonnie currently leads the team with eighteen goals. She has had three four goal per- formances in Union victories over Army, Skidmore, and this past Monday in a 19-6 win over Russell Sage. Against rival Skidn:iore, Faulkner's fourth goal came with two seconds remaining to win the game for Union. She also had three goals in the Dutchwomen's 9-7loss at Wells. As a freshman Bonnie was the team's fourth leading scorer with eight goals and six assists. Miss Faulkner, who also lettered in soccer this year, is from Pahner, MA. She attended Wilbraham & Munson Academy where she captained her iacrosse and soccer teams and was named each team's MVP in her senior year. Bonnie is a Delta Delta Delta sister. Good luck to Dutch women lax for the remainder of the season. Rugby • • • Continued froiD. page 12 Friske, J .R. Fortunato, Steve Testo, and Tom Gengo. The Garnet did not relax after its first try. The second half was opened up with sonne diligent Union advancement. Steve Patterson broke a run wide down the sideline before having to pitch out to Baumgarten who finished the drive off with his second try of. the game, and third of the week. A third Union try was started by Surmners who scooped up a Hamilton kick, passed off to Serrilli who then took it in for another try. The score stood at 14-0. B Side Wins Again hi the second game, the Killer B's were swarming again. The A team's shut-out was followed up by another as the Garnet ran amuck, scoring at will. Tries by -RUey, Pat- terson, Eld Hart; and Andy Klump made the victory an easy-handed one. When the final whistle blew, the Killer B's had their 16-0 victory and the Union RFC completed its successful week of rugby. One further important note is the fact that beginning in the fall, the Union RFC will be competing in a league, in which .two ot its op- ponents will be both Albany State and Hamilton. The club then scrimmaged the Schenectady Reds Wed- nesday afternoon. Saturday the Garnet will take their 2-1 records to Syracuse whe~e it expects to meet a very able- bodied ·orangemen Club. Especially important to note · is that Union upset Syracuse last spring in the Upstate Rugby Tourney. Needless to say, the Orangemen will be loo}dng for sweet revenge, so the Union ruggers will have. to be ready. score the first goal of the third quarter. Another Union goal by Mike WeiSberger, his first of the season,. gave the Dutchmen a 5- 3 lead, but Oneonta scored two quick goals in the last two minutes in the third quarter to tie the game. In the fourth quarter, Union was the first to take the .lead on Ehudin's goal giving him three goals for the game. Oneonta came right back tying the score at 6-6. Davis and Ross. teamed up ag~in as Davis scored on· a pass from Ross to once again take the lead. With just over two minutes left in the game Oneonta scored. Regulation time ran out and forced the game into overtime. Play continued at a fast pace in overtime as Ross took control.of the ball out in front of Oneonta's goal, beat his man, and scored an unassisted goal to win the game. Ehudin's return should help the Dutchmen in their upcoming games against Middlebury and RPI, Wed- nesday and Friday nights, respectively. Due to Rob Crispi~s recent injury, captain Ben Maynard will take over in the net. Come watch Benny and the Dutchmen play· RPI under the lights Friday night at 8 :00 p.m. Intramural - Sp~t ure ByG.W. Sports Staff This week's intramural spotlite award is presented to Sigma Chi's 5-man basketball team after a thrilling 46-43 double· overtime victory over Theta Delta Chi in the A-League Championship held earlier this tenn. Sigma Chi struggled back from a deficit with some clutch shooting in the closing minutes in both regulation and the first overtime. Pete Gillen sent the game into the second overtime by bitting two key free throws with only two seconds remaining on the clock. Sigma Chi finally pulled away at the end capping ·Off a very exciting comeback against a stubborn TDX team. Congratulations to both teams on a great game that kept all the fans in suspense. The Arts Department is conducting a third yeCir evaluation for Assistant Professor of the Arts Leatrice · Meradelsohn,· and solicits the views of the community with regard to Professor Mendelsohn's teaehi· ng, scholarly activity and college service. Please reply to Daniel Robbins, Chair, Arts Department, as saon as possible. SP Sports Talk With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff Over the years it has been said. that April showers bring May flowers but Union baseball coach Jolm Audino has not been looking forward to next month's blossoms these past few weeks. Going into the fourth week of the season the Dutchmen have already had ten games rained out. The squad beg~n indoor practices in the second week of February and have spent the good part of two months practicing under the nets of the Memorial Fieldhouse. The only full week of good weather was enjoyed over . spring break. as the teann got outdoors for the first time all year. Once back in the great northeast it was time to once again retire to the confines of the fieldhouse. By just talking With the players one quickly realizes the frustrations involved with ~pring ball in an environment better suited. for ducks than double plays. After a while the indoor routine of stretching, throwing, hitting off a pitching machine and fielding true hop grounders gets to be a bit boring. No matter what you do it just is not the same as doing it all outdoors. With all the adversity created bY the damp Capital District spring, Audino's squad has shown tremendous offensive power in the few non-rainouts. Once the weather begins to cooperat~ and the pitchers get used to thrOWing- outside thiS\\Sf>l'Utg~s baseball teann should enjoy a good bit of success. Peek-a- Boo: • With the great fan support at football and hockey games this past year one has to wonder what happens to all these faithful Dutchemn during the spring. College lacrosse combines the ex- citement of hockey With the endurance of soccer and the contact of .football. Tomorrow, the Dutchmen play host to rival RPI and the game will be played under the lights getting underway at 8:00 p;m. If you have never seen college lacrosse you are misSing one of the. NCAA's best products. Holding down the goal this season is sophonnore Rob Crispi. In front of the stout netminder is a veteran defense anchored by hard nosed senior Ben Maynard. Adding deptb to the big sticks is a much improved John Drake. Andy Larkin, Tim Clorite, Sam Murray and rookie ace Andy Ross give Fran Meaghers squad balance at midfield. Up front Mark Ehuden, though bothered by nagging injuries, is as good as any attack man in Div. IU. Marathon Man: Mathematics professor Ted Bick may be walking around campus a bit slowly but he has quite a good excuse. Last Tuesday the 53- year-old Schenectady native traveled east to Boston to compete in his 12th Boston Marathon. Bick covered the gruelling 26-mile course in a very impressive time of two hours and fifty-etght minutes. Fifty Capital District runner competed in the 88th running of the world's most prestigious marathon. If you would ask Professor Bick 'today if he will make number 13 next year he might say no, but once January comes around five ,gets you ten that he will have his plane reservations set for the Patriot's Day event. Cream of the Crop; Eric Hornick, WRUC Sports Director, announced that Wayne McDougall was selected as the WRUC Skating Dut· chman's top star. Finishing second and third respectively were Gill Egan and graduating senior Joe Caruso. Eric and yours truly selected three stars for each game and kept a running total throughout the winning winter. Toucll. c,f Class: The Empir~ Cup Hockey· Tournament is one of the nation's most prestigious tourneys and the Skating Dutchmen have been invited to participate in the November classic played at the Glens Falls Civic Center. Union will be the first American Div. Il team to play in the Empire Cup. Rounding out the field is Colgate, St. Lawrence and Vermont. All three are Div. I teams and both Colgate and St. Lawrence played in the ECAC Div. I playoffs while Vennont looks to rebound in 84-85 under new head coach Mike Gilligan. Big Brother: Skating Dut- chman Coach Charlie Morrison should be commended for his donation of nearly $200 in Wendy's meals to the Big Brothers-Big Sisters of Schenectady. For beinga guest on WRUC Coaches Corner, Morrison was entitled to a free meal for each appearance. At the season's end Morrison iil- structed WRUC to donate the meals to Big Brothers-Big Sisters. · Attention Democrats! TherewHI be a general me,etingof the Union :college Young Democrats Thursday, April19, 1984 4th fl. Lounge in carnegie, 7 p.m. • -Agenda--- 1. Voting for Secretary--voting position on executive board 2. voting for general voting position on executive board New Members Welcome Coming Soon: Chi Psi's 11th Annual Charity Party Friday, April 27 Dancing • Games • Food • Drink Proceeds are to benefit the National Hemophilia & Dystonia Foundations Costume/party theme to be announced Tickets On Sale Soon

Pagel2 CONCORDIENSIS, April/9, 1984 • • • win three straight Laxwomen Fighting Back By C. G. Sports Staff Coming off of two consecutive losses, the women's lacrosse team came back with three big ·wins this week; beating arch rival Skidmore, and trampling Castleton State and Russell Sage. The game against Skidmore . was a close and well played game. The Dutchwomen came from behind to win the game on a penalty shot in the last tw.o seconds, by a score of 8-7. The offense kept their composure throughout the game and never gave up, even when Union was behind. This was exemplified by Bonnie Faulkner's game winning goal under tremendous pressure. Cay Lynch . also played a strong game on of- fense. Credit must be given to goalie, Monica Lobel, who kept Union in contention. On Saturday, the varsity squad romped Castleton State 13-0; Union's first shutout of the season. Castleton, usually a very aggressive team, lacked skill, hustle, and concentration. The Dutchwomen took ad.- vantage of thiS. as the majority of the team scored goals, in- cluding four goals by defensive .players. Union totally dominated the game, allowing no more than five shots on goal by the Castleton offense. . Union trounced Russell Sage on Monday. Russell Sage, as usual, tried to compensate for their lack of skill by playing a rough game. But the Dut'\ chwomen were not easily in- timidated, and rolled easily to a 19-6. win. Jackie Tario and Bonnie Faulkner led the scoriilg drive, with four goals each. Lorna Rushforth had a strong game with three goals. Heidi Kahn mac;Je a fine varsity debut in goal. ~ This year's squad promises to be one of Union's most suc- cessful ever. They now stand at 4-2. Still looking forward to a game with the sun shining, the Dutchwomen will be playing their next home game on Athlete of the Week Bonnie Faulkner is leading the 4·2 lacrosse Monday, against Middlebury. team in scoring with eighteen goals. Dutchmen Nine Drop Two . ByT. B. Sports Staff Record Evens at 2-2 Last week the blazing Union Baseball Club cooled off and lost two games to bring their record down to .500 at 2-2. Cohan. Each had two hits in- Cluding three run home runs. Don Rowe pitched two strong innings, allowing only two runs (one earned) on three hits and four walks. Pete Cohan had two hits in- cluding a grand-slam home run, which at the time put the Dutch• men up by a score of 7-5. In the seventh, Alex Rita tied the :game at eight with a solo shot to right, but the Dutchmen could muster no more. rwts after that. Union, rained out of two double headers last weekend, will face RPI at home today. SPORTS HAPPENING.S .April.19-26 Thursday, 4119 Today! Baseball.-·v$ .. RPI, 3 p:m., Central Park Softball--at Rassell Sage, 3:30p.m .. Tennis\·at S'kidmore, 3 p.m. Friday 4/20 Women's. Lacrosse--at RP.I, 3:30p.m. Men's Lactosse--vs RPI, 8 p.m., Turf Golf--vs Skidmore, 1 p.m., Mohawk G.C. . Saturday 4/21 . Men's & Women's Outdoor T.rack··at Hartwick lnvy,9 a.m. Men's R.ugby--a.t Syracuse, 1 p.m. Monday4/23 G.olf-·vs Middlebury, 1. p.m., M.Ohawk G.C. Women's Lacr:osse--vs .Middlebury, 3: 30 p.m., Tu.rf Tuesday 4/24 Baseball··vs Harnnton., _3 p.m., Central Park Women's Track-~at Albany, B.inghamton,3p.m • Wednesday, 4/25 Baseball--at Colgate, 3 p.m. Men's Lacrosse--at Williams, 4 p.m. Softball--at Oneonta, 3:30p.m. Siena 23 HartwJck 10 -SCORE BOARD-· BASEBALL (2-2) Union 11 Unions MEN'S LACROSSE (3·3) St. Lawrence 16 Union 2 Oneonta 7 (OT) WOMEN'S LACROSSE (4-2) Union 8 Union 13 Union 19 SienQ 9 Albany9 Union 5 Hamilton6 Union 100 Union 100 Hamilton 93 Union 53 Union 8 . Union 14 SOFTBALL (0-2) TENNIS (1-2) MEN'S TRACK (3-1) . castleton 0 Russell Sage 6 Union 5 Union 7 Oneonta 4 Unlon3 HamiHon71 Middlebury 31 WOMEN'S TRACK (1-1) RUGBY (2-1) · Union53 Middlebury 29 Albany St. 0 Hamilton 0 The Dutchmen were. out- muscled against Division I Siena 23·11. Pitcher Ted Cannon put the Dutchmen in the hold early by allowing seven runs in the second inning. CanQon experienced major control problems walking four in the inning. Cannon commented, \Some pitchers like to throw to spots, others like to throw to zones, I like to throw to con- tin~nts!\ Drop A Second to Hartwick Union lost its second game in a row to Hartwick last Thur- sday. The Dutchmen were outslugged 10-8 and failed to capititalize as they · left 15 runners on base. J()e Wood pitched .. seven in- nings giving up eight runs on 11 hits. He yielded the mound to Nat Harris in the top of the eighth inning. Hartis absorbed the loss giving up two runs (one e~;~.med) on two hits. Rugby Gains Two Road Wins The bright spots for Union were John Moretti and Pete Union lost despite another . strong hitting performance. Record setting trackster Scott Remillard and the rest of the Dutchmen track squad will be back in action Saturday competing at the Hartwick 1 nvitationa I Meet. ByUCRFC Sports Staff Last week the Rugby Football Club bounced back from its opening day losses with strong victories against Albany State and Hamilton College, In four games, an awesome Garnet defense allowed a mere total of three points, while its offense . was busy tacking up the scores. In the club's first game of the week on Wednesday, at Albany State, the machine began its roll. Union's A team battled to its first. victory of the season with an 8..0 win. During the first half, with a bothersome wind against its face, the Garnet held back surge after surge by the tough Albany club .. Again and again the Union defense was ~there to make the big play to shut down the offensive on- slaught by the home team. Strong surging by the serum, good open field tackling by the line, gallant bursts by backs such as co-captain Steve Cole, and superb defensive kicking by fullback Scott Collins all made an impenetrable wall for the Albany attack to face. The second half brought a trading of sides which meant Albany had the task to meet what the Union defense met · earlier. Yet, the home sqilad lacked the endurance and skill to hold back the driving Garnet. With the wind at its back, the Union team effectively used its advantage through timely kicking to move its way on to victory. Soon after the halftime break, Union was on the roll. Flyhalf John Wilber put a foot on the ball placing it into a gap deep in Albany's end. After some loose ball play, forward Pete Ladd grabbed the ball, scrambled, and dove his way into the try zone for the winning score. Minutes later came the icing on the cake. This time it was Eric Serrilli breaking across the field and booting the ball down into Albany territory. After a serum-down, co-captain Doug Bawngarten broke from the pack on a keeper and put the ball d~wn for a second Union try. Hence, the A squad had its 8-0 victory. B side victorious as well . • . Following this game, :the Killer B's kept the machine in full gear as they pounded the Albany opponents by a score of 15~3. Without wasting time, the Garnet moved the ball down- field Dn its first possession. After a forward surge on a serum-down, scrumhalf Jeff Wilson scooped the ball up and broke through Albany defen· ders and the B squad was on the board. Matt Schambers con- verted and the Garnet was up by six. Before the half ended though, Albany took advantage of a Union penalty and cut their deficit in half With a successful penalty kick. . . As for the second half, Union's B team completely dominated play. With the pressure on the whole time, the visiting ruggers were able to capitalize for two .further scoring o:pportunities. Schambers split tbe uprights with a 31 meter penalty kick that was good for three points .. The Garnet's last score came on a break-away run by Tom Riley. After Schambers con- verted, the Killer B's had their first win of the season by a score of 15-3. Ruggers Travel ~o Clinton Victory was repeated by both squads as the Union RFC traveled to Hamilton College on Saturday. Taking the field after an impressive . showing by the Union Women's RFC, the A team had some trouble getting things in gear. The first twenty minutes were marked by sloppy line play. Yet the squad could not be held back for long. After a kick by Hamilton, Collins coming from the fullback position picked the ball up and broke through several tacklers before dumping off to Meade Summers. The burly rugger pitched;to Cole who relayed it on to Baumgarten who then took it in for a Union try. Schambers converted and the score was 6-0. From here on it was all Union. The Garnet completely dominated the second half. Of special influence was the powerful serum whic;h included the likes of Gene Gass, John Contintled on page 11 CXIII Biega with ad on carr: term 1>1 pornogr campo: variou1 nograp College' as stuc would U with tl issues. have Vl group r this spr As to wishes· film COl faculty, mediai1 of porn< It Willll of the shown J, petition fering l pornogr . Biega that t referen~ ballot tl this is1 student! theirop form of Ame1 was a1 meetin~ 15 sigm Appa reminis

>- -\' en c: E 10 ~ >- ..... ..... 10 -' >- .0 0 ..... 0 .c a. CXIU,· No. 21 ' I\ Union's President John Mo~ris was eleCted the Commission on 1 ndependent Colleges' chairman last March. • l Schenectady, New York April 2 6, 1984 President Morris Named Chairman of Commission By LINDA RAFFAELE Staff At the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities' (CICU) annual meeting last March,. Union's President John· Morris was elected the commission's chairman. The commission. is the organization of 123 in- dependent colleges and universities in New York State . The main job of the CICU is to represent the interests of the independent colleges in the state. According to Morris, \Its primary function is to make it an important state objective that through the provision -of student aid, students have the opportunity to attend the college of their choice.\ In accordance with this objective, the CICU helped in the establishment of TAP (Tuition Assistance Program) which helps New York State students attend colleges through student aid. In addition, tbe commission was instrwnental in gaining support for the Bundy Aid Program, a project that sup- plies finances to institutions of higher education. CICU for ten years, died sud- denly of a heart attack on April 16. \He will be sorely missed,\ says Morris. \He was a tremendous leader.\ The CICU's \primary function is to make .it an important state objective that ... students have the opportunity to attend the college of their choice.\ -President Morris STOP Has First Meeting Morris has been on the Board of Trustees of the CICU.for two years. In -his new rDle as chairman of the board, he will , be faced with many important decisions. The first problem facing him is to find a new As chairman of the board, a position which is held for two years, Morris will be a spokesman for independent colleges in the state. He replaces the Reverend James Finley, President of Fordha.'ll University in the Bronx. ByGA YLE ROSENFELD News Editor that some movies are unac- Continued on page 3 , president for the CICU. Henry Paley, who was president of the Just when everyone thought that the pornography issue on campus had been put to rest, up pops STOP, Students to Oppose Pornograpby. Last Thursday at 8 p.m., this organization held its first organiz~tional meeting in the student forum room in Carnegie Hall. Twenty two male and female students at- tended to present their views on this subject. Seniors Richard, Biegan and Sul!!an Stern presided over the meeting as proponents for STOP. One of the film committee's chairmen, Andrew Rosen, also atten~ed. was circulated among faculty members over the last few weeks or so. However, £ew faculty members were willing to sign the document be.cause of . its arbitrary nature. It reads as follo-wsc: ••we the undersigned oppose the . showing of por- nogr~pPic films on the campus of Union College.\ · Students Receive Aid- Upon the petition's failnre, Bieg,an !)_nd Stern turned to Profesaor of Political Science Byron Nichols for assistance. Nichols then drew up a more defined d<~c:w:nent with help from- B_!egan and Stern .. · This proposal reads as foll<~ws: It was officially announced by Governor Mario Cuomo Thursday that the state's Tuition Assistance Program would receive 48 million dollars in new funding, and, tbat 80 percent of the new financial aid would go to students at jn- dependent colleges and; universities. Executive Direct<1r Jeffrey Serafini, \The new Tuition Assistance Program, Qr TAP, rules were part of the com· promise reacbed in the legislatUre at the end of Mar- ch.\ The original proposal for increased aid known as the TAP Parity bill will get continued support next year, the lobbxist for students added. Said Mr. Serafini, \What we got this year was really the first year's worth ofthe four year TAP Parity bill, and if we want to accomplish STOP'S Role Biegan opened the meeting with a discussion of STOP's role on campus. The group's long term purposes are not to have pornographic films banned on campus, but to integrate various ideas on this por- nography issue into the College's administrative as well as student population. STOP would like to create a dialogue with the campus on these issues. Also, STOP wishes to have various members of its group run for forum positions this spring. As to short-term goals, STOP wishes to bear pressure on the film committee from students, faculty,- administrators, and the media in regards to the showing ~ of pornographic films at Union. .~ It will also protest the Showing E of the X-rated \Cafe Flesh,\ ~ shown last night, by circulating >- pet~tions on. campus and_ . of'- ~ fermg a umted front aga1nst .J pornographic films on campus. E; . Biegan and Stern also cited .g that they would like a _g referendum included on the o. b~llot. thiS' spring in regards to this ISSUe. r.rhey Would like students to be able to register their opinion on this issue in the form of a formal vote. A membership list for STOP was also circulated at the meeting and received an initial 15 signatures. Apparently a. petition, remihiscent of last term':S list, ''While we recognize that the larger American society may vary in its standards of judging and accepting por- nography in film, we believe Compromise Re.ached According to Independent Student Coalition (I~C) Students enjoying a class outdoors - not a common scene on campus recently due to Schenec- .. ta dy 's springtime weather. oor original goals we'll have to work very hard over the next three years-coming back to make our case each year until the TAP Parity campaign is finally won.\ This year's new law provides for an increase. in maximum TAP awards, going from the current $2,200 level to $2,700 begiiming this summer. Also part of the rule changes is an expansion of eligibility for aid, going from the current $25,000 maximum income to $29,000 net taxable annual income. Steve fuller, Chairperson .of the statewide student organization, was \happy\ with this year's TAP Parity effort. \We saw an 85 percent par- ticipation from our member campuses, with students writing thousands of letters and visiting a majority of the State Assembly representatives during Albany lobby days\ reported the Ithaca College senior. \We're happy that so many students decided to get involved this year-but we will have to do more next year,\ he cautioned. ' \Improve our Effort'' The decision to continue the TAP Parity effort will be made at the ISC's first meeting of the 1984-1985 academic year. \We're already planning out how we can improve our ef:.. fort,'' said the outgoing Chairperson. \At stake next year is $42,SOO,OOO in aid- the Phase Two funds for TAP Parity,'' he explained, \and a total of nearly $200 million of financial aid by the end of the TAP Parity cam- paign.\ The fall meeting is scheduled to take place in Albany on October 6, where next year's officers will also be voted on.

>- .!/! <11 c '§ ro ::i >- .... '- ro _J >- ;0 0 0 .c Cl. Pagel CONCORJJII~·Nsl.\: Apri/26. JWU AcUng Director of Schaeffer Library Ann Seemann discus5es new comrn ittees. ~Forum, Convenes By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor Union's Student Forwn has met twice this week because of a rescheduling of one of its meetings. Various issues were raised including whether or not the forum, with money from . Student Activities, should fund the Independent Student Coalition (ISC.). Committee Reports The meeting of April 18 began, as usual, with the committee reports. Chainnan of the Committee on Com- mittees (CoC) Jared Squires presented his report first. At the previous forum meeting, the CoC presented its bylaws to the forum for approval. Numerous corrections were cited. During the week' between forum meetings, the suggested amendments were made. A motion was then made by Squires to accept the bylaws. The motion . passed unanimously, 12 yes. Squires next reported that committee applications were available and that they were due April23. However, a recent mass mailing extended this deadline to this Friday (tomorrow) April 27. With the subject of appointments being addressed, Senior Represen- tative Mathew Nankin questioned why the ad- ministration \hand picks certain students to be on the special committees--i.e. the Telephone Advisory Board.\ Nankin believed that the ap- pointments should be a CoC decision. Squires responded by stating that these special committees were only tem- porary ad hoc committees, and thus, the administration could appoint students to them. Further discussion on the issue was expected at a later forum meeting. Assistant Chairtnan of the Finance Committee (FC) Andrew George presented tbe weekly finance report. At its April 15 meeting, the FC discussed the WRUC Advisory Board's suggestions as to how to handle Jeff Dince's call to England in order to interview the British rock group XTC. Crew Club had an object category adjustment, giving the group additional money in the travel expenses category. Photo Club used money from several different categories in order to purchase a slide printer (All \object category\ adjustments must be appl'oved by the Finance Committee). Lastly, it was announced that the total student activities budget request was $330,000 with an estimated total revenue of $244,000. The budget request figure does not include the requests .of student activities which have not submitted budgets. With the topic of unsubmitted budgets ''on the floor,\ a motion was made to allocate funding to the Sailing Club and Political Forwn. Their group heads were at the forum meeting to apologize for not hand~g their budgets in and to request funding for next year. This motion for funding of these two activities · also passed unanimously. At this point Mark Keller and Peter Holmes, of the Social Committee, discussed the purchase of a video system for the Dutch Hollow Pub. The deal would involve the Social Committee, the- Concert Committee,.. and Food Service, with each organization con- tributing a certain amount of money to purchase the equip- ment. A contract has been drawn up for the operation- maintenance of the system. Presently, the contract has not been signed by all of the required parties. The forum made some suggested amend- · ments to the pending contract. Keller planned on returning to the forum with the revised contract. ~ .Junior Class Representative Jacques Simon presented: the report of the Student Affairs Council (SAC). Simon an- notinced that the SAC had chosen the award winners from the senior class. A point was then raised as to the ef- fectiveness of the SAC's ac- tivities f()r this year. A di~?cussion ensued, with a decision lleing made to talk about the aforementioned topic at the next SAC meeting. The last committee report was given by Independent Student Coalftlon (ISC) Representative Steven Benson. No news was reported. After Benson's report, Senior Representative Matt Nankin questioned the forum's funding of the ISC which he termed as \a political organization.\ \Do . they not represent a particular political viewpoint--i.e. TAP parity? . . . Our funding of it seems hypocritical,\ said Nankin. ISC Funding Defended Benson responded by stating that the ISC \has been in existence since 1976.\ He fur- ther stated, \It has continually helped the students .... The ISC is a· student group.\ Further discussion ensued, with no real decision being made by the forum on the issue. The foeus of the meeting turned to \old business', and \new business\ each of which there was none. A motion· was then made to adjourn, and seconded. The forum met for its second time this past week on Monday, April 23. Before starting the meeting with the usual com- mittee reports, Junior Rodger Harris was introduced as the new IFC president (lie replaces Seni<>r Joe Bogan). With the announcement of Harris as the new IFC president, the Inter ·Fraternity Council (IFC) presented .. its report first. Presently, the :IFC is working on a proposal for an escort service. On Thursday, Library Looks to Future ByLYNNHANO Staff. As the facilities at Union expand and the different departments modernize, a question arises about · the library's .future plans. The goal of Acting Director of Schaeffer Library. Ann Seemann, and t'he rest of the library staff is to run the library as efficiently as possible and to allow patrons to obtain the best use out of the facility. In line with these general goals, two committees have been formed to investigate the possibility of improvements Twice Friday, and Saturday nights,. two people from each house will be stationed for the purpose of escorting girls home. The proposal is still in its planning stages. \Though the escort service was proposed as a volunteer measure, all of· the thirteen fraternities that were present at the last IFC meeting already approved it. We are hoping for it to start up two or three weeks from now,\ said Harris. In addition, theiFC will be featuring a workshop on house liability. Academic Affairs Representative (AAC) Jamie Danziger presented the AAC report. In addition to Mechanical Engineering Professor Richard Shanebrook 1 S recently approved course on nuclear energy, an additional course, \Nuclear Anns and Weapons Control,'' was approved. This course is to be taugbt primarily by Professor W .B. Martin of the chemistry department. AlthOugb both courses deal with the subjects ·of nuclear technology, the AAC decided that students would be able to take both courses, if interested. Images of the Sea \Images of the Sea/' the interdisciplinary course whi~h focuses on the many aspects of island life; has changed its course designation from a 'B' course to an 'F' course, since the focus of the course deals with engineering adaptations made toward island life. This course was also permanently approved. Junior Representative Jacques Simon presented the Student Affairs Council Report (SAC). At its last meeting, the SAC discussed defining its role as a campus body. \The SAC. is trying to find its specific niche in the campus community,\ added Sophomore Represen,. tative Chris Siler. The SAC also looked at changing the orien- tation advisors' roles to include an additional meeting with their OA groups, approximately three weeks after the fall term has begun, as a monitoring method. tastly, the S'AC looked at the responsibilities and . the possibilities of a student counselor; a specific person student& could go to for discussion of \sensitive'' matters. Chaittnan of the Committee on Comntittees, Jared Squires, presented the CoC report. With the acceptance of the bylaws, the CoC has focused its at~ tentionto the going over of four new collStitutions. In addition, Sophomore Anthony Valenti of the. Athletic Liason Committee presented a report .of the committee's ac- tivities to date. Th~ Athletic Liason Committee meets once every tel,'m. At its last meeting, the committee discussed the Alwnn.i Gym problem(s), those areas of the building which need renovation and improvement I ' Continued on page 3 in space and the addition of automation for the library. The library is also continuing its gradual switch .from the Dewey Decimal System to the much more el[pansive Library of Congress system. These plans and gradual changes are designed to keep the College's library . modern and well-run. The Space Committee was formed to identify the best ways to utilize the space in the library. Seemann says that \it became apparent in the fall that there was a space problem especially regarding the book stacks.\ In December 1983, the committee was organized with Liza Duncan. as. chairperson and several Union librarians and Ubrary staff persons as members. The committee has two essential functions: (1) To look at the situation and assess. the amount of space available and (2') To get an estimation for the future. The estimation is that in three to five years the, library will be short- of space. . The committee must now determine its plan of action in the interim. Duncan and the committee wrote a charge explaining that their goal is ''to describe the existing IUld projected space constraints with respect to: (a) Available expansion room in the present building, (b) American Library Association (ALA) standards for student study space, (c) Weight restriction, (d) Fire and safety regulations and (e) Correct environmental conditions.'' Seemann says that the committee is interested in making practical recom- mendations to remedy the present situation. The Automation Comntittee wasalsoformedlast December. Like the Space Com.Iil.ittee it is comprised of. Union librarians and library staff as members. Under the direction of the Chainhan of the Automation Committee, Bruce Connolly, the committee's charge is two-fold: (1) ''To explore possibilities for automation according to the needs within the library and to recommend priorities and solutions for library automation'' and (2) \To coordinate library automation planning with computer ser- vices at Union: a proposed &- year-plan and its on-going revisions together with the other automation related campus and external com- mittees.\ The library is already automated in several internal areas which is only accessible to the staff. Cataloguing is all done on the computer, whereby all the descriptive material about the College's library books are kept on file·. Acquisitions are also automated allowing ·for int~rlibrary loan functions and ordering books to buy tbra.ugh the compute.r. Lastly, theJibrary has a serials pilot project which is an on-line- access to magazines, but.this is not being used yet because it .still .needs to be debugged. Currently, the committee is invest~ating the use of automation in the public func- tions of the library. It has come up with two alternatives which are alternatives .for the future. Seemann emphasizes that these are only possibilities at this stage and are in noway definite. The first possibility is· an On- Line Public Access Catalog, OPAG for short. OPAG would take the place of the card catalog and offer many more advantages. It wo·uld work essentially the Same way as the card catalog; a user would enter either the author or the name of the oook and the computer would indicate whether the library had the book. The advantage of having it on a computer is, in addition to saving space, an operator does not have to be in the library to obtain this in- {()rmation. ·The terminals throughout campus will be able \It became apparent in the fall that there was a space problem, especially regarding the b~ok stacks,\ in Schaeffer Library. ·Ann Seemann to access this same in- formation. The second possibility is a more complicated Automated Circulation System. With this system, the user will not only be able to find out if the library has the book, but if :it is on the shelf or whether it has been ~checked. out. \The circulation desk/' · Seemann says,.\ would find this system especially useful.\ The other change taking place in the library, the conversion from the Dewey Decimal system · to the Library of Congress system, has been occurring slowly for th~ past 7 years. The Dewey Decimal system is fine for libraries with small collections, put the Library of Congress system, which utilizes both numbers and letters, is infinitely expansive, and therefore, is better for large collections. The reason this\' conversion takes so long is that each book is inspected individually by either Seeman and-or Assistant Librarian Evans. The deciSion is then made as to whether to keep the book and-or whether it is r~re or whether it is part of a special collection: The books are then reclassified using the OC-LC, a national bibliographic data base which provides many academic libraries with on line cataloging. Using the data base, the switch is less costly and quicker. Still because each book must be observed by hand, it is a very slow process; and. it Will be several years until this project is completed. Attention to All Photographers The Annual .Photo Club Pho·tography Contest will be held on May 5 at the Nott Entrfes may be black and White or color. Limit of 5 entries per person. All en- tries must be mounted. Deadline: May 2nd. Bring your photographs to Mrs. Marra, Carnegie Hall - H Du manJ askec oralt past evalu impo facult by th PrE three au, prep~ chair irres1 positi M01 revie1 the s1 Thisr meml siderE years teach dis cUI COIIlli senior fnom and < larJ;!e. The third- accorc the E Profe~ Institt Mana1 memb As Sc yearr proble memb attem1 Conset both t memb needec Sclum offeec accur profes classrt Thu evalua revie' com.1n evalm peers There ferenc comm: old st; being are t: writte profes interv comm twenty contac third-:y OncE have reviev analy~ trends 01 Pt PE SE 19 PI o· D Tl PI cc d4 SC Dt

CONCORDIENS/S, April 26, 1984 Review System Explained By JAN BARAN Associate News Editor . During the .past· few weeks, many Union students have been asked to give written and-or oral evaluations of one of their past professors. These evaluations are part of an important process caHed faculty review and are conducted by the FacUlty Review Board. Presently, the board oversees three types of review. First of au, merit evaluations are prepared by the ·· department chairmen twice a year, irrespective of the rank or position .of the faculty member. Spuing Term More jmportantly,_thitd-year reviews are conducted during · the spring term of every year. This process reviews all faculty members w.M could be con- sidered for tenure in three years. The faculty members' teaching techniques· are discussed and analyzed by a committee consisting of. five senior ·faculty members, one from each academic division and one faculty member at- large. The primary objective of the third-year review system, according to the Chairman of the Faculty Review Board, Professor Josef Sc:bm.ee, of the- Institute of Administration and Management, is for the faculty member to receive feedback. As Schmee stated, the third year review system \identifies problems, . if any, with faculty members' performances and attempts to correct . them.\ Consequently, feedback from · both the peers (fellow faculty members) aqd tbe student's is needed to complete the process. Schmeenotes that the two kinds of feedback are vital so that an accurate picture · of the professor's performance in the classroom can be obtained. Student Input lni.portant Sclunee noted, if a significant number of the students state that the professor needs to be more clear in his course ob. jectives, then the committee will recognize that the professor bas a serious problem in this area. In conducting this analysis, the committee is careful in not placing too much emphasis on the grudge of any particular student. The students' perspective in,volves three aspects, ac- cording to the review board chairman. First of all, the students can connn1ent on the \clarity of idea$'' pJ.,\esented. Does the. professor talk in viscious circles or is he direct and to the point? In addition,. the students are best able to jud,ge whether a particular professor motivates them to learn. Finally, the students can state if a professor has challenged them. Schmee points out that this is where Union \students have .a vital say in the future of the College.\ It is up to the studeflts Whether they choose to participate. Often simultaneously With the student evaluation process, senior facUlty members also give their opinions on the professor. Generally, these opinions are formed as the result of personal contact with the professor or visits to his classes. The faculty perspe-ctive is important to the overall review process because the other professors know if the reviewed professor's teaching methods are up-to-date. After both faculty and student ev-aluations of the faculty metnber have been conducted, the committee then makes a final analysis ·Of all the views and reports its findiilgs to the professor. Occasionally, these findings have led only to a one- year contract renewal. Other times a professor has been granted a full .contract renewal on the condition that the feedback must help his per- formance. Sclunee noted that sometimes \100 percent im- provement at the six<vear Thus, the students' tenUr-e session has been seen evaluations weigh heavily in the after an effective third-year reviewing process. Schmee review session was conducted.\ commented, ''When it comes to The final, and perhaps most evaluating the faculty, the important, function.of the Union peers can only say so much.'' Faculty Review Board is the Therefore, before any con- six-year review system. During ferences are held, the review the sixth year of teaching, each committee randomly contacts professor up for tenure will be old students of the professor the· subject of a six-year review being evaluated. The students in the fall term. Structurally, are then asked to submit these reviews are similar to the written statements on the third-year evaluations except professor and~or attend an the examination of the interview with the review professor is much more in- committee. Approximately tensive. Many more students twenty to thirty students are are contacted, and the review is contacted in this way for each conducted campus-wide instead third-yel;ir review. · of within the department alone .. Once the student evaluations The consequences of a sixth- have be(:)n completed, the year review are also far review committee then greater. If a tenure slot is open, analyzes the responses for a successful professor in the trends and consistencies. As sixth-year review proce~ may On April 13, the Board of Trustees ap.- . · proved the appointment of the following persons as chairmen for the period September 1/ 1984 through August 31, be asked to. be tenured. Sjnce tenure is a life appointment, the evaluations of this process are. taken very seriously by the Faculty Review Board. Concluding Comment Professor SChmee had one conchiding conunent on the students' part in faculty reviews: \The review com- mittees need students to show up for interviews, give clear pictures of the professors' teaching performances., and thus participate in this vital process of faculty selection.\ Ct:lairr:nan of the Faculty Review Board Josef Schmee explains faculty review process atUnion. Campus Audience Sought Continued from page 1 ceptable for showing at Union College. Specifically, we are opposed to the show~g of $1DY movie on campus involving graphic human sexual activity . Whose ACTORS include children,. animals, or adults who have been coerced into sexual performance for film; Whose CONTENT is the explicit portrayal of · sexual activity in which one or more pf the participants is presented as the object of sexual assault, human inferiority, or physical violence-or in which sexual· activity Involving assault, in- feriority, and violence is depicted as normal, healthy, and accepted; Whose PURPOSE in being screened on campus is public titilation, audience arousal,· or libidinal enjoyment rather than a presentation of artistic ac- complishment,. education, or moral instructi()n.\ With this document in hand, STOP hopes to acquire more signatures from campo$ members who question the showing of pornographic films at Union. The meeting consisted of more than just an organizational nature. The students who attended threw out various ideas and views on this issue and also alternative tactics to better enlighten the campus. · However, STOP claims that it does not want to ban por- nographic films on campus. \The purpose is not so mucb to ban them,\ said Biegan \but there has to be a discussion about it (pornographic fibns shown on camp u.S).\ The em- phasis was on informing the College about the detrimental effe.cts of these filmS. \People should find out what these films do;. why some people think they are bad,\ added Biegan. At about 8:30 p.m. that night, a male then saw fit to throw some magazine photos, reminiscent of \ Hustler\ magazine and the like; .along with various written statements; and a xeroxed copy of a revised' version of Biegan's letter to the editor; into the room where STOP was deliberating. This man was also brave enough to run away af- terwards. Undoubtedly, he was also part of the entourage who plastered Strauss Lounge with \The role of the •.chairman of a committee is not to choose what he likes, but what the community ·wants.\ -Film Committee Chairman Andy Rosen similar signs and photos that evening and also made signs pointing to Straus.!;) Lounge as the location of the STOP meeting rather than the forum room. One of these pieces of literature left behind by these \brave yowtg men\ reads as follows: \Wednesday April 25th. Don't miss 'Cafe Flesh' and orgy afterwards at---- - Bring your friends. Bring your rubbers.\ An ad· dress was written in this blank space, but it does no' 11eed .to be repeated here. . After this brief clltldish in- cident, Biegan continued the meeting. He noted, \I would consider it a victory if everyone at Union College knew what pornography meant,\ but they ·do not. The group believes that the campus conununity does not understand pornographic films' implications. Sophomore Thomas Haven added that he would like to see the College's faculty take a stand on this issue. It was his belief, along with other STOP members, that some faculty members have influence on student opinion. Senior Daniel Lindy warned against alienating other members of the campus if STOP were to prove too over- bearing on this issue. Junior Lora Nelson added, \It might just promote agression\ if STOP were to .protest \Cafe Flesh\ while it was being shown. Where to find an audience for STOP was the question here. The group decided that appealing to students who have already bought their tickets to ''Cafe Flesh\ would be less than ef- fective. With these conunents made, STOP finally decided to opt for petition signing and posters before the film which occurred last Wednesday. The group met last Monday in Carnegie to further organize itself. After the meeting broke for the night, Rosen, Biegan and Stern threw out some of their opinions on the matter. Said Biegan, \We (STOP) have to start getting a program\ together where people learn about the effects of por- nographic films on the public. Rosen noted that fi1-ns such as \Dirty Harry\ and the like may have detrimental effects on its viewers being a violent picture, but no one protested its showing on campus. Added Rosen, \The role of the chairman of a committee is not to choose what he likes, but what the com- munity wants. If three quarters of the campus didn't want pornography (films) on the campus, I probably wouldn't show it.\ Funding Raises Questions Continued from page 2 · In addition, the committee Club, Electronic Music Club, meeting, the Board of Trustees discussed varsity, junior Volleyball Club, Union Lam- discussed several issues in- varsity and intramural sports poon, and Salling Club;-8ailing eluding the appointment of programs at Union. As for the Club has already promised Professor Edward Craig as the role of the committee, Valenti delivery of its budget, new dean of engineering. The adds, \As a student on the however). Five hwtdred dollars position was created because of committee I see myself as one was transferred from the Social problems with the ABED ac- 1987: Peter To.biessen Dwight Phaup David Hannay who relates information and Committee's budget to the credidation. Admissions Biology provides a student athlete's Senior Fling's budget. Gamet statistics for the class for 1988 view.\ requested$1500 in its budget for were given. The 1984-1985 \ Econo-mics Associate Chairman of the next year to pay for student budget was approved. Lastly, El t · 1 E 1 Finance Committee Andrew labor. That and the Big the new college center plans . ec . r 1 C a . n g · George presented the Finance Brothers-Big Sisters request for were discussed by the trustees. C om.p .u t e r SCi · Committee's (FC) report. $8500 for a new car are Construction for the new college Donald Thurston His tory George reported that six currently being investigated. center is slated to begin 1987, D ·av'ld Pea·k PhySics student activities have not Lastly, the question of fun- with AlwnniGym construction turned in budgets for next year ding the ISC with Student scheduled to begin in 198«). ~~F~re~~d~~~·~r~k~k~H~a~r~t~w~-~ia~=~P~o~l~1t~Jc~a~·~1~S~c~1e~n~c~e~~~{I:~:e:h:c:~=~c=a:~:r:•:·~s:~:-:~~h M~~~~s~~~d .B~~~~~~~~ .- - the FC meeting. Instead of business\ to discuss, the focus I' The Arts Department is conducting a Third Year Evaluation for Assistant Professor of 1he Arts, Leatrice Mendelsohn.. Anyone wishing to add comments to the department's discussion regarding Professor Men- delsohn's teaching, scholarly activity, and college service is invited to ·do so, in person or in writing. Contact Professor Charles N. Steckler, Arts Department .. trying to reach a decision, the of discussion turned to \new FC recommended that the ISC business.\ The election of class Representative Steven Benson officers was discussed. Though be present at the next FC a discussion ensued, Jared meeting to discuss the usage of Squires made a motion to table the ISC funds.- it until next week, when a The last committee report decision could be reached. The was presented by Junior Shari motion passed .unanimously. Midoneck, one of the two A motion was made to ad· student trustees, At its last journ, and then seconded.

FAST SERVICE we can save you $ 1'\.VO IWL~I£5 ll~ll. flii:O\JT iO ~EAT u-P A L ITT I.. E. Grll'f ! so N6 nnA St\¥6.-' \1llE.. t:n\Y AGAIN~ . AIIID lt~Ml)oli.ll.; I<.IOS- ~ rlz.-t.A IS GQOD F-oR 'Y~v ! tl-1!:. GOO I> fi\Z.l- A> 1\'11\N WI~'- I!£ :1£1..1..\N (,. fOOP Q J)ftllll:.:; AT DIIVII>SoN r£.1\GI-\ \' ~;oo AND v,.t:;.;.r \''-l-P !li\ q:oo 'Till~ w£~1:-~>IP The Ga.ming Association presents: The Quest For The Orb A Dungeons & Dragons Tournament Sunday, April 29th 1 p.m. • 1st Fl. Humanities Bldg. To register contact John Stewart (x6974) All are invited to attend TIIDlKDTG ABOUT SUMMER ••• COLLEGE? - . TRINK ABOUT L.I.U. L.I.U.-C.W. POST L.I.U.-BRENTWOOD L. I. U.-SOUTII.An/IPTON More than 1200 undergraduate and graduate courses, intensive institutes and workshops, Festival of the Arts, (workshops, master classes, performances). For a copy of the COMBINED BULLETIN listmg offenngs at all 3 Campuses telephone '-\\\\'\\= L.I.U.-C.W. POST ..•.•..•... 1516) 299-2431 For Information regarding the Campuses listed below, telephone L.I.U.·BRENTWOOD ................... (516)273-5112 L.I.U.·SOUTHAMPTON ................. (516) 283-4000 CD OR MAIL COUPON . - ·····--··-·----··-- 1' SUMMER SESSIONS OI'I'ICE c I 1 Long Island University 1 I C.W. Post Campus I I GREENVALE, N.Y. 11548 I' I N arne Please send I 1 Summer '84 Bulletin for 1 Add 0 c. vi. Poat 1 ress 0 Brentwood . I 0 Southa.mpton I I City, State, Zip . l&m 1nterastfld in Doay I 0 Evening or 0 Weekend I I Phone( J 0 Undet•graduo.te I An Equal Opportunity 1 Af!lrmatlvo Aotton Inotttution 0 Gr&dua.te ......................... CONCORIJ/f:'NSIS, Apri/26. 198./ Arts Club Elections Sunday, Apr. 29 8:00p.m. Mem·orial Chapel. All members and prospective . · members are invited to watch the Arts fes-tival '84 rehearsal following the election. ,., ~····.·~ Tune In To SPORTS LINE Every Wednesday 11 p.m.-midnight WRUC 89.7FM STEREO STUDENTS $$$SAVE$$$ Ecstasy llair Design Quality Precis ion-- Latest Techniques in Haircare & Design Students save $3 on Haircut $1 0. on Pernt Located next to P&C in Sheridan Plaza off Rosa Rd. &Gerling ·st. ~ Call346-5529 Come ~ iJncl d\oln Uf f , __ Jive. .E?Zter-b£h mMi' ·c nr on /clur~ .. Pr£~ t-h. -t'.k~ ih,.~ ~d . ·- d-51 off a~ LJ~jfe.N / . #~ A? 'm ~~»N,. !Jtf., n.d'~ . • Delta Gamma's Annual OLYMPICS Are Com i.ng Soon! Don't mi·ss the fun-· May 19th; 1984_ Get Your Team Together NO WI 5 Guys & 5 Girls Any Questions? Call 382~9735 - 1 Th .and· anyv the J at 8! othe map Fom Rive sidia ·Com COffi) you 1 Burr DESl come Burri (10 o: rec01 beca1 size t varie (or Sauce Potat The avail~ defini itself. COS 'I cents Neith local LOCA previc displa one e Cir s~ I lVm have fun, s1 the ! while grow group Interr main and c servit raiser Circle throu~ terclu gettin: from, of the Uni1 many few ·o Starv Mara' Flowe Cours WeekE K als event~ Parae and F In tl engag1 activit Howe' geogr~ eludes -

CONCORD/k~NSJ~: Apri/26, /984 Page 5 FEATURES . . ~ .. - ...... The Allure of a Burrito By MATT NANKIN Staff The greatest late-night snack _and taste sensatiop, to be found anywhere is now available at the AM-PM Arco Mini Market at 80 Nott Terrace. It is none other than the Burrito manufactured by Butcher Boy Food Products, Inc.,. of Riverside California, a sub- sidiary of the Atlantic Richfield ·Company. The following is a complete guide· to everything you need to know to enjoy the Burrito ta~te sensation. DESCRIPTION: The Burrito comes in two sizes: Poquito Burrito (5 ox.) and Jumburrito (10 oz.). For beginners, I would recommend the Poquito because it is only the smaller size that comes in four delicious varieties: Pizza, Beef with Red (or Green) Chili, Barbecue Sauce, and Chunky Beef and Potato (my personal favorite)-. The J:umburrito · is only available in Chunky Beef and is definitely a hearty meal unto itself. , COST: The Poquito Burrito is 89 cents and the Jumburrito $1. 78. Neither price includes state or local tax. LOCATlON: The Burrito was previously kept chilled in the display case to the far right as one entered the Mini Market. Circle K: Gradually they started being moved' into the · frozen food section,_ which does not impair the taste but does affect the length of time required for our next category. · COOKING: There is a special microwave oven available at the Mini Market just for the Burrito. Previously, chilled Burritos required two minutes in the microwave but frozen ones need at least 3-4 minutes to be cooked adequately. Always keep them in the wrapper whi,le cooking-especially since the ll)icrowave at the Mini Market often resembles a hospital germ incubator. BEWARE: The microwave is sometimes out of order and can never be fixed until the next morning since the indivlduals who work at the Mini Market are just not that intelligent. EXTRAS: Official Burrito napkins are available right next to the microwave. The napkins. may be used to place the Burrito into a plain brown paper bag. CAUTION: • Burritos can be very hot and should never be eaten without plenty of. beverage within easy reach. EATING: Burritos should be eaten as follows: Open the bag, then the wrapper, and by starting at one end proceed along the length of the Burrito until the entire food has been Service and Socials By JEFFREY CHESS ~Wouldn't it be a great idea to have a club which combined fun, social activities and helped the school and community, while helping its members to grow as well? Well, such a group is already here! Circle K International is a club whose main aim is to help the school and community by sponso:r;ing service projects, and fund raisers. In addition, there are Circle K's at many schools throughout the area,. so in- terclub events which include getting to know Circle K' ers from other schools is also part of the club's goals. Union Circle K has sponsored many events on campus. Just a few ·of them are: Freshmen Starvation . Kits, Dance Marathon, :Valentine's Day Flower Sale, Speed Reading Course, and the Parents' Weekend Square Dance. Circle K also helps out at campus events such as Homecoming Parade, Alumni Phonathon, and Fitzhugh Ludlow Day. In the past, the club has not engaged in as many interclub activities as were possible. However, Capital Division (a geographic section which in- cludes eight Circle K clubs) is n9w under the leadership of Lieutenant Governor Jeffrey Chess, who plans to have frequent interclub activities, as well as parties and dances at The Rafters. Other Circle K's in the area are located at: Skid- more, Siena, Russell Sage, Albany College of Pharmacy, SUNY Albany, College of St. Rose, HVCC, and Adirondack · C.C. Basically, if the members are interested in interclubs, they can be a very frequent thing. Being an international organization, Circle K sponsors several conventions throughout the year, around the state, and one international convention. These conventions are a great time for meeting students from all over the state (and in- ternational) , as well as learning about the organization. Any students who are in- terested in joining Circle K or just finding out about it. can come to a meeting on Wed- nesday nights at 7:00 in the 4th floor lounge of Carnegie, or contact one of the club officers: Pres. John Rusnica, 37G-6957, V.P. David Dworkin, 37G-6451, Treas. Robert Gross, 370...fi617, Sec. Meg Egan, 370-6492, LTG Jeffrey Chess, 370-6957. .1984 Hunger Walkath·on April29 Registration at 1 p.m. The lOk walk starts at 2 p.m. at Linton High School. If you cannot walk, be a sponsor. Sign up at the table in Carneg.ie Lobby or at the Campus Min is try Off ice: 370-6087. Concerned for the Hunger, Inc., will send 40% to Crop and In- ternational Rel.ief and Deve.lopment Agency and 60% will go to local··agencies in Schenectady. consumed. Do not be alarmed if you happen to see items within the Burrito that are not easily id~ntifiable. It is all part of the natural flavoring. AFTERMATH: Always remember to wipe your mouth with the official Burrito napkin after consumption. Luckily, the smell of a cooked Burrito lingers happily in the air for hours after it has been con- sumed. I t On one final note, remember that Burritos are extremely addictive. I currently conswne 10-12 Burritos per week, but am trying to cut down. Being a Burrito addict is not an easy life, but it is·an exciting one. It requires running out .to the Mini Market at all hours of the late night and early morning to feed a cruel habit.. However, it is the exhilaration of eating that special Burrito that makes each encounter special. The Burrito- a food for today, for tomorrow, for always. Dean Ilene Kaplan states her perspective on women at Union. Success of Women At Union :By ILYSSE FEINGOLD Staff Although Union seems to be more conscious of sex roles, and more aware of women related issues, women at Union do not seem to be suffering from discrimination. The eon- sciouspess movement is due to the need and will to expose and enlighten the mainstream to a woman's changing status on campus.. The first influx of women to Union wa11ted to be integrated and assimilated with as few disturbances as possible. Their interest was to draw little attention to themselves; they hoped to blend ''into the woodwork.\ Even though Union has accepted women since 1970, women today finally feel welcomed. In part, this·positive attitude stems from the con- fidence projected by a woman herself. Mrs. Lorraine Marra, the Coordinator of Student Organizations, who has been at Union since the school became co-educational, believes that women did not view men as a threat but instead felt as if they themselves proposed a threat. For a while, they experienced their appearance as an in- trusion. The presevering nature that Mrs. Marra has observed in Union women encouraged their assimilation. According to Mrs. Marra, the atmosphere at Union College has always been conducive to equality. She feels that women at Union have fostered a more collective at- mosphere and more unified student body. She comments that the caliber and character of the female student has always been comparable to the male students, however females seemed affected by the ingrained idea that women were not \supposed to\ excel men. From her point of view, \there Party A Success By JON GARFUNKEL a11d JOHN QRAKE Delta Phi's 7th Annual Suitcase Party was on9!e again a success. A fun time was had by all, especially senior Lenny McAlister and his date Nancy who won the tropical trip for two to Freeport, Bahamas. The couple left Sunday morning for a 3-day, 2-night exotic ex- . cursion, and the $450 prize money accompanied them to a fantastic vacation. Lenny said to his date Nancy as they climbed into the \Silver Streak\ which rushed them to their awaiting, airport-bound limousine, \I can't believe we won.'' Nancy replied nervously, \I'm going to lose my job.\ \Who cares,\ said Lenny. Delta Phi pledge Mark Simonelli grudgingly but graciously accepted his second place prize of a $50 dinner of his choice. The main attraction . of the evening was the band. Acclaimed in the Boston Globe as the- \most energetic band in Bostori, '' the - Memphis Rockabilly Band rocked the Girling Center until the fuses blew. As Howard, the U. C. physical plant representative, said to party-goer Gigi Bruggeman, \In all my years at Union College, I've never experienced something like this.\ Despite the new school policies which threatened the annual event, the required van transportation and early start of the party didn't deter the Bahamas-bound hopefuls from enjoying a liquid. time. Delta Phi would like to thank everyone · who attended and gave it their best shot for the prestigious prizes. The in- famous \cold chili dog\ prize went to Delta Phi brother Dave Ventura .for being the first one eliminated. Next year the party will be bigger and better than ever. Ck kk >tr.c · \'I\::::=Jol\lil\l\=· :::· =xac:::· ==·xPIKH==::ocJC:::: PARENT'S WEEKEND were never designated male and female activities, and there never will be! \ On the other hand, Ass_gfiate P_rofessor of Psychology Rudy Nydegger comments that even though women at Union are more assertive now, \women have equal opportunities but not respect.\ He feels that female students are more complacent now than they were in the 70's. This is illustrated by their rejection of militant and energic activism. Personally, Professor Nydegger acknowledges women's small gains but fears that they might interpret these gains as elimination to the segregation problem. For example, he seems surprised to women's subdued reaction to the showing of pornographic films on campus. Professor Nydegger notes that his rapport with men and women is equally as good and he supports the faculty's acceptance of both sexes. The most prominent sighted change is the sensitivity to non-sex language. An essential concern which Professor Nydegger would like to see changed is the \respect for people independent of their sex.'t However, Dean llene Kaplan, Associate Dean of Faculty and Assistant Professor of Sociology, feels that the lack of respect is an individualized experience and a state of mind more than anything. Since students are accustomed to identifying a male in the role of professor, it requires an ad- justment to give women this recognition. Dean Kaplan seemed proud of the three women professors eligible for tenure this year. This is the largest number of female faculty recognized for tenure in Union's history. Dean Kaplan stresses that in hiring the faculty there is no difference in qualifications depending upon the sex. She feels that the women faculty is as strong as the men faculty. Although she would like to still add to the nwnber of women teaching at Union, Dean Kaplan describes the existing female faculty as \an articulate group which she hopes will continue.\ She believes that the women faculty's strength is exemplified in \the scholastic teaching ability shown in the number of merit awards given to women at all ranks!\ \' ltl .~ ..t:: u QJ c: .c: Q. 10 0 >- .0 0 +- 0 .s::. 'l.

Page6 Dutch Hollolv Pub HAPPY HOUR ('ON( 'ORD/t'NSIS, Aim'/26. 198.J St(Jrt Your Weekend Right! Special Prices on Fridays Between 5 and 7 p.m. Bogart Nigh1, Tonight, Thursday, April 26. Sponsored · lly the Pub and Gordon's, ''maker of fine gin & vodka.'' FRE~E ·Door Prizes an.d great Drin·k Specials. You mCJke tfle night SPECIAL! We will honor competitors' ads at the Pub (or match them as best we can.~ Bring in an ad tor another estC!blish· ment, give it to the Pub manager, and start the special for the night! ·9-11.:30 { ~ '\l. . )areer.cr. LAWYER'S · .: THE 8(J•H ASSISTANT The Lawyer's Assistant ;~:;=; Program at Adelphi University I;' the and oldest ABA-approved program of its kind in New York State, with more than 4,000 graduates. Salaries at all levels have increased with the extraordinal)' growtbofthis profession, and top lawyer's assistants earn as much as $32,000. Come To an lnfonnatletn.Seulon and Learn: ••• Why 85% of our gradt.utes who seek paralegal employment have found It . • •• Why hundreds of lawyers and other employers send us their requests for our graduates ••• Why Adelphi graduates have been hired by more than 650 law firms, corporations and govern· mental agencies throLJghout the greater New York metropoUtan area. Courses offered in: GARDEN CITY, L.l., HUNTINGTON, L.l., and MANHATIAN. For a catalog and an invitation to the next information session, rnail this coupon today, ortelephone right now: (516) 663·1004 ~~~~~~~~------4- Adelphl Unhrenlty Garden City. Ll .. tU'. 11530 In cooperation Widl The National Center for Peralegal Training. ADRJIIII Na~ . CA.UTION: We will not honor any \gi.ve away\ ads G.irl,s: Derby Day Team events begin on May 10! Submit your team rosters to Si,gma Chi as soon as possible Spring Term is Party Ti!rm! ·- Come Pa.rty at the 47th Annual Delta Upsilon's ·''50's Pa,rty\ on A·pril28t,h 10 p.m-? Fabulous SO's attire required Leather and steel recommended ·,..._WELCOME ............. to 711U.Ler cuJne- WPI X and the Concert Committee present EDDIE· MONEY w/specia I guest at Proctor's Theater -May 13 at 8 p.m .. · Students $8 Tickets on sale today at the Box Office ..------------..----COUPON-----------------------, c 0 u p 0 N 12-CUT CHEESE PIZZA ONLYS3.99 Add 85¢ per toppings (mushrooms, peppers, pepperoni, sausage, onions, anchovies, black olives, ham, etc.) 372-6599 MICHAEL ANTHONY'S PIZZERIA 838 · Eastern Avenue OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK (Salads~ Subs, Chick Wings also available) *WE DELIVER* c 0 u p 0 N '--------------COUPON------------------' Juniors- Given a year · ·and $10,000 \Nhere 'N.Ould you go and 'Nhat 'Nould you do?· If you have some ideas, plan to apply . for the . Thomas J. Watson · . Traveling Fellowship. If you can't think of . anything to do with all · · that timl! and money, keep t . • I . rymg. Watch fDr further · information. - - ( wo SO( pel ye~ 11 tha Pr< res Hu e:xl in SB'Ii WOl Ho' poi the re~ abc Gif of· El' pro Uni ne' tho, for pro wit! job: and eng pro of 1 anc rea sta• thei T \He affE inte sai< Vie: libe mo, ver· add Pol! mit Hill inl Ir gra' no 1 cou: abo pol1 gr01 radl add wen you hocl Tl disc syst that the: Cou ffiU< upp1 inv~ A win aw~ esp4 basl spri CoU Alii join Da~ oft1 1. Tl suru Jac: the froli shiJ

CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/26, 1984 Page 7 ,, l..ife At Union By DIANNE PAVACIC On Tuesday, AprillO~ eleven women alumni discussed their social and classroom ex- periences during·· Union's first years of co-education. Most of the women agreed that they were treated with professionalism and with respect in the classroom. Karen Huggins '77 said, ''I never experienced any discrimination in attention or grading. They saw us as career oriented women and treated us equally.\ However, Kathryn MUllaney '74 pointed out that ''It was still in the faculty's minds that women really weren't that serious about their stumes.'' Catherine G1fford·'83 agreed. She was one of five women enrolled in the Electrical Engineering program while she was at Union. She said that \The newer professors (meaning those that had been ·in industry for a.Iong time and then became professors) had always worked with male engineers at their jobs and they would look at us and say 'you'll never be . an engineer'.\ There were a few problems with this with the five of us but they were dealt with and once those professors realized that we were here to stay and coUld do the work, there were no more problems.\ The responses to th~ question \How did the politics of the era affect your life at Union\ were interesting. The 1974 graduates said that \with the end of Vietnam approaching, sexual liberation and the women's movement escalating, we were very active. Amy Titus '75 added, \I was President of the Political Social ActiQn Com- · mittee, worked up on: Hamilton Hill with the poor, participated in marches and in boycotts.\ In contrast, the 1978 graduates said that \there was no politics, no pioneering. We couldn't get . an~one excited about anything. \If you sup- ported any of these . political groups you were labeled as a radical.\ Karen Huggins '77 added, \The only politics that went on in my class were: Are you pro hockey or anti- hockey!\ There was also a great deal of discussion about the fraternity system. Linda Burns '75 said that she had been friends with the head of the Inter;..Fraternity Council. She said that ''He was much against co-education. The upperclass men didn't want us invading their turf-they wanted an all 8 male college Monday through Friday and on the weeken$ wanted to go to Skidmore for parties. It wasn't until. those men graduated tbat Union really become coed.\ Amy Titus '75 had a different view. She said, ''My friends and. I dated the upperclass men but these men weren't in ftater· nities, they were actually anti- fraternity so we Gidn't see such a negative vieW.\ They also talked about the social life when they were freshmen. One alumnus said tnat the \whole first term was a cattl'e-call. They'd rate your picture in the freshman record, if you qualified you would be sent an invitation and at the party you'd end up against a wall with all of the other 100 girls and would be checked out by the guys.\ Sharon Blum '74 said that the phrase, \Skidmore to bed and Union to wed\ was common. \''They were always making road trips to Skidmore and Russell Sage. They were in- teracting on one level with us in the classroom but still wanted a '.free'' life. It created a real problem between us.'' Karen Huggins '77 agreed and ·said, \We were not the girls they wanted to take to a .party- we were their studying bud- dies.\ Catherine Mullaney '74 laughed and said, \I had friends who went up to Skidmore to meet Union guys.\ However, Catherine Gifford . '83 said that ''Union was more balanced when I was tbere-it was a 5o-50 ratio between the men and women and although the guys would still go up to · Slddmore it wasn't really such a big problem...,there were enough guys that didn't, and a lot of girls that went to RPI and Saratoga anyway.'' The women alwnni talked about the intellectual and ex- tracurricular obstacles they bad to overcome. According to one 1974 graduate, \outside of housing there was nothing. If you wanted to play field hockey you couldn't because there wasn't any team. There were very few clubs or services for women, so we got involved. The first \Women's Week\ was celebrated during my years here and ·the President's Commission on the Status of Women was formed. Women were busy carving a place at Union for themselves. If you want something changed you can change it.'' · Sun Day Celebration By S.E.A. Club highlighting the sun, nature and environmental awareness will After the long Schenectady · be available. The Sun Day winter, everyone feverishly festivities culminate with a awaits the coming of spring, lecture on Solar Technology. especially spending marty hours Posters will be · placed basking in the sun. Now that throughout the campus with spring has arrived, the Union further information and news of College Student Environmental the Sun Day celebration. Alliance invites the campus to The entire campus is invited join in the celebration of Sun to join in the festivities. Anyone Day, a nationwide celebration interested in helping out should of the sun held annually on May contact Mike Knopf at 6697 or 1. Shawne McCord, Box 2139. The The celebration begins with a Student Environmental sunrise breakfast at 6:30 a.m. in Alliance meets every Tuesday Jackson's Gardeps. Throughout at 7:30 in the S.E.A. Clubroom, the day there will be a booth in .' fourth floor of Carnegie Hall. front of Carnegie Hall where T- Everyone is encouraged to shirts and other items attend. SAVE THE SKELLAR FEATURES On t:he C:Oreer Front . . . A Day In The Real World By JACQUIE DUNBAR CDC Staff It seems that everyone I talk to these days tells me the same thing. They say, ''These are the . best four years .of your Ufe- ·enjoy them now because after that you'll be out in the \Real\ World. Since I'm a sophomore I only have a little over two years before I'tn out in the ''Real\ World and I don't even know what I want to do when I get out there! There are so many op- tions available and what if I find out after four years of preparation for a certain career that I don't even like it? The Career Development Center has a soluti()n to this potential problem. .Each year the ·Alumni Clubs sponsor the Career Observation Days in New York, Boston,. and the Capital District. A Career Observation Day is an op- portunity to spend a day on the j.oq with a Union College Alumnus at his-her place of employment. There are always a wide range of careers to choose from. It's a great op- portunity to explore career options to see first hand what various professionals do in their jobs. Last week I participated in two Career Observation Days. Wednesday I spent the day in Albany with Irw.in Menken, '81, at Beckman Associates, which is an Advertising, Marketing and PR Firm. We started out with a tour of the firm and then we went to the office to get down to 'business. Mr. Menken is a media planner which includes many of the various aspects of advertising. He explained the process of his job and showed me actual accounts that he was presently working on. I ob- served the interaction between all of the employees and came to understand the importance of everyone working within their special departments to ensure success of the company as a whole. Mr. Menken was able to answer all of my questions and provided me with a great deal of information. He also set up two interviews for me with people involved in television and radio advertising. This exposed me to different aspects of advertising . and expanded my un- derstanding of the career. The entire day was very interesting, informative, and a valuable learning experience. Big Brothers- Big Sisters Riverside Amusement Park Trip - Sunday, May 20 This is an early notice to put on your calendar. Tran- sportation, admission, lunch, and rides are provided. This trip is sponsored by the Executive Committee of Union College Big Brothers-Big Sisters. Brothers-Big Sisters. They both have contributed to making our Union College program so successful! Tale of a Big Brother All Union College Big Brothers-Big Sisters and their Little Brothers-Little Sisters are invited. Adam Jarrett has a Little Brother named John, who he helped with a science project by providing him with ~orne protozoans. According to John's mom, Adam also has helped John feel more confident and improve his grades. His mom said it means a lot to John to have a special friend like Adam. Thanks Adam, keep up the good work! Special Thanks Many thanks to Eric Hornick and Coach Charlie Morrison for their generous support of Big- O.A.'s Alexandra Atrubin Cynthia DiMauro Amy Basis Scott Doniger Richard Basile Jacquie Dunbar NancyBaum Mark Feldman Susan Beitel Marc Feldstein RandiBell Rob Garry Marc Bernstein Robin Gross DaveBlee BradHaigis Betsy Boutwell Dennis Hoffman Sue Brand Heidi Kahn Ron Brosnihan Jill Kaufman Sarah Calderini Ingrid Koch Salley Carey EilEmKraft Joseph Cernigliaro PaulKurker , Beth Churchill BrianLaux Barry Cohen Andre Les Pierre Evan Collins Mark Peyton Keith Conklin Joanne Lynch Dierdre Dennehy John Madej Charles Dier Kathy Magliato Lori Meyers Jeff Michaels Shari Midoneck Gail Miller Susan Morse Sandy Nagler Dave Neiblum Susan Neumann Debbie Packman Tricia Pasqualini Mary Phillips Leslie Rhubin John Russell T.G.Ryan Robert Sharp Lauren Sobel Kathy Taylor Chuck Venezio Daniel Wagner Debbie Wiener Cabaret Tonight Act I WENDY RICHARDS Act II J.IMHAVARD Shows will be at 8:45p.m. & 10:45 p.m. - The next day I spent the af- temoon with Robert Carney ,'75, who is an attorney at Higgins, Roberts, Beyerl and Coan, a law fum on State St. in Schenec- tady. Mr. Carney began by tracing his career path starting with Union College and he followed thrQugh to where he is now. This was very helpful as it showed me some of the things to expect if I choose a career in law. We then walked around the firm to get a sense of the work environment and I was able to talk with other attorneys and a t~rd year law school student who was using the library. They all shared with me their ex- periences and expertise and advice. This is beneficial in that it provided me with things to think about that I hadn't con- sidered before. We then walked up to the courthouse and talked about the types of cases that he has handled and how he chose to present them. Both days were invaluable experiences for me. Career Observation days are an ex- cellent opportunity to interact with people out in the \Real\ Wor.ld and to expand your un- derstanding of a career. The exposure can help you in making career decisions and especially in establishing im- portant professional contacts. It's also a lot of fun to talk with the Alumni who are interested in keeping up on the activities on campus and who have many interesting stories to tell about their days at Uniont They have alr~ady been through what. we're going through and they can provide us with valuable information as to what to eJ~:pect vthen we graduate. I think everyone should participate in a Career Observation Day because it's the best way to see what it is like out there in the \Real\ World. Resident Advisors for Academic Year 1984-1985 Bradley, James Breen, Tim Budka, Kenneth Carlson, Theodore Caspe, Helene Chupay, Dawn Cohen, Jay Colsman, Eric Curtin, Linda Donnelly, John Forbes, Mary Freed, Lisa Gernert, Kristine Gigante, James Goldstein, Peter Hanson, Karla-Head RA Hesler, Timothy - Hodes, Leon Holt, Mary Khajehzadeh, Behyar Kline, Michael-Head RA Levin, Sarah . Levine, Beth Loftus, Annemarie Melio, Florence-Head RA O'Donnell, Christopher Podolsky, Howard Quine, Stephen Rothschild, Stephen Schwebel, Todd Shaffer, Christine Siefert, Robb Siler, Christine Steinbach, Katharine Sullivan, Georgia Voris,Liza Wade, Brian Watkins, Kevin Will, Tom-Head RA Wilson, Jeffrey Wyatt, John Alternates Bill Martuscello Lisa Foley

PageS {lllltlfllrbirusis FounJ,J at { lmon CollqJt 1877 ------------ --~~----- Committees Unfair? At a time when student apathy is at a peak on college . campuses throughout the nation, Union is fortunate to have hundreds of students willing to fill such inportant and respected positions as Orien- tation Advisor, Gatesman, and Resident Advisor. The selectitm from such a large number of applicants to fill the limited number of positions available is ex- tremely difficult and has raised much criticism during recent weeks. The criticisms of the selection process used to choose O.A.'s, R.A.'s and Gatesmen stem from the ract that committees formed of students decide who will he accepted or rejected. It is impossible for these st1:1dents to be totally objective when evaluating applicants because they are bound to know some of these individuals. These prior acquaintances between the students on the selection committees and the individuaJ.s applying for positions can be either helpful or harmful to the applicants. In addition, applicants who do not know anyone on the selection committees may not get the ''inside pull'' necessary in order to be accepted. rhe Initial reactions of both ·committee members and certain members of the administration to these and other criticisms have been both defensive and righteous. Perhaps instead of defending themselves, these individuals should try to find the reasons behind these complaints. In this way they can determine whether or not a genuin~ problem exists. The present selection process may be considered by some to be the fairest manner in which to. select in- dividuals for these popular positions. However, alternatives exist which may prove to be more beneficial to the college community. For example, perhaps the selection process could be revised in order to resemble the one which is now utilized by the CoC. Under this system, applicants are evaluated on the basis of an anonymous application-rather than a subjective interview; It cannot be denied that the selection committees have a very difficult job, especially when the number of qualified applicants exceeds the number of positions available. These committees and the ad- ministration try to serve the co-llege community in the best possible manner. However, when a problem exists it must be pointed out before it can be corrected. There is always room for improvement-in any system. This fact should be accepted, rather than the existing process defended. AnENTION All STUDENTS!! Petitions for the foiiO'Ning student elected positions \Nil I be available in the Student Activities Office beginning Monday, April 30. Completed petitions, along ~Nith candidates' statements, are due May 7. Term of office is the 1984-85 school year. Senior Rep. (3) Junior Rep. (3) Soph. Rep. (3) Jun. Trustee Pres. -Student For. VP•Admin. VP-Finance Rep. __ -Academic Aff. Election is tentatively scheduled for Friday, May 11 .. CON< 'ORIJII::NSIS. Apri/2(J, 198.J .LETTERS C,hoice Draws Regret To the Editor: . It is with regret that WE write • against the sponsorship of · Clovis Maksoud by Union College, the Department of History, and the Saclat Peace Lectureship. No organization deserves less a forum for its ideas tHan the Arab League. For forty years, it stood, and . continues to stand, .for the · destruction of Israel and the Jewish people. Under the guise of a more gentrified public . relations posture, the Arab League and its representatives · are a center for sustained · hostility toward a mea11ingful : peace in the Middle East. Indeed, it is the Arab League · that coordinates the boycott against Israel and companies that do business in Israel; refuses to condemn terrorist activities against Jews, en- . dorses· the PLO convenaJlt .and historically has served as a • coordinating agency · for military actions in three wars against Israel. In fact, the Arab League is .so opposed 'to the current peace pro.cess that Maksoud refuses to allow the title of this lecture series, \The Sadat Peace Lectureshi,p,\ to be used in promoting his ta:lk. In sadness, we note that there are no moderate Arab states, that moderate Arab spokesmen when they have emerged have been systematically assassi,nated 1 and that the . Palestinian refugee problem has been maintained in a cynical and cruel way as a means of preserving and fostering anti-Israeli feeling. There is in the liberal West .a long tradition of free speech, and the right of all '''•legitimate\ opinions ·to be heard. Even nineteenth century Liberals, hl)wever, recognized that free speech did not need . to en- compass views. that . were morally WJiong, or would seriously harm others. In the common mind, there are always two sides to an issue; in reauty, there are frequently many $ides, and truth does not emerge when the deliberate . goal is to pervert language. We. do, we believe, a disservice to millions who have died in defense of their · beliefs. and identity to offer this ''lobbyist for hate\ a forum at Union . College. Physical Plant's Work Appreciated . To the Editor: I would like to extend thanks to the members of the Physical · Plant Department who nave demonstrated a wonderfnllevel · of enthusiasm and respon- sibility for the College. Several · weeks ago I took a very old and · very sad rowing machine t6 the machine shop and asked Mr. James Ogden, the director, and Mr. Joseph E. O'Rourke, chief laboratory technician, for guidance on what might be done toward restoring the device for the newly founded Union College Rowing Association. They said they would lcJOk it over and that I should come back in several days. ThE next time I came back the machine They had taken the time out of their own free .periods to ac- complish the task and to gUide their student assistants. The result was a highlY professional one-and certainly well beyond my abUity at &uch things. I suspect that the rowing machine is now in use at the gymnasiUm. Thank you, again, Mr. Ogden and ~r. O'R()urke! Next, I would like to report that the missing whale back~ bone is back! The sharp eyes of the maintenance personnel who saw the bone walking across campus allowed us to recover the piece, Apparently the odor resulted in the two culprits abandoning tbe task near the Union Avenue gate where the bone was discovered by another party who transported it to a residence on Gillespie St. where it resided on a back porch. Here another member of the com- munity discovered it and on reading our earlier notice called me with the good news. Finally, Mr. Stanley Staveckis and Mr. William.Shannon, assistants in this department, went·over and recovered the item, a task well beyond their normally expected duties! Very special thanks are herewith extended to the people of our Physical Plant Depart- ment and to Stan and Bill. This kind of back•:up really ma~es the Union College Community. Carl J. George Professor of Biology was in nearly new condition: .--------- ........ --- ........................ ~~-~-..........., Benefit A Success To the Editor: In the past, we have done many fund raisers in the Rathskellar; but the night of . Aprilll, 1984 was a special one. By special, I mean that when it is for someone you work with on a day-to-day basis, it mEans a ·lot more. ' The benefit was a great success. We raised $300 .for Robert Knapp, manager Qf Hale House Dining Hall. · Although Bob won't be able to replace the memories connected to the items that he once had, it will help him build some new ones knowi.Ilg that there are pe()ple like you that care. · I would like to thank the students; staff and friends who came down to support the cause. Without your patronage we could not have raised the money. Many thanks to McNearney's for donatillg the beer, and my most heartfelt appreciation goes olit to the entertainers who donated their time and talents. On campus · many thanks to Jim Easen- field's group, Scott Remillat·d's · trio and those two terrific guys (sorry, I forgot yo11r names, I apologize) who played. at the end. Off campus, I would like to thank The Night Owls, Mark, Dave,- and Rob; The Usbers with special thanks to Dellllis and Jose' for filling in. Sorry if I . missed anyone. Once again, THANK YOU. Brian Cotterell and the Rathskellar crew F - ·- - To tl Th · Gayl weel .It ' .Pro< .·prin · Oriel sele< choo 'Advi Miss mUd' fortu muel argu presa ·evid~ the l fa tilt Fil that oc 1 plexE pQsit deSCI last~ OA, . supp' this 1 It: was tervl mern comr comr tervi' of m ans.\11 quest mem sigm disre const . his ~ givin com.,: partil de lib pree' - To th1 Thi comn Concc about tatior tatior Thi persp ·been mem1 .Spec! Comr OAs previ rejeC1 the s Rose1 mem: canb doubt regar Pl\OCE . assur uncal seleC1

Paxc 8 <llnmrbirnsis Foundni at f lmon Collcwr 1817 ------------ ----------- Committees U f .? nair. At a time when student apathy is at a peak on college campuses throughout the nation, Union is fortunate to have hundreds of students willing to fill such important and respected positions as Orien- tation Advisor, Gatesman, and Resident Advisor. The selection from such a large number of applicants to fill the limited number of positions available is ex- tremely difficult and has raised much criticism during recent weeks. The criticisms of the selection process used to choose O.A. 's, R.A. 's and Gatesrnen stem from the ract that committees formed of students decide who will be accepted or rejected. It is impossible for these students to be totally objective when evalaating applicants because they are bound to know some of these individuals. These prior acquaintances between the students on the selection committees and the individuals applying for positions can be either helpful or harmful to the applicants. In additi~n, applicants who do not know anyone on the selectwn committees may not get the \inside pull\ necessary in order to be accepted. The initial reactions of both committee members and certain members of the administration to these and other criticisms have been both defensive and righteous. Perhaps instead of defending themselv.es, these individuals should try to find the reasons behmd these complaints. In this way they can determine whether or not a genuin~ problem exists. The present selection process may be considered by some to be the fairest manner in which to. select in- dividuals for these popular positions. However, alternatives exist which may prove to be more beneficial to the college community. For example, perhaps the selection process could be revised in order to resemble the one which is now utilized by the CoC. Under this system, applicants are evaluated on the basis of an anonymous application-rather than a subjective interview. It cannot be denied that the selection committees have a very difficult job, especially when the ntunber of qualified applicants exceeds the number of positions available. These committees and. th~ ad- ministr-ation try to serve the callege commumty m the best possible manner. However, when a problem exists it must be pointed out before it can be corrected. There is always room for improvement-in any system. This fact should be accepted, rather than the existing process defended. ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS!! Petitions for the foiiO'Ning student elected positions 'Nill be available in the Student Activities Office beginning Monday, April 30. Completed petitions, along 'Nith candidates' statements, are due May 7. Term of office is the 1984-85 school year. Senior Rep. (3) Junior Rep. (3) Soph. Rep. (3) Jun. Trustee Pres. -Student For. VP .. Admin. VP-Finance Rep.-Academic Aff. Election is tentatively scheduled for Friday, May 11 ( '0/V( 'OR/)1/:'N.~'/.\', .·1pril !6, IIJl/.1 LETTERS Choice Draws Regret To the Editor: It is with regret that we write against the sponsorship of Clovis Maksoud b:Y Union College, the Department of History, and the Sadat Peace Lectureship. No organization deserves less a forum for its ideas than the Arab League. For fort:Y :Years, it stood, and centinues to stand, for the destruction of Israel aRd the Jewish people. Under the guise of a more gentrified public relations posture, the Arab League and its representatives are a center for sustained hostility toward a meaningful peace in the Middle East. Indeed, it is the Arab League that coordinates the boycott against Israel and companies that do business in Israel; refuses to condemn terrorist activities against Jews, en- dorses the PLO convenant and historically has sened as a coordinating agency for military actions in three wars against Israel. In fact, the Arab League is so opposed to the current peace process that Maksoud refuses to allow the title of this lecture series, \The Sadat Peace Lectureship,\ to be used in promoting his talk. In sadness, we note that there are no moderate Arab states, that moderate Arab spokesmen when they have emerged have been systematically assassinated, and that the Palestinian refugee problem has been matntained in a cynical and cruel way as a means of preserving and fostering anti-Israeli feeling. There is in the liberal West a long tradition of free speech, and the right of all \·legitimate\ opinions to be heard. Even nineteenth century Liberals, however, recognized that free speech did not need to en- compass views that ·were morally wrong, or would seriously harm others. In the common mind, there are always two sides to an issue; in reality, there are frequently . many sides, and truth does not emerge when the deliberate · goal is to pervert language. We do, we believe, a disservice to . miUions who have died in · defense of their beliefs and identity to offer this \lobbyist . for hate\ a forum at Union· College. Stephen Berk . Professor of History · . Joseph Finkelstein · Professor of History and Economics and of · Adm. and Mgt. . Seth Greenberg Professer of Psychology Erik Hansen Professor of History Terry Weiner Associate Professor and Chairman of the Department of Sociology Ph.ysical Plant's Work Appreciated To the Editor: I would like to extend thanks to the members of the Physical Plant Department who have demonstrated a wonderful level of enthusiasm and respon- sibility for the College. Several weeks ago I took a very old and very sad rowing machine to the machine shop and asked Mr. James Ogden, the director, and Mr. Joseph E. O'Rourke, chief laboratory technician, for guidance on what might be done toward restoring the device for the newly founded Union College Rowing Association. They said they would look it over and that I should come back in several days_ The next time I came back the machine They had taken the time out of their own free periods to ac- complish the task and to guide their student assistants. The result was a highly professional one-and certainly well be:Yond my ability at ~uch things. I suspect that the rowing machine is now in use at the gymnasium. Thank you, again, Mr. Ogden and Mr. O'Rourke! Next, I would like to report that the missing whale back- bone is back! The sharp eyes of the maintenance personnel who saw the bone walking across campus allowed us to recover the piece. Apparently the odor resulted in the two culprits abandoning the task near the Union Avenue gate where the bone was discovered by another party who transported it to a residence on Gillespie St. where it resided on a back porch. Here another member of the corn-· .munity discovered it and on • reading our earlier notice called . me with the good news. Finally, Mr. Stanley Staveckis and Mr. William Shannon, assistants in this department, went over and recovered the item, a task well beyond their normally expected duties! Very special thanks are · herewith extended to the people of our Physical Plant Depart- ment and to Stan and Bill. This kind of back-up really makes the Union College Community. CarlJ. George Professor of Biology was in nearly new condition. 1-;============:;::::::==:::;:::::::=====t Benefit A Success To the Editor: In the past, we bave done many fund raisers in the Rathskellar, but the night of Aprilll, 1984 was a special one. By special, I mean that when it is for someone you work with on a day-to-day basis, it mean~ a lot more. The benefit was a great success. We raised $300 for Robert Knapp, manager of Hale House Dining Hall. Although Bob won't be able to replace the memories connected to the items that he once had, it will help him build some new ones knowing that there are people like you that care. I would like to thank the students, staff and friends who came down to supP<Jrt the cause. Without your patronage we could not have raised the money. Many thanks to McNearney's for donating the beer, and my most heartfelt appreciation goes out to the entertainers who donated their time and talents. On campus many thanks to Jim Hasen- field's group, Scott Remillard's trio and those two terrific guys (sorr:Y, I forgot your names, I apologize) who played at the end. Off campus, I would like to thank The Night Owls, Mark, Dave, and Rob; The Ushers with special thanks to Dennis and Jose' for filling in. Sorry if I missed anyone. Once again, THANK YOU. Brian Cotterell and the Rathskellar Crew Editors-in-Chief News Editor Associate New Editor Features Editor Associate Features Editor Commentary Page Editor Arts Editors · · Campus Page E<litors Sports Editors Associate Sports Editor Advertising Editor Associate Advertising Editors Photo Editor Associate Photo Editors Julie Abelman, Donna Getson Gayle Rosenfeld Jan Baran Franklin Schneider Betsy Treitler Petet·Mohr . Debbie Albert, Brian Laux Karen Greaves, Jill Kaufman Drew Hurley, Lynn O'Brien Doug Baumgarten Mary Ann Gagliardi Debbie Rose, EllenSlipp Daphne Cbigas J()bn Barofslty, Larry Kaminsky, · Steve Robbins Sports Photo Editor Robert Tang Subscription Editors Jim CMtpbell, David Frantz Staff . . Ric~d Biegen, Sarah Calderini, :Maureen Coleman;-Scott Collins; Lori Cooper, Tod Di.mtnick, Diane Dulfy 1 :QyseeFeingold, Mike Fox Lynn ~:mo, TMl<~ndris; Michae! Knopff PaulKurket, Karen Lis:;~uer, Dave'Marin1 George A. ~urr~ III;· LoriO.Uwenstein, Snaron Pearl; Ju . on, Steve Pirainn tafida Raffaele · 1 •. ' . : ··. . ... } .... , . ...• ... . . .. ! . l Amy Rosen~ntt,·.uarey SJ.lapiro, w .. eJ, Stefanie Spanier, Judi.e Swinbar,J.it .{,apice Tho,Qtpson} Aaron Toffler f Scott Wykoff Photo Staff Jim Campbell; ~avidDworkin;HeidiXalm, Pat Merritt;.PattfSaeks, Steve Sllapirot Frank Skorina OO~CORI)IENSI$ is pU.b~h.~ w ~h ~y b.y th~ $itJdetit body Gf Ufiion COllege, Ca:rn~gie S ... . . · dy, New York t2308.' Publications Offi<:e :.,~~\U.!qu · · :Pull)J c~ S®t $88, Sidney, New York 138$'8, ( ooa-35B/ ; lri the Schenectady Post Offic~ as first class matter• Su r~~, $18 per year, · eted anYWhere in the Utlited . ., Offi~ 1!~~phone: . CONOOitJJ) ... . ......... sub$clttbtt$ to .·· C!Uu·· .e(ge .• i;., .. a· .. Pr. · .. J·.· ...•• ess ~~ee . ;: . (CPS), and utilizes the CQllege ~ew .. c ... , I ~ r l ' I \ 4, r ~ I ; l I ~ j i ~ . i \ ' ' - - Tot Tl Gay wee It PrG prh OriE sele cho' Adv Mis: m.il~ fort1 muc · .argt preE evid the faur Fi that oc plex posi desc last OA, sup~ this It was terv mer. corn com terv of n ans1 queE me11 sign disrc cons his givir COin parti delil pree To tt Th COinl Cone abou tatio tatio Th pers1 been men: Spec Corn OAs prev rejec the : Ros€ men: can! doub reg a proo assu unca selec p 51 0

CONCORDIENSIS~ Apri/26, 1984 Selection Process Criticized · Part II . To the Editor: The folloWing is ln support of Gayle Rosenfeld's. Jetter in last week~s issue of Concordiensfs. . It was entitled \Selection . Process Criticized,'' and it~ primarily . attacked the . Orientation Collliilittee and its selection procedures u$ed . to choose next year's Orientation · Advisors. I must point out that Miss Rosenfeld was relatlvely mild In her criticism, and un-. fortunately she did not have too - much evidence to support her arguments. It is my intent to present su¢h evidence .hereto, ·evidence which clearly reveals the Orientation Committee's fEUilts: Firstly, I would like to state that when the deCisions of the OC were mailed, I was . per- plex:ed to find myself in a position very sinlila_r to the one described by Miss Rosenfeld; last year I was selected to be an OA, while this year, for un- supported reasons I was denied this position. It is my strong belief that I was subjected to an unfair )n- tervtew. In my opinion, members of any .selection committee should at least show comrtlon courtesy to the in- terviewees. During the process of my interview, while I was answering the addressed questions, one ·of the two OC members revealed obvious signs of boredom and disrespect. He was visibly and constantly yawning, rotating his eyes up and down, and. giving conspiratory looks ac- compani~d by smiles t9 his partner. Thi~ was done with deliberate .intent to discredit or preevaluate my answers. Given my background and my knowledge of the campus, I believe that mY answers to the addressed questions were at least satisfactory. Furthermore I do not think that my answers were so boring that they triggered such a reaction from the afo.rementioned in- terviewer. Secondly, when I informed one of the chairmen of this committee of the ex:isting Situation (I did. this after the decisions were malled and I pursued it in an Informal manner), he told me that this yea,r's decisions .are based solely on the .outcome of the interview regardless of a person's qualificati!lns. At the same time he told me, and I quote ''. . . this year not too many people on the committee knew you.'' This statement directly contradicts the previous one, and it only shows that the charges brought by Miss Rosenfeld are valid. It is to be directly derived that since I did not know enough ·people on the OC, I stood no chance even to come up for discusSion. The statement, coming from one of the chairmen of this committee, is sufficient and conclusive · evidence that the OA selection process is biased and not pased on merit. I think this is very sad, and I would like to ex:press my concern pertaining to the qualifications of .tlie OAs selected on the basis of this process. Thirdly, with all the respect to the Assistant Dean of Students and the chairman of the previous OC (who · are responsible for the selection of the OC members), I contest the qualifications of such OC members who display behavior as the one exercised by my interviewer. I received numerous complaints from students claiming that this· type of arrogant behavior was ·shown by different OC members in several instances. Fur• thermore, I received two more valid complaints pertaining to my particular interviewer's behavior, which seemed to be very siinilar to the one he exercised towards me. The least an applicant for an OA p(')sition can expect is a fair interview. If such unjustified cutting and biased selection process continues to exist, this will present ga. danger to the Orientation Committee in particular and to the campus community as a whole. The danger will consist in that when more and more students will ·learn about the ·selection process used by the OC, they will refuse to apply for the OA position, and this will directly result in a shortage of can- didates. In conclusion I would want to emphasize that I really respect the work and the efforts of the Orientation Corrunittee, and I have nothing personal against this committee's members. · However, it is my opinion that the whole selection process employed by the OC should be revised and changed as soon as possible. I understand that this letter may upset lots of people; however, I' would urge them t<r channel their energy in a constructive way, and that is to improve tbe existing faulty election process. Sincerely, Jacques Simon Orientation Committee Responds To the Editor: This letter is in reply to the comments made iii last week's Concordfensis by Ms. Rosenfeld about the selection of Oriert• tation Advisors by the Orien- tation Committee. ' This letter is written from the perspective of people who have · been OAs and are at present members of the Committee. .Specific members of the Committee were selected as OAs off the alternate list in previous years or had been rejected in the past and made the same accusations as Ms. Rosenfeld has. However, as members of the Committee it can be said without hesitation or doubt that those accusations regarding this year's selection proceSS' are based upon false assumptions, are unf~unded, uncalled for and unfatr. The selection process for OAs (a process that has. been totally changed for this year) is a very fair one. The major deter- minant for being selected is not how many people you know on the Committee, bUt, is rather perfonnance in an interview. The charge that Greek organizations stick t()gether is also one that clearly does not come from any J;mowledge of what went on in the selection process. There we1~e many times when C()mmittee members had to be un- supportive of their fraternity or sorority brothers or sisters. Indeed; it would be fair to say that upon entering the Com- mittee room, members left their friends and personal preferences outside of the door. Further, the selection of Committee members, based upon interviews with Dean Massa and previous Committee chairpeople, resulted in a - AnENTION SENIORS·- NOW IS YOUR CHANCE TO SPEAK AT YOUR GRADUATION Any senior 1 nterested In Delivering OUR Student Address Please submit a typed copy of your 3·5 minute speech to Mrs. Marra,· in the Student Activities Office. By MONDAY; APRIL 30th Please include your name and I D nu·mber diverse Committee which represents a wide spectrum of campus interests. A selection process to please everyone, we fear, is an im- possibility. The process .used this year was new, efficient, fair, and resulted in the selection of what members of the Committee feel are the best people for the position of OA. Obviously, with only 60 positions and approximately 200 applications, not every qualified applicant could be accommodated, regardless of whether they had been advisors in previous years. The people that were selected as OAs and alternates were chosen on the basis of their ability to satisfy very stringent and consistent criteria and for no other reason. The members of the Committee were faced with a very difficult task in choosing the OAs (it is reasonable to conclude that the same holds true for Gatesmen and RA) and we challenge anyone to devise a better system without sacrificing the sanity of the Committee members. It is unfair for people to hurl unfounded accusations out of a reaction of hurt for not being selected. As a closing note, the Orientation Committee ap· preciates everyone who took the time to apply. Congratulations to those that were selected. To those that were not, it is in by no means a reflection · on your personalities, or even abilities to be good OAs. There were not nearly enough spots open to be able to give every qualified applicant a position. We thank you and encourage ·you to apply again next year. · Sincerely, The Orientation Committee 1984 Page.!i r LETTERS Issue Redefined To the Editor: What has happened to this college? I honestly do not believe what is gofug on the8e days . . . Rich Biegen's editorial-resignation in last week's edition, along with the statements being thrown about in the discussion over the \pornography\ issue, are entirely within the realm of the ridiculous. Have we lost both logic and sensibility for a love of shouting at one another? . . . It bothers me that I have to dignify their inanity, but I am truly afraid that if something is not said by someone, those who neither have anything productive or worthwhile to say will conwletely overrun Con· cordiensts with their scandalous rubbish. The fundamental issue, in· deed the only issue, is whether or not the showing of X-rated films in SS016 has a demon· strable adverse effect on our campus. The issue is NOT, whether pornography is \good'' or \bad''~this is for adult in· dividuals to decide for them- selves. We are all members of an enlightened community, and despite the appearance of some - rather poorly thought out pieces in your letter colwnn lately, I have seen no indication that we are not acting light one. It is reasonable to assume that Cafe Flesh will reverse the ob- servational learning that Union's male population is involved in each day-that being seeing women on campus as intellectual, social and physical equals-and do all this in an hour and a half? • Personally, I find it hard to believe that such a film has a theme, let alone such a powerful message that coul$1 turn decent, intelligent, thinking men sexists and rapists. What, in concrete terms, does showing. an x .. rated film once a term on campus do that could described as something that \hurts\ women? It is this that tbe anti-pornography forces · have to articulate; and if they have ready facts at their disposal to even strongly suggest that these films· promote violence or discrimination against women at Union, I and many others would gladly join them. Until then however, it seems best that we leave the other· moral questions about por- nography for the individual to answer for himself. At this point in time, that decision is sym- bolized by the decision of whether to buy tickets to the film or not; Rich's indignation should keep him away from the film, While not hindering or obstructing Jacques' option to · decide what is best for him. As a last appeal, I would like to ask all concerned, that until we have some facts to go on, instead of hot tempers, we should have no more resignations, no more slan- dering, and no more junk thought. l am quite tired of having our paper cluttered. Yours sincerely, Eric Lipman View Clarified To the Editor: The following is in response to the comments made by Mr. Richard Biegen ill his letter \Film Committee Member Resigns\ which appeard in the last week's issue of Con· cordiensis. Among numerous issues, Mr. Biegen mentioned that at one of the Student Forum meetings held last term, I stated that \Pornography should not be compared with the Holocaust because the Nazis killed millions of people, and as far as he (Jacques Simon) knew; nobody dies of sex.\ Furthermore, Mr. Biegen points to isolat~d and vague examples to support his argunient. I must say it seems like Mr. Biegen completely missed my point. When I made the aforementioned corrunent, I did not do it with intent to deny the very few instances of deatb as a result of the making of pornographic movies. I must agree I was not aware of the time of the killing of women on screen in •'snuff\ films. However, I would like to elaborate below on two points. Firstly, to the best of my knowledge, the type of movies mentioned by Mr. Biegen are illegal and the makers of such movies are prosecuted under federal and state criminal codes. \Snuff\ is regarded as a. crime and not as a regular pornographic movie. I do not believe that the movie \Wanda Whips Wall St.reet,\ which raised the controversy on the Union College. campus showed any signs of violence, homicide or female degradation. Secondly; and most im- . portantly, my statement was made as a counterreaction to an unjustified and out of place comparison made between the Holocaust and DOI~nOI!rBlPDIC movies; If Mr. responsible for the aforementioned comparison are not aware of the historical facts, let me remind them that the Holocaust was a very sad period of time for the Jewish people. during which 6,000,000 people were murdered in the most cruel and inhwnane ways which horrified and continue to horrify the whole world up to today. The Holocaust broke families and left permanent scars on the minds and bodies of its sur- vivors. It is a very touchy subject of discussion in general, let alone to compare this periCJd of time to pornographic movies. I do not believe that it is anyone's place to make such comparison and therefore to grossly misinterpret the historical facts. This is a direct insult to me as a Jew and to the .campus Jewish community as a whole. And this is exactly why I made the comment mentioned \by Mr. Biegen. Sincerely, Jacques G. Sim<>n .All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 5 p.m. ·each Tuesday before pub I icati- on. All letters must be signed bt)t names will be withheld upon request. Save The Skellar!!

i 'l r t I I l i I ! I f; i ! I I j \ ~ i \ \ ' ! 1 I l ~ I l ~ ' ' ~ I ' ' ', i l I I I I CONCORDIENSIS. April 26. 1984 Page~ Selection Process Criticized .. Part II To the Editor: The following is in support of Gayle Rosenfeld's letter in last week's issue of Concordiensis. It was entiUed \Selection Pracess Criticized,\ and it· primarily attacked the Orientation Committee and its selection pracedures used to choose next year's Orientation Advisors. I must point out that Miss Rosenfeld was relatively m.ild in her criticism, and un.- fortunately she did not have too much evidence to support her arguments. Lt is my intent to present such evidence hereto, evidence which clearly reveals the OrientatioN Committee's faults. Firstly, I would like to state that when the decisions of the OC were mailed, I was per- plexed to find myself in a position very similar to the one described by Miss Rosenfeld; last year I was selected to be an OA, while this year, for tm- supported reasons I was denied this position. It is my strong belief that I was subjected to an unfair in- terview. In my opirilon, members of any selection committee should at least show common courtesy to the in- terviewees. During the process of my interview, while I was answering the addressed questions, one of the two OC members revealed obvious signs of boredom and disrespect. He was visibly and constantly yawning, rotating his eyes up and down, and giving conspiratory looks ac- companied by smiles to his partner. This was done with deliberate intent to discredit or preevaluate my answers. Given tny backg,round and my knowledge .of the campus, I believe that my answers to the addressed questions were at least satisfactory. Furthermore I do not think that my answers were so boring that they triggered such a reaction from the aforementioned in- terviewer. Secondly. when I informed one of the .chairmen of this committee of the existing situation (I did this after the decisions were mailed and I pursued it in an informal manner), he told me that this year's decisicms are based solely on the outcome of the interview regardless of a person's qualifications. At the same time he told me, and I quote \. . . this year not too many people on the committee knew you.\ This statement directly c()ntradicts the previous one, and it only shows that the charges brought by Miss Rosenfeld .are valid. It is to be directly derived that since I did not know en()ugh people on the OC, I stood no chance even to come up for ctiscussion. The statement, coming from one of the chairmen of this committee, is sufficient and conclusive evidence that the OA selection process is biased and not based on merit. I think this Is very sad, and I would like to express my concern pertaining to the qualifications of the OAs selected on the basis of this process. Thirdly, with all the respect to the Assistant Dean of Students and the chairman of the previous OC (who are responsible for the selection of the OC members), r contest the qualifications of such OC metnbers who display behavior as the one exercised by my interviewer. I received numerous complaints from students claiming that this type of arrogant behavior was shown by different OC members in several instances. Fur- thermore, I received two more valid complaints pertaining te my particular interviewer's behaviar, which seemed to be very similar to the one he exercised towards me. The least an applicant for an OA position can expect is a fair interview. If such unjustified cutting and biased selection process continues to exist, this will present a danger to the Orientation Committee in particular and to the campus community as a whole. The danger will consist in that when more and more students will learn about the selection process used by the OC, tl:ley will refuse to apply for the OA position, and this will directly result in a shortage of can- didates, In conclusion I would want to emphasize that I really respect the work and the efforts of the Orientation Committee, and I have nothing personal against this committee's members. However, it is my opinion that the whole selection process employed by the OC should be revised and changed as soon as possible. I understand that this letter may upset lots of people; however, I would urge them to channel their energy in a constructive way, and that is to improve the existing faulty election process. Sincerely, Jacques Simon Orientation Committee Responds To the Editor: This letter is in reply to the comments made in last week's Concordiensis by Ms. Rosenfeld about the selection of Orien- tation Advisors by the Orien- tation Committee. , This letter is written from the perspective of people who have been OAs and are at present members of the Committee. Specific members of the Committee were selected as OAs off the alternate list in previous years or had been rejected in the past and made the same accusations as Ms. Rosenfeld has. However, as members of the Committee it can be said without hesitation or doubt that those accusations regarding this year's selection process are based upon false assumptions, are unfounded, uncalled for and unfair. The selection process for OAs (a process that has been totally changed for this year) is a very fair one. The major deter- minant for being selected is not how many people you know on the Committee, but, is rather performance in an interview. The charge that Greek organizations stick together is also one that clearly does not come from any )mowledge of what went on in the selection process. There were many times when Committee members had to be un- supportive of their fraternity or sorority brothers or sisters. Indeed, it would be fair to say that upon entering the Com- mittee room, members left their friends and personal preferences outside of the door. Further, the selection of Committee members, based upon interviews with Dean Massa and previous Committee chairpeople, resulted in a - AnENTION SENIORS- NOW IS YOUR CHANCE TO SPEAK AT YOUR GRADUATION Any Senior 1 nterested in Delivering OUR Student Address Please submit a typed copy of your 3·5 minute speech to Mrs. Marra,. in the Student Activities Office. By MONDAy I APRIL 3 0111 Please include your name and ID number diverse Committee which represents a wide spectrum of campus interests. A selection process to please everyone, we fear, is an im- possibility. The process used this year was new, efficient, fair, and resulted in the selection of what members of the Committee feel are the best people for the position of OA. Obviously, with only 60 positions and approximately 200 applications, not every qualified applicant could be accommodated, regardless of whether they had been advisors in previous years. The people that were selected as OAs and alternates were chosen on the basis of their ability to satisfy very stringent and consistent criteria and for no other reason. The members of the Committee were faced with a very difficult task in choosing the OAs (it is reasonable to conclude that the same holds true for Gatesmen and RA) and we challenge anyone to devise a better system without sacrificing the sanity of the Committee members. It is unfair for people to hurl unfounded accusations out of a reaction of hurt for not being selected. As a closing note, the Orientation Committee ap- preciates everyone who took the time to apply. Congratulations to those that were selected. 1'o those that were not, it is in by no means a reflection on your personalities, or even abilities to be good OAs. There were not nearly enough spots open to be able to give every qualified applicant a position. We thank you and encourage you to apply again neld year. Sincerely, The Orientation Committee 1984 LETTERS Issue Redefined To the Editor: What has happened to this college? I honestly do not believe what is going on these days . . . Rich Biegen's editorial-resignation in last week's edition, along with the statements being thrown about in the discussion over the \pornography\ issue, are entirely within the realm of the ridiculous. Have we lost both legic and sensibility for a love of shouting at one another? . . . It bothers me that I have to dignify their inanity, but I am truly afraid that if something is not said by someone, those who neither have anything productive or worthwhile to say will completely overrun Con- cordiensls with their scandalous rubbish. The fundamental issue, in- deed the only issue, is whether or not the showing of X-rated films in SS016 has a demon- strable adverse effect on our campus. The issue is NOT, whether pornography is \good\ or \bad\-this is for adult in- dividuals to decide for them- selves. We are all members of an enlightened community, and despite the appearance of some rather poorly thought out pieces in your letter column lately, I have seen no indication that we are not acting light one. It is reasonable to assume that Cafe Flesh will reverse the ob- servational learning that Union's male population is involved in each day-that being seeing women on campus as intellectual, social and physical equals-and do all of this in an hour and a half? PersonaUy, I find it hard to believe that such a film has a theme, let alone such a powerful message that coul~ turn decent, intelligent, thinking men into sexists and rapists. What, in concrete terms, does showing an X-rated film once a term on campus do that could be described as something that \hurts\ women? It is this that the anti-pornography forces have to articulate; and if they have ready facts at their disposal to even strongly suggest that these films promote violence or discrimination against women at Union, I and many others would gladly join them. Until then however, it seems best that we leave the other moral questions about por- nography for the individual to answer for himself. At this point in time, that decision is sym- bolized by the decision of whether to buy tickets to the film or not; Rich's indignation should keep him away from the film, while not hindering or obstructing Jacques' option to decide what is best for him. As a last appeal, I would like to ask all concerned, that until we have some facts to go on, instead of hot tempers, we should have no more resignations, no more slan- dering, and no more junk thought. I am quite tired of having our paper cluttered. Yours sincerely, Eric Lipman View Clarified To the Editor: The following is in response to the comments made by Mr. Richard Biegen in his letter \Film Committee Member Resigns\ which appeard in the last week's issue of Conm cordiensis. Among numerous issues, Mr. Biegen mentioned that at one of the Student Forum meetings held last term, I stated that \Pornography should not be compared with the Holocaust because the Nazis killed millions of people, and as far as he (Jacques Simon) knew, nobody dies of sex.\ Furthermore, Mr. Biegen points to isolated and vague examples to support his argument. I must say it seems like Mr. Biegen completely missed my point. When I made the aforementioned comment, I did not do it with intent to deny the very few instances of death as a result of the making of pornographic movies. I must agree I was not aware of the time of the killing of women on screen in Hsnuff\ films. However, I would like to elaborate below on two points. Firstly, to the best of my knowledge, the type of movies mentioned by Mr. Biegen are illegal and the makers of such movies are prosecuted under federal and state criminal codes. \Snuff\ is regarded as a crime and not as a regular pornographic movie. I do not believe that the movie ''Wanda Whips Wall Street,'' which raised the controversy on the Union College campus showed any signs of violence, homicide or female degradation. Secondly, and most im- portantly, my statement was made as a counterreaction to an Wljustified and out of place comparison made between the Holocaust and pornographic movies. If Mr. Biegen and those responsible for the aforementioned comparison are not aware ofthe historical facts, let me remind them that the Holocaust was a very sad period of time for the Jewish people, during which 6,000,000 people were murdered in the most cruel and inhumane ways which horrified and continue to horrify the whole world up to today. The Holocaust broke families and left permanent scars on the minds and bodies of its sur- vivors. It is a very touchy subject of discussion in general, let alone to compare this period of time to pornographic movies. I do not believe that it is anyone's place to make such comparison and therefore to grossly misinterpret the historical facts. This is a direct insult to me as a Jew and to the campus Jewish community as a whole. And this is exactly why I made the comment mentioned by Mr. Biegen. Sincerely, Jacques G. Simon All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday before publicati- on. All letters must be signed but names wi II be withheld upon request. Save The Skellar!!

Page 10 CO NCOH /)1/:'NS/.\; April 26. 198 4 - . - THE ARTS - . Pat Metheny Trio in Troy A Nig~t On The Town By TODD DIMMICK Staff The Pat Metheny Trio ap- peared April 19 at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall. The hall was packed with fans, including many Union .students. Sponsored by UPAC, the RPI Concert Board, there were many RPI students there, as well as people. from ali over. The show opened late, and Pat Metheny, telling why he was late, gave me a good idea of how different he is from other musicians who are as well known as himself. He had been setting up his own equipment for the concert since 2:00 in the afternoon. \Before I knew it, it was 7:30 and I still hadn't taken a shower! That's why I was late.\ His attitude towards his music is indeed easygoing, a feeling that is felt in the per- formances he gives. · Metheny began with two guitar solos of unique quality. The first, an eerie collage of sounds, set the stage for Methany like abstract music. This music sometimes seems to have no melody, at other times seems to be shifting fluidly from one melody to another. The music is played with a freedom of use that will not be appealing to everybody because of its very lack of structure. At the same time, to fans, Pat Metheny's music represents a freedom of taste and an individuality that can be found nowhere else. His second solo was a much more rhythmic song that appealed to the audience. Since I am not very familiar with his music and because I did not expect much, I was astonished by the enthusiastic reception he im- mediately received from both pieces. After the solos, Billy Higgins and Charlie Haden were in- . troduced. Billy Higgins, a very well known drummer, provided e_x;cellent percussion sUpport for the Trio. Charlie Haden, bassist, gave a unique and appealing depth to the music. Charlie Haden has worked with Pat Metheny before, most recently on the Metheny album 80-81. Much of the music at this concert was from their newest album, Rejoicing. It is close to impossible to describe the music through comparison. Perhaps the best way is to describe how the instruments were used. In the loosely organized, pure music at- mosphere, the musicians could have a lot of fun. Energetic drum solos would fade into a bass piece by Haden, with Pat Metheny moving in and around the tune with his guitar. One of the guitars he used was a special type that could simulate a flute, horns, a piano and probably more. In what appears to be spontaneity is also superb control. Consisting of music that varied from seemingly for- mless. moody and loUd to light, happy ballads, there was something for every jazz en- thusiast. After the show, I spoke with him about his music and how different it is from mainstream jazz. Metheny stated: \I'm really fortunate in that people got hip to what I'm into; but if people never came to· my concerts I'm sure I'd still be playing the same thing.\ Another subject he mentioned was his past association with Joni Mitchell. The association brought Metheny more into the limelight, but Metheny didn't like the associated pressure. \I have trouble with that kind of stuff,\ he said. \I love the music, but the stuff that went along with it I would never do again.\ With him leaning against a wall casually talking with a bWlch of us, he remarked that under big concert con- ditions like with Joni Mitchell \we couldn't be standing here talking like this.'' Pat Metheny feels comfortable and at ease with small crowds. As the fi.tst concert of the tour, we were privileged to hear some hitherto unknown material. Impressed with the casual atmosphere and spon- taneity the trio showed, I asked how long .they had been prac- ticing. Metheny replied, \We didn't; we just got together tonight.'' I guessthat shows just- how spontaneous their music can be! That was the last question, because this in- dependent jazz musician had a craving for Italian food and w:as on his way out. Anxious to get back myself, I left the place of one of the most interesting shows I have been to in a long time. LJ sing ven mat1 60's othe sing song mak mak toucl hum W1 and year \No Fron cone' for r give time It'sh that enjol anct t that each LYJ

- . - ( I. Singer to do Benefit Lynn ·Miller is an excellent singer, s~mg writer who offers a very nice blend of original material, folk songs from the 60's and music of a nlUllber of other contemporary follt singers; song writers; old songs, new songs, songs to make you think, songs that make you !'aught songs that will touch you in a very human to · hUman way. While Lynn has been singing and writjng for some twenty years now, as. he puts it, he has \No . inclination toward fame. From -time to time I'll do a concert (sometimes'! even do it for money), but mostly I· just give it away and most of the time it's with small audiences. It's hard to develop a 'following' that way. People do- seem to enjoy what I <to with my m~ic and to me that's the only thing that matters, that we_ enjoy each other.\ · Lynnisa very large man with a very gentle spirit and he joins with his audiences in that same gentle,.natural way. He actively encourages the audience to participate but it goes beyond that. • 'I like ·to pull people out of themselves, toward . me and toward· each other. The thing Pm always consciously trying to do is to create: a feeling of coml1lunity, a feeling of 'We're all. in this together.' I'm con- stantly looking for the person who's hiding out there, too afraid to come out and par- ticipate. Then I'll work on them, very gently, to let them know that it's safe, that they can try it, that it '11 feel good if they'll sing along with the rest of us.\ He doesn't make you sing, he just makes it impossible for you to not sing. . It all happens very easily in the way he reaches out witb himself, bothin nismusic and in the sharing from his own per- sonal experiences that he does in the transitions between soqgs. Songs like his funny, .but serious \Cabbag(!. Patch Doll\ or · the really outrageous \Rooster Song\ loosen you up. Then his deeply personal \Grandma's Favorite Song-You are My Sunshine\ positively Lynn Miller, who will be appearing on Thu_rs., April26. . . Campus Bands Interested\ in playing for \Camp Union\ on Friday I May 25 please submit: -. DemoTape - List of band members 'Nith I.D. numbers To Box 64 or Box 1011 no later than May I 0! CONCORD/f.:'NS1S, Apri/26. 1984 Page 11 TH.E ARTS r Limon Compan.y to Appear melts you; there is just no way you can keep from singing. A typical response hear<-! from the audience: ·~He makes me feel special; like he and I, the two of us in this room full of people have shared something very personal. What's really nice is that just a·oout everyone in the room feels the same way, like the two of them have touched in some personal, in- timate way.\ It's so nice when he sings songs like Ruth Pelham's \I am a Woman,\ and gets the whole audience, men and' women, singing along. There aren't very many men who'll do that, take that kind of risk on stage and it works. What he creates is a very powerful, very .uplifting experience. Lynn will be appearing on Thursday, April 26, in · the Skellar. All proceeds will benefit the Emmanuel Com- munity Foundation of Schenectady. N·OTICE The Arts Page is now ae~e-pting photos 1 prose or poetry. Pl-ease The internationally renowned Jose Limon Dance Company will be on campus; Wednesday, May 2nd, for a lecture- demonstration and master class. Four Jeading dancers of the company will give a talk followed by a concert per- formance of Limon's \The Moor's Pavane\ in Nott Memorial Theatre, from 12:30- 1 :ao noon. The dance, choreographed in 1949 is con- Sidered one of Limon's masterpieces and has been May; His .Friend's Wife - Carla Maxwell; The Moor's Wife - Jennifer Scanlon. The Union performance is sponsored by the Arts and English Departments and the Minerva Committee. It is free and open to the campus. In the afternoon from 3:30- 5:00 there will be a master class in Limon technique in the Dance Studio, Arts 202. The class is free of charge to all Union students, and interested dan- cers should call Arts x6201 to Ill Ol ttl > ro ,_ ro v E 0 1- >- .n 0 0 .c 0.. submit to Concordy Office Tuesdays at 4:30 ·p.m. The Jose Limon Company performing \The Moor's Pavane\. performed by the . American Ballet Theatre, the Swedish Ballet, and the Joffrey as well as the Limon Company many times since Limon's death in 1972. ' The dance, subtitled \Variations on the Theme of OTHELLO\ has music by Henry Purcell arranged ~Y Simon Sadoff, and a cast of four: The Moor, danced by Carlos Orta; His Friend- Jim reserve a space. The company will also visit the SUNY A and Skidmore campuses and present an evening concert at the EGG during their capital area residency. This is the Jose Limon's second visit to the Union campus. In 1981 the Company was here for four weeks giving courses in Graduate Studies and Continuing Education. Union Arts Montage · began working on the play in S 'Lak· e·'S~neare COmeS Septe!Dber, research!ng a~d II r learmng about hfe m S 'l,. ~,I . 'n Shakespeare's time. This to nJumorc.- valuable knowledge pays off in The Skidmore Theater Deparl;ment's spring produc- tion of As You Uke It opens Thursday, April 26, with an 8 p .. m. performance. This lighthearted comedy .captures the mood of cow1ship in the magical forest of Arden, where everyone is good and wise and plays the fool and falls in love. From, courtly love to cow1 intrigue, the fast-paced a<?tion keeps up with the equally fast wit. Singing, dancing and wrestling round out a story everyone can enjoy. Shakespeare's words on love are as timely today as they were 400 years ago. No one needs to be a romantic, to un- derstand the appeal ·of the banished duke, the wise fool, the earthy shepherdess. and, of course, the young lovers. As You Like It is the senior project production .. Students every nuance of the show, from costumes to dances. As You Uke It is a delightful comedy of human foibles, a classic story of love at first sight. Attending this show may well make the most enjoyable evening of the year. As You Uke It runs Thursday, Apri126, through Saturday, April 28, and Wednesday, May 2 through Saturday, May 5. Performances are 8:00 each evening, plus a 2:00p.m. matinee on Saturday, April 28. Tickets are $3.50 general, $2.00 students and senior citizens. For reser- vations or further information call the Skidmore Theater Box Office, (518) 584-5000, ext. 347. \John Brown's Body\ \John Brown's Body,\ a theatrical adaptation of stephen Vincent Benet's famous poem about the civil war, will climax the university theatre season with three performances in the Studio Theatre of the SUNY A Performing Arts Center Thursday through Saturday, April 26, 27, and 28 at 8 p.m. Originally staged on Broadway with Tyrone Power, Judith Anderson and Raymond Massey, with a musical score by Fenno Heath, the poem begins with John Brown's at- tack on Harper's Ferry. and goes on through the Civil War, telling much of it from the points of view of a Northern soldier and a Southern soldier. Information and reservations are available by calling the University Performing Arts Center weekdays between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. at (518) 457- 8606. Tickets are $5 for . the. general public, $3.50 for students and senior citizens with a further discount for members of the SUNY A faculty and staff.

Page I 2 CONCOR/)/EN.'•j/S, Apri/.26. 198·1 CAMPUS NEWS SCHOLARSHIPS The National Endowment for the Hwnanities has announced a unique grants program for individuals under 21 to spend a summer carrying out their own non-credit humanities research projects. The Younger Scholars Program will award up to 100 grants nationally for out• standing research and writing projects in such fields as history, philosophy and the study of literature. These projects will be carried out during the summer of 1985. The application deadline is Sep- tember 15, 1984. For guidelines, write to: Younger Scholars Guidelines CN, Rm. 426, The National Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, D.C. 20596. The Capital District Chapter of the National Association of Women in Construction (NAWIC) No. 261 will soon be awarding its' fourth annual scholarship. · The award is given in the amount of $250 per semester for a total of $500 per recipient. It is awarded on the basis of need and scholastic achievement to full-time students in an ap- proved degree program related to the construction industry-ie., architecture, engineering, construction technology.· For more info contact the Financial Aid Office. · The Jewish Children's Ser- vice Organiz~tion (JCSO) offers need-based scholarships and loans to Jewish students from the Hartford, CT area on a continuing basis. For in- formation, write JCSO at PO Box 17-386, Bishop's Corner Branch, West Hartford, CT 06117. Region 1 of the National Association ·of College and University Food Services is offering a scholarship to a student who intends to pursu~ a degree in Food Service Administration or a related field of study. The basis for selection includes, but not primarily, need and academic achievement. More information is available in the Financial Aid Office. Applications for the Saxton, Porter, and Speir Scholarships to Albany Law School are available in Professor Board's office, Department of Political Science. Please do not submit an application unless you have been admitted to and are planning to attend, Albany Law School. Deadline f()r submission is June 15. Junior Economics and Related Maiors There will be a meeting for all students who will be writing a· senior thesis next year in economics 1 industrial economics, managerial economics or in an economics/xxx in· terdisciplinary field on Wednesday, May 2 at 4:00pm in SS 115 .. At that time 1 students will be asked to identify (approximately) their thesis topics and in· dicate preferences for an advisor. CAREER NEWS The National Taxpayers Union isseeking an editor for its national monthly newsletter, which has a readership of 100,000+. Readers include members of Congress and staff, state legislators, national media and political activists. Please let Mary Rodman in the CareerDevelopment Center know of any job offers (For Seniors) The Foreign & Domestic Teachers Organization needs teacher applicants in all fields fro~ Kindergarten through College to fill ov:er six hundred teaching vacancies both at home .and abrbad. Additional information is available by writing to: National Teacher's Placement Agency, UNIVERSALTEACHERS, Box 5231, Portland, Oregon 97208. INTERNSHIPS The Center for Study of Responsive Law: non-profit Ralph Nader organization that supports and conducts a variety of research and educational projects to encourage an inc creased awareness of the needs of the citizen constuner. Several writing and research in- ternships are available. The General Electric lnforma.tton Services Com- pany:· SUmm.er internship for computer science major (,going into ·senior year). Must have COBOL and FOR,TRAN training, be familiar with JCL (preferably Honeywell), have CRT terminal experience. Position is available June 1 through September. Apply as soon as possible. · The Environmental Planning LObby: sponsoring Legislative Internships in environmental politics for the fall. Applicants should have good written and oral communications skill, interest in legislative process, and dedication to en- vironmental protection. This internship focuses on research and runs from September 1, 1984-December 15, 1984. Deadline: May 1. Academic credit must be arranged · by applicant within his or her department. The Center for StUdy of. Respl}nsi.ve Law:· Several writing and research in- ternships available in non-profit Ralph Nader organization that supports and conducts a variety of research and educational projects to encourage an in- creased awareness of the needs of the citizen consumer. Openings at all times during the year. NY State Department of Social Services: summer in- ternships in Albany for Il)inority college students'. The 12 week, paid internships . will give in- dividuals valuable el{perience in the social services field. Applications are available in the CDC. CLUB NEWS. On April 28, 1984; the Union College Stone Boat Club and the · Eudson Valley Society of Civil and Construction Technicians will sponsor a .concrete canoe race at Lake Taghkanic State Park. Races will start promptLy \ ·Prere Canadiall· ' ,, .. · ... ·,_ < ... ··:. . . . ~},_ f . · ·· ,-~- -~-~-~'-.~1}~~fMlf~~!~·nft: :~ :::.:·-~~:.;.~~,f~-.;- ¥;----~~::=:..%! ~~:~~- ,;_ -·. S1F (:';;h·•· ,,,,,., ··'• n. ··.':li:;;.,,:,:,,;, , .... \'t \ Molson·····~ ; ... at 9:00 a.m. Engineering students fram schools in New York, New Hampshire, New Jersey, and. Ohio will be par· ticipating . .Anyone Who does not beJ.ieve that a canoe made entirely of concrete will float, should plan to attend, Bring a picnic lunch and enjoy the day.i For further information contact Prof. Tom Jewell at 370-6309~ or Earle Stokes at 370-6397. Bible Studya~Friday, April 27th; 4 p.m., Campus Ministry Office.. Sr. Joan will lead a study of and pray with the Gospel of Matthew. Theatre Party-Friday, April 27th to Proctor's to see Patricia McBride with the ·Berkshire Ballet. Meet in front of Carnegie at 7:15p.m. to pick up half price tickets with a student ID. Newman Folk Group-- Sunday, April 29th will meet in St. John's Churchat6:30 p.m. to rehearse before leading the congregation in song at 7:30 Mass. New.man Club Social-- Sunday, April 29th. The Newman Club Will host a social . AVAILABLE AT THE DUTCH HOLLOW PUB.:· The finest ale brewed and bottled in Canada. jmported· by Mardet lrnportin\l u;,, Inc., Great Neek, ~~Y .. © 1982. ~ - - inth p.m. COffii ning Ne Socii p.m. negi• - SPJ - - D1 '59) Scie Bra• ''Re, the Adn d~lh Mon AI Mac Ban \E1 In:ve 26, 1! Ball• ---- Trl .Lisbll furt, way. FRE alwa~ dolla1 Eum St.,H 6580. Tyj: profe exect servi proof1 Call J

; a .. sa in the Rectory following the 7:30 p.m. .Mass. AU are invited to come and relax: before retur .. nirtg to studying for mid-terms. Newman Club Meeting & Social-Monday, Apr,il 3oth, 8 p.m., 4th floor Lounge, Car- negie, · SPEAKERS. Dr. A~ Lee Fritschler (Union, '59) will .deliver the Political Science Department's Annual Brackett lecture on the ~Qpic of \Regulation-De-regulation in the Carter and :Reagan Administrations.'' He will d~liver the lecture at 3:30 .p.m., Monday, April.30 in S.S. 115. Alfred Scott, President, Scott- Macon, Ltd. ( Investm~nt Bankers) will speak on \Entrepreneurship- and Investment Banking\ on April 26, 1984-3:45 p.m. in Room 312, Bailey Hall, Union CoJlege. CLASSIHEDS Travel to Rome, Athens, .Lisbon, London, Paris, Frank- furt, etc. from only $99 each way. Call riow or send for your FREE brochure. Operators always on duty. Enclose one dollar for postage and handling. Europe Express, Inc. 346(). Main St., Hartford, CT06120 (203) 522- 6580. Typing-Papers typed with professional result~ by executive secretary. Fast service and accurate proofreading at $1 per page. Call Judy 399-3383. Typing done for students. Please contact 346-5104 Niskayuna area Please contact 355 .. 3239 Knows medical terminology Please contact 377-4215 Scotia area. NEED CASH? Earn $500+ each school year, 2-4 (flexible) hours per week placing and filling posters on campus. Serious workers only; we give recommendations. Call now for summer and next fall. 1-80()-243 ... 6679. The National Guitar Summer Workshop (NGSW) will begin its 1984 season in New England on July 21st. The NGSW ls a series of one-week long in- tensive guitar workshops. An outstanding faculty of professional performers-tea- chers ·will conduct cou~es in Rock, Classi~al, Jazz, Bluegrass, Folk-Blues (fingerpicking) and Bass. ·For more information con- tact: Mr. David Smolover, Director, NGSW, Dept. C, Bo~ 222, Lakeside, Connecticut, 06758, or call 203-567.,8529. There will be a meeting for all students who will· be writing a senior thesis nex:t year in econo'mics, industrial economics, managerial economics or in an economics- interdisciplinary field. • on Wednesday, May 2.at 4:00 p.m. in SS 115. At that time, students will be asked to identify ( ap- proximately) :their thesis topics and indicate preferences for an .advisor. C(JNCORDIENS/S, Apri/16, 1984 Page 13 CAMPUS NEWS A Gospel Concert will be pr-esented by fifty-four mem- bers of The Salvation ArmY Youth Band, Timbrels and Chorus from Northeastern Ohio at The Salvation Army, 222 Lafayette Street, Schenectady, New York on Friday:, Aprll27, 1984 at 7: 30 p.m. Admission is free and the public is welcome. The Film Committee Presents: The Empire Strikes :Back on April27-29 at 7:30 and tO.in SS · 016, Admission is $1. Gospel ..... Tuesday May 1 at 7, 9 and 11. Free in SS 016. The Last Waltz- on May 2 at 7, 9 and 11. Admission is $1 and it will be in SS01~. PERSONALS Dear Phi Alph~'s: Get psyched. Only a little while left. Love, the sisters of DG · Hey Delta Gamma! Get psyched for the '84 OLYM- PICS!!! Dear Ern, You said that you wanted one so here it is. Love ya, a friend who likes to hang out in bars in Ardsley, N.Y. Dearest Rick and Ron, . I crave both of your bodies. Wben can we get together? All my love, Gary Dear Smell, Her:e's to giving up the life of academia for the life of a wild party animal. Cheer up ... It's SPRING! ! ! ! . Happy Birthday Wendy Bee. With the h()pes that things will be buzzillg tonite! Remember classes are cancelled for you tomorrow! E. Rachel-1 don't care what it seems like; we KNOW the real story and we know that this is but a short chapter ( ! ) in the book of life ... just turn the page and keep reading. I love your.- S. So, I turned to him and I said, \Babe you'd look so good ii1 jeans and a shirt.\ Yes, I was dressing· him with my eyes and couldn't keep still about it any longer-~the ultimate com- pliment, being dressed by my eyes. Chicklet-can we get personal before we get physical? Dear Gregg, These past few weeks have been the most beautiful weeks in my life. Let's make bouillabaise, baby. Love, RH Wanted: One legal and respectable. job for graduating English major. Preferably upwards of$60,000 per year with· opportunity for' advancement. Contact Renee, Box 1098 S.D.-Don't call the police. Don't get the FBI. If you want to see umbrella alive again, leave $10,000 in the men's room in Butterfield. -The Tote fiend. Flo+ Bon Chance. pour une medecin future. -Karen & Nancy Dear Noogie, Good Luck on your MCAT, we're sure Stanley is going to miss you. Love, Ka & Nance . Dave, Joe, Rob, and Tom- Good luck on Saturday. Love, Rachel Karen (Sweetie), Thank you for believing in us! I . LOVE YOU! -Waiting Paid Off SMN, Thanks for being such a good friend. GLR Florence, Good luck Saturc day! Remember Tanquel'ay is waiting for you. Love, Sue B. Dina, Thanks a lot for the past four wonderful months. You have helped create numerous memories which will never be forgotten. The time we spend together is very specd.al, and I am looking forward to spending more time with you in the future. Love ya, Mo MURAT, MURAT! Where is my MURAT??! Oh Nina, if you only knew! Steve----------Thanks for everything Dave Russ------Thanks for everything Kenny Sleeping Beauty ... To almost seven months ... pinball, skellar nights and forever ... ! Love You ... Silly goose Bestest Pal, Here's to not grazing in the pasture ... We love you ... Krazi and Gerby Steve, \Rockabye Stevie on the beddie by ... when SP and KZ together Stevie won't cry ... cute huh ... bye bye Eliphalet. . .love ya Kath ''The Most Exciting New Bar in Downtown Schenectady'' Dave, I know, don't tell me, you've got to go to the bathroom. ·- Dave, Didn't your morn ever tell you not to play with mat- ches???? Happy Hour Everyday 4-7 p.m. Firsty, For your first All- Campus party as social chairman-Job well done!!!!!! Free Hors D 'oeuvres .----------·Redeem for:·-----------, I · • I SlAPS HOTS 1 · 1 Free Cocktail : I h d• I · Thursday · : per person wit · · mner ! ! . with Student' I D : ICED ·TEAS ---MtrNRJ\(f~ffN __ _ . ·.$1.00 iE·~~IH~~~IE 605 Union Street May 1st Sigma Chits Third Annual ' 1 Pu·nk 'Til You P 'k ,, p· .. ty u e . ar Punk Attire Requested 10:00~? SENIORS: \ The Class of 1984 cordially invites Seniors and their friends to indulge·in \A Touch o[Class, \a formal gathering to be held at 1'he historic and elegant Gideon Putnam, in Saratoga. This gala af- fair marks the initiation of the rejoicing in the. culmination of our four years at Uni.on College. It denotes a beginning, not an end. It is a celebration of ourselves. The event 'Nil I be held on May 18, 1984, at 9 p.m. Tickets are on sale to Seniors only, at $10.00 per person. Seniors may purchase tickets for underclassmen, provided they are over 19 years of age~ This price entitles the bearer to two drinks, hors d'oeuvres, music/ dancing, and fun. We request proper attire to befit the occasion, and look forward to seeing you there. ' .

Page 14 . ,·' ('ON( '0/lDIEN.\'/,\~ Aprill6. IWU • • ro ess1ona OVIn n tora e 0 -·.m··. __ ·. • . I ' '' Created With Students In M:ind Door to Door Moving •· Service available .to anywhere· in the United States · • Specializing in service to the Boston and New York Metropolitan regions. • Home.from sch·ool in the spring, back to school in the fall. Summer Storage • ASM wi II p-ick up your belongings at your room or apartment, store th.em for the summer and return them to -your new residence upon your return in the fall. ' American . Student Moving·, .Inc. •• Fully Insured Boxes Available * Accept No Less *Pay No More in Albany 434-6655 .·· or 1-800-448-7878 - - c pia Atl1 Mo Du1 Ski, Mo: thr holl N thai Iac1 ove Rm ChVI goa: fem pro1 Rob two retu add1 Che Sch Schi Bon Levi goal Lobt Mi toug worr. Cont (2). TI real mor the scor thel Unic be hi pi tel only out defe1 addi give hit 0 thre1 RBI werE seco righ1 basE base shor Lo cont1 first squa tearr in die strer defe1 threE w.hic in erE base: .four shorl and( Zacc one I had1 Dola: base1 first four nanu driv1 beau play; third Walle time to th lnJ ofth of th

By DREW HURLEY Sports Staff Congratulations to softball player Angie Miczek for .gaining Athlete of the Week honors .• Monday Angie led the 1 ... 4 Dutchmen to a 25'-5 thrashing of Skidmore College. All she did in Monday's game was go 4-5 with three singles, a, two ru,n homerun, and five R.B.I. 's. She CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/16, 1984 Athlete of the Week scored three runs herself, made two putouts, and .had eight assists~ On the season she has a .600 batting average with seven runs scored. Miss Miczek is also Union's premier pitcher. She gave up only eight hits against S~idmore and has started all five of Union's games, completing four of them. Angie currently sports a 3.86 earned run average and a l-3 record. Miczek, . currently attends Albany College of Pharmacy after transferring from Springfield College. She is a native of Saratoga Springs where at Saratoga High she was a three-year M.V.P. of her softba:Uteamand the volleyball team's M.V.P. bet senior year. Good luck to softball for the remainder of the season. SPO ScottWykoH On Sports --Bobby Knight-· The world of sports is packed commands, grabbing players full of flamboyant characters by the i erseys and even drop and Indiana University'& Bobby kicking anything from a ball to Knight has kept many a .sport- a chair. Off the court the 6hio swriter busy with his antics State University graduate has both on 11nd off the court. Last not been one to avoid con- week the 43-year-old coach was troversy. At the 1979 Pan not his usual self. While over 60 American Games in Puerto of the United States brightest Rico Knight was arrested for young basketball players allegedly striking a cop at a scratched and clawed for a spot closed team practice session. on our Olympic B·asketball Even in his dealings with the Team, Knight spent the week .press, Knight maintains his perched 25· feet above Indiana attitude of no holds barred. \All University's Fieldhouse as . ofuslean1towrite in the second W. Lax Romps RPI By SPORTS STAFF Nine players scored 14 goals that guided the women's V. lacrosse team to a 14-4 victory over RPI last Friday. Lorna Rushforth was the Dut- chvvornen's high scorer with 3 goals in the game. A fine of- fensive performance was also provided by defensive player Roberta Stein who. registered two goals. Kathy Furst, just returning from an ankle injury, added 2 as did sophomore Cherly Washburn. Janet Schieferdecker, Erica Schnitzer, Laurie Bidstrup, Bonnie Faulkner and Beth Levine all added 1 goal, while goalies Heidi Kahn and ·Monica Lobel played admirably. Middlebury proved to be a tougher opponent as the Lax women were defeated 12-4 last -softbal'l Continued from page 16 (2). The teams fourth game was a real heartbreaker. Union had more hits than Russell Sage, but ·the Sage team managed to score two runs in the bottom of the last inning to beat Union 5-4. Union played a beautiful .game behind the accurate and fast pitching of Miczek, who walked only three batters while striking out four and made numerous defensive plays throughout. In addition she slUgged a double to give Union its only extra base hit of the game and knocked in three out of four of Union's RBI's. Hitting singles for Union were centerfielder Man'gino (2), second baseman Bailey, rightfielder Linda Gutin, first baseman . Richards, third baseman JoAnne Dolan, and shortstop Petro. Lo and behold in their fifth contest 1 and their long awaited first home game, tlle Union squad trounced the Skidmore team. The final score 21-5 was indicative of the Union women's strength both offensively and defensively. Pitcher Miezek had three singles, one hoxp.erun, w.hich combined knocked in an incredible five . RBI'S; second baseman Bailey went 4-4 with four singles and one RBI; · shortstop Petro had one single and one RBI. Star catcher Gina Zaccardo had one single and one RBI; centerfielder Mangino had two singles; third baseman Dolan added an RBI ·first ~aseman Nia Cholakis, 'in her first season start went. 4-5 with four singles and an RBI to her name. Cholakis was also the driving . force behinc,l a beautifully executed double Pl~y; last but not least, relief th1rd baseman Meader l!alloped a home run. in her only tune at bat adding three RlU's to the Union cause. In general the )Vin-l9ss record of the team is a false indicator of the teams playing prowess. - Monday under a near-capacity crowd. Union had a. tough time getting the ball past midfield, but Rebecca Clemente broke through the Middlebury defense late in the first half to score Union's first goal. The game looked more promising early in the second half as senior co- ..,: captain Cay Lynch and ~ defensive wing Carolyn JUibert ~ • broke Middlebury's defense o .... . with 1 goal each. The Dut- _g cbwomen's last goal was scored a. by Loma Rushfortll in the middle of the second half. The defense, including Roberta Stein,· Julie Fitzsimmons, Elaine Pick, Carolyn Gilbert, Cheryl . Washburn and Sally Carey created quite a few turnovers, which could prove to be a factor in the game against Russell Sage tonight at 7:00 on the turf. Defensively, Union has a strong team With standouts pitcher Miczek and Petro who has a golden glove at the shortstop position. In addition to Miczek and Petro, players like Dolan, Richards, Bailey, Mangino, Gutin, Zaccardo, Meader, Hallar, · Weiner, Cholakis, Melissa Viglielmo, Amy Stake and Ruth Ewing combine to make up the Union squad. Coach Charlyn Robert feels that the youth of the team has been a cause of some of the disorganization suffered by Union. Only two players, Petro and Richards have played all their years exclusively at one position while other veterans have been shuffled around over the past few years to fill gaps left by graduating seniors. Angie Miczek Intramural Spot )!lr ByG.W, Sports Staff !fhe wrestling tournament is the highlight of this week's Intramural Spotlite Award. This special · event included eight. competitors in three weight classes. In the light- weight division, Andy Reindel of Sigma Phi pinned John McCormick to capture tqe title. The middleweight class proved most competitive with four fairly even wrestlers. Dave Rowan defeated Rob Frankfurt 5-3, while -Eric Feingold edged Todd Petree 4-2. Both Dave and · Eric were too tired to head-to- head and Eric won on the fliP. of a coin. Steve Wall pinned ·· T J Bailey in the closing minutes to take the heavyweight cham- pionship. Special thanks_ to all the participants. - quiet as a young boy at dancing grade and most of us go on to school. Knight left the X's and other things,\ remarks Knight O's home and merely observed. in response to his many critics Bobby Knight merely o.b- in the press. serving? Monday mortling the Knight will be the first one to Olympic coach announced his admit that he doesn't condone roster cuts and believe me when · allhe does but he will admit that those 20 players return to his job is to do whatever he has Bloomington for a mini camp in to do to win. If the U.S. squad May the tower and muzzle will wins the gold in L.A., Knight be gone. . will join Pete Newell and Dean Knight still harbors the Smith having coached teams to memories of the 1972 Olympics the NCAA, NIT and Olympic in Munich that snapped the Championships. Knight has uncanny string of 68 straight been putting 20-hour work days wins by .the Americans in in preparation for the Olympic Olympic competition. He looks - Games an~ has even com~ up forward to getting even with the with a 75-page confidential Russians at L.A. and returning scouting report on our friends the gold medal to its rightful from tbe East. home, no matter what it takes. The,battle for the gold in L.A. The unanimous selection of the will be hard fought but watch Olympic Conunittee has been out world, for the man with the often-criticized for his antics on loud mouth and plaid sports and off the court. Many see his jackets has vowed to ensure brass ben-ch demeanor as that in 1988 the Americans will detrimental to ,the game and be able to prepare for the uncalled for. Olympic Games, like they have During a contest Knight can so often before, as the defending be .seen constantly yelling out champions. ..... __________________ _ I WlN.G WAG-ON I I ~-,~~ ~;.0, II I - ~;~~: _ ·.~J~-~~. 827 McClellan Street I \' - ~ ~ Schenectady 1 'i . llaiLda Style 1 Chicken W1Dg3 1 1 Monday-Thursday 11am-1am 1 I Friday-Saturday 11am-2:00am II Sunday 12pm-12am Order By Phone or Eat In 1 ·I 393-01~4 --------~ I 1 Buy 20or MoreWings and I 1 Get 1 o. FREE I I Good thru·Ma.y 2nd (except Wed. nights) . I ···-·····------------ .. But now. that the team has tasted victory the rest of the season looks bright. The team will be playing at home against Siena on Thursday April 26th (TODAY), and on Monday April 3oth against RPI. The games are played on Library Field and start at 3:30 so come out and support the team. We'll see you ----- ......... ·Rugby •.. zone. Syracuse seven down for long as one of its backs brok~ through for a try just before the half ended. The conversion was completed and the score .at half was 10-6 Union. In the second half Syracuse was awarded another try and the conversion put the Orange out in .front for the first ti.Jne in the game by a score of 12•10. Determined not to lose,. the Gamet seven pulled it back together. It was here that Cole made his run diving into the try-zone for Union's victory by a score of 14-12. there. .\ Tomorrow Night Have Some Fun in the Sun Chi Psi's 11th Annual Charity Party Luau at fhe Lodge Friday, April 27th Dancing • Games • Food • Drink Tickets $2 in advance $3 at the door Proceeds are tobenef'it: The National Hemophilia & Dystonia Foundations· Continued from page 16 row showing. In the B game, the story was completely different. The .Killer B's, who bave. so tho.roughly dominated their opposition the past two games, were at it again as the squad defeated Syracuse's second team by a score of 18-4. As the score in- dicates,-the entire game was. dominate4 by the Gamet. In the f~rst half, the hometeam sprang out to an early, lead of 4-0, but this did not inhibit the B's from crushing the Orange. Soon after the Syracuse score, the ball was worked down into Syracuse's end through persistant Union kicking. It was here that fresh- man hooker Dave Blee scored his first try by pouncing on a. loose ball, and the score was even at four. Again before the half Union made good a scoring opportunity. Tltis time it was Blee initiating the try· after he blocked a Syracuse boot allowing Mike Lightman his first. try of. the season after he . jumped on it in the Syracuse try After the half, Union with its 8-4 lead could not be stopped. Two further easy-handed tries were more than enough to put the victory well in hand. Mike Katz scored after a run from a long way out by breaking through several Syracuse defenders for a third Gamet try. The 'final try of the game came by Union's Steve Con- nally. John Foster converted this last one and the Killer B's raised their record to 3-1 with · this 18-4 win. To cap the afternoon off, Union was invited to participate in a game of Sevens. This en- during, fUll-field game iS played in ten lllinute halves with seven players to a side. Here the score was tight, but the Garnet managed to .pull the victory out in the closing minutes after a try by Steve Cole and a tough . goal-line stance just as time eXpired. Union put itself on tbe board first after a break away run by Scott Collins; and with Summers making good the conversion the score was at 6-0. Soonafter it was Cole who scored his first try of the game to raise Union'-s score to ten. Yet this did not keep the An in all it was an exciting day for Union Rugby. This upcoming weekend the ClUb will participate in the New York Upstate Union Rugby Tour- nament. Here all dubs in the Upstate Region; from Renn- salaer to :Buffalo, will be bat- tling to be number one. Needless to say, the Gamet Will be seeing some skilled op- position. Last year the team lost in the semi finals. The games will played at Collins Park in Scotia all day Saturday and Sunday, and the Union RFC would gladly welcome any support it can get. Good luck Garnet.

1- (k: >- .0 0 ~ 0 .c:: Q.. Page/6 .s TS ('ONCOH/)J/:'NSIS. Apri/26, 1984 Dutchmen SportsWeek April 26-May 3. Softball Trounces Skidmore Thursday, 4126 Today! Golf--at Williams w/ A1C, 1 p.m. Softball- vs. Siena., 3:30p.m., Library Field Women's Lacrosse-·vs. Russell Sag,e, 7 p.m., Turf ByG.O.O.T.Z. Sports Staff The Union Coll~ge Women's Softball team has gotten off to a somewhat inixed start this season. In their first game, against Siena, Union came away with a 9-5 loss. It's im· portant to note however .that both of Union's scrimmages were rained out and it was Siena's fourth season game~ Siena scor.ed six runs in the Haller, first baseman Patty Richards, shortstop Peg Petro (co-captain), and rightfielder Lyla Meader. Bailey, Haller and Petro contributed an RBI a piece, and .Miczek and Richards each stole a base. In their next game against Albany State, always a tough team to beat, Union held Albany scoreless for five innings. Out ahead 7-0 Union pfayed an errorless game; with pitcher 1\f\o sportsfans, it's. not Daryl Strawberry~ but senior Nia Cholakis taking.a cut in softba.ll action vs. Skidmore. bottom of the first, a lead which Miczek allowing only one hit, they never lost. After the first until the sixth inning. At that inning however Union outscored point Union switched pitchers Siena 4-3. Offensively the hits and a few runs scored; as their for Uni(m were provided by lead lessened Union saw Miczek pitcher Angie Miczek, return to the mound. Despite designated hitter Barb Bailey her attempt to get Union out of a (co-captain), leftfielder Jeannie tight spot, the Union defense Tracksters Stand At 3-2 ByG.W. Sports Staff The Men's Track Team im- proved their record to 3-2 following a double win in a tri- meet with Hamilton and Mid· dlebury, and a dual meetloss to Albany State. In the tri-meet, double wins were turned in by . speedster transfer Tod~ Allen ; in the 100 and 200, and by weightman Spot Remillard in the hammer and discus. other wins wel\e turned in by Todd Lafayette (longjurnp), B<>b Bertagna {triplejump)~_ Bruce Witherspoon (high jump), Bill Lichtmar. (javalin), Chilly Phil Gist ( 400 ). Bob Mohlar (800), and captains Gary Wenner (polevault) and .Mark Dunn (shotput). A few key personnel were missing in the loss to Albany, but fine performances were turned in by Lafayette, Allen, and Dunn. Union's diversity shined with scoring by O'Donnell in the steeplechase and Wenner in the 110 and 400 hurdles. The men faired well this past weekend in the chilly weather at Hartwick, and look forward to the Union and Dartmouth Open's. . Some notable performances were turned in by the women when they defeated Middlebury but lost to Hamilton. Jenny Snover, making her farewell appearance of the year, cap- tured the highjump and Andrea Greif took the 100. Jenny Diiorio and Gigi Giodano both captured two events to help with the scoring. · Lady Ruggers In Tourn. ByUCWRFC Sports Staff Last week the Union College Women's Rugby Football Club kicked off their season with a disappointing loss to a tough Hamilton squad. . The women ruggers played a very aggressive game, keeping the Hamilton score down to only one successful \try.\ Union's serum totally outclassed the Hamilton scl'1lJIIlilies, winning almost every serum down and line-out it came up against. The Union Women Ruggers sustained virtually no injuries while inflicting massive pain to the Hamilton girls. The UCWRFC is eagerly looking forward to the Upstate Rugby Tournament being held this Saturday, April28 at Collins Park in Scotia, NY. Games are scheduled at various times throughout the day, .so come on down to Collins Park and cheer on the Union Men's and Women's Rugby Clubs. found itself faultering. During the long and error-ridden bottom of the sbr;th inning the Albany team Scored nine runs. Unable to score in their last at bat the Union team· walked . away with a 9.:.7 loss added to their record. The loss, however, · doesn't reflect the tl\ue ability of the Union players. Hitting well for Union were Petro (2 singles, 3 RBI' s), and third co-captain JoAnne Dolan (a double}. other RBI's were knocked in by Haller, Robin Weiner, and Lyla Meader. Miczek and Haller demonstrated their . speed by stealing a base each. In their third outing the Union team met up with the Williams College Women's Softball club team. Again the final score, Williams 7 Union 3, does not present a good picture of the Union players' abilities. Union and Williams each had seven hits but Union couldn't seem to capitalize on their baserunners. Moreover, and this may seem like a trivial matter, the um- pires were less than capable. This becomes evident when you look at the statistics, the ·union pitcher gave up 12 walks, more than she'd given up in the other two games combined {but her pitching was in good form.) The e,Ora baserwmers for Williams made a big difference in the game. A few questionable calls by the field umpire added to Union's frustration. On the brighter side, the hits for Union were credited to Miczek (2 singles), Haller, Richards, and catcher Gina Zaccardo with a single each. The big hitter of the day was shortstop Petro who, in addition to a single, clocked the ball for a triple. Responsibility for the RBI's goes to Petro (1), and centerfielder Kim Mangino Continued on page 15 Friday, 4/27 · BasebaTI-·vs. Hamilton,·3 p.m., B Diam011d Tennis~ at Colgate, 3 p.m. Saturday, 4/28 Men's & Wome,n's Outdoor Track--Union Open, Noon Rugby--Upstate Rugby Tourn., Jumpin' Jacks Park, All Day_ Baseball Double'header--at Middlebury, 1 p.m. Women's Lacrosse--at Hamilton, 1 p.m. Softball -at Hamilton, 1 p.m. Men;s Lacrosse--at Hamilton, 2 p.m. Sunday, 4/29 BasebaH Doubleheader--at Norwich, 11:30 a.m. . Monday, 4/30 Baseball-·vs. St. Lawrence, l p.m., Capital Dist. Area., site TBA Golf-·Vs. Utica, 1 p.m., Mohawk G.C. Softball··vs. R:P I, 3:30p.m., Ubrary Field Women's Lacrosse·-atOneonta, 3:30p.m. Tennis-·vs. Albany St. 3p.m. Tuesday 5/1 Baseball--vs. Albany, 3 p.m .. , Central Park Men's Lacrosse--at Siena, 4p.m. Men's Track--at Albany St., 'N/Hartwick, RPI 3 p.m._ -GARNETSCOREBOARD- BAS~BALL {2-2) MEN'S LACROSSE (3-5) Middlebury 8 RP·I 11 WOMEN'S LACROSSE (5-3) Union 14 Middlebury 14 SOFTBALL ( l-3) Union 5 Union7 RPI4 Union 4 Russell Sage 5 Union 21 Union 4 Skidmore 5 TENNIS (1-3) Skidmore 7 Union 2 MEN'S TRACK (3-l) Hartwick 1 nvy 79 pts. 3rd of 15 WOMEN'S TRACK (1-1) Hartwick lnvy. 6 pts. 14th of 15 RUGBY (2-2) Syracuse 13 Union 10 Championship Tourney Sat •. • • Buggers Drop To .500 ByUCRFC Sports Staff This past weekend the Union RFC journeyed to Syracu,se and came away with another af- tern<>on of good rugby. Playing against a big strong Orangemen Club, the Garnet ruggers did more than hold their own as they finished Saturday off with two victories after dropping a close one .. The A teatn, fired up and ready to meet its challenge, came out to, receive the opening kick-off and immediately the Garnet defense was ready to manhandle any Syracuse scoring attempt. (It .is im· portant to note that unlike American football where the kick-off is to the benefit of the .receiving team, a kick•off in rugby is to the benefit to the kicking team.) The home squad quickly gained advantage, but Union was there to make the tackle. However, as soon as tbe Gamet regained possission, its fleetfooted backs along with the pursuing forwards rapidly moved the ball deep into Orange territory .. After some sloppy loose ball play by Syracuse, Union's Steve Testo grabbed possession and brought it down for his first try of the season. Meade Swmners cc.nverted the extra-point kick and the visiting ruggers were up by- six. This lead lasted until \the final minutes of the first half. The Orangemen developed an overload and their outside center was free to break loose for a try. The conversion was successful and the score was tied at halftime at 6--6. . The second half was marked by continuous pressure by Union; yet, the Garnet failed to get the -breaks it needed. Syracuse did break the on- coming pressure twice as it converted two drives for ad- ditional scores increasing its lead to 13--6. With time its biggest opposition at this point in the game, the A team stor- med back in an attempt to pull out a victory. Penalties and mistakes were all that held the -Garnet back from its third win in a row. One further Union score was made tough. This one came off a pass from Testo to John Friske who put it down for the second Union try of the game. Time, however, ran out before the Garnet had another opportunity to penetrate the Syracuse try-line and the score stood at 13-10. Notes of significance should go this week to two players in the Union serum, which dominated the Syracuse serum the entire ball game: Gene Gass for his exceptional hooking and Pete Ladd for his solid second Continued on page 15 -- ~ . The men's lacrosse team lost two games this week facing a tough Middlebury ·squad last Wednesday and R PI on Friday night. Despite the losses, the 3-5 Dutchmen are aiming at a strong finish this season. f-: 0! >- .a 0 .... 0 J: 0. >- ¥ Ill c: E It) ~ > I.. I.. It) .J >- .0 £ 0 ..c:: 0. -- -- Stu Pa H In Con• forl Johr has po\i' poli phy! autl ager arre 11 resu fern: an Afte curr that sub: crin obje pre\ Who dan! mm Tl expl onl~ em~ non· not che< M com Oppt bee; disc reqt poU. clud coll• agai was can: peti1 sect mur stu' staf nun the is g to tl Tl the disc plar that SUe! all e not mer H poU plat

