··- wait for 80-64. Tom added shot ail while to just 43 Dutchmen for the ECAC ago to been em- by the had been of the were ~ore. The forcing ~all two first 11 Kevin led as they 20 points. right second to oops. Ken straight with ~ opening Harrison knot the ~h team another as 30-30. by Ken sitting of points Kevin The from a6- foulline. second a 38-32 The ~r as Mo jumper, to 44-40 game. ~next 19 a 55-48 to ghamton with on the a from as the Barker to a seconds first in a ~of 50.4. by a walker meter tinle . CXIV, No. 1.7 ~ >- ..0 0 .... 0 .s:::. Q. Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, discusses the new outdoor party policy. • Schenectady, New York Policy Revised .•. • Bulk Rate U.S. Postage );laid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 April 11, 1985 Spring Parties to Change By MAUREEN COLEMAN News Editor In compliance with a new outdoor party policy issued by the Student Affairs Office, live amplified music-with the ex- ception of Camp Union and Fitzhugh Ludlow Days-will no longer be permitted on campus. Camp Union will be held on campus with live bands as in previous years, and Fitzhugh Ludlow Day wiU feature live music outdoors as usual. However, any other outdoor parties with bands must be held at Girling Center, and any recorded music on campus must be contained within a limited area which will not disrupt the community or the rest of the campus. Mammola states that \it is not the Administration's goal to ruin the social life on campus,\ but that they are under pressure from the community to make the changes. Assistant Dean of Students, Robert Massa, em- phasizes that ''we must recognize the fact that we're members of a community at large ... This is a college. It's not Woodstock.'' According to Massa, Union Attends NMUN Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, argued that the \proliferation\ of outdoor parties in the spring, which were \initially great ideas\ have progressed to a series of \mini-Camp Unions every weekend\ through May. He pointed out that this has resulted in a large number of off-campus complaints: \what's enjoyable to college students on campus may not be enjoyable to Schenectady residents in their living rooms.'' discussion on outdoor parties began last spring following Camp Union and Greek Week. Hoping for a compromise which would reduce complaints without affecting the social life on campus, Massa met with By TOD DIMMICK Staff The first week of Spring term at Union does not seem to be the time tQ go to New York City. But for six Union students and other college students from across North America, New York was the place to be last week for the National Model United Nations (NMUN). The NMUN is the largest event of its kind. This year the session hosted over 160 delegations and over 1500 people. Union, representing The Republic of Ireland, sent six delegates: Eric Cook, Tod Dimmick, Amy Rine, Joe Serada, John Sesonske and Craig Shalmi. The Union aelegation, sponsored by the International Relations Club and the Political Science Department, spent many hours in preparation and research for the NMUN. Successful Delegates? In order for a delegation to be successful, the delegates must not only be intimately aware of their country's political history and associations, they must also understand and be able to use this knowledge to discuss and vote on specific current issues. Each delegation had the op-- portunity to meet with their country's actual mission to the United Nations in order to discuss these is~ues. Delegates divided to participate in United Nations committees such as the First Committee of the General Assembly (disarmament .and related issues), the Special Political Committee of the General Assembly, the Com- mission on Human Rights and the United Nations Conference on Trade · and Development Committee. Each committee, of about 100 people, discussed specific matters of world concern. The Special Political Committee, for instance, discussed the World Refugee proJ;»Iem, the Question of Cyprus and the Central American Peace Process (The Contadora Process). For the Central American issu,e, Ireland followed cl()sely with the rest of the European Community (EC), which would not go against the United States in most situations. Thus the EC makes few condemnations but supports the Contadora Process, so as not to conflict with overwhelming United States interest in the area. The Soviet Union, by contrast, promptly asserted that every problem in Central America was the result of capitalist, imperialist United States' policies. Iran said much the same thing. Any resolution put forth by those countries had elements aimed at thwarting the United States. (Conversely, western bloc resolutions at- tempted to stop Soviet in- fluence.) Amidst the hue and cry, the small nations of Central America itself attempted to hold on to their ability to control themselves. For each issue resolutions for the solution of the described problems were put forth by nations or blocs of nations. As debate over the merit of proposed resolutions became more intense, it became in- creasingly clear that the solutions were often secondary to the detennination of some countries to oppose the at- tempts of certain other coun- tries. In order to gain the consensus of a large enough voting bloc to get a resolution passed, clauses that were ob- jectionable to some had to be dropped. Thus the content of resolutions that were finally passed often did not support what any one country would have liked to see happen. As in the real United Nations, one could see why it is very difficult to achieve swift and decisive action on any issue. For the United Nations, as for the NMUN, the redeeming good must be that any action taken is supported by the \world community through the United Nations.\ Valuable Experience The experience of the NMUN was very valuable for an those \We must recognize the fact that we're who participated. The week was members of a community at large .... well-organized and par- . . ttctpation rn the program -gave- ·This -is-a college. It's not Woodstock.\ Union students a much greater -M· assa understanding of the somewhat enigmatic processes of the United Nations and a greater understanding of Ireland, , the country Union represented. It was a time to meet people from _ all over the country, and although the committee sessions did require a lot of time, there was opportunity to take some free time. Every night ther& was a \reception\ where everyone got together to dance. There is certainly plenty to do around Park Avenue at Grand Central Station! The NMUN was worth the time it took. those he considers \significant others\. Mammola also stresses that the Administration consulted student organizations including a Student Forum committee, members of Social Committee, the Concert Committee Chairman, and Mrs. Lorraine Marra, Coordinator of Student Activities. Massa, satisfied that the decision fulfills his objectives, feels that the new policy will not significantly change the nature of Union's sociallife because \it simply limits outside parties with bands.\ He expects that recorded music will be easier to turn down in the event of complaints. Anyone interested in the National Model United Nations nen year, or the International Relations Club, should contact Eric Cook or Professor Klunk in the Political Science Depart- ment. In addition, the Colfege must comply with a noise ordinance passed last September which, Mammola explains, requires that noise be kept \reasonable\. The Administration has received on- campus complaints as well; some students find that suc- cessive weekend parties disrupt their studies. Vandalism and general \trashing\ of dorms also presented problems last year, p_atticularly at West College. Mammola notes that alcohol abuse, while not an overwhelming factor in this issue, is always a concern, and that the administrators must address such problems as underaged drinkers and the conspicuous presence of out- siders. Several students representing student organizations, however, Continued on page 2 -. ,, ~r~ The Arts Building with all its new renovations will be dedicated this Saturday. There will be an • Open House for the public at 11 :DO a.m. We Are The World Reviewed in the Arts Section *-Pagenine-* Ruggers Continue Reign See Sports •-Page sixteen-* '- (!) ..0 ::::> 1.. <.!) \0 ·:;: iO Cl > .D 0 ..... 0 .s:::. c.

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/11, 1985 Writer Welch Speaks By JAN BARAN News Editor Welch is a Blackfoot Indian how he could write a novel of Poet and novelist James Welch, a Blackfoot Indian discussed Contemporary Fiction Apr.il3, 1985. On Wednesday, April 3, 1985, novelist and poet James Welch came to Union and spoke before an audience of students, faculty, and administrators on \Writing Contemporary Fiction.'' His visit to Union was sponsored by the English department and was made possible with support from Poets and Writers, Inc., funded by the Literature Program of the New York State Council of the Arts. Civil Engineers Honored During winter term, ·eight Union Civil Engineering students were honored by their induction into the National Civil Engineering Honor Society. The Rensselaer Chi Epsilon Chapter, based at RPI, includes Union College, so the induction ceremony was held there. The new members from Union are the following: Betsy Boutwell, John DeMis, Jeff Doolittle, Lisa Freed, . Dorin Greco, Tim Lowry, Maureen O'Day, and Rich Pollack. After a dinner, Union's Dr. Francis Griggs gave a presentation on the link ·between Union and RPI. His slides and talk bridged the. gap ~ between the two schools, showing their common roots and backgrounds. Students are chosen for selection into Chi Epsilon based on their academic per- formance, as well as leadership skills, and extracurricular activities. Overall, the society judges membership based on those civil engineering students they feel will contribute the inost to the profession. Thus, those juniors and seniors selected this year not only gain a great honor, but a great responsibility too. Union was further honored in two ways. First, Dr. Griggs, professor of civil engineering, was inducted as an honorary member of Chi Epsilon. A .step above normal membership grade, Dr. Griggs has certainly earned this distinction. His commitment to · civil engineering, both as a profession, and here at Union is obvious to all who know him. Secondly, three of the Union inductees also gained officer positions. Boutwell will assume the title of Marshal, while Freed will be editor. Maureen O'Day will take over as President of the Rensselaer Chi Epsilon Chapter. Part .o.f O'Day's duties will include organizing a project in cooperation with the Union ASCE chapter. Congratulations to these Civil Engineers for their achievements, and best of luck as you build for the future. Party Policy Changed Continued from page 1 have expressed dissatisfaction with both the new policy and the means by which it was decided. While Massa discussed the problems encountered last spring with Security, Food Service, Residence Life, and the Student Activities Coordinator, others who were informed of the problems during winter term believe that they had limited, insignificant, or no input before a finn decision was made around the eighth week of winter term. Chairman of the Concert Committee, Pete Hutchison, feels that when he and members of the Social Committee met with the deans, ''there was very little give and take. I don't feel · that we had any effect on the decision\ on outdoor parties. .Co-chairperson of the Social Committee, Sandy Nagler, explains that at this meeting, they mainly discussed alter- natives to moving Camp Union, and while the group may have influenced policy toward Camp Union, this did not extend to a new party policy in general. Similarly, Student Forum members, Steve Benson, Dave Marin, Julie Mountain, Chris Siler, and Steve Moss, initiated a meeting on the subject last term and believed that Mam- mola indicated to them that he would communicate with them before a decision was made. Student Forum President Benson read the Student Affairs Office memorandum on outdoor events at the April 8, 1985, Student Forum meeting and, while opinions varied, some members did not support the new rules and others felt that the students' and the Student Forum's input was not con- sidered. Presidents of the fraternities who traditionally hold parties with outdoor bands were in- formed of the decision at the end of last term. President of Kappa Alpha Society, Steve . Bertman, explains that he is naturally disappointed that plans for their party will have to be changed. According to the Resident Director-Coordinator for Davidson, Kent Avery, the Davidson Dorm Council representatives are upset because they have been plan- ning the Fox-Davidson party since fall term. Kelly Larkin, Co-president of Davidson's Dorm Council, is disappointed that they were not informed earlier (the office of Student Affairs issued a memorandum on April 8, 1985), as she stated, \If I had had reason to believe they were changing the policy, I would have looked into it.'' Fox and Davidson Dorms have already contracted a band for their party and now must replan the event. Thus far, opinions of the new policy have been varied. Some students are annoyed either by the anticipated effects of the decision, by a perceived lack of consideration for students' interests and opinions, or by the inconvenience caused by late notification. The deans have both expressed satisfaction with the decision they have reached. Several Student Forum members at the April 8 meeting, however, expressed a desire to discuss recon- sideration of the issue with Mammola. Mammola has agreed to such a meeting. At this point, mQst of the affected fraternities as well as Fox, Davidson and West Dorms plan to reform any outdoor events in accordance with the ad- ministration's new requirements. The Following is a Memorandum from the Office of Student Affairs to All Residence Halls and Student Organizations, Issued April a, 1985. On-Campus Live Music Regulations The last several springs liave seen an increase in the number of outdoor social events that have included live band music as a key part of the event. While these have been individually pleasant affairs, collectively thev. have caused a number of problems for the College .. including the creation of a month· long series of outdoor rock concerts. weekend after weekend in May. This has resulted in a number of complaints from off·campus residents to the Security Office, especially through th~ Intervention of the Schenectady Police Department. The problems encountered have been tlie following: I. Violations of the Schenectady Noise Ordinance passed by the City Council in September 1983, which was severel,y tested by the loud music of last spring. 2. Occasional vandalism and \trashing\ of residence ha~ls, especially West College. 3. The presence of outsiders, i.e., non· Union College students and others, who do not feel obligated to follow Union College policies and r.egulations. 4. Occasi.onal alcohol abuse and rowdy behavior. It has therefore become necessary to limit the number and nature of outdoor music concerts on the campus as follows during the coming spring term: 1. Camp Union and FitzHugh Ludlow Days, because·they are central Union events, will remain unchanged. ~ 2. Any other student group or organizationwishing to sponsor an outdoor event with music on the campus will have to restrict such music to recorded music only and will have to insure that the music is confined· to the immediate environs of the event and not able to be heard throughout the rest of the campus or off the campus. The Security officers will be authorized to request that the music be turned down or the event may be discontinued. 3. Any student group or organization, other than the Camp Union or FitzHugh Ludlow Day Committees, wishing to have live band music at their event will have to arrange to schedule the event at the Girting Center only, where there is less possibility that the neighbors will be·disturbed. Our goal has been to keep Camp Union and FitzHugh Ludlow Day unchanged on campus, while eliminating the loud mini· concerts with live band music that have sprung up around them, while still giVing students the opportunity to have recorded music for on·campusevents, or live music at the Girting Center. Everyone's cooperation will be appreciated. Should you have any questions about this policy, please contact either Dean Massa or Dean Mammola in the Student Affairs Office. I and grew up on a reservation two to three hundred pages. near Harlem, Montana. He After a brief leave, Welch learned poetry at the University pursued his first novel again. To of Montana under his professor this date,. Welch is highly Richard Hugo. Hugo taught critical of that first effortinthat Welch poetry by \doing.\ it has wooden dialogue and little Hence, as a student Welch plot. His criticism has not been wrote poems daily, even though fUlly shared by others because many of his pieces in the his two novels, Winter in the beginning were o{ poor quality. Blood· and The Death. of Jim Gradually, the daily writing of Loney have received wide poetry and the many critiques critical acclaim. he received on his works enabled him to become a well respected poet. The culmination of his work is his book of poetry, Riding the Eartliboy W, which has been reprinted many times. Hugo enabled · Welch to become a respected .poet by teaching him that writi.Ilg is not just for the professionals. In teaching Welch this lesson, the professor removed some of the myths surrounding the writing field. First o.f all, Hugo eliminated the myth that one needs to be brilliant to be a writer. Second, he advised Welch to write about something familiar to make him more at ease with writing. Hence, Welch began to write a story about his years as a Blackfoot Indian on the reservation. Although an. accomplished poet at this time, Welch's beginning years as an author were by no means easy. He started to write his first novel but soon rejected it wondering Welch's recent work Currently, James Welch is working· on a historical novel about the Blackfoot Indians. Welch remarked that \it is hard to hqve a positive ending in such a no'vel\ because the plot is based on the real lives of the Blackfoot Indians which has included massacres; Welch also comments that ''it is difficult to write a piece of historical fiction without gloating and accusing people.\ The poet also noted that \too often people writing on a minority viewpoint will have a built-in audience.\ They cater to this built-in audience to at- tract sympathy. In addition to writing one book of poetry and two novels, Welch is ·also a professor. He has taught writing at the University of Washington and is a visiting writer at Cornell University this year. State Parks offer camping, swimming, and outdoor fun; Museums and Galleries abound with History and Fine Art; The Performing Arts Center features The Philadelphia. Orchestra and The New York City Ballet; and of course the Fabulous Thoroughbreds call Saratoga Springs their home in August! Take advantage of these exciting cultural and recreational activities while receiving the finest college education available when youenroll in Summer Term at Skidmore College. SESSION I May 29 -July 5. 1985 Summer School • Summer SIX Art Program SESSION II July 10 -August 16, 1985 Summer School • Summer SIX Art Program . Skidmore Summer Language Institute • Classical Studies For More Information Return This Announcement to: Special Programs BoxU Skidmore College Saratoga Springs, New York 12866 Name ________________________________ _ Address ----------------------------------- City/State/Zip ------------------ I am currently a student at: Address -----~---------------------~----- City/State/Zip -----~---~------~- ·---------------------~~

of pages. Welch To highly that little been in the Jim wide is novel ndians. is hard in such plot is of the has also to fiction noted Qn a cater to at- one novels, He the and is I ' st CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/1 I, 1985 ' ,_. -·' . -··· Page3 Computer Grant Received By LISA FOLEY Staff Union continues to expand the use of microcomputers· into the humanities curriculum with the Computerized Humanities Undergraduate Curriculum (CHUC) II plan. The plan negotiated with the Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) includes Union's acquisition of a VAX 11-780, used to create the Computer Aided Instruction ( CAI) capabilities of the program. According to the Assistant to the Vice President, Thomas Warger: \The College is pleased and grateful to have the DEC grant; it wlll fund a substantial part of CHUC Il as we hoped. This is one of the bigger grants the College will receive in this or any other year.\ The VAX is valued at $129,000. Other major contributors tg CHUC II include Union's Internal Education Fund which will provide $50,000 for the renovation of a second CHUC classroom and the addition of five to ten microcomputers. The Sloan Foundation will supply $25,000 each year for the next two years for faculty-release time to be used to develop CAl programs. CHUC is currently a word processing experiment that examines the effects of word processing facilities on student writing. Presently, , CHUC consists of fifteen student and eight . faculty PRO . 325 microcomputers and three printers which service 150-170 students per trimester. Under the CHUC II grant, the faculty and students assigned to the program are required to develop six CAl modules and develop an Interactive Black- hoard for both word processing and the CAl. The VAX is an essential component of Union's capabilities because the CAl lessons are written in the Digital Authoring Language (DAL), a 'derivative of Pascal that DEC-designed. Computer Aided Instruction are lessons that students complete on computer terminals that act as additional learning facilities. The CHUC staff ls currently developing CAl modules which are tailored to Union's needs. Warger explains that many of the CAl programs created are either too simplistic or they are self-contained programs which do ngt require the aid of a professor. Union's CHUCstaff, including faculty. and students, attempts to take advantage of Union's small class size and to provide sophi~icated les~ons designed for students at the college level. The six modules would aid students enrolled in courses in classics, history, modern languages, and philosophy. The modules will provide such lessons a:s maps, split screen translation, logic, Interactive Blackboard and Library usage. DEC will deliver the hardware and software necessary for developing these modules both in June 1985 and June 1986 with the exception of the Interactive Blackboard which Will be delivered in December 1985. Ideally, CHUC would have included a total of 27 work stations, 12-15 faculty work stations and would arrange a substitution for more sophisticated word processing microcomputers and Rainbows. DEC chose not to fully fund the grant. CHUC faces difficulties as a result of the funding situation. Firstly, the Pro 325's and the Rainbows. Union currently own are not diskette-compatible which limits access to ter- minals. i\lso the Pro 325's have only one slot for expansion. This slot can either make the Rainbows and Pro 325' s diskette compatible or can upgrade the graphics capabilities used for CAl programs. These problems Moster the art of teaching in just 15 months. The Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) program at FD U 's Teaneck-Hackensack Campus qualifies bachelor of arts and science degree graduates to teach -earning a top- dollar entry salary- in 15 months of study. New Jersey and the metropolitan area have shortages of teachers. FDU's intensive program will increase your marketability while allowing you to enjoy full-time paid teaching internships, receive training in microcomputer and instructional technology, and begin the program with- out prior courses in education. Master teaching theories and strategies in your choice of: • English • English as a Second Language • Multilingual Studies • Mathematics • Science • Bilingual Education, and • Social Studies. For more information, call Mrs. Nuziale at. (201) 692-2839. FDU FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY An affirmative action/ equal opportunity institution Or write us ot Room 228, Bancroft Hall, Teaneck·Hockensdck Campus, Teaneck, NaJ. 07666 will be addressed in the next funding stage of the CHUC program. As Warger points out, \When the College applies to a corporation, foundation, o,r individual for a grant, 1t presents a project and all its attendant costs.The organization or person deciding whether to give a gran~ the.n decides whether the proJect IS worthy of support. If that decision is affirmative (as in DEG's decision to support CHUC), their next step is to decide hgw much support to offer. Grants do not always cover all the expenses of a project and the College does not h d . \ count on t. em omg so. (/') c :0 .0 0 £k: <ll > <ll ..... Assistant to the Vice President Thomas Warger is pleased with the DECGrar:~tasitwill helptofund~HUC II. Vl > .0 0 ..... 0 .c: c. Campus News Briefs Adirondacks Conference The Adirondack Research Center and Adirondack Mountain Club, Inc. are sponsoring the New York State Forest Preserve Centennial Symposium on the Adiron- dacks, to be held at Union Saturday and Sunday, April 27- 28. Topics to be discussed include The Great North Woods, the State and National Park Movement, The Adirondacks as an Influence of National Environmental Values, and The Preserve's Foreseeable Future. A panel discussion Saturday is titled ''The Role of the Organized Citizen Constituency on Forest Preserve Policy.\ Saturday evening, a reception will be held at Schaffer Library at Union; exhibits from the Adirondack Research Center, the Department of Environ- mental Conservation and prize- winning photos from the ADK Centennial Photo Contest will be mr display. Funding support for the conference has been arranged by Charles Knox Brumley, Trustee, Knox Foundation. Registration by April 15 should be arranged through the NYS Forest Preserve Cen- tennial Symposium c-o ADK- ARC, 172 Ridge Street, Glens Falls, NY-12801. /FCRaises Money The pool in Alumni gym was the site of the second annual Interfraternity Council \Swim Classic for Leukemia\ on Sunday, February 24, 1985. The event was coordinated by IFC President Roger Harris, Vice President Ron Bronsnihan and Leukemia Society represen- tative Deborah Casaceli. Stephen Lipsky of Zeta Beta Tau Fraternity won the grand prize, a portable color television. He swam a total of 150 laps and collected $393.00 in pledges. He also was in- strumental in winning a keg of beer for his fraternity, which raised the top amount of money out of all the participating Greek organizations, $429.00. Delvan Rhodes of Schenec- tady won 2nd Prize, a cordless telephone. He raised $212.00. Chris Sawchuck of Sigma Chi Fraternity, raised $200.00 and won 3rd Prize, a set of binoculars. \It was throughthe efforts of the IFC that we were able to raise $1,580.17 from the Swim Classic,\ stated Casaceli. \This money will aid researchers in their battle to find the causes and means to cure leukemia and its allied diseases.\ Several fraternities were unable to participate and have promised to donate money to the society. According to Harris, once these contributions are made, the IFC will have raised over $2,000 for Leukemia. Local Food Drive Cgncerned for the Hungry will hold .a Spring Food Drive on April 12 & 13 to restock the shelves of emergency food pantries in Schenectady. Volunteers will be at area supermarkets to accept food donations and answer questions about local emergency feeding efforts. Concerned shoppers at Grand Union, P&C, and Price Chopper Markets in Schenectady and Scotia are urged to make donations of canned and dry food items. The food collected will be distributed to emergency food pantries which prepare food boxes of three to four days worth of meals for people faced with emergencies such as illness, unemployment, or family crisis. Over 7,000 food, items were collected at the last food drive for Schenectady pantries, which served 186,428 meals to people in need in 1984. For information about the exact hours and sites of the Spring Food Drive, please contact Concerned for the Hungry. Central America Hearing Tonight Before Congress votes on aid to the contras, come learn about the issues at a Teach-In on Central America, \Central American Update: The Land, the People, the Issues,\ at 7: 30 In Memoriam P.M. on Thursday, Aprilll, in Humanities 117. The speakers are John Kowal, Assistant Professor of Agriculture at SUNY Cobleskill; Kenneth Mast, Pastor of Christ's Church of the Hills in Schenectady and recent visitor to Nicaragua; and Martha Huggins, Associate Professor of Sociology at Union and board member of USOCA. Discussion will focus on the history of the region and con- tinuing US involvement in Central America. AIDS Meeting There will be a meeting of all interested members of the community at the AIDS Council of Northeastern New York on Tuesday, April 30, 1985 at ACNENY Offices, 332 Hudson Avenue, Albany, New York to plan and develop production teams to work on video education projects. ACNENY has recently received a grant to develop educational videos on AIDS. Volunteers for the production teams are needed for: production, acting, writing, organizing, taping, editing, and so forth. Please contact the ACNENY office at 434-4686 for more information. Niemeyer Speaks On U/J!.:f)Ses The annual meeting of the Friends of the Union Library will be held Friday, April19, at 8 p.m. in the music room, Schaffer Library. Guest speaker will be Carl Niemeyer, professor emeritus of English, whose topic will be James Joyce's Ulysses. Niemeyer is Thomas Lamont Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature Emeritus. He holds B.A. and M.A. degrees from the University of Kansas, and M.A. and Ph.D df grees from Harvard University. He taught at Union from 1946-1972. THINK SPRING THINK PARENTS' WEEKEND MAY 10,11 & 12 concordiensis regrets to announce the death of Professor of the Arts, Arnold Bittleman. Bittleman died last Saturday, April 6,at age 52. He received both his B.F.A. and M.F.A. from Yale. Before coming to Union in 1966, Bittleman taught at Ya.le, Skidmore, the Minneapolis School of Art and the Parsons School of Design in New York City. His most recent work will be exhibited at the Alexander F. Milliken Gallery in New York City from April 13-May 8. Bittleman is survived by his wife Dolores of Eagle Bridge, New York, and his two children, David and Sarah ('88). There will be a memorial service on May 5 at 4:00 p.,rn. in Memorial Chapel.

Page4 CONCORDIENSJS, Apri/11, 1985 .., '• . Flight to Hell and Back By JOY RUNYON Staff ''How sharper than the ser- pent's tooth is the reckless airline pilot.\ Shakespeare penned that line over 350 years ago-well, something similar to that, anyway. It still holds true. Spring Break is the week-'long hiatus given to us overworked slaves to future success who are forced to contend daily with West or Hale dining, 30 chapters of text book reading each night, and cabin-feverish roommates. The break is a time to hang out, party out, mellow out, or whatever one happens to be \in to.\ I was \in to\ Colorado. The flight out was calm, pleasant, and miraculously on schedule. The flight back home to Albany was a different story entirely. Denver Airport was crammed with rugged mountain men and tacky tourists awaiting in- coming flights or take-offs delayed due to rather unsavory flying weather. The blue yonder was now dreary and black, and my future looked about the same as my flight finally left the ground. Most people, when boarding a plane, will check to see if they might hit anyone in the head when unlatching their overhead baggage compartment. Not \Tex\ (not his real name, which he is lucky I did not know). Tex barged onto the plane with a fine how-de-do to the shapely stewardess and ambled back to his seat in the smoking section, directly across the aisle from me. As I was stowing my carry-on bag in my compartment, Tex swung his open as though he was let- ting a rodeo bull out of the chute. It hit me in the back of the head, nearly causing a rather mild concussion, and I reeled from the attack. For the pain he caused me, all I received was a drawled \Sorry ma'am.\ I gave him the evil eye and sat down in my assigned seat. The take-off finally began as we taxied down the runway. The lighted sign told me it was time to \Please Fasten Seatbelt,\ which I was in no mood to do. The stewardess slunk up and down the aisle with what ap- peared to be a motorized neck which swiveled her head from side to side, checking to make sure the sign was obeyed-at any cost. ''Miss, please fasten your seatbelt,\ she told me. I made no motion to obey. \Miss she said more sternly as she drew a Ruger Single-six and pointed it at me, \please fasten your seatblet. Now, turkey! \ I fastened my seat- belt, needless to say. This chick must have been at Entebee in 1976 . . . as one ofthe terrorists. The pilot turned on his in- tercom to the cabin and spoke, \Ladies and gentlemen, this is your pilot. We are now taxiing to take off for our service flight to Pittsburgh. Please observe the seatbelt and no-smoking signs for your personal safety. Uh ... This flight will be about two hours late, as we have some rough skies ahead of us. We've received word that there are a few thunder showers over Iowa, hail storms over Nebraska, and tornadoes over Kansas. We'll try to avoid those . . . maybe.\ And with that, he switched off the intercom. The whole cabin could hear gales of laughter· coming from the cockpit. As we got to higher altitude, it became apparent that this was a death flight far me. You know how most people see their lives pass before their eyes just before death? I saw scenes of my life painted on every cloud we passed. I was not at ease. ·The pilot got on the intercom again: \Ladies and gentlemen, it might be interesting to note the large body of water below us, visible only because it is the dump sight for the nearby nuclear plant and can glow in the dark. Also note that the bottom of your seat may be used as a flotation device in the event of an emergency water landing. We'll be passing over Iowa shortly. We may experience a little turbulence in this area, so-\ His words were cut off by static and then an abrupt click. My fellow rowmate was an Air Force officer who began relating to me the history of aviation's great tragedies. I put on my headphones and plugged into a channel playing Steve Miller's \Big 01' Jet Airliner.\ It was sufficient enough to drown out the Air Force officer. The obnoxious child in back of me was in danger of having her teeth knocked out by me; she persistently kicked my seat and screamed at her father to buy her a candybar. I pulled out a magazine, set it on my nifty, little, formica, pull-out tray, and began reading it. The billiard ball in front of me found it necessary at that moment to fully recline his seat, forcing the tray to become a part of my anatomy. I was not pleased. I slammed the tray back into its fold-up position and jerked the man forward in his seat. He turned around and looked at me, yet I said nothing, just gave him a calculatedly cold stare. The stewardess informed us that it was now time to serve us our dinner. I checked to make sure they included the vomit bag in my seat's pocket. It was there, so I decided to accept the meager offerings. In the center of the tray was a square, plastic bowl filled with some pasty substance. But wait: There was a recipe in- cluded for it. Obviously, it was corn chowder; it looked like they did with those utilized vomit bags exactly what I've always suspected. I passed over the tossed-cookie chowder and discovered that there was also a bowl of regurgitated fruit, which didn't strike my fancy, to say the least (the very least). The turbulence began at that point. I realized he was not lying to us. Once again, his raspy voice· ·s9unded over the in- tercom: ''Ladies and gen- tlemen, as long as we're in some turbulence now, I thought you might be interested in trying some of my neat-o flying stunts. How 'bout it, folks?\ The consensus was a resounding NO! \Shucks you guys are no fun.\ The intercom switched off again. The toothless little kicker in back of me begged her father, \Daddy please tell Mr. Pilot to do some tricks. Please, please, please!'' Now she was in danger of having her vocal chords ripped out. As the stewardess passed by, I grabbed the Ruger out of her black leather holster and pointed it at the little wench. \Either you shut up or you'll have some lead in your head, dog-face!\ She was Continued on page 5 New York State Museum & Empire Plaza Trip On Sunday, April14, all Bigs and Littles are invited to attend our trip to the New York State Museum & Empire Plaza. The time will be from 12:00 noon to approximately 3: 30 p.m. This trip is sponsored by the Union College Big Brothers-Big Sisters Executive Board and it will include: transportation, lunch, and admission. Please call our office, 37 4- 4523, as soon as possible to make reservations as seating is limited. This will be a very JSU Supports Ethiopian Escape By MITCHELL J. STEIN Staff The Jewish Student Union has been working hard for the past few weeks organizing a fund drive to benefit Ethiopian Jewry. Lynn Hano ofthe J.S.U. explains, \Jews make up part of the large number of Ethiopians suffering from famine. What makes the Jewish problem different from the other Ethiopians, is the political discrimination which the Jews face. Though millions of dollars have been funneled to Ethiopia for relief, the Mar:ltist regime has managed to keep the sup- plies from the Jews. Operation Moses, to which the J.S.U. is donating the money, is an organization which - helps resettle the Jews in Israel. The Israeli government is trying to get the Jews out of Ethiopia and into Israel\. Recently Israel has staged a massive airlift from The Sudan. Jews have traveled hundreds of rpiles on foot from their small villages to the Sudanese border. Beyond the border~ in. The Sudan, refugee camps have been set up. From there, Israel is trying to get refugees t0 Israel. Israel has no political ties with Ethiopia or the Sudan. Several agencies from Europe have made arrangements for Jews to travel first to their country and then to Israel. Over the past four years, ten thousand Ethiopians have made their way to Israel, almost eleven thousand are sun in the migratory stage and about nine thousand are still left in Ethiopia. Israeli agencies believe it will take another few years to complete the process. Ethiopian Jews, believed to be one of the lost tribes of Israel, have lived as Jews in Ethiopia for over two thousand years. They believe themselves to be the last of the Jewish faith, until their practices and history were uncovered by European explorers in the mid-nineteenth century. Poet Tall Gives Talk Poet Deborah Tall will give a talk and poetry reading on Monday, April 15. The talk, \The Will to Change: Recent Women's Poetry,'' will be in the Humanities Lounge at 3:30 p.m. The poetry reading will be in the Hale House Lower Lounge at 8 p.m. Her visit is sponsored by the English Department, the Women's Network, and the Minerva Committee. Deborah Tall, author of the Ninth Life, teaches at Hobart and William Smith Colleges and edits the Seneca Review. The talk and reading are free and open to the public. Big Brothers Big Sisters . enjoyable trip for both volun- teers and youngsters, so please try to come. Sunday Group Volunteers Program This Spring, Sunday Group Program will start on Sunday, April 14. All volunteers are asked to be at Carnegie Hall at 11:45 a.m. because we will be going to the New York State Museum & Empire Plaza in Albany. This particular Sunday, program will run from 11:45 to approximately 3:30 p.m. Transportation, lunch, and admission will be paid for by the Union College Big Brothers-Big Sisters Executive Board. Dates for the Spring Sunday Group Program are: April 14, April 21, April 28, May 5, May 12, May 19, May 26 and June 2 Your consistent attendance at the Sunday Group Program is very important so please try to be there on a regular basis. Any volunteers who have not had an interview, must call our office (374-4523) to set up an ap- pointment. 0 c~ fo trrx r;o w.l

e r ~mall tdanese ·der; in pshave , Israel :ees to al ties Sudan. Europe nts for ) their ~l. Over ), ten have Israel, tre still :e and >till left ~encies ter few rocess. ved to bes of ews in ousand 1selves 1 faith, history ropean !tee nth 1t, the td the eborah h life, i'illiam lts the lk and 1 to the and by the 28, 26 at is try to an office ap- ' CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/11, 1985 PageS FEATURES Law School? \Consumerism has reached education\ said Thomas 0. White, President, Law School AdmissionServices, ''and that's good, especially for students considering a law school education.\ There are 17 4 American Bar Association- approved law schools from which to choose and each is different. \Students informed decisions about whatever career path they choose,\ said White, ''and they want answers to their questions before beginning the time-consuming and often expensive process of applying to law schools or to any graduate degree program.'' \The Law Package was developed to help students and graduates alike make some decisions about law school before they begin the process of actually applying,'' said Bruce I. Zimmer, Vice President and Executive Director, Law School Admission Council-Law School Admission Services. \We've tried to develop materials that will help prospective law students evaluate whether law school is right for them and,\ said Zimmer, \to provide them with the information they need to prepare for and to begin the law school admission process.\ YOU, THE LAW AND LAW SCHOOL, a book that describes legal career options and what to expect in law school; key facts about U.S. ·and Canadian law schools; a bibliography of prelaw readings; preparation materials far the LSAT, in- cluding details about the nature of LSAT questions; and a sample LSAT with an answer key for self-scoring. 1985 Session l ntern Peter Torncello (Union) left, and Assemblyman Richard Ruggiero. For · mariy, the first step in seeking the answers to their questions about law and legal careers has been The Law Package. Developed by Law School Admission Council~Law School Admission Services - (LSAC-LSAS)-The Law Package consists of a full program of publications, ser- vices and self-evaluation resources, and is designed to give students a better idea of what to expect from the LSAT, the admission process and legal education. Viewing the· Legislature THE TEST, a tryout LSAT that students can take and return, if they choose, to LSAC- LSAS for a confidential analysis of their test results. A Union College student and Watervliet resident, Peter Torncello, a senior majoring in political science, is one of 136 students who are spending their spring semester at the New York State Assembly. In ad- dition to attending regular classes at the Assembly, Session Interns work directly (o ~ \~ R\)\#15 fiJJ ~ ~ \\1~{1 -.o - \\ 5\L~~,.~.,.,; fo~ \- \. ........ '-- F~ GIJa.l (J. F w9men c U0100 Calendar of Events, Aprill985 s Addendum April18: \Eating Disorders,\ Thursday, 1: 3()..3: 00 p.m .. Social Studies 016 PANEL PRESENTATION MODERATOR: Doris Richards, Union College, Health Service. PANEL: :::--- /'\' ~ .,- ;- ~/is John Jenks, Md., A.M.C., Department of Clinical Nutrition. \Diagnosis: physical manifestations of eating disorders and medical treatment.'' Esat Cirpili, Md., Board certified psychiatrist in private practice. \Psychological manifestations and treatment.\ Nan Windm.ueller, B.A., A.A.S., Nutritionist in private practice. \Nutritional Practice.,. Laurel Burns, Eds., Psychotherapist in private practice. \SociologicalCultural factors in Bulimia.\ · \Individual and Group Therapy.\ . Gall George, M.A., Psychotherapist in private practice. ''Family Therapy.\ Doris Richard, R.N., MS., \Self-help groups.\ with Assembly members. They draft and brief bills, research and respond to questions from people in the member's heme area and attend meetings and hearings held by Assembly Committees. The end result of total immersion in this active work-learning experience is firsthand knowledge of state government, the legislative process and policy-making. Session Interns do research and are exposed to the views of groups and individuals from all over the state on issues ranging from DWI to toxic waste and taxation. Peter is assigned to Assemblyman Richard Ruggiero, a Democrat from Utica. According to Peter, \The Assembly Intern Program has been a fantastic experience that I would strongly recommend.\ Peter notes, \Assemblyman Ruggiero has made me feel comfortable in his office and in the exciting Capitol at- mosphere. I can't imagine a more interesting place to work. Possibly the best aspect of the program is the other people from colleges all over the state who participate. I have made many good friends among in- terns who I would never have had a chance to meet other- wise.\ Session Interns receive a semester of credit and a $1,000 stipend. For more information about how you can be an Assembly Session Intern for Spring Semester 1986, contact Patricia A. Matteo, Career Development Center, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308 or the New York State Assembly Intern Program, 829A Legislative Office Building, Albany, New York, 12248. Hell Flight • • • Continued from page 4 silenced by her father, effective immediately. The stewardess pulled a Saturday Night .38 Special out of her bra and barked, ''Hand the gun over. Now, turkey!\ I handed her the gun without a struggle. This chick meant business. I must have fallen asleep, because the next thing I heard was the pilot screaming, \Take your seat~elts off and jump for your life!\ The cabin was chaos as everyone scrambled for their carry-on baggage and parachutes. Then, \Just kid- ding, folks. I just wanted to see if you were awake. Now that we're all bright-eyed and bushy- tailed, I thought I should tell you that we will be starting our approach to Pittsburgh International. Please fasten your seatbelts and observe the no-smoking sign. Thank you for flying U.S. Scarelines . . . I mean, Airlines.\ The approach to the airport felled about a two-mile long strip of trees before finding the runway, but we were soon there. More importantly, I was still alive. Not breathing much, but still alive. I got off that flying horror as quickly as I could, vowing never again to trust those incompetent skyhoppers they call \qualified pilots.\ By the time I found out at what gate my connecting flight to Albany was, I had decided to skip the flight and take a ta.\':i. Sure, it cost me $372.85, but the security was worth it. The moral of the story is, Friends don't let friends fly. Period. Bloodmobile To Be Held In Strauss Lounge April 1 5, 16, 17 Call Ext. 6118 for an appointment or iust walk in!

Page6 ... (1) .0 :::> ... ~ '0 > f1l Cl FEATUR.ES Prof. Sorum tUrected Union's Term Abroad in Greece. Aid to Students ..• CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/11, 1985 • Winter tn Sunny Greece By LINDA RAFFAELE Editor-in-Chief While most of us suffered through another Schenectady winter, filled with headcolds, wet feet, and ever plentiful snowstorms, 26 of our fellow classmates were basking in the sunny delights of Athens, Greece. For those of you who may have wondered about taking a term abroad in Greece, the word from this year's participants is \Do it! \ Recently, I spoke with Cheri Wong and Cindy DiMauro, two seniors who spent the winter in Greece, ·and they gave me their thoughts and opinions on the experience. Marathon, Delphi; and Mycanae. In commenting on these trips, Cheri said, \They were really good because we got· to learn about things one week and see them the next.\ Cindy also added that she can really appreciate art now beca\QSe ''I know what to look for.\ Stop Cuts • In Education! The program which Union, students take part in is called \College Year in Athens.\ It is a program in which students from all over the U.S. take part. Students study four days a week at the Hellenic-American Union in Athens and live in nearby apartments. Six people live in each apartment, and some of the Union students live with students from other univer- sities. Cindy lived with a couple of girls from DePauw Univer- sity in Indiana. She told me that she enjoyed meeting new people this way and feels that \they should try to integrate the students from different universities even more.\ As for the course called \Greece Today,\ Cheri found it exciting because \We got to learn a little bit of everything.\ Cindy explained that in the section on ethnology, the professor took the class to a Greek neighborhood and gave the lecture right there so the students could see .firsthand what they were learning about. · At one point, they went into a coffeehouse where a lot of Greek men sit around and talk all day. Cindy said that was really interesting· because \here the professor was ex- plaining to us about what these men talk about all day, and you would turn around and there they were.\ By CONGRESSMAN MARIO BlAGG I The future of your college education is at stake. It is up to each of you to act swiftly to avert this. I am taking this opportunity to express to you my grave concern over the prospects for the Administration's proposals for student financial aid for this year. We have all heard that this budget, which seeks to slash student aid dollars by 25 per cent, will sound the death knell for educational opportunity. NewYorkState alone will lose a total of $500 million dollars if these proposals are passed. We know that these proposals are unfair-unwarranted-u- nwise. As New York's senior member of the House Education and Labor Committee-and one of the origin_al architects of many of these programs-! am actively working to fight these cuts. However, I believe that a more aggressive-and more visible-campaign is needed to focus attention on this issue for other Members of Congress. WE.LL, ~NN\e, tx:> ~E. 6.-t\Sr 1HC txx:m CfF'N 1'\'f. MAIL ChR'? Members of Congress are right at this very moment debating proposals that will directly affect your future access to financial aid. They need to know what the impact of this budget is on you per- sonally-and on your campus. They need to receive letters that detail your concerns. In my 16 years in Congress-I can tell you that those .personal letters cotmt a lot. I can tell you that they have an impact. I can also tell you that those who fail to speak up about their con- cerns-are at the greatest risk in losing their benefits. I urge you to take pen in hand and write a letter to your Congressperson and both your Senators. Tell them how these proposals will affect your continued ac- cess to higher education. Tell them that you oppose these cuts. Tell them that yo.u will be watching how they vote on these issues as they come before Congress. Today's budget debate is tomorrow's reauthorization debate. The Higher Education Act-which authorizes these ***** 66 Days until Graduation!! ***** programs-must be extended in the 99th Congress. It is fair to assume that even if we are successful in beating back the budget proposals for these programs-we will revisit these proposals during Congressional consideration of legislation to extend them for another five years. Mobilize your friends-and your families-including your parents. Take the time to contact your campus chapter of the United States Student Association-your financial aid officers-or your President's office and request from them their analysis of the impact of these proposals on your cam- pus. I believe this is an issue of paramount importance to students-as educational consumers-and will provide you with periodical bulletins on the status of these proposals in Washington. In the meantime, I will be seeking out my New York colleagues to learn how their own constituents are responding to this issue-and to this plea for student action- before it's too late! -----. Please send us your pictures from Spring Break Send them to Concordy box 2577. Provide name and box number and we Will send them back to you. Since the students lived in apartments, they were given an allotment of money for .food. each we~k. Cheri told me that since the exchange rate was so good, they could go out to ex- pensive restaurants and still have money left over. She said everyone did a lot of shopping at the \Plaka\ (the Greek marketplace). The students all had fun bargaining with the shopkeepers. Cindy mentioned that they sold \a lot of gorgeous wool sweaters and had fresh fruit and vegetables on Friday morning.\ The three courses offered this year in Greece were: Archaeology, Classics, and a course combining economics, ethnology, history, and ideology called \Greece Today.\ Classics was taught by Professor Sorum, the advisor from Union for this year's term in Greece. Both Cheri and Cindy had only words of praise for her and her class. The course in archaeology included a lot of field trips to different places of interest. Among the sites the students visited were: Olympia, As with a lot of other terms abroad, many of the students who went to Greece traveled before or after the term or on the weekends. Most of the students went to the islands off the mainland (Rhodes, Crete, Mykonos) and some went to Turkey and Italy. Cheri feels, \Students should definitely travel. It's a lot of fun, and it's so cheap. It cost me only $135 round trip to fly from Greece to Italy!\ In conclusion, Cheri warned that the term \was not easy academically, so don't expect a blow-off term.\ Despite the work, however, both Cheri and Cindy found that the trip was a lot of fun. \Fantastic\ was the word Cindy used to describe it. Check it out. Greece comes highly recommended. Incidentally, the deadline for applications for next year's winter term in Greece is May 5. ..----Wo~en's Week: AprillS-20------. \New Perspectives for Women\ Union College 1985 Monday, April15 • 10-12 noon--Women's Week Kick-Off Reception, wrth an art exhibit of women students' work. Banquet Room,. Carnegie. • 3:30-·Deborah Tall, poet, will be giving a lecture titled, \Voices of Women.\ Humanities Lounge. • 5:00-·Dinner for Women: Freshmen, Faculty and Administrators. Dutch Hollow Pub. e 8:00-·Deborah Tall will be giving a reading of her works. Hale House Lower Lounge. Tuesday, April16 • 12:30··\Union Women Research Women in their Senior Theses.\ Speakers: Marcy Wilder, Lynn O'Brien, Karla Hanson, Nancy Della Rocca, Kara Miller. Facilitator: Prof. Ilene Kaplan. Banquet Room, Carnegie. • 3:30--\Life at Union: A Group Discussion on Male·Female Relation· ships.\ Facilitators: Linda Frye, Joanne Tobiessen, Bob Massa and Dave Wood. Banquet Room and Conference Room A, Carnegie. If in· teres ted in participating, sign-up at ext. 6176. • 7:30 p.m.-·\Women Moving Up,\ a lecture/discussion sponsored by Black and Latin Alliance of Students. Hale House, Lower Lounge. Wednesday, April 17 ., 12:30-·Musica Femina Lunch Colloquium, \Women in Music History,\ Banquet Room, Carnegie. • 3: 30--\0ptions for Women in Engineering,\ Banquet Room, Carnegie. '• 6:00--\Good Women, Evil Women.\ A lecture by Prof. Leatrice Men· delsohn about the film, METROPOLIS. SSH2. • 7, 9, 11·-METROPOLIS, Free. SS016. \8:00--Musica Femina lnformance--\a presentation of both classcal and contemporary works by women composers.\ Arts Bldg. Thursday, Aprill8 • 11 :30--\Notable American Womeri in the 19th Centwry,\ a lec.ture by Eileen McDonagh, Professor of Political Science at Northeastern. SS113. • 12:30-·\Women· in Washington,\ Lunch Colloquium by Audrey Shep· pard, Dead of Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. Banquet Room, Carnegie. • 3: 30--\Can You Have It All? Do You Want It All?\ Video·tape and panel discussion about balanciong careers and personal life. Facilitated by Prof. Suzy Benack. SS115. • 8:00--\Cha.nging. Role of Political Parties in Campaigns,\ by Audrey Sheppard, Head of Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. Old Chapel. • 9, 11 p.m.--Cabaret, Performers: Anne Carl, Julie Wildman, Janice Thompson, Jennifer Paston, Leate Jackson. MC-Marcy Wilder. Cabaret Room, Carnegie. Friday, April 19 o 12:30·-\A Workshop ojn the Medical and Psychological Aspects of Stress,\ led by o·r. Lisa Harvey, MD and Laura Bronstein, MSW. Banquet Room, Carnegie. • 3:30--\From Women to Lesbian: Ah Historical Transition,\ by Chris Mayo, from The Gay and Lesbian Center-SUNY. Banquet Rom, Car· negie. .Saturday, April20 • 12:00-·Brunch Slide Show of \New Perspectives for Women\ by Jen· nifer Paston. Hale House, Lower Lounge. • 8:30·-Coffeehouse by Cathy Winter. \Progressive musical storytelling in the age-old tradition of folk music.\ Tickets $1.50 at the Box Office. Cabaret Room, carnegie .•

and on \They got- week Cindy really ~se ''I called it ~ot to the the to a gave the a ot of talk was ex- these you there or on the off to feels, it's $135 to easy a the and a the it. ~omes for 5. it of s ot 1 and in· by ~en- and by by Old of ice. WHY CORNELL? · A great location. Study at one of the most beautiful Ivy League campuses and spend the · . summer in the magnificent countryside of the . Finger Lakes region. Located on forty-mile-long • · Cayuga Lake, Ithaca i~ a small cosmopolitan city with restaurants, nightlife and all the urban advantages. A great university. Choose from a remarkable · variety of courses and learning opportunities- • more than 300 courses taught by distinguished • · Cornell faculty members. The curriculum in· eludes computer science, -fine arts, pre-law and • pre-med studies, and languages. Sign up for a few weeks or the entire summer. Courses are offered in three-, six-, and eight-week sessions. A great advenmre. Explore beautiful lakes · . and parks, spectactilar waterfalls and ravines. · Enjoy swimming, sailing, tennis, golf, climbing, camping, soaring, biking, birding, and hiking. A rich and lively schedule .of free outdoor con- certs and theater ma,kes Cornell an ideal place · to meet people and make friends. Why Cornell? Because we love summer as much as you do. Make plans now. For a l!opy of the 1985 Summer Session Announcement call or write: Cornell University Summer Session Box 22, B12 Ives Hall Ithaca, New Ybrk 148')3-3901 607/2%-4987 CONCORDIENSIS, April Jl, 1985 Page7 The Ivy League Year in New York Qualified upperclassmen are invited to apply for admission to Columbia College as visiting students beginning in September .1985. Full access to housing, library resources, and upper clivi\ sian courses. For further information and an application, write or call: Columbia College Admi~sions Office 212 Hamilton Hall New York, New York 1002 7 (212) 280-2521 NOTICE! QE2 SI'ANDBY FARE 10 EUROPE-NOW $599. This standby fare provides a berth ina room for 4 (we'll find traveling companions for you). Or, for $699, sail in a minimum grade room for 2 people. This limited offer is subject to withdrawal without prior notice anq may not be combined with any other offer. Rate does not include taxes or airfare. Confirmation will be given 3 weeks prior to sailing; a $75 deposit is required with your request. For details, see your travel agent or write: Cunard, P.O. Box 2935, Grand Central Station, New York, NY 10163. CUNARD Attention All Juniors Sophomores a~d Freshmen Applications are now available for ~he following committees. Film Concert Speaker's Forum Social Conduct Finance Committee on Committees Standing of Students Skeller Board Sub-Council on Academic Computing Traffic I Pet Court Research & Grants Academic Affairs Planning & Priorities Human Resources Student Affairs Council Athletic Liason Admissions Liason • Applications and detailed information available in Mrs. Marra's office. • Applications due by 4:30, Monday, April 22 in Mrs. Marra's office.

PageS C!IJJnrorbtrnsis Fornuleri qt l Inion College 1877 --------~-- -------- We would2!~~~~l to mtroduce ourselves. Our names are Linda Raffaele and Sarah Calderini and we are the Editors-in-Chief of Con• cordiensis for the spring term and next fall term. We are both in our second year here at Union, and we think that our campus has a great deal to offer. It is because of our enthusiasm for Union that we have chosen to undertake the positions of Editors-in-Chief. A school's newspaper, such as Concordiensis, is a necessary component of a college community. It serves to educate and inform. It is also a vehicle by which members of the community can voice their views. Our purpose in addressing yo11 today is to express our hope that you will fully utilize Con- cordiensis as a mode of campus communication. Please feel free to contact us at extension 6155 or at Box #2577. We are looking forward to working with you. Happy Spring! Party Policy Concerning the Admmistration's recent decision to change the Outdoor Party Policy: no one is asking for another Woodstock. The fact that live entertainment will not be permitted on campus this spring, with the exception of Camp Union and Fitzhugh Ludlow Day \because they are central Union events,\ can be considered to be somewhat of a hindrance to traditional spring activities. Understandably, the residents of Schenectady have a legitimate complaint with the College concerning campus noise. Yet, it seems possible that another policy could be constructed to satisfy the neighbors while still allowing the parties to continue. Parties such as Fox-Davidson and West Beach should still be permitted to host live bands. Sure, they may not be \central\ Union events to the policy makers, but \central\. all depends on where one. stands on cam- pus. All students' interests should have been considered in formulating the policy. Yes, students' input was heard, but the final decision was made without consulting the Student Forum. Presently, Forum members are trying to develop a compromise policy; one that will let nearby residents relax in their own way while still allowing Union students to relax in their own way. Students, like those outside of campus, work hard and deserve a little R&R. After all, who could ever say that fresh spring air and music aren't g!>od for young souls? An insider's view of the greenhouse. CONCORDTENSIS, Apri/11, 1985 ... LET'TERS Take a Course On An Island To the Editor: In the fall of 1985, Union College will once again offer two courses taught outside of Union's classrooms, Marine . Biology, BI0-52, and Images of the Sea, LL-55. Both courses are taught in an environment unlike any that a college campus could supply. These courses have been offered now for a number of years, and the great success during fall term of 1984 was no exception. The \'hands-on •' experience of living on a small island for two weeks was quite . character building, as those who have gone would testify. The field aspects of Marine Biology entailed observing, learning and understanding the biota and the environtnent of the dynamic rocky coast of Maine. Each student then selected what they felt was the most interesting aspect of marine life, and then spent one week studying their topic. The research was completed before returning to Union, and the projects were then presented orally to the other members of the class. On the last day at the · island, Marinbio students participated in the Biodecathelon, a ten event outdoor practicum which counts as the final exam. Upon returning to Union College, class lectures were relaxed, and met only one day a week for two hours (and there wren't any ·tests! ) At the end of the term, a written paper was submitted based on the research work completed on the island. For those who are interested in finding out more about this special course please see professors Carl George and Barbara Boyer of the biology department. There is alsa an informal informational meeting Wednesday, April 17, in room s301 at 4:45p.m. If you are even considering participating in this program, you are urged to attend this meeting. Daniel Caplin '85-'86 Budgets Due_ To AU Club and Activity Leaders: · Please be aware that the deadline for all budget requests for the 1985-86 academic year is Tuesday, April16, 1985 at 4:30 in the Student Activities Office in Carnegie Hall. All budget requests should be completed by a group of this year's and next year's officers (where possible), in cooperation with a Finance Committee Rep. This will allow the budget to adequately reflect the needs of the activity for the upcoming year. All budgets should include the cover sheet, a reprint of Article II ·Of the organizations's con- stitution, a budget request sheet, a written justification for each object category, an in- ventory list and membership list (as specified in the F. C. Handbook), and finally, a written explanation of how the budget was prepared. Another date to take note of is the May 1 DEADLINE for spending. After this date no money may be spent W1der the voucher system without the consent by vote of the Finance Committee. The reason for this deadline is to prevent late bills, to insure payment before our books close. and to prevent the necessity of taking funds from next year's activity budgets. I have instructed my Reps to meet with all treasurers as soon as possible in order to deter- mine the status of all budgets Particular attention should be given to the INCOME line item. Overspending by any club will not be permitted and could result in budget restrictions for the following year. All guidelines regarding spending, matching funds and budgets can be found in the F. C. Hand- book. If you have any questions, feel free to contact me, Mrs. Marra or a member of the committee. Thank you, BrianLaux V.P. for Finance Orientation Advisor Applications are now available in Student Affairs Office Please return applications to Student Affairs by Monday, April 15th. Interviews will begin Tuesday, April 16th. Please sign up for a time when you return your ap- plication. ALL ARE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY!! Anything Bothering You? Make Yourself Heard. Write a letter to the editor All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 5:00 pm each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed, but names will be withheld upon request. ·stud~nt · York. Box tne .. tttr~e·•·

a see an to plin ~ter­ be will for All ons, the . ell'' ~y~ .. ~:nt ~Olt :f),~ :.·. in. CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/11, 1985 Page9 THE ARTS We are the World reviewed ••• ,USA Sings For the World By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Editor The various English per- formers who got together last year to form Band Aid did more than just record .England's biggest selling single ever and raise over ten million dollars for the · starvi:ng masses in Ethiopia. They made famine fashionable. In the few short months since the now-historic release of \Do They Know It's Christmas-Feed the World\ musicians. everywhere have united with their countrymen to jwnp on the Africa bandwagon. Hence, benefit songs. are un- derway in Italy, Germany, Spain, even Latin America (whose set includes Placido Domingo and Julio Iglesia-s). In fact, it seems this proliferation has come fUll circle-a new single is O\.!.t now in England called \Starvation\ by a group of the same namer formed by members of General Public, UB40, Special A.K.A., and Madness--Britans who ap- parently · missed out the first time around. Meanwhile, of course, here at home USA For Africa is everywhere we look-or listen- on pins, posters, shirts, and above all, radio. When sales from all the merchandise (plus a home video cassette documenting the making of \We Are The World\) is added up, it is expected to easily surpass the sum of all other Ethiopian benefit productions. A key figure in that sum- mation will be sales of the We Are The World album, a ten- track lp released last week and already.hard to find in record stores. In addition to the title cut, the disc includes \Tears Are Not Enough\ by Northern Lights (the Canadian beqefit group) and eight other songs contributed by Steve Perry, The Pointer Sisters, Bruce Springsteen, Prince, Chicago, Tina Turner, Ken- ny Rogers, and Huey Lewis and the News. All proceeds from the album will be sent to charities; most of it to Ethiopia, the rest to aid the homeless in America, and Quincy Jones has confidently predicted that the album shoUld sell 30 million copies, which would put it in close competition for the biggest selling LP ever (Thriller is currently up around 35 million). Diversity of the Music . This album is unlike any other musical benefit ever recorded in one fundamental way; the diversity of the music it em- ploys. Whereas other charities such as The Concert for Bangladesh, The Concert for the People of Kampuchea, or even the No Nukes movement of a few years back all united musicians with similar styles and music, USA for Africa's persona is all over the map. Obviously, this is to make the album appeal to as wide an audience as possible and thereby increase sales. But it does impose some problems in creating a coherent whole and giving the album focus, especially since most of the songs don't have anything to do with Africa, famine, or any other such concern. And while I expected these superstars to donate superior pop efforts to make the record a real smash, it turns out that several of the tunes are merely average album cuts with no particularly interesting features. Exhibit ·A: Steve Perry's \If Only For The Moment Girl'', an amiable but insignificant song that's kind of a cross between \She's Mine\ and ''Foolish Heart'' both musically and lyrically. It's an okay tune, but I was expecting some knockeut stuff for this album (though Perry is never a reliable source for that), and not just a leftover from his last solo record. So, too, with The Pointer Sisters' \Just A Little Closer\ which could have been a dynf\mite dance track., if not for producer Richard Perry's typically sterile touches that reduce the song to a generic MOR hit. Tina Turner's choice for an entry-an old Motels song from 1979 called ''Total Control\-was another unsatisfying inclusion. Her performance is fine, but the song itself is too limited to ever be spectacular. Worst of all is Chicago's \Good For Nothing\ where both song and singer have nothing interesting to say. But wait. Subtract those four songs and suddenly a good album starts taking shape. Kenny Rogers' nurhber, \A Little More Love\ is one of his finest country-pop confections and could probably be a . big country hit. Huey Lewis and the News' live version of their own 1979 song \Trouble In Paradise\ is a catchy up-tempo rocker, highly reminiscent of \If This Is It\. Most Important Songs That leaves the four most important songs on the album, and the record either sinks or swims depem;!ing on how well you like the tracks by Northern Lights, USA for Africa, Bruce Springsteen, and Prince. The Canadian conglomerate Nor- thern Lights includes everyone from John Candy and Eugene Levy, to Paul Schaffer (of Letterman fame) and Neil Young. Their song, \Tears Are Not Enough\ isn't forceful as \We Are The World\ partly because the singers aren't as good and partly because the song itself ( cowritten by Br:y~n Adams) isn't as good. But Its effective just the same and though some repetition was inevitable, it manages to look at the Ethiopian plight from some new perspectives. As for \We Are The World\ despite the fact that after one short month of release it's already a· prime contender in The Most Over- played Song in The Universe · Sweepstakes, it's a good song, well-written and well-executed. The best thing about it is the vocalists, all of whom turn in excellent performances-Bob Dylan, of course, being ac- cepted on his own terms-with particular standouts from Ray Charles, Cyndi Lauper, Daryl Hall, and (ironically) Steve Perry. The two best individual ef- forts come from Bruce Springsteen and Prince. Springsteen's is a live version of a 1972 Jimmy Cliff song called ·\Trapped\ and, speaking as one who has never been a great fan of the man, he's ex- ceptionally good at capturing the mood and tone that the song requires. Prince's number is a sparse, moody piece called ''4 The Tears In Your Eyes\ and he gets extra points for being the only one of the bunch to write a song specifically for this project; that is, one which directly addresses the issue of Ethiopian starvation. It's a very religious song that ends by reasuring the suffering crowds that ''the meek shall inherit the Earth.\ Is this a great album? Unfortunately, no, but I woUldn't call it a bad albwn for two reasons. One is that, despite some blunders, it certainly has its share of good to great t~acks and those alone are worth the price of the album. Even· the lesser songs are at least pleasant-pointless, maybe, but painless. And it is, as the album cover proudly proclaims, an ''historic recording\' one to show the grandkids in fifty years. The other main reason that I'm slow to criticize is that I don't want to feel like I'm taking food out of these people's mouths. It is certainly a most · Continued on page 10 Magical By CATHY BEDNARIK Contributor As I entered the Binghamton Arena to join five thousand other Eddie Murphy fans, my· anticipation began to build. The people I came with and I were late, and the warm-up band was already playing. By the time we finally crawled over the crowd to our twentieth row floor seats, the warm-up band had finished and the stage was being prepared for Murphy himself. After another half hour wait, . one stool and one microphone were brought onto the stage and the lights in the arena dimmed. The excitement of the crowd rose as they waited for their idol to emerge. Everyone was on their chairs screaming in Willie Nelson is one of the many involved in the making of the song \We Are The World,\ in accordance with USA for Africa. Murphy unison \E-ddie! E-ddie!\. Suddenly, music started to blast and the crowd started jamming to the 'Neutron Dance' by the Pointer Sisters. A screen in the front of the Arena flashed pictures of Murphy from the beginning of his career with 'Saturday Night Live' to his latest movie, 'Beverly Hills Cop'. As the music faded, the screen turned a bright red and a familiar silhouette appeared. It was Murphy hinself in a seriously sexy stance. The screen raised and there before our eyes stood Eddie himself . He strutted to the stool and started his routine. He cracked jokes about Michael Jackson, Leon Spinks, Bill Cosby, Brooke Shields, Webster, and various other show people. Murphy had Tour a totally new routine but he did incorporate some motifs from his old routines. He did a hysterical imitation of his drunken father, Vernon. Ver- non's antics were the culmination of Murphy's hour and a half routine. Overall, Murphy was in top form. But, he did get quite crude at some points in the show. He did a quite lengthy escapade about masturbation which was humorous at first but ended turning vile. Murphy was funny enough without having to incorporate rude, crude, and uncouth material for quick laughs. But, vulgarity aside, Murphy was hysterical as always and kept his audience on the edge of their seats in un- controllable laughter for over an hour and a half. Coming in April THEATRE: • Oklahoma!: Aprilll-20; Wed. -sat.- 8 p.m. andSun.-:-2 p.m. 58 Remsen~t., Cohoes. 235-7969 . • Frankenstein: Apri112, 13, 17-20; 4/17--10 a.m. and 4/12, 13, 18, 19, 20-8 p.m. Stage Three, Siena College. 783-2381. • Sweeney Todd: Apri112, 13, 18, 19, 20. All performances are at 8 p.m. RPI Playhouse on 15th Street in Troy. Tickets are $4.00. 266-6503. ~David Copperfield: April16 at 6 p.m. and 8:30p.m. Proctor's Theatre. Tickets are $15.00,$13.00 and$9.00. 346-6204. MUSIC • The Schenectady Orchestra: April13 at 8 p.m. Proctor's Theatre. Tickets are $8.00 or $4.00 for students. 346-6204 . • Barber of Seville: April18 at 8 p.m. Proctor's Theatre. Tickets are $20.00,$17.00 or $12.00. 346- 6204. • Netherlands Chamber Orchestra: April19 at 8 p.m. Tickets are $14.00, $12.00 or $8.50. 346-:6204. • Hugh Allen Wilson-Organ Music Recital. April 20 at 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel at Umon. Ad- mission is Free. LECTURES \\The Uses and Abuses of History: Inventipg Historical Monuments from Romanticism to Post- Modernism,\ by Anthony Vidler, Professor of Agriculture. Chairman, European Cultural Studies Programming, Princeton University. April 17 at 4 ~30 p.m. in Social Scie;te~s 016 at Union. There will be a reception at 5:30p.m. in the Burns Student Forum of the Arts Bull ding. The Union College Dance Ensemble Sponsors: JAZZ CLASSES Sundays 7:00-8:30 Registration Friday 7:00-8:30 in the Arts Building

\ Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, April II, 1985 THE ARTS 1WRUC ) 89.7 fM • STEREO Introducing the WRUC T6P 8.97. These albums received the most airplay this past week on WRUC. What does this mean to you? Well, you can call in and request·(370-6151) your favorite new music in hope that it will be recognized amongst the elite. . Position-Artist Album--Label: Auditions for ''God\ were held last week. Pictured (L to R): Scott Bloom, Alexandra Atrubin, Paul Seline, Jennie Lee, and Rick Molato. The productionwill.be on Parent's Weekend. 1. UB40 2. The Smiths Geffery Morgan-A&M. Meat is Murder-Rough Trade Things Can Only Get Better-Elektra Hard Line-slash Songs from the Big Chair-Polygram Diamond Life-Portrait. Small Miracle-Proteus Lost & Found-EM! 3. Howard Jones · 4. The Blasters 5. TearsForFears 6. SADE (Shar-day) 7. Thebrongos Ballerina Teaches Class By KIMBERLY HANCOCK Staff Union College was graced with the presence of classical ballerina Giselle Roberge on Friday, April 5. Utilizing the recently completed dance studio located in. the Arts Building, Roberge conducted a master class in classical ballet technia Roberge is an accomplished ballerina who studied at the S~\'hool of American Ballet in New York City and has per- forr.~ed as a soloist in ballet companies which include the New York City Ballet. the American Ballet Theatre and the Stuttgardt Ballet. Just recently she has been touring neighboring schools and colleges instructing dance students who have had con- siderable experience in ballet. She was invited to Union by dance instructor and personal friend, Michael Steele, who felt that her instruction would be a great benefit to the dance students. He stressed that it was important for students to have exposure to an exemplary ballerina who would function as an inspiration to help sustain interest and regenerate en- thusiasm as well as instruct. Perhaps because of the time the class was scheduled (the Friday evenin~ before a religious holiday- weekend), only ene Union student was seen among the class' participants. Roberge instructed for two hours dedicating approximately one hour each to barre and adagio.She demonstrated each maneuver with the grace and elegance that made even the most difficult techniques seem simple. Grace and Elegance As the students followed her example, she individually corrected their posture and execution until everything was performed and Roberge's approval gained. Each par- ticipant worked extremely hard, concentrating every ounce of strength, energy, and knowledge in order to execute the intricate moves to the satisfaction of both Roberge and themselves. At the end of the class a glow of achievement shone in the face of each of the participants. They had gained knowledge from the expertise of Roberge as well as the personal feeling of satisfaction in having com- pleted a rigorous ballet class. For Roberge, the class provided an opportunity for her to ex- perience a different aspect of ballet. Because both the students and Graduating Seniors: You are ·invited to our Our Open House Sunday.April14th and . . . April 21,1985 11am to 3pm. Refreshments will be served. See how convenient and easy you can buy a New Car ot Truck from Orange Motors on the College Gr~duate Finance Plan for only $199.00 down. the teacher benefitted from this unique experience, the classical ballet masters class can be considered nothing less than a success. It is hoped that as a result of Union's new studio, more Union students will find time to explore and enjoy the art of dance. 8. Jason & the Scorchers 8.97 George Thorogood WRUC Program Notes Maverick .... EMI WRUC is now heard at West College Meals. Everyone has input. Pick up and fill out a request sheet at West. .. Tune in to Jazz at 89.7 FM, weekdays from l to 4 p.m ... A track from each TOP 89.7 · album will be counted down in an exclusive airing every Wed- nesday at9p.m. . · · -compiled by Evan Schwartz, WRUC Music Director USA sings ••• Continued from page 9 worthy cause, and according to a merchandise order form included in the album package (which lists items, their prices, and what the money could be used for), the money you pay for the cassette could \help immunize 100 African children against polio.\ Sales of the $21.00 sweatshirt will \help feed an African child for almost a month.\ And the $4.00 bill for a set of jacket pins is enough to \help supply almost 100 hypodermic needles for inoculations.\ If these musicians and retailers are throwing their hearts into this operation with this much dedication and enthusiasm, who am I to rain on their parade? So, if you want to feel good , having done your share, and you are willing to take the good with the bad, We Are The World is definitely worth checking out. Of course, if you'd rather wait to invest your money in the next Ethiopian benefit project; you'll be . happy to know one is currently underway. Head· hangers such as Ozzy Osbourne, Ronnie James Dio, and the Scorpions are uniting to record a heavy metal counterpart single to \We Are The World\ which may branch out into a full-length album. The message, thankfully, lies in the cause, not in the music. The Union College Dance Ensemble The following students who CJUditioned have been selected for the Spring repertory: Sarah Bittleman Rachel Elfenbein Elaine .Keaton Hilary Kern Diane Klein Michelle Manley Diane Mehta Phil Pisano Lisa Roller Alan Tuckman All members are required to attend the first rehearsa~ this Thursday at 6 p.m. in the dance studio.· Thanks to all those who auditioned

- ll: on and 11 be .abel. 1\.&M rade lktra )lash ~ram irait. >teus ·EMI ,EMI nput. t89.7 • 89.7 Wed- ector next rou'll e is lead· urne, the ~cord ·part rld\ ItO a The n the YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT ..• YOU'VE EARNED IT. '- ' . vurd_ . ORANGE MOTORS CO. Call: DENNIS· HURLEY, JR. 799 Central Ave., Albany, NY 489-5415 Page 11 TIIREE . CAMPUSES... FOR A TOTAL SUMMER EXPERIENCE L.I.U. II c.w. POST ... (516)299-2431 • Over 1,200 undergraduate and graduate courses • Flexible schedules - Days, Evenings and Weekends • Convenient location - less than 25 miles from Manhattan. near beaches • Breathtakingly beautiful 400-acre campus - residence halls, restaurants, theatres, sports facilities. Don't Forget! Parent's Weekend is fast approaching- May 10-12 To insure a great weekend- makeyour reservations SOON! Learn English! Intensive English Language Program SUNY at ALBANY • English study for non-native speakers • 16-week sessions • 8-week summer • Cultural•Recreational Ac- tivities • Small Classes • All LEVELS grammar, reading, composition, listening, conversation • TOEFL test prep Summer Semester June 10, 1985 INFORMATION 457-5072, ED 119

Page 12 ______ _, .. CAREER NEWS Internships & Fellowships (information available at the Career Development Center} The University of Wisconsin- Madison will hast the American Economic As s.ociat ion's minority program for the summero£1985. The program is intended for juniors and seniors who are interested in pursuing a PhD in Economics. The program runs from June 16 - August 10 and involves courses in intermediate microeconomics, intermediate macroeconomics, and statistics. Applications should be received by April 15, 1985. The Yorkville Volunteer Center helps students find volunteer internships at non- profit organizations. YVC is a New York City based organization and all internships are in Manhattan. General Electric is offering a summer minority internship program for 1985. The in- ternship provides students with practical experience in ap- plications programming, the workings of the information center, computer operations and software engineering. The intern must be interested in a career in applied computer technology, be a sophomore or junior, and have at least a 3.0 GPA. The Brooklyn Museum offers a summer internship for students interested in per- forming arts and museum education. The student will be involved in research, per- forming in shows, and con- ducting museum visits. The internship runs from June 10 - August 16, 1985. Application deadline: June 1, 1985. The Center for Blood Research offers a summer research internship to students studying biology and-or chemistry. Research positions are available in the areas of blood cell physiology and biochemistry, plasma protein g(lnetics and histocompatibility. It is a 10-week program that starts in early June. · FR.'ESI-l MAN' CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/11, 1985 The St. Thomas Choir School in New York City offers a teaching internship for college graduates interested in a career in teaching. The internships are available in French, History, English, and Math. A Bachelor's Degree is required. Carnegie-Mellon University and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation is providing a summer program for minority studeNts. It provides students with the necessary skills to get • into top graduate schools. After successfully completing the courses, students will be awarded the Sloan Fellowship, which is one year tuition and living expenses stipend at a participating graduate school. Michael C. Talley & Co., Inc. will be recruiting at Union on Thursday, April18. This is a full service investment firm looking for stockbrokers. All majors are considered, however, economics and business background would enhance ability to pass license exam. First come, first served sign ups will be Monday, April15, 8:00- 5:00 p.m. at the Career Development Center. Thomson-McKinnon Secu- rities will be pre-screening for entry level analytical positions in government securities department reviewing financial statements and documentation for institutional investors. Any major may apply; however, numerical ability should be shown in accounting or economics classes, analytical skills, and oral and writing skills. Deadline for resumes at the Career Development Center is Friday, Apri112, at 5:00 p.m. Camp New Horizons, a summer camp for the developmentally disabled, will be interviewing for summer employment on Tuesday, April 16. Any year or major can ap- ply. First come, first serced signups will be Friday, April12 from 8: 00-5: 00 in the Career Development Center. Sunbow Productions Film Awards offers college students a paid internship and cash, prizes. All short subject films with a child's focus are eligible. For more information, contact Ellen Kroner or Diane Peck, GBI Public Relations, 212-687- 2500. Submissions deadline is April 30; 1900. PRIZES The deadline for the sub- mission of entries in the following writing ·competitions has been extended to Wedu nesday, April 10: THE ALLEN ESSAY PRIZE: awarded to seniors in any department for nan-fiction essays. The writing may be a chapter from a thesis, a revised term paper, an essay written specifically for submission, etc. No limits of length are specified, but custom suggests a lower limit of 6-8 pages, and an upper limit of perhaps 30. THE VAN ORDEN PRIZE: for freshmen ( in any depart- ment) excelling in English composition. THE YUDIS PRIZE: for the student in any class who has produced the best piece of prose fiction. ACADEMY OF AMERJCAN POETS PRIZE: awarded an- nually for the best poem by a Union undergraduate. Each prize entry should be labeled with a pseudonym on both the paper and an attached sealed envelope; in~ ide the envelope should be the student's real name and address. All of this should be placed in a large manila envelope marked with the name of the competition for which it is being submitted. The envelope should be delivered to the Department office in Humanities 212, no later than 5:00 p.m. Wednesday, AprillO. Any questions about these competitions should be directed to Professor Frazier in the Humantiies Building (telephone 6214). ROLLING STONE is proud to announce the 1985 College Journalism Competition. Your entries will be judged by the editors of ROLLING STONE in the following categories: en- tertainment reporting, in- vestigative reporting and general reporting. A grand -rn1s IS Dl<tk woc>J> ~fOfl.TIN6- f'R01'1 U~ \ON COLl..£'G.E 1 w+H~~~ ST<JD£NTS t\1\VE BEE/\/ M~~\IJ~ .ooTSI.D:£: OF- CAitiiiC:GIE.. f'oP.. HOUt'?.5! \ t-(Ef!.:~ - r\-Y ~on~ of Ycluft ow.,! rod D ~ T •' f\T SEW~ 11\Y ]\ 11\t« c,~OWD £..CCli<S . wfilc.~ filL BR£f\K MY f£tJc.IC. i V 6lY 1 ouJ WE. Fl r-~1:- \ 1'\ FO~ BEtl.l6 1'}.\'? ut,£..Y. \ T prize of $2,500 will be awaraed for overall excellence, and prizes of $1,000 will be given in the remaining two categories. Rules: All entries must have been published in a university ar callege newspaper or magazine between March 16, 1984 and April 26, 1985. Each entrant must have been a full• or part-time student in an ac- credited university or college during the school year in which his entry was published. For more information con- tact: College Journalism Awards, Rolling Stone, 145 Fifth Ave., New York, NY 10151. The National Guitar Summer Workshop would like to an- nounce its first National Guitar Composition Competition. In an effort to encourage young composers to write for the guitar, the NGSW will be sponsoring annual contests. For information and guidelines, please contact: Mr. David Smolover, Director, NGSW, Box 222, Lakeside, CT., 06758 or (203) 567-8529. The President's Commission on the Status of Women at Union College is soliciting nominations for Prize Day awards as described in the following areas: Senior Thesis Prize: to the student whose senior thesis makes the greatest contribution to scholarship on women. Nominations are solicited from students submitting senior theses and from faculty receiving such submissions. Junior Scholarship Prize: to the junior student who shows the most scholarly ac- complishment in an area of interest and importance to women. Nominations are solicited from faculty offering documentation of student ac- complishments. Community Service Award: to the student who has devoted the most time and energy to furthering the cause of women at Union. Nominations are solicited from campus organizations submitting relevant information. Senior Award: to the senior who has done the greatest promotion of sports for women at Union. Non-senior Award: to the non-senior student who has shown the most promise in the area of women's sports. Nominations for both athletic awards are solicited from 'coaches and team members submitting documentation. If you wish to .. make a nominat.ion, please submit name(s) and documentation to Cheryl LaGuardia at the Library (x6281) or Lucille Paludi at the Administration Building (x6104) by April 12, 1985. SPEAKERS The Office of Student Affairs and The Counseling Center will co-sponsor a speaker on the topic of sex roles in higher education. Dr. Frances Hoff~ mann, Dean of Students at Skidmore College, will present ''Coeducation: Dilemmas ·of Sex and Gender,\ on Thursday, Aprilll from 4:30-5:30 p.m. in SS-016. A reception will follow at 5:30, all are welcome to attend and admission is free. ACTJVJTJES Union College students, faculty, and staff who wish to pre-register for the 20th annual Undergraduate Psychology Conference whieh will be held here at Union April19·21 should pick up a pre-registration form from the Psychology Depart- ment office or from Prof. Lipton. The registration fee is $20, but members of the Union College community may pre- register at a special rate of $5 (which does not include meals). Please visit the Conference table at Carnegie Hall to pre- register and to purchase an official Conference button ($1) and t-shirt { $6). Supplies of the buttons and t-shirts are limited and are destined to be collec- tor's items. Capitol Chamber Artists feature new work by Andrew Imbrie on Saturday, April13 at 8 p.m. at the Bush Auditorium in Troy, NY and on Suny, April 14 at 3 p.m. at the Albany Institute of History and Art. The work, Pilgrimage, is scored for flute, violin, clarinet, piano and cello. Tickets are $7 general adrnisstion and $5 for students. For more information please call 518-489-0507. The AIDS Council is hosting a variety of programs to promote AIDS Awareness in the com- munity. As part of the month's activities AIDS forums will be Union College Concert Committee Presents the dB's the Lyres the Reducers Thursday April 25 8:oop.m. Alumni Gym Student Tickets Only $4

rts. ~ a to the 12, will the ~her off~ at ~.·of in nts, to ogy e is pre- $5 pre- an the ited at any for and ~ral ~ase a be conducted in four counties: Thursday, 4-pril 11 and Thur- sday, April 25 at the Albany Public Library; and Tuesday, April30 at the Saratoga Springs Library. All forums are at 7 p.m. They are free and open to the public. For more details and information contact tbe AIDS Council office at 434-4686. Susannah McCorkle, .iazz and pop singer, wm have a concert Saturday, May 11, 1985, 8 p.m., at Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, 33 Second Street Troy, NY. Ticket prices are $8 and $6, sneiar citizen and student discounts apply. For further information call (518) 273-0038. CLUB NEWS An ad hoc committee has been established to gather in- formation relevant to the tenurability of Professor Christina Sorum of the Classic Department. Anyone wishing to contribute information may do so by sending or delivering it to l'rofessor Peter Tobiessen in the Biology Department (Sci. Eng. A-324). Newman Folk Group- Sunday evenings at 6:30 p.m. All singers and musicians meet with Friar Paul to prepare the 7:30p.m. Liturgy. Prayer-scripture Groups- Monday, April15 at 4 p.m. and Wednesday, April 17 at 11: 30 a.m. with Sr. Joan in Religious Programs Office. Newman Meeting & Social- Monday, April15 at 8 p.m. 4th floor loung~. Carneg!e. Tutorial Program-Any Union student interested in tutoring Reading one hour a week primarily to 2nd graders of St. John the Evangelist School, please contact Liz Karazim, 370-677 4. Overnight Retreat-'-April 19- 20 at St. Anthony-on-Hudson, Rensselaer from five on Friday W1til five on Saturday. Don:ation of $5 when you register with Sr. Joan. We will use the Romas 8 Program which takes its name from the vision of Paul the Apostle. This multi-media program imparts a vision, provides models to help us understand how the vision can become real for us, and finally, develops the skills we need to make the models and the vision come alive. The PRE-LAW SOCIETY has placed copies of the LSAC~ LSAS Law Package, containing a sample LSAT and the booklet \You The Law and Law School,\ on reserve at Schaffer Library. Announcing auditions for U.nion'.s mixed Choir. All students who are interested contact Chris at 381-1665 as soon as possible. The Biology Club will be holding elections on Tuesday, April 16, at 5:00 p.m. in Con- ference Room A. CLASSIFIEDS The Foreign and Domestic Teachers Organization needs teacher applicants in all fields from Kindergarten through College to fill over six hundred teaching vacancies both at home and abroad. For additional information about our organization, you may write The National Teachers' Placement Agency, Universay Teachers, Box 5231, Portland, Oregon 97208. Sales & Service position with U-Haul Company, 2516 Ham- burg St., Schenectady, N.Y. Full time or part-time leading to full-time working weekends & some evenings. Please apply in person to above address. Student to rake. Central Parkway area. Please contact 346-0015 or 346-7272. Jrs. and Srs. interested in being trained to sell please contact374-9815. Must have own transportation. Student interested in working part time--outside grounds keeper at Airport in Scotia- Richmor Aviation. Aircraft Lineman--cleaning aircraft, parking & moving aircraft. Please contact Richard Kaylor at 399-8171. Fixturing & Display hnplementation-year round position for part-time employee with flexible hours. Sears Roebuck & Co., 166 Erie Blvd., Schenectady, N.Y. 370~7015. Requirements: Basic car- pentry, minor mechanical, artistic feel for composition and presentation. Type of aptitude: organized, self-motivating, active and vigorous, willing to work without direction, able to interact with sales managers. J.HE 1~184-85 SKATING. DU·TOiiMEN HOCKEY TEAM would ,(ike· to ·thank the Union Colleg~. students 1 facul.ty, ,·and &tafff. as well as the Capital District Community, .for ·a I_ their outstandi.ng_ supp~rt dur- ing the· regular· season and espec1ally durmg the ECAC ·an·d NCAA Playoffs. Ygu are a very import- . . . anf part of our team, o·ll c ~I.. I. and we hope that we ' ~ brought to you enjoy- + Q ment and excitement .:) !ft during the year. Sincerely, J.lul S/tafiJzq (!).ukluntm CONCQRDIENSIS, Apri/11, 1985 Union Terms Abroad will sponsor a one time only question and answer period for students who plan to spend some time during the summer traveling in Europe. This meeting is not directed to students who are going on a term abroad. Professor Thomas and Joan Freeman will offer helpfUl hints on cutting costs to those who may be going abroad for the first time. The meeting will take place on Monday, April29 from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. m the Humanities Lounge. Ro.und Lake Victorian Village will.sponsor their Third Annual Fine Arts & Crafts Outdoor Festival on Saturday and · Sunday, August 17 and 18, 1985 .. Artists, musicians and craft- smen are requested. For fura · ther information or application for· space please call 518-899a 6138 or send a self-addressed stamped envelope to Jane c-o Festival, P.O. Box 234, Round Lake, NY _12151. Register before April 17 and 18 and receive 20 percent discount on space rental fee. The Troy Savings Bank Music Hall and the Rensselaer County Chapter of the American Heart Association are about to em- bark upon an adventure in fundraising: THE HEART BEATS SWING PARTY, Saturday, April13. available in the Career Development Center and the Student Activities Office and are due in the Career Dvelop- ment Center by Apri119. PERSONALS Dear PM: Why must I always be seen with the likes of elves and gnomes. Short elves and gnomes at that. People are starting to question my preferences, but then you truly know what those preferences are! -Always, Clarice Happy birthday o tactless one! ! ! ! P .S. A public thank you! Are you happy now? \And what's wrong with lavender and plum robes?\ shrieked the gambler, \They're faaaaaaaaaabulous!!!\ Women Ruggers-get psyched for this weekend and an awesome term! SDT Pledges-Why are we waiting? Beware! Donald, Let's go play some tennis! XXX, Daisy Hey Rah-Which is better when you are stoned-pizz~ or chocolate??????? -The Maps Students Dear Alyssa, _Happy Bir- Page 13 thday! ! Love always, your phellow physics phreaks Hey Sporto, Go sick on the wife hunt. BE! Flash Gordon. -your suities. P.S. Beware of Psychadellic and your \other\ ( J) admires. Alyssa-HAPPY BIRTHD- A Y! May all your birthday wishes come true. Thanks for being a great roommate. Love- Linda Clapping pig, drunken, where are you? Jodi and Pete- Congratulations. You guys really do make a cute couple. Keep smiling ... A conspirator Fellow Mercy Killers: \000- RAH!\ We are the CHAM- PIONS! Congrats Dave & AitdY for graduating with honors in volleyball. Cap'n Rich, it was great fun. See ya next season. Marianne Congratulations and best wishes to the \Egg Fag\ who's accepted to YALE MEDICAL!!!! To anyone interested in writing to a prisoner at the New York Prison in Comstock who has \lost all contact with the outside world,\ please send your letters to: Gary Krziwda 83A5719, Box 51, Comstock, N.Y. 12821, A-4-37. THE HEART BEATS SWING PARTY will be held at the Raymond Seik Center, Hudson Valley Community College. Donations are $25.00 per person, with proceeds going to the Troy Music Hall Association and the American Heart Association. Call the Music Hall for more information-273-0038. PERSONALS Only 25~ Each LOST: One little brown bear of Irish descent, during finals week. He and his luck are desperately needed! Please call X 6919. Order Forms Are Available in The Box Office During the first part of this term, the Career Development Center will be selecting students to work as Career Assistants for the 1985-1986 academic year. These paid, paraprofessional positions will require strong leadership abilities and interpersonal skills. Payment Must Accompany Form Bring both to the Concordy Office Application forms are by Tuesday at 4 p.m. AND ICELANDAIR INCLUDES AU THESE EXTRAS: D Free wine with dinner, cognac after-in flight. 0 Free deluxe roundtrip motorcoach between Luxembourg and select cities in Germany, Belgium and Holland. 0 Reduced train fares to Switzerland and France. 0 Super Saver . Kemwel car rentals at $59 per week in Luxembourg. WE'RE THE ONLY WAY TO FLY TO THE BREA'IHTAKING BEAUTY OF ICELAND • From a 24-hour stopover to a grand tour of two Weeks or more, we have the perfect package for a visit to Iceland, Europe's most beautifully kept sec·ret. All fares subject to change and $3.00 international departure tax. All fares valid 4/14·6/8185, except Orlando-5/1-5/31185. For infonnation, restrictions and reservations for all of lcelandair's low fares, calllcelanclair toll-free at 1-800-223-5500. In New York City 757-8585. Attention All Student Activity and Club Leaders BUDGETS 1985-86 ACADEMIC YEAR are due on lues., April 16 at 4:30 in Mrs. Marra's Office No funding will be given to groups who fail to hand in all budget materials at this time.

Page 14 The President's Commission on The Status ofWomenat ·u.nion College Wednesday Apri 117, 1985 \Contributions oj.Women. in the History of Music Musica Femina Musica Femina is dedicated to the presentation of both classical and contemporary· works by women composers. The duo consists of two pe.r· formers--Janna MacAuslan (guitar) and Kristan Aspen (flute). In her midday lecture, Janna MacAuslan, the research member of the team, will present an overview of important women in musical history. Foi.Jowing the noontime lee ture, at 8 p.m. in the Arts Department recital hall, Musica Femina will present a concert of works by women composers reaching back as far as El.izabeth Jacquet de Ia Guerre (1666- 1729). Banquet Room Carnegie, 12:30 p.m. EveryTI calculator comes with one extra number. * * * Thursday., April18, 1985 \Women in Washington\ Audrev Sheppard Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee 1-800-TI-CARES When you buy a Texas Instruments calculator you don't just buy a calculator, you buy Texas Instruments' com, mitment to quality. It's a commitment backed operations, or service questions, call us Monday thru Friday between 9 am and 4 pm CST, and we'll be glad to help. If your calculator needs repairing, we'll direct you to one of our 46 conveniently located service centers for an immediate exchange. Under warranty, it's free. If there's no center near you, we'll do it all by maiL Of course, there's just one catch. It has to be a Texas Instruments calculator. But then, if you're as smart as we think you are, why wouldn't it be? As Director of Campaign Services for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Com- mittee in Washington, D.C., Audrey Sheppard was in- volved in virtually every U.S. Senate race in 1984. Ms. Sheppard willdiscuss the growing and changing roles that women are involved in in the political life of Washington, D.C. by a fully developed service network that includes the · above toll,free number you can call from anyplace in the United States. TEXAS INSTRUMENTS Ms. Sheppard will be on campus as part of the Chester A. Arthur Centennial Lecture Series on Politics. She will also be speaking OA political careers from 2:00 to 3:00p.m., April 18, in the Career Development Center. If you have any applications, Creating useful products and services for you. Cnpynght © 1985 Texas lnsttuments lncmporated. TERM IN ISRAEL The term in Israel has been revised. The term will remain a winter term offering. It will be a combination work, study, travel program. Students will live on a kibbutz. They will take part in kibbutz life in order to thoroughly understand the unique lifestyle of a kibbutz. Students will be responsible for a research paper based on a course taught by Professor Berk entitled \Israel the Arabs and the Middle East.\ They will take Hebrew courses on the kibbutz. At the end of the term there will be an escorted tour of Egypt to gain an understanding of the relationship between Israel and th.e Arab world. All students at the College are eligible for this program. A prerequisite of Hebrew 10 is required, as well as a minimum cumulative average of 2.0. The deadline for applying to this program is May 15. For more information and application blanks see Professor Thomas or Joan Freeman in the Terms Abroad office. An orientation meeting for all students interested in the Israel program will take place Thur- sday, April 18 at 4:30p.m. in 55112. Budweiser, Northern Distributors and The Union College Rathskeller are Proud to present the ANNUAL FOOSEBALL TOURNAMENT The tournament will be held on Wednesday, April-24 and Thursday, April 25, 1985 The price is $2.00 per team (two persons to a team> Winning teams will·receive Cash and Prizes Sign up will start on April15, 1985 The house rules will be distributed at that time Banquet Room Carnegie, 12:30 p.m. Psychology Department Hosts Lecture Series During the spring term, the Psychology Department will host a series of lectures on issues in experimental psychology. Three speakers will present recent findings on the development of per- ception and memory. D1·. Helmut Hirsch of the SUNY Institute of Neurobiology will look at the interplay of our genetic endowment and visual experiences in the development of the visual system. The phenomenon of infantile amnesia, our inability to remember events from infancy, will be discussed by Dr. Norman Spear, Distinguished Professor of Psychology at SUNY Binghamton. Dr. Marianne Foley, of the Psychology Department at Skidmore College will look at the development of children's memories. In addition, Dr. Jainie Garnett, a psychologist at Behavior Changes Associates, will speak on the uses of biofeedback and other behavioral technologies in medical settings. All members of the college and the community are invited. Talks wili be held in the Psychology Building, Room 113. A wine and cheese reception will be held in the half hour preceeding each talk. Calendar Psychology Dept. Lecture Series • Tuesday, -April 16, 4.:00-\Nature versus Nurture: Functional Modification of the Developing Visual System.\ Dr. Helmut Hirsch, SUNY Institute of Neurobiology. • Thursday, April 25, 4:30-\Infantile Amnesia: Why Don't We Remember Our Earliest Experiences?\ Dr. Norman Spear, Dept. of Psychology, SUNY Bimghamton. Tuesday, April 30, 4:30-\Biofeedback Bridging the Gap.\ Dr. Jainie Garnett, Behavi-or Change Associates. Tuesday, May 23, 4:00-\Just How Confused Are Children About Their Memories?\ Dr. Marianne Foley, Dept. of Psychology, Skidmore College. CLUB HEADS: IT'S BUDGET TIME AGAIN

ted both · pe.r- spen the ~am, of I lee Arts cit a I will by 1666- ratic D.C., in- U.S. Ms. the roles in in of on will a of ~he ~tt. ~s. ~se ch, of By JAY GROSSMAN Sports Staff Ath·lete of the Week CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/11, 1985_ season, Remillard, a junior, serves as captain and was voted most valuable performer of last year's squad. He continues to be outstanding in the hammer . qualified him as an All- throw, discus, and shot put. In American. In the outdoo~ spring the first meet of the spring Congratulations goes to Scott season, vs. RPI, Remillard Remillard as the 1985 spring captured first place in the term's first athlete of the week. hammer throw (168-3), the sbot Remillard has been a three- put ( 43-o), and the discus (135- year standout in both indoor and 6). Concord.iensis wishes con- outdoor track at Union. In the tinued success to Scott NCAA Dvision III Indoor Track Remillard, an electrical Meet at Bates College, engine~r.ing major who hails Remillard .tossed the 35-pound from East Syracuse, NY, where weight a distance of 59 feet, he was the New York State three-quarter inches. This feat record .holder in the discus. Laxmen Gain Strong Start ByMARKLEYTON CPSIS With the help of a new coach and a new attitude, the 1985 Union Men's Lacrosse team is on its way to its first non~losing season• since 1978. \Changing the attitude is my biggest challenge,\ said rookie head coach Mike Toop. Toop, a former &ssistant coach at Albany State, who took over from Fran Meagher, is a graduate of the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. In an attempt to turn the program around, Toop is bringing new ideas to the Dutchmen squad, inCluding an intensive preseason ' con- ditioning program and a new found desire to win. \I've told them before that they don't know how to win. Each game challenged us in a different way and we were able to rise to that _ challenge.\_ During spring break the that appeared to be lacking in Dutchmen had three victorious previous years. The offense is regular season games. For the led by senior co-captain Marc first two, the team headed to Ehudin who has 14 goals and 3 · Connecticut and New Jersey. In assists. In addition, senior Eric the first .contest, the Dutchmen Kaye has three goals and seven were hosted by Connecticut assists and Phil Horn, a fresh- College and overcame a late- man, has 11 goals and 5 assists. game surge to triumph by the At midfield, John Romeo and score of 8-5. Their next .sophomore Andy Ross along challenge was last year's ECAC with senior Mike Weisberger New England title winner, are backed by senior Tim Bowdoin. Union trailed 7-2 at Clorite and sophomore Jimmy halft'ime, but rallied to win the Olney. Union's solid defense is game in an outstanding fashion led by three-year letter winner, 9-7. This victory was exemplary senior co-captain John Drake of the new character that coach and seniors Tim Meyer and Toop has instituted. Todd Johnston. They are solidly For the next victory, Union backed by sophomore Mark hosted Rochester and Leyton and freshman Gary proceeded to pound them 13-5 in Cornick. In goal is rookie _ a game which had each standout John Thorne. member giving his all for the entire course of the game. The key to the lacrosse team's success is not due to any in- dividual player, rather it is due to a total team effort, something If Union can continue their , strong fourth quarter and overall tenacious play, the future looks brightefor Toop and his Dutchmen. Page 15 SPORTS Josh Greene On Sports Somewhat like the changing of the guard, the name and picture will change but the column will remain. Thanks, Scott Wykoff, for over two years ·of quality reporting and for the creation of the column! What better place to start than a recap of the 84-85 Hockey season ... On December 15 the Union College skating Dutchmen found themselves sporting a 4-5 mark, a far cry from last year's bid for the national cham- pionship. On the eighth of January the Dutchmen braced themselves for their annual confrontation with the Engineers from RPI, the eventual Division I National Champions. Fresh from a two- week Christmas vacation, the Union Pucksters gave the Engineers ali they could han- dle; leading 2-1 with under a minute to play, RPI tied the game and eventually won 3-2 in an overtime thriller. As the capacity crowd filtered out of Achilles still aching from a defeat snatched right from the victory column, the '85 Dut- chmen had left their calling card, they had arrived ... Over the ensuing six weeks the skating Dutchmen racked up an impressive 12-1-1 record blemished only by a 2-2 tie against the Warriors from Merrimack and a final game defeat at the hands of Mid- dlebury, 3-2 in overtime. At home, the Dutchmen proved themselves unbeatable against Division II opponents during the regular season posting seven wins and a tie. Perhaps it was a defense that ranked amongst the stingiest in Division II that backboned the success of the 84-85 Dutchmen. Maybe it was the offense which boasted five players averaging better than a point a game, probably it was combination of those along with many other factors that enabled the Union Hockey Program to once again become a force in Division II Hockey. \Lady Luck\ appeared to fall squarely on the shoulders of this year's squad as the Pucksters enjoyed a season free from any major injuries. The quarterfinals of the E.C.A.C. western division saw the Dutchmen pitted against Elmira. Seeded behind RIT and Plattsburgh, the homestanding Dutchmen braced themselves for a greatly improved Elmira club; in a prior meeting Union prevailed 7-2. The game proved to be what everyone expected: a low scoring contest with both goalies playing key roles. As the final buzzer sounded the skating Dutchmen escaped with a 3-2 victory and a ticket to Platt- Sburgh,the site of their next opponent. This being the third time Union and Plattsburgh took to the ice this season, each ha·ving prevailed at home, Plattsburgh 5-4 in OT and Union 7-2 late in the season, this was destined to be a war with the winner earning a berth in the Western finals and a certain trip to the N.C.A.A.'s. The loser could only think about what might have been and hope for a possible shot at the final eight. The lead was taken by Platt· sburgh midway through the second period and held until the final minute of the game when freshman right wing Gary Temush notched the tying goal. Just seconds into the second overtime senior center Bill Wernecke scored on a breakaway and placed Union one step closer to a E.C.A.c. Western division title. Next stop for the Union Skaters was RIT, and a shot at the championship that had eluded the Dutchmen the previous year. Within the confines ·of Achiiles Rink, the Dutchmen have always been made to feel right at home; at RIT's Rither Memorial Rink the Union Skaters received no such hospitality. Coach Morrison had to defuse RIT's high-powered offense as well as contend with officiating that was questionable at best. Rising above thunderous chants of RIT, some three hundred Union faithful inspired the Union Skaters with constant en- couragement. Union jumped ahead 2-1 at the end of the first period thanks to the stellar efforts of goaltender Wayne McDougall who closed the door on the Tigers time after time. The final score, a 7-3 Union victory was a tribute to a tremendous team effort with every player turning in an outstanding performance. McDougall received the MVP for the tournament registering over fifty saves in the final. Babson, last year's Division III champion, was the next obstacle for the Skating Dut- chmen. The site was Achilles Rink, a total goals series similar to that played by Union against Wisconsin River Falls last year. Union players seemed calm and confident; however, the 7-0 defeat in last year's championship game against Babson was fresh in everyone's mind. The result, an excellent team effort in game one ending in· a 5-1 Union victory. McDougall sparkled once again in the nets making thirty saves. One good game was all that the Union Skaters needed t-o propel themselves into the final four for a second time in as many years. Babson prevailed 3-2 giving Union their first home loss to a Division II opponent all season. Union entered the final four by virtue of a 7-4 victory in goals scored. In the semifinals Union faced RIT, a rematch of the western finals as well as last year's semifinal game which Union won 5-4 in the fourth overtime. The final four was to be held at Achilles, which was an ap- parent advantage for the Dutchmen. Unfortunately, this year, history would not repeat itself: after sixty minutes of hockey, the Skating Dutchmen found themselves on the short end of a 3·2 score.xThe following day, Union rallied to up-end Plattsburgh 9-6 for third place, a tribute to the six seniors who played their last game. While close seems to only count in horseshoes and han- dgrenades, or so the saying goes, the 84-585 Skating Dut- chmen should hold their heads . high. To the graduating seniors who are responsible for turning the Union College Hockey Program around, Thanks for a job well done!

16 11, 1985 SPORTS Rugby Domination Continues By J.R. FORTUNATO Sports Staff If there is any one team that will fail to uphold Union's reputation for atheletic ex- cellence this year, it surely will not be the Rugby Football Club. The Club beat Hamilton last Saturday decisively, main~ taining an undefeated record in the Upstate Rugby Union. The team's performance in the fall will be \a tough act to follow\ this spring, but if there have been any changes in tbe team's potential, those changes have apparently been for the better. With the additian of twa new ball-handlers, namely Tim Riley and Ron Amidon, the Club's line is faster and stronger than ever. Fur- w thermore, with David Blee at u hooker, and with stiffer com- ~ petition amang the team's ~ forwards, the serum is more .E 0 intimidating than ever. .c shut-out by scrummers, namely Jim McNeil, Dave Blee, and Ed Hart (who scored twice! ) •. the line's Andy Klump converted two of those tries with kicks in heavy winds through shaky goalposts. Furthermore, the scrummers would have been at a severe disadvantage without the excellent field position some of the toughest, \gutsiest\ athletes in any lea·gue anywhere, who have ''only just begun\. The next match will be Saturday at home against Siena,- who Union sees as the next stepping stone towards its second consecutive cham- pionship! . Senior Union Rugger Jim McNeil escapes would-be tacklers in qaining possession for Union. DUTCHMEN SP·ORTSW·EEK AprillO-AprH 17 Thursday 4/11 Men's Basepall vs. Hartwick Men's-Lacrosse vs. Albany Women's Lacrosse vs. Russelt Sage Women's Softball vs. Albany Friday 4/12 Men's Baseball atHamUton Men's Tennis at Sieha Saturday 4/13 Men's Baseball at Oneonta (2) Men's Lacrosse vs. Oneonta Women's Lacrosse vs. Castleton Women's Softba II at Skidmore (2) Men's Track at Binghamton lnvy Women's Track at Albany lnvy Monday 4/lS Women's Lacrosse vs. Rochester Tuesday 4/16 Men's Golf at Skidmore Women's Softball at Williams Men's Tennis at Albany Wednesday 4/17 Baseball vs. North Adams Men's Lacrosse at Middlebury Women's Lacrosse vs. Williams 3:00p.m .. 3:00p.m. 7:00p.m. 3:30p.m .. 3:00p.m. 3:00p.m. • 1:00 p.m. 2:00p.m. l:OO.p.m. 1:00 g.m. 4:00p.m. 1:30p.m. 3:30p.m. 3:00p.m.. J:OOp.m. 3:00p.m. 4:00p.m. I------GARNET SCOREBOARD------I March 30-Aprila Union9 Union 13 St. Lawrence 12 Geneseo7 St. Lawrence 6 St. Lawrence 7 RPI90 MEN'S LACROSSE MEN'S BASEBALL MEN'S TRACK Bowdoin7 Rochester S Union 4 Union6 UnionS UnionS Union73 The Hamilton game Saturday ~ was a case in point. Perhaps in in an attempt to hide their fears,. :J two Hamilton forwards shaved the hair on their heads into an \H\ shape. The fact that the crew cuts made the hair on their heads stand up straight, failed to make up for their severe height disadvantage. With one forward at 6ft. 2 inches tall, and three at 6 ft. 3 inches, Union's serum forced Hamilton to ask for a serum-down each time they had the choice. Hamilton's serum, however, was no better off in the scrummage than it was in the lineout since Union's serum was not only taller, but more powerful. Hamilton's techniques of shoving into the serum early in an effort to catch the Union scrummers off. guard, and of pushing down- ward on Union's front row in an effort to collapse the serum were not enough to overcome Union's strength. Whether in the line-out or in the serum, Union's Steve Lipsky, Jeff Albrecht, Ed Hart, Jim McNeil, John Friske, and Co-Captain Doug Baumgarten dominated play. (J. R. Fortunato filled in for All Eastern Rugby Union Prop Meade Summers.) made available by Co-Captain- fullback Scott Collins, and linemen Jeff Wilson, Steve Cole, Rob Israel, Steve Conlin, and Tim Riley. Tracksters Begin Spring Season .,_ ttl 0. >- .0 0 .... 0 .c a. Equally important, the Union line played alertly and aggressively. Even though all four tries were scored in the 20-0 The win Saturday was the result of a team effort. Neither the serum nor the line would have performed as they did without the knowledge that they were being supported, with enthusiasm, by their team- mates, both on and off the field. Hats off to Union's 1st XV, a group of young men sure to be the team to beat in the Upstate Rugby tournament April 27th. The killer B' s showed no lack of the strength and the skill common ainong Union Ruggers as they calmly beat Hamilton's B-side 10-4. Again, the win was a team effort, but the most notable .efforts were made by the two players who scored tries, Ron Amidon and J ody Perkins, and the kicker who converted ·the tries, Matt Chambers. The Rugby Football Club at Union has proven to be an organized, efficiently run (hats off to Co-Captain Doug Baumgarten) club sporting SPORTSLINE Every Mon., Wed., Fri. 7:30-8:00 on WRUC89.7 FM TRIVIA prizes every show JOIN THE EXPERTS! .. Recent 150m hurdle action in Union's .first meet of the spring outdoor season vs. RPI. Union was defeated 90·73. By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff The Union men's track team hit a high water mark of success last March 15 and 16 as the Dutchmen placed fifth at the New York State Indoor Track and Field Championships at Hamilton College. Highlighted by three individual State champion performances and one school record, the Dut- chmen scored 44 points, just getting edged out by Ithaca and Cortland with 49 and 48 points respectively. Fredonia easily won the team title with 151 points. Coach Russ Ebbets was very pleased with his team's per- formance getting as much and more than he had hoped for. With the 44 points and the fifth place finish, the Dutchmen ended up scoring and placing higherthan any Union team had at least in the four years that Ebbets has been coach. The big victory of the day came in the 3200 meter relay. The quartet of 800 meter run- ners came together and seemed to melt together perfectly as they ran a winning time of 7:50.73. Mike Reed led off with a 1:57.9 split followed by Winston Britton's 1:59.3. The two fastest splits were last when Jeff Barker ran a 1:57.0 and then handed off to Rob Mohlar who anchored a blazing 1:56.2 leg. Winston Britton then went on to successfully defend his state title in the 500 meter event with a time of 1:05.47. In the field events, Union was well represented by junior Scott Remillard. Already an All- American in the 35 lb. weight, Remillard easily won the event for the State Championship with a throw of 57 feet even. Remillard then went on to place fourth in the shot put with a throw of 47 ft. 6 inches. Sophomore Rob Mohlar continued the . scoring for the Dutchmen by placing fourth in the 1000. meter run with a time of 2:33.48. Rounding out the socring was a fine performance by Chris O'Donnell in the 3000 meter run. O'Donnell placed third in the event with a time of 8:42.92-good enough to set a Union school record, This quality team per- formance is a result of the work the Union tracksters have done this year and a sign of better things to come as the program continues to get bettter. Ebbets will be losing only Britton from his indoor State Meet team which hints toward better team performances in the future. Ebbets notes that competition in the future could be tougher because now Union is getting some quality recognition and teams around the state will start aiming at beating the Dutchmen. Hopefully the Union track team can meet the challenge and continue their good fortunes. · With the taste of the State Meet still fresh in their mouths, the Union tracksters got back into action beginning their outdoor circuit one week after vacation at home against RPI. Defeated three times indoors by the Engineers from Troy, the Dutchmen fell again, due to lack of depth, by a score of 90- 73. Union was able to take ten first places but were only able to score 23 2nd and 3rd place points to RPI's total of 45. In the field events Scott Remillard was a multiple winner taking the Hammer Throw Discus, and Shot put with throws of 168 ft. 3 inches, 135 ft. 6 inches and 43ft. respectively. Wayne Lacy easily won the pole vault at 13 ft. 6 inches·and Bob Bertagna was first in the triple jump with a jump of 43 ft. 4% inches and second in the long jump at 20 ft. 9 inches. When the running events gpt started the Dutchmen ran off two straight wins in be 400 meter relay and the steeple chase. In the 3000 meter steeple chase Chris O'Donnell ran unchallenged for most of the race as he moved to a 9:31.3 finish setting a new school record. After that race Mike Reed lost by one tenth of a second to Lemay of RPI in the 1500 meter run. The Dutchmen were only able to get two more wins, both from Winston Britton. The Union speedster won at 400 meters in 50.2 seconds and won a hard-fought 200 in 22.6. The Dutchmen easily won an in- consequential mile relay. to round out the meet with a time of 3:34.4. The men's track team gets back into action on W ~dnesday when they travel to Hamilton for a dual meet with the Con- tinentals. On Saturday part of the team will go to Binghamton for the Binghamton Invitational. Union will also send some representatives to St. John's on Sunday for the Red Men Classic. The women start their out- door season on Wednesday also against Hamilton and again race on Saturday in Albany at the Albany Invitational. Support Union , . Sports .

.. • :OOp.m. :OOp.m. :OOp.m. :OOp.m. :30p.m. :30p.m. :00 p.m. :.OOp.m. :OOp.m. :OOp.m. 7 5 Union 4 Union6. Unions UnionS triple ft. 4% long got ran off be 400 steeple ran of the 9:31.3 school lost to meter ~re only both n. The at 400 ~.6. The an in- ~lay to a time gets he Con- part of ~ham ton ton also to the Red out- again bany at • CXIV, No. 18 Bulk Rate U.S. Postage ~aid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 April 18, 1985 Arts Building Dedicated Vice President for Administration Them as D'Andrea spoke on dedicating the Arts Bui.lding last Saturday. President Morris is in the background. BY PETER MOHR Staff On Saturday, April 13, the newly renovated Arts BUilding was formally dedicated in the Herman and Rose Burns Student Forum. Present at the ceremony were members of the Board of Trustees and the Alumni Council, numerous members ()f the campus community, and the benefac- tors of the new facilities. In his welcome address, President Morris noted that the new building serves as \. . . a tangible symbol of the im- portance o£ the (Arts) program scholastically and culturally at Union.\ Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, Chairman of the Arts Department, noted his deep Union-to Host Conference By ,l'ETER LEVENTHAL On April19, 20 and 21, Union College will host the 2oth annual New York State Undergraduate Psychology Conference. The Urtion psychology department's efforts, over a year of hard work and· planning, should successfully culminate in what has already been coined, \the largest and· most com- prehensive conference of its kind.\ and flyers. _ to surrounding. colleges, inviting interested students to the conference and also instructing students who wanted to present papers to submit a 150();.word summary and a 50-word abstract describing their papers. Because of the students' strong dedication, the con- ference will attract one hundred and fifty academia from over thirty-five schools .from as far away as Michigan, Ohio, Pexmsylv~nia1 _and _Quebe~. From all the entries, the committee chose fifty-four papers. A sampling of topics to be discussed will be: \A Field Study of Obscene Language\; \Social Anxiety, Affiliation, and Fear of Rejection\; and \Psychology and the Cinema;'. Each student whose paper has been selected by the committee, will present a twelve-minute presentation and Continued on page 4 The conference will give undergraduate students the opportunity to present research papers they have done and learn about other students' research. They will also be able to attend workshops conducted by Union's psychology dep~rtment. Fraternity Violates Policy . . . House Hazes Plans for this year's con- ference began at last year's conference at Geneseo. The student committee of Geneseo met with visiting Union students to discuss procedures for organizing a conference. To avoid the lukewarm participation of the past, Dr. Lipton, conference coordinator and faculty advisor, designed a special topic course devoted solely to the maintenance and planning of Union's conference. The eleven students wh6 enrolled in the course automatically became the conference committee mem- bers. This course insured full attention to theproject. From September until March 8 (the paper entry deadline); the committee sent out posters By LAURIE BIDSTRUP In the early morning hours on Friday, March 8, 1985, the brothers of the Theta Delta Chi fraternity allegedly ''kid- napped\ one of their pledges. They drove him about five miles off campus, left him unattended for approximately half an hour, and then picked him up and brought him back to the cam- pus. Mid-morning of March 8, the pledge slept through an exam and his professor was informed of the kidnapping episode. The professor in- terpreted it as hazing and brought the incident to the attention of the Dean of Keep up with Dutchmen athletics! . •See Sports pages• TAP legislation discussed •page 3• Students. The administration labeled the episode as hazing and acted accordingly. They suspended Theta Delta Chi's pledging activities and placed the house on indefinite social probation. They also demanded that the fraternity take a position of leadership in the campus community to alert the Greek system of the dangers of hazing. \Because Theta Delta Chi admitted to doing the kid- napping, the College did not press charges against the fraternity,\ said Dean Massa. Hazing is a potentially dangerous activity and the College cannot condone it. Furthermore, it is against N.Y. State Law, which declares that, \any action or situation that recklessly or intentionally endangers the physical or mental health of a student in- cluding harassment, in- timidation or hazing, the forced consumption of liquor, drugs or other liquid or solid substance for the purpose of initiation mto or affiliation with any organization, or the conduct which recklessly or in- tentionally endangers or threatens the health, safety or Continued on page 5 appreciation for those who made the new building a reality, stating \In this splendid building, the Arts have a true home at Union.\ The impetus to improving the arts program was a bequest from Walter Kreusi, who graduated £rom Union in 1902. In his will, Kreusi stated that the funds were to be applied to the arts department. This fund, which grew to $250,000 by 1980, was employed in the first stage of the three-phase restoration project. The renovations were designed by John Mesick of the Albany architectural firm Mendel, Mesick, Cohen, and Waite. The renovations to the Arts Building began in 1982. During the summer of that year, the first phase was completed. This stage consisted of the tem- porary Kreusi galleries, which now serve as offices, a graphics ropm, and a stairwell designed to meet fire code regulations. The entrances to the building were also .relocated so as to allow the south .facade to more closely resemble the original plan designed by Joseph Jacques Ramee in the early eighteenth century. The second phase, which began in the summer of 1984 and was completed · in late December,· has provided sub- stantial improvements to the building. Included in this stage is the two-story Herman and Rose Burns Student Forum and the Performing Arts Center located on the first floor. The former gallery, which is a completely new addition to the building, was named after the parents of benefactor Arnold I. Burns, who is also Chairman of the Board of Trustees. This room will be used primarily as exhibition space for student works. The Performing Arts Center will serve as a facility for musical recitals and dance classes. The first floor also contains a new sculpture studio at the north end of the building. This phase has produced major improvements on the second floor as well. A new drawing studio has replaced an old suite of offices. The second floor also contains two new faculty offices as well as a room designed to hold the art department's slide library. The photography labs have been redesigned and have been provided with new equipment. Ventilation among the rooms, which is important when working with chemicals, has been significantly bnproved. According to photo technician Beth Stinson, one of the greatest assets of the new photo labs is the addition of a room which may serve in the development of color photos. She notes that the department will now be able to work toward developing courses which will center on color inlages. There were numerous other grants which assisted in the development of the second phase. The Kresge Foundation of. Troy, Michigan provided the College with a three-for-one matching grant of $100,000. In Continued on page 4 A vi.ew of the \brook that bounds through old Union grounds.'' Ill It 0' J:: u (1) c J:: 0. rc Cl >- D £ 0 .s:: 0.

Page2 ·CONCORDIENSIS,Apri/-18; 1985 Union Food Future Discussed: Hale House to Close Q) \0 0 Food Servi'ces Director, Jan Gray, talks about her ideas for the future offood service M Union. By DAVE MARIN Staff Mter the Parents' Weekend brunch on May 12, Hale House Dining Hall will close for the l,'emainder of the school year as will Old Chapel. This will leave approximately three hundred upperclass meal card holders to find alternate places to eat. Director of Food Service Jan Gray plans . to accommodate these additional diners in several ways. First she plans to Poet Tall Comes to Union By ADAM EMERSON Poet Deborah Tall visited Union College Monday, April15, to present her views on recent women's poetry. Her talk, \The Will to Change: Recent Women's Poetry,\ was spon- sored by the English Depart- ment, the Women's Network, and the Minerva Committee. Tall, author of the Ninth Life, presently teaches at Hobart and William Smith Colleges and edits the Seneca Review. Tall's lecture centered on \Translations a poem written by political poet Adrieillle Rich. After a soothing reading of the poem, Tall dove into the con- troversial world of women's poetry. Although Tall's lecture did not encompass an in-depth review of recent women's poetry, it did feature a fine critique of Rich's . poem. Primarily with reference to \Translations she praised and criticized the different aspects of Rich's style. · The actual poem· had Rich observing a woman poet in a later generation becoming obsessed with love. \she's a woman of my time obsessed with Love, our subject: we've trained it like ivy to our walls baked it like bread in our ovens ... \ Tall informed the audience that she did not like putting apoem up to be criticized. And, although she clearly had problems with \Translations she was impressed with its authenticity, passion, and true feelings. She went on to explain that all poems display an honesty that cannot be taken away from the author. Unfortunately, honesty does not save \Translations\ as Tall analyzes it. Tall was par- ticularly upset with the poem's ending, in which Rich sums up the poem on her own. Referring to the cruelty of love, Rich concludes, '' .. .ignorant this is shared, and political\ of the fat way of grief unnecessary Tall resented the lack of chance for interpretation because of this ending. \I feel like I'm in a lecture rather than in a poem.\ She stressed the ,importance of silence and tactics in a poem. If the poet spells out the poem for the reader, the poet is condescending. Quoting essayist W. D. Snodgrass, Tall gave one of her favorite quotes: \The Latin route of con- descension means we all sink.\ Tall warned of the danger of the poet displaying a sense of superiority at the risk of in- sulting the reader. Tall then spoke of the ideology of poetry. \Ideas must grow so we don't see failures and definitions in them.\ She continued, saying ideas open doors but also close doors. In other words, Adrienne Rich as \carved a territory,\ but her feminist and political ideas must be expanded. Quoting feminist Vivian Gornuck, Tall stated, \ideological truth is fixed, hwnan beings are not.\ Tall expressed her desire to use Rich's ideologies but also to go beyond them and discover. As Tall read from Snodgrass, \ ... the world remains a mystery.\ HOUSING WTfERY 1985-86 • Co-op interest meeting-Apr. 30, 6:30p.m., Fox Lounge. All members of your co-op must attend. • Distribution of lottery numbers- May 9: 6:30-8 p.m., Residence Life Office. Senior~ MUST BRING ID 6:30-8 p.m., Davidson Lounge. Sophomores MUST BRING ID 6:30-8 p.m., Fox Lounge. Juniors MUST BRING ID .. • Co-op Lottery-May 20,6:30 p.m., Stage II-Carnegie. Must bring ID, lottery card. All members of co-op must be present • Singles Lottery-May 20, 6:30 p.m.;· Stage II-Carnegie. Must bring ID, Lottery card. . . • Senior Lottery, Doubles & Suites-May 20, 6:30p.m., Stage II- Carnegie. Must bring ID; Lottery card. All roommates must attend. • Junior Lottery, Doubles & Suites-May 23, 6:30p.m., Stage 11- Carnegie. Must bring ID, Lottery card. All roommates must attend. • Sophomore Lottery, Doubles & Suites-May 28,6:30 p.m., Stage II-Carnegie. Must bring ID, Lottery card. All roonunates must attend. *Stage II is located across from WRUC on the 3rd floor of Car- negie. REMEMBER: -You must have your ID and lottery card when choosing a room. -The class member present with the lowest lottery nwnber will have first pick. -The class member with the next lowest lottery nwnber, and present, will follow. . . -All roommates MUST BE PRESENT and SIGN CONTRACTS when the room or suite is chosen~ -Only four people may claim a suite. -All occupants of a room or suite who are found to have cheated will lose any rights to the room or suite. Additionally, the person(s) who cheated will be fined$100. extend lunch and dinner hours at West Dining Hall for the rest of the term. Most of the kitchen staff from Hale House will move to West College after May 12. Another option for up- perclassmen will be to use their mealcards for dinner at the Dutch Hollow Pub. Unlike the system us.ed in the Skeller, extra portions will probably be available to students at the Pub, making it .similar to meals at West College. Gray indicated that if she found that students preferred the cash value system used by the Skeller, she also would consider implementing that at the Pub. In addition, the Skeller will be extending its hours for mealcard lunches. Finally, Gray introduced two possibilities. One is that there may be outdoor eating in front of West College on the new patio area. She also said that students will be able to call ahead for a bagged meal (lunch of dinner). She hopes that this will help alleviate some of the strain on the dining facilities. With this system, students will have to call by 9:00a.m. for lunch and 2: 00 for dinner. The upperclass dining facilities are closing early so that they may be renovated by the start of fall term next year. Renovations will include remodeling the kitchen for long- term use after upperclass dining is moved to the new College Center. This will turn Hale House and Lower Lounge into the equivalent of the cash Pub for the next two years until the College Center is completed. It will also make Old Chapel functional for dining next fall. F1or approximately two years, _ Old Chapel will be the main dining facility for up- perclassmen and will extend its hours to accommodate the loss of the Hale House seats. After dining is moved to the College Center, Gray sees many possibilities for the Old Chapel. \I hope people will view (the renovations) positively and really rally around it for the next two years.\ Jan Gray In addition to the functions it will already be serving for talks, lectures, and shows, she would like to see it used for Dutchmen's night-type events, perhaps some performances by bands, and even a steakhouse that would operate several nights a week. Gray says that conditions Will not be ideal for the next two years, but th~y will not be overly cumbersome. She sees the possibility for many benefits after this transition period and concludes, \I hope people will view this positively and really rally around it for the next two years.\ Room Lottery The room lottery will be conducted from May 9 to May 28. The computer will randomly assign numbers to students by class year. That is to say, the computer randomly assigns numbers to members of the classes of 86, 87, and 88 that live in college-owned residence halls. The computer then translates the random number to a number that is underst9ndable--one through 300-- roughly the class size each year. This will be done for each class size for each year. This will be done for each class with the exception of th1= incoming new students' and graduating seniors. Only students living in in- dependent (non-Greek) residence halls are eligible to participate in the lottery. Members of the Residence Life Staff will distribute to eligible students a lottery card bearing the student's name, I D number, and lottery number. The student MUST present his/her I D and pick up his/herf lottery card IN PERSON. Only students presenting I D's will receive a lottery card. The selection of available on-eampus housing will be divided into three categories: co-ops/singles/doubles, triples and suites. There will be a meeting to expla.in the selection process for Co·ops on April 30. Members of the Residence Life Staff wi II answer questions. about the co- op lottery. The remainder of the campus housing will be selected according to each student. Singles Lottery: The senior with the lowest lottery number (#1) will have first choice of available singles. The senior with the next lowest lottery number (#2) will have the second choice. If some singles have not been selected and there are no more seniors present, the junior present with the lowest number will have first choice of the remaining singles. This process will continue until all singles have been selected or no eligible student is present to select a sing I.e. Double and Single Lottery: The lottery for doubles, triples and suites will conclude the process. The senior lottery will be held first. followed by the junior lottery, and, finally, the sophomore lottery. The class member present with the lowest lottery number will have first pick. The class member with the next lowest number, and present, will follow. When a suite or double is selected, all roommates MUST BE present and all MUST,SIGN CONTRACTS. The room or suite will be placed back into the lottery if any of the roommates do not sign the contract when the room or suite is selected. All occupants of a room or suite who are found to have cheated will lost any right to the roor:n or suite. Additionally, the person{s) who cheated will be fined $100. Points of interest: class standing is deter- mined by the number of credits received at the end of the winter term--no exceptions; you must be on campus all of spring term to participate in the lottery; four people must select a suite--not three or two students but four.

~ cash until fall. main up- its loss After ~ollege view rally two it for she for ~es by veral Will two be ~ sees and will two to of a for ~nts' in- to to 1 s ent Nil I be tfle the co- be I the ere the ing a the a BE or the or or be the an CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/18, 1985 Page3 Professor Defines Death ByGREGFAY Staff \Defining Death\ was the topic of the philosophy department colloquiwn led by Thomas Tomlinson of Michigan State University on Friday, April 12. Establishing when a human body is no longer living, explained Tomlinson, becomes very important when organ transplants are involved. Stated Tomlinson, ''We want to be sure transplanted organs are fresh. If we can declare someone dead on a respirator, then there is no problem. But if not; then the donation of a fresh organ wouldn't be posthumous. That injects a whole different kind of moral problem with operating respirators.\ Tomlinson then read from a news article stating that a comatose boy was declared dead only after his kidney had been removed for a transplant. Tomlinson said this happens often. He began the discussion by describing the condition of two different hypothetical patients, in order to outline the two ex- treme definition.s of death. The first patient, although she can breathe unassisted, has been in a coma, profoundly unaware and unresponsive, for many months. The upper portion of her brain has been irreversibly destroyed, so that she will never regain consciousness: Persons for whom this patient meets the minimum requirements for a declaration of death Tomlinson labeled \radical.\ The second patient, in con- trast, is comatose and cannot breathe unassisted by a respirator. People who believe that even this person is alive Tomlinson labeled '' reac- tionary.\ He noted that 16,000 people in the United States are in the same predicament as the first patient and that it costs millions of dollars to support them each year. The condition of the second patient, however, would legally be bad enough to declare that person dead in most states. Stated Tomlinson, \If we believe that both patients are dead ... then death for us must have something more than an organic reference. It must have a psychological reference.\ Under these conditions, stated Tomlinson, \Death amotmts to the irrevocable loss of the capacity for experience.\ Tomlinson asserted that \There are some complexities to this definition.\ For exam• ple, \Someone can be dead though their heart continues to beat.\ In addition, he knows of \lots of anecdotal reports of patients regaining con- sciousness.\ On the other hand, if we are reactionary and believe that neither patient described is dead, the implication is \That whether someone dies is a factor within human control. It adds tremendous complexities to the ethics of how to use respirators,'' stated Tomlinson, mentioning the news article he had brought, He commented that a compromise between the radical and reactionary views of death has been sought by the medical community. But his thesis was that ''There really is no compromise that is stable.\ Tomlinson then outlined the compromise that a committee of doctors at Har- vard University devised in the early 1970s, which he called a \conservative\ view. The definition of death under this view is the \irreversible loss of the capacity to integrate the organism as a whole!' Among the criteria to be used in order to determine whether this definition is satisfied would be the incapacity to breathe spontaneously, and the lack of responsivity and reflexivity. In other words, the whole brain must be destroyed. Asserted Tomlinson, \What was important about these tests is that they could be applied to patients who are on respirators.\ But he argued that this view is flawed because \The conservative definition is not very strongly connected to the . . . criteria.\ To prove his argument, Tomlinson conjectured: ''What if we· had ... a super respirator that was able to perform all the functions of a brain stem?\ Then the capacity ·to integrate the organism as a whole would exist, even though the whole brain would be destroyed. The conservative criterion for death would be satisfied but the definition of death ·would not, making useless the Harvard committee's compromise view. Several listeners, however, would not accept Tomlinson's counter-example invalidating the compromise conservative view of death. For example, Reinvitation to Union . . . Applicants Visit By DAVID GULLIVER staff With new plans for spring term, Union's Admissions Office has extended its efforts to increase freshman enrollment. The amount of applications 3200, is an increase from last year, and the school has already accepted 100 Early Decision deposits.. Union is now at~ tempting to secure some of the 1250 accepted can<!J.dates. The Admissions staff has The Admissions Staff has maned formal invitations to the , prospective freshman encouraging campus vi;dts. mailed formal invitations to the prospective freshmen en- couraging campus visits during April. The letters offer to arrange campus tours with Gatesmen, to have class and lab visits, and to meet with faculty members. The Financial Aid staff will be available ·for discussion as well. The College also invites students and their families to have a meal at Union and provides them with meal cards for the day. Last year, more than 300 families accepted this offer over the course of the spring. Among this year's new plans is a · letter from the Student Forum to be included with the invitation. This letter, ac- cording to Assistant Dean of Admissions Ann LOwery, in- vites visitors to visit the Student Activities office which will be staffed by Forum members. \The purpose,\ said Lowery, \is to make students aware of activities here beyond the ob- vious.\ This would include groups and organizations not immediately visible on tours. Olte such group, the Women's Netwook, has expressed in- terest in sending letters to enrolled female students later in the spring. It is hoped that enthusiasm, in addition to the usual efforts of department chairmen, coaches and staff, will promote further excellence at Union. philosophy professor Jan Ludwig asserted that within the conservative defintion is the implication that death exists when there is the irreversible loss of the capacity of the organism itself to integrate the organism as a whole. Therefore, the existence of any ''super-respirator\ would be precluded and the Harvard commission's con.servative view of death wauld not be flawed by this counter-example, according to Ludwig. \The Definition of Death\ was one of several talks sponsored by the philosophy department. Colloquiums discussing different topics will be held each Friday in May. Professor Thomas Tomlinson of Michigan State University examines the issue of hospita·ls declaring. patients dead. TAP Funding Explained By CARRIE CERRONE Staff The New York State·budget of $38 billion dollars for fiscal year 1985-1986 was passed on. April 5, 1985, without the proposed in- creases in Tuition Assistance Program (TAP), which is administered by the Higher Education Services Corporation (HESC). If the TAP parity and equity bills are not passed during the upcoming sup- plemental session of the assembly, which will resume on April 22, 1985, last year's assistance award levels will be maintained, but not increased. Currently, dependent student aid eligibility is contingent upon a family net income lower than the $29,000 maximum and emancipated students must have a net income of less than $5667. The maximum TAP grants awarded are $2200 for undergraduates, $600 for emancipated students, and $600 for graduate students. Accordin.g to Union Director of 'Financial Aid, Ellen Frishberg, Union received state funding of approximately $750,000 this year for TAP distribution among roughly 23 percent of the student body. If the recom- mended increases are not ac- cepted, alternate means of financing will need to be ex- plored by these students to compensate for rising tuition and inflation. {At risk are in- creases of $400 for dependent undergraduates, $900 for in- dependent undergraduates, and $2500 for graduate students. Income requirements will also be lessened by both bills. ) Union senior Steve Benson, chairman of the Independent Student Coalition (ISC), which represents private colleges and universities statewide, em- CoC 16 Select By JANICE GROSSMAN Staff Student Forum appoints students to several faculty and administrative committees. These committees consist of approximately three categories: student com- mittees, ·faculty committees and subcouncils, and liason committees. Sue Brand, Chairperson of the Committee on Committees, emphasizes that ''these committees-do have power.\ Students have a direct say in pertinent college issues. Student committees, which include such committees as film, \finance3 social, conduct, and concert, are student-run. Each committee is responsible for efficiently and effectively handling large budgets. Brand notes, \these committees can be used as very important in- struments in getting students to help better campus social life.'' Faculty committees include planning mtd priorities, academic affairs, student af- fairs, and research and grant. Academic computing is a newly formed subcommittee of academic affairs which makes decisions about the role of the computer on campus. Brand explains, \These ?committees are such a great opportunity for students. So few students are able to come in this close a contact with faculty and ad- ministration.\ Brand adds, \Students on committees will have a lot more to add their input into with all the renovations occurring on campus.'' Finally, liason committees, which include athletic liason and academic liason, allow students to keep abreast of the activities of various depart- ments of the College. Applications for these committees are available in the Student Affairs Office. They must be completed and returned by April 22. A student may apply to as many com- mittees as he or she wishes. However, a student may only be appointed to one committee. Chair positions require an in- terview which must be applied for when picking up the ap- plication. Previous involvement on a committee does not insure placement on that committee . again, nor does it necessarily increase the chance of becoming _ a chairperson. Rather, carefully thought out and ne-atly prepared ap- plications which show an ap- plicant's enth1.1Siasm and in- terest will be most carefully considered. Brand stresses the op- portunities these committee positions offer. \fi is so im- portant for students to be heard on campus. This is the chance for enthusiastic people to really beCOJile involved.'' News Writers Needed! Cal J• at 312-9597 or Maureen at 6860 phasized that students at Union need \to become more aware\ and realize that financial aid is not a \right\ although it may be considered essential for the preservation of quality education. The organization's two-fold purpose is first to be an alliance of student governments which discusses campus policies and second to be a group which conveys student interests to the state legislature. The coalition's main objective at this time is to encourage the passing of TAP parity and equity. Last year the first TAP parity bill was passed, allowing for a $200,000 increase, as part of a four-year proposal aimed at raising TAP awards to cover up to 60 percent of the average independent school's tuition as the program did in 1974. This year the greatest possible award constitutes 41.5 percent for dependent undergradUP+es, less that 28 percent for emahcipated undergraduates, and less than 8 percent for graduate students. All maximum grant recipients would be given equal awards upgraded to 47.7 percent of this year's average tuition of $6,500 if these bills were passed. This suggested in- crementation of TAP was presented in hopes of creating a balance between the in- dependent colleges and SUNY. This intent will be lost if the propositions are not approved. The · parity bill is directed at undergraduate aid increases to dependent students. The equity bill calls for an increase in aid to graduate and independent students. Adam Rossman, Union's representative to the ISC, is very concerned with facilitating the passage of these motions; therefore, he organized a lobby group of thirty Union students to demonstrate these interests to Albany assemblymen and senators. Rossman was rather surprised that these proposals not only did not pass, but were not even brought out onto the floor, although the lobbyists had secured co-sponsoring of the bills and had calculated a theoretical majority. It is thought that a miscom- munication between the senate and assembly caused the bills to remain in committee. Rossman feels confident about the equity portion passing since the legislature has expressed favor toward this proposition. On April 27, 1985, there will be a biannual general meeting of the ISC in Albany so that students will be able to communicate their positions to the state legislature. Steve Benson is vice chair- man of the COPUS (National Affiliation of Students of Independent Colleges and Universities) Research Foundation which will be lob- hying in Washington D.C. on April 19, 1985 to demonstrate Continued on page 4

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/18, 1985 Coeducation Discussed by Professor Fran Hoffman CIJ \0 0 .... 'I... ro :::> - V) By LINDA RAFFAELE Editor-in-Chief As a prelude to Women's Week here at Union, last Friday afternoon Dr. Fran Hoffman of Skidmore College gave a lee~ ture entitled \Co-education: Dr. Fran Hoffman of Skidmore College lectured at Union last Friday. She addresses topics surrounding coeducation. Dilemmas of Sex and Gender.'' Dr. Hoffman, who holds a Ph.D. in sociology and philosophy; has been collecting thoughts on this topic for the past ten years. She feels that the problems facing women at co-educational in- stitutions today are not easy ones to solve because many people still believe that women are not equal to men. These attitudes are deeply ingrained in our society. She said, \We have been trained to com- municate differently based on gender.\ As a result of this, Arts Dedication Made Continued from page 1 the SUmmer of 1983, Union finished its one-year deadline in raising the required $300,000 in order to receive the grant. Gifts were also received from the Schenectady Foundation as well as the M. Murray Peshkin Charitable Foundation. The gifts of these foundations, along with those of numerous friends of the College, provided for the majority of the $535,000 cost of the second phase. Although these renovations provide the arts department with strong assets, there is still work to be completed in order for the building to be a complete center for the arts. According to Professor of Art, Daniel Hob- bins, \Without the third phase, the music curriculum will never come into its own.\ This comment reflects the work which remains to be done on the third floor, which will be dedicated to music. This floor will contain new classrooms, a listening room, faculty offices, and space for independent cuaicles which will house pianos. A second component of the third phase is an improved slide lecture hall on the second floor. This room will be located in the same place as the existing one, only it will have tiers of benches for seating. Underneath the benches will .be the permanent home of the slide library. Both Robbins and Wilson feel that this room would be an im- portant addition to the depart· ment. The third phase will also include the conversion of the current \cat lab\ behind the main building into an exhibition gallery. While the Student Forum will continue to be reserved for student works, this new gallery will house the collections of outside artists. Currently, this annex contains music cubicles which hold pianos. At this time, the College has no definite plan to proceed with the third phase; a campaign for funds has not even been developed. Vice President for Finance and Administration, John Hauser, notes that this project is not a prioPity at this time. Both Hauser and Wilson realize the difficulties which would be encountered if the third phase were to be un· dertaken at the same time as the renovations to Carnegie Hall and Alumni Gym. Once these projects are finished, however, Wilson ex- pects that the College will resume its interest in restoring the Arts Building. He states that the completion of the second phase \proves that the College really does care about the arts. Committee Applications Due Monday, April 22 Turn in to Mrs. Marra's Office Undergraduate Psychology: Union to Host Conference Continued from page 1 conduct a three-minute question-answer session af· terwards. The committee is quite pleased that Dr. Henry Gleit- man, of the University of Pennsylvania, will be the guest speaker.\ Dr. Gleitman, Dr. Lipton noted, ''is one of the best psychology teachers in the country.\ Gleitman wrote the textbook, \Principles in Psychology\ which most in· troductory psychology courses have used this year. Gleitmen will speak on \Forget it! Some Principles of Remembering\ during his keynote address on Friday, April 19, 1985. Each participant this year will receive an information packet (somewhat similar to a freshman starter kit and certificates of merit for each paper. The committee will also distribute questionnaires and evaluations at the end of the confer·ence, hoping that this endeavor will help next year's .conference. All of their efforts, the committee believes, should enhance the spirit and success of the conference. Randie Bell, student convention manager, attests to the vigorous work the students have put into the conference. She states, \It's amazing how many little things needed to be done.'' Ill fact, the committee want so far as to prepare their own stationery, buttons, and t-shirts. Two weeks ago, through the combined efforts of state senator, Hugh Farley and Dr. Lipton, Governor Cuomo signed an $1850 line-item into · the state's budget for the specific use of funding this affair. Howie Podolsky, committee member, predicts that this conference will increase the College's prestige, in terms of both the psychology department and the school. Podolsky notes, \In years past this conference has been held at places like SUNY and Cornell; it's an accomplishment to get such a big turnout at a college our size.\ Some highlights of the weekend include the following. On Friday there will be a Psi Chi reception, a banquet, and Dr. Gleitman will speak at 8:30 p.m. in SS016. On Saturday, there will be paper .sessions, and the movie, \A Clockwork Orange\ with a discussion afterwards. On Sunday, Union psychology professors will be conducting workshops. Tickets will be sold at Car- negie Hall, Thursday, 10:.30 a.m.-1 p.m. and Friday, 4-6 p.m. The cost will be $20 with meals, and $5 without. T -shirts and buttons will also be sold ($6, $1, respectively). Anyone who would like to host one of the participants of the conference should contact Randie Bell at 6536. Since 1877 Serving the Union Community for 1 08 years btrnst~ You've been reading it . in Concordy \women receive an inferior education.'' Dr. Hoffman noted that the history of women in society can help us to understand the inequality of the sexes today. Up until this century, it was thought that women had smaller brains than men. An even more amusing miscon- ception is that if women used their brains too much, their reproductive systems would suffer. For these reasons, among others, women were excluded from higher education. All-male institutions were also afraid to admit women because of the fear that they would present a distraction to the men. It was felt ti!J.at they would cause a moral decline because they might mate with the male students. Regarding this fear, Dr. Hoffman com- mented, \They probably did; probably still do.\ On the other hand, some believed that the presence of women . would \tame the average beast\ in the men. Oberlin College in Oberlin, Ohio was the first all-male institution to admit women. But the curriculum for women differed greatly from that for men. Women were thought to be the moral guarcUans of society. Thus, they were taught how to socialize their children to be good, law-abiding citizens. The difference in sex roles was still quite apparent. Hoffman noted that \Women had a shortened literary class so they could go back and wash the male students' clothes.'' Institutions just for women, such as Skid- more College (founded in 1921), had the same type of curriculum. They provided education for women which would \train them for traditional women's work.'' This history of women as the lesser sex still influences the education of women today. Hoffman believes, \Even when the curriculum is not sex- segregated, the educational experiences of women differ from those of men.\ Research findings show that professors (both male and female) treat the sexes differently. They maintain eye contact with men more than with women. They also interrupt women more often. Finally, they tend to answer women's questions with a lesser degree of technicality that the question was asked. It could be said that they \talk down\ to women. Of course, this does not include all professors. The problem is that professors who do discriminate against women in these ways usually are not aware of their actions. It is a subconscious response. A study of sexual harassment among female graduate computer science students at MIT showed that there is also a lot of conscious discrimination against women. Hoffman cited · one example of a graduate student who was teaching a class to undergraduates. A male student missed class one day. He came up to her the following day and said, \Can I come .sit on your lap sometime so you can tell me what I missed?'' Hoffman said that isolated incidents like this one do net seem serious unti:l. they are all added up. \Their overall impact 'is to create a climate which is not conducive to the education of women,\ she said. Hoffman believes tnat the co- educational system has to be revised if women are to get an education equal to that of men. She proposes a three-step plan: 1) transform the cmTiculum, 2) diversify the faculty, and 3) create an environment on campus conducive to equality. The problems discussed by Dr. Hoffman are tough ones which cannot be easily solved mainly because they have to do with attitudes which are deeply imbedded in our social system. In response to a comment from a member of the audience as to the frustrating nature of these problems, Dr. Hoffman responded, \Yes they are frustrating,\ but underlying the solutions presented today is the \fundamental belief that people can change.\ Funding Explained ••• Continued from page 3 against Reagan's proposed budget cuts and \cap\ on finacial aid. Benson feels that a ceiling on financial aid payments will ultimately result in elitism among the in- dependent college sector and eliminate the college choice option among students who lack sufficient funds to finance a private college education. On May 13, 1985, Steve Benson will give testimony before a congressional subcommittee concerning student views on the federal level. As Congressman Mario Biaggi urged in the April 11, 1985, issue of Concordiensis, there needs to be a ''more aggressive-and more visible- (student) campaign to focus attention on this issue (of financial aid), if it is to be considered with seriousness of intent by legislators on both the state and federal levels. FILM PRESENTED BY AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL PRISONERS OF CONSCIENCE Tuesday, April 23, 1985 8 p.m. • 4th floor lounge Carnegie All Are Welcome Refreshments wi II be provided following the film Awarded Silver Hugo fQr best television documentary at 1980 Chicago International F.ilm Festival

>ment duate 1ts at also a 1ation cited duate ng a s. A s one r the Can I etime 1at I that s one they rerall mate o the ;aid. 1e co- to be et an men. plan: m, 2) ld 3) . on ity. ci by ones )Lved to do ~eply ;tern. from as to ;hese 'man are gthe s the ~ople ••• ' on hat a aid in- and a On a the rio 11, (of of CONCORDIEJVSIS, Apri/18, 1985 PageS Union Faces Renovations By FRED EISMAN Staff Hale House, Carnegie Hall and Alwnni Gym will all be closed for renovations by June of 1985. Hale House will reopen in· September of 1985. The new College Center, which will replace Carnegie liall, and the new gym will not be completed. until some time in 1987. Expected setbacks during this period of renovations will be the actual appearance .of the renovation sites, noise created by the renovation itself, and any problems caused by office relocation. However, College administrators expect that inconveniences will be minimal, · and efforts have been made to compensate for any necessary compromises in .facilities. While Hale House is closed, uppercla~men will be per- mitted to use their meal cards at the Dutch Hollow Pub. They may also eat at the Rathskeller and West College. To ac- commodate the . anticipated crowds at meal times, an ad~ ditional hour will be added to the normal eating hours. The offices in Carnegie Hall will be moved to Whitaker Hall, . above Old Chapel, beginning in the summer of 1985. Included are the offices of the Dean of Students, Residence Life, Food Service, Secretarial staff and Records. In addition, a mini College Center wiU be established in the Old Chapel. In_ 0 - 0 .c a_ this center will be the Student Activities office, Religious Programs office, Con- cordiensis, Idol, Garnet and WRUC. A pub-restaurant will also be set up in this center. Most significantly, the mail room will be moved from its present location to the basement of Richmond House. In explaining the choice of Richmond .for the mail room, Dean ~ammola acknowledged the inconvenience but said, \Richmond is the best available space requiring a reasonable, modest modification that also allows for the delivery and pick up of the mail.\ The entire Athletic Depart- ment will be moved from Aluinni Gym to the southern and western perimeter .of the field house, where partitions will be set up to create office space. The- equipment room, laundry room and weight room will also be moved from Alumni Gym to the field house. As a result of the renovation project, Union will have several new facilities. T)le new College Center will have a two-story book store, a central mail service facility, a pub- restaurant, a dining room and a theatre. In addition, it will house the student government offices, the student affairs of- fices, the student publications offices and a new suite of rooms for WRUC. The new gym will have a new pool, racquetball Construction workers lift up part of the Engineering Machine lab's root. This is just one ofthe many renovations on campus. Prisoners of Conscience film to be shown by .Amnesty International An important film entitLed Prisoners of Conscience will be shown in Union's Amnesty International on Tuesday evening, April 23 at 8:00 in the 4th floor lounge of Carnegie. This film illustrates the work of Amnesty International by tracing its endeavors to achieve the release of two political prisoners, a Russian and an Argentinian. The film shows Amnesty In· ternational's activities on the.ir behalf, beginning with the International Secretariat in London and continuing with the efforts of each prisoner's adoption group. The groups work on their own and with community and governmental -organizations. The stories are told by the Amnesty In· ternational.workers, the prisoners' relatives, those who were imprisoned with them, and through the prisohers' own let~ ters. This film was awarded the Silver Hugo award .for best television documentary at the 1980 Chicago International Film Festival. This film should prove to be very interesting and in· formative. Learn more about Amnesty International. See how the gro.up fotwhich you sign postcards and letters really works at helping those who are victims of human rights abuses. Be aware of wha.t is gOing on in the world around you. See you there Tuesday at 8:00 p.m. Refreshments served following the film. All are welcome. and squash courts, new athletic offices,. a new weight room and new locker room facilities. Dean Mammola shed a positive light on the impending years of construction when he said, \All of us realize that there will be a degree of inconvenience for everyone in .~ the next two years, but we are E all determined to be as creative ~ and imaginative as we can be in Ill dealing with the in.. ~ convenience.\ Further, he, ~ along with the rest of the ad- >- ministration, hopes that the .g anticipation and excitement o surrounding the new buildings 't. will help to overcome the in- This building will be the new Engineering Machine Lab. conveniences. ·Renovations have continued through both the sun c;~nd the snow. Fraternity Hazes Pledge Continued from page 1 welfare of any person at the College sponsored activities is expres~ly prohibited.\ The College and the Greek houses must protect themselves. \Insurance won't cover it,\ according to Dean Massa. The kidnapping incident, seemingly a harmless prank, presented a potential situation for an ac- cident, and the student was affected academically. ''I understand the ad- ministration's point of view,\ said John Knowles, President of Theta Delta Chi. \I'm liable too if something happens.\ As Dean Massa says, \There doesn't have to be an accident for it to be considered hazing.\ The Office of the Dean of Students and the officers of Theta Delta Chi have taken advantage of this episode as an opportunity to try to change thehazing-:related~ activities which many houses practice. When placed on probation, Theta Delta Chi was told that if it presented a plan which would function to alert the Greek system at Union about hazing, its ramifications and alternatives, then the College would consider allowing their pledge activities to resume. According to Dean Massa, \They have submitted an excellent plan.\ The plan consists of three parts which aim to educate the Greek system and inspire changes. The first part is a mandatory meeting for the officers of each house to be held no later than mid-May. It would feature speakers such as Eileen Stevens, Charles Corletta, attorney, and possibly a psychologist. The purpose would be educational. The second part of the plan involves tlle submission . of . a \position paper\ written by the members of Theta Delta Chi for possible publication. \This paper will include insights and the realizations resulting from a regretted incident. Suggestions of alternatives to outdated h~ing rituals will also be in- cluded.\ The last part of TDChi's plan is a mandatory informal meeting of the Greek house officers and the administration in order to discuss hazing and related issues. \It is important that the Greek system recognize that the College must take a strong stance on this problem, because activities which are threatening can get out of control,\ said Dean Massa. This year there have been three hazing-related deaths nation-wide. Hazing is not a problem limited to Union's campus. \It is a national problem. It's going to be hard to change the system,\ said John Knowles. Symposium Held . . . Chemistry Student's Speak By DAVID BRUCKMAN Staff On Saturday, April13, Union invited professors and students from institutions around the Northeast to speak on un- dergraduate .chemistry research topics. President of the Union chemistry club, Patrick Igoe, was integral in coordinating the symposium, assisted by chemistry professor Leslie Hull. Five Union un- dergraduates spoke about their research at Union. Other students from Syracuse, Colgate, Russel Sage, Hart- wick, SUNY at Albany, Geneseo, Potsdam, Hamilton, and RPI also gave presen- tations. The only professor who spoke, Dr. Rudolf Seitz of the depart- ' ment of chemistry at New Hampshire, discussed his research on \Chemical Sensors Based . on Fiber Optics.\ Students were able to gain in- valuable experience by presenting their research, and Union also benefits, since such programs increase Union's exposure in the realm of chemistry. Union was able to sponsor the symposium through aid from the DuPont Corporation, the Eastern New York section of the American Chemical Society, and the Internal Education Foundation of Union College. Psychology Conference Agenda . ; . #18: Miscellaneous-8S012 Friday,Aprll19,1985 •10:30-11:20 a.m.-Paper Session •4:25-5·15pm-Break • 4-6p.m . ..:.Reg~trati?n-8trau:ss #7: Applied-88117 . • 5:15~:45 ·p.;...-\A Clockwork • 4-6 p.nrr.-Pst Chi recept10n- • 10:~0..11.:20 a.m.-Paper Session Orange\-8S016 Strauss . 118: Mottvation-8S113 . • 6:45-7:15 p.m.-Film Discussion • 4-6 p.m.-Check mto rooms- • 10:30-11:20 a.m.-Paper SessiOn Group#l: Dr. TinDowling-88115 Strauss . . 119: AbnormaVDevelopmental- • 6:45-7:15 p.m.-Film Discussion •4-6:45p.m.-Cashbar-Pub 88112 Group 112:-Dr. Donald Spring- • 7..8:15 p.m.-Banquet-Old 11:20-11:30a.m.-Break 88117 Chapel 11:30-1 p.m.-Lunch-:-OldChapel •7:15-7:30p.m.-Break • 8:30-9:30 p.m.-K~ynote \1:10-2:25. p.m.-~orkshop: •7:30-9p.m.-Dinner,OldChapel ~peaker: Dr. Henry . G~ettman Careers m Psychology Career •9-9:30p.m.-Break Forget I~! Some Prmc1ples of DevelopmentCenter-8trauss •9:30-?-Party-PhiDelta Remembermg\-88016 • 1:10-2:25 p.m.-Workshop . • 9:30-?-Party, entertainment- \Psychological Treatment of Sunday,April21,1985 . Pub Terminally Ill Patients\ Dr. Rudy • 1 0-11 . a .. m.-Contmental Nydegger-Banauet Room. Breakfast-so~?! Sc1ence Loun~e . Saturday, April20, 1985 • 8:3D-9:25 a.m.-Continental breakfast-Social Science Lounge 8:30-9':25 a.m.-Faculty steering committee-88110 • 9:30-10:20 a.m.-Paper Session #1: Social Psychology-88115 • 9:30-10:20 a.m.-Paper .Session #2: Physiological Psychology-88117 • 9:30-10:20 a.m.-Paper Session #3:menrrory~113 • 9:30-10:20 a.m.-Paper Session #4: Personality/Creativity • 9:30-10:20 a.m.-Paper Session #5: Sex Roles-8S012 •10:20-10:30a.m.-Break • 10:30-11:20 a.m.-Paper Session 116: Perception-88115 • :2:25-2:35 p.m. -break • 11-12 P·~·- Graduate Studies m • 2:35-3:25 p.m.-Paper Session Psychology Workshop-Strauss 1110: Sociai.....SS115 Lounge • 2:3{)-3:25 p.nrr.-Paper Session •1 2 - 12 : 3 0 P:m.-Br.eak 1111: Hwnanistic-8Sl17 \ • 12.30-1.30 p.m.-Works~o~; • 2:35-3:25 p.m.-Paper Session Assessment o~ Group Interaction #12: Cognition-88113 Prof. TomRywiCk-8trauss • 2:35-3:25 p.m.-Paper Session \• 12:30-1:30 p.m..-~o~kshop: #13: Emotion-SS112 Psychology . of Creativity Prof. • 3: 25-3: 35 p.m. ·Break Frank Calabr1a-Ba~~uet Ro?m #14: Motivation-88115 •12,:,30-1:30 p.m .. - Explormg Sex .. 3:35-4:2{) p.m.-Paper Session Roles Prof. Suzte Benack-Conf. #15: Industrial-88117 Rm. A . • 3:35-4:25 p.m.-Paper Session • 12:30-1:30 p.~.-\The Ama~m~ #16: Theoretical-8S11 3 World of SensatiOn & PerceptiOn o 3:35-4:25 p.m.-Paper Session Prof. Hugh Foley-Stage II . #17: Cognitive-SS112 • 1:30-2:30 p.m.-Student meetmg- • 3:35-4:25 p.nrr.-Paper Session .Strauss Lounge

Page6 COLLEGE MAINTENANCE CO. \We Fix Anything\ •lawn Clean-up • Painting • ~ • Carpentery • Landscaping ' • Small Appliance Repairs • Plumbing • Willlk!aw Glozing No Job Too Small · ~ FREE ESTIMATES Reasonable Senior Engineering Stud.ents CALL MIKE 382-9688 JOHN 382·9159 CONCORDIENSIS, Ap#/18, 1985 The Silent Scream Controversial film depicts a first trimester abortion on real-time ultrasound-- from the victim's point of view! Question and answer period will follow. Wed., April 24, 7:30-8:30 p.m., HUl14 Sponsored by the Union College Pro-Life Forum I.E.F ./Faculty Research Announce Deadline .. The Subcouncil on Research anGI Grants is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applicants should specify if funds will not be needed until after July 1. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Kaplan's office (SlOO) Science & Engineering Center. The application deadline is Friday, April 26, 1985. This deadline aJso pe.rtains to proposals for the Internal Education Foun- dation O.E.F.) fund--these proposals in one of two categories, student- initiated research projects and ''educationally innovative projects\. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. HolocaUst Remembrance Day YOMHA'SHOA TODAY Thursday, Aprill8 Jewish Student Union Presents: -Rabbi Sf/ton -Slide presentation of Holocaust Art :-Memoria/Service Tonight in Strauss Lounge at 7:30p.m. Waitresses /Waiters ·interested in working at Dutchman's Night: Organizational Meeting Monday, April 22 · at 7:00p.m. in the Pub Any questions, call Betsy at 377 so 1045 Master the art of teaching in just15 months. The Master of Arts in Teaching IMAT) program at FDU's Teaneck-Hackensack Campus qualifies bachelor of arts and science degree graduates to teach- earning a top· dollar entry salary- in 15 months of study. New Jersey and the metropolitan area have shortages of teachers. FDU's intensive program will increase your marketability while allowing you to enjoy full-time paid teaching internships, receive training in microcomputer and instructional technology, and begin the program with- out prior courses in education. Master teaching theories and strategies in your choice of: • English • English as a Second Language • Multilingual Studies • Mathematics • Science • Bilingual Education, and • Social Studies. For more information, call Mrs. Nuziale at (201) 692-2839. FDU FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY An affirmative action/ equal opportunity institution Or write us at Room 228, Bancroft Ball, Teanec:k·Bac:kensack Campus, Teaneck, JI.J. 07666

of with- e of: ~al and I Winter in Mexico By MARGARET BOITANO Associate Features Editor world country. Although ex- tremely challenging at times, the students all expressed a greater cultural awareness and heightened objectivity due to this enriching experience. The students this year also came from a wide variety of backgrounds which contributed both inside and out of the classroom .. By living with a middle class family, reading the newspapers, and watching 'l'.V., they all gained better language skills regardless of their varying levels of ability at the onset. CONCORDIENSIS, Apl'i/18, 1985 .. P~ge7 FEATURES . . ' ~~,.,- ,. .'• .. \\ ~- ~ .~ .... '+ \' ' _,. ~ ~ .. : ... *\ ·-~~\ .. 41 . k ,{ . l ' ' Why not brighten up the prospects of another cold dreary Winter at Union College with a term abroad in sunny Mexico? Recently, the first excursion to Mexico has returned complete with in- famous stories and exquisite pictures that speak for them- selves. Cuernavaca, Mexico, affectionately known as \the city of eternal spring\ a famous resort, · is the site of' this challenging adventure. Professor Byron Nichols, the enthusiastic faculty advisor for the trip, not only taught a valuable political science course but also organized several weekend outings to neighboring villages like San Anyone interested in this new program may feel free to contact either Professor Nichols for the latest in- formation of the Tertns Abroad Office for .specific details. Not only is this a financially im- pressive opportunity with regard to the relatively inex- pensive prices in Mexico, but it is also a great chance for one to gain a deeper understanding of Mexican culture · in a sur- prisingly warm climate. Students on term abroad in Mexico enjoy a day in the sun. Muguel Allende and Guanajuato. The only Grinch Takes Spring prerequisite: Spanish 10. Mexico is a wise choice for any student interested in ex- periencing the intriguing aspects ·of a developing third By JIM MANLY Spring term: the very mention of it brings on thoughts Senior Physicists Meet By LLOYD MALINER This Saturday the physics department in conjunction with the Society of Physics Students sent four seniors to Rochester to present their senior research projects at the 5th Annual Physics Symposium. This is an annual event sponsored by the National SPS organization held at the University of Rochester in which Physics students from all around the Northeast present any interesting research they have conducted. From Union there were Don Jacobs and his Monte Carlo Simulation of Multistate Per- colation, Mary Holt and Yashar Ozberkman and their Time- Dependance of a Diffusion- Limited Reversible Reaction, and Deborah Levine and Hall Effect Measurements of Thin Films. In comparison to the type of research and quality of presentation seen this weekend, the Union projects were definitely among the better jobs done. Though both John and Mary were the first two to present their projects and at- tendance was not very high, they both made their topics quite clear and even un- derstandable--which is always hard to do with Physics. Of course Deborah did her subject justice leaving only one question in. my mind-why do you make brackets? It should be noted that this seminar of- fered a prime opportunity for students to share with others their work and results while also finding out what their peers were interested in and where physics was going today. Many of the projects were quite in- novative and possibly with real consequences on modern theories. Don demonstrated a different method of evaluating lattice structures. He backed up his theoretical calculations with computer simulations to show that he does indeed get \good numbers\ with his method. Mary and Yashar's work demonstrated that a past standard in the world of semiconductor physics is wrong. They proceeded to give a better model of oxygen con- tamination in silicon which has direct applications to that major industry of today- semiconductor development. Deborah demonstrated how practical, or impractical, ex- perimental studies of the Hall Effect is with the minimum of equipment. She found that though not everything works perfectly one can produce surprsingly precise results with old methods. It is quite exciting to see your peers making such revealing innovations in their field. Summer Jobs! Summer Jobs! Summer Jobs! Union College;s Academic Opportunity Program (AOP) needs 3 ·peer tutor counselors for its 1985 summer program. WHEN: June 21 to August 1'1 WHEREi Union College RES PONS I Bl LIT I ES: • Attend Summer Program Orientation sesion • Tutor in assigned subject area ... ~ • Provide personal, social and academic counseling • assist students with orientation .to Union • Assist the residence staff • Participate in all required staff meetings • Submit weekly reports and final evaluations • Assist in compilation of student and tutor counselor final evaluations • Make counseling referrals to appropriate personnel • Participate in social, cultural, and recreational a.ctivities • Perform other duties as assigned by the Director, Assistant Director and Summer Program Staff QUALIFICATIONS: • u pperclass person or graduate as of June 1985 • Capable of tutoring in one of the following areas: -Chemistry -English/Study Skills -Math (Precalculus & Basic Math) • Minimum 2.0 cumulative index Minimum 3.0 in subject area you will tutor Applications now available and interviews bein·g arranged in the AOP Of- fice, Bailey Hall. . For more information contact Wanda Torres at 370-6115. Applicati.on Deadli·ne' April22, 1985 of sunburns and extended periods of unconsciousness. Yet to a group of lofty ad- minstrators it is a nightmare, one they are prepared to rectify at any cost to the college and the student. For they hope to create an environment of work in the midst of sun and warmth. This condition is desired from students who have just spent ten weeks of pure arctic hell in the gale wind capital of the world, Schenectady, N.Y. These ad- ministrators actually felt at one time that it was possible for a student to ignore pleasures of the flesh in order to expand his mental horizons. Yet the strength of a student to be able to utter those famous five words, \Ah I'll blow it off,\ is remarkable. Besides, \I can always study after a few beers in the sun.\ The situation, however, finally became epidemic and those evil, dark-suited men in their air-conditioned offices finally acted. These actions were so very powerful: to not only deny the student of Srping, but the knowledge of its existence. Unfortunately for the students' sake, these men have done some remarkable work in this respect. · The administration, in one of their most devious ploys, took it on themselves to destroy spring. For during our .so-called spring break they gathered a group of unsuspecting engineers to create the world's largest frozen vacuum around the campus. This accomplished, the administrators felt safe huddled around their heaters, and patiently waited for our return. They were not disap- pointed, for students · were welcomed to sub-arctic con- ditions upon arrival. This cold raged on for another two weeks to which the administration basked in their success . Yet there was an ethic in these students that no one had ever perceived. A remem- brance of times gone by when shorts were worn without snow boots. These crazed individuals braved these sub-arctic con- ditions in the hope for spring. Yet the effect was disastrous for the students. In sum, thousands of gallons of beer frozen solid, frostbitten young students stuck to metal lawn chairs, broken fingers (the result of lead weighted frozen softballs and frisbees) and a perception of lost hope. The men in their dark suits revelled in their glory; they felt victory at hand. But all was not well; the school received its first elec- trical bill since the freezer installation. The amount has never been determined but it was high enough that even our tuition couldn't cover it (which is remarkable in itself). The administration froze: what could possibly be done to stop these sun-starved maniacs? Their fir·st response was a senseless pattern of absurd rules aimed at ending any social, or for that matter, anti- social activities. From rules banning music to a concealed attempt to build a dome for the football field extending over all of the Capital District area. This is where the true grit of Union students really shone through. All the efforts of the administration fell to failure. These foiled attempts only resulted in one thing, a greater determination of students to remain apathetic, a truly ad- mirable quality. The sight of students lazing about in the sun is one that renews hope in the American way. This episode of triumph. is one that cannot help but remind me of a quote from one of America's greatest authors, Dr. Seuss. In his lesser known sequel \The Grinch that Stole Spring/' he states (or close to it) \It wasn't sun, OP wear, frisbee or beer. It wasn't sand, warmth, tans or cheer. No, it was none of these at all. In fact, it was a desire to do nothing at all.\ And so it is rumored that the ad- rniilistration's heart shrunk two sizes that day! So let us all beware of what they have in store for us next; until then, enjoy the warmth while it lasts . The . Mechan,ical Engineering Department is conducting a third- year review of Visiting Professor Andrew Burke. Members of the College community who wish to provide information for this eva'luation should send comments to the Department Committee in care of Professor William Aubrey.

PageS CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/18, 1985 FEATURES. The Fury .of Spring I... <ll .c :::1 1... <!) \0 > Cll c > .c 0 +- 0 .!: 0. By DANBURY Contributor The bloated \creek that reeks\ bubbles a putrid purple- brown with April's heavy rainfall, which also screws up intramurals, varsity baseball, and many an outdoor party or tanning session. The beginning of the Spring tri, which for all intents and purposes is the second week, is a lovely time of year with the winter chill slowly receding into warm sunlit evenings and the college maintenance crew performing plastic surgery on the campus for parents weekend. Freshmen Will invariably notice a The 1 dol looks out for the first sign of Spring. Horror of Live Music By JOY RUNYON Staff When they put the new out- door-music policy into effect, I knew they meant business. Just how serious they were did not strike me until yesterday. It was a beautiful day, so I brought my cassette Walkman outside and sat underneath a tree, catching up on my reading and listening to Pink Floyd. A mean-looking shadow fell upon me, blocking my sunlight. I looked up and saw a security cadaver standing over me, shinng his big, bad flashlight in my eyes. \Okay young lady, just what do you think you're doing?\ he asked of me. He sensed my bewilderment and continued, \You know we don't go for none of tharock-n-roll crap on this campus. Besides, you know there's a policy banning outdoor live music.\ \This isn't live,\ I countered. \Don't get wise, or I'll have to fine you for insu ... insu ... \ \Insubordination?\ I helped him. \Yeah I'll have to fine you for that. Anyway ... you're live, aren't you?\ he snarled. \Well ... yeah, but-\ \Then this is live music! I'm gonna have to fine you five hundred dollars for live outdoor music and I'll have to con- fL. .confi ... \ \Confiscate?\ \Yeah I'm gonna have to do that to your radio.'' He took the tape out, handcuffed it to his wrist, and hobbled off to his car (where his partner had his gun trained on me) with my cassette player. \And another hundred- dollar fine for reading a dirty book! \ he screeched out the window as the car sped away. I looked down at my Freud textbook and shook my head. Once inside the dorm, I called Presmo's office. The secretary asked me what I was calling in reference to, so I related my scary encounter to her. «Hold on,\ she stalled. \Let me see if President Morris is in now.\ She returned ten minutes later telling me, \I'm sorry, he's in, but has no comment. Uh, try Dean .Mammola's of- fice.\ I dialed Dean Marrunola's office. As he was out, I was connected to Assistant Dean Massa. Again, I told my story, but received no sympathy: \Look we're part of Schenec- tady. We have to be considerate of our neighbors.\ \I made a comment about 'our neighbors',\ to which he replied, \I don't care what you think. This is a college, an in- stitution of higher learning. You're not here to turn your brain to mush with all that rock- n-roll nonsense.\ He grew more frantic and his voice shot up an octave. 'This is NOT Wood~ stock! It's not, it's not, it's not! ! ! \ I could hear him jumping up and down on his desk. I was getting a royal runaround. I asked him when Dean Mammola would be in his office. \It doesn't matter when he'll be in. I'm in charge now! Why don't you go read a book or something? Go learn something, dammit!\ The jumping continued. I quickly hung up, afraid that he would injure himself and I would get fined for it. Pondering my situation, I decided my only alternative was to go stand outside Mammola's office and catch him as he was returning. It was a full hour before he came trotting up the stairs. Wherever he had been, his secretary must have alerted him to the fact that I was looking for him and that I was angry, because he turned around and tried to look like someone else when he saw me. He couldn't fool me, though, as he walked past me with someone else's look on his face. \Hey Dean Mammola!\ I shouted after him. He refused to acknowledge me. I walked up behind him and tapped him on the shoulder .. \Hey I know it's you!\ He turned with a sheepish grin and said, \Oh hello. I didn't see you. May I help you?\ We went to his office and I explained the day's events. \What can I say? Secruity has already notified me of the situation. Sounds like you were playing those headphones awfully loud. You know there's a ban on live outdoor music. You were blatantly breaking The Law.\ With that, he slipped into a trance and began chanting, \Don't disturb the Ooids, don't disturb the Ooids, don't disturb the Ooids.\ Realizing the futility, I exited, leaving him to his incantation. He obviously wasn't going to security station was in the supply room doing toilet paper inventory. I approached him cautiously and told my story once again. He offered to repossess my Walkrnan and tape for me. That night, I met my friend outside the security station at midnight. He handed me my possessions and told me,\ You should see the load of con- traband in there! They have all sorts of tapes and stereos ... even guitars and keyboards. I can't believe those turkeys! This is sick! \ He melted into the shadows before I could say Thank You. After he was gone, my curiosity got the best of me and I walked around the building looking through windows to see if I could find this wondrous room crammed with ''con- traband.\ I saw exactly what my friend meant when I looked through a window and beheld hundreds of Technics, Akai, Sony, Panasonic, and Bang & Olufsen stereos piled haphazardly in a room. There were also the guitars and keyboards and drums-enough for a Band Aid-USA for Africa combined world tour. Bll:t there was something even scarier, the likes I'd never seen. In one corner, there were glass cases enclosing members of various bands. They looked like zombies, encased in those little glass cubbyholes with for- maldehyde, staring out blankly and motionlessly. If there's one thing our security department can do, it's preserve the bodies of musicians who have dared to play outdoor music on campus - amplified, no less! I had seen enough. So let this be a lesson to all you venturesome rebels who dare to play your rock-n-roll louder than ten decibels. You people are sick, you're crazy and security knows who . you are. They're watching you, and they will incarcerate your mind. Beware of \live\ .outdoor music, you bad little boys and girls. The Big Guys are wat- ching you, controlling you - NO FUN ALLOWED!!! Did you go on a Winter Term Abroad? The 1985 Yearbook ' Needs your pictures from Greece I Israel I Greece Please bring your pictures to Yearbook Meeting Tonight at 7:30 p.m. In the Yearbook Office profusion of woodchips, flower beds, new trees, and gu~rd rails where none had previously existed (at least, not since Homecoming) which often disappear lest they be destroyed. The two most noticeable aspects about Spring at Union is that the campus does look very pretty, and that our Spring extends halfway through the summer. The fact that I am in school for eternity negates much from the aesthetics of the former aspect. One of Spring's most frustrating events, guaranteed to make you feel like-, is calling up a friend on a head. · The maintenance man for the talk long becuase his last final is tomorrow. ·Since we are going to be here for the next nine weeks, we might as well make the best of them. Drinking is often referred to as a social lubricant, a way to ease the pressures of academia. What the aforementioned ar- ticles don't tell you is that the people who stipulate these claims are the heavy college drinkers who will also tell you that there is no such thing as a college alcoholic. The amount of alcohol consumed is greater in the spring than in the winter. You just don't hear people say that its too hot to go to the skellar. Beers~ Gin and Tonics, and the like, go down so much easier when you're hanging out in the sun. Perhaps the. best way to ease the pain af a two-hour afternoon class in the win- dowless basement of the Social Sciences building on a 90-degree day is to down a couple of beers during ltmch. The large number of outdoor parties and barbecues, while aiding in the battle against a healthy liver, .are still en- joyable. Barbecues, reminiscent of home during the summer, are a great social and gastronomical diversion. Even West's hamburgers would taste good charcoal broiled in Jackson's Gardens. The best barbecued food, as agreed upon in many major texts (including the Tabnud ~nd Koran), is chicken wings, which can be easily cooked on a hibachi. Sweet wings are smeared with an apricot sauce before. during, and Cifter cooking. Spicy wings are marinated in a tabasco and vinegar base with hot· pepper and-or taco sauce added ac- cording to taste. A refreshing new drink that will go well with the above is comprised of 1 1 /z oz. vodka, 1 oz. amaretto, and 4 oz. cream soda poureQ-, over ice. The soda cim be replaced with 1 oz. pineapple juice and 3 oz. club soda. The two most vital things to avoid are falling too far behind before the nice weather comes, and putting on baby oil the first really hot day. THE WRITING CENTER invites applications tor employment as Writing Tutors beginning in Sep- tember 1985. Tutors must be good writers who can work patiently and reliably with other writers. Ex- perience is not necessary; training and orientation sessions will be arranged .. Applications are due by Wednesday, May 1. They may be obtained from Professor Nelson in Humanities 210 (ext. 6207).

- • I :tway 1-hour win- Social Iegree beers 1tdoor while lnst a l en· u es, 1g the :tl and Even , taste d in best I upon luding 1), is m be bachi. l with uring, wings !O and >epper d ac- ~shing 1 with llh oz. i 4 oz. r ice. with 1 3 oz. 1gs to 1ehind ornes, e first • CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/18, 1985 Page9 [GET iN VOL VEDJCommitteeapplicatlons aVailable now I} TIIHEE ROK. ' A CMJPUSES... 1·. · · · TOTAL SUIVIf:K ~XP~KrnNCE L.I.U. • C. W. POST ••• (516)299·2431 • Over 1200 undergraduate and graduate courses • Flexi~le schedules - Days, Evenings and Weekends • Convenient location -less than 25 miles from Manhattan, near beaches. • Breathtakingly beautiful 400-acre campus • residence halls, restaurants, theatres, sports facilities. ti.U .... BRENTWOOD (516)273-5112 • A wide range of undergraduate and graduate programs. • Convenient to Nassau and Suffolk residents EveryTI calculator comes with one extra number. 1-800-TI-CARES When you buy a Texas Instruments calculator you don't just buy a calculator, you buy Texas Instruments' com- mitment to quality. Its a commitment backed by a fully developed service network that includes the above toll- free number you can call from anyplace in the United States. If you have any applications, operations, or service questions, call us Monday thru Friday between 9 am and 4 pm CST, and we'll be glad to help. If your calculator needs repairing, we'll direct you to one of our 46 conveniently located service centers for an immediate exchange. Under warranty, its free. If there's no center near you, we'll do it all by mail. Of course, theres just one catch. It has to be a Texas Instruments calculator. But then, if you're as.smart as we think you are, why wouldn't it be? TEVS. INSTRUMENTS Creating useful products ami services fpr you. Move Yourself, All Your Stuff, And Save, Too! Ifs as easy as renting a Ryder truck, one way. Compare costs before you make plans for moving at the end of the semester. If you're 18 or older and have a valid driver's license. you can use a Ryder truck. rent·it·here. leave-it-there. Load up your stereo,lO-s.peed. clothes; everything. You'll still have room. no doubt. for one or two friends with their things to share the cost. Compare that to the price of a plane ticket. Or even a bus. Plus shipping. Rent a newer truck from the best-maintained, most dependa· ble fleet in the world- Ryder, The best truck money can rent. WE'LL BE ON CAMPUS to show you how easy it is to move yourself RIGHT. We'll gladly quote you rates and answer your questions. Come see us. ltl RYDER TRUCK RENTAL RYDER 260 Burdeck St. Schenectady, NY 12306 (518) 355-2981 Union College Concert Committee Presents The dB's The Lyres The Reducers Thursday, April 25 8:00p.m. • Alumni Gym Student Tickets Only $4

Page 10 <llllnrorbtrnsis FolmfkJ al Umon Co/leg~ 1877 ------------ --~--~-~- Halt Hazing Everyone has heard about fraternity hazing on other campuses. But no one expects it to happen at their own school. The recent decision of the ad- ministration to place Theta Delta Chi on social probation for hazing makes us all realize that the problem is closer to home than we would like to think. Although th~ incident which took place was seemingly harmless, hazing is still a serious problem. The ad- ministration is to be commended for their swift at- tention to and action in this matter. By using the in- cident to attempt to change the hazing-related ac- tivities of other houses on campus, it has kept the incident in proportion and moved to reduce the oc- currence of future hazing incidents. In accordance with the administration's decision, Theta Delta Chi has presented a plan which aims to \educate the Greek system\ on campus and \in- spire\ changes. It is time for outdated hazing rituals to be replaced. There are plenty of other ways to initiate future members of a fraternal organization. The Delta Chi-designed plan will suggest some of these other options. Hazing is all done in good fun- until someone is hurt. Let's put a haltto hazing before we see its possibly tragic consequences. Union's Face lift To renovate means to make sound again, to clean up or replace worn parts. This clear-cut definition provides good reasoning behind all the current renovations on our campus: we want our school to look nice. However, in order to replace these \worn parts\ most members of the community will inevitably suffer some inconvenience. Unfortunately, as it stands, those who will do the suffering will not directly reap the benefits of Union's facelift. All this construction on campus can, at least, be called \annoying.\ It's no~ pretty to look at nor is it soothing to listen to. And the worst is yet to come. That dreaded day shall arrive when no one will be allowed to enter Carnegie Hall. Where will students get mail, drink coffee in the morning, see the Dean of Students, go to aerobics class? Yes, all this is going to be painfully disruptive. To ease the pain and discomfort, these renovations must be loo}\ed at with a positive light. Union is our school, a place where most students have invested not only a great deal of money but also a great deal of time and energy. Students are here because of their belief in formal education. The in- stitution of education is a seemingly \natural\ part of our lives and others, for years to come, will also have these values instilled in them. Union is a unique place and must be kept that way even after the present student body has moved on. Although current students will not enjoy the improvements directly, future students will be here to enjoy them. It is necessary for the College to upgrade its facilities in order to attract the \best of the future students, thereby insuring that Union's tradition of excellence will continue. Students should be optimistic about the changes which are occurring. Our Alma Mater (to be) will soon have a new look about it. To renovate also means to refresh. Anything bothering you? Make yourself heard! Write a letter to the editor! All letters to the editor and sub- must be typed mitted by 5:00 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed, but names will be withheld upon request. CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/18, 1985 . ' LETTERS ----------------------------------- Forum Does Not Support P()licy . There has been a great deal of outrage in the last week over the new outdoor music policy which prohibits live bands on campus except for Camp Union and Fitzhugh Ludlow day. We on the Student Forwn do not support this policy and are working to come 11P with an alternative policy. We believe that essential to a viable resolutionofthe issue is a recognition by everyone in- volved that: 1) legitimate concerns have been raised by the administration over the spring -bands of the past and; 2) that a solution can be found that does not involve the annihilation of a Union tradition. · The Student Forum firmly believes that if both sides can work together With-open minds w~ will arrive at a policy that will make everyone's spring tenn enjoyable. The Student Forum ~~ __ S_o_roritiffi Also Upset To the Editor, As social chairmen of the three sororities, we are naturally very upset about the new no-outdoor-bands party policy. In the past we have tried to comply with the directives of the administration. Honestly, this policy does not directly affect our houses; however, it does affect the campus com- munity as a whole. We would like to discuss alternatives with one or more of the ad- ministration. Is this policy carved in stone? Are there no choices? . Sincerely, Social Chairmen of DDD, DG and SDT God Should be Censored ~~~~-------------- To the Editor, I am not a religious zealot, or even an overly religious person. I am writing with regard to Nevertheless, it seems that, as Mountebanks Spring term Americans, one of eur production of God, a play by \inalienable rights\ as Woody Allen. I have read the guaranteed by our Constitution, play and have also seen it should be to hold an individual, performed on Broadway in New uniqpe and private view of God York City. I use these two ex- and/ or ~--his-her-its existence periences as justification for thereof. Woody Allen's play my following statements. The simply does not allow this. In play should not be performed at this sense, the play, as a work the college .. Furthermore, if it is unto itself, could be called performed, I personally will Wlconstitutional. _ organize a student and faculty · In addition, God treats sex as group to oppose, and stop, its it it were a comic book-bought production. The play is simply and sold in a drugstore and not suitable for our comrmmity. simply discarded when G.I. Joe It raises questions and issues has saved the day. Don't get me that no playright, let ·alone a wrong. I am not a member of group of 18-22 year olds, should the Moral Majority (or any like raise. The cast, director and organization) and I realize that production crew are simply the so-called Sexual Revolution inexperienced and/or unaware ofthe 1970's has probably grown of the consequences of opening (contrary to the opinion of a \Pandora's Box,\ if you will, TIME magazine, spring 1984) onto the Union College com- since its inception. Still, the way mwlity. that Mr. Allen, the Union --~----------------~ student cast and director et. al. treat the issue (or issues) is simply inappropriate. They bring the maxim \If you can't say it, you can't do it.\ to its unbelievable, uncomical and unfulfilling l:1eight. One final note. I look upon the artistic medhun as a whole in a favorable light in its role as an interpretational device for important issues of our time. The epic and beautiful un- dertaking of almost 40 American musicians in the recently released (No. 1 on American Top 40 on the date of this writing) \We Are The World\ best captures my feelings. However, when theatrical works like God are produced, directedand acted by Union College students my belief in the integrity of this medium is severely diminished. Joel Musicant Class of 1985 Unauthorized Room Inspections To the Editor, It has recently come to my attention that an illegal and unethical action was per- petrated oyer the recent spring vacation. I am referring to the unannounced and unauthorized room inspections conducted by Security. It seems as if Security found it necessary to conduct room inspections; unfortunately they never bothered to receive the proper consent from the Residence Life Office nor in- form the students that an in- spection would take place. I would like to inform this group of self-appointed guar- dians of student safety that in our country we have a com- pendium of law entitled the Bill of Rights. Contained in this body of law is the ·Fourth Amendment, and this protects individuals from Wlreasonable search and seizures. Unfor- , tunately, I do not believe Security know this existed. Be that as it may, this coWl try was not built on the concept of a police state where the govern- ment is characterized by an arbitrary e:!Cercise of police power. The administration and letters to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis student body must make it fully aware to these employees that this sort of high-handed and reproachable behavior will not be tolerated. However, never let it be said that I never offer constructive criticism. I would like to recommend to Security that Associate Features Editor CoBUl:lentary Page Editors Arts Editors Catr:tpUSPage Editoc5 · Sports Editors Advertising Editors , J\$SOOi@tet\dvertfsing .Editor Photo Editor Sports Photo Editors Subscriptions Editor they enroll in Political Science 70-Civil Liberties. The course is taught in the Spring, but I'll bet that if Security politely asked the Registrar and Professor Daniels, they could get into the course this term. Sincerely, Andrew Sole PavidF'rantzt Greg Fay DebQie Albert, Miekey Bradley Barbara DOyle, Karen Ruga Josh Greene, JayGrossman · Ellen Slip~, Heidi Rosen PatMemtt, scott Press West Ral)()p6rt Staff: Valerie Bromberg, DaVid Brookman, Tod Dimtniek~ Lisa Foleyt J.R. Fortunato, David Gulliver, Kim Hancock, · Andy Hodgkin, Lance Humphreyt Mark Leyton, Emily Loose, Dave Marin; J:oanne McAndrews,· Peter Mohr, .Amy Rosenkrantz, Joy Runyon, Charlie Slotnick,. Jim Solomon, Mitche~lStein) Conrad Tatget Mark Van Buren, Soott Wykoff. Photo Stafft Sarah Barth) Mike :BoW:n1llft,Stllill!tOdell. CONCO&DmNsts is publis~d every Tf:.ttm:!'day by the ·Student body r;f U:1P(ln Colleg~, Carnegie J:I~ S ' . New York . 12303; Publlcations Office: Susquellanna , Inc., Box ' 388, Sidneyt ~w York 13833, (607) ij~$~!?U. Entered in tne SChenectady PtJst Offi:ce as third class ·matter ~very three weeks. Su~cription l*ate: $13 per ye.ar, delivered anywhere in ·· thel.Jntteastatesr··.·· .. ··.·· · ·. · · ; ' ' · · · · ·· N···· ·

hilation firmly :ies can minds, .cy that spring :Forum policy here no rlCerely, rmenof mdSDT ret. al. :ues) is . They m can't \ to its al and tpon the tole in a leas an .ce for If time. ful un- )St 40 in the '· 1 on ·date of re The es my when Jod are lcted by nts my of this inished. iusicant Science course but I'll politely and could term. · Amy York Box •· tne in CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/18, 1985 Page 11 THE ART.S Jazz Artists to Perform On Friday, April 19 at 7:30 p.m. in the Arts Building Recital Hall, ja~z pianist- composer Jeff Preslaff and drummer David Nelson, will perform an evening of im- provisational jazz entitled With Piano and Drums. The concert includes eight original im- provised duets, whose variety reflects the musicians' unusually eclectic backgrounds. Jeff Presslaff is a progressive jazz pianist who has also studied and performed the classical music of our own culture as well as that of South India and West Africa. He holds degrees in music from Prin- ceton University and Wesleyan University, and has taught improvisation,. composition, and world music at Bard College since 1978. In addition to acoustic and electric keyboards, he also plays trombone and South Indian bamboo flute. (He was recently heard accompanying his teacher, T. Viswanathan, in the first concert of this series.) His piano style is a highly original synthesis of a wide range of musical experience and is characterized llY deep intensity of focus and lively spontaneity. David Nelson started his career as a percussionist in Madras India in 1970 where he bagan study of the mridangam, the drum of South Indian classical music. He has since become one of the primary American performers on this instrument having ,studied for 12 years with master per- cussionist,. T. Ranganathan. He has accompanied many notable South Indian soloists, including a variety of dancers . in the Bharata Natyam tradition. In 1981 he turned his attention to the jazz drum set, a longstan- ding interest. Studying with Ed Blackwel and Ed Soph, he has developed a strong technique which combines with his already masterful sense of Indian rhythm to produce unusually powerful and sen- sitive drumming. Mr. Nelson has an M.F.A. from CalArls and has done Ph.D. work at Wesleyan. He also was featured in the first concert of this series. The concert is open to the public and there is no admission charge. S-tudent Photos Shown By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Editor Contrary to what some people would have you beiieve, art is not dead on the Union College campus-you just have to know where to look for it. For example, tucked away on the second floor of the Arts Building, wrapped around the corner corridor leading to the dark room, is an impressive photo exhibition selected from the works of winter term's Photography II class. The exhibit was edited, arranged, and hung by Professor Martin Benjamin and it represents the best of the photos done by the students. The show is a collection of thirty pieces selected from the class' final critique last month. It's a sampling that includes at least one entry from each of the fifteen students who took the course: Nate Baker, Rob Bleifer, David Block, · Ann Chodkowski, Brad Haigis, Nitichael Jacobs, Jay Kahle, Larry Kaminsky, Ingrid Koch, Michael Maddalone, Chris Nolan, Margaret Ross, Franklin Schneider, Rachel Siegel, and Hooey Stewart. The collection highlights many techniques of photography; lighting, com- position, form, etc. One method of composition used by several of the students is to represent their subject in two or more photographs-called ties-that fit together like a puzzle to present the whole picture. This is especially effective in works by Rob Bleifer (whose trip-tic portrait of a friend utilizes unique lighting touches within each tic) and Larry Kaminsky (whose quint-tic portrait presents a Picasso-like view of all sides of the model's face at once). all of the photos in the black· and-white exhibit are well- selected and deserve the recognition they've received. Though I'm no expert, I found the works of Larry Kaminsky, Franklin Schneider, Rob Bleifer, Hooey Stewart, and l WRUC J 8 9 .• 7 f M • 5 t· E R E 0 Here it is: mE WRUC TOP 8.97. These albums received the most airplay this past week on WRUC, You actually can influence this very prestigiQus chart by calling up WRUC at 370-6151 and requesting your favorite new music. This Week 1. Tears for Fears, \Songs from the Big Chair\ 2. Howard Jones, \Things Can Only Get Better\ 3. Smithd, \Meat Is Murder\ 4. UB40, \Geffery Morgan\ 5. Go West, \Go West\ 6. Blasters, \Hard Line\ 7. Drongos, \Small Miracle\ 8. Jason & the Scorchers, \Lost and Found\ 8.97. Vipers, \Outta the Nest\ Last Week Polygram 5 Elektra 3 Rough Trade 2 A&M 1 Chrysalis - Slash 4 Proteus 7 EMI 8 Passport - PROGRAM NOTES: Tune in to 89.7 FM for your chance to win tickets to the DB's, Lyres, and Reducers concert at the Alumni Gym on April 25 ... Remember Jazz on WRUC every weekday from 1-4 p.m .... A cut from ellch TOP 89.7 album will be counted down in an exclusive airing every Wednesday night at 10 p.m. compiled by Evan Schwartz' WRUCMusic Direetoa Iris Poet Seamus Heaney Will speak & read from his work Tonight at 8 p.m. in the NYS Museum At the Empire State Plaza The lecture is sponsored by the New York State Writers Institute especially Michael Maddalone particularly striking. Mad- dalone's three entries-a dip-tic representation of a flower and two rather igenious photos, one of eggs, the other of film-are, in themselves, worth the trip upstairs to the second floor. other photos by Block (a child's bicycle with a flat tire), Nolan {an interesting shot of some firehoses) Koch (a dip-tic view of a pair of ice skates), and several others are also memorable. On the whole, the exhibit is an intriguing one and a show definitely worth your time and attention. The display, which runs through April 30, is not only a testament to the con- siderable talents of the students in the course, it's also a temp- ting invitation to enroll in a photography class. Theatre: Best known for his portrayal of Sgt. Deitrich on \Barney Miller\ comedian Steve Landesberg will be appearing at Union for Parent's Weekend. He will perform at Memorial Chapel on Friday night, May 10 at 8 p.m. Tickets go on sale Monday at Carnegie Box Office. There will be a Yearbook Meeting TONIGHT at 7:30p.m. in the YEARBOOK OFFICE (4th Floor Carnegie) WE NEED YOUR HELP! Calendar Frankenstein: April18-20 at Stage Three, Siena College. 8 p.m. 783-2381. Our Town: April18-20 and 25-27 at the Main Theatre, Performing Arts Center at The University at Albany. 8 p.m. 457-8606. Laser Rhythm: New laser show at The Schenectady Museum Planetarium. April20, 21, 23-28. For information 382-7890. Music: What's the Point of Counterpoint? April 20 at 2 p.m. at Empire State Plaza, 474-1199. Hugh Allen Wilson: Organ Music: Featuring works by J.S. Bach on April20 at 8 p.m. at Union. 370-6201. General public Sunday, April21 at SUNY. Call for information. Dan-ce: The Copasetics: April21 at the Egg in Albany. 474-1199. Sheree Wilson and Stephen Geoffreys share a tender moment in new World Pictures release \FRATERNITY VACATION,\ a .college romp taking place in Palm Springs during spring vacation.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, Apri/18~ 1985 CAREER NEWS Internships & Scholarships (information available at the Career Development Center) The Empire ·State Institute for the Performing Arts at the Egg in Albany is now accepting applications for internships for the fall semester, September to December, 1985. Applications and further information may be obtained by calling Arlene Leff at 474-1199 or by writing to Intern Program Administrator, ESIPA, Empire State Plaza, Albany, New York 12223. A scholaJ;ship fund of $250,000 has been established by Warn- borough College of Oxford, England, to make an \Oxford experience\ available to more American students. Under the new WARN- BOROUGH College program, scholarships of up to $2,250 are being offered to qualified un- dergraduate and graduate students of American colleges and universities to study at Warn borough. The scholarships will cover study at Warnborough for a semester or for a full academic year, with the amount of the award scaled to the period of study. Complete details on these scholarships may be obtained from Arthur A. Daitch, U.S. Liaison Officer for Warn- borough, P.O. Box 3927, Amity Stateion, New Haven, CT 06525. Tel. (210) 387-446. The Mont Pleasant Boys' Club in Schenectady is looking for two interns. The interns would spend five hours each week either leading rap sessions or in Vehicles Included In the Plan. You may choose a new 1985 Thunderbird, LTD, Tempo, Mustang, Escort, Bronco. II or light trucks up to F-250. \Pre-Approved CrediL .lustmeet three simple conditions: Child Development capacity. Placements are for sununer and-or fall terms. The Devereux Foundation offers traineeships and ex- ternships to those interested in a mental health career. The trainee will be involve~ with a \love-in\ experience and receive training as well as experience. Applicants must be U.S. citizens, unmarried, and at least 21 years of age. Smith College offers a visiting students program. It allows women who want to spend a year studying at a different school, to come to Smith. Women will experience the unique atmosphere of a women's college devoted to teaching women. Cloverdale Press Inc., in New York offers an unpaid summer editorial internship. The intern will read and report on un- solicitedmanuscripts and assist editors in daily work. Must be a good typist. Dallas Water Utilities offers a 12 - 24 month Technical Intern Program. The program is for individuals interested in working with complex technical problems in water and wastewater industry. Can- didates must have two years experience or a masters degree. Application deadline: May 1, 1985. SUNY Stony Brook has ex- tended its application deadline for the Sununer Institute to May 1, 1985. Stony Brooks offers minority fellowships to students interested in public management. Students must have completed their junior year of college. Boston University's New England Program is designed • You must have verifiabl~ employ• ment that.begins within 120 days of your vehicle purchase at a salary sufficient to ordinary Jiving expenses and your vehicle payment. • You must have prool that you have graduated or will graduate and be awarded at least a bachelor's deg,-ee within 120 days. for students interested in American Studies to spend a semester in Boston. The student will participate in an internship with a cultural or civic agency. Application deadline for Fall semester: April15, 1985. ACTIVITIES BSA-UPAC of RPI is proud to present dancer-actress Tina Fabrique on Friday, April 26, 1985 at 8:30 p.m. in the Ren- sselaer Union's McNeil Room. Ticket prices are free with RPI ID, $2 with college ID and $3 .for the General Public. For more info. contact Rodney Scurlock at (518) 266-8585. Octavo Singers will perform Dvorak Requiem on Saturday, May 18, at Union College Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. Under the direction of Mr. George G. Moross, the 100 member chorus will sing ac- companied by an orchestra and professional soloists. Tickets for this event are available from members or from all locations of the Community Box Office at $6 for adults and $4 for seniors-students. For more information contact Janice Walz at 346-8081. The Instructional Resource Center, office of. Academic Affairs and the Professional Staff Congress of the City University of New York are pleased to announce the second national conference on MICROCOMPUTERS and Basic Skills in College on November 22-24, 1985 in New York City. We invite papers on the use of microcomputers in postsecondary basic skills in- struction. Please forward ab- stracts or send any inquiries to: Geoffrey Akst, Conference Your credit record, il you have one, must indi- cate payment made as agreed. 00 $400 Purcba&e Allowance. Make your best deal ... use the $400 as a down payment or receive a $400 cheek directly from Ford after the sale. Call Dennis J.' Hurley, Jr. Orange Motors Company, Inc. 799 Central Avenue, Albany, N.Y. • 489-5414 Chair, Instructional Resource Center, Office of Academic Affairs, the City University of New York, 535 East 8oth Street, New York,. New York 10021. Phone: {212) 794-5425. albany N.Y.: Yury's School of Gymnastics, 49 Railroad Ave., Albany, N.Y. will act as host for the upcoming United States Gymnastics Federation, Class I, Region VI Cahmpionship Meet and the Eite Eastern Zone Qualifying Meet to be held April 12, 13, 14, 1985 at Yury's School of Gymnastics, 49 Railroad Ave., Albany, N.Y. Maureen Brady, author of 'Folly and Give Me Your Good Ear, will offer ''SECRETS, SETTINGS, AND CHARAC- TERS\ a two day writing workshop for women, on May 18 and 19 at the Greenfield Literary Center in Saratoga,. New York. For further information on \SECRETS SETTINGS, AND CHARACTERS\ . please con· tact Marianne Rahn-Erickson, R.D. 2, First Light Farm, Salem, New York 12865. 854- 7640. CLUB NEWS The Union College Christian Fellowship meets Sundays this term, at 4:30 p.m., in Strauss Lounge. Come join us for Bible study and fellowship. All are welcome! The Art Club is once again sponsoring The All New & Fun Art Table in the Pub on Wed- nesdays at 12:30. Newman Social-Sunday, April 21 following the 7: 30 p.m. Liturgy the Newman Club will host a social in the Rectory for the 'Union Community. Newman Folk Group- Sunday evenings at 6:30 p.m. All singers and musicians meet with Friar Paul to prepare for the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. Newman Meeting & Social- Monday, April 22 at 8 p.m., 4th floor Lounge, Carnegie. Prayer-Scripture Group- Wednesday, April 24 at 11:30 a.m. with Sr. Joan in 4th floor Lou.nge, Carnegie. Confirmation Classes- Wednesday at 1:30 p.m. in Sr .. Joan's Office, 4th floor, Car- negie. Tutorial Program-Any Union student interested in tutoring one hour a week at St. John the Evangelist SchoGl please contact Liz Karazim, . 310-6774. 1985 Hunger Walkathon. Anyone who Wishes to walk in the 1985. Hunger Walkathon, Sunday:, May 5, please call Sr. Joan 370-6087. A ten kilometer walk starts at Linton H.S. at 1 p.m. 25 percent will go to each of the following four agencies: Crop, Catholic Family and Community Services, the Schenectady Inner City Ministry Emergency Food Program and Concerned for the Hungry. Walkers will be looking for sponsors. If you can't walk please plan to sponsor a walker to help the hungry. Open gaming II ! Every Wednesday night. 7:00 p.m. in Conference room . \A\ (3rd floor Carnegie). Spon.sored by the Union College Gaming Association. All are welcome II Bring your own game to play or come play in a game. For more information contact John at xti823. HELP WANTED Mohawk Trailer Supply, Schenectady, NY looking for student part-time or full-time. Warehouse work. Please contact Joe Buc.ci at 374-6677. Within Walking distance. Sales & Service position with U Haul Company, 2516 Ham- burg St., Schenectady, NY. Full time or part time leading to full time .• Working weekends and some evenings. Please apply in . person to above address. Student interested in working part-time. Outside ground- skeeper at Airport in Scotia. Richmor Aviation. Aircraft Lineman--cleaning aircraft, parking & moving aircraft. Please contact 399-8171, ask for. Richard Kaylor. Fixturing_ and Display Implementation-Year . round position for part-time em- ployeee with flexible hours. Sears & Roebuck & Co., 166 Erie Blvd., Schenectady, NY. 370-7015. ReqUirements: TYPE OF ABIUTY: Basic carpentry, minor mechanical, artistic feel for composition and presen- tation. Type of aptitude: Organized, self-motivating, active and vigorous, willing to work without direction, able to interact with sales managers. Tupe of work: Fixturing (shelf and tandem assembly), putting up signing, printing some signs, ordering materials, changing merchandise displays. On Thursday, April18 The Chester A. Arthur Centennial Lecture Series on Politics presents \The Changing Role of Political Parties in Political Campaigns'' Speaker is Audrey Sheppard, director of cam- paign services for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee in Washington, D.C.--8:00 p.m. in Old Chapel. Union College Democrats ELECTIONS Today• 4:30 Carnegie · Stage 2

in Sr. at 1 o each and the City Food for the ooking walk Every ~room jollege 11 are ~ own in a for with Ham- Full ~to full and in. Scotia. ircraft rcraft, ircraft. ask for . round em- hours. ~o., 166 NY. TYPE feel presen- to able to nagers. ~ (shelf putting signs, am- 8:00 CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/18, 1985 The film committee presented on 4-19 · 21 \A Clock\ work Orange\ at 7:30, 10:00, and on 4-23 ''Pippin\ at 7, 9, 11. Four bedroom flat close to campus. Call 393..8939. Parking available. Apartment available for summer rent, a block from campus, double occupancy, good condition, reasonable rent. Call for more info. x6484. The Department of History is conducting a third-year review of Professor Steven Sargent. Any person wishing to con- tribute to the review is invited to submit statements in writing or in person to Professor Donald Thurston, Chair, Department of History . The date and time of the showing of Roshoinon, the last in the series of Masterpieces of Japanese Films, has been changed to Sunday, April21, at 7:00 p.m. in SS 115. In Roshomon a man is murdered; his wife is raped by a bandit. Director Kurosawa uses a flashback technique to tell four different versions of what oc- curre!J. This is aprofound ex- ploration of the quicksilver nature of perception and truth. , CAMPUS NEWS The Departrnent of Arts is conducting a Third Year Evaluation for Assistant C ' r'A . . ·. S· '(Y T'CT• .rn.· ·VS . · · Professor of MUsic Hilary Tann. .L dlL'.l.D. - Anyone wishing to add com- ;:;::===::;:;:====== ments to the department's Apartment for summer available! One block from campus, very good condition. Modern bath and kitchen. Two bedrooms, Good rent. Good deal. Call 377-8991. Write your own professional resume with easy to .follow, line by line, instruction kit. Send $5.40 each to box 469. Include box number to send to. Make check payable Eric Cook. discussion regarding Professor Tann's teaching, scholarly activity and college service is invited to do so, in person or in writing. Contact Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, Chair- person, Arts Department. Did you go on a winter term abroad? The 1985 Yearbook · needs your pictures from Greece, Israel, and Mexico. Please bring your pictures to PARENT'S WEEKEND MAY lOth, 11th & 12th Tickets go on sale April 22nd in ticket booth. First come, first served. Cabaret Coffeehouse Film--' ~Places in the Heart'' Ramada Inn--Dance Contest Mountebanks--GOD IJN\OJ IS l-\(i.~IN(.. oNE. Of fl-1 ost.. L-o<JD :! 'KNOW -1 :?•JfDOOR U1tJ ISfi~J::L..Y [SAN\) S kt.f\~ nt,t;.. 1 AG-A\N ~ F1\2E. 5\~f.tJS • \ \ L ~ IN DE.At--1 's ofFic.-t=: the Yearbook meeting today at 7:30 p.m. in the Yearbook of- fice. What did you do during spring brea,k! The 19.85 Yearbook wants to know ... Bring all pic- tures With your name and box on the back to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office by April 26, or come to the Year· book Meeting tonight at 7:30. Have you bought your 1985 Yearbook yet?? It is on sale now in the Student Activities Office for $30. Limited supplies are left. .PERSONALS. .. . .. BU11, You're the greatest - Rover Te all Sorority members: Great job Thursday night. Too bad it didn't last. Zog - we missed our leader . -A fellow sibling Shan, it's great to have you back ... 313N just wasn't the same without you!! From DKE to Joe from Roanoke to the Chi Phi's from Georgia Tech, sippin' Bahama Mamas and catching those sun sprints; Buena Vista, Cable Beach Casino, the Villa, Prince Polo, Paradise Island ... Thanks for the memories! Love, Jacquie - P,S. It's BETTER in the Bahamas! Al and Jody-•Thanks for Monday night. You really helped make our birthdays special, How did you know that strawberry cheesecake was our favorite? Thanks again. Lisa and Ann, Don't forget ... It just has to b~ done!'!! Dearest Pumpkin, I'm so glad we're finally together! ! ! · Your roomie, Lester Hey guys, Miss you all lots! Don't be having too much fun at U.C. while I'm at D.C.-See ya soon!! Katie, What can we say-It's definitely not the same without you. Visit soon! Love, US WHY CORNELL? A great location. Study at one of the most beautiful Ivy League campuses and spend the summer in the magnificent countryside of the Finger Lakes region. Located on forty-mile-long Cayuga Lake. Ithaca is a small cosmopolitan city with restaurants, nightlife and all the urban advantages. A great university. Choose from a remarkable vari~ty of coursc;:s a.nd learning opportunities- more than .100 courses taught by distinguished Cornell faculty members. The curriculum in· eludes computer science, fine arts, pre-law and pre-med studies, and languages. Sign up for a tew weeks or the entire summer. Courses are offered in three-, six-, and eight-week sessiGns. A great adventure. Explore beautiful lakes and parks, spectacular waterfalls and ravines. Enjoy swimming, sailing, tennis, golf, climhing. camping, soaring, biking. birding, and hiking. A rich and lively schedule of free outdoor con· certs and theater makes Cornell an ideal place to meet people and make friends. Why Cornell? Because we love summer as much a~ you do. Make plans now. For a copy of the l98S Summer Session Announl-·ement call or write: Cornell University Summer Session. Box 22, B 12 Ives Hall Ithaca. New York 148';)·3901 607/216-4987 DO Y0U ~oil-1 Llkl::.. 0\)\DOOf?.... ~ AJvD <;; ~ Do you LJI:.E 10 1-1-A VE FUN? .J I YE.~\'' so~. / -1 t..~ IU:,v :I LO 0 k Ou 1'\ 111l.S :...; 1 N.i:>OUJ A I 1\-H:::. ST'UNONTS! ocJ You kt-Jow Wf.IPIT .:C: sEe:. - AN0'11-I£R woovsiDGt::. 7--: - A tJ D j)O Y c'JU 1<. N 0 t.J {.Ji-\ trr fL.~ S :t 5££? UITi..£ c,;dfN · AtJD PO~ P/....E.. hI DG£15 RUtvNII\Jb Al--L Ovt.f<. 1\-1£- Pl..Prc..t. ~ PrND ~t.y'~ M'1II<., tv'\t ~ f'SYC:.HOANf>LYSIS? I wHIH s IM1f - 0 Nr.\ , 6f -rWlS£. i H\fPl£ DRVG-S? · 1 11/ ~~~ Page 13 Riehon: A palladin such as yourself should not be asking innocent females to sign various portions of your body. · Luckily you had help from Madam Bovary's wench!-always, Clarice To all those IUP Bahama Mamas ... You really know how to swing! Don't y'all ever forget..Jt's BETTER in the Bahamas!! Congratulations to the new sisters of Delta Gamma. The brothers of Kappa Sigma Rub-a-dub-dub, two people in a shower ... ... oops, sorry, no more shower jokes! -the washing crew ZOG-You are my IDOL! Yasoo, and remem- ber .. bogosity, Mexican at coconuts, the Idiot, Plaka, Lekavitos, Hey laddy, S.D., Joe Eco, men in the Coffeehouse, Ouzo. Yes, they were all NICE! SDT Pledges-Get ready for a month of ''INSPIRATION\! Hi sexy! Guess what? I miss you! Doug, had a great time Saturday night. Hope to do it again sometime-but let's get an earlier start on the evening. You're a really nice guy. Attention· All Juniors Sophomores and Freshmen Applications are now available for the following committees. Film Concert S_peaker' s Forum Social Conduct Finance Committee on Committees Standing of Students $keller Board Sub-Council on Academic Computing Traffic I Pet Court Research & Grants Academic Affairs Planning & Priorities Human Resources Student ·Affairs Council Athletic Liason Admissions Liason • Applications and detailed informatio available in Mrs. Marra's office. • Applications due by 4:30, Monday, April 22 in Mrs. Marra's office.

Page 14 SPORTS W on1en~s Lax At 2-2 By HEIDI KAHN Sports Staff The season has started for the Union College women's lacrosse team, and head coach Marty Morrison and her squad are looking forward to a winning season. The team presently holds a 2-2 record after victories over Russell Sage and Castleton St. Colleg.e, and losses to Skidmore and U. of Rochester. Coach Morrison says ''the talent is there, but my players must concentrate more on scoring when they gain possession of the ball.\ She attributes the losses to Skid- more and Rochester more to lack of aggression than lack of ability. Experience and proficiency are evident on this year's team with many varsity players returning from last year's squad. Senior captain Carolyn Gilbert and sophomore Elaine Pick are doing a respectable job on defense due to their un- derstanding of the intricacies of the game. Junior Bonnie Faulkner, last season's high scorer, continues to add a powerful punch to the offense this year. However, a muscle pull bas prevented her from '- playing to her potential. A new spark has been added to the offense with the addition of freshman Jane Barkin who after just four games has'netted 10 goals. Debbie Hodin, the only other freshman on the varsity squad, has already made solid contributions to the team as llas senior. Laurie Bidstrup, an unselhsh player who often sacrifices her own scoring opportunities in order to .set up teammates. Returning goalie Monica Lobel continues to improve with every game and is giving the Dutchwomen added confidence. Furthermore, coach Morrison feels the J. V. team is .perhaps the strongest ever with a 1-1 record. The players are looking forward to tomorrow's home game against R.P.I. with an- ticipation. The varsity has its next contest Saturday when it hosts West Point on the turf at 11 : 00 ( changed from 1: 00) . With both a strong varsity and junior varsity squad \the players just have to be hungry enough to. win,\ says coach Morrison. If the team can remain enthusiastic, the season looks favorable for the 1985 Laxwomen. CONCORDIENS/S 1 Apri/18, 1985 Men's LaxContinue·ToWi.n By MARK LEYTON CPSIS The Union men's lacrosse team is still on its winning course after defeating Albany State 13.:6 and Oneonta State 8-4 last week. The first .game, played on home turf last Thursday found the Dutchmen up against crosstown rival Albany State. This was a par- ticu~arly special game, as rookte head coach Mike Toop hails from Albany State as assistant lacrosse coach. ' The Dutchmen went into the game underdogs, losing to Ablany last year, but their drive, intensity and determination proved to~ strong for the Great Danes. The Dutchmen went up early with a scoring surge in the first half by captain Marc Ehudin and fresh- man Phil Horn. At the half Union was up 9-0 and looking towards an easy victory. However, the Danes came back scoring six goa1s to Union's four in the second half, giving the Dutchmen a decisive victory. Perhaps most gratified, coach Toop was presented the game ball as his team celebrated for themselves as well as for their new coach. The Dutchmen, however, now had to turn their sights to Oneonta, who had taken them into overtime last year, with rJJ rJJ Q) ... Q. ·+- ·+- 0 u 'l.fl >- .c £ 0 .r: 0. . Defense was especially strong this game, as Jolm Drake, Todd Johnston, and Tim Meyer were backed by rookie goalie sen- sation John Thorne to hold Oneonta to only four goals. Also Freshman Attackrrian Phil Horn loo.ks for a around an Albany defender. pass as he heads playing solid games were Mike Weisberger, Tim Clorite, John Romeo, Andy Ross, Gary Cornick, and Mark Leyton. Hardballers Achieve 4-4 Slate Union pulling out a close vic- tory. This was not to be the case this year. Oneonta kept the game close in the first half but Union opened up a lead in the third quarter that could not be cl~se.d upon. Union ended up wmnmg the game 8-4; with Ehudin scoring 3 goals with three assists; Horne having four goals, and Eric Kaye tallying a goal and an assist. The Dutchmen now face the tougher half of their schedule with sixth ranked Middlebury and a tough RPI coming this week. Yet if they can continue their intensity, the ECAC's and a winning season for them and Coach Toop will be a reality. ByWALLTYT.BEAR and T.C. CANNON Sports Staff · Union took a pair from Oneonta State last Saturday to even their record at four wins and four losses. In the first game, Rich Bartosh hurled a four hitter and freshman Glen Kata had a clutch 3 run triple as the Dutchmen came back from a 4 run deficit to beat Oneonta State 6-4. In the second game of the doubleheader, senior co- captain Nat Harris pitched a two hitter to power Union to its first sweep in 3 years. Sophomore catcher Steve Alves contributed two hits and played outstanding defense to lead Union in their twin victories. The Dutchmen started the season on a sour note by dropping a doubleheader to St. Lawrence. Poor defense and untimely hitting cost the Dut- chmen their first two games. The following week, Senior John Moretti and junior Tom Barrett powered Union to a 12'-6 win Tracksters • • • Continued from page lfi the only double scorer with a first in the 100 meter dash with a time ·Of 11.2 and a third in the 200 meter event with a time of 23;6 Bill McRoberts finished 4th in the 5km race. On Sunday four members of the men's track team travelled to St. John's for the Red Men Classic. Winston Britton ran a 50.75 second 400 meter race, Mike Reed ran a4:02.11 at 1500 meters and in the 800 meter event Rob Mohlar and Jeff Barker ran a 1:59.3 and 1:59.7 respectively. This coming Saturday the men's track team travels to Hartwick for the Hartwick Invitational and the women travel to Binghamton for a tri- meet with the Colonels and Albany St. FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY!! May 17, 1984 Battle of the Bands *Prizes* Contact Jaquie Dunbar x6663 over Albany State. Both Moretti and Barrett provided the big hit~ with home runs in the 3rd and 6th innings. Co-captain Tim Alibozek also provided punch with a 3-run double in the 6th. Sophomore Rich Bartosh pit- ched outstanding baseball to gain his first win. The following day Union traveled to R.P.I., and behind the big bat of Pete Cohan handed the Engineers their first loss of the season. Cohan collected 5 hits in 6 at bats to give Union the necessary offensive punch to win 14-9. Pitcher Ted Cannon came on in relief and allowed just 2 runs in 7 innings to pick up the victory. Where Can You Find The Freshest New Views On Sports? Last Thursday at home against Hartwick, the Dut- chmen dropped a 6-5 decision despite a two hit pitching performance by freshman Ken Horan, and a fine defensive play by sophomore Alex Rita. On Friday the Dutchmen travelled to Hamilton only to lose a tough 5-3 ballgame. In defeat fresh- man Tim Valcivick pitched a strong game and sophomore Andy Marcopolis played tremendous defense at third base. Mter Hamilton, Union evened their record at 4-4 against Oneonta. Today Union takes on R.P.I. at Central Park, and Saturday hosts Norwich at Central again. SPORTSLINE Mon., Wed., Fri. 7:30-8:00 on WRUC 89.7 FM TRIVIA PRIZES! NOTICE! QE2 STANDBY FARE'lb EUROPE-NOW $599. This standby fare provides a berth in a room for 4 (we'll find traveling companions for you). Or, for $699, sail in a minimum grade room for 2 people. This limited offer is subject to withdrawal without prior notice and may not be combined with any other offer. Rate does not include taxes or airfare. Confirmation will be given 3 weeks prior to sailing; a $75 deposit is required with your request. For details, see your travel agent or write: Cunard, P.O. Box2935, Grand Central Station, New York, NY lffi63. UEEN 2 LIZABETH Britis& Registry COllARD

• 1n strong !, Todd r were .e sen- > hold s. Also head$ re Mike e, John Gary ton. 'ace the chedule .dlebury ing this :ontinue ,c•s and 1em and eality. . CONCO~DIENSIS, April 18, 1985 By JAY GROSSMAN Sports Editor This week's athlete of the week honors belong to Senior co- captain of the men's lacrosse team, Mark Ehudin. The four- year letter winning attackman leads all Dutchmen scorers with 20 goals and 9 assists. In this past week's action, Ehudin led the team to important victories over Albany State and Oneonta, tallying 3 goals and 3 assists in the latter game. In past years, Ehudin has been the mainstay Athlete of ·the Week of the Union attack, and con- ;;; tinues to be the sparkplug this season. After chalking up 31 points in his freshman year, his Ruaby ••• Con.tinu'fffrom page 16 running, and drop-kicking ability .. Pat DiCerbo, a former trackster, fought hard to overcome the size disadvantage he faced against a big Siena line. Don Templeton, a transfer here, also fought hard to beat the odds. Lastly, Jay Pennock came into the game in the second half and demonstrated his jumping talent. With a 2-0 record (and both wins shut-outs), Union's 1st XV goes into next we~k's away games against Albany .(on Wednesday) and Ithaca (on Saturday) with their chins up and their chests out, as they rightfully should. The B-side, although having shown signs of 1983 statistics pr,oved to be his best as he led all Union scorers with 37 points. Last season was a disappointment for Ehudin as he finished the season with only 12 points and missed a good part of the season due to injuries. In addition to his outstanding lacrosse career at Union, Ehudin also served as the punter for the varsity football team, where he compiled a 33.1 yards per punt average. Marc is a political science major who hails from Baltimore, MD. Congratulations to Mark Ehudinas this week's athlete of the week. winning potential, go with the hunger and frustration of a team having been beaten on its own turf. Despite their loss the Killer B's stand tall, as would any group of individuals, being, as they are, a part of a cham- pionship team like the men in red, black and white! Follow the Triumphant luggers · To Ithaca This Weekend!! ':~_ '~ Page 15 SPORTS Josh Greene On Sports As allegations of the. point shaving scandal at Tulane surface, most people's reac- tions are that of shock, disbelief, and sorrow for the chosen few whose lives will most certainly be ruined resulting from what seems to have transpired. I used the word \allegations\ because many of the alleged have already pleaded innocent to charges ranging from sports bribery violations (punishable by up to five years in prison and a $10,000 fine) to possession and distribution of cocaine. What seems most puzzling is, in a world where pot is as accessible to high school students as cigarettes are, in a world where professional athletes range in age from seventeen to forty- five, and in a society where gambling and betting is an accepted social norm, it is so shocking and unbelievable that several students at Tulane, both on and off the basketball team, thought they had found a better way. The players were motivated by the idea that they didn't have to do anything. At a postgame party at an apart- ment of one of the accused, a Tulane basketball player was quoted as saying, \Hey we won the game and still got all that money.\ . The events leading up to the arrests developed over a period of four months. Gary Kranz, a junior at Tulane, started to become friendly with Clyde Eads, a senior starting forward for the Tulane basketball team. Soon Eads wanted to purchase some cocaine; in exchange Kranz .requested some Tulane basketball equipment. For a half-gram of cocaine, Kranz was soon the proud owner of assorted Green Wave basket- ball gear. The gear was swiped by senior Jon Johnson, who Eads claimed was in a better position to get what was needed. The connection was made: the partnership which until now had only exchanged mutual favors was now about to go for the big killing. Kranz, from New Rochelle, along with two friends, Mark Olensky and David Rothenberg, approached Eads and proposed their idea to shave points in the upcoming Southern Mississippi game. Eads, receptive to the idea at first said he had to talk to \our main man\ who turned out to be John Williams. Williams, a senior, was last year's Metro Conference Player of the Year, the Green Wave's leading scorer and· rebounder and a certain NBA first round draft pick. David Dominique, a sophomore point guard, as well as Bobby Thompson, a reserve guard, were enlisted in the plot as well. Thompson, whose father is in federal prison for making illegal loans, was a known gambler and would act as the middle man between Kranz and the group. In the Southern Mississippi game that evening, Tulane was favored by the odds makers by ten and a half points. The act of point shaving itself would be for the Tulane players to do something during the game to insure that they did not win by the favored margin. With little time to· spare, Kranz and his colleagues were able to bet $7,000 that Southern Mississippi would cover the spread. Tulane prevailed 64-63; payoffs ranged from nine hundred dollars for Williams, Eads and Johnson to four hundred dollars for Dominique and Thompson. The next target was the Virginia Tech game. But the players were already starting to get nervous; Johnson had stopped attending meetings of the group, Eads wanted out but said . \If it looke like I need to do something, I'll be in.\ Nothing was done in connection with the Virginia Tech game. Memphis State was next on the list. In the Memphis State game. Olesky and Rothenberg were able to raise $34,000 to bet that Tulane would lose by more than seven points. If they placed all $34,000 down at the same place, people would definitely know the fix was on. To solve that problem Olesky and a friend flew to Las Vegas and placed $18,000 down with ten different bookies. $10,000 was placed with Birmingham bookies and the remaining $6,000 was placed in New Orleans. At this time Kranz was in Florida vacationing with his parents. Bobby Thompson, enlisted by the group originally because of his known gambling background, contacted Roland Ruiz, a local bookmaker and spoke about a possible fix of the Tulane-Memphis State game. Thompson failed to let Kranz, Olesky and Rothenberg know-a classic case of \double dip- ping.\ Ruiz provided some $6,000 distributed amongst the players to buy into the plot. The Tulane-Memphis State game was played on February 20 at Tulane. ·At the half the Green Wave found themselves leading the Tigers by six points. Eads, along with Williams, Dominique and Thompson met in the bathroom and dec!ded something had to be done. Memphis State had to be allowed to score early and get back into the game. All- American Keith Lee of Mem- phis State opened the second half with three quick baskets. Andre Turner, a guard for the Tigers, scored ten points down the stretch to secure the Memphis State victory. The final score, a 60-49 Memphis State victory made everyone winners; those who lost were to be rewarded for their troubles. Just as all good things come to an end, the Tulane basketball program took a turn sharper than that of the economy during the Great Depression, when it suspended its program per- manently as a result of the point shaving allegations. Ned Fowler, head coach at Tulane, resigned after posting a respectable 70-45 record during his four-year tenure. Motivated by money, by the idea of receiving while actually doing very little, this was what was so appealing to the group. Three basketball players (two players have been granted immunity)--one of which seemed certin of a NBA career, all face possible prison sen- tences. Three Tulane students all seem headed for similar fates. In a society which offers temptation at every corner, it is truly sad that . the poor judgment of several college students wil result in so many lives being affected ad- versely .... WRUC Sports presents UNION DUTCHMEN LACROSSE Saturday, April 27th 3:00p.m. vs. Hamiltom pregame show at 2:45 TUNE IN!

Page 16 SPORTS Tracksters By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff Highlighted by triple wi.J1s by Scott Remillard and a sweep of the long jump, the Union men'.s track team coasted to an easy 82-72 win over the Hamilton Continentals at Hamilton last Wednesday. In the women's meet lack of team depth took its toll as the lady Dutchmen lost 91-33. Junior Scott Remillard contributed three of the Union men's eleven individual first places with wins in the shot put, discus and hammer throw. He won each weight event with throws of 42 ft. liz inch, 142 ft. 1 inch, and 164 ft. 8llz inches respectively. Senior Bob Bertagna was a double winner in the triple and the long jlllilp. In the triple jump his winning distance was 42 ft. 2 inches. His long jlllilp win of 20ft. 3% inches topped a Dutchman sweep of the event that saw Bill Craig take second at 19 ft. 4% inches and Cecil Bright third at 19 ft. 3If2 inches. Due to the weather and track conditions at Hamilton on Wednesday the running events were moved indoors. On the Hamilton indoor facility, Union opened up with a 1-2 finish in the 1500 meter race. Chris O'Donnell took the honors with a time of 4:08.5 followed closely by . Mike Reed with the same time. Union got another 1-2 CONCORD/ENSIS,Apri/18, 1985 Show Improvement finishes by Jeff Barker and Reed in the 8QO meter race with a winning time of 2: 02.8. In the 60 meter dash and 200 meter event, Winston Britton and Todd Allen both took first and second also, with winning times of 7.1 seconds and 22.8 respectively. In the women's meet the Dutchmen were able to salvage two relay wins and two in- dividual firsts. Unable to field atheletes in three events, the women cop.centrated on getting top individual performances and scattered places as many of the women participated in multiple events. Je.n Dilorio got Union's first win with a first in the javelin with a throw of 116 ft. 2 inches. Dilorio went on to place second in th~ discus with a throw of 86 ft. 10 1 /z inches. Carmela Creech gained a big win in the 400 meter race with a time of 1:04.3. She then placed third in the high jump with a height of 3 ft. 10 inches. Julie Halpern just missed a first place finish in the 60 meter hurdles as she got edged out at the tape. Her time of 10.7 was identicle to the first place standard. The Union women showed superiority in the relays as they took the 4x200 event with a time of 1:56.4 and easily won the mile relay with a time of 4:31. On Saturday the women traveled to Albany for the Albany Invitational. In this meet the women scored 20 points to finish eighth out of eleven teams competing. The day was highlighted by the establishing of thre.e school records. Carmela Creech set an individual record in the 400 meter event with a time of 1:04.1. The other two records were set in the relays as the women ran a 55.3 second 4x100 relay and a 1600 meter relay record of 4:19.7. Julie Halpern led off with a 65.7 split and this pace was maintained with the exception of Carmela Creech's 64 second third leg. Rounding out the record setting team were Andrea Grief running second and Jenny Lee running anchor. Also scoring for the Dut~ chmen was J en· Dilorio and Karin Krolikowski in the javelin with throws of 117 ft. 7 inches and 109ft. 8 inches respectively. In the 800 meter event .Jenny Lee ran a 2:27.7, in the long jum Liona Wetherall jumped 14 ft. 5112 inches and Julie Halpern ran a 72 second time in the 400 meter hurdles. Also on Saturday, part of the men's team went to Binghamton for the Binghamton Invitational. RPI won this event with 112 points and Union finished 7th out of 13 with 30 points. Wayne Lacy won the pole vault with a jlllilp of 13 ft. 6 inches and Todd Allen was Continued on page 14' DUTCHMEN SPORTS WEEK April 18- April 24 Thursday 4/18 Men's Baseball vs. RPI Women's Softball vs. St. Rose Men's Golf vs. Harn ilton Women's Lacrosse at R PI Friday 4/9 Saturday 4/20 Men's Lacrosse at RPI Men's Baseball vs. Norwich (2) Women's Lacrosse vs. West Point A & B Women's Softball vs. Skidrnore (2) Men's Outdoor Tnack at Hartwick I nvy Women's Outdoor Track at Bing. w/Aibany Monday 4/22 Men's·Golf vs. Hartwick Women's Lacrosse at Middlebury Women's Softballvs. Siena Tuesday 4/23 Men's Baseball vs. St. Rose Wednesday 4/24 Men's Baseball vs. Colgate Men's Lacrosse vs. Williams Women's Softballvs. Oneonta Men's Tennis a.t R PI 3:00p.m. 3:30p.m. 1:00 p.m. 2:00p.m. 2:00p.m. 1 :OO.p.m. 4:00p.m. 11:00 a.m. 12:00p.m. 1:00 p.m. 3:00p.m. 3:30p.m. 3:00p.m. 3.:00p.m. 4:00p.m. 3:30p.m. 3:00p.m. ~a-----GARNET SCOREBOARD------t April9- April 17 MEN'S BASEBALL (4·4) Union 12 Union 14 Hartwick 6 Hamilton5 Union6 Union4 Union 15 Unions MEN'S LACROSSE (5·2) WOMEN'S LACROSSE (2·2) Skidmore A& B 12 Union 15 UnionlO Rochester 11 Union4 Union4 Union27 Union 12 WOMEN'S SOFTBALL (4-0) A!bany 6 RPI9 Union 5 Union 3 Oneonta 4 Oneonta 1 . Albany 7 Oneonta 4 Union 8 Russell Sage 9 Castleton 5 Union 6 Siena 2 Albany 3 Skidmore 8 Skidmore 11 Crew is Victorious. • • . • . Defeat Div. I power Siena By ANTHONY R. CORSELLO and SANDY NAGLER Sports Staff This past weekend the Union Crew team won their first regatta in 108 years (the newly formed club has been rowing since last fall) and oft he Spring season. A rigorous winter training program, a Spring training trip to Atlanta, Georgia and dedication during daily practices during the beginning of this term all have led to the success of the club. On April13, this training paid off in the form ofthe men's crew winning three of the four events in which they were entered in. The regatta was hosted by Assumption College and was held on Lake Quinsigarnond in Worcester, Mass., one of the world's foremost regatta locations. The Union men and women were also competing against Clerk University and Colby College. Both the men's varsity eight man shell and novice eight as well as the men's varsity four placed first in their respective races. Rowing in the men's 0 ~ 111 ... 0 u oc >- c 0 J: .,_ c <( > .0 0 0 -- 1: Q. varsity eight were {from bow to stern) Moose, Dave Sveden, Lance Humphrey, Brian McGuirk, John Wyatt, Carl Schuldt, Greg Clark and ·John Ciavacco who were coaxed by Chuck Blotnick and who finished the course in 6:43.9! In the men's novice eight were Brendan Cassidy, Bruce Szymanski, Tony Corsello, Paul Emsbo, Mark Burton, Dave Gascione, Dave Jones, and Ted Eveleth who finished the course in 7:03.4 coaxed by Joel Musicant. The varsity four consisted of members ·of the varsity eight. Brian, Lance, John Ciavacco and John Wyatt who paddled down the course in 7: 16.6 to take first place. The women's crew entered in three events and performed well after only one week of practice on the Mohawk River and with many novice rowers participating. The entire club is looking forward to ·upcoming regattas this spring and encourages everyone to come support them especially on April 26 when the club will be hosting a regatta on the Mohawk River in Schenectady. Union crew prepare their paddles on their recent spring training trip to Atlanta, GA. Ruggers Run Wild By J.R. FORTUNATO Sports Staff If there were any doubts as to the credibility of this author's praise last week of Union's Rugby team, those dougts were dispelled last Saturday when the Ruggers pulled off their second straight shut-out of the Spring season by beating Siena 14-0. • The much appreciated spectators who came got a chance to see just how good the Rugby team is this Spring. The 1st XV, for the first time in four years, beat Siena in the poised, confident, sportsman-like style akin to all of Union's athletes, with the added touch of toughness, aggressiveness, and readiness that characterizes the Rugby team. If there was a player that was most valuable in the game this past Saturday, that player would have to be Andy Klump. Andy rose to the occasion and kicked two field goals and made one try official by downing the ball while in control. That try was set up by Steve Konlian, who, with extraordinary upper- body strength, seemed to fly into the try-zone on the far side of the field in the second-half, bloody nose and all. This came at about the same time as Steve's other run up the field, u11 whkh he came very dose tu scoring, but was grounded by Siena defenders. The other try was scored by the Gerth him- self, Meade SlUilmers, who took control as he always seems to do when the try-zone is near, and growled, smashed, and knocked his way into the try- zone with Gerth-like grace. Ron Amidon made his A-side debut a memorable one by slipping in and out of Siena defendder;:;. getting close to scoring several times, and smashing Siena ball- handlers with bone-crushing tackles. Rob Israel, though not the biggest Union Rugger, played like a giant, with the hard-nosed, aggressive style of running that has deservedly become his trademark. Tim Riley, who played with an in- jured leg, showed no signs of mental weakness, as he ran into crowds of Siena tacklers, who were clearly trying to behead him. Jeff Albrecht showed strong running ability in ad- dition to his outstanding lineout jumping and serum-down pushing by nearing the try-zone in the second~half. Ed Hart, who seems to be everywhere all of the time, and never out of breath, advanced the balL by simply kicking it and by ac- tually picking it up and running it himself. Dave Blee, even after suffering a broken nose, played his usual hard-fought game, covered with blood and dirt. Scott Collins produced the field position Union has come to expect from him, and continued his success as the team's quiet leader. Doug Baumgarten's select-side plays proved helpful in the win, along with his in- telligent decision making (as to when those plays should be used) and distinct running style. Jim :vlcNeil provided the tough tackling that prompted warnings by the referee,. per- haps out of sympathy for the Siena runner Jim was terrorizing, and stopped the Siena ball-handlers in their tracks. John Friske contributed his usual quickness and tough- minded play, despite a ·nagging shoulder injury. Jeff Wilson provided the important link between the team's serum and line at serum-half, bringing the team together smoothly. Lastly, · but not least important, Steve Lipsky, clearly the player who has matured the most this year, showed character and -deter- mination by beating his op- ponent in the second-half after being beaten in the first, and by proving to be a powerhouse runner when given the chance. Unfortunately, the Garnet tradition was broken in the second game of the match when the killer B's strong effort fell short of Siena's, as they lost 6- 18. The situation was such that Union's B-side was clearly out- matched, and consequently, was out-played. The Siena serum out-pushed the Garnet heavyweights with seeming ease, and the Siena linemen successfully evaded their would-be tacklers. The only score for Union in the loss carne in the second half when John Foster, in the spirit of the fighter pilot he someday hopes to be, overcame his op- ponent and swiftly put the ball down in the try-zone as close to the goalposts as possible, giving the kicker, Matt Chambers good field position. Surely enough, Matt Chambers converted the try and capped off what seemed to be the start of a comeback by Union's B-men. However, that effort proved to be the only profitable one for Union. as the Garnet was held to that one .score for the rPmainder of thr game. Despite the losing score, the B-side showed signs of true winning ability, as a munber of players stood out. Rob Sharpe, though hurt in the 2nd half, continued to play until the final whistle blew. Dave Jennings, calling the line-outs, played a hard-fought game. Jody Perkins, rough and to·ugh both on and off the field, provided punishing tackles. hard·nose Continued on page 15

~·-- :OOp.m. :30p.m. :OOp.m. :OOp.m. :OOp.m. :OO.p.m. :OOp.m. :ooa.m. :?O.p.m. :OOp.m. :00 p.m. :30p.m. :OOp.m. :OOp.m. :OOp.m. :30p.m. :OOp,m. ~!bany 6 RPI9 Union 5 Union 3 neonta 4 neonta 1 O...lbany 7 neonta 4 Union 8 II Sage 9 stleton 5 Union 6 Siena 2 O...lbany 3 dmore 8 lmore 11 who thi~ year, deter- his op- after and by house chance. Garnet in the when effort fell lost 6- such that out- Siena Garnet seeming linemen their Union in half spirit someday his op- the ball close to giving good enough, the seemed by that only as the one of thl' the of. true of Sharpe, half, final a Jody both .... Q) .0 ;:) .... C> ~ > It) 0 >- .0 0 +- 0 .s::; c. VM C.. I <1 )~c w\\, Bulk Rate U.S. Postage I;' aid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 CXIV, No. '19 Schenectady, New York April 25, 1985 Student Forum members, (left to right), Steve Benson 1 Lynne O'Brien, Steve Moss, Dave Marin and Brian Lauxwere members of the ad hoc committee formed to revise the party policy. Students Take Initiative • e • New Party Policy Approved By MAUREEN COLEMAN News Editor On Wednesday, April 17, an ad hoc conunittee of students initiated by the Student Forum met to discuss \the legitimate and pressing concerns over previous outdoor spring events- band parties.\ As a result of this meeting, the Student Affairs Office and several representatives of the ad hoc conunittee approved a new Outdoor Party Policy and Regulations on Friday, April19, 1985. Sea11 Griffin, student; Ellen Slipp, SOT sister; Alex Szulman, AD Phi brother; James Maguire, Psi Upsilon brother; Kelly Larkin, President of Davidson Dorm; Maureen Coleman, Con- cordiensis; Jon Mathewson, KA \The fact that students must act responsibly must not be overem- phasized because the success or the failure of this policy is contingent upon the students' behavior atthese events.\ -Steve Moss Bolster and. AI:phi Delta Phi brother and IFC member, Pat Vernich, met with Dean of Students Joseph Mammola and Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa, on April 19 to approve the following eleven points for the Outdoor Music Policy: 1. Outdoor music concerts may be held only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Fridays and 1:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Saturdays. No more than one such concert may be held per day per weekend. In case of rain, or other unex- pected interruption, the event may be postponed and rescheduled only on the same day during the hours noted above. No concert, under any circumstances, may be Gleitman Speaks On Remembering By BETH LEVINE Contributor The keynote speaker of the 20th Annual New York State Undergraduate Psychology Conference was· Dr. Henry Gleitman. He addressed the topic of memory in his talk: \Forget it! Some Principles of Remembering.\ Dr. Gleitman received his Ph.D. from the Un'iversity of California at Berkeley. As a University of Pennsylvania professor, he received the Lindback Award for Distinguished Teaching. Though his specialty is animal memory, he is the author of Basic Psychology and Phrase and Paraphrase. In his sfieech, Dr. Gleitman outlined the key points in retaining knowledge stored in memory and then remembering it. What exactly is forgetting? As Dr. Gleitman pointed out, \any act of memory is an at- tempt to recover the memory trace.\ A failure to recover the material could be due to a problem at a) the moment of acquisition, b) storage, or c) retrieval. The initial act of memory begins at acquisition. If the material was never en- countered, then it cannot be remembered. (Do you know the six-lettered word for an aquatic mammal in danger? For all you trivia buffs, the answer is dugong.) The information has to be encoded and finally reviewed in order to tell whether the stored information is correct. Gleitman asked the audience to think of a United States penny. Which president is on the head's side? Which way is he facing, right or left? What is above, below, to the left or right of his face: In order to test the ac· curacy of our memories, we were asked to reach underneath our seat where we found a penny. As Dr. Gleitman points out, we \can't remember what was not learned, even if it is encountered.\ Even when the iJlformation has been learned and the memory trace is intact, memory failure still occurs. More is forgotten during waking rather than sleeping. Simply by living, biochemical reactions erode the memory trace. An increase in temperature causes a rise in chemical reactions; and vice versa. In his laboratory, Dr. Gleitman used goldfish to demonstrate the effects of different tem- peratures on memory. In colder tank water, a learned task was forgotten less than when in warmer surroundings. This decay of storage is one cause of memory failure. A problem of retrieval is another factor leading to forgetting. Using the metaphor of finding a book in the stacks, Dr. Gleitman indicated that any sort of retrieval becomes dif- ficult without a card catalogue. Retrieval, whether it is recall or recognition,. depends on the presence or absence of retrieval cues. Scores on tests are better when subjects are tested in the same situation that they learned the material because, if the retrieval cue is different or The ad hoc committee formed on April 18, because, as stated in its policy, \we as students, feel a responsibility to the Union community at large to take action to resolve\ the problems noted by the Office of Student Mfairs. member-Film Committee Chairperson; Patrick Vemich, IFC-AD Phi brother; Peter Hutchinson, Concert Com- mittee; Roger Harris, President of IFC. Continued on page 2 To demonstrate how inept and incompetent we all are with a common stimulus encountered countless numbers of time, Dr. Continued on page 2 These problems include the following: violations of the Schenectady Noise Ordinance, occasional vandalism and \trashing\ of residence halls, the presence of outsiders who do not feel obligated to follow College policies and regulations, and occasional alcohol abuse and rowdy behavior. Members of the ad hoc committee include: Steve Benson, President of Student Forum; Brian Laux, Vice President of Finance-Student Forwn; Lynn O'Brien, Senior Represent at ive--St ude n t Forwn; Doug Landon, Senior Representative -·Student Forwn; Dave Marin, Junior Representative--Student Forum; Steven Moss, Sophomore Representative- Student Forum; Eric Feingold, Concert. Committee; Katie St. John, West Dorm Council; Mary Dickinson, West Dorm Council; Gardner Bolster, President of West College; Pat Larkin, President of Fox Dorm; ·Steve Bertman, KA member; Opening the meeting, Steve Benson, President of Student Forum, expressed a desire to recognize the problems caused by outdoor parties in the past and to construct solutions which would satisfy both the ad- ministration and the students. Dave Marin, Student Forwn representative, emphasized, \we have to show that we have the responsibility as a cross- section of the campus to find a solution that prevents problems instead of solving them af- terward.\ Accordingly, the Committee discussed ways in which the student organizations that hope to sponsor outdoor events could work with the administration and security to avoid problems which have occurred in the past. The Committee for- mulated a proposal stating its conclusions and submitted these suggestions to the Student Affairs Office on April 18. Student Forum members Steve Moss, Dave Marin and Lynn O'arielf along with West College President Gardner As the temperature heats up, students make the library U2 Reviewed *-page 11-* Oarsmen Row to Finals *-see page 15- * ... (JJ .0 :J ... I!) '0 > ro 0 >- !l !? 0 .r: 0.

. Page2 - Q) u 0 .... .... Ill :;) .... tJl >- .0 0 ... 0 .r: a. Professor Gleitman spoke on principles of remembering at the Psychology Conference last weekend. Gleitman Speaks Continued from page 1 not present, it could lead to memory failure. The road to memory success requires a few key points. Of course there are obstacles, such as decay, interference, and retrieval, but one important part of developing a memory system is to learn properly and to organize the material. Continuing with the library metaphor, one must build a card catalogue to fit more books into the stacks. Storage Bottleneck One other problem is the storage bottleneck. In order for information to be stored, it must pass from short-term to long- term memory. But short-term memory has a small holding capacity. ''As you try to hold on to them, they slip away,\ points out Dr. Gleitman. The memory span for short-term memory is about seven (plus or minus two) pieces of information. To overcome this bottleneck of getting memory into long•term storage, one must use \chunking\ to make many small units into one. One memory package should con- tain many sub-units. Chunking employs an active recording to facilitate remembering. Sounds and granunatical units are examples. Another Memory Aid Another aid to memory is the use of imagery. Forming active mental pictures is a better way to remember rather than using words . and repetition. Imagery only helps, though, if the items to be remembered are pictured interacting in an active way. One pair of words used in an experiment is \locomotive/ , dishtowel\. Dr. Gleitman confessed that he no longer can see a train without picturing it wrapped in a dishtowel in a diaper-like fashion. In summary, Dr. Gleitman advised the audience to organize the data, learn and code the information well, protect what already has been learned, to learn as little as possible, and to stay cold. CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/25,.1985 . Apartheid Protested (CPS)-\l'm looking out over about 250 students who have chained the doors shut and are blockading Hamilton Hall, and We're all prepared to be arrested if that's what it takes,\ reported Josh Nessen, national student coordinator of the American Committee on Africa (ACA), by phone from inside the beseiged building. Cloistered on the steps of Columbia University's ad- ministration building-in 1968 it was the site of a bloody student occupation protesting the Vietnam War-the students beat drums and chanted: What do we want? Divestment. When do we want it? Now. When we gonna leave? Never. One day into the occupation, which began as part of the annual April 4th \Day of Action\ on campuses nation- wide, Nessen promised the 200 or so students \won't leave until the trustees guarantee in writing that they'll divest all South Africa-tied stock holdings.\ The occupation was still going on four days later. Nessen, who has been directing campus protests against South African apartheid forthelastseveralyears,thtnks this spring's. activities were \definitely the biggest in terms of participation and militancy.'' Others, however, report it wasn't the same on their campuses. Participation in this year's national South Africa Day of Action was the same, or lower, than last year's levels, they say. In past years, Nessen has tried to increase student interest in apartheid by tying rallies and workshops to ac- tivities of the anti-nuclear power movement. But with rising violence in South Africa and a tremendous increase in publicity in the United States, Nessen predicted this spring's annual campus anti-apartheid protests would draw record numbers of student supporters. \It's hard to say this year is twice as big, but it's close, and it's much better coordinated and organized,'' Nessen added. Jesse Jackson, for example, drew 7 ,200 students to an anti- apartheid speech at Harvard. Many attended an all night vigil outside the administration building there. University of Wisconsin-Madison students marched on a nearby Krugerrand (gold coins marketed by the South African government) dealer. Over 600 University of Pennsylvania students protested their school's investments in- firms that do business in South Africa, while an estimated 300 students marched at Yale and an equal number staged rallies at Dartmouth and the University of Iowa, the- ACA reports. \I think because of the level of media attention, the level of activism is higher than I've seen in five years,\ says Craig Perrin of Iowa's Committee for a Free South Africa, which has 20 new members and over 70 volunteers this year. Perrin and his group staged gueriUa theater events--students dressed as soldiers patrolled campus \arresting'·' passersby with blond hair-and convinced over 2,000 students to sign petitions calling for university divestment. But Nessen's glowing assessment of this year's South Africa protests may be a little inflated, other sources report. At UCLA, for instance, where ACA officials had schedUled numerous \Day of Action\ activities, \we didn't do anything because we really haven't gotten into the quarter yet,\ reports Black Student ASsociation spokesman Aaron Boye. \Absolutely nothing happened\ at Berkeley, reports spokesman Tom Debley, despite ACA claims that ac- tivities had teaken place there. \We've gotten a lot of calls from people who heard or read that we had protests, and all I can say is that whatever it was must have fallen through,\ Debley says. And barely 100 students showed up for a rally that wa!) expe~ted to draw closer to 1,000 at the University of Colorado- Boulder, reports South Africa Awareness Conunittee member Lori Monkarsh, who blames the low attendance on cold weather. Even at Columbia, ''everyone is ·really surprised that the ac- tivity is so .small,\ says university spokeswoman J udit)l Leynse. \Aside from the 200 students at the Hamilton Hall sit-in, there's not a lot going on for a campus with 30,000 people on it.\ Despite such disap- pointments, organizers insist the campus anti-apartheid movement has had a banner year. Last month, for instance, University of Arizona protestors stopped a nearby bank from selling Krugerrands, and student pressure has forced administrators at the univer- sities of California, Washington, Nebraska, Maryland and Illinois to promise to review their investment policies. But increased attention has also meant increased conflicts on some campuses. Anti- apartheid forces at Oberlin College recently tried un- successfully to shut down the campus computer system and hold it until administrators sold $125 million in South African- tied investments. Do you want to have your name . . t? mprm . . WRITE FOR NEWS Call Jan at 382-9597 or Maureen at 6860 Outdoor Bands Permitted Student Forum member, was happy with the diversity of students involved with the connnittee. Gardner Bolster, President of West College Dorm Council, commented, \I was really impressed by the way we could cooperate with the two deans. I was really happy with the way that we worked it all out together.\ a question of banning outdoor parties. The question was could we continue to have live music and still show concern for others on campus, who may not be at that event, ail.d for local residents off campus. In developing the new policy and regulations, students have said that we can show that concern and I'm prepared to support that. I'm optimistic that it will work provided that everyone cooperates and shows con- sideration.\ Continued from page 1 scheduled or rescheduled Sunday through Thursday. 2. All necessary precautions for minimizing noise must be taken. For example, all speakers must be aimed towards the center of campus. It must be the intention of the sponsoring group to confine the music to the immediate en· virons of the event, and to take steps to insure, within reason, that the music will not be heard throughout the campus or in the hnnaediate area surrounding the campus. 3. The Security Officers are authorized to request that the music be turned down or the event may be discontinued. 4. Each sponsoring group must appoint four people (one from its own organization, two from the ad hoc committee, and one from the Student Forum) whose responsibility it will be to determine a reasonable volume level of music. It will be the duty of these four people to ensure that the noise level is reasonable. S. All sp()nsoring groups will be responsible for thoroughly cleaning affected areas im- mediately upon the completion of the event. 6. Sponsors will be responsible for notifying the Security Officers of any potential and actual problems, and vice versa. 7. All sponsoring groups shall be responsible for damage caused to College property in the immediate vicinity of the event. 8. In addition to the standard proofing procedures, spon- soring groups must designate at least two individuals whose responsibility it will be to identify unwanted guests and seek the assistance of Security Officers in removing those individuals. 9. Security may at its own discretion request any in- dividual to leave. 10. All students are responsible for the actions of their guests. 11. It is understood that the continuation of outdoor music concerts will depend on the cooperation of all participating organizations and compliance with these requirements. After each weekend's event(s), at least four members of the ad hoc committee (the sponsor of each event, two ad hoc com- mittee members, and one Student Forum member) will review the events with the Deans' office. Students' Reactions Overall, students who were involved with the committee are pleased with the party policy. _ Student Forum President Steve Benson com- mented, \I think it was im- portant that the student com- munity got together and con- structively worked out the party policy. The most important thing we had to show the ad- ministration is that we students are willing to take on respon- sibility. Now future parties depend on students fulfilling that responsibility.\ Steve Moss, Student Forum member, a,n-eed, \The fact that students must act responsibly must not be overemphasized because the success or the failure of this policy is contingent upon the students' behavior at these events.\ Benson explained that the proposal was \non- confrontational... . The ad- ministration was very willing to compromise.\ Lynne O'Brien, Dean of Students Joseph Mammola, also viewed the policy positively. He explained, \From my position it never was Southern Africa Film And lecture Series During the Spring Term, the campus is invited to attend a series of speakers and films dealing with the political crisis .in southern Africa. Both films and speakers will address the current situation in South Africa, where continued black. protest and violence has made recent headlines, Namibia and Zimbabwe. Most of the events have been scheduled over the new Minerva Con- vocation Hour, Which is on Wednesday, 11:30 to 12:30 and in Social Science 117 Confirmed Dates Aprii29--Monday, 12:30, SS117. Movie: Moving On: The Hunger for Land in Zimbabwe. May 1--Wednesday, 11:30, 55117. Duniisani S. Kumalo will speak on \Divestment: The Role of U.S. Corporations in South Africa.\ Mr. Kumalo was a journalist in South Africa. He wrote ar- ticles exposing the conditions of black migrant workers in the mines; use of child labor on farms; abuses of police power in deaths in detention. Following police harassment, he fled South Africa in June 1977. Since arriving in the U.S., he has written reports for a number of U.S. newspapers, and addressed numerous campus groups and other public forums. May 15--Wednesday, 11:30, SS117. Movie: Namibia: Africa's Last Colony. May 22--Wednesday, 11:30, SS117. Movie: Last Grave at Dimbaza, an award-winning film depicting life in a rural black homeland in South Africa. May 29--Wednesday, 11:30, SS117. Movie: You Have Struck A Rock, a film concerning South African women's protests of the 1950's against the pass laws; and South Africa Belongs to Us, a film showing the impact of apartheid on black women. June 5--Wednesday, 11:30, SS,117. A representative of the.African National congress will speak on that organization's policies and efforts to thange South Africa. June 7--Friday, 12:30, SS117. Movie: Six Days in Soweto, an award-winning production concerning the violent June 1976 riots in Soweto. Also in May, at dates to be announced, two United States congressmen, Ronald Dellums, Democrat of California, and Gerald Solomon, Republican of New Yort<, have agreed to present their views of American policy towards South Africa. Also, there is a possibility that a representative of the u.s. State Dept. will come to the campus to discuss current Reagan ad- ministration policy towards that region. These dates will be announced as early as possible. The series has been generously sponsored by the Minerva Committee, Phi Beta Kappa, Campus Ministries, and the Departments of History, Economics, and Sociology and Anthropology,

~ l l Holocaust Day Observed ••• CamPs Remembered By GREG FAY Staff A slide show on Holocaust art and a speech by Professor Berk on lessons of the Holocaust were sponsored by the Jewish Student Union in observance of Yom Hasho'ah, Holocaust Remembrance Day, on Thursday, April 19. Senior Carol Joseph, who demonstrated in her Senior Thesis that art can legitimately serve as historical documen- tation, talked about many of the slides she had used for her thesis. Joseph stated that he work \was done by victims of the Holocaust-all except · three.\ She divided the slides into several groups. The first group depicted \a journey from the ghetto into the (concentration) camp.\ Most were in black and white and all powerfully conveyed the ex- tremely grim atmosphere. For example, one slide showed three skeleton-like bodies lying on very cramped bunk beds. Another showed a naked little girl from behind, looking out from behind bars. In pointing out \the abnormal work that people did,'' Joseph particularly pointed out one picture called \Carrying Away the Dead.;' Another group of slides had as its theme the loss of identity. As Joseph stated, these pictures showed how Holocaust victims \were transformed into machines.'' other themes dealt with the relations between victim and oppressor, . religious observance of victims and the death of civilization: But Joseph commented, \To end on a more optmistic note is· 'The Will to Live\' her last' theme. A speech by Professor Berk of· the history department .followed the slide presentation. Asserted. Berk, \The inevitable question that one must ask ... is 'Is there any sense that can be made out of this?' . . . 'Are there things that one can learn from .... the greatest cataclysm. of our people?\' His answer was \of course.\ He then painted out several lessons that· can be tearned from this unmitigated evil. The ·evils of racism was the first lesson from the Holocaust that Berk mentioned. He commented that ''of ali the races the only race that would be singled out by the Nazis would be the Jews.\ Berk asserted that this meant \Jews should take the lead in purging from our language ... (racist) words.\ Berk believed that the Holocaust has taught people that society must be cared for, or else tragedies like the Great Depression might happen again, along with all the ten- sions between the races that it created. In the same vein, Berk mentioned that \increasing unemployment will rebound to the disadvantage of the Jew,\ Continued on page 5 . HOUSING LOTTERY • Co-op Interest Meeting-Apr. 30, 6:30 p.m., Fox Lounge. All members of your coop must attend. · • Distribution of lottery numbers-May 9: Seniors-6:30-8 p.m., Residence Life Office. MUST HAVEID. Sophomores-6:30-8 p.m., Davidson Lounge. MUST HAVEID. Juniors-6:30-8 p.m., Fox Lounge. MUST HAVE ID. • Co-op Lottery-May 20, 6:30p.m., Stage II-Carnegie. Must bring ID, Lottery Card. All members of co-op must attend. , • Singles Lottery-May 20, 6:30 p.m., Stage II- Carnegie. Must bring ID, Lottery Card. • Senior Lottery: Doubles & Suites-May 20~ 6:30p.m., Stage II-~arnegie. Must bring ID, Lottery Card. All roommates must attend. • Junior Lottery: Doubles & Suites-May 23,6:30 p.m., Stage II-Carnegie. Must bring ID, Lottery Card. All roommates must attend, • Sophomore Lottery-Doubles & Singles-May 28, 6:30, p.m., Stage II-Carnegie. All roonnnates must attend. * Stage II is located across from WRUC on the 3rd floor of Carnegie Hall. CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/25, 1985 lett to right) Cra·ig Worten, Gail Douglas and Gardner Bolster, enjoy a meal Restroom Proposal Made By ADAM EMERSON Contributor Because students have complained that bathrooms in residence halls are inadequately cleaned and that maids cleaning schedules conflict with student bathroom use. Sophomore Reza Mozayeni brought a proposal to the Student Mfairs Council (SAC) last week. The proposal con- sisted of five basic-suggestions: 1) Attempting to br1ng in maids during the weekend for a more thorough cleanup. 2) More attention to bathrooms during the winter when mud and snow becomes a problem on the bathroom floor. 3) Coordinating bathroom use with maid schedules to avoid morning conflicts. 4) A greater emphasis on the residents part in keeping bathrooms clean. 5) Possibility of installing soap dispensers and hot air dryers in residence halls. The greatest complaints have come from ZBT, FIJI, fourth floor South (where forty people use one bathrooll)), and other co-ed floors. Apparently students and maids find it difficult to coordinate cleaning and use of bathroom facilities. According to George Paige, Director of cleaning services at the Physical Plant, maids come in at 6:00 A.M. but he believes that they are being abused. As it stands now, maids make a daily routine of cleaning sinks, toilets, garbage cans, and replacing toilet paper. Each bathroom is \blitzed\ once a week, when the bathroom is scrubbed from the floor to the ceiling. Although the cleaning is adequate, there seems to be a lack of cooperation on the students' side, according to Paige. He commented, \I've seen girls where they dye their hair right in the showers, and then someone comes in and says it's dirty.\ In other cases, males come in and relieve themselves despite the fact that a maid is cleaning right next to them. Paige continued by saying that maids were unhappy and did not believe that they needed to be treated with this lack of respect. Director of Residence Life, Dave Wood, who presented the SAC's ideas to Paige, was positive about the outcome. Soap dispensers and hot air dryers are being considered for use on a trial basis in some residence halls. Wood was also confident that greater cooperation by fraternities in cleaning up after parties could ease the burden presently put on the maids. However, the suggestion for cleaning on weekends is still in question. According to Wood, added costs of bringing maids in on Saturdays and Sundays could pose a problem. \Levels of cost have to be reflected somewhere in the college.\ The Physical Plant will be asked to consider financing cleaning on weekends. At this point, both SAC members and the Residence Life office hope thai a reasonable compromise will be developed so as to satisfy those who clean and those who use residence bathrooms. CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS J7orestJ>reserve Symposium sponsored jointly by the Adirondack Research Center at Union College and the Adirondack Mountain Club. According to Thomas L. ment of the State's Forest Preserve 100 years ago. The symposium will include presentations on the history, problems, and future of the Forest Preserve in both the Adirondack and Catskill Mountain regions. Herman \Woody\ Cole, chairman of· the Adirondack Park Agency, will be a featured panelist at the New York State Forest Preserve Centennial Symposium to be held at Union College in Schenectady on April ••••••••••••••••••••• .. 27 and 28. The meeting is Cobb, co~chairman of the symposium with James C. Dawson, the meeting will be the first of a series of activities being planned by various organizations this year to commemorate the establish- Adirondack Park Agency Commissioners Elizabeth Thorndike and Peter S. Paine, Jr. are also on the syrnposiwn program. Among some twenty other speakers and panelists are former State Conservation Commissioner Peter A. A. Berle, former State Senate Conservation Committee Chairman Bernard C. Smith, and long-time conservationist Paul Schaefer. Room Lottery The room lottery will be conducted from May 9 to May 28. The computer will randomly assign numbers to students by class year. fhat is to say, the computer randomly assigns numbers to members of the classes of 86, 87, and 88 that live in college-owned residence halls. The computer then transl·ates the random number to a number that is understandable--one through 300-- roughly the class size each year. This will be dOne for each class si~e for each year. This will be done for each class with the exception of the incoming new students and graduating seniors. Only students living in in- dependent (non-Greek) residence halls are eligible to participate in the lottery. Members of the Residence Life Staff wi.ll distribute to eligible students a lottery card bearing the student's name, I D number, and lottery number. The student MUST present his/her I D and pick up his/herf lottery card IN PERSON. Only students presenting 1 D's Will receive a lottery card. The selection of available on·campus housing will be divided into three categories: co-ops/singles/doubles, triples and suites. There will be a meeting to explain the selection process for Co·ops on April 30. Members of the Residence Life Staff will answer questions about the co· op lottery. The remainder of the campus housing will be selected according to ~acb stuc:;lent. Singles Lottery: The senior with the lowest lottery number (#1) will have first choice of available singles. The senior with the next lowest lottery number (#2) will have the second choice. If some singles have not been selected and there are no more seniors present, the junior present with the lowest number will have first choice of the remaining singles. This process will continue until all singles have been selected or no eligible student is present to select a single. Double and Single Lottery: The lottery for doubles, triples and suites will conclude the process. The senior lottery will be held first. followed by the junior lottery, and, finally, the sophomore lottery. The class member present with the lowest lottery number will have first pick. The class member with the next lowest number, and present, will follow. When a suite or double is selected, all roommates MUST BE present and all MUST SIGN CONTRACTS. The room or suite will be placed back into the lottery if any of the roommates do not sign the contract when the room or suite is selected. All occupants of a room or suite who are found to have cheated wiU lost any right to the room or suite. Additionally, the person(s) who cheated will be fined $100. Points of interest: class standing is deter- mined by the number of credits received at the end of the winter term-·no exceptions; you must be on campus all of spring term to participate in the lottery; fou-r people must select a suite--not three or two students but four. . • ~ \' ... '\1,\' \'!lo 11 \\\\ •- .. •\~'·J ·- ·~· . .r l r . .t..\ \ ... \\'.,,. v v\ .... .,._' Further information on the meeting is available from the ADK-ARC Symposium Com- mittee, 172 Ridge Street, Qlens Falls, NY 12801. Or contact co- chairmen: Dr. James C. Dawson (518) 564-2039; (518) 643-9289; Dr. Thomas L. Cobb (518) 584-2000. Foundation Donates to Library The Schenectady Foundation recently donated a check for $4,827 to Union College's Schaffer Library for the pur- chase of materials for mathematics education. Robert Grabner, then chairman of the distribution committee for the Schenectady Foundation presented the check to President John S. Morris and Union College Professor of Mathematics William Stone .

~age4 CONCORDIENSIS, Apl·i/25, 1985 SIGMA CHI 1 S 4th Annual PUNKTill /!_ You PARTY $30 'first prize for BEST PUNK GARjB Bottle of Champagne--Second Prize Case of Beer- .. Third Prize This Saturday, April 27th PRESENTS ; Young Democrats Important Meeting Stage 2. Carnegie Hall Thursday, May 2 Please note the expiration daH~ on your club constitution. If your constitution has expired or will by June 1985, and you have not already revised and submitted it, please do so promptly. Thank You TheCoC SPRINGFEST '85 SIDEWALK SALE • clothing • flowers • food • specialty items OUTDOORS SATURDAY, APRIL 27, 10-5 BICYCLE RODEO ACT 1: Dave Provost on guitar and vocals ACT II: Chris Siler singing Competitive Rodeo Games Bike Clinic Chances to Win Free 10- Speed Live Music Shows are at 9 and 11 p.m. Thursday, April 25 Come on down and enioy an evening of entertainment!! DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY THE WORLD IS YOUR CAMPUS Study around the world, visiting Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Sri Lanka, India, Egypt, TUrkey, Greece and Spain. Our 100 day voyages sail in February and September offering 12-15 transferable hours of credit from more than 60 voyage- related courses. The S.S. UNIVERSE is an American-built ocean liner, registered in Liberia. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed. For details call toll-free (800) 854..0195 or write: Semester at Sea Institute for Shipboard Education University of Pittsburgh, 2E FOrbes Quadrangle Pittsburgh, PA 15260 Applications are still being accepted for the Fall '85 and Spring '86 semesters. 'khlcles Included In the Plan. You may choose a new 1985 ThWlderbird, LID, Tempo, Mu5tang, Escort, Bronco II or light trucks up to F-250. •J>rt-Approved Credit- Just meet three simple conditions: • You must have verifiable ment that begins within 120 days vehicle purchase at a salary sufficient ordinaty living eJq~enses and your vehicle payment • You must have prool that you have graduated or will graduate artd be awarded at least a bachelor's degree within 120 days. Your credit record, if you have one, must indi- cate payment made as agreed. • '$400 PurclJ- Allawance. Make your best deal ... use the $400 as a down payment or receive.a $400 check directly lrom Ford after the sale. Call Dennis J; Hurley, Jr. Orange Motors Company, Inc. 799 Central Avenue, Albany, N.Y. • 489-5414

• ) No. Contra Aid! The Pledge of Resistance, a national network of over 50,000 people who have signed a pledge to engage in acts of non- violent resistance if the U.S. invades, bombs, sends combat troops or otherwise significantl;y escalates its in· tervention in Central America, is on active alert. President Reagan is expected to make a nationally televised speech within the next two weeks, urging passage of $14 ;million in aid to the Contras. The first weekday following this speech, the national Pledge Network will be mobiliZed with vigils held across the U.S. at 12:30 at Congressional Field Offices. The C!ipital District network will be called to action in response to this national signal. A vigil will be held the first weekday after the President's speech at the Federal Building at 12: 30 to respond to this speech and demand an end to the covert war in Nicaragua, and express opposition to the President's \peace proposal\. The speech is expected to be filled with the same distortions and outright -lies as his past political statements. We will send our Congressional representatives a dear message that the passage of contra aid is a declaration of war against the expressed will of the U.S. people. Our representatives must heed to the expressed will of the U.S. people and vote against aid to the contras. A silent vigil will fallow until 5:30 PM. At that time a candlelight reading will take place concerning the atrocities committed by the Contras, funded by our tax dollars. Excerpts from the CIA manual will be read. Should the $14 mi:llion in aid to Nicaragua pass, the national network will fully activate the Pledge of Resistance, including civil disobedience. To date over 300 people have signed the pledge locally, including 130 for civil disobedience. NewYor.kState~ April 26th 8p.m. Page Hall Downtown SUNY Campus Western Avenue Albany John Updike American Author \Couples'' The \Rabbit\ Trilogies \The Witches of Eastwick\ Will deliver the first Herman Melville Lec-ture on the Creative Imagination \Creativity and Response\ April 30th 8p.m. Performing Arts Center SUNY Albany Campus The Maya Experience Celebration of the Maya Culture with presentations of • Ceremonial rituals • Readings • Ancient language • Puppet Theatre CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/25, 1985 FEATURES I Students Want Answers to lllegal Room Inspections By JOY RUNYON Associate Features Editor Spring Break was a long time ago, wasn't it? While we were _ relaxing on aur beaches, ski slopes, or whatever, Security, led by the fearless Barry Watkins, found it their duty to search virtually every room on the campus. It went something like this: \Yo Pierce, what are you do in' today?\ blithered Watkins. The mustard from his pastrami sandwich gushed onto his fingers, providing some tasty licking. Boy, he thought, my wife sure is packing these vittles mighty well these days. After this lunch, he thought, I could go bustin' some heads. Unfortunately, there were hardly any students on campus . . . no heads to bust. Pierce Fitzgerald, his trusty · sidekick, answered his question, \I ain't doin' nothing' today, Boss. Why?\ \Just wonderin'. What do you think we should do today?\ Pierce stopped midway into a bite of his liverwurst-and-onion sandwich. He contemplated the situation, then spoke: \We could inspect rooms. No one would know.\ \Nah countered Watkins, \there's probably something against it in those little brats' housing contracts.'' \Well . . . let's find out,\ suggested Pierce. Together, the two of them riffled through a housing contract, stuttering through multisyllabic words. No, there seemed to be nothing preventing them from sear- ching and inspecting the students' quarters. They hopped into their car, turned on the siren . . . and stopped. \Wait here for me,\ begged Pierce, ''I forgot to go to the bathroom.\ He returned fifteen minutes later, and they were off to North College. Satisfied that there were no potentially dangerous characters in the all-girls dorm, they went up and down hall after hall and opened doors quickly, guns drawn. They proceeded to enter every room and overturn every chair, bed, table, and wastebasket. They opened anything and everything that could be opened and in- spected. The last floar awaited them. As they were climbing the stairs, two noticeably Schenectady-ish men bounded past them down the stairs like bats out of West Dining. A .girl appeared at the top of the stairwell and screamed, \Stop those guys! They stole my wallet!\ Watkins and Fitzgerald, being the fearless and con· scientious men they are, stood there and snickered. Angered by their indifference, the girl sprinted off after the men. Only then did the security schleps dart off in hot pursuit. \Run- ning downstairways is a seventy-five dollar fine! Stop! Hey you, stop!! ! \ They caught up in their car with the two thieves and made a futile attempt to tackle them. Shortly after, the girl caught up and tackled both thieves in one lunge. \Hey you leave those men alone! You can't hold them,\ said Watkins. \Yeah that's right,\ agreed Fitzgerald. They pointed their six-battery flashlights at the girl and repeated themselves. \But they stole my wallet,\ the girl contested . \We didn't see them do it.\ The two guards pried the girl off the men and sent the thieves on their way. -Their duty was done. The next dorm to be searched was Davidson. The first room they checked was exactly what they were hoping to bust. There was a book of matches in a pair of pants hanging in the closet. \Look at this, Pierce,\ said Watkins, finding the matches. \These kids are firebugs! Can you imagine what could have happened if we didn't find these in time?\ Pierce Fitzgerald shook his head ruefully, then held up a fork. \I think this might possibly be stolen property from West. We'd better confi ... confi . . . take this.\ From that one room, they removed a book of matches, two \Exit'' signs Ct:tot college property, but they could use them, anyway), three forks (possibly from West), a daffodil picked from Jackson's Gar- J)HNN'\, I'M l\OI.DYOU \\\\l'e t;RUGS 1 KN•VES ~D A (iUN I~ 'tOLl~ l-OaeR! .f¥EN11UP! suRE. -a=ACR'! ~ 11\E ~\'\ ~~'E. 'IOU Mf;1' M'l LAWY~~ College Press Serv1ce dens, and a blow dryer. What a killing, thought Pierce. A week later, Pierce Fit- zgerald and Barry Watkins were no longer with us. As they were walking out of Dave Wood's office after a reprimand and Slap on the wrist, a mob of highly irate students milled around them and descended upon them like bears that had been wounded but not killed, .seeking revenge. Watkins and Fitzgerald are now long-term patients in the psychiatric ward of Ellis Hospital. No longer are they terrorizing innocent students. AUTHOR'S NOTE: The remaining security personnel should look upon this oc· currence as a friendly warning: We students are not a bunch of criminals. We need a security force to protect us and our in- terests; not a resentful police force to look for the pettiest things for which they can fine us, or prohibit our pleasure merely because they cannot find pleasure in the same things. We are not rebels to be reckoned with by big, bad, macho men with flashlights as big as their egos. Respect-and trust for authority is earned, not given because the authority wields a gun. And in the spirit of generosity and fairness, and with 20()(}-plus students as witnesses, I offer any member(s) of the security staff equal space for a rebuttal or explanation of their un- forgivable actions. Should they choose to respond in a decent fashion, equal space is guaranteed. Holocaust ... Continued from page 3 for now the Jews are \at the pinnacle of society.\ He asserted the importance of the Jewish State: \Even a small Israel in 1939 would have been a place of refuge for the Jews ... At least with the creation of the State of Israel the Jews have become a historical people.\ Berk also stated that the technology used in World War II largely \devoured the Jews.\ He therefore urged those in- volved in science and technology, to bridge the wide gap between humanism and technology. Although Berk sa.id that he could not enumerate all the lessons of the Holocaust, he ended his speech saying \By remembering, we can be sure another Hitler-like victory will never occur again.'' ATTENTION! All poets and .short story writers: The IDOL is now accepting submissions for the Spring 1985 issue. Make this a great issue, send your work to: IDOL, Box 22·56. Questions? Call Lance at 382- 9330, or Glen at 346-6665.

.\ Page6 CONCORDIENSISY Apri/25, 1985 FEATURES. ,l»,S..·\' ' \\ , . ... Colleges Raise Standards WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS)- Colleges are going to be even tougher to get into next fall, an American Council on Education (ACE) survey has found. Institutions nationwide, for the second time this decade, are moving almost in lockstep to raise their admissions stan- dards and iron \gimmick\ courses out of their curricula. \In general, colleges want to get the message to high school students to take college preparatory courses so colleges can stop teaching remedial classes,\ says Eva Galambos, co-author of a Southern Regional Education Board admissions standards study. \It's a conscious effort to improve the quality of education,\ says Paul Lingenfelter of Illinois' Board of Higher Education. ''Educators are taking a look inward for ways to improve education and reduce remediation.'' Of more than 400 colleges surveyed, 60 percent plan to upgrade entrance requirements, including standardized test scores. Not everyone favors the tougher standards, however. Raising minimum SAT scores will \be devastating to our plan for racial admission,\ insists University of North Carolina spokesman Robert Dawson. \Four years of school work gives more of a prediction of success than a three-hour examination on Saturday morning.\ The move to stiffer requirements-particularly higher test scores-comes at the precise time some schools are dropping standardized test scores as a screen for new applicants. \We felt that other factors were better predictors of future potential,\ says Elizabeth Woodcock of Bates College,. one of two Maine schools which recently stopped using SAT scores as entrance requirements. Bates and nearby Bowdoin College instead are giving more weight to students' class rankings, grades, counselor evaluations, term papers, in- class essays, types of high school courses taken and a series of three academic achievement tests. A college study found \the achievement tests (were) better predictors than the SAT and that ( a student's) class rank has always been (a) stronger (predictor) than the SAT,\ Woodcock says. Harvard wants to make the SAT admission requirement optional, and let entering fresh- men take a battery of five achievement tests. But most colleges are moving in the other direction, urging high schools to teach college- bound students what colleges will expect of them, says ACE study author Elaine El Khawas. And most colleges are sticking with the SAT. \Many schools fear to go beyand.the standardized tests,'' El-Khawas says. \The tests only predict those who will do fine the first year. Others may have only fair scores, but tremendous references and motivations.'' El-Khawas says the higher admissions standards won't keep any students out of a college they want to attend. \Students know entrance requirements beforehand,'' she says, ''and they apply where they meet requirements and have similar average scores.\ Colleges aren't likely to turn many students away, either, \Only a small number of colleges in the U.S. are very competitive,\ El-Khawas ob- serves. \Others go through . their application pool, ac- cepting a large number of those who apply.\ Both public and private schools \leave loopholes in their admissions requirements for students who don't meet the standards,\ Galambos of the Southern Regional Education Board says. · Another reason for the rising standards is that colleges no longer have to accept as many ill-prepared students as in the past. OBVIOU5LY 11! AHet beirt~ .; \1\noc.);t'o - ~ .... ~ 6_-j 51fat¥je objec.f• .fi\'\Olt\l ovfe.,. 1f'~t.e ~ the '~\~'( t)i119 c.ome~ to a ru<le ~a~enirr1 . f\1e ~,.eatvt~ .ffot'n lh~ pla~ef Z:t.'-{ .. 111. ~~ et~\ai:n~ hi IJ f'Hf01e a..nd qcJe~ ... ... a~ \'~ -n&~ \ i'tile fti . -t:olcl m~ -tt\c mo~f amaz.m~ S~OC'~. , , Cen.tral America U.S. vs. Russia WASillNGTON, D.C. (CPS)- The U.S. has entered into a different kind of conflict in Central America: a race with the Soviet Union to see which superpower can import the most numbers of college students. -- Two federal agencies have expanded dramatically the number of scholarships they're offering Central American students to come to college in the United States. Federal officials hope the Central American initiative, unveiled last month, will but-· tress U.S. foreign policy in- terests in the politically-volatile region. \ But critics worry the programs are too political, and even argue the administration is proposing to cut aid to American students at the ex- pense of increasing aid to foreign students. Nevertheless, United States Information Agency (USIA) officials soon will start recruiting 143 Central American students to study in the U.S. beginning next January. The pilot program, which will cost about $3.8 million, marks the first time the agency has recruited foreign students from a specific geographic region to come here to study. And the Agency for Inter- national Development (AID) is now selecting the first students for a crash $160 million, nine- year program designed to bring 7,000 to 8,000 Central American students to the U.S. Both ideas sprang last year from the ,National 8ipartisan Commission on Central America; chaired by former secretary of state Henry Kissinger. \Educational exchange is the most inherently positive in- strument of foreign policy,\ USIAdirector Charles Wick told a congressional panel in February. \Our objective is to support overall U.S. foreign policy in 'the region by providing an educational opportunity for future leaders.\ For years, the USIA has run two international student ex- change programs. U.S. embassy officials will choose the students i,n each country, using recom- mendations of the two exchange groups. The students' politics won't be a criterion, but Stevens notes that to qualify students must get U.S. visas; which can be denied on political grounds. Rep. Robert Carr of Michigan worries mixing politics with education can warp the educational value of the ex- change. \He's not convinced that the truly needy students will be chosen,\ says Carr staff associate Diane Blagman. While far more students study in the Soviet Union at govern- ment expense than in the U.S., when students who pay their own way are counted, more than twice as many Central American students study in the U.S., statistics indicate. WINTER CARNIVAL TEE-SHIRTS $1.50 Available at Student Activities . •• lnd i'oltl l'fl€. h:-5 P'-'rp~~e. (.rn a t»or1~) n \_' !l-, ,-.-. -~ l'l1'1 ?l•nel ;\ ~oooo ldiJIYU .. ed .• • W~ l(rrow e\et'-j.f'hi. a6dvt ~,: tel\e~- .. . tit dctn•l1&~f•*«d h\~ i b: H~j to tt'i11,.,._rm nimU'f 'Yf-7 fjcJ}~ .fllle 6~;1 1 den·~· 1-)t'low -th• lrll•t'\il'\'3 ~ 1:+~ - .k Jo i11t0 Jtl~ 6h.,e. •·• · ; wat. .,-'-j - jt'lh l l ... he t~ku me -1-o ~ ~ ,..; ~ Cl\'tlt. 'I. 1bt .;.t!J ~d J; ·flai ~ ••

ral the in- y,\ in the an for ex- be get the ex- ~eir the CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/25, 1985 NY Style Deli WATCH FOR OUR NEW OUTDOOR CAFE! NEW HOURS OpenMon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-8 p.m. Satyrdat 8a.m.-5p.m. 160 Jay St. • 382-5493 Rock-N-Roll ·Pizza P·ub Now Has: Ice Cream Cones Floats Shakes Malts And Our Ever Popular PIZZA & SUBS The deadline for applications for Terms Abroad to Greece and Spain will be May 1, 1985. Students who are interested in these programs, whicb will take place during the winter term, 1986, should get applications and information from the Terms Abroad office H U211 . The deadline for ap- plications for the winter 1986 term to Israel will be .May 15. ·The Terms Abroad office is sponsoring an Mill ICEI.ANDAIR INCLUDES All THESE EXTRAS: D Free wine with dinner, cognac after-in flight. D Free deluxe roundtrip motorcoachbetween Luxembourg and select cities in Germany, Belgium and Holland. D Reduced train fares to Switzerland .and France. D Super Saver Kemwel car rentals at $59 per week in Luxembourg. WE'RE THE 0111 Y Wll Y TD fLY TO THE BREATHTAKING BEAUTY OF ICELAIID. From a 24-hour stopover to a grand tour of two weeks or more, we have the perfect package for a visit to Iceland, Europe's most beautifully kept secret. All fares su\Jjectto change and $3.00 international departure tax. _All fares valid 4/14-618(85, except Orlando- 511-5/31185. For infonnat10n, restnctlons and reservations for all of lcelandarr slow fares, call !celandair toll-free at 1-800-223-5500. In New York C1ty 757,8585. • The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science is conduc:ting a third year review of Prof. Doug.las Wong. Any person who wishes to contribute to the department's i-n- vestigation should submit statements, either oral or in writing, to Prof. D.G. Hannay in the department. · informal information session for students who plan to travel abroad during the summer and who might like some tips on how to go about planning their trip; and how to save some money with some helpful hints. EveryTI calculator comes with one extra number. This session will take place on Monday, April 29 at 12:30-1 :30 p .. m. in the Humanities Lounge, and is geared to th·ose students not participating in a term abroad. 1-800-TI-CARES When you buy a Texas Instruments calculator you don't just buy a calculator, you buy Texas Instruments' com· mitment to guality. It's a commitment backed by a fully developed service network that includes the above toll,free number you can call' from anyplace in the United States. lf you have any applications, operations, or service questions, call us Monday thru Friday between 9 am and 4 pm CST, and we'll be glad to help. If your calculator needs repairing, we'll direct you to one of our 46 conveniently located service centers for an immediate exchange. Under warranty, it's free. If there's no center near you, we'll do it all by mail. Of course, there's just one catch. It has to be a Texas Instruments calculator. But then, if you're as smarr as we think you are, why wouldn't it he? TEXAS. INSTRUMENlS Creating useful products and services for )~lU.

PageS <llJJltOlfbirnsis Foumlrd al limon Co#leg~ /877 ------------ --~------- Women's Week Congratulations are to be extended to all those who helped make this year's Women's Week a success. The multitude of speakers, panel presentations, and performances proved interesting, informative, and especially eye-opening. The week included a wide range of artistic achievements by women including artwork, poetry, and music history. Many different disciplines were discussed, ·including engineering, politics, and history . And the special Women's Week Cabaret and Coffeehouse proved very entertaining. But even more important than the enjoyment the week offered was the newfound awareness that it seemed to generate in the role of women on campus. The presen4ttions and lectures stimulated con- versation among students as to whether or not wQmen are treated on an equal basis on campus and, if not, what can be done to change things. Because women · have only been a part of Union for 15 years, it is im- portant that the school recognize the concerns of women. Let's hope that students continue to investigate these issues that the week has brought to life now that Women's Week has come to a close. Applause! Applause! Ah, once again. That ever-popular topic-PARTY POLICY-will be addressed yet one more time. However, at this time, no criticism will be dealt out. Rather, commendations are in order here. The first applause goes out to the administration. At a school such as Union, it is refreshing to know that the ''smallness'' we are paying for really exists. This is a prime. example of ''the small school at- mosphere;'' that which is so impressed upon us in our interview as prospective students; that which some of us tend to forget as we progress through our college careers. Perhaps we do get a little cynical in our attitudes. Our voices were not only heard but respected. Another round of applause is deserved by those students serving on the ad hoc committee which developed the new policy. HOORAH! At last we can see that student apathy at Union is not as rampant as some claim it to be. Of course, the committee members are indeed those who were immediately affected by the old policy. But even if members were only there for selfish reasons, it is still nice to know that ''when the going gets tough, the tough get going!\ At least now we know that students will speak out when it's to further a cause. And at last we've seen some new active faces. We have also seen that seemingly disparate members of the student body can pull together and construct an efficient and ef- fective way to please all concerned parties. Now that we know that we can work together, maybe this \Unionization\ of students will happen more frequently. We all now have a melodious spring term to look forward to. Tra la la. Concordiensis Needs: Writers, photographers, artists and poets. Submit your name, box number and phone number to Concordiensis, Box 2577. All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 5:00 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed, but names will be withheld upon request. CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/25, 1985 LETTERS Response to God's Criticism To the Editor: After reading Joel Musicant's letter in the April 18 issue of Concordiensis (God Should 'be Censored), I feel compelled to voice my opposition to his argument. I fully support the production of Woody Allen's God and eagerly await the f.irst per- formance. I have read the play and I find it entertaining and amusing. It disturbs me that someone would want to prohibit the production. In his letter, Mr. Musicant argued that the play denies one the right \to hold an individual, unique and private view of God.\ I challenge him to prove how this could possibly be. The play in no way infringes on anyone's rights. It merely serves as a way for the author to raise questions he feels need to be raised, as is his con- stitutional right. The First Amendment guarantees the right of every American to express his opinions on any subject, inCluding the existence of God. If Mr. Musicant findsthe. play offensive, he should not attend. He has no authority to appoint himself the Union College censor. I deeply resent that he sees -fit to tell the Union com- munity what issues it may or may not explore. Michael Garrett Class of 1987 April22, 1985 Burn Some Books To the Editor: Re: Joel Musicant's Letter to the Editor, April 18, 1985. Certainly he has every right to use up space in Concordy by telling us his veiwpoint on the play God -- that's his prerogative as dictated by the Bill of Rights (not the Con~ stitution, as Musicant states). Since he was given this right, it also stands to reason that the cast and production staff of God should be given. the same right to put on whatever play they deem appropriate. If we follow Musicant's suggestion to nix the play because it presents a hwnorous point of view, then why not carry the issue out to its fullest extent? Let's ban A Clockwork Orange from the campus. And what about The Creature from the Black Lagoon? I think it's stated in the Constitution that no one is allowed to show a movie that biases one's unique and private view of monsters. (Shame, shame, shame on the Film Committee! You people are sick! ! !) To further address Musicant's argwnents against God: First of all, a group of 18- to 22-year-olds should indeed raise questions such as God presents. It is simply another point of view for people to ponder. People are free to pick and choose what plays they want to see, and what fits into their personal, unique, and private philosophies. It is an insult to say that we are unable to watch a play without ·ap- plying to our personal lives. This is an entertain{Ilent, not a weekend at a Moonie Camp. Furthermore, sex: IS a comic book for some people. other people Who may be offended can choose notto watch the play, or may simply laugh it off and shrug. It's not for Musicant to define what is and is not tasteful sex, except in his own bedroom. In addition, I don't think anybody really cares how severely diminished is Musicant's belief in the In- tegrity of theatre, except for Musicant himself. In the world of wet .blankets, he is a sopping- wet, down comforter. I wish Musicant would stop writing letters to the editor and go burn some books-! hear Catcher in the. Rve i~ DISGUSTING! ! Joy~unyon Class of 1988 God Created Woody_ Allen To the Editor: In response to the letter to the editor of April18, 1985, entitled \God Should Be Censored,\ we make the following statement: \God should not be censored. A censorship of our theatrical work would set a dangerous precedent not only on this campus and in our community, but in a much larger sense as well. A censorship and con- demnation of our production will have a lasting and far reaching impact on something far more impartant than our school. We're talking major implications for American ideals, values, norms of behavior and traditions. WE;re talking about the disruption of • our American political culture- and that's not something we take lightly. If \God\ is censored on the campuse are we not, in effect, censoring the cast, directors, and production crew of the play itself? And, could it not be argued that this cast, directot·s and production crew do, because of their high level of public visability, represent the Union College student body as a whole? To quote President John - Morris, \The students are the , college--its lifeblood, its strengths, and its potential. 1 ' So in easily seen transitive logic, isn't a censorship of the student body really a censorship- of the College as a whole? And surely a censorship of Union College mandates a censorship of its educational peers. Not only does a censorship of Union, Harvard, Yale, Brown, Stan- ford and MIT represent a condemnation of the elite and very best educational system of this representative democracy that we call America, it rocks the very foundations upon which this country was founded. To quote one of John Belushi's friends in \Animal House \ \If ' ' you censor the educational system .of .America, are you not ~ \\ ... . . - - . \ . ~ degrading, demoralizing and bad-mouthing the United States of America itself?\ We think so, we really do. However, this is where we part from Belushi-like antics. For as his friends left the trial, we remain in the Nott. As his friends, we learn lines, block outlets for more social par- scenes and try to make our production as professional as it can be. \God\ will not be censored, and \God'; will light up the Nott beginning May 9 (Parents Weekend). Oh yeah, the stUff in last week's letter about sex, religion and the existence of God being presented in the play-it's true. But, it's funny as hell. After all, God has a sense of humor ... he. created Woody Allen. The Directors, Cast, and Production Crew of\God\ - A t! 1

CONCORDJENSIS, April25, 1985 Junior Social Functi:on · · Attention: Junior Class Couldn't Union provide the outlets for more social par- ticipation making for a mol;'e well integrated Junior Class? As your representatives we believe the answer to this question is indeed yes. Toward$ achieving this goal a questioDJlaire was mailed last term to all Juniors regarding a social function for th.e winter term. The questionnaire simply asi,{ed whether you would prefer a pub night, a dance, a break- fast, or some other activity-as a Junior function. Surprisingly, only 30 out of approximately 500 students responded. We do not wish to believe that this response was due tQ apathy. We do not and cannot believe that the Junior class is unin- terested in a social function and totally uncooperative. Perhaps you were meaning to drop the questionnaire into the inter- campus mai:l aftel;' giving it somelong and hard thought and simply put it off, until you forgot. Or perhaps you didn't notice the qiiestioiinal.re or even read it as you often don't have time to read \junk\ mail. Whatever the cause, we do believe that for the most part a Junior function would please the Junior class and help im- prove the quality of life at our college. Lack of funding, however, prevents us from having an \all-out\ lavish dance or banquet. With your best in:. terests in mind, we_ propose that a Pub night and-or a Rafters night be held specifically for the Junior Class· this term. . We would greatly appreciate input from you, the Junior Class as we recognize that the best way to represent you is to listen to all of your ideas. If you are not already aware, the Student Forum meetings are held Monday nights at 9:00p.m., 4th floor Carnegie. We can make a better Union. Let's do it together! Sincerely, Beth Bern.ell Chris Siler Dave Marin Psych- Conference Successful To the Editor: I would like to publically acknowledge and thank Dr. Jack Lipton and the students who helped organize, or- chestrate and participate in the New York Undergraduate Psychology Conference held at Union College this past weekend. This event drew over 250 people from New York and neighboring states. At one point I had the opportunity to visit with several faculty people from other colleges who had been to all .of the previous events, and they stated em- phaticallythat this was the very best conference they had ever seen. One even said that she hoped that Union could host it permanently. Although some members of our administration were initially reluctant to help with the financial support of the event, its obvious success should be ample evidence of a good investment. Thus, thanks also belong to the College staff and administration who sup- ported and facilitated all of the activities, and to the many students who shared rooms and helped give Union the justified image of a friendly, supportive, and intellectually active place. Good jQb and well done to you all. Sincerely, RudyV. Nydegger, Ph.D. Associate Professor A,nything ·b~thering you? Make .yourself heard! Write a leHer to the editor Congratulations to This Year's Orientation Advisors Debbie Albert Richard Allen Richard Bartosch Betsy Boutswell Robin Bram Mark Burton Sarah Calderini Helene Caspe Brian Chabot Beth Churchill Maureen Coleman Evan Collins Amy Dannin Tony DeMartino Keith Donahue John Donnelly Claudia Dudack Jacquie Dunbar Don Eaton . William Ennist Traci Farber Jim Farr Bonnie Faulkne.r Mark Feldstein Maria Fisher Lisa Galati Peter Goldstein Sean Griffen Dave Hannifan lise Jenouri Lisa Kaplan Scott Klares Ingrid Koch Steve Konilan Andree Lebel Robin Li!igh Carol Levy John Madei Kat& McCormack Thomas Muzzonigro Scott Newman Timothy O'Leary Deborah Oplinger Judy Price Erica Rauscher Michael Rohan Amy Rosenkrantz: Eric Scardina Jennifer Scully laura Shapiro Ellen Slipp lauren Sobel Barrie Stahl Bruce Szymanski Kathy Taylor Jennifer Thompson Chari Topol Susan Witkoff John Wyatt Charles Young 1985 Hunger W alkathon The walkathon will take place on Sunday, May 5. If you are interested in participating, please contact Sr. Joan at 370.:6087. The ten kilometer walk starts at Linton High School at 1:00 p.m. Twenty-five percent will go to: Crop, Catholic Family and Community Services, The Schenectady Inner City Ministry Emergency Food Program and Concerned. for the Hungry. If you can't walk, please sponsor a walker to Help the Hungry. A sign-up :table will be in Carnegie tlie week of May 29th. Page9 n LETTERS College Draws the Line To the Editor: The administration's latest ruling which bans the bands from :Union's land is a step toward the ultimate pursuit of excellence here at Uni.on College. Why not also ban beer quaffing and sun bathing? After all, it is better late than never that the College draws the line between spring break and the spring tri-mester! Respectfully Submitted, JohnW.Carl More, on Woodstock To the Editor: A reception took place in Hale House this past Sunday evening, and its live and loud music could be heard across the campus. The Writing Center, in particular, was bombarded with the clamor. By allowing this musical event, the ad- ministration disrupted the academic atmosphere of the campus, and broke its own rule on live music. Since the live music parties in the spring do not earn money for the school, and the reception did, the ad- ministration may feel it has just cause. The facts, however, remain: the doors of Hale were open, tqus qualifying the event as quasi-outdoor, the music was live, and could be heard outside of Hale. The rule: \an outdoor event with music on the campus will have to restrict such music to recorded music only and will have to insure that the music is confined to the immediate environs of the event. . . \ Would security have allowed the same event in Hale House if it was student-sponsored? The administration should be reminded that Union College is not Woodstock. Sincerely yours, DavidBeal Rally! Petition! To the Editor: We were up in arms! Rally! Petition! No way we're going to take this party policy!!! But, working constructively, we found that the \administration\ had their qoors and ears open to our concerns. Now, let's look at bit past the gates of Union College. Let's look at a certain administration in Washington D.C. A certain administration which is looking to change the accessibility and limit the choices of higher education throughout our nation. A certain ad- ministration which is looking to threaten the beauty of the American Dream of everyone being capable of climbing that ladder, by putting caps and limits on higher education aid for the needy. An ad- miniStration which does ilot have their doors and ears open to our concerns on this issue. Are we up in anns'? Are there cries of 'Rally!' and 'Petition!?. Think about it. Sincerely, Steve Benson SOPHOMORES: Win a full scholarship, all tuition, room and board paid, to spend your Junior Year at The University of St. Andrews, Scotland. . It's easy to app.ly, just write a 3-5 page essay describing one of your most educational ex- periences. Applications are due Wednesday, May 8th. To learn more about St. Andrews and the Union-St. Andrews exchange program, plan to attend an introductory meeting on Tuesday, April 30, at 7:30 p.m. in conference room A, Carnegie Hall, (third floor), or see Professor Klein in SS123. (X6056) JUNIORS: It's Not Too Early To Begin Thinking Watson What's WATSON? Just ask this year's .winner¥ Liesel Golden, who is busy deciding how to spend $10,000 in travel. Her proposal is to travel to Sweden and Israel to investigate the changing roles of women in the military. Liesel is one. of seventy students from sixty small liberal arts colleges selected for ,a 1985-86 Watson Travelling Fellowship. Applications are due EARLY next Fall Term, and all that is required is a little desire, imagination, and a 4·5 page essay. For $1 0,000 and a year of travel, it's worth it! Watch for notice of an informational meeting, later this term. If you can't wait, see Professor Klein in 55123 {X6056).

., Page 10 FELLOWSHIPS Fellowships (More in formation available in Careet Development Center). The American-Scandinavian Foundation offers long term training assignments in the Nordic countries. The positions are in fields such as banking, computer science and agriculture, among others. Applicants should be American, between the ages of 21 and 35, finished a formal education, have some professional ex- perience in the specified field, and have a working knowledge of the language. CLUB NEWS Newman Folk Group-Sunday evenings at 6:30 p.m. All singers and musicians meet with Friar Paul to prepare for the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members welcome. Newman Meeting and Social- Monday, April29 at 8 p.m., 4th floor Lounge, Carnegie. Sister Mary Evangelist, a native of St. John's will speak on Religious Life. Prayer-Scripture Group·· Wednesday, May 1 at 11:30 a.m. with Sr. Joan in 4th floor Lounge, Carnegie. Confirmation Classes-We- dnesdays at 1:30 p.m. in Sr. Joan's Office, 4th floor, Car- negie. Tutorial Program-Any Union students interested in tutoring one hour a week at St. John the Evangelist School please contact Liz Karazim, 37<H3774. Anyone who wishes to walk in the 1985 Hunger Walkathon, Sunday, May 5 please call Sr. Joan 370-6087. A ten kilometer walk' starts at Linton High Student Workers Needed For ReUnion Weekend Students who would like to work during ReUnion Weekend (June 14 and 15), please stop by the Alumni Office or call Mary at 6168. Workers will he paid $3.35 per hour. A mandatory meeting of all student workers will he held on Wednesday, May 15 at 4:30p.m. in the Banquet Room. Kites Ed Levin Jewelry Enamel Jewelry Graduation Cards 16 Jay St. Schenectady, NY 12305 Phone 518·374-2803 CONCORDIENSIS,April25, 1985 School at 1 p.m. 25 percent will go to each of the following agencies: Crop, Catholic Family and Community Ser- vices, the Schenectady Inner City Ministry Emergency Food Program and Concerned for the Hungry. Walkers will be looking for sponsors. If y~u can't walk please plan to sponsor a walker to help the hungry. A signup table will be in Carnegie the week of April 29th. CHEMISTRY CLUB ELECTIONS will be held Monday April 29 at 7:30 p.m. in the chemistry library (S330). Nominations will be open until the election .. ~ominations will be accepted for the posts of president, vice-president and secretary-treasurer. All members, including seniors, may vote. HELP WANTED The film committee presents on 4-26-28 \Brother From Another Planet\ at 7, 9, 11 and on 4-30 \Murder by Death\ at 7, 9, 11. CLASSIHEDS . The Mathematics Depart- ment is conducting a third-:year review of Professor Karl Zimmermann. Persons wishing to m~ke contributions to this review should contact T.A. Bick, BaHey Hall 200, extension 6160. For Sale: Ten ... speed women's bicycle. $35, '76 Nova $950 and '73 Honda $850. C~ll Rudy Nydegger; 370-4703. Part-time gymnastics in- structor needed for ages 6-14. Tuesday and Thursday 3:30 - 5:30. Starting April30 thru June 30. Call Karen Wytrwal Nydegger, 37o-4703. APARTMENT available for summer! Very good condition .... modern bath and kitchen. One ·block from campus. Good rent. Good deal! Call377-8991. NOW! Anyone interested in par- ticipating in .22 rifle matches or practice shoots at local gun club, call Jim 355-1277. Contract bridge player (novice but enthusiastic) seeks partners for weekly games. Call Jim 355-1277. Golf Bag'--Durabilt, color brown. Tubes included. $25.00. Contact Prof. Hogle x6347. For Sale: Ladies golf shoes, size 5, $25. Ladies bowling shoes, size 5, $20. Contact Jack Hogle at 6347. Fitzhugh Ludlow Day May 17, 1985 BaHie of the Bands If interested contact Jacquie Dunbar x6663 FRESHMAN fR£SHI'Ill\rJ JvST s-rA.R-rt:t) l-115 1 H€1.-'- t..JEfk - 1-\£ 5 ~EAJ-LY' y(M1 - J: I Nff.V()US. -ror..t:l f-ltj\1\ I T A~()j MttJE. :t: W l't~ Loc.k£D IN 1'1 c. L.OS(T kJ 1 -n-\ S kE GoS I A:tlD I-lAO TO FINISH ;Hrt'\ • -ni£N WE. HI\D -ro GI-/Utr go1T~ S 0 F TEQUILA! --r PERSONALS Fraroriety members DF, DR, and JS: Happy Birthday! - The.siblings . Fraroriety--not a small Italian sports car. Birthday Girl (Tomorrow): CONGRATULATIONS! Most people would get twenty-one pinches. Do you get twenty:-ane . pitchers? Delta' Gamma Olympics are coming! Get your teams together now! Ode to MCA:T's They Never are finished, so much more to do, There's always the sections we have yet to review, But when they are over, and captivity's through, It's bye~bye to \Stanley Let's head for the brew!! AL-Here it is! Your second personal (in just 2 weeks)! Good luck on Saturday ... and when are- we going to the Ground Round again? Who is Saaandy? And why is everyone baaad with him? 11 Get psyched for the all caampus sleep-out. Look out for details. Hey CP, Hope you're looking. l had a really nice time-what a- party? Don't forget that overdue book. NK Al-Good luck on Saturday. Love, Me. Jenny...Good luck on Satur- day--we'll be \pulling\ for you! ! Love-your eight Congratulations to the new SDT sisters! Love, the old sisters. J-So my friends hate you ... Isn't that excuse enough for me too?? (Who ever told you personals were meant for flattery?! ) Love, me To an those amazingly bronzed people from Mexico: \Arriba abajo, a centro, a dentro ... Salud, dinero, y AMOR.\ Love you all, Brooke To the Slime Woman, The ghostbusters are going to get you in the Sig Chi showers with your fly down. Watch out for flying bottles from the man with co~d feet. Good luck on the M-Craps! \The Danger Zones\ Lisa, OREE, OREE, OREO ... A WHOLE half-gallon? Can we just discuss the fact that it was 1 o'clock in the morning and we were the only ones on the court? Lots of love, John McEncheese Bang said Max Union College come watch the crew team race against Albany State today and against Hamilton, Hobart, and Colby on Saturday. We launch from the Mohawk near Freeman's Bridge--come show your sup- port for Union's rowers. -A Fan Ski Trip To Tuckerman's Ravine Leaving Fridqy April 26 at 12:30 Plan to hike and ski Saturday and Sunday and to return to campus Sunday night. Weather dependent. Own equipment required. If Interested Call Kent Avery 6545 or 8613 Organixational meeting on Thurs •• Apr. 21 at 7:00. in Davidson lounge ·n-1e;: t-J P\ t-t- 11-1 E. PLWG£-S HI\!) -r-o B:tfff ~fta/ 01i1£R ll P! T t.JOIAJ f T y~AH- tT WI'IS 11 fRETiY I (,oOf) TlfYif. • I

Saturday. on Satur- for ~ight to the new the old ends hate enough told you meant for amazingly Mexico: centro, a dinero, y all, l3rooke are going to Chi showers Watch out the man luck on the Zones\ OREE, half-gallon? ~ the fact that the morning only ones on love, John watch the ~ainst Albany against and Colby on from the Freeman's ~w yeur sup- -A Fan and to Weather on -IT Wl'iS I liM f. • \ !! ! CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/25, 1985 P~ell THE ARTS U2 on Tour A Band That Matters By TOD DIMMICK Staff Every band claims to be something special, something different. To find a .band tbat actually lives up to the claim is unusual. Surely, though, U2 is such a group. What is so special about U2? Why, when they have few well known songs, do their tickets sell out within hours? This band from Ireland has received enthusiastic acclaim in their first United States tour. To understand U2 and their lightning ascent in the music world, one must see something beyond their showmanship and music. Their success is not a result of any sleight of hand on stage, but the result of a deep and driving desire to convey.a message to the world. The energy and life that U2 has put into this message is what captures the hearts and ears of an ever growing number of fans·. The message is peace. U2 has a reason for existence that goes beyond making pleasing noises to a crowd. As a group of young men from war- torn Dublin, every song exposes their experiences like raw nerves. Their pain and the in- tensity of their desire for peace is real because they have lived in war and hatred for much of their lives. The feeling is ob- vious in part of a song: \There's many lost, but tell me Who has won? /The trenches dug within our hearts,/ And mothers' children, brothers, .sisters torn apart/Sunday, bloody Sunday.'' Every song is filled with such emotion. Coming to the United States, U2 faces the assembled multitude of American musicians for competition. Compared to the groups in this country, U2 has rocketed to fame. Is the reason for this success to be found in their past? I think so. For the group, their music is a tool to help them to achieve their end. It is not the end in itself. Those Who hear U2 feel the intensity and emotion that may be missing in the music of groups that draw only from sound and not from life. The lyrics; powerful and blunt, tell of the emotional rape one experiences when one's country is torn apart by religious and racial differences. From this experience does not come a desire for revenge, but for healing. During one concert. Bono, the lead singer, dedicated songs in such a spirit: \This song is . written about my country, and about your country, and maybe someday it'll be the same country. We are not a band from aRy country, we are a band for everybody.'' During another concert, someone threw Bono an Irish flag. Upon throwing it back, two fans started to struggle over it. \Tbere they go again-:fighting over a stupid .flag,\ he Said. An apparent Bono tradition also involves the Irish flag. Tearing the flag into three pieces, Bono throws away the green and the orange, and keeps the white to wave as a new flag. If all of this seems a little too heavy in symbolism for the average concert audience, think again. For no matter what the environment is, people like to be dealt with honestly. Bono and U2 show exactly what they are saying in their songs, and their intensity is irresistable. These chartacteristics were all expressed when U2 played in Worcester last week. Bono immediately established a close rapport with the crowd with notable actions as bringing a young woman on stage and singing while dancing with her. What did she think? \I prayed that that would happen,\ she said. after the show. At another time, Bono asked if anybody knew how to play the guitar. A fan climbed up onto the stage with 20,000 eyes on him. He was taught the chords. He played, slowly, then faster, and sud- denly the band was jamming with him. The crowd roared. Photos Displayed A portfolio of work by con- temporary photographer Ralph Gibson will be on view in the Burns Student Forwn and East Wing of the Union College Arts Building through June 16th. This portfolio~ titled \Chiaroscuro was recently donated to Union by Edward A. Shapiro, Class of 1962. This set of 15 silver prints exemplify aspects of chiaroscuro, a method in the visual arts in which dramatic treatment of light and shade create illusion in depth. Ralph Gibson is a native of California, born in 1939. He was educated at Notre Dame High School in North Hollywood, and studied photography in the U.S. Navy and the San Francisco Art Institute. He worked as an assistant to Dorothea Lange in. 1961-62, and to- Robert Frank, 1967-69. He received the Think Before You Act Don't Drink' & Drive National Endowment for the Arts Photography Fellowship in 1973 and 1975, CAPS of New York State Grant, 1977, and DAAD Exchange Fellowship, Berlin, in 1975. Gibson characteristically works in series in an endeavor to amplify the organization and consequent force of his images. His distinctive structure is often dependent on the isolation of parts in analogy to the whole. His figures appear as fragments, and emphasize the framing and periphery of the shote. Aesthetically, his prints embody intensely saturated blacks, maximizing the con- trast of the image, deliberately sacrificing the rich, tonal scale available to photography. The Union College Arts Building hours are Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 8 p;m. Photographers Needed Submit name and phone number to Box 2577 From moving in unison to the music to singing, the crowd was totally responsive to the per- formance. As Bono sang the final song, \40 with a young child on his shoulders, one thing became very clear: Bono likes people. U2 likes people. This is why U2 and its message are so successful. The group and their emotions are real, and we who watched were merely responding to the feeling. As thousands of people poured out of the Centrwn, all singing \How long must we sing this song,'' one could · see the profound effect U2 had made. As Bono said at the end: \Thank you for everything. Thank you for the last 5 or 6 years. We began then, and I don't think we're ending now.\ One has to agree. General By KIMBERLY HANCOCK Staff What could be more enjoyable after a day of basking in the hot almost sunrmer-like sun, than kicking off one's shoes and dancing to live, upbeat reggae? Nothing I could think of could have finished off the first truly gorgeous day of the season better than seeing General Publie perform at SUNY Albany last Sunday. Although they have not yet gained tremendous popular acclaim, General Public's performers are certainly not newcomers to the music business. After the tragic break-up of English Beat in 1983, Dave Wakeling and Ranking Roger joined with former Clash guitarist Mick Jones, Micky Billingham and Stoker (both formerly of Dexy's Midnight Runners) and Horace Panter to form the up-and- coming General Public. The concert, scheduled to start at 8 o'clock was invariably delayed and the concert-goers forced to wait outside the gym and enjoy the beautiful spring evening. A considerable nwnber of Union students were seen among those clad in t- shirts and shorts leisurely awaiting the start of the sho'W. When one finally entered the gym, almost three quarters of it was covered with a large dance floor and the rest was adorned with bleachers. It was refreshing to have enough room to move around without being trampled by hysterical music fanatics. Unfortunately, the opening band \that came all the way from California\ .to open for General Public shouldn't have bothered to make the cross- country trek because what they perfonned could be considered the eJ2itome of noise. Altho~J:gh the gy'm wasn't designed with acoustics in mind, even Car- <II .s N \' Ol \' ~ \0 <:: \' 0 ... 4; ~ 0 >- \' ~ ... \ 0 u ' = '§ \' .!!! <:: <:: OJ a. >- .0 0 0 .c c. From L toR- U2 is: L<~rry Mullen, Jr_, Adam Clayton, Bono, The Edge. Public On Stage negie Hall couldn't have made Charlie Peacock and his band an enjoyable listening ex- perience! The one song that stuck in mind (for whatever reason) went something like this, \I want General . . . (Peacock violently threw his arm up in the air -eausing his mop of hair to completely disarray itself) I want General . . . I want General . . . I want General . . . Public.\ Perhaps the song exemplifies the mentality and originality of the band-I couldn't tell because the guitars and drums were. so misbalanced that the lyr1cs were indistinguishable. 1500 Fans Roared When General Public finally took to the stage, the ap- proximately 1500 fans roared in anticipation of some good music. Opening number \Never You Done That\ prompted floor occupants to begin their hour and a half of non-stop dancing. Although General Public did perform some Beat tunes, the majority of their songs came from their only album to date, All the Rage. \As a Matter of Fact,\ \Are You Leading Me On?'' \Day to Day,\ \Where's the Line?\ \Hot Your Cool,\ and \Anxious\ (which seemed rather slow performed live) were the integral portion of the show. The concert ended with '' Tender.ness,'' General Public's most well-known tune (perhaps the only tune about half the concert-goers, who poured from the stands upon its announcement, had ever heard.) The crowd, psyched up from the concert's energy, clapped and yelled until General Public reappeared to perform two encores. The second encore, which consisted of two new General Public songs, seemed to lack the upbeat danceability characteristic to the group. The first encore, which consistered of a song sharing the group's name-''General -Public'' and \Burning Bright,\ was full of the energy one has come to expect from the group. General Public's lyrics, quite in contrast with the strong political messages expressed through existing Beat tunes, operate on a personal and political basis. Most of the songs have double meanings as exemplified in ''Burning Bright.\ The flame in the song could be representative of two things, either the flame of ina ternational solidarity or that of a nuclear Armageddon. The \Where's the Line\ lyric, \Where's the Line between Black and White?\ was ex- pressed by Wakeling and Roger indicating each other as they sang, but in the song's context it can take on an entirely different meaning. Tremendous Performers General Public's appeal is not solely their music-Wakeling and Roger are tremendous performers. They didn't need fireworks, smoke exploding guitars or similar gimmicks to entert;:1in their followrs-other than their trademark eyes (which appeared on the stage's backdrop) nothing filled the stage but the members of the group. · Another of the unique features of General Public is the manner in which the songs evolve. No one person develops a song, each member takes their basic suggested part and changes it to conform to their individual style and then blend it with the others to keep a balance. There is also a lot of direct honest communication within the group. Hopefully this will contribute to the longevity of the band. Gneral Public performed a superb concert and although the gym wasn't packed, it afforded an excellent opportunity for all to dance the night away. PAISA MIS£R 163 Jar.. St., S~;h'dJ -India lmDorfs- 311-1913 ----=B;:,:ring in coupo • ---~ Complete Boutique Dresses, Skirts, Tops, Pants, Brass Gifts Jewelry, Wicker, Guts, Etc., Etc. Open Mon.-Fri. 10:00-6:00 p.m. • Thurs. 10·:00 a.m.-9:00p.m. . AI t' A . E ss . ----, PERSONAl CHECKS· ACCEPTED lAY·AWAY•Wewollhol<iyouo ,,.-,..., 1 llll·· · •: Pu1<hose wolh a 1moll d•po11t L-. ~ . , , I .. - ··-·- -- ---- , ... L ., . -

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/25, 1985 THE ARTS David Copperfield at Proctor's . . . Magic Mixed With Style By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Editor He's twenty-eight, and David Copperfield is not his real name. \It's Magic Johnson,'' he explained, \but I had to change it for professional reasons.\ That's how David Copperfield opened his show, stating that his age and the legitimacy of his name are \magical questions number one and two,\ most often asked him by admirers. He then launched into over an hour and a half of entertaining magic and good-humored joking as he brought The Magic of· David Copperfield to Proc- tors last week for two per- formances. and impressive. As a child, he was performing professionally· at the age of twelve, when he became the youngest person ever admitted to the Society of American Magicians. By six- teen, he was teaching his own college course in . magic to students at N.Y.U. He has appeared (and disappeared) on television many times, making the .Statue of Liberty vanish in front of a large crowd, and doing the same thing with a Lear jet (a videotape of the latter was shown during his show last week). Such tricks have earned him the titles of Enterta.iner of the Year from the American Guild of Variety Artists and Magician of the Year from the Academy of Magical Arts. jaked with them--and sometimes at them-and used several audience volunteers to aid him in his magic. When one girl came up onstage to be levitated (it was one of. the most spectacular tricks performed) he reprimanded her for chewing gum and asked, \Did you bring enough for everyone?\ When she replied that she hadn't, he held out his hand, she put the gum in it-and he popped it into his mouth, soothing the au.dience's moans of disgust by explaining, ''It still has some flavor.\ Despite his young age, Copperfield's credentials as a David Copperfield floated a friend as he brought his show to professional magician are long Procter's Theater last week. Like many great magicians, Copperfield is a ham at heart. Not content to merely present bis illusions in a straight- forward fashion, he often constructs detailed sets and melodramatic scenes to encase them. For example, in one segment last Tuesday, the lights arose on a set decorated to be Copperfield's attic. He starts out rummaging through the clutter of memorabilia- mostly left over from his boyhood days.as Davino the Boy Magician-when a girl from his past suddenly appears. Cop- · perfield performs some tricks for her and they smile and flirt, but the bit ends on a sad note, as his love disappears as quickly as she came. The whole scene is done without words, but is synchronized pel'fectly to Barry Manilow's \Weekend in New England'', which was played throughout. Corny? Definitely, but corny in a way that only seemed to endear him more to the audience without making him seem tacky or insincere. He presented several other illusions in like manners-a Fifties-style rock radio trick, a young couple parting, then reuniting at a restaurant, etc.- and each one combined provocative magic with glitzy showmanship. That was the_ kind of show it was--heavy on style and presentation, a little lighter on serious magic. Certainly there was an ample supply of awe- inspiring illusions (i.e., ones that I couldn't figure out). Chief among these were levitation acts and disappearing people, especiaay one which involved a small boy from the audience. But when large sections of the show revolve around a pet duck named Webster, who waddles onto the stage wearing a bow-tie and lip-synchs (or bill-synchs, as the case may be) to pre- taped quacks, you know . the magician is at least as con- cerned with presence and showmanship as he is with the magic itself. Women's Night At Cabaret By DEBBIE ALBERT Arts Editor The Cabaret room for the 9 o'clock show began to fill up, and the crowd for the Woman's Week Cabaret was in for a good time. Senior Marcy Wilder was the Master of Ceremonies and humored many women's issues, such as \burning of the bra.\ It was nice to hear many laughing voices at the early show. Marcy also took notice of the few men in the audience and asked them to listen closely and realize where women stand in this world. After the laughing and joke period, the first act was introduced. LeAta Jackson is a freshman pianist and she displayed her musical talents at the Cabaret. Since the Cabaret had a theme, LeAta adopted the theme of playing theme songs from T.V. shows and movies. To list a few: Hill Street Blues, Nadia's Theme, Love Story and the highlight-Memories, with the wonderful vocal talents of Marcy Wilder. Marcy sang this ballad, copying Gilda Radner's funny version. Then, to bring back some seriousness to the show, the first vocal performer hit the stage. Fre$hman Anne Carl was accompanied by Junior Janice Thompson on the piano. Anne's beautiful soprano voice and Janice's wonderful piano playing set a calm and relaxed mood in the Cabaret room. Anne sang some popular music and proved herself with \Songbird\ by Fleetwood Mac. It is nice to see new talent at Union and Cabaret hopes to see LeAta and Anne back soon. Following their performances was the intermission and then more entertaining vocalists. Julie Wildman who graduated in '84, also accompanied by Janice, opened up the second half of the show with more nice, relaxing music. She sang hits from Billy Joel, Lionel Richie and Madonna's new \Crazy For You\. It was nice th have an Old Cabaret performer back for the Woman's Week Cabaret. That's dedication. The last act was a tribute to some 1940's music by Cole Porter and Ethel Merman, to cite a few. Senior Jennifer Paston came to the stage with a black glittery top and a feather boa and dazzled the crowd with her wonderful stage presence · and powerful. voice. Her final song was from a later time period, and it brought together the audience. Jennifer wrote the Soprano to Sing Soprano Corine Salon will present a recital with pianist Juana Zayas and guitarist Joan Mull Sunday, April 28, at 7:30 p.m. at the Union College Memorial Chapel. Tickets are $3 at the door and a reception will follow. The program wlll include songs and arias by Mozart, Hayden, Strauss, Villa Lobos, Turina, Almeida and Lee Hoiby among others. Salon earned an M.F.A. in music at Carnegie-Mellon University. She has appeared with the Pittsburgh Opera, Barga Opera in Italy, Penn- sylvania Opera Festival, Bel Canto Opera of New York City, and locally with ESIPA and at Russell Sage College. She has appeared as a concert soloist with the Butler Symphony, Capitol Hill Choral Society, Hudson Valley Choral Society, Octavo Singers, Pittsburgh Operalogue and the Noontime Concert Series at the Empire State Plaza. Most recently, Salon served as musical director for Working and Jacques Brei at Union College. She is currently singing with the New York Academy of Art under the· direction of Christopher Alden, and will return to the American Institute of Music Studies in Graz, Austria for auditions with her husband, Dr. Sheppar Salon now on sabbatical from RPI. Guitarist Joan Mullin te~ches classical guitar at the College of St. Rose and in her private studio in Delmar. She has performed widely in the area and in master classes with Jose Thomas and Alirio Diaz in Spain. Cuban-born pianist Juana Zayas, internationally known for highly individual in- terpretation, made her New York degut during the 1977;78 season at Lincoln Center per- forming the complete Chopin Etudes. A graduate of the National Conservatory in Paris, she is a prize winner of the International Piano Com- petition in Geneva and the Teresa Carreno Piano Com- petition in Caracas. words to \Happiness\ from the Peanuts paly, \You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown\ on cue cards and the felling of hap- piness filled the room. The crowd got together at the Woman's Week finale as well. Anne Carl, Jennifer Paston and Marcy Wilder combined their talents and wrote a female version to the song \We Are the World\. The lyrics were for the chorus, \We are the girls. We make the children. It's up to us to stand and change the con· stitution, It's pro-choice we're saying. We're saving our own lives. Let's show them we are much more than just housewives.\ That was the end of the Woman's Week Cabaret and it was an evening filled with laughs, fun and entertainment. Cabaret hopes to see more of you people get involved either as performers or faces in the crowd. Go See Cabaret Copperfield was also adept at developing an immediate rapport with the audience. He That, however, is not a complaint. Copperfield's good- natured approach to magic and to his .audience was refreshing and very entertaining. He didn't get ultra-serious · at difficult tricks or try to make us believe people really disappeared (as Harry Blackstone Jr. did when he played Proctors a few years ago), but instead enjoyed his time on stage as a chance to meet and entertain his audience. The crowd responded warmly to him, giving him two standing ovations and packing the lobby after the show to meet him for autographs (he was signin~ tour merchandise sold to atd Project Magic--a program practiced in eighteen countrfeS which teaches magic to people with physical-mental defects as a form of therapy). Like any master entertainer, he left the crowd wanting more. The dB's (it's .short for deciBels) join the Lyres and the Reducers tonight at8 p.m. in Alumni Gym. Tickets are st1ll available.

ilem--and ·and used mteers to When one ge to be f. the most erformed) 1r chewing you bring !?\ When hadn't, he 1e put the ped it into ling the disgust by has some of show it tyle and lighter on tinly there ly of awe- (i.e., ones out). Chief levitation ng people, involved a audience. ions of the a pet duck 10 waddles 1g a bow-tie bill-synchs, te) to pre- know. the st as con· 1.ence and is with the is not a leld's good- ' magic and 1 refreshing g. He didn't at difficult e us believe 1peared (as r. did when a few years his chance to his responded him two packing to meet (he was sold Magic--a in eighteen magic therapy). he more. CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/25, 1985 Organ Concerts Continue By CATHY MARKES Staff On April 20 at 8 p.m., Professor of the Arts Hugh Allen Wilson gave the fifth in a series of organ recitals at Memorial Chapel. Saturday night's recital consisted of Part III of Johann Sebastian Bach's Keyboard Studies and his Prelude and Fugue in C minor. Before beginning his program, Wilson addressed his audience to give a brief history of the pieces he chose to per- form. Wilson stated that the Keyboard Studies were ope of the few compositions Bach saw published during his lifetime. Tbe collection is often incorrectly referred to as the \German Organ Mass\ or the \Catechism\, probably because it is made up of chorale preludes based on hymns of the Lutheran faith. After this introductien Wilson took his place at th~ organ and commenced the program with the majestic Prelude in E. flat. This was an intricate, heavily ornamented piece obviously in the Bach tradition. To follow this, Wilson chose a set of three chorale preludes. Each carried the melodic line in a different voice, progressing from soprano to bass. These selections, in marked contrast to the first prelude, were harmonically less complex and their relation to Berman hymns . became ap- parent. The last of these pieces ended on a climactic chord, which fittingly led into a quiet series of short compostions written for manuals alone. Wilson then performed \Allein ' Gott in der Hoeh' sei Ehr\ a piece which I considered to be the finest on the ,program. The initial section had an exquisite sound which brings elegance te mind, followed by a lilting melody in the center of the piece. It finished with a short but definitive conclusion. After stepping down ta in- troduce the final work to be ,performed, Wilson ended the program with the Prelude and Fugue in C minor. The two portions of this work were written some fourteen years apart, then URi ted by Bach after writing the prelude. The piece provided a fitting closing to the program, and was well- received by the audience. The only negative aspect of this concert sponsored by the Arts Department was noticing that so few students were in attendance. At a college which I Folk Is Back I prides itself in its liberal arts diversity, it seems remarkable that a minority of the campus ever takes advantage of the opportunities here. Even the most conscious student might consider some of these options if By BRIAN LAUX Staff he-she truly CARED about what Union provides for us. THE ARTS Professor Hugh Allen Wilson performed Saturday N.ight in Memori·al Chapel It was billed as the \last event of Woman's Week,\ a week filled with events that proved to be diverse in nature, intent, and interest. Indeed Cathy Winter had a tough act to follow, especially on a campus .that tends to ignore the beauty and creativity found in.. con· temporary folk music. ... Her voice. was strong, yet sweet, at times mellow, at times raspy and hard. She used it like a playwright might use a back- drop, to set the mood and then to blend all the elements together to tell her tales of love and pain. Ms. Winter was true to the theme of Woman's Week, singing of Women's roles during the homestead era, in the Jazz Age in New Orleans, and telling tales of women's desires to fly and to be free. Her songs and stories were enchanting and delightful to this listener. Her manner and presence were excellent aJ1d,lJer musical talent very apparent. In all, the evening was enjoyable and proved to be a perfect end to the week. '4aWith Piano And Drums'' Ms. Winter came out to a small, somewhat tentative audience with an a capella sing along that dealt with the pro- life, pro-choice' debate, among other things. This was followed by the introduction of her guitar, with which she brought many stories and legends to life. By CARRIE CERRONE Staff The fifth concert in the series entitled Traditions of Improvisation, \With Piano and Drums\ featuring jazz pianist Jeff Presslaff and percussionist David Nelson was given on Friday April 19th in the new ·Arts Recital Hall. This particular concert was spon· sored by the Union College Arts NOTICE! QE2 S'rANDBY FARE 1b EUROPE-NOW $599. This stqndby fare provides a berth in a room for 4 (we'll find traveling companions for :you). Or, for $699, sail in a minimum grade room for 2 people. This limited offer is subject to withdrawal without prior notice and may not be combined with any other offer. Rate does not include taxes or airfare. Confirmation will be given 3 weeks prior to sailing; a $75deposit is required with your request. For details, see your travel agent or write: Cunard, EO. Box 2935, Grand Central Station, New York, NY 10163. CUNARD PARENT'S WEEKEND *SPECIAL EVENTS * I>rlze Day Awards Ceremony, Saturday, 11:00 a.m .. Memorial Chapel Panel Discussion ;'Techno/ow in the New Liberal Arts,\ President Morris presiding. Saturday, 1:30-2:30 p.m .. Memorial Chapel Weekend Seminars, Saturday. 3:30~4:30 p.m .. three locations President's Reception for Parents, Students, Faculty and Staff, Saturday 4:5o-s:3o p.m .. with Union Jazz Ensemble, Jacl<!son's Garden (Alternate -Hale House) Dance/Concert, Featuring the Ron Partch- Lew Pettys Orchestra. Saturday, 9:30 p.rn.,.-t:::.o a.m., Ramada Inn. Nott Street Club and is part of a series organized by Professor Hilary Tannin hopes of \generating a community of art lovers at Union who will see, hear, and perceive.\ Jeff Presslaff and David Nelson were also featured in the first presen- tation of this series which focused ·on Indian music. The concert was well- attended with an enthusiastic audience. The eight selections included \Who would He give the Power to, anyway?\ (an invocation), \Played Thrice,\ \Pieces of Nine,\ \The Real McCoy,\ \A Pallavi is a Pal Indeed,\ \Walking Away With It,\ \After All That,\ and \Break It Till It Shakes.\ Although the pieces are titled, it is emphasized that they were not prepared before the concert but improvised as the per- formers were playing, therefore guaranteeing a distinct per· formance. What is decided beforehand is the style and objective of each selection. The musicians, for example, may choose to start a piece together and then go in separate directions. Jeff Presslaff noted that they will occasionally let one segment run into another in order to \complete\ a selec- tion's style. It was fascinating to watch the bitense interaction between the artists who each followed their creative intution yet were able to blend their individual styles into one with ex- traordinary ease. When the performers are concentrating on the improvisation, rather than a prepared work, they \draw the audience into the direct communication,'' commented Professor Tann. The informal concert series which has made performances more accessible\ to students has been very well-received. This presentation was termed \superb \fascinating \interesting and \different by various audience members who were pleasantly surprised with the original and energic musical expression. The sixth and final concert of the series, \Music for Microprocessor,'' with Ron Kuivila will be held on Friday May 17th at 7:30 PM in the new Arts Department Performing Arts Studio. All are encouraged to attend what is expected to be an equally enjoyable and enlightening cultural ex- perience. WRUC 89.7 fM • STEREO Here it is: The WRUC TOP 89.7. These albums were the most frequent spinners on WRUC turntables fot· the past week. Just one request for your favorite new album, at 370-6151, can affect the vecy nature of next week's charts. This Last Week-Artist Album, Label Week 1.-The Vipers . Outta the Nest, Passport 8.97 2.- Tears For Fears Songs from the Big Chair, Polkygram 1 3.-Billy Bragg · Brewing Up With, CD Presents 4.-Ultravox · The Collection, Chrysalis 5.-NickKershaw The Riddle, MCA 6.--Howard Jones Dream Into Action, Elektra 2 7 .-Drongos Small Miracle, Proteus 7 8 . ...SADE Diamond Life, Portrait - 8.97-Game Theory Real Nightmare, Enigma - •.• Program Notes: Tune in to Jazz on WRUC\ weekd~ys from 1 to 4 p.m .... \The Week in Review, can be heara every Thursday at 6 p.m .... At 89.7 FM, WRUC is your non-commercial alternative. -compiled by Evan Schwartz · WRUC Music Director

\ Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS, Apri/25, 1985 Help Raise Money for Union Phi Delta Theta Annual Spring Student Phone- A-Thon April. 29 thru May2 Monday- Thursday · Banquet Room 6:30 p .. m.-9:30 p.m. To Benefit The American Cancer Society May 21-22 Organize A Team Now! Call 372-4573 ·or 382-9730 For ·More Info FREE BEER &DINNER Sign up teams of 8 at La mont House Softball Marathon Delta Gamma Olympics Are Coming! Get your teams together May17 Submit·a team of 5 men and 5 women b}l May 3 to BOx 634. Fee of $3 per.person for t-shi rts .. All Proceeds go to Sight Conservation and Aid to the Blind Union College Concert Committee Presents The dB's The Lyres The Reducers Thursday, April25 8:00p.m. • Alumni Gym Student Tickets Only $4 EJeo(ol l)y 1ne l,lolll'r , M•IW,Svt£'i!' W•<;.CO\\•\ WELCOME TO MILLER TIME * HANDMADEsitVE.6'1£wELRY . * Imported INDlAN CLOTHES & GIFTS Complete Une of PIPES, SMOtuNG ,.r.CCESSORIES & ltnported ClGAREl£5.& TOBACCOS· Imprinted ROCK & ROLL-GROUP T.-S111RTS ''GOD\ is coming!! (Parent's Weekend) Repent now. Buy tickets for Woody Allen's hit comedy sponsored by Mountebanks Parent's Weekend-- May 9, 10, 11 May 14, 16, 17,18 Tickets on sale at Student Activities • $3 Students w/1 D • • $4 Faculty • • $5 General Public • · ....... '·'•·'·'·-·.:-. ( n t I c ~ f s 1 . I I I . I I

~·· . ... ... . .. ·~ . ,_---------------------------------~O~ON~C~OR~D~l~E~N.~Sl~S.~,A~p~~!u=25~,~19~8~5------------------------------~P~a!~~1~5 SPORTS Athlete;of the Week Josh Greene - ' On Sports By JAY GROSSMAN Sports Editor ~ongratulations goes to peggy Petro as this week's athlete of the week. Petro has been a foitr-year standout at shortstop for the women's softbal:l team. She has also been co-captain of the team for the past two seasons. Petro has 'been one of the important forces with her bat that has given the team an 8-0 record to date. So far this season, she leads all hitters with 11 hits, 10 RBI's, three doubles, two triples, and 9 AthleteoftheWeek Peggy Petro runs, in 25 at bats for a .440 avg. In 1984, Petro was fourth in hitting with a .433 average and she was second the season before with a .389 season average. In Union's victory over Skidmore last week Petro went 3 for 5 with a double,' 3 runs scored, and. 2 RBI's. The Kingston, NY native was a~ aU-league -shortstop at Kmgston HS. At Union, Petro is .E a computer science-math _g major, aml she ls a sister at g Delta Gamma. Good luck to v;. Peggy Petro as she finishes out an . outstanding .softball career ·at Union. Garnet Oarsmen Row to Fin-als BySPORTSSTAFF The varsity oarsmen from Ithaca and Union heated up the waters of Lake Cayuga Saturday afternoon during the finals of the Ithaca Invitational· Regatta. Those on the shore witnessed the closest race of the day when the host rowers nosed across the finish line just . seconds ahead of Union's varsity eight. Union's time of 6:37 gave them second place for the 2,000 meter race. In the first heat of the day Union's varsity generously romped on Colgate's crew as well as beating Skid- more's varsity by a substantial margin. This gave the eight their position in the finals. . lose to Ithaca. We certainly have the potential to beat teams like them, and I think if ·we p~actice refining ourselves we will prove to be the effective contenders we are capable of being.\ Union will face Ithaca again in two weeks at Trinity. Today at 3:30 Albany will meet Union at their own Mohawk River. On Sunday the men's varsity and novice eights will travel to Williams for waht should prove .to be a challenging race. Varsity bow oarsman and the guy most responsible fo~ the intricate rigging of the racing shells, Dave Sveden says \W ' ' e ve made some vital changes in the way the . boat is r~gged. Tl;ll~ and some per- Sistant trammg should give us the edge we need to come out ahead.\ In the aftennath of the fall and winter sports seasons which saw the Union faithful blessed with postseason teams at every come~, the 1985 spring sports season promises to be eventful, exciting, and most importantly, successfulfor an involved, if the first month is any indication of things to come. Following in the footsteps of Coach Scanlon's hoopsters and Coach Magee's booters, aiming to surpass the efforts of Coach Morrison's pucksters and Coach Bagnoli's gtidders, the Union College Women's softball team along with the Union College Rugby . Club have maintained the Garnet winning tradition. Cont.plete Turnaround:. Under the leadership of Coach Charlyn Robert the Union College Women's Softball team has raced to a perfect 7-0 record this spring. With the addition of six freshmen to go along with a new field, the entire squad was optimistic from the start of spring training. To .com- plement the influx of youth, Coach Robert has an assort- ment of veterans to rely on, all with prior game experience. The pitching for this year's team has been handled by Angie Miczek, a returning veteran who pitched 70.2 out of 71 ind nings for last year's 4-5 team. Leading the way for this year's crop of freshmen have been Colleen Dunden from Conklin, New York and Shelly Pino from Valatie, New York. Colleen has _become a regular in the outfield while displaying a strong bat as well. She ranks The men's novice boat also made it into the finals heat, by beating Albany and Hobart. Although, they were unable to dominate the Ithaca J.V. Women's Varisty rowed in a four-person shell and followed suit by taking second to Ithaca. The Women's Novice eight raced Ithaca and Albany beating Albap.y whom they will confront again this afternoon. 0 among the leaders on the team <:; in hits, RBI's and batting -a_ average. Shelly has stepped in ~ to fill the void at second base ._ and combines with shortstop u Peggy Petro to give the Dut- chwomen a potent and reliable middle infield. Jean Monaco, from Northport, New York, has seen action as catchef for Coach Robert.· Jean holds the distincd tion of leading the team in walks. Rounding out the rookies, Val Barbie from Men's varsity oarsman, Lance Humphrey said about the race, \It was disappointing to Crew paddles to victory at Assumption Invitational this past weekend. Pictured here is the varsity A team. Mell~s Track Places Third By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff Running at less than full strength, the Union men's track team put together a fine team performance accompanied by many PR's to place third at the Hartwick Invitational in Oneonta this past Saturday. The Dutchmen collected 85 ~oints aided by four ten-point f1~st places. RIT won the meet With a collection of 113 points and Hudson Valley C.C. edged out Union with their total of 90 Points. Junior Scott Remillard continued t~ round up the points by becommg Union's only multiple winner. Remillard continued to dominate the hammer throw by winning the event with a throw of 170'1 '', his best of the year. Remillard also won the discus with a toss of 140'10\. Other winners for the Dut- .....__ chmen were Jim Mann who was the sole competitor in the five kilometer walk with a time of 23:07 and Bob Bertagna in the triple jump with a distance of 42'10 1 /z\. Union gained multiple scorers in three events as George Capozzi and Cecil Bright led off with a 4th and 6th respectively in the 100 meter dash. Rich Romer and Dan Vaughn placed 2nd and tgh in the 400 meter intermediate hurdles, and Jon Walter and Andy Hodgkin placed 4th and 5th respectively in the 400 meter dash. other individual places were attained as Romer placed 2nd in the 110 meter high hurdles, Bright placed 5th in the 200 meter event, and Wayne Lacy copped a 5th in the javelin. Neil Ricks also managed a 5th place finish in the 5km run. Both of Union's relays placed as the 4x100 relay placed 3rd and the 4x400 relay placed 4th. The Union- coaches were very pleased with the team per- formance ·of of each individual performance of those who placed or did not place. Coach Ebbets took four of his biggest guns to Boston on Saturday for the BC Relays. Rob Mohlar and Jeff Barker ran together in the 800 meter race clocking a time of 1:57.5 and 1:57.6 respectively. Mike Reed hoping to go under 4:00 in th~ 1500 meter event just missed because he was not feeling well. He still clocked a fine time of 4:03.7. Winston Britton ran the 400 meter dash in so~o seconds despite falling coming out of the blocks at the beginning of the race. The men are scheduled to complete again this Friday at -home as the Dutchmen host the Union Open. The meet is scheduled to get underway at 4 p.m. WRUC SPORTS presents UNION DUTCHMEN LACROSSE . ' Saturday, April 17th • .3:00p.m. vs. HAMILTON CONTINENTALS Pregame at 2.:45 WRUC89.7 FM Central Bridge, New York, Jill August from Albany and Patty Roach from Scituate, Mass. As co-captains, Angie Miczek and Peggy Petro round out the graduating class. Petro, the shortstop, sports a slick glove and a quick bat (she was third on the team in hitting last year with a .433 average). In ad- dition, she leads the team in stolen bases and ranks second in runs scored. Miczek, from Saratoga Springs, is a dominant pitcher. In pitching nearly all of seven games this year she has a perfect record while sporting an ERA around 2.00. Rounding out the ·infield positions are Patty Richards, Lyla Meader and Regina zaccardo. All three are juniors and have been three- year letter winners:· RichardS- has made a name for herself by supplying The Garnet with much needed power while Meader and Zaccardo have proven to be contact hitters. In the outfield junior Kim Mangino from Schenectady and sophomore Jeannie Haller from Ballston Spa have proved themselves solid performers. Jeannie leads the team in runs scored and is second on the team in walks. Kim has become a defensive stalwart rwming down fly balls and gunning down runners With her strong arm. The rest of the veterans include Amy Stake, who provides able relief at pitcher when called upon, Lorraine Thomas, and senior Robin Weiner who is the fourth out- fielder. With seven wins already in the bag, the women's softball team has guaranteed itself a winning season for the first time in years. With six games remaining, five of which are home games, the possibilities of an undefeated season and postseason play loom for the Dutchwomen. As the weather continues to get better, give an occasional glance in front of A:lumni; you mi·ght get a glimpse of what may be Union's only undefeated team this year. Good luck to Coach Robert and the rest of the Union soft- ballers! Ruggers Ready: The Union Rugby Club traveled to Ithaca this .past weekend sporting a winning streak dating back to last year. Coming off successive shutouts of Hamilton and Siena (the Ruggers had not beaten Siena in four years), the team seemed primed for another successful weekend of scrumming. This was not to be as the Ruggers ran U(? against a tough Ithaca squad and fell by a score of 15-0. Against Ithaca, not only did the Ruggers have to contend with a crowd whose behavior was questionable at best, they had to battle a mounting case .of injuries which saw three regulars step aside for healthier warriors. Ed Hart, a senior who has been a rugger his entire Union career may be out the entire season with a serious shoulder injury. Ron Amidon, a junior whose prior football career has enabled him to fit right in with the first XV missed weekend action as well due to a shoulder bruise. Steve Cole, another veteran missed action suffering from a bruised foot. To· complicate matters, Cole and Amidon ranked one, two on the depth chart and their ab- sences entailed many positional changes. As co-captain Doug Baumgarten explained af- terwards, \We played one of our worst games ever; forget about injuries and positions, we were flat. I think the loss may help us in the long run because it brought us back to earth.\ In the second game last weekend the Union Ruggers reboWlded to crush Oneonta 22- 0. Although the victory was a total team effort, Doug Baumgarten shined for the Ruggers recording three assisto; and a try. While there are no National Championships or playoffs for our Union Rugby Club, this weekend the Upstate Rugby Tournament will be held at Windover Park in Schenectady. This tournament will bring upwards of one hundred rugby clubs together to compete over two days for the Upstate Rugby Championship. At 9:15 this Saturday, the Union Ruggers are slated for their first game against an undetermined op- ponent. Come see if the Ruggers are ready to live up to the ex- pectations they have created for themselves. . . Next Week: An Inside Look At the lacrosse Programs

... Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, April 1985 SPORT Lax Stands At 6-3 SPORTSWEEK Apri.l 25-May 1 Thurs.4/25 Women's Lax vs. Russell Sage By MARK LEYTON Sports Staff The last Union College men',s lacrosse team was to have a better than .500 season then the 1978 ter n which had a 6-5 recorr l'bis year however, rej1· J.ted by rookie head C' . Mike Troop, the Dut- chmen, now 6-3, are within two victories of assuring them- selves of tlieir finest record in at least the last seven years. Already this season, the Dutchmen have defeated such powerhouses as 1984 ECAC Div. III champion Bowdoin (9--7), Albany State (15-7), and strong squads from Connecticut College, Oneonta, and The University .of Rochester. Of their three losses, the most dissappointing was Geneseo (7- · 6) in a game that went down to the wire, but was a case of too little too late for the heart- broken Dutchmen. Tenth ranked St. Lawrence proceeded to trounce . Union (12-4) in a game that was close until the second half when the score opened up. This left Union with a 5-2 mark so far for the year, with the Dutchmen's toughest opponent coming in sixth ranked Middlebury. Union's loss of 14-4 to Middlebury proved to be a costly one. Injuries were felt in key spots of the team as Senior midfielder Tim Clorite went down with an ankle injury. Also injured was Union's second leading scorer, freshman Phil Horn, who had 21 goals and five assists. ''Marc Euhdin and Phil make up one of the better ·One-Two scoring punches at the Division III level\ Commented coach Toop before the injury. With Horn and Clorite sidelined for at least a week, the Dutchmen had to pull together and play with what they had on the bench. Their next rival was RPI, a team which Union has failed to defeat for the last eight years. Although devestated by in· juries, the Dutchmen took a 6-5 lead into the half with a strong offensive drive by Junior John Romeo and Senior Captain Euh- din. In the second half Union took to RPI with vengence, scoring seven goals to their one goal, with five coming in. the fourth quarter. This gave Union a decisive 1a:.6, victory which proved to the team that Coach Toop's new given drive, determination, and conditioning really provides an asset to even an injury riddled team. Against RPI Euhdin tallied four- goals and two assists While Romeo had four goals. Coming off the bench, Aridy Mann showed the depth of this Lax team with his three goals. Mike Weiser had a goal and two assists while Andy Ross had three assists. Also, offensively Eric Kaye had an outstanding game, along with a great effort given by Craig Lyons who came off the bench to score a goal. Defensively, Todd ''Wonderwand'' Johnston made his attackman virtually unseen while playing a great game. He was ·tenaciously backed by senior co-captain ... Union Track Open this weekend John Drake, Tim Meyer, Mark Leyton, Gary Cornick, and Craig Miller. In goal, Rookie sensation John Thorne did another outstanding job, saving over fifty percent of the shots taken. Statistically, this year has seen a great improvement for the Dutchmen, outscoring their opponents in the last nine games 80-67. Last Year Union finished the season trailing in goals by 11&-71 in a total of twelve games. Most . im- portantly, Union has outscored its opponents 42-.30 in the final half of the game while last year the Dutchmen were outscored 64~32. This figure exemplifies the new type of play instituted by Toop. In goal, John Thorne proved to be the nwnber one ranked goalie in division three, saving an incredible .720 per- cent of shots on goal. The Dutchmen have five games remaining, all against tough teams, yet it looks as though they are on their way to their best season in a number of years. Support Union ' Sports Men's Gol.f at AI C w/WHiiams .Fri. 4/26 Men's Tennis vs. Colgate· Men's Outdoor Track--Union Open Women's Outdoor track--Union Open Sat. 4/27 Men's Baseball vs. Middlebury (2) Men's Lax vs. Hamilton Women's Lax vs. Hamilton Women's Softballvs. Hammon Sun. 4/28 Men's Golf at Hartwick I nvy Women's Softball at R'PI Men's Tennis vs. S.kidmore Mon. 4/24 Tues. 4/30 Men's Baseball vs .. Albany Women's Lax (A & B) vs. Oneonta Men's Track at Albany w/Norwic·h Men's Baseball c;~t Siena Men's Lax vs. Sien.i'! Wed. 5/1 Men's Tennis vs. Binghamton 7:00 1:00 3:00 4:30 4:30 1:00 3:00 12:00 11 :00 l:OO 3:30 3:00 3:00 3:30 3:30 7:30 7:30 3:00 ~--------GARNET SCOREBOARD--------~ Men's Baseball N. Adams St. 11 RPI7 Unions Union 2 Men's Lax Middlebury 14 Union 13 w.omen's Lax Williams? Union 12 Middlebury 22. Women's Softball UnionS Union 13 Unionl3 Union 13 Union 3 union J Norwich 1 Norwich 1 Union 4 RPI 8 Union 8 Army 10 Union 2 St. Rose 1 Skidmore3 Skidmore a Siena 4 Ruggers Primed For Tourney By A.J. Fortunato Sports Staff Lady Tracksters Set Records The team to beat. in t~e Upstate Rugby Umon this Hart and Ron Amidon. Both players will be missed sorely, since both injuries will sideline the players for the entire season. Finally, the Killer B's bounced back from their loss to Siena by beating Albany's B- side 4.0, starting the game late and finishing it in almost complete darkness. year. The sloppy ball-handling and tackling, however, made the Garnet take on a shade of yellow for the first time, and hopefully for the last time this year. The Killer-B's, good and reaQ.y to play that hot afternoon fought hard to overcome a severe size disadvantage to tie Ithaca's B-side, 0-0. By JULIE HALPERN Sporis Staff This past Saturday Union's womens track team went up against SUNY Albany and SUNY Binghamton at Binghamton. Although Union's team is scant in quantity, the quality of the team is more than sufficient, as they proved this weekend. Again, both relay - teams set new school records. In the 4x100 meter relay Car- mella Creech, Andrea Grief, Julie Halpern and Leona Wetherell ran a 54.6, taking third place. In the mile relay Halpern, Grief, Cindy Curtis and Jenny Lee ran a 4:18.7 placing first. Halpern led off with a 65 second split, she then handed the baton to Greif, who ran an excellent leg of 63.3, bringint the team into first place. Curtis held that position with a split of 66.1 and Lee ran a strong forth leg with a time of 64.2. In the individual events two of the women qualified for the division three New York State Meet on May 3-4. Halpern placed first in the 400 meter hurdles with a time of 71.6 and Creech qualified in the 400 meter with a time of 63.0. In the field events Jen Diorio took first in the javelin with a throw of 113 ft. 10 inches and Karen Krolikowski took third with a throw of 99 ft. 2 inches. Diorio also took third in the discus, throwing a 89 ft. 9 in- ches. Wetherell placed second in the triple jump, jumping 29 ft. 8lfz inches. She also took third in the long jump, with a jump of 13 ft. 10 inches .. others who placed for Union were, Halpern, who placed third in the 100 hurdles, with a time of 17.9; and Curtis also placed third in the 800 meter with a time of 2:30.2. Track will be competing at home this weekend, on Friday at 4:00 p.m. and on Monday evening. Come out and support the Union track teams. Junior attackwoman Bonnie GFaulkner pries the ball loose in recent action vs. Army. The women's lacrosse record is 3·4.rphoto spring was forced to settle for only two wins and one loss rather than three wins last week when Union beat Albany and Oneonta but lost to Ithaca. The Albany game, played last Wednesday in Albany, was a close one. With scores in both halves,Union beat Albany 8-6. Andy Klump scored the first try by being, as he usually is, in the right place at the right time. Andy assisted on the second try by taking a pass from Dave Blee and relaying the ball to Steve Konlian, who dove in for the score. The only Albany score came in the second half, and after being converted by a kick, posed a very real threat to Union and consequently in- tensified the game's play considerably. Fortunately, Albany was unable to take advantage of Union's missed kicks by scoring again. On the other hand, some key injuries were felt that day, two of which included shoulder injuries to Ed The team travelled to Ithaca later in the week to play in that College's Parent's weekend tournament. A large crowd, which included some newly converted Union fans made the night before, watched closely through Cool-Ray covered eyes. It looked as though Union was to continue to move up in the New York State rankings-the crowd seemed to freeze in eager an- ticipation as the Garnet per- formed its pre-game procession of calisthenics and cheers. But Ithaca controlled the game and won 15.0. The two crums were evenly matched, as each won its own put in, whereas the lines were not. The Ithaca line was bigger, and proved to be more agile as well. The shut out came as a surprise to a team that had notlost in almost a full Calender Later that day, in an anti· climactic meeting between the two teams that had been beaten by Ithaca, Union beat Oneonta easily, 22:'0. Doug Baumgarten ran especially well, as did the newest addition to the A-side line, Jeff Zorn. The Killer·B's agreed to settle for the frustrating tie against Ithaca as . their only game that day as the · tournament wound down well behind schedule. Union looks ahead to this weekend's Upstate Tournament in Scotia with mixed feelings. With the added injuries from the Ithaca Tourney, the team suffers physically now more than ever. Still a strong club. the Garnet looks forward to Saturday, hoping for a second chance at Ithaca, this time right here for all Union fans to see. Directions: Windover Park Upstate Rugby Union Tournament Take Van Vranken (past Girling Ctr.) to the end. Make left on Rt. 146. At. first stoplight (you will see a fire station) make a right onto Riverview Drive. Continue until the road ·forks and make a left onto Grooms Road. Follow for about 1 mile and the fields will be on the right. Approx. time: 15 minutes. -

