1 2 1 3 p.m. have ~t potent All- Dudek. yards a ball 21 oc- kind 'though a very back.'' is back. I player a said. gives a fine back- not all a caller even Dut- Dan point een the guys to the and joyed a John a a 100 ~muck was for Dan best but ball by an back far at led an ked have con- 11 just be at feel the .~ .. , L{ t. l ·, Welco~ne Back! \ •• Bulk Rate U .Stl'ostage Paid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 CXIV~ No.9 Schenectady, New York Jan u a ry 1 7, 1 9 8 5 \' ttl Ol .c u OJ c:: .c a. ttl 0 >- .0 0 ...... 0 .c a. Jack Hill, director of campus operations, explains the state of construction on campus. Campus Construction Proceeds Rapidly BY PETER MOHR Staff Since last term, the grounds surrounding the Union College Physical Plant have undergone a significant alteration. On D~cemQ~~ a,_th.e .. nevy par~ing lot near Memorial Fieldhouse was completed. The new lot can accomodate eighty-one cars. The purpose of this lot is to compensate for the spaces lost due to the construction of a new engineering lab in the lot next tQ the Physical Plant. This lab, designed by Saratoga Associates, wUl replace the old one bellind Carnegie HaU. The plans for the new Student Center call for the elimination of the old machine shop. The lab will be given a stucco finish and will resemble a modern Butterfield Hall. Bidding documents for this second phase will be out in the near future and general con- tractor will be awarded the contract. to complete . work on the building. Computer Usage Expands The new lab is currently undergoing Phase I and is being completed by Barsons Con- struction Company of Schenectady. This stage in- cludes the development of the shell of the building, the roof, and a rough floor. The old machine shop is used frequently by engineering students who need specialized parts for various projects. Throughout the year, depart- ments from different areas of the college may request the machine shop to create small objects as well. Thus, it is important that most of the equipment is opera):>le next term. BY JUDIESTEINHARDT News Editor This year has been one of great change in the various computer systems of the school. Over the summer, students were offered a special. deal on the Rainbow microcomputer, a few of which were also installed in the computer center. Next week three new VAX computers are to be installed to sup- plement the two existing ones, and to replace the obsolete Burroughs. In addition, many depart- ments which never were computerized, have become so, and many of thee computerized ones have switched to more efficient systems. The CHUC computers, for example, made computer use in the humanities much more widespread. There are many different opinions on the changes made in the computer system by faculty and students. Professor Baker of the philosophy department believes the changes will im- prove the computer system in the long run, if not right away. He says that in the process of connecting the new system, and getting rid of the old one, there have been some problems, but these problems were short- term and not particularly unusual in such a situation. Also, Baker continued, many of the tasks that used to be performed ·on the Burroughs are now being done on the Hewlett Packard-such as grading, registration, pre- registration, payment of faculty, students, and staff. The first time any program is run there are always problems claimed Baker, and this time was no exception. There were definite problems with pre- registration which greatly inconvenienced everybody. There were also mix-ups in payroll. Baker still believes, however, that the VAX system purchased by the school is supposed to be one of the best miniComputers available. Bal{er said _that the College could not wait until the end of the year to switch systems because the computers would have been swamped. The new computers greatly increased capaeity, but the number of people using computers has also greatly increased. He said the change was \a transition in a short period of time and it was a mess,\ but ·the mess was a result of the ch~nge and not of the particular brand of com- puter. The VAX was chosen as the new system because it was thought to be the best of its kind. Whether it does all it was in- tended to do is yet to be seen. Baker said, \I'm using the VAX and I'm not having any problems.\ Ba·ker also believes the Rainbow computers offered by the school to students, is a top computer for its type. He believes that students are slow to buy them because they are not sold in stores, but marketed as a business and academic computer. He added, however, \if you buy one you are getting a good computer.\ It is \con· sidered one of the top com- puters of its kind.'' Professor Jonas of the history :department, who uses the Rainbow computer for word-processing only, had a different view. ·He does not believe the word:processing program is very proficient. He says it is \highly user friendly, but there's a lot of things it doesn't do.\ Jonas further claimed that introducing new terminals has increased the use of computers, but \the demand that would create has been un- derestimated.\ He also believes that some of the changes have been negative. He says that the Hewlett-Packard in the Social Sciences building is being Continued on 2 According to Jack Hill, Director of Campus Operations, this construction is scheduled to be completed by the end of February. At that time, the work for Phase II will begin. This stage includes · the in- stallation of lighting, heating, and other facilities as well as the finishing of the building's exterior. A farrliliar site holds a wintry welcome for Union students. Beginning in April, and continuing throughout the spring, the equipment located in the existing shop will have to be moved to the new structure. However, Hill wants to ensure that most of the equipment is operable at any one time. Thus, Continued on page 3 Carl Bernstein to Speak at Union *-,Page seven-* II Ain't Misbehavin\' at the Nott Tonight *-Page thirteen-* VI 1'0 01 .c: u (1) c:: .c: a. 1'0 0 >- .0

CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 19115 Computers Introduced mrector of Computer Services Wayne Holt talks about the up- coming d~dication of the new computers. By LAURIE BIDSTRUP Staff A set of four new computers has been added to the Vax cluster at the Peschel Computer Center. On Wednesday, January 23, the computers will be dedicated and an open house will follow. The acronym for the General Access Resource Network at Union College will become known officially as GarNet-UC. The sy~em is a complex network of computer relationships that have been established. ''The growth of this Drinking Age Discussed (NOCR) Those who think a national 21- having to vote against the 21- well, and from the answers to year-old drinking age will year-old law,\ he says. those quest~ons, they conclude become a fact by 1986 may soon Schlosser expects no trouble in th~t. attackmg teenage d~~k have to think again. Though mobilizing massive student drtvmg through such pumtlve federal legislation seems bent support for these efforts. The legi~l~tion may simply_ fos~er on forcing the states into law, he says, has raised their cymclSm towar~ the legislative adopting higher drinking age consciousness more than any process and a disregard of_ l~w laws by withholding 10 percent other issue in the last ten years enforc~m~nt. At best, raismg of their federal highway tax because it directly touches their the drmkmg ag~ to 21 would money if they don't, a number lives as defense spending and reduce fatal traffic _crashes by 2 of observers think some· states other issues don't. percent, or 1,500 lives a year. won't comply. They'll be for- At the U. of Wisconsin-Eau Ironically, solid data exists to feiting big bucks if they refuse- Claire, president of the student prove th_at mandatory seat-~elt a total of $22 million for body Randy Curtis says they're and atrbag laws, whtc~ Wisconsin in 1986 and 1987, for trying to mobilize the support of Congress has deferre~ . until example-but some analysts say private business in fighting the 1989, would reduce fatalities 15 the lost highway taxes will still new law. Students have percent to 30 percent or a be less than projected losses in blanketed the supermarkets in minimum of 15,000 to 20;000 taxes and fees associated with town and all the bars on Water lives. Also, says Hingson, liquor sales. St. with petitions, and they're pass_ive restraints do not For students, however, the stumping for a public reqmre enforcement to be ef- point is justice, not money. Bob awareness club called \I am fective as do- both higher- Bingaman, spokesman for the driving.\ Participating bar drinking-age and DWI laws. United States Student owners agree to provide free, linking system is well underway and should peak in the next two years,\ said Wayne Holt, director of computer services. According to Jiolt, \GarNet- UC will represent the union of multiple communications and computing technologies that will service a campus-wide audience. It will be a method whereby central computing resources will be accessible from classrooms, offices, and eventually dorm rooms.\ He continues, \It will link all computers on campus, in- cluding personal computers in remote locations as well as public equipment.\ The Office of Computer . Services is currently at the halfway point of a five year plan. This plateau is a period of significant adjustment for the new system. There are still many additions to be made hut the central unit of the system has finally been established. Representatives from the Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) will be on campus next Wednesday for the dedication and the Open House. \DEC has provided its IVIS product to the College for a demonstration in the latest computer-driven Laser Video Disk technology. IVIS is an interactive computer aided device which allows a computer to present video images from a laser disc on a terminal screen, along with computer generated text and graphics. It is one of the devices being considered for the CHUC project in the HumaniCas,\ said Holt. Other demonstrations and tours will be offered at the Open House. \Staff members will demonstrate the laser printers, the graphic plotter, the microcomputers,. and the color graphics equipment.\ DEC representatives will also be available to answer any questions visitors may have. Another motive behind the Open House is to extend com- puter awareness to the campus. Computers are reaching into all divisions of the College and are increasingly necessary in the post-Union world. A certain degree .of computer literacy has become necessary. \To kriow how to cope and manipulate, to know where to go to· find out what to do in order to facilitate answers and become more efficient--this is computer Hteracy,\ said Holt. \The computer is just another man- made too'l.\ With the expanded computer facilities at Union, students will be able to use · computers regularly without having to talte a computer course. Students don't need to take specific courses to become computer literate. Attending the Open House at the Peschel Center on Wed- nesday any time from 3:30 to 7: 30 is one way of increasing one's \computer literacy.\ The Office of Computer Services is also open daily for those who may have questions about the system or the purchasing of computer equipment. Tours, demonstrations· and even seminars can be arranged. Association, says the law is non-alcoholic drinks to club patently wrong-headed and members who, in turn, act as student associations across the chauffeur for the drinking country are gearing up to make members of their group. their state legislatures un- Memberships cost nothing and derstand that. \On a gut level, I participation, says Curtis, is think it's a civil rights issue,\ high. Union Computers Reviewed he says. \How can you tell this Meanwhile, two researchers age group, 'You can vote. You at Boston U. are lending their can sue and be sued. •You can support to the under-21-year marry. You can serve in the olds. Research by Robert Smith military, but you can't drink.'? and Ralph Hingson in the School It's absurd!\ of Behavioral Science suggests Bingaman says his group and that raising the drinking age others are considering a con- has no effect on overall traffic stitutional challenge to the law deaths or on the drinking habits in court. The 25th Amendment of teenagers. \I thin..lt teenagers reserves control of alcohol to have been unfairly singled out,\ the states, and critics see the says Smith. corning battle over the drinking Smith and Hingson studied age as a states' rights issue. fatal crashes in the three-year At the U. of Texas-Austin, period after Massachusetts Rodney Schlosser, student body raised its drinking age from 18 president, says he expects the to 20 and compared those battle to break there in patterns with New York which January. \I don't want to let the did not raise its legal drinking whole world know about all our age. They found New York bullets before we shoot them,\ fatalities declined almost as he says, but suggests the much as Massachusetts. students' general plan of attack Moreover there was no will include lobbying, reduction among 16- and 17-year educational efforts, and the olds, the group primarily drafting of positive, alternative targeted by the new law. legislation. The Boston researchers have The 25th Amendment reserves control of alcohol to the states, and critics see the coming battle over the drinking age as a states' rights issue. Schlosser points to the fact that Minnesota's traffic fatalities increased four-fold after raising its drinking age to 19. Teens had no trouble getting liquor, but took to the dangerous and boring privacy of their cars to drink it. It was only when Minnesota passed stiff driving- while-intoxicated or DWI laws that traffic fatalities began to decrease. That's the kind of legislation Schlosser has in mind, and, in fact, the Texas Student Lobby has been on reccrd behind tougher DWI laws for the last two years. \We would ·like to . have positive DWI legislation ready to go in January so legislators can vote for something instead of just serious reservations about the conclusions Cqngress drew from the study It looked at in drafting tlle 21-year-old drinking age law. That study looked at statistics from nine states which raised their drinking ages, and found a 28 percent reduction in single- ve.hicle, night-time crashes (those most associated with alcohol). But the survey found only an 11 percent reduction in overall crashes-a percentage statisticians say could be ac- counted for by chance variation. As Hingson puts it: \They have 'suggestive data' but not 'conclusive evidence.' \ The Smith-Hingson study included an opinion survey as Continued from page 1 unhooked permanently, which will inconvenience the people who have been using it. Jonas believes that in general, \the academic side is underdeveloped, while the administrative side is -running relatively smoothly.\ He does not believe, however, that the major problems resulting from the changeover are indicative of a failure in the new system. Thomas Warger, Assistant to the Vice President, also claimed the problems with pre- registration and payroll were a result of the changeover from one system to another. He continued, \we hope that we are beyond that now. Registration is going pretty well-a sign that we are getting a grasp on it.\ In view of criticism con- cerning the school's choice of the Rainbow microcomputer, Warger stated there were three reasons why the school had purchased the Rainbow: First, the school got a substantial discount from the manufac- turers of Rainbow, the Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC), because the school had. bought so many from them before, including VAX; second DEC does a good job of providing compatibility between microcomputers and the VAX system; and third, in its price range and class it is \especially versatile.\ Despite these advantages, the school has not been terribly successful in selling the Rainbows to students. Warger said, \We're holding a fair number of Rainbows, we're not selling them as fast as we'd like.\ He explained it was part of the deal with DEC, for the school to have to buy a certain number of computers from DEC and then sell them to students. The school could not have bought them from DEC as orders came in from students. Warger believes the Rainbow is not selling very well because \on the open market it doesn't compete. Rainbow isn't a household word, it's not widely advertised.\ IBM and Apple microcomputers sell much better because of their wide distribution and reknown. Warger is generally satisfied \We set out a plan covering five years and we're now in the third year, we're pretty much where we should be ... \ -Warger with the computer advances made at the school as a whole. He said, \we set out a plan covering five years and we're now in the third year, we're pretty much where we should be and in some areas we're ahead.\ Lasar printing, the CHUC computer, and word- processing are areas in which he claims the school is ahead. Administrative computing, however, is a little behind, according to Warger. In general, the five-year plan is \roughly on schedule.\ Caroline Brandenstein and Kate Douglass, two senior computer science majors presented the changes from a student point of view. They look at the changes with optimism. Brandenstein said, \last year we had everybody on the one (computer) and it took forever to do anything. It should never be that bad again, hopefully.\ Brandenstein and Douglass claim that one disadvantage of the new system is that you can no longer send electronic mail to someone on a different VAX. A person used to be able to send a computerized message to anyone as long as they knew what course the recipient was taking. Now you need a program to link the five VAX computers to each other. The program is not available yet, but its formulation has been proposed. The two also believe the school is. somewhat overen- thusiastic about the new Rainbow computers. There are two \heavy\ computer science courses that are now on the Rainbow, according to Bran- denstein. She explained, \I think they're putting too much on the Rainbow, so there will be a lot of people who will have to use the Rainbow this term and there's only ten of them in the computer center.\ Douglass said it best when she summarized how the changes have helped the students, \They've done so much since we were freshman. We remember nine terminals, when the entire computer center was in the room that just the computer is in now. It's 400 per cent better now.\ SCIENCE MAJORS Interested in Medical Research? Applications to Ph.D. programs in Anatomy, Biochemistry 1 Microbiology 1 Pharmacology and Physiology are now being accepted. Assistantship available. For more info. contact: College of Graduate Studies SUNY Upstate Medical Center Syracuse, NY 13210 An Affirmative Action-Equal Op· portunity lnsthutioll.

and Open ~s will , the color DEC be any the COffin all in the kriow to out more puter \The man~ use ~ed to ~come at Wed- 30 to a sing 'The is who t the of ~d the new are the ran- the of ~re's she We just 400 p· CONCORDIENSIS, January 17,1985 Page3 Fourth Sorority Proposed .. .. Group Views Choices By JOANNE MCANDREWS Staff \Women on the Union College campus are becoming more interested in Greek life,\ commented Robin · Gross, chairman of · the Panhellenic Extension Committee. During the 1983-84 school year, a group of women ex- pressed a desire fer a fourth sorority. The Panhellenic Council· (the governing body of the sororities on campus) was hesitant to start a fourth sorority at that time because the Council had only been in existence for three years. According to Gross,. \The Council was still learning in terms of organization and forming committe'es.\ The members of the Council wanted to stall the formation of another sor-ority until the Council itself was strong enough to support another sorority and until there was enough interest shown by the women on campus. Extension Committee Formed This past fall, the Panhellenic Extension Committee was formed to explore the colonization of a new sorority. Commtttee nnembers included Robin Gross, chairman; Dean Robert Massa, Professor Margaret Schadler imd Dean Joanne Tobiessen; and students Nora Kremer, Heidi Kahn, Shari Midoneck and .Robin Weiner. The Committee sent surveys to national offices of sororities asking questions such as whether or not there were chapters of the sorority in New York State. \We looked for sororities that would be geared towards Union students,\ said Gross. The surveys sent by the Extension Committee also covered such topics as colonization, rushing procedures, charter class and chapter size, and the number of alumnae in the Albany- Schenectady area. The Com- mittee considered the number of local alumnae to be a very important factor because they believed that local women could provide needed support to the new sorority. The Extensi'on Committee reviewd many ·pamphlets and information about each sorority. \Each national sorority has several out- standing characteristics, one, for example, being philan- thropy (fund raising and ser- vice projects for national charities),'' Gross delcared. The committee has finally narrowed its choices to three sororities: Phi Sigma Sigma, Delta Zeta, and Gamma Phi Beta. An on-campus location for the new sorority· is improbable for the next year or two. Since the construction of a new student center is to begin in June, it will be necessary to move the offices of other organizations to various places on campus, leaving little space for the new sorority to have a room of its OWii. Presentations by represen- tatives of the national sorority organizations took place this past Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday nights. Gross lL'i{ened the presentations to going through sorority rush- Schedule Change Issue Revived ByALWHITE Staff \Gel Time,\ the class schedule in which each course would be taken either on a Monday-Wednesday-Friday or a Tuesday-Thursday basis, is being- discussed again, and there is the possibility that this schedule could be implemented as soon as the fall of 1985. It seems as though the college administration did not heed the results ·Of a poll printed in Concordiensis, October 25, which showed an overwhelming objection to the new schedule ( 83 percent against it). But considering the nature of the poll, it is understandable that the college took this attitude, as it showed only the overall campus opinion. \It (the poll) would have been more helpful if it was broken down by class,\ explained ProfesSQr William Zwicker, chairman of the Academic Affairs CoWlcil. \There's a possibility that the juniors and seniors voted heavily against the proposal, since most of the older students would be reluctant to change their routines. If the administration knew how the freshmen and sophomores felt about Gel Time, perhaps the poll would be more useful. They are the ones most affected by it anyway.\ In order for Gel Time to begin next fall the following events would have to take place. First, the chairmen of the four divisions of the . school- humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and engineering-would gather all the courses offered by their respective departments, and schedule them using Gel Time criteria. They would then submit these revised schedules to the Registrar's .office, which would try to find an effective way to fit it all together. \Although pedagogically the proposal would be helpful,\ Registrar Dwight Wolfe remarked, \the main problem we may face is whether or not there would be enough classrooms to hold everybody.\ This is especially the case in courses involving labs, where scheduling has been difficult as it is. Even if this schedule does work in. the Registrar's office, the faculty and administration must vote on it, and, according to Zwicker. ''Although preliminary indications are that it could pass, there are several issues to be discussed, and it could go either way.\ In general, the faculty as a whole did not favor either the present system or Gel Time. Most professors here have had experiences with both schedules in some form or another, and do not feel particularly attached to any one schedule. As far as Union's scheduling concerns go, it appears that administrators have bandied about the discussion of a changed schedule of some form for the past half-dozen years, and perhaps this effort could be just another excuse to change the schedule just for changing- the-schedule's sake. As Classics Professor Mark Tober said, \The school seems to be wearing down the novelty of schedule changes. At this point one has to ask whether any of these proposals will be that much more .effeetive than the present system.\ women can get an idea of what each sorority is like, but she can't find out everything about them. She further stated the Panhellenic Council is willing to offer all the assistance the new sorority will need. As of this time, it is uncertain exactly when in the near future the new sorority will be chartered and which chapter will be asked to come to Union. Robin Gross, Chairman of the Panhellenic Extension Committee, discusses the prospect of a fourth sorority at union. Card Chaos Corrected By MARCY BURSTINER Lastteljll,problems occurred · at preregistration Which resulted in chaos up at the Alumni Gym, injuries to several students, and angry sentiments among students and faculty alike. \It was a disaster up there,\ Dwight Wolf, the recently ap- pointed registrar, remarked in a discussion on the fiasco which occurred last term. On November 14, preregistration cards for all classes were handed out in Alumni Gym. The large number of students who showed up for cards combined with the fact that preregistration had previously been spread out over the campus rather than cen- tered in one place, created much.confusion. When the doors opened at 8:30 in the morning, the students rushed to get the cards they needed, creating more confusion and panic and subsequently several students were injured in the rush. Although the chaos that oc- curred had not been an- ticipated, Wolf admitted that the problems happened because of the way the system had been set up. The registrar's office, ap- parently, had never intended preregistration to be in the gym. A new system was set up in order to acconnrnodate the registration of students on a new computer network, which was, unlike the old Burroughs system, unable to schedule students into class sections. In order for the computer to be installed during Christmas break, the Burroughs had to be dismantled about the time preregistration would be handled. To schedule students into class sections, cards had to be given for all courses regardless of demand. The decision to hold preregistration in the gym was made after fac.ulty members expressed concern over the possible chaos which would result when large numbers of students would wait in the dapartment halls for cards. \If I had to do it again,\ Wolf \If I had to do it again, I would spread it all over the campus or move it to a larger facility.\ admitted, \I would spread it all over the campus or move it to a larger facility.\ He suggested that it should have been held in the field house, but it had never been held there before. Although he claims that the administration had never en- visioned how many students would be at Alumni Gym, he was quoted in an article in Concordiensis on November 8 as saying, \On November 14, I expect almost two thousand students lined up outside Alumni Gym.\ Students must have panicked, he believes, when they saw that all courses had cards. They may have feared that all the courses would be closed out . In fact, he went on, there were less drop-adds this term than usual, signifying that most students must have obtained the courses they had sought. One member of the Student Forum remarked that \The ultimate responsibility really belongs to every facet of the college community including the studenrs, but by no means was it the sole fault of the student body.\ This term, preregistration will be handled in an entirely new manner in the office of the registrar. Lists will be used for courses that the departments choose to limit and for which they seek to establish their own criteria for admittance. All other courses will be put into the computer system and students will choose their courses at a randomly assigned ap- pointment with a member of the registrar's office. The appointments will be assigned by class with seniors preregistering on Monday, juniors on Tuesday, sophomores on Wednesday, and freshmen on Thursday. All others who fail to attend their scheduled appointments will meet with the registrar on Friday. The only exception for the random assignments, by class, will be those students who were assigned times that conflicted with their class schedules. Construction Progresses Continued from page 1 there will. probably be facilities in both buildings until the end l)f the spring term. The new lab will feature a two-story machipe shop as well as two stories of offices and storage space. It will have several benefits in comparison to the old machine shop. The lab will be closer to the Science and Engineering complex, providing easier access for the engineering faculty and students. The new building will also be larger and will allow for more efficient location of the equipment. Storage facilities and lighting will be improved as well. The building has also been designed so that additions may be made to the front of the structure if they are needed in the future. After the new lab is com- pleted, small shurbs will be planted around it in order to improve the area's appearance. A wall will also be constructed which will run from the security building to the new lab. This wall will bloc.lt the view of the Physical Plant and thus should allow for a neater appearance of that area of the campus. All of this work should be finished by commencement. At that time, the equipment left in the machine shop will be relocated to the new building. The older structure will be demolished in order to make way for the new Student Center. c ra N c ra \,; ra ... 10 v >- .0 0 0 .c 0.

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1985 Campus News Briefs OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT WORLD-SIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEN AND WOMEN! JAPAN · EUROPE · AFRICA - AUSTRALIA - THE SOUTH . PACIFIC ·SOUTH AMERICA· THE FAR EAST. New Scholarship Created The New Yorlt Federation of Home Bureaus has established an endowed scholarship fund at Union College, in honor of Schenectady County Home Bureau. According to county chair Maryann McDermott, it is the 54th scholarship established by the state organization. The scholarship is to be awarded annually to a com- puter science or liberal arts student. Notice of the award was received by Deborah MacFail, director of annual giving programs, at the state Home Bureau annual meeting held in Syracuse Oct. 4. Campbell Scholarship Established Douglas Whitney Campbell, professor emeritus of political science at Union College, has been honored by the establish- ment at the College of a scholarship in his name by Donald Sirkin, a 1949 graduate of Union. The scholarship is to be awarded each year to one or more students in recognition of academic excellence and participation in activities that enrich the life of the campus. Preference will be given to students who live in the Nor- thwestern U.S. Engineering Welcomes Female Professor Union has recently hired its first female full professor for the electrical engineering department. ·Professor Anna Baraniecki was born and raised in Poland. She accomplished her undergraduate work at the University of Warsaw in Poland and received her Ph.D. at the University of Windsor in Canada. Now a U.S. citizen, she is teaching at George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia and will join Union's faculty this fall. Her research has been in the field of digi<tal signal processing where she has been frequently pubHshed. Non-Credit Courses Offered Union College's non-credit program, offered through the Office of Graduate and Con- tinuing Studies, begins in February, presenting a variety of courses for professional advancement or just for fun. Some are one--day sessions; others meet weekly for twoto 10 weeks. Classes in professional and business skills include \How to Delegate Effectively,'' \Motivating others to Work with You,'' \Interviewing Skills and Techniques for Managers,'' \Assertiveness Training for Managers,\ \Business Writing Skills,\ \How to Prepare for a Civil Service Examination,\ and ''Professional Marketing Secrets.\ Also, courses are available in investment vehicles, BASIC, data-based information systems and career planning. In the cultural interests category, classes are offered in photography,. painting, an- tiques, children's literature, oriental rugs, creative writing, music, Chinese, Japanese, and Swedish. A cultural excursion to Montreal is planned for April26- 28. Special daytime courses for persons of retirement age are · available in \Upstate New York Writing\ and \Surveying the 1985 Summer Music Festivals.\ Programs for young people include theater, creative writing, French, ballet, study skills, printmaking, word processing, and computer progranuning. To register or obtain a free brochure, contact the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies, Wells House, Union College, 370-6288. EXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGHER SALARIES AND WAGES! FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS! More than 300,00.0 Americans Japan, Africa, The South -not including members of Pacific, The Far East, South the armed services - are America .... nearly every part now living overseas. These ofthe free world! peopleareengagedinneariy (3). Companies and everypossible activi- Government agencies ty ... construction, engineer- employing personnel in near· ing, sales, transportation, ly every occupation, from · secretarial work, acc01m- the unskilled laborer to the ting, manufacturing, oil college trained professional refining, teaching, nursing, man or woman. government, etc.-etc. And (4). Firms and organiza- many are earning $2,000 to tions engaged in foreign con- $5,000 per month ... or more! struction projects, manufac- To allow you the op- turing, mining, oil refining, portunity to apply for engineering, sales, services, overseas employment, we teaching, etc., etc. have researched and compil- (5). How and where to ap- ed a new and exciting direc- ply for overseas Government tory on overseas employ- jobs. ment. Here is just a sample (6). Information about of what our International summer jobs. Employment Directory (7). You will .receiv~ our covers. Employment Opportunity ( 1). Our International Digest...jam-packed with in- Employment Directory lists formation about current job dozens of cruise ship ·com- opportunities. Special sec- panies, both on the east· and tions features news of west coast. You will b.e told overseas construction pro- what type of positions the jects, executive positions cruise ship companies hire, and teaching opportunities. such as deck hands, 90DayMoney restaurant help, cooks, Back Guarantee bartender-s, just to name a Our International Employ- few. You will also receive ment Directory is sent to you several Employment Ap· with this guarantee. If for plication Forms that you any reason you do not obtain may send directly to the overseas employment\ or you Winter Term Begins- Forum Tackles Challenges companies you would like to are not satisfied with the job work for. offers ... simply return our <2>. Firms and organiza· Directory within 90 days and tions employing all types of we'll refund your money pro- 3y FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Staff The Union College Student Forum held its first meeting after the Christmas break. A variety of issues were discussed. by the Forum, including proposed future undertakings. With the Board of Trustees holding a meeting this week, Student Trustees Shari Midoneck and Andrew George went over some of the issues to be discussed. Topics to be covered include the deter- mination of next year's tuition (an 8 percent increase is proposed), the showing of plans of the Alumni Gym renovations, and the faculty-student ratio. Both Midoneck and George proposed a full report of the trustees meeting at the next Forum meeting. Vice President of Administration Susan Brand, presented the .. report of the Committee on Committees. The CoC will be presenting to the Forum an amendment to its by- laws next week. The proposed change involves the Seventh Week club reports that are due. In addition to the change of the report name (to Club status report) the procedure of dealing with clubs that fail to fill out these reports is to change. Under the proposed amend- ment, if a CoC recognized student activity does not turn in a status report, it will automatically be placed on \CoC conditional status.\ That club's officers will be required to report to the next CoC meeting with a completed report and an explanation. If these are both furnished, then the CoC can remove them from conditional status. If not, the CoC will submit the name of the organization to the Finance Committee who will freeze that club's budget automatically. If the CoC Chairperson receives a late report, that club may be removed from conditional status. Brand also added that the CoC will be sending out surveys to all CoC appointed positions in order to better understand the nature of these positions. In the spring, when applications are distributed, explanations of all of these positions will be provided. Brian Laux, Vice-President of Finance, presented the Finance Committee report next. At their last meeting the Finance Committee (FC) tabled the request of the International Relations Club for funding. The possible redesigning of the FC project reports were discussed along with confirmation notices for activity use of college services. The actual status of the budget will be revealed next week by Laux. Academic Affairs Representative Tom Megarian then reported upon the ac- tivities of th AAC. The major focus of discussion was the reduction of the faculty load. Several proposals were suggested, including the ap- pointment of additional faculty members. In · addition, the AAC discussed a new summer program \The College Experience\ in which students would spend the first and last weeks of a six-week program at Union, with the middle four weeks being spent at Cam- bridge University in England. Lastly, the \Gel Time\ proposal may hold its first dry run next year. Senior Representative Mary Phillips gave the Student Affairs Council report. At their last weekly Thursday meeting the SAC further discussed changes in the college's parking policy. No formal proposals were presented to the forum. The SAC is also soon to change the focus of its concerns to \socializing\ on campus. Roger Harris, President of the Inter Fraternity Council ....reported that the IFC is work- ing on a fund raising effort for Leukemia. Forinal plans for the Winter Carnival are also to be discussed. In addition, the IFC has been invited to attend a conference at Siena College on alcohol awareness. Lastly to be discussed were some of the final plans of the upcoming President's Dinner to the Freshman class. Student Trustee and dinner organizer Andrew George announced the dinner is to be held this Saturday, January 19, in Hale · House and Old Chapel. Speeches will be given by President Morris, Forum President Benson, and Harry Demgen of Alumni Affairs. The Student Forum members will function as ushers throughout the dinner, and the \gala evening of entertainment.\ personnel in Australia, mptly ... no questions asked. ORDER FORM International Employment Directory 131 Elm a Dr. Dept. T21 Centralia, W A 98531 Please send me a copy of your International Employment Directory. I understand that I may use this information for 90 days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return your Directory for an immediate refund. On that basis I'm enclosing $20.00 cash .... check .... or money order .... for your Directory. NAME __ .. _ ADDRESS _APT# CITY ________ _ _STATE ... _.·----- _____ ZIP International Employment Directory 1984 ATTENTION FRESHMEN The Election of 2 Representatives to the Class of '88 will be held Friday, Jan. 25 Those interested in running may pick up PETITIONS and GUIDELINES in the Student Activities Office, Carnegie Hall. · • Petitions, signed forms and candidate statements are due in Student Activities Tuesday, Jan. 22 at 4:30 p.m.--NO LATER. • Candidate photos--.Monday, Jan. 21 only. 7:00p.m., 4th floor, Carnegie. • For information, stop at Student Activities or call Andy George, x651 0, Shari Midoneck 346·4060, or Doug Landon x6687. GET INVOLVED REPRESENT YO.UR CLASS

MEN! ~GES! South South part and c i e s near· from o the a! ~niza­ con- ap- ment our ty in- t job see- of pro- tions ploy- you for btain job our pro- ~d. ent 90 CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1985 PageS FEATURES Democracy Abroad Studied By BETSY TREITLER Features Editor A nation-state's expression of its political, economic, and social system reveals some of the personalized thinking and characteristics of a people. This is readily visible particularly when one examines the dif- ference in operation of two governments, each proposing to fulfill prerequisites for the same system. Charles Tidmarch, associate professor ·Of Political Science,· observed this when he, and two other Union professors,, visited West Germany in November to attend a conference for the purpose of examining the U. S. Congr~ss and the West 'German Bundestag as two institutions established to promote democracy. Presentations by, and discussions between, American and German political scientists were held in order to exchange ideas and coordinate efforts. Ultimately, efforts will culminate in a book, to be published in 19!!.5, in which each chapter on Congress will have as its counterpart, a chapter on the Bundestag. Tidmarch's endeavors, in particular, are oriented toward a chapter about Congress and the mass media. \In the p.S.,\ Tidmarch notes, \the press says a lot about individual members of Congress whereas the German press speaks about the Bun- destag collectively. Tidmarch attributes this to the fact that West Germany operates under a parliamentary system and thus the interest rests in the Bundestag govern- ment as a whole. · He also suggested that the German press coverage of politics is particularly good. Con- sequently, Germans are ex- posed to a good deal of exaggeration and over- simplification. Tidmarch recalled that \Dallas\ and \Dynasty\ were. the two most popular television shows and such shows clearly influence the German per- ception of American life style. Tidmarch chuckled as he remembered some left wing Germans who saw the \wealthy sqashbuckling J. R. as a prototypical American.\ Coverage of Congress is also poor to the extent that the media, according to Tidmarch, neglects two central respon- sibilities: E.ssentially, they almost automatically criticize Congress and hence fail to report what happens par- ticularly with regard to positive efforts. Consequently, the media fails in their duty to help the public make educated judgments about their gover- ning institutions. Tidmarch remarked that the ''American tradition is to be critical of Congress~ • and with this he recalled Mark Twain's assertion about \Congress as a native criminal.\ Tidmarch responded, \we as people are entitled to a fair and balanced portrait of events and circumstances.\ He . acknowledged, however, that Congress can, and does, rectify some of the public's misconceptions through communications by mail and television reports. Tidmarch spoke with members of a German government agency responsible for political education and pointed .out that they try to promote democracy by producing literature which is incorporated into school curricula. The Ger~ans ap- parently believe they can present all sides and questions in the literature. \Their experience with the Third Reich increased their sensitivity to requirements for democracy. However, the very group sensitive to the meaning of democracy cannot ap- preciate that to promote democracy means taking sides,\ he commented. In essence, their government publishes propaganda even though their intentions are to strive for fairness. Tidmarch pointed out that students should be informed about controversy but that literature should be printed privately-not by the government. The future might hold some FRESHMEN Just a reminder that. immediately following the President's Dinner for the Class of 1988 on January 19th, you are invited to an 11 Evening of Entertainment'' at Memorial Chapel. This presentation will feature some of Union's finest and funniest acts. At 1 0:00 p.m., Professor Charles M. Tid march and his band (Charlie T. and the Grads), will perform in the Old Chapel providing us with a traditionally elassic e~ent. All Are Invited To Attend interesting changes for German democracy. The younger generation, noted Tidmarch, seems to be attracted to the Greens. The Greens are essentially a party ofprotesters who are somewhat hostile to the U. S. particularly in foreign policy and ln environmental affairs. The question remains how a group, that promotes protests and is really not prepared to govern, will act in the future. In addition, how will the West German democracy present itself? Professor Charles Tidmarch attended a conference ln West Germany. Stomping Through Winter By GLENN PEARL Staff When I'm indoors, after a quick sail across campus, it takes a while but I do soon feel it--a qualified nothing. I've finished warming down, and I'm listening to a teacher, participating, looking out a window, or looking at whatever. The cold is outside, and I am inside. I feel secure, and comfortably stranded for at least a little while. I used to make angels in the snow. I moved on to snowmen, sled riding, and eventually skiing. Now I'm into shoveling out walkways and cars. I guess I do like the snow and its winter. It seems the cold and the snow can be outmanuevered, gotten away from. I can ski it, shovel it, endure some of it, get indoors from it, or go to Florida. Next year winter will return. I wonder if I'll be here for it? I just wonder if I can't outsmart it? If my mother were a penguin, and my father a polar bear, I'd be enjoying this. But as it stands the necessary donning, and shedding of extra skins saves little time, and spares much grace. Did I really ever enjoy winter? Did I really used to pray for, and rejoice in the first snowfall? Clearly, that was an earlier, unreclaimed segment to my life. Still, I must admit there are ... let's say certain elements, or situations of winter. I do enjoy, and perhaps always have ... Union's Dates I am walking across campus through a sea of shifting winds. Of course this is not ad- venturous. I'm late for class, and this wind is frost-bite-cold, baby. But a wonderful thing happens, just as I try to read- just my scarf. I realize I have become devoid of a great deal of feeling. I am no longer really cold. I'm a little munb, and for the first time since leaving my apartment, I'm able to take a prolonged look at some of this campus I'm crossing. I think after all I am winter-proof. I do belong here. Who needs the U. of Florida? Luncheon Colloquium Winter /Spring 1985 Tuesday, January 22 \Women's Health in the 80's\ Lisa Harvey, M.D. or. Harvey is a practitioner of holistic medicine, and treats a II aspects of the patient's life, not just physical symptoms. A West Virginian by birth, Dr. Harvey has lived in New York Sta.te for the past live years. She received her undergraduate degree from West Virginia University, and her medical degree from the Bowman Gray School of Medicine at Wake Forest University. She is presently af- filiated with CH P. Banquet Room Carnegie; 12:30 p.m. Bring your lunch Coffee& tea provided By ANNAMALIMUTHIAH Staff Are your dorm walls dull and cracked? Well I have just come across the perfect solution to this problem, and that is the new Union College colorful1985 calendar. It is one of its kind. It costs $4.95 and contains some of the most exquisite photographs of the Union Campus. The photographs, varying with the seasons, depict such scenes as those from the front of the snow- covered Nott Memorial, to the breathtaking views of the Social Science Building to the scenes from the Reunion and the football games. Don Petis, director of the annual fund and Peter Blank- man, director of public relations, created the calendar to send to those alumni and parents who have contributed to the Union College Annual fund ........... , . . . . j:::::: Attention Dancers · · Artists, Musicians, and other artistic people: The Arts Club is compiling a campus-wide Arts Directory l Get your questionnaire from l ! your R.A. or write to us at Box i l 2567. l ~ i • ••••••••• Is it true you can buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S •. Government? Get the facts today! Call 1-312-742- 1142 exte 4269. last year. The pictures were taken by Peter Blankman and some area photographers. This is the first full length color calendar that has been put out by the college. About 13,000 calendars were printed and 10,000 of them were sent out. Others are being sold at the school bookstore. Petis and Blankman were pleased to put this out and hope to continue the tradition. They are willing to accept any photographic contributions, containing scenes of the campus. If anyone is interested, he or she can see these gen- tlemen at Lamont House. Senior Thesis Theme 1985 ***** The sooner you fall behind the more time you have to catch-up! ***** ·c: 10 N s::: Ill u 10 ... 10 u >- .c E 0 .s::: a.

Page6 The 1985 Yearbook On Sale In Carnegie January 21-25 1 0:30·3:30 It's Not Just A Senior Book! Last chance to buy it for $25 The week after it goes up to $30.00 The Bloodmobile Is Coming February 13, -14 & 15 The need for Type 0 Blood is greatest but A and B are in short supply as well Strauss Lounge 11 a.m.-4 p.m. CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1985 Your Bahamas College Week Includes: • Round-trip air transportation froin your home city to Bahamas • 7 Nights accommodation in Freeport (Freeport Inn-casual club like hotel located downtown, next to El Casino and opposite to International Bazaar) or Nassau (Dolphin or Atlantis Hotel-ideally located across the street from the beach within walking distance to everything). Price based on quad occupancy. Triple add-$50.00 Double add $100.00 • Roundtrip airport/hotel transfers • Hotel room tax • Gratuities for bellman, chamermaids and poolman • College Week activities-sports, parties, music, fun. Hotel Options Nassau-Add $50.00 for deluxe Sheraton British Colonial, add $60.00 for deluxe Pilot House Hotel Freeport-Add $50.00 for first class Windward Palms Hotel. ····-----------------······ • ! E~lt19: I HOLIDAYS INC. I 501 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10022 212-355-4 705/800-223·0694 (reservations only) Bahf:!mas College Weeks 0 Jan 5-Jan 12 · D Jan 12-Jan 19 0 Mar 23-Mar 30 D Jan 19-Jan 26 D Mar 30-Apr 6 0 Feb 23-Mar 02 D Apr 6-Apr 13 D M.ar 02-Mar 09 0 Apr 13-Apr 20 0 Mar 09-Mar 16 D Apr 20-Apr 27 0 Mar 16-Mar 23 D Apr 27-May 04 D May 04-May 11 D May 11-May 18 D May 18-May 25 CJ .May 2 5-J une 01 0 June 01-June 08 0 June 08-June 15 0 June 1 5-June 22 I I Check One: C FREEPORT Cl NASSAU Occupancy 0 Triple 0 Double 1 (Sat. departures) (Sat. departures) 0 Quad I Sounds good. I've checked the week I want to party and enclosed a $100 deposit. I NAME SCHOOL I I ROOMMATES I I ADDRESS DEPARTURE CITY I I CITY STATE ZIP PHNO. 1 *All prices plus 15% tax and services. Price based on departures from Campus Rep/Office I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I New York (for Washington, D.C./Baltimore I & Boston add $40). Each traveler must fill out separate form. I Prices will rise $25 on January 1-Book Now. I . ·I _____ .._ ________ . ---·--- .I

Page6 The 1985 Yearbook On Sale In Carnegie January 21-25 1 0:30 .. 3~30 It's Not Just A Senior Book! Last chance ~o buy it for $25 The week after it goes up to $30.00 Thfe ~~~~dm ~~~ is Coming February 13, 14 & 15 The need for Type 0 Blood is gre@test but A and B mre in short supply as well Strauss lounge 11 Gsm. <»4 p.mo CONCORDJENSIS, January 17,1985 Your Bahamas College Week Includes: • Round-trip air transportation from your home city to Bahamas • 7 Nights accommodation in Freeport (Freeport Inn-casual club like hotel located downtown, next to El Casino and opposite to International Bazaar) or Nassau (Dolphin or Atlantis Hotel-ideally located across the street from the beach within walking distance to everything). Price based on quad occupancy. Triple add-$50.00 Double add$ I 00.00 • Roundtrip airport/hotel transfers • Hotel room tax • Gratuities for bellman, chamermaids and poolman • College Week activities-sports, parties, music, fun. Hotel Options Nassau-Add $50.00 for deluxe Sheraton British Colonial, add $60.00 for deluxe Pilot House Hotel Freeport-Add $50.00 for first class Windward Palms Hotel. -----------------·········· ; f~'i~G® 212-355-4 705/800-223-0694 (reservations only) I INrE:~OLLEGIATE I HOLIDAYS INC. I 501 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10022 Bahamas College Weeks = Jan 5-Jan 12 = Jan 12-Jan 19 ~ Mar 23-Mar 30 =: Jan 1 9-Jan 26 L Mar 30-Apr 6 = Feb 23-Mar 02 .~ Apr 6-Apr 13 :=: Mar 02-Mar 09 L: Apr 13-Apr 20 ~~-- Mar 09-Mar 16 L Apr 20-Apr 2 7 Check One: = Mar 16-Mar 23 = Apr 27-May 04 =~ FREEPORT ~ NASSAU Occupancy = May 04-May 11 L: May 11-May 18 '--May 18-May 25 C May 25-June 01 C June 01-June 08 C June 08-June 15 C June 15-June 22 I I I I (Sat. departures) (Sat. departures) :_: Quad = Triple ;:::: Double Sounds good. I've checked the week I want to party and enclosed a $100 deposit. I NAME SCHOOL I I ROOMMATES I I ADDRESS •. DEPARTURE CITY I I CITY STATE ZIP PHNO. 1 *All prices plus 15% tax and services. Price based on departures from I New York (for Washington, D.C./Baltimore Campus Rep/Office I & Boston add $40). Each traveler must fill out separate form. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ·I I Prices will rise $25 on January 1-Book Now. ___ . ____ a~. ------------------

CONCORDIENSIS, January 17. 1985 Page7 FEATURES Cure the Blues: Winter Carnival By KATHY KEAVENEY Need a surefire way to cute · the midwinter Schenectady blues? Then get involved in Union College's Winter Car- nival! The event is sponsored by the Union CoHege Social Committee and will take place the weekend of February 1-3, 1985. It promises to be a terrific time for all. The first event has been sponsored and planned jointly with Mountebanks, the campus drama group. ·A professiop.al touring group will be coming on campus to give a one night production of the Tony Award winning musical. \Ain't Misbehavin'. '' The show will take place Thursday, January 17, 1985 at 8:00p.m. The group has received excellent reviews and it should be a super show. Tickets are $5.00 per person and are available in Carnegie Hall. The week of January 15-17, the Social Coriunittee will also be selling special Winter Carnival hot chocolate mugs in Carnegie Hall. The mugs are brightly decorated with the famed Union Dutchman. 'The cast of ,each mug is $2.00 and ownership will allow the lucky owner to get free hot checolate any time in Carnegie throughout Winter Carnival Weekend. In addition ta the regular sale times, the mugs can be purchased from Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities office at any time. Definitely a great buy!! Another event which will be taking place between now and Winter Carn.ival weekend is a Snow Sculpture Contest. Due to the sporadic snowfall which has characterized recent Schenectady winters, members of the Social Committee have decided to encourage people to create snow sculptures any time between now and February 3. When the sculp- tures are completed, photographs will be taken and all sculpture.s will be judged the weekend of the Carnival. Prizes will include free tickets to a -show at Proctors and free dinners at various local restaurants. . Many of the other activities Luncheon Colloquium Series Winter/Spring 1985 Banquet Room, Carnegie, 12:30 PM Tuesday, January 2 2 \Women's Health in the SO's\ Lisa Harvey, M.D. Thursday, February 7 \Making Spectacles of Themselves: Women & Film\ llrenda Wmeapple, Associate Professor of English, Union College (Introduces the Thursday Evening February Film Series) Tuesday, March 5 \Women in a Man's World: The Stresses of Getting There & Staying Ther•\ Panel dascussion with Lisa Fried, Leise! Golden, Betty Jenkins, Lou Ann Kuntz, and Susan Lipton. Wednesday, April 17 ''Contributions of Women i~ the History or Music\ Musica Fern ina Tuesday, April 30 \Sexual Harassment, Sexual Attraction,&. Professional Ethics\ Gloria DeSole, Asst. io the President for Affirmative Action, SUNY A Thursday, May 23 \Women and French Tragedy\ Helen McDermott, AS!istant Professor of French, Unton College Bring your lunch-- coffee and tea will be provided'. for Winter Carnival are still in the planning stages. Tee-shirts will be sold for $5.00 and buttons and frisbees will all be available to commemorate the event. An all-campus cross-country skiing event is planned for Friday afternoon. Friday night wi:ll feature a Dance Party in Alumni Gym with a local band. All fraternities and sororities have been asked to contribute to the party and have agreed not to schedule any other parties for that night. Saturday night will be Go Garnet Go! ! night at Achilles rink as the Union Dutchmen skate against Merrimack at 7: 30 p.m. The game will be followed by a Pub Party featuring a local DJ. The final event of the · weekend will be Sunday Brunch in Dutch Hollow Pub. All meal card holders will be able to use their punches and others may purchase the meal for a nominal fee. It's sure to be -a treat from the standard West College fare. So set aside the dates and get ready for Winter Carnival '85! ! Carl Bernstein to visit campus on January 23, 1985. Reporter Speaks: Scandal- Breaker On Wednesday, January 23, 1985, at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, the Union Collete Speakers Forum will proudly present Carl Bernstein, the a.ward wirm.ing reporter. Carl Bernstein is half of the famed Woodward and Bernstein reporting team which broke the Watergate scandal wide open. He and Woodward won every major journalism award, in- cluding the 1973 Pulitzer Prize, for their reporting on Watergate. · The book, All The President's Men was written when Wood- ward and Bernstein decided to tell the \story behind the story.\ The book traces the reporters' steps from the Watergate break-in to the beginning of the Senate hearings eleven months later. It was hailed by journalists and media critics alike as a \casebook on news reporting\ and a \classic in the art of political reportage.'' After some initial reser- vations, Woodward and Bern- stein decided to sell the rights to All The President's Men to Robert Redford. Redford, Dustin Hoffman and director Alan J. Paltula then made the blockbuster movie of the same name, working closely with the two reporters to insure the film's accuracy and authen- ticity. Urged to continue the story started in All The President's Men Woodward and Bernstein began work on \The Final Days\ which detailed Nixon's last fifteen months in office, with special emphasis on the last two weeks. The book was released in April, 1976 and shot straight to the top of the New York Times' bestseller list. It stayed near the top for six months. Bernstein will be at Memorial Chapel on January 23, 1985 so don't miss this opportunity. And remember, the first 25 people to sign up in Mrs. Marra's office will be able to attend a special reception in Milano Lounge following the speaker. So, come meet Carl Bernstein. The First Railroad Route Since last March, Union -College senior John C. DeMis has had a single train of thought: researching and mapping the route of the state's first railroad, built between Albany and Schenectady in the 1830s. The fruits of his suc- cessful efforts were recently presented to the City of Schenectady, and the civil engineering major received a citation from the city honoring his \important and significant contribution to the ongoing historical efforts in the city and the Capital District.\ The project began as in- dependent study under the guidance of Prof. Francis Griggs. Griggs had been con- tacted by Francis A. Poulin, area chronologist and historian, who. suggested the project in connection with the sesquicentennial of the founding of the Mohawk and Hudson Railroad. DeMis, a full-time evening division student now living in East Berne, has worked on and off for area land surveyors while completing his degree requirements. He saw the railroad project as an in- teresting independent study assignment which would hone his research skills. His research skills were certainly put to the test, as nearly all records of the original route were missing. But months of diligent work on site, in libraries and in government and College archives resulted in the 94-page report, printed with funds · from the Civil Engineering Department. Complete with several detailed maps, the report traces the original railroad \to within the nearest foot,\ Griggs said. \We actually think it's even better than that, but we'll be modest.\ The Mohawk and Hudson Railroad was incorporated in 1826, and ground was broken in 1830, funded primarily by area philanthropist Stephen Van Rensselaer. The purpose of the history-making track, Griggs explained, was largely to avoid all the locks required on the Erie Canal by the 240-foot difference between the Mohawk and the sea-level Hudson River. Passengers and freight would travel across state on the canal, be transferred to the railroad until Albany, and then resume the canal route. The route DeMis traced thus began at the Erie Canal, travelled along what now is Erie Boulevard to Weaver Street, up Crane Street to Chrisler Avenue, and Chrisler to th,e existing railroad line west to Albany. Copies of DeMis's report will be on file in Union's Civil Engineering Department, at the Schenectady County Historical Society and the Albany Institute of History and Art.. At a brief presentation of the report before the City Council, DeMis received the thanks of City Historian Larry Hart and Mayor Karen B. Johnson. DeMis is a native of Fuera Bush, and the son of Joseph DeMis, Union Class of 1950. He completes his degree requirements this term and plans to take a few classes on campus next term. \I hope to be gainfully employed by the end of the winter term,\ he said. Looking back on his research project, DeMis describes it as \an enjoyable challenge.\

CONCORDJENS/S, January 17, 1985 Page7 FEATURES #I ;w ,,,., :nn. wre- w · - t ¥5WM'& : lL·to; u m x AMM¥P' tBA •• MW!:WM W&PSM- Mti&:tti®¥!&& #41§!§§@@fJM¥¥ m;EWt&& trm:t::&:::u:t -· ::z: F:' \t :: ' e: : ~ Cure the Blues: Winter Carnival By KATHY KEAVENEY ~eed a surefire way to cure the midwinter Schenectady blues? Then get involved in Union College's Win.ter Car- nival! The event is sponsored by the Union College Social Committee and will take place the weekend of February 1-3, 1985. It promises to be a terrific time for all. The first event has been sponsored and planned jointly with Mountebanks, the campus drama group. A professional touring group will be coming on campus to give a one night production of the Tony Award winning musical \Ain't Misbehavin'.\ The show will take place Thursday, January 17, 1985 at 8:00p.m. The group has received excellent reviews and it should be a super show. Tickets are $5.00 per person and are available in Carnegie Hall. The week of January 15-17, the Social Committee will also be selling special Winter Carnival hot chocolate mugs in Carnegie Hall. The mugs are brightly decorated with the famed Union Dutchman. The cost of each mug is $2.00 and ownership will allow the lucky owner to get free hot chocolate any time in Carnegie throughout Winter Carnival Weekend. In addition to the regular sale times, the mugs can be purchased from Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities office at any time. Definitely a great buy!! Another event which will be taking place between now and Winter Carnival weekend is a Snow SculptHre Contest. Due to the sporadic snowfall which has characterized recent Schenectady winters, members of the Social Committee have decided to encourage people to create snow sculptures any time between now and February 3. When the sculp- tures are completed, photographs will be taken and all sculptures will be judged the weekend of the Carnival. Prizes will include free tickets to a show at Proctors and free dinners at various local restaurants. . Many of the other activities ~\?frB:~~ i.Jz'PML... for Winter Carnival are still in the planning stages. Tee-shirts will be sold for $5.00 and buttons afld frisbees will all be available to commemorate the event. An all-campus cross-country skiing event is planned for Friday afternoon. Friday night will feature a Dance Party in Alumni Gym with a local band. Ali fraternities and sororities have been asked to contribute to the party and have agreed not to schedule any other parties for that night. Saturday night will be Go Garnet Go! ! night at Achilles rink as the Union Dutchmen skate against Merrimack at 7:30 p.m. The game will be followed by a Pub Party featuring a local DJ. The final event of the weekend will be Sunday Brunch in Dutch Hollow Pub. All meal card holders will be able to use their punches and others may purchase the meal for a nominal fee. It's sHre to be a treat from the standard West College fare. So set aside the dates and get ready for Winter Carnival '85!! Carl Bernstein to visit campus on January 23, 1985. Reporter Speaks: Scandal-Breaker On Wednesday, January 23, 1985, at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, the Union Collete Speakers Forum will proudly present Carl Bernstein, the a.ward winning reporter. Carl Bernstein is half of the famed Woodward and Bernstein reporting team which broke the Watergate scandal wide open. He and Woodward won every major journalism award, in- cluding the 1973 Pulitzer Prize, for their reporting on Watergate. All The President's Men to Robert Redford. Redford, Dustin Hoffman and director Alan J. Pakula then made the blockbuster movie of the same name, working closely with the two reporters to insure the film's accuracy and authen- ticity. Urged to continue the story started in All The President's Men Woodward and Bernstein began work on \The Final Days\ which detailed Nixon's last fifteen months in office, with special emphasis on the last two weeks. The book was released in April, 1976 and shot straight to the top of the New York Times' bestseller list. It stayed near the top for six months. \1. K~Oll! \.a\,~ t\~ N\CAAA~UA,,'' The book, All The President's Men was written when Wood- ward and Bernstein decided to tell the \story behind the story.\ The book traces the reporters' steps from the Watergate break-in to the beginning of the Senate hearings eleven months later. It was hailed by journalists and media critics alike as a \casebook on news reporting\ and a \classic in the art of political reportage.\ After some initial reser- vations, Woodward and Bern- stein decided to sell the rights to Bernstein will be at Memorial Chapel on January 23, 1985 so don't miss this opportunity. And remember, the first 25 people to sign up in Mrs. Marra's office will be able to attend a special reception in Milano Lounge following the speaker. So, come meet Carl Bernstein. Luncheon Colloquium Series Winter/Spring 1985 Ranquet Room. Carnegie, 12:30 PM Tuesday, January 2 2 .. Women's Health in the 80's\ Ltsa Harvey, MD. Thursday, February 7 \Making Spectacles or Themselv<>: Women & Film\ Rrenda Wmeapple, Assoctate Professor of Enghsh. Umon College (Introduces the Thursday Evemng February Ftlm Senes) Tuesday, March 5 \Women in a Man's World: The Str<s..cs of Getting There & Staying There\ Panel dtscussJOn w1th L1sa Fned, Le1sel Golden, Betty Jcnktns, Lou Ann Kuntz, and Susan Lipton. Wednesday, Apnl I 7 '\Contributions of Women in the History of Music\ Musica Femtna Tuesday, Aprtl 30 \Snual Harassment, Sexual Attraction, & Proressional Ethics\ Glona DeSole, Asst. to the PreSident for Affirmallve Actton, SUNY A Thursday, !VIav 23 \Women and French Tragedy\ Helen Me Dermott, Asststant Professor of French, Umon College Bnng your lunch-- coffee and tea will be provtded\. The First Railroad Route Since last March, Union College senior John C. DeMis has had a single train of thought: researching and mapping the route of the state's first railroad, built between Albany and Schenectady in the 1830s. The fruits of his suc- cessful efforts were recently presented to the City of Schenectady, and the civil engineering major received a citation from the city honoring his \important and significant contribution to the ongoing historical efforts in the city and the Capital District.\ The project began as in- dependent study under the guidance of Prof. Francis Griggs. Griggs had been con- tacted by Francis A. Poulin, area chronologist and historian, who suggested the project in connection with the sesquicentennial of the founding of the Mohawk and Hudson Railroad. DeMis, a full-time evening division student now living in East Berne, has worked on and off for area land surveyors while completing his degree requirements. He saw the railroad .project as an in- teresting independent study assignment which would hone his research skills. His research skills were certainly put to the test, as nearly all records of the original route were missing. But months of diligent work on site, in libraries and in government and College archives resulted in the 94-page report, printed with funds from the Civil Engineering Department. Complete with several detailed maps, the report traces the original railroad \to within the nearest foot,\ Griggs said. \We actually think it's even better than that, but we'll be modest.\ The Mohawk and Hudson Railroad was incorporated in 1826, and ground was broken in 1830, funded primarily by area philanthropist Stephen Van Rensselaer. The purpose of the history-making track, Griggs explained, was largely to avoid all the locks required on the Erie Canal by the 240-foot difference between the Mohawk and the sea-level Hudson River. Passengers and freight would travel across state on the canal, be transferred to the railroad until Albany, and then resume the canal route. The route DeMis traced thus began at the Erie Canal, travelled along what now is Erie Boulevard to Weaver Street, up Crane Street to Chrisler Avenue, and Chrisler to the existing railroad line west to Albany. Copies of DeMis's report will be on file in Union's Civil Engineering Department, at the Schenectady County Historical Society and the Albany Institute of History and Art. At a brief presentation of the report before the City Cotmcil, DeMis received the thanks of City Historian Larry Hart and Mayor Karen B. Johnson. DeMis is a native of Fuera Bush, and the son of Joseph DeMis, Union Class of 1950. He completes his degree requirements this term and plans to take a few classes on campus next term. \I hope to be gainfully employed by the end of the winter term,\ he said. Looking back on his research project, DeMis describes it as \an enjoyable challenge.\

Page~ SUPERBOWL SUNDAY January 20, 1985 at the Dutch Hollow Pub Starting at 4:30p.m. MAn'S DRAn BEER . PIZZA • TACOS Any of the above for only $.50 each plus free popcorn & potato chips Buy the Matt's beer mug for $1.25 and refill them for only $.50 and keep the mug · The Union College Philosophy Department is pleased to announce the first COLLOQUIUM of Winter Term 1985 Levi-Strauss and Michel Foucault In Africa Valentine Mudimbe Haverford College January 18, 1985 (Friday) 4:00p.m. All colloquia are held in the Humanities Bldg., Rm. 213 ' Receptions Afterwards Held in Humanities Lounge Colloquia are open to the public; • for further information call Marianne Snowden {518) 370-6376 ''Let It Snow''. // Winter Carnival ~ Snow Sculpture Contest WHEN: From now until the start of Winter Carnival--Feb. 1 You build, we judge. Prizes awarded according to the following categories: 1. Chester Arthur's Pet' 2, Best Replica of the Nott Memorial 3. Best Figure Study 4. Most Original 5. Most Humorous GRAND PRIZE: Two tickets to ''Marcel Marcea\ donated by Proctor's, Feb. 23rd. OTHER PRIZES: Dinner for 2 at area restaurants. When your sculpture is built Call: Nancy at 346-1068 Winners to be announced at Winter Carnival Dan_ce,. Feb. 1 ··~·~-' Yearbook Meeting TOday 7:30 in the- Yearbook Office 4th Floor Carnegie We Need Your Help! AN INVITATION The Peschel Computer Center is pleased to in.vite the campus community to an Open House on Wednesday, ·January 23, 1985: Tours of the Center and demonstrations of equipment will be held beginning at 3:30 - p.m., and running through 7 p.m. · Please come and see the latest additions to computing at Union. Refreshments will be served. . DISCOVER GAR~@Y) ANGER!. 1 • When - you're angry do you • • • a) put your fist through the wall b) rant & rave c) eat a gallon of ice cream d) turn up the stereo e) go to sleep f) talk it out Whatever your style come ioin us! ' 1 Dealing With Anger?'' u c Thursday, January 17•4-5:30 p.m. Banquet Room, Carnegie (across from Pizza Pub) Hot drinks & refreshments FREE Sponsored by Women's Support Group

CONCORDIENSIS, Jimuary 17, 1985 Page9 COMMENTARIES Remembering a Brother During this week of Jan. 13, we the Brothers of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Incorporated remember a fellow Brother of Alpha: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Jan. 15, 1986 marks the date that his birthday becomes an official holiday; a day that has been long in coming. We find no reason to delay a celebration, or a remembrance of the\ ac- complishments of a great man. David L. Lewis, who wrote a biography on Bro. Martin Luther King, said \He was a rare personality, endowed with an ample intelligence, great courage and convictions, and an arresting presence.'' In describing King's career, in cyclone-like references, he explained: \it struck in Mon- tgomery and picked him up and swirled him into fame across the South in a succession of blinding touchdowns. In Selma its velocity slowed, and in Chicago and Mississippi it stopped almost completely. But perhaps in Memphis, or perhaps shortly thereafter, Martin would have demon- strated that he had learned the cyclone's secret, that he possessed within himself the power sufficient to sustain the motion of all that nonviolence had come to embody.\ LETTERS We remember the great civil r;ights leader who was a strong believer in the power of non- violence. He once said: \We've come to see that this method is not a weak method. For it's the strong .man who can stand up amid opposition ... you see, this methodhas a way of disarming the opponent. It exposes his moral defenses . . . \. We remember the year 1956, the Golden Anniversary of our fraternity. In this year, Brother Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. received the Alpha Award of the Year £or being an Alpha man, ready, willing, and able to give leadership in a period of American advance in democracy. In his acceptance speech entitled \The Birth of a New Age'', he presented 3 bases of action: \(1) Rise above our individual concerns to broader activity; (2) Ability to achieve excellence; (3) Preparation to live with understanding and goodwill.\ These beliefs have become an intricate part of Alpha Phi Alpha. King also received the Alpha Award of Honor in recognition of \Christian leadership in the cause of first-class citizenship for all mankind.\ We remember the year 1964; the year the Nobel Peace Pr~e was awarded to King, a significant world honor to our Alpha Brother who had been a consistent member of his fraternity and had been assisted by his Brothers in his actiVe service in the Civil Rights !\'fovement. When he accepted the Nobel Peace Prize in Oslo, he said: \I believe that unar- med truth and unconditional love wiH have the final word in reality . . . yet when the years have rolled past and when the lazing Ught of truth is focused on this marvelous age in which we live-men and women will know and children will be taught that we have a finer land, a better people, a more noble civilization-because these hmnble children of God were willing to suffer for righteousness sake\. . This brings· us to the most important reason for remembering Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.~and that is- that he was an undaunted champion of peace, one who died for freedom. The Brothers of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Incorporated (Union College Pre-Chapter) Pre-Registration to Improve To the Editor, Anyone who was at Alumni Gym the morning of Wednesday November 14 to pick up reservation cards for Winter Term Preregistration en- countered a chaotic, frustrating and demoralizing situation. In retrospect a number of things probably could and should have been done differently to help ensure a more efficient and safer process. However, that event is n9w history and what occurred that morning can not be changed. What can be done is to make sure that future preregistrations are organized in such a way that students can prer~gister with as little in- convenience as possible. We think that the new computer system which has just been activated will provide for this. Briefly, students will receive preregistration materials (a preregistration form and a course-section schedule) on the Monday of the 8th week. Those . departments that choose to use lists will post them Wednesday of that week. Students will return to those departments to receive reservation cards for these list courses on Friday. Starting Monday of the 9th week students will come to the Registrar's Office in Silliman Hall to preregister. Each student will receive an ap- pointment time for preregistration. No one will be admitted for preregistration prior to their appointment time. Preregistration will take four days with a quarter of the student body preregistering each day. Except for the reservation cards used for list courses, no cards will be in- volved. Based on the e:1rperiences of other colleges that use similar processes, it is expected that such a preregistration will take no more than 15 minutes of a student's time and should not involve waiting in lines. Hopefully, this will be viewed as a significant improvement over our previous practices. The most recent preregistration was an experience that none of us wish to see repeated. With the aid of our new computer system we expect that students will never again be subjected to such an event. Instead, they should encounter a preregistration process as quick and agreeable as is possible. Dwight S. Wolf Registrar c-ommentaries Represent the Views of the Author and not the Editorial Board of Con- cordiensis. Transcript Costs Question. How can the Registrar's Office make a neat little surn of money? Answer. By nickel and diming the student body through transcript fees. This infonnation is not meant to strike panic into the pocket books of all prospective graduate schol students, that initial transcript is still free upon request. However, it is that second, third, fourth, and so on transcript, where the Registrar really makes a profit. Up until recently an official or unofficial transcript cou1d be obtained from the Registrar at $1 per copy. The thrifty student, if he or she had a mind to, would order one tmofficial copy and xerox multiple copies at his or her own expense at a nickel per sheet at Schaffer Library. If, however, the unfortunate student needed an official copy or two or three (as many students do for graduate school applications and prospective employers) he or she had to pay $1 for each copy. Most students probably believed that $1 was a pretty high price to pay for such a service, but they were willing to do so out of necessity. However, now at an unannounced 100% rate hike, students may think twice about the price and grumble a bit louder over it, but inevitably they again. have no choice in the matter. The question is, why the high price? The cost of xeroxing is still a nickel per copy is it not? All the Registrar's Office has to do is xerox one transcript copy, stamp it with either an unofficial or official red seal and the work is done (unless of course one in- cludes the labor of sealing the offiJcial copy in a stamped, addressed envelope supplied by the student). Unless the cost of ink has sharply risen or the labor involved deserves such a fee, the $2 charge, let alone the $1, is too high. The Registrar must be malting quite a lucrative sum off the student who must send a nwnber of transcripts out to graduate schools. It would be nice to know what the money collected is being used for . . . spring break in Ber- muda anyone? Computer Choice In answer to complaints from faculty that the ad- ministration did not consult them before purchasing the new computer system, a committee has been formed to formulate college computer policy. This committee, comprised of administrators, faculty members, and students, will ''establish campus-wide principles, goals, and guidelines meeting the com- puting needs of the academic program.\ This is yet -another case of the administration setting up a student-faculty committee after, and not before, an important administrative decision had been made. How convenient. Student and faculty input is essential in the development of a computer policy. Thesis students, research projects, faculty research, in-class studies, · computer students, administrators, . and staff, all need the computer facilities and would benefit greatly from increased usage in all sectors of the community. The administration has, and will continue to, at- tempt to limit the use of the word processing and computing services. It is up to the student body and the faculty organizatiqns to insure that these services are not confined to tldministrative matters. We, as members of the Union community, are entitled to full access of these services. All too often the ad- ministration of the college seems to forget or ignore this. We will remind them. Each Thursday at noon the Co_ncordiensis is dropped off ·at Carnegie. PLEASE help carry a stack or two ~nto Carnegie on your way in if possible •. Thank you.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1985 FELLOWSHIPS Superior college seniors and graduate students who intend to become consulting engineers in the applied ·earth sciences are eligible for the Woodward-clyde Fellowship that will be awarded in 1985. The fellowship provides $4,000 a year living expenses for two years, full tuition and academi~ fees for those years, up to $1,500 in related thesis research costs. Applicants must be seniors working toward or graduate students who already have undergraduate degrees in civil engineering or geology from accredited university or college programs who plan to enter the applied earth sciences field. For more information, you can contact: Steve Church, Assistant Director, Information and Communications, 202-346- 7474. SPEAKERS Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar at Union College Jan. 17' 18. The Union College Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa will host David P. Billington, professor of civil engineering at Princeton University as this year's visiting scholar. He will be on campus Monday and Tuesday, Jan. 17 and 18, participating in classes and holding informal. meetings with faculty and students. Save These Dates February 1· 3 Winter Carnival Keep your eyes open for more information Billington will give a lecture on \Bridges as an Art Form \ Thursday, Jan. 17, at 8 p.m. in Old Chapel, which is free and open to the public. He will talk with faculty and invited guests o~ \Teaching Engineering to Liberal Arts Students\ Friday, Jan.l8, at3 p.m. in the Phi Beta Kappa Room, Schaffer Library. CLUB-NEWS A performance of \Ai-n't Misbehavin' \ will take place at Union College Thursday, Jan. 17, at 8 p.m. in the Nott Memorial. Daedalus Productions, a touring Boradway company, will perform. Tickets are $5 and will be on sale at the Carnegie Hall Ticket Booth on campus. The performance is sponsored by the Social Committee, Dance Club and Mountebanks. For further information, call 370-6118. All Union students that enjoy singing are invited to audition for the newly formed Union College Choir. Audition sign ups in the Arts Office, or contact Prof. Wilson. Folk Grou~unday evenings at 6:30 p.m. singers and musicians meet with Friar Paul in St. John the Evangelist Church to prepare for the 7:30 Mass. New members welcome. Prayer-Scripture Study Group-Monday, January 21 at 5 p.m. with Sr. Joan in the Religious Programs Office, 4th Floor, Carnegie. Martin Luther King Observance-Monday, January 21st students will meet in front of Carnegie at 7 p.m. to drive to Temple Gates of Heaven to hear Rabbi Bernard Bloom speak on Martin Luther King. Anyone interested in attending please call Religious Programs Office 370-6087. Tutorial Program-Any Union student interested in tutoring Reading one hour a week to primarily second graders of St. John the Evangelist School please contact Liz Karazim 370-6774. , Newman Retreat-January 25th-26th an overnight retreat on \Trust\ from Friday at five until Saturday at five at St. Anthony-on-Hudson, 'Rensselaer. Donation of $5 when you register with Sr. Joan. Reception for Bisbop··The Newman Club will host a pepsi and pizza reception for Bishop ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENGINEERING SYSTEMS COLLOQUIUM January 17-DAVID APPEL Assistant Vice President and Director of Economic and Social Research at the National Council on Compensation Insurance. \Financial Aspects of Insurance Regulation\ January 24-AIDAN KIRWAN Vice Consul of Ireland \Economic and Industrial Development in Ireland\ January 31-MARVIN ZEPF Small Business Administration \I'm from the Government and I am here to help you\ The colloquiums are held on Thursdays from 3:45~ 5:00p.m. in Bailey Hall, Room 312. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • BAND PARTY • • • • • • • • AT • • • • • • DELTA CHI • • • • • • • • • • f/Jeet lJeod • • . llo,d • • ~\\e • • • • Fri., Jan. 18th at 9:30 p.m. with • • • • • • SLIPKNOT • • • • sounds of Santana, Allmans~~ Dead, Dire Straits, • • • • The Band, etc. • - ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Howard Hubbard at 9 p.m. in the Dutch Hollow Pub. All are invited to come and talk with the Bishop following his celebration of the 7:30 . p.m. Mass at St. John the Evangelist Church. HELP WANTED Utility worker, morning hours, Apply at the Rathekellar. Counterperson, lunch shift, 12; 00 noon to 4: 00 p.m., Tuesday and Thursday. Apply at the Rathskellar. GOVERNMENT JOBS. $15,000-$50,000-yr. possible. All occupations. How to find. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. R-6382. The Student Conservation Association,. Inc, announces that it is accepting requests for applications for the 1985 Park, Ji\'orest and Resource Assistants Program. Interested people should send a postcard requesting a \1985 PFRA Program List\ and an application from 'the Student Conservation Association, Inc., P.O. Box 550, Dept. CPR, Charlestown, New Hampshire 03603. The telephone nwnber is (603) 826-5206. The deadline for receipt of applications for SUMMER Park, Forest and Resource Assistants Program is March 1. The Foreign and Domestic Teachers Organization needs teacher applicants ,in all fields from Kindergarten through College to fill over siX hundred teaching vacancies both at home and abroad. Should you wish additional information about our organization, you may write The National Teachers' Placement Agency, Universal Teachers, Box 5231, Portland Oregon 97208. ·' Futniture store needs stropg help to do work pertaining to furniture store. Part time help available for those who can drive a van. RAS Furniture, 823 Eastern Ave. 374-7785. CLASS! REDS Students from New York State and Puerto Rico are eligible to enter the regional · competition and compete for cash grants and trophies for outstanding achievement in four categories: animation documentary, dramatic and experimental. After the regional selections are made, '~···············~····························· ~ Luncheon Colloquium i ~ Winter I Spring 19 85 ! ~ ~ : Tuesday I January 22 : ~ ~ ! ~~women's Health in the 80's\ ! ~ ~ : Lisa Harvey I M.D. ! ! Dr. Harvey is a practitioner of holistic ! . t medicine. She emphasizes preventive medicine, ! t and treats all aspects of the pati'ent's live, not • t just physical symptoms. ! t A We.st Virginian by birth, Dr. Harvey has :t t lived in New York State for the past five years. ! ~ She received her undergraduate degree from :t t West Virginia University and her. medical ! t degree from the Bowman Gray School of -tc ! Medicine at Wake Forest University. She is ! ! presently.affiliatedwithCHP. ! ~ Banquet Room £ : Carnegie; 12:30 p.m. £ ! Bring your lunch--Coffee & tea provided : .................................................... ,. ....... .. ACROSS 1 Grain 4 Srrplll factories 9 Guido's high note 12 By way of 13 Labors 14 Vigor: colloq. 15 Everyone 16 Partner 17 Disturbance 18 In good season 20 Laugh 21 Note of scale 23·Pigpen 24 Easy to do 28 Wine cup 30 Sweated 32 Strokes 34 Anglo-Saxon money 35 Title of respect 36 MIMisslpp! River side-wheelers 39 City in lra·n 40 Caught sight of 41 Article 43 Suri god 44 Again: prefix 45 Athletic groups 47 Nobleman 50 Young salmon 51 Playing card 54 Cravat 55 Trio 56 Be In debt 57 Skill 58 ·pays attention • 59 Damp DOWN 1 Eggs 2 Belli 3 Story 4 Begins 5 Motion-picture capital Answers in Next Week's Issue 6 Unctuous 9 Slender finial 7 work at one' 8 10 Sign of ~odiac trade 1 1 Likely 17 Sped 8 Steamship: 19 Equally abbr • 20 Head covering .,.....,,..,.,....,'=\\\' 21 Fall into disuse 22 Or!ental nurses ~~~ 24 Showered praise upon --l--li---l 25 Country of Asia 26 Nocturnal mammal 27 Dropsy 29 Above and touching 1\\'-1--+-+--+--1--1 31 Pllching stat. 33 Whirling motion ~+--1--1--1 37 Insect 38 Portions h,-,~:..,._f <42 Printer's measure --'--' <45 Mountain lake <46 Pack away <47 Schad. abbr • 48 Ventilate 49 soak 50 Greek letter .....1---l~ 52 Female sheep ..., 53 Openwork fabric ....-1---li--1 55 Symbol lor _thulium·

Matclll. needs fields through both at our write strong to help can 823 York are regional· for for in and the made, al lac lng use ·ses \sia I. lion CONCORDJENSIS, Ja~tuary 17, 1985 Page ll semi-finalists will compete against films chosen in six other regions. To .be eligible, fihns must have been completed after April 1, 1984, in a student-teacher relationship within the curriculum of an accredited school. For more details, contact Ms. JoAnn Hanley, The ::. American Museum of the Moving Image, 34-12 36th Street, Astoria, New York 11106, 618-7844520. Guitar lessons-on campus, adjustable schedule with very reasonable rates. can 6975 and ask for Todd. Walt Disney World talent scouts wiil be auditioning for professional dancers, singers and musical theatre performers as well as college band dancers and instrumentalists. Further information is available by writing Disney Audition Tour '85, P.O. Box 40, Lake Buena Vista, FL 32830. (Call· 305-824-5478 Monday- Friday.) The National Association for Campus Activities announces its fi.rst Prize Papers Competition offering cash prizes totaling $1,200, open to undergraduate and graduate students, as well as faculty or staff of a business related to the college entertaimnent market. Competition papers must be original, unpublished works on a topic about or related to campus activities programming, such as management, volunteerism, leadership training and development, fine arts, film-video, contemporary entertainment, travel, recreation-leisure, prefessional development · and special constituencies. Papers must be FREE TRAVEL eight to f:ifteen pages, typed and double-spaced. Entry deadHne for the competition is July 1, 1985. Winners will be announced on er about September 1, 1985, and winning entries will be published in a Prize Papers Competitian issue of Programming in December 1985. For further information, contact NACA, P.O. Box 6828, Columbia, SC 29260, 803-782- 7121. The Dodge divisic;m of Chrysler Corporation is sponsoring a nationwide marketing competition offering full-time graduate students an opportunity to share $10,000 in scholarships fo:r promoting the 1985 Dodge Daytona. The competition is open to full-time graduate students in participating accredited college or university graduate schools in the United States. The students need not be students of marketing. For more information contact: Tom Houston-Moon Mullins (313) 956-5346. ·PERSONALS . Mollywpoo! Here's a personal just for you from 5,000 miles away so you better read Concordy this week. How's the action in the room. Party for me. Mudslides forever! Enjoy winter term-but not too much! (Well, maybe just a little too much.) Shalom, WB Do not leave your purse unattended near the residents of 313 Davidson. These poor women need a new pair of Guess jeans and they are a little short on cash, so they may steal your money. After terrifying the Far East; The Three Slugs return! Is no place safe? Returning Terin Abroad Students Campus Connections wants campus reps to promote Spring Break· trips to Bermuda, Florida & Bahamas. Free travel. High commissions & more. Call Paul person-to- person collect 10-5 (617) 449-1112: (617) 232-3322 6-10 p.m. 1985 Yearbook needs your pictures. Come to the Yearbook Meeting, Thursday, Jan. 17 (today) at 7:30, 4th floor Carnegie (Yearbook Office). Please Bring Your Pictures CLUB HEADS: Advertise your meeting in the ClassUieds .. ~~T~I~.I.t~r.rT.rTrTrTTI~Jil.l~I~I~IJIJIJI~IIIIII A New Year • A New You! - There's a slim new You hiding under those unwanted pounds. You can lose 1 0-30 lbs. THIS MONTH I Guaranteed results with safe, proven formula. Send only $39 (check or money order) for 4 weeks supply to: Car1er Associates, P .0. Box 697 .. ' Hermosa Beach, CA 90254 1... . . rrl·~y·,·v·~~-~l\flll\fiTI\~T·~IIf~ITITITITrriTllfiiTrTI Get ready for: Phi Delta's 8th Annual TACO and TEf4al£ILA Sat., February 2nd After the Hockey Game GREAT DECISIONS Everyone is invited to take part in discussions of the significant foreign issues that face U.S. poHcymakers today: Union College, Strauss lounge, 7:30 Topic · RevolutiQnary Cuba Soviet Leadership in Transition Iran-Iraq War Jan. 16 Jan. 23 Jan. 30 . Budget Deficit, Trade and the Dollar The Philippines Feb. 6 Feb. 13 Feb. 20 Feb. 27 Mar. 6 Population Growth future of the Atlantic Alliance Intelligence Operations ·\ • , , • \r •• , . : ' • • • , , • .: : •• , • ' -.' , ·,.,' :o~:!Cf~~X~i.t!-:<:~~::>:.C<i~!l:~ Unton . College Mugs On Sale! Buy a hot/cold mug for $2.00 in Car- negie and get free hot chocolate during the Winter Carnival! The Winter Carnival will be February I-3rd, I sponsored by Union's Social Committee. K-~~~·,. Due to limited space and excessive demand, Concordiensis will be charging 25¢ per personal request as of Winter term. The money collected wi II be donated at the end of the year to a charitable organization. All orders will be handled directly through the Concordy office on the fourth floor of Carneg·;e Hall. Please pick up order forms at the Box Office and bring them to the office in an en- velope with the total am.ount en- c lased. All orders submitted unaccompanied by the required fee will be refused. We ask that length not exceed four lines. All personals that are obscene or otherwise of- fensive will be refused at the discretion of the editors.

Page 12 THE ARTS Robert DeNiro and Meryl Streep embark upon a bittersweet romance after a chance encounter in Paramount Pictures' \ Falling in Love\. The film is now playing at the Scotia Cinema. CONCORDIENSIS, January 17, 1985 iii Ashkenazy At Proctor's By JANICE C. THOMPSON Arts Staff World-renowned pianist, Vladimir Ashkenazy, per- formed a solo recital at Proc- tor's Theatre Sunday, January 13, at 7 p.m. The program in- cluded works by Sergei Rach- manivov and Frederic Chopin. It is impossible for any music lover to find Ashkenazy anything but captivating. From the first note to the last, he draws his audience irito his music, so that we are as in- volved in it as he is. This was especially apparent in Ashkenazy's first selection, Rachmaninov's Variations on a Theme by CorelU, Op. 42. In the halting, simple theme, as in most of the rest of the music,. he used very little body movement; yet he instilled incredibly intense and quiet emotion in the melody. From this beginning, he carried his listeners through a series of variations, some pensive and mysterious, some playful, some energetic and military. The audience was so enraptured at the climatic end of the variations that there was an audible sigh of relief throughout the theatre when Ashkenazy returened to the theme. At the end of the .piece, he gave a quick, quizzical look to the audience and raised his hands slightly, asiftosay, \That's it. . . do you Iike it?\ The next piece in the program. was 6 Etudes-Tableaux, Op. 3~, also by Rachmaninov. There are characteristically many notes in Rachmaninov, but they never sounded muddy or con- fusing. In this piece, Ashkenazy kept the melodic line steadily continuous. His great strength was especially apparent in these etudes; he played every octave chord as if it weren't any problem to produce such in- tensity. · piece, Scherzo No. 3 in C-sharp minor, Op. 39, is an excellent show piece, with its heavy chords contrasting to the fast, detailed ·runs involving both hands. The audience did not relax from its captivating experience of listening to Ashkenazy play until he struck his last chord. In all, his performance was brilliant, as his concerts around the world are reputed to be. His biographical sketch in the Playbill reports that he has p~rformed Beethoven concertos in Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Vienna, New York and Washington, and Bartok con- certos in San Francisco, Pitt- sburgh and New York. He conducts concerts with the - Philharmonic Orchestra of London, and has reeorded many works as a pianist. Native to Russia, Ashkenazy studied under the direction of Anaida Swnbatian at Moscow's Central Music School. He started touring worldwide after winning First Prize at the Queen Elizabeth Competition in Brussels in 1956. He is living in Luzern, Switzerland now. Production.Falls Flat· After the intermission, Ashkenazy's energy and ability to play extremely cleanly and crisply continued throughout five pieces by Chopin. The Ballade No.4 in F minor, Op. 52, is highly romantic, a piece that starts quietly and that grows gradually more emotional and grandiose as the theme gets more elaborate. The two Nocturnes, nos. 1 and 2, Op. 48, are stately, almost military, while also involving mysterious and dark moods. The Impromptu No. 3 in G-flat major, Op. 51, was an ap- propriate contrast to the noc- turnes that preceeded it, because its mood is more playful and bright. 'l'he last Vladimir Ashkenazy's recital at Proctor's is one performance in a series of programs at the theatre. These concerts, plays, and shows offer a good, cultural opportunity for entertainment for students and professors alike. By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Staff Interpretation is a fragile thing; it can add interesting new dimensions to a piece of artistic work, or it can demolish the careful structure of the original version and destroy even the most celebrated literary masterpiece. Unfor- tunately, the latter is the case with Capital Repertory Com- pany's current staging of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, a production so weak and flat that it seriously tarnishes the brilliance of the work itself. Widely regarded as one of the few classics in contemporary drama, Virginia Woolf centers around the life and interactions of its two main characters, George and Martha. He's a history professor at a small New England college, and she's the daughter of the president. For the last twenty-three years, their marriage has been a whirlpool of disappointments, unfulfilled dreams, and wicked accusations. \Dashed hopes and good intentions. Good, better, best, bested,\ as George says. The play examines one in a long series of liquor-drenched nights in the couple's home, one in which they are \en- tertaining\ a young couple-the new biology professor and his wife. But as soon as the couple arrives, the party rapidly turns into a foray for George and Matha's vicious backstabbing and wicket wordplay. Each character magnifies the other's weaknesses-George's lack of ambition and success in his field, and Martha's growing inability to face reality; namely, the fact that they could never have a child. Along the way, the young couple's marriage is exposed as being based and sustained on falsehoods and deceptions, until the play's climactic conclusion, in which the equally strong tones of comedy and tragedy unite in a harsh cacophony of emotional madness. When done properly, the play is a powerhouse of intricate dialogue, tense drama, complex emotions, and witty comedy. But Capital Rep's current production is sadly deficient in each of these respects. Almost everything that can go wrong with a play is evident here: bad acting, lame direction . . . even the set doesn't seem to fit the characters or the action. The parts of George and Martha (two of the strongest literary characters to have been created in the past twenty-five years) are very demanding and neither of the actors who portray them are up to the spunk the roles require. Marie Wallace as Mat'tha, in particular, lacks even the most fundamental understanding of the text and her character. Consequently, she consistently botches scenes, giving no credibility to Mar- tha's many moods and no cohesion to the character as a whole. In several of the play's most dramatic and intense sequences, she delivers her lines as though she were reading them for the first time off flashcards; pronouncing them phoenetically and without any emotional inflection. What is most remarkable about this is that it often directly violates specific production notes that Albee purposely included in the script (e.g. lines that are supposed to be read \slowly\ or \deliberately\ are tossed off quickly as though they were an afterthought). In contrast with Wallace's inability to tap into any of Martha's multi-dimensional emotions, Bill Kuhlke, as husband George,· shamelessly overacts, getting pathetically emotional at the most inap- propriate times. The role is intended to be lowmkey and glib (with occasional outbursts of rage), but Kuhlke' is constantly bounding across the stage and infusing his lines with an overwrought sentimentality that betrays his character's nature. Even supporting actors Darren Kelly and Kathleen Masterson, as Nick and Honey, act like they're in a different play. Both seem to think their roles are much bigger than they actually are and overdramatize their lines wherever possible (Albee himself has said that they are supplementary characters, there to represent the audience and help us ob- serve George and Martha's interaction around them). Aside from the above, much of the blame for this disaster has to go to Peter H. Clough, who, simply as director, should know better than to let these people carry on like this. But beyond that, he has cut out whole sections of the script, apparently for no greater reason than to shorten a longer- than-usual play. However, in omitting entire passages of important background in- formation and excluding some of the play's wittiest and fun- niest dialogue, he has com- mitted a serious disservice to the audience, as ·well as the playwright. The drama is tightly wound and each development, in some way, is central to the play's emotional climax. Such deletions greatly detract from the overall ex- perience and sabotage the play's chances of rising above the uninspired performances of its four actors. The play is continuing its run through January 27, at Capital Rep's Market Street Theater in Albany. Ticket prices are halved for students at the door ($5.50 and $6.50), but if you want to get your money's worth, buy the book instead. Anyone who is fond of fine drama and acting would be well-advised to steer clear of this loser. Attention all Upperclass Meal Card Holders: All Upperclassmen are to eat at West College or the Rathskeller for dinner on Saturday, January 19, 1985. Thank you. Improv Returns By EMILY LOOSE Staff Next Friday, January 25, in Union's Performing Arts Center of the newly reconstructed Arts Building, two truly exceptional musicians, Julie Kabat and Steve Gorn, will perform a unique, avant-garde, im- provisational concert entitled Sound Center: Traditional and New Music for Indian Bamboo Flute, Glass Harmonica, Saw, Mrican Drum, and Voice. Julie Kabat, a .native of Albany, has recently completed three recordings, including a ninety- minute tape for National Public Radio, has recei~ed glowing reviews in the New York Times, has been praised by such music luminaries as John Hammond and John Cage, and has per- formed at numerous colleges and concert halls around the country, including Carnegie Recital Hall. Steve Gorn, a master of the Indian Bansuri flute, has also been applauded in the New York Times as well as the Village Voice, has studied classical and folk music in India, Indonesia, and . Japan, and combines in his music those eastern traditions with modern, western jazz. The music of both Miss Kabat and Mr. Gorn is both highly theatrical and unusual, especially by Union standards, and the concert, part of the Traditions of Improvisations series, promises to be a display of music innovation and im- provisation at their qest. NEED MONEY? Financial aid application materials for 1985-86 are now available in the Financial Aid Office, 2nd floor Becker Hall. AU applications must be completed and -'received by April 15 Don't Delay · No reminders will be ·sent! A free public walking tour of Proctor's Theater is scheduled for Wednesay, Jan. 23 at 1 p.m. Call Proctor's business office at 392-3994. .. • v c o: rr cl q: ft s1 bl a: rE fr a: 'd~ h• st aJ cl rr. S{ ol d!

C-sharp heavy fast, both relax play ~e was around be. His in the he has and con- ~o, Pitt- rk. He the of ~dmany of oscow's He after at the in iving in recital at the , plays, per- the a well studied in Japan, those of both is and Union part of of d im- • 1n ~d CONCORDIENSJS, January 17, 1985 Page 13 THE ARTS Murphy's latest is a Hit By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor-in..Chief . Twenty-three year old Eddie Murphy turns the tables on \48 Hours\ by playing a cop instead of a robber in his newest motion picture ''Beverly Hills Cop.\ Shaking off the dust from his role in this summer's major disappointment \Best Defen- se,\ Murphy has rocketed back into a shining preformance as Axel Foley, a Detroit detective who takes a working vacation in Beverly Hills. In this fast paced and laugh- filled suspense yarn, Murphy once again portrays his ever-· likable sel[ In tip-top shape professionally as well· as physically (he has undoubtedly been working out in a gym for this role) Murphy is at the top of his career. With wisecracks, sarcasm and street know-how, Murphy fights city crime and his superior, real-life Detroit homicide cop, Gilbert Hill. Foley is a bright young detective who has a lot to learn about public relations. He shirks authority at every turn and trusts only his own instincts. The film begins with Murphy working undercover as a drug dealer. What ensues is an elaborate chase scene with Murphy hanging on for life in the back of a truck while the Detroit police force rides in pursuit. This scene sets the pace for the film, fast and slick. When Murphy's childhood friend (Mark E. Corry) is \bumped off\ by professional killers, a trip to where else -- but Beverly Hills · follows. Foley is quickly introduced to palm trees, expensive hotels and the Beverly Hills police force most notably portrayed, at first, by two tall clean cut blonde police officers . . . no California stereotype is left untouched. Memorable Laughs Throughout \Beverly Hills Cop,\ Murphy is allowed to parlay a nwnber of acts into memorable laughs such as his first introduction to a Beverly Hills art gallery and its unique employee Bronson Pinchot. It is here he· enlists the aid of another friend Jeannette Summers (Lisa Eilbacher) who is employed by sinister Victor Maitland (Steven Berkoff of \Octupussy\), Foley's prey. John Ashton and Judge Choir Formed By EILEEN O'CONNELL Staff 1985 marks a historic turning point for choral singing at Union College. As a result of meetings last term, the Union College Glee Club (all rnen singers) and the Union College Womens Glee Club have been dissolved. In their place, the newly formed Upion College Choir will con- tinue a strong tradition of collegiate singing. The decision to form the new organization was made for many reasons. Foremost, the clubs Wished to maintain a high quality standard. In the past few years, both groups have struggled with tightened budgets, declining involvement, and a general lack of recognition for their efforts from students. Rather than allow slow death by . deterioration, the two clubs have joined together to combine strengths and bolster weak areas. In addition, the mixed choir will hopefully encourage more student participation. The new choir will retain some of the best features of the old groups, most notably, director Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson. Wilson, who encouraged the formation of UCC, hopes the strong actions taken will set an example for other student activities. Change is viewed as necessary to maintain vitality. Club members reacted positively to the change. Students felt the move was rnore in touch with current times. Winter term will be an in· terim period for the old organizations. Both club boards will work to form a new con- stitution, touring schedule, and music selections. Elections are slated for March as is the Choir's first concert which will be held at Union. The Union College Glee Club was a student organization of long history and wide mem· bership. Alumni members number in the thousands. The women's club formed only ten years ago, has already a reputation of quality and dedication. The Union College Choir will try to live up to the fun, camaraderie and sense of accomplishment that comes when combining voices in song. Congratulations, and here's to starting new traditions. English oa o~ Jo-~1( 1 1 ~ \t lntcznsivcz English Languagcr ProgrCJm SUNY at Alba.ny -.English study for non-notive speokcm -16 Week S42ssions 8 Wczek-Summ12r -Culturol Activities SPRING SEMESTER: )onuory Z 1, 1 985 . ·small classes ·fill L11vels .. -s~classes·doy ·TOEFL test prep. INFORMfiTION: 457·5071 ED 119 Proctor's Theatre Tickets available to students at V2 Price, 1 Hour before show depending upon availability Reinhold (\Stripes· 21 and \Gremlins\) play the bungling Beverly Hills cops who are assigned to watch the troublesome Murphy. They have their moments and play well off Murphy, but it is really Reinhold as Detective Billy Rosewood whose childlike in- nocence provides many laughs in the film. Director Martin Brest remembers the importance of Murphy's almost constant appearance on the screen yet he knows the effectiveness of the supporting cast as well. Murphy is allowed his sight gags (bananas in tailpipes), but the rest of the major characters are also given scenes that move the story along. One interesting note is that Sylvester Stallone was first considered to play Murphy's role. Thanks to Stallone's wise decline at playing the film for laughs, Paramount Pictures and Eddie Murphy have y~t another hit on- their hands. ''Beverly Hills Cop\ is currently playing at Cine 1-8 at the Northway Mall and Cinema 12 at Crossgates. Eddie Murphy stars as the brash and street smart Detroit Detective Axel Foley in Paramount Pictures'\ Beverly Hills Cop.\ Coming In January Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?-by Edward Albee-at the Capital Rep.-now through Jannuary 27. Performances Tues.-Fri. at 8 p.m. Sat. 4:30 and 9 p.m., Sun. 2:30-tickets at the Market Theatre and Community Box Offices-see review in this issue. The Director's Invitational Exhibition-presented by the Historical Society of Saratoga Springs- Ann Grey Gallery, The Casino in Congress Park, Saratoga Springs-now through February 23- 0pen Wed.-sun. 1-4 p.m. - On the Home Front-Egg Performing Arts Center-now through January 20-Thurs., Fri., Sat. 8 p.m.;· Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 2 p.m.-tickets $7, $5 for students and senior citizens. The Magnificent Mazowsze-Polish Song and Dance Troupe-Proctor's Theater- Thurs., January 17,8 p.m.-Tickets $16,$13.50,$9.50 Ain't Misbehavin' -N ott Memorial-Thurs., January 17, 8 p.m., tickets $5-tickets at the Nott ticket booth or student activities. Famous People Players-Black Light Theatre- Proctor's Theater- Fri., January 18, 8 p.m.-tickets - $12.50, $10.50, $7 .50. The General-silent movie with Buster Keaton-Proctor's Theater-sat., January 19, 2 and 7 p.m.- tickets $4 (matinee), $5 (evening) Bill Cosby-Proctor's Theater-sun., January 20, 3 and 7 p.m.-tickets $15, $12.50. Ama;,;ing Grace-film describing the contribution made by Martin Luther King, Jr. to the civil rights movement-Albany Labor Temple-sat., January 19, 7 p.m.-admission free-speakers and discussion to follow. Jean-Pierre Ratnpal w/John Steele Ritter-world reknowned flutist-Troy Savings Bank Music Hall-Tues., January 22, 8 p.m.-tickets $15 .. 50, $13.50-tickets at the Troy Music Hall Box Office and Corrununity Box Offices. Feld Ballet-Proctor's Theater-Fri., January 25,8 p.m.-tickets $14,$12, $8.50. Traditions of Improvisation-glass harmonica, voice, piano-Arts Department Recital Hall-Fri., January 25, 7:30 p.m.-admission free. Larry Elgart- Proctor's Theater-sat., January 26, 8 p.m.-tickets $14,$12, $8.50. D Nuovi Virtuosi di Roma-Proctor's Theater-Wed., January 30, 8 p.m.-tickets $14, $12, $8.50. Brighton Beach Memoirs--Proctor's Theater- Thurs., January 31, 8 p.m.; Fri., February 1, 8 p.m.- -tickets $18, $15.50, $11. LeLand Gantt (left) and Kevin Neil Cheatham (right) listening for the police in a wild Harlem party scene from\ Ain't Misbehavin°'. The award-winning musical will be performed at the Nott tonight at 8 p.m.

_P~ag~e_1_4~--------------------------------c_v··-~_c_o_R __ DIENSI~J.~an~u~ar~J~'l~~~~~9~85~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Super Bowl Preview BY' STEVE PIRANO Sports Staff This Sunday, the climax of the football season will occur with the Super Bowl. The game will pit the two powerhouses of each league against one another. The NFC champion San Francisco 49ers will host the AFC champion Miami Dolphins at Stanford Stadium in Palo Alto, California. This should be a great contest between two of the most exciting teams of all-time. The Dolphins, though picked the underdog, always pose a dangerous threat to even the strongest defenses. Lead by All- Pro sophomore quarterback Dan Marino, the Dolphins ex- plosive offense can errupt at any time with a pass to receivers Mark Clayton, Mark Duper and Jimmy Cefalo. Last week the \Marks Brothers\ Clayton and Duper, devastated the overmatched Pittsburgh Steelers with a combined nine catches for 243 yards. Marino passed for an astounding 421 yards and could have easily surpassed Dan Fouts' AFC passing record had coach Don Shula let him continue passing towards the end of the game. Also a player to watch for when Miami has the ball is running back Tony Nathan who had 178 total yards against the Steelers. Quarterback Joe Montana, overshadowed by Marino all season long, wHl guide the (17-_ 1) 49ers. This season, San Francisco set a record with 15 regular season wins, .adding two more in the play-offs. They humiliated the Chicago Bears last week with a 23.() shutout. Potent offensive threats for San Francisco besides \Montana Joe\ are halfback Wendell Tyler, tight end Russ Francis and receivers Dwight Clark, Freddie Solamon and ex-track star Renaldo Nehemiah. Last week the offense was adequate but the 49er defense was out- standing. The Bears had zero yards passing at half time and were sacked nine times by the tenancious San Francisco defendders. A key to the game will be the BASKETBALL MARATHON 49ers containment of Marino. He set a record for touchdowns this season aBd is known for his quick accurate release. Miami's offensive line has played well all season, but has not come up against a pass rush like San Franci:sco's. This should prove to be an in- teresting matchup. Last week, the 49ers offensive line had to make last minute adjustments to take on the Bears. The week before the Bears had sacked quarterback Joe Thiesman seven times with their \46\ defense. This posed a big problem for San Francisco's offense, but their adjustments worked. Miami's defense is not as strong as San Francisco's, and the Dolphins must bank on a big game from Marino. It looks to be a great game, and I predict \Montana's Revenge\. He will pick apart the Dolphins defense and prove the better man in his battle with Dan Marino. The San Francisco defense will contain Marino and stymie Miami's offense. My pick-49ers 35, Dolphins 28. The Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity is sponsoring a Basketball Marathon on Friday and Saturday, January 18 and 19, 1985. The funds raised will go toward our Big Brothers/Big Sisters program. We are asking Big Brothers and Big Sisters to organize a team of 5 or 6 people, including Little Brothers and Little Sisters to play at a convenient time during the marathon. Each person on the team is adked to collect donations. There wi II be a gift certificate from the Union College Book Store for the BB/BS who raises the most money and a prize for the LB/LS who collects the most donations. All LB/LS who participate will receive a BB/BS T-shirt. Wendy's Hamburgers will be providing refreshments and prizes during this event. • Please call BB/BS office (374-4523) with your team names and a time that is convenient to play. Dutchmen J.V. netminder John Davis makes one of several saves as defensemen 'Rich Preziotti looks on in opening round a.ction of the Capital District Teurnament. A series of luncheon colloquia sponsored 'by the President's Commission on the Status of Women begins at Union College Tuesday, Jan. 22, with a discussion of \Women's Health in the SO's.\ Speaker witl be Dr. lisa Harvey, a practitioner o.f holistic medicine presently affiliated with CHP. . . _ The luncheons will feature a variety of speakers, and will be held in the Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall, beginning at 12:30 p.m. Bring a lunch; coffee and tea will be provided. The public is invited to attend, and no admission will be charged. Future topics include \Making Spectacles of Themselves: Women and Film,\ Brenda Wineapple, associate professor of English, Union, Feb. 7; \'Women in a Man's ·world: The Stresses of Getting There and Staying There,\ panel discussion, March 5; 11 Contri·bUtions of Women in the History of Music,\ Musica Femina, April l7; \Sexual Harrassment, Sexual Attraction and Professional Ethics,\ Gloria Desole, assistant to the president for affirmative action, State University at Albany, April30; and \Women and French Tragedy,\ Helen Mc- Dermott, assistant professor of French, May 23. .... .... 0 u <f) >- .c 0 .... ·C .t;; 0. TH\S 1~ I.)NioN toLt...~G.(, A :sE.g,~I\.IE. LITTLE. A f'l....AC.E ,,.hi£RE. STvDt..N't\::> c.AN 60 A\-lt> .::.al\\t'h.lN ITt oF 1-JON\::>te.l=ol. S\N Of.NT S 11\l Trl£ ~TIJDY A!> Wf.LL A~ Hr'\\1£. A GRf.AT ~AIZ.INb C...IT'f of S,(.\-\f.N(C:...TADY NY,.. SlX.tAL LIF'E.. \1'\IS I'=' B\Jr DN( 0~ ·r~f: ~--------,r.::-r------.!.--------tl<;et:.\t ~ 1AL LANDMAe~s or:: rt-t£ u..tcx:a ... , &JT Tt-\12!Z..t. 't>E.f:M S TO B.C. A 6£o.w I Nb Pf.ooLf M; lT APPE.Ae..~ II{ A\ A V.l.C.Iovc:., Fb~r-~t.e.- M AI) ~fMALb \-\AS SE:\ ouT 'Tt> DE~>T£o\f' out E:,E_LovE:.'t> S~E.LLA£- ot-.!E. I(NOwl'\1 ONLY A,<:,: Pfi2.HAflS E:vf•'-~ fi-lE. (:,Q.£AT£.~r AI oNE. ''Ttl£.. RATM~(E..LLfH<'' ·. ·\ it { .\ . . . . ~ .. ' _-:::, fLA BLPL~ 'E>Ae,&\IH\ e:AG~wf.\2\) AT ''7'6'' ~PE£\), \S\AN uER.\\JE:.S ALL oF HE~ IN~PI (2.ATION--- ~\)T WAIT! NI-IA'f \~ TrlAT TtE.D To -sAN'~ W2.b'T~ b.o-:.1-\, NC! .IT\'- A wiQ( 1 IS IT reu(? ,,- ~£ \fHAT 3\AN 1i r A YES I IT 12 r~v(! AND LoOJC wtlo'~ 1-lot.D ot -rnt:. :srtt 1NC. S. ~­ r T '.s DeAN MiJI!.I'fiJfOt..A f J\u~T .. WHAi'.S GoOIN~ ON t-1£ l2£? WE: LAN WAIT ANt> SH! P , . I £ I ~D[)E:. II IJ. ('

>- .0 0 +- 0 ~?:%¥$t~·~t$J .c: 0. ~~saves of the a ner of a ill of sh, of ve nd \c- PetJoLEM: -MAD out \lLY A.S. ~ Page 15 Skating Dutchmen Lose in O.T. Scott WykoH . On Sports ByALWHITE Sports Staff • In a season in which the highlights of the year thus far has been a loss, the 5-6 {2-3 in D. II) Union College Skating Dutchmen are not exactly blazing a trail towards another playoff appearance. \We were in the same boat last year at this point in the season,\ Coach Morrisson commented. \But with hard work, dedication, and mental preparation, we could go on a roll for the next couple of weeks.\ With their portion of Division I opponents finished for the year, the Dutchmen ''are capable of winning every game from here on in,\ says Morrisson. The players had more than a week off going into last night's game, which should help mend some ·of the more battered bodies on the team. the blue line ... 2:18,2:17,2:16 .. . · GH Egan stops another RPI scare and stick-handles mote time off the clock ... 1:21, 1:20, 1: 19 ... Flanigan again makes a few great saves, and after a face-off and an ovation, Union manages to finally get the puck in the RPI zone, and eventually they force a face-off with 48 seconds remaining. The crowd, thanks in part ot defenseman John Mackenzie'.s en- couragement, went w:lld, as did through the net after sever:al missed rebounds, the game was tied, the .r·ink fell silent, and Union was disheartened. It was only a matter of time before the engineers would score their third goal in overtime, and the Dutchmen's chance for an upset went by the boards. \They should. be proud of themselves,'' Morrisson said. \They displayed the most intensity I've seen thus far this year.\ NOTES: Union .placed second in Though the student body has just returned to campus to hit the books Dutchmen winter sports squads are turning it into high gear. Numerous athletes practiced and competed while the rest of campus was home for the holiday break. Here are a few notes off the cuff to bring you up to date on the latest happenings from the garnet sports front. backcourt needs to pick up on its production. As of late sophomore Ken Levine has produced from the guard position. Levine has started to put some points on the board and dish out the assists. Ken is a product of Bob Pezzano's Jayvee program where he led last years edition in assists. Women for all Seasons: In a time of athletic specializatian, Patty Richards is a rare breed of athlete. The junior native of Rome, NY is one of Union's few three sport athletes. In the fall Patty can be found out on the soccer field, during the winter she hits the basketball court and when spring rolls around its off to the softball diamond. Currently Patty is the leading scorer for Lynne Barta's roundballers. Richards thru four games was averaging 17.5 pts. a game for the Dut- chwomen. Hats off to the three sport athletes that put in many hours during the year for Union athletics. Last week's contest against RPI, in front of a capacity crowd, was perhaps one of the best games seen at Achilles ~ Rin.lt in quite some time. Union ~ lost :in overtime, 3-2, but was ~ one double minor penalty away g from beating the fifth best !/) team in the nation. With Union ll leading 2-0, the refs called two .E simultaneous roughing _g penalties against the Dut- a. chmen, which led to an almost too-easy goal for the Engineers. Dutchmen Co·Capta in Gill Egan looks for a rebound on a Curt Cole (24) shot in Tuesday night's heart breaki.ng over·time loss toR Pl. Hoop Scoops: Over the last five years Bill Scanlon's basketball team has always had a guard at the top of the scoring list. So .far this year the man who has been filling it up the most has been forward Kevin Bartlett. The s.econd year captain who has been quietly doing his job for the Dutchmen over the past three seasons, has really made some noise in his senior campaign. The West Babylon native is averaging close to 19 pts. a night while pulling down eight rebounds a contest. As well as he has played all season, the last three weeks have been tremendous. Kevin has been named to the ECAC Honor Roll each of the three past weeks. Two weeks ago Bartlett was honored as the MVP of the Union Invitational Tourney. Last weekend the 6ft. 6 inch forward collected a career-high 25 points and 15 rebounds against Manhat- tanville and on the next night hit for 25 with 10 rebounds at the hands of Drew. Classmate and co-captain Ken D'Orazio has also been hot as of late averaging close to 16 pts. a game during his pursuit of the 1000-point plateau. In order to win consistently Scanlon's Puck Patter: Last night, Charlie Morrison's Skating Dutchmen started out a streak of 14 straight Division II games that all involved hope will culminate in a return to post season action. Five out of the garnet skaters first ten games were played against Div. I opponents. Though these games are not counted in league play, Morrison's philosophf has been to schedule these games to help with recruiting and also gear his squad up for the Div. IT campaign. Morrison's squad did quite well this year against the big boys. Union knocked off a Colgate squad on two oc- casions while losing to Army, St. Lawrence and RPI. Last weeks lost to the Engineers from Troy was dissapointing but quite impressive. RPI came into Achilles on a ten game winning streak and held onto a 5th place national ranking. The Dutchrnen.gave Mike Addessa's squad all they could handle in holding the Engineers to their lowest goal production of the year. This squad has proved it can play with the best and now with the bread and butter portion of the schedule ahead just about every game wlll be a big one for post season hopes. The Skating Dutchmen at press time sat in 9th place in the ECAC Western Division. At the end of year typically the top eight teams are chosen for the play-offs. But don't fret, a win last night would have moved Union into a play-off position and many of teams ahead of Union have yet to play the better teams in the league. This set the stage for an in- credibly tense and thrilling third period, one in which .for the last five minutes the fans were on their feet, and their eyes on the game clock. The last minutes of the game seemed interminable, and it showed on the ice as the mebattled and exhausted Dutchmen continued to thwart any attempt RPI made to score. The Dutchmen were on the ice with defense in mind, and although their of- fense in the third period suf- fered, it almost proved to ·be enough. 3:52, 3:51, 3:50. . . The Engineers hover around goalie Tim Flanigan as he stops each shot before Union clears it past the Union bench. \I was con- cerned when that happened,'' said co-captain Jamie Knight, referring to the excitement on the bench. \48 seconds was plenty of time for them to score no matter where the puck is, and we still had to keep our minds on playing it out. Not that we didn't, but I think that little extra overconfidence on our part wasn't helpful at that point. Too bad there wasn't only 26 seconds remaining.\ As Knight's mathematics attests, RPI finally got their break with 22 seconds remaining. They drove across the ice and when right-wing John Carter's shot trickled SUPPO-RT UNION SPORTS! W. Swimmers Sink BY SPORTS STAFF Last Saturday, the Union College Women's Swim Team traveled to Middlebury College for their first dual meet of the season. Unfortunately, the team is extremely small this year, so their overall meet records and scores may not be too im- pressive (it's not easy to out- score a team. of 25 With only 7 Dutchmen I ! ) . However, the team looks forward to do well individually. In Saturday's meet, everyone showed strong performances. Betsy Boutwell tlll'ned in a very good swim in the 200 freestyle, while she also took a third in the 100 yard individual Medley event. Trish Bowering helped the team with her third in the 100 freestyle, as we)J. as a strong swim in the breaststroke event. Another breaststroker, Karen Califano, took two thirds, in the 50 and 100 yard events. Lisa Freed also swam well, with a first in the 50 yard backstroke and a second in the 500 yard · .freestyle.· Both of her times in those events qualify her for the State meet in February. The four swimmers mentioned above were helped out by Do~a Gardiner's swim in the backstroke, and a third place in the 50 free. Overall, it was a good meet for everyone, and· the swim- mers are looking forward to this Saturday's home meet at 1 p.m. against Skidmore. the Empire State Tournament, but John Mackenzie was named to the all-tournament team. . . Although the Union J.V. squad turned in a disappointing performance in the Capital District Prep School Tourney, the event was a success with scouts from around the area, as it perennially is. . . Athlete of the Week BY PAUL KURKER Sports Staff The winter term's first Athlete of the Week honor is awarded to senior co-captain Kevin Bartlett of the varsity basketball team. Kevin has been tearing up the court thus .far, as he leads the team in scoring with an 18.9 points per game average. Kevin also leads the team in steals with 20 and shows 79 rebounds and 14 assists. A managerial Economics Major, Bartlett has o been a two year captain foe the o Dutchmen. \5. In the Dutchmen's last three o games, Kevin scored 21, 25, and V) 25 points respectively and had a total of 35 rebounds. For his outstanding play, Bartlett was named to the ECAC weekly honor roll for three consecutive weeks. The 6 foot 6 inches forward has been a four year starter and resides in West Babylon, NY where he Kevin Bartlett graduated .from West Babylon H.S. Congratulations to Kevin Bartlett and good luck to the Dutchmen. Parent's Weekend. Has been set for May 10; 11 & 12 Students interested in sharing thoug:hts and working to make it a success please sign up in the Student Activities Office, Carnegie Hall, by January 22, 1985.

\' \' Q) ... c... :::: 0 u VI >- .n 0 - 0 .c; a. Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS, January /7, 1985 SPORTS • • • Augustana prevails 23-6 Dutch~nen By TED CANNON Sports Staff The Union College Dutchmen football team came up just shy this year of a return trip to the Div. III finals by dropping the semi-fin~il game to an out- standing Augustana team. The Dutchmen once again, however, had an excitement-filled season, and played a tremen- dous football game to reach the Bo-w In hitting Britton for another score with just 39 seconds left in the half. Beginning the second half, Union's defense began to take control of the game. \We stopped their running game,\ felt senior defensive-end Brian Cox, \and that forced them into an unfamiliar game plan, passing instead of running.\ The return of starting linebackers Pat Wright and Senior tailback John Johnson carries the ball through a crowd of Plymouth St. Panthers. The Dutchmen defeated the Panthers but later losttoAugustana in the NCAA Div. Ill semifinals. semi-finals and capture the 1984 Eastern Regional Cham- pionship. The Garnet took on Plymouth St. on the turf to decide the Eastern Championship. Plymouth St. entered the game with outstanding numbers. They had a 23-game win streak, and a junior tailback who had gained close to 3,500 . yards in just three seasons. The Pan- thers were also coming off of a 42-14 thrashing of Curry College. The Dutchmen entered the game with a ressurected spirit. After dropping their last game to Hamilton, the Garnet were just glad to get another shot at the playoffs. On a cold and snowy Satur- day, at first it appeared as if it may become a very long af- ternoon for the Union faithful, as the Panthers controlled the eady part of the game, and took a 7-0 lead into the second period. The Dutchmen, thanks to poise, two clutch third-down conversions by senior quar- terback Dan Stewart, and a split end named Winston Britton, were able to march down the field 71 yards to their first score. Twice on third- down, Stewart found the hig play. On one third-down, Stewart scampered 23 yards into Panther territory. Another third-down was converted to a first-down, as Stewart hit senior Rich Kellaher on a nine-yard crossing pattern for a first and goal-to-go at the nine. Stewart capped the drive by hitting Britton on an out for a seven- yard scoring strike. Later in the same quarter, possibly the biggest play of the game took place. Sophomore tackle Sean Duffy and freshman defensive-end Rich Romer dropped the Panther punter. after he dropped the snap, for an 11-yard loss and a Union first-down at the Plymouth 29, with 3: 23 left in the half. \I think the dropped snap on the punt really changed the game around,\ noted Dan S.tewart, ''The momentum definitely swung to our side after that play.\ Stewart made sure it stayed on Union's side by Marty Glaze helped the Dut- clunen halt the highly touted Panther attack. Several hard hits by both linebackers seemed to take the wind out of the sails of the Panther running attack. Senior tailback John Johnson extended Union's lead late in the third period with a one-yard plunge to give the Dutchmen a 20-7 edge. Plymouth St., a fine football team, was determined to make a game of it. The Panthers marched down the field 72 yards to cut Union's edge to 20-14. Again, John Johnson ex- tended Union's lead, and this proved to be too much for the Panthers, as he went in from seven yards out with eight minutes left to play to give Union a 26-14 advantage. The 26-14 count proved to be the final. On the day the Dut- chmen looked solid. The key to the game appeared to be Union's concentration, they only turned the ball over once. The fine play of the offensive line, and senior fullback Steve Olsen's hard running wore down the Panthers. All the factors combined spelled Eastern Regional Champions, the second time, in as many years, that the Dut- chmen have brought that title to Schenectady. The Dutchmen were now ready to take on Augustana, in a rematch of last year's championship game. Augustana entered the game not having lost since the 1982 Div. III Championship game, and got on the board first with a 21-yard field goal. . Union, coming off of a fine offensive performance the week before, had trouble getting going, but did manage to tie the game at 3, thanks to a 24-yard Greg Sticka, first quarter field goal. Although Union's defense continued to stop the Vikings, time and again, the Dutchmen could not find the right com- bination, to put a drive together themselves. Eventually, the Vikings did manage a touchdown, and took a 10.3 lead into the locker-room with them at halftime. Early in the third quarter, Playoffs junior placekicker Greg Sticka put Union back in the game, with a 43-yard field goal, to cut Augustana's lead to 4. Those points, however, turned out to be Union's 'last of the season, as an injury to quar- terback Dan .Stewart and nine turnovers on the day, prevented the Dutchmen from mounting any more offense. Augustana converted some of those tur- novers to a T.D. and two more field goals, to assure them-. selves a berth in the cham~ pionship game for the third consecutive year. Although the ·loss was tough for the Dutchmen (any loss is), this team will go into Union's bodks as one of the finest ever. The team played under tremendous pressure, and produced. This team was not looking forward to the playoffs, they were expected to get there, and that is not an easy thing to live up to. This team, however, did it, and did it in such a way as to give this campus an air of excitement and expectation in the fall that has not existed for some time. For this, we are grafeful to Union's football team, we are grateful they are winners. Dutchmen Sportsweek Jan. 11.-23 Thursday l/7 Women's Basketball vs. Albany State . Friday l/B Women's Indoor Track vs. Platts. & Ver. Men's Indoor Track vs. Colg. & .Platt. Saturday 1119 Men's Swimming at Trinity · Women's Swimming vs. Skidmore Women's Basketball vs. Hartwick Men's Basketballvs. St. Lawrence Hockey at Williams Men's J.V. Basketball vs. Hartwick Tuesday 1/22 Women's Basketball at WiiTiams Wednesday V23 Hockey vs. Middlebury ·. Men's J.V. Basketball vs. WHiiams RPI3 New HamptonB Lawrence 10 Cushing 6 GARNET SCOREBOARD Jan. 1-Jan. 14 HOCKEY .(4·6) J.V. H.OCKEY (2-4) Cap. Dist. Tournament . MEN'S BASKETBALL (5-6) ManhattanviUe 77 Union BS Russell Sage 61 St. Rose 62 Dominican 70 Williams64 Union 57 Williams61 · Hamilfon 52112 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (0 4) MEN'S TRACK WOMEN'S TRACK ?p.m. 6:30p.m. 6:30.p.m. 2 p.m. 1 p.m. 6p.m. 4p.m .. 7:30p.m. 1:30 p.m. 6 p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. Union 2 (OT) Union 1 Union 1 Union 3 Union 73 Drew 77 Union 58 Union 61 Union 55 Union 57 Hamilton 48 Union 40112 . Union 40112 Trackmen Take Second By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff Despite six first place finishes, the Union men's indoor track team was unable to hold off the depth of Williams in a tri- meet with the Effmen and the Colonials of Hamilton in Williamstown, Massachusetts on Saturday. Union finished second in the meet, 64-57-48. The Dutchmen led in the meet after the field events ac- cumulating 25 points behind fine performances from junior Scott Remilard and freshman Wayne Lacy. Remillard was the only double winner for Union taking first place in the 25 lb. weight and shot put with throws of 53'5\ and 44'4%\ respectively. Remillard dominated his event · by beating his closest com- petitor by several feet. In the pole vault competition, freshman standout Wayne Lacy took first place honors with a vault of 13'6\. After his winning vault the bar was then moved up to 14'3\. On his second at- tempt he cleared the 13tandard but knocked the bar off with his foot on the way down. Lacy also scored a third place in the high jump with a leap of 6'2\. Williams overtook the Dut- chmen in the running events by outscoring Union 44-32. Williams placed first five times out often to Union's three, while Hamilton took two firsts. Outstanding performances for Union included a first and second in the 500 meters for senior Winston Britton and sophomore Steve Black respectively. Britton, who is defending State champion at that distance, finished in 1:08.5. Running a fine.lOOO meter race was sophomore Mike Reed SUPPORT UNION SPORTS finishing first in 2:38.8. Finishing out the scoring for Union was a first place finish in the two-mile relay. The Dut- chmen's 8:33..1 time was highlighted by a fine anchor leg turned in by junior cross country standout Chris O'Donnell. In the women's meet on the same day at Williams, the Dutchmen lost to Williams and Hamilton respectively 61-52¥2- 40%. Sophomore Amy Walsh was the only double winner for Union taking a close first in the 1500 meter (5:13.8) and 800 meter (2:36.8;. The only other winner for Union was freshman Jenny Lee in the 500 meter race. Lee finished with a time of 1:29.6. The Dutchmen got help in the scoring from many new faces to coach Russ Ebbets' program, promising better things to come in the future. . In other Union Track notes: before most of the students came back from Christmas break, the Union men and women traveled to Dartmouth on January fourth and fifth for the Dartmouth relays. Out- standing performers were Scott Remillard in the 35 lb. weight with a throw of 52'6\ good enough for fifth place, Wayne Lacy in the pole vault finished 11th with a vault of 13'6\ and junior Jim Mann finished fifth in the two mile race walk with a time of 14:20.6. The men get back into action with their 1-1 record this Friday at home in the field house as they entertain Colgate and Plattsburg. The women are also at home Friday hoping to im- prove on a 0·2 record against Plattsburg and Vermont. Field events get under way at 6:30. Rebecca Clemente goes for a lay-up in recent action against Dominican. The Union Dutchwomen Basketballteam face Albany State tonight at the Memorial Fieldhouse at 7 p.m. Ill Ill <II .... 0.. ::: 0 u Vl >- .0 0 0 s:: 0.

7p.m. 6:30p.m. 6:30.p.m. 2p.m. 1 p.m. 6p.m. 4p.m. • 7:30p.m. 1:30p.m. 6 p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. ion 2 (OT) Union 1 Union 1 Union 3 Union 73 Drew 77 Union 58 Union61 Union 55 Union 57 48 40112 40112 notes: students hristmas and fifth for Out- Scott weight good , Wayne finished and fifth with a action s Friday as and are also to inl- against Field at 6:30. against Albany \' \' QJ .... a. ::: 0 u 1/) > .0 0 0 .s::: 0. CXIVI No. 10 Bulk Rate u.s. Postage ~aid Permit No. %15 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 . -\'\ ' \ \,\--:\~~ ,-.... \..,/. ~' ' ' January 24, 1985 Solomon Organizes Talk About King By GREG FAY Staff Sophomore Jim Solomon has long been interested in Dr. Martin Luther King's struggle for Black equality and civil rights in general. Last year Solomon was dissatisfied with how little Union College did to recognize King's efforts on his birthday, so this year Solomon organized a memorial discussion. On Wednesday night, January 16, three minority representatives spoke in Hale House on \The Direc- tion of Civil and Equal Rights in America.\ Although this was the first event Solomon organized at Union on behalf of King, his concern in eighth gr~de at the Buckingham Brown and Nichols School in Cambridge, Massachusetts, caused 'him, as he said, \. . . to have school cancelled for the day as a memorial holiday\ for King. When he and his family moved to Chicago, Solomon again wanted his new school, Francis Parker, to remember King on his birthday. This time, though, Solomon thought that a memorial holiday would not -be good enough. Said Solomon, \A holiday is a nice tribute but on George Washington or Abraham Lincoln Day, people don't go home and think about all the good that guys like that did, and Martin Luther King Day would be no different.\ So, ~n eleventh grade Solomon successfully urged his school to cancel classes, on King's bir- thday but also to have the day devoteq to the study of civil rights. Said Solomon, \In the spirit of Martin Luther King Day we wouldn't discuss just Black rights, but civil rights for all.\ For the upper-level grades, Solomon got Vernon Jordan, then the national director of the Urban League, to speak at Francis Parker on civil rights, and after he had spoken, the classes discussed what he had said. The students were then able to attend two hour-long civil rights electives. These classes studied topics such as Black progress since Martin Luther King, Indian and Hispanic civil rights, the future of women in America after the defeat of the Equal Rights Amendment, and more. For the Junior-Kindergarten students at Francis Parker, Solomon organized a different program. To get the children to think about prejudice, he had the teachers discriminate one day against left-handed students !'lnd the · next day agains right-handed students. For . example Jim explained, when recess had begun, \The right..:handed kids were favored and the left-handed kids couldn't go out for recess. They had to stay and do work. Also, \They had to eat lunch quicker and they weren't called on in class ... The kids really hated it and became very frustrated.\ That memorial to King at Francis Parker was so suc- cessful that it has been repeated each year since. In fact, this year Francis Parker invited Solomon to speak on civil rights for the occasion. He accepted the invitation and was not able to arrive back at Union College in time for the civil rights discussion that he himself had put together. Black Rights· Nevertheless, the discussion went on. First ·spoke Lloyd Coatinued on page 2 At least it's notthe Nott Memorial! President John Morris discusseS-the recent decision to raise Union's tuition. We 'II Pay 8% More .... . I Tuition Charges Increase By JUDIE STEINHARDT News Editor As usual, it will cost more to attend Union next year than it did this year. According to President John Morris, \The total tuition, room and board increase is eight percent over the present.\ To break it down, \the tuition increase is $725, which is 8.3 percent. Most common housing is $110 and the food contract is $110 which woUld make. the total $945,\ stated Morris .. When all the figures are considered, they show that the rise is ap- proximately eight percent, as estimated by school authorities. Morris explained that there are two main reasons why tuition was raised. First, he stated, ''We make a budget on what we think is the general economic trend. We're always a year away.\ Second, there are general improvements in the quality of the college which must be accounted for. Morris stated that some of the coming year's improvements will include increased student aid allowance, increases in salary to faculty and staff, and an increase in the number of faculty. Morris explained the con- nection between inflation and costs to the school. He said, \They're really very dependent on eacb other, general inflation factors and factors that concern educational cost.\ In the past, however, Union underestimated inflation, whereas lately the school has been overestimating. Morris • continued, \Union's increases during several of the years when inflation was very high, raises were tess than inflation. There's been a lot of need for catch-up in faculty and staff salary.'' Yet, Morris claimed, Union's increases have been relatively modest: \Union's tuition rate compared with a lot of like colleges has been rising at a lower rate.\ Deciding to raise tuition is a \long complicated process,\ stated Morris. He described .the procedure: there is \discussions with my staff, consultation with the Planning _ Election Statements *-P.4-* and Priorities Committee; a proposed budget goes to the Board of Trustees-it is the trustees who vote on it.\ The Board accepted the increased tuition proposal last Wed- nesday. Morris continued, \There will be increases in the future. They will not be out of line with higher education trends. They will cut slightly above the in- flation level.\ - Morris further explained that the school does make provisions for financial aid students, so they can cope better with the increases. He stated, \At any time we increase we put a significant amount of that in- crease-nineteen percent this year-into student aid .... \ Morris realizes that nobody likes tuition increases, but he believes they are necessary. He stated, \A tuition increase is something that does not stand alone. You have to look at what kind .of a college we have to maintain to remain competitive with other colleges. It's my responsibility to see that the facilities are not only main- tained, but enhanced.\ Student Trustee Shari Midoneck maintains a more critical view .of the tuition in- creases. She and fellow Student Trustee Andrew George voted against the increase because they believed it was more than was necessary. Midoneck explained her view Continued on page 3 Dutchmen Skaters *-P.19-* ... ~

,, ' CONCORDIENSIS, Jan11ary 24, 1985 Princeton Professor David Bi·llington visited U~ion last week -as .part of a Phi Beta Kappa lecture series. Phi Beta Kappa Scholar Speaks By EILEEN O'CONNELL Staff Professor David Billington of Princeton· University visited Union last week as part of a Phi Beta Kappa lecture series. His visit here was one of . eight scheduled at selected campuses around the country. The .national Phi Beta Kappa society chooses thirteen lecturers each year and sets up their respective tours. Billington is one of the few engineering specialists ever chosen as a visiting fellow. Several lec- tures, classroom visits, and a breakfast session were packed into Billington's brief two day visit, January 17 and 18. Billington's addresses, which were very well received, spoke to issues relevant to Union's liberal arts tradition. A civil engineering professor, he spoke eloquently on the relationship between technology and hwnanistic values. His evening lecture was entitled \Bridges as an Art Fonn.\ In an afternoon session, his topic \Teaching Engineering to Liberal Arts Students\ was particularly applicable to Union's Liberal· Learning requirements. The presentation drew professors from the various departments ranging from philosophy to computer science. Unique Approach Active discussion followed the afternoon lecture. Billington's unique approach sparked questions on course scope and depth. He also discussed the Dutch dike system, a large engineering project which also represents a technical versus cultural struggle. Billington began teaching his courses that bridge engineering and humanities ten years ago. He discovered that his ar- chitecture students were bored studying abstract formulas and foirns. They wanted to learn about the grand edifices which had attracted them to ar- chitectural design. He began to incorporate aesthetic concerns into his courses. He then began teaching courses for both liberal arts and engineering students drawing from the several disciplines. A Billington course has three essential elements. Most im- portantly, the subject matter is chosen because people react to its visual presence. The history surrounding the structure is then studied, including its time period. Lastly, BiHington stresses the need for his students to understand basic structural calculations. His students are humanities, social science, and beginning engineering students. The liberal arts majors benefit from exposure to structural technology while the engineers develop a cultural sense of structure. In a discussion previous to his departure, Professor Billington expressed his pleasure that so many different academics were interested in his topic. The humanities departments at other colleges have not always been as responsive to his ideas as Union's is. Thinking of Going Abroad? Union Terms Abroad will offer ten different opportunities for students to study abroad during the 1985-86 academic year. The Summer Socialized Medicine term will be offered again this summer. Fall terms will take place in Bath, England, Rennes, France, Florence, Italy, York, England, and Osaka, Japan. The term in Japan is a semester tenn; the York program is only · open to juniors and seniors. In winter, 1986, students may choose among programs in . Seville, Spain, Athens, Greece and Israel. The spring, 1986 tenn will take place in Vienna, Austria. The cost of Union Terms Abroad does not exceed the tuition, room and board charged to students remaining on campus. The main additional expenditure for students studying abroad is the air fare to and from the site of the · program. Students who maintain a mmtmum 2.0 cumulative average, and a 2.0 average in the term preceding the term abroad are entitled to apply. For more information and application blanks, come to the Terms Abroad office in Humanities 211. This is the time to apply for next year's programs. There will be an important general meeting for all those interested in a term abroad on Tuesday, February 5 at 4:30 p.m. in SS016. King Memorial Organite continued from page 1 James Oxford, Executive Director of the Albany Urban League. He initially gave a bit of the history of the Black civU rights movement starting in 1954. That year, Oxford claimed, the \Brown versus the Board of Education of Topeka\ decision and the MontgQmery Bus boycotts that King led \served as the fuel . . . of the· civil rights movement.\ But today, said Oxford, ·••rt is clear that mack America is now far from the national agenda.'' He asserted that many of the legacies of the civil rights struggle of the early 1960's are now threatened by attacks on affirmative action, attacks to curtail the Voting Rights Act, drastic budget cuts in social programs, a shift back to states' rigl:its with no anti- discrimination guidelines, and a devastating cut in financial assistance to higher education. Oxford claimed that the federal government and even in some cases the state governments cannot be trusted to provide needed social programs aiding Black America. Said Oxford, \. . . we must be even more diligent and determined as the civil rights activists of the past. Liberty, justice, and freedom are at stake.\ Oxford ended his speech with an excerpt from King's speeck \I've Been to the Mountain Top.\ Women's Rights Mary Mercer, Co-President of the National Organization For Women (NOW), spoke next. She stated that \Iri 1961 a com- mission was introduced by President John F. Kennedy and led by Eleanor Roosevelt that first reported that, despite having won the right to vote, women were discriminated against in virtually every aspect of life. Nevertheless, the conference attendees were prohibited by the Administration's rules for the conference from passing resolutions~\ With a tinge of anger in her voice, Mercer asserted \This. kind of stuff shows you it's not. fair.\' To support her assertion, Mercer showed her listeners a chart on the wage gap between different races. · Her · in- formation showed that · the average White male earned $1.00 per hour in 1980; while the average Black and Hispanic males earned 73 cents per haW,\. Mercer acknowl~dged that Governor Cuome said White females today earn 62 cents per hoW,\ but She indignantly asked \If the men can earn $1.00 an hour, why can't we?\ In · an excerpt· that Mercer read from Governor Cuomo's message to the legislature, Cuomo stated that \If we permit the present trend to continue, by the year 2000, women and their dependent children will comprise virtually all of the state's poor.\ Mercer told her listeners that she knows two women w.ho are the co-owners .of a f!liilale contracting business in Nassau County. When these women tried to get a license from City Hall in 1982, they were told that 511 percent of the shareholders of their corporation had to be male. \That doesn't make sense to me,\ said Mercer. \I was fold that we are all God's children and I believe that means we are all equal,\ Mercer said. She ended her speech by urging her audience to \continue to strive for freedom and equal rights ... Be a concerned and' active con- stituent.\ Human Rights The last to speak that night was Neil Tevebaugh-Kenwryck of the Anti-Defamation League. His speech was on the heroic exploits of Raoul Wallenberg, who for forty years has been held captive by the Soviet Union. During World War II, when Franklin Roosevelt created the War Refugee Board to help save European Jews, Wallenberg, a wealthy Swedish industrialist, was chosen to go to Hungary as the Board's representative. There, said Tevebaugh- Kenwryck, \you can credit Wallenberg with saving bet- ween 100,000 to 120,000 Jews.\ Bec\ause of his deeds, President Reagan made Wa'llenberg an honorary citiZen of the United States in 1981. Said Tevebaugh'-Kenwryck, \You may ask what relevance this has to human rights in this country.\ He asserted that if Wallenberg had been allowed to come home after World War II instead of being locked up in the Soviet Union, he would have more firmly implanted the horrors of the Holocaust on the minds of Americans. Americans might have become rnore sensitive to issues such as the war in Vietnam, women's rights, Indian rights, and starvation in Ethiopia. Said Tevebaugh-Kenwryck, · \AU of these things could not have been prevented if Wallenberg had gotten out of Russia, but some of them might.\ In addition to the three speakers, Solomon tried to get representatives from the Governor's Commission on Gay Rights and from the Hispanic Community to speak at the memorial. But they cancelled out at the last moment. Another problem Solomon encountered was in scheduling. He did not want to set up the discussion on Thursday night because the play in the Nott would have interfered. On Tuesday night he thought many students would be at the Skellar or the Pub. So Wednesday was his best choice, even though a hockey game was scheduled for that night. Despite these and other problems, though Solomon is not discouraged and is looking forward to an even ~Jetter memorial next year. Union Welcomes Strosberg By LAUREN SANDERS Staff There is a new addition to the faculty of the Institute of Administration and Management this year at Union. Associate Professor Michael Strosberg, a Union Colleege graduate himself, is now teaching in coordination with Union's graduate program. to teach and simultaneously work on a research project at Ellis Hospital, where he spends most of his time. The nature of the research is to examine the role of medical education, that is, to study interns and residents, in a community hospital. Strosberg says that he has no results as of yet; however, \It looks promising and it's fun.\ •lAM• Strosberg graduated from Union in 1966 and then went on to ·get his masters degrees in Prior to his return Strosberg public affairs and public health spent 2 years in Washington from the University of working for the United States California at Berkeley. He also Department of Health and received his PhD. in public Hwnan Services. He has also administration from the worked as a community Maxwell School at Syracuse. organizer for an anti-poverty One reason for Strosberg's program in Medford, Oregon, return to Union is that he is able and as an Associate Professor at New York University. Strosberg welcomes the opportunity to teach at his Alma Mater and, in the Union spirit, enjoys attending Union College hockey games. During his college career, Strosberg was a political science major, Associate News Editor of Concordiensis, and a member of Phi Epsilon Pi, a fraternity no longer on this campus. Strosberg loves Union and finds that not much has changed in sixteen years. In fact, he says, \The only things that have changed are: there are now women on campus, Union has its own hockey team, and Professors Underwood, Board, and Daniels have grown beards!\ Welcome to Union, Professor Strosberg! ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • ! WriterS Needed! : • • • News, Features, Arts • • Sports, Anything! • • •• : Feel Free to Call : • Our Editors • • • • Gayle- X6685 8 : Mar·cy--393-0612 : • ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

when the save a as credit bet- Jews.\ an United this that if to War II in the have the the have issues rights, Said of been had some three to get the Gay panic the on the night Nott On many was a for and ld and even tr. rg the Alma ;pirit, [)llege l his was a ajor, ,r of ber of ty no Union 1 has s. In hings there a pus, earn, rood, rown essor •• • • • • • • •• • • • • • • • •• CONCORDIENSJS,. January 24, 1'985 Sexism Surges in College (CPS )-College women find \even worse\ campus sexism outside the classroom than· they do in classes, a major college group claims. Discrimination ag.ainst female college students by male faculty and administrators extends beyand the classroom and may be more career- damaging than in-class sex bias, the group's new report charges. . male-dominated majors, and consider men more knowledgeable and career· minded. Counselors and professors also spend less time with women students than with men outside the classroom, and give less encouragement to women who seek leadership positions on campus, the study shows. it, study author Hall warns subtle discrimination can discourage them,. too. \Returning women students very often have given a great deal of thought to their situation, like career plans and ways in which their sex has held rn them back,\ she explains. \But .g it cuts both ways.\ ~ If a severe problem persists, ~ such as financial· or counseling .:.!. discrimination, students .should ~ use campus grievance procedures or administrative channels, Hall advises. Page3 In fact, sex discrimination in financial aid offices, and in career counseling and em- ployment centers can cause women to ''lose confidence, lower their academic goals and limit their career choices,\ study authors·Roberta M. Hall and Bernice R. Sandler claim. \Younger women may enter college expecting equal treatment,'' Hall explains, ''and young women who have never been employed in the workforce are very apt not to be aware of the differential treatment. But they're more likely to be demoralized by it.\ · ''The earlier study sparked a number of campus-based workshops, programs and .conferences focusing on these issues,\ she says. Assemblyman Jim Tedisco took part in the Phi Gamma Delta Basketball Marathon. The study, .sponsored by the Association of American Colleges' Project on the Status and Education of Women, follows the same authors' earlier examination of college classroo~ sex bias. It revealed \things are even worse outside the classroom,\ when class rules no longer apply, Hall says. The earlier study charged male faculty favored male students in classroom situations, Hall notes. The new report found career and academic counselors also often unconsciously discourage women from taking certain \Most 18-year-old girls don't know what happened with the women's movement in the sixtil;ls ·and seventies,\ agrees Florence Hall, educator and founder of New York's Feminist Press. \It's also true most 18- year•old males don't know whafs going on. The results of the survey didn't come as a sur.prise to me.\ \But it's fascinating that in 1985 we're seeing a recurrence of some of the all-too-familiar attitu<Jes that the women's movement faced in the sixties,\ she continues. \It's easy to slip back.\ While alder women students often are more sensitive to sexist behavior, and are con- sequently better able to survive \The schools that were more concerned about women did their own ·studies, and found students conunenting on the chilly climate for women out- side the classroom,\ Hall notes. The comments led to the new study, she says. But more than research is necessary, Flerence Hall argues. Only _one-third of all colleges provide specialized child, health care and crisis center services, and even fewer offer a full range of these services, she says. \It's important we remind ourselves that the effort to build coed education is not com- pleted,\ she adds. T • t • R· . • A • that some good has come out of . . · · . the increases. For example, she Ul I 0 n Ises gain stated, \Since 1980 tile percent _ . . of the budget that goes to Contmuedfrompage 1 contmued, \They un- financial aid has increased usihg specific examples. She derestimate what that is. They from 9.5 to 10.7 percent. The stated that last year, there was usually make more than they board is cognizant of the fact over $200,000 \revenue over think they will.\ Thus, the that we need financial aid and it expenditures\ in residence life, financial directors of the school is increasing.\ yet there was stilta 7.1 percent have been counting less on the To summarize her belief that incr'ease enacted for neXt year. endowment and more on tuition the increase in tuition is more It is the sc.hool's acquisition and tha~ may be deemed necessary, than i~ necessary, Midoneck use of th1s extra money that M1doneck demonstrated the gave the three main points of Midoneck is · calling into reasoning behind this form of her argument: \I think they question. budgeting. \The rule .of overestimated the inflationary She said about .the \r~venu~s budgeting at this college is it's increase, I think that they over expenditures m better to be more on the plus underestimate the number of Residence Life, \Some of it side than on the negative side. students that attend and I think goes to fringe benefits to the It's better to have extra money that they underestimate the employees, but there's only than not enough. We've taken in amount of income that will be a bout seven people in Residence more than we needed so we've taken in by the endowment.\ Life staff. Also, depreciation of been lucky enough to do extra buildings-they have to take into things. They don't depend on the Marathon Raises Charity Dollars ByANDREABUGBEE Staff Phi Ganuna Delta held its seventh annual Charity Basketball Marathon last weekend. This twenty-four hour event, which was held in the Alwnni. Gym, was organized to benefit the Big Brothers and Sisters Association. The Fiji brothers were not the only people involved in making this marathon suc- cessful. Twenty-four teams were formed from brothers, pledges, and campus women. These athletes were not only matched against each other, but also against the skills of two faculty teams, alumni, and a government team headed by local politician {and Union graduate} Jim Tedisco. Each :Year the Fiji brothers vote on what they consider to be a worthy cause for the house to support. Because many of the brothers ar_e involved with it, the Big Brothers-Big Sisters seemed to be the best selection. Some organi~ations spon- sored in the past by marathons include Muscular Distrophy and both Sunny View and Ellis Hospitals. A great deal of time and planning have been afforded to this marathon by the Fiji brothers. John McCormick, Fiji treasurer, remarked, \We started working on this in the beginning of the year. Since we've been back from Christ- mas break, it's been almost a fulltime job.\ T -shirts had to be designed and printed, a sponsor selected (this year Anheuser Busch), teams formed and schedules made. Last year's marathon brought one thousand six hundred dollars to Muscular Distrophy. This year, it is hoped that they will be able to grant the Big Brothers-Big Sisters two thousand dollars. Chairman of the marathon committee and Fiji president Chris Hutchins, concluded that, \In my opinion things went really wen: Everyone had a great time and we made a lot of money. I'm really impressed by the in- volvement of the brothers and the girls on campus. One group made about two hundred dollars just by going around and getting people to sponsor them. Overall, I'm pleased with the way things went.\ account that they'll have to extra money. It's nice to have, rebuild the buildings someday.\ but they don't budget for it.\ Midoneck also clarified the Midoneck also stated the school's use of the endowment, surprising fact that \Union FRESHMAN DINNER which is the savings of money students with tuition, room and from contributions and in- board pay only 85 percent of vestments. The people who what it costs to go here. If we formulate the budget must had to pay 100 percent we approximate what that year's wouldn't be in the market of income from the endowment buyers.\ will be, so they know how much Midoneck has found that the they will be able to takf out of it, hidden financial aid makes it and how much money will be difficult to hold back tuition needed from tuition. The more increases. She stated, \It's very money taken from the en- hard to fight an increase in dowment, the less needed from tuition because students only tuition. pay 85 percent to go here Midoneck explained that 5.5 anyway.\ percent of the endowment goes Not to sound completely into the budget. Howe~er, she negative, Midoneck recognizes ffol{aLiTY QUiZ ONe oF -r11e~e i~ u~eo BY ViCiOU~ Te.RRORig,TS WHo HaVe NO ReGaRD FoR HUMaNiTY To BLOW UP Poli1\iCaL TaRGeT~. Tfie oTI-IeR i~ o~eP B'l 60D-FeaRiNG CiTiZeN& lo DeMoN~T\Ra:fe Tf'leiR .BeLieF iN THe ~aNcTrT'/ or LiFe B'l SLOWiNG UP j aBoRTioN CliNiC~. j WIDCH iS WHi·CH? · 8(~-f~-~~- , President of the Student Forum, Steve Benson, addresses the Class of 1988 at the President's Dinner . This past Saturday night the freshman class was treated to the second annual President's Dinner. Jointly sponsored by President and Mrs. Morris and the Student Forum, the dinner was the conception of Junior Representative to the Board of Trustees Andrew George, who last year served as Sophomore Representative on the Student Forum. He came up with the idea with two objectives in mind: to rewelcome the fresh- man class and to serve as a catalyst for students to get involved. The dinner was held in Hale House and Old Chapel. The first to speak was President Morris who \very officially welcom~d the Class of 1988. President of the Student Forum Steve Bepson also spoke of pushing oneself at Union and encouraged students to grow with student activities. Director of Alumni Affairs Harry Demgen welcomed the class as prospective alumni and discussed the role alumni play in' the Union community. The dinner was followed by entertainment in Memorial Chapel which included singing by the Dutch Pipers and several comedy and talent acts. The Jazz Ensemble also performed. The evening was capped by a dance held in Old Chapel which featured Charlie T. and the Grads.

Page4 CONCORDIENSJS, January 24, 1985 -Fresh,man Representative f' I f l Allen Richard Allen I am Richard Allen and I would like to be your freshman representative to the Student Forwn. I have not chosen to run for this position because of my past experience nor because I believe I can do all sorts of unbelievable things for this class. I am running because I would truly like to represent the freslunan class in the only .fonn of student government we have. I won't insult your intelligence by over emphasizing how imm portant our input as a class is to this organization. It's quite clear that the people who will represent the class must un- derstand the different views of the entire class. I know with the large number of students running for the two positions, how overwhelming all of these candidates must seem. However, don't kid yourself by !Jelieving promises which you yourself will have forgotten a half-hour after you've voted. It is up to you to vote for the person you feel will best be able to do the job. It is for this reason that I ask you to vote for me on Friday. I am the person who wants to and will represent you the best in this position. Barbie Valerie Barbie So far, the detailS of our freshman year have been coordinated for us. We have been brought together through the efforts of others in the Union community. Now, it is our chance to unite and become an active part of Union College through representation in the Student Forum. The freshmen are most fortunate to have access to the numerous activities present on this campus. However, without proper representation and participation in the Forwn we risk the loss of some of these activities. With the construction of the new student center in the near future, it is imperative that we as freshmen plan to utilize this facility to its fullest extent. As a representative to the Student Forwn, I- will look out for the best interests of our class and insure an active role for us in the Union College community. - Berkowitz Jeff Berkowitz As I see it, one of the best features of Union College is its size. Here, everybody has an opportunity to get involved. Everyone must work together in order for Union to work as a community.· Freshmen are as much a part of this community as anyone, and I would like to see a more unified class, as well as unification between the classes. This year's freshman class has a spirit that began during orientation and has been strong right through to the freshman dinner. I would like to see this spirit continue throughout the years. I believe in the qualities of our class, and as Frehsman Representative I would like an opportunity to draw from these qualities, to make the fresh- men's place in the Student Forum reach its fullest potential. I am prepared and anxious to accept the responsibilities that will .come if I am · elected as Freshman Representative. We are the class of '88, so vote Jeff Berkowitz for a strong voice on the Student Forum. j Cerrone I am declaring my candidacy for Freslunan Representative to the Student Forwn. Student involvement in decision-making at Union College is an integral part of the social and educational benefits we derive drom our college experience. During my high school career, I was actively involved as Advertising and Business Editor of our school paper, Vice President as well as President of our community Medical Explorers Post at Huntington Hospital, and a member of the Key Club. I am currently s t u d y in g M a n a g e ria I Economics and Mathematics at Union. I am a member of the Executive Board for the International Relations Club, Debate Club, Math Society, and a contributor to Concordiensis. If elected, I will ensure .. the consideration of student suggestions. In addition, I will strive to keep our class well informed about scheduled campus and club events. It is your responsibility, however, as a Union student to contribute your talents and abilities to better the class as a whole. We need everyone to demonstrate their unique qualities in order to give the Class of 1988 a distinc- tive identity. I feel it is imperative that each of us take advantage of our freedom to express ourselves through government as well as a diversity of student activities. Please exercise your vote tomorrow .. Let's make a difference . . . together. Vote: CAROLYN CERRONE (CARRIE) Fresh- man Representative to the Student Forum. Cohen David Cohen To the Class of 1988: Hello. I'm David Cohen and I am running for your representative to the Student Forwn. This forum is the method our student body has to voice its concerns to the ad- ministration; this task should not be taken lightly. This election is one of your first chances to help mold our next four years of campus life. I, for one, would be committed to making your suggestions realities. . Participation as a Union representative is not a foreign experience to me. I've served my floor as a Dorm Council Representative and am now the treasurer for Fox Dormitory. I'm not going to make all sorts of campaign promises to you because you know what happens to most of them . . . Many ideas, however, do come to mind (like let's get Fox's lounge open later so at least we can watch Letterman and Carson). Most of all, though, I want to work with you, making Union the best tbat it can be. Kim Hancock I believe that the Student Forum guarantees the student a voice in the happenings of Union College. Because of the im- portance of student input on decisions involving all of us, I am running for the position of Freshman Representative. I will bring to the position distinct qualities which include en- thusiasm, dependability and leadership abilities. In the past I have been class officer for two years, member of both the Student Council and S t u d e n t G o v e r n m e nt Organization for the past four years. I have also served as chairperson of numerous im- portant and influential com- mittees. Another different type of leadership position I have held is Editor-inmChief of my high school newspaper. My leadership experience has extended past the realm of my school when I represented my district as state-wide con- ventions including the New York State Board of Regents and Students Agains Driving Drunk. I'll bring to the position of FRESHMAN STUDENT FORUM REPRESENTATIVE a lot of enthusiasm, as well as a great deal of leadership, ex- perience and ability. I'd ap- preciate your vote Friday in Carnegie. VOTE: KIM HANCOCK STUDENT FORUM REPRESENTATIVE Harder Todd Harder Some people look at the world and ask why? I look at the world and ask why not? I'm Todd Harder and I want to represent you, the freshman class. My past experience in similar positions will be helpful in improving Union College as a whole and the freshman class' position at Union. First of all, I feel the present sorority rush system should be improved. Also, along with the majority of students, I feel the existing class schedule is satisfactory and that Gel-Time is a poor proposal. The hours for the Pub and Skellar Should also be lengthened. Other ideas include improving student awareness of clubs and activities at Union and maybe even improving the food and service at Union. I can only help you if you help me by voting. I don't want to watch things happen, I want to make things happen. Todd Harder. Ellen Kapiloff Do you know what the Student Forum is? Can you name one issue brought in front of the board last term? As freshmen, we are newcomers to Union's political climate. We have no way of knowing what has happened in the past or what issues f~ce us in the future. My name is . Ellen Kapiloff and I am running for freshman representative to the Student Forum, I also did not know what this governing body was about until recently. I believe that there is little attempt at bringing the freshmen to feel a Kapiloff part of Union's. political cam- -pus. Outside of fraternity and sorority life, we freshmen are ieft in the cold. I feel that I can create the \missing link\ between the freshmen and upper\classmen alike. A$ representative, I can at- tempt to- organize a Freshman Newsletter. A bi-monthly report of the Forum meetings can be written containing information relevant to the freshman class. In this way, we can all be aware of Union's political happenings. I will also make myself ac- cessible to the class to listen to your suggestions and hear how you feel about the issues. Our main problem at present is equal representation. I will strive to make myself and the student government accessible to each and every freshman. Being involved in ·student government for seven years now, I have much experience to back my ideas. I have held key positions in the governing body of my high school, including Co- . President & Secretary. Such experience has taught me how to work effectively with people and most efficient ways to employ my plans. Elect me, Ellen Kapiloff, as Freshman Representative to the Student Forum so that the freshman class at-Union College Will finally have a strong voice in student happenings. Paula Nadeau Hi! I am Paula Nadeau and I am running for representative to the Student Forum for our great class of 1988 for several reasons. Perhaps the most important of these is my genuine love for government Nadeau and my wish to make sure that our Class is well represented and our mutual interests are held secure. Here at Union my major is six year Law and Public Policy in conjunction with Albany Law School. I have had previous experience in Student Council and my senior year I was u 0 > ..0 :g .... 0 .s:: 0. ~

and are can at- be ~ss. ac- to is ble ~nt to ~o- to as to ~al ~nt s u Cl >- .c <II 0 .... 0 J: 0. ~ CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1985 P~ge5 Election Statements- Entertainment chairman and won the Student Council Award for doing the most for the school and community. I was involved in numerous other activities including Field . Hockey, Basketball and Track and I was also Secretary of the local chapter of the National Honor Society .and Treasurer of the Future l3usiness Leaders of America. Besides my previous ex- perience in government areas, the main reason that I believe I would make a good represen- tative is because I really care about what happens at Union in regards to our class and school policy in general. I can say in good faith that I will give dedication and energy to this representative position because it is truly what I like to do. Please vote for me. You will not regret it. Stuart Steinberg I, Stuart Steinberg, am running for the position of freshman representative. If elected, I. will do my best to represent the Class of 1988, hopefully making it· the best class ever at Union College. My experience in student government provides me with a great background of how student government operates. I was secretary of my high school class for three consecutive years, as well as a member of the student council. Among The English Department is pleased to announce that Hugh Kenner, Andrew Mellon Professor of English at Johns Hopkins University will be visiting Union for two weeks, February 4-February 15, as Thomas Lamont Visiting Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature. On Wednesday, February 6, at 8 p.m., in Social Sciences 016 Professor Kenner will present a lecture entitled \James Joyce and the Printing Press'' (a reception will follow in Milano Lounge). This talk is free and open to the public. The world's leading authority on Ezra Pound and author of highly acclaimed books on Pound, James Joyce, Samuel Beckett, T. S. Eliot, Wyndham Lewis, Buckminster Fuller, the Irish Renaissance, satire, geodesic mathematics, • many . •. Stei many of the important decisions I made were the planning of the yearly bloodmobile, the senior and junior prom sites as well as . the bands, and, of course, the graduation ceremony. Because of my deep knowledge of student govern- ment, and my very bright ideas, I .feel that I am very well qualified for the position of freshm~n representative. Susan Witko.ff I, Susie Witkoff, feel I am qualified as your freshman representative because I am genuinely concerned and in- terested with the direction of others, Professor Kenner has been described in the New York Times as a critic who \bestrides modern literary property 'if not like a Colossus then at least as a presence of formidable proportions ... there is no critic who has more firmly established his claim.'' Professor Kenner's books include The Poetry of Ezra Pound, Dublin's Joyce,.The Art of Poetry, The Invisible Poet: T .S. Eliot, Samuel Beckett, The Stoic Comedians, The Cowt- terfeiters: An Historical Comedy, A Homemade World, Geodesic Math and How to Use It, Joyce's Voices, Ulysses, A Colder Eye, The Pound Era, Bucky: A Guided Tour of Buck- minster Fuller. While on campus Professor Kenner will teach English 71, A ryptcal winter:·s di'I'Y at·Union ..... ;· .. · the freshman class. My goal is to see that the freshman class be included in all the various opportunities Union College has to offer. Thus, eventually our class as a whole will be aware of the pressing . concerns and important happenings on campus. · This past Monday evening, I sat in on a Student Forum · Witkoff meeting. After listening to certain issues such as freshman parking privileges, amend- ments to Union's constitution, club financing, and the renovation of the Alumni gym, I felt I also had positive input to contribute to the issues being discussed. The plans for the creation of a Student Center were not discussed at the Literature of the Irish Renaissance, with Professor Adrian Frazier. Also, he will visit a number of classes in-· eluding English 68, Con- temporary British and American Poetry;_ English .39, European Novel in Translation; English 57, Literature of the 17th Century; English 77, Contemporary American Novel; English 190, Seminar in Drama; E.L.L. 31, TeGhnology, Society and Human Values; and French $49, ··Dada and Surrealism. He will be available for conversations with students . and faculty. Those wishing further in- formation about Professor Kenner's class . schedule and office hours may call the English Department extension 6231 during the week of January 28. meeting, though I am very. interested in seeing that Union creates a central meeting place where the students can gather and take advantage of various activities there. My interaction with others in activities such as Crew, WRUC radio, aerobics, Career Development Center, and the Student Forum meetings, has made me equipped and anxious to represent YOU, the_ freshman class of 1988, and to give YOU all that Union has to offer. Rochelle Zamore Being a freshman Zamore representative to the Student Forum is .a serious job. It en- tails investigating the needs and requirements of the class and delivering those services. An important aspect of college life is a unified class. The Fresh- man Dinner was a good start, and now I would like to see more freshman activities. The proposed renovations for Carnegie and Alumni Gym can be very advantagous to our class. I would like to see the class of '88 utilize these new facilities to their fullest capacity. Let's make the rest of our years at Union College the best they can be. Let your voice be heard, vote ROCHELLE ZAMORE as your represen- tative to the Student Forwn and it will be. Problems of our immediate concern include the condition of the dorms and lounges. Fox dorm lounge has just been rennovated and I would like to see more ·Of the lounges made conducive to students needs. I also see much improvements needed in the condition of the bathrooms and showers in the dormitories. Another big issue facing us is the controversy over Skellar and Pub closing hours. I would like to see that these prime areas of social act.ivities remain open later than they presently are. 'll....,....... ......... ~~ ..... ,~ ·.,... i\''. .. i. -·. ~~; --~·- . Lori Leon, no statement ••••••••••••••••••••••••e•••••••••~m••••••o•••••••••o•••••••e•••••••••••••••••••• . . . . . . ~ Thelnternaflonal ~ . . • • i Relations Club i . . i Is Alive and Busy! ~ : We would like to send 8 people down to New York City for 5 : : days in April to participate in a model UN. : : We would also like to send 4 people to Mt. Holyoke College i in Massachusetts for 4 days to participate in a conference on : 0 \The Global Politics of Nuclear Stra.tegy.\ : If you would like to participate in either event, or you would : like to join our club, contact Eric at 6977 or Prof. Klunk in the : . Poli. Sci. Dept. : Join Us And See The World! i ••••••••••••••••e•••••••••--•••••••••••••e••••••••••••••••••••e•••••••••••$•••• BEACHCOMBER TOURS PRESENTS 16th Annual Spring Break in FT. LAUDERDALE aOcean front accommodations -one block from the BuHon -8 days/7 nights Roundtrip Bus & Hotel Hotel only Roundtrip Bus $284.00 $184.00 $139.00 Limited Space Available Contact: Pete Gillen 382-9582

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, January 14, 1985 -~--- '\ 'flf!IW'' . JSU Presents Israeli Brigadier General Aryeh Sha lev, former Military Com- mander of the West Bank. speaking. on: The Security Problems of Israel. Tonight! Thursday, January 24 at8:00 p.m. in SS016 Amendments to the CoC By-Laws VIII.Criteria tor Continued Student Activity Recognition A. The CoC must oversee all app.-oved 'student activity groups to ensure that these groups meet the following criteria. 1. The group must continue to meet the needs for which it was in- tended. 2. The group's constitution must be followed. 3. The group must have at least five active members. 4. The group must continually seek to create and maintain the active membership. 5. The group must submit a Club Status Report by the Friday of the sixth week of each term. B. Each CoC member will be assigned an agreed upon number of student activity groups to oversee. C. If the Club Status Report is not received by the CoC by 5:00 on the given deadline, the CoC will do the following: 1. The club will be automatically placed on CoC \Conditional Status\ and must appear at the next coc meeting to submit the late report and explain the group's shortcomings. 2. At this time the coc may remove a club from coc \Conditional Status\ by a majority vote of the CoC. 3. Failing this, the CoC will submit the club's name to the Chair- person of the Finance Committee who will automatically freeze the club's budget. 4. When the CoC chairperson receives the late report, he/she will remove the club from CoC \Conditional Status\ and may recommend to the Chairperson of the Finance Committee to unfreeze the budget. D. Represented by C. of the present by-laws. E. Represented by D. of the present by-laws. F. Represented by E. of the present by-laws. Alcohol Education Day: Forum Addresses Issue.s By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER . Staff The Union College Student Forwn met for its second time this term on Monday, January 21. A wide variety of issues was discussed at the meeting, in- cluding the Freshman Dinner and CoC by-law .changes. First to be addressed by the Forum was an emergency passage of the Pnion College Aerobics Club's constitution. Although the details of the issue were not laid out, it appeared that passage of the constitution was vital if the clug were to continue functioning. Normally there is a week wait between the psoposal of a new constitution for approval and its passage; however, in this case, V.P .. of Administration (and CoC Chairperson) Susan Brand felt an exception was necessary. The constitution passed unanimously. Forum President Steven Benson then announced the upcoming Alcohol Awareness Seminar to be held at Sienna College. The lecture is tope held on February 16. Of the Forum members, Steve Benson,. Brian Laux, and Roger Harris will be attending. Junior Trustee Andrew George reported about the success of the President's Dinner for the Freshman Class. George reported that all went well with the evening. Although attendance at the dance was less than expected, the general consensus was that the evening was a success. Benson then reported upon a proposal that is in the works for a lecture series to be held in the N ott Memorial. Provisions would be made with Food Service so students could use their meal cards at the Pub in order to purchase lwlCh prior to lecture. Dave Marin was chosen to look further intQ the issue. The focus of the meeting then turned to the committee reports. Chairperson of the Committee on Committees (CoC), Sue Brand, d~tr-ibuted a . copy of the revision of the CoC by-laws concerning the criteria for continued Student Activity Recognition. The proposal involves stricter measures when dealing with clubs who fail to demonstrate continued. activity. A vote on the by-laws was tabled until next week .. Brand also .{loted that the CoG had two places for members on the newly formed Computer Advisory Committee. Two appointments were made this year due to lac!{ of time. Next · year the selections will be made through the traditional ap- plication process. Attention then turned toward the report of the Student Affairs Council, by Mary Philips. The SAC has finished· its discussion of the on-campus parking issue with no definite solution reached. Although several proposals were discussed, no policy · was accepted. The problem will now be handled by Jack Hill of Campus Operations, who will discuss the issue with the administration. Academic Affairs Representative Tom Megarian then presented the AAC report. The AAC is still addressing the problem of faculty load and methods for its reduction. The AAC is also discussing the Minerva Committee's suggestion for an 11:30 lecture meeting time. Senior Trustee, Shari Midoneck, reported that work continues on the issue of the fourth on-campus sorority. Three .sororities have been invited to the campus, and have made presentations to the Panhellenic Extension Com- mittee. The committee will soon be making a selection, if they · feel a fourth sorority is d!!Sired. After the committee's approval, approval by the colleg-e's cabinet is also required. . Trustees Andrew George and Shari Midoneck presented their report on the recent Trustees . meeting. George reported that there will be an.B percent tuition increase with financial aid also being increased. The student activities budget was also discussed, in particular the increase of the student ac- tivities fee. College .funding of certain organizations which are currently being funded by the Forum was also discussed. As a result of the talk, the Trustees want a full report (by the V. P. for Finance) on the buegeting process of the Forum. Lastly to . be covered by the Trustees were the plans of the Alumni Gym renovation. The upcoming Freshman Elections were the next topic of Forum discussion. It was reported that fourteen can· didates are running for the two Freshman Representative positions. The elections are to be held Friday. In a related issue, Sophomore Representative Steve Moss proposed that the Freshman reps be given greater exposure to the Forwn and its sub- committees by having both reps function as ad hoc members on each of the committees. This would provide the reps with more exposure, although they would be rion-voting members of the conunittees. A motion was made for approval of the measure, with a vote taken. The measure passed unanimously. With no other ''New Business\ to discuss, the Forwn adjourned. TAP Parity TGps Again By MITCHELL J. STEIN Staff In the past year Tuition Assistance Plan (TAP) has seen a surge of interest in the New York State Legislature. TAP is a New York State funded grant to college students who go to schools in, and are residents of New York State. TAP began in 1974 to help the independent sector of higher education when it was in trouble. TAP was designed to allow a choice between private and state schools by providing up to 60 percent of private school tuition. Over the years since 1974 TAP hasn't raised its award to a great extent, and the maximum grant in real dollars has dropped. Last year, when the TAP Parity Bill was introduced in the N.Y. State Legilsature, TAP was brought up to a 37 percent tuition maximwn or $2,700. Phase two of the .plan is now in the legislature where attempts are being made to raise the maximum award from $2,700 to $3,100, with an eligibility ceiling raised from $29,000 net taxable family income to $33,000. Senator Lavalle and which tries to act as the ad- vocate for private schools in New York. The ISC's current president is Union's Student Forum President Steve Benson. The ISC has already directed a formal drive collecting spon- sors for TAP Parity in the legislature. TAP Equity is another bill that will be coming into the legislature this year. TAP Equity is especially directed at emancipated students. The current award maximum for amancipated students under TAP Equity is $1,800 and an increase to $3,000 is desired, with a rise in ceiling income from $5,667 to $11,000. Siena Invites Union Assemblyman Kremmer are two legislators who are actively working to pass phase two of TAP Parity. The TAP Parity Bill was originally conceived last year as a four year plan to return TAP to its 60 percent level. The Bill was changed and now every year it must be passed by the Legislature. The Independent Student Coalition (ISC) has the passing of TAP Parity on the top of its priority list. The ISC is a state- wide student organization TAP is more than just a plan to help students. It is a system by which independent schools like Union have a great financial burden taken off. If the legislative bills are passed, the number of TAP recipients would greatly increase and the accelerating pace -of private school tuition, would decrease. By PETER MOHR Staff For the past few years, there has been a rising national concern about college drinking. New York State is no exception; the drinking age may soon reach twenty-one. In response to this issue, Siena College will be holding a symposium on alcohol education on Feburary 16. Siena has invited anyone from Union who is interested in this subject. Lorraine Marra, Coordinator of Student Activities, plans on attending the seminar and urges students to join her there. She hopes that student leaders, such as members of the Student Forum and Residence Advisors, will attend as well. The deadline for registration is Wednesday, February 6. Administrators are also invited. The day will consist mostly of talks. Senator Howard Nolan will be the keynote speaker. He will lecture on the probability that New York's drinking age will be raised to twenty-one and the effects that this law will have. There will also be a speech on recognizing a campus drinking problem. Marra says that this talk should be especially helpful to students in recognizing a campus drinking problem. Marra says that this talk should be especially helpful to students in recognizing the presence, and the severity, of a drinking problem at Union. The symposium was organized by Siena's BACCHUS chapter (Boost Alcohol Con- sciousness Concerning the Health of University students). This nationwide organization is concerned with informing students about alcohol and its effects if abused. At Siena, BACCHUS is funded by the Student Senate. Marra thinks that this organization is very wor- thwhile. \I think it's important for every school to have something like this,\ she says. She hopes that the Student Forwn will look into. organizing a BACCHUS chapter at Union. Marra hopes to see Union students at Siena on February 16 for the symposium. Registration forms are available in her office and must be returned by February 6. Other Papers May Come and Go Established 1877 Continuous Service To The Union Community For 106 Years

the 'Com- soon and their that Uition ~.also udent also the ac- ng of the a V.P. to were Gym an of was can- ~ two to sub- reps This with they bers the The ~ew the ad- in ~d a the bill the at for an Ian em If ed, nts THE WILLIAMS COl~LEGE MYSTIC SEAPORT ., ... · .. · ... . ···· .. ·.·.··)>~ .· .. · .... , .. ,' ·~·. PROGRAM IN AMERICAN MARITIME STUDIES 'For Further Information See Dean William Daniels AppUcation Deadline: Feb. 8 Where was that young man on the far left thirty years ago this July 17.? He was hosting along with . actor Robert Cummings and Art Linkletter, the live ninety-minute coast-to-coast television broadcast of Disneyland's opening. Three decades later one finds Ronald Reagan in the CONCORDIENS/S, January 24, 1985 Page7 Senior Cabaret Tuesday\ Jan. 29 • 9 & 11 p.mQ Cabaret Room All Are Invited! Beer & Mun:chies Marcy Wilde,r .. MC If any seniors are interested in waitressing Contact Lori Kaplan 382 .. 8768 or Jill 'Liebman 346-6280 Court Gestures . . . conung, conung very soon Tuesday night Feb. 5, 1985 • Cabaret Room BE THERE OR BE TRAPEZOIDAL c endy Richards Act 11--Scott Remillard Thursday, January 24 shows at 9 & 11 p.m. Tickets on sale at Student Activities Now! Proper I D Required· If you are interested in being a waiter or waitress for this show, contact Debbie or Diane at 6475 before Thursday. White House while Disneyland celebrates its .thirty year anniversary. Plans are underway to honor the Magic Kingdon's 250 mi.llionth visitor and to celebr·ate 1985, Disneyland's thirtieth year, with a year long jubilee. Everyone interested in conducting tours as a Union GATESMAN There will be a general meeting on Wed- nesday, January 30 at 7 p.m. in the Banquet Room (Carnegie) Please see letter in this issue for more info CLUB HEADS: Advertise your meeting in the Classifieds.

Page 8 C1 'IVCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1985 Cabaret Returns For almost two years now. Cabaret has been a missed institution by the students old enough to even remember it. But Cabaret has gotten its act together and will start up again .torught. It is hoped that the campus will turn out in force for both shows, thus encouraging Cabaret's resurgence as a student ac~ tivity, as well as a form of student expression and entertainment. The last few years have seen almost a total disappearance of Coffeehouse and Cabaret. The campus has, thus, been left with fewer and fewer forms of relaxation in the form of college-sponsored entertainment. Cabaret can be that alternative to the Skeller and the Pub. In its heyday, both the 9 and 11 p.m. shows would be seld out. At a time when the drinking age has risen to 19 and looks as if it might go to 21, it is surprising that students have not searched for a form of amusement that did not necessarily have to include alcohol. Given a chance, Cabaret can serve that purpose. Tuition Increase Students come to Union because they ·want \the best.\ Of course, \the best\ can only be had at a very expensive price, otherwise it would not~ ''the best.'' We are therefore grateful to the college ad- ministration for jacking up the price of Union's tuition another $725. We are even more overjoyed to learn that room and board is also increasing. However, we are sorry that some students will not be able to afford to come to Union now. Let them go to their community colleges instead. They probably are not bright enough to come here anyway. So, last year they raised $200,000 more in residence fees than was needed. A little surplus never did anyone any harm. Hopefully, with the 7.1 percent increase in these fees, we will have an even bigger surplus than ever! As for the endowment, we are happy to report that the college has been making more money than they estimated, at least according to the student trustees. It is in the estimation process, however, that the amount of money could go into the budget, it is true, but that would only decrease the amount that must be made up through tuition, and we would not want that. All kidding aside, the administration does have some legitimate claims for the tuition increase. Union costs must be kept at a level comparable to other institutions, operating costs and faculty salaries do rise each year, and much has been done lately to improve the appearance of the campus. Students do see great things happening to Union: a new student center, a new gymnasium, renovations on existing buildings, etc. Yet, the cost of having these changes, in fact the cost of attaining a Union education, has become very steep. Even with student loans, parent loans, and Union loans, the price of coming to Union has become too expensive for many of the less wealthy students. Seniors are heaving sighs of relief that they are leaving. Must the rest of us merely grin and bear it? Anything bothering you? Make yourself heard! Write a le.Her to the editor To the Editor: Remember corning to Union for the very first time? Remember wearing your \interview outfit?\ Remember meeting your interviewer, who would be deciding tl:Je fate of the rest of your life? Remember how every school .seemed the best? Remember how Union stood out because of the great tour you took? The Gatemen are the honorary group of up· perclassmen who conduct those · fantastic tours. And now, you can become one too. To the Editor: 1) Do the students of Union College know why tuition will go up by 8 percent next year? Answer: NO. The inflation rate under the Reagan Administration was only 4 percent yet our cost of attending Union is increasing by twice that figure. Has John Hauser set up a meeting to explain to the student body why tuition is going up so much? No, so we . have to make our own assumptions. The only logical explanation I can see is that of admissions. Union College is trying to be mentioned in the same breath as Williams, Amherst, etc. and in order to achieve this they are trying to keep in the same range of price for tuition. They figure if we are lower that we are an inferior school. The thing about this theory is that it is ridiculous, if you were going to hire a student Study of College Student Depression to be Conducted at Union During the winter term, a major psychological study of depression in normal college students will be conducted at Union. Most past studies of depression in college students have assumed that moods or · prolonged periods of depression reflected pathology or problems of the individual. This. study, however, will look at depression as a nonnal, typical experience during the college years, and perhaps even as associated wiih important developmental changes in this stage of life. The ·research team, headed by Prof. Benack in the Psychology Department, hopes to survey about 300 students this winter. Students who par- ticipate will fill out four questionnaires related to everyday experiences of depression and to other per- sonal attitudes and attributes. All responses will be . anonymous. The questionnaires will be given in the Psychology Bullding and the dorms and fraternities and sororities during the next several weeks. Signup sheets are at most central locations on campus, or send your name and box number to Depression Research, c-o Prof. Benack, Psychology Department, to receive a schedule of times and locations. Being a Gatesman is a large responsibility, but a very fun one. We usually give about five tours per term, each lasting about one hour. In the process, yottlearn a lot about Union, and· its history. But, most im- portant, giving tours is your chance to help out the school, and reap great personal satisfaction as, well. It is very exciting to see freslunen who took your tour arrive at 'Union. It's quite rewarding to have a freshman come up to you and tell you that your tour made the difference and helped to make their college decision. (It happens! ! ) Best of all, you '11 be able to show your pride in Union Questions from a small liberal arts college versus another student from a school with a higher tuition, would you even care about the tuition; or simply the quality of the worker you hire. The students of Union College are losing a few hundred dollars each per year, becl!use of our admissions office trying to keep us competitive. Am I right? I hope not. I hope someone from the administration tells us soon . though 2)Are the students of Fox Dormitory getting the most out of the lounge that was. recently built? . Answer, No. For some reason the school thinks most of the students are in bed, after 11 at night, so they shut the lounge. Is this the real story? NO. The school has spent thousands of dollars on admissions. This beautiful and spacious lounge looks great to a tour, yet we all to people from around the country. A general meeting for everyone interested in applying to become a Gatesman will be held Wednesday, January 30 at 7 p.m. in the Banquet Room (Carnegie). If you are still interested, but unable to attend the meeting, stop in at the Admissions Office and speak to either Chip Magee or Ann Lowery. Anyone who is enthlisiastic and proud of Union is en- couraged to apply· Ann C. Lowery Ass't. Dean of Admissions know how superficial this notion really is. The lounge has a , student security guard, and is not as open to students as it really should be. Interestingly enough, many of the admissions staff attended the grand opening. Just what Union needs, a lotinge to help attract students to Union that is not used to its potential. Why not use the· lounge to its potential, if at all. 3) Were the renovations in the Pub an intelligent investment? Answer, NO. While some of the parts, such as the stained glass in the bar are movable, many are not and are just useless, when we consider a new pub will be completed in the new student center. The school has apparently wasted more of our money. We need an explanation. The Student Environmental Alliance Each Thursday at noon the C~ncordiensis is dropped off at Carnegie. PLEASE help carry a stack or two into Carnegie on your way in if possible. Thank you.

the for be at the to ~nn en- a is it ~ly II. of ~d e, a CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1985 Page9 Greens Not Just Protestors By ANDY WELLEN Staff Last week Coilc~rdy printed an article about Professor Tidmarch' s trip to West Ger- many. The article included yet another simplistic, inaccurate account of the West German Greens. The a1:1thor states that the Greens are a bunch of protestors who do not know how to govern. It is unclear in the article whether the author of Tidmarch is responsible forthis description. . Nevertheless, the Greens are more than a bunch of protestors who not only accurately critique much of mainstream political culture, but also develop alternative visions by forging connections between ecological responsibility, social fairness, and global peace. The Greens show their ability to govern by being an active part . of local and national parliaments. They present morebillsthan the ot~er parties and also form coalitions with the Social Democrats. In the Hesse parliament, the Greens have compromised on some bills with · the Social Democrats so that other bills would be allowed through such as a commitment to not building any new nuclear power plants or highways. The Greens publicize alternatives to costly and dangerous nuclear power by promoting energy con- servation and safe, renewable energy sources including wfndmills and photovoltaic solar cells. They al~o publicize the need for energy efficient public transportation and in- creased bicycle use to offset the need for private automobiles. In fact, the Greens in Bonn are among the few parliamen- tarians who ride their bicycles to work. The Greens have also passed bills to require coal scrubbers on coal fired electric generating plants to reduce the limount of sulfer dioxide emissions which is a primary cause of acid rain. Tho~gh the Greens ultimately destre change from en- vironmentally destructive .coal use to alternative sources of energy, they understand the need for transitions such as coal and scrubbers. The Greens do more than simply promote bills of ecological concern, but rather view the ecological perspective as inextricably linked with issues of social responsibility. They seek the development of small to medium sized worker- owned enterprises where the individual is not voiceless within a vast, production process but is ratb.er par- ticipating in an industrial process that is on a more human sized scale. The Greens support worker-owned initi;::ttives, such as a' tool factory in Bremen, which seek to keep people employed while choosing to produce clean, renewable energy instead of weapons. The multi-faceted Greens not only work through the electoral process, but also are connected with citizens groups. The Green parliamentarian~ give a portion of their salary to these groups as these groups, in turn, par- ticipate in a continual dialogue with the elected Greens con- cerning both local and federal platform issues. For example, the Greens support citizens groups in initiating a'Iternative projects involving small scale cooperative groups ranging from craft or repair shops to ~ wind or solar energy projects. There are approximately 10,000 of these projects throughout West Germany. Charlene Spretnak in Green Polities says \according to the Greens, alternative projects represent grassroots responses to the alienation of work in large in- dustries and large offices, to the evident uselessness and sen- selessness of large portions of inductrial production, and to the quantitative and qualitative lack of care in social institutions like kindergartens or day care centers.\ This does not mean, however, that the Greens want to abandon these useless in- dustries in a way which leads to massive unemployment.. Rather, their economic program states \in a social economy there will be no unemployment. Instead, there will be a just distribution of socially necessary work. . .'' Many Greens who are in- volved with the peace movement not only perceive much of .the weapons industry as socially unnecessary . but actually destructive to the ecosystem and to the potenUal for global peace. The Greens do not believe in deploying cruise ·and :pershing II missiles because it changes the qualitative balance between the superpowers. In fact, the Greens see that even witbout cruise and pershing II's, NATO has a qualitative lead in the arms race due to its advantage in accurate warheads, etc. This advantage in the arms race leads Petra Kelly of the Greens to say, \the Russian SS'20's, SS 4's, and SS 5's must be reduced alongside the category ·Of Poseiden, Polaris, and the French and British forward- based systems, but we (NATO) must begin the first phase, without conditions attached. The Greens continually educate the public in order to dispel NATO's claim .for needing new weapons' systems especially since NATO has not made sincere steps to stop the mad escalation of the nuclear arms race. The Greens have attracted many people because in such a congested country the ovennilitarization of the society and the destructive aspects of acid rain are closely felt. This forces people to question deeply the present direction of Western industrialization. .:LT~ ANon\E~ AVE'l.A6E DA '{ Ai UN 1 ON COLLEGE AS EVBffS WOtNL •• HOW ABoUT lo\AS\-\'£.1> B,R,o<.c.oL.I ~TRAINE1> $AUt!fU{ftA\JT, ,JC..I(.LEt> BANANAS ••• I~E. TilE\~ t:AM\LIAi C.OUlSf:.S .... '?uP fE.T f1ASTER?! f\~GH!' ,~- COMMENTARIES Admission Receptionist Jean Bennis Bennis Retiring By J. MARSHALL Staff Indeed, one may assume that the beautiful lady who sits at the reception desk has welcomed every Union student to \the College Grounds\ at one point. After 12 years in the Admissions OffiCe, Mrs. Bennis (known as Jean to many of us) will retire at the end of January. However, after some traveling, she will resume her desire to help people in some other fonn of work. Jean has met thousands of students and .parents from many different states and countries during her time as 'feceptionist. The personal satisfaction and kind words from these people have been most gratifying to her. Also, Jean has worked closely Letters to the editor and commentaries do not necesarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis. with the Gatesmen, the Student Host Program, and other im- portant college organi~ations .. She has only the kindest of words to express to the students who really have sold the college and expressions of gratitude that all visitors have related to her after their return from such tours. A close relationship to Union students has often made her feel like they were her own kin, and many graduates still keep in touch with her. Jean states that she will always have a close spot in her heart for the college, and she wishes it continued success .. Likewise, every member of the college community should wish Jean continued success and happiness in her future en- deavors .. All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters rriust be signed but names will be withheld upon request .. .. , .. Al{D 1\{f~S. 'lLI't~ Me 1>£GIAl'l.tc;. TO WDM!N ! J.k>W' CAN 1\IE: GUU.~ 1N 1'M£~E. FILMS LET TttEMS£L\E~ SE l>E.HoiALit..ED L lt:E..TtlA'T 1 ..,..-~ ... AHb MER.. 1Hffii6J ••• MUlHUtOL.A RE'TU~NS DNL t ~Itt£) ,-..,AT J-\\~ P\C1UtE WA~ lf'l A C.Ati\OOII&· Nor 6N 1\lf.~ PACE JAN UCEEN DE:\f\Sf.S A~M£R 'J)E.L- \ \-I.OUS. MEN'-> roC. WE.ST VA'RtOflS SWD6NT WOMEN'~ ~6ANt\Z.ATI ON~ PREPA~ TO IDDA-n::\L-~P'AtlffH£R~\~U\..T I=ILM fEA\\lte: (.OL..t..EeiE Ar4t) Hoe.t~E How A&ou'T iHIS OME? ~TRAIGHT A .. s \N rl\ GaH ~CIIOOL, \\R-1-.EE. VAl$\ TY LETTE~r~rv·,~·~~~~~~~~•

Page 10. FINANCIAL AID The sisters of the Union College Tri-Delta chapter are sponsoring a competition for a $500 scholarship. The recipient will automatically be entered in competition for one of four $1,000 national scholarship awards. Applicants will be considered on the basis of academic record, ex- tracurricular activities and community service, .promise of seFVice to their chosen field, and financial need. Applications may be obtained at the Student Activitues Office, and at the Financial Aid Office. Deadline for sUbmission: March 1, 1985. The Society for the Advan- cement of Material and Process Engineering (SAMPE) will offer twelve $1,000 awards to students majoring in a field related to Materials and Pro c e s s e s ( C hem i.e a 1 Engineering, Chemistry, ·Physics, etc.). Applications are available in the Financial Aid Office. Deadline for sub- mission: February 1, 1985. The Purchasing Management Association of Eastern New York is offering two $650 scholarships to students exhibiting an interest in Pur~ chasing a<J a possible career. Applications and additional infonnation is available in the Financial Aid Office. Deadline for submission: March 1, 1985. The Regents of the State of New York are offering 312 renewable awards of up to $3,000 each to New v!lrk State residents who are working toward certification as a teacher of math or science. Recipients must agree to teach the equivalent of one academic year in New York State for every two years of awards received. Applications for additional information is available in the Financial Aid Office. Deadline for sub- mission: March 1, 1985. The National Society of Public Accountants (NSPA) is conducting a scholarship competition for \students who have indicated a firm intention to pursue their accounting studies to a successful con- clusion and who have indicated a desire to enter the profession of public accounting.'' For more information and an application, write to: NSPA Scholarship Foundation; 1010 North Fairfan St., Alexandria, VA 22314. Deadline for submiSsion: February 28, 1985. The Society of Exploration Geophysicists (SEG) is offering more than 107 awards of $750 to $2,000 to students enrolled in a course of study that will lead to a career in exploration geophysics. For more in- formation and an application, write to: SEG Education Foundation, P.O. Box 3098, Tulsa, OK 74101. Deadline for submission: March 1, 1985. The Jewish Foundation for Education of Women is a non- sectarian organization that offers need-based grants and interest-free loans. Information and applications can be ob- tained by writing to the Foundation at 120 West 57th St.; New York, NY 10019. Deadline for submission: January 31, 1985. The American Society of Naval Engineers is offering no- need-based awards to students CONCORDIENSIS, January24.1985 enrolled in a program of study related to naval engineering (including Electrical Engineering}. Applications and additional information are available in the Financial Aid Office. Deadline for sub- mission: February 15, 1985. The President's Committee on Mental Retardation is of- fering a need-based $5,000 scholarship for advanced study in the field of mental retar- dation. For further information and an application, write to: The President's Committee on Mental Retardation, U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, Office of Human Development Services, Washington, D.C. 20201. Deadline for ~ubmission: March 1, 1985. The State of N.ew Jersey is offering $4,000 renewable awards to graduate students in a non-professional degree program at a New Jersey in- -stitution. Applications are available in the Financial Aid Office. Deadline ' for sub- mission: March 1, 1985. The Graduate and Professional School Financial Aid Service (GAPSFAS) . application for 1985-86 is now available in the Financial Aid Office. These applications will qualify you for need-based institutional and ''campus- based\ federal financial aid at many graduate and professional schools. The PURCHASING MANAGEMENT ASSOCIA- TION OF EASTERN NEW YORK will award two scholarships in the amount of $650.00 for the 1985-86 academic year. Additionally, each award includes a one-year dues-free men;1bership in the Purchasing Management Association of Eastern New York, and the opportunity to attend, at no cost, all educational meetings and seminars sponsored by the Association. To be eligible, the student must be enrolled on a full-time basis in a local college or university, at the level of Junior or above during the academic year 1985-86. To apply for the award, the student should obtain an ap- plication form from Richard W. Powell, W.H. Smith Paper Corporation, P.O. Box 1290, Albany, New York 12201. CAREER NEws· INTERNSHIPS & FELLOWSHIPS (Information available at the Career Development Center) The National Internship Service located in Washington, D.C., helps University students find internships and career oriented summer jobs. The Smithsonian Institution offers internships and fellowships in the various museums and galleries of the Smithsonian. ·Washington Center Intern- *** Vote for· Freshman Rep *** ships are available for juniors and seniors interested in the workings of the government and· international issues. Application deadline for swruner program is March l. Reuben H. Donnelley is looking for a sales-marketing intern for June-August 1985. It is a full~time position for stu~ents completing their junior year. Must be mature, ·reliable, have good writing ability, in- terpersonal skills, adept with calculator, and ability with statistical analysis. The Graduate School of Management and Urban Profess.fons New School of Social Research locate(rm New York ·city offers the Jacob M. Kaplan fellowship in Urban Affairs and Policy Analysis. These fellowships are for seniors interested in pursuing a career in public service. The Metropolitan MuseUin of Art will offer ten asSistantships to gr~duate students. Students become familiar with museum operations and gain firsthand experience. A strong background in Art llistory and one year of graduate school is required. Applications are due February 15, 1985. The Graduate School University of Southern California offers fellowships to seniors or recent graduates aiming toward a Ph.D. at USC who are interested in University teaching and research. Application deadline: February 1. 1985. Nature's Classroom Intern Program. This is a teaching internship available to non- degree personnel who have completed at least two years of college. It is a live-in position with room and board and a stipend provided. Afro-American Graduate Fellowship and Teaching Assistantships at Syracuse University. Fellows must be full time graduate students and are eligible to hold assistantships unless they are already holding appointments. Application deadline February 1, 1985. The Consumer Energy Council of America offers Research Fellowships for graduate students . in economics, law, planning, political science, public ad- ministration and policy, and sociology. Applicants must have at least a bachelor's degree. Appointments will be for 6·12 months. Smith College offers summer teaching intern programs at the Smith-Northampton summer school. The program is for liberal arts graduates preparing to teach in elementary and secondary schools. During the six-week program, interns can acquire up to eight graduate hours of credit. The New York Hospital- To all student activity chairmen: All boxes for Concordiensis must be typed/ If you wish to run an ad for more than one; week, cut the arl out of the paper and tipe Jl .. to a sheet of paper. ,;.:~:,~ ;,··\'1..; Cornell Medical Center offers a pre-career . volunteer program to qualified students interested in the disciplines. of. a mental hospital. Students have previously worked in patient halls, Children's service, music therapy, and many other divisions. The eight-week program beginning in June helps students learn about careers in the mental health field. The Metropolitan Museum of Art offers a ten-week internship for college juniors and seniors. The program runs from June 10 - August 16. Students must have a strong art history background. Application deadline is February 22, 1985. PROGRAM CANCELLATIONS International Careers Panel (originally scheduled for Monday, January 28) has been cancelled. · RECRUITING UPDAT~ Staub, Warmbold & Associates, Inc. will be recruiting_ on campus for summer internships. Position is research assistant in executive search firm. Interviews will be February 18, 1985. Open signups will be February 8. Students should bring a resume to sign up. . AT & T corning Wednesday, February 13, 1985. Looking for BS-MS in CS, EE, IE. 3.0 GPA requirement. · _ Pratt & Whitney Manufac- turing coming Friday, February 15. Looking for BS in CS, MT, ME, EE, CE. NYPIRG coming Wednesday, February 20, for any major. 9:00 - 12:00. ...:..Open signups for the above companies will be February 8. First-come, First-served. Teachers College, Columbia University will be on campus Thursday, February 7, 8:30 - 9:30a.m. Theywouldl~eto talk to any Junior possibly in- terested .in a Mathematics and Science teaching career. Any interested student should sign up at the Career Development Center. FELLOWSHIPS political science,. or public and· · or international affairs.. . The fellowship is a three-month internship with a Congressional committee in Washington, D.C. For further information, call (202) 293-1713, or write to: NIAF, Graduate. Legislative Fellowship Program, 1019 19th St. NW, Washington, DC 20036. Deadline for submission: March 15, 1985. The Business and Professional Women'~ Clubs of New York State, Inc. is offering several $1,000 fellowships to female New York State residents enrolled in an ad- vanced graduate degree program at a New York State University. For additional information and an application, write to: Betty Gragg - Chairman, P.O. · Box 838, Johnson City, NY13790. The American Consulting Engineers Council (ACEC) is offering a two-year award worth $4,000 for expenses,. full tuition and fees, and up to $1,500 in thesis- research costs. The successful candidate will have a bachelor's degree in Civil Engineering or Geology and planning to pursue an a~fvi:mced degree to become an engineer in applied earth sciences. Applications and additional infonnation are available in the Financial Aid Office. Deadline: March 15, 1985. The Committee on Institutional Cooperation will award ·50 fellowships to minority groups seeking Ph.D.'s in social sciences, humanities, sciences, _ mathematics and engineering. The fellowship is for four years and includes full tuition. Application deadline: January 18, 1985. More information available at CDC. The California Senate Fellow Program is an opportunity to begin a career in public life. The ten-month fellowship consists of . work for a senator. and · educational seminars. Applications available ?.t CDC. Superior college seniors and graduate students who intend to · become consulting engineers in ==:::========= the applied earth sciences are The National Italian American Foundation (NIAF) is offering graduate fellowships to Americans of Italian descent, majoring in government, ACROSS 34 Regular 36 Competent 1 Pitcher\s miScue 37 Indefinite 5 Youngster amount 8 Blinks• colloq. 38 Before noon 12 Turk1sh 39 Bahama islands reg1ment 42 Masseur 13 Mature 46 City in Russia 14 Send forth 4 7 Veneration 15 Stupefy 49 Tardy 16 Fabulous bird 50 Path 17 Hindu garment 51 Decay 18 Saturated 52 Sea eagles 20 Preferably 53 Goals 22 Note of scale 54 River in 23 Pers1an fairy Scotland 24 Evergreen tree 55 Chair 27 Part DOWN 31 Fuss 32 Vitiate 1 Game fish 33 Ordinance 2 Singing voice eligible for the Woodward-Clyde Fellowship that will be awarded in 1985. The fellowship provides $4,000 a year living expenses for two 3 Pra1se 4 lgmte 5 Mountain lake 6 T1me gone by 7 Worn out 8 Rouse to actiOn 9 Oriental nurse 10 Weary 11 Arouse 19 Babylohian d\eity 21 Sea in Asia 23 Flower 24 Moccasin 25 Artificial language 26 Negative prefix 27 European 28 Priest's vestment 29 Hindu cymi:Jals 30 Female sheep ~1-+--1 32 Mr. Laurel 35 Facial expressions 36 Wanders aimlessly · 38 Symbol for gold 39 Tree trunk 40 Country of Aisa -:::-1-+-+.....t 41 Repair .42 Nerve network =\'+-+--+--i 43 Reveal 44 Sicilian volcano 45 Remainder 48 Sorrow - - yea1 aca< up 1 rese AI worl stuC: undt engi acc1 proi appl IDOl con Assi and 7474 - SP - - Pt pres CoU p.m Spo1 Dep \Fr Am and mer in I COV 1 cha tow T. freE will Stw Bui Tl pro, the Coll 25\ \So Nev Flul Afri COOl Ste~ intl Art: pub F con Un' A Cel cor the Thl Col of Un be! Ch, 1 stu COl Sci the . I col Mt - ( $1~ OCt 80f As thl ap Fo Pr sh re1 Pr ap Co P.1 Ch 031 (61 I

..,.. years, full tuition and academi~ fees for those years, up to $1,500 in related thesis research costs. Applicants must be seniors working toward . or graduate students who already have undergraduate degrees in civil engineering or geology from accredited university or college programs who plan to enter the applied earth sciences field. For more information, you can contac.t: Steve Church,. Assistant Director, Information and Communications, 202-346- 7474. SPEAKERS Prof. Robert L. McGrath will present a lecture at Union College Thursday, Jan. 31, at 4 p.m. in.Arts Building Room 215. Sponsored by the Arts Department, the talk is titled \From Fear to Fecundity: The American Vision of Nature\ and Will explore the develop- ment of the landscape tradition in the United States. It will cover not only painting, but changing American attitudes toward the countryside. -- The talk is open to the pUblic free of charge and a reception will follow at 5 p.m. in the Student Forum of the Arts Building. The Traditions of . Im- provisation series sponsored by the Arts Department at Union College continues Friday, Jan. 25 with a performance titled : \Sound Center: Traditional and New Music for Indian Bamboo Flute, Glass Harmonica, Saw, African Drums and Voice.\ The concert by Julfe Kabat and Steve· Gorn begins at 7'30 p.m. in the Performing Arts Center, Arts Building, and is open to the public free of charge. For further information, contact the Arts Department, Union College; 370-6172. A Mozart Birthday Celebration honoring the composer's 229th birthday, is the theme of a concert to be held Thursday, Jan. 24 at Union College. The performance, part - of the Schenectady Museum- Union College Concert Series, begins at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chap.el. Tickets are $6 ($3 for students) and are available at Community Box Offices, the Schenectady Museum, and at the door. · For further information, contact the Schenectady Museum at 382-7890 or 372-3651. HELP WANTED' GOVERNMENT JOBS. $15,000-$50,000..yr. possible. All occupations. How to find. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. R-6382. The Student Conservation Association, Inc. announces that it is accepting requests for applicatio.ns for the 1985 Park, Forest and Resource Assistants Program. Interested people should send a postcard requesting a '~1985 PFRA Program List\ and an application from the Student Conservation Association, Inc., P.O. Box 550, Dept. CPR, Charlestown, New Hampshire 03603. The telephone number is (603) 826-5206. The deadline for receipt of applications for SUMMER Park, Forest and Resource Assistants Program is March 1. The Foreign and Domestic CONCORDIENSIS, January 24,1985 I Teachers Organization needs teacher applicants in all fields from Kindergarten through College to fill over six hundred teaching vacancies both at home and abroad. Should you wish additional information about o.ur organization, you may write The National Teachers' Placement Agency,. Universal Teachers, Box 5231, Portland,. Oregon 97208. Furniture store needs strong help to do work pertaining to furniture store. Part time help available for those who can drive a van. RAS Furniture, 823 Eastern Ave. 374-7785. TUTORS NEEDED-Do YoU feel qualified enough to tutor others and earn extra $$$$$$$$$$ while doing it? If so, the AOP Tutoring Service needs you! Applications are now being accepted for ALL subject areas. For further mformation, please see: Wanda Torres, AOP Office, Bailey Hall, Room 101. $$$ Need Extra Money? For free information call Lee Ramsey collect at (615) 577-7237 after 6 p.m. Female Bartenders wanted via Vendeto Cafe-Appian Way. Call 370-4030-Gina. Student to work every Sat. & Sun. between 4-8 hrs. each day. $4;00-hr. plus mileage. General Maintenance. Location-Lo· udonville. Please contact 456- 6280. . Evening telephone sales-cash pay. For more information please call Kathy or Bill at 37 4- 1492 or 374-5372. Student typing done-Please contact 370..5222. Mt. Pleasant area. Typing done for students or Professors. Please contact 37()- 0692. Niskayuna area. CLUB-NEWS for Bishop Hoard Hubbard at 9 p.m. in tlie Dutch Hollow Pub. All.are invited to come and talk with the Bishop following his celebration of the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy at St. John the Evangelist Church. Newman Folk Group---Sunday evenings at 6:30 p.m. All singers and musicians meet with Friar Paul to prepare for the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members welcome. Prayer-Scripture Study Groups'-Monday, January 28th at 5 p,tn. with Sr. Joan in the Religious Programs Office and Wednesday, January 30 at 11:30 a.m. a new group is forming to accommodate student schedules. Newman Meeting & Social- Monday, January 28th at 8 p.m. in the 4th Floor Lounge, Car- negie. Tutorial Program-Any Union student interested in tutoring Reading. one hour a week primarily to 2nd graders of St. Jolm the Evangelist School please contact Liz Karazim 37G- 6774. \The Union College Christian Fellowship meets Mondays this term, for Bible study, at 6:30 PM in 4th Floor Lounge, Car- , negie. All are welcome.\ Winter Term Bible Study-The topic will be The Life, Work and Letters of Paul. The meetings will be at 12:30 p.m., Mondays, Carnegie 4th Floor Forum Room. Bring a bag lunch or contact Mr. Nevin for a meal plan order. CLASS/REDS FOUND: Tweed hat, pair eyeglasses in Physics class or lab. See Physics secretary, N308, S&E Center. PERSONALS. Lauren-From Grateful Dead to Ralph Lauren, it's amazing the effect roomies have on each other. You are a swell loser and look so cute in lace and rib- bons!! AKB-\Flako\ and \Mute\ won't get us down! We'll make it . . . I think! JLK Jen: Debbie: JENNIFER: sHoRtY: . STOP COVERT operation PS is now in progress STOP All is well. Plan A (project insertion) is to begin effective irrunediately. Stop - Agent SAK + STOP JASON 0, YOU STUD YOU! Why didn't you tell us!!!! Why should HOWARD PUD have ALL the bragging rights? ! . LOVE - The Boyz- JASON 0., Who is AMY K.? Love Randy P.S. It's still sunny here in Florida! Flounder, (David \Bucks\ Wagman), leave that blond hussy! I'll be much better for you. I can cook, sew and - BLEEP-like a rabbit! ! ! ! ! I love . you, please reconsider. Love, your not so secret ad- mirer JASON 0. it's a boy!! What should I do? I tQld you to follow in Howie's footsteps, but NO, \that's to disgusting for me\. AMYK. FOR SALE: VEGETABLE PATCH DOLlS!! Why buy baldies and premies when you can buy deformed dolls?! These armless and legless dolls come with their own wheelchairs, dialysis machines and oxygen tents! . We like to watch Chips with Poncherello, we don't like to do homework or Kumquats, do Page 11 you? . . . There's noone I'd rather eat Twix bars, macaroni & cheese and chocolate cup- cakes at 1:00 a.m. with than you! (Champagne's another story!) Dear Tony, Not only are you fun at parties and price ch()pper, you have the absolute best seizures!!! Love, Both of Us Snowman, Thanx for all your help with the apt. I love your fuzzy heart! -Big Mama (T.T.) S.S.W.W.S- \Ain't nobody does it better\ than Ben and the bulk man? (12 times). · -Baker To My Best Friend, Congratulations! I have faith in you to never take a drag of a cigarette again and I\ won't make a pass at you! And in May ~e'll (mo~ likely) be sort of, kmd of, not exactly like a . . . Ein, Svein, trein, sufa! BLOODY'S PARTY TONIGHT. -the stowaway Jason G. at Phi Delta-Are you practicing all of your lessons? Make sure you follow all of her advise so you can get some action. Good luck. Hey Phillippe-Are the Wrinkles out yet?? Good luck with med schools, you linguist you!! !dp Karen R.-a thousand pardons for my several indiscretions. I apologize-Jim W. C, We've had five years of friendship, football games, hanging out together, stuffing our faces, fun in the sun, good times, and special moments. Let's go for fifty more. Love,J Shut up, Bill, just shut up! H!!!!!! N~wman Retreat-January 25th-26th, an overnight retreat on «Trust\ from Friday at five until Saturday at five at St. Anthony-on-Hudson, Rensse- laer, Donation of $5 when you register with Sr. Joan. A New Year! A New You! Reception for Bishop Hub- bard-The Newman Club will host a pepsi and pizza reception -- HOW - ;J'OST To SEE. I.JH 0 S Do tJ E. \f1.l E I\ rJol\'t:wof'\k - WHf1:T'5 nilS tr-J MY 1-11\WD ( ANYBODY ~NOW? 1TS A FoU~ LtTft.g_ ~ (N<.)RD I 5TAR.ittJ~ . WITt-/ ''!<-\/ - . There's a slim new You hiding under those unwanted pounds. You can lose 10-30 lbs. This Month! Guaranteed results with safe, prov~n formula. Send only $39 {check or money order) for 4 weeks supply to: CARTER ASSOCOIATES, P .0. Box 697 Hermosa Beach, CA 90254 NOIJ Y.,EI'IEMSE.fl. !'1'.£5\1~1\N 1 'JV$J \'if.. GoOl.. -DON 'l :5HOLJ on !-low st~~{l..Ri\ you ~>~R.E-! ...-----../ ~t~ 1!:':\Jt. 1'\E-, Lfi~,Y-1. DIDtn SWitcH INto 1 'fl,O(.\<..S F'O~ :rot.k5' 1 :rust To ~rABI\11..\:.~S '(oU! ·\ ...... ll.:N~ l30!JY k.!IJO lJI f AN'l'Of\J~ AI AL-1_,.? ~ HE.'s rv~Y r<.OO !'\ t\ A\f f. - I But ::t DOIIJI f...t.AU,Y Hftll& I ovr ,_,_, 1-rl·l HIM.

Page 12 CONCOROIENSIS, January 24. 1985 FEATURES v WOMEN I KARLA HANSON C By E Both program and facility improvements are taking place in the women's residence halls. As part of the residence life program at Union, the staff of each dormitory is responsible for sponsoring a number of educational events to benefit the residents of that building. The staff of Richmond House, in conjunction with other area staff members and Area Coordinator-Residence Dire- ctor-Marguerite Sharkey, is presenting an instructional session on breast self- examination. A registered nurse from the American Cancer Society will be leading this infonnative workshop. Breast self-examination is important to every woman intereste(l in good preventative medicine. Come learn how to help recognize possible disease in its early stages. The session will be held in the Richmond lounge and Sunday, January 27th at 7 p.m., and is open to all women. Also appearing in the basement of Richmond House, is a new exercise room. The room is soon to be opened for the enjoyment of Richmond The Bloodmobile Is Coming February 13, 14 & 15 The need for Type 0 Blood is greatest but A and B are . in short supply as well Strauss Lounge 11 a.m. -4 p.m. I residents. Over the past few weeks, staff and students have been working together to complete this project. Rich- mond residents have spent the last two weekends painting the walls, while staff members have 'been orderblg carpetulg, fans, and exercise equipment. This new room will provide a social area as well as an active outlet for Richmond residents, especially during the winter months. These new improvements, in both facilities and program- ming, will benefit the women of these residence halls, but there is always room for. im- provement. If you would like to see more prograrnrning for women in the residence halls and have suggestions, contact your RA or the ''Woman Voice\ colwnn. WRUC Trivia is back ... WRUC ·Debuts By DOUG LANDON . WRUC Promotions Director· WRUC has started off the winter term ,on the right foot, with an interesting and com- plete lineup of music, news and special features. · As tradition has it, however, the biggest highlight of WIWC' s winter seasonwillonce again be TRIVIA! Yes, plan your studying around the three Sundays with tbe irresistible challenge to compete with othet residence hall floors, frater- 'nities and sororities. Begin to organize your teams now, and make sure people will .be around February 17 and 24 and March 3. ~ric; Lipman and his crew are working hard to compile the .best group of questions ever aired on WRUC Trivia. The old Trivial Pursuit game can be put away for awhile, as it's sure · to take a back seat to WRUC's fresh new questions. And don't bother to study the game; we wouldn't dream of using any of their questions! The reward? Jackie Hatfield is out ro~ding up literally hundreds of prizes to be awarded for individual an- swers, ~d the stakes for t~e winning team prizes are high as ever. All this as though the satisfaction of beating your rivals wouldn't be enough. In the weeks before, during and after Trivia, don't forget to tune in for our special events. Eric and Doug bring you \The Week In Review'' every Thursday at 6 p.m. Listen in for an informative perspective on the past week's news, featur,ing • a humorous look at Union's own happenings. Call in ahead and we'll be happy to announce the temperature in your favorite city, dedicated to you. Temps will be in Farenheit of course; we're social scientists. A new jazz albwn debuts Monday through Friday ·at 2 p.m., as we bring you \Jazz Spotlight.\ Also, the weekly album feature can be heard on Saturdays from 9 to 12 in tbe evening. · Finally this week, the station couldusea.fewmore D. J . .'s and newcasters. Contact Scott Elkind if you desire a slot on the programming schedule, and Virginia or Debbie for a newscast. Call 6151, 6154, or drop a note in campus mail addressed to your radio station, the alternative radio station, WRUC, 89.7 FM. Women Voice ·calendar of Events Friday, January 25: Traditions of lmprovisation--7:30 p.m., Arts Dept. Recital Hall. Saturday, January 26: Assertiveness Training Workshop--for more information call270-2306. Thursday, January 31: Revitalizing and Expressing Your- self--Sponsored. by the Women's Alliance of the Unitarian Church. For more information call374-4446. Visiting Lecturer-Lauded In recognition of 56 years devoted to the teaching of geology and his many con- tributions to science education, Donald B. Stone, visiting lec- turer of civil engineering at Union College, was honored at the 89th Annual Conference of the Science Teachers Association of New York State held Nov. 4-6 at the Fallsview and Ne:vele Hotels in Ellenville, N.Y. He was presented with a quartz clock mounted on wood with the inscription, \For Outstanding Contributions to Science Education.\ In light of the large numbers of sci~nce teachers leaving the profession to enter industry, · Stone was asked to address the gathering of more than 1,000 high school science teachers on the rewards of his many years of teaching. Stone is presently teach,ing - \Special Topics in Geology\ at Union and has been with Union's Civil Engineering Department for 12 years. He came to the College following eight years at Russell Sage College and 35 years at Mont Pleasant I:ligh School in Schenectady where he was chairman of the Science Department. Stone received his B.S. at Colgate and his M.S. in Geology at Union in 1942. He was elected a fellow in the State Science Association in 1960, an award given each year to honor a few science teachers who have served with distinction' as science educators. In 1976 he was elected to the Union College chapter of Sigma Xi. :~~!:~:!:::::::~:~:::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~:::::::~:~:::~=~=~=~=~=~=~:;:~:~:;:~:~:~:;:;:;:~:~:~=~=~=~=~=~:::::::::~:~!~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::~~=~ ~~ Winter Carnival Dance I ~ ~ I i :m Friday, February 1,-1985 J ,~~~ AJumni Gym ~~!! II :; '', 10:30p.m.to2:QOa.m. I .... Live music perform~d by: .·.· Ill OUT OF CONTROL I Ill Open to all students I !l~~ Semi-formal Affire Requested ~~~: I I » FREE ~ r~,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,.,,, \ . .,,.~\\\'\'<>'\''\\<>:::<!>:: - ,.. :r: n1 < ... CJ ru 0 8 5 HI n C\l .,. 0!

I.. (lJ .0 :::l L 0 u > ro 0 >- .0 0 ... 0 .r:; a. Page 12 CONCORDIENS/S, January 24, 1985 FEATURES v WOMEN I KARLA HANSON C By E Both program and facility improvements are taking place in the women's residence halls. As part of the residence life program at Union, the staff of each dormitory is responsible for sponsoring a number of educational events to benefit the residents of that building. The staff of Richmond House, HiQh Anxiety in conjunction with other area staff members and Area Coordinator-Residence Dire- ctor-Marguerite Sharkey, is presenting an instructional session on breast self- examination. A registered nurse from the American Cancer Society will be leading this informative workshop. Breast self-examination is important to every woman interested in good preventative medicine. Come learn how to help recognize possible disease in its early stages. The session will be held in the Richmond lounge and Sunday, January 27th at 7 p.m., and is open to all women. Also appearing in the basement of Riclunond House, is a new exercise room. The room is soon to be opened for the enjoyment of Richmond The Bloodmobile Is Coming February 13, 14 & 15 The need for Type 0 Blood is greatest but A and B are in short supply as well Strauss Lounge 11 a.me-4 p.m. residents. Over the past few weeks, staff and students have been working together to complete this project. Rich- mond residents have spent the last two weekends painting the walls, while staff members have been ordering carpeting, fans, and exercise equipment. This new room will provide a social area as well as an active outlet for Richmond residents, especially during the winter months. These new improvements, in both facilities and program- ming, will benefit the women of these residence halls, but there is always room for im- provement. If you would like to see more programming for women in the residence halls and have suggestions, contact your RA or the \Woman Voice\ column. WRUC Trit·ia is back ... WRUCDehuts By DOUG LANDON WRUC Promotions Director WRUC has started off the winter term on the right foot, with an interesting and com- plete lineup of music, news and special features. As tradition has it, however, the biggest highlight of WRUC's winter season will once again be TRIVIA! Yes, plan your studying around the three Sundays with the irresistible challenge to compete with other residence hall floors, frater- nities and sororities. Begin to organize your teams now, and make sure people will be around February 17 and 24 and March 3. Eric Lipman and his crew are working hard to compile the best group of questions ever aired on WRUC Trivia. The old Trivial Pursuit game can be put away for awhile, as it's sure to take a back seat to WRUC's fresh new questions. And don't bother to study the game; we wouldn't dream of using any of their questions! The reward? Jackie Hatfield is out rounding up literally hundreds of prizes to be awarded for individual an- swers, and the stakes for the winning team prizes are high as ever. All this as though the satisfaction of beating your rivals wouldn't be enough. In the weeks before, during and after Trivia, don't forget to tune in for our special events. Eric and Doug bring you \The Week In Review\ every Thursday at 6 p.m. Listen in for an informative perspective on the past week's news, featuring a humorous look at Union's own happenings. Call in ahead and we'll be happy to announce the temperature in your favorite city, dedicated to you. Temps will be in Farenheit of course; we're social scientists. A new jazz albmn debuts Monday through Friday at 2 p.m., as we bring you \Jazz Spotlight.\ Also, the weekly album feature can be heard on Saturdays from 9 to 12 in the evening. Finally this week, the station could use a few more D. J. 's and newcasters. Contact Scott Elkind if you desire a slot on the programming schedule, and Virginia or Debbie for a newscast. Call 6151, 6154, or drop a note in campus mail addressed to your radio station, the alternative radio station, WRUC, 89.7 FM. Women Voice Calendar of Events Friday, January 25: Traditions of lmprovisation--7:30 p.m., Arts Dept. Recital Hall. Saturday, January 26: Assertiveness Training Workshop·-for more information call 270-2306. Thursday, January 31: Revitalizing and Expressing Your self .. Sponsored by the Women's Alliance of the Unitarian Church. For more information call 374·4446. Visiting lecturer Lauded In recognition of 56 years devoted to the teaching of geology and his many con- tributions to science education, Donald B. Stone, visiting lec- turer of civil engineering at Union College, was honored at the 89th Annual Conference of the Science Teachers Association of New York State held Nov. 4-6 at the Fallsview and Nevele Hotels in Ellenville, N.Y. He was presented with a quartz clock mounted on wood with the inscription, \For Outstanding Contributions to Science Education.'' In light of the large numbers of science teachers leaving the profession to enter industry, Stone was asked to address the gathering of more than 1,000 high school science teachers on the rewards of his many years of teaching. Stone is presently teaching \Special TopiC's in Geology\ at Union and has been with Union's Civil Engineering Department for 12 years. He came to the College following eight years at Russell Sage College and 35 years at Mont Pleasant High School in Schenectady where he was chairman of the Science Department. Stone received his B.S. at Colgate and his M.S. in Geology at Union in 1942. He was elected a fellow in the State Science Association in 1960, an award given each year to honor a few science teachers who have served with distinction as science educators. In 1976 he was elected to the Union College chapter of Sigma Xi. r=:=·=<:=·=:=:=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=-=·=·=<·=·=·=·=·:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·=·:·:·:·:·:·=·:·=·=·=·=·:·=·:·:·=·=·:·:·:·:·:·:·=-:·:·=·=·:·:·:·:-:·:·:·:·:·=·=·:·=·=·=·=·=·=-:-:·:-:·=·=-=·=<·=·~~i IIi Winter Carnival Dance 111 ):! Friday, February 1, 1985 !~· i~~ Alumni Gym m ~ ~ 10:30 p.m. to 2:00a.m. Live music performed by: OUT OF CONTROL Open to all students ·11 Semi-formal Attire Requested 1:· s FREE ~ ~ 8 ~ m ~ X : ·: ·:.:. :· :· :·:. :· :· :·:· :-:-:· :· :· :· :· :·:· :· :· :-:·:· :· =· :~ :· :· :· =~ =· :~ :~ :· :·:. :· :· :· :·:.:.: ·: ·: ·: ·: .. : ·:·: 0:.:.: ·: ·: ·:.: ·: ·:·:' :-:0:. :.:·: ·: -:.:-: ·: ·: ·:-:·:· :· :·:·: ·:· :·:.:.: ·:·:·:.:. :· :·: ·=·:.:. :·:·:.:.: 0 :·:.:.:.:.: 0:.:.: ·:.:. :·: 0: ··:: .. L

• , 2 e t CONCORDJENSIS, January 24, 1985 Page 13 '.:!lS!UUO) O!<!!A :!M:! 0 . :1 < ti \' 0 ~ 1\\ ,.., ~ c: ... tl I'll 0 8 ::'1 ~ I'll ~ g ,.. ::r.: n1 < ... CJ fll 0 a 3 ftl n r' ,,. on VCR & Movie Rentals Com modo.re 64--$169 · 1541 Disk Dr.ive .. -$199 1702 Monitor--$219 1660 Modem--$109 .Many Software Titles! $24.95/Weekend w/4 Free Movies Local Address, I D, Reservations Suggested, Deposit Required New Titles: Tightrope, Cloak & Dagger, Purple Rain, and hundreds of others 10-9 Mon-Fri • 10-5 Sat. --- ~ .-~~- i:J.ii: Vii>cO connECtion \AhvaysOnnStep Ahead\ 123 Canal Square, Schenectady 382-3896 tl-ic Vii:>cO connectiOn tl-ic Vii>i:O. conncC&:iOil .. Your Bahamas College Week Includes: ·~ I .I v ·IU c c: 8 ~ 0 > IU :;a: .,., All are welcome to ioin Bishop . Howard Hubbard in this celebration of the ·1:30 p.m. mass at Saint John The Evangelist on Sunday, Jan. 27 A pizza and soda reception will follow at 9 p.m .. in the DUTCH HOLLOW PUB • Round-trip air transportation from your home city to Bahamas • 7 Nights accommodation in Freeport (Freeport Inn-casual club like hotel located downtown, next to El Casino and opposite to International Bazaar) or Nassau (Dolphin or Atlantis Hotel-ideally located across the street from the beach within-walking distance to everything). Price based on quad occupancy. Triple add-$50.00 Double add $100.00 • Roundtrip airport/hotel transfers • Hotel room tax • Gratuities for bellman, chamermaids and poolman • College Week activities-sports, parties, music, fun. Hotel Options 'Nassau-Add $50.00 for deluxe Sheraton British Colonial, add $60.00for deluxe Pilot House Hotel Freeport-Add $50.00 for first class Windward Palms Hotel. ·····--···················· : f~'i~G® I INrE:~OLLEGIATE I HOLIDAYS INC. I 501 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10022 212-355-4705/800-223-0694 (reservations only) Bahamas College Weeks D Jan 5-Jan 12 D Jan 12-Jan 19 0 Mar 23-Mar 30 D Jan 19-Jan 26 D Mar 30-Apr 6 0 Feb 23-Mar 02 D Apr 6-Apr 13 D Mar 02-Mar 09 0 Apr 13-Apr 20 0 Mar 09-Mar 16 0 Apr 20-Apr 2 7 Check One: D Mar 16-Mar 23 D Apr 27-May 04 D May 04-May 11 0 May 11-May 18 D May 18-.May 25 D May 25-June 01 D June 01-June 08 D June 08-June 15 D June 15-June 22 I I I I I I I I I I 0 FREEPORT 0 NASSAU Occupancy · (Sat. departures) (Sat. departures) 0 Quad 0 Triple 0 Double ·I Sounds good. I've checked the week I want to party and enclosed a $100 deposit. I NAME I . SCHOOL I ROOMMATES I I ADDRESS DEPARTURE CITY I I CIT: STATE ZIP 1 *All prices plus 15% tax and services. Price based on departures from ·J New York (for Washington, D. C./Baltimore Campus Rep/Office I & Boston add $40). PHNO. I I I I I I I I I I I Each traveler must fill out separate form. I Prices will rise $25 on January.1-Book Now. •. ---------------- --- --...- .. -;;;;; _______ . ______ iliiiioiiii_liiiiiiiii.iiiliiiiii....-R _____ .. I

as ur to 2 ~z d a il Commodore 64--$169 1541 Disk Dri ve--$199 CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1985 1702 Monitor--$219 1660 Modem--$109 Many Software Titles! $24.9 5/ Weekend w /4 Free Movies local Address, I D, Reservations Suggested, Deposit Required New Titles: Tightrope, Cloak & Dagger, Purple Rain, and hundreds of others 1 0-9 Mon-Fri • 10-5 Sat. ;:;,;r: ViilcO connc:ci:ion '':\11\'il.\'~ (hlP Stl~p .·\IH•ad'' 123 Can a I Square, Schenectady 382-3896 Your Bahamas College Week Includes: ~ IJ v IU c::: c 8 2 r.l > All are welcome Page 13 to ioin Bishop Howard Hubbard in this celebration of the 7:30 p.m. mass at Saint John The Evangelist on Sunday, Jan. 27 A pizza and soda reception will follow at 9 p.m. in the DUTCH HOLLOW PUB • Round-trip air transportation from your home city to Bahamas • 7 Nights accommodation in Freeport (Freeport Inn-casual club like hotel located downtown. next to El Casino and opposite to International Bazaar) or Nassau (Dolphin or Atlantis Hotel-ideally located across the street from the beach within walking distance to everything). Price based on quad occupancy. Triple add- $50.00 Double add $100.00 • Roundtrip airport/hotel transfers • Hotel room tax • Gratuities for bellman. chamermaids and poolman • College Week activities-sports. parties. music. fun. Hotel Options Nassau-Add $50.00 for deluxe Sheraton British Colonial, add $60.00fordeluxe Pilot House Hotel Freeport-Add $50.00 for first class Windward Palms Hotel. ··---------------·········· • ~ f!lrt~E' I HOLIDAYS INC. I 501 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10022 I I Check One: FREEPORT (Sat. departures) 212~355~4 705/ 800M223 ~0694 (reservations only) Bahamas College Weeks ... Jan 5-Jan 1 2 ... Jan 12-Jan 19 Jan 19-Jan 26 · . Feb 23-Mar 02 . ~~ Mar 02-Mar 09 : -_ Mar 09-Mar 16 : .. Mar 16-Mar 23 . NASSAU (Sat. departures) c._ Mar 23-Mar 30 : · Mar 30-Apr 6 · Apr 6-Apr 13 - Apr 13-Apr 20 Apr20-Apr27 : Apr 27-May 04 Occupancy Quad .-. May 04-.May 11 . ..:._ May 11-.May 18 _- May 18-/VIay 25 •-~ May 25-June 01 __ June 01-June 08 ~. June 08-June 15 : : June 15-June 22 Triple Double I I Sounds good. I've checked the week I want to party and enclosed a $100 deposit. I N,_A_M_E __ _ I I ROOMMATES I I ADDRESS DEPARTURE CITY I I CITY STATE ZIP PHNO. 1 *All prices plus 15% tax and services. Price based on departures from I New York (for Washington, D.C./Baltimore Campus Rep/Office I & Boston add $40). Each traveler must fill out separate form. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ·I I Prices will rise $25 on January 1-Book Now. ---------.1 -----------------

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1985 FEATURES From Nails to Rails u 0 > .c 2 0 .t:. c. By TED KEI\:JDRIS Staff Almost every Union student who has ever had to build a loft, set up a bar, or just fix something has most likely had the good .fortune to stop in at Wallace Armer Hardware. For those of you who have not yet discovered this fascinating establishment at· 225 Erie Boulevard, Schenectady, I'll try to give you an idea of what it's like inside. The best description of Wallace Armer Hardware is that offered by Mary Bee, Executive Vice President. She calls it a \living museum\. This is obvious before one even enters the building, which was erected in 1925. There is much in-store for you inside the Wallace Armer Hardware Store. Once inside, you find yourself surrounded by over one and one half million items. Almost every tool one could possibly need or want is available~ But one finds one's gaze drifts from The Road to Success By EILEEN O'CONNELL staff Campuses across the country are witnessing the spread of student run enterprises, Union is no exception. Those students interested in business careers are seeking experience while still in school; most are finding these departures valuable and rewarding. One such student is J .R. Fortunato, a senior economics major at Union. He has been handling campus delivery of the New York Times for a full term, in addition to his. course responsibilities. J.R. who would like to run his own business someday is acquiring skills that will only aid him in the future. His ability to make decisions and relate to people on a professional level have been especially enhanced. Students, he noted, are sometimes wary of another student approaching them when money is involved. He tries to put students at ease by acting as straight forward as possible. In the spirit of the en- trepeneur, J.R. has worked hard to expand circulation and provide the best service possible. His efforts paid off in the fall, Circulation rising ap- proximately 10 percent. At the beginning of a term long hours are required. Each dorm is covered to contact potential customers and a mass mailing to reach anyone who may have been missed. Students may still and are encouraged to purchase the service wl!ich delivers Monday through Sunday. Adjustments can be made in the subscription rate for those who are late in purchasing it. In the past, professors were sometimes hesitant about relying on a student for regular delivery. Sometimes papers would arrive late or not at all. J.R. who takes the job seriously has sought to dispel the per- ception of unreliability. Although the business entails getting up early every day, even Sundays, he does it. He sees a direct relation between his efforts and ·his success. A few professors now get their paper through J .R.' s service. Big Brothers The newspaper delivery service is not J.R.'s first at- tempt at small business. One summer while working full time in New York City, he sold plants near large manufacturing complexes. The experience he gained then increased his un- derstanding of people, was fun, and financially rewarding. It also gave him confidence to start his current business. The example of relatives who are in business for themselves en- couraged him also. Big Sisters Our sincere commendations go to Big Brother Terry Watkins, of the Phi Delta Theta Fraternity for being an out- standing Union College Big Brother. BB, Terry and LB, Paul Spass, age 10, have a very positive, strong, and consistent friendship. Terry and Paul have been matched since January 1984 and have shared many activities such as archery, hunting, U;C. football, bowling, and Christmas shopping. LB, Paul remarked to his mother, \it makes me feel good when my BB, Terry introduces me as his brother Paul.\ Paul's mother states, \Terry has Terry Watkins 'S5 with his little brother. helped Paul feel good about himself and has given him a special friend he can count on.\ · What makes this an ex- ceptional match is Terry's strong commitment toward his LB,. Paul. Terry and Paul exemplify what the Big Brothers-Big Sisters program at Union College is -all about. Best wishes to you both. Students wllo may want to start their own businesses can learn from J.R. 's experience. If you don't mind working harder and taking some risk do it. You will learn a great deal about yourself and your goals. The 1985 y~arbook ~ It's notjus~ for seniors! • 24 pages in full color • over 40 pages of sports • 32 pages of A Day in .the Life of Union • plus Orientation, Homecoming, Winter Car· nival, Pep Rally, Terms Abroad, Greek Life, and much, much more! Buy one today or tomorrow in the Student Activities Office for $25. After this week, the price of the book will be $30. the hardware covered walls to the Lamsen cash carrier. This antique precursor of the pnemnatic tube is very likely the last of its kind operating in the country. There is rarely a problem with this clever system, which sends money to the cashier's office. However, since it is so tmique, there is a great problem finding new cars for the system to replace the present cars, which are original. In addition to this antique there are some tools which have remained in stock over the years (The store was . established in 1890 by WEJllace along with a host of othet· rare and unusual objects, including htmdreds of horseshoes. The establishment is being looked into as a potential historical site. Next door to the hardware store is the Wallace Armf;'!r Home Center at 227 Erie Boulevard. The expansion was made about two years ago. When you enter the store you can't miss seeing Clarence W. Bodenstab, Chairman of the Board. Mr. Bodenstab, who· has been with the store for over si~y years, still comes in to work at 7:30 in the morning, 6 clays a week. His son, Robe.rt B~denst~;~b, Vice President, has The walls are jam-packed with everything from nails to plumbing equipment at Wallace Armer. Armer). These tools, which for one reason or another ·were never sold, will probably be on display in the near future. The plans are still in the ·mscussioii stage. If all goes well, one will be able to see chicken brooders, cream separators, and all kinds of wooden tools and hand tools, been working since the age of seven. The Wallace Armer Hardware Store is worth seeing, even if one does not need any hardware.· But if you do need something, don't forget to ask for a student courtesy discount card. FRESHMEN Vote for Class of '88 Representatives TOMORROW Friday, Jan. 251 ·car~egie Hall 9 a .. m.-4 p.m. Vote Let Your Voice Be Heard! ~ Is it true you can buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. Government? Get the facts today! Call 1-312-742· 1142 ext. 4269. u 0 >- .a .g 0 .r:: 0. ( WOR JAPA PACI EXC1 FREJ More -no the i now peopl . eve 1 . ty ... c ing, seen ting. refini gove1 man~ $5,00( To port oven have ed a tory ment of \' Em~ covel (1) Emp dozer paniE west what cruis s u c I r~st: bart€ few. seve: plica may comr work (2) tions pers Int! 131 Cen Pie Dir day you enc Dir NA AD Cl1

Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS, January 24, 1985 FEATURES 2 From Nails to Rails By TED KENDRIS Staff u 0 >- .0 0 - 0 r. c. \<i\} \\\' r~,. il:!* .4$:!l'j!:$~ ,, .... , ! Almost every Union student who has ever had to build a loft, set up a bar, or just fix something has most likely had the good fortune to stop in at Wallace Armer Hardware. For those of you who have not yet discovered this fascinating establishment at 225 Erie Boulevard, Schenectady, I'll try to give you an idea of what it's like inside. The best description of Wallace Armer Hardware is that offered by Mary Bee. Executive Vice President. She calls it a \living museum\. This is obvious before one even enters the building, which was erected in 1925. There is much in·store for you inside the Wallace Armer Hardware Store. Once inside, you find yourself surrounded bv over one and one half million items. Almost every tool une could possibly need or want is available. But one finds one's gaze drifts from The Road to Success By EILEEN O'CONNELL Staff Campuses across the country are witnessing the spread of student run enterprises. Union is no exception. Those students interested in business careers are seeking experience while still in school: most are finding these departures valuable and rewarding. One such student is J .R. Fortunato, a senior economics major at Union. He has been handling campus delivery of the New York Times for a full term, in addition to his course responsibilities. J.R. who would like to run his own business someday is acquiring skills that will only aid him in the future. His ability to make decisions and relate to people on a professional level have been especially enhanced. Students. he noted, are sometimes wary of another student approaching them when money is involved. He tries to put students at ease by acting as straight forward as possible. In the spirit of the en- trepeneur. J.R. has worked hard to expand circulation and provide the best service possible. His efforts paid off in the fall. circulation rising ap- proximately 10 percent. At the beginning of a term long hours are required. Each dorm is covered to contact potential customers and a mass mailing to reach anyone who may have been missed. Students may still and are encouraged to purchase the service which delivers Monday through Sunday. Adjustments can be made in the subscription rate for those who are late in purchasing it. In the past, professors were sometimes hesitant about relying on a student for regular delivery. Sometimes papers would arrive late or not at all. J.R. who takes the job seriously has sought to dispel the per- ception of unreliability. Although the business entails getting up early every day, even Sundays, he does it. He sees a direct relation between his efforts and his success. A few professors now get their paper through .J.R. 's service. Big Brothers The newspaper delivery service is not J.R. 's first at- tempt at small business. One swnmer while working full time in ~ew York City. he sold plants near large manufacturing complexes. The experience he gained then increased his un- derstanding of people. was fun, and financially rewarding. It alsu gave him confidence to start his current business. The example of relatives who are in business for themselves en- couraged him also. Big Sisters Our sincere commendations go to Big Brother Terry Watkins, of the Phi Delta Theta Fraternity for being an out- standing Union College Big Brother. BB. Terrv and LB. Paul Spass, age ·10. have a very positive, strong, and consistent friendship. Terry and Paul have been matched since January 1984 and have shared many activities such as archery, hunting, U.C. football, bowling, and Christmas shopping. LB, Paul remarked to his mother, \it makes me feel good when my BB, Terry introduces me as his brother Paul.\ Paul's mother states, \Terry has Terry Watkins '85 with his little brother. helped Paul feel good about himself and has given him a special friend he can count on.\ What makes this an ex- ceptional match is Terry's strong conunitment toward his LB. Paul. Terry and Paul exemplify what the Btg Brothers-Big Sisters program at Union College is all about. Best wishes to you both. Students who may want to start their own businesses can learn from J.R. 's experience. If yuu don't mmd working harder and taking some risk do it. You will learn a great deal about yourself and your goals. The 1985 yearbook It's llOt just for seniors! e 24 pages in full color • over 40 pages of sports e 32 pages of A Day in the Life of Union • plus Orientation, Homecoming, Winter Car- nival, Pep Rally, Terms Abroad, Greek Life, and much, much more! Buy one today or tomorrow in the Student Activities Office for $25. After this week, ihe price of the book will be $30. the hardware covered walls to the Lamsen cash carrier. This antique precursor of the pneumatic tube is very likely the last of its kind operating in the country. There is rarely a problem with this clever system, which sends money to the cashier's office. However, since it is so Unique, there is a great problem finding new cars for the system to replace the present cars, which are original. In addition to this antique there are some tools which have remained in stock over the years (The store was established in 1890 by Wallace along with a host of other rare and unusual objects, including hundreds of horseshoes. The establishment is being looked into as a potential historical site. Next door to the hardware store is the Wallace Armer Home Center at 227 Erie Boulevard. The expansion was made about two years ago. When you enter the store you can't miss seeing Clarence W. Bodenstab, Chairman of the Board. Mr. Bodenstab, who has been with the store for over sixty years, still comes in to work at 7:30 in the morning, 6 days a week. His son, Robert Bodenstab, Vice President, has .. :,. u The walls are jam packed with everything from nails to plumbing equipment at Wallace Armer. Armer l. 'These tools, which for one reason or another were never sold, will probably be on display in the near future. The plans are still in the discussion stage. If all goes well, one w1ll be able to see chicken brooders, cream separators, and all kinds of wooden tools and hand tools, been working since the age of seven. The Wallace Armer Hardware Store is worth seeing. even if one does not need any hardware. But if you do need something, don't forget to ask for a student courtesy discount card. FRESHMEN Vote for Class of '88 Representatives TOMORROW Friday, Jan. 25! Carnegie Hall 9 a.m ... 4 p.m. Vote Let Your Voice Be Heard! Is it true you can buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. Government? Get the facts today! Call 1 .. 312-742 .. 1142 ext. 4269 .. 0 -.. .c c 0 c. ~ \\'OR .!-\ p p I' ACl EX II f.'I\F:: \Ill' I' - illl •he ; '10\\ ;Jl'Op] \ I' l . \ (' I H .. I'( !'I ~~ ~ ····tIn ..:1)\f'' i ~i : · n ~ I ' Yl II)( ' I '\ :) tl ; t I\ f' r ~ ·: \t \ {' ··d ~· · 11ry :n Pn t If \I Em~ 'I\ ('] I ' Emp d!Jll'l pani( \\ p ~ t ,\ h;; I I ,. rur:. , 11 c I I • (' ..... t 1 1 :t l'll I P\\ \(' \ p piHa •] .I! <tlll! .1 orh r :) ' j 111~ P ,~ r ~ I P:t~ I Dir I eLi~ I I yn11 i enr l Dir I I \:\ AD I CI1 i ~ 1~-

uding being ~ntial the was you ~e W. the over to 6 has bing ~e of mer ~ing, any ask ount u 0 >- ..0 13 .s::: 0. CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1985 Page 15 One Week from Saturday Phi Delta's 8th A·nnual TACO and TEQUILA Party Sat.,· February 2nd After the·. Hockey Game OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT • WORLD-SIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEN AND WOMEN! · JAPAN · EUROPE - AFRICA - AUSTRALIA - THE SOUTH . PACIFIC- SOUTH AMERICA- THE FAR EAST . . EXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGHER SALARIES AND WAGES! FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS! More than 300,000 Americans - not including members of the armed services - are now living overseas. These people are engaged in neatly everypossible activi- ty ... construction, engineer- ing, sales, transportation, 'iecn:tarial work, accoun- ting. manufacturing, oil refining, teaching, nursing, government, etc.-etc. And many are e'arning $2,000 to $.'5,000 per month ... or more! To allow you the op- portunity to apply for overseas employment, we have researched and compil- ed a new and exciting direc- tory on overseas employ- ment. Here is just a sample of wh~t our International Employment Directory covers .• (1). Our International Employment Directory lists dozens of cruise ship com- panies, both on the east and west coast. You will be told what type of positions the cruise ship companies hire, such as deck hands, r~staurant help, cooks, barte-nders, just to name a few. You will also receive several Employment Ap- plication Forms that you may send directly to the companies you would like to work for. (2). Firms and organiza- tions employing all types of personnel in Australia, .Japan, Africa, The South Pacific, The Far East, South America ... nearly every part of the free world! {3). Companies and Government agencies employing personnel in near- ly every occupation, from the unskilled laborer to the college trained professional man or woman. (4). Firms and organiza- tions engaged in foreign con- struction projects, manufac- · turing, mining, oil refining. engineeriry.g, sales, services, teaching, etc., etc. (5). How and where to ap- ply for overseas Government jobs. (6!. Information about summer jobs. (7). You will receive our Employment Opportunity Digest. .. jam-packed with in- formation about current job opportunities. Special sec~ tions features news of overseas construction pro- jects, executive positions and teaching opportunities. 90DayMoney Back Guarantee Our International Employ- ment Directory is s·ent to you with this guarantee. If for any reason you do not obtain overseas .employment or you are not satisfied with the job offers ... simply return our Directory within 90 days and we'll refund your money pro- mptly ... no questions asked. ORDER FORM International Employment Directory 131 Elm a Dr. Dept. T21 Centralia, W A 98531 Please send me a copy of your International Employment Directory. I understand tha(I may use this information for 90 days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return your Directory for an imm.ediate refund. On that basis I'm enclosing $20.00 cash .... check .... or money order .... for your Directory. NAME------·-- please print ADDRESS ___ _ ___ APT# CITY ________ STATE __________ ZIP International Employment Directory 1984 Union Institute of Administration and Management Invites you to attend the Winter Term's Colloquiums Today: Aidan Kirwan, Vice Counsul of Ireland: \Economic and Industrial Development in Ireland\ January 31: Marvin Zepf,-5mall Bu:tiness Administration: \I'm from the Government and I am here to help you.'' February 7: Michael Von Stumm, Executive Vice Presiden,t, Nordstern Ser- vices lnternatiomal :'\Economics of Fine Arts Insurance .. \ February 14 (or 21): ( date and topic to be armmmced) Stanley Peschel, Chief ExectJtive Officer, Hipo.tronics, Inc, February 28: Harriet Norris, District Manager--Advertising--New York Telephone: \The Role of Research in the ·Advertising Development Process.\ March 7: William E. Schirmer, President/Chief Officer, Ellis Hospital: \Contract Management of Hospitals.\ The Colloquiums are ·held on Thursdays from 3:45 .. 5:00. p.m. in Bailey Hall, Room 312 Dutchmen's Night For a change of pace why not try our Dutchmen's Night. Saturdays at 5, 6, or 7 for your dining pleasure. l punch on your meal card~ Sign up at the Pizza Pub Mon.-Thurs, 1:30-11 p.m. Also open to the campus community only • for $9 per person for a complete dinner including either Prime Rib, Steak, Shrimp of Chicken

rare uding being ~ntial the was you ~e W. the has over to 6 , has v 0 bing of mer ~ing. any ask ount c 0 c. ( 'O.V( 'ORD/F,'VSJ.r.,·, Januarr U. 1985 Pagt• 15 One Week from Saturday Phi Del·ta' s 8th Annu.al TACO and TEQUILA Party Sat., Februa·ry 2n:d After the Hockey Game OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT WORLD-SIDE OPPORTl'!'JITJES FOR ~E!'\ :\\'D WO:\tE;-..;' 1.\P:'I.;-..: El'ROPE - AFRIC.\ - \t'STlL\Ll:\ - THE SOCTH I' ACIFIC- SOCTH A :\1 ERIC A -THE F :\ R I:: AST. EXrF.LLE!'\T BE~EFIT::;. HICHER SALAHIES A\D \\'ACES: FIH~E TRA\'SPORTATIO\': CE:--.EROl'S \'AC:\TIO!'\~: \lo·p than ~00.000 AmerH·ans - not including members of 'hP armed servie~:s - ar~: ·wv. living ovt>rsras. Thrsp ;JpoplP are rng,,g~:d in nl·arly 1 t' r ~ p o !'> ' i n 1 <.' a c t 1 \. i · 'I l'lltlSI!'Lll'ti<•O. l'nl.!Inl'PI'- 11L. -.all'S. transportatllln. I'( !'(•! 'Jfl tl \\()fk. 3('('(1lJ0 !:<.: rn:t:I:f;t('\Ul'l:ll.!. nil .Japan Africa. Thl· South l'anfiC'. Thl' Far East. South Am<'rica .. nearly PVPry part of tht· h't> world' ' 1 , ( · o m p a n 1 l' s ~~ n d •· .. t mm ~. tp;,c hing. nurs1n g. ..:\'\rnnwnt Pt<·.-etc' :\nd I :::.r1~· ;m,• carnmt! S2.1HI!lto Is·, IIIII PI' I ;li•·nth .or mort• I l I \ .t i i c ' ,, y o u t h 1 • o p - (, '1 , t r· n rn P n 1 a g v n t· 1 ,. ~ Pmploymg personnel 111 tH'ar ly ('\'Pry ocC'upatwn. from tht• un~k1lil'd lahorpr 1,1 th~· ,.,,iit':..:t· t:·ained proft·~~lon<t: man or \\oman. 'l · F1rms ~md (lr~;tnl'la­ tir•n~ t'!l'-!a~cd in fpr<·I...:n r·on ~tru ct1nn proif•<·ts. m :tnufar- :arln~. mmm;.; o1l l'dillll1!-: !·ngrnPt·rin;.;. '>alPs. :-.l:'n l('l':-. lp;t< hint.;. l'IC . l'll' ;,, • ; t u n 11 \' t (l <t p p I ~· f n r •\ l·r..,P:J~ <·m pl(lymcnt. '' f' ·:·,q· rl's!':trl'hl'd and ('omptl- , · d ;, n t • 11 :t n d t' x e it 1 n 1.! clt r l' (' - ·~~ry on !1\Pr:-.t·as employ :nPnt. Herl' 1s ]ust a sample ,f \hat our International Employment Directory • 11 P r\ ·: • our International I Employment Directory 1ist ~ r!Dll'ns oi rruisr ship com- panil'~. buth on the Past and \P~t coast. You \.'>Ill bl' told .1 h~;t \I pc of posl\ions tht· I t'f\11:--t- 'hip compani(•s hire. 1 , 11 r· h :t ·.; ct P t k h :1 n d s . I · !''-' ;, ur:• nt hrl p c·nok\ 1 J<tl'll'llOPrs. JUst to name a 't'\1 Y:1u \\ill also rt'<'t'l\l' '{'\ na! Ern ploymPnt :\p· l pi 1 < at 1 on Form' t h <t t y 011 'Lt~ '-'t·r.d dtnTtl~ to th(' <~rllp<tnu·-.. \till '.\ould llkl' to ·'(Irk f (If · :' · !-'trm~ <tnd orL:anlza ••n' l rnplo1in~ :dl typP~ of \ 1 • r \ o n n P I i n :\ 11 .., t r d !1 a . .) Ilm1 :tnd \~ hl'rt· to ap- ply f(lr 0\'t'l'St.';IS (;!1\'t'I'TlnH•Ot )lib~ .,; InfornLttion ahout ~urn nwr Jobs .--;,You will n·c<·l\t' out Em ploymPnt Oppe~rt un 1t ~ D1~est. .J;,;n-packed \~ 1th In· formatiOn about ('urrent Joh opportunitiPs. SpPclal spc·- tions ft>atlll'!'S news ot ll\P!'<.,Pas ,·tm\trtll'litHl pro- :t·•·t \· t'\1-'('Ull\ t• po~o,it ion~ :111d tl':t<·hing opportun!lics 90Day Money Back Guarantee tlu; International Employ- ment Directory 1s '-t·nt to you ·.11'h ·~tlo- ~uarantPt' If for <•llY reason you do not obtain t•'.erwa' Pmph•yml·nt or ~ou ;trl' not s;tli<.,fil'd w1th the .Joh (lff('r~ simply rPturn nur Directory Within 90 days and \\l'·n rf'filnd your mnnn pro- mpt i~ no qut·stlon~ :t \k!·d. ! ! 1· OHDEH FOH.:\1 !.': •. !' lntt-rrLdlon;tl Emp!oyml'nt Dm·(·tury I I : \: r: lm :1 Il r lh· p t T 21 r ,.,., r.tiJ;, \\ .·\ ~1/Fl:ll p:,. '\ '-1 qd 1~11 t I PJl~ nf ~ .. :n International Employment Directory. lundPr'-Ltnd thaf lm:•.\ tt . .., •. 1 hh 1nform:d1on lor !lit day~ <tnd tf I :1:11 not s:t11sfil'd \\ 1th thl' n·,ult:-.. I m:ly n·turn ynur DlrNtory fnr an imnH·dl:t If· rt·innct 1 ln th;il hasJ<., I'm t>nt losm~ $:!11 110 r·:1sh Directory. :\DDRESS ;-' ., P' ' :\J'Tn STATE lnternatwnal Employmt-m Directory 198·t Zll' Union Institute of Administration and Management Invites you to attend the Winter Term's Colloquiums Today: Aidan Kirwan. Vice Counsul of Ireland: \Economic and Industrial Development in Ireland\ January 31: Marvin ZepL Small Business Administration: \I'm from the Government and I am here to help you.\ February 7: Michael Von Stumm, Executive Vice President. Nordstern Ser vices International: \Economics ofF ine Arts Insurance\ February 14 (or 21): I date and topoc to be announced) Stanley Peschel, Ch•ef Executtve Off•cer. Htpotron•cs. Inc, February 28: Harrtet Noms. Dtstrtcl Manager Advertis•ng New York Telephone \The Role of Research 1n the Advertising Development Pr xess\ March 7: W•ll•am E Schirmer, President/Chief Offtcer. Eilts Hospital \Contract Management of Hosptlals · The Colloquiums are held on Thursdays from 3:45-5:00 pam .. in Bailey Hall, Room 31 2 Dutch Hollow Rock-N-Roll Pizza Proudly Presents Our Newest Product TACOS!! ~ ~ ~~~ ~ ....... ~ ~~ e5 This weekus introductory spe~o~lg Buy one Taco for 15¢ and get another Taco Free Open 1:30-11 :30 Sun., Mon., Wed., Thurs. 1:30-1:00 a.m. Tues., Fri., Sat. Stop by and see what's cookin 9 Free Delivery on orders of $3.75 or more The Rock-N .. Roll Pizza Pub The Alternative fast Food Experience <: ·, :·::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:- :·: -:.:-:-:-:-:.:-:-:-:.:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:.:-:-:-:-: -:-:-:-:-:·:·: ·:·:.: ·:·:·:· :·: ·: Dutchmen's lfor a change (~f jJ(J]Ce ~rhy not try ou!i Dutchmen\· 1'V'ight~ Satu!ldays {Jf 5? 6'1 or 7 .lor your dining pleas urea 1 pPJnch on your mef.il C€!1rd. Si~n up at ~he Plum Pub &lAo~.-1r~urs, 1:30-11 p.m. Also open to the campus community only for $9 per person for a complete dinner including either Prime Rib, Stea:c Shrimp of Chicken ! I

Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS, January 24, 1985 THE ARTS Cabaret's Back! By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor-in-Chief For those of you who have been wondering what ever happened to Cabaret, stop wondering because it is back. For those of you who do not know what Cabaret is,. then you are in for a real treat. Begin- ning tonight, January 24, Cabaret will return from a rather long hiatus. With shows at 9 and 11 p.m. each Thursday night, Cabaret will once again entertain the student population with its comedy, music and oftentimes bizzare acts. going to be the same,\ said Saltzman. Every Thursday night there will be two shows, one at 9 and the other at 11 p.m. Tickets will be available at the Student Activities Box Office for $1.50 per person. The menu will include red and white wine, beer, and nonalcoholic punch (the 19-year-old drinking age will still apply). Cheese and crackers, and chips will also be provided although the ever tossable pretzels will not. A life-siz~ flourescent Michael Jackson puppet performed his immortal hit ''Bil'ly Jean\ as the Famous People Players played Proctor's Theatre·Jast Fr·iday night. Cabaret evolved from Arts Department Professor Barry Smith's advanced directing class, and had its opening night on· May 16, 1974. The following year, Cabaret acquired student activity status and moved out of what is now the eampus mailroom into the Cabaret room across the halL The group proved successful with students in the roles of performer, audience, and club organizer. The first show, tonight, will include students Scott Remillard and Wendy Richards while Luke Fannon will act as MC. On July 31, Bob Hartman, Luke Fannon, andMC Bob Van Voris are scheduled. Beyond the latter date, talent is still being sought and scheduled. Magical Players Perform Saltzman and Klein are considering various Cabaret theme nights such as faculty night, and flool' or dorm nights. They are also fnterested in ~n occasional novelty act· beyond that of the traditional singer and musician. By JODI ISRAEL and LINDA RAFFAELE Last Friday· night Schenec- tady was treated to something totally unique in the field of modern entertainment as the Famous People Players brought their magical stage show to Proctor's Theatre. The Players originated in Canada under the direction of Diane Dupuy in 1974. They have since performed their magic across Canada and the U.S., including a 5-week engagement at Radio City Music Hall, and in the People's Republic of China. The Players were also the subject of a CBS-Movie-of-the-Week en- titled \Special People\ which aired in the fall of 1984. Most noteworthy about the Company is its dedication to the integration of the develop- mentally handicapped; ten of the thirteen perfonners are mentally retarded. The Com- pany's original goal, toward which it continues to strive, is to develop the capabilities of the handicapped to show that given the right challenge they can lead satisfying, productive lives. The Famous People Players specialize in \Black Light\ theatre. This technique involves moving flourescent puppets and props around the stage under the illumination of flourescent light. The performers dress in black so as to be invisible to the audience. 'lbe final effect is that the props look like they are floating through the air on their own initiative. It is difficult to put the magical quality of this production into words. It truly must be seen to be believet:l. The Master of Ceremonies for the evening, the Flourescent Invisible Man, introduced via actions, not words, many of the eleven pieces that the troupe performed. The music ranged from \That's Entertainment\ to \Send in the Clowns\ to \Scheherazade.\ The Company used inventive props such as umbrellas, hoops, rnoraccas, balloons, and flags to add to the feel of the pieces. In addition, some famous faces were seen in the form of life-size flourescent puppets. First we met Liberace, candlabra, rings and all. Liberace was the central puppet of the original repetoire. Kenny Rogers graced the scene with a rendition of \The Gambler,\ and Elvis Presley also per- formed. However, this mirage of famous faces could not have been complete without Mtchael Jackson. Much of the delight of the children in the audience, a pink-sequined Jackson per- formed his immortal hit, \Billie Jean.\ The most original piece performed was entitled \A Take-off on a Take~off.\ Incorporating the themes from \Superman \Star Wars,\ \Star Trek,\ and other in- •••••••••••••••••••• , • • : All Interested in : • working on this year's • • • : FRESHMAN : • • : RECORD : • • • please sign up in • : the Student Affairs : • Office (x6061) • • • : We need people for ads, photo, : • layout, etc. • • • • SJGNUPNOW! • • • •••••••••••••••••••• tergalactic favorites, this piece featured the Starship Enter- prise, R2D2 and C3PO, Pacman in action, and Superman himself. . \Music ·of 007'' was another interesting piece. The music of many James Bond m9vies, including \The Spy Who Loved Me\ and \For Your Eyes Only\ provided the background for many James Bond antics. A faceless James Bond demon- strated his talents against numerous villains. The Company's final piece, performed to the music of \Scheherazade told a story from the Arabian Nights. This piece, in addition to being the longest, also used the most elaborate props. To convey the \Arabian\ nights, props such as huge columns, a replica of Tutankamen's mask that reached the ceiling, and lots of colored scarves and clothing were used. The Famous People Players are worth seeing. The magic that the show radiates has to be experienced. The Players have perfected their craft as an art. They are an inspiration not only to the mentally handicapped, but to all people. The audience's reaction when the Players came out to take their final bows sums it all up very well: a standing ovation. In the last year or two, however, Cabaret has not en- joyed much campus par- ticipation in any of the aforementioned roles. The group has not run as a weekly event since the 1982-83 academic year. The following year, there was a large tur- nover in Cabaret personnel; the successors to the managerial personnel were ill informed about Cabaret operations. \We never really got it back on its feet,\ said junior Deborah Saltzman, one of Cabaret's leaders. \It's an organization that needs to be run by a committee,\ added Saltzman, but for the past two years it has been organized by only two students. Coupled with the campus community's \lack of interest in participating\ in all aspects of Cabaret, the club became unofficially inactive for a time. But Cabaret recently reorganized. Along with Deborah Saltzman and junior Diane Klein (last year's Cabaret chairmen), senior Luke Fannon, junior David Maranville, and junior Susan Bernstein will be managing all Cabaret operations. As for Cabaret's format, \It's \Cabaret used to be a big part of the social life on campus,\ said Saltzman. The club offers an alternative to a night at the Pub or Skeller. Cabaret is a place for students and even faculty to perform for their peers in a relaxed atmosphere. The club still needs students, however, to help out in organizing, performing !or, and running Cabaret. An article in the October 9, 1974 edition of Concordiensis made a rather humorous yet accurate plea for assistance: \People are needed to wait on tables (unicycle riders needed). People are needed to work in the kitchen (organic lab experience not necessary) .. People are needed to heip with maintenance. (prerequisite: Modern American Pushbrooms). People are needed to assist in the auditions (on both sides of the microphone).\ So if one is interested in performing, contact Luke Fannon · at 382- 8673. For any other infonnation, call Deborah Saltzman or Diane Klein at X6475. Also look in Concordiensis or watch the Cabaret case, in front of the Cabaret room in Carnegie Hall, each week for performance information. VIA VENETO CAFE A new bar at the Appian Way Invites You To UNION COLLEGE NIGHT Tonight from 9-2 a.m. Specials Include *.mixed drinks-•$1.00 * individual, homemade Pizzas w/unique toppings--50(: *and more! 1841 VanVranken ---- - -- D Jul will Cent' Musi Glas: Orull Janu Unio: Thl may teres from of rn dudE trad playE with moni to get temi musi harrr Fir skepl Kab~ a ceo apph nativ seve1 her 1 Edge Line1 fered exec1 recor one o appe: A supe WOn( traor Furtl fered \WhE my. Wind was 1 sped score Kal perfo1 origir from gard1 corpo E On Seco Dinn Afte1 COml unde And~ even well men. En Bud! audi• \Th1 perf< his f Th - -

I • said p.m. at the menu wine, punch ~ age ~ and lsobe ever , will On Luke Voris the being are baret in ~n inger ~part pus,\ the is a even their in , and ~le in of a for ~eded are chen not eded in ~s of is 382- tion, in the the CONCORDIENSIS, January 24, 1985 Page 17 Duet to Perform By EMILY LOOSE Staff Julie Kabat and Steve Gorn will present a concert, Sound Center: Traditional and New Music for Indian Bamboo Flute, Glass Harmonica, Saw, African Drums, and Voice, tomorrow, January 25, at 7:30 p.m. in the Union Performing Arts Center. The title of this performance may immediately either in- terest people in or repel them from this concert. The mixture of music and instruments in- cluded surely seems strange; traditional and new music played together, and played with a saw and a glass har- monica. What holds this concert together?, what, you may be tempted to ask, makes it musical, and what is a glass harmonica? as the African drwn, a water drum, and the glass harmonica or harmonium, an arrangement of glass goblets filled to various levels with water and rubbed to produce a desired pitch. To quote from an article in the New York Times, \The tones ... sounded something like pleasant crosses between those of organ pipes and those produced by some sort of electronic device.\ Kabat's pieces often also incorporate modern poetry such as works by Lylan Thomas and Wallace Stevens. Included in the per- formance tomorrow night will be settings of poems by Robert Bly. . THE_ ARTS First off, to reassure the skeptical, the performers, Julie Kabat and Steve Gorn, are accomplished and much- applauded musicians. Kabat, a native of Albany, has produced several recordings including her 1984 album Kabat On The Edge, on the Leonarda label. Liner notes for that album of- fered by John Hammond, an executive producer for CBS records, read: \Julie Kabat is · one of those unique artists who appear once in every decade ... A completely original, superlative singer (with wonderful pitch) and ex- traordinary instrumentalist.\ Further praise of Kabat is of- fered by composer John Cage, \When I heard Julie Kabat sing my Aria and The Wonderful Window Of Eighteen Spring, I was delighted. She gave a very special life to both of these scores.'' Steve Gorn, a master of the classical Indian bansuri flute and accomplished in the traditions of western jazz, conducts workshops and par- ticipated often. in concerts in New York City, where he resides, Playing saxaphone as well as Indian flutes, Gorn concerns himself with im- provisational blending of · eastern, traditions with western improvisation. To excerpt from a review in the Village Voice, \I was particularly impressed with Gorn . . . the bansuri flute amounts to little more than a piece of bamboo with a mouth hole and seven finger holes, but it is all Gorn needs to produce kinky chromatic phrases with great speed and flawless pitch control.\ Gammy Grant (left), Kimberly Harris (center) and Charonne Cox (right) rehearsing \Honeysuckle Rose\ one of the hit songs from the ce·lebrated Broadway musical \AIN'T \MISBEHAVIN\'. The n.ational tour of this Tony Award Winning show played the Nott last Thursday night. Musical Excels at Nott Kabat not only sings in her performances but also plays her original compositions ranging from chamber music to avant- garde theatrical music, in- corporation instruments such The inlprovisational blending of these two performer's musical concerts and styles promises to be strange cer- tainly, but strange because innovative, strange because unique, and strange not because it strives to be absurd, but strang~ because it stretches the conventional into the avant- garde. This performance will surely be an experience not only in the new but also an en- chantment of theatrical, har- monious, beautiful music. By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Staff The social committee has been taking concentrated steps lately to liven up Winter Term on campus. One of their most ambitious efforts on this behalf is an attempt to bring one Broadway musical to the college each year. Last year, Daedalus Productions, based in New York City, presented The Fantasticks, and last Thursday that troupe returned to the Nott Memorial with their latest production, Fats Waller's Musical Show, Ain't Misbehavin'. Ain't Misbebavin', which was EntertainmentTonite · By CATHY MARKES Staff On Saturday January 19, the Second Annual Freshman Dinner was held at Hale House. After the dinner, a variety show composed of student acts got underway at Memorial Chapel. Andy George planned the evening of entertainment as well as the dinner for the fresh- men: Emcee for the night was Ken Budka, who amazed the audience with his rendition of \The Masochism Tango\ performed in its entirety with his fly unzipped. The Union College Jazz Band led by Craig Fowler followed Budka, performing several upbeat nwnbers. The superb acoustics in the chapel com- plimented their brass big band sound. Solos performEld on flute and trwnpet were also executed well. · Next, Tom Walsh and James Heinegg displayed. their mix of huggling and humor. Each juggled separately, then the two combined their efforts. First juggling beanbags, then pins, their talent was well received by the audience. Following Tom and James were the Court Gestures, an improvisational comedy group. They started off their act with a hilarious attempt (which worked!) to get everyone seated in the back to move to the front. Marcy Wilder, Scott Bloom, Anna Tucker, Craig Shalmi, Bill Carey, and Bill Martuscello then proceeded to use their \freeze\ technique to create upbeat humor in split- second situations. Ken Budka then took over to introduce the Dutch Pipers, who performed a variety of bar- bershop-style selections. They finished off the night with their version of the Alma Mater, joined by many in the audience. An entertaining evening is what it all amounted to-thanks to aJJ who planned it! sponsored by the Social Com- mittee, the Dance Club, and Mountebanks, is a joyous celebration of 1930's and 40's style jazz and blues. Set in a Harlem nightclub, this Tony- award-winning musical revolves around five main chal;'acters, who alternately portray the performers at the club as well as its patrons. The \organizers\ of this musical (no writers are credited since there is virtually no dialouge, except for that contained in the songs) have wisely kept the storyline to a minimum-if I said that there were three women vying for the charms of two men you could probably guess the rest-and elevated the singing and dancing to a maximum. As a .consequence, Ain't Misbehavin' is a non-stop romp through a classic American era, with hot jazz, bittersweet ballads,, and soul- scorching torch songs all held together under the aegis of Fats Waller (or at least his music). Waller is portrayed here by Ronald Metcalf, fresh from a three month run of the show in lllinois. What makes Ain't Misbehavin' such a delight is the combination of heartfelt singing, inspired dancing, first- rate material, an engaging, if slight, storyline, and the warm interaction of its main characters. The Daedalus company was superb in recapturing the excitement of the era this musical celebrates. The actors had. such a binding chemistry and worked so well together that it was hard to believe it was tbeir first time on stage with this production (though two of the stars have toured with this musical before )-the performance was free of the uncertainity _ and nervousness that plagues many 0pening-night presentations. At their worst, the performances were competent and at their best (as in \Honeysuckle Rose\ \The Joint is Jwnpin'\ \Your Feet's Too Big\. and about a dozen or so others of the twenty-plus songs here), they were so dynamic that the entire audience was captivated. The troupe took full advantage of the intimate atmosphere of the Nott theater, often singing directly to members of the audience, shaking their hands, and inviting them to sing along. The whole cast, Kevin Neil Cheatham, Charonne Cox, LeLand Gantt, Gammy Grant, and Kimberly Harris were all terrific (with Gantt, Cheatham, and Harris particular stan- douts), as was the small jazz trio accompanying them, which featured Metcalf on piano. All of the actors are seasoned per- formers with Broadway, film, and television roles to their credit, and each seems destined for greater glories. Ain't Misbehavin' is one of three musicals Daedalus Productions will be touring this season; the other two of which are They're Playing Our Song, and Spell No. 7. Here's hoping they include Union on their Iist of stops for those productions as well. ~~~~~··~··~·········~··· Phone: 393-54_ 40/39~-544. 1 Hours:_sun-T~u 11:30-10:00 I · ~INL'E'R it\. S ializ• • C t Fn-Sat 11.30-11 :00 I r pee e m 38 ODese, Closed Mondays Szecbuan & _Hunan . Ta.keOutorEatln c1 ~R~ 7\.TITT AL We prepare our foods With ••• - n 1 ~ j ~ ./1 Just a Little Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot of experience We're in Walking Distance 1 0% Student Discount for Take Out Orders Only W /Student I.D. 183 Nott Terrace: Across from Holiday Inn ••-•-a .. a_D_a_o~•a•~·-...-a-a-••i-•-•-•••-•o•u-•-a-~~-~~-·-••~•-•.x~-a-D_ 0 _ 0 _ 1 February 1-3 Save the Dates!

Page 18 CONCORDIENS/S, January 24~ 1985 THE ARTS Bill Cosby entertained at Proctor's last Sunday. \Hey. Hey. Hey!\ By GAYLE ROS~NFELD Editor-in .Chief \This will be one of the strangest evenings ever; what is the score?\ Thus began actor-comedian Bill Cosby's routine at Proctor's Theatre on January 20, Superbowl Sunday. Cosby played two shows that day, one at 3 and the other at 7 p.m. Each performance was sold out (Proctor's capacity is 2,600); standing room only tickets were available the day of the show as well. In his own laid back manner, Cosby provided the audience with his own insights on fatherhood. Having raised five children and obtained his masters and doctorate degrees in education at the University of Massachusetts, Cosby could be considered quite knowledgeable in the area of fatherhood. The show was also reminiscent of a recent episode of his new and successful Tbe Cosby Show which airs Thur- sdays on NBC at 8 p.m. This half hour situation comedy has reawakened the American audience to the comedic ta)ept of Cosby and eal\ned him a nomination from the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (FPA) for a Golden Globe Award. However, Cosby asked not to be considered for he does not wish to compete with his peers. The FPA has not rescinded the nomination. The awards will be telecast on January .27. Nevertheless, Cosby is, once again, at the top of his career and being given recognition for it. Last Sundavr did ,prove to be a strange evening, however. The modest Cosby wandered onto the stage without an in· troduction and seated himself in a canvas director's chair, not the usual stool used by most entertainers. Cosby was rela.x.ed while puffing on his cigar. He was forever con- versing with his audience, using it as a source of material. pets. Each joke rang true with every parent and child in the audience. This is what makes Cosby so funny, his ability to find the humor in things com- mon to everyone. Throughout the evening, Cosby kept the audience up to date on the Super bowl score: 28- 16 at the half at 31-16 at the third quarter. So anyone who chose Cosby over the bowl received the best of both worlds. Cosby's Proctor's per- formance, as it has been for the last hvo years or so, was a shining moment in the theatre's line up. He fills the theatre every year with no end in sight to his ever-growing popularity. Cosby has been and still is the quintessential comedian. Emotional Drama at Egg Cosby prides. himself on the achievements he has made as a parent. He has. \donated to MichaeJ Jackson's wealth'' on behalf of his children through concert tickets and album sales for one thing. Cosby has also instilled in his children the importance of a proper diet: \If you don't eat your vegetables. you don't get any Jello pud- ding.\ Cosby is well known for the earnestness and humor he brings to his General Foods, Coca-Cola, and Texas Instrwnents commercials. The same sincerity and comedic ability that has made him a successful entertainer have endeared him to the conswner as well. Cosby also had an in- troductory act, young jazz guitarist Stanley Jordan. He has played with Dizzie G1llespie and Quincy Jones. What made J ortlaJ:t stand out was his method ~of playing, a tapping technique.Basically, both hands \tap\ on the guitar's neck to produce the music. His dght hand played the lead while his left produced the song's rhyth• m. It was as if two guitarists were performing simultaneously. His coor- dination and dexterity were phenomenal. ByTOD DIMMICK Arts Staff \Acting is believing,\ said Daniel Barton (Honey Johnson) to a crowd gathered around him after the play, \and if you believe in what you are doing, it will work.\ Indeed, the belief of the actors infected more than themselves last Thursday. The emotion one felt while watching this play was all too real. On the Home Front is a drama based on the familiar theme of the troubles veterans face after returning from Vietnam. Fearful and unatr preciated, these men have to resettle in a country of people who have forgotten them. The play focuses on a middle class white woman who was widowed by the infamous conflict. As a way of honoring, her husband, the woman (Mason) decides to teach a remedial English class to the vets. Most of the students turn out to be black, and sud- denly from both sides spout the suspicions and misconceptions that haunt our society. Mason, the white teacher, expects basketball players and thieves. For their part, the class sees Mason as a person who couldn't possibly understand their problems, much less care. Gradually, Mason learns to cope with reality, and as she learns to treat the class as people, the students realize this and move to common ground. The process is made only slower by the fact that the men have learned not to trust. We see the hopelessness of men with no education and skills that are not longer useful, harboring a deep bitterness for those who don't know and can't appreciate. As a play of broken men trying to reform their lives after the war, this play was good. Perhaps even more im- portant is to keep in mind that while we who weren't there easily forget, for others the pain lingers on. For those interested in learning about theatre, the Egg, or The Empire State Institute for the Performing Arts, is well worth visiting. A large and successful institute, The Egg is one of few places of its kind. Performances are inexpensive and the theatre is first rate. In the spirit of the Institute, after each performance the actors make themselves available to meet anyone interested in the play. In the course of one and a half hours on Sunday, Cosby associated fatherhood with brain damage, the Bible, and Jordan's electric guitar af- forded him crisp and clear tones. His selections included \Blue Monk,\ \Somewhere Over the Rainbow,\ \Wave and two of his own corn- positions, \Fundance and \All the Children.\ Jordan thorou~ghly entertained the audience; even the non-jazz enthusiast would have been impressed. His album Magic Touch will be released in February. Dance Ensemble Begun By ALYSSA HOROWITZ Staff A dream is a wild fantasy, an aspiration never thought to become reality. One group's visionary image, however, has come true. The Dance Ensemble, Union's newest constitutioned club, started as an idea in the minds of the. dancers. Alan Tuckman and Michelle Manley, co-presidents of this club, organized this semi- professional group of dancers with the intent of exploring different aspects of &nee. It allows people studying dance a chance to participate outside of the classroom. The Dance Ensemble em- compasses a small group of students working together as well as being involved with members of the dance depart- ment. The Dance Ensemble members include: Michelle Manley (co-president), Alan Tuckman (co-president), Eddie Remy (vice-president), Mindy Hahn (treasurer), Sarah Bit- tleman, Elaine Keaton, Diane Klein, Paul Pisano, Lisa Roller, and Elaine Trainor. Choreographing is Pat Castelli, a dance teacher at Union who has an extensive background in the field of modern dance. The Dance Ensemble plans to concentrate their efforts in the field of modern dance. The members were selected by an open audition held in the fall. The main emphasis was on bodies that move well with the music as well as together. The dancer has to be aware of the others around him in order for each individual's movements to be united into one in order to project the desired image. The Dance Ensemble has put a great deal of work into their newest piece in which eight dancers will perform. The group has rehearsals seven hours a week and expects good attendance. The members are Trio Ludwig will appear tonight in Memorial Chapel at8 p.m. Tickets: $3./JO for students very professional and a great deal of commitment is required. The Dance Ensemble carries high hopes of making the dance program at Union bigger and better. The new dance studio located in the Arts Building is just a start in this expanding program. One ultimate goal of the dancers is to be able to travel and perform at different places as well as have other dancers perform here. This group is always looking for new talented dancers. Open auditions will beheld every trimester for that trimester's piece. Joan Jett and the Blackhearts will be appearing at the Skyway in Scotia on Thursday, January 31. This Weekend at Proctor's Friday, January 25 at8 p.m. Feld Balle.t·-Ticketsare$14, $12,$8.50 Saturday, January 26 at a p.m. Larry Elgart-- Tickets are $14,$12,$8.50 Don't forget Proctor's student discount-- Tickets are available to students for half-price one hour bejo1·e the show depending on availability. . en en CJ) .... a.. +- .... 0 u fj) >- ..0 0 - 0 l:: c. I I u r 0 a i.J h fl tl g r ( p g, d rl Ii b n b g c. \ b \ c J q E p E Sl fi d tt h

with in the makes to com- up to 28- thitd chose ~ceived per- for the was a eatre's sight is the n in- jazz He made s his hands ~ck to right his ing co or- were af- clear com- and the been ~agic in y in Athlete of th.e Week rn rn CD .... a. ..... +-o 0 u \I) >- .0 0 +- 0 .s::: Q. By PAUI.KURKER Sports Staff Congratulations to junior Lisa Freed of the Women's Varsity Swim team for capturing this week's Athlete of the Week honors. Earlier this season against Middlebury, Lisa qualified for the New York State meet in the 50 backstroke and the 500 freestyle. Ix:t recent action at home against Skid- more, Lisa was outstanding as she raced to first place finishes in the 50 backstroke, 100 backstroke, and the 100 in- dividual medley. Despite the team's 0-3 record, many strong indi~idual performances have been recorded this season, and Lisa Freed has been · no ex- ception. Lisa majors in Civil Engineering and is a graduate of White Plains High School where she captained the varsity swim team. Dutchwomen Co-Captain Patty Richards (20) prepares to hit a short jump shot in Union's 61-57 win over Skidmore. Dutchmen Skaters Looking Good ByALWHITE Sports Staff The Skating Dutchmen gave up one goal each to traditional rivals Hamiltoh' and Williams, outskating the Continentals 7-1 and outhitting the Ephmen 4-1, in last week's exciting Union hockey action. The Hamilton game was a win for the defense especially, as they were superb in helping goalie Wayne McDougall nearly record his third career shut-out. (A garbage third period power play goal was Hamilton's only score.) \Are you kiddin' me?!\ defensive stalwart Duane Joyce retorted. \We tatally outclassed Hamilton. We were the much better team in all aspects that night. Defense, offense, on the boards, everywhere.\ The first goal said it all. Curt Cole carried the puck up the left wing, starting a three on one break for the Dutchmen. In what took all but two seconds, Cole passed to the center, where Jamie Knight passed it even quicker to guest right-winger Bill Wernecke, who promptly put it behind a confused Hamilton goalie. Union's second goal was scored by the fourth line, their first goal all season. Sean Wills dumped a nice pass in front of. the net, where Tom Brandell had :what seemed like five U) U) (I) L. 0.. ..... 0 u Cl) >- ..0 .g 0 .s:::. Q. minutes to put it in the net. He did, and Union led, 2-o. The Dutchmen barraged Hamilton's goaltender for the whole second period, so much so that even the refs got confused. Gill Egan just Mrely put the puck over the goal-line, as the goal light flashed to indicate this. But after a conference by the referees and vehement arguing by the Continental goalie, (he even attempted to punch the goal judge, but to no avail-it seems the glass has another purpose . . . ) the goal was nullified. Egan got his revenge a few moments later, however, when he put one between the goalie's pads for Union's fifth goal. He even had a few words for the disgruntled Hamilton net-minder, most likely in an effort to console him. · The Williams game had a totally different complexion than the one against the hapless Corttinentals. It was a tough- checking, hard-hitting game. But Union was more aggressive, and eventually it would show on the scoreboard. The Dutchmen started to out-hit a formidable Ephmen · squad, and as Joyce explained, \After a while, no way they were going to go into the corners with us.\ Egan scored two goals for Union, to make his career mark 64. Cole's power play goal in the first period gave Union a 1-o Recent Dutchmen swimming action at Foote pool in Alumni Gym. Page 19 ScottWykoH On Sports All of us at one time or another have dabbled around the kitchen attempting to create our own perfect concoction. Often it takes a bit more time and work than we would like to admit. After adding a pinch of this ami eventually taking away a pinch of that, one finds that the dish begins to take form. Union Basketball Coach Bill Scanlon has spent many an hour this season in his own kitchen working to mix the ingredients of his roster together. From what has transpired in the· • month of January, it looks as though Scanlon's recipe for winning basketball games is truly ta:king form. Coming into the month of January, something was missing from the recipe. The squad had only won two games against four losing efforts. A year ago at that time it was a much different story. The Joe Wood led hoopers were 5-2 and hopeful of putting together a streak that they hoped would end in a crack at post season action. 1984 was not good to last year's roundball edition as they finished off the campaign with a .500 record. Though this year's team, minus the back court stability of recent years, had a tough go of it in November and December, with the bitter cold of January has came a three game winning streak and a 7-6 record. For the first time in many years Scanlon looked to the prospect of a team without proven guards. All those con- cerned knew that the senior fr.onteourt crew of Kevin Bartlett and Ken D'Orazio could get the job done up front but it was also known that the team had to develop guards to round out the Dutchman line-up~ In the early going this year Bartlett and D'Orazio played well but the team suffered due to the lack of production from the backcourt. As of late things have turned armmd for the boys in garnet and one could say it has came from the back to the front. The Dutchmen won their third in a row last Saturday and a few of Scanlon's ingredients began to work for him. Union played host to a St. Lawrence con- tingent that was red hot having won eight straight. Though the Dutchmen missed their first eight shots from the field, they battled back to only trail the Saints by two at the half. St. Lawrence came out like Crisco Bill Wernecke (10) and Gill Egan (11) work the puck deep in the Hamilton zone. Union won 7·1. lead, and they began to take control of the game by the second period. Although Williams' goal in the third period had Williams' fans on their feet, feeling momentum swing their way with the score 3-1 (a basic example of over- Trackmen •.• Continued from page 20 Anderson from Vermont, with a time of 11:09.1. The men and women track teams travel next to Platt- sburgh on Saturday for the Cardinal Classic. The men now have a 3-1 record while the womea own a 1-3 slate. In other Union track news: members of the men's team traveled to Boston on Saturday for the New England TAC meet. Race walker standout, Jim Mann, placed 2nd in the two optimism), Egan quieted them down thirty-two seconds later with his second goal. Union travels to Buffalo for two games out there, and will then have ten games remaining for their final drive to the playoffs. Stay tuned! mile walk with a time of 13:22.8 qualifying him for the T AC nationals as well as the Millrose games on Friday in New York. Wayne Lacy placed 4th in the pale vault with a jump of 13 ft., Scott Remillard placed 8th in the 35lb. weight with a throw of 52 ft. 2¥2 inches. In that same event, Olympian Jud Logan set a new American record with a throw of 77 ft. 9% inches. Coach Russ Ebbets com- peted, as well, finishing 2nd in the masters division of the 1500 meter run with a time of 4:14.9. WRUC 89.7 FM Presents: Skating Dutchmen Hockey Friday .................... At Buffalo Saturday ................. At Geneseo Next Thursday .............. At Sale.m All gamesat7:30p.m. with pregame coverage at7:00 p.m . on 'the fire in the second half and opened a ten point lead with a little more than twelve minutes to go in the contest. Union fought back and eventually beat the Saints in three overtimes. Saturday was a typical day at the job fot Bartlett as he finished with 24 but how about those other two top scorers in the box score. Br~ck and Levine? Well, .freshma 1 guard Tom Beck had 14 pts . .vhile his .Pack- court buddy Kt·n Levine tallied for a career high 20 with six points and two: t=als in the final minutes of the tJtird overtime. Beck has been a 1 tarter all year for Union but l as started to contribute more< .s of late. \The last couple of games he has played real VI ell for us,\ comments Scan!on. \Tom has been a little more offensive minded in the last few games and that add<; another dimen- sion to our offe1se. Tom sets the Dutchmen offl·nse in motion from the point guard position and when he plays as a scorer he opens up the floor for his teammates. Be~k has started to penetrate effectively and got the assist on D'Orazio's hoop that forced Saturday's game into O.T. He went to the bucket and 'at the last minute dished the ball off to his big pal inside. \You never really know how quickly a freshman will develop,\ remarks the Dut- chmen's 12th year mentor; Beck has been a starter from day one this year. \I can see his development improving on a constant basis.\ Sophomore Ken Levine has been slowly working his way into the ·starting five since the break and has really produced as of late · from the guard position. Levine proved he could put the ball in the hole last year as he led Bob Pezzano's junior varsity in scoring. Ken's recent exploits in the backcourt have made the Dutchmen a much better team. His numbers have improved with each game and has helped to give a bit of stabilitytoScanlon's backcourt. Scanlon has liked what he has seen over the last couple of weeks. \I think the team is better now than it was in the first six or seven games,\ said Scanlon. And why? \We're maturing as a team. Defen- sively we're improved over a month ago and we're getting closer to playing up to all of our abilities,\ comments Scanlon. \I sense more of a feeling of confidence amongst each other on the team.\ Just take a look who won Saturday's game for the Dutchmen. Both Bartlett and D'Orazio were out of the lineup down the stretch and · players like Tom Beck and Ken Levine picked up the offensive slack that earned Union its seventh win of the season. This weekend, Scanlon's young troops put their longest streak of the last two years on the line against visiting Hobart on Friday night and Rochester Saturday night. \The next three games are important to us,\ explains Scanlon. \We've played a lot of games on the road and at home while students were gone on break. Home court advantage is important in college basketball.\ It's still too early to know if Scanlon's ingredients have all mixed together correctly but one would have to think it might be time to get some pot holders and move his recipe on into the dining room.

CONCORDJENSJS, Jonllliry 24, 1985 RTS Beat Middlebury, St. Lawrence .. Dutchlllen Hoops 'Take Two BY MARK VAN BUREN Sports Staff It was a memorable January evening in Middlebury, Ver- mont for the Union basketball team last Wednesday. However, at the start of the game, this might not have been the thought i_n most peoples' minds. The Dutchmen came out of the blocks sluggishly, and minutes before halftime they found themselves looking at a .... ... \L: .... ell :E a.: >- ..0 ~ .c a. Dutchmen had to snatch victory from the hands of defeat. Using an aggressive man-to-man defense, that caused 31 St. Lawrence tumover·s, Union was able to subdue a highly- talented, 9-3 St. Lawrence team · and finally put them away in the third overtime period, 89-33. Playing for the most part without senior center Ken D'Orazio due to a stomach virus, it was evident that the Dutchmen ·would miss an in- Freshman point guard Tom Beck takes a jumper from the top of the key. Union defeated St. Lawrence 89·83 in triple overtime. with a jwnper from the top of the key with :Olleft .to knot the score at 77. And it was Levine who scored 6 points in the final overtime to seal the victory for Union. DUTCHMEN NOTES ... With his 34 pts. vs. Middlebury and 8 pts. vs. St. Lawrence team D'Orazio moved into sixth place on the all-time scoring list· with 1;032 pts. His next goal will be to pass Dave Santos (1,117 pts.) who played with Union from 1960- ~963 . . . Sophomore guard Ken Levine, who tlegan the season as a substitute seeing little action off the bench, has cracked his way into the starting line-up through his hard work, exceptional passing and \never say die\ attitude ... Levine sparked the Dutchmen win vs. St. Lawrence, scoring 20 pts. · including 12 in the three overtime periods ... Two other usual non-starters, Neil Winawer and Rich Bartosch played pivotal roles in Satur- day's three OT victory. Winawer scored 12 pts. and Bartosch added five pts. and a game-high 14 rebounds . . . Freshman forward Kurt Fox suffered a minor ankle injury whUe playing for the JV team in their victory over Hartwick, Saturday. It is expected that he will return to the varsity line-up this weekend for their games at home: D'Orazio is also ex- pected to make his presence felt as he returns this weekend . . . Tom Beck, who received a hip flexor in the St. Lawrence game, missed practice Monday and Tuesday but will be ready by game time Friday. DUTCHMEN SPORTSWEEK January 24-January 31 Thursday l/24 women's Swimming vs. Hartwick Men's Swimming vs. Hartwick Friday 1/25 Men's Basketball its. Hobart Men's Hockey at Buffalo Women's Basketball at Binghamton Tourney Saturday 1/26 Men's Basketball vs. Rochester Men's Hockey at Geneseo Women,s Basketball aJ Bing'bamton Tourney Men~s Swimming.at Norwich Men's Indoor Track at Plattsburgh lnvy Women.'s 1 ndoor Track at Plattsburgh Tourney Sunday 1/27 JV Hockey vs. Oyster Bay \'f;uesday 1/29 Women's Basketball at Middlebury Wednesday l/30 JV Hockey vs. Trinity-Pawling Women's Swimming V~. New Paltz Men's Swimming at New· Paltz, Vassar Thursday 1/31 Men's BasketbgJI at Williams. Men's Hockey at Salem JV Basketball at Williams Union 7 Union 4 Avon? GARNET SCOREBOARD January.l4-January 21 HOCKEY (6·6) J.V. HOCKEY (2·5) MEN'S BASKETBALL (7·6) 4:00p.m. 4:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 7:.30p.m. ~:OOp.m. 12:45p.h1. 7:30p.m. 3:30p.m. 4:00p.m. 4:30p.m:· 8:00p.m. 7:30 p.ni. 6:oop.m. Hamilton 1 WHiiams-2 Union 1 Union 74 Union 89 Middlebury67 St. Lawrence (3 OT's) 83 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (1-6) Union 61 Albany St. 65 Hartwick68 Union71 Union 71 Vermont67 Union 28 Skidmore 106 Russell Sage 64 MEN'S TRACK (3-1) WOMEN'S TRACK (3·1) WOMEN'S SWIMMING (0·3) Skidmore 57 Union 46 Union 49 Colgate63 Plattsburgh 35 Union 28 Plattsburgh 26 Union 29 Union48 26-16 deficit. This is when the Union quintet started to play what the coaches would later call, \ ... their best 30 minutes stretch of basketball of the season.\ The Dutclunen limited Middlebury College to just 27 percent shooting for those 30 minutes-including 29 percent in the entire second half-while they worked patiently on the offensive end of the court in recording a second half field goal mark of 60 percent. Union rallied to a 28-28 tie at in- termission, and continued the rally right after the break by scoring 10 of the first 11 points of the new period. Union led by as many as 19 points on several occasions en route to a 7 4-67 victory. tegral part of their offense, which proved correct, as they didn't score their first points until 15:14, and still had only one basket at the 13:21 mark of the first half. It was also evident that they would be looking to senior Kevin Bartlett to help in making up for D'Orazio's partial absence. Bartlett didn't disappoint, as he responded with 24 . points and nine rebounds. Freshman guard Tom Beck, whose fullmcourt driving, desperation lay-up spun around the rim before falling out as time expired in regulation, also helped pick up the scoring slack with 14 points. Sophomores Rich Bartosch and Neil Winawer, the latter forced to start his first varsity game because of D'Orazio's illness, added timely points and rebOunds to go along with aggressive hustle. Tr-ackmen Prevail In Tri-Meet On a personal note, Ken D'Orazio became just the seventh player in Union basketball history to surpass the 1,000 point plateau, as he broke loose for a career-high 34 points to complement his 14 rebounds and four blocked shots. Kevin Bartlett, who forms the other half of the Dutchmen's 1-2 frontcourt punch, contributed 16 points and a very steady game, while freshman Rob Parento was the only other pla;yer in double figures as he chipped in with 12 points. On Saturday, however, the However, although this victory represented a total team effort, the major con- tributor was sophomore guard Ken Levine. Levine, who after a lethargic first half, came to life in the second half and overtime periods by scoring 20 points to go with six assists and four steals. It was Levine who hit a lay-up with :09 left in the first overtiihe to put Union ahead 71· 69. It was Levine who sent the game into the third extra period WRUC Ben & Jerry's . Hockey Star of the Year Tom Hodgins .................. .. • 17 Nelson Said • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 16 Wayne McDougall • • • • • • • • • • • • • ·• • • • 16 Gill Egan . • . . • . . . . . . • • . • . . Cl • • • • • 14 Tom Brandell • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • 5 Jamie Knight • • • .. • .. .. • • • • .. • • • • • .. • • • 4 Curt Cole . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • . • • • • . • . 3 John MacKenzie • .. • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2 Three tied wi~ 1 BY ANDYHODGKIN Sports Staff To chants of \O.D. O.D.\ from a large crowd of Union students, juniors Chris O'Donnell and Bill McRoberts charged to a 1-2 finish going away in the 3000 meter race to clinch a double win for the Union track team over Colgate and Plattsburg at the Union Field House last Friday night. With three events to go, the· Dutchmen were in a close meet with Colgate with a score of 60 to 52. Plattsburg was a distant third with 30 points. As O'Donnell and McRoberts · stepped to the line, McRoberts was running his first race of the season after coming off an injury. Union expected to do well in this race since they were fielding the two top distance runners in the Dutchman program. O'Donnell and McRoberts ran the first half of the race at the back of the lead pack led by. O'Connor of Colgate. With a little more than half a mile to go the duo took charge 1 ;pfd to the delight of a pro-Uni6n crowd began to widen a large· lead. O'Donnell ended up winning with fl time of 9:08.4 while McRoberts finished in 9:10.7. O'Connor eventually faded to fourth getting beaten out by Mulson of Plattsburg at the wire. Other outstanding per- fonnances were turned in by the Dutchmen as individual perfortne:rs captured a total of seven first places. In the 1500 meter race, sophomore Milte Reed lead throughout, taking a comanding early lead and holding off a late challenge from Plattsburg's Ferreri to win in 4:06.5. In the field events, first place finishes were taken by junior Scott Remillard in the 35 lb. weight with a throw of 47 ft. 3 inch~es freshnnan VVayne Lacy in th le vault with a jump of 13 .. , and former basketball Dutchmen recorded a 71-63-35 win. In the women's meet on Fr~day, the Dutchwomen salvaged. a split losing to Division I Vermont and defeating Plattsburg by two \' lll .... Q. ..... 0 u II) >- . ..0 ~ .c ., a. ' Junior Scott Remillard heaves the 35 lb. weight en route to a first place finish. stand-out Bruce Witherspoon in the high jump, cruising to an easy win with a leap of 6 ft. 4 inches. Other first places in the running events included junior Winston Britton's convincing 1 : 07.77 win in the 500 meter race. Maine native, Rob Mohlar recorded his first Win of the season ih the 800 meter race with a time of 2:02.7. Following the 3000 meter race, a disqualification due to an illegal hand off and a second place finish in the mile and two mile relay did not matter as the points, 67-28-26. The depth of the Vermont team was too much for the Union and Plattsburg tracksters as the Dutchmen managed ·only one first and two seconds individually. In the 400 meter race Grief of Union outran Taylor of Vermont with a time of 67.19 to win. Sophomore Gigi Giordano managed a second in the triple jump with a leap of 25 ft. 10 inches. In the 3000 meter race sophomore Amy Walsh took second, not quite able to catch Continued on page 19

Page20 CONCORDIENS/S, /ll\ll~TY 24, 1985 .. , Beat Middlebury, St. Lawrence Dutchn1en Hoops Take Two BY MARK VAN BUREN Sports Staff It was a memorable January evening in Middlebury, Ver- mont for the Union basketball team last ·Wednesday. However, at the start of the game 1 this might not have been the thought m most peoples' minds. The Dutchmen came out of the blocks sluggishly, and minutes before halftime they found themselves looking at a Dutchmen had to snatch victory from the hands of defeat. Using an aggressive man-to-man defense, that caused 31 St. . Lawrence turnovers, Union was able to subdue a highly- talented, 9-3 St. Lawrence team · and finally put them away in the third overtime period, 89-83. Playi,ng for the most part without .senior center Ken D'Orazio due to a stomach virus, it was ev'ident that the Dutchmen would miss an in· Freshman point guard Tom Beck takes a jumper from the top of the key. Union defeated St. Lawrence 89·83 in trip I.e overtime. with a jumper from the top ·of the .key with ;01 left to knot the score at 77. And it was Levine who scored 6 points in the final overtime to seal the victory for Union. DUTCHMEN NOTES . . • With his 34 pts. vs. Middlebury and 8 pts. Vf!~ St. Lawrence team D'Orazio moved into sixth place on the all•time scoring-list with 1,032 .pts. His next goal will be to pass Dave Santos (1,117 pt~.) who played with Union .from 1960-+963 ... Sophomore guard Ken Levine, who oegan the season .as a substitute seeing little action off the bench, has cracked his way into the starting line-up through his hard work, exceptional passing and' 'never say die\ attitude ... Levine sparked the Dutchmen win vs. St. Lawrence, scoring 20 pts. • including 12 In the three overtitne periods ... Two other usual non~starfers, Neil Winawer and Rich Bartosch played pivotal roles in Satur- day's three OT victory. Winawer scored 12 pts. and Bartosch added five pts. and a game-high 14 rebounds . . . . Freshman forward Kurt Fox sUffered a minor ankle injury while playing for the JV team in their victory over Hartwick, Saturday. It is expected that he will return to the varsity lin~up this weekend for their games at home: D'Orazio is also ex- pected to make his presence felt as he returns this weekend .. ·. Tom Beck, who received a hip flexor in the St. Lawrence game, missed· practice Monday and Tuesday but will ~ ready by game time Friday. DUTCHMEN SPORT.SWE.~K January 24-January 3'1\ Thursday l/24 Women's.Swimming vs. Ha.rtwick 4:00p.m. 4:00p.m. Men's Swimming vs. Hi;lrtwkk Friday 1/2.5 Men's 'B<!sketball vs. Hobart Men's Hockey a.t B,uffalo Women's Basketball at Bing!lamton Tourney Saturday l/26 Men's Basketball vs. Rochester Men's Hockey at Geneseo · Women;s. Basketball at BJngl:l<!rn.ton Tourney Men~sSwimming at Norwich Men's 1 ndoor Track at Plattsburgh I nvy Women's Indoor Track at Pla~tsburgh Tourney · sunday 1/27 JV Hoc;:'key vs. ·Oyster Bay T-uesday 1/29 Women's Basketball (!tMid:dlebvry Wedr.1esday 1./30 JVHockey vs. TriniJy\Pawling Women's Swimming v·s. New Palt~ Men's Swimming at New· PC!Jtt, Vc\:~ssar · Thursday l/31 Men's Basketb!3H a.t Williams. Men's Hockey at Salem JV. Basketball at Wiflii;tms ·.· Union.? Union4 Avon? GARNET SCOREBOARD January.l4-January 21 HOCK~Y ·(6·6) J.V. HOCKEY (2-5) MEN'S BASKETBALL .(7·6) 8:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 8 :OO·p.m. 7:30,p.m. l :00 p.m. 12:45p.m. 7:30p.m, 3:30p.m. 4:oop.rn. 4.:30p.m:- ·a:oop.m. 7:30p.m .. 6:oop .. m. Hamilton 1 Witliams.2 union 1 Union 74 Union 89 Middlebury 67· St. Lawrence (3 OT's) 83 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (1·6.) Union61 Albany St. 65 Hartwick 68 Union 71 Union 71 Vermont67 . Union 28 Skidmore 106 Russell Sage 64 MEN'S TRACK (3-1) WOMEN'S TRACK (3·1) WOMEN'S SWIMMING C0·3) Skidmore 57 Union46 Union 49 Colgate 63 .Plattsburgh 35 . Union 28 Plattsburgh 26 Union 29 u.nion48 26-16 deficit. This is when the Union quintet started to play what the coaches would later call, \ ... their best 30 minutes stretch of basketball of the season.\ The Dutchmen limited Middlebury College to just 27 percent shooting for those 30 minutes-including 29 percent in the entire second half-while they worked patiently on the offensive end of the court in recording a second half field goal mark of 60 percent. Union rallied to a 28-28 tie at in· termission, and continued the rally right after the break by scoring 10 of the first·ll points of the new period. Union led by as many as 19 points on several occasions en route to a 74-67 victory. tegral part of their offense, which proved correct, as they didn't score their first points until 15:14, and still had only one basket at the 13:21 mark of the first half. It was also evident that they would be looking to senior Kevin Bartlett to l:lelp in making up for D'Orazio's partial absence. Bartlett didn't disappoint, as he responded with 24 points and nine rebounds. Freshman guard Tom Beck, whose fuU-court driving, desperation lay-up spun around the rim before falling out as time expired in regulation, also helped pick up the scoring slack with 14 points. Sophomores :aich Bartosch and Neil Winawer, the latter forced . to start his first varsity game because of D'Orazio's illness, added timely points and rebounds to go along with aggressive hustle. Tr-ackmen Prevail In Tri-Meet On a personal note, Ken D'Orazio became just the seventh player in Union basketball history to surpass the 1,000 point plateau, as he broke loose for a career-high 34 points to complement his 14 rebounds and four blocked shots. Kevin Bartlett, who forms the other half of the Dutchmen's 1-2 frontcourt punch, contributed 16 points and a very steady game, while freshman Rob Parento was the only other player in double figures as he chipped in with 12 points. On Saturday, however, the However, although this victory represented a total team effort, the major con- tributor was sophomore guard Ken Levine. Levine, who after a lethargic first half, came to life in the second half and overtime periods by scoring 20 points to go with six assists and four steals. It was Levine who hit a lay-up with :09 left in the first overtirhe to put Union ahead 71- 69. It was Levine who sent the game into the third extra period WRUC Ben & Jerry's ~ Hockey Star of the Year Tom Hodgins •••••••••••••••••••• Nelson, Said • • .. • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 17 16 Wayne McDougall. • • • • • • • • • • • • ·• .. • • 16 -Gill Egan •. • • • • • • • • • • • • •. • • • • • • • • • 14 Tom Brandell • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • .. • 5 JCimie Knight • • • • • • • • • • • • ., • • • • o • • • 4 Curt Cole ......................... 3 John Mackenzie • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2 Three tied wiftll BY ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff To chants of \O.D. O.D.\ from a large crowd of Union students, Juniors ~hris O'Donnell and Bill McRoberts charged to a 1·2 finish going away in the 3000 meter race to clinch a double win for the Union track team over Colgate and Plattsburg at the Union Field House last Friday night. With three events to go, the · Dutchmen were in a close meet with Colgate with a score of 60 to 52. Plattsburg was a distant third with 30 points. As O'Donnell and McRoberts · stepped to the line, McRoberts was running his first race of the season after coming off an injury. Union expected to do well in this race since they were fielding the · two top distance runners in the Dutchman ,program. · O'Donnell and McRoberts ran the first half of the race at the back of the lead pack led by. O'Connor of Colgate. With a little move than half a mile to go the duo took charge, 91'1d to the delight of a . pro·Uni'On crowd began to Widen a large' lead. O'Donnell ended up winning with p. time of 9:08.4 while McRoberts finished in 9: 10.7. O'Connor eventually faded to fourth getting beaten out by Mulson of Plattsburg at the wire. Other· outstanding per- formances were turned in by the Dutchmen as individual performers captured a total of seven first places .. In the 1500 meter race; sophomore Mike Reed lead throughout, taking a comanding early lead and hOlding off a late challenge from Plattsburg's Ferreri to win in 4:00;5. In the field events, first place finishes were taken by junior Scott Remillard in the 35 lb, weight with a throw of 47 ft. 3 inches, freshman VVayne Lacy in the--bole vault with a jump of 13 J(.; and fonner basketball . Dutchmen recorded a 71-63-35 win. In the women's meet on Fr\day, the .Dutchwomen salvaged. a split losing to Division I Vermont and defeating Plattsburg by two \' f a.. =a u IJ) >- • ..0 .:: 0 s;; c. Junior Scott Remillard heaves the 35 lb. weight en rQU.te to a first pl(!ce finish. stand-out Bruce Witherspoon in the high jwnp, cruising to an easy win with a leap of 6 ft. 4 inches. other first places in the running events included junior Winston Britton's convincing 1:07.77 win in the 500 meter race. Maine native, Rob Mohlar recorded his first win of the season in the 800 meter race with a time of 2:02.7. Following the 3000 meter race, a dis.qualification due to an illegal hand off and a second place finish in the mile and two mile relay did not matter as the points, 67-28-26. The depth of the Vermont team was too much for the Union and Plattsbm·g trackster.s as the Dutchmen managed-only one first and two seconds individually. In tne 400 meter race Grief of Union outran Taylor of Vermont with a time of 67.19 to win. Sophomore Gigi Giordano managed a second in the triple jump with a leap .of 25 ft. 10 inches. In the 3000 meter race sophomore Amy Walsh took second, not quite able to catch Continued on page 19

on to and two VI VI ~ Q. ·+- 15 u tJ) > . .c ~ ~. .s::. for no ce ok ch ~19 Q. \J t\· \ ( ~ 0( --:re ec ( J IL CXIV~ No. 11 Vice President of Administration Thomas D'Andrea discusses the recent decision to increase teaching positions at Union. Teaching Load to Decrease -· Bulk Rate U.S. Postage ~;'aid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 January 31, 1 985 Faculty Positions Added By .JAN B.-mAN Staff At the Board of Trustees meeting held earlier this month President John Morris an- nounced that Union, in the upcoming decade, will be seeking to enhance the qualit~ of its education. ln order to improve the Union education, . two noteworthy changes will be made in academics at the College. The first change involves the addition of new faculty mem- bers. Currently, the plan is to add two to four faculty mem- bers a year for the next three years. According to the Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea, there are many good reasons for in- creasing the size of Union's faculty. ship. D'Andrea also mentioned that the academic atmosphere at Union encourages \hidden teaching,\ such as in- dividualized study which is not included in the course load. Computer Access Limited First, the addition of \new blood\ will bring new topic areas to the ·curriculum. Second, it will also strengthen departments presently lacking the number of courses ap- propriate for a school of this caliber. These additions to the faculty are possible because the College now has a \firm financial foundation.\ D'Andrea believes that The seven-course load, in addition to professors' other duties is too much to expect from Union professors ac- cording to D'Andrea. As he stated, ''Given the intensity and level of academics that we expect of our students and our faculty, the typical professor's course load is just too heavy.•• In making this judgment, D'Andrea compared Union with other colleges of its caliber, including Hamilton and Colgate. Most schools require professors to teach only five to six courses during an academic year. When calculated into working hours, a · Union professor works 280 hours in an academic year, or thirty-four more hours than professors at Hamilton. By GAVLE ROSENFELD Editor-tn.--Chief Access to word processing facilities on campus has steadily increased during the last three years of the College's Five-Year-Computer Plan, yet as of late, such resources have seemed to come in short supply. As mote and more students have discovered word processing and become adept a. this process, the laws .of supp' y and demand have ensurr.d, d~mand seemingly exceel! .~.ng the supply. How the College plans to handle the situation it, ir fact, created, is in question he~ e. Not only the student, but also the staff and faculty have been encouraged to work with the College's word processors. What are the administration's plans for the future of word processing? The College's duty and commitment to expanded computer use on campus has created a jockeying for position on the ,computer priority list: who has more rights to this limited resource, the student, faculty member or staff per- son? The answer to these questions is not easily found. It appears that some College ad- ministrators and faculty have diverse views on this subject, seemingly coming down to the faculty vs. the administration. In essence, part of the ad- ministration views word processing as an overused campus facility: \It is not an unlimited resource,\ said Thomas D. 'Andrea, vice ' president for administration. Some of the faculty, however, might believe, as Professor Baker of the philosophy department, that ''Every thesis student should have the right to use a computer facility\ to write his or her senior project. Where does one draw the line? According to Wayne Holt, director of computer services, \There will be some level of (word processing) service provided by my organization,\ but again the supply simply does not exist; the numbe~ of terminals necessary is just not and will not be· there. As for D' mdtea, he believes, '~We (fle College) should not provide v ord processing to students. It 1 1old a \low priority for com- puter usage.\ This discrepancy here is whether word processing is a viable teaching tool or not. If word processing could be called a teaching aid then the College would be in favor of it. The Computerized Humanities Curriculum (CHUC) was based on this premise.· ~'The idea behind . CHUC,\ noted D'Andrea, \was not to provide students with just a fancy typewriter,'' but really to im- prove their writing. It was hoped that students would \Our committment is to improve your (the students') ability to work with computers. -Holt revise their work, thus improve it, more frequently if they had access to such an easy word processing tool like CHUC. However, ~'some of the early indications that we've gotten out of the CHUC program is that they (students) don't do that (revise),\ said D'Andrea. Of course the preceptorial students on the facility must revise their work anyway, but this process has not always been carried over into other courses as well. Professor Baker, CHUC;s director, is much more op- timistic about CHUC's future as well as its past. According to his findings, 93 percent of the students who used CHUC during the first few terms of its existence here found \it was · extremely good or excellent.\ Complaints were mostly about \overcrowding during the mid quarter and finals.'' Baker sees CHUC as an ex- cellent insturcti've· tool and is looking to expasd tbis two year experimental project through a new CHUC grant proposal, submitted last September. Notes Baker, \Whenever the faculty find a better way to teaeh, the College should provide the resources.\ Baker believes that CHUC is that resource. How does word processing come into play here? According to Holt, \Our commitment is to improve your (the students') ability t'o work with com- puters.'' Word processing thus figures into this responsibility. But again resources are limited. \Most colleges have a bargain or incentive system,\ said D'Andrea, whereby ~ers are allotted more computer time if they work during off peak hours. Union does not have such a system, however. \There is no incentive here for a student to buy a personal computer,\ said D'Andrea, for he or she can use the College's. The school purchased · 160 Rainbow microcomputers last term at a 35-45 percent discount and decided to pass this savings on to the College. At a cost of $1,950 per unit, anyone could own his own personal computer. The College still has 40 Rain- bows to sell while 20 of the original 160 have been designated for College use. In response to the available 40 unsold Rainbows, Holt noted that he \was surprised at how many we sold.\ · Access to the Rainbow ter- VI minals in Steinmet 100, ~ )lowever, is being limited this :C term. According to the January ~ 14, 1985 Peschel Center Weekly, .2 \The use of this room (SlOO) g. will be .closely monitored. If c word processing use is so great ~ that the machines are not .... 0 o available to students who .~:: require their use fordasswork- a. CS130, CS34, Bioi 34-then word processing use will be restricted as necessary. Students who intend to use the public facility to produce lengthy papers should be aware that their privileges may be curtailed later in the term.\ In other words, thesis students and the like would he well advised not to use the SlOO terminals for the Continued on page 4 Union is really \in a position to attain to the next level of e).!:cellence.\ The second crucial part of · attaining excellence at Union is the reduction of Union professors' course loads. At present a typical professor at Union teaches seven courses during the three trimesters. Thus during one term a professor may be teaching three courses. In addition to the seven-course load, most professors advise thesis students, .supervise students' projects or research, and engage in necessary scholar- The main justification for decreasing the course load of professors is to enable the professors to have more time to assist students, prepare for classes, and engage in scholarship. D'Andrea believes that the \quality of life throughout Continued on page 2 :o· .. - '~ .. DO NOT RECEIVE BENEFITS OR PROTECTION Labor union worker outside Union Avenue gate pickets Barson's Construction Company, a non-union company contracted to build the new Engineering Lab. See the editorial page. Winter Carnival Schedule *-Page Nine-*

.. 3 9 8 ~3-35 on men to and two urg two of no 10 • \) t\1\ ('1~. )eec <o lL CXIV~ No. 11 Vice President of Administration Thomas D'Andrea discusses the recent d~clsion to increase teaching positiO!Is at Union. Teaching Load to Decrease •• Bul,kRate U.S. Postage :faJd PenQ.It No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 January 31, 1985 Faculty Positions Added ByjANB~AN Staff At the Board of Trustees meeting held earlier this month President John Morris an- no_unced that Union, in the Upcoming decade, will be seeking to enhance the. qualit:l§ of its education. In order to impro:ve the Union education, . two noteworthy changes will be made in academics at the College. The first change involves the addition of new faculty mem- bers. Currently, the plan is to add two to four faculty mem- bers a year for the next three years. According to the Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D' An~ea, there are many good reasons for in- creasing the size of Union's faculty. ship. D'Andrea also mentioned that the academic atmosphere at Union encourages \hidden teaching,\ such as in- dividualized study which is not included in the course load. C .. . . . . . ·.• • d · omputer Access Ltmtte · First, the addition of \new blood\ will bring new topic areas to the \curriculum. Second, it will also strengthen departments presently lacking the number of courses ap- propriate for a school of this caliber. These additions to the faculty are possible because the College now has a \firm financial foundation.\ The seven-course lmid, in addition to professors' other duties is too much to expect from Union professors ac- cording to D'Andrea. As he stated, ''Given the inten~ity and level of academics that we expect of our students and our faculty, the typical professor's course load is just too heavy.\ Iri making this judgment, D'Andrea compared Union with other colleges of its caliber, including Hamilton and Colgate. Most schools require professors to teach only five to six courses during an academic year. When calculated into w·orking hours, a · Union professor wo-rks 280 hours in an academic year, or thirty-four more hours than professors at Hamilton. By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor-in-chief Access to word processing facilities on campus has steadily increased during the last three years of the COllege's Five-Year~Computer PlaQ., yet as of late, such re~ources have seemedto come in short supply. As mote and more students have· discovered . word processing and become adept a. this process, the laws of supp'.y and demand have ensurr .d, d~mand seemingly exceetf.ng the supply. HtJw the College plans to handle the situation it, ir fact, created, Is in question he~·e. Not only the student, but also the staff :and faculty have been encouraged to wor~ with the College's word processors. What are the administration's plans for the future of word processing? The College's duty and commitment to expanded computer use on campus has created a jockeying for position on the ,computer priority list: who has more rights to this limited resource, the student, faculty member or staff per• son? The answer to these questions is not easily found. It appears that some College ad- ministrators and faculty have diverse views on this subject, seemingly coming down to the· faculty vs. the administratton. In essence, part of the ad- ministration views word processing as an overused campus facility: \It is not an unlimited resource,\ said Thomas D.' Andrea, vice ' president for administration.· Some of the faculty, however, might believe, as Professor Baker of the philosophy department, that \Every thesis student should have the right to use a computer facility\ to write his or her senior project. Where does one draw the line? According to Wayne Holt, director of computer services, \There will be some level of (Wbrd . processing) service provided by my organization,'' but .again the supply simply does n~t e~ist; the nt1Illbe~of terminals necessary is just not and will not be ·there. As for D' \ndrea, he believeS; \.We ft'.1e College) should not provide· v otd processing to students. It 1 told a \low priority: for com- puter usage.\ This discrepancy here is whether word processing is a viable teaching tool or not. If word processing could .be called a teaching aid then the College would be in favor of it. The Computerized Humanities Curriculwn (CHUC) was based on this premise, · ~·The idea behind - CHUC,\ noted D'Andrea, ''was not to provide students with ji:1St a fancy typewriter,\ but really to im- prove their writing. It was hoped that students would \Our cmnmittment is to improve your (the • · students') ability to work . with computers. -Holt Notes Baker, \Whenever the faculty find a better way to teaeb, the Colleg-e should provide the resources.\ Baker believes that CHUC is that resource. How does word processing come into play here? According to Holt, \Our commitment is to improve your (the students') ability fo work with com- puters.\ Word processing thus figures into this responSibility. But again resources are limited. \Most colleges have a bargain or incentive system,\ said D'Andrea, whereby users are allotted more computer time if they work during off peak hours. Union does not have such a system, however. \There is no incentive here for a student to buy a personal computer,\ said D'Andrea; for he or she can use the College's. The school purchased 160 Rainbow microcomputers last term at a 35-45 perc-ent discount and decided to pass this savings on to the College. At a cost of D'Andrea believes that Union is really ''in a position to attain to the next level of _e~ceUe.nee.\ The second crucial part of · attaining excellence at Union is the reduction of Union professors' course loads. At present a typical professor at Union teaches seven courses during the three trimesters. Thus during one term a professor may be teaching three courses. In addition to the seven-course load, most professors advise thesis students, supervise students' projects or research, and engage in necessary scholar- The main justification for decreasing the course load of professors is to enable the professors to have more time to assist students, prepare for classes, and engage in scholarship. D'Andrea believes that the \quality of life throughout Continued on page 2 .L.-.----------------~ $1,950 per unit, anyone could revise their Work, thus improve it, more frequently if they had access to such an easy word processing tool like · CHUC. However ,..:'some of the early indications that w.e've gotten out of the CHUC program is that they (students) don't do that (revise),'' said D'Andrea. Of course the preceptorial students on the facility must revise their work anyway, but this process has not always been carried over into other courses as well. Professor Bak{!r, CHUC;s director, is much more op- timistic about CHUG's future as well as its past. Accordingto his findings, 93 percent of the students who used CHUC during the first few terms of its existence here found \it was · extremely good or excellent.\ Complaints were mostly about \overcrowding during the mid quarter and finals.'' Baker sees CHUC as an ex- cellent insturctive· tool and is looking to ex:paad this two year experimental project through a new CHUG grant proposal, submitted Jast September. own his own personal computer. The College still has 40 Rain- bows to sell while 20 of the original 160 have been designated for College use. In response to the available 40 unsold Rainbows, Holt noted that he \was surprised at how many we sold.\ · Access to the Rainbow ter- (/) · · minals in Steinmet 100, ~ . ,however,- is being limited this :C term. According to the January ~ 14,1985 Peschel Center Weekly, _a \The use of' this room (8100) g. will be .closely monitored. If c word processing use is so great ~ that the machines are not .e available to students who _g · . require their use for class work- a. CS130, CS34, Bioi 34.-then word processing use will be restricted as necessary. Students who intend tQ use the public facility to produce lengthy papers should be aware that their privileges may be curtailed later in the term.\ In other words, thesis students and the like would be well advised not to use the 8100 terminals for the Continued on page 4 .' DO NOT RECEIVE BENEFITS OR PROTECTION . ~. '··.- \ ' Labor union worker outside Union Avenue gate pickets Barson's Construction Company, a non-union company contracted to build the new Engineering Lab. See the editorial page. Winter Carnival Schedule *-Page Nine-*

Page2 CQNCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1985 !II ro Cl :2 u CIJ c: .r:. Cl. ro 0 >- ..0 0 0 .c: a. ~ ':{. .. dill!&~. f>£. Bishop Howard Hubbard spoke with Senior Luke Fannon at the Pub, after speaking a·t 7:30 mass sunday night at the Church of St. John the Evangelist. Teachers to Teach Less Continued from page 1 would improve if professors had less courses each.\ Another reason for decreasing the teaching load is that \it will be an important stimulus to at- tract\ the best quality professors to Union,\ according to D'Andrea. A top-quality professor will find a reduced load more attractive because it will enable him to engage in scholarly activities and prepare better classes. The reduced load will bring some changes to Union's academics, however. The most significant change will be the probably decrease in the number of courses available during a particular term. Although new professors will be added, each with a six-course load, the addition of these courses cannot compensate for the number of classes lost by reducing the course load unless the class size increases. Hence, a course load reduction will probably occur. Schenectady's Colonial Festival '85 February 2-9 Sablrday,February2 •10:30 a.m.-seventy·fifth Anniversary Flag ~ising Ceremony Schen~cta~~ Boy Scout!~, CeQter City on State Street with bugler. CroWIUllll. of Sl_l~W Queen, a seruor Citizen selected in a drawing sponsored by the Annie Schaffer Seruor Citizens Center. •11:00 a.m.-schenectady City School student!~ will arrive in Center City to light one torch, completing opening ceremonies. . . •1-2 p.m.-Achilles Figure Skating Club will present an tce show at Center City. Free. • ~p.m.-Public Skating, Center City. Free. • 8:00 p.m.-Proctor's presents Martha Schlamme, the internationally acclaimed cabaret singer. Tickets include wine and. cheese at $15, $10, and $7.50. Call Proctor's 346-6204. Sunday, February 3 • Noon-5 p.m.-Schenectady Police Department open house sponsored by Dep~rtment 3!'d Police Benevolent Assn. Tours suitable for families, movies and demonstrations. Police headquarters, corner Lafayette and Liberty Streets. o Noon-Schenectady Winter Sports Club Cross Country Ski Stampede. Weather per- mitting this race of 2'h miles begins at the Golf Course Cl~b House, Oregon A ~en~e. • Noon-5 p.m.-Faddegon Nursery will offer wagon rides m !he Stocka:de begmrung at the Schenectady YWCA, 44 Washington Ave. Small fee to benefit restoration of Lawrence the Indian restoration fund. Monday,February4 , • 3:00 p.m.-Marimbist Nachiko Maekane will appear at the Mt. Pleasant Boy s Club, Seventh and Webster. ~~~y~F~::fi·! Pharmacy and Mike's Pizza Adobe deliver a special package by ~o~se ~i cart to Mayor Johnson at City Hall. Sponsored by Central State Street Mer- ~~· .m.-Marimbist Nachiko Maekane will.give a conceFt at Proctor'~ as part of the AHiliak Artists Program. Admission $2 or $1 With sales receipt from any City store. Wednesday, February 6 • · t th ..,.ty f • 11·00 am -Qfficials from the U.S. Department of Housmg will presen e ...,I o Sch~necu;dy with a national award at a press conference at 123-127 ~flY ~treet for the City's Cash Management Information System in the Rental Rehabilitation Program. Public invited. t 'b t d • 7:30 p.m.-schenectady Arts Council will crown \Rex\ the person who has conn u e the most to the arts in the community in the past year at the Sche1_1ectady Mus~um, Nott Terrace Heights. Music by Jamie's Duo. Colonial Costumes optional. Donation $5 for reception. Tbursday,February7 ha k sta · J 1m • 2 & 7 p.m.-Proctor's Theater will present Drwns Along the Mo w . rrmg o Ford, Claudette Colbert, and Henry Fonda. ~av~::~okson, WGY personality Harry Downie !ffid New.York St_ate Trooper Bill Clans will ride on horseback to Albany commemorating the nde of SlDl~n Sc~er­ merhorn to Albany on this 295th anniversary of the Schen~ctady Massacr~, Will deliver greetings to Albany Mayor Thomas Whalen on the 3~ anruversary of ~e ~ty of f!ba;Y· • 7·30 m -Banquet Schenectady County Conunuruty College to benefi~ e .res ora. on ~ rcfr· s~tue of Lawrence the Indian. Call346-7474 or the Schenectady Histoncal Soctety for tickets. ~~~~~~~~=S~ftball Tournam~nt at all four softball diamonds off Duck Pond Road ~ !l~~~~:J~~ 3 ~J~:.!o~~~~J!~'tton sponsored by Linton High School to benefit Proctor's-8Theay:rYW. LinCAtonTshrtudeeens~~:J by Maize Shenandoah of the Oneida Territory of • 10 a.m. p.m. . Iroquois dancers, siongers and sdi~aker.at 1 • ;~~~~s weapons and accessories of the •-10 a.m.-5 p.m.-Alan Cross, scusswn o ' ~1:::t;;~:::;:;~~.~~~We~ .. ~~~~e:~r:~~-~~!~~~'iiro:t::m footrace through Sch 8 enectadyth stotcc~i·Sq 8 = ~~~~:~~~~g project benefits the •1·00pm-YWCA ug-a- ona · vWCA'~ p~ogramsfor Families~ V:iolence: Smith St. entrance. •1-Q p.m.- Center City. dFreCoe pubtylic~ch~ka~~ry present!~ \Tales of Colonial Schenec- • 2:30 p.m.-schenecta y un u c . tady\ by Grace Thielpape. McChesney Rm., Central Libr¥fi'. t Ti k t3 $16 $12 •8:00.p.m.-TonyBennettwlll,singinconcertatProctor's ea er. c e • · • Dusk-Fireworks in Veteran sPark. AvaDable all week . · \ b N i1 s· at the • Schenectady Civic Players present \I Ought to Be m Pictures Y e unon Playl10use l2SouthChurchSt. Bp.m. 332-2081. F · 10 • Schen~dy Museum will present exhibit!~ on the history of Schenectady. Tues.- n. a.m.-5 p.m., Sat. & Sun. noon-5 p.m. • F . _,_ f th F . ... f • Stockade tours by appointment. Well infonned members Of the n~wo !> • e nenu:o o the Stockade will conduct wa1king tours for small groups in the Histone District. Call Mrs. J.W. Joyce, 825 Centl'al Parkway. D'Andrea downplayed this reduction stating that while \some modest reductions\ ;will occur, he believes that curriculum will continue to be rich. These changes will be \more than offset by the in- crease in the quality of professors' insturction. '' One student, John Rusnica, recognized some of these ad- vantages in lightening the course load, but believed that there are also some negative results that must be considered. As he stated, \There ate not enough course options now. In several departments majors have problems choosing their courses because of the limited courses available. Instead, maybe even more faculty should be hired or courses could be revamped.\ Another student, Shawne McCord, cited another negative result--an increase in the class size. Sbe believes that one of Union's good points is its relatively small class size. Decreasing the course load will, according to McCord, lead to larger classes and this will be detrimental to the College. -- CoC By MAUREEN COLEMAN Members of the Committee on Committees are enthusiastic about new developments which are proposed to take place over winter term according to Sue Brand, vice-president of ad- ministration. She hopes that the CoC will be considered \more than just a bogus bureaucratic organization\ in the future. The CoC is responsible for committee selection, over- seeing and evaluating clubs and committees, and reviewing applications for new clubs. Junior representative to the Student Forum, Dave Marin, hopes that in the next two terms, CoC will be able to fulfill its responsibilities more suc- cessfully than it has in the past: \Through various efforts the CoC is attempting to make student clubs and committees more effective and useful to the campus community as a whole.\ Brand has reevaluated and restructured the CoC's ap- proach to the clubs and com- mittees it supervises; the most notable change, proposed in an amendment to the bylaws, is the establishment of The Club Status Report, an alternative to the traditional seventh week report. The CoC hopes that with the Bishop .Speaks at St. Joh,n's BY PETERMOHR Staff On Sunday, January 27, the Church of St. John the Evangelist was honored by the presence of Bishop Howard Hubbard at the 7:30 P.M. mass. The Church was filled with Union College students and their families as well as some administrators and faculty members. The mass was also attended by President and Mrs . Morris and Hugh Nevin, Union's Protestant Chaplain. In his homily, Bishop Hub- bard spoke .of four principles which a Catholic shoW.d use to guide his or her life~ First, Catholics should be aware of the needs of the poor and the suf- fering and should reach out to them to provide co.mfort. Bishop Hubbard mentioned that it is only through the awareness of, and response to, the needs of others that Catholics can find fulfillment and the meaning of life. The second principle is that of sharing the teachings of the New Testament with those around us. This aspect is par..: ticularly important in today's society which has seen a break- down in traditional relation- ships which once provided moral and spiritual support. Catholics must also be community builders, the Bishop believes, as a strong com- munity or parish will be able to handle many_ of today's social problems. Bishop Hubbard mentioned that in Latin America, many parishes have organized groups of ten-to- fifteen people who discuss mutual problems and the relevancy of Catholic doctrine to their lives. Through these groups, Catholics find support through one another and perhaps gain a better understanding of the world around them. Bishop Hubbard called for the organization of similar groups · in the U.S .. Already, there is a program known as RENEW whose purpose is much the same as its southern coun- terpart. The fourth principle for Catholics is that they .should develop a personal relationship with Hod. Bishop Hubbard stated that the primary way in which this can be achieved is through ,prayer. Only through prayer will Catholics be able to achieve peace and understand their own existence. Citing the late theologian Karl Rahner, Bishop Hubba:rd mentiened that the only Catholics in the future, will be those who have had an experience with God; such an experience can only be attained through prayer. Bishop Hubbard expressed concern about the lack of prayer in the daily lives of many Catholics. He is also disappointed with the disagreements which many Catholics have with the Church on issues such as abortion and consumerism. He is worried about the. growing numbers of Catholics who have broken away from the Church and Who have alienated themselves from religion altogether. At a reception afterward in the Dutch Hollow Pub, Bishop Hubbard was presented with a book about Union's history as well as several small gifts. He mentioned that he is impressed with today's college students. He feels that they are more mature than their predecessors and m9re career- conscious. The only problem with this latter aspect is that in building a career, many people may concentrate only on the business dimension of their work. The human dimension will be all but forgotten. Perhaps more important than achieving financial success is building a strong family and establishing lasting relation· ships with others. Bishop Hubbard enjoyed his visit to Union and looks forward to further contact with the College. Expands Duties new report, clubs will be en- couraged to turn in their reports sooner. She adds, \it's not the point to kick the clubs out of business. We just want to get them thinking.'' Brand expects the report would facilitate communication between the CoC and clubs and increase club awareness as well. She hopes that clubs will be able to gain strength, especially .an- ticipating the disarray that will be caused by next year's con- struction of the new Student Center. Clubs which do not turn in a Club Status Report will be placed on \CoC Conditional Status\ and must provide an explanation and report or face an automatic budget freeze. Seeing this policy as an ef- fective force in motivating the CoC recognized groups, the Forum plans to be even stricter in the future. However, Brand pointed out that \we're only students formulating policy here . . . We're in the ex- perimental stages now, but we hope to build some kind of a foundation for the years to come.\ Marin explained that the CoC is making efforts to ensure that the committees in particular are not overlooked and do not turn into obsolete entities. In Continued on page ,4

the ~un- for ard the hat an an of of lso ny of en ho in a is ir a p 0 0 e CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1985 Page3 With. Proposed Budget Cuts .. II> • ,. Students May Be Slashed (CPS)~If rwnors about the \About 10 percent of our aid 1986 Education Department population would be adversely budget prove true, one of every affected by the $4,000 cap,\ four students who apply for estimates J,ohn Kladk of federal financial aid won't get Western Washington Univer- it. sity. Students from middle-income . ''And I was kind of surprised families and those attending to hear the $30,000 income limit private or out-of-state schools would affect about 50 percent of would suffer most under the our GSL student population,'·' he proposals, financial aid experts adds. forecast. Klacik condemns the Trial balloons sent up by the proposals as \a direct attack on Office of Management and what I consider the principles of Budget (OMB) in early January financial aid: provide students signal the Reagan ad- access to higher education, ministration may try to limit encourage choice between students to no more than $4,000 institutions, and acknowledge a year in financial aid, and the persistance to get through disqualify families that make four years of college.·~ more than $30,000 a year from '~Part .of my concerns are the the Guaranteed Student Loan dichotomy,\ he adds. \We talk (GSL) and Pell grant about cutting access and choice programs. at the same time we talk about The budget proposals should excellence in education. If cuts reach Congress in February. need to be made, I've heard Congress will then accept, more intelligent proposals. that reject or approve figures .of its would target funds more own. precisely.\ It could be months before Indeed, the OMB may make Congress and the President other drastic proposals, ACE's actually agree on funding Saunders warns. figures. Educators expect the OMB to \If the proposals are ac- try again to eliminate $412 cepted-of course, we hope they million in Supplemental Grants, won't be-it means a serious $76 million in State Student restriction to graduate study Incentive Grants and $i7 loan aid and to all kinds of million in graduate fellowships undergraduate aid,\ predicts for women and minorities, he Charles Saunders of the says. American Council on Education Another recycled OMB plan (ACE). wemld freeze next year's Financial aid directors education budget, WWU's around the country agree the Klacik reports. proposals could hurt needy and Meanwhile, the Department middle-income students. of Education, burdened with ''A $30,000 income cap would changing leadership and an have a significant impact on our uncertain future, is reviewing student population, on . a all the proposals, but officials tremendous amoWlt of middle- refuse comment. income families,\ s~ys .EPill.ond \We ,know wh&t the ad- Vignoul, University of Oregon ministration bas proposed,\ a financial aid director. department spokesman says. Under current rules, students ''But we can't comment until from families earning mon Congress is' in session and we than $30,000 a year must pass \ get our programs over there to \needs test\ to get feqeral aid. weigh them against the ad- Now the administration wants ministration's.\ to cut off such students Education experts hope regardless of need. Reagan's recent nomination of \Without the loans and William Bennett to replace grants, their options will be outgoing Education Secretary limited and this obviously will Terrel Bell is a reprieve from have a detrimental effect on our the administration's plan to enrollment,\ Vignoul adds. dismantle the department. \As many as 25 percent of the Whether Congress accepts students we process loans for those plans, of course, is open to wouldn't qualify with a $30,000 debate. income ceiling,\ claims Taft \Some (OMB) proposals are Benson, Texas A and M's sp- similar to those made when okesman. Reagan was first elected,\ A \It would eliminate a great and M's Benson comments. munber of students who might \Congress rejected them then, otherwise benefit from higher and I hope 'Congress continues education,\ he continues. its foresight and sensitivity to \Students might not get an students needing money for education because of lack of education.\ resources.\ Despite Benson's memory, Benson admits the $4,000 aid Congress did in fact pass many cap might not affect students at Reagan student aid cuts in 1981. moderately-priced institutions, It tended to resist more cuts in but students at private or out-of- subsequent years. state schools, who usually \Bi-partisan support in receive more than $4,000 per Congress for financial aid has year; would have to find other been strong for a long time,\ financing or other schools. Oregon's Vignoul agrees. \.I f\'~~=~. J All Interested in 1~ • k• th• I • ~ wor 1119 on 1s year s I I FRESHMAN RECORDI M I I please attend Clll · organization~! 1 1 meeting on February 5 at 7 p.m. 1n 1 1 Strauss Lounge., ~,~ I We need people for ads, photo, I ~ hope their attitude won't change significantly. \Everyone says there's a need for excellence in higher education,\ he says. \This flies in the face.of what Reagan says. You can't take away the op- portunity for a significant number of students to get an -- education and expect to im· prove the face of higher education.\ Across the board domestic cuts will slice some aid dollars, ACE's Saunders concludes, but \we have as good a chance of beating it as we've had in the last couple ,of years. We'U face some cuts, but not the drastic meat-ax cuts the administration will propose.\ Journalist Carl Bernstein lectured at Union last Wednesday on \The Press Since Watergate.\ ··Bernstein Pushes Press By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editer-in.Chief On Wednesday, January23, at 8 p.m., Union's Speakers' Foruni presented reporter Carl Bernstein to some 100 listeners in SS016. Originally scheduled for Memorial Chapel, the lec- ture was moved because of low ticket sales. Those people that did attend the lecture, however, were not disappointed. Bernstein proved to be a very personable and capable speaker. His topic, \The Press Since Watergate\ was a.n interesting and thought- provoking one. Bernstein is one half of the Woodward and Bernstein duo who brought the Watergate scandal to the attention of the nation over a decade ago. Their work .. rec.eiv;ed . num,erous. journalism awards · including the Pulitzer Prize in 1973. They recorded their story in the book All The President's Men. The lecture itself included some recollections of the press' involvement in Watergate as well as the repercussions that ensued. Bernstein began his talk by discussing the direction the press has taken since Watergate. He stated that \The press in this country has rather rt:lpeatedly ... engaged in what might be termed an orgy of self congratulation. No attitude could be more unjustified.\ As for the Watergate reporting, Bernstein noted that the process he and Woodward followed \was the most basic kind of empirical police reporting ... that you first learn as a cub reporter . . . we knocked on an awful lot of doors.\ Working on the metropolitan desk, not with the prestigious national staff, of the Washington Post, Woodward and Bernstein were not privy to many high level sources. \We started from the bottom and we worked our way up,· said Bern· stein. Goverrtment secretaries and clerks were, at first their primary extraordinary.\ barred from witnessing The response of the Nixon American troops going into White House to the 150 stories battle (as seen) in Grenada,\ that Woodward and Bernstein noted Bernstein. wrote about the Watergate • activities for six months after the break in, was key to Bern- stein's argument: \Its response was to make the conduct of the press the issue in Watergate not the conduct of the president and his men.\ Even \today added Bernstein, \we have a president who routinely blames the press for his and the nation's \The press in this country has rather repeatedly. . . engaged .in what might be termed an orgy of seH- . congratulations.\ . . ~ . aBernstein dificulties and whose ad- ministration has attempted to impose information policies that even the Nixon ad- ministration were never to consider.\ As for the Nixon ad- ministration, it would counter Woodward and Bernstein's stories by using a technique the W~shington Post called non- denial denial. The ad- ministration would attack the Post for character assassination and the like \but never specifically woqld it attempt to contradict the facts in the stories that we (Bernstein and Woodward) were writing.\ This tactic proved quite ef- fective for the administration. It illustrates the \Nixon ad- ministration's contempt for the press ... and it's that contempt passed onto hundreds of public officials today, including the current President of the United States.\ This is seen in Reagan's \attempts to limit the ability of the press to report the truth. For the first time in our history reporters would be What has resulted said Bernstein, is that \the Reagan administration and its allies in Congress have recognized the terrible fact that there's going to be no public outcry in this country if our ability to report the truth is circumscribed. That legacy of contempt for the president has not been passed on to millions and millions of Americans to the point where a Gallup study . . . shows that fewer than one fourth of the American people have any real degree of faith in the accuracy of what they read in their newspapers.\ The Nixon ad- ministration is at the core of this distrust. ·Nevertheless-, Bernstein. believes, \Reporting is the beSt obtainable version of the truth. The really significant trends in American journalism have not been toward a conunittment . . . to that best obtainable version of the truth . . . but rather . . . to the elevation of gossip and celebrity jour- nalism.'' Bernstein feels that though such columns have helped support the future of many of our newspapers their success has really been at the expense of our own primary function, serious reporting. \One of the consequences . . . of this un- dermining of the profession of journalism is going to be a less free press in America . . . because truth is so often sacrificed in these columns,'' said Bernstein. Bernstein concluded with the idea that today's journalists' \failures are of passivity, ... and promotion is of the mediocre. It's time to get back to the basics; time to get back to the best obtainable version of the truth.\ The annual meeting for all terms abroad programs in the 1985- 86 academic year will :take place Tuesday, February 5 at 4:30 p.m. in SS016. This is the only time students will be able to meet former participants in the various programs as well as faculty directors of past programs. Scheduled terms for next year will be England--York or Bath, France, Italy, or Japan in the Fall Term and Israel, Spain, Greece or a special term in Barbados in the winter, Austria in spring of 1986 and Socialized Medicine in the summer. Applications for all terms are now being accepted. Forms and information are available in H U211, the Terms Abroad office.

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, January 3/, 1985 >- :>(. <II c:: E Ill ~ > .... .... 10 ...J > .Q 0 .... 0 .s:: a '·' ,·*' /' / Professor Baker, CHUC dire.ctor, discussed the availabH.ity of C HUC computers for students. Parking Spaces Diminish By JOANNE McANDREWS Staff For the past few weeks, the Student Affairs Council (SAC) has been discussing . the problem of on-campus parking. Mary Phillips, a member of SAC, a subcommittee of the Student Forum, explained that the committee has discussed the issue with Jack Hill of Campus Operations but did not reach any definite solution. Several proposals were made, including color-coding car stickers by class and the strict enforcement of allowing only faculty to park in areas designated for faculty parking. Phillips stated, \When it really comes down to it, there are just too many more cars on campus than spaces.\ other existing spaces._.. Fifty spaces will be gained in the parking lot behind Riclunond, and 50 spaces will also be .gained at the parking lot by Raymond and Potter Houses. However, 35 spaces will be lost due to construction at Campus Operations; 42 spaces will be lost behind Alwnni Gym after the construction takes place; 26 spaces will be lost behind Carnegie; and 16 spaces will be lost at the Day Care Center. Computer Needs Increase She presented some statistics on the nwnbet of cars. and spaces available. During fall tenn, there were 2054 resident students of which 600 students had registered cars; of these 600, 150 were fr.eshmen. In the beginning of winter term, 61 more freshmen will have cars on campus. The problem is that there are only 305 spaces available on campus for student parking. It has been. estimated that Union receives 950· visitors per week on campus...:an average of 190 per day .. More spaces are needed for these people as well as for the 142 ( current' figure) full time cormnuter students, who presently use the Rich- mond lot. Phillips conunented, \Unfortunately we can do very little to add spaces on campus, short of adding a three-tiered parking garage.\ Continued frompage l . user may not have access to the Rainbow arotmd midterm or· finals weeks. Of course, the thesis student is allowed to purchase a Vax account for word processing at $25, with unlimited access, but the Rainbows are seemingly easier to use and free of charge. As for CHUC, about 150 students use the facility in a given semester, 20 to 30 of which, said Baker, are thesis students. However, only Division I, Humanities majors, are given approval to use CHUC if they learn how to use it properly. Again word processing has been expanded, but also limited to only certain people. \At Union,\ said Holt, \there are 111 public access terminals or microcomputers. Of this, 86 are open for use by all students and 25 are limited in some manner. This compares with 21 public access terminals or microcomputers in 1982, with 9 open for use by all students and 12 limited in some manner.\ Obviously this is a substantial increase in available word processing facilities, but is it enough to support the College's r.eeds? The College's \goal added Holt, \is a 12 to 1 ratio, that is, one public access unit for each 12 regularly enrolled students. Few schools have achieved that level of support. Union should be at that point by year 5 of the Five Year Plan.\ Again, this is quite an achievement. But for now, the College has actually created a demand for something, word processing, yet it cannot meet the wants of the campus in this matter. Word processing ac- counts are sometimes given out to those students who happen to be in the \right\ division. With some of the campus community believing students should have access to word processors and other officials thinking otherwise, the student is caught in the crossfire. Classes such as CS130 and CS34 are pushed onto the Rainbows which leaves even fewer available tetminals open for word processing to other students. In essence, the system is unfair. Even with the allotted 20 Rainbows in the works, the demand will possibly not be met. D'Andrea explains, \We're in a period of rapid transition and growth.\ The rules of today will probably not hold true tomorrow. But again, the student feels the pinch. He was encouraged to use word processors yet with the onset of the 1984-85 academic .year, he was told that the Hewlett Packard ( HP) was not available to him any longer, the Vax would have to do. Anyone who spent time learning HP word processing commands would then have to learn the Vax commands. The question is not of quality, but rather con- venience. It is not only the student who is getting shifted around, however. The College's faculty and staff also vie for the computer's word processing capability. To help address the question of campus word processing, along with other computer areas at the College, an Academic Affairs Council ( AAC) Sub-Council on Academic Computing has recently been formed. Part of this group's charge, according to its formal proposal. is to \establish campus-wide principles, goals, and guidelines meeting the computing needs of the academic program.\ The sub-council is \composed \We (the College) should not provide word processing to students.\ It holds a \low priority for computer usage.\ -D'Andrea of one faculty member from each of the four divisions, one of them must be from the AAC, two students, cmd three ex- officio members: the director of computer services (Wayne Holt), the assistant to the vice president for administration (Tom Warger), and a member of the library faculty (Bruce Connolly).\ Professor David Hannay, chairman of the computer science department (division IV), will chair the sub- council while Professor Sharon Gmelch (division II, Professor D. Hayes (Division III), and Professor M. Tober (Division I) will represent their division in the group. The sub-council held its first . organizational meeting on January 8. At that time, it was decided that each division representative would ask their respective divisions for items that should be placed on the sub- council's agenda. Professor Hannay has received upwards of 20 suggestions at this time. He states that although he does not wish to discuss the sub- council's findings until it meets for further discussions, he does know that \word processing is definitely high on the (sub- council's) agenda.\ Word processing has become a valuable resource on the campus, thanks to the College's desire that it be so. \Union is probably a lot further along than most liberal arts colleges\ in this respect, said Baker. ·However, with such a quick increase in demand for word processing it has become vir- tually impossible to satisfy everyone's needs. Union has not reached the point where it requires its students to buy their own personal computers nor is it likely that the College will ever do so. Nevertheless, students buying their own word processing units is not an event of the future, rather it is hap- pening now. At Vassar, many students use their own personal computers. It is not unlikely, therefore, that the College will make personal computer ownership very desirable in the ensuing years. Union has a growing demand for word processing that it cannot quell by limiting access to existing terminals. The result is, and will continue to be, a lot of students who want to use a particular college word processor, but eannot. The student will, therefore, have to buy his own system or find some other means beyond the Callege. CoC. & • Continued from page 2 addition, the CoC hopes to re- establish those committees ·which are no longer , active. Spring selection is crucial, as the CoC must appoint ap- plicants to corrunittee positions. Marin believes \our biggest concern with committees is that people know what the positions are and want to be involved.\ In this vein, Brand issued a survey to all appointed com- mittee members. The results of this survey will be compiled in a booklet which will describe each appointee's position. In addition, the committee positions will he well publicized to provide a l~rge turnout of informed applicants. Brand plans to have applications available by the second week of spring term, so the entire selection process could be completed by midterms. This would allow the appointees to get acquainted with their positions before the following fall term. _ There are 556 cars owned: by faculty members and staff registered to park on campus tietween8:30a.m. and 4.:30 p.m. The number of available spaces to faculty members and staff is 339. Phillips implied that the number of faculty-registered cars is misleading since many faculty members have all their cars registered. Due to lack of spaces, 55 facUlty members are presently parking their cars off campus on Union Avenue. The upcoming construction on campus will create some new parking spaces and take up The SAC has turned the issue over to Jack Hill, who in turn will take his data to the ad- ministration. There is a possibility that freshmen will be prohibited from hav·ing cars on campus starting next fall. This solution would keep freshmen on campus, but it would make more spaces available to upperclassmen, faculty and visitors. Freshman Representative Election Runoff Friday, Feb. 1 in Carnegie Hall Your Vote Counts!! Computer Dedication ,. Union's new co~puters Alvin? Simon, Theodore and Tardis were dedicated last Wednesday, J~nuary 23rd. Pictured here at the Open House are President John Morris and Wayne Holt, director of computer services. 1/) Ill .\!! .s:: u <II c .s:: Q. ro 0 >- .0 0 0 .s:: Q.

Page4 CONCORDJENSIS, J-11n.u,ary 31, 1985 / Professor Baker, CHUC director, discussed the availability of <;HUC computers for students. Parking Spaces Diffiillish By JOANNE McANDREWS Staff For the past few weeks, the Student Affairs Council (SAC) has been discussing . the problem of on..campusparking. Macy Phillips, a member of SAC, a subcomniittee of the Student Forum, explained that the committee has discussed the issue with Jack. Hill of Campus. Operations but did not reach any definite solution. Several proposals were made,. including color-coding car stickers by class and the strict enforcement of alloWing only faculty to park in areas designated for faculty parking. Phillips stated, \When it really comes down to it, there are just too many more cars on campUB ·than spaces.'' other existing spaces.,..., Fifty spaces will ·be gained in the parking lot behiml Richmond, and 50• spaces will also be gamed at the parking lot by Raymond and Potter Houses. HQwever, 35 spaces will be lost due to construction at Campus Operations; 42 spaces will be lost :behind Alurnrd Gym after the construction takes place.; 26 spaces will be lost behind Carnegie; and 16 spaces will be lost at the Day Care Center. Computer Needs Increase She presented some sta ti:;tics on the number of cars and spaces available. During fall term, there were 2054 resident students of which 600 students had registered cars; ·of these 600, 150 were fr.eshmen. In the beginning of winter term, .61 more freshmen will have cars on campus. The problem is that there are only 305 spaces available on campus for student parking. . It has been. estimated that Union receives 950 visitors per weekon campus_:an average of 190 per day. More spaces are needed for these people as well as for the 142 (current'figl,l.re) full time commuter students, who presently use the Rich- mond lot. Phtllips commented, ''Unfortunately we can do very little to add spaces on campus, Continued from page 1 . user may not have access to the Rainbow around midterm or finals weeks. Of course, the thesis student is allowed to purchase a· Vax account for word processing at $25, with unlimited access, but ~he Rainbows are seemingly easier to use and free of charge. As for CHUC, about 150 students use the facility in a given semester, 20 to 30 of which, said Baker, are thesis students. However, only Division I, Humanities majors, are given approval to use CHUC if they learn how to use it properly. Again word processing has been expanded, but also limited to only certain people. \At Union,\ said Holt, \there are 111 public access terminals or microcomputers. Of this, 86 are open for use by all students and 25 are limited in some manner. This compares with 21 public access terminals or microcomputers in 1982, with 9 open for use by all students and 12 limited in some manner.\ Obviously this is a su~antial increase in available. word · processi!lg facilities, but is it enough to support the College's r.eeds? The College's \goal added Holt, \is a 12 to 1 ratio, that is, one public access unit for each 12 regularly enrolled students. Few schools have achieved that level of support. Union should be at that point by year 5 of the Five Year Plan.\ Again, this is quite an achievement. But for now,. the C-ollege has actually created a demand for something, word processing, yet it cannot meet the wants of the campus in this matter. Word proctJssing ac· counts are sometimes given out to those students who happen to be in the \right\ division. With some of the campus community believing students should have access to word processors and other officials thinking otherwise, the student is caught in the crossfire. Classes such as CS130 and CS34 are pushed onto the Rainbows which leaves even fewer availa~le terminals open for word processing to other students. In essence, the system is unfair. Even with the allotted 20 Rainbows in the works, the demand will possibly not be met. D'Andrea explains, \We're in a period of rapid transition and growth.\ The rules of today will probably not hold true tomorrow. But again, the student feels the pinch. He was encouraged to use word processors yet with the onset of the 1984-85 academic .. year, he was told that the Hewlett Packard ( HP) was not available to him any longer, the Vax would have to do. Anyone who spent time learning HP word processing commands would then have to learn the Vax commands. The question is not of quality, but rather con- venience. It is not only the student who is getting shifted around, however. The College's faculty and staff also vie for the comp.uter's word processing capability. · To help address the question of campus word processing, along with other computer areas at the CoUege, an Academic Affairs Council (AAC) Su:b-Council on Academic Computing has recently been fol1lled. Part of this gr.oup's charge, according to its formal proposal. is to ''establish campus-wide principles, goals, and.guidelines meeting the computing needs of the academic program..~· The sub-council is \composed \We (the College) should not provide word processing tCJ students.\ It holds a ''lo-w priority for computer usage.\ -D'Andrea of one faculty member from each of the four divisions, one of them must be irom the AAC, two students, and three ex- officio members: the director of computer services (Wayne Holt}, the assistant to the vice president for administration (Tom Warger), and a member of tbe library faculty (Bruce Connolly).\ Professor David Hannay, chairman of the computer science department (division IV), will chair the sub- council while Professor Sharon Gmelch (division II, Professor D. Hayes (Division III), and Professor M. Tober (Division I) will represent their division in the group. The sub-council held its first . organizational meeting on January 8. At that time, it was decided that each division representative would ask their respective divisions for items that should be placed on the sub- council's agenda. Professor Hannay has received upwards of 20 suggestions at this time. He states that although he does not wish to discuss the sub- council's findings until it meets for further discussions, he does know that \word processing is definitely high on the (sub- council's) agenda.\ Word processing has become a valuable resource on the campus, thanks to the College's desire that it be so. ''Union is probably a lot further along than most liberal arts colleges\ in this respect, said Baker. ·However, with such a quick increase in demand for word processing it has become vir- tually impossible · to satisfy everyone'sneeds. Union has not reached the point where it requires its students to buy their own personal computers nor is it likely that the College will ever do so. Nevertheless, students buying their own Word processing units is not an event of the future, rather it is hap- pening now. At Vassar, many students use their own personal computers. It is not Wllikely, therefore, that the College will make personal computer ownership very desirable In the ensuing years. Union has a growing demand for word processing that it cannot quell by limiting access to existing terminals. The result is, and will continue to be, a lot of students who want to use a particular college word processor, but eannot. The student will, therefore, have to buy his own system or find some other means beyond the College. CoC· ••• . Continued from page 2 addition, the CoC hopes to re- establish those committees ·which are no longer . active. Spring selection is crucial, as the CoC must appoint ap- plicants to committee positions. Marin believes \'our biggest concern with committees is that people know what \the positions are and want to be involved.\ In this vein, Brand issued a survey to all appointed com- mittee members~ The results of this survey will be compiled in a booklet which will describe each appointee's position. In addition, the committee positions will be well publicized to provide a la,rge turnout of informed applicants. Brand plans to have applications available by the second week of spring term, so the entire selection process could be completed by midterms. This would allow the appointees to get acquainted with their ,positions before the following fall term. _ There are 556 cars owned by faculty members and staff registered to park on campus between 8:30a.m. and 4.:30 p.m. The number of available spaces to faculty members and staff is 339. Phillips implied that the number of faculty~registel'ed cars is misleading since many faculty members have all their cars registered. Due to lack of spaces, 55 faculty members are presently parking their cars .off campus on Union Avenue. .· The upcoming construction on campus will create some new parking spaces and take up · short of adding a three~tiered parking garage.\ The SAC has turned the issue ·over to Jack Hill, who in turn will take hiS data to the ad- ministration. There is a possibilit.Ythat freshmen will be prohibited from having cars on campus starting. next fall. This solution would keep fr.eshmen on -campus, but it would make more spaces available to upperclassmen, faculty and visitors. Freshman ' . Representative Election Runoff Friday, Feb. -1 in Carnegie HaJI Your Vote Counts!! Computer Dedication 1 ~ K .. Union's new computers Alvin, Simon, Tlieodore and Tardis were dedicated last Wednesday, January 23rd. Pictured here at the Open House are President John Morris and Wayne Holt, director of computer services. If) ro Cl :c u (JJ c: .l:: Q. ro 0 >- .D 0 ..... 0 .t::. 0.

Fifty the be by uses. ~ lost be 26 be that per ~eof are well ~nts, ~ich­ ted, ~us, ~red urn ad- a on to nd (/) ru .'0 .c u ClJ c: .c 0. ru Cl > ..0 0 ,._ 0 .c 0. CONCORDJENSJS, Januar.v 31, 1985 PageS Term Abroad in. Japan Life in Japan By TODDIMMICK communication is essential, with our new families. FEATURES Last fall a group of Union students went for the first time on a term abroad in the country of Japan. Not sure what to expect or even how to prepare, these students hoped that they would learn something about the strange place that had accepted them for four months of their lives. As the initiating program of Union Terms Abroad in East Asia, everyone e:x;pected· quite a different ex- perience from the terms in Europe . .Indeed it was. A unique culture beckoned, and once one learned a little, it seemed, and still does seem, all important to learn more. The people, th~ city streets, the mountains of Japan Sure, we appreciated classes, but, like everyone else, our desire was to get out and meet people. At Kansai University there are . 6,000 Japanese students, and there are a lot of potential friends in a group like that. We joined activities, Martial Arts clubs, the Inter- national Relations group, the basketball team and a few dozen other clubs. When one sees that their Ping-Pong club has 2Vz-hour daily practices that Include a four-mile run, it becomes apparent that Japanese students are very serious about their clubs. Each The Golden Temple of Kinkaku-Ji in Kyoto · group was eager to accept us, in spite of the fact that we could not speak a word of their language. Club and classes are basically what goes on at school. Perhaps I should Letters From Japan have that effect. · We were all students at the same university. The campus became the place to meet other foreigners as well as Japanese students. Classes took up a large part of the day. Everything that had anything to do with the Japanese, from Buddhism to language, was offered. What was strange was that sitting in class suddenly became .something that people didn't mind. (Well, at least not as much) Kyoto, an ancient city one hour away by train, began to gain color and life through history and art. Economics courses added new respect and understanding for the for- midable skills of Japanese businessmen. Japanese language, grumbled about but appreciated, began to help students communicate. where . mention the walks filled with bicycles and scooters, the cafeteria (where everything was fried), and the bookstore where one could pick up some seaweed or dried squid, jusffor a snack. (Altogether, school took up a lot of our~ime; but not a lot of our thoughts.) . Ask any of us what the best part of Japan was, and we'll probably say the homestay. Many of the families didn't speak English, and most of us went from Union with the ex~ tensive Japanese. vocabulary preparation of how to say hello and mispronounce it). It takes a special kind of people to take in students like us, and to make us Continued on page 8 By D1ANE PAVACIC September Dear Mom and Dad: I met my Japanese family today! They speak no English and don't want to learn so I guess I'll be forced to learn Nihongo! We had a huge lunch, on the floor of course, which, I must admit, was only mildly appetizing. It consisted of rice cakes with red beans, tofu, rice, several varieties of seaweed, and sashimi. (raw fish minus the rice). Of course, I tried everything-!· didn't want to insult them on the first day. Dinner tonight was also fun. We all sat around and said nothing. Actually, my okaasan (mother) and I were forever East Meets West The students returning from the term abroad in Japan present: The Japan Experience Come Learn aboufthe people, the culture, the life ... A Land of Paradoxes Tradition and Technology When: Thursday, February 7th at 7:30 p.me Where: Fox Lounge • Who: For anyone interested i·n learning· about a different culture . thumbing our dictionaries, pointing and nodding as if we understood each other. Tomorrow's another school day. I have to ride my little no- .speed bicycle through the rice paddy to the train which is imma<;ulately clean and ef- ficient. From the train I catch a i bus that drops me in front of the school. By the way, I jomed the~­ Karate Club! ! The rest of the school unfortunately knows, too-the Japanese girls in the club all clapped when I came out to join them. I hope they still clap a month fro:rp now if I survive. They treat their club like a religion. Yesterday a bunch of us went to Osaka, the second largest city, and visited the Osaka Castle. It was quite a sight-a huge city with a castle built in 1583 smack in the middle. We met many Japanese who were trying desparately to converse with us in English. We, of course, were trying to speak in Japanese. What resulted was a lot of incoherent babble. A few days have gone by since I wrote last. Yest·erday was my tanjobi (birthday)! Yes, they celebrate birthdays in Japan. I received some very nice gifts but most notable were the ones I received from my Japanese sisters who are of high school age. Kaori gave me a cutesy Mickey Mouse mirror and a Henry the Cow letter holder. Koyori gave me a Gerry the Giraffe ceramic wind chime. At school the girls walk around with Tom and Jerry pencil cases, Mickey Mouse combs and bags. It's no wonder Disneyland opened in Tokyo! ! About breakfast: We eat at 8 a.m. sharp every day. I eat a meal the size of dinner in the morning. Like every meal, I do nothing and about ten small dishes are put in front of me, each containing something different-rice (that's not so different anymore), miso soup, fish, seaweed and tofu. I've also noticed that my okaasan does everything around the house and insists upon doing so. I made the mistake of doing my own dishes the other morning while she was doing the laun- dry. Afterwards she said to me, \Damay\ which means \Do not.\ I thought.she'd be pleased but as I was told by one of my professors, I insulted her by doing \her\ job. \Her job\ is very important and by doing my own dishes I was minimizing the importance of ''her job.\ October Today I went to my sister's school for their Culture Day Festival. The day culminated in the gymnasium where a big concert was to take place. However, imagine a huge gym filled with Japanese and-me. I think· I was more a spectacle than the concert! ! Everyone was practicing their English from way across the room! ! \How about some cohee?\ (coffee) Sometimes I wonder if it's really 1984 here. Every night I hear a certain trumpet tune and that, I am told, is the sweet potato man coming around the neighborhood selling potatoes. Continued on page 8 Age Old Customs Skill of Time From ancient days, the Japanese have loved time that constantly moves and changes. They are a nation who have preferred to live not in cold, frozen eternity but in time which burgeons, grows, ripens and pulsates. They have always loved to travel, appreciated the taste of food in season, admired the sound and rhythm of wind and water, and been fascinated by the burst of fireworks and the profoundness of ensuing darkness. Traditional artisans have been alert especially to changes in nature and made such things as would live and breathe in the changes. Think of those skilled men and women cultivating malt, putting sake and soy seasoning hishio to sleep, maturing lacquer, spinning thread produced by worms, or making vessels by allowing clay and fire to play with each other. When used well and long, these vessels enriched their own lives, and pillars that were put up continued to mature for the length of time the trees grew on son. People also became ac- customed to man-made tinle and led a life of punctuality in the time measured by pen- dulums and bells. Craftsmen excelled in mechanical skills and merchants were strict about the deadline of their contracts. Natural time indicated by stars following their courses and man-made time scored by machines. The Japanese still love these two kinds of time and, within their framework, spur old arts and crafts to take new leaps. Dear friends, do you not hear quiet murmurs of casks and ticking of the old . yagura clock even in those life- engineering and electronics laboratories? \(Reprinted from the Suntory Brewery Handicraft Festival, Kyoto, Japan.)

the be by lost be after 26 ~hind be that s per of ~ are ~ure) very turn ad- a llbe e to Ul It! Cl ..c u Ql c: ..c 0. It! 0 >- .D ~ ..c 0. CONCORDIENSIS, .lanuar.v 11, 1985 PageS Term Abroad in. Japan L •.t • J\. ••e tn . • _a pan By TODDIMMICK communication is essential, with our new families. FEATURES Last fall a group of Union students went for the first time on a tertn abroad in the country of Japan. Not sure What to expect or even how to prepare, these_ students hoped that they would learn something about the strange place that had accepted them for four months of their lives. As the init.iating program of Union Terms Abroad in East Asia, everyone expected quite a different ex- perience from the ter.ms· in Europe,Jndeed it was. A unique culture beckoned, and once one learned a little, it seemed, and still does fjeem, all important to learn more. The people., the .city Sure, we appreciated classes, but, like everyone else, our desire was to get out and meet people. At Kansai University there are 6,000 Japanese students, and there are a lot of potential friends in a group like that.. We joined activities, Martial Arts clubs, the Inter- national Relat:ions group, the basketball team and a few dozen other clubs. When one sees that their Ping:..Pong club has 21f2·hour daily pr·actices that fuclude a four-mile run, it becomes apparent that Japanese students are very serious about their clubs. Each The GoldenTemple of Kinkaku-Ji i.n Kyoto - streets, the mountains of Japan · ~oupwaseager to accept us, in spite .of the fact that we could not speak a word . of their language. Club and classes are basically what goes on at schooL Perhaps I should Letters From Japan have that effect. · We were all students at the same university. The campus became the place to meet other foreigners as. well as Japanese students. Classes took up a large part of the day . Everything tnathad .anything to do witb the Japanese,. from Buddhism to language, was offered. What was strange was that sitting in. cl~ss suddenly became something that people didn't mind. (Well, at least not as much) Kyoto, an ancient city one hour away by tr.aifi, .began to gain color and life through history and . art. Economics courses added new respect and understanding for the for- midable skills of. Japanese businessmen. Japanese language, grumbled abo1,1t but appreciated, began to help students communicate . where . mention the walks filled with bicycles and scooters, the cafeteria (where everything was fried), and the bookstore where one coUld pick up some seaweed or dried sqUid, jusffor a snack. (Altogether, school toak up a lot of ourtime; but not a lot of oilr thoughts.) ~ A,sk any of us what the best . part of Japan was, and we'll probably say the homestay. Many of the families didn't speak English, and most of us went from Union with the ex- tensive Japanese. vocabulary preparation of how to say hello and. mispronounce it). It takes a special kind of people to take in students like us. and to make us Continued on page 8 <li-- .... • ByDIANEPAVACIC September Dear M~Jm and Dad: I met my Japanese family today! They speak no English and don't want to learn so I guess I'll be forced to learn Nihongo I We had a huge lunch, on the .floor o~ course, which, I must admit, was only mildly appetizing. It consisted -of rice cakes with red beans, tofu, rice, several varieties of seaweed, and .sashimi . (raw fish minus the rice). Of course, I tried everything- I· didn't want to insi.llt them on the first day. Dinner tonight was also fWI. We all sat around and said nothing. Actually, my okaasan (mother) and I were forever East Meets West The students returning from the term abroad in Japan present: The Japan Experience Come Learn about the people, the culture, the life ... A Land of Paradoxes Tradition and Technology When: Thursday, Febr·uary 7th a17:30 p .. m. Where: Fox Lounge • Who: Fo.r anyone interested h11earnlng·about a different culture • thumbing our dictionaries, Disneyland opened in Tokyo! ! pointing and nodding as .if we About breakfast: We eat at 8 understood each other. a.m. sharp every day. I eat a Tomorrow's another school meal the size of dinner in the day. I have to ride my little no- morning. Like every meal; I do speed bicycle through the rice nothing and a bout ten small paddy to the train which is dishes are put in front of me, immaGulately clean and ef- each containing something ficient. From the train I catch a I different-rice (that's not so bus that drops. me in front of the different anymore), miso soup, school. fish, seaweed and tofu. I've also By the way, I joiiled the- -noticed that my okaasan does Karate Club! ! The rest of the everything around the house school unfortunately knows, and insists upon doing so. I too-the Japanese girls in the madethe mistake of doing my club all clapped when I came own dishes the other morning out to join them. I hope they ~ill while she was doing the laun- clap a month fro:w now if I dry. Afterwards she said to me, survive. They treat their club \Damay\ which means \Do like a religion. not.\ I thought she'd be pleased Yesterday a bunch of us went but as I was told by one of my to Osaka, the second largest professors, I insulted her by city, and visited the Osaka doing \her\ job. \Her job\ is Castle. It was quite a sight-a very important and by doing my hUge city with a castle built in own dishes I was minimizing 1583 smack in the middle. We the im})9rtance of \her job.\ met many Japanese who were trying desparately to converse with us in English. We, of course, were trying to speak in Japanese. What resulted was a lot of incoherent babble. A few days have gone by since I wrote last. Yesterday was my tanjobi (birthday)! Yes, they celebrate birthdays in Japan. I received some very nice gifts but most notable were the ones I received from my Japanese sisters . who are of high school age. Kaori gave me a cutesy · Mickey Mouse mirror and a Henry the Cow letter holder. Koyori gave me a Gerry the Giraffe ceramic wind chime. At school the girls walk around with Tom and Jerry pencil cases, Mickey Mouse combs and bags. It's no wonder October Today I went to my sister's school for their Culture Day Festival. The day culminated in the gymnasium where a big concert was to take place. However, imagine a huge gym filled with Japanese and-me. I think· I was more a spectacle than the concert! ! Everyone was practicing their English from way across the room!! \How about some cohee?\ (coffee) Sometimes I wonder if it's really 1984 here. Every night I hear a certain trumpet tune and that, I am told, is the sweet potato man coming around the neighborhood selling potatoes. Continued on page 8 Age Old Customs Skill of Time From ancient days, the Japanese have loved time that constantly moves and changes. They are a natiGn who have preferred to live not in cold, frozen eternity but in time which burgeons, grows, ripens and pulsates. They have always loved to travel, appreciated the taste of food in season, admired the sound and rhythm of wind and water, and been fascinated by the burst of fireworks and the profoundness of ensuing darkness. Traditional artisans have been alert especially to changes in nature and made such things as would live and breathe in the changes. Think of those skilled men and women cultivating malt, putting sake and soy seasoning bishio to sleep, maturing lacquer, spinning thread produced by wormsj or making vessels by allowing clay and fire to play with each other. When used well and long, these vessels enriched their own lives, and pillars that were put up continued to mature for the length of time the trees grew on soil. People also became ac- customed to man-made time and led a life of pl,lllctuality in the time measured by pen- dulums and bells. Craftsmen excelled in mechanical skills and merchants were strict about the deadline of their contracts. Natural time indicated by stars following their courses and man-made time scored by machines. The Japanese still love these two kinds of time and, within their framework, spur old arts and crafts to take new leaps. Dear friends, do you not hear quiet murmurs of casks and ticking of the old . yagura clock even in those life- engineering and electronics laboratories? • (Reprinted from the Suntory Brewery Handicraft Festival, Kyoto, Japan.)

Page6 Applications will be received until February 18, 1985 for Union's German University Exchange Program sponsored by the Federation of German-American clubs. Candidates should be sophomores . with a working knowledge of German. One or two students wiU be chosen to participate in the program. For .more information and application forms, contact , Anton Warde in HU 211. • GO-GARNO -GO Union Ho~key vs. Merrimack Feb. 2nd, -7:30 p~m. Don't forget to wear GARNET!! JAY LENO • • 1s com1ng to Union on Tuesday, Feb. 26!!! \Jay Leno is the funniest comedian working today.\ -David Letterman Watch for details! Fall'84 Term Abroad Students Yearbook Needs Your Pictures! Come to the Yearbook Meeting Today 7:30 Yearbook OHice (4th fl. Carnegie) CONCORDIENS/S, January 31, 1985 -·-·-·-· -·-·-·-~-·-·.-· ·~ ·- . -·-·-·-·-·-·-·--· -~----·- .. ·-·~·-·-·-·-·-·-·-~~ FOUR SEASONS CHINESE RESTAURANT ... Phone: 393-5440/393-5441 Hours: Sun-Thu 11:30-10:00 _ -Fri-Sat 11: 30·11: 00 Speciaize in Cantonese, Closed Mondays '\ Szechuan & Hunan Take out or Eat In I .We prepare our foods with .•• Just 11 Little Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot of experience We're in Walk.ing Distance 1 0% Student Discount for Take Out Orders Only W /Student :I.. D. . 183 Nott Terrace: Across from Holiday Inn tl_ri_C!_D __ :O_D_L_L_ti_G_D_DIIBiilll_is_a_l_l!llliiiD_I_I_:R_I_Ei_~-- -~-~~~ J_I:I_C:_D...-o_O_I_I VIA VENETO CAFE A new bar at the Ap:p·ian Way Invites You To UNION COLLEGE NIGHT Tonight from 9 .. 2 a.m. ~ ~\\ ~· Specials Include . ~ · ~ *rigatoni bolognese $3.50 '-· _ tJ, ~ * individual, homemade ·' 1 ~~~ - .:'( Pizzas w/unique ·@ (:<:, ' toppings--50¢ ~ ~ *mixed dri>nks--$1.00 *and more! This Friday: LADIES NIGHT SpeciaL· Mixed drinks 50¢ Now Open Sundays 1 p.m.-9 p.m. 1841 Van Vranken *Special Sunday Dinners: Homecooked Italian Spec.ialties

- r - l CONCORD/f,NSIS, January 31, 1985 Page7 V cessful woman. One reason why , she is successful is because her physique· maintains the inferior WOM . E·Nimage. The thin, small, and . · · · petit~ c})~racter~i~s co!lnotate an mfet~tor position m our I culture's symbolic heirarchy. Even short men have a tougher C time making people accept . them fo.· r their personality in· • stead of their physical stature, E compared to tall men. · So now that the culture's heirarchical scale is described . how can we try to absolve thi~ By SHAWNE MCCORD . prejudice? Anne Kent Rush, in In ancient Tahiti the queens were encouraged .to be fat. During the Renaissance, art thrived on women with humungous bodies. Being large during both periods was a sign of health and power. .. FEATURES To OPeN Tl-le BUDGe! DeBaTeJ THe cHaiR Reco6r·Hze~ THe • ..,.,..~~NaToR FRoM T11e aTaTe oF PaNiC. In our culture women are rewarded for being thin, skinny and petite. There are many subtle hints that women Will be better accepted if they are thin. For example, on billboard that you may see when driving to Colonie advertises a local TV news station. It pictures one man on either side of a white, thin, young woman who is shorter than the men. This is our culture's picture of a sue- the book, Getting Clear, (which can be found in Shaffer Library) gives detailed exer- · cises that would help one realize their own feelings about people who are larger than them, or smaller than them. By recognizing the differences in your O'Wil attitudesthis way, it is possible to come to grips with your prejudices and accept other people no matter what their height, weight, er coler happens to be. Israeli B.rigad~er General Speaks: \Women Voice\ is, by its design, a column to reflect the women of the college and conununity. Anyone wishing to contribute tottie column and its calendar, please contact Karla Hanson, Box 1024. Israel's Security Women Voice Calendar. • Jan. 31, 7:45-Revitalizing and Expressing Yourself-women and stress, Unitarian Church, Wendell Ave., for information call370-3902. • Jan. 31, 5:00-Women's Support Group, Women's Network Room, Carnegie. • Feb .. 2, 4: 00--U:ilion Women's Basketball at RPI. •Feb. 5, 9:00-Women's Network Meeting; Women's Network Room, Carnegie. •Feb. 6, 4:00-Union Women's Swimming vs. RPI. •Feb. 7, 7:00-Union Women's Basketball vs. NorthAdams. . •Feb. 8, 6:00-Union Women's Indoor Track at RPI. By SCOTT BERNSTEIN In keeping with its effort to address Zionist and Jewish issues, on Jan. 24, the Jewish Student Union hosted Israeli Brig~dier General Aryeh Shalev. As a veteran of 33 years in the Israeli defense Forces (IDF), General Shalev served in four years and held various positions in the Israeli military apparatus. Shalev, who is now the Deputy Head of the Jaffee Center for Strategic Studies at Tel Aviv University, spoke on issues of Israeli security and fielded questions from a group of about 50 students and professors. Shalev opened the discussion by stressing the relative disparity that still exists bet- ween Arab and Israeli forces. That Israel has defeated its much larger Arab foes on four occasions is, however, a result of the problems which continue to plague the Arab world. The .Iran-Iraq war, which has lasted for over five years, has diverted much of Arab resources, in- cluding oil revenue and ar- maments, away from the Arab- Israeli conflict. Furthermore, A Touch of Scotch By CAROL LEVY Stop to think. Have you done your senior project? Who keeps Union running smoothly? Did YO!l-know that President Morris is Welsh? These questions and more can be answered by a visit with a jovial Scotchman, Jim Ogden. Jim runs the machine lab with Joe O'Rourke and four Union students. Professors and students alike come to him for help with various technical problems. His most memorable con- tributions come from working with engineering and chemistry majors on their senior projects. On his desk is a picture of a contest winning sindmill designed by a student who uses it to produce electricity on his farm (and may I add that he beat out R.P;I.}. Jim helps the students by building and welding tl'1e machine parts that they need. Over the last year he has become attached to the college, which he notes provides an ideal working situation due to its relaxed atmosphere. He loves the campus scenery and calls Union \an oasis in the middle of Schenectady.'' We are all affected by the exciting wave of construction going on. The current machine lab will be replaced by the new student center, and it will be moved during spring breal{ to the new building across from Butterfield Hall. Outside it will have the same design as But- terfield. Inside, Jim has organized·the placement of the machines on the floor plan. He deeply regrets that he will not be able to see the final phases of the project. One of the toughest decisions Jim has had to make was to leave Union and return to his native Scotland. The city life of Edinburgh and his relatives draw him and his family back. He has two children, Kerry, twelve, and Lisa, ten, who enjoy the Dutchmen ice-hockey games. His wife, Sandy, has just informed him to expect a new addition to the family in June! Of his four years in· America, Jim says emphatically, through his charming accent, \This has been the best! \ I think I speak for Union when I say good luck Jim. We will miss you I To Anyone lnterest~d in Energy Conservation Union's Energy Task Force Is Being Reactivated Come to its first organizational meeting on Monday, Feb. 4. in the Banquet Room Carnegie Hall Egypt, considered the most powerful of Arab states is no longer a threat while it holds to the 1978 peace treaty with Israel. General Shalev asserted that the numerical superiority of Arab troops is also offset by their relative ineffectiveness vis-a-vis Israeli soldiers. Perhaps the· greatest Arab advantage is their ability to convert military successes into political achievement. According to Shalev, \If the Arabs win a single war, their goal; the destruction of Israel can be realized.\ By contrast, Israel, \whose only goal is peace,\ has been for the most part, unable to sue for negotiations QI1. the. basis of its military victories. Unlike the Arab states, the strengths of the IDF are primarily qualitative. The backbone of the IDF, the Israeli Infantry and Air Force, has been labeled by many experts, to be the most effective fighting force in the world. Shalev explained that the effectiveness of the IDF lies in the knowledge that they must win every time and in the technical superiority of armaments supplied by the Israeli Defense Industry. He aslo acknowledged the vital importance of US aid, adding that, \Israel could not exist without it.\ As an analyst of Israeli security, General Shalev is most interested in the strategic importance of the West Bank; the biblical area of Judea and Samaria taken from Jordan in the 1967 Six Day War. Shalev, a \political moderate\ is critical of the West Bank policies pursued by the former govern- ment of Menachem Begin. The policy, which he says was \clearly aimed at annexation\ through the construction of Jewish settlements in the primarily Palestinean area, was flawed for several reasons. If annexation was to occur, Israel would have to grant full citizenship to West Bank Arabs, who then combined with Israeli Arabs would have a numerical superiority over Israeli Jews, putting the Jewish state on the brink of electoral extinction. In addition, world opinion, par- ticularly in Western Europe and the United States would be vehemently critical of an Israeli annexation, reinforcing Israel's world image as a \pariah\ state. General Shalev faulted the Arab states, particularly Jordan, for their failure to accept Israeli peace proposals. II1 the absence of a negotiated settlement, he advocated the continued presence of Israeli troops throughout the occupied territeries. During his defense of Israeli military policy in the West Bank, General Shalev was questioned by a member of the Audience. The Union student, a resident of the West Bank town of Ramallah, criticized the IDF for shooting Arab protesters, but soldiers were often forced to fire when threatened by stone- throwing mobs. He added that \warning shots\ no longer deterred the demonstrators. Despite the unrest of Palestinean residents, Israel is forced to retain control of the West Bank for security reasons. In its pre-1967 borders, Israel's densely populated and in- dustrialized central region is 14 km wide, roughly three minutes takeoff and flight time for Jordanian bombers. In the hills of the West Bank have been installed ''early warning systems,\ enabling Israel to prevent a surprise attack from the East. The presence of the IDF on the West Bank also allows Israeli intelligence to weed out PLO terrorists hiding out in Arab villages, in preparation for strikes into Israel. Recently the Western. press has assailed the Israeli policy of bulldozing the homes of caputred terrorists. General Shalev explained that ~ an occupying power, Israel is bound by the Geneva Con- vention to uphold Jordanian and British law, which prevailed prior to 1967 and from which the present policy originates. -In light of recent problems in Lebanon, Shalev said that \In the future, Israeli force must be used only when there is no other feasible option.\ He charac- terized the war in Lebanon as a \war of choice,\ and a deviation from the IDF's basic objectives. According to Shalev the primary role of the IDF must be to deter war and if wars must be fought they must be won quickly with minimum casualties. Contrary to what he has been recently said, Shalev denied that the image of Israeli military power had been tar- nished by the war in Lebanon, but conceeded that Syria, because of its initial early defeat and the resulting Soviet- supported arms build-up, now represented the greatest threat to Israeli security. Upon being questioned about a more active role for the US military, General Shalev was adamant, ''Israel must be prepared to counter any Arab threat on its own, when it cannot, it will cease to exist.\ He added that the only role for the US military in the Arab- Israeli conflict should be the neutralization of Soviet ino fluence wherever possible.

PageS. (~S!': '; ~. \\~~P;~~~ ... ~\t:l?.'?':~;{S_i~.zy:~ CONCORDIENSIS, Jo11uorJ• 3l, 1985 c: II) I.. ltl ID c: Ill -, >- .0 0 ... 0 .c a. FEATURES Statue of Budha in new Tokyo, Japan. = Experiencing A Culture Continued from page 5 preciation and warmth began to hitchhiked all over, and in back feel at home. As for us, we grow in response to the care and . streets and in youth hostels we suddenly had new parents, new unceasing interest our families found friendly people who brothers and new sisters whose gave us. Everyone's homest~y showed us their worlds and names took a long time to experience was different, but no made us feel welcome. As we remember. We were like one would say it wasn't worth It. explored, we still wondered at children for a while, and we had As we settled in, we began to the fact tfuat we were actually to be shown how to sleep as they follow our interests. Weekends there, doing those things. Four do, how to take a bath, and how became the goal, and there months, we realized, was much to use chopsticks to eat food we weren't enough of them to do too short a time in which to do had never seen before. Yes, everything. Osaka discotheques everything: Though it didn't they really do eat raw fish over saw parties in true Skellar spirit occur to us then, we were ac• there. Everything was so dif· that left them a little dazed, tually starting to feel at home .. ferent that homesickness was Tokyo weekends were the thing And suddenly we're all back hard to avoid. For the first to do, and romance made us here at Union. The term is over couple of days everyone would wonder if we were going to and we are back in the real gather at school and talk about return to Union with the same world. Japan seems unreal and how strange everything was. As number of people that we left far away, like ' a dream. A time went by, however, ap- with. As a group we hiked to choice now faces us all; to ancient temples high in . the throw those pictures .in the attic mountains, and wondered at and get back to the life here, or gardens that were famoilS a to remember and appreciate hundred years before America the fact that the world is a lot was discovered. The Hiroshima ·bigger than we had once trip we will never forget; but for thought. a much more recent reason. We c .. ~mories of Japan Every morning I wake up to a loudspeaker asking for old newspapers, bottles, . and cans. Every evening as I ride my bicycle home, I hear loud train- like whistles-it's the noodle man!! November Speaking .of experiences- I experienced the \sushi con- veyor belt\ once more today. If only I could look forward to 50- cents-a-plate sushi back in New Yerk. What will I do? I need my weekly fix ... Would you believe I just had an argwnent with Kaori? She's insisting Mackadanoldo's (McDonald's) is a Japanese company!! I was just given one of my going ·away presents-a pink plastic pig nightlight! ! they do. There is just too much to tell. The Union group was able to experience the country's natural beauty and unique rich cultural heritage intensely in just four months. The Japanese people treat each other and Will go out of their way to treat you with respect and graciousness. c: co ..... co aJ I had the privilege today of meeting Hasegawa-san, the corporate Manager of Quality Control for Sanyo Electric. He spent four hours tutoring me about Zero Defects Management. He said, ''I'm going to teach you what I teach Japanese managers all over the world!\ He didn't speak too much English but it didn't matter-the night before he spent hours translating the manual! January So, what is Japan? Japan is' giesha dressed in magnificent ldmonos, incredibly difficult Kanji, Mild Sevens, delicious sushi and sukiyaka, intricate tea ceremonies, speedy bullet trains, ancient Buddhist tem- ples and Shinto shrines, Kabuki dramas, public baths, Panasonic, Total Quality Control, green tea, discos, Karate, Smno, Toyota City, miso soup, Mikko, Kyoto-the list is endless. . . c: . Last weekernd we went to Ise, the home of Mikimoto Pearls and some of the most sacred shrines. Again we were subject to Japanese kindness. We were waiting for a boat to take us back to the mainland and we met these two men who asked us where we were· going. When they discovered we were going to be passing through their hometown they insisted on driving us along the outskirts of the peninsula over the bridge to the door of our ninshuku (businessman's hotel). They not only drove us but called the hotel to tell them what time to expect us so dinner would be waiting! This evening we went to a real . classy disco-Maharaja. Of course, we couldn't find the place on our own-a Japanese girl escorted us ten minutes out of her way. Once inside, we met more Japanese eagerly wanting to talk and dance with us. To top it off, they bought us enough beer, cakes,· and (!rinks to keep us there tmtil curfew--all trains stop at midnight. December My okaasan took me to a tea ceremony today and we dressed in full kimono garb. It turned out to be more of a celebrity hour-every woman there knew an American was coming and came prepared with their cameras. For thirty minutes I was asked· to pose with each of them. They then proceeded to try on my big shoes, touch my hair, my skin and stared at me intensely. Later, they made me pose with all the tea ceremony utensils and I had to pretend that I knew what I was doing. At the end I was showered with gifts!! If I had 200 yen for every time someone asked me \How was Japan?\ and expected me to sum it up in one minute I'd be quite rich by now. Frankly, one cannot summarize an ex- perience of a lifetime-living with a Japanese family, lear- ning their language, doing a_s How was .Japan?? There is only one answer- It was GREAT!!!!! CAMPUS QUOTES \We're only students formulating pol icy here ... We're in the experimental stages now, but we hope to build some kind of a foundation for the years to come.\ --Sue Brand, chairman of Committee on Committees \When we (Colgate) used to play Union, we used to smoke 'em.\ --Mark Morris, assistant hockey coach \If the Arabs win a single war; their goal, the destruction of Israel, can be realized.\ --JSU speaker Aryeh Shalev, Israeli Brigadier General \The Reagan administration and its allies in Congress have recognized the terrible fact that there's going to be no public outcry in this country if our ability to report the truth is circumscribed.\ .-carl Bernstein, visiting journalist \Given the intensity and level of academics that we expect of our students and our faculty, the typical professor's. course load is just too heavy.\ --Vice President Thomas D'Andrea Heian Shrine where a huge procession of the ages culminates. FRESHMEN Results from the Class Representative Election 1 )Richard Allan, 98 votes 2)Todd Harder, 93 votes 3 )David Cohen, 78 votes 319 votes.cast (59.2% participation)· The. RUNOFF ELEOION will be held TOMORROW in Carnegie Hall for the 2 available positions. VOTE Luncheon Colloquium Winter-Spring 1985 T-hursday, February 7 ''Making Spectacles of Themselves: Women & Film'' Brenda Wineapple Associate Professor of English·, Union College Banquet Room, Carnegie • 12:30 p.~. Bring your lunch • Coffee & tea provided co -· \') >. ..0 0 ... 0 J:: a.

~k 't A 0 c e c:: tO ..... tO a:l c::· ro ..., >- ..Q E 0 .c:: a. 12:00-4:00 p.m. 1:00-3:00 p.m. l:00-5:00p.m. 7, 9, 11:00 p.m. 10:30-2:00 a.m. \ 12:00-4:00 p.m. 1:00-3:00 p.m. 1:00-4:00 p.m. 5,6, 7:00p.m. CONCORDJENSIS, January 31, 1985 Page9 Winter Carnival '85 Friday, February 1st Opening Event . . . CROSS..COUNTRY SKIING . . . Rent skis in Strauss Lounge. Enjoy skiing through the gardens or enter a race starting at 3:00! Weather Permitting. ' ICE .SKATING ... free skating in Achilles Rink with your Union I. D. Rentals available. HOSPITALITY BOOTH ...• Free Hot-Chocolate in Strauss -L9unge with your Union College Mug. Mugs · available in Student Activities for $2.00. \ALL OF ME\ starring Lily Tomlin and Steve Martin. .Sponsored by the Film Committee. It will be shown in Social Sciences 016 and tickets are available for $LOO at the ticket booth. SPECIAL EVENT . . . . Semi-Formal All-Campus Dance featuring the band \OUT OF CONTROL\. The dance will be held in the Alwnni Gym, admittance is free and is sponsored by the Social Conunittee, Inter- Fraternity Council and Panhelleilic Council. Saturday, February 2nd CARNIVAL ... in the Alumni Gym. Featuring a wide variety of booths sponsored by various clubs, dorms, fraternities and sororites. Come on up for food, games, fun and surprises! ICE.SKATING ... free skating in Achilles Rink with your Union I. D. Rentals available. SWIMMING ... the pool in Alumni Gym will be open for free swinuning. · DUTCHMEN'S NIGHT . . . Special Winter Carnival dinner in the Dutch Hollow Pub. Make reservations at the Pizza Pub before Friday February 1st. The meal costs one punch for those students on a meal plan. All others may attend for a nominal fee. 7,9, ll:OOp.m. \ALL OF ME\ starring Lily Tomlin and Steve Martin. Sponsored by the Filln Committee. It will be shown in Social Sciences 016 and tickets are available for $1.00 at the ticket booth. 7:30-lO:OOp.m. GO-GARNET-GO NIGHT •• ;Come cheer on the Union Hockey Team as they defeat Merrimack College. Don't forget to wear GARNET!! 10:36-close LIVE ENTERTAINMENT ... munchles, specials, dancing ... atthe Dutch Hollow Pub. Fun after the hockey game will also be found at the Skeller and Phi Delta Theta!! Sunday,Febmary3rd 12: 00-3: 00 p.m. SPECIAL BRUNCH ... in the Dutch Hollow Pub~ Reservations .only (taken at the Pizza Pub) Meal card holders may use a punch and anyone else may pay $4. 75. Brunch will be accompanied by LIVE JAZZ MUSIC,. 1:06-2:30p.m. 7, 9, ll:OOp.m. ICE-SKATING ... free skating in Achilles Rink with your Union I.D. Rentals available. \AU. OF ME\ starring Lily Tomlin and Steve Martin. Sponsored by the Film Committee. It will be shown in Social Sciences 016 and tickets are available for $1.00 at the ticket booth. * **DON'T FORGET** * Buy your WINTER CARNIVAL TEE-SHIRT for $5.00 before and throughout the weekend! *** RAFFLE TICKETS will be on sale for .50¢ each or 3 for $1.00. Winners will be announced at the DANCE Friday night. First Prize: Cassette stereo box donated by Drome Sound Second Prize: $50.00 gift certificate from the Union Bookstore Third Prize: Gift dona~d by Englebarts Liqqor Store Fourth Prize: Gift donated by Moffets Liquor Store Other Prizes: Various gifts donated by Miller Brewing Company *** UNION COLLEGE MUGS (complete with the little Dutchman!) Available in Student Activities for $2.00. With this mug you get FREE HOT -CHOCOLATE on Friday from 1:00-5:00 and Saturday from 12:00-4:00 in the gym.

Page 10 CONCORDJENSIS. JddliarrJJ; 1985' ~ . ' ' ' ' .. ~' ' Olnmrbirnsis Foundta at ll~t~on Coli~ 1877 ----------- -----~~- Union and Unions Beginning last Monday at 7 a.m., members of the local Laborer's Union #157 started picketing the gates to the College. Apparently the contractor being used to build the College's new engineering lab, Barson's Construction Company, is not a union member. Therefore, workers on the project are not covered by a local #157 labor agreement which protects the laborer. There are ''no benefits for his (Barson's) men,\ said one picketer. There are \no guarantees that they have a job the next day.\ With a union \you've got a little protection,\ added the picketer. Jack Hill, director of campus operations, said that Barson's was \selected for the job because it was the low bidder. All the College has specified is that contractors pay the prevailing rate in the area\ to their employees. \We don't discriminate against the contractors simply because they are non-union,\ added Hill, \and this is not a new position for the campus.\ As of Tuesday morning, the College had worked out an agreement with the labor union whereby picketing would only occur at the College gates where con- struction trucks travel: the Union Aveoue and Nott Street entrances. In essence, Hill explains, \The College understands the union's position, but we feel this is a matter between the union and the conm tr~ctor\ alone. Hill added, \We fully anticipate that the work that will be awarded this spring will go to union contractors\ for they are better equipped to handle large-scale construction jobs.'' The question is whether or not the College should hire non-union contractors in the first place. Does the College have a responsibility to support only the labor unions? It is something to think about. More Reagan Cuts u 0 > .ll ~ a The Reagan Administration has announced that it will attempt to eliminate student loans to families with incomes over $32,000 and to limit aid to all students to $4,000 a year. Despite a public outcry that this will force millions of middle class students out of college, Ronald Reagan wishes to cut the heart out of one of this country's most- fundamental traditions: that of educational opportunity to all citizens, despite wealth or social status. Does Reagan wish to turn every private college in this country into institutions merely for white up- perclass students? How can a family earning only $33,000 be expected to foot a bill of over $12,000 a year, without the benefit of the guaranteed loan? Yes, Congress will most probably fight this request in the House and Senate. One must realize, however, that many of Reagan's previous cuts to education passed, despite similar public reactions. It is hoped that every person in the Union com- munity realizes the awful significance of this budget request. The ISC, led by our own Steven Benson, will most certainly stage a fight. They will need all the help they can get. The time to act, through letters from students, parents, faculty, and administJ:ators to local and national representatives, is now. This is not an issue to be shrugged off. • , • .'>-1 In response ... LETTERS Israel Term Applauded To the Editor: This winter term Union College sent seven people on a term abroad to Israel. Response to the term had been poor, placing the term in jeopardy of being cancelled numerous times. Ultimately, the term was allowed to proceed, and on the night of the 24th of December, seven students from Union College found themselves in the Ram Hotel in Jerusalem with Professor Berk. After a three- day whirlwind tour of Israel, we were \deposited\ on Kibbutz Gal' on in Southern Israel. Since then, we have picked crates of oranges and grapefruit, weeded fields, and chased and moved by hand sixteen thousand chickens. We have also un- dertaken an intensive study of the Hebrew language. This combination of study and work has enabled us to develop relationships with Ki:bbutz members to the point where we have been accepted as part of the Kibbutz community. We applaud the individuals who influenced Union -to proceed with the Israel term abroad. Thank you very much for a very special winter. Sincerely, Gale Burstein Stephen Frank Elisa Cullen BarryStabl Eric Feingold Robbie Blinkoff WendyBaer P.S. It is 70 degrees out and sunny every day. Eat your hearts out! •••o•••••••••a••••••••••••••••••••••••s•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• .. •o••••••o••••••••••e•oGe•••••••••M••••••••••• E Union College Film Commiffee Presents: i • • • 0 • 0 . . .. • • • • • . . • . • • • • • . . . • • . . . • • . • • • • • . . • • • • . . ~ . • ~ • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • . . • • . . . . . . . . • • • • . . . . . . i Feb. 1-3 p.m., Fri.-Sun. • 1, 9, 11 p.m. ! : \' 55016 • Admission $1.00 : ••••••••••~••••••••o••o•G••••••••••••••••••••••~••••••••••e•••••••••••~••••••••••••••••s~•••••c•••••••••••••••••••••••o•••• . Anything bothering you? Make yourself heard! Write a letter to the editor To a II student activity chairmen: All boxes for Concordiensis must be typed! If you wish to run an ad for more than one week, cut the ad out of the paper and tape it to a sheet of paper. When changes are made to an ad that was previously run, the ad must be retyped as well. ERATUM: Last week it was stated that Deborah Saltzman and Diane Klein were chair- persons for Cabaret, 1983-84 .. The chairpersons were, however, Deborah Saltzman and Lisa Freir. '\JRj~'ftlltctilik~,tjtnn 0 1 9riert Jay Grossman < . Ellen Stipp Heidi &sen Ass<actate Adve:msknrEttitors · ' DebbielioS-ei u;uren Sobel Photo ljl,ditws ·· · Daphfie;c,bigas, U\11'f Kaminsky Sports Photo Edit{)rs . PatMerrltttScott Press Subscription Editors Mitch Beti.lStein, Jim Campbell Staff: Mickey Bradley, Lori Coapert Josh Greene, Andy Hodgkin. Brian Laux, Emily Loose, ·nave Marin, Joanne McAndrews, Peter Mohr, Eileen O'Connell, Steve Piraino, Amy . Ros~Jn.antz.Franklin Schneider, MttclteU Stein) Conrad Tatge, Jamce Thompson, Mark Van Buren, Al White, Scott Wykoff. . Photo Staff: Cara Canzani, Mik!! Danberg, David Gruber. CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thur$day by the student body of Union College Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications oifice: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13638, {607) 563·3526. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter every three weeks. Subscription rate: $13 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States . CONCORDIENSIS to the Press Service { CPS)and utilizes the Collle.~re- Ne\N'S I G o· c iJ ~ A iJ 1! fl a s F n F c h 0 p 0 c ] e I c I a c v E E c t i ~ (] r l I l If It ,t;: .c ~ ~ c .s: ' ' c

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, JanuarJ•'31~ 198'5 OlJJttntrbirttsis Fourwl:tJ at limon Coli~ Ill'!:' ------------ --------~- Union and Unions Beginning last Monday at 7 a.m., members of the local Laborer's Union #157 started picketing the gates to the College. Apparently the contractor being used to build the College's new engineering lab, Barson's Construction Company, is not a union member. Therefore, workers on the project are not covered by a local #157 labor agreement which protects the laborer. There are \no benefits for his (Barson's) men,\ said one picketer. There are \no guarantees that they have a job the next day.\ With a union \you've got a little protection,\ added the picketer. Jack Hill, director of campus operations, said that Barson's was \selected for the job because it was the low bidder. All the College has specified is that contractors pay the prevailing rate in the area\ to their employees. \We don't discriminate against the contractors simply because they are non-union,\ added Hill, \and this is not a new position for the campus.\ As of Tuesday morning, the College had worked out an agreement with the labor union whereby picketing would only occur at the College gates where con- struction trucks travel: the Union Avenue and Nott Street entrances. In essence, Hill explains, ''The College tmderstands the union's position, but we feel this is a matter between the union and the con- tr~ctor\ alone. Hill added, \We fully anticipate that the work that will be awarded this spring will go to union contractors\ for they are better equipped to handle large-scale construction jobs.\ The question is whether or not the College should hire non-union contractors in the first place. Does the College have a responsibility to support only the labor unions? It is something to think about. More Reagan Cuts The Reagan Administration has announced that it will attempt to eliminate student loans to families with incomes over $32,000 and to limit aid to all students to $4,000 a year. Despite a public outcry that this will force millions of middle class students out of college, Ronald Reagan wishes to cut the heart out of one of this country's most- fundamental traditions: that of educational opportunity to all citizens, despite wealth or social status. Does Reagan wish to turn every private college in this country into institutions merely for white up- perclass students? How can a family earning only $33,000 be expected to foot a bill of over $12,000 a year, without the benefit of the guaranteed loan? Yes, Congress will most probably fight this request in the House and Senate. One must realize, however, that many of Reagan's previous cuts to education passed, despite similar public reactions. It is hoped that every person in the Union com- munity realizes the awful significance of this budget request. The ISC, led by our own ·Steven Benson, will most certainly stage a fight. They will need all the help they can get. The time to act, through. letters from students, parents, faculty, and administrators to local and national representatives, is now. This is not an issue to be shrugged off. ! . F l 1 n response ... LETTERS Israel Term Applauded To the Editor: This winter term Union College sent seven people on a term abroad to Israel. Response to the term had been poor, placing the term in jeopardy of being cancelled numerous times. Ultimately, the term was allowed to proceed, and on the night of the 24th of December, seven students from Union College foWld themselves in the Ram Hotel in Jerusalem with Professar Berk. After a three- day whirlwind tour of Israel, we were \deposited\ on Kibbutz Gal'on in Southern Israel. Since then, we have picked crates of oranges and grapefruit, weeded fields, and chased and moved by hand sixteen thousand chickens. We have also un- dertaken an intensive study of the Hebrew language. This combination of study and work has enabled us to develop relationships with Kibbutz members to the peint where we have been accepted as part of the Kibbutz cormnunity. We applaud the individuals who influenced Union to proceed with the Israel term abroad. Thank you very much for a very special winter. Sincerely, Gale Burstein Stephen Frank Elisa Cullen Barry Stahl Eric Feingold Robbie Blinkoff WendyBaer P.S. It is 70 degrees out and sunny every day. Eat your hearts out! ao••••••••••••••••••••o•••••e•e••••••••• ••••••••••••••••a•••••••••••~•aeo4eaaaco••••A••oGeae~••~o••••••••••••••••• Union ~0111ea1e Film CommiHee Presents: s \ALL OF ME is a funny, offbeat comedy ... I was laughing from beginning to end.'\ -Rog<>r Eb.,rt, AT THE MOVIES \ALL OF ME is a wild new comedy ... a very funn1• Steve Martin performante ... a triumph.\ ,. - G<>ne Siskel, AT THE MOVIES \ALL OF ME's·gags are funny, and they're executed by Steve M with a physical virtuosity worthy of Buster Keaton.\ - Jack Kroll. NEWSWEEK MAGAZINE . . • . . • ! Feb. 1-3 p.m., Fri.-Sun. • 7, 9, 11 p.m. : ~ 55016 • Admission $1.00 : ••e•••••••~aeoo•••••••••••oe•••••••••••••••••••~••••••••s••~••••••••••••••••g••••••D•••••••••••••o••••••••••••••••••••••••• . I Anything bothering you? Make yourself heard! Write a letter to the editor To all student activity chairmen: All boxes for Concordiensis must be typed! If you wish to run an ad for more than one week, cut the ad out of the paper and tape it to a sheet of paper. When changes are made to an ad that was previously run, the ad must be retyped as well. ERATUM: Last week it was stated that Deborah Saltzman and Diane Klein were chair- persons for Cabaret, 1983-84. The chairpersons were, however, Deborah Saltzman and Lisa Freir. ;:· .. .... ,\; :' : \· . ,.,_···:. . $9i,to,rs•in..Cbief :tqew$ Et!ftot$ F¢~tl.lre&~:ditorcS Treitlet Cfuimnentary Page EditOr Frantz ArtsEtUtors . ,. . . . llert;.Lin~aRaifa:ele Camplis · Editors·· · Doyle, Jill Kaufman, Sports··.·· .. s .· · Paul Kurker, Lynn O'Brien AssoclateSportsEditor · JayGrossman Advertisinglllditors . . Ellen Slipp, :Eieidi Rosen Associate Advertising Editors ' Debbie Rose, Lauren Sobel Photo Editors · · Daphne Qhigast Larry Kaminsky Sports Photo Editors Pat Merritt, Scott Press Subscription Editors .Mitch Bernstein 1 Jim Campbell Staff: Mickey Bradley, Lori Cooper. Josh Greene, Andy Hodgkin, Brian Laux, Emily Loose, Dave Marin, Joanne McAndrews, Peter Mohr, Eileen O'Connell, Steve Piraino, Amy Rosenkrantz.Franklin Schneider, Mitchell Stein, Conrad Tatge; Janice Thompson, Mark Van Buren, AI White, Scott Wykoff. Photo Staff: Cara Canzani, Mik~ Danberg, David Gruber. CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; PublicationsOffice: Susquehanna Publications, Inc .. , Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-3526. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter every three weeks. Subscription rate: $18 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. OONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS) and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB)~ Office t~leph!lfle-(618)37o.6f5!} · . ... . -.- .. -.:-.!. ··--- • : ,-. '-·- - . . • --. '· •

' CONCORDJENSJS; January JJ;.J-985 · Page 11 Lest We F org~t By AARON RUTHERFORD III Class of '67 The American activist Dick Gregory and many, many others spent years gaining a con census for a national holiday in memory of the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. Yet, an American patriot who also died in the service of his country in 1968 has yet to be fully honored for his sacrifice. I am speaking about the junior United States Senator from New York, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. In the battle waged against a national holiday in memory of Reverend King, opponents often cited the fact that national holidays should be designated only for distinguished presidents of the United States or to . commemorate acts of courage or movements which have kept our country free, for example Veterans Day or Labor Day. The burning of American cities and towns after Martin Luther King, Jr.'s assassination after March 9, 1968, should have convinced all of us that this man was the unslJilg President of Black America. Surely, the Reverend King would have detested such a statement but the truth remains that he was indeed the spiritual and political conscience of millions of Americans and, had a black man been allowed to serve as President of the United States, Reverend King would }lave been Black America's choice. It is clear to many of us that Robert Kennedy's decision to run for the presidency was, at least in part, based on the destruction and sorrow caused by the King assassination. To heal the wounds of a divided nation was in the back of his mind and paramount in his heart. If the old testament philosophy of his brother, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, had been appropriate in his time, so too, was Robert's belief in the ultimate power of love and hope. His announcement to .seek the Democratic nomination in the spring of 1968 was the last time Rob_ert Kennedy looked back reflectively on the past. By choosing to run, he . freed himself from the Kennedy legacy and began a new era in American politics. If anyone still remembers his speeches on the campuses that spring, all other American Presidential en Ill .'!! .c: u (J) c .c 0. m Q >- .0 .E 0 .c 0. campaigns seem lifeless in comparison. Tohealthe wounds meant fre.eing hi.mself~and US'- from the guilt of past social and hwnan crimes and the building of a different kind of world. It has been more than 16 years since Robert Kennedy's death and we are still struggling with this new vision, still wondering if it actually might have happened. · Yet, instead of the fulfillment of a joyful dream, we have only the fading memories of a dead senator on the floor of a hotel kitchen in southern California. Rob~rt Fitzgerald Kennedy, Jr., who would have been the 42nd. President of the United States, is now relegated to the status of secondary hero. And, sadly, if this is where our nation wishes to leavehim, then I think we, at least, should give him a proper burial. My call for the establishment of a national holiday in memory of Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. I . Letters editor to commentaries the and do not necesarily reflect the ·opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis. believe is a fitting historical tribute. And, if you have little interest in furthering the Kennedy legend, then, perhaps you should consider lobbying to create such a holiday for yourselves: to leave a reminder to generations of young children of a time when we were just beginning to have enough faith in ourselves to seek a conclusion to the endless civil war which still plagues our nation. If the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. finally has been recognized for his non-violent, religious battle for equality and· justice for all Americans, nQw it is time to pay our historical debt to a man who had already begun to strive for the end of hate and hostility in our human world. And, if we cannot rediscover this vision again for ourselves, then let us not deny our children that hope. There are still, after all these years, promises to keep. Lest we forget. All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 4 p.m. • each Tuesday ·before publicati- on. All letters must be signed , but names will be withheld upon request. Each Thursday Concordiensis is at noon, dropped off at Carnegie. PLEASE help carry a stack or two into Carnegie on your way in if possib~e. Thank you. A dwarf's eye view of Memorial Chapel COMMENTARIES From Where I Stand By WAYNE JOSEL The impetus forthis column is an outgrowth of many hours of conversation in the 'Skellar. It seems that our own little beer establishment has become quite a congregation for this year's graduating class of seniors. As we complete the ,last months of our college career together, we have found many things in common that we seem to have ignored for three years. It is in the 'Skellar that many dif~ ferences have dissolved and many common concerns and fears have come to light. It is through this column that I hope to bring Some of these thoughts, worries, and excitement out into the open, for as I ex- perience my senior year first- hand, I realize how little I had heard about it previously, and how little prepared I was for it. It seems that a hot topic in this paper a few weeks back was the fact that the Registrar had raised the price of obtaining a transcript. This past Monday I experienced the joy of forking over $2 for a copy of my \unofficial\ transcript. The whole idea of paying money for the unofficial transcript is fairly ridiculous because as I figured out with my $40,000 education, I can now obtain as many \unofficial\ copies as I want, and for only a nickel! ! I don't really think that the Registrar is planning on a trip to Ber- muda, but I find it hard to justify the expense. Some irony was also added to the incident. It seems that the editors of this paper were quite accurate in their assessment in an editorial last week when they stated that expenses at this institution are·often justifued by comparing them to the ex- penses at other schools. It seems that the Registrar has also picked up on this little gimmick, for as I relented and paid my transcript fee, I was entertained by a sign on the wall comparing Union's transcript prices to those at \comparable\ schools. It seems that we fall somewhere in the middle in having our money sucked out of our pockets for little reason. One illustrious university, whose name escapes me, has a $5 penalty for requesting a transcript. Many others share Union's current $2 charge, or its recently scrapped $1.fee. I have to give the Registrar's office credit, though, they did admit that one school actually gives their transcripts away. It's difficult to believe that the Registrar has so little faith in the Union education that after four years he figured we'd be pacified by these statistics. However, I'm afraid that this appears to be the attitude of most of the administration. We're not smart enough to spot a snow job, and we wouldn't dare complain or raise the collective conscious. Or would we?? Can you guess where this was taken? OFF-'BEAT 5E£? I. TOL-D Yov. Tr\AT T\riC:.. EAk:Tt-tf't\E.I\l We g_t. PLANN \ NG TO INVADE, U~~ LET'~ CA~Tue.E H\M AND F1~D OUT EvE~'tf\-\\~~ HE KtbwS'.

• . . . • . . . . • • • . 0 . . . . • . . . . • • . • . ' • • • • • • • . . . • • • • • e CONCORD/ENSIS, January JJ;.J.985 · Page 11 Lest We Forg~t By AARON RUTHERFORD III Class of '67 The American activist Dick Gregory and many, many others spent years gaining a concensus for a natianal holiday in memory of the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. Yet, an American patriot who also died in the service of his country in 1968 has yet to be fully honored for his sacrifice. I am speaking about the junior United States Senator from New York, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. In the battle waged against a national holiday in memory of Reverend King, epponents often cited the fact that national holidays should be designated only for distinguished presidents of the United States or to commemorate acts of courage or movements which have kept our country free, for example Veterans Day or Labor Day . The burning of American cities and towns after Martin Luther King, Jr.'s assassination after March 9, 1968, should have convinced all of us that this man was the unsung President of Black America. Surely, the Reverend King would have detested such a statement but the truth remains that he was indeed the spiritual and political conscience of millions of Americans and, had a black man been allowed to serve as President of the United States, Reverend King would have been Black America's choice. It is clear to many of us that Robert Kennedy's decision to run for the presidency was, at least in part, based on the destruction and sorrow caused by the King assassination. To heal the wounds of a divided nation was in the back of his mind and paramount in his heart. If the old testament philosophy of his brother, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, had been appropriate in his time, so too, was Robert's belief in the ultimate power of love and hope. His announcement to seek the Democratic nomipation in the spring of 1968 was the last time Robert Kennedy looked back reflectively on the. past. By choosing to run, he . freed himself from the Kennedy legacy and began a new era in American politics. If anyone still remembers his speeches on the campuses that spring, all other American Presidential <n rp .1:!: .c u Q) c: .c a. Ill 0 >- .Q ~ 0 .c a. campaigns seem lifeless in comparison. To heal the wounds meant freeing himself~and us- from the guilt of past social aad human crimes and the building of a different kind of world. It has been more than 16 years since Robert Kennedy's death and we are still struggliag with this new vision, still wondering if it actually might have happened. Yet, instead of the fulfillment of a joyful dream, we have only the fading memories of a dead senator on the floor of a hotel kitchen in southern California. Rob~rt Fitzgerald Kennedy, Jr., who would have been the 42nd. President of the United States, is now relegated to the status of secondary hero. And, sadly, if this is where our nation wisbes to leave him, then I think we, at least, should give him a proper burial. My call for the establishment of a national holiday in memory of Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. I Letters editor to commentaries the and do not necesarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis. believe is a fitting historical tribute. And, if you have little interest ill furthering. the Kennedy legend, then, perhaps you should consider lobbying to create such a holiday for yourselves: to leave a reminder to generations of young children of a time when we were just beginning to have enough faith in ourselves to seek a conclusion to the endless civil war which still plagues our nation. If the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. finally has been recognized for his non-violent, religious battle for equality and· justice for all Americans, nuw it is time to pay our historical debt to a man who had already begun to strive for the end of hate and hostility in our human world . And, if we cannot rediscover this vision again for ourselves, then let us not deny our children that hope. There are still, after all these years, promises to keep. Lest we forget. A II letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publicati- on. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. Thursday Concordiensis is off at Carnegie. Each at noon, dropped PLEASE help carry a stack or two into Carnegie on your way in if possible. Thank you. \ ~~ I :~ . ! A dwarf's eye view of Memorial Chapel COMMENTARIES From Where I Stand By WAYNE JOSEL The impetus for this colunm is an outgrowth of many hours of conversation in the 'Skellar. It seems that our own little beer establishment has become quite a congregation for this year's graduating class of seniors. As we complete the last months of our college career together, we have found many things in common that we seem to have ignored for three years. It is in the 'Skellar that many dif- ferences have dissolved and many common concerns and fears have come to light. It is through this column that I hope to bring some of these thoughts, worries, and excitement out into the open, for as I ex- perience my senior year first- hand, I realize how little I had heard about it previously, and how little prepared I was for it . It seems that a hot topic in this paper a few weeks back was the fact that the Registrar had raised the price of obtaining a transcript. This past Monday I experienced the joy of forking over $2 for a copy of my \unofficial\ transcript. The whole idea of paying money for the unofficial transcript is fairly ridiculous because as I figured out with my $40,000 education, I can now obtain as many \unofficial\ copies as I want, and for only a nickel!! I don't really think that the Registrar is planning on a trip to Ber- muda, but I find it hard to justify the expense. · Some irony was also added to the incident. It seems that the editors of this paper were quite accurate in their assessment in an editorial last week when they stated that expenses at this institution are often justifued by comparing them to the ex- penses at other schools. It seems that the Registrar has also picked up on this little gimmick, for as I relented and paid my transcript fee, I was entertained by a sign on the wall co!llparing Union's transcript prtces to those at \comparable\ schools. It seems that we fall somewhere in the middle in having our money sucked out of our pockets for little reason. One illustrious university, whose name escapes me, has a $5 penalty for requesting a transcript. Many others share Union's current $2 charge, or its recently scrapped $1 fee. I have to give the Registrar's office credit, though, they did admit that one school actually gives their transcripts away . It's difficult to believe that the Registrar has so little faith in the Union education that after four years he figured we'd be pacified by these statistics. However, I'm afraid that this appears to be the attitude of most of the administration. We're not smart enough to spot a snow job, and we wouldn't dare complain or raise the collective conscious. Or would we?? Can you guess where this was taken? OFF-'BE.AT SE£_? I. IOL-D Yo\.A Tr\AT Trit. EAQ.Tr\1''\f.N Wt. £.£: PLANN \NG \0 JNVADE.. US~ LET') CA?T\Ae.E: H\M AND F1f'lD oi.TT Ev£~Yft\H4(, HE K~S 1 .

Page 12 FINANCIAL AID The President's Committee on Mental Retardation is of- fering a need-based $5,000 scholarship for advanced study in the field of mental retar- dation. For further information and an application, write to: The President's Committee on Mental Retardation, U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, Office of Human Development Services, Washington, D.C. 20201. Deadline for submission: March 1, 1985. The State of New Jersey is offering $4,000 renewable ·awards to graduate students in a non-professional degree program at a New Jersey in- stitution. Applications are available in the Financial Aid Office. Deadline for sub- mission: March 1, 1985. The Graduate and Professional School Financial Aid Service (GAPSFAS) application for 1985-86 is now· available in the Financial Aid Office. These applications will qualify you for need-based institutional and \campus- based\ federal financial aid at many graduate and professional schools. The Purchasing Management Association of Eastern New York is offering two $650 scholarships to students exhibiting an interest in Pur- chasing as a possible career. Applications and additional information is available in the Financial Aid Office. Deadline for submission: March 1, 1985. 'lbe Regents of the State of New York are offering 312 renewable awards of up to $3,000 each to New v'Jrk State residents who are working toward certification as a teacher of math or science. Recipients must agree to teach the equivalent of one academic year in New York State for every two years of awards received. Applications for additional information is available in the Financial Aid Office. Deadline for sub- mission: March 1, 1985. The sisters of the Union College Tri-Delta chapter are sponsoring a competition for a $500 scholarship. The recipient will automatically be entered in competition for one of four $1,000 national scholarship awards. Applicants will be considered on the basis of academic record, ex- tracurricular activities and community service, promise of service to their chosen field, and financial need. Applications may be obtained at the Student Activitues Office, and at the Financial Aid Office. Deadline ::,(or submission: March 1, 1985. ·i{?~J:-.::~ r·t ... ~~:;·~ ~r\. Winter Carnival Is Here! february 1-3 CONCORD/ENSIS. January 31, 1985 The National Society of PubUc Accountants (NSPA) is conducting a scholarship competition for ''students who have indicated a firm intention to pursue their accounting studies to a successful con- clusian and who have indicated a desire to enter the profession of public accounting.\ For more information and an application, write to: NSPA Scholarship Foundation; 1010 North Fairfan St., Alexandria, VA 22314. Deadline for submission: February 28, 1985. The Society of Exploration Geophysicists ( SEG) is offering more than 107 awards of $750 to $2,000 to students enrolled in a course of study that will lead to a career in exploration geophysics. For more in- formation and an application, write to: SEG Education Foundation, P.O. Box 3098, Tulsa, OK 74101. Deadline for submission: March 1, 1985. FELLOWSHIPS The National Italian American Foundation (NIAF) is offering graduate fellowships to Americans of Italian descent, majoring in government, political science, or public and- or international affairs. The fellowship is a three-month internship with a Congressional committee in Washington, D.C. For further information, call (202) 293-1713, or write to: NIAF, Graduate Legislative Fellowship Program, 1019 19th St. NW, Washington, DC 20036. Deadline for submission: March 15, 1985. The American Consulting Engineers Council (ACEC) is offering a two-year award worth $4,000 for expenses, full tuition and fees, and up to $1,500 in thesis research costs. The successful candidate will have a bachelor's degree in Civil Engineering or Geology and planning to pursue an advanced degree to become an engineer in applied earth sciences. Applications and additional information are available in the Financial Aid Office. Deadline: March 15, 1985. ACROSS 44 Piece of dinnerware 45 Blt1er velcll INTERNSHIPS Applications are now being accepted for the 1985 pre-career practicwn in mental health offered for the 14th summer by The New York Hospital•Cornell Medical Center, Westchester Division. The eight week program which begins June 10 is open to college students and combines structured, staff- supervised patient assignments · with professionally conducted seminars and lectures. Students interested in careers in social work, psychiatry, medicine, recreational therapy, nursing and psychology will have an opportunity to explore the many disciplines of a university-based psychiatric hospitaL Interested applicants are 'asked to contact Diane Clark, Director, Volunteer Depart- ment, The New Yorlt Hospital- Cornell Medical Center, Westchester Division, 21 Bloomingdale Road, White Plains, New York 10605 (915) 997-5780. SPEAKERS. Kenner will give a lecture on \James Joyce and the Printing Press\ Wednesday, Feb. 6, at 8 p.m. in the Social Sciences Building, Room 016, followed by a reception in Milano . Lounge, Carnegie Hall. The talk is free and open to the public. While on campus, Kenner will lectuture in a variety of classes and will be available for in- formal meetings with students and faculty. CLUJJNEWS AMNESTY INTERNATI- ONAL will be meeting· on Tuesday nights at 7: 30 in stage 2 of Carnegie this term. New members are welcome. Newman Folk Group-sunday evenings at 6:30 p.m. AU singers and musicians meet with Friar Paul to prepare for the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members are welcome. Prayer-Scripture Study Groups-Monday, February 4 at 5 p.m. and Wednesday, February 6 at 11:30 a.m. with Sr. Joan in Religious Programs Office. Newman Meeting & Social- Luncheon Colloquium, Monday, February4 at 8 p.m. in winler-spring 1985, Thursday, the 4th Floor Lounge, Carnegie. February 7. \Making Spec- tacles of Themselves: Women & - Tutorial Program-Any Union Film\ Brenda Wineapple, student interested in tutoring Assoc. Prof. of English, Union Reading one hour a week College, Banquet Room Car- primarily to 2nd graders of St. negie, 12:30 p.m. Bring your Jolm the Evangelist School lunch-coffee and tea will be please contact Liz Karazim 370- provided. 6774. Frederick Hartwig, Chair- man and Associate Professor of Political Science, will lecture on ''Political Polling in American Democracy,'' Tuesday, February 19, at 4:30 p.m., SS016. Coffee and tea at 4:00 p.m. All are welcome to atte~d. Hugh Kenner, Andrew Mellon Professor of English at Johns Hopkins University, will be on the Union College campus Feb. 4-15 as Thomas Lamont Visiting Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature. ·His visit is sponsored by Union's English Department. Visit to Shut-Ins--Sunday, February 10. Members of the Newman Club will make a Valentine Visit and bring a flower to Shut-Ins of St. John the Evangelist Parish. Court Gestures comedy troupe to perform. Showtime is Thursday, February 7 at Cabaret. All members please be present, or be trapazoidal. 1 Mr. Premlnger 5 VIpers 9 Lock opener 12 Metal 13Den 47 Poet I r.::+.::~=:-1 :g~~=~i .... [!! 14 Mineral 15 Note of scale 16 Send lorth 18 Ventilate 20 Negative vote 22 Girl's name 24Armymeal 27 Former Russian ruler 29 Weakens 31 Unit of Slam- currency 32 Ascends 34 Game played on horseback 36 Sun god 37 Be present 39 Unit of currency 4,1 Execute 42 NoblemaA· ol : II! 52 Bubble 54 Symbol for sliver 55 Pennlt ., ~~Region 59 Printer's measure 61 Shoemaker's 1001 63 Assistant 65Crlppled 67 French plurll artk:lo . 68 Defeat 69 Time gone by DOWN 1 Lubricate 2 Fleeting 3 As far sa 4 Unll 5 Assumed name 8 Potty ruler 7 Greek letter Answers in next week's issue The Union College Pre-Law Society will ,hold its first meeting of the term tonight January 31, 7 p.m. in Straus~ Lounge, Carnegie. Topics to be discussed are: internships upcoming elections, futur~ speakers and the revision of the Pre-Law Handbook. Members and non-members are invited to attend. CLASS!FlEDS LOST: On.e silver earring during first week of term. Looks like a pendulwn with a silver Sphere on the end. REWARD. Call 6998. The Japan Experience: Come learn about the people, the culture, the life. The students returning from the term abroad in Japan will be having an in- formation and discussion session on Thursday, February 7 at 7:30 p.m. in 'Fox Lounge. Everyone is invited. FREE FALL PRESEN- TATIONS, LTD. is pleased to announce REO SPEEDWAGON in Concert at the Glens Falls Civic Center on Wednesday evening February 20; 1985, at 7: 30 p.m. Special guest is SURVIVOR. Tickets for the show go on sale Saturday, January 26, at the Civic Center Box Office, Ticetron, Book King in Rutland and Hilton Music Stores in Amsterdam, Clifton Country Mall and Troy. Tickets are priced at $13.50, all seats reserved. TYPING SERVICE: Top quality work. Reasonable rates. 399-0165. Capital District residents will have an opportunity to converse with Pulitzer • Prize winning author and /Albany native William Kennedy at The College of Saint Rose on Wednesday, February 6 at 7:30 p.m. in the CSR Activities Center, 404 ( I 1 • ~ j 1

first tonight, Strauss to be nships, future of the .... earring Looks silver WARD. Come the abroad an in- ~SEN­ to Falls at is go on 26, at in pl3.50, Top verse the 404 Western Avenue, Albany. Kennedy is author of Legs, Billy Phelan's Greatest Game, Ironweed, and o' Albany. Student typing done-Please contact 370-5222. Mt. Pleasant area. Typing done for students or professors. Please contact 370- 0692. Niskayuna area. The Film Conunittee presents on 2-1- 2-3 \All of Me\ at 7, 9, 11 p.m. On 2-5 \Last Tango in Paris\ at 8, 9:30, 12 (x). All films $1.00. Tickets on sale in Carnegie. Films shown in SS016. . ' HELP WANTED' $$$ Need Extra Money? For free information call Lee Ramsey collect at (615) 577-7237 after 6 p.m. Court Gestures (Bil~ Mary, Debbie, Dan, Nancy, Tim) Take the Cabaret .Room from lin- suspecting college, threaten to tran- sform it ·into a trapezoid Thursday, F eh. 7 Cabaret CONCORDIENS/S, January 31, 1985 Page 13 Furniture store needs strong help to do work .pertaining to furniture store. Part time help available for those who, can . drive a van. RAS ·Furniture, 823 Eastern Ave. 374--7785. PERSONAl-S WANT TO SEND A MESSAGE TO A FRIEND? Personals only 25 cents each and forms are available at the Box Office. Bring completed forms to the Concordy office Tuesday afternoon. DG's-I think it was from you. I have the right to censor- Marce Yearbook Meeting TODAY 7:30 Yearbook Off. (4th floor Carnegie) WE NEED YOUR HELP!- Missing! ! Have you seen CSO??? She was last seen in the computer center typing a program. If found please call... WANTED: 3 Senior Men for a casual but consistent relationship with 3 intelligent senior women. Must be in- telligent, athletic, able to hold liquor and able to handle an equal relationship. No con- current attachments, please. Independent preferred, but fraternity men accepted. The following need not apply: DU, Chi Psi, Psi U, Sig Chi, ZBT, Kappa .Sig, ... Oh, never mind. Cyndi Lou Who .I always believed you could do it!!!! DJ-ooh, so squeezably soft it's irrestible! \Frankie goes to Davidson.\ Robin and Amy, Welcome back. we missed you. Love, Faye and Susan Phillipe. We hear that you're still withered and that it's having an effect on your social · life. We warned you. The Tuesday Luncheon Club. To the Messiah: Did you get .the message I sent you the other LOOK FOR JSU RAFFLE February 4-8 Proceeds to Benefit Ethiopian Jewry· 1st Prize--All expenses paid weekend at Grossingers night'?' The flying circuits; -the three foot Jesus. Yes, my son, they were all reaL. ... Spread the word! The Lord. Anne Marie--thanks for two WONDERFUL nights! We'll never forget you! Love, The Boys Skating Dutchmen- Congrats on a 'super weekend!! Keep it going in Salem tonight Can't wait for Saturday .. Go Garnet,. Go! ! ! To Debbie and Joann~You sure missed the best CP bowlathon. Six hours and we even went to Albany to pick up the trophy! We even got some great reading material too! Hey B WADE! Nice going. I didn't know you could go back in time. How was the meeting? Did we discuss the tennis party? Maybe we could have another one last mon.th. Get some sleep! KIMBO-Your fabulous roommates are psyched to have learned something v~ry . in- · teresting and very awa.Kening: THAT A HIP HAS A WHOLE! ! (HA, HA, HA) Love ya, VAL & J.J. \Save the Skeller sit in\ in Dean Massa's office. For all those interested in handing out pamphlets or making t-shirts, please contact Chris K. We need your support!!! ADAM H., How did you ever get the name--Mr. BIG! ! ! I'll never understand that one. LOVE,AMYK. P.S. Do you still have a single? Oh Michele! You're sooooo cute! Uh huh!! Hey U.C. did you check Tim, Nancy, Bill, Mary, Dan and Debbie at the fantastic Court Gestures Show? What you mean it hasn't happened yet. Oh, it's at Cabaret Thursday, Feb. 7. Be there U.C. OR BE Trapazoidal. Hail-Constantine Spiro Zog Andrew George, Counselor to God on Earth. \Life has been one giant bong-hit since I left.\ F.S. Everyone interested in being apart of Orientation CommiHee Applications are now available in the Office of Student Affairs. They will be due Feb. 11; interv.iews begin on Feb.J8. Pick up your application today. t'ASS \ ee

Pagel4 CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1985 Phi Delta's Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps f~r $44 through the U.S. 8th Annual TACO Sat., February 2nd Government? Get the facts today'! · After the Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 4'269 Hockey-Game and UILA Live D.J~~ PRESENTS Act 1: LUKE FANNON and Act II: BOB HARTMAN & TIM MICHAL with M.Ca BOB VAN VORIS Tonite at 9:00 & 11:00 · · Tickets on sale now at student activities desk. Proper ID required. If interested in waitressing/waitering call Debbie or Diane at x6475. If interested in performing or MCing call Luke at X6146.1 · Ser-ving beer, red and white wine, Sue's non-alcoholic punch Cit actually tastes very good!!) and munchies. SPRING BREAK MARCH 23-30,1985 Bahamas Nassau/Paradise Island From $31.9 Complete Package Complete Package Includes: *Roundtrip air transportation from New York *Roundtrip transfers from Nassau airport to hotel *7 nights hotel accommodations *Welcome Rum Swizzle and one hour rum party *A party night cruise on the Calypso with unlimited rum punch and a live calypso band *Services of professional tour escort on location • *Exclusive Summit Tours discount card *Exclusive free admission to the Palace Disco, Drumbeat Club, and Valentine's *All taxes, energy surcharge, and gratuities- No hidden charges Ft. Lauderdale, Florida Roundtrip Air from $198 From $129 Hotel Only Complete Package Includes: *7 nights hotel accommOdations at prime locations on the strip including The Holiday l.nn Oceanside (Home of the \Button Bar\) *Welcome Party with free beer *-Professional tour escort on location *All taxes and gratuities. No hidden charges 9 0ptional roundtrip air transportation from New York, or Boston *Roundtrip transfers from airport to the Hotel Limited Space!! Sign Up NowU For more Information cQntact: Christina Corso Phone 370-6418 Box 1558 Trips a I so available to Daytona, Florida and Freeport, Bahamas Summit Tours of Englewood, Colorado is licensed and bonded by the Interstate Commerce Commission ~----------------~- OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT- · WORLD-SIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEN AND WOMEN! JAPAN · EUROPE - AFRICA - AUSTRALIA · THE SOUTH , PACIFIC-SOUTHAMERICA·THEFAR EAST. EXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGHER SALARIES AND WAGES! FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS! More than 300,000 Americans - not including members of the armed services - are now living overseas. These people are engaged in nearly everypossible activi· ty ... construction, engineer- ing, sales, transportation, secretarial work, accoun- ting, manufacturing, oil refining, teaching, nursing, government, etc.-etc. And many are earning $2,000 to $5,000per month ... or more! To allow you the op· portuni ty to apply for overseas employment, we have researched and cornpil· · ed a new and exciting direc- , tory on overseas employ- ment. Here is just a sample of w.hat our International Employment Directory covers. ( 1). Our International Employment Directory lists dozens of cruise ship com- panies, both on the east and west coast. You will be told what type of positions the cruise ship companies hire, such as deck hands, restaurant help, cook's, bartenders, just to name a few. You will also receive several Employment Ap- plication Forms that you may send directly to the companies you would like to work for. (2). Firms and organiza- tions employing all types of per~onnel in Australia, Japan, Africa, The South Pacific, The Far East, South America ... nearly every part of the free world! (3). Companies and Governm~nt agencies employing personnel in near- ly every occupation, from the unskilled laborer to the college trained professional man or woman. (4). Fkms and organiza- tions engaged in foreign con- struction projects, m;~nufac­ turing, mining, oil refining, engineering, sales, services, teaching, etc., etc. ( 5). How and where to ap- ply for overseas Government jobs. (6). Information about summer jobs. (7). You will receive our Employment Opportunity Digest. .. jam-packed with in- formation about current job opportunities. Special sec- tions features news of overseas construction pro- jects, executive positions and teaching opportunities. 90DayMoney Back Guarantee Our International Employ- ment Directory is sent to you with this guarantee. If for any reason yoli do not obtain overseas employment or you are not satisfied with the job offers ... simply return our . Directory within 90 days and we'll refund your money pro- niptly ... no questions asked. ORDER FORM International Employment Directory 131 Elma Dr. Dept. T21 Centralia, W A 98531 Please send me a copy of your International Employment Directory. I understand that I may use this information for 90 days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return your Directory for an immediate refund. On that basis I'm enclosing $20.00 cash .... check .... or money order .... for your Directory. NAME ____________ ~~~----------~----- please print ADDRESS _______________ APT#--------------~ CITY ____________ STATE ________________ ZIP International Employment Directory 1984 - ( Tri Me Ch sp< Mt pa Fe XI 1 Je (vi (v: St' Ho ar« all wo pe1 in ne Sti ha pel COl COl thE Th hol th< m m K: ce· ffi( frc Ac va Tr wi: COl dif blE m< to~ wt

~MEN! South South part and c ie s near- from the sional con- vices, ap- our unity in- job see- s of pro- es. you f for btain you e job our and ~d. 90 CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1985 'Page 15 Trio Performs By JANICE C. THOMPSON Arts Staff On Thursday, January 24, the Trio Ludwig performed an all- Mozart concert in Memorial Chapel. This performance was sponsored by the Schenectady Museum and Union College, as part of an International Festival of Chamber Music XIII. next by coordinating body and bow movements. ·This kind of visible performance enabled the audience to see the care that the musicians used when they played. . THE ARTS The members of the Trio, Jean-Jacques Kantorow (violin), Vladimir Mendelssohn (viola), and Herre-Jan Stegenga (cello) are from Holland. All three have toured around the world, recorded albums under many labels, and won different musical com- petitions. They joined together in 1979, in order \to serve the neglected literature of the String Trio''~ Their repertoire is hardly homogeneous; they perform works by classical and contemporary composers alike. After the fifteen minute in- termission, Herre-Jan Stegenga remained off.,stage as the other two played the Duo in G major, K.V. 423, for violin and viola. The trick in playing Mozart's music, many people believe, is to make the difficult technique sound simple and melodic. Mr. Kantorow and Mr. Mendelssohn accomplished this in the three movements of the Duo, displaying great control and precision in the music. Pianist Lory W allfisch, a professor of Music at Smith College, and Mr. Stegenga joined the duo to perform the last selection, the Quartet in G minor, K.V. 478, for piano, violin, viola and cello. This Quartet has traditionally been one of the best-known Mozart pieces, being dramatic, exciting, and an appropriate ending to a thoroughly en- joyable evening. Mrs. Wallfisch Jo.;~n Jett and the Blackhearts will be performing at 11 p.m. tonight at the Skyway on Rout~ 50 in Scotia. Tickets are $11 at S;trawberry's or$15 aUhedoor. Borofsky at the Whitney \Skill and Finesse\ W.A. Mozart, however, is the composer of all the pieces that the Trio Ludwig played last Thursday. This eonceii was in honor of Mozart's 229th bir- thday, which is January 27, 1756. The first selection was the Divertimento in E flat major, K.V. 563, for violin, viola and cello. It . involves ·six movements, whose styles range from the slow drama of the Adagio to the theme and variations of the Andante. The Trio handled these differences with skill ,and finesse, able to conquer the swift, technically difficult passages as well as blend beautifully in the slower movements. The three played together very. well, knowing what the other two would do Announcing the membership of the newly-formed Union College Choir. Congratulations! Anderson, Seth Bliss, Winston Bolster, Gardiner Budka, Ken Cardamone, Regan Carroll, Mary Davis, Earle Delisio, John DelRosario, Peter Feeney, Tricia · showed great talent in· her performance, adding much feeling and depth to the •other three parts. Any person who appreciates fine chamber music, generally pla_yed by small groups, should take advantage of the Concert Series, of which the Trio Ludwig is a part. The next concert of this series will be on Friday, February 15 at 7:30, a per- formance consisting of Mozart's Cosi Fan Tutte played by the Monadnock Music Chamber Orchestra. There .is always a number of tickets available, at no charge to the Union community, at Mrs. Marra's office before the concert. Gagliano, Lynda Giambo, Joanne Hirschman, Jeff Holt, Mary Hoople, Christopher Hotchkiss, Philip Hutchins, Mark Hutchinson, Carolyn Lehman, Lisa Lindquist, David Mozayeni, Reza Nadeau, Paula O'Connell, Eileen O'Dell, Stuart By LINDA RAFFAELE Arts Editor On Wednesday, January 23, the students from this term's Introduction to the Studio Arts class (Arts 11) took a field trip to New York City to view the Borofsky Exhibit at the Whitney Museum. The students were accompanied by Professors John Borsch,, Charles Steckler, and Alex Markhoff. It was well worth the three-hour trip into the city; the exhibit is a masterpiece. Jonathan Borofsky is one of the most original artists working today. Borofsky earned his un- dergraduate degree at Car- negie-Mellon in Pittsburgh in 1964 and went on to get a Masters in Fine Arts at Yale. After graduate school, Borofsky preferred to simply think about art rather than to create it. He began to get very interested in Osler, Bruce Panas, Sharon Platt, Meserve Pond, Barbara Praus, Diana Remy,.Eddy Rightmire, Deni Stake, Amy 1llompson,Debbie Tuckman, Aylene Webster, Drena Webster, Mark Wetherell, Leona QBK-FM-104, Budweiser and the RPI Houston Fieldhouse announce the \incredible 104 FM Rock and Roll Party II\ scheduled for Saturday, February 2 at 7:30p.m. in the RPI Houston Fieldhouse in Troy, New York. Duplicating the sell-out format of the first QBK-104-FM rock and roll party in September, \Rock and Roll. Party II\ will featt:Jre four major bands: Marshall Crenshaw, Steve Forbert, ihe Sharks plus Johny Rabb-Eddie Angel and the Jail House Rockers. An. extremely low admission price of only $4.00 per person entitles ticketholders to hear all four bands. 1 n addition, soda, beer and a variety of food will be available a~ ~ell as approximately twenty capital district businesses with displays, exh1b1ts and demonstrations for all to enjoy. A New Year! A New Youl There's a slim new You hiding under those unwanted pounds. You can lose 1 0·30 lbs. This Month! Guaranteed results with safe, proven formula. Send only $39 (check or money order) for 4 weeks supply to: CARTER ASSOCOIATES, P .0. Box 697 Hermosa Beach, CA 90254 numbers. From ·1969 until 1971 or 1972. he counted on paper continuously. (The current exhibit at the Whitney includes a pile of papers three feet high on which Borofsky coWlted from 1 to 2,927,515.) To break the monotony of this coWiting, he began to paint again. In 1972, he made a small painting and ,assigned it a number from his counting sequence. Since then, Borofsky has continued to number his paintings, sculpture, and drawings, usually in the area where his signature might ordinarily appear. Borofsky's current exhibit is located on the fourth floor of the Whitney Museum on 75th and Madison. After stepping off the huge elevator which goes up to the fourth floor, the viewer enters Borofsky's world-a world of numbers, misshapen figures, music created by a computer, chattering dummies, and flashing neon lights. One feels almost trapped inside the mind of a disturbed human being. \Personal Feelings\ Expression of The exhibit is a very personal expression of Borofsky's feelings about himself, his life, and his environment. Many of his themes for his paintings are taken from recent dreams. One especially interesting work is entitled \Dream No. ' (I'm walking down the streets of some strange town with my mother. I hustle with my mother and a huge crowd into a supermarket for protection)'' in which Borofsky brings to life his dream that he and his mother were being · pursued by criminals and found protection in a supermarket. The work is painted as a series of images, somewhat like a cartoon, that stretch across an entire wall. Another interesting piece is his ping-pong table entitled, \Feel Free to Play.\ Borofsky took an ordinary ping-pong table and' paintedthe surface in a camoflauge design. On one side of the net he painted the United States' 1984 defense budget and that of the Soviet Union on the other. On the outer edges of the camoflauged surface read \For De-fence 1984-Wasted in Fear of One Another.\ Borofsky invites the public to play, but afterwards says, \But.how can you feel free to play? Don't all of us feel the tension?\ On a lighter note, the exhibit features a lot of exciting moveable sculpture. There are a few \chattering men.\ These grey wooden sculptures with moveable mouths are attached to tape recorders that con- tinually emit the word \chat- ter.\ There is also \The Friendly Giant,\ a huge man made of bubble wrap, aluminum, and steel, with a motor that moves his body (positioned as if waiting for the gun to .go off at a race) up and down. \The Dancing Clown\ is a clown's head on a ballerina's body with one toe on point and the other leg bent out and twirling around. The background music at the exhibit is created by a computer named Reggie, which creates music from numbers. A seven- digit number is fed into Reggie, which returns with a scale, notes, duration, and intervals. The pattern is then transferred to a voice through a series of tape edits. The music created sets an eerie tone for the exhibit. Among the possible noises heard by the listener are: an owl, tropical birds, water running, an angry cat, sawing wood, a dentist drill, a wine glass, a tire pump, a dog, laughter, machine guns, and pigs. Also heard in the background is a strange ren- dition of Frank Sinatra's \My Way.\ Overall, the exhibit is a wonder. No writer, no matter how well~versed, could convey the full extent of Borofsky's message in words. To revise an old cliche but keep its meaning true, one piece of Borofsky's art says a thousand words. Not only does Borofsky reveal himself in his work, but he makes a statement about all of society. He stresses the importance of the individual. He wants people to realize how important they are. The Borofsky Exhibit will be on display at the Whitney until March 10. If you get a chance to get into the city by then, try to catch it. It's definitely well worth your while. Incidentally, admission is free for college students. Remember the· student discount at Proctor's; V2 price tickets are available to students 1 hr. before each show depending on availability. ..

Page 16 I CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1985 TH.E ARTS lmprov Continues to Shine >- .ll:: tJI c: E Ill ~ >- t... !... Ill ...J > .0 0 0 ..c: Q. Wendy Richards p.Jrformed last Thursd51Y night as Cabaret began its new season. By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Staff Several years ago, when I first heard Laurie Anderson, I thought I was hearing avante- garde music at its most avante- garde. Here was a performer chanting minimalist poetry in her haunting voice, ac- companied by a lonely violin- very enjoyable, to be sure, but nothing could be stranger. I thought. I changed my mind about two minutes into Julie Kabat's second \song\ last Friday night as she performed at Union. The piece was called \Tapestry a self-described signature song that Kabat introduced as letting her voice \do what it wants to do,\ which is usually \just to play.'' Then the woman proceeded-tetany u.naccom- oanied-to let leose a wild series of notes, with no melodic structure, that explored a variety of moods and emotions. She began by singing, relying heavily on facial expressions and body movements to com- municate the theme ·of the ·cabaret Lives Again By DEBBIE ALBERT and BRIAN LAUX The signs and ads all hailed the triumphant return of Cabaret to Union's campus after its brief appearance and disappearance last fall. With Master of Ceremonies Luke Fannon at the helm, the new season opened in grand fashion. Luke, a familiar face to Cabaret audiences (and to Dutchman football fans), opened the show with some stand-up comedy and a rare display of musical talent. He treated the packed house to a rendition of one of his Grand- father's favorite Irish \folk\ songs-\Seven Old Ladies Were Stuck in the Lavatory.\ After this brief venture into the world of song, the MC returned to his forte, juggling. He provided only a tease for his fans who will have the chance to see him perform his entire act. Luke then turned the stage over to Wendy Richards for the first act. With Olivia Listzwan providing accompaniment on piano, Wendy performed a variety of contemporary popular hits from such artists as James Taylor, Lihda Ron- stadt, The Eagles, and Cyndi Lauper. Perhaps the highlight of Wendy's act came in_ her beautiful and captivating rendition of \All Good Gifts\ from the Godspell soundtrack. Following the intermission, the pace was changed by the Court Gestures to perform •.• entrance of Scott Remillard and his ,jazz band \Just Here.\ They played some old jazz and new jazz favorites, r:anging from \Summertime\ by George Gershwin to \One Finger Snap\ by Herbie Hancock. Even those who are not jazz enthusiasts, myself included, found the per- formance extremely enjoyable. The ease with which they moved from solo to solo and the tight polished performances of the individual members proved how professional the band is. The show lived up to its ad-: vance billing, and· we hope that more people will take ad- vantage of the talents which Union students' provide for the community. Order in the Court! ByTIMLOWRY A solution for those Union College students who find themselves slipping into a life of apathy: fight it and pledge your presence at all future Court Gesture shows. Who knows, you may even be swooped from your seat (literally) be made into a prop, or be subjected to other forms of humiliation. The Court Gestures Improvisational Comedy Troupe has all new reviews, acts, and trained animals (well; Debbie., Nancy, and Dan are almost housebroken). We even have a juggler and a singing duet (it's actually one and a half, but we call it a duet). This rib-tickling bWlch con- sists of Mary Carroll somewhere in left field, Bill Carey chasing after the cheerleaders, and Tim Lowry tunnelling from first to third. The dirt from the tunnel is being deposited on the pitcher's mound where Debbie Gollin (friend of Bilbo) stands perched seven feet higher than home plate. On home is Nancy Greenhaus who's trying to get a home run from the catcher Dan Brotman. When she's finished with that, she hopes to get a hit. Dan calls the pitch, it's thrown by Debbie and Mary catches it but proceeds to drop it when she sees Bill come careening towards her in an attempt to save Tim from suffocating in his tunnel. · And ~uddenly, out walks Mike Mahony, our humble stumbling manager, to clean the mess that has been created on the playing field. He pulls out a litter box and all is spic and span. And so goes another day in the life of the Court Gestures . . . . . . . . This epic adventure to be . continued Thursday, February 7, at the Cabaret. The Arts Department at Union will exhibit a portfolio of photographs titled ''A Hungarian Memory'' by Andre Kertesz. This recent acquisition of 15 photographs I a gift to the College by Edward A. Shapiro I Union Class of 1962, can be viewed in the new Student Forum of the Arts Building through March .7. ·····~························ notes, and ended in a mock- language conversation that I can only describe as Andy Kaufman's Latka Gravas on speed; the \words\ were quick, highly animated, and often (as intended) quite ,.comical. As far as musical convention is concerned, Julie Kabat makes Laurie Anderson sound like Air Supply. Anderson, after all, does play traditional in• struments--violin, cello, saxophone. Kabat's approach is somewhat different. In her show on Friday, she played glass harmonium (a name she has given to a series of water- filled glasses which produce resonant notes when the lip of the glass is stroked), African bongo-type drwns, a saw-yes, a saw-and a small jar of water that she struck with a mallet to produce sound. In addition to this, she was accompanied by flutist Steve Gorn, who played North Indian bamboo flute music to Kabat's arrangments. Needless to say, all of this combined to form an evening of amazingly melodic, totally original, and eften brilliant music. Kabat is a local talent, but she is known throughout the country, as is Gorn. The- two performed together for the first time on Friday, but the blend was as natural as if they had been dueting for years. In their first piece, Kabat played her glasses and sang in ethereal tones while Gorn mastered his flute, punctuating her music at just the right moments. It was a rare display of inventive songcraft coupled with in- dividual stylings, and the audience was held captive throughout it, largely because of its musical impact, but also due to its sheer newness of sound. The duo closed the first half of their set with a fascinating combination of artistic styles: · literary and musical. While Gorn blew his horn (sorry), Kabat accompanied herself on her various inStruments and also read selections from four Robert Bly poems, poems she described as possessing \illuminating surrealism.\ The result was an ingenious com- position that was as intricate musically as it was lyrically. After a brief intermission, Gorn returned to do a solo number. Here, those who at- tended last term's concert of South Indian flute music (part of the same series) got to compare the two styles-they are vastly different; North stresses notes and embellishes around' them, while South concentrates on melody and succession. Next came To The Market, a tune Kabat described as full of \humor in which she played the drums and Gorn experimented with a com- bination of flutes. Again, the 1:!-nique sound and wildly creative music had the audience spellbound. But perhaps the most spec- tacular selection was the last piece. Accompanied only by an accordian•like drone box, the pair sang harmony together, first in chanted notes, then in chords. By using their mouths as filters, in much the same way as filters on many instruments work, they were actually able to sing two distinct notes at once . Such a feat requires incredible control and conditioning, and is the mark of two truly masterful performers. The concert inaQgurated the new Concert Hall in the Arts Building, and Professor Hilary Tann, who co-ordinated the show, said she is pleased with the new hall's accoustics, as well as with the evening's en- tertainment. She stressed the impact of seeing a concert like this, and the electricity that is lost in recorded reproductions (though the concert was taped for airplay by WMHT). Kabat seems to agree with this philosophy-none of the songs • she performed appear on her forthcoming album. A large crowd turned out for this, the third in the Traditions of Improvisation concert series, presented by the Arts Depart- ment, and the audience was very enthusiastic (in fact, Gorn sold out copies of his albwn he brought with him). The next concert in the series will be an Introduction to the music of West Africa, on February 22. It •' will feature a twelve-piece band, and members of the audience will be encouraged to dance. Kabat's just-released album, Kabat On---.'J.'he Edge, can be obtained by calling (518) 438- 8359. I haven't heard it myself, but if Friday night's concert was any indication, anyone interested in hearing exciting, innovative, wholly different music will want to own a copy. You, too, can become involved in Union's only weekly newspaper! Concordiensis Seeks Writers, Artists and Photograhers Call Gayle 6685 Marcy 393-0612 or send your name and telephone number toBox2577 ...

~ (part to ... they North South ~ and The ~ribed ~hshe Gorn com- the the spec- ~ last by an the in bleto once. is the Arts the with as s en- the like is bat q this • her for ~ries, was he next an of It •' the to be 438- .. CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1985 Page 17 The Bloodmobile is Coming Feb. 13, 14 & 15 a unique opportunity for The need for Type 0 Blood is greatest but A · and 8 are in short supply as well. Strauss Lounge 11 a.m. -4 p.m. CLua· HEADS: Advertise your meeting ln the Classifieds. THE '1\TILLIAMS COLLEGE MYSTIC SEAPORT PROGRAM IN AMERICAN MARITIME STUDIES For Further Information See Dean William Daniels Application Deadline: Feb. 8 WINTER CARNIVAL February 1· 3 Save the Dates! -Civil .Eng·ineers- For you and the world itself. As a Peace Corps volunteer, you can put your deg~ee to work at a challenging, demanding and unique oppor- tunity. You'll be meeting new people, learn- ing a new language, experiencing a new culture and gaining a whole new outlook. And while you're building your future, you'll help peo- ple in developing countries plan, design, and construct mads, buildings, sanitation sys- tems, dams, bridges, canals or other struc- tun:Js which are critical for meeting their economic needs. Math/Science majors welcomed. Information sessions 7 PM, Mar. ll t Placement interviews on Mar. 12th, 9 - 4 PM. Call career resources for more information. \Hair Today, Gone Tof!lorrow\ PERMANENT HAIR REMOVAL We use the all new short wave instantronelectrolysis equipment featuring and providing the best, most comfortable treatment for the removal of unwanted hair on the face, arms, legs and body. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• * Free Consultation * Free Demonstration * * Free Brochure on Request * FREE TREATMENT And 20 % off any future treatments within 30 days New patients only when ad is presented on initial visit at one location only--valid thru 2/9/85 *ALICEA. BAKER INC.* Established 1972 • Graduate of Kree Institute Member of N.Y.E.A., A.E.A. and The G1,1ild 127 Canal Square, Schenectady • 382-0087 CCA-31 363 Central Avenue, Albany • 462-5678 Rock-n-Ro/1 Pizza Pub Presents This Week's Special: BUY ONE TACO-GET A SMALL SODA FREE Other Rock-n .. Roll Fa~orites Fresh Popcorn--$.25 • $.50 • $.75 Del icous Pizza--$.75/sl ice • 6-cut $3.75 • B·cut $4.85 Submarine Sandwiches Roast Beef,Turkey, Tuna··$1.50 mini • $2.50 whole Italian Mixed, Ham--$1.25 mini o $'2.50 whole The Rock-n-Roll Pizza Pu~ The Alternative Fast Food Experience Delivery is ·free on orders of $3.75 or more Open: 1:30-11 :30p.m. Mon., Wed., Thurs. and Sun. ···~··*••••••••••••••~~~~~~-1=-~_-l_:_oo_a_.m_._T_u_~_.,_F_r_i.,_s_at_.~~~~~~

Page 18 CONCORD/ENS/~ January ~1, 1985 SPORTS .. . Lucky Sevens Prevail ByP.U.S.I.S. Sports Staff Hockey is a lot like craps-if you keep rolling sevens, you're boWld to keep winning, and if you roll snake eyes, you will lose. Actually, what this has to do with hockey is beyond this reporters' grasp, but as far as Dutchmen hockey was con· cerned last week, seven was their lucky nwnber, as they beat all three opponents by scoring seven goals: 7-4 over Middlebury, 7-1 over Buffalo, and 7-4 over Geneseo. And luck had nothing to do with it-Union was definitely the better team on the ice for all three contests. Vl <II Cl.1 I.. a. .... 0 u (/) >- .c .!2 0 s::: Q. Co-captain u .• aJIILlefijltigt,it'ilfi'E what was p·~rblaps game as a co1Ieilran, a hat-trick against the IMi!ddllebt.ll'~ thers 'last We~EiSdciY period ended Although the final score was 7-1, the Buffalo game was ac- tually a good contest after the first period. But Union, ob- viously the stronger team, pulled away from the Bulls in the final two stanzas. Seven different people scored for the Dutchmen, including Nelson Said and Gary Temush, newcomers to the squad this year. In Geneseo, Union broke out to a 1-0 lead, as Touuny Hodgins got Union out to a fast start. The classy, supportive Geneseo fans showed their appreciation of hockey by plwnmeting about 25 tennis balls onto the ice. Senior Winger Sean Wills (23) works the boards .as Scott Cyr (18) ·looks for a loose puck. away from Geneseo, as they were eager to get out .of the thriving and exciting greater Buffalo area after such displays of stupidity with a couple -of strong wins. They did, and are now on a five game winning streak. Not only that, but they have this Wednesday off, so they can have no qualms about watching Dynasty this week -before Thursday's game at Salem State, and before the Winter Carnival Match against perrennial Winter Carnival arch-rival Merrimack. The Bloodmobi.l·e Is Coming February 13/ 14 & 15 The need for Type 0 Blood is greatest but A and B are in short .supply as well Senior Co-Captain Gill Egan stuffs one of his two goals on Mid- dlebury's Keith Pucker in Union's 7-4 victQry. Not exactly feeling at home, The Dutchmen quickly pulled Strauss Lounge 11 a.m.-4 p.m8 Drop in to the area's newest ~ restau.l'an; and get acquainted with Great Food • Great Ice Creatn Great Fun New Location 60 Nott Terrace. Schenectady :: .; . ::: .:· :; Eastern Avenue Union Street Union College . ·: '; Present this coupon at the newest Friendly® Restaurant at 60 Nott Terrace, Schenectady, New York. This coupon entitles the bearer up to $1.00 off any food or ice cream product served in the restaurant including take-home products. No cash exchange is permitted with the redemption of this coupon in the event the product selected is less than $1.00. Expiration date: February 28, 1985 PLUS TAX WHERE APPLICABLE 71itVU!foJ. restaurants,., . , ~ J .J .. ~I\.. ;J:. 1 1. ~==:::=:::::::::~===~=~==~~=========~.~-,::, •;'i~'~- =.==. =. ::,====,= .. =. =. • ==::::=== .. ,=-~, ~•-.• .~,_,=.,;_,~!~>-. ~'17:01:7/ ;J 1..=, ~tjl~lt~f <~'sl~ll~!\IV~~ I: t J.J'.J.r. \ ' ~.\'. \! .......... ~ ..... • , • • ••• • ••• ·-...J- ....... ·~~-¥tt.'C..,.Jt\\J;}~Io·~ltl'A~.:...,. ......... ~'!.U'..: ).,.., •• _,~.._ ··\'\····=-.,.~·- .. ~ .. _ ,J .Jtl;:,iv..rt·'15k \' \' II! ~ a. +- .... 0 u Vl :>. .c 0 .... 0 ~ c. - I I< t· \ -E 0 s::: 0.: Cl (/) s t c r 1 r

' I I I , '\ -· '' -· ' -' '- , I >1~ l'.l. SLS. :~f>.•P.<, ;.;t;,~fr Htrt kt·: '' ;, l11t IJIH· craps :f ~u het p r~·lliia: ·\t:'\·en... \'nt(rt· ~Huu :,, ktoep v.1nnmg. ~md :f ~·'L roll snakt· eyes. you wtll ;, ..,,. \d !Ia!!:.. what this has~<· ,: '.\:::C :·,,, kf';. Is beyond thl> r· ;), ~! .. ,Ts ~:rasp. but a!-i far d~ i '.l(\''.lliPil hocke~- wa~ cun· '•Tllt~l l iJSI Wt>('k, St'\'t•n Wa:-. t~1P1r iu<'ky numtwr. as tht>~ tl\';1! .I! I t hn>t• \Pponenh b\ '· ·•r\llh' SP\'f'n 1 'o<l.]s· 7-1 on·r ·.1, ldlt·~~ury. ·,-J nver Huffetln. ·<d ~-4 ·'\tor I;Pnest't' And luck ~ •• H! fll•lhirit.; tn ri0 WJth It L'nton was df>fmttl'lv !ht• tYe!tt:>r t('C!!Jl on tht· H'f' f,,r- all thrt•(• contt•st~ '' r Is__ ', \ ' I;' ;. ! ! l 'I ,, I r .:: ' .:: t 1 'i n H '1 :I (• . ,-::-.,'- '0, i(' ·.·;.n (~'), (')' iJ -~» \~p· ,, fo-d - .. , :~;~t:1l:·: ,J:1fl,i,. Knn~ht h;,1d .\! ;t· 1 \'*;t:-- il't'Ch~q.~-.. ftl> !.l!lt·Sl ~<.Hnt· as a l'Oilegtan, a.~ he had ~~.t1~tn, k -tnd fin· P·umts .!f.::nns( trw \1Jddlebun I'an- 1tlt'r~ las1 Wt·dnesd;n The ftrst !K'riod l'ndt>d lied a·t three. as \Ltldkh:Jn. lt·d b~ thrtr :.un \ 'h.p K··n~,,n, pl ~,.·st h .. ~·kt'\ ill the f1 Whtk. ,,n ttw 11ther pi~~~ t·d tht'Ir v.,;r~'t ('hlllt'fi ( ;!IJJt> out nilt. !lllt•n,tty. and -,eemed as if would ratlwr haw been <'htng Dynasty Th\' pucksters caml' out ln !hi' sPmnd p:'nod and t1• p];Jy t!w typ<· of h11( · they ;1n· ('apablt· 1''- ----- ~ - - - ·- ---- -- ----- ' ·' '' ;l / tl\'~ \ ,;;c)i \ ;,-: \;;~ u ~// ~~-- .... 9\'\ \ )< t.\~a •< ··~---.:.: \J /./ ::. L)ref·h~L-, k.~;1,:: p~· ked .lf~ ~-~~\­ dt>{l.'!lSP f:W(!:1n f.. ~tt·p If' .t!)t! play tht' mar\ and mov:-;t 1m portan{lv the level .,r rntemdt\ sPl'l!H.'U ~n~atty mercased The Outchnwn '.s offt>nse began to swarm all over Pan- tht·r hnalit• Ken Pucker. wtw ha.s bet'll a thorn in the sllit• of \iorrtsun's squad smce days. Union hadn't Maldlebury in their last ing:;, and Pucker was when the twu . Hu\H.'\'l'r. all potentta . .·\itlwugll 1 he fm;•l 'l'ort· \\ ;ts -; 1. ~ht· Buffal~~ ~~Hlit_' \\<t~ ac- , ll:t::,:- ;, ._:o,.,J ,.,,tllt·:-;t dfter tlw 'Jr'-'; pvnud t)d( t·m\n. ,.1_,_ '.·~i,,~:--1\ ~t:c >~r .. r~~t_·r tt'dllL ;~·;l:t\i d-,,~j·. :;·:d:. t:;~. Hll;~:- ir1 ~t.t :~~~-;c~: t·.•,. L·~.·n~/·'' ~\':\ liff,-r,·t.: ~H ··I~i·· ~ .~r~ ,; ltl~- :ht· i:,i ',·!. \,·: :--. 1fi ).t:: i : ; l I ~ t I : j ', \ l ~ · 1 r • _ ~ ... l1 , ; i !. · \\ ·, 't I J : , 1 ~- '-, \ ( : t :· ir. t ~t :.' .~~.·~. l :.:·•:: ::r,,k_,. ··L11 11 :i .-t! ;t'd(L ~J, T•.:;,:J~_·. fftiiL.::rr- - cd : ... ·~:t,·~ qtl~ · 1 ,j ~;~-..,i <llrl ·;·:~l· Li>\:·. .<.pp11;~ :\·~ ( ~~·;,(·.-...··,. !.tri:-- -:rA,)·,,~ t1 :h:..·l: :q;;n ,., .d~ulr: .11· ~ll~<·~:c~ :J:~ phun:~~~ ~llJ.., ~dJ(I1J[ .!.;J '\·:u ••. - :,~~L:-.._ ·'Lli' ·.:·!t' :• 1.:. .\. ~ t'\ltl'l~_\ !'t't l:h~, dl hliiJtl', ;~J.,. : l:i~~ :n1.~·n ti:~;i·k~.\ p.tl;t·d \>••n.or W•nger Sean Wills , 231 work<:. the boards as S ''\·'K' lord loo~t· puck away frnm (;enPSl'o. as they wen• t>agt>r to ~et out of the thrivmg and exciting greater Buffalo an•a after such displays of stupid!lv with a r·ouplc of ~tronl! wu1s ·nwv did. and are 11n\\ 1111 a fn·t· g<HIH' wmninl! ..;trt•all '-'\t onl~ that. but thl'~· haw thts Wl'dnes( thl'\' <'an haw• no qt \\iitl'hing Dynasty bdorl' Thursd:n·'s Salem State. aiHI \\'mtl'r l'arnival :\1<1 [ll'l'rl'!lnial \VintPI ;trch-rn·al \h•r-rtma I--------- .. ------~~--- 1 TITm® ~~©©JdmWJbB~rB ~ n ~ o ~ u~ ~~J©[tffEBtru@J I February 13, 14 & 15 I 1he need ¥or Yype 0 Blood is greC!ltest bu'i' A :nmd l3 are in shor~ supply +:i!S well r lrG ll'f~ \' [{) \Y.lo U!:Jo t r&:~o nt <c:f;lft?l!H!Jdf/~ \~.~~.§fil1UK'f:U1lt§ 0} cillJITlcdJ ~~C~1t 0CCCq] nncrunmrfi@cd] W\Yllftfhl (~r fJ J'I ~ 0 '\\I;J')CeS.'lH L CC@ Q:_,LfCEdJll.1H11

- (18) so ~ at the ~ ~ a. ... .... 0 u Cll :>. .c .E 0 .r::. Q CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1985 Page 19 SPO s Athlete ·of the Wee·k ScottWykoH .On Sports By PAUL KURKER Sports Staff Congratulations to Jamie Knight of the varsity hockey team and Ken D'Orazio of the varsity basketball team for JamieKnight sharing this week's Athlete of the Week honors. Knight is 'in his second year as co-captain of the Skating Dutch- men and has been on fire as of late. In his last seven games, Jamie has scored goals in four of them including a three goal, two assist .performance in Union's 7-4 drubbing of Mid- dlebury. On the season, Knight has accumulated 18 points with nine goalS and nine assists placing him third on the team. Jamie is currently tied for tenth place with Kevin Kordos in Union's all-time scoring race with 77 points. He needs five mote points to catch Bill Mason average of nine per game. In Union's .92-62 trouncing of Hobart, D'Orazio also hauled down fourteen rebounds. Against Rochester, Ken shined as he grabbed 13, rebounds to complement his 23-point per- for the ninth position. The Skating Dutchmen have won six straight division two games and Jamie Knight has been a major reason why. Jamie hails from ,g Worcester, MA and is the _g president of the Psi Upsilon ~ Fraternity. en In the hoopmen 's recent victories over Hobart and Rochester, senior center and tri-captain Ken D'Orazio found the groove as he hit for 18 and 24 points respectively. Ken is currently second on the team in scoring with a 17.2 average and first in rebounding with an Ken D'Orazio formance. For his outstanding play, Ken was named to the ECAC Weekly \Honor Roll\. The 6'6\ 215-pound D'Orazio is from Mamaroneck, New York and is a brother of the Sigma Chi Fraternity. It has been 10 years since hockey was reinstated as a varsity sport at Union. The first two years were amazing as the youthful program grew behind the likes of Steve Baker and Kip Churchill. Then the roof fell in around the garnet gang and the school looked to start from scratch and work to regain the glory, minus the controversy. One Charlie Morrison, known as a rebuilder of floundering programs, was called upon to work his magic under the dome of Achilles. Last year the Dutchmen ended the many rebuilding years of frustration and Morrison will be the first to tell you, two guys named Egan and Knight have had their say in the Schenectady hockey resurgence. · 1· Women Swimmers Win! ·1 Gill Egan and Jamie Knight came to Union four years ago from opposite ends of the spectrum. Gill hailed from the ranks of the Ontario junior hockey system while Jamie grew up in New England finishing his high school career as a Prep school standout. Forget the miles that separate their respective hometowns. These two shared a common desire to win. Under their year and a half tenure as Morrison's co-captains, the Dutchmen have won more games than in the two previous years combined. Individually their numbers speak for themselves while together they have earned the respect of each and every Skating Dutchman. Last week Egan became the most prolific goal scorer in Union Hockey history as he tallied his 65th and BySPORTSSTAFF The women's swim team won! ! On Thursday, the team outswam Hartwick 44 to 42. Everyone had a good day, with many fast times. Tricia Bowering, who already qualified for the State meet in the 50 free, helped with second place finishes in the 50 and 100 free. Lynn Hano added to the point total with thirds in those events. More depth was added with. strong swims by Karen Stash, and Georgia Sullivan, as well as Karen Califano's strong seconds in the breaststroke. Betsy Bout- well, who had a fantastic meet last week, winning the 500 free on the last lap, again came through for the Dutchwomen. Betsy took second in the 200 free, and 100 butterfly. Finally, Lisa Freed added on points with victories in the backstroke events, as well as the IM. With the meet coming down to the final relay event, a technical call, and an amazing relay of Bowering, Boutwell, Califano and Freed just out-touched the Hartwick team for the meet victory. On Saturday, a few team members traveled to Norwich, where times i.inproved again. Men~s Swim Team 1-3 By JOHN WHALEN Sports Staff The men's Varsity swimming season is now well underway and the Dutchmen currently hold a record of one win against three losses. The men's and women's teams are separate for the second year, each following their own schedules. Swimmers on the men's team include: butterfly-Mike Fox, Mike Millet and Jeff Nolan, breast stroke_. Andy Crossley and Larry Schater, and freestyle-Tom Christopher, Chris Swchuck, and John Whalen. ; .... .... ClJ ~ .... RJ a.. >. ..0 ~ 0 .c:: c. The Dutchmen won their last home meet by drowning Hart- wick 57-38. Andy Crossley and Jeff Nolan both had two first place finishes and one second place finish. Both of Union's relay teams finished first. The swim team is anxiously looking forward to the state meet on February 21-23. Their next meet is on the road Saturday at Plattsburgh, and then the Dutchmen host rival R.P.I. on Wednesday, the sixth, at 4 p.m. So, come to the pool · and support the Union swim- mers .. Recent swimming action at Foote Pool as the Dutchmen defeated Hartwick. Boutwell was the team's all- around swimmer, performing every stroke except one in the meet. In addition to taking many seconds, Betsy's time in the 50 free was a personal best. Donna Gardiner placed first in the diving event, then quickly switched over to capture points for Union in the butterfly. In the meantime, Diane Gallece placed second in the diving, and also swam in the victorious 200 free relay. Finally, Freed took seconds in the backstroke, also qualifying for States in the 100 back event. Although they lost, the meet was a cool treat for all there, with the icing on the cake being low personal best times. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS ::: ·;: .... ClJ ~ .... ftl a. >. ..0 0 .... 0 .r::. a. ·.' - ... ~~~~~i~~ac The Women's Varsity swim team captured their first victory of the season against Hartwick. _AHention Spring Athletes · Physicals will be gi:ven on Sun., Feb. 1Oth in the training room of Achilles Rink. The times are as follows: Women's Lacrosse 7:00 Softball 7: 15 Track 7:30 Tennis 7:45 · Men's lacrosse 8:00 Baseball 8: 15 Pre-physicals will be given in th• training room of the week of February 4th to 8th from 9 to 11:30 a.m. and 1·2 p.m. 66th career goals at the hands of Mid'dlebury . \I feel very .good for Gill,\ comments Morrison. \That record could have been broken a long time ago if Gillhad not been so unselfish and played so much defense for us.'' Egan spent a good number of contests in h.is first two Dut- chman campaigns switching off betweeH the forward line and defense. Last year's NCAA finalistcampaign ''as Gill's first full campaign as &trictly a forward and he made the best of it tallying for a team leading 28 goals and 21 assists. Egan has been red hot as late having scored 8 goals and 5 assists in the Dutctunen's last five straight wins. Gill was named ECAC Forward of the Week for his efforts that have helped move his squad into fourth place of the Western Region. Morrison claims there is a tell-tail sign when number 11 is hot. \You know when Gill's going well because he starts to chirp,\ said Morrison, \you can hear him in the lockerroom and out on the ice.\ As his associate, Mr. Egan, Jamie Knight moves up the Dutchman All- Time scoring list each time he has a hand in lighting the lamp. Jamie has been one of Morrison's most consistent and hard working players over the past four years. Knight is enjoying his most satisfying year as a. Dutchman this year as in 15 games he has clicked for 9 goals and 9 assists, including a team- leading four shorthanded goals. Jamie can best be described as your classic team player. \It's all very team oriented with Jamie,\ Morrison points out. \He's the type of guy with whom it's always we, we, we.'' Morrison cannot say enough about l\!is two co-captains. \Gill and Jamie have done a tremendous job for us as leaders,\ said Morrison. They have turned this program around.'' Dedication and discipline had been missing for years at Achilles and Egan and Knight instilled those two ingredients that a winner needs. \They came in with a positive attitude that revolved around hard work and sacrifice and it has rubbed off on the other guys,\ claims Morrison. The two captains' per- sonalities are about as different as their respective hair cuts . \We're kind of like Mutt and Jeff,\ admits Egan. \I'm definitely Jamie's opposite, he's the disciplined one while I'm a bit more on the radical side.\ The soft spoken Knight agrees with his flamboyant partner in crime and adds, \We offer the team not different choices but different characteristics and that's good for the team because a lot more guys can relate to us.\ The Egan and Knight-led Skating Dutchmen have been red hot as of late having won five in a row while holding four of those victims below the 25- shot plateau. Gill and Jamie are pleased with the Dutchmen;s fortunes so far this year but know that every game is a big one with teams breathing down their necks. Tonight the Dut- chmen look to continue on with their wiming ways as they travel east to the Bay State to meet a highly regarded Salem State squad.

---·----- ------- rk ~ the boards as Scott C yr ( 18' thts Wednesdav off. so <'an han' no quairns about Dvnastv this week Thursd;JV\ L;am<' at Stat\'. artd bdort' thl' ('ami val \1at('h against \VintPr <'arni\'al rch-nral \h•rrirnack. 0 ~ 3, 14 & 15 0 Sloocl A ~rid [3 are trls well I' l,i' l 4 I I fh PAt:L Kl'RKER · Spoi-ts Staff <'l•!l~ratuJ:,tt,tns to .J;nnie Krnght of the v;1rsity hoc·key it'<llll and Kt•n (ror-azto 11f thl' \·:1r~it\ baskt>t ball !Pam for I __ ..,,..,. .... ,(. K r\lt(ltlt :.::·in.: ! 1;::- \\(Tk·-. \thll't•· .,f : L· \\'n·k liii!}IJ!'~ r;,Jit;Jl! i~ 111 l11s ~~·~· .. nd Y•':tl' :ts ····apt<llrlllt tlw Skalt!11: llutdJ- r:.~':: :tnr) !l:t--= bPPn on f!r•~ ~·~~ 11f \';t,. Jr~ J1i-.; \:!'1 :-.l'\\1'11 l~i!IIH'S. # 't• }'!!# t ... -~== Athlete o~ .lamiP has scored goals 111 ft~ur of thl'm mdudmg a three g\)al. two assist performance Ill l 1 nion 's i' -4 drubbin~ of \1id- d!Pbury ( )n the st•asmJ. Krugh! ha..; :IC'!'Illllll!atPd Jfl j/!IITlb With nuw l!<~als and nnw ass1.-;t~ pi:Wifll' hllli !IJtrd fill ltlt' lt'dllJ .J:tn::l' !'- r·ur~'tlnt~y f :··=·~ •· r !••nth pl:w•· wltf: K••\111 l\ .. r··!.- 1lll.nl,i!l·:--: :dl-t:rn•· :--corir1~ ;';Jr t '.\!It~ 7~ pnllll'-' He· :l<'t'd' ~':-., !ll\r•· pomt- to ··:1!<'11 ll!l! \h-;,r; f,r 1h·· nmth P\'-lll<>r. 'lh· Sk:ilim: I >utduw·n h:1n· '·\•>ll ~~x ~tr:1a;ht dtnsi'm 11\•·l'anw- :n:r! .l;~mif' Krw;ht li<l~ !wen <I rr::•J\r ~·e;l'--f)JI \vh· .. Ja~ntt· ~::11l·~ fr~ITL \\ .. r:·e.;fn \1\ ;,:;•\ t!.c· fll'!\'ldl'fll ,.f !tw 1'..:: \'p:-.il\r: Fr:ttt·rnl! \ lr; :1w hi\'Jli!H':~· rh ''ll' ., il't .r·;t•....; ~~\·t~r lJ~,bar, ;~:~·i f{,,, flti-..ti)l'. ~t'Cltlf' ,.,·ntt ~- .1!11! ? r:-• :1ptain K<'n 1>'1 lr;~n,, .- .. ,;:, l • t,,. ;T'\'\T ;,:-.lw t11t f··r 1 H :.:,d :'1 p, . 1 r il ' n • 'fH • r · t ; \l' I ~ K 1 · n ; , !'IIITI'!ill~ St'l 11[](! <~II ttW !t'<J!II I;. ,n,rin~: \\'lth :t l7 ~ d\·vrd;t· ~tH'! !': r-;t ::: rdJ11Undm <' \\ 1! !o :1n irhe Week ._ .t\ •·ra~t· 11f ntm· per ~arne In l'rllun·o; !J:!-Ii2 trouncing of !l,lJart. ll'Orazto also hauled •l·•\1 !l f.,Ur!t'l'[] rt'lJIIUild:-; \,•;ttn-.t H\dws\Pr. Kt>n shtnPd <I' !lt' l~!';lhtJPd n t'f'!Joll!ld~ (I• • \llipl~\rnt·nt his 2:1-potnt per- 1< ; • •' ~) ( ) r l _ 7 •' ) ~.~r~: :tr·:, ,. I··,-~- L:--- ~q:_...:: l!l·il;1~: pl;l~. f-.:,·n \\.~;1\ :;;H1Jt'd r11 tht· !·t· \1 · \\',·\kh \ll•r~>.r· f\ .. 1!\ Tht· ,;·,;\. :'1=1-p .. :tnd r )'( )!'dZlll I' 'r·•:1. \l:n:;;l!·~,;;••t'k '\t·\1 \'.,rk .1~u! 1.· ~~ t~rjJt1itT .. ~· ~!H· Si~:.IJ!d 1 'lu Fr:1t • nut~ 1! ~~a~ Lw.'t'Fl ~11 ~· t'~1f' '-'lfl• t• f!,wkt·\ 11 as r•·1r !Stat t•d a-. \;tr:->111 'f~111 ;;t l'nt\ii. Tlw fll~l 'Ill, !l'a_r' \\t·'f'•' dl!idllll~.a~ tlJ>: .'>ll~HhftL pr·j~:r;trL .J\•'\\ :Jt·!:i;1 ~ ·~!t' itkt·•'-. •If ~:,_~\.·,, l~.~Kt·!- :t:Jf! K:f· t 'h:.n·· L1l; T~;t·f. ·~;· > ... ~ :-+ :~ .: ;ir•~:l:t·: tl.' ~.-:·:-~.··· .. :.t~ ... ,:,! ·:.• . . ••• , 1 .\ • ! : 1 i!: ·.t> ' :, , , . r·, ~ 1·· , ', · 1 ·: • ~· ! trt~.· '·L.tr~1~· \1,·IT!:--.,,r. K;l\··'-': ;1' .~ r•·lHid:h·r <~f ~~!~,,Htl!tTl:~~·­ pr~ .• ·r~tr:l'- ·,,;t--- · ~~::,·.! ~lll-4'L · -.~ .• rk ~:1' :;.;1...:P .r-P!,lr ~!:,· -i•·!Ct c \1-il.::, ..... 1.;1--..~ :~~·lt~ t:.t• iJukhlllCII ··:J·i•·d '!it li .. ::.:. r,·h~!:l·.hr. .. _ ~···;n- /. ::·t.,!.rd':. :1:1 l \1 .r:·~ ... ·~<. ·-.\- ·· :11 t}_,. f:r..:: · ' [' \ '. '. . , ,. • . . ; I .. (.' ;.' ·.'.l i, , ,\, I' ;.,d,' ', ,j{t .. J;.~'I;. , ··~~~:·. ,~;~·1 r\.:::~!1: :-.d._~· ~ . .t·l ';i .. ;r '\'.!. , . • : ~. t ,'-). ! '· · ~ • : t ! ~· r>.·:. ;···:-.ur:..:t·:;; ·t· < ;di Egan dnd .f;Hlllt· Kru,..:llt ;tJIP t·' ~ ;;:,,!·. · ,.,~- _! t·;tr'\ 1~~~ ...... ,~! s 0 w··- 0 G \w~ omerr11 Wimmer§ \ ': TIIOll fr1.:L ~·pp!l:--l:l· t·::d:--- •. : :t.r· spo.'df'll!J; (;j;; hatit•,j :j'{J[!J lilt' Llrik... t ~:· qp · ( }~ltdl\[· · J lEll· •I' ~:~~t·kt\. ~\'Stf'!!: \'.!!:h· ,I;H!~~~· .:r,.,, lll' 111 '\t•\\ I:IJL!LI!:'I ~·!lll'L:n}: L1\ ~~;;.:~. --.1 !·11~ .. i . ~t~·,.,.r ~a·· d l)n·p ,i-h•~p: .... t~tnd·,d!. F .. r;..;•·~ tlw Ill!lt·' •r . .~: ,~·;>.ir:lil' t h • 'I r r l' ~ p t' ct 1 \'' · h\ m d\ \\ 11 ~ Tl ll'\'' I 11\ ,!J<trt·• i <t llllllll• •r: h·:-.•n· t>• \\IIJ l'nd•·:· tlw1r ~··:11· g, SPOHTS ST\ FF :·;!'. \l>~llll'll·.., 'i\lj[!l lt'<IIII r In Thitr~d;i\. tiw tearli • '·\'!'' Ibr!\lid.; !4 !o t~ · t\ .::•·lt.·d :, .~ .. :~·l·i:l!. \\ilL ::. ,·,:- f.1~' !il!H'' Tri,·~:t !· .. \ •: ::it.. \\1111 .l;IT<td~ 'i ,dJ::t ·! f.,! !lit' St<t!t' l!lt't'l Ill -,~, : r•·t·. ltt'l!ll'd 1\ tlh \ ·>1.-: p;.11' fi;nslw~ 111 tlw :JO .~:•·1 il11l 'r,.,. I.:n:1 IL111\ addt·d 'L· i\'i:1l '••t:~: ''itll tl.tnl-. ir: ;,. ,, ,.·. t'IIl' \J.>f·,. •1.-pt!, \\it-. ;;,Jdt••l \\ :th ..;t f'lllH! -.\\'illl:-- IJ: K.tn·n St:t~ll. ;md (;,_.urgta :;,t~li \:111. :1' \1l'!l a' Kart>n '·. d: t ~i:l~ ·..., 't r1 I !it~ '-t'l ·und:--. 1 n tlw l•r•·<t-.t...,tr .. kt·. Bt>b~ Bt~ut- R~ .JOH~ WH:\I .E-..; Spnrts Staff Tilt· illl'!l\ \';l!<.;tl~ ...,Willlllllll~ ~~ a'-'\11 I.'- !lll\1 \I·PIJ underw;n :.::d '!It' I li:l d11tll'fl i lllTl'llll~ !: .. !.! ;1 n·•·nrd (If \lH' wm again~! rhn•t· h•:-;sc~. ·nw rlll'n·s and ''\llll'll·~ tl';uns :Irt' st'parak f,,r t!w ,,, .. ,.,,n![ \l':tr. ,•;wh fo!lul\ mg '''•·tr 111rt ~r·hl'dll]Po; Swinmwr:-; 1·:•. tlw llll'!l's 1t·:tm irwludt' !·uit•Tf!\ \l1k•· F 1\. \1tkt· \li!lt'l :if: l ,J,.ff \',.j;;n, hr1·a..;t ~trokt>­ \·~·!.\ j 'rl;'-:~1·\~ :tnd r .arr_\ > :::1•t-r. ~1:1d ~rt~t .... t~ le-·ronl ( lri;;t,plwr. ( 'kt,.: Swdnwk_ .1:.•! .J,,tm Wh:tll'n I1J a_ ., .0 2 0 .<:: Q_ \\ ,·]l. \\ hu had <1 fant,;st il Illt'l'( L1'! \H·,·k. 1\illltl!Jg tlw :;on fnT ·•I! tlw last lap. agatn ··alii\' tltr\ugh f\r t lw Dutd1 11 omt'Jl Hd ~ \ t I\ 'k \l'l 'I >II d lll t hl' :200 fn·~·.' <md lflfl buttt·rfl~ F111all~. l.:-.a Fil'l'd ;,ddt·d \II r~•llllS \\Jth \'JI'l.,rlt\-. 111 tlw IJ:H·kstrokt· I\ i'llh. ;;~. 1\t•ll d:-. till' f\1 With tlit' uwd ,·,nun:.: d<•~~'ll !1• tht· !-ttJ<d rda~ l'\'<•nt. :1 !l-dmkal <'dii. ~tnd dfl dill<tt.in;..:. r('1~1\ 11f H11\\, ~-,ng. ~~~,llt\\t•11. ('dliftut1l .t;,.J }'!•'' d jil:-.t 11llt-t.1Udlnl tht· iLH-t\.\i!> 't·dttl f\r :ht· lltt:•.\t ·: ll'! 11[\\ 1 ln .-.;:.1 urda~. ;, ft•l\ :\'<Ill> llll'llliJI'r ~ tr;tvl'kd lt• -..;,,n, id:. 11 !:t·rt· tin~t·:-. llltpron·d ag;un Tlw llitldmtl'll wnn their last h••m•· !llt'l't b~ drownmg ll:tri· \\ !t'k ;J~ -:lH And\ Crossin and .ldf :'\ulan hotli had I\~,; fir~t pl:ln· fmisht>s and ••nt· ~t·c·tmd plat·•• fmtsh Both uf l'rllliTI·.., rt'l:t! lt•arn' llflt\lwd ftrst. Tlw 'wim lt•am ts anxwuslv I1Jilklrll' forward I•• th•' ~tat~· nwP! 1111 Fdw!lary :21-~:l Tlwir rwxt llll't'l 1s on tht· road S:tttlrday at Plattsburgh. :mel th•'tl tllt' I Jutdl!JH'Il host rival H.!'. I. \n Wr•drw;;day. tht• ~1xth. :11 I ll ftl S,. l'lll!lt' (, til•' pt~ol and ·..,uppurt tlw l'nion ;;wim- nwr~. Rt'cent sw1mminq act1on at Foote Pool as ttle Dutchmen defeated Hartwick l),,!JI\Idl ·,,;;, !•,,· :1·an. > all· <~l'••lllld -..\\Illlrtl\r. ptTf.,nrllll•. ,.\·,·r~ -;tn•kv •·x('t·pt ·•n•· in th·· r1wd In ddrliti<•r! t\ t:tkill:' lltiHI\ 't'('uflds gpt..,\ ·.., li!llt' Ill tlw ;;n frl'e w:t:- .1 pt·t:o;,lllal lw-;t I)~,nn~' f ;(~l·~un~·: pL~~·t·d fir<t i:. tlw dirin.L! t'\ t>nl _ t!ll'rt qui,·kl: ·',,II ( ·Ji,·· I 11\'\'l' t .• ('<JPI llrt P• •lilt' f\r l·rll,nmtlw !Jl!t!•·rn\ In th·· !Ilt'dll!llllt'. lli :til'' (;;l!lt·ct· i'l<t>•·d >l't·\nd :r. tlw II\IIl.L:. ;,nd ;d:-.•· ~\\:Jfltlllth· \l>'l·•rl•IIL, :'no frt'l' rt•Li\ Fin.tli\. Frt·•·d '\\k '\\t''·\nd-.. u~ :lu :~;,;·k·\'t r (lkt·. dl.~, q<~:1l!f~ tnc: r,r St:1t•·:-> 111 thl' :nn !;;,, k ,.\·,·nt. .\lllwuc;h t h1'! 111:-.t. t!w nn'l'l \ld:-> a I'U(Iltn•at f\r :til ::.,·r·· .• \JtL tlw winl! 1111 tlw ,·;Jkt· lwin;..: ill\\ per-.11nal lx•:-;t I inw:-. ' L 0. . <·•·. -trt>l ;~ l;;df [l'fltll··· \' \l·l!Ti~.•r:'-.. ,. · ~-•·dptctul:--.. ~~;t·l hn,·lu:tt)!l ha'-··· .\IJ~l !U~:!\+.' ~a!:it•-.. ~h~t!\: 1!: tht· !\1.,; pn·\ l<•ll~ 1 •·:n, ,·,:rt btm··i. !;Jdi\ lti~t.~:::, !!! 1 :::Ul1:!t :· 'fW<tK f,,[ \l!t'!;l:-.P]'.t'' i1!11J.. l•JL!t'lllt': :!:t·~ :1~1\ ~· t.';n·~:t·J ~he n·~JH:,·~ .,; ,.,u :·. dn•i t.'\·t·r~ ~k<ttJ:l~~ lJ:t!~.·lHn<~;. i.d . ...:.~ \\t't-'k LL . .-IL ~)t.'l_,l:!!(' ~:.' !!II•>! rn·\:tf:\ ~:~'~<~t '{··.·!·,.~- .•. 1~:J. \~; ilp4·Kt•y :; 1 >!I i !' ~ d-.. h t. ~:I:~: t '•:: ~ l j > 1 ; :,q: ;I! i · : ~tUJfPlfrJ@~u WJ~~(Q)~ ~L0CQHR<u~ ·.·'·· ..... ~ ::., .· , -. t l\ ,~ ~ ) 0 \ ! r , , l ; • t • , ,. I ~ t ' £ ~'if®tro~o©U'iJ ~ftltre!fil!BJ &\~~a®~®~ Physiccls will be giveri o•~ Sura., feb. HHh in the ir@ining room o* Achilles tlhi~I ~ Yhe ~imes ~we ~~ ~0110\\JS: Women's Lacrosse Softball Tennis Men's Lacrosse 1:00 1:15 1:30 7:45 8:00 Baseb«JII B: 15 fire-physicals will be given 11'1 the trQ!inong room of ~he week of february 4i'h to 8th from 9 to 11:30 G.m. I and 1-2 p.m. .,, ~ ....... --- ___ ., ...._..----·----~\' < ~ • • ... ~~tltL, dr~·tT \1;' i· l; t• ~.li + !\ .. ~ •· .• h , ; ! t 'f' ~ \ I ': ·~ ·I ; I j .. ' , . , ' ' ~- ' • ., I I t ', ~ . .,. . •' ;. ' :.:;, tl j 1\ I; ': ,i;: ',, ~ .·.~·t·:. ~-~-' : ,.- ... , ~:··i > ·: · ·:: -• 1 r :. ' : l:' ---1 l' .. } ), ! ' ! ' '-, t .... ~ ... : .. ~ • . : ~ ; i . : t ~ : ' 14 ' , t • ! , -., ~ • · l ' I 'r < ... __ ,,: •.••• I' :;Jt '! ., ' .• ; : ) ~ ; i '- . ' . < ·, : • < 1 ' \\ t • •. - ' . ., ; .:·~1 \'·'· .• •\!,, ,~t >· t;,.•_ Yuu Kilt!\~ wlwr1 til · .... i<: \H,, :n • ...:t· ~ .•· ...... : :·1!·r ~ ~-d~: \1 ·:··:·;-...{i:,. ~···iJ ~·;~~- :I; ·~l~' :-'· t\t'IT t-t·rr; drl tlw ''\' .. \~ ~1> ,i_ ... ~l! ;;1~·· \ i )·:.• !~:Ldt: \::-·r~r:!·· ;-,t t';l' l t.i:'p' ~;~- !..1'- ;; :H!~·· :!·:. ~ ~:t· ~;n!.~r~ \ 7J+·,_··. ,_·:.~· .. ,.- \1.~r·:·:s~. <:. :--t~··;)! :1 .. ·! ~ ... ;·d pi;i_'-t'!', (\•\~'[' !ht ~,t·~t:·: hLi~:L~ ~-\ ··nj Ei;·t:--'. \·(~ll\!! ;;l,· ~ t~ ! _~,_l! hr ;J.~t· · :.!-.: :~ •.-.tr 1::.• . .' '.•' • ;1·, <11_ ~.-,~ t , 1! ·: · i · · : ! ....... l, ~ ·· . ~ r ~ { ·l! jf l! r 1 , I ti:,; t' ' , il! :j! ...... \ :)t. it•:- \ i'l:· :-;,!S>;· ~~~ar!~ plc. [~ ' . .,.; ·~t~ \\\·:·~ h' . .tiT\: ·.~ 1\ .l.1•nw. \1\r•·ts .~tr ·}t,: ... ;~.~·:~p!·.)f \\!1uJ!i at·> ,t~\\-,iY> ,'-.t·. \lt>!T!SIIIl <<lllll\11 ,;;, ;_d~,tit hi:-- tv .. .-tl ,-~,...~\pt. :ilhi .lanllt' h~t'.'t• 'n'tlll'rl'i'''l\ .i\t' r .. kiidt·r~ ... ,;11d \1 .. rn: h:t\'t' t urrlt'd t hi' ;;r,ii!Jd'' llt-dit'at· dt.-.ctpll:l•' !lad :,,.,.r: n \ t•ar-. ;,t .\• ·htlk·~ .J!\.l Kn1>-:ht il'~t:ilt·•! : t lll!;rt•dJt'Ill' !)·;:It;, ;\;[II Tht'\ ,·ar:w lr. ~~,·~, .tl:rttldt· th;t' ('\'\· .• :\·\ \:;u·~~ \\llrk :t;·-i ..... ~1··~·1f \'' 1 tldill !t.'~ d:·~ :Jh .. ,:: .-l,> .t:--. lhl·:r :···~pt'('!:\·_ ·\\ ,,·n· kin·: ,: :;r:•· I i;; •: I . !t•! ;;d! t ::·· .! :!; ',,1' ~ ;;p Ji! ·il;--, :p,!!;! ; :,~._. \\ h: l ! l l (! ~-,' ( ~:' • 11 t' !\<I' 11 ·p~t· 'i'~-: \P~j~· .• ,··:l h:nt_ \til~. h;·- :·~.n:.~·,ly;l;·:t , :·p·,· .,:\i ., .. J.t,. ·w, ) l : ~ .. . ! ' i .: ( • t ' i ~-:\•· ::·J ,\! !\\ ,\ hl>! ~lt> ••t thP~I \ ~t·t:~[ll:--; !)t•\. :-.1111: pLt!t·dii. ( ;m a:d pkased w1th Uw I)\ i,;rtarw:- S(l far ttlt,; hrww t !tat •·n•ry ,;,ut. •'fi\' \\ ll!J lt'<IUJS \ln•:Jt t ll•·u· m•ck~ 'L lflh.!ht dHnt•n lt~\h t.· ,·,ntltl: Uwtr Wl!llll!H.! way~ t ran•l t'ast tP t ht• Ha nwt't ;1 highly rPgar< Statt' ~quad

Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, January 31, 1985 .... Five Game Winning Streak Hoop Run Record to 9-6 ways over burying Friday, defeating ... ..,;Jnr:ud~d eir as ints , and settled for a e advantage. Union ing the points in the not by running their us ~e -up offense, but rather throu ~ numerous fast break lay-ups. These opportunities were due mainly to the inside rebounding of Ken D'Orazio, Kevin Bartlett, and Mike Miller and the inability of the Hobart C! ... Q) .c c \' a team to get back on defense. E Union came out after halftime ~ with an 11·2 run that opened up 2 a 52·31 advantage just 4:30 into a. the new period. From this point, they coasted the rest of the way, hiking their lead up to as much as 35 points, by relying mainly on lay-ups and short-range jumpshots. Center Ken D'Orazio led the. attack, which saw four players score in double figures, with 18 points. pts. over the weekend, D'Orazio racked up 27 rebounds . . . Friday night's victory marked the first time this season that everyone on the team scored in the same game. Not only did everyone score, but all of the players had at least 4 pts ... Rob Parento, playing for injured guard Tom Beck, did an ad- mirable job by collecting 12 pts. in each of the two contests . . . The Union defense again played superbly in limiting Hobart to 40 percent shooting and Rochester Rob Parento (15) lets go of a jumper as Mike Miller looks for a potentia I rebound in Union's 69-56 win over Rochester. to a 39 percent mark. They also outrebounded their two op- ponents by a margin of 10 in both games . . . Currently, Union is enjoying a 5-game winning streak, its longest in two years. Union 7 Union? Union 7 ·oyster Bay B Union 92 Union 69 Williams 59 Binghamton 62 St. Rose 65 Union 57 Norwich 76 Norwich 61 • Garne'l: Scoreboard January 21-28 HOCKEY(9·6) J.V. HOCKEY {2-6) MEN'S BASKETBALL {9-6) WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (1-9) WOMEN'S SWIMMING (1·4) WOMEN'S TRACK (4-1) lst place .. Plattsburgh lnvitationa·l MEN'S SWIMMING (1-4) DUTCHMEN SPORTSWEEK January 31-.February 7 Thursday 1/31 Men's Basketball at Williams Men's Hockey at Salem J.V. Basketball at Williams Sa.turday 2/2 Men's Basketball at Kings Point Men's Hockey v. Merrimack Women's Basketball at RP I Women's Swimming at Plattsburgh Men's Swimming at Plattsburgh Tuesday 2/5 Men'sHockeyv. Williams J.V. Hockeyv. Berkshire Women's Basketball at New Paltz Wednesday 2/6 Men's Basketball v. Albarw St, J.V. Hockeyv. Kent Women's Swimming v. RPI Men's Swimming v. R PI Thursday 2/7 Women's Basketball v .-North Adams Middlebury 4 U. Buffalo 1 Geneseo4 Union 2 • Hobart62 Rochester 56 . Union 49 Union 60 Union 62 Hartwick 48 Union 39 Union 44 8:00p.m. · 7:30p.m. 6:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 4:00p.m. 1 :OOp.m. 1 :00 p.m. 7:30p.m. 3:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 3:00p.m. 4:00p.m. 4:00p.m. 7:00p.m. Forwards Kevin Bartlett and Mike Miller recorded 14 and 10 points respectively, while guard Rob Parento added 12. One of the more positive notes of the game was the fact that Union mentor Bill Scanlon was able to t<:\ke his starters out of the game early, especially the front-court players, giving them what he termed as, '' . . . some much needed rest for the Rochester game.\ shake free from this pesky Yellowjacket that remained always only three or four baskets behind. That is, until Union ran off a 6-0 advantage that stretched a seven-point lead to 13. This spurt was culminated as Ken Levine netted two free throws to give Union a 59-46 lead with 4:29 remaining, seemingly putting the final nail into the Rochester coffin. Morris Bolsters Uniori HOckey Saturday, although the Dutchmen again won by a considerable margin, the victory was not as easy to come by as had been the case the previous night. Union entered the game being wary of Rochester, who, on the night that Union bombed Hobart, After the victory, Coach Scanlon conceeded, \ . . . the team is playing harder, but there's still room for im- provement, especially on the offensive end of the court.\ D'Orazio finished with a game- high 23 points, followed by classmate Kevin Bartlett who added 14. Dutchmen Notes . . . Ken D'Orazio closed to within 44 pts. -of 5th place on the all-time scoring list. Together with his 41 Tracksters Triu~nph- By ANDYHODGKIN Sports Staff Thanks to a strong team performance, the women's track team ·came home from the Plattsburg Invitational at SUNY Plattsburg last Saturday with the team title and three first place finishes. The women tracksters, coached by Russ Ebbets, placed first out of six teams by edging out the host Plattsburg team. The score was 85 points to 78 for the Cardinals. The previous week the Dutclunen had edged out Plattsburg by two points. Individual first place honors were gained by sophomore Amy Walsh in the 1500 ·meter race and Jenny Lee at 800 meters. A second place in the high jump was copped by Stephanie Hirniak, and two thirds were salvag-ed in the 1000 meter race and at 300 meters .by Cindy Curtis and Julie Halpern respectively. The garnet and white rounded out the scoring with a first in the 1600 meter relay with a time of 4:52. Running .legs for the· Dutchmen in this race were Halpern, Lee, Barb Etzel, and Curtis. At the same meet, the men placed 5th out of 11 teams. Coach Ebbets commented that he used people in different events experimentally so the Dutchmen could have done better than the score suggests. Outstanding performers in the meet were Wayne Lacy who jumped a meet record in the pole vault with a jump of 13'6\ while taking the event; Todd Allen won at 50 meters with a time of 5.9, and Rob Mohlar was second in the 1500 meter run with a time of 4:11.5. While most of the track team was at Plattsburg, junior Scott Remillard and senior Winston Britton competed in a Greater Boston Track Club meet at Harvard. Remmilard took 4th in the 351 lb. weight with a throw of 51 '2\ while Britton placed 8th in the 400 meter race with a time of 50.5 seconds. Union race walker Jim Mann competed at the Millrose Games in Madison Square Garden on Friday. Mann placed 6th in the 3000 meter walk which was the TAC National Cham- pionships. He finished with a time of 12: 12.2. By JAY GROSSMAN Sports Staff The new assistant hockey coach is Mark Morris. He comes to Union with excellent hockey credentials and has contributed a lot to Union's success this year. A graduate of Colgate University, Morris won the Coaches' award twice- . which recognizes per- serverance and determination. Morris graduated with a degree in sociology and anthropology and was awarded the Delta Kappa Epsilon Scholarship for academic and athletic ex- cellence. After graduating from Colgate, Morris played for the New Haven Nighthawks, the Los Angeles Kings' farm team in the American Hockey League, for two seasons. At New Haven his strong two-way play earned him the team's lead in plus-minus statistics. Morris decided to pursue a college coaching career because he said that he would like to return some of the things he learned while playing the game of hockey. He feels that he is not far removed from the position his players are in and be knows what they are going through. His outstanding background gives him a good knowledge of the game. Working under head coach Charlie Morrison, Morris feels he is given a lot of responsibility and sees that the program is going in the right direction. He said, \When we (Colgate) used to play Union, we used to smoke 'em.\ Beating Colgate twice this season, has proved that Union hockey has come a long way, and Morris said that these two games, along with holding RPI to one goal, were the high points of his season. If they play eonsis.tently and maintain their present level of intensity, Morris feels Union can go all the way and win the Division III NCAA Cham· pionships. Morris also coaches the junior varsity team and although their record has been a disap- pointment, the program serves as a feeder for the varsity team and a chance for players to have fun. Morris and his wife, Cecily, who is pursuing a law career, along with their newborn son, Michael, reside in Schenectady. Good luck to Union hockey's new assistant coach, Mark Morris. Remaining J. V. SchedUle (all games at home). Feb. 5 vs. Berkshire; Feb. 6 vs. Kent; Feb. 12 vs; New Paltz; and Feb. 16 vs. Vermont Academy . Mark Morris, Union's first year assistant hoc:;key coach has been instrumenta.l in Union's success. Attention Ruggers Spring Season is o-:wly 5 weeks away. Announcing Mid-Winter Rugby Camp at the Fieldhouse Days: M, W, FTime: 1:00 p.m. Dates: Jan. 31 • Feb. 15 Veterans expected, Newcomers welcomed e 0 .c 0. 0 c/) \' c :0 .Q 0 ~ g; .!E c/) >- .c 0 .... 0 .c 0. I ( ( j r ~ l I

