game Eg~n, With power left in the John Steve the on, as the have as place the for don't Di-v. eseo, who, on. on to to by per- nion. with s., as onna hope The and the thin to let and ~hey will like gelS .fl) fJ) (1) .... 0;. ~ u (/) >- .0 0 .... 0 .t::. Q. -J Lf .>0( ,,:..\!_ r:: tO E ;: 0 a:l Cl> :l1f. ~ >- .0 0 +- 0 ..r:: Q. CXIV, No. 16 1 President of UCRA, John Ciovacco, discusses the proposal to .transfer the club's financial responsibilities to the College ad- ministration. 1877 Club Finances- Bulk Rate U.S. Postage :faid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12508 March 7, 1985 Budgets to Transfer By SARAH CALDERINI News Editor Three separate resolutions have recently have been drawn up by the Student Forum to propose that the financial responsibilities of the Union College Rowing Association (UCRA), the Union College Choir, and the Union College Cheerleaders be transferred to the administration. The development of these resolutions began at the January 1985 meeting of the Board of Trustees where student trustees Shari Midoneck and Andrew George Union's history beau.se this requested an increase in the team was respon$ible for our Student Activities Fee. school colors. Reasons for the increase were The Forum's main concern, needed to support the request. however, is for the future of After explaining that present UCRA. Presently, sophomore student activities fees would not John Ciovacco is coach of the provide adequate funding for Crew Club and the Forum the support of student activities believes it is necesary to have a next year, the student trustees professional coach to insure were advised to look into the UCRA's survival. possibility of transferring the The resolution states that financial responsibility of \The Student Forum's limited certain clubs to the college funds hinders the growth and administration. development of the club and The results of a study of all insures a great financial burden student activities suggested on individual members.\ that all three clubs (Crew, Because of this, Laux says, Choir, and Cheerleading) \We think in all three cases should possibly be funded by the we're also hindering their College itself and not the ability to represent Union.\ Student Forum. If the proposal is passed in the According to Urian Laux, administration, as it was at last . IEF Enriches Programs By DAVID. GULL~~ , Staff Through independent study; research projects, and senior theses, Union promotes challenging and innovative educational opportunities. These projects stimulate curiosity and provide realistic situations to utilize individual abilities. The Internal Education Fund (IEF) was created to provide the resources for such ideas and thereby enrich the College's programs. Funds are distributed among three main categories. The first concerns any major curricula proposal not initially within the College budget. In the past, this has included Freshman Preceptorial, the writing workshop, and the Steinmetz Honors Program. The other two areas involve student and faculty proposals. There have been forty-one. approved proposals so far in the 1984-85 school year, varying in expense from $40 to $900. Associate Dean of Faculty and administrator of IEF Ilene Kaplan adds, ''There i~ no upper limit on funding if we consider a project worthwhile.\ Since four different branches of study are involved, students' concepts cover a wide spec- trum. A few years ago, a student received a grant to examine the origins of third world music. This year, Lisa Roller is :U analyzing the works of black -g female composers while Carol (5 Joseph is planning a slide show -c on the art of the Holocaust as a > tn document of history. o interviews . or ~~- .J,;el'l.&J:tr~b. .· facilitiel;l, such as the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. In order for interview travel funds to be released, the student must demonstrate that the interview is planned in advance and mutually agreed upon. In other cases, funding is provided for telephone interviews or surveys. Kara Miller received support for expenses to travel to a women's correctional facility for her study on women in prison. Another student, researching tbe health care · system in Cuba, will receive money to travel to interview doctors and health experts in the United States. A senior project will often coincide with a professor's research. Several biology students are currently working with Professor Butterstein on The satellite antenna dish >- .o atop the Science and .... 0 o . . Vice President of Finance: \I Monday's Forum meeting, .tb~, !t.Q.~J7W~J;l.nd. X~P,~Ur,iucttve.. · • f~e):-th'atthese\ctubs are outside Ciovacco beiieves that HCRA systems of rats and. pme voles. ---------· ----. ---------------- :::n~~~with!~~work:::r~~~ \I feel that these clubs are outside the organization of the ~.xperiment. realm of the Student Activities \Important thmgs have happened in small labs. For Budget.\ example, this could affect fertility in farm animals,\ said senior Joel Musicant, one of four students involved in the project. \To the student, however, the importance is the chance to do something original,\ continued Musicant. \In a lab exercise, you don't always learn, you can have wrong answers. In an ex- periment, a wrong answer is still meaningful.\ The IEF is administered by the Research and Grants Subcouncil which consists of four faculty members ap- pointed by the Academic Continued on page 5 the realm of the Student Ac- tivities Budget.\ He continued, remarking that at many other colleges of Union's caliber, \These ac- tivities are funded by the ad- ministration, nof the students.\ Outlined in . the individual resolutions are the reasons that the Forum believes justify financing of the clubs by the College. In the case of the UCRA, the Forum believes tha the club is an ingrained tradition hi -BrianLaux \could lose some flexibility by bringing it into a new system.'' \We're pretty much in- dependent and not used to following guidelines that we have not established ourw selves,\ says Ciovacco. But, he believes that UCRA's security, both economic and future, will be stronger if the financial responsibilities of the Union College Choir was not passed at the last Forum meeting. Choir members were present to request a post- ponement in the Forum's decision, until April 8, 1985. Members of the Choir believe that, if given the time, they will be able to create some original fundraising ideas. The establishment of the Choir is a result of the com- bining of the Men's and Women'sGleeClubs. The Choir, thus, presently expends eight percent of the total Student Activities Budget, an amount the Forum believes they can no longer support. Choir, like Crew, also requires professional leader- ship, the Forum believes. Professor Hugh Alan Wilson of the Arts department is currently serving as advisor to the Choir. However, the Forum reasons that it cannot afford to pay for this advisor. Choir member Eileen Engineering building resulted .c from a proposal py Professor c. Schick of the physics depart- ment. It was constructed well below normal cost as a student- faculty' project and this year Aike bakes in the sun during the recent mid-winter thaw. O'Connell is not completely against having the club funded by the College. Yet, she believes that they have not been given enough time to explore other funding options. During the postponement period, she hopes to develop some sound alter· natives for the funding of the Choir. two students will modify the antenna under another IEF grant. IEF funds often allow students domestic travel to Cabaret Shines *--page thirteen-* Men's Swim Team at States * -page fifteen-* Continued on page 3

Pagel Union's philosophy department welcomes Visiti.ng Assistant Professor KatE) Wininger. Pollster Speaks On Campaigning By JAN BARAN Staff The third speaker under the Chester A. Arthur Centennial Lecture Series on Politics came to Union on Wednesday, February 27. The leading pollster and president of Peter D. Hart Research Associates, Peter Hart, lectured on the dynamics of a campaign, namely the polls, the voters, and public opinion. During the 1984 presidential campaign, Hart was the pollster for Walter Mondale as well as for numerous gubernatorial and senate candidates. Hence, he gave the audience an inside look at 1984 campaign dynamics. As he stated, \It's a little bit like playing poker, you :play the cards dealt and then play the best hand you can make.\ Unfortunately for Mondale, there was a bad hand on the table. The electorate at that time was upbeat; it was satisfied with President Ronald Reagan's direction. Mondale and Peter Hart received a good indication of this happiness with the current president when Hart conducted an early summer survey and found that forty- three per cent would vote to reelect Reagan, twenty-nine per cent would vote to replace him, and twenty-eight per cent were open to suggestion. Hence, in order for Mondale to win, he would have had to win almost all the \open\ votes to be elected. Hart's strategy for Mondale was \to Q.raw toward an inside straight, the hardest hand to find in poker.\ This strategy had three key focus points. First, the election needed to become a referendUID about the future. Because of Reagan's invasions and deficit policies, fifty-seven per cent of the people :were worried about the country's future. By focusing on this aspect of Mondale' s campaign Hart hoped to in- crease that percentage and turn it into votes for Mondale. Second, Hart wanted to establish Mondale's credibility as a leader. Mondale's vice- presidential role under Jimmy Carter made people question his capability as a strong leader. These doubts were exacerbated by Reagan's overwhelming strength as a leader. The third focus point in Hart's strategy was on Reagan's weaknesses. Reagan was seen as weak in certain areas because of his policies which increased the deficit, caused waste in government, and ignored treatment of the poor and the needy. All of these issues were ones that could be used to Mondale's advantage. Then Peter Hart took the audience \behind-the-curtain\ to see the life .of a pollster and how he makes decisions. First, Hart explained focus groups. A focus group, as used by Hart, was usually a group of 12~15 people .selected on the basis of their candidate preferences. One group was used to determine the visibility of Gary Hart's campaign during the primaries. These group members were then asked a hypothetical question: \If the nation goes into a deep recession and then there is a political crisis, which candidate would you vote for?\ All the group members chose Mondale because he was steady and \seasoned\. Hart irmnediately called the advertising people and soon after an ad playing on this in- formation was ran. This ad became the \single longest running ad in political television.\ Hart also explained his firm's decisions during the primaries. After the fiasco in Ohio, Hart focused on two states, New Jersey and California. Mondale was faced with the choice of putting his resources into one of the two states. The decision was made to place the meager resources in New Jersey, hoping that enough momentum would be gained in New Jersey to carry into California. This strategy seemed to have worked, for although Mondale was not completely successful in California, he secured enough votes to gain the nomination. Finally, Hart gave an insight into the selection of Geraldine Ferraro as vic~-presidential candidate. Before she was selected, polling was used to determine her potential as a candidate. \Tremendous outpouring for a woman can- didate was noted. According to Hart, the selection of Ferraro \allowed us to reshuffle the deck\ which was very im- portant. The optimism surrounding Ferraro',s selection, however, died two weeks before the election. Hart's firm was well aware that Mondale would lose. A clear sign of this was polling conducted after the Kansas debate which did not improve Mondale's position. Hart thought that \it was probably among Mondale's best two weeks\ because Mondale \opened up and said this is what I'm fighting for.\ On a final note, Hart com- mented on Mondale's cam- paign. He stated, \There is no higher high or lower low than working on a presidential campaign. Nothing else tells you so much about American politics:\ CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1985 Wininger Broadens· Ideas By JOANNE McANDREWS Staff Visiting Assistant Professor of Philosophy Kate Wininger has joined the. Philosophy department for a two semester replacement position. Wininger received her un- dergraduate degree at Southern Connecticut State College with a double major in Philosophy and Art History. She continued her education at Temole Univer· sity, .earning her M.A. She is currently working on her ABD degree. In addition, she has studied in Italy, Austria, and Germany. Wininger is a member of the executive board of the Eastern division of the Society for Women in Philosophy (SWIP), .and is co- founder of the Delaware Valley SWIP. Her winter term courses include Philosophy 11- Philosophical Classics and Philosophy 133-Nineteenth Century Philosophy. During spring term Wininger will be treaching Philosophy 45- Aesthetics, Philosophy 149- Topics in Contemporary European Philosophy, and Philosophy 182•a seminar on Nietzsche, a German philosopher. Wininger believes that every student should take a philosophy course while in · college. She stated, \Philosophy has a tendency to broaden your ideas, and you learn the presuppositions behind different disciplines, as well as philosopher's philosophies.\ Continued Wininger, \Philosophy is an unusual discipline in that it's not something that people have had in high school, and as a consequence they have usuai:ly only been exposed to one philosophy-their religion. It is interesting to look inside dif- ferent systems of beliefs and practices and compare them to your own.\ This is Wininger's first ex- perience with the ten week term. She likes the fact that her classes meet four times a week because it allows for \con- tinuity in subject matter.\ Wininger is also enjoying Union's relatively small enrollment which allows for personal contact with her students. She commented, ''You can be an effective teacher when you know to whom you're talking.'' Wininger's personal interests in philosophy include Aesthetics and the · Philosophy of Feminism. She is interested in why people create art, how art is evaluated, and how artists see their work. Wininger is also concerned with ''the way in which sexism appears in philosophy,\ including the fact that women have been virtually left out of philosophy and history textbooks. Outside of the classroom, Wininger's interests include collecting antiques and fountain pens, traveling, hiking and visiting art museums. She concluded, \I like my students tremendously-they are open, resp~nsive and fun.\ Hale House to Close By DOUG LANDON Director of Food Service Jan Gray has announced some last minute changes in spring term dining privileges for upperclass meal card holders. Gray em- phasizes that she wants students aware of the alterations before they commit themsleves to meal plans for next term. On or about May 7, _Hale House and Old Chapel dining facilities will close for the remainder ·Of the academic year. At that tim~, the Hale House kitchen is scheduled to be razed, and a completely new cooking and serving system installed. The work was originally scheduled for the summer, but Gray explains that the con- tractors need more time and will consequently begin earlier. Gray wants the project to be finished when students return in September. Fall term, she explains, has the greatest meal plan participation because enrollment is highest. Food Service generally issues less contracts in the spring, so the Hale closing will theoretically inconvenience the fewest people possible. For dinners after the closing date, upperclassmen will have· their choice of eating ill · the Rathskeller, West College, or the Dutch Hollow Pub. For lunches, however, options remain limited to the Skeller and West. Lunch trade at the Pub, Gray explains, is too heavy for the facility to ac- commodate meal card patrons. Also, the Pub is not equipped to serve fried or boiled items, or ice cream. Food Service intends to make pamphlets explaining the situation available at each dining establishment before exam week, so that students have a full understanding of plans before purchasing their spring meal cards. The renovations, according to Gray, will allow the Hale kit- chen to serve both contract and cash customers. Dutc)l Hollow frequenters m~y then join upperclass card holders at Hale and Old Chapel, when the Pub becomes inoperative due to College Center construction. Gray notes that no changes are scheduled for meal plan options next term, and regrets any problems caused by the rearrangement. ASK ABOUT OUR YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT.. . . YOU'VE EARNED IT. r \ _...:.;. -~ ........ ' vvJ<¥1_ .. ORANGE MOTORS CO. Call: DENNIS HURLEY, JR. 799 Central Ave., ~lbany, NY 489-5414 ' .

con- for her You ~her u're ests of in art in in ~lly nd to or ke re of to w CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1985 Page3 Students Attend Forum By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Staff Student Forum met on Monday, March 4th at 4:30. Several important issues were discussed. The meeting was also marked by a large at- tendance of guests. First on the agenda to be addressed was the area of \old business.\ More specifically, the proposals made last week for (the Forum's suggeStion to) the administration to take over the financial responsibilities of the Crew Club, Union Choir, and Cheerleaders. These organizations are presently funded by the Forum. Each club was handled as a separate proposal, with separate roll call votes for each. The proposals for \transfer of financial responsibility (of the Cheerleaders and Union Rowing Association) to the college administration\ passed. However, some discussion arose as to the proposal ef- fecting the Union Choir. Several Choir members were present, who all believed that they had not been given adequate time to examine the ramifications of such a maneuver. For example, Senior Eileen O'Connell stated, \Although the present financing problems were explained to us, we (the Choir) have not had time to examine possible solutions to these problems. We do not know what this new relationship with the Arts Department implies. We ask for a postponement to fihd out.\ Senior Trustee Shari Midoneck obliged O'Connell's request by making a motion to table the proposal until April 8th, when discussion of the issue would continue. The motion passed. . · . The· focus of the meeting then turned from \old business\ to the committee reports. Chairman of the Committee on Committees ( CoC) Sue Brand only reported that the deadline has been extended one week for the application to the Student Affairs Council (SAC). No reports were heard from either the SAC, Inter-Fraternity Council, or Academic Affairs Council, due to the absence of Forum members on those respective committees. Matching Funds Proposed Vice President of Finance Brian Laux did, however, present the Finance Committee report. At their last meeting a matching funds proposal for the Crew Team's Erg-a~Thon was approved. The matching funds allocation of $250 is contingent upon their raising of $500 from the event. Also, Laux anft nounced that Monday March 11 is the budgeting meeting for .an club heads where finance materials will be distributed. Budgets will be due April 16. New Business became the central area of discussion. The major issue of discussion was not one brought up by a Forum member, but a complaint made by Dave Fitzgerald, features editor of Concordiensis, about the running of the editor-in- chief elections held last week. Fitzgerald had come prepared with a statement to be read to the Forum. However, a motion needed to be made to initiate discussion. Senior Representative Lynne O'Brien made a motion that the Forum, as Concordiensis publisher, order the newspaper · to hold new editor~in-chief elections. With a motion made, Fitzgerald was allowed to begin reading his statement. Concordiensis Elections The statement contended that the recently held March 26 elections for editor-in-chief were unfair. Several problems in the election were cited in- cluding the fact that the Concordiensis constitution had been expired since June of last year and the criteria used to determine who was eligible to vote differed from that stated in the constitution of Con- cordiensis. The statement continued in this vein, citing evidence collected by Fitzgerald and others, indicating the possibility of an unfair election. Evidence was then given in the statement as to why such impropriety might occur. Soon after entering this subject area, President Benson stopped Fitzgerald from going on because he believed that the CoC should handle the issue. Fitzgerald then summarized the desires of the authors of the statement: that an objectively run reelection with set voting criteria occur, and that the Forum respond to a letter which will appear in the next issue in Concordiensis. Junior Trustee Andrew George then took the floor, and moved to reopen the discussion. \I feel that there are feeUngs hurt and questions rais~d. This is something very serious .that needs to be addressed by the Forum . . . the fact that two twenty-two year olds could not properly run an election in- censes me, and also proves that action needs to be taken. We can not simply throw the problem back and let the editors of Concordy work it out.\ Senior Representative Doug Landon concurred with George and thought that the issues raised by a petition (signed by · 21 Concordiensis members which was submitted by Fit- zgerald) be acted upon. The petition also called for an ob- jectively run second election. Landon then made a friendly amendment to O'Brien's motion, calling for the Elections Committee to monitor and run the new elections. The new motion read as follows: \The Student Forum moves that elections for editor- in-chief of Concordiensis be rerun with the Elections Committee rerunning the elections.\ Fitzgerald spoke again, ex- plaining his position; \Our problem involves a dispute over who could vote in the election. If it were a fair election, some of the disorganization which was present would not have bothered us. It is the rumors surrounding the incident which bother us . . • they need to be cleared up.\ CoC Chairman Sue Brand .Other Papers May Come and Go ' .;t~OtD •N 1/ ~I d' C!toncor·~-~\: bltnst~ Established ol''\\L:c:..o 1877 J.;-,. ~ ... ~NICT ... P~ Continuous Service to the Union Community for 108 Years differed from Fitzgerald's position. \Concordy is responsible for the running. of its elections. It is very im- portant that the editors, all of the editors, work out a system .. this is an internal problem w:hich should be worked out within Concordy.'' .c +- 1.. Landon differed, stating, ''I can agree with the editors establishing new voting criteria for the elections. This will come about with the new constitution. However, we (the Forum) need to intercede in this special case ... \ !0 co .c Ill 1.. Ill VI >- -. .0 -0 .... -·o Other opinions were voiced by Forum members and students alike. Most of the points focused on the necessity to separate the establishment of voting criteria in the ·· running of a second election. However, discussion. was ended when Brian Laux \called the question\-made a formal motion to end discussion . Reelection Proposal Passed A vote was then taken to end discussion of the issue. The motion passed 10 yes, 1 no, 2 abstentions. A second vote was a suggestion that the Forum run a second election. This motion also passed, 7 yes, 4 no, 2 ab- stentions. George then stated that he will notify Concordiensis of the decision, and of the eligibility requirements of voters in the election. He next made a motion requesting that he draft the response letter requested by Fitzgerald. This motion also passed. It was lastly noted that the CoC will be conducting an in- vestigation into the supposed election improprieties. With no other new business to address, a motion was made to . adjourn, . which passed unanimously. Editor's Note: For the record, the editorial board of Con- cordiensis was not present at the aforementioned Forum meeting, and as such had no opportunity to respond to allegations made. Jacqueline Trescott, Visiting Woodrow Wilson Professor, and a Washington Post reporter, describes the direction newspapers are taking. Trescott Speaks By LAUREN SANDERS .staff Last Thursday, Jacqueline Trescott, a visiting Woodrow Wilson professor, spoke to Dean Daniels' political science class. Daniels invited Trescott to speak about the government in the press, as it relates to the course curriculwn. Trescott has been a .reporter in Washington for the past fifteen years and has worked for both The Star and The Washington Post, where she is presently employed. Because most news in Washington in- volves politics and politicians, Trescott is an authority on government and the mass media. Trescott began to speak about the government control, or lack thereof, of the press. While radio and television are con- trolled by the government, newspapers are free enterprise and thus protected by the first amendment. There are, . however, traditional· checks On the press, such as letters to the editor or project censored, an annual report on under- reported media stories. ln the past ten years a new kind of reporter has emerged. The job of this reporter is to scrutinize the newspaper every day, print an internal memo for the other reporters, and frequently write a column based upon discovered trends and conclusions. Trescott claimed that these checks on the press enable the newspaper to monitor itself. Trescott sees the future trend in regulation of the press coming more from lawyers than from the government. The Sharon and Westmoreland libel cases have raised a serious question about the extent of the freedom of the press. Since the Grenada invasion, the press has been pushing for more openness by the govern~ ment, but the administration is slightly wary of this. Govern- ment agencies are following the trend to move away from regulation of the press, yet Trescott sees future regulations to stem more from lawsuits, than from government regulations. Trescott said that it was nice to be visiting Union and that she was very impressed with the student body. \The students here seem really infQrmed about the political and social issues that will begin to effect them within the next four years,\ stated Trescott after her lecture. The students at Union seemed to be equally impressed by Trescott. Clubs Funds to Transfer Continued from pa2e 1 One of O'Connell's main concerns is, if funded by the administration, \Would we have to do what they want us to do'? We are. a student activity, not an academic one, and we would like to maintain our in- dependence.\ The proposal for transfer of the Union College Cheerleaders was also passed at Monday's Forum meeting. The main reason for requesting that this club's finances be transferred is that previously, the Forum has had to \deny travel expenses to the Cheerleaders because of financial constraints\ ac- cording to the written resolution. Because of the unavoidable financial denial, the Cheerleaders have personally had to assume much of the financial responsibility in order to represent the College. Also, in most comparable schools, cheerleading is con- sidered to oe a varsity sport. Cheerleader President Sue Morse believes .that the College needs to realize the importance of the club. \We have tryouts and practices just like other athletic teams.\ Morse believes the cheerleaders are an important . part of athletics here at Union. VVhen asked to comment on the proposal to the ad- ministration, Morse says she supports the change, as then people will realize the club's importance as well as the members' enthusiasm. Lack of funds is the main problem for the cheerleaders, and Morse is \glad for the change as long as the athletic department can insure our financing.\ A recommendation to the administration to accept these proposals of transferring the finacial responsibilities of both the UCRA and the Cheerleaders was made by the student trustees, Shari Midoneck and Andrew George, last Tuesday, March 5. No final decision has yet been made to determine whether or not this recom- mendation will be carried through. . Attention All Students: Student Survey at Registration The Academic Affairs Committee, with the support of the Student Forum, will survey student opinion at Spring Term Registration. This survey is a component of the periodic review of the liberal learning curriculum at the College and thus is designed to ascertain student assessments of the quality and effectiveness of Liberal Learning courses taken outside the major. This review, as you may be aware, also follows two important national reports on college curriculum, namely The Bennett Report and a report released by the Association of American Colleges. The questionnaires to be distributed are designed to secure information useful and pertinent to the AAC. Students will be asked to complete a questionnaire for each liberal learning course completed. The AAC and the Student Forum have concluded that student input is an essential component in the process of curriculum review and urges your careful an'd considerate participation in this Important assessment. c. 0.

Page4 PROUDLY PRESENTS: Act 1-- DREENA WEBSTER w I Lisa Fratianni and Act U--EVAN SCHWARTZ with Master of Ceremonies--BUBBA KOONCE Tonite--shows at 9:00 and 11:00. Tickets on sale at Student Activities des~. Be there! ---------------------------~ I . \Hair- today, gone tomorrow\ I I P·ERMANENT HAIR REMOVAL I I We u\e the Oll·ne~ ~nortwove INSTANfRON electrolysiS e-qu1pment. feahmng ond .prov1d1ng the besl most 1 comtortCible treatment for tile remov.al of unwonted herr on the FACE ARMS. lEGS 011d BODY I *FREE CONSULTATION* FREE DEMONSTRATION* FREE BROCHURE ON REQUEST* I I FREE TREATMENT I I . I 1 and 20% OFF ON ANY FUTURE 1 I TREATMENTS WITHtN 30 DAYS! I •• New Putionls only, whl!l'l ad is presentell on initial visit Ill oniloccrtlan onlv. Valid thru 3/16/85 II CC7 1 - ALICE A. BAKER, INC. I I lllS4\ Est. 1972 Graduate of Kree Institute * Memher of N. Y .E.A., A.E.A. and the Guild! I I •. . 127 Canal Square, Schenectady 382-0087 I I 363 CENTRAl AVE., ALBANY, N.Y. 12206 462-5678 I ---------------------------~ College Party Week Includes: • Round tnp 1et flrght from New York or Boston. Add $20 from Baltimore, $40 from Philadelphia. · • 7 nights rn Bermuda. Choice of lodging. • Bermuda College Weeks sponsored by the Department of Tourism. Free beach parties. dances. barbeque lunches. live rock bands, harbour cruises. • Full breakfast and dinner daily with choice of menu (wrth hotel meal package). • Round trip transfers between Bermuda airport and your accommodations. • Discount moped rentals available. • Fully equipped kitchenettes (with deluxe apartment complexes). • On location professional tour escorts. Don't miss out on the trip\of the year! Send your deposit today. TRIP DATES AND PRICES -------- Feb Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Apr Apr Apr Apr Lodging 23 2 9 16 23 30 6 13 20 27 Guesthouse $299 $299 $299 $299 $299 $299 · $299 $299 $299 $299 Deluxe Apartment Complexes 319 319 319 319 319 319 319 319 319 319 Mermaid Beach w1thoul meal: 369 369 369 369 369 369 369 369 369 369 Mermaid Beach w1th meals 5<J9 509 509 509 509 509 509 509 509 509 May May May May Jun Jun Jun Jun Jun Lodging 4 11 18 25 1 8 15 22 29 Guesthouse 359 359 359 359 359 359 359 359 359 Deluxe Apartment Comptexe~ 399 399 399 399 399 399 399 399 399 Mermaid Beach without meal: 449 449 449 449 449 449 449 449 449 Mermard Beach w1th meals 589 589 589 589 589 589 589 589 589 ------ All prices plus 15% tax & services • $25 price increase is now in effect and must be added to above prices. ---------------------~-------~------- 501 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10022 • (212) 355-4705 Today' a dele EnciOIKI Ia $ ___ ($50 capoalt ~r peraon) Flight dealred from-------- Trip O.pirrture Oat• -------------- Chock Onc: 0 Gueathouae r l D•luxe Apartment Complexes 0 Hotel without meals [< Hotel with meals LAST NAME MIIMr _____________ First ----- Age __ _ .... ________________ __ City a. .. __________ Zip __ _ ~--------------- J CONCORDIENSIS, March .7, 1985 1984-85 Spr.ing Term Registration Procedures Spring term classes will begin at 8:30a.m. on Monday, April lst. Student schedules will be distributed to campus mailboxes prior to the beginning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy of their class schedule wi.H be able to secure a copy at the Alumni Gymnasium beginning at 8:00a.m. on the first day of classes. Formal registration and validation of J.D. cards will take place in Alumni Gym- nasium on Monday and Tuesday, Aprillst and 2nd. Students should register according to the following schedule unles there is a conflict with a class: Last Name Report A- E ............................. ~- ........... Monday morning, 8:30-11:30 a.m. F- K .......................................... Monday afternoon, 1:00-4:00 p.m. L-R .......................................... Tuesdaymorning,8:30-11:30a.m. S- Z ............•............................. Tuesday afternoon, 1 :00-4:00p.m. - Registration will not be permitted if a studen·t has not settled his/her spring term bill or any other outstanding debts owed the College. A representative of the Business Office will be present ay the Gymnasium to handle late payments of term bills and to help resolve any billing problems Students are reminded that completion of formal registration procedures is reCJuired of all students regardless of whether or not a student has preregistered. Failure to register may jeopardize financial aid awards ar:~d academic credit. Registration after Wednesday, April 3rd wi II be considered late and a fee of $25 will be assessed. This fee must be pai.d prior to registration Schedule Changes In addition to formal registration, schedule changes (the adding and/or dropping of courses) may be done at Alumni Gymnasium from Monday, Apri.llst thru Wednesday, April 3rd and thereafter at the_ Registrar's Office in Silrimar:~ Hall. The last day for making schedule changes without special permission, as well as the last day to declare \pass-fail\ intentions for a course, is Friday, April 5th. Any course dropped after that date will result in a grade of \W'' ( Withdraw). .COLLEGE SPRING BRE()g\D~ PLUS $20 TAX & SERVICE ROUND TRIP MOTORCOACH TRANSPORTATION 9 Days • 7 Nights DAYI'ONA BEACH. * TRIP D_ATES * March 2 ·March 9 March 9 · Mnr·ch 16 March 16 · Mnrch 23 March 23 · MArch 30 Maret• 30 · Apr·il G Aprd 6 · Aprrl 13 TOUR RATE INCLUDES: e Round T rrp T ranspo1·tat1on v1a arr condrtroned-lavatory equrpped motorcoach to D.1ytona Beach and Ft. Lauderdale. o Conven1ent Departure Pornts FORT lAUDERDALE TRANSPORTATION: Round trip transportation is available on our coaches. Motorcoaches depart from main bus ter- minals in major cities. Service is express making only food stops. Departure times and dates have been caref.ully planned to coincide with the check -in time of the hotels. Coaches depart on Friday and arrive back the following Sunday. Departure dates are: Mar. 1 return Mar. 10, Mar. 8 return Mar. 17, Mar. 15 return Mar. 24, Mar. 22 return Mar. 31, Mar. 29 return Apr. 7, Apr. 5 return Apr. 14. Coaches are the most modern up-to-date models with reclining seats and are fully air conditioned and lavatory equipped for your comfort. ~·ctyve_ - fout/ BOOK EARLY! Ltmited Hotel Space in Ft. Lauderdale and Daytona Beach 252-02 Northern Boulevard • Little Neck, New York 11363 New York Crty Long Island Westchester New Jersey 718-631·3800 516·222-0155 914-997-0140 201-623-4868 The distribution of all budgeting materials will take place at a general meeting to be held on Monday 1 March 11, 1985 at 4:30 in the Banquet Room of Carnegie Hall. On May. 1, 1985, there is the deadline for spending. After this date no vouchers will be given to clubs 1 and no money may be spent without the consent of the Finance Committee. This has been done to prevent late bills. Listen To: WRUC 89.7 FM The NC:AA Division II HOCKEY PLAYOFFS (If Union is involved) March 15-16-22-23 With Eric Hornick & Scott Wykoff If either the Union Hockey or Basketball teams won last night, WRUC Will have their ECAC Championship games. Saturday Hockey • 6:45 p.m. Hoops • 7:45p.m. If both teams win, the basketball game will air on a tape-delayed basis . (folloWing hockey).

~port a.m. p.m. a.m. p.m. bill ness to ired to g of for are of ·at a be 5 at Hall. 985, be the has • • FM the air . CONCORDJENSJS, March 7, 1985 PageS Amnesty International The Right Fight By MARGARET BOITANO Arnnesty International (AI) is a worldwide human ri•ghts organization that advocates the secure release of prisoners of conscience, fair trials for all political prisoners, as well as the abolition of torture and execution. Union College is the setting for one of the few AI campus groups in existence and is responsible for dealing with actions from China and the Philippines,. Indonesia, and East Timor Regions. It is a non- political, religious or govern- mental organization that is concerned with the fact that human rights are a human responsibility which must be protected. Every month the Inter- national Secretariat chooses three cases of 'prisoners of conscience'-rnen and women who have been detained for their beliefs, color, sex, ethnic origin etc., who have not used or advocated violence. AI's goal is to get these prisoners released while achieving a heightened By DOUG LANDON WRUC Promotions Manager Outgoing senior executive board members Scott Wykoff, Kathi Zuckerman and Doug Landon conducted a fair and uncontested election for next year's board this past Monday evening. Rob Garry was voted into the station's top office, that of general manager. Scott Elkind continues as programming manager, and Jackie Hatfield joins the board as promotions manager. Replacing Garry as technical manager is Mike Bowman, while sports director Eric Hornick assumes the role of business manager. About forty staff members showed up for the vote, and, interestingly enough, the same nllinber of ballots were cast. Newly elected officers take charge at the beginning of spring term. On the Trivia scene, WRUC wishes to thank all those who participated in this year's contest, and congratulates the winners. According to our unofficial scores, Davidson wins the $150 beverage certificate in its competition with Fox. In the fraternities and other dorms category, Phi Neat Guys takes first place and first prize, followed by the Zeta Beta Terminiators in second. \Bob\ garners first place in the in- dependent contest, with South Rebels III right behind. Again, these rankings remain unofficial, pending successful challenges. See the adjoining table for a complete unofficial listing. WRUC has one remaining term in its present location, since the station must be moved to accommodate Carnegie Hall- College Center renovations. We JSU Elections Come and Vote TONIGHT Kosher Kitchen • 8:00 awareness about human rights through means such as in- dividual and mass letter writing, petitions, and publicity including public meeting. VolWlteers from all over the world lend their support by contributing time, effort, or money to this international cause. Urgent Actions, immediate appeals in emergency cases, are a clever tool AI uses to act quickly to stop torture and save lives. Letters or telegrams from specialist groups are sent to the authorities in the country concerned in an effort to arrest or prevent further torture. Recently the Union College branch finished a letter sending , campaign for some Haitian prisoners who were arrested and detained but not charged. A new Urgent Action campaign will soon commence for political prisoners in 'Zaire. Anyone interested in getting involved in this organization can do so by joining their weekly meetings at Stage II on Tuesday nights, 7:30 P.M. WRUC 89.7 fat • STEREO invite newfound interest in college radio to join us for the spring, and in our temporary quarters next year. Once again, Scott, Kathi and I wish our successors the best of fortune in their management of WRUC. v WOMEN I c E By AMY OPPENHEIMER I have made several false starts to this article because I have been trying not to write like an angry feminist and thus alienate a great number of you who may begin to read this .. However, I am angry. Try as I might to remain objective, I Unofficial Results WRUC TRIVIA 1985 Fox-Davidson Zeta Beta Tomatoes Davidson 36 Am, Soc. Red M&M,s Fox ll Team--'88 Olympics Great Minds Frats- Other Dorms Two Lonely Guys Phi Neat Guys 40 Acme Tools ZB Terminators 34 Tri-Pod Hickok Trojans 27 Bikini Men Webster Spor;ts Beans 13 Court Gestures South 9 Zoo Crew Cloud Kings Independents 4th Floor Studs Bob 33 Bettys South Rebels Ill 26 Passion Palace Cherry Pickers 15 . Mystic Rulers Court Gestures Improvisational Comedy Troupe Seeks New Members Here's your chance to become a. comedian. Everyone's a comedian. You may ask, what are the Court Gestures (even after seeing us per- formO. The Answer: We are a group of regular students who enjoy· using our imaginations to create new stories in a comical way. All of this occurs on stage as the audience watches. We improvise humorous as well as thought- provoking situations on stage, off the tops of our heads. so if you are interested in flexing your imaginations to create a variety of life's scenes, then come to open auditions Thursday (tonight) March 7th, 1985, at 8 p.m. in Stage II, Carnegie Hall. IEF. • • 10 6 5 3 3 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Continued from page 1 Affairs Council. One faculty member represents each of the four college divisions: Social Sciences, Humanities, Sciences, and Engineering. The subcouncil announces proposal deadlines in the fall and late spring through Con- cordiensis and notices distributed to resident advisors. The application forms can be picked up in Kaplan's office, SlOO (South Wing, Science and Engineering). FEATURES realize I cannot be. I am angered by the control exer- cised over niy body by a medical profession that has, for so loHg, been male dominated. I am angered by medical practices geated to doctors needs regardless of the harm or need of the patients. Practices such as the treatment of pregnancy as a disease necessitating a doctors in- trusive technique; practices which include the over diagnosis of women as neurotic and determine a psychosomatic cause to much of her illness, \it's all in her head\. I am angered by the professionalization of medicine and the accompanying \exorcism\ of midwives. I am angered by the control that this change creates. Increased physician defined need for professional, medical services removes woman from her own body and creates a dependency on a medical profession that does not always respond adequately to her needs. Barbara Ehrenreich and Dierdre English are also dissatisfied with the medical system and the control it exercises -over women. They describe the medical system as \strategic for women's liberation\ . . . and . . . \to women's oppression\. Medical science, according to them, \has been one of the most powerful sources of sexist ideology in our culture\. This is a powerful statement, one that cannot be ignored . Ehrenreiche and English go on to describe how medical science has had such an impact on social policy. It provides \justifications for sexual discrimination-in education, in jobs, in public life\ because such justifications rely on the differentiation of women from men: our bodies, our biology. It \echos the prevailing male sentiment by treating pregnancy and menopause as diseases, menstruation as a chronic disorder, childbirth as a surgical event\. It has \inherited from religion its role as a guardian of sexist ideology \by providing medical evidence of woman's physical infirmiries (rather than her moral weakness) to justify male dominance. Medicine also controls women's sexual ac- tivity by controlling reproduction. . Ehrenreiche and English describe what, historically, the medical profession thOught of women. Medicine identified all female functions as inherently sick, puberty was a crisis, menstraution was always pathological, pregnancy was a disease (and required a doctor not a midwife) and menopause was the final incurable ill, the \death of the woman in the woman\. Ehrenreich and English point out the over abundance of doctors and their resulting interest in lots of sick women. This, combined with his obligation as a doctor to discover the source of women's problems, resulted in the \proposition of medical theories that were actually justifications of women's social role\. Puberty, menstruation, pregnancy, childbirth, and menopauSe may not be defined as illness, but the same doctors who treat disease claim these conditions for their care in the hospital where disease is treated. In a review of medical texts Diana Scully and Pauline Bart show that as late as 1973 women's sexuality was misdefined; over one half of the gynecology texts aeclared most women to be frigid (See a Funny thing Happened on the way to the Orifice: Women in Gynecology Textbooks, American Journal of Socilogy 78(4): 1045). Ehrenreich and English conclude that women are even more dependent on doctors than they were in 1900, doctors control contraception and define sexual unresponsiveness as a problem. They say that the medical profession helped to create the popular notion of woman as sickly, now it has blamed the victim by defining women patients as \silly self- indulgent and superstitious\. Medicine no longer limits women's activity because of her physical instability, now our role is defined as emotionally volatile. We are mentally weak, because we are subject to our hormones. People now question, \Can we have a woman in .the White House?, She may be too emotional each month\. In rereading this I see I have horribly maligned the medical profession. I have, in part, meant to do this. I am angry at the control that is exercised through the medical system and th~ justifications. it provides for this control. Yet I also realize that not all physicians seek to maintain this control nor do all women resist it. Religion provided the jLstification originally, if medicine had not accepted the role, another in- stitution would have. My hope is that we all begin to examine our lives and take back the control we need, that the medical profession be reexamined and real needs be recognized, finally. I have .given a very general overview of this situation. If you would like to read more, see these works by Barbara Ehrenreich and Dierdre English; Complaints and Disorders: The Sexual Politics of Sickness, and For Her Own Good: 150 years. of the experts' advice to women. Most of the information in this article was taken from their work.

Page6 CONCORDIENSJS, March 7, 1985 (!tll11.Cllrbirnsis LETTERS --~--- Foundd at {!moo Col/~ 187'! ------ Election Complaints Library Commended To the Editor: this election, it would be best for At the Student Forum all if the contenders were given a second chance. Schaffer Ubrary has long been criticized for its few meeting of March 4, 1985, I H f represented twenty-one Alsoatthemeeting, a number res,ources. owever ~ or a small liberal arts college, members of Concordiensis that of accusations were made Uruon's library is comparable to those of similar signed a petition asking the concerning the alleged sized schoo~. Of course, this has not always quelled Forum for new and impartial irresponsibility and unethical the frustration of the student who needs various elections for the positions of co- behavior of one of the co- resources to write a report due the following week. editors-in chief of Con- editors-in-chief while in office. N rth cordiensis. The twenty-one It is my hope that the Com- eve eless, the College has done its best to make students that signed the petition mittee on Committees takes . cordiensis has played a major role in my college career. Until recently I have always enjoyed participating in this activity but circumstances now .prevent this · from being the case. It is my hope that whoever wins the second election will be able to restore the dignity and pride to Concordiensis that the campus expects. the quest for informative materials available' to the felt that due to the sloppiness of these accusations seriously and student through its inter-library loan system. the election of February 26, 1985 handles this matter fairly. Sincerely, This form of a lending library has made it possible _ an<lthe rumors that surrounded Since freshman year, Con- DavidJ. Fitzgerald '85 for the student and faculty member to acquire almost 1-------------------------------- Forum Criticized any book or magazine article desired. All he or she needs to know is the actual resource being sought; an easy enough piece of information to find thanks to many in-depth bibliographies as well as Books in Print catalogand the Readers' Guide to Periodical Literature. Schaffer's inter-library loan staff works very hard to get requested materials to the student as quickly as possible; very rarely can an article or book not be located. This group should be commended for the results it gets; without an inter-library loan system, students and £acuity would find it difficult to ac- complish much research without venturing to larger libraries, such as SUNY's. The inter-library loan people provide a valuable service to the campus. Yes, Schaffer Library is small, but it provides access to many other library bookshelves. Even some larger colleges cannot boast such an ability. Learning Liberally The Academic Affairs Council. _(AAC) in cooperation with the Student Forum IS now un- dertaking a study of the liberal learning system. A survey will be presented to the student body next term. The Liberal Learning system at Union is an im- portant part of the Union curriculum. A revision of the system may certainly be necessary in light of various studies, such as one published by the Association of American Colleges, that have been conducted recently on college curriculums. Such a reform cannot be conducted without the full suport of, and input from, the students here at Union. The AAC and the Forum are welcoming such input. It is hoped that students will take this opportunity to objectively assess the current liberal learning system. It is not often that our opinions are invited. We now have the opportunity to participate in a major review of what has been viewed as an essential part of Union. Registrar Praised . The Registrar is to be commended for an efficient handling of this term's preregistration system. Cards were distributed in an orderly manner and no student was forced to wake up at unreasonable hours in the morning for fear of not obtaining necessary cards.· Some students were put off by the presence of a security guard blocking the entrance to the registration site in Silliman Hall. However, such measures were felt necessary and assured an orderly processing of course requests. The card chaos has been corrected, it seems, from the havoc that occurred during fall term. No, it does nat excuse the administration for what had happened. However, they have shown genuine concern this time around. Students are often quick to criticize but slow to commend. Preregistration is a time that is usually characterized by much griping on campus. Most students had little to gripe about this time around. Letters to the editor commentaries do and not necessarily refl.ect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis. To the Editors, We feel obligated to express our disappointment with the manner in which certain members of the Student Forum reacted, at the Forum's March 4 meeting, to allegations of improprieties in the recent Concordiensis elections. Our purpose in writing this letter is not to support or refute allegations made by a group of 21 Concordy writers led by Dave Fitzgerald, as the veracity of Dave's testimony was not challenged by the Forum. Instead, we seek to show that the Forum recognized that a problem exists and that some Forum members seem to have been trying to avoid the responsibility ·as this school's student government to in- vestigage the allegations made, to devise a fair resolution to this dispute and to ultimately ad- monish those guilty. Forum president Steve Benson should be commended for preventing the discussion of these allegations from degeneraij}.lg into a free-for-all. However, Steve's handling of this situation was otherwise inconsistent with the respon- sibility of a student leader to actively pursue a matter as serious as allegations of elec- tion improprieties in any school organization, especially one as important as Concordy. After allowing Dave Fitzgerald to deliver part of a prepared statement outlining his group's grievances, Steve suddenly closed discussion. Let this be clearly understood-Steve did not seek to stop Dave's address, but to end discussion of the subject altogher. In thereafter attempting to refer the matter to the Committee on Com- mittees ( CoC), Steve ap- parently believed that Dave's address, albeit lengthy, was simply a litany of grievances and allegations against one of the Concordy editors. If Steve had exercised the self-restraint that good student leaders must sometimes have, he would have found (as he later did) that in concluding Dave had some very specific requests to make of the Forum. Granted, the Forum was not exactly the appropriate place to present detailed evidence of the charges made; yet when Steve cut off discussion, Dave had only one more page to read-the page on which he made his request for Forum intervention in this matter. . Later in the meeting, while Andrew George was addressing the Forum about this matter, Steve began to leave the table without excusing himself. Many people present had no ide~;~ what Steve was trying to do until he mumbled something about having to leave. In addition, after getting up, Steve made an announcement which had ab- solutely nothing to do with Ute subject at hand. Not only did Steve unnecessarily interrupt Andy, but he seemed to display dii·~- ~ \'\'\\'.Ill- • ~- ..... -~'··· -~ • - ~ : . ~ surprising lack of interest in the very serious accusations made by the Concordy group. The reaction of Sue Brand, CoC Chariman, was also somewhat disappointing. As CoC chairman, one would ex- pect that she would have been more than interested in actively investigating these charges. When Andy George endorsed Dave Fitzgerald's call for an investigation by the CoC, Sue seemed extremely reluctant to inhlve her corn.rilittee. She,like many other Forum members, said that she prefered that the Concordiensis Editorial Board resolve this situation them- selves, and that Forum in- tervention, in the form of a CoC investigation and an order for new Forum-supervised elec- tions, would only set a bad precedent. However, Sue and those who agreed with her were avoiding recognition of the fact that an appeal for Forwn in- tervention made by 21 Concordy members indicates a high degree of dissension and distrust in the ranks of the paper, that the matter at hand could only be resolved by the intervention of a higher authority. Instead of asking what kind of precedent Forum intervention would set, Sue and those who agreed with her should ask what is the message that they are sending to the students of Union College by failing to respond to these allegations in .a resolute manner; can people cheat on this campus with impunity? The reluctance initially ex- pressed by various members of the Student Forum indicates that they were not aware of-or ignoring-the gravity of the charges made. Steve Benson seems either to have been trying to squelch public discussion of this matter or to have been insufficiently in- terested in the charges. Steve did not stop Dave Fitzgerald's speech because it was too long, in depth or inflammatory; if that had been the case, then he should have immediately asked Dave what he wanted instead of turning the matter over to a committee, as he attempted to do. Sue Brand and others seemed to have wanted to avoid the unpleasant business of Forum intervention and in- vestigation. However, people in positions of responsibility must all too often perform unpleasant tasks. While the Forwn ultimately approved a motion to authOrize and supervise new Con- cordiensis elections, it did so without, it seems, a universal expression, by the members of the Forum, of concern, interest or a willingness to involve the Forum. In addition, action was only approved because of the active encouragement of a handful of Forum members and spectators. The Forum did not, however, clearly and unequivocally direct the CoC to investigate the allegations Continued on page 7

Page6 <!tllltfllrhtrnsis Fowu:J,:J at Umon College 1877' ------------ --------· Library Commended Schaffer Library has long been criticized for its few resources. However, for a small liberal arts college, Union's library is comparable to those of similar sized schools. Of course, this has not always quelled the frustration of the student who needs various resources to write a report due the following week. Nevertheless, the College has done its best to make the quest for informative materials available· to the student through its inter-library loan system. This form of a lending library has made it possible for the stud~nt and faculty member to acquire almost any book or magazine article desired. All he or she needs to know is the actual resource being sought; an easy enough piece of information to find thanks to many in-depth bibliographies as well as Books in Print catalogand the Readers' Guide to Periodical Literature. Schaffer's inter-library loan staff works very hard to get requested materials to the student as quickly as possible; very rarely can an article or book not be located. This group should be commended for the results it gets; without an inter-library loan system, students and faculty would find it difficult to ac- complish much research without venturing to larger libraries, such as SUNY's. The inter-library loan people provide a valuable service to the campus. Yes, Schaffer Library is small, but it provides access to many other library bookshelves. Even some larger colleges cannot boast such an ability. Learning Liberally The Academic Mfairs Council (AAC) in cooperation with the Student Forum is now un- dertaking a study of the liberal learning system. A survey will be presented to the student body next term. The Liberal Learning system at Union is an im- portant part of the Union curriculum. A revision of the system may certainly be necessary in light of various studies, such as one published by the Association of American Colleges, that have been conducted recently on college curriculums. Such a reform cannot be conducted without the full suport of, and input from, the students here at Union. The AAC and the Forum are welcoming such input. It is hoped that students will take this opportunity to objectively assess the current liberal learning system. It is not often that our opinions are invited. We now have the opportunity to participate in a major review of what has been viewed as an essential part of Union. Registrar Praised The Registrar is to be commended for an efficient handling of this term's preregistration system. Cards were distributed in an orderly manner and no student was forced to wake up at unreasonable hours in the morning for fear of not obtaining necessary cards. Some students were put off by the presence of a security guard blocking the entrance to the registration site in Silliman Hall. However, such measures were felt necessary and assured an orderly processing of course requests. The card chaos has been corrected, it seems, from the havoc that occurred during fall term. No, it does not excuse the administration for what had happened. However, they have shown genuine concern this time around. Students are often quick to criticize but slow to commend. Preregistration is a time that is usually characterized by much griping on campus. Most students had little to gripe about this time around. : . ' . ' . . ... . . . CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1985 LET'TERS Election Complaints To the Editor: At the Student Forum meeting of March 4, 1985, I represented twenty-one members of Concordiensis that signed a petition asking the Forum for new and impartial elections for the positions of co- editors-in chief of Con- cordiens·is. The twenty-one students that signed the petition felt that due to the sloppiness of the election of February 26, 1985 and the rumors that surrounded this election, it would be best for all if the contenders were given a second chance. Also at the meeting, a number of accusations were made concerning the alleged irresponsibility and unethical behavior of one of the co- editors-in-chief while in office. It is my hope that the Com- mittee on Committees takes these accusations seriously and handles this matter fairly. Since freshman year, Con- cordiensis has played a major role in my college career. Until recently I have always enjoyed participating in this activity but circumstances now prevent this from being the case. It is my hope that whoever wins the second election will be able to restore the dignity and pride to Concordiensis that the campus expects. Sincerely, David J. Fitzgerald '85 Forum Criticized To the Editors, We feel obligated to express our disappointment with the manner in which certain members of the Student Forum reacted, at the Forum's March 4 meeting, to allegations of improprieties in the recent Concordiensis elections. Our purpose in writing this letter is not to support or refute allegations made by a group of . 21 Concordy writers led by Dave Fitzgerald, as the veracity of Dave's testimony was not challenged by the Forum. Instead, we seek to show that the ForlUil recognized that a problem exists and that some Forum members seem to have been trying to avoid the responsibility as this school's student government to in- vestigage the allegations made, to devise a fair resolution to this dispute and to ultimately ad- monish those guilty. Forum president Steve Benson should be commended for preventing the discussion of these allegations from degeneratj_ng into a free-for-all. However, Steve's handling of this situation was otherwise inconsistent with the respon- sibility of a student leader to actively pursue a matter as serious as allegations of elec- tion improprieties in any school organization, especially one as important as Concordy. After allowing Dave Fitzgerald to deliver part of a prepared statement outlining his group's grievances, Steve suddenly closed discussion. Let this be clearly understood-steve did not seek to stop Dave's address, but to end discussion of the subject altogher. In thereafter attempting to refer the matter to the Committee on Com- mittees (CoC), Steve ap- parently believed that Dave's address, albeit lengthy, was simply a litany of grievances and allegations against one of the Concordy editors. If Steve had exercised the self-restraint that good student leaders must sometimes have, he would have found (as he later did) that in concluding Dave had some very specific requests to make of the Forum. Granted, the Forum was not exactly the appropriate place to present detailed evidence of the charges made; yet when Steve cut off discussion, Dave had only one more page to read-the page on which he made his request for Forum intervention in this matter. Later in the meeting, while surprising lack of interest in the very serious accusations made by the Concordy group. The reaction of Sue Brand, CoC Chariman, was also somewhat disappointing. As CoC chai:rrnan, one would ex- pect that she would have been more than interested in actively investigating these charges. When Andy George endorsed Dave Fitzgerald's call for an investigation by. the CoC, Sue seemed extremely reluctant to lw ;'ve her col1\ll\iuttee. She, like many other Forum members, said that she prefered that the Concordiensis Editorial Board resolve this situation them- selves, and that Forum in- tervention, in the form of a CoC investigation and an order for new Forum-supervised elec- tions, would only set a bad precedent. However, Sue and those who agreed with her were avoiding recognition of the fact that an appeal for ForlUil in- tervention made by 21 Concordy members indicates a high degree of dissension and distrust in the ranks of the paper, that the matter at hand could only be resolved by the intervention of a higher authority. Instead of asking what kind of precedent Forum intervention would set, Sue and those who agreed with her should ask what is the message that they are sending to the students of Union College by failing to respond to these allegations in a resolute manner; can people cheat on this campus with impunity? The reluctance initially ex- pressed by various members of the Student Forum indicates that they were not aware of-or ignoring-the gravity of the charges made. Steve Benson seems either to have been trying to squelch public discussion of this matter or to have been insufficiently in- terested in the charges. Steve did not stop Dave Fitzgerald's speech because it was too long, in depth or inflammatory; if that had been the case, then he should have inunediately asked Dave what he wanted instead of turning the matter over to a conunittee, as he attempted to do. Sue Brand and others seemed to have wanted to avoid the unpleasant business of Forum intervention and in- vestigation. However, people in positions of responsibility must all too often perform unpleasarrt tasks. While the Forum ultimately approved a motion to authorize and supervise new Con- cordiensis elections, it did so without, it seems, a universal expression, by the members of the Forum, of concern, interest or a willingness to involve the ForlUil. In addition, action was only approved because of the active encouragement of a handful of Forum members and spectators. The Forum did not, however, clearly and unequivocally direct the CoC to investigate the allegations Continued on page 7 EditQrs-in .. Chief Marcy Burstiner, Gayle Rosenfeld News Editors Sarah Calderini, JudieSteinhardt Features Editors David Fitzgerald, Betsy Treitler Commentary Page Editor David Frantz Arts_ Editors Debbie Albert, Linda Raffaele Campus Page Editors Barbara Doyle, Jill Kaufman, Sports Editors Paul Kueker, Lynn O'Brien Associate Sports EditGrs Jay Grossman, Josh Greene Advertising Editors EllenSlipp, Heidi Rosen Associate Advertising Editors Debbie Rose, LaurenSobel Photo Editor· Dave Gruber Sports Photo Editors Pat .Merritt, Scott Press Subscription Editors Mitch Bernstein, Jim Campbell Assistant Subscriptions Editor West Rapoport ) ', • • L 0 < -----------------------tJ Andrew George was addressing the Forum about this matter, Staff: Jan Baran, Mickey Bradley, Valerie Bromberg~ Lori Cooper, Greg Fay, Kim .Hancock, Andy Hodgkin, Lance Humphrey, Emily Loose, Dave Marin, Joanne McAndrews, Peter Mohr, Amy Rosenkran~, Joy Runyon, Franklin Schneidert Mitchell Stein, ConradTatge, Janice Thompson, Mark Van Buren, Al White, Scott Wykoff, Maureen Coleman, Tod Dinnnick. Letters to the editor commentaries do and not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis. Steve began to leave the table without excusing himself. Many people present had no idea what Steve was trying to do until he mumbled something about having to leave. In addition, after getting up, Steve made an announcement which had air solutely nothing to do with the subject at hand. Not only ~d Steve UIUlecessarily interrupt Andy, but he seemed to display Photo Staff: Sarah Barth. CONOOflD\!ENSJS is publish,q e~ry 'l'hpr$day by the stU<tent _bo~y o!Umort 9ollegt\ Cam~gte lf~il~ $q~enectady. New York U308; PUblications; Office: Susquehanna Pu. .. ()tlS 1 Inc.~ Box 381J, Sidney, ~ew York 13838~ (601) :56~26. .. eted 111 th~ SchenectadY Post Office· as third class tnatter cevery three week$. SUbscriptibn rate~ $1~ per year, deliver.ed anywhere in, · · th~'trnltedStates. . C<>N4*DJlDmNSlS . subscribes . to the College Press Service (CPS} and utilizes the College News)l.m'~al:l: (CNS). . Olrtt!e ~1)h0tle~('518'}.37~l.~ · . ·-· ' ... ---- ., -·· ·-······· :,.,, .... --.'-. . .- ... ·. ,•.,

~major ~r. Until enjoyed vity but this · is my the able to to pus ~raid '85 lly ex- .of dicates of-or the ~ been public or to in- Steve long, if he of to a to avoid ~ss of in- in must ~asant ely Con- so of the was the of a not, and tions Forum ... made; such an investigation would insure the integrity of the Concordy leadership, as well as express Forwn resolution to resist efforts to undermine the democratic process on this campus. In short, the lukewarm response of many Forum members to this problem seems to be a very sad commentary on the quality of student leadership at this school. If comparably serious charges are ever again brouglit to the Ferwn's at- tention, let us hope that the Forum will act in a more CONCORDiENSIS, March 7, 1985 resolute manner, and not hesitate to teek the truth, undo injustices done (if any) and to expose the guilty. Signed, Phil Bean, '86 Alex Modica, '85 Young Republicans Club ·Formed To the Editor: Last Fall, many Union College students •united in a successful effort te re-elect President Ronald. Reagan and Vice President George Bush. The enthusiasm of the student body toward a conservative political group on campus was evident, and through the efforts of· New York Deputy Youth Coordinator Brian· Kelly, the· Young Republicans Club has been chartered. . The Club first gathered on February 13, 1985 to atify its bylaws and elect officers. Unanimously elected to the Board of Governors were President Brian Kelly, Vice President Mike Brice, Secretary ·Judi PhUipson, and Treasurer Joe Suhrada. Other members of the Board of Governors include Amy Rine, Anjoy Malhorta, and Greg Julian. Members in appointed positions include Executive Vic.e President Jim Wood, Executive Secretary Michele Isele,. Coordinator for public Liaison Eric Lipman, and Thomas R. Stevens, Esq., Chainnan of the Board of Advisors. The goals which the Union Young Republicans hope to achieve include providing an opportunity for the student body to voice their ideas, enhancing the college community's political awareness, and developing leadership quallties in those who are willing to challenge themselves as weB as .society. The Club plans to achieve these goals by publishing annual newsletters, submitting weekly articles to the Concordiensis, interviewing professors, and ·arranging for various key political figures to speak on behalf of the Club. The Union College Young RepUblicans Club is a charter member of the State-Wide Federation of New York Young Republican Clubs, Inc. Anyone interested in becoming a charter member of the UCYR Club should contact either Executive Vice President Jim Wood at 6487 or Executive Secretary Michele Isele at 6892. Remember, your future lies in your government. For \Only when the human spirtt is allowed to invent and create, only when individuals are given a personal stake in deciding their destiny and benefitting from the own risks, only then can societies remain dynamic, prosperous, progressive and free! The future of our nation will be determined, more than anything else, by the character •of her children., (Ronald 'Wilson Reagan, 1982). Michele Isele Brian Kelly All Right You Slobs To the Editor: As student workers at the West College dining facility, we'd like to pose a few questions to those who eat there: a) Do you ever say 'please' or 'thank you'? b) Are you one of those who play with the salt and pepper shakers? · c) Do you push your chair in when you've finished, or do you leave it in the middle of the aisle for all to trip over?., d) Do you deliberately leave a mess on, under, next to, or around your table? Smash food into the rug? · Leave trays, napkins and glasses everywhere? 3) Have you ever dripped .salad dressing across the entire salad bar? The list goes on and on. We'd just like to remind you that you are in college now (and so- called mature adults). It is not our job to clean up your un- necessary messes. Take an extra 10 seconds to check your area when you leave; save us, students and your peers, a lot of aggrevation. Your 10 seconds will save us hours. We work because we must, not because we want to ... think about that the next time you have the urge to pour your milk into your plate of lasagna or soak up your hot chocolate with your 42 napkins and half-eaten slice of bread. Possibly your neighbors, Probably your friends, A couple of student workers Women's Track Upset Over Coverage To the Editor: We are writing in reference to last week's track article. We are very disappointed with the attention, or lack thereof, given to the women's state meet. Our meet was much more significant than the RPI Invitational attended by the men. We therefore believe that we deserve more than a mere corner of the men's article. Furthermore, our relay· team set a school record by eight seconds. At the very least, that achievement and the names. of the women who set this record: Julie Halpbern, Michele Vuolo, Cindy Curtis, and Jenny Lee, should have been mentioned. It would also have been ap- propriate to mention their respective splits of 64.2, 64.5, 64.3, and 64.3. In addition, there were two errors in the information that was provided. Andrea Grief ran the 55 meter dash, not the hurdles. Also, Cindy Curtis, not Carmella Creech, clocked a 1:26.09 in the500 meter race. At least the article was clear about the important information, however, in pointing out that Amy Walsh had a virus. In short, we feel that women's track and women's sports' programs in general deserve a bit more detailed and ccurate attention. How can we expect our . programs to grow if they are treated in such a casual manner? We hope to receive a little more ·respect next time. Sincerely The Union College Varsity Women's Track Team Page7 LETTERS This is the last issue of Concordiensis for the term. Publication will resume Aprilll. Have a good spring break Paper Blues? (,./ ~W'~~ Enter the Center Old Chapel, second floor We would like to thank Sports lnforf!lation Director George Cuttita for his generous contributions to Concordkns~'Sports Pages Sincerely, Paul Kurker & Lynn O'Brien Sports Editors All letters to the editor . must be typed and submitted by 5:00 pm each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed, but names will be withheld upon request. Each Thursday at noon the Concordiensis is dropped off at Carnegie. PLEASE help carry a stack or two into Carnegie on your way in if possible. Thank you •. An Election for the 2 Positions of Editor:in-Chief Of Concordiensis will be held on Tuesday, March 12 in the Concordy office on the 4th floor of Carnegie Hall at 8 p.l\l. · · , All staff members who.· have contributed to two issues of the newspaper between Nov. 15 and Feb. 28 ar·e encouraged to come up a~d vote. No pr,xies! ~----------------------------------------------._~··~--.~·~-~----·--··-·-,~-·-------------------------'

major Until but this is my the to to us cerely, '85 ex- of ~ of-or the ~enson been public or to in- Steve ~raid's long, if he asked of to a to thers avoid of in- ple in must as ant ely Con- so ~rs of erest the was the of a not, and to ~ld ~n Forum ... made; such an investigation would insure the integrity of the Concordy leadership, as well as express Forum resolution to resist efforts to undermine the democratic process on this campus. In short, the lukewarm response of many Forum members to this problem seems to be a very sad comrne:ntary on the quality of student leadership at this school. If comparably serious charges are ever again brought to the Forwn's at- tention, let us hope that the Forum will act in a more CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1985 resolute manner, and not hesitate to teek the truth, undo injustices done (if any) and to expose the guilty. Signed, Phil Bean, '86 Alex Modica, '85 Young Republicans Club Formed To the Editor: Last Fall, many Union College students united in a successful effort to re-elect President Ronald Reagan and Vice President George Bush. The enthusiasm of the student body toward a conservative political group on campus was evident, and throtlgh the efforts of New York Deputy Youth Coordinator Brian Kelly, the Young Republicans Club has been chartered. The Club first gathered on February 13, 1985 to atify its bylaws and elect officers. Unanimously elected to the Board of Governors were President Brian Kelly, Vice President Mike Brice, Secretary Judi Phi.lipson, and Treasurer Joe Suhrada. ~her members of the Board of Governors include Amy Rine, Anjoy Malhorta, and Greg Julian. Members in appointed positions include Executive Vice President Jim Wood, Executive Secretary Michele Isele, Coordinator for public Liaison Eric Lipman, and Thomas R. Stevens, Esq., Chairman of the Board of Advisors. The goals which the Union Young Republicans hope to achieve include providing an opportunity for the student body to voice their ideas, enhancing the college community's political awareness, and developing leadership qaalities in those who are willing to challenge themselves as well as society. The Club plans to achieve these goals by publishing annual newsletters, submitting weekly articles to the Concordiensis, interviewing professors, and arranging for various key political figures to speak on behalf of the Club. The Union College Young Republicans Club is a charter member of the State-Wide Federation of New York Young Republican Clubs, Inc. Anyone interested in becoming a charter member of the UCYR Club should contact either Executive Vice President Jim Wood at 6487 or Executive Secretary Michele Isele at 6892. Remember, your future lies in your government. For \Only when. the human spmt IS allowed to invent aRd create, oRly when individuals are given a personal stake in dec_i~ng their destiny and benef1ttmg from the own risks, only then can societies remain dynamic, prosperous, progressive ~nd free! The future of our nation will be determined, more than anything else, by the character •of her children., (Ronald Wilson Reagan, 1982). Michele Isele Brian Kelly All Right You Slobs To the Editor: As student workers at the West College dining facility, we'd like to pose a few questions to those who eat there: a) Do you ever say 'please' or 'thank you 1 ? b) Are you one of those who play with the salt and pepper shakers? c) Do you push your chair in when you've finished, or do you leave it in the middle of the aisle for all to trip over? d) Do you deliberately leave a mess on, under, next to, or around your table? Smash food into the rug? Leave trays, napkins and glasses everywhere? 3) Have you ever dripped salad dressing across the entire salad bar? The list goes on and on. We'd just like to remind you that you are in college now (and so- called mature adults). It is not our job to clean up your un- necessary messes. Take an extra 10 seconds to check your area when you leave; save us, students and your peers, a lot of aggrevation. Your 10 seconds will save us hours. We work because we must, not because we want to ... think about that the next time you have the urge to pour your milk into your plate of lasagna or soak up your hot chocolate with your 42 napkins and half-eaten slice of bread. Possibly your neighbors, Probably your friends, A couple of student workers Women's Track Upset Over Coverage To the Editor: We are writing in reference to last week's track article. We are very disappointed with the attention, or lack thereof, given to the women's state meet. Our meet was much more significant than the RPI Invitational attended by the men. We therefore believe that we deserve more than a mere corner of the men's article. Furthermore, our relay team set a school record by eight seconds. At the very least, that achievement and the names. of the women who set this record: Julie Halpbern, Michele Vuolo, Cindy Curtis, and Jenny Lee, should have been mentioned. It would also have been ap- propriate to mention their respective splits of 64.2, 64.5, 64.3, and 64.3. In addition, there were two errors in the information that was provided. Andrea Grief ran the 55 meter dash, not the hurdles. Also, Cindy Curtis, not Carmella Creech, clocked a 1:26.09 in the 500 meter rare. At least the article was clear about the important information, however, in pointing out that Amy Walsh had a virus. In short, we feel that women's track and women's sports' programs in general deserve a bit more detailed and ccurate attention. How can we expect our programs to grow if they are treated in such a casual manner? We hope to receive a little more respect next time. Sincerely The Union College Varsity Women's Track Team Page7 LETTERS This is the last issue of Concordiensis for the term. Publication will resume Aprilll. Have a good spring break Paper Blues? (,./ ~tel~~ Enter the Center Old Chapel, second floor We would lil'e to thank Sports Information Director George Cuttita for his generous contributions to Concordiens~'Sports Pages Sincerely, Paul Kurker & Lynn O'Brien Sports Editors All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 5:00 pm each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed, but names will be withheld upon request. • > - '. • • • • • • • • • - ' .. ·~ ~~ ·' __ • Each Thursday at noon the Concordiensis is dropped off at Carnegie. PLEASE help carry a stack or two into Carnegie on your way in if possible. Thank you. An Election for the 2 Positions of Editor-in-Chief Of Concordiensis will be held on Tuesday, March 12 in the Concordy office on the 4th floor of Carnegie Hall at 8 p.m. All staff members who have contributed to two issues of the newspaper between Nov. 15 and Feb. 28 are encouraged to come up and vote. No proxies!

PageS CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1985 From Where I Stand by Wayne Josel Requiem to Winter Term The snow has melted, the snow has fallen. It's March in Schenectady. The ninth week is here, the end ofthe term is near. It's March in Schenectady Forget the homework that you blew, time to learn ten weeks in two. It's March in Schenectady. The Break, time to rest, hedonism at its best. It's March in Schenectady. Some count pennies to go away, looking for cheap flights and a place to stay. It's March in Schenectady. Others look to going home, lying in bed and lapsing into a coma. It's March in Schenectady. We dream of Apri4 soon to be here, mud in the fields, plenty of beer. It's March in Schenectady. My last column is done. a poet I have become. It's March in Schenectady. Adam Rosman, a Union student, is Union's representative to the Independent Student Coalition (I SCJ. This organization is based in Albany and represents private schools, as opposed to the SUNYs. Ths I SC's major goals are voter registration drives and increasing TAP, which is the New York State financial a.id program for private schools. On Tuesday of this week, the I sc had 300 students lobbying in Albany to urge the state legislative assembly to io· crease TAP. Union sent 30·40 students to the rally. Rosman believes· the lobbying was effective. Last year was the first year the ISC lobbied in Albany since the group's creation in 1974; it was also the first year that TAP was increased. The Women's Network and the Pro-Life Forum are planning to co- sponsor an Intellectual Cabaret Spring Term on the subject of abortion. Any student who would be interested in participating as part of either the Pro-Life panel or the Pro-Choice panel may contact Lynn, Box 897, or Sigrid, Box 1097. Concordiensis would like to bid farewell to the following retiring editors: Judie Steinhardt, Jill Kaufman, Paul Kurker, Lynn O'Brien, David Frantz, Marcy Burstiner and Gayle Rosenfeld. L-----·--------~-'- ____________ _J COMM.ENT·ARIES Saving the World By TONY BELL · There are several ways to save the world, or at least to react to the news that the world might need saving. Those of you who think the world doesn't need saving should read any of the many articles who's general theme is 'Why we must save the world', or even just go to another country where people are poor or angry or at war, and where Americans are regarded, not as people, but as either gods or devils. Those of you who don't care about the world might just like to read on anyway as there are one or two funny bits later on. OK, ways to save the world: THE FIRST APPROACH: We can do something about economics. This is a very popular approach. Economics is like a great machine-a great train hurtling forward. At the front of the train are assorted politicians and experts. People sitting further back like to console themselves with the delusion that the people at the front are driving the train, when in fact the only .difference is that they can see a little further. And noone knows what's round the next bend. Economics, this great machine, has systematically created ghettos, started wars, poisoned the air and the earth, and made a lot of Americans very rich, which is why they don't care what else it does. At Christmas I was in Mexico, a-country which has benefitted from Economics somewhat·less than has this country. There are three things I will remember about Mexico even more than all the ancient pyramids and the 'hermosas Mexicanas', and they are:- (1) The air in Mexico City, which gave me both an allergy and left me feeling dizzy even after a week of ac- customisation. And I was lucky. If you're a canary in a .cage, you're rendered unconscious after 3 hours. (2) A large dried up lake in Mexico City, filled to the brim with garbage, where a whole subculture of Indians subsisted on recycling the excrement of Economics. (3) San Juanito. A few weeks before I got there, a gas com- pany exploded, wiping out several large slums. Two thousand peopl~ were killed, but the government, who were still trying to pretend that Economics is good for Mexico, said it was only 500. Economics, in case you're wondering what this evil, monstrous thing is, is a systemised, abstacted way of buying and selling. A long time ago, it used to be fairly har- mless as the worst that could happen was that somebody got ripped off over a pig or a bushel of wheat, and occasionally there was fighting and maybe somebody died. But now, the things that are doing the buying and selling aren'·t people but huge, abstract things ca]led businesses. Whereas people had morals (sometimes), businesses never have them. 'lbeir only function is to make money. People go to college and learn about Economics, not so they can help make the world better, but so they can help the businesses make money. Crimes untold are collliilitted by the busfuesses, but n(H)ne can ever tell what the crimes were or who to blame. This is because the only people who know what the crimes are are the economists and they work for the businesses, and the only people who might be to blame the businesses are the lawyers, and most of them work for the businesses too. Those that don't, don't make so much money, and by this society's standards; that makes them failures, and who's ever going to listen to a failure? Oh, just one more thing-if the businesses ever do get into trouble, there's always the insurance companies. . Conclusion: we should do something about Economics. THE SECOND APPROACH: we can all become en- vironmentalists. .Environme- ntalists really care about the world, but mostly they're too sentimental to be of any use. They have the 3 major characteristics of a religion: Firstly, elitism. They think they're better than everyone else because they've rejected Western materialism. They may be right, but that doesn't really help us. Secondly, lack of thought. Environmentalists usually prefer to sit in groups and cultivate good feeling with the aid of the smoke from a plant which is the second biggest money-spinner in the nation (after corn). This is harmless and fun, but again, it doesn't save the world. Thirdly, nobody takes them seriously. However, some en- vironmentalists are useful, and they are called egotists. THE THIRD APPROACH: We can all ·~come egotists. ~gotiSts care about the world because they want to be seen to have saved society. This is why egotists are so valuable to society and should be cherished and encouraged to keep them going. ~Ac~e. ':J\1\\ ~u~~ ~\)\li\1 RU\.a$, ~\S ~U~\.\C. &C.\iOOI. ~1uca~1 m ~~w '\'r\ORQ\\~~~Y f>eARC~a~. ~~\~- VQJ.Mt),,, THE FOURTH APPROACH: We can put all the knowledge learnt by.economists and social scientists into a big compUter. Hide the computer in a big mountain wit.h a couple of men of integrity (ot robots} and press \RUN\. The computer will then run thP- world. It will do this by su~tl~.,r releasing information to key people at key times so that they are encouraged to do key things that will make the world better. This is called \gentle proddding in the right direc- tion\ and is a lot more effective than \frantic running in all directions\ which is what we have now. In this way, we can redistribute wealth throughout the world; develop technology that will solve the energy crisis and pollution problems, and stop the population explosion. The thing. is that some .people know how to do these things already but nobody ever believes them unless they can make money from them. That is why it has to be a computer, and nobody must ever know about this computer. But I feel safe in telling you about it because I know you don't belieye me. THE FIFTH APPROACH: we can hope for a spiritual revolution. In this solution, everyone suddenly (on the evolutionary scale) gets a lot better and cares more about his fellow man. The quickest route to a spiritual revolution would be if all television sets spon- taneously combusted. THE SIXTH APPROACH: we can wait for an act of God or Evolution. (1) Evolution. It looks like natural selection has failed us. Those who are wasteful and harmful to the species thrive while those who are harmless suffer. (2) God. We can believe that Jesus is coming back. This is actually a very good solution because if he does come back then it will be the end of the world anyway and we won't have to save it anymore; and if he doesn't come back, then it's pis fault if we destroy the world as he said he would come back and he didn't. THE SEVENTH AP- PROACH: We can force everyone to read Doris Lessing books. Not many people believe this. In fact, I'm the only one who thinks this. But since I usually find that I'm right and everyone else is wrong, this is probably the right thing to do. Bell is a member of the Student Environmentalist Alliance. ~ ~~ologe-Pr_ .... _-_ ...... ·_· __________ \\\\' ____ \\\\

PageS From Where I Stand by Wayne Josel Requiem to Winter Term The snow has melted, the snow has_ja/len. It's March in Schenectady. The ninth week is here, the end of the term is near. It's March in Schenectady Forget the homework that you blew, time·to learn ten weeks in two. It's March in Schenectady. The Break, time to rest, hedonism at its best. It's March in Schenectady. Some count pennies to go away, looking for cheap flights and a place to stay. It's March in Schenectady. Others look to going home, lying in bed and lapsing into a coma. It's March in Schenectady. We dream of Apri~ soo11 to be here, mud in the fields, plenty ofbeer. It's March in Schenectady. My last column is done. a poet I have become. It's March in Schenectady. '· Adam Rosman, a Union student, is Union's representative to the Independent Student Coalition (ISC). This organization is based in Albany and represents private schools, as opposed to the SUNYs. Ths ISC's major goals are voter registration drives and increasing TAP, which is the New York State financial aid program for private schools. On Tuesday of this week, the ISC had 300 students lobbying in Albany to urge the state legislative assembly to io- . crease TAP. Union sent30-4Q students to the rally. Rosman believes the lobbying was effective. Last year was the firs-t year the ISC . lobbied in Albany since the group's creation in 1974; it was also flie first year tha.f T A Pwas increased. The Women's Network· and the Pro-Life Forum are planning to co- sponsor an Intellectual Cabaret Spring Term on the subject of abortion. Any student who would be interested in participating as part of either the Pro-Life panel or the Pro-Choice panel may contact Lynn, Box 897, or Sigrid, Box 1097. . Concordiensis would like to bid farewell to the following retiring editors: Judie Steinhardt, Jill Kaufman, Paul Kurker, Lynn O'Brien, David Frantz, Marcy Burstiner and Gayle Rosenfeld. CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1985 . . COMM.ENT-ARIES Saving the World By TONY BELL · There are several ways to save the world, or at least to react to the news that the world . might need saving. Those of you who think the world doesn't need saving should read any of the m.any articles who's general theme is 'Why we must save the world', or even just go to another country where people are .poor or angry or at war, and where Americans are regarded, not as people, but as either gods or devils. Tho~e of you who don't care about the world might just like to read on anyway as there are one or two funny bits later on. OK,. ways to save the world: THEFIRSTAPPROACH: We. can do something about economics. This is a very .popular approach. Economics is like a great machine-a great train hurtling forward. At the front of the train are assorted politicians and experts. People sitting further back like tQ console themselves with the delusion. that the people a:t the front are driving the train, when in fact the only difference is that they can see ·a little further. And noone knows · what's round the next bend. Economics, this g.reat machine, . has systematically created ghettos, started wars, poisoned the air and the earth, and made a lot of Americans very rich, which is why they don't care what else it does. At Christmas I was in Mexico, a~country which has benefitted from Ecc;momics somewhat-less than hasthis country. There are three things I will remember about Mexico even more than all the ancient pyramids and the 'hermosas Mexicanas', and they are:- (1) The air in Mexico City, which gave me both an allergy and left me feeling dizzy even after a week of ac- customisation. And I was lucky. If you're a canary in a .cage, you're rendered unconscious after 3 hours. (2) A large dried up lake in Mexico City, filled to the brim with garbage, where a whole subculture of Indians subsisted on recycling the excrement of Economics. (3) San Juanito. A few weeks before I got there, a gas com- pany exploded, wiping out several large slums. Two thousand people were killed, but the government, who were still trying to pretend that Economics is good for Mexico, said it was only 500. Economics, in case you're wondering what this evil, monstrous thing is, is a systemised, abstacted way of buying and selling. A long time · ago, it used to be fairly bar- mless as the worst that could happen was that somebody got .ripped off over a pig or a bushel of wheat, and occasionally there was . fighting and maybe somebody died. But now, the things that are doing the buying and selling aren't people ,but huge, abstract things ca}led businesses. Whereas people had morals (sometimes), businesses .never have them. Their only function is to make money. People go to college and learn ·about Economics, not so they can help make the world better, but so they can help the businesses make money. Crimes untold are committed by the businesses, but no-one can ever tell what the crinies were or wh.o to blame. This is because the only people who know what the crimes are are the economists and they work for the businesses, and the only people who might be to blame the businesses are the lawyers, and :rr1ost of them work for the businesses too. Those that don't, don't make so much money, and by this society's standards; that makes them failures, and who's ever going to listen to a failure? Oh, just one more thing~if the businesses ever do get into trouble, there's always the insurance companies. , Conclusion: we should do something about Economics. THE SECOND\ APPROACH: we- can aU become en- vironmentalists. · Environme• ntalists really care about the world, but mostly they're too sentimental to be of any use. They have the 3. major characteristics of a religion: Firstly, elitism. They think they're better than everyone else because they've rejected Western materialism. They may be right, but that doesn't really help us. Secondly, lack of thought. Environmentalists usually prefer to sit in groups and cultivate good feeling with the aid of the ·smoke from a plant which is the second biggest money-spinner in the nation · (after corn). This is harmless and fun, but again, it doesn't save the world. Thirdly, nqbody takes them Seriously. However, some en~ vironmentalists are useful, and they are called egotists . THE THIRD APPROACH: We can aU ·become egotists. .f!jgOtiSts care about the world because they want to he seen to have saved society. This is why egotists are so valuable to society and should be cherished and encouraged to keep them going. {!liA.C~e. · 'lA\'ti\ ~u~a C.oui.i RU\.a~, -w,\S 9UWC. &C.\oot. SiU~~'T ¥AS ~e.~ ~ua~\:t seARCRae. t\o\%\ttQ 'fl~ ~t)m, tHE FOURTH APPROACll: We can put all the knowledge learnt by,economists and social scientists into .a big. computer. Hide the computer- Ui a big mountain with. a couple of men of integrity (iu·.robots,t and press. \RUN\. The computer will then run thP. world. It will do this by su~U~J releasing information to key people at key times so that they are encouraged to do key things that will make the world better. This is called \gentle proddding ifi the right direc- tion'' and is a lot more effective than \frantic running in aU directions\ which is what we have now. In this way, we can redistribute. wealth throughout th~ world, . develop technology th&t will solVe the energy crisis and pollution problems, and stop the population explosion. The thing is that some people know how. to do these things already but nobOdy ever believes them unless they can make money from them. That is why it has to .be a .computer,. and nobody must ever know about this computer. But I feel safe in telling you about it because I know you don't belieye me. THE FIFTH APPROACH: we can hope for a spiritual revolutioh. In this solution, ever_yone suddenly (on the evolutionary scale) gets a lot better and. cares more about his fellow man. The quickest route to a spiritual revolution would be if all television sets spon- taneously combusted. . . THE SIXTH APPROACH: we · can wait for an act of God or Evolution. (1) Evolution. It looks like natural selection has £ailed us. T)1ose who are wasteful and harmful to the species 'thrive while those who are harmless suffer. (2) God. We can believe that Jesus is coming back. This is actually a very goOd solution because if he does come back then it will be the end of the wol\ld anyway and we won't have to save it anymore; and if he doesn't come back, then it's his fault if we destroy the world as he said he woUld come back and he didn't. THE SEVENTH AP- PROACH: We can force everyone to read Doris Lessing books. Not niany people believe this. In fact, I'm · the only one who thinks this. But since I usually find that I'm right and everyone else is wrong, this is probably the right thing to do. Bell is ·a member of the Student Environmentalist Alli~ce. li 5 h a L ~ il li p J I I 1 j 1 I J ~ I I I ~ ( I J ~ t ( F E 1 J l F s J J ~

big by key all we ~pie I we lot or ss is . ~k if 's ~k d e t · Are you psyched fora good . h. ('Y • ' t1me t 1s ·~prtng .. ... Auditions for ·Spring Term CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1985 VIA VENETO CAFE A new bar a~ the Appian Way Invites You To Page9 UNION COLLEGE NIGHT Tonight from 9-2 ·a.m. Specials Include *rigatoni bolognese $3.50 *individual, homemade Pizzas w/unique toppings- .. $1.75 WOODY ALLEN COMEDY Aud it'ions wi II be held first week spring term Apr. 2, 3, 4 * mixed drinks--$1.00 *and more! This Friday: LADIES NIGHT Special: Mixed Drinks $1.00 Domestic Beer 50(: . 1841 Van Vranken THINK· SPRING THINK PARENTS' WEEKEND MAYlO, 11 & 12 ATnENTION ALL STUDENTS INTERESTED IN . HEALTH RELATED FIELDS Information regarding summer internships in health related fields is available in the Pre-Health Library, Room 1 01 , Bailey Hall. Students who are interested should visit the library weekdays from l p.m. to 3 p.m. Congra(ulations . to the new Gates men for 1985!! Jeff Berkowitz '88 Suzanne Beitel '86 Jay Cohen '87 Billy Cooper ,87 Robert Crandall '87 Tracey Doubrava '87 Adam Falk '87 Ted Glasser '86 David Gulliver '88 Jeff Hirschman '88 Marjorie Hoffer '88 LeAta Jackson '88 Kelly Larkin '87 Robin Leigh '88 Sara Levin '86 Olivia Listzwan '87 Richard Marcus '87 Joanne McAndrews '88 Meredith McCarty '87 Katherine McLaughlin '86 Charles Moore '87 Reza Mozayeni '87 Eric Scardina '86 Trisha Schuster '87 . Jennifer Scully '88 Lory Sheehan '88 Rachel Siegel '87 Stephanie Stein '86 Jennifer Thompson '86 Jonathan Vehar '88 Mark Webster '88 Now Open Sundays 1 p.rn.-9 p.m. *Special Sunday Dinners: Homecooked Italian S~ecialties Empire is now offering some of the lowest fares in its history. - Some airlines give you a low fare, and then they get fhe discount back by charging you for carrying your baggage and for a drink inflight, even if it's just a cup of coffee or a soaa. At Empire, we've got low fares and you still get the frills. Empire provides you with full service which includes free inflight cocktails, beverages and snacks, and free baggage check-in and transfers. Plus, we offer convenient departure times, convenient connections to other airlines, easy access reservations lines, free car rental reservations, and as· signed seating. There isn't just one airline out there offering low fares. Call Empire. Our Pricing Department works full time to insure ~hat our fares are comp~titive with the other airlines or lower. For reservations and information call your Travel Agent or Empire Airlines at 1-800-962-5665 in New York State or 1-800-448-4104 elsewhere in the U.S. Empire gives you more fOr your low fares Serving 21 cities in the Northeast and Canada. Albany Baltimore Binghamton Boston Buffalo Burlington Cleveland Detroit Elmira Hartford Islip Ithaca Kennedy LaGuardia Montreal Newark Ottawa Rochester Syracuse Utica Washington White Plains • Prices and restrictions vary according to flight. schedule. For further information and reservations, call your Travel Agent or Empire Airlines at 1-800-962-5665 in New York State or 1-800-448-4104 elsewhere in the U.S . .•... , .... ~. __________ __;_ ________________________________ ..J

~s· I big ~en by to all we :~ut sis pie an ~is nd in ~ I Ne ~d ~k 't e t ·Are you psyched fora good time this Spring? . •. Auditions for ·Spring Term ... CONCORDIEN$/S, M4rch 7, 1985 VIA VENETO CAFE A new bar a~ the Appia:n Way 1 nvites You To Page9 UNION COLLEGE NIGHT Tonight from 9-2 a.m. Specials Include *riga toni bolognese $3.50 * individual, homemade ·Pizzas w/unique toppings--$1.75 WOODY ALLEN COMED¥ Auditions V)lill :be held first week spring term Apr~·2,3, 4 * mixeddrinks--$1.00 *and more! This Friday: LADIES NIGHT Special: Mixed Drinks $1.00 Domestic Beer soc:: . 1841 Van Vranken THINK· SPRING THINK PARENTS' WEEKEND MAY 10, 11 & 12 A mENTION AU STUDENTS INTERESTED IN . HEALTH RELATED FIELDS Information regarding summer int~rnships in health related fields is available in the Pre-Health Library, RQom 1 0 1 , Bailey Hall. Students who are interested should visit the . library weekdays fro_m 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. Congratulations·· to the new Gatesmen for1985!! Jeff Berkowitz '88 Suzanne Beitei '86 Jay Cohen '87 Billy Cooper ,87 Robert Crandall '87 Tracey Doubrava '87 Adam Falk '87 Ted Glasser '86 David Gulliver '88 Jeff Hirschman '88 Marjorie Hoffer '88 LeAta Jackson '88 . · Kelly L\arkin '87 . Robin Leigh '88 . Sara Levin '86 Olivia Listzwan '87 Richard Marcus ·~7 Joanne McAndrews '88 · Meredith McCarty '87 Katherine McLaughlin . '86 Charles Moore '87 Reza Mozayeni '87 · Eric Scardina '86 Trisha Schuster '87 Jennifer Scully '88 · Lory Sheehan '88 Rachel Siegel '87 . Stephanie Stein '86 Jennifer Thompson ;86 Jonathan Vehat '88 Mark Webster '88 · Now Open Sundays 1 p.m.-9 p.m. *Special Sunday D:inners: Homecooked Italian S~ecialties Empire is now offering some of the lowest fares in its history. - Some airlines give you a low fare, and then they get fhe discount back by charging you for carrying your baggage and fcir a drink inflight, even if it's just a cup of coffee or a soaa .. At Empire, we've got low fares and you still get fhe frills. Empire provides yo~ with full s_ervice which includes free . mfhght cocktails, bevetages and snacks, and free baggage check-in and transfers. Plus, we offer convenient departure times, convenient connections -to other airlil).es, easy access reservations lines, free car rental reservations, and as- signed seating. There isn't just one airline out there offering low fares. Cali Empire. Our Pricing Department works full time to insure .that our fates ate comp~titive with the other airlines or lower. · For reservations and information call your Travel A_gent or Empire Airlines at l-'800-962-5665 m New York State or 1·800-448-4104 elsewhere in the U.S. Empire gives you more fOr your low fares Serving 21 cities in the Northeast and Canada. Alb~ny Baltimore Binghamton Boston Buffalo Burlington Cleveland Detroit Elmira Hartford Islip Ithaca Kennedy LaGuardia Montreal Newark Otlawa Rochester Syracuse Utica Washington White Plains ·'

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1985 CAREER NEWS Internships & Fellowships (information available at the Career Development Center) WOBK has four internships for students who have com- pleted at least two years of college. News Internship: Intern will participate in writing, covering stories., and daily routines. Intern must have a car and work morning hours. . Promotion, Sales-Marketing: Intern will learn the skills in .public relations and sales- marketing by working everyday with research and other responsibilities. WOBK·AM Program; Intern will have many responsibilities such as scheduling guests for talk shows, updating promotion sheets, organizing archieves, and general office work. WOBK FM-AM Program: Intern will be involved in tabulating a weekly retail record sales report and devising a list of music selections among other things. Anyone interested in these internships should contact Greta Berkson directly at 462-5555. The New York State Department of Social Services offers surnrner internships for minority students. The intern will be involved in paraprofessional duties in social services. The program runs for 12 weeks. Application deadline: April 1, 1985. State Bank of Albany Sum- mer Intern Program is for students who have finished their junior year of college snd are interested in a banking career. Minority students are en- couraged to apply. Application deadline: March 31, 1985. New York State Assembly Summer Intern Program in Albany, NY. Up to 20 in- ternships are available for college students who have completed their junior year and are New York residents. Students will gain knowledge in the workings of state govern- ment and the legislative process. The program runs from June 17-August 23, 1985. Application deadline: April 1, 1985. New Jersey Bell is seeking engineering, math, CS, Physics and Industrial Economics majors for paid summer positions in management and technical areas. The Education Department of the South Street Seaport Museum offers internships to students with a background in American History, Architec- ture, Education or related fields. Internships begin June 4 and extend through Labor Day. Application deadline: April 15, 1985. The National Trust for Historic Preservation is of- fering internships to students interested in the Museum field. Past interns· have worked as research Assistants, Actress, Curatorial Research Assistant, Historic Site Maintenance Technician, Historic House Museum Manager, and Special Exhibit Research Assistant. Application deadline: March 31, 1985. The Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Smithsonian Institution's National Musewn of Deisgn offers 10-week summer fellowships to students in- terested in the .fields of design, the decorative arts, exhibition development, library services, or museum education. Volunteer internships are also available. Application deadline: Aprill, 1985. Washington County Mental Health Services, Inc. offers graduate internships working with psychiatrically disabled adults in central Vermont. This is a one-year program with a Bachelor's degree required. Alfred University offers a graduate assistant ship for students interested in a Master of Science in Education. Financial assistance will defray the cost through a Resident Director position which provides meals, housing, tuition and $3600. The Department of Biology at the State University of New York College at Fredonia ·has openings for Graduate Teaching Assistantships. The three areas of study are molecular-cell, ecology or physiology. Council for Opportunity in Graduate Management Education (COGME) offers fellowships to AfrO-Ameri<:ans, American Indians, Asian- Americans, and Hispanic Americans interested in the field of Management. Application deadline: April 15, 1985. Peabody College at Van- derbilt University offers a scholarship program designed to recognize minority students with academic achievement. IBM-National Marketing has rescheduled it's oncampus recruiting date for Tuesday, April 2, 1985. They are looking for students with majors in ME, CE, EE, CS, MT or majors with a strong technical backgroWld ( eg, 4 or 5 courses in the above areas) ie. MN, IE for marketing positions. First-come, first- served signups will be at the Career Development Center 8:00 a.m.-5·:00 p.m., Wed- nesday, March 13, 1985. Los Angeles County Depart- ment of Public Works has postponed their on campus recruiting date (Friday, March 8). First Investors has rescheduled its information session for Wednesday, AprillO Win a Free Bestseller on Careers in the First Career Development Center Newsleffer Contest one lucky student will receive the winning copy of the April \Career Development News.'' somewhere in the text of the winning newsletter will be the words: · · \Congratulations! You have won a copy of-!\ To claim your prize, bring your winning newsletter to the CDC for verification. l • . . at 4:00 p.m. in Conference Room A, Carnegie Hall. They will be interviewing interested students on Thursday, Aprilll at the CDC. For more in· fonnation, .contact the Career Development Center. PRIZES The Department of English invites the submission of entries in the following writing com- petitions. The deadline for submission is Monday, March 18. The Allen Essay Prize: awarded to seniors in any department for non-fiction essays. The writing may be a chapter from a thesis, a revised term paper, an essay written specifically for submission, etc. No limits of length are specified, but custom suggests a lower limit of 6-8 pages, and an upper limit of perhaps 30. The Van Orden Prize: for freshmen (in any department) excelling in English com- position. The Yudis Prize : for the student in any class who has produced the best piece of prose fiction. The Department also supervises and judges entries for the Academy of American Poets Prize, awarded annually for the best poem by a .Union undergraduate. Each prize entry should be labeled with a pseudonym on both the paper and an attached sealed envelope; inside the envelope should be the student's real name and address. All of this should be placed in a large manila envelope marked with the name of the competition for which it is being submitted. The envelope should be delivered to the Department office in Humanities 212, no later than Monday, March 18. Any questions about these com- petitions should be directed to Professor Frazier in the Humanities Building (telephone ' 6214). CLUB NEWS The OUting Club is selling tickets for an ADK sponsored hour long slide show, \The Last Days of Shangri-La\ featuring the Chinese Himalayas. ShoWing on March 12 at 8:00 p.m. at the South Colonie High School. Tickets are $2.00. Contact Ben Barde, x6761 for details. Newman Folk Group- Sunday evenings at 6:30 p.m. All singers and musicians meet with Friar Paul to prepare for the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members welcome. Prayer-Scripture Study Groups~ Monday, March 11 at 5 p.m. and Wednesday, March · 13th at 11:30 a.m. with Sr. Joan in Religious Programs Office. Newman Meeting-Will resume Aprillst at 8 p.m. in 4th floor Lounge, Carnegie. Tutorial Program-Any Union student interested in tutoring Reading one hour a week primarily to 2nd graders of St. John the Evangelist School please contact Liz Karazim, 370-677 4. Confirmation-Any Union students who has not been confinned and wishes to receive the ~Sacrament May 18th at St. John's please contact Sr. Joan who will arrange classes during the Spring. term to fit student schedules. 370-6087. Five · students have expressed an interest to date. Theatre Party-Friday, March 8th, anyone interested in attending Dracula at Proctor's meet Sr. Joan in front of Car- negie at 7:15. We will pick up half-price tickets for $9, 7.75 or 5.50. Sunday Social-March lOth following the 7:30 Mass there wUl be a social in the Rectory for the UniQn communitv. FELLOWSHIPS General Electric Foundation Graduate Fellowship A General Electric Foun- dation Graduate Fellowship will be awarded to a graduating senior for the first year of graduate work directed ·toward a PhD in Engineering or Computer Science. The fellowship will provide tuition and fees at a U.S. university as well as a subsistence allowance. The precise amount of the fellowship will be based upon the costs and policies of the university and department chosen by the recipient. Preference will be given to a student who is interested in pursuing an academic career. Any students who are in- terested in the fellowship should contact Professors Aubrey (ME), Chang (EE), Hannay (CS), or Scaife (CH) to indicate their graduate school in- ' tentions. SPEAKERS. Vermont poet John Engels will read from his work at Union College Thursday, March 7, sponsored 'by the English Department. Engels will lec- ture on contemporary poetry at 3:30 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge, Hwnanities Center and will read his poems at 8 p.m. in the Hale House Lower Lounge. CLASSJFJE])S Student typing don~Please contact 37~5222. Mt. Pleasant area. Typing done for students or professors. Please contact 370- 0692. Niskayuna area. Typing-Term Papers, Thesis for $1.00 a page. Marilou-382-5668 after 6:00. Golf Clubs.:_Lefthanded, Spalding registered, alum. shafts, 1-3-4 woods, 2-9 irons. Asking $125. Call 374-8605 evenings. 370-6293 .days. Ask for Sue. For the third consecutive year, CMP Publications, Inc., a publisher of business newspapers and magazines, is conducting an Internship Awards Program. The 1985 program is open to freshman, sophomore; junior and senior year students in- terested in publishing and journalism. The contest has been expanded to include four year colleges and universities in New York State which offer students majors in English or journalism. Students participating in the CMP Internship Awards contest will be competing for a limited mnnber of 13-week paid in- ternship positions and cash prizes totaling $2500. First prize is $1000. For further information about the Internship Awards Program, call CMP's Public Relations Department at (516) 365-4600, or write to: Public Relations Department, Internship Awards Program, CMP Publications, Inc., 600 Conununity Drive, Manhasset, NY 11030. Off Center Theatre, a highly acclaimed professional acting company, will accept 10 interns to work in its street theatre program this summer. Interns will produce a Located on corner of Broadway & Hamilton Streets 382-7956 . ·,•· .' . S·tudenf Discounts · *Haircut Special March 6-13 • $12.00 *Wax'ing Specia·l Full Leg •$17.00 with Bikini • $20.00 * Sebastian Cellophanes ~ $15.00 * we carry a full line of Nexus Sebastian h~ircare products. 25% retail with student JD.

Engels Union 7, English will lee- poetry at and 8 p.m. in a ~Please Pleasant or 370- page. 6:00. handed, alum. irons. 374-8605 Ask for Inc., a is open to junior ents in- and has four ~s_ities in ~h offer glish or in the contest limited in- d cash ~st prize about Public (516) Public lC~, 600 highly acting interns theatre uce a f and ZS% :off comedy show about social issues which will tour N.Y. C. They will also help to write it. They will work side-by-side with professionals. Interns will also study the following areas: Juggling, Scene Study, Dance, Script Writing, Theatre Craft and Producing. ' ·The course is 10 weeks, June 3, 1985 to August 9, 1985. The cost is $1,000.00-scholarships are available. Admission is by interview or audition. Room and board in N.Y.C. is available. Write: Off Center Theatre, Inc., 436 West 18th Street, New York, NY 10011 or phone 212-929- 8299 for further information. HELP WANTED Light housewark: One af- ternoon a week. Walking distance from campus. Please call 37 4-0447 evenings. The Office of Computer Services · is seeking student employees for the summer. Applications should be sub- mitted to the Personnel Dept., Silliman Hall by March 8, 1985. Positions will be available in five categories: Student Programmer, Student Con- sultant, Student Technician, Student Operator and Student Assistant. Employment will be between June 17 and September 6. Positions are for 40 hours per week at $5.00 per hour. A description of duties can be obtained from the Personnel Dept. Evenings and weekends 2 or 3 students interested in retail sales-waiting on customers, stocking and loading duties. Please contact Sherwin- Williams, Schenectady, N.Y. at 374-4406. ~- --- ~ The Film Committee presents on 3-8 - 3-10 \Racing With the· Moon\ at 7, 9, 11. $1 in SS016. PERSONALS LRSBAGJKASNLRS-So how's everyone feeling this term? Get psyched for a fun and healthy spring! Love,KJ Jill: Don't be a dodo DUNKIN; say BYE-BYE!!!! Do Teddybears need passports, hmm, I wonder? ! ! •••••••••• There will be a meeting of USOCA to discuss an in- formation program on Nicaragua for the spring term. We welcome student help in planning this event. · Thursday March 7 at 4:00p.m. in Pub The ECO MAJOR West 221: After 20 wks. of PEANUTS music, COORDINATING Comforters, cliff diving from the bunk, music-playing walls VD gifts, \Nanc are you gettu1 up.?'' andOURMISSIONS AND I'm still LOOKING FORWARD to the SEQUEL NEXT YEAR! MAD The A's and the J's: It's been REAL and it's been NICE, but it AIN'T been-Alright, I'll admit it--IT HAS BEEN REAL NICE! ! ! ! Take care ..... MAD Randi-Hope you had a happy birthday. Remember it's only the middle of the week! Love, Lisa The VERMONT Maiden: Rejoice! The FRESHMAN MISTAKE is right around THE CORNER, but beware of taking that corner too FAST or YOU might run into a little, red STOP SIGN!!!! The MAD Hungarian: A PARAGUAYAN Dinner or a Puppy Chow Candlelight Special with SYD! Remember to STRIDEX first! ! ! ! Kenny's Little Girl: It's good to know that there are people like YOU to come back to if BILL boots me!!! Drew Tannenbaum, Ah yoo in bed now, why don't you slip your clothes off. Slurp!!! Muffy Ziac, You are cordially invited the .kappa smegma dance party. Free punch, free beer, free rootbeer. Munchies! Munches! Munchies!!! · Having problems with preregistration? Do not give to The Annual Fund! To the Skating Dutchmen- Congratulations on a great regular season .. Two in a row is pretty impressive! You've brought Union hockey a long way. Good Luck in your future ventures! ! -JK & JB Dear Amy, Nancy & Jill-No more pencils, no more books, ... time for a seminar in tanning- CONGRATULATIONS. Love, Karen, Sue, Anne, Lydia, Risa Loser Jones: It's either one or the other. ·Not both! Lincoln or the LECKVAR!!!! H£Y f'/,\Ar.J- OoN!.r You HAUE ANY Nbfl • .tl\.fl£. INTf.I(.E.STS LII<.E FOo\tEALL? ~' •••• •~• ........... ~ ~ > ,a.o;...· ~....:.....------.:~ CONCORDIENS/S, March 7r 1985 Page 11 Darling Deranged DM: First toast, then waffles, but the Amaretto and orange juices made the best combination! Never and.always, Clarice Depression Party cancelled due to case of acute happiness. Wanted: 4;0 Any Volunteers, Roomie? In lieu of your im- minent death, I'll settle for two, old down pHlows!! ! ! Then again, we could have a water fight!!!! CLARISSA-Thinking of you .... B All's fair in love and war. W&W andH&H Sarge Stan says, ''Do it to the Registrar before he does it to you!\ · Sarge Phil would have said, \Dwight be careful out there!\ To Alyssa, Jackie, Craig, Regan, Linda, Jeff, and the rest of the Conspirators--Thanks. You did what needed to be done. -P. The story of E-man, chapter 2... And when he got to that party, he noticed he'd forgotten something-his girlfriend. But, he behaved himself anyway, so there isn't much of a story. Or is there? Venice-! clear my nose at you, you silly keniggits, and your mother was a hamster and your . father smelled of elder- berries -Austira Clarice-\wafflization\ post- poned. I like you better Uie way you are. But how hast thou cast such an enchantment? Hoping the spell doesn't wear off, the smiling DM. ZB Terminators: Congratultions ... you lost. PNG Phi Neat Guys-This makes four consecutive years of literally owning the WRUC Trivia Contest. Yau're am-a-a- azing. A loyal supporter Little Sister pledges: Get psyched for tonight. Beware . however, rumor has it that your pledge period might be as difficult as Joel's. WENCH: March 19th, huh? Will that fall on the loth day of his cycle? Oooh-this could be a big one (or maybe a small one, in his case). DA-DA! Brooke's Bros. and Daddy's credit cards aren't 1;1 good combo for Stuart Odell, aye, Stuey'! To JB at SC: I hope you're saving your pennies ..... 2nd Floor North: It's 12 p.m., a Saturday night, and-ohno! It's the hundred and two dan- cing fools! Ohnii.god! The Belle of St. Mark Princess Di, Well, it's the last week of the term again and I'm flat out of · cards ... .! hope you won't take it too personally. By the way, \hi\ S. Myles Nancy and Sara: Good Luck on your Bermuda Bash! Don't do anything we wouldn't ... and if you are going to pass out, at least ditch the popcorn, K? The Park Place Gang Dearest Never Mind (1-30? )- Shakespeare said, \gather ye rosebuds while ye may\ but I don't think he meant in the chill of winter. One wonders what \applications\ you intend to use .... Nadie Who's writing personals to MY girl? Somebody gonna get a BOM·Bush-KA. The Stud Cat Cheeks--Good luck with the \new\ car. Soon the snow will melt and you can drive it again. -Trap Clapping Pig: I have a proposition for you. If you finish your thesis this term, you'll bake so long and hard in Jersey that you just might die. -AtallBro Card No. 364758.4576 Don't get me wrong .. .I never really liked any of you anyway? Here's the rule: 1. Fun!!!! 2. The Turf-no more than 6 at one time! 3. Ass showers required either before or after No. 2. 4. Jesse! Na-na-na JEROME! YES!! 5. No hotdogs or drinking allowed before breakfast! 6. Glass doors are to be OPENED-not BOUNCED OFF!! 7. HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! . We had a great time-hope that you all did too! Love, The Tighface, Pul\e & Drink ? Puke some more, and, of course, the Stomach. Anything bothering you? Make yourself heard! Write a leHer to the editor The Arts Department is conducting a third year evaluation for Martin Beniamin and is soliciting the views of the Campus Community with regard to Professor Beniamin' s teaching, scholarly activity and college service. Please reply to Hugh Allen Wilson as soon as possible. 1-tfLLO! t'\'( NAI\\£ I 'S 'tr\At:~PEUS DIG ITH·EAD. :t ESIIMI\TE. Jt.lp,T YOU ARE- MY LA3 PI\K't\NER5! 7 1 f\t'\ AN EtJGII\II\f.IZ! I EIJ:TOY IT IMI'IEJJS!>LY! 1 PflRIIc.u!,ARLY E~JoY (.ALCU£.ATIN<7 (Wf.RAGE... ME.f\N DEVIA'i'lotJ S! \ f1ouJ I St'LENDID •• \ 1: fll\' Qv !If- f)(G.\TED 11\SOlfT -ni\S L.A?.>! LJE. Will 6\'- cotJ~uc.TING A. RE:.IJf.RSE. NEG,.ATIVE: lr-J!'UT clSGILLI\TING SIN£ WI\VE. OP£RA1iNG AI\'P- t..lflt:R. -tiJ,.DUc..ToR! I

... Q) ..0 ::l ... l') '\0 > rtl 0 >- ..0 0 +- 0 .!: a. Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, March 7,1985 THE ARTS leno leaves 'Em Laughing By JOY RUNYON Staff Finally, a good comedian comes to Union. And it's about time! Jay Leno appeared at Memorial Chapel on Tuesday, February 26. The ad- vertisements posted around campus touted Leno as one of the most talented comedians around today. Well ... Yes, Leno was funny, but he certainly isn't one of the fun- niest comedians in existence . His jokes were fine, but the humor sometimes got obliterated by his rapid speech; some members of the audience complained that they couldn't understand what he was saying because he spoke so rapidly . However, the blame cannot be placed totally on the performer; one must realize that Memorial Comedian Jay Leno performed last Tuesday night at Memorial . Chapel wasn't exactly built to Chapel. accommodate the acoustics of \The Breakfast Club\ opens • ., • Film Gets Mixed Review By LINDA RAFFAELE Arts Editor At first glance, The Breakfast Club looks like another one of those high school sex, drugs, and rock-and-roll flicks that frequent our movie theatres all too often these days. You know the type. The Animal House clones like Losin' It and Spring Break that beg attention from the 16-and-under crowd. For- tunately, The Breakfast Club proves itself superior to these other meaningless films. The story has a lot of potential. Unfortunately, due to problems in the script, most of that potential is not unlocked. The Breakfast Club is a good movie, but it could have been a lot better. The story is set in a high school outside of Chicago, lllinois, and reveals the events that take place one Saturday afternoon as five seniors meet in the school's library to serve an 8-hour detention. Their assignment is to write an essay on who they think they are. The fihn brings together an unlikely cast of characters. They can be described as \a princess\ (Molly Ringwald), \an athlete\ (Emilio Estavez), \a criminal\ (Judd Nelson), \a brain\ (Anthony Michael Hall), and \a basket case\ (Ally Sheedy). The point that the film tries to make is that although they are all so different, in a lot of unseen ways, they are also the same. It is in an attempt to make this point that the film runs into trouble. It is well cast, and thankfully, the characters are not stereotyped. The problems are in the script. This is a perfect set-up-five seemingly different teenagers in a room together; all that needs to be done is to show the audience that they are all the same in- side. This film has so many oossibilities. It could really soar--but it doesn't. The question is \why?\ First of all, the film tries to strike a delicate balance bet- ween comedy and drama that does not quite hit the mark. In one scene, all five students are sitting around on the floor of the library, and Estavez's character, Andy, \the athlete\ explains why he had to serve this Saturday detention. He. tearfully confesses that he taped another student's buns together in the locker room. Now, I thinkthat is pretty funny. I expected maybe a little more on the subject, and then a switch to something else. Instead, Estavez goes on about the trauma he went through when he realized how humiliated this kid must have felt when he had to tell his father that his buns had been taped together in the locker room. I can understand that the film is trying to show Estavez's compassion here, but the scene would have worked better with more serious undertones. Scenes are Short A second problem with the film is that some potentially good scenes are cut short. For example, it is obvious through subtleties in the story, that Claire, \the princess,\ and John, \the criminal,\ really do like each other, despite their fighting. The viewer is hoping that they will get together. When they finally do, near the end of the film, the scene lasts about ten seconds. Talk about a short climax. Finally, I don't feel that Ally Sheedy's character, Allison (\the basket case\) was developed enough. Sheedy is a good actress. She has proven her versatility in past films, but her portrayal of Allison in The Breakfast Club is probably her best performance to date. Yet, her character is not developed to the extent that the viewer can say that he really understands her by the end of the film. At one point Allison empties her purse on the couch for the other students to see all of the odd items inside, sadly lamenting about her home life, but she never goes into detail about what is wrong. Despite the flaws in this film, it is enjoyable to watch. The subject matter is interesting, and most of the acting is very good. Judd Nelson as John Bender, \the criminal,\ does a particularly good job of showing the audience the different sides of his character. Anthony Michael Hall (you might remember him as Chevy Chase's son ill Vacation) also turns in a good performance as Brian, \the brain.\ He is witty, innocent, and very refreshing. In addition, Molly Ringwald is well cast as Claire, \the prin- cess.\ There are also some very good scenes in the movie. One especially good one involves all five sitting together, again on the library floor, feeling very close because they have been able to share their secrets with each other. Brian wonders aloud what things will be like on Monday when they are back in their normal routines at school. Will they still be friends? Or will social barriers stand between them because they belong to different cliques? They all agree that ideally, they will still remain close, but realistically, they will no longer be friends. They have come together for an afternoon, but when they leave, they will all go their separate ways. The film makes a good point here, namely that social rules sometimes make us do things that go against what would otherwise come naturally. Overall, The Breakfast Club is a rather good film. It has a lot going for it; the acting and story matter both merit attention. Don't misunderstand the negative comments in this review. I'm not trying to say that The Breakfast Club is a bad movie. It's just that given the subject matter and talent available it could have been better. To all student activity chairmen: All boxes for Concordiensis must be typed! If you wish to run an ad for more than one w-k, pleaM cut the ad out of the paper and tape It to a sheet of PCIIM'. When changes are made to an ad that was previously run, the ad must be retyplcl as well comedians as much as the acoustics of a bellowing choir or a pipe organ. But if Leno had . spoken more slowly, it would have helped. The material itself was usually amusing, sometimes even quite funny. Leno covered many topics, such as the mechanical hearts on today's medical scene (Sony will be the first to produce a portable heart unit, called the ''Sony Heart-Man - out of batteries, out of luck\) horror movies (of course, the girl being chased by the monster runs desperately to the nearest shelter where she can sit down - \preferably a graveyard\) and the TV Guide Magazine (whiCh is now being called \reading material-·j ust like Reagan counts ketchup as a vegetable in the school lunch programs\). This material shows so much originality that it's funnier than one thinks it is. Who else but a comedian would walk around aU day thinking about things like this? It's funny when someone tells us something we never though of by ourselves, but then they show us just how truthfur it is. Leno is a comedian who wants to establish good rapport with his audience. He took interest in the responses to his questions. Also, when a comedian is able to establish rapport with the audience, he needs to be able to improvise quickly. Leno did it; there weren't any audience responses that really threw him off--his mind was always working to prevent that from happening. Audience Enjoyed Rapport The audience seemed to enjov. the rapport, also: a good thing because a comedian will turn viciously on an audience that hassles him. The audience interacted with Leno in humorous little exchanges. He was interested in their responses, which isn't all that surprising: Most of his material was based on observations of human . quirks that really are funny if one thinks about them. His act, although literally a \routine is somewhat tailored to each audience for whom he perf0rms. For example, he commented on the background \scenery\ in the Chapel ·. •.J.t the tacky, red, lattice-work panels in back of him look like the doors on Monty Hall's \Let's Make a Deal.\ (They really are not exquisite works of art by any stretch of the imagination.) Leno gets in- volved in his audience and his surroundings. Leno has attained a fair amount of fame for his efforts and sense of humor. It started in grade school when the teacher caught him \in the act\ and asked rhetorically if he'd like to come up and do it for the whole class; so he did. Since then, he's appeared on Johnny Carson's \Tonight Show\ and \Late Night with David Letterman.\ That's a fair amount of recognition, right? Supposedly, the next step to stardom would be a bigger show circuit, like some dates in Las Vegas. But that's not Leno's style; that's Buddy Hackett's style. Fresh and Original Leno is new and fresh and original. It's doubtful that he would be either happy or suc- cessful on that circuit. His humor seems to be aimed at the 18- to 35-year old audience. So look for Leno to. be playing good small clubs in New York City, colleges and universities, and off~beat (yet major) television shows like Carson and Let- terman (maybe even \Saturday Night Live\). This Week At The Rock and Roll Pizza Pub Special Prices on Garlic Bread!! Half: $.75 Full:$1.70 This Week's Special: Buy 2 slices, Get 1 small soda FREE!! Open Auditions COURT GESTURES I mprovisationa I Comedy Troupe Thursday (Tonight) March 7, 1985 8:00p.m. • Stage·ll Be There, Or Be Pyramidal

He that erial of are a he he like of the in- his fair ~din and to he's on's of like But and he His the So Cabaret features two great acts .... Singers Shine By JANICE C. THOMPSON Staff There have been many Cabaret shows this semester, offering a variety of talents. Of aU of these, last Thursday's performance was one of the best. Both acts consisted .of solo artists who have excellent, well trained voices. The entire audience applauded loudly to all the songs because it recognized quality, not merely because the singers had friends out there. Leslie Shamilzadeh opened the show, accompanied on piano by Diane Pavacic. Dressed casually in a black jumpsuit and not showing any signs of nervousness, Leslie put her listeners comfortably at ease. She sang songs by Carole King, Bm·bra Streisand and selections from the movie \Fame\ with an incredibly strong, controlled voice. A sign of a good accompanist is the ability to follow the singer easily, rather than becoming lost as the tempo changes, and Diane did this very well. It was obvious that the two girls rehearsed together in preparation for their per- formance, and the result was a brilliant act. David Tolge, the jovial· \Mystery M.C.\ seemed equally at home on the stage as he entertained us with a few humorous stories. After that, Jim Havard continued to delight the audience, which had high expectations after listening to Leslie and Diane. A casual, laid-back performer with a quiet, unassuming manner, he kep t.he shaw going until 1:30 a.m. without making anyone-bored. He chose mellow classic tunes by James Taylor and the Eagles, and improvised on the standard ac- companiment on both guitar and piano. His voice was clear and secure as he sang each selection. · The audience responded to him enthusiastically by singing along to his music. One of the reasons that people go to Cabaret is for the close feeling of community that this kind of group participation inspires, which is broken, unfortunately, when one or two people decide to sing louder than the per- former. Both Leslie and Jimshould be highly commended for com- bining to give a star per- formance. It is this kind of talent that keeps Cabaret alive, and hopefully the two will continue to perform for the Union College community. CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1985 Page 13 THE ARTS 11; Bl JliA- Jim Havard displayed his musical talent aHast Thursday night's Cabaret. \She ;s the Boss\ Reviewed . . a Stones' Jagger Goes Solo By MICKEY BRADLEY Staff It's a real shame that many critics got off the Rolling Stone's bandwagon when they switched from their \60's sound\ to their \70's sound.\ The music was still good, but for those to whom \Satisfaction\ and \Paint it Black\ recalled some of their fondest acid ex- periences, stuff like \Emotional Rescue\ \She's So Cold\ \Miss You\ (God forbid, the Stones doing disco) just didn't cut It. Despite this, the band. was as popular as ever-hailed by many, including themselves, as The Greatest Rock-and-Roll . Band in the World-and enjoyed incredible commercial success right through 1981's Tattoo You. Their last LP, though, Undercover, was a disap- pointment sales-wise (would you believe they consider two million copies a disap- pointment?) as the group stretched into a new sound-80's style urban roc~. Despite two successful singles, and some rave reviews, Undercover alienated a lot of fans who had stuck with the group for two dacades, and proved to many that the Stones, at last, were rolling downhill. duds, but some are less suc- cessful than others. \Lonely at the Top\ \Running Out of Luck\ \Lucky in Love\ are · merely cool and clever, but what they lack in lyric or musical direction, they make up for in Jagger's unique vocal stylings. Indeed, the 41-year-old singer is in strong voice throughout the album, and his zany, hyperbolic approach to the problematic title track (a wicked role-reversal of \Under My Thumb\) keeps it fun and interesting, especially at the end. My only other real com- plaint is that some of the songs are a little too long, especially on side two where the shortest track is five minutes long. ... Ql .c :;) ... 0 ~ > ro 0 >- .c ~ 0 t:: Q. Seven Brides at Proctor's Into this skepticism, comes She's The Boss, Mick Jagger's first solo record in his long career, a album that is not likely to change the opinions of those who mourn the loss of their great group. But again, the music is fine, fast, and contemporary, and any com- plaints can probably be restricted to those who have had Exile On Main Street glued to their turntable for the past 13 years and refuse to acknowledge that today's FM radio is good for anything but the weather, oldies, and Dr. Ruth. Jagger, on the other hand, knows that it is no longer hip to be a hippie; if, 1n 1973, he left Angie because \with no loving in our souls and no money in our coats, you can't say we're satisfied,\ in ~985 his lover leaves him because \I gave her laughter, she wanted diamonds.\ Talk about a Material Girl! If nothing else, the man must be given credit for still having his finger on the pulse of the contemporary American social heartbeat. Nevertheless, the album is well-above average. \Just Another Night\ is a fine car radio single and certainly as impulsive and interesting as anything on the charts these days. \Half a Loaf\ is a kind of upbeat, updated \Angie\ ( \Weve got half a life, half a dream ... \) and \Hard Woman\ the album's only ballad, is heartfelt and moving, even if Jagger is trying to impersonate Lionel Richie. By TQD DIMMICK Staff The next time you want to get married, try kidnapping the woman you love. So Adam (William Howe l, Oregon woodsman of the 1850's, advised his brothers in Seven Brides for Seven Brothers. What could be better? Anything at all, says · Milly (Lani Chenille), after six kidnapped, hysterical young women appear on her doorstep. As an example of the country family's complete ignorance of' the laws of \go in' court in,\ kidnapping was about typical. After all, they were seven brothers who had been livtng for years without going to town. Imagine the dismay of Adam's new wife, Milly, when she discovers that these are the people she is to live with ... and cook for, and sew for, and clean for. With the fortitude borne of nineteenth century marriage conditions, Milly takes on these tasks with determination, although with something less than enthusiasm. Her plan: to civilize Adam's six brothers and make them irrestible to the girls of the village; a task about as easy as making fraternity brothers drink milk on Saturday night. Adam's brothers had to face the appalling prospect of meeting girls and, groan, dancing. But as Milly said, she had all winter to do it! Spring ' comes, and the tmlikely socialites hike to the Church Social, the event of the season. The brothers, with six carefully rehearsed ways to say \May I have this dance?\ moved in en masse. While the girls love the attention, the in-town suitors don't like it a bit. What ensues is a hilarious and incredibly ac- tive dancing and skills com- petition. With 25 people twirling across the stage, even the audience was left breathless, all in fear of a collision, not from exertion. Then, predictably, someone gets tripped and the whole affair ends with a fight between the 'suitors and the brothers. Back at home, while gingerly patching cuts and bruises, the brothers realize that they are in love. But winter is coming, and soon the cabin will be cut off from the village. Feeling desperate, the brothers are convinced by Adam to do the most direct action; simply to go and take the girls. People generally don't appreciate being kidnapped, even if they are in love with the kidnappers! Thus once the women are ac- tually up at the cabin, Milly takes charge, and the men suddenly find themselves sleeping in the barn, all winter long. So much for their plan. In spite of this situation, by the time spring comes, the women don't want to leave. Yet Adam, Thursday Night, March 14, 1985 BUD WElSER NIGHT at the Rathskeller All Union College students presenting College I. D. at the door will be eligible for door prizes realizing after four months that it was wrong to kidnap the women in the first place, insists on taking them back. The brothers, carrying the struggling women back to town, are accosted by the villagers out for revenge. Suddenly, everyone is chasing everyone else, as the characters work their way back to the village and the end of the performance. The plot for Seven Brides for Seven Brothers is an active one, with each new twist causing song, dance and laughter. William Howe, who played Lancelot when Camelot was here last year, has a great voice and good acting ability that makes the most of the action provided by the plot. Perhaps his most notable solo was during his Winter isolation with the song \We Gotta Make It Through The Winter.'' The words touch real life con- ceptions, with such soulful lyrics as \A Man Has Got to Stand Alone or He Is Not a Man.\ The voice and strength of Iani Chenille carried much of the performance. Among the brothers, the two with discer- nible traits were Gideon (Billy Burke), the youngest, for his courage and sensitive per- ception of others' feelings, and Frank (Mike Carruthers) for his slapstick and irrestible humor. The cast is filled with talented dancers and acrobats. Any encounter is sure to produce excitement, Seven Brides for Seven Brothers is _part of a valuable genre. A musical that does not claim to convey deep meaning or earth-shattering truth, it is simply a performance to make one smile or maybe even laugh. In .a world Where television weeklies are about broken lives, the cinema acts out phony violence and the 6 p.m. news shows us the real violence, laughter becomes something worth paying for. As a break from studying, remember that the classic show Dracula will be at Proctor's this Friday night. The most Immediately striking thing about the new album is its sound. The players Jagger assembled to help him out (Jeff Beck, Pete Town- shend, Jan Hammer, Herbie Hancock, Nile Rogers, and many others) are strong and punchy in all the right places and give this record its un- mistakable 80's sound. Though they may not have the warmth or familiarity of the rebular Stones line-up, the songs are styled more toward aggressive fueling than comfortable ac- companiment. None of the tunes here are All in all, the record works and makes a strong statement for venerable rockers in the modern music scene; namely, that you're as old as you feel, and judging from She's The Boss, Jagger feels about 21. Well, maybe 31, but hey, that's not bad. And if you miss the timelessness of a ''Street Fighting Man\ \.The Last Time\ or even a \Tumbling Dice\ your best consolation will be the Stones' back catalog at vour favorite record store. the social conditions that spawned those tunes simply don't exist anymore, and the mere fact that Jagger (and friends) are still around to make aggressive, progressive rock is a triumph of sorts; it proves that time is still on their side. Jagger himself refuses to sit still for too long. As he im- plores on \Just Another Night\: \Just because you've seen my face, Just because you know my name, I'm a stranger in this town, Can't I have my ups and downs?, Can't you see that I'm human?\ During the first part of Spring Term, the Career Development Center will be selecting students to work as Career Assistants for the 1985-86 academic year. These paid, paraprofessional positions will require strong leadership abilities and interpersonal skills. Selected students will learn to facilitate career exploration workshops and conduct outreach programs for clubs and residence halls. They will also do career research and work with students and faculty to develop new programs. Application forms will be available in the Career Development Center and the Student Activities Office during the fi.rst week of April. Watch for announcements of ah information meeting to be held soon after you return from break

Page 14 This Weekend At Proctor's Thursday 1 March 7 Big Band Cavalcade '85 8p.m. • Tickets are: $14,$121$8.50 Friday, March 8 Dracula 8 p.m • Tickets are: $18,$15.501 $11 Saturday I March 9 Rotterdam Philharmonic 8 p.m. • Tickets are: $161$13.501$9.50 Don't forget to get Proctor's Student Discount. Tickets are 112 price for students 1 hour before the show, depending on availability. FOUR s E A s 0 N s CHINESE RESTAURANT Phone: 393-5440 393-5441 Hours: Sun-Thu 11:30-10 Fri-Sat 11:30-11 Closed Mondays Take Out or Eat In Specialize in Cantonese, Szechuan & Hunan We prepare our foods with just a little bit of luck and a whole lot of experience We're in walking distance 10% Student Discount for Take Out Orders Only W/Sfudent I D 183 Nott Terrace Across from Holiday 1 nn CONCORDIENSIS, March 7, 1985 Your Bahamas College Week Includes: ';. Round-trip air transportation from your home city to Bahamas • 7 Nights accommodation in Freeport (Freeport Inn-casual club like hotel located downtown, next to El Casino and opposite to International Bazaar)orNassal!.l (Dolphin or Atlantis Hotel-ideally located across the streetfrom the beach within walking distance to everything). Price based on quad occupancy. Triple add-$50.00 Double add $100.00 • Roundtrip airport/hotel transfers • Hotel room tax • Gratuities for bellman, chambermaids: an9 poolman • College Week activities-sports, parties, music, fun. Hotel Options - Nassau-Add $25.00 for deluxe Cable Beach Inn, add $60~00 for deluxe Pilot House Hotel Freeport-Add $50.00for first class Windward Palms Hotel. SPACE FILLING UP FAST·- BOOK NOW!!!!! . --------------------------- f . I.~~~·~· 212-355-4705/800-223..()694 (reservations only) ..,. ~ Bahamas College Weeks INfER · n 8:!~==~ g~~'t,:~ 1§==~~ 2 ~ HOliDAYS INC. 0 fl\w09-\'- 16 0 Apr20-Apr27 0 J&me·01-June·Oa 501 MadisonAYenue 0 1'1\w J6-Mw23 0 Apr27-May04 0 JW11e08-Jurie 15 New York, NY 10022 '0 1'\ar 23-Mm 30 0 May 04-May 11 0 June 15-Jame'22 C~·One: 0 1'1\w 30--Apr 6 0 /llay 11--l'llay 18 D FREEPORT 0 NASSIIU Ocalponcy (Sat. departu\'\) (Sat. depo~) 0 Qul>d D Triple 0 DoublE D Sounds good; I've checked lhc week I wont lo·l*'tJ and etiCiooed • $ 100 deposit. D Send Brochui'e I I I I I I I I I ~~~------------~----~~==~~------------ I I ~~~~~res=---------------~----------------~ I I ADDRESS DEPARTURE CITY I • CrT'! STATE llP PHNO I 1 • AU prk:q plull5% tu and ...,Ices. !Cilmpus Rep/Oifoce . I ~ Pric<! bMed on deportu..,. I rom New Veri< 6 &!~ton. (Add $20 from I Baklmore and· $40 from Philadelphia). I E8ch traveler must fill out sep.\'~e loon. . .•... ,.1···---------·--·-·······-il 0 - lfJ ). </1 (lJ ... '- ::J 0 u ' 0 - vi ). </1 ~ '- ::; 0 u ( c il t: a il 5 'I d ~ p g, c f< 61 B tl t< lE B c p r4 B w l:l D r4 P' g; fr fr 9! h; D D 01 tt

••• I I I I I I I I ~ 5 2 I I I I I I I I . ~ 0 - 1/J >- \' I!> +- '- ::> 0 u 0 - vi >- 1/l ~ '- ::> 0 u CONCORDIENSIS, Marcil 7, 1985 PagelS SPORTS ScottWykoH Athlete of the Week Twenty-four hours later at Achilles rink, coach Morrison's Skating Dutchmen handed Elmira a 3-2 setback, sending them into the ECAC division II west semifinals at Plattsburgh. Leading the Dutchmen with goals were Tom Braddell, Jamie Knight, and Gill Egan. Co-captains Knight and Egan scored in the first minute .of the third period to seal the victory . The Garnet defense was out- standing once again, allowing enly 21 shots on goaltender WayBe McDougall. The victory was McDougall's 15th of the year, just two Wins short of former NHLer Steve Baker's single season mark of 17. Congratulations to the Skating Dutchmen for their post-season success and fer being named, along with the basketball team, as this week's \Athletes of the Week.\ On Sports By PAUL KUitKER Sports Staff With so many outstanding individual performances in- cluding: Chris Lacy's first place finish in the pole vault at the Union Invy., Andy Crossley's smashing of three Union swimming records and qualifying for the national meet, Kevin Bartlett's 29 points in the hoopmen's ECAC victory over Binghamton, Jim Mann's victory in the 3000 meter walk, and Gill Egan's dramatic· winning goal in ti?-e . Skating Dutchmen's exciting 3-2 victory over Elmira; this week's Athlete of the Week choice seemed impossible. Never- theless, I would like to honor the Varsity Basketbali and H:eckey teams as co-winners of the Week's '~Athletes of the Week.\ Coach Scanlon's varsity hoopers bombarded fourth seeded Binghamton (79-t34) in order to advance to the ECAC semifinals against four-year defending chamption Hamilton. The Dutchmen were paced by Kevin Bartlett and Ken D'Orazio who scored 29 and 22 points respectively. Freshman point guard Tom Beck also had a fine game as he scored 13 points and handed out four assists. Overall, the victory was an outstanding team effort as well as the Dutchmen's fourth cansecutive win. Good luck to the Dutchmen in their· cham- pionship quest. 1984-85 Varsity Roster No. N•mt Yr. Pow. Ht. Wt. Homatown 1 Wayne McDougall' Jr. G 6'0 180 Guelph, Ontario 4 Duane Joyce• So, AD 6'2 195 Pembroke, MA 5 Michael Forhan Fr. LW 6'3 205 Newmarket, Ontario 6 T.J: Ryan• Sr, AD 5'8 170 Lynn, MA 7 Gavrn Morton • So, AD 5'9 175 Chalk River, Ontario 9 Nelson Said Fr, C 5'10 170 Nepean, Ontario 10 Bill Wernecke' Sr. C 5'8 165 Eagan, MN H Gill Egan• Sr. LW 5'7 170 Nepean, Ontario 14 Tom Hodgins• Jr. FIW 6'1 200 Ottawa, Ontario 15 Scott Richardson• Jr. AD 5'9 170 Cedar Grove, NJ 16 Dave Appleby' So. AD 5'9 175 Nepean, Ontario 17 John MacKenzie' Jr. AD 5'10 180 Nepean, Ontario 18 Scott Cyr Fr. C 5'6 145 Amesbury, MA 19 Gary Temush Fr. C 5'10 175 <Pickering, Ontario 21 Jamie Knight' Sr. LW 6'0 17.5 Worcester, MA 22 David Weiss• Jr. LD 5'10 HO Bernardston, MA 23 Sean Wills • Sr. LW 6'2 194 Bloomfield Hills, Ml 24 Curt Cole' Jr_ AW 5'11 180 Wexford, PA 25 Steve MacGIIIIvary Sr. C 5'8 170 London, Ontario 27 Todd Flanigan• Jr. 0/W 6'0 190 Troy, NY 29 Tlrn Flanigan Jr. G 5'11 176 Troy, NY 30 Toby O'Brien Fr. G 6'0 160 E. Sandwich, MA Clptalna: Jamie Knight and Gill Egan *Indicates returning letterwlnner from 1983-84 team (15). 1984-85 Union College Varsity Basketball Roste.r Year :Pos. Hgt. Wgt. Hometown High School ,Fr. G 5'10 160 Brockport, NY Brockport So. G 6'1 180 Ardsley, NY Ardsley Jr. G 5'11 170 Huntington, NY St. Anthony's So. G 6'1 160 Nunda, NY Keshequa Fr. G 5'11 160 Fair Haven, VT MI. St. Joseph Fr, G 6'2 170 Sherrill, NY Vernon-Verona So. F 6'4 195 Syracuse, NY Corcoran Sr. F 6'4 185 Lake Grove, NY Sachem Fr. c 6'5 192 Fairport, NY Fairport Sr. F 6'6 185 W. Babylon, NY W. BabyJon Sr. c 6'5 215 Mamaroneck, NY Albertus Magnus So, G 6'1 185 Nesconset, NY Smithtown East So. F 6'4 195 Acton, MA Acton Boxboro So. F 6'6 220 West Chester, PA Bethel No. Name 10 Tom Beck 11 Ken Levine 12 Jack Barry 13 Time Diemoz 15 Rob Parente 22 Steve DeBalso 23 Rich Bartosch 24 Jim Doherty 31 Kurt Fox 32 Kevm Bartlett 33 Ken D'Orazio 44 Neil Winawer 50 Tim Goleman . 51 Mrke Miller Head Coach: Bill Scanlon Assistant: Bob Montana Kevin Bartlett, Jim Doherty, Ken D'Orazio Manager: Mark Van Buren Tri-Captalns: Hoops • • • Continued from page 16 Since this wili be the last time this reporter punches out a column for this publication, he'll take the opportunity to laok back ill retrospect over four very eventful years on the Dutchman sports scene. A period in which a small upstate New York college has made a name for itself across the United States. The fall of '81 was when the renaissance found its begin- nings. A hard nosed Dutchman football coach by the name of Joe Wirth had directed a garnet pigskin team to a single victory season the prior year. The taste was not pleasing and a large class of incoming freslunen were part of a plan to turn the Schenectady school's football fortunes around. The Johnson's and Stewart's began to emerge . and the successful campaign was only a start. Move over architect Wirth, step in one AI Bagnoli. When the leaves blew off the trees and the wind swept over the campus a year later the final book read eight wins against a lone defeat. The soil had been tilled and after an off season of speculation they returned to the turf in '83 to enjoy what would become the most memorable sports season in thecollege's long history, and the nation's second longest winning streak .. A bid to the post-season party. The final stop was to be the National Championships. Though the guys from Augustana way were on top at the final gun the Dutchmen had travelled the full spectrum in a mere three years. This year the squad enjoyed as much or even more success as the national finals' team and was only kept away from another trip to Kings Island due to that dreaded Augie group. The winning tone set by Union's football team has carried over into every realm of Dutchman athletics. Bob Magee's hooters have emerged over the past two years as one of the nation's top soccer teams. Like the football team, Union's soccer squad is considered to be a force to be reckoned with in any team's attempt to win an NCAA title. A handful of seniors hard work and dedication matched with the talent of the large group of talented un- derclassmen have brought clock. At this time, Union went into a stall offense to P!'eserve their lead. This strategy paid off as the Dutchmen immediately increased their advantage to 63~ 55 on four straight free throws. The Colonials whittled this deficit back to four points, 63-59 with 2 : 38 remaining to be played. Kevin Bartlett squelched this rally as he converted three consecutive foul shots, putting Union ahead 66-59 with 2: 03 showing. Tom Beck then proceeded to score the next five points of the game to give the Dutchmen a n-59 lead, and to finally end Binghamton's hopes 'of a comeback. Union kept its playoff title hopes alive with a revengeful 79-64 victory. Kevin B~rtlett paced the Dutchmen With 29 points and 6 rebounds. He was followed by Ken D'Orazio with 22 points. and 13 reboWlds, and Tom Beck with 13 points and 4 assists. For the game, Union shot 53 percent from the field and 85 percent from. the foul line (23 for 27- 9ncluding 17 for 18 in the second half). playoffs. They . played at Hamilton Wednesday night, and a Union victory means that they will play the finals at Union vs. the winner of the Fredonia- Rochester ga!Jle.... Ken D'Orazio moved into fourth place on the career scoring list (1,276 pts.) and Kevin Bartlett moved into sixth place on the same list (1,128 pts.) during the Binghamton game last Friday night .... Bartlett is just 15 points shy of scoring 500 pts. this season, and should surpass the half-century mark against Hamilton .... As of Wednesday's game vs. Hamilton, D'Orazio found himself only 35 rebounds short of first place on the all- time rebounding list. D'Orazio has 780 career rebounds as compared to 815 recorded by Toby Lustig (1961-1964) .... Bartlett (18.7 ppg.-6.7 rpg.} and D'Orazio (17.9 ppg.-10.8 rpg.) will be counted on to lead the Dutchmen through the rest of the playoffs.... The team has been playing well together recently and will need this cohesiveness in order to survive for the · remainder of the playoffs .... Currently Union is riding a four-game winning streak and the Dutchmen have won 12 of their last 16 games. Swimmers Fare Well Dutchmen Notes ........ The Dutchmen, with their victory over Binghamton, moved into the semi-finals of the ECAC By JOHN WHALEN Sports Staff The Union College men's swim team finished their season with the state meet held at the University of Rochester last weekend from Thursday to Saturday. Eight swimmers competeq. in the meet, with good performances turned in by all, with most of the swirnrners attaining their best times of the year. Union's score of 168 placed them thirte~nth in the meet, beating both Utica and Hartwick. Notable events in- . eluded the 400 yard medley relay. team, composed of Andy Crossley, Brian Chabot, Jeff Nolan, and Chris Sawcquck; the 400 free-style relay (A): Crossley, Nolan, Sawchuck and John Whalen, and (B): Captain Mike Fox, relay Mike Millet, Larry Schachter, and Chabot; and the enthusiastic 800 free relay team: Fox, Millet, Sawchuck, and Whalen. In. addition, Jeff Nolan came within 0.1 seconds of the school record in the 50 butterfly. Chabot now claims the school record in the 50 breast stroke. Crossley broke the school records in the 50 free, the 100 back stroke, and in the 50 back with a time of 25.49 seconds which placed him second in the ' state meet and earned a place in the national competition to be held in Atlanta in two weeks . The swim team is graduating only two seniors, John Whalen and Captain Mike Fox,. so should remain strong next year. This year marks the last season the.swim teams will have in the Foote Pool in Alumni Gym. - ~ l'.- .. . - Union soccer to where it stands today. Bill Scanlon's Dutchmen basketball team has also been a study in excellence in recent time. Two out of the last three years the Union roundballers have earned spots in post- season play. '\1:any a grey haked basketball coach will relish the day when the tandem of Bartlett and D'Orazio pick up their diplomas in the Spring. Union track and field waned in ob- scurity until the arrival on the scene four years ago of Russ Ebbets. Through his dedication and drive, cross country and track have become popular and successful sports at UnioH. The women have also played a role in the sports resurgence. Marty Morrison left a very successful field hockey team two years back to nuture women's soccer through its first two campaigns as a varsity sport Lynne Barta's volleyball squad has also emerged as a true threat. Let's not forget to ring the bell for the women who swing the sticks in the fall or cradle the hall in the spring. And how about a women's tennis team that has sat at the top with the state's best on a number of occasions. The most satisfying Dut- chmen sports story over the past four years for this reporter has to be the 360 degree tur- naround of the Union hockey program in the last two years. Eight years of frustration came to an end a year ago as Charlie Morrison's skaters proved they could win. In earlier years the Skating Dutchmen searched out and found every way possible to lose hockey gam(;ls and end the winter having fallen just short of the playoffs. Led by the likes of Egan and Knight, the hockey team has brought back the excitement to Achilles that had been missing for much too long. The future looks bright for the athletes clad in garnet and gray. The Union sports renaissance has been a true delight to cover. The memories of the fabulous four years will live on with this reoorter forever. Wherever the world of sports may take this kid from Cleveland, one thing is for certain, there will always be a special place in his heart for the Dutchmen of Union College. Think Before You Act Don 1 t Drink & Drive Photographers Needed Submit name and phone number to Box 2577 Support Union Sports

Page16 CONCORDIENSIS. MorciJ 7, 1985 SPORTS Dutchmen Advance to ECAC Semis By AL WHn;'E Sports Staff \The shot came from the right point, hit Doogie's (goalie Wayne McDougal) shoulder and went behind him. Fortunately, I was right there, and was able to get the thing out of there before it reached the net.\ And with that play, defenseman Dave Weiss prevented Union from another overtin)e finish (0-3-1 this year in overtime games), and helped Union advance to the semi-finals of the ECAC Western Division playoffs with a 3-2 win over Elmira. Weiss' game-saving .effort occurred with 20 seconds left in the third period, and put the fans at Achilles Rink on their feet. This play-off victory came just days after a disappointing, unexpected loss to Middlebury, the final regular season game of . the year. But instead of letting that loss adversely them, it seemed to charge up the Dut- chmen that much more for the play-offs. \Nothing you can say about a game like that,\ lamented coach Charlie Morrison. \The results were right there in black and white. You can't look back at a game like that, so we just worked hard to prepare for Elmira. We had to take a business-as-usual attitude, and that's just what we did.\ shot was stopped, Jamie Knight scored on the rebound, 23 seconds into the period. Thirty secondS later, Gill Egan had the puck in front of the Elmira net, and after get- ting mugged by three Eagles, pushed the puck between Burtch's pads-with one Elmira player on top of him, who shot the puck in the prone position on the ice. Since it was the 8oth goal of his career, Gil decided to put a little flair into it. Elmira used great second effort to score their second goal, but after that, the game belonged to the defenses, the goalies, and... the referees. Union's defense has played excellently all season, and it is the same six who performed for the Dutclunen last year. As the sole-senior member T. J. Ryan put it, \These two years working with each other has gotten us together. (Assistant coach Mark) Morris has helped us a great deal, with his little secrets he has gotten from his yeaFs in the pro's. Our goal is to \We let ourselves down that game,\ remarked right-wing Curt Cole. \I have to admit we were looking ahead to the play- en offs, and we ran into a tough ~ goaltender. But it sure did teach a.. us a lesson, and it got us that ::: much more determined to win 8 en Saturday.\ >- But it looked like fate was not .o .g calls. Although he wasn't available for comment, Elmira's coach showed everyone how he felt im- m~diately after the game by gomg over to the referee and giving him a piece of his mind, as well as apiece of his fist. His anger was most likely for the penalty called on Elmira with just over two minutes left in the game. \Although he went a little too far, he had the right to complain,\ said defenseman John Mackenzie. \The refs should let the teams decide the game, not penalties. This is the play-offs.\ \They did call a lot of penalties,\ recalled Gill Egan. \But that doesn't excuse that coach's performance after the game. A letter to the ECAC would have been more ef- fective, if not a little more subtle.\ Egan, Union's last player on the ice, showed his emotion another way, as he left the ice area with his arms waving, and shouting and jumping for joy. \I guess you on the Dutchmen's side when o Elmira sxored the game's first ~ goal which was produced mainly by a lucky boWlce of the puck. Union had control of the puck in the Eagles' zone. The puck was passed to defenseman Gavin Morton, but as he wound Senior Defenseman T.J. Ryan (6) upends Plattsburgh forward as the Dutchmen bench looks on. Union defeated Plattsburgh 3-2. up for a slapshot, the puck took a strange bounce away from his stick. Elmira broke out with a two on one break, and the Eagles' Rick Seeley put a fine move on McDougall and put the puck past him. \My heart dropped to my feet on that one,'' recalled Morrison. Union bounced back 56 seconds later. While Elmira keyed on Union's first two lines, they forgot about the other two. Tom Brandell took advantage of Elmira's lapse, and took a pass from Scotty Cyr and beat Division Two's top goalie, Bill Burtch. The score was 1-1 after the first period. In the second period, Union wasted no time to get their second goal. Dave Appleby rushed up the ice, and after his keep the puck away from Wayne, and the less rubber he has to see, the better off we are.\ Both goalies were also out- standing in the game, and are ranked one and two in the division. McDougall only had to handle \the rubber\ 21 times, and was up to the task. Burtch, on the other hand, saw 34 pucks fly his way. \He played a great game,\ lauded Jamie Knight. \We had plenty of chances, and I was pretty exasperated. At one point, in the third period, I was in front of the net after a scramble, and I said to Burtch, 'Hey, how about letting one in for a change?' As it turned out, he didn't oblige, did he?\ The referees did not perform· very well, and according to both teams, made some very questionable calls and non- could say I was a ·little pumped after the game. We all made a great effort, and it was a tough game. They really played well, but we just stuck to our game plan and it worked. We're going all the way, there's no doubt about it.\ en en Ql .... a. ~ u en >- .0 0 - 0 .t: o_ Sophomores Ken Levine (ll) and Rich Bartosch (23) wait for rebound in gamevs. Middlebury. Union defeated Middlebury 80-64. Hoopsters Advance By MARK VANBUREN Last Wednesday, the Union ·basketball team concluded· its regular season schedule with an impressive victory over Mid- dlebury College, 80-64. Union got off to a good start and held· an advantage for the first 4% minutes of the contest. However, Middlebury came back to assume a 13-10 lead with 13:55 to play in the opening period. The Dutchmen responded during the next 31/2 minutes by outscoring the Panthers 12-0, en route to building a nine-point lead, 22-13. Middlebury hung tough, \dug in\ on defense, and eventually tied the score 24-24 at the 6:27 mark when Meatchie Russell converted two free throws. With just 2:54 remaining before halftime, the Dutchmen were looking at a 31-28 score favoring their opponents. At this point Union seized control of the game by rattling off a 12-2 spurt. Led by seniors Ken D'Orazio and Kevin Bartlett, each of whom scored four points in this Dutchmen surge, Union went into the lockerroom en- joying a 40-33 lead. Middlebury scored quickly to begin the second period, to cut the deficit to five points, 40-35, but this is as close as they would get for the remainder of the game. The two teams traded baskets for the ensuing six minutes, until Rob Parento's rebound basket off a missed shot gave Union a 58-47 advantage with 12:03 left to play. This was the first time in the contest that either club enjoyed a double-figure margin. From here, the Dutchmen increased the difference to 19 points, 67-48, as Rob Parento canned a pair of foul shots with just over 10 minutes showing on the clock. The Union lead stayed at 19 for the next two minutes, but Middlebury proceeded to trim the margin to 73-60 with only 2:48 to play. This deficit, however, was just too much for the Panthers to overcome, as Union recorded its 15th win of the season. Kevin Bartlett led the hot · shooting Dutchmen with 20 points and 8 rebounds. Neil Winawer, Tom Beck and Ken D'Orazio added 12,11 and 10 points respectively. As a team, Union shot an amazing 55 percent while limiting Middlebury to just 43 percent. On Saturday, the Dutchmen traveled to Binghamton for the first round of the ECAC playoffs. Three months ago to the date, Union had been em- barrassed at this site by the same team, 83-63. It had been Union's worst defeat of the season and the Butchmen were out to even the score. The Dutchemn got off to early leads of 8-4 and 20-12, forcing Binghamton to call two timeouts within the first 11 miputes of the game. Kevin Bartlett and Ken D'Orazio led Union's opening streak, as they combined for 17 of the 20 points. Binghamton came right backnafter their second timeout, and cut the margin to 20-18, on three quick hoops. Ken D'Orazio hit three straight baskets for the Dutchmen giving them a 26-'22 lead with 5: 48 remaining in the opening half. The Colonials stayed close, and with 2:45, Derek Harrison hit a short jumper to knot the score at 28. Each team proceeded to connect on art other basket before intermission, as they left the floor tied 30..30. Union was paced by Ken D'Orazio who, despite sitting out for five minutes because of foul trouble, scored 16 points and grabbed 8 rebounds. Kevin Bartlett added 9 points. The Dutchmen were outscored from the fie1d in this half, but had a 6- 2 advantage from the foul line. Three minutes into the second half, Union enjoyed a 38-32 advantage, forcing Bif!ghamton to call another timeout. The Colonials inched closer as Mo Salama connected on a jumper, cutting the Union lead to 44-40 with 13: 10 to go in the game. Union scored 11 of the next 19 points in opening up a 55-48 advantage. This lead proved to be not enough as Binghamton pulled within four, 59-55, with 5lf2 minutes showing on the Continued on page 15 Trackmen Finish 4th In Union Invy Dutchmen skiers finish season at Mt. Tussey Ski Resort. By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff The extension of the indoor track season for two of Union's track athletes were on the line this past Saturday afternoon as the Union men tracksters placed fourth out of fifteen teams in the Union Men's Invitational. The Dutchmen collected 44 points behind St. Laurence's 110, RPI's 106, and Stony Brook's 51¥.!. In the pole vault, Wayne Lacy needed a vault of 14'4\ one inch above his best, to qualify for the nationals. At 14'4\ he just barely missed on his third jump but won the event at 14'0\. Lacy may still have a shot at the nationals being held at Bates College in Lewiston, Maine due to the lowering of the qualifying standard. Mike Reed stepped to the line at the start of the 1500 meter race needing a clocking of 4:05 · to qualify for the State Meet. Reed ran a steady race all the way through coming from behind to win his heat in 4:04. The Dutchmen collected a second first place finish from the two mile relay t~am as the quartet of Chris O'Donnell, Winston Britton, Jeff Barker and Rob Mohlar cruised to a 8:04.4 win, nearly ten seconds ahead of second place. Britton took another first in the 400 meter race by setting a meet record with a time of 50.4. He edged second place by a mere .5 seconds. Race walker Jim Mann took the 3000 meter race walk with a winning time of 12:34.9.

